The Day After
IACCENT: Mules for pets Partly sunny Thursday with a high around 70. Clear and very cool Thursday night with the low near 40. Sunny
IVIEWPOINT: Constitutional injustices 

and cool Friday. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 23 

the independent newspaper 'serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

'Monk' Malloy inaugurated 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI from 133 colleges and univer­News Editor sities also attended the cere­mony. 
Saying Notre Dame has aim­In his inaugural address, portant mission to play as a Malloy said Notre Dame's Catholic university, Father Ed­greatest strength is its "dis­ward Malloy was inaugurated tinctiveness as a religious in­the 16th president of the Uni­stitution." versity Wednesday at the Joyce Quoting the statutes of the ACC. University, Malloy said "the 
"Notre Dame has a mission essential character of the Uni­of service to society and the versity as a Catholic institution Church, said Malloy, the first of higher learning shall at all Notre Dame president to be times be maintained." honored with a formal in­"I fully support that man­auguration. date," he said. 
"I am deeply honored to be "Notre Dame will continue (Notre Dame's) president," he self -consciously and proudly said. proclaiming itself to be a Cath­
"Father Malloy, on behalf of olic university," he said. the trustees of the University I At the same time, Malloy commend to you the presiden­said, Notre Dame will remain tial leadership of the Univer­academically free. "Notre sity of Notre Dame and offi­Dame is an open forum where cially invest you as its 16th diverse viewpoints can be president," said Chairman of freely and critically dis­the Notre Dame Board of Trus­cussed," he said. tees Donald Keough. "To me, there is nothing in­
"We welcome you to the herently incompatable be­rights and responsibilities of tween academic excellence this office," said Keough, and the life of faithful disciples­placing the medal around Mal­hip." loy's neck. Malloy said Notre Dame will 
About 5,000 administrators, continue to emphasize

University President Father Edward Malloy, the 
trustees, faculty, and students academics over athletics. "We

alxteenth prealdent of Notre Dame, was In­
gathered in the JACC for the

augurated Wednesday at the Academic Convoca­
ceremony. Representatives see MALLOY, page 5 
•

Thousands attend historic inauguration ceremon1es 
By REGIS COCCIA procession of 800 faculty, Uni­awe-inspiring. I was very glad on weaknesses as well as of the country to be with Monk versity trustees and to be a part of it." strengths. on this special day," he said.
Assistant News Editor 
distinguished guests moved Sophomore Vienna Colucci "I was impressed with the Alumni representatives from Thousands of students, fac­into the JACC for Malloy's for­said she was taken in by Mal­way he stressed the situation California, Colorado, Ken­ulty, alumni and 175 college mal installation as the six­loy's inaugural address. "He with minorities and how he em­tucky, Michigan and Min­presidents and academic offi­teenth president of Notre gave a really interesting ad­phasized that we have to grow nesota were present for the in­cers attended the historic Dame. Music was provided by dress and I was impressed by together as a university and to auguration, said Charles inauguration ceremony of Uni­the University Concert Band. the number of universities that reach out to those in need Lennon, executive director of 
versity President Father Ed­attended. It was a beautiful beyond our community," said the Alumni Association. 
ward Malloy, said Richard Many who attended were im­ceremony, especially the Nanni, a close friend of the new "I'd say there were approxi­Conklin, director of Public pressed by the historic event, music," she said. president. mately 350 (alumni)," Lennon Relations and Information. the first time the University "I'm real excited about the said. "About 20 trustees are 
A morning Mass in the Joyce has inaugurated one of its Several graduate students whole presidency and I think alumni and there's no way of ACC began Wednesday's in­presidents. also attended the convocation. he's a super person," Nanni knowing how many alumni auguration events. Following a "I thought it was a beautiful Lou Nanni, a 1984 graduate and said. "Several alumni and from South Bend were there." 
luncheon on the Hesburgh Li­ceremony," said sophomore former Holy Cross Associate, grads from (the early 1980s) 
see REACTION, page 3

brary mall, an academic .Maura Hogan. "It was really noted Malloy's speech touched came back from different parts 
Fundraising begins 


Biden withdraws from race 
for Literary Festival 

Associated Press the second candidate to be Supreme Court nomination of forced from the race by ques­Robert Bork. 
By COURTNEY sponsored the event in pre­WASHINGTON -Sen. Joseph tions of character and in­"And although it's awfully 
JAMIESON vious years, said Chairman Biden ended his quest for the tegrity. .clear to me what choice I have 
Mike Evces. "We are 1988 Democratic presidential "I made some mistakes," to make, I have to tell you 
News Staff 

working with an historically nomination "with incredible Biden, his wife at his side, told honestly I do it with incredible 
The planning committee low budget this year," said reluctance" on Wednesday, a room crowded with reluctance and it makes me 
for the twentieth annual Evces, adding the commit­saying the "exaggerated reporters. "Now the exagger­angry. I'm angry with myself 
Sophomore Literary Fes­tee plans to raise $3000 to shadow" of mistakes made it ated shadow of those mistakes for having been put in the po­
tival is busy fundraising, help finance stipends for the impossible to continue his can­has begun to obscure the es­sition -put myself in the posi­
scheduling writers, and writers and for extra adver­didacy. sence of my candidacy and the tion -of having to make this 
coordinating events for Feb. tising for the festival. Biden withdrew from the essence of Joe Biden." choice," he said. 
21-28, the week of the fes­campaign after a week in "And I am no less frustrated 
tival. "The Sophomore Literary which his campaign was Biden said he had to choose at the environment of presiden­
The fundraising drive Festival is a crucial part of rocked by admissions of between continuing his tial politics that makes it so dif­
began this week with a the University's cultural and plagiarism and false claims presidential campaign and ficult to let the American 
letter-writing campaign to intellectual life," said Evces about his academic record. chairing the Senate Judiciary people measure the whole Joe 
solicit funds from area busi­The Delaware Democrat is Committee hearings on the Biden." 
nesses which have see FESTIVAL, page 4 


~-~--~-------------~­
~r---pa-ge2----­
Thursday, September 24, 1987
The Observer 

t f 



In Brief 
Safer sex AIDS is the topic of a health board plan released Wednesday by the the Indiana State Board of Health. It states that the board would like to see proof that 60 percent of gay or bisexual men and the same percentage of prostitutes practice safer sex to avoid AIDS. The plan also includes the health department's goals in a variety of other areas, including local health services, consumer protection, laboratory work and health promo­tion. The plan is the first of its kind drawn up by the board of health. -Associated Press 
The Timothy Rockne case progresses with the indictment of a suburban Moraine man in connection with the Aug. 29 shooting death of Timothy Rockne, the grandson of famed Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne. Mike Hogue, 26, who was indicted on a charge of involuntary manslaughter by a Montgomery County grand jury on Tuesday, could face a prison term ranging from five to 25 years if he is convicted. Hogue is to be arraigned on Oct. 6. -Associated Press 
Bob Fosse, director and choreographer, collapsed and died Wednesday at a performance of "Sweet Charity," according to the publicist for the show. He was 60. Fosse was director of the show, which was opening at Washing­ton's National Theater. The director collapsed either just before or during the show, said publicist Ben Morse in New York. Morse said he was taken to George Washington University Hospital, where he died. -Associated Press 
Purdue University researchers will design drugs to stop the AIDS virus from developing as part of a national program to create new centers for AIDS research, the school announced Wednesday. Dr. Otis Bowen, the U.S. secretary for Health and Human Services, announced $10 million in cooperative agreements Wednesday to support 11 new centers. Called National Cooperative Drug Dis­covery Groups, they are funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. According to the Na­tional Institutes of Health, more than 42,000 persons in the United States have been diagnosed with acquired immune deficiency syndrome since 1981,_ and nearly 60 percent of them have died. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Submissions for the Juggler, Notre Dame's fine arts and literary magazine, are being accepted for its Fall 1987 issue. Visual and literary artwork should be brought to the English office, 356 O'Shaughnessy, by October 7. No literary submissions will be returned. -The Observer A Jerusalem Foreign Study Program meeting for all interested students will be held this afternoon at 4:30p.m. in room 419 of the Administration building. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor . . . . . . . . .. . . .. ... .. .. .. . Kathy Huston Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Brian Broderick Delign Auistant ..................... Pete LaFleur ...................................... DeeDee Wroblewski Typesetters ................................... Mike Buc Accent Copy Editor .................... Beth Healy ...................................................Paul Babka Accent Layout ...................... Ann Biddlecom News Editor................... Ann Marie Durning Typists ...................................... Lynn Ewing Copy Editor ............................. Karen Webb ND Day Editor ...................... Kathy McKee ............................................. Kendra Morrill SMC Day Editor ..................... Karin Radar Sports Copy Editor ............... Mike Rietbrock Photographer ........................ Trey Reymond .................................................... Pete Skiko TM o..ner (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throush Friday Cllc:ept duriq exam &Dd vacation periods. TM 0'-ner is publilhed by the students of the  




Jessica Hahn was 'had' by more than two men 
It's hard to feel sorry for Jessica Hahn these days. 
A few months ago, I could believe she was just a naive church secretary who was forced into a bad situation. And I felt sorry for her. 
"I was done in," Hahn is quoted in the No­vember issue of Playboy. "I was hurt." 
My opinion of the much publicized "sexual tryst" hasn't changed. I still believe Hahn was forced to have sex with PTL founder Jim Bakker and evangelist John Fletcher in 1980. And I'm sure it was a terrible experience for her. 
But I no longer feel she is a person deserving of sympathy. No, Hahn is an opportunist. 
Mter the sexual tryst, Hahn struck a deal with Bakker, agreeing not to reveal the incident in exchange for $265,000. Sounds a lot like black­mail. Or prostitution. 
But perhaps that can be excused. Mter all, she was only 21 years old at the time. She was probably hurt and confused. 
But what does she do when the sexual encounter becomes public several years later? She makes another deal to keep quiet. 
Taking a page from "The Donna Rice Story," Hahn sold her story to Playboy for an undis­closed sum reported to be about $1 million. She would reveal all the sordid details of her "sexual tryst" to Playboy readers -exclusive­ly. She would give no other press interviews. 
"The public does not know that I was used and manipulated and hurt --physically and emotionally," Hahn told Playboy. "That was never brought out. And I'm doing it now, in a way I know would never get reported in a family newspaper." 
There is another thing a "family newspaper" doesn't publish, but Playboy does. Nude photos. 
Of course, most Playboy interviewees don't shed their clothes to "illustrate" their story. Jimmy Carter, for example, did not appear nude to show that he had felt lust in his heart. 
But that didn't stop Hahn. As a result, Playboy readers are treated to a former church secretary topless. 
So why did she pose for the pictures? "When you see the story, you'll understand why," Hahn told reporters. "The pictures are as important as the story." 
For the average Playboy reader, the pictures are probably more important. Nonetheless, Hahn does get to tell her story. 
Wish yQur friends a Happy Birthday thrQugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fQr details. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Mark Pankowski 
Managing Editor 

"I've been treated as less than human, as a thing, as a pawn," Hahn tells Playboy. "And just because I don't have a Bible or a microp­hone --just because I don't draw millions of people on TV 8 doesn't mean I'm not human. 
"People use words like adultery and tryst and hush money," she said. "You know, two men had me in one day. I hated every second of it and it has ruined my life." 
Unfortunately, by posing semi-nude and sell­ing her story, Hahn has now been "had" by more than just two men. 
The former church secretary has been "had" by Playboy. 
Once again, Hahn has been "treated as less than human." She's been treated "as a thing, as a pawn." And she's been "done in" and "manipulated" again. 
All for money. Come to think of it, perhaps it's not so difficult to feel sorry for Jessica Hahn these days. 
SObering


Advice .· ~ 

can~

alife /~, 
,A.·
' ...
~ 

Somewhere... Beyond The Sea There Is A Maryland ~ Crab Feast { ~~\ Hot Steamed Blue Crabs --:/ Steamed Spiced Shrimp Spicy Fish Fry 





CRAB HOUSE 
49129 Red Arrow Highway Union , Michigan Open Every Day: 5:00 PM -2:00 AM 
Phone (616) 469-0200 
University of Notre Dame &Dd Saint Mary's CoUese. Subsaiptions may be purchu­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writi111 TM 0'-"er, P.O. Boll Q, Notre Dame, llllliaDa 465". 
TM ~il a member of TM ~led r.-. All reproduction rishta are reserved. 



Thursday, September 24, 1987 
The Observer 

:!oo..._ 
~~·,­
.. 
drtrtctrl 
--......Ail.-1~-...· ·--------..;::;~=--------­
The ObserveVfrey Reymond

Touchdown Monk 
University President Father Edward Malloy Deacon Wilson Mlscamble, to the left of Malloy, celebrates Mass Wednesday morning In the concelebrated the Mass. Joyce ACC, beginning the day's Inaugural events. 

Burger: Bork as extremist as I 
Associated Press extremist" and deserves con­
firmation. 

WASHINGTON Retired Chief Justice Warren Burger, Burger, in an extraordinary stirred by what he called un­appearance for a sitting or precedented disinformation, former member of the high declared on Wednesday that court, told the Senate Judiciary Supreme Court nominee Committee, "If Judge Bork is Robert Bork is not "an ex­not in the mainstream then nei­tremist any more than I'm an ther am I. It would astonish me 
our future." Biden, who opposes the
1m1 

OFFICI a 
nomination, said of the fight0fv'ruS . over Bork, "I intend to be 
MN5TRY 
deeply involved in that battle. 

--· I intend to attempt to bring it
INITIATION 
to victory."

in the CATHOilC CHURCH At the hearings, Burger reiterated his previous en­dorsement of Bork as among
Information Sessions September 27 
the best qualified court · ceremony by a neighbor, one 

nominees in the past 50 years.7 P.M. Librar~ 
Baptism: For unbaptised persons wanting O""~~..r..r..r..r..;C~CFQI'"...;C~CR.;cE SIOOCHoac.
1000 M=-'"..A)'.ECV"..;CICN=c"
~ 
to become n member of the Catholic Cbun:h. 

DANCJNG "-.
Full Commu.nio.u; For baptised persons wanting Full Communion in the 

D .J . "' ~ 
Catholic b"adition. 


REFRESHMENTS
SP-Qnsors; For baptised Catholics willing to journey with persons who 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1987 
are becoming members of the 


9 00 p.m. · 1:00 a.m.
Catholic Church. 

ALUMNI 1 SENIOR 
a_P.M. Library_!.runge 

CLUB
Coofll1lUltion: For baptised Catholics wanting to celebrate the 1 00 I PERSON 
•
sacrament of Confirmation. 


AT THE DOOR 
to think he's an extremist any more than I'm an extremist." 
In particular, he criticized paid newspaper advertise­ments that have suggested dire consequences for the nation if 
Bork's  nomination  is  con­ 
firmed.  
The  hearings,  despite  

Burger's appearance and a heated exchange later between committee chairman Joseph Biden, D-Del., and Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, were over­shadowed to some extent by Biden's midday announcement that he was withdrawing from the presidential race. 
Biden took time out from presiding over the hearings to tell a news conference he was quitting the campaign in the wake of damaging disclosures that he committed plagiarism and exaggerated his academic accomplishments. 
He said he couldn't expend the effort to get his candidacy back on track and still be closely involved in the hearings on Bork, whose appointment he said would "profoundly affect 
page 3 




U.S. tries to get mines, warn vessels 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Amer­ican warships swept a strip of the central Persian Gulf on Wednesday to recover mines believed planted by the Iranian ship that U.S. helicopters at­tacked this week. 
Commercial ships were warned away from the waters about 50 miles northeast of Bahrain and there were reports that some mines had been found. 
Five Iranians were reported killed and 26 were captured in the helicopter raid on the Iranian vessel Monday night. It was the first direct American attack on Iranians in the two months since the United States began protecting shipping in the gulf. 
Iran has vowed revenge for the American attack and the Iranian president said in New York that the two nations were moving toward war. 
Britain announced it was closing Iran's military procurement office in London and urged a United Nations arms embargo because of Iranian attacks on Persian Gulf shipping. 
President Ali Khamenei of Iran, in New York for a U.N. session, said the U.S. govern­ment had taken the road to war. "The people of the United States have a right to ask why is their government dragging them toward war," he said. 
Despite the increased tension and the possibility of more' floating mines, gulf-based ship­ping ·sources said a reflagged Kuwaiti gas carrier had begun a southbound voyage under 
U.S. escort. 
The reported departure of the 46,723-ton Gas Prince from 

Reaction 
continued from page 1 
Lennon said he was very im­pressed by the event and felt others will try to copy it. "I think it's just a hallmark pro­gram. Others will try to take off it but we really add a mark of class," he said. "Everything Notre Dame does is done first class." 
Alumni and students were not the only ones to witness Malloy's inauguration, however. 
Mary McDonough said seeing the inauguration on her first visit to Notre Dame was "like a dream." McDonough and her husband, of Scranton, Pa., were invited to attend the Kuwait would be the lOth con­voy since President Reagan's program of escorting Kuwaiti tankers went into effect in mid­July. 
But Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger, asked in a Washington television inter­view whether a convoy was moving, replied, "Not that I know of." 
In Washington, Pentagon of­ficials said threats of Iranian reprisal for the ship attack would not deter Weinberger from leaving as scheduled for a five-day trip to the region. 
He was to visit Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and U.S. warships. 
Iranian officials angti,ly promised retaliation for Mon­day's attack and U.S. em­bassies and military bases worldwide were warned to be alert for terrorist incidents. 
U.S. officials were discussing how to return the 26 Iranians taken off the ship Iran Ajr to their homeland. The Iranians, described as "detainees" by the Pentagon, were being held aboard navy ships in the gulf. 
In the search for mines, there was no official word here on how many were recovered. But shipping executives, speaking on condition they not be named, said the Navy had found eight of the moored, contact-type ex­plosives. 
Gulf civilian radio monitors said Navy warships were warn­ing all vessels to keep clear of the channel 50 miles northeast of Bahrain, an area where U.S. naval vessels often anchor when not on convoy duty. 
There was new fighting re­ported in the 7-year-old Iran­Iraq war. 
of Father Malloy's uncles. 
"This is one of the biggest 
moments of my life," 
McDonough said. "I really 
filled up with emotion -it isn't 
often you get to see something 
like this." 
After a guest reception on the Hesburgh Library mall, Mal­loy and University Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp attended a student picnic on the South Quad, where Malloy was presented with gifts from the student body. 
Student Body President Pat Cooke presented the new pres­ident with a large wooden hope chest bearing an inscribed plaque from the classes of 1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991. Cooke then gave Malloy a Notre Dame bas­ketball, a Notre Dame sweat­shirt and a photo album on be­half of the students. 
The graduate student body 
presented Malloy with an
engraved plaque, after which the Glee Club honored him with renditions of "Notre Dame, Our Mother" and the Fight Song. A fireworks display ac­companied the singing. 
"I can't thank you enough for the friendliness and generosity,'' Malloy told stu­dents, adding that he and Beau-champ want to be as accessible to them as possible.
Pat Cooke said he felt the overall student turnout for the inauguration events was "pretty good." "We were very pleased at the overall turnout," Cooke said. "I think everything went off 
~cCIOOOC'".-O""..r~~C>CIOCOCIOCICC_, real well." 
page 4 The Observer 

The Observeii'Trey Raymond 
Thousands of Notre Dame community members came out to share In the celebration. 
AIDS brothers enroll, welcomed 
Associated Press on his desk, said Clifford Ray, phone threats were made 
the boys' father. against the school and family. 
SARASOTA, Fla. -Three After school, acting Prin­They left Arcadia after an Aug. brothers whose exposure to cipal Lee Coose said: "We had 28 fire gutted their home. The AIDS made them pariahs in a super day, A-OK across the DeSoto County sheriff's depar­their rural hometown enrolled board." tment said Tuesday that the in a new school Wednesday fire was arson but said it was without incident and with a "Everything was positive," "definitely not related" to the hesitant welcome from school­said the boys' mother, Louise. community furor. mates and parents. "One of (the boys) said they 
Deputies patrolled the had to assign seats in the lunch­The Ray family moved to grounds at Gocio Elementary room because everyone Sarasota because school board School. And officials reported wanted to sit next to them." policy allows children exposed that 120 of the 615 pupils stayed The boys attended school in to AIDS to attend school if they home. Up to a dozen pupils Arcadia for a week under pose no threat to children and were withdrawn. The usual ab­federal court order. A boycott are undergoing medical treat­sentee rate is about 3 percent. that emptied classes, and tele-ment. 
hors as Kurt Vonegut, Jr., John 


ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAIN INC CORPS
Irving, John Barth and Tennes­see Williams. 
Thursday, September 24, 1987 

City prepared for visit from Dalai Lama 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-Fol­lowers of the Dalai Lama are coming from as far away as West Germany and Great Brit­ain to witness his dedication of a Buddhist shrine by a southern Indiana cornfield. 
"People are so excited. They're just very pleased that he's coming because he makes so few trips to the United States," Janet Olsen, program director of the Tibetan Cultural Center in Bloomington, said Wednesday. 
The Dalai Lama, exiled su­preme Buddhist leader of Tibet, is scheduled to dedicate a shrine on Friday to the more than 1 million countrymen said to have been killed by Chinese forces since the annexation of Tibet in 1949. 
A news conference and a din­ner honoring the local Tibet So­ciety's 20th anniversary are scheduled for Thursday. 
"They're coming from Cali­fornia, New York, Canada, London and West Germany," Olsen said of the high priest's supporters. 
A small number of souvenirs will be available for the faith­ful, she said. 
"There are posters that are available for sale of His Holi­ness, with the events (of his visit) listed on them," she said. "There will be books. There will be a table at the Tibetan Cultural Center with books written by His Holiness." 
Few Tibetans live in Bloomington. The religious leader was invited to Indiana by his older brother, Thubten Norbu, a retired professor of Uralic and Altaic studies at In­diana University and a founder of the Tibetan Cultural Center. 
The Dalai Lama, whose name at birth 53 years ago was Tenzin Gyatsho, is in the midst of a 17-day trip that included stops in Switzerland, West Ger­many and Washington. He is 
scheduled  to  travel  to  New  
·York  and  New  Jersey  after  
leaving Indiana.  

At a meeting of the Human Rights Caucus in Washington on Monday, he called for withdrawal of Chinese military forces from Tibet and outlined a five-part plan for peace be­tween the countries. 
The Dalai Lama, who lives in self-exile in Dharmsala, In­dia, is regarded as an impor­tant religious figure by the U.S. government, which does not recognize his claim as leader of the Tibetan government. 
China invaded Tibet in 1949 and annexed it over the next several years, attempting to transform a feudal society ruled by the dalai lama priest­kings since the 15th century into a socialist, secular society. A revolt that started in 1956 eventually was crushed by mil­itary force, and the Dalai Lama fled in 1959. 



UNCLE'S 
4609 Grape Road 
Thursday Night: 
blank generation
starting at 9:30 p.m. 

(BRING IN THIS AD) 
But the day had encouraging moments for the Rays -10­year-old Ricky, Robert, 9, and Randy, 8. 
Ricky found welcome cards 




Festival 
continued from page 1 
who urged students to attend. 
The committee has received acceptances from two writers, Don Hendrie Jr., a novelist and author of "Blouht's Anvie," and poet John Engels, a Notre Dame graduate. Engels hopes to stay the entire week and visit classes in addition to reading his work at the festival, said Evces. Joseph Skvorecky, a contemporary Czechos­lovakian novelist, has also been invited. "(Skvorecky) has ex­pressed extreme interest in coming, but he is very busy right now," said Evces. 
A total of seven or eight writ­ers are expected to attend the event. 
Plans for the week of the fes­tival are not finalized yet, but Evces said, "It should be a pretty exciting event. The kinds of writers we have are going to be fun to listen to and meet. I highly recommend it to everyone." He added, "We are going to try to make the writers as accessible to the students as possible." 
The festival began in 1967 when a sophomore invited several writers to give a collo­quiom on William Faulkner. It has since become an annual event. 
Past participants in the fes­tival include such noted aut­


BE A HERO AND MAKE SOME MONEY! 
DONATE PLASMA YOU CAN HELP SAVE LIVES AND YOU'LL RECEIVE $12.00 AS A COME TO AMERICAN PLASMA 
HOURS: 
TUE. FRI. 
8-5:30 8-4:30 WED. SAT. 10-6:30 9-4:30 
LINCOLNWAY SOUTH 



---------~---------------------------------­
Thursday, September 24, 1987 
Work continues on archaeological dig 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
Prof. Paolo Visona is con­tinuing his work on the formal report about his archaeological dig in Italy. 
He led a group of thirty, in­cluding 10 Notre Dame stu­dents, on a six-week excavation in the southern part of the country. 
The students were volunteers and had no previous experience in archaeology. 
Visona dated the site to at least 100 B.C., based on the age of pottery found at the site. 
The excavation uncovered a large complex with a regular plan. "It is a very urban settle­ment, not just a large farm," Visona said. 
The workers also uncovered a three-foot wide pebble street, still intact, and several cobble streets running at right angles to each other. At least seven large rooms were uncovered on the southern side of the com­plex. 
Tony Eason, a Notre Dame junior, made the most impor­tant discovery of the expedi­tion, uncovering two "architec­tural terra-cottas," placques which decorate the upper edges 
stitutional in the original. 
But it would abandon the 
original timetable for a



Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How do I know if I have d vocation to the priesthood? 
What is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 

UNIVBRSITY OF NOT!m DAMB FO!m/ON STUDY 
PROGRAM IN



JERUSALEM 
INFORMATION MEETING with 
Professor Landrum Bolling Director of the Ecumenical Institute at Tantur. 
THURSDAY, §~~1\@ER 24, 1987 ROOM 419 ADMiM~f~TION BUILDING 

ALL ARE WELCOME! 
of the walls of a "building of substance," Visona said. 
The group also' found 200 coins, mostly bronze. Most of the coins were Roman, sug­gesting that the Romans may have had a garrison at the site. 
Some of the students ob­tained college credit for their work. "This was planned as a special class," Visona said. "Some elected to do it for cred­it, some didn't." 
Visona said he'd like to con­tinue the project with only Notre Dame students. He said he would need 15 Notre Dame students to make it completely a Notre Dame project. 
Much of Visona's time this school year will be occupied with putting together the ex­cavation report, Visona said. The report is a very general ar­ticle explaining what was done during the last excavation season. This has to be submit­ted to the Italian government in order to obtain permission to continue excavations for an­other season. 
The excavations will most likely take three seasons, Visona said. He will also spend much of his time putting to­gether funding for next sum­mer's dig. 
For personal, confidential 
Malloy

interview with no obligation, 
continued from page 1

please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
will attempt to excel in every form of intercollegiate ath­

46556 
letics, but not at the price of For appointment, call between 
distorting our primary role as educators and moral guides,"

8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6385 · 
he said. 

Malloy said he also plans to continue Notre Dame's com­mitment to undergraduate and graduate work. 
While Notre Dame has made great strides in research in the last two decades, Malloy said, the University must strike a proper balance between teach­ing and research. 
"It is not acceptable at Notre Dame to engage in (teaching) in a perfunctory or indifferent 

page 5 
The ObserveV!'rey Raymond 
of events. Left to right are Malloy; Donald Keough, 
chairman of the Board of Trustees; and Father 
Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus. 
Senate approves Gramm-Rudman bill 
Three amlgos 
University President Father Edward Malloy was formally Inaugurated at the Academic Convoca­tion Wednesday In the Joyce ACC after two days 
Associated Press and sent to President Reagan, 
whose support for Gramm­

WASHINGTON-The Senate Rudman has wavered recently. voted Wednesday to restore the Administration officials said Gramm-Rudman budget­no decision had been made on balancing law, renewing the whether Reagan should veto threat of across-the-board the bill. spending cuts unless Congress The revised plan, approved and the president reach a com­by the House on Tuesday, promise on reducing the defi­would bring back the law's cit. threat of automatic spending 
The bill was passed 64 to 34 cuts, redrafting a provision the 
Supreme Court found uncon­balanced budget by fiscal 1991. That goal would take until fis­cal1993, with most of the deficit reduction put off until after the 1988 election. 

Like the original Gramm­Rudman passed two years ago, the plan was an amendment to a bill raising the ceiling on the national debt. The December 1985 vote first put the limit above $2 trillion. The new bill would allow $2.8 trillion in Treasury borrowing, enough to last until May 1989. 
fashion," he said. "Our stu­
dents deserve a total commit­
ment of their mentors to pro­
viding a lively and stimulating 
educational environment." 

"We must enthusiastically embrace our potential as a major research institution and we must define those areas of scholarly pursuit where we at Notre Dame are especially well suited to make a lasting contri­bution," he said. 
"As a university, teaching and research both count at Notre Dame." 
Malloy said Notre Dame is a special place. "The mystique of Notre Dame, its pervasive spirit of togetherness, is an in­tangible reality.". 
The University, however, has its problems, he said. "At times, we neglect the needful in our midst, we stereotype minorities, and we treat with disdain those flauntingly dif­ferent," he said. "We regret­fully allow gender or race or status and rank to fracture our commonality and drive us apart. 
"In recognition of this incon­sistancy and harm, we ever need to acknowledge our fail­ure and move to reform our common life," he said. 
Malloy also listed certain "institutional needs and priorities for the University." 
"For a variety of reasons, there is a real need for addi­tional housing on campus for both undergraduate and graduate students," he said. 
"We are also working hard to recruit female faculty mem­bers in all disciplines and to promote women to positions of administrative responsibil­ity," he said. 
Malloy also noted two other goals that he said Notre Dame must reach. "The major upgrading of our computer facilities and increased sup­port for University Libraries" are essential goals, he said. 


~--------...._.__________ ~~-----~-----­
~ ------------~------------­
Thursday, September 24, 1987
page 6 
Funds OK'd for Contras; but future aid doubtful 
Associated Press ress the pledge by Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega to WASHINGTON-The House begin a partial, unilateral on Wednesday approved $3.5 cease-fire, the reopening of the 
million in new "humanitarian" opposition newspaper La aid to the Nicaraguan Contras, Prensa, the resumption of and House Speaker Jim Wright broadcasts by a Roman 
c... 

-Y said he expects itto be the last Catholic-operated radio station ...... 
U.S. aid ever sent to the rebels. and the appointment of a recon­The money was part of a ciliation commission led by 
stopgap spending bill to keep Cardinal Miguel Obando ythe government running after Bravo, a leading governmentthe current fiscal year ends critic. Sept. 30. The measure, ap­"All of these give me reason 
proved 270-138 after little to have hope," Wright told debate, was sent to the Senate, reporters.where it is not expected to The cease-fire announce­encounter major opposition. ment from Managua was 
The Contra aid money had drawing skeptical responses
-~ 
been worked out in a bipartisan from the administration,agreement between Wright, D­however, with Assistant Secre­
~.-~..,.n-'-·"'"' 

Sing, everyone, sing 
Texas, and House Republican tary of State Elliott Abrams
The University Chapel Choir had the pleasure of 
leader Robert Michel of Illi­calling it "a trick" to get the
providing the music for University President Fa­
nois. Contras to surrender. The $3.5 million represents In Miami, Aristides Sanchez, 
the proportion of this year's one of six members of the Con­


Nicaraguan opposition 
$100 million in Contra aid tra political directorate, said money that has been used for the rebels will not respect the food, medical supplies and uni­cease-fire. "We take it as a

skeptical about liberalization, 
forms and would be needed to simple publicity stunt on Pres­Associated Press Front, lauded the govern­peace plan in Nicaragua. sustain the rebels into Novem­ident Ortega's part," he said. ment's moves and said they The Central American peace ber in their battle against the But President Vinicio Cerezo 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua-The were in compliance with a plan was signed by the presi­leftist Sandinista government of Guatemala, while conceding leftist Sandinista government's Central American peace plan. dents of Nicaragua, El Sal­in Managua. that the Nicaraguan move decision to lift press restric­Barricada called on the vador, Honduras, Costa Rica The vote came a day after could be a ruse, said the United tions merely restores rights Reagan administration to and Guatemala. It calls for President Oscar Arias of Costa States should "maintain a 
that it should not have taken "take its hands out of Central cease-fires, amnesties, halting Rica traveled to Capitol Hill to more open position" toward away in the first place, opposi­America.'' foreign aid to rebels and appeal to lawmakers to "take any peace overtures. tion leaders said Wednesday. The Sandinista government freedom of the press, among a risk for peace" and eschew The leaders also said the gov­on Tuesday said it was working other points. further military aid to the Con­"If they (Nicaraguan ernment's announcement that on a plan to clear certain areas tras at least until Nov. 7, the leaders) are making a step in it would begin a unilateral of troops to begin a unilateral In Washington, the State De­target date for a regional favor of peace, we have to dis­
cease-fire was aimed cease-fire. partment accused Nicaragua's cease-fire. cuss this step," Cerezo said on primarily at ending U.S. aid to government of engaging in Asked whether he believed NBC-TV's "Today" show. the Contra rebels. A government statement mere "cosmetic gestures." the new money would be the Approval of the additional 
"They're releasing our said The National Reconcilia­last U.S. aid to flow to the aid came after a brief floor freedoms bit by bit after having tion Commission, headed by Spokeswoman Phyllis Oak­rebels, Wright said, "Yes, un­debate, in which Michel argued taken them away," said En­Cardinal Miguel Obando y ley said a recent statement by less some drastic change were that approving a stopgap bill rique Bolanos, head of the Bravo, archbishop of Interior Minister Tomas Borge to occur in the situation in whose only omission from last Private Enterprise Council, an Managua, and smaller local indicates that the Nicaraguan Central America. The evidence year's spending programs was 
indicates to me reason to be op­
opposition group. "That's not peace commissions could then media will be forbidden to pro­Contra aid would have "sent freedom." see if rebels in the areas would vide news about the two most timistic -still guardedly, but exactly the wrong signal at the 
Barricada, the official news­accept a cease-fire. important subjects facing less guardedly than before." wrong time." paper of the governing Sandi­The commission was formed Nicaragua -the peace process The Reagan administration Contra supporters contend nista National Liberation to oversee compliance with the and the economy. has signaled its intention to ask that the military pressure from 
for $270 million in new military the rebels on the Sandinistas
Consumer prices climbed in August aid for the Contras over 18 has been the primary force 
months if the peace plan fails. bringing Ortega to the peace Associated Press "big ticket" durable goods -commerce for economic af­Wright cited as signs of prog-table. items expected to last three fairs. 
WASHINGTON -Consumer years or longer-fell3.1 percent prices rose 0.5 percent in Au­in August, the first decline In another report, the Labor gust, their biggest increase in since January. Department said that • Use this coupon at • eight months, as still­Americans' average weekly rebounding energy costs and "Neither one of them looks earnings, after discounting for : COUNTY MARKET : higher housing expenses great. I think both setbacks are inflation, rose 0.9 percent in Au­swamped a tiny decline in temporary," said Robert gust, the biggest monthly in­• to redeem $2.00 off our : grocery prices, the govern­Ortner, under secretary of crease since October 1983. ment reported on Wednesday. 
The increase in the Labor De­partment's consumer price in­dex -equivalent to an annual rate ofinflation of 5.8 percent ­followed a modest 0.2 percent rise in July. 
Many economists suggested that the August jump was tem­porary and overstated the ac­tual inflation rate. Analysts generally held to their earlier predictions of inflation in the 4 to 4.5 percent range for the year. 
The Observeli"Trey Raymond ther Malloy's Inauguration ceremony Wednesday. 
The August increase, the sharpest since a 0.7 percent surge in December, was paced by further increases in energy costs, including a 3.1 percent climb in gasoline prices, up from a 1.1 percent rise the month before. 
Gasoline prices have in­creased 21.4 percent since Jan­uary, recovering from last year's steep drop in world oil prices. But analysts said that in recent weeks, oil prices have begun to decline, and that the worst of the price increases of the year appears to be over. 
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that orders to U.S. factories for 

Viewpoint
Thursday, September 24, 1987 page 7 
Modern Catholics question authority 
Recently, as part of the coverage sur­rounding the Pope's visit to the U.S., the Chicago Tribune ran a series of ar­ticles describing the state of the Cath­olic Church in America and the response from the "old guard" to the new liberalism. The most interesting column to me was an interview with a Chicago lay minister, who talked about her view towards the individual's role in the Church. "I learned that God did give us a brain", she said, and that "People are finally starting to think for themselves, although so many are still looking for someone to say 'It's all right'." Another lay minister said that 
Paul Stelter 
guest column 
American Catholics are finally perceiv­ing themselves as adults, adults who must begin to take personal responsi­bility for their religious lives. 
What this appears to be is not a con­centrated attempt to divide the Catholic Church, but the latest manifestation of an American distrust of authority that has been particularly strong since Viet­nam and Watergate. The dissent on cer­tain Church teachings has decreased. Before Vatican II, the Church was able to inspire conformity in Catholic America through both its disciplinarian parochial education and the overall sense of awe and respect the Pope, as an authority figure, projected. While the Pope's latest visit shows that the respect and power are still there, the controversy over it that was absent the previous visit shows that American Catholics are no longer as willing to take distant papal pronouncements without question. 
This skepticism toward Vatican moral teaching amongst American Cat­holics is not entirely unexpected. Since the 1960's, Americans as a whole have been rejecting the traditional morality that was passed from generation to gen­eration and have been letting their con­science be their guide. Imposed moral authority has been less of an influence on modern moral decisions whereas in­dividual though has been more of one. In an age where Catholic teaching is no longer dominated by fear and aut­horitarianism, enforcement of doctrine is becoming more and more difficult for the Vatican. 
Despite criticisms of the way the Church is run, the overall loyalty to the Church is as strong as ever. The ever­outspoken Rev. Andrew Greeley con­tends "The loyalty of American Cat­holics to their religious tradition, even in times of enormous crisis, is ex­tremely powerful." Also, the basic tenets of Catholicism and Christianity as a whole are still accepted. They still accept Christ as Lord and the New Testament as Gospel; they dispute the Pope and tradition only. The true core of the problem is the question of au­thority over the interpretation. The new liberal and individualist attitudes, therefore, appear to be over a question over the means than the end. 
The origin and resolution of this con­flict of moral authority is ultimately 
the individual conscience of American Catholics. Some American Catholics heard papal pronouncements that did not jibe with their moral intuition, and they finally had to decide which to fol­low. Some gave their moral authority back to the Pope and trusted his judge­ment, while others questioned the Pope's own authority. Undoubtedly there are many who are still in limbo, uncertain as to what and who is right. Certainly Jean-Paul Sartre would be pleased that people were finally reject­ing the traditionally unquestioned morality and thinking for themselves. Certainly this conflict is also not going to go away in the near future. Bearing in mind that "the unexamined life is not worth living", I think it is the ul­timate responsibility of all Catholics to make these choices of morality and au­thority for themselves, and to follow their own consciences. Only in this way can the Church find its true path. 
PauL Stelter is a junior government and internationaL relations major. 
Injustices remain with Constitution 
Much media attention recently has been focused on the two-hundredth an­niversary of the United States Consti­tution, and rightfullly so. As Americans, we celebrate our rights to free speech, press, religion, and assem­bly that are guaranteed to us in the First Amendment. We need only look at the unjust situations in other countries around the world to realize how fortunate we are. 
Mary Ann White 
guest column 
Take Chile, for example. The scene is becoming a familiar one. The mili­tary government of General Augusto Pinochet has repeatedly been accused of widespread human rights violations. While many of the industrial compan­ies' profits soar, thousands of Chileans struggle to put food on the table each night. Police frequently use violence to disperse political demonstrations making it difficult for opposition par­ties to organize effectively. Many people who have taken even an insig­nificant stance against the government have mysteriously disappeared. Even the television stations are government controlled. Pinochet is currently call­ing for a free election in March 1989; however, he may call for the election at any time within the next eighteen months. At this time, he is the only can­didate. If Pinochet wins, he will con­tinue to govern Chile until 1997. 
In the meantime, many Chileans are the victims of a smaller, but equally unjust violation related to the upcoming election. Citizens are being charged a "poll tax" when they register to vote. After the military coup in 1973, all of the voter registration lists were burned. 
Dooneabury 
Many Chileans, some of whom only earn $20 to $50 per month, cannot afford the $5 tax. Given the choice between buying bread for the table and paying the poll tax, many opt to spend their meager earnings on their survival needs rather than this abstract ''right,'' for obvious reasons. 
As Americans, we are protected by the Twenty-fourth Amendment to the Constitution from such poll taxes. On a larger scale, the First Amendment prevents violations like those that occur regularly in Chile from happening here. True, we do have a lot to be proud of in terms of the Constitution. However, we cannot let our pride stand in the way of re-examining the definition of justice in 1987 in the context of the Constitution. It is easy to stand outside and criticize the human rights violations in Chile and around the world. But, unfortunately, one need not look so far. Injustices oc­cur right here. Economic injustice forces thousands of people to stand in lines at soup kitchens across the United States each day. Minorities and women still suffer social injustice brought on by discrimination despite the advances of the Civil Rights Movement. And one must question the political "justice" of the Iran-Contra affair which caused Americans to reconsider our system of checks and balances. In cases like these, is it the Constitution that has 
failed or is it the interpretation of the document that has fallen short? 
To define justice in 1987 in terms of the Constitution is obviously a chal­lenge. Inherently, the Constitution is an effective document, however, many of the problems seem to lie in the inter­pretation. Is the definition of justice only in terms of the Constibltion suffi­cient? These are questions that are im­portant for all Americans, not just members of Congress and the Supreme Court, to consider. 
Creative responses are needed. To be "creative" means to suspend our "nor­mal" judgements. We must think of the benefits to society if women and minorities are granted equal rights, rather than the difficult path that leads to equality. Once people begin to exam­ine "justice" in a creative way, per­haps then the Constitution will succeed in bringing justice to all Americans. 
Mary Ann White is a Senior English major and is Co-ordinator of the Com­munications Group of St. Mary's Jus­tice Education Committee. 


Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"To listen well Is as powerful a means of communication and Influence as to talk well." 
John Marshall (1755-1835) 
Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday,, September 24, 1987 
P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame Community is being failed found six people in the seats we had educational system in the U.S.A., thenSpirit evident miserably. God forbid someone in true paid for. We turned to the usher in our aren't you putting down the whole dem­need of support or guidance turn to the aisle to help alleviate this problem and ocratic system in America? In essence, in football games Counseline, for they will not receive the found he couldn't hear us because he aren't you criticizing the American so­help they so desparately need. had his Walkman on. ciety as a whole? Well I, for one, will Jane Diane Ricciardi Another friend of mine was pushed not stand here as a few bad apples
Dear Editor: 
On September 22, 1987, Rev. Leonard Farley Hall flat on her back and into the box seats. degrade the American society and ruin 
J. Kuberski made some Michael A. Schadek The usher, always on the ball, told her "Swamp Dinners" for the rest of us.
comments 
about the Notre Dame Student Body. Grace Hall she could not be there because she did Beware, the wrath of Bill Hickey is at not have tickets for that section; When hand.
Kuberski, a former football manager 
she responded that she needed help to Mike Manningin the mid-sixties claimed that he has 
Alumni should get to the 50th row, he replied, "Good Keenan Hallwitnessed "a decline in the true Notre 
luck."

Dame Spirit;" which he attributes to "a lack of real fighting spirit on the respect privacy Because of the superb effectiveness 
of the ushers in the student section, the 

part of the Notre Dame students ... " He states that some ''really care little whe­Dear Editor: atmosphere of the game was com­Loss of Tex-Mex 
Ah -football season at Notre Dame. pletely ruined for my friends and me.
ther Notre Dame wins or loses on the gridiron." We disagree. Maybe some A time for pep rallies, tailgaters, and Trying to get to our seats became sur­ample punishment 
past students expressed apathy toward scores of alumni gathering to vival of the fittest, and that was absurd. Notre Dame Football, but today's stu­reminisce. The campus comes alive, I guess it all comes down to the question Dear Editor:"Why have the ushers at all?" They
dent body is a spirited one. and it's all part of that Notre Dame When will the hell end? Upon learning Rev. Kuberski's position could stem tradition. Only this year the reminisc­sure didn't seem to be earning their pay of the cancellation of special picnics, 
Saturday night. 

from his outside view of the situation. ing has gone too far. ethnic festivities and Circus Lunches, 
Are you aware that there are seniors Friday morning, as I returned from Mark Nemec an ugly blanket of gloom fell upon Dil­
who spent three days and nights in line, the shower, I was greeted by a group Alumni Hall lon. When will Mr. Hickey lift the reac­
clamoring for football tickets. There of alumni who had taken the liberty of tionary embargo of culinary delights? 
were even freshman who waited over­going into my room while I was not Students spoil We feel it is unfair that the many stu­
night in thrilled anticipation of their there, to see "the old room after all dents who were not on campus on that 
endzone seats. Did you know that much these years." Simply by having lived 'swamp dinners' Black Saturday should suffer the uri­
of the student body travelled to Mic­in my room a long time ago, the former deserved wrath of ND Food Services. 
higan to support the Irish in there first occupant felt at ease violating my Dear Editor: Sure, a punishment should be meted 
conquest of the year? Undoubtedly, privacy. After a rather brief but un­I scoff at thou--not those of you who out to the pagan sociopaths who en­
even more students will travel to equivocal statement of my displeasure, didn't participate in the sacreligious gaged in the food-throwing incident, but 
Purdue this weekend. they were insulted because I had kicked food fight last week, just those uned­is not the loss· of the Tex-Mex picnic 
Although you may be pardoned for them out. Was I supposed to invite them ucated, immature ones who did. How enough? The threat has been executed ignorance of facts such as the ones in, still in my towel, for coffee and con­dare you rejoice at the fact that we won and its devastating effect felt by the aforementioned, how could you not versation? It was a sour beginning to our first opening since 1984? How dare entire student population. The dis­notice the spirit of the students this what should have been an exciting and you rejoice at the fact that we beat Bo enfranchised upperclassmen can prob­weekend when you visited Notre Dame. fun football Friday. in a home opener for the first time in ably deal with the pain, but for the love Rev. Kuberski, did you not notice the I realize that this degree of zeal is his Michigan career (19 years)? How of God, think of the freshmen. These Notre Dame signs in the dormroom the exception, but I have an open re­dare you celebrate that we are unde­poor souls have never completed the windows? Did you not attend the pep­quest to alumni. I know that you are feated after facing the number nine marathon over to Stepan Field to sit rally literally jammed pack with stu­an invaluable part of Notre Dame's team in the nation? Repent you evil upon the fertile turf among the over­dents? Did you not see an entire student tradition and community, in fact the souls and realize that Bill Hickey will flowing dumpsters and the ever-so­body decked in gold and on their feet strong alum support played a large role make you suffer for such crimes talented musicianS'Elvis imper­throughout the whole game? Finally, in my decision to come here, but give against nature, Notre Dame, and most sonators. did you not wait after the game long me a chance to become part of them importantly, Food Services. I can un­Please, Mr. Hickey, if you possess enough to see the entire student section too. This is my time as a student, just derstand your overwhelming joy, but the milk of human kindness, please cheer their players and listen to their as you had yours -please respect that. can't this be displayed in a harmonious renege on this modern day Egyptian band? Were you really here this Often in my last three years here I have "Yahoo!" or "Yipee." plague. Restore the Circus Lunch to its weekend? felt I was a secondary citizen behind Please understand, especially you rightful position among Notre Dame 
Wake up and here our echoes! The you, because you return and repossess upperclassmen, it is time for such a traditions. Notre Dame spirit is alive and growing the campus in every facet. Please sup­childish, unchristian tradition to end, Michael J. Smoron in the hands of a concerned and capable port my efforts to become an alumna, and it's up to us to stop it. If you are Dean Kramer student body. Rockne would be proud. rather than making me feel like an in­going to throw food in a dining hall, Randy Sean McDonald Go Irish! truder. then aren't you actually scorning the Andre Theisen 
Frederic R. Scott Diane K. Lund whole higher educational system il1 Marty Burns Morrissey Hall Lyons Hall America? If you're putting down the Dillon Hall RichardS. Liptak Pangborn Hall 
Ushers ineffective Lack of counseling at opening gamegreatly disturbing Dear Editor: 
Could somebody please tell me what Dear Editor: the job of the ushers is? Or, better yet, We are greatly disturbed. During a why they were even on Notre Dame's
r 
recent call (September 14, 1987) to the payroll during the Michigan State 
Counseline--offered by the Counseling game? Let's take a look at some in­
and Psychological Services Center of cidences of their sterling performance 
the University of Notre Dame--we dis­during last Saturday night. 
covered no available assistance: No As my friend and I entered the 
one answered our call. Furthermore, stadium, we were greeted by a jam of 
the number provided in the Directory people entering our section. The ushers 
for additional information was useless were politely getting out of the way of 
for the Operator had no knowledge of the throng of students. 
who was supposed to be maintaining As we moved to the end of the ramp, the Counseline. Had our call been an we saw a girl fall and get stepped on. actual crisis, we would have been The usher shrugged his shoulders, denied perhaps our only means of as­laughed, and said there was nothing he sistance. could do. It's good to know he gets paid 
Something is wrong at the Coun­for that. seline, and until it is corrected, the As we approached our seats, we 
General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Msnager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1968 

Accent
Thursday, September 24, 1987 page 9 
Mules for pets? You bet your ... 
Associated Press 
B
ud Burnap Is a dyed-In-the­wool lover of mules and donkeys with a slightly offbeat sense of humor. 
The 68-year-old farmer said he had got "hooked" about 12 years ago. His 1.000-acre farm Is now home to at least 13 mules and donkeys, some of which he owns In partnership with his daughter-In-law, Carolyn. 
Carolyn has picked up her father-In-law's love for these long-eared critters and laughs right along with him when they talk about the number of horses, mules and donkeys they own. 
In addition to the mules and donkeys, they also own I 7 horses. The pair admits their spouses would like to see that total reduced to "about four." They can't bring themselves to sell any of them, they said. In addition to the herd they own outright Carolyn and Bud have an active business breeding mules and donkeys. 
Bud's sense of humor has prompted many friends to label him as a "character," a descrip­tion even Carolyn uses lovingly. 
A visitor gets a clue of what to expect on arrival at the Bur­nap farm. Several rough-hewn signs mark the driveway's en­trance Including one that reads "Ass Flats." The senior Burnap and wife, Dorothy, are the fourth generation to operate the clan's I,000-acre farm that runs along the Root River. The 
farm was first settled In 1855 and today Carolyn and Jim, Bud's son, share the operation. 
Bud's pride and joy Is Burnap 21, the second mammoth jack (male donkey) to make Its home In Minnesota. Bud points out the donkey Is a black jack. so, of course, It was logical in his mind to put 21 in Its name --the winning total in the game of blac~ack. 
Carolyn and Bud emphasize that all of the donkeys, mules and horses are working animals mals on the farm. In addition to 40 head of milk cows, they feed beef cattle. The beef cattle have the run of the hills that make up a big chunk of the farm, so the horses, mules and donkeys come in handy during roundups. 
The Minnesota State Donkey and Mule Association was founded In 1980 as a result of efforts by Bud and other owners In the Chatfield area and now has I I 0 members. 
The Minnesota association has held steady in membership for the last three years, accor­ding to Carolyn. Nationally, total members have gone from 2, 000 to 3, 000. 
For the uninitiated, a mule Is cross between a donkey and horse. Mules cannot be bred to 
)\ -~ j\
Jitt,' }J~~~
;·~ ~ \ C1 ,, I'~ 
each other. Donkeys are a he's been fairly successful with breed themselves and can be breeding and raising mules bred to each other or with and donkeys. It's a case of ad­horses. justing to their personalities, 
But it isn't easy to identify he said. which is which. Donkeys and He accepts the fact that the mules come in all colors and critters have a reputation for sizes. Carolyn suggested two being stubborn. But, he prefers ways to tell the difference. to look at that another way. Mules have more smooth, Instead, he said a mule or horse-like faces and heads than donkey can be relied on not to donkeys do. Also, donkeys will get itself in a situation that likely have the longest ears, might end up in trouble. she said. "They won't overeat or over­
Looking back. Bud figures drink. They have small, hard 
-·~·-·­

-
feet which seldom need shoes. They are easy to take care of," Bud said. 
Bud did recall one animal that caused him a few prob­lems. He got bucked off during one training session. Right after that, he went out and bought a purple motorcycle helmet and rode the same animal with the new headgear for the next 30 days. 
"I never got bucked off after that. I still have the helmet," he said with a laugh. 
·­
Echo and the Bunnymen don't play games. 
ANN SEIFERT features writer 
I 
'm looking for a new direc­tion," so sings I an McCulloch on the first single off Echo & the Bunnymen's new album, their sixth, cleverly titled Echo and the Bunnymen. 

Echo and the Bunnymen 
The band has certainly up­held Its high standards on this new vinyl offering. An Im­mensely popular group, Echo & the Bunnymen lead the way In Great Britain, much In the same way that R.E.M. and the Replacements dominate the progressive scene In the U.S. These are the bands that set the trends which all other bands emulate, whether con­sciously or not. 
On their new LP, Echo & the Bunnymen offer a lot to wonder about and admire. The songs are stylish and are much In the same vein C)S "Seven Seas" of 1984's brilliant Ocean Rain LP. The tunes are catchy and light with the familiar chords and guitar work so unique to the UK foursome. 
In 1980, The English Beat, Roxy Music and Bauhaus were the biggest things around in England. Echo quickly as­cended to the heights these bands had already achieved with a successful first album entitled Crocodiles released the same year. 
tan McCulloch's distinct voice as the frontman for the band helped distinguish Echo & the Bunnyman from the rest of the pack right from the start. The public loved them then and obviously still does --the al­bum hit number one on the College Top I00 in late August and It still remains on top. Yes, the talent Is still there as are the strong lyrics and melodies. 
The first single, "New Direc­tion" Is one of the best cuts on the album, as Is "Lips Like Sugar." 
This album is distinctive for Its album sleeve. The front and back photographs are works of Anton CorbUn, who has also worked with U2 and Julian Cope. 
At a time when self­admiration would be in order for this acclaimed band, the group has not opted for it. In­stead, they remain a unit which does Its own thing, instead of trying to fit the mold. (As an aside, If you are already an Echo fan, you will most likely appreciate the talents of En­gland's The Mighty Lemon Drops as well. They have a new album called Out of Hand, which runs along the same vein as the music of Echo.) On Echo's album, though, other choice cuts to hear are "The Game," "Bedbugs and Bal­lyhoo" and "Blue Blue Ocean." 
McCulloch, Sergeant, Pattin-
son, and De Freitas, the four guys who comprise Echo & the Bunnymen, deserve high praise for putting out such an accessi­ble new album without renouncing their roots at a time when it's easy to sell out. Too many bands these days aim to fit into radio station formats, even though credibility and originality are destroyed in the process. Not In this case. 
Even as they move Inevitably on to a "new direction," Echo & the Bunnymen do so without forgetting their longtime fans as they gain new ones. Support the great sounds of Echo & the Bunnymen: they're out to make music, not money. 
p.s. Some of you might like to know that Echo & the Bun­nymen released a singles al­bum in 1985 entitled Songs To Learn and Sing, and it contains ­songs off of the first four Echo LP's, all definitely worth listen­ing to. 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
-
-
-


page 10 The Observer Thursday, September 24, 1987 
Sports Briefs 
The SMC volleyball team raised its record to 6-3 by beating previously undefeated Goshen Col­lege, 15-7, 15-10, 15-12. Margaret Feldman's strong serving keyed the victory in the third game, while Katy .Killilea, Tammy Suth and Michelle Sibilsky had eight kills apiece. The next game for the Belles is tomorrow at home against Sienna Heights at 5:30 
p.m. -The Observer 
The Alpine Club is holding a very important meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Annapolis Room, first floor LaFortune. -The Observer 
The Domer Runs September 26 will start at 10 a.m. rather than 10:30. Runners should sign up from 9-9:45 a.m. -The Observer 
The ski team will hold a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre for those interested in a Christmas break ski trip. This year's trip, open to all students, will be to Telluride, Co., Jan. 2-10. -The Observer 
The varsity basketball program&, men's and women's, will be holding their annual softball games Sunday, September 27, at 1:30 p.m. The games will be played at Moreau Field and all stu­dents are encouraged to come and support the bas­ketball programs. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for SMC intramurals co-ed flag football. For more information and sign­up forms contact Angela Athletic Facility at 284­5549. -The Observer 
Lyons Hall will hold its campus-wide volleyball tournament October 3-4 on Green Field. Proceeds will go to Logan Center. Sign up in the Dining Halls. -The Observer 
SMC basketball tryouts will begin Sunday, October 4, from 6-8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Players must have a physical to try out. For more information, call 5548. -The Observer 
Stepan Court time requests are now being accepted at the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune. If your clulYorganization would like to reserve time for basketball, now is the time to ap­ply. Deadline for applications is tomorrow. -The Observer 
n.~Notre Dame offkle, located on the llllrd floor of Lafortune Stu­
-
dMI Centw, eccepta clualfled .m.111ing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday 1t11oug11 Fftdar. The~ Selnl ~office, located on the third floor of H...a-Collge Cent•, eccepta claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., MondayClassifieds througll Fftdar. Deedllne for next•claalfledala 3 p.m. All ctautfleda must 
t. pnlpakl, el~ In pen1011 or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:rw.cter.l* day. 
NOTICES Notice: Today Is John Blasi's birthday.  PIHH, piHH, piHH LYNETTE DICKSON neede her kaye beck dnperehllyllll no questions asked 1111 REWARD 1111 Plnn cell 2971 anytime, but late at night.  I NEED PENN ST GA'SI MOM AND DAD WILL PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL SUE AT X4238. WANT USC-ND FOOTBALL TIX. 213­422·2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS.  PERSONALS Happy Birthday John Blasi. -Sherry  I'M YOUNG AND RESTLESS AND GOING TO PURDUE FRIDAY, SEPT. 25. BUT THIS GUIDING LIGHT NEEDS RIDERS! COMING? CALL JODI AT 1282.  604 F-MEN Tuesday was great! Can't wait till you get back from Purdue!!! Love Sandy, Sue, Daph & all... I want you Mike Q.  
Wish him a happy ona.  Thank•  for  everything.  You're  the  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  Love Anne K.  
beatl To all the happy tlmn we'va had  CAARYOUTT03A.M. U.S.31 N., ONE  
SPEE-DEE WOADPROCESSING. 237-1949; H: 277-8131.  0:  and the tlmn to comell 4-EVER 1et & 10  NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  John B., let's (wink,wlnk). -Trix  party  late  tonight  THE MOST IMPORTANT THING RIGHT NOW IS YOUR HAPPINESS. LOVE AL­ 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO· CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE  Love Your, L.W.C. ·····························································-··  I NEED PURDUE & ALL HOME GAME GA'S. 272-13011  THE CARDINALS FRESHENERS  ARE  URINAL  AIR  HEY, I NEED 3 GA'S TO ANY HOME GAMEl PLEASE CALL PATII AT 284­ WAYS, KEL, SHELBY, DEE, REESE, AND CAR  
TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY; 277·2724 EVE.  FOR RENT  I WILL GIVE MY BODY OR EVEN MONEY FOR 2 BC GA'S CALL JOHN  Uncle'a Thureday night  5176.  Toad, Thanks. I love you too. All of your camels have been stol~n. Love,  
TYPING AVAILABLE  For rent: Time will John B. during Sarin's  AT 1980  blank genel'lltlon farewell concert Your lzod'e In the wnh eo you can't  Goldstein.  
287-4082 TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS  SYR Is now tor rent. Call x2445. COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE AEN· TALS 272-5959  I WILL GIVE ANYTHING FOR 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 BC GA PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 1654 IT WILL BE WORTH YOUR WHILE  go to Bridget'• always, always mocking me. PLEASE HELPIII  Cubl, Snell, Vlno, Lllr, Krlaten, Pet, Reno, Brian, Dave, Jam.., Goodby, I'll miH you all thla yur.  Hey ZHULKSTER, you think you're bad...we think you're feeling just a tad bit superior. But that's OK, nothing is over until we decide ~ is. -The roomies from hell  
234-8997  FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-388M!88-Q955  BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S I NEED 4 BC GA'S. CALL FRANK -3104  Need ride home from PURDUE anytime SUNDAY. Call LISA £3832  Have fun In South Bend end write me everyday. Love, Merle  Happy Birthday John Blasi. -All the girls you've loved before.  
Receive $5 off $50 or more purcheee of your textbooks at Pandora's Bookstore, located on 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weeki 10:00 a.m.-5:30. WHh, receive an extra 10% off on pur­chases of uaed paperbacks (In stock) at Pandora's Bookstore, located at 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weeki 10:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m. I LOST/FOUND I If you found a coin In your lap please  B & BIn quiet country eettlng just 7 miles from campus. Two night mlm. $45.00 per night. (816) 884-3751 for Info. or reeerva­tlons. MOVE IN NOWI FREE RENT UNTIL 1Cl-2597. Two eeparate 2 bedroom apart­menta available, each with kitchen, full bathroom and large living room. Beds and dreseera furnished. Rent Includes all utliijies. Call 232-9239. 3 BEDROOM APTM BEAUTIFUL RENOVATED HOME 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS 233 6298 SEEKING APARTMENT-MATE TO SHARE SUNNY,FAESHL Y DECORATED 2 BDRM. FLAT IN HIS· TOAIC HOME 2 112 M FROM CAMPUS. $225 INCLUDES ALL, EVEN LAUNDRY.  WANTED: USC GA's WILL PAY$$$$$$$ CALL ELLEN 272-0806 HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP My Dad needs 2 Navy GAs I II I dent get them he will eend some very LARGE, very UN­FORGIVING persons out looking for me. Seve my health, please I Call Pat at x1766 I NEED 2 G.A.S FOR THE USC GAME ON OCT 24. IF YOU GOT 'EM, SELL 'EM TO ME. CALL 3772 1 WAY FLIGHT TO NYC SAT OCT 17 9:30 AM 2874336 NEED Pm TIX please call Becca 4290 or Mom will kill me  Good grecloue vermin thenke tor the lunch you guye rnlly ere bo.. maybe eomeday.... l could.... be.•... naw... wlho the hell would want to be vermin like you guye Riders needed to St. Bonaventure U. or Erie PA this weekend or next. £2033 NEED AIDE TO PURDUE THAT LEAVES FRI. AND RETURNS SAT. NITE. WILL SHARE COSTS. CALL BARRY AT 1204. ARE YOU TIRED OF LIFELESS MUSIC ?? Let us inject a doee of tun into your social event.....Call the PARTY DOCTORS-Dan at 3626-Mike at 3413 FOR SALE!  Boy do I have a birthday present tor you John B. Meet you on the 9th green at 3am. -The Harlot AAA RUMMAGE SALE: 1ST UNI­TARIAN CHURCH, 101 E. NOATHSHOAE DR. (CORNER OF MIC­HIGAN), SAT. B26, 9-3. CLOTHING, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, BOOKS, TOYS, MORE. Three girls need professional masseur Secretarial skills optional Call £2494 to eet up an interview ONLY FIVE DAYS UNTIL JULIA HEW­SON TURNS TWENTY ONE. FEEL THE  Let's take a look at one simple fact: The CARDINALS ere In ARST PLACE. The Meta •ren•t. GO CARDS! Joe Sincerity-a Yes, we trust only you. And we did quote you on thatl Get all your homework dona becauee the rest of the TNLC is meeting you in the quad. DON'T FORGET THE TENT OR THE FLOYD! -B,S,M&M D Take a walk on the wild side C 4 tun Howard girls looking tor 4 tun guys (package deal only) lor SYR Oct. 1 0 No strings attached, call X2484 & live a little I Tara, A toast for the best three months of my lite and the person who made it all possible. If the past is any indication  
bring It to John in 227 Sorin, and you will be set tree from the temple. What better time to free youreelf then on his birthday.  CALL MARY: 2335065 OR 2881202  NEED 2 GAs or STUD. TIX FOR BAMA Call Rachel x2930  2 BOSTON CONCERT TIX TOGETHER IN INDIANAPOLIS ON &28 CALL DAVE AT 1425  EXCITEMENT. PARTY THUR. NITE  of the future then I can hardly wait. 1 miss you amd love you. Steve  
Found: Ona bracelet. Silver and pearls. A friend tells me that the pertume It Is imbued with Is Chane! No. 5. n you want this back, call 1536 eHher early or late, or call 239-5305 and ask for Mark Mclaughlin.  WANTED I want to party on my birthday. Come and visit me today and join in the celebra­tion. John B. 227 Sorin.  I NEED PURDUE TIX MIKE 1741 GA'S WANTED 1 USC AND 4 ALA­BAMA. CALL BILL x3388 NEED 2 USC GA'S PARENTS VISITING  NEED 2 NAVY GA CALL CHRIS 233­2764 ........................_......................................... BLANK GENERATION they sweat at uncles tonight  WITH $2 PITCHERS & blank generation AT UNCLE'SII John B., Greg has some great stuff. Let's do ~ wijh Beelzebub. -C.  STEPHANIE: Sorry tor being so "Obnoxious". Let's go do some shadows sometime. I want you. Cali me. Today is Notre Dame's newest social~e·s birthday! Have you met him yet? His name is Kevin Burke and today he's  
Whoever picked up my Guess jean jacket  AUDITORS  NEEDED  DAYS.  WRITE  STEVE 277-8932  Un anne fa oggi: GUBBIO Ml manca ltalia  FREE: Trip to Daytona plus commission  finally turning 201 So ~ you know him, make sure you wish him a happy 20thl  
with 10 and keys by mlsteke at Senior Bar on Thurs. 9117 -Pieaee call mel No questions asked. Leanne 289-6512 FOUND ..•. SET OF KEYS AFTER THE GAME -ROOM AND CAR KEYS. YOU CAN FIND THEM AT LAFORTUNE LOST & FOUND HELP 1111 LOST: One checkbook Friday aftemoon (12·1p.m.) between PW & Cushing. Also, Friday nile-white NO jacket with green & yellow piping, says 'brew crew' on front,  YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. Modelll needed lor I USB Ana Arta De­partment. Clothed, $4.00 hr., nude, se.oo hr and up. Conlllct Jolin For­eythe or Tony Droege, 237-4277, or Herold Langland, 237-4475. NEED RIDE TO PURDUE LEAVING SAT. MOAN. CALL KATHY AND PAULA AT 3590.  WILL TRADE 2 GA PSU FOR 2 GA BC OR BAMA. 201-359-2132. WILL TRADE 2 USC TIX FOR 2 BAMA TIX (GA). CALL KATIE 404-257-8588. TWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA· TION -TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US CO MATI 283-3549  I Ciao a tutti I -Davlde WANTED: One undersexed guy to go camping In the wilderness of Michigan with 10 affection-starved girls. If inter­ested, pleaee call 4251. FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER, NOW THAT I HAVE YOUR ATIENTION, UP TO 4 NO CHICKS NEED A AIDE TO PURDUE FRI. AFTN, AND BACK TO NO SAT AFTER THE GAME CALL ROXANNE WITH THE RED LIGHT 1266  money. Going to Florida? Go for tree. Take advantage of promoting the £1 Spring Break trip. II interested call Desig­ner's of Travel1·800-453-9074. Immedi­ately! Aida or riders needed tor 2 U2 fanatics to Cleveland Oct 6 show. II interested, call Palty 4160 endad Do you have our PANTY'S? We naed H back-running lowl Please call­Love ya, SW,Kitten,Mini,Paddlngton, Cinderella,  Have a great day Kevin I To all flaming bags of estrogen, if your interests are handcuffs and Mazola, call Chip & Flip £2400 To the blonde girl wlho was wearing purple sweatpants and buying Oreos, Diet Coke, etc. at the LaFortune Deli Tuesday night, YOU ARE GORGEOUS.  
contains NO 10, detex, drivers' llcenee, etc either at Navarre St, Campus View or Brendenwood Apt&. II any of the above found, pleaee contact ZooBraln a.k.a. Colleen at 283-4355 or 411 PW. ...................................."/''''''''''''''''''''''''' FOUND, Outalde of Morris tnr Saturday morning, a blue watch .wifh a black wrietband. II you 1oet 11. call1815 with a full deecrlptlon of the watch to claim H. Ask lor Pat.  DO YOU HAVE A WHIRLPOOL FOR THE BATHTUB THAT YOU'RE NOT USING AND PROBABLY WON'T? IF YOU HAVE ONE SITTING AROUND AND WANT TO SELL IT, PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 P.M. Ride to PURDUE I'm leaving Fri. 11 :30am want to come wHh?? call 1209 1 ATTN: Drivers to Purdue. I need a ride to Purdue. Leaving Friday after 2 and  RICH ALUM NEEDS SO CAL IITICKETSII 233 6298 Want to treda 2 U.S.C. lor 2 B.C. tics: call Paul ~77-6399 Need 2 BAMA GAs or my parents will meke me drink meat. Tim 1199 Need 2 BAMA GAs or my parents will make me drink meat. Tim 1199  SEX SEX SEX SEX, not really but I do need a rlda back to NO Sun. from Purdue. Help me please. Call Roxanne w~h the blue light 1267 Need ride to St. Louie, Mo. Oct 8 or 10. will pay gas $$$ Mike X3775 or 1-BOD-GOOD·SEX HAIR & HORMONE YOU GUYS ARE THE GREATEST! THANKS AGAIN. BY THE WAY, DO YOU KNOW THE FULL  Ballerina, Bambi, & Bubbles NEED AIDE TO PURDUE FAt AFTER 5 AND BACK SUN. BIG BUCKS, NO WHAMMIESIII 284-4083 AFTER 3PM Kirsten, Is this what you always wanted? THE CARDS EAT WORMS  Ferris,Monk(DH) & Gooch, Sorry about dragging you out of bed, but H was worth H... wasn't H? We love you (Pangborn Buds). Ollie and KJ blank generation at Uncle's Thursday night register to win a dale with Joan Buczkowski She ain't got nobody to kias  
- LOST: One blue wallet Thursday night on the South Quad. II found please call Pat at 1815 Immediately. There are aeverat forma of 10 Inside which I NEEDI Aewlld Hretumedl Lost: Blue Bud Light keycheln on way back from game. Call Joe at 1748.  returning anytime Sunday. Call Palty at 284-5264. FOR SALE You may now by a spot on my list of female friends. Call John at x2445.  HELPIII MUll heve 3 GA's tor USCI $$$ WILL PAY$$$ Please call ROBIN x3832 I need 2 GA'a lor NA VYI call David at x1817 (pleaeel)  NAMES OF YOUR SYA DATES? NORMS LEO--THE weekend is corning. Sleep light. Morrissey 2AB Scientists agree that all species of Pond Scum Indigenous to the Northeestern U.S. will die by October 1.  SMALL B.V.III No, Long latanda ere NOT on •te tonight, neither ere Btlngere, IIUT lllllybe ­cen atilt get down • FEW pltchere anyweylll Join ue?  Blonde-Michele Chris. Morrissey. Obeer­ver. I'll take care of the Silverware and you tell me about yoursen. Watch tor me Friday at breekfaet. Jr. Adm. TRISH: Do you have your skateboard ready? Maybe just skate South? -JA  
- LOST: GLASSES WHEN: ON DAY OF NO VS MS GAME WHERE: SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SMC AND NO BOOKSTORE WHY: HAVEN~ YOU BEEN TRASHED BEFORE? IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL SUE 284-5067 LOST STUDENT TIX-SECTION 33 ANY INFO CALL MARY DUNNIGAN 284-5188  1984 Toyota Extra-Cab Pick-Up. Auto­matic, AMFM & Cassette, 21,000 miles. $5,200. Call Katie 239-5200 during day, or ~2-5238 after 6:00. 1976 PONTIAC ASTAE. $500 OR BEST OFFER. WILL RUN. 289-2478. TICKETS Tickets lor John Blasi's birthday calebra­ Need 1 ticket tor B.C. and 2for Alabama. Call now-1885. Going to Wash. D.C. tor break? I have a plane Hekel I need to get rid of. Call 1885. I NEED 4 UCS GA'S CALL 283-2987 DESPERATELY NEED 1 NAVY TIX (WILL TRADE USC TIX) CALL 2545. 2 USC G.A's. $5 helps a city council can­didate, buys dinner at his rally, and buys a chance to win USC tlx. Raffle held Oct.  THE METS ARE POND SCUM THE METS ARE POND SCUM THE METS ARE POND SCUM MEL BEAR, WE'RE GLAD YOU ARE BACK BECAUSE WE REALLY MISSED YOU, AND WE HOPE YOU WILL STAY BECAUSE WE LOVE YOU. BUT, NO MATIER WHAT YOU DECIDE TO DO, WE WILL UNDERSTAND BECAUSE  1 G.A. ticket needed for the USC game $$$. Call 2114-4372. John B., your such a nice guy. You IHtie cutle pie. Happy birthday.-The girls ESKIMO blllnk generation at Uncle'a Thul'llday night, drink epeclale Regll­ter to win a dele with Brian Brohman IF YOU HAVE MY TIE(70391) I WANT IT BACK.  Have a great birthday John B. -Chris D. Dearest Jack, When the gerbil emerges there will be six more weeks of Iaiii Love & Kisses, UIZ BEAUTIFUL Brunch was fun....How about diner? Love -the Pipe.  
FOUND 2 STUDENT FOOTBALL TICS mUll be able to Identify aectlon & row. Call MillY Lee at 2897.  tlon today are now tree. None have been bought yet so all you have to do Is call 2445 a'ld wish me a happy birthday.  1 , sponsored by Commmee to Elect Lee Brummett. Call by Sapt. 29. 288-2277, 272-3438, 277-2087.  DESPERATELY NEED 1 or 2 NAVY TIX CALL ALYSSA 3736  DIE LETSGOES, DIEt METS ARE POND SCUM!  Ellen, Will you go to the Hog SYR with me? M.D.  


Thursday, September 24, 1987-page 11 The Observer page 11 
Perez making good on second chance 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL -Montreal Ex­pos' pitcher Pascual Perez has made a remarkable trans­formation -on and off the field. 
Perez, a 30-year-old right­hander, was convicted of cocaine possession in his native Dominican Republic in 1984, and his once-promising baseball career came perilously close to ending. 
Now, Perez has battled back from that incident and al­coholic problems, and become an important factor in the Ex­pos' drive for the National League East title. 
Perez attends Alcholics Anonymous meetings once a week, whether the Expos are at home or on the road. He also submits to urinalysis drug tests twice a week. 
So far, the results have been satisfactory. 
"Pascual Perez has been transformed," Expos assistant general manager Dave Dombrokski said. "He's the only guy on the team who goes through these tests or meetings, and he's proved to be a model citizen." 
Perez also has proved to be a model for the rest of the Montreal pitching staff, which has been given a major boost since he was recalled from the minor leagues Aug. 19. 
Perez has a 5-0 record with a 2.24 earned run average. The Expos have won all seven games which he has started. 
"I don't know whether to call him our good luck charm or our stopper," Expos Manager Buck Rodgers said. "But I know that he's given us a big boost." 
Perez, the oldest of nine children, grew up in poor sur­
You're Invited 
ncounter 
A RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
DIRECTED BY 
STUDENTS, FACUL TV & STAFF 

October 9-11, 1987 
November 20-22, 1987 
January 22-24, 1988 
March 25-27, 1988 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office (Badin Hall) 239-5242 
SIGN UP 
DEADLINE: September 29, 1987 
"For October Retreat Only" 
COST: $15.00 

roundings in Santo Domingo. 
His first professional contract, signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1976, brought him an opportunity at a better life and some unexpected responsibili­ties. 
"Soon, I was the main bread­winner for the family," Perez said. "I ended up supporting them." 
But helping his family im­prove its living conditions turned out to have far-reaching consequences for Perez. 
"I found it very difficult to live in my country because I was making money, because everybody was jealous of me," he said. "Everybody thought because I was a baseball player and living in America, life was easy. 
"People would start asking me to put money in their pock­ets. One day, one peso, the next day two pesos, and the next day three. 
"When I said, 'It's enough,' I was an enemy." 
Still, life was good for Perez. He made a brief major league debut with the Pirates in 1980, had another quick look with Pittsburgh in 1981 and was dealt to the Atlanta Braves in June 1982. 
He was impressive in the final three months of 1982 with the Braves and became the ace of the staff in 1983, with a 15-8 record and 3.43 ERA. 
But fame soon brought him attention from the Dominican police. After they finished in­vestigating him, Perez spent three months in prison and missed the first month of the 1984 season. 
"I thought my career and my life were over," Perez said. "I was ashamed and I was hurt." 
.'t.....
.
'" 
,.. 
-~ 
!IL 
,~:­
AP Photo 

Vance Law and the Montreal Expos have risen Pascual Perez. See AP story at left. In the standings since the acquisition of a new 
Niekro returns home to Braves to start season's last game 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Knuckleballer Phil Niekro, who threw his first pitch in an Atlanta uniform in 1966, signed a contract with the Braves on Wednesday and will make one last start Sunday in the club's final game of the 1987 season. 
The 48-year-old Niekro, who has won 318 games in his 24 major-league seasons, will start Sunday against San Fran­cisco, the team he beat for his last National League victory, defeating the Giants 6-2 on Sept. 26, 1983. 
"I feel great. It's the best feeling I've had in four years since I left Atlanta," said Niekro, who was released by the Braves after the 1983 season. 
After a brief meeting with the media, Niekro threw batting practice before Atlanta's game with the Houston Astros Wed­nesday. 
"It's the first time I've thrown to a batter in three 
Hurts 
continued from page 16 
Just a couple of interesting statistics heading into the game: Senior walk-on Vince Phelan, who was suddenly thrust into the Irish starting punting job this season, already has exceeded all expectations. His 
44.1 yards per kick average 


ironwood liquors 
272-7144 

1725 N. Ironwood South Bend 
weeks," said Niekro, who was noticeably enjoying himself in his familiar uniform with the 35 on his back. 
"I knew I'd be back some day, somehow," said Niekro, who began his career in the· minor leagues in 1959 in Wel­lsville, Ohio. 
Niekro, who made it to the major league's with the then­Milwaukee Braves in 1964 and came to Atlanta when the fran­chise moved there in 1966, said he will join the Braves' organi­zation in a yet-to-be­determined position. 
ranks ninth in the nation. 
• Purdue coach Fred Akers sports a 5-2 record against Holtz in their previous 
meetings down south. Akers --­
began coaching at Texas in 1977, the same year Holtz took over at the Arkansas helm. 
One of Holtz' two victories over Akers was a 42-11 Arkansas rout in 1981, when the Longhorns were the number­one team in the nation and the Razorbacks were unranked. 

-~ ··~----------­
Irish outside hitter 
Bennett, ND finally at home 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team has crept into the Mid­west Regional Poll, climbing into the ninth slot after winning last weekend's Eastern Ken­tucky Colonial Invitational. 
One of the keys to the team's success has been the aggres­sive play of junior Zanette Ben­nett, who has been making quite an impact on her oppo­nents. 
As an outside hitter, the San Antonio native has become a formidable force in the frontline. Recently, this im­pressive play has earned her a spot on the EKU Colonial Invi­tational all-tournament team. 
"I like to intimidate other people," said Bennett. "When I'm hitting well and playing defense well I just like to get my teammates pumped up." 
Zanette, better known as "Z" to many friends and fans, has stepped forward to lead the team in kills average, hitting 
percentage  and  service  ace  
average.  
Her  performance  has  also  

earned her recognition by the North Star Conference as her 
Intense 
continued from page 16 
and he was aided by a defense that protected him well all night, but especially late in the second half. Several charges at the Irish goal were turned away by the defense, and a Redbird header struck the crossbar with about five minutes remaining. But the Irish escaped unscathed, and statistics continue to reflect her dominance. 
"She has a world of poten­tial," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "Reaching it is the key and she can do that if she wishes to." 
Bennett tried to hone the skills gained from nine years experience while playing for the East team this summer in the Olympic Festival. 
The maturity and experience gained from playing amid a field of other talented players has helped Bennett define her goals. 
"I'd like to become more con­sistent on defense and in my hitting," said Bennett, "and I'd like to be an all-American by senior year so I can end my career with a bang." 
Her quickness and desire to win makes that a possibility. It also helps to have what Lam­bert feels is "tremendous physical ability." 
"I like a challenge all the time," said Bennett. "Winning makes me hungry for someth­ing else." 
The rest of the Irish seem to share this philosophy, and if so, Bennett and her teammates could make things miserable visiting Bradley tonight. 
Notre Dame, now 9-2, will put its six-game winning streak on the line against a struggling Bradley team. 
The Irish will also try to ex­tend their string of 12 consecu­tive home victories by defeat­ing the 2-8 Braves. 
"Bradley has been hurt by players leaving," said Lam­bert. "They have not been having a great year, but they have always been a very scrappy team and we have to be able to handle that." 
Notre Dame will have to maintain its intensity and over­come some problems of its own. 
With an ankle injury making junior Mary Kay Waller's return questionable and junior Whitney Shewman not yet back in full force after recovery from knee surgery, the Irish have had to adjust their lineups. 
Several new players have been incorporated into a lineup which, despite its problems, Lambert has praised for "play­ing right down to the bitter end." 
"If they can continue that type of thinking," said Lam­bert, "they will do very well." 
Thursday, September 24, 1987 

The Observer I Greg Kohs Zanette Bennett attempting a kill has been a rather common sight for the Irish volleyball team. Molly Mahoney features the big-play Bennett, and previews Notre Dame's game against Bradley at left. 
SUNNY Welcomes 
101.SFM

NIGHT 

TICKETS: 515.50 ON SALE J.A.C.C. Box Office, SEARS (UP Mall, Elkhart); ST. JOE BANK (Main Office); NIGHTWINDS (No. Village Mall, Niles); ELKHART TRUTH; SUPER SOUNDS (Elk­hart); J.R. 's MUSIC SHOP (LaPorte); MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor). 
CHARGE By Phone (219) 239-7356 
my words -they're going to beat some excellent teams this year. They counterattacked well, and we responded nicely. Hopefully it will prove to be a good tune-up for the weekend." 
The Irish face Wright State on Saturday and Boston Col­lege Sunday. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
"These are both very high quality programs," said Grace. "Wright State is going to be a big game because they're in our region, and Bos­ton College always has a good squad. It'll be good to go on the road and perhaps see how good we really are." 
next head to Dayton for the f:!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!fl 
Wright State Tournament. "We beat a good team tonight," said Grace. "Mark 
Offense 
continued from page 16 
Caroline Berezny (seven goals, nine assists last season). The two-time Monogram winner will be counted on to continue 
~:r !~~tie1 ~i!~~~: ~~~schk~re to 
"She's just a really strongplayer," said Lindenfeld. 
"If we're going to win, our 
BEACON BOWL BAR & RESTAURANT WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
Bowling Mon. -Fri. after 9:00pm & All day Saturday & Sunday. NlYST. MARY'S STUDE-NT DISCOUNT RATE-S 
4210 Lincolnway West 
offense is going to have to come l.!;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii2ii34iiiii-4iiiiiiii1iioii7iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
throue;h." -

LIQUOR 272-2274 
Rlkaloff Vodka 1. /5 liter $7.99
RETURNABLES 
H.W. Peach Schnapp's 1. 75 liter
Budweiser 24 bottles $6.99 
$9.99

Bud Lite 24 bottles $6.99 
Gino Tequila 1.75 liter $11.99 
WINE COOLERS

Philadelphia Blend 1.75 liter 
Seagram's Coolers 4 pack
$9.99

IMPORTS $2.99
Castillo Rum 1.75 liter $10.99
Chihuahua 6-pack(non· Bartles 8( James 4 pack $2.99
Southern comfort 1.75 liter 
returnables) $2.99 
$12.99 

(taste better than Corona) V.O. 1.75 liter $16.99 
Red Horse Malt 16 oz. 6 pack(non-retumables) $1.99 LaBatts Beer 6 pack(non­
Place your order for SYR 

retumables) $2.99 
Parties 




-~~ -~--~--------~ ~ --~ 
----------~-------~~ ----~---~------......
I 
Thursday, September 24, 1987 
The Observer page 13 
I 
.·~ 
.. ~--' 

i 
Nelson Llrlano of the Toronto Blue Jays Jumps to turn a double play In action earlier this season. The Blue Jays stayed one-half game ahead of 
AL roundup 
Bell leads Jays over Orioles 
I 
j 
l 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.-Saying it was "the toughest thing I've ever gone through in my life," defensive end Mark Gastineau crossed his teammates' picket line Wednesday and reported to the New York Jets. 
"I'm being loyal to the people who have been paying me for nine years," Gastineau said, specifically mentioning Jets owner Leon Hess and Coach Joe Walton. "I thought about this for a long while. If there were any things the Jets didn't do that they said they would do ... there wasn't anything. 
"I've had people not talk to me on this team and I've gone through a lot and I will go through more. Mr. Hess has never not talked to me; when I was in the hospital with my knee injury last year, he came to see me. 
"They might not believe I did this out of loyalty," Gastineau said of his striking teammates, "but I am. They do not under­stand Mark Gastineau." 
Gastineau declined a request from player representative Kurt Sohn to show up at a team meeting Tuesday to vote on whether or not to support the strike. 
"He said he had made up his mind and nothing would be achieved by him being there," Sohn told New York Newsday. "We're trying to understand Mark's position. We're trying not to hold any hard feelings against him. We have to re­member that when this is over, we're going to have to go to war again." 
But some members of the Jets weren't as forgiving 
Gastineau crosses NFL picket lines 
toward Gastineau, who was the only Jet not to take part in a pre-game handshake with the New England Patriots prior to Monday night's game. 
"Typical Gastineau move," said backup tight end Rocky Klever when asked about Gas­tineau remammg on the sideline during the handshake. 
"Has he played football yet? Now, he's going to decide to play football," said Klever, noting that Gastineau has just two sacks in his last 18 games, including regular-season, preseason and post-season con­tests. 
Gastineau did not actually cross a picket line because the Jets were not allowed to picket on the property of Hofstra Uni­versity, their training facility. But he was inside the locker room while his teammates were elsewhere, on strike. 
The Jets signed 25 free agents, who reported Wednes­day for physicals, meetings and a workout. Several of them stood at the back of the group of reporters talking to Gas­tineau and listened to the former All-Pro discuss his reasons for not going on strike. 
"This is not Russia, it's not a dictatorship," he said. "I'm doing what I believe I have to do, just as the guys (on strike) are doing what they believe. I've felt strongly this way since the beginning. 
"Four years ago, when Mr. Hess re-did my contract, he said he would have to change the whole salary structure of the Jets. But he did it and it even changed the salaries around the league. 
ORIGINAL JONAH 
FISH FRY FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 25TH GERMAN TOWNSHIP FIRE DEPARTMENT 4:30-7:30
CARRYOUTS Adults $4.50 ALLY Children 2.00 
with special guest GREAT WHITE 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 ~ 8:00 PM . NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 

RESERVED SEATS 
$15.00 

TICKETS ARE NOW UN SALE AT THE A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, SEARS, (U.P. MALL AND ELKHART), ST. JOE BANK (MAIN OFFICE), NIGHTWINDS (NORTH VILLAGE MALL AND NILES); ELKHART TRUTH, SUPER SOUNDS (ELKHART), J.R.'S MUSIC CENTER ILA PORTE) AND MUSIC MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR) 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 239-7356 ($1.50 SERVICE CHARGE PER ORDER) 
PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS FOR ZIP 104 

AP Pholo Detroit In the AL East as both teams won. A sum­mary of last night's American League action ap­pears below. 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -George Bell hit his 47th home run and Jim Clancy pitched a five-hitter Monday night as the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Baltimore Orioles 6-1 and kept their American League East lead. 
Toronto remained one-half game ahead of Detroit, which beat Boston 4-0. The Blue Jays and Tigers begin a four-game series in Toronto Thursday night. The Blue Jays have won four straight and 16 of 21. 
Clancy, 15-10, won his fifth straight decision. He struck out seven and walked one. 
Bell leads the majors in home runs and with 132 RBI. His two­run homer in the sixth made it 5-0 and gave him the highest home run total in the AL since 1969 when Harmon Killebrew led with 49. 
Rookie John Habyan, 5-6, took the loss. 
Tigers 4, Red Sox 0 
BOSTON -Unbeaten Doyle Alexander pitched a two-hitter for his eighth victory Wednes­day night and the Detroit 
Battle of the BANDS 
.= 
FREE Admission 
Tigers tuned up for their Amer­ican League East showdown with Toronto by beating the Boston Red Sox 4-0. 
Alexander, acquired from Atlanta for a minor leaguer on Aug. 12, allowed two singles in the first inning but settled down quickly. He retired the final 22 batters for his third shutout and third complete game. 
The Tigers began the day one-half game behind division­leading Toronto. Detroit starts a four-game series against the Blue Jays Thursday night in Toronto. 
Bill Madlock got his 2,000th career hit and Tom Brookens had a two-run double as Detroit finished the season 12-1 against Boston. Bruce Hurst, 15-12, took the loss. 
Indians 8, Athletics 6 
CLEVELAND -Joe Carter lined a two-run single, break­ing an eighth-inning tie and giving him 100 RBI, as Cleveland Indians beat the Oakland Athletics 8-6 Wednes­day night. 
Carter, who drove in four runs, capped a three-run rally with his single. Chris Bando drew a one-out walk from Eric Plunk, 4-5, and pinch-hitter Carmen Castillo singled. Brett Butler's sacrifice flyoff Gary Lavelle made it 6-6. 

Julio Franco doubled off Den­nis Eckersley and Carter then singled for an 8-6 lead. 
Ed Vande Berg won his first decision of the season. He had made 61 consecutive appear­ances, including 50 this season, without a win, loss or save. 
Twins 4, Rangers 2 

MINNEAPOLIS -Dan Glad~ den hit a two-run homer and a tiebreaking triple in the eighth inning Wednesday night as the Minnesota Twins beat the Texas Rangers 4-2 and cut their magic number for clinching the American League West to six. 
The Twins increased their lead to five games over run­nerup Oakland, which lost to Cleveland 8-6. 
With the score 2-2, Roy Smal­ley hit a one-out single in the Minnesota eighth. Gladden fol­lowed with a triple into the right-field corner that scored pinch-runner Chris Pittaro. Pinch-hitter Don Baylor hit an RBI single with two outs. 
Juan Berenguer, 7-1, got the victory with 2 1-3 hitless in­nings. Jeff Reardon pitched the ninth for his 30th save. Jose Guzman, 14-12, took the loss. 
American League 
AMERICAN LI!AOUE 

Eat  
w  L  Pet.  OB  
Toronto  93  59  .612  
Oettolt  92  59  .609  .5  
Milwaukee  84  66  .553  9  
New YO!il  83  69  .546  10  
Boeton  73  78  .-483  19.5  
BaiUrnore  83  89  .414  30  
Cleveland  58  95  .379  35.5  
Weet  
Minnesota  82  70  .539  
Oakland  n  75  .507  5  
Kanaaa City  76  n  .497  6.5  
Texas  73  76  .-483  8.5  
Cal~omla  72  61  .471  10.5  
Saanla  70  82  .461  12  
Chicago  66  84  .447  14  

Wedneedl!y'a Raaullll Toronto 6, Baltimore 1 Detron 4, Boeton o Cleveland B. Oakland 6 Minnesota 4, Texas 2 Milwaukee 6, New YO!il 7 Cal~omla 10, Chicago 6 Kanaaa City 9, Saaltle 0 
. 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, September 24, 1987 

AP PhOto Howard Johnson and the New York Meta gained National League summaries appear below. a game with a 4·3 win over Montreal last night. 
NL roundup 
Mets win to tighten NL East 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Gary Carter went 4-for-4 and drove in three runs and John Candelaria won his first game for New York as the Mets beat the Montreal Ex­pos 4-3 Wednesday night. 
The Mets started the game trailing first-place St. Louis by three-and-a-half games in the National League East. The third-place Expos entered the game four off the pace. 
Candelaria, obtained from California on Sept. 16, pitched six innings and allowed three runs and five hits. Terry Leach pitched 1 2-3 innings, Randy Myers 1-3, and Roger McDowell pitched the ninth for his 25th save. 
The Expos had runners on first and third with two outs in the ninth, but McDowell struck out Mitch Webster to end the game. 
Pirates 2, Cardinals 0 
ST. LOUIS -Brian Fisher pitched a two-hitter for his third shutout of the season and the Pittsburgh Pirates defeated St. Louis 2-0 Wednes­day night to stall the Cardinals' pennant drive. 
The defeat reduced the Car­dinals' lead over New York to two-and-a-half games in the National League East as the St. Louis' magic number remained at nine. The Mets beat Montreal 4-3. 
Fisher, 10-9, struck out six and walked four en route to his team-high sixth complete game. He also helped set up Pittsburgh's first run against Greg Mathews, 10-11, with a bunt single. 
Junior Ortiz doubled to start the third and moved up when Fisher dropped a perfect bunt along the third-base line. Ortiz scored as Felix Fermin grounded into a double play. 
Phillies 5, Cubs 0 
CHICAGO -Lance Parrish hit a two-run homer and Bruce Ruffin pitched a six-hitter as the Philadelphia Phillies blanked the Chicago Cubs 5-0 Wednesday. 
Ruffin, 11-14, won for the first time since Aug. 19, ending a five-game losing streak. He struck out five and walked one in pitching his first major league shutout. 
It was Ruffin's third com­plete game this season and first since July 20. 
Padres 6, Reds 4 
CINCINNATI-Randy Ready and John Kruk hit home runs with two outs in the 13th inning to lift the San Diego Padres over the Cincinnati Reds 6-4 Wednesday night. 
Cincinnati's loss reduced San Francisco's magic number for clinching the National League West to five games. 
Jeff Montgomery, 1-2, the eighth Reds pitcher, retired 
National League 
NATIONAL LEAOUE 

Eat  
W  L  Pet.  oa  
St. Louis  89  82  .589  
New YO<k  87  65  .572  2.5  
Montreal  65  88  .563  4  
Philadelphia  76  76  .500  13.5  
Plt1sburgh  74  78  .487  15.5  
Chicago  72  79  .477  17  
Weet  
San Francisco  83  69  .548  
Clnclnna11  75  76  .497  7.5  
Houston  72  79  .477  10.5  
Los Angeles  88  88  .434  17  
Atlanta  65  65  .433  17  
San Diego  64  87  .424  18.5  

w.c~....-.y·a Reauna 
Philadelphia 5, Chicago 0 
New Vorl< 4, Montreal 3 
Atlanta 5, Houaton 4 
Pittsburgh 2, St. Loula 0 
San Diego 6, Cincinnati 4 
San Francisco 9, Loa Angeles 8 

·------------. Don't let your term papers wait until the last minute. Call 


THUNDER ENTERPRISES 
Word Processing · Plus 
P.O. Box 414 Sou1h Bend, IN 46624 

Hours 5-9 p.m.
(219) 234·1252 

daily 
Little progress made in NFL strike talks 
pinch-hitter Rob Nelson and Tony Gwynn, who had four hits in seven at-bats, before Ready and Kruk homered. 
Braves 5, Astros 4 
ATLANTA -Albert Hall led of the ninth inning with a triple to complete the cycle and scored on a wild pitch to give the Atlanta Braves a 5-4 victory over the Houston Astros Wed­nesday night. 
Hall singled in the first, doubled in the fifth, and hit a home run in the sixth before tripling against Dave Smith, 2­
2. Hall is the first Brave to hit for the cycle since Billy Collins in 1910. 
SMC Weekend Movies presents: 
Jane Fonda in 
"The Morning After" 
7, 9,11pm 
Carroll Auditorium Sept 25 I 26 

Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Full-scale talks aimed at quickly en­ding the NFL strike began Wednesday as players stayed on picket lines and, at three camps, tried to stop busloads of substitutes from going to work. 
Among those reporting were two union defectors -Randy White of the Dallas Cowboys and Mark Gastineau of the New York Jets. 
The NFL, meantime, said Sunday's games still had not been officially canceled. 
Negotiators sat down at 3 
p.m. EDT, midway through the second full day of the strike. By 7 p.m., they were just start­ing to discuss what was ex­pected to be the most critical item of business -free agency. 
"The two sides are continu­ing to meet. There is no indica­tion how long the meeting will last," John Jones, a spokesman for the NFL Management Council, said at a press brief­ing. "Free agency is the key issue. There is dialogue and discussion but no sense that a settlement is at hand." 
From 3 p.m. until 7 p.m., the two chief negotiators, union boss Gene Upshaw and man­agement head Jack Donlan, had met twice face-to-face and twice reported back to their respective executive commit­tees. 
"I'm hoping we can get it done. That's why we're here," Upshaw said before the bar­gaining session started. "There is no time-frame. Our agenda is to reach an agree­ment, however long it takes." 
Said Donlan: "the next two days are critical. If there's no movement after two days, we're looking at a long one." 
The union is demanding free agency for players with four years' experience. Owners, so far, have refused to modify the current system under which teams are compensated if a player signs with another team. Only one player in 10 years has changed teams un­der that system. 
In addition to Donlan, owners were represented by two team presidents -Tex Schramm of the Dallas Cowboys and Dan Rooney of the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Schramm said he thought the talks would last at least through Thursday. 
"There's too much ground to cover to get it done in a day," he said. 
Settlement or not, owners were planning games for Oct. 4-5 with either the regulars or replacement teams of free agents, retirees and whatever other players they could sign. 
Though picketing was peace­ful at most NFL camps, some Washington Redskins, Houston Oilers and Cincinnati Bengals tried to stop substitutes from reporting for work. 
Ww.uzi
FLORAL co. 

INC. 
GIFTS IMPORTED & DOMESTIC 

"'FfawN ruuL Gi6Q belt a! ~" 
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SO. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS 
''
~H"W" w" ~" 

M232-3354 
Free Delivery to ND&SMC! 
COME IN AND BROWSE Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundaya9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon 
~ ~ 


CORKTOWNE 
>)('II ~~ 
UQUORS,INC. 
~~c~l~eG 1841 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
STATE RD. 23, V4 MILE WEST OF MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET 
~-----2n-sso5 

Busch Kegs $26..88 
NOW HIRING:
Busch $6.99 Pabst Blue Ribbon $6.99 
FOR ALL POSITIONS 
$2.99 

call 277-2151 



Berke Breathed The Far Side 
Mark Williams 
PWT WRRY 

"Listen. I've tried to communicate with him, but he's like a broken record: 'None of your bee's wax, none of your bee's wax.'" 
SUB presents 
7:00, 9:30, 12:00 $2.00 
...... 
4 ACADEMY AWARDS 

Engineering 
tBEST PlcruRE 


A r\11,.
I 
The first caaualty of w•r .. 6nnocence. 
page 15 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Layers 
5 He's all talk, no action 10 Moby ~lck's pursuer 
14 Part of Earth 
15 Conclude 
16 Wonderful one 
17 Nomad's urge 
19 -Bator 
20 Subtle quality 
21 Characteristic 
23 Clean the slate 
26 Charged 1-+--+-­particle 27 Ad's target 30 Dawdle 34 Rara ­35 Diamond rivals 37 Plndar product 

38  Flange  1--+-+--+-­ 
39  Dinner  course  
41  Soak flax  

42 Small bill 43 Narrow ridge 44 Yearn 45 Rouse ©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 47 Pursuit of 
All Rights Reserved perfection 
50 Mouths 8 Being 51 Welsh 9 One who sells 52 Soothing to public 56 Proverb 10 Reunion men 60 Lady's man 11 Pantomime 61 Wayfarer's dance 
film 12 Having wings 64 President's 13 Nonsense office 18 Tan 65 Black and 22 Place for 1A 
blue 24 Touch or 66 Spiced stew taste 67 Corduroy 25 Controversial 
feature 27 Chocolate 68 Bears young substitute 69 Bambi for one 28 Like ewe 
29 Fr. city DOWN 31 Shinto temple 

1 Goldie of film gateway 2 Jacob's 32 Idyllic places 46 Walk like a 
brother 33 Juniper small child 3 1492 vessel 36 Indigent 48 Fixes firmly 4 Sorrow 39 Milk mart 49 Chemical 5 Funny person 40 In an aimless compound 6 -wet (wrong) manner 52 To a place 7 Person 44 Construction beneath 
addressed material 53 Variable star 
09/24187 
09124187 54 Spoken 55 Penn. port 57 Make eyes at 58 Straightedge 
59  Salutation  
word  
62  A Gardner  

63 Wine: Fr. 
Gary Larson 



-----------------------~---~-­
Sports
Thursday, September 24, 1987 page 16 

-.­
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
You can't win games if you don't score goals. 
That simple observation has been haunting Notre Dame field hockey coach Jill Linden­feld this season, as her team has struggled to a 1-2-1 record. 
On Saturday, she will take her team to Purdue for a 9 a.m. game against the powerful Boilermakers. 
"They are an all-scholarship team," noted Lindenfeld, "So we are going in at a disadvan­tage. They lost two all­Americans from last year, and they won't be quite as tough, but they are still a strong team." 
Notre Dame's major fault in this early season has been lack of offense. In the four games played so far, the Irish have managed only two goals. 
The goal shortage has not been for a lack of effort. 
"In one of those games we had 26 shots on goal," noted Lindenfeld, "but the goalie was only forced to make 10 saves. It's a question of accuracy, too." 
"Our defense has been con­sistently strong, and they've improved. It's been our of­fense, they're just not clicking." 
Defensively, Lindenfeld has been relying on junior backer 
see OFFENSE, page 12 
Intense Irish clip Redbirds on Lowney's second-half goal 
By PETE SKIKO The tone of last night's game senior Steve Lowney on a Sports Writer could be set by looking at the pretty feed from a hustling statistics from the scoreless Randy Morris. With about two­It wasn't pretty, but the first half: between the two and-a-half minutes gone in the Notre Dame soccer team came teams, there were five shots on half, Morris chased down a away with a hard-fought 1-0 win goal (most way off line), three long pass across midfield, beat over the Redbirds of Illinois saves, and· 17 penalties -13 a defender to the sideline and State last night at Krause handed to the Redbirds. Illinois sprinted toward the goal. When Stadium. State employed a rather physi­pressed by a Redbird near the 
But, to Head Coach Dennis cal style of play throughout the goal line, the junior deftly Grace, more important than game, showing up in the form flipped the ball in front of the the final score was the intensity of its 22 penalties for the game. net to a wide-open Lowney. The with which the Irish seemed to The stoppages of play tended tap-in was Lowney's first goal play throughout the contest. to slow the action. since he was a freshman. 
"I'll tell you, I wasn't happy "I'd say physical is a mild "We're not a team full of with the boys coming into the way to put it," said Grace, with stars," added Grace, whose game," said Grace, in his regard to the description of the team is currently ranked 20th 
fourth year as the Irish mentor. Redbirds' style. "But none of in the ISAA Collegiate Coaches "I didn't think that they were our guys are going to do anyth­Poll. "But I wouldn't want to mentally prepared to face a ing about it, because they know coach against us, either. There 
team like Illinois State that has that that's not the way we play, isn't an individual on the team a solid national reputation. and if that becomes the way we whose loss would devestate us Sure, we're undefeated (8-0), play, they won't be playing for completely. The team is solid 
but in order to continue to win very long. We played a clean right now, and we've got decent against some of the tougher game, which is paramount to depth. We've been getting the teams remaining on our winning or shutting somebody job done, it's just a matter of schedule we have to play in­out or anything else. I'm proud maintaining good playtense soccer for 90 minutes. We of the way our guys played throughout the game." 
have two goals every game: to tonight." Keeper Dan Lyons recorded play to our potential and to win The second half had just his fourth shutout of the year,the game, in that order. barely begun before the only 
see INTENSE, page 12
Tonight, we did both." goal of the game was scored by 
•.Wf.i'" 

-.A'""/ 
;""' ~.;,;~-~~~-;._#j•"" 
~~:, ___,~--~ 
-----~ 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch The Notre Dame field hockey team Is looking to Sullivan previews the game against the Boner­solve Its offensive problems against Purdue. Tim makers at left. 
Holtz confident, but not a fan of big spread 
The latest point spread on this Saturday's game between Notre Dame and Purdue is 23.5, and there are some good reasons why. 
In case you've been following the player strike in the Non-Football League and haven't tuned into what's going on in real football, the Irish are off to a 2-0 start. That's their best effort out of the starting blocks since 1983. 
On top of that, Notre Dame's two victories have come over Michigan and Michigan State -two Big Ten schools who had temporary residence in the Top 20 polls until they took on Lou Holtz' squad. While the Irish were manhandling the Wolverines and Spartans by a combined score of 57-15, Big Ten non-power Purdue was getting beaten by Washing­ton, 28-10, and squeaking out a 22-22 tie against Louisville (yes, apparently Louisville plays other sports besides basketball) . 
But, in a sense, this weekend's Purdue game will be a big test for the Irish. How are they going to respond in their first game as heavy favorites? 
"I firmly believe that Purdue will make their presence felt," Holtz said. "I don't know how many times we have to go down there and get beat before people realize that they're for real. They're going to come out and play. 
"But I think we're going to play well, too. In both football games (the first two), we haven't faced any adversity. I'm interested to see how we're going to react when things don't come our way. Hopefully our players understand the importance of this foot­ball game." 
Holtz' prediction: "I feel quite sure that we'll come to play, and I think we'll play very, very well." 
One reason Holtz is concerned about things not going his way this weekend is because things 
Marty Strasen 
Assistant Sports Editor 

haven't exactly been going his way since the con­
clusion of the Michigan State game. That's when the Irish started counting injuries. Defensive linemen Ted Fitzgerald (ankle) and 
Jeff Kunz (slippage in the knee) are suffering from previous injuries which are acting up and might keep them out of the game Saturday. 
Starting inside linebacker Wes Pritchett sprained his knee Saturday night and is also a question mark against the Boilers. 
Starting outside linebacker Cedric Figaro has a bruised thigh and is also,questionable. 
None of the injuries appears serious, but Holtz isn't taking any chances and kept all four players out of practice early this week. 
"I wouldn't be as concerned about Purdue were it not for those injuries," said Holtz, who is still without the services of cornerback Brandy Wells and fullback Braxston Banks as well. "The real good football team has got to rise above that." 
If some or all of those players are unable to take the field, here's who to look for in their places: 
Sophomore Bryan Flannery for Kunz at right guard, with junior Tom Gorman and senior Mike Griffin (who have been starting all fall) filling the other two spots on the defensive line. 
Senior walk-on Greg Harris for Pritchett at inside linebacker. Sophomre Rod West for Figaro at outside linebacker. 
And for Wells and Banks, who might be able to 
play when the Irish travel to Pittsburgh two weeks 
from Saturday, Marv Spence at cornerback and 
Pernell Taylor and Anthony Johnson at fullback. 
Holtz couldn't ask for a better time for a weekend 
off after Saturday afternoon. 
see HURTS, page 11 





