I· -' 
COLL 
L..,. 
I. . ( 
Father Bruiser-page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 94 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Cooke, Willis to settle race in Thursday run-off 
Only 8 votes separate Rodgers from Thursday run-off 
By Chris Julka gan with 243 votes, William than a ten-vote difference," Copy Editor Sammon and Mary Giorgio said Tom Brennan, director of with 147 votes, and John Lake Ombudsman. Pat Cooke and Vince Willis and Debby Delahanty with 37 The result of the recount be­
will face each other in a run-off votes. tween Willis and Rodgers did election for student body pres­The narrow difference sepa­not contradict that of the ident Thursday, announced the rating Willis and Rodgers led original count. election committee Tuesday night after a 40-minute recount. 
Because none of the tickets 
Cooke and his running mate received over 50 percent of the Llurie Bink amassed 1458 votes, a run-off election will votes or 39.24 percent of the Election '87 take place Thursday between total vote. Willis and running the two leading tickets of Cooke mate Cathy Nonnenkamp cap­and Willis. Each ticket is al­
tured 784 votes or 21.13 percent lowed to campaign for a periodof the votes cast, edging past 
of 24 hours, starting with Tues­Marty Rodgers and Lou to a recount . between the two day night's 12:20 a.m. an­"Buzz" Eckelkamp by 8 votes. tickets, producing an an offi­nouncement of the election Finishing a further distance cial tally of 776 votes or 20.91 results, and spend the behind were the ''unknown can­percent of the total vote for remainder of their campaigndidates," Raul Gonzales and Rogers and Eckelkamp. funds within the $125 allotment. 
Bill Donaruma, with 266 votes, "It's a matter of policy that Willie Franklin and Jim .Man-we do a recount if there is less see ELECTION, pageS 


Large margins mark senate races 
By ANN MARIE DURNING that I have initiated, especially District 1, received a vote of Staff Reporter in regard to North Dining confidence from 643 of his con­Hall." stituents. Holst, a junior from Large victory margins In District 3, Dillon Hall Holy Cross Hall, ran unopposedcarried Brian Holst, Sean Hof­freshman Dave Carrigan in the district which represents fman, Mike Carrigan, Steve swept the election with 639 Alumni, Carroll, Holy Cross Viz and Steve Wenc into office votes or 76.34 percent. Lewis, Sorin, St. Edward's, and 
in the Student Senate election He beat his opponent, Dave Walsh halls. Tuesday. Bruner, also a Dillon Hall Incumbent Steve Viz, a soph­freshman, in their home dorm, In District 2, Sean Hoffman, more from Flanner Hall, won 127 to 48. another unopposed candidate, District 4, with 596 votes or received 797 votes. The soph­
71.72 percent. Carrigan said, "I was very im­more will now represent Breen­
Viz held a majority in each pressed with the campaign Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley,hall in his district, Grace, Flan­Dave Bruner ran, but I am Keenan, Zahm and his own hall ner, Pasquerilla East and pleased and looking forward to Stanford. West. His opponents, Laura a productive year for the South In the unopposed contest for Janke and Michael Schadek, Quad.'' the off-campus senate seat, 
split the remaining votes, 118 Grace Hall junior Steve Wenc and 117 respectively. District 3 encompasses the received 190 votes. Wenc said Upon hearing the results, Viz halls of Howard, Lyons, Mor­he wants to "become more 
said, "I won't let (my sup­risey and Pangborn as well as familiar with what the job en­porters) down, and I'll try to Dillon. tails, and make some plans for continue some of the reforms Incumbent Brian Holst, of the future." 

Election Results 
SBPandSBVP  percent  number  
Pat Cooke Laurie Bink  39.29  1458  
Vince Willis Cathy Nonnenkamp  21.13  784  
Marty Rodgers 'Buzz' Eckelkamp  20.91  776  
Raul Gonzales Bill Donaruma (Unknowns)  7.16  266  
Willie Franklin Jim Mangan  6.54  243  
Bill Sammon Grace Giorgio  3.96  147  
John Lake Debbie Delahanty  1  37  


Alumni director tells HPC of spirit council 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor  rally club right now, so he wants to involve the hall presi­ the Student Activities Board, said Saint Mary's Traditional  
dents and people in the dorms  Events Chairman Lisa Lawler.  
The establishment of a stu­ so  we  can get  a  real central  "This year (the contestants)  
dent spirit council and a "Mr.  focus on what we're trying to  are  going  to  be  judged  on  
Campus" contest were among  accomplish at each game.  legitimate talent, they have to  
the topics discussed at Tuesday  " (Corrigan)  wants himself,  demonstrate good poise and ap­ 
night's Hall Presidents' Coun­ Lou Holtz, Digger (Phelps), the  pearance, and they have to be  
cil meeting.  captains of the football and bas­ able to intelligently respond to  
"<Notre  Dame  Athletic  ketball  teams,  and  athletes  questions," Lawler said. "The  
Director) Gene Corrigan asked  from other various sports to be  judges  will  be  a  panel  m.  
me to come talk to you," said  on the council along with some  celebrities, as in the past," she  
Lawrence  "Bubba"  Cunnin­ students,''  said  Cunningham.  said.  
gham, director of alumni clubs  "We've  just  got  a  kind  of  "In  the  past  there's  been  
of the Notre Dame Alumni As­ feeling  stage right  now,  we  some pretty vulgar things, and  
sociation.  "He  asked  me  to  don't really know what  (the  it just comes down to the fact  
come over to officially thank  group)  would do,  other than  that they're going to ax  (any  
the student body, I guess the  provide a lot of ideas and a lot  act) if it gets vulgar," Lawler  
easiest way is through the hall  of  enthusiasm  at  the  games  said. "(The judges) don't want  
presidents, for the enthusiasm  next fall," he said.  some guy getting up there and  
and support they've given to the varsity sports this year,  Cunningham asked the hall presidents to submit the names  showing us there are 20 ways to drink a beer or 20 ways to  
starting with football and now with basketball."  of interested students to him in the Alumni Association Office.  do something else that we don't want to know," she said.  
Cunningham  said  Corrigan  In addition a "Mr. Campus"  Lawler said she is coordinat­ 
wants students to start thinking about forming a spirit council for next year. "We have a pep  contest is scheduled for the week of An Tostal, an annual spring festival sponsored by  ing  the  contest with see HPC, page 3  Notre  


The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 2 

In Brief · 
Jimmy Carter said during a speech in Houston, Tex. he has had feelings bordering on racism. "I remem­ber when the television screens were filled with little Et­hiopian and Sudanese children walking along with dis­tended bellies and dying in the arms of their mothers,'' he said. "It's hard for me to believe that one of those children, in the eyes of God, is as important as Amy," his daughter. Carter said all of us are guilty of an insensitivity to others. -Associated Press 
Vice PresidentGeorge Bush will announce Thursday the formation of a presidential campaign committee, a political aide said Tuesday. Creation of the committee will be a major step toward Bush's 1988 presidential candidacy. Rich Bond, a Bush political adviser, said the vice president would announce his candidacy sometime after Labor Day. 
-Associated Press 
Navy Secretary John Lehman, declaring both the Navy and Marine Corps to be in "very good shape," for­mally resigned on Tuesday. Pentagon sources disclosed that James Webb, current assistant defense secretary for reserve affairs, had been selected as his replacement. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger had prevailed upon him to scuttle his own retirement plans and replace Leh­man, according to officials. -Associated Press 

Of Interest · I · 
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Finance Forum continues today with presentations at 4:00p.m. and 7:00 
p.m. Robert Kiley, Chairman of the Board of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority, will present "Getting New Yorkers To Work: The Challenge of Manag­ing and Financing the Nation's Largest Mass Transit Net­work.'' Paul J. Schierl, President and Chief Executive Of­ficer of Fort Howard Paper Company, will conclude the forum with "Fort Howard Finance: Policy, Philosophy and Major Activities." Both presentations will take place in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. -The Observer 
A Print and Sound Collectors Contest is being sponsored by the Friends of the Library at Notre Dame. Interested graduate or undergraduate students who have built collections of print media, such as books, magazines or newspapers, or of sound media, including records, tapes or CD's, should submit an essay on the development of their collection and a bibliography of approximately 25 titles to 221 Memorial Library by March 23. Prizes of $50, $25 and $10 will be awarded in both print and sound categories. -The Observer 
''SummerInternships: Techniques and Resources To Use" will be presented by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 6:30 in room 123 Nieuland Science Hall. This talk will be repeated tom mor­row evening. -The Observer 
Freshman Advisory Council is holding regis­tration for auditions for their Gong Show. Interested stu­dents may call 283-2507 to register. Deadline for registra­tion is February 20. -The Observer 
Charity Ball Committees of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will hold a meeting tonight at 8:00 in the Chicago Room of LaFortune. Members unable to attend may call Jill Gollon at 283-3736. -The Observer 
The Peace Corps will show a film Thursday at 7 
p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. The film is free and open to all students. -The Observer 

Weather · 
All quiet on the stationary front today with partly sunny skies, the lows in the teens and the highs near 30. The same is predicted for Thursday. -The Observer 


------------.1.-=Y-'--' ----­
--Ihe-Obse~'or·-··-­Design Editor .................. Kathy Huston Accent Copy Editor ....... Mike Naughton Design Assi.ttant .. .. .. . . . . .. . Andy Fenoglio Accent Layout.. ...... ..... Melinda Murphy Layout Staff.................... Anne Monahan Typist ............·'........ .. . Esther Ivory Typesetter . .. . . .... . . . .. . Becky Gunderman ND Day Editor .... ............. Susan Coene ........................................... Michael Buc SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington News Editor.................. Chris Bednarski Ad Design .............. Mary Carol Creadon Copy Editor ......................... Chris Julka Sports Wednesday Editor .... Pete Gegen Sport& Copy Editor............. Marty Burns Sports Wednesday Design .. Matt Breslin Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... Bob White Photographer...... .. ...... . .. . . Susan Coene Viewpoint Layout.. ........ Kathleen Moran 
Tbt Obwrvtr (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbt Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas· cd for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tlw Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tlw ObKner is a member of Tbr Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Whatever happened to all the steelworkers in Pittsburgh? 
I remember driving through the steel mill district while growing up in Pittsburgh in the late 1960s. I would sit in the back seat of my dad's car and peek out the window at all the men wearing the funny helmets and carrying lunch boxes and walking everywhere, swarm­ing around the car so that my dad had to drive very slowly. 
No matter when we drove along the stretch of road that was home to the Jones and Laughlin and the U.S. Steel plants, the scene was always the same. Morning, noon and late at night, when the fires from the coke ovens would light up the sky, the stacks would belch smoke and the whistles would blow and the men were there. There were so many of them that they scared me, and I would crouch down in the seat until we left the district. 
I still feel a sort of fear when I drive through the Southside mill district of Pittsburgh, but not because I'm afraid of the crowds of steel­workers coming home after a day's work. There simply are no workers walking the streets; in fact, there's no one there at all. 
You can't help but think of where all the people went, of what all the workers did when the whistle blew for good and the jobs they had planned to have for the rest of their lives were merely casualties of what some people like to call the recession. They seem to have just faded into the unemployment statistics, a footnote in the history of the city they had helped to build. 
I read an article a few weeks ago which gave a glowing report of the nation's economy. Un­employment is down, the economy is on the upswing, and "middle class" Americans are enjoying a higher standard of living than they have in years. 
And if you visit downtown Pittsburgh today, this optimism seems to be well-founded. Bil­lboards proclaiming Pittsburgh to be the na­tion's £1 city pepper the hillsides. Orange detour signs and traffic snarls greet the visitor on every street corner, signals that the city is rebuilding and renovating. 
As much as I love my home city, though, I can't help thinking about the incongruity of elaborate buildings being raised mere blocks from the shells of steel mills. I think about the Glass Palace built in Victorian England, a trib­ute to 19th century industrialization in Britain. 

The glass walls were transparent, however; one could see through them to reveal the social miseries industrialization produced, portrayed by Dickens in such novels as "Bleak House" and "Hard Times." 
It seems that the pattern has repeated itself in American cities of the eighties, only this time it is industrialization which has fallen upon hard times, and the glass palace in Pittsburgh is a monument to the high-technology which has replaced the factories. 
People say such things as "They could get a job if they wanted one" and "They should have seen it coming" when talking about the plight of unemployed steelworkers, as if they deserve their joblessness. Americans don't want to look beyond the display of economic prosperity they have built and see the very real and very human consequences. They pretend nothing happened in cities like Pittsburgh and Youngstown and Gary. 
But anyone who peeked out the back-seat win­dow at the crowds of men swarming around the animated factories of the 60s and 70s still can't believe "it" came and the mills closed. And still can't help wondering what happened to all those men. 
Telemarketlng Earn and hove fun 

Qaeea'• Castle 

Hours are Monday and Tuesday. 5pmto 10pm, 
&The Knights

Sunday. 11 am to 7 pm. 
$6atudent S8.5Q CumiOI8Te
Good pay. short to indefinite pos1t1ons. Immediate 
cut styte 

open1ngs. 
MINUtES AWAY.FROM CAMPUS 272-D312 277-1691 

MANPOWER 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 

Temporory staff specialists 
We aleo t..tare tile Royal BroJUe Saataaaiaa

320 w. LaSalle 
C.at• See a taala •Ieat.....Not Hoare

234-0157 



----------------~----------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 3 

Security Beat 
Sunday Christmas break, a package ad­
dressed to her was stolen from 
7:48p.m. -A Walsh Hall stu­the Lyons Hall mail room. The dent reported the theft of her package was valued at $50. bookbag from the South Dinning 5: 15 p.m. -A student reported Hall between 5:00p.m. and 7:30 receiving several harrasing 
p.m. The bookbag and contents telephone calls over a two-day were valued at $80. period. A suspect has been iden­
9:45 p.m. -Security found 10 tified in this case. old textbooks that had been 5:28p.m.-A student reported dumped in the D-2 parking lot. that she bought a student bas­
ketball ticket for the Duke Monday game. Later she found out the ticket had been stolen from an­
4:40 a.m. -Security dis­other student. The tickets were covered that a student's car had in a bookbag that was stolen been vandalized in the D-1 from South Dining Hall. The stu­parking lot. Damage was esti­dent purchased the ticket from mated at approximately $150. the suspect after running an ad 
11:20 a.m.-ACC building ser­in The Observer. vices crew recovered jewelry which was reported lost in the 6:38 p.m. -A student from ACC during the Duke game on Sorin Hall reported the theft of Sunday. The jewelry, valued at personal property from his $500, was returned to its owner. room while he and his room­
11:45 a.m. -ACC building ser­mates were at dinner. The room vices crew recovered a check was unlocked at the time of the book belonging to a student in theft. Among the items stolen Zahm Hall. were a camera, watches, a wal­
2:36 p.m. -A woman reported let and cash. The value of items that she had lost her checkbook stolen is about $330. Two supi­while attending the Duke bas­cious men were seen in Sorin ketball game on Sunday. In ad­Hall at the time of the theft. dition to personal checks, the 10:30 p.m.-Astudent reported book contained two payroll the theft of his clothes from the checks. Badin Laundry. The clothing 5 p.m.-A student from Lyons was valued at approximately 
Hall reported that before $175. 
Rae Ann Barger  Christl Holz  
.Mary Carol Buhrflend  Patti Knockel  
Julie Darnell  Linda Jean Maloney  
Julie Drey  Elizabeth .Marshall  
.Moira Feeley  Meg McGinlty  
Deirdre Finn  Sue O'Connor  
Rebecca Halloran  Mary Sarah Reardon  
Helene Goudeau  .Jane Shea  
Cindy Hau  Mimi Tuohy  
-or  - 

any Saint Mary's student 
interested in writing for The Observer-please attend a mandatory meeting this Wednesday, February 18, at 7:00p.m. in room 304 of the Haggar College Center. 
Questions? Contact Margie Kersten at 284-5230. 

Put your degree to work where it can do 
a world of good 
Your first job after graduation should offer more than just a paycheck. 
If you're graduating this year, look into a unique opportunity to put your degree to work where it can do a world of good. look into the Peace Corps. 
See our free film Thursday, Feb 19th in the Center for Social Concerns beginning at 7 p.m. Interviews March. 3 & 4 Placement Office-sign up now 

Student's trial postponed to April 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Frese said. The trial thus con­of 1314 Goodland Ave. News Editor tinued into Tuesday. Moore died of severe head in­Mindy Mclntiie · of tbe St. juries one day after being 
The trial of the Notre Dame Joseph County Prosecutor's Of­struck by a car driven by the student charged in connection fice said Mondaythat if the stu­student, police records show. with the traffic death of a South dent's trial·were rescheduled, The reckless homicide Bend man has been res­then it probably would he charge, a Class C felony, is cheduled to April 21. movedto·a much later date be­punishable by up to eight years 
Superior Court Judge Jerome cause ot q; crowded trial calen­in prison and a $10,000 fine. The Frese on Tuesday moved the dar minimum punishment is three student's trial, which was The 20-year-old student h~s years in prison. scheduled for that day. pleaded innocent to charges ·of The involuntary 
"It was bumped by another reckless homicide and involun­manslaughter charge, a Class trial," said Susan Collier, tary manslaughter stemming D felony, carries a maximum Frese's administrative assis­from the Nov. 15 accident. punishment of four years in tant. The case, which will be heard· prison and a $10,000 fine. The 
''Another trial started in Frese's court, involves the minimum penalty is a one-year (Monday) and 'didn't finish," death of Buddy D. Moore, 5?. prison term. 

Soviets release 2 more dissidents 
Associated Press Soviet activity. three-year sentence for alleged "Today or tomorrow he will anti-Soviet activity. 
MOSCOW -The Soviet gov-be released," Gerasimov said. Gerasimov said about 150 ernment announced Tuesday The official Tass news dissidents have been granted that two more dissidents have agency issued a report on pardons so far in a review of been ordered released from Gerasimov's briefing, quoting sentences under two laws prison and that Jewish activist him as saying that Koryagin prohibiting anti-Soviet agita­Josef Begun is likely to be was to be set free and that tion and propaganda and anti­freed. Begun's case was under Soviet slander. 
If they are released, it would review. Koryagin, a 48-year-old psy­be in line with Kremlin actions There have been demonstra­chiatrist, was sentenced in 1981 to free dissidents whose im-tions in the United States ur­to seven years in prison and prisonment has been an obsta-ging Begun's release and five years' internal exile after cle to better Soviet relations plainclothes police in Moscow publishing reports that the So­with the West. Soviet leader broke up a series of demonstra­viet government sent some dis­Mikhail Gorbachev has tions on Begun's behalf last sidents to mental hospitals. launched a liberalization drive week in the Soviet capital. Georgy Arbatov, head of the and has said the Soviet Union Begun, 55, was sentenced to U.S.A.-Canada Institute, said is changing its approach to seven years in prison and five during an interview with Amer­human rights "for all to see." in exile in October 1983 after ican television on Sunday that 
Foreign Ministry spokesman conviction on charges of anti-Begun had been freed. Gennady Gerasimov said the Soviet agitation and But Begun's wife, Inna, said government has ordered the propaganda. she had heard nothing from her release of Anatoly Koryagin Gerasimov told The Associ­husband by Tuesday night.and Alexander Ogorodnikov ated Press in a telephone call and will "most likely" free after the briefing that a list of Begun. those who had been granted 
HPC

Gerasimov told a news brief-clemency included Ogorod­ing he did not know whether nikov, 36, who founded a Chris­continuedfrom page I Koryagin was free yet, but he tian movement in the 1970s. 
Dame senior John Cox andsaid a government decision Sentenced in 1980 to six years asked hall presidents for listswas made Friday to pardon in labor camp, Ogorodnikov is of the names of interested con­him from charges of anti-serving a. second consecutive 
testants prior to Easter break. In other business, the HPC
********************* 
discussed the possibility of es­
tJUNIORS: JPWREGISTRATION: tablishing a fund for the Holy 
Cross Associates Program in 
-LaFortune, South Alcove *Chile. HPC Co-Chairman Joanie Cahill proposed the idea at last week's meeting after a 
-
-Tuesday, Feb 17 9am -1Opm * 
presentation by Holy Cross As­sociates Lou Nanni and Kim
t Wednesday, Feb 18 9am -10pm : 
Krasevac. 

Cahill asked the hall presi­
t •You must bring your I.D. : 
dents for a consensus on donat­
-• You must register at this time to ""­
ing $1500 to the program to aid -attend all weekend events. ~ the needy. The response was 
iC •Tickets will be contained in your : unanimous. "You might be 
able to have Lou (Nanni) come 
-registration package along ""-to your hall council to talk 
-with weekend information. ; about (donating to the pro­gram) ," said Cahill.
**** 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
Presents a Readers Theatre Production of 
THE 

FIFTH 
SUN 
by Nicholas A Patricca 
Directed by Frederic Syburg 
Wednesday, February 25, 8:10 pm 
Thursday, february 26, 8:10 pm 
friday, February 27, 8:10pm 
Saturday, february 28, 8:10 pm 
Sunday, March 1, 3:10 pm 
WA5HINOTON HALL 
$3 General Admission $2 Students. Senior CIUzens 
available Wednesday, Thuooay, Sunday 
Washington Hall Ticket Orflce 12 noon-6 pm weekdays Master CartWisa orders: 239-5957 



Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 4 
The Observer 
Witness recalls horrors of death camp at Nazi trial 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -A trial wit­ness recounted the horrors of Treblinka Tuesday and the brutal role played by "Ivan the Terrible," the death camp guard who Is­rael says later became Ohio autoworker John Demjan­juk. 
Yitzhak Arad said Ivan and another Ukrainian-born Nazi guard named Nicolai "used to stand near the en­trance (of the gas cham­bers), driving the Jews to their deaths under a shower of blows and beatings . . . using bayonets or metal bars or whatever was avail­able." 
Demjanjuk, wearing the same brown suit he has worn at all his court appearances since his extradition to Is­rael one year ago, listened to Arad's testimony without showing emotion. It was the second day of his trial. 
He leaned forward at times, fiddling with his ear­phones through which he heard a simultaneous trans­lation from Hebrew into En­glish. Occasionally he yawned. 

Demjanjuk, retired now and stripped of his U.S. citizenship, says he is not Ivan the Terrible and never was at Treblinka. 
Arad, whose entire family was killed in the Holocaust, wrote a book on Treblinka and is director of the Y ad Vashem Holocaust Museum. 
He said he came across Ivan the Terrible's name in the testimony of Treblinka survivors and of Nazi SS guards tried in Duesseldorf, Germany. 
"We encountered the names of two Ukrainians, Ivan who was nicknamed 'the Terrible' and Nicolai," Arad said. "They were des­cribed as operating the motors of the gas cham­bers." 
About 850,000 victims, mostly Polish Jews, were gassed to death at Treblinka in Nazi-occupied Poland in 1942-43 during World War II. 
In a 26-page indictment, Demjanjuk is charged with "crimes against the Jewish people, crimes against humanity, war crimes.'' 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the follow­ing position: 
Inventory and Supply Manager 
Questions should be directed to Melissa Warnke or Mark Mclaughlin. Applications are due by February 19 at 5:00p.m. 
Production Experience Preferred 

Psychiatrist: surrogate didn't mean threats 
Associated Press 
HACKENSACK, N.J.-A sur­rogate mother who threatened to kill herself and her baby didn't mean it and was simply using "any weapon that she had handy" to keep the biolog­ical father from taking her daughter, a psychiatrist tes­tified Tuesday. 
Mary Beth Whitehead had no intention of carrying out the threats made in a telephone call to William Stern in July, Donald Klein, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia Uni­versity, testified as the trial over the fate of "Baby M" resumed after a six-day recess. 
Klein disputed reports that said Whitehead suffers from mental problems and would be an unfit parent. Those reports, he said, are inaccurate because they look at her only during a difficult period in her life. 

"Whitehead is in a terrible fix right now,'' said Klein, who was called by Whitehead's at­torneys to testify in the un­precedented custody trial over the 11-month-old baby. 
Klein was the first expert wit­ness to disagree with the three reports prepared by mental health professionals hired by the baby's court-appointed guardian, Lorraine Abraham. 
Abraham has said she relied on the reports in recommend­ing that Whitehead be denied custody and visitation rights immediately and that the baby be reared by Stern and his wife, Elizabeth. 
The Tenafly couple hired Whitehead to be artificially in­seminated with Stern's sperm and bear them a baby. Mter the child's March 27 birth, however, the 29-year-old Brick Township homemaker changed her mind, turned down the 

cordiallr inrites Seniors to tile Unirersitr Club on Thursday, l<cbruary 19th at 7:00 P.l\1. 
Meet our executives and enioy refreshments. Tell us about your career goofs and hear about the exciting Executive Development Program at Lord & Taylor, 
America's leading fashion specialty store. Even if you have not previously thought of retailing as o career, 
you may want to know about 
the many interesting opportunities at Lord & Taylor. If you have proven abilities and 
o record of achievement and look forward to the challenge of managing o profitable business, 
Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you. 
~~~STUDENTJ\C~T~I~V~IT~I~E~S~B~O~A~R~D~~~ 



University of Notre Dame 
presents 

SPRIN6 BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
RiSht on the beach * Right in the middle olthe St,ip 
1st deposit Deadline: Feb 20! 
• To Sign Up Call 239-7757 
Driving Packape Ja 189
Without Transportation~ ~ Quad Occupancy ... 

.Full Packape t J-219
With Transportation  ~  
Quad Occu~B~cv  
March 13-22, 1987  

YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: 
• 
Seven nights accommodations at the totally new Riviera Resort Hotel. located right in the middle of the stnp at 505 North Atlantic (AlA). This hotel has been totally reno­vated. making it one of the nicest hotels in the m1ddle of the strip. The Riviera has agreat cafe restaurant. one of the nicest pool decks anywhere. pool bar. and a night­club. Available are hotel rooms for four people and SUites that sleep six (with kitchenette) Both have air condition­ing. color TV. and great new furnishings. 

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury high­way coaches to Ft. Lauderdale. Florida leaving Friday. March 13. Unlike others. we use the newest style buses available. 

• 
Pool deck parties every other day. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts for you to use to save money at places you would go anyway. 

• 
The services of full time travel representatives available da1ly to throw parties and take good care of you. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. NOTRE 


Arrangements by 
ECHO TRAVEL INC. 

money and fled to Florida with the infant. 
The child--called Sara by the Whiteheads and Melissa by the Sterns --is in the temporary custody of the Sterns. 
Superior Court Judge Harvey Sorkow, the first in the nation asked to rule on the controver­sial practice of surrogate mot­herhood, will decide the con­
tract's  validity  as  well  as  
custody.  
In  the  three  reports  and  

profiles, Whitehead was portrayed as narcissistic, im­pulsive, immature and of below-average intelligence. 
Some of those characteris­tics led her to threaten to kill herself and the baby, another expert witness has testified. 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 

Private suburban Setting just 10 minutes from campus. 
You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. beautiful setting is of the Isle. Maple provides professors 
~en!lpiC)yees, graduate 
1st:ua~en1~s and administr retreat from campus. 


In addition we offer you a special discount. 

apartments being 
through Spring '87 
~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
~ 

asher & Dryer in ~~"-"""'.. apartment !tercom entrances 
~ . d
Reasonably pnce 

~ 
Earthtone Interiors 

•call for details about your discount 

277-3731 

models and clubhouse open daily 
• ..._ ' t I < ; ' ~ { • • • f -~ 
The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 5 


New student activities director is glad to be working with a 'high caliber of students' 
By KATIE SULLIVAN ment right away," he said. in activities because it's not 
Staff Reporter Cassidy, most recently the a 9-to-5 job, it's more like 60 
Coordinator of Student Ac­hours a week. This job has 
Although he didn't tivities at Lehigh Univer­to keep me young because 
graduate from Notre Dame, sity, will oversee more than I'm working with young 
the new Director of Student 120 student organizations, in adults everyday. People I 
Activities Joseph Cassidy addition to LaFortune Stu­graduated with from college 
said he has always wanted dent Center, the Alumni think I'm nuts. They're all 
to be part of the University Senior club and Stepan cen­CPA's. I really enjoy my 
and is fortunate to be ter. work from day to day. I don't 
working with such a "high Cassidy said his first proj­know if I could say that 
caliber of students." ect will be to complete the about all of them." 
"I didn't graduate from renovation of the student Cassidy said he wants 
Notre Dame, but I'm Irish center. "LaFortune is al­each student to know he will Catholic, and I've always most completed. Right now have an open door. He said wanted to be part of this in­I have to work on furnishing he encourages students to stitution. The staff I have to the remaining rooms and come forth with new ideas work with is incredible. making the student office and suggestions to improveThey give 110 percent," he space functional. I will also the social life on campus.said. be working on painting and "There is always room for 
Cassidy replaces Joni reflooring the Alumni Senior improvement, and the stu­Neal, who vacated her posi­Club, which will be done in dents can help in tion on January 16. conjunction with the Special everyway,'' he said. 
"I'm basically going to Olympics." pick up where the last direc­The 25-year-old Cassidy Cassidy received his bac­tor left off. Things were left said he feels his age to be a calaureate education at Bel­in excellent condition. I have definite asset for the job. "It larmine College in Louis­no major changes to imple-takes a lot of energy to work ville, Ky. 


Professor says we must continue to protest 
By MARK C. DICKINSON Senior Staff Reporter 
Americans must continue to protest apartheid in South Africa according to Howard University professor Dr. Mary Francis Berry.~ 
During a lecture in the Li­brary Auditorium last night, Berry said that despite U.S. sanctions and the change in the American attitude toward apartheid, "Freedom has not come to the people of South Africa," and added, "I don't know when it will come." 
A member of the steering committee for the Free South African Movement, Berry said Congress has responded to apartheid with "sanctions legislation " but she feels the measures aren't strong enough. 
She also called recent U.S. business disinvestment from South Africa "phoney, play like 


This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to
$ 
the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. 
For just $89 round trip, you and your friends 

will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes. 

~GO GREYHOUND 
~Aixfleavethe driving to us~ 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and Olher participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Offer effective 1Jl/'ifl through 4130/'ifl. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. C> 19'ifl Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
disinvestment.'' Berry said 
U.S. companies leave the country but they still sell their products through local workers. 
A professor of history and 
law, Berry said the Free South 
African Movement has pro­
posed that Congress take a fur­
ther step against apartheid by 
providing economic aid to 
neighboring states industrially 
dependent on South Mrica. "If 
we can make the front line 
states independent of South 
Africa. . . it will be another 
death blow to the regime in 
South Africa." 

The group has also called for 
Japan, Great Britain, West 
Germany, Israel and other 
countries to join in multilateral 
sanctions against South Mrica. 
Berry calls sanctions "short 
term pain for long term gain." 
"It is not correct to say that 
there have been no changes in­
stigated by the regime in South 
Mrica," said Berry, referring 
to new government measures 
allowing interracial marriages 
and the sale of alcohol to hotel 
and restaurant guests regard­
less of race. Yet she called 
these measures ''petty apar­
theid." 

Berry said it is important 
that the apartheid issue remain 
visible in the media. The South 
African government thinks it 
can eliminate opposition to its 
policies by censoring the 
country's press, she said. 

Berry asked Americans to continue to fight apartheid by writing letters and sending telegrams to local legislators, but she said "We have our work 
cut out for us." 
Berry's lecture was co­sponsered by Black Studies at Notre Dame, Oaklawn Center and the Decio Foundation. 




Election 
continued/rom page 1 

Brennan said the elections 
showed a "good turn-out" with 
a total of 3,711 valid votes being 
cast, a figure which roughly 
parallels that of last year's stu­
dent participation. 
All 24 dorms were won by 
either Cooke, Willis or 
Rodgers. In all Cooke was sup­
ported by 18 dorms and Willis 
by 4. Rodgers won 2 halls as 
well as the off-campus vote. 
Grace and Breen-Phillips 
supported their home candi­
dates Cooke and Bink, while 
Willis and Nonnenkamp held 
Zahm and Badin, their home 
dorms. Cooke and Bink carried the remaining dorms, with the exception of Walsh and Lyons, which went to Willis and Non­nenkamp, and Fisher and Dil­lon, home strongholds of Rodgers and Eckelkamp. 

Although acknowledging that "we're excited about the results," the frontrunner Cooke said, "It's a whole new election. Everyone is even again in the upcoming run-off?' 
Willis, who with running mate Cathy Nonnenkamp will oppose them in the upcoming run-off election said," I hope people who voted for other can­didates will realize we are the most experienced ticket with good ideas and a plan for im­plementing them.'' 
Rodgers said he had no com­ment except that "We wish the candidates a lot of luck." 





~ 
The Observer 
.-:.;·:·: .. 
I, 

Star Wars deployment decision to be early 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Reagan administration told Congress on Tuesday that it is moving to an early decision on whether to deploy Star Wars technology in space and defended as legal a key part of its controversial re­search program. 
President Reagan, in a letter to congressional leaders ac­companying an administration report on adherence with arms control treaties, also at­tempted to assure Congress that the United States is abiding by its arms control pacts amid Soviet charges of 
U.S. treaty violations. 
Reagan administration critics--and Soviet leader Mik­hail Gorbachev --have assailed the administration's move toward a so-called "broad" in­terpretation of the 1972 Anti­ballistic Missile Treaty. 
Such an interpretation of the pact, which limits the testing and deployment of missile defenses, would permit a wider range of experiments under Reagan's space-based Strate­gic Defense Initiative, better known as Star Wars. 
Although Reagan has deter­mined that his broad interpre­tation of the pact is legally sound, the administration has held to the more restrictive view of the treaty so far in its anti-missile testing. 
The Reagan administration also said it had informed the Soviet Union that a broad in­terpretation of the treaty was "fully justified." 
Charles Redman, the State Department spokesman, said Soviet negotiators had "solicited our views" on several occasions at the arms control talks in Geneva. "We've responded by explain­ing the broad interpretation and why we believe it is fully justified," the U.S. official said. 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said Tuesday that the Pentagon is putting to­gether a list of Star Wars ex­periments which could go ahead under the so-called "broad" interpretation but which would be banned by the "narrow" view of the pact. 
That list will likely be sent to Reagan within a couple of weeks, Weinberger told the Senate Armed Services Com­mittee. 
He also defended Reagan's right to interpret the treaty, despite what Congress thought it was approving when it adopted the pact more than a decade ago. 
"The president is perfectly within his constitutional and le­gal rights to interpret the treaty," said Weinberger. 
"This president is not unilater­to negotiate new arms control ally changing the interpreta­pacts with the Soviets. Casting tion or the meaning. He is the two negative votes were stating what he feels was the Sens. William Proxmire, D­meaning of the treaty from the Wis., and Jesse Helms, R-N.C. beginning." Noting in his letter that the 
Meantime, the Senate voted United States has complained 93-2 approval on a resolution before about Soviet treaty vio­voicing the chamber's "full lations, Reagan said, "These su " for Reagan's attempt concerns remain." 



WHEN YOU NEED IT BAD 



WE DEliVER.· 
'tOceanfront accommodations for 8 beautiful days and ! ~ild nights, providing air conditioning, color TV, telephone, sw1mm1ng pool and sun deck. All of our hotels are located directly on the beach. 
:toptional kitchenettes available (first come, first serve basis). 
.., 

,.. Free pool deck parties.
'tFood, merchandise and service discounts provided by local merchants to Inter-Campus Programs trip participants. 
~ Computerized central reservation system to insure accuracy and organization.
'tFull time staff on location to serve your needs during your stay. 
__.........., COMPLETE PACKAGE 
'ALL TAXES. TIPS AND SERVICE CHARGES INCLUDED 

ROOM PACKAGE (4 Per Room) (INCLUDES ALL OF THE ABOVE) 
ROAD TRIP: We w111 prov1de round tnp motor coach transportation depart1ng from your campus and travelling straight through to your hotel 1n Fort Lauderdale All buses have rechn1ng seats and air cond1t1on1ng. and wash room fac1hties for a comfortable nde 
OUR HOTELS ARE LOCATED DIRECTLY ON THE FT. LAUDERDALE STRIP 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP: 

Sharon 283-1669 Michelle 283-2939 & Anne 

ROAD TRIP OPTION (DETAILS BELOW) 
Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 6 

Pair of severed legs found by wedding party members 
Associated Press 
CONNERSVILLE, Ind.-A pair of severed legs found in a wooded area during the weekend are believed to be those of a Cincinnati woman reported missing last week, Indiana State Police offi­cials said Tuesday. 
ISP detective Phillip Wiet­holter said a pair of tan suede boots, socks and blue jeans found on the legs had been identified as the prop­erty of Monica Denise Lemen, 21. 
Lemen's father had filed a missing person report with Cincinnati police on Feb. 10 after she failed to report for work at a local bakery. 
At a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Wiethol­ter said family members had positively identified the articles of clothing. Also, Lemen's father told officials he had been with his daughter when she pur­chased the boots. 

The soles of the boots carried markings, which were identified by the same store. 
"In my own mind, I'm sure the victim is Lemen," Wietholter said. 
The detective said Indiana authorities would continue to look for a crime scene, but much of the investigation would be turned over to Cin­cinnati and Ohio authorities. 
The legs were found by members of a wedding party Saturday afternoon in a wooded area near Little Cedar Baptist Church on 
U.S. 52 near Brookville. 

The legs had been severed about 8 inches above the knee with a sharp object. 
•
' 

• 




"ievv~_Q_J_•Ilt wed-nesd~ay,_Febr~uary~ls,_l987~-pa~ge7 
Recent developments may change abortion issue· 
& a a & a . ,. ~ . --.... ---·_ ­
a a ..__ 
The debate on abortion last Feb. 9 was doubly disappointing. Neither Pro­fessor Maguire nor Father Burtchaell discussed the topic at issue: "Recent developments and reflection provide authentic reasons to reconsider the vir­tually total Christian (sic) disapproval of abortion." The positions they took could have been taken any time in the last 1,000 years. But there actually are recent developments that affect our view of abortion. 
Julian Pleasants 
guest column 
On the one side, modern biology makes it clear that a new human indi­vidual begins life when the genetic ma­terial of sperm and ovum fuse about 20 hours after the sperm has penetrated the ovum. This fact alone may not settle the moral questions of abortion but it makes ridiculous using Aristotle's opinions as to when human life begins, as well as the Supreme Court's profes­sion of ignorance on the subject. 
On the other side of the argument, the very latest developments in the tec­nique of abortion change it from direct killing to indirect killing, and in some cases, from indirect killing to not kil­ling at all. This changes both our way of doing abortion and our way of viewing abortion. The newest method of abortion, still being tested in other coutries, involves a new anti-steroid drug RU486. A woman takes the drug as soon as she suspects she has missed a period and it induces a menstrual flow, whether she is pregnant or not. If a fertilized ovum is present (and she will never know) it is washed out intact by the flow and dies from lack of sus­tenance, not from being torn to pieces by suction. 
Other drugs of the prostaglandin class, still being investigated, could potentially expel older fetuses in good condition. Dramatic breakthroughs in prematur~ infant care, such as use of germfree isolators and artificial placentas, could carry them to term. In such cases abortion would not be kil­ling at all, and a fetus would die only if doubly rejected, by its mother and by the community. 
Changing abortion from direct killing to indirect killing changes the argu­ment against it from the proscription of murder to the prescription of oblig­atory maternal care. The obligation to care for the unborn life now becomes as prescriptive as two of the other obligations Father Burtchaelllisted as being uniquely Christian in the generosity they demand of us. He listed love of the poor, the enemy, and the spouse. 
But the official Church has been far from absolute in prescribing what we have to do for the poor, even when lives are at stake. The cost of a gourmet meal, converted to antibiotics or vac­cines for a Central American dispen­sary, could probably save at least one life. The cost of a year's tuition, if sent to an African bush hospital, could un­doubtedly save some lives, perhaps dozens. 
Neither has the official Church pre­sented the love of enemies in absolute terms, while recommending non­violence, especially to poor peasants with leftist tendencies, the Church al­lows us to do our enemies in, even by direct killing, under some circum­stances. It does not spell out how much we must sacrfice to avoid war with the enemy. If we took all the time we spend watching sports and used it for actions to reverse the nuclear arms race, we could save hundreds of millions from destruction by accidental nuclear war, fast approaching 100% probability. While alerting us to our obligation to peace-making, the Church has not spe­cified its demands on our time. 
Only in the case of a pregnant woman does the offical Church prescribe an ab­solute obligation. This is partly because of the understanding that she took the obligation on herself by the act of in­tercourse. But that is clearly not the case in rape or incest, and that is why many people who otherwise oppose abortion would allow it in such cases. But there are many other cases of un­freedom, and situations in which the extent and risks of the obligation could have have been foreseen. 
The above seem to be authentic reasons, resulting from recent develop­ments, for reconsidering the extent of the official Catholic ban on abortions, and for giving theologians the right, even the duty, to discuss it. But whatever happens or doesn't happen to the offical ban, it must be made clear to Catholics that the ban is neither revelation nor infallible. On this point I am sure that both the debaters agree. 
The Church does not make moral law, and its interpretations of natural law are no better than its understanding of nature. Catholics can and must make up their own consciences on the matter, giving long and respectful considera­tion to the specifics of the official Church's position, but also to their own experience and understanding. What we must hold on to is the essential part of the Catholic tradition, a generous response to the needs of others, even the least of His sisters and brothers. 
Julian Pleasants is an Associate Pro­fessor of Biological Sciences, emeritus. 



P.O.Box Q 
Little hope found in homeless and hungry 
Dear Edttor: 
We are not writing this letter to preach about poverty or open a long winded written debate over the prob­lem of the homeless. We are hoping to correct the comments in Marilyn Benchik's column on the impoverished Americans in the Feb. 4 Observer. The poor beggars of Chicago touched her heart and brought her to the clear realization of the American frontier spirit alive and well in the destitute and homeless of our cities. We admire very much the courage of the poor -we ad­mire the guts they have to survive a life not fit for human existence. 
The independence and carefree spirit people idealistically connect with the 
Doonesbury 
poor is another romantic twist to this tale. The hungry and homeless confront daily the problems of survivial, their cares and problems are much greater than ours. We cannot see how a student could actually believe a beggar has more independence than any of us. We have opportunities and resources to ex­pand ourselves as far as any of us ever wished. If you want to naively believe that living on the streets without a fam­ily or friends is independence, than it is still a fantasy you are living. 
These independent frontiersmen of our urban desert are dependent. They are dependent on alcohol and drugs. These dependencies are sickness. The poverty of our nation is the greatest sickness though. Alcohol and drugs might be all these "courageous and in­dependent" people have. Our govern­ment and we, the priviledged class, have turned our backs or done little but offer naive and self -indulgent commen­tary on this very real disease of our land. 
Over this last break both of us par­ticipated in the Urban Plunge, in New York City and Washington D.C. The homeless and poor are not a community full of inspiration and hope. This is not cynicism, this is the truth. The problem of hunger and homelessness is the most immediate problem we are faced with today. There are people going hungry a few yards from Capitol Hill. There are 30,000 people sleeping in the streets of New York city tonight. These acts are neither heroic-nor examples of hardfought independence. These are people victimized by a system that is controlled by a government that is blind to the needs of these people. These are human beings who deserve the right to food and work and shelter. A study done on the homeless in Phoenix found that 91 % of the homeless do not want to be homeless. After working in a South Bend shelter, we know this is true. 
The frontiersmen of America were out seeking adventure. Life on the streets is not an adventure for these people, it is survival. To idealistically comment on the bravery and indepen­dence of these very needy people is to propagate the lies that this country has lived with for too long regarding the homeless. These human beings should touch our hearts, touch them so deeply that we would commit ourselves to en­ding this evil. This would not be another display of romantic courage, it would simply be the right thing to do. 
Julie Maier 
Natasha Lifton 
Off-Campus 


Garry Trudeau 
UM... LETM&

HI, cV&RYONc. I'M BARBARA ANN
[... AND I'v& ALSO 7HANK YOU, 
IXJES 7HAT 
CJIE.O< 1Ht.

IJ()()PST!.JN. [MANACT!lE65, A $PI~­
.PONEWEN51VE POCTIJii?..IAJCJ.l, 
MtAN He'S 
8YI.AWS. I

ITIJAL VOYA~, AJH)A CHANNEI.£R.
;RESEARCH ON IWBAI?A ANN, 
ON7HETA~K.
NHO SP!AKS FOR A/!EAUYI"lll"l/l./IVI....I 
!<NOIAJ HE

t1 ~Of7EtN THAT JlJ5T 
FO/UE, TOO? 
CAJ.fT VOTe.

IN6 21, ~55·YEAR-oW JQAWOR
": /JELINQUENCY. teA V~ YOU! 
.............

._.--......_! HlJNK.·RA.' 
\

~! \ "" 
.--------------=..:....__---=:....__, 



Quote of the day 
"I close my eyes-only for a mo­ment and the moment's gone. All we do-crumbles to the ground, though we refuse to see ... All we are is dust in the wind. Everything is dust in the wind." 
Kansas 
''Dust in the Wind," 1977 

General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimhoft opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1188 

---~~--~----------------~------------~------~--~------~~-----------------------.­



Accent 



Former NO All-American succeeds on anc 
ED TRIFONE children in Illinois, Smyth has and a friend sat in a movie 
\~~!1'1:?}

features writer given thousands of boys and theater and watched .36 movies \·~~~I~,~.girls a second chance on life. straight. 
• !fl~. ~' ., ~· 

K
nown as "the Bruiser" in Run by the Archdiocese of Because he applied for ad­-.~~·t• his playing days, the Chicago and located in Des mission to the University so }"~:. .. 
:":'.,~# ••

former Notre Dame All· Plaines, Maryville's "City of late, Smyth saught the assis­~ .., 
..... j 

American basketball player who Youth" is home for 250 tance of Father Edmund Joyce 
. ' 

holds the career record for abused, neglected, and home­to help him in the admission most personal fouls is today less children who have been process. more commonly called "Fat-placed there by the state's De­"When I came down to Notre her". partment of Children and Fam­Dame, I saw a board with Hes­
Father John Smyth who ily Services. For 25 years now burgh and Joyce's names on it decided to forego a profes­Smyth has made Maryville his in the Ad building. I thought sional basketball career and only home and assignment as that Joyce was Irish and Hes­pursue the priesthood was the he has served the children as burgh German, so I felt lucky 
third overall choice in the 1957 teacher, disciplinarian, and went to see Joyce." collegiate draft. Even though coach,counselor, and primarily, Joyce was very understand­the senior Irish captain led his priest. ing with the 19-year-old Smyth 
team to the quarter finals of For his dedicated service to who spent the 195.3 summer the NCAA tournament and Maryville the Notre Dame Club after his high school gradua­showed much promise for a of Chicago has named him the tion from De Paul Academy 
pro career, the 6' 5" 225 lb 1987 recipient of the Edward trying to decide whether he center felt that there had to be "Moose" Krause award. Only in immediately wanted to enter more to life than playing bas­its third year of existence, the the seminary or rather attend 
ketball. award has previously been Notre Dame and try his hand at 
He realized his limitations. given to Ara Parseghian and basketball. It was not until late "There were many who could Ray Meyer. Smyth will be a August when he was coaching run faster, jump higher, and guest of honor at the club's at Ray Meyer's summer basket­shoot better than I could, but 29th annual Knute Rockne ball camp that Smyth decided 
God gave me the ability to awards dinner in Chicago. The that the Golden Dome was the push and shove. I knew that I main purpose of the dinner is place for him. would be able to play only two to raise money for the club's "I think it was the atmo­or three years until some scholarship foundation which· sphere more than anything else 
younger kid would come along provides financial assistance to that brought me there. Plus the and knock me out of position needy Chicago area students. bond that I felt; I think it's even in seconds." Smyth can relate to the stronger than the seminary Although Smyth never gave scenario of the needy student bond in terms of helping each younger kids a chance on the because in his freshman year out and giving yourself to other 
pro court, he has given kids he arrived on campus late and people. I think that's what we \ another type of chance off of as result spent his first week had at Notre Dame, to give the court. As Executive Director living in a South Bend park. something. If you miss that at of Maryville Academy, the larg­Smyth remembers that in order Notre Dame, then you're just at 
est home for dependent to pass time that first week he any other school." Joyce has felt that Smyth himself is a very giving person.
'f 
"The way that he has led his life is an inspiration to us all.
~ 
I'm sure he gives the kids an
I 
l 
I ideal role model for them to ( look up to." The "bull in a china shop", 
Smyth (circa 1959)earned the label "a I as one South Bend sportswriter labeled him, tried his hand in Speaking of his former coach suffered three heart attacks, 
I football in hopes of winning a Smyth says that "he really has but he would not end his scholarship in his freshman given me a lot of insight on crusade until he formed a year. He played until he was life." more stable Maryville. 
l 
! injured early in the season and Commenting on his star And that he did. Smyth then decided to enter his body player in a 1957 program Jor­
rebuilt Maryville, physically and in a less physical sport, basket­dan spoke of Smyth's dedica­
programmatically, Into one of 
ball. tion. "Smyth is one of those the leading child care facilities
( 
Smyth earned a walk-on spot rare athletes who always puts in the country.
( 
on the team until Christmas forth a maximum effort. It is 
{ break when he explained to his because of his determination His commitment to success I{ coach, Johnny Jordan that in and team spirit that he is the not only brought about a better I order for him to remain in ball player that he is." Maryville, it made him into a 
school he desperately needed a highly respectable figure in scholarship. Jordan provided Smyth has continued to keep child care. When comparing his Smyth with a scholarship while his determination level high leadership qualities to another Smyth provided Jordan and throughout his work in the well known former Irish eager, Irish fans with a sensational priesthood. Evidence of this is Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, college basketball career. His his work at Maryville. In 1971 Smyth smiles as he reacts. four years of play had its high when John Cardinal Cody ap­"I guess we basketball and low moments including the pointed him director of the players are taking over, finally." 
time when the sometimes hot then ailing academy, Smyth Smyth is a firm believer that tempered Smyth chased his was given one year to turn basketball has taught him a lot coach off of the practice court Maryville's misfortunes around about life. following a loss to Butler Uni­or close shop. Although the "I think it's a miniature life. versity. Today the player and institution was on the verge of It's a stage where you can coach continue to have a great bankruptcy, Smyth set out to make either a complete fool or amount of respect for each work. He immediately began success of yourself." other. They have remained working strings of 18 hour It is safe to say that Smyth close friends throughout the days while he changed, organ­has used his Notre Dame bas­years and still lunch together ized, and created a new ketball experience to make regularly. Maryville. In the process he himself a success. 







When students strike 




T he power of the people. 
I have never seen it used to 
such effectiveness as I did in 
the months of November and 
December when France was 
filled with striking university 
and high school students. The 
students were unhappy with 
the projected "Devaquet law." 
Alain Devaquet was the 
minister of higher education 
and, although the proposed 
law was not instigated by 
him, he was linked with it in 
the students' and the public's 
eyes. 

Most French universities are 
public. The only entrance re­
quirement is that one must 
have passed the baccalaureat 
Mary Berger 
C'est Ia Vie 

exam at the end of high school. If one succeeds at this, acceptance at a state university is guaranteed. The inscription fees are very low (less than O!Je hundred dol­lars per year) and much gov­ernment aid is given. When one graduates and seeks em­ployment, the reputation of his school does not play a large role in the employer's decision because at this time, a degree from one school is the same as a degree from another. All diplomas from public universities are equiva­lent --the name of the institu­tion does not appear on them. 
The proposed law would have created more require­ments and a selection process for acceptance. Tuition would have risen at certain schools and the same would have been considered "better" than others because the new law would have permitted schools to put their names on the diplomas. 
The students adamantly op­posed these changes for many reasons. For one thing, many students could not have afforded the increase in fees that attendance at a "good" university would have en­tailed. The school my French sister attends is not consid­ered strong In her field of foreign languages. Had the law passed and school reputa­tions begun to play an impor­tant role in career place­ments, she would have had to leave home to attend one of the "better" universities. Stu­dents did not want discrimina­tion or selection to play a part in their acceptance to univer­sities or in their future careers. 
Thus, in the middle of No­vember, the students went on strike. 
They did not attend classes. Instead, they marched in the streets and protested all over France. Huge demonstrations were held In Paris at the Sor­bonne as well as in every col­

lege town. On one of the big­
gest days of the protest, 
almost one million students 
filled the streets of Paris and 
about 6, 000 gathered in 
Angers. Train loads and train 
loads of students from all 
over the country travelled to 
Paris; one group from Mar­
seille even let their feet do 
the talking and made the trip 
on foot. 
Violence was not a part of 
the students' actions. They 
protested calmly and made 
every attempt at peaceful 
negotiation. The government 
did not follow through on 
their end, however, until it 
was too late. 
On Friday, Dec. 4, 1986, Malik Oussekine died. He was 22 years old, of Algerian des­cent, and a real estatte major at the Ecole Superior d'lmmobilier. Despite a kid­ney problem, he participated in sports and was "quiet" as friends reported. 
A large demonstration took place that Friday night and by that time, the atmosphere had become violent. Policemen rode in pairs on motorcycles; one drove and the other perched on back while putting down resistors with a club. 
It is not known if Oussekine was protesting or how in­volved he was In the demonstration. It is known, however, that he was brutally beaten by the police that first Friday of December and died that evening. His death was at first officially attributed to a cardiac arrest or problems with his kidneys. Had he not been beaten, though, he probably would not have died. 
The police brutality was in­humane, but it appear to have been politically neces­sary. Not until after the vio­lence did the government seriously react. Devaquet turned in his resignation, and the proposed law was withdrawn only after cars were turned over and burned in response the innocent young man's death. 
Just as in May of 1968 when student unrest led to all-out, nationwide strikes and unrest, November and December of 1986 may have also made the history books. On the Monday following Ous­sekine's death, an hour was set aside by most people in the country in honor of the young man. A general strike by some of the major French Unions ~as called for Wednes· day, Dec. I 0 as the entire na­tion became involved in what was now a political problem. The strike did not take place, but a nationwide day of protest against police brutality was held. 
The students united behind what they believed in. For two full weeks they did not attend classes but instead organized demonstrations, protested, and worked to communicate with the government. Friends and family supported their fight. No one just sat back and said, "Well, it is all in the government's hands. There is nothing we can do." 
What a great lesson from which to learn. No matter what the cause, if there are supporters who really, truly have faith in their beliefs and there are enough of them, and they push hard enough, 
changes can happen. One cannot sit back and say, "there Is nothing we can do." Whatever you do will make a difference. It may be a small change or a history-making one, but it will be something. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 10 



SportsBrieh 
ND Athletic Director Gene Corrigan officially put to rest rumors that he would possibly leave his position to accept a job as executive director of the NCAA. Although Corrigan's name has come up as a possible replacement for current NCAA director Walter Byers, who is retiring Sept. 1, 1988, Corrigan told the South Bend Tribune that, "I'm flattered but not interested." -The Observer 
All potential candidates for the 1987-88 cheerleading squad and Leprechaun must attend a man­datory organizational meeting Sunday, Feb. 22 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium of the ACC. Requirements will be discussed and applications for tryout registration will be distributed. Also, mandatory clinics will be held the following Monday and Thursday evenings. For more in­formation contact Tom Swaykus (3198) or the Athletic Office (239-6107). -The Observer 
The Crack Addicts team of Tom Tomasula, Jerry Chandler, Dan Flynn, Jeff Menche, and George Travers won the SAB Broombal1 Tournament. -The Observer 
The ND sailing club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 at room 204 O'Shaughnessey. Important informa­tion regarding upcoming regattas will be discussed. For more information contact Mark Ryan at 3883. -The Obser­ver 
. 

The ND water polo club will hold practice today at 6:30 instead of the usual starting time. For more infor­mation contact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for some upcoming events on its agenda. 
Tomorrow is the deadline for the following events: 
Floor Hockey: Hall tournament, game equipment pro­vided, $15 entry fee. Raquetball: Open tournament to anyone on campus, two 
divisions. 
Sneaker Broom ball: One-day tournament. 
In addition, Feb. 25 is the deadline for: 
Swimming Relays: Hall representation, team meet, 
men's and women's divisions. Water Volleyball: Open tournament, double-elimination. Lacrosse: Inter hall event, proof of insurance required, 15 to 25-man rosters. 
Students are also reminded of the Stretchercise pro­gram, which is already in progress on Tuesday and Thursday, beginning at 5:20p.m. 
Other available openings include aerobics, hydrorobics and the Century Club. 
Registration and!or further information on these activ­ities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in the ACC. 
Trial date set for accused Colt Trudeau 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -A trial date of April2 was set Tuesday for Indianapolis Colts quarter­back Jack Trudeau, who pleaded innocent to charges of disorderly conduct and battery on a police officer following a fight outside a downtown bar. 
Trudeau and a friend, also charged with disorderly con­duct, claim they were attacked by three other men, who fled the scene and were not pursued by police. 
"See his face?" attorney John Moses said, pointing to Trudeau, who appeared in Municipal Court with both eyes blackened and with a small bandage above his left eyebrow. Trudeau also said he had been struck over the back of the head with a beer bottle. 
Trudeau, 24, and his friend, Joseph C. Venkus, 25, a third­year law student from Oak Lawn, Ill., pleaded innocent to the charges. 
1be Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of HaggarCollge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds ·characters per day. 
K-"How does it feel To treat me like you 
Found in Stepan Center: Black Casio jog­THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
do? When you laid your hands upon meging watch. To Claim call J.C. or Brian. 
And told me who you are I thought I was 
NOTICES L...--w_A_N_TE_o_] I~_T_IC_K_ET_s___.
£1193. 
DRUIDS: mistaken I thought I heard you speak Tell Call4074 for robe assignments and wor­me how do I feel Tell me now how shouldFOUND: Small pearl bracelet at THeo's OVERSEAS JOBS... Summer, HELP! 
ship times I feel Now I stand here waiting Thought WORDPROCESSING friday. Call 3758 to identify. yr.round.Europe, S.Amer. ,Australia, ALUMNI WILLING TO KILL I told you to leave me While I walked2n-a131 Asia. All fields. $900-2000 FOR 4 DEPAUL GA'S. 

Stonehenge lives... down to the beach Tell me how does itLOST: A SMALL BLACK PURSE AT TRI mo.Sightseeing.Free info.Write IJC, PO SAVE A LIFEI feel when your heart grows cold." -C
MIL, NEED KEYS AND LD. PLEASE BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 CALL MARTY-1471 MARDI GRAS BALL 
.. ..............................................................
TYPING AVAILABLE CALL MARIA AT 284-4277 IF FOUND. Friday, 27 Feb. 1987 MARIA DOTI This one's for you! The287-4082 DESPERATELY SEEKING A RIDE TO Costume or formal attire requested week is half over, hang in there. Remem­LOST: GUMBY KEY CHAIN WITH 5 ST. LOUIS FOR A FRIEND AND I. TO Need DePaul GA's CJ 1382 ber if you make it; Saturday promises to KEYS -CALL 1 670 LEAVE FRIDAY 2-20 AND RETURN be a real U.H.A.H.
ADOPTION: We're a happily married SUNDAY 2-22. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE NEED 2 GA's DEPAUL CALL STEVE couple (phys1ciarljlsychologist) who LOST: FINANCE BOOK. HOPEFULLY AT x4304. X3366 
J-I just wanted you to know that I love TO MY HUMAN FRIEND: MARK, EVEN
you • no matter what day it is. Thank you JESUS WAS HUMAN AT ONE TIME.
deeply wish to adopt a newbom. We'd ACCIDENTALLY TAKEN AFTER 
for everything • you're the best! Love,K IrS NOT THAT BAD!! BUT IT IS NICE be sensitive to a child's needs and can FINANCE TEST LAST THURSDAY IN NEED RIDE TO GRAND RAPIDS MICH. IS THERE ANYBODY OUT THERE? with 
provide a warm loving home where a PROF. CONWAY'S 1:15 CLASS. IF YOU FOR FRI. FEB 20 CALL BRIAN £4122 two (2) DePaul GAs? Will pay$ Bill x1460 TO SEE THAT YOU HAVE YOUR
JUNIORS! JUNIORS! JUNIORS! SIGHTS SET PRETTY HIGH. KEEP child will flourish. EKpenses paid. Legal. HAVE IT PLEASE CALL X1852, BILL. 
Welcome your parents this weekend with Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect Ride to U of Illinois at Champaign this HELPI I NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA 

a gift from the COUNTRY HARVESTER! YOUR HEAD THERE TOO! LOVE, We carry assorted gift items including (212) 724-7942. Found: a winter jacket, on ACC court Fri -Feb. 20. Willing to pay whatever TICKETS TO THE NDMIAMI GAME ON A BURGER KING LUNCH PAL!
after N.Carolina game necessary. KRIS 2762 THURSDAY, MARCH 5. IF YOU CAN decorated baskets, mugs and tins to be
Wordprocessing-Typing Call 3266 to identify and claim HELP, PLEASE CALL MARY AT 283­272-8827 2 need ride to Milwaukee for NO­
filled as you wish. Make your parents'

3726. 
FOUND: GOLD NECKLACE AT JUNIOR weekend eKtra special! Questions? call ND-SMC SUMMER PROGRAMS
Marquette game call DAN £3691 FORMAL. CALL 277-3835 239-6714 (MAY 2Q-JUNE 19)
LONDON ROMEI need a group of 2,3, or 4 DEPAUL GAs (JUNE 14-JULY 13)Typing HELP! Need ride to IU or Indy this wknd 
CALL 2073 Free Pickup and Delivery 21.!0. Will share $. Call Paul at £2466. 
1ST SOURCE BANK TRAVEL 

Buy or leaae a car. 238-2200. Flnanc· IREL,SCOT,ENG,FR,GER,SWITZ,ITALY.
277-7406 
Need 2 tickets for DePaul game. Will pay NEED TO BUY lng available for all US states. NINE COLLEGE COURSES AVAIL·
$$$. Call Nellie at 3602.

FOR RENT 

ABLE MEETING FEB 24, 7:00PM, CAR-,
MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PRINTER & EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233-7722 Need a ride to Cleveland. Any weekend. ROLL HALL SMC; PASSPORT PIC·HELP ME GET A FREE PLANE TICKET Call Miriam at 283-2687. TURES AVAILABLE, FOR INFO, CALLMRS. COKER. 233-7009. OR 239-4478. 
HOME. SELL ME 2 DE PAUL GAs ORFURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO 
PROF A.R. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272· FALL SEMESTER 6838889 
4 STU TIX. 284-4380 KATHY PITISBURGH ANYONE NEEDING RIDE EAST 3728 
TOWARDS WESTERN NEW YORK HEY LOST TRIPLE! FOR THE WEEKEND CALL KEVIN 2590 THE YELLOW SUBMARINEAnyone interested in work1ng on the RIDE NEEDED FOR JPW CAU LISA I NEED 4 DE PAUL GAs TAMMY 284­
Vrdolyak campa1gn for mayor of Chicago £1822 4057 can call John at 3558 or Kim at 4440 Even though you spelled my name We deliver til midnight daily wrong, I'd still like to know who the hell ERIN MCCAFFERTY Your Sunday night Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free are you?!? Please respond here. M.N. NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. Rax companion desperately seeks til March 1. CALL 4334. 
second chance ... Shall we? 272-4453

FOR SALE 
..... ··········-······· ······················· ·······



I LOST/FOUND I 
CHIMES

ATTENTION MARK COSTANZI: WHICH GUYS IN ROW 3, SECTION 5 
The Saint Mary's Literary Magaz1ne ARE YOU REFERING TO?
What exactly is an udder? Comfortable ranch for sale by owner-1 
Is Now ConsideringLost : Silver Wedding Band at the Rock. mi north of NO library 3 bedrooms,2 
POEMS Major Rewardijose 283-1607) baths-low taxes Call2n·1907 

PERSONALS 
I 
STORIES 

lfs the erotic poet's BIRTHDAY!!! THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR ANSWER­
·················· . ··········· PLAYS PHOTOS
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
Happy day of birth JIM KARRELSI!II ING SPECIAL INTENTIONSI 
RED PLAID DRESS LOST IN STORM OVATION 6 STRING ELEO'ACOUSTIC DRAWINGSCARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE CALL 4055 IF FOUND Peace, love, and squalor ... WCASE $325 277-3621 6-9 PM Submit to CHIMES MAGAZINE 00 MAX
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. WESTLER 310 MAnELEVA HALL
Your dedicated admirers John Crilly says hi to everybody and asks 
that people write to him, 6 Rodman Lane, 

LOST: GOLD BRACELET WITH 2 AIRTIX-S. BEND-BUFFALO ································································ 
GIRL SEEKS lAZ'f BOY...... Mountainside, NJ 07090 NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK?
MAROON BIRTHSTONE ON MONDAY, FEB 2Q-22; $150 EA. FEBRUARY 9. AT BRIDGET'S. GREAT MAUREEN!!!! Thanks for a wonderful CALL 288-7560 Sell your teKtbooks at PANDORA'S SENTIMENTAL VALUE. FOUND, time at Tri-MiL You're a real knockout!!! ADMIRER Thanks for Camp Aiello is planned lor March 5. Plan BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St.
IF SECRET the Hope you'll go out with me again. Keep your lives accordingly. Our esteemed just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342
CALL JILL AT 2n-8390 OR WILLIE AT flowers. They're beautiful! We'd like to 
2n-4481. smiling II!! director Paul Aiello may make an appear­
FOR SALE: 1980, V-6, FRONT WHEEL thank you in a more fitting manner if you's 
ance. Invitations in your mailbox soon.

Kelly DRIVE CHEVY CITATION, 4-DOOR only let us know who you are .... AM 203 BIG APPLE WOULD THE PERSON WHO ACCIDEN­HATCHBACK, $1500. CALL 1682 WHO LOVES N.Y.? LATE VALENTINE I LOVE N.Y.
TALLY TOOK MY BOOKS FROM To the cute girl with the cold ears • Do Construction. Drivers, Welders. Mac­Missy makes our lives complete, DO YOU LOVE N.Y.?
SOUTH DINING HALL LAST WEEK Heah, BOW WOW WOW guess whose PLEASE LEAVE AT LEAST MY NOTES you still have the hinists. Will train some positions. (Up to thru w-you know who? TB In every way we think she's neat. AND MY ADDRESS BOOK SOME­EAR MUFFS S6()()().tnonth) Transcontinental Job So on this Happy Valetine Day BIG APPLE WHERE SO I CAN GET THEM BACKII Either way, please call • Pete 2546 Search (303) 452-2258 or (308) 382-Sending love, we want to say BROADWAY
H--y Abbott!!!! Happy Birthday You're very special in every way. MADISON AVENO INQUIRIES WILL BE MADE. THANK 3700 fee. Lisa Abbott Kaln Bummun heut' But Love, 42ND ST
YOU we'll have beer anywayl Much love, RIDE NEEDED TO IU BLOOMINGTON "SUMMER TECH­INTERNSHIPS: M,D,F,A,F,T,TED BLOOMINGDALES!
Kath and Mo 
BIG APPLE

LOST at JR. Formal: Grey Kuppenheimer on Fri. 2·20 Call Mary Kim 284-4023 NIQUES AND RESOURCES TO USE." Tweed. It is my roommate's and I want PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND T.B. I enjoyed the time spent with you 
BIG APPLEXC 1 AND OCC 3 SMC: WELCOMEto live with him neKI year so I need it DOOGIE I'm coming out for your B-Day. PLACEMENT SERVICES. this past weekend more than any other 

WHO LOVES N.Y.
TO THE FINAL FOUR! WE'VE GOTbeck. FOUND at JR. Formal: Grey Do you have room for me to stay? MARY TONIGHT 8:30 p.m. 123 NIEUWLAND time before. I hope to spend more time BIG APPLE.;OOLERS AND A NICE SET OF POR­Tweed. Call David at 1454 KATE SCIENCE HALL. AU MAJORS WEL· 

with you. M.B. COME. REPEATED TOMORROW. 
CELAIN WITH YOUR NAMES ON THEM FOR THE SEMIFINALS THISLOST: One blue ski Jacket in the pool­TO THE PEOPLE COMING OUT OF MIKE, MIKE, you got drunk Sunday night What would SPRING BREAK be likeWEEKEND. BYO PEPTO BISMOL. OCC room of LaFortun on 213 if found, please THE ELEVATOR: What you did you thought had to be done without your

1 AND OCC 4 RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANScall 2547 or retum to 225 howard. There HAVING A WONDERFUL TIME, WISH "SUMMER INTERNSHIPS: TECH­But we all think ~ was pretty dumb 
IS a Va lentines card in the pocket with YOU WERE HERE! SIGNED, THE OC­NIQUES AND RESOURCES TO USE." What you did after 3 RAY BANS RAY BANS You know you my name and address CUPANTS OF 323 MARRIOTT PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND Might have been p TO BKSTR. BLONDIE, WHAT HAP­want them. You know you need them.
PENED? WERE WAITING. HISPLACEMENT SERVICES. 

But we'll be nice 
WELL COME AND GET THEMI CALL
ROOMATES TIM AT 1801, RM. 324 DILLON!
LOST: A pair of black gloves in rm 222 HAVE AN AWESOME 20TH COL. U can TONIGHT 8:30 p.m. 123 NIEUWLAND Cause you fell through the ice 
Cushing. Please call Rick at 3252 if wear your favorite outfit-the green one­SCIENCE HALL. AU MAJORS WEL­You tried to be bold "THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN"oh, HEAT-MAN, MASTER of the WAVE­found. & listen to your favorite LP-James Taylor. COME. REPEATED TOMORROW. But the water wss cold 
Irish Sex is the BEST! Luv L. You saw the blood appear on your foot, ·have mercy...please... Lost: Monet pearl bracelet at Tri-Mil Ball feeling the pain 
SOPHOMORES! SOPHOMORES! 
or between PE & South Dining Hall. High WISCONSIN BOUND? Need ride to SPRING BREAK '87 As we realize that you have no brain Hey you, how's it goin? ...OKAY. What's 
SOPHOMORES!
on your mind?... not much, well you. ISentimental value. If found please call Madison or any other city. Any Weekend. SPEND IT AT DAYTONA BEACH A hangover Monday you did get Ca!'Mr Is a MAJOR decision. If youx3884. Tricia 284-4036 Contact Campus Rep. 283-4003 That's OK we found your bed all wet really love you. What's new? Nothing, haven't decided on one and feel un­You saw your advisor at ten but can I borrow some toothpaste? 

prepared to deal with Fell RegletratlonLOST: Friday night 213 at the ACC a KATHLEEN HAWTHORNE Mumbling incoherently "The Celts lost 
which begins April 23rd, conelder at­set of keys. They are on an NO key cl'.ain HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! LOOKING FOR A JOB? GET YOUR MADEMOISELLE JANE AKALAITIS:
again" THE LAKE-AS 
tending 1 career decision-makingand have a small penknife attached. LOVE VA RESUME PROFESSIONALLY DONE You have one month to read up on the workahop. Workahopa will be held Please call 1242 -they are very impor­LOUISE AT ADWORKS M-F 2:00-5:00 3rd KEN,HAPPY 21ST YOU WISEAPPLE. subject: Study the Magna Carta. ravage 
from February 23rd through March tant. I'U BE THINKING OF YOU. I.L.Y. AND. 
FLOOR LAFORTUNE those eggshells and watch your teeth! 
5th. Call 239-7338 for details. 
~ • • • I • -t ~ • -' • -' • 
February 18, 1987 • The Observer page 11 


Sports Lists · 
EASIEST STRIKEOUTS OF 1986 
MINIMUM 100 STRIKEOUTS 
at-bats per strjkeout 

1. 
Rob Deer Brewers 2.6 

2. 
Pete lncavig lia Rangers 2.9 

3. 
Gorman Thomas Brewers 3.0 

4. 
John Russell Phillies 3.1 

5. 
Danny Tartabull Mariners 3.3 


-~ 
6. Cory Snyder Indians 3.4 Ron Kittle White Sox/Yankees 3.4 Darryl Strawberry Mets 3.4 Jose Canseco Oakland A's 3.4 
Source: BASEBALL DIGEST Observer Graphic: Geoffrey Sauer 
lnterhall Basketball 
A League B League Major Independent Dlvlalon ACC Division w L Pet. GB 
w L Pet. GB Sorin B 6 0 1.000 Morrissey A 6 0 1.000 Howard 4 2 .667 2 Dillon A 4 2 .667 2 Dillon 82 4 2 .667 2 Off Campus A 4 2 .667 2 Grace B3 3 3 .500 3 Alumni A1 3 3 .500 3 Stanford 82 3 3 .500 3 Flanner A2 3 3 .500 3 Flanner 2 4 .333 4 Grace A2 2 5 .286 4.5 Off Campus 1 B 0 6 .000 6 
Carroll 1 5 .167 5 Last Week's Results 
Last Week's Results Grace 83 over Off Campus 1 B Grace A2 over Flanner A2, forfeit Dillon 82 50. Stanford 82 38 Morrissey A 48, Off Campus A 39 Howard over Flanner by 6 Momssey A over Dillon A Sonn B 66, Off Campus 1B 35 Carroll 48, Dillon A 43 Alumni A 1 over Grace A2 ECAC Division Off Campus A over Flanner A2 w L Pet. GB 
Cavanaugh 6 0 1.000 Grace 82 4 2 .667 2 Big Sky Division Zahm B 3 3 .500 3 
w L Pet. GB OC Hoobers 3 3 .500 3 Stanford A 7 0 1 000 St. Ed's B 2 4 .333 4 Keenan AI 5 2 .714 2 Flanner B2 4 .200 4.5 St. Ed's A 5 2 .714 2 Keenan C 4 .200 4.5 
Zahm A 4 3 .571 3 Flanner A1 3 4 .429 4 last Week's Results 
Off Campus 3 4 .429 4 St. Ed's B over Keenan C Cavanaugh 1 6 .143 6 Zahm B over Flanner 82 Grace A1 0 7 .000 7 Grace 82 41, Keenan C 36 
PAC Ten Division
Last Week'l Results Stanford A 66, St. Ed's A 60 
w L Pet. GB Keenan B 5 1 833Off Campus 61, Flanner A1 42 Stanford 81 5 1 .833
Zahm A 62, Grace A 1 40 Morrissey B Gol 4 2 .667 1Flanner A1 54, Grace A1 52 
Dillon B3 4 2 .667 1 Grace 81 4 .200 3.5 Big Ten Division Flanner 81 1 5 .167 4 
w l Pet. GB Carroll B 0 5 000 4.5 Sorin A 6 0 1.000 Holy Cross A 5 1 .833 1 Pangborn A 4 2 .667 2 Lest Week's Results Howard 3 3 .500 3 Keenan B over Carroll B by 9 Dillon A 2 4 .333 4 Dillon 83 47, Grace 81 46 Alumn1 A2 1 5 .167 5 Fisher 0 6 .000 6 SEC Division 
w L Pet. GB Dillon 81 6 0 1.000 
Last Week's Results Off Campus 5 1 833 1 Pangborn A 54, Dillon A 45 Pangborn B 3 3 500 3 Sorin A over Holy Cross A by 3 Holy Cross B 3 3 .500 3 Alumni A2 57, Fisher 55 OT F1sher B 2 4 333 4 Sorin A 45, Dillon A 29 Morrissey 2 4 .333 4 
Alumni B 0 6 .000 6 
Women's Results 
Farley A over Badin, forfeit Last Week's Results Dillon 81 over Holy Cross B
Pasquerilla East over Breen-Phillips B, 
Fisher B over Morrissey, forfeit forfeit 
Off Campus over Alumni B Breen-Phillips A 29, Walsh 19 Dillon 81 49. Pangborn B 41 
Eastern Confwence Wales Conference Home games in CAPS Atlantic Division Adams Division w L Pet. GB 
w L T GF GA Pta. Boston 37 14 .725 Hartford 30 22 6 195 190 66 Today Philadelphia 29 22 .569 8 Montreal 29 24 7 202 187 65 
Women's basketball vs. ILLINOIS·

Washington 28 23 .549 9 Boston 28 24 5 215 191 61 New York 15 36 .294 22 Quebec 23 28 8 191 189 54 CHICAGO New Jersey 12 38 .240 24.5 Buffalo 19 31 6 192 212 44 Men's basketball at Fordham 
Patrick Division 
Wrestling at Illinois State

central Division 
SMC swimming at Calvin

Philadelphia 36 18 4 235 171 76 Detroit 32 17 .653 N.Y. Rangers 25 24 8 229 219 58 Atlanta 32 18 .640 .5 N.Y. Islanders 25 25 7 192 193 57 ThursdayMilwaukee 33 21 .611 1.5 Washington 23 27 8 188 213 54 
SMC basketball vs. PURDUE-

Chicago 25 24 .510 7 Pittsburgh 21 27 9 206 205 51 Indiana 24 27 .471 9 New Jersey 22 29 5 197 251 49 CALUMET Cleveland 20 31 .392 13 Campbell Conference 
Smythe Cvlalon 
Friday

Western Confetence w L T GF GA Pia Midwest Division Edmonton 37 16 5 270 200 79 Hockey at Lake Forest w L Pet. GB Calgary 33 24 2 229 215 68 Indoor track at Indiana lntercollegiatesDallas 32 18 .640 Winnipeg 31 21 6 205 196 68 
Men's tennis vs. NORTHERN ILLINOIS

Utah 30 20 .600 2 Los Angeles 23 27 7 229 231 53 Houston 27 23 .540 5 Vancouver 18 33 8 194 230 44 Denver 23 29 .442 10 Norris Division SaturdaySan Antonio 19 33 .365 14 
Men's basketball at Utah

Sacramento 17 33 .340 15 Detroit 24 25 8 183 198 56 Minnesota 24 25 7 214 207 55 Indoor track at Illinois Classic Pacific Division Toronto 23 29 6 203 218 52 
Hockey at Lake Forest 

Chicago 21 29 8 210 236 50 
Women's basketball at DePaul

L.A. Lakers 38 13 .745 St. Louis 20 27 10 189 216 50 Portland 32 21 .604 7 Men's fencing vs. SEVEN TEAMS 
Golden State 26 27 .491 13 Last Night's Results Women's fencing vs. SEVEN TEAMS Seattle 25 26 .490 13 Winnipeg 3, Quebec 3 
Men's tennis at NOTRE DAME QUAD·

Phoenix 22 30 .423 16.5 N.Y. Rangers 6, Detroit 2 RANGULAR
L.A. Clippers 8 42 .160 29.5 Calgary 3, Pittsburgh 1 Philadelphia 3, N.Y. Islanders 2 
Last Night's Results Hartford 5, Chicago 4 Sunday Atlanta 107, Detroit 103 Vancouver 4, St. Louis 3 
Wrestling vs. INDIANA

San Antonio 13L Denver 126 OT 
Men's fencing vs. WAYNE STATE

Washington 114, L.A. Lakers 99 

lnterhall Hockey 

Women's fencing vs. WAYNE STATE Tonight's Games Golden State at Philadelphia Gold Division Results MondaySacramento at Cleveland Pangbom 1 , Morrissey 1 
SMC basketball vs. KALAMAZOO

Seattle at Indiana Stanford 2, Zahm 1 Boston at Dallas Stanford 5, Sorin 1 
L.A. Lakers a( Denver TuesdayMilwaukee at Utah 
Blue Division Results Women's basketball vs. NORTHERN

Grace 10, Carroll I Keenan 1 Dillon 5, Flanner 0 ILLINOIS 
AP Top 20 Irish Track · 
Basketball 
Through Sunday

The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren· theses. this season's records and total points. Points 60-yard Dash 880-yard Run Long Jump based on 20-19·18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
6.23 -Tim Brown 1:55.65 ·Paul DuVair 23·2 314 -Rick Muench 
are italicized. 

6.23 -Tony Ragunas 1:55.9 -Jeff Van Wie 22·7 1/.2 -Xavier Victor 
1. Nevada-Las Vegas (50) 26·1 1,279 
1 :56.46 -John Dadamio 21·4 1!2 -Joel Autry

2. Indiana (8) 20·2 1,206 
3. North Carolina (7) 23·2 1,205 60-yard Hurdles 4. DePaul 22·1 1,033 
7.35 ·Glenn Watson 1000-yard Run 
5. Temple 25·2 987 
7.80 -Brian Curcio 2:13.78 ·Mike O'Connor Triple Jump
6. Purdue 20·3 965 
7. Iowa 22-3 956 7.88 ·Jim Varga 2:14.25 -Jeff VanWie 48·2 1!2 -Rick Muench 8. Pittsburgh 21-4 786 
2:14.4 -David Warth 46·5 -Joel Autry 9. Syracuse 20·4 675 
300-yard Dash 2:16.95 ·Mike Rogan 41·1 314 Jason Bennett

10. Clemson 23·2 666 11. Georgetown 19·4 573 
30.39 -Tim Brown 
12. Alabama 19·4 547 31.98 -Tony Ragunas High Jump 13. Oklahoma 19·5 466 
32.0 ·Peter DaMes Mile Run 6-2 -Rick Muench 
14. Illinois 19-6 449 
4:12 ·Dan Garrett

15. Kansas 19-6 355 
16. 
Texas Christian 20-4 330 440-yard Dash 4:14.75 -Ron Markezich 

17. 
Duke 20·5 261 50.40 -Yan Searcy 4:15.7 -Mike Rogan Shot Put 18. Flonda 20-6 202 


50.48 -Chris McGuire 4:15.9 -Mike O'Connor 54·2 3'8 -Tom Kraus
19. Providence 17·5 160 
20. St. John's 17·5 155 51.90 ·Milt Jackson Pole Vault 
Others receiving votes: UCLA 52, New Orleans 44, 
60Q-yard Dash Two-Mile Run 14·6 -Chris Matteo

Notre Dame 33, Western Kentucky 21, Memphis State 17, Texas-EI Paso 13, Georgia 9, Virginia 9, 1 :11.1 -Robert Nobles 8:58.35 -Mike O'Connor 14·6 ·Chris Componovo Navy 7, Kansas State 6, Marshall 6, Oregon State 1:13.0 -Nick Sparks 9:00.05 -Dan Garrett 13·6 -Chris Bush 5, Ohio State 4, Wyoming 3, San Diego 2, Tulsa 2, 
1:16.0 -John Whelan 9:23.83 -Shane O'Flaherty 13·6 -Tim Ehrman
Howard 1. Missouri 1, Northeastern 1 . 

Irish Men's Basketball . 
Through Sunday PLAYER G·S MIN-AVG FG·FGA PCT FT·FTA PCT REB AVG PF A BK ST TP AVG David Rivers 22-21 812·36.9 1 03( 1 0)·241 .427 93·109 .853 82 3.7 54 120 2 39 311 14.1 Donald Royal 18·18 658·36.6 74-134 .552 111-139 .799 116 6.4 59 20 6 16 259 14.4 Scott Hicks 22·22 737-33.5 99-213 .465 35-57 .614 91 4.1 55 47 8 26 233 10.6 Mark Stevenson 22·21 709-32.2 89(1)-181 .492 45-57 .789 89 4.1 30 32 4 11 224 10.2 Sean Conner 18·3 394·21.9 58(12)·11 8 .491 16-22 .727 38 2.1 33 16 1 7 144 8.0 Gary Voce 22-22 569·25.9 35·69 .507 24·33 .727 136 6.2 55 7 9 11 96 4.4 Jamere Jackson 20-0 194·9.7 17(5)-45 .378 10-15 .667 15 0.8 25 10 1 5 49 2.5 Scott Paddock 21-4 250·11.9 18·31 .581 6·13 .462 67 3.2 28 6 4 1 42 2.0 Joe Fredrick 16·0 67·4.2 10·18 .556 22 1.000 3 0.2 12 5 0 4 22 1.4 Tony Jackson 16·0 43-2.7 3-5 .600 3-4 .750 7 0.4 10 0 1 0 9 0.6 Michael Smith 16·0 55·3.4 1·9 .111 4-8 .500 8 0.5 2 6 0 2 6 0.4 Chris Nanni 5·0 5·1.0 0·0 .000 3-4 .750 0 0.0 0 0 0 0 3 0.6 Steve Nicgorski 6-0 6·1.0 0-4 .000 1-2 .500 3 0.5 1 0 0 0 1 0.2 Team 63 2.9 
NOTRE DAME 22·22 4475·203 509(28)·1076 .473 353·467 .756 718 32.6 365 269 36 122 11399 63.6 OPPONENTS 22-22 4475-203 507(42)-1 093 .464 247-359 .688 586 26.6 417 226 43 131 11303 59.2 




SENOR KELLY'S 
119 NORTH MICHIGAN 
S.B.'s 1 IRISH-MEXICAN RESTAURANT 
Wednesdays -MUG of BEER 75 cents 
The bar

free munchies! 234­
Is open

10% off all dinners with NOOMC 
'til 12am

J.D. 
5389 
~~~I 




ND AVE APTS. 
arly Bird Special"• 
Now renting for Fall Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before brea.k and receive a 10% discount Call 234-6647 by Pinkerton Security Agency 
***************** 
;* Happy 21st ; * ~ Birthday ! 
* * 



! TIMMY ! 
* * 
* *!

! Love you, ~ Nan ! 
* *
***************** 
Spring Break FLORIDA 
Studios, 1 bdr. & 2 bdr. apts. Close to beach in Delray Beach,FLA B\v Fl Lauderdale & W. Palm Beach Call today: 305-265-0158 $40 off with this ad 

----~--------------------------------~--------~-----­
The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 12 

Guidry 
continuedfrom page 16 
9-12, but the Yankees and Guidry could not decide if he should receive $850,000 or $825,000 next year. I know $25,000 is a heckuva lot of money, but with those num­bers, couldn't one side or the other have decided the negotiating games should stop so the baseball games could start for Guidry? 
Alexander, a journeyman who has spent considerable time on the waiver list, has nixed an offer comparable to Guidry's. Does he know of some abilities he possesses that he has yet to bless the baseball world with yet, or is he just ar­rogant? Or a bad gambler? 
Stubborn heads have prevailed and the Unsigned Eight, or The Eight Who Must Wait, are out in left field figura­tively instead of literally. The odd thing is that while the four real impact players are out there for the taking, no owners are taking. 
The owners keep telling themselves that they can't use these free agents. Nobody can use a catcher of Parrish's or Gedman's quality or an out­fielder like Andre Dawson? I don't think that's the case. 
Who wouldn't like Tim Raines chasing down balls in center field and leading off? The Dodgers say they are in­terested in Raines but he has priced himself out of their range. How can this be the case for a team that draws three million fans per season? Maybe, if the owners keep tel­ling themselves they can't use them, maybe they will con­vince themselves, if nobody else. 
The owners know they are guilty of collusion in an attempt to slow bidding wars for players going to different teams, and the players know they are being paid ridiculous sums of money. As long as the owners can keep the line on salaries tight, fine. But it 
Mattingly nets biggest award ever 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Don Mattingly of the New York Yankees on Tuesday became the highest­paid player produced by 13 years of salary arbitration, winning a one-year contract worth $1,975,000. 
Reacting to the news from his Tampa, Fla., office, Yankees owner George Steinbrenner hinted he might file a grievance of the award, which surpassed the $1,850,000 contract won last Friday by pitcher Jack Morris of the Detroit Tigers. 
"He (Mattingly) and I were very close to an agreement, but both the player and his agent came back and said they were getting pressure from the union" to go through arbitra­tion, Steinbrenner said. "I'm not sure that's totally ungriev­able. It may be grievable." 
Don Fehr, executive director 
of the Major League Players 
Association, called Steinbren­
ner's charge "patent 
claptrap." 
"This is a bully acting like 
somebody in the corner," Fehr 
said. 
seems mevitable that eventu­ally Steinbrenner or Ted Turner will break the bond and sign a big-name player for big­time money, or another owner will fear they will do so and bid higher on a player to keep the big boys from getting him. It's easy for the players to keep testing the market, but it's not so easy for the owners to keep their wallets closed when a talented free agent is offering his services. 
Either way, the gentleman's 
agreement will be broken, and 
salaries will continue to elevate to new levels of absurdity. 
Perhaps the most bizarre sit­uation to come out of the Un­signed Eight, involves Gedman and Boone. Rumors are blowing around, saying that Boone and Gedman are putting together agreements with their teams. To e'1able them to play at the be~:.ming of the season, each will sign with the other's team. The teams will then swap the players back to their original teams, waiving no­trade clauses in the process, thus giving the exact same ef­feet as if they had signed with their original teams in the first place. 
As with most of the free agent cases, don't you think there's an easier way? 


Stanford, Sorin, Morrissey nail down leads, leave others scrambling in IH playoff hunt 
By GREG ANDRES 
Sports Writer 
Teams scrambled, scratched and clawed for a spot amongst interhall basketball's elite last week. In the final week of ac­tion, teams vied for berths in the interhall post-season clas­sic and the right to be crowned number-one. 
Stanford, Sorin and Morris­sey all improved on their per­fect marks and assured them­selves an opportunity for post-season A-league play. 
Clashes amongst the leaders in each of the three A divisions proved disappointing for each of the underdogs. 
Stanford moved to 7-0 and possession of the Big Sky title with a six-point victory over second-place St. Ed's. Keenan A1 will take on St. Ed's tonight for the remaining spot. 
Sorin, meanwhile, improved its record to 7-0 by taking the Big 10 title from Pangborn. This left Holy Cross, at 5-1, in the second slot with a playoff berth. 
In ACC action finally, Mor­
rissey took out Off-Campus and 
Dillon to clinch the ACC lead. 
One ACC team which will not 
be going to the playoffs but 
which ended the season on a 
positive note nevertheless is 
the Carroll Hall Vermin, which 
strutted to their first interhall 
A-league victory of the season. 
The win was also the first of 
their history. 
The prey of the Vermin, 
meanwhile, was none other 
than ACC-power Dillon Big 
Red. Dillon, unbeaten before 
the start of the week, fell by 
five points, 48-43. 
"We were down by four at half but it was still competitive and we just kept it going,'' noted Carroll player-coach Scotty Lawlis. "Then we went up by five and they got a little rattled." 
Freshman Carroll player Craig Brummel admitted he "never expected it", and conceded Dillon had played without the services of two of its better players. 

It was Brummel's sharp 
shooting, in fact, that kept the 
Carroll hopes alive before 
teammate Bobby Kloska's free 
throws down the stretch could 
ice the victory. As Kloska 
stated afterward, "It was a 
Carroll moment." 

For the Big Red, though, it was their second loss in as many games and it forced a showdown with Off -Campus for the remaining playoff spot to represent the ACC. 
In the B bracket Sorin B at 6-0 was the toughest of the Major Independents, leaving Dillon B2 and Howard to battle to extend their seasons. 
Dillon B1 took control of the SEC at 6-0, with Off Campus right behind at 5-1. 
Stanford B1 took the PAC 10 title at 5-1, edging out Dillon B3 and Morrissey B Gold, teams with identical records of 4-2. The remaining berth from the Pac 10 went to 5-1 Keenan. 
Cavanaugh, meanwhile, glided to a 6-0 record and the ECAC title leaving Grace B2 in second. 

The American Express,. Card can get you virtually everything from a 1V to aT-shirt. Or atuxedo. From Thlsa to Thailand. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about anything you ·11 want. 
How to get the Card before graduation. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. You can qualify even before you graduate with our special student offers. For details, look for applications on campus. Or just calll-800-THE-CARD, and ask for astudent application. The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without IC 


The Observer 

Forfeitures, low-scoring contests mark week of women's IH action 

By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Low-scoring and no-scoring games highlighted last week's action as women's interhall basketball continued through the second half of its 1987 season. 
Breen-Phillips A (5-2) took steps to secure a playoff spot by beating Walsh. In a slow­starting game, Walsh led 6-3 after the first quarter and held on to the three-point lead at the half. 
"Neither team had many players, and we were all kind of tired," said Breen-Phillips captain Carol Cavaliere, "but I guess we wore Walsh down at the end.'' 
Wear them down they did. Trailing 15-13 after the third quarter, B-P scored 16 points in the final eight minutes to win 29-19. Ann Curoe led the victors with 14 points, while Walsh fell to 1-4. 
In a game that was also close until the final quarter, Lyons won its third in a row, beating Lewis B 31-17. Lewis protested the game because Lyons was allowed to start with only four players. The fifth showed up at the start of the second quarter with Lewis ahead by four. 

"We had to forfeit our first game of the year because the ref wouldn't let us start with four," said Sheila Horox, the Lewis captain. "And now we lost this game, even though they didn't have five players at the tip-off." 
Lyons is 5-1 and Lewis B 2-3 pending a decision from Non­Varsity Athletics on the protest. 
The Lewis A team fared bet­ter Sunday with a victory over Farley B. 
In other "action" Sunday, Farley A ran its record to 6-1, scoring its fourth straight vic­tory with a forfeit win over Badin. Three of Farley's six wins have been by forfeit. Pasquerilla East remained un­defeated at 7-0, also done the easy way as Breen-Phillips B forfeited. Farley A and P.E. won't be idle for long, though. They play each other on Sun­day In what may be the best game of the interhall season. 
Other upcoming action in­cludes Farley B against B-P A and Lewis B against Walsh (both games tonight). 

Fordham 
continued/rom page 16 
Rookie-of-the-Year, is averag­ing 11.8 points and 6.3 rebounds a game. At the other forward is 6-5 junior Tom Parotta, who 

has scored 9.4 points a game 
and hauled down 3.1 rebounds. 
6-7 Doug Bantom helps out up 
front with 3.1 points per game. 
Senior Frank Williams heads 
up the pivot for the Rams. At 
6-7, Williams has averaged 11.5 
points and 6.3 rebounds. 
"Paterno, Parotta and 
Franco give them a solid group 
of players all about 6-5," said 
Phelps, "to go with Williams 
on the boards and Pedro, a guy 
who really has given them a lift 
with his scoring.'' 
Even without Sean Conner, 
who continues to recover from 
his ankle injury, Notre Dame 
will work to exploit the shorter 
Rams up front. The 15-7 Irish 
will be looking to win their third 
straight before traveling for a 
game at Utah on Saturday. 
"Fordham beat LaSalle once and went overtime with them in the other game," said Phelps, "so that will give them the confidence to play against us. With the MAAC schedule behind them at this point, I'm sure they'll be trying to make an impression with their three intersectional games against us, Texas and Marquette." 
With a strong efort, the Irish hope to leave New York with their 16th victory -and the Rams still looking to make their marks against the Lon­ghorns and Warriors. 
HELP FIGHT 
BIRTH DEFECTS 


The Notre Dame Finance Club Presents 
THE TWENTY-NINTH ANNUAL FINANCE FORUM 
Wednesday, February 18, 1987-Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
4:00p.m. 
7:00p.m. 

ROBERT R. KILEY Chairman ofthe Board, New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority "Getting New Yorkers to Work: The Challenge of Managing and Financing the Nation's Largest Mass Transit Network" 
PAUL J. SCHIERL President and Chief Executive Officer, Fort Howard Paper Company "Fort Howard Finance: Policy, Philosophy and Major Activities" 
Each presentation will be followed by an informal reception. Students, faculty and general public are encouraged to attend. 
----~----------------------------------~----------..--------~--------------------~... 
The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1987 -page 14 
Sophomore captain 
Durso helps ND wrestle way to top 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Two years ago Jerry Durso thought he was headed for 
,. 
Lehigh University, an estab­lished wrestling school near his own home. Instead, the West Millington, N. J. native finds himself as the captain of a team trying to start its own wrestling tradition. 
"Lehigh was about an hour from my house, and I always wanted to go there as a kid," said Durso. "When Notre Dame started to build its wres­tling program, I kind of got in­terested. I liked the idea that the program was building." 
When Irish coach Fran McCann attended the New Jer­sey high school state cham­pionships, he was not aware that Durso was considering Notre Dame. 
"When we went to the New Jersey state tournament, we were recruiting another per­son. We saw Jerry, and we thought he was the best kid in the state, but we thought he was going to Lehigh," said McCann. 
Durso eventually became the last person to sign with Notre Dame that year, changing McCann's first true recruiting class from· a good group to a class that was named the fourth best in the country. 

Fran McCann 
While the Notre Dame team started to establish itself as a squad thateanwrestle with na­tional powers, Durso wasted no time making a name for him­self in the Midwest. 
The. freshman-laden Irish took Clemson and Nebraska to the final match in dual meets, and easily won the National Catholic Invifational that year.~ The 134-pound Durso led the. way with a final record of 38-9. 
"The thing that showed us a lot was when, last year, he won in the St. Louis Open. Not that many freshmen do well in it, but Jerry just came out of nowhere and won it,'' said McCann. "He won it this year, and he has a chance to win it four years in a row, and that's never been done before." 
This year, as a sophomore captain of the young team, Durso has been able to over­come what could be considered an inconsistent start and a mid­s~ason shoulder injury to post a 25-5 record so far. 
"Early in the year, his weight wasn't stabiliz~d, and that affected him mentally," said McCann. "Now, he's in good shape, he feels good, and he's wrestling well." 
Durso also has been able to 
keep the team's disappointing 
1-9 dual meet record and injury 
problems behind him to con­
centrate on his individual 
goals. 
"In the beginning, it was a 
tough thing for everyone to go 
through, but we're at the point now where we're expecting anything. I don't know what else can happen," said Durso. "It was hard keeping team morale because it seemed every day someone was getting hurt, but at the middle of the season, the coach said we have to start worrying about our­selves and individual things." 
One thing Durso can try to achieve is reaching Nationals ­a feat he could not achieve last year after getting injured at regionals. 
"One of our team goals was to send guys to Nationals, and we still can do that~" said Durso. "Individually, my goal is that I want to be an all­American. It's a possibility, but I have to wrestle the best I can. There are no easy matches." 
McCann is a little more en­thusiastic about Durso's chances at regionals. 
"If he's on top of his game and is up and motivated, no one can touch him. I have that much confidence in him," said 

Durso also has built up his individual reputation, and Notre Dame's wrestling reputation, over the last two years. 
"Durso has developed a name for himself. Last week, he wrestled the fourth-ranked kid in the country, and he knew he had to be at the top of his game to beat Durso,'' said McCann. "Before, when you wrestled Notre Dame, it didn't really matter. You just had to show up and win. We're slowly changing that idea. Through in­dividuals we're building our reputation, and we just have to get more people of Durso's caliber." 
Led by Durso, the Irish go on the road to face Illinois State tonight. Notre Dame will be forfeiting 12 points to Illinois State because of injuries to Pat Boyd and Tom Ryan. 
"They're a solid team," said McCann. "It will be tough to win especially in the condition we're in right now." 
~-···········l~te=~~···········~ 







~ ARax ~ ~ Preferred ~ ~ • Customer ~ • 
: Present your Notre Dame or : : Saint Mary's I.D. to our cashier : : and receive a lOo/o discount. : : US 33 North store only. : 
~ ••••••••.•...(}lf~Jt.~V~.~~7, •.••••••••••i 
Happy Birthday 

Tim ''Gump'' 
Scanlan 
From: LBAS, Cause, Mom & Dad, Mike, Katie, Radar, & friends 
••••••••••••••••e••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

AP Photo 
Danny Manning and the No. 15 Kansas Jayhawks handled Donald Royal and Notre Dame last week, but last night they fell to Iowa State, 95-86, to drop their record to 19-7 on the year. 
THERE'S 5nLL 




TIME TO PREPARE. 
GRE·GAfAT·NCLEX 



6116 LSAT 
Classes Starting 2/21 


The worlds leading test prep organization 
CAll. DAYS, MNINGS AND WEDCENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 

1717 [. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272_.llS South Bend, IN ¥6l7 
HOTEL CONTENTS QUALITY FURNISHINGS From the former AMERICANA HOTEL 

Sale Located in the old Robertson's Store Downtown South Bend at Michigan and Wayne Streets 
Complete Double Beds ........ Only $95.00 Duplex Dressers .................. Only $~.00-$40.00 Lamps ................................. From $20.00 Chairs ................................. From $12.00 
Plus: Carpet, Mirrors, Nightstands, Drapes, Desks, Tables, Sofas, Bath Fixtures, Chandeliers and 
Much, Much, More!!! 
All Priced To Sell NOW!!! Open Dally 9 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sunday 12-5 p.m~ 
UNTIL SOLD OUT/ 
PHONE: (219) 288-6630 

Terms: All items are Tagged, Priced and Sold ·as is where is" on a first come basis Buyer removes purchases Paym&nt by Cash, Visa or MasterCard only. 
. . 
' . ' ,. • . ~ :t -• . . • . • . 

Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 15 
t 

Bloom County 

HCK!~ 1Jic "'Il~ 11NP 
Beer Nuts 
{}{JICK! (}()JCX! 81(/N' 
Til£ !?£() CAR!"£( ANP 
TilE GIRLS ! f.IE'S AI.J?{}l)Y GEmi'IG ()()T OF 171£ 
UMO/f( 


Campus 
12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Al­
coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
12:15-1:00 p.m.: SMC Center for Spir­
tuality Spring, 1987 Series, Theme: The 
Catholic Experience. "The Catholic Ex­
perience and the Fiction of Andrew 
Greeley,'' by Prof. Dolores W. Frese, ND, 
Stapleton Lounge 
1:00 p.m.: General Meeting, Graduate As­sociation for Latin America, open to all who are interested, Lower Lounge, LaFor­tune 
2:30 -5:00 p.m.: Tax Assistance Service, Center for Social Concerns Coffee House, 239-5293 
3:30 -5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, Word on the Macintosh, Room 108 of the Computing Center, limit 10. ISPF Full­Screen Editor, Room 23 of the Computing Center, limit 30. To register call Betty, 239-5604 
4:00 p.m.: UND Finance Club Finance Forum lecture, "Getting New Yorkers to Work: The Challenge of Managing and Financing the Nation's Largest Mass Transit System," by Robert R. Kiley, Chairman of the Board of the state of New York Metropolitan Transportaiton Au­thority, public invited, Hayes Healy Auditorium 
4:15 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, and the Department of Philosophy Lecture, perspective series: Metaphysics. Theme: The Two Types of Entity, "States of Sub­stances," by Prof. Roderick Chisholm , Library Lounge 
4:20 p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Cosmic Accelerators," by Dr. Francis Halzen, University of Wisconsin, Room 118 of Nieuwland Science Hall 
4:30p.m.: Department of English Ward Phillips 1987 Lecture Series, Lecture V: "Words and Sounds in Heidegger," by Prof. Gerald L. Bruns, ND. Room 222 of Hayes Healy 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
..ff'5 Wt.i€ 11J IIV0/!1 ( 7H£ ''I'' 

~RP) (¥{ ( 71£ "A· at:WP) Wf!H ( m~ w· lf.O(Il) IN £fll£K Hl5 CJK H£1(. ( 7H£ "lr ~p 7l} AFT!!? ( 7Ht 7... WJI?f)) WfTHO(IT YOV'!(! 
II MANP NAME ( ''C" wafP). "' Wllfft.IN&. 
\. 

\ 
Mark Williams 
]: .4LJ,.'I~ I..Ui(JfR£P WOW WE tfE~u.:t ])fj) Gtir ALL rTIOSE 
6:30p.m. Presentation, "Summer Intern­ships: Techniques and Resources to Use,'' by Paul Reynolds of Career and Place­ment SErvices, Room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall 6:45-8:00 p.m.: SMC Sexuality Education Council's The Gender Agenda, Theme: Say What You MeaJl!Mean Whay You Say. 
M.E. (Mid) DePauw, Stapleton Lounge 
7:00 
p.m.: Meeting, Toastmasters Inter­national, Room 223 of Hayes-Healy 

7:00 
p.m.: UND Finance Club Finance Forum Lecture,'' Fort Howard Finance: Poilicy, Philosophy and Major Activi­ties," by Paul J. Schierl, President and CEO of Fort Howard Paper company, Green Bay, Wisconsin. Public invited, Hayes-Healy Auditorium 

7:00 
9:00 & 11:00 p.m.: Movie, "Wizards", $1.50, Engineering Auditorium 


7:30 p.m.: Basketball, NDW vs. Illinois, 
Chicago, ACC 8:00p.m.: Meeting, Spring Semester Ac­tivities, sponsored by NDSMC Shake­speare Club, Little Theatre LaFortune 
8:00p.m.: Movie, "The Official Story", $1.50, $4.00 for Series tickets of the entire Latin American Film Series, Center for Social Concerns 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame 

Mostacoli w/Italian Sauce &Meatballs Ham & Broccoli Rollups Tofu Fried Rice Western Sandwich 

Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet BBQ Beef of Bun Broccoli Cheese Pasta Deli Bar 

SAB presents: 
Bus trip to 100 Center this Saturday night!! 
Not a junior? 
Get away from it all for the night! 

Fondue Parlor Ice House Hacienda Movies, and more 

RBR.c~trs. 
"Oh, Thak! You've done it! ... If only we had a camera -but, of course, I'm getting ahead of myself." 



The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Bambi e.g. 5 Verdi's forte 
10 Powder 14 Comic Johnson 15 Flutter 16 Tune 17 Start of quote 20 Snake 21 Author Jong 22 Pay dirt 23 Required 25 Aladdin's find 27 Infuriate 30 Author of 
quote 34 Next word of 
quote 37 Kite part 38 Gathering 
of friends 39 Wander 41 Skirt feature 43 A Fitzgerald 44 Wear away 46 Author Waugh 48 Author 


Deighton 49-Carlo 50 Electrical 
unit 52 Cicatrix 54 Pertain 58 Some are 
classified 61 Tests 64 Roman garments 65 End of quote 68 Med. sch. 
subj. 69 Buenos ­70 Small: suff. 71 Descartes 72 Odor 73 Vaticinator 
DOWN 1 Moshe of lsr. 2 Wear away 3 Chopin opus 4 Hairlines 
do it 5 Possess 6 Window part 7 At any time 8 Abuse with 
words 
Cl1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/18/87All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
9 Betel nut palm 10 Faucet 11 A Guthrie 12 Pseudologist 13 Malacca 18 Negative 
contraction 19 Stallone hit 24 Window 
treatment 26 Purplish brown 28 Feel ill 29 Shine 31 Streamlet 32 Cabbage 33 Verve 34 Mine car 35 Vagrant 
2/18/87

36 Merit 38 Guide 51 Absconds 59 Beach sight 40 Wilander 53 Zones 60 Hardy's pal 
of tennis 55 Chalcedony 62 Stringed 42 Mountain 56 Sample instrument 45 Ornamentation 57 Chemical 63 Br. gun 
47 Canea's land compound 66 Indian 50 Certain 58 At great 67 Presidential language distance initials 
~\~~ 
... ~\ 
~\Y ~~\)0 
~,~a.~~ \"~0
C..2-\"'v \ • 
~ q·\~'




, , so 
~\· EG Auditorium 
Absolutely no food or drink allowed 

----~-------------------------------r~~----------~----­
' ·, 

Wednesday, February 18, 1987-page 16



S~orts 
I t.; 
~~ 
)i 


Irish, Fordham get set for battle in Big Apple 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN Sports Writer 
NEW YORK -The Notre Dame basketball team is ready for a breather. But the Rams of Fordham promise to be less than supportive in this quest when they take on the Irish tonight at 9: 05 here at Madison Square Garden in the second game of a doubleheader (following the DePaul-Iona contest). 
"We always look forward to playing at the Garden, espe­cially since it's like coming home for David Rivers and Gary Voce," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "Having coached at Fordham, I know what playing Notre Dame means to them and that has been reflected in how compet­itive the games between the two teams have been." 
Another tough game should probably be expected from the 13-13 Rams, although the Irish have won three straight over the squad from the Bronx. The Rams are led in the backcourt by 6-3 junior Greg Pedro, a transfer from Michigan State who is averaging 14.3 points and 3.5 rebounds per game. Pedro gives the Rams a three­point threat, as he has made 45 of the bombs while shooting 49 percent from behind the line. 
6-5 senior Joe Franco is the other half of a strong guard tan­dem, averaging 14.8 points and 
3.3 rebounds while also putting in some time at small forward. Freshman Andre McClendon and seniors Lonnie Jones and Eric Brooks give help off the bench in the backcourt. 
First-year head coach Bob Quinn's squad receives help at small forward from 6-5 sopho­more Joe Paterno, the brother of former Irish captain Billy. Paterno, last year's Metro At­lantic Athletic Conference 
see FORDHAM, page 13 

Donald Royal and the 15-7 Fighting Irish bas­ketball team will take their act to Madison Square Garden in New York city tonight for a meeting with 13-13 Fordham. The game will be 

New free-agency system creates wild pitches 
With the spring training season upon us, it seems breaking off negotiations with their clubs the night Some ridiculously high offers have been that the world of baseball should be busy preparing of the deadline. spurned. Horner, the oft-injured first baseman for itself for the upcoming season. Bob Boone, Lance Parrish, Ron Guidry, Bob the Atlanta Braves said he was "insultedn by At­
But this year is a little different. While everyone Horner, Doyle Alexander, Tim Raines, Andre lanta's 1.3 million-dollar offer for one year's work. is still preparing for their club's season, they are Dawson and Rich Gedman have decided to part Now that's the kind of insult I can handle. Some­also keeping an eye on an unprecedented, and kind one calling your girlfriend ugly, or your dog a of silly, situation. mutt is an insult. Unless I'm totally off base on 
Since the abolishment of the "rich-get-richer" Rick this one, 1.3 million for swatting at a toy is not an free agent draft after the summer of 1984, baseball insult. has tried a new system to get its players under Rietbrock Horner begs to differ, however, and wants a contract. Free agents are now allowed to negotiate raise from his 1.8 million-dollar salary of last with anyone they please, including their current season. Hope you have plans with your family for team. If they choose to sign with their current March and April, Bobby. team, the free agent must do so before a deadline, Guidry also was insulted, even though he and which was January 8 this year. If the free agent the Yankees were only 25 grand apart when they does not sign with his current team by that date, parted ways. "Louisiana Lightning" produced he cannot sign and join that team before May 1, The negotiations between these players and little more than a flicker last year with a record nearly a month into the season. their respective clubs have produced some situa­
Eight players have entered the "dead zone" by tions that are just plain hard to figure out. see GUIDRY, page 12 


NO women aim to end losing skid as 3-18 UIC visits ACC tonight 
By BRIAN O'GARA familiar tune for the Irish, who The freshman has held a hot Sports Writer sport a 6-15 record going into hand for the Irish in recent tonight's contest with only six weeks, averaging 15.3 points 
The Notre Dame women's games remaining in the 1986-87 and 5.4 rebounds in the last six basketball team hopes to season. games. During that time, she rebound tonight from Satur­The Flames are led by 6-2 has shot 65 percent from the day's 90-55 loss to seventh­center Donna Clark, who is floor. ranked Tennessee and put an averaging 16.2 points and 9.2 end to a three-game losing skid rebounds per contest. DiStanis­DiStanislao expects Illinois­as it faces Illinois-Chicago at lao labels Clark as a "big, Chicago to match up well with 
7:30 in the ACC. strong post player with a good her big front line, and sees a Illinois-Chicago comes into first step." change from the fast-paced 
tonight's contest with a 3-18 Irish games of late. Last record, but Notre Dame head Notre Dame has its own week's losses to Detroit and coach Mary DiStanislao tough front line to throw at Tennessee came at the hands doesn't dare to look past the Illinois-Chicago with 6-2 junior of quick, full-court press Flames to this weekend's away Sandy Botham, 6-4 sophomore defenses which resulted in contest with North Star Confer­Heidi Bunek, and 6-3 freshman high-scoring games. 
ence leader DePaul. Annie Schwartz. Bunek and "We don't necessarily like "When I first started coach­Schwartz each poured in 29 (the up-tempo game)," said 
i t 
ing ten years ago, Illinois­points in last week's 94-86 loss DiStanislao. "We'll take what Chicago had a strong pro­at Detroit. they give us. I think they'll
I~ 
gram," said DiStanislao. "Annie is evolving into a very want a slower tempo and play 
d. 
"They had Chicago kids who solid player," said DiStanislao. a half-court game."I stayed at home to play. Now, "She has a good even-tempered Notre Dame has had success 1 with more recruiting, (the kids approach to the game. She is with the Flames recently, win­
1 i ~-\ are) going away. But (UIC) has seeing opportunities within ning the last four meetings be­
I ;­
The ObservertGreg Kohs good talent--we'll have to stay games as opposed to just seeing tween the two teams. The Irish 
I 
Junior point guard Mary Gavin and the Notre Dame women's on top of them. They're a pretty games themselves as opportu­look to continue that streak and
I 
basketball team will try to put an t>nd to a three-game losing decent team that, for some rea­nities. If they give her the shot get back into the win column
I 
streak tonight when they play host to the University of Illinois­son or another, is not winning." or the position for the rebound, with a victory tonight over
I ! 
I ( Chicago at the ACC. Brian O'Gara has details at right. That last sentence rings a she takes it." Illinois-Chicago. 




