
------~----------------~-------------~------
DlR
Z1 
SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 
11pus Scene: 'Best of '86' 
L TBRAR.Y
MEMORIAL IN 46556 
The fire escape seems to lead directly into the sky in there's a lady who's sure all that glitters is gold ... ganize and oversee the game. "Peter this worm's eye view of the Administration Building. And Dumon is the representative for Notre Dame. He will act as a judge if disputes arise," Clements added. Goldrick said his reasoning for enforc­
ing the ban is ''the philosophic underpin­nings of such an activity are in diametric opposition to the religious and philosophi­
Arctic air to stomt Indiana with cold, snow 
Associated Press Heavy lake-effect snow was ex­pected to drop to zero to 15 above by cal foundations of this place." 
pected to be accompanied by gusty early Friday. 
Goldrick said this is the official state­Arctic air will couple with strong northwest winds of up to 30 mph and By Saturday morning, tempera­ment of the Senior Staff, which met inwinds to create dangerous wind chills falling temperatures. Visibilities tures could drop to 10 below, and gusty November of this year. Members of theof up to 40 below zero in Indiana this could be reduced to a quarter mile or northwest winds Friday and Saturday Senior Staff include Vice President of Stu­weekend, and a winter storm warning less, the agency said. could produce wind chills of 20 to 40 dent Affairs David Tyson, Assistant Vice was issued for northcentral Indiana, Elsewhere, snow flurries accompa­below, the weather service said. 
President for Student Mfairs Sister Jeanthe National Weather Service said. nied the leading edge of a colder air The weather service said Hoosiers Lenz, Assistant Vice President for Student mass moving into Indiana. 
should keep outdoor activity to a min­Mfairs Father Peter Rocca and Goldrick. 
The weather service said up to 10 The weather service said up to an imum and suggested that farmers "We had two other students not con­inches of snow could accumulate in inch of snow could fall in some places provide full protection for livestock. nected with the national contest whothe warning area late Thursday and south of the warning area. 
into Friday. Friday's high temperatures will wanted to start the game in the first se­
A cold front entered western In­recover only slightly from the mor­mester," Goldrick said. "It was for thatSome cities included were South diana at midday Thursday, pushing
Bend, LaPorte, Michigan City, temperatures down as it moved ning lows as the colder core of the air 
see KILL, page 3 Elkhart, Plymouth and Warsaw. across the state. The mercury was ex-mass hits. 
Administration says policy not to blame for drunk-driving 
''Making (the alcohol policy) not prevent deaths. "It's not just going off campus from off-campus things." 
tighter or looser is not going to "I know the student body is and driving back; it could hap­"It doesn't seem the Univer­Editor's Note: These articles solve the problem," said Fa­waiting for this big bureau­pen on campus, someone could sity should monitor all drink­mark the final part of a three­ther David Tyson, vice presi­cratic reaction from the Uni­go off and hurt somebody.'' ing, it should be up to those who day series that examines the dent for student affairs. versity and as far as I'm con­According to Goldrick, two are drinking," Goldrick said. issues and incidents of drunk "Students choose to either cerned, there isn't any," he incidents in which persons "As far as monitoring every­driving in the Notre Dame and stay on or go off campus," he said. were fatally injured "occurred one drinking, it would be an Saint Mary's communities. said. "Anyone who lives here On the question of driving on campus, due to drinking on 
see DRIVING, page 5
By REGIS ·coCCIA knows students drink on while intoxicated, Tyson said, campus. They weren't coming Assistant News Editor campus. "I think it's a shallow argu­
Accident causes SMC Clubhouse changes 
In the wake of the recent ment," said Tyson, referring to drunk-driving incidents, some the argument that students are students are blaming the alco­
By MARGIE KERSTEN The possiblity that an un­The student must also signhol policy for driving students derage student was leaving a an agreement which states she
Saint Mary's Editor 
off campus to drink. party where alcohol was will be respvnsible for "any
Drunk
But is the alcohol policy to Zahrn Hall junior Michael served has focused attention on person under the age of 21 at­blame? Driving Cogswell was walking horne Clubhouse policies as well the tending the above stated func­"Not at all," said John and early one December morning responsibilities of students tion that becomes intoxicated Goldrick, associate vice presi­when he was struck by a car. reserving the facility. and is in any way or form
ND/SMC
dent for residence life. "The He died 10 hours later. harmed or injured.''issue is not the (alcohol) policy, One of Cogswell's room­Saint Mary's Director of Stu­The student is also respon­it's drinking and driving." mates said Cogswell had atten­dent Activities Mary Ellen sible for "prohibiting all non 
Goldrick is not alone in his forced to go off campus to ded a party in the Saint Mary's Smith said a student who 21-year-old persons from at­views. Several members of the drink. "It's not a logical argu­Clubhouse, which is located wishes to reserve the Club­tending the above event (onlyadministration seem to agree ment." southeast of Holy Cross Hall on house for a party where alcohol :he rules concerning alcohol do Tyson said changing the Uni­the College campus, the night is to be served must be at least 
see CLUB, page 4
not require revision. versity's alcohol policy would he was struck. 21 years old. 
NOTRE DAME 

'"-_.. 
,.,...•. ,_"···~~-·"~;;;~~~·,...J 
The Observer 1 Paul Oeschger
Stairway to heaven? Color provided by Anbeuser-Busch, Inc. 
Assassins barred from NDcampus 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Assassin Game, advertised in Wed­nesday's Observer and described in several pamphlets on campus, will not be played at Notre Dame, Associate Vice President for Resident John Goldrick said Thursday. 
"There has been a ban on that game since before I came to office," Goldrick said. 
In the game, each contestant is given a human target, said George Clements, sales representative for Clark Tegle In­dustries. The object of the game is to elim­inate that target on campus. 
"Each contestant is issued a small rubber-tip dart gun. Once your human tar­get is eliminated another target is re­issued," Clements said. 
"Basically, it is an elaborate game of tag. Each person is both an assassin and a target. The participants have seven days to seek the other person out," he said. 
Representatives from each campus or­
The Observer Friday, January 23, 1987 -page 2 
In Brief 
"It's too late for me," said Pennsylvania's treasurer Budd Dwyer Thursday at a news conference after proclaiming his innocence to charges of defrauding the state upon which he was convicted. He then pulled a .357 Magnum pistol from a manila envelope, put it into 
his mouth and killed himself, dying instantly before two dozen horrified reporters, photographers and aides. On Wednesday, the attorney general's office had declared that Dwyer, 47, would be out of office as soon as he was sentenced Friday in federal court in Williamsport. 
Wearing nothing but a mask, a man suspected of robbing gasoline stations was ordered held for further investigation in London Thursday. Andrew Greene, 18, has admitted to three robberies, two attempted robberies and three offenses of possessing an imitation firearm. He said his stripped-down style was intended to make it harder to identify him. -Associated Press 
Apparently the latest victims of a campaign against liberal Western ideas, the two top officials of China's Academy of Sciences were fired Thursday. A brief dispatch by the official news agency Xinhua did not say why President Lu Jiaxi of the academy and Vice President Yan Dongsheng had been relieved of their posts. Diplomats specializing in science said there was a strong possibility Lu and Yan were forced out as a reaction to student pro­democracy demonstrations early in December. -Associ­ated Press 
Of Interest 
Richard Wagner's "Tannhaeuser" will be broadcast live from the Metropolitan Opera at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday on WSND-FM, 88.9. -The Observer 
The Works of-ArtistsRuth Sinclair and Robert Berkshire will be on display tonight from 7 to 9 at The Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's. Both exhibits, which will run through Feb. 20, are open to the public free of charge. Gallery hours are 9:30a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, and 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. Sunday. ­
The Observer 
Freshman Alcohol Awareness Sessions will be presented by The Freshman Advisory Council Saturday and Sunday. Those attending the sessions will be given the opportunity to lead their peers in discussion groups about alcohol at Notre Dame. Interested students should contact their dorm's FAC member. -The Observer 
Navy ROTC will host an informal dance tonight at 9 at the South Dining Hall. The theme is "Banana Republic." -The Observer 
The South BendWoodwind Quintetwill present a concert sponsored by the Notre Dame department of music at 3 p.m. Sunday in Washington Hall.-The Observer 
Weather 
Frosty's Revenge: a winter storm warning is in effect today, with dan­r.. • . . . •0 ·1 
gerously low temperatures and heavy snowfalls expected_ Total accumulations: 6-10 inches. Tempera­tures remaining around 5 above. Very cold tonight with a chance of light snow. Lows 5 to 15 below. Cold and becoming 

partly sunny Saturday. High around 10 above. -The Observer 
~-~-Ihe Observer-~~­
Design Editor·-··-Mark Mclaughlin Accent Copy Editor············-···-······ 
Design Assistant ..... Tom Schiesser ..................... _........ Gertie Wimmer 
Typesetter .............. Chris Reardon Accent Layout ...... Ann Biddlecom 
News Editors ...... Mark Pankowski ... _.. ·--···---···-·---· .. ··-·-·-··Karen Webb 
··--···---···------··----------··.Regis Coccia Typist .. ··-·····-·-·-· .... Esther Ivory 
ND Day Editor ........... Jim Winkler Copy Editor ................. Chris Julka SMC Day Editor . ........................ Sports Copy Editor .... Terry Lynch 
--···--·---·-----·--·--Theresa Harrington Viewpoint Layout······-····-···· ......... . Ad Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fred Nelson ····-·-----............. Ann Marie Durning Photographer ............ Fred Dobie 
Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
T_be Obsener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods_ Tbe ObKner is published by the students of the University or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College_ Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Obsernr, p_Q. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556_ 
Tbe Obsener is a member of The AssodJited Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Existentialism and teacher 
. . .. . 

teach us to live for today 
"There are two known facts to an existential man: a man is born and a man dies. Between these two truths, a man must enjoy and savor Kathy the rich sensations of each present moment." 
Martin

Kathy Martin. Senior English, Period Six. Ca­thedral High School, Mr. Tom Charnes. May 
Assistant Features Editor 
11, 1983. 


Mr. Charnes liked this term paper. He was my high school English teacher, my friend, and sort of an existentialist himself, living the pres­ent one moment at a time. 
In my timid freshman days, I avoided the halls where Charnes stalked like a bear await­ing the fresh meat of new students. Charnes, the dean, was a monster who later made "trolls" like me kneel in class for whispering to friends. The seniors called him "Pigfarmer" and "Farmer Tom" to his face because he had a small farm at home. I called him "Sir" or nothing at all at first. 
He had a grizzled black beard that he hoped would grow gray to look like Papa 
/1111f:K lv~IMHOLf 
1-'1.3-11

Hemingway's. His hands were calloused, fin­gernails dirty, and arms bruised from swift ~ kicks of anxious cows at milking time. He wore do everything possible today. He couldn't fat­a rumpled pin-striped suit with muddy cuffs hom being a teacher first, and a farmer later from morning chores in the barn, and his fa­in life. There was really only today. So his desk vorite tie had pigs on it. was cluttered with Scarlet Letter exams while 
there were pictures of calves on his bulletinI was terrified when I got him for English board. He graded our compositions in the barn my junior year, and I rejoiced when I got him and gave his cows and pigs names like Odys­again as a senior. He taught me how to write seus, Raskolnikov, and Daisy Miller. When he a term paper and how to milk a cow. 
was with farmers, he chewed on weeds, and words like "Dang" and''Ain't" sounded natural 
I used to go out to his farm in the summers, like the city girl enchanted with the clean air to him. 
Tom Charnes didn't believe in religion, andof the country for the first time. Tom Charnes "all those other 'isms."' He knew death from and I talked all summer about cows and col<>rs the old and the newborn animals, and said that and the smell of home and how warm the sun 
feels the day after a snowstorm while we life was beautiful here and now. But his wife was slowly dying of a mysterious blood disease, 
painted fence posts white. It was a futile exer­and he looked lonely and lost in her pain. Maybe cise, the cows and horses would rub against it 
soon, anyway, muddying the white with brown it was the finiteness of life that gave each mo­and peeling off the paint, but he didn't care, as ment such infinite value for him. 
long as we had fun doing it. I think about Mr. Charnes when I feel like plans for my future are looming larger than 
He told us in class when we studied Camus' the present, that there's too much to do and too existentialism that the hope of some controlling little time. He told me once, "Stop thinking so purpose or ultimate end in life only takes away darn much about the future and DO something all meaning and significance of life in the pres­now. It doesn't really matter what, as long as ent. Of course, college-bound high school it's something. Then be happy with the choices seniors had to have goals. But most of us un­you've made." Nobody knows what's going to derstood what he meant: we shouldn't panic happen tomorrow. about the future. It would come soon enough. Four years and a term paper on existen­
There just wasn't enough time in life for Tom tialism later, that is the best truth he ever Charnes to plan for a faraway future, only to taught me. 
faculty and friends 
Present your 

Dinner Dance
student 10 Tues-Thurs & 
Live Band
receive 1 0% off your dinner. 

Friday,Feb.6 at the Monogram Room 
6 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
Dinner Dance $20.00 per person Dance only $5.00 per person 
,_.... .. .....
~ ~ 

MAIL CHECKS TO: 
-Reservations• 
100 Center Ola 

Marian Cerny Brewery Building TM.-Thur. 5-9 
255_1526 

2918 Caroline St Mishawaka Prl. & lat. 1-10 
South Bend, ln. 46614 
Not good with other promotional 

Oeadline feb. 2 For Info can 288-5793 
offers. Expires 7·31-87 

Do you need $$$$$? 
Are you good with computers? 
then... 

Student Government is looking for YOU! 
The Student Government Treasurer's Office is seeking an indi­vidual who will automate our accounting system. You would be responsible for developing a program to maintain records and generate financial statements of all student activity fee trans­actions. 
See 'Becca or Chris for additional info and application in ~he Treasurer's Office, 2nd Floor La Fortune 12-4 Mon-Fri. 

-----~--------­
----------------~----------~--~----------------------------------------------------­
-
The Observer Friday, January 23, 1987 -page 3 
Curran would still be teachingND to receive $1M if he were at ND, says McBrien for Snite endowment 
By ANN KALTENBACH mission" or theologian's He would not say what the Assistant News Editor license for teachers in certain feelings of the University's the­
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame will receive a grant of $1 million from the Humana Foundation of Louisville, KY, to be placed in an endowment fund for the Snite Museum of Art. 
The grant is to be paid in four annual installments beginning this January. Ac­cording to its terms, the Uni­versity's art museum will use the income generated by the grant to acquire Ameri­can artwork. 
According to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, "the Snite Museum is already one of the University's proudest boasts, and the generosity of the Humana Foundation in­sures that its already mag­nificent collection of publicly accessible art will become even finer in future years. Not only the Univer­sity, but also the countless visitors to the Snite Museum, are deeply in Humana's debt." The Humana Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Humana, INC., a Louisville­based health care corpora­tion with more than 43,000 employees. Among the busi­nesses it comprises are hospitals, prepaid health care plans and walk-in medi­cal care centers. 
The Snite Museum of Art was opened to the public in the fall of 1980, the gift of the Fred B. Snite family of Chicago. THe museum of­fers more than 20 exhibitions each year on a wide variety of subjects. Its collection at present includes some 17,000 artworks. 

The Observer 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
News Department
is hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Senior Staff Reporter 

• 
Copy Editor 


Interested applicants should submit a resume to Tripp Baltz or Mark Pankowski by Friday at 5 pm. 
Father Richard McBrien, chairman of the Notre Dame theology department, said this week that if suspended theolo­gian Charles Curran were teaching at .Notre Dame, "he would be in the classroom to­morrow.'' 
Curran, a priest under fire from the Vatican for his dis­senting views on sexual ethics, said last week he decided not to teach his classes at Catholic University of America, Wash­ington, D.C. 
Curran made that decision after the university's chancel­lor, Washington Archbishop James Hickey threatened to in­voke a church-law provision that Curran said might have spread the controversy to other Catholic universities. 
Catholic University differs from Notre Dame, Georgetown and other Catholic universities, in that it is the only Vatican­chartered college in this country, McBrien said. 
Given this distinction, Cath­olic University requires a church-sponsored "canonical programs. 
"Although Curran is my friend he understands this (distinction)," McBrien said. "It's a different kind of place. 
''If I accepted a position there, I would accept those limitations.'' 
McBrien, widely quoted in the national media in stories about Curran, said he respects Curran's decision to drop his· efforts to teach this semester. 
The Curran controversy, McBrien said, could not have happened at Notre Dame be­cause ''we are independently governed by a lay board of trus­tees ... but this doesn't mean we are not Catholic." 
McBrien, nonetheless, ques­tioned Catholic University's move to suspend Curran, saying, "Isn't the issuing of a statement enough?" 
Although Notre Dame and Catholic University differ in their governing systems, McBrien said the Curran con­troversy remains a concern among theologians at Notre Dame, but maintained, "Our department is as Catholic as Catholic can be." 
ology department were as a whole. He did say, however, "It's safe to say the majority would be disturbed by what's going on in the Church and in theology. 
"Some would be supportive of the Vatican but I think that would be a minority,'' McBrien said. 
He said, however, "We've never had any straw vote on that." 
McBrien said an institution's distinction as a "Catholic uni­versity," has become a trou­bling characteristic. 
McBrien said he disagrees with both those who stress the adjective "Catholic" over the noun "university" and those who stress the noun "univer­sity" over the adjective "Cat­holic.'' 
McBrien said it is a strain on an institution to be dubbed "Catholic" and and "a univer­sity" at the same time. 
Can Notre Dame be both Catholic and a university? 
"I do believe it's possible but not without difficulty,'' McBrien said. 
Group upset by grant to New Energy Corp. 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -A citizens' group claimed Thursday that Indiana should not devote any of its money from an Exxon oil overcharge settlement to the ethanol plant in South Bend. 
Citizens Action Coalition Ex­ecutive Director Christopher Williams said $8.5 million recently approved as a grant to New Energy Corp. should have been spent on energy pro­grams to help the elderly and poor. 
The Indiana Energy Devel­opment Board approved the grant last week. The money will come from $51 million In­diana has received as its share of a national settlement with Exxon in an oil overcharge case. 
"The CAC is not opposed to economic development or get-

Merrill Lynch will be on campus 
February6 At Merrill Lynch, the creative thinking of our professionals has helped us earn a legacy of innovation thats lasted more than 100 years ­providing financial services to clients in Indi­
vidual, Corporate, Governmental and Institu­tional markets. To help us continue that legacy, we will be avail­
able to discuss career opportunities for: 
Consumer Markets Program Corporate Systems Program 
~Merrill Lynch 
Your world should know no boundaries. 
Merrill Lynch Is An Equal Opportunity Employer 
. ting a better market for In­diana farmers' grain," said Williams. "However, it is not good public policy to spend money on companies with little chance of success." 
Low oil prices have hurt New Energy's ability to compete with its product produced from corn. 
"We've been in support of al­ternative energy projects, but there's no point of putting good money after bad," said Wil­liams. 
Kill 
continuedfrom page I 

reason the Senior Staff met and 
decided to re-enforce the ban,'' 
Goldrick said. 

He added that "the whole thought of having a ·killing game, be it pretend killing or any other kind, seems inappro­priate for a Christian commu­nity." 
Goldrick also cited the destructive influence which a killing game plays in campus life as a reason for banning the game. 
"We had one student who suf­fered serious psychological problems as a result of the game. This game caused some real stress," he said. 
The brochure contains a clause which states the contest is void where prohibited. "I have written the company and talked to individuals over the phone, and they have agreed the game on this campus is void," Goldrick said. 
"If the company has already received money from students, they plan to refund the stu­dents' money,'' he said. 
Dumon said he has yet to meet with Goldrick as to whe­ther or not the game will be played on campus. 
The game ends with the top 10 players nationwide receiv­ing an all-expense paid trip to the Bahamas, according to Cle­ments. 
The Observer Friday, January 23, 1987 -page 4 
Marines kill12 in bloodiest clash of Aquino's presidency 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines Marines fired M-16 assault rifles into a crowd of peasants and leftists who were demand­ing land reform Thursday, kil­ling 12 and wounding 94 in the bloodiest street clash of Corazon Aquino's presidency. 
''There will be those who seek to exploit this tragic inci­dent to derail our efforts to bring democracy," Aquino said in an address broadcast nationwide after the slayings. 
Also on Thursday, her peace initiative toward Communist rebels all but collapsed as Com­munist and government negotiators suspended talks in­definitely because of death threats. 
An estimated 10,000 people organized by the leftist Move­ment of Philippine Farmers marched from the downtown Post Office toward the presidential palace to demand that farm plots be given to the landless. 
About 500 national police and marines lined up eight deep waiting for them at the Men­diola Bridge 300 yards from Malacanang Palace's main gate. The bridge was the site of several bloody civilian­military confrontations during the 20-year rule of ex-President Ferdinand E. Marcos. 
As the front ranks of mar­chers approached police lines, they began chanting "Come and join! Don't be afraid!" Marchers linked arms across Recto Street and began push­ing against the front line of brown-uniformed troops of the Integrated National Police deployed in front of the bridge. 
The police, behind long plas­tic shields, shoved the mar­chers back a few steps. But the protesters then surged for­ward. The police fell back about 10 yards. Stones flew from among the marchers. 
Suddenly, marines in full bat­tle dress deployed behind the police opened fire with M-16s, first into the air for about two minutes, then into the panicked crowd for three more minutes. The firing continued while people ran into the street to drag the dead and wounded out of the firing line. 
When the firing ceased, four jeeploads of police raced for­ward, scattering the remaining demonstrators with volleys of tear gas. 

Before the clash, Jaime Tedeo, the leader of the Move­ment of Philippine Farmers, exhorted the marchers to chal­lenge the forces guarding the palace. 
Denouncing what he and other leftist and peasant leaders have called slow and inefficient implementation of land reform, he told a rally before the march: "charge to Malacanang! Let's break down the barricades !'' 
Several young men among the marchers tore iron bars from a gate, and others carried wooden clubs with protruding nails. 
Aquino recently granted land titles to nearly 6,000 tenant farmers in northern Luzon. Heherson Alvarez, the agrarian reform minister, says his ministry is preparing to dis­tribute about 18,000 titles and more will come later. 
Aquino has said the program should eventually provide up to 4 million landless peasants with their own tracts. 
Aquino, who came to power 11 months ago after a civilian­military uprising forced Marcos to flee to Hawaii, ex­pressed shock over the killings. She announced· creation of a special commission under retired Supreme Court Justice Jose Feria to investigate the clash and promised to punish those responsible. 
Pro-Lifers face snowstorm in 14th annual abortion protest 
Associated Press enue to the Supreme Court. in a jar outside the Supreme Speaking to the crowd via a the Supreme Court's Roe vs. When the marchers arrived Court building. But police said telephone hookup, the presi­Wade ruling that abortion is a 
WASHINGTON -Abortion op­at the court building, police had the medical examiner would dent added, "Our national com­personal matter between a wo­ponents carried umbrellas, formed a line at the top of the have to determine whether it mitment to the dignity of all man and her doctor, a few of banners and signs Thursday as steps of the building and in­was a body. human life must begin with the leaders of the pro-choicethey battled a snowstorm to formed the marchers that Earlier, the protesters gath­respect for the most basic civil movement held a news confer­carry their fight for a 14th year federal law bans demonstra­ered for their rally, the snow right, the right to life." ence to offer their side in the against the Supreme Court's tions on the grounds. coating everything except the Demonstrator Hal Brown of emotional dispute. decision legalizing abortion. Some of the marchers, who signs, which bore messages Topeka, Kan., said he had • 
The protesters, whose num­defied the warnings, were ar­like, "Pick on someone your traveled to Washington with Kate Michelman, director of 
bers were estimated at 2,000 by rested and taken into custody. own size." about 60 other abortion oppo­the National Abortion Rights .U.S. Park Police and 5,000 by Court spokeswoman Toni Reagan drew cheers when he nents and was not going to let Action League, said the pro­District of Columbia police, House said 23 people were ar­said, "Abortion is not a harm­bad weather deter him. choice movement's biggestgathered at a park just south rested. less medical procedure, but the concern is the narrow of the White House to hear an City police also reported that taking of the life of a living ''They kill babies every day pro-choice majority on the cur­address by President Reagan homicide detectives were human being. This tragic and of the year, regardless of the rent court. The court last June and speeches by lawmakers, called when one of the terrible toll continues at a rate weather," he said. reaffirmed Roe vs. Wade by a then marched through 6-inch­demonstrators displayed what of more than 4,000 young lives Earlier in the day, which 5-4 vote, much closer than the deep snow on Pennsylvania A v-appeared to be a human fetus lost each day.'' marks the 14th anniversary of 7-2 majority in 1973. 
Club 
continuedfrom page 1 
pertains if serving alcohol)." 
Cogswell was 20 years old. The Saint Mary's 21-year-old student who had signed the agreement for the party the night Cogswell was killed would not comment as to whe­ther she had attended the party, whether she had asked Cogswell to leave because he was underage, or whether she had been in fact the host of the party. 
There is a limit of 50 guests that can be invited to a party where alcohol will be served, Smith said, adding that "an equivalent quantity of non­alcoholic beverage must be provided and a sufficient amount of food to offset the al­cohol." 
In addition to the guest list, the date of birth of each person invited must be given, she said. A list of 50 names was submit­ted for the party given on the night Cogswell was struck, and all were at least 21 years old, she added. 
"We have a list of all students from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame with their dates of birth," she said. 
Cogswell's name was not on the list, she said. The name of the alleged driver of the car that struck Cogswell, a 21-year­old Notre Dame student, was on the list. 
The 21-year-old student was arrested on charges of driving while intoxicated. County Pros­ecutor Michael Barnes said the student has been subpeoned to appear before a grand jury in St. Joseph County Superior Court on Jan. 28. 
Smith said the reservation agreement contains no loop­holes. 


Happy Chinese New Year (Jan. 29) All you can eat buffet $7.95 Includes: soup, appetizers 8 entrees and dessert Jan. 25 (Sun.) thru Jan. 29 (Thurs.) 5:00p.m. -9:00p.m. 

South Bend. 130 Dixie Hwy .(Roseland) 
No such action has been taken against the Saint Mary's student for this particular party, Smith said, because "this is not a normal case." 
There is a possibility that in the future students will be re­quired to hire their own Secur­ity guard to check identifica­tion at the door, Smith said. ''This is still under discussion,'' she added. 
STANLIY H KAPlANEDUCATIOf'.JAl CINTBllTD DON'T COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE  
1717 £. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466J7 Phone 219/272-41J5  
GIIIIAT NCLEX•RN  

Smith said that since the ac­cident approximately three or four parties at the Clubhouse have been cancelled by stu­dents because they don't want the responsibility. 
''The problem is not with the Clubhouse, instead it is that everyone is putting the blame on someone else," Smith said. "People have to make a deci­sion to be responsible." 
The only time when loopholes come in, she said, is "when stu­dents lie.'' 
Smith said she meets per­sonally with every student who checks out the Clubhouse and reviews the contract. 
She said she tells the stu­dents, "You are responsible to anyone entering the party who was not on your guest list. If someone enters the party who is not on the guest list, they should be asked to leave." 
Students needing help can call Saint Mary's Security, said Smith, adding, "It is the stu­dent's sole responsibility.'' 
Security was not called ''to the best of my knowledge on the night Cogswell was struck," she said. 

Students who abuse the Club­house rules are either sent to the Judicial Board for review 
or  have  their  Clubhouse  
privileges  taken  away,  said  
Smith.  

The Observer 
Friday, January 23, 1987-page 5 
Iran arms deal unknown to Shultz 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State George Shultz told a congressional committee that Vice Adm. John Poindexter in­formed him last February that the Americans held hostage in Lebanon would be freed soon and assured him three months later the United States was not swapping arms for hostages, 
an  informed  source  said  
Thursday.  
Poindexter, who  was  then  

President Reagan's assistant for national security affairs, made no mention in the Feb. 28 conversation with Shultz of the fact that U.S. weapons were being shipped to Iran, said the source, who demanded anonymity. 
The first of seven American arms deliveries to Tehran was dispatched that month. 
In his testimony Wednesday at a closed committee hearing, Shultz said he was assured several times by Poindexter-­and also by Reagan --that the United States was not trading weapons for the hostages believed held by a pro-Iranian group. 
The disclosure Thursday about what Shultz had been told--coming a day after it was learned he had told the House panel that the administration continued making secret con­tacts with Iranian representa­tives as recently as December:. -sparked new criticism from members of Congress and a pledge by the chairman of a select Senate committee to ex­pand that panel's investiga­tion. 
Sen. Daniel K. Inouye, D­Hawaii, chairman of the select committee, said he will expand the probe to include the dis­closure of U.S.-Iranian con­tacts which came even after public disclosure of the earlier contacts, the sales of arms to Tehran and the diversion of proceeds to the Nicaraguan rebels. 
In early May, while attend­ing the economic summit meeting of seven industrialized countries in Tokyo, Shultz received a cable from Charles 
H. Price II, the U.S. ambassa­dor to Britain, informing him of a possible U.S. arms deal with Iran for the release of the hostages. 
Shultz immediately took his concerns to Donald T. Regan, the president's chief of staff, and to Poindexter. 
According to the source, Shultz testified that Regan told him he was alarmed and con­cerned about the reported ship­ments while Poindexter in­formed Shultz his information was incorrect. 
Driving 
continuedfrom page I 
impossible task." 
Theology Professor Father James Burtchaell declined comment, saying he already addressed the issue in a Dec. 12 Observer column. 
In the column, Burtchaell wrote "some years back there was a great onset of conscience about alcohol here. There had been some ugly incidents called accidents. 
"There had been much al­coholism.... And what did we do then? We rewrote the rule.... We now have a Uni­versity Rule on Alcohol, and an Alcohol Policy and Alcohol Regulations: thousands and thousands of words nobody reads. . . . "The rule had 
never been our problem," Burtchaell wrote. "The people were the problem: all the hall staff and Student Affairs people who were turning their backs on the drinking scene. We lacked the nerve to confront the students. And we played with words instead.'' 

Bf1UNa•s 
•~\t\'0). Itt
\tt\: ~
Follow 23 South to: 2610 PnlrleAYe. 
SovthBend 
288-3320 
Free Delivery to ND and SMC campuses Spm to 1 Opm monday through Saturday 
Special this month: 14 inch Pizza with 1 item $6.00 18 inch Pizza with 1 item $12.00 
ND AVE APTS. 
arly Bird Specia 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completelyfurnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 
' 
N 
Neighborhood Study 
Help Program 
Organizational meeting for all prospective tutors: Tuesday, Jan. 27 at 7:00 at the CSC 
Encouraging the individual growth ofthe children o{South Bend 
I I 




Tyson, however, said, "It's not an issue of the policy. 
"There are plenty who would argue either way," he said. "Ultimately people have to make choices and I think the policy provides a context for that." 
Tyson said the question of drunk driving is a "matter of personal attitude, the choice to drink and get behind the wheel. .Unfortunately, people make bad choices." 
In his column, Burtchaell wrote, "The Notre Dame tradi­tion had always been that campus life was the responsi­bility of the senior people here. 
"Wherever the students lived or studied or ate or prayed or took their leisure or studied in groups, we were their mentors and companions .... But what counted most was that we were there.... The drinking got bad when we stopped being there." 
Goldrick said that a parent hopes "his children will make good decisions. A parent can't be with his children all the time. 
"There's no way an institu­tion can look after every stu­dent all of the time," he said. "We are presently working with students and student groups as to what can be done. We're constantly in discussion as what will be the best way to go." 
According to Tyson, there is an "on-going review by the ad­ministration of the alcohol policy, the whole student life thing vis-a-vis the alcohol policy.'' 
"It's easy to make simple so­lutions, but they're just not there," said Tyson, adding that the Office of Student Affairs meets every week to review such issues. 
Concerning the question of disciplining students who are charged for criminal offenses, Tyson said "there's been no precedent set to discipline someone for just, say, public intoxication.'' 
Tyson said the administra­tion would look at the case to determine if a felony was com­mitted. 
Now ·ODly at Godfather's Pizza 
Get Twice As Much
. 

For· Your Dough! Ask For ttt-THE BIG V'' 
Two Special Pizzas for One Special Price Only '12.99 
Now you can stretch your doudt even 
farther! Get 2 extra large 15" Godfath­er's Pizzas for only $12.99 (plus·tax). One Super Pepperoni and One Four Topper 
(Beef, Pepperoni, Onio~ Green Pepper). No coupon necessary. 

Just Ask for ttt-THE BIG V''r;A~.rRm~~~ 
(Vis for Value) 1 ~! You ""E •NnRES-rED,., SIN&ING w1TH 
Sorry, no substitutions 

"We deal at a macro­community level, but each case is individual,'' said Tyson. 
According to Goldrick, there is no policy presently on record which would punish a student for a criminal offense. He said the matter is being discussed with students to develop a policy on it. 
"It's my feeling," Goldrick said, ''whatever the policy will be, it won't be retroactive. It just doesn't seem the correct way to do things. "We're trying to search very honestly with student leaders to arrive at a way to respond in a Chris­tian ~ay.'' 
Tyson said he thinks that "99 percent of the campus is good­willed and wouldn't want to hurt anybody. I ·firmly believe that. I'd match our student body against anybody else's. 
"The University, not just the administration or the student body,buttogether,havetoface the fact that tragedy does hap­pen," Tyson said. "You must trust that people are going to make the right decisions. 
''You make a bad decision and your life is affected forever," Tyson said. "That's what stops us in our tracks." 
Executive Assistant to the President Father William Beauchamp said he feels "stu­
dents  are  reexamining  the  
issues  of  drinking  and  
driving."  Beauchamp  said  
the  issues  "heighten  our  

awareness of how mortal we are. We all assume a sense of responsibility for each other. We're not oblivious to each other, we can't be and still maintain our status as a Cath­olic institution,'' he said. 
Beauchamp said he feels there is "a renewed awareness about drinking and driving among students. 
"Hopefully it will not be short-lived." 
"WEll LOOKING fOR. I\ F£\.1 GOOI> \-i0l1EN 

----~----­
------------~--~~------.-----------------------------~----.---....~... 


"ie~~_O_i_ll__t_______________Frida-y,J-anua-cy23_,1987-~pa-ges 
Reagan acted correctly in aiding warring factions 
The feeding frenzy has begun. The sharks smell blood in the water and have encircled their victim getting ready for the kill. What makes this meal even more tasty for the sharks is that they smell the blood of the Presi­dent of the United States. This happens every so often usually when there is little other news for the man-eaters to report, and their contracts at the net­works are coming up for renewal. 
John Hallissy 
guest column 
The reporters at the White House see the network anchor desks as the "Promised Land," and the most prominent resident of Canaan (Dan Rather) got there on the blood of Rich­ard Nixon. Is there really a "scandal" in Washington or are a number of reporters actually creating a story where little exists? 
First, American citizens are being held hostage by Lebanese thugs. Among the captives was William Buck­ley, the head of the CIA office in Beruit. Intelligence reports were reaching the President that Buckley was being sub­jected to unspeakable torture. If Buck­ley were to break under the infliction of constant and severe pain (after all even those who work for the Company are still human), it would be a great blow to national security because Buck­ley knew a great deal about American operations in the area and the identity of covert American operatives. 
Second, other American citizens were being held against their will by captors who have no compassion or respect for human dignity. 
Third, Khomeini cannot hang much longer. The chief raghead is not long for this world, and when his presence ceases to grace our world, it would definitely be in the best interests of the United States to have a more moderate faction take control of Iran and attempt to steer it clear from Soviet interven­tion which is always lurking just around the corner. 
Finally, Iran is at war with Iraq. Iran has the manpower (boypower?) to con­tinue fighting the war but they lack the needed hardware. 
Reagan made a decision to sell arms to moderate factions in Iran in order to help these factions take power after Khomeini, and in return the Iranians would use their influence with the Lebanese thugs to expedite the release of the American captives. Dealing with the Iranian government is not a pleas­ant thing to do especially for a conser­vative chief executive, but sometimes one must swallow one's dogma in order to achieve necessary objectives. 
But enter a fifth factor. The Contras are losing their struggle for freedom against the Sandinista dictatorship. The people of Nicaragua are being repressed and persecuted daily, newspapers are censored, and the Church is being silenced. Daniel Ortega and comrades would like nothing better than to export the "Worker's Paradise" to other nations in the area, eventually to Mexico. The Contras are fighting for freedom and democracy and axiomati­cally for the overthrow of the Sandi­nista regime. Reagan has given them . his wholehearted support. Lt. Col. North may have (remember one is in­nocent until proven guilty) transferred the profits from the Iranian arms sale to aid the fight against repression in Nicaragua. We are told by the news media that this is a scandal that may endanger the Reagan administration. 
Was the arms sale to Iran legal'? It appears to be one of those issues that falls into a gray area. There is no law barring it, only requiring Congress to be notified in a timely manner. The ad­ministration was in a very delicate po­sition with the hostages and could not risk a leak from the very porous House and Senate so it waited to inform them. 
If it can be proven that North did transfer the money to the Contras, this probably is illegal, but it must be kept in mind that North was working as a free agent without presidential knowl­edge or approval. North may have bro­ken the law but he did ~t for all the right reasons. Sometimes rules must be bent for the preservation of life and freedom. 
The result of all this? Well, not all the hostages were freed because the secrecy of the deal was blown, and Buckley is reported to have been tor­tured to death. Both Reagan and North acted morally in trying to save Amer­ican lives and interests. They did what they had to do. Someone should tell the sharks that this is not a scandal in the Reagan administration but possibly one of its finest hours. 
John Hallissy is a senior finance major and the chairman of the College Republicans. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Catholic University holds a special Church, truth is not always an open­Teaching wrong views place among American educational in­ended abstraction. Abortion is consid­stitutions. It is a pontifically-chartered ered wrong. Homosexual activity isresulted in dismissal university, . run by the Archdiocese of considered wrong. And the list goes on. Washington D.C., with the Archbishop In the Church's eyes, Fr. Curran, in his Dear Editor: of Washington D.C. serving as chancel­dissensions, was misrepresenting the 
Father Curran was not suspended lor, in accordance with certain Vatican truth, and therefore Catholic Univer­from Catholic University's faculty be­provisions. Universities are devoted to sity's administration had the right to cause the Church considered his views searching for the truth. At many uni­suspend Father Curran. Itwas a simple on certain issues to be too liberal versities and colleges, truth is consid­case of biting the hand that feeds. The (Observer, Friday, January 16th). He ered to be an open-ended abstraction. hand (the Church) shook loose of its received a suspension from the faculty At Catholic University, run under the biter (Fr. Curran). because the Church considered some of provisions of the Code of Canon Law Of course, in our free country (Fr. his views to be wrong. and the tenets of the Roman Catholic Curran likes to allude to that a lot), the 
D
110.110. _..,...., 
Garry Trudeau 


JOANIE,IT'S A ~tnArYIMUI.A TH;51M~~I
RJCI<, I ReAU..Y FEEL 7DRN 
HI,
T/'1£; AGf;. ~ eor. He'S 
()AJXJY! YOU'/lE.RIGHT. A U77LE $TRAN6ER. PO YOU 
APM:r8Y7HIS. tue'Re AA/5/NG 
~PROBABL.Y

NORMA~ SCPARATION ANXI£;7Y. :::. -rum-? 8AJJY51n7N6 
/ H/,Y.4, JIJ5TA 5TA6e. 
IXJN'T l6THIM GeT 70 YOU 7HAT I trrt' ·. AGAIN 7{)­
KNOIIJ THATJEFF TOUJ Me He 
Kf{)!

CAU£1) MRS. JU/CI:&i?. 
WAY. IT'$ JIJ5TA 
~( I NI6HT. \ 
/ "------­
'itfOMMY 11 700AY~......_ 
'3TAGC.'/ 
suspended priest, with his ability and popularity, could get a job at another college, maybe even a Catholic one. And the students there can hear more of his great theological reasoning that claims that because so many of his pupils agreed with his views, his views were sound. Wow! What a profound thought. 
Michael J. Barron Jr. Off-Campus 

~----------------------------~ 
Quote of the day 

"Never seem more learned than the people you are with. Wear your learning like a pocket watch and keep it hidden. Do not pull it out to count the hours, but give the time when you are asked." 
Lord Chesterfield (1694-1773) 

General Board 

'I'he Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Business Manaaer ...................... Eric Scheuermann
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ......... : .................................... Tripp Baltz Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler Viewpoint Editor .........................C.hristopher Murphy Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Advertising Design Manager... Mary Carol Creadon of Notre D~~e du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ........................................ Mary Jacoby 
Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culliganof the a~mm1stra~ion of e~he~ institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
Saint Mary's Editor ........................... Margie Kersten OCN Manager .................... : ...... ; .. Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column 
Controller ........................................ Alex VonderHaar sp~~e is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt 
op1mons on campus, through fetters, is encouraged. · Founded November 3, 1988 
The Observer 
Friday, January 23, 1987-page 7 


Sports Briefs -___ . -.-. 
The ND varsity tennis teams open their spring seasons this weekend. The men travel to Northwestern to· face the Wildcats while the women participate in the Min­nesota Doubles Invitational. -The Observer 
The SMC varsity softball team will have a meeting for all those interested in playing softball Monday at 6:30p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The SMC Roundball Classic begins tonight at Angela Athletic Facility with DePauw facing Bethel, fol­lowed by Saint Mary's against St. Thomas More. The con­solation and championship games are slated for Saturday afternoon. -The Observer 
ND football managers will have an organizational meeting for all potential freshmen managers Wednesday, Jan. 28 at 7:30p.m. in the ACC football auditorium. Any interested freshmen are invited to attend. For more in­formation call 239-6482. -The Observer 
NVA is .selling used cross-country skis. Sale is tomorrow from 1:00 to 2:30 at the Rockne golf shop. Cost of the skis are as follows: skis, boots, and poles, $40; skis and boots, $35; skis and poles, $30; skis only, $25. If you have any questions, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
The ND Kung .Fu club will hold its first meeting of the semester tomorrow at 6 p.m. at room 219 Rockne. Everyone is welcome and demonstrations will be given. For more information contact David at 3084. -The Observer 
The ND varsity field hockey team will have a meeting for anyone interested in playing field hockey Tuesday, Jan. 27 at 4:30p.m. at the football auditorium. 
-The Observer 

The ND Martial Arts Institute will have a general meeting tonight at 6 at room 219 Rockne. A workout will immediately follow. All interested persons are invited to attend the meeting and observe the training session. The NDMAI offers lessons in TaeKwonDo and Jiu-Jhsu. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club will have an aerobic workout for all members today at 5: 15 p.m. in gym 4 of the ACC (above Gate 3). -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
NCA&Thas basktetbrawl 

GREENSBORO, n.c. -North Carolina A&T's college basket­ball game with Tennessee State was suspended with almost 15 minutes remaining Thursday night after a fight erupted near the Tennessee State bench and Coach Larry Reid removed his team from the arena. 
The Aggies had taken a 55-48 edge on a dunk by Claude Wil­liams with 14:43 remaining. A fight then erupted near Tennes­see State's bench. Aggie fans, Tennessee State trainer Wayne Bell, two or three players and the visiting coaches were caught in the fight, according to witnesses. 
Once police restored order, Reid and his players left the court and he told officials as he left that the team would not return. 
At that point, the game was suspended by officials Bill White and Howard Fellers. The outcome of the game rests with Mid-Eastern Athletic Confer­ence commissioner Ken Free. 
Reid said the police ordered him to take his team off the floor. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid, either in person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
LOST at NO Apt party, one navy CB down male s1nger needed:We play everything Need 2 GA's for DePaul. Call Kathy 284-SENIORS! Tired of having to fight your way to the jacket with light blue stripe. Call Mark at from old party tunes to modem top-40. 4380. SENIORS! bar? 288-9548 or drop at 728 PE If interested, please call Scott at 2289 SENIORS! Sick of standing around in a human cat­
NOTICES 
ITS COMING HAVE YOU FOUND MY KEYS? I WAITRESSES NEEDED AT PRIVATE North Carolina and Duke basketball ITS COMING Bored with bogus bands? Wordprocessing-Typing HAVEN'T! PLESE CALL ME IF YOU CLUB, 12-22 HOUR:'> PER WEEK, games. Either student or GA'a. Call IT'S COMING Don't give up hope --come out to 
·················· ················ ···························· Need Tickets Desperately to both the tlecar? 
HAVEl ITS A BRASS KEY CHAIN THAT MUST BE 21 YEARS OLD. STARTING Ertc at 272-9123. GET YOUR SCOPING GOGGLES ON ..... DUKE'S BISTRO ••••• LOOKS LIKE A GOLD INGOT. MY AT $3.35 PER HOUR PLUS TIPS. AP· FOR... Georgetown Shopping Ctr. NAME IS KYLE. MY NUMBER IS 1223. PLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT AMERI­NEED 1 N. CAROLINA GA OR STU· SENIOR FORMAL '87' (Off Cleveland between 31 and Iron­CALL ME ANYTIME!(IF YOU FOUND DENT TIX. WILL PAY$$$. CALL PETE MARCH 27-29 wood) 
272-8827 
PRO-TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. CAN TURNERS, 53666 NORTH IRON­
MY KEYS) THANKS MUCHAS. 21111 KEEP ALERT! MORE INFO TO FOL· This weekend at Dukes:
WOOD. LOW ' NIGHT SHIFT ' FOUND: Booksto~e bag ol new books NEED GA'S AND STUDENT TIX'S FOR One of the area's finest bands invites 
277-5833 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 from O'Shag. Call Lost & Found office in Students needed to help save lives. MARQUETTE GAME CALL KYLE AT to an evening of LaFortune. Watch T.V. and flllm elC!ra money . New 2036 THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY ROCK, RHYTHM, BLUES, AND PARTY donors or former donors who haven't I
FAVORS GRANTED! WANTED: 4 G.A.'S FOR MARQUETTE ..... DUKE'S BISTRO •••••
Found-a DETEX outside ol Senior Bar donated plasma in the last 30 days will GAME JAN 28 CALL TIM 3240 OR 3249. NANCY HAVE A HAPPY 21st Special this weekend: EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
weekend of Jan. 16. If it could be yours, be paid $11 .00 following initial or return call John at 1706. donation. Bring this ad to: American BIRTHDAY! $1.00 off admission with student 1.0. LOVE, MARK 
MRS. COKER. 233-7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE Plasma. 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. ••••• DUKE'S BISTRO ••••• FOUND: Sum of money found on South 5 blocks west of Burger King on US 201 For directions, information, or to find
287-4082 HELP II 
Quad. Call 283-2344. Lincolnway West. Phone 234-6010. Mom and Dad are coming! I NOTRE DAME ENCOUNTER APPLICA· true love and cosmic enlightenment, call TIONS DUE TODAY! RETURN TO 277-DUKE
Open Tues., Wed., Fri., and Sat. DESPERATELY need 2 Carolina GA's CAMPUS MINISTRY, BADIN HALL BY ..... DUKE'S BISTRO ..... 
SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at Will pay BIG$$ Call Kerstin 4036 PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our new loca­
FOR RENT 5:00 
tion: 808 Howard St.. just off of N.D. Ave. Wanted students with medical back­FALL LONDONERS DINNERS EVERY DIANNNE & BETH Maybe a HEAT
OPEN 7 days a week 10.530, ph. 233· grouno who are avaliable to work 9-5 NEED DUKE GA'S $$$$ CALL STEVE TUES. 5-7pm So. Dining Hall Starting WAVE would help to soothe sore
2342. Bring in this ad and receive $5 off shift on Tues., Wed., Fri., or Sat. Starting 2180 Two room utilities paid private entrance muscles. Come by for a massage some­
every order ol $50 or more! pay 4.25 per hour. If interested bring t-27; cost 25 cents; queries? Gail 1514 time alter skating. MIKE & WILL
one pereon 288-095&277-1254 resume to American Plasma, 515 Lin­WANTED 5 TIX FOR N. CAROLINA 
colnway West. South Bend. 234-6010. GAME. CALL TRICIA SMC 4036. HUMAN LEAGUE!! Have house suitable for 5 students, near Memorial Hospital. Nice neighbor. For in­HELP! I need 2 ti,. to No. Carolina. Call HUMAN LEAGUE!!! CAPTAIN KOSHER-how silly of you! You 
ILOST/FOUND I 
fo, call 232-4412. Bobbi £2764 know I have Emil...you've replied. now 
RIDE NEEDED-To anywhere in OH or HUMAN LEAGUE IS COMINGIII guess!
Western PA. Weekend of WO -VI or 2-6
Large duplex being used as one house. NEED UNC TICKETSlost ... red book bag with gymn11stics gear, -2'8. Will pay $$$. x3566
Two kitchens, three baths.

including grips, shoes, etc. Meets start Completely CAL1.. NANCY 277-5626 HERE? Noll GOOSE furnished including wa&Mr and dryer.
in 2 weeks, need desperately. If found NOT JUST ANOTHER BRICK IN THE 
SPEND SPRING AND SUMMER 1987Complete burglar and fire alarm system.
call 1802 or bring to 1110 Grace. Riviera Night Club. Chicago Sunday, WALL ·MOOSE
IN SUNNY SPAIN!

Will accommodate eight. Call 234-9364 "URGENT" Need 4 DEPAUL tixs FAST February 15 $18 cash--tix and bus $ inQuality Instruction at Economy Prices:
tdsr~···aR.owN···p:Nc;··;:p:,;.;···Ru·ss·,:A:N after live. -Call Jackie x2683 SAB office by Monday, Jan. 26111
Business Administration, HispanicSTYLE HAT. PLEASE CALL 4606. 
Studies, Arts and Sciences. Contact; Ad­FOR RENT: 2 BEDROOM HOUSE MECtiOISE CONCERT Athletic, wen groomed, morally securedmissions, St. Louis, MO 63103 Toll-free 
LOST: Black wallet at Theodore's Satur­NEAR CAMPUS. 200$ A MONTH PLUS REMAINDER OF B-BALL SEASON TIX Sat., Jan. 31 male; Looking lor sincere friendship,
tel.: (800) 626·6666
UTILITIES CALL SEAN 287-6546 Bp.m.
day night. Please call Terry at x 1137. FOR SALE--STUDENT, LOWER Early 20's. Black hair, brown eyes, 165 Thank you. ARENA. CALL £1556. S5 at the door lbs. 5'6" and lonely. I hope to hear from Stapan Center you. Ali responses are welcomed and LOST: Grey knapsack, with books, MARQUETTE: 2 or 4 GAs needed Call apona. by SAB answered. Write to: LeMOINE Arrington, 
notebooks, and envelopes to be mailed JULIE 3602 or 4144 8180981, Box-j49, Attica, NY 14011
......_w_A_N_Te_o___l I.....___F_o_R_sA_LE__.
-from South Dining Hall, 1119. To anyone who has found this or to the thief that NEED GAs for N. Carolina (4) Elisa 284· I don't know what all the people in MAUREEN ERNY'S BIRTHDAY IS 7
FOR SALE--Juki 6100 DaisywheelSPRING BREAK JAMAICA
took it: please return to the Lost & Found 5013 Howerd are complaining about, it's been DAYS AWAY...ARE YOU READY TO
Printer--$150. Was $400 new. 234·7362Project Manager needed 
andt>r call Eric at 272-9123. Especially a girts dorm for years. CELEBRATE MO? GET READY FOR
FrancisFREE vacation plus $$$
needed are the contents in the maniHa .................................................................. THE BIG 22... LET'S HEAR IT FOR envelopes and in the notebooks. 4001< ElC!ernal disk drive for sale lor the MAUREEN ERNYI
1-BOQ-237-2061 Used cross country ski sale. Saturday 
Mac computer. Call Nancy at 277-8732.
1-2:30 at the Rockne Golf shop. For more 
PERSONALS
LOST • HELP! I NEED MY GLASSES ERIC S.-otT HC at SMC want to wish
info, call NVA at 239-6100. 
-PLASTIC LENS, WIRE, AERONAUT!· C&mpus band needs drummer. REM, you a HAPPY early 19th BIRTHDAY I CAL SHAPE, IN HARD PLASTIC CASE Suml'!'flr job Interviews-Average earn­Part-time mk1g. pos. on campus. Poten­Police, INXS, Blues. Call Tony 4385 or love ya SAM TRACEY
400i< EJCternal disk drive for the Mac. Call 
LOST ON 1117. IF FOUND, CALL MIKE ings $3,400. Gain valuable experience in tial to make S&tlr. Call Cindy at 1·800-Gary 2313
Nancy at 277-8732.
4840. advertising, sales, and public relations 592·2121. Happy B-day Gals! Enjoy Saturday, but 
selling yellow page advertising lor the Seniors -1 need your elC!rs graduation remember Kim stay away from the 1 left the Arthur Andersen dinner at Notre Dame campus telephone dirac· Skicom XCL 181 waxless cross-country OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, ticketsll Do you need elC!ra cash for bananas and Lynn keep your fists down. Barclay's (1119) with the wrong London tories. Opportunity to travel nationwide. skis, Skilom poles( 140-156) and Adidas CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE spring break? Give me a call and a deal Love Mol, Lee & Col Fog trench coat. If you have the same Complete training program in North boot&'bindings. All in excellent condition BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. can be worked out! I'm desperate I!! Tom 
problem, call Mike x1657. Carolina. (Expenses paid) Looking for -$125. Contact Susan Reed, 239-7516. 283-1251 HAPPY BIRTHDAY CAROLINE! LOVE
.

................................................................ enthusiastic, goal-oriented students lor SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at LISA,LAURA,ANIT A LOST: Small Gold Chain. Last seen at challenging, well-paying summer jot). PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca· '"KEENAN REVUE TICKET DISTRIBU· Sign up lor interviews with University '85 VW Cabriolet • Excellent Condition • TION"' Friday, January 23 at 1 p.m. in
the Rock on Tuesday night(1120) Plesse lion: 808 Howard St. just of ofl N.D. Ave. Moc>.e, 
call Kevin -3540 Directories at Career & Placement Ser-21 ,000 Miles • Still Under Warranty • Ken­Gate 3 of the ACC and 4:30 p.m. in 0'
OPEN 7 days a week. 10-530 ph. 233· Happy 1 week aniversaryl Oh, sorry. That wood Stereo • AC • Priced Below Book
vices by Jan. 30. · 2342. Bring in this ad and receive $5 off Laughlin Auditorium. No lines may form was last year at this time. (set in any• Call 277-4361
LOST B-BALL TIX AT W.VIRGINIA every order of $50 or morel more than an hour before distribution. good sinks lately?) GAME IF FOUND CALL SCOTT AT 1599 Umit of 1 ticket per ID and 2 IDs per Coosa SUMMER JOBS -Large resort on east SNOW TIRES: two, brand-new, Fire­person.
CAN IDENTIFY SECTION WOULD HAP­DESPERATELY NEED 2 DUKE STU· entrance to Glacier National Park, Mon­stone, mounted, 7.35-15, replaces 6.50­
PILY PAY A REWARDIIII DENT TIX-cAU KIM x4440 tana looking lor students interested in 15 (fits vw bug, etc.), call Matt at 4415 StiH need Notre Dame Boxer Shorts? The LOST: completed cross-stitch needle summer employment lor the following NEED AIDE TO CLEVE OHIO 1123-1125 Dancin' Irish wiD be selling them at 727 LIZ-DOG MARTUCCI positions: Waitrons, bartenders, kitchen '81 FORD CROWN VICTORIA, 4-DR, V-PE until supply is gone lor $6
work of a HUMMEL pattern LITTLE DEBBIE 2960 GABRIEL ---cALL Brother John -6284 
help, cooks, retail clerks, maids, cas­8, LOADED. 232·9533 EVENINGS 
hiers, cocktail waitrons, desk clerks. of­ONLY. BUY THIS CAR, I'LL TELL YOU For the ultimate in sound, music, person­Ever heard ol NATURAL FAMILY PLAN· We're sad to see you drop out of the LOST CLASS RING fiCe personnel and maintenance. Monthly HOW TO MAKE MONEY. ality, and fun call... ENTERTAINMENT NING?Thia alternative to artificial contra­challenge so early. At least when one of FAP 87 salary including room and board. Inter­UNLIMITED the professional disc jockey ception is Safe,Healthy,EFFECTIVE,and us looses he won't feel as bad as he 
Call Fred 288-2821 views wiH be held on campus in mid­service. We're NO's bestl Ask for Brian Morally AcceptableiLeam more Mon Jan would if he had to pay you. REWARD February. Write for application to our win­1645. 26 at 7:30pm at Hayes-Healy Aud. 
-the Boys ter address: St Mary RB, Inc., PO Box Married and engaged coup las register
TICKETS 
1808, Sun Valley, ID 83353. GREAT PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY. for class Jan 28&Feb 4 on campus.Call LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be­Gain EXPERIENCE and EARN MONEY 
2'37-7401 or 2778807 Need GAs lorN. Carolina and Duke. Call Dee,
tween PW & O'Shag 9:00-10:00 Plesse white working on Fortune 500 Compan·Bill,2008
be kind and contact me if you are tha Riders needed to MNPLS U of M leaving ies' Marketing Progranl6 on campus! BETH HEAL Y·HOPE YOU HAVE FAN· Hello from Lala Land. one who found it x-2738 or bring it by thursday jan. 29 at 9 am. Return Flexible hours each week. Call 1-800-TASTIC BIRTHDAY! LOVE-YOUR 6-A I'm waiting for mine NEED 3-4 N.C. TIXS Call Todd 2551 SECTION MATES.
344 PW. Reward is offered. whenever. Call Joe Neuville 232·9112 821-1540. ................................................................ 
The Observer Friday, January 23, 1987-page 8 
Super Bowl violence eventually hits home 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Super Bowl could bring out the worst in a marriage, some experts in family violence believe. 
Rana Lee, community edu­cation assistant at Marin Abused Women's Services in the San Francisco Bay area, says her informal research shows a marked increase in calls to women's crisis centers and hotlines from battered wo­men on Super Bowl night. 
Lee says there are more calls than usual quring the football season on Sunday and Monday nights after games. 
'~But Super Bowl is by far the worst . . . I'm expecting it to be a nightmare," she said. 
While the game may not cause violence directly, those who specialize in such prob­lems say a combination of the aggressive sport, drinking, depressing winter weather and possible disappointment over a losing team can exacerbate an already abusive relationship. 
"If you watch something vi­olent and you don't work it off, you work it up," says Murray Straus, a sociologist who spe­cializes in family violence at the University of New Hampshire at Durham. "Studies have proved that the more· people watch violence, the more they themselves will be violent." 
Yet most people will not be pushep to that level, he says: "it has the greatest effect on people who are already predisposed to be aggressive.'' 
Lee, 49, said she knows from experience. APPhoto 
"A non-violent husband will Forget about those "little infidelities, that day's game will effect an increase in domestic not turn around and suddenly seem to go hand-in-hand with the pre-Super violence, especially against wives. hit you,'' says Lee, a former Bowl hoopla. Sociologists predict that this Sun-battered woman who left her 
husband of 37 years shortly when I yelled at him the after she was abused during a beating got worse," she says. Super Bowl game. "We had had Candace Rios, a counselor at violent incidents for years." a Chicago battered women's 
shelter, says she received at 
She remembers one game least 15 calls after last year's that ended with her husband Super Bowl, compared with the throwing beer cans at her. ''I average six calls for a Sunday got angry when one hit me, but night. 
'Crazy' McManus mak~s a splash 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
Today the Notre Dame men's swim team goes on the road to compete in the Kenyon Invita­tional. This two-day meet will be a chance for swimmers to compare their abilities with faster swimmers and try events that they don't have a chance to do in a regular meet. 
One swimmer eager to test his skills is lead butterfly swim­mer Pat "Crazy" McManus. Nicknamed as a freshman at Notre Dame, the junior's aspirations for ·this week's meet are anything but crazy. 
"I'm hope to finish in the top six," said McManus. "I'm ba­sically a one-dimensional swimmer, since the 200-yard 'f­ly' is in the middle of the meet and I need to be fresh for it." 
Coach Tim Welsh sees the In­vitational as the next step in the Irish training program. 
"The format will be the same as a National meet, without all the pressures," said Welsh. "It gives us a chance to get a look at swimmers in different events. 
TOWN & COUNTRY 
2340 N Htckory Ad 219 255 0828 
Golden Child PG13 1:50 3:50 5:50 7:50 9:50 The Mlulon PG 1:4! 4:20 7:00 9:30 Star Trek IV PG (Ia Dolby stereo) 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 
SCOTTSDALE 
1153 Scottsdale Mall 219·291 0194 
I Crocodlle Dundee PG 1:50 3:50 5:50 7:50 9:50 U Around MldnlaJtt R 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 
"The meet will also give us team is improving both individ­the freedom and flexibility to ually and as a whole. swim the events our swimmers "We have a lot of good swim­need and times for the people mers," says McManus. "Our who need them." depth helps us win and im­
One of the swimmers that proves the team morale. When Coach Welsh hopes to get a look someone wins, the whole team at this weekend is McManus. is genuinely happy and that 
"Pat is one of our leading makes being on the team fun butterfly swimmers," said and rewarding.'' Coach Welsh, "but he's stuck Today and tomorrow in the 'fly'. We'd like to get his McManus and the team will be times in other events and com­improving in preparation for pare those to other teams." upcoming dual meets with 
Besides his personal goals, long-time rivals Cleveland McManus also believes that the State and Valparaiso. 
Football season, like any holiday time, may show an in­crease in family violence, be­cause husbands are often home watching television or drink­ing. 
"If a wife objects to the time he spends in this male-oriented activity, a conflict can arise," says Michael Smith, a profes­sor of sociology at York Uni­versity in Toronto who has studied sports and violence. 
Rios offers advice for women whose relationships have a his­tory of abuse: "if it's possible, leave home during the game.'' 

Indoor Soccer Sign-up Daily 2-5pm & Sat., Jan. 24 1 Oam-2pm 
South Bend Turners-, Ironwood at the Toll Rd. 
* 
8 game session starting Jan. 30 

* 
Women -Fridays, 7 pm-12 am 

* 
Men -Saturdays, 7 pm-12 am and weeknights at 11 :30 pm 

* 
$50 deposit required per 15 member team (total fee -$350 per team) Call277-0851 for more information 


(3-5 pm) Indiana's First Built Indoor Soccer Arena 
.. :.;·.::m:.:~.¢.:·~-;',:· 
._:;x..;:

:: : "'"'X! 
• • • , .., j, 
.....

. 
. Themost.r./...~hilarious, ) 
guilt-free ·< . 
wayto }
. 
repent r 
-~. ever! .........
. .. 
.·r............ 
........ 

. ' . ·.. ··...... ··~· ......
. 

· Yea, verily, the !·• • · ··• 
L._ . . .· ··• second cominq is at '": / hand. because here's MORE GRoWING UP CAniOLte-another blessing .:·._ : of heavenly humor and inspired irreverence from the authors of the : ··:· phenomenal bestseller that had priests chuckling in their pulpits and ../ :. a half-million of the faithful rolling in the aisles. If you thought religion \ 
:· was no laughing matter. this light-hearted lampooning will make : 
: a convert out of you ... and if you're·already a believer in faith. hope..-::: 
·, . ·: and hilarity, your prayers have been answered. ·: 
·.......··'·...................................... OOUBLEDJ\)'/OOlPHIN 
.,. .... . ......
.. .
. .
.
. 

The Observer Friday, January 23, 1987-page 9 
Canadian Patten, ND hockey team 
. . . 
~ 
take rough style of play to Kent St. 
By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 
Defense wins games, eh? At least that is what Lance Patten, a three-year defenseman for the Irish hockey team believes. A native of Canada, Patten has devoted his hockey career to the fine art of defense. 
"I'm definitely a defensive defenseman," Patten said, noting his two career goals. ''I concentrate on my play at the blue line, and let the forwards do the scoring.'' 
Irish Head Coach Lefty Smith agrees with Patten's self -assessment. 
"Lance is a perfectionist back there," said Smith. "He is a bread-and-butter type player who relies on good fun­damentals to get the job done.'' 
Patten has been developing those fundamentals since the age of five, when he first started playing hockey in Canada. 
"The game is much rougher in Canada," Patten said. "The players are older in the Junior leagues (up to 21-years-old) and bigger, so the hitting is much more intense." 
Patten seems to have brought this hard-hitting style with him, and has a tendency to be a leader in penalty minutes. 
"I like a physical game, one with a lot of intensity," Patten chuckled. "Whenever there is a fight or something, I always seem to be in the middle of it." 
This aggressive play has rejuvenated the Irish, as was evidenced by their outstanding efforts last weekend against Army, which included a pre­game melee. 
=Ihe=Observcr-­
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
-----Super Weekend-___, 
with 


free Pepsi liter(s) with every order 
call272-5455 
for your 

BRONCO Burgers and GIANTS Burgers delivery 2pm-midnight 

"We've been playing clean, 
hard-checking hockey,'' Patten 
said. "Last Saturday, Army 
started taking cheap-shots at 
us during warm-ups, and, well, 
we weren't real happy with 
that. 

"But what I liked was that we stuck together as a team. We're really coming together as a team. We're young, so I'm very optimistic about the fu­ture." 
Patten will lead the Irish into Kent, Ohio, this weekend, as they take on rival Kent State. 
"They beat us twice here ear­lier this year, but both games were very close," said Smith. "Their goalie made 98 saves in two games. He was unbeliev­able." 
"We have to keep up our checking and aggressive play. If we win both, we tie for the league lead, so these games are big for us," Smith concluded. 
Patten is a little bit more op­Lance Patten and the "clean, hard-checking" Notre Dame timistic. 
hockey team will travel to Ohio to face Kent State for two games 
"We'll beat 'em twice." 
this weekend. 
Balance 
continuedfrom page 12 
"I think they are a better team offensively if you take a look at their scoring balance," 
Phelps  said.  ''(Bruin  Head  
Coach  Walt  Hazzard)  is  
playing  some  people off that  

bench that can score points. You can't just worry about Reggie Miller, who I think is one of the premier plyares in the country. I think that's one of the threats they have. 
"Even though he's their leading scorer now, if you've got other people who aren't afraid to score if he isn't, then that's a plus. He's always ca­pable of making four:-Of-six three-point shots. What amazes me is how well these guys all shot the ball from outside." 
Part of the new UCLA scoring parade is sophomore point guard Jerome 'Pooh' Richardson. Richardson earned freshman all-America honors last season and has con­tinued the same form this season, averaging 11 points a game and handing out 99 as­sists on the season. 
J oing him in the backcourt is Monte! Hatcher, who is averag­ing 10 a contest. Dave Immel provides a gun off the bench for 
Hazzard, as the JUmor 
averages 7.2 points per game 
and has hit 15-of-29 three-point 
attempts. 
Up front with Miller, the Bruins have sophomore Charle Rochelin (six points per game) or junior Craig Jackson (4.6). In the middle, the Bruins start 6-10 Jack Haley (5.3 points, 5.1 rebounds). 
t 
., ··· 
Reggie Miller 

The key to the Bruins resur­
gence may be in their freshman 
frontcourt tandem of 6-10 Greg 
Foster and 6-8 Trevor Wilson, 
who were to of the premier 
players in California high 
schools last year. Wilson is 
averaging 6.9 points and 4. 7 
rebounds, while Foster is 
playing at a 3.9 and 2.7 clip. 
The Irish, who shot an abys­
mal 38 percent in last Satur­
day's loss to West Virginia, are 
searching for some offenisive 
consistency to break them out

Do you have a pierced ear (right or left)? of their scoring slump. "It's because of our shooting
Hang out at LaFortune much? 
percentage, not that we're not 
Got a new wave doo? getting the shots,'' said Phelps of his team's scoring problems. Answer yes to any of these questions and we've got music for you. 
'' We missed six lay ups against West Virginia. We're getting the shots, but we're just not scoring. We're getting into sit­uations where we create, but then we're not hitting the shots. "Our foul shooting has been an improvement since the begin­ning of the season, and we're toning down teams on the boards. Yet, sometimes we still aren't patient. Last year with Kempton, Barlow, Dolan and Price, there wasn't the pres­sure on these younger players. But now, it's their turn, and we're still struggling getting the offensive firepower we're looking for.'' 
Another factor in the scoring drought has been David Rivers' ankle injury, which he suffered against Creighton and reinjured against the Moun­taineers. Without a healthy Rivers, as Phelps admitted, the Irish aren't a good offensive team. 
Phelps and his squad have had to go back to the basics to help his team through the poor shooting spell and drive up its confidence. He said Wednes­day that he needs more offen­sive output from Gary Voce, whom he plans to give the green light for the baseline jumper, and Sean Connor, who Phelps said needs to hit three pointers "in bushels" to keep teams honest outside. 
But now it's time for another UCLA-Notre Dame match up. With Phelps in Pauley, some­thing interesting usually hap­pens. 
SAB presents: 
MEONoise Concert Jan. 31, Saturday 8 p.m. $5.00 at the door Stepan Center Marginal Man (Washington D.C.) Precious Wax Drippings (Chicago) Notre Dame's own Youth in Asia Damaged Retina 
Thcz Ccz~ar oPEN 
SAB RECORD STORE SATURDAYS 
1-5 

RATE \'1@11D~ 1986 TOP TEN 
•VOTE 
FOR YOUR FAVORITE ALBUMS 

•SIGN 
UP FOR FREE ALBUMS 

•TEll 
US WHAT YOU WANT 


Hours: 11 :30-5:00 Basement of Lafortune 

-------~------------------....-------...---------------­
The Observer Friday, January 23, 1987 -page 10 
Boyd tangles with collegiate ranks as wrestlers face Nebraska at home 
By CHRIS KILEY prove more mentally and phys­State University, Boyd hopes Sports Writer ically.'' the 2-4 Irish can leave their 
Coach Fran McCann is very problems behind with a win 
Mter this pas~ football satisfied with Boyd's attitude against Nebraska on Saturday. season, everyone 1s tired of so far. "We need to get something hearing about Penn State's "He's the last guy you worry going," said Boyd. "We're quarterback John Shaffer and about," said McCann. "He's al­tired of losing because we know his one loss since the seventh ways one of the first ones in the we're better than the teams grade. 
we've been wrestling." 
Well, try this one on for size. The Huskers are a perennial Pat Boyd, Notre Dame's 142-lb. top-20 team and will provide a wrestler, has compiled quite an stiff challenge for the Irish. impressive record himself. "I'm looking at the Nebraska During his high school · wres­match as good competition," tling career in Mt. Pleasant, said McCann. "With the situa­Mich., Pat won 168 matches tion we're in now, the kids that and 3 state championships are healthy just have to do the while losing only one match. best job they can. Nebraska is Joe Paterno, eat your heart out. a tough team, but we'll give 
Although success hasn't them a good go." come as easy in college, Pat The match will be a reunion has done well enough to of sorts for Boyd. He will face achieve a 19-5 mark so far this Andy Latora, another wrestler season after a 20-15 record last from Michigan.Pat Boydyear. "I wrestled against Andy a 
"There is definitely a big dif­(wrestling) room, and one of couple of times before when I ference between high school the last to leave. He knows was in high school," said Boyd. and college wrestling," said what he has to do and be does "It will be interesting." Boyd. "My won-lost record is 1't ., The match is scheduled for 7 '
AP Photo 
better than last year, but I Fresh off a win against Tom p.m. on Saturday in the auxil­B.J. Armstrong and the rest of the Iowa Hawkeyes retained their don't feel that I'm wrestling Riley, a former national iary gym of the Athletic and number-one ranking last night with a 102-88 pasting of Indiana. 
that much better. I need to im-caliber wrestler from Arizona Convocation Center. 
' 
Bench 
11 continued/rom page 12 
{ I' 'I l sidelined sophomore Lisa 
I 
Kuhns, and most recently with Brommeland's departure from basketball. 
There was some good news this past week, however, as a pair of sophomores with high­school experience approached DiStanislao and joined the team. Both Kim Garrison and Ellen Mauch saw playing time Tuesday night in an 85-68 Irish victory over Cleveland State. 
"A real bright spot is the two girls who just came out," DiS­tanislao said. "We knew they had played in high school. They came out on their own and said, 'We know you're a little thin. We'd like to practice with you.' 
"That's what I like-teaching kids who want to play how to play better.'' 

Another bright spot has been the emergence of Heidi Bunek in the middle. The 6-4 sopho­more saw limited playing time last season, but averages al­most 14 points a game this year and leads the North Star Con­ference in field-goal percentage at .625. That ranks in the top-20 in the nation. 
"Heidi is starting to under­stand the game and her role,'' DiStanislao said. "People for­get that she was injured a lot last season and only started playing as a second-semester freshman. She's starting to come along. 
''Mary (junior point guard Mary Gavin) has just been a great leader for us and Sandy Botham (a 6-2 junior) is start­ing to come along that way too. I think the way we've responded to adversity is un­believable, especially in the way we've continued working towards a goal.'' 
Tomorrow night, the goal is a victory over the Hawks, and turning some of that "brotherly love" into a much-needed boost for the rest of the season. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

GO FOR THE TALL OlE 

• 

The King of Beers8keeps on cotnin' through with 16 oz. of that clean, crisp taste that says Budweiser.e 
..,·~~~~~~ . --~·· ~' -}'· ·'· 
. ~· -~ . .· :');. {..~ ......~..~' .. ­

,.~.!-.-.i. . ..
..,_. '"t 
... • 

, .. ~,··;. -t 

-
~4()t~C3L~.......................................................F.r.id•a•y,•J•a•nu.a.ry..23•'•1~•7•-•p•a•ge--11
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 



\ 
(I 

\
\ " 


Campus · · 
FRIDAY SATURDAY Purchase tickets for trip to see Human 2:00 -4:00 p.m.: BCAF Talent Show Em­League in Chicago on Sunday February cee Try-Outs, Contact Carla Morris for 15, $18, bus fare included, SAB Office more information,£ 4495, Washington Hall 7:00, 9:00 & 11:00 p.m.: Movie, "The Wall", $1.50, Engineering Auditorium 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Manhattan Clam Chowder Batter Fried Fish Tacos Roast Turkey Breast Cheese and Mushroom Omelet 
Brown Beef Saute w/ Noodles Deli Bar Broiled Haddock J ardinere Dilly Burger 
More Far Side Gary Larson 




"Somethin's up, Jed .... Thafs Ben Potter's horse, all right, but ain't that Henry Morgan's chicken rldln' him?" 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Word with avis  
5 Macho  
10 Pipe part  
14 Uncloses to  
poets  
15 Kind of acid  
16 Noxious weed  
17 Prohibition  
item  
19 Door sign  
20 Misjudge  
21 Bar offering  
22 Net  
23 Certain steers  
26 "My ­Sal"  
27 Conducted  
28 Air resistance  
of a kind  
33 Bricklayer  
36 Russ. sea  
37 Gr. theaters  
38 Like the Gobi  
39 Teeming  
40 Raise  
41 Salt Lake  
state  
42 Highway feature  1/23/87All Rights Reserved  
43 After cheap  
or ice  9 Negative  
44 Dessert  prefix  
46 Map abbr.  10 Construction  
47-de deux  man  
48 Wrangler's  11 Hack  
gear  12 Leprechaun  
53 Explode  country  
56 Era  13 Apportion  
57 Hog  18 Seized  
58 Solitary  22 Gloomy  
59 Slip  24 Bumpkins  
63 Den  25 Sacred places  
64 Willow  26 Strong wind  
65 Double curve  29 Roof part  
66 Army and red  30 Brainstorm  
67 News medium  31 Straight  
68 Direction  32 Defy  
33 Large hammer  
DOWN  34 Comedian  
1 Garments  Johnson  
2 Separately  35 Thailand once  
3 Rocket type  36 Russ. moun­ 49 Fibs  54 Reddish horse  
4 Bat wood  tain range  50 Custom  55 Single entity  
5 Trucked  39 Mountains  51 Masquerades  59 Dad  
6 Glowing coal  43 Scatter  52 Confection  60 Syr. neighbor  
7 Russ. jet  45 Singer Cole  53 Fitzgerald  61 Recline  
8 Blackbird  46 Hardships  or Logan  62 Sacred­ 


For a Good Time, Call 
SAB presents: 
ROSE! 
Pink floyd, ·The Wall 
(239-7673) 
?,g,llpm 
EG auditorium 
$1.50
For the latest update on what's 
-
happening on campus 
Tonight and Saturday
-starts Monday 
Absolutely no food or drink allowed
sponsored by SAB 

... ­
~--------------·~~-~-----.., 
Friday, January 23, 1987-page 12




Sgorts 
Irish to take on balanced Bruins; Phelps hints at changes in offense 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN them to lose at home. The next at St. John's and Temple. Then Sports Editor thing you're down 30, The of course they lost the first two players look at you and say, games in the conference on the LOS ANGELES -Notre 'hey, coach, I thought you said road at Washington and Wash­Dame and UCLA. The very they were due to lose at home.' ington St. which seemed like a 
I 
names of the two schools con­You just have to go do it. From carryover from the eastern 
jures up images of great col­a fan and media standpoint this tour.
l 
I 
lege basketball and one of the is a great time to play UCLA "Now they're In a groove. great rivalries in all of college at home, but I'm saying, 'time They're doing very, very well. athletics. The series, which out, we still have to go do it."' Their talent has exploded to began in 1952 and has been con­The Bruins started the play with confidence. Even tinous since 1966, has been season looking as if the magic though they've had some close filled with some of the best had returned to where the wins, the fact is that they are 
I 
games ever seen on a college wizard once coached, knocking winning. That's what makes court. off then top-ranked North them capable of probably being Tomorrow the rivalry con­Carolina, 89-84. But then the better than any UCLA team ,, tinues as the 9-4 Irish travel Bruins went on-the road and I've seen in the past couple of
" 
west for a date with the 11-4 dropped four straight. Now the years.'' Bruins. Of The 27 losses UCLA Bruins are back on track and Again this season, the Bruins has at Pauley Pavilion, Notre riding an eight-game win are led by Reggie (yeah, she's Dame owns five of them. So far streak. my sister) Miller, who UCLA this season, the Bruins are 9-0 '' Knowing how they played is touting as a player-of-the­on their home turf and despite against North Carolina early in year candidate. Miller, who his squad's history of ending the year, which was probably before the season boasted to Bruin streaks, Irish head coach their best execution (in a) Sports Illustrated that a three­Digger Phelps is discounting game, and as talented as North point shot was a lay up for him, any notions that the Bruins are Carolina is, I thought UCLA is averaging 20.5 points a con­'due' for a home loss. handled it very well," said test and is shooting 40 percent 

"You people will write that, Phelps. ''They shot the ball from beyond the baby bomb but it still comes down to what very well and played very line. While his scoring average goes on once the ball goes up," physically. I don't think the is down from last season's 25.9, Phelps said at a press confer­score is an indication of how Phelps said that's more be­ence Wednesday. well UCLA played against cause of UCLA's balance than 
"I think you say, 'hey, North Carolina. The road trip anything else. they're due to lose at home,' sort of took the sting out of 
see BALANCE, page 9 

and you sit there and wait for them. They went east and lost 
Women head to Philly hoping that 'City of Brotherly Love' is kind 
I 
By MARTY STRASEN ther anything else can possibly country (Texas) on its 
Assistant Sports Editor go wrong, the question might homecourt and the number­be whether Notre Dame is four team (Rutgers) in the first 
They call Philadelphia "The ready to play. game of the season. I think we City of Brotherly Love," and Three players have quit the underestimated what we lost to Mary DiStanislao certainly team this season -lone senior graduation and the lack of ex­hopes it lives up to its name. Lavetta Willis (personal perience. 
The Notre Dame women's reasons), freshman Julie "We hated to lose Lavetta. 
basketball coach has seen very Garske (transferred to Wiscon­We miss her. But whatever her few things live up to their sin) and junior Kathy Brom­reasons were, they were her names thus far for her 4-10 meland (personal reasons). reasons. Julie Garske wasn't squad in the 1986-87 season, and The toughest schedule in the happy here, so she went home. is looking for a victory in to­history of the team also has Brommeland just didn't want morrow night's visit to St. taken its toll, as nine of the 10 to play anymore. When teams Joseph's to help turn things in Irish losses have come to teams lose, people's skin gets a little
.. 

the right direction. with a combined record of 103-thin. It makes it seem that "It'll be interesting," said 34, for a winning percentage of much worse." 
The Observer/Greg Kohs 

DiStanislao. "They're tough-a .752. A depleted bench has ham­hardnosed basketball team. "(This season) has been a pered Notre Dame more andJuniors Mary Gavin (10) and Sandy Botham (52) have continued 
They're going to look at us and trip," DiStanislao said. "I more as the season hasto play well for the women's basketball team despite its adversity. 
not care what our record is. never anticipated that we'd be dragged on, beginning with anThe team will travel to Philadelphia to take on St. Joseph's They'll be ready to play." 4-10 at the halfway point. It's early-season injury whichtomorrow. Marty Strasen details the team at the season's But after a season which been a brutal schedule, playing 
halfway-point. see BENCH, page 10 
makes a person wonder whe-the number-one school in the 
Worrying abounds amid the hype, hoopla of Super Bowl 
Associated Press the stunts of the linebacker­They established a reputa­Greg Lasker. And he linemen while Marshall loops defensive end duo of Taylor and tion akin to last year's Chicago scrambled eight times for 51 behind him up the middle. 
PASADENA, Calif. Leonard Marshall; the Bears by knocking out quarter­yards -the majority of the 80 Denver is more complicated. Lawrence Taylor worries Broncos use the tandem of Karl backs -Ron Jaworski of yards the Broncos got on the Both Jones and Mecklenburg about John Elway's legs, how Mecklenburg and Jones. All Philadelphia, Danny White of ground that day. can line up on either side of the hard the Denver quarterback four are going to the Pro Bowl. Dallas and Tommy Kramer of "I didn't have that much line, particularly Mecklen­is to bring down. Each team allows its duo to Philadelphia in three straight trouble getting to him,'' Taylor burg, whose nominal position 
Rulon Jones worries about free-lance outside the normal games, then San Francisco's remembers. " ... but I couldn't is inside linebacker. They use Phil Simms' eyes, how even un­set of the defense. Joe Montana in their first bring him down and he got quickness more than strength der the fiercest of rushes the "What we have to do is stop playoff game. Jay Schroeder of away." -and interplay with five other Giants quarterback keeps his the running game and make the Redskins barely survived The Giants will probably use small but mobile linebackers eyes downfield, looking to find them go to the pass," said Mar­the NFC championship game the same defensive scheme and linebackers in stunts and a receiver just before he gets shall in a comment seconded and was dazed when the game Sunday that they used in that loops. hit. by the others. ended. Taylor led the NFL with game -trying to keep Elway in 
Sunday's Super Bowl could "If they go to the pass, then 20 sacks. the pocket instead of flushing S-imms, a pocket-style quar­turn on whether Taylor or Jones we have to bust the quarter­But the mobile Elway him out. terback, presents a different does a better job. back, bust the bubble and not worries the Giants. He was Marshall and Taylor usually · problem for Denver than El­
If the Denver Broncos and let them have the momentum sacked just twice in New line up on the right side of the way presents to New York. But New York Giants play different to carry them on." York's 19-16 win Nov. 23, once New York defense -the quarter­he can be elusive, as he was sorts of defenses, there is one The Giants defense has by nose tackle Jim Burt for a back's blind side -and their when he scrambled twice for remarkable similarity: the busted a lot of bubbles this nine-yard loss and once on a most common trick is to have first downs against the Broncos Giants key their pass rush to year. scramble by defensive back Taylor tie up two offensive in the first meeting. 

_ 
':;.-.. c·. 

----~-~-~-~~~ ~~~--~--~ 




& 
1986 was a confusing year for movies. The bad 
seemed to get worse, as the lowest common 
denomonator was further diluted to the 
least amount of intelligence and real humor possible, all in the name ofentertainment. At the same time, a number ofrisky, qualityfilms released by mqjor distributors awakened hopes ofa trend in Hollywood reminiscent ofthe early 1970s. One reminder: these are one man's opinions. 
DON SEYMOUR features writer 
1. Hannah and Her Sisters 
The culmination of Woody Allen's work to this point. Bursting with life, intelli­gence, and humor. Not a weak 
Terry Gilliam's stunning vi­sion of a totalitarian state In England Is more visually mag­nificent and emotionally un­settling than the recent adaptation of 1984. Devastating entertainment. 
3. Blue Velvet 
David Lynch's vision of the underbelly of American sub­urbia Is disturbing, dark. and unforgettable. The most dlffl cult tum of the year. 
4. Sid and Nancy 
Alex Cox's story of Sex Pistol Sid Vicious and girlfriend Nancy Is strangely poignant. Their lives are repulsive and brutal, but they are human, and they are in Jove. 
5. Platoon 
Oliver Stone finally captures the horror of the war we lost. for those ofus who were lucky enough to miss it. 
see MOVIES, page 2 


Since Top-Ten Jists are necessarily subjective and 
therefore prone to raising the ire of those who don't 
agree with a critic's selections, The Observer has assembled seven top-ten lists from its various critics,
The Observer 
hoping that readers will be able tofind at least something
Critics' ~Top Ten 
they agree with on one ofthe lists. 
1. The Feelies -The Oood Earth 
From these individual lists 
2. Paul Simon -Oraceland 
we have compiled an Obser­
3. R.E.M. -Lifes Rich Pageant 
ver critics' top-ten list. f'or an 
4. (tie) Peter Gabriel -So 

album to appear on the over­Camper Van Beethoven -1 and /1 
all list. it had to be cited at 
least twice by two different

6. Lets Active -Big Plans For Everybody 
critics. Scoring was 10 points and Dreams 
7. The BoDeans -Love and Hope and Sex 
for each number one listing 
nine points {or each number two, etc. 

8. Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band 
-Live 1975-85 Many of you might be
9. (tie) New Order -Brotherhood scratching your heads over
Game Theory ·The Big Shot Chronicles 
the number one album, The Oood Earth by the New Jersey-based band The f'eelies. It was the over-

the Feelies whelming favorite, as well it should be: the album's decep­tively simple melodies are woven together skillfully into a wall ofcomplex, beautifully ringing sound. An under­ground band which has waited six years to produce this second album, The f'eelies label Coyote suffers from distribution problems, making The Oood Earth somewhat hard to find in record stores. But snatch it up ifyou can. 
Tom Tierney 
1. Kate Bush • The Whole Story 
2. New Order -Brotherhood 
3. 
The Housemartlns -Lon­don 0, Hull4 

4. 
Bruce Springsteen -Live 1975-1985 


5. Paul Simon -Oraceland 
6. 
Peter Gabriel • So 

7. 
The Woodentops -Oiant 

8. 
The Smiths ;,. The Queen is Dead 



9. 
R. E.M. -Lites Rich Pageant 


10. 
Cactus World News· Urban Beaches 


Tim Adams 
1. 
Run·DMC -Raising ffell 

2. 
Naked Raygun • All Rise 

3. 
Beastie Boys -Ucensed to nl 

4. 
The Feelles -The Oood 


Earth 
5. The Ramones -Animal Boy 
see ALBUMS, page 2 




Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Film Series This week at the Snite: Hannah and Her Sisters ( 1986) Color, 107 minutes Directed by Woody Allen, USA Friday, January 23, 7:30 and 9:30p.m., Snite Allen's biggest hit since Annie Hall has been hailed by critics as the finest work in his illustrious career. Allen's exhilarating observation of life in urban America combines poig­nancy and humor as it explores the complex tangle of relationships within one family during a two year period. With Mia Farrow, Barbara Hershey, Dianne Wiest, Michael Caine, and Max VOl! §Ydow.Lola Montes (1955) Color, 110 minutes Directed by Max Ophuls, France Monday, January 26, 7 p.m., Snite A celebrated courtesan (Martine Carol) is reduced to acting out her notorious life and love affairs as part of a circus act. Max Ophul's legendary masterpiece stars Peter Ustinov and Oskar Werner. Absence of Malice (1984) Color, 116 minutes Directed by Sydney Pollack, USA Monday, January 26, 9 p.m., Snite A powerfully compelling drama exploring the influence of the printed media and the impact on the people it serves. Sally Field delivers a masterful performance as an investigative reporter who destroys the life of an innocent man with her careless "fact" gathering. Paul Newman is outstanding_ as the victimized businessman. Easy Rider (1969) Color, 95 minutes Directed by Dennis Hopper, USA Tuesday, January 2:1, 7:30p.m., Snite A counter-culture classic starring Peter Fonda and director Dennis Hopper as two restless, dissatisfied bikers searching for America on a motorcycle trip through the South. Jack Nic­holson's performance propelled him to fame. Individual admission: $1.50. Season tickets are also available.  

~-----------~-~~ ------~·~--------------­
The Observer-January 23, 1987 
•• Albums 
continued {rom page 1 
6. 
Scratch Add -Just Keep t:atlng 

7. 
Big Stick -Drag Racing 

8. 
Die Kreuzen -October File 

9. 
Yo La Tengo -Ride the Tiger 

1
0. Camper Van Beethoven ­Camper Van Beethoven 



'Platoon' 

Kevin Walsh WORST in the order they came into 

1.Howard the Duck -he worst my head.. .
Movies 
movie I have ever seen. Possibly 1. R. E.M. -Lifes Rich Pageant 
continued (rom page 1 
the worst of all time. I can't im­2. The Feelies • The Oood agine why George Lucas agreed t:arth 
6. The Mosquito to dolt. .3. Miracle Legion -The Back­Coast 2.Cobra ·Stallone out ofcontrol. yard 
A fanciful tale of a man going .3.Karate Kid, Part II· Ralph Mac­4. The Smithereens -Espe­mad and a family who won't fight chio admits he did this only be· cially For You back because of love. A cause he was under contract. It 5. Elvis Costello • King of nightmare of dreams gone Is trite, predictable, and it America wrong, and a parable of the cheapens Japanese culture by 6. The Windbreakers • Run 
American family. exploiting it. 7. The BoDeans • Love and 4.King Kong Lives· Why? Hope and Sex and Dreams 
7. Desert Bloom 5.Wisdom • Emilio Estevez as 8. Bruce Springsteen and The 
A moving story of a girl and 'auteur'. The height of self­E Street Band -Live 1975-85 her troubled family during the A­Indulgence. I still can't believe 9. Crowded House • Crowded bomb testing In 1950s Las he used the "It was all a dream House Vegas. Oscar-caliber perfor­..." ending, or that someone let 10. The album released this mances byAnabeth Gish and Jon him use that ending. year that I haven't yet dis­Voight. 6. firewalker -Chuck Norris covered (there's one every 
should stick to kung fu and for­year...) 
8. Ran get about acting. 
This was actually released in 7.Maxlmum Overdrive-Stephen 1985, but since It did not reach King should stick to his· type­most of Its audience until this writer and forget about year, I Include it here. I've seen movlemaklng. few masterpieces In my time, but R Poltergeist U1"tlghtrnare on this Is one. It is a breathtaking Elm Street 2/l'exas Chainsaw Interpretation of King Lear. can Massacre 2 • All are cheap, un­Kurosawa have possibly Im­Imaginative Imitations ofmovies proved Shakespeare? that had something special. 
9.The Three Amlgos<:lub 
9. fool for Love Paradlse1md all other movies 
Sam Shepard In the adaptation with Second City and Saturday of his own play. This Is one of Night Live alumni -When will those small gems--an oddball they realize that these moviesare Krls Murphy tale of the modern American not funny? in the semi-sort ofgeneral or­west that turns to tragedy. 10.The Color Purple/About Last der of importance. .. 


Night • After you get over your 1. Squirrelbalt -Kid Dynamite 
10. Something Wild outrage, I'll admit that as movies 2. R.E.M. -Femme Fatale 
Unpredictable, zany; and fun. these were not that bad. Butwhat .3. Husker Du -Candy Apple Everything that most movies they did to their source materials Orey should be. is criminal. 4. The Ramones -Bonzo Ooes 
To Bitburg 
5. The BoDeans 
Fadeaway!Try and Try 

6. Fine Young cannibals· Fine Young Cannibals 
7. Iggy Pop -Real Wild Child (Wild One) 
8. Metalllca -Master of Pup­pets 
9. 
Petula Clark -Petula Clark's Oreatest Hits Volume I 

10. 
The Smithereens -Behind the Wall of Sleepfilood and Roses Editor's Note: Kris Murphy &.Vas apparently a bit confused when he composed his top­ten list. Note only are most of his entries singles instead of LPs, but a good many of his choices appeared in 1985. Oh welL Critics are often tem­peramentaL 



Brian Peters 

1. Camper Van Beethoven -II and 111 
2. Nikki Sudden-This Ragged School .3. Let's Active-Big Plans For Everybody 
,4. The Feelles -The Oood 
t;arth 

5. 
Soul Asylum -Made To Be Broken 

6. 
Paul Simon • Oraceland 

7. 
Jane Siberry • The Speck­less Sky 


8. Christmas -In Excelsior Dayglo 
9. Oame Theory -The Big Shot Chronicles 
10. The Ramones -Animal Boy 
The Best of the Rest: 
0 

Dumptruck,. Naked Raygun, Love and Rockets, Bad Brains, Meat Puppets, Chameleons U.K., Screaming Blue Mes­siahs. 
Mary Jacoby 

1. The Feelies -The Qood 
Earth 

2. Let's Active -Big Plans For Everybody .3. Game Theory -The Big Shot Chronicles 
Scene-Page 2 
4. 
camper Van Beethoven -II and Ill 

5. 
Paul Simon • Oraceland 


6. Soul Asylum -Made To Be Broken 
7. Christmas -In Excelsior Dayglo 
8. R.E.M. -Llfes Rich Pageant 
9. Love and Rockets -Express 
10. New Order -Brotherhood 

Dennis Corrigan 
1. 
Paul Simon -Oraceland 

2. 
R.E.M. -Lifes Rich Pageant .3. Joe Jackson -Big World 


4. Timbuck.3 -Oreetings From Timbuck .3 
5. The feelles • The Oood 
Earth 
6. 
The BoDeans • Love and Hopes and Sex and Dreams 

7. 
Talking Heads -True 


Stories 
8. 
Peter Gabriel -So 

9. 
Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band -Live 1975-85 

10. 
Prince.-Parade 



Don Seymour 
I . Peter Gabriel • So 
2. The Smithereens -Espe­cially For You .3. Paul Simon -Qraceland 
4. 
The BoDeans -Love and -Hope and Sex and Dreams 

5. 
R. E. M. -Lifes Rich Pageant 


6. 
The Housemartins -Lon­don 0, Hull 4 

7. 
Crowded House -Crowded House 

8. 
General Public -Hand To Mouth 

9. 
Run D.M.C. ·Raising Hell 

10. 
Can't remember. 



The Observer-January 23, 1987 · Scene-Page 3 

Seymour and Audrey(Ellen Greene) find true love with the help of their plant pal Audrey II. 
Delightfully horrifying 
JfNNIFER KROLL 
features writer 

First, take a run-down flower shop in the worst part of town that you can im­agine. Now take Rick Moranis as a wimpy and disheveled florist's assistant living in the basement. Add music. Then add a giant plant from outer space with a cocky attitude and a thirst for human blood. 

Movie review 
Little Shop of
***(out of four) Horrors 

If this all sounds extremely strange to you, then you obviously have not yet ex­perienced "Little Shop of Horrors," a mu­sical comedy which appeared in theaters everywhere over Christmas break. 
"Little Shop" is one ofthe most bizzarre movies you could ever see, but also one of the most clever and amusing. By making use of a delightful and talented cast, director Frank Oz, of "Muppet Movie" fame, has created a gem. 
"Little Shop's" unlikely hero, played by Rick Moranis, is Seymour Krelbourn, the lovable and pathetic assistant florist at the Mushnik Floral Shop. He Is secretly in love with Audrey, a sweet but dumb blonde bombshell played by Ellen Green. Unfortunately, however, she is currently dating a sadistic dentist who wears a leat­herjacket and drives a motorcycle. Steve Martin does a fantastic job with this hilarious role. 
Seymour eventually wins Audrey's af­fections, along with gaining vast amounts of business for the shop, when he dis­covers a very unusual plant which attracts everyone's attention once placed in the shop window. The plant, unfortunately, drinks human blood for nourishment, and it becomes Seymour's responsibility to feed this voracious and quickly growing horror which he has christened "Audrey II." 
The plant in "Little Shop,"affectionately known as "Twoey," steals the entire show. About mid-way through the movie we dis­cover its verbal abilities when It suddenly croons out in a deep voice, "Feed me Seymourt Feed me all night longt" It then goes on to explain its plans to produce offspring and take over the eartht 
"Little Shop of Horrors" Is a lot of fun. It's completely ridiculous and its sup­posed to be. My only question now Is where I can buy the sound track? 

!. 
' 
Rick Moranls stars as Seymour, the caretakerof his vegetable vampire friend. 

ATTENTION ACCENT APPLICANTS: 
If you applied for either Features Copy Editor or Scene Photo Editor, an Accent Editor will be in touch with you 
shortly.

Get into the Spiritof the Superbowl 
••• ••• ••• • • • •• • ••• Ylnnouncing tlie •••••••••••••••••• •••• •••• ..•. '•..
Giant Bronco (jrand Opening •••••••••• Drafts & Beers ••• •• of 
•• 
All weekend ••• • The Country ••• • • 
• 
•

Bring in your ••• •
•

• Senior Club cups ••• •• 
•

refills 50 cents ••• • •
• •

All membership cards can ••• • be picked up at The Club •••• •• 


Harvester 
unique yogurt items trail mixes dried fruits and nuts assortment ofgifts and handmade items 
=fl~{g ~~fM]fftJIJJl~= 
• 

Located in the basement 
• 

ofLaFortune 
•
I 

• • • • • • • •[)\l\·/l/Q\~!7~ ••• • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • lC.. J~uuww • 
• •

HOURS: Mon. -Fri. : 11-8 pm • Sat. -Sun.: 12-5 pm ••••
•
• 

The South Bend Symphony · grown since its beginning in 1 supporting cultural organization 
mploying 85 musicians with a b Twenty-five primary musicians musicians work together to pro 
·. · with its live classical music. funds come from several source. cultural foundations such as the 
·· ·.. ment for the Arts, and ticket · · Kenneth Kiesler leads the ore · eludes Notre Dame students Ju 
.·.~ Kopf, Michelle Witt and Elizabe 
" 
:.-... ·· . ~---~ . 


Scene-Page 4-5 
Orchestra has ·· 4 from a self­to an orchestra dget of $550,000. ' .·· ..· 
d 60 part-time ·· ide South Bend , he orchestra's : contributions, ational Endow­
es. Conductor tra, which in-· · y Meister, Tim 
· Gerrish. 
by Paul E. Oeschger 
-

The Observer-January 23, 1987 Scene-Page 6 

Humor rides high in ''Hereafter'' 

MARY JACOBY 
features editor 

The first sentence may take upan entire page, but by the time you get to the ex­ploits of the wiry tattooed white boy, the paltry Negro, the critter and the hero Ben­ton Lynch, you can bet you'll be laughing at T. R. Pearson's convulated language in his second novel, "Off For the Sweet Hereafter." 


"Off For the Sweet Hereafter" is T.R. Pearson's follow-up to last year's critically acclaimed "A Short History of a Small Place." It may not be as spontaneous as its predecessor, but it proves the first novel was no fluke. 
Pearson's voice is certair:ly unique in contemporary American literature. The language of the rural South, so skillfully employed by Pearson, is the outstanding and most hilarious feature of the novel. But "Hereafter" would be nothing more than an excellent exercise in dialect reproduction if Pearson were not able to evoke the most basic truths about life through characters who live nowhere, are going nowhere, and who try to beat back that truth with a mixture of contrived melodrama, endless speculation and analysis of every happening in the com­munity and television-inspired play­acting punctuated by blustering but empty gestures. 
"Hereafter" returns to the environs of Neely, N.C., Pearson's mythical town where most of the action in "A Short His­tory" occurred. Pearson's strong sense of place distinguishes his work; his charac­ters live in house trailers with "mediterranean-style sofas" or in shacks which the inhabitants call their "cottage." 

Offfor the Sweet Hereafter 
T.R. Pearson 
Linden Press $17.95 
His characters do not have much; but they manage to veil their meager realities enough to convince themselves that their lives are touched somewhat by the magic of advertising-age chic. 
Along with place comes an equally strong sense ofbeing which is manifested in the narrator's speech. Names are im­portant as title of dignity, purveyors of self-worth and a confirmation of identity. Once a character is introduced -say Miss Bernice Fay Frazier, friend and neighbor of the bald Jeeter Throckmorton who dropped dead inexplicably on~ day in her house -the character is always referred to as Miss Bernice Fay Frazier. A stubborn adherence to a person's name underlies the determination ofthese people to keep structure and a bit of old fashioned for­mality and good manners in their other­wise uneventful, undistinguished lives. 

"Off For the Sweet Hereafter" is suc­cessful because it allows humor to ride in the same seat with a latent pathos, and it shows the reader about human nature rather than commenting directly on the subject. In fact, "Hereafter's" ability to go "three of four laps all roundabout the di­lemma" before coming to the point mir­rors real life and, more specifically, a cer­tain culture. Therefore it cref:Ites quite a bit of excitement when an honest-to­God "ruthless culprit" (Benton) starts making mischief with a gun by robbing various small businesses in the area. Sheriff Burton of Neely is itching for the culprit to commit a crime within hisjuris­diction so he can get to do some inves­tigation, maybe have a quote or two in the Neely Chronicle on the matter. In the meantime however, he could "advise and hypothesize and theorize and formulate and figure and speculate," but "he couldn't do anything much in the way of examiningwitnesses and questioningwit­nesses and pursing culprits because they weren't any of them his." 
Much of the action concerns Benton Lynch, whose love affair with the fair Elizabeth Jane Firesheets forms the core of the narrative, and hisjob as an ad-hoc grave relocator. He is part ofa chain-gang like crew hired to dig up the graves lying in the way of a new dam being built and put the decomposed bodies in little plas­tic sacks for the families of the deceased. It's a grisly but often hilarious business. 
Benton's co-worker, the palty Negro, ex­plains what to look for when digging up the graves: "Black dirt's dirt. Yellow dirt's clay. Gray dirt's folks. Ain't a goddman thing to k" 
But there is much to "Off For the Sweet Hereafter." There's the sadfunny material of life. 

Guillain-Barre Syndrome "No Laughing Matter" 
Special to The Observer 
In his first work of non-fiction, co-written with his close pal, Ir­ving "Speed" Vogel. Joseph Hel­ler treats readers to prose bearing the same sardonic wit that characterized his "Catch-22" (the 25th anniversary of which was recently celebrated), "Something Happened," "Good as Gold," and "God Knows." Hel­ler and Vogel share with us the terrifying yet spirited, often wryly funny and always moving ac­count of Heller's bout with the bizarre paralyzing disease, Ouillain-Barre Syndrome. 
It began in December 1981, when Heller was working on "God Knows,"jogging four miles at a clip, and seemingly in per­fect health. Very suddenly one morning he found himself un­able to swallow a mouthful of food. Later the same day he had to struggle simply to remove a sweater. The weakness spread, and within 24 hours he was lying. paralyzed in a hospital intensive care unit. The diagnosis: Guillain-Barre Syndrome, a mys­terious affliction that strikes about 4000 American victims each year. 

For five months, Heller was al­most completely immobilized, unable to eat solid food, sit up or hold a pencil. Speed Vogel ­sometime artist sometime en­trepreneur, and never the Fair­weather friend, was there for Hel­ler -totally. He handled Heller's business affairs, kept his wide network of friends Informed of his struggle back to health, kept Heller's apartment and, when necessary, signed his checks. With irreverence, sharp humor, and affection Heller and Vogel vividly describe Heller's ordeal and his long. fiesty, successful battle to recovery. Along the way there are unforgettable entrances and exits by a remark­able cast of characters that in­cludes buddies Mario Puzo, Mel Brooks, Dustin Hoffman and ­perhaps most critical of all -Hel­ler's nurse, Valerie Humphries. She was assigned to his case at Manhattan's Mount Sinai Hospi­tal when he first became ill; she· will marry him this spring. 
"No Laughing Matter" traces Heller's hospitalization and therapy with the swift wit and eye for telling detail that have always been trademarks in his work. Featuring alternating chapters from Joe and Speed, the book depicts the lively efforts of friends and supporters, and of­fers hauntingly powerful descrip­tions of the mannner in which profound illness reduces life to its simplest elements. 

About the authors: 
Joseph Heller is the author of "Catch-22," "Something Hap­pened," "Good as Gold," and "God Knows." He now lives in East Hamptom, N.Y., with his former nurse and fiance, Valerie Humphries. 
"No Laughing Matter" is Irving "Speed" Vogel's first book. He has been a businessman, cook, artist, plumber, sculptor, and an official herring taster at Zabar's. He was sitting on the beach reading "Catch-22" when he met Joe Heller 25 years ago. He resides in New York City and Sag Harbor, NY with his recent bride, writer Lou Ann Walker. 
(Avon Books; February, 1987; $4.95 U.S./$6.95 Canada). 
c 

ath.:r·s Pizza~ Find one. ItS worth it.™ 
FRIDAY& SATURDAYSPECIALS 
I LARGE for price I 
I ofMEDIUM 1 
I ~~ I
I ~Pizza.. 1
One --""" ... piau ., poniclpaliaf .......boa..
I Not .a~Mt a. " ,· ,._ witlt ""Y oe~.:r o«er. --\.;'E FiJKI one. I Offer expires Z'2M7 It's wonh it
I 

~--~-----------------~ 

We Deliver to a Limited A.rea 
52920 US 31 North South Bend, IN 


The Yellow Submarine 

272-4453 
Delivery Special 'til Feb. 1 
Buy 2 subs and try our 6" snack sub FREE. 
Try our NEW ham, roast beef & turkey club combo. 


The Observer-January 23, 1987 Scene-Page 7 
. . -. .. . 

The Scoop 


Art 
Tonight two ehibits open at the art gallaries on the St. Mary's campus. "Ruth Sinclair's Personal Papers"will be displayed at the Moreau Gallery and "Robert Berkshire's Paintings and Drawings" go on exhibit at the Little Theatre and Hammes Galleries. An opening reception for both ex­hibits will be hald at their respective galleries tonight from 7-9 p.m. Gallery hours are 9:.30-noon, 1-.3 
p.m. 
Monday-Friday and Sunday 1-.3 

p.m. 
Both exhibits will be on display through February 20. 


Music 


'----------....IL.--3...__-~ . 
Tonight, for one night only "The Charlie Daniels Band" in concert at the Holiday Star Theatre in Merril­lville, IN. The show starts at 8 p.m. and tickets are $14.95. For tickets call Ticketron at 2191769-6600. 
Tomorrow night .the Holiday Star Theatre in Merrillville, IN presents the "Let the Good Times Roll Super­bowl" starring Ben E. King, Little An­thony, The Coasters, and Wolfman Jack. Shows begin at 7 and 10:.30 
p.m. and tickets are $16.95. 
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 
,'t,~bii2fJL..t8;:;J' 
• > < < Is cUA'elltly accepting re,umes 
from 

University of Notre Dame5elllors for the two-year Hnancial Analyst Program Please see the Career& PlacementServices Office for details. 
Movies 


The Student Activities Board presents "Pink Floyd: The Wall" tonight and Saturday night In the En­gineering Auditorium. Rock music comes alive In this classic movie about a man driven to the brink of Insanity. Based on the album of the same name by Pink floyd, It's a bizarre statement on life that must be experienced--more than once. Showtimes are 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Ad­mission Is $1.50. 
"Hannah and Her Sisters" will be showing tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. Woody Allen directs this 1986 melodrama about the trials and tribuilatlons of a small family In ur­ban America. The movie stars Mia farrow and Michael Caine. Shows start at 7:30 and 9:.30 p.m. Admission is $1.50. 

Mass 
Masses for this weekend at Sacred Heart Church will be Saturday night at 5 p.m. Sunday at 9 and 10:.30 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. 


bubbles 
Several familiar faces will be off your "Guiding Light" screens soon: Michael O'Leary (Rick) Is heading to Hollywood for pilot seasons; Mary Kay Adams (India) who had planned an earlier departure In September, now expects to leave when her extended contract Is up In March; Susan Pratt (Claire) was said to have been unhappy with her role for some time. And don't be surprised to find Larkin Malloy (Kyle) among "de" party ofdepartees. The word here Is that Larkin was not tool thrilled with the projected direction of his role. 
an insider's soap opera
•
review 
Kimi Parks (Dart "Guiding Light") is 14 and a show business veteran. She was Tessie in a touring company of "Annie," worked with Llza Minelli, Stockard Chan­ning and Chlta Rivera In Broadway's "The Rink." and was In the fllm, "Heartburn" with Jack Nicholson and Meryl Streep. Asked which medium was more difficult, soaps or theater, Klml answered, "Once you've learned your part for the theater, you have to work at keeping each perfor­mance fresh. But with a soap, you have to learn pages of new material every day." 
What advice would she give to a young person who wants to go Into show busi­ness? "''d say -make sure this is what you really want to do. It's a lot of work. and it's not the most secure kind ofwork. Be prepared for disappointments." Is Klml prepared for disappointments? "Well, put It this way. Acting Is what I want to do. But I think It's always best to be prepared to do something else If neces­sary. IfI can't make acting my life career, 1hope I can always do something in the business." 

Write KimI cto "Guiding Light," CBS, 51 West 52nd Street. NYC 10019. 
SOAPSCRAPS: Peggy McCay (Caroline, "Days ofOur Lives") stars as Cheryl Ladd's 
.... 

mother in "Getting Dead," an upcoming NBC flick... "Young & the Restless" star Thorn Bierdz (Philip) gave costar Lauralee Bell (Cricket) one of his paintings for her new home. Thorn Is considered an ex­ceptionally gifted artist by people who know about such things..• Emmy winner Robert S. Woods who played Bo Buc­hanan on "One Life to Live," and who has since joined "DOOL" as architect Paul Stewart, made his big flick debut with Jane Fonda, Jack Lemmon and Michael Douglas In "The China syndrome." 
The Carribbean Island beach on which John Marin's "OLTL" character, Jon Rus­sell, played out so many of those exciting scenes In recent episodes Is nicknamed "Dr. No" Beach, and for good reason. Much of the "Dr. No" flick was shot there. 
'fli., 

Jacqule Courtney stan as Ailee Frame, one of the most popular character~ on NBC-TV's daytime soap, "Another World." 
****************** 
... * 
iHappy~~ : 
i Birthday i : Carey Gels! i 
... * 
... * 
f\ *

* your PMT pal ._ ~ 
t***************** 
River Park Theatre 
-

2929 Mishawaka Ave. 288-8488 Now Featuring: 
"a comic revelafion" 
-
Down By Law 
7:30 p.m. & 9:30. p.m. 
Coming Soon: 



"a French comedy" 3 Men In a Cradle 
-
Sid and Nancy 
all seats $3.00


~Merrill Lynch 
.... 

The Observer-January 23, 1987 Scene-Page 8 
The threat of AIDS -a modern dilemma 
WON in Chicago on my clock­ something contagious, like men­ memory in the collective uncon­ around Chicago.  Last year,  we  itation of the way Christ showed  
radio woke me up this morning  tal madness; or perhaps, if they  scious. Somewhere in mankind's  read  about  an  AIDS  child  in  us our meaningfulness to Him.  
with  a  lively discussion  on  the  were  Catholics,  they  were  re­ past,  something  happened  Kokomo;  next  week.  another  Of all people alive. AIDS patients  
recent  admission  of  an  AIDS  garded as having the power to  which religion calls the "original  AIDS  child  will  turn  up  in  are  among  those  apt  to  feel  
child to a school in the listening  cast spells that could darken the  sin,"  from  which  came  guilt  Scarsdale.  My Jungian analysis  stricken  by  God;  maybe  they  
area.  The central  concern  was:  mind,  enfeeble the will.  It was  which  infects every  one  of us  has  no  validity except for  one  have days when they wonder if  
"Would you send your child to a  imagined that those ofa different  born of woman. Adam and Eve,  point: there are no hiding places.  He loves them. We can hurt them  
school  which  a  student  race had dirty habits which could  according to the myth, tried to  If you want to be afraid of some­ even more ifwe regard them with  
diagnosed as an AIDS. patient at­ soil the purity of the superchlefs.  hide from God after their sin of  thing -ifyou want to live through  fear.  
tended?"  Bigotry has fed itself on  preju­ disobedience;  God  had  to  go  that kind of nightmare  -don't  
fear the AIDS child whom you can  Fear,  of course,  comes  uni­ 
looking for them  so  that God  see. Rather, think ofthe AIDS vic­ nvited; one may have to defend  
Father Robert Griffin  could explain how they had hurt themselves. Illness came into  tims you may never suspect: the waiter whose thumb is in the  himself against fear. We shouldn't hand on to it as though  
the world  on that day, Genesis  soup he serves you; the fellow  we were perfectly entitled to be  
Letters to a Lonely God  explains to us, because the im­munity from disease was lost  Christian with whom you share the chalice at Mass.  fearful. Perfect love casts out fear, and that's the kind of love  
when  Adam  and  Eve  forfeited  a Christian should pray for. Saint  
grace. Every sickness there ever  However,  we can't allow our­ Francis of Asissl.  learning with  
A number of parents called in  dice against foreign scapegoats  was is a consequence, as well as  selves  to  feel  so  constantly  the help of grace,  how to  put  
to say that while they felt sorry  whom we want to drive off. Even  an image, of the effects of sin,  threatened;  and  we  shouldn't  aside the revulsion he felt toward  
for the AIDS child and his family,  In America,  we have listened to  as  those healing stories of the  have to, if we accept what medi­ lepers as a very young man, be­ 
I  they would keep their children at home, away from the young vic­ false witnesses accusing foreig­ners of being monsters who eat  Biblical lepers make clear. AIDS today is what people catch in­ cal science tells us. We don't catch AIDS from a doorknob or  came our greatest Christian out­side of the Holy Family. All of us  
1 I I I  tim. "AIDS," they all said, "is so very terrible, and there's so much. we don't know about it. Maybe it is passed on In ways doctors haven't found out about."  their own young, or who want to eat our young, or who wish to be the beneficiaries of some kind of human sacrifice. The victims offear are not nec­ stead of leprosy, to make them socially unacceptable. Creatures suffer from the vanity that tells them: "I can pull  a toilet seat or from other casual contact. To insist otherwise, when all the evidence proves dif­ferent, is as ignorant as bigotry.  are, have been, or could be moral lepers. All of us have the viruses of a fatal illness -we call it Death ­in our veins. Christ had to die for us, not because we  
essarily wicked or ignorant. The  myselfup by my own bootstraps,  Christianity furnishes us with  were afflicted with leprosy or an­ 
A priest, hearing them sort out  parents who called the radio sta­ and there ain't no flies on me  an awareness that as God's crea­ other terrible disease -but be­ 
their fears while he's half-asleep,  tion ~bout a doomed little boy in  from a primeval curse." Death,  tures,  we  derive  our  meaning  cause all of us have sinned, and  
Isn't entitled· to think he knows  class with their own beloved ur­ also the effect of original sin, is  from Him. If,  as Christians,  we  come short of the glory of God.  
the answers which would settle  chins would probably hate the  the great leveller. Pelagianism is  trust that love is in the air as the  
the  matter.  Yet  I  related  the  small-mlndedness that discrimi­ an  old  heresy  that denies  the  ambiance  of God's  world,  we  I'm not smarter or better than  
episode to the human condition.  nates against the Catholic,  the  need of God's grace ·in one's ef­ should be quick to see that we  the radio listeners tuned to WGN.  
Perhaps it's not fair to classify  Jew, the Black. or the Hispanic.  fort  to  be  perfect.  Neo­ have a duty to love one another.  Nor am I casting stones in their  
the terminally ill, with viruses in  Here is the irony: young white  Pelagianism is alive and healthy  The image of the lost sheep is  direction. Yet as a lover of cities  
their  blood  streams,  with  the  liberals, as enlightened as edu­ in  20th  century  suburbia;  the  endearing;  but  we  mustn't get  who studies the faces in the pass­ 
minority groups against whom  cation can make them, suddenly  visible  sign  of  it  as  spiritual  the idea we have to become iso­ ing crowd, I realize there's no im­ 
laws have been passed to keep  discover a pariah in their midst  malaise is the smugness and self  lated before the Shepherd  can  munity from anything: when the  
them in their ghettos. Yet,  ever  who must be kept enclosed in  satisfaction of the fat cats.  Yet  find us.  bombs drop, we will find no es­ 
since biblical times, we've been  his circle before he can pollute  the appearance in the neighbor­ cape hatches to save us from the  
quick to conclude that human  the earth with his physical pres­ hood of the merest wisp of an  I am the member of a Mystical  radiation. The analogy is inept  
beings can be separated into the  ence.  AIDS child  with  a  lethal  com­ Body; the Church is the  sacra­ for a reason: AIDS is not a sick­ 
clean and the unclean, like the  plaint, for which there is no know  ment reminding me that I have  ness that hangs in the air. Yet it  
creatures on the ark.  If I wanted to be pretentious,  cure, reminds them how vulner­ travelling  companions  on  the  will be always with us,  like the  
I could speculate that the fears  able all ofus are in a world where  road  to  heaven.  Therefore,  I  poor,  from  now  on,  perhaps.  
Minority  groups  throughout  which break out like an epidemic  technology Is not able to build  should try to practice the kind­ We're damned fools if we think  
history have been regarded with  in highly civilized communities  us a hiding place.  ness which shows other people  that hiding from a small chiid is  
suspicion  as  though they had  derive  from  a  half-buried  l'm  not  attacking  the  towns  how meaningful they are, in im­ going to make us safe.  

•. 
Aries (Mar 21-Apr 19) A puz­zle from out of the past takes on a new meaning as you find answers that eluded you before. Look forward to hap­pier times with your family. 
**************** 
Taurus (Apr 20-May 20) Take things on a step-by-step basis. Don't be pushed or rushed Into premature action. Take a vacation only If you· must. 
*************** 
Gemini (May 21-Jun 20) A changed attitude warms up what had been a chilly rela­tionship. Continue to build the confidence you both need to have In each other. 


Cancer (Jun 21-Jul 20) Ig­nore the pesky problems that threaten to mark the end of this month. They can walt un­til later when you have time to sort them out. 
**************** 
Leo (Jul 21-Aug 22) Stop fussing about what else you can do to make your prime relationship better. Just give more of yourself. Your pres­ence Is the best answer for loved ones. 
**************** 
Virgo (Aug 23-Sep 22) You are richer In friends than you know. This week they will overwhelm you with their warmth and love. Indulge liberally in this affection. 

Libra (Sep 23-0ct 22) A long delayed romantic trip be­comes more feasible once the pressures of planning ease up. Expect to hear more about this very soon. 
**************** 
~orplo (Oct 23-Nov 21) Take a chance to meet new people but don't forget old friends. Calls from distant loved ones bring welcome news. 


Sagittarius (Nov 22-Dec 21) Some romantic warmth could turn Into heated temperamen­tal outburts instead. Cool down pressure points before they explode into real prob­lems. 
**************** 
Capricorn (Dec 22-Jan 19) Last minute details need to be tended to before you can really relax. Friends will enjoy giving to you this cold season, so take and enjoy. 
Aquarius (Jan 20-Feb 18) Start sharing more of your time with family and friends as the months end approach. Most other matters can wait until later. 
**************** 
:-'lsces (Feb 19-Mar 20) Don't be surprised if you un­wrap a very special gift from Cupid. Romance is a very def­inite possibility in your imme­diate future. Luckv you. 
Special tip for this week: Don't allow the snows to cool your heart. 


.,I 
'l 




