

VOL. XXI, NO. 57 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Republicans against Gorbachev address 
Associated Press address a joint meeting of Congress of Dec. 9 during the 
WASHINGTON -The Washington summit "would be likelihood that Soviet General a terrible mistake and I have Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev relayed my views to the State will become the first commu­Department." nist leader to address a joint 
Seventy-nine members of themeeting of Congress House, mostly Republicans,diminished Thursday as House signed a letter to PresidentRepublican Leader Robert Reagan urging that anotherMichel joined a GOP revolt forum besides a joint meeting against the proposal. 
of Congress be found for aFaced with the opposition on meeting between GorbachevCapitol Hill, a senior White and Congress, said Represen­House official said "I would be tative Robert Walker. 
very surprised if he ( Gorbachev l ever ends up ad­The status of the invitation dressing a joint meeting." remained unclear. 
Michel said in a statement that plans to ask Gorbachev to see GORBACHEV, page 6 
Network prepares to boycott Coke 
By CHRIS JULKA "I'm very confident that the Assistant News Editor students will be willing to sacrifice some small part of 
The campus Anti-Apartheid their meals in order to further Network is holding strategy the cause of human justice," meetings, printing posters, and Checkett said. planning to meet with the direc­Coca Cola has disinvested in tor of University Food Services name only, according to Check­as the network prepares to ett, still retaining 69 percent of spearhead an indefinite the soft drink market in South boycott of Coca Cola. Africa through a company 
"We are urging students to called Amalgamated drink only water, milk, juice Beverages. "Amalgamated and 7-Up," instead of Coke Beverages invested its products, said John-Paul workers' pension funds in the Checkett, treasurer of the Sguth African military, so ba­campus Anti-Apartheid Net­work. see BOYCOTI, page 6 
Texas prof: scientists 
By BRADLEY GALKO according to Dr. J. Lloyd News Staff Dumas of the University of Texas. 
America has lost its competi­"Since the 1950's, we have tiveness in world markets be­taken a very large fraction of cause it has lost its efficiency the engineers and scientists in of production, due to military the U.S. and devoted their ef­draining of scientists and en­forts, their talents to looking gineers out of civilian manu­for a different kind of facturing firms and into mili­(military) technology," tary manufacturing firms, Dumas said Thursday in a lee-
Airlines worry officials with pilot hiring policy 
Associated Press lines DC-9 after it was dis­closed that both the captain 
WASHINGTON The and co-pilot had only major airlines have been recently begun flying that easing their hiring require­type of jetliner. ments because of the need Spokesmen for the airline for thousands of new pilots, disputed suggestions that and some aviation safety of­the two pilots' flying back­ficials worry about the ground was unusual, calling decline in cockpit experi-it "the norm in the indus­ence. try." They emphasized that 
Pilot inexperience has both pilots, who were among been raised as a possible fac­the 28 people killed in the ac­tor in last Sunday's crash in Denver of a Continental Air-see AIRLINES, page 6 

After the final home game Notre Dame Stadium sits empty. The Irish meet Penn State this weekend at 
should focus less on military 
ture titled, "The Economics of "It is what these people techniques for non-military t Military Spending." (military scientists and en­items· has resulted in "the rate ' I gineers) have not been doing of technological progress l j
Dumas estimated that about that is what has been causing (going down) dramatically in 30 percent of all engineers and the economic problems... the U.S. and with it the cost of jscientists in this country are (namely) the kinds of things cost-offsetting capabilities of dedicated to military~related that ordinary commercial in­American industry,'' Dumas l research. He said this situation dustry does," Dumas said. said. Dumas said he felt has remained relatively un­The lack of participation of American industry could be '1 changed for the past four scientists and engineers in the decades. improvement of production see SCIENTISTS, page 6 
Soviet seeks weapon ban 
Associated Press the third session of the Confer­opmwn or congressional 
ence on Disarmament is sched­deliberations to come into play 
TOOELE Army Depot, Utah uled in Geneva. before the details of an agree­-A soviet negotiator on Nazarkin, the chief Soviet ment are worked out. Thursday called for a May negotiator at the conference, "The Soviets are always deadline to reach an interna­said he recognized that there wanting to set artificial dead­tional treaty on chemical weap­were differences between his lines. We don't deal with them ons as a delegation from his country and the United States on trust; we deal with them on country arrived for a tour of on verifcation and other making a treaty so tightly the Army's chemical weapons procedures. bound and ironclad that they disposal plant. However, Max Friedersdorf, can't cheat," Friedersdorf 
Yuri Nazarkin said he the chief U.S. negotiator, ruled said. believed an agreement on out the possibility that the U.S. Earlier Thursday, Nazarkin reducing and eventually ban­would accept an arbitrary ning chemical arsenals could deadline. The U.S., he said, did be obtained by late May, when not want the pressure of public see CHEMICALS, page 7 
-~ -~------~­
page 2 

Of Interest 
Winter bike storage will take place at gate 14 of the stadium today from 3 to 6 p.m. and on Monday from 1 to 4 p.m. Storage is free. -The Observer 
R.C.I.A. meeting will be held this Sunday from 4 to 5:15p.m. in the Badin Hall Office of Campus Ministry. The topic will be "Advent and the Liturgical Year." -The Observer 
Notre Dame Chorale will give its Fall Concert on Sunday at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart. The program of sacred and secular music will feature Bach's "Jesu, meine Freude" along with pieces for double choir and several 
spirituals. Refreshments will follow the concert. -The Ob­server Knights of Columbus will hold a general meeting at 3:30p.m. on Sunday at the council home. -The Observer The AT&T Comedy Concert has been moved from Stepan Center to Washington Hall to provide a better con­cert atmosphere. The show features Larry "Bud" Mel­man, Rita Rudner, and Emo Philips. The show is at 8 p.m. and doors open at 7 p.m. -The Observer Saint Mary's Equestrian Club will hold an organizational meeting on Sunday at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. A film will be shown. For information, contact Mary Nichols at 284-5404. -The Observer "Thursday's Child," a comedy by Saint Mary's professor and award-winning playwright Julie Jensen, will be presented tonight through Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sun­day at 3 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. -The Observer Tours of the Women's Care Center will be given today from 1:30 to 4 p.m. for all Right to Life members and interested persons. Tour lasts twenty minutes. A van will leave from the library circle every thirty minutes. -The Observer Telephone directories for off-campus, graduate, and law school students are available at the information desk on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center upon request. -The Observer The Annual International Banquet sponsored by the ISO will be held tomorrow between 6 and 9 p.m. at the Knights of Columbus building. All students and faculty are welcome to join this festival. -The Observer Noted physicist Norman Ramsey will speak on the subject of "Time and the Physical Universe" at 8:30 p.m. tonight in the library auditorium. Ramsey is the Hig­gins professor of physics at Harvard University. -The Ob­server  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor ...... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carolyn Rey Design Assistant ........... Pete LaFleur Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cathy Haynes Typesetters ...................... Tom Elliott ND Day Editor ............... Greg Lucas News Editor................... Regis Coccia SMC Day Editor ........ Suzanne Devine Copy Editor .................... Liz Panzica Photographer .......... Suzy Hernandez Sports Copy Editor ........ Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Matt Guye Irish Extra Editor .............. D.C. Viewpoint Layout . ............. Julie Ryan Irish Extra Design ..... Stewart GarCia Accent Copy Editor ...... Beth Cornwell Tille o..ntl" (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tille ~II" is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for So40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina Tille Olleenet", P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodiana 46556. Tille Olleenet" is a member of Tille Allodaled Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved.  

The Observer 

Level one, screen one: 
· I find myself deposited on a dirt roadway, overlooking a rather scenic mountain range and a rather forbidding cliff behind me. No sooner had I picked myself up when green lizard men with clubs started to attack me. "Oh well," I sighed, "time to carry on my quest." One lizard man, two lizard man, three, four ... 
Level one, screen two: 
After numerous scrapes with cerberi, sword­wielding women and strange blue creatures throwing knives, I enter the Castle of the First Level. Strange ghostlike creatures with half­suits of armor assault me as I climb through the dark corridors. 
Ye Gods! A flaming pif!! I leap across the gulf to snatch a swinging vine, only to be eaten alive by vampire bats. 
Level one, screen three: 
At the end of the castle and after being killed twice more, I face the King of Level One. He is a huge red giant with a long pitchfork. He leaps once, I leap once and land an aerial shot to the head. Ouch! Cursed pitchfork. Two more shots and he goes down. "You are a brave fighter to have cleared such a difficult stage," the gods of Video proclaim. A man's got to have a reason to live, you know? 
Level two, screen two: 
The green men have turned the color of au­tumn leaves, and they now have pet snakes and minotaur neighbors. I found an enchanted ram's head that cured my ills. I have leapt acid streams and fought flying pirahna fish and gar­goyles with swords of stone. So far I have con­quered. Oh no! A harpy! Arrrrrrrrrggghhh! 
The real world: 
Damn harpies. Pump another quarter in the coin slot. Good thing these games have a con­tinue option. 
Level three, screen three: 
The third castle, after much trial and fighting 
of bats, hath yielded before me. I enter the 
great hall to find ... 
Nothing? No, wait, a sorcerer has appeared 
out of thin air! As I jump to battle, he disap­
pears, only to teleport behind me and lash out 
with evil blue flaming fireballs. "Treacherous 
swine," I mutter under my last breath. 
My next reincarnation manages to kill the 
foul beast, and a fanfare from on high alerts 
me that my valor has won me an extra life. I 
walk forward, my step light, my head held high. 
Level five, screen three: 
"How much longer must this go on?" I think 
as I enter the great hall, actually a cave since 
Level Five apparently has no castle to speak 
of. 
A green five-headed monster moves towards 
me, breathing fireballs and looking nasty. I lift 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 


(DOORS OPEN AT 7:00PM) TICKETS: $7.00 FOR STUDENTS ($8.00 PUBLIC)-AVAILABLE AT THE CELLAR tickets also available at the door. SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOARD 
my stolen battle-axe battle, only to find 
a strange languor affecting me. My every 
movement feels as if I were struggling through 
molasses as the monster moves closer, and 
closer, and I can feel the heat singeing my 
limbs ... 
The real world: 
Well, here's the deal. Rastan <the name of the game) won't let you continue with more quarters after Level Five, so you don't want to finish Level Five with only one man left. Better to kill him off and buy three new men with another quarter. 
Level six, screen three: 
The end of my quest! Me against a dragon, sixteen feet tall and covered with scales, hiding in a cave that looks like a gymnasium. I charge and stab and jump and parry, remembering the words of my mentor, "feint and slash and run away and live to figbt another day." An errant jump earns me a charred leg, but adrenalin accelerates my reflexes as I launch a superhuman attack on the fiend. 
The real world: 
As I make my last stab, charging full tilt towards the dragon's mouth, the dragon evaporates into a cloud of dust. The three or four people that are usually watching by this time drift away.leaving me to pick up my sword and wander home ... 
The author has since retired from swashbuck­ling and has found a new career piloting F-16s for the Sega Navy. 
Ca.lve"' Df!Fbrest.. a. k & 
Larry"Bud" Melman. 
Amertca's huggy·bear CUlt t1gure and crea.tor of'lba.st-on-a-Stick.. Rita ll:udner. '"r!me iB running out r wa.nt to have children while my parents a.re 
.,.:W=~':,~w~ 
Bmo Phllipa. 

'"Old ladles going through garbage cans saved my life so rn&l\Y tJ.mes as a baby" 
20 8:00 PM 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 The Observer ·page 3 


$73M cocaine bust largest ever in U.S. 
Associated Press Another Customs official, Michael Sheehan, said the 
PORT EVERGLADES, Fla. worth of the total haul was es­-Shipments of lumber for timated at $73 million making picnic furniture con­wholesale. A street-sales value cealed the largest amount of would be much higher, but cocaine ever seized in the those estimates are meaning­United States, drug agents said less because they depend on Thursday as continued dis­such factors as the strength of coveries pushed the haul past the market and whether the the four-ton mark. cocaine is cut with lesser-grade 
Packages of the drug were drugs or materials, he said. found over the past two days in Since early June, Customs in­two successive shipments of a spectors in South Florida have vessel that traveled between seized 66 cargo containers car­Honduras and Port rying a total of 12 tons of Everglades. The drugs were cocaine, said Carnes. hidden inside hollowed 4-foot­The cocaine seized in the past long boards resembling rail­two days apparently originated road ties. in 80 percent of the cocaine 
"This is the largest cocaine used in the United States. seizure in history," said Harry ''This has all the earmarks Carnes, spokesman for the U.S. of a well-organized operation," 
Father David Burrell, professor of theology and phi­Dame, reflected on their experiences in the Third Customs Service, as U.S. Drug Enforcement
drug said losophy, introduces speakers Lou Nanni and Mary World Thursday night at Washington Hall. See story agents tore open the boards Administration spokesman Hawley. Nanni and Hawley, recent graduates of Notre below. with crowbars. Paul Teresi. 
Core sophs told of Third World inequality by grads 
presentations in Washington Lou Nanni, a 1984 graduate He said he hoped it would open its dimensions, so he spent twoBy DAN MURPHY Hall Thursday night. and former Holy Cross Associ­students' eyes to the problem and a half years in Chile in a
News staff 
The presentation was part of ate, talked about his experi­of Third World inequality and program sponsored by the Cen­Two Notre Dame graduates the Arts and Letters core ence in Chile, and Mary raise some thoughts, questions ter for Social Concerns. He course curriculum, and core Hawley, a 1979 graduate, spoke and reactions. lived in a shantytown with a 60
described the social inequality course professors required about the semester she spent "We're not indoctrinating percent unemployment rateand oppression they witnessed their classes to attend. in Peru. anyone," said Neiman. "We're and taught English to sixth and in the Third World during two 
After the hour-long program, just saying this is the way it is. eighth grade students. With the Nanni and Hawley answered We don't want to get anyone to song, "The Dance Alone" by student questions and repeated accept any certain view. (The Sting playing in the back­the presentation at 9 p.m. presentation) is education, not ground, Nanni narrated a short 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
CAMPUSVIEW 

Core course professor Alven indoctrination." slide show of scenes from the 
Neiman called the presentation Nanni said he wanted to find shantytown. 
a "vicarious Urban Plunge." out what poverty meant in all "Here I was a kid from Notre 
APARTMENTS 


Dame. I felt like oh yeah, I know a lot of people, I have ambitions," said Nanni, "but (life in Chile) broke me down. The first thing I said when I got 
Wishes you a 
up in the morning was why?"

Happy Birthday Hawley spent a semester of her sophomore year in Peru in the Latin America Program of
Maureen! 
Experimental Learning. She
Happy Thanksgiving 
wondered if going to Peru and witnessing the impoverished
Love, 

conditions there would weaken Mom, Dad, Jerry, her faith. "I gradually realized that I was taking an awful lotTim, Brian, MR. Keith, more than I was giving," she
Taking applications now 
said. "We have a couple of

Steve, Margaret, Mike, 
choices. Are we going to see itand Kevin (the problem of inequality) or 
for next fall. 
Call 272-1441 
are we going to gloss over it, keep walking, keep talking?" 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 


ICE COLD BEER 
Frank's Place Liquors 
Mr. l's Liquors 413 Hickory Road
327 w. Marion -Two blocks Across from Town andsouthwest of Memorial Hospital Country Shopping CenterHours:Mon.-Sat. 1Oam 'til 1am 5 minutes from NO232-2277 Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 10am-11pm 
Good through 
Everyday prices-Case Beer, Cans
Sale Prices 1112&87 Fri.-Sat. 1 Dam-midnight 
unless otherwise noted Stroh's 30 pack $7.55 
~1!(!!111111111111111111111!~~:=.., 
Miller $8.79 
Budweiser $8.7g
Miller Lite 57.75 
Miller Draft $8.79
Bud Ute $8.79
Schaeffer $4.99 
Miller Lite $8.7g
Busch $7.59
Pabst ss.59 
Milwaukee's Best $5.8g
Goebels $5.89 Hamms $6.89 
Old Milwaukee and Lite $5.89 Old Style $7.g9 
Little Kings Case $6.19 Pabst $6.89
Lowenbr11u bottles $10.69 Schlitz $5.99 
Maister Brau $5.89 Schaeffer $5.89
Michelob and Lite bottles $10.69 Stroh's 30 pack $8.59
"Great" Liquor and Wine Specials 
Import-BottlesJoin us 
Corona $18.89 in Frank's Place Lounge 
Heineken $16.89 
Heineken Dar~ $16.89 Moosehead b:14.29 Molson $12.89 
Prices are subject to change at any time ­
Quantity while supplies last 



_ 
---------~-~-~-~~ -~­
page 4 The Observer FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 
First .snowfall tells of winter's arrival 
By MARIA DOTI 
Staff Reporter 
Heavy sweaters, parkas and gloves may not be needed this winter. November is coming to an end and snowflakes have only just begun to fall. Local weathermen have mixed feelings about the coming win­ter and feel it may be difficult to make any predictions. 
"Our precipitation for this winter will be about normal, with below normal tempera­tures," said Don Savage, a weather service specialist at the National Weather Service office in South Bend. 
Dick Addis, weather reporter for WNDU-TV, said he heard rumors of a harsh, cold winter. Addis says he tends .to agree that a blizzard is long overdue for northern Indiana, and this just be the time. 

The Weather Service shows the jet stream dipping down in a southeasterly direction, blowing cold air right over the South Bend area. 
Ifthe lake effect remains~sta­ble, total snowfall for this win­ter will. be close to 72.5 inches. 
According to Paul Silvestri at WSBT-TV, "It's hard to make a long-range prediction and still maintain accuracy." He said he has received reports from the National Weather Ser­vice that claimed up to 60 per­cent accuracy. 
Only time will tell as to whe­ther winter will bring five-foot drifts or simply freezing tem­peratures. Although the weat­hermen are still uncertain, Christmas this year may be a white one. 
Brrrrrrr! 
November High:54 Low:23-35 
December High:32-40 Low:15 
January 
High:33 
Low:10-14 
PART TIME JOBS 
COULD $1,000 + 
LIGHT UP YOUR CHRISTMAS? 
Start now and you could earn $1,000 + in the next three months to buy presents for everyone on your list, including yourself...and continue earning into The New Year. 
• 
$4.50 per hour guaranteed with planned Increases. 

• 
Modern, professional offices in South Bend. 

• 
20-25 Hours per week. 

• 
Variety of schedules. 

• 
No experience required. 

• 
Company paid training. 

• 
Paid vacation and holidays. 

• 
Generous Montgomery Ward discount. 


The Signatt;re Group is the exciting direct marketing subsidiary of Montgomery Wird and Mobil Oil. Our part time telemarketing positions offer an ideal way to help make ends meet. If you have good reading skills and a pleasant telephone personality, we need you to talk with our customers across the country and ex­plain the products and services we provide. NO COLD CALLS. 
You and/or someone you know can earn important extra dollars for the months ahead. Start next week and solve your holiday money problems. 
Call 236-4206 
10 AM to 5 PM weekdays. 
flit 
SIGNATURE 
Equal Opportunity Employer m/f 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 
Indiana judge 'sentences' six teenagers to city jail for poor school grades 
Associated Press 
HAMMOND, Ind. -A judge said Thursday he had no recourse but to send six teen­agers to jail for receiving poor school grades in violation of the probation he had imposed for their underaged drinking. 
City Judge Peter Katie on Wednesday revealed he had or­dered the five boys and one girl behind bars over the past two weeks after they received grades of D and F on their report cards. 
The students each had been ordered to improved their grades to no less than a C as a term of probation he imposed earlier this year when they were convicted of possessing alcohol at underage beer­drinking parties at parks along Lake Michigan in this Chicago suburb. 
"I don't like to send them to jail, but the stick that I have is the jail sentence," Katie said Thursday between calls of re­action from the public, mostly in support of his decision. 
However, Jean Thurman, director of Project Justice and Equality, a program advocat­ing jail and prison reform based in neighboring Gary, criticized the judge for sending juveniles to jail for "drinking beer and making bad grades. Those aren't criminal offen­ses." 
Four of the boys are serving 60-day sentences at the Lake County Jail in special cells sep­arate from the adult-felon pop­ulation in a juveniles-only sec­tion, the Gary Post-Tribune reported in Thursday's edi­tions. The four are eligible for release within 30 days for good behavior. 
Katie said he warned the 
teen-agers weeks ago this could 
happen. 
"I told them, 'You got your­self in this bind. You are going to shape up your grades, cut out the dope and alcohol, cut the nonsense out and if you don't do that you are going to jail.' 
"These are people who have said no to their parents, teach­ers, principals, ministers, police and now, after I, the judge who has the ability to send them to jail, told them what the conditions are, they come back and say no to me, too," Katie said. 
The University Counseling Genter is Pleased to Sponsor 

Time:  7:00 P.M.  
Place:  117 ·Haggar  
Date:  21 November 1987  

The Observer page 5 

Global proportions 
Mike D'Amico and Charlie Pilliod discuss the world's business in Hurley Hall Thursday. The globe anchores the the lobby of the older of the University's two business buildings, many of whose classrooms have been converted to faculty offices during the last couple of years. 
Mexico threatened by peso dive 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -The peso plunged for the second straight day Thursday, amid official statements that the govern­ment halted its free-market support of the currency to prevent a substantial drain on Mexico's international reserves. 
The government also said the tumbling peso should not worsen Mexico's heated infla­tion, which already was ex­pected to reach a record 140 percent this year. 
The peso on Thursday fell to a rate of up to 2,600 to the U.S. dollar at private exchange houses and major banks, down about 15 percent from Wednes­day and 45 percent below the close of trading on Tuesday. 
Private exchange houses and banks set a dollar purchase 
Wholesale Prices -IBM ' Compatibles 
•IBM™ 
XT & AT Compatible Microcomputers 

• 
Complete systems starting at $669 jncludjng monitor 

• 
Full line of component parts & acx:essories 

• 
360 day warranty backed by local service department 

• 
See our system at NO Comp. Ctr. Micro Demo Lab COMTALK COMPUTER SYSTEMS 


271-0444 
#19 6910 N. Gumwood-Gran er, IN 

/JC=fl!E#J!Rl/J~ 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
rate of as high as 3,000 pesos, but few were selling dollars. Major banks set the selling price at 2,550 pesos, but gener­ally were not offering dollars. 
The peso began plunging in the free market on Wednesday, apparently due to investor worries about uncertainty in the financial markets. 
Treasury Secretary Gustavo Petricioli told Congress the government stopped selling dollars in the free market Wed­nesday morning, in the face of demand by private companies who decided to make foreign debt payments early and by in­vestors fleeing the Mexican stock market, which plunged a total of more than 27 percent on Monday and Tuesday. 
Petricioli said the action was taken to help prevent depletion of Mexico's foreign hard cur­rency reserves. Mexico's reserves are at a record $15 bil­lion, due to increased exports and loans from foreign banks, but the government does not plan to boost them further this year, he said. 
Youngest teen to get heart transplant dies at 18 

Donl 
be afraid 
ofthe Dark: 
Rich, full-bodied taste that's Michelab SIDDDih. 
lnl-pacts 
<C'~Anheuser-Busch. Inc Sl Louta. Mo 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -A teen­ager who was the nation's youngest heart transplant recipient when he received a heart six years ago, fainted at high school and died, his father said. 
"He always recovered from everything -we were starting to think modern medicine could handle it all," said Richard Wann, Eric Boyd's father. 
Eric died at University Hospital on Wednesday, six days before the sixth anniver­sary of the transplant, per­formed because he suffered from a chronic heart muscle disorder. 
"Eric drove, he dated -he could do everything 18-year-old boys do," Wann said. "That's why this is such a terrible shock to us all." 
Eric had been experiencing tissue rejection flare-ups on and off since the summer, but it was a heart attack that he finally succumbed to, his fa­ther said. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987
page 6 The Observer 


Professor Renata Duda teaches a begining ballet technique class at Saint Mary's. Ballet students are put through a variety exercises at the bar at the begining of class to dancing. 
warm-up muscles for serious 
Michel said the purpose of
G0 rba c he v the planned Dec. 7-10 summit "is to finalize details of a very continued from page 1 important arms agreement. There is no logical reason to A spokesman for House obscure the purpose of the visit Speaker Jim Wright said Tues­or give it an inappropriate sym­day . the White House had re­bolic value" by having a joint quested that Gorbachev be in­meeting. vited to address a joint meeting Michel's stance threw the in­of Congress at 10 a.m. on Dec. vitation into grave doubt, be­9, and that Congress had set the cause he is one of four top con­wheels in motion for the event. gressional leaders whose approval would be needed to However, a senior adminis-formally open the doors of tration official who spoke on Congress to Gorbachev, said a condition of anonymity said, Republican aide. "all along the White House felt Seventy-five conservative the most appropriate thing House members signed a letter would be a breakfast or urging Reagan to arrange an­luncheon meeting" with some other venue for Gorbachev to members of Congre~~· meet with Congress. 
----------------~~-----­
Airlines 
continued from page 1 
cident, met Federal Aviation Administration requirements. 
But aviation experts said the overall experience level of pilots at rapidly expanding air­lines, even some of the indus­try's largest carriers, has fal­len off in recent years. 
"This is one of the areas of concern that we have today. 
There's been such rapid expan­sion that (pilots) have come up (the senior system) rapidly and the total level of experi­ence can drop," said Homer Mouden, a former commercial pilot and vice president of the Flight Safety Foundation. 
FAA Administrator Allan Me Artor said Thursday that the "overall experience ... (and) overall flight hours of pilots is of some concern" to him and that the agency even before the Denver accident. 
Boycott 
continued from page 1 
sically the black workers' pen­sions are being invested in the organization that's killing them off," he said. 
The Anti-Apartheid Network is currently gearing up to launch a publicity blitz for the boycott, which is scheduled to start officially on Jan. 18, Checkett said. Local news sta­tions and radio talk shows have expressed an interest in doing segments on the boycott, he said. The Anti-Apartheid Net­work also appeared in the "Stepping Stones" program on Heritage Cablevision, Checkett said.­
"In order for this to work, we need wide, wide campus sup­port," Checkett said. 
Also, the group will be at the Hesburgh Library, LaFortune Student Center and at the steps of the Administration Building to encourage students to resolve in writing that they will not consume Coca Cola prod­ucts, said Checkett. 
Scientists 
continued from page 1 
revitalized only if a consider­able number of the scientists and engineers now serving the military were transferred to · the commercial industries. 
He stressed, however, that this conversion of engineers and scientists from the mili­tary to civilian jobs could go smoothly "only if advanced preparation on a highly decentralized basis. . . is carried out." 
Simply removing these re­sources from the military by means of a budget cut would not solve the problem, Dumas said. "You have to reconnect them," he said, "to productive civilian research and develop­ment. "That requires conver­sion, not simply budget cuts." 
He concluded by saying that a system must be set up to con­vince military engineers and · scientists that their options are not, "make weapons or be out of work. (Rather) make weap­ons or something else." 
The group is planning to hold a meeting to recruit students to organize the boycott. "Ideal­ly, we would have a committee for each dorm. If we could do that, it would be a dream come true," Checkett said. 
Each dorm committee would attempt to persuade dorm leaders to exclude Coca Cola soft drinks from SYRs, formals and foodsales. Checkett said banishing Coke from the campus would be no small ac­complishment. "There's a lot of Coke machines on campus," he noted. 
Checkett said he would also meet soon with William Hick­ey, director of University Food Services, to discuss the removal of Coke from campus cafeterias. "This is in no way a confrontation. (Food Ser­vices has) supported numerous. boycotts in . the past," said Checkett. He said he was un­certain about the prospects of Food Services banning Coke, however. "I do not know what kind of a contract they have un­der Coke," he explained. 
Checkett said that "everyth­ing is going to be done totally to avoid giving the impression that it is a "small group of stu­dents trying to restrict other students' buying power," he said. "This is a way for the stu­dents to show their voice." 
Checkett said he was confi­dent about the response which the campaign would elicit from the students. "I was very im­pressed with the participation in the fast. There was very little advance publicity and yet 
about  100 students  partici­ 
pated."  
By  contrast,  he  did  not  

foresee much success in con­verting the University admin­istration to the group's cause, citing the Board of Trustees' recent decision to refuse to take a tougher stance against South Africa. "I think the administra­tion's policy is a total failure," he said. 
Checkett denied, however, that the group was singling out Coca Cola because its presi­dent, Donald Keough, also chairs Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. "The boycott is part of a nationwide effort,'' he said, adding that the boycott has been in the making for almost 
by the book." The wants 
-~~~!*'*************~
* *
* * 
! ·~ * 
: ~~0 
~ e;~~#·
*~~ \J~ 
~ 
~ 
i 
.... 
* .... * 
..1\'lr* 
~'* 
~~ ~ 
*
*
*
*
* 
\")~ ~ 0~~~~~\)i 
-~ 4~• 0 ~ 
~v ~ ~ 
~o a 
*
* 
*----*~•*'************'t. 

••• ALUMNI ~~:~@~~''*'-~«-W!II.%"JfJJO~;M;­-SENIOR ':>.=:~:::::;::::::w:M*~~,,. 
&!:CLUB 
OPEN qpm -2 aWV\ 
FRIDAY SEAGRAM•s :~~~! RED STRIPE BEER ST. PAULl DARK 
SATURDAY 
DOMESTIC DRAFT 
BACA~Pt~ 
I_RlS~ J.lURRICANE.S 
Sotl~Jf, WE,RE 
75¢. 75t 
CLOSED 
I'OR iiiANI(S,IVIN& 
8~&41(. 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 The Observer page 7 
Security Beat 

Wednesday, November 18 
10:30 a.m.-A graduate student re­ported that he lost his wallet between 4 and 5 p.m. in the area of the Hes­burgh Library and JACC. 
10:45 a.m.-A St. Joseph Hall resi· dent reported that his bookbag was stolen from the Audio Learning Cen­ter on the second floor of the Hes­burgh Library between 9 p.m. on Nov. 17 and 9 a.m. on Nov. 18. His loss is estimated at $45. 
11:25 a.m.-An Elkhart resident re­ported that her car was struck while it was parked in Orange Field be­tween 11 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Nov. 14. Damage to her car is estimated at $200. 
2:35 p.m.-A Badin Hall resident re­ported that her radiot:assette player was stolen from the Engineering Auditorium at about 10 a.m. on Nov. 
13. Her loss is estimated at $45. 
3:39 p.m.-A Holy Cross Hall resi­dent reported the theft of a rented barbeque grill from the South Quad near the Law School. The loss is set at $50.75. 
4:08p.m. -Security responded to a call concerning a minor traffic acci­dent in the A15/arking lot. Nobody was injured an damage was mini­mal. 
5 p.m.-A Howard Hall resident re­ported the theft of her gold necklace from her room between 1:30 a.m. on Nov. 16 and 7 a.m. on Nov. 18. Her loss is estimated at $360. 
5:20 p.m.-A Braidwood, Ill. resi­dent reported that his car was struck while it was parked in the stadium lot near gate 8. 
Thursday, November 19 
2:30 a.m.-A Morrissey Hall resi­dent reported the theft of cash from his room during Wednesday, Nov.18. His loss is set at $190. 
11:40 a.m.-Security arrested a fugitive in the lobby of the Notre Dame Credit Union. The man was wanted for failure to appear in court on misdemeanor charges. The suspect was transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
12:42 p.m.-A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft of her coat from the Alumni Senior Club between 
11:45 p.m. and 1 a.m. on Nov.14. Her loss is estimated at $80. 
1:10 p.m.-A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his backpack from the South Dining Hall between 
12:25 and 12:55 p.m. His loss is esti­mated at $65. 
"'~"-'i!i:'-U 
Eau Ia Ia 


Students pool their resources inside Regina Hall pool is flanked by language arts classrooms. which houses the Regina pool for student use. The
• 
1 
morning at this remote desert vitation from the State Depar­
~~ ***********:
$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO 
~lV WEEKEND ~ 
SUCCESS. 
~ BEFORE BREAK~ 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial benefits 
£ 
iC
wonh as much as $25,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
All these benefits are provided for one purpose: to educate and tr.1in qualified young men and \\'omen to serve as commissioned officers in the Navv. 
_i, Friday·
·The 0:a,·y pays for tuition. textbooks, instructional fet."S, and gives you 
'"" . 
an allowance of$100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years 
ic 
ofcollege. [pon gr.1duation and completion of requir~mcnts, you'll become 
~ 
an important part of the Navy adventure as a Navy ofhcer. 
iC
Call your Navy representath·e for more information on this challenging 
_iof
and rewardi~g program. 
~Saturday: 
~
For more information call Lieutenant Commander Tim Wieand 
at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 
iC 
~ Sunday:
NAVY~OFFICER. 
ic 
• 
/ 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez 
tment's Arms Control and Dis­
armament Agency. 
The Soviets were shown 
either a live shell or prototype 
of each chemical weapon in the 
U.S. arsenal, including ar­tillery projectiles, mortar rounds, bombs, land mines and aerial spray tanks. The U.S. weapons are filled with liquid nerve or mustard agent, both of which are vaporized and dis­persed by small explosive charges upon impact. 
Mustard blisters the skin, mucous membranes and lung tissue. Nerve agent acts on the central nervous system, im­pairing basic bodily functions. 
Nazarkin characterized the visit to Tooele as an indication that negotiations between his country, the United States and 14 other countries to ban chemi­cal weapons are nearing agree­ment. 
~THE iC 
~...l,~~~fE:cc, £
open 8-2 Movie: Monty Python's iC The Meaning of Life ic 9:00pm iC DJ's playing your favorites iC after the .film. ic 
iC
DJ's Tom Sloane and iC Marty Crowe iC Open 12-6 i( 
Build your own subs!! ~ $2 all you can eat ic 


ic take a study break, watch someicLEAD THE ADVENTURE. _i, football, or J¥st ha[LJJ out. "'( 
~ ••••••••••.••.•••• 
The Observer FRIDAY NOVEMBER 20, 1987 
nouncing The Grand Opening Of The World's Greatest 


usic & Video Store 
Super Store-Wide Sale Friday & Saturday Only Open 'Til Midnight 



Peaches Music & Video Indian Ridge Plaza Mishawaka 
Thousands of Compact Discs On Sale 
$)2.99~ 
Single album discs only. $2.00 off all imports and other regularly priced CO's. Regular prices must be $10.00 or higher. 
10 pm to Midnight Only, 
Every CD 
in Stock 
SJJ.2 
Single album discs only. Imports excluded. Limit 6. 
Hundreds of CBS cassettes to choose from including: 
D Adam & the Ants D Journey D Psychedelic Furs 
.D Aerosmilh 0 Judas Priest 0 Quiet Riot D Pat Benatar 0 Kansas 0 R.E.O. Speedwagon D Charlie Daniels Band 0 Huey Lewis & the News 0 Simon &Garfunkei D Chicago 0 Loverboy 0 Bruce Springsteen 0 Dead or Alive 0 Men at Work 0 Survivor 0 Neil Diamond 0 Eddie Money 0 'Til Tuesday 0 Bob Dylan 0 Aldo Nova 0 Luther Vandross 0 Earth, Wind & Fire 0 Ted Nugent 0 Stevie Ray Vaughan 0 Billy Idol D Ozzy Osbourne 0 Wharn! 0 BlllyJoel 0 Pink Floyd 0 Paul Young 

• .aishawaka! 
784 Grape Rd. 
5. Rid•e P\aJG
\ndtan ' 9.. , 
l219) 271-0 u 
Cassette or LP same low price. Available on CD for only $12.99. 
Cassette or LP · $5.49 Cassette or LP · $5.49 Cassette or LP. S5.99 Compact Disc. $12.99 Compact Disc -$12.99 Compact Disc-$12.99 
Cassette or LP · $5.99 Cassette or LP-$5.99 Cassette or LP-S5.99 Compact Disc . $12.99 Compact Disc-512.99 Compact Disc. S12.99 
\01111\L tllo..l !Ill ..,L \ 
Cassette or LP -$5.99 Cassette or LP • $5.99 Cassette or LP -$8.99 Compact Disc -$12.99 Compact Disc -$12.99 Compact Disc -$12.99 

~----1 
HHI'CE SPHI:IOI;STEE.'\ 
PINK FLOYD 
Tl '\\1.1.01-1.0\1·: 
A MOMENTARY LAPSE 
OF REASON f•t
e..u,,nl o.~~~~!';'ane Step Up -~ 
Tough~r• Th•n The Rest/Tunnel()! Lowe 
II'ICWd•"'l "'­
l'woF.ces 
o..u:;~~~~~m<rngw:.., 
~IL 

page 9 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 
Impending death forces painful choices 

Smiley-face stickers held the wires that monitored the comatose man's ir­regular heart beat. Vitamin-carrying IV tubes pierced his wrists, and cat­heters carried urine from a bladder that no longer functioned properly. A tube, a sort of high-tech umbilical ~ord, snaked its way from a nearby respirator into the man's nostril and down the back of his throat to his lungs. His body lay motionless except for the rhythmic rising and falling of his chest. He was my father. 
Kathy Scarbeck 
guest column 
Dad, like many of the dangerously 
ill, depended on artificial devices to 
stay alive. Several small heart attacks 
had weakened his heart, and 
pneumonia filled his lungs with fluid. 
His condition had triggered three 
progressively more serious Code Blue 
alerts. Yet during the four weeks he 
was hospitalized, Dad fought against 
his life support systems. 
He grudgingly agreed to the respirator only after my family and I had pleaded with him. Days later, Dad pulled the respirator tube from his throat. Technicians re-inserted the tube only to find it later dangling from his bed. When Dad could no longer tolerate the respirator forcing oxygen into his lungs, he asked my mother to "get rid of that monstrosity." The next day she asked Dad's doctor if he would remove the machine. "I can't do that," the doc­tor replied, "It would be murder." 
Although it hurt watching Dad die slowly, it was even more painful watch­ing him fight the very machine that kept him alive. But removing the ap­paratus would expedite his death, and we, legally, perhaps morally, could be lumped into the same category as cold­blooded murderers. Our crime would be all the more horrible because we'd be killing someone we loved. Even though the doctors had told us he was about to die and although Dad pleaded with us to unhook the machinery, this act ran counter to all I'd ever known-­that human life should be respected and that the preservation of all life is its own justification. 
How could I kill the man who used to pull me around our block in a red wagon, who took me for Sunday mor­ning driving lessons? Dad had worked hard to support his family; he often came home late at night, exhausted from a long day at work. Whenever his birthday or Christmas came around, I'd asked what I could get him. "Peace and quiet," he replied, only half joking. 
I was unable, finally, to give even that. Through weeks of intense pain, Dad couldn't speak because the respirator tube partially obstructed his throat. For a while he communicated by writing messages, but he soon stopped. Dad wouldn't look at us when 
Doonesbury 
5/R.! IT'S
Y£5, 7H/5 {5U)R/) 
/JeAN HONeY! 7HANK GOOlJ­
tZONKCR. 
NC93IFaJNlJ : \ 'rVU.t 
! 
we spoke to him; his gaze wandered 
about the room. He didn't seem to know 
what to do with all that pain. He didn't 
want to prolong this kind of life. 
But my family and I are Catholic. We respect life. We contribute to anti­abortion campaigns and oppose the death penalty. Who are we to play God and say when someone should die? 
I had asked myself this question not long before Dad's illness. As a high scfiool junior studying euthanasia in my Christian Morality class, I had learned euthanasia literally meant "good death" and was commonly referred to as "mercy killing." My teacher told how some people could rationalize in­jecting fatal doses of drugs into the ter­minally ill. These people said anyone on the verge of death should have the right to choose when to die. With just one shot, a person could be put out of his misery like an injured horse. My teacher concluded that euthanasia was immoral. While the motive may be ad­mirable, she explained, the act itself is, quite simply, murder. It cannot be justified. . 
I was an obedient 16-year-old who had always done what I was told. If the sun were shining and my mother told me to take an umbrella to school, I'd do what she said. I never missed a curfew, and I didn't give my teachers any prob­lems. I respected authority. I trusted people whom I thought were wise enough to know what was "right." 
But when Dad asked to have the respirator removed, I couldn't bring myself to even consider the implica­tions of his request. Dad was asking for his own death and, according to the Church, we'd all be guilty of murder. He'd have to continue using that ma­chine; it was the right thing to do --the Church said so. Or so I thought. 
My teacher had also explained about how the Catholic Church makes a dis­tinction between "extraordinary" and 
"Although it hurt watching Dad die slowly, it was even more painful watching him fight the very machine that kept him alive." 
"ordinary" treatment given tc,'the ter­minally ill. "Extraordinary" methods, she said, do not imply reasonable hope of benefit, but "ordinary" methods do. , Critically ill patients often reach a point in the dying process where life­prolonging devices such as respirators can do no more than postpone the in­evitable. All of this seemed abstract, a matter of semantics. But my teacher did make a painfully relevant final point: Catholics are not morally bound to use extraordinary means to preserve life. 
Now I felt the terrible burden of having to make a life and death deci­sion. Our family could choose to remove Dad from the respirator, as­suming the doctors would allow it. Such ~n act did not force death; it was not euthanasia. If we did unhook the ma­chine, though, we would have to accept the possibility that Dad almost cer­tainly would die. 
We also had to consider "what Dad would have wanted." He had argued against using the respirator since the doctors had first recommended it. The tube dangling from his bed reminded us of that. Just before Dad eventually lapsed into a coma, he wrote my mother a note that said he didn't want my bro­ther, sister, and me to enter his hospital room. I knew he was suffering and he didn't want us to see him in that con­dition. It hurt to be shut out but, in a sense, we were bringing it upon our­selves by allowing the respirator to remain. After all, it was Dad's life, and in the four weeks preceding his coma, he was coherent enough to make the decision that he didn't want to live in pain. 
"Dad was asking for his own death and according to the Church we'd all be guilty of murder." 
Dad wanted to die, but I couldn't let him. When I first heard that he had asked to have the machine turned off, I immediately looked for excuses to for­bid it. He was on medication and had just experienced several minor heart attacks. Of course Dad didn't realize what he was doing. He was helpless, and it was his family's responsibility to think for him. 
But maybe this shouldn't even have been our decision. Doctors deal with such cases every day; maybe they are more qualified to decide when life­prolonging measures should be used. My family and I were just too ex­hausted and too emotional to remain objective. Maybe we needed a doctor to tell us that Dad should stay on the respirator. 
Then again, my family and I had known Dad for years; we knew him bet­ter than any medical specialist ever could. To the doctors he was a name on a chart, a patient in an ICU ward. Perhaps Dad's doctor had advised the respirator, because he didn't want an­other patient's death on his record. 
But I knew what they didn't. Dad couldn't tolerate the suffering; he needed "peace and quiet." . Although the doctors told us my fa­ther had no hope of surviving, I kept believing they were wrong. One night during his first week in the hospital, the doctors told us to call a priest be­cause Dad wouldn't live through the night. But he did survive that evening and for weeks after. The doctors had been wrong once; surely they could be wrong again. 
Besides, God wouldn't let Dad die if we prayed hard enough. My mother said countless novenas and rosaries; my sister and I prayed for him in school. Maybe God was just testing our faith, waiting until the last minute before He would save Dad. 
Finally, I simply could not allow myself to take an active part in my father's death. It would have meant having to live forever with the nightmare of "what if" --what if a miracle would have happened, what if the doctors could have saved him? I denied my father's request for "peace and quiet,'' because I couldn't deal with the horror of possibly admitting defeat prematurely. Dad had to suffer, then, until something happened. 
And it did happen. Almost four weeks after Dad entered the hospital, he slipped into a coma. A lab report showed irreversible brain damage. Three days later he died. 
"Dad couldn't tolerate the suffering; he needed 'peace and quiet."' 
My father's request for "peace and quiet" was f~nally granted when his blood pressure dropped to a critical point. All of those high-tech devices just couldn't save him. We entered Dad's hospital room not long after he died. The respirator was pushed back from Dad's bed and IV tubes no longer cut into his flesh. "I guess we knew it was coming," my mother said, looking at his lifeless body. Now it was over, and Dad could finally be at rest. 
Kathy Scarbeck is a senior En­glislvGerman major. 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in View­point. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.0. Box Q, View­
point Department, 
46556 
Garry Trudeau 
TfiEN (}(JR Y~SIR.. I..CWG NATIONAL /JOY(){} NIGIITMAR& tuANTTO 
150Vl3R. CfJM& IN ON \ 50J1& FlOIU­
~IUITH M/3~ 
Notre Dame, IN. 
Campus Quote 
"If you look ahead and are dis­couraged, look behind you and 
see what plished."  you  have  accom­ 
Andy Barlow Class of 1988  


Viewpoint
page 10 
FRIOAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 
Early bowl bids do little but disappoint 
Last Saturday we witnessed the most convincing win at Notre Dame Stadium in the 1980s. However, while you were celebrating at the game, I was on the edge of my seat in front of the CBS broadcast here in Nome, Alaska where we are enjoying our first blizzard. I am spending my first postgraduate year working at KNOM Radio, a Jesuit Volunteer Corps placement. Fortunate­ly, virtually every Notre Dame game has been broadcast in Nome, and with the help of a South Bend Tribune sub­scription, I have enjoyed ND's fantastic season almost as much as any Notre Dame student. 
Timothy J. Clulo 
guest column 
The Alabama game was the highlight of my otherwise work filled weekend. Only one thing spoiled it, and of course it had nothing to do with what was hap­pening on the field. As usual at halftime, CBS turned its attention away from the Notre Dame Band to scores from other games and a look at the "bowl picture". It was rather dishear­tening to hear the Cotton Bowl Presi­dent, standing on the field at Notre Dame, state that Notre Dame's new Executive Vice-President and Athletic Director had given the Cotton Bowl a verbal commitment while the Orange Bowl Chairman was saying, live from Miami, that Notre Dame deserved to play for the National Championship if the Irish beat Alabama, Penn State, and Miami. "Disheartened" would be a poor description of my reaction. In reality, the words that shot from my mouth as I bounced off the ceiling are unprintable. 
Several questions raced through my mind. How could the Notre Dame ad­ministration sell our team short? The team Notre Dame would play in the Cotton Bowl will undoubtedly be the worst team to play in a New Year's Day Bowl. It may not even be ranked in the Top 20 on January first. 
Secondly, hasn't the Notre Dame ath­letic administration learned from its previous mistakes with early bowl game wheeling and dealing. In 1983, Notre Dame was embarrassed when it was forced because of a premature dealing to take a 6-5 team which finished with three losses to a bowl game. That team did not deserve the rewards of a bowl, and neither does this Notre Dame team if it lost its last three. No one could tell the athletic adminis­tration better than Coach Holtz that Notre Dame c·ould have lost to Alabama on Saturday. With a key injury here and a bad break there, Notre Dame could easily lose to Penn State and Miami too. Let's leave it to men of ques­tionable integrity like Jimmy Johnson at Miami to talk and negotiate bowls weeks before the season ends. Many may be saying that bowl commitments at mid-season are a reality today. If that is the case, Notre Dame should step aside, revert to its former policy of not attending bowls regardless of the multimillion dollar paydays, and work for a playoff system. I am a firm sup­porter of the bowl rather than playoff format. However, if bowls cannot wait until the season ends to solidify deals and commitments, playoffs may be necessary for the good of college foot­ball. 
Thirdly, how can the Notre Dame team be expected to be at their best week in and week out when the athletic administration is not doing its best for them? What kind of a message does a Cotton Bowl commitment send to the team? "Well boys, you play your hearts out and beat the best teams college has to offer each week. However, on Janu­ary first, we have you scheduled to play a team that's lost two or three games against weak competition and may not be in the Top 20. But the Notre Dame Athletic Department does have a three million dollar check in its account." If I were on the team, that's the way I would see it. 
Finally, when I cooled off a bit, I won­dered if maybe the Cotton Bowl Presi­dent had exaggerated about his discus­sions with Notre Dame officials and if the Orange Bowl Chairman had recon­sidered giving Miami an unconditional berth in the Orange Bowl. I can only hope that this is what happened on Sat-· urday and that the Notre Dame athletic administration considers all its options, considers the great team for which it is acting, and considers its mistakes of the past. Coach Holtz said it best in a post game interview with CBS. He un­characteristically looked into the fu­ture more than one week. If we win, he said, we want to play the best and that would be in the Orange Bowl. 
Timothy J. Clulo is a 1987 graduate of Notre Dame and is a member of the Jesuit Volunteer Corps in Nome, Alaska. 

Pressure abounds in live television 
If you believe in the Nielsen ratings system, then you'll accept as fact that about five and a half million people viewed last week's Notre Dame,'Alabama game. I personally don't have much faith in Mr. Nielsen and his 1500 "Nielsen families", but for the purpose of my story I will accept his numbers. The reason that number is important to me is because it is the largest number of people who have ever seen the results of my incompetence. Don't misunderstand me, I have incon­venienced large numbers of people before, but never more than I could per­sonally apologize to. 
Daniel C. Decarlo 
guest column 
Last weekend I had the pleasure of being "tricked" into working (and I use that term loosely) with CBS for their telecast of the big football game. Thursday afternoon I visited a seminar presented by CBS intended to educate students interested in sports television. I sat in the first row and listened to a very interesting presentation about what goes into putting together a na­tionally televised college football game. As it turned out I was too inter­ested; one of the producers sensed my enthusiasm and asked if I would like to help do the show. I jumped at the chance, how fun I thought. Yea fun, if you like that feeling you get when you sleep through a final, then you would have loved the day I had with CBS. 
My job began on Friday when I showed up at the truck and did some typing and running around for odds and ends. Pretty easy actually. The day ended with instructions to be back at 8 
a.m. the next day to help them get ready for kickoff. "You'll probably just be on your own when the game starts." So they told me. I never should have gotten out of bed. 
When I arrived on Saturday morning I sensed that something was different, that coolness had disappeared from the employees and was replaced by a ner­vous tension. Normal, I was told by those who had been through this before. I spent the morning running errands, and doing other insignificant tasks. Mostly I watched how they prepared for what I was slowly realizing was a huge job. About an hour before game time I was summoned on the field to help an assistant, Rob, with "pregame". OK sure, sounds like fun. My day soon unravelled. 
Pregame consisted of coordinating the entrance of the band and the two teams onto the field. Because of a goof with the band my job went from holding the cable of the assistant's head set to wearing the set and cueing the assistant to cue the band. I was not prepared for the responsibility. All of a sudden I was listening to five people yelling at me on a head set. "When we give you the cue Dan you'll give Rob the cue to start the band. Now this is very important, if the band doesn't start on time it will f---up the timing of the whole intro." Just what I needed to hear. You see they told me they would say "wave Dan" when they wanted me to cue Rob. They never did. I was waiting to hear only those exact words, no derivation would do. "Five, four, three, two, one and cue the band, (silence) cue the band, hey Dan cue the band," "Sir do you mean 'wave Dan'." At that point expletives rebounded through my head as a muddled assort­ment of voices yelled "wave Dan." I did wave, but Rob took that point to look up at the band director and not me. I jumped around trying to get his attention but it was no use, the cue had been missed. The producers were screaming at me to drop the head set and go tell Rob, but of course I got tangled up in the wires and never made it out there. After what seemed like an eternity, but was probably about ten seconds, had elapsed Rob finally saw me waving and tripping in the North tunnel and started the band. But the damage had been done. I missed the cue and Brent Musburger was forced to ad iib my mistake. In addition, I had to stand there and listen to all the com­ments from those fans who had wit­nessed my little show. Those com­ments, however, were nothing compared to the assaults that were being hurled at me over the head set. 
The rest of the day was filled with incidents similar to the one just docu­mented. Whether it was losing Brent Musburger's change or being called "an incompetent midwestern boob," my day with CBS was one I will not forget nor repeat. Working in live tele­vision highlights all my weaknesses. Everything happens so quickly and decisions must be made without thinking. It is all instinct. The pressure on the field and in the director's truck is absolutely unbelievable. One mistake can set off the switchboard of every affiliate in the country. 
I learned an awful lot last weekend about television, so much in fact that I know now I want to have nothing to do 
with it. · 
Dan Decarlo is a senior American Studies major. 


Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor·in-Chiel ... ....................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................ Brian Murray Managing Editor .. .. . . . .. . Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
News Editor ... . ............... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ..... .. ...... Melinda Chapleau News Editor .. . ............................ J1m Riley Production Manager. ... .. . . .. .. Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... ...................... Chris Murphy PrOJeCts Manager... . ..... .. . . . . . . .. Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor ... .................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ......................... Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor ... .. .. ......... Michael Naughton Controller... .. .... Tracy Schindele
the administration of either institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor ... .................. Sandy Cenmele Graphic Arts Manager. .. ............... Laura Stanton
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Editor ... . ...................... Jim Carroll
Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
~-~ -...... -........ ---... ---............. " -.. ~ ~ ........... -... -....... -..... -......... -__ , __ ... ------------..... _ ---... ---------.-----4 -.... ---.... --... .
.. ·----... 
·' _;~-_=_:-:-;i~l\Jif-..,;·;;: .:-..~ ·' ...• ...""~~:~~::·t·'--= ...~ ...' ...' .~. ·-~ ·~··~· ·~ • ·'_.. • • ~..~,. •._:;-"'~ i< • .• •.c.., -~•:.r-' 1 91. ,. "·· .. 1 c.'_., •,, ~-" ~ ~-. ~ •.• .. ...,...,. t • -' ~ ;! • • ··: '..; A;.'t.-"'-.·'-' .J PtJf~·~~-:t-..t ..t ....~~P.~t'!-..'•}•·-. + ;t_~:.1!il!<~¥fl",.-~i"S1Jt.~'!I.""'.J."--f...'t-='-_:: _;,_-. _r:_-'lf;"~... , ;· 3'~R-.#,.~-r.?'n_·~-,._... ;..:,.:.1 



By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
Ned Bolcar winces at the subject's very mention. 
Notre Dame's junior linebacker doesn't want to talk about being named to nearly every high school all-America team or his daily diary in the USA Today while he was recruited. 
''High school is high school,'' he says. 
Part of the reason his glorious past has worn thin is that the present is shaping up just fine itself. After a delayed start, he is finally in the posi­tion he expected to be. 
Bolcar has stepped into a starting in­side linebacker slot and has led seventh-ranked Notre Dame's 'No­Name' defense in tackling since the opening game at Michigan. 
Bolcar registered nine tackles that day after tackling some pre-game jit­ters. 
"I was really nervous before the game and (Defensive Coordinator and Inside Linebacker) Coach Fazio came up to me about a half-dozen times and said 'Do you know what you're doing?' and I said 'Do you know what you're doing?' He said 'Yeah' so I said, 'Well, I have confidence in you,' and he said, 'I have confidence in you, too.' That was it, but that really helped." 
Since then, Bolcar has had put up big tackling numbers all season, including 17 against Pitt and 13 against USC, which he calls his best performance. 
But while his junior season got off to a great start, his college career was not quite so smooth at takeoff. 
Bolcar did not get any playing time as a freshman, which he says he was prepared for. But he also saw very little practice time, which he was not so ready to take. 
"The only thing I'm not happy about is that I really didn't get a good learning experience my freshman year," says Bolcar, an economics major. "I didn't get to play special teams, I even asked to be put on the prep teams to get the experience of playing against the older guys. 
"As the season wears on, you work less and less with the third-and fourth­team players because the starters need to prepare for the game every week. I didn't get any work, so I wasn't learn­ing. By the time it came ot my turn we ended the drill. 
"My freshman year, what I did after the first month was stand around," he says. "I gained 20 pounds from just standing there." 
That put Bolcar one year behind 
see BOLCAR, page 2 

-
The Observer 1 Trey Reymond 
the leading tackler for the Irish this season with 87. 
After watching from the sidelines for the beginning of his career, junior Inside linebacker Ned Bolcar (47) has become 
Years of Faustration 

Gerry Faust. The name, when mentioned today, 
• elicits comments like, "he couldn't coach" and "ol' Pinkett, Pinkett, pass, punt," to "he was such a nice man" and "he got a bum rap". 
No matter who you want to believe, it seems that Faust was just the wrong man at the wrong time for Notre Dame football. Irish fans had just watched their last two coaches, Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine, post a combined record of 148-33-5 over 17 years, collect two national championships, earn nearly unanimous respect of players and fans and 
100 Years of Irish Football 
PETE SKJKO 

step down gracefully after sending their final teams to bowl games. 
When Dan Devine resigned at the end of the 1980 season, he was replaced by one of the most suc­cessful high school coaches in the country, Gerry Faust. Faust built himself into a legend at Moeller High School in Cincinnati. He coached his teams to four mythical national prep titles, five Ohio state titles, seven unbeaten seasons and a 174-17-2 record over 18 seasons. 
These were great achievements, even for a high school coach. Although some Irish fans were skepti­cal of the choice to bring someone unaccustomed to the college game in to tackle what might be the most difficult coaching position in the country, no one questioned Faust's winning attitude. 
At the end of his five-year tenure with the Irish, not many doubted Faust's winning attitude, but even less could tolerate his teams' inability to get the big first downs, to make· the key defensive stands or to win the big games. 
It was a stormy five years for Faust and Irish football. In his first season, Faust saw his team, as the number-four team in the country, pick LSU apart at home, 27-9. The win vaulted Notre Dame to the top spot in the rankings, but it didn't stay for long. 
The Irish lost four of their next five, including home losses to Florida State and USC, to drop them well out of the polls. Faust rallied the Irish to blowouts of Navy, Georgia Tech and Air Force before losing their final two on the road to Penn State and Miami. The loss to the Hurricanes assured Notre Dame of its first losing season in 18 years. 
The fans forgave and forgot, and at the start of year two of the Faust regime, the Irish had again been ranked in the top 20, at number 20. And an 
see FAUST, page 2 





page 2 
Bolcar 
continued from page 1 
where he expected to be, but the progress began the next season. 
"My sophomore year was really my freshman year," he says. "I was on all the special teams (Lou Holtz named him captain of the punt team), I set my foundation on the team and proved I could play, like the freshmen are doing now." 
With Mike Kovaleski's graduation, Bolcar and Mike Stonebreaker (who was declared ineligible this fall) were the favorites to earn playing time with Wes Pritchett. Bolcar set out to earn his playing time in the spring drills. 
"I became better fundamen­tally in spring ball," he says. "That's where I made my big­~ gest improvement. "I was in the right position all the time
l 
with the proper technique. 
l 
~ 
"I wasn't quite sure how I stood in the coaches' eyes, but I had the opportunity to play. That gave me confidence be­cause I was the man who had to do the job. I just wanted to go out and do it." 
Which is exactly what he has done. In his first season as a starter, Bolcar has 87 tackles, 

Ned Bolcar 
three tackles-for-loss, two fumble recoveries, two inter­ceptions and one sack. Bolcar's development has been in­stumental in solidifying the Irish defense into a formidable force. 
The Observer 
"We've had a good year so far," he says. "We had a little letdown at Pitt, but yet the team showed something by bouncing back in that game. We bounced back and played well and now with the good game against Alabama, we're ready to have another one this week at Penn State. 
"Pve come a long way and the team has come a long way, but we can get better., we've got to improve every time out there." 
Bolcar has indeed come a long way. After coming in as a celebrity and his freshman­year setback in trying to prove he belonged, the enthusiastic linebacker finds himself in the position he hoped for when he came to the Irish. 
"I get excited for every game," says Bolcar. "This is perfect. I hoped to be in this position-Notre Dame winning and me being a part of that. 
"I'm right on schedule." 
Friday. November 20. 1987 
__,_ 
The Observer I Jim Carroll Bolcar (47) and his teammates on the "No-Name" defense celebrate during the Boston College game. "I've come a long way, and the team has come long way, but we can get better. We've got to to improve every time out there.," Bolcar says. 
I Faust 
I continued from page 1 
opening season win over rival Michigan cut the fans reserva­tions, as well as the Notre Dame ranking, in half. 
Three more wins and the Irish were 4-0, number nine in the country and licking their chops as unranked Arizona made its first trip to South Bend since 1941. But the Irish dropped the game on an Arizona field goal with no time remaining and could manage only a tie at Oregon the follow­ing week. 
Those back-to-hack disap­pointments kept the Irish out of the polls, but just when the Notre Dame faithful started to lament about what might have been, the Irish stunned behind then-freshman Allen Pinkett's two touchdowns. The win brought the fans and the ranking (number 13) back, but not the momentum. Notre Dame dropped its last three to finish the year at 6-4-1. More lamenting about what might have been. 
The Associated Press, if no one else, would not give up on Faust. It granted his squad the number-five ranking in the . country on opening day of the 1983 season, and it looked like the Irish might live up to it in the first game, pounding Purdue 52-6 at West Lafayette. 
into a berth in the Liberty Bowl, a berth many (including some Irish players) didn't feel 6-5 Notre Dame deserved. The Irish defeated Boston College, 19-18, behind two more touch­down runs from Pinkett. 
Once again, despite finishing the previous year unranked, Notre Dame was ranked num­ber eight to begin the 1984 cam­paign. And once again, the Irish failed to live up to the ex­pectations of fans and pollsters alike. An opening-day loss to unranked Purdue at the Hoosier Dome toppled Notre Dame from the polls, but won three straight to re-enter at number 17. 
But then the roof caved in. Consecutive home losses to Miami, Air Force and South Carolina buried the Irish, and only miracle wins at ranked op­ponents LSU and USC could salvage a winning record and a trip to the Aloha Bowl. The warm Hawaiian climate didn't suit the Irish against SMU, however, as the Mustangs gal­loped to a 27-20 win. On fourth down on the SMU 16-yard line and 23 seconds remaining in the game, quarterback Steve Beuerlein's pass to a wide-open Milt Jackson drifted just off his fingertips in the endzone, sum­ming up the frustration of the season. 
In his final season, 1985, Faust's squad went 5-6, and three straight losses to Penn State, LSU, and Miami to close out the year broke the patience of the fans. Three days before the Hurricanes swept the Irish away, 58-7, Lou Holtz was named the next coach of the Fighting Irish. 
As much a quick fix to college football teams as Billy Martin is to the Yankees, Holtz came to South Bend after resurrect­ing a hapless Minnesota team to bowl stature in two years. And Irish fans didn't want five years of rebuilding, they wanted a winner. Holtz made no promises early, but a string of close losses in 1986 threatened to continue what seemed to be endless frustra­tion for the Irish. 
On opening day, 1986, Holtz almost pulled off an incredible upset of third-ranked Mic­higan. Ifnot for an oft-reviewed call in the endzone of a late Joel Williams (non)catch, and a short, left 45-yard field goal at­terp.pt from John Carney with 18 seconds left, it I!light have happened. And it might have been all the Irish needed to carry them ·through yet an­other murderous schedule. 
Instead, tight, hard-fought losses were the rule as Mic­higan State, Pitt, Penn State and LSU joined the Wolverines as teams who nipped the Irish in games that literally could have gone either way. Some consolation came in the season finale at USC, when the Irish rallied from a 37-20 deficit with a little more than 12 minutes remaining to win on Carney's 19-yard field goal with no time left on the clock. 
The close decisions, though obviously heartbreaking, left little doubt that the Irish, under Holtz, would always be compet­itive. Thus far in 1987, Notre Dame's play might be charac­terized more strongly than that. The team's 8-1 record and spirited play against top teams are reminiscent of past squads of Notre Dame's illustrious col­lege football history. Hopeful­ly, Lou Holtz will be able to see his name in the company of some of the immortal coaches which have made the one hundred years of Notre Dame football unlike any other. 
Allen Pinkett Mark Bavaro 



Friday. November 20. 1987 The Observer p.lq<' J 
.­
The Game 



By MARTY STRASEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -Times and teams have changed since the last time Notre Dame visited Penn State's Beaver Stadium. 
A 5-3 Irish squad which had v ·m four games in a row under Gerry Faust en­tered the 1985 game with thoughts of the 44-7 upset of the Nittany Lions from the previous year still in mind. But Penn State had not forgotten that game either, and bombarded the helpless Irish by a 36-6 score in front of more than 84,000 fans to get some revenge. 
This year, it's Coach Lou Holtz' seventh-ranked Irish with something to prove. 
The Nittany Lions held off a Notre Dame threat with a dramatic goal-line stand in the waning moments of last year's game to earn a 24-19 win in the last Irish home game of the season. A potential game-winning pass by quar­terback Steve Beuerlein slipped through the hands of tight end Joel Wil­liams in the end zone. 
Holtz and the 8-1 Irish cannot afford to let Saturday's game (noon, CBS na­tional television) slip away like last year's if they want to hang onto the dream of a possible national champi­onship. 
"Penn State has beaten us five of the last six years," Holtz said at his press conference Tuesday. "We've come an awful long way, and this is an important football game. The players understand how good Penn State is. All the other things are meaningless if we don't win this game." 
Defending national champion Penn State, 7-3, is coming off a 10-0 loss to state-rival Pittsburgh, which marked the first time the Lions had been blanked in 39 games. 
The Lions' other losses were to Ala­bama, 24-13 in the second game of the season, and at Syracuse, where they were routed, 48-21. 
The Irish, meanwhile, are coming off a big win over Alabama last Saturday. Holtz' squad earned a 37-6 triumph over the Crimson Tide behind a big-play of­fense and swarming defense. 
But Beaver Stadium has never been a fun place to play for the Irish. Notre Dame has never won in the three con­tests between the teams there. 
"That's a very difficult place to go up and play in," Holtz said. "A lot of people go there with great expectations and come away awfully disappointed." 
' 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Penn State's defense 
Penn State's defense did not allow Pittsburgh and Division-1A rushing. leader Craig Heyward into the end zone in last Saturday's 10-0 loss. The only points it gave up were on a 44-yard field 
. goal, as the Panthers sealed the win with a 69-yard interception return in the fourth quarter. Coach Joe Paterno's Lions have had similar problems as the Irish this season, with injuries forcing 10 differ­ent starting lineups in as many games. Senior inside linebackers Trey Bauer and Pete Giftopoulos are two of the team's top tacklers on a defense that starts seven to eight seniors. Sophomore defensive back Brian Chizmar leads the team in tackles with 63, but his counterparts in the second­ary have been having some problems with injuries lately. The defensive line is anchored by three seniors who average about 250 pounds -Pete Curkendall (left), Aoatoa Polamalu (nose) and Matt Johnson (right). 
The Lion defense has allowed an average of 112.1 rushing and 224.1 pass­ing yards per game. 
Those numbers would seem to indi­cate that the Irish could have some suc­cess going to the air against Penn State. But anyone who has watched Notre Dame play since Tony Rice took ov~r as starting quarterback in the fifth game of the season knows that Holtz likes to keep the ball on the ground. 
The Irish are averaging 274.7 yards rushing, and if they hang on will reach their best mark in that category since 1974. Meanwhile, their 137.7-yard pass­ing average is the lowest since 1980. 
"Tony is passing the ball better and better each week," said Holtz, who might have to put Rice's arm to the test if the Irish ground game is having trou­ble. 
The multiple-back, multiple-set Notre Dame running attack has been potent in the five-game Irish win streak. Tailback Mark Green has rushed for more than 100 yards in each of the previous weeks, and broke one for a 74-yard touchdown against Ala­bama. Freshman Ricky Watters got in on the act with a 75-yard touchdown of his own minutes later. 
Of course the primary threat to Penn State will be Reisman Trophy can­didate Tim Brown at flanker. Brown 

Penn State's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense 
Last week it was the Tide's Bobby Humphrey the Irish had to stop. This week it's Blair Thomas. 
The Penn State tailback already has gained an even 1,200 yards on the year, the third-best one-year total in Nittany Lion history behind former greats Lydell Mitchell and John Cappelletti. 
"There's no way we can shut off a Blair Thomas, because he's just so good and so quick," Holtz said. "And it's just not the nature of our defense to put 11 people up on the line. We'll just have to continue to do the things we've done in the past. 
"We've had good success against the great backs this year." 
The Lions have had good success when Thomas breaks the 100-yard bar­rier this season. They sport a 7-0 record in those games. 
Senior signal-caller Matt Knitzer will 
. 
_-_, 
was returned 69 yards for the touch­down that put the game out of reach. Seven seniors start in their last home game for the Penn State offense. 
Notre Dame's defense was impres­sive in last Saturday's drubbing of Al­abama, allowing only a pair of field goals and coming up with big play after big play to thwart Crimson Tide drives in the second half. 
Junior inside linebacker Ned Bolcar is having a great year with 87 tackles to lead the team, while senior outside linebacker Cedric Figaro and junior in­side linebacker Wes Pritchett have 49 apiece. 
The Irish defense has had trouble with injuries all year, but will be aided Saturday by the return of junior free safety Corny Southall. ,Southall suf­fered ligament damage in Notre Dame's loss to Pittsburgh, and ran a few plays in the Alabama game a week ago in his first action since the injury. 
The story all year has been stop Thomas, and you can stop the Lions. 
-
page 4 The Observer Friday. November 20. 1987 

The Tale of the Tape 
TEAM STAnSTICS ND OPP PASSING NO co PCT INT YDS TD TEAM STATISTICS PS OPP PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TD RUSHING NO YDS AVO TO LG TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS •3712 2585 Rice 51 23 .451 3 487 1 TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS {3812 3364 Thomas 233 1200 5.2 10 58 Total Plays 664 576 K. Graham 20 15 .750 3 244 1 Total Plays 730 719 Knizner 213 107 .502 11 1438 8 Greene n 420 5.5 6 38 Yards per Play 5.6 4.5 Belles 1 1 1.000 0 27 0 Yards per Play 5.2 4.7 Bill 36 16 .444 4 247 2 Brown 40 267 6.7 3 80 Yards per Game 412.4 287.2 Andrysiak 58 30 .517 3 480 2 Yards per Game 381.2 336.4 PS 252 125 .496 15 1703 10 Barowski 17 59 3.5 0 9 PENAL TIES· YARDS 54-489 38·295 ND 130 69 .531 9 1238 4 PENAL TIES· YARDS 55-463 62-497 OPP 321 177 .551 9 2243 13 Thompson 20 57 2.8 0 8 FUMBLE8-LOST 14-7 22-13 OPP 230 104 .452 11 1365 8 FUMBLES-LOST 1Hl 20-7 PENN STATE 478 21 09 4.4 20 80 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 199 145 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 200 185 OPPONENTS 398 1121 2 8 8 7
RECEIVING NO YDS AVO TD LG
By Rushing 141 61 By Rushing 111 73
Brown 32 729 22.8 3 57
By Passing 46 70 By Passing 79 99
Green 12 93 7.8 0 21 
Schedules
By Penalty 5 1¢ By Penalty 10 13
Watters 5 53 10.6 0 28
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 128-56 125-46 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 154-62 166-58
Heck 4 50 12.5 1 26 Notre Dame (8-1) Penn State (7·3)
Percentage 44 37 Percentage 40 35
Johnson 3 98 32.7 0 51 d. Michigan, 26-7 d. BOWLING GREEN, 45-19
POSSESSION TIME 301:22 238:38 POSSESSION TIME 298:18 301:42
NOTRE DAME 69 1239 17.9 4 57 d. MICHIGAN ST., 31·8 I. ALABAMA, 24-13
Minutes per Game 33:29 26:31 Minutes per Game 29:50 30:10
OPPONENTS 104 1365 13.1 8 57 d. Purdue, 44·20 d. CINCINNATI, 40-Q 
I. Pitt, 30·22 d. Boston College, 27-17SCORING TD PA R·PA S FO TP RUSHING NO YDS AVO TD LG RECEIVING NO YDS AVO TD LG d. Air Force, 35-14 d. TEMPLE, 27-13Gradel 0 31-31 o-o o 14-17 73 Green 127 778 6.1 6 74 Thomas 22 292 13.3 2 67 d. USC, 26-15 d. RUTGERS, 35-21Johnscin 10 o-o o-o o o-o 60 Watters 62 342 5.5 3 75 Timpson 19 296 15.6 0 52 d. NAVY, 56-13 d. TENNESSEE, 41·22Brown 7 o-o 1-1 0 o-o 44 Johnson 66 290 4.4 10 20 Alexander 19 279 14.7 0 40 d. BOSTON COLLEGE, 32·25 I. Syracuse, 48-21Green 6 o-o o-oo o-o 36 Rice 66 284 4.3 5 32 Roundtree 14 347 24.8 5 60 d. ALABAMA, 36·6 d. WEST VIRGINIA, 25·21Rice 5 o-o o-o o 0-0 30 Brooks 47 236 5.0 1 27 Pomfret 12 110 9.2 1 12 Nov. 21 • at Penn St. d. Maryland, 21-1 0 ND 38 33·33 1-5 2 14·17309 NOTRE DAME 534 2473 4.6 30 75 PENN STATE 125 1703 13.6 9 67 Nov. 28 • at Miami I. Pittsburgh, 10·0OPP 9 16 10-14 4-4 0 8-10138 OPPONENTS 346 1220 3.5 8 62 OPPONENTS 177 2243 12.7 13 80 Nov. 21 · NOTRE DAME 
Irish Offense v. Nittany Lion Defense Irish Defense v. Nittany Lion Offense 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE PENN STATE DEFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE PENN STATE OFFENSE PO$ NO PLAYER ttT WT CL LT 73 Pete Curkendall 6·3 260 Sr. OLB 48 Cedric Figaro 6-2 246 Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL SE 83 Reggie Ward 5-10 178 Sr. 79 Dave Szott 6·4 235 So. 7 Andre Jones 6-4 220 Fr. SE 6 Ray Roundtree 6-Q 180 Sr. 
15 p.,, Terrell 192 NT 99 252 87 166
6-0 So. Aoatoa 5·11 Sr. LT Tom Gorman 6·6 260 Jr. 29 Stu Helgeson 5-10 Sr. TE 88 Andy heck 248 Polamalu 95 265 74 6-3 Sr.
6-6 Jr. Ted FitzGerald 6-5 So. ST Stan Clayton 265 
85 Frank Jacobs 6-5 225 Fr. 64 lrv Bellamy 5-11 247 NT 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 246 Sr. 71 Tim Freeman 6-5 263 Jr. LT 76 Tom Rahdar 6-7 263 Sr. 
RT 51 Matt Johnson 6-1 240 Sr. 86 Rich Morrison 6·3 248 Jr. SG 66 Steve Wls-6-4 260 Jr. 
66 Dom Prinzivalli 6·5 263 Jr. RT75 Rich Schonewolf 6-4 250 Jr. 93 Jeff Kunz 6·6 256 Sr. nlewskl 
LG 65 Tom Freeman 6-4 265 Sr. 
OLB 84 Keith Karpinski 6-4 219 Sr. 90 Jeff Aim 6-6 242 So. 60 Ed Monaghan 6-3 258 Jr. 
71 Dean Brown 6-2 273 So. 
95 Andre Powell Fr. OLB 38 Darrell Gordon ti·3 210 Sr. c 78 Roger Duffy 6-3 280 So. c 51 Chuck Lanza 6-2 270 Sr. ILB 35 Trey Bauer 6·1 215 Sr. 30 Frank Slams 6·3 235 Sr. 72 Mike Wolf 6-4 250 Sr. 58 Mike Heldt 6-4 265 Fr. 37 Darryl Washing-6·4 195 Sr. ILB 34 Was Pritchett 6-5 234 Sr. LG 58 Rich Kuzy 6-3 246 Sr. 
ton 36 Don Grimm 6-2 205 Fr. 61 6·5
RG 75 Tim Grunhara 6-3 271 So. Mike Flanagan 265 So. 62 Jeff Pearson 6-2 250 So. ILB 63 Scott Gob 6-Q 230 Jr. LT 50 Mark Sickler 6-4 260 Sr. 
RT 73 Byron Spruell ILB 47
6-4 279 Sr. 90 Pete Giftopoulos 6-3 233 Sr. Ned Bolcar 6·2 235 Jr. 62 Eric Jonassen 6·6 285 So. 61 Pete Rokich 6-7 262 Sr. OLB 92 Quintus 6-2 228 Jr. 49 John Foley 6-3 228 So. TE 88 Pllul Pomfret 6·4 240 Sr. QB 9 Tony Rice 6·2 190 So. McDonald LCB 25 Marv Spence 5-10 179 Sr. 80 Todd Young 6·6 235 Jr. 17 Kent Graham 6-5 225 Fr. 41 Kurt Bernier 6·1 212 Sr. 28 Chris Kvochak 6-1 182 Sr. QB 7 Matt Knlzner 6-3 205 Sr. 
216 So. 198
FB 22 Anthony 6-Q H 28 Brian Chizmar 6·1 208 So. 12 Tom Bill 6-2 So. Johnson 31 Andre Collins 6-3 200 So. FS 5 Brandy Walla 6·1 186 Sr. TB 32 Blair Thomas 5·10 189 Jr. 39 Braxston Banks 6-2 207 So. LCB 19 Gary Wilkerson 6·0 178 Jr. 31 Corny Southall 6-1 186 Jr. 27 Gary Brown Fr. TB 24 Mark Green 5·11 181 Jr. 4 Dwayne Downing 5-1 0 182 Sr. 55 27 George Streeter 6-2 200 Jr. FB 20 John Green 5-11 187 Sr. 
12 Ricky Watters 6·3 180 Fr. s 3 Marques Hen-5·9 190 Sr. 13 Pat Eilers 5-11 198 Jr. 34 Sean Barowski 6·2 230 So. FL 81 Tim Brown 6·0 195 Sr. derson RCB 29 Stan Smagala 5·11 177 So. FL 9 Michael Alexan-6·2 202 Sr. 21 Aaron Robb 6·1 190 Jr. 36 Sherrod Rainge 6-1 198 Jr. 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 174 Fr. dar p 19 VInce Phelan 5-10 170 Sr. RCB 39 Eddie Johnson 5·10 164 Jr. 5 Michael Timpson 5-11 0 Jr. 
' 
20 Greene 34 Barowski 
'32Thomas 
3 Henderson 28 Chizmar 
27 Brown 36 Rainge 31 Collins 
19W!on
' ' 
'7Knlzner 4 Downing 
12 Bill 
9 Alexander 39 Johnson 
63! 
5 Timpson
2 Woods ! ' 35 Bauer 90 Giltopoulos ' 37 Washington 
'
84 Karplna I 95 Powell 
' ' ! ! 
92 McDonald 73 Curkendall 99 Po amalu 51 Jo son 41 Bernier 
' ,!.,"w!.-,.!,...!._
6 Roundtree 50!er 58 Kuzy79 Szott 64 Bellamy 75 Schonewolf 29 Helgeson 62 Jonassen51 Flanagan 72 Wolf 60 Monaghan 71 Freeman 80 Young 
' 
' 
' 
87 Gorman 
94 Griffin 93 Kunz
76 Rehder 65 Freeman 51 Lanza 75 Grunhard73 Spruell 88 Heck83 Ward 48 Figaro 95 FitzGerald 86 Morrison 90 Aim 38 Gordon66 Prinzivalli 71 Brown 58 Heldt 62 Pearson 61 Rokir.h 85 Jacobs15 Terrell 
7 Jones 30 Slams 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
9 Rice 81 Brown 25 Spence 
' ' ' ' '
28 Kvochak
17 K. Graham 21 Robb 
29 Smagala 1 Lyght 
' 
34 Pritchett 47 Bolcar 36 Grimm 49 Foley 
' 
22 Johnson 
' 
61 Banks 
' ' 
27 Streeter 5 Wells 
13 Eilers 31 Southall
' 
24 Green 
12 Watters 
'' 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
- spread.  In  other  words,  it  isn't  
enough to pick the winner of a given game. The persol) must pick the winner and give the underdog  Jane Shea SMC Sports Ed. 51-43-1  Dennis Corrigan Sports Editor 50-44-4  Marty Strasen Asst. Sports Ed. 50-44-4  Pete Gegen Sports Writer 46·46-4  Rick Rletbrock Asst. Sports Ed. 39·55-4  Smith Hashagen Guest Celebrity 44-50-4  Aimee Meccla Random Student 50-44-1  
points. Home team Is In CAPS.  .543  .532  .532  .511  .415  .468  .532  
(last week: 8·5·1)  (last week: 8-5-1)  (last week: 7-6·1)  (last week: 6-7·1)  (last week: 3-10.1)  (last week: 6-7-1)  (last week: 8·5-1)  
NEBRASKA over Oklahoma by 4  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Corhuskers  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  
Ucla over SOUTHERN CAL by 8.5 SYRACUSE over West VIrginia by 13.5 SOUTH CAROLINA over Clemson by 7  Bruins Orangemen Gamecocks  Bruins Orangemen Gamecocks  Trojans Orangemen Tigers  Trojans Mountaineers Gamecocks  Trojans Orangemen Tigers  Trojans Orangemen Gamecocks  Trojans Orangemen Tigers  
Louisiana St. over TULANE by 18 Michigan St. over WISCONSIN by 18.5 OKLAHOMA ST. over Iowa St. by 31 Tennessee over KENTUCKY by 6.5  Tigers Spartans Cowboys Wildcats  Tigers Spartans Cowboys Volunteers  Tigers Badgers Cyclones Volunteers  Tigers Spartans Cowboys Volunteers  Tigers Badgers Cowboys Volunteers  Tigers Spartans Cyclones Volunteers  Tigers Badgers Cyclones Volunteers  
Texas A&M over TCU by 3.5 IOWA over Minnesota by 19 INDIANA over Purdue by 13.5  Horned Frogs Hawkeyes Hoosiers  Aggies Hawkeyes Hoosiers  Aggies Hawkeyes Hoosiers  Aggies Gophers Hoosiers  Aggies Gophers Boilermakers  Aggies Gophers Hoosiers  Aggies Gophers Hoosiers  
VIrginia over N.C. STATE by 2 MICHIGAN over Ohio St. by 6.5  Wolfpack Wolverines  Wahoos Buckeyes  Wolfpack Wolverines  Wolfpack Wolverines  Wahoos Wolverines  Wolfpack Wolverines  Wahoos Buckeyes  
Notre Dame over PENN ST. by 7.5  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  




Accent
page 11 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 
Beaux Arts Bash 
KELLY COOK tumes worn to the dance are friends. Others try to meet new accent writer expected to be extremely elab­people there. But everyone orate. Many students spend goes to check out all the out­
T
he Architecture Club Invites 
weeks considering their cos­rageous costumes. all Notre Dame and Saint 
tume, though they may walt The dance Is not restricted to Mary's students to come to the until Saturday morning to con­
Arkles alone. All classes (evenBeaux Arts Ball being held this 
struct it. freshmen) are Invited, as well Saturday, November 21st. from 
as students from every m~or. 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. at the Archi­This semester's dance Is 
Tickets cost $4 and can still tecture Building. This sponsored by the second and be purchased at the diningmasquerade dance Is the first 
fourth year architecture stu­halls or from any Archltcture of the two balls that are spon­dents. In the spring. another 
student. Even though there are sored by the architecture de­ball will be sponsored by the 
400 tickets available, they gen­
partment each year. Live enter­second and fifth year A. E. stu­erally sell out. so students are tainment will be provided by 
dents. The third year A. E. advised to purchase them ear­the band The Bottom Line. majors hold their own ball In ly.The architecture balls are the Rome during their year abroad. 
As John Kirk. a fourth yearonly club sponsored Although students can bring A. E. major from Grace Hall masquerade dances on 
dates to this dance, many says: "Everyone should come. campus. As In past years, cos-people go stag. Some go with 
It's a blast!" 
Slouching to Bethleh.em 

T
he best lack all conviction I Germany, when the Final Solu­walk. night or day; they hide newspaper propaganda is only 
in a poem about pride by Shel­While the worst are full of tion was being discussed, behind locked doors, yet the a little short of libelous. It ha:. ley, am I not like that shape passionate Intensity." Shake­didn't the architects of the crazies still get-In to brutalize been said of the Irish that they w1th lion body and head of speare wrote: "The devil can death camps wonder at the evil them. Do Yeats's lines come are a fair people who never man, the Image of the beast. cite Scripture for his own pur­logic which was leading them short of the mark: "Things fall speak well of one another. How full of passionate Intensity? pose," and the same can be to do the devll's work for him? apart; the center cannot hold; I could Dr. Johnson know so Is this not pretentious, like said of Yeat's "Second Com­Didn't any of them throw up Mere anarchy Is loosed upon much about the Flghtin' Irish of the Intemperate apocalyptic Ing." Somebody has described their hands In horror at the the world, I The blood-dimmed Notre Dame? imagery with which the Univer­Greta Garbo this way: that If mad project that they were un­tide Is loosed, and everywhere I Maybe the meeting could sity was attacked for Its policy you sin with her In your Im­dertaking In such an efficient The ceremony of Innocence Is take the form of a dance on of selective divestment In agination. you have to congrat­way? drowned." the penthouse of the Memorial South Africa. The Scholastic ulate yourself on your Impec­Do not Christians In 1987 Library. Maybe It could be 
article read: You are neither hot 
cable good taste." Something hear of evils that are so mind­You can disregard Yeats: he sponsored by the Architects as nor cold; therefore I will vomit comparable could be said of lessly mischievous that they has, by now, been quoted and an extension of the Beaux-Arts thee out of my mouth." Does Willie Yeats's poetry: If, In a f1t wonder why society protects misquoted, to the point of trite­Ball? The theme could be: "It Notre Dame deserve that se­of pretentiousness, you quote them: the sex shops on 42nd ness. You can write me off as ain't necessarily so," as In the vere censure? lt. you have to be pleased with street. for example, where the one who has forgotten how to song. "The things that you're your excellent taste In choosing air Is thin with decadence; get any fun out of life, al­liable I to read In the Bible" (a Listen! Anti-Christ Is out something so highbrow. some of them were opened, though In truth, I'm not as 'In­euphemism for the Observer) there, not very far away; but we 

tense as all that. no prophet ... "It ain't necessarily so." don't need Yeats or the Bible to living off locusts and wild­Costumes would be worn, with give us the word; Joan Rivers honey. You can mock the masks off at midnight. Every­will do. "Shall we talk?" she
Father Robert Griffin 
paternalism that wants to warn one could come as members asks. At a summit meeting. students against the hostility of of the devll's party without shall we not talk. In plain sight
Letters to a Lonely God 
a dog-eat-dog world. Facing Its knowing It, as Milton was said of each other, so one party can cold and darkness, they have to be when he wrote Paradise see that the other party doesn't nothing to fear but fear Itself. Lost. Those who read in their have cloven hooves? In thisA lot of name-calling goes on according to the Times, with No one out there Is going to bible the devll's a villain might Christian community, shall not
among us, much of It pas­financial aid from the city, anx­eat them alive, certainly not the find It ain't necessarily so. men and women of good will
sionately Intense. Who Is It Ious to give a hand up to small devil as a roaring lion seeking talk to each other-not necessar­
aimed at. If not the good guys businesses. There used to be whom he may devour, as St. " ... Somewhere In sands of Ily to agree or to forget theirlacking all conviction? For sweat shops In China, where Paul so mythologically Im­the desert I A shape with lion differences, but talk. to hear at
every public debate, In a news­children were fed opium. to agined. After four years of Sun­body and the head of a man, I least what the other Is saying. 
paper or newsletter, are there prevent their feeling hunger­day Masses, N.D. grads know A gaze blank and pitless as the with no time out for snarling?
not a hundred discussions pangs. If such places are all they have a duty to help the sun, I Is moving...what rough Shall we talk. before more
going on In the University? out of business now, how weak and defend the Innocent beast, Its hour come round at people get their feelings hurt.
How many campus gurus do about the school yards In the against the Indifference of the last. I Slouches toward Beth­and Innocent people leave the
we have, working to get the ghettos where pushers make a rich and strong who have lehem to be born?" campus with hatred In their
attention of whoever will listen? living from selling drugs to sworn an allegiance to the anti­Shelley starts a poem: "I met hearts for other people of allDo not teachers use their class­ten-year-olds? All of us have Chrlst. a traveller from an antique land stripes who are really deeplyroom time to attack abuses, catalogued scenarios of human In a season of task forces, ... I Who said: Two vast and Christian In their outlooks? Un­
Inside or outside Notre Dame? beings undergoing destruction, would a summit meeting of all trunkless legs of stone I Stand less we talk. how shall we
Do not rectors, In the privacy which serve us as examples of those carrying on ministries In the desert. Near them on the avoid doing the devll's work forof their dorms, carry on cam­what hell must be like. What --official and unofficial--be out of sand, I Half sunk. a shatter'd him more efficiently then he ­paigns to make up for the motivates the predators, Indif­order? Ideological wars are visage lies." could do It In any gross In­shortcomings of a Notre Dame ferent to the ruination ofsouls? 
going on; each side Is trying to When pride hardens the face carnation as Yeats's rougheducation? The rectors and Are they Indifferent to the enlist loyal students, and the and turns the heart to stone as beast?
teachers are engaged In a work graces that could keep them of ministry (or parenting) which human? Have they lived so Bill Watterson obligates them to speak their long In a climate of evil that 
minds and consciences. Who they have become, without would want them to do other­noticing it. moral degenerates? wise? Are there Frankensteins whose Yeats's poem continues: manipulation of science has "Surely some revelation Is at driven them mad? Are there hand; I Surely the Second Com­hedonists who have forgotten ng Is at hand." Imagery so that pleasure must be subject could apply to any to moral restraints? 
Is It hysterical to wonder If This Is a rotten century, and Is decade of history Is It's getting worse; consider the reatened by evil that looks mass murders, the child-abuse 
reason that has gone cases, the wastelands In any labollcally wild? In Hitler's city where old people fear to 
-

--
Accent 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 
[Must-see movies •
EUROPEAN VACATION 
FritSat Engineering Auditorium 7, 9 and 11p.m. 
Chevy Chase and Beverly D'Angelo reprise their roles in this se­quel to "National Lampoon's Family Vacation." In this wild, farci­cal comedy, the family heads overseas, only to encounter rude and arrogant foreigners, weird food, unpleasant accomodations, and disagreeable weather. 
THERESE Fri Annenberg Auditorium 7:30 and 9:45p.m. 
A probable contender for this year's best-picture Oscar, this fine film tells the story of Therese Martin, a Carmelite nun who died at the age of 25, having seldom left her convent. Canonized less that thirty years after her death, Therese led a life of intense spirituality and faith. The story of her love affair with Christ is seen through brief and limpid episodes baring the masochism, eroticism, and purity at the heart of Therese's life. 
PARTY GIRL Mon Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. 
Directed by Nicolas ("Rebel Without a Cause") Ray, "Party Girl" is a ganster epic which takes place in the mob-dominated world of Chicago during the 1920s. Ray's vivid style decorates this very watchable story of a woman (Cyd Charisse) who becomes the prize package fought over by a lawyer and a vicious gangster. 
DARK VICTORY Mon Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. 
Betty Davis stars as a Long _Island socialite dying from a brain 
tumor and going blind in the process. George Brent is the sur­geon who falls in love with her while she is under his care. Thi~ classic tear-jerker won Academy Award nominations for Davis and the film in the year "Gone With the Wind" swept the ceremony. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING SUSAN Tues Annenberg Auditorium 7 and 9 p.m. 
Rosanna Arquette plays a bored suburban housewife who ex­changes identies with a free-wheeling New Wave drifter (Madonna) through a series of bizarre coincidences. This hysterically funny movie has all the elments of a '30s screwball comedy while re­taining a hip lower Manhatten flavor. The verve and panache of the cast channeled by the deft direction of Susan Seidelman enables the plot to negotiate some wildly complicated corners. 

RUNNING MAN University Park East Cinemas 
Set in the future, "The Running Man" follows the adventures of an ex-cop (Arnold Schwarzenegger) who is falsely accused of murder and sent to prison. In jail he is given the opportunity to become a contestant on a high-stakes TV game show open only to convicts. Players are chased by mercilous killers while attempting to win their freedom. 
Local Theater Gu.ide 
0000000000000000000 
UNIVERSITY PARK MST 
6424 Grape Rd 277-7336 
"NUTS" "LESS THAN ZERO" "DATE WITH AN ANGEL" "TABLE FOR TWO" "RUNNING MAN" 
-
"WISH YOU WERE HERE" 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
University Park Mall 277-0441 
"DMTH WISH IV" "RUSSKIES"
.-r_ 
"HELLO AGAIN" "CINDERELLA" 
-


FORUM CINEMAS 
North Village Mall 277-1522 
"TEEN WOLF, TOO" "CROSS MY HEART" "HIDING OUT" 
"LIKE FATHER, LIKE SON" 
RMDY III CINEMAS 
420 E. Main St. Niles, Michigan 683-1112 

"SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME" "THE PRINCIPAL" "BEVERLEY HILLS COP II" 
100 CENTeR CINEMA 
100 Center St. 259-0414 
"BEVERLY HILLS COP II" "DIRTY DANCING" 
TOWN AND COUNTRY 
2340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090 
"FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC" "BABY BOOM" "FATAL ATTRACTION" 
SCOTTSDALE CINAEMAS 
1153 Scottsdale Mall 291-4583 
"MADE IN HMVEN" "SUSPECT" "CINDERELLA" 

Local 

Singing with the South Sympony Orchestra this Satur­day at 8:15 p.m. is soprano Susan Dunn. The internationally recognized Dunn has performed Aida at La Scala in Milan, worked with the New York Philharmonic and appeared in Carnegie Hall. Operatic works from Beethoven Verdi, and Puccini will be pre­sented, as well as Dvorak's New World Sympony. 
Folk rock greats Peter, Paul, and Mary will be in concert tonight at the Holiday Star Theatre in Mer­rillville. Showtime is 8 p.m. and tickets are $16.95. 
The Festival of Trees, an annual event benefitting a children's hospital fund, will feature dis­plays ofProfessionally decorated Christmas trees as well as crafts and holiday decorations this weekend at the Century Center. 
Dame hockey team will take on St. Thomas in the JACC. 
Saint Mary's professor and playwright, Julie Jensen, directs the world premiere of her latest work. "Thursday's Child," tonight, tomorrow and Sunday. Performances are in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:10 p. (Sunday matinee at 3:00 p.m.) 
The College Comedy Tour '87 will play Stepan Center tonight at 8 p.m. Comedians Larry "Bud" Melman, Rita Rudner, and Emo Phillips. will perform. Student tickets are $7. and can be pur­chased at The Cellar (basement of LaFortune). 
The Notre Dame-Penn State game will be televised nationally by CBS (channel 22) beginning at 12:10 p.m. tomorrow 
SCHEDULE 
5 p.m. (Saturday Vigil) Fr. Andre Leveille 9 a.m. Fr. Frank Cafferelli 
10:30 a.m. Fr. Edward Malloy 
12:15 p.m. Fr. Thomas Gaug­han 7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady 
Chapel 
WEEKDAY MAIN CHURCH SCHEDULE 
11:30 a.m. Monday thr 
Friday 5:15p.m. Monday thr Friday 
WEEKDAY CRYPT SCHEDULE 
6:30a.m. Monday thr 
11:30 a.m. Saturday 
12:10 p.m. Monday thr Friday 5:30p.m. Monday thr Friday 
Richard Dawson plays the game show host of the future in "The Running Man." Arnold Swarzenegger Is a contestent battling for his life and his freedom against tough odds. 
1 ChitChat • 
• 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL 
to misjudge his distance from accent writer 
L 
the ground and come within a ast Tuesday Bill Hanna and few inches of the actor's head. Joe Barbera threw a 25th Stallone ducked In time and birthday party for their cartoon escaped unharmed.... The characters, The Jetsons. The release of "Shy People," the day was pronouced "Jetsons movie which got Barbara Her­Day" by the city of Los Angeles. shey the best-actress award Corbin Bernson of TVs "L.A. from the Cannes Film Festival, Law" presided over the has been delayed. Instead of ceremonies.... The PBS the planned national release In children's series "Sesame December, there will be a lim­Street" opens Its 19th season Ited run in Los Angeles to this week with some new char­qualify Hershey for the 1987 acters. Allee Snumeupagus, Academy Awards, and the na­the 2-year-old baby sister of tional release will take place Big Bird's pal will become a sometime In 1988. . . . Linda regular, as will. muppet Meryl Ellerbee has sold the rights to Sheep, an eastern European her "Our World" television pro­acting teacher. Humans charac­gram to PBS. The critically ac­ters Maria and Luis will be claimed historical news show married at the season's lasted only briefly on CBS due end.... John Cleese and to its tough timeslot: it was on Kevin Kline are in London Thursday nights against the shooting "A Fish Called Wanda" popular NBC sitcom lineup. together. In the comedy, The show will be re-titled and Cleese plays an eccentric En­begin airing in January.... glish attorny defending ganster CBS is making a movie about Otto West (Kline).... In Elat, the love affair between Edward Israel Sylvester Stallone was the sixth of England and Ameri­
nearly killed on the set of can divorcee Wallis Simpson "Rambo Ill." While filming a which resulted in the abdica­stunt in which a helicopter tion of the king. Jane Seymour buzzes Stallone's character, and Anthony Andrews play the smoke and flames around the lovers in the production, now actor caused the 'copter's pilot shooting in London. 
--------------------~----------------------------------~--------~---------------------------------~ 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 The Observer page 13 
11le oe....Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­cMnl c.nt., .a:epta claaalfled ~UIQ from 10 L"'-until 4 p.m., Monday ttvougtl Friday. The oe.... Selnt tMry'1l offlal, located on the third fiOOI' of H-uger Collge Center, .a:epts claaalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. DMdllne for next~ claaalfledsls 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must
Classifieds be pnlpald, either In person Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five charKterW per day. 
l
I 
l I 
LOST CAMERA FOR SALE PLANE TIX TO HOUSTON I need a ride to Kansas City, MO or Chris t!alint It's not that cool that your To the gorgeous dark hai-r8d woman· CANON SURE SHOT HOBBY DEC 17 CHEAPI GREG X1177 anywhere within a 75 mile radius. Will breathallzer is higher than your GPAIII thanks for waiting In O'Shag. Some guysNOTICES I MAY HAVE LEFT IT ON NO SHUTTLE share expenses. Please call Theresa at Let me know if you need help paying just have all luck. Tla,
the I hope the THURS. 11112. IF YOU SAW IT OR Roundtrip ticket Southbend--LA Dec. 19· 2738. your bills. You Jeffersonltel MeL future Is as fun as the past has been. TYPING AVAILABLE HAVE IT, I REALLY NEED IT BACKlit -Jan. 12 $275 call Laura at 1290. Love always-Your boyfriend 287·4082 IT HAD ALMOST A FULL ROLL OF SNOW VOLLEYBALL
BUCKlE 
FILM IN IT! PLEASE CALL NINA AT FOR SALE: 1 WAY TICKET TO LOVES SNOW VOLLEYBALL Eating Turkey? I am too If I can get a 
X4570 NEWARK N.J. FORM SO. BEND AIR· DUCKIE SNOW VOLLEYBALL ride back to NO lrom CT or NY after ADOPTION· Loving couple, PORT ON WED. 11-25 P.M. CALL SNOW VOLLEYBALL T·Day. I'll share cost. Call Maura 3736. physiclar>Psychologlst, deeply wishes to BILLY AT 283-3549 Thanks! adopt newborn. Welcoming warm family, MISSY LAHAEN'S BIRTHDAY IS ON 
love, opportunities! Expenses pa1d. Le­LOST: ORANGE NERF BALL DURING Round trip from Detroit Metro to San Fran NOVEMBER 24th-gel excited! Go to COLLEGE COMEDY TOUR KATIE'S QUOTE OF THE WEEKEND: gal, confidential. Call Ellie or Alan collect 'BAMA GAME. GIVE IT BACKliT WAS $150 Leave Dec 26-Return Jan 4 277· Senior Bar on Nov. 23 to celebrate the COLLEGE COMEDY TOUR 
"Just one more beer and I'll be line I" 212·724·7942. A GIFT FROM MY 98 YEAR OLD 5230 occasion I EMO PHILIPS RITA RUDNER LARRY (.";'.-; .... , ..... GRANDMOTHER & SHE'LL BEAT THE ....................., .................................... "BUD" MELMAN FRIDAY 8:00PM TYPINGWORD PROCESSING HELL OUT OF ME IF SHE FINDS OUT '78 HONDA CIVIC AUTOMATIC, REG. RESORT HOTELS, Crulaellnea, Air­STEPAN WAANINGIII Christina and Maggie are CALL CHRIS I LOST ITI X4333 GAS, LOW MILEAGE, NEW BATTERY. linea & TICKETS $7.00-AT THE CELLAR & AT teaming up. This place may never be the
Amusement Parka NOW ac­234·8997 $1,000. CALL 272·1686 OR 287-4705. cepting applications for aummar joba, THE DOOR same I Just kidding girls. You two never 
FOUND: A black watch In Iron! ol Farley. 
lnternahlpa and career poaltlona. For tall to make me smile. Don't ever change.Call £1255 to describe and claim it. FOR SALE-LADIES "NORDICA" SKI Information & application; write Na­HURRY AND GET YOUR X·MAS P.S. Maggie, was this too malicious? Wordproceaaing-Typing ································ SIZE 8 WA'!OOT TREE AND tional Collegiate Recreation, P.O. Box UP BEFORE
BOOTS, CHECK EARLY THE 272·8827 LOST: PANASONIC CASSETTE AND TRAVEL BAG -239-7961, DAYS RUSH I THE PARTY DOCTORS ARE TO THE BRADY BUNCH FAN FROM
8074, Hilton Head Island, SC 29938.
RADIO! I lett It in CUSHING TAKING APPOINTMENTS NOW TO 
REGINA AUDITORIUM Friday 11113. PLEASE NEW ORLEANS ONE WAY TICKET­CURE YOUR SOCIAL EVENT MUSIC 
THEY HAVE COME OUT WITH NEW A TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-RETURN to MARY x3741, 245 Badin MIDWAY AIRLINES TUES.24 7:15 ILLS. CALL DAN AT £ 3626 OR MIKE RATED VERSIONS THE X RATED HEY Y'ALL I have 1 plane ticket to Atlanta 
via Chicago O'Haire leaving Tuesday the 7406 ONLY $80 AT£3413111 HAVEN'T GONE PUBLIC YET BUT
24th from Southbend Airport at 7:45 andLOST-AQUAMARINE RING WITH 
THEY SHOULD BE INTERESTING THE TYPING DIAMONDS & AN AMETHYST I need a ride to St. Louis lor Thanksgiving GREAT MOE 
arriving in Atlanta around 11 :00. I have 
RT AIR a test at 8:00 Tuesday and need to sell 
277-8131 or 237-1949 SOLITAIRE RING BETWEEN THE ACC break. Will help pay lor expenses. Call
ANYWHERE! it. It's a $300 flight, but call Matt D. at
& THE STADIUM SUN. IF FOUND Mike x3625.
$180 1 1 55 and make an offer.
PLEASE CALL HEATHER 284-5182 
GOTO I need a ride to DeKalb, II (NIU) area on MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; MIAMI ECDC BOOK FAIR Early Childhood De­'""Angela Wimmer"'.. I'm still Mon.,Nov. 23 alter 3:00. call Chris at 277·1051 DAY. waiting... PLEASE let me know when 1065.
GAME velopment Ctr, Havlcan Hall, SMC:
FOUND: HP11C CALCULATOR you're ready Love, (Come on, you don't
CALL 2992 ASAP 7:30am-5:15 pm,Nov.18-25. Award win­EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Third Aoor Fitzpatrick really need me to sign these, do you?) Anyone with a Barna lootball program. I
ning, quality books lor 
-
MRS. COKER, 233-7009 3 initials on the back preschoolers-grade 6, also parenting & need one. Chris at 1065. 
Call Mike 271-0740 to Identity. BEANIE
teacher books. Thislundraiser will supply ECDC classrooms with additional library ANN BRIAN MURRAY I've waited 2 years lor 
materials. Great for holiday gilts I Checks a personal from you, But such Ia lite ..Out NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH OVER HAPPY THANKSGIVINGII!
TICKETS KAAA 
preferred. a wlle... Aight? I'll keep hoplngl In the THANKSGIVING BREAK. WILL 
meantime,please have a great TURKEY SHARE USUAL. CALL KEVIN AT 238· 
OKAY MISSY -YOU CAN STOP DROP­day AND tell your Dad, that someday I'll
5303....................................... 
CALL THE ORANGE BOWL AND LET
PING ALL THE STUPID HINTS -WE llgure him outl (That's Ill ever meet him I)
*********************************
FOR RENT 
EM KNOW THE IRISH WANNA COME. 
KNOW WHEN YOUR BIRTHDAY IS • HAVING YOUR MOM CALL US FROM Jen--The first time ever I sw your laca 
************************* 
CALL (305)-842-1515 OR (305)-221· Holiday Jobs ·N.D. & S.M.C. Take home 3545.NO COTTONMOUTH.
I really, really, really need 1 Alabama THE PHILLIPINES WAS UNNECES­I thought the sun rose In your eyes and 
a resume to help with holiday job-search. Lease thla 2BR apartment now lor SARY -DON'T WORRY WE REMEM­the moon and the sun were the gilts you 
ticket. 
Office or phone appointmanta··$25·$40. spring semester and move In anytime. Does anyone have a program lrom ANY
Student or GA will do. Call John at 283· BER OUR FRIENDS BIRTHDAY'S! CAN gave... And the first time ever I kassed 
KEY CAREER SERVICES ··262·1697. $ 32Stno. Includes utilities. Call 232· lootball game that they're willing to get
2445. YOU SAY THE SAME? NAY NAY I your mouth I lett the earth move In my 
...................... 9239. rid of? If so, call Laura at 2494
SAVIll handsllkelhe trembling heart of a captive SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
bird..
************************* 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Now ahowlng for IYIAI8-&1AI9 lease. 
TO ALL THE MEN THAT MISSY LAH­
************************* 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIOR 6BR, 2 bath houaa on bus llna. Call "SOPHOMORE CLASS CHICAGO
REN HAS LOVED OR LUSTED FOR -IT'S BRIAN AINI'S 18th BIRTHDAY Stop (NOT ENOUGH SPACE FOR NAME by Dillon 356 and give him a nice hum­
CHRISTMAS FORMAL FRIDAY, 232-9239. TRIP" DECEMBER 4 AVOID THE RUSH AND NEED GA'S FOR PENN STATE. 272-ENTRIES -SORRY GUYSI) COME TO ••sOPHOMORE CLASS CHICAGO mer. SHOP NOW FOR YOUR LITTLE MIS-HAPPY 21st TRIP'•
6306. SENIOR BAA NOV. 23rd AND BUY HER 
DATESIIIIIIIIIIIIII THAT'S THE BIRTHHDAY coming up aoon... Nov. "SOPHOMORE CLASS CHICAGO
A SHOT FOR HER BIATHDAYI HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANG I EVEN WEEKEND AFTI'.A TURKEY BREAK. 241111 TRIP"
NEED GA'S FOR PENN STATE. 272· THOUGH YOU'RE ROOMIE C2 YOU'RE SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Saturday, December 5
6306. HEY MISSY, REMEMBER THAT ONE £1 WITH USI LOVE £1 & £3 YOU'RE SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS NEED GRAD STUDENT TO SHARE 3· $10.00 bus!$15.00 bus & "Second City" 
DAY IN FRONT OF ALUMNI WHEN THE BESS 
SENIORS SENIORS BED DUPLEX NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL­11:30 am -11:00 pm
PENN ST TIX FOR SALE. 282-2977 YOU MADE AN "EXPLOSIVE" STATE­
ABLE NOW. CALL JANE AT 239-6346. Sign up In class office BEFORE Thanks­
MENT? WELL, AS YOUR ROOMATE, I Dear dark hair, You shouldn't lie yourself BEAUX ARTS BALL NOV 21 THE BOT· giving
Need NO-Penn State tickets. Call Bill at REALLY "PEELED" FOR YOU BE­down so young. Wanna get married? 
TOM LINE BEAUX ARTS BALL NOV 21 3 BA house. Take over spring sem.lease, 
x4364. CAUSE YOU REALLY MUST HAVE Well, I suppose your boyfriend would put THE BOTTOM LINE BEAUX ARTS BALL $57 &!no. Furnished, 10 min. lrom 
FELT LIKE A LOO-SAHIIIII. .. SEE -YAIIII a strain on our relationship. Thanks lor NOV 21 THE BOTTOM LINE BEAUX campus in qUiet neighborhood. 234-8903 
BOSTON ANYBODY? Round trip tix the reply. Your eternally Interested So.Bend-Boston Nov. 23·Nov.30. Call MICHELLE PARAISO AAAAAHIII 'We admirer.·TTTG
ARTS BALL NOV 21 THE BOTTOM WANT TO EARN $12 FOR JUST LINE BEAUX ARTS BALL NOV 21 THE WATCHING T.V.?WANTTO EARN $12 
Rod 282-2563 $110.00 hear it's your birthday!" Happy 18th, Little 
BOTTOM LINE FOR DOING YOUR STUDIES? RELAX
One. You gotta love itl Love, K,S,A,H,A SKI 
IN OUR LAZY BOYS AND DO BOTH.
I need 4 Penn State Tlx Call Sean at SKI
WANTED 
CCCCC£62 GIVE BLOOD PLASMA AND HELP
271-9441 THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER Jan. 29·31 
SAVE A CHILD'S LIFE I BRING THIS AD
BEFORE BREAK IS MONDAY, NOV. Boyne Mountain 
NEEDED: PAINTER; EXPERIENCED, TO: AMERICAN PLASMA, 515 LIN­
23. DEADLINE FOR CLASSIFIEDS Buy Tickets 
PART· TIME EVENINGS. FOR A.B. DICK COLNWAY WEST. TUES. WED. FRI.
Who wants me? No, just kidding. Who FOR THAT ISSUE IS 3 PM, FRIDAY, Dec 2-4 
360 PRESS AND BINDERY. HOURLY SAT. 9:00-5:00 234·6010
LOST/FOUND wants 4 Nr»v1iami tix? Let me know. 3834 NOV. 20. ~ %% FOR S%% A· SKI 
AND BONUS. CALL 289-6977. 
3829"/o% 1.5%% 0 %% 1118 "'o"'o 1119 SKI 
RIDE NEEDED TO OHARE
FREE SEX %% 1120 Roundtrip ticket South bend· LOST ··I LOST MY ROYAL BLUE VUAA· I NEED A AIDE HOME FOR THANKS· monday 23, please call
Well, what I really want are your Miami -LA Dec. 19-Jan. 12 $275 call Laura at 
NETS SATURDAY AT THE 'BAMA GIVING NEAR SENECA, ILLINOIS. IT'S Debbie 264-4310
GA's. Call Lou Anne 284-5109 for details. 1290. ATT'N FABULOUS BABES: Mike GAME. THESE HAVE Wade's 21st birthday Is SUNDAY and he 
SUNGLASSES SMALL, SO IF YOU'VE NEVER HEARD SERIOUS SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO OF IT, IT'S BETWEEN JOLIET AND OT· 
FOR SALE: 2 ROUND-TRIP FLIGHT FOR SALE: 1 WAY TIX TO NEWARK needs 21 CHICKS... to wish him a happy ME, SO I DEFINITELY WILL MAKE IT TAWA WEST ON ROUTE 80. CALL TIX TO MIAMI. LEAVES DETROIT N.J. FROM SO. BEND AIRPORT ON Desperately need ride to Atlanta. Will birthday. Stop In at 224 Dillon and make 
WORTH YOUR WHILE IF YOU CALL KATHY AT 3590 IF YOU CAN HELP. pay. Call Christine SMC-5535
METRO TUESDAY EVENING, NOV. 24. WED 11-25 PM. CALL BILLY AT 3549 his year AMY AT £271-0575 TO RETURN THEM. 
LEAVE MIAMI MONDAY EVENING, ........... .. .............................. 
SENIMENTALLY I WILL BE BETTER Help ill NOV. 30. ALSO INCLUDED ARE TWO IRISH IN THE ORANGE BOWL? ONLY I NEED A AIDE TO BUFFALO FORT­58 reasons to hate Jimmy Johnson 56. OFF, WHILE MONETAAIL Y I need ride lor TWO to: DAY. CALL THERESA SMC-4049 He's not Lou Holtz 57.
FOOTBALL TIX FOR THE MIAMI WITH YOUR HELPI CALL (301) 642-He can't figureWaahlngton DC area lor
$$$$$$$$$$ YOU'LL BE MUCH BET· GAME. CALL MIKE BERNARD 313-1515 OR (301)221-3545 FOR 0-BOWL out II "ALF" Is a puppet or just a little 
TEA OFFII PLEASE CALL AMY AT Thankaglvtng reunion at homet able AIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO SUB·
588-5374 (COLLECT). HEAD OFFICE. TELL 'EM WHO YA guy In a suit 56. We have pictures ol him WANT with your slslter 55. He's not Lou Holtz
£271·0575. to leave Tues. night UABS TUES. NOV 24. RETURN or Wed. morning. Will share usual SUNDAY -CALL BETH 264-4179 
.................... 
Please call Susan at 283-3838
LOST: NOTRE DAME CLASS RING; Nude Skydivers say: What do you call a FREE SEX
WTS INITIALS INSCRIBED REWARD YOU: car a Miami player drives around In? OFFERED PLEASE CALL 271·0480 Well, what I really want are your Miami 
Stolen. The Irish never lorget..... I need a student to create a collage ol GA's. Call Lou Anne 284-51091ordetalls. 
I met you after the game at my tall­
Miami tickets lor sale
LOST: BLUE O.P. WALLET CONTAIN· old newspaper clippings. I will pay the 
gater. Needleaa to aay, my mind waa A. Metzger:GMAT god! 
call 1887
lNG DRIVER'S LICENSE OF TIM right person handsomely. Need lor TOM M.-Roses are red, Violets are blue,
a bit shot. I went through all olthe T'a 
GRIEVE AND AROUND $40 SOMETIME Christmas. Call Debbie 277-3657 To one who wrote the reply, Which TOM
In the phone book and I can't remem­FOOFI 
SAUADAY 11/14. IF FOUND, CALL ............................................... M. are YOU?
ber your name. I found you and loat Hell weak Ia over. JOHN AT x3111. you. Help. We knew you'd make Ill
Need ride to Downers Grove, IL for break. 
Mike 4607 LOST(?):MEN'S GOLD SEIKO WATCH. NOV. 12, 4:00·6:30 PM, BETWEEN OIL· FEMALE:GAEEN DAESS,DAAK
PERSONALS
BALTIMORE-DC -NEED AIDE ·1222 
LON AND ACC COURT 1. BELIEVE TO NOV. STAR SKIN,WHITE IN
24,1966....A IS BOW DARK HAVE BEEN "BORROWED" FROM IN THE LITTLE HAIR,SOUTH LUNCH ON ARE
AIDE NEEDED to MNPL&ST. PAUL OR TOM M.-Roaaa ere red, VIolets are 
BOO--I LOVE YOU...AAAOWSI ··BOO BOAN ..... FOA TOWN 11119. 
JACKET ON COURT 1. GRADUATION MADISON. Anytime alter 9:30 AM Tues. blue, Can't welt Ill thla weekend, Have 
(smile I) OF CLARENCE, MARY LOU AND YOU TAKEN?-MALE GIFT: PLEASE RETURN! REWARD! NO Nov 24. Call 4016 ask lor Jerry 
something for youI
JAMES LAHAEN GAVE BIRTH TO A 
?'S ASKED. MATT X1629. ....................... TO ANYONE WHO
LITTLE WEED-PICKER AND THEY NEED ride to NEW ENGLAND SKI CARES ............. PAUL EDWARD
WANTED MIAMI GA's 2 OR 4 PLEASE 
DUBBED HER "LEE ANN" (BETTERLOST: Two jackets were lost (or taken) lor Thanksgiving break KNOWN AS MISSY). TO THIS DAY, SKI CZARNECKI, THE BASSIST FOR THE 
Saturday lrom a tallgater behind the Will drive and pay $$ SHE HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO HOLD SENIOR SKI TRIP POPULAR CAMPUS BAND, BLANK CALL PENNY 284-4435 
BELL YGAAMS I 255-3355 
backstop on Green Field. One was white Call Steve 1725. A JOB, REFUSE A COOKIE, OR TURN SKI GENERATION, ATTENDED HIS FIRST with blue sleeves and the other was dark SYR WITH THE ONE AND ONLY ........ .. 
SKI
DOWN A SYA DATE. BUT THAT LITTLE 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,
grey with a red 11n1ng. II you happened WEED-PICKER IS DETERMINED TO COLLEEN McGILLIS. NONETHELESS,
CAI~RY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONEPOST ADVERTISING MATERIALS ON
to p1ck either of them up, please call Jlni SHE THE ORDEAL AND
BECOME A STAR-SO COME PARTY SURVIVED 
CAMPUS. WRITE: COLLEGE DIS­BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. YOU: THE GORGEOUS BLONDE IN
at 1459 WITH HER ON NOV. 23 AT SENIOR MANAGED TO CONTINUE TO LEAD A 
TRIBUTORS, 33 PEBBLEWOOD 318 BADIN THANKS FOR THE
BAAIIIIIIIIIIIII NORMAL (THOUGH SLIGHTLY 
TRAIL, NAPERVILLE, IL 80540. WHY NOT ORDER A BIRTHDAY CAKE BLOWOFFI I SUPPOSE GOING TO
MISSING: My lriend came In lrom out ol SCARED) LIFE. SINCERELY, THE
FOR THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE? BED IS OUT OF QUESTION??
town and someone took his size 46 denim MYSTERY ROOMATE
"HAPPY BIRTHDAY MICHAEL"
CALL 283-2359 TODAY OR LOOK FORFREE AIDE back from NYC area altercoat lrom the coal room at Senior Bar. 
LOVE,
WEDNESDAY'S AD Maggie M.­
If you have II please call me so I can gel Thanksgiving. Driver wanted lor car lrom MOM, DAD, DAVID & CHRIS DEAR SECRET FRIEND, I've lorsaken 
Spring Valley. Call 287-7400. Want to go to Keenan's SYR Dec.4?
It back to him and restore NO's good all other men lor you. Take me I'm your's. name. Mike 271·0573. M.K.
............................................... (YES, with mel) Reply. -"shy eyes" 
REACHHELP! NEED AIDE TO WASHINGTON
...................... 
ATTENTION MISSY: 1) "I Figured out
out to your lrlends abroad ................i'ME::"DV'i'iUM''L'INt:''"''''"'""'
D.C. AREA (MD, VA) FOR THANKS Dee,BLUE BACKPACK LOST FRIDAY, 
why I'm not attracted to him anymore... 
GIVING. CAN LEAVE NOV. 24 TUES. with a personal ad In You're so sweet. I love you. Is looking for a talented non·aanlor male
SOUTH DINING HALL. LAW BOOKS. If he would have just left with a kiss good­
(AFTER 10 AM.) CALL VICTOR £1145 FOREIGN RELATIONS' REACH LEAD VOCALIST
CALL JOEL 234-9358. night... but no, he gave me everyth·
PLEASE! NEWSLETTER If Interested, call Bill at 239-5118 or Matt
lng ... He was just too easy!!!" 2) "Is It O.K. 
................................................................ only 50 cents lor up to 20 words II To the girl In the green sweater a La at x-2318.
LOST: AQUA-MARINE WITH DIAMOND to kiss a guy on a school night?" THANKS 
NEED ride to PITTSBURGH (Bethel buy as many 20-word blocks as you like II Fortune Tuesday night... Were youRING & AMETHYST ENGAGEMENT 
FOR ALL YOUR ADVICE "LITTLE MIS"·
write your ad, put It WITH YOUR MONEY looking at me? (Hope sol) D. BRIAN, Happy B-day (FINALLY)! NowPark) lor break. Will share expenses. Can 
RING BY THE STADIUM ON SUNDAY. --LOVE, your roomates. Hello? Yeah, I just 
leave Monday at noon. Call Kevin 1647. In an envelope In Mary BergeoForelgn you can't say you're going out with an
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL HEATHER wanted to talk to you "about last night..."
Relations' mailbox and we'll do the rest. older womanl Have a great day! Good284-5182. 
NEED RIDE TO BLOOMINGTON FOR To the girl In the 12th floor library bath· Luck at your swim meetl LOVE, Me
:·;;~;:·;;~;:·;;;·;;·;;~;:·;:~; ... FiiiiE"···NE"iii:liio The French Fries Girls 
THANKSGIVING. WILL SHARE EX­room on Wednesday night... I could have ­
ATTENTIONIIIIIII HELPIIIIII L.S. & S.L. 
PENSES CALL DAVE AT 1516 TO ROCHESTER NY FOR sworn the sign said MEN. By the way cAFiii ..aA·av·,~·~··HAiiE ..A.woNoe'Fif'ul. 
""""PLEASEIIIIII 
THHANKSGIVING CALL JOHN 2236 what are you doing this Saturday night? 21ST BIRTHDAYI WE ALL LOVE YA,
'""'"ATTENTIONIII MY BLACK LEAT­Hey Doll--Saturdays will never be the Peep YOUR BUDDIES ON THIRD SOUTH:HER JACKET WENT HOME WITH same. Thanks for everything. Cham­MO,KIM,BARBSOMEONE ELSE FROM AN OFF­
VIXEN DEVASTATOR-the one thing pagne, pillows, and jazz alter the game? 
CAMPUS PARTY FRIDAY NOV. 13. I 
FOR SALE 
about you Is you're my lrlend, you're my Me BEAUX ARTS BALL NOV 21 THE BOT· THERE'S NO NEED TO FORGET ERINLOVE THIS JACKET! IT WAS A GIFT 
friend and you care. The two things about TOM LINE BEAUX ARTS BALL NOV 21 CUSACK'S TURNING 19 TODAY. CALL 
FROM VERY SPECIAL PEOPLE. I To All the Men We've Loved Belore: What 
PUPPIES you are: you're my friend and you care THE BOTTOM LINE BEAUX ARTS BALL AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIATHDAYIII 
MUST HAVE IT BACK-PLEASEIIIII IF are you doing Saturday night?? ·-YOUR 
and you're wlld, ... l'll try again. Amongst NOV 21 THE BOTTOM LINE BEAUX 284-5426
Mother Garman Shephard 
YOU HAVE THE JACKET. CALL ME: WILDEST FANTASIES 
Must 1111-out ownership application the great things about you are such ................................................. ARTS BALL NOV 21 THE BOTTOM Call PETE at 239-5603 or 234-7429 diverse elements as you're my lriend you Hey SiblingIllIll So you are finally going LINE BEAUX ARTS BALL NOV 21 THE LosT:·· Riio ... ·iiiMME·o····"iio&=r-.;;;; always care, you're a wild woman and to make II to Penn State Ill Well, I am BOTTOM LINE 
LIZ £288-9016. THANK YOUIIIIII 

your almost fanatical dev-cotion to the EVEN AFTER 'BAMA GAME? I DON'T AIRLINE TIX TO NEWARK NEW JER­see CLASSIFIEDS, page 15 
GRANTS-BEFORE, DURING, MAYBE ................................................................ looking forward to partying with you and 
Pope and...Happy B-day on the 22nd, your gang. Safe travels and see you BEAUX ARTS IS HERE NOV 21 BEAUX KNOW, I DON'T EVEN REMEMBER SEY T-GIVING BREAK. VERY CHEAP. 
I'm so glad you're here(when you're not soon. Tha Slbllng'a ala. PS: Go Nlttany ARTS IS HERE NOV 21 BEAUX ARTS THE GAMEl X4333 CALL WOODY AT 1644 Lions Ill
In Chicago) -VIXEN CO-CONSPIRATOR IS HERE NOV 21 
................................................................ 

page 14 The Observer FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 
UCLA, West prep for season 
Associated Press Wildcats' leading scorer at 19.3 Gerald Paddio (13.1 points, 4.3 points per game, and outstand­rebounds) and Jarvis Basnight 
Walt Hazzard, who was there ing sophomore forward An­(9.2, 4.8). at the beginning of John thony Cook. San Jose State, led by Pan Wooden's UCLA basketball In a recent ballot of the con­American Games standout dynasty, know he hasn't ference coaches, Arizona was Ricky Berry, and Cal State­started another long reign by picked as the preseason favor­Fullerton are expected to be the Bruins. But he's not dis­ite for the title, followed by UNLV's chief challengers for counting that prospect. UCLA, Southern Cal, Stanford, the PCAA crown. 
"We like what we've California, Oregon State, In the Rocky Mountains, achieved," said Hazzard who Arizona State, Oregon, Wash­senior forward Fennis Dembo has a record of 61-33 in four ington and Washington State. and the Wyoming Cowboys of years with UCLA. "But we The Pacific Coast Athletic the Western Athletic Confer­know that this is not enough for Association is, for a change, ex­ence hope last season's success the coaches who come into this pected to be more than a one­is a sign of bigger things to room (the Bruins' coach's of­team race this season. come. The Cowboys went 24-10 fice). But Nevada-Las Vegas' Run­and posted NCAA tournament 
"The coaches that come into nin' Rebels, although they lost upsets of Virginia and UCLA this room, we want all of it. We three starters off their team before a los to UNLV in the don't know how long it's going that was ranked No. 1 for most West Regional semifinals. 
to take to get us there, but we of last season, still are slight New Mexico posted its best want to press on until we get favorites to take their seventh record ever only to be left out there." consecutive PCAA title. of the NCAA tourney. The Hazzard, a co-captain of the Five of Coach Jerry Lobos lost to Oregon State in
photo 
Wooden-led 1964 Bruins that Tarkanian's top seven players the National Invitational began a run of ten consecutive used up their eligibility last Tournament and finished 25-10. NCA titles, has made progress year, when the Rebels lost to Others expected to challenge as the UCLA coach. Indiana in the NCAA national for the title will be Texas-El UCLA will try to become the semifinals to finish 37-2. Paso (25-7) and Brigham first repeat winner of the Pac-Young (21-11), which finished 
10 since Oregon State in 1980-Tarkanian is down to nine first and second in the regular­
81-82. But the Bruins will have scholarship players, including season standings and earned 
to do it without Reggie Miller, returning starting forwards NCAA tournament berths. 
Jack Haley and Montel 
Hatcher, all of whom have departed. 
Associated Press the first set, she lost. 16 of 18 Seven-foot sophomore Greg points while serving. Foster and ball-hawking junior NEW YORK -Top-seeded After splitting the first two Jerome 'Pooh' Richardson will Steffi Graf advanced to the sets, Hanika blitzed Reggi in a be called on to led Hazzard's 
semifinals of the Virginia Slims final set that included several UCLA squad. 
Tennis Championships long games. 
While many of the Pac-10's 
Thursday when No. 7 Helena 
teams have lost several key
Sukova retired in the second set "She played very well in the players, Arizona figures to be because of a neck injury. 
second set, and I lost a little bit the team to beat by virtue of Sukova cried in pain as she of my concentration," said its experience -the Wildcats left the court trailing 6-2, 2-0. 
Hanika, who hasn't won a have six regulars returning. "She said she couldn't turn tournament this year. "In the Leading the way for the her head anymore," Graf said third set, I fought my way back Wildcats will be senior guard
following the 40-minute match. 
into the match." Steve Kerr, who suffered a se­"She was having problems ser­
Reggi had three break points ving and with her forehand." in the first game of the final vere knee injury in 1986 and 
Char,
A tournament official said set, but Hanika came back to missed all of last season. Sukova had muscle spasms in win the game with a backhand Also back are 6-8 junior for-


Why Is this man smiling? More Importantly, will Joe Paterno be smiling after Notre Dame visits Penn State on Saturday as the seventh-ranked Irish shoot for their ninth win of the season. See Irish Extra for a preview of the game. 
Graff advances into Slims semifinals 
her neck that caused pain in volley. ward Sean Elliott,
her left shoulder. Graf has now won 73 of 75 matches his year. 
Her opponent in the semi­finals will be Sylvia Hanika of West Germany, who beat Raf­faella Reggi of Italy 6-2, 4-6, 6-0. 
Hanika, who upset Chris Evert in the first round, won the battle of unseeded players by taking advantage of Reggi's weak serve. 
Reggi double-faulted 11 times and won only one of 22 points on her second serve. In 
CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS 
Lecture by:GEORGE PLIMPTON 
WE HAVE CLIENTS SEEKING QUALIFIED 
INDIVIDUALS WITH LANGUAGE AND AREA· 
"AN AMATEOR AMONG THE PROS" 
EXPERTISE REGARDING FOREIGN MARKETS. 
Tuesday, December 1 
8:00.pm
PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME ASSIGNMENTS 
AVAILABLE. 
Washington Hall 
FOREIGN NATIONALS WITH ADVANCED 
Tickets: $2.00 
DEGREES FROM AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES 
sold at the
ACCEPTED AS VISA RESTRICTIONS WILL NOT AFFECT CERTAIN PROJECTS. 
Ticket Stub Monday -Friday
EXPERTISE IN TECHNICAL, ECONOMIC, 
3-5 pm
OR SCIENTIFIC FIELDS IS REQUIRED. 
Call 239-7757 for
-
further information. 
SEND RESUME, INCLUDING TELEPHONE 
-played quarterback for the Detroit
NUMBER TO: SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE 
Lions, basketball {or the Boston Cel­
EXECUTIVE SEARCH DIVISION 
tics, hockey for the Boston Bruins, 
P.O. BOX A-3629 
percussion for the New York Philhar: 
CHICAGO, IL 60690 
monic, founded The Paris Review 


ironwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND, IN 46635 
the Do they have 
151 in Italy? . Happy Birthday! Love, Maura 
page 15
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 The Observer 
ND hosts Tommies 

By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team faces off against St. Thomas this weekend f~r a pair of non-conference games at the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish have gotten off to an auspicious start this new season, sitting atop the Amer­ican Collegiate Hockey Associ­ation's standings board with a 3-1-2 record, 2-0-2 in the confer­ence. Head Coach Ric Schafer is not surprised with the team's success thus far. 
"We're not exactly blowing people away," said Schafer, in his debut season as head coach of the Irish. "But with the way we're playing and the way we seem to improve from week to week, we'll be able to at least stay with the teams we play. 
"Everyone's got a real good attitude, and we go out thinking we're going to win. The defense and passing are improving and we've been able to come from behind pretty well." 
St. Thomas will probably The Observer I John Studebacker pose more than a mild threat The Notre Dame hockey team, seen here In action St. Thomas In the Joyce ACC tonight and Satur­to the recently winning ways of earlier this season against Lake Forest, takes on day night. Pete Sklko previews the games at right. the Irish, however. Schafer's 
Zadar 
continued from page 20 
State and DePaul to wind up the trip. 
Walk-ons Steve Nicgorski and Chris Nanni provided the finishing touches to the runaway win. 
Nicgorski entered with 4:58 and Nanni came in four seconds later. After missing the front end of a one-and-one, Nanni canned a 19-footer. He also hit the final points on a driving layup. 
Nicgorski brought what remained of the crowd to its feet with his now-patented one­arm-extended free throw style. He made four-for-five from the line. 
CD COUPON 
$2.00 OFF 
ALL DISCS 
EXPIRES 11·30·87 PRICED $15.99 AND UP EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS 
· Sports Briefs Soccer 
continued from page 20 
and the last three years withIn the NBA last night, the New Jersey Nets nipped Off-Campus.
the New York Knicks 108-107, while the Houston Rockets "This team was as good aspowered past the Cleveland Cavaliers, 105-97. -Associated any I've played on," he said.
Press 
"The O.C. teams don't take the games too seriously so it's a lotIn the NHL last evening, Philadelphia defeated Los of fun."
Angeles, 7-5, Vancouver topped Detroit, 4-1, Toronto tied The victory was dedicated to St. Louis, 3-3, Minnesota defeated the N.Y. Rangers, 4-3, Hoober senior Ed Starinchak,and Calgary slammed Quebec, 9-1. -Associated Press who injured his knee in Mon­day's 3-0 victory over top­Marc Hill, the former Chicago White Sox catcher, seeded Holy Cross. Starinchak, has left the magaging post of the South Bend White Sox an offensive standout allbefore they even saw action on the field. He will be a season, was in surgery lastbullpen coach with the Houston Astros. -Associated Press night while his teammates battled Zahm. 
The Sailing Club will host its 'Last Sail Day' with But even in defeat, the Zahm a barbeue and open sail this Sunday at 1 p.m. at the boat­squad can still hold its headhouse. All members are encouraged to attend. -The Ob­high. They finished the season
server 
at 8-3 and managed to reach 
00000000000000 
PERSONALS 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 
continued from page 13
FOR SKI ORGANIZATION. 
PLEASE HE:LP: I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO IOWA TO VISIT MY GRAND· 
• 
Group Charters & Tours • Card Tables 

• 
Restrooms • Radios 


SPECIAL OUTDOOR 
MOTHER ON THANKSGIVING. CALL 
• Your DESIGNATED Driver • Tape Players 
VALERIE 284·5180. 
LEISURE OPPORTUNITIES. 
Bill, The only peychotic thing I'll ever do Is eat a whole jar of peanut butter. Can
CARDINAL 
you last that long? Skippy 
FOR MORE INFORMATION
CHARTERS & TOURS 
TTom, .... Stevel No.Umm...OHI ROM· MELli Friday night wait, no, that's not rlght...Oh, I mean Saturday night--yeah. 
CALL: 289-9216
287·8677 
Just you being here will make Saturday 401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617 
ASK FOR LISA 
night awesomelll Love Always, Heidi
0000000000000000 
Mom & Dad, Thanks for coming this 

weekend. GO ND HOCKEYI Your loving 
children, Stacy and Dwayne 
TO MY LONG DISTANCE ADMIRER: THANKS FOR REMEMBERING MElt
CD COUPON LP ITAPE COUPON 
THE PERSONAL REALLY MADE MY 
DAY! BUT, HOW AM I SUPPOSED TO 
CLASSICAL 
$1.00 OFF 
DROP YOU A LINEI?I? ·THE SMC
& JAZZ 
FLASHER
ALL LP I TAPES
$4.00 OFF EXPIRES 11-30-87 
all-time record against the Tommies from his seven years as head coach of Alaska­Fairbanks is a paltry 1-5, al­though the Irish are 7-5-1 over­all against the St. Paul, Minn., school. 
"I know that they're one of the top Division III schools around," sadi Schafer of St. Thomas. "And I know that they've given me fits every time one of my teams has come up against them. But other than that, all I know is that they've played one scrimmage this year against Minnesota's junior varsity. But we'll go in well prepared. If we play like we have, I think we can do very well." 
The Irish have drawn over 1,000 fans for each of their three home games this season. To en­courage even better atten­dance, the hockey team is spon­soring a dance1ree-skate in the JACC immediately following Saturday night's game. Admis­sion is free with a ticket stub from the game. A donation of two dollars will be asked of those who will only attend the party. All are welcome. 
the final and give the Hoobers all they could handle in the championship, even though they were the sixth-seeded team in postseason action. 
"We had a real good season. I think the team exceeded all its expectations," said Zahm freshman Kevin Keeley, one of the team's leading scorers. "Off-Campus just had a few more chances than we did." 
So what's next for the Hoobers? Can they make it four in a row next year? 
"It should be another pretty good year," predicted Thompson. "We'll have a few players back and a few more will move off campus too. But for now we just want to enjoy this season and our celebration bash." 
Part 1: THE DOMEA-SMJCKER SAGA Approaching while perusing every Inch of her body, the Domer asks coyly, "What's your J.D. £?" Looking him over just as eagerly, the Smlcker replies, "That's not Important, what's your shoe 
size?" ......... Part 2 of the Domei>'Smicker Saga next week--same time, same station. 
Ben,No misunderstandlngs ...Hjust takes time.i'm willing to try Sat. will be great. Love, Sue P.S. The personal made my day. 
I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO DOWNTOWN CHICAGO FOR TURKY DAY.CALL HEIDI, 4·4261. 
Alders needed to Pittsburgh for break. Call Annie 284·5025. Late evening Is best. 
Holy Cross Soccer would like to thank the best fans on campus. The Swlnasty is truly alive I 
WANTED: REAL MEN FRAN HOMES doesn't think there are any real men out there I Call her and prove her wrong II 284· 5428 
ALL DISCS 
PRICED $6.99 UP 
EXPIRES 11-30-87 
EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS 
PRICED $16.99 
GRAND 
OPENING!
SEE WHY TRACKS IS THE AREA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE. . .OVER 30,000 CDS I LPS I TAPES!!! Fast service, outstanding quality, and low, low·prices!
:~r==::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::=:;:;=~t=:====~===~===;=~===;=~=~===;~~;===;=~~;~~~~====;=;====~===::==:=:=;~;==================:====================1\ll 
-..,_IPIGII.
2Y2C COPIES
) XL 1190 11TH TAPE FREEl $19.99 SA90 WITH FREE CASE~~~~ { XLIIS90 11TH TAPE FREEl $23.99 SAX90 WITH FREE CASE m~ 
kliikO•s·
''"",~,.,,,."'''"'''''"'"''"'"''"''''TR'A'C'''K§'''''"'''''"'"·;,,,,,,;,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ Great copies. Great people. 
18187 State Road 23 ,,cross from Corkto'Wtle Liquors 271-0398 
On the corner of S.R.23 & E. Edison 
M-F Sat Sun 
I . 30am-lOpm 9am-6p11. Noon-Spm
••-r41H-t4JKt 
• • 
•
••• ­•
• 

w 
page 16 The Observer FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1987 

Knight has Hoosiers back near the top 
Associated Press Knight, 366-119 in 16 years at 
Indiana and 468-169 overall, an­
BLOOMINGTON -Give Bob ticipates that his team won't Knight five guys and a ball and have acy trouble concentrating he'll win, the thinking goes. on its goals. Give him three guys back from "We've got kids that know we a national championship team just didn't lay waste to and he'll be downright danger­euerybody in the NCAA tourn­ous. mnent and we lost a couple of 
For the third time Knight will players that were awfully im­be defending the NCAA basket­portant to that l._..:~m's season," ball crown. For the first time Knight said. his championship team hasn't Knight failed to win the con­been decimated by graduation ference championship after his or injury. two previous national titles. 
The Hoosiers, Notre Dame's His 1975-76 championship opponent in the regular season squad had its top six players opener for the Irish on Decem­move into the NBA after finish­ber 1 in Bloomington, have one ing 32-0. The Hoosiers were 16­major detractor -Coach 11 and sixth in the conference Knight. the following season. 
"No," says Knight when The 1981-82 team that won the asked if his team will give him national title with a 26-9 mark a second consecutive NCAA lost Ray Tolbert to graduation, title and his fourth overall. Isiah Thomas to the NBA via 
"We don't even know for 1qre hardship and Landon Turner to who is going to play where and an auto accident that left him how we're going to use them." paralyzed. That team finished 
But that's an old song from 19-10 and placed second in the Knight. Right down to last conference. year's winning basket, he "You always have a problem denied that the team was capa­in getting kids to concentrate ble of capturing the national from day-to-day as effectively championship. as you want and I don't think 
When Indiana defeated it's necessarily a result of Syracuse 74-73 at New Orleans, anything that happened the Knight joined UCLA's John year before," Knight said. "We Mark Stevenson lays in two of his 17 points In Wooden and Kentucky's would have the same problem last night's win over Zadar. Notre Dame's next Adolph Rupp as the only if we were coming off a season coaches who have won the where we were trying to NCAA title more than twice. rebound and be a better team." 

Knight has a solid nucleus, The intense, demanding including three starters from Knight puts the responsibility last year's 30-4 team. for the upcoming season 
Top among the returnees is squarely on his shoulders. guard Keith Smart, voted the outstanding player in the Final 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Four after scoring 17 of his 21 points in the second half of the SNOW VOLLEYBALL championship game -including the winning basket with four TOURNAMENT seconds to play. 
-play on the quad-in the snow
The 6-foot-1 senior, a junior college transfer last season, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 
-January 16-17
could be asked to beef up last 
8:00PM 
season's average of 11.2 points -during Winterfest week 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
a game. 
"We're still waiting to see ex­-7 person teams including 2 warne 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
actly what we're going to do 
(no varsity players allowed) 
with Smart," says Knight. "I don't know if we're going to be -Sign-ups December 2 & 3 in SUB 
'TK:Kfi8 AVM.JitBI.Z. AT THE CMC AUDITORIUM BOX Of'PtCL toOHTWIJ"'Da (rGLLII AliD ~ Vl.l.AG! MJ.), SUnR IOCII'tD8 
able to play him as a primary 
scorer or not. I have some office from 12-5 pm (!llUWit). Al'tD J.R... (lA 
PO!m~
reservations about that after 
OWt<lEBYPHOf't!
-limited to 32 teams -$2 per team 
1-219-214-!llto
three weeks of practice. 
"I'm not sure if Smart can PRIZES make the adjustment to pick up the slack from the loss of (Steve) Alford. It's one of the big questions we face as we go For the past two days, the Knights of Columbus has into the season.'' 
presented its essence and its committments. We talked
Center Dean Garrett and for­ward Rick Calloway are the about our beginnings, our dedication to the Church, and to other returning starters. The 6­
Her poor and forgotten. We talked of the four guiding
10 Garrett, another junior col­lege transfer, averaged 11.4 principles of Charity, Unity, Fraternity, and points, 8.5 rebounds and 2.7 
Patriotism. If you are a male, age 18 or older, and
blocks per game. Calloway, a 6-6 junior, contributed 12.6 dedicated to the Church and Her needs, then you ought points and 4.3 rebounds. 
to join the Knights of Columbus.
Alford, the two-time All­American and the school's The question is not "Who are the Knights?" career scoring leader, and for­
but
ward Daryl Thomas are the two missing starters. Alford averaged 22 points and shot 53 percent from 3-point range. "Why aren't I one already?"
Thomas averaged 15.7 points and 5.7 rebounds, shooting 53.8 from the field. 
-If you would like to join or just want more information,
"This is a time of the year that I always enjoy, taking the there will be a special presentation at 7:00 pm tonightplayers and molding them into 
at the Council home (by the Bookstore). Bring your friends,
the type of unit that can win the Big Ten championship," roommates, dormmates--it will not last more than 20 minutes. said Knight. "That remains our 
Interviews will follow. The actual First Degree initiation
first goal. Everything after that is gravy." is Sunday, November 22 at 2:30pm. Please stop by and It'll be a tough goal this 
ask about our work or call 239-7018 and we will talk to
season. The Big Ten has four teams in the top 11 in the you. We need every willing man out there! preseason poll. 

was satisfied with the end "This is the first time we've results. Those outstanding high had an upperclass since we 
"I just went out and wrestled school stats prompted col­took over the program three to my ability," Layton said. "I legiate offers from across the years ago," he said. "You can feel pretty confident about my Midwest. Those schools that really see the leadership." skills, and it was a good way to courted Layton included Okla­



Trivia buffs win trip 
ary 2-9 in Orlando Florida.
Special to the Observer The Hall Presidents Council, 
"How many World Series The Office of Student Activ­were four game sweeps in ities, and OCC Productions the 1960's?" sponsored this event. 
Could you answer this Members of the trivia question? If so, you may team will participate in con­have had a chance to spend tests that will be taped for an exotic week in sunny Or­airing on cable television. 
lando while your friends are Each of the six finalists celebrating an Irish victory finished either first or in Dallas. second in preliminary 
Three contestants of the rounds held Wednesday. All Notre Dame Campus Wide six were asked 30 questions Sports Trivia Challenge covering various sports top­managed to answer ques­ics ranging from baseball to tions like this last night in yachting. the West Point Room in "I am pretty psyched to Lafortune Student Center. go spend a week in the sun Paul Ursino of Alumni Hall, and get out of this cold wea­Mark Lavery of Grace Hall, ther," exclaimed an ex­and Derek Mohr of Stanford uberant Ursino who was earned the right to represent crowned Campus Sports Notre Dame in the Super King. "That question about Bowl of Sports Trivia. Ted how many feathers are on a Woodward of Fisher Hall shuttlecock (badmitton finished fourth and will birdie) almost stumped serve as the alternate. me." 
The three winners will Incidently, there are four­compete as a team against teen to sixteen feathers on a 31 other colleges from Janu-shuttlecock. 
83.45 
-OPEN 7 DA\'S­130 UIXIE HIGHWA\'SOUTH BUSINESS U.S. Jlln ROSELAND I SOUTH BESD>al RANIMI.I."S INN IZII) 272-7376 
December 3 
r----------------,
1 Use this coupon at 1 9:00pm 
I COUNTY MARKET I 
I to redeem $2.00 off our I
I 4 or 6 foot giant deli I
Tickets $5.00 
-
I submarines I
I *orders must be I 
1placed 2 days in II 
I advance* 
L----------------J 
~----.....-----------------......-----------~----~----­
18 
The Observer 
Irish dive into busy weekend 
By PAT KEARNS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams are looking ahead to back-to-back meets this weekend. The Irish face Ferris State Bulldogs tonight at the JACC at 7 p.m. and they travel to Wisconsin­Milwaukee Saturday to face the Panthers at 1 p.m. 
Both the men's and women's teams are 0-1, following losses to Alabama last weekend. Irish head coach Tim Welsh, who handles both the men's and wo­men's teams, is hoping for a successful performance from his squads today and tomor­row. 
"We are clearly looking for a couple of wins," said Welsh. 
The Irish men are going into the Ferris State meet with a 5-2 career record versus the Bul­ldogs, but Welsh does not ex­pect them to roll over and play dead tonight. 
"Their men's team improved dramatically from my first to second year coaching here," Welsh said. "Their team is on the move, and we expect a good meet from them." 
However, Welsh does not ex­pect too much of a challenge from the Ferris State women's team, which is in its first year. 
"Their women's team is in its ffrst year," he said. "It will be difficult for them to be balanced. They will have some areas that are not as strong as others." 
Going into Wisconsin-Milwaukee Saturday, the Irish swimmers have a more diffi­cult task at hand. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee has a history of fine swimming teams, and the Irish men have yet to beat Wisconsin­Milwaukee in five attempts. Both Panther swim teams finished in the top ten in the nation last year. To top it off, the Irish swim teams will be fighting fatigue after its Friday night meet and leaving early Saturday morning for Mil­waukee. The Panther teams will be well-rested, coming off a Tuesday meet. 
But despite these dis­advantages, Coach Welsh ex­pects a good performance by the Irish swimmers. 
"We're going to Wisconsin­Milwaukee to swim fast, not to say we're tired because we swam last night," said Welsh. "We think we line up well with Wisconsin-Milwaukee at first place. Our plan is to win the close matchups at first and to take as many of the other places as we can." 
The Irish swim teams are getting a tough workout this weekend in an attempt to prepare for the upcoming Na­tional Catholic Championships coming up in the first week in December. 
The tournament, which will be held at Notre Dame, will be a difficult challenge for both the men's and women's teams. They will be swimming against tough opponents for three mornings and evenings in a row. 
Coach Welsh thinks the Irish are ready for their upcoming tests, citing an improv~ment in depth over last year's Irish teams. 
"We think we are faster, more balanced, and we cover a meet program better than last year. A team can score three places in 11 events, and we feel that this year we're in better to score in all 33." 
CHIMES  ••••••••••••••••••••••••• THE SAINT MARY'S LITERARY MAGAZINE  
IS NOW ACCEPTING:  
POEMS  PLAYS  SHORT STORIES  

SUBMIT TO CHIMES, 303 MADELEVA HALL 
··············~···················· 

The men's and women's swim teams will have a busy weekend, hosting Ferris State tonight at Rolfs Aquatic Center before heading to Wisconsin-Milwaukee tomorrow. Pat Kearns previews the meets at left. 

Woody Allen's 
Hannah and Her Sisters 
Friday & Saturday November 20 & 21 Carroll Auditorium at SMC Admission $1.50 
So readable the characters jump off the screen. More 
power. Less weight. And an IBM PC®-compatible 
operating system.'Here's the Zenith Data Systems 
Z-181 PC ... a laptop with all the features of a desktop! 
And we can even put a spin on it ... 
Now, the Z-181 Laptop PC can be yours at a great student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­
-stration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! So stop by today. And while you're at it, ask about the Z-183 PC ... our most po~erfullaptop yet. See you soon! 
suggested retail price: $2499 
Special Student Price: $1399 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER CENTER COMPUTER-MATH BUILDING DEMO LAB 239-5600 2~mr1data 
~ systems 
THE~ GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON· 

m 
19 
The Daily Crossword 
Friday 3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering seminar with David Miller, Purdue University, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. • 
4 p.m.: College of Science Lecture in Chemistry, Part III, Theme: Recent Developments in Molecular Orbital Theory, "Quadratic Configuration Interaction -A New Approach to Electron Correlation," by Prof. John Pople, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4: 20 p.m. : Physics Colloquium "Experiments on Time Reversal Symmetry and Parity," by Prof. Norman Ramsey, Harvard, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 4:30p.m.: Mathematical Colloquim, "Permutation Modules," by Prof. Jonat­
han Alperin, University of Chicago, Room 226, CCMB. 7 p.m.: Swimming NDM and NDW vs. Ferris State, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
7:30 & 9:30p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Therese," directed 
by Alain Cavalier, France, Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey ND vs. St. Thomas, JACC Ice Arena. 8:30p.m.: Public Lecture in Physics "Time and the Physical Universe," by 
Prof. Norman Ramsey, Library Auditorium. Saturday 8 a.m. -3 p.m.: Educational Testing Service Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 
12:10 p.m.: Football Notre Dame at Penn State on CBS. 6 p.m. -9 p.m.: International Student Organization Banquet at Knights of Co­lumbus. 
9 p.m. -2 a.m.: "Elements of Style" dance sponsored by AlAS, band-The Bottom Line, $3.50 for members, $4 non-members, at Architecture Building. Sunday 
8 p.m.: Music Department Concert, Notre Dame Chorale Fall Concert, Sacred 

Heart Church. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Grilled Reuben Sandwich Beer Batter Perch Quiche Lorraine Stuffed Shells w;Sauce 
Comics 
Bloom County 
+8(J5H 15 AlitA/? 
JJY 7HI?€e f70!NT5... !10/£ f:f4CK JJY rwo / (:X)I?~ (jp fOil~ / " 
Beernuts 
~ JIICK50N'5 rffl1Cf?!N&/ 
KIJIJC!?r5/JN ~£eN Rt!NN!N6 7WO f70/NT5 IIHt:/117 or /J(//(ffK/.7 
INW~/<­
Saint Mary's Turkey Cutlet with Gravy French Bread Pizza Cheese Blintzes Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 -get-out4 Grain places 9 Blind part 
13 Pillage 15 Of a space 16 Slab 17 Gamble the 
entire roll 19 Biblical 
preposition 20 Starlike 21 Rap sessions? 23 Upright slab 26 Primrose ­27 Automaton 30 Actor Byrnes 32 Old IIddie 35 Hockey name 36 Conductor 39 007 foe 40 Indian 41 Lasts 43 Attention 44 Fake 46 Ten-year 
period 47 Recklessness 
personified 48 Subway fare 50 Bottom line 51 Inquired 53 Nail 55 Distributed 57 Dry 60 Caravansaries 64 Molding 65 Mechanical 
failures 68 "King -" 69 Fr. sociologist 70 Sweet wine 71 Race track 
word 72 Spread 73 -Cayes, 
Haiti 
DOWN 1 Seaweed 2 Author Anita 3 Attic 4 Valuable pelt 5 Uneven: abbr. 6 Zodiac sign 7 Sturdy trees 8 Doze 

© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
11120187
All Rights Reserved 
9 Side-tracked 10 Midday meal 
respite 11 Before: pref. 12 Ring decisions 14 Trunk 18 Infant's toy 22 Swiss river 24 Spiritless 25 Brought as 
evidence 27 Waken rudely 28 Correct: pref. 29 Start a meal 31 Reduce the 
charge 33 Maternally related 
34 Prepared 
apples 37 Remnant 38 Eric the -52 Sharpen 61 Truant In a 42 Shut tightly 54 Obligations way 45 Br. textile 56 Off kilter 62 As to 
dealers 57 Marco -63 Fast jets 49 Slangy 58 Elderly 66 Go wrongnegative 59 Mild oath 67 Fruit drink 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
711€ MO/Jff?N fOt..ITICIIL. fffl?KfliK p,qrJ5€s m !?t!UCT ON 7Hc EXHIIV517Vc 
/JCPTH Of HIS f'IJt..IT!CAL. 
IINAtY51~.. 

Mark Williams 
The Etch-a-Sketch division at work. 

SUB presents: 

-
EUROPEAN VACATION 
Friday & Saturday 7, 9, 11 pm $2.00 Cushing Auditorium 

-r---.-.=--~--~~---------~~~-~~---~--_,..­
page 20 
Rivers paces Irish past Zadar, 120-81 
By RICK RIETBROCK ning the team." 
Zadar had trouble gettmg
Assistant Sports Editor 
good shots most of the game. 
It was merely an exhibition, Notre Dame's pressure man­but the Notre Dame basketball to-man defense caused several team showed fans exactly what turnovers and the Irish also 
to expect this season. dominated the boards, 56-28. David Rivers. A lot of David Notre Dame also shot 60 per­Rivers. cent from the field, compared 
The senior guard, recently to Zadar's 45 percent. named an AP first-team All­Stevenson, who had 13 of his America selection, put on a 17 points in the first half, said show and finished with 31 Notre Dame's showing was en­points in leading the Irish to an couraging. easy 120-81 win over an over­"It feels good to play some­matched Zadar club of Yugos­one other than your team­
lavia. mates," he said. "We played 
On Notre Dame's summer pretty well for the first game. trip to Yugoslavia, Zadar There are little things we have defeated a Rivers-less Irish to get better at, but we'll work squad. on it." 
Rivers had four assists and Freshmen Tim Singleton and 14 points, including two three­Kevin Ellery, and sophomore point baskets, in the first 10:07 Keith Robinson prevented of the first half to give the Irish Zadar from making a game of a 34-10 lead. it. 
"I thought the way we Singleton scored all six of his started, with David in the first points in the second half, four five minutes, that's the way on two breakaway dunks. he's going to have to do it for Ellery scored 11 of his 17 points 1ne uoserver 1 HoOert .Jones 
us all year," said Irish head (six-for-six from the field) and David Rivers drives the lane in Notre Dame's 120-route to 31 points and several crowd-pleasing
coach Digger Phelps. "He pulled down seven of his eight 
81 thrashing of the Zadar club of Yugoslavia. The plays. Rick Rietbrock has the game story at left.
makes other people play bet­rebounds and Robinson hit 
senior point guard showed his flashy style en 
ter." . seven of his 11 points and The list of those 'other' yanked nine of his 12 rebounds people is a long one. in the second frame. 
OC takes IH soccer title, again
In the first half, fellow "It was kind of scary," starters Mark Stevenson, Gary Ellery said of his debut, leaving Voce, Scott Paddock and one to wonder what will come By ROB PIERCE said captain Dave Thompson. Zahm in the semifinals last 
Jamere Jackson (who spent when he is confident. "I tried Sports Writer "We knew our team from the week, and goalkeeper Pat much of the game at point to be calm. I hit my first shot beginning: some used to play Marschall, who finished 
the 
guard, allowing Rivers to play and started to feel comfortable Deja vu ... ? 
for Notre Dame; some played year with an outstanding 0.100 
off-guard) helped Rivers give after that." No. for us last year; and some goalslgame average, the the Irish a 59-35 halftime bulge. Singleton said he was happy Just another 1-0 victory for played together at Flanner." Hoobers recorded their ninth 
Stevenson and Voce hit to observe the opening minutes the Off-Campus Hoobers over A goal by junior forward shutout in ten games.layups off Rivers' passes, and before his first appearance. Zahm. Dave Rulli of Off-Campus with Credit is also due to the Off­then Rivers hit his first of five "I was really comfortable," Deja vu ... ? only three minutes remaining Campus midfielders -Tom three-pointers and a coast-to­said the freshman. "I think it Wrong again. in the contest was all the of­Bowsher, Jim McKeon, and coast layup off a pass-fake to especially helped that I didn't Just a third consecutive fense the Hoobers needed. Rulli Tom Keating. They dominated give Notre Dame a quick nine­start. It prevented some of the campus championship for the took a pass at the top of the· the middle throughout the 
zero lead. jitters." Hoober interhall soccer team. penalty box from fellow game and kept the pressure on After a Zadar hoop, Rivers Zadar was playing the Last night on the frozen linemate Andy Shea and beat the Zahm goal. 
and Stevenson buried jumpers seventh game of their nine­tundra of Moose Krause Zahm goalkeeper John Gis­Last night Bowsher con­to make it 13-2, Irish. game United States tour. The Memorial Stadium, the men's leson, who was playing injured, cluded what may be an un-­
It was that kind of night. club had beaten Valparaiso and interhall soccer league season with the gamewinner. precedented feat in interhall 
"I though Mark Stevenson lost to Loyola, St. Louis, came to a close. And to no one's The rest of the game was con­competition. He finished his was in a pretty good groove," Cleveland State, Kent State surprise, the Hoobers once trolled by the Hoober defense 
career with four champion­
Phelps said. "I thought Voce and Toledo before playing the again came away with the 
-the mainstay for Off-Campus ships -the first with Flanner and Paddock pounded the Irish. The club will play Ball 
trophy. all season. Led by sweeper Ron boards well and Jamere Jack­"It sounds cocky, but we're Yaro, who scored the lone goal son did a pretty good job run-see ZADAR, page 15 not surprised with the season," in the Hoobers 1-0 win over see SOCCER, page 15 
NCAA needs a football playoff system 
If there was ever a week that illustrated all that question is where they play. Former Notre Dame Bowls would host the semis, and the Grandaddy of 
is wrong with college football, this was the one. Athle_tic Director Gene Corrigan suggested using them all, the Rose Bowl, would hold the champion­First the bowls. the current bowl structure. Fine. A 16-team tourn­ship.-Television and fans would love it. The controversy over whether the Irish should go ament requires 15 games. Here's where matters The one drawback, except the fact that the 
to the Orange or Cotton Bowl adds yet more fuel to get a little tricky. egotists in charge of each bowl don't want to, is the fire of another great college football controversy that it requires four extra weeks of the season, and -a playoff. It is time the NCAA instituted a playoff Currently, there are 18 bowl games scheduled. takes athletes out of school around the time when system similar to its great basketball tournament. Obviously, three have to be cut. OK, let's take an most schools have finals. Well, push the opening of Before the bowls get excited, relax, it can be done informal poll. When was the last time anybody out the season back a week and cut a game off the within the existing system. there saw any combination of the following bowls: schedule. 
The first thing needed is a method of selection. 
This is only a suggestion, but the NCAA (Not Forget the committee which which selects the Competent And Alert) has to do something (who teams for the basketball tourney. That only raises Dennis am I kidding?). At the very least, push back the more controversy. Irish head coach Lou Holtz sug­date for bowl bids. Let's see Notre Dame beat gested Tuesday that a computer should be used to Corrigan Miami. Then extend the bids, not before when there 
rank teams. He suggested that it take a team's are still games to be played. 
record, opponent's record and opponent's op­
I Sports Editor
ponent's records into consideration. This seems fair 
l f ­
enough. In fact, The USA Today prints the Sagarin computer rankings which show that the hated Hur­California, All-American or Freedom? It's safe to Ohio State's firing of Earle Bruce really pointed ricanes are the number-one team in the country. say they wouldn't be missed. out what's wrong with college football. All the man The Irish are sixth. The 15 remaining bowls would still make money did was compile the best record in the Big Ten over 
OK, so the computer ranks the teams. How many from television and would take on greater impor­his tenure, including eight-straight bowl appear­get to go? Let's say 16. It's an easy number to set tance. Tl;le eight first-round games could be held at ances. He has an off year and whammo, the Board up a bracket and lets in enough teams that no one the Liberty, Aloha, Sun, Independence, Holiday, of Trustees fires him -not the athletic director (who should have a real beef about not making it in. Gator, Bluebonnet and Hall of Fame Bowls. The resigned in protest), but the Board of Trustees. Realistically, the numbers 17 to 20 teams in a poll quarterfinals could be held at the Cotton, Fiesta, When alumni and fans are doing the hiring and don't have a shot at the title anyway. The next Citrus and Peach Bowls. The Sugar and Orange firing, look out, no job is safe. 


