

Endorsement -page 5 

VOL. XXI, NO. 92 ·MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Man·'s 


As the campaigns end ... 
Tickets debate goals, administration 
By BUD LUEPKE 
Copy Editor 

Seven candidates for student body president voiced their ideas and opinions Sunday night in a debate that focused on "realistic goals" and criticism of the administration. 
Each of the candidates began with a two-minute opening statement and then answered two questions from each of the two panelists, Joe Murphy, editor­in-chief of The Observer, and Kathleen McKernan, news editor for Scholastic magazine. The candidates ended with two-minute closing statements. 
The Unknown candidate, whose running-mate is also unknown, spoke first. He said he was not running ''anot­her joke ticket, not just another Switek and Montanaro." The Unknown can-dictate proposed more "world-record attempts" on campus and more outdoor band concerts." 
He also said he wants to develop a student-run television station. "We've got a $450,000 budget and we're definitely going to spend it," he said. 
The Unknown candidate was the only candidate to speak on the gay-lesbian issue. He said he was opposed to any school-sponsored gay-lesbian club. 
The next speaker, Marty Rodgers, characterized he and his running-mate Buzz Eckelkamp as "normal, laid-back guys who know how to get the job done." Rodgers, the executive coordin­ator for Student Affairs, said he believes student government should confront the University administration 
see DEBATE, page 4 


Ballot items set for Tuesday election 
By SEAN S. HICKEY 
News staff 

Campaigns for the 1987 Notre Dame student government elections are near completion for the Tuesday elections as students compete for positions in­cluding student body president and vice president and five senatorial seats. 
There will also be two referendums for students to vote on. 
Students will vote in their own halls for the Tuesday elections. Voting can be done from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1:30 to 6:30p.m. 
Off-campus students can vote in the lobby of LaFortune from 12 to 5 p.m. 
According to Ombudsman chairman, Dan Gamache, "We should know the results no later than 11 p.m. Tuesday night.''
The Observer /Todd Tucker
Stars and stripes forever "The winning ticket simply needs a majority vote to win: 50 percent plus 
Patriotism abounds today as American ning with this one on South Quad which 1," Gamache said. In the event of a tie, 
flags are hung across the country in is flyin' high. there will be a run-off on Thursday, 
celebration of Presidents' Day, begin-Feb. 19. 

Dissidents kept under house arrest 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Three Soviets were kept under house arrest Sunday after sending a protest to a Kremlin-sponsored peace forum, and the official media said Jews demanding emigra­tion rights were trying to "poison" the meeting. 
The wife of jailed Jewish dis­sident Josef Begun, meanwhile, said she had no word on a So­viet official's statement on U.S. television that her husband was freed. Demonstrators in Mos­cow last week demanded Begun's release and were roughed up by security agents. 
The peace conference en­tered its second day Sunday with a star-studded guest list of about 1,500 Soviet and foreign artists, film stars, writ­ers, politicians, scientists and other participants. 
Soviet dissident Andrei Sak­harov, who spoke to partici­pants Saturday, took the floor again Sunday to criticize the 
U.S. Strategic Defense Initia­tive and the Soviet position in superpower arms talks, parti­cipants said. 
The forum, held at various sites throughout Moscow, was due to end Monday with an ad­dress by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Some participants said they expected Gorbachev to focus on arms control. 
Writers Norman Mailer and Gore Vidal, actor Gregory Peck and industrialist Armand Hammer were among the Americans at the gathering, called the Moscow Forum for a Nuclear-Free World and the Survival of Mankind. 
A group of Soviets who want to join relatives abroad were kept at home by police Sunday after sending a telegram to the forum in which they said the protesters seeking Begun's release were beaten by secur­ity agents. 
"We want this inhumane and illegal action against peaceful people to be known by all mem­bers of the forum, including Mikhail Gorbachev and Andrei Sakharov," said the telegram, sent Saturday by Galina Gerasimov, Alexander Zhdanov and Vladimir Pimonov. 
Gerasimov told The Associ­ated Press on Sunday that all three were being ,kept from leaving their apartments by plainclothes security agents. 
She said she was not sure if the telegram, sent to the pres­ident of the forum, was ever received. 
Leonid Yuzefovich, a Jewish activist, said he and two wo­men got through security at one forum site, the Kosmos Hotel, and distributed an appeal for free emigration of Soviet Jews to Israel. 
Yuzefovich said Soviet offi­cials there refused to accept the appeal, and he was detained for an hour by militiamen. 
Seven tickets are running for the pos­itions of student body president and stu­dent body vice president. Junior Vince Willis, currently manager of Theodore's, is running for student body president with Cathy Nonnenkamp, currently junior class president. Soph­omore Class President Pat Cooke is running for student body president, and junior Laurie Bink, chairman of Junior Parent's Weekend, is running for stu­dent body vice president. 
Junior Marty Rodgers, currently the executive coordinator for Student Af­fairs at Notre Dame, is running for stu­dent body president with junior Dillon Hall President "Buzz" Eckelkamp run­ning for vice president. Other tickets include juniors Bill Sammon and Grace Giorgio, running for student body pres­ident and vice president, respectively, as well as junior John Lake and sopho­more Debbie Delahanty, juniors Willie 
see ELECTION, page 3 

GLND/SMC knew nothing of flyers, says spokesman 
By ANN MARIE DUR­NING 
Staff Reporter 

A spokesman for the group calling itself the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stated it was not responsible for the flyers posted last week that bore the group's post office box number. 
Although the flyers carried the approval stamp of the Office of Student Ac­tivities, Adele Lanan, assis­tant director, said, "We did not approve them. We never saw· the flyers (before they were posted)." 
Lanan said, "We do not know if a stamp was stolen. Security is investigating the matter." 
Student Activities must approve all flyers that are not from clubs and organi­zations of Notre Dame before they may be posted on campus, Lanan said. 
The poster bore the box number and stamp but no group's name, according to several people who saw the posters before Security removed them. 
Michael Dini, chairman of the public relations commit­tee of GLND-SMC, said he had no idea who might be responsible for the flyers. 
Dini said the posting of the flyers "was done at a time when the Student Senate was debating the issue (of homosexuals' rights). There are lots of people on campus, I suppose, who would want to see that our group doesn't get any official recogni­tion." 
• 

The Observer Monday, Febr1Iary 16, 1987 -page 2 

In Brief 
A Notre Dame student will be formally charged today with driving while intoxicated in connection with the Dec. 6 fatal traffic accident involving junior Michael Cogswell, said Mindy Mcintire of the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. Mcintire said a court appearance date for the 21-year-old student will also be set today. Driving while intoxicated is a Class A misdemeanor, which carries a maximum sentence of one year in prison and a $5,000 fine. -The Observer 
Managing the student body elections on Tuesday was discussed at the Judicial Council meeting last Thursday. According to Judicial Coordinator Maria Cintron, the Judicial Board in each dormitory is respon­sible for handling the ballots during the voting periods. According to Dan Gamache, election chairman from Om­budsman, any undergraduate, including those who are seniors, is eligible to vote. All ballots are then to be returned to O'Shaughnessy Hall for counting. -The Ob­server 
Authorities were searching Sunday for a convicted murderer who fooled prison officials into think­ing he was a paraplegic before diving out of his wheelchair to overpower a guard and escape. Robert Blackmon, 43, who was serving a life sentence at Avon Park Correctional Institution for second-degree murder in the 1978 slaying of his wife, took the guard, a medical technician and a fellow inmate hostage, but they escaped, prison officials said. The inmate was injured during a tour in Vietnam, but apparently not as severely as authorities believed. ­
Associated Press 

Women who were pregnant and lived near the Chernobyl nuclear power plant when it exploded and burned last year are 50 percent more likely than others to give birth to a mentally retarded child, a researcher said Sunday. Dr. Robert Gale of the University of Califor­nia in Los Angeles, who has treated victims of the Cher­nobyl disaster, said 300 babies have now been born to mothers who were exposed at short range to Chernobyl's radiation during their pregnancy. The estimate is based in part on studies of survivors of the Hiroshima atomic bomb in World War II, Gale said at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Sci­ence. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
All parking and traffic regulations for faculty and staff wtll be enforced on campus beginning Wednesday, Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security Phil Johnson said. Only the gold, diamond-shaped parking decals or the white hang tags are considered valid for non-student vehicles, he said. The old circular decals have expired and should be removed. -The Observer 
"The Search For Peace and Justice in Ireland" will be the subject of a lecture given by the Right Honorable John Hume, M.P., today at 4:30 in room 120 of the Law School. -The Observer 
. Meet the candidates and a student body debate ts hosted ~y the Saint Mary's student government tonight 
from 8-10 m the Haggar College Center Parlor.-The Ob­
server 


Weather 
Calling all airheads, look out rou mightoe blown away today because' 1t will be continued windy today with partly sunny skies. High in the middle to upper 20s. Partly cloudy tonight with the low in the upper teens. Partly cloudy Tuesday with a 20 percent chance of light 

snow. 


If you care enough. to send the very best, send yourself 
This year, I forgot to send Valentine's cards to the people I love the most. When I think about it, I realize I haven't sent my parents a card for Valentine's Day for years, although they still keep my collection of preschool paste-and­crayon Valentines. 
It's not that I don't love my parents, because I do. And it's not that I don't "care enough to send the very best.." This year, I did send the very best. I went home. 
But this ti10e, situations in the family-at-large were in an uproar. I got home just in time to drive with Mom to the airport for her flight to Austria. Dad and I were in such a nervous state we didn't even remember in what O'Hare lot we'd left the car. 
We didn't even remember what level the con­servative blue Buick was on. (I kept telling Dad that if we'd bought a Mercedes like I had wanted and had it painted pink, this type of thing would never have happened.) But somehow I am thankful for the four hours in the airport (two of them in the parking garage), bec.ause they brought my father and I closer together. 
Somehow, while I was at school, I'd forgotten how interesting my father was. That's a hard thing to do because I'd grown up on his stories of life in Europe and then life in the United States. It was he who originally inspired me to want to write. I got started writing when I started writing his biography, because he's had one interesting experience after another (so 

now you know who to complain. to ...) 
He was also the same man who infuriated me by looking down on writing, the man who wanted me to "get a real job" and be an en­gineer or doctor. Still, he is the man I love most in the world. 
It's hard to tell my father what I feel about him, for some reason. It's much easier to tell my mother what I feel about her. She cries, I cry, and then we hug madly. But my father is another matter entirely. For example, on Feb. 13, his birthday, I tried to tell him how he is like a hot-air balloon to me. You're right if you're thinking that is no great allusion to use. He didn't take all that kindly to it either until 
I explained that to me he was a means of eleva­
i 
tion, which also sounds nasty until I explain that anything I have· become he has brought me to, mentally, financially and psychically. Sometimes I have succeeded to please him, and sometimes I have succeeded just to spite him. 
But however hard it is for me to tell my father I love him, it's hundreds of times harder for him to tell me the same. I was an Innsbruck sophomore when I realized my father hadnever written me a ~etter. You know the. type, I'm sure. Mom wntes the letters and stgns them, "Love, Mom and Dad." 


But I saw my chance when Mom was in Europe with me, and dad was sitting at home. I wrote him and asked him to write me. What I got for the effort was a letter from Grandma (who used to live down the street from us) saying that everything was fine at home, and how was everything with me? You guessed the rest, "Love, Grandma and Dad." 
I don't know where my relationship with my father will go after our weekend at home to­gether talking. I know he is worried about where I'll go with the very liberal arts majors I've chosen, and I must admit I'm more worried now than I was when I decided on them fresh­man year. He's also worried about my dating and my friends, but I've finally reconciled myself to his worries. Even if he can't say it in so many words, I guess his worrying means that he loves me. So, Happy Birthday, Daddy. I love you too. 
SObering Advice:: 

can savealife \ ­
)~ ~

Think Before You Drink Before You Drive 
'Jfle Chada ancl1'1clnJIII'U Hall c~ Center' for tfle ltuG4j of~ Cotfv&ism 
pt'fBmfB 

THE 1987 CUSHWA LECTURE on RELIGIOn ADD PUBLIC LIFE 
"RELIGION AND POLITICAL LIFE: A PARTNERSHIP OF CONVENIENCE OR CONVICTION? ,, 
PAUL SIMON 
U. S. SENATOR OF ILLINOIS FEBBUBBY 16, 1987 
mEIDOBIIL LIBBBBY IUDITOBIUID OlliVEIISITY OF DDTBE DIDIE 
8:111 PJD. 

Anii·VIolenctt Activist C.nler for r..chlng Non-Viule~ce & NCTV full·time atoll. Lodging & $400/mo. ReMarch on aggrdaaion, publishing & lobbying agalnll violence in TV, film, war loya, apor11, ero1ica, ere. Non·violenl films. Next 10 U Illinois. Studenlloana deferable. 217·384·1920. P.O. Bo• 2157, Chem11>"ign IL d1820 
De&ign Editor ................. Chris Donnelly Viewpoint Layout ......... Melinda Murphy Design Aosistant .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Pete LaFleur Accent Copy Editor .... Caroline Gillespie Typesetter ................. Mark McLaughlin Accent Layout............... Sharon Emmite ........................................... Daniel Cahill Typist .. .... . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . ... .. .. .. Colleen Foy News Editor............................ Jim Riley ND Doy Editor .............. Laurine Megna Copy Editor ....................... Karen Webb SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Sport. CoP!/ Editor ......... Rick Rietbrock Ad Design .............. Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Matt Guye Photographer ....................... Jim Carroll 
Tile Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Obterver is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcllliS­ed for S40 ~r year ($2S per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46SS6. 
Tile Observer is a member of Tile Alsodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


The Observer 
Monday, February 16, 1987-page 3 
Security Beat 
The following incidents were reported to Notre Dame Se­curity this weekend: 
Friday 
2 a.m. -Staff at the Alumni-Senior Club reported van­dalism to the walls in the Club. Two sections of the Club's walls were apparently damaged by someone kicking them. Damage is estimated at approximately $180. 10:03-A vehicle was towed from the Post Office parking lot for violation of the parking rules. This vehicle had accumulated eight previous tickets. 10:45-An improperly parked vehicle was towed from the South Dining Hall parking lot. The vehicle had accum­ulated five tickets. 
11:47 -A vehicle was towed from the D-1lot for violation of posted parking restrictions. Five tickets had been issued to this vehicle. 
12:17 p.m.-A vehicle was towed from the B-1 parking lot for parking without a decal. This vehicle had accumulated four previous tickets. 
1: 03 -Four juveniles were found trespassing in the ACC and escorted off campus. 
1:55 -A vehicle was towed from the Post Office parking lot for violation of parking rules. The vehicle had been issued 12 previous citations. 
3: 32 -A student reported her backpack was stolen from the South Dining Hall lobby. The backpack was found on campus but the student's checkbook, calculus book and wallet containing credit cards, were taken from the back­pack. The loss is estimated at approximately $50. 
9:50-Astudent was transported from the ACC to St. Joseph Hospital by ambulance. 
Saturday 
1a.m.-Astudent reported that his automobile was broken into Friday night while parked at the ACC. The victim reported that a tape deck and tapes were stolen and a window was broken. The loss was estimated at $120. 
1:30 a.m. -A student reported finding a jacket near LaFor­tune. He turned in the jacket to the Security office. 
2:36 -Astudent reported receiving a threatening telephone call while working on campus. 
1:52 p.m.-Security recovered a bike valued at $125 in the bushes near Dillon Hall. 1:58-A burglary of Washington Hall was reported. The victims report that sometime between Friday at 10 p.m. and Saturday at 1 p.m., unknown persons entered two offices in Washington and took an Emerson 19-inch tele­vision set and a grocery cart. No value was given of the stolen property. 2 p.m. -Security recovered a golf cart which had been stol':!n from Lewis Hall. The golf cart was found at Alumni. 
Sunday 
1p.m. Astudent was apprehended for throwing toilet paper in the ACC. He was escorted from the game. 3:45p.m.-A student reported losing his roommate's gray sweatshirt at the Duke basketball game. 
ND student assaulted early Saturday 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 

Notre Dame Security and South Bend Police were con­tinuing their investigation Sun­day into Saturday morning's assault and robbery of a female University student. 
The student suffered minor injuries in the incident, which occurred at about 2:10 a.m. near 1124 Eddy St., Assistant Director of Security Phil Johnson said. 
The student was returning from an off-campus party with two other students when two men walked out from an al­leyway, Johnson said. 
The suspects demanded money, but neither displayed a weapon. 
When one of the students said they had no money, a suspect struck her in the head with a plastic flashlight, Johnson said. 
The other suspect then stole a pin from the student, and the two men fled. 
Johnson said the student was taken to St. Joseph's Medical Center where she was treated for minor injuries and released. 
One suspect was described as a black man, 20-21 years old, 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighing 140 pounds. He has short black hair and was wearing tennis shoes. 
The other suspect was des­cribed as a black man, 5 feet 10 inches tall and weighing about 160 pounds. He has short black hair and was wearing new Levi's jeans, a gray ski jacket and a white stocking cap. 
Johnson asked that anyone with information about the in­cident contact Security at 239­5555. 
NAUGLESII 272-5455 
::l TO YOUR DORM! ! 
NITELY 5-12
~ ~ot.~'O 
TACO'S 
;#~
Crisp Tl!Co 1.00

~ 
Soft TliCO 1.25 
NACHOS

Q Fajita TliCO '""*' 1.50 ~ Macho Taco 1.75 Nachos & Cheese 1.25 0 Macho Nachos 2.25 
= ::l
:t Beans & Cheese "' 
BURRilO'S i5
N 
Bean Burrtto 1.50 

Meat Burrtto 2.25 ~~ FROM THE GRILL 

Combo Surrtto 2.00 cg Naugleburger Cheese Burrtto 1.75 Of Fashion
Ill: :I:! 
Chicken Sandwich

MoM n Macho or ~ Additional .75 ::lo 
Macho Fries 

~~ 
::l SALADS N-1 :I: DRINKS 
~ Salad Platter 2.75 :a 
I-c:: Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Slice, Root Beer,
Tostada Grande 3.25 

i 
Dr. Pepper, lemonade, Ice Tea 
[jters 1.00 

NEW PLATTERS 
Milk Shakes 1.25 

~ Enchilada 3.00 0 Soft Taco 3.00 :t Ranchero' 3.00 
Fajlla·Steak' 3.75 501 Dlxleway North
N 
"' (/neLda a..m.-C'-. Salad & £nu..) 
Roseland 
"With Sou< Ooam 
272-5455 
Plus Tax on Above Prices 
6.00 Minimum Order 
~'lee 

SfvU«t~~ 
'Fl 
'P~ 

· · . · · t\ T-SHIRT • FRISBEE 
. .. . tl~ BE~C and VISOR O~'(t'O 
By Mall When You Conflnn Your Room Reaal'llltlon 

$24.50 per day 
fJflr person • quad occupancyQr Side roomS e certain weeks only plus tax
$155.00 perweek 
canca//alionlee$10.00 

D4~TVN41NN~VV4DW4~ 
Information 1·800-874·1822 Reservations 
ON THE OCEAN 
J>()()UII>I:. 

60's • 70's • 80's D.J. D.J. Daily • Pool Bar Entertainment Nitely • Drink Specials Contests • Games T-Shirts • Visors • Mugs Tournaments • Giveaways Promotions • Contests • Fun Promotions • Fun 
..UNI>I:.~ Ill.. CLUil 
D.J. • Ught Show • VIdeo Games 
All Guests Must Have College /.D. Or Be 19 Years Of Age Unless Accompanied By A Parent Or Spouse To Stay At The 
I>~'YT()N~INN 
LOCATED TWO BLOCKS FROM OCEAN CENTER • BOARDWALK • BANDSHELL 
219 S. ATLANTIC • DAYTONA BEACH • FLORIDA 32018 (904) 252·3626 
O'Hara Lincoln Mercury & SAAB in District 2, incumbent junior Brian Holst from Holy Cross in
• 
District 1, and junior Steve Wenc, off-campus, in District
Seniors and Grad Students: ASK ABOUT OUR 5. In District 3, two candidates
Drive a New Lincoln, • 
are running: freshmen Dave Bruner and freshmen Mike



COLLEG~ 
Carrigan, both from Dillon Hall. In District 4, there are
Mercury or SAAB to your 
GRADUATE 
two challengers to the sopho­
future job or on your 
more incumbent Steve Viz of

FINANCE • 
Flanner: sophomore Laura
Spring Break! 

Janke from Pasquerilla East,


PLAN • 
and freshmen Michael Schadek of Grace.
• * Deferred payments for 3 mos. ............... 
Two referendums have also
* Establish credit on your own been added by the senate to the ballot. The first referendum
* Excellent interest rates ======··====== 
states "The University should divest of its holdings in com­panies engaged in business ac­Call for an appointment or stop in and see Charles Mcintosh tivities in South Africa -Yes, 
No, or Undecided." The second referendum states "Every stu­
120 W. McKinley Highway 
dent pays a mandatory $12 an­
Mishwaka, IN (219) 256-0211 nual Observer fee. The quality of the Observer is: Very Good, Good, Average, Poor, or Very Poor." 
Election 
continuedfrom page I 

Franklin and Jim Magnan; as well as "Unknown." 
In the senate race, there are eight candidates running. One student is elected from each district for a total of five stu­dent senators. In this year's election, three of the five districts have candidates run­ning unopposed: sophomore Sean Hoffman of Stanford Hall 
The Observer 

The Observer /Drew Sandler
Sleeping Beauty 
Sophomore Bridget 0 'Brien seems to have tired bewitched by Simone de Beauvoir's "A Very of her book as she slips into slumberland in the Easy Death," and now needs a charming prince lobby of LaFortune. Or has she actually been to awaken her? 
Group's literature protests CIA interviews 
By JOE MARKEY they want to work for," said activities of the agency. "It Staff Reporter Student Senator John Gardiner, was strictly an information 
who helped in what he called campaign," said Gardiner. 
In reaction to the CIA job in­an "information campaign." terviews held last week, a Gardiner said the purpose of The bulletin reviewed the ac­group of students organized by the campaign was to create tivities of the CIA in the pastthe campus group Pax Christe some awareness of the activi­25 years, from its involvement distributed information bul­ties of the CIA. in the 1965 coup in Indonesia letins in front of Memorial Li­which the bulletin said led to brary Thursday. "For the sake of perspec­the slaughter of nearly one mil­
"We're not trying to protest tive," he said, the group's point lion people to its implication in the right to interview; every­was to offer an awareness of the recent Iranian arms scan­one has the right to choose who "questionable and unethical" dal. 
Debate 
continuedfrom page 1 
and "work in cooperation with the administration, but we can­not be friendly with the admin­istration. We want the ability to constructively criticize." 
Rodgers distinguished his ticket from the others in saying that he and Eckelkamp "al­ready had the respect of the ad­ministration" and knew how to deal with it. 
Vince Willis said he and running-mate Cathy Non­nenkamp have realistic ideas that he promised they would implement if elected. "We will represent student opinion to the Board of Trustees and the ad­ministration where a lot of the change has to take place," said Willis. Willis said he would make sure students "got their money's worth" out of student government and stressed the need for more awareness of student programs and for more underclassmen involvement. 
John Lake also emphasized the need for realism in student government. He criticized past platforms for proposing ideas that have "never been imple­mented. Basically you can't change the administration," he said. 
Lake said he and his running­mate, Debbie Delahanty, do not have much experience, but he said he was glad that he did not because "I don't want to be would stress the tradition of Notre Dame. Of the University, Sammon said, "It's Irish, it's Catholic, it's everything that's ever meant anything good." 
Sammon said, "We'd like to set very realistic goals for what we think our (student govern­ment) administration can do. Student government has been basically impotent as far as student governments go." 
Sammon, who came to the debate in a kilt, said he wanted to have "a lot of fun" instead of trying to change the admin­istration. "The administration will be the same administra­tion," he said. 

Willie Franklin and Jim Mag­non round out the presidential nominees. Franklin said stu­dent government needs to chal­
lenge  the  administration,  
"make  them  change  their  
ways."  

Franklin said, "the major obstruction to college life here at Notre Dame is the alcohol 
policy.'' He accused the admin­istration of forcing drinking into private rooms instead of promoting social drinking. "We need a more constructive policy, one that stresses indi­vidual responsibility,'' Franklin said. Franklin said student government needs to have some impact on the ad­ministration. "If we can't make them change their ways we can at least make them look foolish in front of a great num­ber of people," he said. 

involved with past govern­ments." 
Sophomore Class President Pat Cooke is matched with JPW commissioner Laurie Bink. Cooke said he wanted to "make student life a little easier." He said he was positive about the potential in student govern­ment, "potential that has not been realized in recent years." 
Cooke said his positive atti­tude and proven effectiveness would "bring student govern­ment back to students." 
Bill Sammon, who is running with Grace Giorgio, said he 

THERE'S 5nLL 

TIME m PREPARE. 
GRE·GMAT·NCLEX 







6/16 LSAT 
Classes Starting 2/21 


KAPLANI
STANlfY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER lTD. 

You • re the man In charge, And you can hand I e 1t because the Navy has gtven you the management and technical training to get the Job done, 
Thl rtY men report to you, And what you do Includes the care and responsibilitY for millions of dollars worth of soPhisticated eaulpment, 
At age 22 you can oe a leader In the Navy, With all the decision-making authoritY you need to helP you match up to your responsibility. 
The rewards match up too. ~oval Officers receive pay and allowances worthY of a profes­sional. Thirty days paid vacation each year allows you to enJoy some of the fringe benefl ts and travel opportunl ties avallable through the Navy. 
Navy Officers will be on campus Feb lR-19 Sign up at the Placement Office to talk with them personal I y about your future, or call: 

The worlds leading test prep organization 
NAVV OFFICER PROGRAMS
CAll DA'B. MNINGS AND WEEXENDS. WE ARl lNROWNG NOW! 
TAKE CHARGE of YOUR CAREER. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-4115 South Bend, IN lt66J7 256-1455 
. '.-'. . .. . .. -..............-.......... . . . . . . 
-. • • r r ~· ._••.~, •._" .\ ' ,. r ~-~·~_.......... •' .• .• ,..,. ,.,..... , ... ,._ ,• .• .• ~ f" ... •.·• .... -. '1' ~ ' ' '· ........ • • ..-•-t: 1. , • fll_,. •• , • • • .. • • , • • • ., • , ... • • • , • , , , , , • , • • ,. • • • ...-•.••~ ,.• ; • .. ·• ·• ·-_. •• • r a •• "JJ"•· •• ; 1 "' • ._ ':'..· .. -, • 
~ 
"ie~~_O_i_n__f______________
Mon-day-,Feb-ruar-y16,-1987--pag-e5 

Cooke-Dink ticket deserves your vote 
We endorse the ticket of Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink for student body president and student body vice president. 
Stressing "positive effective leadership that brings results," Cooke and Bink's optimism, experience and professionalism make them the most qualified for the position. 
Their platform is based around two main objectives. 
The first objective is to bring student government back to the students. In order to do this, Cooke plans to reach the students by sitting in the dining halls and listening to the suggestions of the student body. He wants a realistic outlook toward student government and seems to recognize that government can be effective if students want to get involved. 
The second objective of the platform is to "make student life easier." Student services, such as providing shuttles to and from the airport before and after breaks and increasing parking security, were two ideas that Cooke mentioned. 
Cooke and Bink's experience in student government affairs was greater than the other candidates'. Cooke has served as president of the Freshman Advisory Council and currently serves as sophomore class president. Bink is currently JPW commissioner. 
Cooke also seemed confident of his ability to deal with the current structure of student government. The tickets of Marty Rodgers and "Buzz" Eckelkamp and Vince Willis and Cathy Nonnenkamp were also well qualified for the position. 
Although Rodgers and Eckelkamp's platform was based on the strength of Rodgers' experience as student government's executive coordinator for student affairs, Cooke's work ethic and practical knowl­edge of the government structure make the ticket superior to Rogers'. 
Despite Vince Willis and Cathy Nonnenkamp's familiarity with stu­dent government affairs, Cooke's assertiveness in dealing with student affairs and the administration make their ticket a better choice. 
Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink's ticket is the best, most well-rounded ticket in this election. They seem to have the knowledge of the student government structure, the desire to begin new activities, and the com­petence and confidence to effectively run student government and truly make it representative of student interests. 
-The Observer 


P.O.BoxQ 

Diversified programs increase education 
Dear Editor: 
Perhaps one response to Professor Charles Rice's diatribes against the de­partment of theology might be the fol­lowing anecdote. 
One of the last times I taught our In­troduction to Theology I had in class a bright, perceptive and sensitive son of an FBI agent. While he was home for Thanksgiving he apparently mentioned to his father some of the biographies we were using in order to illustrate various forms of Christian commit­ment. In addition to Mark's Gospel we were reading the lives of people like Mother Teresa of Calcutta, Dorothy Day and Daniel Berrigan to see how they embodied the Good News in our time. 
The following Monday the father called me from Washington and angrily accused me of obliging his son to read the lives of "known criminals" like Day and Berrigan. Didn't I know that the FBI had suspected and trailed her for decades and that Berrigan had gone to prison for defying the U.S. govern­ment? When I attempted a parallel with the criminal activity of one Jesus, I, of course, drew a blank. At the end of a fairly heated exchange during which he insisted that I could only use right-wing materials in a theology course, I felt obliged to tell him that if he had wanted his son to get a second-rate education, he should have enrolled him in a second-rate university. 
Notre Dame used to have a "religion department" much like the one Profes­sor Rice seems to want now. It was impeccably orthodox and endured roughly from the time of Fr. Sorin until around 1960. Then, in line with other progressive developments initiated by Fr. Hesburgh, it was transformed into a department of theology designed to hold up its head in the scholarly world. To enhance its academic stature, it recruited scholars from far and wide and was soon composed of a wide spec­trum of Roman Catholic thinkers and a smattering of Protestants and Jews of various stripes. Little by little it has become known for the quality of its pro­grams and has drawn first-rate 
graduate students from  all of North  
America and beyond.  
The  older  "religion  department"  

may have served some useful function in the past but it would be ludicrous to think it could be reinstitued in the 1980s. A sense of academic worth, duty to one's discipline and one's peers, the pressure of accrediting agencies and scholarly associations and a desire to serve a wide variety of ecclesial con­stituencies, all conspire to forbid such a regression. 
Smaller, less prestigious schools may be able to promote the kind of parochial education envisaged by Professor Rice but Notre Dame can no longer afford to be a mere center of sectarian in­doctrination. Why, even the Law School is no longer what it once was. Despite a ever-expanding Neo-Gothic facade, Natural law a Ia Dean Manion is no longer its forte. A '50s Law School can no longer serve our needs; neither can a '50s department of religion. 

Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students, and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly con­troversial, please send the quote to the View­point Department, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, In 46556. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 


TH/51'3 SO EXCIT-WE~ A YOIJ~ ATTENTION, Pt..eASC.' 
LAOIE'i>IINOG&NTLtMEN.' 
WHAT lXJ IUEU 8t 5TAIV7N6 THE 
IN6! I HAIJNOI/Jf.A P!?ETTY 
YOU TJIINK. 5131-F-C$TUM TASK. FORCE 
7H£Pe'P fit. 50MANY P£5PcCT­
P£U 0!5­
IJI5TIN61115HE/J P£30-A81.e LOT. 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Obeerver Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Unlver.lty ot Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the pollclee of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
G05H, [)() P5YOf/C POW­W~'U ee A5K&I?
fA/ElL., I IMA6/NE 
YOfJ lHINI< I ti?S ~I [)()N'TR~ 7TJ TAil< A 
SIQUJ7EJJ.. KNOIAI, tveBEtN U!7Z£ 8/T A80i/T 
EV/fRYONE T/?YIN6 7lJ f)E­
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News Editor................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ......................................,.,. .... Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor.......................................... Mark Pankowski 
Quote of the day 
"It is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances, with any portion of the foreign world." 
George Washington (1732-1799) "Farewell Address" 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor.................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Csrol CreadOn Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt 
Founded November 3, 1818 




Accent 
Monday, February 16, 1987-page 6 

Severelya/\ered 
was sitting around myI room Wednesday night. Nothing much was happening. I'd done some homework, gone to visit a friend, had a 
·beer but still there was someth­
ing wrong. I was feeling rest­
less, on edge. Something was 
in the air. 
I sat there feeling this way for another half hour before the knock came. I opened the door and there she was, 
Kris Murphy 
Altered 
in history is in my room," I told him. 
"Sure she is Murph," he chuckled, "that's what you said last Friday night." 
"I'm serious damn it, Marilyn Monroe is in my room." 
"Go back to sleep Murph." 
I realized there was no help to be had there and I ran over to the Oak Room to get some cigarettes. When I got back to my room she was still sitting okay and everything but I was 
restless and all restless spirits 
become ghosts." 
"You look pretty hot for a ghost," I offered, gaining confi­dence. She giggled again and moved clos1'!r. 
"That's why I've come for you. I know you appreciate beautiful women and I know that you're confused, restless. But it's nothing abnormal, you're just a kid." 
"So what can you do for me?" I asked, feeling confused and excited at the same time. 
"I want you to come with me," she murmured huskily. "I can show you things, take you places, teach you what you could never learn anywhere else." 
"I believe that," I replied "but aren't you just a product of my arts-type-weaknessforwomen­·mixed-up-kid-imagination?" 
"Don't be a fool darling," she purred, running her hands 

Before and after in this week's soaps 
ALL MY CHILDREN: Fran­cine threw a match into a was­tebasket, causing· a fire to erupt. Just as Ellen opened the door to Mark's dressing room, an explosion occurred, knocking Ellen unconscious. The restaurant was In ruins. Palmer forgave Natalie for spying on his company's secrets for Adam. Coming: Matt plays his "win­ningest"card to win Erica. 
ANOTHER WORLD: M.J. realized she was getting back into Chad's trap. Rachel was worried about Mac. Michael was getting more anxious about the real reason Donna had been taken from Bay City. Peter began to panic as the search for Linda's murderer continued. Coming: Chad makes a demand that could change M.J. 's life for good. 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: Emily was unprepared for Jane's actions. Joslyn tried to contrive some means of get­ting more information about the journals. Barbara was up­set at the way Duncan was res­ponding. Coming: Dusty is in for a surprise. 
CAPITOL: Jordy tried to hide his real feelings from Leanne. Sam was uncomfort­able with the way Myrna be­haved around him. Trey suspected Angelica was hiding something from him and began to think the worst. Coming: Clarissa makes her true feelings known. 
DALLAS: J.R. paid an emo­tional price for his involve­ment with Calhoun. Ray tried to tell Charlie why he had to stay away from her and her mother. Pam and Cliff locked horns over her loyalty. Bobby took temporary charge of Ewing oil. Coming: J.R. has a surprise for April. 
DAYS OF OUR LIVES: Shane 
tried to get Vicki to admit she 
knew how Alex got hold of the 
fatal drug. Later, Chris got 
Alex to confess he killed Em­
ma. But Abe proved someone 
else administered the lethal 
dose. Kayla forced Patch to 
admit he's Adrienne's brother. 
Coming: Marlena tries to 
"reach" Orpheus. 
FALCON CREST: Vickie and 
Dan's romance was compl­
icated by Angela's peculiar at the hands of her "benefactress." Coming: Jake is worried about Bobbie's mental state. 
GUIDING LIGHT: Although Reva was in Europe, Josh fretted that she might still be in danger from Gearheart's long reach. Rusty felt sure he was close to getting revenge for Roxie's treatment. Com­Ing: Allan pulls a stunt that surprises everyone. 
KNOTS LANDING: Ben told Mack ofhis dilemma and Mack agreed to devise a plan to help him. Greg made up with Laura and announced that he and Jill would marry. Ben later confronted Greg and demanded that he write a suicide note. Coming: Jean Hackney's plan increases the danger to Valene. 
LOVING: Jennie agreed to help Steve and Trisha meet in secret. Ava asked Tony why he's hiding the fact that he's a doctor. Tony had flashbacks of Maria. Clay told Curtis he wants to resume life with the family, but would have to divorce Gwyn and get her out of her job. Coming: Nick comes up with a plan to rid himself of Clay. 
ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Jamie, using Keith's passport, ar­rived in Argentina and killed the man who wouldn't sell him the ranch on which they were growing cocaine. Tina went to Argentina with Max. THejudge refused to grant Vickie and clint a divorce. Coming: Tina greets a surprise with mixed emotions. 
RYAN'S HOPE: Jackie blurted out that Eric is really Joe. After asking Max ifhe was Overlord, Jackie was forcibly drugged. Later, she went to Lazlo for help. Roger told Delia he still loves Maggie. Coming: Joe's past suddenly overwhelms him. 
SANTA B,ARBARA: Mason told Tori he wants to share his life with her. Julia meanwhile fantasized about being married to Mason and having children with him. caroline told Lionel she would tell Alice she's her real mother. Kelly and Jeffrey were snuck into the house in C.C.'s coffin after C.C.'s phony death was an­nounced. Coming: Keith's life takes an unexpected turn. 


Marilyn Monroe. I was dumbfounded. So dumbfounded that I uttered the worst opening line in history; "Uh, hi. I thought you were dead." 
"I am darling," she mur­mured in that incredibly sexy, on my bed. Her shoes were off and her legs were curled up under her body. She was wearing a black cocktail dress and there were diamonds in her ears. She was smiling. 
"The first thing you've got to learn," she told me, "is how to 
Correction 
An interview with WNDU Theater Professor Reginald news co-anchor Maureen Bain. McFadden which appeared WNDU has makeup Feb. 4 stated incorrectly rooms, but no makeup ar­that the station uses the tists. Northwest Indiana and Mic­Another article which ap­higan Wire services. These peared on the same page wire services do not exist. stated incorrectly that 
Also, McFadden has never McFadden's father taught at taken a class with Notre Notre Dame. He never Dame Communication and taught at the University. 

husky voice of hers, "but I've come back for you. You're a 
special case." 
"Thanks," I stammered, not sure whether I should be flat­tered or insulted and not really caring either way. Then I stared at her for a moment and she finally said, "Are you going to invite me in and offer me a cigarette or are we just going to stand here and stare at each other?" 
"Sure, ok, come on in. I don't smoke though so I can't offer you a cigarette." 
"Go get me some," she said sitting down on my bed. 
"Right, cigarettes," I said, feeling like a grade-A moron. "Coming right up." I closed the door behind me and ran up to a friend's room. 
"The most beautiful woman 
smoke." 
"But smoking's bad for you," 
I said. 
"Almost everything that's fun is bad for you," she said, gig­gling while lighting a cigarette and handing it to me. I took it from her and took a puff. "Breathe in deeper," she advised. I did and it felt kind of good. There was a weird cold feeling in my lungs. "Now sit down," she whispered, "and take off your shoes." I com­plied and she moved closer to me. I could smell her perfume and her dress made a rustling sound against her legs. 
"You're probably wondering just what I'm here for," she said. 
"That question had crossed my mind." "Well, I was dead. It was 
through my hair and blowing smoke in my ear, "''m as real as a ghost can possibly be and I'm here for one person only. You." 
"It's not that easy though," I said, "I go to school here. All my friends are here and my parents paid a lot of money for all of this." 
"No," she said. "It is easy. Forget all this and come with me. I'll show you things that aren't in books." 
"''m sure you will," I mut­tered, glancing at her legs. I thought about it for a while. Here I was, sitting in my room while Marilyn Monroe blew in my ear. Millions of men had dreamed about this moment and I was having trouble making the decision. 
Suddenly though, it all be­came clear to me. I would do it but I needed time to say goodbye. "can I have week to get ready?" I asked as she stroked my chest. 
"You can have till Monday night," she said, "but no longer." 
"Will I be coming back here?" I asked hesitantly. 
"That's your decision," she whispered, moving away from me and putting her heels back on. "''ll pick you up Monday night," she said. "Be dressed and ready at nine." 
Then she kissed me goodbye and left. I stood in the doorway watching her walk down the hall. She was giggling again. 
moral code. She accused Richard of fathering Maggie's expected child. Peter started his plan to win back Angela's love. Coming: Chase was anx­ious about Gabrielle's feelings. 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: After his diamond mine deal fell through, Shane tried to find the secret of L'Orlean to protect Anna and Robin. Janet warned Anna not to probe too deeply into camellia's past or she could cause her to go over the edge. Lucy faced danger 
THE YOUNG & THE REST· LESS: Kay's anguish about Philip's disdain for her grew. Nikki reacted to the informa­tion in casey's medical file in a way that threatened her life. Michael continued to press Jill for an answer to his proposal. Lauren fretted that Evan would reveal her part in bring­ing him to Faren. Coming: Vic­tor decides to follow his own Instincts about Asbley. 
1987, McNaught Syndicate 
~--------­

The Observer Monday, February 16, 1987-page 7 


·Sports Briefs 
SMC Intramural basketball begins the first week of March. Entry forms are available at Angela Ath­letic Facility and are due no later than Feb. 25. There is a $10 fee per team. -The Observer 
The NO indoor track team placed seventh at the Central Collegiate Conference championships. Details will appear in tomorrow's issue. -The Observer 
In NBA actionyesterdayotherthan the Lakers-Celtics game, Portland defeated Atlanta, 98-93, and New Jersey topped Cleveland, 120-104. -Associated Press 
In the NHL yesterday Chicago beat Quebec, 6-4, while Washington defeated Edmonton, 5-3. It was the New York Rangers over Pittsburgh, 4-1, and Montreal topped St. Louis, 3-2. -Associated Press 
Upset 
continuedfrom page 12 
surprise me. We've looked at tapes we're he's pulled up two­on-two. That's a simple go, and he's a transition player." 
In the overtime, the Irish took advantage of poor Blue Devil shooting from the line to take the win. Billy King missed a pair with the score tied at 62 and with the Irish up 68-66 and four seconds showing on the clock, the Blue Devils' John Smith, a 79-percent shooter, missed the front end of a one­and-one. 
The Irish, however, used the charity stripe for all the gifts they they could. The Irish shot 
26-of-30 for the game, including a perfect eight for eight in over­time. 
Along with the free-throw shooting, the Irish also had 

Phelps: Irish belong in tournament 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
As soon as Notre Dame downed Duke Sunday for its second major upset of the season, speculation about the Irish chances for an NCAA Tournament bid began. Irish head coach Digger Phelps only had one question on the matter. 
" We're not in yet?" Phelps asked. "DePaul got in last year with a record of 16-12. I would hope that we're one of the top 64 teams in the nation. 
"We're ready. You want to start this week-we'll go. What more can we do? The only thing we want is to get Sean (Connor) back. These kids are ready. It's midseason, and there's nothing to look for. You just go out and play people. Let's just go. We've proved that we can go out and play with the best of the rest. 
"So now it's OK, we're ready for the Tournament." 
Phelps, who deflected ques­tions about his team's NCAA chances at his press conference Thursday before the game, said that Notre Dame's num­ber of wins required to make the tourney had been reached by beating North Carolina and Duke, two Top Twenty teams. 
"All year we've been in every game to show that we can com­pete with the best of the rest,'' Phelps said. "That's all we're trying to do, and come March we'll go for it." 
"You're going to see a lot of teams in with 10 to 13 losses because the balance is there. That's what we've seen today, balance. Take a look at the power ratings of the top 64 teams, and you see a lot of teams with double figure losses." 
Last season with a squad with fewer losses than this year's edition, Phelps refused to make a definite comment on the NCAA Tournament until the Irish downed DePaul at the ACC on Feb. 25. 
Hicks. Aside from his 19 points, Hicks, as is his wont, turned in a stellar defensive job on Amaker. Although, Amaker had 14 points, he hit on only six of his 16 attempts from the field. 
"The game plan was to con­centrate on getting open shots," said Hicks of his scoring. "When (David) Rivers would drive, the Duke defense would collapse, and I was able to get the corner shots and my rhythm going." 
As for Duke head coach Mike Krzyzewski, he could only shake his head about his team's performance. 
"It was a game of many op­portunities for both of them, and they converted on their chances," said Krzyzewski, whose Blue Devils fell to 20-5. "Defensively, I thought we played pretty good, but we fouled a lot. (But) to get fouls means you're playing good of­fense, and then to make the foul shots means you're shooting under pressure. 
"Maybe we rushed our op­portunities because we wanted to quicken the tempo. But we made some poor decisions. We missed a lot in transition and the inside shots that we put back up and couldn't hit. It was very frustrating." 
Sunday's game started streaky. The Irish jumped to a 9-0 lead to open the contest but just as quickly fell behind, 12-9. From then, the game teetered back and forth. The Irish got up nine near the end of the first half, but the Blue Devils over­took them in the second half. From there, neither squad built up a a lead larger than four points. Smith paced the Blue Devils with 19. Besides Hicks, the Irish also got double figure efforts from Donald Royal (16 points), Mark Stevenson (12) and Rivers (12). 
IRISH ITEMS -Quin Snyder, who missed Duke's last­second, meaningless three­pointer at the end of the game, was alsD the same Quin Snyder whose fifth foul put Paddock on the line to hit his clinching free throws. Had Paddock missed and Snyder hit, the resulting shot and technical foul call would have created a confusing controversy that still might not be resolved. 
Sunday's Results 
Notre Dame 70, Duke 66 (OT) 
Duke (66) 
M FG-A FT·A R F p 
Ferry 39 3-12 2-2 3 5 9 
King 39 4-11 0-3 5 4 8 
Smith 36 8-13 3-5 5 3 19 
Amaker 45 6-16 2-2 6 2 14 
Snyder 28 2-4 0-0 1 5 4 
Brickey 6 0-0 1-2 1 1 1 
Strickland 18 1-3 1-1 5 3 3 
Nessley 12 3-3 0-0 5 6
,_,
Abdelnaby 2 0-0 0 1 2 225 28-63 9-15 31 25 66 
FG Pet. -.444. FT Pet. -.600. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -16. Assists -1 1 (Ferry 5). 3-point goals -Ferry. Technicals­Duke bench. 
Notre Dame (70) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P 
Royal 44 4-10 8-8 7 5 16 
Stevenson 38 5-10 2-2 2 5 12 
Voce 38 1-7 1-2 1 0 3 3 
Rivers 44 3-10 6-6 4 2 12 
Hicks 44 7-9 5-8 6 3 19 
Fredrick 7 1-1 2-2 0 1 4 
J. Jackson 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 
Paddock 8 1-1 2-2 2 1 4 225 22-48 26-30 31 20 70 
FG Pet. -.458. FT Pet. -.867. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -16. Assists -14 (Rivers 5). Technicals -none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 29, Duke 26. Regulation· 60-60. Officials-Paul Housman, Dick Paparo, Larry Lembo (all ACC). A ­1 1,418(c). 

The ObserYer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObHfVer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfieds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds ­characters per day. 
NEED 2 GA's DEPAUL CALL STEVE CHAD, PAIGE... Sorry, can I make It up to SMCJUNIORS X3366 DOES THE AF 
you??? ... CHUCK VOTE FOR MARY KIM KOCH

KNOW ABOUT YOUR IS THERE ANYBODY OUT THERE? with FRATERNIZING? CHRISTINE SCHYMIK two (2) DePaul GAs? Will pay$ Bill x1460 
~_NO_T_IC_ES~' ~'--FO_R_R_EN_T~ 
LOOKING FOR A JOB? GET YOUR NANCY KLOC 

WORDPROCESSING FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO RESUME PROFESSIONALLY DONE JULIE BAER HELPI I NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA Patty Censky Happy 21 Love Cathy Mary 
......................................... ········ 
277-8131 FALL SEMESTER 6838889 AT ADWORKS M-F 2:00-5:00 3rd WE ARE PULLING TOGETHER TO 
............................... TICKETS TO THE N[}MIAMI GAME ON Tom Billy FLOOR LAFORTUNE MAKE YOUR SENIOR YEAR SOAR house v.toom w'door ...Windows wbed THURSDAY, MARCH 5. IF YOU CAN ............................................................... but no sheets 234-7654 NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO FRI. FEB 20
TYPING AVAILABLE HELP, PLEASE CALL MARY AT 283· What would SPRING BREAK be like 287·4082 3726. without your · 
CALL BRIDGET 284-4410 Uve In Concert: CIRCUS LUNCH II "CHANGES"
RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S WILL PAY$$$ RAY BANS RAY BANS You know you 
LOVE PUP -Here's your personal. I hope TOUR '87 SUMMER IN EUROPE $279 CALL BRIDGET 284-4410 you had a good weekend (but not TOO VOTE FEB 18 IN HCC
wanl them. You know you need them. Loweal Scheduled Fares to all of Europe WELL COME AND GET THEMI CALL good II) Now, what do I get lor this ? HE77ERICH • SBP from Chicago. Call t (800) 325-2222. I need a group ol2,3, or 4 DEPAUL GAs TIM AT 1801, RM. 324 DILLONI HASHAGEN · VPSA
WANTED 
CALL 2073 GIRL SEEKS LAZY BOY...... PARRISH -VPAA
"THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN" 
Wordprocess1ng-Typing .................................................... 272-8827 Mr. Wienee-You are my best friend and GOVERNMENT JOBSI Now hiring in 
thanks lor always being there, especially 

TO GUS: Laura,
your area, both skilled and unskilled. For to cheer me upl I'm proud of you -con­
BEST WISHES FOR A HAPPY 21ST Thanks. 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277· list of jobs and application. Call (e15) PERSONALS grats on ECUI Well, happy belated Valen­
BIRTHDAYI Pete383-2827 Ext J316 tine's Dayl Love always, Mrs. Wlenee
7406 LOVE:MURPH,HEIDS,BURT,HAPPY, 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, KATE,WILLY. T,MCGREEVE 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, Hey ya nerds, I know I'm a poet, and I
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE ,GORGEOUS,BUNZER 
MRS. COKER, 233·7009. yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, know it, but you can at least try...yeah,
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ············•·•·····•••·······················•••
Asia. All fields. $900-2000 that's you, "the crew," ... the "ultimate" ....................................
BETH GLUNZ
mo.Sightseelng.Free lnlo.Wrlle IJC, PO cruise director.
THE YELLOW SUBMARINE HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAYI SHAWN SEX·DOG SEXTONBX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625TTYPINOOICTATION­
We deliver til midnight dally FAMILY STICKS TOGETHER! PROFESSIONALL Y HANDLED 259· Noel, You're a goddess!
Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free TWINS FOREVER. LOVE,JENNIFERCIRCUS LUNCH II2334 
til March 1. So Shawn, now that you're "cured", how 
Mo Shea-I think you're BEAUTIFULI -a

272-4453 was your V.D.? 
CIRCUS LUNCH II Wanted: South Dining Hall admirer Two Miami (Fla.) GA's. Call Liz 2738 
SOPHOMORES! SOPHOMORES! 
CONGRATULATIONS MICHELLE &HEATHER 

SOPHOMORES I 
TOM I

HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY MARDI GRAS BALL
HELPIII RIDE NEEDED TO INDY OR Career Ia a MAJOR declalon. II you Love, Beth
LOVE Friday, 27 Feb. 1987
DAYTON FOR FEB 20-22.$$$ ERICH haven't decided on one and feel un­2507 prepared to deal with Fall Reglatratlon 
LOST/FOUND I 
MOM,DAD,ERIC Costume or formal attire requested 
which beglna April 23rd, conolder at­Lost : Sliver Wedding Band at the Rock. tanding a career daclalon-maklng Mike,NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK?
Major RewardUose 283-1807) workahop. Workahopo will be held Thanks, klddo.
Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S 
from February 23rd through March 
DRUIDS: It was a great weekend I BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St.

RED PLAID DRESS LOST IN STORM 5th. Call 239-7338 tor datalla.
FOR SALE 
Call40741or robe assignments and wor­Love, Me
just on or N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342CALL 4055 IF FOUND ship times 
............................................................... 
Loat: Seiko Watch at Broomball game CIRCUS LUNCH II BIG APPLE You've got to light lor your right to Stonehenge lives ... 
Donna, get well soon you math wimp.. .

WHO LOVES N.Y.? BOOTA Ill Anne-Marie White make that Sexy "V"... 
at Stepan on Tuesday, Feb. tOll Please 
call Dan at 272·8054. Comfortable ranch lor sale by owner-1 I LOVE N.Y. 
20 to 7 is correct.

mi north of NO library 3 bedrooms,2 DO YOU LOVE N.Y.? 
Construction, Drivers, Welders, Mac­
LOST: GOLD BRACELET WITH baths-low taxes Call 277·1907 
hinists. Will train some positions. (Up to MAROON BIRTHSTONE ON MONDAY, $600G-tnonth) Transcontinental Job $$ 0217 SMC JUNIORS In MexicanBIG APPLEFEBRUARY 9, AT BRIDGET'S. GREAT Search (303) 452-2258 or (308) 382-VOTE FOR Missy: 581 That beats your 51.
BROADWAYSENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, 

3700 lee. MARY KIM KOCH CALL JILL AT 277-8390 OR WILLIE AT 
MADISON AVE 

CHRISTINE SCHYMIK 277-4481. 
TICKETS 
42ND ST LOVE SEX AND THE I.R.SI COMING NANCY KLOC "John, are you done barling yet?" ·BT

BLOOMINGDALESI ­
SOON TO A THEATRE NEAR YOUI JUUE BAERBIG APPLE 
Lost: NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. FROM THE ST. EDWARD'S HALL WE ARE PULLING TOGETHER TO A pair of gold-rimmed, plastic-lensed CALL 4334. PLAYERS. MAKE YOUR SENIOR YEAR SOAR F.C. You're totally hysterical ... I love you 
glasses, Saturday between CompMath Naba -Joe...Queeler, was It so bad you and South Quad. Reward onered. Call CIRCUS LUNCH II BIG APPLE Men of NO: Get your crew chick before had to power Amareno after trl-mll?... Geon at 1935. WHO LOVES N.Y. the season starts, only 7 more weeks of $$ 0217 Ms.Feelme We STILL have Goobs, would two racquetball heads go 
HELPI ALUMNI WILLING TO KILL FOR BIG APPLE happy huntlngl them I at ~ this hard lor just any beer? LOST: One green and one yellow 4 DEPAUL GA'S. SAVE A LIFEI CALL notebOOk In South Dining Hall (east side) MARTY-1471 SPRING BREAK '87 • OCCUPANTS IN ROOM 323 last Wednesday momlng. I have no idea ................................................................ CIRCUS LUNCH II SPEND IT AT DAYTONA BEACH MARRIOTI Attention: Team America, Team what you want w~h those notebOOks, so HELPII NEED 2 GA'S FOR DUKE GAME Contact Campus Rep. 283-4003 Thanks for the great show Canada, and other friendly nations ­just leave them back on the shelves you AND 4 GA'S OR STUD.TICKETS FOR back by popular demand: CIRCUS Signed, Get ready lor a great (I mean really great) took them from. DE PAULl Call MONICA at x4041. I will LUNCH llllllll coming soon to a dining The People Coming 011 the Elevator weekend I 
pay BIG MONEYIII hall near you I Dead Set On BOOTA Ill 
................................................................ 


The Observer Monday, February 16, 1987 -page 8 
Irish wrestlers' long weekend hurts 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Friday night's dual meet with Michigan was the epitome of a Notre Dame wrestling season that has included more than its share of injuries and misfortune. 
In a meet that began more than two hours later than its original starting time, the Irish fell, 39-7, and, more important­ly, lost two 20-match winners­Andy Radenbaugh and Pat Boyd. Radenbaugh and Boyd had been among the last few wrestlers from the season's original starting lineup to sur­vive the year with no injuries. 
"This is just the craziest year 

-
I've experienced in my life," said Head Coach Fran McCann. "It's just crazy. I've never seen anything like this. You're going to get bumps and bruises, but these are all serious injuries. I've never had anyone out for the season before this year." The match, which had originally been switched to an 8 p.m. start just this week, 
"The meet was scheduled for 7, they called me and said it was going to be at 8, and it didn't get started till 9:30 be­cause a women's basketball game was going on. We traveled on the bus for three hours, hung around for three hours, and got on the mat at 9:30," said McCann. "The sad part is that they (Michigan) knew all along when the meet was scheduled for and they lied to us. I would never treat a team like that, and they showed no remorse for it afterward." 
Things got worse. In the first match, Radenbaugh, leading 4­1, fractured his leg just above the ankle. Radenbaugh under­went surgery Saturday, and will be out for the remainder of the season. 
Two matches later, Pat Boyd hurt his shoulder in the first period of his match. He contin­ued to wrestle, and he went on to win the match, but Boyd is now out for at least two weeks. 
"We didn't know how hurt he 
was,"  said  McCann.  "He  
showed  a  lot of guts to  con­ 
tinue."  

The injury is similar to one 
"It's a little worse than Jer­ry's. The swelling's pretty good, and he can't raise his arm at all," said McCann. "It will be at least two weeks. We hope to have him back for regionals." 
The Irish could not recover after that, as junior Ron Wis­niewski's major decision was the only other Notre Dame vic­tory. 
"Ron wrestled very well. It was a nice win for him. He was wrestling a three-time high school state champ in Michigan who was highly recruited, and Ron wrestled hard the whole time," said McCann. "We were just intimidated by them, and that bothered me. 
"It was not a very good weekend. Once Andy got hurt, it just cast a big black cloud on everything. I was extremely upset .about the whole organi­zation of the meet. It may have had some effect on people get­ting injured. · 
"It wasn't fair to the kids," McCann continued. "They were put in a bad situation, and I blame Michigan for it." 

The Observer /Greg Kohs Freshman Joe Fredrick is fouled as he attempts to score. Fredrick hit the free throws to help the Irish upset Duke. Rick Rietbrock covers the role Fredrick and fellow freshman Scott Paddock played in the game beginning on the back page. 
never got started until 9: 30 p.m., causing an Irish team that had just gotten off a bus to Michigan to get even more tired. 

-
suffered by fellow 20-match winner Jerry Durso earlier in the year, which sidelined him for two weeks. 
That was some Wild Birthday 
...I
Party Friday! Cl) 
iC 
Hope it was as LL 
...I
good for you Cl) 
as it was for us. 

Happy 20th B-Day 
Lora Gay 


-

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE Presents a Readers Theatre Production of 
THE 
FIFTH 
SUN 
by Nicholas A Patricca Directed by Frederic Syburg 
Wednesday, February 25, 8:10pm Thursday, February 26, 8:10pm Friday, February 27, 8:10pm Saturday, February 28, 8:10 pm Sunday, March 1, .3:10pm 
WASHINGTON HALL $3 General Admission $2 Students. Senior Citizens available Wednesday, Thursday, Sunday Washington Hall Ticket Office 
12 noon-6 pm weekdays Master Car<Wisa orders: 239·5957 
(I) 
.,r­
* 
(I)

IT'S BACK... ., * 
r­


iC 
(I)

LL 
Cl) 
iC 
(I)

LL 
...I Cl) The Sophomore .,r­* 
...I r­
iC 
* 
(I)

LL 
...I r­
Cl) 
Literary ., ., * *
iC 
....1 r­
.,

Cl) 
• * 
LL Festival (I) 
(I)

LL 
...I r­
Cl) ., 
iC 
....1 
Cl) 
iC 
LL Coming March 1-7~ * 
LL 
...I ' r-
Cl) ., 
* SLF * SLF * SLF * SLF * SLF * SLF * SLF * SLF * SLF 
The Observer 
Elliot claims second Daytona win 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., ­Bill Elliott won his second Daytona 500 as defending champion Geoff Bodine, losing a high-stakes gamble, ran out of gas three laps from the end yesterday at Daytona Interna­tional Speedway. 
Elliott, the 1985 winner, out­muscled the fastest field in Daytona history most of the day. But he had to watch and wait in the last 13 laps as Bodine took a calculated risk by staying on the racetrack, hoping to squeeze 45 laps of racing out of a nearly-empty gas tank. 
Bodine did get in 42 laps and was about 20 seconds in the lead on the 2.5-mile track when his Chevrolet sputtered and quit. The engine stopped just after he had passed the pit en­trance, forcing him to roll slowly around the track while Elliott's Ford Thunderbird and the rest of the lead cars roared past. 
Elliott then held off Benny Parsons for the victory. 
The winner crossed the finish line just six-tenths of a second ahead of Parsons. 
Lady Vols thrash Irish, 90-55 
Special to The Observer 
KNOXVILLE Notre Dame fell victim to Tennes­see's relentless pressure defense Saturday afternoon and the Irish fell to the seventh-ranked Lady Volun­teers, 90-55, in women's bas­ketball. 
Tennessee forced 28 Irish 
turnovers and converted 
many of those into 
breakaway layup baskets. 
Meanwhile the Lady Vols 
featured a balanced attack, 
with seven players scoring 
at least eight points. 
Notre Dame drops to 6-15 
while Tennessee improves to 
18-5. 
"We did not play well at 
all," said Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "We were obvi­ously undermanned and we didn't do too much to help our cause. Tennessee's pres­sure defense just gave us all kinds of problems and we certainly didn't rebound very well." 
The Irish were beaten on the boards, 48-28. 
Sophomore guard Diondra Toney led the Irish with 18 points, equaling her season high. Freshman Annie Schwartz had 16 and Heidi Bunek 11. 
Notre Dame stayed close for the better part of 10 minutes, and trailed by just eight points with eight minutes to play in the half. But a Tennessee spurt in the closing minutes left the Irish 
TRANSFERS! TRANS FE R PARTY 
TRANSFERSI • TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! 
Monday, February, 16th at Theodore's 
--all transfers, past & present are welcome. --transfers from St. Mary's 
will attend. --ND home basketball game will be televised. --food and refreshments will be served. -live DJ will entertain. 
SPONSORED BY THE TRANSFER CLUB AND THE TRANSFER ORIENTATION 
1st deposit Deadline: Feb 20! 
To Sign Up Call 239-7757 
staring at a 37-22 halftime deficit. 
Things got no better in the second period, as Tennessee methodically built on its lead. The final margin of 35 was the game's largest. 
The Irish were plagued with foul trouble from the outset. Bunek, Sandy Bot­ham and Cathy Emigholz all fouled out, leaving Notre Dame with just six players in the final minute. 
Shelly Sexton had 16, while Carla McGhee and Sheila Frost had 12 each for the Vol­unteers. 
Tennessee shot 35 free throws while Notre Dame shot only five. 
Notre Dame returns home to meet Illinois-Chicago at 7:30p.m. Wednesday. 
Monday, February 16, 1987-page 9 


Heroes 
continuedfrom page 12 
Phelps said it would. 
"He kept telling me this was going to be my game," Fredrick said. "I remember riding around since the first 
ND AVE APTS. arly Bird Special~ 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 


~...,.,;~·~•ss~,.~,.._~~~"!>~~!>~~~<;;;~-,'--~~~~~~~~~~ssssssss:-ssssssss~) 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD University of Notre Dame 
presents 

SPRINC BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
RiRht on the beach * RiRht in the middle oF the Sttip 
Driving Packape 

J. 189
Without Transportation... 'f 
Quad Occupancy ... 
Full Package 

J.279
With Transportatfon... 'f 
Quad Occupancy ... 

March 13-22, 1987 
YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: 
• 
Seven nights accommodations at the totally new Riviera Resort Hotel. located right in the middle of the strip at 505 North Atlantic (A1A). This hotel has been totally reno· vated. making it one of the nicest hotels in the middle of the strip. The Riviera has a great cafe restaurant. one of the nicest pool decks anywhere. pool bar. and a niQht­club. Available are hotel rooms for four people and SUites that sleep six (with kitchenette). Both have air condition· ing. color TV. and great new furnishings. 

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury high­way coaches to Ft. Lauderdale. Florida leaving Friday. March 13. Unlike others. we use the newest style buses available. 

• 
Pool deck parties every other day. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts for you to use to save money at places you would go anyway. 

• 
The services of full time travel representatives available daily to throw parties and take good care of you 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. NOTRE 


Arrangements by 
ECHO TRAVEL INC. 
week of practice, he told me I 
was going to win a game and 
it was't going to be a little one, 
it was going to be a big one on 
television." 
"Friday, when I went into 
practice, he and I shot about 
1,500 free throws. I just shot 
free throws and he told me 'You 
know it's going to be a little dif­
ferent with all the fans here but 
it's the same thing, just keep 
your routine and hit it.' He told 
me all week I'd be on the line 
with a chance to win the game. 
"There's just something 
about him," he contin!Jed. "I 
don't know how he knows these 
things are going to happen." 
After those free throws, it 
was time for the other fresh­
man of the day, Paddock, to do 
his part. Put into the game 
when Donald Royal was hitting 
two free throws with 24 seconds 
left to give the Irish the lead 
for good, Paddock rebounded 
the missed free throw by 
Smith, a 79-percent free-throw 
shooter on the season, and was 
fouled. Paddock, shooting 36 
percent from the line, then hit 
both ends of the one-and-one to 
secure the win. 
"We were in the huddle and the guys said, 'Smith's going to miss that free throw and just make sure you box out," Pad­dock said. "Everything worked out well, I boxed out, I got the rebound and when I went to the line, I tried to block out all the distractions and just remem­ber what I worked on in prac­tice. Once I made the first one, the second one was easy." 
Fredrick gives a lot of credit to Scott Hicks, his roommate on the road, for curing the "freshman blues." 
"He had a really big day," Fredrick said. "He's helped to keep me up. It's a big day for our veterans and I'm really happy for Scott Hicks." 
The final statistics give a modest report of the fresh­men's performance. Fredrick finished with four points, one foul and one turnover in seven minutes of play. Paddock ended with four points, two rebounds, one foul and one blocked shot in eight minutes of play. But those numbers hide what the game meant to the Alumni Hall roommates. 
"We've been subbing in for the Gold team all week so we knew the coaches were giving us our chance," Paddock said. "I think we took advantage of 
it., 

-------------------------------------------------" 



Stanford/Lewis squad wins LNO 
Soccer team plays well in tourney 
The Observer 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Digger Phelps and the Notre Dame basketball team have a couple of things to think about when they take the ACC floor against Wagner tonight. 
One is that the NBC cameras, the Dick Enbergs, the Al McGuires and the nationally­ranked teams from the Atlantic Coast Conference are gone, but they still have to play basket­ball. 
Another is Terrance Bailey. The Seahawks were 12-7 

Special to The Observer 
The team representing Stan­ford and Lewis halls won the overall championship in the first-annual Late Night Olym­pics, held Friday at the ACC. 
Fisher!HowardPasquerilla West was second, with 891 points to the winners' 1,030, while Cavanaug.M3reen­Phillips-Holy Cross placed third with 864. Points were awarded for participating in events, winning games and 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish soccer squad per­formed well, but an old nemesis kept the team out of the finals of the Budweiser Indoor Soccer Classic in St. Louis. 
In a three-game set on Sat­urday, the Irish defeated Meremac, 3-1, and Sangamon State, 3-2, but fell to rival In­diana, 4-1. 
A controversial goal by In­diana gave the Hoosiers a 2-1 lead. Notre Dame pulled keeper Dan Lyons for an extra attacker late in the fourth quar­ter, but Indiana scored twice into the open net for the 4-1 final. 
"I was very pleased with the way the guys played," said Head Coach Dennis Grace. "We've finally gotten to the point where we can play with anyone. It started fall break with games like UConn, and I'm glad to see it's carried over to indoor." 
In the first game Saturday morning, the Irish downed 
Los Angeles tops Boston 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Ear­vin "Magic" Johnson scored 39 points and led Los Angeles back from a 17-point third­quarter deficit to a 106-103 vic­tory over the Boston Celtics, giving the Lakers the best record in the NBA. 
Johnson scored eight points over the final three-and-a-half minutes, including two clinch­ing free throws with four seconds to play, to lift the Lakers to their 38th victory in 50 games this season, one game better than the Celtics. 
With the Lakers down by 
three, Johnson hit a 15-foot 
jumper and then made a spin­
ning layup with 1:29 to play to 
give Los Angeles a 98-97 lead. 

heading into a pair of games late last week, and riding a six­game winning streak. Bailey, their main offensive weapon, was fourth in the nation in scoring with an average of 28 points per game, and the 1986 champion. 
"Bailey is a tremendous tal­ent who does everything for Wagner," said Phelps. "They're strong on the boards and right now they're just really in a groove in terms of playing well and doing the right things to win games." 
The senior guard is comple­mented in the backcourt by an-
taking part in the not-quite-so­Olympic activities. 
StanfordLewis also won the grand-prize competition, in which eight of the 12 teams par­ticipated. Teams put in $100 apiece, and the winning dorms won 80 percent of the total. The other 20 percent, as well as all other funds raised in the eve­ning, were donated to the St. Joseph County Special Olym­pics. 
The total amounted to ap­proximately $1,700. 
junior-college power Meremac. Forward Pat Murphy socred one of the goals in front of the hometown folks on the power-play off a feed from forward Randy Morris. 
After losing to Indiana, the Irish edged defending NAIA champions Sangamon State, 3­
2. Midfielder Joe Sternberg 
********************* 
tJUNIORS: JPWREGISTRATION~
*
~ LaFortune, South Alcove 
iC Tuesday, Feb 17 9am -1Opmt Wednesday, Feb 18 9am -1Opm 
t •
You must bring your I.D. iC •You must register at this time to ie attend all weekend events. iC •Tickets will be contained in youriC registration package alongiC with weekend information. 
~******************* 

Warm-up for Bookstore Basketball 
• 
Begins March 1 

• 
5 Person Teams 

• 
Single Elimination Tournament 


Sign up by Tuesday, February 24 in the class office. 
$5.00 Team Fee 
ALL WELCOME 

"We were very pleased," said Sally Derengoski, Assis­tant Director of Non-Varsity Athletics, which sponsored the event. "The participation level was real high and a lot of the extra events went well." 
Advance entries amounted to better than 200 teams and 1,200 participants. Derengoski said approximately 1,000 people ac­tually took part in the Olym­pics, which lasted from 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. 
other senior, Andre Van Drost, who averages eight points per contest. 
At forward are a pair of players with foreign playing experience. Largest Ag­bejemisin (no, we're not kid­ding) stands 6-7 and hails from Ibadan, Nigeria, while 6-6 Dean Borges, who played high­school ball in Puerto Rico, fills the other forward slot. Ag­bejemisin averages better than 12 points and 11 rebounds a game, while Borges contri­butes 13 points and five boards per contest. 
Sophomore Todd Grain, 6-8, 
tallied twice and Morris added one for Notre Dame. 
The Irish needed a victory over Indiana to advance to the finals of the 16-team tourna­ment. But the Hoosiers ad­vanced with Evansville, St. Louis and either Southern Illinois-Edwardsville, Western Illinois or Quincy to the finals. 
* 
~ ~ 
** ""'­
~ 
~ 
..________________________________ 
-

'JI['~t:ll~~--------------------------------------------------------M•o•n•d•ay•'•F•e•b•ru.a.ry--16•'•19•8•7·--pa•g•e•1..
1 

Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Movies this week...
For a good time, 
4.'· Call R-0-S-E 
Wed., Thurs. Saturday 
"Wizards" "...About Last Night"
~ Find out the latest 
7, 9, 11 7, 9:15, 11:30 
n~ events on campus! 
$1.50 $1.50 
EG Auditorium Absolutely no food or drink allowed
239-R-0-S-E 
Sponsored by SAB 

tJX.A .• PO >rJIJ 
1HINK 'tOll CtJflf..JJ 
571/Nfl 8£/NG MIIKK!cfl 10 A... "/JOIN&cK' '! 
Beer Nuts 
IFRIDAY 
YOU WIN' TO TH[ rRI· 
-FAUST ~ALL 
TOM"T' 
~w ·1 j 
Campus 
11:45-1:00 p.m.: Economics Department Development Workshop, "Culture and Traditional Values in Development," by Prof. Denis Goulet, ND, 131 Decio 3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical En­gineering Seminar, ''Experimental Inves­timations into Trailing-Edge Flows, with and without Separation," by Dr. Desmond Adair, NASA-Ames Research Center, 303 Cushing 
3:30 -5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Microsoft Works Database, 108 Comput­ing Center, limit 10, to register call Betty 239-5604 
4:15 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Let­ters, and dept. of phjlosophy lecture, Per­spective Series: Metaphysics. Theme: The Two Types of Entity, "Substances," by Roderick Chisholm, Brown University, Library Lounge 4:30p.m.: Dept. of English Ward-Phillips 1987 Lecture Series, lecture IV. "The Po­etic Experience with Language," by Prof. Gerald Bruns, ND, 222 Hayes-Healy 
4:30 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture, "The Search for Peace and Justice in Ireland," by John Hume, member of the British and European parliaments and leader of Nor­thern Ireland's Social Democratic and Labour Party, 120 Law School, public in­vited 
7:00 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, "Bringing Up Baby," 1938, BW, 102 minutes, directed by Howard Hawks, An­nenber Auditorium 
SObering Advice·.:
BUY OBSERVER 
can save alife\-. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Think Before You Drink Before You Drive 

>rJIJKMJW-I (Q)
lfYmMN1/ttrff WHtN }lXI MY r~ 1HIN&S tJKf ~y 111m: 
0

I 0 
Mark Williams 

7:30p.m.: Basketball, NDM vs Wagner, ACC 8:00p.m.: Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism Lecture, "Religion and Political Life: A Partner­ship of Convenience or Conviction?" by Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill, Memorial Library Auditoirum 
8:00 -10:00 p.m.: Student government "Meet the Presidential Cadidates Night and Student Body Debate," HCC Parlor, SMC 9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "Point of Order," 1964, and "The Red Nightmare," 1962, directed by Emile de Antonio and George W aggner, USA, An­nenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Salisbury Steak 
Cheese & Macaroni 

Filet of Flounder J ardinere 
Grilled Ham & Swiss Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Breaded Pork Cutlet 
Spinach Lasagna 
Grilled Liver & Onions 
Deli Bar 

)~ ~ 
·..c..·' 
;;(......--2.·1G \C 11MI7 UnlverAt PrHI SyndiUl" 
"So, until next week -Adios, amoebas." 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Tarot e.g. SKilled 9 Shoshoneans 
13 Wood-wind 14Ues 16 Good repu­
tation 17 Party pooper 19 Stretched 20 Majors 21 Mars: pref. 22 Monkey 24 Gentlemen 25 Brace 26 NY section 29 Connection 32 Sacred image 33 Train sound 34 Lean-to 36 Wimp's cousin 37 List 38 Young salmon 39 Pant 40 Com servings 41 Different 42 Most tidy 44 Stopped up 
window cracks 46A-oHthe 
old block 47 Letters 48 Obscure 51 Unadorned 52 Crusty item 55 Jai­56 Sweater type 59 Ger. writer 
Thomas 60 Egg-shaped 61 Sheltered 62 Smug one 63 Ripening 
factor 64 Flowers' places 
DOWN 1 Hooded 
garment 2 Busy as­3 Routine 4 Society girl 
for short 5 Like some nights 6 Highway units 

C>1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 2/16/87All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
7 Nev. town 8 Lilliputian 9 Enchanted 
10 Mariners 
11 Non-flying bird 12 Stitches 15 Oddball 18 Hideaway 23 SRO show 24 Fire 25 Sulks 26 Singer Crosby 27 Arctic e.g. 28 Inferior 29 Delineate 30 Blackboard 
requirement 

31 Succinct 
33 Necklace catch 
35-Scott 
37 Investigate 
43 Article 48 Clammy 53 Frosted 
44 Visitor 49 Winglike 54-out 
45 Assistant 50 Hindu princess (makes do) 
47 Having a 51 Crow 57 Grape dull luster 52 Soccer name 58 Catch 


-----------------------------~----------------------------------------------------~ 
S~orts 
Monday, February 16, 1987 -page 12 

Irish dump Duke in OT, 70-66 
ND adds No. 15 Blue Devils to growing ACC casualty list 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Phelps. "We're a team right Sports Editor now that doesn't know how to lose because we just don't quit. If Notre Dame's upset of Even (near the end of regula­North Caroliona two weeks ago tion) when we went down four, was a Notre Dame Moment, we went to zone and got back then Notre Dame's 70-66 over­up two, that's how these kids time upset of 15th-ranked Duke adjust. That's why I love this has to at least qualify as a mini­group. They just do things that moment. they're not supposed to do. 
Senior guard and co-captain That's what makes this an in­Scott Hicks scored a season­teresting basketball team that high 19 points, and freshmen is not done yet with what we're Joe Fredrick and Scott Pad­trying to do." dock came off the bench in The Irish dodged a bullet, overtime to hit key free throws when with 16 seconds left in to add another installment to overtime, Duke guard Tommy the Irish traditon of knocking Amaker led a three-on-one off highly-rated opponents at Blue Devil fast break. Rather the ACC. than press the advantage, 
As has been the case all year, Amaker pulled up and fired the 14-7 Irish fought· and short on an 18-foot jumper. scrapped to hang in the game "When they went down at the and have a shot at victory in end of regulation and didn't the final minutes. Sunday, the score," Phelps said, "I thought lead changed hand seven times the momentum went our way. and was knotted on 11 occas­I liked that juice. sions. "(Amaker's shot) didn't 
"We've been in every game 

Scott Hicks goes into traffic to put up a shot in 
we've played this year," said see UPSET, page 7 
Notre Dame's upset of Duke yesterday. Dennis 
Freshmen Fredrick, Paddock respond down the stretch 
By RICK RIETBROCK Fredrick replaced Mark game," Phelps said. But week. I spent time with him on ran the same offense that had Sports Writer Stevenson, who fouled out just their success came as no his foul shooting all week. I opened Stevenson for jump two seconds into overtime, hit surprise to the Irish coach. He spent time with Scott Paddock shots earlier. The Cincinnati, 
Although few fans would a jumper and two free throws, was telling anyone who would shooting foul shots all week, Ohio, native produced the same have guessed it, Notre Dame while Paddock gathered in listen all week long that it was and those kids were just going results as Stevenson had by head coach Digger Phelps John Smith's missed free throw going to happen. to step up and be heroes burying a baseline jumper to knew it all week. He told Joe with four seconds remaining "I mentioned to people all today." tie the game at 62. Fredrick he was going to be a and made two more free throws week the hero of this game was Even though Fredrick had Then, after getting a player hero against Duke. to ice the game. going to be number three spent nearly the whole game control foul, Fredrick got open And even though it took a Phelps pointed out the contri­(Fredrick)," Phelps said. "I on the bench, Fredrick said in the lane and David Rivers while, Fredrick made Phelps' butions of the freshmen when don't know why, I just felt it. Phelps had not forgotten his found him off a drive. Fredrick predictions come true. mentioning the crucial points That was just something that prediction when he put the was fouled and nearly hit the The freshman guard com­of the game. came out, that Joe Fredrick guard in the lineup to replace shot. That left him at the line bined with his classmate, Scott "Fredrick coming off the was going to be the guy that's Stevenson. for two his first free throws of Paddock, to seal another Notre bench-and he knew this week not going to be afraid to come "He said, 'I told you that you the season with 1:04 left in Dame upset of a nationally­that he was going to play-along off the bench and stick them were going to be a hero, now overtime and the game tied at ranked team at the time when with Scott Paddock, got us six when we need them no matter you've got five minutes to do 64. He made both foul shots. freshmen are not supposed to points at the end of the game. what the situation was going to it," Fredrick recalled. Once again, it happened just as be mature enough to perform. For the freshmen to get those be. When Fredrick entered the The final moments. six points was the key to the "And I prepped him on it all game in the overtime, the Irish see HEROES, page 9 
Hockey team remains inconsistent; loses, ties in frustrating weekend 
By CHRIS DALLAVO up front, and also on defense," The game-tying goal came Sports Writer Smith continued. "Four oftheir when the Irish pulled their goals came right after a face­goaltender, which is the first 
Let's just say the Irish bas­off, which indicates how bad it time that has worked this year. ketball team fared a little bet­was." "This team is hard to figure ter than the hockey team this out," Smith said. "One day we past weekend. Coach Lefty Saturday was a different play with a complete lack of Smith's squad dropped a 9-1 story, however, as the Irish enthusiasm, and the next, we decision at Michigan-Dearborn fought back to tie the game show the heart that we were Friday night, but rebounded with only 28 seconds left. The missing." Saturday to tie the Wolves, 4-4. comeback was spurred by the Injuries continue to plague 
"Friday's game was one of return of Irish captain Mike the Irish, although Smith hopes those that you see in a McNeill to the center position. to get three key players, Brian nightmare," lamented Smith. McNeill, who had been moved Montgomery, Roy Bemiss and "We played so poorly it was to defense because of injuries, Tom Smith, back this week. pathetic." ignited the offense with two 
The lone Irish goal was goals, including the game­"We're still shuffling lines scored by freshman defen­tying tally. around, but hopefully we will seman Bruce Haikola in the settle down when they return," third period, which averted the "If we could split McNeill in Smith noted. shutout. half, we would be in great The Irish travel to Lake For­
Contrary to what the score shape," praised Smith. " He est next weekend for a pair of indicates, goaltending was not really means a lot to this games as they try to gain some the main problem. It was more team." momentum for the upcoming 
The Notre Dame hockey team lost one and tied one this weekend of an overall lack of enthusi­The Irish got goals from Matt American Collegiate Hockeyagainst Michigan-Dearborn. Chris Dallavo recaps the action at asm at both ends of the ice. Hanzel and Bruce Guay prior Playoffs to be held at Notre right. 
"We were hurt by poor play to McNeill's crucial scores. Dame March 6-7. 









