---~--~~-­
Corps of hope-page 7 


VOL. XXI, NO. 74 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Montanaro found guilty of plagiarizing research paper 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
and TRIPP BALTZ News Editors 
An academic honesty com­mittee found Student Body Vice President Don Montanaro guilty last week. of plagiarizing a major research paper, sources told The Observer. 
Montanaro was ordered to rewrite the paper on a different topic or flunk the fall-semester 
course,  said  a  source, who  
spoke  on  condition  of  
anonymity.  

Two other Notre Dame stu­dents, who were working with Montanaro on the group proj­ect, were also found guilty of plagiarizing, the source said. 
Montanaro would not discuss details about the committee proceedings. He did say, however, "I can tell you what is involved in this situation is poor organization, careless­ness and ignorance of the rule of footnoting. 
"What has come out of this is that we have to produce a new paper." 
One of the students this week confirmed the three appeared before an academic honesty committee on Wednesday. He declined further comment, saying the committee's proceedings are confidential. 
Speaking Tuesday night, Montanaro said the incident "in no way affects my ability to do my duty as student body vice president.'' 
Student Academic Commis­sioner Doug Wurth, however, said he thinks Montanaro should resign. 
"I think anyone should resign their position of leadership if they've been shown to violate or ignore the University regu­lations," Wurth said. "Basical­ly, it's a violation of the com­munity." 
Student Body President Mike Switek was not at home Tues­day night and could not be reached for comment. 
Montanaro and the students were caught plagiarizing late last semester in a class entitled "American Voting and Elec­tions," the source said. 
The 400-level government course was taught by Professor David Leege, who acknowl­edged that an incident of plagiarism occurred in his class last semester. 
"I have indicated publicly that there was a charge of plagiarism in my class and that the charge was sent to the de­partment's honesty commit­tee," said Leege, who declined further comment. 
The source said Montanaro plagiarized by copying from publications and not document­ing where the information came from. 
Montanaro and the stu­dents' punishment entails that they must get the equivalent of a "B" on the paper they are to rewrite, the source said. No matter what grade they nor­mally would receive on the paper, however, they still will get a failing grade on it. 
The failing grade will then be 
averaged in with their mid­
term and final exam grades, 
the only other marks they 
received in the course, the 
source said. If they fail to do 
the paper, they fail the course. 
Notre Dame's student hand­
book du Lac states that a stu­
dent committing an academic 
offense, if serious enough, 
could face ''penalties up to dis­
missal from the University." 
The penalty's severity also 
depends on whether the student 
has committed a previous of­
fense, duLac states. 

Students found guilty of aca­demic offenses have the option of appealing the committee's decision to the dean of the col­lege. Montanaro and the two · students are apparently not 
appealing. 
A few years ago, Wurth said, 
the administration asked a stu­
dent leader to resign because 
the leader charged personal 
phone calls to a student govern­
ment credit card. Wurth added, 
however, that he doubted the 
administration would ask for 
Montanaro's resignation. 
Montanaro said the adminis­
tration has taken no stand on 
the plagiarism incident. 
"This is a college matter," 
he said. 
University Vice President 
for Student Affairs Father 
David Tyson was attending 
meetings Tuesday and could 
See PLAGIARIZE, page S 

Student leaders renew alcohol awareness with zeal 
Editor's Note: these articles ter of BACCHUS, a national the problem of drunk students always will drink al­Specifically, the group mark the first part ofa three­group which promotes re­driving," Willis said. "You cohol. plans to promote alcohol edu­day series that examines the sponsible drinking, it's a 
obviously can't just tell "We're acknowledging that cation inside and outside the 
issues and incidents of drunk chance to gain more active people they can't drink." alcohol is part of the social Notre Dame classroom,driving in the Notre Dame support for his group's ideas. Willis said BACCHUS' goals life here," he said. "We're similar to classes and and Saint Mary's communit­"Since the accidents, every­are realistic, because they saying it's not bad to drink, if ies. one has been more willing to are based on the premise that drinking is done responsibly.'' See LEADERS, pageS 
talk about the alcohol prob­

By CINDY RAUCKHORST lem on campus," Willis said. 
Driver: How could I do something like that? 
''The whole University has Senior Staff Reporter been very supportive of BAC­By TRIPP BALTZ cious, he suffered a one-hour The county prosecutor's of­CHUS," he said. News Editor lapse of memory, facial cuts fice classified her crime as a 
Student leaders agree that Willis, who also manages and bruises, and broken up­Class C misdemeanor. She last semester's unfortunate Theodore's, said more than A car returning home from per and lower jaws. was 19 at the time of the Sept. alcohol-related accidents 300 schools belong to BAC­an off-campus party strikes a The 20-year-old student who 27 accident. probably will do more to deter CHUS nationwide. Notre pedestrian early one Satur­was driving the car that mor-She said she remembers ex­students from drinking and Dame is one of the newest day morning on South Bend 
actly what the judge said to driving than any awareness members, officially joining A venue not far from two her on her final court date programs can ever do. earlier this year. popular student bars. Dec. 9. "He said, 'I don't know 
"For most of us, it's like a At the group's annual The driver pulls over and Drunk what it is about you ND stu­brick over the head. You can't meetings, he and representa­walks over to the scene. Driving dents. You cannot drink and hit more close to home than tives from other campuses Slowly a small crowd forms. get behind the wheel of a car.'
and

that," said Jeanne Heller, discuss ideas, events and Police cars converge on the " 
Saint Mary's student body problems which occur in scene and immediate atten­ND/SMC The victim in the accident 
president. dealing with the national tion is paid to the injured vic­was Craig Gundersen, a 
But with the death of Zahm crisis of alcohol and drug ad­tim. Grace Hall freshman. Gun­Hall junior Michael Cogswell diction, Willis said. The driver, a Notre Dame ning now looks back on the in­dersen, whose mouth was as a constant reminder, Hel­Willis then returns to Notre student, is charged with cident as an ordeal of guilt wired shut for the six weeks ler and other leaders are Dame and Saint Mary's, driving under the influence of and fear. after the accident, will have renewing alcohol awareness where programs such as next alcohol and taken to the Just knowing that I could do braces put on this summer to efforts with extra zeal on both week's alcohol awareness county jail. something like that. That's correct his teeth. campuses. program turn from ideas into The victim, also a Notre what I kept thinking -how For the most part, however, 
For Vince Willis, vice pres­reality. Dame student, is taken to St. could I do something like 
See DRIVER, page 3 

ident of the Notre Dame chap-"There's no easy solution to Joseph's Hospital. Uncon-that?" 

--------------~~--~--­
The Observer Wednesday, January 21, 1987 -page 2 

In Brief 
Notre Dame Security has received 33 larceny reports of items taken from south d~ing ~all since Au~. 26 said Assistant Director of Security Phtl Johnson. Stx of' the reports involved stolen clothing, the rest inv?lved books or book bags, he said. The total value of the 1~el?s taken was about $3,000. Johnson asked that anyone notlcmg any suspicious activity at South Dining ~all or having information about the thefts contact Securtty at 239-5555. 
-The Observer 

Student vehicles parked in B1., M, Br3, administration, bookstore, north dining hall, south dining hall, Stepan, and stadium parking lots will be towed away after midnight, Notre Dame Security announced. The rule is part of the new snow-removal guidelines. -The Observer 
Freshmen who've chosen a major are less likely to drop out than their undecided peers, says Felix Savino, a housing coordinator at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Savino, who surveyed several hundred freshmen, also reported the students were most concerned about financing their education and the lack of personal contact with their professors. -The Observer 
.. 

The "Today" show interviewed Kevin Herbert this morning. Herbert, who two years ago won the MS rock-a-like ccntest for his impersonation of Bruce Springsteen, discussed his work with MS. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
"The Great Diaper Race," a caie study presentation of changes Procter & Gamble made in the design, production and advertising of the Pampers dis­posable diaper, will be presented by Richard Nicolosi tonight at 6: 30 in the Center For Continuing Education. Students are also invited to informal discussions with members of the Procter & Gamble organization today from 10 a.m. -4 p.m. in the MBA lounge, room 258 Engi­neering Building, in the entry to Hurley Hall and in the lobby of Hayes-Healey. -The Observer 
Saint Joseph's Hospital is seeking emergency room volunteers. Interested students should attend a meeting Thursday at 4 p.m. in room 123 Niewland Science Hall. -The Observer 
Wednesday lunch fast sign-ups will be in the dining halls today and tomorrow. One dollar will be donated to aid projects in this country and less developed countries for every Wednesday lunch missed. -The Obser­ver 
Tickets for the 1987 Keenan Revue will be distributed free of charge to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students on Friday. Students can receive two tickets by presenting an ID with a maximum of two ID's per person allowed. Distribution for Notre Dame students will start at 1 p.m. inside Gate 3 of the ACC. No lines may form prior to noon. Saint Mary's students will start at 4:30p.m. inside O'Laughlin Auditorium with no lines forming before 3:30p.m. -The Observer 
Members of C.I.L.A. will hold a meeting today at 3:30p.m. in the coffee room at The Center For Social Concerns. Anyone interested in working on an aluminum can recycling project should attend. -The Observer 

Weather 
Winter will continue its January surge today and tomorrow as temperatures on all the major thermometers remain ac­tive in the mid 20s. Speculators were spurned to predict a low in the mid teens for tonight by rumors that more snow would be invested in the already snow­rich economy. -The Observer 


Dnign EditOf' . . . . . . .. . ... .. . . . . Kathy Huston De.rign As.Utant . .... .. . . .. .. Andy Fenoglio T11pe1etter .... .. .... . .. .. . Becky Gunderman ........................................... Michael Buc New• Editor.................. Chris Bednarski Cow Editor ..................... Bud Luepke Sport• Cow Editor ............. Marty Burns Vie1Dpomt CopJI Editor ........... Bob White 
Viewpoint La11out.. ........ Kathleen Moran Accent La11out.............. Melinda Murphy TJipilt .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. ... .. .. . .. .. .. . Esther Ivory ND Da11 Editor .................. Susan Coena SMC Da11 Editor ........ .. .. . Monique Kelly Ad Derign................. .... Sharon Emmite Sport• WedneldaJI Editor ..... Pete Gegen Sport• Wednerday Duign .. Matt Breslin Photographer ......................... Bob Jones 
Tile Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. Tile Obsencr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Damc,lndiana46SS6. 
The Observer is a member of The Assodated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Fired friend not perfect but will be missed by at least one 
A friend of mine told me last night that he was no longer employed. 
He did not quit, even though he knew that continuing to work in the position he held jeopardized his future with the business. To him, quitting was something he could not even consider; it meant giving up, and he would never give up on a commitment he had under­taken. 
And so he continued to work, hoping things between him and the management would some­how get better. But they didn't, and yesterday my friend called to say he had been fired. 
Anyone who has ever experienced a firing knows how devastating it can be. It is not just the loss of a paycheck and the security a salary brings; this was not a problem for my friend, who has already obtained other employment. 
Being fired is more a loss of an identity; you are no longer part of an organization by which you defined yourself. You no longer have a place where you are needed for your own personal abilities, and that can leave you feeling adrift and more than a little like a failure. 
In the case of my friend, anyone who ever worked with or under him knows this is simply not true. Vince Lombardi once said, "If you're lucky enough find a guy with a lot of head and a lot of heart, he's never going to come off the field second." Judged by these standards, my friend lost nothing more than his position, be­cause no one put more of himself into every­thing he undertook than he did. 
Sometimes that got him into trouble; it was probably the characteristic which got him fired. Because he had such enthusiasm for the work he did, and because he set such high standards for himself, he often demanded more from his colleagues and employees than it seemed he had a right to. His own confidence that he would succeed in anything he attempted might have been considered cockiness, and was often a source of friction between him and others. But it was also an infectious quality that imbued his staff with the same assurance. 
I remember the time he told me about a proj­ect that had to be completed in a four-hour dead­line, a project that was so involved and impor­tant that most people thought it could not be done within such stringent time limits. Not only did his staff finish the job in the record time he had set, but they produced some of their best work. And I know my friend was there from beginning to end, doing as much as everyone else and giving them the confidence to succeed. 
I also remember the times he called and told 


Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 

me about mechanical problems in his office, problems which he often worked late into the night to correct. There was no recognition in these hours of overtime work and little reward other than the personal satisfaction which comes from a job well done. But that was enough for my friend, and it kept him going when most people would have given up. 
I don't mean to make this man sound like the perfect worker, or some kind of hero for manag­ing to get fired from his job. I know he might have been difficult to work with, and I can only imagine what it would have been like to be his boss. I suppose I'll never know all the reasons why he was relieved of his duties; that is some­thing between him and his boss,.and I don't pretend to know the answers. 
I do know that he'll be missed by those he worked with. And if you're wondering why I'm writing this article, telling you about a friend of mine who lost his job just like thousands of other people in thousands of other offices all over the country, I guess that's the reason. I guess I hope he'll get a chance to read this, and that he'll know he will be missed. 



The Yellow Submarine 

272-4453 
Delivery Special 'til Feb. 1 Buy 2 subs and try our 6" snack sub FREE. 
Try our NEW ham, roast beef & turkey club combo. 
• • • • • • .!Jlnnouncing tlie • • • • • • 
.. • •
.....' ..... • • • 
• (jrand ·Opening ... -.....
. . ' 
•

••• of
• 

•••• • • • The Country •• • I •• 
• 


•
• 

••• Harvester
•
• 
•
• 
unique yogurt items 

• 
trail mixes 


•
••• dried fruits andnuts
•
• assortment ofgifts and 
• 
handmade items
• 
• c{f~& ~~fMJ!Pfl&~c
• 

••••• • • •• • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • •• • • ·• ••• • • 
Located in the basement 
•
ofLaFortune 
•I I•• 
• • • • • • ~W@\mlliC-' • • ' 1 
•• • • • • • • • • • • ••• • e'-!.1 I 

• 
••••I • HOURS: ••••• Mon.-Fri. : 11-8 pm • Sat. -Sun.: 12-5 pm •••• 

The Observer Wednesday, January 21, 1987-page 3 



It's official at last: Hiler wins 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Ind. -Rep. John Hiler, R-Ind., won the recount of the nation's closest congres­sional race Tuesday by 47 votes and returned to Washington to resume work in the lOOth Congress. 
The final tally presented to the State Recount Commission showed Hiler with 75,979 votes and Democratic challenger Thomas Ward with 75,932 votes. 
Hiler won the Nov. 4 election 
Driver 
continuedfrom page 1 
he has recovered from the ac­cident. 
The driver of the car that hit him said her immediate thoughts after the accident were of the victim. "Everyone was· so supportive of me. I was concerned more about Craig than anything. 
"Craig was punished for something I did." 
She read The Observer's ar­ticles on the two other inci­dents that occurred last se­mester involving drunk by 66 votes. Ward's staff conceded defeat after fighting the original tally for more than two months. 
driving.  ·  
"But  I  could  understand  
how  much  it  hurt  (the  
drivers) . "  

"It's over. Ittook 77 days, but the original (election) certifi­cate is reaffirmed," Hiler said. 
Secretary of State Evan Bayh the chairman of the bi­partisan recount commission, said the three-member panel will hold a formal vote Friday to confirm Hiler's victory. 
"It's pro forma. Nothing's going to change," he said. 
Ward's campaign manager, 
Her rector, Sister Jo Screes, believes the students who were charged · for drunk driving in last semester's in­cidents can have a strong ef­fect on the students in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. Their experi­ence, she said, "can be a pow­erful witness." 
"They can say, 'This is the law. And this is what hap­pened to me,' '' Screes added. "They can raise conscious­ness on this issue." 
The driver of the car that hit Gundersen said the inci­dent has made her more aware of the problem of drunk driving. "Oh, yes," she said. "I have become more aware." 
She said she feels students Mike Marshall, said Ward would hold a news conference Wednesday to discuss his fu­ture. Marshall refused to say whether Ward would run again for Congress in 1988. 
James Masters, Ward's at­torney during the recount, said he had advised Ward not to challenge the outcome in court. An appeal would leave district voters in doubt about their rep­resentation in Congress, he said. "(Ward) does not want to be party to that sort of thing," he said. 
do not realize what a respon­sibility it is they face when they step behind the wheel after a few drinks. "I honestly don't think students think about what's happened to other people." 
Gundersen claims the expe­rience has increased his own awareness about drunk driving. He described the mentality towards drunk 
driving of his  friends  back  
home in Wisconsin  as  very  
lax.  

"Because of the three acci­dents that occurred at Notre Dame last year, I think the students here have greater awareness," he said. 
Greater general awareness is something the driver of the car thinks could help end the 


Do you need $$$$$? Are you good with computers? then... 

__,_......_........., 
JJIJI~·lt\u\~~ 

Student Government is looking for YOU! 
The Student Government Treasurer's Office is seeking an indi­vidual who will automate our accounting system. You would be responsible for developing a program to maintain records and generate financial statements of all student activity fee trans­actions. 
See 'Becca or Chris for additional info and application in the Treasurer's Office, 2nd Floor La Fortune 12-4 Mon-Fri. 


Join us for a MARRIAGE PREPARATION INFORMATION NIGHT 
Tuesday, Jan. 27th 
7:30-g:oo pm 

Badin Hall Chapel 


Marriage preparation is a Diocesan requirement nationwide. Ifyou are getting manied in Sacred Hearl Church oryour own parish ·you may do yow-marriage preparation here. 
ITS NEVER TOO SOON TO START! 
CaD University Ministry Badin Office: 239-5242 

OFFICE Of 
L.Nvt:RSITY MNSTRY 
Students get obscene calls 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
Since Christmas Break, six Notre Dame students have received obscene phone calls from a man claiming to be holding their parents hostage. 
Notre Dame Security Detective Anne Schellinger said the caller phones female students and threatens to kill their parents unless the stu­dents do what he tells them. 
The caller, believed to be at least 30 years old, uses "very vile language" and "talks with authority in a monotone voice," Schel­linger said. 
"The calls are extremely obscene in nature," she said. 
Schellinger said the calls are especially worrisome for students because they're un­able to call their parents while talking to the man. 
have no way of knowing whe­ther or not the caller is actu­ally holding their parents hostage, Schellinger said. "A person could have a nervous breakdown," she said. 
Schellinger recommended that students hang up imme­diately upon receiving a call from the man. 
Of the six calls, Schellinger said three were reported Tuesday. She said she did not know whether Saint Mary's students had received any of the calls. 
Schellinger, however, said the caller may be the same man who phoned Saint Mary's students about five months ago claiming to be conducting a National Edu­cational Association survey. 
Schellinger asked that anyone receiving one of the calls or having information about the caller contact Se­curity at 239-5555. 
problem of drunk driving. "It she will be required to givewill take more than people five lectures on her experi­saying this could happen to ence. She said her messageme," she said. will be "It happened, you
"It's not something I take make mistakes, you don't let lightly any more," she added. it happen again. "It's gotta stop. It's terrible, "I'm not such a terrible per­
what's happened so far." son," she said. "But I did a As part of her punishment, terrible thing.'' 
w w w w w w a
' 

Neighborhood Study Help Program 
Sign-ups: 
Today in the dining halls tomorrow night at the esc Fest Organizational meeting 
for all prospective tutors: Tuesday, Jan. 27 at 7:00 at the esc 
Encouraging the individual growth ofthe children ofSouth Bend 
' ,. ,. M " M M • 

considering applicants for 1987-1988 summer Internship opportun­Ities. Career opportunities In this area are vast; they include posi­tions In Accountancy, Communications, Computer Science, Human Resources, Insurance, Investments, Law, Marketing, Consulting, etc. 
Successful candidates work in full-time paid positions with ftrms during the two summers before graduation and attend required educational seminars in Chkago during the academk year. Posl· tlons are available primarily In Chicago, Milwaukee, Cleveland, 
and Rochester, N.Y. 
LF. lat_...is for the energetic sophomore seeking to channel academk excellence toward speclfk career goals. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. Deaclllne for application is Jan. 30. 
Additional Information: ...and applications are available from: 
ea...--·....._.s-.tc.. 
Jleaol'laJIJinoav 

n........, nlfa t ,._.aff r' ,,.._..."--11•--.~..,.,., ••••• ' M•. 


.....-~-....._----~-------------~~~ --~----------~--­
The Observer Wednesday, January 21, 1987-page 4 



Time to take action for HPC 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST Senior Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents' Coun­cil last night formed a special committee to discuss solu­tions to alcohol-related campus problems. 
"We don't have any definite answers, but if we talk about it, maybe we can identify some of the possible solu­tions,'' said HPC Co­chairman Joanie Cahill. "It's time for us to take some kind of action," she said. 
"We're at the point in soci­ety today where many of the most crucial problems can be directly or indirectly related to alcohol," said Vince Willis, vice-president of the Notre Dame chapter of BACCHUS, whc spoke at the meeting. 
BACCHUS, a national or­ganization which promotes the responsible use of alcohol, became officially recognized at the University earlier this year. 

...... 
The Observer Wednesday, January 21, 1987-page 5 
Leaders 
continuedfrom page 1 
workshops used at Saint 
Mary's. 
According to Heller, the 
psychology class "Social and 
Problem Drinking'' has met 
with success in the last two 
years, with a large waiting 
list each semester. The class 
is purposely limited to about 
20 students, however, for 
more personalized instruc­
tion. 
The College also sponsors 
alcohol awareness programs, 
such as the four-day program 
held last November. 
"Each of the information 
sessions were packed during 
that week," Heller said., "So 
we know people are attending 
the programs." 
"We try to provide alcohol 
education and social alterna­
tives to drinking off-campus. 
But then it comes down to an 
individual response," Heller 
said. "We do what we can." 
Heller said she and the class 
presidents plan to write a let­
ter to Saint Mary's students 
encouraging them to partici­
pate in more non-alcoholic al­
ternatives. 
One such alternative, Willis 
said, is Theodore's, which in 
its first few months has at­
tracted almost 1,000 students 
each weekend night. 
"We've got to commend the administration on that. They stepped in on a big problem and did something about it,'' he said, referring to the need for an undergraduate altern­ative to hall parties at the on­set of the alcohol policy. 
"The alcohol policy is some-
Open to all men and women 

ATTENTION JUNIORS: 
Interviews will be held for those men interested in joining the K of C after Fr. Malloy's talk, from 
8 to 9 p.m., and also on Thursday, January 22nd from 7 to 9 p.m. 





·-,,, ••

TODAY 
··~ 


~@woLQIDo ~IT@l Wll®®IT 
~®Lfltllill:ID@ 

The Picture Man will be there to show proofs and exchange for correct color pictures 
~~ 


KAPLAN! 
')TANll Y H KAPt AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD 

DON'T COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 £. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46h37 Phone 219/272-413~ 
RE GlfAT NCLEX•R 
thing we've learned to work with instead of fighting against. I'm not opposed, however, to reexamining the policy together as students and administrators," Willis said. 
Some BACCHUS ideas re­quire the cooperative effort of students and administrators. But others are geared toward students helping students, Willis said. 
Two such efforts are peer counseling groups and pro­grams to work with area high school students. 
"Often attitudes toward al­cohol are developed early on. We can make a difference es­pecially with younger people," he said. 
A program which has been effective with University stu­dents, Willis said, is the Buzz Bus sponsored by the Hall Presidents' Council and sup­ported by both campus stu­dent governments. 

According to HPC Co­chairman Joanie Cahill, the council plans to extend hours for the bus to now include Thursday as well as the weekend nights. 
The bus, whose route in­cludes stops at the Senior­Alumni Club, The Commons, Bridget McGuire's Filling Station and several off­campus locations, offers rides to students who don't want to drive-or walk home after drinking. 
Plagiarize 
continued from page 1 
not be reached for comment. His secretary, however, said she spoke with Tyson, who said he had not heard of the inci­dent. 
Montanaro said for the last two weeks he has spoken to fac­ulty and students about the problem of plagiarism. 
"There is a general concern among faculty members that students are not aware of the proper ways to do research," he said. 
"I've spoken to people close to me, fellow students, also ig­norant as we were of these (research) techniques, and they did not see (the incident) as an infraction," said Mon­tanaro. 
"As a student leader my con­cern is that two second­semester seniors and a junior are still ignorant as to what would constitute plagiarism and footnoting," he said. "Many students are equally or worse knowledgeable of the subject." 
K]UGHTSofCOLUMBUS 
'BACK TO SCHOOL" OPEN HOUSE 
7:30 p.m. Tonight Knights of Columbus Hall 
featuring 

Father Edward "Monk" Malloy 

ff:r:~:'¥"J~ 
f.l ~~----,
-?.11 h 
~""-'=-'--:.~.R'V!,,_:.g) 
I 

$~~ ~· 

The council agreed to sup­port the BACCHUS-sponsored alcohol awareness mini­week, "Friends Keep Friends Alive," which begins Monday. At last night's meeting, the Student Senate also agreed to support the program. 
"Although the administra­tion has been very helpful in the efforts to increase alcohol awareness on campus, we can't look to the administra­tion to solve the problem," Willis said. "It has to start here with us." 
Members of the newly­formed committee headed by Stanford Hall President Jim Wimbiscus said they probably will draft a letter stating the HPC's position on responsible drinking. 
"Students have got to start realizing that getting drunk is not as cool as everyone thinks,'' said Bob Daley, Fis­her Hall president. 
Sorin Hall President Jim Fallon said the council should examine the effects of the 
three-year-old University al­cohol policy, which he said is turning Notre Dame into a "commuter campus on weekends.'' 
"Before the alcohol policy, I don't remember any of these things happening," Fallon, a senior, said, referring to last semester's three alcohol­related accidents. 
"It seems to me the Univer­sity could work to promote re­sponsible on-campus drinking rather than driving everyone off," he said. 
In other business, the coun­cil is drawing up a proposal to aid in the relocation of stu­dents from Howard, Carroll and Holy Cross halls. The presidents from these three dorms said they plan to meet later in the week, before Friday's deadline for Howard residents to indicate dorm preferences for next year. 
The council voted to draft a letter to the administration voicing recommendations on the long-term plan to house a more balanced ratio of men and women at the University. 
Council members also ap­proved financial support for the Late Nite Olympics, spon­sored by Non-Varsity Ath­letics, and for the Women's Care Center Phone-a-than. The olympics are scheduled for February 13. 
Cahill said the United Way Aerobathon of last semester raised almost $600. 

Neil Simon's auto­

Friday, Jan. 23 
biographical

$12. ()() ticket/transportaion included from main circle triology. the story 
at 7:20pm to Morris Civic Auditorium ofa naive ninetNn year old's
Sign-ups in Treasury Office in Student Government, 
exPmmces at boot

2nd floor LaFortune between 12:30-4:30pm 
Cll1llfJ in Biloxi 

Deadline: Wed., Jan. 21 Mississippi. 




"ie~~_O_i_nt __~---------w~-nes-day,-Janu-acy2-l,loo-7-p-age6 
P.O.BoxQ 

Wednesday lunch fasts help world's hungry 
Dear Editor: 

When I got back from break there was a hand painted card addressed to the World Hunger Coalition in the mail­box with a simple message: "Many blessings for the new year." What this symbolized, though, ran much deeper than these words. The card was from a child halfway around the world. She 
'had been given food and education by Caritas Bangladesh, one of the groups the Wednesday Lunch Fast supports. 
The blessings this girl was giving would be incomprehensible to Western Hemisphere Catholics, but there was

! 
another message in the card. It was her 

.~ life, her education, and her sacrifice. 
·I It showed the universality of kindness that runs deeper than cultural differ­
.~ 
ences and distance. ·f This young girl, along with hundreds 
I 
of others throughout the world, was { helped by the sacrifice and generosity .(, of those people in the Wednesday Lunch 
Fast. While this fast may appear to be

~ 
a meaningless effort towards some un­

.( 
foreseeable end, it does make a sub­

.( 
I 
stantial difference in the lives of many

., 
people.

' { 
This past semester 600 fasters raised ~ $5,386 which will be distributed I throughout the world. Our organization 
is presently re-evaluating where the ac­tual money will be donated. In the past, the money went primarily to India. Due to the Green Revolution in that country and the growing needs in parts of Africa and Latin America, our giving patterns are gradually answering those needs. 
Our thanks to all those who fasted this past semester. Please continue your generous and necessary support. 
Mark Drajem President World Hunger Coalition 
Peace must be sought 
in Iranian war region 
Dear Editor: 
Anyone who has read the article writ­ten by Brian Murray on Reagan's genius in foreign policy-making, and who has some knowledge on what is going on in the Middle East will find that many of the statements made have no ground and are misleading. 
Doonesbury 

First, he states that "if Iraq wins, Russia will have an excuse to invade Iran to secure its borders." Murray has no explanation whatsoever as to why this is so. In any case Iraq has no in­tention of winning the war, that is, of invading Iran. In fact, Iraq has again and again offered to make peace with Iran. On the other hand, I do not see how Iraq, which is smaller in size and largely outnumbered in population by the Iranians, can invade and control Iran. 
Secondly, Murray specifically states that "an Iranian loss could only des­tabilize the Mideast." On the contrary, if Iran wins the war against Iraq, it will destabilize the Persian Gulf states by encouraging the Moslem fanatics, who are growing in number, to control these states. A good example of the on-going activities of these groups is the coup d'etat that failed in Bahrain a few years ago and the attempt on the life of Emir of Kuwait. 
As I see it, it would be in the interest of America to find a way to end the war between Iran and Iraq and to bring peace to the area. This certainly would not materialize by selling weapons to Iran. As a matter of fact, selling weap­ons would help Iran to continue its at­tempt to invade Iraq and at the same time encourage it to carry out more acts of terrorism. Only peace will se­cure the flow of oil to the world and end the suffering and bloodshed of the peoples of Iraq and Iran. 
I suggest that those who attempt to 
analyze such a complicated subject 
have a better perspective of what is 
going on in that part of the world and 
a humanitarian drive for promoting 
peace rather than war. 
John Andrea Sorin Hall 
Write to P.O.BoxQ Viewpoint Department Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
I WAS CRYING 8CCAUSEALL.. THe 
OTHER. 011~ II.I3NTHOMt ANO YOU {jjt/?& LATE A6AIN, etJTMfi?.~. 
HOIAJ 010 OAY 
, ~it}!J Gl'(AY ... 

tv!CKCR 6AVE ME Of?E{)SANPU:T
j IVV/'1 r, nJNEY? ME WATOI CAR:TOONS ANOI CAU£[) HrR ~MOMM~111MISTAKe. 
c \_ 
1-2f 

Student responsibility should replace policy 
The holidays have come and gone and a new year is upon us. For many it is a welcome opportunity to put the tri­umphs and hardships of the fall behind and begin anew. But in our eagerness to move on, there is one lesson which, more than any other, we should not ef­face from our memories. That is the frailty of human life. 
Sean Garrett 
guest column 
Prior to the conclusion of the fall se­mester, drunk driving by Notre Dame students resulted in the deaths of a South Bend man and a Notre Dame junior. It would be an irreconcilable waste of life if we were not to learn from the error of our classmates, so again I bring this problem to your at­tention. 
Whenever there is a death, there are many questions. Concerning the recent deaths associated with the Notre Dame family attributed to drunken driving, the most objective and commonly asked question is how do we, and soci­ety in general, tackle the problem of drunk driving. While it is wonderful the way the Notre Dame community rallies behind a cause generously offering a hand or advice, in this case, I fear we are missing the rn.ark. The solution of­fered will merely mask our problem, failing to destroy its root. That is, we, as members of society, are failing to take responsibility for our actions. 
As printed in the Observer, it is the feeling of many students that the exis­tence of the alcohol policy is the cause of drunk driving. Although I questi9n the motives behind the policy, that is of little relevance here. Drunk driving is a problem for all of society, not for just those of us at Notre Dame. To think that such a problem is restricted to those of us subject to the alcohol policy is naive to the point of being frighten­ing. In turn, the solution to the problem of drunk driving should satisfy the needs of all of society. Sooner than we realize, we will be a part of the world which need not comply with du Lac. The removal of the alcohol policy, then, is not the solution to our problem. Policy or not, alcohol consumption will always take place on campus. The so­lution to the problem of drunk driving 
Garry Trudeau 

will be found only when we stop looking for excuses and hold ourselves account­able for our own actions. 
Policing student parking lots amilor monitoring the gates at both campus entrances in an effort to discourage drunk driving or prevent drunk drivers from continuing on does not address the problem correctly. At that point one has already made the decision to drive while under the influence. Even if one is kept from reaching the roads, little will prevent him from trying again at a later date. No lesson has been learned. The driver has merely failed 
to beat the system. The effort to curt drunk driving must be made before one reaches for his keys. 
An increased presence of the clergy also fails as a solution to our problem. Responsible behavior resulting solely from the everpresent eyes of Big Bro­ther benefits no one. Students should be encouraged to make responsible, ed­ucated decisions as part of a conscious learning experience, not out of fear of reprimand. Those of us who are stu­dents will soon be a more influential part of society and no longer hiding in the shadow of the dome. No longer will a lengthy document inform us of how and when we may consume alcohol. No longer will a hall staff be watching our every move and hounding us about our drinking habits. No longer will we find a gate at every street corner where we must prove our sobriety before passing through. Who then will monitor our every move? 
This is the issue at hand. It is one of personal accountability. It is the only true answer to the question of drunk driving. Whether one is under the in­fluence of alcohol or not, one is respon­sible for his own actions. If we do not hold ourselves accountable, if we do not choose to remain sober behind the wheel, we will continue to suffer the losses of loved ones. 
As we enter the new year I ask you to give serious thought to the value of human life. As the future of society, I urge you to set an example for others. The decision to not drink and drive must be made before the drinking begins. I challenge you to take respon­sibility for your actions. Your life depends on it ! 
Sean Garrett is a junior engineering major. 
Quote of the day 
"Ask yourself whether you are happy, and you cease to be so." 
John Stuart Mill 
(1806-1873) 
'j4utobiography" 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-SJ03 News Editor .................................. : ........... Tripp Baltz Production Manager .............................Chris Bowler Viewpoint Editor .........................Christopher Murphy Photography Editor .............................James Carroll The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Advertising Design Manager... Mary Carol Creadon 
:of Notre D~~e d~ Lac a~d S~int Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poncies Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culliganof the a~m1mstra~1on of e1~he~ Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ...........................Margie Kersten OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone as possible.. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the ooinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski 
Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Commentanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column 
Controller ........................................ Alex VonderHaar sp~~e is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt 
op1n1ons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Founded November 3,1986 





Accent 
-
A Corps of hope 
JERRY POHLEN features writer 
For most Notre Dame stu­
dents, Christmas marked the 
completion of their first semes­
ter and the end of finals. To me 
It represented the six month 
mark of my two year commit­
ment as a Peace Corps volunteer 
in Benin. Looking now at the 
changes that have occurred, it 
seems like I must have been here 
longer. 
Less than a year has gone by since I first learned that I had been chosen to go to Benin. With one hand on the telephone receiver I told my placement director my excitement over the assignment and with the other I thumbed through an atlas to de­termine where this place was. Literature on Benin (formerly Dahomey) was scarce, and indi­viduals who had actually visited there were even scarce, so it was hard to get an accurate picture 
·or how I would be living for the next two years. 
I arrived in early July with 11 other trainees for a project to promote fuel efficient, wood bur­ning cook stoves. For the first three months, we were to spend eight hours a day, six days a week learning the skills neces­sary to function somewhat nor­mally In our new jobs and cul­ture. While the majority of this was in French language training, other important topics were cov­ered as well: how to ride, main­tain, and repair a Yamaha moto­cross bike, cultural do's and don'ts, how to kill, clean, and cook a chicken, the proper way to prepare a malaria slide, and of course, how to build a variety of stoves. During training we were also given one week to live with an active volunteercf>n site, and four weeks of living with a local family while commuting to the training site for classes. 
By the time we were sworn in, we were one trainee lighter. To­gether we had chosen our own sites from a list of potential loca­tions given to us by the govern­ment. On the average there would be two volunteers to each of Benin's six provinces. We were issued medical kits, motor­cycles, and mosquito nets, taken out to our villages to be formally introduced, and left there. 
Peace Corps has neither the time, resources, nor desire to ease anyone into their two years of service, but the volunteer is hardly on his own. I was only half finished sweeping out my new home when 20 local children gathered to Inspect the work. By the time I was done, 15 more were called in for a seond optmon. The people were friendly and patient, and ex­tremely forgiving of a beginner's French. In two weeks something of a routine began to emerge. 
Shortly thereafter many of the new volunteers underwent what could loosely be labeled as "cul­ture shock." More accurately, it was the emergence of cultural evaluation, for there are ele­ments of every culture that one finds desirable and not. When you begin your service you are often too fascinated with the new experience to make any type of judgement. For me this change occured at 6:30 on a Sunday morning when my neighbor's son was beating on my front door to ask If I had any odd jobs for him. I did not appreciate It any more than I would have in the states. It Is an important point when one can finally rec­ognize the advantages and dis­advantages of any cultural aspect and then, assuming the good outweighs the bad, one will work out well. 
It was not nearly as big of a hurdle as I had been led to believe. Many people find It more difficult to mentally recover from their first spill on their motor­cycle than their first plate of fish head stew. 
Most of the difficulties one ex­
periences are best overcome 
with a sense of humor and an 
incredible amount of flexibility. 
There is certainly no way to ob­
tain a type of security that comes 
from having a well-defined, 
predictablejob here in the Peace 
Corps. One must foster a faith 
that somehow things will work 
out, and they do by avenues that 
you would least expect. 
This Is far and away Peace 
Corps' greatest asset: its abilty 
to provide the volunteer with an 
endless supply of strange, un­
predictable, and fascinating ex­
periences. Additionally, I do not 
believe there are many jobs for 
the recent college graduate in 
which one can be so In control 
of one's own agenda. You can 
set your own goals and respon­
sibilities far better than at any 
entry-level position with a 
stateside firm. 
But there are sacrifices one must make to join Peace Corps. One must be willing to part with most of the American creature comforts. You must learn to deal with frustration and occasional boredom as things move much slower than most volunteers would like. And one must be able to put all home front personal relationships in their proper prospective; there Is not a iot that can be done to ease the discom­fort of two people who. find It dif­ficult to be thousands of miles apart. You are in this experience with both feet whether you like It or not. 
The opportunity to experience a different culture from the ground level cannot be matched. For me I can see my views on Third World development chang­ing as 1 experience not only dif­ferent ways in which people live, but entirely new ways In which people think. I doubt I will ever 
look at anything with a com­pletely American perspective again. 
Wednesday, January 21, 1987 -page 7 
People are people (even in France) 
One of my friends from home asked me In a recent letter If my host family was "typical" French. I laughed when I read that and smiled even wider when I read her next line, "What Is 'typical' French anyway?" I have been trying to figure that out since I came here. 
Mary Berger 
C'est Ia Vie 

Before I arrived, "typical" French to me was an old man sporting a beret with a cigarette hanging out of his mouth, riding a bike and carrying a loaf of bread and a bottle of wine. I have come to the conclusion that that Image Is very French. 
There are other "typical" French characteristics. 
Taking a three-hour lunch break for a long leisurely meal with one's family Is one example. Most businesses are closed from noon to approximately .3:00 p.m. Restaurants are In business during these hours but then close until 7:00 p.m. rings In the dinner hour. 
The patlsserles-boulangerles one sees and smells everywhere are also an Important part ofmost French people's days. In addition to picking up a fresh dessert or fresh bread, neighbors run Into each oher and chitchat. 
"Typical" French students sometimes carry a heavy class load, frequent cafes, bars and discos during the week. and return home for the weekends. Very few students live In dor­mitories and little,If any, campus life exists. Students board with families or share apartments and find their excitement In town. 
In spite of the differences from American life cited here, French people and the French way of life are not that different from Americans and our mode of living. The language may be different. the food may be different. and other superficial aspects oflife maybe different butday -to-day living, growing 
and experiencing are the same. 
People go to school and to work. they come home to their families and dirty dishes, they watch television and go to movies, they celebrate the birth of a new baby and they mourn the loss of any life. 
Whether they live on one side of the Atlantic or the other, whether they are Catholic or atheistic, whether they have brown hair or blond, people are people. So let's hope It's not always like Depeche Mode puts il "that we should get along so awfully." 

Tired of the old routine? Join 
The Accent department is accepting applications for: 
• Features Copy Editor e Scene Photo Editor 
(No photography experience necessary) 
For Information contact Mary Jacoby at The Observer (239-5313), 3rd floor Lafortune. 



....
-----------~~ -. --·---. 
·---~--------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, January 21, 1987-page 8 

Sports Briefs 
The SMC varsity basketball team defeated Huntington College (Ind.), 67-66, in overtime last night at the Angela Athletic Facility. Tammy Radke's field goal with only four seconds left provided the winning margin. Radke led the Belles with 24 points, while sister Julie Radke chipped in with 21 points. -The Observer 
The women's track club will have a meeting tonight at 6:30 in the basement of Farley. All members are required to attend. For more information contact Kath­leen (4189) or Nancy (4059). -The Observer 
The ND-SMC sailin~ club will have a meeting tonight at 6: 30 at room 204 0 Shaughnessy. The upcoming elections will be discussed. For more information contact Tony Fink at 1082. -The Observer 
The ND judo club will hold practice tonight from 8 to 10 at room 219 Rockne. Everyone is welcome. Begin­ners should wear loose clothing with sleeves. For more information contact Rob (232-6917) or Sara (3427). -The Observer 
The OC hockey team faces Dillon tomorrow at 
11:30 p.m. at the ACC. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will have a mandatory meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phillips for anyone interested in playing indoor soccer. Elections will also be held. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
. 

The ND varsity women's tennis team is holding interviews for the position of women's tennis manager for the fall of 1987. Training for this paid position will be this spring. Contact Michele Gelfman or Mara Smith at 239-5149 or come by the ACC tennis office near Gate 5 in the afternoon. Deadline is Jan. 30. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team wil have tryouts today. Meet at the main circle at 3 p.m. If you have a car, please bring it. For more information contact Joe (1190) or Jeff (3660). -The Observer 
Inter hall hockey managers may sign up for ice time for the second semester now. Cost is $50 an hour. Teams are limited to one hour a week. For more infor­mation contact Tom Carroll at 239-5247. -The Observer 
The WVFI sports staff encourages anyone interested in joining the staff to contact either Sean Pieri (3450) or Rick Rietbrock (3252). -The Observer 
The ND Martial Arts Institute will have a general meeting Friday at 6 p.m. at room 219 Rockne. A workout will immediately follow. All interested persons are invited to attend the meeting and observe the training session. The NDMAI offers lessons in TaeKwonDo and Jiu-Jhsu. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Boards 
continuedfrom page 12 
Mter the victory, DiStanis­lao was hopeful that the big win would serve as a springboard for upcoming games. 
"When you're 4-10 you take what you can get," said DiS­tanislao. "The team worked well rebounding tonight, and that is what we have to do to win." 

The Irish next take to the court Saturday when they play on the road against St Joseph
(Pa.). 
Last night's Reaulta Notre Dame 85, Cleveland St. 68 Cleveland St. (68) 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Dornbirer  38  1-5  6-8  7  3  8  
Harris  29  10-19  3-3  3  4  23  
Miller  26  1-5  3-4  8  4  5  
Schmid  22  1-7  o-o  2  1  2  
Kipp  40  6-24  9-11  5  3  21  
Powers  26  2-13  1-2  4  4  5  
Euse  7  1-4  0-0  0  1  2  
Mozeleski  12  Q-2  2-2  3  1  2  
200 22-79 24·30  32  21  68  
FG  Pet.  -.278.  FT  Pet.  - .800.  Team  

rebounds -4. Turnovers -11. Assists -7 (Schmid 5). Technicals -none. Notre Dame (85) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Emigholz 12 0-1 0-0 2 3 0 Schwartz 24 2-8 2-2 12 3 6 Bunek 28 10-16 2-3 10 1 22 Gavin 28 5-8 1-2 3 2 11 Toney 27 4-7 3-8 7 1 11 Elliott 16 1-4 4-5 0 1 6 Mahoney 9 3-3 Q-0416 Barron 10 0-2 2-2 1 1 2 Botham 23 7-11 1-2 15 2 15 Morrison 19 3-7 0-0 6 4 6 Garrison 2 0-0 0-00 0 Mauch 2 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 200 35-67 15·24 61 20 85 
FG Pet. -.522. FT Pet. -.625. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -25. Assists -20 (Gavin 8). Technicals -none. 
Halftime-NO 41. Cleveland St 27. Officials -Rich Soria, Tom Buscarini, . A-122. 
The Obaenrer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
male singer needed:We play everything Need 2 GA's for DePaul. Call Kathy 284-PLEASE HELP --1 NEED A RIDE TO Please help mel I need a ride to Bowling from old party tunes to modem top-40. 4380. IU-BLOOMINGTON THIS WEEKEND, Green U. this weekend. Will share ex·
NOTICES FOR RENT 
If Interested, please call Scott at 2289 JAN.23 TO JAN.25. CALL NIKKI, 283-pensea. Please call Mike at2787. Thanxl Wordproceaaing-Typing Need Tickets Duparately to both the 3785. 272-8827 Mishawaka mom needs sitter for 2.5 yr North C.rollna and Duka bukett.ll
Two room utilities paid private entrance Mike S.-M Thanks lor taking the time to
old daughter Wed.am ASAP. 255-7037 garnu. Either student or GA'a. Cell Ski 
one peraon 288-os55'2n-1254 walk .me to the shuttle atop last saturday 
Eric et 272-8123. STEAMBOAT night. ·Meliaaa B. .
WORDPROCESSING w;;;;;d--·=--·~---~---~--~··;;;;;··~i for Spring Braek 2n-s131 WAITRESSES NEEDED AT PRIVATE contact Joe 11110 or Jeff 5eeo lpon­
campus view apartments for one female CLUB, 12-22 HOURS PER WEEK, HELPI I need 4 N. Carolina G.A.a. Call aored by SAB SENIORS I for the spring semester -If Interested MUST BE 21 YEARS OLD. STARTING Pete, £1854. SENIORS I please contact Noreen at Z72 -9361 or AT $3.35 PER HOUR PLUS TIPS. AP­

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU SENIORS I 
Kim at x4440 lor more Information. 

MRS. COKER, 233-7009. PLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT AMERI­NEED 1 N. CAROLINA GA OR STU­BILOXI BLUES 
IrS COMING CAN TURNERS. 53666 NORTH IRON­DENT TIX. WILL PAY$$$. CAU PETE Nell Simon's play on Jan 23 at the IT'S COMING TYPING AVAILABLE WOOD. 2197 Morrts Civic Auditorium. Sign up In IrS COMING
H~~;·h;;;;;·~~~u.:~·;;s·~;;;;:·~~ 

287-4082 the Traeaurer's Offtce, 2nd floor of GET YOUR SCOPING GOGGLES ON
Memorial Hospital. Nice neighbor. For In­LaFortune. Tlx 112 (lncluct. tranapor· FOR...

fo, call 232-4412. 

································································ NEED GA'S AND STUDENT TIX'S FOR 
tatlon). Sponsored by SAB. SENIOR FORMAL 'IT
TWO GIRLS DESPERATE TO GET TO SAVE $$$11 Buy your ctaaa books at MARCH 27 -28
MARQUETIE GAME CALL KYLE AT
································································ GENESIS CONCERT. INDY. 
2036

PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our new loca­Large duplax being used as one houae. KEEP ALERT! MORE INFO TO FOL­
LAFAYETTE. MERRIVIUE. AS FAR AS tion: 808 Howard St., just off of N.D. Ave. Two kitchens, three baths. Completely Want some LATE NIGHT ACTION? LOW
YOU CAN GO. WILL SHARE EX­OPEN 7 days a week 1D-530, ph. 233-· furnished Including washer and dryer. WANTED: 4 G.A.'S FOR MARQUETTE A.C.C. thla Wad. Jan 21
PENSES. CALL PAULA AT 5455.
2342. Bring In this ad and receive $5 off Complete burglar and fire alarm system. GAME JAN 28 CALL TIM 3240 OR 3249. akatlng and hot Chocolata every order of $50 or morel Will accommodate eight. Call 234-9384 THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY 
11:15 -12:15 

aponaored by SAB
after live. FAVORS GRANTED!
HELPII
FOR SALE Mom and Dad are coming! I DESPERATELY need 2 Carolina GA's FOR RENT: 2 BEDROOM HOUSE Will pay BIGS$ Call Keratin 4036 
NEED QUALITY PHOTOS? Photoe

LOST/FOUND I 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 DUKE STU­NEAR CAMPUS. 200$ A MONTH PLUS FOR SALE HEWLETT PACKARD 9125 taken for Campaign poetera, resumes,
DENT TIX·CALL KIM x4440UTILITIES CALL SEAN 287-6546 

DISC DRIVE NEW $1200 HEWLETI school applications, etc. Affordable, Fast, LOST ... GOLD BEAD NECKLACE LAST PACKARD GRAPHIC PRINTER Dis­NEED DUKE GA'S $$$$ CALL STEVE High Quality! Call Chri1 X2075 lor your SEEN IN NO LIBRARY ON DEC. 15TH PLAYS BAR,PIE,ECT CHARTS IN SIX 2180 appointment.
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. Apt. tor rent. '""HELPII GOING TO SEE BILLY JOEL 
IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO LOST COLORS NEW $2000. ALSO WYSE
Sleeps 6. 112 block from beach. Will take IN INDY?? I NEED A RIDE BACK TO 
AND FOUND OR CALL £3763. TERMINAL & SCREEN $250 ALL Meliaaa B.-No problem. Maybe we11 do
beat offer etarting at $750 lor Spring WANTED 5 TIX FOR N. CAROLINA SMC ON 02<l8 OR 09. CAU KIM 284­
BRAND NEW FOR $2250. it again aometime.-Mike S.
GAME. CAU TRICIA SMC 4036. lost ... red book bag with gymnastics gear, Including grips, shoes, etc. Meets start NICE MOUTH GEORGEII ·the three In 2 week&, need desperately. If found Macintosh W'l<eyboard, hairballa-a Break WMk. Call x<4112 or x4095 ASAP. 5535"' 
to the gorgeous smc girl who I saw atcall 1802 or bring to 1110 Grace. macwritepalnt,and mouse -$900. £3268 Theodore's last Fri. night wear·hlng
WANTED PERSONALS
Steve. 

sweats and a gray top, may I see again FALL LONDONERS DINNERS EVERYLOST ... ROOM KEY AND MAIL BOX soon. TUES. 5-7pm So. Dining Hall StartingKEY FOR ROOM 243111 Keychain Ia ATT:SKIERS FOR SALE K2 712 WI
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Part-time mktg. poe. on campus. Poten­1-27; cost 25 cents; queries? Gall151<4
buic NO, wood keychain. Please call Jill TYR.380 BINDINGS EXC. COND. CALL
Project Manager needed tial to make $&hr. Call Cindy at 1-800­
at 373e H you know of their whereabouts I LAURIE SHEA 21<46
FREE vacation plus SSS 592-2121. CAPTAIN KOSHER-someone'a watch­
NEED RIDE TO CLEVE OHIO 1123-1125 1-800-237-2061 ing you...re~ueaa hereI mlaa themlll DEBBIE 2960 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER A UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE TOASTMASTERS
LOST: BROWN AND TAN RUSSIAN FOR SALE-Juki 6100 Daisywheel BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.
Printer--$150. Was $400 new. 234-7362 for the ultimate In sound, music, person­T011stmaatwa will meet TONIGHT at
STYLE HAT. PLEASE CALL 4806. SUMMER JOBS -Large resort on east Francis ality, and fun call... ENTERTAINMENT 7pm In Hay• Healy rm 223. NEW entrance to Glacier National Park, Mon­MEMBERS ARE WELCOME!
LOST: Black wallet at Theodore's Satur­UNLIMITED the professional disc jockey 
tana looking for students intereeted In SAVE S$$11 Buy your cla&S books at 
day night. Please call Terry at x1 137. service. We're NO's best! Aek for Brian 
summer employment for PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca­TO STATE
the following RIDERS OHIO THIS
Thank you. WORD PROCESSOR FOR SALE· 1645. 
positiOns: Waitrona. bartenders. kitchen tion: 808 Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. 
WEEKEND. CALL SARA SMC 5214.

Philips Micom 3003 word processor with 
help, cooks, retail clerks, maida, cas­OPEN 7 days a week, 1Q-530 ph. 233­
letter quality printer, cable, disks and JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS
hiers, cocktail waitrons, desk clerks, of­2342. Bring in this ad and receive $5 off 
software. Uke new conditiOn. Contact JUNIORS JUNIORS MAKE-UP DOG­
LOST: Grey knapsack, with books, FREE EARPIERCING BY: COS­
fice personnel and maintenance. Monthly every order of $50 or morel 
Shirlee Knudsen at 239-5093. BOOK PICTURESIIIII Tuesday, JANU­
notebooks, and envelopes to be mailed METOLOGIST AMY BARANKO WHEN:
salary including room and board. Inter­ARY 20 and Wednesday, JANUARY 21

·from South Dining Hall, 1119. To anyone ELIGIBLE STUDMUFFINS AWAKEIII EVERY FRI & SAT NIGHT WHERE: AT
views will be held on campus in mid­4-Bpm 3rd Floor LaFortunelll JUNIORS

who has found this or to the thief that PARTIES EVERYWHERE PLACE SUB­
February. Write for application to our win­"'FARLEY ON BROADWAY"' POP JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS
took It: please return to the Lost & Found FARLEY WEEK ••• JECT TO CHANGE QUALIFICATIONS:
ter addreaa: St Mary RB, Inc., PO Box JUNIORSanOtlr call Eric at 2n-o984. Especially TICKETS ALCOHOL LEVEL MUST BE .10 OR

1808, Sun Valley, ID 83353. THIS SATURDAY IS LOOMING 
needed are the c:ontents In the maniHa HIGHER BRING YOUR OWN EARRING 
NEARIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
~and in the notebooks. ................................................................ CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Need GAs for N. CaroNna and Duke. Call OK the holidays are over-rlt would be GUARANTEED
YO HEY, need 2 DUKE GA'S please call­1152 appreciated If the tree taken at the Sr.
8111,2008 LOST -HELPI I NEED MY GLASSES FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII Claaa Cocktail Party be returned to the SPARKY, ·PLASTIC LENS, WIRE, AERONAUTI­................................................................ FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR­claaa office Happy 19th Birthday CAL SHAPE, IN HARD PLASTIC CASE MADISON BIG$$$ FOR N CAROLINA TICKS CALL LEY WEEK to LOST ON Vl7. IF FOUND, CALL MIKE RIDERS NEEDED FOR WEEKEND MIKE 1129 FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII ., our "epeehow" friend! 4&40. TRIP. LEAVING 1123. CALL LISA 1822 FARLEY ON BROADWAY'"' POP FAR­GREAT PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY. Love Always, The Prurna NEED 3-<4 N.C. TIXS Call Todd 2551 LEY WEEK Gain EXPERIENCE and EARN MONEY I left 1M Althuf Anderlen dinner at FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII while working on Fortune 500 Compan­Barclay'l (11111) with the wrong London Rldert needed to MNPLS U of M leaving FARLEY ON BROADWAY"' POP FAR­Ies' Marketing Programs on campus! someone please take me INlay from an Fog nncn coat. If you have the urne thursday jan. 29 at 9 am. Return NEED NORTH CAROLINA GA TICKETS LEY WEEK Flexible houri each week. Call 1·800-ofthiall problem, call Mike 11857. whenever. Call Joe NeuviAe 232-9112 CALL LARRY 2131 821-1540. 
................................................................. 
• • ... • , • ..1 ' ..
.,. .. . . . .. ... ., ... . .... . .. . .. , 

January 21. 1987 The Observer · page 9 
nes 

• ·(iV"'~

MISL 
Sports Lists ; :tlib 
EaaWn Dlvlelon 
WALES CONFERENCE 

w L Pet. 08 
Aclem8 DtMion 

Cleveland 14 6 .700 Pet. 08 
w L T OF OA flta.

Dallas 14 7 .667 .5 &.ton .711 
Montreal 23 HI 7 168 154 53
Baltimore 11 8 .579 2.5 Philadelphia .564 5.5 
A Very Short Streak 
Hartford 22 18 6 152 155 50
Minnesota 10 8 .556 3 Washington .500 8 
&.ton 22 19 5 182 1"5 49 
Chago 8 11 .421 5.5 New Yot1< .342 14 
Quebec 18 23 7 159 180 o43
New Yot1< 2 17 .105 11.5 New Jerley .263 17 
Buffalo 13 27 6 152 182 32 
Weatem Dtvlalon 
Petrtck Dlvlalon 

Tacoma 15 4 .789 Detroit 25 11 .694 
failed to make the 
Philadelphia 31 12 3 194 124 65
San Diego 10 9 .526 5 Atlanta 25 12 .678 .5 
N.Y. illandenl 23 20 4 168 158 50
Wichita 9 10 .474 6 Milwaukee 24 17 .585 3.5 
playoffs the
Kansas City 9 11 .450 6.5 Chicago 20 17 .541 5.5 
N.Y. Rangers 18 20 8 185 183 44
Los Angeles 6 11 .353 8 Indiana 20 18 .526 6 
Pittlburgh 17 20 8 161 155 42 
nextyear:
St. Louis 7 13 .350 8.5 Cleveland 15 24 .385 11.5 
New Jersey 18 24 5 169 21 .. 41 
LHt Nlgtlt'a Aeaulta Weetlrn ~tee 
CAIIPBEU. CONFERENCE 

St. Louis at Cleveland llldWMt Dlvlllon 
Smythe Dvlelon 

Wichita at Los Angeles w ,L .. Pet. 08 L T OF OA Pta Tonlght'aO...... Dallal 24 .632 w 
Edmonton 30 14 2 215 151 62
Kansas City at Chicago UWI 21 18 .588 2.5 
Winnipeg 28 17 4 165 158 58
Houlton 18 18 .500 5 
c.lgaly 28 20 1 tee 110 53
Denver 17 23 .-'25 8 
I 1967 Kansas City Chiefs 
L.a. Angelee 20 21 8 1e3 183 ...
Basketball Sllctamenlo 11 26 .287 12.5 
V..-.couwr 14 28 5 157 188 33
San Antonio 11 28 .282 13.5 
II 1968 Green Bay Packers
NDrrll Dlwlelon
.-.ollie Dlvlllon 

Mlrl......ota 21 21 5 162 174 47 
Ill 1969 Baltimore Colts 
Eat L.A. Lllk8q 30 8 .718 
Detroit 18 20 8 140 158 44
PortiMd 24 17 .585 7.5
Cleveland St. 52, Marlst 49 Toronto 18 22 5 158 182 41 
IV 1970 Kansas City Chiefs 
Golden Stale 23 17 .575 a 
Chago 17 23 8 184 181 40
Boston College 79, Seton Ha1175 Sedle 20 17 .541 u 
Sl.loula 18 20 8 154 174 40 
XIV 1980 Pittsburgh Stealers
Cent. Connecticut 81, E. Carolina 64 PloJoenlx 18 23 .410 14.5 
L.A. Cllppa 5 34 .128 25.5
Dartmouth 70, Vermont 64 LMt Nlght'a Raaulta 
XV 1981 Oakland Raiders
Boaton 5, Quebec 3
Fordham 79, Columbia 11 LMtNight'a....,... 
Wahinglon 8, New JerNy 3
George Washington 85, Duquesne 65 Chiclgo 103, Milwaukee 80 
XVI 1982 San Fransisco 49ers
Calglry 3, N.Y. lllendara 1
Golden Stale at 88cramento, late
Hartford 80, Maine 68 Minn•ota 5, Butllllo 0
Tonlght'a 0.... 

Source: NFL and Sporta Features Syndicate Obserwr Graphic: Geoffrey Sauer
Holy Cross 72, lona 66 Tonlght'a o.n.
Indiana at Boalon MonlrNI at Har1fofd
Penn 80, Lafayette 64 Phoenix at New Jnay 
N.Y. illandm at Dalrolt
LaSalle 65, St. Peter's 56 Seattle at Phlladlllphla 81. loula at TOIOniO
L.A. Lilian at Alllnta 
Edmonton at Winnipeg
Milwaukee at Claveilnd lnterhall Basketball, Sports Calendar
Philadelphia at Chago
New Yot1< at Dalu 
N.Y. Rangeta at VlnCOUYer 
Houlton at San Antonio 
Pltllburgh at l..ol Angelea
Golden Stale at Denver 
South Dalroil at Utah Men's Results Home games in CAPS ECAC
Clemson 67, Georgia Tech 66 Ala.-Birmingham 79, Va. Common­AP Top 20 lnterhall Hockey · Cavanaugh B 40, Keenan C 37 Today
Cavanaugh B 44, Flanner B2 28
wealth 70 No sports scheduled
lnkatball Louisville 84, Virginia Tech 62 The Top Twenty colege basketball teams in The lluaDivtalon 
N.C. Chartotte 85, Coastal Carolina 61 Auociated Press poll, with first·place votes in paren­L OF Pta. Big Sky
W T OA r Thursday
theses, this season's recorda and total points. PointS C&wnaugMioward 2 0 0 6 2 4 Keenan A1 56, Zahm A 51
Providence 92, Miami, Fla. 88 
baaed on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 011 CAmpus 0 10 0 2 No sports scheduled
1 0 Stanford A 57, Cavanaugh A 43 
are itllllcized. Grace 10 0 8 3 2 
St. Ed's A 69, Off-Campus A 55
Dllon 10 0 8 0 2 
1. Iowa (34) 16-0 1.263 Catrolt<Mnln 1 2 0 4 17 2 St. Ed's A 57, Grace A1 32 Frldlly 
2. North carotlna (28) 15-1 1.254 St. Ed'.tto!V 0 2 0 3 7 0 Flanner A1 51, St. Ed's A 50 I Hockey at Kent State Mldweet 3. lndilllla 1··1 1,133 Croat 
Indoor track vs. MICHIGAN STATE 
Iowa St. 91, Nebraska 75 4. Nevada-las Vegas (3)15·1 1,068 F1nw 0 2 0 3 120· 
5. Purdue 1<l-1 1,063 Gold Dtvlelon ACC Women's tennis at Minnesota Doubles Kansas 71, Missouri 70 
6. 
DePaul 14..0 97• OC-A 54, Alumni Al 53 Invitational 

7. 
Syracuse 15-1 n•. 2 0 15 2


Morriaey 0 Dillon A 88, Flanner A2 30 Men's swimming at Kenyon Invitational 
8. Temple 16·2 696 Flahat' 2 0 0 13 3 
Women's swimming at Kenyon Invita­
9. 
Illinois 13·3 680 Alumni 1 0 1 3 1 3 

10. 
Clemson 16..0 670 Pangborn 0 0 1 0 0 1 tional 

11. 
Oklahoma 12·3 655 lahm 0 1 0 1 5 0 SMC basketball at SMC ROUNDBALL


Southwest 12. Duke 13·2 588 Stanford 0 2 0 4 7 0 Big Ten 
CLASSIC
13. Alabama 13·2 567 Sorin 0 2 0 1 18 0 Holy Cross A 75, Dillon A-Red 42 
SMC swimming at Indianapolis Invita­
Oral Roberts 59, Stephen F. Austin 54 14. St. John's 12-2 51• Sorin A 32, Fisher 31 
15. Georgetown 12·2 <tQ4 Gold Dlvl8lon lllaaulta tional
Pan American 74, Lamar 69 Morrluey 9, Sorln 1 Howard 47, Alumni A2 22
16. Pittsburgh 13-3 296 Okla. City 104, Cameron 75 17. Auburn 1D-3 295 Fiaher 4, Stanford 3 Dillon A-Red 54, Fisher 48 
18. Navy 11·3 189 Alumni 0, Pangborn 0 Saturday 19. Texas Chris1ian 13·3 154 
Flaher 9, Sorin 0 
SEC Men's basketball at UCLA
Alumni 3, Stanford 1 Morrlaaey 5, Z.hm 1 Off Campus 1 42, Morrissey 17 Hockey at Kent State Others receiving votes: Florida 79, K&rlsas 59, New 
20. North Carolina St. 11-4 113 
Women's basketball at St. Joseph's
Orleans 24, Kansas State 21, UCLA 18, Seton Hall 

Blue Dlvlalon ReaultaF•r Wnt 17, Houston 15, Cleveland State 10, Virginia 9, St. cavanaugh+loward 3, Flenner o (Pa.) Gonzaga 79, E. Washington 69 louis 7, Memphis State 6. Michigan 6. Texas-EI CarroiH<eenan 4, St. Ed'~ Croaa 1 Wrestling vs. NEBRASKA Paso 6. West Virginia 6. Georgia Tech 5, Providence cavanaugn+toward 3, St. Ed'e+toly Cross 2 Major Independents
Loyola, Calif. 100, Chapman 95 Men's fencing at Wisconsin 
5, Vanderbilt 4, Western Kentucky 4. Brigham Young on Campus 10, CarroiH<eenan 0 Dillon B2 41, Flanner 3B 33 
Women's fencing atWisconsin
Pepperdlne 75, Chicago St. 72 2, Ohio State 2. Tulsa 2. Arizona 1, Kentucky 1, Grace 9, Flenner 3 
Dillon B2 55, OC-lB 39
Portland 71, Pacific Lutheran 51 Middle Tennessee 1, New Mexico 1, Utah 1. Dillon 8, CarroiH<eenan 0 Men's tennis at Northwestern Women's tennis at Minnesota Doubles
/ 
PAC-10 

InvitationalIrish Men's Basketball Keenan B 34, Morrissey B-Gold 23 Men's swimming at Kenyon Invitational 
Dillon B3 45, Morrissey B-Gold 44 
Women's swimming at Kenyon lnvlta·
Through Sunday 

Stanford B1 58, Keenan B 48
PLAYER G-S MIN-AVO FG-FOA PCT FT-FTA PCT REB AVO PF A BK ST TP AVO tional Scott Hicks 13-13 462-35.5 67-145 .462 23-38 .605 59 4.5 34 30 4 16 157 12.1 SMC oasketball at SMC ROUNDBALL 
David Rivers 13-12 466-37.4 64(8}-145 .441 61-73 .836 56 4.3 28 79 2 25 191 14.7 CLASSIC Mark Stevenson 13-12 350-26.9 47(1}-98 .480 25-34 .735 55 4.2 13 14 0 9 120 9.2 SMC swimming at Indianapolis Invita­Donald Royal 9-9 313-34.7 33-60 .550 57-71 .803 59 6.6 29 11 3 7 123 13.7 
tional
Sean Conner 13-4 291-22.4 46(4)-84 .548 12·18 .667 30 2.3 28 12 1 5 108 8.3 
Women's Results 

Jamere Jackson 12-o 139-11.6 12(4)-35 .343 8-11 .727 12 1.0 17 7 0 4 36 3.0 
Scott Paddock 13-3 186-14.3 3.9 22 3 3 1 30 2.3 Lyons 85, Breen-Phillips B 12 Sunday
14-26 .538 2·9 .222 50 Gary Voce 13-13 263-20.2 11-24 .448 9-13 .692 58 4.5 26 4 4 6 31 2.4 Pasquerilla East over Lewis B, for­No sports scheduled Tony Jackson 11-o 38-3.3 3-4 .750 o-o .000 4 0.4 8 0 1 0 6 0.5 feit Joe Fredrick 11-o 37-3.4 6-11 .545 o-o .000 1 0.1 7 1 0 1 12 1.1 Lewis A 50, Badin 14 
Monday

Michael Smith 10.0 41-4.1 1-5 .200 3-5 .600 7 0.7 2 2 0 1 5 0.5 Lyons 49, Badin 21 Chris Nanni 2-o 2-1.0 o-o .000 1-2 .500 0 0.0 0 0 0 0 1 0.5 No sports scheduled
Pasquerilla East 35, Lewis A 30
Steve Nicgorski 3-0 3-1.0 Q-1 .000 o-o .000 0 0.0 1 0 0 0 0 0.0 
Farley A 49, Breen-Phillips A 48
Team 42 3.2 Tuesday 
NOTRE DAME 13-13 2125-202 303(17)-643 .471 187-270 .730 433 33.3 215 183 17 77 820 83.1 Note: scores were not available on Men's basketball vs. DAYTON SMC basketball at Goshen
OPPONENTS 13-13 2125-202 213(29)-627 .487 150-218 .884 340 21.2 241 134 29 88 785 51.8 all games. 
... ..-.... .,.....___..... ----·'l..·•-a.·····.__.,. ......-......-•.:'l....._ ___.,____~,_.........,.~... -'.~•• 
•• • ••• BRUNO • • Saving
• • • • •• ~\ ~· 
• • *(\~ Follow 23 8<Moth to: ~ babies is• • 2610 PnlrteAn. • • SouthlleBd our goal! 
• • 288-3320
• • ­
• • "·''':~
• • Free Delivery to NO and SMC campuses : Present your Notre Dame or : Spm to 10pm monday through Saturday ~~ 

: Saint Mary's I.D. to our cashier : 
Special this month: 

: and receive a lOo/o discount. : 
14 inch Pizza with 1 item $6~00i US 33 North store only. : 18 inch Pizza with 1 item $12.00 i ............. ~lf~~-~V~.~~1•..•.......••i 
....----------~:------------~~--~-------------------~--------------------... 
The Observer Wednesday, January 21, 1987-page 10 
Repeat 
continued from page 12 
Everybody has a realistic shot with Rozelle's ideal schedule. Someday, Rozelle will see his version of utopia: all NFL teams finishing at 8-8. He sure has done a great job in elimin­ating dynasties, hasn't he? 
Humbug. 
It's true that dynasties are a thing of the past, but it is not because of Rozelle. It is the na­ture of today's sports. There are a number of reasons for this inability to repeat. Some are easy to understand. Injur­ies and bad breaks are often at fault. Some others are more disturbing, and increasingly prominent, like drug problems, loss of motivation and salary bickering. 
It is evident that with the makeup of today's sports, a team merely has to capture the ever-elusive spark that remarkably brings everything together for that team and carries it to the top of its sport in a given year. The catch is that once a team wins a cham­pionship, it is not allowed to have this magical spark the fol­lowing year. That way no teams can hog this spark for too long, like the Boston Celtics and New York Yankees have been known to do in years past, and ruin the fun for the rest of the teams. 
Coaching genius cannot over­come this system. Neither can an abundance of talent. Not even a great draft, or a cute quarterback can do it. It is in­escapable. 
This formula, not Rozelle, kept the Bears, who were nearing invincible status in the minds of most, from participat­ing in this year's Super Bowl. 
Rozelle's "equalizing" schedule somehow gave the Bears the easiest schedule in the league. Even though the Bears played barely above ade­quate for most of the year, the unending lineup of patsies they were presented kept their record from slipping too much. But the spark had left them, and no matter how much they tried to talk and intimidate to cover it up, they became just another team. What a shame. 
That is what lies ahead for this year's winner also. Don't tell me the Giants are going to be a dynasty. They are just a nicer version of last year's Bears. Not quite as interesting, but much easier to tolerate. Don't tell me Denver, with John Elway, is the team of the fu­ture. We've gone through too many teams that never turn po­tential into production. 
Next year, Denver's try for another dramatic drive to pull out a miraculous playoff vic­tory will hit a snag. Next year, the Giants will not get great games out of Phil Simms at crucial times, and they will fall a notch or two. It may be not be much to look forward to, but these teams will face the same fate as the champs of the recent past. Duane Thomas' quote could be changed for the teams of the '80s to say "If these teams are so great, why are there different teams every year?" 
Sorry Giants and Broncos, no 

matter how good you look this 
Sunday, don't expect to return 
to the big one. Endorse those 
products, write those books 
about your amazing life and 
renegotiate those contracts. 
Get all your fun in this summer 
because there is going to be a 
new king next year. Just ask 
the Bears. 
Geneser, the Irish will be facing their toughest competi­

Irish 
tion in the next few weeks.
continued/rom page12 
Notre Dame, at 1-4 not includ­Nebraska on Saturday is still ing last night's exhibition meet, uncertain. Both Durso's will host Nebraska on Saturday shoulder and Geneser's knee night and go to Purdue next are being checked on a day-to­Wednesday before hosting the day basis. National Catholic Invitational 
With or without Durso and on Feb. 1. 



::1: 
1­


Freshman center 
Paddock is just what Irish needed 
By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer  dock. "That means I have to do the little things to be effec­tive. I have to make contact,  of a group collectively known as the Blue team. Paddock says that the familiarity of the  
There used to  be  an  after­ box out and go up and get the  players  in  that  group  helps  
shave commercial in which a  ball."  them in their performance.  
man would get a slap in his face  But Paddock has had a hel­ "We practice together all the  
and  say,  "Thanks,  I needed  ping hand in making these ad­ time so we really feel comfort­ 
that."  justments. He and the other big  able  playing  together,"  he  
For Notre Dame freshman  men  have  the  benefit  of  says. "It gives a lot of us more  
center Scott Paddock, Western  working with assistant coach  of an opportunity to get playing  
Kentucky acted as the slap, and  John Shumate. Paddock says  time. We've had our positives  
he  believes  he  certainly did  he has enjoyed that experience.  and our negatives, but as long  
need that.  "It's incredible,"  says  the  as Coach Phelps uses the Blue  
"The  Western  Kentucky  Plantation, Fla., native. "He's  team  we have to show we're  
game introduced  me  to what  been through it all, on and off  ready to produce."  
college  basketball  would  be  the court. He knows the physi­ With the upcoming schedule  
like," he says.  "I think I've  cal and the mental aspect of  promising  to  be  among  the  
done pretty well since then." Few could argue. Beginning  the game and he's been suc­cessful at the college and pro  toughest stretches all season, Paddock sees the importance  
with  his  two-point,  three­ levels.  of a few wins against the tough  
rebound  performance  in  the  "We  have  a  great  coach­ teams  in  getting  an  NCAA  
season opener, the 6-9 Paddock  player relationship. He is so in­ tournament berth, and his im­ 
has averaged 2.5 points and 4.1  tense on  the court, but he is  portance  as  a  key  to  Notre  
rebounds in 15.3 minutes of playing time. But his real prog­ very laid-back off it so that we can laugh and have a good  Dame's chances to get that bid. "It will be a challenge to  
ress has come on the defensive  time.  make the NCAA Tournament,  
end.  "It's really great to see how  but  it  is something  to  work  
"When  I  came  here,  the  the things we work on in prac­ for," Paddock says. "The in­ 
coaches told me to concentrate  tice come into play during the  dependents  are  strong  this  
on rebounding and defense,'' he says. "I think I've improved in those areas, but I need to work on my offensive skills to beef­fective at this level." At the high school level, Pad­ games," Paddock continues. "It gives you a good feeling." Never did things come to­gether better for the big red­headed player than against In­diana. Paddock scored 10  year, and only a few bids go out to independents so we have . our work cut out for us. "I think it's important for me to contribute to this team. If we have some success, I would like  
dock was plenty effective. As a senior, he averaged 17.5 points  points and seven rebounds in Notre Dame's near-miss at an  to feel a part of that success. It's easier at home, but DePaul  
and 14.4 rebounds per game, and participated in the Dapper Dan all-star game in Pit­tsburgh. But as always, the move to college basketball re­ upset. "In that game, I came off the bench and everything just clicked," he says. "I felt really comfortable out there and had  was a real experience and the seniors have told me about Pauley Pavilion. I'm looking ahead with anticipation, not any nervousness."  
quired some adjustments.  a lot of fun."  What a difference a cold slap  
"At this level,  everyone is  In  recent  weeks,  Paddock  in the face early in  a  season  
just as big as I am," says Pad- has come off the bench as part  can make.  

Now has helium balloons 
Your choice of a flower FREE delivery with a balloon. this week only. 
Located in the basement of LaFortune. 

++++++++++++++++++++++ 
+ + + 1987 AN TOSTAL+ : EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE: +Applications for all positions (except Chairman)+
+ are available this week at the ++ Student Activities Board Office, + 
+ 
2nd Floor LaFortune.+ 

+ 
Completed applications are due++

+ 
Friday, January, 23rdby 5:00 p.m. 



+· + 
+++++++++++++++++~~++ 

++++++++++++++++++++++ 

Winter is Here! Stop by The Club to keep warm! 
Wed.: Miller Night Lite and Genuine Draft 
.80¢ 
Thurs.: T-Day Tangueray and Tonic 
Fri.: Band: Vatican Ill 



~t(Jt~ttll~------------------------------------------------------W·oo--ne.s.d.ay•,•J•an•u•a•cy•2•1•'•1~.7.-.p.a•g•e..
11 Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Vf~lt., TH~£'511 PENGU!N ON 7IE ~­5GZ 1£'5 CIIUIN& F~ INSI/l€ 111/Jittr ~"' 
/ 
Beer Nuts 
.. 5££ 1!1~'511 /111/~N IN H/5 f/N~R Jemi'ING fJf IINC1 ~ ON 11£ t.IC? __._.......... 1H~IIT'eNING H/5 lift. 
/ 


Mark Williams 



.. 

The Daily Cross~ord 
ACROSS 1 Boutique 5 Extent 
10 Stain 14 Soffit 
companion 15 Kind of pole 16 Mine vein 17 Comic strip 19 Hot place 20-Ferry 21 Scarlet 
quality 23 Poetry: abbr. 24 Together 26 Frighten 28 Extinct bird 29 Bobby of 
ten"'is 33 On s org. 34 Garland 35 Stay until 
completion 36 Marker 37 Comic strip 39 Prevaricate 40 Give money 

~1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
in advance 1/21/87
All Rights Reserved 

Campus 
12:30-4:30 p.m.: Sign-ups for Neil Simon's play "Biloxi Blues" at the Morris Civic Auditorium, $12.00 including transportation from the main circle, Student Government Treasurer Office, 2nd floor LaFortune 
7:00,9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie, "Fast Times at Ridgemont High," Engineering auditorium, $1.50 
11:15 a.m,-12: 15 p.m.: Skating and Hot Chocolate, ACC 
Thcz C~ar 
SAD RECORD STORE 
. I ·• · 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 

Special Swamp Dinner Bayou Gumgo Cajun Fried Chicken JambalayaFried Catfish with Creole dipping sauce 
Saint Mary's 

Spaghetti or Shells with Italien sauce Italian meatballs Rou~uefort and Shrimp stuffed sole Garbe baked chicken 
oPEN SATURDAYS 
1-5 


RATE \'1@lVJ~ 1986 TOP TEN 
•VOTE 
FOR YOUR FAVORITE ALBUMS 

•SIGN 
UP FOR FREE ALBUMS 

•TELL 
US WHAT YOU WANT 


,....-------------, 42 Ill. neighbor 

The Observer 
Applications are being accepted for the position of 
Managing Editor 
Please contact Joe Murphy 
239-7471 
Personal statement 
and resume due by 
5 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 21 
3rd Floor LaFortune Student Center 
43 After HST 

44 Vintage car 4 Salt companion 45 D.C. VIP 5 Celebrity 46 Race 6 Ate 48 NFL superstar 7 Mel of 
category baseball 50 Samovar 8 Ill. city 51 "Let the far 9 Ant old style 
and-all 10 Comic strip unite" (Paine) 11 Zero in 54 Without tennis principles 12 Pindaric works 58 Aborigine 13 Wallet items 
of Nippon 18 Roll call word 59 Comic strip 22 John or Bo 61 Incision 25 More clamorous 62 Addlebrain 26 Shoot from 63 Fr. magazine ambush 64 Covers with 27 Musical sound 

turf 30 N.T. precept 65 Cattle 31 Conduct 45 Grow 66 Old cars 32 Charger 46 Totals 
34 "As I -Dying" 47 Investigator 
DOWN 35 Advanced 49 Cheryl and 1 Genesis name degree: abbr. Alan 2 Double laugh? 37 Explorer La -51 Russ. news 3 Appraises 38 Proclaim agency 
excessively 41 Comic strip 52 Hawaiian port 
1/21/87 
53 Camelot 
lady 55 --do-well 56 Woody's boy 57 Caustic 
substances 60 Next to nothing 



~ ·---~ ---~----------~~----­
-


Wednesday, January 21, 1987-page 12 

I: 
I\ 
i \ 
I, 
I. 

· i 
Bunek look on in last night's 85-68 Irish win at the ACC. Theresa Kelly gives details of the game below. 

ND women haul down 65 boards, muscle way past Oeveland State 
Notre Dame guard Diondra Toney swats away the shot of Cleveland State's Lisa Kipp while Irish players Kathy Barron and Heidi 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team dominated the boards last night, beating Cleveland State 85-68 to im­prove its record to 4-10 for the year. 
The Irish used a large height advantage to outrebound the Vikings by a whopping 65-36 margin. Notre Dame's all-time record for rebounds in one game is 74. 
"We knew we had the height advantage," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao, "and we had to go out and use it." 
Junior forward Sandy Bot­
ham  led  the  Irish  with  15  
· rebounds,  Annie  Schwartz  
added  12  and  Heidi  Bunek  

Irish wrestlers pin down win thanks to AlA forfeitures 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
After losing three dual meets this year because of matches it had to forfeit, the Notre Dame wrestling team finally got its chance to turn the tables last 
:!' l night against Athletes in Ac­tion. Taking advantage of 12 points handed to Notre Dame by Athletes in Action forfeits, and overcoming some lack­luster performances, the Irish defeated Athletes in Action, 25­23, at the ACC Pit. Despite the win in the exhibi­tion dual meet, Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann was not pleased with the results, as the Irish won only two of the six meets that were not for­feited. "I was hoping to win four of six matches; we ended up losing four of six," said McCann. "We gave a couple of matches away that we could have won. I don't think we wrestled very well." Notre Dame's two winners 
were 118-pound freshman Andy Radenbaugh, by a score of 11-1, and 142-pound sophomore Pat 
Boyd, by  a  score  of 4-2  over  
Arizona State graduate  Tom  
Riley.  .  

"I was extremely pleased by Pat Boyd. He beat one of their better guys who was a good col­lege wrestler," said McCann. 
Injuries to sophomore stand­outs Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser may have partially af­fected Notre Dame's perfor­mance in the other matches, as some wrestlers had to change their weight classes to keep the Irish from forfeiting those matches. 
"We had no continuity out there with the changed lineup, but I'm not going to make any excuses," said McCann. "If people are injured, the others are just going to have to suck it up and take up the slack. Some of the guys don't look hungry enough." 
Whether Durso or Geneser will be able to wrestle against 
see IRISH, page 10 
pulled down 10. Bunek also led all Irish scorers with 22 points, shooting 10-of-16 from the field and two-of -three from the free­throw line. 
"When Heidi decides to turn it on, she does really well,'' said DiStanislao. "She created bas­kets for herself on the fast breaks." 
Last night's game also marked the first appearance of Notre Dame's two newest players to the team, Ellen Mauch, a 5-6 guard from Mineral Wells, Texas, and Kim Garrison, a 6-0 forward from Mill Creek, Wash. Both saw ac­tion last night, although neither scored. 
Neither really had to score on a night when Notre Dame's tough defense forced Cleveland State into shooting a woeful.189 (7-of-37) from the floor in the first half. The Irish led 41-27 at the intermission, and although Cleveland State's outside shooters improved their mark a little in the second half ­scoring over the Irish zone to finish the game at a .278 clip ­it was nowhere near enough. 
While Notre Dame's traditionally-tough match-up zone defense was causing prob­lems for the Vikings, the Irish offense was rolling to a .522 field-goal percentage for the game. Botham connected on 7­of-11 to chip in 15 points to the Irish cause, while guards Mary Gavin and Diondra Toney each added 11 points. 
see BOARDS, page 8 

Freshman center Scott Paddock hauls down key contributor to the Notre Dame basketball a rebound in a game last week against West team already on the young season, is featured Virginia. The 6-9 Paddock, who has become a on page 10. 

Super Bowl's a BIG, but one-shot, deal 
"If tb.e Super Bowl is such a big deal, then why do they play it every year?" 
Free-spirited running back Duane Thomas of the Dallas Cowboys uttered these words more than 10 years ago, obviously not agreeing with the rest of America that it should be held sacred. That was just one of the many phases that the Super Bowl has gone through in its previous 20 years. 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

The game began as a novelty, giving the wild and un­predictable AFL a chance to strut its stuff against the hallowed NFL. Tack on a few Roman numerals for aut­henticity and we may start a tradition here. 
In the first two years, it was no match. The Green Bay Packers disposed of Kansas City and Oakland, and with them, all notions that the AFL was equal to the NFL. 
But then some Joe from New York shook up the traditionalists with a promise and a performance that showed that this Super Bowl idea just may cut it after all. 
Things went fine until Minnesota started making regular appearances. They managed to turn every game into a rout or a bore. They did more than just look bad, they managed to make some excellent Miami and Pittsburgh teams look bad with them. 
When the Viking hex finally was eradicated, the Super Bowl put together some classics. The two Pittsburgh­Dallas matchups will forever be Super Bowl highlights. Who can forget Lynn Swann tipping and catching Terry Bradshaw's bomb out of the end zone? Or Jackie Smith dropping Roger Staubach's flip into it? These were the glory days of the Super Bowl. 
But things have changed now, and it is not necessarily good or bad, just different. We still have the trans­afternoon pre-game shows that tell the viewer everything he wants to know about the teams in the game. Twice. We still have the best of each conference playing each other, the same general idea with which the game originated. Football has just fallen into the same cycle as both baseball and basketball. It is very hard to repeat as champion. 
Not since the Steelers won in 1979 and 1980 has a team won consecutive Super Bowls. Most will say this is good. Pete Rozelle wanted parity and parity he is getting, right? Knock down those powerhouses and give the weak sisters a shot at the fame, the glory and the endorsements. 
see REPEAT, page 10 
' 
... 
The Observer/ 






