
Reaching a new low 
Light rain 60 percent likely Tuesday with a high in the lower 50s, then steady or slowly falling temperatures in 
IACCENT: Making a "spectacle" 
IVIEWPOINT: Consider the Plunge 
the afternoon. 


. 
Holy Cross Hall to stay open 
men's dormitories for nextBy GREG LUCAS year. "After that, (next year) 

Senior Staff Reporter 
the enrollment shift will be Holy Cross Hall will remain complete," said Tyson. 
open next year as an under­According to Tyson, the Of­graduate dormitory, said Fa­fice of Student Affairs is cur­ther David Tyson, vice presi­rently examining a number of dent of student affairs, at last ways to make use of the extra 
night's Student Senate room that will be available to 
meetin~. female students next year. 
Holy Cross residents were "We're in a position now to look notified last year that the hall at the whole (housing) situa­would be closed as a student tion" Tyson said. dormitory at the end of this One of the ideas under con­year and be reopened as sideration is offering single housing for Holy Cross priests. year leases to off-campus wo­
The hall will remain open an man transfer students who extra year, said Tyson. were unable to obtain on­
Tyson also announced that campus housing, he said. construction on the two new wo­Tyson also said that the ad­men's dormitories, Knott and ditional space in the new dor­
Seigfried, is on schedule, and mitories might be used to alle­completion is expected by April viate the crowded conditions in or May. Lyons Hall in order to create a 
The new dormitories will greater amount of social space. both be opened next year, In other business, the Senate Tyson said. passed a new Student Union 
The Observer I Wen Yl

The enrollment shift, which Board ticket distribution 
Multicultural Fall Festival. Several other cultures 
is to take place over the next policy. 
will be represented through such events.
two years, will leave a number of open beds in the new wo-see SENATE, page 4 
Snowstorm badgers New England, downs power 
Associated Press Snow and fallen trees on "Of course, we are con­ski areas in Vermont both threatening to swell some 
roads made thousands of cerned about the perception," opened Monday. streams with snowmelt. 
Ski resorts opened early, and tourists who had gone to see Braun said. "People in south­It was the earliest opening "The only thing I worry rising temperatures raised the New England's colorful fall ern New England may have ever for Killington, which about is we might get a lot of threat of flooding as more than foliage spend an extra night in heard that there was this big usually starts up in mid to late rapid melting with that snow," 
200,000 people remained with­motels and inns. storm in Vermont and think October, but a warming trend National Weather Service out electricity Monday after At Vermont's State Travel there is no foliage. Well, there this week was expected to close forecaster Joe Luisi said Mon­New England was battered by Division, officials wondered is." it again. day at Montpelier, Vt. "It's the earliest snowstorm of the what impact the storm would "I don't think it will have a going to be a mess." century. have on the foliage season, major impact. ... The foliage The snow began falling Sat­The South also had unusual 
Six deaths were blamed on which attracts 1 million people is spectacular because of the urday evening and lasted into weather, with overnight lows the weekend storm, which piled to the state between mid­unusual combination of bright Sunday afternoon, with the dipping into the 30s Monday in snow as high as 20 inches in September and mid-October. sun and snow,'' said Bill Wilson heaviest accumulations in parts of Mississippi, Alabama 
New York's Catskill moun­"We have checked today and of the Berkshire Hills Confer­southeastern New York, west­and northern Florida, and tains. Frosty temperatures ex­found that most all of the ence tourism agency in west­ern Massachusetts and south­record lows were recorded in tended deep into the South,· state's foliage was unaffected ern Massachusetts. western Vermont. 15 cities in Tennessee, Missis­while the West Coast was by the storm," said Bill Braun But on Monday, tempera­sippi, Alabama, Georgia and 

VIva Mexico! 
Two students entertained spectators on Fieldhouse Mall with traditional Mexican dances Monday. The event was part of the week-long 
having a 100-degree heat wave. of the Travel Division. 

Man makes wrong turn, gets lost for a week 
Associated Press where he was staying Sept. 
23. Although the cabin was 

DUNEDIN, Fla. -An el­about five miles out of town derly Florida man ap­his trip took him to at least parently made a wrong turn four states, authorities said. during a five mile trip in "I got twisted around, and Georgia and spent a week the further I drove, the fur­driving around lost and con­ther I was getting away. I fused, taking naps in the car just got completely lost," and showers in truck stops Stophel said. " ... I didn't from Georgia to Indiana. know which way I was going 
"Nobody's happier to be or anything. My mind just back than me," said Joseph left me." Stophel, 79, from his home Stophel, a resident of here. "I was driving a brand Dunedin, drove back into new car, and I know I put a Blairsville, Ga., Wednes­lot of miles on it." day, a week after he was re­
Stophel was on a trip to ported missing. Georgia visiting relatives when he set out for a cabin see WANDER, page 4 The Killington and Stratton tures headed toward the 60s, Florida. 

Byrd: Bark nomination 'doomed' 
Associated Press withdrawing the nomination Dennis DeConcini, Lowell "would spare Mr. Bork." Weicker Jr., and John Chafee 
WASHINGTON -Robert At the White House, Reagan left the undecided camp for the Bork's Supreme Court hopes said he would fight on, declar­opposition, with DeConcini tel­suffered major new setbacks ing that only "over my dead ling reporters, "I think it's 
Monday as Senate Majority body" would the nomination be over." Leader Robert Byrd, a conser­defeated before reaching the DeConcini said his personalvative Democratic senator and full Senate. 
count shows at least 53 senators two liberal Republicans opposed to Bork, while Sen. declared opposition to his con­Before Byrd's announce­Alan Cranston -who counts 
firmation. ment, chief White House noses as the Democratic whipByrd had been publicly un­spokesman Marlin Fitzwater -added that he now counts 53 op­decided, even suggesting that called the nomination "very posed and 42 in favor with five 
he and other Senate Judiciary much alive." After hearing senators' positions unknown. Committee members should about Byrd, he said, "It's get­send the nomination to the Sen­ting tougher but we're still "The outcome is now pre­ate floor without taking a stand working on it." ordained," Cranston said. "I on it when they vote Tuesday. Tom Korologos, the adminis­don't see how it can be turned 
But on Monday he called the tration lobbyist working on around now." nomination "doomed," said Bork's behalf, said, "It doesn't Fitzwater said Reagan telep­President Reagan shouldn't look good, but we're still in honed four senators Monday,have picked Bork in the first there slugging." lobbying for their votes, but he place and suggested that In addition to Byrd, Senators wouldn't say who they were. 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, October 6, 1987 



Of Interest 
Urban Plunge registration continues today through Friday, October 9 at 3 p.m. Registration packets are avail­able at Notre Dame from the Center for Social Concerns and from Campus Ministry (Badin Hall or Library), and at Saint Mary's from the Office of Justice Education (Room 128 or 159 Madeleva Hall) and Campus Ministry (Regina Hall). For more information, call Dan Keusal at 239-7~3. 
-The Observer 

Overseas Development Network will have a general meeting at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns. --The Observer 
Ushers are needed for all performances of Death of a Salesman, Wednesday through Sunday at Washington Hall. Ushers see the performances for free. Contact Tom Barkes at 5956 for details. -The Observer 
Le Cercle Francais is having their second "cafe hour" at 8:45p.m. in the ISO lounge of LaFortune, follow­ing the Snite's 7 p.m. film, "La Ronde." All francophones and francophiles are welcome. -The Observer 
Overnight Homeless Shelter Volunteers will have an orgamzational meeting at 6:30 p.m. in the library auditorium. At that time, volunteers will select the date(s) they wish to help at the shelter. Volunteers are organized in teams of 4-6 people. Come with your own team or one can be formed for you. -The Observer 
Eating Awareness Training Session 3: "How to deal with the problem," will be held at 6:30-7:30 p.m., in Room 300, University Counseling Center, 3rd floor of the Student Health Service. The speaker will be Nancy Schoeneman, M.A. -fThe Observer 
Assertiveness Training Seminar session II, sponsored by the University Counseling Center, will take place Wednesday, October 7, at 4:15 in 200 Haggar Hall. 
-The Observer 

The Multicultural Fall Festival continues with a fireside chat by Professor Bellis on Africa at 12: 15 p.m. in the ISO lounge on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Hawaiian dancers will be performing at 4:30 p.m. on Fieldhouse Mall. There will also be an Indian Pow-Wow at 8 p.m. on White Field by Stepan featuring a bonfire reception and dancers from the Potowanamie Tribe. -The Observer 
Scholastic will hold a training session at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater of LaFortune for those who signed up at Activities Night. All past and present writers are invited to attend the organizational workshop and office tour. -The Observer 
College of Science Sophomore Orientation will take place in the library auditorium at 8 p.m. Refresh­ments will be served. -The Observer 
"The One Minute Manager,'' a film presentation by the CAPPIOPMA Club, will be shown at 7 p.m. in 210 O'Shaughnessey. The film will feature topics of managerial skills. -The Observer 
The Career and Placement Services office is sponsoring its annual Arts and Letters Career Day on October 7, from noon to 4 p.m. in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education. Representatives from 30 career fields will be in attendance to answer students' questions and to provide career literature. Seniors, juniors, and sophomores of all majors are invited and encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
A spaghetti dinner will be hosted by the Economics Department on Thursday at 6 p.m. All economics majors and interested students are invited to attend. The dinner will be held in the basement of Walsh. $1 is asked for at the door. -The Observer 

Design Editor ... . Kathy Huston Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Matt Slaughter Design Assistant ................... Jodi Topel Accent Copy Editor ..... Trisha Chambers Layout Staff. .................... Katie Gleason Typists ................................ Lynn Ewing ......................................... Cathy Keenan ............................................ Jenn Conlon Typeaetters .. ,.................... Daniel Cahill ND Day Editor ...................... David Lee ............................................. Paul Babbs SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Rader News Editor..................... Regis Coccia Photographer................... Suzanne Poch Copy Editor .. .. .. .. . Matt Crowley ................................................... WenYi Sports Copy Editor .............. Pete Gegen Viewpoint Layout ................................ . 
.. .. .. . .. .... Richelle Aschenbrenner 
De a..n. (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. ne at.rYer is published by the students of the Univcnit)' or Notre o.me and Saint Mary's Colleae. Sublcriptions may be purchas­ed ror S40 per year (S25 per lelllelter) by wriliq De a..n., P.O. Box Q, Notre o.me,Jodiua465S6. 
ne a..n. is • member or ne "-da... ...__ All reproduction riahts are raerved. 

Success: getting there means planning it out 
Success...the definition means something different to each individual, but everyone wants it. 
Webster's says success is "the achievement of something desired, intended, or attempted." It is the realization of an objective. 
But, how do you obtain that elusive "someth­ing?" 
Success does seem to come easily to some (at great envy to the rest of us), but this is rare and usually short-term. The "realization of an objective" involves planning, maybe even a goal. 
Much of the mystique or excitement of suc­cess disappears when hard work or planning is mentioned. In monetary terms (not the only goal one can set by any means), you can spend your entire life playing the lottery, hoping for the big jackpot or you can develop a plan which would help you achieve the same financial se­curity over a longer period of time. 
Winning the "lottery of life" may be exciting, but it may never happen. The odds for success become greater when you can take destiny into your own hands. Realizing an objective can be exhilarating in its own right, even without the hype of instant success. 
The problem with achieving success comes not on the path to that goal, but in figuring out what that path is. 
Picture trying to reach a destination with no road signs or maps to guide you; the same is true of the path to success. Without a clearly marked path to follow, the destination may never be reached. 
Take a long range objective, just one -no, not later -but right now at the dining hall. Think of that "something" which determines success for you. Don't look at the objective of the person sitting next to you, but think about what career, financial standing, community involvement you think you can put under that "something" category. 
None of us are sure of future outcomes, or even if down the road we will want to achieve the goal we want now, but until we set out down a path we won't even be able to reach a cros­sroad. 
To use yet another cliche, "you can't win the race until you get out of the gate." The trick in establishing a goal plan of action is being specific in what the "something" is. 
Right now your overall goal for "success" probably is not specific. With the overall objec­tive in mind, take a step back from that and determine what immediately preceded that final outcome. 
Picture yourself in that final situation and 


SENIQR PQ~TRAITMAKEUP OCTOBER 9TH 9:00AM -4:00 PM ROOM 307 LAFORTUNE 
SIGN-UPS: MorvWed October5&7 9:00-11:00, 1:00-6:00 Tueslfhurs October 6 & 8 10:00-12:00, 2:00-5:00 
in the DOME OFFICE Room 310 Lafortune tThis is only for people who HAVE ~OT had their pictures taken. ,CiQ retakes please.) 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 

lecture: "ECONOMICS IN THIS TIME" 
I 

··, by JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH 
. Tuesday, October 13, 8:00pm I Washington Hall sponsored by the Student Union Board I I and the Economics Department 
I

ITICKETS: $2.00 -available at the Ticket Stub, 1Q/6 -1Qt9 & 1Q/121 12:00-1:00 pm & 4:00-5:00 pm
I · 

I 
An undergraduate reception, sponsored by the College Fellows Office of the 
College of Arts & Letters and the Student Union Board, will be held from 
---·_______..§.:l..~m-0ll ~~1.1:.---·-·-·-·----­



Scott 
Bearby 
Assistant News Editor 
then what you were doing immediately prior to that. If you don't know, find out. 
The next step is to work backwards further and examine that secondary plate'ilu. Deter­mine how you can achieve that level of "success," each step becoming more and more specific and closer to reality. 
This process continues until you reach your current standing as a college student. Ask, "What can I do tomorrow to reach the next step to my overall goal?" 
Goal setting not only is helpful for the big picture of ultimate success, but also for everyday living. "What are my self-imposed deadlines for getting that research paper done next week? What are my priorities for tonight?" 
Unlike travel, going from point A to point B probably will not follow a straight line when it comes to success. 
The goal setting process can be tedious to some, downright scary to others. But without an objective to reach and an outlet to answer the above questions, "success" and that "something" you seek are in the hands of little pingpong balls in a lottery. 
Tuesday, October 6, 1987 The Observer 
page 3 

Arts & Letters Career Day to feature over 30 careers 

By JIM RILEY 
News Editor 
Representatives of more than 30 career areas will be on hand Wednesday for Liberal Arts Career Day. 
Career and Placement Ser­vices will host the annual event in the Center for Continuing Education from noon until 4 p.m. 
"It's not a recruiting effort," public relations and advertis­said Paul Reynolds, assistant ing, industrial and graphic director of career and place­design, health care and many ment services. "It's an others. information-gathering ses­sion." "They are not all business 
type careers," Reynolds said, 
There will be one or two rep­although careers such as finan­resentatives from each career, cial services will also be Reynolds said. Careers represented.represented at the event will in­clude commercial banking, Representatives will be available to discuss careers and pass out literature. 
The event is open not only to seniors but also sophomores and juniors. Reynolds said those students could benefit from obtaining career informa­tion early, and might find that they want to take certain courses to prepare for those careers. 
""-~~-.:' ·, :~·~ ...
•T'4'7Jif', ~ "" _<t' ' ­
~.;• ~ . ---:, ·~



New U.S. trade accord 
< 
"'to~


with Canada may yield !' -,;" A·l~~:<' 
~-.. . . 
~ :.·+ '" !!'... h ~ 
,, ¥ Si~· . . . 


'controversial' results 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeut­ter conceded Monday that win­ning congressional approval of a far-reaching free trade pact with Canada will "require a lot of effort" on the part of sup­porters. 
Despite initial optimism ex­pressed by Canadian and U.S. officials, Yeutter said obtain­ing approval of the agreement might be difficult, particularly over some of its provisions -in­cluding giving Canadians access for the first time to oil from Alaska's North Slope. 
But he told reporters that, in the end, "this is a package that should sell itself and will sell itself." 
The accord, completed after 16 months of negotiations and just before a midnight Satur­day deadline, calls for an elim­ination of all tariffs and most other trade barriers between the two countries by Jan. 1, 1999. 
It would create the world's largest open market. But as fuller details of the ac­

cord began to surface Monday, key U.S. lawmakers voiced skepticism over the prospects for quick approval. 
The pact must be approved by both Congress and the Canadian Parliment to take ef­fect. 
Senate Finance Committee Chai:r:man Lloyd Bentsen said in a statement that it was "ob­vious that a lot of the major points have not been resolved." 
"Up to this point, . . . all we've been hearing about are 
U.S. concessions," Bentsen added. 
Sen. Max Baucus, a Finance Committee member, said nei­ther the administration nor the Canadians should engage "in cheerleading tactics to build support for this agreement." 
The accord would give U.S. businesses greater opportuni­ties in Canada by lifting scores of trade and investment re­strictions. At the same time, it ., 
gives Canadian companies greater access to U.S. markets. 
With two-way trade last year of $135 billion, the United States and Canada are the world's largest trading partners. 



URBAN p< 
I'll<' Urban Plun!(t• Is a 48 hour Immersion Into lhr kind of life that C:::::.. mu•t NlJ/SMC studrnts have never seen. During Chrtstmas break. parttrlpants spend two days at an lnnrr clly site of their choosing (nvn 40 sites available). hosted by rontarl persons from a vartety of soml'rs. Thr Urban Plun!(e offrrs students the opportunity to 
z

t•xpnicnre thr conditions of Injustice. poverty. and apathy that exist In our clUes. as well as a rhance to meet persons who are workin~ to Improve these conditions and to evaluate their strategies. 
G)

P.lrllclpants recelv(' one hour arademic C'recllt. 
REGISTRATION PACKETS m AVAILABLE FROM SEPT. 30TH -OCT. 9TH 
AT N.D.: 

·Crnter for Social Conrcms ·Campus Ministry: Badin llall I llesburgh Library llall Representatives 
AT S.M.C.: 
·Office of Justice Education 128/ 159 Madaleva llall ·Campus Ministry 150 Regina ·llall Representatives 


I..__D_E_A_D_LI_N_E_:O_c_t_.9_3:00 pml 
For more Information, call Dan Keusal 239-7943 

Rope tricks 

Students Kathy Carney and Joe Bellavance skip away some free time Monday. 


SMC sets Oct. goal of $1,800 
for United Way fundraiser 
By LINDA BAILY 
News Staff 
A fundraising campaign for the United Way was discussed by the Saint Mary's Program­ming Board on Monday night. 
"The United Way fundraiser is a worthwhile cause," Smith Hashagen, vice president for Student Affairs, told the board. 

Hashagen set the goal for the fundraiser at $1,800 for Oct. 31. 
For every dollar donated, the United Way will give 83 cents to the needy, Hashagen said. 
Hashagen will meet today with Campus Ministry Com­missioner Beth Long to discuss how the United Way fundraiser will be conducted. 
Board members also viewed "There's A Place for Us," a 
A one-day seminar designed to help you make the transition from student to professional. 
SatuFday, November 7, 1987 
The cost of the seminar is $] 0, and hotel accommodations are available at a reduced rate. Sessions offered this year include: 
• 
Adolescent Chemical Dependence 


• 
Coping Measures for the Oncology Nurse 

• 
Creating a Successful Future 

• 
Dermatology Nursing 


• 
Intensive Care of the Transplant Patient 

• 
lnVitro Fertilization 

• 
Job Seeking Skills 

• 
Nephrology 

• 
Nursing and Outpatient Surgery 

• 
Transition: Survival Techniques 



Transition is sponsored by 


A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITAL 
Learning Resources Department 
Deadline for registration 
201 West Center Street 
is Oct. 23, 1987 
Rochester, MN 55902 

movie about how United Way programs help people. 
In other business, board members discussed the suc­cess of Fall Fest, an annual event sponsored by the Saint Mary's Student Government. 
"The comedian was great," Hashagen said, adding that about 300 people attended Fall Fest at Haggar College last Wednesday. 
"We were really happy with the turnout," said Hashagen. "The bookstore and the the snack bar were really crowded. The beer garden was a success as usual," she said. 
Hashagen also announced the upcoming events including dorm pictures on Wednesday, Oct. 7 from 9-11 p.m. 
The Saint Mary's varsity ath­letes will be selling $1 raffle tickets for a videocassette recorder. 
The raffle will be held Oct. 31 at Angela Athletic Facility. 
This weekend Saint Mary's new science hall will be dedi­cated, Hashagen said. All stu­dents are encouraged to attend, she said. 
Hashagen also said the first speaker of the Alumni series will be Kathleen Gunderman. 
i'She is the president of a marketing firm and she is very excited about speaking," said Hashagen. 
Gunderman will speak in Haggar parlor at 6:30p.m. on Oct. 28. 
CALL COLLECT 

507-286·7033 
For Registration, Information and Brochure 
Students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana Uinver­sity at South Bend, Bethel Col­lege, and Holy Cross Junior Col­lege are invited to attend. 
The Liberal Arts Career Day traditionally draws the highest attendance of any event run by the placement office each year with 350 to 400 students attend~ ing last year. 
, 
. ' 
suzanne Poch 1 The Observer 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, October 6, 1987 

Earthquake aftershocks continue to rattle, damage Southern California 



Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -After­shocks continued to rattle Southern California Monday, damage estimates jumped to $125 million and Gov. George Deukmejian said he might call a special session of the Legisla­ture to approve earthquake aid. 
The most recent of more than two dozen serious aftershocks following Thursday's major earthquake struck at 5 p.m. Monday, measuring 3.2 on the Richter scale, the seismology laboratory at the California In­stitute of Technology reported. 
In a report to Deukmejian, state disaster officials gave a preliminary damage estimate 
of  $117.3  million  damage  to  
9,164  homes  and  1,455  busi­ 
nesses.  

'Spirited' mayor stirs up town with 'voodoo dust' 
Associated Press leaving running,' " Patrick said. 
FLORALA, Ala. -When this Mayor H.T. Mathis, who is town's 85-year-old mayor white, acknowledged he spread sprinkled "voodoo dust" the powder -actually corn around City Hall to "drive the starch -over the City Hall floor evil spirits out" no one was early one morning last month quite sure whether it was all but won't discuss the reason be­just a joke. cause "the voodoo is still pend-
But the next day, the town's ing." first black police chief, A.V. Mathis and the city council Patrick, received an unsigned have long been at odds, most "warning letter from spirits" frequently over who controls that demanded he leave town the police department in this or "spirits see cemetery town of 2,000 on the Florida 
A portrait of Father Theodore Hesburgh painted joins the gallery of paintings of Notre Dame presi­nearby in near future." state line. City Councilman 
by Roger Roblls Is now able to be viewed In the dents on the third floor. "The letter came the next Jack Inabinett said he thinks 
Administration Building. Hesburgh's portrait day after it happened," the Mathis sprinkled the powder to police chief said Monday. "I frighten Patrick, who was 
Wander 
continued from page 1 
Items in his car showed he was in Indiana, Tennessee and Kentucky, said Union County Sheriff Tommy Duncan. 
Stophel said he spent the first night at a Nashville motel but pulled over in parking lots at shopping centers to sleep in his car's back seat other nights. He took showers at truck stops. 
"Sometimes I drove all night, and I was getting into it worse and worse," Stophel said. "Sometimes I would stop, and there wouldn't be any motels around, so I would drive the car into a lighted place, lock up and take a little nap." 
Stophel's son, Joe Stophel, said a Georgia physician who examined his father said his 
memory  may have  been  af­ 
fected by a slight stroke.  
"It  seems  to  be foggy.  He  

doesn't know where he was," Joe Stophel said. 
Clarification 
The Health Center will be giving flu immunization shots in the Dining Halls during lunch and dinner meals according to the fol­lowing schedule: 
-Oct. 12: South Dining Hall, -Oct. 13: North Dining Hall, -Oct. 14: South Dining Hall, -Oct. 15: North Dining Hall. 

feel like the letter was con-promoted to chief by the coun­
Stophel said he had an ad­

nected with the voodoo dust. I cil in January.
dress book beside him in the 
Senate 

feel like he was trying to scare Inabinett said a police dis-
car with his relatives' tele­

continued from page 1 me." patcher saw the mayor spread-
phone numbers, but he did not 

think of calling anyone for help. The new policy allows indi-"The mayor told me, 'If (the ing the powder, and Mathis told "I just never gave it a viduals on the SUB to preferen-powder) works, you'll know.' him he was doing it to "drive thought ... I'm not getting any tially receive 5 percent of the But 1 told him, 'I didn't come the evil spirits out of City
here running, and I'm not Hall."
younger, so I don't think my 

capacity or a maximum of ..lllilliliiiiiiiillilillliliiiill••lliiiiii---~~~~~~~~--,
mind will get too much better twenty tickets to events that
for memory." are primarily sponsored or 
Stophel was found just out­funded by the SUB. side Blairsville on Wednesday The determination of which by a woman who recognized his individuals will be allowed to 1987 white Cadillac from mis­receive preferential tickets 
sing person news reports and will be left to the discretion of led him back into town, Duncan the SUB steering committee. said. SUB members will not 
"She followed him, blew her receive preferential tickets to 
horn and got him to pull over,'' events where ticket distribu­Duncan said. "She asked him tion is run by a lottery or where if he was lost. He said, 'I sure the SUB is not a primary spon­am. I'm trying t<t find Griffin sor. 
Realty in Blairsville.'" Student Body President Pat 
The woman received a $500 Cooke said a Rosary Devotion reward for locating him, Stop­will be held at 6:45p.m. at the bel said. Grotto on October 7. The devo­
Investigators found a map of tion will be in honor of 1987 as the route from the realty office a Marian year, he said. to the cabin 0n the front seat

' but Stophel said it wasn't much help. Stophel returned to Florida Friday, and said Sunday he's happy to be back in familiar territory.  GA'S lots (8) Need USC GA'S Call MIKE LANIGAN (800) 621-2516 (312) 943-7846 after 5  
COLLEGE OF SCIENCEII II ~QPHOMORE ORIENTATION )I HESBORGH MEMORIAL LIBRARY AODITORIOM OCTOBER 6, 1987 -8:00 P.M. REFRESHMENTS SERVED!  

There was an additional $8.1 million damage to public prop­erty, said Tom Mullins of the State Office of Emergency Ser­vices. 
The Republican governor asked President Reagan and the Federal Emergency Man­agement Agency to declare a major disaster in Los Angeles and Orange counties, which would allow federal disaster relief such as individual grants up to $5,000, temporary housing help and low-interest loans to rebuild homes and businesses. 
Meanwhile, rubble was being cleared Monday from the downtown Whitter area, des­cribed as looking "like down­town Beirut." 
Most of the damage occurred during Thursday's quake which measured 6.1 on the Richter scale. 
INDIAN POW-WOW 
Tuesday, October 6th. at 8:00 p.m., on White Field (just past Stepan Center site of the Antostal mudpits) 

Bonfire complete with authentic, 
traditional American Indian dance troup from the Potowanamie 
Tribe. Storytelling, dancing,chanting, singing. It is truly a moving experience which you'll enjoy. 
BEACON BOWL BAR & RESTAURANT WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
Bowling Mon. -Fri. after 9:00pm & All day Saturday & Sunday. 
NDIST. MARY'S STUDBNT DISCOUNT RATBS 4210 Lincolnway West 234-4167 




