Bleech
IACCENT: New classes next year? Possible rain or snow showers today with highs in the upper 
30s. Lows tonight from 25 to 
30. Highs tomorrow in the low
IBUSINESS: The business of food sales 40s. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 55 

Council postpones decision 
By KARIN YOUNG News Staff 
The HPC will hold off any fur­thPr discussions about the $1,400 bill from the food fight until the Senate meets next week with John Goldrick, asso­ciate vice president of residence life, announced HPC Co-chairman Bob Daley at Tuesday's meeting. 
Daley said the HPC has no opposition to paying the bill but would like to make that deci­sion in a combined effort with all of student government and the student body. 
Daley and Co-chairman Tim Salmon said they hope to meet with Bill Hickey soon to obtain a general idea of his feelings concerning the student body's response to the proposed food bill. 

In other business, Liam Can­ny, president of Pangborn, is drafting a proposal to increase the number of tickets that are available to students for away football games. Canny told the Council he hopes to meet with Michael Bobinski. manager of ticket sales at the Joyce ACC on Thursday to discuss a change in the present ticket policy. Only 250 students received tick­ets to the Michigan game, ac­cording to Canny. Daley said 
see HPC, page 6 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The con­gressional Iran-Contra report paints a picture of a Reagan administration at odds with the law and the Constitution, but minority Republicans dis­missed it Tuesday as a partisan indictment of the president that ignores foreign policy ques­tions raised by the affair. 

The report says President Reagan flirted with constitu­tional crisis by creating a White House atmosphere that encouraged evasion of legal re­quirements and flouting of proper procedures for reaching foreign policy goals. 
It also says the administra­tion violated the Constitution by going to third countries to solicit donations for Nicaragua's Contra rebels at a time when Congress barred even indirect military aid to them. 
And it is sharply critical of Attorney General Edwin Meese III, questioning why he delayed launching a criminal investigation of the affair when it became public a year ago. 
The voluminous document, 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Dorm ·choice not on reply cards 

By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Starting with next fall's freshman class, the card in­coming freshman use to indi­cate their decision to attend the University will no longer in­clude a place to state their first and second choices for residence halls, said Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences. 
Reinebold said that having a place to express a preference on the card gave incoming freshman the impression that they would receive their first or second choice. 
"We have gotten some really vivid letters because (freshmen) were not given their first or second choice," she added. 
The policy had freshmen being placed into a dorm on the basis of when the confirmation card was received, she ex­plained. Those returning the card earlier usually received their preference, while those who sent their cards later were less likely to get their choice. 
"We decided that it might eliminate a lot of hard feelings . . . if we took that first and second choice factor off the card," Reinebold said. 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch The new policy doesn't mean
A mad rush? 
incoming freshmen won't have 
Even though she is presently the last in line, junior Donna Renaldo, 
a say in where they live, she
right, will not have to wait very long to get basketball tickets for this 
noted. 
season. 


Rosenthal speaks . about 



Report criticizes president 
importance of integrity
portray the administration asreviewing in detail the story of how administration officials sold arms to Iran in hopes of freeing Americans held hostage in Lebanon, then diverted some $4 million of the profits to the Contras, is due to be released Wednesday. 
But glimpses of its findings were gleaned Tuesday from a report of minority Republicans on the House and Senate inves­tigating panels and from com­mittee sources. 
"Clearly, what went on here was not what the founding fat­hers envisioned,'' said a source familiar with the report, who spoke only on condition of anonymity. "It paints a picture of a government out of con­trol." 
In its broadest criticism of the president, the Democratic­directed report concludes that Reagan failed in his constitu­tional duty to "take care that the laws be faithfully ex­ecuted." 
In the introduction to their own dissenting version of the report, the GOP members con­tended that the Democratic report also attempts, "almost as an overarching thesis, to if it were behaving with wanton disregard for the law." 

By MICHAEL DUNCANBut the minority dissent 
News Staff
found that conclusion, as well as many others in the docu­Athletic Director Dickment, based on selective use of Rosenthal stressed his sup­testimony and dubious inter­port in maintaining a highpretation of the law. 
standard of integrity inThe document was signed by Notre Dame inter-collegianall six Republicans on the athletics when he addressed House committee--Reps. Dick the fellowship of ChristianCheney of Wyoming, William Athletes last night in Stan­Broomfield of Michigan, Henry ford's 24-hour lounge. 
Hyde of Illinois, Jim Courter of Rosenthal, formerly theNew Jersey, Bill McCollum of Chairman of St. JosephFlorida and Michael DeWine of Bank, likened his effort to in­Ohio--and two Senate sure integrity in the athletic Republicans, Orrin Hatch of department with his past ef­utah and James McClure of forts to enforce honestyIdaho. 
among the bank's tellers.
The GOP members did find "There is no way to guaran­numerous mistakes, most of tee that the teller won't take them errors of political judg­money, but a process can be ment, including an 11-month provided that will help en­delay in notifying Congress of sure that it won't occur." 
the Iran arms initiative. 
"In the same way, there is no way we can insure that However, they wrote, "We the individual, whether it'semphatically reject the idea a coach or player, won'tthat through these mistakes, break any (rules). However, the executive branch sub­we can create an atmo­verted the law, undermined the sphere where violations areConstitution or threatened not condoned or tolerated."
democracy." 
"They still can tell us what hall they prefer, and it's indi­cated on (the card) that for 'special requests please con­tact the housing office by May 1,' " she said. "But we've also added we do not guarantee that (freshman) will be assigned to (their) hall preference." 
''I really expect to get enough letters to indicate real strong preferences," Reinebold added. 
Those students who do not write with their preference will be assigned to a hall at random, she said. 
With the old policy, some dorms had too many requests 
for  the  number  of  openings  
available, she noted.  
"There  were  many  

people that had it set in their mind that that was their choice and that was what they were going to get,'' Reinebold said. 
"It may sound like we're taking something away from them," she continued, "but I really don't feel that we are. We're just, I hope, eliminating a problem in their thinking that they will get their first or second choice." 
Many universities do not even give a choice in housing matters, but Notre Dame doe~ what it can to place people in their preferred halls, she said. 
Rosenthal said he believes that it is not always easy to avoid breaking some viola­tions by mistake simply be­cause there are so many 
Dick Rosenthal 

NCAA rules. He expressed discontent that the "philosophy of being good isn't as important as follow­ing a very narrow prescrip­tion, the rules." He cited, as an example, Digger Phelp's inability to drive a few team members to a funeral be­cause of NCAA rules. 

Wednesday, November 18, 1987 
page 2 The Observer 


Would being in top 25
In Brief 

really be worthwhile? 
range nuclear weapons will be ready for President Reagan The U .S.-Soviet treaty scrapping intermediate­
and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to sign in Washington next month, both sides seem to believe. A Kremlin negotiator said that work on the 120-page document was in the final stage and should be done by Nov. 23. He said that snags developed in the arms control talks when the Americans raised what he called "artificial issues" about verification provisions to be included in the treaty, but that they will probably be resolved before the summit. -Associated Press , Of Interest  
Solutions to world hunger will be the subject of a lecture by Janis Martin. It is sponsored by World Hunger Coalition, Overseas Development Network, and CILA. The lecture will be at 7 tonight in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. -The Observer CILAtMexico Project will hold a meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. For more infor­mation, contact Mike at 283-1049 or Dan at 271-0804. -The Observer A panel discussion will focus on "Empowerment or Enslavement? U.S. Foreign Policy and World Hunger" tonight at 6:45 in the Stapleton lounge in LeMans Hall. The panel members are Professors Anthony Black, Teresa Marcy, Joseph Miller, and John Gautier. -The Observer Beernuts' Mark Williams takes over WVFI's Campus Perspectives tonight from 10 to 11. Listeners may call 239-6400 to ask questions. The show, on 6400 AM, is hosted by Chris Shank. -The Observer Toastmasters members will meet at 5:30p.m. at the main circle for transportation to Club 23 for dinner and an informal meeting. -The Observer The bridge club will meet tonight and every Wed­nesday night at 11 in the Alumni partyroom. Contact Fa­ther Rozum, rector of Alumni, for more information. -The Observer Students Against MS will hold an orga_nizational meeting tonight at 7 in the New Orleans Room m LaFor­tune Student Center to plan the Indoor Ironman Triathalon. For more information, call Theresa Lawton at 283-4276. -The Observer Maura Quinlan of Americans United for Life will talk at 7 tonight in the Montgomery Room of LaFortune Student Center. The talk is sponsored by the NDtSMC Right to Life. -The Observer  
Cooks are needed for the ISO banquet. Call Ana Luisa Casillas at 284-4200 for if interested or for any ad­ditional information. -The Observer  
"Liberal Education and Careers in Business" is the title of a speech by John Madden, CEO of First National Bank, tonight at 7:30 in 223 Hayes-Healy. Madden is an ND alumnus and a member of the Board of Trustees. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor ................... Lisa Tugman Accent Copy Editor . ........... Mike Restle Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alison Cocks Accent Layout... .. ...... Heather Hypes Typesetters............... Becky Gunderman Typist .. .. .. ... .. Cathy Haynes ........................................... Michael Buc ND Day Editor.. .. .......... Katie Gugle News Editor............. Ann Marie Durning SMC Day Editor .. . .. .... Suzanne Devine Copy Editor.. Tim O'Keefe Photographer ....................... Susan Poch Sports Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Sports Wednesday Design .. Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Julie Collinge Sports Wednesday Editor .. Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Lapru.Lt . Laura Mami Tile Olleener (USPS ~99 2-'1000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods, Tile Oblerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptioru may be purclw­ed for So40 per year (S2~ per semester) by writina Tile Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46H6. Tile Olleener is a member of Tile Aaodated Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

"The onlything I don't like about Notre Dame is the football team." 
"It ruins the academic credibility of the Uni­versity," continued the visiting professor. Ad­mission standards are lowered to admit ath­letes, he said. Millions of dollars spent to build the team's new indoor sports facility should have been used to improve academics, he added. 
Was the professor right? 
Through a survey of 760 college and univer­sity presidents, U.S. News and World Report"s Oct. 26 edition ranked America's top 25 "na­tional universities." 
Notre Dame wasn't ranked. Nor was it ranked among the article's top 10 "national univer­sities" located in the midwest. 
Could a "big time" college football program prevent a university from achieving academic excellence? 
A quick check of the survey's results showed three Big Ten universities: Michigan (8th), Il­linois (20th) and Wisconsin (23rd) ranked in the top 25. A possible Notre Dame Cotton Bowl op­ponent, the University of Texas, was 25th on the list. 
Schools with big time basketball programs also placed on the list. Duke was seventh, and the University of North Carolina finished eleventh. 
Why, then, doesn't Notre Dame command the ''respect and attention in the realm of American higher education," (1987-88 Notre Dame Bulle­tin) that these universities do? 
Some have suggested Notre Dame's Catholic character prevents the school from becoming a truly great university. They argue that reli­gious teachings on abortion, homosexuality and birth control prevent Notre Dame from attack­ing these issues in the classroom. 
Again, a check of the survey results shows the "best" colleges and universities can be re­ligiously affiliated. 
Valparaiso University was ranked the num­ber one "midwestern and western comprehen­sive institution." Villanova University was ranked the best comprehensive institution in the east. And Saint Mary's College was ranked a top 10 "smaller comprehensive school." 
Why, then, didn't America's college and uni­versity presidents rank Notre Dame on any of the survey's lists? 
The answer is research, or Notre Dame's comparative lack of it. Notre Dame barely qualifies for the survey's definition of "National universities; the major research universities and leading granters of doctoral degrees." His­torically an undergraduate university, Notre Dame's research programs lag far behind those of the top 25 universities in the country. 

Chris Bednarski 
News Editor 


University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh was one of the first to realize that Notre Dame's research programs need improvement. His last years as president were marked by vigorous attempts to improve Notre Dame's graduate programs. In his footsteps, President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy has pledged continued improvement of the University's research programs. 
Top research programs, however, come all too often at the expense of undergraduate pro­grams, as professors are taken away from their students. 
Notre Dame professors interact closely with students, teaching them values that form the moral base for "the University's strong lead­ership on issues of world peace and social jus­tice," the article said in its only reference to Notre Dame. 
Close interaction with professors helps make Notre Dame a home for students, not just a school. It also helps develop individuals who will benefit society, not just the work force. 
Research improvements at the University may one day pay off, and a news magazine may one day rank the University as a top 25 research institution. 
In the meantime, Notre Dame will have to settle for an average research program, a tradi­tion of close-knit students and faculty and a top 10 football team. 
I'm not complaining. 


winner of this year's battle of the cam us bands 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20 

8:00 PM STEPAN CENTER (DOORS OPEN AT 7:00PM) 

i
Ca.twn.DIIP\:::Ir.s~ &k& 
:r.rry"'Bu.d."llelm.an. Amenca's h~··bea.!' cult t1gure and creator 
Rita Rudner. "Time 18 runnJ.ng out I want to have children while rny parents are sWl.YOUfl«flnought£1 
take011reofthem" 
-.o~... 2 
__,.,
"'ldladtea801n( ~ 
aaved my llle eo many umea as a t.by" 

TICKETS: $7.00 FOR STUDENTS· ($8.00 PUBLIC)-AVAILABLE AT THE CELLAR SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOARD 
.--------------~------------­
Wednesday, November 18, 1987 
The Observer 


The Observer I Suzanne Poch 

Bulletin Board Baron 
One of the signs of impending cold weather has at the JACC, is responsible for changing the mes­appeared --basketball announcements on the sign sages on the board. 
outside of the Joyce ACC. Leonard Sosinski, a worker 




<GY~A 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS (NILES 
ND NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R.'S (LAPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219-284-9190 




2V2C 
COPIES 
8\1! x II white 20# auto-fed 
NOW OPEN!!! 
*across the street from Corktown Liquors 
271-0398 

-~ --­
page 3 

Nicaraguan plan called an attempt to defeat Contras 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Nicaraguan government's cease-fire proposal is little more than a disguised attempt to help the Sandinista army achieve victory over the U.S.­backed Contras, a top State De­partment official said Tues­day. 
The official said the pro­posal, unveiled here last week by Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega, "is the type of thing a conquering commander would issue as terms of sur­render to a defeated foe." 
The official spoke to a group of reporters on the condition that he not be identified by name. 
Later Tuesday, House Speaker Jim Wright and Secre­tary of State George Shultz made an unusual appearance before television cameras to 
try to settle what Shultz called "a little tiff" over the speaker's ~~· embroilment in the Central 
•._ American peace process. 
I • 

r-------'--::='Theimportant thing is to 
. n
HAIR DESIGNS yoU CAN LIVE WITH
& oesiO 

Any_ Haircut 
$40FF (W/1COoSu ~~ s i n) o(nw]/aGnonuinpgo n) program_ Designers 
.With partic1patd1ng ng Appo1ntment
FF 
11

Valid Man-Fn nWhen Sche U



$1 00 
0 

J, ~~:M:en~t~o~n~c~o~up~o~Fe~b~1~_~1g~ss~C~()."l last August. The plan was to
7 0 Void After · L &cQ. have been implemented on
Nov. 5, but the deadline has since been deferred until Janu-

HAE 
56-5600 ary.
MIC 

coNCEPTS MISHAWAKA 2 The State Department offi-HAIR 236 WEOISO~ ol campus' 291-1001 cial 's critical assessment of the 12' , M11es Eas NO so BEND proposal was similar to that of 
1

L-------------.;;.2D_4_1E_
RE_L_A-----__.Jj the Contras. 
~fFJ@!Rllf~ 
are better with Your Group and 


CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
~~ **tl~~****t 
C{{V WEEKEND : ~ BEFORE BREAK~ 
~Thursday: 
look ahead and focus on things we agree on, insofar as our Central American policy is con­cerned," said Shultz, after coming to Capitol Hill for a hastily arranged meeting with Wright. 
Sharp differences over U.S. policy and tactics in Central America remained between Wright and the administration, but the meeting appeared de­signed to quiet the public clash which officials feared was dis­tracting attention from sub­stantive peace talks in Central America. 
Under Ortega's proposal, any Contras who lay down their arms and accept a government offer of amnesty may rejoin the political life of the nation "with full enjoyment of rights." 
The government asked rebels to move to any of three cease-fire zones where their safety would be guaranteed once the 30-day truce goes into effect on Dec. 5. Humanitarian aid could be sent to the Contras, but military resupply would be forbidden. 
Ortega has made clear he sees his offer as a proposal and not an ultimatum. 
The plan has been hailed by Wright, D-Texas, as another step in the ''progression toward peace" even though some 



~·~:o~~eda~~:~:· 
need to be 
A cease-fire is a key element of the Central American peace plan approved by Ortega and four other regional presidents 

The Bottom Line-9:30 ~ campus band iC open 8-2 ~ 
Movie: Monty Python's ~ The Meaning of Life ~ 9:00pm ~ 
LP /TAPE COUPON CLASSICAL CD COUPONCD COUPON 
$1.00 OFF 
& JAZZ





!$2.00 OFF 
ALL LP /TAPESALL DISCS 
EXPIRES 11-30-87 
PRICED $6.99 UP 

$4.00 OFF 
ALL DISCS EXPIRES 11·3D-87 EXPIRES 11-30·87 
EXCLUDES SALE ITEMSPRICED $15.99 AND UP 
PRICED $16.99
EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS 
~ 
~ 

~ Friday: 
~ 
"""' 
~ 
~

SEE WHY TRACKS IS THE AREA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE. . .OVER 30,000 CDS I LPS I TAPES!!! 
~Saturday:
~if:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=~~t~:::~:::~:::;:~:::;:;:;:::;~~~::::;:~~;~;~~::::;:;:::::::::~:::::=:;;;=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:\\l\ 
~ 

\m XL 1190 11TH TAPE FREEl $19.99 SA90 WITH FREE CASE lm ~ t XLIIS90 11TH TAPE FREEl $23.99 SAX90 WITH FREE CASE;~:~ 
t Sunday:
~J~t:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~::::::::.;:.::~=~:x;;:::::;:::::;:~:::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~* iC ~ 
DJ's playing your favorites ~ after the film. ~ 
DJ's Tom Sloane and ~ Marty Crowe ~ 
Open 12-6 
t 

Build your own subs!! ~ $2 all you can eat ~ 
take a study break, watch some 
....,. football, or j'}Lst ha!'1} out.


o!.l3~s~~§n 
m m 



"""·•················· 

Wednesday, November 18, 1987

page 4 The Observer 


said.
require hospital care, Scanlon ~~:~:CHARQ!:·~~·=..::._=...=.,':===~!!!!!!!!!!!!~J::k==~!!~=~~~=e=<:JIId"~~~===~==~
Commissioner Anne Graham stressed the danger of three items--two of which she noted are not toys at all, even though 

THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
they are often used by children. 


school teachers, priests and brothers, doctors, lawyers, No matter race, color, or religious belief. farmworkers, and even a president. It is an organization It is an organization that gives $66 million in where a Kansas farm boy may become charity, but truly prizes its 19 million hours of the leader of the most influential lay Catholic organization volunteer service above all. in the world. Service is the Knights true weapon of faith. Won't you join us in our work, in our fight? 
Brorhers, Sislers, Priesh, serve in 27 coumries around !he world. 

Join our ranks, with you, we can make a difference! 
MARYKNOLL. NEW YORK 10545 

Call or stop by 239-7018 or 283-1092 
I 
---.:-r.~­-~::--" 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch

Master of music 
Sophomore Tim Frommer DJs at WVFI Tuesday Dining Hall's fine fare get to enjoy Frommer's selec­night. Every Tuesday night, connoisseurs of North tion of tunes, gently wafted through the PA system. 

'Shoppers beware of dangerous toys' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The fuzzy white moose seemed to smile, and his bells jingled, as the head of the government's prod­uct safety agency held him up Tuesday with a warning that such friendly-looking toys pose hidden dangers to the unwary. 
The loosely attached bells on the moose can easily come loose and might choke a child, Terrence Scanlon, chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, noted at his agency's annual toy safety briefing. 
The moose was one of mil­lions of toys kept out of stores by federal officials, along with a toy train that had 300 times the legal amount of lead in its paint and a rattle with a long handle that could choke an in­fant, Scanlon said. 
Recalls covering some 2.9 million children's products-­mostly toys --were announced during the 1986 fiscal year, Scanlon said. In addition, he said, 2.2 million unsafe toys were stopped at ports of entry by commission and Customs 
Service officials. 
But still, 35 children died last year in accidents involving toys and more than 100,000 were hurt seriously enough to 
Maryknoll 
People working around the world with people. 

CHARITY-UN lTV-FRATERN lTV-PATROTISM 
Who are the Knights? The Knights were founded in a time of despair for 
The Knights of Columbus is a lay Catholic Roman Catholics as an action to defeat despair. 
fraternity who's life revolves about the Church. In its 106 years of service, it has assisted 
It involves Rosary devotions, Masses for its orphans, widows, disabled members, soldiers in time deceased and those thirsting for life. Its members of war, the handicapped, the mentally disabled, have been factory laborers, law officers, firemen, the abused, the forgotten, the hungry, and the tired-
One of the most dangerous is the all-terrain vehicle, the popular three-and four-wheel motorized cycle popular for off­road use. 
Hundreds of deaths and hundreds of thousands of injur­ies have been blamed on these machines, she pointed out. The commission has urged that the vehicles not be sold to youngsters and that smaller versions of the machines in­tended for youths no longer be 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 

ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
~:~CMC ~~':..,."""..:' ~J.R.'I(IA 
made, but consideration of a recall has been stalled by the Justice Department. 
Second on her danger list was lawn darts, used to toss at a large ring in a game similar to horseshoes. Children struck by them have been injured and killed. "Lawn darts are not toys for children. Parents should not allow children to play with lawn darts," said Commisioner Carol Dawson. 




Mr. Potato Head gives up his pipe 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Mr. Potato Head, 35, quit smoking Tues­day. He gave his pipe to Sur­geon General C. Everett Koop and vowed never to touch it again. 
"He started to smoke the day he was born," said Koop. "Not only is it dangerous to his health, it gives the message to kids around the country that smoking is not a bad thing to do." 
So pleased was Koop with Head's decision that he proclaimed the giant potato the official "spokespud" for this year's Great American Smokeout, the American Can­cer Society's drive to get mil­lions of Americans to give up smoking, at least for the day, on Thursday. 
About 40 million Mr. Potato Heads have been sold since the Playskool toy was introduced 35 years ago, complete with stick-on eyes, ears, a nose, a mouth--and a pipe. 
Now that he has kicked the habit, Playskool officials are thinking about reshaping the mouth--which now looks a lot like a mustache--into a smile for the estimated 1 million toys manufactured each year. 
First lady Nancy Reagan sent "heartiest congratula­tions" to Head. 
"By kicking the habit, Mr. Potato Head will not only im­prove his health, but will serve as a good example to young people who need to learn the importance of maintaining good health habits," Mrs. Reagan said in a message read by Koop. 
_-"'\ _...).. _--v.;,r \ ,.. • s.95~'{&~& \t& oz.l't.~G ~o\UA rno~&\1.. co~'O 
0 ,.hJ 




Wednesday, November 18, 1987 The Observer page 5 
--------------------------~~~~~------------------------------------~~~ 


College Briefs 
Pizza terrorists are engaging in sub­versive activity in Missouri. Pizza parlor managers charge that University of Missouri Greeks are terrorizing pizza delivery people, smashing headlights and stealing pizzas -­and that police fail to take decisive action. Greek leaders, however, deny any pizza raiding activity. -National On-Campus Report 
Criminal charges and severe sanctions have been levied against an Iowa State Uni­versity fraternity after a pledge nearly died from drinking too much alcohol at a house party. Among the sanctions: no alcohol in the house and no alcohol-related, chapter­sponsored parties for a year, and sponsorship of alcohol awareness programs. In addition, some individual members face criminal charges. -National On-Campus Report 
Dry rush weeks at some University of Penneylvania fraternities and sororities have caused some Penn Greeks to turn to alternative methods of attracting freshmen­-including strippers. At least two have turned up, and peeled, at recent rush get-togethers. Although a couple of attendees were quoted in the campus newspaper as saying the events were "disgusting," the age-old enter­tainment drew little reaction from the ad­ministration or student groups. "Without the alcohol, it's very, very hard for freshmen guys to meet girls," said one frat freshmen. 
-National On-Campus Report 
Clean air deadline nears for cities 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Envi­ronmental Protection Agency said Tuesday that some cities probably will have to enact new auto restrictions under its planned new policy calling for eventual penalties against areas that can't quickly meet clean air goals. 
Four senators denounced EPA administrator Lee Thomas for not announcing penalties as of Jan. 1. Anything else, they said, is an illegal ex­
.........................,...............................,....~~ 
OFF CAMPOS STUDENTS 
FALL FORMAL AT KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB ON WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 2ND 
TICKET SALES IN LAFORTUNE MAIN LOBB :ON: THURSDAY 19th NOVEMBER 12 noon
l -2 pm FRIDAY 20th & MONDAY 23rd AT II:30-2 PM 
s;~~.;i~.~~~~.~.........,,.,,.,,~.~.~(J~J<: 
Saint Mary's College Department of Communication & Theatre presents the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production of 

O'Laughlin Auditorium November 18, 19, 20, 21 at 8pm November 22 at 3pm Tickets: 56/55 Students & Senior Citizens: 54 
• 
written and directed by Julie Jensen 

designed by Linda H. Wigley 
produced by Roberta N. Rude 
Information call O'Laughlin Box Office: 284-4626 group rates available: 239-5956 --tit-­
Saint MarY-'s Col~ 
NOTRE DAME ·INDIA A 

In Cooperation with the Sexuality Education Program of Saint Mary·s College 
tension of deadlines only Congress can set. 
Thomas said their interpre­tation of the law was wrong. He said he had been trying ''ad nauseam" to get Congress to change the Clean Air Act to postpone deadlines for compli­ance with pollution standards, currently Dec. 31. 
"I'd like Congress to lay out what should be done," Thomas said. 
The deadline--originally set for 1977, and twice postponed-­will find about 62 cities and A lack of security is the basis behind a $1 million lawsuit filed by a University of California-Santa Barbara student against the school after she was raped by several mem­bers of the football team. The suit claims the university failed to provide for the victim's safety and security. She's also suing the five men involved, the UCSB chancellor, and several other school officials. -National On­Campus Report 
A helicopter recently got a parking ticket. Army recruiters regularly land helicopters on the Embry-Riddly Aeronautical Univer­sity campus when they come to recruit stu­dents. But they went too far the last time they visited. It seems their chopper took up several precious parking spots in an already overcrowded lot. Campus police officers didn't care who the machine belonged to and slapped a ticket on it for violating parking regulations. -National On-Campus Report 
Apartheid protesters were convicted at the University of Texas. A jury required only 90 minutes of deliberation, after a week of testimony, to convict 11 of 16 demonstrators on charges of disruptive ac­tivity. The protesters last year briefly took over the school president's office, barricaded the doors, and presented a letter demanding divestiture from companies dealing with South Africa. Those convicted face a fine and possible jail time. -National On-Campus Report 
rural counties out of compli­ance for ozone, the smog con­stituent that makes breathing difficult, and 65 violating the standard for carbon monoxide, which lessens the blood's oxygen-carrying capacity. 
Twenty-three cities are on both lists. The 26 largest metropolitan areas are on one or the other. 
Thomas said "a handful, maybe 10" cities, including New York, Denver and Los An­geles, probably would have to restrict auto use to meet the standards. 
That could be done, he sug­gested, "by measures like ride­sharing and car pools and mass transit." 
Thomas' policy, announced for public comment before adoption early next year, calls for all states to submit new pol­lution control plans for non­compliance areas in the next two years. 



Your Group and 


CARDINAL 
Cl 'ARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
~···············~~················~ 
iKathy! Happy '19th" on the 19th!~ 
* * 
~ Have a wonderful : 
* * 

:birthday! 
*
* 

: We love 
* 
you
*
*
* 


:* darling! * 

:Mom & Bil . * 
\ ..................................: 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch

A dog's life 
Kelly, a golden retriever, waits for her owner, Jennifer Gillis, outside of Haggar Hall. Kelly might be mistaken for a giant squirrel by some. 
Bishops to raise funds for poor, elderly nuns 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -America's Roman Catholic bishops voted Tuesday to raise funds to aid thousands of the nuns who taught young Catholics in past decades and now have grown old with little or no money to live on. 
"It's a matter of justice, not merely of a matter of charity," Bishop Michael Sheehan of Lubbock, Texas, said before the National Conference of Catholic Bishops voted 156-10 to launch the national fund­raising drive. 
Numerous other bishops made similar comments, all praising the work of the nuns in parochial schools, hospitals and other ministries. Several bishops emphasized the word "justice," noting that women in Catholic religious orders have traditionally worked for low wages and that this fact has contributed to their current problems. 
Bishop John McGann of Rockville Centre, N.Y., head of a committee sponsoring the proposal, declined to specify a goal for the fund-raising drive, which will focus on national col­lections in Catholic churches in each of the next 10 years. 
McGann noted that an ac­counting firm estimated the eventual need might reach $2.5 billion, even assuming the sale of $1 billion in religious orders' land and buildings, including schools, residences and semi­naries. He and other bishops said said no one expects the drive to raise anywhere near that much. 
McGann's committee, which includes representatives of re­ligious orders of nuns and brot­hers as well as the bishops, said a 1985 estimate indicated there were 44,000 nuns and 3,600 brot­hers over the age of 70 at that time. 
Some belong to orders that are relatively well-to-do. But others were described as in desperate straits, with large and growing numbers of older members at the same time relatively few young women are joining to take their places and help support them. 
Before voting, the bishops debated the subject at length. But their disagreements were on such matters as when the collection should be held and how the money should be par­celed out, not on whether the drive was necessary. 
Several bishops said religi· ous orders that have substan­tial wealth should be asked to join the effort to help im­poverished orders. McGann said that would be done. 


are better with 
---~-----~------------~ 
page 6 


securitv• beat 
Monday, November 16 
9:20 a.m. A University employee found a set of keys in front of Sorin Hall. The keys were turned into Se­curity. 
11:55 a.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his clothes and detergent from the Badin Laundry. His loss is estimated at $42. 
3:40p.m. A Dillon Hall resident re­ported that he lost his camera on Sat­urday November 14 in the Stadium. 
4:15p.m. A resident of Fisher Hall reported losing his wallet in the area of the Library and Computei"!Math Building. His loss is estimated at $15. 
5:25p.m. A Lewis Hall resident re­ported that she lost her keys in her dorm's lobby on Sunday November 15. 
7:20p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported the theft of his wallet from the racquetball courts in the Joyce ACC. His loss is estimated at $52. 
11:20 p.m. A Saint Mary's student reported that she lost her wallet on Saturday November 14 in Blue field. Her loss is set at $72.50. 
Tuesday, November 17 
8:45a.m. Security cited a man for reckless driving on Juniper Road. This case is being forwarded to the Prosecuter's Office for charges of habitual traffic offenses. 
The Observer 


The Observer I Suzanne Poch

LaFortune Lounging 
Students relax outside of the junior class offices in LaFortune Student Center, waiting to sign-up for the ski trip on Jan. 21, 22 and 23. This line was longer at times than the one for basketball tickets. Many spots are still available, and sign-ups continue Thursday from 3 to 4 p.m. 





Negotiators discuss deficit 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON White House officials and congres­sionalleaders, pledging to con­clude a deficit-cutting deal this week, met into the night Tues­day, but agreement remained elusive. 
"We have no choice but to put it together," said Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, chairman of the Senate Finance Commit­tee. "We have to show that the president and Congress can work together. Otherwise, the psychological fallout on the fin­ancial markets will be very bad," 
White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker said everybody 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
that 2000 students who wanted to go were not able to get tick­ets. 
Under the present policy, stu­dents are never allocated more than five percent of the tickets the University receives for away games, said Daley. 
Mike Thomas of Morissey Hall proposed a new program of selling books by computer print-out. As a possible future HPC service project, it could save sellers and buyers of books time and money, ex­plained Thomas. 
To advertise books, students would fill out a computer form with their name, phone number and the title of their book or books. The computer print-out containing this information would then be placed in the mailboxes of all on-campus stu­dents, said Thomas. 
wanted to agree, and even though it was "sort of a moving target, and (sometimes) it seems like it recedes," success was "certainly a possibility." 
Between closed-door talks, House and Senate leaders met privately with President Reagan and White House offi­cials to discuss the troubles. The goal is to reduce the deficit for fiscal 1988, the year that began Oct. 1, by at least $23 billion, in order to avert auto­matic spending cuts under the Gramm-Rudman law. 
"The president is, of course, disappointed that we don't have an agreement yet," said White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater. "He wants one very badly and feels that we have bent over backwards to compromise and be construc­tive, and we have not had quite that same sense of cooperation from the Democrats." 
With the two sides searching for about $2 billion more in spending cuts, White House budget director James Miller suggested on Tuesday trim­ming domestic programs, in­cluding child nutrition, Medicaid, and food stamps. Democratic lawmakers said the proposals were unaccepta­ble, according to people familiar with the talks. 
NEED A BIRTHDAY CAKE (or) FRESH BAKED GOODS? The Notre Dame Student Cake Service can help you. 
In cooperation with the Country Bake Shop of  Simply fill out the below order form  
South Bend, we'll deliver fresh baked goods  & mail to:  
right to your door.  P.D. Box 191  

Please make check payable to N.D. Student ca~; N.D., ln. 46556 Service and be sure to Include the message you want (don't use campus mail) on the cake. call 283-2359 todayl 
Delivery Date Sender's Name 
111111111111111111111111111111 
& Phone 
111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Reclplenfs Name & Address . 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IH 
Cakes:slzes: &"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.011 chocolate half sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(8" only) CHEESECAKES(&"): plain $10.50 Icing: white w/ fruit $12.50 --chocolate(add 1.50) BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen 
PARTY KIT: $2.50-lncludes plates Doughnuts: Variety Box forks, napkins, candles, $4.50 per dozen & a knife 


CHIMES ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
THE SAINT MARY'S LITERARY MAGAZINE IS NOW ACCEPTING: 
POEMS PLAYS SHORT STORIES 
SUBMIT TO CHIMES, 303 MADELEVA HALL 
Wednesday, November 18, 1987 

Iraq raids nuclear plant; 
Iran says 11 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Iraqi warplanes raided an Iranian nuclear power plant Tuesday, killing 11 people, and an Iranian nuclear official claimed the attack could lead to another Chernobyl, Iranian news reports said. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, moni­tored in Cyprus, quoted energy official Reza Amrollahi as saying the plant contained nu­clear material. 
He said the raid might lead to "the same transfrontier ra­dioactive release and radiological consequences as the Chernobyl nuclear acci­dent," IRNA said. 
Iraq did not announce that it had bombed the plant and there 

were killed 
was no independent confirma­tion of the attack. Iraq has raided the plant at least five times since 1984. 
Amrollahi, president of Iran's Atomic Energy Organi­zation, sent an "urgent protest note" to Hans Blix, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, Austria, IRNA re­ported. 
He asked Blix to rush a team of experts to the scene to mon­itor the effects of the raid, the agency said. 
IRNA reported the air strike on the nuclear plant and ac­cused Iraq of violating "in­ternational conventions." 
The 7-year-old war has recently heated up, with Iran threatening a major assault on Iraq. 




"We've gottile CODJpetifioD 

The Fresh Alternative is even fresher with our oven-fresh sub rolls, baked on the premises. So don't settle for styrofood served on styrobuns. Come up to Subway where the sandwiches and salads are always fresh and delicious. 
~.....l..~J...~..,..~~~!!!._III!Ip·]~J 
Save $$$ by using these coupons at Subway Sandwiches and Salads located just north of Ironwood on S.R. 23. Ph. 277-7744 
$1.00 OFF FOOTLONG SEAFOOD & CRAB $1.00 off a regular footlong Seafood and Crab sand­wich. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 

$10.00 OFF SIX FOOT PARTY SUB $10.00 off a Subway six·foot party sub. Please order 48 hours in advance. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 

$1.00 OFF FOOTLONG BMT OR CLUB $1.00 off a regular footlong Subway BMT or Club sandwich. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 



Viewpoint
Wednesday, November 18, 1987 
A letter to a far away brother 
The following is part of a continuing realize after the fact, the things we series from the Justice Education should have done or said? group at Saint Mary's. To realize the power in one's hands, 
I feel as though I write to a person their ability for change, for helping and whom I do not know; leading a life I healing, for prayer, for loving and' can not comprehend; that deals with working; the sensitivity of hands, their speaking another language in hopes ~o gentle nature and warmth. Coarse communicate enough to understand m hands, from hard work soiled in pur­what ways one can help another. A life suits of building wooden walls where which involves opening one's home, once frozen rain pelted through slats mind and heart to a community between boards or placing stones then desperately needing assistance which boards for floor where once there was is overwhelming in scope and demand solely earth. Helping other hands in <to say the least in time, patience and commitment to community, together strength). A life committed to teaching for better, combining soil in a hand­the unruly and ministering to the needy shake of accomplishment or a hug of and even at times the dead--dressing a understanding. Or clean hands joined friend with whom sharing, concern and in prayer around a table of thanks of committment has passed--only to another day of sharing, working and realize the frailty of human life and growing. senselessness of death. I weep in sad­ness with and for a brother I do not They hold within them the unseen, know. power to pick and choose paths and di­
rections. Opening doors, forming ourSuzanne Moser own lives by the chain of hands we shake, or the signing of contracts and guest column bills. Signatures unique to each, as unique as the fingerprints pushing pens, writing letters that tell the story 
I look upon the lines of my tender of our choices. Different, our lives, hands and ask "what have I done? " yours and mine by the print we have From day to day they travel from table left behind on things and persons we to mouth--too many times; they button have touched. and zip clothes--too many possessed with too much importance; they prop The night is late as you put on the up a head tired from late nights--too shoe and tie the laces of your friend (as few in study; they wipe away tears-of you once tied mine), beaten contin­selfishness and fear; and hug self for uously by her grandson until death warmth--less frequent around others in relieved her pain. The shoes she put on comfort; or are shoved into pockets when you brought her communion on along with some spare change and an Sundays and the same that she wore odd piece of gum. back from the hospital where you 
Twenty one year old hands, trem­helped her. Your tying signature is the bling ftt the thought of future, w~ile last touch between you, the end of an­looking back at four years of hme other day, the closing of another book, largely wasted. Not enough in walking another sad story. around the beauty of nature and archi­It is late here too, Kevin, as I shoe tecture here; barely taking advantage myself library bound. The books I read of the great minds giving lectures in and write are very different but also spare time for our ben~fit. or ?f books sad as I look back at could haves and filled with wisdom and ms1ght m abun­should haves. Late but not too late, I dance on shelves, left untouched, un­think, because of the ability and power opened. Speaking so many w?rds, but to change things contained within these not saying enough of those thmgs that hands. matter, avoiding challenge or con­frontation that might involve. We com­Suzanne Moser is a senior Govern­plain of work loads and demands in our ment/Sociology ·major writing for the overburdened lives while we deafen Justice Education Communications ourselves to real problems. Why do we Group at Saint Mary's. 
Doonesbury  
0  
0 0 0  WHOA... SV!!E YOU ARE.' BeTTER.. FIN/? 50Ml3PLAC& TO PRIJPANCHOR ...  

11-lf 
P.O. Box Q 
requirements by University courses, independent study, or some other al­
Education suffers 
ternative. How many students can honestly say their money was best

in required courses 
spent on the course they selected? Would not many students prefer to buy 
Dear Editor: 

several books, read and study on their 
Lately I have begun to think about own, and perhaps hire a private tutor? 
the value of various courses, especially All of this, and maybe more, could be 
the University's required courses. The done for the cost of one courses at this 
University apparently believes that University. courses in philosophy, theology, En­Perhaps, though, this question should 
glish, and other required areas of study 
ultimately be left up to the professor.
will improve the life and mind of the As a teaaher of a course commonlystudent. Personally, I could not be more taken as a requirement, some reflec­
in favor of a broad education. Yet, after tion is necessary. While it is impossible 
taking some of these requirements, I to please everyone all the time, it must express my displeasure. 
should not be so difficult for the profes­
Consider for a moment the following sor to make the claim that his students 
analysis: The average student takes 10 will be better off and that their money 
courses per year. Ifyou divide the price was definitely well spent.
of tuition among these courses, each course costs approximately $800. Obvi­Bill Harlan ously there are other needs that draw Dillon Hall from the money generated by tuition, Nov. 11, 1987 but this is not the issue. Rather, it is important to realize that, for each stu­dent, in each course, several hundreds Racist activities of dollars are spent and additional 
money is spent on books. stiII present at N D 
Understanding this, I wonder how many students believe their money is Dear Editor: well spent. I am not asking if a partic­To the inebriated Notre Dame stu­ular course was interesting, but I dents standing in the War Memorial merely want to know is the student is fountain Sunday night yelling "give me better off as a person. This need not a nigger beat," and to those ~tandil'l:g even be as a result of the subject mat­around laughing and condomng th1s ter, but because of the experience at­racist activity: I would like to say thank tained in the course. you for adding another Notre Daf!le ~o­
Perhaps my viewpoint is best sup­ment to my experience as a mmor1ty ported by proposing an alternate sys­at this university. tem for the University. Suppose, at the 
Rosalind M. Walker

outset, the University merely estab­
Badin Hall

lished a list of studies required for a 
Nov. 16, 1987

degree. The student could fulfill these 

Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in View­point. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.0. Box Q, View­point Department, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the Day 
IJI4MN

HEYIFINV HOME/e55. 7Ht'lALIAJ4Y5
your<O/J/N 
TAK&'IH& 

"The greatest minds are capa­
DEI), JACK! GOO/} 5POT5. 
0 

ble of the greatest vices as well as the greatest virtues." 
Rene Descartes Discourse on Method 


Editorial Board Operations Board



Ihe Observer 
EdltOr·m-Chiel. ... Kev1n Becker Busmess Manager ........... Bnan Murray Managmg Editor .. Mark Pankowskr Advert1smg Des1gn Manager .......... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor Chns Bednarski Advertlsmg Manager Melinda Chapleau News Editor .. J1m A1ley Production Manager ..... Melissa Warnke Viewpomt Editor Chns Murphy Pro1ects Manager. . . Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un~verSIIy of 
Sports Editor . Denn~s Comgan Systems Manager ..... Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College It does not necessanly reflect the pollc•es of 
Accent Editor . M1chael Naughton Controller ......... Tracy Schindele
the adm1nostrat1on of Bither •nst1tut1on The News IS reported as accurately and ObjeCtively as 
Samt Ma,y·s Ed1tor Sandy Cenmele Graph1c Arts Manager ........ Laura Stanton
poss•bte Uns•gned ed1tonals represent the op1n10n of the maJOrity of the Editorial Board 
Photo Editor J1m Carroll
Commentanes. leners and the lns•de Column present the v1ews of the~r authors Column space 1S avaotable to all members of the school commun1ty, and the free express1on of varying op1n1ons 
Founded November 3, 1988
on campus. through leners. •s encouraged. 


Accent

page 8 Wednesday, November 18, 1987 
'New' courses strange yet practical 
t's registration time onI campus again, time to sign up for the classes you'll be taking next semester. Next se­mester at this time things won't be quite the same. That's be­cause the Administration, In keeping with Its usual benevolent and paternal stance, has been looking out for your best interests, and they've decided to Introduce some new classes for the 1988 fall semester. 
course is to teach the student how to deal with the anxiety Incurred by walking Into a crowded bar with a crummy ID. Grades will be taken mainly from pop quizzes In which ran­dom students will be forced to give their social security num­bers and home addresses on command. Trick questions such as "Is this really a picture of you?" and "You're kidding. right?" will also be asked. Re­quired texts Include Edward's 

KrlsMurphy 
Altered 
These new classes will be more relevant to the life of the college student. and their pur­pose will be to give the student a deeper Insight Into his or her role In the Notre Dame family. What follows is only a sample of these new and more relevant courses. 
Sociology 348: Introduction to Confusion 
The purpose of this class is to lead the student to a better understanding of the role of confusion In his or her life. Students will be asked to ex­plain concepts that are way over their heads and then forced to write papers on them. Grades will then be given, but not explained. Teachers will answer questions unless they don't feel like it. and the class will be held In a different room every day. Anyone who com­plains will be shot. Required texts will be announced later. Maybe. 
Psychology 240: Advanced Flirting 
This course will attempt to move beyond the classic, but highly Ineffective, Notre Dame pick-up lines such as "What's your major?". New techniques such as blatant staring and highly suggestive comments will be attempted, first In lab and later on a class field trip to Bridget's. Anyone who fails to score on this field trip will au­tomatically fall. Two papers will be assigned, one on beer goggles and another on how to avoid the other person. This course may be taken In con­junction with Psych 280: Inter­mediate Teasing. 
Psychology 380: Modem Fake ID's The main purpose of this 
Calvin and Hobbes 
BLE:.CCIU~! \-\OW L~ W.'E 
-n-IOSE 00 GJ~W>-. '('t£? 
KISSit-IG ~ -n-1\S 1'~\WI\ 
ONL'I I..ASTS ~ 00\lR! 

classic "The Agony of Defeat: Having Your Fake ID Taken Away" and the recently pub­lished "No Officer, That's How I Looked Before Plastic Surgery." 
PLS 290: Introduction to Mellowness 
This course will attempt to mellow out everyone involved. At the beginning of the semes­ter class will meet twice a week, and a relatively laid back discussion will ensue. A paper will be assigned and a test will be taken, but neither will be collected. Near mldsemester, class meetings will be cut back to once a week and discussions will slow down, centering mainly on questions such as "What's for dinner?" and "Que Pasa?." By the end of the se­mester students will be encour­aged to stay home and lie on the carpet. Required texts in­clude "Are You Mellow Or Just Dead?" Prerequisite: PLS 190: Modern American Laziness 
English 430: Literature of Nastiness 
Really nasty books by really 

cruel authors will constitute the 
majority of this course's materi­
al. Classics such as "''m OK. 
You're a Rancid Scumbag", 
"Meln Kampf" and "Portrait of a 
Skinny, Geeky Irish Kid as a 
Young Man" will be read and 
discussed. Students will be en­
couraged to express their 
opinions through physical vio­·lence, and insults will be graded according to how hard the insulted ·person cries. Papers will be assigned and then read in front of the class and laughed at. 
Sociology 100: Introduction 

to Alcoholism 
This course is open only to 

freshmen and will attempt to 
teach the little buggers how to 
handle their liquor. Topics such as "The Beer Run", "Introduc­tion to Mixed Drinks" and "Passing Out: Where and When To Do It" will be addressed in the course of the semester. Obnoxiousness will be tolerated and even encouraged, so freshmen have nothing to worry about. A field trip off­campus is scheduled late In the semester for those who have made enough progress to find their way home after the party. 
Criminology..300: Inter­mediate Police Brutality 
Members of the South Bend Police Force have been so kind to donate their time to the Uni­versity In an effort to better relations with the student body. Topics will include "skull bus­tin"' and "butt kickin"' as well as 'just plain yellin' and screamin"' and why these methods are so effective at breaking up student parties. The importance of savage dogs and breathalyzers will also be examined. The eternal question 
Bill Watterson 
THER£.'5 f>.. CO\\\o.IEC.TION \-\ERE, I J\JST KNOW II. 

"Don't the South Bend Police have anything better to do?" will not be asked under any circumstances. 
Psychology 580: Applied Snottiness 
This Is a graduate course for students who have demon­strated their ability to be spoiled, stuck-up, snotty, and generally obnoxious in regard to other people and the world in general. Intensive labs will be held to promote bragging about how much money you have and being totally apat­hetic about anyone but your­self. Everyone will get A's, be­cause if they don't. they'll moan to their parents and the University will lose impor;tant donations. Enrollment limited to those who moan and rag the loudest. 
History 440: Stress Seminar 
The purpose of this course will be to totally freak out everyone involved. It's that simple. If you think you worry a lot now, sign up for this class and realize how good you had it. We won't even tell you what the class is about. That should give you something to think about. For all you know it could be an EE course. And guess what? We're going to make it required! Ha! Prerequis­tites: History 20 1: Spaz Semi­nar. 



WVFI TOP TEN 
1. 
Instant Club Hit The Dead Milkmen 

2. 
Only Love The BoDeans 


3. 
Everything's Explbdin' The Flaming Ups 

4. 
Stop ·Me if You Think You've Heard This One Before The Smiths 

5. 
Rain in the Summertime The Alarm 


6. 
Deep & Wide & Tall Aztec Camera 

7. 
Fallen Angel Robbie Robertson 

8. 
Beautiful Truth The Proclaimers 


9. Never Let Me Down Again D· t>eche Mode 
10. Peace Train 10.000 Maniac!. 
This chart compiled from the playllsts of WVFI-AM640 as of Nov. 17 




Business
Wednesday, November 18, 1987 
page 9 

Regulations, expenses and ads all part of running food sales 
by RENEE GAU and JULIE CASKO Business Writers 
Editor's Note: This is the first in a series of three arti­cles investigating the food sales operations in six wo­men's and six men's dorms. 
When most people think of food sales they think of a good excuse for a study break, a place both to so­cialize with friends and to satisfy their late night munchies. Most people do not realize, however, that behind the food counter is a genuine business enterprise, the prod­uct of many arduous hours given by managers and employees. And, as with any business, they keep inven­tories, pay bills, create sales and specials, earn revenue and encounter regulations. 
The regulations spring from a history of problems sur­rounding food sales. 
About five years ago, said Michael McCauslin, director of the Department of Envi­ronmental Health and Safety, the sanitarium found many plumbing and electrical prob­lems in a number of the dorms. Some food sales, for example, would use a single outlet to plug in a microwave oven, a small pizza oven and a freezer. This overload created an electrical fire haz­ard. 
Since then, both the Univer­sity and the dorms have taken steps to improve this situation by funding renova­tions of the basements. 
The University also publishes a pamphlet delineating the rules for "a safe operation of Residence Hall Food Sales." Among the variety of guidelines, they forbid such things as selling canned or home prepared food and the use of grills, griddles or deep fat fryers. Also, food sales managers cannot remodel of make addi­tions of equipment (ie. freezers, ovens) without the approval of the Department of Health and Safety. To in­sure that managers uphold these regulations, the Univer­sity conducts semester in­spections. 
These regulations, however, do not solve all of the prob­lems. One of the guidelines calls for "adequate refrigera-, tion and freezer storage space" and yet the food sales in Pangborn, St. Ed's and Lyons have just enough room for one decent size refrigerator. 
With these problems it is obviously difficult to run a competitive business which can serve the needs of the students. And yet the managers find ways to com­promise and cut corners. Beth Rosa, co-manager of Lyons Hall Food Sales, sees it as an educational entrepreneural experience. "Working in Lyon's Food Sales has become a learning process in both finance and accounting," she said. 
Chuck Bower of Grace Food Sales sees it as a chance to develop managerial skills while contributing to the im­provement of the dorm. "Managing <Grace Food Sales) has been a great expe­rience," he said. 
The University and the dorm rectors do protect the food sales operations. For example, if managers run a food sales into debt, as hap­pened at Morrissey's last year, the dorm will undoubt­edly help start operations anew. 
Managers do not have "ul­timate" responsibilities like real business managers. They have the freedom to make mistakes, learn from them and still be assured of a con­tinuing business. Also, unlike a fully organized enterprise, dorm food sales honor either very simplified business con­tracts or verbal contracts and none file tax forms. 
"Food sales is a very, very small scale business but it is easy to see from running it how a large-scale business would work," says Nolene Morrissey, co-manager of Farley Food Sales. Although the goal of all food sales is to maximize profit, the ability to do so is limited by the dorm's size, location and equipment. Each food sales manager is presented with problems arising from the unique situa­tions at each dorm. 
Morrissey finds it hard to get Farley residents to pur­chase from food sales. "A lot of the girls here are health conscious. Our biggest seller is Diet Coke," she said. 
Competition is also a prob­lem facing many of the smaller, centrally located dorms. St. Ed's Food Sales mangers, Scott Lechner and Greg Buelock, must contend with competition from the nearby Huddle. 
The majority of managers do not promote their food sales ouside of the dorm. "Advertising in the dorms," however, "is very impor­tant," said Ed Kelly, co­owner of Holy Cross' fondly 
. named 'Pigpen' food sales. Kelly jokes that one technique is to specialize in female employees. "The girls lure guys down." he said. 
Many managers have found that even with cutting prices, advertising and offering spe­cials, profits are not easy to come by. Revenue generated from sales sometimes just barely covers costs. 
The biggest cost is inven­tory. Many managers pur­chase their food from dis­tributors who offer lower prices and less hassle. Other major costs are employee wages and rent. Rent varies from dorm to dorm, with some having none to others paying $750 per semester for equipment and space. 
Because some food sales managers are under contract with their dorms and other are not, there is a difference in how profits must be dis­tributed. Some managers, such as St. Ed's and Walsh's receive all the profit, while others such as Dillon's, Howard's and B.P.'s are obligated to share the· profit with the dorm Hall Council. 
The opportunity to make a profit and gain practical busi­ness experience are the two major incentives for students to undertake the operation of dorm food sales. Of course, as Maria Gonzalez, manager of P.E. Food Sales, admits, "It will look good on a resume!'' 

A Survey of Foodsales Facts & Stats 
~ ....... c
0 ,. ..... .._ "2 ~ .8 _rn 

c 
0 o ~ .E 0> -o =o ~ ~ o o UJ UJ 
0 5
~ I ~ ~ o._ o._ ~ 
ca 


Rent 
Number Employed 
Open (hours/wk) 
Gross Sales (per day) 
Dorm Shares 
$150 $200 $500 $25 $300 $750 $300 ;sem /mth -­/sem -/mth /mth /sem -­/sem -­ 
25 16 7 19 5 (25 10 (5 11 3 9 4 6 Slbs) Slbs)  
15 23 20 28 11 24 34 24 11.5 19 5 23  
S55 $200 $60 $625 $125 $30 $100 $125 $90 sao $60 $70  
No No Yes Yes No Yes Yes No • No No No No fl~~~~~--L-~L-~L__J___J___J__~--~--~--~~of 

• If exceeds SS.(XX) profit 
An 
600 
Explosion of Trading 
400 shares traded) 
(in millions of 
10/ 5 160 ~~~-+­
10/ 7 170 10/12 145 1----4---+---1­10/14 205 
10/19 605 1----l---1-­10/21 450 10/26 310 10/28 280 111 2 180 
Cheapest air fares to the Cotton Bowl 
:J That Cotton-pickin' selection committee has the Irish venturing to Dallas for New Year's Day. As a service to our readers, we are providing air fare prices to Dallas, and hotel information for the Dallas-Fort Worth area. 
Travelers must keep in mind that the availability of seats and times is limited due to the holiday season. In most cases, one has 24 hours to buy the ticket after making a reservation. All prices include round-trip airfare. 
American, Braniff, and United have flights available from Chicago, New York and Los Angeles leaving Wednesday, Dec. 30, and returning Jan. 3. American has the lowest fares: from O'Hare for $227, LaGuardia $218, LAX $238. United checks in with $297, $268 and $328, respectively. Braniff's same flights cost $327, $358 and $378. 
0 
Wholihan and 
Murray
~·· 
Business Briefs 


Northwest Orient has competitive prices if you are willing to leave on New Year's Eve and return Monday the fourth. Bowl fans can fly from Chicago for $227, New York for $198 and Los Angeles for only $218. 
Eastern's flight from Chicago costs $297. An Eastern traveler can depart on December 30 and return on January 4. 
Delta has the lowest Chicago-Dallas fare for Wednesday­Sunday travelers. This flight will only set you back $207. However, to obtain Delta's best LaGuardia and LAX fares, Irish fans can leave Wednesday, but must return Monday. The New York flight costs $228. The L.A. fare is $288. 
Local Irish fans can fly Piedmont from South Bend to Dal­las for $258. There are three flights leaving South Bend Wed­nesday, with a return on Monday the fourth. 
There are still plenty of hotel rooms available for New Year's weekend. Ramada Inn's Arlington location rents four­person rooms for $52 a night. 
Comfort Inns' nearest location is in Garland, about 15 miles from downtown Dallas. Four-person rooms will go for $54 per night. 
The Irving Sheraton consists of rooms with king-size beds, with a limit of two people per room. The rates are $75 or $59 a night. 
Quality Inn has rooms available at its Irving location for $52 a night. The rate of these four-person rooms drops to $35 per night after January 1. u Looks like we'll be seeing less of Spuds MacKenzie in the future. 
Critics have attacked Anheuser-Busch for selling Spuds shirts, posters and stuffed dolls. The critics maintain that through selling these products Anheuser-Busch is promoting beer drinking to children. 
According to a source close to Anheuser-Busch, the com­pany is planning on scaling back the use of Spuds to promote Bud Light beer. This decision is not completely due to Spud's critics however. Anheuser-Busch also believes that the dog's appeal may also be waining. u The Last Word-Charlie York, a bond trader with Salomon Brothers, commenting on getting a job in the se­curities industry: "I'll be honest with you. There's the pre­October 19th Market and the post-October 19th Market, and you have to be realistic about your chances in this business right now." I guess this means that these writers will be wearing name tags and will be uttering, "Would you like fries with that?" at their jobs next year. 
-
Wednesday, November 18, 1987 
page 10 
The Observer 

n.a.-..Notre Dune offlc:e, located on the thlnl floof of Lafortune Stu­ct.nt c.nt. -=cepta claulfled .m.tlatng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Mondlly through Frtcia,. 111e a.-..s.1nt Mery'8 offlce, located on the thlnl floor of tt.ggerCollge Cent•, .cc:ept. c1aUifleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday througfl Friday. DMdllne for nut-day claultledsls 3 p.m. All claulfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, el~ In pen1011 or by mall. The charge Is 10 cent. per five c:Mnr:ter8 ~ dlly. 

NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
TYPINGWORO PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 
Wordprocesslng· Typing 272-8827 
TYPING 277-8131 or 237-1849 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
NEED RIDE TO PrrTSBURGH OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL KEVIN AT 2a. 
5303. ·----------·· 
Holiday Jobs -N.D. & S.M.C. Take home a resume to help wKh holiday job-search. Office or phone appointments··$25-$40. KEY CAREER SERVICES ··282-1697. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIOR CHRISTMAS FORMAL FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4 AVOID THE RUSH AND SHOP NOW FOR YOUR DATESIIIIIIIIIIIIII THAT'S THE WEEKEND AFTER TURKEY BREAK. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
It is declared that the passpon No. 670678 issued by People's Republic of China is abolished. 


LOST/FOUND 
FOUND:Camp Beverly Hills sunglasses in the Engineering building. Call Siobhan at 288·5229. 
LOST··I LOST MY ROYAL BLUE VUAR· NETS SATURDAY AT THE 'BAMA GAME. THESE SUNGLASSES HAVE SERIOUS SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ME, SO I DEFINITELY WILL MAKE IT WORTH YOUR WHILE IF YOU CALL AMY AT £271 ·0575 TO RETURN THEM. SENIMENTALL Y I WILL BE BETIER OFF, WHILE MONETARILY $$$$$$$$$$ YOU'LL BE MUCH BET· TER OFFII PLEASE CALL AMY AT £271·0575. 
LOST: NOTRE DAME CLASS RING: WTS INITIALS INSCRIBED REWARD OFFERED PLEASE CALL 271 -0480 
LOST: BLUE O.P. WALLET CONTAIN· lNG DRIVER"$ LICENSE OF TIM GRIEVE AND AROUND $40 SOMETIME SAURDAY 11114. IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT x3111. 
LOST(?):MEN'S GOLD SEIKO WATCH. NOV. 12, 4:Q0-6:30 PM, BETWEEN DIL· LON AND ACC COURT 1. BELIEVE TO HAVE BEEN "BORROWED" FROM JACKET ON COURT 1. GRADUATION GIFT: PLEASE RETURN! REWARD I NO ?'S ASKED. MATI X1629. 
LOST: Two jackets ware lost (or taken) Saturday !rom a tailgater behind the backstop on Green Field. One was white with blue sleeves and the other was dark grey with a red lining. ~ you happened to pick either of them up, please call Jim at 1459. 
MISSING: My friend came In from out of town and someone took his size 46 denim coat from the coat room at Senior Bar. If you have it please call me so I can get It back to him and restore NO's good name. Mike 271 ·0573. 
BLUE BACKPACK LOST FRIDAY, SOUTH DINING HALL. LAW BOOKS. CALL JOEL 234-9358. 
LOST: AQUA-MARINE WITH DIAMOND RING & AMETHYST ENGAGEMENT RING BY THE STADIUM ON SUNDAY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL HEATHER 284·5182. 
ATIENTIONIIIIIII HELPIIIIII 
PLEASEIIIIII •••••••• ATIENTIONIII MY BLACK LEATHER JACKET WENT HOME WITH SOMEONE ELSE FROM AN OFF-CAMPUS PARTY FRIDAY NOV. 13.1LOVETHISJACKETirrWAS A GIFT FROM VERY SPECIAL PEOPLE. I MUST HAVE IT BACK· PLEASEIIIII IF YOU HAVE THE JACKET, CALL ME: LIZ £288-9016. THANK YOUIIIIII 
HELP I Whoever accidently picked up my backpack from South Dining Hell Friday at lunch--my life depends on Its return. It's dark purple. Hfound please call liz at 2521 

LOST CAMERA CANON SURE SHOT I MAY HAVE LEFT IT ON NO SHUTTLE THURS. 111'12. IF YOU SAW IT OR HAVE IT, I REALLY NEED IT BACKIII IT HAD ALMOST A FULL ROLL OF FILM IN ITI PLEASE CALL NINA AT X4570 
................................................................ 
LOST: RED RIMMED FOSTER GRANTS-BEFORE,DURING,MAYBE EVEN AFTER 'BAMA GAME? I DON'T KNOW, I DON'T EVEN REMEMBER THE GAMEl X4333 
................................................................ 
LOST: ORANGE NERF BALL DURING 'BAMA GAME. GIVE IT BACKI IT WAS A GIFT FROM MY 98 YEAR OLD GRANDMOTHER & SHE'LL BEAT THE HELL OUT OF ME IF SHE FINDS OUT I LOST rrt X4333 
FOUND--Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance. Mon. pm. on South Quad by the center bushes across !rom KofC. Steve x4772 
.___FO_R_R_ENT_~I 
Lease this 2BR apanment now for spring semester and move in anytime. $ 325otno. includes utilities. Call 232-9239. 
Now showing for IY1AI8-&'1A!9 lease. 6BR, 2 bath house on bus line. Call 232· 9239. 
I AM SUBLEASING MY APARTMENT LOCATED AT 820 NOTRE DAME AV.. IF INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL XAVIER AT 288-8923. 
UTILE MIS···HAPPY 21st BIRTHHOAY coming up soon ... Nov. 241111 

WANTED 

NEEDED: PRINTER; EXPERIENCED, PART·TIME EVENINGS. FOR A.B. DICK 360 PRESS AND BINDERY. HOURLY AND BONUS. CALL 289·6977. 
I NEED A RIDE HOME FOR THANKS­GIVING NEAR SENECA, ILLINOIS. IT'S SMALL, SO IF YOU'VE NEVER HEARD OF IT, IT'S BETWEEN JOLIET AND OT· TAWA WEST ON ROUTE 80. CALL KATHY AT 3590 IF YOU CAN HELP. 
WANTED: RIDER TO WISCONSIN 12-3 to 12-8. 272-4814. 
Help!I! I need ride lor TWO to: Waahlngton DC area for Thankaglvlng reunion at home! able to leave Tues. night or Wed. morning. Will share usual · Please call Susan at 283·3838 
I need a student to create a collage of old newspaper clippings. I will pay lhe right person handsomely. Need for Christmas. Call Debbie 277-3857 
Need ride to Downers Grove, IL for break. Mike 4607 
BALTIMOREIDC -NEED RIDE ·1222 
Mario LeMieux·s protege needs a ride to Pitt on Tue., 111141 To help, call AI at -3579. (Will split costs) 
RIDE NEEDED to MNPL$1ST. PAUL OR MADISON. Anytime after 9:30 AM Tues. Nov 24. Call 4016 ask for Jerry 
HELP! Ride needed to Harrisburg, PA for Thanksgiving. Can leave as early as Monday noon. Will share expenses. Call Mike 2037 or 2038. 
NEED ride to NEW ENGLAND for Thanksgiving break Will drive and pay $$ Call Steve 1725. 

HELPII I need • rtde to Penn State. Tie me to the roofrack or throw me In the trunk. I'll help pay expena•. Anne £2128 
NEED RIDE TO LOUISVILLE tor bnuk. can leave Mon. or Tu..., return Sun. cell Chrfe at £3810 will help wtth expenHa 
POST ADVERTISING MATERIALS ON CAMPUS. WRITE: COLLEGE 018­TRIBUTORS, 33 PEBBLEWOOD TRAIL, NAPERVILLE, IL 80540. 
DOES ANYONE HAVE 3 MIAMI TICK­ETS THEY"D LIKE TO UNLOAD? CALL JEANETTE AT 2646 OR 4693. 

FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: AIRLINE TICKET. WASH. DC to SOUTHBENO, JAN. 10. CHEAP. CALL 277-8264. 
PUPPIES Mother German Shepherd Must fill-out ownership application 
Call PETE at 239·5803 or 234-7 429 
MUST SELL ROUNDTRIP AIR. FROM SBN.-NYC LV.SAT. DEC19 RETURN SUN JAN11 £1791 
AIRLINE TIX TO NEWARK NEW JER· SEY T-GIVING BREAK. VERY CHEAP. CALL WOODY AT 1644 
FOR SALE PLANE TIX TO HOUSTON HOBBY DEC 17 CHEAP! GREG x1177 
Roundtrip ticket Southbend··LA Dec. 19· -Jan. 12 $275 call Laura at 1290. 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE: 1 WAY TICKET TO NEWARK N.J. FORM SO. BEND AIR· PORT ON WED. 11-25 P.M. CALL BILLY AT 283-3549 
................................................................ 
Round trip !rom Detroit Metro to San Fran $150 Leave Dec 26-Return Jan 4 277· 5230 
................................................................ 
'78 HONDA CIVIC AUTOMATIC, REG. GAS, LOW MILEAGE, NEW BATTERY. $1,000. CALL 272·1888 OR 287-4705. 


IL-_T_IC_K_ET_S____. 
................................................................ 
NEED GA'S FOR PENN STATE. 272· 
8306. 
N"iie·o··a"A:s··;;c;li··;;eN"N..sririi:·iii­
8306. 
................................................................ 
PENN ST TIX FOR SALE. 282·21177 
;;~;··s~i~~·;;·-sr,-;;~··a;;;·ii~-c~ii.iia3:;·iiii3 
for a deal that won't suck. 
;;;~;;;;·N·o:"P~~~·-si;i;··ii-~k~i~:·c~ii"eiii.~t 
x4364. 
I NEED PENN ST TIX MIKE 1741 
................................................................ 
NEED PENN ST. TIX's call 4793 


PERSONALS 
WAKE UPI 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
SURPRISE YOUR FRIENDS Make the careeo:.1ife choice that no one ever thought you would make. Opportu· nities for doing the work that you want to do. The Maryknoll Missioners: A con· temporary, professional response to the problems and people of the 20th and 21st Centuries by Roman Catholic Priests, Brothers and Sisters. CALL: Father Skip Flynn (31 2) 787-8496 
GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOOMC SUPPORT ·EDUCATION ·SOCIAL FOR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION, WRITE TO BOX 194; NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
WHY NOT ORDER A BIRTHDAY CAKE FOR THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE? CALL 283-2358 TODAY OR LOOK FOR WEDNESDAY'S AD 
REACH out to your friends abroad with a personal ad in FOREIGN RELATIONS" REACH NEWSLETIER only 50 cents for up to 20 wordsll buy as many 20-word blocks as you like II write your ad, put it WITH YOUR MONEY in an envelope In Mary Berge!O'Foreign Relations· mailbox and we'll do the rest. 
................................................................ 
2 persons in need of ride to Albany,NY for turkey break. Got room, call Mo 284­5409 
................................................................ 
................................ RIDE 
NEEDED TO ROCHESTER NY FOR THHANKSGIVING CALL JOHN 2236 
SPRING BREAK '88 SOUTH PADRE ISLAND Roundtrip Air -Chlcego -Harllngan March 12·19 -$280 $40 Non-Refundable depoalt due to: Tnavelmore Office In LaFortune by Nov. 25. Caeh or Local Check ONLY Monday• -8:30 am -7 pm Tueeday-Frtdey -8:30 am-4:45 PI.TI 
I NEED A RIDE TO EVANSVILLE, IN., FOR THANKSGIVING. IF YOU ARE GOING TO OR NEAR THE EVANSVILLE AREA, PLEASE CALL BETH, £2601. I WILL SHARE EXPEN· SIVES. 
TOM M.-Roses are red, Violets are blue, I'd like to spend more time with youl 
................................................................ 
I need a ride to Kansas City, MO or anywhere within a 75 mile radius. Will share expenses. Please call Theresa at 2738. 

To the guy wearing a baseball cap on the 11th floor of the library last Tuesday night (Nov 10th). You ware sitting on the floor of aisle OS 1 A8 to OS 36 19. I was the girl In the black coat and blue scarf staring at you !rom the elevators. Who are you? If interested, respond here.·RB 
POCKY Happy B·Day. Hopefully I can have a small pan of your special day. I'll promise dinner if you promise to bring "Dessert"! Love Always, A.C. 
I need a ride to Trenton area for Th. break. Call Ed at 283-1602. 
Nesd ride for two to northern N.J. for Thanksgiving. Will leave whenever. Only need ride there. Call Kevin £1496 
CILA I Mexico Project meeting Wednes· day, Novembar t8, 7:30p.m. at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. All welcome. Call Mike at x 1 049 or Dan at 271 ·0804 for questions. 
BUCKlE LOVES DUCKIE 
Dear Aunt Florence: Thank you for finally coming to see me this weekend I I REALLY appreciated having you here. Love always, MM 
MISSY LAHREN'S BIRTHDAY IS ON NOVEMBER 24th-get excited! Go to Senior Bar on Nov. 23 to celebrate the occasion! 
HELP!!! Need ride to Penn St. this waekendlll Can leave anytime. Will share expenses. Please call Sue X1451 !I! 
RESORT HOTELS, Crulullnea, Air· lin• & Amuaement Parka NOW ac­cepting eppllcatlona lor aummer joba, lnternahlpa and career poaltlona. For Information & application; write Na­tional Collegiate Recnutfon, P.O. Box 8074, Hilton Head leland, SC 29938. 
SPRINGBREAK '88 Campua -Sorority -Fraternity Rep Organize 7 Day Salling Charter• Ft. Laudardale to Bahamaa Commlaalon & Fnu Crulu Call Captain Wllllama 1850 SW 23rd Terrace, Ft. Lauderdale 33312 (305) 583-4202 Anytime 
HEY y·ALLI have 1 plane ticket lo Atlanta via Chicago O"Haire leaving Tuesday the 24th from Southbend Airport at 7:45 and arriving In Atlanta around 1 t :00. I have a lest at 8:00 Tuesday and need to sell it. K's a $300 flight, but call Matt D. at 1 1 55 and make an offer. 
The 11th Commandment: XI: Thou shall HATE MIAMII 
Do you want to maul Miami? Do you want to bill lhe 'Canes? Buy the official Hate Miami button:call 1310 to order one 
Ride Nesded to U.of Illinois THIS WEEKEND Nov.20-22 Will Pay Call Lynn "4297 ........................................ . HELP FOREIGN RELATIONS Give a peruvian a ride to Cleveland for Thanks· giving II Call Rosi at 3688 
ANYONE GOING TO BLOOMINGTON-IU THIS WEEKEND? CAN I HAVE A RIDE? ANGIE 284-5083 
PLEASE DRIVE ME HOME FOR TURKEY. CHICAGO OR WEST. 'BURBS PATTY SMC 4071. 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO THIS WEEKEND.CALL ROSIE SMC-C5201 
ECDC BOOK FAIR Early Childhood De­velopment Ctr, Havlcan Hall, SMC: 7:30am·5:15 pm,Nov. 18-25. Award win· ning, quality books for preschoolers-grade 6, also parenting & teacher books. This fundraiser will supply ECOC classrooms with additional library materials. Great for holiday gilts I Checks preferred. 
•••••ANGELA WIMMER"'""' Just re­member IF ALL ELSE FAILS .... Love, an admirer 
Kathy Rodman and Jim Guinan of Madonna House Apostolate will be at the Center for Social Concerns Wednesday, November 18, at 8:00 p.m. to discuss "Spiritual Real~ies and Social Concerns". Modanna House Apostolate is a group of committed lay persons and priests working with institutions by becoming in­volved in the everyday lives, concerns and cares of the poor. 
Welcome to the 20th decade KRISTIN CONNOLLY! I Happy Birthday and good luck in Phillyl 
OKAY MISSY ·YOU CAN STOP DROP­PING ALL THE STUPID HINTS ·WE KNOW WHEN YOUR BIRTHDAY IS · HAVING YOUR MOM CALL US FROM THE PHILLIPINES WAS UNNECES· SARY ·DON'T WORRY WE REMEM· BER OUR FRIENDS BIRTHOAY'SI CAN YOU SAY THE SAME? NAY NAY I SAVIll 
TO All THE MEN THAT MISSY LAH· REN HAS LOVED OR LUSTED FOR • (NOT ENOUGH SPACE FOR NAME ENTRIES ·SORRY GUYS!) COME TO SENIOR BAR NOV. 23rd AND BUY HER A SHOT FOR HER BIRTHDAY! 
HEY MISSY, REMEMBER THAT ONE DAY IN FRONT OF ALUMNI WHEN YOU MADE AN "EXPLOSIVE" STATE· MENT? WELL, AS YOUR ROOMATE, I REALLY "PEELED" FOR YOU BE· CAUSE YOU REALLY MUST HAVE FELT LIKE A LOO·SAHIIIII ... SEE·YAII!I 
IF YOU HAPPEN TO BE THE GOR­GEOUS DARK HAIRED WOMAN DRESSED IN GREEN & WHITE, STANDING ALONE IN THE 1st FLOOR HALLWAY OF O'SHAG LATE MON. AF· TERNOON, I"LL HAVE YOU KNOW THAT I WILL NOT SLEEP UNTIL WE MEET AGAIN. I WALKED BY 3X (TWICE INTENTIONALLY) & SAID HELLO. RE· MEMBER?! I HOPE SO, FOR MY SAKEI·TTTG 
Two wild and crazy girls need a ride fo Penn State will share expenses and even find a place for you to crash.Call 3352. 
Throw your homework onto the fire. ·The Smiths 
DAN CAHILL Thenka lor the peraonaf. You're aoooo beautllull 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY K.K.I I HATE YOUR GUTS! LOVE, THE WOMAN OF YOUR DREAMS 
WINTER FEST WINTER FEST WINTER FEST WINTER FEST 
K.M. This is for the loudest COXSWAIN out there (wijh no voice left) Good Luck in Philly and keep smiling, 1"11 be thinking of you. ·--from an adm~rer who wishes he could spend more time with you! 
Mike P How was Northwestern---or Ky.??? Did the tanning booth work??? Aunt Flo 
Roses are red, Violets are blue, Now that we"re ALL so excited, Tell us, Tom M. who? 
DEAR KEVIN, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE & HOGS, DAD & MOM 
TO CHRIS FROM NYC How can you leave ua et a time like thla? We'll mlaa your wonderful gHky outlook on llle-gend your long fleming red halrl Lova, The Twine xxxooo 
To the tall guy 1n the windbreaker:what color skin & hair? 
THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER BEFORE BREAK IS MONDAY, NOV. 
23. DEADLINE FOR CLASSIFIEDS FOR THAT ISSUE IS 3 PM, FRIDAY, NOV. 20. 
Fi~~;;;ii;;;·ii~k;i·s;;~;-ht,;·;;d~:i:A·o;;··;-g·. 
·Jan. 12 $275 call Laura at 1290. 
FOR SALE: 1 WAY TIX TO NEWARK 
N.J. FROM SO. BEND AIRPORT ON WED 11·25 PM. CALL BILLY AT 3549 
IRISH IN THE ORANGE BOWL? ONLY WITH YOUR HELP! CALL (301) 842­1515 OR (301) 221·3545 FOR 0-BOWL 
HEAD OFACE. TELL 'EM WHO VA WANT 
GIRLS BEWARE: The BIG TUNA CAHOONA turns 19 today,and he is on the loose Happy B-day TC 
SOPHOMORES 1990 CHICAGO TRIP SECOND CITY SHOW SHOPPING SITE SEEING YOU NAME IT 
SOPHOMORE'S CHICAGO SIGN-UPS TODAY 2-4 P.M. YES TODAY 2·4 p.m. YOU CAN GO WITHOUT GOING TO SEE SECOND CITY $15.00 WITH S.C SHOW $10.00 WITHOUT 
SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOPHS CHI·TOWN TRIP DEC. 5TH BUSES LEAVE 11:30A.M. RETURN 11 :OOP.M. SHOW 8:30 P.M. 
John, If you see me around the yard, putting my groceries away, shoot me. Kill me. Push me off a clift, run me over with a truck, do whatever II takes! I LIVE IN HELLI I LIVE IN HELL! Brian 
YOU: 

I met you after the gema at my tell­geter. Needle•• to uy, my mind wee e bit ehot. I -nt through ell of the T'a In the phone book and I cen't namem­ber your name. I found you and loat 
you. Help. 

NOV. 24,1966 .... A STAR IS BORN ..... FOR IN THE LITTLE TOWN OF CLARENCE. MARY LOU AND JAMES LAHREN GAVE BIRTH TO A LITTLE WEED-PICKER AND THEY DUBBED HER "LEE ANN" (BETIER KNOWN AS MISSY). TO THIS DAY, SHE HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO HOLD A JOB, REFUSE A COOKIE, OR TURN DOWN A SYR DATE. BUT THAT LITILE WEED-PICKER IS DETERMINED TO BECOME A STAR· SO COME PARTY WITH HER ON NOV. 23 AT SENIOR BARIIIIIII!!!III 
ATIENTION MISSY: t) "I F1gured out why l"m not attracted to him anymore... if he would have just left with a kiss good· night.... but no, he gave me everyth­ing...He was just too easy!!!" 2) "Is it O.K. to kiss a guy on a school night?" THANKS FOR ALL YOUR ADVICE "UTILE MIS"· ··LOVE, your roomates. Hello? Yeah, I just wanted to talk to you "about last night..." 
HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY, PHREOIEI MOM, DAD, MARAY, MISSY, VICKI AND DIANNE. 
N.D. & M.S.U. lluD., Thenka for a wonderful -.kendl You are the only girl In the world tor thla SPARTAN. 
All my Love, BradS. 
PLEASE HELP ME II NEED TO SEE MY FAMILY AGAIN. I NEED A RIDE TO CHAMPAIGN ILLINOIS FOR THANKS· GIVING. I WILL PAY DEARLY. CALL TOM x3163 P.S. I"M NOT BAD LOOKING. 
PLEASE give Celestina and her room· mate a ride to Nonhern Jersey Thanks· g1ving! Can leave after lOam on 1 1·24. and will help w1th expenses. and will bring cookies. Call at £3468. 
What do you call M1am1"s Alhlet1c D~rec­tor? Warden 
DANNY BOY, l"m st1ll up lor Denny's. bul the revelation of "harrowed~ secrets worries me. It could get embarrassing .. Be careful. huh? JA 
To all the spec1al people who helped me celebrate my 19th: Thanks for the BEST birthday, 1"11 never forget it(well maybe only parts ol it). Love. Gretchen 
Shakespeare: Thank you for the birthday wishes. Sorry about the other nigh!. Love. Gretchen 
WAY TO GO ST. JUDE 

DAN, YOU'RE SO STUPID LLEX 
RIDE NEEDED to ST. LOUIS for Thanks· ~iving break. Will pay any expenses. Call ::huck £1784. 
SAILING CLUB MEETING 8:30 tonight 204 O'Shag 

OHHHHHHHH BABYIIIIIII'M NOT JUST GEEKEO, I'M FREEKEN GEEKEOIIIII 
PARTY IN THE CEMETERY? I WOULD NOT BE CAUGHT DEAD THERE II NOT ONCE II NOT TWELVE TIMES! 
Maureen Kline-· Your Secret Friend wishes to set up an interlude Please send an ad if interested . 
Dear Gorgeous Blonde: I noticed you too last weekend, but It wasn't your biceps I was looking atl (It was your ladies· LEPRECHAUN SWATCH) let's get to· gather and I'll let you feel my quartz movement. I know I can get into your "U.N.O -wear". And don'tworry, my timing won't be offl -The NO Guy 
ROUND TRIP TICKET FOR SALE DEPART 25 NOV. S.B. 1:09-NEWARK 
N.J.5:27 RETURN 29 NOV. NEWARK 
6:30-S.B.tO:OOP.M. PRICE-$250 CALL 1756 JEFF 
HELPIII I need ride to central PA forT· giving Break. Will share drtvln' and gas$$$. Great conversationalistl Please call Guy at xt 598. It's right along Ate. 22111 


November 11, 1987 The Observer page 11 




Sports Wednesday 

AVG E TA PCT AST AVG ACES 
4.02 144 1081 .316 15 0.12 33 3.43 90 595 .247 8 0.12 22 3.12 120 907 .288 45 0.37 24 2.78 82 549 .281 5 0.06 24 2.15 61 263 .152 2 0.04 14 1.77 72 482 .166 9 0.10 15 1.28 20 175 .177 1 0.03 7 1 '17 27 183 .186 13 0.25 5 1.00 16 74 .149 1 0.04 6 0.76 4 83 .325 350 8.54 11 0.70 13 186 .258 101311.64 25 0.53 33 151 .053 131 1.70 17 0.40 5 14 ·.214 0 0.00 2 0.08 4 14 .000 6 0.12 10 0.00 3 10 •.300 0 0.00 1 14.73 694 4767 .247 1599 12.59 216 13.41 ng 4952 .187 143311.28 201 
Sunday 

no sports scheduled 
Monday 

Men's Cross Country at NCAA Meet (Charlottesville, Va.) 
Tuesday 

no sports scheduled 
Friday, November 27 
Hockey at Canisius 
Saturday, November 28 
Football at Miami Hockey at Canisius Women's Basketball at Loyola 
Monday, November 30 
Women's Basketball vs. NORTHWES­TERN 
Scoreboard 
Results for Nov. 11 through Nov. 18 
Football Notre Dame over Alabama, 37-6 
Men's Cross Country Third place finish at NCAA District IV meet 
Women·s Croas Country Fourteenth place finish in NCAA District IV meet 
Volleyball Notre Dame over Marquette, 15-5, 15-5, 15-1 Notre Dame over Valparaiso. 15-6, 15-6, 13­15, 15-8 
Notre Dame over Michigan State, 12-15, 15­
13, 15-13, 15-11 Western Michigan over Notre Dame, 15-4, 15-13, 15-9 
Swimming Men Alabama 120, Notre Dame 92 Women Alabama 127, Notre Dame 88 
Hockey Notre Dame 6, Lake Forest 4 Notre Dame 4, Lake Forest 2 (OT) 
AP Top 20 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized. 
1. Nebraska (32) 9-0-0 1,164 2. Oklahoma (20) 10-0-0 1,128 
3. Miami (B) 8-0-0 1,101 
4. Florida State 9-1-0 1,025 5. UCLA 9-1-0 958 6. Syracuse 10-0-0 894 7. Notre Dome 8-1-o 834 8. Clemson 9-1-0 714 9. LSU 8-1-1 697 10. Auburn 8-1-1 689 11. Michigan State 7-2-1 611 12. So. Carolina 7-2-0 530 13. Oklahoma St. 8-2-0 405 14. Georgia 7-3-0 371 15. Tennessee 7-2-1 332 18. Texas A&M 7-2-0 319 17. Alabama 7-3-0 220 18. Iowa 8-3-0 130 19. Pitt 7-3-0 103 20. Indiana 7-3-0 81 
Others receiving votes: Southern Cal 80, Wyoming 49, Penn State 43, San Jose State 38, Michigan 33, Florida 20, Eastern Michigan 16, Air Force 6, Arkansas 6, Arizona State 3. 
Basketball Top 20 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, last season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized. 
1. Syracuse (32) 31-7 1,177 2. Purdue (6) 25-5 975 3. No. Carolina (3) 32-4 974 4. Pittsburgh (5) 25-8 946 
5. Kentucky (6) 18-11 918 6. Indiana (6) 30-4 914 7 Kansas (3) 25-11 852 8. Missoun (1) 24-10 811 9. Michigan (2) 20-12 797 10. Wyoming 24-10 569 11. Iowa 30-5 510 12. Temple 32-4 509 
13. Louisville 18-14 499 
14. Florida 23-11 434 
15. Duke 24-9 430 16. Georgetown 29-5 368 17. Arizona 18-12 353 18. Georgia Tech 16-13 296 19. Oklahoma 24-10 227 
20. DePaul 28-3 147 Other recieving votes: Notre Dome 133, UNLV 99, Illinois 61, Auburn 53, UCLA 53, New Orleans 48, Memphis State 47, Bradley 41, Georgia 41, LSU 19, Ohio State 19, No. Carolina St. 17, St. John's 13, So. Missisippi 13, New Mexico 11, Brigham Young 9, Austin Peay 8, Kansas State 7, Marshall 7, Texas EI-Paso 7, Arkansas 6, Tennessee 6, Xavier(Ohio) 6, Miami( Fla.) 5, Clemson 4, Marist 3, Vanderbilt 2, Stanford 1. 
lnterhall Soccer 
DOUBLE-ELIMINATION FORMAT 
Wtnner'o Bracket Holy Cross 1. Fisher 0 OC Hoobers 1, Zahm 0 OC Hoobers 3, Holy Cross 0 
Loaer'o Bracket Zahm 2, Flanner F.C. 1 (OT) Zahm vs. Holy Cross, tonight 
Championship OC Hoobers vs. Zahm+toly Cross winner, Thursday 

Sports Calendar 
Home games In CAPS 
Today 

Women's Basketball vs. Wales (at laGrange, Ind.) 
Thursday 

Men's Basketball vs. ZADAR 
Friday 

Hockey vs. ST. THOMAS Swimming vs. FERRIS STATE Volleyball at North Star Conference Tourney 
Saturday 

Football at Penn State Hockey vs. ST. THOMAS Swimming at Wisconsin-Milwaukee Volleyball at North Star Conference Tourney Wrestling at St. louis Open 
NBA Standings 
AVG DIGS AVG BS BA AVG 0.27 326 2.69 38 89 1.05 0.32 217 3.14 3 31 0.49 0.20 277 2.27 26 111 1.12 0.28 154 1.81 33 115 1.74 0.30 100 2.13 2 14 0.34 0.17 209 2.43 3 37 0.47 0.18 102 2.55 2 6 0.20 0.10 58 1'12 4 28 0.62 0.22 26 0.96 10 19 1.07 0.27 78 1.90 3 19 0.54 0.29 294 3.38 7 43 0.57 0.22 130 1.69 7 43 0.65 0.40 5 1.00 0 3 0.60 0.19 79 1.52 1 0 0.02 1.00 2 2.00 0 0 0.00 1.70 2057 16.20 139 558 3.29 1.58 2115 16.65 84 376 2.14 

Sports Lists 
~:'What College Football Players 

*A survey of 2,973 Division I-A players Source: College Football Association 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Eoot 

w L T Pet. Washington 7 2 0 .778 Dallas 5 4 0 .556 Philadelphia 4 5 0 .444 N.Y. Giants 3 6 0 .333 St. Louis 3 6 0 .333 
Central 

Chicago 7 2 0 .778 Minnesota 5 4 0 .556 Tampa Bay 4 5 0 .444 Green Bay 3 5 1 .389 Detroit 2 7 0 .222 
Weat 

San Francrsco 7 2 0 .778 New Orleans 6 3 0 .667 Atlanta 2 7 0 .222 LA Rams 2 7 0 .222 
Monday Night's Result Denver 31, Chicago 29 
Sunday'o Results Cleveland 27. Buffalo 21 Dallas 23, New England 17 (OT) Washington 20, Detroit 13 Houston 23, Pittsburgh 3 LA. Rams 27, St. Louis 24 Indianapolis 40, Miami 21 Minnesota 23. Tampa Bay 17 
N.Y. Jets 16, Kansas City 9 Cincinnati 16. Atlanta 10 Seattle 24, Green Bay 13 New Orleans 26, San Francisco 24 N.Y. Giants 20, Philadelphia 17 San Diego 16, LA. Raiders 14 
Bowl Schedules 
Florida Citrus Bowl  Hall of Fame Bowl  Liberty Bowl  
January 1, 11 a.m.  January 2, Noon  December 29, jp.m.  
Orlando, Fla.  Tampa, Fla.  Memphis, Tenn.  
ABC-TV  NBC-TV  Raycom network  
Cotton Bowl  Peach Bowl  Aloha Bowl  
January 1, 12:30 p.m.  January 2, Noon  December 25, 2:45 p.m.  
Dallas, Tex.  Atlanta, Ga.  Honolulu, Hawaii  
CBS-TV  Mizlou network  ABC network  
Fiesta Bowl  Bluebonnet Bowl  Sun Bowl  
January 1, 12:30 p.m.  December 31, 8 p.m.  December 25, 1 :30 p.m.  
Tempe, Ariz.  Houston Tex.  El Paso, Tex.  
NBC-TV  Mizlou network  CBS-TV  
Sugar Bowl  Gator Bowl  All-American Bowl  
January 1, 2:30 p.m. New Orleans, La. ABC-TV  December 31, 1:30 p.m. Jacksonville, Fla. CBS-TV  December 22, 7 p.m. Birmingham, Ala. Raycom network  
Rose Bowl  Freedom Bowl  Independence Bowl  
January 1, 4 p.m. Pasadena, Calif. NBC-TV  December 30, 7 p.m. Anaheim, Calif. Mizlou network  December 19, 7 p.m. Shreveport, La. Mizlou network  
Orange Bowl  Holiday Bowl  California Bowl  
January 1, 7 p.m. Miami, Fla. NBC-TV  December 30, 6:30p.m. San Diego, Calif. ESPN network  December 12, 3:30p.m. Fresno, Calif. ESPN network  

PF 224 208 199 160 206  PA 152 202 233 202 235  lndranapolrs N.Y. Jets Buffalo Mramr New England  Eoot w L 5 4 5 4 4 5 5 4 5  T Pet. 0 .556 0 .556 0 .444 0 .444 0 .444  PF 193 211 164 244 166  PA 140 186 224 211 191  
Central  
246 193 209 160 159  160 197 182 188 250  Houston Cleveland Pittsburgh Cinc1nnat1  6 6 5 3  3 3 4 6  0 .667 0 .667 0 .556 0 .333  223 238 177 154  183 131 195 186  
Weot  
250 237 130 161  200 161 270 239  San Drago Seattle Denver LA. Raiders Kansas Crty  8 6 5 3 1  1 3 3 6 8  0 .889 0 .667 1 .611 0 .333 0 .111  192 232 229 183 142  155 178 189 185 265  

Sundoy'o Gameo Allanta at Mrnnesota Buffalo at NY Jets Cleveland at Houston Detroit at Chicago Green Bay at Kansas City Indianapolis at New England Prttsburgh at Cincrnnati St. Louis at Phrladelphra San Francisco at Tampa Bay N Y Giants at New Orleans San Drago at Seattle Denver at LA Rarders Miami at Dallas 
Mondoy Nlght'o Game LA Rams at Washington 
Boston Wash1ngton Phrladelphra New Jersey New York 
Chrcago Milwaukee Atlanta Detrort lnd1ana Cleveland 
Denver Houston Dallas Utah San Anton1o Sacramento 
LA Lakers Portland LA Clippers Phoen1)( Seattle Golden State Eaatern Conference Atlontlc Dlvlolon 
w  L  
6  1  
2  4  
3  

Control Dlvlolon 5 t 
5 2 
4 2 3 2 3 3 2 

Weatern Conference Mtdwool Dlvtoton 
w L 4 1 5 2 
J 3 
3 3 3 4 2 3 

Pocl!lc Dtvtolon 6 0 2 3 2 
2 
2 4 6 
Pet. GB 857 333 3.5 250 35 200 4 167 45 
833 714 667 1 600 1 5 500 2 333 3 
Pet. GB 800 714 500 15 500 1 5 429 2 400 2 
I 000 400 35 333 333 333 4 143 55 

PLAYER Zanella Bennett Kathy Cunningham Maureen Shea Mary Kay Waller Colleen Wagner Kathy Baker Whitney Shewman Gretchen Kraus Rachel Hall Kathleen Morin Taryn Collins Amy White Chris Rosso Jill Suglich Maria Rhomberg NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS 
Tueodoy'o Reoutto New Jersey 114. Houston 111 Cleveland 109. Boston 88 Chrcago 105. Washrngton 101 Mrtwaukee 120. Golden State 108 San Antonro 122. LA Clippers 121 lOT) Denver at Utah. tate Portland at L A Lakers. late lndrana at Sacramento. late 
Wedneoday'o Gomeo Chrcago at Washrngton New York at Boston Golden State at Atlanta Phrladelphra at Detrort L A Clippers at Dallas lndrana at Denver Utah at Phoenrx Portland at Seattle 
Irish Volleyball 
GP 121 69 122 85 47 86 40 52 27 41 87 77 5 52 1 127 127 
KILLS 
486 
237 
381 
236 
101 
152 
51 
61 
27 
31 
61 
41 
2 
4 
0 
1871 
1703 


©JJ!L!L !M@Wi 
• Group Charters & Tours • Card Tables 


SObering Advice·.= 
• 
Restrooms •Radios 

• 
Your DESIGNATED Driver • Tape Players 


can save alife\
CARDINAL 
Think Before You Dr1nk
CHARTERS & TOURS 
Before You Dnve
DRINKING AND DRIVING .-­
CAN KI.L A FRIENDSHIR

287·8677 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617 
----~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-------~-~ ~ ------~-----~---~ 

The controversy continues at Ohio State Univer­
tor Rick Bay. Meahwhlle, the Buckeyes are

sity In the wake of the firing of football coach 
looking for a new coach.

Earle Bruce and the resignation of athletic dlrec-
Ohio State searches for coach 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -No sooner had it been announced that Earle Bruce had been fired as head football coach at Ohio State than the speculation began over a successor. 
But, in light of the contro­versy swirling around Bruce's firing by university President Edward Jennings--and the sub­sequent resignation of Athletic Director Rick Bay in protest-­almost as important as who might be interested are their reasons for being interested. 
"If it's a coach who already has a good job now, then he'll take (the circumstances sur­rounding Bruce's firing) into consideration," said Michigan coach Bo Schembechler. "There are a lot of coaches around the country who will jump into any void. They (Ohio State) will have no problem getting a coach, but whoever goes in there will have some apprehension." 
Jennings, however, said he expected not to have trouble at­tracting a replacement. 
"I'm confident we can at­tract the finest coach in the country, and I'm confident that we will," he said. 
Bruce was fired despite an 80-26-1 record in his nine seasons at Ohio State. 
Jennings said at a Tuesday news conference that he planned to meet with James Jones, the associate athletic director appointed to succeed Bay, to review the process for selecting a new football coach. Jennings said he hoped that a 

SNOW VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 
-play on the quad-in the snow 
-January 16-17 
-during Winterfest week 
-7 person teams including 2 wome (no varsity players allowed) -Sign-ups December 2 & 3 in SUB office from 12-5 pm -limited to 32 teams -$2 per team 


PRIZES 

The College of Arts and Letters Lecture on Liberal Education for Careers in Business by John D. Madden 
Chief Executive Officer-First National Bank 
Board of Trustees-College ofArts and Letters Notre Dame Graduate Wednesday, Nov. 18, 1987 7:30P.M. 

Wednesday, November 18, 1987 

Toronto's Bell wins MVP, narrowly defeats Trammell 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -George Bell of the Toronto Blue Jays became the first member of a Canadian team to win the American League Most Valuable Player award Tuesday, beating Alan Trammell of the Detroit Tigers in the voting. 
Bell, also the first Dominican to be named MVP, beat the Tigers' shortstop by 21 points, getting 332 points to Tram­mell's 311 in voting by the 
Baseball  Writers  Association  
of America.  
For  winning,  Bell  will  

receive a $50,000 bonus from the Blue Jays. The outfielder's base salary for 1987 was $1,285,000. 
Two association members in each of the 14 AL cities were eligible to vote. Bell received 16 first-place votes and Tram­mell12. 
Minnesota outfielder Kirby Puckett was third in the voting with 201 points, followed by Boston's Dwight Evans and Milwaukee's Paul Moiltor. 
Bell's outstanding season was somewhat tarnished by a damaging slump in the final weeks of the season as Toronto battled Detroit for first place in the AL East. 
Bell struggled through a 2­for-26 finish as the Tigers swept the Blue Jays in the final three games to win the division. 
Bell, who is not always cooperative with the media, hit .308 with 47 home runs, a league-leading 134 runs batted in and 111 runs scored, the lat­ter three setting club records. He also had a .605 slugging percentage and 16 game­winning RBis. 
He staged a season-long bat­tle with Oakland rookie Mark McGwire for the AL home run title before McGwire finished with 49. 
"He's got a bad shoulder from carrying the rest of the ball club all summer," Detroit Manager Sparky Anderson said of Bell after the Tigers beat the Blue Jays 1-0 on the final day of the season. 
Trammell moved to the No. 4 spot in the lineup during spring training, after the defec­tion of free agent Lance Par­rish. Trammell responded by hitting a career-high .343 with 28 home runs, 105 runs batted in and 205 hits. 
He was the first Tiger since Al Kaline in 1955 to have 200 hits and 100 RBI. 
There were no excuses from Bell after the Tigers swept the final three games from Toronto in Detroit. 
"They gave me the pitches to hit. I missed them," he said. 
Since becoming a full-time player with Toronto in 1984, Bell has averaged .296 with 33 homers and 106 RBI. 
He was drafted by Toronto in 1980 from the Philadelphia Phillies organization, despite missing most of that season with a stress fracture in his shoulder. 
Toronto's AL East champi­onship year of 1985 also was Bell's most controversial. 
He gave notice to the league of his power when, in consecu­tive games, he hit home runs twice over the left field roof at Comiskey Park in Chicago--the first player to accomplish that feat--and also into the center­field bleachers 455 feet away. 
He also showed his temper on "brush-back" pitches when he charged the mound in Bos­ton after a close pitch by Bruce Kison and delivered a drop­kick. Bell was suspended for two games. 
replacement could be found by the end of the year. 
"We would look for, in a new coach, an individiual who represents the institution well," Jennings said, refusing in response to a question to say that Bruce had failed to do so. 
Heading the list of prospec­tive coaches are several former Ohio State assistants and prominent head coaches with Ohio backgrounds. 
The top contender could be 37-year-old Kent State Univer­sity coach Glen Mason. Mason took over the Kent State pro­gram in the spring of 1986, upon the sudden death of Coach Dick Scesniak. He took a 3-8 team in 1985 to a 5-6 record and conten­tion for the Mid-American Con­ference crown. 
This year, with one game remaining, Kent is 7-3, its best record since 1976. 
Mason, a former Ohio State linebacker married to a former OSU cheerleader, spent six years under Bruce as the offen­sive coordinator at Ohio State. He also has had coaching stints at Ball State, Allegheny, Iowa State and Illinois. 
Asked Monday night if he would be a candidate for the position, Mason said, "If you are asking me if I have an in­terest in the job, yes, I have an interest in the job. A very big interest. I've dreamed of going back to OSU some day." 
Others mentioned as poten­tial candidates have varied backgrounds. 
Marshall University head coach George Chaump worked as an assistant for 11 years un­der the late Woody Hayes and is 13-8-1 in his two seasons at Marshall. 
SHEHADHER FIRST BEER ON MONDAY, AND 
NOW THE WEEKEND IS COM/NO!
,, 





\ HAPPY 21ST THERESA 
Whatever the occassion-­we'll decorate a cake that's right!-birthdays -anniversaries -victory parties -friendly gatherings FREE DELIVERY with V4 or l!2 sheet 
cake order call 232-8219 



~~~~~~~Ti~~ 


Wednesday, November 18, 1987 
The Observer 

r 
,, 

AP Photo Atlanta forward Ken Willis and Cavalier center night's pro scores and current standings, see Brad Daugherty battle for a rebound. For last Sports Wednesday, page 11. 
page 13 

Sports Briefs 
Michael Smith, junior guard on the Notre Dame basketball team, suffered torn cartilage and partially torn ligaments in his left knee in practice last Wednesday. No surgery was needed. His knee is in a brace and he is ex­pected to miss 8-10 weeks. -The Observer 
The Equestrian Club will hold a meeting tonight at 
8:30 p.m. in room 222 of the Library. All members are required to attend. -The Observer 
SMC Turkey Trot registration forms are due tomorrow at 11 a.m. at the NVA office for ND students and faculty, and at Angela Athletic Facility for SMC students and fac­ulty. -The Observer 
A misprint on the 1987 basketball ticket applications 
incorrectly reported the price of bleacher seats at $54. The 
correct price is $64. -The Observer 
Varsity and novice rowers going to Philadelphia must attend a meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. -The Observer 
0-C Hockey will have its first practice today at 1 a.m. Try to sign release forms at the NVA office before then. -The Observer 
The women's soccer team will have an indoor game tomorrow at 6 p.m. Meet at the Library Circle at 5:45. Any questions, call Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in room 204 0' Shaugnessy. All members are encour­aged to attend. Plans will be made to put away the boats and also for winter lessons and activities. -The Observer 
Items 
continued from page 16 
It appears there will be no deal between the Orange and Cotton bowl games regarding the Notre Dame-Miami winner and loser. The folks in Dallas want Notre Dame, nobody else, to bring in bucks and TV ratings. TV ratings are all the more important this year as the Cotton and Fiesta Bowls go head-to-head at 12:30 on Janu­ary 1 with CBS and NBC, respectively. 
So Miami has a chance to 
play for the national champi­
onship again, against the 
Nebraska-Oklahoma winner. 
While the odds will say the Hurricanes should win, the od­dsmakers cannot estimate the magnitude of two more impor­tant numbers. 58 and 7. 
The first number is the score Miami ran up to crush Notre Dame in Gerry Faust's last game as head coach. The second number is all the strug­gling Irish offense could muster in that game. But the 1987 offense does not struggle ­it knows how to move the foot­ball. And the 1987 defense does not let anybody run up the score, even in a friendly card game. 
If the Alabama game was emotional, the Miami game should be twice that. Not only does Notre Dame have a chance to kill Miami's hopes for a national championship, it can keep hope for an eighth na­tional title alive with a win. If that is not incentive enough, nothing could be. 
Over half of this football team and student body was here for the embarrassment of the 1985 debacle. We remem­ber. And so does a certain CBS commentator who led the Irish to two national championships in ten years. His tenure is referred to as the Era of Ara. And his words on that infamous day in Miami two years ago now look like those of a prophet. No matter what bowl Notre Dame plays in on New Year's Day, no matter what title is at stake, Ara Parseg­hian was right when he said: 
"From these ashes, a phoenix will rise." 
Wednesday, November 18, 198714 The Observer 
•


Top talent found 1n Midwest 
beck has 11 lettermen return­year.Associated Press ing and the race in the Missouri Northern Illinois has four Valley Conference should be starters back plus an outstand­
CHICAGO-If the NCAA bas­for second place. ing freshman in Donnell 
ketball championship, won by Wichita State, Illinois State Thomas, and Chicago State Bob Knight's Indiana Hoosiers and Tulsa figure to be in the plays its first nine games on last season, is to remain in the race for the runner-up spot. the road and the Cougars have Midwest, there are plenty of Wichita State has three return­only one starter returning in candidates, including the ing starters, led by 6-9 Sasha Laurent Crawford. Hoosiers themselves. Radunovich; Illinois State has 
Xavier, Evansville and St.

Indiana, Purdue, Michigan, three returning starters but Iowa and Illinois will be scram­lost Derrick Sanders; and Louis will be in the chase for bling for the championship in Tulsa will bank heavily on the Midwestern City Confer­the physical and powerful Big Tracy Moore and Don Royster. ence championship. Xavier has Ten, and Kansas, Missouri and Southern Illinois, with four four starters including Byron Oklahoma figure to be the big starters back, could make Larkin, who averaged 24.8 
guys in the Big Eight. points. Evansville has Marty
some noise. Drake, Creighton 
Simmons back among five

Bradley is clearly the class and Indiana State will bring upin the sprawling Missouri Val­the rear. starters and St. Louis has 
Monroe Douglass, Roland

ley Conference, and DePaul DePaul has four starters re­and Notre Dame are the top in­turning from Joey Meyer's 28-3 Gray and Anthony Bonner re­
dependents in the Great Plains. team but Dallas Comegys is turning from a team that won Knight has captured three gone and that leaves a big hole. 25 games last season. 
NCAA titles but never two in a But this will be a quicker, row. If the Hoosiers can repeat, faster team headed by guard Loyola of Chicago, Butler it would be the first time in the Rod Strickland and Kevin Ed­and Detroit will have prob­NCAA since UCLA's streak of 
wax:ds. lems. 

seven titles ended after the 1973 Notre Dame has three re­Cleveland State and defend­campaign. turning starters but one is ing champion Southwest Mis­Knight has Dean Garrett, David Rivers, who could be the souri State head the Mid­Rick Calloway and Keith best point guard in the country. Continent. Mouse McFadden, 
rne Obeerver I Suzanne Poch
Smart returning. Remember Rivers led the Irish with a 15.7 with a 21.5 average, leads 
The ball Is right where the fans want to see It, In the hands of Irish
Smart? He made the final bas­average along with 163 assists Cleveland State. Southwest 
ket in the 1966-87 championship guard David Rivers. He and the rest of the Notre Dame basketball
and 45 steals. Missouri has loaded up on 

game against Syracuse. But Marquette slipped to 16-13 junior college talent to offset team are among the best on the talented midwest basketball scene. Knight will be without Steve Al­the loss of Winston Garland.
last season and the Warriors Ill ALUMNI >~X*'m"1!.• ..: 11:: . .:..;:.:.....
ford and Daryl Thomas. might have difficulty matching Northern Iowa has a chance SENIOR =:~-:>,~@:::;::,.::~,;.....:i!/.i.Wx-.·:1'!:!::<m=:-: "You don't replace an Alford that mark; Oral Roberts has a to contend, Valparaiso has five with another player," said "new" coach in Ken Trickey, starters returning from a 
r........~i!:CLUB~..........1 
Knight. "And don't lose sight who guided the Titans in the second-division team and Eas­of what Thomas did. The look early 1970s; and Akron will tern Illinois is building around 
of our team will be different ~ ~ 
rebuild around Shawn Roberts. Jay Taylor. Illinois-Chicago

from that approach. We will be Dayton will try to improve on has a new coach in Bob Hal­different offensively and defen­its 13-15 record set by a group lberg. Wisconsin-Green Bay 
I WEDNESDAy I 
sively." of freshmen. Coach Don could have trouble staying in That normally would give the Donoher's team has joined the the first division and Western 
other Big Ten coaches head­I LONG ISLAND ICED TEA $1.75!
Midwestern City Conference Illinois will find it tough to get


aches and fits. But most of but will not compete until next out of the cellar. 


them have a cure and there is plenty of talent, which is one of the reasons the Big Ten is one of the tougher leagues in the country. 
Purdue has four starters re­turning in Troy Lewis, Todd Mitchell, Melvin McCants and Everette Stephens; Michigan could have the top guard in the country in Gary Grant; Iowa. returns five lettermen includ­ing Roy Marble; and Illinois has a young team headed by newcomers Nick Anderson and Ken Battle, a transfer stan­dout. 
Ohio State could be a dark horse. Michigan State, Min­nesota, Northwestern and Wis­consin carry no title hopes. 
Danny Manning returned for his final year and all is well with Kansas and Coach Larry Brown. The 6-foot-10 Manning, with his 23.9 points per game and 9.5 rebounding average, makes the Jayhawks the favor­ite in the Big Eight. 
But they could have trouble beating out defending cham­pion Missouri. One reason is Derrick Chievous, the Tigers' all-around scoring machine who needed only three years to break Steve Stipanovich's school scoring record set in four years. Chievous averages 
24.1 points and 8.6 rebounds. 
Another individual standout in the Big Eight is Jeff Grayer of Iowa State, while at Okla­homa Coach Billy Tubbs has Harvey Grant and Rickey Grace back plus a bunch of talented junior college trans­fers. 
Kansas State could be a fac­tor in the race with Mitch Rich­mond. Nebraska, Oklahoma State and Colorado will be also­rans. 
Hersey Hawkins returns at Bradley with his 27.2 scoring average along with four other starters. In all, Coach Stan AI-


Who are we? 

I DOMESTIC DRAFT 50 CENTS ~ ~ I
I THURSDAY ~ 
~ ~ 

I AMARETTO SOUR 75 CENTS IICORONA JUST $1 I 
I I

FRIDAY LUNCH 
ISTART THE WEEKEND OFF RIGHT!~I OPEN NOON TO 2 PM ~ I 21 I.D. REQUIRED I 
~.................................................................................................. 



TERRIFIC VALUE 

Join us for "BEEFY WEDNESDAY" Purchase a 14" Roast Beef Sub and receive an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Wednesday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion 
Wednesday, November 18, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
12:10 p.m. -1 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
3:30 p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar "Chaos and Its Manifestation in the Solar System," by Jack Wisdom, MIT, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 
4:30p.m.: College of Science Lecture in Chemistry, Part II: Recent Develop­ments in Molecular Orbital Theory, "Energies of Small Molecules and Cations," by Professor John Pople, Room 123 Nieuwland Hall. 
5:30p.m.: Toastmasters meetingkiinner, meet at Main Circle to go to Club 23. 
7:30p.m.: Faculty Conversations on Connections: Historical View of the De­velopment of Science and Technology, sponsored by Sigma Xi, The Program in Science, Technology and Values, and Saint Mary's College, students welcome, free, 118 Nieuwland Hall. 
8: 10 p.m.: NMMC Theatre presents "Thursday's Child," a play by Julie Jensen, SMC, for tickets call 284-4626, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Footlong Hot Dog  Philly Steak Sandwich  
wtoppings  Baked Fish w!Sweet and  
Lasagna  Sour Sauce  
Stuffed Peppers  Mexican Potato  
Baked Cod in Herbs  Deli Bar  


Bloom County 
ACROSS 1 Aid In crime 5 Salad plant 
10 Fictional 
sleuth 14 Jacob's wife 15 Eagle's nest 18 Leg covering 17 Peruvian 18 Intermediate 
In law 19 Reverberate 20 Harsh 
questioning 23 Recipients: 
suff. 24 Queries 27 Crocheted 
blanket 31 Pounded 35 More unusual 38 Soccer great 37 Mouths 38 Emulated 
Perry Mason 42 Old Fr. coin 43 Do -others 44 Extremely 45 Demolishes 48 Hawk 49 Very dry 50 Anger 51 lnve~tlgatlon 58 Neuron part 81 lt. navigator 82 Asian nurse 84 Gentle 85 Threefold 56 Donated 67 Considerable 68 Beasts of ' 
burden 69 Afr. antelope 
DOWN 1 Former champ 2 Propensity 3 Apiece 4 Siamese 5 NJ port 6 Orchestra 
section 7 Gaelic 8 Warble 9 Crystal-gazer 
10 Edam or Gouda 
Berke Breathed 


© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
11 Ad ­12 Residue 13 Modem: pref. 
21 Brings up 
22 Ravage 
25 Danish money 
28 Calm 
27 Rainbow-
shaped 28 Comedies 29 Complain 30 "For -a jolly 
good ... " 31 Borscht base 32 Too 33 Asian holiday 34 -Warbucks 36 Weak 39 Quid pro ­40 Map part 41 Alley of the 52 Judicial 56 Sharif or 
comics proceedings Bradley 
46 Stylish 53 Red planet 57 Defense force 47 A Harrison 54 Wading 58 Sum: abbr. 48 Emulates bird 59 12 
Bryant 55 Othello's 60 Aged 50 Hole -friend? 63 Spell 
The Far Side Gary Larson 


Fruitcases 
-~--~---·--­
~-~~-----------~ 
Sports

page 16 Wednesday, November 18, 1987 

By ROB PIERCE 
Sports Writer 

And then there were three. 
Of the eight teams that gained a berth in the men's in­terhall soccer playoffs, only the Off-Campus Hoobers, Holy ·cross, and Zahm remain in the 
hunt for the championship. 
The Hoobers, defending champions and second seed, appear on their way to retain­ing the title. They were expected to be tested Monday night in a matchup against top­seeded Holy Cross but instead, displaying the skill and inten­sity that helped them breeze through the regular season without allowing a goal, they ran away with a 3-0 shutout. 
The game was of particular 
interest because of the seeding 
controversy. Off-Campus was 
regarded by almost everyone 
as the heavy favorite to suc­
cessfully defend the champion­
ship, but Holy Cross received 
the first seed while the Hoobers 
had to settle for the second. 
"I was surprised we were the 
number one seed," said Holy 
Cross captain Jeff Utz. "The Hoobers are the defending champs. NVA probably just flipped a coin." 
For thirty minutes, the con­test did live up to its billing as the teams battled to a scoreless tie at intermission. But after halftime, Off-Campus took con­trol. Tom Keating headed a throw-in past Utz, the Holy Cross keeper, midway through the second half to put the Hoobers on the scoreboard. That goal signaled the begin­ning of the end for Holy Cross, who were never able to regroup and mount an attack on the Hoober goal. 
"We seemed to give up after the first goal," remarked Utz. "That took us out of our game." 
Off-Campus kept the pres­sure on the Holy Cross goal, forcing a defensive error which resulted in the second score. A Holy Cross defender attempted to play the ball back to Utz in goal, but the kick went past him and into the net. The victory was clinched with a minute remaining on an insurance goal by Sean Evers, who headed in a long cross from Jim McKeln. That goal put the finishing touch on the Hoober's best ef­fort of the playoffs. 
"This was the first game we played with great intensity," said Off-Campus coach Dave Thompson. "Before, we could win on skill alone, but against Holy Cross we came to play." 
The loss drops Holy Cross into the loser's bracket, where they will face Zahm, the sixth­seed and surprise of the playoffs. Zahm defeated Flan­ner F.C. 2-1, in overtime, on a pair of goals by Kevin Keeley, both assisted by Steve Barth, for the right to play Holy Cross. The winner of the Holy Cross­Zahm matchup will then move into the final against the Hoobers. 
In the final, Off-Campus will only need to win once to win the championship. However, because of the double-elimina­tion format, the Holy Cross­Zahm winner will need to beat the Hoobers twice for the title. And if the action thus far is any indication, that will be no easy task. 
"We've already beaten both," said Thompson, "and we know what to expect." 

Tennis team wraps up fall season 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 

Coach Bob Bayliss of the Notre Dame men's tennis team knew last week that competi­tion in the Rolex Regional Qualifier would be tough. 
Unfortunately, he was right. 
The tournament, held last weekend in Bloomington, pitted Irish hopefuls against strong teams from the Big-10 and Mid-American confer­ences. Six members of the Irish squad entered the singles divi­sion: Paul Daggs, Sean O'Brien, Dave Reiter, Brian Kalbas, Mike Wallace and Ryan Wenger. Reiter teamed with Wallace and Kalbas paired up with Wenger for the doubles com}>etition. 
Daggs was the only member to advance in the singles with a 6-4, 6-1 victory over Cartey Richie of Western Michigan, but then fell to Tim Keller of Miami(Ohio), 2-6, 6-3, 6-4. The doubles division saw Kalbas and Wenger cruise over the team from Eastern Michigan, 6-1, 6-1, only to lose to Akeman and Bendley of Northwestern, 6-3, 6-2 in a see-saw battle. 
After sustaining a slight hand injury in the doubles match Thursday night, Mike Wallace gave eighth-seeded Malivi Washington a tough match before going down 6-1, 6-3, in a contest closer than the final score indicated. 
Nonetheless, the team ends the fall season with optimism. Junior Dave Reiter said that the fall was a: good indicator of upcoming spring competition as well as how much work the team will need. 
"We have some good things going for us-great facilities, good freshmen and a highly motivated coach. Hopefully, the support from the student body will also increase." 
Sean O'Brien regards the construction of the Eck Pavilion as a key to the team's success in his last season with the Irish. 
"The new courts will help us improve with additional prac­tice over the winter. Now we are able to have matches from January to April and also at­tract better schools and players," he said. 
According to Ba~ 'iss, close matches, aggressivt. tactics and tough competitiL 1 were par for the course dur1'lg the past season. However he shares the team's optimisr.·for the spring season. 
"The future looks good," sa1, Bayliss. "We have a great facility, a good administration, and a school that sells itself. Of course academics come first, but there's room for both. We will be there one day." 

Volleyball team falls to W. Michigan 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team suffered its ninth loss of the season at the hands of the Western Michigan Broncos last night. 
The Irish were swept in three games, 15-4, 15-3, 15-6, to West­ern Michigan, which is cur­rently ranked 15th in the na­tion. 
Seven of Notre Dame's nine losses have come against teams ranked in the top twenty in the nation. With 29 victories and nine losses, the Irish will have a difficult time making the NCAA tournament. 
Maureen Shea led the Irish with 15 kills and six blocks. Zanette Bennett contributed 12 kills and 18 digs, and Jill Suglich added 15 digs. 
Notre Dame was without the services of freshman setter Amy White, who did not make the trip to Western Michigan because of illness. 
This weekend, the team will travel to Chicago to compete in the North Star Conference tour­nanemt. The Irish were unde­feated against North Star op­ponents during the regular season. 
·Pony Express rides again 
Outlined against a blue-gray November sky, the Pony Express rode again. 
In frontier days, that form of communication across the land delivered important messages to men and women of the wilderness. But that was only a preliminary. Today, it has reappeared as the Notre Dame backfield, delivering an important message to Irish opponents, pollsters, and even the omnipresent bowl representatives. 
Notre Dame is for real. 
Grantland Rice may have put it differently when he made another Irish backfield, the Four Horsemen, a house­hold name with his immortal words over sixty years ago, but you get the idea. 

Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

No more pussyfooting around. No more having to prove themselves. No more unqualified high national rankings. The Irish football team that beat up on Alabama last Sat­urday deserves to be where it is--en route to a New Year's Day bowl game and still in the chase for an unprecedented eighth national championship. 
Alabama is not a bad football team. Saturday, they were not a bad football team. Then why did the Tide get taken to the cleaners? Because Notre Dame was an awesome football team. They tackled like a top team is supposed too. They blocked like a top team is supposed to. They kicked like a top team is supposed to. And they ran like few other football teams in this country can. No wonder Alabama left Green with envy and Crimson with embar­rassment. 
Junior tailback Mark Green made the Tide his third consecutive victim of 100-yard games on Saturday with 149 yards rushing, including a spectacular 74-yard dash. Not to be outdone, freshman Ricky Watters had a 75-yard romp late in the game. The Pony Express effort of these two, Tony Rice, Tony Brooks, Braxston Banks and Tim Brown has given the Irish an average of 350 yards on the ground in the last five games for 75% of their total yards. 
Any mention of Notre Dame's success running this year is blatantly incomplete without recognizing what may be the best offensive line in the country. Fifth-year seniors Chuck Lanza, Byron Spruell, Tom Rehder and Tom Freeman will be sorely missed when the young Irish run­ning backs return next fall. 
But the most important thing on the minds of the Irish should not be next year, or even January 1. It's next week, and the week after. 
Penn State lost to Pitt last week, 10-0. They are hungry to avenge that loss against anybody, especially Notre 
-Dame, and secure a bid to the Florida Citrus bowl on January 2 against Clemson. And, just as a spirited Irish squad wanted to guarantee a win for the seniors in their last home game, the Nittany Lions are anxious to do the same in their final home contest this Saturday against the Irish. Notre Dame cannot look past Joe Paterno and Com­pany. 
But Coach Paterno and the Lions are targets for the eye of an Irish hurricane that is heading east to College Park then southeast to Miami. 
For the past two years, Notre Dame has been told that it was not good enough to leave home on New Year's Day. Now, Miami is being told that they are too good to leave home on New Year's Day. 
see ITEMS, page 13 






