
ll Warming up for Navy
IRISH EXTRA: Navy preview 
Partly sunny and warmer
I 
today with a high hear 60. Fair 

VIEWPOINT: A personal valedictory II ~~~=·~~di~%::':"~ 
--------~------------~ 



The colors they are a-changin' 
Reagan nominates new justice 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan, making good on his promise to pick an­other hardline conservative, nominated federal appeals court Judge Douglas Ginsburg to the Supreme Court on Thursday, raising the prospect of a second confirmation battle in the Sen­ate. 
Reagan praised Ginsburg as an adv­ocate of judicial restraint and a believer in law and order. He said Ginsburg "will take a tough, clear-eyed view" of the Constitution "while remaining sensitive to the safety of our citizens and to the problems facing law enforcement professionals." 
Ginsburg sits on the same bench as Judge Robert Bork, whose nomination to the nation's highest court was 

Saint Mary's students Anne Cranley, left, Pattie Bigelow, Anne Broderick, and Debbie Smith observe the brillant fall foliage see NOMINEE, page 7 
y h~ < y;-:.: "'"'" t:r < ......, -::. y">: ~ :.t <( )h 
A Wee~end with _Navy ·:··· · · ··. ~ 
The Alumni Association has prepared a list of events sched­uled for the second home football weekend. Weekend events include: 
FRIDAY 7 p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center. 7::10 p.m.: Hockey Home Opener with a special appearance of the Skating Leprechaun in the Joyce ACC North Dome. 
SATURDAY 7 a.m.: Band Rehearsal at Washington Hall. 9 a.m.-5 p.m.: Alumni Hospitality Ce~ter in th~ JAC~ North Dome. Notre Dame and Saint Marys alumm, family and friends are cordially invited to attend the Hospitality Center for refreshments, entertainment, films and info~mation. 9::10 a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous. A closed meetmg of the AA fellowship in the Center for Social Concerns. 10 a.m.: Peformance by Shenanigans in the JACC. 
10:30 a.m.: Glee Club performance in the JACC. . 
10:45 a.m.: Performance by Cheerleaders and Dancin' Insh in front of the Bookstore. 
11:15 a.m.: Band concert on the steps of the Administration Building. 
11:40 a.m.: Pre-game program. Noon: Football: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs. Navy. After the game: Alumni Hospitality Center in th~~ACC. 
··-~~-~··-·· --,. ····-~ ~ ·-~ ~ 


WSND seeks broadcast funds 
By ROBYN SIMMONS News Staff 
In an effort to defray operat­ing costs during academic breaks, Notre Dame's student­run fine arts radio station, WSND-FM is conducting its an­nual fall fund drive beginning Nov. 1. 
The station usually holds week-long fund drives but is ex­tending its fall drive an extra week in order to continue broadcasting during academic breaks. 
"The station is budgeted through the Office of Student Activities," said Station Manager Jesse Pesta. "We broadcast year-round and the University doesn't finance us during breaks. The money they budget for us only applies when school is in session." 
Currently, WSND is close to $4,000 in debt. "We would hope to get (about) $5,500," Pesta said. ''That would get us out of the red and give us a little extra over Christmas and Thanks­giving," he said. 
"We have an all-volunteer staff so the money is not going for paying people," said Carolyn Gardner, the station's chief announcer and current director of the fund drive. "No amount is too small because there are always bills that have to be paid." Funds are needed to buy production equipment and new music. 
"I think (the fund drive) will be more successful this year because we have some new and some revitalized programs that are very popular with our listening audience," said Gardner. 
"We've just put together our program guide for Novem­ber," said Pesta. "That's basi­cally our fund-raising mailer," he said. 
"(The program guide) has a form on the back page for people on our mailing list to return their comments on our programs and also to ask them to select their premium (donation amount)," said Pesta. 
Contributions of $20 or more will receive a 1988 Pictorial Ireland Yearbook and Appoint­ment Diary. A gift of $35 or more brings contributors a copy of "Go Public! The Traveler's Guide to Non­Commercial Radio." Dona­tions of $50 or more will receive both publications. 
The program guides will be mailed to approximately 1,300 people who are on the station's mailing list and extra copies 
see RADIO, page 4 


ND graduate a candidate for mayor of South Bend 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
Assistant News Editor 
A new era will be ushered in Tuesday with the election of a mayor in the city of South Bend. 
Voters will be looking beyond the ten­ure of outgoing Mayor Roger Parent to the leadership of either Carl Baxmeyer or Joseph Kernan. 
By most accounts, the race between the Republican Baxmeyer and the Democrat Kernan will be a close one, each running effective campaigns. Ker­nan's support rests with what he terms a unified Democratic party, while Bax­meyer has been publicizing Republi­can, as well as Democratic support. 
Kernan is a former city controller for South Bend, serving from 1980 through 



t987 
Vote 
1984 and is a former deputy mayor of the city. 
Baxmeyer holds 10 years of experi­ence as a city planner in areas of land use planning, environmental assess­ment, transportation planning, capital improvement evaluation, recreation planning, project management and 

Joseph Kernan 
grant management. 
An undergraduate of Grand Valley State College (Mich.) in 1976 with a degree in planning/environmental sci­ence, and holding a master's in plan­ning.hydrology from Colorado State University in 1979, Baxmeyer is a former county planning director and has said he considers his experience in the private sector a strong quality for a mayor to have. 
Kernan, who grew up in South Bend, is a University of Notre Dame graduate, earning a degree in govern­ment in 1964. He also claims experience in business and industry, recently ser­ving as a vice president and treasurer for the South Bend MacWilliams Cor­poration. 
South Bend has not had a Republican elected to the mayor's office since 1963, which on the surface would seem to give the edge to the Democratic nominee. However, a hard-fought Democratic primary left some of the party dis­enchanted with Kernan. 
see MAVOR, page 6 
page 2 
In Brief 
Chuck Collins, one of Notre Dame's famous scholar-athletes, has been honored by a fellowship fund in his memory. The fund has been established by his family and friends in the Law School. The Chuck Collins Fellow­ships will be awarded with prefere~ce for! but ~ot restricted to, students who have partctpated m varsity athletics at Notre Dame and are pursuing a career in law. A 1925 graduate of the Law School, Collins was a member of Knute Rockne's 1924 National Championship team, starting at left end. -The Observer 
BandleaderWoody Herman, whose50-yearcareer took him from smart ballrooms to African villages and from blues to rock 'n' roll, died Thursday at age 74. Her­man was admitted to the coronary intensive care unit of the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles on March 26 after suffering from effects of high-altitude sickness during a tour through Colorado and Utah, said his manager, Tom Cassidy. Herman "was one of the most wonderful human beings in the whole world," Cassidy said. "He never quit." -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
A Halloween costume ball will be held tonight at Theodore's from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. There will be refresh­ments, door prizes, and a costume contest. The event is sponsored by Theodore's and the Student Union Board. ­
The Observer 
Feast of All Saints will be celebrated with a Spanish liturgy on Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Farley Chapel. Father Pat Foley will preside. -The Observer 
Carroll Hall haunted house will be Saturday from 8 to 11 p.m. at Carroll Hall (ND). Donations will be ac­cepted, and all money will go to the United Fund. -The 
Observer 
Logan Center Halloween dance will be tonight at the center from 7 to 10 p.m. The dance is sponsored by the Notre Dame I Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded. After the dance there will be a pizza party for volunteers. Also, because of the noon kickoff on Saturday there will be no recreation period that morning. For more informa­tion, call Dennis at 4075. -The Observer 
The Urban Plunge Orientation Workshop is this Sunday, November 1, from 2:30 to 4:30p.m. in the library auditorium. -The Observer 
Le Cercle Francais will be sponsoring a Mass in French on Sunday, November 1 at 4 p.m. at the Log Chapel. Father Leveille will be the celebrant. -The Observer 
Notre Dame excavations at Oppido Mamertina (southern Italy) invites students interested in participat­ing in the 1988 dig to attend a meeting today at 4:30 in 131 Decio. -The Observer 
Ad works would like to remind all students with upcom­ing interviews to make appointments for resume-related needs. Adworks is open Monday thru Friday from 2:30 to 5:30p.m.-The Observer 
The Third Friday Forum at the center for Social Concerns will be today at 12:15 p.m. Professor Jeanne Day,Department of Psychology, will speak on "Improving Educational Assessment." -The Observer 

De•ign Editor ..... ........... Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Matt Guye Design Asoiotant ............... Joe Zadrozny Accent Copy Editor .. Elizabeth Cornwell Typesetters .......................... Tom Elliott Accent Layout................... Michelle Dall ......................................... Shawn Sexton Typists............................. Cathy Haynes News Editor....................... Cathy Stacy ND Day Editor ................... Greg Lucas ........................................... Regis Coccia SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Copy Editor ....................... Liz Panzica Photographer .......... ......... Sharon Khan Sports Copy Editor ......... Maryty Strasen Irish Extrtt Editor ..........................D.C. Viewpoint Layout ................. Julie Ryan Irish Extra Design .. ...... Stewart Garcia 
'ne QMener (USPS 599 2--;4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. 'ne ObRner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2$ per semester) by writina 'ne OI!Mner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
'ne Olleener is a member of 'ne Aaodolted Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, October 30, 1987
The Observer 

Costumes can't mask true nature of Halloween 
Fieldhouse Mall. 
Trick or treat. 
In college? Are you serious? I thought I left that home in sixth grade. 
No matter how old you are, there will always be something to do on Halloween. Little kids hunt for candy, college kids party in disguise, and adults deal with Suzy Lou Who from next door whispering "trick or treat" at 11 p.m. 
For college students, Halloween has a differ­ent meaning. It is not so much how many snick­ers bars or candy corn you get, but what party you went to. In college, even costumes take on a different style. 
When I was a youngster, I would panic about my costume. I never knew what to be, and I was always sure that Paul Harding, my best friend at school, would have the same get-up I did. 
"What am I going to be for Halloween? Help!!" 
Sometimes I would end up as a ghost, or a bum. Once I dressed up in one of those plastic jobs you buy in the local five and dime. I ripped it on my front stoop and went inside to cry all afternoon. I had to steal my sister's M&M's to save my face in school. 
One time I was even Humpty Dumpty --and that was before I developed my beer gut. I dressed up in white and wore this pseudo egg shell made of posterpaper. When I got tired of wearing the shell, I threw it away and became the Good Humor man. 
At Notre Dame these past three Halloweens, I have encountered incredible creativity when it comes to costumes. Last year, one of my roommates went to Goodwill for a disguise. He bought an ugly bowling shirt, broken glass frames, and ugly plaid pants--women's pants. I don't think he still wears the stuff, but he made a hell of a nerd. 
Some enterprising friends of mine decided to be estrogen last year. That's the female hor­mone that makes women women and men not women. Sure, they had to explain the costume a few times, but when they did, they got more guys than the little miss muffit costumes did. 
So what am I going to be for Halloween? The Observer reported yesterday that Spuds MacK­enzie and Jim and ~ammy Baker were the most popular costumes. I mean, be serious. One's a beer-toting dog, and the other would mean pretending to be a minister who is pretending to be a minister. So what do I do? 
I could be a Minnesota Twins fan. Lord knows they've been fooling people for weeks now. All I would need is a handkerchief to wave in a St. Louis person's face. If I party indoors I'll prob­ably be a success. 

There's always the He-Man Woman Hater's Club to fall back on. I could dress in ratty clothes, burp a lot, and tell SMC chicks to get out of my way. I don't know if people would recognize me. 
Maybe I will hop on the estrogen bandwagon and go as Michael Jackson. I'll take my whips and chains, my falsetto voice, and go spin on my toes. Bad idea. Bad pun. 
I could go as Justice, oops I mean Judge Bork. All I need to do is tape a quaker oats box to my face and have everyone yell at me for being a conservative nut. They would probably send me home early, but the Joe Biden look-alike would have to lie to do it. 
I could always dress up as a Def Leppard fan. I probably couldn't grow my hair long enough by Saturday. At least I wouldn't get carded at Chip's. They would think I belong there. 
At a school like Notre Dame, there are to many smart, creative people here. The costume competition gets tougher each year. I would love to go as Superman, Batman, or even a member ofthe Laser Tag Academy, but they don't make extra large Halloween costumes. Besides, that's not creative. 
Oh well. Does Spuds have a spot on his right or left eye? 

"MISCHIEF NIGHT MADNESS" FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30 
7:00-7: 30 pm Pep Rally 
7:30 pm Hayrides begin-from Stepan to White Field 
7: 45 pm Bonfire on White Field Hot Chocolate & Donuts! 
8: 15 pm Hayrides begin-from White Field to Rockne Memorial 
8:45 pm Outdoor Movie at the Rock: 
ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN 
Friday, October 30, 1987 The Observer page 3 
Grace Hall debates raise relevant issues at ND 
--~---~--, 
By COURTNEY JAMIESON 
News Staff 
The first of nine Grace Hall debates opened last night ar­guing the issue of tariffs. 
According to Seamus Bren­nan, chairman of the social concerns committee at Grace, the purpose of the debates is to educate the members of Grace Hall and the greater Notre Dame community about the important issues of the day. 
Brennan said, "We want Notre Dame students to get a better understanding of issues in the world, and the debates are the perfect opportunity to learn about relevant issues." 
The debates were started by Joe McKenna then assistant rector of Grace. Brennan said,"Mckenna is from Ireland where debates are very impor­tant there, and he wanted to bring some of that over here." 
Brennan added, "The debates went over incrediably well last year. with the guys, and there were a number of let­ters from faculty expressing their excitement and the fact that they were impressed." 
The participants in the debates are volunteers from each floor. Each team consists of four members, three com­petitors and one alternate. The teams are judged in five areas: 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT HE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, 
NIGHTWINDS (NILES NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R.'S (LAPORTE). 
analysis and definition, evidence, organization, reputa­tion rebuttle and delivery by members of the various depart­ments. Last night's judge was Professor Thomas Swartz of the economics department. 
The members of the teams are given three days to re­search a given topic. According to Brennan the topics are kept secret between the rector and one of the R.A. 's until three days before each debate so that no one will have an unfair ad­vantage. 
The debates are structured such that the affirmative side begins, each competitor having four minutes to speak. The negative side then has four minutes to respond. 
After each team has finished both sides present a two minute summary. Brennan said the debates are a knockout compe­tition that work torwards one ultimate winner. 
The debates are open to the public, and announcements have been posted around campus. The debates will con­tinue tonight through Nov. 23. 
North Dining Hall still congested 
By KRISTIN KOMMERS 
News Staff 
The construction underway on North Dining Hall, begun just after this summer's Spe­cial Olympics, will continue throughout the year and into the latter part of the summer. 
The purpose of the construc­tion is to relieve the over­crowding and congested lines, which will increase even more after the completion of the two new girls' dorms on the quad. Quicker, more efficient food lines and a homey atmosphere such as that of South Dining Hall are the primary goals of the construction. 
Work on the building will begin indoors in early February; at that time, the long lines and waits are ex­pected to be at their worst. 
Director of Food Services Bill Hickey has offered to open Stepan Center for meals in the meantime, the most viable so­lution if students are open to the idea. 
In addition to the overcrowd­ing is the inconvenience of not being able to approach the dining hall from the rear from the newer dorms. The result is 
• Make • SllallJ)!
:• .......... .. 
! ...Will I '" 
; CAR RENTAL 
•
•
: Weekends on wheels starting
• 
: ! 
; 
•
•
:
• 
!!!!!!!!!!.·::·············································· 
: as low as $49.95. Free pick up and delivery. : i call 2n-6600 i 
immense congestion at lunch and dinner because people are not using the far line closest to Haggar. 
Hickey has given several dorms the opportunity to use South as an al-ternative, but because of the long walk, stu­dents are reluctant to do so. 
Special dinners and events have been limited this year as a result of the costly food fight that occurred after the Mic­higan game. Says Student Life Coordinator John Wilson, 
" Because of the food fight, we've lost the rights to have food events that would help ease the tension and stress." 
He feels the most effective 
solution at this time would be 
for stu-dents to take Hickey up 
on his offer and start going to 
South. "When the construction 
does move indoors, it will alle­
viate a lot of the difficulty if 
the dorms that were offered to 
go to South took the opportu­
nity. They're going to be 
closing sections at a time, and 
people will be waiting in lines 
from 45 ~inutes to an ho.Jr." 
One Hundred Years of Notre Dame Football 
by Gene Schoor 
Introduction by Ara Parseghian Foreward by Johnny Lujack 
150 Photos Throughout 
Ultimate Tribute to America's Ultimate College Football Powerhouse 
Now Available $24.95 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 2nd Floor Book Dept. 
Hours -Sat. Oct. 31st 8 to 5 


Friday, October 30, 1987
The Observer
a e 4 



Street people ••••••••••••••••••••••
• Use this coupon at •
picked up in 
: COUNTY MARKET : NYC by city • to redeem $2.00 off our : 
: 4 or 6 foot giant deli • 
Associate Press 
: submarines : 
NEW YORK-The city moved 
more mentally ill homeless : *orders must be :
people from the streets into 
hospital beds Thursday despite 
accusations by civil rights ac­
:• placed 2 days in •: tivists that the program is either a sham or illegal. 
Six homeless men and wo­: advance* : 
men were brought in to a 28-bed ward at Bellevue Hospital on Wednesday; two others were brought in Thursday morning to be bathed, deloused, clothed, instructed on their legal rights 
Student ID Cards
and evaluated. 
The Observer I Sharon Kahn
Mayor Edward Koch, who observed the process Wednes­day evening, defended the ef­
Eurail Passes 
fort, an expanded version of a program he announced last spring. He said only one of those detained thus far had to 
Language Programs 


to Fall Fine Arts Drive, WSND­
Chicago, IL 60611
FM, 301 LaFortune Hall, Notre ~UNCIL 
(312)951-0585
Dame, IN 46556. 
In addition to the fall fundraiser, WSND also con­ducts a spring fund drive in late April, "There's a good one­third of the year that we're not being budgeted for," Pesta said. "Christmas is expensive and summer is expensive." 
WSND, which has been a primarily classical music sta­tion for nearly 40 years, also broadcasts programs featuring jazz, big band, opera, broad­way, reggae, classic rock and Irish folk music. 
"I think we;ve done a good job of distinguishing ourselves from the other public radio sta­tions of which there are no be har ;,cuffed because of a his­tory of violence. 
Koch has said the Project Help program is a way of treat­ing those homeless people who are unable to help themselves, 
' 
many of them patients dis­charged from state mental hospitals in recent years be­cause of court rulings prompted by concern for their civil rights. 

Radio 
continued from page 1 
will be distributed to local busi­nesses. Donations may be sent 
1987-1988 Air Fares From Chicago 
0/W  R/T  
Caracas  $180  $340  
London  $220  $420  
Shannon  $235  $450  
Paris  $240  $478  
Budapest  $290  $560  
Tel Aviv  $390  $760  

Departures available from most major cities 29 East delaware Place 
Friday, October 30, 1987 The Observer page 5 
Halloween costumes reflect 'escapism' 
very gmch into musketeer out­
Associated Press 
fits and Amadeus." In previous years, said 
NEW YORK -Romance and Centrowitz, "I had women horror, not necessarily com­walking around wearing Mi­bined, are the hot themes for chael Jackson jackets and adults dressing up this Hallo­men's pirate costumes." But ween, partly because "people now, she said, women want want to get their mind off the traditionally feminine cos­stock market," a leading cos­tumes and "men are wearing tumer said Thursday. sequins, pink, ruffles and 
"There's a degree of es­knickers." capism," added Mark Beige, Beige said many of his president of Rubie's Costume female customers will be Co. in Queens, which also out­dressing as harem girls, fits off-Broadway and televi­French maids, sorceresses or sion shows. "she-devils." The men want to 
"Everything in the Romantic be Dracula, a gorilla or one of period is going like hotcakes," the Three Musketeers. agreed Jeanette Centrowitz, co­A costume that leaves little owner of Universal Costumes to the imagination was in Manhattan's theater dis­modeled Thursday by Elvira, 
The Observer I Jim Carroll trict. 
the Los Angeles television per­
Discussing Digger 
talks range from basketball to life under the Golden "We have ballgowns going sonality who presides over a Varsity Basketball coach Digger Phelps visits dorms Dome. Here he talks with an attentive audience in out the door one after the "creature feature" show. annually to converse with students. Digger's famous Fisher Hall. other," she said. "The men are During a visit to Rockefeller 
Center, she drew stares in her
*********************************** 
signature attire, garish ~ J.P.'S PIZZA ~t<-0;.o.,~<o.,, ~ makeup, a clingy black dress with a slit to the hips and a dan­

~ FREE DELIVERY ''&&~&06/"&o, ~ 
gerously low neckline, a dag­
.._ • <i>o-* 
...-.8'~ ger belt buckle and black nail
* Ave. Delivery Time 25-30 min. -~ * polish. 
* * 
Elvira has marketed the out­
*~ 1-14" pizza with 3 items & *! 
fit as a Halloween costume. So ~ FREE X-Cheese -$10.00 ! what will she wear? "I thought I might do a com­* * plete reversal and go as Marie
: 2-16", 4 item pizzas ! 
Osmond," she said.! w1 free x-cheese-$13.75 ! Horror-movie monsters are a heavy influence this Hallo­
* Hours: * 
ween, said Beige, especially
! Mon-Thurs 11-11 ! 
Jason from "Friday the 13th"
* Fri-Sat 11 am-1 am * 
and Freddie Krueger from
1511 Portage 234-4151 ! 
"Nightmare on Elm Street." 
***************************** 
' 
"· 





---~-----~---­
Friday, October 30, 1987
page 6 The Observer 



Superpowers agree on possible December summit 
Associated Press two leaders meet the first week 
in December. 
MOSCOW -The superpowers U.S. officials, also speaking agreed on a summit agenda on condition of anonymity, said and cleared the way for Soviet the third meeting between leader Mikhail Gorbachev to Reagan and Gorbachev could 
meet President Reagan in the be arranged for late November United States later this year, a or early December. 
Soviet spokesman said Foreign Ministry spokesman Thursday. Boris Pyadyshev told reporters No date was announced, but the leaders wduld sign a treaty 
one official said privately that to scrap intermediate-range 
the Soviets are proposing the nuclear missiles and discuss 
Tax increase, deficit bill refused in House 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The House on Thursday temporarily scuttled a $12 billion tax in­crease and otlier parts of a Democratic deficit-reduction bill, insisting that Congres­sional and White House negotiators first be given a chance 'o produce a plan for attacking the government's debt. 
Immediately after losing a 217-203 vote, Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, served notice that the House will have to face the issue again, but without an attached welfare-overhaul provision. He acknowledged that the welfare section, which has nothing to do with reducing 
the  deficit,  caused  several  
Democrats to desert  on  the  
vote.  

But welfare was only part of the problem, insisted Rep. Bob Michel of Illinois, the Republi­can leader. "What the mem­bers have attempted to express here is (to) give this bipartisan negotiating team (representing Congress and the White House) a chance to come up with a deficit plan," Michel said. 
By the vote, House members simply refused to consider the Democratic bill, since the procedures under which they were operating offered no real­istic chance to amend the tax 


Mayor 
continued from page 1 
His victory over west side op­ponent Richard Jasinski fos­tered a "Democrats for Bax­meyer" campaign in that area, causing a split within the party. Kernan and Baxmeyer have of­fered conflicting statements about the severity of the split. 
Baxmeyer has had a much easier time gaining support within his party. 
Both candidates list eco­nomic development as a high priority if elected, promoting the city positively. Baxmeyer and Kernan also have made area education and govern­ment efficiency part of their campaign promises. 
The campaign has had its share of name-calling. Some supporters of Baxmeyer have been associating Kernan with out-going mayor Parent, who remains unpopular with some areas of South Bend, particu­larly with his role in the build­ing of a minor-league baseball stadium. 
A letter from "Democrats for Baxmeyer" to voters said "A vote for Joe Kernan is a vote for Roger Parent. A vote for Carl Baxmeyer is a vote for Richard Jasinski, our can­didate in the primary." 
or welfare sections. 
That forced the House Rules Committee, which the leader­ship controls, to reconvene and lay out new procedures under which the bill would be consid­ered. The procedures and the bill will remain the same, ex­cept that the welfare provisions were stripped off and put aside for the year. 
Wright assumed that change would bring back into the fold enough Democrats to pass the bill. 
While the House was debat­ing the Democratic bill, the def­icit negotiators were meeting behind closed doors elsewhere in the Capitol in an effort to produce a proposal within an­other week. At the White House, President Reagan told his negotiators, headed by Treasury Secretary James Baker III, that "it sounds like you're taling about the right is­sues." 
Baker later defined those is­sues to mean spending reduc­tions. 
The president and most Republicans in Congress want to rely more on spending reduc­tions and less on taxes to slash the record deficit. After the stock market plunged last week, Reagan appeared to sof­ten his anti-tax stance, agreed to negotiate with Congress and pledged to consider any Dem­ocratic plan that mixed spend­
cuts and tax increases. 
cuts in long-range strategic ar­senals. 
He said they also would dis­cuss limits on developing the proposed U.S. space-based missile defense program known as "Star Wars." The Soviet-U.S. dispute over the system prevented agreement on a summit date during Sec­retary of State George Shultz's visit to Moscow last week. 
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, carrying a let­ter from the Soviet Communist Party general secretary to Reagan, was to arrive in Wash­ington on Friday for further talks. The Soviet official said the letter contains the proposal for a summit date. 
Shevardnadze was in Prague, Czechoslovakia, Thursday to meet with Warsaw Pact foreign ministers. 
"Presently, we have an un­derstanding that together with the agreement on medium­range and shorter-range mis­siles, questions relative to stra­tegic offensive weapons and the ABM (anti-ballistic mis­sile) treaty will be thoroughly discussed at a summit meeting," Pyadyshev said. "This is sufficient for a summit to take place this year." 
He said a summit "is fixed for the end of this year." 


LIP SYNC CONTEST 
North vs South Quad Saturday, November 7 Stepan Center 9:00pm 
PRIZES ($$$)
II interested acts should contact Maura at 239-7757 or 283-2745 by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5. Sponsored by SUB. 

Movie poster sale 

Hilh Tec:fiSemce wttllout the ..... Price. 
544~!. !YeM!:&qf
• 
WE ALWAYS CHANGE POINTS-CONDENSER-PLUGS 

• 
WE CHANGE AT NO EXTRA COST (IF NEEDED) DISTRIBUTOR CAP-ROJOR-PCV VALVE-3 PLUG WIRES 

• 
WE ADJUST TIMING-CARBURETION (EXCEPT WHEN FACTORY SEALED) ·r 

• 
WE WARRANTY 12 MONTHS or 12,000 MILES. 

• 
WE NOW OVERHAUL CARBURETORS Call For Prices 


We are your engine Performance Experts 
CALL US AT 233-9318 
For an appointment M·F 8 to 5/Sat. 8·1 
801 E. ~ SOUTH IEID 

ue Blockers Are Cool! 

•
You won't believe your eyes 

•Clearer, 
Sharper, More 3D Vision 

•A 
vailable in your prescription for the _first time 

•Blocks 
harmful UV rays and vision blurring blue 

•A 
viailable in the latest designer frame styles

•Only 
at Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical 

•Ask 
for your student discount 


~~!r:r~~;~:za Rd  :or.:~~~:a~;~:, ml~~miz··;·:•wi•i•~ii·~~-~~illlllllll  
acn.a from Scclttadalc Mall  ncx.t doOr to Oleo Dru~t  
291-4000  258-5000  

~----------------------------~--~-----------------------------------------------------­

Friday, October 30, 1987 
The Observer page 7 
Stock market resurge.~s from recent loss 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street regained a measure of its lost vitality Thursday, drawing a second wind that blew the Dow Jones industrial average up more than 90 points in its third­largest gain ever. 
The Dow average closed up 
91.51 points at 1,938.33. The average regained 5 percent of its value after struggling to ~ 
would return to their normal
·1J 
closing times on Monday. 
. ~-··-·"" O~T 1Z?t "The market seemed quite 
, ..••1 ..y-~ orderly," said Jack Garry, an 
,. •: I IIIJ\L' ~-­
: \llrll \~t. \\.~\t,J. w~ y 
Autbrnlic Szechuan and lhf' llunan Taste ( PluR Cantonear and American J 
LUNCHEON C€l€DRAT€ SPECIAL' 
t 'hoirf' uf IU Comblnalion 
t•lallrn. lnl'ludrs soup, 
tRK roll, frlrd rirt & hot 
l•ra. St-rvt-d 12: JOpm 
lpm. Mon. -•·ri. 
83.45 
-0PEN7DAYS­IJO IJIXIE HIGHWAY SOUTH BUSINESS U.S. Jlln ROSELAI\:D ISOUTIIBENDl ol RANIIJ\I.L'S INN IZI91 Z72·7J76 
Are you considering professional school? and especially AnnMarie 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. Come Learn Ahout Harvard's Two-Year Master's 
FOOT LONG or REGULAR -WHITE or WHEAT
Program in Public Policy. Leading to eitlrer 
6 FOOT PARTY SOBS AVAILABLE
tire Master in Public Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. 
Asst. Cold Cuts Ham, Salami, Spice Loaf 
JOINT DEOREE OPTIONS AND CROSS-REGIS'IRATION 
Club Combo
OPPORTUNITIES wrrn 011-ffiR SCHOOLS 
Ham, Roast Beef, Turkey Corned Beef
MEET WITH A KENNEDYSCHOOL REPRESENTATIVE 
DATE: TIME: l.OC'ATION: 

Smoked Ham 
Pepperoni
Moa. , Nov l 
Served with your choice of:
ll:OO pm 
mayo, mustard, italian dressing, 
PI.EASE CONTACT YOUR CAREER PI.ACEMENT 
ialapenos, banana peppers, and pickles
OI'FICE FOR TIUS INFORMATION 
OPEN MON·SAT 10 am-10 pm
272-HIKE 
SUN 11 am-9 pm
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! 
18109 &.R. 23 NEAR LJ'UTtor...J.. 

UNITED WAY DRIVE 

SUPPORT THE UNITED WAY! 

ll~lliJUf'f 
analyst with Butcher & Singer 
· f<'adlilif'llo 
Inc. in Philadelphia. "It was 
r 
not as frantic today as we've
SUNUAV 
seen over the last week and a
SPECIAL 
half" since the market's $500 
l'hoic:e• ur l:i Uinn.-n•. 
lnl'ludrs "rouup, "'"'am.-d ril'l', t•J.:,g rull wnd h·a. 
David's finally 21 ! HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
\ \ Love, \Team America & the Drummers, 
Meatball Pepperoni-Meatball French Dip Vegetarian Tuna Salad Chicken Salad 
cheese, lettuce, 
billion collapse Oct. 19. 
But other analysts remained 
wary. 
"I see some stabilizing, but 
we've still got some problems 
out there," said Ronald Doran, 
head of institutional trading for 
First Albany Corp. He cau­
tioned that despite Thursday's 
peformance, the market 
remains vulnerable to fluctua­
tions in the dollar. 
Although the lower dollar carries the possibility of higher inflation and higher interest rates, the stock market may see the currency's decline as positive, said A.C. Moore, an analyst with Argus Research Corp., because it "is associated with help for our export indus­try." 
Security Beat 
Tuesday, October 27 
2:45p.m. A Sorln Hall resident re­ported the then of a Florida license plate from his car while parked In Green Field over the weekend. 
7:40p.m. Notre Dame Security cited a man for possession of drugs and alcohol in the J.A.C.C. 
8 p.m. Notre Dame Security as­sisted Elkhart Pollee In an Investi­gation of robbery suspects at the Def Leppard concert. 
8:25p.m. Notre Dame Security ar­rested a man for public Intoxication and assaulting an officer In the 
J.A.C.C. The man was taken to St. Joseph County Jail for booking. 
8:40p.m. Notre Dame Security cited a man for narcotics possession In a restroom of the J.A.C.C. The drugs were conflscated and the case has been turned over to the Prosecuter's Office. 
10 p.m. Two women were cited by Notre Dame Security for narcotics possession In the J .A.C.C. parking lot outside Gate 10. The drugs were con­flscated and the case has been turned over to the Prosecuter's Office. 
Wednesday, October 28 
2:20p.m. A Badin Hall resident re­ported the then of her chemistry book from the South Dining Hall at about noon. The book Is valued at $45. 
4:30p.m. An off-campus student re­ported that his car had been struck while parked In the Dl lot between I :OO p.m. on Tuesday and 4:10 p.m. on Wednesday. The car was only slightly damaged. 
Thursday, October 29 
6:15 a.m. A University employee reported that his radio was stolen from Stepan Chemistry Hall between 
I :20 p.m. on Wednesday and 6 a.m. on Thursday. His loss Is estimated at $75. 
Nominee 
continued from page 1 
rejected by the Senate Friday. Ginsburg and Bork are gener­ally viewed as being ideologi­cally similar. 
If confirmed, Ginsburg would be one of the youngest justices ever to sit on the court. He is 41. Ginsburg, a former Harvard Law School professor and head of the Justice Depar­tment antitrust division, would be the first Jew to sit on the high court since the resignation of Abe Fortas in 1969. 
Seeking to head off the lengthy debate that led to Bork's defeat, Reagan said, "If these hearings take more than three weeks to get going, the American people will know what's up." 
Ginsburg was reported to be the choice of Attorney General Edwin Meese III, while White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker was urging the appoint­ment of Federal Appeals Court Judge Anthony Kennedy of Sacramento, Calif., who would have been a less controversial choice. 
On Monday, Baker sounded out five key Republican senators about 13 or 14 poten­tial nominees and, according to Republican sources, half of those named drew at least some opposition and Ginsburg was among those whose name drew objections. 
Sources familiar with the struggle said that the chances for Kennedy's nomination col­lapsed when Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., threatened to filibuster a Kennedy nomination on the grounds he was not conserva­tive enough. 
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph Biden, D­Del., who played a pivotal role in the rejection of Bork by a 58-42 vote last week, reportedly has told administration offi­cials that some of Ginsburg's views are highly controversial. 
mere 0.33-point gain Wednes­day. 
The broader market, which had lagged behind the blue­chip issues represented in the Dow, also improved with four stocks making money for every one that lost. 
The market moved steadily higher despite a drop m the dol­lar and losses on stock ex­changes in the Far East. 
The market value of Ameri­can stocks, as measured by Wilshire Associates, rose $106.57 billion, or 4.73 percent, to $2.36 trillion after. On Wed­nesday, stocks fell $12 billion. 
Volume came to 258.14 mil­lion shares as trading again ended at 2 p.m. Markets have been closing two hours early to allow people to catch up on paperwork, and will have shor­tened hours again Friday. 
It was not immediately known whether the exchanges 

.(j~..,
« 20% Discount 
sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

''WHY A CAREER IN PUBLIC ACCOUNTING?'' 
Speaker: Peter R. Scanlon, Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand an international Big Eight public accounting firm 
Date: November 2, 1987 Time: 4:15 p.m. Place: Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
Room 122 
Everyone is welcome and encouraged TO ATTEND!!! 
page 8 
College Briefs 
Have your book and a refund, too. Some USC students managed to get a refund for textbooks they still owned. The students took their receipts to the Tams bookstore, got the same books off the shelves, and took them to the returns counter--where they received a refund for the "returned" books. Offi­cials say the scam could not work at the USC bookstore, since it has a computerized book­identification system. -The National On Campus Report 
Due to run dry this month. Smokers will soon be unable to buy cigarettes on the University of Arizona cam us. When v ndin machines are 
Drunk-driving deaths on rise 
The Observer 
empty, they will be removed. Cigarettes are not sold elsewhere on campus. Smokers bought 47,000 packs from the machines last year. -The National On Campus Report 
Thebeermaybewarmby the time University of Colorado football fans get served at games this year. Under a new policy, beer vendors must check the identification of customers to avoid making sales to underage drinkers. It may be slow going to check even a small minority in the 51,400-seat football stadium. And officials say if there are any problems, they will completely turn off the tap for vendor sales. -The National On Cam us Re ort 
Friday, October 30, 1987 
Real couch potatoes have hit the market, according to the National Association of College Stores--but they are not people, they're soft, brown pillows shaped like a spud. And for those who like to sleep late, there's an alarm clock shaped like a softball--it can be hurled against the wall to make it stop ringing. -The National On Campus Report 
A development worth watching in the California state legislature is the bill to require free AIDS testing on all California State University cam­puses. Already passed by one house, the bill would also mandate confidentiality--no names, no social security numbers. -The National On Campus Report 
------~------~--------~--­

The Observer I Sharon Kahn 
Saint Mary's student Sarah Huahes work:> Or:' a cosh•me for a performance of "Thursday's Child," a play written by Assistant Profesor of Commumcat1on and Theatre Julie Jensen. 
MICHIANA'S FINEST & FRESHEST SEAFOOD 
* Served in our warm & casual dining ~oom. 
*Cooked for carrv out. *Styled in attractive-party trays. 
~ Cape Cod Cafe ~ &Market 
420 Wc'l W"'hinglon S1. 
ANOTHER SERVICE BY 
page 9 
Bishops reject U.S. proposal for women 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY The worldwide synod of bishops Thursday condemned discrim· ination against women but rejected U.S. recommen­
dations  for  opening  all  non­ 
ordained  ministries  in  the  
church to women.  

In a final document of recom­mendations to be presented to Pope John Paul II and in a sep­arate message addressed to the world, the bishops spoke in mostly general terms of the role of women in the Roman Catholic Church. 
The prelates also said Cath­olic politicians should uphold church policy and fight for so­cial justice, human rights and religious freedom. 
American bishops said their specific proposals on women, included in an early draft, had been cut out in the final stages and were not included in the final document. But they said they were satisfied that the principle of their suggestions was upheld. 
Phone: 121'11 2.14-5'15'1 
Friendly, homelike 
atmosphere 1893 Inn Near universities and downtown 
• Soulh BcnJ. IN 4o001 
"When you have to say some­
thing which will pull from 
every culture, it has to be 
couched in terms that are very 
general," Archbishop Rembert 
Weakland of Milwaukee, Wis., 
told a news conference. 
About 220 bishops from 
around the world took part in 
the monthlong synod, an advi­
sory body convened by the pon­
tiff to examine the role of lay 
Catholics in church and soci­
ety. The assembly ends Friday 
with a Mass in St. Peter's 
Basilica. 
U.S. bishops and prelates from other countries told the in general sessions that the church should take specific steps to give women a greater role. 
Archbishop John May of St. Louis, president of the U.S. bis­hops' conference, last week there was a "strong con­sensus" at the synod that all non-ordained ministries be open to women. 
These ministries include acolytes, lectors and altar ser­vers, people who assist func­tions during Mass such as light­ing candles and preparing the altar. 
Under church law, women are not permitted to serve in these positions. But in the United States and some other countries women sometimes carry out those functions infor­mally, without official installa­tion. 
UNIVERSITY 
FOOD SERVICES 
Due to the early start of the Navy game (Noon) the Dining Halls will be open at 8:00 am -12:00 noon for Brunch of Saturday, October 31, 1987. A special Candlelight Dinner will be at the Dining Halls following the game. You are cordially invited to attend. Guest tickets are available for $6.00 per person for all you can eat! 
Dinner Menu 

Beef Barley Soup Chicken Tarragon Seafood Stirfry Steamship Round of Beef Steamed Rice Baked Potato wl Sour Cream and Chives Broccoli Spears 
Asst. Hard Rolls Salad Bar Waldorf Salad Double Orange Whip Raspberry NutraSweet Jello Chocolate Ice Cream Assorted Fruit Tarts Fruit Cocktail 
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, October 30, 1987 
Tragedy evokes new affection for ND 
I am writing this on my last day here at Notre Dame. Last Monday night, my dad called to tell me that my mom's condition is not getting any better (she has cancer), and that it's time for me to come home. They told her that she has three months to live. 
My first reaction to this news was shock--for the last year I have pretended that things were someday going to suddenly be OK and that we would look back on these times and re­member how hard they were. Now I have to face the reality that sometimes you don't always get what you want in life, and that the real job begins when you learn to accept that. 
Coni Rich 
guest column 
And now comes the hard part. I promised myself that I wouldn't feel sad about leaving Notre Dame, but un­fortunately this hasn't been easy. This place has been my home for the last three years of my life. I have become a new person because of my experi­ences here, and the people that I have had the good fortune to come to love are now my family. I guess you could say that my real intention here in writing this is to tell those of you out there who haven't come to love Notre Dame yet just how important it's be­come to me. 
"I guess you could say that my real intention here in writing this is to tell those of you out there who haven't come to love Notre Dame yet just how important it's become to me.'' 
Obviously, the first thing that enters my mind when I think of the last few years is my huge family here. I'm thinking about the friends from my dorm freshman year, classmates who helped me out with understanding something, professors who were com­passionate and patient when I just couldn't seem to hit the deadlines, Uni-
Doonesbury 
versity officials who were there to offer advice and support, all of the workers and secretaries who had a smile on a rainy day, the landlady who became mom number 2--I think that I could fill volumes with the names and faces of those who made a difference. I know that I will never forget the love or en­couragement that I felt from so many people, and I know that some of the advice I have received will always be remembered. 
Withdrawing from school was the second hardest thing I've had to do these last few days (the first hardest was facing the reality of the situation), and I know that there will be days in Phoenix when I'll wish I were sitting in class trying to pay attention and keep my eyes off the clock. Even though I always told myself I would never miss all of the reading, the writing, and all of the stress of being a student, I can honestly say that I miss it already. Being a student is a wonderful thing when you compare it with other things you could be doing at this point in your life. 
"I will miss being here very· much. I'll miss the people, the classes, the games, the smiles, and the love that seems to hang over this place like a mist sometimes." 
I think that through all of my thinking these last couple of days there has been one thing that really stands out--quit feeling sorry for yourself because you have to leave Notre Dame. I may be getting on a plane Tuesday and I may be two thousand miles away from here, but the fact is that I will never really leave Notre Dame. I may not be ablf to sit at the Grotto or walk by the lake or climb the stairs in O'Shag, but those things are with me -they're tucked away in a place in my heart that I'll depend on often to get me through when things seem difficult. 
I will miss being here very much. I'll miss the people, the classes, the games, the smiles, and the love that seems to hang over this place like a mist some­times. I'll miss driving to school in four feet of snow and complaining about it all the way, I'll miss waiting in line at the dining hall and wondering if there isn't some way to make them move faster, and I'll miss seeing the football player that used to make me walk into things. I'll miss going to the library for four hours to sit and drink coffee in the Pit and wonder how I was ever going to get all of my stuff done, and I'll miss the special friends who always had time to listen, or to talk, or even to yell at me to get me back on track sometimes. 
These are some of the things I will never forget, regardless of how much I miss them. My hope is that those of you that are here now will see these kinds of things around you a little more clearly and enjoy them. I hope that my family in PLS will take a few minutes to see some of the deeper issues here with them now in addition to the ones they read in books, and I hope that the seniors who are planning their lives are happy in doing so and not afraid or des­perate. One of my largest hopes is that I've made some small difference here­-I hope that those who are closest to me will see that difference, and above all, I hope that I can come back someday and graduate. 
Don't think that I'm trying to sell my rose colored glasses. I realize that everything isn't as wonderful and idealistic here as I think it is, but if one person feels a little better about what they have here, then I'll feel like it was worthwhile. 
I love Notre Dame. It will never be far from me from now on, and this makes me know deep down inside that I'll make it. It may be a little tough, but I know that as long as I can sit at the Grotto within my thoughts or say hello to one of the people here or even catch a game once in a while, there's nothing I can't handle. 
I wish all of you here at this special place much luck in all you do, love and happiness with your friends and families, and success in all your en­deavors. Be safe and happy and look around once in a while and like what you see--believe me, you'll never be sorry you did. 
Coni Rich was formerly a senior in the Program of Liberal Studies. 

Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in View­point. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.O. Box Q, View­point Department, Notre Dame, IN. 

46556 
Garry Trudeau 
THAT'51T, SIR. 7EI..J.-THe 
Campus Quote 
"Depreciation deduction on income tax return: Us senior citizens treat that like our sexuality. You either use it or you lose it." 
Ray M. Powell Professor of Accountancy October 8, 1986 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . . ........... Kevtn Becker Business Manager. .. . .. . .. .............. Bnan Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor . . .... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager . .... David Culligan News Editor ... . . .. . Chns Bednarski Advertising Manager . . . .... Mehnda Chapleau News Editor. ..................... J1m Atley Production Manager... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer ts the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Viewpoint Editor ........Chns Murphy Projects Manager... Mark Mclaughlin 
Sports Editor .. . .. Dennts Comgan Systems Manager ... Shawn Sexton lhe administration of either tnstitution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor .. . .. Mtchael Naughton Controller . . . . .. Tracy Sch1ndele possible. Unsigned editonals represent the opinton of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Samt Mary's Edttor. Sandy Cenme.le Graphtc Arts Manager Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of thetr authors. Column space 
Photo Editor ... Jtm Carroll is available to all members of the school communtty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3,1968 


Sophomore fullback Braxston Banks Is laying the the Irish but beyond Notre Dame as well. Here he foundations for a successful career not only for goes In for a score against Pitt. 
Irish fullback 
Banks laying foundations 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Irish fullback Braxton Banks is living proof that a structure is only as strong as its founda­tion. As Banks completes the foundation of his Notre Dame football career, he is creating the foundation for his future. 
"I feel as though I am just finishing the basics, putting in the foundation," says Banks, a sophomore. "When you get there, you start building, and hopefully with time, every­thing comes around." 
Banks and the rest of Notre Dame's running game have definitely come around this season. Against USC, four run­ners ran for over 50 yards, with Banks logging 59 of the Irish total of 351. 
For Banks, the absence of one big star in the backfield is an advantage to the entire of­fense. 
''As a unit, we work together and learn our strengths and weaknesses," Banks says. "As individual runners, we capi­talize on each others weaknes­ses and show our strengths where others are lacking. So, as a group we are all getting better." 
As a freshman, Banks played in 10 games and started two, averaging 4.3 yards per carry. He also caught 10 passes for 55 yards and two touchdowns. That's how a foundation is laid. 
After spring practice, Banks was listed number one on the depth chart at fullback, one of the strongest positions on the Irish offense. 
"As a freshman, there was so much to learn," Banks recalls. "You think, 'Coach wants me to do this, do that, make that cut'. But now, I feel comfortable with the system. It's almost like being back in high school. You do what you have to do, but you also have fun with it." 
So far this season, Banks has had some fun, going 125 yards on 29 carries and scoring three touchdowns, despite a strained knee ligament suffered during the Michigan game. The injury was not serious enough to re­quire surgery, and Banks was back in form after about three weeks. 
Part of the foundation of Banks' game comes from working with teammates Mark Green, Tim Brown, Byron Spruell and Chuck Lanza. He says watching them and imitat­ing their work habits has had a big effect on his performance. 
see BANKS, page 2 Frank Leahy 


Banks celebrating with his teammates. "As a unit weaknesses." we work to together and learn our strengths and 
made a diving, open-field, touchdown-saving tackle of
Leahy 
Army's star running back, Doc 
Blanchard, after Blanchard continued from page 1 had broken into the clear in 
Irish territory. Army never consecutive national title. The threatened again. The outcome Irish had pummelled their first of the game ultimately led to five opponents by a combined Leahy's second national title. score of 177-18. The stage was In 1947, Notre Dame steam­set for a classic confrontation. rolled over all of its opponents, 
What ensued was perhaps including a 38-7 burial of third­one of the most emotional, ranked USC in Los Angeles to hard-fought battles in college end the year, to capture its football history. Some fans second straight championship. bought tickets from scalpers Mter finishing third to Army's for over $200 to see Notre Dame Glenn Davis in the Reisman and Army struggle to a 0-0 tie balloting in 1946, Lujack won in a game whose score was not the trophy in '47. indicative of the action that Despite going 9-0-1 in 1948, took place. Notre Dame drove the Irish were denied a third to Army's four-yard-line in the straight title because of a second quarter, but the Black season-ending tie at unranked Knights took over on downs. USC. But the Irish bounced Johnny Lujack of the Irish back up to number one in 1949 as they trounced ranked teams Tulane, Michigan State and USC along the way to their third national title in four years. In 1949, Notre Dame had yet another Reisman winner in end Leon Hart. Hart and Yale's Larry Kelley, the 1937 winner, are the only two linemen to ever win the award. 
Three more successful seasons followed, and then Leahy capped off his incredible career by leading the Irish to yet another national champion­ship in 1953. Notre Dame scored with six seconds left before a capacity crowd at Notre Dame Stadium to tie Iowa, preserving the unbeaten season for Leahy who left Notre Dame with an 87-11-9 record. 
Terry Brennan, who had played on three national cham­pionships for the Irish under 
Banks 
continued from page 1 
"They are always improv­ing, always practicing to get better," Banks says. "When I'd get down and felt it's wasn't worth it, I'd watch them plug­ging away. I knew that if I worked like that, maybe every­thing would come to me; maybe not right away, but sometime." 
Banks also credits running back coach Jim Strong with hel­ping him improve his perfor­mance. 
"He pushes you when you don't want to be pushed. You might think 'what's the point?', but he knows what it takes to be successful on the football field." 
Banks says he never thought of joining the Irish during high school ("I didn't know where Notre Dame was."), but the lrish offered the 6-2, 207-pound back from Hayward, Calif., what he wanted. 
"As far as picking a school, Notre Dame was definitely the best option for me," Banks says. "They'd give me a good education, an ensured educa­tion. Other places didn't stress academics. 
"I see football as a means to an end. I can get a future from this school, and the people here hopefully get something from me, as a football player, in return." 
Leahy, took over for his former mentor in 1954, and promptly led the Irish to a 9-1 record and the number-four ranking in the final AP polls. Brennan's Irish were 8-2 in 1955, but the team fell upon hard times 1n 1956. In the worst season in Irish his­tory to that point, Notre Dame finished 2-8 after opening the season as the third-ranked team in the nation. Humiliating losses to Michigan State and Oklahoma at home (47-14 and 40-0, respectively) led to dis­enchantment with Brennan. Despite his squad's poor record, Irish quarterback Paul Hornung won the Reisman Trophy. he would later go on to NFL stardom with Vince Lom­bardi's Green Bay Packers. 
The future for Banks looks bright if his ambitions are any indication. 
"I want to be a success," he says. "I want to make a lot of money. Football brought me here, and from here I'll go to the working world to make money. I'm going to need it to get what I want to have, which is security." 
As for today, Banks has some ideas about the Irish football team. Among them are visions of a bowl game, and Banks says he'd specifically like to play on New Year's Day. 
"We'd like to achieve the na­tional championship, if at all possible," he says. "I'd per­sonally like to play in the Or­ange Bowl. I've watched those teams clash it out, and that's what I want to do." 
Until the bowl bids are made, Banks stresses that the team needs to keep playing the way it played against USC last week. He says the defense put up a serious fight to shut down the Trojans after the opening drive, and the offense knew what it had to do -execute. 
On a more personal level, Banks is concentrating on building on his successes so far. 
"Every week I want to im­prove, to move closer to where I want to be as a player," he says. "I want to get a few more yards, make a few more plays. If I do that and keep it up, I'll be the player I want to be." 
In 1959, Brennan was replaced with Joe Kuharich. But Kuharich could fare no better, and he left Notre Dame after four years of compiling the lowest winning percentage of any coach in Irish history, .425 (17-23-0). Hugh Devore then returned in 1963 as the admin­istration searched for a per­manent replacement. Devore's team stumbled to a 2-7 record, 
and the outlook was bleak for fans of the Irish. 
No one could have known that yet another savior was about to appear to restore the Notre Dame football tradition to its accustomed winning ways -the Ara Parseghian years awaited the hungry supporters of the Fighting Irish. 



( 
The Game 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Just a couple of weeks ago, it looked like the Notre Dame football team would be able to choose the score for Saturday's matchup with Navy. 
After all, while the ninth-ranked Irish were busy recording their fastest start since 1980, the Midshipmen were taking their lumps against schools like William & Mary and Lehigh and losing their first five games. 
But faster than you can say, "Anchors Aweigh," the Middies have corrected themselves. Under first­year coach Elliot Uzelac, Navy toppled Penn, 38-28 on Oct. 17, and gave Pitt all kinds of fits before finally succumbing, 10-6, last Saturday. 

Elliot Uzelac 
The Notre Dame-Navy rivalry is the oldest intersectional college football rivalry in the country. With the Irish holding a 50-9-1 edge, it also is one of the few sports rivalries more one­sided than the Major League Baseball All-Star Game. But if Notre Dame is to reach a New Year's Day bowl, it is just about essential for the Irish to keep the year's biggest upset from oc­curring at Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday. 
The 5-1 Irish are still 32-point favorites to make it 23 consecutive victories over Navy. But while Navy is 1-6, head coach Lou Holtz is hesitant about going up against this improved and spunkier style of Middieball. 
"Don't be deceived by Navy's record, because they've been as com­petitive as you could want the last three weeks," Holtz says. "They gave Air Force all it could handle two weeks ago and really did a nice job of defensing Dee Dowis. 
"Then, they come back and beat Penn and they did everything Satur­day but beat Pittsburgh. I don't think there's any question that they're playing much better now than they were the first few games of the season." 
Notre Dame offense vs. Navy defense 
Sophomore quarterback Tony Rice has led the Irish to two straight wins since the career-ending injury to Terry Andrysiak against Pitt. Rice is probable for Saturday's game after receiving a concussion, a bruised jaw and 15 stitches last weekend against Southern Cal. 
Since Rice's arrival at quarterback, the offense has changed its style, but has been just as effective. In 10 quar­ters of football with Rice at the helm, the Irish have scored 83 points, and they have averaged over 30 points in the two games where Rice has started. 
In those two games, against Air Force and Southern Cal, Rice has thrown just 12 passes, while a senior­dominated offensive line has helped a young rushing attack average over 350 yards on the ground. 
No individual Irish running back has had a 100-yard rushing game yet, but Mark Green, Anthony Johnson, Pernell Taylor, Braxston Banks, Ricky Watters, and Tony Brooks all have contributed in a unit that has averaged over five yards a carry in each of the last two games. Banks and Green are the probable starters at ful­lback and tailback, respectively. 
"It's like the Pony Express," Holtz says about the rotating back system. "You don't want to wear out one horse. It's a long trip." 
Rice and multi-talented flanker Tim Brown also averaged over five yards a carry in the USC game. Brown will start at flanker Saturday and again figures to be Notre Dame's main re­ceiving threat, with sophomore Pat Terrell starting at split end. Brown had a big game in last year's 33-14 win over Navy, catching seven passes for 184 yards. 
The receivers could be featured more if Rice's injury situation gets worse. In that case, the Irish probably will turn to freshman Kent Graham and a pass-oriented offense. Graham completed four of five passes and led the Irish to a field goal in limited ac­tion last Saturday. 
If the Navy-Pitt game is any indi­cation, the Irish might have a little bit of trouble running with the ball. The Middies held the Pitt offense to just 206 total yards for Navy's best defensive performance in 47 games. This is the same Pitt offense that gained 204 yards just on the ground against Notre Dame two weeks ear­lier. 

David Lowe 
"Anytime you hold a team like Pit­tsburgh to 206 total yards, you've got to be playing with a great deal of emo­tion and having some success," says 
Holtz. 
The linebacking corps, featuring junior Ray Worthington and sopho­more David Lowe outside and junior Mark Pimpo inside, has led the defen­sive unit. 
Navy's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense 
The last time Navy defeated Notre Dame, back in 1963, a future Heisman Trophy winner named Roger Staubach helped lead the Middies to a 35-14 triumph. 
If Navy is to pull off the upset on Saturday, it will do so using a totally different offensive philosophy. 
Freshman quarterback Alton Griz­zard, one of several new faces on the offensive unit, leads a wishbone at­tack for the Middies. Grizzard earned his first starting assignment for Navy in a 23-13 loss to Air Force. In his last two starts directing the run-oriented offense, he led the Middies to a win over Penn and a near-upset of Pitt. The 5-11, 170-pound freshman set a school record with 225 yards rushing against Penn. 

"Grizzard, their quarterback, is in the same situation as Tony Rice," says Holtz. "They're both young and a little bit inexperienced now, but they've both certainly got the poten­tial to be very good quarterbacks." 
Navy's leading rusher, Chuck Smith, who missed last year's game with the Irish, has a twisted knee that will probably keep him out of this year's game as well. 
Unlike last year, when Navy could not seem to do anything offensively without Smith, falling behind 28-0 en route to the 33-14 loss, the Middies have capable runners in Smith's ab­sence. 

Curtis Brown 
Sophomore James Bradley and junior Paul Parker both have averaged over five yards per carry for Navy in a rushing offense ranked thirteenth in the country. 
To have any chance on Saturday, the Middies will have to get their rush­
-· 
ing game going. While Grizzard is Navy's second leading rusher, he only has attempted 32 passes on the season, completing just 10 of those for 143 yards through seven games. 
It will be the second time in three weeks the Irish have faced a wishbone attack, following a 35-14 victory over Air Force on Oct.l7. 

-
Kevin Voss 
The Irish allowed only two touch­downs to the Falcons that day despite allowing 384 yards of total offense, thf greatest offensive outburst agains the Irish so far this year. 
Defensive tackle Brian Flanner) who had a big game against Ai Force's wishbone, is questionable for Saturday's game after suffering back :. spasms. 
Ned Bolcar, who leads the unit in tackles, will start at inside linebacker for the Irish, with Darrell "Flash" Gordon, Wes Pritchett and Cedric Figaro handling the other backer pos­itions. Tom Gorman, Mike Griffin, and Jeff Kunz will start on the line, with Marve Spence and Stan Smagala as cornerbacks. 
George Streeter will be the Irish strong safety, and Brandy Wells will start at free safety in place of Corny Southall, injured with a torn knee liga­ment for six weeks, at kee safety. 
, Irish Extra Weekend Edition. October 30-31. 1987 
The Tale of the Tape 
TEAM STATISTICS NAVY OPP PASSING NO co PCT INT YDS TO RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP PASSING NO co PCT INT YDS TO TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2174 2358 Nobers 44 15 .341 4 240 0 C. Sm~h 72 364 5.1 1 35 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2163 1870 Rice 27 11 .407 2 227 0 Total Plays 505 476 Grizzard 32 10 .313 2 143 1 Grizzard 76 292 3.8 4 33 Total Plays 441 388 K. Graham 5 4 .800 0 40 0 Yards per Play 4.3 5.0.0 C. Smith 1 1 1.000 0 1 1 Bradley 52 256 4.9 0 24 Yards per Play 4.9 4.8 Andrysiak 58 30 .517 3 480 2 Yards per Game 310.. 310.6 Holl 1 0 .000 0 0 0 Parker 40 236 5.9 1 15 Yards per Game 360.5 311.7 NO 90 45 .500 5 747 2 PENALTIES-YARDS 32·264 41·366 NAVY 78 26 .333 6 384 2 C. Brown 70 226 3.2 3 37 
PENALTIES-YARDS 35·307 25·185 OPP 158 73 .462 91009 6 FUMBLES-LOST 29·10 17·4 OPP 111 67 .604 6 743 5 NAVY 427 1790 4.2 10 37 FUMBLES-LOST 10·4 15·9 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 121 130 OPPONENTS 365 1615 4.4 16 56 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 124 102 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG By Rushing 97 93 
By Rushing 89 41 Brown 20 384 19.2 2 49 By Passing 18 32 Schedules By Passing 31 51 Green 9 73 8.1 0 21 By Penalty 6 5 By Pena~y 4 10 Watters 4 50 12.5 0 28 THIRD DOWNS·CONV 104·48 96-43 
THIRD DOWNS·CONV 87·36 80·32 Johnson 2 90 45.0 0 51 Percentage 46 45 Notre Dame (5-1) Navy (1-6)Percentage 29 29 Terrel 2 63 31.5 0 38 POSSESSION TIME 204:38 215:22 d. Michigan, 26-7 I. WILLIAM & MARY, 27-12POSSESSION TIME 202:36 157:24 NOTRE DAME 45 748 16.6 2 51 Minutes per Game 29:14 30:46 d. MICHIGAN ST., 31·8 I. LEHIGH, 24-9Minutes per Game 33:46 26:14 OPPONENTS 73 1009 13.8 6 57 d. Purdue, 44·20 I. NORTH CAROLINA, 45·14
RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG 
I. Pitt, 30·22 I. Virginia Tech, 31-11SCORING TO PA R-PA S FG TP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG d. Air Force, 35·14 I. AIR FORCE, 23·13Gradel 0 19·19 0·0 0 9·12 46 Green 77 375 4.9 2 18 Jordan 8 140 17.5 1 34 d. usc. 26-15 d. Pennsylvania, 38·28Brown 6 0·0 1-1 0 0·0 38 Rice 44 204 4.6 4 32 C. Smith 3 56 18.7 
0 28 Oct. 31 • NAVY I. PITISBURGH, 10·6Johnson 5 0·0 0·0 0 0-0 30 Johnson 44 190 4.3 5 20 Hughes 3 52 17.3 0 18 Nov. 7 · BOSTON COLLEGE Oct. 31 -at Notre DameRice 4 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 24 Watters 39 177 4.5 1 18 Neumann 2 28 14.0 0 16 Nov. 14 ·ALABAMA Nov. 7 • SYRACUSE Banks 3 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 18 Banks 29 125 4.3 3 18 Voss 1 28 28.0 0 28 Nov. 21 ·at Penn St. Nov. 14 • at DelawareNO 22 18·18 1·3 2 9·12184 NOTRE DAME 351 1415 4.0 16 32 NAVY 26 384 14.8 2 34 Nov. 28 · at Miami Dec. 5 • Army (at Philadlephia)OPP 6 12 7·11 3·3 0 3·5 94 OPPONENTS 230 861 3.7 6 62 OPPONENTS 67 743 11.1 5 51 
Irish Offense v. Midshipman Defense Irish Defense v. Midshipman Offense 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NAVY DEFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE NAVY OFFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL OLB 46 David Lowe 6·2 208 So. OLB 48 Cedric Figaro 6·2 246 Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL SE 15 Pat Terrell 6-0 192 So. 61 Chris Janke 6·3 215 Fr. 43 Rod West 6·3 226 So. FL 85 Shane Smith 6-2 189 So. 
83 Reggie Ward 5·10 178 Sr. RT 64 Mike Musser 6-3 251 Sr. L T 87 Tom Gorman 6-6 260 Jr. 84 Carl Jordan 5·11 190 Jr. 
TE 88 Anay Heck 6-6 248 Jr. 73 Mike Christ 6-4 233 So. 95 Ted FitzGerald 6-5 265 So. Lt 65 Mike Brunn 6-5 262 Sr. 85 Frank Jacobs 6·5 225 Fr. MG 63 Mike Jimenez 6-1 224 Jr. NT 94 Mike Griffin 6·4 246 Sr. 57 Mike Kircher 6·2 227 So. LT 76 Tom Rehder 6-7 263 Sr. 51 Clark Nichols 6·2 225 Jr. 86 Rich Morrison 6·3 248 Jr. LG 74 Joe Brennan 6-5 260 Sr. 70 Marty Lippincott 6·5 292 Jr. LT 76 Troy Holland 6-5 245 Jr. RT 93 Jeff Kunz 6-5 256 Sr. 75 Michael Sweeney 6·2 239 So. LG 65 Tom Freeman 6-4 265 Sr. 98 Rob SEhnert 6·1 225 Fr. 92 Bryan Flannery 6·3 247 So. c 53 Matt Felt 6-3 245 Sr. 75 Tim Grunhard 6·3 271 So. OLB 81 Ray Wor-6..0 218 Jr. OLB 38 Darrell Gordon 6-3 210 Sr. 68 Robert Friedman 6·2 206 Fr.c 51 Chuck Lanza 6·2 270 Sr. thlngton 30 Frank Slams 6·3 235 Sr. RG 62 Tim Hofacre 6-5 257 Jr. 54 Jim Kinsherf 6·5 240 Fr. 92 Bill Bowling 6·2 205 Fr. ILB 34 Wes Pritchett 6·5 234 Sr. 78 Mike Maier 6-2 252 So.RG 62 Jeff Pearson 6·2 250 So. ILB 44 Greg Reppar 6-0 221 Jr. 45 Greg Harris 6-5 195 Sr. RT RT Bruce Bennet 6-3 255 Sr. 
71 Dean Brown 6·2 273 So. 60 Anthony Domino 6·2 205 Fr. 50 Kevin Flynn 6·0 232 So.RT 73 Byron Spruell 6-4 279 Sr. ILB 37 Mark Plmpo 6-0 221 Jr. ILB 47 Ned Bolcar 6·2 235 Jr. SE 93 Jon Neumann 5-10 165 Fr. 61 Pete Rokich 6·7 262 Sr. 45 Pat Donnely 6·0 202 Jr. 49 John Foley 6·3 228 So. 91 Don Hughes 6·0 174 Sr. 
QB 9 Tony Rice 6-2 190 So. LCB 25 Marv Spence 5-10 179 Sr. or 87 Kevin Voss Jr. 6 222 Jr. 17 Kent Graham 6·5 225 Fr. FS 49 Bart LaRocca 5·1 0 178 Fr. 28 Chris Kvochak 6-1 182 Sr 
36 Jim Traa 6·0 216 Sr.
FB 39 Braxton Banks 6-2 207 So. 25 Mike Marchildon 5·10 182 Sr. 
QB 16 Alton Grizzard 5·11 180 Fr. 
22 Anthony 6·0 216 So. ss 35 Curtis lrby 6-2 193 Sr. FS 5 Brandy Wells 6·1 186 Sr. 
8 John Nobers 6·0 191 Sr.
Johnson 39 Scott Carson 6·0 175 Fr. 1 Todd Lyght 6·1 214 Fr. 
RHB 32 James Bradley 5-8 190 So. 
TB 24 Mark Green 5·11 181 Jr. CB 18 Daron Fullwood 5-10 193 So. 55 27 George Streeter 6-2 200 Jr. 
20 Chris Venezia 5·10 187 Jr. 
12 Ricky Watters 6·3 180 Fr. 4 Jim Chatfield 5·11 189 Jr. 13 Pat Eilers 5-11 198 Jr. 
LHB 29 Paul Parker 6-3 204 Jr. FL 81 Tim Brown 6·0 195 Sr. RCB 29 Stan Smagala 5·11 177 So. 28 Jason Pace 6·0 171 Fr. 21 Aaron Robb 6-1 190 Jr. HB 19 Larry Dickinson 6-2 190 So. 32 D'Juan Fran-5·11 182 Jr. Curtis Brown 5·1 0 198 Sr.
FB 23 p 19 Vince Phelan 5-10 170 Sr. 2 Clay Stackhouse 5·10 167 So. cisco 31 Bert Pangrazio 5·9 214 Jr. 
29 Parker32 Bradley fiJ 28 Pace20 Venezia 
Tf 
35 lrby 

23 Brown 49 LaRocca 39 Carson 
31 '
Pangrazio
25 Marchildon 16 Grizzard 
18 Fullwood 44 Reppar 37 Plmpo • 19 Dlcklnaon 
8 Nobers 4 Chatfield 60 Domino 45 Donnelly' . 2 Stackhouse 
' 11 
46 Lowe ' 81 Worthington61 Janke ' 64 ' Musser 63 Jimenez 76 Holland 92 Bowling 
93 ' Neumann 65 Brunn 74 Brennan 53 Felt 62 Hofscre69 Bennett87 ,Voss 73 Christ 51 Nichols 98 Sehnert 
91 Hughes 57 Kircher 75 Sweeney68 Friedman 78 Maier 50 Flynn 36 Traa 
'' '' '' 
,, ,,,, 
' 87 Gorman ' 94 ' Griffin 93 ' Kunz76 Rehder 65 Freeman 51 Lanza 62 Pearson 73 Spruell 88 Heck15 Terrell 
, 
48 Figaro 95 FitzGerald 86 Morrison 90 Aim 38 Gordon 43 West 30 Slams83 Ward 70 Lippincott 75 Grunhard 58 Heldt 71 Brown 61 Rokich 85 Jacobs 
' 
25 Spence 17 K. Graham 9Rice 81 Bro¥ ~ 
21 Rob 
28 Kvochak 29 Smagala 32 Francisco 34 Pritchett 47 Bolcar 45 Harris 49 Foley
39 Banks ' 22 Johnson 27 Streeter 
-
5 Wells 13 Eilers
' 
24 Green 1 Lyght
12 Watters
' 
' 
PEERLESS 
.,, 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports editor and some well· known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the 

spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given 
Jane Shea 
game. The person must pick the 
SMC Sports Ed. winner and give the underdog 32·22·2 points. Home team is in CAPS. .593 (last week: 7·6·1) 
Oklahoma over Kansas by 53 Sooners Nebraska over MISSOURI by 19 Cornhuskers Miami (Fla.) over EAST CAROLINA by 30 Hurricanes FLORIDA ST. over Tulane by 28 Seminoles Louisiana St. over MISSISSIPPI by 13 Tigers Ucla over ARIZONA ST. by 6.5 Sun Devils Syracuse over PITTSBURGH by 4.5 Orangemen Tennessee over BOSTON COLLEGE by 6.5 Volunteers CLEMSON over Wake Forest by 18 Tigers 
OHIO ST. over Michigan St. by 4 
Buckeyes ALABAMA over S. MISSISSIPPI by 23 Crimson Tide OKLAHOMA ST. over Kansas St. by 32 Cowboys PENN ST. over West VIrginia by 7 Nittany Lions NOTRE DAME over Navy by 32.5 Irish 
PROGNOSTICATORS 






' 
Marty Strasen Dennis Corrigan Pete Gegen Rick Rletbrock Fr. Robert Griffin Anne Lipsett Asst. Sports Ed. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Guest Celebrity Random Student 31·23·2 29·25·2 29-25·2 23-31·2 26·28·2 30·24·2 .574 .537 .537 .426 .481 .556 (last week: 7-6·1) (last week: 7-6·1) (last week: 5·8·1) (last week: 6-7·1) (last week: 8·5·1) (last week: 6·7·1) 
Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Jayhawks Sooners Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Tigers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes 
Green Wave Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Rebels Tigers Sun Devils Bruins Bruins Sun Devils Sun Devils Bruins Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Orangemen Panthers Volunteers Volunteers Eagles Volunteers Eagles Volunteers 
Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Deacons Tigers Buckeyes Buckeyes Spartans Spartans Buckeyes Buckeyes Crimson Tide Golden Eagles Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Golden Eagles Crimson Tide Wildcats Cowboys Cowboys Wildcats Cowboys Wildcats 
Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Mountaineers Nittany Lions Irish Midshipmen Irish Irish Irish Midshipmen 

Accent
Friday, October 30, 1987 page 11 

SUMMER Frl Annenberg Auditorium 7:.30 and 9:.30 p.m. 
Eric Roemer explores the uncertainties of modern romance with this bittersweet comedy. The flfth In his critically acclaimed "Comedies and Proverbs" series, "Summer" stars Marie Riviere as an Intelligent and vulnerable young woman spending a vacation alone. Her holiday becomes a journey of self-discovery which Is humorous, Insightful. and deeply touching. 
THE GREEN ROOM Mon Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. 
Francois Trauffaut directs the story of a WWII veteran who believes that the dead survive only In the memories of the Jiving and dedicates his life to mourning them. This fllm Is a moving testament to the enduring power of the cinema and the auteur theory articulated by Trauffaut. 
THE BLUE ANGEL Mon Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. 
The careers of both director Joseph von Sternberg and starring actress Marlene Dietrich were established with this fllm about a stern professor who Is degraded through his love for a cafe entertainer. The mood of the fllm Is gloomy and cruet a shadowy tale about loss of social status. 
TOP SECRET Tues Annenberg Auditorium 7 and 9 p.m. 
Another hit from the wacky team that brought "Airplane" and "Ruth­less People" to the screen. Abrahams, Abrahams, and Zucker direct an outrageous and hilarious farce, satirizing various historical pe­riods and fllm genres. Val Kilmer (the Iceman from "Top Gun") stars as an American rock idol who defeats the Nazis and solves the cold war. 
THE PRINCESS BRIDE Forum Cinema I :45, .3:45. 5:45, 7:45, and 9:45p.m. 
Rob Reiner and William Goldman teamed up to produce a fairy tale of a film which Is delighting audiences across the nation. Carey Elwes and Robin Wright are the star-crossed lovers Westley and Buttercup who romp through adventures and jokes at every turn. Mandy Patlnkln, Andre the Giant. Billy Crystal and Carat Kane toss In sterling supporting efforts. 
NO WAY OUT University Park West Cinema 2, 4:.30, 7 and 9:.30 p.m. 
Kevin Costner follows up his solid performance as Elliott Ness In 
"The Untouchables" with another role In a cop-and-robbers fllm. 
Costner plays a naval lieutenant working as an attache to the Sec­
retary of Defense In this tight spy thriller. When he makes the mistake 
of falling In love with the secretary's lover (Sean Young), he flnds 
himself accused of both murder and treason. 


Opening Sunday at the Snlte Museum of Art Is "Rembrandt Etchings: the Fedderson Collection. A reception will be held In the museum from 2 to 4 p.m. and a free museum tour will be given at 2 p.m. 
Theodore's and the Student Union Board are co-spon­soring a Halloween Costume Ball tonight from 10 p.m. to 2 p.m. The free dance will be held In Theodore's and will Include free food, door prizes, and a costume con­test. 
The NO-Navy game Is sched­uled to begin shortly after noon this Saturday. 
The University Libraries will hold a used book sale on Monday and Tuesday In the Hesburgh Library concourse. 
Local Theater Guide 
0000000000000000000 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
6424 Grape Rd 277·7.3.36 
"PROM NIGHT PART II" "THE WHISTLEBLOWER" "PRINCE OF DARKNESS" "STAKEOUT" "BEVERLEY HILLS COP II" "IN THE MOOD" 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
University Park Mall 277·0441 
"NIGHTFL YERS" "NO WAY OUT" "CARE BEARS" "THE. PICK-UP ARTIST" 

FORUM CINEMAS 
North Village Mall 277·1522 
"THE PRINCESS BRIDE" "LIKE FATHER. LIKE SON" "NO MAN'S LAND" 
SCOTTSDALE CINAEMAS 
I 15.3 Scottsdale Mall 291-458.3 
"PROM NIGHT II" "PRINCE OF DARKNESS" 
100 CENTER CINEMA 
I00 Center St. 259-0414 
"THE PRINCIPAL" 
"DIRTY DANCING" TOWN AND COUNTRY 

2.340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090 
"SUSPECT" "BABY BOOM" "FATAL ATTRACTION" 
READY Ill CINEMAS 
420 E. Main St. Niles, Michigan 68.3-1112 
"STAKEOUT" "HELLRAISER" "MAID TO ORDER" "THE UNTOUCHABLES" 
"Big River," the smash Broadway musical based on Mark Twain's "The Adven­tures of Huckleberry Finn" will be presented by the Broadway Theatre League tonight and Saturday at 8 
p.m. and on Sunday at I :.30 and 7:.30 p.m. In the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
South Bend's Century Center 
will celebrate Its lOth an­
niversary at a free Commu­
nity Open House on Sunday 
from 1 to 5 p.m. An official 
ceremony and cake cutting 
will take place at .3 p.m. From now until Nov. 22 the Northern Indiana Artists-St. Joeseph Valley Watercolor Society Exhibition will be at the South Bend Art Center's Warner Gallery, located In the Century Center. In con­
juctlon with the exhibit, a free watercolor workshop will be offered dally next week. 
SACRED HEART SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 
5 p.m. (Saturday VIgil) 
Fr. Daniel Jenky, Celebrant 
9 a.m. Fr. Frank Cafferelll 
10:.30 a.m. Fr. Daniel Jenky 
12:15 p.m. Fr. William 
Beauchamp 7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady Chapel 
WEEKDAY MAIN CHURCH SCHEDULE 
11 :.30 a.m. Monday thr Friday 5:15p.m. Monday thr Friday 
WEEKDAY CRYPT SCHEDULE 
6:.30 a.m. Monday thr Satur­day 
11:.30 a.m. Saturday 
12:1 0 p.m. Monday thr Friday 5:.30 p.m. Monday thr Friday 
-
Robin Wright and Carey Elwes star as Buttercup and Westley In "The Princess Bride," director Rob Reiner's film version of WUIIam Goldman's spirited, comic tale of true love and high adventure. 
ChitChat • ­
• 
1 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL 
accent writer 
Liza Minelli Is preparing to sign on for a sequel to "Ar· thur," the 1981 movie she starred in with Dudley Moore and John Oielgud. . . . Bruce Willis just began fllmlng 20th Century Fox's "Die Hard" with director John ("Predator") McTiernan. In this projected summer 1988 release Willis plays a New York cop who fol­lows his ex-wife to Los Angeles. . . . A sequel to the 1984 "Ghostbusters" has been under consideration for some time, but may never make It Into production because of Its bloated budget. Bill Murray wants $8.5 million for his work, and Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis are matching his 
salary demands. That brings the projected budget up around $40 million. . . . Elizabeth Taylor just flnlshed her national Marshall Fields tour promoting her new per­fume. In each city she was forced to hire an extra hotel room just to acommodate her luggage -2.3 trunks. . . . Marlo 
Puzo has completed a script for "Godfather Ill" but Francis Ford Coppola, the director who won best picture Oscars for his work on "The Godfather" In 1972 and on "Godfather II" In •• 1974, has no Interest In direct­Ing the third movie.... Lorlmar Productions are con­sidering backing a movie which would feature NBCs allen puppet ALF.... During a con­cert In Anaheim, CA last July, singer Madonna urged the crowd of 60,000 to Ignore the security guards and come "close to me." Four of the con­cert goers, Including a preg­nant woman who has since miscarried, have flied charges against the city of Anaheim, claiming that they sustained 111]urles In the stam­pede. . . . Sylvester Stallone, still In Israel fllmlng his $40 million "Rambo Ill" has run Into some troubles on the set. 
Two weeks Into shooting he .. 
flred director Russell ("Highlander") Mulcahy be­cause they had fallen several days behind schedule and the rushes weren't showing what Stallone wanted to see. 
-
Accent
Friday, October 30, 1987 
'Suspect' stumbles 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL 
accent writer 
J\ s "Suspect" opens, the ~udience is treated to the deliberate, methodical suicide of a Supreme Court justice. Next we watch a group of el­derly polar bear swimmers dis­cover the rotting corpse of a Justice Department secretarv 
Movie rev. 
Suspect • ~l, ~·~
... 

floating In the Potomac. Then the police arrest a fllthy vagrant, more animal than man, who Is lurking in a nearby sewer. Welcome to Christmas in our capitol. 
"Suspect" is a courtroom thriller which follows the Inves­tigation of public defender Kathleen Riley, played by Cher, as she prepares her defense of the homeless, deaf-mute Viet­nam vet being tried for mur­der. Dennis Quaid is Eddie Sanger, a slick D.C. dairy in­dustry lobbyist who can't get out ofjury duty and ends up more involved in the case than is strlcly legal. 
Riley believes her client is innocent, but the circumstantial evidence against him is strong. Her investigation is hampered by a trial judge who is about to be promoted and wants to wrap this case up as quickly as possible. 
Enter Sanger, who notices a thing or two during the trial and decides to help out the pretty P. D. Never 11)ind that 
contact Deween a Juror and 
trial attorney is a federal of­
fense. Eddie may be big-city 
slick. but he's from Wisconsin, 
which means he's an ethical 
guy at heart who just can't bear 
to see an innocent man go 
down. 
Kathleen resists at first, her 
many years as a devoted public 
servant leaving her a bit leery 
of committing a felony. Eventu­
ally Sanger's charm and persis­
tence pay off, and the two set 
out to find the real killer, in 
spite of all the danger, violence 
and romance standing In their 
way. 
The acting is strong all 
around. Coming from her criti­
cally acclaimed performances 
in "Silkwood", "Mask", and 
most recently, "The Witches of 
Eastwick." Cher doesn't have to 
prove she's Qat talent. Quaid, playing yet another version of the hard-to-not-like charmer we've seen before in "In­nerspace" and "The Big Easy" does his usual fine job. Unfor­tunately, these two strong leads are seriously undermined by a weak script and preten­tious, contrived directing which intrudes on almost every scene. 
The plot is filled with the un­likliest of coincidences and the strangest turns of events. But besides concocting a plot which cannot hold together for more than a few minutes at a time, the writers and director indulge in soppy philosophy lectures in between each choppy action scene. Their self­impressed, petty moralizings on everything from the Vietnam war to the social life of public 
defenders become a quick 
bore, but are almost preferable 
to the limp behavior of the 
principles. 
This is the sort of movie 
where no one does what every­
one in the audience knows they 
should be doing. The heroine 
walks calmly into the clutches 
of the waiting bad guy without 
telling anyone that she knows 
who committed the crime. Of 
course the bad guy, given 
-The battle for mail 
W
e have a number of un­touchables on campus. Touch any one of them, and you're left thinking you just made bodily contact with a por­cupine. That's okay with me. When you tell the immediate world where the bodies are burled, you're asking for trou­ble. There's some jostling of untouchables you do for the thrill of it; some jostling you do sured for a cwwn of thorns, which I'm halfway entitled to wear, since half the time, I'm into good-nature, sincere, re­sponsible pro bono jostling 
which makes me a credit to my 
religious Community. 
There's something on this campus too sacredly untouch­able to be jostled by anybody, and that's the mailbox. Early 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
for the hell of it; some jostling 
-
you do for the sport of It; some jostling you do to be noticed; some jostling you do to get people looking In the other di­rection, so you will not be noticed; some jostling you do In the Interest of promoting jostling as an artform; some 
,, jostling you do as a marathon jostler, trying to see how many untouchables you can get ticked off at you at the same time, the same place, and for the same reason; It's more like juggling than It Is jostling; but some day they'll offer a gold medal for It as a public service. 
It must be plain that a catalogue of the varieties of jostling could be endless and tiring. I hope before I die to try all of them. It takes chutzpah to engage in experimental jos­tling, as though you were the only guy on your block to be so free of sin that you can be the first to cast stones at ran­domly chosen untouchables, no matter how sensitive. It 
takes grace under pressure to rattle the cages where the closet untouchables live behind bars, knowing all the time that you're living In a glass house which Is not Impervious to stones. That's fine with me, because then I can get mea· 
-
Saturday morning, l found the mailbox near the North Dining Hall had been knocked over and left lying on its side. Mall­boxes In my home were as un­touchable as smoke alarms, which are no laughing matter, either. I thought: "It would be less shocking to meet vandals spray-painting the steps of the church." Vandals committing sacrilege, you figure, are answerable to God, who could punish them with an outbreak of bolls. Vandals laying violent hands on a mailbox are liable to be penalized by Uncle Sam. How's he going to defend his property? Send in the Marines? Turn the North Quad Into an­other bloody Vietnam? Drop napalm on the guerillas who treat U.S. mailboxes as toys? It could be an ugly mess that extends beyond this genera­tion. 
A postal worker I met on Monday told me of students at this Christian university who 
are trying to turn the ad libitum rotation -of mailboxes on this campus Into a varsity sport. Under the cover of darkness, the Zahm mailbox appears in back of Farley. Farley's mailbox Is left at the Grotto. Dillon's mailbox mal<es Its appearance 
in a confessional. Students, mistaking It for a broad­shouldered priest, kneel down in front of it and tell it their sins. 
The whole irresponsible game leaves me sick. Everyone needs a mailbox to which he gives landmark status. You put things in a mailbox that you're reluctant to put In your mouth, 
i.e., postage stamps, maybe a dollar's worth. You put things in a mailbox that you'd be em­barrassed to show your mot­her, like love letters that you can't write in the sand. You put things in a mailbox that you've pinned your dreams to: lottery tickets. You put things in a mailbox that men have killed for: the payoff to your bookie. You put things In a mailbox that peace In your time depends on: an alimony check. You put things In a mailbox that could change the course of government: an absentee ballot. You put things In a mailbox that could make heroes of the lads who can't shoot straight: Digger's game plan. Why you'd be mailing his game plan, unless you yourself were Digger, or whether Digger has a game plan, I have no way of knowing; I'm not a sports columnist, and I don't attend basketball games. But you get the Idea'( Mailboxes have more secrets to keep than 
Calvin and Hobbes 
page 12 

ample opportunity to catch her, And why is she wearing said decides he'd rather walk than wardrobe to court? Enough run and lets her get away. said. "Susoect" is the sort of movie where you'll find yourself talking to the screen in ex­Quaid and Cher do the best asperation as the stupid char­they can to overcome the in­acters make every possible ob­credible plot and heavy-handed vious mistake. And how does a production team who are bent financially strapped P.O., living on investing their slender vehi· 
in one of America's most ex-cle with with all the serious pensive cities manage to afford depths of a Bergman master­that black leather wardrobe? piece. It's not a pretty picture. 
supremacy 
a psychiatrist. A mailbox that became self-ambulatory would have to be put out of service. Students that supply a mailbox with legs, should have their own legs tapped at the kneecap, gangland style. That's treating them so mildly, it 
looks like turning the other 
cheek. 
I used to worry about putting my mail In a box that waits outside through the night in bad weather, and is in plain view, tempting J.Q. Public to get silly; the potential butt of any misfit that hates mail­boxes, because he never writes letters or gets letters. 
l was finally persuaded that It looked paranoid when l in­sisted on bringing my one weekly letter to the post office, to mall It In the inside box. All of us are partners In a cove­nant of trust, which may repre­sent the final outpost of social decency. No Domer worth his salt would tolerate the idea that mail, which the post office would protect from hail and sleet, was In danger from an outbreak of Saturday night fever, which made the natives restless. 
l started using the corner mailbox: the same one that was abused last weekend, and left lying In the mud looking like a beached baby whale. 
What can be done to prevent 
a recurrence? Perhaps the 
postmaster could get a clue from the Food Service person­nel dealing with food fights in the dining hall. Perhaps the postmaster could announce, that as a result of one postal box rendered slightly hors de combat by a dolt wanting to tilt with a windmill, the students have forfeited the right to have their Halloween and Thanksgiv­ing mail, their Christmas pack­ages, and their birthday cards, delivered to them or otherwise handed out; and that one more episode of mail boxes, dis­guised to look like ticket scal­pers, holding court in the Oak Room, will be punished by the post office's refusal to handle incoming or outgoing Valen­tines during the week of February 14. Easter and Mot­her's Day cards can be looked at later. 
Am I serious? I'm more than serious: I'm p----dl This country hasn't seen such an outrage since the days of the Pony Ex­press. If I catch the Idiot, un­touchable with a ten-foot pole, who has been taking my favor· lte mailbox on clandestine walks, I'll see that he's run out of town with the junk mall. This Is a war to the death in defense of mall domination, and there can be no neutrals. 
Otherwise, welcome back to the Emerald City. Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't miss you. 
Bill Watterson 
1-\t. Lt.A?S \Cl 11-\t. t.\)GE Of SI\JPE.I'o\\)()\)S \-'11\1'\ 1-\t\D I'*Cl\
\~1\'rl \JI.JR~ SCll'o\IC 1-\t.AI<.IN<:;., 
11-\t. 8\JII...DING 1\\'11\) ?Rt.r~Rt:S Q\J ITt.. 'Kt:Atl Z.t..D j\JS\ \-\OW 1\ CR.~ OF Dls-rKt.§ ~Ro~ 
STUF'ENPOUS HAN ~ClT\Ct.S 
itSWOO? \0 1\-\t. 'Kt:SC.\l~ ! 1-\IG\-\ \Jr 1-\t. WI\S, 1-\Cl\ilE~ER. f1, DISTAN\ AllHWfl..~! 
1\T 1\iiS ALTIT\Jef. !HE WINDS W't.'KI. 1\ limE WICK'{, 1\\\D .. 
Friday, October 30, 1987 The Observer page 13 
n.ca..wrNotnt o.m. office, ._...on the third floor of LAFortune Stu­-..c.m., eccep~a claaifled edwertJillna from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Mondayttwuuall Frklay. lbl ca..wr Selnt ~office, localled on the third floor of HllgprCollge c.m.r, .cc.pta ~from 1:1;30 p.m. untH 3 p.m., Monday through Frklay. DMdllne tor next-d8y claalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All ciMalfleda muat
Classifieds be pntpilld, elu. In per.an or by milll. The cli-ve Ia 10 oenta per five dWIKIIII8 per clay. 

NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 TYPINGWoRD' 'PROCE·ss·~·NG'"''' CALL CHRIS 23•·8997 ..................................... Wordproceaslng· Typing 272-8827 Typing 237·1949 or 277-1131 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  FOR SALE II RESTAUAANTtBAR NEAR CAMPUS. OWNERS SELLING AT WELL BELOW ORIGINAL COST. BUSI· NESS MAJORS, APPLY YOUR HARD EARNED EDUCATION AND OWN A BUSINESS EVERY COLLEGE KID WANTSI 277·0352 AFTERNOONS. ;;c;R..s'Ai:iiii'iiooi;·;;;;;;~i-;ji;;.--;iri~~-~~-r a Mac system. Leu than a year old. $200 firm. Call Bob :!39-7886 H Interested. ;;c;R·--·s'Ai:iiiiii--·i:;,:;--·siii:i:iN'a....::rwo~ NAVY GA'SII CALL SHANNON AT £33581 £ ROUND TRIP TICKETS nlld enywhere lor elrectlon of elrtlne coet call John x2012 ................................................................ For Sale:Maclntosh 512E computer wSOOk dlak drive Inc all manuals, MacWrlt&i>aint. Price negotiable. Call  NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CALL TONY x3348. N'iiiiCi''iic..&••AL'AeA.MA··;:ix..iN..:.\..iiio WAY. WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE NAVY TIX (OA & STUD). CALL JOHN AT~51. i··~;;;d·1 ..N·~-:;.;--a·A··~;·si;;d:·ii~k;;i:·c:~i, x~ 16 ask for Jerry. ...........iiiii:'i''iiiii:P.iiiii:P'iiiii:P.......... NEED MANY BC TX STUD AND OA CALL TONY 2087 ;;:·3·~;·4·aA:s·w'ANr.eo.Fofi.AL'AeAMA GAME -CALL BILL x3366 N";;d·2·~;-4·ec·iiP.:~·:-wi,ii;;g·;;·p;;;:·c:~i. Dave at x3200 BC TIX NEED Stud Or GA, Call TIM at 1038 CASH  FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT NEEDS 4 B.C. GA'S REACH HIM CO MATI 283-3548............................................... ................................................................ NEED STUD TICKETS OR GA'S 1 BC AND 1 ALABAMA ·WILL PAY S PLEASE CALL TRACY 4084 ac:··;i;;d;~;--~;··-o;:··ti~k;;--~~~;;;;;;:··~~i, Dave x1589 ................................................................ I HAVE ALABAMA GA'S AND NEED BC GA'SII CALL RENE-4001 aoiirot.i..c.ol'i:iiae··Neiio·2·ac:··a;::s CALL JEFF £1453 rfiP:oii--;;··a'Ai..IA··s:ru··:rix..F'ofi··:;··ae: ANDY 239·5807  "tiOW CAN YOU BE ON STAGE wuH A REGULAR FROM LETTERMAN'S LATE S NIGHT?" WATCH THE OB­SERVER FOR ANSWER. i:os:r···aoi:iiSFioNze····e'AFifiiNas.':. wire-looped, triangles ... lost between south quad and football stadium day of USC game ... Please call 2548 or return to Lost and Found. Thank You. iiiii:F>'INii.Eo·--····;:ic.t<iiT......;;ofi.......iiC DESPERATELY! CALL ROB AT 234· 7188 ................................................................ U2 TIX FOR SALEI INDY CONCERT, NOV. 1 CALL 2084 ''jj'~jj';;;y·;'rl-;;~;;~--~;;~--~--~i~;-~;·;~~.·· I'd still like you best. Happy Birthday with lots of love. -K  JIM AND BERNADINE (a.k.a. Dad and Mom) Welcome to NO again :r~·-;:;~;;;·(s;;;~·,;;;;~i·-~;·us'D·Aj;~;~·;;. member tlhe IRISH I Love, Mary Beth (If' I 307) w-;;;.i'd··;;;;;;;;;;;;;--·;;Lii;s·E··~;~·~~···;;;, Don Juan In Hell Joke? Even Tom didn't understand thle onel R'oii.owviiR·:;;;-;py··;;~ik:~~-.-·c;;;. Mary HAP·;;;;··aifiriio:A:;;··t;;··Fi;;;;;·:A~~--t.;d Pam Wlnenger Janet Brothers Love, Mary sriiii·ii;·;;;~~·;·i:;;;;v·ii;;.-.;:;;;;;;;i·i:;;;, Mary :i;·v:,;~;;;;;;:--· ......................................... I will walt until Thanksgiving -T until  
MRS. COKER 233·70011. TERRIE'S TYPING WORD PROCESS· lNG. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. LETIER QUALITY PRINTER. WORD PERFECT. $1.50 SS. $1.25 DS. 287-1283  x2093 ................................................................ For Sale ·2 United Alrtlnee round-trtp tlckete to anywhere In the contlnentel U.S. $200 ea or beet oller. Cell Trace II 277·1773.  i'Niie·o·2..iiA·M·A·a:'A:;:·j;i:E';.:sii·cAL.'i. MARC AT 288-7105.$$$$SSSS$SS$ I NEED ALABAMA TIX CALL X3811  w'AN'Tiio;··a··No·~;··'Ai:'Aii'AM'A..rici<~ ETS, TOP DOLLAR PAID. CALL BOB AT 293-5821 FROM 8-5 PM. iF.vou.Ne.eo.N'AiiY.a:.\:S:"c:.\L:L:'ciifi'ls AT 1750  Happy Birthday Mumal Thank you tor everything Love always, Kathy ............................................................... THE LEPRECHAUN IS HEREI  then ... Have a Happy Halloween! Love, Mary JAMes·;;·_-8i:ui:4e·:·vou·:r.:touaiir.wE ALL FORGOT BUT WE REALLY CARE A LOT THE 28TH WAS LAME  
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277­7408 TUTOR SERVICES AV·FRENCH AND ENGLISH.CALL 277·3718 MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1015 DAY.  TICKETS NEED TWO TICKETS FOR BC GAME. CALL 717·339·3141. ...........................................................·.....  ................................................................ NEED B.C. STUDENT TICKETS CALL VAZ AT 271·0579 PAY BIG $$$ ................................................................ I NEED 2 NAVY OA'S. PLEASE CALL NED AT 35151 i'N'EE0'2'NAVYTiCKETS·. 'NO'MATIER WHAT THE COSTI Patrick 271·0477  2..t.i.Avv··sruo··;;iii.. ~cALi: ..oAvii..;\1 X1851 i'couill'u'se·2··NAw..a:A:s:·i·-woui:o HIGHLY APPRECIATE IT IF ANYONE WHO HAS A PAIR WOULD SELL ME THEM. I WOULD BE FOREVER GRATEFUL. PLEASE CALL JIM AT 2457,2474. THANXI  Sgt. Robin (Wondertul) Squyres, You look soooo good In uniform. Your greatest tan ................................................................ SURVEYIII SURVEYIII SURVEYIII THE FIRST ANNUAL STUDENT BODY SURVEY IS COMINGIII WATCH FOR IT IN YOUR MAILBOXIII ................................................................  BUT THE 29TH PUT IT TO SHAME -THE WHOLE CRACKED BUNCH w·;;;,--;;;;·;;~ii'i~·~;,~·birti;d~;;·;;;;;;;j~?·:A·;, oEAA.. FP:Fil:Ev..·;;'ANr:Asv: ..i:~i-·ii'"b;, printed· 'One of the greatest momenta of my life was shared with you I" B.O.B. Bob c;;~;·A;;;v:·i-i·~~-;t,·~;·y~~-;;~~~·i;;~-~~;;;~  
\ LOST/FOUND l LOST-Gold Cross and Chain Senllmental Value .. pfease call Doug 2327 REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD RE~RD REWARD REWARD WED BEFORE BREAK I LEFT A GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WITH A RED STRIPE IN THE SOUTH DININO HALL AT LUNCH MY MOTHER GAVE ME THAT SHIRT BEFORE SHE RETURNED TO PANAMA. IT IS MY FA· VORITE SHIRT AND I MISS MY MOT­HER VERY MUCH IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD LOST BLACK LEATHER GLOVE be­tween Howard and Admtntstratton Build­Ing on Tuesday, October 27. To return, please call 2548 or return to Lost and Found. IF YOU HAPPENED TO TAKE MY CHEMISTRY BOOK FROM NORTH DININO HALL I WOULD APPRECIATE IT RETURNED. I CAN'T AFFORD TO BUY A NEW BOOK SO IF YOU WOULD JUST PUT IT BACK ON THE SHELF WHERE YOU FOUND IT I WOULD BE FOREVER GRATEFUL! Lost: Gold St. Chnstopher medal sur­rounded by 10 small pearls with Maureen lnacrlbed on the back. Extreme sentimen­tal value. Lost on Saturday Oct 24. REWARD II found Call (818) 795·7535 collect and ask for Mary. i''HAVE''A..BR'OWN LEATH'EFt'JACKE-r WHICH WAS RETURNED TO ME BUT IT IS NOT MINE. I WANT TO RETURN IT TO ITS OWNER BUT AT THE SAME TIME I WANT MINE BACK IF YOU LOST A JACKET OR HAVE FOUND ONE AT 103 CAMPUS VIEW, PLEASE CALL 284·5437 FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR NOV. GAME WEEKEND!>GRADUATION. 1-218­291·7153. WANTED \ wanted babysitter lor f1ve month old baby two daya a week tuesday and thursday 11 pm till Jpm ten mlnutea from Notre Dame call 287 9087 after 4pm RETIRED NO PROF. & WIFE NEED EX· PERIENCED DRIVER TO TUCSON, AZ FOR XMAS BREAK. ALL EXPENSES PAID. CALL 232·5097 PROF. KEN­ $$$$$ I need 2 OA's to Navy & USC Ca\1 Dan 3319 ............................... .. .... ································-··········· NEED 1 GA FOR BC CALL SHAWN AT 2235 ................................................................ WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? Then eell me your BC GA'a ao my 1l1ter1, cou1ln1, 1nd unclel c•n ... the Eegleeloeellllfll Cell Steve et 232­9818. BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX BC TIX cAi:i:..457ii·;;c;F;··.;;oufi..iiiisr.oF'F'iiR FOR OA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES 111111 ··················-············· ······-························· I really, really, rsa/ly naad 1 Alabama ticket. Student or GA will do. Call John at 283· 2445. ................................................................ BOSTON COLLEGE GA'e OIMME, OIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered for BC GA's I'm holding your family hostage Please call Chrla X 1489 NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287·4561 after 6pm. ................................................................ BC Yep, I need two GAs for the Boston Col· lege game. Please call Mike at 271.0765. DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 HELP I DESPARATEL Y NEED 1 NAVY GA PLEASE CALL SCOTI X1640 TICKETS NEEDED Wealthy Well St. Alum need• Penn St. end BC tlx. Cell Melt 1-IOD-223-1559. DESPERATELY NEED 10·15 NAVY G.A.'s AND TWO BC STUDENT TICS. CALL TODD AT 2937 or 1050. I JUST WON A MILLION FROM ED MCMAHON AND NEED 5 BAMA STUD TIX. CALL MARK X3371 (PS. HAVE KEENAN REVUE TIX) ................................................................ NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL JOHN AT 3064 .................................................... IF YOU'LL SELL ME 2 BC TIX FOR A REASONABLE PRICE, CALL 283·2916. I NEED GAe FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-8308 $$$$$$ NEED NAVY TIX II stud or GA cell Karen 271-0585  2 Navy GAs needed. Please call Jim £3278 ................................................................ NEED NAVY O.A.S $$$$ 288-7033 DESPEAATEL Y NEED 2 B.C. G.A.s call £1852, ask for Bryan. Will pay $$$......................................... NEED BC TIX. CALL 272-1282. $$$$$. DESPERATE Student willing to payoes'PefiArEl:v..Ne'Eo"2·:a·a'Ai..IA.CiA··s major dollars for 4 Bama tlx. (G.A.or stud.) call Hugh at 2120.$$$ DAD WILL PAY$$$ CALL JIM AT 283-3669 ................................................................ WANTED: One student Bama ticket. I'm N'AW''GA~··2··N~~d~d~··K~~~n ·2·a·ii-'821'6 willing to sport you major $. Call Dave at 4779 or 2120.after 5 ................................................................ I have your Alabama tickets BUT.... I$$$$$ $$$$$$ Need 'Bama G.A.'s 272· need BC tickets; will trade staight across 4162 call me please IIIII Meleah x2674 ................................................................Need 2 Navy GAs ? I'll trade 2 Navy GAs Need a Navy Slud. Ticket? for 2 B.C. GAs. Call Bryan at 4280 ASAP Trade me a Bema Stud. Ticket Dave 1801Uncle Dick atlll neada 2 Nevy G.A.'e. Cell Chuck (the rock Godl). 283-1877 Desperately need BC tickets. Will pay Iota of $. Call Becky 2n-3835 PERSONALS DESPERATELY NEED BC TIX KEVIN X 2388 WAKE UPI DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. STUD. TIX OR OA'S. PLEASE CALL DIANE • s'El:l:vCiR.AMs..i.255:3355···--················273511 oA·ii-iious·ii;·c-c;L.'ii'liiie·R·&·uaiioR'.NEED NAVY & BAMA TIXIII SUSIE CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE X2919 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN................................................................. I need 1 Navy student or GA ticket. oo"vou··;;Avii''Pe'NN..sr'Are·o;;.:s???Please call Mike at 283-1881. IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEMI WILL PAY $$$1 CALLNeed 4 Boston C.-NO tlx. GA or Std. SUE AT X4238Pairs preferred. Good bucks. Call 233· ................................................................2651. LAST CHANCEl Limited epace................................................................ ramelne on Notre Deme Winter SkiHELPI. .. HELP ME SHOW A BC STU· BreaketoSINmboet, Velf, WlntarPerkDENT WHAT IT REALLY MEANS TO end Brackenridge lor live or eannBE A CATHOLIC. I WANT TO TRADE nlghtl deluxe lodging, lilt tlcklle,AN ALABAMA STUD. TICKET OR $$ mounllln bertlecue, ekl rece end moraFOR A BC STUD OR GA. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL MIKE AT ~19 OR ~13. from only S154. Optlonel elr end cherter bue tranaportetlon evellebte.THANKS. Huny, cell SuncheH Tours toll trae................................................................ lor lull dllelle end color brochure, 1·BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDSI Call 800-321·5811 TODAY!John 271-0939 w'lll!;;d~·2·ac·a;::;·;~~2-·ii;;;;;·a"A:;_ .................L:;;v~~--v~i~~~;;;;~i................ Cell Merle et £4558 Helto-n Dance Thle Frfdeyf 8:00 PM HI up et Logen -YOU REALLY NEED NAVY OA'S DONT Bring Your Coatumef YOU? WELL I'VE GOT 'EM -··­..... NDSMC Council lor the Reterded AND I'LL TRADE YOU FOR 2-4 BC GA'S ANO.OR STUD. TICKETS ······S····· ................................................................ CALL DAN AT 1858 CALL DAN AT 1858 Need cash last? ... We need help selling CALL DAN AT 1858 ······5 fasfl ................................................................ Help sell the single 100 YEARS a tribute to N.D. football. cell Peter x1672 or PaulaNEED 2 OA'S FOR THE 'RENTS ·NAVY x3784 NOWIGAME -CALL ANNETIE ~71·0205 ................................................................ $$$8~~;·N;;;;;;·2aA:~-;~;·"N;:;y·c:~iis;;;;it HARMAN-KARDON CASSETIE DECK MODEL 291 for sale. Asking $190. 2at 1111 or 1112 years old, works like a dreamt Complete t.i'iiiio...i...N''Avv···aA···P·i:ii'Aiie...cAi:i: packaging, manuals. Call287-8249 If In­terested.MEGAN 271..()784. i:os:r:·Cifiiiii·N·Fiua·s;;··sHiRr·w;;;eoi';:jii'Eo..Al:A.eP:M'A.(N'ov:;·4;·Ci:A·:·s·av STRIPE IN S. DINING HALL ON WED.TONIOHTIII -CALL TONY 2149-·T BEFORE BREAK. MY MOTHER GAVE N'iie·c;·2..N'Aw··a·A:~·s;a:·:ii!:i·~·;5ii4:--· ME THIS SHIRT BEFORE SHE RETURNED TO PANAMA. IF YOU ii··:;~~-g-~i-sss·:·i·i;~~~--N'Avv··:ri;:·:;:;;;~ FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. I WILL PAY YOU$$$pelre evafleble. Cell Chuck (the Rock Godl) 283-1877 Alex, What a fantastic amllel a·ur..vou·ooN:;;··u-NoeR.sr'ANo·:r;;e I'm glad I got my own at mesal IMPORTANCE., Amy  YOU HAVE PROVEN YOU CAN TEACH, BUT HOW MUCH HAVE YOU LEARNED? LETS SEE HOW YOU CAN DRINK NOW THAT YOU HAVE TURNED. HAPPY 21ST KATHRYN . LOVE JULIA AND BRIAN. PEGGY McGUIRE You're nice, I'm real, ... l'm sorry. ALFONSO Will sell tickets to sold out REM concert Nov 5 UIC Pavillion If you have a ride. Dave x1304 ...................................... Anyone going to THAT PETROL EMQ. TION on Nov 8? I NEED A RIDEI If thera'e any room In your car, pleaea call Kathy 2823. ................................................................ K WHY ARE YOU YOU? You make me smile with my heart... R·ioli..'NiieoE'o·--;;c;··c:i-i·lcAoo:wesr 'BUABS FRI. OCT 30 PAY GAS I AM DESPARATEIII CALL SMC-4083 'Niiiio..iic··;:ix~cA.i:i:.i<'Ari-iv-284:;;;;;·;· CILA invites you to a general meeting for the Summer Program In Mexico Wed­nesday, Nov. 4, at 7:30p.m. In the CSC Call Mike at x1049 or Dan at 277·0804 for details "time and distance are out of place here" Riled by Ruchti? Puuled by Poirier? Bored by Browne? Dozing In Darden? Lost In Loaecco? You've been taught by the rest, now learn from the beat: A.E. LIVINGSTON MWF 11:00127 NSH Here's the story Of a lovely lady ... THE BRADY BUNCH FILM FESTIVAL Call 234·7748 lor details POM POM SHAKERSII ON SALE IN FRONT OF HOWARD SAT. BEFORE THE NAVY GAME. LET'S SEE EVERY· ONE SHAKING IT AT THE GAMEl! k,a, and I -through fad diets, squish roomie, secrets, right at lunch (keep your eyes open), double rings, midshipmen, employee relations, Hope and more Hope, the world won't stop spinning... take a look at me now and I'll tell you that the reclple for success Is chocolate milk and peas (3)... thank you for asking about my smiles and putting up with such a loonle. love ya, k ................................................................ HAPPY BIRTHDAY MATII CHARLIE, I SAID A CHEESEBURGER! YAY 141 WAAAYTOOOI DON'T CRY OVER SPIT MILK. -NOH ................................................................ ATIENTION ALL GIRLS: HANDS OFF OF MIKE 'BUDDHA' MANNINO HE'S MINE, ALL OF HIM HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY Grumpty, oopa, Erlc and Carmie, I mean Mlchaellll Erlc, do you think Ann Arbor will tum your take I.D. In? Michael, find anymore scopes In the paper? Now you guys can get 21 kisses from all the beauties that asked ual Have a happy and sick B·DAYI 7 A· STUDS ................................................................ What a dealt ND student has new and uaed tumlture  seats at the game so we can cheer tor the SAME team. Bob the Cards ten. PS. If your a Navy tan we could have some problema. i-i'Ai:i:oweeN..s!:ioi<'E~iN.,s.coMiNaiit HALLOWEEN SMOKE-IN IS COMING Ill GATHER WASHINGTON HALL 5:00pm OCTOBER 31 HALLOWEEN SMOKE-IN Ia COMING Ill .........ro.rHe..iicoPit.i·a..woi.liiN···· OF NORTH DINING HALL Happy to hear you enjoy the way I'm doing my job. Remember I'm here to serve you I Personal appearances always available! YOUR SALAD BOY ;:~··i;;~-9~~--~~;;;··;;;~··i;;;;;~it..i~~;;;··iNi< SPOTS In the navy blue sweat-ashlrt & sweats, who was also our releree: Sorry your team lost but so did we Maybe we can console our hearts together? If your teammate in the red sweats Ia free so Is mine In the leather bomber jacket Call us at SMC x4294 P.S. sorry about your knee. it';jj'~t~rt;d"~·~~pl~..~~·~onths ago on 4th floor LeMana ... to all the guya from the 'NAUOH' who were on our Regina co-ed football team ... Thanka alot tor being our coaches and players ... Who ceres what the final score was;you're all winners to us ... The rest Is history ... The aaason nor our friendship enda here. Toni, Mary and Sue :rc;··j'j~;·-wi~t,i~ii--;;~~·~-;~~;;~rt;;i··;·ii;t. B-day. No gorgeous guy put In this per­sonal and there won't be any Barrington pranks, but hope you enjoy your B-day by the ones who love you most. U A the greatest friend. LOVE XXOO, LM ................................................................ NANCY CAMPBELL You did look beautiful last weekend. I wasn't just giving you lines. I meant everything I said. See you this weekend. You know who ................................................................ PATIY I AM ANXIOUSLY AWAITING OUR ELOPEMENTIII TWO MORE CON­CERTS AND OUR DREAMS WILL BE· COME A REALITY. BE AT THE HOLIDAY INN ROOM 309 IMMEDI· ATELY FOLLOWING THE CONCERT. I LOVE YOU WITH ALL MY HEART AND SOULI BONO ................................................................ GET YOUR TEAMS TOGETHER TODAY I SMC INTRAMURALS PRESENTS: 4 ON 4 CO-ED VOLLEYBALL ENTRIES AVAILABLE AT ANGELA ATHLETIC TODAYI ................................................................ Rosa: I steep In the nude. Can I still come to your pajama party? w;~;;-;;·;;;-·N;;-i;;;··ii~~-;--··· ............... Joe and Patty z. Hope you have funl Joe 0~~;;·~;--i;,~--;;~;,.................................... "But you guys don't have to sleep wnh him." r;;;;~~..t;;,i;"~j'j~~~--............................... Don't know what they're thinking of Wan around for someone who !Ita juat like a glove...  -- 
NEDY. ................................................................ FOR SALE  FOR SALE NAVY & USC GA'S CALL 2088 N'iieo·;··aeNeiiAi:.AoM'iiis.ioN'.rici<~ ETS TO ALABAMA ve. NOTRE DAME  I NEED 1 NAVY STUD. TIX 1580 KEVIN ;··.;~~~-·u2..ii~i;;;~-;~·;·~~i;·~;··;;~d~:·c:~i, Branch Rickey at 2005. N'eiio'N'AiiY.aA:~·:·eig..s~~k'~-~c~iir;;.J.j 288·2032 N·eeo·a:C::aAMA··:rix~C'HR.ts-1609·····  Hugh Wade Is my hero. ................................................................ Dennis: "Have you ever heard The Alarm?" Marty: "Yeah, my roommate pulled It last semester."  tor sale cheap: Coffee table End table Computer desk Card table Folding chairs Desk Lamp Call Cathy at 287-9338  Natural blo~d~~ ~i-ih~..;~;.d·:·~~ii~ ....... both of youL;;t;..;;;;;;;;·;····--··--···--··--··--·..-·................ Cavanaugh Football 0, Cavanaugh Soc· car 0 Will the basketball team break the shutout?  
1988 PACE ARROW, 30 FT., 3,900 MILES, REAR BATH, TWIN M:, 8.5 KW GEN., HITCH, TV ANT, ti.W, EXT. WAR­RANTY, LOCATED ND AREA. NEW 152,000, ASKING $38,500. CALL 717· 338-3141.  GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814) 535-~90 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 268-4494 AFTER 5 PM. N'eiioeo:·2-N'Aw"G'A;;"iii;:jc'E·2:;;·:944; N·eii·c;--·;;--·ae:·..:rici<E:rs.···c:;:,i··i<Fiis  N·Ee·o·'NA·v;;·-o;::s·???"cA.i:i:'x27iiii···· N'Avv.oA:ii··FoR..sA'Lii''28'2~29Ti ....... I NEED ABC STUDENT OR OA TICKET FOR A MEMBER OF TED KENNEDY'S  c;~;iiY·: ..................................................... We love your lumberjack jacket. And you, too. Kelth·n·Colt  Need·;~--~i~d~~i--N~-:;.;-·ii~k~;~:-·i;··;~~ can help, cell Brad at 234·8586.  ;,:;~t:;;~ij;;ii~':""'"'"'""'"""""""""""'"""" Shut upl r'Aa·:.......................................................  
FEATHERED MASKS HOW UNIQUE SHOP AT COUNTRY HARVESTER FOR YOUR TREATS LAFORTUNE BASEMENT NOON-5 P.M.  X2800. N·ee·c;·aas·raN·c-c:;i:;::-o;:·;:ixi·w,ii·;;~y big bucks. Call Joe after 6pm at 287·4581  STAFF CALL STEVE X1654 Neeo''iic.oR··:aAM'A·:r,-x:·cA'Li:..3o3~ 279-01185.  together-4-ever D.C. Uveal (If only in our minds)  To those gorgeous phyaica chicks: I just wanted to say hello Joe  You still owe me. Your week waa over 2 weeks ago. Pay upl  

-

....-----·~-----------~~~~---------~-----~----...-------~~ ---~­
page 14 The Observer 

Alan Trammell releases a throw while Eddie Mur-All-Star team, and Detroit Tiger manager Sparky ray tries to break up a double play this past Anderson was named American League Manager baseball season. Trammell was named to the AP of the Year. 
Mattingly an 
AP All-Star 
for fourth time 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New York Yankees first baseman Don Mattingly is the first player voted to The Associated Press major-league All-Star team for four consecutive years, while San Diego catcher Benito San­
·-
tiago is the first-ever rookie and one of eight first-time se­lections. Other first-time winners an­nounced Thursday were Wade Boggs of the Red Sox at third base, Juan Samuel of the Phillies at second, George Bell of the Blue Jays in left, Jimmy Key of the Blue Jays as left­handed pitcher, Steve Bedrosian of the Phillies as relief pitcher, Paul Molitor of the Brewers as designated hit­ter, and Alan Trammell of the Tigers at shortstop. Two other players repeated from 1986-Kirby Puckett of the World Series champion Twins in center field and Roger Clemens of the Red Sox as right-handed pitcher. -Andre Dawson of the Chicago Cubs, last an AP all-Star in 1983, was named right-fielder. Clemens' victory margin was the largest on the team, which was selected by print and broadcast members of The Associated Press. He beat Nolan Ryan of the Astros 167­
12. ' 
BEER 
Pabst 24 cans ... $6.59 Meister Brau 24 cans ... $4.79 Stroh's 30 pak ... $7.59 Busch 24 can ... $5.99 Michelob 24 can ... $9.99 Michelob Light 24 can ... $9.99 Hammes 24 cans ... $5.99 Lite 24 can ... $7.79 
BEER QQARTS 
Budweiser ... $10.99 Bud Light ... $10.99 Busch ... $9.99 
KEGS 
Bud 15.6 gal ...$28.99 Old Milwaukee 15.6 gal ... $23.99 Busch 15.6 gal ... $26.69 
-


ironwood wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
172.5 NORTH IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND, IN 4663.5 
OPEN 9-9 
THRU HALLOWEEN 
~Stoner~ 
MFUNSfORES 
THE HALLOWEEN SPECIALISTS 
OUR NEW STORE ON 305 S. MICHIGAN ST. IS STOCKED FULL AND READY FOR ALL YOUR HALLOWEEN NEEDS! 9:00-9:00 MON.-SAT. 12-5 SUNDAY ON MICH. ST. BElWEEN WAYNE & WESTERN NEXT TO CORNUCOPIA RESTAURANT -DOWNTOWN 
CITY-WIDE LIQUORS 3825 N. Grape Rd. 
.Mish, Ind. 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm. Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 272-2274 
UQQOR 
Windsor 1.75 I ... $10.99 Gilbey's Gin 1.75 I ... $9.99 Klesser's 1. 75 I ... $9.99 Giro Tequila 1.751 ... $10.99 Malibu Rum 7.50 ml ... $6.99 
Glenmora Vodka 1.75 I ... $7.99 Dubouchett Peach Schnapp's 1. 75 I ... $4.99 Don Q Rum 1.751 ... $11.99 

LL FOR SYR PARTIES 
Friday, October 30, 1987 
Detroit's Anderson '87 AL Manager of the Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sparky Ander­son, who led the Detroit Tigers to the best record in baseball this season, on Thursday was named American League Manager of the Year by the Baseball Writers' Association of America for the second time in four years. 
Anderson, also named Manager of the Year in 1984 
LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. FREE
~'iii::~ 
TOPPINGS
~­
YOUR CHOICE OF TOPPINGS AT THE CHEESE PIZZA PRICE 
-CALL  AHEAD  FOR  FAST  PICKUP  OR  
DEL/VERY­ 
283-2391  
CLIJ' AND SAVE  CUP AND SAVE  

SAVE UP TO I 
$4.00 I I 1
1-1 0'' PIZZA WITH 
TOPPINGS OF YOOR : CHOICE I 
FOR $4.50 : 
THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO: 
-WE DEUVER FREE-I
l 
COUPON MUST BE PRESENTEDI COUPON MUST BE PRESENTED FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VALID I FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. I WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. 
I Expires After 11-6-87 
when the Tigers won the World Series, received 11 first-place votes and a total of 90 points in balloting by a panel of two BBWAA members from each AL city. 
Tom Trebelhorn of the Mil­waukee Brewers was second with 78 points and seven first­place votes, followed by Tom Kelly of the World Series cham­pion Minnesota Twins with 7 4 points and 10 first-place votes. 
WINE 
1-14" PIZZA WITH 
TOPPINGS OF YOOR 
CHOICE 
FOR $6.50 
THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. 
-WE DELNER FREE­



Friday, October 30, 1987 The Observer page 15 
"There is one person who stands out and poses a threat every time he steps on the ice, and that's Mike McNeill," said Schafer. "He'll get plenty of ice time." 
Of course, Sch~fer also realizes that after the same person has led a team in scoring for two years, oppo­nents can get a pretty good idea of who to concentrate on stop­ping. 
"Because he's been around, he'll probably be watched more carefully than others,'' Schafer said. "I've moved (Kevin) Markovitz up to the forward po­sition because he's a very 
"I was not destined for a great professional hockey career," laughs Schafer. 
After graduating with a mar­keting degree in 1974, he played 
To: All students who signed up to participate In the Urban Plunge this year. There will be a mandatory orientation workshop held this Sunday, November 1st In the Library Auditorium from 2:30­
4:30 pm. Please bring your registration fee (In the envelope) and ' 
clever stickhandler and playmaker. '' 
As a freshman defenseman last season, Markovitz led the Irish with 18 assists. This year he will play center on the second front line with Matt Hanzel and Tim KuehL Chris Olsen, John Welsch and Brian Montgomery make up the third front line. Bob Bilton centers the fourth line, flanked by Bob Herber and Tom Smith. 
On defense, Schafer is count­ing on the senior leadership of Patten and Pat Foley to im­prove a unit that allowed slightly more than four goals a 
for a year in Switzerland. 
"That was a tremendous ex­perience, working with the dif­ferent players and learning the languages," he says. "I have 
game last season. But Schafer ·-, also believes more help from the offense is necessary in im­proving the defense. 
"Our defense doesn't rest 
solely on the goalie and the de­
fensive unit, the forwards play 
an integral part,'' said Schafer. 
"It can't just be three forwards 
making a mad dash toward the 
goal -there still has to be a mad 
dash back toward the defensive 
zone." 
Tim Caddo and Bruce 
Haikola make up the second de­
fensive unit, and Mike Leherr 
and Roy Bemiss comprise the 
third unit. 
some good friends from that 
year." 
Schafer then returned to the 
United States and took the job 
of assistant coach at Notre 
Dame, a position he held until 
the end of 1979. 
"After the '79 season, I saw 
the opportunity at Alaska­
Fairbanks to be a head coach," 
he says. "I took the job and 
began to build the program, 
from the ground up." 
But Alaska-Fairbanks? 
"It definitely presented a challenge, and there was also the allure of Alaska," he ex­plains. "Sure, I had moments when I wondered what I was doing there. There were a lot of cold, cold nights. But I'm glad I stuck it out." 
In his first season as head coach at Alaska-Fairbanks, the Nanooks (no kidding, that's their nickname) finished with one win and 23 losses. The next season saw an improvement to 2-21. But Schafer persisted. 
"We really had to work our tails off recruiting," he adds. "We had to build a foundation from guys that other schools passed up. We all worked our tails off." 
The work paid off when Schafer's squad finished 19-7 in the 1982-83 season, and then went all the way to the NCAA Division II semi-finals the fol­lowing year. 
The Nanooks moved up to Division I for the 1984-85 season and won 21 games. Schafer guided Alaska-Fairbanks to 20 wins in each of the last two seasons, including three vic­tories over Notre Dame. 
"When the Notre Dame job opened up, I was really ex­cited," comments Schafer. "I am really happy to be a part of ND again." 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
difference. 
"It certainly helps that they have the experience from pre­vious years, but we're not a powerhouse team by any stretch of the imagination," said Schafer. "We're a good team that's strong at all posi­tions. The big factor will be how hard they work in the game, and I have reason to believe they will work hard." 
The lineup that will start tonight for the Irish includes senior Mike McNeill at center, 
Schafer 
continued from page 20 
sophomore Bruce Guay at left wing, senior Tom Mooney at right wing, junior Bob Bilton and senior Lance Patten on defense and sophomore Lance Madson at goal. Action starts at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC, and the two teams will meet again at the same time and place Sat­urday. Admission is free to both contests with a student ID. 
On offense, McNeill, a South Bend native and graduate of St. Joseph's High School, is ex­pected to be Notre Dame's top scorer for the third consecutive year. McNeill has averaged over 20 goals and 20 assists in his three years with the Irish. 
scoring 27 goals and notching 40 assists over four years. Despite these impressive sta­tistics, however, he was not in­tent Qil playing professionally. 
fiOWD~ 
DDDUYS 
SALOON & DANCING 
50's & 60's MUSIC 3:30PM-2:00AM 
GO IRISH! 
US 33 at Stateline Niles, Ml (616) 684-1904 
Friday, October 30, 1987
page 16 The Observer 
Junior overcomes injury 
Kibelstis back for NSC Meet Sports Briefs 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
The wait is finally over for junior cross country standout Terry Kibelstis. 
After being sidelined with a stress fracture for seven weeks, Kibelstis will rejoin the women's squad when the har­riers compete in the North Star Conference Meet Saturday in Milwaukee. 
The return will give Coach Dan Ryan and the rest of the squad a big boost heading into the final leg of the season. Even with the impressive third-place finish at the Indiana Intercol­legiates last weekend, the team has been struggling with con­sistency and has yet to put to­gether a full team effort. Ryan hopes Kibelstis will be the an­swer to those woes. 
"Her return will definitely help," Ryan said. "She looks strong. Her return will give us more depth and keep the time gap down." 
Kibelstis ran the first two meets of the season, taking fourth place at Purdue with a 
19:04 clocking· and third at the Detroit Invitatinal in a time of 
19:35. She first felt the injury at Purdue, and then the pain came back at Detroit. 
A basic scan turned up the stress fracture, and then, to everyone's surprise, doctors found another painless frac­ture in her other leg. It looked as if a once-promising season was over. 
"It's been really difficult," Kibelstis said. "I was in pain when it happened, but since 
.­
.. 
= 
then I haven't had any real pain. I felt like I could run, but my body wasn't ready for it." 
While it may have been hard to watch her fellow runners compete from the sidelines, the road back to top form may be 

Terry Klbelstls 
even more difficult for Kibelstis. She was in good con­dition at the beginning of the season, but now finds herself starting over. 
"I didn't think I would be back this year," she said. "I haven't even run a complete workout yet, and everyone can hear me coming with my deep breathing." 
Kibelstis broke onto the cross country scene as a sophomore when the program went to the varsity level. Her biggest prob­lem was making the adjust­ment to the college level, ·the most noticable difference in the 30-mile high school weeks as compared to the 80 miles ran the first week of college prac­tice. She placed 27th at the Hil­lsdale Invitational and 26th at the Indiana Intercollegiates in what she termed an "up and down year." 
While Kibelstis would like to regain the form she had at the beginning of the season, she will be satisfied with breaking into the top seven. 
"The way my first two races went gave me a lot of confi­dence," she said. "And hope­fully that will carry over. I'm just hoping to be ready for the iistrict race (in two weeks). '1'his race will be more of just getting back into the swing of it." 
With the entire lineup healthy again, Ryan thinks the Irish can give defending champ DePaul and co-favorite Dayton a run for their money. 

-">n-~,. ~Knights ofthe Castle ~ Men's Hairstyling 
YOU CHOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
272-0312 277-1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS Ironwood & St. Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 
..--------------------.1 
Dallas Green announced his resignation as president and general manager of the Chicago Cubs in a hastily­called press conference at beautiful Wrigly Field Thursday afternoon. -The Observer 
Thomas Hearns became the first fighter ever to win four titles, as he cruised to a fourth-round knockout of Juan Domingo Roldan for the vacant World Boxing Council middleweight championship Thursday night. -The Obser­ver 
The Leprechaun will make an appearance at the hockey game Friday night following the pep rally. -The Observer 
Team tennis rosters are due today. Contact hall commissioners for details. -The Observer 
The women's soccer team beat IUSB, 4-0, in its last game of the season Wednesday night. Teresa Shep­pard, Kate Titterton, Pat McGraw and Susan Haling scored for the Irish who finished the year with a 6-3-3 record. Those players interested in playing Turners Indoor Soccer should attend a meeting Monday, Nov. 2, at 7 p.m. in the PW party lounge. -The Observer 
MATE;O'S makes their 6 FOOTERS with 3 delicious meats and boy
do they pack lt on. You could even say they pack a mean salami. Either 
way you look at it ,you are gettirtg a lot ofvalue for your money plus being 
the center of attentwn at any tallgate party!!! 
Don't accept any imitation 6 FOOT SUB, MATEO'S is the only place to get the original and best tasting 6 FOOT PARTY SUB in South Bend. 
!fere's the best part of the whole deal. MATEO'S only needs one day's notice and thls great tasting sub only costs $39.95. That's right!! Don't even think about paying more for something that won't even be half as good. 
If you want to have some great tasting fun and be the center of attention at your next tailgater then give MAT~u-::; SUB SHOP a call. The phone number is 271-0SUB. 
Just give them a ring and let the friendlu MATEO'S staff take your order for the time of your life!!!!! 
Friday, October 30, 1987 
The Observer page 17 
Soccer team battling strong field for NCAA bid 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Although the schedule lists UCLA and San Diego State as the opponents for the Irish soc­cer team this weekend, Notre Dame also will be battling Ak­ron and Evansville. 
The battle between the Irish, Zips and Purple Aces will not take place on the field, however. These three teams have to fight it out in the win­loss column and through their schedues for a bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
Because the situation is so complicated, you have to look at several factors at once to un­derstand why Notre Dame hasn't locked up a bid with a 14-1-1 record: 
•The Great Lakes Region. The 24 bids are determined by region, with each of the eight regions getting two automatic bids (which are NOT based on the regional coaches' poll) and the final eight bids going to at­large teams. Thus it is impera­tive to do well in your region. And even though the Irish are the only team to beat Indiana this season, the Hoosiers have all but locked up the first auto­matic bid, and Evansville and Akron also have done well. 
So the trio is left to slug it out for the second automatic bid 
Sports Writer 
IT' BACK! FIRE ON ICE 
N.D. HOCKEY 
vs. WINDSOR 
7:30 pm Fri. & Sat. J.A.C.C. 
0 
p 
E 
N 
H 
0 
u 
s SUDDE"'L'I, TIME 
Sltd> 5nLL ,BIRI:6 FEll SILCNT. CD-EDS QUIIJE.ICE) IN Jl«f1Cl~TION.$ELIX'N--~E ZEI-1\TK <l:MP\)TE.R NERD--IW> SlEA'ED Cff THE E*.IS ...
E 
Here's Sheldon the Computer Nerd ... the hottest new hunk on your campus! Why is everyone crazy about this new wave nebbish? Simple! He's Sheldon-the Computer Nerd who knows all about Zenith Data Systems. That makes him one hip dude! 
'Cause Zenith Data Systems Personal Com­puters take you all the way from college to 
and possibly one or two at-large bids. 
•Schedules. 
The only problem with slugging it out for the bids is that Notre Dame doesn't have Akron and Evansville on its schedule this season. How do you determiqe which team is better than the other? 

•Power 
ratings. A power rating not only takes into account the won-loss record, but also the quality of the opponent played (based on a 1-2-3-4-5 system). In this system the strength of 


the team's schedule becomes the most important factor in giving out bids. That is why Evansville and Akron have worse records than Notre Dame but still have equal if not better chances to make the tournament. Evansville has beaten three Top-20 opponents, and Akron plays several such teams in tournaments the next two weekends. The Irish have only played one ranked team before this weekend, and that was early in the season, an­other factor included in the ratings. The 3-1loss to Portland also hurt. 
According to Jim Byers, Ath­letic Director at Evansville and the head of the Great Lakes Region comittee, the three teams, as well as Wisconsin and Bowling Green, all have chances to make the tourna­ment, although it is hard to tell because there are so many good teams across the nation this season. 
IH soccer playoffs set to begin 
By ROB PIERCE 
Now the fun begins. 
The drugery of the regular season is finally over in men's inter hall soccer, and it's playoff time for those who sur­vived. Two teams from each division will battle to see who will be called champion. 
In the Western European Division, action went down to the wire as Stanford and Zahm A moved into the playoffs with 
0 
c 
T 
0 
B E R 
30TH 
career. And they get you there at great stu­dent prices! 
Now, discover Sheldon's secret to Compu­ter Nerd success with this special offer from your Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. Sheldon gives it a big thumbs up! Here's the Sheldon Special! 
Register to Win A FREE 
EaZyPC! 
Visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact today: 
OPENHOUSE October 30th
data 
10:00 a.m. -7:00p.m.systems Computing Center Demonstration 
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES 6N' Contact: Lisa Burg 239-5153 Ask about how you can quaWy for easy monthly payments with aZenith Data Systems Credit Card! 
victories in the final games of the season. Stanford clinched a berth with a 1-0 win over a stub­born Keenan Blue team Wed­nesday. Ted Kommers scored the lone goal and goalie John Sheehan recorded the shutout for the Studs, who finished the regular season at 4-1. 
Zahm met Pangborn last night at Stepan Field, with the winner advancing and the loser left with an early vacation. The game lived up to its billing as the teams battled to a scoreless 

tie through regulation, two 
overtimes, and the first round 
of a penalty kick shootout. Fi­
nally, on the second sudden 
death kick, Zahm senior Mark 
McCormick scored to clinch 
the victory. The goal spoiled an 
exceptional performance by 
Pangborn keeper Derik Wel­
don, who also scored one of his 
team's penalty kicks. Zahm 
goalie John Gisleson showed 
equal prowess in blanking the 
Violence through overtime and 
allowing only three of seven 
penalty kicks to find the net. 
In the North American Divi­
sion, a three-way tie between 
Fisher, Flanner F .C., and Sorin 
has forced a divisional playoff 
to determine which two will 
qualify for postseason play. 
Fisher defeated winless 
Cavanaugh 2-0 Wednesday to 
r-
force the logjam at the top. Be­
hind goals by Mike Shimota 
and captain Tom Cramer and 
the shutout by goalie Jim 
Turecek, Fisher charges into 
the "second season" coming 
off its best effort of the year. 
Flanner received Uie bye-in 
a drawing and will face the win­
ner of Fisher-Sorin. Those 
teams battled on the last 
weekend of the regular season, 
with Fisher gaining a 1-0 deci­
sion, and a similar struggle is 
expected when they meet 
again. 
In the South American Divi­sion, the defending league champions, the Off-Campus Hoobers, displayed a dominance which has obser­vers talking dynasty. In an era when seemingly no team can repeat, the Hoobers are heavy favorites to recapture the title. They were 6-0 in the regular season, but even more impres­sive was that they did not allow a single goal in any of those games while scoring 20 of their own. 
"We had a great season," said Hoobers captain Dave Thompson. "We expect to win the title again." 
Morrissey A will also repre­sent this division in the playoffs, as it finished in second place with a 5-1 record. The only blemish came at the feet of the Hoobers, who edged Morrissey 1-0 in overtime in their biggest challenge of the regular season. 
Holy Cross A and Flanner B will represent the European Division in this year's playoffs. Holy Cross finished with a per­fect 6-0 record, while Flanner fought to a respectable 4-2 mark and second place finish. 
The final spot was in doubt until Wednesday's match pit­ting Flanner against Dillon A. Flanner won the game and the post-season berth, 1-0, as Doug Radtke scored the gamewinner and captain Tom Maloney registered the shutout in goal. 

Friday, October 30, 1987
page 18 The Observer 
Irish soccer faces SDSU, UCLA in Metropolitan Life Tourney 
By MOLLY MAHONEY and PETE GEGEN Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame soccer team will try to rebound from last week's loss to Portland against national powerhouses UCLA and San Diego State in the Metropolitan Life Tournament on the West Coast this weekend. 
Notre Dame enters the tour­ney against the two nationally­ranked schools hoping to bring home a pair of victories to end its six-game road swing. 
The games grow more im­portant to the 14-1-1 Irish as the season draws to an end and the bids to the NCAA Champion­ships, for which only 24 teams can qualify, become scarce. 
"It is very conceivable that we can qualify,'' said senior co­captain Steve Lowney. "If we do well against UCLA and San Diego State and win our last three games, we'll go to the NCAA's." 
This tournament is one of the strongest in the nation, as all four teams are currently ranked in the Top-10 in at least one the two national polls. 
The fourth team in the tourn­ament is 15-2-0 Indiana, the top­ranked team in the nation. Be­casue the Hoosiers play a much stronger schedule than the Irish (10 Top-20 teams versus three), Notre Dame has to prove itself all over again this weekend in order to get a bid ­not with another match against Indiana, but through com­parisons of Notre Dame's matches to Indiana's perfor­mances against the Aztecs and the Bruins. 
"They're the young upstarts, but there's questions," Indiana head coach .Jerry Yeagely said of the Irish. "They have to show they're competitive with the Far West teams. Even if they don't win or tie they can prove themselves -they just can't get blown out." 
As you might expect, the games will not be easy ones for Notre Dame. The lOth-ranked Bruins enter the game with mo­mentum after beating Santa Clara and 12th-ranked San Francisco. 
"They have good individual skill and attract the top-notch athletes," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "They are unbelievably talented. The whole team is capable of hur­ting you." 
San Diego State, however, is doing even better. Currently ranked first in the Far West region and eighth nationally, the Aztecs have shut out 11 op­ponents this season. 
It will be a high-pressure weekend for Notre Dame. Not only does the squad want two more wins, but the team also must face the inevitible com­parisons to Indiana this weekend and, more important­ly, prove itself to the skeptics. 

ATTENTION VARSITY ATHLETES LAST CALL! 
VOLUNTEERS FOR YOUTH 
-VARSITY ATHLETE'S BIG BRMIIG SIS -GIVE TIME TO KIDS WHO NEED A FRIEND TO SEEK MEMBERSHIP CONTACT x 2704 OR TALK TO COACH FOR MORE INFO 
DUCATIONA MEDIA 
deotape•! 
Inaugural Mass lr . Malloy's Inauguration Now available from Educational Media Rm 9c:cE 
Mass $24.95 Inauguration $34.95 Vl-iS, Beta, or Bmm Video Tape 
ThKE A COURSE IN ITALIAN IN LESS AN HOUR. 

At The Olive Garden, our staff is specially trained to get you in and out inside of a half hour. And in such a way that lunch hour doesn't seem like rush hour. 
There's quite a selection of Italian courses. Freshly made pastas, delicious sandwiches. Or choose our popular soup, salad, and breadstick luncheon, 
11-IE BEST OF ITALY GROWS IN 11-IE GARDEN. 
• 6410 Grape Road, Mishawaka 
all you can eat of all of them for a very modest price. 
So spend your next lunch hour taking a course or two in Italian with us. 
a~~~ 

-------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, October 30, 1987 The Observer page 19 
The Daily Crossword
·campus 
Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 
Gary LarsonThe Far Side
New Marketing Director 
Ned "Crack'em Up" Katston was going to tell 
the story about the priest, 
the rabbi and the girdle 
salesman, but he has 
apparently choked in the 
clutch . 
Ned soon will be moving 
back to shipping where, 
he should be happy to 
learn, his audience will 
be about two. 
Mark Williams 
.4 P!lef·OF·SH{fT I GU£SS W!-IIJT Hf IS /
C.£T IT 7 . 
.. 
Piglet practical jokes 
SUB presents: 
TlfB lfiTClfBR 
Tonight and Saturday 

. j
7:00, 9:00, 11:00 pm 
Cushing Auditorium Admission $1.00 
J 

Friday 
12: 15 -1 p.m.: Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns for Faculty and Staff, theme: The University and1or Social Change?, "Improving Educa­tional Assessment," by Prof. Jeanne Day, ND, brown bag or soup and bread, $1, call 5142 for soup-bread reservations, Center for Social Concerns, Room 124. 
3:30 p.m.: Department of Civil Engineering Seminal Series, "Transfer of Ge­netic Material Coding for the Degradation of Halogenated Aromatics in Sequenc­ing Batch Reators," by Dr. Miguel Angel Rubio, Technical University of Hamburg-Harburg, West Germany, Cushing Hall, Room 303. 
4 p.m.: Department of Chemistry Reilly lecture, "Small Transition Metal Clusters: Sterochemical-Bonding Analysis and Electrochemical-chemical Reac­tivity Patterns," by Dr. Lawrence Dahl, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7:30 
p.m.: Volleyball NDW vs. Illinois, Chicago, JACC. 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey ND vs. Windsor, JACC Ice Arena. 

7:30 
& 9:30p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Summer," directed by Eric Rohmer, France, Annenberg Auditorium. Saturday 


9:30 a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous Closed Meeting, sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Center for Social Concerns, Multi-purpose room, Center for Social Concerns. .. 
12 p.m.: Football ND vs. Navy. Sunday 1 p.m. -6 p.m.: Center for Social Concerns Urban Plunge Activities, Library Auditorium. 2 p.m.: Friends of the Snite Museum free guided tour for the general public 
of the Snite Museum. 2 p.m.: Graduate Organ Recital by John Paul Cappa, Sacred Heart Church. 2 p.m.-4 p.m.: Opening Art Exhibition, Rembrandt Etchings: The Fedderson 
Collection, Snite Museum of Art. 2 p.m.: Soccer SMC vs. Seina Heights College, SMC Soccer Field. 4 p.m.: Center for Social Concerns Spanish Mass, Fr. Pat Foley, C.S.C. presid­
ing, Farley Hall Chapel. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Monte Cristo Sandwich 
French Dip Sandwich 
London Broil 
Batter Fried Fish Quiche Lorraine Cheese Souffle Manicotti Deli Bar 
Comics 


ACROSS Islands of Galway 
5 Scrawny one 10 Red planet 14 A bean 15 Biblical 
pronoun 16 Pointed arch 17 Impertinent 
one 18 Kind Lear's 
daughter 19 Algerian port 20 A certain pull 23 Back talk 24 Neap or ebb 25 Bouquet 28 -Na Na 30 Units of force 34 Stannum 35 Legume 36 Stick firmly 37 Sun, Earth, 
Jupiter, etc. 41 Strangers 42 Drink 43 Cuckoo © 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 44 TV summer 
All Rights Reserved 
fare 45 Fresh 7 Latvian city 46 Sects 8 Buddhist 48 Straw doctrine 50 Cup handle 9 Muslim spirits 51 Soma 1 0 Silvery fish 
heavenly 11 Ind. city 
bodies 12 Genuine 57 Nothing 13 Kyoto money 58 Desecrates 21 By way of 59 A gas 22 In an unusual 61 Richard of manner 
films 25 Stock term 62 Unit of grass 26 Moon valley 63 Make null 27 Walking ­64 Dinar sign (euphoric) 65 Gr. Island 28 Ocean 66 Kind of party 29 Writer Bret 
31 Of birth DOWN 32 Occurrence 

1 Paclno and 33 Certain trucks 
Martino 35 Scores: abbr. 45 Body of gas 52 Small ­2 Circle 36 Civil War In space 53 0' Flaharty 3 Asian bigwig letters 46 Feline 54 Inside: pref. 4 Type of bomb 38 Uncharged 47 Planet 55 Lease 5 Denude particles 49 Biting remarks 56 Soft drink 6 Atkins or 39 Boredom 50 Sharp curves 57 Zulder ­
Huntley 40 Evergreen 51 Star In Lyra 60 Egg ­
''''"""'""'"'-·"-"--··-""""""'-==-=--""""""------------------------------------­

Sports
page 20 Friday, October 30, 1987 
Irish hockey opens season under Schafer 
Veteran team opens with Windsor, Ont. 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
For the first time since 1926, a Notre Dame hockey team will start a season without Charles "Lefty" Smith directing the Irish. 
And new coach Ric Schafer, in his first year replacing the man who reestablished the hockey program in 1968, is con­fident the Irish will make this a season to remember. 
"The will to win has been there, but now we'll just have to do more to ensure those wins," said Schafer, whose squad opens tne season tonight against Windsor. "This team lost far too many close games last year -now it's our turn to to change that." 
Notre Dame finished last season with a 10-19-1 record, with a 5-11-1 mark in games decided by two goals or less, and with a 2-11-1 record on the roa• . . The Irish lost only two pla~ ers to graduation, but Schafer isn't so sure the extra year of experience will make a 
see HOCKEY, page 15 
· Sala_?~])~~-i~__t?e ~~r_e"])~~e.Ere~s box. Represen-___ :'~~~-ry _:-v_e~~ I go over our four goals -w~~!:~ we free to students with their I.D . 
• 

-
Kevin Markovitz and the Notre Dame hockey team open the 1987-88 season tonight under first-year 
•
Offensive line has Holtz smiling 1n '87 
What a difference a year makes. _ Last year, heading into the Navy game, the Irish , were a gutwrenching 2-4. Close, disappointing -losses were the standard. ~ This year's standard is winning -convincingly. ' Instead of glumly groping for explanations after 
games, Head Coach Lou Holtz has been able to smile and laugh with reporters afterward. Yes, he still has concerns with a defense beset with injuries and two quarterbacks who are, as Holtz said at his weekly press conference Tuesday, "only eight weeks old." 
With a 'baby' at quarterback, Holtz has turned to the old men of his squad-the offensive line. With four fifth-year starters, the line has opened up high­ways for Irish ballcarriers. In two games, Notre Dame quarterbacks Tony Rice and Kent Graham have thrown the ball 17 times while handing off 137 
_times for 705 yards. 
! It's not often that a line gets attention. It's in 
i vogue with sportwriters to say that, but this time 
it's deserved. They've been the reason for Notre 
.. 
Dame's success this season._ 
Last Saturday afternoon was unofficially Fruit 
• ne uoserver 1 t-He 1-'noto coach Ric Schafer at the Joyce ACC. The Irish take on the University of Windsor, Ontario. 
First-year skipper no stranger 
By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 
N a nook of the North has. come back home. 
Ric Schafer, a former Irish hockey captain and assistant coach, has returned to become Notre Dame's new head coach. Schafer was the head man for Alaska-Fairbanks for the past seven seasons, starting that program from scratch. 
"I've got a lot of fond memories from this place," Schafer says, "and I'm ex­tremely pleased to be back. We are on a mission to restore Notre Dame hockey to the stat­ure it was at." 
Schafer replaces the man who guided the varsity hockey program for all of its 19 years, Charles "Lefty" Smith. 
"The most important thing that I learned from Lefty was how to deal with players," Schafer notes. "He cares about his players almost to a fault, almost too much." 
As a player for Notre Dame, Schafer played in 139 games, 
see SCHAFER, page 15 
tatives from the Orange, Sugar, Citrus and Peach are on them, if they're realistic and if tht v're still Bowls were present as were reps from the Cotton, alive. All four goals are possible. I'll be th,• first to Fiesta, Gator, Liberty, Freedom, Hall of Fame, Sun grant you it's one in a million, but we still have a and Bluebonnet Bowls. With all those coats up there, chance." it was more like an upholsterer's convention than a football game. ••• 
Monday, Oct. 19, is definitely a date that will live Dennis in history. The stock market fell more than 500 points in a single day, U.S. forces bombed IranianCorrigan bases on oil wells, and George Steinbrenner hired Billy Martin to manage the Yankees for the fifth
Sports Editor 
time. The world's a strange, interesting and sometimes 
It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that frightening place. the Irish are still a prime contender for any bowl on any day in America. Tuesday, Holtz reluctantly ••• discussed the goals he and his squad laid out for themselves before the season and assessed where Game of the Week -As the endearing South Bend they stand. temperatures begin their inexorable climb 
"We listed four goals before the season," Holtz downward, Irish athletics begin to take to the great said. "One was to have a winning season, which we indoors. Friday night the Notre Dame hockey team ­have a chance to have this Saturday. The second opens its season with the first of two games against · was to play in a bowl game. Then if we were to Windsor University of Canada on the rink at the play in a bowl game, it would be nice to play on Joyce ACC. There's a new face behind the boards January first. If we were playing on Jan. 1, then we for the Irish this season in Head Coach Ric Schafer. would want to win the National Championship. Don't miss his debut. Admission to both games is 






