'Indecent' TV -page 5 

VOL XXI, NO. 111 TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1987 the independent student rrewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma11·'s ' 
Class officers 


U.S. rescued firm 
elected in
' 


that aided Contras run-off races 
By ROB HENNIG
Associated Press $13,000 to International Busi­Copy Editor
ness Communications was "of WASHINGTON -State De­utmost importance, not just to 
Ellen Nichols was electedpartment officials, citing White the department, but to the Junior Class President by aHouse concern, bypassed nor­White House and the NSC slim 18 votes ahead of Billmal procedures in 1985 to. bail (National Security Council)." 
Pelino, while Dave Kinkopfout a financially strapped com­IBC is a public relations firm was elected Sophomore Classpany that was aiding the that has "apparently been in­President by an almost two­Nicaraguan Contras, a depart­volved in the funneling of thirds margin in runoff elec­ment memo shows. money to secret Swiss bank ac­tions on March 11.
The company, International counts" used in aiding the Con­Kinkopf, Bill Fitzgerald,Business Communications In­tra rebels, according to Rep. 
Mary Mulvaney and Susie Lic., had non-competitive State Dante B. Fascell, D-Fla., 
defeated the ticket of TomDepartment contracts to chairman of the House Foreign Rask, Laurie Hollenbeck, Amy publicize the Contra cause in Mfairs Committee. 
• 
Edinger and Kevin O'Meara by the United States. The State Department memo j

;I I

\ an unofficial tally of 614 to 351.
During the same period, the reveals the Reagan adminis­According to Kinkopf, hiscompany also was involved in tration's interest in IBC at a -­ticket carried every dorm ex­funneling privately raised crucial time for the Contras. 
cept Grace, Zahm, Cavanaugh money to the Contras. This interest flowed from two l and Holy Cross. 
The State Department parallel developments between "The large number of slates
1 I..

memo, obtained by The Asso­January and April 1985. First, ~ and good voter turnout showsciated Press, said an "emer­
•

see CONTRAS, page 6 our great class spirit," saidgency payment" of about -
Kinkopf. "We'd like to thank everyone who supported us,
WVFI broadcasting again 
and we're looking forward to a super year next year." The ticket of Ellen Nichols,

following 3-month hiatus 
James Brown, Colleen Clynes and Paul Salvaty beat Pelino,By JIM RILEY AM signal. She said reaction Tina Chou, Mike Majica and News Editor from people who called the sta­Rob Fisher for Junior class of­tion from dorms on campus ficers. The Nichols ticket wonAfter an absence of about was very positive. 
with 435 votes to Pelino's 417,three months, WVFI, the Most, but not all dorms re­according to Clynes.
campus AM radio station, ported a strong signal. She said Nichols was still on breakbegan broadcasting again the reception in some dorms and unavailable for comment,Monday night. still needs fine tuning and that but Clynes commented, "Itwas"At 6:40p.m. we began our two people were working on the a very close race and we'rebroadcast for the semester," problem Monday night. 
really excited with the tur­said Kara O'Neil, WVFI's new The station still operates on nout."
station manager. She said the carrier current, said O'Neil. 
"I wish more people couldstation had gone off the air WVFI will maintain the same have voted, but it was late. Itbefore finals in December. It basic format that they used last was right before break," saiddid not operate in subsequent semester, according to O'Neil. 
Clynes.
months because of its move The station format is "new, Judicial Coordinator Mariafrom O'Shaughnessy to its new progressive, alternative col­Cintron supervised the elec­quarters on the second floor of lege radio," she said. 
tions, but was still on break andLaFortune Student Center. The station will make some Hoop Hysteria The ObservertMichaei Moran could not be reached. As aO'Neil said the station should Sophomore Zachary Schrantz pulls down a rebound from fellow result, official tallies were not now be supplying a very clear see WVFI, page 3 Sorinites on the bookstore courts. available. 
Haig to announce presidential bid 
of Delaware entered the race return of the vice president." 
Associated Press last September. Rep. Jack His statement was widely re­
NEW York -Alexander M. Kemp of New York is prepar­ported as having angered 
Haig Jr., who once declared "I ing to announce his candidacy senior White House aides. 
am in control here in the White on April 6. Haig has insisted the incident 
House," is attempting to Others readying their cam­was overblown. He said he 
validate that claim with a bid paigns are Vice President called Bush, who was in Texas, 
for the 1988 Republican George Bush, Senate Republi­and "I said, George, I can't tell 
presidential nomination. can leader Bob Dole of Kansas, you why, but turn your plane 
The retired general planned the Rev. Pat Robertson and around and come home and I'll 
to hint at his plans in a speech former Defense Secretary send you a classified mes­
Monday night to a fund-raising Donald Rumsfeld. sage." 
dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria Trying to separate himself He said he found the White 
Hotel and to declare his can­from the rest of the Republican House in disarray and decided 
didacy formally at a news con­field, Haig emphasizes his "it was absolutely essential 
ference Tuesday morning. resume and his experience ser­that we reassure the world, the 
Like other Republican hope­ving presidents in time of nation and, above all, the So­fuls, Haig has campaigned in crisis. viet Union that we had a func­Iowa and New Hampshire, the He was White House chief of tioning government and a re­states that traditionally lead staff when Richard M. Nixon sponsible one." 
off the primary and caucus resigned as president and A native of Bala-Cynwyd, season. In his early appear­served as President Reagan's Pa., Haig, 63, was graduated ances, he has emphasized his first secretary of state. from West Point and served as service to seven presidents, Shortly after Reagan was Henry A. kissinger's deputy in dating back to Dwight D. wounded in an assassination at­the White House. Mter Nixon Eisenhower. tempt on March 30, 1981, Haig resigned, Haig was named 
His entry into the race would appeared in the White House commander of NATO forces in make Haig the second declared press room and told reporters, Europe. candidate for the GOP nomina­''As of now, I am in control here 
see HAIG, page 5

tion. Former Gov. Pete du Pont in the White House pending the. 

Man arrested with shotgun given fine and probation 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI The men had told the gate News Editor officer they were going to South Dining Hall. The offi­A man arrested outside of cer, however, watched them 
Lyons and Morrissey halls drive past it. 
last semester after a shot­When Security officers ap­gun was found in his car has proached Dutka in the Lyons 
been fined $100 and placed Hall parking lot he was on court parole for six standing alone next to his ve­months, Notre Dame Secur­hicle. One ofthe officers said ' 
ity Director Rex Rakow con­he saw another man walking 
firmed yesterday. 
towards Morrissey Hall. 
Daniel J. Dutka, 19, of Gos­Dutka claimed he was on 
hen Ind. plead guilty to a campus to drop off a 
misdemeanor charge of ille­hitchhiker he had picked up 
gal possession of a sawed-off in Goshen, the statement shotgun the week before said. Dutka said he had 
spring break, said Rakow. agreed to take the man to According to a Security Notre Dame in exchange for 
statement released the day a beer. after the arrest, Security According to the state­was called at about 9:30p.m. ment, Dutka said the man on Oct. 6 after a gate officer identified himself as Will noticed the "suspicious ac­Cavanaugh.tivity" of two men who had 
There is no student by that just entered campus in a car driven by Dutka. see SHOTGUN, page 4 
The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1987-page 2 

In Brief 
The 21-year-old Notre Dame student charged with last semester's accident resulting in the death ·of junior Michael Cogswell faces a possible punishment of one year in prison and up to a $5,000 fine. The March 17 trial has been continued to April 2. -The Observer 
Corby Tavern's will have its fate determined on April 7. The question of whether or not the bar will open was to have been answered March 17, but the trial was postponed because of a lack of evidence. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
The Black Cultural Festival will hold its last event, a lecture and slide show presentation by artist Bill Slack, in the library auditorium at 7:00pm. The title of the lecture will be "Spirit House: the Responsibility of the Black Art Community to Project Positive Images." -The Observer 
Bicycles can be picked up by students who stored them for the winter today and Wednesday from 3:00 to 5:00pm at Gate 14 of the Stadium. -The Observer 
Five films about South Africa will be shown at the Center for Social Concerns between March 24 and April 
1. Each of the films will be shown in the multi-purpose room beginning at 8:00 pm. The first film is entitled, "South Africa: The White Laager."-The Observer 
"The Role of theNational Government in the Revival of Federalism" will be the topic of a lecture given by Charles J. Cooper, assistant U.S. attorney general. The lecture will be held Wednesday at noon in room 121 of the Law School. -The Observer 
"Genetic Aspects of Arteriosclerosis" is the title of the lecture to be given today by Dr. Angelo Scanu of the University of Chicago. The lecture will take place at 
4:30 in 283 Galvin. -The Observer 
The Isis Gallery will feature an exhibition of ceramics by Stephen Mickey from March 24 through April 
10. Works to be exhibited include a variety of platters, vases, stoneware and porcelain. The Gallery is located on the third floor of Riley Hall and viewing hours are 8: 30 to 
5:00. Monday through Ftjday.-The Observer 
The Chemistry Department will sponsor a lecture series by Dr. Charles R. Cantor from Columbia University. The lectures, on aspects of genetics, will be held Wednesday and Thursday in 123 Nieuwland at 4:30 each afternoon. -The Observer 
~Weather 
Listen to the rhythm of the falling rain as clouds increase today with a 40 percent chance of thundershowers in the afternoon. Mild with high around 65. A 70 percent chance of thundershowers tonight. Mild with low 40 to 45. A 60 per­cent chance of thundershowers Wednes­day. Cooler with high 50 to 55. -Associ­ated Press 


Deaign Editor ................. Chris Donnelly Deaign ABBiBtant .......... Eileen Lawrence Typeaettera ........................... Jose Novas ......................................... Shawn Sexton Newa Editor ......................... Chris Julka Copy Editor . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . Diane Schroeder Sparta Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen 
Viewpoint Copy Editor . . . . . . . Sara Marley Accent Copy Editor ............. Tom Beatty TypiBt .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor .................. Ron Almiron SMC Day Editor . . . . . Theresa Harrington Ad Design.......... . . . . . . . . . Michael Whitton Photographer ...................... Mike Moran 
The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame. lndiana46556. 
The Observer is a member of Tbe Assocl•ted Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


New campus leaders at ND stand on shoulders of giants 
Surprisingly, the weather is an indication. 
Spring has sprung, and with the warm wea­ther and sunny skies come quite a few new beginnings. 
Of course, the most important beginning for us at The Observer is the new general board that has taken over the production of the news­paper. It seems quite ironic that we should be in such new positions while most of the campus is on the downslide to finals. 
But we at The Observer do not seem to have as much of a new beginning to deal with as the folks down at WVFI, Notre Dame's student radio station that signed on for the first time in three months Monday at 6:40p.m. 
After that long period of anticipation, the stu­dents who will fill the airwaves of the campus with their voices and selected music have new offices, new equipment and better reception in most every dormitory. It is fitting that their newfound life is ushered in with the seasonal new life of spring. 
In just eight days, the new crew at student government will also be moving the crayons off the desks and putting their nameplates up. April Fool's Day seems to be an appropriate time for their turnover if only to remind them, and all of us, not to take ourselves too seriously. 
Of course, there are other groups that will be turning over the reins very soon to new faces all over the campus; a certain administration comes to mind when I think of this. Fathers Hesburgh and Joyce will have their swan song this May to make way for Fathers Malloy and Beauchamp. 
But this transition, more than any other, reminds us that with every new beginning their is an end. Monday, The Observer distributed nearly 40,000 special issues celebrating Fathers Hesburgh and Joyce's 35 years of service to the Notre Dame Family; every living Notre Dame alumnus will receive this issue through the mail. I am sure these two leaders will be happy to take a well-deserved rest after 35 years of consistent work, but I have to speculate that they may miss making the familiar walk to their offices next September. 
Even though they have not been around here for 35 years, the student leaders who are giving up their posts this spring may feel the same remorse about having their work completed. When someone puts their entire heart and soul into a job or an organization for an entire year, it becomes a part of him, a part of his life. To have to give up that part of one's self, no matter the time of year, is terribly difficult. 
I can only imagine that this campus' leaders who are vacating their offices and titles feel very much similar to this community's seniors, 
Kevin 
.~ 


Becker 
Editor-in-Chief 

Filling #le shoes off Exi\-iYB (Jf-ea:ts soon, for the most part, to give up therr status as students. And we, the ones who come to fill their shoes, stand anxiously awaiting and en­joying the beginning of our new experience, like those high school seniors who will flood the campus as freshmen next August. But we who stand in the portal of our new terms owe much to those that came before us. Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink at least owe Mike Switek and Don Montanaro thanks for making student government a little more light-hearted. The new staff at WVFI who will be enjoying all around improved quality owe much apprecia­tion to those on the old staff who helped make it all possible. The new general board of The Observer also owes much gratitude to all those who have worked here for so long through many difficult times and now find themselves leaving. To all those who made the special "Hesburgh issue" possible, not to mention a success, we say "thank you." A quotation dedicated to "Father Ted" in a Chicago Club advertisement in the special issue seems a fitting farewell for all those who take leave of their various jobs, offices and roles in life this spring. In the words of Sir Isaac New­ton, "The only reason we see farther today is because we have stood on the shoulders of giants." 
Anti-VIolence Activist 

Center lor Teaching Non-Violence & NCTV lull-time atall. Lodging & $6000/yr. Reaearch on aggression, clearinghouse, publishing & lobbying against violence Including TV, film, war toys, sports, erotica. Next to U Illinois. Student loans deferable. 217·384-1920. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign il 61820 
AUTOS 

79 Pontiac Bonneville AMf'M Cassette, 5spd. Loaded. $6700 
81 Buick Park Ave. Loaded. $5000 

83 Ford Escort, AMf'M Cassette, 4spd. Clean. $3000 
84 Reliant K Wagon Good condition. $4900 
84 Ford Escort, AM Radio, Nice. $3650 

86 Nissan Pulsar, AMf'M Cassette, 5spd. $7670 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
FOR SALE BY 

NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 

TRUCKS 

85 Chevy Astro Cargo Van, Standard Options $8000 
85 Ford Pickup, 5th Wheel 4spd, Dual Tanks, Trailer Hitch & Brakes. $7670 
MOTORCYCLE 

84 Harley Davidson, Purple, Great Shape. $3000 65 Elcona 
(2 Bedroom) 
$3000 
Can been seen 
only by appointment 


Now on display at the Main Office on 19033 Douglas Road. Or Call Robert Outly for more information at 239-5646. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1987 -page 3 

Japanese steel plant possible in South Bend 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-A $400 mil­lion joint-venture steel plant by Inland Steel Co. and Nippon Steel Corp. of Japan apparently will be built in the South Bend area. 
State officials all but con­firmed that South Bend had beat out Indianapolis for the plant Monday. 
"I think it's done," said state Rep. B. Patrick Bauer, D-South Bend. "It's about as close as it can be without having the papers formally signed." 
Gov. Robert D. Orr and Lt. Gov. John M. Mutz announced that they would hold a news conference at 10:30 a.m. Tues­day in South Bend. 
"My commitment to the two companies is that I won't com­ment until they've made an an­nouncement," Mutz said. "But it's no secret I'll be in South Bend tomorrow. 
"I'm enthusiastic about In­diana's opportunity. I'm opti­mistic about the decision." 
The Indianapolis News quoted a source familiar with the negotiations as saying the plant would be located at New Carlisle, about 15 miles northwest of South Bend. 
Indianapolis Mayor William Hudnut said he had been given an indication in December during a meeting with Inland r.hairman Frank W. Luerssen 
that Indianapolis was in second place to South Bend. 
"It was a question of geogra­phy," Hudnut told The News. "They wanted to be closer to the major customers in Detroit and Toledo." 
Mutz had said earlier this month that the state sweetened its package of economic incen­tives to lure the plant. 
The News said the state upped its ante despite the plant's promise of a relatively small number of jobs. The News' source said the state Commerce Department saw the advantage to the state's economy by landing a "capital intensive" factory. 
Nippon and Inland were ex­pected to sign Monday a joint agreement to operate the plant. 
In a recent filing with the Se­curities and Exchange Com­mission, Inland said the project had jumped in cost to more than $400 million from the $2!'\fl million estimated when fir proposed in 1984. 
The Chicago Tribune r ported Monday that Nippon and Inland would provide $150 million toward the project, while a group of foreign lenders would provide the rest of the financing in return for an inter­est in the mill. 
The mill would have the capacity to produce one million tons of high-quality sheet steel a year for the auto and ap­pliance markets, the Tribune said. 

GRADUATE NURSES 
Your education will not end with graduatton. As a graduate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will recetve a comprehensive twelve-week-long, fully-paid orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orjentation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Graduates apply now for positions available in1987. Starting salary $23,681. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed acute'cau~ Meyo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital Personnel Services Nursing Recruitment Section 201 West Center Street Rochester, MN 55902 Cell Collect: (507) 288-7091 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MiF 
TR:J'&eltT NAVAL SOCIETY Is Proud To Announce Its 1987 RAFFLE WINNERS 
-JVC CD Player:  DOUG ATCHINSON  
-$50.00 Gift Certificate at Tracks Records:  DIANNE REED  
-$25.00 Gift Certificate at Domino's Pizza:  ERIC CRUZ  


A Special Thanks to ALL Who Participated! 

Associated Press 
RHEINDAHLEM, West Ger­many -A car bomb exploded 
late  Monday  at  the  British  
army  and  air  force  
headquarters  in  West  Ger­ 

many, and an undetermined number of people were injured, West German police said. 
The bomb exploded in a car parked outside an officers' mess at the British Army of the Rhine and Royal Air Force headquarters in Rheindahlem, a police spokesman in the neighboring city of Moenchengldbach said. 
"There are definitely a num­ber of people injured, but we don't know yet how many and how badly," police spokesman Peter Kueppers told The Asso­ciated Press in a telephone in­terview. 
Kueppers said public access to the officers' mess hall had been unrestricted, in contrast to other areas of the Rheindah­lem base. 
A british military spokesman at Rheindahlem contacted by telephone by the AP said only that "an explosion" had oc­curred at 10:30 p.m. at the "joint headquarters complex." 
"The matter is being inves­tigated by the civil and military police," said the spokesman, who declined to be identified by name. He said he had no fur­ther information. 
No other details were imme­diately available. 
The Rheindahlem base is lo­cated about 18 miles west of Duesseldorf 
ND receives $5,419,680 in grants 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $5,419,680 in grants during February for the support of research and various programs. Research funds totaled $5,364,585, includ­ing:
*$2,510,807 from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and subcontracted by Purdue University for re­search headed by John D. Dow, Freimann professor of physics, on semiconductor materials. 
*$1,524,479 from Defense Ad­vanced Research Projects Agency and subcontracted by Purdue University for re­search by Jacek K. Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics, on semiconductor materials. 
* 
$360,025 from Martin Marietta Energy System for research by Thomas H. Kosel, associate professor of metal­lurgical engineering and ma­terials science, on erosive par­ticle rebound parameters. 

* 
$252,627 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by George B. Craig Jr., Clark profesor of biological 


sciences, on factors affecting vector competence in Aedes Triseria tus. 
* $225,000 from Johnson & Johnson for research by Morris Pollard, Coleman Director of Lobund and professor emeritus of biological sciences, and David L. Snyder, assistant pro­fessional specialist in Lobund, on markers of aging and reduc­tion of background pathology 
*$177,279from the U.S. Navy for research by Thomas J. Mueller, professor of aero­space and mechanical engi­neering on boundary layer characteristics on low Reynolds number airfoils. 
* 
$81,700 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by J acek K. Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics, on the neutron scattering of diluted magnetic semiconduc­tors. 

* 
$78,342 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by John G. Borkowski, professor pf psychology, and Scott E. Maxwell, associate professor of physchology, on metacognition, motivation, and inefficient learning. 


The Observer 
The Independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Resume and personal statement are due by Friday, March 27 at 5 p.m. Questions should be directed to 
Marilyn Benchik at 284-5365 or 239-5313. 
* $70,963 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Lawrence H. Lee, professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, on wrinkling in sheet metal. 
*$33,000 from the U.S. Army for research by Thomas P. Fehlern, chairman and profes­sor of chemistry, on metal­laboranes as precursors to metallic glasses. 
*$30,500 from the Occidental Chemical Corp. for research by Robert L. Irvine, professor of civil engineering, on the im­mobilized enzyme treatment of xenobiotic organic compounds. 
*$14, 988 from the Jet Propul­sion Laboratory for research by Panagiotis J. Antsaklis, as­sociate professor of electrical engineering, on intelligent con­troller architectures for future space vehicles. 
* $4,875 from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation for research by Geraldine B. Ameriks, adjunct instructor in modern and classical lan­guages, on the impact of Kan­tian autonomy. 
WVFI 
continuedfrom page 1 
minor changes in program­ming. A list of campus events will be presented at the top of each hour, according to O'Neil. She said the station will start hiring its own reporters who will cover campus news. This would supplement the Associ­ated Press news reports the station currently provides. 
Seventy disc jockeys plus en­gineers and news, sports, and production personnel currently work for WVFI, according to O'Neil. 
~---~------~~-----­
Tuesday, March 24, 1987-page 4 
The Observer 
Israel bombs base in southern Lebanon 
Associated Press 
TEL Aviv, Israel -Israeli warplanes Monday attacked a guerrilla headquarters in south Lebanon, the army command reported. It was the second air attack against guerrillas in south Lebanon in four days. 
According to the military communique, the planes bombed a building serving as a planning base for guerrilla at­tacks against Israel. 
The attack occurred at 6:25 
a.m. All planes returned safely to base and the pilots reported accurate hits on their target, the military communique said. 
The raid was likely linked to a series of violent incidents in­volving Israel and the guerril­las over the weekend. 
Israeli soldiers killed two guerrillas in south Lebanon Saturday night northwest of the predominantly Druse village of Hasbaya, eight miles north of the Israeli border, the military command said Sunday. It gave no further details. 
Military sources quoted a senior military officer in the army's northern command as saying he was "not optimistic" that Israel's northern border would remain quiet. 
He said hundreds of Lebanese and Palestinian militiamen traveled from Beirut to south Lebanon after the Syrian deployment in the Lebanese capital and the guer­rillas might act against Israel, according to the sources, who demanded anonymity. 
Islamic kidnappers offer to release hostage 
Associated Press born in Syria and has close ties to the Palestine Liberation Or­
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Moslem ganization of Yassir Arafat. kidnappers said Monday an In its statement, the group American hostage is so ill he holding the four college teach­may die soon and offered to ers said: "We announce that trade him for 100 Arab American spy Alann Steen has prisoners held in Israel. fallen sick. His physical condi­
Another group said it had tion may deteriorate and he canceled plans to kill a French may die within 10 days as doc­captive. tors who advised care for his 
A handwritten statement in condition have said." Arabic delivered to the Beirut His brother Bruce said in newspaper An-Nahar said Stockton, Calif.: "I had no idea Alann Steen, 47, of Boston he was sick. As far as I know "may die within 10 days" and he was in good health. demanded that the United States persuade Israel to make The statement said the group the exchange. would draw up the list of names 
It was signed by Islamic of prisoners it wants freed Jihad for the Liberation of along with a detailed plan for Palestine, which holds Steen, the swap, "if the American ad­two other Americans and an In­ministration asked us to do dian. All were teachers at this." Beirut University College when they were abducted from the A previous offer to trade the west Beirut campus in Janu­four teachers for 400 Arab ary. prisoners was withdrawn be­
In Washington, White House cause the Israelis refused to spokesman Roman Popadiuk negotiate and the United States said, "We hold the captors re­did not pressure them to do so. sponsible for the safety of the The other two kidnapped hostages and we will not pres­teachers are Jesse Turner, 39, sure any third parties into of Boise, Idaho, and Mithilesh­giving in to terrorists' war Singh, 60, an Indian who demands." has resident alien status in the 
An-Nahar said the statement United States. was accompanied by a photo­Normandin said in the graph of another of the four videotape from Revolutionary hostages, 53-year-old Robert Justice that his kidnappers put Polhill of New York City. him on trial and "I was judged 
The Revolutionary Justice and accused. . . . The sentence Organization released a is suspended for the time being, videotape of French hostage thanks to Fadlallah and Jean-Louis Normandin, 35. It Capudji." The four-minute said plans to kill him Tuesday tape was delivered to a West­had been canceled because of ern news agency in west appeals from Sheik Beirut. Mohammed Hussein Fadlallah and Greek Catholic Archbishop A statement from the groupHilarion Capudji. last week claimed Normandin 
Fadlallah is the most influen­confessed to spying for the tial Shiite Moslem cleric with French and Israeli secret ser­Lebanon's Iranian-backed vices. He was kidnappedmilitant factions. Capudji was March 8, 1986. 
Shotgun 
continued/rom page 1 
name in the Notre Dame phone directory. 
After officers unsuccessfully searched for Dutka's pas­senger, Dutka offered to produce the man's phone num­ber, which he said was in his car. 
When Dutka reached into his car Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security Phil Johnson noticed what appeared to be a short shotgun on the floor of the car, said the statement. The shotgun, a Sears model 20­guage single shot, was par­tially covered and was loaded with a single cartridge. 
Security officers then removed Dutka from the car, searched and handcuffed him. He was then taken to Saint Joseph County Jail. 

AP Photo the second against Palestinian guerrilla targets in four days and the eighth air attack into Lebanon this year. Story at left. 
rocketed the two-story building in an early raid, 

TRY A FREE SAMPLE OF 
AND ENTER THE 
WITH 

AT LA FORTUNE CENTER 
----------------~------------------­
OFFICIAL ENTRY RULES 
1 ~;~~~~~~~~~; c;l~ee;:;s!~~~~~~!~~~y~s11l~~~u:e~:~a~llr:si'~l %:,~~,S~~,~~dc~:,~~~~~~n r~~::::;~~;~ CorporAhon theJr ai!Jiiates and agenctM Void where proh1b1ted by taw 
2 HOW TO ENTER No purchase necessary Complete the Olllclal Entry Form a~llllabte at the '"Rock On With Oh Henry·· booth at your partiCipating college bookstore Or you may hand pnnt or type your entry on 113""•5"" ptece of paper w1th your name addres!! college and the .,..ords "Rock On w1lh Oh Henry 

Place t>ntry 1n the entry bo• at your part1C1pat1ng college store or send entry to "Rock On w1th Oh Henry· Sweepstakes 
P.O Bo~438 To receive your free bar Cranbury N J 06512 
fill in the required information 
Entnes must be rece1~ect by Apnl 1 1987 Sponsor not responSible lor tate. lost or misdirected entries Enter as ollen as you like but each entry must be ma1led separately No mechan1cally reproduced then bring this coupon in the bookstore/ entnesaccepted Hurry! Quantities are limited 
3 Grand Pr11e IS 4 REO Speedw~on concert t1ckets plus 5250 cash The Grand Pnze wmner w1U besete<:ted 1n a random draw1ng !rom all entnes rece1~ed pnor10 deadline by MarketSource Corporahon The winner 
ONE PER STUDENT ONLY 
Will bP notJIIed by ma11 and w1ll be reQUired 10 s•gn an Atlidav11 ol Ellg1bihty and Release 4 At eacl"l part1C1pat1ng campus the tollow1ng prLZeS w1U De awarded voa a random drawmg (II F11st Pflze SSOOO casn plus 2 concen t1ckets Ill Second Pflze 2 concert t•ckets (It Th~rd Pnze S20 00 Bookstore Gill Certllicate (50! Fourth Pnzes ..~ock On With Oh Henry"" T ..Sh1rts 
Name--------------
Wmners w1ll be notJ11ed by ma1t and Will be reqUired to 51gn an Alflda~11 ot Eliglbihly and Release 5 SPECIAL BONUS 50 On Henry T·ShlfiS w1ll be l"landed out to the llrst students depoS11!ng the1r entry at parltCipahng bookstores Address------------­
6 ~:~~~~~~~~~~p 1~~e ~~':!!~~~~ uio:~e:o~!:~~,t~,:::~~~~~~~n':rA:~i:!!~ property ot Nestle Fooo Corporauon No en!nes will be returned Orawmg w1U be conducted by an 
City ____ State ___ Zip Code ___ 
~':'::S~~:~ ~r~~~~ ,~'X:~ • z;t•~~tnose deciSions shall be linlill Ofl all mailers related 10 the
11 

7 Grand and F1rst Pme W1nners w111 be reQuited to e~ecute an All1dav•t ol Ehg1b1hty and Lillblllty/Publoc Release w•1n1n tO days or an altern1ue w1nr•er w111 be selected No pr1ze $ubst1tul!one~cept by sponsor due 
Phone#(~"------------­
to unavtulab•hty No transters L1m1t one pnze per nousehold 8 WINNERS LIST For list of ma,or w10ners send a sell-addressed stamPed erwetopeto be rece1~ed by Apnl 1 1987 to Rock On wrtn On Hemy Sweepstakes co Marke!Source COrporatron tO Abeel Road Cranbury N J 08512 
This coupon is your entry to the Rock On with Oh Henry I Sweepstakes 
~-----------------------------------J 

• ----------~---~----~-------' 
Tuesday, March 24, 1987-page 5 
The Observer 
Court strikes down law banning 'indecent' TV 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Su­preme Court on Monday tied the hands of state officials seeking to ban sexually explicit material and nudity from cable television. 
By a 7-2 vote, the court struck down a Utah law that prohibited "indecent" pro­grams on cable broadcasts ex­cept during the hours of mid­night to 7 a.m. 
Utah officials, conceding their drive against sexually ex­plicit material has been thwarted, said their only hope may be a change some day in the composition of the high court. 
In other action, the court: 
-Rejected an appeal by major league baseball players seeking a legal right to millions of dollars in revenue from televised games. The court let stand a ruling that major league baseball's 26 team owners have a copyright on the telecasts. 
-Agreed to hear a Reagan ad­ministration appeal aimed at making it easier for the gov­ernment to deport illegal aliens. The court said it will review a decision ordering fur­ther administrative hearings for a California man trying to 
avoid  return  to  his  native  
Ghana.  
-Ruled  that  federal  judges  
may  suspend  extra  prison  

terms a 1984 federal law re­quires for people who commit crimes while awaiting trial on a previous charge. 
-Cleared the way for prose­cution in California on child­stealing charges of a fun­damentalist Christian woman who said her son should not be living with the boy's homo­sexual father. 
-Let stand a ruling from Pennsylvania that states may place strict controls on the sales and marketing practices of motion picture distributors. 
-Left intact an affirmative action plan for the promotion of blacks to lieutenant in the Cincinnati Fire Department. 
In the cable TV case, the court issued a one-sentence decision upholding a federal appeals court ruling. Chief Jus­tice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor voted to hear arguments in the case, but four votes are needed to grant such review. 
Utah Attorney General David Wilkinson said, "I would think most legislatures are going to want to wait and see what changes take place on the court in the next two or three years before they do anything further." 
State Sen. Paul Rogers of Utah, sponsor of the law struck down Monday, said, "The Su­preme Court has spoken. The states have been given their signals. I don't see myself or the legislature being involved in an overture." 
Bryan McDougal, a lawyer for the cable companies that challenged the law, said, "I think it (Monday's ruling) was a monumental decision for cable operators and sub­scribers." 
Ten states joined Utah in ur­ging the Supreme Court to per­mit regulation of indecent ma­terial on cable TV. They are Arizona, Kansas, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Washington and West Virginia. 

How to start your law career Defore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
LSAT: 6/16/87 !KAPLAN STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER LTD.  
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE.  
*CLASSES  SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135  

K· INDEPENDENT STUDY *NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS *TRANSFER DISCOUNTS! 

AP Photo 

square in Manila. The 24 senatorial candidates are campaigning for the May 11 election. 
Bakker: Blackmail part of plot 
Associated Press 
FORT Mill, S.C. -Resigning from the PTL cable television ministry was the only way to thwart a "diabolical plot" to overthrow it, evangelist Jim Bakker said Monday as he and his wife appeared on television for the first time since they stepped down. 
Bakker revealed Thursday that he had been blackmailed over a sexual encounter seven years ago. But he said Monday that the takeover attempt and not the blackmail plot was the reason he turned his 500,000­member charismatic ministry over to Moral Majority leader Jerry Falwell, a Baptist fun­damentalist. 
During a segment of the PTL program recorded at the Palm Springs, Calif., home of Bakker and his wife, Tammy, Bakker said that unveiling the sexual encounter and blowing it out of proportion was to have been the first step of the takeover plot. 
"In talking with the attor­neys, in talking with our ad­visors, they advised us that the only way to save PTL from this 
hostile takeover was for Jim Bakker to resign," said Bak­ker. 
Bakker, who also has submit­ted his resignation as a pen­tecostal minister, said PTL at­torneys have obtained documents detailing the al­leged takeover plot by a "well­known individual." 
The unidentified man "literally called and warned people of the very hour they planned the destruction and (told them) not to come to PTL and be there when it was to fall," said Bakker, who spent 13 years to make a $172 million empire out of PTL, which stands for "Praise the Lord" and "People that Love." 
The next phase of the takeover plan was to manipu­late church leaders by "putting into their hands" the accusa­tions. 
"They made a mistake. They contacted too many honest ministers," Bakker said, and "the plan was revealed to us." 
New York lawyer Roy Grut­man, who represents Bakker, said in a telephone interview that Falwell. a fundamentalist 
~¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
Sunshine Promotions Presents -In Concert-
HUEY LEWIS 
and The News Sunday April 5 
7:30 pm Notre Dame ACC Reserved seats: $16.50 
Tickets available at the ACC Gate 1 0 Box Office or charge by phone (219) 239-7356 
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
Baptist, was one of the "honest ministers" referred to by Bak­ker. Grutman declined to iden­tify the leader of the alleged takeover attempt, saying only that it was another evangelist. 
The Charlotte Observer, in reporting about the Bakkers' 
resignations,  revealed  the  
sexual  encounter  and  the  
blackmail.  

"I can't believe a newspaper has the right to bring someth­ing up that was seven years old and totally settled between you and me, a husband and wife problem," Mrs. Bakker said. "I think that's so sad." 
"The marriage seminars (at PTL) were started as a result of the hurt in our marriage and the fact that God brought our marriage back together. The people know that. This shouldn't be any news to them." 
Bakker said the sexual encounter was an attempt to make his wife jealous. 
"Tammy and I were having difficulty in our marriage, and I got some idea in my hurt that I could make Tammy jealous and somehow win her back:' 
Haig 
continued from page 1 
When he resigned after 18 months in the Reagan Cabinet, Haig said the administration's foreign policy had strayed from its goals of "consistency, clarity and steadiness of pur­pose." 
While urging audiences to rally around Reagan in his time of troubles brought on by dis­closures of secret arr.ns sales to Iran and diversion of funds to the Contra forces fighting to overthrow the government of Nicaragua, Haig also criticized the administration for "a cas­cade of misjudgments." 
Amo:tg those he cited were "the non-deal deal for Daniloff (the apparent swapping of a So­viet spy suspect for U.S. reporter Nicholas Daniloff) ... the near miss at Reykjavik, the so-called non-summit summit, the disinformation program on Libya and . . . this Iranian brouhaha." 
-·-~-----------~--~----------­
The Observer 

AP Photo
Seeking intruders 
ern Thailand. Chaovalit said 17 Thai soldiersArmy Commander in Chief Gen. Chaovalit have been killed in battles to retake the twoYongchalyuth directs troops at a bunker on a strategic hills. 
hilltop near where the Thais say up to 800 Viet­namese soldiers have intruded into Northeast­
$380,929 given to 'conscience fund' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -It was a banner year for guilt in 1986. Just ask the U.S. Treasury. 
Americans who believed they had defrauded the govern­ment voluntarily sent in $380,929.49 last year, an all­time high for the "conscience fund," set up to allow people to repay Uncle Sam for every­thing from twice-used postage stamps to old Army uniforms. 
James Madison was in the White House when the Trea­sury Department fund was started back in 1811 with a $5 payment sent in by an anonymous donor who wanted to make restitution. 
Over the years, $5.7 million has been received. The dona­tions last year were up almost 50 percent from the previous year. The total was boosted by one contribution of $50,000 
Contras 
continuedfrompage 1 
U.S. government aid to the Con­tras had run out and "elements of the NSC staff focused their efforts on strategies for repackaging the Contra pro­gram to increase support on Capitol Hill," according to the Tower Commission. 
At the same time, Lt. Col. Oliver North, the NSC staff member, later fired, who was involved with secret arms sales to Iran and aid to the rebels, was working on contingency plans to continue private assis­tance, should the aid package fail. 
A report last week by Fas­cell's Foreign Mfairs Commit­tee said that IBC and one of its principals had six non­competitive contracts with the State Department between 1984 and 1986. 
During some of that period, the firm also was retained by Washington fund-raiser Carl "Spitz" Channell to help con­duct a pro-Contra public rela­tions campaign and funnel privately raised money to the Contras. Channell associates have said that as much as $3­million in private aid was given to IBC for humanitarian aid to the Contras. 
The State Department memo from Frank Gardner, then an official of the department's Of­fice of Public Diplomacy for Latin America and the Carib­bean, was addressed to an of­ficial in the comptroller's of­fice. 
which arrived by check without any note of explanation from someone in Mississippi. 
While the Treasury Depart­ment promises anonymity and does not delve into the actions which prompted the contribu­tions, officials did make avail­able some of the letters which accompanied the payments, after deleting all names. 
"This afternoon I found the enclosed coin (10 cents) on the pavement. I am unable to de­termine who the owner is," wrote one exceptionally scrupulous individual. 
Some of the letters refer to actions that have preyed on people's minds for decades. 
"About 58 years ago I took from a railroad station an item worth about $25 and this has been on my conscience since. So I am enclosing $50 to clear my conscience," one letter said. 
"This is to request the usual timing of 25 to 30 days be set aside to make an emergency payment of $12,858 to IBC in response to its bill dated 4-11­85," said the memo, which was dated the same day as IBC's bill. 
"This action is of utmost im­portance, not just to the depart­ment, but to the White House, and the ~SC so that IBC, which finds itself temporarily in dire financial straits, may have !unds in days ahead to intensify 1ts efforts . . . on behalf of the president's Easter peace pro­
Another person wrote, "While serving in the Army Nurse Corps during World War II, I pilfered a small hypoder­mic syringe. Enclosed please find $10 which should cover the cost plus a bit of interest." 
From a former government worker who retired in 1966, "My conscience hurts because I stole government property: two metal panel office dividers with plastic upper portion. I­ask your forgiveness and say I am extremely sorry for this rotten act. Enclosed $50 bill to cover cost. (This material was second hand.) May God and you forgive me." 
Other letters relate more 
recent indiscretions. 

One writer said that his latest tax return filing had omitted some earnings for the past year. 
"My cousin told me I should report my race track winnings?' 
posal for Nicaragua." $12,858 were made under the Reagan's proposal was to $90,000 contract, records show. 
---THETHOMAS J.--­
\ V lHITE CENTER WFORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 
Notre Dame Law School presents a lecture by 
Charles J. Cooper Assistant Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice on The Role of the National Government in the Revival of Federalism Wednesday, March 25 
Noon Room 121 Law School 
provide the rebels with non­lethal equipment unless the Sandinista government entered into serious negotia­tions with the Contras on na­tional reconciliation. 
Congressional investigators, who declined to be identified by name, said they have obtained State Department records showing the first payment un­der the contract was made April 22, 1985, even though the commitment was not formally approved until April 30. 
All told, seven payments of 
-

Senllconductorexpo~ 
to be curbed by Japan 
Tuesday, March 24, 1987 -page 6 
Associated Press 

TOKYO-Japan's trade min­istry, seeking to avert U.S. retaliation against the Japanese semiconductor indus­try, has instructed the nation's chip makers to cut production by as much a third for some products, a ministry official said today. 
Minister of International Trade and Industry Hajime Tamura also has sent Secre­tary of State George Shultz and other top U.S. officials a letter intended to forestall "hasty ac­tion" aimed at Japan's microc­hip industry, said Masaji Yamamoto, deputy director­gneral of MITI's Machinery In­formation Industries Bureau. 
In Washington, President Reagan's Economic Policy Council is scheduled to meet this week and decide what sanctions, if any, should be im­posed on the Japanese chip makers for their alleged "dumping" of chips at unfairly low prices. 
The U.S. semiconductor in­dustry has urged the U.S. gov­ernment to retaliate by impos­ing import duti~s on Japanese products containing semicon­ductors, such as personal com­puters and consumer electronics gear. 
"Lower production by Japan is aimed at preventing price­slashing and dumping result­ing from excessive competi­tion," Yamamoto said in press briefing at the ministry. 
He described the cuts and let­ters to U.S. government offi­cials as part of the ministry's "utmost effort to ward off any possible catastrophe" in semi­conductor trade between the two countries. 
"If hasty action is taken against Japan, it would cause serious problems," Yamamoto said. He declined to elaborate, but added: "of couse we must react to action in the United States." 
Yamamoto said MITI has told the nation's chip manufac­turers to curtail April-June pro­duction of 256-kilobit dynamic random access memory (D­RAM) chips to 111.8 million, down 32 percent from the preceding quarter. D-RAMs are the most widely used com­puter memory devices on the market. 
The ministry also has asked manufacturers to produce 29 percent fewer 64-kilobit chips, 28 percent fewer 128-kilobit chips and 21 percent fewer EPROMs, or erasable, progammable read-only memory chips, during the same period, he said. 
U.S. trade officials have charged that Japanese makers are dumping chips in other countries, and that some of those chips have been re­exported to the United States in violation of a semiconductor agreement between the two countries reached in July. 


ANNUAL SPRING CONCERT 
f·'IAHCH 2 5 I 19 8 7 ·-7 : 3 0 p.M. 
A.thl0tic and Convocation CP.ntP."" TJni VP.roi ty of Notn~ DamP ~UB~!C INVITED -FREE ADMISSION 

View~_o_i_n_t_______ Ma-rch2-4,......
Tu-esda-y, 1987-pa.-.ge7 
The nature of aid is changing with the homeless 
For Gene, his life is not the same as it used to be. He said he had not played golf in quite awhile. 
Ken Kollman 
on politics 

"I used to play with my boss at the country club, but I haven't played in about a year." 
He also talked about his days playing football in high school, "before the days when every lineman was so big." Gene stands about five feet, six inches tall. His job used to pay him very well, he said. Nowadays, Gene doesn't play golf, or football or have a job. In fact, Gene doesn't have his own place to live. He is one of the indeterminate amount of homeless in South Bend who sleep their nights in shelters for the homeless. Gene is not his real name. 
Why another story about the home­less? It's political news these days. The House of Representatives just passed the Urgent Relief for the Homeless Act to provide $500 million in emergency funds for food and shelter for people like Gene. And several celebrities spent the night on heating grates in downtown Washington D.C.last week to show sup­port for the funding. These destitute people are news, both because celebrities have attracted attention to the cause, and because the problem of the homeless appears to be growing and changing. 
The face of the homeless has changed. Gene is a member a new group of homeless that has surfaced in all areas of the country, even those areas of affluence. No longer do the homeless fit the stereotype of the "bum" with a bottle in his mouth and no incentive to work. The homeless today represent a very diverse group. 
Increasingly, these are high school graduates, between the ages of 20 and 45, who have become homeless because of personal failure, either losing a job, losing the lease on their house or apart­ment, or experiencing severe family problems. Mixed in with this group is a number of ex-convicts, mentally ill patients pushed out by the de­institutionalization of state hospitals, drug addicts, and a variety of other per­sons with countless personal stories. One man I talked to has recurring argu­ments with his wife, so he sleeps outside the house several nights a month. An­other lost his job with a newspaper and has no personal savings, so he eats on his food stamps and sleeps at the home­less shelters. 
Estimates by the House Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs put the percentage of woman at about 15 to 25 percent of the homeless. Even more disturbing, there is a growing number of homeless population. These numbers, increasing every year, pres­ent new problems for the shelters. 
Not only has the character of the munity care programs. In other words, homeless themselves changed, but the they admit the homeless will be with nature of the care they receive is chang­us for a long time. ing in many areas and is under intense Nearly everyone who deals with the 
scrutiny. Lawmakers question the homeless agrees that the money from short-term goals established by most Congress is needed desperately, espe­shelters. For the most part, shelters are cially with ambitious programs like the there to provide a bed in a warm build­Federal City Shelter. As long as low­ing, maybe some coffee and some soup. cost housing and the number of cheap Often shelters have strings attached, hotels dwindle, and mental patients 
like a mandatory church service or continue to be pushed out of state insti­redemptive lecture, or rules requiring tutions, and even as long as people that they stay sober or take showers. argue with their spouses and lose their This approach sees the homeless as an jobs, there will be a need for adequate emergency and some people are out to funding for shelters. change that attitude. So while Gene's life has changed 
Several shelters across the country dramatically, the services he depends are working to expand the services for on are changing to meet his needs. In the homeless. The Christian Science no way are the services adequate and Monitor reports about the new Federal even acceptable, and it's not enough for City Shelter in Washington D.C. which Congress to give funding. The goals of provides medical, mental health, and these services must continue to be ex­dental services and a bed and meal for amined. Looking into ways of providing the residents. Rather than seeing the a wider range of care is one place to homeless as an emergency, advocates start. for this approach see the homeless as Ken Kollman is a junior at Notre Dame people in need of comprehensive com-and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a dif­ference. Write to P .O.Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
P.O.BoxQ 
Industrialization did not solve all problems 
Dear Editor: 
Bruce Smith makes several accurate 
· observations concerning industrializa­tion in his March 5 letter. Smith states "The jobs produced by industrializa­tion were the means to escape from the 'golden days' when life was nasty, brutish, and short." For many who sought these jobs in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, particu­larly migrants from American and European rural areas, Smith's asser­tion is correct. Most of these people fled from the countryside because of changes in agriculture which threatened their very existence. Indus­trial jobs in urban America gave them a new lease on life. 
The fact remains, however, that while life before industrialization was no utopia for these workers, it surely was not one after that phenomenon created this opportunity. As Mr. Smith asserts, "People crowded into indus­trial cities because the life-sustaining wages, small as they may seem in our inflation-ridden times, were their first hope of survival." Along with over­crowding and low wages, urban indus­trial workers of this period experienced poor sanitation facilities and the spread of many then-incurable diseases. Al­though most of these conditions were alleviated over time, many urban workers would suffer and in some cases die becasue of them. Yet few can criticize these people for choosing life under these conditions over death. For most, however, that life was truly miserable. 
By no means am I condemning in­dustrialization. It proved to be a major beneficial development in this country's history, and over time dramatically raised the quality of life for most Americans. I "appreciate the difference between the 'less compl­icated' preindustrial ages and our own." Industrialization solved many "social miseries;" it did not solve them all, however, and in several cases created new ones. These conditiQPs of­ten were not permanent, but they did exist. All one needs to do is to read contemporary accounts of late nineteenth and early twentieth century urban America such as Jacob Riis' "How the Other Half Lives" (1890) to verify this. Industrialization deserves credit for the innumerable benefits it created, but this does not ·exempt it from criticism where criticism is due. 
Thomas F. Curran Off-Campus 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
tVHATA &EAK, ~VAGIW NCI.JR()H5 AK& 5ll?ETOIEI? LANI?SCAPE. G!?EET5 US, AN/J ~YEI), TJE/RJJENIJRJT­CRANIAL Cf)J/.S LAYHEAPW IC SPINE6 u.KJRN AWAY. 
IN Uf£/,£55 /JJSARRAY. 

Quote of the day 
"Who  rises  from  prayer  a  
better  man,  his  prayer  is  
answered."  

George Meredith 
(1828-1909) 

"The Ordeal ofRichard Fevere/" 
General Board

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ................................ Brian P. Murray Managing Editor .................................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Michael Whitton 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ........................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ........................ Melinda Chapleau News Editor ...................................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ........................................ Chris Murphy Projects Manager ............................... Mark McLaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor .................................... Michael Naughton Control/er ............................................... Tracy Schlndele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ............................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ............................. Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .................................................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ....................... Michael Shannon space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Accent 
~ b'
an a ternative to os y 
"~ "'-.../ 
T 
JOE BUCOLO tory. Ellerbee and Oandolf tell the filming and marketing of features senior staff the viewers what happened the movie. A short focus on the during the year and how it book's author, Margaret hursday night is by far the relates to our world today. The Mitchell, proved to be most most popular night for topics are usually unique and interesting. The show ended its television viewing. Audiences intriguing. The show even adds episode with clips from the love "Family Ties," "Knots Lan­another dimension to history's Academy Award Presentation ding," "Cheers," "The Colbys" well known events. where "Gone With The Wind" and the new "L.A. Law." "The received 10 such awards. Cosby Show" in the 8 p.m. One of the best examples of In addition to these facts, time slot is TV's most highly "Our World"'s true brilliance Ellerbee and Oandolf showed rated show. It's only natural, was seen on Feb. 19. The how the movie relates to our look back at our past, recog­Some "Cosby" viewers are then, that T.V.'s lowest ranked episode focused on the sum­world. They interviewed Olivia nize the mistakes and rejoice complaining about their show's show be opposite "Cosby." mer of 1939. The hosts dis­DeHaviland (Melanie Wilkes in in the triumphs. It sllows us recent lack of originality. This Such Is the case with ABC's cussed some of the main his­the movie) and followed some important news and interesting may cause those viewers to try "Our World;" however, "Our torical events of the time. Then of the other actors' careers to trivia. "Our World." Once they do, World" Is one of the best they told about the making of the present day. The hosts told The show is currently TV's they'll never go back. show's on television. the movie classic "Gone With of the millions of fans who lowest rated show; however, "Our World" is a truly out­
"Our World" is a weekly se­The Wind." The episode treated have seen the movie many, ABC has yet to cancel it. The standing show. It presents the ries starring Linda Ellerbee and viewers to old footage of many times. The show also fact that the show is low-rated viewers with an indepth look at Ray Oandolf. Both stars act as various screen tests for the presented some interesting does not mean that It doesn'.t various aspects of history. It anchor-people and guide the part of Scarlett O'Hara. It was memorabilia and discussed the have a following. "Our World" informs viewers about things of hour-long show. Ellerbee is interesting to see all the well upcoming sequel. has a very large audience; Bill which they may have no knowl­considered a reputable and known actresses who could This is just one of the many Cosby's is larger, thus the edge. In a society where intelligent woman. Gandolf Is have played the main character great "Our World" episodes. ratings difference between the people know more about Alexis the more humorous of the two, and how the movie would have The show is outstanding be­two shows. Colby than Ronald Reagan, but handles his job effectively. changed if someone besides cause it Informs the sometimes As viewers being to tune into "Our World" is a refreshing and Each week. the show focuses Vivien Leigh had received the Ignorant public of crucial his­"Our World," they see how exciting show. "Our World:" it's on a specific year in U.S. his-part. Then "Our World" showed torical facts. It allows us to much the show has to offer. about time. 
r 


-------------~---------------------------------­
Language sometimes a barrier abroad 
Y
es. Ya. Oul. 51. Before last week these words were to me only vocabulary words in a language class. It didn't seem as though real people would speak them any more than they would speak In ther­modynamic equations. While traveling In Europe last week. 
Lisa Young 
The London Bridge 
the greatest lesson my friends and I learned was what a bar­rier language can become. No longer were we just dealing with a British accent. We were Immersed In countries where our own knowledge of the lan­guage varied from minimal and not knowing more than three words, to passable "where" question formations took in­tense thought and answers of­ten came too fast to be of any use. 
It was an unusual feeling to listen to loudspeaker an­nouncements and hope that they were unimportant. It was scary to know the word for ·warning' but not be able to read the message below it. And It was maddening to have people mutter or yell at us and be unable to understand or respond. 
We came to realize how Im­portant those picture signs In airports and train stations are. We used a great deal of sign language. We bought transla­tion dictionaries and we always learned to say, "I don't speak German (or Italian, etc.)" before we even entered the country. 
And yet sometimes this wasn't enough. There were times when we simply did not understand, or could not con­vey what we were trying to say. The five of us will probably long remember the night we arrived In Italy. 
We arrived In Milan to a cold, rainy evening and dirty train station filled with signs we could not read. We wanted nothing more than a warm meal and a bed after five hours on the train. 
Armed with "Let's Go: Europe" we tried to determine how to get to the youth hostel. A good hour was spent figuring out the MM; Milan's subway sys­tem. Arriving at our stop, we knew we were close to the hos­tel. but that wasn't much help. We wandered the area laden with suitcases and overstuffed backpacks until we had elim­nated nearly every building nearby. Hunger overtook our desire to find lodging and we spotted a neon sign with the one Italian word we all knew: PIZZA. 
It must have been a humorous sight to those Inside to see five drenched Americans burst through the door. The heavy Italian woman who was both cook and proprietor as-the only one we didn't have 

trouble with was 'vi no.· 
·~s we were waiting we dis­covered that one man In the restaurant spoke a little En­glish. He Introduced himself as Adal and we learned that he was born In Egypt and was working in Milan. He asked about us and we tried to ex­plain In the most simplistic terms, about our studies and travels. He offered to help us find the hostel and asked to see our book. 
Our spaghetti was better than we hoped, and as we ate, Adal offered to let us stay at his home. We thankfully refused and he gave us directions making us promise to return If we couldn't find it. As we left. he asked If we would join him the next evening for dinner at the same restaurant. We agreed and set out again for the hostel. Unfortunately, Adal made the mistake that all stu­dents of a foreign language make, and mixed up the words for left and right, but we finally found our lodging for the night. 
Adal looked surprised the next night when we returned to the restaurant. He sat down and we asked If he was going to order with us. He .said no and then said something about his office. He got up and walked to the bar just then, and the five of us collaborated to figure out what he had meant. 
We tossed our various Inter­pretations ranging from logical to humerous. "He ate at the office before 

We often laughed at our In­ability to remember a word or the sign language necessary to describe something. But as we were about to leave to q~tch our train, our conversation hit a block that none of us could break. Adal Invited us to stay at his home again that night. We were touched by his generosity and a few of us were even willing to stay an extra day In Italy, but we couldn't understand him well enough to convince ourselves that It was entirely safe to stay. The only advantage to our lan­guage difference came as we argued amongst ourselves about whether or not to stay. We were fairly sure thatAdal could not un­derstand when we talked quietly and rapidly and debated the Issue before us. The most diffi­cult part of the evening was the last ten minutes, trying to ex­press our gratitude and explain to him the reasons we couldn't stay. 
As we left the restaurant. Adal motioned to follow him to his car. He opened his trunk and pre­sented us with gifts for our train ride: a bottle of champagne and five Pepsls. We thanked him several times, but as we walked away we were still unsure if he understood our appreciation. 
We walked to the train station quiet with thought and frustra­tion. Adal had touched us In a way that words couldn't have. The emotions of our new friendship had developed with­out the aid of witty conversation or shared experiences and had overcome one of the small ob­stacles that languages have built. 
Tuesday, March 24, 1987 -page 8 -9 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
sumed we were as hungry as we looked. She repeated some­thing to the effect that we could have spaghetti only, and not pizza because of the late hour. We managed to make her understand that that was fine and sat down and un­loaded our luggage. 
We randomly chose one of 
the three types of spaghetti hoping for Ragu, only more authentic. Our waitress spoke no English so the best we could do was point and try to pronounce the Italian words; coming here." "He can't eat because he's on his way to the office." "His office Is fasting this week so they won't allow him to eat." "His office Is going to buy us dinner." We didnt realize that the humor of the situation would not last and the frustration of the lack of com­munication would intensify. 

Upon his return to the table, we learned tht he spoke a bit of French, as did a few of my companions. Soon there were three languages flying about the table as phrases were translated from English to French to Italian and back again. Two and a half hours were spent on a conversation that would have taken twenty minutes In any single lan­guage. 

All My Children: Jesse got Into a life and death struggle over a gun with Otis. Jeremy warned Erica that he had a premonition that her associa­tion with Travis would be dan­gerous for her. As Travis kisses Erica at a rally, someone with a gun was aiming at them. Ross tried to reconcile with Ellen after Julie caught him kissing Natalie. Coming: Palmer gets a needed lesson In love. 
Another World: Donna recalled that the twins and a third person, possibly a man, was in the picture that Reginald showed her. Tony got a note from the real killer. Donna was upset when she saw pictures of John, Michael's brother. Scott was worried about Chery's closeness to Chad. Coming: Michael gets upsetting news. 
As The World Turns:Kim fretted over Susan's growing attachment to John. Frannie continued to try to adjust to the fact that Sabrina Is her half sister. Lily began to see Dusty In a new way. Lisa was unsure of how Earl really felt about her new public Image. Coming: Kim realizes she and Bob have new challenges to face with Sabrina. 
"The Bold and the Beautiful" will appear In this space next week. 
Capitol: Matt McCandless' life hung in the balance as Baxter made a new move. Kate panicked when questions were being asked about the way Leanne died. Trey fretted over his past mistakes with Kelly. (This is the last segment: the series has been cancelled. However, there is some indica­tion that It will be picked up either in syndication or else­where.) 
Dallas: Story line unavailable at press time. Stayed tuned next week. 
Days of Our Lives: Against Shane's advice, Kimberly decided to take the baby and move in with Paul to help Andrew adjust to her as his mother. Kimberly later told Roman of the strange appear­ances that have taken place since she left Shane. Roman later confronted Orpheus with a gun. Robin helped Mike who was upset over Maggie's strange Illness. Coming: Shane Is shocked at his discovery. 
Falcon Crest: Maggie realized she mighthaveto do something drastic to keep Angela from learning what she planned to do with the baby. Lance suspected Angela wasn't being completely candid about Peter. Coming: Kit's motives become clearer. 
General Hospital: Anna and Duke reconciled and she promised she'll never question him about the past again. Camellia secretly met with Mark and urged him to lnvestigatea murder at the State Pen. Pat proposed to Terry who said 
she'd have to walt until her 
singing career hd a chat)Ce to 
succeed. Coming: Tiffany Is 
unsure of Sean's new deal. 
Guiding Light: Rusty felt he 
had enough Information to act 
on his own. Josh worried that 
Reva might have signed her 
own death warrant. Chelsea 
learned why Paul tried to warn 
her about the people In the art 
scam. Alan fretted that he 
might have caused Philip to 
become the next victim. Com­
Ing: Vanessa's moves shake up 
Alan. 
Knots Landing: Mac began to 
feel trapped as Anne appeared 
ready to make demands. Val 
was determined to learn more 
about Jean. Abby decided to 
do something to help Olivia. 
Coming: Mac makes a decision. 
Loving: The D.A. pressed to 
arrest Steve and Trlsha for kil­
ling Nick. Tony wondered why 
Ava wanted him to return to 
medicine. If she really cared 
for him, she wouldn't want him 
to do anything that made him 
unhappy. Ava felt Tony hadn't 
yet gotten over Marla. Coming: 
Jenny has bad news for Trlsha. 
One Life to Live: Jamie realized he needed half a mil­lion dollars to get plastic sur­gery and a new Identity. He planned to get It by blackmail­Ing his grandmother with the secret formula he stole from the chemical company she had. VIckie returned from New York and told Clint she needed brain surgery Immediately. She warmed him she might die. Coming: Vickie's premonitions appeared to be coming true. 
Ryan's Hope: While Maeve was singing In the bar to celebrate St. Patrick's Day, Rick and Ryan were fighting In the kitchen. Melinda asked to see Dakota to say goodbye just In case something happened In the operating room. She later got an allergic reaction while undergoing surgery. Coming: John realizes he must make a commitment to Lizzie. 
Santa Barbara: Hayley told Sharon she'd been having nightmares since she was raped and has been unable to have sex with Ted. Gina planned to let a skunk loose at the wedding but she was stopped by Brick. She escaped In her car only to find the skunk alongside her. Coming: Tori must deal with her own nightmares of the rapist. 
The Young & The Restless: Cassie continued to have reservations about Nikki's plan to bring Victor and VIctoria to­gether. Crlckett's warnings to Phillip that he might lose Kay forever began taking effect. Matt was concerned about Nik­ki's Insistence on making Victor more aware of Cassie. Coming: Steven Is torn by conflicting emotions over Ashley. 
I 987, McNaught Syndicate 
-~­
Tuesday, March 24, 1987 -page 10

The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The Bookstore Basketball XVI captains' meeting will be held Wednesday, March 25 at 7 p.m. at the Library Auditorium. Schedules will be distributed and tournament announcements will be made at this time. For more in­formation contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Observer 
A Bookstore Basketball Scorekeeper's meeting will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. -The Observer 
WVFI-AM 64 sports returns to the air with a trivia· night on Speaking of Sports tonight at 10. Rudy Brandl and Frank Mastro will cover a wide range of sports, and prizes will be awarded. -The Observer 
The ND men's volleyball team will face Michigan Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in the ACC Pit. Admission is free. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will take place Thursday from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. A $5 fee is required for sign-up. For more information contact Barbara Tull (284-4078) or Mary Fisher (284-5065). -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold practice all this week at 4 p.m. at the Rockne Pool in preparation for possible upcoming tournaments. All members are encour­aged to attend. For more information contact Dave Patchin at 283-4502. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will hold practice today at 4:30 p.m. at Stepan field. Any new members welcome. Practices will be held at 4 p.m. on MWF and at 
4:30 on TT. For more information contact Kate at 283-2904. 
-The Observer 
The ND rowing club men's novice team will practice today at 3:30p.m. at the main circle -The Observer 
Off-season problems start for Mets 
Associated Press 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. ­The off-season problems the New York Mets hoped to leave behind continued to spill over into spring training Monday when Darryl Strawberry indi­cated he was undecided whe­ther to pay fines totaling $1 ,500 levied by Manager Davey Johnson. 
Strawberry was back in right field Monday for the Mets' game against Philadelpha, one day after having left camp to protest the fines. 
Strawberry, currently in separation proceedings with wife Lisa, missed Saturday's scheduled workout because of "personal reasons." Johnson docked him $500, and when Strawberry disputed the fine and said he would not practice Sunday, the manager told him "to please go home" and added a $1,000 fine. 
Later Sunday, Strawberry returned to camp and was in uniform for the Mets' game against Cincinnati, but did not play. 
Johnson, whose relationship with Strawberry has been strained since the 1986 World Series, said the matter would be resolved when the 25-year­old slugger paid the fines and was ready to work. 
''At least he took care of half of it," Johnson said Monday, re­ferring to Strawberry showing up on time. 
Strawberry said during the weekend he would pay the original $500 and intended to apologize to Johnson but was not given "the chance to ex­plain." Strawberry was partic­ularly upset, however, about being fined the additional $1,000. 
Strawberry did not comment on the situation prior to Mon­day's game, only saying he would meet with his agent, Richie Bry, later in the day. 
"I understand he has the right to file a grievance over the fine," Johnson said. "That's up to him." 
Strawberry, who is signed through next season and will make about $1.2 million this year, hit .259 with 27 home runs and 93 runs batted in during 1986. He has averaged .260 with 27 homers and 83 RBI during his four-year career, but often has been criticized for an ap­parent lack of hustle and men-
sorely needed. It was ironic how Gary McLain's story hit the headlines as the tourna­
Drugs 

continuedfrompage 16 
ment began. With too many yet didn't take anything be­lives being wrecked, it is time cause of the testing program. the NCAA took a stand. 
While there does seem to be Phelps put it best when he something wrong with a player said that athletes have to be having to prove he's innocent role models. Like it or not, a of taking drugs, drug testing is lot of kids look up to players. 
tal dedication. 
Johnson and Strawberry have been testi toward each other since Game 6 of the World 
Series, when Johnson removed Strawberry from the game while making a double-switch involving a pitcher. The Mets rallied to win 6-5 in 10 innings, but Strawberry was not in a celebrating mood after the vic­tory as he and Johnson ex­changed barbs. 
The weekend strife was the first off-the-field trouble for the World Series champions since spring training began. 
During the winter, Dwight Gooden, Ron Darling and Tim Teufel faced court appear­ances relating to fights with police, Strawberry's marital problems became public, Gary Carter was indirectly named in a vitamin-pill scheme and Gooden's former fiance was ar­rested at an airport, carrying an allegedly stolen gun while waiting to meet him. 
Johnson and General Manager Frank Cashen spoke to the team about putting aside those problems and con­centrating on repeating as World Series champions. 
Just drop by the Notre Dame lockerroom next season and watch the dozens of children massed outside waiting for autographs. As long as this kind of idolization continues, athletes face the burden of being someone worthy of idolization. Drugs simply aren't the way. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObllllfYer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277·7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·7009. 
Wordproceaalng 277-8131 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: AIRLINE TICKETS ON EAST AN· GELA BLVD. ON Y.l AT APPROX. 8:00 
A.M. PLEASE CALL 232·9835 OR 283· 2877 (LEAVE A MESSAGE). THANKSII 
LOST LOST LOST KEYS KEYS KEYS at Lyons B·Ball courts week of March 2 EPCOT CENTER key ring with 3 keys . . . please call 283·2564 or 283·2568 or 283·2563 ... THANX, Scott. 
FOUND: 3 keys on brass NO key ring. Found Fri 36 outside O'Shag. Call Karen x2639 to claim. 
FOUND WOMAN'S GOLD WATCH WATCH FOUND ON TRAIL AROUND ST.JOE'S LAKE. CALL STEVE, 1157. 
lost one 1920's gold and cultured pearl clip on earring on saturday on the side· walk by the grotto. please call annette 284·4372. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN BRACELET. IF FOUND CALL 2905 
································································ 
still haven't found my army green BANANA REPUBLIC SHOULDER BAG I I last saw it In the Freshman studio on the fourth floor of the Architeclure Build· ing. If you have any info. about this delln· quent bag, give Mike ·a call at 2098. Thanks .... 
LOST: Thurs., March 12 at Duke's, a ail· ver bracelet composed of a chain of little masks. It was my only christmas present that I liked, so please return to Megan x1242 
Found-shoes in NO Golf Course lot last Friday. Call 239·6767. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 255·3684288·0955 
two 4 bedroom hses for rent 87·88; $450· 500. 234·9364 
WANTED 
Ride needed to Chicago or Northwest suburbs on Friday, March 13 afternoon. Call Fran £4404 or Cindy £4229. 
WANTED: COMPETENT STUDENT WHO IS IN TO FILMING AND VIDEO, TO CLEAN AND SPLICE OLD 8 AND 16 MOVIE FILMS AND PUT ON VIDEO TAPE. GOOD PAY, PHONE: GINA MANION, 272·3097 
Ever heard of OKLAHOMA? Well, that's where I'm from and I need a ride home for spring break (like to Tulsa). I'm a gOOd deal ··I'll pay ALL GAS and DRIVER'S MEALS I Please call 2098 if for some rea· son you're headed that way . 
Riders Needed to MADISON. Leaving 3· 26 or 3·27; returning on 3·29 call Mike at 1612. 
Campus Representatives needed (Student organizations or individuals for marketing project work on your owntime, have fun, meet students and make $ Money $. Call Barbara at 1-800·592· 2121. 
Ride Wanted to Penn State For This Weekend ·3'27 -Call John 2076 
HELPIII I desperately need ride to Chicago for a reunion with high school friends. To leave Thurs. or Fri. Share usual. Please call Susan at 283-4021. Thanks I 
JUNIOR&SENIORSGRAD STUDENTS: MANAGE on-campus MARKETING pro· grams for Fortune 500 Companies. Ex­cellent BUSINESS opportunity. Call Campus Dimensions, Gene or Michelle, 1-800-592·2121. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANCIWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 
.......................}.~.~.:~?.?.~ ........................ Earn $2000-4000. Gain unbeatable busi­ness experience. Be the ND Sales & Mar­keting Director for Campus Connection, our nationally expanding, innovative ad· vertising guide. Currently at 42 universities-we'll provide complete train· ing, materials, and support. Call Chris Kelsey, Manager, at (805) 564-1260 for complete information. Ideal for amb~ious, personable freshman-ajunior. Start in 
~~-~!:........................................................ 
FOR SALE 

Is ~ True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Calf 1-312·742·1142 Ext. 7316 
Compact Disk Player for sale. Audiophile quality NAKAMICHI OMS·7. Program­mable. Remote. Lists for $1,295.00 but will sell for $600.00. Call evenings before 10 pm at277·5912 or days at 239·7133. 
6' TILED BAR, 4 STOOLS, EZ CHAIR 
Tom 234· 7325 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
1St SOURCE BANK Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing available for all US states. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
•• Spring Break Travel to New York? •• •• Buy Now & Save •• •• $90 RT nx to Newark •• •• Leave 3lt 2, Return 3'21 •• •• Call X3586 NOW " 
Thank you St. Jude for your help· 
Thank you St. Jude for your help· 
Thank you St Jude for your help· 
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS STARTING NOWI CALL 272-4135. 
IrS NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL 272-4135. 
Need GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at 2687. 
Classy Quotes "What I need is a really good bang job (haircut)," "She looks /Ike a dog In mid· drool," "Give me that quarter back, " "Arghhhhhhhh," 
Tess baby 
DRUIDS 
There is a meeting for all Druids and Druids-to-be to discuss the upcoming Spring Solstice Ceremony and other important m•tters. Refreshments are, as always, provided by the Archdruid. Call him for more information. If you have any questions, commune with Stonehenge and you will find the answers. 
Stonehenge lives . 

I'm a DRUID He's a DRUID She's a DRUID They're all DRUIDS 
Wouldn't you like to be a DRUID too? 
(You do realize why we're having all this wonderful springllke weather so early in the season, don't you?) 
This spring Is being brought to you by . 
THE NOTRE DAME DRUID SOCIETY 
Have a great spring break! 
SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL TUX RENTAL TUX RERNTAL TUX RENTAL TUX ANTAL TUX RENTAL TUX RENTAL HEY GUYS, HAVE YOU RENTED THAT TUX YET? If not go to GILBERTS, University Park Mall or Downtown THIS WEEKI Special price$36. SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL 
LONELY SAILOR NEEDS SOME MAIL CURRENTLY ON WORLD CRUISE. WILL CORRESPOND IMMEDIATELY: STEVE BARRAZA, VAW-112, F.P.O. SAN FRANCISCO 96601·6400 
Chernobyl and ~~er.~, 
"I can't.'' "Look.. .'' 
"OKAY." 
Grade A 

LARGEST selection of Cllfi'Monarch Notes in Michianal Bulf'SeiHtextbooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 
TONIGHT II Party with THE BOTTOM LINE at CHIPS II Be there IIIII 
LAST CHANCEl! to see Youth In Asia Duke's Bistro Thursday ? ·2 a.m. 
Demand Circus Lunchlll Demand it! 
"'"ENGINEER'S WEEK""' 
.....ENGINEER'S WEEK'.. .. 
.....ENGINEER'S WEEK..... 
B THERE OR B"2 
MARCH 30 ·APRIL 3 
••••• ENGINEER'S WEEK'.... VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY SIGNUPS · THIS WEEK -EG STUDENT CENTER COMPUTER MATCHUPS -FORMS IN CUSHING PIE EATING CONTEST ·(AREN'T YOU HUNGRY?) -NEXT WED 3:15 SIGN UP IN EG STUDENT CENTER 
PINEWOOD DERBY ·(REMEMBER THE BOY SCOUT DAYS?) ·NEXT THURS 7:30 PICK UP KITS IN EG STU· DENT CENTER OR CALL JOHN £3698 
OR CHRIS £1704 
Mike, 

Where would I be without you in my life? Thanks for the sunshine, the smiles, the understanding, and the love. You've been with me now quite a long, long time ...... And I feel fine. Love, K. 
WHO LOVES BRIAN O'FALLON? He's dying of curiosity. 
Patty and Aileen ... well yall did "show me a good time." I now beleive in NOll loved the hocky game (ouch), Love, Sex and the IRS, meeting all the band secllons and becoming a cleptoll The party was, well; awesome! Too bad only the prefered came. BETTER luck next time. Lastly, lm glad I came. Next time yall come down south (I'll provide the wea· fher). Thanks guys. Love ya. K·Bye. Jody. (watch for more fire). 
THE DAY APPROACHETH... The sarcastic Long Islander who is master of embarrassing other innocent humans will be celebrating his ENTRANCE FROM THE WOMB ... 
tommorrow (titter,titter) 
Welcome Spring Bash Ill 
at DUKE'S BISTRO (In the georgetown plaza off ol Cleveland rd) 
50 cent drafts 
2.50 pitchers 
1.25 wine coolers 
mualc by Lazy Boy l!nd the Swivel Rockera 
at DUKE'S BISTRO 
Welcome Spring Baah til 
Ellghten your hortzona with • mejor or aecond major In theology. Dlacuaa the poaalblllllea with E. Gorakl, C.S.C., room 340 O'Shaughneaay. 
Spook, I was taken to school DC 
Chris Weppner You're flying high I Con· gratulations on your pilot scholarship. Those of us still on the ground salute you. Your ROTC buddies 
JACK llost my pail. Can you help me lind a new one? JILL 
ANNA COSMO GAFFNEY WHAT DO THEY SAY ABOUT REAL WOMEN? MARCH ON DOWN TO FIND OUTI 
I. Nick Rossi, having been duly beaten In racquetball by Greg McCue, do hereby attest that I am a Dlrtbag. 
TOP 5 REASONS WHY G.M. BEAT N.R 
5. Demonic intervention 
4. Temporary cerebral palsy 
3. Small explosive in racquet handle 
2. Magnetic ball 
1. He's a SCUMBUTT Ill 
Laura, 
I have no idea what you are planning for this weekend, but please take ~ easy -you know how I'll react 
CLEVELANDERS: Need ride to Cleveland for break. Prefer to leave Friday afternoon. Contact Jim, 

----------------------~~~----~--------------------~------------------~--~--------~-----­
The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1987-page 11 
Irish oust MTSU, TCU on road to East Rutherford, N.J. 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -To ad­vance to New Jersey and the East Regional semifinals, Notre Dame had to get past Bam-Bam, Killer and The Gang. 
Bam-Bam was Middle Ten­nessee State's 6-7, 260-pound center Dwayne Rainey. But the Irish said bye-bye to Bam-Bam and the rest of the Raider wide bodies by handing them an 84­71 ticket back to Murfreesboro. 
Killer and The Gang were Texas Christian's head coach, Jim Killingsworth, and his squad. David Rivers killed the Horned Frogs hopes with a free throw with four seconds left to give the Irish a 58-57 win. 
The Irish left for Charlotte 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Privllte suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting Is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we offer you a special discount. 
~ 
New apartments being 
built through Spring '87 
~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
~ 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
• ~ 
Intercom entrances 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 
not knowing much about the Blue Raiders, which brought comparisons to Arkansas­Little Rock, which ousted Notre Dame in last year's Tournament. 
Season highs by Donald Royal (24 points) and Rivers 
(27) erased those unpleasant memories but not without reviving them for a brief mo­ment. 
Notre Dame watched an 11­point lead cut to two with 5: 59 left in the second half. Royal hit from the top of the key, but Bam-Bam answered with a jumper from 10. Rivers then followed with another jumper from the key, and Bam-Bam, Pebbles, Dino et al. were done. 
"Royal and Rivers each hit a key basket," said Blue Raider head coach Bruce 
\. 

Stewart, who had dealt with of their shots from the floor and scathing remarks from Louis­were 27-of-32 from the stripe in ville's Denny Crum throughout what Head Coach Digger the week. "They are great Phelps called "a perfect 

game." 
Against Killer and his gang, the Irish had to survive a big­ger scare. Trailing 49-42 with 
6:52 remainig, Notre Dame senior guard Scott Hicks took over with a determination not to see his career end with a loss to the Frogs. First he hit a three-pointer, his second of the season, and immediately fol­lowed with a driving layup. TCU's Carvin Holcombe fouled him and the Irish were within 
Donald Royal one. 
Hicks would hit .another three players who rise to the occa­as the Horned Frogs and Irish sion. Notre Dame did what it seesawed the rest of the way.takes to win." Mark Stevenson hit two free 
The Irish hit on 52.8 percent throws to knot the score at 57 
While Gary Voce (54) and the Irish were stopped by North that if he has two players on Carolina in the round of 16, Notre Dame did manage to pull off him, he should kick out the ball. a pair of victories in the NCAA Tournament. Dennis Corrigan "He knows we'll get it back details the wins above. to him if we're not open. They either have to play Jeff Lebo, Ranzino (Smith) or me outside, or try to stop him one-on-one. 
Attention NO and SMC Students 
----------------------It is tough to stop one-on-one." 
Item 1
I---------, 

Reid's heroics began late in
I SizeCustom embroidered Fighting Irish clothing. 

1 Colo-r-------1 the second half. The Irish had 
Polo-type shirt In green or white. $13.95 ·London Fog pullover V·neck sweater In green, 

Name 1 rallied from a 36-26 halftime
I Address I

white, or yellow. $18.95 deficit and cut the lead to four
I City, State I
-Satin jacket In white or sliver. $29.95 

I Zip Code._____ with eight minutes remaining. 
-To personalize with your name, add $1.50 

Phone 1 Reid scored on a lay up off a ·To place orders, call Topstitch and ask for I I Smith pass and followed a Joe Rhonda-277-4656, or fill out order blank and mall 
I Add $1.50 for name · 1 Wolf miss to put the lead up to 
with certified check or money order to Topstitch _________ I Add!'ll:sx ..I 61-53.
19819 Orchard St., South Bend, IN 46637. 1 Total,______ ·Allow 2·3 weeks for delivery. The Irish still weren't done, closing to 65-62. The Heels called a timeout and on their first possession afterward,

PIME MISSIONARIES live t e GOSPEL among t e 
Reid stuffed home a Dave Pop­
poor ard unchurched in the Third World. So 
son feed. After a Voce follow,that all may kmw of God's love. 
Reid scored again to maintain the five-point cushion . With 35 seconds left, Notre
Young men 18-35, 
Dame's Scott Hicks brought
interested in FREE 
the Irish off the canvas for a
BOOKLET about life as 
final try with a rebound score, 
a missionary priest 
but then Reid delivered the in PIME, fill out this 
knockout. Reid took the in­bounds pass, drove downcourt
ad and send it to: 
and threw down a thunder dunk PIME Vocation Dept. 
to propel the Heels into the 3731 West 62nd St. 
regional finals. As for Notre Dame, its
Chicago, Ill. 60629 
season ended with a 24-8 mark
(312) 767-0620 

-a record that surprised many, including Head Coach Digger Phelps. 
"Our team was made up of
~------------~----------Age______ 
overachievers this year," said
Address______________________________ 
Phelps. "We won 24 games, ended up in the Top 20 and in
Cit State Zi 
Carolina 
continued/rom page 16 
me," said Reid, when asked if he felt he was dominating in the second half. "I think it was really that the team came out in the second half. We realized what had happened to us in South Bend earlier this year (a 60-58 loss in which Reid scored 12 points). We were determined not to let that happen again. I know that we have a lot of great players on this team. I'm not relied on to score. I think that anybody could've gotten the ball and scored." 
Whereas Reid was reserved in his speech, teammate Kenny Smith, who broke Phil Ford's Tar Hell assist record with 12 in the game, was not. 
"I think that when J.R. gets the ball in certain positions, he knows what to do with it," said Smith. "That's really a great attribute -that he's not decisive. And when you see that, you make an extra effort 
APPhoto 

to get him the ball. He realizes with 54 seconds remaining. When Norman Anderson missed a last shot for the Frogs, Rivers broke out with the rebound and headed for the right sideline in front of the Notre Dame bench. There he was fouled by Jamie Dixon, ~ill­though the Frogs claimed Rivers stepped out first. 
Rivers sank the front end but missed the bonus shot. Larry Richards rebounded for the Frogs and threw an outlet towards Anderson at mjlcourt. But Hicks once again saved the Irish as he stepped in front of Anderson to incerpt the pass and send the Irish on to the Meadowlands. 
IRISH ITEMS -Against TCU, Rivers hit on 5-of-11 three-point attempts. 
a regional. These kids have nothing to be ashamed of. I've never had a group work as hard and make things happen in games. They almost made it happen again tonight. That was just a trait of ours this year -we never quit. 
"J.R. Reid just put on a great show tonight, in the second half especially when he hit his last 10 shots. He just plays with a lot of confidence for a fresh­man. We tried to play catch-up went it counted, but we just couldn't crack the points that 
J.R. was getting." 
Second Round Reeult Notre Dame 58, Tex.. Chrletlan 57 Notre Dame (58) 
M  FG-A  FT·A  R  F  p  
Royal  40  2-6  5-5  4  3  9  
Stevenson  39  4·8  0-0  5  1  8  
Voce  34  2-2  2-2  4  2  6  
Rivers  40  9·15  1-2  1  2  24  
Hicks  31  4-6  1-1  0  3  11  
Connor  7  0-3  0·0  0  2  0  
J. Jackson  3  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Paddock  6  0-0  0-0  2  0  0  
200 21-40  9-10  16  13  58  
FG  Pet.  •.525.  FT  Pet.  -.900.  Team  

rebounds -2. Turnovers ·9. 3-polnt goals ·Rivers 5, Hicks 2. Assists -10 (Hicks 3). Technieals -none. 
Tex.. Chrlatlen (57) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Richard 40 4·9 4-4 10 2 12 Anderson 28 4-5 Q-0228 Pappa 21 Q-1 0-0 1 1 0 Dixon 38 2-7 5·5 1 3 10 Holcombe 40 7-13 3·3 6 3 17 Loll 27 5·11 0·0 1 0 10 Minnis 60-00-0120 200 22-48 12-12 22 13 57 
FG Pet. -.478. FT Pet. ·1.000. Team rebounds ·b4. Turnovers -7. 3-polnt goal · Dixon. Assists -12 (Dixon 6). Technlcals · none. 
Halftime -Noire Dame 29, TCU 25. Officials -John Moreau, Luis Grillo, Stanley Rote. A -11,232. 
Regional Semifinal Reault North Caroline 74, Notre Dame 68 Notre Dame (88) 
M FG-A FT -A R F P Royal 36 7-12 5-7 10 4 19 Stevenson 34 7·14 0-0 4 1 14 Voce 36 3·5 2-2 6 3 8 Rivers 40 8·16 4·4 0 3 23 Hicks 38 2·9 0-0 5 2 4 Smith 1 0·0 0-0000 Connor 90-00·0010 J. Jackson 3 0-0 0-0000 Paddock 3 0-0 0-0000 200 27-56 11-13 25 14 68 
FG Pet. -.482. FT Pel. ·.846. Team rebounds -.3. Turnovers -11. 3-polnt goals -Rivers 3. Assists ·9 (Hicks 3). Technlcals -none. 
North Carolina (74) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Wolf 33 6-7 0-1 7 1 13 Popson 23 5-7 1-1 1 4 11 Reid 35 15·18 1·3 5 1 31 Lebo 382-53-4217 K. Smith 38 2-8 0-0034 Bucknell 14 2-3 0-0 1 3 4 
A. Smith 8 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
Williams 15 2-3 0·0 2 2 4 204 34·52 5-9 18 15 74 
FG Pet -.654. FT Pet. ·.558. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers ·10. 3·polnt goal • Wolf. Assists ·17 (K. Smith 12). Technleals -none. 
Halftime -North Carolina 36, Notre Dame 
26. Officials • John Clougherty, Lynn Shortnay. Ron Spiller. A ·19,552. 
,---~----~-~-~-----------~-----. 
1 
I 
The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1987-page 12 
First Round• Second Round Regional• Semifinals National Semifinals Regionala Second Round Firat Round· March 12-13 March 14-15 Champlonshl1p March 14-15 March 12-13 UNLV 1 1 GeorgetownUNLV Georgetown IIdaho St. 16: h6 BucknellUNLV Georgetown Georgia 8 8 Kentucky I Kansas St. Ohio St. IKansas St. 91 1 9 Ohio St.Final F~ourUNLV GeorgetownVirginia Salt Lake City Atlanta5 5 KansasWyoming. I Kansas IWyommg 12 I 112 HoustonWyoming Kansas UCLA 4 4 Clemson UCLA S.W. Mo. St. IC. Michigan 13 I 1 13 S.W. Mo. St. UNLV ProvidenceSeattle, Washington Louisville, Kentucky Oklahoma 6 WEST SOUTHEASTMarch 20 &22 6 ProvidenceMarch 19 & 21 I Oklahoma Providence ITulsa 11 1 11 UAB Oklahoma Providence Pitt 3 3 Illinois Pitt Austin Peay Marist 14 1 )14 Austin Peay Iowa Providence UTEP 7 Tucson, Ariz. Birmingham, Ala. 7 New Orleans I UTEP New Orleans IArizona 10 L 10 BYU Iowa Alabama Iowa 2 2 Alabama Iowa Alabama I Santa Clara 15 115N.C. A&T New Orleans, Louisiana New Orleans, Louisiana Indiana 1 1 N. CarolinaMarch 28 March 28Indiana N. Carolina I Fairfield 16 1 I 16 PennIndiana. N. CarolinaNew Orleans, Louisiana Auburn 8 8 Navy Auburn March 30 Michigan San Diego 91 1 9 Michigan Indiana N. Carolina Duke 5 Charlotte, N.C.Indianaoolis 5 Notre Dame 1 Duke Notre Dame Texas A&M12 l12Mid. Tenn. St. Duke Notre Dame Missouri 4 4 TCU Xavier TCU Xavier13 East Rutherford, 113 MarshallSyracuseCincinnati, Ohio Indiana New JerseySt. John's 6 MIDWEST EAST 6 FloridaMarch 20 & 22 March 19 & 21St. John's FloridaI I Wichita SL11J 111 N.C. St.DePaul Florida Depaul 3 3 Purdue DePaul Purdue La. Tech14 1 14 N'eastern LSU Syracuse Ga. Tech 7 Chicago iev'" Syracuse, N.Y. 7 W. VirginiaLSU W. Kentucky LSU 10 ~ 10 W. Kentucky LSU Syt ~cuse1€\~Temple 2 2 Syracuse Temple SyracuseI Southern15 1 ~... 115Ga. Southern  


------------------------~~--------~--------~-----------~-­
The Observer Tuesday, Mar.ch 24, 1987-page 13 • 
Irish wrestlers' hard luck continues in NCAA competition 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Head Coach Fran McCann described this year's Notre Dame wrestling season as a type of Murphy's Law syndrome, where..--·everything that could possibly go wrong did so. 
In that case, the "luck o' the Irish" at last weekend's NCAA National Tournament at Col­lege Park, Md., was only natu­ral. 
Sophomore 134-pounder Jerry Durso lost in the first round, 7-5, to Enzo Catullo of the University of North Carolina. Junior 158-pound Ron Wisniewski was also eliminated in the opening round, 7-3, by Scott Cook of Utah State. 
Notre Dame's biggest mis­fortune, however, was the fact that 167-pound sophomore Chris Geneser, who qualified for nationals by winning his weight classification at regionals, was unable to com­pete in nationals because of a knee injury. 
"That was a tough break for Chris. It was unfortunate be­cause four guys who ended up placing, Chris had beaten this year," said McCann. 
Geneser's injury was a recurrence of a freak infection on his knee that had sidelined him twice earlier in the year. Geneser rebounded from the second injury to win at regionals, but the infection recurred the week before na­tionals. 
"Infection set in, so he went into the hospital the Friday before nationals. He just got out on Thursday, so he wasn't able to compete," said McCann. 
The unlucky weekend at na­tionals was a fitting conclusion to a season in which the Irish saw more than their share of injuries and bad breaks. Despite having five 20-match winners <Durso, Wisniewski, Geneser, Andy Radenbaugh and Pat Boyd), the Irish had to limp their way through a 1-11 regular season in which only Wisniewski and Dave Helmer stayed in the starting lineup throughout the year without getting injured. 
"It wasn't a very productive year. We had such good hopes, and we had so many injuries and unpredictable things that it became a long season," said 
McCann.  "It wasn't  because  
the  kids  weren't  working  
hard."  

t)ICT) D 
u 
,1/, 'BisfwvJolin 'D'll.rcy 
1c.c;c
s,..'Ma~ ']ltdlJ'tUS( Jrr.u/ , .• , , 
%rch zr-29 

... 
ft.,~~;;;~; ST. GEORGE'S UNIVERSITY \~.SCHOOL OF ME~,~,S!~,,, 
" ~'c'!0~/ <.RENAI>A Nrw York Statr -ST. VINCt:NT Nrw Jersey
United Kingdom 

• 
Approved February 4, 1987 by I he New York State Education ()epartmrnt for rhe purpme of conducring a clinical clerkship program in New York teaching hospitals. 

• 
Sr. George\ received a similar approval in 1985 from rhe New Jrrsey Board of Medical baminrrs; this esrablishes Sr. George's as the only foreign medical school wirh imtruction in English thai has stare-approved campuses in both New York and New Jersey. 

• 
Over 700 srudenls have rransferred !o U.S. medical schools. Sr. George's has 

graduated over I,()()() physicians: They arc licensed in 39 states; They hold faculty positions in 20 U.S. medical schools-2511Jo have been Chief Residents in 119 U.S. hospitals (according to a 1986 survey). 

• 
St. George's is entering its second decade of medical education. In the first decade, we were cired by Thr Journal or the Amrrican Mrdical Association (January 1985) as ranking number one of all major foreign medical schools in the initial pass rate on the ECFMG exam. 

• 
Sr. George's is one of the few foreign medical schools whose students qualify for Liuaranteed Srudcnl Loans. Our srudents also qualify for the PLUS/ ALAS loans and, under cenain conditions. VA loans. Sr. George's grants a limited number of loans and scholarship~ to entering students. 


For informution St. Grorae's University St:hool or Medicine /184 pii!USI! mntact cIo The Foreign Medical School Services Corporation thl! Office of One East Main Street • Bay Shore, New York 11706 Admissions (5 161 665-8500 
~~~._.. ............ ..-.~~..._.~~~~~~~~ 
Iowa's Brad Penrith sticks out his tounge as he reverses a hold by Iowa State's Bill Kelly in the NCAA Wrestling Championships. Notre 
Perhaps the biggest wins in
Champs 
Friday's team tournament came from Kralicek.
continuedfrom page 16 
"I think the most consistent 
to claim the first national title girl of the year was Kristin," in a women's varsity sport in said Auriol. Kralic.ek came up Notre Dame history. 
Defending individual cham­pion Molly Sullivan finished third in the individual stand­ings behind Columbia's Katy Bilodeaux and Wisconsin's Isabelle Hamori on Saturday, but second-year Head Coach Yves Auriol was more pleased with the team championship. 
"My goal this year was to win with the team," said Auriol. "I was more relaxed on Saturday after the team won, but the in­dividual fencing was tough. 
"Katy (Bilodeaux) knew Molly would be off, and she Yves Auriol really went at her on Satur­day." with a big win over Wayne 

Bilodeaux beat Sullivan, 8-1, State's Loredana Ranza, and and eventually went on to claim once that happened, it was ap­the individual title on Satur­parent that the women had the day. inertia to win the tournament. 
"She fenced well when we For men's head coach Mike really needed it," Auriol said DeCicco, the women's title of Sullivan. "She beatKaty, 5-3, marked the end of a long build­on Friday, and that was a key ing process to establish the 
bout for the team." kind of women's team he had 
ND AVE APTS. 
Early Bird Special 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
§ Call 234-6647 
§ Protected by Pinkerton Secur-ity 
Agency 
~<Q>~..q.~<Q>..q.>Q~~
C 

already built with the men. 
"It started in '74 when Father (Edmund) Joyce came up and asked me if we were ready for a varsity women's program," said DeCicco. "I didn't think we were ready then -we had a team, yes-but we didn't have 
a team that was in league with our men. 
"He stood by us and gave us support financially. He did something that very few people give him credit for-he elevated women to varsity status on this campus long before Title IX ever came into vogue. Title IX forced a lot of schools to add women to varsity sports. 
"He did it because we had enrolled women, and he saw their role carrying over to the athletic field as well," said DeCicco. 
But for all this talk of build­ing, all four of the NCAA fen­cers-Janice Hynes, Anne Bar­reda, Sullivan and Kralicek ­will be returning next year. 
"We had more pressure this year than we will next year," said Auriol. "Bilodeaux's a senior, and a lot of other teams have people graduating. It looks like we'll have the same team, and we'll be better next year." 
It's a frightening thought. 
IRISH ITEMS -Molly Sul­livan was voted team captain for the 1987-88 season yester­day by her teammates ... Janice Hynes finished 18th in the individual competition with a 6-4 record. 


APPhoto 
Guard Keith Smart (23) and the Indiana Hoosiers have earned a spot in the Final Four, even though Head Coach Bob Knight 
does not feel the Hoosiers are yet a Related story appears at right. 
Fourth 
continuedfrom page 16 
finished fourth and fifth, respectively. Kevin Stouter­mire finished sixth in sabre, and Todd Griffee finished 12th in epee. 
Columbia tallied 86 points in the meet, 15 more than the Irish could manage, and eight more than the runner-up, Pennsylva­nia. Pennsylvania nipped Penn State by a point for the second­place finish. 
Powered by second and third-place finishes in sabre and a 1-2 sweep of the foil, Co­lumbia avenged last year's second-place finish to Notre Dame in last year's NCAAs. 
Head Coach Mike DeCicco had predicted Columbia as the team to beat before the tourn­ament, and the Lions obliged by being just that. 
"They had more people re­turning from last year than anybody, with the possible ex­ception of Penn," said DeCic­co. "So they had to be the odds­on favorite." 
All in all, however, the men's performance left DeCicco with "mixed feelings." Both Kovacs and Higgs-Coulthard expected to finish higher than they did, and a case of strep throat lim­ited epeeist Tim Vaughn's abil­ity. 
"In the foil, I was satisfied with the performance, but I was hoping to challenge Colum­bia in the weapon, and maybe come back with a trophy finish­ing first, second or third. So we lost a couple of points there that I thought we maybe should have had." 
It was the epee that knocked the Irish out of contention, as Vaughn had to come out of the infirmary to fence. Fearing drug testing, Vaughn tried to fight a developing case of strep throat with aspirin, and fenced to a 1-7 record. But DeCicco 
was particularly impressed 
with sophomore epee leader 
Todd Griffee, who managed a 
12th-place finish in the individ­
ual standings. 
"Todd gave us as much as he 
could as a first-year man, and 
if he brings back what he 
learned this year to next year, 
he'll give us that kind of per­
formance," he said. 
'great' basketball team. 
-

Tuesday, March 24, 1987-page 14 
Knight's Hoosiers keep scrapping 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI-Three weeks ago, Indiana coach Bob Knight told Steve Alford, Daryl Thomas and Todd Meier that he didn't want them to be his only recruited senior class to graduate without a Big Ten Conference basketball title. 
The Hoosiers went on to finish as conference co­champions with Purdue and, led by Alford and Thomas, they have gone on to give Knight his fourth Final Four team in 15 years at Indiana. 
The third-ranked Hoosiers beat Louisiana State 77-76 Sun­day on a rebound basket by Rick Calloway with seven seconds to play after Indiana had trailed by as many as 12 points in the second half. 
"When these seniors were freshmen, they missed going to the Final Four by a couple of plays," Knight said. "We lost to Virginia 50-48 and we had the lead and the ball with 1 : 20 to play. 
"It's been a heck of a road for them. Over three years, we got caught up in some things. 
They won 62 games in three years, but I didn't feel we were competitive nationally.'' 
The Hoosiers, 28-4, now will compete at New Orleans, meeting top-ranked Nevada­Las Vegas, 37-1, in the second semifinal game Saturday. This will be the first meeting be­tween Indiana and Nevada-Las Vegas. 
Knight still isn't convinced this group of Hoosiers is a great team. 
"They have found ways to win," Knight said. "They haven't gone out and beaten anyone big, but they have never given up." 
They·didn't give up Sunday when they trailed Louisiana State, 63-51, with 12:26 to play. The Hoosiers chipped away at the lead despite all-America guard Steve Alford scoring only two of his 20 points in the second half. 
"We hung together, we'd been through this before," Al­ford said of the comeback. "Two years ago, we might have gone in five different direc­tions. Not this year. Coach told us to hang in there and not try to get it all back at once." 
The Hoosiers trailed 75-66 with 5: 04 to play, then scored seven straight points to close within two with 3:06 to go on two free throws by Thomas. 
Neither team scored until Darryl Joe made the front end of a 1-and-1 for Louisiana State with 50 seconds left. Keith Smart answered with two free throws 10 seconds later and the Hoosiers were within one. 
Louisiana State freshman Fess Irvin, an 80 percent free throw shooter, missed a foul shot with 26 seconds left and Calloway's rebound basket of an air ball by Thomas sent the Hoosiers to New Orleans. 
"We knew those could have been the last minutes of our career," Alford said. "We reached down for something extra." 
Indiana is the first Big Ten team to advance to the Final Four since the Hoosiers won the title in 1981, Knight's second championship at In­diana. 
"This is an enjoyable team to coach," Knight said. "They like each other. " 

AQcbbisbop ROMERO 
l
lectuae seaies PROPHETIC POSSIBILITIES for the CHURCH IN CENTRAL AMERICA 


CESAR JEREZ SJ 
Rector, CATHOLIC UNIV. MANAGUA NICARAGUA 

8:oo PM TUIESDAY MARCH 24 
CENTER  for CONTINUING  EDUCATION  
$1Jl.ill1$t.1(ed  b~1  the  
lllSTITLIT£  1=01~  f'l=lSTOI~I=ll &SOCII=ll  lllllliSTI~Y  

and the 51-11=11-1££11 8151-101~5 • i£110£1~51-lle Con1=£1~£1lC£ 
~c:tcJlCll~-----------------------------------------Th-e-sd-ay_._M_arc-h-24_,1_98-7--p-ag-e-15
loom County 
TllKftr(; A MOf(!IL STIIN/7 
15 liN ae?C/5£ IN f'fllt.0­50f11CIIL f'f/RI1Y. 1//J(/S!NG IWP CONF/Nit'Kt !lNIMI/Lfj FOR 
THefi MILK IIN!l €665 15 NO 
... 01?. 

htVl& 1HIIN Kft/..ING met!?. Tl*:M. 5K/Nl
) 

-LAST WEEK ­
... WONDfRFUI.-, 50'1, Off}/­
•.•. IIAIRY · LE:GG£1) Alii Gtl(f11tNY AT LASr.t 
£/JROPEA.N 6/RLS.

11!/{P(D, NU11(/?0VS, U8tR4L, 
TI-llS VACATION IS (IJ/NG TO 
Sl.XY, BRA ·l£SS . ... 8[ GJ?EAT I !SE£1?.' GIRLS f ANP fURDFfAN 6/KLS! 11-Kl£.... 
II o 0 
~ / 
~ 
,-1/­
rt 

12:00 p.m.: Brown Bag Lunch, Rev. Cesar Jerez, S.J., rector of the Catholic Univer­!sity of Nicaragua, with staff and students, jCSC '1: 10 -12:55 p.m.: Art Noontalk "The :wisdom-Reilly Collection of Old Master 
nd 19th Century Drawings: The Italian 
mages," by Robert R. Coleman, ND, Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery :30-4:30p.m.: Meeting of Rev. Cesar 
~ 
~erez, S.J. with graduate students studying Latin American Affairs, CCE 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar "Orders of Magnitude and Biotechnology," by Prof. E.N. Lightfoot Jr., U.of Wisconsin Madis<.n, 356 Fitzpatrick 4:00p.m.: Radiation Laboratory Seminar "Kinetics and Mechanism of Free Radical Cyclisation," by Prof. A.L.J. Beckwith, Research School of Chemistry, Australian National University, Canberra, Confer­ence Theatre Radiation Laboratory 
4:00 p.m.: Sigma XI Annual Business 
Meeting, University Club :00 p.m.: Last Lecture Series, Dr. orothy Feigl, Acting VP and Dean of acuity, sponsored by SMC Student Gov­rnment, Gameroom HCC :30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar: 
'Genetic Aspects of Arteriosclerosis," by ngelo Scanu, M.D., Dept. of Medicine, iochemistry, and Molecular Biology, niversity of Chicago, 283 Galvin Life 
ciences Center 
:30 p.m.: ND Ethics and Foreign Policy ecture Theme: The Moral Nation: umanitarianism and U.S. Foreign olicy in the 1980's. Lecture £1 of 3 Iec­ures. "Central American Refugees: anctuary, Political Asylum and umanitarian Policy," by Doris Meis-
I. \
~ 
/ 

sner, senior associate of the Carnegie En­dowment for International Peace Spon­sors: Carmegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs and the Helen Kel­logg Institute, Room 100 CCE 
5: 15 p.m.: Eucharistic Liturgy on the An­niversary of the Death of Archbishop Os­car Romero, Sacred Heart Church, Rev. Robert S. Pelton, CSC, celebrant, all wel­come 
7:00 p.m.: Black Cultural Arts Festival Lecture "He Who Controls the Image Con­trols The Definition," by Bill Slack, artist, Library Auditorium 
7:30 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series: "Melvin and Howard," 1984, color, di­rected by Jonathan Demme, USA, Annen­berg Auditorium 
8:00 
p.m.: African Studies Program Film "South Africa: The White Laager," on Afrikaner nationalism, multi-purpose room, esc 8:00p.m.: IPSM Second Shageen Bishops' Leadership Conference Lecture "Prop­hetic Possibilities for the church m Central America," by Rev. Cesar Jerez, S.J., Rector, Catholic University of Nicaragua, CCE Auditorium, all welcome 

8:00 
p.m.: Concert Kenny Rogers with Ronme Milsap, $16.50 and $13.50 ACC 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Southern Fried Chicken Glazed Spare Ribs Rolled Cheese Omelets Baked Swiss Tomato Sandwich 

"Hey, everyone! Simmons here just uttered a discouraging word!" 
The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1 Kind of 
commiHee 6 Inquire 9 Phoenix source 
14 Mubarak's 
capital 15 Tiny 16 Persian now 17 FrighHul 
forecast 19 Watered silk 20 Before 21 Compares 23 Record 24 "-Kapital" 25 Maple genus 26 Banish 29 Clumsy craft 30 Armed guard 32 Hurt 35 Mountain 36 Nodular stone 39 Gloomy 40 Recline 41 Release 42 Deprive 44 Ripen 45 Aromatic herb 46 Turn old to 
new 48 White House 
nickname 49 Turning point 51 Govt. agent 53 Pointed tool 56 Bird of myth 57 Sp. lady 59 Mauna­60 Likeness 63 Frightful 
forecast 65 Cuisine lists 66 Comp. pt. 67 Demi-­68 Keats' works 69 Mil. rank 70 ChurciJ areas 
DOWN 1 Behaved 2 Daughter of 
Oceanus 3 Pelts 4 Mouths 5 Leafy 
vegetable 
01987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
3/24/87
All Rights Reserved 
6 Up 7 FrighHul 
forecast 8 Sharp 9 Goal 
1 0 Booth sign 11 FrighHul 

forecast 12 Register: var. 13 Encompassment 18 Taper part 22 Dry 27 Holiday drink 28 Wroth 29 Lofty quarters 31 Graf­32 Commercials 33 Barracks bed 34 FrighHul 3/24/87 
forecast 

35 Too badl 48 Funny one 54 More than 37 Gods: Lat. 49 Corrugate bad 38 Poetic 50 Romantic 55 Cripples
contraction youth 58 Sheep 
43 Gr. leHer 52 Painter Claude 61 Glue 45 Card game 53 At-for 62 Curve 47 Brayer words 64 Spigot 

Bonnie and Clyde  American Graffiti  
-Wed., Thurs.  -Friday, Saturday  
-7' 9:15' 11 :30  -7, 9:15, 11:30  
-$1.00  -$1.50  

Tuesday, March 24, 1987 -page 16

S~orts 
Irish fencers face nation's best at ACC 
Women win first-ever national title 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
It was the fulfillment of a 13­year-old promise and the cul­mination of years of building, but when the women's fencing team won the national champi­onship Friday at the ACC, there was an eerie feeling that the niche the team had carved for itself on the collegiate fencing map had only started to grow. 
Paced by the strong fencing of sophomore Kristin Kralicek and junior all-American Molly Sullivan, the women's fencing team went undefeated Friday, knocking off top-seeded Temple in the final meet, 9-3, 
see CHAMPS, page 13 
Men finish 
fourth place 
at final meet 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
In the end, the Irish men's fencing team was was a victim of what it had used on so many of its opponents this season ­power. 
Columbia claimed the men's fencing championship last Wednesday at the ACC, while Notre Dame -the undefeated defending national champions -finished fourth in the 31-team meet behind Pennsylvania and Penn State. 
Charles Higgs-Coulthard and Yehuda Kovacs, who finished second and third in the NCAA 

The Notre Dame women's fencing team won foil competition last year,the first-ever national championship in a wo­men's varsity sport at Notre Dame, while the 
see FOURTH, page 14 


For Phelps and ND, 86-87 is unforgettable 
As Indiana, UNLV, Syracuse and Providence advance to New Orleans, the Irish will be in South Bend. 
The only basketball to look forward to here is the up­coming Bookstore Basketball XVI. Yet, this year's Notre Dame squad truly deserves its coach's accolade. The Irish have "nothing to be ashamed of." 
Against North Carolina two years ago, the Irish were bounced after a turnover in the final seconds. Last year, the Trojans of Little Rock sent the Irish packing early. This year was different. The Irish advanced to the Sweet 16, something 48 other clubs failed to do. While they didn't beat the Tar Heels, the Irish confounded the "experts" by staying with the heavily-favored Heels. A great individual effort was this year's difference. 
Dennis Corrigan Sports Editor 

As seniors Scott Hicks and Donald Royal end their careers on a down note, they can look back on being part of the revitaling of Notre Dame basketball. While here, Hicks and Royal knew success. They advanced to the finals of the NIT thier freshman season and followed with three­straight NCAA bids. 
Digger Phelps put on a coaching exhibition largely un­noticed by those who nominate coach-of-the-year candi­dates. He took a team that began the season with a 17-point loss to the regional semifinals. A team that was 9-5 in the last week of January turned into a team that knocked off North Carolina, Duke and DePaul in February. Even Phelps expected only 18 wins at one stretch in the season. His overachievers proved him and the rest of the country wrong. 
While the Irish won't be in New Orleans, they can look back on a season that otherwise was exceptional. 
The big story off the court at the tournament this year was the drug-testing issue. While most coaches were for the testing, they were against the procedure. In Charlotte, where Notre Dame and North Carolina played thier first and second-round games, some Carolina players didn't get back to their hotel until well after midnight because of testing. 
The simple problem was dehydration. After two hours of hoops, the players were unable to to provide specimens. As Michigan's Garde Thompson put it after scoring 33 points in the Wolverines' victory over Navy, "it was the only thing I couldn't seem to fill up all night." 
Other problems came with what was being tested. The active ingredient in mist cold remedies shows up in the test which created numerous problems for players with 
Reid's 31 sparks Tar Heel victory; Irish campaign ends in round of 16 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN reeled off 10-straight points, Sports Editor each time breaking Irish rally attempts. When Reid got the EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ball in the low post it was time 
-North Carolina head coach to head back down the court. Dean Smith likes to rely on his "I think (Reid's) going to be seniors for leadership, but great," said Notre Dame's against Notre Dame in last Gary Voce, who had the unenvi­Thursday night's East able task of guarding the 6-9, Regional semifinal, a fresh­244-pound freshman sensation. man led the Tar Heels to a 74-68 "He's very good already. All win. good players know what they 
J .R. Reid scored a game and want to do and they do it so career-high 31 points for the well." Tar Heels. Down the stretch, Earlier this month, Coach Reid was unstoppable. He Smith had chastised his young scored 14 of Carolina's last 16 star for appearing on the cover points. At one point, Reid of Sports Illustrated. Smith said that was an honor reserved for seniors. But fol­lowing Reid's performance, he had high praise for the 18-year­old. 
"J.R. showed he's a man," said Smith. "He certainly scored some tough points. They weren't all easy. They were tough. Voce was all over him, but he somehow still managed to score." 
Maybe because of Smith's earlier scolding, Reid was very humble about his effort. 
"I don't know if it was just 
see CAROLINA, pag~ 11 


illness. TCU's Carvin Holcombe came down with tne flu, 
Dave Popson (35) clears out Notre Dame center regional of the NCAA Tournament last see DRUGS, page 10 
Gary Voce and goes up for two in North Thursday night. Dennis Corrigan has details Carolina's dumping of the Irish in the East above. 






