
rtly everything
/ACCENT: Glee Club entertains Partly sunny and mild today. High in the middle to upper 40s. A 30 percent chance of
/VIEWPOINT: Task force on alcohol 
light rain tonight. 

VOL• XXI, NO. 66 THURSDAY.DECEMBER10, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Summit ends 'on optimistic note,' no breakthrough 
Associated Press Gorbachev himself told is the reality that binds each of Reagan, in an interview with a working luncheon on 
Reagan at a dinner at the So­us as individual souls." columnists, noted Gorbachev Thursday. The White House 
WASHINGTON -President viet Embassy Wednesday Gorbachev, in. his toast as has said publicly he wanted to said Reagan would address tile Reagan and Soviet leader Mik­night, "In some areas we translated by his interpreter, pull troops out of Afghanistan. nation at 9 p.m. i:ST Thursday hail Gorbachev grappled with remain far apart," although he said, "Bombs and missiles can­Without revealing details of the from the Oval Office, just hours differences over Afghanistan said he felt "we have made not think ... Those devices talks, Reagan said the two after Gorbachev sums up the and· cutbacks in strategic nu­headway on a number of im­have neither souls nor con­sides have people "working on meetings at a Soviet Embassy clear arms Wednesday in a portant issues and this is cause science and so they are more that particular question right news conference. summit meeting that ended for optimism." dangerous than any madman.'' now as to when and how." Reagan and Gorbachev dis­"on a very optimistic note" but Earlier, at the conclusion of Asked to describe his mood cussed the Iran-Iraq war, the failed to produce any Reagan, in his toast at the the leaders' lone negotiating after the signing of an arms seven-year-old Soviet occupa­breakthroughs, U.S. officials dinner, spoke of "differences session of the day, a two-hour treaty Tuesday, Reagan said, tion of Afghanistan and said. that reach to the core values meeting, presidential spokes­"Well, I felt good. I think that prospects for cutting strategic 
One administration source, on which our political systems man Marlin Fitzwater said, yesterday was quite a day, nuclear arms, Fitzwater said. speaking privately, said it was are based." "This was a day of heavy lif-after years of debate and dis­"The president and the gen­unlikely there would be any "Even so we can make prog­ting." · cussion and walking away from eral secretary were very progress on withdrawal of So­ress," Reagan said, adding things without settlement. I pleased with the meeting this viet forces from Afghanistan; that "perhaps · in this Secretary of State George thought it was quite a day." morning. They left on a very but it was possible there could Christmas season we should Shultz told ABC News, "We see Reagan and Gorbachev are optimistic note . . . There's a be some movement "at the look at an even deeper and a little progress here and there, to wind up their discussions very good feeling on where we margins" on arms control. more enduring realism ... It but they are tough issues." with an Oval Office session and are going," Fitzwater said. 
Food fight Soviets g-ive finances face thumbs-up deferment on summit 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Associated Press Senior Staff Reporter MOSCOW -Soviets shed 
The Student Senate is waiting tears of joy and looked hope­for John Goldrick, vice presi­fully to a visit by President dent for residence life and Reagan next year as they spoke William Hickey, director of words of goodwill Wednesday food services, to explain why following the signing of the nu­the student body should pay the clear arms treaty by the two $1,400 in damages from a food superpowers. fight earlier this semester "There hasn't been any other before taking action on how to president who has gone so far pay the bill, according to Stu­to meet us," said a 55-year-old dent senator Michael Carrigan. man from Rostov in southern 
"So far they (Goldrick and Russia who identified himself Hickey> haven't been able to only as Nikolai. come to the senate and that's "We, two great powers, will why a final decision has not trade and live in friendship and been reached," he said. ,,,,..•.~~~;-: peace," he told !he Associat~d 
"We (the senate) want to '" tr,~ ~. ;·., ·• ·~,. ' Press as he wa1ted for a tram make sure we make the right · .... , •_. · .. ' , in Moscow's Kiev railroad sta­decision," Carrigan said about tion. the delay on a decision. At the Cheremushkinsky The senate rejected a plan Farmers Market in the south­proposed by the Hall Presi­ern part of the capital, Moscow, dents Council that would have other people interviewed at used Student Activities fees to random also spoke warmly of pay the bill, Carrigan said. The the United States. plan had the residence halls, Tatyana Loginovskikh, who
Short circuit 
the classes and student govern­was selling apples at the mar­ment paying for part of the bill. Electrical engineering majors Bill Schratz and Craig they were sparked to move outside by the excessive ket, burst into tears when she Waller overheated and decided to study circuitry out­warmth of their room. see FOOD, page 3 doors Wednesday. The current juniors claimed that see SUMMIT, page 4 
The Observer I Don Pan 



Malloy: U.S. must place high pr.iority on education 
Associated Press this world is to invest in educa­improved schooling in other na­per educational levels are He predicted the next presi­tion, particularly higher educa­tions, including Japan and going to be a threat to the det­dent and Congress also will put 
NEW YORK -The United tion with its res~arch capacity, Korea. riment of the system," Malloy a new stress on education. States will be like the British in order to stay ahead in sci­said. 
Empire--"celebrating the ence and technology in the "We are five percent of the He expressed hope that cor­"I think whatever party is 
past"--if American education 
delivery of services," he said world's population," he said. rections will be made. elected in the new presidentialdoes not improve, University of in an interview. 
"We are in a highly competi­"What I'm finding around election and the congressional, Notre Dame President Father 
"If we fall behind there, we tive international situation. We the country is that corporate we're going to find a reasser­Edward Malloy said Tuesday. will find ourselves like the have all experienced the pul­leadership in the business com­tion of the priority of educa­
· The nation's standing in the 
British Empire, rhetorically lback of industry and moving munny and higher education tion," he said. world and the cohesiveness of and romantically celebrating more to the service orientation. are forming coalitions to arguesociety are at risk if urban the past and maybe a little bit But you can only service so the case of the priority of edu­"Almost every state in the 
public schools are not of the present, but worried much if you don't have the cation in general and attempt union--everybody running for upgraded and higher education about the future." basics." to find remedies for the atro­governor--has a program to is not given higher priority, Malloy said the United States cious condition of the urban improve the quality of 
Malloy said. has the best educational sys­If students are not prepared public school systems. I think education. Education is seen as "The only way we're going tem in the world, but is well in grade school and high we're going to find some suc­the source of economic com­to be able to hold our own in threatened economically by school, "what we get in the up-cess." petitiveness, " he said. 

Thursday, December 10, 1987
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
HowardBeachtrialjurorswereurgedbytheprosecutor yesterday to convict four white teen-agers in the "wanton, callous, and brutal" death of a black man allegedly chased into the path of a car. Michael Griffith was "helplessly propelled down a tunnel, a chasm of death" by the four teen-age defendants on trial in state Supreme Court, spe­cial state prosecutor Charles J. Hynes said in his closing argument. The.jury is expected to get the case Thursday. -Associated Press 
Douglas Kmiec, professor of law, has received the· Distinguished Seryice Award from the U.S. Department of Justice. Kmiec received the award last Friday from Attorney General Edwin Meese during ceremonies in Washington. The award was presented to honor Kmiec for tr~ work he did during a year and a half leave of absence from the University. He worked as deputy assistant attor­ney general in the Office of Legal Counsel. He resigned that position last July. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Plannin~ for the Cystic Fibrosis spring concert will be the topic ofa meeting at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Any sophomore interested in working on the sophomore committee for JPW can pick up an application in the Office of Student Activities on the third floor of LaFortune. The deadline for applications has been ex­tended to Monday, Dec. 14 at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
The Marketing Club will sponsor a social event at 9 p.m. (or after the basketball game) at Chi-Chi's. The guest of honor will be Professor Wahlers who is leaving at the end of the semester. -The Observer 
Sophomore Nightclub Night begins at 8:30p.m. at Theodores. The show begins at 9:15 p.m., featuring three comedians and a full food and drink menu. -The Observer 
Students graduating in December 1988 who are interested in mterviewing during the spring semester at the Career and Placement Services Office for permanent, full-time positions are strongly encouraged to register at their earliest convenience. Failure to register prior to leaving for Christmas vacation may result in missed op­portunities to interview during the first two weeks of spring semester recruiting. -The Observer 
College Democrats of Notre Dame will hold a mandatory introductory meeting from 7:30p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. -The Observer 
Emaus, a community with the mentally handicapped, meet at Moreau Seminary on Sunday, Dec. 13 at 2 p.m. All will participate in the liturgy of the Mass followed by a coffee hour. -The Observer 
Paul Smoker, Director of the Institute for Conflict and Peace Research at the University of Lancaster in the United Kingdom, will speak at an liPS brown bag luncheon from noon to 1 p.m. in 131 Decio Hall. The topic will be "Accidental Nuclear War." -The Observer 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 

Design Editor ...... Rob "I'm Gone!" Luxem Viewpoint Layout ........ Dee Dee Wroblewski Design Assistant .. . ...... _ Mark McLaughlin Accent Copy Editor ....... Michelle Berninger Typesetters................. .. .......... Mike Buc Accent Layout. ..................... Heather Hypes .. ... . . .. .. .. ... ... .. ...... ... .. .. .. .. ... .. . Mark Ridgeway Typist .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .... Lynn Ewing News Editor......... . ..... Scott Bearby .................................................. Jenn Conlon Copy Editor......... .. .. Matt Crowley ND Day Editors ...................... Kathy Mckee Sports Copy Editor... .. .. Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ....... . .. .... Karin Rader Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Brian Broderick Photographer ................................. Don Pan 
Tile ~(USPS ~99 2...000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile Olllener is published by the students or the Univcnity of Notre o.me and Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($2.5 per semester) by writina Tile Olllener_, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, ladiana 46~56. 
Tile OMintr is a member of T'lle Mlodaled rn.. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 


'Moneylessness' disease strikes college students 
Money makes the world go 'round ... or so they say. 
But if that is the case, many of us on college campuses everywhere are contributing to the end of the world as we know it. 
Being broke is a shared experience among students, and it is particularly frustrating at this time of the year when the semester winds down and the Christmas season begins. 
Expenses seem to creep up on us unexpec­tedly and we're caught with our hands search­ing through empty pockets. 
People heard similar stories: 
"I have two dollars and eight cents to my name until next week. I've got a dead battery in my car that won't recharge, a stack of parking tickets that would choke a horse be­cause my car decided to die in the wrong parking lot, I owe more than ninety dollars to friendly creditors, my best friend's birthday is 
r--.--­a week before Christmas, not to mention gifts that I want to buy for family and friends, and a phone bill that would make AT&T proud of~.....­me. I have no way to get home because even if 1 do get my car fixed, I'll have no money for gas to get me there." 
Great. Stuck in South Bend for Christmas­alone. I'd rather get a lump of coal from Santa. 
That's Financial Hell, ·or moneylessness, the ~-.-...:_:.~~--=---=--------=.......,..--------=--1 disease. And you know it's really bad when you world-saving flavor such as, "If I only walk into the Financial Aid Office and they call money, I would ... " . you by your first name. It would be interesting to see just how many 
Dazed and confused, you walk around check-of them would actually buy their boss a flower, ing payphones and vending machines for ne-find a cure for cancer, send parents on cruises, glected quarters, dimes or nickels-anything. buy a Porsche 911 for their girlfriends and save 
You look around the floor in Bridget's, sober the whales if they ever did get their almighty of course, unless your friends have money, to dollar. find that ten dollar bill that fell when some My mom told me, "Honey, you'll never have drunk missed a pocket after buying a seventh money, honey. You spend it like there's no to­pitcher. morrow, it just goes right through your fingers, 
And the wierdest things go through your like sand." mind ... most of them illegal. It's true. There are two kinds of people: those 
"Maybe I could rob a bank. Maybe I could with money and those without money. The rea­just take it from the snack bar drawer at work son is because moneylessness is a disease. when nobody's looking. Or maybe I'll win the Money burns holes in our pockets to the point lottery." Yeah, that's it. of buying a pack of construction paper and 
Playing the lottery is probably more stupid crayons, just because. in this situation than robbing the bank or grab-Forget the car and the bills. Four dollars and bing a twenty from the cash register. Not that eighty-five cents wouldn't buy a new battery the two latter solutions are excusable or anyway. acceptable-they are not. This Christmas season, don't fret about 
They're irrational. Acts of desperation, money for sweaters, nightgowns, ties, perfume however, are much easier to understand than and talking Alf dolls for the cpildren in your actually setting out to collect vending machine life. quarters to pay for a lottery ticket that yields Show them you care with a homemade card a slimmer chance at bringing the big one home from your new crayons and construction paper than Christmas snow in Miami. and a big fat hug. 
But people do this. They stand in line with See, there's a light at the end of every tunnel-countless others who share their aspirations of just hope to God there isn't a toll booth at the landing a bundle. They begin sentences with end of this one. 
................................................................ II Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday 
Today_ is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
!! 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way ' 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 


LaFortune 
on pool tables tonight. • 
$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: A VALUABLE PROGRAM. A PERSONAL CHALLENGE. 
The NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship that's wonh as much as $25,000. And it offers you the opponunity to become a Navy officer and start asuccessful career. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost oftextbooks, instructional fees, and provides an allowance of$100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years ofcollege. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you'll become pan ofthe Navy adventure as acommissioned Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program• 
For more information call Lieutenant Commander Tim Wieand at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 


LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 
Thursday, December 10, 1987 The Observer page 3 
Deaver alcohol defense nixed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Michael Deaver's defense lawyers were told Wednesday they couldn't argue to jurors that the former presidential aide's alcoholism impaired his memory when he was questioned about his lob­bying business. 
U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, presiding at Deaver's perjury trial, said the defense had presented only hearsay evidence that Deaver suffered from alcoholism. 
The defense has contended that Deaver's memory was so clouded by alcoholism that he honestly couldn't recall key lobbying contacts when ques­tioned by a House subcommit­tee and a grand jury. 
"I'm not letting it go to the jury," Jackson said. "I'm taking that away." 
"The issue of alcoholism is not going to be injected into the arguments," Jackson said. 
Deaver's lawyers did not comment publicly on the deci­sion, which was a major blow to their case. There can be no appeal of the trial judge's ruling unless Deaver is con­victed. 
Several months ago, Jackson ruled that the defense could present testimony from medi­cal experts that Deaver suf­fered a memory impairment from his bouts with alcoholism. Prospective jurors were ques­tioned about whether they thought alcoholism was a dis­ease or a sign of personal weak­ness. 
In his opening statement to jurors, defense lawyer Herbert Miller Jr. said Deaver had a serious drinking problem but had heroically overcome his al­
coholism  after  joining  Al­ 
coholics Anonymous.  
In  an  excerpt  from  his  

memoir that was published in 
the current issue of Life Mag­azine, Deaver said he was dr~nking up to a quart of scotch a day during the final weeks of his White House service. 
The defense rested without calling any witnesses, includ­ing medical experts who would have testified about the effects of excessive alcohol use on memory. 
Deaver was hospitalized for alcoholism in June 1985 and No­vember 1986. 
During cross-examination, three former employees of his lobbying firm, testified that Deaver's erratic, moody be­havior and problems with memory were explained once they learned he was a recover­ing alcoholic. 
But Jackson ruled that tes­timony did not prove Deaver was an alcoholic. 
"That is hearsay ... self­serving declarations," Jackson said. 

We're looking for a Freshman 
Orientation Chairperson for next year. Applications are available at the Student Government Secretary's Office 
on the 2nd Floor of Lafortune. They must be returned to the Student Government Office between 8:30-4:30 by Friday, December 11. 
Thank you, _CS:.?j;j;&:f/~
fjo 
~t!~Q(lL~

~J~ ~~~?. ~~ 

BOWL 



$49.00 per room + tax 
* Closest Hotel to Cotton Bowl 
* 
Transportation Available to Game 

* 
Complimentary Parking 

* 
Indoor Heated Pool 

* 
Skyview Cafe & Lounge 


*Make your reservations now while rooms are still available 

(214) 421-1083 lOllS. Akard, Dallas, Texas 75215 l-800-492-9510 l-800-527-7606 
in Texas out of Texas 
No charges filed in ND auto mishap 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
No charges were filed Wednesday against the ad­ministrator whose car struck a student on Juniper Road Monday, said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
"Unless we develop new information, at this time we will not be pursuing charges against the driver," Johnson said. 
The student, Katherine Green, was still a patient at the University Health Cen­ter Wednesday, according to 



Food 
continued from page 1 
The student government funds would have come directly from the Student Activity fees. 
Carrigan said the HPC plan would have set "a poor prece­dent" if carried out. 
"Next year they'll be able to take the money (the fees) be­cause of damage to the goal posts or the snow ball fight." he added. "That's why we didn't want to use the Student Activity fee." 
The plan would also punish those students who did not take part in the food fight, he said. 
The senate has not ruled out payment through "indirect" means, Carrigan said. 
The methods include having 
a nurse there. Green was 
taken there Monday night 
after being released from St. 
Joseph Medical Center, Se­
curity said. She had suffered 
a concussion and a fractured 
ankle, Security said. 
The accident occurred 
Monday night at the traffic 
light in front of the Hesburgh 
Library. The student was 
crossing the street with the 
light when she was struck by 
the car, Security said Tues­
day. 
No one else was injured in 
the accident. Security said 
the accident was not alcohol­
related. 
the dining halls not serve desserts for a weekend or hold­ing a fundraiser, he said. 
Student Body Vice President Laurie Bink is discussing the dessert plan with Hickey, he said. 
Another proposal was for those caught throwing food to pay the bill, he noted, but those people have already paid a $100 fine. 
Goldrick did not set a date for when the bill had to be paid, Carrigan said, but "members of the senate are getting tired with this issue as well as the student body." 
The food fight occured in both dining halls following the Notre Dame-Michigan game. The in­cident prompted Hickey to say he would cancel special dinners for the rest of the semester. 

Michael's Famil} Restaurant 
is now under new management! 
IWe serve Breakfast, Lunch, & Dinner 
7 days a week LOTS OF SPECIALS 
Bring this ad aod get a free soda with purchase 2105 Western Ave. 2.32-8848 

FAMOUS MAKER REPLICA WATCHES 
Rolex Presidential Bay llate Igold color facr I 8!15.00 t'al'h Rolex Date Just -Stainlrss Strrl & Gold 1gold color facr I 8!15.00 t>ach Cartier Pantht'r \'t>llow gold band t•ase stylr 8125.011 t•ach Piaget Polo Supremt' -8125.00 t'ach Gucci 1Black lt>atht>r band on all modt>ls 1 -865.00 t•al·h 
Spt>cify: Fact' color I black or rt'd and grt'l.'n stript> I and 
Gold case shape: I round or square I Movado (black leather band. round gold case. black fact' I 8!15.00 t'ach 
-Bt'st quality reproduction. -Made in l'.S.A. -17 jt>wel Swiss Quartz movt'mt'nt. -Adjustable bands. -Glass crystals. -Correct !Hk color. -Perfect printing on fact's. -Authentic weight. 
PROMPT llELI\'ERY -If not satislit>d, your mont>y bal·k if , returnt>d in its original condition after tbrl.'t' days' inspt>ction from datt' of receipt. . ORUI':R !'lOW! Send ct>rtifit>d l'heck or money order plus 8:! shipping & handling. Specify st~·le and man's or lady's. 
P.A. ;\;ORDE;\i i:l4 Bradt'~' Strt•1•t Suih• I11:\ -I>t>pt. :1:1 I>annport. 1:\ 52!10:1 
Thursday, December 10, 1987 -page 7 
page 4 The Observer 
Crash kills Peru soccer team 
Associated Press 
LIMA, Peru -A navy plane carrying Peru's top soccer team crashed into the ocean off a popular Lima beach, and a crewman was believed to be the only survivor among 44 people aboard, navy officials said Wednesday. 
A spokesman said the sur­vivor pulled from the choppy waters was believed to be a pilot and was being treated at a military hospital. 
He said 12 bodies had been recovered since the plane crashed late Tuesday night 
Gun found 
Associated Press 
CAYUCOS, Calif.-Searchers found a gun Wednesday in the wreckage of a jetliner, and FBI officials said flight recordings showed someone entered the cockpit without authorization just before the crash that killed all 43 people aboard. 
Hampered by fog and wet ground, 40 searchers going through jet debris and body 
Summit 
continued from page 1 
recalled hearing a radio report about the signing of the treaty by Reagan and Mikhail Gor­bachev, the general secretary of the Soviet Communist Party. 
''I had grandiose impres­sions," said the 32-year-old mother of two. 
Asked about Reagan's 
speeches that were broadcast 
live Tuesday, Alexandra 
Rumantsev said: "They were 
all right, as I understand him." 
"He came across well-that after having trouble with its landing gear and circling the Lima airport for two hours. 
Aboard the twin-turboprop Fokker F-27, owned by the navy and chartered by the Alianza Lima professional soc­cer team, were 28 players, the team manager, eight team employees and seven crew members, the spokesman said. 
Other officials said the pas­sengers included Marcos Cal­deron, the team's internation­ally known coach. 
Only 16 passengers were identified as players in a later navy statement and the rela­
•


1n plane wreckage 
parts strewn over the 15-acre News reports have said that site found the gun around 11 David Burke, fired last month 
a.m. in two or three inches of by USAir, the owner of PSA,mud, FBI agent-in-charge may have carried a .44 Mag­Richard Bretzing said. num handgun aboard the plane 
"We have located a seeking revenge againstweapon," Bretzing told former boss Ray Thomson. 
reporters during a news confer­Both were among the victims ence at the site where Pacific of the crash. Southwest Airlines Flight 1771 crashed Monday on a flight "There was evidence there from Los Angeles to San Fran­was unauthorized entrance into cisco. the cockpit," said Bretzing. 
he too is striving for peace," said Rumantsev, 55, who was selling bread and buns at the r--~~~"!'"------------------------------­railroad station. 

Reagan, who has referred to the Soviet Union as an "evil empire," has in the past been characterized by the official Soviet press as a missile-toting cowboy who is stridently anti­Soviet. 
lUlL~ lLJW!HIITlC§ 

288-0500 
Printed T-Shirts 
Earn extra money without leaving the campus. For more information call 288-0500. 

tionship to the team of the others on the list, except for the manager, was not clear. A soc­cer team fields 11 players. 
The F -27, which can carry 50 passengers, was returning to the capital from a game in Pucallpa, a jungle city 355 miles northeast. Alianza had defeated Deportiva Pucallpa 1­0 earlier Tuesday to gain first place in Peru's soccer league. 
"None of the players stayed in Pucallpa. All of them were on the plane," club President Agustin Merino told a news conference Wednesday . 

Can you rock like this? 
Happy Birthday Woofit! 
Mishawaka -5908 Grape Road at 1-80 (Indian Ridge Plaza next to Fashion Bug) 

Viewpoint
Thursday, December 10, 1987 page 5 
Task force on alcohol needs your input 
In the Spring of this year Fr. Malloy appointed a task force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol. At that time he asked me to chair the group. Our final report is due on March 15 and we decided early on against an­nouncing our recommendations until after they have been presented to the President. Over the past month articles have appeared in the Observer and in other sources which have commented on our work. I proposed to the task force that I provide the community with an updated view of who we are and what we have been doing. Hopefully this will answer some of the questions and ad­dress some issues which have arisen. 
Patrick Utz 
guest column 
TheJ first question seems to be, who are we? The task force consists of: Five students (33%), four regular faculty, two librarians who also hold faculty rank, two rectors, one archivist, and myself, a counseling center director who also holds faculty rank. A Holy Cross seminarian and graduate stu­dent, serves as a consultant. As you can see, we are hardly an "administrative group." Students play a very signifi­cant role in the group, including devel­oping the questions that were used for our hall forums. 
Our first meeting, a planning session, took place last May. At that time we agreed to use the summer as a learning period. We developed a file of hundreds of articles in the area of alcohol uselabuse, alcoholism, treatment ap­proaches, policy issues, educational programming, and legal concerns. These materials have been circulated through the committee. We also have at our disposal all of the materials gath­ered by the committee which was chaired by Fr. Beauchamp in 1983-84. When we have completed our work these materials will be placed in the office of Alcohol and Drug Education. Thus, our first major goal was self­education. 
We have met weekly since the begin­ning of the Fall semester. These have · been typically one-hour meetings with one or more invited guests. Fr. Malloy attended one session to clarify thE: man­datl1· Staff from the Office of Residen­tial Life, Dr. Philip Facenda <University Counsel), .Michael Barnes (County Prosecutor), and Rex Rakow (Director of Security) presented their perspectives on these issues. The whole 
P.O. Box Q 
Free press for those that own one 
Dear Editor: 
Letters like the one from Thomas D. d'Andrea (Dec. 1) provide splendid promotion for Common Sense. This monthly publication would not be doing its job if it were unable to provoke the moss-backs in our community. Was it 
H.L. Mencken who said that the U.S. has a free press -for anyone who owns one? This would seem to be the attitude behind Mr. d'Andrea's protest against the Graduate Student Union for provid­ing Common Sense with some modest funding. 
I must say, it is great sport, watching Notre Dame's reactionaries protesting loudly that they do not want censorship on campus, yet trying to get just that the moment they lose control. Sure, Common Sense has published stuff cri-
Doonesbury 
tical of the Roman Catholic Church and 
Pope John Paul II; but ain't this a uni­
versity? Like the Stalinists whom they 
closely resemble, these right-wing Cat­
holics would punish and put to the torch 
anything that does not cravenly toe the 
party-line. 

While the blasphemy involved in 
making the institutional church, the Pope and even orthodoxy itself into ob­jects of worship, has a way of spoiling one's digestion for a few hours, it is unlikely to pose any real threat to this non-pontifical, very American univer­sity. Nevertheless, we should keep a watchful eye on our local Holy Office folk. I would like to revive the idea of Jlaving them register as agents of a foreign government (the Vatican), one 
hostile to U.S. constitutional values. 
Ann Pettifer Notre Dame Alumna 
Dec. 6, 1987 
RJimJNATUY, Ht liV/5 AcaPTW 
eARl-YANO 1113'Re SO HAPPYI 
HIUIJALE'5 JU5T50 !AllllMP.IaR-1 5HC. 
committee met with a group of rectors (21 of 24) and I met with the women rectors to further explore some of their concerns. A group of invited student leaders attended one session and helped plan the hall meetings. Eight open meetings provided a forum for about 400 students. Charles Lennon (Alumni Association) and Roger Mullins (Director of Human Resources) pre­sented some of the problems in their areas of responsibility. Finiilly, anum­ber of committee members met with leaders of the Northeast Community Association. Two staff counselors from the University Counseling Center staff presented materials on current re­search in this area. 
We are clearly a group with a variety of perspectives and opinions. We have learned a great deal over the past months. There has been no indication from "the administration" that a cer­tain policy direction should be taken. In fact, the administrators with whom we have met have explicitly refrained from sharing their views. Our charge is such that we do not feel any pressure to recommend policy change. This would be done only when and if we would conclude that such is warranted. 
At this point in time, we have made no decisions. Suggestions that you may have read to the contrary can be ig­nored. We have looked at such issues as education, legality, wellness, morality, ethics, policy, programming, and tradition. Now we must move on to determining how we will respond to the charges in the mandate. This will be no easy task. The months of January and February will be busy ones for us. We will determine the areas which we wish to address and the recommen­dations that we wish to make. we realize that ours will not be a solution north final work on the topic. We hope that we will be able to make a positive contribution to the community's response to the broad issue of whole health and the more specific issue of alcohol use. 
As indicated at the hall meetings, we are interested in the views of the mem­bers of the Notre Dame community. This can be done in two ways. Some of you will be asked to complete a survey at the beginning of the Spring semester. Please try to do so as quickly as possi­ble. I would also invite any of you to address comments to me at the Univer­sity Counseling Center. 

Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columnb appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.O. Box Q, Viewpoint De­partment, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
ABLY 5UP&RJOR. TO TH/3 5UPP055 
IAIW?
aTHE:R e;c.HOOL.S, OONT 50/ I 
YOU THINK? I 
\. 

Garry Trudeau 
7Ht... 
Quote of the Day 

"The test and the use of man's a education Is that he finds pleasure In the exercise of his mind." 
Jacques Barzun "The Mlsbehavloral Sciences" 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief. . . .. ............... Kevin Becker Business Manager ... . . .. . . . .. . . ..... Bnan Murray Managing Editor. . ....... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor... .. . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . ...... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager.... .. ..... Melinda Chapleau News Editor .. . . .............. Jim Ailey Production Manager..... . ............ Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor. . ..... Chris Murphy Projects Manager. . .. ............ Marll Mclaughlin
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Spons Editor...... . .... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager . . . . .. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor... ....... Michael Naughton Controller... .. ............. Tracy Schlndele
the administration of either institution. The News is reporllld as accurately and objectively as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Saint Mary"s Editor... ........ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager.. . .. Laura Stanton Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Photo Editor............. .. ............... Jim Carroll 
IS available to all members of the school community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 


Accent 
page 6 Thursday, December 10, 1987 
The ObservellPaul Oeschger 
The Glee Club sings at Sacred Heart Church during Tuesday evening mass. 
Glee Club • music and fraternity 
JAYME STAYER just a musical organization. We give it to a worthy charity. In 
I JUT\4 IIAPE IT WI-1ED 


an effort to maintain its image as a group for students, it will hold the popular Christmas concert in Stepan Center this year in order to accomodate more people. It is also having a special concert for faculty members and their families. Christmas season is an espe· dally hectic time for the Glee 
Club, and this season is no exception. In the span of 1.3 days in December, the Glee Club has 12 performing en­gagements and 7 rehearsals. 

Along with frequent appear­
"I can't say, my parents might ances in South Bend through· read this." out the year, the lee Club Angie Calabrese visits, Glee Club takes several Sophomore weekend tours to neighboring states. Last month they -traveled to the University of Michigan to perform with the 

Michigan Glee Club. These shorter weekend tours serve to 
finance longer trips the Glee Club takes each year. During spring break, they will be traveling to Buffalo, N.Y., and Boston, Mass. The Glee Club also tours Europe tri-annually. This past summer it took a whirlwind tour of seven European countries. 
Watching the Glee Club per­form, one is struck by its com­manding stage presence and sophisticated style. The mem­bers easily create an intimate rapport with their audiences while keeping their profes­sional poise. Maestro Kenneth Keisler of the South Bend Sym­phony sums up the essence of the Glee Club with, "This or­ganization has stimulated a fraternal bond while developing admirable musical skills and an appreciation for the performing arts." Encore, Glee Club, en­core! 
Bill Watterson 
What's on your Christmas list? 
Compiled by Cara Anthony and Kathy Ellis Photos by Zoltan 01)' 

"I don't know, that's a tough ques· 
tion. There's nothing I really 
want, except a dog." 
Valerie Zamora South Bend visitor 
"I would like the world to live In peace and to understand my un­usual sense of humor; or a potty· trained puppy. One of the two, It doesn't matter, they're both so Important to me right now." 
Michael Ury Sophomore 

"All I want Is a passing grade in management." 
Mike Aberle Sophomore 

"A boyfriend." 
• Lisa Totten Sophomore 


"''d like for Notre Dame to have a Final Four appearance in the NCAA, In which David Rivers would be the MVP." 
frank Huemmer Senior 
"I want the water tower to be painted gold, and a statue of Tim Brown holding the Heisman trophy put on top." 
Matt Beaton Freshman 
accent writer 

n 1915 12 Notre Dame stu­I dents organized a group d~voted to informal song. Since that time, the Notre Dame Glee Club has evolved into a 70-voice ensemble, famed for its demanding schedule, varied repertoire, and professional musicianship. 
Under the skilled direction of Carl Starn, the Glee Club presents an interesting array of musical styles. Any Glee Club concert usually includes a Gregorian chant, a polyphonic piece from the Renaissance, serious 20th century composi­tions, spirituals, and collegiate songs. 
Speaking about the sound of the Glee Club, Starn com­ments, "There is something very appealing about the pure sonority of male voices." Starn also expressed his excitement about the Glee Club's Invitation to the American Choral Direc­tors Association in Cleveland, Ohio this spring. This associa­tion consists of a group of ob­jective musical listeners which invites superior choruses to sing at its convention. The Glee Club was also invited to an equally prestigious conference in Kansas, The National Semi­nar of Intercollegiate Men's Choruses. Though many Darners have only heard the Glee Club sing the "Victory March" and other football songs, these accomplishments prove the true musical merit of the "Singing Irish." 
In addition to the musical aspect of the group, the Glee Club has a fraternal side. Glee Club president, Scott Liptak, says, "We are much more than 
Calvin and Hobbes 
have our own formal, SYS (Screw Your Section), and a hayride, as well as pizza parties and bowling games." As is typi· cal of the Glee Club, these types of social events Inevitably include some informal singing. One member, Rob Thompson, adds, "As a freshman, the so­cial aspect of the Glee Club made my transition from high school to college very easy. I automatically had 70 close 
friends." 
Perhaps because of the pre­alcohol policy era, the Glee Club has been fighting the image of being a bunch of rowdy fraternity members who can harmonize a few songs. Senior Gordon MacLauchlln responds to this misconcep­tion. "We are not a fraternity," he says. "We are professional; we are fraternal; and above all, we are musicians." The Glee Club's difficult repertoire sub­stantiates this claim. Some of the serious compo~ers whose music it sings this semester include Poulenc, Milhaud, Tal­lis, and Thompson. The mem­bers will also tackle the chorale to Beethoven's "Ninth Sym­phony" when they join forces with the Notre Dame Chorale, and South Bend Civic Opera and Orchestra. 
The Glee Club likes to think of itself as an organization dedicated to entertaining the student body. This attitude is reflected in its free campus concerts, carolling at women's dorms, various student govern­ment activities, such as the Hesburgh and Malloy picnics, and other university functions and liturgical celebrations. At many of Its concerts, the Glee Club will collect a donation and 



111 rrn 1-\f>.PPEDil-l. I 


l 
"''d be happy with anything but coal. I've been known to get a 
I 
little bit of coal In the past." Greg Andres Junior 
l 
i 
i 
/.1·/D 

Thursday, December 10, 1987 
Sports Briefs 
The novice crew will have an hnportant meeting tomorrow at 6 p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hal. All rowers and coxswains for next semester are expected to attend. Any questions, all Greg 289-0031. -The Observer 
The Big Macs won the co-ed volleyball tournament held at SMC. The Macs defeated K & Kin the semifinals and Surf's Up in the finals of the 31-teams tournament. 
-The Observer 
Broomball Tournament sign-ups will be held today in the SUB office, second floor LaFortune. The tourn­ament for the seven-player teams will be held during next semester's Winterfest. -The Observer 
The women's indoor soccer team willhaveagame at Turner's today. Meet 15 minutes before game time at the Library Circle. Questions call Karen or Kate at 2904. 
Kirk Gibson (23) of the Detroit Tigers was one of 
-The Observer 
the bigger names being tossed around by owners as a trade prospect as the winter baseball 

Tile......_Notrw o.me office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­ct.nt c.ntw, eccepts classified .tw.ti•IQ from 10 L"'-until 4 p.m., Monday ttvoug11 Frtday. n......._Saint u.ry'1s office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cen1.-, .ccepta claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. unlll3 p.m., Monday through Frtday. Deadline for nex1-day claalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claalfleda must
Classifieds be prwpalcl, elth.-In penon Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five charXhn per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 
TYPING 277-8131 or 237-1949 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT: 277-1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
FRIDAY, DEC. 11, IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER BEFORE BREAK. THE DEADLINE FOR CLASSIFIEDS FOR THAT ISSUE IS 3 PM THURSDAY, DEC. 10. 
' LOST/FOUND I 
to the person who TOOK THE WRONG COAT at SA BAA on WEDNESDAY: 11 has a name 1n the back and hunting gloves 1n the pccket Please call x3948. 
LOST: A TUXEDO JACKET (believe It or not) in lhe basement of Lalortune,by 
·the automatiC teller late SATURDAY PLEASE if you have 11. or if you saw someone take It or even 11 you just saw 11 CALL STEVE AT x-3068. I Will be very grateful. PLEASE CALL 
LOST· Small gold ant1que pin w1th blue atones, 1n the computer center (I think). If you found it. please call E1leen at 271­0952 Thanks 
LOSTIIIIIII--silver necklace with small p1nk. white and blue bird orna­ments lost somewhere on north quad (btwn Lew1s and 02)1ate Sat n11e ..1ffound please call x1 055 J1m. 
LOST AT FLANNER ALL-HALL: Canon Sure Shot Camara wtnama on bot1om. II found, Ptaaoa call Frank X1424. REWARDS$. 
FOR RENT 
Look1ng lor your own room next semes­ter? Need 1-3 room males lor house, $100·5125-tno plus utilities. Call 271­0758 
APARTMENT FOR SUBLET 1 or 2 female roommates needed for spnng se­mester call 288-2425 
2 BEDRM APT $250 e E 288· 7760 
1to3 male Housemates needed next se­mester SAFE nbhdl LOW rentl287-0753 
Turtle Creak Townhouse needs 1 mate roommate. S1 50-month e utilities. Fur­mshed Call Dan 271-0804. 
LOVELY LARGE FURNISHED HOME. 1034 ALLEN ST., FOR RENT. '88-'89 SCHOOL YEAR PREFER GRAD STU­DENTS, 5 STUDENTS MAX. 232·2436. 
WANTED· Roommate to share TURTLE CREEK APT.Ior second semester call Beth at 277 · 7065 
CAMPUSVIEW APT. FOR RENT SECOND SEMESTER. (FEMALE). IF INTERESTED CALL 283-3958 OR 271­
0952 
WISH TO SUBLEASE MY APARTMENT. LOCATED AT NOTRE DAME AVE APTS S125 MO. e UTILITIES. PLEASE CALL SAM AT 287 ·9770. 
NEED 1 HOUSEMATE FOR 2ND SEM CALL STEVE HARTLE STEVE GEORGI 289-9233 
OPENINGS AT NO APTS 145-MTH eUTILS CALL 234-8859 
WANTED 
I need 2 riders to Northeast Colorado lor Christmas Break Call Chris 1008 
NEED A RIDE TO HOUSTON OR DAL­LAS. OR ANYWHI!AE CLOSE BY OVER BREAK. CALL PATTI £2966. 
RIDERS NEEDED 121.1Qo87 Driving to Seattle v1a 1-80 or 1-90. Need riders lor all or part of the way. x3800 ask lor Chas. 
NEED RIDE TO NORTH NEW JERSEY FOR X-MAS BREAK. Can leave Friday the 18th. Willing to share expenses. Call Greg -1663. 
NEED CASH? I'll buy your baseball and football cards and other sports memoribilia. including programs, year· books, and photos. Call1701 lor the best money for your collectibles. 
WANTED IMMEDIATELY ACCOUNTING MAJOR TO SET UP BOOKS FOR SMALL BUSINESS. FOR MORE INFO: PLEASE CALL 287-2300 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS 
CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER WED. 
NIGHT 
WILL SHARE EXPENSES 
CALL CHRIS X1 145 
FOR SALE 
Christmas Trees for Dorm Rooms II Ser­gio's Sun God Christmas Village now of­fers artificial trees. Check out the 1 and 2 foot trees, pertect for dorm rooms. Get all your lights and ciecorations with a stu­dent discount, just show ID. Be sure to see the Notre Dame treell Sergio's Sun God Christmas Village 1919 South Mic· higan Street South Bend. IN 287-9283 
LEATHER BASKETBALLS-WILSON "JET"-NEVER USEDI! $25 -x3692 
COUCH FOR SALE COUCH FOR SALE , GOOD CONDITION CALL 2201 
ROSSIGNOL STS 1 BOcm with MARKER M40's $135 272-8813 
WATERBED--HEATED $75.00 CHRIS 234-7156 
NEW AMSTRAO WORD PROCESSOR WITH PRINTER & SERVICE CON· TRACT $400 CALL: 239-6470 (DAY) 277-8917 (NIGHT) 
1977 TOYOTA CELICA AUTO. GOOD CONDITION. GREAT COLLEGE CAR ASKING $1500 after 6 pm. 277-9042 
Classic 72VW Bug-New motor&battery· $600 or b-t:l.232-9709 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE: 40 COTTON BOWL TICK­ETS, TOGETHER ON 3D-YARD LINE. CALL RAY (814) 237·5204. 
Airplane Ticket to San Francisco: leaves 12116: call3301. 
COTTON BOWL ·50 yd. ln. 8 at $100 each. Call or LM for Greg at (713) 332· 8281. 
PERSONALS 
Concerned about the Job aaarch? Toledo Career Network can halpl Over 50 employere rapreaented. Tueaday, Oac. 29, 10 a.m. -3 p.m. Downtown Toledo, Hotel Solltel. See your place­ment ataff lor mora Information or call 419-243-8191. 
COUNT DOWN TO MEG LAKATOS' BIRTHDAYIIII 
Drum roll please 

This is it, MAUREEN KELLY, the final two running jokes from Ft. Lauderdale: 
2. Be merry -"Whal a rioll" 
1. Getting into Shooters uncarded, while TK cries, "Moooommm, tell this guy we can come into the bar!" 
XMAS GLAMOUR. Give that special guy tha beat gilt ol all -youraell -rln a glamour portrait. Plcturea by nation­ally publlahed modal photographer. Joe Ringer. 287-<1613. 
DOME-OPOLY 

Earn up to $5,000 thla achool year managing on-campua marketing pro­gram• lor top national companleo. Flexible houro. Muat be a Jr., ar., or grad. atudent. Call Kalla or Dee at 1-' 800.592-2121. 
RIGHT TO LIFE MASS RIGHT TO LIFE MASS Thurs. Dec. 10 
4:30 ALUMNI HALL 
Fr. Leveille, celebrant ALL WELCOME 
Season's Greetings to our favorite French Fries Hope you had a fun semesler. J&B 
Tom, Pangborn's sci-fi freak, I would really like to get to know yal -Fisher's Fav Fan 
SOPHOMORES 

SKI TRIP SIGN-UPS NOW 
CLASS OFFICE, STUDENT CENTER 
$25.00 DEPOSIT 
2 -4 P.M. TIL FRI. 11TH 
•••• DON'T MISS IT •••••• 
NEED RIDE to NEW ENGLAND AREA for x-mas (I live in VT, but if you can get me to MASS, CT, OR NH, I'd be happyll) Will share gas and expenses--I can leave whenever aller WED. call ROS 1284 
Colleen I hope you dance better than you write. I'd like to lind out. Think about it. Also, please add your comments, criticisms, and suggestions.. 
FRIDAY, DEC.11,1S THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER. THE DEADLINE FOR CLASSIFIED$ FOR THAT ISSUE IS THURSDAY, DEC. 10, AT 3 PM. 
JA'lZ CLASSES!!! 

......,......................................................... 
JAZZ CLASSES!!/ 

JA'lZ CLASSESIII SIGN UPS IN THE STUDENT GOVT. OFFICE DEC 10-11 TEACHER FROM JO ANN BRINES SCHOOL OF DANCE-ONLY 40 SPACES $9.00 FIRST MONTH 
CHRISTMAS BAZAAR CHRISTMAS BAZAAR SMC CHRISTMAS BAZAAR LEMANS LOBBY 10-4 MONDAY 1217-FRIDAY 12111 
.... SOPHOMORES ''" Looking lor excitement? Ski Trip to Boyne Mt. 
Jan 22-24 I $150 
signup this week 

flyers In the office 
Nightclub Night 

Thurs at Theodores 
doors open 8:30 
show at 9:15 

fun, food, entertainment 
Dinner at Barnaby& 
Thurs night at 6:30 
$4 all you can eat 
bring your friends 
Chrlatmaa Study Break 
Saturday, Dec 12 
Ubrary Lounge Bpm-9:30 
movies, hot cocoa & cookies 
RIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURGH FOR BREAK; CAN LEAVE ANYTIME THURS. OR FRI.:CALL SUSIE (£2531) OR LEAVE A MESSAGE AT £2537 
NEEDED: COTTON BOWL TIX Call Lynn, 271-0585 
Stanford Hall sends its congratulations to Heisman winner Tim Brown. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 22ND MALANCE I ill HAVE A GREAT DAY! LOVE ALWAYS, SHIP 
Althla-Biba 

Your fellow Pebble Beachers are going 
to miss you next semester! 
I want to be youllllll 
Please remember we are all victims of 
the party even in London I 
Safety before lunl· 
Come back to us soon !IIIII 
I need a ride to U of !-Champaign, II. lor break. Call Babs 3736 
NEED RIDE TO PURDUE CHORAL SHOW FRIDAY GREG 1562 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO FLORIDA FOR X-MAS BREAK? Will share ex­penses. Please call Kevin x1368. 
Top Ten Reasons to File an FAF: From the Financial Aid Office In the Admlnlatratlon Building 
10. To help your family figure out how to pay lor your education at Notre Dame 
9. To get financial resources so that you contribute to paying the bill 
8. To receive financial aid, you must prove financial need 
7. To have your Indiana Slate Grant renewed 
B. To gat a Perkins Loan 

5. To gat a Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL) 
4. To gat a campua job 

3. To gat your Notre Dame Scholar­ship-Grant renewed 
2. To afford to go 1o school 

1. To get financial aid lor lha 1988!89 academic year, YOU MUST FILE BY FEBRUARY 28, 19681 
KEN FISCHER 1111 For a blind date, you've got great eyes! II Thanx for a fun time at Lyons SYR. Renee 
CAMPUSVIEW APT. FOR RENT. SECOND SEMESTER. (FEMALE). IF INTERESTED CALL 283-3958 OR 271­0952 
For Safe Cheap: 2 Cotton Bowl Tickets -What a Bargain! Call Joe M. at 1213 
CHEERIO FRIENOLIESIII Remember that I still will crave mail (as well as its homonym. 
• A bottle of Bailey's Is sure 
to lind its way to you next semester. Pebble Beach casualness will forever remain with me. 
AEB 

Natasha Oachos-You really caught my eye when we met a couple weeks ago. Are you invoolved with anyone? AN IN­TRIGUED OBSERVER 
Valpc 
Merry X-Mas 
Enjoy some egg nog The Cat 

Red Rover I miss your 5:00a.m. humor. Send your­sell over. Thanks lor everything. Cit course, I'll ex­pect more, as soon as you can begin to make up for a certain 15 pages of mess: can you Imagine living without me? 
RIDER NEEDED TO COTTON BOWL: LEAVING FROM CHICAGO. DETAILS £1720 
SKI BOOTS 4 SALE MENS 8-9 CHRIS 272-8689 
IMAGINE.. To be regular lor the rest of YOUR lllel Michelle W.--CHEER UP! Love ya--Meg 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB BUS SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE. ANYONE INTERESTED IN RIDING THE BUS SHOULD CALL JOHN 2013 OR 2004 ASAP 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ALBANY OR POINTS ALONG THE WAY. LEAVING FRIDAY DECEMBER 18TH. CALL GINNY X1347. 
I need one more rider to DFW area. Leave early Saturday morning 12-19. Call Carolyn x3864. 
Danny boy 

I never knew Denny's could be so har­
rowing (or is that harrowed?). Now, I'm 
just wondering ... Is today Thursday or 
Wednesday if Monday was Sunday? 
To she who boldly goes where no woman 
has gone before: 
Your request shall be granted. Provide 
space 1 time coordinates. 
Fisher's loss is Pangborn's gain 
Hey Roomies Rm Terri Cathy Good Luck on finals and Merry Christmas !!! Love Renee 
Pea pcrage hot, Pea porage cold, Pea parage In a pet Nine days old 
.. Look Robin, a riddle 
DORA'S 201 Happy Birthday from your Goat from Atlanta f 
TBurke Though the time and place may change, it endures and stays the same 
Rider needed to Mpls;St. Paul for X-mas break call Renee x4053 
'Cause there is always something there to remind me. 
Reap the wild wind. 
TO MARC: HAVE FUN IN CALIFORNIA. I HOPE THAT YOU HAVE A BLAST AT SCHOOL. I'LL MISS YOU. YOU ARE A GREAT GUYII I DID NOT WANT YOU TO STAY HERE ANYWAYIIII (ha-ha, just kidding) GOOD LUCK NEXT SEMES­TER. LOVE, KATHY. 
To The Sexy Internist at GMA This Sum­mer, How about coming over for some macaroni and cheese, white zlnfadel, and "watch L.A. Law"? Can I take a rain check? Love, Your Man at Congressional Affairs 
WRITE-A-THON SUCCESS 370 LET­TERS WRITTEN Amnesty thanks every· one who wrote or sponsored a writer Spe­cial thanks to the CSC,Ted's,Fr.Finton,and all AI members 
To the residents of 244 Farley Hall: II your love for party teddy runs so deep. The price you must pay will not seem so steep. 
Hey Ya'ff, Merry Christmas! Hope every­one's planning on coming down to the Cotton Bowl. Prepare for a bash on New Year's Eve. We're going to have a great time. See you there and good luck on finals. David 
P.S. Mom, you and Dad are also invited to our wild bash. 
ROBBY SEDLACK ROBBY SEDLACK COME SPEND THE NIGHT INSIDE MY SUGAR WALLS!! 
MIKE "SQUIG" CONWAY YOU NEED LOVE 
BRIAN "STUOMUFFIN" O'GARA SOME THINGS ARE WORTH WAITING FOR MERRY CHRISTMAS TO THE HOT­TEST MAN ON CAMPUSII 
ANNETTE BARBERA--HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY TO THE EVIL DEMON FROM THE DIX OF 253 FAR· LEY fill 
Steve Thanx lor the edit (hatchet) jobsl Just Kidding Merry X-Mas 
Observer's Bast Writers 
MERRY CHRISTMAS 
Kimo, Juko, Trimmer, Lurch, Wafer, 
Shaggy. Woody, Buster Lets do it up In 
Dallas II AB and Palmer 
Found: one flash cube Will exchange lor a surprise! Call to negotiate. 
Clmmanln 
Here's your last personal of the year. 
What am I going to do over break? t 
won't get to see you lor three whole 
weeks!! Have a very Merry Christmasll 
Love, Jack AZ 
Ride needed back from Mlnneapclls after break. will share driving and expenses. Please call Rachael at 284-5447 
I need a rider to DALLAS or SAN AN· TONIO Leaving 12-18 Call Jon 2ooe (6·7) 
To Belly (LA) I really didn't mind. But thanks for the personal, II you like to be called La, You can call me ..... Ai. -Kevin 
RIDE NEEDED TO COTTON BOWL FROM CHICAGOSOUTH BEND AREA. CALL ANN AT 284-5335. 
CHRIS DONNELLY IS A HERO. But will the BLACK BALL fall anyway? 
Jell Mackey and co. With friends like you who needs enemies.Love the Vandals and the "Victims". 
Jim-
Only six more days to go­
Good luck, and 
Hang in there! 
Love, MK 
Ghengis Khan. Napoleon. Rocky Balboa, Prince Machiavelli William T. Sherman, Douglas MacArthur. Lee lacocca, Mao Tse Tung, Attila the Hon(ey), Terry Bradshaw. T. Boone Pickens. Guess what I have in common w11h lhese people? 
'ATTENTION' UPCOMING EVENTS· ... NEW YEAR ... NEW SEMESTER NEW MANI PAT COYNE TURNS 21 JAN 61 HAPPY B·DAYII -Molz 
HELPII NEED A RIDE FROM BUFFALO TOSOUTH BEND ON JAN 12 CALL HEIDI 4-4261 
D.J. ROMANO! Happy 2oth Birthday! It's our turn to treat. We love you, Liz, Heidi, & Mary 
HELP! I am looking for a ride to Mpi...St. Paul. I can leave Weds. after­noon. Please call Betsy at 4-4326 
Happy 11.! B-day Molly-Shannon. Dare we ask if you enjoyed your party Sat n1ght? Luv, Laura,He1di, & Meg 
Thanks for the Champagne, the flowers, and the KISSI Let's make another bet. 
To the guy on 4th floor NO lib. Mon Nita: How's the chemistry going or do you still want to trade for my accounting? £5466 
ROB WAL TEAS Good luck on exams. Can I have 1 boil-proof rabbit? Your Level 42 & typing companion (what a concepti!) 
A 3-MOOSE SALUTE to NATACHAIII HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Luv. Lisa. Laura & Molly 
MOLLY B-fYou're soo COUTHI We think you should jump your own bonesi-Fester & Mama 
r squared 
hope to SEE you soon. 
miss you. 
Love ME 
........~..................................................... 

page 8 The Observer 
Irish meet Prairie View A & M
. as Panthers face rebuilding· year 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 

When a team comes off a big win, it has the tendency to suf­fer a letdown in the next outing. When a team faces a relative no-name before meeting a Top 20 foe, it has the inclination to look past the weaker opponent. 
The Notre Dame basketball team avoided that first ten­dency in Tuesday night's 74-49 victory over Boston University after upsetting Louisville on Saturday. The Irish hope to bypass the second mistake tonight as they face Prairie View A&M in a. 7:30 game at the Joyce ACC. 
"I don't know anything about them until we hear a report on their game against SMU tonight," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps Tuesday after the win over Bos­ton. "We'll know more then. But I do know they've got some good athletes, and they're a Division I school." 
Leading the way for the Pan­thers this winter will be for­wards Reginald Jones and Marc Horne, who are each averaging nearly 15 points per outing. Jones is the only return-
Falcons' Hennings wins Outland 
Associated Press football in junior high to be one Air Force. Robinson's 
of the best, and I've achieved postgraduate commitment was 
NEW YORK -Chad Hen­one of my goals," the 6-foot-6, cut from five to two years of nings, who arrived at the Air 260-pound senior defensive active service. Force Academy as a 215-pound tackle from Elberon, Iowa, tight end and built himself into said. "I do realize that I have a the strongest and heaviest Hennings' next goal is to fol­commitment to my govern-
player in the academy's his­low Naval Academy running ment, and I fully intend to tory, won the Outland Trophy back Napoleon McCallum and serve that commitment," Hen-on Wednesday as the nation's basketball star David Robin­nings said, "but I'm also top interior lineman. son into the professional ranks, 
looking into any possibility that 
------------·-­

mg starter on a squad which comes to Notre Dame 0-3 after losses to the likes of Texas Col­lege, Montana State and South­ern Methodist. With the addi­tion of several newcomers, the 1987-88 season is being billed as a rebuilding campaign for Prairie View A&M. 
Not that last season was much of a success-the Pan­thers struggled to a 6-22 mark last winter. 
One might then ask why the heck the Irish are playing these guys. 
"The President of Prairie View A&M is on the Board of Trustees at Notre Dame," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "Pearcy Pierre is the gentleman's name. He and Fr. Hesburgh have been close friends for years. 
"As we have done in the past," continued Phelps, "we play the people we think we should play-the teams like Louisville, Kentucky, Kansas, North Carolina and Duke." 
The Panthers have added a pair of talented big men to their effort in the form of freshman centers Steve Stevenson (6-10) and Jeffrey Junigan (6-7). Both should help bang the boards against a taller and more ex­perienced Notre Dame frontcourt. Stevenson is a prod­uct of Milwaukee, Wise. while Junigan hails from nearby Gary, Ind. 
Directing the Prairie View A&M attack is 6-1 freshman point guard Leonard Gant. Rounding out the starting five for the Panthers along with Jones, Horne, Stevenson and Gant is 5-10 senior guard Lloyd Lamb. 
"We have brought in some talented freshmen,'' said sixth­year Panther head coach Jim Duplantier, "but balancing that is the fact we lost four starters. We have improved ourselves significantly, though, and we have more depth than we have had in the past." 
On Tuesday night as the Irish easily handled Boston, South­ern Methodist held off Prairie View A&M, 91~75, in Dallas. Four Panther players scored in double digits, however, led by guard Michael Ervin who came off the bench to pour in 22 points. Stevenson chipped in 11 while pulling down 12 rebounds. 
Thursday, December 10, 1987 
The Observer page 9 
Gibson, pitching coveted ~at pro baseball meetings 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Baseball moved forward on expansion Wednes­day while Kirk Gibson, Bob Welch and Phil Bradley 
dominated trade talk  on  the  
final  day  of  the  winter  
meetings.  

After all26 owners met, Com­missioner Peter Ueberroth an­nounced that the American and National League expansion committees had merged. 
"Both committees felt there was enough interest and the timing was now to discuss this whole subject and come up with something that's more forma­tive than there has been in the past," AL president Dr. Bobby Brown said. 
This is the farthest baseball has advanced on the subject since Toronto and Seattle were added in 1977. 
Ueberroth cautioned, however, that expansion was not imminent. He said baseball first had to resolve its labor and television contracts in Decem­ber 1989, making any new franchises unlikely until the early 1990s at the soonest. 
Several teams faced the prospect of leaving the meetings without making any moves. There were five trades involving 11 major league players through Tuesday. 

The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Editors Typists 
for next semester 
For further Information contact Jim Winkler at The Observer (239-5303) 

The Observer I File Photo 

The Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams nearly two weeks over Christmas Break. Scott will be practicing and competing In Arizona for Brutacao has a preview of the teams' plans below. 
Swim teams to face ASU, SMU 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
During Christmas vacation, the men's and women's varsity swimming teams will keep themselves very busy as they will spend the bulk of their time in Arizona, competing and practicing there for almost two weeks. 
The team is scheduled to compete in a four-school meet on January 6 held at Arizona State University. 
The men (2-2) and the women (3-1) will be competing against perennial powerhouses Arizona State and Southern Methodist, as well as a team from British Columbia. 
However, the team plans to be in Arizona from Dec. 28 until January 10, practicing. 
"We're excited to go to 
Arizona like this," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "We're 
approaching  a  national  
schedule.  
"Both  Arizona State  and  

SMU are national powers. As we become more ambitious in our future schedules, it is im­portant to get in the water with some nationally competitive teams now," said Welsh. 
Welsh, however, will be the first to admit that the team has more plans than just winning a swim meet. 
"A meet like this is very low­key. It's not the main event," said Welsh. "We're excited about the whole idea of going to Arizona." 
The whole idea consists of practicing hard in addition to swimming a meet. According to Welsh, they plan to stay in Arizona and practice because they will be able to take advan­tage of time without swimmers having to go to classes. The dorms will be closed at Notre Dame, so they won't be able to practice here, and because Arizona will be an entirely new atmosphere, getting away should be good for the swim­mers. 
The Irish squads recently played host to the National Catholic Championships, con­sisting of quality Catholic swim teams throughout the nation. The Championships, held last weekend, saw both Irish teams finish second. 
The competition featured 11 University records broken by the men's team. The astound­ing fact about this is that there were only 18 events in the meet, something that has to make Welsh very pleased. 


Romp 
continued from page 12 
•Notre 
Dame scored 23 first­half points off the fast break, a weapon normally used to per­fection by Oakland. 

•The 
Irish shot an amazing .612 from the field compared to Oakland's .339. 


Notre Dame jumped out to a 12-5 lead early in the first half, utilizing an aggressive 2-3 zone and full-court pressure after each score. After a Debbie Delie jumper cut the lead to 12­7 with 15: 39 to play, the Irish went to the fast break. 
Notre Dame scored 12 straight points, including six from Toney and four from Bunek, to take command at 24­
9. Oakland employed a full­court press and managed to stay close for awhile, pulling back within 15 at 36-21 on a Delie jumper. Then, Toney and Bunek went to work again. 
Both forwards scored seven points during a 16-point Irish run to increase the lead to 52-21. During that span, the Irish guards consistently broke the 
JAZZ CLASSES!! 


sign ups December 1 1-12 in Student Government Office 
'----------$9 1st month_________, 
full-court pressure with sharp, zipping passes to Toney and Bunek for easy baskets. The teams traded baskets for the halftime score of 56-25. 
"Our goal all season has been to play up-tempo," McGraw said. "Our press made it up­tempo, and our press helped us get our break going. We like it when people press us. We got a lot of easy baskets off the break." 
Pioneer coach Bob Taylor was surprised at the aggres­
sive  style  of  play  from  the  
Irish.  
"They  came  at  us  pretty  

good," Taylor said. "They got it rolling, and we couldn't stop them. Their guards are better then we thought. They did a good job against the press. Everything that could go wrong did go wrong." 
The Irish opened the second half with a 14-2 run to kill any remote chance of a Pioneer comeback. 

PLAN NOW FOR NEXT SUMMER GENERAL INFORMATION MEETING 1bunday, December 10, 1987 6:30p.m. 1015 O'Shaughnessy Unlyeralty of Notre Dune Foreign Study Programs ALL ARE WELCOME  


----~­
Thursday, December 10, 1987 The Observer page 11 
Campus 
. 

12:00-1:00 p.m.: Lecture by Paul Smoker of University of Lancaster, U.K., "Accidental Nuclear War," sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies, 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
9:15 p.m.: Sophomore Nightclub Night. Three comedians will perform. 

Theodores. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Roast Turkey Breast French Bread Pizza Egg Rolls w/Assorted Sauces Garden Croissant 
Saint Mary's Baked Chicken Breasts w!Supreme Sauce Carved Roast Beef Shrimp Egg Rolls 
~critne• i.Sh.meni 
d~p~:""'ed as a homicide In Detroil triggered an lnve"lgatlon 
into the inequities and injustices being committed in the courts through­
out the state of Michigan. 
Records showed similar crimes did not receive similar punish­ment. And proved punishment rested more on a judge's philosophy than on the crime committed. 
Within days after the publication of a story that documented this information, the Michigan Supreme Court made some changes. Changes that wouldn't have occurred if a few reporters at a Detroit newspaper hadn't been looking for a story. 
It's an example of how individual rights can be protected when the public is kept informed. It's an example of how a free press works in a free society. And what could go on without it. 
To get printed information on the role of a free press and how it protects your rights, or to discuss any free press issue, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
Comics 
Bloom County 
POFrrNO'I He 5H()(I/.Il'V6 
I~ ~A'Y TrJt.PM&H6 
Hf/f(T. WOV6CF... HOfl66-1H05e. 
PO/X£. 
I
I 
He'5 liN WHIITt'£~6 INI?/VIP(JAt. ... 15 H61HIIT NOTA I I?ON'T 
~&OI?Y. KNOW .'~'1'. .. 
/ 
ACROSS 1 -cum laude 6 Movie canine 
10 Russ. ruler 14 Skedaddle 15 Monogram 
part: abbr. 16 Engage 17 Tour of duty 18 Wife of Boaz 19 Feed the kitty 20 Photo taker 22 Evened 24 Savolr-falre 26 Following 27 Dickens' Tim 31 Grow molars 35 Hearty 36 Foolish 38 Tie 39 Gr. peak 40 Certain 
consonants 41 Inhabitant: suff. 42 Milan money 
44  - the land  
45  After prank  or  
team  
46  Facial feature  
48  "Teach  me  to  
feel  - woe"  
(Pope)  

50 Over and done 52 Irritated 53 Loving one 57 Mex. Indian 61 Partial: pref. 62 Heb, month 64 Palate 
pendant 65 Church corner 66 Lamb 67 lsr. statesman 68 "Please ­
Eat the 

Daisies" 69 Wild cat 70 Slaves of yore 
DOWN 1 Joplin, Mo., coli. 2 Court 
minutes 3 Forbidding 4 "No, No -" 

WHA rREAlLY GOES ON 

~ 

SUB presents: 

..HilARIOUS ADVENlURE COMEDY" 
loll-UKO.•.. An-
Berke Breathed 
... AN 6NVII?ONM6NT!It.15T Nf/TVK6·1£111?? 
OH &I:WT 
II f!'M/N15T WIMP '! 
KCMIN!?
A vti:J6TIIKIIW PINKO ? 

WHO KNOW5 WHIIT ME'.(/
\ ct.~t'/ 
o::_' 
' 

The Daily Crossword 
~iJ4hn 
OUTRAGEOUS 
FORTUNE 
. 
TONIGHT 
8:00 &10:30 pna $2.00 
Cushing Auditoriuna 
© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
5 Amphibious 
vehicle 6 Aura 7 Treat with 

disdain 8 Giant 9 Sportsman's 
woe 10 Intoned 11 Metal 12 Comedian 

Johnson 13 Hollow stem 21 Vulnerable 
spot 23 Chopper 25 Ringworm 27 Youngster 28 Circle parts 

29 Warning  43 Name  54 Note  
device 30 Ms Tucker  45 Ledges 47 Resinous  55 Sign 56 Devastation  
32 Hackneyed  substance  58 Veer  
33 Bigot  49 Actors on the  59 Robert - 
34 Bedside  move  60 US  statesman  
pitchers  51  Savalas  Lewis  
37 Sign gases  53 Food fish  63  Remiss  
The Far Side  Gary Larson  



Sports 
Thursday, December 10, 1987
page 12 
ND women crush Oakland as front line dominates 
By GREG GUFFEY expect to score 100 points. We really got our break going
Sports Writer 
tonight." 

The women's basketball team found the perfect way to The 51-point margin of vic­control a team averaging over tory still didn't indicate the 80 points per outing last night­total dominance by the Irish. beat it at its own game. Take for instance: 
•Notre Dame's starting 
The Irish outran, out­front line outscored Oakland's pressured, and out-muscled same trio 56-26, including a 40­Oakland (Rochester, Mich.) 15 margin in the first half. For­last night en route to a 100-49 wards Heidi Bunek and victory. The win snapped a Diondra Toney scored 21 and seven-game Pioneer winning 19 points, respectively, while streak and improved the Irish center Sandy Botham tossed in record to 4-1. 16. 
"We played hard with a lot •The Irish outrebounded the of intensity on offense and Pioneers, 49-29. 
Karen Robinson (20) brings the ball up for the to 4-1 with the win. Greg Guffey has the details 
defense tonight," Irish coach 
Irish In last night's 100-49 thrashing of previously­at left. Muffet McGraw said. "I didn't see ROMP, page 9 
unbeaten Oakland. Notre Dame raised Its record
of" 

Ranked wrestlers head to Ohio for first dual meet 
By STEVE MEGARGEE year," said Irish coach Fran The Irish have suffered knee Jerry Durso (142), Ron Wis­"We don't have much depth Sports Writer McCann. "I really don't know injuries to 142-pound junior Pat niewski (150) , Todd Layton at all," said McCann. "Once we a whole lot about them. I know Boyd and freshman (158), Mark Gerardi (167), have our team stabilized, we'll Now that three strong tourn­they've really been promoting heavyweight Jeff Massey. Todd Tomazic (177), Chris start recruiting for depth. 
ament finishes have propelled this meet, and they're going to Geneser (190) and George "When you're limited in the Notre Dame wrestling be in really good shape." Notre Dame will still bring a Logsdon (heavyweight). scholarships, you've got to rely team to a Top 20 ranking, the full lineup to Miami, but most on walk-ons for your depth and Irish get to see tonight whether Notre Dame also is rebound­of the wrestlers will be moving "We're giving them an edge we haven't had a lot of guys they can have similar success ing from a poor 1986-87 cam­up a weight class. because we're wrestling out of come out. We've got two wres­in dual matches. paign, when the injury-plagued "You're always taking a our weight classes, but hope­tling right now in Smith and 
Notre Dame goes to Miami Irish finished with a 1-11 chance when you do that, but fully our talent will prevail," Logsdon, but we could use of Ohio tonight for its first dual record. With fewer injuries so with finals coming up, you said McCann. more." match of the season. While the far this season, the Irish have don't want everyone worrying After the meet with the Redskins are traditionally one won the Michigan State Invita­about their weight," said Last year, two injuries Redskins, Notre Dame goes of the toughest teams in the tional and turried in impressive McCann. meant the Irish probably would west during the winter break. 
Mid-American Conference, performances at the St. Louis have to forfeit at least one of The Irish have two dual meets they will have to rebound from Open and the Las Vegas Invi­Andy Radenbaugb (118) and the weight class competitions. in Colorado, facing Adams a tough 1986-87 season. tational. Notre Dame goes into Dave Smith (126) both will Even though McCann has a few State College on Jan. 8 and Air tonight's match ranked 16th in start at their normal weight more people to use this year, Force on Jan. 8. The team also "They're pretty young, and the nation, its first-ever na­classes. The other starters he still realizes the team lacks will compete in the Wyomingthey were kind of down last tional ranking during a season. tonight are Dave Carlin (134), depth. Invitational on Jan. 9. 
Football tradition keeps ND hoops in the shadows 
The Notre Dame football tradition commands The Irish ran onto the floor, ran out to a lead, Not even the Faust years could drown out football respect. National Championships, major bowl ap­and ran away with a big win-all to polite applause. enthusiasm. No matter how bad it was, it was still pearances and constant national exposure make it Louisville shot bricks all day, had trouble handling Notre Dame football, something held very sacred. one of the most visible programs around. the easiest of passes and showed all of the normal And this year's 8-3 brought football fever back to 
The Irish basketball tradition, in comparison, first-game flaws you'd expect, and a lot more. The heights it enjoyed before Faust. 
seems to get precious little respect. And nowhere fans' reaction? Two loud standing ovations with Basketball is a different story. 
was that more evident than at last Saturday's Big nine and three minutes remaining tcftry to coerce Digger Phelps has guided the Irish to 326-147 mark 
Four Classic at the Hoosier Dome in Indianapolis. a, late comeback out of the Cardinals. in just over 16 years. Notre Dame has appeared in 
Indiana, Kentucky, Louisville and Notre Dame 
the NIT or NCAA post-season tournaments in all got together to put on a real basketball show. A but two of those seasons. Sounds like a decent tradi­'Final Four' atmosphere, according to several Rick tion., coaches and players. Currently the Irish have one of thenation's top 
Looking into the stands, one could observe a sec­Rietbrock players leading the way, just like the football team tion of red (I guess Cardinal red would be more did, and should have a pretty successful season, precise), a section of blue, another section of red Assistant Sports Editor just like the football team did. But the basketball (this one should have been crimson, but its deviation team does not cause hordes of students to camp from red could not be discerned by the naked eye) The noise for the Kentucky-Indiana game was no overnight for tickets like the football did. Why? and a section with no dominant hue... the Notre comparison, in fact the Kentucky crowd made more One reason is the cost of tickets. Lower arena Dame section. noise than the Notre Dame crowd during the first basketball tickets went for $80 for the 16 home 
In the first game, Notre Dame versus Louisville, game. games. Too much for many students to pay, even the difference between the sections was much more if they were to split them with another student. than color. The Irish thoroughly outplayed the Car­But the Irish fans did explode once-when the These are the same students who forked over $50 dinals, but no one would have known by watching scoreboard flashed that Tim Brown had won the the stands. Heisman Trophy. see RESPECT, page 8 

There are only 15 shopping days left until Christmas 
What do you do? Your parents want something from Notre Dame. You bought them all sweatshirts from the bookstore last year, and the Tiffany Notre Dame lamps will clash with the living room colors. The answer is easy: buy them a subscription to The Observer. They'll get all the campus news and sports coverage that students get every day. Best of all it's the gift that keeps on giving all the way until May. 
Please enclose $25 for the remainder of the semester and send the name and mailing address to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 








