

Mostly sunny
/IRISH EXTRA: Alabama Preview 
Mostly sunny and mild today, high in the upper 50s. Partly cloudy tonight and Saturday, low tonight in the middle 30s.

IVIEWPOINT: Football memories 
High Saturday around 55. 

VOL. XXI, NO. 52 

registration 
By LISA M. MONTPETIT News Staff 
A new registration procedure for Saint Mary's students begins next week in the south lounge of Regina Hall. 
Before students can register for core classes and electives for the Spring se­mester, they must complete an advise­ment form to be signed by their ad­visors, said Sister Francesca Kennedy of the Registrar's Office. Students who arrive at registration without a com­pleted and signed form will be turned away, she said. 
The new registration procedure also enters all class selections directly into a computer. Students will no longer have to stand in separate lines to obtain computer cards for each class. Each student will leave registration with a printed copy of her completed schedule. 
Registration begins next Monday with the seniors. The signed advise­ment form will be stamped for admit­tance into the south lounge. At one of five computer terminals students' se­lections will be checked for openings. If available, a space in the class is then reserved. 
Any pre-registration that took place in the departments will already be on file. 
The Registrar's Office recommends 
see POLICY, page 9 The Observer I Mike Moran The pipe organist at Sacred Heart Church practices for mass this weekend. The Church has been undergoing renovations to preserve and protect its beauty. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 

No plan yet for payment of damages 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
The Hall Presidents' Council decided 
Thursday to ask the classes and student 
government to help pay the $1,400 in 
food fight damages but did not come 
up with a specific plan for dividing the 
bill, said Bob Daley, HPC co-chairman. 
HPC members will meet before Mon­
day's student senate meeting to devise 
a formula, he said. 
Last Friday, HPC members met with John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life. Goldrick said the stu­dent body as a whole should take responsibilty for the damages which resulted from the food fights following the victory over Michigan because as many as 800 students were involved, HPC members said. 
Goldrick placed no restrictions, guid­lines or a deadline on how or when the bill should be paid, Daley said. 
A plan to collect the money through a fundraiser was rejected, Daley said. "That would draw too much attention," he said. "We want to get it out of the way as soon as possible." 
Though Daley said he hoped the whole student body would go along with the plan, "It's more important that the student leaders agree," he said. 
see DAMAGES, page 9 

Hare Krishnas also tricked on-campus students 
By SCOTT BEARBY Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame students on­campus reportedly have been solicited by the same group of Hare Krishnas who have con­ducted door-to-door campaigns at Campus View Apartments. 
Residents of Alumni, Fisher, Pangborn and Grace Halls con­firmed reports of solicitations before and after October break. Notre Dame Assistant Director of Security Phil Johnson said his department received information "from a couple of halls." 
The individuals claim to rep­resent Appalachian Projects, an umbrella group of the Inter­national Society for Krishna 

A Weekend with Alabama 
FRIDAY: 4:30p.m.: Band Rehearsal at Washington Hall. 7 p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center. SATURDAY: 
9 a.m. -5 p.m.: Alumni Hospitality Center in the JACC North Dome. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, family and friends are cordially invited for refreshments, entertain­ment, films and information. 9:30a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous. A closed meeting of the AA fellowship will convene in the Center for Social Con­cerns. Noon: Performance by Notre Dame cheerleaders and the Dancin' Irish in front of the bookstore. 
12:30 p.m.: Performance by Shenanigans in the JACC North Dome. 1 p.m.: Glee Club Performance in the JACC North Dome. 
1:30 p.m.: Band Concert on the steps of the Administration Building. 2:25p.m.: Pre-game program in the stadium. 2:45p.m.: Football--The Fighting Irish vs. Alabama Crim­son Tide. After the game: Alumni Hospitality Center in the JACC North Dome. 
Consciousness OSKCON), who they believed the people to be have been distributing Notre from Notre Dame Appalachia Dame hats and stickers in ex­groups, but later found out they change for donations at football were Hare Krishnas. games. Solicitors opened with the 
The Observer reported last line, "We're going to have to week that members of ISKCON issue you a citation for having conducted door-to-door cam­too much fun," according to paigns on Campus View resi­Chris Dahlen, a Fisher Hall dents before and after break. sophomore. He said the man Many of those solicited said handed him a sticker last Tues­day and began to talk to him about what a $10 donation would mean to a starving fam­ily. 
When pressed for informa­tion by another Fisher resi­dent, the man said he was from Appalachian Projects and was based in South Carolina. 
see DUPED, page 4 


Cease-fire plan is 'concrete' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega, after talks with House speaker Jim Wright, said Thursday he has come up with a "concrete pro­posal" for achieving a cease­fire with the Contra rebels. 
Ortega, here for a meeting of the Organization of American States, told reporters he will announce his plan on Friday. 
There were stong hints that the proposal would include a role for Wright in the efforts to reach a cease-fire, but Ortega said he could not provide details because "we're still refining all of this." 
As Ortega spoke, Nicaraguan Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, who has been designated intermediary in pending cease-fire talks be­tween the Sandinista forces and the Contras, was heading for Washington and was ex­pected to take part in the Friday announcement. 
Congressional sources said last week that Wright had declined an offer to serve as a cease-fire intermediary be­tween the Sandinistas and the Contras because he did not have the time and felt that such a role was inappropriate for someone outside of Central America. 
But meetings Wednesday and Thursday between Wright and Ortega left the impression that the speaker may have agreed to play a role. 
Wright has been an influen­tial figure on the Central Amer­ican issue and the signs of cooperation between him and Ortega contrasted sharply with Reagan administration efforts to shun diplomatic contacts with the Sandinistas. 
At a news conference Thursday morning, Ortega ac­cused President Reagan of reneging on a promise Reagan was alleged to have made last August to hold direct talks with Sandinista authorities. 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
The first installment of a five-year $1 million pledge 
from Houston Endowment Inc. for the Jesse Jones Faculty 
Research Development Program has been received by the 
University. The program funds a computer database for 
corporate research in the College of Business Administra­
tion and awards grants throughout the University for fac­
ulty research, equipment and travel. Jones was a Houston 
businessman who served as Secretary of Commerce. The 
Jones program is directed by Dr. Robert Gordon, vice 
president for advanced studies. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
A March for Life information meeting will be held on Sunday at 7 p.m. for all those interested in the annual march against abortion on Jan. 22 in Washington, D.C. The meeting will be in the game room of the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
"Rock Around the World" a multi-cultural 
celebration will be taking place at Theodore's tonight from 
10 to 11:30. It will feature Lebanese, Philippine, Hawaiian, 
Latin, and soul music. -The Observer
. 
Alfred Stepan of Columbia University will lecture on "Empowering Civilians in New Democracies: The Role of the Military in Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, and Spain," at 4:30p.m. in 131 Decio. -The Observer 
"The Impact of AIDS on Health Care Workers" will be the topic of a talk given by Dr. Keith MacDonnell from the Medical School at Northwestern at 3 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. -The Observer 
Neighborhood Study Helf Program invites all past and present tutors to attend the 2 Anniversary Celebration on Sunday. An 11 a.m. mass celebrated by Father Malloy will be followed by a noon brunch. The event will be held in the Monogram Room of the JACC. -The Observer 
The Senior Class Block Party will take place today from 4 to 6:30p.m. in the J ACC. The event is designed to show appreciation to residents of the Northeast Neigh­borhood and other campus areas. Entertainment is free. 
-The Observer 
The Emerald Society is asking that students hang banners for this weekend's football game against Ala­bama, and student government asks all students to wear gold and blue to the final home game of this season. -The Observer 
Fashion Show tryout applications must be submitted 
today. For information on applications or tryouts, contact 
Kim Stevenson at 4072. -The Observer 
The Moreau Hall Art galleries will feature works by four individual artists and a group show from Chicago's Dart Gallery from today until Dec. 10. A reception, opening the exhibitions, will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Moreau Galleries. -The Observer 
The Isis Gallery-in Riley Hall will hold a reception to open a show featuring mixed media collages by Marlene Zander Guitierrez from New Mexico. The reception will be today from 4 to 6 p.m. The show will run until Nov. 27. 
-The Observer 
Child Care Open Forum: Father Malloy's task 
force on Marriage, Family, and Other Life Commitments 
is holding an open meeting on child care for all students, 
staff and faculty. The meeting will be in the Center for 
Social Concerns from 12:15 to 1:15 p.m. on Monday. -The Observer 
"How the Ninth Amendment Sank Bork," will be a lecture given by Hon. Charles Cooper, Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel at noon on Monday in the Law School Courtroom. -The Observer 

Design Edito• .................... Matt Breslin 
Design A11istant ................ Alison Cocks ~~~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·c~t~;~~: Typesetten . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tom Elliott NO Day Editor .................... Greg Lucas News Editor ........................ C!ithJ S~cy Photographer ....................... Brian Mast 
................................. Ann Mar1e urrung Viewpoint copy editor . . . . . . ... . . Ma~t Guye Copy EditoT ....................... Uz Panzica Viewpoint !ayOtLt . . .. . . . .......... .. Julie R~an Sports Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen SMC day editor............. Suzanne Devme 
Accent Copy Editor .......... Beth Cornwell Irish Extra Editor ........................... D.C. Accent Layout.................... Carolyn Rey Irish Extra Design ......... Stewart Garcia 
Tile ~(USPS S99 2-o!O) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriJia aam mel v.catioa periods. Tile o..ner is published by tbc students of the University of Notre DuM mel Saint Marl's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purebu­ed ror S40 per year (S15 per semester) by writina Tile ~er, P .0. Boll Q, Notre Dame, ladiaua 46SS6. 
Tile o.-... is a IIICIIIber or Tile "-da... rn.. All reproduc:tion riahts are 
~­

, Market crash should get us to reduce the deficit 
As long as you're not an economist, it should be clear that a particular Monday during last 

Chris
break has spelled the end of an era. 

Only a few days after Wall Street laid its Julka second egg, it looked like some of Our Mother's very own had taken it right through the nose. 
Assistant News Editor 
I had never seen such a deathly quiet crowd of football fans as the one watching the band before the USC game. Of course, my fellow busi­ness and econ majors continue to reassure me that although Wall Street has gone to the bears, all talk about an upcoming depression is a bunch of bull. But then President Reagan kept repeating ''the economy is fundamentally sound" while the index fell even further--much like the Wizard of Oz saying, "Ignore that man behind the curtain." 
Economists downplay Crash II because they are in the business of faith --that's why they call the foundation of our economy a fiduciary system. True the stock market has stabilized at a level $1 trillion poorer. To ensure this, however, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has had to lower interest rates--all of which amounts to nothing more than another form of taxation through devaluating the dollar. The height of irony was of course that the Secretary of the Treasury had to beg the West Germans to lower their interest rates. Sooner or later, with debts soaring into space and the dollar on the verge of becoming as valuable as lira, we just better hope the Europeans are nice enough 


story of the Reagan administration. For all his to give us a Marshall plan. 
promises to streamline the budget and bail usIn concrete terms, of course, the crash of the out of the stagflation already afflicting thestock market has ruined the economy about as country, Reagan simply got out a $2 trillionlittle as the crash of the Challenger has actually credit card. He had no stomach to cut popularruined the space program. In both cases, the programs like social security, as Stockmanprincipal effect is psychological. Still, it doesn't shows, and so became just another ineffective take much of a genius to figure out that this Carter. He was too nice to refuse his pork­confirms that our country's economic day of barrelling constituents, and nice guys finishreckoning has come. 
last--not only in campus romance, but in politicsThe day of the yuppy is officially over. I as well.

predict that in his place will be an entirely new breed, which, for lack of a better imagination, Maybe, hopefully, though, the crash will have I will call the "puppy"--that is, Poor Un­a big enough impact to jolt us out of the 
employed Post Preppie. daydream which has taken increasing hold of Someone may be asking, does this guy get us. The stock market crash does mean the end 
pleasure out of repeating the obvious and being of an era. If it means the end of the era of such a pessimist? Actually, no. My purpose is spending as if it were a religion, then it could quite the reverse. Despite the fact that the head off a disaster even worse than a handful 
meltdown on Wall Street is a financial Cher­of speculators jumping out of windows. nobyl that should not be underestimated, I say, It's when people are too optimistic that I will it could prove to be one of the best things that get nervous, however. If Black Monday doesn't ever happened to this country. convince us that we need more than a $30 billion 
A good part of this mess has resulted because reduction of the deficit, then I just hope we get 
we have refused to face pain. This is the whole that Marshall Plan. 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

HELP CELEBRATE THE 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 

*Give to the 1988 SLF Anniversary Fund* A Great Notre Dame Tradition Continues This February 21-28 When The Sophomore Literary 
Festival Welcomes Josef Skvorecky, Peter Michelson, Marilyn Krysl, John Engels, Don Hendrie Jr.,,and Paule Marshall, For A Week-Long Celebration That Has Become One Of America's Most Respected Collegiate Literary Events. 
SUPPORT THE ARTS AT NOTRE DAME! 
SLF is sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission­of the Student Union Board, 2nd Floor LaFortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

~--------------------------------------------------------~-----------~-----------------------------------­FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
Campaign visits to Gulf banned 
Associated Press  Weinberger,  was  released by  
the  Pentagon  on  Thursday.  
WASHINGTON -Democratic  Several  ranking  officials  
presidential  contender  Jesse  agreed to discuss the matter on  
Jackson will not be allowed to  condition they not be identified.  
make a planned Thanksgiving  James Zagbe, an aide to Jack­ 
visit to U.S. forces in the Per­ son, said the candidate would  
sian Gulf, the Pentagon said  proceed with the fact-finding  
Thursday,  unveiling  a  new  aspects of his trip to Bahrain,  
policy.  Saudi Arabia and Ethiopia. A  
Officials said the Pentagon  major  focus  of  the  trip,  
will  not  sanction  visits  by  however, had been to visit U.S.  
presidential  candidates  and  troops  in  the  region  over  
other public figures with U.S.  Thanksgiving.  
forces in the gulf unless official  
duties justify the journey, offi­ Jackson campaign press sec­ 
cials said.  retary Frank Watkins accused  
Jackson  is  free  to  visit  the Reagan administration of  
friendly gulf nations for  con­ "sending  off  conflicting sig­ 
sultations  with  government  nals," because, he said, Jack­ 
leaders, but he will not be al­lowed to board Navy ships or  son had received cooperation from  offers of the State  Prayer vigil  The Observer I Brian Mast  
visit U.S. forces on duty in the region, the officials added. The policy, signed by  Department and also from Lt. Gen. Colin Powell, named by President Reagan as the new  The Anti-Apartheid Network continued its prayer vigil on the steps of the Administration Building Thursday at noon. Many members of the group fasted for di­ vestment in South Africa. Another vigil will be held today at 12:15 at the Center for Continuing Education.  

Defense Secretary Caspar National Security adviser. 



GRAND 

OPENING! 
F<l'\t service, oul'\tanding quality, and low, low prices! 
...--liii'ICUl
2YJC COPIU 
8V. X II wbi"' 20# au10-led 

kinko·s· 
Great copies. Great people. 
181M7 Stnte Road l3 ..cruss Irom Corktovne l.iquors 271-0398 
~-f Sat SUil 1 • JOam-l Opm 9am-bpm Mon-5pm 

Iran vows to continue fighting 
Associated Press Iran also announced its gun­warships, the largest since es­
boats intercepted and searched cort operations began in July,
MANAMA, Bahrain -Iraq eight unidentified "foreign" moved up the gulf in rough claimed its warplanes hit an­cargo ships and oil tankers in seas. other tanker in the Persian the Strait of Hormuz on Wed­Gulf on Thursday and Iran nesday and Thursday but let The Greek owners of a super­responded to Arab leaders' them go after no Iraq-bound tanker under charter to Iran calls for a cease-fire by vowing cargo was found aboard. confirmed that Iraqi planes the war would continue until Tehran's military com-damaged the vessel Wednes­"the aggressor" Iraq is munique said,"A foreign war­day night, and Iraq said it at­defeated. ship was also reconnoitered by tacked another tanker in 
Iran's prime minister, Hus­the Iranian navy," but it re­Iranian waters early sein Musavi, denounced an ported no incident and gave no Thursday. That would be Iraq's Arab League summit in Jordan details. sixth attack on a tanker in four as a "defeat for the Arabs, be­days, but only the raid on the cause its decisions were dic­Another convoy of U.S.­Greek ship was confirmed in­tated by the United States." flagged tankers and American dependently. 

So readable the characters jump off the screen. More power. Less weight. And an IBM PC®-compatible operating system. Here's the Zenith Data Systems Z-181 PC ... a laptop with all the features of a desktop! And we can even put a spin on it ... 
Now, the Z-181 Laptop PC can be yours at a great student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'U give you a full demon­stration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from coUege to career! 
So stop by today. And while you're at it, ask about the Z-183 PC... our most powerful laptop yet. See you soon! 

NOTRE DAME COMPUTER CENTER COMPUTER-MATH BUILDING DEMO LAB 239-5600 


711'"" 1data
systems 
THE OLIAIJTY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON 
C 1987, Zenith Data Systems 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~ 
~-,­

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
page 4 The Observer 

Impact of drastic cuts in nuclear arms discussed 

By NATASHA WILSON Staff Reporter 
"It is difficult to forsee the total elimination of nuclear weapons from this earth with­out drastic changes in the in­

ternational  order,"  physicist  
Wolfgang  Panofsky  said  
Thursday.  

''The reason for this some­what pessimistic conclusion lies in the very nature of nu­clear weapons. The explosion of even a small number of nu­clear weapons can wreck un­speakable havoc," said Panofsky in a lecture entitled "Under What Circumstances Are Drastic Cuts in Nuclear Weapons Feasible?" 
The speech, sponsored by Notre Dame's Institute for In­ternational Peace Studies, was the second in a series on "The Cost of Militarism." 
Panofsky, director emeritus of the Stanford Linear Ac­celerator Center, said the 

Duped 
continued from page 1 
A leader of the ISKCON Ap­palachian Projects was con­tacted last week in Moundsville, West Virginia, the site of a major Hare Krishna community. 
Dahlen said the man indi­cated he had permission from the University, but that "his su­pervisor" had the letter from Notre Dame. 
There was no confirmation that Appalachian Projects had a permit, but Du Lac states that "no door-to-door sales or solicitation in the dormitories" will be permitted, even if the group has authorization to so­licit on campus. 
Du Lac states that "University-approved organi­zations, campus residence halls and individual students are eligible to apply for a per­mit allowing them to engage in a merchandising activity on the Notre Dame campus." ISKCON does not meet any of those criteria. 
Alumni junior Richard Abood said he was one of four or five people he knew who donated money to Appalachian Projects before October break. He said the solicitor gave them Notre Dame hats and stickers with the logo of the Grateful Dead. 
Abood, who donated $10, said he did not know if the hats were officially licensed by Notre Dame, but last week Notre Dame Assistant General Coun­sel Pat Lyons said ISKCON is being investigated for copyright infringement of col­lege and university logos and professional sports teams. 
Abood said none of his group informed anyone of the solicita­tion and did not think much of the donations until the Obser­ver story ran last week. 
Johnson said individuals caught soliciting without a per­mit will be asked to stop. "Failure to heed that warning will result (in a trespassing ar­rest)," he said. 
HOCKEY ACTI NOTRE DAME 
vs 
LAKE FOREST NOVEMBER 13, 7:30 PM 


world leaders "have not analyzed the possibility of ac­hieving success (in arms con­trol) along the direction of traditional paths." 
"Let me warn you from the outset," he told the audience, "not to expect a declaration of a clear solution." He said, however, "the level of reduc­tion is going much further than those now on the bargaining table at Geneva." 
At Reykjavik last year, Reagan and Gorbachev dis­cussed limiting or eliminating intermediate range nuclear missles and reducing by fifty percent central strategic forces over a five year period. Disagreement on the quota of SDI (Strategic Defense Initia­tive) led to the termination of the meeting. 
Panofsky added many of the proposed reductions were am­biguous. The leaders promised to reduce "something" in Europe in the next ten years, he said. 
Discussion has proceeded to the point that most recently Reagan and Gorbachev have agreed to meet Dec. 7 to dis­cuss more reduction plans, Panofsky said. He said he ex­pects negotiators to concen­trate next month on the ques­tion of verifying or policing the reductions. 

He added they should also consider ways to extend verification of "third party weapons," those based on the soil of U.S. allies. 
The physicist contends that much of the current negotiation is too political in nature and of­ten fails to consider the human lives involved. 
A fifty percent reduction of all nuclear weapons by the su­perpowers "would be rela­tively insignificant." "If you woke up tomorrow and found out that the total number of nu­clear weapons had been reduced by a factor of two, the world would hardly have changed. The potential for human suffering would be the same. 

ironwood 
Start now and you could earn $1,000 + in the next three 
months to buy presents for everyone on your list, including 
yourself. .. and continue earning into The New Year. 
• 
$4.50 per hour guaranteed with planned increases. 

• 
Modern, professional offices In South Bend. 

• 
20-25 Hours per week. 

• 
Variety of schedules. 

• 
No experience required. 

• 
Company paid training. 

• 
Paid vacation and holidays. 

• 
Generous Montgomery Ward discount. 


The Signature Group is the exciting direct marketing subsidiary of Montgomery Wtrd and Mobil Oil. Our part time telemarketing positions offer an ideal way to help make ends meet. If you have good reading skills and a pleasant telephone personality, we need you to talk with our customers across the country and ex­plain the products and services we provide. NO COLD CALLS. 
You and/or someone you know can earn important extra dollars for the months ahead. Start next week and solve your holiday money problems. 
Call 236-4206 
10 AM to 5 PM weekdays. 
nr 
SIGNATURE 
GROUP 

Equal Opportunity Employer mlf 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 




laiH:l~~1:1:1 
BICYCLES •EXERCISERS ..BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES-SERVICE-PARTS-ACCESSORIES 
Winter Storage Aval"lable 
ROSElAND 
277-8866 
135 DIXIE WAYS. 
• • • ~Pci~~ci~~~oi1~n~~~~;~ 
TUlSOAY 10/\M 7PM WEilNESflAY·SATURDAY lOAM 5 30~'M 
MISHAWAKA 

259-4862 
3835 LWE 
Hope you "fly high" on your 



b~~:t~~·;;tr 11~. 
, f-.~ \ Love, 
, Rachel, 
Christine, Lilliana, Megan, Margaret, Kelly and the Stanford Crew. 
) M!JSICAL CAP S79S 

A1 MUSICAL $595 
~ KEYCHAIN 
AVAILABLE AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
HOURS: Friday 9 am to 5 pm Saturda 8 am to 5 m 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
The Observer page 5 

Summit schedule announced 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev is expected to arrive in Wash­ington late in the day on Dec. 7, hold three days of working meetings with President Reagan beginning Dec. 8 and depart on Dec. 10, the White House said Thursday. 
Giving a preliminary schedule for the Reagan­Gorbachev summit, spokes­man Marlin Fitzwater said, "The Soviet team indicated some amusetnent at the stories of an extended stay and did not give any indica­tion that would be the case." Several published reports earlier this week said Gor­bachev was seriously con­sidering staying longer. 
Fitzwater said Gorbachev wants to hold a press confer­ence before leaving but that the time and location have not been determined. 
The spokesman said it was not clear yet if Reagan would see Gorbachev on Dec. 7, a Monday. The for­
0
mal wnln• =~a "~'remony
• 
Friendly, homelike 
atmosphere 1893 Inn Near universities and downtown 
might be delayed until Dec. 8, a Tuesday, he added. 
"Generally speaking, there will be working ses­sions each day, beginning Tuesday, Dec. 8," Fitzwater said. He said it was envi­sioned that the meetings would take place at the White House. 
A state dinner for Gorbac­hev likely will be scheduled Tuesday night at the White House, followed by a reciprocal dinner given by Gorbachev for Reagan the next night. 


Cut may increase abortions, deaths 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The planned cutoff of U.S. money for inter­national planned parenthood programs could result in 1,200 maternal deaths and 69,000 ad­ditional abortions worldwide over the next three years, ac­cording to a study released Thursday. 
The study by University of Michigan researchers also con­cluded that the cutoff would lead to an additional 311,000 live births over three years. 
The $23 million annual fun-




ICE COLD BEER 
Frank's Place Liquors 
Mr. L's Liquors 
413 Hickory Road
327 w. Marion -Two blocks 

Across from Town and
southwest of Memorial Hospital 

Country Shopping Center
Hours:Mon.-Sat. 1Oam 'til 1am 

5 minutes from NO
232-2277 

Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 10am-11pm 
Good Through 

Everyday prices -Case Beer, Cans
Sale Prices 11113-87 
unless otherwise noted 
Stroh's 30 pack $7.55 
75 Schaeffer $4.99 
Miller Lite S7·
~ 
Pabst $6.59 
"Great" Liquor and Wine Specials 
Join us in Frank's Place Lounge 
Prices are subject to change at any time ­Quantity while supplies last 

Budweiser $8.79 Bud Lite $8. 79 Busch $7.59 Goebels $5.89 Hamms $6.89 Little Kings Case $6.19 Lowenbrilu bottles $10.69 Maister Brau $5.89 Michelob and Lite bottles $10.69 
~------~ 
Fri.-Sat. 1 Gam-midnight 
Miller $8.79 Miller Draft $8.79 Miller Lite $8.79 Milwaukee's Best $5.89 Old Milwaukee and Ute $5.89 Old Style $7.99 Pabst $6.89 Schlitz $5.99 Schaeffer $5.89 Stroh's 30 pack $8.59 
Import-Bottles 
Corona $18.89 Heineken $16.89 Heineken Dar~ $16.89 Moosehead ~:14.29 Molson $12.89 
ding for Family Planning In­ternational Assistance is scheduled to end Jan. 1, the group's U.S. parent organiza­tion, planned Parenthood Federation of America, said Thursday. 
The Agency for International Development will not renew the funding because the group has rejected a demand that it not assist foreign family plan­ning programs that include abortion or abortion counsel­ing, even if they use their own funds rather than U.S. money. 
This cutoff will have a direct affect on human beings and on misery, said Faye Wattleton, president of Planned Paren­thood. 
Rather than reducing abor­tions, it will lead to 69,000 more of them, as well as increases in maternal deaths and un­planned births, she said, citing a study done for her group. 
An AID spokesman said later Thursday "the premise of the study appears to be based on assumptions that (a) family planning funds will be reduced and (b) if Planned Parenthood does not provide the services. no one else will. Both are wrong. Family planning fun­ding has not been reduced and other organizations are ready to pick up any slack that may occur as a result of Planned Parenthood taking itself out of the program." 
"This administration strongly supports family plan­ning. It does oppose abortion. Planned Parenthood is trying to turn a fight over abortion into a fight over family plan­ning," said the spokesman, who declined to be identified. 
"This is an administration that's out to defund the left and, boy, Planned Parenthood is the pelt they're wanted on their wall for years," commented Sharon Camp, vice president of the private Population Crisis Committee. 
Already other administra­tion cuts in population pro­grams, based on abortion policies in other nations, have had an impact on family plan­ning around the world, she said. 

~~-----.. ~--~------~--­

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987
page 6 The Observer 

Helm changes mind: Kennedy would be fine Justice 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Supreme Court nominee Anthony Ken­nedy won words of support from former opponent Jesse Helms Thursday in a day of White House peacemaking ses­sions free of the bitterness that followed President Reagan's previous two nominations. 
"I think he'll make a fine member of the Supreme Court," Helms, R-N.C., an out­spoken member of the Senate's conservative wing, told reporters after meeting sepa­rately with Reagan and with the federal appellate judge. However, a spokeswoman said Helms wouldn't make a deci­sion until after confirmation hearings. 
Late last month, after the Senate voted down Reagan nominee Robert Bork, Ken­nedy was considered the front­runner for the court vacancy until Helms said there was no way he would support a Ken­nedy nomination and other con­servatives also indicated dis­pleasure. Reagan then nominated Douglas Ginsburg, who withdrew last weekend after admitting past marijuana use. 
The president also met with 
Democrat Joseph Biden, chair-

The Observer I Brian Mast 
Patrick Linbeck, senior, fills out a checkmarked course stumbled out of bed Thursday morning to register form in the history department Thursday. Many students these limited courses. 

man of the Judiciary Commit­tee, as Kennedy made courtesy calls on senators, many of whom have reacted favorably but cautiously to the nomina­tion. · 
The Judiciary Committee's top-ranking Republican, Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, also took part in the White House meetings. He told reporters conservatives would 
back  Kennedy,  adding,  
You're  not  going  to  get  
anybody  who  will  please  
everybody."  

On Capitol Hill, during a meeting with Senate Republi­can Leader Bob Dole and other GOP senators, Kennedy, 51, said, "I like this; it's been won­derful." 
"If anyone has a chance to be confirmed, he does," Thur­mond said of Kennedy before the White House meeting. 
He urged confirmation by Christmas, but Biden indicated there would be no vote before the Senate returns early next year from its year end recess. 
Reagan, in introducing Ken­nedy at the White House on Wednesday, adopted an apolo­getic tone in regard to the contentious previous nomina­tions and praised his new nominee as a "courageous, tough but fair jurist." 

Funeral for battered child attended by hundreds 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Elizabeth 
Steinberg's natural mother and 
hundreds of strangers 
Thursday mourned the death of 
the 6-year-old who was found 
beaten in her adoptive parents' 
apartment, a death a rabbi said 
he hoped would save the lives 
of other children. 
"We kick ourselves. Why 
couldn't we see, why couldn't 
we tell?" Rabbi Dennis Math 
asked at a funeral after more 
than than 1,000 people paid 
their respects at Elizabeth's 
coffin. 
"We must risk being wrong, 
embarrassed, or even evoking 
a neighbor's anger when we 
feel a child is being harmed," 
said Math, who conducted a 
joint service with a Catholic 
priest. "May Lisa's death help 
to save the lives of other 
children. Then her life will be 
sanctified." 
The child's natural mother, Michelle Launders, saw her newborn daughter for only 20 seconds before giving her up for adoption, but fought in court for the right to bury the child because she did not want it to be done by "the people who killed her." 
Police found Elizabeth com­
atose and brain dead Nov. 2 in 
lawyer Joel Steinberg's Green­
wich Vilage apartment. 
A judge ruled Tuesday that Elizabeth was never legally adopted, and sources familiar with the investigation said Thursday that police were still trying to determine whether the girl was a commodity in a black market baby-selling ring. 
Steinberg, a lawyer, and his live-in lover, Hedda Nus­sbaum, are charged with mur­der and endangering the wel­fare of a child in the case. 
Cardinal John O'Connor was among more than 1,000 visitors to the casket of the girl whose death outraged the city. The coffin was surrounded with small individual bouquets from visitors as well as larger floral arrangements. 
Other cards and letters from mourners who had never met the girl were left beneath or atop the casket. 
"To Lisa, God bless you," read a hand-made card with flowers drawn in crayon from 9-year-old Padre Smith. "I hope the angels watch over you." 
Mourners, many weeping openly, filed past the white steel casket in a steady stream Thursday morning at the Red­den Funeral Home. 


CD COUPON 


illl'$2.00 OFF 
ALL DISCS 
EXPIRES 11-30-87 PRICED $15.99 AND UP EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS 

CD COUPON CLASSICAL & JAZZ 
$4.00 OFF 
ALL DISCS EXPIRES 11-30-87 PRICED $16.99 
LP I TAPE COUPON 


$1.00 OFF 
ALL LP /TAPES 
EXPIRES 11·30-87 PRICED $6.99 UP EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS 

Cut-Rate-Liquors 2128 South Bend Ave.-277-3611 Across from Yellow Submarine 
BEER PRICES WARM OR COLD 
MEISTER BRAU-24 CANS· $4.79 BUSCH -24 CANS -$6.39 MILLER LITE -24 CANS -$8.29 MILLER DRAFT BOTTLES -24 NR'S -$8.69 PABST BLUE RIBBON-24 CANS-$6.89 LABATT'S-6 PAK NR'S • $2.69 



WINE PRICES WARM OR COLD 
ALMADEN WINE CASKS • 4.0 L -$6.99 BLACK TOWER -750 ML -$4.99 GALLO BLUSH • 750 ML -$2.89 SEBASTIAN I (ALL FLAVORS) -750 ML • 2 FOR $5.00 BARTLES & JAYMES • 4 PAK-$2.89 


LIQUOR SPECIALS 
BACARDI RUM -1.0 L -$8.99 OLD BUSHMILLS IRISH WHISKEY -750 ML -$9.99 JIM BEAM -750 ML -$5.99 EVAN WILLIAMS -750 ML -$5.99 KAMCHATKA VODKA-1.75 L-$8.99 BAILEY'S IRISH CREAM -750 ML -$12.99 KAHLUA COFFEE LIQUEUR -750 ML -$10.99 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
The Observer 



Security Beat 
Wednesday, November Thursday, November 12 
11 
10:15 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of a license plate 

from his car that was parked in the dents were warned and asked to 
12:55 p.m. Two South Bend resi· 
C1 lot between 8 p.m. Nov. 9 and 6 leave University property. The two 
p.m. Nov. 10. men were hunting in property north 
10:20 a.m. A Notre Dame of Douglas Road. 
ployee reported the theft of three 

"2x2" quartz prisms from a machine reported the theft of a decorative 
I :55 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall 
in the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineer­license from the front of his car that 
ing. was parked in Green field over the 
12:52 p.m. A South Bend resident weekend. 
was arrested by Security 2:35p.m. A Breen-Phillips resident 
trespassing on University property. reported the theft of an envelope con­
The man was also wanted on a bench taining United Way funds sometime 
warrant. between 9 p.m. Sunday and 10:45 
2:20p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall 

reported the loss of his Notre Dame 3:50p.m. A resident of Carroll Hall 
a.m. Monday. 
sweatshirt. a pair of Addidas tennis reported the theft of the license plate 
shoes, and a from his car that was parked in the 
Field during the rugby game at 10 D6 lot between Nov. 6 and Nov. 11. 
a.m. on Nov. 7. 

,---­
1 When You're Ready for a The Observer 1 Brian Mast
Comedy tonight 

Bob Garner entertains the crowd at Theodore's nightclub night Thursday with his own special brand of magic and comedy. The event was spon­
sored by SUB, Classes of '89, '90, and '91.



I STUDY I 
I BIIFAK I It PRICE I 
I o~u~Q!:!!~ I.
I II Can't Believe It's 
WITH sPECIAL GuEsT CARL LaBOVE 
FRIDAY, NOV.13-8 PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM-SOUTH BEND Tickets available at Morris Civic Auditorium 
I 
I ~~!!!!~:.. II Box Office. Nightwinds in Niles and Northvillage Mall, Supersound in Elkhart. JR's in Laport,South Bend, IN 46637 11am-11pm or Charge by Phone 
271-9540 Sunday 
with Visa/MasterCard:Walking distance from Notre Dame 11 am • 7 pm 
219/284-9190 
With coupon. , ;._~REAKlN.G T"'l 
R~~~~~ ~ -~iilriiilc­
,------------------------------------------------. ' 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 

IINOTRE DAME DESIGNATED DRIVER WEEKI November 9 thru 13 I 
I I 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The following establishments support the N.D. Designated Driver Program: *The Linebacker *Hacienda *Senor Kelly's *Jeremiah Sweeney's *Alumni Senior Club *Macri's Deli *The Commons *Chi-Chi's *Chip's *Bridget's 
PLEASE DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE 
page 7 

Grants given for research programs 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $932,685 in grants during October for the support of research and various programs. Research funds totaled $742,258, includ­ing 
--$348,347 from IBM for re­

search on intelligent work sta­
tions by David Cohn, professor 
of electrical engineering, and 
Genesio Hubscher, assistant 
professor of electrical engi­
neering. 
--$151,500 from IBM for re­search on techniques for simulation of surface water flow and transport by William Gray, chairman and professor of civil engineering, and In­gemar Kinnmark, assistant professor of civil engineering. 
--$120,000 from the space divi­sion of the U.S. Air Force for research by Patrick Dunn, as­sociate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on the dynamics of charged vacusol generation. 
--$103,711 from the U.S. Navy for research by Thomas Muel­ler, director of engineering re­search and graduate studies and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on boundary layer characteristics on low Reynolds number air­foils. 
$18,000 from the American Chemical Society for research by Hsueh-Chia Chang, profes­sor of chemical engineering, on high Reynolds number flow in porous media. 
Awards for instructional pro­grams totaled $46,000, includ­ing: 
--$43,000 from the U.S. Depar­tment of Education for minority fellowships, adminis­tered by Frederick Wright, as­sistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters and director of the Black Studies Program. 
--$3,000 from the Food and Drug Law Institute, adminis­tered by William McLean, as­sistant dean of the Law School and concurrent associate pro­fessor of law, for a food and drug law course. 
Awards for service pro­grams totaled $37,799 from 
private benefactors for pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
Awards for other programs totaled $106,628, including: 
--$75,000 from the National Endowment for the Arts for im­plementation of an NEA pro­gram administered by Dean Porter, director of the Snite Museum of Art, and Teri Larkin, assistant director. 
--$16,000from the U.S. Depar­tment of Education for the Jacob Javits Fellows Program. administered by Chau Le, as­sistant vice president for ad­vanced studies. 
--$8,300 from the National In­stitutes of Health for a sympo­sium on using germ-free rats in aging studies, administered by Morris Pollard, Coleman director of Lobund Laboratory and professor emeritus of bio­logical sciences, Bernard Wostmann, professor emeritus of biological sciences, and David Snyder, assistant profes­sional specialist in Lobund. 
--$7,328 from the Argonne University Trust fund for sup­port of the 35th Midwest Solid State Conference. 


Sports Aptitude Test (SAn 
You Receive 
* 
20 Action-Packed Issues a year, weekly during the football season and monthly during the off-season. 

* 
Inside Information straight from the office of the Fighting Irish football staff with regular interviews with the coaches. 

* 
Insightful Editorials as Blue & Gold Illustrated's editors provide an objective look at the Fighting Irish football program. 

* 
Player Profiles take a personal look at the young men who carry on the great Notre Dame tradition. 

* 
Game Reports with on the spot coverage of all games ­home and away. 

* 
Recruiting -No one takes you inside the exciting world of recruiting like BGI. 

* 
Spring Reports give you day-to-day coverage of each spring practice complete with coach and player interviews. 

* 
History with an Irish flair as told through interviews with former Irish football and basketball greats as well as famous moments in Notre Dame history. 

* 
Basketball Coverage centering on analytical in-depth looks at the Irish hoopsters under head coach Digger Phelps, complete with coach and player features. 





1. What does every Notre Dame football fan need for Christmas? 
D A New Year's Day bowl. D A subscription to Blue & Gold Rlustrated [!a' Both 
Buy a su~scfiptio11 to B,!"!,!.~ ··.·.··••··. . . ,,,
regular price of $24.95 oefor .. .. .... ry 15, 1987 aria get. up to 3 additional subscffJ;lti:ifiis for just $19.95 each! PLUS, you receive the Pre-Bowl Issue 
libsolutely FREE!! 
For 

Fastest Service 
Phone 
---+~--------~P-------------­
Box 1007.fl! Notre Dame, IN 46556
1-219-289-6332 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
The Observer page 9 



Trade gap eases, market rallies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The nation's trade deficit eased to $14.1 bil­lion in September, the govern­ment reported Thursday in sta­tistics that suggested the U.S. import-export picture was brightening even before the stock market crash. 
The report, marking the lowest trade shortfall in four months, touched off a rally in the financial markets. 
The Commerce Department said the merchandise trade deficit, the gap between im­ports and exports, decreased by a strong $1.6 billion in Sep­tember from the $15.7 billion level of August. 
·Group Charters & Tours  • Card Tables  
• Restrooms  • Radios  
• Your DESIGNATED Driver  • Tape Players  

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $15.5 0 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT HE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, 
NIGHTWINDS (NILES NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R.'S (lAPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219-284-9190 

FEAST ON ALABAMA 
SHRIMP AT PUNY PRICES 2 LB. TAILGATE TRAY READY TO $2 OFF WITH THIS AD 
ANY SHRIMP DINNER $1 OFF WITH THIS AD OR FREE SKEWERED SHRIMP APPETIZER WITH AD AND PURCHASE OF DINNER ONE COUPON GOOD FOR ENTIRE TABLE EXPIRES.11-30-87 
212 w. Ediul,.Miabawab 2.5.5-,700 
Smng Lll1ldl 6-Difllur..Dirll bltW. CArry-0111 
5 MINUTES STRAIGHT EAST OF THE ACC 
The Dow Jones industrial average surged 69 points by early afternoon while the dol­lar, which had sunk to new 40­year lows earlier in the week, rallied strongly in New York, rising more than 1 yen in value to 136.35 yen. It also was sharply higher against European currencies. 
Although much of the trade improvement came from a decline in oil imports, imports of manufactured goods also fell while exports of U.S.-made products rose sharply. 
Economists took this as a sign that the long-awaited tur­nabout in trade accounts from a declining dollar may have fi­nall be un, and that it started weeks before the Oct. 19 stock market collapse. 
"Two and a half years after the dollar peaked, we are fi­nally seeing an effect on both imports and exports," said Robert Wescott, chief econo­mist for Alphametrics, a Philadelphia forecasting ser­vice. 
Last month's disappointing report on the August trade def­icit, which showed a smaller­than-anticipated improvement from the $16.5 billion shortfall in July, has been widely cited as one of the factors that helped trigger the stock market col­lapse. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the new figures were "especially en­couraging" because they in­cluded a gain in the export of manufactured goods. "These numbers should be received well," he said. 

.., .. o~A-,..

..~,•''" ""!Jr' ~ 
1 
.·,,,,'' \;...,o-•' IIIIJ\L'
_\t ~~~'> w~ y 
Aulbenlic Szechuan and lhellunan Tasle Plu!i t'anlonese and American 
LUNCHEON C€L€DRAT€ SPECIAL' 
Choirt-or 10 t'ombination f•latten. Includt-s ~oup, f'RK roll, Cri..-d rice & hot if'a. Ser\'f•d 12:~Utpm ­
-lpm. Mon. -Fri. 
83.45 
-OPENlDAYS­

1:10 UIXIF. HIGHWAY SOUTH BUSINESS U.S. Jlin ROSELI\I"D 
CSOUTII Hf:,'l/01 al HI\NIII\I.I.'S INN 12!9) 272-1376 
& oestO 
AnY. Haircut
n) 

40FF(WI coupo . -n nninO

$ F10 sesSIO("wlcoupon)
program oestgners 
With partiCIPaltdil~ 111 g Appo1ntment






$1 0OF
Valid Man-Frr When Sche ll
0 01 1

~~:M:en~tio~n~C~OL;lP~~~Fe~b~1~.:19~88~c:cn help pay," Nichols said.
O Void After No matter how the bill is
c0 
divided it's all going to come· from the student body, Viz said.
HAEL & 

6-5600 It will all come from the $55IC coNCEPTS MISHAWAKA 25 student activity fee all students 
1

MHAIR 236W £D/,.SD~otCaiHIJliS 291-1001 pay, he said. This fee finances 12' ·MileS {:as ND so BEND all student government, he 

About this test... 
A student takes some quiet time to reflect at the Grotto Thursday night. Students are tested by more than academics during their years at Notre Dame and the Grotto is often a source of strength. 
;;_./4-i{J,
~<-. ~''··Y:'-;.;::Uo.~nctut"l 
f Fat•ilili•• 
J 
SUNUA Y SPECIAL 
('hokt• ur l:i Uinnf'r!\. lnl'lurlt"~ 'llll[l. 'lt"iun.-d rh:e•, t•JJ.J.! rull anrl It·a. 
Only 
84.95 
Se•n Nf Irum II::UJ;un -.lpm 
. n 


Policy 
continued from page 1 
each student have alternatives available in the event of a closed class. Should all options fail, faculty trouble-shooters will be available at a separate terminal with a telephone line to each department chairman to help work out problems. 
The student will then move on to the second row of com­puters where the completed schedule is officially entered, printed out and handed to the student. 
The new procedure applies only to Saint Mary's students. There will be no change for Notre Dame students who wish to take classes at Sairat Mary's. 
Carol Haag, assistant to the registrar said, "We hope to get 35 students through every 10 minutes, baring no unforeseen problems." 


Damages 
continued from page 1 
"I'm not sure the student body wants to hear about this anymore," Daley added. 
Student Senator Steve Viz said he would support a plan to divide the expense. "If we are going to take responsibility, as we should, not just one group should take responsibility,'' said Viz. "It should be equally divided." 
Student Body Vice President Laurie Bink said she also would support a plan to divide the ex­pense. "My feeling is that someone has to pay for it," she said. There is no way to single out those directly responsible, she added. 
There may be some trouble, however, getting the student senate to agree to a plan, Bink said. "There have been some questions as to whether or not the whole student body should be responsible or not," she said. "There could be some 
~~~~~~oversy about it in the sen-
Junior Class President Ellen Nichols said she would also support such a plan. "It's 
really important that juniors 


~ -------~--. -----~--------~ 



Viewpoint
page 10 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 

Senior recalls four years of home games 
P.O. Box Q 
Make a commitment to stop DUI at NO 
Dear Students at Notre Dame: 
On December 6, almost one year ago, we received the phone call that is every families' nightmare. A call that ir­revocably altered our lives. Michael had been killed in an accident. Our strong, happy, vibrant son whom we last saw boarding a train, anxious to return to his friends at Notre Dame was lost to us. His dreams ended in a split second because of a needless act. A finality that no human power could reverse. We are still living the trauma and shock. 
It was a short time afterwards that the perceived cruelty that life goes on as usual revealed itself to us. Life will and must go on. Mike would want his family and friends to participate in the glory of life. In our lives the sun will never be as bright, but it will still shine. 
Doonesbury 
7l){)AY TH/3 5TANl?-OFF AT TH& H~THOOVER CIJI<­RU.TIONAL FACIL./TY WAS 
~ Bf?OKEN BY A PRA­~ IMTIC Pf?&-{)AIAJN 
:ATTACK. 
Our comfort is knowing how much Mike loved living and the positive affect his short life had on others. He was so happy at Notre Dame with his friends, studies, music and sports. He was proud to be a member of the Notre Dame family. For this reason, it hurts us deeply to have Mike referred to as a tragedy. His essence was the oppo­site. 
At his death we received hundreds of cards and letters from you at Notre Dame. We were aware of the tremen­dous outpouring of grief evidenced by the attendance at Mass for Mike. We have no doubt that any one of you would have made any commitment to have Mike back at Notre Dame or to help us in our pain. The former could never be but the latter can. 
As the first year since Mike's death approaches you, his fellow students, could take a strong committed position --never drink and drive and never remain passive when a fellow student 
tf/HAT IS HAPPENING NOlA/ IN-5/fJc 7Hl3 MINIMUM 5t30JRJ7Y 
COMPOUNfJ 15 ANYONf3.'S GU&5S, INQ..U[)IN& 7HIS 
REPOR.T&R'S / 
~ ,.,r-----.1 
attempts to drink and drive. Make the Notre Dame community as risk free from the use of alcohol as possible and carry the same commitment through­out your lives. In this way you will make a positive statement that Mike is not a tragic event receding in memory but an existing presence at Notre Dame. 


Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in 'liew­point. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.0. Box Q, View­point Department, Notre Dame, IN. 
46556 
Garry Trudeau 


, Quote of the Day 
"The fact that Notre Dame is considered one of the out­standing universities in the land still seems overshadowed by the memories of Rockne and Gipp." 
Sports Illustrated September 22, 1986 

You will make a commitment that a family never will receive an early mor­ning telephone call advising them their worst fear is reality. You will be telling us that our Mike's life and death was not just a tragedy. 
The family of Michael Cogswell 

Saturday will be the last time I watch a Notre Dame home football game as a student. 
Sigh. 
Gee, four football seasons do go by pretty quickly. It seems like yesterday that I was standing in Notre Dame Stadium watching the Irish trample gleefully over hapless Colorado. (Even though the Purdue game was officialy a home game, I do not consider travell­ing down to Indianapolis the same as walking across campus to the staduim.) Standing in section 33, doing all the "freshman" kind of things like the Wave and passing girls up towards the top row. 
Eric Bergamo 
20 seconds into the future 
This year my seat is in row 23, seat 8, and to the girls who said it was their seat, I will gladly show you my ticket (and watching this year's freshmen doing the same thing I did when I sat in their section.) 
And next year I'll probably come back for a game, but it will not be the same. Once you become the peculiar social class known as "alumni" stand­ing in Notre Dame Stadium to watch the Irish somehow changes. (Did you notice that most of them sit, not stand like we, throughout the game. For me the habit will be hard to break.) 
But before I pull on the ugly plaid pants of a Notre Dame graduate, I think back to the four seasons I have experi­enced. 
Standing in the rain for three con­secutive games freshman year. And watching the Irish drop games to Miami, Air Force and South Carolina. 
Later that same year the gloom would change to cheer as Notre Dame walloped Penn State 44-7. And the stam­pede onto the field at the gun to tear down the north goal post. The other goal post was saved from a similar fate by literally an army of law enforcement officials. 
Sophomore year saw Tim Brown return a kick-off for a touchdown against Michigan State (something we would see more of in the future), but the season ended on a sour note as LSU pulled out a last minute victory in Gerry Faust's last game. 
Then came Lou Holtz. 
I will always remember the moment of stunned silence after John Carney missed what would have been the win­ning field goal in a 24-23 loss to Mic­higan. Even though we had lost that day, Notre Dame was telling the college football world the Irish were back and have to be reckoned with. 
Junior year also brought another Brown kick return for a score (against Air Force) and a pasting of SMU. And then there was another down-to-the­wire game at the end the season. But Penn State escaped with their lives and we could take pride in knowing Notre Dame had fought the eventual national champions all the way. 
And, weB, this year has provided a wealth of memories. Tim Brown re­turning two punts for scores in the space of two minutes. Tony Rice rolling down the field. Michigan State's little "mistake" at the start of the game. The Irish defense shutting down Lorenzo White. The Irish ramming the ball down USC's throat for a 26-15 victory. Kent Graham's touchdown pass to Brown on the final play of the first half against Navy. Mark Green's 152-yard rushing effort in the comeback against Boston college. The team saluting the fans at the end of each game with upraised helments. 
Hopefully, there will be one more win against Alabama and the memories to go with that win. 

But there are memories other than those on the football field that I will remember. 
Sitting with my friends and experi­encing together the ups and downs of four years of Notre Dame football. Thanks for those memories. 
The guys from Moreau Seminary who sit up in the top rows of the stadium and their riotous cheers. (For example: Rip off their face and scare 'em with it). 
The great band shows over the four years and the spirit of the band. I will miss the playing of "Notre Dame, Our Mother" at the end of each game. 
The tailgaters and the atmosphere of the pre-game activities have also been a highlight of my four years. 
My parents will be here for this game (Dad's first one since he was at Notre Dame in the 1950s) and they'll see what I've been experiencing for the past four seasons. 
Saturdays in the fall won't be the same after this. 
Eric M. Bergamo is a senior govern­ment major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Editorial Board Operations Board



Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief. .. Kevm Becker Business Manager .. .. ..... Brian Murray Managing Editor .. .. ................ Mark Pankowski Advert1sing Design Manager ..... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor .. . ............... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager... . Melinda Chapleau News Editor .. . J1m Alley Production Manager... .. ........... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor. ... . . . .. .. .. .. . . Chns Murphy ProJects Manager..... Mark MclaughlinThe Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor .. Denn1s Corngan Systems Manager . Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor . . . . . M1chael Naughton Controller ....... Tracy Sch1ndele
the administration of either Institution. The News is reponed as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor . Sandy Cenmele Graph1c Arts Manager..... .. Laura Stanton
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Editor. . Jim Carroll
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, 1s encouraged. 
---~-----~------------------~-----­




Brown! 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN the office to listen in. Knowing Sports Editor the the demands on Brown's time, he figures this is the best 
It's a typical day for Irish way to get an interview. flanker Tim Brown. Between It seems that these days, classes and practice, it's time everybody wants to talk to Tim for his daily version of Meet the Brown -the leading candidate Press. to win this year's Reisman 
"I've got an interview every Trophy. Through eight games day," Brown says as he enters this season, Brown has the office of Notre Dame asso­wracked up 1,415 yards of all­ciate sports information direc­purpose yardage, including a tor, John Heisler. "I've got one career-high 294 last week of these about once a week." against Boston College. It was 
"One of these" is a telecon­a performance which more ference arranged to relieve than likely engraved his name some of the burden and on the Reisman. His average demands on his time. As he 176.9 yards per game ranks settles in behind Heisler's desk, second in the nation behind he laughs as Heisler scribbles Eric Wilkerson of Kent State, down the names of 14 reporters who is averaging 199.6. who've called. Most of them Brown's total would be this week are from Alabama, higher if some returns and but reporters from Columbus, receptions (78-yarder against Ga., Detroit, Chicago and Fort Air Force, 11-yarder against Wayne, Ind., are also on the 
see BROWN, page 2

line. Another reporter sits in 

Years that were Devine 
So far, the roll call of head coaches for the Notre Dame football team has read like a Who's Who of college football: Rockne. Layden. Leahy. Parseg­hian. And after Ara decided that he had had enough, yet another great stepped to the fore -Dan Devine. 
During the years 1964-1974, Ara Parseghian had won enough acclaim in South Bend to warrant his nomination for sainthood, and his decision to retire from coaching came as quite a shock to Irish faith­ful everywhere. Who would resume the duties of the most visible, many times most second-guessed college coach in the country? 
Once again, legend followed legend on the Irish sidelines. Dan Devine, already an accomplished college head coach at Arizona State and Missouri 020-40-8 over 16 seasons), and head coach of the NFL's Green Bay Packers from 1971-1974, took the job with quite a bit of momentum in his favor. Par­seghian's Irish had won two straight post-season bowl games, and Devine was the recipient of the ninth ranking in the opening AP poll of 1975 without coaching a down. 
His squad finished a respectable 8-3 in 1975 and the following year, with the same record, Devine took the Irish to Number 15 in AP and the Gator Bowl against 20th-ranked Penn State. Not exactly the Granddaddy of them All, but Notre Dame prevailed, 20-9, behind the 102-yard, two-touchdown performance of tailback Al Hunter. The victory propelled the Irish to 12th in the final AP poll and planted hopes for even better things to come the following year. 
Those hopes sprouted into bona fide celebration in 1977. After surviving the initial test of the season by downing seventh-ranked Pittsburgh 19-9 on 
·­

opening day, Notre Dame was stunned by the Rebels of Ole Miss, 20-13, in Jackson. That loss, the only one ever dealt to the Irish by Mississippi, toppled Notre Dame to nth in the nation, and only the diehards held out for a national championship. 
But the Irish rebounded, capturing their final nine regular season games in convincing fashion, includ­ing a 49-19 burial of fifth-ranked USC. Notre Dame took over that spot at the end of the year and was assigned to play the number-one Texas Longhorns at the Cotton Bowl in Dallas for the national cham­pionship. Behind future pros Joe Montana, Ross Browner, Ken MacAfee, Dave Waymer and Bob 

100 Years of Irish Football 
PETE SKIKO 


Golic, the Irish routed Texas, 38-10. Notre Dame converted five of the Longhorns' six turnovers into scores, three of them touchdowns by running back Vagas Ferguson, to spoil Fred Akers' first year with Texas and bring yet another national champi­onship, the 16th and latest, to South Bend. 
In 1978, the Irish had finished 8-3 and were coming off a heartbreaking, last-second loss to USC when they headed back to Dallas to play Houston in the Cotton Bowl. The temperature was a Cotton 
see DEVINE, page 2 
page 2 The Observer Weekend Edition. November 13-14. 1987 
"Even on offense there are (Syracuse's) Don McPherson times when I'm having a big is really coming on." 
Brown 
impact on the game, and I'm How much do you know about continued from page 1 not even touching the ball." Johnny Rodgers, the last 
One of the areas he has the receiver to win the Reisman USC) hadn't been called back. biggest impact, pun intended, Trophy out of Nebraska in On the phone, someone asks if is his blocking. Most receivers 1972? the threat of a penalty is in the are content to run down field, "I've heard a lot about him," back of his mind when making screen off a defensive back and Brown answers. "When I went a return. Or even if he would let the ballcarrier read off of to Nebraska on my recruiting prefer his blockers not to block. that -but not Brown. Brown trip, they showed me a whole 
"That's something that you bowls them over. film of him because they said would like to do, but it's almost "Not talking about the kick­I reminded them of him. I've impossible to do," he said. "On off returns and punt returns, I heard that I'm primarily the kickoff returns you have to think blocking is a lot of fun," same kind of athlete as him, have people blocking for you Brown says. "If you're out with quickness and things like because they have so much there one-on-one with a man that. But that was 15 years ago time to get down there that they and you keep him from making and it's hard to tell." can really zero in on you. a tackle, that should give you What about Alabama's Reis­Whereas on punt returns a little pride and sense of ac­man candidate? they're there so quick that you complishment. You've done "Bobby Humphrey," Brown can get by them. your job and allowed your tail­immediately replies. "I met 
"The problem with our back to score a touchdown or him this summer in Phoenix. returns is we have a lot of make a first down." He's a nice kid. We got along people cross kicking and stuff Heck, the guy can even pretty well. Bobby's a good like that. Sometimes it puts tackle. Witness his stop of BC's guy, and he's hell of a tailback. (the blockers) in a position Ed Duran after an intercep­Our defense is scheming to stop where they clip people. Then tion. him. There's been a few things when I'm back there throwing "I played free safety in high said that they don't want him moves on people and going di­school," Brown laughs when to come in here, have a good rections I'm really not sup­that question comes up. "But I game and knock me out of the posed to be going, it doesn't didn't make too many tackles race." make things any better." like that. I usually let the guys Eventually, talk turns to 
Just Brown's presence in a run by me and just go catch Brown's relationship with his game is enough to alter it. them -jump on their backs." mother, who hasn't seen him Teams, most notably USC, About the only thing he hasn't play in person. It's a fairly won't kick to him. They'd done in his career, is throw the well-known story, but the rather give the Irish the ball at ball. Don't be surprised if on reporters still want to talk midfield than see the backs of one of his carries he pulls up about it. Brown's heels as they cross the and heaves it deep. It'd prob­"She heard a lot bad things endzone. When he goes deep, ably go for a touchdown. about football players -'How Of course, Brown gave his the head a couple of times and he can normally expect an es­Every writer, as would be ex­they always get involved with mother some reasons for worry things like that. I was all cort of at least two, and some­pected, wants Brown's opinion drugs' and things like that," while he was growing up in Dal­right.'' times three, defenders. In the on the Reisman Trophy (Brown Brown says. "I tried to con­las. "I didn't even know what a November 9 issue of The Sport­says it is asked every time), vince her that my reasons for "Well we play football a little Reisman Trophy was really ing News, Mike Downey called and today is no exception, es­getting in football were that I differently down there," when I was a junior in high Brown ''the greatest college pecially since the day before really enjoyed the sport and not Brown explains. "We played school. My only goal was to football player I've never USA Today ran a poll of Reis­because of the publicity. After tackle in the street, but the reach college. That's all I seen" because of the opposi­man Trophy voters which a while, it wasn't really a prob­rules were that you only got hit wanted to do was to get there. tions reluctance to see him do showed him far ahead in the lem. She realized that I really if you ran on the sidelines. That I made it." anything. race. loved the game. way you kept everybody in the Eventually, the reporters 
"The possibility of me "It's nice that people think "She'll watch on television, middle of the field. We had such run out questions after 35 scoring from anywhere on the I'm so far ahead," Brown says. up until the time I get hit that things as car timeouts when the minutes. The reporter who was field is a threat for the "But it's not over yet. We've is. I told someone the other day cars came by. sitting in thanks him for his defense," Brown tells someone still got three games to play. that's why I run the way I do. "It was fun. It was dangerous time, but Brown isn't done yet. on the phone. "They have to be What about the competition? I want my mom to watch the at times, but that was part of A crew from Cable News Net­really alert about what they're "(Florida's) Emmit Smith's whole game. If I get hit lhard, it. Mom didn't like that, either. work is waiting in a room down doing. having a good year, and she has to turn the channel." I came home with bumps on the hall. 

Devine 
continued from page 1 
Bowl-record low 20 degrees and Notre Dame was just as cold in the early going on New Year's Day. After bolting out to a 12-0 lead, the Irish were completely stymied by the Houston defense until midway through the fourth quarter. The Cougars scored 34 unanswered points to lead 34-12, and the Irish looked like they would end their Cotton Bowl winning str~ak at one. 
But then the miracle began. To start was has been called by many the greatest comeback in Notre Dame history, freshman reserve running back Tony Bel­den blocked a punt and Steve Cichy ran it in 33 yards for a touchdown. Devine, looking ahead, went for two on the con­version and got it on a pass from Joe Montana to Vagas Ferguson. Three minutes later, after forcing another punt, Notre Dame scored again when Joe Montana swept left end for two yards and a touchdown. Never one to go for the tie, Devine again went for two, and again it paid off when Montana threw to Kris Haines to narrow the score to 34-28. 
The Irish were rolling. They forced another punt and took over deep in their own territory with just over two minutes left. But then, after picking up 16 yards on a scramble, Montana fumbled and the ball was recovered by Houston. It looked like the Cougars would be able to run out the clock, but Houston ended up facing fourth and one from their own 29 with 35 seconds left. Figuring that they could get one yard and not wanting to risk a big punt return, Houston went for it and the Irish defense held, turning the ball over to Montana and the offense with 28 seconds left. 
Montana threw to Haines for a gain of 10 and then scrambled for 11 more. With seven seconds left, Montana, who had already thrown four intercep­tions, threw behind Haines in the corner of the endzone. Two seconds remained, enough for one more play. Montana ran the exact same play and hit Haines for the game-tying eight-yard score. Joe Unis kicked the extra point to give Nofre Dame the hard-earned win. 
Devine's Irish went 7-4 in 1979 in an up-and-down year. Notre Dame knocked off sixth-ranked Michigan in Ann Arbor to open the season, lost by six at 17th­ranked Purdue, destroyed number-seven Michigan State, 27-3, at home, lost by 19 at fourth-ranked USC, won two more home games, and then got obliterated by unranked Tennessee, 40-18, in front of 86,500 in Neyland Stadium. Notre Dame finished the season unranked. 
Devine announced that he would retire at the end of the 1980 season and he made his last year one of his best as the Irish compiled a 9-1-1 record and Top Ten status throughout the season. But once again, USC rained on Notre Dame's parade when the 17th-ranked Trojans upset the Irish, then number two, 20-3, in Los An­geles. The Irish couldn't recover in the Sugar Bowl, where they met top-ranked Georgia. Although Notre Dame outgained the Bulldogs 328-127, they fell, 17-10. 
Devine finished his Notre Dame coaching stint with a 53­16-1 mark (.764), and a place in hallowed hall of great Notre Dame coaches. 



--------------M. •'">'':" --.-..... ,. 

Weekend Edition. November 13-14. 1987 · The Observer p<~ge 3 



The Game 
---------------------·-·--~-.------·---------.-.-.:..-·--'--~ ....... __.._...'-"-......._ ....._,_ -"·"--""""'""-·········"' 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With the end of Notre Dame's home 
schedule comes the onset of the big 
three, the part of the season that every­
one has been looking forward to, yet 
still having nightmares about. 
The first of the dangerous trio, Ala­
bama (11th AP, lOth UPIJ, comes into 
Notre Dame Stadium Saturday (2:45 
EST> in full stride. The Crimson Tide 
has notched victories at Penn State and 
against Tennessee. Last week, the Tide 
added the most impressive win to the 
list by thumping LSU 22-10. That win 
left Irish head coach Lou Holtz very 
impressed. 
"I think Alabama right now is playing like one of the top five teams in the country," he said. "They really have momentum going and they're playing very well." 
These two teams have met only five times, but those few games have in­cluded games legends are made of, in­cluding two Notre Dame wins over top­ranked Alabama squads in the '73 Sugar Bowl and the '75 Orange Bowl. 
But last year's meeting was not a classic. Alabama's Greg Richardson returned a punt 66 yards for a touch­down and Albert Bell took in a Mike Shula pass and raced in for a 52-yard touchdown to spark a 28-10 Tide victory. The Irish were dominated in that game more than at any other time last season. 
New Alabama head coach Bill Curry, who replaced Ray Perkins, has his team fighting for the Southeastern Con­ference's Sugar Bowl bid and fighting to do the almost unheard of, overlook Notre Dame. 
"It's probably the first time in history that has been a concern, but it's a pos­sibility," said Curry. "This game is a great challenge coming on the heels of several challenges for our team." 
And for the Irish, it's just the begin­ning of the season's greates challenge. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Alabama's defense 
The Notre Dame offensive attack has been less-than-imaginative, but no less than spectacular. The Irish rushing game has totaled 2,125 yards this season, already more than last year's mark of 2,083, and has averaged over 353 yards in the last four games. With that surge, the Irish now rank 11th in the nation in rushing offense. 
Leading the way is Mark Green. The junior tailback continues to assert him­self as a potent rusher. He has two con­secutive 100-yard games coming into the game, and his 629 yards for the season has already surpassed his team­leading total for last season. 
Last week, the Holtz called on his big offensive line to erase Boston College's 17-6 lead, and they responded. Holtz isn't so sure that his horses can pull off the same trick against Alabama. 
"There's just no way in the world we're going to control the football against Alabama," Holtz said. "We're going to have a lot of no-gain plays. That's just the nature of the way they play." 
Despite Holtz' apparent worries, ex­pect the well-stocked crew of Irish rus­hers, fullbacks Anthony Johnson (262 yards) and Braxston Banks (169 yards) along with halfbacks Ricky Watters (261 yards) and Tony Brooks (206 yards), to have plenty of chances to prove Holtz wrong. 
The man in charge of keeping the Irish from running wild is inside linebackers coach Don Lindsey, who served as defensive coordinator under Holtz at Arkansas for three years. 
"I think he's a genius," Holtz said. "One thing he's always going to do is he's going to have four or five things that you aren't ready for and he plays it a little different than everybody, and he's going to take your four or five best plays and he's going to stuff 'em." 
Alabama also strips 'em and steals _ 'em. The Tide defense has caused 33 turnovers, which also makes Holtz wary of turning to the pass. 
"I know we're going to have to throw the football and yet I don't think we can throw it on Alabama," Holtz said. "We're averaging one interception every nine throws, and you just can't do that." 
The most dangerous man on the 'Barna defense is outside linebacker Derrick Thomas. The 6-4, 222-pound junior has registered 14 sacks, has caused seven fumbles and also has 50 tackles. Sophomore nose tackle Willie Wyatt, 6-1, 255 pounds, leads the defense with 80 tackles. 
The secondary has been a ball­hawking unit. Cornerback John Mag­num has four interceptions and con­verted tailback Gene Jelks has three. 
The punting game matches Tim Brown, who averages 12.9 yards per return, against the Alabama coverage team that has allowed an average of just 4.6 yards per game. 

Alabama's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense 

Lost in the Brown Heisman Trophy shuffle is Alabama's offensive weapon, tailback Bobby Humphrey. The junior is the team leader in rushing yards (1,078), receptions (18 for 159 yards), kickoff returns (nine for 25.3 avg.) and scoring (78 points). Perhaps the most important part of the Tide offense is quarterback Jeff Dunn. The redshirt freshman, who has started since since the Tide's 41-22 win over Tennessee, has hit on 29 of 60 passes for 429 yards. He is under the guidance of Rip Scherer, who played quarterback under Holtz at William & Mary. But Curry and Holtz agree Dunn's on-field presence and leadership are his main attributes. 
"Dunn is such a leader," Holtz said. "You can just tell he has command when he walks on the field." 
"He's a gritty guy, who doesn't look pretty, but he'll do the job for you," said Curry. "He brings toughness and leadership to the position. He makes up in grit what he lacks in polish." 
A big problem for Alabama may be the injury to senior guard Bill Condon, who was on crutches with a leg injury until Tuesday. If he is unable to start, 6-4, 290-pound John Fruhmorgen will move inside from his backup right tackle slot. 
On the Irish defensive front, injuries again have made their presence felt. Marty Lippincott will be out for at least two weeks with a knee injury after just recently moving to the defensive line and Bryan Flannery may also be out for two weeks, continuing the revolving door at defensive tackle. 
On the promising side, Corny Southall is listed as "questionable" for the game. Southall was injured at Pit­tsburgh game and could possibly see action for the first time since then. 
The defense held Boston College to 94 yards rushing, the fourth time an Irish opponent has been held under 100 yards rushing this season. 
Inside linebacker Ned Bolcar con­tinues to lead the Irish with 81 tackles. 
While Holtz expressed concern over the lack of dominance his defense has displayed recently, he said he liked its performance in clutch situations. 
"Our defense has not been dominat­ing people so we can't afford to turn the ball over," Holtz said. "But I have been pleased with our performance when we have. We got the ball right back on a crucial drive against USC and also caused a fumble right after an interception against Boston College." 
-
-
-,
. -~ 



page 4 The Observer Weekend Edition. November 13-14. 1987 
The Tale of the Tape 
TEAM STAnSnCS NO OPP PASSING NO co PCT INT YDS TO TEAM STATISTICS UA OPP PASSING NO co PCT INT YDS TO RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 3247 2400 Rice 43 18 .419 3 370 0 TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 3066 2680 Dunn 60 29 .483 4 429 3 Humphrey 202 1078 5.3 11 83 Total Plays 603 513 K. Graham 19 15 .789 2 244 1 Total Plays 614 607 Smi1h 57 31 .544 1 304 3 K. Goode 58 283 4.9 1 19 Yards per Play 5.4 4.7 Belles 1 1 1.000 0 27 0 Yards per Play 5.0.0 4.4 Sutton 49 22 .449 3 313 4 Wright 52 227 4.4 3 21 Yards per Game 405.9 300.0 Andrysiak 58 30 .517 3 480 2 Yards per Game 340.7 297.8 UA 168 84 .500 81150 10 Sutton 17 71 4.2 1 17 
PENAL TIES· YARDS 47-419 30-225 NO 121 64 .529 8 1121 3 PENAL TIES-YARDS 58-475 37-320 OPP 226 122 .540 17 1554 4 Allen 23 68 7.6 0 9 FUMBLE8-LOST 12-5 21-12 OPP 201 95 .473 10 1315 8 FUMBLES-LOST 18-9 27-16 ALABAMA 446 2133 4.3 1783 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 182 135 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 158 152 OPPONENTS 381 1441 3.0 10 
By Rushing 134 54 Brown 28 615 21.9 3 57 By Rushing 98 68 -­By Passing 44 68 Green 12 93 7.8 0 21 By Passing 53 73 Schedules By Penahy 4 13 Watters 5 53 10.6 0 28 By Penalty 7 11 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 113·50 109-44 Johnson 3 98 32.7 0 51 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 132-55 128-46 Percentage 44 40 Heck 3 47 15.7 0 26 Percentage 42 36 Notre Dame (6-1) Alabama (7-2) POSSESSION TIME 268:10 211:50 NOTRE DAME 64 1122 17.5 L 57 POSSESSION TIME 291:26 248:54 d. Michigan, 26-7 d. S. MISSISSIPPI, 38-6 Minutes per Game 33:31 26:29 OPPONENTS 95 1315 13.8 8 57 Minutes per Game 32:23 27:37 d. MICHIGAN ST., 31-8 d. Penn State, 24-13 
d. Purdue, 44-20 I. FLORIDA, 23-14 SCORING TO PAR-PAS FG TP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG I. Pitt, 30-22 d. Vanderbilt, 3D-23 Gradel 0 27-27 o-o o tt-14 60 Green 109 629 5 5.9 33 Humphrey 18 159 8.8 2 43 d. Air Force, 35-14 d. S.W. LOUISIANA, 38-10 Johnson 10 o-o o-oo o-o 60 Johnson 61 262 4.3 10 20 Whitehurst 16 266 16.6 2 57 d. USC, 26-15 I. Memphis St., 13-10 Brown 7 o-o 1-1 0 o-o 44 Watters 58 261 4.5 4 18 Stafford 12 186 15.5 1 40 d. NAVY, 56-13 d. TENNESSEE, 41·22 Green 5 o-o o-oo o-o 30 Rice 57 254 4.5 4 32 Cross 12 111 9.3 0 15 d. BOSTON COLLEGE, 32-25 d. MISSISSIPPI ST., 21·18 Rice 4 o-o o-o o o-o 24 Brooks 44 206 4.7 1 16 K. Goode 6 38 4.2 0 12 Nov. 14-ALABAMA d. Louisiana St., 22-10 NO 34 29·29 1·5 2 11-14272 NOTRE DAME 482 2125 4.4 27 33 ALABAMA 84 1150 6.8 10 90 Nov. 21 -at Penn St. Nov. 14-at Notre Dame OPP 16 tD-14 4-40 6-8132 OPPONENTS 312 1085 3.5 8 62 OPPONENTS 122 1554 6.9 4 0 Nov. 28 -at Miami Nov. 28 -at Auburn 
Irish Offense v. Crimson Tide Defense Irish Defense v. Crimson Tide Offense 
--~· NOTRE DAME OFFENSE ALABAMA DEFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE ALABAMA OFFENSE PQS NO PLAYER HT WT CL OLB 55 Derrick Thomas 6-4 222 Jr. OLB 48 Cedric Figaro 6·2 246 Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL SE 83 Reggie Ward 5-10 178 Sr. 99 David Lenior 6-5 256 Fr. 43 Rod West 6-3 226 So. SE 82 Clay Whitehurst 6-1 180 Sr. 
15 Pat Terrell 6·0 192 So. DT 51 Tommy Cole 6-2 250 Jr. LT 87 Tom Gorman 6-6 260 Jr. 86 Angelo Stafford 6-6 213 Sr. TE 88 Andy lieck 6-6 248 Jr. 95 Thomas Rayam 6-7 279 So. 95 Ted FitzGerald 6-5 265 So. TE 85 Howard Cross 6-6 232 Jr. 85 Frank Jacobs 6-5 225 Fr. NG 98 Willie Wyatt 6-1 255 So. NT 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 246 Sr. 91 Craig Epps 6-4 220 Sr. LT 76 Tom Rehder 6-7 263 Sr. 92 Darryl Whetsone 6-4 247 Jr. 86 Rich Morrison 6-3 248 Jr. LT 68 Jeff Bentley 6-5 273 Sr. 
Dom Prinzivalli 6-5 263 Jr.
66 DT 89 Phillip Brown 6-3 221 Sr. RT 93 Jeff Kunz 6·6 256 Sr. 75 Danny Cash 6-5 270 So. 
LG 65 Tom Freeman 6-4 265 Sr. 
94 Anthony Smith 6-5 247 Jr. 90 Jeffl>.lm 6-6 242 So. LG 74 Larry Rose 6-4 273 Jr. 
56 Ted Healy 6-4 243 So. 63
ILB 94 Robert Stewart s-o 246 Fr. OLB 48 Cedric Figaro 6-2 246 Sr. Andy Anderson 6-5 6 5 c 51 Chuck Lanza 6-2 270 Sr. 96 Willie Shephard 6-2 209 Jr. 7 Andre Jones 6-4 220 FR. c 53 Mike Zuga 6·2 236 So. 
58 Mike Heldt 6-4 265 Fr. ILB 56 Greg Gilbert 6-2 205 Jr. ILB 34 Wes Pritchett 6·5 234 Sr. 66 Roger Shultz 6-2 250 Fr. RG 62 Jeff Pearson 6-2 250 So. 47 Vantriese Davis 5-11 207 So. 45 Greg Harris 6-5 195 Sr. RG 77 Bill Condon 6-3 265 Sr. 71 Dean Brown 6-2 273 So. OLB 57 Randy Rockwell 6-3 207 SR. 65 Trent Patterson 5-11 297 Fr. RT 73 Byron Spruell 6-4 279 Sr. 59 George Bethune 6-5 218 Jr. ILB 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 235 Jr. RT 70 Terrill Chatman 6-4 287 Fr. 
61 Pete Rokich 6-7 262 Sr. ss 42 Lee Ozmlnt 6·5 201 So. 49 John Foley 6-3 228 So. 76 John Fruhmor-6-6 290 Jr. OB 9 Tony Rice 6-2 190 So. 16 John Davis 5-11 175 Fr. LCB 25 Marv Spence 5-10 179 Sr. gen 17 Kent Graham 6-5 225 Fr. FS 27 Kermit 6-2 200 Jr. 28 Chris Kvochak 6-1 182 Sr. FL 88 Marco Battle 6·0 170 So. FB 22 Anthony 6-o 216 So. Kendrick 2 Pierre Goode 5-11 175 So. 
Johnson 39 Mike Smith 5-11 169 Fr. FS 5 Brandy Wella 6·1 186 Sr. QB 7 Jeff Dunn 6-1 200 Fr. 39 Braxston Banks 6-2 207 So. CB 29 John Mangum 5·11 169 Fr. 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 214 Fr. 10 Vince Sutton 6-0 204 Jr. TB 24 Mark Green 5-11 181 Jr. 38 Vernon Wilkin-6-1 186 Sr. ss 27 George Streeter 6-2 200 Jr. FB 46 Doug Allen 5-9 200 Sr. 
12 Ricky Watters 6-3 180 Fr. son 13 Pat Eilers 5-11 198 Jr. 40 Bo Wright 6-1 209 Sr. FL 81 Tim Brown 6-0 195 Sr. CB CB Gene Jelks 5-11 174 Jr. RCB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 177 So. TB 26 Bobby 6·1 187 Jr. 21 Aaron Robb 6-1 190 Jr. 41 Shannon Felder 5-11 178 Jr. 32 D'Juan Fran-5-1 1 182 Jr. Humphrey p 19 Vince Phelan 5-10 170 Sr. cisco 35 Kerry Goode 6-1 200 Jr 
' 
26 Humphrey 35 Goode 27 ' Kendrick 
39 Smith 
'46AIIen
1' 
42 Ozmlnt 40 Wright 
16 Davis 88 Battle 7 Dunn 2 Goode
2!1ks 
10 Sutton

57 Rockwell 56!rt 47 Davis 
41 Felder
29 ' Mangum ,92 ' Bethune 
38 Wilkinson 
' ,-,

34 Stewart 
55 Thomaa 96 Shephard 
99 Lenior 
'
85 Cross 70 Chatman 77 Condon 53 Zuga 74 Rose 68 Bentley 82 Whitehurst89 Brown 98 Wyatt 51! 
91 Epps 76 Fruhmorgen 65 Patterson 66 Shultz 63 Anderson 75 Cash 86 Stafford94 Smith 92 Whetstone 95 Rayam
' ' ' ' ' '

' ,,,, 
' 
87 Gorman 94 Griffin 93 Kunz76 Rehder 65 Freeman 51 Lanza 62 Pea-rson 73 Spruell 88 Heck83 ' Ward 95 FitzGerald 86 Morrison 90 Aim 38 Gordon66 Prinzivalli 56 Healy 58 Heldt 71 Brown 61 Rokich 85 Jacobs 48 ' Figaro15 Terrell 
' ' ' 
' 
30 Slams 9 Rice 7 Jones 
81 Brown 
25 Spence 17 K. Graham 
21 Robb 
28 Kvochak 29 ' Smagala 32 Francisco 
' 
' 
34 Pritchett 47 Bolcar 45 Harris 49 Foley
22 Johnson 
' ' 
61 Banks 
27 Streeter 5Wella 
13 Eilers

24 Green 1 Lyght 12 Watters 
' 


- PEERLESS  PROGNOSTICATORS  
enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS.  Jane Shea SMC Sports Ed. 43-38-3 .531 (last week: 3-10·1)  Marty Strasen Asst. Sports Ed. 43-38-3 .531 (last week: 7-6-1)  Dennis Corrigan Sports Editor 42-29-3 .519 (last week: 5-B-1)  Pete Gegen Sports Writer 42-39-3 .519 (last week: 4-9-1)  Rick Rletbrock Asst. Sports Ed. 36-45-3 .444 (last week: 6-7-1)  Art Lambert Guest Celebrity 38-43-3 .469 (last week: 3-10-1)  Rich Siegler Random Student 42-39-3 .519 (last week: 6-7-1)  
.... -­ CLEMSON over Maryland by 13.5 SYRACUSE over Boston College by 14.5 S. Carolina over Wake Forest by 18 MICHIGAN ST. over Indiana by 7.5 GEORGIA over Auburn by 1.5 TENNESSEE over Mississippi by 13 FLORIDA over Kentucky by 13 OKLAHOMA over Missouri by 34 TEXAS A&M over Arkansas by 6  Tigers Orangemen Gamecocks Hoosiers Tigers Volunteers Gators Sooners Aggies  Tigers Eagles Gamecocks Spartans Tigers Volunteers Gators Sooners Aggies  Tigers Orangemen Gamecocks Hoosiers Tigers Volunteers Gators Sooners Aggies  Terrapins Eagles Deacons Spartans Tigers Volunteers Gators Tigers Aggies  Terrapins Eagles Deacons Spartans Bulldogs Volunteers Gators Sooners Razorbacks  Tigers Eagles Deacons Spartans Tigers Volunteers Gators Tigers Aggies  Tigers Eagles Deacons Spartans Tigers Volunteers Gators Tigers Razorbacks  


UCLA over Washington by 14.5 Bruins Huskies Bruins Huskies Huskies Huskies Bruins Nittany Lions Nittany Lions
Penn State EVEN with PITTSBURGH Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes
MIAMI (FLA.) over Va. Tech by 38 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes LOUISIANA ST. over Miss. St. by 24 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Bulldogs NOTRE DAME over Alabama by 7 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Crimson Tide Irish 

Accent
page 11 
1Must-see movies 
•
VAGABONDE. 
Frl Annenberg Auditorium 7:.30 and 9:45 p.m. 
This road picture makes an austerely beautiful picture in its somber and unexpected style. A young woman hitchhikes aimlessly through the unearthly winter landscape ofsouthern France surviving on hand­outs and ephemeral llasons with gas station attendants, field workers, and the occasional bemused college professor. 
THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS FrVSat Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:.:50, and 12 p.m. 
Timothy Dalton's debut as masterspy James Bond. In an effort to conform to today's "new morality" Bond's sexual adventures have been toned down, forcing the the playboy of old to restrict his attentions to only one woman, a Russian cellist (Maryam D'Abo). The plot revolves around Bond's attempt to aid a top Russian military strategist defect. 
RAGING BULL Man Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. 
Robert De Nlro won an Oscar for his portrayal of middleweight boxing champ Jake La Motta, whose unrelenting pursuit of the champion­ship destroyed hls personal life. Martin Scorsese directs the film, complimenting De Nlro's performance with stunning black and white cinematography and a haunting score. 
LETTER FROM AN UNKNOWN WOMAN 
Man Annenberg Auditorium 9:15p.m. 
Joan ·Fontaine stars In Max Ophuls finest American film. Ophuls uses all his continental flair for cinematic opulence in presenting this story of a passionate woman who reveals her lifelong love for the concert pianist (played by Lolus Jourdan) who had fathered her child years before, but who cannot now even remember her name. 
FOOTLOOSE Tues Annenberg Auditorium 7 and 9 p.m. 
A toe-tapping. finger-snapping youth musical, "footloose" stars Kevin Bacon as the new boy from the big city who has trouble adjusting to rural small town life, especially the stuffy law which prevents the high school from giving dances. John Lithgow gives a 
tremedous performance as a troubled fire-and-brimstone preacher, as do the rest of the fine ensemble cast. 
WEEDS Scottsdale Mall Cinemas 
Nick Nolte stars as Lee Umstetter, a convict in San Quentin up for life with no possibility of parole. As the leader of the Barbed Wire Theatre acting troupe. Lee writes a play which addresses the realities of life within "the cage." The troupe, composed entirely of former convicts, criss-crosses the country with their play, hoping for an eventual chance to take the play to New York. 
Local Theater Guide 
0000000000000000000 
UNIVI':RSITY PARK EAST 
6424 Grape Rd 277-7.3.36 
"DEATH WISH IV" "LESS THAN ZI':RO" "PRINCE Of DARKNI':SS" "MADI': IN HEAVI':N" "RUNNING MAN" "Dr:ADLINI':" 

UNIVI':RSITY PARK WI':ST 
University Park Mail 277-0441 
"FATAL Br:AUTY" "RUSKIES" "HI':LLO AGAIN" FORUM CINEMAS 
North Village Mall 277-1522 
"THI': PRINCI':SS BRIDI':" "CROSS MY HEART" "HIDING OUT" 
SCOTTSDALE CJNI':MAS 
I 15.3 Scottsdale Mail 291-458.:5 
"MADE IN Hr:AVI':N" "THE HIDDEN" "WEEDS" 
100 CI':NTER CINI':MA 
100 Center St. 259-0414 
"BEVI':RLY HILLS COP II" "DIRTY DANCING" 
A pep rally for the football 
team will be held In Stepan 
Center at 7 p.m. tonight. 
The Senior Class is holding a block party for all members of the class of '88 from 4 to 6 
p.m. this afternoon at the J.A.C.C. 
The Bethel College and Univer­sity of Notre Dame production of "The Patriots" continues tonight and tomorrow night In Washington Hall. The Pulitzer Prize winning play is being presented In celebration of the Bicentennial of the U.S. Consti­tution. 
The NO-Alabama game Is scheduled to begin at 2:45 
p.m. Saturday In Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra will give Its Fall Con­Sunday at 4 p.m. In Wash­ngton Hall. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
Local 


ss 
Comedian Sam Kinnison will per­form tonight at the Morris Civic Auditorium. Karl LaBove will open the show at 8 p.m. Tickets are $15.50 and are still available at the box office. 
The Friends of the Snlte Museum of Art will hold a reception Sun­day from 2 to 4 p.m. in honor of the openings of the Annual Fac­ulty Exhibit and Bill Kremer: New Work. 
The IUSB Philharmonic Or­chestra will be in concert tonight and tomorrow night at 8: 15 p.m. in the main auditorium of Northside Hall on the IUSB campus. Selections from Hand­el, Mendelssohn, and Beethoven will be presented. 
The Northern Indiana Historical Society will hold a Pre-Holiday Sale in their gift shop this Sunday from 12 to 4 p.m. Replicas of 19th century antiques and Christmas Items will be featured. 

SACRI':D Hr:ART SUNDAY MASS SCHI':DULI': 
9 a.m. Fr. James Connelly, Celebrant 10:.30 a.m. Fr. David Tyson 
12:15 p.m. Fr. Andre Leveille 
7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady Chapel 
WI':I':KDAY MAIN CHURCH SCHI':DULI': 
11::50 a.m. Monday thr Friday 5:15p.m. Monday thr Friday 
SAINT MARY'S SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULe 
10:.:50 a.m. Church of 
Loretto 4:.:50 p.m. LeMans Chapel 7 p.m. Holy Cross Chapel 10 p.m. Regina Chapel 5 p.m. Vespers-Church of 
Loretto 

TOWN AND COUNTRY 
2.340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090 
"SUSPECT" "BABY BOOM" "FATAL ATTRACTION" 

Rr:ADY Ill CINEMAS 
420 E. Main St. Niles, Michigan 68.3-1112 
"NO MAN'S LAND" "HELLRAISER" "SURRENDER" "THI': UNTOUCHABLES" "THI': MONSTER SQUAD'' 
1 ChitChat 
• 
• 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL 
I 
accent writer n an interview appearing in this week's Issue of TV Guide "Cheers" star Ted Dan· son says of his ex-co-star Shel­ley Long "I can't think of one thing about Shelley that wasn't negative. Of course, Shelley is difficult." ... Berke Breathed's comic strip, "Bloom County" has been dropped by the 19 Donrey Media Group papers. After the word "sucks" was used In the cartoon last Friday 16 of the papers voted to dis­continue the strip; after the second use of the word two days ago. the vote was unani­mous.... Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy, who co­starred in "Pretty in Pink." began flimlng the feature fllm "Fresh Horses" this week In Cincinnati. The movie, based on an off-Broadway play, is director David Anspaugh's first production since his 1986 hit "Hoosiers." . . . Frank Sinatra is off the United Nations out­cast entertainers list because he finally pledged not to ap­pear in South Africa while the country persists with its apar­theid system. Sinatra had been 

a frequent visitor to Sun City, a South African gambling. enter­taining. and sports center.... Next Monday on the CBS com­edy "Newhart" Stephanie Van­derkeilen (Julia Duffy) and MI­chael Harris (Peter Scolari) will be walking down the aisle. , .. Wedding bells will also ring on "Dallas" this season, as Jenna (Priscilla Beaulieu Presley) marries Ray (Steve Kanaly) In the Dec. 4 episode. . . . Bar­bara Walters will begin her 12th season of ABC specials on Dec. 8 with a show in which she Interviews Eddie Murphy, Sean Connery and Don Johnson. . . . Elizabeth Taylor made the ultimate sacrifice in order to get a part In Franco Zefferelll's "The Young Tos­canlni," now filming in south­ern Italy. Taylor agreed to put on weight for her role as a 19th century Russian opera singer.... To pick up the 
skills for his role as a bartender In the film "Cocktail" actor Tom Cruise spent time mixing drinks and tending to the customers at John Clancy's, a Manhatten restaurant. with his co-star, Australian Bryan ("FtX") Brown. 
-
..... 
.... 
-

page 12 Accent FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
Expo Roma 
unveiled 
LISA YOUNG 
Included In the exhibition are accent writer 
F 
design projects, watercolors, ourth year architecture stu­sketches and photographs of dents unveiled their Expo many landmarks, buildings and Roma '87 last Friday afternoon various European scenes. Each at the architecture building. student contributed those The exposition Is a collection works which best represent of student work produced by their time in Rome. Students the 1986-87 Rome Studies Pro­described the exposition as, The Observer I Paul E.Oeschger gram. " ... a taste of Rome, a taste of Architecture major Patrick Perrela studies the drawings the 1987 Expo Roma, an architecture department The unveiling was accompa­Europe, a taste of architecture. exhibit In the Architecture Building. nied by a reception hosted by It is an expression of each per­"The exposition is an oppor­housed in a three-story build­the event included the organi­the fourth year class. Chicago son who participated in the tunity for people to see what ing located behind Howard zation of the hundreds of dis­architects, ND alumni, faculty program." the (Rome Studies) program is Hall. The Architecture Building plays, publicity and invitations and students were Invited to Also displayed are students' like and what architecture is contains classrooms, offices and the details of the kick-off the opening day of this two­sketch books which were a re­like," says Pat Tedesco. "Unless and a library, while the base-reception. Each of the .32 stu­week exhibition, which included quirement of the program. Stu­you're involved, you don't ment is primarily studio space dents whose work was dis­a slide-show presentation high­dents explained that the know." for the design work required of played was responsible for lighting various sights and sketchbooks are a "personal The Rome Studies Program is the program. bringing together and labeling scenes of Italy and Europe. log of thoughts, recorded comprised of four major com­According to co-coordinator their work. The group as­
Fourth-year students were on through visual expression." ponents : Design, Architectural Steve Morita the event took sembled the night before the hand to guide visitors through "This is what we disappear and Urban Studies, Directed about six weeks to organize, opening and set up the dis­the exhibition, as well as an­for a year to do," says Rafael Studies and Field Trips. Four although most of the work was plays. swer questions about the dis­carrelra, a fourth-year student mandatory field trips through­done in the two weeks after The exposition continues on plays, the Rome Studies Pro­whose work Is included in the out the Italian penninsula gave October Break. Said Morita, display in the lobby of the ar­gram and the Architecture exposition. students opportunity to record "Every year the Expo is becom­chitecture building through Program in general. Chris Evans, another fourth­impressions and analyses in ing more glamorous, more Saturday afternoon. Building 
Architecture majors tradition­year student, explains, "The their required sketch books. elaborate, which also means a hours are from 8 a.m. to I 0 ally spend their third year Expo Is a taste of what we did lot more time." p.m. Students and campus studying in Rome. Approxi­for nine months of our life." Design projects are a major "The event is getting better guests are invited to visit the mately .30 students participated The idea behind Expo Roma part of the student work and every year," said Carreira. exibit tomorrow before the In last year's program. is to make people more aware can be viewed at the exposi­Co-coordinator Joye Reno game. 
The program, a combination of the architecture program at tion. Projects include an Analy­explained that the entire class On Monday, the exhibit will of study and travel, emphasizes Notre Dame. The five-year pro­sis of Urban Spaces in Rome, a took part in putting the event be moved to LaFortune, where the study of the historical pat­gram is a study of structure Conference Center, a Museum, together. Reno said, "Everyone it will be on display until No­terns of Italian architectural and design, and includes an Archeological Library, an has a subcommittee. It's really vember 22 in the West Point design. The exposition is a col­courses such as Building Tech­Urban Development Zone and a a class effort --it's bringing our Room. Expo Roma is open to lection of student work done in nology, Architectural History Foreign Academy. class together." the public and is free of Italy and while traveling. and Structural Design. The Architecture Program is Responsibilities in pulling off charge. 

Years like great black oxen 
I  was startled this week to be described as a conservative  hated what I had written, not because it was wrong, since it  know what they have come to mean to me.  though he had money saved to send me to college. I got on  hope he would have enjoyed having me as his son.  
In a letter written to the Obser­ may, in fact have been nearly  My father taught me many  that train so homesick that I  
ver. There is nothing dis­ brilliant. I hated it because it is  things, but he was always em­ felt like dying.  Tonight I realized that ifjust  
honorable about being a con­ such a temptation to always  barrassed to say that he loved  All that first semester, he  once, while I was going  
servative, though it jars the  want to be right, allowing error  me. This wasn't a great over­ never wrote. At mid-semester,  through a graceless adoles­ 
image I have of myself as a  no chance to continue existing.  sight on his part; however, I  got a pink slip in math. My fa­ cence, he had put his arms  
liberal with staunch Catholic  Why must I Insist on getting in  was a lumpish kid, and I  ther's comment, as I heard it  around me, and said: "You're  
principles. In my salad days,  the last word? Because I have  needed his love more than his  later, was: "Maybe he's not as  my boy, and I want you to do  
when I was green in judgment,  the title of University Chaplain?  lectures. He was a wonderful  smart as he thinks he is." It  well, but even if you do poorly,  
father, the greatest papa a lad  wasn't a putdown. As I under­ you're still my boy, and I love  
Father Robert Griffin  ever had; I might have been a better son, if only I had gotten the hang of it. As a kid I was  stand it, by this time he was worried that I wouldn't make it into the seminary, as I had set  you," he would have been as helpful to me as a moral miracle. What I really needed  
Letters to a Lonely God  lazy and took shortcuts. I didn't appreciate the value of money.  my heart on doing.  was for him to fill me with con­fidence. His confidence would  
I told many lies, not because I  Four days before Christmas  have saved me much suffering,  
the genuine conservatives con­sidered me to be a top-of-the­ But isn't the chaplain, or shouldn't he be, a father-figure,  was naturally deceptive, but because I was imaginative; in  break. I got a telegram saying that my father was sick. Calling  from seeing myself as a klutz through his eyes.  
line, state-of-the-art, horse's  especially If he's old enough to  lying, I was describing the  home, I learned that he had  
neck. with rather run-of-the-mill  be a father or a grandfather to  world as I wanted it to be. My  died that morning. For forty  Does this all sound very  
credentials; I daresay they were  half the campus? Should a fa­ father, worried about the ways  years, I have remembered the  maudlin and accusatory? I've  
right. "The years like great  ther spend his time arguing  his Benjamin was screwing up,  silence of my father in the last  always known what he wanted  
black oxen tread the world, I  with the undergraduates like a  was always reminding me of  months of his life. He had  from me. But only tonight,  
And God the herdsman goads  jailhouse lawyer? Shouldn't he  what my duties and responsi­ scolded me so often that when  reviewing a piece that let the  
them on behind, I And I am  have times when he's off-duty,  bilities were, and we grew fur­ the time came for me to leave  chips fall where they might, I  
broken by their passing feet." I  or when his big speech of the  ther and further apart. When he  him, he didn't know how to  suddenly realized how much I  
am smarter today than I was  day is: "Children, you are old  finally died, we had lived for  give me his blessing, and I  needed a show of affection  
when I first fell under the  enough to know right from  nearly a year under the same  didn't know enough to ask for  from my father.  
oxen's feet; maybe that's why I  wrong, good from bad, sh-­ roof without speaking, except  it. I understood all the while  
have moved from liberalism to  from Shinola. All I have to say  for the times he let me know  that his love for me was very  An hour ago, I destroyed the  
conservatism. Perhaps it also  Is: take care of yourselves, and  rather forcefully what he ex­ great; but in our dealings, his  column it took me four hours  
means that I'm no longer on  beware of the geeks bearing  pected me to do.  disappointment was the emo­ to write. Let someone else be  
trial as a horse's neck.  gifts."  tion that he showed the most,  an aid to your conscience for  
W.C. Fields Is credited with  One evening in the fall of  probably because he was afraid  once; I want a week off from  
Anyway, you may not believe  the line: "It was a woman who  1945, he put me on the train  of what would become of me if  nagging you. What I need to  
this: I just ripped up a column that took me all afternoon to  drove me to drink. and I never wrote to thank her." Recently a  that took me to college. At the train station at midnight, nei­ I didn't get my act together. Many years later, I told a  tell you wasn't in that column. What I need to tell you is that  
- write, perhaps because that  woman wrote something about  ther of us had anything to say.  therapist that I felt awkward in  I'm confident that you'll arrive  
rating as a conservative set me  my father that she should have  He couldn't even wish me good  dealing with authority figures.  at answers wiser than any in­ 
wise. It was a hectoring  told me over a drink. and  luck, because we were no  The therapist replied: "Then  sights of mine could be. You  
column, knocking heads to­ maybe would have, if we were  longer close enough to make  you must have had a very strict  are bright young people. Many  
gether, and pointing out the  drinking buddies. She said  small talk. But both of us wept  father."  of us compete for your atten­ 
- fallacies that have come up in our latest campus brouhaha.  what she wanted to say without anesthetizing me first; that's  like toddlers. I was leaving(home as a stranger to my old  Eventually, from thinking  tion. I hope you'll be attentive enough to hear this: Darby  
Finishing it, I typed half of it,  alright; now I'll never have to  man. I had joined a religion  about him so much, I became  O'Gill and I never said we  
and then went to dinner and  write to thank her. Her words  that he hated; I was going to  almost the kind of man he  didn't love you. I may be con­ 
had a drink. In vino, veritas,  have been in my mind for a  study for the priesthood  wanted me to be; though not  servative about many things. I  
they say. Halfway through the  week or more; whatever she  against his will. He was not  as good, responsible, or  hope that I am a liberal when I  
vlno, the veritas came to me: I  thought they meant, I now  even paying for my education,  generous as he himself was, I  try to show you respect.  

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 ______________________________~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r--------------------------------------------~P~a~g~e=1=3 
n.a.--NotiW Dame office, located on the third floor of l...afoftune Stu· dMt Center eccepts claaalfied ~ling from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Fnday. 11w a.--s.mt Mery-. office, located on the third noor of H..-Collge Center, eccepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frldlly. Deedllne for next-day clualfiedala 3 p.m. All clualfledl muat 
be pnlplkl, either In pen1011 Of' by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:hlncters per day. 
Classifieds 
1 
TRAVEL PROMOTERS WANTED need 2 stud lix lor bama call pele ·4340 REACH Succumb lo peer pressure (1) Hale EARN HIGH COMMISSIONS e FREE out to your friends abroad Miami (2) Buy a official Hale Miami button 
NOTICES PERSONALS
TRIPS! FANTASTIC BUSINESS EXPE· NEED 'BAMA GA'S. CALL 272-8282 wllh a personal ad In available al 283·131 0 RIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME! MHt $$$$$. FOREIGN RELATIONS' REACHTYPING AVAILABLE 
people and gain recognition on your NEWSLETTER For lnlormatton about lhe Bruce Guay287-4082 
WAKE UP!

campua aa an Entertainment Toura GRAD NEED 2-4 BAMA TIX. ALUMNI only SO canis lor up to 20 words II Fan Club send a sell addressed stamped Spring BrHk Trip Campua Rapreaen· DAD WITH BIG WALLET COMING. buy as many 20-word blocks as you like ll envelope to: tatlve. Call tolllree1-8D0-525-1838 and PLEASE CALL 312-303·58411 EVES. BELL YGRAMS I 255·3355 write your ad, pull! WITH YOUR MONEY I Love BruceTYPING-WORD PROCESSING 
..k lor Entertainment Toure. In an envelope In Mary Bergeof'oreign 323 Keenan Hall
CALL CHRIS 
NEED TWO ALABAMA STUD TIX $$$ OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Relaliona' mailbox and we'll do lhe real. Noire Dame, IN 46556234-8997 Fi,'d;..~;;;;;;'d·;;'Roi:1.ci;~;i~~;j·;:o·s;;~it. Michelle 288·6631 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Thank you lor your support. Bend on 11129 (End of break) Call Maggie ......................................................... BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. WANTED: 2 'Bama stud. llx or G.A.'a x4670 NEED: FOUR ALABAMA GAME STU· Frank or Sieve X216 I Wordproceaaing· Typing 
...................................... DENT TICKETS, PLEASE CALL MISSY DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GRETCHEN! 

HELPI Need ride lo WASH DC AREA 271·0868 IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS Waterloo, Have a great day, bul beware lonlghtl over Thanksgiving I Can (wanllol) leave WILL BUY THEM I WILL PAY $$$1 CALL I'll lry lo save you.(maybe) FAI I 1120 Call Julie X4670 i'Neeo ALAaA'M'A'Q'A'·S·~u·p·;:o·FO'UR SUE AT X4238 Thanks. I'm going lo own hall olthla world Love-ya-lolal 272-8827 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277­
Coli Marty at 1489 before I run myself over lhe edge. I'm Tine7406 I also need a BAMA GAl call Julie x4670 GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NQ.SMC going to dale every girl between here SUPPORT ·EDUCATION ·SOCIAL and Kansas. And If !hal doesn't get you
TYPING 
Celestina and roommate need ride to NEED BAMA GA's BADLY x4199 $$$$ FOR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION, off of my mind, I'll ask you oul again. THE RETURN OF K K I S S KK I S S277-8131 or 237·1949 Northern New Jersey area lor Thanks· WRITE TO Napoleon K I SSS SSS KK I S S K K I S S Sal., govong. Can leave I 1·24. Please call al Do aomethlng beHerl Donate your BOX 194; NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 Stepen Center
................................................................ 
C3468. 'Bema Tlx to Logan Centerlll Wed,MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY. 
Thur, Friday dlnnera... Eileeen, Remember: No matter where EARN EXTRA MONEY GO TO A SUMMER IN FRANCE, GERMANY, NEEDED:RIDE TCWROM ATLANTA you go, there you are. II your schedule
................................................................ 
COUNTRY HARVESTER BASEMENT Scraps or Spares? SWITZ, AND !TALY (JUNE 12..JUL Y 11) FOR THANKSGIVING. CAN LEAVE lrees up lhla weekend, call me. SOUNDSoon the Prophecies of the 1nva11on of 
OF LAFORTUNE TUESDAY, NOVEM­WITH ND·SMC STUDENTS? AFTER I 11.!2. WILL SPLIT GAS. CALL good? All pun Intended. ·MSC
Israel and the Great Earthquake Will be I can use those extra Bama Tlx lor my ....
BER 17, 1987 BE A DORM REP. COURSES IN ITALIAN, HIST, SOC TRIONA£4005.
lullolled (ct. Ezekiel 38. Danoel 12). Form­little sis 
AVAILABLE. CALL T.J. JONES 2053 
Altenllon: HELP Need Rode To Wash. D.C. (302 STANFORD) FOR DETAILS ON BRIAN MOFFITI FAN CLUB
Ing a commun11y. self·suttic1en1 1n lood Need 2 lo 4 Call 3018 
and anergy, lo survove. God Willing, lhe area THE NAKED DANCING MAN on lhe pool 
THE SUMMER ROME PROGRAM.
lor break call Kim 284-4452 table al Bridgers Sal. nigh! has been There will be mandalory cheering prac·comong deslrucllon Wnle Mochael, P.O. 
identified as Rick Meyer of 423 Sl. Ed's. lice
Box 4475, South Bend, lndoana 46634· NEEDED: 2 ALABAMA GAs VINCE 271 · 
Need nde lo Cincinnati,OH lor Thanks· Do you have a hear of gold lor NO? For repeal performances call x2647. Saturday before lhe game on Green
4475 9441 govong Call Jim xl216 Field. Lei's hear it when TO THE GORGEOUS SMC FLASHER Mike Aberle--Thanks so much lor coming HE runs oul ollhe lunnell GO BRIAN II
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL NEED 1 BAMA TICKET. X2916 
FROM HOLY CROSS: 
over to help me 'Iii 3 am. I feel alol better 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009 ................................................................ 
WE MET AT CAMPUSVIEW. YOU now, especially because of you. You areI need a pair of Bema lickels. G.A. or 
MADE HALLOWEEN A REAL TREAT. 
lhe sweetest guy al ND. I'll see you BRIAN MOFFITIstudent is line. Please call Vince al271· 
DROP ME A LINE SOMETIME.
ii'eo"ii'ND''6iie.AK·F·A;;:r·;:;·o...&..s:;:;:c. FOR SALE tonighll Love, Anne (P.S.··Iha joke Is I'll be cheering lor youl
0477 
A LONG DISTANCE ADMIRER 
coming... ) Go lrlshl Beat Alabama! 1979 HONDA PRELUDE. 5 SPEED, Your Plua Lady Parents 2 noghls minimum 12 monules 
from campus 272·5989 need 2 ALABAMA GAs call Max at 283· 
AM-I'M STEREO CASSETIE PLAYER, Senior Cle.. Block Party Friday No·
1542 or 283· I 543 
Logan VoluntHro

SUNROOF. CRUSE CONTROL, RUNS vember 13, 4-6:30 South Dome of JACC 
SENIORS, STORM THE FIELD AFTER THE WELL. $900 OR BEST OFFER 283· I need 2 or 4 GA's lor the 'BAMA game! Dence Friday I Everyone Invited AI D1Gu111o(Whltney Houeton): You 
6:00 Ht up

4 I 65.AF 9PM OR MOR looked eo hot l..t Friday In thot luahle 'Bema Game Saturday DESIGNATED DRIVER WEEK dreoo. Do you know that you ere the FOR SALE one way plane ticket. $119 Meet al Logan at Noon Drinking Drivers are nol funny Bul they envy ol many N.D. glrlo?ll Happy B· 
GAME Ill Call Craig el 234·7018. 
NEED TWO ALABAMA GA'SIII 
Moch. Reg. lo Philly lnl'l. Wed. Nov. 25 Bring your llcketal can still crack you up ···Officer Tim Day, BUTI·HEADII Love, Kim & Cer·
NEED RIDE TO PITISBURGH OVER Laura C2494 
onlo call xl 302. McCarthy -CLASS OF '88 mlna
THANKSGIVING BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL KEVIN AT 239· ............................... 
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME ALEX
5303....................................... 1974 OLDS AUTOMATIC ; SURESH Welcome, Jim. Welcome to the machine . 
Need Bama lixs 237&'2364 
TOTH & PAUL CINELLI. WE HOPE THE 
FER WEEKEND IS AS MUCH FUN FOR YOU surrounding area lor Thanksgiving. Will know where you've been. (AI least we AS IT IS FOR US. GO IRISH BEAT 
239·5273>234·3250;$495 OR BEST OF· I need a ride lo Kansas City, MO or I he Where have you been? n·a all rlghl, we 
share expenses. Please call Theresa al know what her name Ia.) FOR SALE AIRLINE TICKET 2738. 
I .NEED 2 BAMA TIX-RACHEL x2930 
'BAMA, EHII LOVE NANCY & EILEEN WASH. DC lo SOUTHBEND. JAN. 10. SLAP : HAVE FUN TONITE, NO MAT·
I need I 'BAMA ticket-STU or GA. Family 
ALL MY FRIENDS ARE COMING FOR
LOST/FOUND I 
CHEAP. CALL 277-8264. WE NEED YOUR TICKETS TER WHAT HAPPENS WE'LL SAY
coming from Florida. Cell Karen at 4293. 
THE BAMA GAME, SO I NEED 3 STUD 
DESPERATEL Yl SHE HAD NICE LEGS. IT MAY BE TIME 
TIXS REALLY BAD OR I'L BE TOTAL 
LOGAN CENTER TAKES THEIR FOR RSHERING ·ASK RONO. BUD­
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST I need six Alabama tickets I will pay $I 80 
LOSER CALL BILL AT 2038 
CLIENTS EVERY YEAR TO THE LAST DAH
LOST LOST LOST LOST Timex watch· -maybe more call 288·8466 NO HOME GAME PLEASE DONATE·~old lace w11h broken solver and gold 
NEED RIDE TO DES MOINES FOR 
YOUR ALABAMA TIX·GA'S OR STUD CARRIE, Ssh. Aboul dancing on the pool 
band REWARD REWARD REWARD HELPI 1 need 2 sludenl llx and 2 GAs 
THANKSGIVING. WILL SHARE COST.
TICKETS TO PUT A SMILE ON THESE KIDS lable··you were sal upl Don'! worry
REWARD Call Deanna al 3516 or 4 GAs lor 'Bama Gamel Call Karlene 
PLEASE CALL DEB· I 270. 
FACESI DONATIONS ACCEPTED AT though, we love you even more lhan a BOTH DINING HALLS P.S. WE'RE NOT tequila ahol (no inola-puke). Do gel ott al 4068. PLEASE HELP MEl 
LOST BRACELET·GOLD ONE
ON ................................. ···························· TWO PEOPLE NEED RIDE TO OMAHA, KIDDING I lhe floor and remember 10 put on your
SIDE. "I LOVE YOU" ON OTHER I LOST FOR SALE: 2 BAMA GA'o. Call Eugene 
................................. NE FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK -nightgown before run oul Into lhe
you

IT WED., NOV 4 SOMEWHERE ON NO 1201 
MATT X1749 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE I NEED A parking lot. II things were messy againCAMPUS PLEASE. PLEASE CALL KK AT 298 I IF FOUND!' Need 2 or 3
1 really. really. really need r Alabama RIDE TO D.C. FOR THANKSGIVING leal night thai's OK··il'a your B·DAY 
Ohh GRETCHEN, Goddess, nymph, per­
ticket. CALL DEBBIE 4·5227 WEEKI Love, your BP Roommates.
BAMA GA'o 
feel, devlnel To what, my love, shall I
Srudant or GA will do. Call John at 283· 2445. "'BANDANAS" hurrah, we're all free now 
LOST LAVENDER FOLDER CONTAIN· Big Ed X 2343 or 2345 
compare lhyne eyne? Crystal ia muddy.
lNG IMPORTANT PAPERS & PARAP· 
Oh how ripe in show, lhy lips, !hose kls· 
$3 each What noisy cala are we .
HERNALIA IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL 
................................. 
sing cherries, tempting grow. Thai pure 
SHOW YOUR SPIRIT SATURDAYX 2702 
congealed while, high Taurus snow,
... ~-~·~·~-' -~·"'''·* * •••••••• ***.'! "·"."!~ ·".'!.,!¥.'!. WITH 
turns lo a crow when lhy holdesl up thy
HELP-HELP·HELP MY PARENTS ARE NO va. ALABAMA BANDANAS HELLO, K· TOWN 
Would the person who look my INFOR· 
hand. Ohhh let me kiss lhia princeas of
ON THE WAY BUT I AIN'T GOT GA's SOLD THIS WEEK IN SMC & NO Here il Ia, lhe lira! ollhe year. All's fine
MAL LOGIC book lrom South donong hall NEEDED! 2 'BAMA lix, stud or GA.$$$ 
pure while, lhls seal of blissiiiii···HAPPY 
I'LL BEAT ANY OFFERII!I PLEASE DINING HALLS GET YOURSII Here and al SMC. 'Leen'a B·day 2day.
last Thursday (lha 51h) please do me lhe Call Pam Cl266 
BIRTHDAY, GRETCHEN! You're worth
CALL BOB AT 2096. PLEASE HELPIIII SPONSORED BY SMC SENIOR CLASS Copper Pennies reclpel Cookies 'ncourtesy of relurnong 11 somatome belore 
more than words can poetically conveyl 
lonals..Jdesperately need 11. HELP! Need 2·4 Alabama GA's 271 · caahlll FOR SALE 2 BAMA GA'S BEST OFFER HELLO AMANDA
Love, Shakespeare Nanoy•~84·1 .............. 0469 
Pl..tlc • Pleotlc • Pleotlc239·6381
Lost· a denom ;ackel wolh corduroy cults 2 persons in need of ride lo Albany,NY 
Yes, this /s lor you. I'll bring the saran and collar Ia" on Waahonglon Need 2 Alabama Ga's. Ask lor Mike Clark lor turkey break. Gol room, call Mo 284· 
wrap (keeps the Ice from meldng too
NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG TO THE GUY walling lor lhe elevator·
Hall reward of returned ..call 277-7137. 272·3763. 5409 
fast) and you bring the magic shells. I
BUCKSII CALL JOE 287·4581 a"er Brare floor 8 yeslarday all0:40a.m. who 
can't walt to see you tonight -even If you
6pm. "TENDS TO THOW UP IN LARGE
II you accidentally(?) pocked up my brown PLEASE ~~II;;;~ 2Ai~b~ma Tlckelall Call Annetta aren't going to wear a tie for me. You CROWDS"·· I wish I'd asked your name·
leather bomber jacket allhe party on I 05 1325 'Bama Is going to lose more than a foot· 
forgot something last night -but/ guess
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? ·I'd like lo gel to know you··kPieaae reply 
Marquena St.. 7 NOV. Sal aner lhe cops ball game this weekend with you swim· 
IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS you dldn't want to hear the animal here ... l'm Amy
busted the party. call Moke 1900 lo NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP··THE ming for the Irish. Best of luck tonight 
sounds anyway.

WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 Love, Snook/as Hey. Farley's Flnealll n·a lime lo rallyl 
return No ?'a asked. DREAM STARTS WITH MOM AND DAD -we're behind you 100%11111 
GETIING 2 BAMA GA'S. JB-4681 Your £1 fans C&K 
P. S. This sounds pretty strange out of 
Pul warpalnt,

LOST mens eyeglasses, brown lramea. on lha step Into lhoee 
context
I NEED GAo FOR ALABAMA GAME. shamrock boxers and gel ready lo beat
on road lo Sl. Mary's, of found please call NEED 2 'BAMA STUDENT TIX·CALL AL 
272-8308 the Blilzl Long live the Champsi
2757 or leave at Badin 4I 9. x2004 ................................ RIDE 
................................................................ 
NEEDED TO ROCHESTER NY FOR
NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· ScOLieenl Whaddaya say about goln' out Hey, Farley's Flneall Touchdown Jesus
LOS'I: LEVI'S JEAN JACKET. SUNDAY PARTY NAKED PARTY NAKED 
THHANKSGIVING CALL JOHN 2236 IN E-LINE NORTH DINING HALL. PARTY NAKED PARTY NAKED PLEASE CALL KATHY AT 4570. ••. WITH MY GIRLFRIEND FROM U OF 
ETS TO ALABAMA va. NOTRE DAME one of these weekend nlyhls? I'm sure Is calling you, can't you hear him? I do 
GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL we could lind something fun lo do like believe II is lime lo respond to lhe call 
COLLECT (814) 535-94110 BEFORE 5 go out dressed as packages and go lo ollhe Lord. Look oul B.P., we are on a OR (814) 288-44114 AFTER 5 PM. WHY NOT ORDER A BIRTHDAY CAKE a movie or hang out and make fun of Divine mlssionlll 
THANKS I KY ... FOR 1 STUD. ALABAMA TICKET. 
CALL CHUCK 283·1877 
FOR THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE? people and be just all around cynical! So BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDSI Call CALL 263-2359 TODAY OR LOOK FOR how about It? Can you gel ma lnlo your 
SILVER BRACELET LOST THURS. ................................................................ 
BAMA TICKETS 4 BOX SEATS 50 YD. John 27 I ·0939 WEDNESDAY'S AD busy schedule ? I hope soli The Wrong 
1115 BETWEEN B·P AND O'SHAG. Rene.Thenka to you, your roommotee 
PLEASE CALL MOIRA 13231F FOUND. LINE BEST OFFER MIKE X21 85 paot end preoent ond oil your lrlendo
Name Caller II lor ouch o greet weekend. I only wleh

I need Alabama GA'a and alud ttx. x1 I 18 ................................................................
MY NEED ALABAMA Ken. BOOKIE BOB appologizes for lasl OH MY OH MY OH MY OH MY OH MY 
I LOST BLACK VAURNET SUN· CASH··I NEED 1 we could Hnd you each en apprecla· 
GLASSES DURING THE FOOTBALL TICKET CALL JOE AT 2073 week's inappropriate line on lhe tlon banana. Come -ua 110metlme.,
OH MY OH MY ON MY OH MY OH MY
GAME LAST SATURDAY THEY HAVE ................................ 
Love, Mr. & Mra. T. A LOT OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ELVIS THE KING needs 'Bema Stud's
Wanted 2 GA's for the Alabama Game STANFORD-fisher game. Bulllhlnk I gol OH MY II Hello Holmsas is due Into South Call Doug al I 623 II this week. STANFORD minus 9.5 vrs Bend International Airport sometime lhla 
ME. THERE IS A $$$$ REWARDI LIZ and GA's. Big $$$. Call 271·0464. i:l:iis···:;..·:,;ou...o.ioN··:r··c:iii:i:'ri...oot:i·'T ­
lhe bums from dillon. I might also be weekend lor the Alabama game I HldaAT X2934 LEAD ME ON LIKE THIS. DID SOME·
MY FRIENDS ARE COMING FROM persuaded lo lay 3 lo 1 slralghl up on I he Kids I Send your girlfriend oul ollownI
need Bama GA's-call Mike 1699 BODY GET TO YOU FIRST REPLY
LONG ISLAND AND I NEED ALABAMA lhe game. Lets sea some dorm spirlllel· Do SOMETHING buller God's sake gel 
...................................................... 
HERE SOONIIII

TIX. GA'S OR STUDENT TIX. I'M A lows. call 2005 between 5:30 and 6:30 oul of his way If he's been drinking I
HELPIII I NEED I BAMA STUD TIX. SENIOR AND THIS IS IT CALL PAUL PM any day. WIMPS Ill I Welcome back, Holmse I
PLEASE CALL MARK AT 288·3421. 
Dear Linda,

FOR RENT 
2185. Aida needed to Champaign, IL lor HAPPY BIRTHDAY AL "You Can Call For alllhe limes you've remembered me 
BAM ST TX $40 FIRM X4546 
wllh cards or letters

1 BAMA STUD TIX NEEDED BADLY .. Thanksgiving. Call Jeanne x21 17 or Bea Me Whitney" DlGiullo111 You may
Leaaelhla 2BR apartment now for spring ................................................................ 
I jual wan! to say thank you. You always

CALL MATI X2055 x3462. never h•ve had PMS, but we've never
semester and move in anytime. $ 325mo. ALABAMA GA'S FOR SALE. 282·2977 have a way of making
worn nerl bellalll We hope you haveoncludes ullllllea. Call 232·9239. 
me feel better when the world has me

WANTED: i~·;;i~~..~~~d·~i..2.sAMii..ii~~··;;i;~~~·~~i; I have a room tor sale at lhe Marriott lor 1 apeclel dey, ond hey-n WE'D LOVE 4 GA'S TO ALABAMA Fri. & Sal. nights of the Alabama TO DANCE WITH YOU111 Love, The 
down. I LOVE YOU Now showing lor B/1188·8/1189 lease. and I'm still smiling because ol YOUI
Mike al 4259. 
CALL ROMANO AT I 623 weekend. Call Maria £4559 Blmboo from Lewla
6BR, 2 bath house on bus line. Call 232· Ken 9239 
NEED I BAMA GA OR STUD ANY PRICE! DAN 4239 
HELP NEED A RIDE TO LA CALIFORNIA NEED TIX TO ALABAMA (2 Student). Need ride lo NE N.J..NYC. Can leave FOR THANKSGIVING? Round-trip tlxMOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT SEMES· Repunzel, Tonight should be a great
W111 pay very well. Coli Richard at 272· alter 4:30 Nov. 24 or 25. Will Share ex· from Chicago ONLY $145.001 Call Susan 
Sell me
TEA ? SPOT IN CAMPUS VIEW lime, thank God lor Visa cards
5582. penses. Call Laura x3757. 3879.OPENING UPI IF INTERESTED, CALL Sell me I gol my reservations and all Ia sal for a Sell me
KEITH. 271·0571. Hello Walter, Anna, Magan Streicher whole nigh! of spooning I 
NEED 'BAMA TIX student or GA call 2 TUNNEL FOR BAMAII We owe It to 
Love Jim Streicher Hanz
Doug 234-6718 the boya.
Bamo Tix Jim McGowan -3010 
For renllurnoahed 3bedroom home (ONE P.S. Spooning along wllh some of lhla, 
BLOCK FROM CAMPUS) beginning In EVERYONE wish my Sweetie, BLAND some of lhallll
I finally talked my slater lnlo coming up Was !hal YAK at lhe LIBRARY on 
December or January. Call Lennie aner MATIHEWS, lhe Super Happiest of 2oth 
lo NO and now she nedds a BAMA lickell FRIDAY NITE?I The Mashers 
5 pm al 234·7650. You n~'MON'EY'~~'d'i ~~d·p·;~~·st·. Blrthdays,SUNDAYIII LOVE YOUII
Help me oui··WIII offer mucho 
GAo. Harry 1398. Th~nks .ag~i~ ..lor the add, bul nol only
$$$$$$$$$$for GA or Sludanlllckel. Call JOE HOLLIDAY WHAT A STUDII 
I AM SUBLEASING MY APARTMENT Love lhy neighbor as thyself ... BUT HATE am I damn good, I'm damn taken. G. ·The
Beth 1334 HAPPY BIRTHDAYII Hera's your per·
LOCATED AT 820 NOTRE DAME AV .. MIAMI III Nirvannah Guy
NEED BAMA STUD TIX CALL MIKE AT sonal, I expect one next weeki! Your IF INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL 
I NEED 3 TICKETS FOR THE ALABAMA 2456 lavoile roomie, Mike. 
XAVIER AT 288·8923. Firsllhere was Thor, !hen Superman, and Thank you very much Sl. Jude
GAME ·STUDENT OR G.A. 

now, right here on our very own campusNEED ALABAMA GA TIX WILL PAY BIG Come to 273 Dillon Hall Sal. nigh! and we have a new breed of superhero. He WELCOME DUPAIASH (ObeerverCALL JIM al 1602 BIG BUCKS CALL JOHN AT 271·0464 wish Joe and Mike a happy birthday II 
comes In the form of a Hockey player U.me Duck) and Is known simply as IrS GOOD TO HAVE YOU BACK AT
WANTED i'N.EED ALA.BAMATiCKETSI CALL BEN ............................. I NEED ALA· Joe· 
"THE G·MAN" NO. ­
AT 1661 BAMA TIX GA OR STUD CALL JOHN Yes, we know It's your birthday. And Bruce Guay Is The G·Man. Be 
sure to
AT 22361""""""""""""""' no, we didn't gel you a present We love 
WANTED!! Two grad students need six cheer on Bruce and lhe rest ollhe Notre
I NEED 1 BAMA TICKET (STUDENT OR you anyway. Have a good one. 
GA's lor Alabama game··nol neceaaarlly Dame Hockey leam as they lake on Lake
GA) $$$$$$$$ CALL TASHA X404 I SEX SEX SEX ·I need sex and 2 Ala· ·LTD 
together. Please call 283·3090 ~ you can ................................................................ Foreallhls weekend. FIRE ON ICE-FEEL 
bema GAs. II you can provide either call 
help Our oul·of.lown relatives are willing 3 NO gala need ride lo PENN S. GAME, THE HEAT!
Dave at x1694.
N'ee·o·;··aii'MA'sruoFiaA'iisuE··x2ii1.9 see PERSONALS, page 14
to PAY! will shares expenaeal Call Julie X4279 
.... 


AP Photo 

In a row, partly because they have not found any consistency In any of their signal-callers. A related story appears at right. 
.. 
-
... 
-
PERSONALS 
Continued from page 13 
SENIORS-Remember the tunnel at the Miami game our freshman year? TUNNEL 'BAMA 
tunnel (tun-ll v. to form a corridor of students for the football team to run through. 
TUNNEL 'BAMA 
JULIE-EVERYONE NEEDS SOMEONE TO TALK TO. THANKS FOR BEING THERE WHEN I NEEDED YOU. I'LL BE GLAD TO RETURN THE FAVOR WHENEVER YOU NEED ME. --­CHRISTOPHER 
ASK ME ASK ME ASK ME -The Smiths 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TIFFIII Now that you're 18, I guess we can, uh, .. lots of love, Smurl 
LISA DEVEREAUX...Send money so I can bribe someone to find out who sent me the first one II ...your brother. 
To the "LAME FRESHMAN" who called last Sat. at about 1 A.M. and "realty wanted to sell me hill' B.C. ticket.• -I may have changed my mind. -Got any 'Barna tickets?! 
SPRING BREAK '88 SOUTH PADRE ISLAND Roundtrip Air -Chlc~o -Harlingen March 12-19 -$290 $40 Non-Refundable depoaH due to: Travetmore Office In LaFortune by Nov. 25. Caah or Local Check ONLY FSMondeye -8:30 am -7 pm Tueeday-Frldey -8:30 am-4:45 pm 
MARIA FIERENS: OHHHII, HAPPY B­DAYII LOVE, KRENS,GRANDMA,MAYNARD, CRAYOLA HEAD, THE FLY(R.I.P.), THE CAT,DROOLIN' TOM, ANDERS FROM RANDERS,P.B., AND THE REST OF THE CLAN! 
MARIA FIERENS IS 19 TODAYII HAVE A SHOT OF S. AND CELEBRATE! HOPE YOUR DAY IS FANTASTIC! LOVE,LIZ AND LIZ (JUST TAKE THE TWO LAST NAMES THAT FIRST COME TO MIND!) 
To ERIN "SWIMGODDESS"TIERNEY Just wanted to wish the most AWESOME swimmer GOOD LUCK! GO N.D.­DROWNED BAMA 
P.S. YESTERDAY THE ROCK TODAY THE ACC TOMORROW THE OL YM­PICSII 
Carl, Thanks so much fo listening, un­derstanding and letting me "dump" on you. Your friendship is priceless. I hav a dry shoulder if you ever need it. Basket­ball P.S. Let's do New York sometime. 
TOTS-Desperate Roomates beg for you to change your major. Why? 1. Who would ever let you run their business, you can't even keep track of the powder puff. 2. The librarians are getting sick of your face. 3. Your scopes keep asking for you. 4. You can only make so many friendship bracelets. 5. Long walks with Gina are no substitute for $.90 Molsons. 
6. Our laundry is piling up again. 7. We've resorted to conversing with you through The Observer. Roompicks £240 & £416 
MARILv'N:· L.~~~~-· L.\s·co..~i~~~-~-..H~:~ 
MINE!! If I catch you flirting with him again,l'll scratch your eyes outl YOLANDA 
To Our Southern Belle. Herzlichen Gluck­wunsch Zum Geburtstagl We Love You I Spater Geter 
CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS WE HAVE CLIENTS. SEEKING QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS WITH LANGUAGE AND AREA EXPERTISE REGARDING FOREIGN MARKETS. 
PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE. 
FOREIGN NATIONALS WITH ADVANCED DEGREES FROM AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES ACCEPTED AS VISA RESTRICTIONS WILL NOT AFFECT CERTAIN PROJECTS. 
EXPERTISE IN TECHNICAL, ECONOMIC, 
OR SCIENTIFIC FIELDS IS REQUIRED. 
SEND RESUME, INCLUDING TELEPHONE NUMBER TO: SW_ENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE EXECUTIVE SEARCH DIVISION P.O. BOX A-3629 CHICAGO, IL 60690 
-
ALL PAST AND 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 

Raider signal-callers not doing job in LA 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES-A ghost emerges yearly from a Los An­geles Coliseum dungeon to tor­ment the local pro football quarterbacks, coaches and fans. 
A spell is cast in which nobody wins the big one and a talented passer leaves town. 
The past is filled with names that revive memories of battles for jobs and choices that were made. Among them: Waterfield-Van Brock lin; Gabriel-Munson; Harris-Jaworski; Harris-Haden, Haden-N amath-Ferragamo. 
This year, it's Wilson-Hilger­Evans-Plunkett, the four quar­terbacks of the Los Angeles Raiders. 
For decades, the Los Angeles Rams, followed into the Coliseum by the Raiders in 1982, have been consistent win­ners who could not win the big ones. Coaches and fans debated the perennial question: which of our talented quarterback can win it all for us? 
Inevitably, the loser left for Philadelphia, where Norm Van Brocklin won an NFL title and both Roman Gabriel and Ron Jaworski had extended careers, throwing lots of touch­down passes for losing teams. 
When the Raiders inherited the Coliseum and the ghost, the script didn't adapt well to a team with just one superb quar­terback, Jim Plunkett, who led them to Super Bowl triumphs in 1981 for Oakland and 1984 for Los Angeles. 
But Plunkett's age and injur­ies and the arrival of Marc Wil­son revived kind of "almost" seasons that were the Rams' specialty for 30 years. 


•You 
won't believe your eyes 

•Clearer, 
Sharper, More 3D Vision 

•A 
vailable in your prescription for the first time 

•Blocks 
harmful UV rays and vision blurring blue 

•A 
viailable in the latest designer frame styles 

•Only 
at Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical 

•Ask 
for your student discount 


~~rr.:~:~~~~~t Rd  :oT.~~~~E:a~:~:.:l ~ijei·!J:•••••mllllll~~~~~~·:•:•m•jie  
•crou from ScotUda1e Mall  ne.s.l door to O..co l>rua  
291-4000  258-5000  

PRESENT TUTORS 
) )  (INCLUDING ALUMNI) ARE INVITED TO ATTEND THE  
) )  25th ANNIVERSARY OF NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP  
PROGRAM  
SUNDAY, -NOV. 15, 1987  
11 AM MASS  -CELEBRANT FR. MALLOY  
12 AM BRUNCH AT THE JACC MONOGRAM ROOM.  
$3 DONATION APPRECIATED  

-

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 The Observer page 15 
WWF Wrestling at JACC 
Beefcake cuttin' and struttin' 
at  WrestleMania  Ill.  The  
Dream  Team  faced  the  
Rougeau  Brothers  and  beat  



The Observer I File Photo George 'The Animal' Steele teams with Brutus 'The Barber' Beefcake In a tag-team match as part of a World Wrestling Federation card at the Joyce ACC on Sunday. Rick Rletbrock features Beefcake In his story at right. 
Make your Notre Dame weekend a complete treat with dinner at 
By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
Look out University Hairstylists. Heads up Varsity Shop. Watch out Rocco's. There'll be a new king in town this weekend in the world of hair styling. 
Brutus 'The Barber' Beef­cake will be at the Joyce ACC Sunday, scissors in hand, as part of a big World Wrestling Federation card. 
Beefcake will team with George 'The Animal' Steele to face The New Dream Team of Greg 'The Hammer' Valentine and Dino Bravo, managed by Luscious Johnny V. 

NOTRE DAME 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY PRESENTS 
AIDS: Its Impact on Health Care Workers 
by Dr. Keith MacDonnell 
University of Notre Dame grad 
Northwestern School of Medicine Infectious Diseases Department 
Sunday, November 15 3:00pm 
127 Nieuwland Science Hall 
All students interested in a Health Care profession are urged to ;}ttend. 
Beefcake was formerly a member of the original Dream Team (along with Valentine). The Beefcake-Valentine com­bination held the WWF tag­team titles until WrestleMania II, when they were defeated by the British Bulldogs. 
Since that time, the Dream Team slowly declined. Beef­cake maintains that Valentine and Johnny V were cramping his style. 
unique oriental dining. 

Fresh Ingredients No Mass Productions 
"We were the champs for al­most a year and we scheduled more title defenses than any team in history," said 'The Barber' Tuesday from a pay phone in a Fort Lauderdale shopping mall. "Then the egos started taking over and jealousy really took over. I started getting more and more popular and Valentine and Johnny V just couldn't handle it. It got to the point where they were just holding me back." 
The finishing touch occurred 
them illegally. An argument ensued and Valentine and Johnny V left the ring without Beefcake. Bravo, who was also managed by Johnny V at the time, then became Valentine's partner. 
'The Barber' still has a beef with his former mates, espe­cially with the man who has replaced him. 
"I am not permanently teaming with George 'The Animal' Steele," he said. "I'm my own man and I like to do 
6.329 University Commons South Bend IN 
272-6702 

LrC=U~ #J[R]lf~ 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
The College 
Seminary of 
The 

Archdiocese 
of Chicago 
For more information 
contact 

Father Greg Sakowicz 7135 N. Harlem Chicago, IL 60631 (312) 631-1017 
things in my style. I just saw The New Dream Team was signed to wrestle so I had to find somebody who would help me do a number on them. I have no respect for them what­soever. 
"Bravo's a jerk -lots of muscle and no brain. He's got a bad attitude. I don't like the way he treats kids. I like to do a lot of work with handicapped kids and visit a lot of hospitals. He has no heart for kids." 
Since his break from Valen­tine, Beefcake, now in his 11th year of professional wrestling, adopted the nickname 'The Barber.' That is also a result of WrestleMania III. 
''After Roddy Piper beat Adrian Adonis, I went in to clip his hair because he had taken a chunk out of mine a few weeks earlier," said Beefcake. "Then I did it again in a match in April and the crowd went crazy. I made it a practice to end with a sleeper and then cut my victim's hair, give him a little extra color on the side (with spray paint) and even a nice style job. 
"No doubt there's going to be some cuttin' and struttin' this Sunday.'' 
Three WWF titles are also on the line Sunday. The Honkey Tonk Man will defend his Inter­continental belt against Randy 'Macho Man' Savage, the World Tag-Team Champions Strike Force will face The Islanders in a cage match and The Sensational Sherry will defend her Ladies' title against Debbie Combs. 
Other matches include the One Man Gang against the Junkyard Dog and Sam Hous­ton against Cowboy Bob Orton. 

If priesthood were an easy decision and commitment, you would not 
need us. 
-· 
--, 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987

The Obsefver 
Irish swimming 
Crimson Tide rolls into Rolfs 
page 16 
..­

The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
The Notre Dame swim team faces national-power Alabama this weekend. Rose Pietrzak previews the meet at right. 

Rome 
June 12-July 11 Travel in France, Germany, and Switzerland 
,­
Open to friends and relatives 
courses offered in ART, BIOLOGY, 
For more info., contact 
HISTORY, BUEC, 
Prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726 
AND SOCIOLOGY. 
,-· 
By ROSE PIETRZAK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams will test their strength in the first home meet of the season against a strong Alabama team today at 4 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ter. 
Competing against Alabama for the first time in intercol­legiate swimming, the men take their 32-member team up against last year's 16th-ranked Crimson Tide. Meanwhile, the inexperienced women's team will begin its season versus a young, but strong Alabama wo­men's team. 
Alabama head coach Don Gambril, head coach of the 1984 United States swim team and four-time assistant coach, and his team will give the Irish a run for their money. One of the powerhouses on the Notre Dame schedule, Alabama should prove to be a learning experience for the team. 
"What we're looking at here is an awesome Alabama team," says Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "The men's team has been ranked in the top 10 in the NCAA ten times since 1974 and the women's team has been ranked five of the past six seasons. This is a quality team coming up here, and we'll have to make sure we meet that high caliber. This meet will prepare us for a field of excellent swim­ming teams at the National Catholic, and give us an idea of where we need to consolidate our efforts and improve." 
Although the challenge will be an obstacle for the Irish, the meet with Alabama will mea­sure the talent, strength and durability of the squad. Win or lose, the team will have had the chance to compete against one of the best. "This meet is not going to be measured by which team wins, but by the amount of energy and excitement that comes out of it," says Welsh. "This meet exists because Al­abama wants to be part of the Notre Dame experience, it is not the only objective to deter­mine the faster team. It is im­portant that Notre Dame is well-prepared and disciplined for the meet, and we have the advantage of racing against the clock and not only the op­ponent." 

$1 COUPON $1 off any delivery purchase with this coupon
z ~ 
0 NAUGLES 0 
~ c:!
0 0
Free Delivery
u z
$6 minimum purchase LIMIT ONE COUPON PER ORDER offer expires 12'3W7 $1 COUPON $1 


MENU Kickoff time necessitates Lobster Bisque-a change in meal hours Steamship Roast of Beef Broiled Marinated Chicken Brea~tI~~ I SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1987 Stuffed Trout Baked Stuffed Potato with Cheese•special hours UlfJV&a81TY P'OOD.aaYICK IIQT&I JIAMI Whole Kernel Corn Fresh Cauliflower and BroccoliBRUNCH 9:00 a.m. -1 :30 p.m. Assorted Hard RollsCANDLELIGHT DINNER BUFFET 5:45 p.m. -7:00 Salad Bar p.m. Fruit Compote Marinated MushroomsUniversity Food Services cordially Mint Chocolate Chip Ice Creaminvites you to participate in this SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1987 Pie Buffetcandlelight dinner buffet with the Notre Dame Studen.ts. Ticket price BRUNCH 10:00 a.m.· 1:30 p.m. is $6.00 per person for all DINNER 4:45p.m.-6:45p.m. you can eat at both North UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES I UNIVERSITY OF and South Dining Halls. NOTRE DAME  



AlDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
The Observer page 17 
Sports Briefs 
NO hockey action against Lake Forest can be Mike Moshier, the second baseman on the The deadline for rosters for the open flag 
heard live tonight beginning at 7 p.m. Sean Pieri Notre Dame baseball team, won the first annual football tournament has been extended to Tuesday, 
calls the action. -The Observer Jake Kline award. Given to the player who displays November 17. Sign-ups will be held in the NVA office the most skill, determination, dedication and hustle and the dining halls. -The Observer The men's basketball team will play an during fall drills, the Jake Kline award is named Sports Briefs are accepted In writing Sunday intrasquad scrimmage game tomorrow at 11: 30 after the man who coached the Irish baseball team 
through Friday in The Observer offices on the third 
a.m., prior to the ND-Alabama football game. -The from 1934 to 1975. -The Observer floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on 
Observer 
the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
passes this season. Freshman Tim Murphy has
Final 
"I don't know what we're been Dillon's main weapon, gonna do against them," said both running and occasionally
continued from page 20 
Dillon player-coach Jeff Mar-catching a pass. The receiving 
Added to the running attack gan. "(Theirs) is above and corps is led by Steve Murphy. is the best passing offense in beyond the quality of any other Dillon's two playoff games the league. Quarterback and Interhall offense." also have brought a coach AI Martin uses his strong Though Morgan would like placekicker to the limelight ­arm and a number of receivers people (especially Studs) to Mike Brammer. Brammer to add to the problems of op-take the Big Red lightly, his kicked the game-winning field posing defenses. Senior and team is certainly not weak. Dil­goal in the opening-round vic­first-year player John Sheehan lon doesn't share Stanford's tory over Flanner. has been the prime recipient of passing ability, but the Big Red The achilles' heel of the Big Martin's passes. The flanker running game is as strong as Red since the beginning of the has pulled in seven tochdown that of the Studs. season has been injuries. The 
linebacking corps has been changing each week, and other 
r----------------,
1 Use this coupon at 1 assorted injuries have kept the Big Red from full strength.I COUNTY MARKET I Sunday will be no different. We were close to full strength 
I to redeem $2.00 off our I Oast weekend)," said Morgan, "but we suffered some crucial
I 4 I
or 6 foot giant deli injuries. We were hoping to be fully prepared for Stanford, but I submarines 1 now we'll be playing five or six 
new starters." The biggest injury could be
I *orders must be I 
to Gary O'Brien. The Dillon 
linebacker has been in and out 
of the lineup all season, and he 
I placed 2 days in I 
finally seemed to be playing at full strength last weekend 06
I advance* I tackles). He was injured again against Pangborn, however, and will be out of the champi­onship game.
L----------------J 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 8:00PM 
MORRIS CIVIC ALJDn'ORIUM

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50

8:00 PM STEPAN CENTER 
11CKET8 Ol't SAU! MOI'fl>AY

(DOORS OPEN AT 7:00PM) 

1'lc:KITII AVM.AIIlZ AT THe cr.tC ~oox OPI'OC2. nKJHlWIND8 frii.D NID l'tOtmt IIUJIGIIWL). ...... 1011101111
TICKETS: $7.00 FOR STUDENTS ($8.00 PUBLIC)-A 
(BJUWft).NIDJ.R.'IM 
.,.....,.._

AT THE CELLAR 
""""~ 
1-.11......,110

SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOARD 
The night belongs to Michelob: 
Exceptionally smooth Michelob in T2-packs of 12 oz. bottles 
@Anheuser-Busch. Inc 
,I '.I 
---------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~---------~----­
page 18 
-

--.. 
Notre Dame basketball fans can catch their first glance of the year at senior point guard David Rivers when the Notre Dame men's and women's 
One Hundred Years of Notre Dame Football 
by Gene Schoor 
Introduction by Ara Parseghian Foreward by Johnny Lujack 
~ ------~--~ 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 198

The Observer 

Associated Press 
Pick a color. 

-Brown, as in Tim, wide receiver, running back, kick returner, Notre Dame. 
-Green, as in Gaston, running back, UCLA. 
-White, as in Lorenzo, run­ning back, Michigan State. Pick a letter. 
Rivalry 
continued from page 20 
I think the girls will be much more prepared." BP coach Dan DeBoer echoes the same words. 
"Defensively, we must stop their passing game. This means a total defensive effort, including a strong pass rush. 
On offense, I would like to es­tablish a strong running game, and balance that with our pass­ing attack. I think having a good balance is a definite key.'' 
Neither team is afraid to put the ball in the air, and both can score points in a hurry. Come Sunday afternoon one of these two dorms -rich in Interhall football tradition -will take an­other title back to North Quad. 

150 Photos Throughout 
Ultimate Tribute to America's Ultimate College Football Powerhouse 
Now Available 
$24.95 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 2nd Floor B~ok Dept. 
Hours -Sat. Nov. 13th 8 to 5 
L________________________________________________________ ---­

The Daily Crossword 

Friday Noon: Lecture "Traditional Gold Mining in Ghana: a critique of the Marxist model,"by Prof. Raymond Dumett, Purdue University, sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies, 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall (Satellite Room). 12:15-1 p.m.: Friday Forum for Faculty and Staff talk-discussion "High Speed Computing: Its Implications, Social as well as Technical," by Prof. Jack Dow, Freimann Professor, UND, Dept. of Physics, Center for Social Concerns, Room 124. 4 p.m.: Swimming NDM and NDW vs. Alabama, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 4-6 p.m.: Reception opening an art show, featuring mixed media collages by Marlene Zander Gutierrez from New Mexico. Isis Gallery of Riley Hall of Art Design. 4-6:30 p.m.: Notre Dame Senior Class Block Party, JACC Field House. 4:30p.m.: Lecture "Empowering Civilians in New Democracies: The Role of the Military in Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Spain," by Alfred Stepan, Co­lumbia University, sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies, 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 7:30p.m.: Volleyball NDW vs. Valparaiso University, JACC. 7:30p.m. & 9:45p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film, "Vagabonde," directed by Agnes Varda, France, Annenberg Auditorium. Saturday 8 a.m. -3 p.m.: National Teachers Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 9:30a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous closed meeting, sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Center for Social Concerns, multi-purpose room, Center for Social Concerns. 2 p.m.: SMC Basketball, National College of Education (scrimmage), Angela Athletic Facility. 2:45p.m.: Football ND vs. Alabama. 7:30p.m.: Volleyball NDW vs. Michigan State, JACC. Sunday 
1:30 p.m.: WWF Superstars of Wrestling, tickets $12 and $9, JACC. 
2 -4 p.m.: Opening art exhibitions, Annual Faculty Show, O'Shaughnessy Gallery West <until January 17,1988), and Bill Kremer: New York, O'Shaughnessy Gallery East (until January 17, 1988) Snite Museum of Art. 
4 p.m.: Music Department Concert, Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra Concert, Washington Hall. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Grilled Pastrami Sweet and Sour Pork 
Fried Fish Platter Corn Dogs Beef Pot Pie Broccoli Cheese Casserole Linguine & Vegetables Deli Bar 
Comics 
Bloom County 
ACROSS 1 Sepulcher 5 Dismay: var. 
10 Gluck of the 
opera 14 Venez. town 15 Rain forest 
vine 16 Swim place 17 Star of 
"Hardly 
Working" 19 Knitting stitch 20 Avenues 21 Finches 23 Swenson of 

"Benson" 24 Tablelands 25 Take out 28 Realtor charts 31 Single 32 Therefore 34 -flu 35 Statutes 37 Fur 39 Poet Pound 40 Ms Jong 42 Loamy deposit © 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
11/13/87
All Rights Reserved
44 Make boo­


boos 45 Renegade 7 Handles 47 Traverse clumsily 49 Country of 8 Blackbird 
Juan Carlos 9 Young ladles 50 Make repairs 10 Evaluate 51 Tea maker 11 Well-known 53 Narrowed US lawyer 
56 -about 12 Time of day 57 Lamb Chop's 13 "-well ... " friend 18 Backyard 
60 Cattle old gossip 
style 22 Como -? 61 Polson 24 Agnes De ­62 Posted 25 Meted 63 Poems 26 Finnish lake 64 In the red 27 Judge In the 65 Salver Hardy series 
28 Toll DOWN 29 Terl and 


1 -Mahal family 41 Soviet sea 52 Arthurlan lady2 Mine finds 30 Seine 43 Fr. 53 Cab 3 Comic Sahl 33 Early Gr. philosopher 54 Handled jug4 Creator of physician 46 Attaches 55 Merrill of 
"Peter Pan" 36 Emblems of 48 Troubled state movies 5 They accuse authority 50 Singer Bobby 58 In what 6 Michelangelo 38 Making a 51 "Mikado" way?
work of art getaway name 59 Pen 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

JAMES BOND THEIJVING DAYLIGHTS  SUB presents: The new James Bond...living on the edge. •• THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS• • 7:00, 9:30, 12:00am + FRIDAY & SATURDAY + $2.00 + Cushing Auditorium  

--..-..--------------.........-..........-_.,............_.-=.,...=--...-----------------------..,...,----...--"'-------· 
Sports
page 20 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1987 
lnterhall football finals set for ND Stadium 
r-­l f 
I 
.... 

The Observer I Jim Carroll and women's lnterhall championship games get under way Sunday afternoon In Notre Dame Stadium. 
Notre Dame not looking past anyone this weekend 
Stanford, Dillon live up to billing 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Entering the playoffs, they had to be considered the favorites. 
Three weeks and two rounds later, Stanford and Dillon are prepared to do battle on the grass of Notre Dame Stadium in the final of the men's Inter­hall football playoffs. 
The game will take place Sunday at 2:30 p.m., immedi­ately following the-women's final. 
Dillon will enter the game in an unfamiliar position -that of the underdog. Despite Dillqn's losing only one game (in seven efforts) and outscoring oppo­nents 77-21, Stanford has bet­tered Dillon on all counts. The Studs are sporting an un­blemished 5-0 record, and have scored 128 (yes, 128) points, while allowing just 13. 
When watching Stanford play, one characteristic stands out: a highly-advanced of­fense. The Studs usually begin games by simply pounding the ball at the defense behind a talented offensive line. Halfback Dan Diebel has keyed the running attack throughout the season. In last week's 26-7 dismantling of Fisher, Diebel ran for three touchdowns. 
see FINAL, page 17 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team is not looking past this weekend's competi­tion to its rematch with West­ern Michigan. 
But who could blame them if they did? 
The Irish will play host Mar­quette in the first half of a vol­leyball doubleheader this after­noon, followed by a visit by Valparaiso that evening. On Saturday, Michigan State comes to the Joyce ACC Pit. 
The Warriors, Crusaders and Spartans have a combined record of 14-58. 
Even so, the Irish, at 23-8 and ranked ninth in the NCAA 
1 \'10........ ­
~---~--­
~ 
i ~~:.:~ 
I I
1 
I : 
I I I I I I
·---­
BP, Farley meet again for the title 
By JEFF HEILERT Sports Writer 
You play to have fun, but it's a lot more fun to win. 
Talk to any Farley or Breen­Phillips resident and you'll probably hear something like that. 
When the two dorms meet in the women's Interhall football final Sunday afternoon at 1 in Notre Dame Stadium, a lot will be on the line. 
Playing in the finals is noth­ing new to these teams. Last year they met, with Farley win­ning its third-consectutive title, 18-8. BP, however, partially avenged that loss with an ex­citing 24-22 victory during the regular season. 
This time around a lot more is at stake. Farley has the op­portunity to win a unpreci­dented fourth-consecutive title. BP hopes to start a title string of its own. 
The keys to the game? 
"Last time they defensed our option extremely well," said Farley coach Tom Doran, "but the pass worked well. This time around, I think they (BP) may be concentrating more on our j passing game. We have been working hard on our option at­tack to counter. 
"Defensively, we know what they are going to run this time. 
see RIVALRY, page 18 

Mideast Regional Poll, are con­centrating on the task at hand. 
"It is extremely important that we play well this weekend," said Head Coach Art Lambert, "particularly be­cause of Tuesday." 
(Tuesday is when the Irish travel to Western Michigan. But other things come first.) 
The Irish hold a 3-0 advan­tage in series play with Mar­quette (currently 4-17), with the Irish sweeping the War­riors, 15-8, 15-2, 15-2, last season. A win would keep the Irish record unblemished against North Star Conference opponents. 
Against Valparaiso (7-21), Notre Dame is 7-2 over the years, including seven straight victories dating back to 1981. 
The Irish also swept the Crusaders last season, 15-9, 15­2, 15-2, but did allow them one more point than they allowed Marquette. 
"We don't know much about Marquette and Valparaiso," said Lambert. "They have not been doing well." 
More of a challenge to Lam­bert's team will be Michigan State. 
"The Big Ten factor lives with us," said Lambert. "We're right in the middle of them. We have to play them and do well against them." 
The Irish are 4-3 against the Big Ten this year, and the Spar­tans are not among the elite of the conference, currently pos­ting a record of 3-20. -"Michigan State has got some good people,'' said Lam-this weekena·s acuon. 1\ wm un bert. "I'm surprised they're the road against one of the top not doing better. They have a 20 teams in the nation would good coach. They are much bet-look good to the tournament se­ter than their record shows." lection committee. 
Although Lambert says the "Our tourney hopes are not Irish will have no endurance as bright as they once were," troubles with playing two said Lambert. "But lots of matches on Friday, he does things can happen. The season have some concern about his is not over. team's level of play. "There is too much emphasis 
"We have a tendency to play placed on the tournament at our opponent's level. We during the season. We could need to play at our level of abil-still move up.'' ity, not theirs," he said. So the Irish will concentrate 
The weekend's action is im-on raising their record to 26-8 portant to the Irish because, against the teams no one is despite some recent problems, looking past. All the matches the team is still fighting for an will be in the Joyce ACC Pit, NCAA tournament bid. That is except the Western Michigan why the Western Michigan game, which is on the road. match is so important, al-But no one is looking forward though no one is looking past to that. 
I I

Yes, you can get the campus news and sports coverage that students 1 get every day. Subscribe to The Observer, the independent student I newspaper serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. : 

send to: 
Name Please enclose $35 for the 
The Observer 

t_bSirta•R"~~~ 
...• -· 
Address remainder of the school year 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

City State Zip 


I 
L I 



