
ND moment -page 6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 82 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Irish topple No. 1 Tar Heels 
Rivers, Voce key 60-58 comeback 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Plain and simple, Notre Dame's 60-58 victory over number-one North Carolina Sunday was a Notre Dame Moment. It was one of those games that goes from the sports pages to the his­tory books. 
The Irish, down as many as 16 in the first half, fought and scrapped their way to victory. David Rivers' jumper from inside the foul line put the Irish ahead to stay with 1 :06 left to play, and then the Irish hung on despite the Tar Heels and their own fans. 
"We didn't crack when it was time for us to crack, and that's a sign of 
More coverage, pages 8, 16 

maturity," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps, whose squad's record rose to 12-5. "We've lost four games -to Indiana, DePaul, West Vir­ginia and UCLA-all in the last minute. But I told the kids, 'You can play with anybody,' and today was an opportu­nity for us to go for our moment. That's just something we're very good at here at Notre Dame -knocking off top­The ranked teams. I knew if we stayed with 
Irish defeated the Tar Heels in an upset , 60-58. See story 
it we were going to get it done, even

at right. · 
with the technical at the end. 
"We really wanted to win this game. Carolina's a great team, and (North Carolina head coach) Dean Smith's a

Indicted suspect to turn himself in today 
great coach. They'll be in the Final 

Four. We just did some things at the By MARK PANKOWSKI connection with Cogswell's death was injuries 10 hours after being struck by end and got away with it. That's what News Editor indicted. a car on Dec. 6. Following the accident, worked for us today, and we made the 
A source, however, said the 21-year­a 21-year-old student was arrested on key foul shots at the end." 
The person indicted by a county old student will be charged with a mis­the charge of driving while intoxicated. It was a day the Irish were not to be grand jury in connection with a fatal demeanor. The prosecutor's office did not charge denied. Four free throws by Rivers and traffic accident will turn himself in to County Prosecutor Michael Barnes the student, but instead sent the case Gary Voce at the end sealed the win. authorities today, the county prosecu­said information about the indictment to the grand jury for review. Both played the final nine minutes of tor's office said. won't be released until the person The student was then subpoenaed to the game with four fouls. Phelps wasn't 
charged is arrested. testify at the grand-jury hearing, which about to take out his established and 
The St. Joseph County grand jury was closed to the public. The student, rising stars. returned the indictment on Thursday, The prosecutor's office said plans . however, said he did not testify. Instead, he switched to a 1-3-1 zone, one day after it reviewed three fatal have been made for the person to turn After the accident, police said the stu­and the Irish got back in it. traffic accidents, including the one that himself in today, when his attorney dent told them he was driving east on "They went to a zone, and we had resulted in junior Michael Cogswell's would be available. Saint Mary's Road, stopped at a stop some open shots," said Smith. "We just death. On Wednesday, the grand jury lis­sign, then went forward and hit an un­didn't make them. They wouldn't have 
tened to testimony and reviewed police known object. gone to a zone if it weren't for foul trou­
Because the grand jury's indictment records in three accidents. One of Cogswell's roommates said ble. It worked." was sealed, it wasn't known whether One of those accidents involved Cogswell was walking with two friends the Notre Dame student arrested in Cogswell, who died from massive head when he was struck. see UPSET, page 11 
Chairman visits South Bend to kick off Special OlympiCs 
By JOE MURPHY the largest sporting event on a The number of participants director of marketing and ketball, soccer, equestrian, Editor-in-Chief university campus." from foreign countries in 1979 public relations of the ISSOG. weightlifting, and tennis. The ISSOG will be held this was 150. In 1983, it was 800. In Among those celebrities Representatives to the 
Eunice Kennedy Shriver, summer on the Notre Dame 1987, it's 1,350," she said. coming to the games, Shriver games are exepected to come founder and chairman of Spe­and Saint Mary's campuses Added Executive Director of said, will be Whitney Houston, from such countries as China, cial Olympics International, from July 31 to Aug. 8. More ISSOG Committee William Jane Fonda, who will host Cuba, Nepal, Yugoslavia, and visited South Bend Friday to than 4,700 athletes and about Bankhead: "We feel like we aerobic clinics, Maria Shriver Suriname. launch the final six-month 15,000 volunteers are expected have brought the greatest ath-Schwarzenegger and her hus-The ISSOG has an operating campaign toward the VII Inter­to attend the games. letic event in the world to the band, Arnold, who will run the budget of $4.8 million which is national Summer Special "We have grown a great deal greatest athletic facilities in weight clinics. expected to be a boost to the Olympic Games. over the last four years, espe-the world." "And we have Frank Gifford South Bend community, said 
cially internationally," said Shriver also was in South who will be doing a 'Wide World Minich. 
"This is the largest sporting Shriver, speaking at a press Bend to plan the opening of Sports' special show which The funding for the ISSOG event for the mentally retarded conference. ceremonies which will be held will be an hour and one-half. comes from individual and cor­ever," said Shriver, the sister "ln 1979, we had 14 countries in the Notre Dame Stadium That will be shown Aug. 10," porate donations. So far, of the late President John F. represented in the Special before 60,000 people and a na-said Shriver. Bankhead said, the ISSOG has Kennedy. Olympic Games. In 1983, we tiona! television audience, ac-The games are composed of raised 80 percent of its $4.8 mil­
"This year, (ISSOG) is also had 50. And in 1987, we have 65. cording to Michael Minich, 14 competitions including bas-lion goal. 
The ACC crowd craving an Irish win is transformed into a radical rally as students get riled up after Sunday's basketball game against No. 1 North Carolina when the 
Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 2 

The Observer 

In Brief 
Campus advertising is going to pot at Pennsylvania State University. State College Headliners is a new, student-run firm selling advertising space in public bathrooms. "It's a clever way to reach people when they are most vulnerable," said one business owner who's placed ads in his restrooms. Restroom owners receive a · 10% commission on each advertising board. -The Observer 
Three 17-year-olds, one possessing a handgun stolen earlier this year, were arrested late Thursday 'by Security, according to Phil Johnson, assistant security director. The youth~ also had in their possession tools frequently used in burglaries and items taken from a stu­dent's car in the campus' D6 parking lot. The three were detained in the parking lot after Security received a report from a Notre Dame student that a suspicious vehicle was in the lot. -The Observer 
An American reporter has been detained in Iran, the Swiss Foreign Ministry said Sunday, and hours after his detention the Iranian news agency said a person posing as a journalist had been accused of spying. Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency ORNA) said Saturday night a "spy of the Zionist regime" had been arrested after entering the country with a false passport and dis­guised as a journalist. It did not identify the person by name or nationality. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
The Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series continues tonight with a lecture by Barbara Charlesworth Gelti, an English professor at Stanford University. The title of her lecture is "From One Identity to Another: A Kristevan Reading of Percy Bysshe Shelley." The lecture, which is sponsored by the English department and the College of Arts and Letters, will be at 7:30 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. A reception will follow in the library lounge. -The Observer 
Pluralism and repression in China will be the subject of a Kellogg Seminar lecture by Peter Moody, professor of government and international studies at Notre Dame, at 12 p.m. Tuesday at 131 Decio. -The Observer 
"Visual Dialogue/' a graphic design invitational featuring work by University designers and educators, will run today through Feb. 20 in The Isis Gallery on the third floor of Riley Hall of Art and Design. There will be an opening reception tonight from 7-9 in the gallery. Gallery hours are 8:30-5 Monday through Friday. -The Observer 
A special Mass for the Feast of the Presentation, will be celebrated tonight by Father Edward Malloy, at 5 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Church starting with the blessing and distribution of candles at the Lady Chapel. Music will i:>e provided by members of Notre Dame's Chapel and Folk Choirs. -The Observer 

Weather 
It'sGroundHogDayandwhether or not Mr. Ground Hog sees his shadow, spring could be just around the corner with sunny skies and high in the forty's today. It will, however, be colder tonight with the high in only the 20s. Oh well, South Bend will be South Bend. 


Design Editor .............. Melissa Warnke Design Assistant ...... Chris Donnelly Typesetter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Mclaughlin .......................................... Daniel Cahill News Editor......... . ... Jim Riley Copy Editor....................... Karen Webb Sports Copy Editor ......... Rick Rietbrock Viewpoint Copy Editor.. . Matt Guye Viewpoint Layout . . . . . . . . . Melinda Murphy Accent Copy Editor .... Caroline Gillespie Accent Layout .......... Jane Anne Riedford Typist . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor.. . ..... Laurine Megna SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Photographer... . ............ Greg Kohs .......................................... Robert Jones 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Unfortunate incidents mar the finish of a great victory 
WOW! 
It was a victory worth savoring. Or was it? 
Three incidents occurred yesterday that took away some of the satisfaction out of Notre Dame's incredible win over number--one ranked North Carolina. To me, when a few stu­dents shouted a racial slur at an opponent, threw objects at the referees and tossed food around the dining halls, they embarrassed the Notre Dame student body. 
The first incident happened before the game even began. Flyers distributed around the stu­dent section instructed the fans to shout a phrase upon the introduction of each of Carolina's starting line--up. So, when the second player was announced, he was welcomed with the shouts of "Sit down, white boy!" 
My heart sank when l heard it. I hoped to God that the TV audience had not picked it up back home. 
What some would consider to be an innocent remark was, in fact, an embarrassment to the school. One must ask why it was necessary to taunt an opponent by making reference to the color of his skin. 
What was meant by "Sit down, white boy?" I can only take it to mean that only blacks are fit to play basketball and that one's skin color determines success in that sport. Furthermore, anyone from the South could tell you how loaded the term, "boy" is when talking about race. 
To whoever authored the flyers, I would like to know why race had to be injected into good, clean athletic entertainment. Frankly, when I watch basketball, I don't care whether the players are black or white, I go to see good basketball. It's obvious that the creators of the the flyer had something else in mind. It's also obvious that Minority Awareness Week held on campus just last week had no effect on student attitudes concerning racial issues. 
The second incident could have lost the game for the Irish. It really came home to me how many idiots attend this school when I saw a torrent of blue and gold placards descending on the court. Of course they knew it would stop the game. Of course they knew it would in­furiate Digger. But they did it anyway. 
No, in the end the technical foul didn't hurt us. But, imagine if just one Notre Dame field goal had been erased from the scoreboard. It could have happened. 
The third disappointing incident has hap­pened before and, I suppose, will happen again. What seems like harmless fun turned into a dangerous game of glass flying in all directions. The food fight that occurred in B-section of 
Chris Bowler 
Managing Editor 

North Dining hall left glass scattered over a large area of the floor. Is it any wonder that the residents of South Bend, like those who live in the Northeast Neighborhood, think of us as kids rather than adults? 
Let me be clear: I think that a general celebration was definitely in order yesterday. The team and the school deserved it. But I wonder whether many of us have too much pent up emotions waiting to burst into immature and destructive behavior. Celebrating and showing school solidarity is great --until someone gets hurt. The point is, these seemingly minor ac­tions have real and unintended consequences. At the very best, these students who shouted a • racial slur didn't know what they were saying --in which case they came off as unthinking. At worst, they knew exactly what they were saying --a proposition that I won't even consider. In any case, Notre Dame's student body ends up looking bad. For a moment, just a short mo­ment, one could catch a glimpse of who some of the students are who attend Notre Dame. 
The events I noticed Sunday don't dampen the exhilaration that I felt as the clock ran out and Notre Dame was on top. An ND moment had occurred. 
It was the kind of Notre Dame moment that I wouldn't mind repeating next time --but with a few less idiots in attendance. 

Observers: 
Telxon will hold an open house at the Morris Inn on February 5 and will be in­terviewing 1987 graduates on February 6 for growth­generated positions. 
Telxon is a high-tech com­pany manufacturing hand­


held micro computers and accessories and developing custom software and communications packages. With a compounded growth rate of over 30% for the last five years. Telxon provides an exceptional environment for growth in an exploding arena. 

Eye Exams


ProfessionalVISion 
Large Selection of Frames

Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 



20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1635 N.lronwood  1341 Portage  
277-1161  234-2400  
South of U.S. 23  Martins Shopping Center  


----------------------~--------------------------~~-----~--~--------­
The Observer Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 3 
Filipinos vote on new constitution after failed coup try 


Low-key communications begin as leaders look for Waite 
Associated Press of Syrian and Iranian emis­land. Both men were abducted main power-broker in Lebanor, the Indian unless Israel freed saries are shuttling back and in 1985. and has about 25,000 soldiers in 400 Arab prisoners and flew 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Inten­forth." Various reports have said north and east Lebanon under them to Syria on a Red Cross sive "hush-hush" negotiations Waite may have been taken a 1976 Arab League peacekeep­plane within one week. involving Syria, Iran and Waite, personal emissary of prisoner. ing mandate. In Tel Aviv, Israeli Defense Lebanese militia leaders have Archbishop of Canterbury "The lack of direct word Druse leader Walid Jumblatt, Minister Yitzhak Rabin on Sun­started to determine the fate of Robert Runcie, flew to Beirut from Mr. Waite since his dis­whose militia was in charge of day rejected the group's missing hostage negotiator Jan. 12 on his fifth trip to appearance two weeks ago has Waite's security, offered him­demand, saying Israel will not Terry Waite and to ensure his Lebanon to win freedom for alarmed all sides concerned self as a hostage Saturday to act as an "international bank" safety, a senior militia official foreign hostages. and every effort is being made replace Waite if reports of his for terrorists. said Sunday. The Anglican Church envoy to find out about him," said the abduction were true. The threat to kill hostages 
"These hush-hush talks are has not been seen publicly since knowledgable militia source. But the Church of England came in a handwritten note in high gear," said the official, he left the Riviera Hotel in west said Waite left strict instruc­signed Islamic Jihad for the who spoke on condition of Beirut on Jan. 20, presumably Iran is believed to wield in­tions forbidding any rescue Liberation of Palestine. It was anonymity. "The parties con­to negotiate with Islamic Jihad, fluence with some of the groups mission, ransom payment or delivered to a Western news cerned are burning up the a pro-Iranian Shiite faction in Lebanon that have claimed substitution of hostages if he agency and a Beirut newspaper (telephone) wires trying to en­that holds Americans Terry responsibility for abducting was kidnapped. along with photos of two Amer­sure Mr. Waite's safety. Plenty Anderson and Thomas Suther-Western hostages. Syria is the A church statement about ican captives among four 
Waite's message was issued educators kidnapped at Beirut after London's Sunday Express University College on Jan. 24. reported that "Beirut terror­The pictures showed Jesse ists" were demanding a ran­Turner, 39, of Boise, Idaho, a som of $4 million for Waite's visiting professor of mathema­release. tics and computer science; and 
Runde also said Sunday he Alann Steen, 47, a native of Bos­had no "fresh news" about ton, a communications instruc­Waite. "I have had some con­tor. tact yesterday (Saturday), in­They were kidnapped along directly. I am very anxious with Robert Polhill, 53, of New about where he is," he said. York City, a lecturer in ac­
Eleven foreigners, including counting; and Mithileshwar three Americans, two West Singh, 60, a visiting professor Germans, an Indian and a of finance, an Indian native and Frenchman, have been kid­legal resident alien of the napped in Moslem west Beirut United States. since Waite's arrival. There now are 26 foreigners 
An underground group missing and presumed kid­threatened late Saturday night napped in Lebanon, including to kill the three Americans and eight Americans. 
NO/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE PRESENTS: 
«~:z~Godfatht:r•s Pizza(A) Find one. It's worth it 
Medium original single 
1


I ingredient pizza and 1J cheese bread ~ 1 
85.25 plus tax & deliv.~ Flod~ I
1 
''"..' ...,..,... ~21<11 II'S worth it. ' 
~---------------------
Goclfatber~ We Deliver to a Limited Area 
~Pizza. 52920 US 31 North ~ 277-5880 South Bend, IN 

AUTHOR AND PRIEST ' FATHER JOHN POWELL, S.J. author of FULLY HUMAN. FULLY All VE and WHY AM I AFRAID TO LOVE 
speaking 00: 
"Life, the Greatest Gift" WEONESOAY. FEB 1 AT 7:30 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines Filipinos cast ballots today to approve or disapprove a new constitution. The voting was seen as a crucial test of strength for President Corazon Aquino's 11-month-old admin­istration. 
Small explosions within 20 minutes occurred at three loca­tions in Manila the night before the plebiscite, but no one was injured, private radio station DZRH said. 
The explosions, apparently from homemade bombs, were at the San Roque Roman Cath­olic Church, a bookstore and in a vacant lot about 200 yards from the DZRH studios, accor­ding to the broadcast. Police 
Explosions rock Manila, troops on alert to prevent trouble 
said they had no suspects. results from the Manila area formed that massive cheating 
Also Sunday night, Manila by midnight (11 a.m. Monday and fraud has already hap­police arrested two men and EST). pened." He claimed lower level seized 120 sticks of dynamite Ramon Felipe, chairman of government workers had been after learning of a plot to dis­the Commission on Elections, offered 100 pesos (about $5) rupt the voting. predicted an 80 percent turnout each to vote for the document. 
The military put 79 battalions of the 25 million registered The proposed 20,000-word on alert to prevent trouble voters. charter was completed in Oc­during the nationwide voting, The plebiscite marked the tober by a 48-member commis­which came days after the gov­first time Aquino went to the sion Aquino appointed despite ernment put down a military electorate for a show of support opposition from both leftist and coup attempt by supporters of since the "people power revo­rightist critics. former President Ferdinand lution" swept her to power in The plebiscite asks voters to Marcos. February 1986 following con­respond "yes" or "no" to the 
Polls were open from 7 a.m. tested presidential elections. question: "Do you vote for the to 3 p.m. (6 p.m. Sunday to 1 That uprising forced Marcos to approval of the Constitution of 
a.m. Monday EST). Nation­abandon the presidency after the Republic of the Philippines wide results were not expected 20 years and flee into exile in as proposed by the Constitu­for days, but the private Na­Hawaii. tional Commission." tional Movement for Free Elec­Marcos said Sunday in The constitution would tions said it expected definitive Honolulu that, "I have been in-sharply reduce the power of the president, re-establish a two­
chamber legislature, guaran­tee civil rights and ban the mil­itary from political activity other than voting. It would con­firm Aquino in the presidency for a six-year term. 
Presidential spokesman Teodoro Benigno has said the plebiscite was a "vote of confi­dence in Corazon Aquino" and an approval margin below 60 percent would spell trouble. 
Former Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile campaigned against the charter. His Coali­tion of Democratic Action predicted a 60 percent "no" vote unless the government "rigs the election." 
It was unclear what would happen if the proposal is rejected. 

~-~ ~-----~--..-;....-r-....---~------,--~--~----~~-~-------------­
The Observer 

Senate Majority leader Robert Byrd poses with other Congressional leaders after a Transylvanian style outside the Whitehouse meeting with President Reagan. 
Dooley winner tells of hardships 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO 
Staff Reporter 
For 1987 Tom Dooley Award winner Michael Novell, working in the Philippines as director of the Save Our Children program and as a Peace Corps volunteer have been difficult but rewarding ex­periences. 
Novell spoke about these ex­periences Friday afternoon at the Center for Social Concerns. 
"It was a very intense period of my life. My wife was working with me and it was very, very hard. The things you read about, the tortures, the people being abused were true. A lot of horrible things hap­pened." 
Novell, a 1975 graduate of Notre Dame, joined the Peace Corps after his graduation and worked for three years in the Phillipines. He spent most of that time working at a rural health unit that served over 29,000 people. 
"Conditions there are quite different from what you would find in developed countries. One time for five months there were only two of us there: myself and a sanitation ex­pert," Novell said. 
Despite the hardships of working in an underdeveloped an~'l, Novell found the work rewarding. 
"It was a good experience for me because during that time I made the decision to stay in the field of what we would call community development." 
Novell returned to the United States for graduate studies in public health at UCLA. It was during this time that he joined Save The Children. His first as­signment took him to Southeast Asia where he worked for two and a half years in the refugee program. Novell worked for six months as a nutrition program manager. He eventually be­came director of the program which included a language and cultural orientation program for those refugees who would be migrating to the United States. 
Novell returned to the Phil­lipines five years ago to start a new project in community de­velopment. His associates are currently working with three sites: one in a lowland rice farming area; one in a moun­tain area with an ethnic minority group; and one that is being started in Manila. 
Some of the goals of commu­nity development in these areas are "trying to decrease the death rate in terms of mal­nutrition. We have a commu­nity health workers program where you find someone who has basic reading and writing skills and someone who is will­ing to put in the time to teach them some low-level, simple areas of health," Novell said. 
"We're trying to increase rice production through the use of agricultural credit, giving a commodity loan. We work through farmer's aides; these are farmers who have a sixth grade or high school education and what they do is they act as a middle man with our staff," he said. 
The Save The Children pro­gram also works with women in expanding their role in the community, Novell said. 
"What we are trying to do is to improve the lives of children and their families and the com­munities in which they live through community self-help projects," he said. 
Save The Children depends mostly on nationals to run their programs in over 46 countries worldwide. 
Future plans for Save The Children are to locate new sites for community development in the countries that they are already in. Save The Children is also conducting extensive refugee assistance programs in Ethiopia, Somalia and Sudan. 
Novell said that Notre Dame influenced his going into com­munity service and helping other people. 
"One of the things I left with, it wasn't clearly imprinted in my head, but I had this feeling that it was extremely impor­tant to keep thinking what it meant to be a part of the com­munity and a member of a group," Novell said. 
"Look at the alumni group, that's a community, that's a group of people working to­gether. The more I thought about it, the more I saw how it pertained to everything you do in life." said Novell. 
Novell said he was "surprised" at being given the Tom Dooley Award. 
"I haven't had contact with the University for so long." 
ND AVE APTS. 
arly Bird Special--• 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 


~~~tQ>~<Q->~~<Q-> 
JW{JO!l(P.9J!l{.t£9{rr.5' WEt£~9{fJJ § fJJI9{9{t£9(.Ji12{fJJ fJ'5I13£i£ ~1 !l(t£(jIS~5lfJ'IO'J{S § 
Monaay, !Feoruary 2"" ana ~ rruesaay, ![eoruary 3rt/ § 7-10 P.M. ~ 9{fJJ !JWom, 2"" ![Coor £a!fortune § 
You tfo not have to sit witli tKt same peop{e for 6runcli arui tlinner. Jtssign'tnents wi£[ 6e tfone rantfom(y 6y a computer. (jroups of9 Preferretf. 
Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 4 

Congress ready to override Reagan's water bill veto 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan faces a major spending defeat this week if Congress, as expected, overrides his second veto in three months of popular $20 billion clean-water legislation. 
Nobody, least of all the pres­ident, will be surprised by the pending House and Senate votes over an aid-to-the-states issue that Reagan says is the "first great battle of the (budget) deficit in the 100th Congress." 
"I know this veto is going to be overridden," he said Friday at a ceremony that contrasted markedly with the quiet pocket-veto he used last Nov. 6 to scuttle an identical bill after Congress had left town and was unable to take override votes. 
There is one element of suspense this week on Capitol Hill: Will the House follow the lead of the Senate and reject a proposal to add $12,100 to the annual $77,400 congressional salary? 
Unless the House rejects them by midnight Tuesday, the raises, recommended by Reagan, are automatic for law­makers, federal judges, the Cabinet and top-level bureaucrats. The House won't start hearings on the issue until Monday, and the question isn't yet on the floor debate agenda. 


IfTh~ Won't Tell You About It,Then You :Know It Must Be Great. 
Purple Passion. Out of the bathtub, into the can, and onto the shelves of your favorite store. Discover it for yourself. 
Bottled for World Wide Dislllled Products Company By fkvtra&t Concepts. Sli.Duis. Mo 63108 15 Proof 

Monday, February 2, 1987-page 5 

The Observer 
USX workers ratify contract, return to their jobs today 
·t:ounting on a big win 
United Steelworkers in Lorain, Ohio count voting was 4-1 in favor of accepting the new USW-USX Corp. ratification ballots in Pit­contract in the Lorain local. tsburgh Saturday. A USW spokesman said the 
UAWsigns new contract with Deere 
Associated Press 
MOLINE, Ill. -United Auto Workers union members representing more than 12,000 workers in six states on Sunday approved a contract with Deere & Co., ending a five­month work stoppage, the union said. 
Members of 14 locals at 13 idled facilities, most in Iowa and Illinois, voted more than 75 percent in favor of the pact, said UAW Vice President Bill Casstevens. 
He did not provide vote totals on the contract, which is to run through Sept. 30, 1988. At least one local voted against it. 
The contract, which con­cludes the longest work stop­page ever at the farm­equipment company, includes job security provisions but no immediate wage increase, said union spokesman Karl Man­tyla. 
Deere has committed $14.4 million to establish a "protected employee group" similar to one established last year in a contract with Peoria­based Caterpillar Inc., said Mantyla. 
Anti-Violence Activist 
Center lor Teaching Non·VIolence & NCTV lull· time stall• Lodging & 
~00/mo. Research on aggression, 
publishing & lobbying against violtince 
In TV, fllm, war toys, aporta, erotica, etc. Non-violent films. Na.t to u Illinois. Student loans deferable. 217-3&4·1920. 
P.O. Bo• 2157, Champa>gn IL 61820 
Word Processing 
by 
Shirley Gill is 683-6676 
Call anytime after 
6pm 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH United Steelworkers members, ending a six-month work stoppage at USX Corp. plants, begin re­turning to work today under a newly ratified contract that swaps pay concessions for job security. 
After a day of counting bal­lots, union officials announced late Saturday that their mem­bers had ratified the four-year contract by a vote of 19,621 to 4,045. 
The industry's longest work 
stoppage  ended  on  its  184th  
day.  
"We're  pleased  that  our  

employees have ratified the contract," said David Roderick, chairman of the na­tion's largest steelmaker. "Now we can get about the business of supplying the cus­tomers." 
But owing to poor business conditions that forced USX, formerly U.S. Steel, and five major competitors before it to negotiate labor concessions, work at 25 USX plants in nine states will resume only as or­ders warrant. 
"It will not be an immediate recall of all the people," said James McGeehan, chief union negotiator. 
Workers were to be called for orientation briefings Monday and production would resume within several weeks at the company's biggest operations, the Gary Works in Indiana, the Mon Valley Works near Pit­tsburgh, the Fairless Hills Works near Philadelphia, the Lorain Works in Ohio, and the South Works at Chicago, said USX spokesman Thomas Far­rell. 
Production at the Fairfield Works near Birmingham, Ala., was to resume in late February or early March, he said. Insuf­ficient orders would delay the restart of plants at Orem, utah, and Baytown, Texas. 
USX also has steel or iron ore plants covered by the pact in Minnesota and Michigan. 

Key 
Opportunities 
TRW 
Will Be 
On Campus: 
Feb.12-13 
The future is under your fingertips. And TRW may hold the keys to your future. Our Electronics and Defense Sector can offer you a seemingly endless choice of op­portunities. Opportunities in Microelectronics, high energy lasers, large software systems, communications and scientific spacecraft. 
With your ideas, TRW will con­
tinue to make firm impressions in the future. Key into tomorrow's Electronics technology today. & Defense Sector 
TRW Inc. 1987. TRW is the name and mark of TRW Inc. 
Please see your Campus Place­ment office for additional information. 
Tomorrow is taking shape at a company called TRW. 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required 

~~·-·
,,,•• 
._.... .... 
' 
"ieVV~_O_i_n_t_____________
Mon-day,F-ebru-ary2,_1987---pages 

Way to go, Irish! 
Notre Dame's 60-58 victory over North Caroljna Sunday will live forever as a Notre Dame moment. It was one of those games that comes along once in a lifetime. 
Sunday's game helped ease the pain of several years of missed chances, close losses and losing seasons which have haunted Notr~ Dame athletics in recent years. Sunday, a Notre Dame team hung tough against the number-one team in the nation and with the game on the line, these Irish pulled out a win. 
When the horn sounded to end the game, Notre Dame erupted. The students mobbed the court, celebrating a game that they had been as much a part of as anyone who played. Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps said afterward that although NBC named Gary Voce the game's MVP, the student body deserved to be named second. 
But at the end, those same fans came close to taking the game from the players they had so ably supported. From pregame warm-ups to well after the game was over, the fans had rattled the Tar Heels while exhorting the Irish. Then, they celebrated too early by throwing their ND placards on the court, which cost the Irish a technical foul. This action did not show the rest of the nation the class that Notre Dame students really possess. Moreover, it almost cost the Irish the game. 
But Sunday was a day fated for the Irish. They made the key plays and free throws necessary to make the game a Notre Dame moment. This season's edition of the Irish proved true the words Phelps spoke to a different squad six years ago, "Nobody leaves Notre Dame number one." 
The Notre Dame students, despite their one trespass, proved to the world what we have known for a long time: We AreND. 
-The Observer 

Doonesbury 
IT'S NICE 70 HAV&  TEN5f..2  YaJ IXJITK/VWABOUT  TH8 MON&Y5 (j()JN6 FOR A 6001J  
YOU HOM8, [)tAR.  OVE3R  0/?.Al. R08CI<!5',um'MA111NP.t  CAIJ$e-MWCAL M!SS!OfiAR/ES­ 
7HING5HAV&8EEN 50"1'CNSE/N 7VLSA  /A/HAT,Maw  HHAIIJCNTV 7Ui11"r.tJI)ULJ<;Imfi!EATENw /UI<.I/L/"1/WI  8UTIT5££M5l.IKE 5(){}{ ANA­BIJ5f. OFPrJIJI&R R?aH60{). 7HI3J?&  
!AlUY...  \  \  HE {)(E5N'TJQ4J'>CNI.. ~!YliL­ H/llj 70 8C A BeTTER tUAYR:RHIM  
l.ION  

[ P_.o_.B_o_x_Q 
Chants lessen quality of supportive crowd 
Dear Editor: 

The victory over top-ranked North Carolina is one that will be savored for years, no doubt. The ·students' ·partici­pation and support played a postive role in it. Yet as we enter the month of February, set off to recognize the con­tributions of blacks to this country's history, I do not feel that the chants welcoming Carolina's starting lineup were appropriate as a beginning. "Sit down, white boy! Your mama! Two plus two equals five, right J .R.?" Such statements as these might be less dis­appointing if they were coming from the mouths of racially uneducated people but not from future leaders in our government and corporate America. Though the students probably felt that these chants were innocuous, I found them quite condescending. The black student-athletes that have graduated and will graduate from Notre Dame are not the only blacks that can do well academically. While I am sure that J.R. Reid can add and read, contrary to a particular chant, I also feel confident that tutors on most col­lege campuses do not work exclusively for the benefit of minorities, either stu­dents or athletes. 
A large part of the college experience comes from those things learned out­side of the classsroom. I would hope that those students so vocal in support­ing the Irish are as energetic in chal­lenging generalities they might foster about others. Toward this goal various activities have been planned for Black History Month to help complete our col­lege education. 
Marvin H. Lett Morrissey Hall 
Sailors deserve credit for work in victories 
Dear Editor: 
I was extremely disappointed with Marty Burns' article, "Please blow away Stars and Stripes, forever." Burns displayed a surprising lack of knowledge about the America's Cup. To those who have ever been to a real beach or wish they had, sailing is an enjoyable sport. 
Burns maintains that the "private beaches along the Eastern seaboard" choked on their caviar, formed a synd­icate, and rehired Dennis Connor to bring the America's Cup back. Obvi­ously, Burns did not do his homework. Connor is based in San Diego, Califor­nia, well over 2,500 miles from the East Coast. He was not alone on the West Coast, as Newport Beach, California also had a boat called "The Eagle." In fact, these syndicates are funded by corporate sponsorship, not the skip­pers' pocketbooks. The yachts come from numerous cities and countries to compete in the "Super Bowl" of sailing. Did you forget about "French Kiss" and "Italy", who were eliminated ear­lier? 
I and many other Americans hope that Dennis Connor and "Stars and Stripes" do recapture the America's Cup. This is something we, as Americans, can be proud of. 
Bob Huston Flanner Hall 

Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a dif­ference. Write to P .O.Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
Garry Trudeau 
&SPECIALLY fA/ELL, Y85. 7HINK IN THIS OF IKJfAIN/CEl.YMARJ(CT. HE{{){1J}W \ IN FUTURES. I 
Worth repeating 
"People don't think you're that good; the country doesn't think you're that good. Now let's show the nation just what we have. They'll believe nobody ever comes to Notre Dame number one and leaves that way." 
j 
Richard "Digger" Phelps "Digger Phelps and Notre Dame Basket­
ball" 
1981 
General Board 

Ihe Obsenrer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the vle...,s of their authors. Column News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt space is available to all members of the commu'nity and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1968 

Accent 
Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 7 

S~ap 
Dirk. In reality, Jenny had been sleeping with Kyle from "All My Children" so Dirk and George both ended up getting chumped. Katherine got her trendy new haircut caught in the fan belt of her Porsche and Carl saved her by cutting It off at the roots. Kat­herine took this as a sign of af­fection and they made pas­sionate love In a Laundromat. 
As the World Turns--Angela was concerned over Blff's In­creasing infatuation with stamp collecting. Tonia and Craig went on their honeymoon and Tonia had an affair with the boy who brought room service. Craig wanted to have an affair with the boy who brought room service too but Tonia told him that the boy was "all mine and you can't have him. He gives me someth­Ing you never could and anyway you're a ... a .... creepi" 
Capitol--Everybody died. 
Dallas--Bobby and Pam or­dered a set of Ginsu knives from a television commercial. J.R. confessed his love for Donna and Donna confessed her love for Bobby and Pam's set of Glnsu knives. Sue Ellen realized that there was no God and in response to this she decided to Indulge her favorite fantasy· run­ning nude through the streets of Dallas. 
Days ofour Lives--Patrick con­tinued to question Melissa's mental state. Melissa said, ''I'm not crazy, I'mjust crazy for you." Then she stepped around the corner to Burger King and shot with Carl's BMW. Then she ran 
over Carl with Carl's BMW. Carl 
survived but got picked up by a 
UFO on his way out of the hospi­
tal. Yvonne got gum disease and 
John said, "''d rather kiss my 
cocker spaniel than you, 
Yvonne." Then Yvonne Informed 
John that she was going to have 
his child and John said, "Oh no 
you don't. No woman with green 
yechy stuffon her gums Is gonna 
have my child!" 
General ffospitai-·Dr. Harper accidentally left his college ring in Nora's vena cava during her open heart surgery. He decided to forget about it and go get a drink. Dr. Ralph's affair with Nurse Carlson ended when Nurse Carlson caught him fondling a pituitary gland. She said, "I al­ways knew you were a pituitary gland fondlerl" 
Ouidlng Light--Reva told Jack her true feelings and Jack said, "You might as well face lt. you're addicted . to love." Reva responded by saying. "Jack. I've been shot through the heart and you're to blame. And Turther­more you give love a bad name." Jack said, "Sorry baby, I didn't mean to turn you on." Reva said, "My name ain't baby, It's Reva. Miss Jackson If you're nasty." Getting the last word Jack said, "''ve made up my mind--i·m keeping my baby, oooh I'm gonna keep my baby yeaah, ooooh." 
Knot's Landing--Keith invited Don Knots to Knot's Landing. Jeremy got beat up for having such a stupid name. Angela joined a motorcycle gang and 
got tattooed in a really wierd 
place. Ben realized that some­
one had stolen all of his long 
underwear. 
· Louing--Muffy and Buffy fell In 
love and consummated their 
passion by changing the oil in 
Buffy's Mercedes. Gwyneth told 
Harry that his hair was too long. 
Harry got mad and backhanded 
her across the right cheek. Later 
Harry felt bad and backhanded 
her across the left cheek just to 
even things up. Nancy decided 
that she wanted a child but later 
she decided she wanted a Snick­
er's Bar instead. 
One Life to Live--Max had warm feelings for Maggie but Maggie had much warmer feelings for Carl. Anna realized that Dick was dying and she begged him to leave the toaster oven to her when It was all over. Meanwhile, Max was still having warm feelings for Maggie. Lisa got food poisoning and had to have her stomach pumped. 
Ryan's ffope--Vlnce and Carla made love. Bob and Anna made love. Lynne and Mike made love. Georgina and Tom made love. Trisha and Ron made love. Tim and Moira didn't make love but they did get pretty excited. 
Santa Barbara--Ashley got all bent out ofshape. Kathy begged, pleaded, screamed, asked nicely and implored Greg to take her bowling. Greg refused but promised to take her to the Burger King drive-In If she was a good girl and promised to eat all her green beans. Kevin mur­dered Mary and forgot where he left the body. Tracy got carded. 
The Young and the Restless-­
Kay worried that Phillip didn't really love her and that he was just using her for her body. Phil­lip admitted this readily and Kay said, "Well, okay, as long as you're honest." Shannon won­dered why they call these stupid things soap operas. Krls was visited in his room by the ghost of Marilyn Monroe. She-at­tempted to seduce him and he responded with, "Sorry, I never make love to the most beautiful woman In history on the first date." Diane wondered aloud, "If we're so young and restless, why don't we get a job or someth­Ing?" 
1987, McMurphy Syndicate 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
ALL MY CHILDREN: Matt confessed to Erica that he was a witness to Earl's murder. El­len missed finding Ross In Natalie's bedroom. Ellen 
1 

feared Mark might kill him­
self. Hilary was excited about 
her new job at Tempo. Com­
Ing: Hilary's new assignment 
takes an unexpected twist. 
ANOTHER WORLD: Jamie 
and Michael discovered that 
Reginald owns the hospital 
where Donna had been 
placed. When they went to get 
her, she was gone. Rachael 
mistakenly thought Mac had 
gone to New York with Rose 
and she rushed to Mitch to tell 
him her marriage was over. 
Coming: M.J. feels threatened 
by Chad but makes a danger­
ous decision anyway. 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: 
Emily refused to acknowledge 
that James was the villain 
everyone said he was. Casey 
was upset at the way he per­
ceived Craig was treating Lyla . 
because of Casey's romance 
with her. Bob and Kim worried 
about the questions they 
knew they had to answer once 
Frannie learned more of the 
truth. Coming: James begins 
to suspect he might be In dan­
ger. 
CAPITOL: Angelica 
panicked at the thought of 
Trey learning more about her 
than she wanted him to know. 
Sloane realized she had to 
make a new assessment of 
her life. Coming: Kelly 
decides to face a hidden prob· 
lem. 
DALLAS: Ewing Oll made a 
financial comeback as Bobby 
and J.R. secured Important 
deals. April continued her 
ploy to get back her 5 percent 
of Ewing Oil. Ray and Jenna's 
friendship was put on hold 
when Ray decided to fight 
Donna for custody of their un­
born child. Coming: B.C. Cal­
houn continues to cause 
problems for J.R. 
DAYS OF OUR LIVES: Mike assured Robin he wanted to convert to Judaism In spite of her attempts to dissuade him. Adrienne tried to tell Patch her secret but Kayla interfered before she could do so. Shane talked Kim out of pleading guilty to second degree mur­der. Roman suspected Kim's fingerprints may have been artificially placed in the vial. Coming: Kayla worries about Patch's apparent Interest In Adrienne. 
FALCON CRfST: The kid­nappers demanded that Meridith be handed over to them in exchange for Rich­ard's son. Richard vowed he'd make Angela pay for putting Mer.idith In his household. Emma, who now knew she wasn't having Dwayne's baby, decided to have one with Kar­lottf. Coming: Dan Flxx gets Into a tight spot. 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: Duke and Angus suspected Jonat­han would use polson to kill them. Angus later took the poison to end the long ven­detta. Anna learned Camellia Is Duke's half sister. Jake found Lucy who seduced him by begging for one night of love before going tojail. Com· lng: Sean has a proposition for Alan and Monica. 
GUIDING LIGHT: Josh was not completely sold on Syl­via's story. Roxie and Johnny found some rough spots In their developing relationship. Rusty got some troubling In­formation on Lewis Trucking. Coming: Josh considers an Important move that might In­volve more danger. 
KNOTS LANDING: Abby felt more Isolated than ever as Olivia continued to distance herself from her. Karen felt Isolated as Anne seemed to become more Important both to Mac and to Paige. Coming: Abby decides to take more drastic action. 
LOVING: Tony tl'ied to get Trisha to stop drinking. Steve later told Trisha he never stopped loving her. Trlsha overdosed on drugs and Nick begged Tony who admitted he was a doctor to help her. Gwynne and Clay made love but he was still determined to settle a long time score with her. Coming: Harry learns about Clay. 
ONE LIFE TO LIVE: A body identified as Keith's was dis­covered. Tina weighed Max Holden's Invitation to go with him to his silvermlne In Ar­gentina. At the trial. Maria tes­tified she saw Vickie and Tom kissing and that Vickie said she wanted to start a new life. Judith defended Vickie's right to keep her children even If she had amnesia. Coming: Maria believe she's winning her battle for Clint. 
RYAN'S HOPE: On the wed­ding night. Melinda confessed to Pat that she was Ill and he had a right to annul the mar­riage. Pat Insisted on remain­Ing married and told her he felt sure they'd find a cure. Maggie who decided to divorce Roger, told Jill she was pregnant. While making love to Della, Roger called out Maggie's name. Coming: Slobhan finds upsetting 
evidence that  could  change  
her life.  
SANTA  BARBARA:  Jeffrey  

helped Kelly escape. Cruz joined Eden and Pearl In Swit­zerland to rescue Kelly. Caroline withheld telling Lionel she was Alice's mother. Lionel was shattered when Caroline said she couldn't move In with him yet. 'Coming: In spite of himself, Mason begins to respond to Julia. 
THe YOUNG ~ THE REST· Less: Tract delighted with Tim's assessment of her writing. reassured him Brad would support her return to school. Steven felt he was get­ting closer to the root of Ash­ley's terror. ·VIctor became more concerned about Nikki's health. Coming: Lauren Is shocked at the continuing fall­out resulting from the way she brought Evan into Farei'YMichelle's life. 
1987, McNaught Syndicate 

All My Children--Kyle made a pass at Yvette. She caught It and went six yards for the first down. On the next play Kyle made a handoff to Yvette but she was hit behind the line of scrimmage and coughed up the ball. Sabrina told Kyle that he was going to "have to control the ball." 
Another World--Dirk feared that Jenny was sleeping with George. George feared that Jenny had been sleeping with six people. Patrick figured that pretty well settled the question of whether or not Melissa was a nut case. Richard ran for gover­nor while Tina went shopping for sexy underwear to wear in next week's episodes. 
Falcon Crest--Everybody agreed that Falcon Crest was a stupid name for a TV show. Later Chase tried to make love to Donna but Donna ran over him 
Krls Murphy 
Altered 


Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 8 -9 

' . 
_____________________________________....J 
The Observer Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The SMC varsity track team will have a meeting today a1 4:30 p.m. at the Angela Lounge concerning the spring schedule. For more information contact 284-5548. ­The Observer 
Saint Mary's downed St. Francis by a 65-56 score in basketball action over the weekend. High scorers for the Belles were Julie Radke with 17, Tammy Radke with 11 and Rachel Bir with 10 points. Saint Mary's is now 8-5 on the season. -The Observer 
NVA Cross-Country Moonlighter skiing takes place tomorrow from 7-9 p.m. on Burke Memorial Golf Course. There are rentals available at Rockne Golf Shop and free hot chocolate will be served. Further information may be obtained from the NVA. -The Observer 
The ND Martial Arts Institute is now open for membership in the spring semester. The Institute offers lessons in TaeKwonDo and JiuJitsu. Classes are held on Fridays, 4 to 6 p.m. and Sundays, 6:30 to 8:30p.m. at room 219 Rockne. For more information contact Jim Hoff (2043) or Brian Johns (1838). -The Observer 
A broomball tourney sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 9-15 at Stepan Fields. Sign-ups run through Feb. 4 from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m. at the SAB office. The entry fee is $3 for a team of five persons. For more information contact Mike (1155) or Christian (1300). -The Observer 
A cross-country ski race sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 15 at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Sign-ups run Wednesday through Friday in the SAB office, second floor of LaFortune. Rentals are available. -The Observer 
The Off Campus lacrosse team wants anyone interested in playing to call Dick or Bill at 289-4613. No equipment necessary. -The Observer 
Non-varsity athletics has extended the deadline for the interhall track meet to Wednesday. All entries must be sent to the NVA office for the Feb. 18 meet. -The Observer 
The Off Campus hockey team willplayFlanner tomorrow at 11:30 p.m. at the ACC.-The Observer 
Packers select Braatz for front-office position 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -Tom Braatz, named Saturday as ex­ecutive vice president of foot­ball operations for the Green Bay Packers, says he has no timetable for making the Pack­ers into winners again -but he welcomes the task. 
Braatz, who has been with the Atlanta Falcons organiza­tion since 1965 and was director of college scouting for the Fal­cons last season, said he was lured to the Green Bay job be­cause of what it entails. 
"It's just football. You don't have to fool with tickets and you don't have to fool with public relations," he said. "It's just football and that's what's fun about it. " 
He said his first priority is to get the Packers ready for the National Football League draft in April. 
Green Bay finished 4-12 last year and hasn't had a winning season since going 5-3-1 in the strike-shortened season of 1982. 
Braatz, 54, a Kenosha native, said he should have no trouble working with Packers Coach Forrest Gregg, whose respon­sibilities will be reduced some­what. 
"Forrest and I have had several discussions in In­dianapolis prior to me taking the job," Braatz said, referring to meetings while in In­dianapolis for scouring poten­tial recruits. 
"Everything was ironed out before I said OK," he said. "You can't initiate and you can't consumate trades unless you get with the coach. He knows better than I the needs of the football team." 
Braatz will begin his new po­sition Feb. 20 and will sign a four-year contract later this month, said Packers President Robert Parins. 
Parins said Braatz was selec­ted after an extensive search which included interviews wtih five people and evaluations of 20 other candidates. 
The hiring of Braatz will mark the first time since Vince Lombardi was hired in 1959 that the Packers head coach has not had complete authority over the football operations. 


The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of HaggarCollge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
SUMMER IN EUROPE $279 Lowest Scheduled Fares to all of Europe from Chicago. Call 1 (800) 325-2222. 
We've got the BALLS and the brooms, so sign up today for the WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEY at the SAB offices. 2nd floor LaFortune!!! 
Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 
IRISH GARDENS II ypou are on financial aid! work study and are in the market for making lots of money, come by Irish Gardens and fill out an application for delivery person. Must have own transportation. For appli­cation and more info come to Irish Gar­dens, basement of LaFortune. Applica­tions due Friday at 5:30 
...................................................:............ 
LOST/FOUND I 
Reward!! Help me get my wallet, chain, and ring back! Incredible sentimental value. No questions asked. Please help. Call 1986 or 1987 with info. Reward!! 
LOST--STUDENT BASKETBALL TICKET (Before West Virginia Game) If found Please call Mark, £2151. Thank You. 
LOST ... GOLD BEAD NECKLACE.LOST ON DEC.15TH IN ND LIBRARY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL £3763. 
Lost: Purple key chain with two keys.PLEASE call 3829. 
LOST: men's ring, silver with a red stone(garnet).lf found please return to 1124 grace or call me. Ricky--£3024 
LOST Heart-shaped Opal. It fell out of its setting 1127. PLEASE if you find it, call 277-6033. Sentimental value. REWARD$$$. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be­tween PW & O"Shag 9:00-10:00. Please be kind and contact me If you are the one who found it x-2738 or bring it by 344 PW. Reward is offered. 
FOUND: Gold ring in Howard Saturday night Jan. 24. Call Maraya 2698 to iden­tify. 
REWARD for red Japanese ntbk. You have my name so call 2304 or leave It someplace dry where it'll be found. Going abroad· this is ESSENTIAL 
FOUND: B-Ball Tix after Marquette game -near GrottO'S! Mary's Lake call 2885 to identify and claim 
Lost· Thursday at Scuth Dining Hall. A 
light blue backpack containing a light blue 
binder,management text,and H.P. 11C calc. If found call Bob 233-1292. 
f ~~~~~~ -, 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND FALL SEMESTER 6838889 
CHEAP RENTI!TWO BEDROOM APT­NO AVE.-BEAT ANY PRICE-CALL MATI x3488 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-800-237-2061 
Students needed to help save lives. Watch T.V. and earn extra money . New donors or former donors who haven't donated plasma in the last 30 days will be paid $11.00 following initial or return donation. Bring this ad to: American Plasma, 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. 5 blocks west of Burger King on US 201 Lincolnway West. Phone 234-6010. Open Tues., Wed., Fri., and Sat. 
HIRING PART TIME HELP Pizza Hut wants drivers with own car and in­surance.Call2n-2662 or stop by 138 112 Dixie Way No. in Roseland. 
Campus travel representatives needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Earn money, free travel, and outstanding marketing experience. Call Inter-Campus Programs at 1-800-433-n47 for details and information mailer. 
RIDE NEEDED: MIAMI, OH. FEB. 6-8. CALL ROB -1627. 
FOR SALE 
AIRLINE TIX: OHARE-LAX 13MAR­22MAR MUST SELL-$280 OR BEST OF­FER BY 18FEB. CALL LIZ EHRET 4­5498 ANYTIME 
............................................... 
MAC for Sale !I Great Deal On Complete System Under $1,000 I Call 1310
I __:~:~s__,. 
North Carolina and Duke basketball games. Either student or GA'•· Call Eric at 272-9123. 
NEED TWO TICKETS FOR DUKE GAME CALL DIANE 284 4373 
I need a DUKE student ticket or GA. Call Mary at 2750. 
I have $, but do not have 2 DePaul GAs. Could you help me achieve equi­leeeebrium? Please call Bill x1460. 
NEED 2 DUKE TIXI $$$$$ CLARE x2916 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FEB. 15 DUKE GAME. CALL KATHY 284-5310 
Need 3 Duke tix. call Denise £4684 
I NEED 2 DUKE TIX (EITHER G.A. OR 
STU.) SISTERS ARE COMING OUT FOR THE WEEKEND!! CALL TOM AT X-4605 
WANTED: Duke GA's & STU TIX, ext. 2994 Loretta 
NEED 2 OR 4 DUKE GA'S CALL KEVIN 2165 
PERSONALS 
Part-time mktg. pos. on campus. Poten­tial to make $6tlr. Call Cindy at 1-800­592-2121. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY FAVORS GRANTED! 
EXTRA EXTRA EXTRA EXTRA 
Student Steals Keg Noire Dame,IN. (AP): A student identified only as Anne-Marie X. is suspected of the theft of a keg from Beastie's Brew Emporium Saturday. After devouring half of the keg !at night, the suspect was re­ported engaging in nude "shmaky" games on the quad with numerous male students from a nearby hall. 
Part 1 of 5 
Continued Tuesday 
LOSE WEIGHT FOREVER WITHOUT DIETING WORKSHOP. Beg. Feb 10 5 wks, 7:30-9:00. $45. Auna Preston PhD. 287-3315. 
Summer Service applications deadline is February 2. Students work in social ser­vice for 8 weeks in return for a $1200.00 tuition scholarship. For more information contact the Center for Social Concerns..239-7867. 
If you are on financial aid-work study and are in the market for making lots of money, come by Irish Gardens and fill out an application for delivery person. Must have own transportation. For appli­cation and more info, come to Irish Gar­dens, basement of LaFortune. Applica­tions due Friday at 5:30. 
WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEYIII sign up at SAB offices 2nd floor LaFortune 
AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH • STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME. 
GOING TO BOILERMAKER COUNTRY??? Looking for a ride to Purdue any weekend! Please call Kath­leen at 4036 ... 
BROOMBALLI!I BROOMBALLIII BROOMBALL!!! BROOMBALLIII BROOM BALLI!! 

Desperately need ride to Columbus on Valentine's Day weekend! Call Ros x3352 
""RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO PURDUEtW.LAFAYETIE WKND OF 02-06-08 CALL KIM 284-5535 I'M DESPARATE!II""" 
The guy at the Huddle at 12:30 28 Jan 87 eating ice cream and wearing a v ­neck sweater. The girl in the ND cap would like to talk to you. Call 284 · 4182. 
HEY GUYS: You always complain about the 4 to 1 ratio around here. Too bad for us we wouldn't go out with 3 out of the 
4. SMC EE & DF 
A PRAYER to the Holy Spirit: Holy Spirit, You who made me see everything & showed me the way to reach my ideal, You who gave me the divine gift to forgive & forget the wrong that is done to me & You who are in all instances of my life with me, I in this short dialogue want to thank You for everything & confirm once more that I never want to be separated from You no matter how great the ma­terial desire may be. I want to be with you and my loved ones In Your perpetual glory, Amen. Thank you for Your love toward me and my loved ones. 
THE OFFICIAL FARLEY FUNGI LEAGUE WILL HOLD THE FIRST ICE CREAM SOCIAL IN HONOR OF "WHERE WOULD THIS GOOD EARTH BE WITHOUT THE KEENAN REVUE?" JOIN THE HAPPENIN' FUNGIIII 
Phelps attributed the success of last night's full-court press to a technique he discovered while recruiting in Central New York. While traveling in the area, he said he watched a junior high school basketball game where he saw the press in action. Phelps named it the "Bucky Winters," after the coach he said in­vented it. 
ARE YOU GOING TO KANSAS U. THIS WEEKEND? I NEED A RIDE!!! PLEASE CALL LIZ AT 3496 
LEWIS 4th FLOOR FROSH ARE DORM! 
SOPH. CHICAGO WEEKEND FRI. SAT & SUN. FEB 20·22 $60 includes LODGING (Fri & Sat) and TRANSPORTATION SIGN-UP BY FEB 5 !iOPH CLASS OFFICE 
SOPH CLASS TUBING AT BENDIX WED, FEB 4, BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 8PM. $4 SIGN-UP BY TUES, FEB 3, IN SOPH CLASS OFFICE 
VOl KEENANITES: Gnarly job on Revue! The STANFORD STUDS 
PATIIII HAVE A FANTASTIC GROUND HOGS DAY!! Tommy P.S.--Happy Birthday! 
Last Chance For Spring Break "87! South Padre Island, Daytona Beach, Steamboat Springs, Miami Beach' Fort Lauderdale, Mustang Island! Port Aransas, Galveston Island and Fort Wal­ton Beach. Call Sunchase Tours Central Spring Break Toll Free Hot Line Today for last minute information and reserva­tions 1-800-321-59111 
TS "Soldier boy Oh my little soldier boy Be my little soldier boy I'll be true to you In this cold world You get only one girl Let me be that one girl I'll be true to you." LD 
Need 3 Duke tix. call Denise £4684 
WANTED: Duke GA"s & STU TIX, ext. 2994 Loretta 
Last Chance For Spring Break '871 South Padre Island, Daytona Beach, Steamboat Springs, Miami Beach' Fort Lauderdale, Mustang Island! Port Aransas, Galveston Island and Fort Wal­ton Beach. Call Sunchase Tours Central Spring Break Toll Free Hot Line Today for last minute information and reserva­tions 1-800-321-59111 


The Observer Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 11 
range, the Tar Heels took con­As for Phelps, he didn't care
Upset 
trol for much of the opening that Smith wasn't in the back­
half. 
court for Carolina today. 
continuedfrom page 1 
The Irish stayed with the "One thing we didn't do in 
Rivers, who was scoreless in deliberate tempo to slow down practice yesterday was worry the opening half but finished the potent Tar Heels, who en­about Kenny Smith not with 14 points, penetrated to hit tered the game averaging 94.7 playing," said Phelps. "I told three jumpers down the stretch points per contest. The Irish the team that when you lose a with Carolina's Ranzino Smith chipped away and went on a key player it helps you. It in his face, and Voce hit four seven-point spurt at the end of works against the team you're 
from the line and grabbed a key the half to cut a 16-point lead playing because your kids do rebound at the end to seal Notre to nine at the half. things better. My kids wouldn't Dame's upset. let me read the papers this 
"I got into a rhythm," said "I said at halftime that that morning because they didn't Rivers, whose father travelled we've got to start going to hole, want me to think about Smith from New Jersey to see his son penetrate, draw the fouls or not being in the line up." play at Notre Dame for the first look to pass. We only had one While Phelps and Rivers both time. "When I get into a foul shot in the first half, and said that they'd celebrate the rhythm -where I'm controlling that told me we had to go in-win and get on with the season, the tempo -whether I have a hand in my face or not I tend 
J 

to shoot well. I just got into a 
•
i-" 

good grove. 
Practice, practice
"There wasn't a particular moment when I felt I could 
By MARTY BURNS team were going to do one score. It was just the offense hoop, while the Blue team
Assistant Sports Editor 
we were in. I have the option took the other one. We feltto go one-on-one. When I felt Did anybody really they were ripe for us to takeRanzino was giving me enough shots and some fine free-throw believe it could happen? them, and that our gameroom, I took the shot." 
shooting by Voce and forwardYes. plan was perfect." 

Comeback
Even at the end, it looked as Donald Royal, came throughIrish head coach Digger This, of course, is not theif Notre Dame's own fans when it was necessary.
Phelps not only believed his first recorded incident of 
continuedfrom page 16 
would take the game away "Notre Dame certainly hadsquad could upset No. 1 Phelps' coaching the post­from the Irish. Cardboard ner in which they roared back .a very fine second-half perfor­North Carolina, he went so game ritual. It became well­signs were thrown to the floor over the final few minutes to mance," stated Tar Heel headfar as to have his team prac­publicized after Notreafter Voce grabbed a rebound steal the game from the Tar coach Dean Smith. "I felt thattice cutting down the nets Dame's 71-70 upset of UCLAand was fouled after a forced Heels. Their defense kept we dominated in the first half,after Saturday afternoon's in 1974 that Phelps had made shot by the Tar Heel's J.R. 
Carolina off-balance, giving up but they played very well at the practice. his team practice cutting the Reid. The crowd went wild, and only four points over the final end. I congratulate NotrePractice shearing the nets before the game. 
referee Gerry Donaghy six minutes, while the offense, Dame for its victory. It has totwine? It might seem some­"We've never practicedwhistled Notre Dame for a behind David Rivers' clutch be exciting for them."
what cocky, but then again cutting the nets before,"technical foul. Voce, who hit on Smith didn't have to look intoit worked. said a jubilant Royal, stillfive-of-six free throws and the Irish locker room to make"We knew we could win wearing the shredded twine scored a game-high 15 points, that last prediction. But if he
Students
this game," said forward around his neck. "But Coach calmly stuck both ends of the had he would have seen a teamMark Stevenson. "We did a just had us do it yesterday. 
continuedfrom page 16 
one-and-one for the win. 
celebrating ·like it truly appre­trial run after practice at I'm glad I got a piece of that"I missed converting on a helped key. It was a party that ciated its moment in thecutting down the nets. net because this is by far the three-point play before, and evoked memories of other, limelight. ­Donald (Royal) and the Gold biggest win of my career."

Coach Phelps sat me down and 
similar victories over top-rated And while the remainder of told me what I was doing 
teams. the season may bring its share wrong," said Voce. "So I felt side. We felt at halftime that this is one win they won't forget Mterward, Dean Smith ac­of disappointments, this Notre pretty good when I went up Rivers could go for more one­for quite some time. knowledged the crowd but had Dame team has carved its there at the end. I just thought on-one, and we let him do that." a question for the officials. place in history.
Sunday's Reaultsto myself, 'I'm going to hit this Went. the Irish went inside, Notre Dame 60, North Carolina 58 "I'm sure Digger will talk to "It's just something we're North Carolina (58)
one."' they looked to Voce, who has them," said Smith of the tech­very good at here at Notre 
M FG-A FT-A R F P
Jeff Lebo hit the technical found a baseline jumper to nical foul call. "I thought that Dame-knocking off top-ranked 
Reid 37 5-13 2-4 4 4 12shot and a jumper at the buzzer make him a scoring threat Popson 19 2-4 0-0 6 2 4 when a technical is called be­teams," smiled Phelps. 
for the final score. along with Donald Royal in­Wolf 36 7-15 0-0 1 2 14 cause of the crowd, it's on the 
Lebo 40 4-11 1-1 3 1 11
Joe Wolf scored 14 to lead the side. coach, so it would be two shots.
Smith 32 2-4 2-2 2 0 8
Tar Heels, who lost their their "I didn't think (Voce) would Bucknell 12 0-1 0-0 1 3 0 But that wouldn't be a nice way 
Voce 

second game against 18 wins. be that good a shooter," said Williams 11 3-4 1-2 2 1 1 to win a game. Until they don't 
Hunter 13 1-2 0-0 3 1 2 continuedjrompage 16
But in the first half, the game Coach Smith. "He didn't play throw things again, that's the
200 24-54 6-9 28 14 54
looked as if it would be all quite that well, at least as an way you stop it. I did hate to me in mind. That will help the 
North Carolina, which played offensive threat, on the tapes I FG Pet. -.444. FT Pet. -.667. Team see them take away what I whole team." rebounds -1. Turnovers -14. Assists -14
solidly without injured point watched. thought would be a layup at the Not paying attention to Voce
(Reid 4). 3-point goals -Lebo 2, Smith 2.
guard Kenny Smith. Smith un­"This was a learning experi­beginning of the game. is a mistake that North
Technlcals -none. derwent arthroscopic surgery ence for us. I thought we Notre Dame (60) "There's a lot of enthusiasm Carolina head coach Dean M FG-A FT-A R F P
Saturday morning to remove responded well, particularly in here, but I don't think the Smith realized too late. 
Royal 39 3-5 2-2 5 3 8
loose cartilage from his left light of Kenny not being here. crowd got to us at all until the "Voce is a big improvement 
Stevenson 39 5-10 0-0 1 1 10 knee. We played with poise, but we Voce 37 5-7 5-6 10 4 15 end. Our kids have been to from the tapes I saw," said 
Yet with Wolf hitting short didn't play the last minute the Rivers 40 6-12 2-2 5 4 14 Duke, Clemson and other Smith. "He didn't even look to .... 
Hicks 18 0-4 0-0 3 0 0
jumpers and Lebo and Smith way I'd like to have seen them places, and while they're very shoot most of the time. Now
Connor 24 5-9 0-0 0 1 13gunning from three-point play. We can learn from that." Paddock 3 0-0 0-0000 vocal here, they are in those he's more offensive minded. I 

200 24-47 9-10 24 13 57 
places as well." didn't think he'd be that good But until this season, those a shooter."
FG Pet. -.511. FT Pet. -.900. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -11. Assists -12 schools hadn't beaten North It wasn't always that way for (Rivers, Stevenson 4). 3-point goals-Connor 
Carolina. Students elsewhere Voce. Much has been made of 
3. Technicals -Fans. 
didn't have the celebration the fact that he didn't play bas­
Halftime -North Carolina 32, Notre Dame 
23. Officials -Joe Forte, Gerald Donaghy, Notre Dame students got to ketball until he was 13. Yet 
Dave Popson grimaces after suffering a bruised calf. 
James Rife (all ACC). A-11,418 (c). have. 
.._ .. M ____ 

Sisters Office Services ·' (j~~ TYPING
« 20% Discount 
Term Papers
sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C. ReportsStudents 
Resume Preparation Grammar and Spelling Corrected 
425 N. Michigan 283-8593
niversity Park Mall and 
Suite 202

Concord & Pierre Moran 
South Bend, IN 46601
Malls -Elkhart 
Special Rates for Students 
Voce had the potential, and Shumate, a premier center in his playing days, brought it out. 
"Shumate didn't think I was working hard enough or possesed the desire," said Voce. "He spoke to me about it, and it hurt. But then I started to work harder. He's really worked on my aggressiveness .. and consistency." 
Voce couldn't have picked a better time for his arrival on the court. 
"It meant a great lot to me," Voce said of Sunday's win. "My mom and friends (in Queens, N.Y.) saw it. They had to be saying, 'What's Voce doing in South Bend?' Now they know Notre Dame is good club. 
"We believe in ourselves, and this was definitely a confi­dence builder. We've been searching for our identity. We knew we could play. I'm not sure anybody else did." 
As for Shumate, it looks as if his search for a center is over. 

The Observer Monday, February 2, 1987-page 12 
Irish take second in Invitational as John Carroll's depth too much 
By STEVE MEGARGEEE 
Sports Writer 
To the casual fan, Notre Dame may have looked much better than John Carroll in yes­terday's National Catholic Wrestling Invitational at the ACC. Looks aren't everything. 
While the Irish turned in several outstanding individual performances en route to win­ning four individual champion­ships, John Carroll's balance and experience helped it even­tually capture the tournament title. Notre Dame finished in second place. 
"We have better people, but we just don't have enough of them. We don't have the bal­ance they have, so we needed to win the close matches," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "Their balance was a factor, but we still had the people to win it. We just didn't do it." 
Freshman 118-pound Andy Radenbaugh, ·and sophomores 126-pound Dave Carlin, 134­pound Jerry Durso, and 142­pound Pat Boyd won individual titles for Notre Dame. Raden­baugh, Carlin, and Durso won their final-round matches on major decisions, while Boyd took his on a pin. 
John Carroll's victories were a bit on the closer side, but the team still managed to take five individual championships to 
-
emerge victorious in what was essentially a two-team race be­tween John Carroll and Notre Dame. 
"They've got four or five seniors in their lineup. I knew they'd be tough," said McCann. "They dominated this tourna­ment for years." 
It was John Carroll's ninth 
Rebels win over Auburn 
Associated Press 
AUBURN, Ala. -Guard Freddie Banks scored 36 points -including 27 on 3-point field goals -and forward Armon Gil­liam added 31 as third-ranked Nevada-Las Vegas defeated No. 19 Auburn 104-85 in an in­tersectional college basketball game yesterday: 
Banks hit nine of 13 3-point attempts and 13 of 21 overall from the field as the Runnin' Rebels improved their record to 21-1. 
For the game, UNLV, a Pacific Coast Athletic Confer­ence team that was ranked No. 1 for eight weeks this season, hit 14 of 28 3-point shots. 
Chris Morris and Jeff Moore led Auburn, 12-6, with 17 points apiece and Mike Jones added 16 before 12,584 fans, the second-largest basketball crowd in the Tigers history. 
UNLV led 60-49 at halftime and Auburn's Frank Ford hit the first field goal of the second half with 19:04 left to cut the margin to nine. 
But the Rebels outscored the Tigers of the Southeastern Con­ference 29-10 over the next 12 minutes to build an 89-61 lead with 9: 13 remaining. During that stretch, Gilliam had nine points and Banks six. 
UNLV was able to stifle the Tigers' inside game in the second half with a tight 2-3 zone defense. 
championship in the last ten years. Notre Dame won the title last year to break John Carroll's string of eight con­secutive championships. 
Other wrestlers placing for the Irish included 150-pound junior Ron Wisniewski (third), 167-pound sophomore Chris Genes_er (second), 190-pound senior Dave Helmer (tnird), and heavyweight freshman Mike Crounse (third). 
Geneser's loss in the finals was only his third of the season, as he currently holds a record of 23-3. 
"We lost a couple of tough matches. Helmer lost a close one in the semi-finals, and that hurt us," said McCann. " "Chris still isn't looking really good since coming back from his injury. This could be a blessing in disguise for him. He's got to start working on some things, and he realizes it. He'll work through it. He's ded­icated." 
Despite having to settle for second place in the tourna­ment, McCann was pleased with the winning individuals, particularly Durso. Durso, re­turning after a two-week layoff because of a shoulder injury, was named the outstanding wrestler of the tournament. 
"Jerry hadn't wrestled in two weeks, and he looked like dynamite. Boyd didn't have a close match in the tournament, and I wouldn't quarrel with him being named outstanding wrestler either," said McCann. "Our first four guys <Radenbaugh, Carlin, Durso, and Boyd) are tough. I think they and Geneser can qualify for nationals. They just have to believe they can." 
McCann was also pleased with the way the tournament was run as a whole. 
"I'm pleased because I want to host some tournaments here in the future, and this tourna­ment was sort of a training ground for us," said McCann. "We want to host a regional next year. I think we'll put in for it, and I'm confident we'll get it." 
Notre Dame's next dual meet will be at home against Mic­higan State on Thursday. 
It's happened before 
Notre Dame 71, UCLA 70 January 19, 1974 
UCLA came in 13-0 and ranked No. 1 by both AP and UPI, with an overall 88-game winning streak that still ranks as the longest in college basketball history. Notre Dame came in 9-0 and ranked No. 2 by both AP and UPI. UCLA went on to finish 26-4 and lose to eventual NCAA champion North Carolina State in the final four semifinals. 
Notre Dame 93, San Francisco 82 March 5, 1977 
San Francisco came in 29-0 and ranked No. 1 by both AP and UPI. Notre Dame came in 19-6 and unranked. 
Notre Dame 65, Marquette 59 February 26, 1978 Marquette came in 22-2 and ranked No. 1 by both AP and UPI. Notre Dame came in ranked No. 9 by AP and No. 12 by UPI. Marquette ranked as the defending national cham­pion following its 25-7 record and NCAA title in 1977. 
Notre Dame 76, DePaul 74 (20T) February 27, 1980 DePaul came in 25-0 and ranked No. 1 by both AP and UPI. Notre Dame came in 20-5 and ranked No. 14 by AP and No. 15 by UPI. 
""' Notre Dame 60, North Carolina 58 ... February 1, 1987 North Carolina came in 18-1 and ranked No.1 by both AP and UPI. Notre Dame came in 11-5 and unranked. 
Final minutes 
as taken from the official play-by-play sheets from the game: Time ND NC Play 
4:12  46  Rivers swishes from foul line  
3:47  COMMON FOUL: Hunter (pl t5)  
SUB: Bucknall for Hunter  
3:30  48  Rivers swishes again from 15  
2:49  PERSONAL FOUL: Reid (p3 t6) SUB:Hunter for Smith  
49-50  Voce at line, shooting two, hits first, hits second  
2:19  PERSONAL FOUL: Bucknall (p3 t7) SUB: Smith for Hunter  
51-52  Royal at line, shooting onoone, hits first, hits second  
1:54  55  Wolf high arcing jumper from the paint  
1:36  54  Voce scores right baseline and is FOULED by Wolf (p2)  
X  TIMEOUT: North Carolina (1) Voce fails to convert  
1:06 0:39  56  Rivers nails jumper from foul line TIMEOUT: North Carolina (2)  
SUB: Williams for Bucknall  
TIMEOUT: North Carolina (3)  
0:16  INTENTIONAL FOUL: Williams (pl) SUB: Hunter for Williams  
57-58  Rivers at the line shooting two, hits first, hits second  
0:05  59-60  Voce shooting one/one, hits first, hits second  
PERSONAL FOUL: On Reid (p4)  
TECHNICAL FOUL: Lebo shooting one, hits  
0:00  Lebo hits last second basket  

Stars & Stripes sails ahead to 2-0 Cup lead 
Associated Press 
FREMANTLE, Aus. -Stars &Stripes, proving it can win in all winds, blew away Kookaburra III in stiff breezes yesterday for a one-minute, 10­second victory that brought the America's Cup halfway back to its home of 132 years. 
The U.S. yacht took a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven finals and carried skipper Dennis Conner to within two victories of redemption for his 1983 loss of the prize. 
Much calmer conditions were forecast for today's third race. Kookaburra III skipper lain Murray, feeling his boat is better suited to light, shifty winds, decided not to call an off day. 

VOCATION RETREAT 
[p)(L)J[gi[p)(Q)~~ to help you consider the brotherhood 
and priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
[Q)~[f~~ Friday, February 13 to 
7:00 p.m. 
[p)[L~~~Moreau Seminary 
Saturday, February 14 
12:00 noon 

[Ri~@~~tr~~lf~(Q)[M by calling the Vocation Office-no cost 239-6385 
The Observer Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 13 

The Observer/Robert Jones Jeff Van Wie finished second in the 1000-yard run when Mic­higan's Rollie Hudson (partially hidden) caught him at the finish. Pete Gegen details Notre Dame's close loss to the Wolverines at right. 
SAB presents 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Saturday afternoon Rick Muench was having one of those days where everything he did was going right. He had taken second in the high jump with a personal best of six feet, twoinchesandinthelongjump with a leap of 23 feet, 2 314 inches. 
But in the triple jump, the last event to finish the meet, Muench was unknowingly jumping for an Irish team vic­tory. Muench had finished his jumps before the results of the second-to-last event, the mile relay, were announced, which had left the Irish down by only two points. A first place in the triple jump would mean a team victory for Notre Dame. 
But it was not to be. After jumping 47 feet, seven inches in the preliminary jumps, he had scratched in the finals and the Wolverines' Butch Star­nack jumped 47 feet, nine inches to take the event and the meet from the Irish. 
"I scratched on my last three jumps," said Muench. "I broke down in the middle of my runs. It was just one of those things." 
But in the eyes of Head Coach Joe Piane, the scratches were insignificant compared to the day Meunch had. 
"He just had a terrific day," said Piane. "He's not world­class, but he competes every time he's out there." 
In fact, Piane had very few things to gripe about after losing to Michigan by the score of 67-64. 
"I'm not going to complain," he said. "This is one of the bet­ter teams in the Big Ten, and the difference was only two inches. You know, I bet if we ran this meet again, we would win it." 
The Irish jumped to a 10­point as they took each of the first four events. Shot putter Tom Kraus did not have one of 
Track team beaten by Wolverines despite banner outing for Muench 
his best meets but still 
managed to win the shot put 
with a toss of 51 feet, 11 3-8 
inches. 

Hurdler Glenn Watson then 
set a meet record and qualified 
for the IC4A's by taking the 60­
yard high hurdles. His time of 
7:35 also was just nine-one hundreths of a second shy of the NCAA championship qual­ifying standard. 
"I got off to a better start," said Watson, who had been slow out of the blocks in his two previous races. "I knew (Michigan's Phil Webb) was close. I just wanted to get away from him." 
Sprinter Tim Brown has also been working on his starts, and it paid off as he won the 60-yard dash in a hand-held time of 6.2 seconds. 
Dan Garrett made it four in 
a row for Notre Dame by win­
ning the mile run. He held off 
a charge by Michigan's Chris 
Brewster with 300 yards to go 
to win the race. 
The Wolverines then took a large bite out of the Irish lead when they swept the 800-yard run. Notre Dame's David Warth hit the wall after leading early, and Michigan's Matt Butler, Earl Parrish, and Rob Rinck passed him to finish one­two-three. The nine-point sweep gave the Wolverines a 32-31lead. 
Omar Davidson increased Michigan's lead to two when he out-ran Notre Dame's Robert Nobles in the 600-yard dash. But Brown and Tony Ragunas got the lead back for the Irish when they finished first and third respectively in the 300­yard dash. 
Michigan took the lead for good when Scott Crawford set a new meet record in the high jump with a leap of six feet, eight inches, and Rollie Hudson barely edged Notre Dame's Jeff Van Wie for an exciting conclusion to the 1000-yard run. 
Irish distance runner Mike 
NAZZ 
COMPETITION 
All those musically inclined (or not?) pick up applications in the SAB Office (2nd floor LaFortune) starting Tues., Feb. 3 
They're due Feb. 13. 
CASH PRIZES! 
More info available with application..• 
O'Conner qualified for the IC4A's in the two mile with a time of 8:58.35, but he finished second to the Wolverine's Chris Brewster, who set a meet record with a time of 8:53.88 
Notre Dame almost picked up ground in the pole vault when it appeared Michigan's Dave Irvine would not clear 14 feet, six inches. But on his third attempt Irvine cleared the bar and went on to clear 15 feet to take the event. Chris Matteo and Chris Componovo finish second and third respectively for the Irish. 
It appeared Michigan had wrapped up the meet when its mile relay team beat Notre Dame's. But Michigan's team was disqualified when its first two runners ran inside the in­side lane. As a result, Notre Dame found itself down by only two with the triple jump results yet to come. 
AFC takes defensive Pro Bowl 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU -John Elway threw for the game's only touchdown, and Denver 
-
Broncos teammate Karl Meck­lenburg spearheaded a smot­hering defense to lead the AFC to a 10-6 victory over the NFC in yesterday's Pro Bowl foot­ball game. 
Elway, who threw for 304 yards in the Broncos' 39-20 Super Bowl loss to the New York Giants the previous Sun­day, put the AFC ahead to stay with a 10-yard touchdown pass to Todd Christensen of the Los Angeles Raiders on the final play of the first quarter. 
That touchdown -and a 26­yard field goal by New En­gland's Tony Franklin just before halftime -were set up when the NFC's return special­ist, rookie Vai Sikahema of St. Louis, fumbled the ball away on punt returns. 
-
The victory halted, at least temporarily, the NFC's domination of the AFC in recent postseason play. The National Conference had won five of the last seven NFL all­star games and five of the last six Super Bowls, the last three by wide wargins. 
The AFC reduced the NFC's lead in the Pro Bowl series to 10-7. 
Seattle's Fredd Young recovered the first fumble by Sikahema, who had turned the ball over just twice during the regular season, at the NFC 17 to set up the touchdown. 
Miami rookie linebacker John Offerdahl fell on the second Sikahema fumble at the AFC 44, setting up Franklin's field goal and a 10-0 lead. 
The NFC was limited to a field goal of 38 yards by Morten Andersen in the third quarter and a 19-yarder by the New Or­leans kicker in the opening seconds of the final period. 
Defensive end Reggie White of Philadelphia was a standout for the NFC, logging a Pro Bowl record-tying four sacks. Although on the losing team, he was voted the game's most valuable player. 

The Observer Monday, February 2, 1987-page 14 
Saturday night letdown costs Irish as hockey team splits weekend set 
By PETE SKIKO kid who's battled naggmg m­Jonn Welsch, who hustled and Sports Writer juries and pneumonia all year played with good intensity. At and who came on Friday night times, we passed well and hit The Notre Dame hockey to play a great game for us." the open man, but again there team earned a split of its two­Sophomore Matt Hanzel seem to be too many key times game series with Wisconsin­opened the scoring for the Irish when we put the puck on the Stevens Point this weekend in and, later, with the score tied wrong stick when we break the team's final home series of at 1-1, Mooney pumped in the down the ice. Inexperience due the season. dramatic game-winner. to the youth of our squad prob­
The Irish won the hard­Unfortunately, as well as the ably explains a lot of that, but fought opener 2-1 Friday night Irish played as a team on at times it can be frustrating." behind junior Tom Mooney's Friday, their effort was not One thing that certainly did third-period goal and the tena­duplicated in the fatal first per­not frustrate Smith was the cious goaltending of junior Jeff iod of Saturday night's game, support his team received on Henderson. Head Coach Lefty which saw Stevens Point roar both nights from the student Smith felt that Friday night's to a 5-0 lead. body. contest was indicative of how ''The first period on Saturday "I cannot express how much well his team can play on a night was just a disaster," said (the crowd's enthusiasm) given night. Smith. "It wasn't just a let­meant to us," said Smith. "The 
"Friday night's result came down by one or two people, it coaching staff, the players and about because the whole team was pretty much everybody. I want to thank everyone who hustled and played well to­We looked flat and our passing came to the games for their gether," said Smith, in his 19th was not crisp at all. Once we support. It can really pick a year as head coach of the Irish. got into the second and third team up and give it the edge in "We were finishing off our periods, our collective game a close game." checks, and playing solid de­improved, but we had just dug fensive hockey. Pat Foley had ourselves too deep a hole in that Pat' Foley, Roy Bemiss, and his usual quietly super game first period. Tom Mooney did the scoring for and I was extremely pleased "We changed goalies in the the Irish on Saturday night. with the play of Bruce Haikola second period and our second The Irish, now 8-12, travel to who played for Lance Patten goalie, Lance Madson, played Colorado Springs next weekend (out with an injury). Here's a extremely well, as did (junior) for a series with the Air Force. 
Women's basketball team takes out frustrations on MU 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer To most Irish basketball  ACC crowd and a nationally televised audience. To head coach Mary DiStanislao and the Notre Dame women's bas­ hours earlier. Saturday, the Irish ended a two-game losing streak and put together one of their finest per­ Against Marquette, the Irish had a .600 team shooting percentage, and found a red­hot shooter in freshman Annie  defense, led by Heidi Bunek's four blocked shots and 11 de­fensive rebounds. The War­riors shot only .377 from the  
- fans, the big game of the ketball team, there was an­weekend was played yesterday other pretty important game afternoon in front of a capacity played on the same court 24 Belles improve to 5-2 with first home win  formances of the season in a 95-60 rout of Marquette. Notre Dame was in complete control of this one from the opening tipoff as several school and per­sonal bests were recorded. "I think I'm going to savor this one," said DiStanislao. "Everyone came out with in­ Schwartz. Averaging five points a game, Schwartz hit nine of ten shots to lead Notre Dame with 18 points. Sopho­more Diondra Toney also found her range, hitting several out­side shots and finishing with 16 points. The Irish also have struggled  floor. Only four teams have shot better than .500 against the Irish all season. With solid outside shooting, a harassing defense and a full­steam fast break, the Irish were unstoppable. All the pieces of the puzzle were firmly in place. Their 56 first-half  
By JANE SHEA Sports Writer  "Peggy Halloran was out­standing in both the events she  tensity. Everyone came out ready to play. Heidi (Bunek) played real well. Mary (Gavin)  to control the tempo of their games. But on Saturday, junior point guard Mary Gavin had  points, many of them coming off the fast break, were one short of the school record for  
swam in," said Kuzmitz.  played  real  well.  Everyone  the game in her hands as she  most points in a half, set in 1985  
The Saint Mary's swimming  Halloran had first in the 1000­ played well."  registered  a  version  of  the  against Loyola.  
team won its first dual meet at  yard freestyle and the 500-yard  It is no secret that the Irish  "triple-double" with 11 points,  
home  Saturday  when  it  free.  have  been  struggling  this  10 steals and 14 assists. Gavin,  "When we got the ball we just  
defeated both the University of  Saint Mary's took first and  season. If the game of basket­ already Notre Dame's all-time  went with it," said DiStanislao.  
Chicago and Olivet College by  second in the 400-yard freestyle  ball could be compared to a jig­ leader in assists with 439, ran  "It's funny -our team numbers  
scores of 80 to 48 and 104 to 8  relay with times of 4:07.13 and  saw puzzle, it would be appro­ the Irish fast break expertly,  go down and we decide to pick  
to raise its record to 5-2.  4:26.54. The first place team in­ priate to say that the team has  forcing  Marquette  turnovers  up the tempo a little bit. If you  
"I was very excited about the  cluded  Rafferty,  Juckniess,  been unable  to  put all their  and making several dazzling  want them to  play  more  ag­ 
win," said Head Coach Nancy  Tierney,  and  Halloran.  Both  pieces together  at  the  same  passes.  Her  10  steals in  the  gressively you have to reward  
Jo Kuzmitz after the meet.  teams qualified for the nation­ time this season. Until Satur­ game is  a  new  Notre Dame  them and let them go."  
Sophomores Peggy Halloran  als.  day.  record.  The Irish now sport a 5-12  
and Kiernan Walter  came  in  The Belles next meet is Tues­ Outside shooting has been a  With Gavin forcing turnovers  record as they head into Tues­ 
first and second place in the  day  when  they  take  on  major concern for DiStanislao  from the backcourt, the Irish  day's 7:30 p.m.  contest with  
1000-yard freestyle with times  Kalamazoo at home.  since the season's beginning.  also  played  tenacious  inside  Western Michigan.  


of 12:01.31 and 15:07.88. 
In the 200-yard freestyle, Julie Cournutey, a freshman, was first with a time of 2: 16.31 while Sara Maurer, a sopho­more, came in second. 
The 100-yard backstroke was won by senior captain Patty Juckniess with a time of 1:11.36 and second place was captured by junior Julie Veselik. Junior Magan Rafferty won the 200­yard backstroke. 
Margaret Meanion, a senior, won the 100-yard breast stroke and was second in the 200-yard breast stroke with times of 
1:18.76 and 2:53.48 respective­ly. 
The Belles came in first and third in the 50-yard freestyle with the help of freshman Erin Tierney, who had a time of :26.82, and junior Mary Beth Hogan, who had a time of :30.70. 
Tierney and Cournutey also took first and third in the 100­yard freestyle with times of 
Career Day in INDY 
Tues., Mar. 3 in Indianapolis 
WHO: Anyone interested in 
-Accounting  -Journalism  
-Finance  -Law  
-Health Care  -Many others  

WHAT: Spend a day with an Alum in the REAL WORLD! 
COST: $12 (Includes transpo. & meals) 
sponsored by the Alumni Association 
Returns WHEN: Bus leaves Tues. Sam 10pm 
APPLICATIONS: Only 30 Openings! 
1:01.20 and 1:03.61. I DUE: Fri., Feb. 6 Tanya Reeves, a sophomore, II 
AVAILABLE IN: Alumni Office 
won both the 100 and the 200­yard fly with times of 1: 10.25 
2nd fl. Admin. Bldg. 239-6000 
and 2:37.17. 
Career Day in DETROIT  . . .I·..  
Fri., Feb. 27  
WHO: Anyone interested in  
-Accounting  -Law  
-Advertising  -Public Relations  
-Finance  
WHAT: Spend a day with  
an Alum in the REAL WORLD!  

COST:$20 (includes transpo., hotel & dinner) 
sponsored by the Alumni Association 
WHEN: Bus leaves Thurs. 7pm 
Returns Fri. 1Opm APPLICATIONS: Only 30 Openings! DUE: Fri., Feb. 6 AVAILABLE IN: Alumni Office 2nd fl. Admin. Bldg. 239-6000 
i~HIII!Miiliii!-BS 11-i-~-·. 




Wish her a happy one Donna kicking back with a cold 
brew and one of her 14 guys. 

B presents: 
-Sign-ups all week for: 
Second City Touring 
Company 
Bendix Woods on Feb. 12, $5 ~ Broomball Tourney, $3 a team -Applications for: SAB positionsThursday, Feb. 5th Nazz Competition 
(sign-ups and applications available on 2nd fl. LaFortune, SAB Office)
7, 9:30pm Tix $4 
-Movies: Wed, Thurs; One Flew Over The Cukoo's Sold at Washington Hall Nest 
Fri, Sat; Prizzi's Honor 
Both movies $1.50. 
Feb. 3, 4 from 7-9 m 
9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "The Front," 1976, color, 94 minutes, Mar­tin Ritts, Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Apple-stuffed pork loin Beef stew over biscuit Baked lemon & herb cod Kielbasa sandwich on a hoagie roll 
Saint Mary's 

Roast Beef Cantonese Pineapple Turkey Spaghetti with meat sauce or marinara sauce Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Fedora and cloche Sit's a long story 

9 One-liners 13 Marble 15 Broadcasts 16 N.L.'s Felipe 17 Lazar 18 Lyric poems 19 Grassy land 20 One asset at 
the beach 22 Thievery 24 Repast 26 Woody's son 27 Goad 30 Jolt 32 Honcho 36 Young salmon 37 Melodic 39 Ocean: abbr. 40 Hide away 42 Tool for 
holding a gem 43 Conductor 
Georg 45 Curve 46 Spring holiday 49 Left hurriedly 50 It goes with 
tails 52 Hit sign 53 "Jane-" 54 Commedia 

dell'­56 Winged 58 Covers thickly 62 Matriculate 66 Spoils 67 Alphabet 
sequence 69 Andrea­70 Organic 

compound 71-colada 72 Abadan native 73 Puppy sound 7 4 Be prolific 75 Coaster 
DOWN 1 Painter Frans 2 US author 
James 3 Mulberry bark 
What's happening this week? 
All Rights Reserved 
4 Trunks or 
clams 5-Paulo 6 Gives succor 7 Garbo 8 Avows 9 Fast pace 
10 Jai­11 Fancy dress 12 Caroled 14 Pa. port 21 Rani's spouse 23 Bitter drug 25 Applies grease 27 Out of sorts 28 Hoffman in 
"Midnight 
Cowboy" 29 Take hold 31 Mob scenes 33 Hang around 34 Playful sea 
mammal 35 Use thermal 
currents 38 "Aida" e.g. 41 Core 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
lIKE DIA VAS TIIJiJJ,:
A NIE L IE R A T E R I]:rftJ.
llit 

N I C TJt~lJ! ~ ,!!,!!
P I N E • I N M A Ttl IS E E DIS.E M M A PAC E RIS. E N D E A RIS 
AMO ISANE.L IF 

ER 
N I 
N E E S 
G I 
S S E 

T A R T. S T I L E. 
IJ-!.E.~JJ•IDEATE ~..!L!-F I D D LIR F liS H 
Tl~ ERIGOT TANTE ~:t11 D E E M S S N E E R 
2/2/87 
44 "A Comedy -" 59 Ms Anderson 47 Stab 60 Above 48 Part 61 Unit of sound 51 Squabble 63 Nuncupative 55 Tennessee -64 Queue 
Ford 65 "The belt ­57 "The King -" schemes ... " 58 Victim 68 Jack of clubs 
• 
.... 
Monday, February 2, 1987 -page 16

S~orts 
Notre Dame knocks off North Carolina, 60-58 
Voce's emerging offense keys Irish inside production 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Mter Sunday's win was safely in the record books, Irish head coach Digger Phelps said that Assistant Coach John Shumate had found a copy of the Doobie Brothers' "Long Train Running," a song Shumate and his teammates had used to psyche themselves up to play UCLA. The Irish used that song to get them­selves pumped up to upset North Carolina. 
For Shumate, it was another find that really keyed the Irish win -Gary Voce. In the past eight days, Voce's play has been nothing short of amazing. 
Last Saturday, Voce scored six points and grabbed 13 rebounds against UCLA. He followed that performance with 14 points and 12 rebounds against Dayton last Tuesday. Just two days later, he had six and eight. Sunday, he had the game of his career for the third time in a week by scoring 15 points, including the game­sealing free throws, and hauling down 10 boards, includ­ing the one which sent him to the line for the final shots. NBC named him the game's MVP. 
Now Voce has become a threat inside which opens up a new look in the Irish offensive scheme. 
"I told Gary two weeks ago after the loss to West Virginia that he was going to have to step out and shoot from the baseline," said Phelps. "We did that against UCLA, we did that this week and we did it today. He can stick that shot. That's a new dimension in our offense." 
With the coaches showing confidence in him, Voce has shown confidence in himself. 
"I felt I could score if I wanted," he said. "Lately, Coach has told me it was OK to take the outside shot more because teams were not playing me as an outside player. That was putting more pressure on the guards. I've al­ways felt I could play the post. 
"I think maybe other teams will see this and say Voce is a threat now. Whether I get the ball in the post a lot or not, the other teams will have to keep Burns have complete coverage of the shocker 
see VOCE, page 11 on this page, as well as on pages 1, 8 and 11. 

Irish win makes ACC crowd go crazy, almost too crazy 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame student body had come under fire of late for its less-than­enthusiastic support. Sunday the students put that notion to rest. If anything, they were over-enthusiastic. 
"When it's time for these mo­ments," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps, "(the students) don't let you down. Gary Voce was named MVP, but I think the second votes went to the student body. They were just 
• 
awesome. That's the best I've up with them, which is fine with seen since 1974." me. He really got the students 
The students, as is tradi­fired up at the Marquette tional for big games, stood game." throughout and created a When Donald Royal canned deafening roar from the time the game's first bucket, a bliz­the Irish stepped on the floor zard of toilet paper hit the court for pregame warm-ups. They along with a few of the 10,000 had jeers for each of the Tar yellow ND placards. Phelps Heel starters when they were warned the crowd that a introduced. repeated display would cost his 
"Pat Walsh, one of our stu­squad a technical foul. Almost dent managers, came up with disastrously, his plea went those introductions that you see unheeded. in the seats," explained "They warned me the first Phelps. "He was really upset time that the next time some­with the students so he came thing came out it, it would be a technical," said Phelps. "I had to get to the P A to warn the students. When something else came out, I said to (referee) Joe Forte, 'That was a North Carolina fan."' 
With five seconds remaining in the game and Notre Dame up 58-55, the crowd began to celebrate, and the signs rained down on the court. With Voce heading to the line, referee Gerry Donaghy whistled the Irish for a technical. "It would have been a tough situa­tion to to have your students lose the game for you," said Phelps. "It's just a question of who did it and why they did it. From that standpoint, we got away with it, but I think the students will be upset with each other." 
Voce hit both ends of the one­and-one to run the lead to five and keep the Irish on top. North 1 Carolina's Jeff Lebo hit the 
1 
technical shot and a last­
1 
second basket to end the game. 
1 
With that, the Notre Dame 
1 
faithful took to the floor to celebrate the victory they had 
see STUDENTS, page 11 

Comeback victory even sweeter after previous last-minute losses , 

By MARTY BURNS Assistant Sports Editor 

Already on the season they had been blown out. In another game, they blew a huge lead in the last few minutes and lost. They came up short in two other close attempts at an up­set. They were at times snakebitten, at times careless, and often painfully dull. 
But Sunday afternoon, they were the best team in college basketball -at least for one day. 
This Notre Dame basketball team, which many felt lacked the talent and chemistry which characterized many of the past great Irish teams, had done what only five other teams in Notre Dame's history had been able to do on the hardwood of the ACC: They had knocked off the No. I team in the country. 
And when it was all over, and the crowd had spilled onto the floor to help the Irish players cut down the nets, the scoreboard stated the unbeliev­able: ND 60, No. Carolina 58. 
"We just really wanted to win this game," said Irish coach Digger Phelps in a post-game conference room located safely away from the melee on the floor. "We've lost four games this year in the last minute, but I told the kids, 'You can play with anybody', and today was an opportunity for us to go for our moment." 
And what a moment it was. The Irish trailed the contest at one point 32-16, and found them­selves down 53-44 with only six minutes to go. In addition, junior guard David Rivers and junior center Gary Voce were playing with four fouls apiece. 
"We didn't crack when it was time for us to crack and that's a sign of maturity," noted Phelps. "We did a better job of controlling their trap in the second half and we started to I go inside more." 
The task of breaking the Tar Heels' swarming half-court trap (which yielded only three turnovers in the second half compared to eight in the first) fell to Rivers, while the usually­timid Voce erupted inside to power the Irish offense. 
"I think this whole year we've been searching for an identity," said Voce. "We've had a lot of heartaches this year, a lot of close games that we've lost. I think we felt like we really needed to win a big game. We knew all along we could play, but we needed this for our confidenoe." 
If anything should be able to give the Irish confidence as they head into the homestretch of the season and their now almost-assured NCAA Tourna­ment bid, it should be the man-
see COMEBACK, page 11 







