Inside Holy Cross -inside 

VOL. XXI, NO. 86 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6,1987 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Three platforms to run for SMC student body offices 
By MARILYN BENCHIK stated, "No experience necessary," Assistant Saint Mary's Editor and said, "So, we're just going to go for it." 
Canidates for Saint Mary's student Class officer canidates also attended body offices attended the second pre­the Thursday night meeting. Running election information meeting Thursday for senior class officer positions are: night. Julie Bennett, Ana Cote, Patti Petro, 
Election hopefuls were required to at­and Lorie Potenti. Potenti said they are tend only one of the two sessions. The not yet sure who will run for which po­first pre-election meeting was held sition. Wednesday night. Sandy Cerimele, "All four of us have had experience election commissioner, and Jeanne Hel­in working with student government in ler, student body president, set the the last three years, and we feel we guidelines for campaigning have a great senior class. We want to procedures. make next year the most memorable," 
. The three platforms, each consisting Petro said . of three canidates for the offices of Cote added, "Our experience is one president, vice president for student af­of the most important factors to be con­fairs, and vice president for academic sidered. We've already learned to deal affairs, are: Ann Rucker, Ann Reilly, with students' problems and the issues and Ann Eckhoff; Sarah Cook, Janel which may arise." Hamann, and Jill Hinter halter; Eileen Canidates for the junior class posi­Hetterich, Smith Hashagen, and Julie tions of president, vice president, sec­Parrish. retary and treasurer include: Rose 
Rucker said the lack of student gov­Pietrzak, Anne Palamaro, Katy Burns, ernment experience of the members on and Barb Gullifor; Christy Wolfe, Mic­her ticket will not hinder their ability helle Agostino, Lisa La Malfa, and Tera as officers. "Experience doesn't just Sternitzke. come from holding an office in student Pietrzak stressed the importance of government. That's a type of experi­gathering interest in the student body. ence but, just by virtue of being Saint "It's very important to have at least a Mary's students, ... we know what the challenge. That way at least the inter­issues are, we know what people are est will be sparked on campus." interested in." "We're hoping to do a lot for the 
Reilly said they are well aware of the junior class as is everyone who is be­responsibilities of the positions. "We hind us is hoping also," she said. know exactly what we're getting into. The presidential hopeful wrapped up We know what our responsibilities are. her goal in one sentence. "When we We're responsible people." make promises, we will keep them." 
Eckhoff said their lack of student Wolfe's ticket chose p~rticipation as governement experience may be an ad­their campaign theme. "We've heard vantage. "We have a fresh way of a lot about getting involved. Saint looking at things. Sometimes if you're Mary's emphasizes participation for in office for awhile you get stuck in the the student body, and we hope by get­same ritual." ting involved, we can encourage every­
Said Reilly, "We've never held office one to get involved in and with the 
yet, but like Montanaro and Switek junior class," Wolfe said. 
said, we're coming out of the wood­Agostino said she and her running­
work, and we have a lot to offer to Saint mates want to get something done for
Two steps to go 

The Observer!Robert Jones Mary's." Saint Mary's. "As officers we feel we'll The home of the huddle, LaFortune, in as well as the abode of varied student Eckhoff referred to the information bring a positive aspect into student gov­its final stages of completion, has be­services. flyer on the upcoming elections which ernment.'' 

come a place to socialize with friends 


Extradited drug smuggler detained 
Associated Press Lehder, 37, called by U.S. attorney in Miami, hailed prosecuto~;s a violent, bil­Lehder's extradition, and 
TAMPA, Fla. -A neo-Nazi lionaire drug smuggler who called for Colombia to round up who allegedly vowed to "kill a heads a private army and helps other top drug dealers: Jorgefederal judge a week" if ar­lead the "Medellin Cartel" Ochoa Vasquez, Pablo rested, was brought under smuggling group, asked for Escobar-Gaviria and Jose heavy guard before a federal court-appointed counsel be­Rodriguez Gacha. magistrate Thursday on cause he had no funds with him. "One down, three to go," said charges of heading the world's "Most of my assets are Kellner. largest cocaine smuggling frozen by the government in In a separate, sweeping ring. Colombia," he told U.S. Miami indictment, Lehder and 
Carlos Lehder Rivas, who magistrate Elizabeth Jenkins. the other three accused traf­was seized by Colombian He sat at the defense table in fickers are accused of heading troops in his jungle hideout jeans, boots and a blue T-shirt a ring responsible .for 80 per­Wednesday and flown here by inscribed "Cycling." cent of the cocaine smuggled a U.S. Air Force jet, was or­U.S. attorney Robert Merkle into the United States. dered held for a formal hearing pressed for Lehder's immedi­The ring is accused of mur­Monday in Jacksonville, where ate detention, saying there had dering two Drug Enforcement he is under a 6-year-old indict­been death threats against a Administration agents,bribing ment on drug and conspiracy judge. government officials in fur­charges. "That's a lie!" Lehder therance of the conspiracy, and 
shouted in court. Merkle did not smuggling 58 tons of co!!aine 
Federal authorities refused elaborate. into the United States from lab­to say where they would hold Assistant U.S. attorney oratories scattered throughout Lehder, a self-proclaimed Ernest Mueller in Jacksonville the Amazon Basin. The smug­Nazi, until Monday. He was es­said Lehder said if he were glers had safe houses and 
corted into court by four U.S. caught "he would kill a federal vehicles to distribute drugs in marshals and several other judge a week until he is freed." federal agents. Meanwhile, Leon Kellner, see COCAINE, page 4 

. I 
Witnesses report sighting envoy Waite in Beirut 
Associated Press waving his hand to onlookers 
as he walked. He wore a gray 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Two taxi raincoat," said one witness. "I drivers said they saw missing stopped my taxicab to watch, hostage negotiator Terry Waite but the escorts waved me walking in a southern Beirut away, shouting,'Don't stop. suburb Thursday with an es-Drive on.' I did." cort of about 10 gunmen and Waite wore a raincoat when four turbaned Shiite Moslem he was last seen by reporters. sheiks. Another taxi driver said he 
Waite, the 6-foot-7 Anglican saw Waite at the same time in Church envoy, was last seen by the same procession, smiling reporters Jan. 20 when he left and waving his right arm to on­the Riviera Hotel in West lookers on the left side of the Beirut to meet the kidnappers street. of two Americans. Since then, Both drivers work in the Waite has not contacted the neighborhood of the Riviera church or his family. Hotel, where Waite stayed be­
tween his arrival in Lebanon 
The taxi drivers, who spoke on Jan. 12 and the time he on condition of anonymity, told dropped from sight Jan. 20. the Associated Press they saw Waite came to Beirut to try Waite walking with his escorts to win the freedom of foreign in a street close to the Lebanese hostages. A total of 26 foreig­capital's airport highway at ap­ners, including eight proximately 3 p.m. Thursday. 
"I saw him smiling and see MISSING, page 4 

• 
----~­

r 
The Observer Friday, February 6,1987-page 2 


In Brief 
Notre Dame's Department of Music is sponsoring a University Artist Series concert at 4 p.m. Sunday at Washington Hall. Quink, a vocal quintet, will perform works by William Byrd, Claudio Monteverdi, Francis Poulenc and Maurice Ravel. Quink is comprised of Machteld van Woerden, Paula de Wit, Corrie Pronk, Harry van Berne and Cornelis de Koning. The concert is open to tre public with tickets available at the door. For more information, contact Eric Kuehner at 239-6201. -The Observer 
"Third World Awareness Week" begins Sunday with a talk by Enrique Dussel entitled "Liberation Theology and Its Implications for Latin American Development." The talk, which is sponsored by the Overseas Develop­ment Network and CfLA, will be given at 7 p.m. in the Memorial Library lounge. -The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, will speak on WSND-FM's "Ideas and Issues" program about the function of a university, with emphasis on the policies and actions of Notre Dame. The program will air at noon Sunday, Feb. 8. -The Observer . 
"The Catholic FaithSeries'' continueson Sunday and Tuesday with a presentation by Pat Gantz, C.S.C., from 7 to 8:30p.m. at the Keenail'Stanford chapel. Gantz will speak on "The Catholic Experience and Prayer." ­
The Observer 
Notre Dame graduatesKimKrasevacandLouNanni, having served two and a half years in Chile as Holy Cross Associates, have returned to campus and will be sharing slides and stories with interested students and faculty at the Center for Social Concerns at 4 p.m. Sunday. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
WVFI-AM 64,Notre Dame's campus radio station, is undergoing a major renovation of its carrier current transmission system. Because of the size of the campus and the complexity of the work, WVFI will be off the air until March 1 while the building takes place. In addition, WVFI is moving its studios and offices from O'Shaughnessy Tower to the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center. WVFI will be broadcasting from the new studios when the entire system is rebuilt. -The Observer. 
The "Pass-The-Buck"program, operated by Oregon State University's student government, provides students, faculty and staff with a way to handle many campus problems. People place written compliments and complaints in drop boxes on campus. A Student Affairs Task Force passes the "bucks" to the appropriate OSU office which investigates and responds to them. The Task Force then posts the bucks and their responses in the student union. -The Observer. 
Dillon Hall held an election last Thursday, January 29,1987, for new hall officers. John Walsh, former Dillon Hall president, resigned in December. Newly elected President Terry Lally, Vice President Tom Tracy, Secretary Chris Paulison, and Treasurer Jim Lammers took office on Monday, February 2, 1987. -The Observer 

Weather 
I've got sunshine on a cloudy day. When it's flurrying outside, mid 30s are the high, I say ... what could make me feel this way? The weekend! -Associated Press 

--Ihe__Qbse~~er---·' ------~ -.1.-::.Y.:., --­
Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Copy Edlt.>r.... ..... Cindy Petrites Typesetter ....................... Shawn Sexton Accent Layout................ Ann Biddlecom ........................................ Chris Reardon ........................................... Karen Webb News Edit.>r ....................... Regis Coccia Typist ............................... , Esther Ivory Copy Edit.>r ........................ Cathy Stacy ND Day Edit.>r ............... James Winkler Sports Copy Edlt.>r ............. Terry Lynch SMC Day Edit.>r ................ Karin Radar Viewpoint Copy Edlt.>r.. Gertie Wimmer Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Layout ..... Ann Marie Durning Phot.>grapher ................... James Carroll 
Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tille O!Menet" (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oltterver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S-40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tille O!Mener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olllener is a member of Tile Allodated P.-. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

New and Old World meet where family roots are found 
In an obscure twenty-houst:: village called Mistras outside Sparta, Greece, there is a cold Kathystream that crashes down through a V -shaped crevice in the mountains right into someone's Martin back yard. That stream has been there forever, it seems, though the village itself is simultane­Assistant Accent Editor ously ancient and modern. Each house or hut has a tall white stone wall around it. The main street is a dirt alley. The countryside of olive groves spreads out to infinity. Old women in black dresses and black scarves llead goats by the tether into yards, and old men are sitting in the shade outside a dark cafe, drinking Turkish coffee and Ouzo and waiting for some­thing to happen. 


There it is easy to believe in time warps, in taking a step backward into a long-ago history and culture. But then the modern age intrudes with anachronisms: a dirty car parked in the alley, power lines spanning the foothills of the Peloponnesian mountains, and one faint neon sign hanging over the awning of the only cafe1.nn in town. 
The village itself probably hasn't changed much since my own great-grandmother grew up there a century ago. Tracing my family roots and exchanging information with distant Greek cousins in America led me to search out that stream in a forgotten village, which in turn led four generations of family have been born, me to my own family's backyard. lived, laughed, cried, loved, and died. But they 

Of course the family was long gone, do. emigrated almost a century ago to better for­There's something a bit glamorous and tune in the New World. A new Greek family romantic about claiming ancestry in Europe or had painted the old stone house bright yellow. Asia or some other exotic faraway land. After On the laundry lines hung bluejeans and tee a while, the Greek village didn't feel exotic, shirts and children's overalls. It wasn't quite though. It felt natural to climb the hills where the grand historical picture my relatives had my great-grandmother played as a child, painted of the huge estate surrounded by lemon maybe had her first kiss, and dreamt of what trees and olive groves. But the front yard was would become of her life. Do I look like her? a dense jungle of orange trees that my own What if I had grown up in southern Greece in ancestors had planted. There were goats the 1880s and she had been the American des­waiting in a pen to be milked and chickens cendant visiting a century later? What if the huddled under the house. It was still the home family had never emigrated from Greece to of my family, and the old Greek woman eyeing America? me suspiciously from the porch nodded, "Yes, In the hustle and bustle of modern society, yes," in recognition when I recited the family human values change as rapidly as technology. name. That was all we could say; she spoke no Maybe some of us search out our roots because English, I spoke no Greek. we yearn for the simple life of the Old World 
I guess there is something nostalgic in or our own carefree childhood. We cling to the Americans especially that makes us want to family unit as a symbol of survival of centuries find our family roots. We explore the Old and wars and floods and famines. It is a sad Country abroad, despite cultural and language fact that families do die out over the years, and barriers, or we return to the old neighborhood ties to relatives abroad are forgotten over the to find tall weeds grown over the sidewalks miles and years. But in a tiny village in southern where we rode our bikes, the park flattened to Greece, I drank from a stream running through a parking lot. I don't know how these foreign the backyard of my family's old home, the same or only faintly familiar alleyways and creeks stream from which my ancestors and their an­can tug at the heart and memory after a century cestors drank. Halfway across the world, there of water has passed through the streams and are family roots and there is home. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Film Series 
This week at the Snite: 
A Sunday in the Country (1984) 

Color, 94 minutes, directed by Bertrand Tavernier, France Friday, February 6, 7:30 and 9:30p.m., Snite Tavernier recreates an afternoon at the home of Monsieur Ladmiral, an elderly artisit of wide renown in turn-of-the-century France. Country is a subtle and involving study of the emotional bonds and diverse philosophies that exist within one family when Ladmiral's children and grandchildren visit for the day. 
Rules of the Game (1939) BW, 108 minutes, directed by Jean Renoir, France Monday, February 9, 7 p.m., Snite Arguably Renoir's finest masterpiece about an unlikely and volatile mixture of aristocrats and commoners who gather together for a weekend outing at a country chateau. The resulting social and romantic intrigues provide a hilarious, yet sobering examination of an outdated class system and its eventual replacement. 
Freud ( 1962) BW, 120 minutes, directed by John Huston, USA Monday, February 9, 9 p.m., Snite Montgomery Cliff (I Confess) plays Freud in this intelligent, straightforward film biography that centers on the treatmE:nt of a boy who is attached to his mother and on Freud's difficulties in finding acceptance for his revolutionary methods. With Susannah York. 
Medium Cool (1969) Color, 110 minutes, directed by Haskell Wexler, USA Tuesday, February 10, 7:30p.m., Snite A TV cameraman serves as the eyes through which the viewer sees the tumultuous 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago in this semi-documentary. The realities of death, hypocrisy, hatred and revolution are contrasted to the idyllic romance the cameraman pursues. 

Individual admission: $1.50. Season tickets are also available. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. CaH 239·5303 for details. 

an arts and cultural magazine for ND/SMC 
The Observer -February 6, 1986 


For some it's a steppin' stOne 
PAITI TRIPATHI 
features writer 

ust north of SouthJ Bend's city limits stands an Institution of higher learning that remains foreign to most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, despite its close prox· lmity to both campuses: Holy Cross Junior College. The Col· lege provides education for .354 students from 22 states and 12 foreign countries. 
"Holy Cross Junior College is kind of a stepping stone to many students," said Brother John Driscoll, the president· dean of Holy Cross Junior Col· lege. 
"As many as 70 percent of these students transfer to senior colleges. This number is much higher than the .30 per· cent national average," said Driscoll. 
Holy Cross Is run by Brothers of Holy Cross, a teaching com· munlty of Religious In the Cath· ollc Church. Holy Cross enables many to attain associate degrees and to transfer to prominent universities around the country. . 
According to the Holy Cross Junior College Bulletin, In some Institutions the associate degree is considered a terminal degree and Is awarded after the successful completion of a sequence of courses which are usually not transferable. At other institutions, the gaining of the associate degree lndl· cates the successful completion of half of a four-year baccalau­reate program. 
The curriculum Is broad enough to be satisfying for any student planning a curriculum along the lines of a typical gen· eral education of a senior col· lege. According to Driscoll, the curriculum at Holy Cross Is 
very similar to that of Notre' · Dame and Indiana State. 
freshman composition, foreign language, history and social science, philosophy, and theology are the core courses during the freshman and soph· 
omore year. 
"Many kids get turned away (from other colleges and uni· versities) because of high entrant criteria. A place like this Is kind of a stepping stone," said Driscoll. "I do not think (more than) 6 or 10 of the 400 students we trans· ferred would have made It to Notre Dame. But now we have doctors, lawyers, and many other professionals. 
The Holy Cross Bulletin says that many of the transfer-Intent students have the ability to succeed at senior college, but wish to have the opportunity to test their abilities-while making progress toward the bachelor's degree. 
WNDU's Maureen McFadden Is one of the well-known stu­dents who attended Holy Cross 

Junior College and later trans· 
ferred to Saint Mary's College 
according to Driscoll. 
The opportunity to study at 
Notre Dame or Saint Mary's Is 
one of many reasons that stu· 
dents attend Holy Cross. Last 
year, .35 people transferred to 
Notre Dame. Driscoll pointed 
out that more students transfer 
to Arts and Letters Colleges . 
"The cost Is another reason 
for attending Holy Cross Junior 
College," said Driscoll. "Many 
students select the college 
since they have the desire to 
attend a small college while 
malntalng their ties with family 
and friends." 
The $80 per credit hour tul· 
tlon allows many to attain 
higher education. Approxl· 
mately two-thirds of the stu· 
dents attending Holy Cross are 
South Bend • Mishawaka area 
residents. 
The third group of students 
are those who are employed ' full time and attend classes on 
a part-time basts. According to 
Driscoll almost 70 percent of 
the students fall In this group. 
' 
see OUTLOOK, page 4 
Scene-Page 2 
The Observer-February 6, 1987 

So,ea••er: Eugene Genovese 
•......·. •0:' Top~c "Religious Founda­
. > 0 • of Education in SOuthern ·· ·· ···.. Slave Society" 
Time and place to be ·an­nounced. 
speaker: Dr. William AmoukO Topic: "History of Music · African to Jazz" 
Auditorium 
-

Something for everyone 
V
SUSAN BUCKLEY from George Mason University theme is the unprecedented features writer and Eugene Genovese from the addition of the fashions of two Religious Foundation of Educa­black designers to those of oices rang out at Washing­tion in Southern Slave Society. South Bend clothes stores. ton Hall last Sunday night These and the other speakers "We'd really like to emphasize as the Notre Dame Gospel En­are the most important parts of their participation in the show. semble held a concert marking the Festival in its observance of It's something that has never the opening of the 1987 Black Black History/Awareness month. been .done before," says March 24 Cultural Arts Festival. UMOJA, Education is also an important Barker. Speaker: Bill Slack Artist an African word for unity, is the goal of the Festival. This facet Barker also praised the use 
Topic: "He Who Controls the major emphasis of the annual is presented through a a dis­of Theodore's as the location 
Image Controls the Defini· February Festival which play in the library corridor. This for both the Fashion Show and tion" celebrates the nationally recog­year's topic is the N.A.A.C.P. the Talent Show. "Having these nized Black History/Awareness (The National Association for events take place there allows month. Various events, Includ­the Advancement of Colored the BCAF to be assimilated into ing a talent show and a fashion People).The other events em-· the University," she says. She show, will take place through­phasize the talents of individ­hopes that more than only out this month and into March. uals and are essentially for en­black students will be encour­The goal of the Festival, ac­tertainment. aged to attend. 


FREE
cording to BCAF Chairperson The next upcoming event is Esther Ivory, is to bridge the the Talent Show which is Esther Ivory expressed the gap between the black culture scheduled to take place at same hope when discussing and the majority. "Many Theodore's on February 14 at 7 the success of past Black Cul­
SOUP®SALAD 
talented and intelligent black p.m. This year's Chairperson, tural Arts Festivals. She feels people make contributions to Monique Headly, invited not that there exists a "difficult 
~your choice o;he following entrees B'UFFEJ'
the black community and soci­only Notre Dame students to misconception" which allows 
plus Baked Potato, French Fries, Vegetable or Rice Pilaf.
ety as a whole," she says. "We participate but also residents of the Festivals to only be "suc­want to present these people to South Bend. Two different high cessful to an extent." The low 
•Cod Bella Vista •Prime Rib 
Notre Dame, St. Mary's and schools' groups have accepted white student turnout at the 
•Rolled Sole Only •Fried Seafood OnlySouth Bend." The Black Cul­and will join in the skits, dan­BCAF events shows that most 
with Broccoli $£95 Platter ~5 
tural Arts Festival has been an cing and singing to take place. people feel the Festival is es­
•Cajun Chicken U'" •Chicken Teriyaki'"" /­
annual affair at Notre Dame The show is not meant to be a sentially for black students. since the early 1970's. It tradi­competition; in past years the Ivory denies this when she 
Available every evening, Feb. 2nd thru Feb. 28th 
tionally has sponsored five acts weren't even judged. This says, "Our ultimate goal is to basic events: the opening year, however, there will be have an integrated turnout for 
In Lounge FREE APPETIZERS Mon. thru Fri. 4:30 til 6:30 p.m. 
Gospel Choir Concert, the Tal­judging and cash prizes as in­our events. We want to expose 
300 E. Colfax

ent Show, the Fashion Show, a centives for people to partici­the entire campus to these library display and the pate. talented and intelligent black 
at the River 

Reservations Accepted 
presentation of a few notable Another main event of the artists ofwhom students might 
black speakers. The 1987 Fes­Festival is the Fashion Show on not be aware." Ivory closed 
234-4477 tival has been expanded to in­February 28, also at her introductory letter about clude four more speakers than Theodore's. "This year the tl1e 1987 Black Cultural Arts last year's two. This addition show will be a dedication to Festival with the quote: "Hope­has necessitated the affair's black designers," says Vallerie fully the spirit of UMOJA will be continuation into March. Ivory Barker, who is chairing the contagious. We invite the Notre and the BCAF hope that next event with Edward Augustine Dame, Saint Mary's and South 
Bil&" 
year the Festival will be ex­and Hiawatha Francisco. The Bend communities to support tended from one or two reason for using the dedication the events with your presence 
[:)J

months to all year. "That way as part of their Fashion Show and 'Hear the Voices of Unity.'" there will be time for even more events, and recognition of the black culture will not be restricted to just one or two months," she says. 
The number of Festival events has doubled this year because more people have been Involved in the planning, according to Ivory. The BCAF, which sponsors the five basic events, is joined by the Black Cultural Arts Council, the Black Studies Department Notre Dame's College of Business and Notre Dame's Law School, each of which has contributed 

<L
additional speakers. 
SPRING BREAK SIZZLES AT DAYTONA BEACH. Concerts, games,
Ivory feels that this con­

p~_!!ies, exhibitions, freebies, golf, tennis, jai alai, greyhound racing,
glomeration of different groups 
gr.eat nightlife and the best beaches in Florida. It all happens in the has illustrated the Festival's 
Daytona Beach Resort Area, home ofthe National Collegiate Sports "UMOJA: Hear the Voices of 
Festival. Unity" theme. "Various organi­
Pack your car, hop on atour bus or catch aflight on Delta, Eastern, Piedmont or Presidential Airlines. Atravel agent can make all the
zations have taken an impor­
arrangements at no added charge. So, call 800·535-2828 or 800· 
tant step toward achieving uni­
854·1234 (in Florida) for more information. ~ 
ty," she says, "By working together, they have promoted 
Follow the Road to DlyiOIIIIIeach on llr,\l! 
it." 
FREE POSiER OFFER: For a17• x 21• Daytona Beach poster, send The speakers which these. 
your name and address to: Daytona Beach Poster Offer, 500 Third groups have attained for the 
Ave. West, Seattle, WA 98119. 1987 Festival include Mary 
Na~ ------------------------------~­
~OOd ________________________________
Francis Berry, a political activist 
concerned with civil rights; Wal­Address ------------------------­
ter Williams, an economist Cly -------State--Zip ---­
The Observer-February 6, 1987 Scene-Page 3 
IMass____~
L....--­
Masses for this weekend at Sa­cred Heart Church are: Saturday night at 5 p.m. Sunday at 9 and 10:.30 a.m. and 
12:15 p.m. 1 

The Century Center in down­town South Bend will be the site of the Mlchlana Auto Show tonight. tomorrow and Sunday. \..ars will be on display from 12­
10 p.m. tonight and tomorrow and from 12-6 p.m. Sunday. For more Information call the Cen­tury Center at 284-91 I I. 
\ $JQO Deposit D Feb 12
f\ 

a Call Jeff 3660 or Joe 1190 ... 



The Scoop 
Theater 

"The Ballad of Baby Doe", an American opera, will be on stage at Goshen College this weekend. The opera Is a musical comedy about the tragic consequences of a forbidden love affair. Shows will begin at 8 p.m. tonight. to­morrow and Sunday, with an ex­tra performance Sunday at 3 
p.m. Tickets are $5 for adults and $3 for students. For more Information call 533-3161. 
•
J 

The Student Activities Board presents "Prlzzl's Honor" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engi­neering Auditorium. Jack Nickol­son and Kathleen Turner star In this gripping melodrama about a man torn between his love for a woman and his duty to honor his family's pride. Shows begin at 7, 9:.30 p.m. and midnight. Admission is $1.50. 
A guide to movie theaters In the South Bend-Mishawaka area: Forum I and II Cinema 
52709 U.S. 31 N. 277-1522 Now playing: "Hoosiers," "A 
Fascination," "The Kindred" and "Wanted Dead or Alive." 100 Center Cinema I and II 
100 Center, Mishawaka 259-0414 Now playing: "Star Trek IV" and 
"The Three Amigos." 
River Park Theatre 2929 Mishawaka Ave. 288-8488 
•
"' 
'Prlzzl's Honor' 
"A Sunday In the Country" will Scottsdale Theatre be showing tonight at the Annen­115.3 Scottsdale Mall berg Auditorium. Set In turn-of­291-458.3 the-century France, this fllm ex­Town and Country Theatre plores the emotional bonds that 2.340 Hickory Rd., Mishawaka arise when a renown artist is 259-9090 visited by his children and Now playing: "Golden Child," grandchildren who hold "The Mission" and "Platoon." philosophies on life very differ­University Park Cinema I, II and ent from his own. Shows start at Ill 7:.30 and 9:.30 p.m. Admission Is .366 University Park Mall $1.50. 277-0441 
Art 
~I 

The Saint Mary's campus galleries this weekend continue to host two art exhibits. "Ruth Sinclair's Personal Papers" will be displayed at the Moreau Gallery and "Robert Berkshire's Paintings and Drawings" go on exhibit at the Little Theatre and Hammes Galleries. Gallery hours are 9:.30 to noon, 1 to .3 p.m. Monday though Friday and Sun­day 1 to .3 p.m. Both exhibits will be on display through Feb. 20. 

!Music 
IR 

The Notre Dame music depart­ment Is sponsoring a guest vocal quintet concert, QUINK. as part of the University Artists Series. The performance will be Sunday at 4 p.m. In Washington Hall. For more Information contact Eric Kuhner at 2.39-620 I. 
Tonight Freddie Jackson with Ray, Goodman and Brown will be
1 

performing tonight at the Holiday Star Theatre In Merril­lville, IN. The shows start at 7:.30 and 11 p.m. and tickets are $17.95. For tickets call Tlcketron at 21!¥769-6600. 
The South Bend Symphony Or­chestra welcomes violinist Franco Gulli to the Morris Civic Auditorium tomorrow night. He will perform the VIolin Concerto In EMinor by Mendelssohn, Tom­beau de Couperln by Ravel, and Symphony No. 9 by Schubert. The performance will begin at 8:15p.m. For tickets and Infor­mation call 2.32-6.34.3. 

........~--...-~-------------~--~----------~~~-.~--~~----~~------------------------..--~----~~----~~~~--------~------~-----· 
The Observer-February 6, 1987 

continued from page 1 
The 24 member faculty of Holy Cross is composed of reli­gious, as well as lay-men and women. "Many (faculty mem­bers) have attained graduate degrees from Notre Dame and Saint Edward's University, Aus­tin, Texas," Driscoll. The student-faculty ratio is 20.9 to 
1. Of the .354 students, 67 per­cent were male and .3.3 percent female. 
The bulletin also states that the College Boards (SAT) or the American College Testing Pro­gram (ACT) examinations are not required for admissions to Holy Cross. "We ran a correla­tional study between grade point average and verbal SAT scores. The correlation was . 16 after one year," said Driscoll expressing his disapproval of standardized College board tests. 
Holy Cross does not provide on-campus housing. Most stu­dents live in Campus View Apartments, Notre Dame Apart­ments, or with friends and relatives. "We are not inter­ested in hotel business," said Driscoll about the lack of housing for students. "We have a functional relationship with the students. They go to classes -almost like a job." 
Holy Ct'oss first opened in the fall of 1966 with its first class limited to student Brot­hers. Male students from the South Bend-Mishawaka area were enrolled for the fail, 1967 semester. The College became co-educational in the fail of 
1968. 
The Brothers of Holy Cross were the first community of teaching Brothers to make a permament foundation ih the United States (184 I) and as­


Color provided by Anbeuser-BuKb, Inc. 

'v"·v· 


+ 
•-a LMU w 4

a a -... 4 -•• Scene~Page 4· 5 

k from the inside 




• 
• 
+ 

-
~----~-----------------~~~--------------------~----------------------------------,----------~~ 
The Observer -February 6, 1987 Scene-Page 6 
The The well well worth worth the listen 
.' 
TOM TIERNEY features writer 
n Infected, The The hasI produced one of the best albums in a long time, and Matt Johnson, who is The The, nas written a collection of songs that Paul Weller, from the Style Council, and Joe Strummer, from the Clash, can only dream about writing. 
Infected is basically a con­cept album concerning the depressing state of affairs in Thatcher's post-Falklands En­gland. Matt Johnson uses The The as a forum for articulating his views on British life, views which could be termed 'op­timistic pessimism.' 
Rather than simply complain· ing and criticizing the political and economic situation in the U.K., he takes the rather unique point of view that the problems of the world can be attributed to inner disharmony and conflicts within one's own personality and soul. And, in­stead of pointing fingers, he focuses chiefly on himself. 
Infected is Johnson's second album as The The. His first album, Soul Mining, is a synthesizer-based introspection 
Mu. ,,, 



noteS 
Associated Press 
·*!". 
"I think the Clash have 
fourteen-year-old Intellects." 
Sting (The Police) 
''I got into music because It 
seemed like the best thing 
around that had the least laws 
and restrictions about it. The 
horror of becoming the new 
Rolling Stones keeps us 
honest. We saw the Stones as 
the way not to turn out," 
Joe Strummer (The Clash) 
"I had problems as a writer In 
the Beatles because when I'd 
present my songs, they'd all 
fall about on the floor laugh· 
lng." 
Ringo Starr 
Corey Hart's new single, Help Falling In Love," is 'a r .........k ... of the song Elvis Presley rh,•..t....rtl 
with in 1961. But When began recording his current a bum, "Fields of Fire," about last thing he had on his was the cover tune.. Hart,· normally writes all his own explains, "I was nnlnti•·'ttirn:otnlfd 
this old jukebox before record was released and I playing "Can't Help Falling In Love" over and over again. I wanted to sing it on my own and hear what it would sound Uke." Well, obviously it sounded good, so much so that It has become the hottest single on the album. Not bad for a song which was intended as a single's B-slde at best, and not meant to be on the album at all. 
"When I get back to Min­nepolis I'll probably take a long bath. I haven't had one In a long time. I'm SQlred of hotel bathtubs." 

that yielded one minor hit, "This is the Day," which has become the theme song for a certain off-campus house. In· fected reaches out much more, and places much less emphasis on synthesizers, instead relying on horns and basses for its melodies, with an occasional string arrangement thrown in 
for added coloring. 
Every song starts out slow and builds, increasing its pace, as Johnson expresses his frustration. This frustration feeds upon itself, and the re­sulting energy released bring the songs to a crescendo, and their lyrics to a realization, usually in despair. 
"Infected" is the album's title track and first single, and is currently number five on the 
U.S. dance charts. It is a bona fide dance single, with heavy emphasis on the bass and drums, lots of trumpet, and a chorus that is chanted. It's lyrics address the situation where passion and desire have become poisqnous, a result of social diseases (especially AIDS) reaching epidemic pro­portions. 
"Twilight of a Champion" has an almost jazzy feel to it, and its melody is more typical of the rest of the album. Johnson seems to be attempting to be Henry Mancini here. The guitar and bass are mixed under­neath, and are Influenced by the "Peter Gunn Theme." In_ addition, the horns are ar­ranged with the same strains of a Mancini composition. 
Despite the jazzy catchiness of this album's melodies, the emphasis in all of the songs on Infected is the lyrics, and Johnson's voice figures prominently in each mix. He makes the claim that he doesn't know what's wrong or right on "Sweet Bird of Truth," 
but makes it clear that the cur­
rent situation in the U.K. is 
wrong, based on his bleak 
portrayal of an England 

enslaved by drug addiction, 
wealthy capitalists, and the 
U.S.A. England has, in fact, become the fifty-first stat1e of the U.S., according to Johnson. 
Infected is a passionate elocution of Johnson's frustra­tion with Thatcher's England. What makes this album great, however, is the fact that he combines biting satire with smooth melodies dominated by brass and string arrangements. 

.ny~ ~ 
Ilk 

~~JVo~~<e P2ame 
amd 

Y(U/d4'~ ~ ~tk~~~~ at tk !/~ ff~ ~~ p)lltnee 
.Mt 

!/~, tk t&i1.4d 

JV~~amd~ 
_nrg~~ 
[JJ~~ 
17~«M~Y~ 
~~,..!~ 


-

-~--~--­

The Observer-February 6, 1987 Scene-Page 7 


Three's not a crowd here 
TELE-TRIVIA 
DON SEYMOUR features writer 
C 
rowde<1 House is a band from Down-Under led by former Split Enz singer/songwriter Neil Finn. The group took their name from the cramped bungalow the threesome shared while record· ing this album in L.A. That ex· perience may have proved frustrating. but the resulting album is pure sparkle. 
Records 

~\;Crowded House \'\ ~ Crowded House 

Don't let the surreal. semi· sacrilegious jacket fool you. The vinyl is filled with sweet melodies and tight songs that make this, already, one of the best albums of the year. 
Crowded House's music defies labels. The group is not a guitar band, and it is not a synth band. The threesome is as comfortable using organ and acoustic guitars and vocal harmonies as It is with rocking guitar and smashing drums. 
Don't worry, though; this is no sixties revival. This Is pure eighties pop, Infinitely lis· tenable and ultimately in· definable. I hate to compare bands, but the closest equiva· lent of this sound Is Squeeze · not that Crowded House is a Squeeze-retread. Au contralre. The two simply share a dedica· tlon to stron~ pop songs with Infectious melodies and clear lyrics, using all the sounds a band can make and melding them into a workable whole. 
The first single from this col· lectlon "Don't Dream It's Over," currently crawling Its way up the bottom of the U.S. Hot I 00, Is a subdued, but sweet lament. 
As a lyricist, he is largely 
concerned with divisions In 
relationships, and lack of com­
munication: 

Hey now, hey now 
Don't dream It's over 
Hey now, hey now 
When the world comes In 
They come, they come 
To build a wall between us 
You know they want to win. 
He seems moved, but utterly baffled by love, which starts off so wonderful, and turns so sour. For insi..mce, in "I Walk Away," he sings: You came out of the world to 
me 
My life parted like the Red Sea We noat easy between the 
rocks and stones 
That never seemed to stop us 
The years ended In confusion Don't ask me, I don't know what happened •.• 
... I turn from my home To the unknown I walk away from you. 
The tone here is not bitter at all, but bewildered. Finn does not only seem baffled but amused as well by love. In "The World Where You Live" he tries to understand his lover's perspective. And in "Now We're Getting Somewhere" he asks "Why does It take so long to realize something's wrong?" 
It is hard to pick favorite songs because this album is so consistent and fine throughout. Mitchell Froom, a hot com­modity these days in progres· sive music, produced this col· lectlon for the band. The partnership worked so well that the band members are dog­gedly pestering Froom to be· come a permanent member of Crowded House. Whether the 

THE MUPPETS 
1. Who was the host of "The Muppet Show?" 
2. 
Miss Piggy was determined to be a star; anyone who disagreed with her got what? 

3. 
Rowlf the shaggy dog played whicli musical instrument? 

4. 
What were the names of the two old geezers who sat in box seats and cracked awful jokes? 


5. Who was the creator of the Muppets? 
6. In how many different countries was "The Muppet ,Show" seen? 
'patp1'8.M. a1doed uonuw OtZ U'8t{l a.~om puu •sep1uno:> 1Ua.19J ·JJP OOI 1somp ll! uaes su.M. ...M.oqs 1eddn:w ett.t, '9 
-UOSU9H UlJf '9 popp.M puu ..l\lf.J'81S 't 'OU'9'!d Qt{l p9A\1{d JIA\O'll 'S ·doq:> Q1'8.11U( u waq1 MUS ASlf!:d SS!W 'Z So.q aq11'fULI9}1 'I 
VIAI11J.3T.!IJ. OJ. S11:u\.SNV 
group succeeds in nabbing Froom or not. this is a band to watch. 
One question remains: Will narrow-minded American radio be willing to accept Crowded House? And will the band will be fated to the same predlca· ment as General Public and their latest album · Infectious and commercial. but out-of· synch with the American scene. 
I honestly believe most stu­dents who like Squeeze will like Crowded House. Give them a chance. 



XTC is ecstasy to the ears 

Ann Seifert features writer 
I 
n 1978, In the midst of the punk craze in the United States and the United Kingdom, a three-member En· glish group, XTC, released Its first album, White Music. Com· pletely different from punk. this music relied heavily on weaving vocals and melodies as op­posed to screaming lyrics and pounding drums. 

Records 
XTC 
Skylarking 

XTC In 1987 Is still going 
strong and Is currently er1Joylng 
great success from their eighth 
album, Skylarking. 
In England, "Skylarking" is a term for kissing, so the fact that most of the songs are about relationships comes as no surprise. "Grass" and the single "The Meeting Place" deal with courtship and "Big Day" is about the wedding day and cautions, "So you want to tie the knot. Tie It tight don't let It rot." "I.000 Umbrellas" ·ts about breakup and when Andy Partridge, the lead vocalist. sings "Misery oh oh misery," the listener wants to cry right along with him. 
The best cuts, although there are no weak ones, are probably the singles "Earn Enough For Us" and "Season Cycle." Also, the opening "Summer's cauldron" sets the mood beautifully. 
Many of the songs are mixed so that there are no pauses In between. This emphasizes the fact that the album plays very well as a whole. 
XTC's last album was released a long two years ago, but Skylarking was definitely worth the walt. Unfortunately, Andy Partridge dislikes touring and live concerts, so a tour would seem unlikely. This al­bum Is certainly one of the strongest efforts to come out In the past year. 

Career Day in INDY 
Tues., Mar. 3 in Indianapolis 

WHO: Anyone interested in 
-Accounting  -Journalism  
-Finance  -Law  
-Health Care  -Many others  

WHAT: Spend a day with an Alum in the REAL WORLD! COST: $12 (Includes transpo. & meals) 
aponsored by the Alumni Association 
Returns WHEN: Bus leaves Tues. Bam 10pm APPLICATIONS: Only 30 Openings! DUE: Fri., Feb. 6 AVAILABLE IN: Alumni Office 2nd fl. Admin. Bldg. 239-6000 

Career Day in DETROIT 
Fri., Feb. 27 WHO: Anyone interested in 
-Accounting  -Law  
-Advertising  -Public Relations  
-Finance  

WHAT: Spend a day with an Alum in the REAL WORLD! COST:$20 (includes transpo., hotel & dinner) 
sponsored by the Alumni Association 

WHEN: Bus leaves Thurs. 7pm 
Returns Fri. 10pm APPLICATIONS: Only 30 Openings! DUE: Fri., Feb. 6 AVAILABLE IN: Alumni Office 2nd fl. Admin. Bldg. 239-6000 
-
~-~-------~­
---~ 

The Observer-February 6, 1987 Scene-Page 8 
Making mincemeat out of myth 
P 
art of one's education, it seems to me, consists in a search for a philosophy or a mythology which will be helpful to one in setting up a value system or otherwise furnish comfort for getting through the night. Some people join health clubs which elevate jogging, roughage and wheat germ into the sacramentals of a faith. Other practice fidelity of beliefs which the fundamentalist preachers denounce as secular humanism. Even more secular than the humanists are the playboys who adopt a lifestyle based on the philosophy of the slick magazine they use as a bible. commentaries were right when they identified the Catholic Church as the 'whore of Babylon' of which the Book of Revelation gives warning, and he answered, "I wouldn't be surprised." Cardinal Newman wrote that as a child he prayed for the Arabian Nights to come true. When Newman grew up to become a Catholic priest, Lyt­ton Strachey remarks, he found out that his prayers had been answered. 

Old folk-Catholics used to practice a kind of skepticism that seems very healthy. "The priests and bishops say more than their prayers," the old folks would remark; "Half the 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Millions, as this campus well knows, turn to hard-core reli­gion, with a theology based upon revelation of truths by God which are deemed essen­tial not only for understanding this life, but also as a prepara­tion for Inheriting Kingdom Come. Over 40 years ago I subscribed --hook, line and sinker--to the most arrogant of all the religions, one that was so overbearing that I claimed it had no equals in the field. Not to leave you in suspense: I joined the Roman Catholic Church. 
I liked the outfit so well that I decided I wanted to be a priest. I was ordained in 1949, but nearly 33 years of the or­dained life haven't turned me into a theologian or a scholar with credentials as a referee. I hope, however, that it allows me to ask what's happening to this dear old Church of mine, without sounding like a homey­backed, moss-covered throw­back to the Middle Ages. 
One of the world's greatest myths is that of the eternal Christ risen from the dead, and a secondary myth contingent upon It Is that of the Church holding the keys of the kingdom: "Upon this rock, I will build my Church," said the Lord to Peter the fisherman. "The gates of hell will not prevail against it." 
I appreciate how elaborate the myth is. As a Baptist, I asked the pastor if the Bible 

River Park Theatre 
Starts Friday: 
Sid and Nancy(R) 7:15 and 9:15 daily 


things they say should be taken with a grain of salt." A recent archbishop of New York, when asked if the Pope is really infallible replied, "Everytime I meet him, he gets my name wrong." Anglicans are quick to point out that Queen Elizabeth I, daughter of Henry VIII, was excommunicated in a book that named her a Presbyterian. Who says the Pope can't make a mistake? 
A more serious kind of attack on the myth of the P<Jpe as infallible teacher came with the protestors led by Martin Luther, one of the leaders of the Protesant Reformation. Today, the in-house critic of the teach­ings defended on high as offi­cial is not so busy protesting as he is dissenting. When, If ever, does dissent take on the earmarks of a protest? East is east and west is west; maybe the dissenters, trying to upstage the Vatican, stay poles apart from the protestors. But would it be unpardonable for this amateur to admit that he's beginning to have a deja vu 
feeling? 

The essential, non-negotiable truth of the Christ-myth, as a mere practicing Catholic lil~e me would understand it, has to do with the Resurrection. "If Christ be not risen from the 
.dead," wrote St. Paul, "our 
preaching is in vain, and your 
faith is in vain." If you write the 
theology of the Resurrection 
however, you have to keep in 
mind that the love in Christ 
was stronger than death. Death 
and the grave couldn't defeat 
that love, or the Word who is 
Love, or the Father who loved 
His Son so much. He would 
not allow His Holy One to see 
corruption. Am I imagining 
tflis, or have I listened too long 
to Jimmy Swaggart? 

Maybe I'm too impressed 
with the size of the myth. 

Maybe I'm imagining myst:lf as 
one of the participants in lthe 
Arabian Nights. St. Paul writes 
to the Phillipians, "In your 

mind you must be the same as 
Jesus Christ. His state was 
divine, yet he did not cling to 
his equality with God but 

emptied himself to assume the 
form of a slave, and became as 
men are; and being as all men 
are, he was humbler yet, even 
to accepting death, death on a 
cross ... " 

This image of kenosis, or 
emptying, may be more mythi­
cal than anything a cynical 
world is willing to stomach, but 
if you can believe the myth of 
the Incarnation and redeeming 
love, can you be contemptuous 
of the Church for idealistically 
imposing a tough kind of dis­
cipline on the symbolic pt:rsons 
called to the ministry? 

The Church would still be the 
Church, even if the celibaq 
required from priests were re­
negotiated; the myth woulld still 
be just as Christian if all priests 
were husbands and fathers 
struggling to pay the orthodon­
tist. But, for the present, what 
antidote does the Church have for the bitterness and hateful criticism shown by the dis­senters against clerical celibacy, who aren't being the least bit helpful about filling up the seminaries? 
Every priest is warned about what he will have to put up with when he's ordained; the demands imposed on him by the mythology of the eternal priesthood are not a secret. It shouldn't surprise him to dis­cover that the Church takes a thousand years to reach a deci­sion a human being can make in twenty minutes .or less. 
Where is the imitation of the love of Christ in the anger that seems ready to topple the Church over the issue of wo­men's rights? As long as the women feel they are treated like second-class citizens of the Church, the Holy Spirit has work to do. The men are not deaf to what the women are saying; the Holy Spirit will not be slow in helping them take the women's complaints to their hearts. But if it's all a matter of ugly politicking and verbally tweaking the Pope's nose, the women could be or­dained to play in a ballgame that's already over. By then we may have convinced ourselves, as well as the watching world, that the Catholic Church has "demythologized" itself into a defeat that makes it looks as though the gates of hell had prevailed against it. We'll be lucky if the ruined institution looks as good as the street tarts of Babylon. 
Catholics can't have their cake and eat it too; we can't preach love and practice self­hatred. We humiliate ourselves by bad-mouthing ourselves in a way that makes the leaders look like fools. Why put out the welcoming mat inviting strang­ers to join us if we reject the part of our mythology that as­sures us that the Lord is with us always? As Pogo used to say in the funny papers, "We have seen the enemy, and he is us." 
***************************** ic
<

l •• 
** ••
* 
. •

* 
SOPHOMORE CLASS OF '89 •. 


Weekend in Chicago: Feb. 20-22 (JPW Weekend) 
-Cost Is $60.00 -Quad Occupancy -Trip includes transportation and lodging at Day Inn of America on Lake Shore Drive on Friday 
and Saturday night -Signups In Sophomore Class office (2nd floo Lafortune by Friday Feb. 6th at 5pm 
********************************** 

Sf'~ AlCTIVITIES BOARD~ University of Notre Dame 
presents 
$PRINC BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
RiRht on the beach )\: RiRht in the middle ol the Stl'ip 
Drivi~lg Packape 


J. 189

Without Transportation .._ -f l~uad Occupancy ... 
Full Packape 

J.2 79

With Transportation.._ -f Quad Occupancy ...
INFO Meeting: Sun, Feb 8 1 :00 p.m. March 13-22, 1987 RM 122 Hayes-Healy 
To Sign Up Call 239-7757 

YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: 
• 
Seven nights accommodations at the totally new Riviera Resort Hotel. located right in the middle of the strip at 50S North Atlantic (A1A). This hotel has been totally reno­vated. making it one of the nicest hotels in the m1ddle of the strip. The Riviera has agreat cafe restaurant. one of the nicest pool decks anywhere. pool bar. and a niQht­club. Available are hotel rooms for four people and su1tes that sleep six (with kitchenette). Both have air condition­ing, color TV. and great new furnishings. 

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury high­way coaches to Ft. Lauderdale. Florida leaving Friday, March 13. Unlike others. we use the newest style buses available. 

• 
Pool deck parties eve,y other day. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts for you to use to save money at places you would go anyway. 

• 
The services of full time travel representatives available daily to throw parties and take good care of you. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. NOTRE 


Arrangements by 
ECHO TRAVEL INC. 

-
Friday, February 6,1987-page 3 
The Observer 


AP Photo 
about deploying a "Star Wars" missile defense 
system. 

CORAL NISSAN, INC. 

51176 U.S. 33 North 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 277-5800 
NOTRE DAM&ST. MARY'S STUDENT VIP DISCOUNT CARD entitles student to a 15°/o discount on PARTS•SERVICE•RENTAL CAR 
Rental car discount applies only while your car is in our shop for service work we service all makes and models 
tplease brin9 coupon) 
ND AVE APTS. arly Bird Specia~ 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 1Oo/o discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 


Reagan fond of old jokes as he reaches his 76th birthday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan has probably used his age as joke fodder more than anybody since Jack Benny. In fact, he's embellished on Ben­ny's most enduring joke so of­ten that he can claim on his birthday today that he is 39 for the 38th time. 
"I'm beginning to notice," Reagan said at a state dinner last year, ''that every time they bring out my birthday cake, the top of it is beginning to look more and more like a torchlight parade." 
Reagan, who loves nothing more than telling a good story, turns 76 on Friday and it seems appropriate to recall what he's said about aging over the last few years. 
In his State of the Union mes­sage last month, Reagan departed from his prepared text to say: "I am delighted you are celebrating the lOOth birthday of the Congress. It's always a pleasure to congrat­ulate someone with more birthdays than I've had." 
A favorite Reagan line with young people begins, "When I was about your age, if you can take your minds back that far..." and he reserves this one for Republicans: "You know, I've already lived some 20 years longer than my life ex­pectancy when I was born. And that's been a source of annoy­ance to a number of people." 
In Texas, at a political fund raiser, Reagan said he was par­ticularly glad to be there during the state's sesquicen­tennial because "I'm always happy to be any place that's twice as old as I am." 
He mentioned he was going on to Florida "where Ponce de Leon looked for the fountain of youth.'' After the laughter died down, the president said : "And just in case he found it, I've got a thermos jug with me." 
The president has an inex­haustible supply of Hollywood stories from his acting days. "I've been asked at times what it is like to sit and watch the late, late show and see your­self,'' he told an audience in the White House. "I have one an­swer. It's like looking at a son you never knew you had." 

'Rebuild trust,' Boren says 
nSSociated Press 

WASHINGTON -The chair­man of the Senate Intelligence Committee said Thursday the Iran-Contra uproar shows the need to restore trust between Congress and the spy agencies, while Reagan administration officials appealed to Congress to continue the flow of U.S. aid to the Nicaraguan rebels. 
Sen. David Boren, D-Okla., predicted there will be some proposals to tighten procedures for informing Congress of undercover activi­ties. He said that while he would endorse some changes in that respect, "I think the most important thing is attitude. 
You have to rebuild trust." 
The senator said he expected relations between Congress and the intelligence commu­nity to improve following the resignation of William Casey as CIA director. "Better chemistry" exists between Congress and Robert Gates, the man nominated by Presi­dent Reagan to succeed Casey, said Boren. 
Earlier, Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams told the Senate Foreign Relations Com­mittee that Nicaragua's Contra rebels can achieve a political victory against the leftist San­dinista government in Managua if military aid from the United States continues. 
Abrams' testimony came as the committee began weighing legislation which would pull the plug on all U.S. aid to the Con­tras while also blocking $40 mil­lion in assistance which still is in the pipeline. 
Lawmakers opposing admin­istration policy in Central America postponed action on legislation to block all further 
U.S. military and logistical as­sistance to the Contras until later in the month. They said they did so out of tactical con­siderations, due in part to the fact that Congress is leaving on a week-long recess. 
At the White House, Reagan's chief spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, told reporters the president's second meeting with the Tower 
r----------------------. Commission to review National 
Security Council operations will be held next Wednesday af­

Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
ternoon. 
Fitzwater said the panel, headed by former Texas Re­publican Sen. John Tower, would be provided with ex­
•'Cfn ~ /)/) ~ ~ cerpts of Reagan's notes on the tfi.OWe~ /(a~~ occasiOM. Iran affair before that inter­
view. Reagan first appearedComein and Browse before the panel on Jan. 26, and 327 Lincolnway the commission's report is due 
...._________________..;..._~ Feb. 19.
232~3354 


The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the follow­Ing position: 
1987-88 
Editor-in-Chief 
Questions should be directed to Joe Murphy. Applications are due by by February 12 at 5:00 
p.m. .The~Observer­
3rd Floor 
LaFortune Student Center 
239-5303 
He .said the board could re­quest material from particular dates, and then White House counselor David Abshire and 
• White House counsel Peter Wallison "will work out ex­cerpts that meet their re­quest." 
Asked if any material was off limits, Fitzwater said, "No. That's all subject to discussion ... I'm not trying to place any limitations on their interests." 
Fitzwater said he was not aware of any request by the special prosecutor to look at the president's notes. The White House has already said it would provide the material to con­gressional committees inves­tigating the Iran-Contra affair. 
The Observer Friday, February 6,1987-page 4 

'Forbidden' sequel to 'Gone with the Wind' forthcoming 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Will Scarlett O'Hara find a new love? Will Rhett Butler learn to give a damn? 
Some of the greatest un­answered qt·estions in Ameri­can literature may soon be an­swered. 
The estate of Margaret Mitchell, author of "Gone With the Wind" who adamantly op­posed a sequel, is working with a New York literary agent on an authorized novel continuing the story of Scarlett and Rhett. 
The book could be published as soon as next year, and a se­quel to the blockbuster 1939 
U.S. scraps antiterrorism rendezvous 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The United States, rebuffed by France and two other close allies, was forced Thursday to abandon plans for a seven-nation meeting in Rome on countering the rising tide of terrorism. 
Although State Department officials said military steps were not on the agenda, the reluctant allies did not wish to participate in a conference held in the shadows of a U.S. military buildup in the eastern Mediterranean. 
With eight Americans held hostage in Lebanon, there was apprehension that the United States might strike out in retaliation, as it did last April against Libya. 
France, which initiated the boycott, and Britain and West Germany, which also declined invitations to attend, all have hostages in Lebanon. 
The session was to have opened Friday and focused on the recent spate of abductions. 
"The question of military ac­tion was not on the agenda," spokesman. Charles Redman said in announcing the abrupt cancellation. 
He said Italy had agreed to a U.S. request to host the meeting of the seven largest in­dustrialized democracies but that "some of the summit group did not feel it would be propitious at this time." 
Redman said the United States had hoped for an ex­change of information on the "recent spate of hostage­takings." 


Cocaine 
continuedfrom page 1 
the United States. 
Whether Lehder will eventu­ally be tried on the outstanding Miami indictments, or only on the narrower, 1981 Jacksonville indictment,remains unknown, said Ana Barnett, spokes­woman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in Miami. 
"We really don't know what the status is on our cases," Ms. Barnett said Thursday. "It in­volves treaties and interna­tionallaw." 
movie is likely to follow, said 
T. Hal Clarke, an Atlanta at­torney who sits on a committee that represents the Mitchell es­tate in decisions concerning "Gone With the Wind." 
Clarke said Thursday that Stephens Mitchell, the author's brother, reluctantly agreed before his death in 1983 that the Mitchell family must proceed with a sequel, even though it would go against his sister's wishes. 
Mitchell, a real estate attor­ney, knew that if the family did not act, a flood of unauthorized sequels would be released when the ''Gone With the Wind" copyright expires in 2011, Clarke said. 
Miss Mitchell, who died in 1949 at age 48, probably would support the decision "in light of the present-day circum­stances," he said. 
Clarke and the two other at­torneys on the committee, all named by Stephens Mitchell in his will, have engaged the William Morris Agency to search for a novelist to write the sequel. 
They hope to reacha decision on a writer within a few weeks, he said. Selection of a publisher would follow, and Clarke said it may take a year to get the book in print. 
By contrast, Miss Mitchell, a former reporter for the Atlanta Journal Sunday Magazine, took 10 years to complete the book, the only one she published. 

"Gone With the Wind" fans will have to wait awhile to learn whether Scarlett and Rhett, whose rocky marriage ended in separation at the conclusion of Miss Mitchell's novel, will be reunited in the sequel. 
Clarke said he has not dis­cussed the plot with the agency, although the committee and the surviving members of the 
Mitchell family, Stephens Mitchell's two sons, will review proposed plots before publica­tion. He said no title has been chosen. 
More than 25 million copies of "Gone With the Wind" have been published in 27languages, making it one of the best-known works in American fiction. The Civil War saga won a Pulitzer Prize for Miss Mitchell in 1937. 
Miss Mitchell rejected sug­gestions that she write a se­quel. Many others have at­tempted to do so, but "they were unauthorized and were not allowed," Clarke said. 
Shortly before Stephens Mitchell's death, he began ale­gal battle with MGM, dis­tributor of the 1939 David Selznick film, over rights to a film sequel. Although he died before the case was decided, a federal court ruled in 1984 that the family held sole rights to any sequel, and the ruling was upheld on appeal. 

Let's throw pots 
The talented hands of Marianne Herb, Mike O'Malley and Sheila Sloan mold wet clay into new forms as the tables roll. 
M 
"It's absolute fantasy," said

ISSIDg 

one militia official, who also 
spoke on condition of continuedfrom page 1 anonymity.Also Thursday, police and Americans, are missing and military officials in Beirut presumed kidnapped in renewed their denial of any Lebanon. Many are believed to U.S. military action anywhere be held by Shiite Moslem cap-in Lebanon, following rumors tors. that U.S. marines were landing The taxi drivers said that to attack Shiite guerrillas. before Waite's disappearance, "We have had no report of they had frequently seen him any such attack anywhere in walking on the beach or travel-Lebanon, yet," a police official ing in a motorcade. said. He spoke on condition of anonymity. "I haven't the slightest doubt The rumors were sparked by 
about his identity. I know him the presence of a flotilla of U.S. and I saw him this afternoon," warships off Lebanon. Some one driver said. Lebanese politicians and news 
There have been a spate of media said the warships were conflicting reports about ordered into the area to put Waite. pressure on groups holding 
In West Germany, the mass-foreign hostages. Two of those circulation newspaper Bild groups have threatened to kill quoted unidentified "Beirut se-their captives in response to an curity circles" as saying Waite attack. was shot and critically In Washington, sources wounded after he tried to es-speaking on condition of cape from captivity in anonymity said no attack on Lebanon. The newspaper, in a Lebanon was planned. report prepared for its Friday The Reagan administration editions, did not say when the annQJ.Inced the aircraft carrier alleged shooting occurred or USS Kennedy would begin a provide other details. port call in Israel on Friday, 
Shiite and Druse militia offi-and that four of the Kennedy's cials in Beirut scoffed at the escort warships had been or-newspaper report. dered to sail for home. 
The spokesman refused to say which countries objected to the Rome meeting or to give their reasons. 
But another U.S. official, with support from Britain and West Germany, demanded anonymity, said France, and was reluctant to be drawn into a discussion of U.S. military op­tions to combat terrorism in Lebanon. 
While military action was not on the agenda, the official said, 
Charges in Jacksonville in­clude conspiracy to import cocaine, importing cocaine, possession with intent to dis­
• tribute the drug and racketeer­ing. The counts say that between 1978 and 1980, Lehder and his associates conspired to import numerous 250-to 500­kilogram shipments of Colom­bian cocaine into the United States through Norman's Cay in the Bahamas. 
In Washington this Thursday, John Lawn, admin­istrator of the Drug Enforce­ment Administration, praised the courage of Colombian Pres­ident Virgilio Barco in arrest­ing Lehder. 
"presumably, any discussion of terrorism would touch on that." 
L. Paul Bremer, who heads the State Department's coun­terterrorism office, was to lead the U.S. delegation. The meeting was to be the first major test of allied resolve since the seven industrialized democracies agreed, at U.S. behest last May at the Tokyo economic summit, to take a 
firm and coordinated stance against terrorism. 
Much of the government's in­formation about the cartel came from informant Barry Seal, a former drug smuggler himself who infiltrated the or­ganization. He was killed Feb. 19 in Baton Rouge, La. 
Three Colombians, accused of acting on a $500,000 contract put out by leaders of the cartel, are awaiting trial in Louisiana in Seal's slaying. 
Lehder was captured Wed­nesday in a northwestern Colombia mansion, one of doz­ens allegedly maintained by drug traffickers in an area near Medellin. He was flown to Tampa early Thursday. 

The Observer Friday, February 6,1987-page 5 

Mary Beth Whitehead, surrogate mother of 10-Stern, the natural father, will gain custody of month-old Baby M, attends the second phase of the baby. the trial to determine whether she or William 

Bowen declines to deny PP funds because of abortion 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Health and Human Services Secretary Otis Bowen declined Thursday to reinstate a subordinate's or­der denying federal funds to Planned Parenthood family planning programs because the organization also operates abortion clinics. 
The issue generated a fires­torm of outrage from anti­abortion activists in and out of Congress last month when the subordinate, Jo Ann Gasper, was reprimanded for instruct­ing that the Planned Paren­thood money be stopped with­out clearing her action with department superiors. 
In a carefully worded letter Thursday to regional health ad­ministrators, Bowen said he shared "Mrs. Gasper's basic intention" to insure compli­ance with the law against federal money going to adv­ocate abortion. 
However, he pointedly did not lift an order by Robert Win­dom-the No.2 official at HHS 8 rescinding Mrs. Gasper's ac­tion against Planned Paren­thood. 
Although the matter of her reprimand was not raised in Bowen's letter, department sources who commented on condition of not being identified said the reprimand stands. 
At the time Windom res­cinded Mrs. Gasper's order and reprimanded her, his spokesman said the reprimand did not stem from the sub­stance of her memo but be­cause she acted without con­sulting superiors on what was bound to be a controversial matter. 
The issue was particularly touchy at HHS because the House-Senate conference com­mittee that crafted the bill ap­propriating money for the agency included in its report language barring HHS from making administrative changes in programs without consulting Congress. 
Mrs. Gasper, deputy assis­tant secretary for population affairs, is one of six deputies under Windom, the assistant HHS secretary for health. 
In his letter Thursday, Bowen quoted a portion from the 1970 family planning law that says no federal money is to be used "in programs where abortion is a method of family planning." 
In applying that law, he wrote, "We find that if any or­ganization includes abortion or abortion related activities in a family planning program, that program is not eligible for ... funding. However, other pro­grams of the organization ... not involving abortion or abortion-related activities might be eligible for various forms of federal assistance." 






·~~ ~?.~.uphol~~n~L~:~:! S~~~~~~~ith 
Mrs. 


Rfttaurant And Cocktail Lounge 
Aulhentlc Szechu.n •net HuMn TMte INDIANAPOLIS -A Gary man's murder convictions and 200-year sentence should stand, the Indiana Supreme Court ruled Thursday. 
Lunches startin1 at. ___ -__ '2.95 
The court unanimously rejected the appeal of Eddie

Dinners startin& at. _______'4.25 Joe Brown, 31, who was con­lar open 7 day• a weell victed of the 1983 murders of 
.....l'hlln.: tt:30 .....to,... 
Betty Strickland, 32, and her

Fri.-Sit.: 11 :311 LM.-11 II-& S....&Jielhlllyl 11:31JL•.·I0!1-& 
~~»<Q><b">~~~~~ 
Associated Press 


NEW YORK -How does David Letterman pick through highlights of 814 shows in prep­aration for his fifth anniver­sary special this Saturday? 
"We look at it and look at it and none of it looks funny and none of it looks entertaining, so the last one out of the room at night gets to pick what goes on the show," he said. "It's just insane." 


5. Strickland and became jealous 
Brown was also convicted of after she dated another man, arson after he beat Mrs. Strick-according to the court record. land, broke the boys' necks and The court dismissed Brown's then set fire to the bodies and objections to admission into the Strickland house, accor-evidence at his trial of a con-ding to the court record. fession and photographs of the 
victims's bodies. 
He was sentenced to.consecu-The panel also rejected tive 60-year terms for the mur-Brown's contention that the ders and 20 years for his arson evidence was insufficient to conviction. convict him. \ 


Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272·7376 South Bend,130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 
'Late Night' star aids abused chlldren 
Mter five years, "Late Night with David Letterman" is get­ting its best ratings ever. But Letterman, 39, said that pon­dering the longevity of the "Today" show "makes you feel pretty silly." 
"They just celebrated their 35th anniversary, and we're just up to five," he said. "You know, who are we kidding here?" 
Letterman's contract with NBC was up Sunday, and he stirred speculation with a high-
Mandatory Meeting! 
ALL OBSERVER NETWORK HALL REPRESENTATIVES: 

I 
Tuesday,Feb.10 
7:00pm 
3rd LaFortune 
At the Observer 
profile lunch with Fox:network owner Rupert Murdoch. But Letterman said in an interview in his NBC office that' he has ironed out contract details with NBC and is set to sign a three­year deal worth "a Iotta money, a Iotta money." 
He said he always figures that at the end of his latest con­tract, he'll bow out, but "then you think long and hard, 'Well, who really wants to pay me to do this?' And that's a pretty short list of people." 
Another side of Letterman was revealed in his native In­dianapolis, where the head of a home for abused and ne­glected children said the enter­tainer donated $43,000. 
Paul Browne, director of the Marion County Children's Guardian Home, said Wednes­day that Letterman's attorney, Ronald Elberger, came to the facility around-Christmas and asked Browne to put together a wish-list. 
"I gave him a list with a price tag, and he doubled the amount," Browne said. The do­nation will help fund counseling and extracurricular activities . 

King of Pizzazz 
Pianist Liberace, shown here at the age of 27 in this 1947 photo, died Wednesday at his home in Palm Springs, California. The stage style he 


Acid spill causes cloud, injures two 
~-~ -~-----~-----------------~ 
• 
The Observer Friday, February 6,1987-page 6 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~--------~----­
'Burger Queen' boycotts Burger King over coffee 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -A nitric acid leak at a westside plant released an orange vapor cloud over the area and injured two workers, firefighters said. 
The leak occurred at Indiana Liquid Transport Inc., near the Indianapolis International Air­port, at approximately 3:35 
Gem enthusiast unveils 1, 154-ct. star sapphire 
Associated Press 
PLANO, Texas-The world's largest star sapphire, an egg­shaped, 1,154-carat gem that took 67 hours to cut and polish, was unveiled Wednesday by the man who bought it for $10 and expects to sell it for mil­lions. 
The opaque pale lavender sapphire, named "The Star of America," was shown to reporters by owner Roy Whetstine of Kilgore. 
The stone has been appraised at $2.28 million, but dealers have said it could bring as much as $4 million to $6 million, said Shelley Katz, a spokesman for Whetstine. 
"It is the largest in the world," said gem cutter John Robinson, who spent 10 days cutting and polishing the gem in a suburban Dallas jewelry store. "Even after polishing, it is the largest star sapphire that I am aware of in the world today." 
The rough sapphire, the size of a baked potato at 1,905 carats, or 13.3 ounces, is the largest such rough stone that has ever been found, Whetstine said. Even after being cut to the size of a chicken egg and polished, it is larger than any rough sapphire previously found, he said. 
The world's second-largest star sapphire is the Star of Queensland, an opaque stone weighing more than 700 carats. Third-ranked is the transpar­ent Star of India, 500 carats cut weight. 
p.m. Thursday, according to the Wayne Township Fire De­partment. 
Dispatcher Maureen Morrow said two plant employees were transported to Wishard Memorial Hospital with minor burns to their faces. 
The  large  orange  cloud  
drifted  west  into  Hendricks  
County  and  had  dissipated  

enough by 4:30p.m. that it pre­sented no immediate danger, Ms. Morrow said. In a concen­trated form, the chemical could cause respiratory distress, she said. 
A spokesman for Indiana Liquid said the "slight blow" had been contained but could provide no other details imme­diately. 


Show NO or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 

18061 State Road 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 48837 (219) 277·2870 
Thcz C~ar Btonl< Tope 
SAB RECORD STORE $20/10 
[I~!Jl~[il~a[il~ ~~u u~~~ oo~~a" 
• 
More imports 

• 
More independents 

• 
More CD"s available. 

• 
Lower prices!!! 




Associated Press 
SALEM, Or. -Cloe Curry says she may never go back to her neighborhood. Burger King, even though its owner apologized after he banned her for lingering over her morning coffee. 
"My friends are the ones who started up a stink," said the 78­year-old woman. "Me, I'm not that kind of person. It's my dis­position. I've always been easy-going." 
Owner Bob Boss said he had banned her because of a policy of discouraging loitering, but now he's sorry he brought the whole thing up. 
"We've invited her back," he said. "If she comes or not is up to her." 
Mrs. Curry, a widow since 1950, said in a recent interview that she got into the habit of stopping at Burger King five years ago "to get out of the apartment a little while. I feel like I'm in jail if I don't go out." 
She said she doesn't like in­stant coffee and "I just hate to make one cup of coffee. It's a waste." 


Summer Employment 
Large resort on east entrance to Glacier National Park seeking student employees for 1987 season including waiters, waitresses, front desk, bar help, sales clerks, kitchen help, service stations and maintenance. 
A representative will be interviewing Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, Feb. 23, 24, and 25. from Bam to Spm in the Career and Placement Service office. Please sign up for appointment on February 9 and 10. 

Now ODiy at Godfather's Pizza 

Get Twice As Much For Your Dough! Ask For ~~THE BIG V'' 
Two Special Pizzas for One Special Price Only '12.99 
. Now you can stretch your dou~ even farther! Get 2 extra large 15" Godfath­er's Pizzas for only 812.99 (plua·tu). One Su~r Pepperoni and One Four Topper 
(Beef. Pepperoni. Onion, Green Pepper). No coupon 
nece881ll')'. 
Just Ask for ~~THE BIG V'' 
(V I.e for Value) 
Sorry, no eubedtudoJU Off'er trood on earry-out or delivery 









\1ie\Y~_O_i_D_t____________~,F~riday~,Feb~ruary~6,198~7-pa~ge7 
Specific policies hidden in president's address 
President Reagan has completed his sixth State of the Union address. The media now begin their annual debates on the meaning of every word uttered by the Great Commmunicator, and the Democrats have already started to barage the President with their reac­tions. And since I missed Moonlighting, I thought I might try to make some sense out of what has just happened. 
Tony Lang 
guest column 

To begin with, the President has once again done what he does best; make everything seem in perfect order. After hearing about Ben Franklin, John Ken­nedy, and even Nellie Reagan, I think I can sleep a little better tonight. Any man who can stand in front of an entire nation and gloss over the worst disaster in his administration in only two paragraphs certainly has things under control. But even as I write these com­ments, the President's approval rating is probably going up a few points. In a democracy like ours, the approval of the people does indeed reflect some sort of merit. No matter what I or any other critic says, Ronald Reagan has res­tored a confidence in our country un­paralleled in my lifetime. This is cer­tainly an accomplishment. 
However that popularity may be wearing a bit thin. It seemed that at every pause in the speech, half the Congress would stand up and applaud. The media later determined that the President was interrupted 36 times. A few ovations would have been enough to convince us that the President had Congress on his side... But soon it be­came pathetically clear that the few Republicans clapping were vainly trying to sum up some sort of approval for their savior. Their partisan ap­plause probably did more to hurt Reagan's image than to help it. 
The speech itself was difficult to in­terpret. Understanding the President's words (at one point he even said he was addressing his comments to the children in the audience, at which point I was especially attentive) was not nearly as difficult as understanding his meaning. 
If the State of the Union represents a report card of our progress, than this past year rated an A. But I did not hear of any new policies that Reagan will enact or any old ones for that matter. He often mentioned "legislation that I will propose in the next few weeks," but no concrete examples ever came up. I now know that the President wants to protect our nation, keep drugs out of our schools, and put people back to work. But that is like a priest going to the pulpit on Sunday and saying that God exists. Either the President does not think that the American public is smart enough to understand the details of his policies, or he cannot remember them himself. Both of these theories make me nervous. 
At first I was glad when the President brought up the Iran controversy. Fi­nally this mess will be cleared up. But once again I was somewhat confused. Although the President did take full re­sponsibility for the affair, he never really did apologize. The biggest round of applause came when Reagan asked what was wrong with trying to free hostages. Maybe he forgot his strong 
denial of any American attempts to negotiate with terrorists. I guess presi­dents are allowed to reverse their policies like that. 
I now want to sum up the President's statements, except I really have noth­ing to sum up. I could end with stirring quotes about freedom and making ex­cellence ring. They ceitainly worked for Reagan. Maybe the only conclusion is that there is no conclusion to this speech. I sure will be glad when Moon­lighting airs next week. It is a lot easier to understand. 
Tony Lang is in the Freshman Year of Studies. 

Daily life of graduate changes with experience 
Today was very typical of many of the days I have spent thus far in Benin. 
I awoke at 7a.m. to the sounds of crowing roosters and bleating goats, Abomey Calavi was already busy at work. But for me an hour's more worth of sleep sounded more appealing so I buried my head in my pillow for a few extra minutes of rest. 
Jerry Pohlen 
guest column 

This morning I was to travel with a rural extention agent to Lokpo, a town built on the delta of the Oueme river as it empties into Lake Nokoue. Half an hour by motorcycle brought us within several hundred yards of the vil­lage, the last stretch had to be by pirogue, or dug-out canoe. 
Lokpo is built upon an island, and be­cause trees are scarce most of their firewood must be purchased from neighboring town and transported. What we were there to do was to train government agricultural workers how to teach villagers to build fuel-efficient stoves. The concept is simple. In fact, it is virtually identical to the traditional method of cooking. Families here cook on pots placed on three rocks over an open fire. The new stove is simply piling 
. 


p.£'R£; ...WITH JUSTTIA/0 
MINI./7"5t£FTIN 
GO AHEAD,

BACK, /lAY 32OF THe YOU't?50N
ANil 
THe AIR(
ORAL R08EI<T5j RElJJING 

/JE3ATH /QAT[}{ I

• CALliS... \ 
\ 
1\ 

mud around rocks which will concen­trate the heat on what is being cooked. This alone can save the user almost half the firewood they would normally have to purchase. 
When we arrived we learned that the people who were to be there had not been properly informed by their higher­ups, and that it was not possible to do it today. I have learned that it is best to wait these things out, and after half an hour in which they argued amongst themselves they agreed they could, however much it seemed to be outside normal channels. One of the problems inherited from French colonization is a crippling obsession with bureaucracy. 
The session lasted about an hour and was productive. For cultural protocol I was invited to have a beer with the mayor in which all proper salutations and best wishes were extended. They saw us off down at the river, and it was back home for the noontime siesta. 
During the three hours following mid­day it is generally not a good idea to do any work in the equatorial sun. I wrote a letter, listened to the BBC for news, and talked with the neighbor kids who. were home from school for lunch. 
For the afternoon I went to Cotonou to talk with a welder who builds metal wood-but:ning stoves about his sale of 
I 

Ihe ObserYer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Unlversltv of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
the new design we had talked of earlier. In Cotonou people are more mobile and a portable stove is very popular. He said he could make them with a satis­factory profit if he could raise the price 100 francs. We discussed it and agreed that the new price was fine if he were also able to put up a sign promoting the stove to help boost sales. 
Dinner I had at a local street vendor; rice !lnd beans, and some vegetable gumbo. In Benin it is definitely less ex­pensive to "eat out" than to cook it yourself. This meal ran me 125 francs, about 35 cents. After eating I studied French and Fon, the local language, with Richard, a neighbor and senior at 

Trudeau 

GO/l'S JUSTIIJORJ<IN'A M&6A­

A91N, "He'S GOT &VeNT, TO 6I3T H19 PeDPU3 
TH/3 WHO/£ /A/0/?tl) INVOLVelJ IN A 600/l CAIJSe! 
IN Hlf> HANTJS"? IT'S UK& A COM!JINATION OF 7HE "W& AI?&THE IA/Of<LilNANl? 
I
I TH&"HANlJS"PROJECTS. 

On the Viewpoint pages your opinions "add up" 
Over 500 letters t6 the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in VieWPOint. Join 
General Board 

Editor-In-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Msnsging Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News EditOr ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Ssint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski 
the local high school. Thankfully, he is very tolerant of my beginner's French. Every other day the lesson is in English for him. 
And finally, I retreated to the safe haven of my bedroom beneath my mosquito netting where I sit now to write this letter. I can hear drums from a celebration not too far off, either a marriage, a death, a birth, or an an­niversary of a death. And I just can't help but be reminded: this is the real 
thing. 

Jerry Pohlen is a 1986 Notre Dame graduate and a member of the Peace Corps. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Quote of the day 
"Courage is being scared to death -and saddling up anyway." 
John Wayne 

Business Msnsger ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertslng Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke Production Manager ........................... Marl< Mclaughlin OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark WelmhOit 
Founded November 3! 1818 
-
--~------------~---~~­
The Observer Friday, February 6,1987-page 8 



Sports Briefs 
SAB Broomball Pairings for the tournment beginning Monday are as follows: 
SAB Broomball Tournament 
Monday•a Games 
Stepan Field 1 
Turtle Avengers vs. Substances, 4:00 
... Fan Club vs. lce-Ooggers, 4:30 
The 814 ... vs. Four Cheeks and Two Cracks, 5:00 
The Fighting Hardbodies vs. Revenge of the Euro ... , 5:30 
Stepan Field 2 
Bud Suckers vs. Zeppelin Reunion, 4:00 
Comemierdas vs. Mother Theresa ..., 4:30 
The House vs. Ack, 5:00 
House Guests vs. Soixante ... , 5:30 
Stepan Field 3 
Tis A Pity vs. The He-Man Women Hater, 4:00 
Let's Get Wide vs. The Guests That Would Never Leave, 4:30 
Subhumans vs. Assassins, 5:00 
Brigham Young & The Swinger vs. Drinkers From Hell, 5:30 
Teams are requested to arrive 10 minutes before scheduled starting time. Teams not listed have byes. Watch for fur­ther pairings. Any questions should be directed to Mike or Eric at 283-1155 or 239-7757. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will have a scrimmage against Saint Mary's tonight at Turners. Tournament players should meet at the Library Circle at 7:45p.m. and should wear dark jerseys.' Also, anyone in­terested in playing indoor soccer should meet at Gym 1 of the ACC every Wednesday night. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The ND judo club has new practice times for the rest of the semester. The club will meet Wednesdays, 7:30 to 9:30p.m. and Sundays, 4 to 6 p.m. at room 219 Rockne. Also, the club will not hold practice this Sunday because of the tournament. For more information contact Rob (232­6917) or Sara (3427). -The Observer 
A cross-country ski race sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 15 at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Sign-ups run through tomorrow in the SAB office, second floor of LaFortune. Rentals are available. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
Smith returns 
Associated Press 

RALEIGH, N.C. Kenny Smith, who underwent knee surgery last Saturday, and Joe Wolf scored 21 points each as No. 3 North Carolina raced to a 96-79 victory over North Carolina State in an Atlantic Coast Conference basketball game Thursday night. 
Smith, who underwent arthroscopic surgery on his left knee and was to reportedly miss two weeks, shared his team's first 14 points with freshman J.R. Reid, who added 16 points for the Tar Heels, 19-2 overall and unbeaten in eight conference games. 
T1le Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsemtl' Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Ali classifieds must be prepaid, either In person or by maiL The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES PRO-TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. 277-5833 WOROPROCESSING 277-8131 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 PREGNANT? Happy, loving, financially secure couple eager to adopt infant. Con­fidential, legal. Expenses pd. Call Meg collect 513-271-7526. Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277­7406  LOST: MY MIND IF WHOEVER FOUND MY STUDENT ID AND OTHER LIFE NECESSITIES MONDAY NIGHT (FEB. 2) DOES NOT RETURN THEM. THEY WERE LOST BETWEEN THE E-F LOBBY OF NORTH DINING HALL AND PW,AND HELD IN HALF OF A GREEN ID CASE. IF YOU FOUND THEM, PLEASE RETURN THEM TO NORTH DINING HALL OR CALL LESLIE LAC­HAPELLE AT £4351. THANKS! FOUND: Winter jacket at ACC section 115 after NO-Carolina game. Call Steve at 283-1637 to describe and claim. FOUND: One gold earing with blue stripes in Morrissey Hall early Saturday morning. Call £3470 to claim. FOR RENT  I NEED 2 DUKE TIX (EITHER G.A. OR STU.) SISTERS ARE COMING OUT FOR THE WEEKEND!! CALL TOM AT X-4605 WANTED: Duke GA's & STU TIX, ext 2994 Loretta NEED 2 OR 4 DUKE GA'S CALL KEVIN 2165 I NEED 2 DUKE GA'S: PAUL 2364 Druid needs Duke GAe Andy 1650 4 SENIORS ROADTRIPPING TO KANSAS. NEED TIX. CALL 4334 OR 1499. NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. Need 2 Duke GA's. Please Call Mickey at 2742.  APPLICATIONS FOR SAB POSITIONS available on 2nd floor Lafortune applications dua Feb. 13; tor mora In­to., atop by SAB office RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS Very, very cheap. Best deal in town. If Roy Orbison can wear 'em, so can you. Call Tim at £1801. SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH Round trip transportation & 7 nights accomodallona $200. U-Drlva-11 & uven nights accomodatlona $,.49. Contact Campue Rep. at 283-4003, or atop by 324 Farley lor mora Informa­tion. I need a ride to Purdue on 2'13-15 Greg 2727  SURPR!St;:l HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BABES II! WELL YOU'RE FINALLY 21 (almost), YOU'VE HAD A LOT OF illegal FUN ALREADY, I HOPE YOU HAVE AS MUCH legal FUN IN THE FUTURE! BUT, WATCH OUT FOR DUNC'S COM­FORTER AND MY LEG !II THANX FOR EVERYTHING LOVE, KRW SURPRISE! SURPRISE! PICK UP YOUR OFF-CAMPUS NEWSLETTER TODAY! THEY'RE ON THE OBUD DESK IN THE FIRST FLOOR OF LaFORTUNE. You were in lane 1 late Tues. night. Who are you? -The Guard Niii:Liii:···:raoo:--·iAoose·:···.s--·iiooiii SAY: DON'T FORGET £209 AT 9:00 IN AMERICA'S ONLY FIRE-BREWED HALL... DON'T FIGHT IT, ITS BIGGER THAN ALL OF USI  TERRY AND KENt Congrats on getting into St. Eds. LOOK OUT NORTH QUAD-Here come two more ICHTHUSIANSII Love ya, Maria Kathy Hwang, we hope your 19th b-day is better than the 18 previous ones. Have a great one-your 6-A section. ............................ HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAT FRAVEL HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND!! LOVE, STAYPUFT, SUE, MONICA, AND THERESA P.S. MOM AND DAD SEND THEIR BEST! MARGA,dear, Penguin fricassee? I think not. Teddy Troufles? dismemberment can be fun! think about it LUV,gp  
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NOEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL FALL SEMESTER 6838889MRS. COKER, 233-7009. .............................................................~.. I WANTED LOST/FOUND I ~-S-P-RIN_G_B_RE_A_KJ-A-MA-IC_A___J -Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$FOUND: B-Ball Tlx after Marquene game -near GrottO'S! Mary's Lake call 2885 to 1-800·237-2061 identify and claim Need ride to IU Bloominglon or vacinltyLOST: BLACK COOPER HOCKEY GLOVE AT ACC ON THURSDAY NIGHT Feb 13, returning Feb 15. Will pay for gas. Call Adam at 4009.BEFORE ALUMNI-SORIN GAME.  2 Ilk's Beach Boys & J.Jett. 1st row $20 each £1587 I DESPERATELY NEED TWO DUKE GAs PARENTS ARE COMING FROM CALI­FORNIA BIG MONEY PLEASE CALL JOHN x1158 $$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEED DUKE TIX FRIENDS COMING FROM FAR AWAY PLACES CALL X4045 IIIII UP TO 6 DUKE GA-STEPHX3944  DO ME againll DOME shirts are backll Watch for more info ..... .....................................................,.......... STUDENT STEALS KEG Part5ol5 ! \ 1The police say their lead came from an ,'ad In last Monday's Observer. The ad \read "Anne-Marie you're a lush. No I'm luscious." lifter inquires were made the evidence began to point towards Anne­Marie X. The trial date is set for sometime next week. At that time the suspect's full name will be released. -The editors would like to state that all namas used In the above and previous articles are flctlous(?) and any relationship to anyone living or dead Is purely coincidental.  SMOKE FROM NOWHERE: NO'S ONLY HEAVY METAL band (sorry Marauder), at THEODORE'S on Monday, February 9th. BE THERE! SMOKE FROM NOWHERE: Crisp, Clean, HEAVY METAL rock and roll. THEODORE'S, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9TH! THE YELLOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight daily Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free til March 1. 272-4453  ALRIGHT ALREADY, CHIEF! GET YOUR FOOT OUT OF OUR BACKS! We just wanted to wish you a HAPPY BIRTHDAY and let you know that we're coming to your party Friday (so you'll have another chance to kick us out) ........ Jane & Kristin. YOU KNOW HIM, YOU LOVE HIM. YOU LAUGHED AND CRIED WITH HIM IN "ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST". NOW'S YOUR CHANCE TO THANK GEORGE "CHIEF" TRAVERS FOR THE MEMORIES HE'S GIVEN US ALL. CALL HIM TODAY AT 1774 OR STOP BY 1002 GRACE AND WISH HIM A HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAYIIt  
PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 287-6622. REWARD OFFERED. LOST:On Feb. 2,sllver necklace wtross,rlng and charm.Probably at the ACC track.lf found please call Tim at 3450. FOUND! CASSETTES: 8 or 10 music tapes In a "Tupperware" box along with a watch. Call Steve Weldy or Kay at UNITED LIMO 674-6993. Must identify most of cassenes and watch brand. (These items were found at Bus Shelter at Christmas) LOST: Navy Blue Cordouroy Notre Dame Hockey hat in hockey rink stands Thursday, '1129 after midnight interhall  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND AND WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS ' CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381­4224 Muat Buyl Needed to buy: a couch. Must be cheap and 'nappable' Call 2053 I NEED A RIDE TO CINCINNATI ON FEB. 12 OR 13. MARTY 2937 OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, Asia. ALl fields. $900-2000  I NEED GA'S FOR THE DUKE GAME. MARTY 2937 HELP! My grandparents are coming out for the DUKE GAME and I need 3 GA'sl PLEASE call x1341 or x1271 URGENT Need 2 GAs for DUKE game Call Jim 277·3780 NEED 3 DUKE GA'S OR STUD TIX. CALL NOW, IF NOT SOONER x2113 $$$ I Need 2 Duke GA's, Desperately. Col­leen 233-9806. Need GA tlx for Duke game.Big Bucks. Call 284-4366; 239-6734; or 283-3854.  HUMAN LEAGUEIII HUMAN LEAGUEIII HUMAN LEAGUE IS COMING! TO THE RIVIERA NIGHT CLUB-­CHICAGO FEB. 15 BUS PROVIDED TO CHICAGO--FREE Ill Debbie B. You'll always be my BEST FRIEND. I love you. Love, Ween SENIORS SENIORS Last chance to be involved. Help out with Senior Month ... tha best month of your young aduR lives.lnterented persons should attend a meeting Wed,Feb 11 ,9:00,Senior Bar.Call Lea(3719) or Gordo(1666) If you  ATIENTION OFF-CAMPUS STU· DENTS PARTY AT LEE'S RIBS TONIGHTit MUSIC BY "PAR 3" FREE FREE FREE FREEIIII KATH, WHAT IS THIS PLACE COMING TO? THE GEEK FACTOR PREVALES. ITS A SCARY THOUGHT. A. TO THE GIRL IN THE PURPLE PARIS SWEATER THAT I SAW STRAPPED TO A SHOPPING CART AT K·MART YESTERDAY DURING THE BLUE LIGHT SPECIAL. YOU SEEM TO HAVE BEEN FINDING A LOT OF BARGAINS. WOULD YOU LIKE A JOB?  Rob, Thanks for the last-minute re­designing! Your Tuesday ANE FOUND: Orie gold earing with blue stripes in Morrissey Hall early Saturday morning. Call £3470 to claim. Rob, Thanks for tha last-minute re­designing! Your Tuesday ANE DO YOU PICK UP BEAUTIFUL FEMALE HITCHHIKERS? Well I need a ride to Chicago on Feb. 13 in the morning or early afternoon. Call Rachaet at 284-5181  
game. Please call Tony at x4385 ij found.  mo.Sightseeing.Free info.Write IJC, PO  are unable to make ij,  THANK YOU ST.JUDE  
LOST: Key on NO keyring; student 10, MD driver's license, cash, and photos of Mom and Dad. I'm locked out of my house. May have been lost in car of nice  BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 Want to buy a MACINTOSH. Call Erin 272-2357.  PLEASE, sell me a DUKE GA 1!1 lwillpay$! Call Regis at x1059  JOSEPH IS A DEITY YES, JOSEPH CHURA IS INDEED THE MALE VIXEN OF THE CENTURY.  ..... ATIENTION ..... JOIN THE COOL D FAN CLUB! MUST BE COOL, MUST WALK WITH A STRUT, AND MUST USE PHRASES  SMED-DOG AND LIZ-DOG You Blood-Sucking Freaks -Peter  
guy who gave me a ride to campus....Call  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ONE OF OUR  LIKE "YO e "WHASUP" IN EVERY SEN­ 
Beth: 287-3953 Leave a message if I'm not there, PLEASE!  FOR SALE  SPECIAL DAUGHTERS AND SISTER, DENISE BOYCHUK, ON HER 20TH BIRTHDAY. HEALTH, HAPPINESS  TENCE. SO CALL ME COOL D AT 1221. CHECK ME OUT AT THE NEXT GAMEl  CIRCUS LUNCH IS COMING Ill  
LOST-In Theodore's Fri 11.30. FOOT­ AND MUCII LOVE.  TONIGHT II Party with THE BOTIOM  
BALL JACKET , blue W' white sleeves.  AIRLINE  TIX:  OHARE-LAX  13MAR­ MOM, DAD AND KAY  LINE at Theodore's! Dance your face off  
"PELHAM VARSITY" on beck. No ques­tions. Call Scizzy 3744  22MAR MUST SELL-$280 OR BEST OF­FER BY 18FEB. CALL LIZ EHRET 4­ PERSONALS  from 10:30 until closing ...wlth THE BOT­TOM LINE/I  CIRCUS LUNCH IS COMING Ill  
5498 ANYTIME  DESTINATION INDYII  
LOST: DESIGN OF MACHINE ELE­MENTS a Lt. Gray ME book and 3 spiral notebooks on Feb. 2, noon, North Dining  FOR SALE: '86 Bertone x19 convertible. Alpine Stereo. Pirelli tires. 4500 miles.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE  Two weeks ago It was Wheel of Fortune, Family Feud, and S and B. Wait until you  Have Bill McCarthy parties become ex­tinct? The girls from P.E. miss these won­derous events!  CIRCUS  LUNCH IS SOON,  COMING  
Hall. If found call Marc x2056.  $9900. Call 255-2130.  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  see what we have in store for after Lyons  TO A DINING HALL NEAR YOU Ill  
LOST: Keys lost at the North Carolina  ······~···················································· ..··· ROUNDTRIP AIRFARE: SB­ AVOID THE  LAST  MINUTE  RUSH  •  formal.  The  Basement Pseudo-roommates  Hey guys, ij is time for another seance in 848 P.E. as "the date" rolls around.  
game. 5 large keys and 1 small key. If found PLEASE call 2890.  Tampa,3'14-3-22.$200.Call Gordo, 1666.  STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENnNE'S DAY  C'mon s'fun, we done it before! Maybe an education session too?  SHAWN SEX-DOG SEXTON  
Famous Name, High Style Timepieces  CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME.  The Observer is looking for BAR and  
FOUND: A detex at Career and Place­ wt> high cost. Warranties. Write FATHER  RESTAURANT  reviewers.  Reviewers  Sam  DoWell- RemeMber?  It's  been  
ment on Monday, Feb. 2. You can claim  TIME, P.O.Box 1005 So.Bend, IN 46224  Beautiful old costume jewelry,  reason­ are reimbursed for reviews. Contact Mary  awHile. Too long! Want a litTle repetition?  Three strikes and you're out, at the  
it by giving us the Identification numbers on it. Ask for it at the main desk.  for free info. INVESTMENT  OPPORTUNITY:  3  BR  ably priced. Middle row, first table at Thieves Market, 2309 E. Edison, SB, Sat & Sun., 10-6. 10 per cent oH with NO­ Jacoby at 239-5313 or 272·3833. THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPART- GueSs WhO? I need an SMC student to help me clean  ol' SMC-ballgame­ -the Amused  
LOST: Men's Class Ring. Initials inside  HOUSE  3  BLOCKS  FROM  CAMPUS  SMC ID.  MENT  my big old house on Thursday mornings  
-JPK '88-. Lost last Wednesday night be­tween bookstore and Senior Bar. Please  FOR SALE. RENOVATED, POSITIVE CASH FLOW FROM MONTH ONE.  Last Chance For Spring Break '871  All would-be MUCKRAKERS and HACK JOURNALISTS are invited to attend the  or Friday afternoons, $4. per hour, call 234-4498.  MIKE EVCES  
contact if you find It Phone-1222 and ask lor John. Thanks. LOST: Stud basketball tlx after N.C. game. If you found them, I can identify. Please call 2118 ANYTIME! Thanks. ii'E:w;.;,·iioiiii.ewA'iioii'i·,~~i-;;;v·a:t;~ii.ii~  CALL 239-5303 FOR INQUIRY. TICKETS Need Tickets Desperately to both the  South Padre Island, Daytona Beach, Steamboat Springs, Miami Beactv Fort Lauderdale, Mustang Island' Port Aransas, Galveston Island and Fort Wal­ton Beach. Call Sunchase Tours Central Spring Break Toll Free Hot Line Today for last minute information and reserva­tions 1-800-321-5911 I  INVESTIGATIVE REPORTERS AND EDITORS CONFERENCE to be held this year at the University of Missouri at Co­lumbia, a bastion of American journalism excellence. All interested News Depart­ment reportolrs and editors are invited to an informational meeting this Sunday at 7:15 at The Observer. Questions, ask for  Re<>Brown I quess you don't have anymore problems, because you never come over . We are still waiting, "for when we least expect it." GRACE HALL DRAIN HEADS REVOL Ttl DRAIN BASH II IS HERE!! DEATH TO SYRsl  Why a rose? you might ask; a long story, quite a task. It was sent on a hunch, and a wrong one at that . See, we thought that we had the puzzle down pat. It's not that I'm not interested, see  
just inside Gate 10 before the Carolina  North Carolina end Duke baokatball  Tripp Baltz or Mark Pankowski.  
Gamel! Call Dan £11771 Please. ..................~.:...............···················.... . Whoever look a royal blue Gerry ski jacket at Theodore's last Friday could you please call me ar return It, my 10 is in the pocket. Thanks.  gamae. Either atudant or GA'I. Call Eric at 272·9123. I have $, but do not have 2 DePaul GAs. Could you help me achieve equi­leeeebrium? Please call Bill x1460.  BENDIX WOODS Thure. Feb. 12 Sign-ups thru Friday In SAB offices tlx $5 (Incl. bue)  Hey Er, do you know who the chick is in the black dress? She's always wanted to get to know you !I Lucky youl  HUCK You light up my lite HAPPY 1st! The love that's always there­Brle  But why should you want to know little old me? So this is the end (or so I'll pretend) Who am I? A friend.  

-
The Observer Friday, February 6,1987 -page 9 

Freshman Markowitz tries to adjust as Irish face Falcons 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
Kevin Markowitz and the Notre Dame hockey team have had an awful lot in common this season. 
The freshman from St. Louis, Mo., and the team he plays for have had to adjust, many times, to bigger, more experi­enced opposition. 
They have both tried to es­tablish themselves with solid play -Markovitz trying to earn a spot on the first line and the 
0 

Notre Dame trying to earn the respect of its opponents. 
And both have shown that they have the potential to make their respective moves--soon. 
Markovitz and the Irish will be in Colorado Springs, Colo., this weekend to take on the Fal­cons of Air Force in a two-game series. 
Markovitz knew that the caliber of play would improve when he reached the college ranks, but he was surprised at how high he eventually had to jump from the skill level of his high school conference. 
"It's a lot different than what I had expected," said Markovitz, who has a goal and 13 assists while playing in all 20 games for the Irish this season. "The guys here are much faster, stronger, and quicker--their edge puts me at a disadvantage." 
Head Coach Lefty Smith also sees a need for Markovitz to get accustomed to college play, but still realizes that he has a real prospect on his hands. 
"Kevin's made a fine transi­tion to college hockey consid­ering his high school back­ground," said Smith. "The St. Louis area really isn't known for its high school hockey pro­grams, but Kevin has been able to adjust relatively smoothly. 

"He's got to get used to the strength and the pace of the game a little more, but he handles the puck quite well and is an excellent skater. He'll be a good one." 
Markovitz couldn't be hap­pier with the present situation 
and looks anxiously toward fu­
ture teams. 
"The guys (on the team) 
have been great," said the 6-0, 
185-pound defenseman. 
"They're always trying to help 
me out and they've become my 
close friends. And Lefty's been 
great both on and off the ice. 
Three of Notre Dame's more prolific scorers this year--Tom Mooney, Mike McNeill, and Roy Bemiss are injured and are questionable for the series with the Falcons. 

Wrestlers fall to experienced Michigan State, 25-17 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Irish head wrestling coach Fran McCann says he likes comparing Notre Dame's pro­gram to established wrestling schools like Michigan State. In that case, last night's dual meet against the Spartans showed how far the Irish have come in the last few years, and how much they still have to ac­complish. 
Michigan State defeated Notre Dame, 25-17, last night at the ACC Pit, after trailing, 17-8 with three matches left in the meet to drop the Irish record to 1-7. The Spartans gar­nered 17 points on a superior decision, a Notre Dame forfeit, and a pin to give Michigan State the victory. Last year, the Spartans beat the Irish, 25-12. 
"We're progressing. A couple of years ago, Notre Dame wouldn't even think of scheduling Michigan State; now we're competitive with them. Next year, it's our turn," said McCann. "We'll get bet­ter. We'll have some outstand­ing recruits next year ; I'm sure of that." 
Notre Dame's strategy for last night's meet shows the ex­act problem with the Irish this year-a lack of depth and bal­ance throughout the lineup. The Irish won four of the first five matches, but it still could not compensate for Michigan State's superiority in the last five weight categories. 

"I felt we had to win the first five matches and get a big deci­sion to win," said McCann. "To beat teams like that, whe have to have a good ten-man lineup. We don't have that, so it's hard." 
The meet did have its share of Notre Dame highlights, in­cluding wins by 118-pound freshman Andy Radenbaugh, 134-pound sophomore Jerry Durso, 142-pound sophomore Pat Boyd, 150-pound junior Ron Wisniewski, and 167-pound sophomore Chris Geneser 

Notre Dame goes right back to the ACC Pit on Sunday af­ternoon at 2 p.m. for a dual meet with defending Mid­American Conference cham­pions Central Michigan. 
"They beat us badly last year, and they have most of their guys back. Their 118 and 126 people will be good, and at 167 and the upper weights, they're really good," said McCann. 

Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
A women's softball clinic for players and coaches will be held Saturday, Feb. 14 at An­gela Athletic Facility. Registration will run from 7:30 to 8: 30 the day of the clinic. Coaches from various colleges, including Northwestern's Dr. Sharon Drysdale, will be fea­tured. Fees are $25 per coach and $10 per student. For more information call 284-5448. -The Observer 
The ND women's varsity cross-country team will have a mandatory meeting today at 
5:30 p.m. at room 127 of the ACC. -The Observer 
Word Processing 
by 

Shirley Gillis 68.3-6676 
Call anytime after 6pm 
The Golden Child (R) Dolby 1 :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:50 ''The Mission (PG) 1:45, 4:20. 7:00, 9:30 Platoon (R) Dolby 1:00, 3:15, 5:30, 7:45, 10:00 ("No passes. no bargain matinees) MATINEES SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 
-
The Observer Friday, February 6,1987 -page 10 


Mooch, Garrison come out to play as walk-ons add depth to Irish 
fact," said DiStanislao. "It was with the losses and eveything
By BRIAN O'GARA 

very heartening to see that and they've needed to hearSports Writer 
even though we had the prob­that.'' Down and Out in South Bend. 
lems that we had, here were Mouch got her start shooting It's a scary thought, which in two kids who came forward and jumpers at the tender age of 
mid-January was getting closer said, 'I want to play. I want to five, when her brother Tommy, to a reality with each loss for 
be a part of it.' " now 23, had her shooting a vol­the women's basketball team "It was real spontaneous," leyball before she was strong and Head Coach Mary DiS­said Mouch, a 5-6 guard. "It enough to hold a basketball. 
tanislao. 

was something that I've She came to Notre Dame in the Mter winning the North Star wanted to do. I came back from fall of 1985 ready to walk-on. Conference with a 23-8 record vacation and read that a couple But college academics 
girls had quit. When I first went changed her mind.
in 1985-86, the Irish struggled 
through the beginning of this to her (DiStanislao's) office, I When the Irish began having season and entered the second thought I'd just go out to prac­troubles, however, Mouch, a 5-6 semester with more losses than tice with the team." high-school all-state selection their 3-8 record indicated. With DiStanislao got Mouch and from Mineral Wells, TX, saw the departure of a captain and Garrison on the eligibility the opportunity to fulfill her 
two other promising players, rosters and the duo played two goal of playing Notre Dame the ten remaining team mem­minutes that evening against basketball and help the ailing bers were clinging to dwindling Cleveland State. DiStanislao team. So did Garrison. confidence and in dire need of notes that their contributions "Kim was working in the 
a boost in spirits. far exceed their limited training room and was aware 
This boost came in the form playing time. of our manpower situation and of sophomore walk-ons Ellen "They're good athletes who came out," says DiStanislao of Mouch and Kim Garrison, who are smart, " said DiStanislao. the 6-foot Garrison, a native of joined the team on January 20 "They're catching on to a lot Mill Creek, WA. "She is quick 
and played their first game in in the system with really very defensively and does a good job a Notre Dame uniform that little playing time." getting the other .players ready night in an 85-68 victory over 
Mouch and Garrison have to play." 
Cleveland State. been vital to the Irish in team The Irish will need to be "They both came to me, on practices. Down to only ten ready to play on Saturday as successive days as a matter of players before the new ar­they face the University of 
rivals, the team struggled Miami (Fla.) in a 1 p.m. game. through practice with limited DiStanislao expects the Hur­
Swim teams set for tough weekend 
manpower and thus limited op­ricanes to throw full-court portunites to prepare for their pressure at her squad through­
By KELLY TOWNSEND are looking to avenge last next home action they will see opponents. out the contest.year's two-point loss to Ball will be the Midwest Invita­
Sports Writer Since they joined the team, "Miami is a smaller, quicker 
State. This year's match-up tional February 26-28. 
Notre Dame has won three of team than we are," said DiS­The men's and women's looks to be just as close. Meanwhile, the men travel to five games, including their best tanislao. "They want to keepswim teams are home this Coach Tim Welsh sees it as Bradley University today, performance of the season last the game in their half of the weekend as the men take on one of the biggest challenges before returning home for their Saturday against Marquette. court. They'll score and they'll Kalamazoo and the women for the women. meet against Kalamazoo to­DiStanislao sees a relationship. throw their defense right up
face Ball State. "Both teams match up well," morrow. 
"Here are two kids who knew there and try to get a turnover. 
With high motivation and a said Coach Welsh. "Our depth The meet against Bradley 
about the struggle with the We're going to have to handle thirst for revenge, the women gives us no edge this time. will be yet another in the series record and everything else and that press." 
We'll have to earn every point of difficult teams the Irish have still came out to be a part of it. Notre Dame will also have to and be ready every time." had to face. As with the women, And the other kids have an op­handle the 'Canes point guard .
Although Ball State will have the men's desire to win is


Guard 

portunity to look at themselves Maria Rivera, who played ona slight advantage in the diving backed by revenge. Last year's and say, 'hey, it's not so bad.' the Puerto Rico national team
continuedfrom page 12 

competitions, junior Andrea meet at Rolfs came down to the " and who is touted as an All­Keith Harris (5.7) provides Bonny will be working to cut last swimmer of the last event. 
"I look at it as a real good America candidate. 
scoring from the bench. down that advantage. Andrea experience," says Mouch. "My "They'll run things to get the "If you take a look at Kansas, currently holds the one-meter Tomorrow, after a well­role is to work hard in practice ball into her hands. As a matter you're looking at a team whose diving record at Rolfs and for earned rest, the men face to make the others work hard of fact, she has the ball in her record is not an indication of the University. Kalamazoo. The meet will be and get better. And to say 'good hands 75% of the time," said how good they can be," said Coach Welsh gave the women the last home meet for the men job.' They've been really down DiStanislao. 
Phelps "When Cedric Hunter is a piece of advice yesterday this year, and the last tilme for playing well, that just creates after practice. the seven seniors on thE! team. many other opportunities for "You've got to pick a meet Tomorrow's meets begin at 2 
Kansas. You talk so much to swim out of your minds in. p.m. for the women and 5 p.m. about Danny Manning and This is it." for the men. Mter that, the what a great player he is, but This will be the last time the Irish will return to the road for I think Larry Brown has got his senior swimmers will compete their final dual meets of the team so flexible. Hunter is just in a dual meet at home. The tunring things on for them. 
"But Kansas certainly has one of the premier players in IllALUMNI the nation in Manning. He's 
SENIOR 
probably as agile and does as many things well as anyone you'll see at that size." 
As for his own squad, Phelps 








!CLUB
looks for this road trip to be a good experience if the Irish are to play in the NCAA Tourna­ment come March. 
Friday and Saturda)r
"Both games are tough games on the road," said Phelps. "I look at us right now coming off four-straight home wins -four good home wins that 

Senior Club 
just puts us in a positive frame of mind. Our confidence is up. It's just going back on the road 

Specials
again for two games and being able to take that challenge. When you play this type of com­petition now, it's no different from playing the first and 
Refills .75c 
second round on the road in the NCAA Tournament. Both 

Movie on Saturday
games are really going to chal­
lfTh~ Won't Tell You About It,
lenge us." 

Then You Know It Must Be Great.
IRISH ITEMS -Tonight's 
Sponsored by the Senior Class 
game tips off 8:30 EST, and Purple Passion. Out of thl! bathtub, into the can, cable station WGN will carry 
and onto the shelves of your favorite store. 
the game. Sunday's game 
Discover it for yourself.
starts at 2 EST, and ABC will 
Sti.Duls.Mo 63108 IS Proofioltled.forWorid
air it nationally. 

-


Toda 
Friday, February 6,1987 -page 11 

Far Side Gary Larson 


!'H TH[ NRA! 

FRIDAY 12:15-1 p.m.: Forum: "Catholic Higher Education in the American Contest,"by Prof. Philip Gleason, ND Department of History, Multipurpose Room, Center for Social Concerns 6 p.m. -12 a.m.: Ladies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Buffet Dinner and Dance, Notre Dame ACC, Monogram Room 7 p.m. "Slides & Stories from Chile,"by Lou Nanni & Kim Krasevac, CSC 7, 9:30p.m. & 12 a.m.: Movie, "Prizzi's Honor, "$1.50, Engineering Auditorium 
7:30 & 9:30p.m.: Friday Night Film Se­ries, "A Sunday in the Country,'' Annenberg Auditorium 
SATURDAY 8 a.m. -3 p.m.: Graduate Record Ex­amination, Engineering Auditorium 9 -10 a.m.: First Saturday Holy Hour of Reparation, Corby Hall Chapel, exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, all welcome 1 p.m.: Swimming and Diving, SMC vs. North Central College, Rockne Pool 1 p.m. Basketball, SMC vs. Taylor Uni­versity, Angela Athletic Facility 1 p.m.: Basketball, NDW vs. Miami (Florida), ACC 
Y£5 ... JOIN NOI.l ANP ff[C­
Wf.K£ ALL TH£ NRA AN/J 

EIV!i 12 !/Rfi10R-P!Hit/NG
Wt'K£ litRE ro caJVINC£ 

BIJL-LtT5 FRU .' JVST
YOV rHAT OWNIN&-II IH6JI­
f'OW£R£1? tr!FL£ I'> NOT ONLY 

WRITE TV : • • • . FIJN, 81JT "IJHOLF!:OIVE;· ~!.__ 6K.£AT NOW J ON ~7VP !tNY STRAY T/tN KS
I
r/1.4T Wll,NPCR tNTO M7 8A(.K· 
YARP... 
2 p.m.: Swimming, NDW vs. Ball State, Rolfs Aquatic Center 5 p.m.: Swimming, NDM vs. Kalamazoo, Rolfs Aquatic Center 7, 9:30p.m. & 12 a.m.: Movie, "Prizzi's Honor,''$1.50 Engineering Auditorium 
SUNDAY 
1:30 p.m.: Informal meeting on Spring Break trip to Fort Lauderdale, refresh­ments served, 122 Hayes-Healy 2 p.m.: Wrestling, ND vs. Central Mic­higan, ACC 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Broiled 5 oz. Filet Mignon Roast Duck w!Biggard Sauce Seafood Kebobs 
Saint Mary's 
Braised Swiss Steak Cheese Enchilada Baked Breaded Cod Deli Bar 

SObering Advice} cansavea~~~:cr 1 
Think Before You Drink ~~ Before You Drive • · 
. 
... 
ll\lK•., 
~~~~~ J~~~ . 
,, <> o o 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Damage 5 Organic soil 9 Melt 
13 Omnium­
gatherum 14 Patois 15 Barrett or 
Jaffe 16 Blessing 17 Rose oil 18 Iowa town 1$ Fictitious 22 Minute 23 Attlng 24 Smacks 27 Certain 
photos 32 Separate 33 Boasts 34 Aber knot 35 Commiseration 36 Creamery 
machine 37 Monkey 38 Single Item 39 Hunt 40 Bergere 

;,1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights .Reserved
41 Signal 



43 Slum 44 Mask or main 10-sapiens 45 Olympian 11 Dill herb 
Heiden 12 Rinse 46 Irish napery 14 Grassy areas 54 Yemen seaport 20 Can 55 Rope loop 21 Oath 56 Double curve 24 Flavor 57 Honey drink 25 Skirt style 58 Dark 26 Went to the 59 Public vehicle polls 60 Arm of the 27 Pie shell 
Amazon 28 Wisdom 61 Head: Fr. 29 Eastern Church 62 Assist member 
30-four 
DOWN (sweet) 1 Vagrant 31 Agnew 2 Felipe of 33 Scorch 
baseball 36 Old joke 
3 Tumult 37 Clergy 
4 Dull routin~J> 39 Family group 
5 Meaty · 40 Stylish 
6 Within: pref. 42 Scheduled 
7 Cord on Arab plan 47 Thought headdress 43 Hail 48 Tight 8 Demolished 45 Dinsmore 49 Superior 
9 Irish city 46 Electric bulb 50 Rod 51 Actlonal 
monster 52 Duck 53 Aber plant 
.. 

SAB presents NAZZ COMPETITION  .!'~_,..­ SAB presents: Ambassador Arkady Shevchenko "A View from the Kremlin"  
Tuesday, Feb. 10 at 8pm 

All those musically inclined (or not?) 
in Washington Hall
pick up applications in the SAB Office
,...,a(2nd floor LaFortune) ta Feb. 13. 
ReserVed seats $2 available at The Cellar in LaFortune basement
CASH PRIZES! 

Man! Info IVIIIIable with 1pplk:.tion ... 
now thru Tues., Feb. 10 
-
-·­
-


S~orts 
Two tough away matchups on tap as ND faces Vanderbilt and Kansas 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. -When the Notre Dame basketball takes to the road tonight, it will travel from the land of the giant killers to the land of the giants in the space of 48 hours. 
And the Irish won't want their trip to turn into some B­grade horror film. 

In this case, the part of the giant killers will be played tonight by the Commodores of Vanderbilt. So far at home this season, the Commodores have beaten Southeastern Confer­ence rivals Auburn and LSU and Indiana, the latter just one week after the Hoosiers downed the Irish. Vanderbilt stands at 13-9 (5-6 in the SEC) on the season following a con­ference loss at Tennessee Wed­nesday night. 
The commanding Com­modore is 7-0 senior center Will Perdue, who averages 17.8 points and eight rebounds a contest. Perdue gets help up front from Glen Clem (7.0, 4.3) and usually Bobby Westbrooks (6.3, 4.2). Eric Reid (2.0, 1.7) and Steve Reece (4.6, 3.0) also have seen time along the front line. 
The backcourt is led by Barry Goheen (12.3 points, 57 assists) and Barry Booker (11.2, 53). Scott Draud (8.8 
points) comes off the bench to solidify the backcourt and give V andy on of the better three­punch, three-point threats in the country. 
The Commodores aren't shy about gunning the ball up from 19-9 and beyond, averaging 14 bombs a game and connecting on 44 percent of them. Booker and Draud both average 50 per­cent from beyond the line. 
All in all, the Commodores could make a visit to Nashville less than musical to the Irish. 
"I think Vanderbilt is a very, very deceiving team," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "They are very tough to beat at home. I'm impressed with the way they play the game. (Vanderbilt head coach) 
C.M. Newton is a personal friend of mine. He's a class per­son, one of the gentlemen of the game of coaching. He's done an outstanding job of bringing their program to where it's very, very competitive. (The upsets) show how good they play at home. 
"They're a premier three­
point shooting team, and I like the way Perdue has improved over a year. I think he's stronger, and he's not afraid to go to the hole. Anytime you've got a seven-footer plus the three-point shooters, it just enables you to be that flexible as team." 
The second show of the Notre Dame double feature weekend finds the Irish at 18th-ranked Kansas. A lot was expected of the Jayhawks this year follow­ing their trip to the Final Four last season, despite the fact that they lost three senior starters who averaged 13.6 points per game among them. 
So far, the Jayhawks haven't lived up to the preseason hype, but the big reason for the lofty expectations was the return of 6-11 junior forward Danny Manning, considered one of the most gifted players in the col­lege game today. 
Manning, the fourth-leading scorer in Kansas history, leads the Jayhawks in both scoring 
(21.0) and rebounding (9.4), as well as blocked shots (35). Despite his size, Manning is one of the most agile big men around. · 
The only other returning starter for Larry Brown's club is senior point guard Cedric Hunter. Hunter is averaging 
12.5 points per game and has passed out 140 assists on the year. Rounding out the J ayhawk lineup are freshman forward Chris Piper (7.1 points, 5.1 rebounds), center Mark Pellock (3.1, 3.0) and Kevin Pritchard (10.3 points), another freshman, at off guard. 
see GUARD, page 10 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 

The juggernaut also known as the Notre Dame fencing pro­gram will roll east tomorrow to Columbus, Ohio, for an eight­team meet that fencing coach Mike DeCicco hopes will pro­vide him with some ideas about where his fencers stand at mid­season. 
"They have some individuals at Ohio State who scare the pants off me, if you want me to be frank~ about it," DeCicco said. "But I'm not going to lie and tell you that we're in bad shape for this weekend. Illinois in the future is our major com­petition right now. I don't think Ohio State has the depth to really go at us." 
Regardless of Ohio State's depth, the Buckeyes do have of the best foilists in the country in Sunil Sabharwal. Sabhar­wal, who finished seventh over­all in last year's N.C.A.A. Championships, will be a major challenge to Notre Dame's Yehuda Kovacs and Charles Higgs-Coulthard, who finished second and third respectively in that same com­petition. 
"To beat Wisconsin 20-7 doesn't mean anything unless you beat certain individuals," DeCicco said. "(Last weekend at Wayne State) I wanted to see how we were going to be against (sabreman Neil) Kes­sler and (foilist Avery) Goldstein. Those kids are going to be at the nationals, so they're the people you want to beat." 
Sabharwal will present a per-


Irish fencers journey to Columbus to take on Buckeyes 
sonal challenge to Kovacs, both of whom know each other and are close friends. 
"The foil team is pumped up for this guy," said DeCicco. "We're ready. Charles and Yehuda are ready, so we'll see what happens on Saturday." 
The Irish, as usual, are looking very strong as they head into this weekend's ac­tion. As a team, the men pos­sess a 9-0 overall record, 197-46 (.811) in individual bouts. Kovacs and freshman Joel Clark both have 11-0 individual records, while Higgs-Coulthard possesses a 14-1 mark in the foil. 
Kevin Stoutermire suffered a controversial loss last weekend at Wayne State to Neil Kessler, 
which  was  the first  of  the  
season  for  the  senior  
sabreman.  

"Kevin gave me a blow-by­blow account of the match when he came back, and there was some inconsistency in the way they scored the double­touches," said DeCicco. 

Robert Nobles will lead the two-mile relay in tomorrow's Blue­Orange Classic. Nobles and the rest of the Irish runners hope to gain spots in the upcoming N.C.A.A. Championships. 


Track team hopes to beat the clock 
in tomorrow's Blue-Orange Classic 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
In a time when the phrase,''It's not important if you win or lose but how you played the game," has been lost in the shuffle, Notre Dame's track team will prepare to face the brutally honest clock in the Blue­Orange Classic tomorrow. 
The Irish will face the likes of Illinois, Ohio State, Wisconsin and Illinois State in a non-scoring meet aimed at qualifying runners for the 
N.C.A.A. championships. 
"I'm looking forward to getting the best perfor­mances from the athletes and experiment with kids in different events," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. 
The most notable combi­nation for the Irish will be the first running of sopho­more David Warth, senior Robert Nobles, junior Nick Sparks and senior Jeff Van Wie in the two-mile relay. 
Each will run a half-mile leg and try to regain the magic that carried last year's relay team of graduates John McNelis, Jim Tyler, Nobles and Van Wie to a third-place finish at the 
N.C.A.A. Championships last year. 
"It's going to be a high­quality race," said VanWie. "One or two teams will break out to win and push to qualify for the N.C.A.A. Championships.'' 
Qualifying is the key word for the Irish in this meet, as they will be competing for time instead of place. Previ­ous performances have proved that the Irish have a strong all-around team, so this meet will be used as an indicator for the team's in­dividual strengths. 

Notre Dame will run junior Dan Garrett in the two-mile run, freshman Mike O'Connor in the 1000­yard run, freshman Glen Watson in the 60-yard hurdles, and juniors Tim Brown and Tony Ragunas in the 60-yard dash. 
Freshman shotputter Tom Kraus will try to continue his winning ways and junior Rich Muench will look to jump out in front of his com­petition for another week after an impressive perfor­mance in the Michigan meet. 
We have a stronger team than I've seen since I've been here," said Van Wie. "Hopefully we'll be able to attain our goal of making the N.C.A.A.'s and bring back a few more all-Americans." 





