McFarlane suicide attempt -page 3 

VOL. XXI, NO. 88 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10,1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The Observer /Mike Moran 
University President-elect Edward "Monk" lion await the debate on ~bortion. which took Malloy, Executive Assistant to the President place Monday at 8 p.m. m Washmgton Hall. William Beauchamp, and Msr. Joseph Gremil-See related story. 

Theologians debate abortion issue 
Associated Press 
Notre Dame provided a rare Catholic forum Monday night for two prominent Catholic theologians to debate the Church's stand against abortion. 
"The issue, however con­troversial, must be dis­cussed, and there is no bet­ter place to discuss it than on a university campus," said Father Richard McBrien, chairman of the Notre Dame theology de­partment, who introduced the debaters. 
Daniel Maguire, a theol­ogy professor at Marquette University, argued the Church should reconsider its opposition to abortion in light of inconsistent thought throughout Church history. 
Father James Burtchaell, professor of theology at Notre Dame, said Catholics should instead heed a prohibition of abortion dating to the documents of 1st century Christians. 

Maguire said the abortion issue debate was one of the first such discussions to oc­cur in recent years on a Catholic campus. He thanked Notre Dame Presi­dent Father Theodore Res­burgh for allowing the event to occur. 
Notre Dame President­select, Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, attended the debate but did not speak. When Malloy was selected last fall to succeed Hesburgh this spring, Malloy said Notre Dame would remain a Catholic university which praises thoughtful theologi­cal conflict. 
"Honest debate is the only way to get this abortion bone out of Catholic throats," Maguire said. 
Maguire, who asserted his opposition to abortion in most instances, said "neit­her (Burtchaell) nor I is pro­abortion. "No one in their right mind is pro-abortion." 
Maguire, however, said no "clear and constant" anti­abortion thread can be found in the history of Church teachings. 
see ABORTION, page 4 


Beirut kidnappers extend the deadline for killing hostages 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Moslem kidnappers said they would ex­tend their deadline for killing three American hostages and an Indian when the appointed time arrived midnight Monday "until further notice." 
A handwritten statement in Arabic signed by Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine described the decision as a response to plea& from the hostages, their families, Lebanese organizations and the Indian government. 
But the statement also said the group would retaliate for the "insult" made by U.S. Sec­retary of State George Shultz, who said the people of kidnapping-beset Beirut "have a plague." It did not indicate what form the action might take, or whether it could in­volve the hostages. 
The statement was delivered to the Beirut office of a Western news agency with a picture of Robert Polhill, one of the hostages. Polhill, frail-appearing and bearded, wearing a T-shirt and spec­tacles, was pictured looking into the camera with a faint smile. 
Hostage Alann Steen had said in an earlier message Monday that the hostages would die unless Israel freed 
400 Arab prisoners. He said the 
see THREAT, page 7 
Senate again defeats gay rights resolution 
By KAREN WEBB Copy Editor 
The proposal recommending that homosexuals be allowed to reserve rooms for meetings and advertise through Univer­sity media was defeated for the second time at Monday night's Student Senate meeting, when Student Body President Mike Switek again broke a tie by voting against the proposal. 
The senate also voted a second time to add a referen­dum to the upcoming student election ballot asking students to rate The Observer, and, in new business, voted unani­mously to accept a proposal outlining plans for the sophomore-sponsored Little Sibs weekend. 
The proposal recomending extended rights for homosexuals on campus was resubmitted in revised form by Student Senator John Gardiner. 
Gardiner said he resub­mitted the resolution because the new one is "clearer in that it separates formal recognition from the basic privileges of reserving rooms and advertis­ing through University media," adding that he thought the reformulation would be more agreeable to student senators. 
Another reason for resubmit­ting his proposal, Gardiner said, was the fact that more senators were present at Mon­day night's meeting than at last week's meeting. 
Student Body Vice President Don Montanaro presented to the senate flyers he said were circulated and were posted around campus Monday. The flyers carried the post office 
see SENATE, page 7 

lnterhall hockey fight leaves one injured, one suspended 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
A fight during a Thursday night hockey match between Pangborn and Sorin halls left a Pangborn player with a slashed neck and resulted in the expulsion of a Sorin player from the interhall hockey league for the remainder of the season. 
Sorin Hall also has been placed on probation for the rest of the season as a result of the fight. 
Officials ended the game early in the second half, after a fight broke out which cleared both teams' benches. 
An Office of Non-Varsity Ath­letics official said the injured player, Pangborn's Brian Kel­ly, received 18 stitches in his neck, caused by a skate. Kelly was taken to the hospital by Notre Dame Security directly from the ACC. 
"One of the guys on our team checked one of their guys who was kind of small," said Sorin Athletic Commissioner Gary Smith. 
"I saw the kid get taken out on a stretcher and I heard he got 18 stitches in his neck," Smith said. He added that the game was called "about three to five minutes into the second half, probably about quarter after midnight." 
Said Pangborn Co-Captain Kevin Dolan: "I've seen worse fights, but that's the worst I've ever been in in this league." 
The NVA said the player in­volved in the fight will not be allowed to play for the rest of the season. "(Sorin player) Phil Marin was determined the aggressor and has been kicked out of the league," an NVA of­ficial said. 
Marin said he "just checked that guy." 
"They're mad about that," Marin said. "But I didn't start a fight with him. 
"He was moving the puck, I went after him and leveled him. Then the Pangborn bench cleared," said Marin. "It was my blade (that hit him), but I didn't kick him." 
If he did kick the player, Marin said, the player would have been hurt very badly. 
According to Sorin player Mike Moran, "There was a little bumping on both sides. In the first half, there was a little scuffle in front of the net. One of the (Pangborn) guys shoved his glove into the goalie's face. I was on the bench at the time." 
The injury to the Pangborn player occurred in the second half, said Moran. "I saw our guy trying to get away. Four guys were after him. The fight­ing was held up, but tempers were flaring," Moran said. 
"The guy with the cut in his neck was still pretty gung-ho about getting our guy. Every­one wasn't at fault. I'd say the majority was trying to break it up," he added. 
"The refs did the best they could, trying to break it up," said Dolan. "I know one ref was hurt himself. 
"It was uncalled for," Dolan said. "I'm sorry it had to come to this. I have nothing against them making some good hits, but it was a little cheap," said Dolan. 
see FIGHT, page 6 


The Observer 
Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 2 
In Brief ·· 
About 75 students recently rallied outside the Indiana state capitol to prohibit the use of state funds for investment in companies doing business in South Africa. Students from Indiana University and Purdue are urging the state legislature to pass a bill that would force the trustees from both schools to divest. The bill is scheduled for legislative debate this spring. -The Observer 
Rock star Joan Jett quietly took a back seat at Warwick Mall Cinema for her first start-to-finish look at "Light Of Day," in which she makes her film debut. Playing a rock singer and unwed mother in the film which also stars Michael J. Fox, Jett said it is her music that will get her primary attention. "I won't do just any script. This took like 10 months out of my life. I'm a rock 'n' roller first and foremost," she said. -Associated Press 
Mormon Prophet-President Ezra Taft Benson spoke Sunday to 16,000 young people at the Anaheim Convention Center, offering advice on books, dating, job hunting and exercise. "Keep yourselves at­tractive, maintain high ideals, place yourselves in a posi­tion to meet worthy men and be engaged in constructive activities," he told the women. To the men, he said: "It will be your role to be the leader in the home. You will be the provider, and so you must carefully and prayerfully choose a career."-Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Populism and Catholicism in Latin America," a Brown Bag Seminar, will be presented by Professor Enrique Dussell today at 12:00-1:15 p.m. in 131 Decio. A Latin American style party, called "pena," will feature entertainment by John Kennedy and refreshments from Latin America tonight from 7-11 at the Center for Social Concerns. These events are a part of Third World Aware­ness Week. -The Observer 
Richard "Dig~er"Phelps,headbasketballcoach at Notre Dame, wllf give a fourth in a series of lectures offered by Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality called "The ~atholic Experience and Sports," Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. m Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
"The Catholic Faith Series" continues tonight from 7-8:30 in the Keenan-Stanford chapel with "The Cath­olic Experience and Prayer" presented by Pat Gantz, 
C.S.C. -The Observer 



Weather 
Mother Nature will light up your life today with mostly sunny skies and the high near 35. Mostly clear tonight with lows in the low 20s. Mostly sunny Wednesday with highs in the low 40s. 

Design Editor ................. Alice Kroeger Design Assistant .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Mike Mojica Typesetter ....................... John Connelly .............................................Jose Novas News Editor .... Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ......................... Chris Julka Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Julie Collinge VIewpoint Layout .... Heidi Traxler 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Accent Copy Editor. .... .. ..... 10m Beatty Accent Layout........ .. .. .. ... Carey Gels Business Page Editor ............. Jim Riley Business Page Layout ...... Heidi Traxler Typists.... .. ... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ................. Ron Almiron SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design...... . .............. Joan Wrappe Photographer ..................... Mike Moran 
r:----:6: 
'•' 



'Assassins' ban questioned in light of Friday night flicks 
"The philosophic underpinnings of such an activity are in diametric opposition to the reli­gious and philosophical foundations of this place." 
The associate vice president for residence life in a news article two weeks ago reiterated this statement, which was officially issued by mem­bers of the Senior Staff. 
Was he referring to pre-marital sex? Plagiarism? Racial discrimination? No, he was giving the University's reason for continuing the ban on the nation-wide "Assassin game," whereby one tries to eliminate opponents with rubber-tipped dart guns. 
Now I took only three cours,es in philosophy, so granted I may be a bit slow with regard to the metaphysics of rubber-tipped plastic darts. Still, I have to say I fail to see the connection between the Catholic philosophy this University has inherited from Father Sorin and proclaim­ing all participants of the Assassin game to be anathema. 
Let's consider for a moment "the religious and philosophical foundations of this place" which suddenly have become so important. Now without doubt this university probably does more than any other to commit its student body to a specific philosophy. If someone from the University of Madison of my home state were to visit, for instance, he would probably think he's having a bad dream about the Middle Ages. Still, when we start banning dart gun games on a philosophical basis, I think it's im­portant we investigate what exactly this basis is a bit critically. 
Go to the Engineering Auditorium, the Snite Museum or the basement of your own dorm to see a movie. For the most part, it is possible even Mother Theresa wouldn't blink at what's shown. But come ott, is a dart-gun game really that much worse than Psycho, The Exorcist, Scarface or Dirty Harry movies? 
I walked in on one flick called "A Nightmare on Elm Street," where a disenchanted chap with a set of overgrown steel fingernails was gleefully raking the flesh of teenagers who had been copulating at some pool-side party--only to explode out of the gut of some poor kid in a number of other scenes. 
Now let's be serious. How is that consistent with the religious and philosophical foundations of this university? Is someone going to tell me that St. Augustine would concur with the ban on plastic dart guns while winking at "enter­taining" films like this? 
Granted, administration offiicials were right in expressing concern if it is true that "we had 


Chris Julka 
Copy Editor 

one student who suffered serious psychological problems as a result of the game," as they claim. But if a student can crack up from shoot­ing plastitt darts, don't you think it's possible some people may get some rather unchristian ideas from movies of the Texas Chain Saw Mas­sacre genre which are shown regularly here? 
Or let's take parties as another example. Now for the most part Notre Dame students are quite mature, holding gatherings with at the most a keg or beer cooler. But there are a few student bashes, which are not too difficult to find, where one feels one has been transported to the Roman Empire in the days just before it fell. How does one glance away from people puking and shriek­ing, puffing reefers and poking themselves with needles while denouncing a game with plastic darts? 
Now of course we had a thing called the sexual revolution and Woodstock and all that other wonderfully "progressive" sixties stuff. The legacy of this era will probably have to be ac­cep~ed until this country goes entirely down the 
dram. If one grants this, the University has no real choice in allowing these other events, one may argue. 
Nevertheless, invoking our "religious and philosophical foundation" as a basis to ban a game of tag is bringing some pretty big guns to bear (if you'll pardon the tastelessly militaristic expression). If we do this much, we must acknowledge other things we allow which are probably making Father Sorin do cartwheels in his coffin. 



-------~ ~---~--.......
---~-----­
The Observer Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 3 
-..~I 

Former security advisor McFarlane fails in attempt to commit suicide 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Former na­tional security advisor Robert McFarlane, who figured prominently in President Reagan's clandestine sale of weapons to Iran, was hospi­talized Monday for a Valium overdose that police were treating as an apparent suicide attempt. 
McFarlane ingested between 25 and 30 pills, said Detective Lauren Acquaviva of the Montgomery County Sheriff's Office. He said he did not know how many milltgrams were in each pill. 
Acquaviva said a police in­vestigation was routine proce­dure lifter a report of "an un­attended death or death attempt." 
McFarlane had been sched­uled to testify Monday before a commission investigating the Iran-Contra affair, according to published and broadcast reports. 
CBS News, quoting un­named, informed sources, re­ported that hospital officials believed the overdose resulted from a suicide attempt. CBS, citing unnamed friends of McFarlane, also reported that he had been depressed and emotional recently. 
But McFarlane's lawyer, Leonard Garment, said ''neit­her I nor the sources of the report can know what Bud McFarlane's intentions were." 
Garment called the story "the most irresponsible and obscene piece of sourcing and reporting I've heard of in my whole professional life." 
The lawyer said he had not talked with McFarlane since last Friday. But, he said, ex­perts on the drug believed it was virtually impossible to commit suicide with Valium. 
"Bud McFarlane has served his country long and faithfully, and never with greater distinc­tion than by coming forward and being the only one to give a full story, under oath and without access to a single page of his official record, of the Iranian arms sale," Garment said. "I am sure the country will simply wish him well." 

Class registration, library hours discussed by Board of Governance 
theology classes, especially freshmen and sophomores," suggested Betsy Burke, vice president for academic relations and college affairs. 
In regard to the proposal to open Cushwa-Leighton library earlier on Sunday's, Burke SQid 500 more students signed the petition last Wednesday, bring­ing the total to approximately one-half the student body. 
However, the petition will not be presented to the Academic Council as previously an­nounced said Heller. "I am going to meet with Sr. Bernice Hollenhorst (director of Cushwa-Leighton Library). It will depend upon the results of the meeting whether or not the petition goes to the Academic Council." 
In other business, Mary Fis­her, judicial commissioner, an­nounced the proposals made by Security for security improve­ments. The proposals include better lighting, more sidewalks, and speed bumps. 
Rebecca Hetland, campus ministry commissioner, an­nounced that peacemakers, campus ministry, government club, and the women's studies club will sponsor Philippine Awareness Week Feb. 23-26. Activities will include lectures, a presentation on Philippine culture, and a eucharistic celebration in Regina Chapel. 
Burke also announced that the lecture series sponsored by student government will begin Tuesday Feb. 24 at 7 p.m. in 
Haggar Parlor with Dr. David Pilgrim, assistant professor of sociology, taking place every Tuesday thereafter. 
Thankstoyou ... 
itwortcs... for AU. 
OFUS 

Unitedway
• 

By SHARON HEGG Staff Reporter 
Registration for classes, li­brary hours, and security im­provements were discussed at last night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. 
Jeanne Heller, student body president, said she met with Teresa Marcy, assistant to the vice president, concerning the registration of Notre Dame stu­dents for Saint Mary's classes. 
There have been problems with students, particularly Notre Dame students, who go down the back stairs of Angela Athletic Facility, pull cards, and then wait in line, according to Heller. She said security will be tightened. 
"The only real problem has been with the theology classes. Teresa Marcy is checking to see if theology majors at Notre Dame get registration priority over Saint Mary's students," said Heller. 
"Maybe Saint Mary's stu­dents could pre-pre-register for 

NOTICE TO ALL POTENTIAL MAY1987GRADUATES 
The Registrar's Office has sent a mailer to each student who is expected to graduate this May. It contains the potential graduate's NAME and HOMETOWN as they will appear in the commencement program and the NAME as it will appear on the diploma. 
If you have not received a mailer, and expect to graduate this May, or if you would like to make any changes to either your name or hometown, please contact the Registrar's Office before February 28, 1987. Questions about your Degree/Major should be directed to your Dean. 
Diploma name changes requested after February 28 will require a $15.00 charge. 
You will receive a commencement ticket request form by February 28, 1987 together with information about announcements, cap/gown rental, etc. 
Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D. Dean of Admissions and University Registrar 
-~-----~--~-­
Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 4 
The Observer 

A mourner reaches out to touch the tomb of entertainer Liberace late Sunday afternoon at the Forest Lawn Memorial Park in the Holly-
Group accuses Nicaraguan rebels of killing Sandinista sympathizers 
U.S. government with a pattern of gross human rights abuses that, to date, the Contras show no sign of curbing." 
Specifically, the report said the Contras "engage in selec­tive but systematic killing of persons they perceive as representing the government, in indiscriminate attacks against civilians or in dis­regard for their safety and in outrages against the personal dignity of prisoners." 
It added that rebel kidnap­pings of civilians have been widespread, apparently for the purposes of recruitment as well as intimidation. "A significant number of the kidnap victims are children," the report said. 
But the study also said that the Nicaraguan government, "as a matter of policy," engages in abusive interroga­tion tactics against prisoners, including psychological pres­sure and threats used to secure their confessions. 

The report said the judicial system in Nicaragua often is subject to political manipula­tion because of the close iden­tification between inves­tigators, prosecutors and JU'dtg
es. 
Anti-Violence Activist 
Center lor Teachtng Non-Violence & NCTV lull-lime stall. Lodging & $400/mo. Research on aggrld'SSIOO, publishing & lobbying against violtmce in TV, lilrn, war toys, sports, erotica, etc. Non-vtolent films. Next to U Illinois. Student loans deferable. 217-384-1920. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-U.S.-backed rebel forces in Nicaragua carry out "selective but sys­tematic killing" of perceived Sandinista government sym­pathizers and routinely kidnap civilians, including significant numbers of children, a human rights group said Monday. 
The Nicaraguan govern­ment, meanwhile, although it generally respects the laws of war, mistreats prisoners, does not guarantee due process and has imposed unwarranted limits on press and religious freedom, the group reported. 
The 166-page study was prepared by Americas Watch, a liberal New York-based human rights monitoring group, on the basis of a series of fact-finding missions to Nicaragua last year. 
It is the lOth report by Americas Watch on Nicaragua since 1982 and covers from February to December 1986. 
Americas Watch, which of­ten has drawn sharp criticism from U.S. officials during its six-year existence, accused the Reagan administration of un­fairly portraying the Sandi­nista government in the most negative terms while turning a blind eye to abuses of the 

Abortion 
continuedfrom page 1 
"It is simply fallacious to say 

Christian teachings always 
condemned abortion without 
going into the context in which 
they did so," he said. 
Burtchaell countered that 

early Christians extended 
protections to the unborn. 
"Among themselves (early 

Christians), abortion continued 
to be reviled as unthinkable for 
the believer," he said. "The 
repudiation of abortion was not 
an isolated or esoteric doctrine. 
"It is the same ruthless un­

willingness to tolerate others 
that shows in the slaying of the 
unborn, the newborn, or even 
APPhoto 

wood Hills area of Los Angeles. Liberace's over­sized signature is on the face of the tomb along with a drawing of a piano and candelabras. 
rebels, known as Contras. 
"No attempt whatsoever is made to moderate such portrayals in the light of actual performance," the report said. 
State Department spokes­man Charles Redman had no comment on the report, saying department officials had not seen it. The administration's own annual human rights report, which assesses all na­tions of the world, is expected to be released in a few days. 
Americas Watch Vice Chair­man Aryeh Neier told a news conference the report did not specify whether the Sandinista government or the Contras were responsible for the most abuses. To take such a stand, he said, would tend to diminish the abuses of the side deemed less guilty. 
But the report leaves the im­pression that the most serious rights abuses were committed by the Contras. Last week, As­sistant Secretary of State El­liott Abrams, who has fre­quently clashed with Neier in the past, said the Sandinista government is carrying out a "reign of terror" on Nicaraguan citizens. 
The Americas Watch report calls for an end to U.S. funding of the rebels on grounds that such support "associates the 
the parent," he said. 
Notre Dame researchers report that only 6 percent of American Catholic paris­hioners support the practice of abortion on demand legalized by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1973. 
The University's continuing study of parish life showed seven out of 10 parishioners, 
however,  accept  abortion  to  
save  the mother's life,  or  in  
cases of rape or incest.  

Fewer than one in four parish priests surveyed accept abor­tion even under those extreme circumstances. 
Senior Staff Reporter Mark Dickinson contributed to this report. 

Coroner's report says Liberace died of AIDS 
Associated Press 
INDIO, Calif.-Liberace died of a disease caused by AIDS, the Riverside County coroner said Monday, reporting the results of an autopsy on the en­tertainer. 
Coroner Raymond Carrillo said he believed that an oppor­tunistic infection triggered by AIDS killed Liberace, who died Wednesday at age 67 in his Palm Springs home. 
"I believe the AIDS virus causes all these .... It allows all these microorganisms to develop," said Carrillo. 
The report contradicted claims by Liberace aides that he had not contracted acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
That Liberace was suffering from AIDS was first reported on Jan. 24 by the Las Vegas Sun. The newspaper attributed the information to unidentified sources. 
Denise Collier, a spokes­woman for Liberace, said Liberace had pernicious anemia, heart disease and em­physema. 
On Jan. 26, publicist Seymour Heller had said Liberace's anemia was caused by a two­month, weight-loss diet of noth­ing but watermelons, although Liberace's Las Vegas physician later disputed that. 
Dr. Ronald Daniels, a physician who treated Liberace, reported the cause of death as cardiac arrest due to heart failure brought on by sub­acute encephalopathy. This means the heart stopped due to a gradual loss of the heart's ability to pump brought on by some chronic problem in the brain. 
Riverside County officials refused to accept the death cer­tificate signed by Daniels when they discovered the coroner had not been contacted as re­quired in the case of_ possible contagious diseases, and be­cause a doctor wasn't in atten­dance when Liberace died, Carrillo said. 
Coroner's investigator Sabas Rosas said if proper procedure had been followed, it wouldn't have been necessary for his of­fice to hold a news conference on the cause of death, offending Liberace's fans. 
"It's too bad it went to this extent," said Rosas. "If protocol had been followed the way it should have been, it probably wouldn't have ended up where we're at. 
"We're doing our duty under 

the law. We owe it to the public we serve. The mortuary had an obligation to notify us," Rosas said. 
Medical records showed that before Liberace's death, the entertainer tested positive in January for the presence of an­tibodies to the AIDS virus, Rosas said. 
A positive test means only that a person has been exposed at one time to the virus and formed antibodies against it, and not necessarily that the person was still infected with the virus or actually developed acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
Now-enjoy a job for MBA's while studying to be one! 
liT's MBA with a Management Internship 
This full-time, five-semester, day program includes one semester in which qualified students are placed in a paid position with a cooperating Chicago corporation. Through internship you can gain valuable management experience and have the opportunity to advance to full-time employment with your internship company while earning a portion of your expenses. 
Your degree will be from liT, the university uniquely able to equip you for career advancement in the age of technology. 
This program is open to individuals with an undergraduate degree in any field. 
INQUIRE NOW! Ted Heagstedt Director of Full-Time MBA Programs ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY School of Business Administration 10 West 31 Street Chicago, Illinois 60616 312/567-5140 
P.O. Box 2157. Champa1gn IL old20 

Spend Summer And Fall 1987 In Sunny Spain! 
Quality Instruction At Economy Prices In: -Business Administration .Hispanic Studies -Arts and Sciences 
*********************************************** 
Graduate Courses in Hispanic Studies Offered in July 
*********************************************** 
Contact: Admissions, Saint Louis University 221 N. Grand Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63108 Toll-.free tel.: 1-800-325-6666 

The Observer Tuesday, February 10,1987 -page 5 
APPhoto

Video bus 
Audrey Eissler of Elmont, N.Y., says the monitor above her head makes the trip to Atlantic City much shorter. An Ocean City businessman is testing his idea of putting televisions on casino­bound bus such as this. 


ND AVE APTS. 


Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completelyfurnished 
Sign up before break and receive a lOo/o discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 
Spend Yours in Style with the DESIGNER'S DIFFERENCE 
o 
Round trip tranoportotlon 10 beautiful Daytona Beach via modern highway molorcoachas. 

o 
Seven nights acoommodollono at ono ol Daytona's Hnesl hotels. Tha majority ol hotels thai ws use are chajn operated and are newty remodeled ~eel strict chain requirements. They are all located 


U.S. atomic weapons system called largest existing target for Soviets 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The U.S. atomic weapons command sys­tem has become one of the larg­est, as well as one of the most important, targets for a possi­ble Soviet strike, according to a book published Monday by Harvard and the Brookings In­stitution. 
An attack on any of more than 1,500 key points in the sys­tem might be misinterpreted as an attack on the whole, trig­gering a devastating American response, said Ashton Carter, a Harvard professor who helped edit the book and con­tributed two chapters. 
"The distinction between in­itiation and retaliation would probably become blurred," Carter told a news conference at Brookings, a liberal re­search institution in Washing­ton. 
The book, "Managing Nu­clear Operations," finds good and bad in the intricate sys­tems devised to manage super­power nuclear arsenals. 
The good news, said con­tributor Donald Cotter, is that in 40 years of handling nuclear arms, neither the Soviet Union nor the United States has acci­dentally launched an intercon­tinental ballistic missile or ex­ploded a nuclear bomb by mistake. 
Yet Cotter, a former assis­tant secretary of defense, ex­pressed concern that "techno}­

dlrectty on lhe beech and are the beet po&alble accommodaHona to make a luxurious vacation. 
From $200.00 
o 0p11ono1 ~Y oxcurolonllo Dloney Wotld. Epoo4 Centor, Deep Sea Fishing. Sea World, Woi·N· Wild, Plll1y Ship, Hawaiian Luou, and many more altrocllons. 
• Free pool deck parties wtth mualc and refreahal6nta. At the hotels that we use, our poc:N decks are 
U-Drive-It $149.00 
much larger and more popular. Consumer companlaa like thla and have agreed to run contests and giveaway promoUonalltema on all ol our pool dacka. 
• A prolesalonol otalf lo alwayo preeentlo maka your lrovolo worry lree. 
Contact Campus Rep. 
• Spocllli dlocounta have boon orronged wllh Ooy!Ona Beach morchanta, Including nightclubs, rMtlurlll11, gift lhope and much mora. 
at 283-4003
-· DEADLINE FEB. 27 
o Spoclal car rental prices lqr all otudenta 18 yeora and older. AI moat o1 our hotels, tho cars will be 
, local bualnBSHa and the Chamber of Commerce have arranged 
otudenll 


ogy opportunities rather than an overriding strategy drove the acquisition" of nuclear forces and the systems to direct them. 
The bad news, and the heart of the issue, the book says, is that although the weapons can be tested underground without breaking treaties or endanger­ing lives, the operating sys­tems cannot be tried out in con­ditions resembling war. 
More bad news is that the 750­page book, written by 22 gov­ernment and academic experts who are supposed to under­stand nuclear issues, raises more questions than it answers. 
One of the editors, John Stein bruner, who is director of foreign policy studies at Brook­ings, likened nuclear manage­ment systems to a giant ma­chine with thousands of gears and parts, which has never been tested. No one knows how, or even whether, it will work. 
Another contributor, Paul Bracken, wrote that the super­powers have not woven ideas on how to end a war "into the fabric of military organiza­tions." 
That could exacerbate two possible wartime problems: breakdown in communications between U.S. and Soviet leaders or breakdown of com­munications between the leaders and their own nuclear forces, wrote Bracken, a Yale professor. 
"You have to make sure that the weapons designed to deter war do not start one," said Steinbruner, who heads the foreign policy program at Brookings. 
While the Soviet Union and United States have avoided the brink of nuclear conflict, the book said, several events have highlighted the slippery edge. 
Mter the death of Kremlin leader Leonid Brezhnev in No­vember 1982, the Soviets waited four days before naming a new general secre­tary. U.S. officials are still not sure who was in charge of the Soviet nuclear arsenal during those four days, and they fear that, given Kremlin problems in transferring power, the lines of control might be confused in a crisis. 
In 1983, the Soviets shot down a Korean airliner, killing 269 civilians, including 61 Americans, after the civilian plane entered Soviet airspace, flying over sensitive military areas. The Soviets said they thought it was a spy plane, and Western powers were left won­dering about the reliability of Soviet detection systems. 
In August 1984, Soviet Pacific Fleet Headquarters flashed a war alert to ships at sea to prepare to engage U.S. forces in combat. The false alarm again shook the West. 
Observer announces new staff promotions 
Chris Bowler, a senior gov­ernment!ALPA major, of Edina, Minn., has been named managing editor of The Obser­ver. Bowler was production manager since April. 
Bowler's goals include bring­ing stability to the operations of the paper and providing a smooth transition for the new editorial board to be named in March. 
In addition, Mark McLaugh­lin and Melissa Warnke have been named co-production managers. McLaughlin is a junior aerospace engineering major from Middletown, N.J., and Warnke is a junior accoun­tancy major from Westlake, Ohio. 
McLaughlin and Warnke were both assistant production managers and design editors for the past year. Both say they seek to provide direction to the production department. 
Margie Kersten, Saint Mary's editor, will be coordi­nating the bi-monthly Religion page. Jim Riley, an assistant news editor, has been named editor of the weekly Business page. 
Mary Heilmann, an assistant news editor, will coordinate the editorial content of the upcom­ing Father Theodore Hesburgh commemorative issue. 

Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 6 
The Observer 



Conversational dolls introduced at toy fair 
Associated Press 
NEW York-Once upon a time, dolls just sat there and looked pretty. Then they wet, they talked, and they walked. Now they hold conversations with each other without a child even being in the room. 
At the 84th annual American International Toy Fair, which started Monday, manufac­turers unveiled animated talking toys that not only com­municate with each other, but "understand" what a child says to them and respond with an appropriate answer. 
Also introduced were high­tech action figures that will take electronic cues from sig­nals beamed by new animated TV shows. 
Manufacturers are hoping such toys can enliven the rela­tively flat $12.5 billion toy mar­ket. 
Rick Anguilla, editor of the trade publication Toy and Hobby World, said, "We see the area of growth in true interac­tive toys--not just toys that have something to say and ran­domly say it, but those that al­most seem to think and can have real conversations." 
Put two Talking Cabbage Patch Kids ($100 a piece, retail) in a room and press the buttons on their stomachs. They'll sense each other's pres­ence and begin chatting. 
Th~y may discuss ice cream­-some are programmed to like vanilla, others chocolate or strawberry. Children can join in the discussion too, of course. The new dolls know what's 
Labor market spawns need for office day care 
Associated Press 
An increasing number of child-care programs are likely to be instituted by employers who want to keep experienced staffers on the job, a new study says. 
"In the future, tight labor markets will make it harder to replace experienced female employees who leave work to start a family," says "Juggling Jobs and Babies: America's Child Care Challenge," a report by Martin O'Connell of the U.S. Census Bureau and David Bloom of Harvard Uni­versity, published Monday by the private Population Refer­ence Bureau. 
In the years since the end of World War II, women have flooded into the labor market, a development which has con­fronted millions of families with the dilemma of finding care for small children, accor­ding to the report. 
Today more than half of married women with children under age 6 are employed, compared with only one in eight in 1950, Census Bureau statistics show. 
Responses to this develop­ment have varied from family to family and region to region, with some employers initiating programs to provide their workers with child-care pro­grams. Such actions will be­come increasingly important, says the study. 
Some women can hire help, but most domestic workers do going on around them. Take them for a bumpy car ride and the doll might say, "OK, that's enough. All this bouncing up and down makes me dizzy." Kiss the doll's cheek, and it'll say, "Thank you for the kiss. May I have another one, please?" 
Worlds Of Wonder, the com­pany that introduced the animated talking Teddy Rtix­pin, now has come up with Julie. 
Unlike past dolls that shot out random phrases with little relevance to what a child said, Julie has more than 100 sound­activated responses in her computer chip memory. 
She recognizes voices and words. When she hears some­one say he or she is hungry, Julie will respond, "Let's eat." Take her into a dark room and she'll ask, "Can you see OK? it's kind of dark." The doll can even be trained to only respond to its owner's voice. 
Yes, there is a limit to the dolls' intelligence--they only react to specific words or stimuli. 
The next step in interactive toys are those like Axlon's "Tech Force" ($250 for a dual­control set). As Tech Force characters battle evildoers in a television show, their toy counterparts will charge around the living room floor firing laser lights, in response to inaudible signals sent via the cartoon's soundtrack. 
The developers say such toys will make television watching participatory, instead of merely reactive. 
less than half the housework 
and "husbands are not much help either," with the majority of them doing less than one­fourth of the housework, the authors of the study said. 
Women have been seeking jobs in a market wit:'l a surplus of labor, during a time in which the children of the post-World War II Baby Boom flooded the market. But that will end in the 1990s as the smaller "Baby Bust" generation comes along and there are more jobs than workers, according to the report. 
This means companies will have to compete for experi­enced workers, and the result of this will be increased incen­tives to create such programs as child-care, said the report. 
In addition, pressure for more child-care programs will also be created by other recent trends such as delayed childbearing and the high divorce rate, according to the report. 
Meanwhile, "lack of affor­dable child care is probably preventing many poorly ed­ucated and low-income mothers from working at all, when they are the women who need jobs the most." 
Even after labor becomes more scarce, however, "most employers will need coaxing by federal, state and local govern­ment to adopt progressive child-care policies," the report contended. 


In accordance with the general gender ratio on what treat they should buy to carry them campus, it would seem there are two men for through the night. The shop is located in the every women at the Huddle Sweet Shop, as is basement of the LaFortune Student Center. 
the case of these three students pondering over 

Fight 
continued from page 1 
"It was a long cut. It wasn't life-threatening," said So:rin team Captain Tony Watson. "But whenever you get a cut from something as sharp as a skate, you want to get it looked at." 
According to Pangford Rec­tor Father Wilford Borden, Kelly's injury was "superfi­cial. He got a few stitches, but he's fine." 
Marin said, "I know he went 

Feb.. 11, 1987 
Hot Chocolate and Skatin9 
~~ At theA.C.C.It 
~ 11:15 -12-15am. 
)J sponsored by SAB 
.________________.______..... 
THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE 






MCAT 
FIRST 
FEB. 11
CLASS 
~{ s~~ 

KAPLAN~
STANLEY H KAPtAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
The worlds leading test prep organization 
CAll DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
1717 [. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-4115 South Bend, IN lt6637 

to class the next day. He just had a big pad over his neck. I leveled him, but it was a clean hit. I'm still in the wrong. There's no checking allowed and I checked him. 
"The whole bench came after me. (Kelly) was the first one at me. I think the guys hit him from behind and he fell right on top of me," Marin said. "There was checking going on the whole game." 
According to Smith, Sorin has "a bad reputation with NVA. · "We have teams that don't respect us, but there's no hate for any team," said Smith. 
*call for details about your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 

The Observer Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 7 
Threat 
continued/rom page 1 
captors would not reconsider the death verdict or extend the deadline. 
"We will be executed at mid­night" Steen, 47, of Boston, said in the letter to his wife. It was accompanied by notes to their wives from the two other kid­napped American college teachers. 
"Until then if you do love us and your hearts beat for us, put pressure on Israel to show good will. Let Israel promise the or­ganization (of the kidnappers) to show good will," Steen wrote. 
"Let Israel promise the or­ganization plainly and offi­cially that 400 Palestinian mujaheds (holy warriors) will be free. Otherwise, we won't be alive after midnight." 
The statement at midnight said the kidnappers found' 'cer­tain positive points" in remarks by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel about their demand for the release of Arab prisoners. 
"We want the fastest clarifications on this subject," it said, without elaborating. 
Peres said Monday in Jerusalem that Israel had not received a request from the United States to free the prisoners, and that "Israel won't take any initiative on its own." 
He declared on Sunday, however, that Israel was will­ing to discuss trading Arab prisoners for an Israeli airman shot down in Lebanon. 
The kidnappers' midnight statement also said its retalia­tion for Shultz' comment about Beirut would "deter everybody from daring to attribute his own cancerous diseases to the others." 
Shultz said in New York Sun­day that the "people of Beirut ... have a plague there and they're isolating themselves from the world and the world should isolate them." 
Steen's three-page letter was delivered 8 hours before the kidnappers' deadline to the Beirut office of a Western news agency with a photograph of Steen. 
It implied that an Israeli promise would suffice and that the 400 prisoners would not ac­tually have to be released Mon­day. 
In Washington, the Reagan administration position, as ex­pressed Monday by both White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater and State Depart­ment spokesman Charles Red­man, was once again to rule out concessions to terrorists. Both men said Washington has not approached Israel on the kid­nappers' demand. 
Steen's wife, students and of­ficials of Beirut University Col­lege, where Steen anq fellow educators Robert Polhill, Jesse Turner and Mithileshwar Singh were abducted two weeks ago, authenticated Steen's hand­writing. 
Steen is a communications instructor; Polhill, 53, of New York City, lectures on account­ing; Turner, 39, of Boise, Idaho, is a visiting professor of math­ematics and computer science; and Indian-born Singh, 60, ale­gal resident alien of the United States, is a visiting professor of finance. 
The three-page letter was delivered at midafternoon to the Beirut office of a Western news agency with a photograph of Steen, 8 hours before the death deadline. 
He warned the United States against attacking Lebanon "so that the lives of American citizens don't become jeopar­dized." 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
box number of a group calling itself the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The flyers were not legally stamped by the Office of Stu­dent Activities, he said. 
"I know for sure there's no way the Office of Student Af­fairs is going to allow (the group) any privileges" if it was responsible for the fraudulantly-stamped flyers. 
Gardiner said he received much support for his action on the proposal that he submitted last week. "All week I've received positive responses from students. I haven't received any negative response.'' 

Others objected, including Switek, who said, "I've received a lot of positive response on my action last week. 
"Their needs are already being met as it stands now and I don't see the purpose in as­king the administration to make an exception like this," he added. 
Student Senator Brian Holst urged the senate not to consider the proposal on the basis of whether or not the administa­tion is expected to pass it. "We can't be afraid to not support it because we're afraid the ad­ministration won't approve it," he said. 
When a movement passed to end discussion and vote on the proposal, Switek broke a tie by voting against it. 
Debate also continued on the proposed referendum to elec­tion ballots asking students to rate The Observer. Holst moved to add other questions to the referendum so as not to single out The Observer for criticism. 
"I don't think it's instructive 
as it is. I don't see a reason to 
insult them," he said. 
Gardiner suggested that the questionnaire be more posi­tively oriented. 
Switek, however, said staff members of The Observer weren't at all adverse to the proposed questionnaire rating the paper. 
When a movement was 
passed to vote on the proposal, 
the senate voted to keep the 
questionnaire as it stands on 
the ballot. 
The senate also voted with 
unanimous consent to accept a 
proposal as it stands for Soph­
omore Little Sibs Weekend. 
Dan Ripper, representative for 
the project, spoke to the senate 
on the proposal. 
"We've tried to do something 
remotely like this in the past 
three years, but there were 
problems with the administra­
tion. And the proposals, with 
the exception of last year's, 
weren't particularly thought 
out," Ripper said. 
Student Senator Pat Cook 
added, "It was tried before on 
a campus-wide scale and from 
what I understand there was 
mass confusion. There were 
tremendous problems." 
Ripper said the present pro­
posal and plans for the 
weekend are the product of 
committee research into the 
problems of the 1983 program 
and of interviews with rectors. 
"A wide majority were in favor 
of the program," Ripper said. 
"Students will be very care­
fully registered or the siblings 
won't be allowed to participate 
in the program," he said. 
''The student is going to have 
the responsibility for every ac­
tion the sibling takes, and in 
that way we can keep the prob­
lem of siblings getting out of 
hand to a minimum," Ripper 
explained. 
Restrictions on registration 
include a maximum participa­
tion of 150 siblings under the 
age of 15, and registration on a 
first-come first-serve basis 
subject to rector approval. 
Cook said that by contrast 
only 700 of the 900-1200 siblings 
who participated in the 1983 
program were registered, and 
the program as a result "was 
way out of hand." 
He said if the program runs 
smoothly this year, it can ex­
pand in the future. 



"ielVE_O_i_n_t____________
Tuesd-ay,Fe-bruar-y1o,1-987-p-age8 
Violating approved laws lessens public's trust 
Turn on the T.V., it's there; open up a magazine, it's there; why even page through the "Observer," it's there too! The "Iran-Contra" issue is everywhere. Unfortunately, most people have 15ecome so desensitized by this torrential flood of information, that they merely gloss over the "black and white" or disregard it all together. 
Jerry Duff 
guest column 
Are "we, the people," no longer in­terested with the knowledge explaining what our elected chief executive is doing for us. It would seem to me, that this information is probably paramount if not equal in importance when com­pared with headlines reading: "X" Died Doing "Y," Can Notre Dame Pull Off the Upset, or Will the Bull Market Continue? Furthermore, the media, for the first time in six years, has finally refused to buy another bottle of Ron's "snake-oil." They will settle for no less then "the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth." 
Why do they smell blood in the water? What makes Reagan's current stunt any different from the other ones he has pulled on the American public. TRUST! Integrity in a "rule of law." 
Take the Libyan bombing episode last spring for example. Reagan in­titiated the whole confrontation when he decided to declare us the world "terrorist-policeman." He manip­ulated the American public by "draw­ing a line" he knew the Libyands would cross. When they crossed it, he had "no choice." Either retaliate, or renig on his word. The best choice would have been to never "draw the line" by shut­ting his mouth, but the point is that he did it all out in the open. 
The "Iran-Contra" connection, however, was conducted under the (NSC) table. Our National Security Council (Purely an advisory agency), was not only formulating foreign policy, but executing it as well, without the approval of Congress. While carry­ing out these clandestine operations, at least two major laws were broken. First, the sale of weapons to Iran clearly violated the letter and intent of the Arms Export Act, which strictly prohibits the sale of arms to countries supporting terrorism. I imagine that Iran is £2 or £3 on that list. Second, there is no question that the use of monies, generated from the sale, to fund the military overthrow of the 
Doonesbury 
TH/5 6 50 £XCmNGf l!rlA61Nt M/3 BEING APPOINTEIJ 7lJ THe CAUFORNIA TA5K 
FORa ONSI3lF­
&5T/313M! "'­
Nicaraguan government violates the Boland Amendment, which was effec­tive through October 1, 1986. It stip­ulates that no military aid may be sent to the Contras in excess of the amount set by Congress. 
Beyond breaking the law, the "Iran­Contra" issue raises a very fundamen­tal question about our own rule of law: Is the president above the law? I agree that Lieut. Col. North, Mr. Reagan, and any others involved are innocent until proven guilty beyond a shadow of doubt. Unfortunately, the excuse the "I did it for all the right reasons," isn't going to wash as a shadow of doubt. Take me for example. If I go rob a bank and give the money to the needy and the hungry, I go to jail just the same. Why should the rules be changed for President Reagan or anyone else for that matter? Has the "Declaration of Independence" ideal of equality been rewritten to read: ''All men are created equal, but some men are more equal than others." Our country was founded on the basis of a supreme rule of law applying equally to all people, not being changed for one person merely because he broke it for the right reason. 
The other common rational given in defense of Reagan's "Iran-Contra" policy is that he didn't know. Again, I will resort to a simple analogy. If I am driving down the highway at about 80 mph and the state trooper pulls me over, the line "I didn't know the speed limit," isn't going to get me out of a ticket. As many people may remember from driver education "Ignorance of the law is no excuse." The same prin­ciple is at work here with respect to the president's responsibilities and duties. 
The key in both cases, however, amounts to the degree of accountability "we, the people," expect from the pres­ident. He was elected by us, in order to serve us. He does this by executing the laws enacted by Congress, with in our own rule of law, the Constitution. While executing these laws, he must ul­timately delegate authority to numerous subordinate administrators for the sake of effectiveness and effi­ciency. Regardless of this delegation of authority, the president is still solely responsible for any action taken by the subordinates as well as himself. If these policy initiatives and actions are carried out in violation of approved law, then the president has stopped ser­ving the American public. Whether the president knew about the specifics be­comes irrelevant because he is still solely responsible for overseeing the 
/A/HAT A C&REMCWY THAT WAS, 8.!J.! ITUJA5 W<t TH8HUMAN POTeNTIAl-MOV!iMt.NT'S lJECLAR: AT/a¥ OF 1Nt?ePENlJf3NC&, A FO!?MAL. USH&RJNG IN OF TH/3 N/3W AG/3! /Ale AU Fet.T 50 
CCNN/3CTW/ ""­
execution of the law. 
With the "Iran-Contra" incidents at hand, President Reagan claimed that mistakes were made. These mistakes amount to giving in to terrorist demands completely by trading weap­ons for hostages. We criticized the French and other European nations for "cutting deals" with terrorists in the past. Now they turn to us and ask, "isn't that kind of like calling the kettle black?" We want to stop terrorism, so we send the terrorists more weapons. Hmmm, makes sense, right? It's just a simple mistake. It also builds a lot of credibility with our allies, doesn't it? On the international level, more than just mistakes were made, trust in the United States has been lost. The "Iran­Contra" issue has made an utter fiasco out of our foreign affairs policies con­cerning terrorism. 
From the international perspective it becomes evident that more than just a law was broken. "We, the people," deserve more of an answer from our president than "Mistakes were made." Until he is candid enough to give us the full explanation, we must rely on the sixth sense interpretation of "the sharks." 
Jerry Duff is in the Freshman Year of Studies. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Responsible majority ~ able to end disrespect 
Dear Editor: 
Shame, shame on you Notre Dame! 
Despite a 50-year love affair with 
Notre Dame in general, its athletic pro­
gram in particular, I find it increas­
ingly difficult and embarassing to 
watch a Notre Dame game. 
The actions of the student body 
during and after the North Carolina 
game reached a new low in bad man­
ners and boorish behavior. 
Since the football team's victory over 
Ohio State in 1935, Notre Dame has 
more than its share of spectacular vic­
tories, including the '70 Cotton Bowl, 
'73 Sugar Bowl, '75 Orange Bowl, '79 
Cotton Bowl, '83 Liberty Bowl and 
numerous upsets of number one ranked 
basketball teams by Coach Phelps' 
squads. Thus, we cannot use the excuse 
that the novelty of the experience 
validates unconscionable behavior. 
According to reliable sources, much 
of the irrational behavior was 
premeditated by some, at least quasi-, 
official body, who put cardboard mis­
siles and racial and obscene written 
chants in the hands of juvenile minds 
who reacted predictably when given the 
opportunity to demonstrate "new" 
Notre Dame spirit. 
The follow-up of food fights and glass­
throwing at the evening meal gives fur­
ther proof that the Notre Dame student 
body mocks the claim that they are in­
telligent adults and should be treated 
as such. 
Trudeau 

IA/RIJN6, SMAKT 
IAIHY fJO I GUY! 5HI/?L IJJA5 KNOW 5HII?LtY VISITING REi.A­MAC/.A/Nt HAlJ T/Ve5 IN AN­
AHANfJ IN 000 ROM8 
AU THIS? THAT /?AY. 
~~~ s 
Equally distressing, as the actions of the 6th man at the game, were the TV interviews aired the next day and the Observer sports columns. 
Only Chris Bowler, the managing editor of the Observer, had the courage to express that the great victory of the basketball team was considerably marred by the actions of the "fans." 
Not one of the students interviewed on TV expressed any remorse about student behavior. All seemed to reflect the general attitude that as long as you win, anything is acceptable. 
I have sorrowfully witnessed over the years a breakdown in sportsmanship directed at opponents, officials and even our own players and coaches. 
In the not so long ago, when some idiots managed to circumvent the ad­mission standards of Notre Dame, we had two rather effective deterrents to handle their case. 
One was the Prefect of Discipline's Office, who would have had the first toilet paper thrower on the next vehicle out of town. 
A second enforcer would have been the responsible students, who I still feel are the majority, implementing the traditional lake treatment for those who embarass the rest of the student body. 
Since it is unlikely the administration will resume their rightful role in the administration of justice, perhaps the responsible students would resurrect a tradition that would be very effective, especially this time of year. 
Tom Fallon Men's Tennis Coach 
Quote of the day 

"If a cell, under appropriate con­ditions, becomes a man in a space of a few years, there can surely be no difficulty in understanding how, under appropriate condi­tions, a cell may, in the course of untold millions of years, give origin to the human race." 
Herbert Spencer 
(1820-1903) 
"Social Statistics, 

General Board 

Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ...............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor ..... , ............................ James Carroll
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and S!lint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1868 
-~---. ~ 
l
1


Accent 
Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 9 
A look at national defense 
Observer editor-in-chief interviews Secretary Weinberger 
vlnce them that they couldn'tJOE MURPHY make a successful strike and 

editor-In-chieF 
so they would be detered from doing lt.

T 
he following interview was 
"It Is always a difficult thing,

conducted at the Pentagon 
under that kind of a basic strat­

with Secretary of Defense 
egy, to figure how much Is

Caspar Weinberger and other 
enough. All we know Is that If

senior Defense Department we don't have enough, we
ofllclaLs shortly after the I DOth 
won't know It until It's too late

Congress began. The briefing to do anything about lt.
was attended by 10 college 
"And so we try to do what we

journalists {rom across the na­can to maintain the degree of
tion at the invitation of Secre­strength that will prevent
tary Weinberger. It Is the only anybody from attacking us.
such briefing the secretary has 
"During the 1970's, we went

given to college journalists 
down 20 percent, measured In

since he was appointed by real terms, over that whole de­
President Ronald Reagan in cade and that happened to
1981. 
coincide with the second de­Since submitting Its budget for 
cade of Soviet expansion and fiscal year 1988 to Congress so our ability to deter eroded on January 5, the Reagan ad­substantially during that per­ministration has been crltlzed Iod. for the size of Its defense "As we came Into office in Jan­budget and the policies and uary of 1981 we found that we priorities It reflects. had to do a very great deal. We 
Last week. a public debate had to modernize our triad of began within the administration strategic defenses, all at once, and on Capital Hill as to how, because It hadn't been moder­and when, a phased deploy­nized or even Improved for ment of the "Star Wars" anti­over 20 years. missile shield should begin. Hiler said, "There have been 
"We have a very limited two major goals of this admin­agenda. All we really want is to Istration. One has been the be left alone In peace and modernization of our strategic freedom and to have that for nuclear forces. our allies," said Secretary of "The administration has also 
Defense Caspar Weinberger. focused on Improving our con­
To achieve the secretary's ventional force structure. It agenda, the Reagan adminis­sought better people and gave tration has placed before our pilots and ground crews Congress a military budget of more practice time." $312 billion In fiscal year 1988 Weinberger said, "We also had and $332.4 billion In 1989. to build back our conventional 
Of that, $5.2 billion would go strength. We had to regain next year to the Strategic morale, We had almost Defense Initiative commonly everybody at my confirmations known as "Star Wars." hearings In 1981 Insisting we 
"We don't think we're In a needed a draft. situation where we are any way ther testing of SDI so that amount of money. We would federal budget," continued "The president and I were exhorbltant. We don't think we deployment can occur. much rather not have to, but Weinberger. strongly opposed to a draft are In a situation where the we don't know of any way the "The assumptions are that because of the way It practi­country can't afford lt. If we "In the area of SDI, I would we can reequip, modernize, inflation will run around three cally pulled the country apart In can't afford to keep our guess Congress will authorize and keep ready the forces that percent," said the defense sec­the VIet Nam years and we freedom, then we will be a very less than the administration we need to deter attack. It's retary, "so this runs around six wanted to make the volunteer different sort of country," requested," said Hiler. still only about six percent of percent nominal growth. We system succeed. Weinberger said. Mike Andrlcos, special assistant the Gross National Product. It have had, however, two years­"I think our greatest ac­
to the assistant secretary of used to be eight percent. In fiscal year 1986 and 1987 in complishment Is then to do 
In a phone Interview Friday, defense (legislative affairs), the 50's, it was about 12 to 14 which we went down. We not that. The all volunteer system Congressman John Hiler, D­said, "When Secretary percent of the Gross National only had no growth, but minus Is working extraordinarily well lnd., said, "The Defense De­Weinberger submits a budget, Product," said Weinberger. growth. now. We are now getting all of partment submitted a three he does not expect anything to 
"We shouldn't concentrate the people, and more, that we percent real Increase In spend­be cut. too much on percentage In­could use. We have waiting Ing, but will probably end up "The American people want a creases or dollar Increases. We lists. And we're getting very with a zero to one percent In­strong defense, not a frivolous have to look first of all as to high quality people now -98 or crease." Prospects for early defense," said Andrlcos. why we need a defense budget 96 percent high school deployment of SDI are not "I never try to guess what the at all which Is of course be­graduates. viewed as very probable. Mon­Congress is going to do. I'm cause of the basic threat to our "We are retaining 50 percent day, Secretary of State George nearly always wrong when I national Interests and our reenlistments after one year as Shultz said no decision would guess," said Weinberger who agenda. opposed to about .30 percent a be made over the next two said the need for their Pent­"We want to do things that few years ago. All of those sta­years concerning deployment: agon's requests are real. protect ourselves. We want to tistics are very encouraging however, Weinberger has said "The structure of the do things that prevent our and very good." the administration Is close to budget," said the defense sec­defense of the nation being To continue the moderniza­making just such a decision. retary, "Is Important. Pretty complicated by aggression. tion of the strategic systems 
In addition to disagreement close to half, 45 to 4 7 percent In the coming fiscal year, the "Essentially, we have the which Is about completed now within the administration, depending on the year, goes to Reagan administration has pro­same basic strategy adopted by and t9 regain some Increases strong opposition from personnel-salaries, retirement, posed spending $1.024 trillion, our country at least since WWII. In conventional strength, Democrats In Congress, espe­medical benefits, educational leaving a deficit of $107.8 bil­And that Is to be strong Weinberger has been staunchly cially from Senate Armed Ser­benefit-things that add to and lion. enough to deter an attack upon opposed to decreases In the vice Committee Chairman Sam are vital to the quality of life". 'The defense budget Is about us. defense budget. Nunn, D-Ga., exists. "The comparable figure In the 28 percent of the total budget "That Involves, In a sense, He says the money Is "mostly 
Nunn has threatened to with­Soviet military budget is about of the United States," said Sec­getting Into the minds of po­to add to the readiness of our hold funding for the shield If nine percent which says quite retary Weinberger. "That Is a tential enemies, primarily the forces. It does not Increase the administration adopts a alot about the differences be­great deal less than It was in Soviet Union, and trying to fig­forces. 
broad Interpretation of the tween the societies." the 60's. And a great deal less ure the degree of retaliatory "The force strength remains 1972 Anti-Bdlllstlc Missile "So (the Defense Department) than the 50's when it was actu­capability after they would 
continued on page 10

Treaty which would permit fur-does have to have a very large ally over 55 percent of the make a strike that would con­


Accent 
Weinberger 
continued from page 9 
or three years with some in­creases in the Navy as more ships come on line and need to be manned." 
Hiler said disagreement exists over the need for an­other air craft carrier for the Navy. 
Weinberger said each air craft carrier costs $1.8 to $2.0 billion. 
The administration also is asking for $600 million to cor­rect problems which have emerged in its new BIB strate­gic bomber. 
The BIB and the "Stealth" Advanced Technology Bomber are viewed by the administra­tion as important parts of fu­ture U.S. defense posture. 
The extent of the BIB's electronic, flight control, radar and missile-launching equip­ment problems is a matter of debate; however, the its sup­porters admit serious problems exist. 
Weinberger also noted the Air Force would consolidate some units used for non-nuclear con­flicts. The move was made to reduce costs, but critics say nuclear weapons are consum­ing an Increasingly larger role within the Air Force at the ex­pense of conventional forces. 
Officials at the Pentagon are quick to note that substantial efforts have been made to prevent defense contracting fraud and cite the Packard Commission and the creation of new purchasing oversight procedures. 
"The horror story effect, " as Andrlcos calls it. In most cases involving contract fraud, Andricos said it is defense auditors who discover the abuses and correct them. 
Weinberger defines the budget as making, "substantial allocations, after a couple of years of drought, to research and development, and invest­ments in the future so that we can try and make sure that we have applied the latest and the best technology to the people in uniform who defend us." 
He also noted the United States 
was not the first to begin ex­
amining an SDI program. 
"The Soviets have been 
working for 17 years, at least, 
on a strategic defense system," 
Weinberger said. 
He said the administration 
saw a need to act in the area 
of space-based defenses. 
relatively level for the next two 





The 0 ther sI.de 
JOE MURPHY 
edltor-in-c.hief 
T 
he Soviet threat has b~.en the main concern of the United States and its allies since the end of World War 11. 
"The Reagan administration has adopted a peace through strength approach. They ~ry to bring the Soviets to agree to agreements by this approach," said U.S. Congressman John Hiler, D-lnd. 
"The Soviets must believeo that it is their interests to negotiate. They must be per­suaded that the United states is dynamic, and that the Congress is not going to negate our ideas," said Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Frank Gaffney. 
He said, "History has sugges­ted that when we have superi­ority, the Soviets are anxious to negotiate anything to restrain us until they can catch up. 
"If they do not believe we are willing to take the necessary steps, then there is little to believe they will negotiate an arrangement. 
"That's what we have started after the president's speech in 1983. (The Soviets) are, in some respects, farther along than we are in laser work, in some of the directed energy physics, and some areas be­cause of the technology they have stolen from us. 
"But they do not have and they are not ready to deploy, so far as we know, a truly stra­tegic defense system. A strate­gic defense system would be a very effective, thoroughly reli­able (system) that would block and destroy missiles before they hit targets on earth. 
"We are getting close to the point where we would even be able to deploy such a system," Weinberger said. 
Weinberger says the Soviets have already violated the ABM Treaty, and does not see why the United States should be held bound to a strict interpre­tation of it. 
Assessing the Soviet threat 
Missile Production 
USSR and NATO' 

Critics state the Reagan ad­ministration is overexaggerat­ing the Soviet military threat. 
They cite the administrations suggestions that the Soviets were ready to invade Iran. 
"The invasion of Iran would be an exceedingly low­confidence affair for the Soviets -a fact that I believe they have known for roughly 40 years," wrote Joshua Epstein, research associate at the Brookings In­stitute, in his just-published book, "Strategy and Force Plan­ning --The Case of the Persian Gulf." 
"The purpose of arms control is not an end in Itself, but a means to an end. Arms control must enhance our security. There are cases in which weap­ons systems enhance that se­curity without lending them­selves to arms control," said Gaffney. 
"We hope to move the Soviets 
from popularly-seductive 
proposals to those that can be 
verified," said Gaffney. 
"The issue of verification is a 
real problem," he continued, 
"but even if there were not 
testing verification problems, as there are, the United States ·could not stop testing as long 
the safety of our allies required 
these weapons." 
Gaffney said the administra­
tion wants arms-control agree­
ments that are constructive, 
creative, and verifible. 
The coordinated policy which the administration developed to flght the spread of Soviet influence is known as the "Reagan Doctrine." 
This doctrine calls for U.S. support of the anti-communist insurrections in Nicaragua, An­gola, Afghanistan, and Cam­bodia. 
"The Administration has been consistent in implementing the Reagan Doctrine," said Hiler. 
Fred Smith is the deputy as­sistant secretary of defense (acting) for policy analysis in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, International Security Affairs. 
"Low intensity conflicts," Smith said, "refer to the con­flicts in Africa, Asia, and in­dudes insurgencies. This is the most difficult type of conflict because it is difficult to reach a consensus." 
Smith said Central America is the most publicized, but least understood region of the globe. 
He said the administration pursue the "Four D's" in this region. 
The first is "democracy." 
"In this regard, we are tremendously encouraged. In 198L 16 totalitarian regimes existed. Since 1981, 1 0 of these have made democratic transitions," said Smith. 
"In 1979, the last year of the Somoza regime, there were 7, 000 Nicaraguan troops. Today, there are 75,000. Then, rlicaraguan had three tanks; today, 150," said Smith. 
"Compared to the inventories of other countries, Nicaragua has far more tanks and weap­ons than they need," Smith said. 
The second goal is "develop­ment." 
"For every dollar in security assistance, the United States sends four dollars in economic development. The root cause of revolution is economic tur­moil," siad Smith. 
The third goal is "dialogue." 
The Contradora document, signed by 12 foreign ministers with only Nicaragua refusing to sign, Smith said, is a testament to the dialogue the United States has promoted in Central America. 
The final goal is "defense." 
"These offer areas could not develop wUhout a security shield," said Smith. 
"If there is any success story of the 1980's, it is El Sal­vador," said Smith. "While not all of the problems have been solved, President Duarte deserves a great deal of credit. The human rights abuses have stopped," he emphasized. 
The Middle East, though, poses different problems for American foreign policy ex­perts, Smith said. 
"In the Jran-Traq War, the official policy is that we are neutral. We don't want a victory by either side. If Iran loses, greater instability and Soviet involvement is possible," Smith said. 
Smith noted the United States does not have diplomatic relations with Iran. "Iraq would settle the war to­morrow, but as long Khoumeini is around, we prob­ably won't see any change," Smith said. 
Smith also defended the ad­ministration's policies in the Middle East, but called for "a disclosure of what's happened" in the Iran-Contra affair and "taking positive steps to see that it does not happen again." 
"I hope (the Iran-Contra 
revelations) won't have any af­
fect at all," said Defense Secre­
tary Caspar Weinberger on the 
DOD's proposed $312 million 
budget for fiscal year 1988. 
"Neither of them affect the moral of the military and they don't reduce the threat against the Soviets," Weinberger said. 
But Hiler said, the credibility of the administration's policy on terrorism has been damaged. "The administration had made a great deal of prog­ress until Iran. It's going to have to get its credibility back," said the Indiana congressman. 
Regarding the administra­tion's fleet movements in the Mediterranean of recent weeks, Hiler said he didn't know the full details of the U.S. show of strength off Lebanon. 
Hiler said, "It was probably to send a signal to Iran not to get out of hand. 
"There is some saber-rattling going on. It is difficult to un­derstand what the purpose was." 


~-------·--.-.._....._.....---·~--------.r-
Tuesday, February 10, 1987-page 10-11 

Aerial photo of the Pentagon, outside Washington D.C. Kenneth Carter 
The heart of our defense nerve center 
JOE MURPHY editor-In-chief 
maglne the phone bills. 
Each day, over twice the population of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student body works Inside the Pentagon. 
Approximately 2.3,000 people log over 200, 000 phones call per day there. 
The Pentagon Is the one of largest oflce buildings In the world. 
The Pentagon Is headquarters of the Depart­ment of Defense which Is headed by a civilian Secretary of Defense. 
Since 1981, the head of the DOD has been Caspar Weinberger. 
On the other side of the 
Is the State Depart­

headed by George Shultz. 
The two men are different In 
but share the same goals. say DOD aides. 
Weinberger, said a young Pentagon Intern, who Is spend­Ing her time analyzing video tapes of his public remarks, Is "much cooler than George Schultz." 
Weinberger never gets flus­tered and he handle reporters very well, she said. 
Recently, the two men and the departments they represent have been viewed as at odds over many Issues concerning 
U.S. foreign policy. The New York Times ran a front-page story Monday with Shultz by quoted as contradicting Weinberger on deploying ele­
ments of the Strategic Defense 
lntiatlve. 
DOD officials, however, deny 
the conflicts exists to the 
degree portrayed In the press. 
"It's overblown," said Fred 
Smith "We work very closely 
with the State Department. We 
work on a day to day basis with 
the State Department. There's 
alot of cross-Information. Mili­
tary officers work In all of the 
bureaus of State," said Smith. 
Much of the confusion con­
cerning the position of the two 
cabinet officials results, DOD 
aides say, from the complex 
crosscurrents which charac­
terize Washington, D.C. 
And DOD aides think Congress will be much more willing to support the military proposals than some critics think. 
"In an average year, Secre­tary Weinberger appears before congressional committees about 20 times," said Mike Andricos, special assistant to the assistant secretary of Defense (legislative affairs). 
"We send 16, 000 to 18, 000 papers ofjustification to the Hill per day," said Andricos. 
"When we work with Congress, we have to take the time to explain the details," said Andricos. 
With so many people and so much paperwork. there are bound to be some communica­tion problems which lead to press stories of disagreement. said a DOD aide. 


A beehive of activity 
The Pentagon 
The Pentagon, headquarters of the Department of Defense, is one of the world's largest office buildings. It is virtually a city in itself, housing more than 23,000 people. 
The building was built in the remarkably short time of 16 months and was completed on January 15, 1943, at an approximate cost of $83 million. It consolidated 17 buildings of the War Department. 
Tota1land area (acres) 
583 

Origina11and cost 2,245,000 
Area covered by Pentagon bldg (acres) 
29 

Parking space (acres) 
67 

Capacity (vehicles) 9,849 
Gross floor area (sq. ft.) 6,546,360 
Net space for offices, concessions and storage (sq. ft.) 3,705,793 
Length of each outer wall (ft.) 
921 

Height of building (ft.) 


Tota11ength of corridors (miles) 17% 
OASD(PA) 
-


,___,_..,______________ 
The Observer Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 12 
Comr-uter Science & MIS Students 


SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 

he rush of 
right credentials for 
adrenaline. The ACCENT. 
surge of excite­If you're a highly­
ment. The flash motivated person, an in­of inspiration. Familiar dependent worker, and feelings to talented DP an innovative thinker, professionals at The you have the right chem­Travelers. And to the Istry for ACCENT. promising graduates Now make the right 
who'll join us this year. 
You've discovered these feelings in your academic work. Recognized them in the elegance of advanced technology. And now you can share in them at The Travelers, where the support is stronger, the environment more sophisticated and the applications more challenging. 
As a distinguished Computer Sci­ence or MIS graduate, you now have a difficult decision to make about your future. That's why we created ACCENT. A fast-paced, competitive program. Offering technical and management training through a diverse range of assignments leading to key professional positions. 
All in one of the most advanced DP environments in the financial services industry-including the largest IMS shop, 18 IBM mainframes and a 36,000 terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of DP technology doesn't stop tfiere. We've recently installed 13,000 IBM PCs, integrated the latest 4th generation languages, and we're developing our future leaders with ACCENT. 
If you have a degree in computer sci­ence, MIS or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­gramming experience, you have the 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. 
move. To The Travelers ACCENT pro­gram. Where you'll find varied and valuable learning experiences. A sup­portive human environment and a sophisticated technical one. And where you'll find plenty of opportunities to help move you ahead. 
You'll also receive a competitive sal­ary, complete benefits and even an IBM PC AT to take home with you. Plus gen­erous relocation assistance to our H:artford, Connecticut home office. 
So, if you're a bright and talented computer-oriented major, join The Travelers. Where the accent is on you and the inspiration is shared by all. 
Find out ~ore a.~out signing up for The Travelers Interview scnedule. Recruiters will be on campus Friday, February 27. Or, send your resume to: Priscilla Pellett, 30-CR, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
Data Processing for Dedicated People. 
TheTraveler~ 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

-

Business 
Tuesday, February 10,1987 -page 13 
Munchy Co. gets approval but won't resume operations 
By JEFF HEILERT Business Writer 
After two months of negotia­tion with the University admin­istration, the three founding members of the Munchy Company have received Uni­versity approval to continue operation. But the long delay has made the venture un­profitable, according to the founders. 
The Munchy Company is an on-campus delivery service which provides a wide range of snack foods, according to Robert Very, one of the founders. 
Very said the problems the company encountered, which began after only a week of op­eration, stemmed from the dorm rectors who felt that the Munchy Company was compet­ing with their own food sales. The administration sent a sur­vey to the rectors who voted unanimously to end the compa­ny's competition with dorm food sales, according to Very. 
At this point, John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life, requested a written proposal from the Munchy Company explaining their entire plan of operation, said Very. 
The three members of the Munchy Company then carried on discussions with the admin­istration regarding their plan. 
The day before Christmas break, the company received a letter from Goldrick which stated that approval was granted to the Munchy Compa­ny, said Very, but ten restric­tions were listed. 
These restrictions included that the Munchy Company had to have an office outside of their residence hall, send let­ters to all distributors explain­ing that the Munchy Company is not a University enterprise, and aquire two insurance policies to cover inventory and liabilities. Frank Angelle, also a company founder, said these insurance costs amounted to about $60 per month. 
After receiving this restricted approval, the found­ing members decided against operating this semester. "After making all the initial in­vestments, the Munchy Com­pany would begin making money at about the time we graduate," said Very. 
Therefore, the three founders said they are looking to sell the company to a group of younger students either this year or next year. 

The Observer is now recruiting tor the following positions: 
Business Page Writers 
Interested applicants should contact Eric Scheuermann at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune or by phone at 239-7 471. 
Office space is still available in LaFortune Student Center for the company to use, if it is started up again by potential buyers. According to the Munchy Company, the buyers would be able to begin opera­tion in about a week. 
Angelle said, "Phone order­ing is the big market area for the future. Customers enjoy the convenience of delivery." 
The purchase price of the Munchy Company is negoti­able, but the original members want a percentage of the profits in the future. Very said, "We still want to be part of the com­pany; it is just unfortunate that we are seniors." 
NORTH CAROLINA vs. NOTRE DAME 
BIG GAME-BIG MONEf_.~"-· 
• TV Network fee $80-000­$100,000 
• Single-game revenue $48,000 :li!r:i: from regular patrons i,i :;, (includes fraction of !<''1 season ticket sales) 
• Single game revenue $15,000 from student season tickets 
Notre Dame's TOTAL game income: 
$143,000-$163,000 
Soume: Roger Vildl~~erri, Sporta lnformauon Obaetver Graphic. Geoffrey Sauer 
Computers don't solve everything 
The last few years have been filled with a lot of talk about how great computers are. They've been compared with everything from geniuses to Men of the Year. INC. Mag­azine, on the other hand, has made a list of what the miracle machines can't do for you: 
• A computer will not solve broad prob­lems that are poorly defined. The user has 
Alex VonderHaar 
Business Bits 
to understand exactly what problem he wants the device to solve. 
• 
A computer can't save money by elim­inating workers. "The cost of automation is rarely offset by reduced payroll expenses," said Tom Christo, a New Hampshire attor­ney. Instead, computers can create new ways of doing things, such as moving out invoices and payments more quickly. 

• 
A computer won't clean up errors made by hand. This goes back to the GIGO rule. If you put Garbage In, then you're going to get Garbage Out. "Computers are fast and accurate," said Richard Raysman, another lawyer. "But if you give them bad informa­tion, they'll get you into trouble much faster than a manual system will." 


• 
A computer won't do short-term sales forecasting. It is able, however, to look at longer term historical trends and make predictions from these. 

• 
A computer cannot solve problems that call for subjectivity. For example, compan­ies who hire on campus probably won't use a machine to fish from a stack of resumes. If they did, an important question would remain unanswered: Do we like the appli­cant? 

• 
A computer won't solve all your schedul­ing problems in production. "You have to come up with the details," according to an educational director at one dealer. You have to tell it, for instance, how long it will take for a shipment to arrive. 

• 
A computer's software will not accept changes made by amateurs. This one is for those of you who are planning to rely on your friend, the ace hacker. If you want your plumber to wrench around with packaged software, "There's always a reaction to changes and you never know what it's going to be," comments Christo. 


• A computer won't always be right. Sys­
. terns can produce errors, for example, when circuitry is faulty or when programs aren't fully debugged. John King, a leading re­searcher, points out that "before you get de­pendent on the system, you'd better make sure it works." 

ON CAMPUS • IN TOWN • ACROSS THE USA 
The Notre Dame Credit Union has joined the CIRRUS national network of 24-hour teller machines. 

You can use your Notre Dame Credit Union ATM Card or the A TM Card of any financial on the Sears network: 
* On campus, at the A TM located at the Bus Stop *When you travel, at over 10,000 CIRRUS ATM locations *Right here in town, at any financial institution with a CIRRUS 
machine. The Notre Dame Credit Union A TM card is convenient, easy to use, and just one of the many benefits of belonging to the Notre Dame 
Credit Union. 
P4. NOTRE DAME 239-6611 
!Jm VlsS!e9r[~~J2~ity of Notre Dame 
RESUMES 
A\Q)\\t#@wm®
=--==.-=:::......::::::....:~=:::::.. I 
the Notre Dame Advertising Network, is introducing a new resume service here on campus! 
• 
professionally typeset resumes 

• 
printed on top-quality paper 

• 
next-day service 

• 
matching stationery available 


• incredibly low prices 
For more information, call Adworks at 9-ADWORKS (239-6757) or stop by the Office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 14 



Sports Briefs 
The ND women's soccer club will have an indoor practice tomorrow at 11 p.m. in the ACC. Players should meet inside Gate 4. Also, there will be a scrimmage against Saint Mary's Thursday at 9 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club men's team wants any men interested in rowing to report to the Rockne first floor weight room today at 4 p.m. No experience necessary. Be prepared to run. For more information contact Tom at 2350. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
SAB Broomball Pairings for the tournament today are as follows: 
Stepan Field 1 
Tom Mich vs .. Tom Pigott, 3:30p.m. Home Boys vs. Phallic Symbols, 4 p.m. Ben Wa vs. Gerbels, 4:30p.m. Turtle Avengers vs. Zeppelin Reunion, 5 p.m. Comemierdas vs. Let's Get Wide, 5:30p.m. 814 Nutscratchers vs. The House, 6 p.m. 
Stepan Field 2 
The Subhumans vs. The Hardbodies, 4 p.m. He Man vs. F'an Club, 4:30p.m. Love Muscles vs. War Pigs, 5 p.m. Brideswines vs. Motley Crue Trojans, 5:30p.m. Crack Addicts vs. Lee's, 6 p.m. 
Stepan Field 3 
My Nipples vs. Michelob Lives, 4 p.m. Beauties & The Beast vs. Albert's Girls, 4:30p.m. Supply Side Advocates vs. Cold Busted, 5 p.m. Barely Eligibles vs. Five Long Handles, 5:30p.m. Brigham Young vs. Soixante-Neuf, 6 p.m. 
Reagan lauds Conner, Cup 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Stars & Stripes crew brought the America's Cup to the White House on Monday, where Pres­ident Reagan ribbed a trium­phant Dennis Conner as the first man to lose sailing's prized trophy and praised him as the first to win it back. 
A beaming Reagan and skip­per Conner hoisted aloft the 136-year-old, ornate silver prize as Conner's 11-man crew and Vice President George Bush looked on. 
"Today the cup that went Down Under has come back up," Reagan boasted of the Feb. 4 recapturing of the trophy Conner lost to Australia in 1983. 
The Obse111er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
PREGNANT? Happy, loving, financially secure couple eager to adopt infant. Con­fidential, legal. Expenses pd. Call Meg collect 513-271-7526. 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277­7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
BED AND BREAKFAST available for NO Junior Parents Weekend. Two night minimum; 10 mins. from campus. 272-5640 
Resort Hotels, Cruiselines, Airlines, Amusement Parks, NOW accepting ap­plications. For more information and an application; write: National Collegiate Recreation Service, P.O. Box 8074, Hil­ton Head, S.C. 29938 
TTYPINOOICTATION­PROFESSIONALL Y HANDLED 259­2334 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: DESIGN OF MACHINE ELE­MENTS a Lt. Gray ME book and 3 spiral notebooks on Feb. 2, noon, North Dining Hall. If found call Marc x2056. 
LOST: Keys'lost at the North Carolina game. 5 large keys and 1 small key. If found PLEASE call 2690. 
LOST: Men's Class Ring. Initials inside -JPK '88-. Lost last Wednesday night be­tween bookstore and Senior Bar. Please contact if you find it. Phone-1222 and ask for John. Thanks. 
FOUND: One gold earing with blue stripes in Morrissey Hall early Saturday morning. Call £3470 to claim. 
Whoever took a royal blue Gerry ski jacket at Theodore's last Friday could you please call me or return it, my ID is in the pocket. Thanks. 
LOST: CALC 106 BOOK IN 1 t 5 O'SHAG ON FRI 1!.3Qo87 IF FOUND CALL BILL P. X 1165 
LOST-BLUE ID HOLDER WLICENSE,ID, ETC IN SR BAR AREA ON WED NITE PLEASE CALL 284-5048 IF FOUND 
lost navy blue aportcoat missing after dance at Knollwood C.C. Sat. night lnltlala-ACW on bottona love to have It back 287·5903 
HELPIII I LOST MY 5-SUBJECT NOTEBOOK IN EITHER THE C.S.C. OR THE A.C.C. ON WEDNESDAY FEB. 4. IT IS YELLOW AND CONTAINS THE SUBJECTS-MARKETING, COM­PUTERS, LOGIC, ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE. PLEASE RETURN IT OR I FAIL THISSEMESTER.OKAYI'LLGIVE YOU A REWARDIIIIIIIII CALL TOM AT 283-4605. 
FOR RENT 
house wtoom wtloor W'Windows wiled but no sheets 234-7654 
................................................................ 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-800-237-2061 
Need ride to IU Bloomington or vacinity Feb 13, returning Feb 15. Will pay for gas. Call Adam at 4009. 
I NEED A RIDE TO CINCINNATI ON FEB. 12 OR 13. MARTY 2937 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, Asia. All fields. $900-2000 mo.Sightseeing.Free info.Write IJC, PO BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
Want to buy a MACINTOSH. Call Erin 272-2357. 
TWO NEED RIDE TO TEXAS FOR SPRING BREAK FINAL DESTINATION IS MEXICO MORE THAN WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES CALL 2778 OR 1616 
TELEMARKETING 
Earn and have tun. 
Hours are Monday and Tuesday, 5 pm 
to 10 pm., Sunday, 11 am to 7 p.m. 
Good pay, short to indefinite positions. 
Immediate openings. 
MANPOWER 
Temporary staff specialists 
320 W. LaSalle 
234-0157 
Need ride to Ann Arbor for 2-13 Call Mary 3474 
FOR SALE 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today I Call 1-312-7 42-1142, Ext. 7316. 
ROUNDTRIP AIRFARE: SB­Tampa,314-31.12.$200.Call Gordo, 1666.· 
2 AIRTIX: INDY-FT.LAUD MAR11-22 $200 each. Call x3711 in pm. 
Famous Name, High Style Timepieces w-tl high cost. Warranties. Write FATHER TIME, P.O.Box 1005 So.Bend, IN 46224 for free info. 
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY: 3 BR HOUSE 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS FOR SALE. RENOVATED, POSITIVE CASH FLOW FROM MONTH ONE. CALL 239-5303 FOR INQUIRY. ~ 
4SALE-ROUND TRIP TIX IN US ON UNITED-$250-CALL£3763 
TICKETS 
Need Tickets Deaparataly to Duke bas· ketball game. Either student or GA'a. Call Eric at 272·9123. 
I need two DUKE GAs. Mike 288 -9483 
will pay $100 for 2 Duke GA. 239-5266, 277-8697. 
Help I God will strike me dead if I don't raise $2 million or get 4 Duke tlxl Andy 1650 
MOM AND DAD WILL PAY$$$ FOR 2 DUKE GA'S:CALL TIM 1372 
NEED DUKE GA'S WILL TAKE ANY NO. WILL PAY$$$ CALL STEVE £2180 
I NEED GA AND STUD TIX FOR THE DUKE GAME. PLEASE CALL ANN 284­5454. 
I have $, but do not have 2 DePaul GAs. Could you help me achieve equi­leeeebrium? Please call Bill x1460. 
Druid needs Duke GAs Andy 1650 
NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. 
I DESPERATELY NEED TWO DUKE GAs PARENTS ARE COMING FROM CALI­FORNIA BIG MONEY PLEASE CALL JOHN x1158 
$$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEED DUKE TIX FRIENDS COMING FROM FAR AWAY PLACES CALL X4045 IIIII 
UP TO 6 DUKE GA-STEPHX3944 
I NEED GA'S FOR THE DUKE GAME. MARTY 2937 
I Need 2 Duke GA's, Desperately. Col­leen 233-9806. 
Need GA tix for Duke game.Big Bucks. Call 284-4366; 239-6734; or 283-3854. 
will pay $75.00 for 2 stud. tix to Duke and DePaul. Call 616 782-8494 after 6 
HELP!II Loyal sons need seven Duke 
G.A.s and one student ticket for DadFest 87 .... $Will pay$ Call 277-7547. 
NEEDED 2 DUKE STUD TIX OR GA'S CALL PETE AT 2029. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH • STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME. 
Last Chance For Spring Break '871 South Padre Island, Daytona Beach, Steamboat Springs, Miami Beach/ Fort Lauderdale, Mustang Island! Port Aransas, Galveston Island and Fort Wal­ton Beach. Call Sunchase Tours Central Spring Break Toll Free Hot Line Today for last minute information and reserva­tions 1-800-321-59111 
APPLICATIONS FOR SAB POSITIONS available on 2nd floor LaFortune applications due Feb. 13; tor more In­to., atop by SAB office 
................................................................ 
Katie, You are the ultimate I Rob 
TOP GUN 
TOM CRUISE 
TOP GUN THURS AND SAT 7:30 AND 10:00 SMC, CARROLL AUD. TOP GUN 
BIG APPLE WHO LOVES N.Y. I LOVE N.Y. DO YOU LOVE N.Y. BIG APPLE 
BIG APPLE BROADWAY MADISON AVE 42ND ST 
BLOOMINGDALE$ 
BIG APPLE 
BIG APPLE 
WHO LOVES N.Y. 
BIG APPLE 
Need 2 Duke Student! Tix or GA's. Call Pete at 2029 
Ride needed to Chicago Feb.13 morning or early afternoon. Call Rachael at 284­5181. 
ND-SMC SUMMER PROGRAMS 
LONDON (M,•Y 2o-JUNE 19) ROME 
(JUNIE 14-JULY 13) 
TRAVEL 
IREL,SCOT,EI~G,FR,GER,SWITZ,ITALy 
NINE COLLEGE COURSES AVAIL­ABLE MEETINIG FEB 24, 7:00PM, CAR­ROLL HALL SMC; PASSPORT PIC­TURES AVAIL.ABLE, FOR INFO, CALL PROF A.A. Bl-ACK 284-4460 OR 272­3726 
DO ME againl! DOME shirts are backll Watch for mom info ..... 
Need ride to Indianapolis far 213. Call Teresa x1618 
SENIORS SENIORS Last chance to be involved.Help c1ut with Senior Month ...the best month of your , young adult lives.lnterestecl persons should attend a meeting W19d,Feb 11 ,9:00,Senior Bar.Call Lea(3J19) or Gordo(1666) if you are unable to make it. 
The Observer is looking for BAR and RESTAURANT reviewers. Reviewers are reimbursed for reviews. Contact Mary Jacoby at 239··5313 or 272-3833. 
0 inter varsity is not a sports clubl if in­terested in int19r varstiy christian fellow­ship contact Karel at 287-6513 or Mic­helle x2789. 
SMOKE FRC)M NOWHERE: NO'S ONLY HEAVY METAL band (sorry Marauder), at THEODORE'S on Monday, February 9th. BE THERE I 
THE YEILLOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight daily Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free 
1111 March 1. 272-4453 
THANK YOU ST.JUDE 
BP SI~IRIT WEEKIIIII 
BP SI~IRIT WEEKIIIII 
BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII 
BP SPIRIT WEEKIII TONITE:HAVE SPIRIT! HAVE FUNI SECTION OLYM· PICS TONITEI GET PSYCHED BPERSIII 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR PRAYERS AMSWERED. 
DllUIDS UNITE The High Season is at hand WORSHIP ... 
Needed ride to Cleveland this weekend 0213 -0215 will share costs call Tim -3231 
LIKE, FER SURE-Yes, I have two BEACH BOYS tickets. Do you? I'll sell you my lower arena seats (sec7, row 2) for face valuellllll Call 288-1941 & ask for Liz-Dog or Ei-Dog. 
Hey Greco-Roman wrist wrestler, Thanks for a wonderful weekend. Love you. 
A.N. alias "Bright Eyesl" Sorry I missed your ad, I'm >!lad the flowers made you smile, but you still look down sometimes. Who am I? At the 'Willie Wonks" movie, I sat right behind you. I'd like to say 'hello' 
K.M. alias "Hopeless Romantic!" 
NO Volleyball crushed the pros. 
The Generic Greeting: Hi SMC Peoples that we know so well Rob, George, Todd, Greg 
Hi staph, huggie, walshy, di, nettie, jules, jen One totally radical basil 
RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO FEB. 13 MORNING OR EARLY AFTERNOON CALL RACHAEL AT 284-5181. 
RIDE NEEDED TO CINCINNATI FEB. 13 CALL CHRISTINE 284-4341 
Thanks St. Jude, keep up the good work. 
To the guy wothe royal blue Lands End jacket & blue&orange Florida Gators cap in the bookstore 1:15 yesterday:who are you? From the blonde in the next line. Reply here. 
LONELY? Don't get enough letters from home? If you don't mind misspelled words & have an interest in: HORROR 
H.P.L. Travesty of lila Spagettl Wea· li1rna Humor Then correspond with: Bart 4107 Tara ct. Albuq. NM 87111 
Don't get enough letters from home? If you don't mind misspellings and have an interest in: Horror, H.P. Lovecraft, humor, Travesty of Life and Spagetti Westerns correspond with: Bart 41 07 Tara ct. Albuq. NM 87111 
where are NU? NU are lost without NU NU must call at 277-8940. 
RIDE NEEDED: U. OF ILLINOIS FEB. 13-15 SHARE$$$$ CALL LYNN 3021 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1••·•••••••••••••••ooo 
NASHVILLE BUDS: 
Clara, Ed, Marilyn 
& What's His Name 
Best 24 Hour road trip evert Burger 
King,"POP-U-LAR-IT-Y", ceramic turtles, 
Capitol Building urinals, Dykes In the Der­
riere, slice of Americana diner, parallel 
parking, Jimmy the bouncer, "Under the 
Boardwalk" (wl Rizzo and the Brady 
Kids), Bucket-a-Beer, and more. (The 
rest is on tape.) Get ready to relive it 
Wed. Nlte. 
NEEDED: ONE STUDENT TICKET for DUKE -Lower Arena -Call Jeanie at 277-4281 or 239-7668 
Dear Sharon,John,Missy,Michelle,and Magoo: Sorry(?) about the reimage. The Fun Bunch ...... P.S. M¢M, same time next weekend? 
DAVE SHEARON! DAVE SHEARON! DAVE SHEARON! DAVE SHEARON! HELLO I 
Booger, here's a quick birthday quiz for you: How did you get involved with Judine? 
Attn MK: Rules for a Happy Birthday: £1 employ a reliable and discrete answering servic. 
Mary A. I am from Keenan, you know not my name But I am a guy and you are a dame. I hope that your day is happy and fine For I am your secret Valentine Y.S.V. 
Need a ride to Purdue for St. Valentine's weekend. Can leave Fri. after 5:00 or Sat. morning. Please call 272-8617. 
Question of the day--MARK NEMEK, who hit you in the nose?? Well, we hope you hit him back and that he looks at least as bad as you dol li-The Lost Triple 
Similey,J.V. Have a great day on your 20th birthday I will see you later on tonight. Love,J. V. 
Our little RATI Is N-N-N-NINETEENIII 
SMED-DOG AND LIZ-DOG 

WE HEARD THAT EILEEN-DOG AND 
COMPANY MESSED-UP THE COUCH I 
BUT WHAT WAS THAT ABOUT 
BEARD BURN ON THE TUMMY?? 

-The Kids 
It you're worried about your future, HEAVY METAL is making a comeback! Love, Debbie, Allison and Monika 
DEAD CUPID DEAD CUPID KILL PAS­SION NO RED NO ROMANCE NO HEART-ON SEX ONLY DEAD CUPID 
BUSINESS TYPES: The Observer is looking for students who can write commentary or analysis of business-related issues or events. It you are interested in writing, contact Jim Riley at 239-5313. 
Theology Majors and Minors: Please attend an Important planning and lnlonmatlon gathering session of the Theology Forum on Wednsday, February 11 at 6:30 P.M. In 341 O'Shaghneaay. 
MARIANNE, Your bear is safe for now. Give your search a rest or the bear will rest in pieces. Follow the future instruc­tions to the letter if you want to see him again. CUBNAPPER 
............................. 

CAPTAIN KOSHER--Patience is a virtual 
When you get paper airplanes at basket­ball games, does it make you wonder Dionne? I do and wouldn't mind if we had ducks from the lake anytime. Call me.. the doll from Oklahoma 
we need a date, It's not too late, We, Howard's homeless, Soon to be Domeless, Would like your help. Our SYR on Valentine's Day, Will be no fun unless girls come our way. Take your time to apply, Room 421, PLEASE stop by, Or call x2467. For your one night In heaven! 
BO,ML,CG,BH,PC,EB,EZ,DG,JF,MB,R?, We thought y'all could use a little help! L&K 
Ride or riders needed: Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 13-15 Call Sara SMC 5214 
Gold mines, Rie Rie, Maggot, (the love toys)& Chard Lets get hot & Sweaty again real soon. For next time; Laura-bring your stopwatch (only one an hour) Rie Rie-bring grover and a good nights sleep Maggot-Lots of t.p. Chard-Some dry wood I'll bring my sexy outfit and Iota of paper towels 
Love you guys! Buffy-€1izardbreathklr Claire to my friends. 
TONY RICE The Duke game­same place as before­1'11 wave if you'll wink­How about it?? -Legs P.S. thanks for the phone calli 

I NEED TIX FOR DUKE III MY BROTHER GUTI IS COMING OUT FROM JERSEY. CALL THE SLOTH AT 4010. 
To Bag's TALL neighbor, Don't bark 'cause girls like greasy Sonya might come upl 
I need two DUKE GAs. Mike 288 -9483 
Need a ride to Purdue for St. Valentine's weekend. Can leave Fri. after 5:00 or Sat. morning. Please call 272-8617. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 10,1987 -page 15 
Takes Big East lead 

Pitt edges Syracuse, 63-61 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH-Charles Smith made two foul shots with eight seconds to play Monday night to give No. 10 Pittsburgh a 63-61 victory over No. 9 Syracuse and sole possession of first place in the Big East Con­ference. 


This 
college course
•
tSgoar­anteed to make 


you sweat. 
You'll run, climb, rappel, march and stretch your mind as well as your body. 
Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps is the college elective that challenges you mentally and physically. Builds self-confidence and leadership skills. And prepares you for the kind of responsibility you won't get from a textbook. 
Its the workout that can work for you the rest of your life. 
J-.or more information about enrolling in Army RO' 1C, talk to your Professor of Military Science. 
INTERESTED? Call Capt. Domingo 239-6264 
Jerome Lane, the nation's leading rebounder, muscled his way to 21 points, 16 in the second half, and 14 rebounds as the Panthers, 20-4, won their seventh consecutive game despite trailing by as many as seven points. 
Pitt, 9-2 in the Big East, defeated Syracuse for the 

' 

{_{) 
~ 
u.J 
u 
~ 
0 ~ 
~ 
u..J 
{_{) 
tt 






~ .~ 
second time in two weeks. The Panthers won 84-70 in Syracuse on Jan. 26. 
Syracuse, 19-4 overall and 8-3 in the Big East, got 19 points from 6-foot-10 center Rony Seikaly and 16 from Sherman Douglas. 
Temple 73, Penn St. 70 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. ­Mike Vreeswyk made two free throws with 13 seconds left in overtime to help No. 6 Temple beat Penn State 73-70 Monday night and remain undefeated in the Atlantic 10 Conference. 
Vreeswyk's 3-point field goal with 18 seconds left in regula­tion tied the game at 61-61 and Penn State's Wes Jones missed a shot with three seconds left to force the overtime. 
Vreeswyk's free throws with 13 seconds to play gave Temple a 72-68 lead that sealed the vic­tory . 
Nate Blackwell led Temple with 21 points, while Vreeswyk added 18. 
Temple improved to 24-2 overall and 13-0 in the confer­ence, while Penn State dropped to 11-10 and 5-8. 

USE YOUR COLLEGE DEGREE TO GO PLACES 
•Whatever 
your personal and professional goals, you can probably get there faster in the NAVY. Our various officer programs offer inter­national scope and world-recognized prestige. 

• 
Navy leadership and executive management training go hand-In-hand to prepare you for an exciting role as a Naval Officer. 

• 
Upward Mobility is more than just a promise; it's a reality. Promotions come regularly as your experience and knowledge increase. Many of to­day's leaders in business, government and the professions have successfully completed a ca­reer as a Naval Officer. 



Your options and opportun­ities are as varied and chal­lenging as your interests. 
Navy Officers are: 
• 
Aviators who fly F-14 TOMCATS 

• 
Engineers on Nuclear Submarines 

• 
Computer Specialists 

• 
Doctors 

• 
Business Managers 

• 
Procurement and Fiscal Managers 

• 
Civil Engineers 

• 
Lawyers 

• 
Meteorologists and much 




more 
• Naval Officers receive pay and allowances worthy of a professional and, thanks to extra benefits such as free dental and medical care, housing, and commissary and exchange privi­leges, you keep more of what you earn. 

• Ail of this is just a part of the story: only a Naval Officer who has experienced it for himself can tell you what it's really like. 
Naval Officers will be on campus 
February 18-l~  Sign  up  at the  
Placement Office  to  talk with them  
personally about  your  future  goals  

or call ahead for more information. 
256-1455 
~--------------------.-­
The Observer Tuesday, February 10,1987 -page 16 
All-Star sub Chambers winds up game MVP 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE-In the beginning, Pat Riley didn't have to worry about his starting lineup as coach of the West squad for the 37th NBA All-Star game. 
Until Houston's Ralph Sampson injured his knee last week, and NBA Commissioner David Stern chose the Seattle SuperSonics' Tom Chambers to fill in. 
So Riley was faced with start­ing one of the original reserve players, or Chambers-the only All-Star from the game's host city. 
He chose Chambers. 
The upshot was a delighted Kingdome-a game-high 34 points for Chambers and recognition as the game's Most Valuable Player. 
"Starting Tom was a great coaching move," Riley jokingly said after the West beat the East, 154-149 in over­time Sunday. "I didn't want to be booed in front of 40,000 fans before the game started. 
"I could have done things dif­ferently, but Tom showed for himself and for the Sonics today," added the Los Angeles Lakers coach. 
The 6-foot-10 Chambers hit 13 of 25 field goal attempts, in­cluding two of three 3-pointers. He had 27 of his points after halftime. He also pulled down four rebounds and had two as­sists. 
The only players to score more points in an all-star game were Wilt Chamberlain, who had 42 in 1962 and Rick Barry with 38 in 1967. Chambers' 34 equaled George Gervin in 1980 and Julius Erving, who played his final All-Star contest Sun­day, in 1984. 
"Today I'm the best in the world," Chambers said. "It's unfathomable, me, Tom Cham­bers, can be that. It means everything. It's just a tremen­dous thrill. I'm as excited as I can be." 
He also gave credit to Dallas' Rolando Blackman, who sent the game into overtime with a pair of free throws with no time left in regulation play and was runner-up for the MVP award. In the overtime, Blackman and Chambers each scored four points as the West won for only the second time in eight games. 
"My award wouldn't have been possible if Rolando had missed one of those free throws," Chambers said. 
Blackman returned the com­pliment: "He's a great player," he said of Chambers. "He's a devastating type player who can blow out a game for you." 
The game was fun for the other players, too. 
"It was magic," said Magic Johnson. "It was just so sweet. This was by far the best game. It was the Doc's (Erving's) last game. We came back from 12 down in the last seven minutes. The hometown hero was the MVP. What more could you ask 
for?" 
Johnson may be able to take at least part of the credit. He and lsiah Thomas held a quick summit at halftime, deciding on plans to pick up the tempo in the second half. 
"That first half was kind of boring," Thomas said. "We wanted to raise the game to a higher level. We wanted to make the place electric. Bring it to the top and let it bust." 
They did, including one wild stretch in the fourth quarter when the teams combined for 13 points in 1 minute, 9 seconds. 
"Everything was happening so fast. It was like we were in a whirl," Johnson said. 
Chambers' performance may help erase a reputation for being a one-dimensional player interested only in scoring. On three occasions Sunday, he was on the floor scrambling for loose balls. 
"I hope this brings me a little bit of respect," said Chambers, now in his sixth NBA season. "I also hope it gives the Seattle SuperSonics a little bit of respect, too." 
Chambers credited Johnson, who had 13 assists, for direct­ing the West's comeback vic­tory. 
In voting by a national sports panel, Chambers had eight votes and Blackman six. Moses Malone of Washington had one. 
"It's always been my dream to play on the same team with Magic Johnson," Chambers said. "It was everything that I Seattle's Tom Chambers was named the MVP West won in overtime, 154-149. dreamed of." in Sunday's NBA all-Star Game in Seattle. The 


INTERNATIONAL 
1 • 9 • 8 • 7 
SUMMER 
1llllllllf
-
1111­

SPECIAL 
-

OLYMPICS 
G A M E S® 

"Notre Dame has been describedl as a place with a greater concentration of good than than anywhere else on earth." 
-Fr. Ted, January 1987 

A few special children need the help of a few special college students. Please help out. If you want to volunteer for the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics, pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the 2nd Floor of La Fortune anytime between 9:00 and 5:00 Mon-Fri. 
--~--~~-----------~~~----­
The Observer Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 17 
Grace defeats Dillon, 3-1, grabs Blue Division lead 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO Sports Writer 
With a little less than a month left in the Interhall hockey season, only two teams still remain unbeaten and untied. 
Defending Interhall cham­pion Grace is now 3-0 after defeating a tough Dillon squad last Thursday night at the ACC rink. Later that night, Pangborn (2-0-1} beat Sorin, 6­0, in a game that was suspended in the second-half due to a bench-clearing inci­dent (see related story, page ll. 
But in the Grace-Dillon con­test, after a fairly evenly played first-half which saw no scoring, Grace turned it up a notch in the final period to reg­ister a 3-1 victory. 
Grace had a power-play op­portunity in the first-half, but could not cash in. Several scoring chances by Dillon also came up empty, due in part to the goaltending play of Grace's Gary Davis. 
"Gary was able to stop several of their scoring oppor­tunities which was a big lift for our guys," said Grace captain Jim Rataczak. 
Grace's Drew Spesard got the game's first goal early in the second period. Spesard was in front of Dillon's goal when he knocked home a loose puck that had rebounded off Dillon's goalie, who stopped Steve Bis­hop's initial shot. A few minutes later, Steve Bishop se­cured his team's second goal off a power-play situation. Bis­hop took the puck inside of the blue line, worked himself into the slot area and fired it into the top half of the goal. 
Bishop, who looks like houdini on ice at times, made some impressive coast-to-coast rushes that nearly produced scores. His stick handling and skating abilities were a beauti­ful treat for any hockey en­
thusiast to watch. 
The third goal for Grace was scored by Rataczak, scoring off a rebound. But Dillon avoided the shutout when Frank Gasior scored on a power-play. Gasior took a pass from behind the Grace goal and shot it past Davis. 
"It was a tough game as ex­pected and seems to be that way every year," said Ratac­zak. 
Rataczak knows his club is in good position for making the playoffs, but cautioned that they still have a few hurdles to surpass (Off Campus and CavanaugW Howard) if they are to win the Blue League. 
In the Blue League, Grace is currently atop the standings, followed closely by Off Campus(3-1). Off Campus, which had posted earlier vic­tories against Carroll! Keenan and CavanugW Howard by respective 10-0 and 4-2 deci­sions, suffered an untimely loss to Flanner (2-2), 2-1. Grace and Off Campus are scheduled to do battle on Feb. 18 in what promises to be one of the best matchups of the season. 
There is a logjam for third place among three teams. Flanner, which dropped its first two (the second to Grace, 9-3), evened its record by win­ning 3-1 over St. EdAloly Cross and upsetting Off Campus 2-1. Dillon (2-2) had won two straight in defeating Carroll! Keenan, 6-0, and CavanaugW Howard, 7-1, before losing to Grace. 
CavanaugW Howard (2-2) dropped its last two in losing to Dillon and Off Campus. Carroll! Keenan (1-2) has been unable to score in its last two games as it was blanked by Off Campus and Dillon. Finally, St. Ed's! Holy Cross is at the bot­tom of the league with an 0-4 record. 

Notre Dame's Kevin Markovitz moves the puck up the ice in action earlier this season. Pete 
The standings in the Gold League find Morrissey (3-0) currently in first just ahead of Alumni and Pangborn. M!)rris­sey had no problem in winning its last two by 5-1 and 5-2 scores over Zahm and Fisher respec­tively. Meanwhile, Alumni (3­0-1) has a three-game win streak which includes victories over Sorin, 10-1, and Zahm, 7-5. Pangborn (2-0-1) downed Stan­ford and Sorin and will face a tough test when it must play the Gold favorites (Alumni and Morrissey) to determine divi­sion honors. 
Fisher (2-1-1), which is stili in the hunt, must improve over its last two outcomes which produced a 3-3 tie with Zahm and a loss to Morrissey. The remaining Gold participants, Zahm, Sorin and Stanford, have yet to taste victory. Zahm (0-2-1) came close, but could only manage to tie Fisher. Stanford (0-3) dropped its last two to Alumni and Pangborn. 
Sorin (0-4) has been blown out in every game as indicated by 10-1 and 9-0 whippings ad­ministered by Alumni and Fis­her respectively. 



NV A Calendar 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for some upcoming events on its agenda. Tomorrow is the final day to sign up for Interhall Wres­tling, a tournament for both individuals and teams. Wednesday, Feb. 18, is the deadline for the following events: 
Floor Hockey: Hall tournament, game equipment pro­vided, $15 entry fee. Raquetball: Open tournament to anyone on campus, two divisions. Sneaker Broom ball: One-day tournament. 
In addition, a team swimming meet has been given a Feb. 25 deadline. 
Students are reminded of the Stretchercise program, which is already in progress on Tuesday and Thursday, beginning at 5:20p.m. 
Other available openings include aerobics, hydrorobics and the Century Club. NVA also rents cross-country ski equipment from Tuesday to Sunday, and has a regular schedule of cross-country events on tap for the month of February.. 
Registration andtbr further information on these activ­ities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in the ACC. 
It's devenp.m. 
Doyouknowwhereyourpaperis? 
Let's be real. Compare the equipment she's using to yours. If you were both trying to tunnel through amountain, she'd have abulldozer and you'd have ashrimp fork. 
Don't despair. Your problem is already half-solved. For a limited time, you can buy an Apple® Macintosh'M Plus or aMacintosh 512K Enhanced computer with Microsoft Works-for less money. 
Which is wonderful. 
You get aMacintosh, with its speed, ease of use, and graphics capability. Plus, you get asoftware program that lets you use all this Macintosh power in all your subjects. 
Microsoft Works is not just one program, it's four integrated pro­grams: word processing, data-base management, spreadsheet with charting, and communications. 
Meaning you can put charts in your history essays. Spreadsheets in your economics papers. Call D<~w jones News; Retrieval at 2:00A.M. to get the facts for your journalism story due at 8:00A.M. 
So if you're taking more than one subject this semester, you should check out Macintosh and Microsoft Works. 
But don't wait till the eleventh hour. This offer will end soon. 
And your paper might stay out all night. 

Macintosh and MicrosoftWorks 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 
Applr tmd tlw Afllllr logo 1m rtgistrrtd trlldtWUJrlrs ofApplr Corrtfn41rr, Inc Mlldnlolb U a tNd"'""* ofApph (.o..pMln, l•tc Dow)ants Ntwi/Rdrltwd It a rtghlmd trvulmuri ofDowJonrs 6 Campdrty, Inc. Mlcrowft Is 11 twsUtmd ,,..._.,.ofMlrrosoft Corport~tlotf. 
The Observer 
Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 18 

,. 

Women's Soccer Club finds shelter indoors 
faced several Big Ten and Mid-American Confer­In between its fall season and spring outdoor ence teams and defending Canadian national cham­tournament, the Women's Soccer Club will start its 
Steve pions Western Ontario.
winter indoor season this week. 
Julia Merkel placed fourth overall in the mile atThe Irish will get an early look at big-time com­
petition this Sunday at Saint Mary's when the Belles Megargee 5: 10.25. Theresa Rice took fourth in her heat in the 440-yard dash at 63.5, and fifth in her heat in the
host the fourth annual Women's Indoor Soccer In­Club Corner vitational. Michigan State, Indiana, Illinois and 300-yard dash at 41.49. Darlene Martin finished fifth Maarquette will compete in the tournament with in her heat in the 60-yard dash at 7.76 and recorded Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. a distance of 8.85 meters on the shot put, and Debbie 
"Michigan State has gone varsity this year, and Long placed sixth in her heat in the 300-yard dash they've always been really good," said Club Pres­at 43.27. ident Kerry Haverkamp. "Marquette won our out­door tournament last year, and Indiana and Illinois The men's Ski Team qualified for the Midwest are also excellent." Notre Dame will have its first match against Cal­Regionals at last weekend's qualifiers, but the 
Notre Dame faces Indiana at 9 a.m., and will then vin at 8 p.m. on Friday. The consolation final will status for the women's team is still uncertain. play Michigan State at 1 p.m. The championship is be at noon Saturday, and the championship match By placing third in the qualifiers, the men's team scheduled for 4 p.m., with the consolation final at is scheduled for 2 p.m. on Saturday. automatically reached the Midwest Regionals 3 p.m. All games will be held at the Angela Athletic Club members are hoping the tournament will which will be held in Minnesota in two weeks. Facility at Saint Mary's. help publicize Notre Dame volleyball. "John Krueger and Pat McBride were both hurt, 
"In the past, nobody's really known about men's so we can definitely use the week off to help our 
Sporting a 7-1 record going into last night's match volleyball here," said Sullivan. "There are people injury situation," said Jeff Parker. with Grand Valley State, the Men's Volleyball Club we've known for four years who don't know there's Without top skier Kathy Skendzel, the women's will be out to avenge its only loss of the season when a men's volleyball team here, so we want to make team finished fifth overall. Only the top four teams it hosts the first annual Rich O'Leary Invitational it more respected at Notre Dame. We're playing receive automatic bids to the regionals, but the Irish Classic at the ACC Pit this weekend. three teams in the top twelve of the nation, so this may still receive one of two at-large bids. The team 
Calvin College, Michigan, and Bowling Green, should be a viable sport at Notre Dame." will learn tomorrow whether it received a bid. who defeated the Irish in a tournament two weeks "They placed first and third in their other two ago, will participate in the event with Notre Dame. The Women's Track Club competed in the Mic­meets, so they have a good shot at an at-large bid," 
"Bowling Green beat us in Michigan's tourna-higan State Relays last weekend where the Irish said McBride. 
Former ND assistant builds basketball program at Iona 
Associated Press judge me just by the wins and 
State coach Jim Valvano and Richie Simmonds said. "It 
losses," Brokaw said, "but by Kennedy, is 11-11 entering wasn't something we were used NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y.­the kinds of students we turn Tuesday night's Metro Atlantic to. When it first went into ef­Former Notre Darner Gary out. Athletic Conference game at fect, we were all sort of Brokaw describes himself as "With what is happening home against Army. Brokaw is shocked. Then we adjusted to 
"a street kid with class." today in college athletics, with not discouraged. it." 
He was classy enough to play the scandals going on and the "I'm not interested in short Adjusted so well that the basketball for Notre Dame and problems off the court, more term," he said. "I'm here to do team grade-point average has eventually earn a degree there, emphasis should be placed on the job in a class way. I'm risen from 2.0 after the semes­become a first-round draft that. We want to take a young looking at the long term, build­ter last spring to 2.5 after the 
choice of the Milwaukee Bucks man in his formative years and ing a program instead of a recently-completed fall semes­in 1974, and return to Notre make him confident on the bas­
quick fix." ter, according to academic ad­
Dame in 1980 for six years as ketball court or in the Brokaw's impact is unmis­viser David Bowers. an assistant to Digger Phelps. workplace. At the same time, takable away from the court. Now in his first year as head we're working our tails off to Gary Brokaw Players felt it as soon as he ar­Brokaw's parents, John and 
basketball coach at lona Col­win as many games as we rived. Louise, helped him recognizelege, Brokaw hopes the streets can." season in a decade last year "He had let us know at the the need for discipline when he 
can be as kind to his players. Brokaw, 32, is frustrated by and losing coach Pat Kennedy beginning of the year we would was growing up in New He wants them to become what is happening on the court. to Florida State. have study hall," junior guard Brunswick, N.J. "street kids with class." The Gaels need to be rebuilt Iona, best known as the start­"I don't think people should after suffering their first losing ing place for North Carolina 



Fencers 
continuedfrom page 20 
The women also defeated Purdue (16-0), Ohio State (10­6), Kent State (16-0), North Carolina State (14-2), North Carolina (11-5) and Northwes­tern (13-3). 
They now own a 15-0 record, 198-42 (.826) in individual bouts. Auriol has coached his team to a 38-0 record over two years. 
The men had an equally im­pressive weekend, defeating Northwestern (22-5), Purdue (26-1), North Carolina State (21-6), North Carolina (19-8), Ohio State (22-5), Kent State (24-3) and Oberlin (27-0). 
Instead of the epee team fen­cing in the spotlight last weekend, it was the foil team that was unstoppable, perhaps reacting to the 'weak link' sar­casm thrown at them by their epee counterparts and the fact that they entered the weekend with fewer wins than the epeeists. 
Led by Yehuda Kovacs, who now is the only undefeated fen­cer on the team with an indi­vidual record of 24-0, the foilists slashed their way to a 59-4 record over the weekend. 
The foilists were unable to face Ohio State's top foilist, Sunil Sabharwal, because of the fact that the Honorable Mention All-American had been dismissed from the team. The Buckeyes also hid their other top foilist from Irish blades, perhaps in an attempt to protect their records. 
"The idea is to keep your top fencers shielded so that they have undefeated records when they head into the NCAA tourn­ament," said Assistant Coach Rich Daly. "That way they get seeded higher not only because of their record, but also be­cause of schedule strength." 
Epee ringleader Todd Grif­fee, not to' be outdone by the foilists, continued his winning ways, going undefeated on the day to boost his record to 26-2. 
The men have a 16-0 record, 358-74 (.828) in individual bouts. Head Coach Mike DeCicco is now within four meets of winning his 500th meet. That should happen in two weeks, when Notre Dame hosts eight teams, including a very tough Illinois team, on Feb. 21. 
Both teams will be inactive until that meet. In the mean­time, Joel Clark, Derek Holeman, Tim Collins, and Danny Yu will participate in the Junior Olympics in Orlando this weekend. They will be joined by Janice Hynes, Kristin Kralicek, Brenda Leiser, and Anne Barreda. 

a Call Jeff 3660 or Joe 1190 • 
The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the follow­ing position: 
1987-88 

Editor-in-Chief 
Questions should be directed to Joe Murphy. Applications are due by by February 12 at 5:00 
p.m. 


3rd Floor LaFortune Student Center 
239-5303 

~ 



']I['4CJtt:lltt~t~------------------------------------------------------•T•u•es•d•a•y,•F•e•b•ru.a~ry•l•0•,1•98•7•-~p~ag~e-1~9
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

Beer Nuts 
Mark Williams 


Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Kellog~ Institute Brown BagSeminar, ''Populansm and Catholicism in Latin America," by Enrique Dussell, Visiting Professor, ND Dept. of Theology and Guest Scholar, ND Kellogg Institute, 131 Decio 
1:00 p.m.: Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Card Party, Notre Dame Faculty Club 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "The Structure and Properties of Amorphous Hydrogenated Semiconductors," by Mark Petrich, Chern. Engr. Dept. University of Califor­nia, Berkeley, 356 Fitzpatrick 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Ap­pleWorks Spreadsheet, 108 Computing Center, limit 6, to register, call Betty at 239-5604 
4:00 p.m.: Office Visits-Plan Trips workshop for graduating students with second interviews conducted by Kitty Ar­nold, Director, Career and Placement, Memorial Library Lounge 4:30p.m.: Biolo~ical Sciences Seminar: "Artificial Intelligence in Biological Re­search and Teaching," by Prof. Theodore Crovello, N.D., Biological Scienes Auditorium 6:00p.m.: SMC History and Government Clubs Film and Lecture film: "Asi Fue," ("So It Went") , and "Elections in Nicaragua," by Prof. Robert Arnoue, In­diana University, Bloomington, Stapleton Lounge 
7:30 
p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series: "Medium Cool," 1969, color 110 minutes, director of Haskell Wexler, USA, Annen­berg Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m.: Beach Boys Concert, $13.50, ACC 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Roast Breast of Turkey Beef -Stuffed Pepper Spinach Quiche Tuna Muffin with Cheese 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Fish with Lemon Wedge and Tartar Sauce Beef and Vegetable Stir Fry Corn Dog Deli Bar 

.. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Where the 
captain stands 5 Saharan 9 Dull sound 
13 Eye part 14 Boss or vote 15 Deli delight 16 Army VIP 19 Trout bait 20 Fortifies 21 Saunter 22 Insult 23 Relocate 25 Baseball's 
Ford 28-avis 29 Health resort 32 Super 33 Abraham's wife 34-de deux 35 Lucky pieces 39 Byron's always 40 Archie's 
"dingbat" 41 "Born Free" 
star 42 Whiskey 43 Snares 44 Declined 46 Green stroke 11 Asian range 47 Tumble 12 Ration 48 Gnat group 14 Wander 51 Nimbus 17 Auction 52 Depot: abbr. 18 Ariz, native 55 Extravaganza 22 Gang follower 59 Elusive 23 The-King 60 Invest with (Sousa) 
a gift 24 Spoken 61 Pledge 25 Communion 62 Braces item 63 Actress 26 Claptrap 
Emerson 27 Habituate 64 Steadfast 28 Large collections 
DOWN 29 Short time 1 Bluster 30 Do grammar 2 Malevolent work 3 Tax 31 Syr. president 4 Famous West 33 Peter or Paul 5 Lasting 36 Pea or bean 
imprint 37 Correct copy 6 Lapses 38 Disguise 7 Joplin tune 44 Sham 8 Merino mama 45 Jai­9 Composition 46 Plunders 
10 Mace or mint 47 Bach number 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

2/10/87 

48 Proofreader's 52 Cicatrix word 53 Ballet wear 49 Sigh of 54 Tennis name 
relief 56 Ump's kin 50 A Guthrie 57 Pig-poke 51 Raggedy doll 58 Poppycock 

J
• 

~ 
1 
l 
Tuesday, February 10,1987-page 2~'



S~orts 
Air force sweeps series 
as injuries plague Irish 
with 45 seconds remaining inBy PETE SKIKO regulation, and won the game
Sports Writer 
with a minute and a half left in When it rains, it really seems overtime. to pour for the Notre Dame "We picked up a couple of hockey team. dumb penalties in the late 
The Irish limped out of going,"said Smith, "and they Colorado Springs after drop­killed us on the power play. But ping a two-game set to the Fal­I'll tell you, our goalie cons of Air Force, but not (freshman) Lance Madson 
before losing several players really kept us in the game when 
indefinitely because of injuries we didn't play well overall in 
in the opening game on Friday the first period. 
night. "Saturday, it was like the I In that game, which the Irish walking wounded out there. We lost 4-3 in overtime, those who were down to three lines andI were counted among the in­four defensemen. When you fly 
jured or ailing included sop­to places like Colorado, you're The Observer 1 Greg Kohs 
homores Tom Smith (knee), limited to how many kids you The Irish hockey squad was cut down by injur­Falcons to sweep the weekend series at 
Roy Bemiss (walking can take. That really hurt us, ies Friday night against Air Force, helping the Colorado Springs. 
pneumonia) and Matt Hanzel and we ended up having a real (leg muscle pull), and juniors tough night. But again, I liked 
f Fencers win again...and again...Tom Mooney (hand), Mike the fact that we stayed intense McNeill Oeg) and Lance Pat­and were aggressive through­ten (hip pointer). out. We kept our poise even By TERRY LYNCH and didn't roll into South Bend was a very good sign. We are · Head Coach Lefty Smith though things were a bit disor­Sports Writer untill a.m. finally coming together as a cited the gutty play of the ganized." Other than that, the story team." remaining healthy Irish The final on Saturday was 6-About the biggest thing the remains the same for two of the The big dramatics in the players as the factor which 1. The two losses dropped Notre Notre Dame fencing teams had hottest collegiate fencing Temple meet came from fresh­kept Notre Dame close on Dame's overall record to 8-14, to worry about in Columbus, teams in the nation. man Anne Barreda, who came Friday and within striking dis­and the team now looks for­Ohio this past weekend was fin­In the closest meet of the off of a close 5-3 bout only to be tance most of the way on Sat­ward to conference action over ding a way back home. weekend, the women's team forced to fence again on an­urday. the next two weeks. The up­Oh, the usual things hap­fought back from a 3-1 deficit other strip. Temple subbed in "For a while I was thinking coming games are of vital im­pened in the meet. The men to claim a 9-7 victory over the a fresh fencer, but Barreda, of tying on the skates myself," portance to Notre Dame's po­beat everybody in sight. So did Temple Owls. Temple, consid­who was visibly tired from her said Smith, reflecting the sition in the ACHA standings. the women, except for a little ered by many to be the best previous meet, fenced well desperation his team faced. "We've got Michigan-scare from the Temple squad. team in the East, was without enough to claim another 5-3 "Friday night, we started out Dearborn and Lake Forest both The winning streaks continue, the services of their top fencer, win. flat but played well for the final on the road," said Smith. now reaching 69 straight meets Denise Dobesh. That suited the Kristin Kralicek provided two periods. We really hung in "Lake Forest just swept a pair for the men and 38 for the wo­Irish just fine, because they the big spark for the Irish, pos­quite well, considering our lack from Kent State (another con­men. were without the services of all­ting a 19-2 record this weekend. of numbers, but it would have ference foe) so if we can finish The real problem was getting American Molly Sullivan, who The sophomore from Portland, been nice to have pulled the strong, we could conceivably away from the wilds of Colum­was in Germany participating Ore., raised her season record thing out." come out on top of the heap." bus. The teams were nearly in the Senior World Cup. to 33-6 and now leads the team Notre Dame led 3-1 for much The Irish take on the Wolves stranded by transportation and "Temple was a very good in wins. of the third period on Friday, of Michigan-Dearborn this weather problems in the test for us," said Head Coach but Air Force tied the score weekend. middle of Ohio Sunday night, Yves Auriol. "Beating them see FENCERS, page 18 UNLV remains on top; Duke moves to 15th 
in the Atlantic Coast Confer­ence. 

Nevada-Las Vegas, which Iowa received 1,086 points has used the three-point goal to after making its record ~1-2 go over the 100-point mark 11 with wins over over Minnesota times this season, remained and Arizona. No. 1 for the second straight DePaul, the lone ranked in­week in the The Associated dependent, moved to 20-1 with Press' college basketball poll. victories over North Carolina 
The next seven spots in the State and Dayton and received rankings released Monday also 987 points. Temple, 23-2, un­were the same as last week­beaten in the Atlantic 10 with Indiana, North Carolina, Iowa, victories over Massachusetts, DePaul, Temple, Purdue and Rhode Island and St. Joseph's Oklahoma. last week, got 963 points. 
Nevada-Las Vegas, 23-1, at­Purdue, 18-3, a winner over tracted 51 first-place votes and Wisconsin and Northwestern, 1,282 points from the nation­received 909 points. Oklahoma, wide panel of sports writers 19-3, which posted Big Eight tri­and broadcasters. The poll in­umphs over Nebraska and Mis­cludes games through Sunday. souri last week, landed 867 
The Runnin' Rebels won both points. its games last week, defeating Utah State 113-78 and San Jose Syracuse, 19-3, one of five State 83-74 to stay unbeaten in ranked Big East teams, ad­the Pacific Coast Athletic As­vanced two places into the No. sociation after 11 games. 9 spot with 667 points after pos­
Indiana, 19-2 and leader in ting conference victories over the Big Ten Conference with a Seton Hall and Connecticut. 10-1 mark, landed 10 first-place Pittsburgh, 19-4, became No. 10 ballots and 1,215 points. The with 593 points, up three places Hoosiers scored conference tri­from a week ago, after scoring umphs over Michigan State 84-Big East wins over Villanova 80 and Michigan 83-67 on Sun­and Providence. day. 
North Carolina, which got the Illinois headed the Second 
• other four No. 1 votes and 1,194 Ten, followed by Clemson, points, beat North Carolina Georgetown, Alabama, Duke, State 96-79 and Virginia 74-73 in St. John's, Kansas, Texas 
Indiana center Dean Garret finds his team overtime Sunday to boost its Christian, Florida and Provi­caught between Nevada-Las Vegas and North record to 20-2 and keep the lead dence. 
Associated Press 









