
Special Olympic Games -inside 

VOL. XXI, NO. 115 MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma11·'s 
Flanner fire 
had electrical Bookstore tourney cause: Security 


bans 'unfit' names 
By JIM RILEY News Editor By CHRIS BEDNARSKI In a letter to the editor in News Editor today's Observer, however, 
The origin of a fire in a Flan­Wenc said team names were ner Hall room Friday night was ,, Approximately 100 names of "reconsidered by a student electrical, said Assistant the 662 teams competing in this committee, ultimately working Director of Security Phil year's Bookstore Basketball in agreement with the Office of Johnson Sunday. tournament were struck from Student Activities." · 
The fire was noticed by a the tournament schedule by a Many team names in the past Flanner resident at approxi­student committee and altered have been terrible, said Rocca. mately 10 p.m. in Room 620. or replaced with numbers this 
At one point a couple of yearsNo one was in the room at past weekend. 
ago, University President Fa­. the time and no one was injured "(The names) were unfit for ther Theodore Hesburgh con­in the incident, according to publishing and they were ter­sidered cancelling the tourna­Flanner rector Brother Mi­.... ribly gross,'' said Assistant ment, said Father Davidchael Smith. 
Vice President for Student Ser­Tyson, vice president for Stu­The fire was contained to one vices Father Peter Rocca. dent Mfairs.
room, Johnson said. 
According to tournament "It was clearly in the presi­The damage to the room and commissioner Steve Wenc, dent's mind," to eliminate the its contents was estimated at members of the the Office of tournament, said Tyson, who
under $2,000. 
Student Activities approached was Hesburgh's executive as­Smith said the dorm was him concerning the names of sistant at the time. 
evacuated when he ordered a the teams.
resident assistant to pull the That year every team name dorm's fire alarm. Residents Wenc said some team names was eliminated and replaced returned to the building about were replaced with numbers, with a number, Tyson said. 30 minutes after the alarm +: '.· '".-,?-and an attempt was made to "The entire schedule was done
~--­

went off. ..~;~~';, .. contact the teams whose with numbers," he said. "The Johnson said that when names were changed. entire schedule was deleted." firemen arrived, an up­The ObServei'!Zoltan Ury No teams were eliminated After that year, team names holstered couch was on fire. A fire in Flanner Hall on Friday resulted in extensive damage from the tournament, said were better, according to Roc-
Firemen broke out the to one room. The cause of the fire is believed to be electrical. Wenc, who declined further room's bay window and threw Story at left. comment. see NAMES, page 4 the couch outside. He said this The Observer~oltan Ury was standard procedure in such a situation because it is difficult to get upholstered 
Hesburgh to be honored with Laetare Medal 
furniture to stop burning and smoking. Hesburgh responded to the ganized by retiring vice­special ... but don't ever take
By BETH CORNWELL 
Gary Gamino, a sixth-floor Staff Reporter news of his award by saying, president, Father Edmund these things too seriously. resident, said he discovered the "I'm flabbergasted, amazed, Joyce. Hesburgh noted that "One thing you should al­fire when returning to his room The University of Notre astounded, and staggered." "the secret was a hard one for ways remember 'sic transit that evening. Dame will give the 1987 the committee to keep. The real gloria mundi' (so passes the 
"I got off the elevator and Laetare Medal to its retiring The medal, the University's problem was this, I kept asking · glory of the world). The was walking into the section president, Father Theodore highest honor, is the oldest why we didn't get going on the cemeteries of the world are when I saw smoke around the Hesburgh. award given to American Cat­meetings. So the secret had to filled with indispensible ceiling," said Gamino. "I In making the announce­holics. It is awarded annually come out ... This was the first people. This place--it'll get on heard the smoke detector going ment, Notre Dame Board of to honor an American Catholic time in thirty-five years I didn't swimmingly without me.'' 
Hesburgh is in his thirty-fifth off in 620," he added. Trustees Chairman Donald or Catholic husband and wife get in on it. 
Gamino said he notified the Keough said, "Conferring on for extraordinary service to "You know you don't expect year as president of Notre rector. The two returned with Ted Hesburgh the oldest and their church and to the nation. to get awards from your own Dame, the longest tenure resident assistants and a most prestigious award given group--they mean more, but among active presidents of master key, Gaminio said. to American Catholics affirms The committee to choose the you don't expect them. You can American institutions of higher 
When they opened the door, his dedicated and unparalleled medal recipient is usually get awards from all over the learning. He will step down fol­service to church, country and headed by Hesburgh, but this world but when your own take lowing University Commence­see FIRE, page 4 higher education." year a secret session was or-time to honor you, that's extra-ment Exercises May 17. 

North Dining Hall to be expanded and given 'classier' look 
By CHRIS JULKA intended to make the dining With this set-up, which would the current long tables. The ef­Pasquerillas. Whereas it is ex­Assistant News Editor hall "fit in better with Breen resemble that of South Dining fect would make the dining hall pected that the new dorms will Phillips, Farley and other ar­Hall, Hickey said, "scramble seem "less like a high school be finished by June 1, 1988, ac· The North Dining Hall may chitecture in the North Quad," lines'' would replace the cur­cafeteria" and would better cording to Dedrick, the North have a new look within the next said Don Dedrick, director of rent single files. With diners befit the atmosphere of the Uni­Dining Hall will have its new two years. the physical plant. going only to those stations versity, Hickey said. To further look by the fall of 1988 "at the 
Director of Food Services It is also proposed that the which specifically suit their rid tbe dining hall of the earliest." William Hickey said plans for north and south ends of the preferences instead of passing "institutional" "linear effect," the renovation of the cafeteria dining hall be expanded. Each through an entire buffet line. round salad bars are also Said Dedrick, "Building the are currently under considera­of the new wings would serve People would have to wait planned to replace the current dorms is relatively simple be­tion because of the shift in pop­as additional dining sections much less time before obtain­long rectangular ones, Hickey cause you're starting from ulation to the North Quad oc­with capacities of 100 seats. ing their meals, Hickey said. added. scratch. But the renovations curring with the addition of the Each could be reserved for spe­In addition, dirty dishes may All of the renovations will will be rather complicated be­two new dormitories near the cial club functions when not be returned to seven-deck, combine to give an effect cause you are modifying an P asquerillas. being used for the purposes of "merry-go-round soil-tray similar to that of the Faculty already existing structure." 
Blue prints have already daily student meals. returners,'' instead of con­Lounge in the South Dining Dedrick emphasized, "All of been drawn for the construc­Not only does the University veyer belts or bus carts, accor­Hall, according to Hickey. In this is still in the early planning tion of a two-story structure plan on increasing the ding to Hickey. Also, carpeting general this would make the stages." He said no projected with a capacity of 300 seats to cafeteria's dining space, but may replace tiles to "reduce North Dining Hall look "clas­cost for the renovations had yet be added to the front of the also foresees radical restyling the overall noise level," Hickey sier," Hickey said. been calculated. dining hall. The proposed mez­of the hall's interior. said. Hickey said the completion of Beyond the renovations zanine would include a high Among the proposals, sepa­Finally, round tables and the renovations will hopefully listed above, Hickey has also overarching roof of the kind rate deli, dessert, and entree booth seats, as already exist in coincide with the completion of agreed to a request from Stu-found in the South Dining Hall. stations may replace the cur­the dining section entered the two new dorms currently 
The cafeteria's taller look is rent linear buffet displays. through F-Line, would replace under construction near the see DINING, page 3 

In Brief 
Maria von Trapp died Saturday at Copley Hospital in Morrisville, Vt. at the age of 82. Von Trapp's marriage to a baron and their escape from the Nazis with their children inspired the Academy Award winning movie, "The Sound of Music." She had been hospitalized Wed­nesday with intestinal, heart and diabetic problems, said Johannes von Trapp, one of her 10 children and step­children. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Bacchus will conduct an alcohol awareness week beginning today. Tonight at 10 in the Lewis hall lobby, Indiana State Police and Notre Dame Security will sponsor a drunk driving awareness program which will include a field test. Tuesday, the director of student activities at Dartmouth College will give ~ different perspective on the alcohol policy. Other events are scheduled throughout the week. -The Observer 
The English Department announces its annual writing contests. Awards will be given in the areas of poetry, fiction, playwriting, and essay. Deadline for ad­mission is this Thursday and requirements are available in Room 309 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
Special parking restrictions due to bookstore basketball will go into effect beginning tomorrow at the bookstore, Lyons Courts, and Stepan Courts lots. Parking is prohibited in the bookstore lot after 3:30 p.m. on week­days and after 1 p.m. on weekends. The Lyons and Stepan lots will be closed to parking at all times between tomorrow and April 24. Violators will have cars towed at their ex­pense. -The Observer 
Glee Club Spring Concert Ticket vouchers will be distributed tomorrow from 1 to 4 p.m. at the Washington Hall manager's office. Limit 2 vouchers per person. The concert is this Friday night. -The Observer 
Jesuit Volunteer Corps: Midwest will have a representative, Kris Berggren, at the Center for Social Concerns from 2 to 5 p.m. today to meet with students interested in learning more about the opportunity of spend­ing a year or more working with the poor and living in community with other volunteers throughout the country. 
-The Observer 
Rev. Malusi Mpumlwana will present a lecture titled "The Search for Peace and Justice in South Africa" today at 4:30 p.m. in Room 120 of the Law School. The lecture is sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies as part of its Peacemakers Lecture Series Program. -The Observer 
"Proficiency Testing and Some Implications for the Classroom" is the title of a workshop by Dr. Heidi Byrnes. Sponsored by the Department of Modern and Clas­sical Languages, the workshop is tomorrow at 11 a.m. in Room 303 Cushing. -The Observer 

Weather 
Brrr. Can you believe it? There is a winter storm watch today and tonight. Snow, heavy at times, and windy today. Cold with near steady temperatures in the 30s or slowly falling. Wind becoming east to northeast 15 to 25 mph and gusty. Chance of precipitation near 100 percent. Snow gradually tapering off to light snow Monday night. Cold with lows in the mid 20s. Becoming partly cloudy Tuesday. Cold, with highs in the low 30s. Spring is very far away folks. -Associated Press 




Man continues to build cubes while striving for classy look 
After learning of the details of the proposed renovations on the North Dining Hall, I had one reaction, even if it is naive and absurdly roman­tic: go further. Much further. 
It appears the "classy" look is back. The neatly utilitarian North Dining Hall will prob­ably soon look more like the South Dining Hall, all in the name of harmonizing it with the more "traditional" architecture on campus. 
But really how "classy" is the architecture of the South Dining Hall? As far as I am con­cerned, none of the proposals are classy or traditional enough. 
Perhaps because we live in a country barely 200 years old, we have come to accept cramped historical horizons. That we now regard build­ings less than a century old as somehow old, traditional or classical says something in itself. 
By no means am I am suggesting that we abandon innovation in architecture. Whatever we do, however, one thing is clear: the struc­tures of this century which we call examples of architecture have simply got to cease being the rule. 
For starters, let's look at the most obvious target for denunciation: big cities. 
The beginning and end of every break is for me an incredibly depressing experience. This is because to reach my home or to return to Notre Dame I have to pass through Chicago. If there is an argument for a nuclear war, down­town Chicago is it. 
Driving through Chicago is not like entering the flower of civilization. Rather it is like get­ting lost in the Valley of the Dinosaurs. Stark, grimy concrete and glass high-rises and other modernistic monoliths hem you in from every side like canyon walls of some barren prehis­toric epoch. 
All one finds these days is monotony and gray­ness. Mies van der Robe's adage that "Less is more" continues to reign despotically in modern architectural thinking. The saying may indeed be true enough, but if it is, then in my opinion the skyscrapers in Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, and so on are simply too much. 
Consider it this way: civilized man has been around for at least ten thousand years, can hold conversations over distances of thousands of miles and has even managed to land a man on the moon. Yet in all of this, with regard to shel­ter in our big cities he has found himself capable only of endlessly producing immense cubes. 
No better are the Fisher Price sets, like the Huddle, which most people have accustomed themselves to dine in these days. When I was in Europe, it seemed the only thought which 

Chris Julka 
Assistant News Editor 
l...frutA ST"ANTON '87 
crossed the mind of a hungry American was to find a McDonald's. At least as far as I am con­cerned, however, eating at one of the burger chains is like eating in a hospital or a psycho ward. Every one of these palaces of plastic are perfectly antiseptic and perfectly efficient in their operation, but that's all you can say. 
Of course, architects tell us incessantly that they are bucking this trend. Despite this, however, all they seem to come up with are edifices that look invariably like extrater­restrial egg cartons of the kind typically found in low-budget science fiction movies, without a trace of down-to-earth human warmth about them. 
Contrast this to what you can still find in Europe. In the old days, people were not· satisfied with blank walls. They doodled like crazy, carving crosses, swirls and flowers into doors, pillars, window sills, and anything they could find. No wonder one finds so much graffiti in this age. It is only natural to relieve empti­ness with some human details. By comparison to what there once was, most of our houses and restaurants and a lot of our churches and uni­versities are barren prisons. 
I suppose, though, we are too practical these days and therefore, know that building anything other than cubes or plastic burger joints is simply a waste of time. But I still have at least one request: let's not build another Huddle. 
5:00pm Room 221 Ha es-Heal 
~----------------------­
The Observer 
Monday, March 30, 1987-page 2 


Applications are now being accepted for 

1988 DOME Editor-in-Chief 


• 
Applications available in Student Activities Office. 

• 
Must be returned to Student Activities by 4:30 on Wednesday, April I. 

• 
Everyone encouraged to apply. 



Design Editor ............ Mark McLaughlin Deaign Asaistants..... . . . . The whole crew Typesetters .............. Mark McLaughlin ........................................... Daniel Cahill News Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning Copy Editor................... ... Rob Hennig Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor .................... . 
. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Caroline Gillespie 
Viewpotnt Layout ............ Heather Hypes Accent Copy Editor .............. Matt Sitzer Accent Layout................. Heather Hypes Special Section Layout .......................... . .................................. Mark McLaughlin Typists ................................ Colleen Foy NO Day Editor .............. Laurine Megna SMC Day Editor ... . . Theresa Harrington Ad Design ................... Mary C. Creadon Photographer ........................ Zolton Ury 
Tile Oblenu (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duri!JI exam and vacation periods. Tile OINenu is published by the students of tbe University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colle,c. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writiq Tile Oblenu, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
111e a.-n" is a member of Tile A..odaled Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 




The Observer Monday, March 30, 1987 -page 3 

Storm moves into Midwest leaving travelers stranded 
Associated Press in the 20s late Monday. A tor­nado watch was issued for 
Travelers spent the night parts of Louisiana, Mississippi snowbound in motels, armories and Alabama, and a second and a stalled bus as blowing storm spread snow over south­snow from the second blizzard ern New Mexico and southwes­in less than a week closed tern Texas. hundreds of miles of highways Blizzard conditions abated across the Plains and cancelled Sunday in Kansas, and the sun Sunday morning church ser­shone in Nebraska although vices. high winds still whipped snow 
"If you can imagine holding on the ground. a piece of white paper up to One Colorado traffic deathyour face and driving, that's was blamed on the storm, and what it looked like," Bill a Kansas man died of a heartHendrick of Des Moines, Iowa, attack while shoveling snow,said of driving in hard-hit eas­authorities said. 
tern Nebraska. The storm plastered eastern Eighteen people spent aboutColorado on Friday, then on 23 hours trapped in a Trail ways Saturday shut down hundreds bus that got stuck Saturdayof miles of interstates and other near Holdrege in south-centralhighways there and in western Nebraska. They were joined by Kansas and central Nebraska. 
two stranded truck drivers,On Sunday, it moved into who raided their cargoes of
Iowa, dumping more than a . " .
pizza ingredients and produce The Observeillavid Fischer foot of snow on the western two­to feed their companions, and
thirds of the state, with 30 to 45 Club's Regatta on St. Joseph's Lake. The
three Phelps County road
mph wind piling it into drifts Regatta was held this weekend.
workers who went to check on up to 8 feet high around the the bus and got stuck. 
ccmmunity of Carroll. Snow also blew across Wisconsin and Iowa radio stations said they 

Reagan: Support highway bill veto 
Upper Michigan. were bombarded with tele­To the south, freeze warnings phone calls announcing the 
in the White House. But must much lard since I handed outwere issued into southeastern cancellation of church services 
Associated Press 
he allow himself to be misled blue ribbons at the Iowa State 
Texas and Alabama peach because of the treacherous growers were warned of lows driving conditions. so?" Fair."
WASHINGTON -President 
Reagan vetoed the bill onReagan on Saturday appealed Delivering his weekly radio Friday and is mounting a
for public support of his veto of address from the Oval Office, major campaign for the neces­an $88 billion highway bill, ac­Reagan said passage of the sary Democratic and Republi­cusing the Democratic­Gramm-Rudman bill by
Student Activities Board 
can votes to prevent the
controlled Congress of going Congress in 1985, setting deficit 
• • Congress from overriding his
Is now accepting back on its promise to cut limits including one of $108 bil­veto this week. spending and reduce the defi­lion for the coming fiscal year, Moynihan, who headed the
cit. was "a solemn pledge to you,
applications for House-Senate conference com­
the American people." 
But Democrats responded mittee that ironed out differ­that the measure meets deficit­"You could feel the planet ences in the two versions of the IRISH GARDENS reduction targets and said shaking," he said. "And many bill, said the construction there is a surplus in the high­were hopeful Congress would season may be lost if Congress 
Store Manager 
way trust fund subsidized by keep its promise and hold to the fails to override Reagan's veto. the 9-cent-per-gallon tax on deficit targets.'' "If we don't get on with theAND 1 gasoline. "But you know Congress and highway program, we are very "Now look," Sen. Daniel spending," the president said. likely going to throw this eco­Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., "Only this week Congress sent nomy into a hair-curling reces­ADWORKS said in the Democratic radio me a highway construction bill sion," Moynihan said, adding address. "The president isn't that was loaded with pork bar­that a halt to highway construc­
President & supposed to do the bookkeeping rel projects. I haven't seen so tion would cost 700,000 jobs. 

Executive Vice President 
heaters be installed in each of pied during the winter because Pick up at 2nd floor the entrances of the dining hall of the cold, said Viz. The new as is already the case of St. Mi­blowers would not only elimi­


Dining 
LaFortune continuedfrom page 1 
chael's Laundry. The tables nate the discomfort of those AJ?plication Deadline: April 3 dent Senator Steve Viz that near the exits are rarely occu-standing in the entrance ways
............................................................................................................................... 
but also restore dining space
CiO FROM COLLEGE TOTHE ARMY--.. th~i~~~~el~~tduring cold days, 

Sailing away
While the temperature was not quite right, the breeze was perfect for the Notre Dame Sailing 
WITHOUT MISSING ABEAT. 
The hardest thing about break­of 40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the ing into professional also the opportunity for travel-could be your big break. Write: n1usic is-well, break­not only across America, but po&'iibly Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort ing into professional abroad. Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005. music. So if you're Most important, you can Or call toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY kxJking for an oppor­expect a first-rate pro­tunity to turn your fessional environment musical talent into from your instructors, 


full-time perforn1-facilities and fellow­ing career, take a musicians. The Army 
look at the has educational pro~;rrams that It's not can help you 
pay for off­

1nd John Philip Jury instruc­usa. Army tion. and if nds rock. you qual­
tz and boogie ifv, even well as march, help you they perform repay concertau­your iences as well federally -insured 

ARMY BAND. 
as spectators. student loans. \Vith an average Ifvou can sight-BE AI LYOU aN BE. 
Some of Viz's proposals which have already, or are about to take effect, include the extension of breakfast times to 
9:15 a.m. to accomodate stu­dents with 8 a.m. courses, the introduction of labelled silver­ware containers and labelled salad dressing ladles, accor­ding to Viz. In addition, Viz's suggestion that "Weekenders," weekend dining passes which offer 20 percent discounts to guests, has already been adopted, Viz said. 
Viz said he also plans to pro­pose a resolution to the Student Senate which would restrict students from each quad to their respective dining halls. Although Viz conceded that ''this is going to be controver­sial," he argued that such a measure would eliminate the crowding of North Dining Hall which occurs during finals weeks caused by the "influx of South Quad students" who have been studying at the Memorial Library. He added, "Ideally this will be in force by this year's spring finals--at least on a trial basis.'' 

Q 
The Observer 
r 
i. 
1 
l 
~ 
( \ 
I 
I 
~ 
t The Observer,,Zoltan Ury 
~ 
and more students might find themselves snug­gling up with some important reading. 
British party accuses White House of distorting talks to help Thatcher 

Associated Press 
LONDON -The opposition Labor Party on Sunday ac­cused the White House of dis­torting its talks with President Reagan to help Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's re­election chances. 
Labor deputy leader Denis Healey, a former foreign sec­retary, also said Reagan was badly briefed and muddled during Friday's meeting at the White House. He said Reagan was incapable of responding to some questions and that he mistook Healey for the British ambassador. 
"What does seem to be the case is that some of President 
Fire 
continuedfrom page 1 
they were engulfed by a cloud of smoke, according to Gamino. "The door wasn't hot, but we weren't prepared for the huge cloud of smoke," said Gamino. 
He said they then closed the door and pulled the alarm. 
Names 
continuedfrom page 1 
ca, but they have gotten worse in recent years. 
"This year, things had deteriorated to a point where we would rather (eliminate some team names) than do away with the whole tourna­ment," Rocca said. 
"There had been some concern (Hesburgh) would have reacted." 
Reagan's advisers thought it would be a good idea to try and help Thatcher in her election battle by being unkind to the Labor Party,'' Healey said in a TV interview. 
Thatcher is widely expected to call an election this summer or autumn, ahead of the June 1988 deadline. 
Healey attacked as his socialist party, sliding in opinion polls, took a new ham­mering in the British press, which for the most part sup­ports Thatcher's Conservative Party. · 
Thatcher meanwhile began an official visit to Moscow on Saturday and her red:..carpet 
Gamino said that most resi­dents returned within a half an hour, but sixth-floor residents had to wait until about 11:30 
p.m. before they could return. 
Gamino said Security per­sonnel, the Notre Dame Fire Department and the South Bend Fire Department all responded. After extinguishing the fire, they used large fans to blow the smoke out of the room, Gamino said. 
Most of the damage to the 
This was a factor in the deci­sion to approach Wenc, Rocca said. 
In addition, there has been "a general concern (in the Ad­ministration) over the last couple of years" about the names of the teams, he said. 
Although Tyson said he has not seen the names of this year's teams, he said some names he has seen in the past were "strong with reverse 
meanings  and  double  
meanings that.  were hardly  
double."  

In the beginning, The one grand beginning, The beginning to begin all beginnings, God created all to sustain beginnings. Since then, the Universe has never stopped begin­ning. The endings began to begin. Ending began soon after beginning, And the Universe has never stopped ending. Life-the continuous whole-Filled with beginnings and endings. 
b. thd t -Colleen Cushnie 
Happy tr ay o Co11een Who began 21 years ago. May all your beginnings Be blessed with happy endings Much love from your family! XX.n...n...n.. 
welcome from Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev dominated television newscasts and the front pages. 
Healey, who accompanied Labor leader Neil Kinnock to the meeting with Reagan, told reporters in London: "He (Reagan) did not understand this area (Labor's defense policy). He was not capable of making a response. He just nodded his head." 
Healey said Reagan also greeted him with the words, "Nice to see you again, Mr. Ambassador,'' while British ambassador Sir Antony Acland stood by. 
room was caused by smoke rather than fire, said Smith. 
The damage was extensive, according to Gamino. He said most of the furniture was still usable, although the couch, bedcovers, and ceiling tiles were badly smoke-damaged and the carpet was water­damaged. 
Smith said the room's resi­dents are staying with friends in the dorm until the cleanup of the room is completed. 
Some also contained harrass­ment of individuals, he added. 
If the name changes had not .been made, Tyson said his of­fice may have cancelled the tournament. "I'm not going to tolerate harrassment," he said. "The issue is basketball, not names." 
Monday, March 30, 1987-page 4 
Security Beat 
Thursday 
7:40p.m.-A resident from Pangborn Hall reported the theft of a jacket from the Rockne Memorial. The jacket was taken from outside one of the racquetball courts. The jacket was valued at $90. 
7:45 p.m. -Two vehicles were in­volved in a property damage11on­injury traffic accident in the C-1 lot. One car was in the process of backing up when the accident occured. No estimate of damages has been set at this time. 
9:22p.m. -A LaPorte, Ind. resident reported that vandalism had been done to his car. The vehicle was parked in the C-llot when apparently an unknown person threw a piece of cement through one of the car win­dows. Damage is estimated at $50. 
Friday 
1:58 p.m.-A resident of Pangborn Hall reported the theft of a textbook from the lobby of the South Dining Hall. The victim stated he left the book on one of the shelves in the lobby and uporrreturn found that the book was gone. Loss is estimated at $45. 
3:35p.m.-A resident of Flanner Hall was the victim of a bike theft. A friend had borrowed the bike and locked it in front of Walsh Hall. Upon his return, the bike was gone. There are no suspects. Loss is estimated at $300. 
3:35p.m. -A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his bookbag. The bag and its contents were taken from the lobby of the South Dining Hall between 11 a.m. and noon. Loss is estimated at $120. 
4:15 p.m. -An off-campus resident reported the theft of his gym bag and its contents from the lobby of the South Dining Hall. The theft oc­curred at approximately 1:30 p.m. There are no suspects at this time. 
4:30p.m.-Another bookbag was re­ported stolen from the South Dining Hall lobby. A Morrissey Hall resi­dent had his bag taken sometime during the lunch hour. Loss is esti­mated at $50. 
11:15 p.m. -Two students were ap­prehended for a violation of the Uni­versity alcohol policy and for urinat­ing on the Director of Security's vehicle in the Stepan lot. 
Saturday 
1:20 a.m. -Building Services em­ployee reported the theft of two ''Wet Floor" signs from the main lobby of LaFortune Student Center. The signs are approximately 3 feet tall by 2 
feet wide and  are  valued at $50  a  
piece.  
2:30a.m.  -Again at  LaFortune,  a  

custodian reported that a women's restroom sign was taken from the wall. The sign was valued at $15. 
11: 15 a.m. -A student-employee of the South Dining Hall reported that her coat and sweatshirt were taken from an employee coat rack in the lower level of the dining hall. Loss is estimated at $50. 
9 p.m. -A resident of Badin Hall re­ported the theft of her bike. The bike had been left unsecured in front of Badin for approximately 24 hours. The bike was valued at $150. 
REO Speedwagon Concert: While working in and around the ACC, se­curity officers caught several people illegally selling t-shirts. One subject was arrested on a charge of criminal trespassing, a Class A misdemeanor. The subject was detained at the St. Joseph County Jail. Also, 7 people were found to be in possession of ma­rijuana by security officers. Each of the five cases will be turned over to the St. Joseph County Prosecutors Office for further action. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
rNDAVE~APTs.-1
l Early Bird Special ! 
~ Now renting for Fall ~ § 2 Bedrooms completely §t furnished § § Sign up before break and ~ ~ receive a 10% discount ~ § Call 234-6647 ~ ~ Protected by Pinkerton Security ~ 
i~~-·.Q>·.Q>~~.!~.Y....b;·q.·.,b.cQ'>-$;•.Q'>·q..q.·./......-.~ 
THE IMPACT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ON SOCIETY 
A Series of Lectures by Distinguished Visiting Scholars to Inaugurate the PROGRAM IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND VALUES 
at the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
HARVEY BROOKS 
Benjamin Pierce Professor of Technology and Public Policy 
Harvard University 
"WHAT TO DO WHEN THE EXPERTS DISAGREE? TECHNOLOGICAL DECISION MAKING IN A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY" 
7:30 P.M. Professor Brooks, an Influential government adviser on science and technology policy, played a major role In establishing the
Tuesday, March 31, 1987 Memorial Library AudHortum Congressional Office of Technology Assessment. Among. his books are The Government of Science and Science for Public Polley. 
"ieVV~_O_i_n_t______________
M-onday-,Ma-rch30_,198-7-pa-ge5 
Prosecutor clarifies Pre-trial Diversion Program 

I read Chris Murphy's Feb. 26 inside column and believe several things need to be said in order that the Notre Dame community fully understands both the consequences of alleged violations of the Indiana criminal law and the man­ner in which the Office of the St. Joseph County Prosecuting Attorney attempts to deal with first-time misdemeanor of­fenders. 
Michael Barnes 
guest column 
It is a fact that a person who is under 21 years of age and who is on the premises of a tavern commits a cri­minal offense, that being minor in a tavern, I.C.7-15-7-10, which is a Class C misdemeanor offense. The maximum penalties for a Class C Misdemeanor are a fine of $500 and a 60 day jail term. 
It has always been an office policy that when it is appropriate and possible, area police agencies and the State Ex­cise Police have been instructed to simply "ticket" those who may be guilty of this type offense so that the alleged defendants can be spared the formal ar­rest process -which would include photographs being taken of the defen­dants and a formal fingerprinting at the 
Schedule distribution delayed due to names 
Dear Editor: 
As Commissioner of Bookstore Bas­ketball XVI, I would like to offer an apology to all of the team captains who conscientiously attended the Bookstore Captain's Meeting on Wednesday, March 25th. The schedules for the Tournament were completed and ready for distribution that night, but distribu­tion was delayed by the action of the Student Activities Office, due to their objections to the publication of certain names contained in the schedule. This decision was out of my hands and there were no measures which I could take to make distribution possible on the night of the Captain's Meeting. I did County jail, and the posting of bond to be released from the jail. We think that is a wise policy, and thus ''tickets'' have become the norm in St. Joseph County to address the conduct ·Mr. Murphy speaks of in his editorial. 
What information that officers com­municate at the scene is always a sub­ject of debate, but there can be no mis­take that the crimes alleged against Mr. Murphy and others who were arrested at Lee's Barbeque are, in fact, Class C Misdemeanors. 
Our Pre-trial Diversion Program of­fers first time misdemeanor offenders the opportunity to do community­service work, and given the specific cir­cumstances of a particular case, enter into any other sort of condition, in order that the person charged not take the risk of having a formal criminal con­viction on his or her record if that person either pleads guilty or is found guilty of having committed an offense. If one has no concern with regard to a criminal conviction being entered into a per­manent criminal history, then the Pre­trial Diversion Program has little, if any inducement. 
No one is forced to opt for the pro­gram. One who is charged with a cri­minal offense has several alternatives to pursue. They include pleading guilty to the offense, or pleading not guilty and having the Court of jury determine whe­ther or not there is sufficient evidence to find that person guilty of the offense charged. 
The raids on Lee's and subsequent raids on some homes around the Notre Dame area resulted in the ticketing of many who were under the age of 21 years. Some of these offenses alleged being a minor in a tavern, a minor in possession of alcohol, a minor consum­ing alcohol, or other offenses. All who were so cited may explore every altern­ative available to them under the law. 
In Mr. Murphy's specific case, he was notified that our Pre-Trial Diversion Program was such an alternative. He chose to avail himself of that option. He signed an agreement with this Office which outlined his responsibilities and obligations. 
A complete explanation of that agree­ment was given, and we presume that a Notre Dame student can read and comprehend a document which is pur­posely geared to be read and under­stood by one with an elementary school education. 
The Pre-Trial Diversion Program was not formulated specifically for Notre Dame students. It is a program available to all in our community who qualify and choose to participate. Notre Dame students comprise about 15 per 
not give the specific reason for the schedules not being available at the meeting because I did not want to make the problem public issue while I was in the process of negotiating with Student Activities. My primary concern was to insure that the tournament could and will still run despite the difficulties. 
I am also forced to extend apologies to the members of the teams who have had their team names deleted or al­tered. There was no time in which to contact you for an alternate name. The names were altered in order to make the final copy of the schedule accep­table to all concerned. Failure to alter the schedule could have resulted, at 
worst,  in  the  possible  end  of  the  
Bookstore  Basketball  tournament.  
Therefore,  names  were  reconsidered  

by a student committee, ultimately working in agreement with the Office of Student Activities. A large number 
of names have been replaced by team numbers. Those teams will be notified of the changes made. If you have a question over the fate of your team name or your place in the final schedule, please contact a member of the Bookstore staff. The only other al­ternative given to us was to use num­bers and the names of the team cap­tains to identify all of the teams. This route was taken with the schedule a number of years ago and we felt it was better to preserve the majority of the team names than to sacrifice them all. 
My staff and I have done our best to insure that the schedules will be ready for distribution on Monday, March 30th in the SAB office in LaFortune between 3 and 6 pm. Regardless, the tournament will begin on March 31st with the annual Hall of Fame game and the first 30 games of the 1st round. 
My thanks to all of the team captains 

cent of the total persons who have en­
rolled in this specific program. 
No one can answer as to how a future 
employer may react to a misdemeanor 
conviction. We believe that the choice 
to enroll in the Program is one which 
should be offered and that choice should 
be made by an individual after carefully 
exploring all of the legal options avail­
able. 

Mr. Murphy also questions whether or not there are records kept of such convictions. These records are kept, they are reported to the Indiana State Police to be made part of the permanent criminal history of an individual, and that information is available to those authorized to seek and secure such in­formation. 
We are proud of our Pre-Trial Diver­sion Program and consider it one which is both beneficial to our community and to the individuals who enroll in it. It makes sense to us, and we do not have an interest in whether one enrolls in the Program or not. We simply are proud that such an alternative exists for those who wish to take advantage of it. 
I suspect that the problem with Mr. Murphy is that he. did not like the answers to his questions -not that his questions were not answered. 
Michael P. Barnes is the Prosecuting Attorney of St. Joseph County. 
P.O.BoxQ 
for their cooperation and to my staff for their poise during these difficulties. I would also like to thank Fr. Malloy for his moral support and calm and ra­tional responses to my anxieties and problems, and to Fr. Rocca and Fr. Tyson for taking the time to listen to my position and for offering their aid to assure that the schedule could be published with team names. 
Steve Wenc Tournament Commissioner Bookstore Basketball XVI 
Viewpoint welcomes quotes from its readers 
Quote of the day _ 
"Morality is its own ad­vocate: it is not necessary to apologize for it." 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 · 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager.......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor ...................................Chris Murphy Projects Manager ..........................Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 
Monday, March 30, 1987-page 6 
REO rocks the ACC 
Georgia . 
Satellites open 
TOM BEATIY features copy editor 

REO Speedwagon pulled Into the ACC Saturday evening, with special guests the Georgia Satel­lites, and the 6,000 plus scream­ing fans were treated to a night of solid rock 'n' roll. 
The Georgia Satellites opened the evening with two sets of southern-fried rock that had spe­cial appeal for the flannel shirt and chewing tobacco c;:rowd. They had plenty ofaudience par­ticipation on a few numbers, es­pecially when the crowd thun­dered, "Don't give me no lines, and keep your hands to your­self." The gentlemen from Geor­gia delivered well-written tunes with a freight train rhythm, and had the crowd fired up for the main act. 
After a lengthy intermission, REO Speedwagon emerged from the depths of their imaginative set, with dry Ice fog surrounding the band as they took the stage. They immediately broke Into "That Ain't Love," a catchy release from their ne\\t album, and followed with a set of ma­terial that was a mix of the old and new REO, with vintage tunes like "Take It on the Run" and "Time For Me to Fly," blended with recent releases, like "One Too Many Girlfriends." 
Lead singer ahd rhythm guitar player Kevin Cronin was in prime form, belting out melodies and hitting the high notes without a break. Lead guitarist Gary Richrath had several screaming guitar runs, and It appears he has truly sweetened with age. Keyboardist Neal Doughty has streamlined his act in the past few years, and now sticks to a single synthesizer. As in years past, he provided a clean back­ground sound, with a few inter­esting solos. Drummer Alan 
•

for main act 

Gratzner worked his Ludwig set their first album, which was for all it was worth, and bassist released In early 1971. They Bruce Hall laid down a catchy hung together through the lean tempo for all the songs. years of the '70s and finally con­nected with "You Get What You The stage and the light show Play For," a 1977 live release that were both terrific, adding a new went double platinum. In 1980 dimension to the concert. The they released "HI-Infidelity," an stage consisted of two Egyptian album which sold nearly 8 mil­pyramids, with various levels and lion copies worldwide, and es­platforms for the musicians to tablished the band as a staple of wander on while playing. The American pop music. "Life As We light show was Itself a spectacle, Know It" is the band's 14th al­made up of shifting panels and bum in 16 years, and according banks oflights that drenched the to lead singer and songwriter stage in an ever changing array Kevin Cronin, "We've worked of hues. harder than ever before on this 
album. We left no stone unturned 
REO is currently midway as far as packing every song with through their "Life As We Know every idea we had." Cronin con­It" tour, and this new album is tinues, "All the songs are about their latest In a series of discs the things that have happened from Epic Records. The same to us in the past two years. It band members have been really is about life as we know playing together as REO since it." 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
All My Children: The mystery shooter took aim and grazed Travis. Jeremy now believes his premonition was directed at Travis, not Erica. Erica reassured Travis she was over Jeremy. Natalie was upset at Ross' con­fession of love. Coming: Palmer Insists he'll make Natalie his wife. 
Another World: Adam had a nightmare about the killer and woke with his hands around 
M.J.'s throat. Michael got emo­tional when he looked at the pic­ture and saw the man who looked like John. He left for Mexico to pursue leads and was nearly killed by a scorpion he believed had been planted In his bed. Coming: Cheryl begins to fall for Chad's lines. 
As The World Turns: Iva was shocked to learn about Sierra's plans and feared she was losing Craig forever. Earl had a lead that might give more information about the Falcon. Sabrina's plans upset Bob and Kim. · Coming: Duncan is forced to deal with an unpleasant fact of life. 
The Bold and the Beautiful: Eric began his new power ploy. Coming: Surprising develop­ments cause him to rethink his 
plans. Dallas: J.R. and Bobby moved closer to the goal of acquiring the 10 percent of Ewing oil. Sue Ellen made her decision regard­ing J.R.'s request that she move back in with him. Pam was ~till 
enough to her needs. Roxy was unsure about how to relate to Johnny. Henry's health remained precarious. Coming: Phillip has a surprise for Allen. 
Knots Landing: Karen insisted she won't allow Anne to keep living next door, but Anne made 
it plain she intended to stay close to Mac, her ex-lover. Ben still feared for his family's safety. Abbie got Peter to take Olivia as his youth adviser on the anti· drugcommission. Coming: Anne begins her plan to counter Karen's moves. 
Loving: Cecilia warned Steve he'll pay for trying to leave her for Trisha. A second gun was found. Shana was upset at the business decision Clay made without consulting her. Trlsha confessed to killing Rick, but Steve insisted he was the killer. Coming: New evidence points to a surprise suspect. 
One Life To Live: Vickie under­went brain surgery and began to see a bright light. Someone 
named Virgil beckoned to her. She followed him and met Meredith, Joe and Tony. She also thought she heard her father, 
Victor, calling to her. She held on out of concern for her loved ones on earth, although Virgil told her to letgo. Meanwhile, she was put on life support but was falling rapidly. Pat noticed how Marla clung to Clint. Coming: 
furious at Cliff after learnmg Vickie gives Virgil her decision. 
more about the Jeremy deal. Coming: Bobby and J.R. risk a dangerous move. 
Days of Our Lives: Shane warned Kimberly that moving in with him could be dangerous for her and Andrew. Orpheus tor­mented Roman with a tape of Marlena and refused to acknowl­edge If she's dead or still alive. Shane began to believe Julian was the murderer. Coming: New medical tests reveal another problem for Maggie. 
falcon Crest: Angela's prom­Ise to help Lance Is broken when she realizes It's more important to protect her grandson than his father. Richard finally got his revenge on Angela. Melissa's debut was a smash hit. Coming: Dan reconsiders a difficult deci­sion. 
General Hospital: Jake and Bobble reconciled. Sean and Don Shuler totalled up their In· vestors and realized they needed $2 million more. They Jured Ed­ward into the deal. Cory, the suicidal teenager became violent after waking frorr. a nightmare. Greta told Connie someone was out to kill her. Coming: Anna worries about the charges that she covered up Angus' death. 
. 

Guiding Light: Reva fretted that Josh might become too de­manding after their baby is born and wasn't being sensitive 
Ryan's Hope: Melinda under­went surgery and had an out-of­body experience. ~'::it insisted they do more tests but Melinda refused to be anaesthetized again. Jon told Lizzie he was fal· ling in love with her. Once again, Maggie tried to humiliate Delia and once again she caused Della to become a sensation instead. Coming: Ryan may not fulfill. 
Santa Barbara: Keith insisted that Tori tell him what she said to stop the rapist from complet­ing the crime. Julia felt Jake·s alibi for the night of the rape was not strong enough. Warren left town to start a new life. Santana urged Ted to join Hayley and Sharon, her rape counselor, to talk things outtogether. Coming: Tori worries that Mason is hold­ing something back that could change their relationship. 
The Young ~ The Restless: Andy was afraid faren might fall into Evan's emotional trap and he would lose her forever. Julia continued to deny to Nikki that she would be the one to take her place now that Casey bowed out. Nikki was upset at the possibility that Victor really might turn to Ashley Instead. Coming: Ashley 
makes a startling statement to i Steve. 
1987, ('-feNaught Syndicate 

The Observer 
Monday, March 30, 1987-page 7 
Title
Sports Briefs 
continuedfrom page 12 
John Olmstead scored the winning goal in overtime to give the Irish lacrosse team an 11-10 victory over Col­gate. Details will appear in tomorrow's issue. -The Obser­ver 
The ND golf finished eighth out of 17 teams at the Eastern Kentucky Invitational in Richmond, Ky. John Con­nelly led the Irish with a three-round total of 227. Details will appear in tomorrow's issue. -The Observer 
Dick Motta, head coach of the Dallas Mavericks, notched his SOOth career victory when his Mavericks defeated the Washington Bullets 114-107 Saturday night. In 19 seasons and 1,548 games in the National Basketball Association, Motta is third on the all-time victory list. The retired Red Auerbach of the Boston Celtics tops the list with 938 victories, followed by Indiana's Jack Ramsay, who won his 821st NBA game Saturday night. -Associated Press 
Bookstore Basketball XVI schedules can be picked up team captains today at the SAB office on the second floor of LaFortune between 3-6 p.m. For more in­formation contact Steve Wenc at 283-4074. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball referees will have an organizational meeting Thursday, April2, at 7 p.m. at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone interested in officiat­ing is encouraged to attend. For more information or to sign up before the meeting, contact Warren Berry at 283­1206. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball late sign-ups will be held today and Tuesday from 3 to 5 p.m. at the An Tostal office in LaFortune. A $5 entry fee is needed to sign-up. -The Observer 
In the NHL last night, Buffalo threatened its own extinction from the playoffs by losing to Edmonton 3-2. Toronto kept things exciting in the Norris Division race, beating Winnipeg 6-2 while Chicago fell to Boston 8-6 and Washington upended Minnesota 4-2. St. Louis handled New Jersey 4-1 and Montreal beat Pittsburgh 4-1. -Associated Press 
In the NBA last night, Boston beat Philadelphia 118-100, Chicago downed New York 115-96, Portland romped on San Antonio 135-113, Dallas beat Cleveland 101­98 and Detroit edged Seattle 108-107. -Associated Press 
The ND judo club edged Purdue for the team championship at the Lafayette Judo Tournament Satur­day. The team took the top two spots in individual com­petition in the women's lightweight, men's under-156 pounds and men's under 172-pounds divisions. -The Obser­ver 
The An Tostal ultimate frisbee tournament will have an organizational meeting Tuesday at 7:30p.m. at 123 Nieuwland for those interested in forming teams. For more information contact Pat Dunne at 283-1562. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
tier belted a grand slam over the right field fence, and when Ray Szajko stole home later in the inning, the Irish were ahead, 9-8. 
But just when it looked as if the Irish were about to cure their acute case of "Hoosieritis" that had saddled them with four losses this year, the game was called because of darkness. Since the game had not yet reached the five­inning requirement for a full game, the game was canceled and erased from the record books. 
Saturday the Irish split a pair of games at Ball State. In the first game, the Irish could manage just four hits, and 
Kevin  Chenail  was  saddled  
with the  tough  loss in  a  4-2  
score.  

Notre Dame won the second game in extra innings, 3-2, as the Irish received strong pitch­ing from Brian Piotrowicz, Mike Harmon and John Gleeson, who got the win. Ball State appeared to have scored the go-ahead run in the sixth inning of the nightcap, but Paul Whitesell of the Cardinals missed a base on his way home from teammate Tye Allen's double, and was ruled out. 
Notre Dame will next face Bethel Tuesday at 2 p.m. at Jake Kline Field. 
The ObMinr Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Ob8ernr Saint M8JY's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. unti13 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
Lost: Lev1's Jeans Jacket Captain, Party, Kristen, A.C., and Krazy, ANTI-REAGAN PEACE LOVERS DEAR JOEL: IT'S BEEN 9 112 WEEKS. My Levi's jeans jacket disappeared from Thanks for a GREAT vacation. The Doc· 
UNITE!! LET'S ADD ON WHERE THE SCRIPT
NOTICES I PERSONALS
2nd floor Lewis during a party on Sat. tor 
YOUR LEADER IS COMING OF AGEl!! LEFT OFF. night. A laundry tag sewn on the inside 
JOIN HER IN HER QUEST FOR :SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $319 back of the jacket reads P.E.Oeschger. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOR, 
HETEROGENEITY AT N.D. If found please call Paul at 2287. No CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE FABULOUS
Lowest Scheduled AirFares to all of ONLY SKILLED SHOTGUNNERS AND Europe. Call 1 (800) 325·2222 dept. 518. DICE ROLLERS NEED APPLY.
questions asked. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. GORGEOUS In the last two years I've worn that jacket BEAUTIFUL BLONDE BABES FROM 
DRUIDS will rule the known universe.
HAPPY 20TH TO OUR LITILE Watch lor this weekend's ceremonies ­
Wordprocessing-Typ1ng to 1 0 countries and washed it just three 1ST SOURCE BANK CAUFORNIA WE CAN'T GIVE YOU LIBERAL! time and place TBA.
times. The accumulated dirt on it has a Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Financ­BUT WE CAN GIVE YOU NO'S BEST great deal of sentimental value Ing available for all US atlltea. LIVE ROCK SEE Stonehenge lives ... MONAACH:MON$A.BAR 
272-8827 LOVE, R.A.D. 
................................................ 
Typing LATE,TUECHIP'S,FAI'tHEO'S NAZZ Captain Vanity, Mr. Hickey-
Free Pickup and Delivery •• Spring Break Travel to New York?" COMP : Would you like sour cream on de taco? 
" Buy Now & Save " Thank you for bringing back CIRCUS
277-7406 Yes, and a large Squirt. Doctor. Antichrist. and Party 
" $90 AT Tix to Newark " THE TRIBE LUNCH! Paul & Joe
" Leave 3'12, Return 3-21 " This is their year . EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL •• Call X3586 NOW " Opening day is fast approaching ... MRS. COKER. 233-7009. SIMPLE MEAL! 
.......................................... .. .. 
FOR RENT 
Bill Hickey-Wordproceaalng This Bud's for you.
277-8131 6 bedroom 4-6 students $40(}500 & Need GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at SIMPLE MEALI The guys from Circus Lunch
utilities. Security system 234 6688 2687. Beav, The muffin found no gold this ENDAD SUM STOR:alt belonings(incl LARGEST selection of Clifi.Monarch weekend Glad you're beck When I look SIMPLE MEAL! fur)saf~ecure Bill M.2327416 Notes in Michiana! Bu)I'Sell--ltextbooks at you, I see stars and supernovas A dream has come true. CIRCUS LUNCH 
$$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard SHARE LARGE HOUSE WITH NO St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 has returned. 
TYPING AVAILABLE Cahonous flows Tummy want wubbed? 
Lovey-poo Chantal 287-4082 GRAD THIS SUMMER. $112 MO. e UTIL. 289-8792, PAUL. N.D. GLEE CLUB SPRING CONCERT Are you going to 
8:15 p.m.-Fri., April 3 Washington Hall 
be here for 
Ticket voucher distnbution Tues., Mar. 365 days to CIRCUS LUNCH Ill
SUMMER SCHOOL??? Farfa :Your brown celestial bodies float­31-·1 p.m. ·3 p.m. Washington Hall ing about your voluptuous cream colored. 
Manager's Office If so, The Observer needs your help in heavenly sphere turns me on. COME

LOST/FOUND IIL-_w_A_N_TE_D_____. 
producing some summer issues of the PUMP ME UP BABY!! jack "I feel like a five year old at Disney World 
newspaper. 
for the first time. CIRCUS LUNCH hasLOST: GOLD CHAIN BRACELET. IF GOVERNMENT JOBS! Now hiring in The jobs are varied and, if you are inter­FOUND CALL 2905 your area, both skilled and unskilled. For ested in newspaper training in your spare 
returned." PRODUCTION PEOPLE: If you don't
list of jobs and application. Call time, call The Observer offices and ask 
show up for the staff meeting mentioned
Found-shoes in NO Golf Course lot last (615) 383-2627 Ext J316. for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
elsewhere in the classifieds, you will be
Friday. Call 239-6767. The Observer • On Tuesday, March 31, both Dining Halls 
locked in the production closet and CIRCUS LUNCH • who cereal
and will be serving a Simple Meal. Pleasebeaten with ptca poles until you are dead, 
LOST-Sun.,3-22,on campus in or near SUMMER JOBS Special Olympics make the sacrifice and feel how the other 
dead. dead.

Sacred Heart Church or in South Dining ALL LANDWATER SPORTS NEEDS YOUIII two-thirds of the world live. This event is 
················· 

Hall Cafe.:18k. gold circular lapel pin. In· PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK sponsored by the Charity Ball and the trinsiO' Sentimental value. MOUNTAINS TO THE TALL GUY WHO AT-E MY CAR· 
World Hunger Coalition. REWARD.232-8732. CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 ROTS AT LUNCH FRI IN SOH: THE
Hey, Stanford Studs! Elect "Mr. BIG' for .................. 381-4224 LEAST YOU COULD HAVE DONE IS
the job Marc Gianzero for President 007 is beck in his latest adventure •• FOUND ··SET OF KEYS ON STEPAN DRAIN RAKER INTRODUCE YOURSELF! INTERHALL FOOTBALL FIELDS. IF • SOPHOMORE SIBS Stay tuned, Her Majesty's Secret Ser­YOU LIVE IN ROOM 236 OF SOME ADOPTION: We're a happily married vice depends on it ... Mike and Frank, HAPPY 21st! Welcome
• SOPHOMORE SIBS 
DORM. THESE KEYS ARE YOURS!! couple {physiciarlPsychologist) who PLANT LOVERS OF THE WORLD BE· to the club. We beat you there! See you
: SOPHOMORE SIBS CALL WARREN AT 283-1206 TO deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We can at the Club tonight? : Love your Lyons
WAREt SIGN UPS FRI 3-26 & MON 300 1·5 PM TO THE NEW NEWS STAFF: 'CLAIM. provide lots of love, opportunities, and a That madman from El Sal11ador. Gian· IN LAFORTUNE Great job on the papers this week. B-day pals 
warm welcome from family and friends. carlo Miranda, has been spotted in Cal­MAIN LOUNGE. DONT MISS IT 11!111 Thanks lor all your hard work. LOST: One pearl earring somewhere in Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call ifornia christening plants with his own : SOPHOMORE SIBS DOGS OF ALUMNI
·JA and CB 
or between Lyons and LaFortune the first Ellia'Aian collect (212)· 724-7942. special fertilizer. His most common : SOPHOMORE SIBS THE TIME IS NOW FOR REAL LEAD­week of March. If you found it could you victims are large, potted plants in public SOPHOMORE SIBS ERSHIP. VOTE FOR WINKS AND please call P.J. at x3023 or x2999. RIDE NEEDED: To New York City ASAP. places. To avoid losing your precious NAPES. WE WANT YOUR IDEAS, AND Thanks. Please call David Hennekes at 3670. . plant to this crazed plant killer, lock your YOUR HELP. VOTE WINKS AND 
liquor cabinet and keep plants indoors. SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHOMORE NAPES. Lost -Maroon. National Gallery POSTEA RIDE NEEDED To Toledo, Ohio on 4-03 Thla haa been • meaaege from the SIBS and return 4<!5. Will pay $. Call John
TUBE with Utrillo print inside. Left be· Society for the : SOPHOMORE SIBS ........................\ .......................... tween Grace and the East Gate Security 3559 Prevention of Cruelty to Potted Pienta SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHOMORE GRACE HALL house on the Friday before break. Great SIBS ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTOR FEVER· VOTE WED sentimental value. Call Ann 2595 SIGN UPS FRI 3-27 & 300 t-5 PM IN .CONTRACT rTI DOYUS1...ESE David Niven, Sean Connery, George LAFORTUNE MAIN PAESVICE PRES HELP! I LOST MY BOOKBAG IN THE FOR SALE Lazenby, Roger Moore, Timothy Dalton : LOUNGE . DONT MISS ITIIIII BOOKSTORE. I AEALL Y NEED THE and the best Bond of them all, B. David : SOPHOMORE SIBS MR. HALL, BIG BOY IS BEGGING FOR GLASSES THAT WERE IN THERE. Lennert --all coming soon to a DRAIN : SOPHOMORE SIBS YOUR COOPERATION. WE ADVISE SOME CALL HER ALALICE AND SOME Compact Disk Player for sale. Audiophile 
CALL ERIC AEINKOBER £3528. near you. Stay tuned for more details. : SOPHOMORE SIBS YOU TO COMPLY BEFORE FURTHER CALL HER MARIO;WHATEVER HER quality NAKAMICHI OMS-7. Program­
PAIN IS INFLICTED. STAY ADVISED. NAME IS WE LOVE HER! DOREEN mable. Remote. Lists for $1,295.00 but 
WVFJ..AM 64 GIVEAWAYS! THE "NAPPEAS" MURPHY IS 19! HAVE A GREAT ONEI­will sell for $600.00. Call even1ngs before WVFJ..AM 64 GIVEAWAYS! 
:SOPHOMORESIBS US 10 pm at277-5912 or days at 239-7133. HUEY LEWIS AND THE NEWS TIX, PIZ· :SOPHOMORESIBS 
Attention all BOBS: LOST: TWO GOLD CHAINS IN AM219 
ZA, TANNING SALON VISITS, HAIR­: SIGN UPS FAI 3-27 & MON 3'30 1·5 : NANCY LAUEN GREG OF ROCKNE WED. MARCH 11 Round trip ticket to D.C. for Easter $100. 
CUTS, DINNERS FOR TWO AT LOCAL PM LA FORTUNE : tuma 20 todayl She would low It If I was gOtng to wish youBEFORE BREAK GOLD TEDDYBEAR If interested call T ash at 277 5626 
RESTo\URANTS, CAKES AND PIES, · MAIN LOUNGE. DONT MISS ITIIIII you would call x2885 and wlah her HAPPY BIRTHDAY PENDENT ON ONE. PLEASE HELP. NO 
AND MORE IIIII TUNE IN TO WVFI-AM :SOPHOMORESIBS Happy Birthday! :HAPPY BIRTHDAY but seeing as how you forgot MY birthday QUESTIONS ASKED. KATHY WALSH Great golf clubs for sale! Cheap! 21-PW, 
54 FOR GIVEAWAYS :SOPHOMORESIBS NANCE! I decided to clip my toenails instead. 109 2699. 1 ,3,5W, putt, bag. Call Eric at 1758. 
ANITA 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~-­
-----~----------------------------~--~------------------------­
The Observer Monday, March 30, 1987-page 8 

Indiana 
continuedfrom page 12 
standpoints. 
''The only significance at this point for me is what it means to our players," Knight said "I wanted it badly for the kids to have_the opportunity.'' 
''I tend to think of things in terms of our program, and not things where I am concerned," Boeheim said. 
For the record, the od­dsmakers say Knight will be the winner, that his third­ranked Hoosiers are 3-point favorites for the Superdome contest which gets under way at 8:12p.m. EST. 
While the two teams have never met before, they are not all that different. Both have balanced scoring and both are highly selective about using the 3-point shot. Indiana made two of four Saturday, while Syracuse hit three of eight. 
Both shared their conference championships, 29-4 Indiana with Purdue in the Big Ten and 31-6 Syracuse with Georgetown and Pitt in the Big East. 
The lOth-ranked Orangemen must first and foremost stop Steve Alford, a two-time All­American guard and the leading scorer in Indiana his­tory. But he won't be the only focus for Boeheim's defense. 
"With Indiana," Boeheim said Sunday, "I don't think there is anyone you can leave open at any time. Alford's a great shooter and he can do a lot of things to hurt you.
Center Dean Garrett has added strength to In­
"Any one of the other four
diana's front line, contributing 11.4 points and 
players has scored 20 points in 
Alford 
continuedfrom page 12 
mine. It has been financially and physically a very exhaust­ing year.'' 
The younger Alford, averag­ing 22 points this season for the 29-4 Hoosiers with a career total of 2,415 points, said his biggest disappointment in bas­ketball was not taking his fa­ther's team into the Final Four of the Indiana high school tournament as a senior. New Castle lost to eventual state champion Connersville in the title game of their semistate despite a 37-point performance by Alford. 
Alford had a record 94 points for the two semistate games, including 57 in the semifinals. 
The elder Alford proudly rattles off the accomplish­ments of his son, who needs 25 points against Syracuse to be­come the Big Ten Conference's career-scoring leader. 
"Steve has made it to the 

NCAA fin~, b~ I koow won't be satisfied unless he gets that championship," his father said. "But, he's had a remarkable career so far and 
Anti·Violenca Activist ­
Center lor Teaching Non·Violence & NCTV full-time staff. Lodging & $6000/yr. Research on aggression, clearinghouse, publishing & lobbying against violence Including TV, film, war toys, sparta, erotica. Next to U Illinois. Student loans deferable. 217-384-1920. P 0. Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820 


it's nice. He was named In­diana's Mr. Basketball, played on the winning team in the 1983 National Sports Festival, won an Olympic gold medal, a Big Ten championship and became the career-scoring leader at In­diana, a school with one of the best basketball traditions in the country.'' 
As a coach, the elder Alford respects the way Knight con­ducts his program and says his son never has complained about his treatment by the tem­peramental Indiana coach. 
"Knight is tough. He's a dis­ciplinarian, but he's up front right from the start," Alford said. "When he recruited Steve, he warned, 'I'm going to work you the hardest you ever have.' He knew the skills that Steve had, but he also knew there was work ahead." 
The Indiana senior guard is expected to be a first-round pick in this year's NBA draft and his father plans on being his son's agent. 
''I never expected him to a game and can do it again." reach the level he's achieved," 
the elder Alford said. 
He also anticipates that Al­ford may surprise a few people in the NBA. 

The Matchup lnd Syr The Sports Department is now accepting applications for the
Record 29-4 31-6 
Home Record 19-0 17-2 
following position: Road Record 7-4 7-3 Neutral Sites 3-0 7-1 Overtime Games 1-0 0-1 3 Points and Under 7-1 1-4 
Assistant Sports Editor (1)
1 0 Points or More 14-2 18-2 Average Points 82.3 83.0 Opponent's Avg. Pts. 70.9 72.7 Margin 11.4 10.3 
A one-page personal statement is due Tuesday, March 31, at 5 Field Goal Percent 51.4 51.7 
p.m. at the Observer office, third floor LaFortune. Questions
Opponent's FG Pet. 45.0 43.1 
should be directed to Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303.
3-Point FG Pet. 50.2 40.3 Opp. 3-Pt. FG Pet. 38.4 35.0 3-Pt FG Avg. 3.7 2.6 Opp. 3-Pt. FG Avg. 3.5 4.0 Free Throw Percent 77.0 65.2 Rebound Average 35.0 40.2 Opponent's Reb. Avg. 34.6 36.3 Rebound Margin .4 3.9 Assist Average 15.8 18.5 
Sunshine Promotions Presents
Opponent's Ast. Avg. 13.2 15.9 
~··················· 
Turnover Average 13.3 13.7 
Opponent's Tnvr. Avg. 15.5 15.4 
Blocks Average 4.0 5.1 
Opponent's Blks. Avg. 2.3 2.8 
Steals Average 6.3 7.3 
Opponent's Stls. Avg. 5.3 6.9 
HUEY 
He was talking about the Hoosiers' front line of 6-foot-10 Dean Garrett, 6-7 Daryl Thomas and 6-6 Rick Calloway and point guard Keith Smart. 
Garrett averages 11.4 points and 8.4 rebounds and has 90 blocks. Thomas averages 15.6 points and 5.7 rebounds. Cal­loway is good for 13 points a game and Smart 10.9. 
Syracuse also presents a multi-faceted offense with 6-10 Rony Seikaly, 6-9 Derrick Cole­man, 6-6 Howard Triche and guards Sherman Douglas and Greg Monroe. 
Like Indiana, Syracuse has five starters averaging in double figures: douglas at 17.3, Seikaly at 15.0, Monroe 12.9, Coleman 12.0 and Triche at 
11.9. Seikaly also averages 8.3 rebounds and has 75 blocks. 
"It's a team that will be dif­ficult to play against," said Knight, who previously won na­tional titles in 1976 and 1981. 
Alford, who scored 33 points in Indiana's 97-93 semifinal vic­tory over top-ranked Nevada­Las Vegas Saturday, is averag­ing 22 points and has 2,415 in his career. 
Boeheim, whose team beat Providence 77-63 in the other semifinal, said he watched In­diana's semifinal win and the tape of it. 
"When Alford played the way he did yesterday, I don't know if they are heatable," he said. "The games they've played well, they just seem to beat anybody." 
Douglas, a sophomore point guard, said Syracuse doesn't expect to stop Alford and just hopes to contain him. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~­
Summer 
LEWIS 
and
STORAGE 
The News
RESERVATION 
Sunday April 5 
CALL NOW 
683-1959 
7:30 pm Notre Dame ACC 
Reserved seats: $16.50
•VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2 V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 


•GA.TES OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY Tickets available at the ACC Gate 10 
Master Mini Warehouses Box Office or charge by phone 
(219) 239-7356 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 
~"-BE•S•T•LI•TI•L•E•.£m~~~~~~~~~l~-E-IN-M_.IC•H•IA•N•A~" ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 


The Observer 

AP Photo 
aiming for his third NCAA title tonight.
known for his antics on the sidelines, will be 
Crowds celebrate in Bloomington without severe problems 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Police reported few problems resulting from the celebration after Indiana's victory in the NCAA national basketball semifinal, but were bracing for large downtown crowds in the event of a championship vic­tory Monday night. 
"All and all it was pretty quiet,'' Bloomington police Lt. Stan Easton said of the tumult that followed Indiana's 97-93 victory over Nevada-Las Vegas in New Orleans Satur­day night. 
Crowds gathered at Showal­ter Fountain at the heart of IU, and at the corner of Dunn Street and Kirkwood Avenue, a block west of the campus. The few cars attempting to drive through the intersection were poundedJ rocked and used as 
impromptu parade  floats  by  
some  of  the  rowdiest  
celebrants.  

But records at the Monroe County Jail's booking desk Sun­day morning showed just 13 ar-
This Week
s!~c~ss~ar 
Only~ 

[B)@@lit TI @~ [[D)D~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ CCcoUUC9WC9 [}1JwiiJae!: ~[!leiei:afDU liD®u u f2l ~ corrrr ~u u fRlrEC@J C@l k.\re 0~ ®lFlF ~[}1J[Fl®[9Y (C[pl~~ 
Hours: 11 :30 -5:00 Basement of Lafortune 
rests apparently related to the post-game exuberence. Four people were arrested on drunken driving charges, two for public drunkeness, five for disorderly conduct and one each for interfering with a police officer and criminal recklessness. 
Police at the university and from the city department said there were assorted minor in­juries from people falling off vehicles, but no reports of major accidents or crimes. 
"You don't want anything to happen," Easton said. "But with that many people, you know it's going to. We didn't do too bad last night and, knock on wood, hopefully it'll be the same when we win Monday.'' 
For the championship the Hoosiers will battle Syracuse, which defeated Providence 77­63 Saturday. 
One person was arrested at IU for public intoxication and two for drunken driving, said Lt. Robert Schutte of the campus police department. 
Syracuse Celebrates 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. -Syracuse University basketball fans poured out into the streets Sat­urday afternoon, popping open champagne bottles, throwing oranges and climbing on cars and utility poles. 
And there's still a game to go. They were celebrating the Syracuse Orangemen's 77-63 
When Date Becomes A Rape 
Film Presentation and Discussion for Men and Women March 31 6:30-8:30 Haggar 117 

1987 Notre Dame Annual Fund Spring Phone-a-thon 
Notre Dame Student Volunteer Workers Needed March 24, 25, 26, 30, 31 April 1, 6, 7, 8 
6: 00 -9: 30 each evening 
You're an automatic winner! For one evening's work you earn: 
• 
a stipend for your dorm or favorite organization 

• 
a free long distance phone call home or to a friend anywhere in the U.S. 

• 
the chance to win one of several gift certificates awarded each night 

• 
a complimentary 1987 Phone-a-thon T-shirt 


• and more ... For more information call 239-5340 between 9 am -4:30 pm 
Monday, March 30, 1987-page 9 
Tenn. routs La. Tech for first NCAA title 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Sheila Frost came off the bench to score 13 points Sunday, igniting the Tennessee Lady Volunteers to their first NCAA women's bas­ketball championship with a 67­44 rout of favored Louisiana Tech. 
It was the first time Tennes­see Coach Pat Head Summitt had earned the national title al­though she's had eight teams in the Final Four. 
The victory came easier than expected over the Lady Techsters, 30-3, who had beaten the Lady Vols, 28-6, nine straight times, including a 72­60 triumph in February. 
It was sweet revenge for the Lady Vols, who had been defeated three times in the Final Four by Louisiana Tech. Tennessee is 2-11 against Tech. 
Tonya Edwards and Bridgette Gordon also had 13 points apiece for the Lady Vols. 
Tough rebounding and a tenacious, overplaying defense that denied the passing lanes victory Saturday over the Providence Friars in the na­tional basketball semifinals. Syracuse will play in its first national championship game ever Monday night, against In­diana University. 
won the game for the Southeas­ 
tern Conference champions.  
Tennessee held high-scoring Tori Harrison to eight points and All-American Teresa Weatherspoon had only 11  I I I ·I I  
points. Nora Lewis was high for  
the losers with 12.  
Tennessee took advantage of  
a  seven-minute cold spell by  
the Lady Techsters to run off  
a 13-5 spurt and a 33-24 halftime  
lead.  
Paulette Stall tied the score  
at 19 with a basket at 7: 11, but  
the  Lady  Techsters  couldn't  
score again until Lewis hit  a  
shot with 11 seconds left in the  
half.  
The Lady Vols steadily built  
the lead in the second half as  
Gordon scored seven points.  
The  victory snapped  a  19­ 
game Louisiana Tech winning  
streak, longest in the nation.  
All 15,615 tickets  were sold  
for  the  championship  game,  
but attendance was only 9,823.  
There  were  numerous  empty  
seats  because  Texas  was  
eliminated on Friday night by  
Louisiana Tech.  

"This is for the city," said fan Mike Read, who led chants at Mrs. O'Leary's bar on Bur­net Avenue. "This isn't just the university. This is the thing that brought everybody to­gether.'' 
At the university's commer­cial hub on Marshall Street, a plate glass window was shat­tered at the Varsity Restau­rant. Street signs were torn out of the concrete and two people were hurt when a mob destroyed a bus shelter. 
Mounted police, armed with bullhorns, urged fans to restore order, even coercing some to climb down from telephone poles. 
Still, there were no arrests, said Syracuse police officer Mi­chael DeFio. 
"It was just a lot of celebrat­ing," DeFio said. 
The Syracuse Herald-Journal published its first extra edition in almost a quarter-century, sending hawkers to University Hill and other locations to tell the story of the win. 
------~­
·---------­
Sisters Office Services 
TYPING 
**Term Papers** Reports Resume Preparation 
Grammar and Spelling Corrected 282-8593 425 N. Michigan Suite 202 South Bend, IN 46601 
Special Rates For Students 


-·~-----~-------------~--~-­
' J 
~ ~ 
The Observer 
~ 
\ 
\ 
I 
' 
i 
l \ \ 




~ 
'f~!}hf
I 
.····~ 

'(~{
i 
~ ~ ~ 
I 
) 
l ' l 
( 
l 
.' ~ 
! The Observer 1 David Fisher \ Shot putter Tom Kraus (above) and distance runner Tom
~ 
O'Rourke (right) had the top performances for the Irish track team at the Notre Dame Invitational Saturday. 
Nettles shows Braves that 42 is not too old 
Associated Press 
Graig Nettles says he came to the Atlanta Braves' spring camp hoping to win a job and impress some people. It's still not official that he's on the roster but has impressed a few people. 
Nettles hit three homers and a double Sunday as the Braves beat the Baltimore Orioles 12-1 at West Palm Beach. 
Nettles, 42, hit a solo homer off Scott McGregor in the second inning and a two-run homer in the sixth after drawing a walk on his second at-bat. In the eighth, Ted Sim­
~ . mons and Nettles greeted reliever Don Aase with back­to-hack homers. Nettles, who has been playing first and third, also doubled later in the inning. "I've never been much of a spring player and I've always been a streaky home run hit­ter," said Nettles who has six homers and another in a B game this spring. 
Indians 10, Cubs 6 
In Tucson, Rick Dempsey doubled and singled, driving in two runs and scoring twice, and Tony Bernazard, Julio Franco and Pat Tabler each drove in two runs as Cleveland defeated Chicago. Cleveland starter Greg Swindell got the win, al­lowing five runs, four of them earned, on five hits in seven in­nings. He struck out nine and retired 14 of the final 15 batters he faced. 
Brewers 3, Giants 2 

In Chandler, Robin Yount doubled in the go-ahead run in a two-run sixth inning as Mil­waukee defeated San Fran­cisco to snap a five-game ex­hibition losing streak. Rick Manning began the sixth with a pop-fly double off Giant loser Kelly Downs as shortstop Jose Uribe lost the wind-blown ball in the sun behind third base. Yount followed with a hard hop double to right center, scoring Manning. Yount moved to third on a passed ball and scored on Jim Paciorek's hard smash to third. 
Dodgers 6, Expos 3 
In Vero Beach, rookie out­fielder Chris Gwynn's two-run single highlighted a three-run eighth inning that carried Los Angeles over Montreal. The eighth-inning rally against Montreal right-hander Tim Burke broke a 3-3 tie. Los An­geles reliever Tom Niedenfuer recored his second straight save of the spring. Fernando Valenzuela went eight innings for the Dodgers in his longest spring outing, allowing three runs on seven hits, while is­suing four walks and striking out six. 
Mariners 6, A's 5 
In Tempe, Harold Reynolds drove in the go-ahead run with a suicide squeeze bunt and hit a two-run, inside-the-park home as Seattle nipped Oak­land. Reynolds' perfectly placed bunt scored Dave Valle to cap a three-run second in­ning that erased a 2-0 Oakland lead. His homer off loser Chris Codiroli made it 6-2 in the fourth inning. 
Monday, March 30, 1987 -page 10 
ND takes 6 firsts 
Kraus, O'Rourke power Irish 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The score may not have been kept at Saturday's Notre Dame Invitational, but if it had been the Irish would not have minded. 
The Notre Dame track team collected six first place finishes out of a possible 19, led by strong performances from freshmen Tom Kraus and Tom O'Rourke. 
Once again Kraus dominated the field of shot putters, with his first-place toss setting a meet record and qualifying him for the IC4A champion­ships. Kraus also won the dis­cus competition. 


Running in his first steeplec­hase for the Irish, O'Rourke outran his competition to take first place as well with a time of 9:30.7. 
"Both did very well," said Irish head coach Joe Piane, "I was impressed by their perfor­mances." 
Junior Mike Burns placed second in the steeplechase for the Irish with a time of 9:37.4. 
Juniors Brian Driscoll and Tom Mick won the javelin and hammer competitions with throws of 189-8 and 150-2, respectively, to complete a sold 
We cater t.o weddings and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 
Irish performance in the field events. Chuck Curley added a second-place finish with a throw of 185-10. 
Sophomore David Warth, taking advantage of the oppor­tunity to experiment in the non­scoring invitational, won the 400-meter intermediate hurdles. Freshman Glenn Wat­son finished fourth. 
"Non-scoring meets let the guys experiment in different events," said Piane, "and give guys opportunities to compete who might not normally get the chance. They also give those with injuries the chance to rest." 
The Irish now prepare to take on the Hoosiers in Bloomington next weekend. 




4 Sops  
5 Deranged  
6 Aberdeen­ 
7 Type ty.pe:  
abbr.  
8 Alan Jay­ 
9 Coroner's  
letters  
1 0 Strong effect  
11 Mediocre  
12 Student  
14 Please greatly  
20 Amo, -, amat  
22-da capo  
25 Twits  
27 Fit one within  
another  
28 Steins  
29 Tapestry  3/30/87  
30 Slow gait  
31 Human  46 Col. subj.  57 Cockeyed  
32 Succinct  49 Dress folds  59 Vile  
35 Truck  51 Metal molds  60 Behind time  
37 Hardy heroine  53 Similar  61 Traffic sign  
39 Run away  54 Sermon  63 Caviar base  
41 Uphold  55 Conflict in  65 Day or flower  
44 Chair  literature  follower  

~4()t~~~--------------------------------------------------------·M--on•d•a•y,•M•a•r•ch
..30•,•19•8•7•-p•a•g•e..11 

Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

I'IIE CAtaP YOrJ flUOW 
Of/!? FIK5T 1lXII? 
/J()(M£1{5 1CX'£nEK FOR 
/~ON/ ~60T 
11 ~flfC/AL !Wf.1J(M;{311fNT._ 
CO!?~ 
51VN50R­
\ 
5HIP.(I "­

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 



Iiv, 60NNA S([)Rf I Z.. f.IAf1: LOOK o.JT! STbP! 'touR£ C:IJNNA • • • ._ 
-S[CI"!cN MSKlTRALL -
FbtNTs! A I-ICOf.' S(.f((£1 wNK! HooP' . _ PAN r ' 

I V 
~ c> ..-'L-z.__ . 
0 

-·~ 
Campus 
11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.: University Food Ser­vices presents a Circus Lunch North and South Dining Halls and the Oakroom Cafeteria 
11:45 a.m. -1:00 p.m.: Economics Depart­ment Development Workshop, "A Model of Agrarian Class Structure in Latin America," by Michael Carter, 131 Decio 2 p.m.: SMC Varsity Softball: SMC vs. Huntington College, SMC Softball Field 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace-Mechanical Engi­neering Seminar, ''Experimental Studies on Vortex Develoments and Inter-actions in Unsteady Separated Flows," by Fathi Finaish, University of Colorado, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
4 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters and the Department of Sociology Lecture, presents a lecture on the advances in sociological research entitled, ''The Wind and the Sun: Conflict and Paternalism in Intergroup Relations," by Prof. Mary Jackman of the University of Michigan, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center 
4:30 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Peacemakers Series Lec­ture "The Search for Peace and Justice
' .
in South Africa," by Rev. Malust Mpumlwana, Capetown, South Africa, 120 Law School 
4:30 p.m.: Mathematical Colloquium, "Mennicke Symbols and Cohomotopy Theory," by Prof. Wilbred van der Kallen, Universities of Cornell and Utrecht, 226 Computer Math Building 
7 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, "The Big Sleep," 1946, BW, 114 minutes, di­rected by Howard Hawks, U.S., Annen­berg Auditorium 
? 
. 

7 -9:30p.m.: Shakespearean Club Film, "Romeo and Juliet," Engineering Auditorium 
8 p.m.: African Studies Program Film, "Nambia: Africa's Last Colony," a 1984 
B.B.C. documentary, Multipurpose Room of the Center for Social Concerns 
9 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "Dangerous," 1935, BW, 72 minutes, di­rected by Alfred Green, U.S., Annenberg Auditorium 
9 p.m. -1 a.m.: Charity Ball Night at Theodore's, featuring "Blank Genera­tion" and DJ Rick Reuter, $1.50 with proceeds benefitting the Charity Ball 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Veal Parmesan with Red Mushroom Sauce Stir Fried Chicken & Vegetables Poached Sole with Guerenne Vegetables Sloppy Joe Sandwiches 
Saint Mary's 

Roast Beef Chicken Supreme Crepes Spinach Lasagna Deli Bar 
.. 

Chameleon faux pas: Arriving at a party in the same color as the host. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Speechless 5 Post 9 Platter 

13 Unusual person 
14 Author of "Divine Comedy" 
15 Melville opus 16 Not yet final 
in law 17 Mystery award 18 Church section 19" Moorish drum 21 Arm bone 23 Wand 24 Exudes 26 Sea eagle 28 Rubdown 31 Clergyman 33 Vase with a 
pedestal 34 Pare 36 Item of 
property 38-Spee 40 Autocrats 42 Bore 43 Goes to sea 45 Follow 47 WWII org. 
, 48 Snoozes 50 Singing birds 52 Stamp 53 Chekhov 54 Faucet 56 River duck 58 Heavenly 
inhabitants 62 Chinese 
gelatin 64 Excuse 66 Egg-shaped 67 Nuts 68 Sign 69 Yugoslav 
leader 70 Site of a 
patella 71 Tore 72 Killed 
DOWN 
1 Sp. title 2 One 3 Flat-topped 
hill 


~1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 3/30/87All Rights Reserved 
Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 
Tired of getting 8 hours of sleep? Even if you're not, we have a place for. you 
=Ihe Obset:Ver-­
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
• 
Monday, March 30, 1987-page 12

SRorts 
Hoosier hex continues over Irish at IU dumps ND in 8 innings, 11-5 
By STEVE MEGARGEE tier got the Irish started in the the game into extra innings. first inning with a home run Morandini started a rally in
Sports Writer 

over the centerfield wall, and the eighth, walking and steal­
"Hoosier hysteria" may be Mike Moshier's second-inning ing second on a close call with spreading across the rest of the double drove in two runs and one out, and the Hoosiers country, but it is not catching gave Notre Dame an early 3-0 pounded out six runs off Irish on too well at Notre Dame's lead over the Hoosiers. relievers John Gleeson and Jake Kline Field. Sophomore Irish hurler Mike Paul Mauk to win the game, 
After a doubleheader split at Passilla was in control for the 11-5. The win raised Indiana's Ball State on Saturday, the first three innings, but Indiana record to 22-4. Irish baseball team was sched­rallied for a run in the fourth, "We thought we had him uled to have a doubleheader and the Hoosiers exploded for (Morandini) out at second, but with the Indiana Hoosiers yes­three runs in the fifth inning, it's the umpire's call and it's a terday. Hoping to avenge three giving Indiana a 4-3 lead. judgment call," said Gallo. 
',f. season-opening losses to In­"Passilla was just cruising, "11-5 was in no way indicative 
diana, Notre Dame instead lost and he lost it," said Gallo. of the game. It was an extra­one game in extra innings and "They just really drove the inning ballgame, and they got had the secod game called for ball, and -we couldn't get six runs. We didn't get any darkness under unusual cir­anybody out." breaks." 
cumstances. The Irish now Hoosier shortstop Mickey The suspended second game stand at 7-9. Morandini, who started In­of the doubleheader was what 
"Indiana's been a frustrating diana's fifth-inning rally with a drew the ire of the Irish the series for us the past couple of single, provided insurance with most, however. Notre Dame years," said Irish head coach a homer to right off Irish rallied from a 2-0 deficit to take Larry Gallo. "We've lost to reliever Mike Harmon that a first-inning 3-2 lead before a them six times in either the last made the score 5-3. ten-minute rain delay. inning or in extra innings." Notre Dame rallied in its last Indiana went back in control 
The Irish opened their home bat of the seven-inning game. and took an 8-4 lead when the schedule yesterday hoping to After Moshier led off with a Irish mounted another com­raise their record above .500 for single, Steve Skupien hit a eback. In the fourth inning, Pel­the first time this season. homer over the left field fence Freshman sensation Dan Pel-to tie the score at five, sending see INDIANA, page 7 
Kelly-Schmidt tandem pulls out Irish upset over Michigan 
By SHEILA HOROX against Susie Patlovich and slow the pace of the match, and Mackey and won, 6-2, 3-6, 7-6 match against Michigan, Kelly Sports Writer Cathy Schmidt, 7-6 (7-4 tie­keep in control,'' said Gelfman. (7-1 tiebreaker). Alice Lohrer and Schmidt's victory is only breaker), 0-6, 6-4, to give the "We couldn't let Michigan get defeated Tricia Horn, 6-3, 6-1, one example of the overall 
Vindication for an earlier Irish the victory over the Wol­into any kind of rhythm.'' Natalie Illig beat Anne Marie progress for the tennis pro­singles loss was what was on verines. After dropping the opening Floreno, 6-3, 6-3 and Schmidt gram. the line for freshman Resa Kel­"Despite the score, all the game, Kelly and Schmidt took care of Susie Patlovich, 7-"The win against Michigan ly. games in the second set were swept the next two and were 5, 6-3. is the turning point in our 
The rest of the Notre Dame close," said Kelly. "We just able to gain the advantage in The Irish dropped two close season," said Gelfman. "This women's tennis team stood on weren't able to win any of the the evenly fought third set. matches, Michelle Dasso yeild­team finally realizes that they the sidelines watching Kelly three-all shots. The pace really ing to Tina Basle, 6-4, 6-4 and can win as a team, not just as and partner Tammy Schmidt got away from us in that second "In the last set, I just tried Kelly succumbing to Alison individuals. It's a big boost for finish their doubles match, set." to hit the ball low and in places Miller, 3-6, 7-6 (11-9 tie­our confidence, knowing that knowing the match against that cut off Michigan's time to breaker), 6-3. we can compete with the teams Michigan rested on the out­According to Head Coach react," said Kelly. in the Big Ten." come of the last doubles match. Michele Gelfman, with Mic­The Irish held an early 4-2 In doubles, Dasso and Lohrer On Saturday, the Irish 
The eruption of cheers from higan picking up the pace, the lead after singles action. fell to Basle and Horn, 6-2, 6-3, defeated Indiana State, 7-2. the sidelines told the outcome. Irish were getting caught at the Freshman Stephanie Tolstedt while Tolstedt and Illig lost to That and the win against Mic­Kelly and Schmidt pulled out a net at inopportune times. maintained her composure in Mackey and Floreno, 6-4, 6-4. higan raised Notre Dame's thrilling three set victory "I told Resa and Tammy to the third set against Leslie Aside from clinching the spring season record to 4-5. 
Indiana, Syracuse to fight it out for NCAA Championship 
Coaches play · Basketball upbringing puts 
down hype 
/·-~ Alford within one of title 
-. 
!l 
Associated Press Associated Press conference, "Steve learned to
• 
shoot the ball and learned to 

NEW ORLEANS -If Bob NEW ORLEANS -His father shoot it well. I think his dad Knight and Jim Boeheim were provided the ignition, Indiana was a stickler for shooting mec­actors, they might well pass up coach Bob Knight did the fine hanics and made sure that Monday night's Academy tuning and both say it was Steve had the proper approach 
I
Awards and go to the NCAA Steve Alford who provided the to shooting. Steve obviously basketball championship game fuel that has powered him to liked shooting a basketball. I instead. •.. ~ within one game of an NCAA think he's really enjoyed just That's because neither of the basketball championship. the simple act of shooting and 
!"'~~ t
opposing coaches in the title "Steve has driven himself by making shots. game between Indiana and the desire to be the best bas­Syracuse admits to any special ketball player he possibly ''I think Steve has personal significance. can," said Sam Alford, who progressed tremendously as a
:? 
No one would blame them if coached the two-time All­player able to see the game and they did, mind you. American at New Castle High do those things that he sees de­School in eastern Indiana. "He veloping in the game from pos­
It would be Knight's third works hard at his game and at session to possession. I think title, putting him in the select his image. He wants to be a that's taken a little work on his company of UCLA's John leader, on and off the court." part." Wooden and Kentucky's A long basketball season Adolph Rupp as coaches who "It goes back to my upbring­ends for both Alfords with Mon­won more than two NCAA ing. I was brought up in a bas­day night's title game at the crowns. ketball home, and my father Louisiana Superdome where 
It would be Boeheim 's first taught me how to play," the the No. 3 Hoosiers face No. 10 crown and would serve to an­younger Alford said Sunday. ''I Syracuse. swer his critics. have lived basketball ever "I'm very tired," the elder But neither seems concerned AP Photo since I can remember." Alford said. "I've been to 31 of about it from those Indiana guard Steve Alford has used the teachings of his father "I think through the associa­Indiana's 33 games, plus all of and his coach to become one of the top guards in the country. tion that he had with his dad," 
\ ' see TITLE, page 8 He now finds himself playing for the NCAA title tonight. added Knight at a Sunday news see ALFORD, page 8
• r 
' ,.; 
i : 


---------_____ , --~-----------...,..--·-----~---------------------------------'""­

4,500 to participate in International Games 

Observer Staff Report 
Thousands of people will descend upon the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community this summer for the Seventh International Summer Special Olympics Games. Over 4,500 athletes, along with coaches, families, and friends will be attending the nine-day event. 
The International Games, scheduled every four years, are the showcase of the Special Olympics effort, a program of athletic training and competition in­volving over one million mentally hand­icapped athletes every year. The Games were started by Eunice Ken­nedy Shriver and the J·oseph P. Ken­nedy Jr. Foundation in 1968 as a way to test the skills, and provide encourage­ment for, the mentally handicapped. 
The Games are being organized by the International · Summer Special Olympics Committee (ISSOC), a non­
"Let me win, but if I 
cannot win, let me be 
brave in the attempt." 
Special Olympics Oath 
profit organization made up primarily of volunteer workers. 
The purpose of the Games, and of the Special Olympics organization as well, is "to offer special training and skill development to mentally retarded people of all ages," according to Pat Foster, a volunteer worker for ISSOC. The Games emphasize competition not with each other but with the odds facing the mentally handicapped, according to Foster. 
The Games are scheduled from July 31 through August 8, which is between the end of Summer Session and the start of fall football practice. 
15,000 volunteers necessary for Games 
By TRIPP BALTZ Senior Staff Reporter 
Referees, decorators, enter­tainers, track rakers, computer as­sistants, drivers, interpreters, guides and janitors. 
These and many other jobs are waiting to be filled by volunteers for the 1987 International Games to be held at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses this summer. 
Martha Bolyard, director of the Human Services Division for the summer games, said the Games will employ the talents and time of roughly 15,000 volunteers. 
Bolyard, whose division primarily handles recruitment of volunteers, said the response from individuals willing to work the games ha8 been "excellent." 
As Human Services receives the last registration forms, Bolyard es­timated close to 10,000 have volun­teered already. 
Because the athletes are the rea­son for the Games, most of the volun­teer spots will be geared to assist them. "There will be very few (positions) where a volunteer will not come in contact with an athlete," Bolyard said. 
One of the important jobs will be that of "most needed hero," said Stu­dent Commissioner Eric Hickey, who is directing the student volun­teer effort at Notre Dame. These spe­cial volunteers will be on call to help 
How you too can volunteer 
The Special Olympics is counting on 15,000 volunteers to make the 1987 International Games a success. 
Volunteers will come from across the nation to be a part of the special event. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have been invited to join Michiana residents in becoming in­volved in the world-wide recognition of the skills of mentally-handicapped people. 
Interested students should go to the Notre Dame Student Govern­ment offices, where volunteer forms are available. Students who live in the Michiana area are especially en­couraged to apply. If you cannot work the entire nine aays of the Games, any time you can give would be greatly appreciated. Forms will be available until April 1. 
If you have any questions, or wish to volunteer after the April 1 dead­line, contact the following people: Eric Hickey (ND students)-283-1868 Mary Beth Wilkin (SMC students) ­284-5150 Father Dori McNeil (faculty and staff) -239-5319 
Interested individuals can also call 232-1987 or write ISSOC, P.O. Box 1987, South Bend, Ind. 46634-1987 to volunteer. 
deal with any unforeseen jobs that arise during the course of the Games. They will need to be resourceful and be able to roll with the punches, according to Hickey. 
Although much emphasis has been placed on local civic groups because of the problems students will have getting here for the Games, students are especially needed as volunteers. Because the students know the two campuses well, their aid is espe­cially needed. "Students who know the campus would be a great help, especially since they tend to get very involved" in volunteer activities like the International Games, said Hick­ey. 
Student volunteers would probably be asked to act as drivers and guides around campus, and also to help out with various sales and security tasks, according to Hickey. 
Workers will serve food and clean up after the opening ceremony. People who can operate a computer 
see VOLUNTEER, page 4 


Events promise fun 

alhleltcs 
(track & 1\eldi 

basketball 

.kL 
bowhng 

gymnastics 

wetghllifting 

Observer Staff Report 
A plethora of sporting events, entertainment, and edu­cational activities await the participants in the 1987 Inter­national Games in South Bend this summer. 
One of the highlights of the nine days of events will be the Opening Ceremonies on Aug. 2. Set in Notre Dame Stadium, almost 60,000 spectators are expected to attend the show, including a parade of athletes and a torch light­ing ceremony. 
The actual sports competitions will be split into two categories. The first, the Official Sports Competition cat­egory, includes Aquatics, Athletics (track and field events), Basketball, Bowling, Gymnastics, Soccer, Softball, and Volleyball. Teams wiH be comprised of ath­letes of approximately equal ability, and medals will be awarded. 
The second category, Demonstration Sports Competi­tion, will include Table Tennis, Equestrian events, Roller Skating, Cycling, Tennis, and Weightlifting. This year, for the first time, medals will be ·awarded to athletes in demonstration sports as well. 
Five more sports will be covered in Exhibition-Clinics as an educational experience for the athletes. Canoeing, Rowing, Sailing, Synchronized Swimming, and Team Handball will all be demonstrated, providing an opportu­nity for athletes and coaches to learn more about these new Special Olympics sports. 
Besides the athletic events themselves, many other ac­tivities will be set up on campus. The EXPO Center, held at O'Laughlin Auditorium, will feature demonstrations, clinics, and discuss-ions on family support, health and nutrition, beauty and exercise, technology, recreation, and the arts. 
An International Dance, an evening at St. Patrick's Park, and a 4-H Fair will also be held as part of the festivities. 
The action will all come to an end on Aug. 7 with the closing ceremonies at the Notre Dame Athletic and Con­vocation Center. 

SPE·CIAL OLYMF 


The athletes for the 1987 International Games come from a wide range of cultures and backgrounds. Over 4,700 mentally handicapped athletes are coming to South Bend from all 50 states and from over 60 other countries. Some come from as far as New Zealand, Nepal, and Taiwan. Many come from countries that are 
~ :--~·-· .... j 
Photo courtesy of Special Olympics 
Father Theodore Hesburgh receives a check for $14.11 from the 1984 South Bend Junior Olympics baseball team. The check was the flrst of many to be signed as a donation to this year's International Games. 
Notre Dame ar perfect spot f 
By SANDY CERIMELE Staff Reporter 
The honor of hosting the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games has been given to South Bend and the Notre DameSaint Mary's community. The dedica­tion of four groups in the South Bend com­munity, the athletic tradition of heroism and the proximity of the world class facilities have all contributed to making the schools an ideal site for this prestigious event. 
The drive to bring the Games to South Bend began with a bid submitted to the Special Olympics headquarters in Washington in No­vember of 1983 by the director of recreation for the Council for the Retarded of St. Joseph County. The bid was compiled with an enor­mous effort from the Indiana Special Olym­pics, Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and the South BendMishawaka area Chamber of Commerce. These groups all contributed to the 300 page manuscript reviewed by the Kennedy Foundation and Special Olympics International, containing an enormous amount of detail on housing, financing and transportation. 
"The proximity of the facilities takes the 
strain off the atheletes, many of whom are 


relatively unknown: places like Macao, Malami, and Suriname. Five are even from St. Joseph County. Over 1,500 coaches and 10,000 friends and family members will accompany them. They all come for one purpose: to share in the joy and the excitement of the Interna­tional Summer Special Olympics Games. 
------------···-·------·-·------------------------' 
1d Saint Mary's or all involved 
experiencing life outside institutions for the 
first time," according to Mike Minich, chair­
_man of Public Relations for the 1987 Inter­
national Summer Special Olympics Commit­
tee. He said that the former sites were split 
by distances of greater than 100 miles, which 
makes the two campuses and their facilities 
ideal for the Games. 
Because all the necessary facilities for the 
sporting events and cultural and educational 
presentations are almost all located on one 
or the other of the two campuses, Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's provide an ideal site 
for the Games. The large amount of on­
campus housing was also a factor in the site 
selection. 
Indiana's long-standing commitment to 
amateur sports also contributed to the choice 
of South Bend. The White River Park State 
Games, the Indiana Summer Special Olym­
pics Games, and the upcoming Pan Ameri­
can Games in Indianapolis all illustrate In­
diana's status as a first-rate site for amateur 
athletics. 
The site of the Games was announced on 
June 22, 1984, by Special Olympics Interna­
tional. The community has been working 
ever since to accomodate more than 4,700 
mentally handicapped atheletes in the larg­
est sporting event in South Bend's history. 
International Games Special Section 
Volunteers, kids make Special Olympics work 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN mentally handicapped can be a prob­
Projects Manager lem, but people who start to give their 
time find themselves hooked, Kaufman 
With the 1987 International Games said. 
coming to South Bend this summer, ''Our kids are just like everybody 
some people may be asking, "What are else,'' she said. ''They may look a little 
the Special Olympics?" funny, or talk a little funny, but kids 
Special Olympics was started as a are kids, no matter where they are. 
day-care camp for mentally handi­
capped individuals by Eunice Kennedy "Our kids don't get a break," Kauf­
Shriver in 1963. man said. "This is not a recreational 
activity; it's a sports competition." 
As the idea of helping the mentally Special Olympics athletes are givenhandicapped through sports gained ac­training and practice in many sportsceptance, summer day camps were throughout the year. Competition isformed throughout the country, with held at the county and area levels, with the help of the Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. 
winners from these areas selected forFoundation. 
further competition at the state level.
Today, Special Olympics helps more Each area is also alloted a numberthan one million athletes in more than of slots to fill with athletes for the In­20,000 communities throughout the ternational Games.
world. 
"Special Olympics was set up not just "(The athletes) get a lot of satisfac­for special training and competition, tion and good times even though they but also to offer the opportunity to may be runners-up," said Kaufman. develop and hnprove skills in sports," "The feeling of competitiveness, of said Sue Kaufman, the Special Olym­trying to achieve a new goal each year, pics area coordinator responsible for makes (the athletes) well-rounded, five Indiana counties, including St. good kids. Joseph's County. "For some kids it never really hap­
pens, but there's always some improve­Special Olympics is a privately­
ment."
funded project. "We receive no funds or grants from the government, no The Special Olympics movement has United Way money, nothing like that. changed a great deal in the past few 
We are totally funded by private con­years, with the addition of new sports,tributions," Kaufman said. new techniques, and more athletes. 
While Logan Center helps Special But, according to Kaufman, "the one Olympics by supplying gym facilities, thing that stays constant is the commit­office space and equipment, they are ment the volunteers have to make sure 
"entirely separate entities," she said. the program is maintained. There's a do-or-die attitude." 
The St. Joseph County branch of Spe­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in­cial Olympics, in order to support train­volvement in local Special Olympics ac­ing for 592 mentally-handicapped ath­tivities has been good, according to letes in sports like basketball, softball, Kaufman. Because of the difficulty in swimming, and gymnastics, required working around student schedules, more than $74,000 last year simply to more students tend to get involved in 
pay expenses. Logan Center activities, but students 
This does not include any funds spent have made a big difference on a one­on labor, as all Special Olympics on-one basis, as coaches and in other 
workers at the county level are volun­positions. teers. "I put in an awful lot of hours, The upcoming 1987 International but I get an awful lot back," said Kauf­Games will also be a big help. "I'm man. really enthused about the International 
Games. Through their new techniques, 
"A lot of people think (Special Olym­we're learning things that will help our pics) is just the big track events, but local program," said Kaufman. we offer activities year-round," she "It will help us in our goal: producing added. mentally handicapped athletes that will 
Finding people willing to put in five become productive citizens and will or six hours a week working with the take their place in our community." 







By JIM WINKLER Staff Reporter 

At its outset, the 1987 International Summer Games faced a fund-raising goal of $4.8 million. With 80 percent of that already collected, fund-raising has been, in the words of the director of Financial Development, "an absolute success." 
The Fund-Raising Committee of the International Summer Special Olympic Committee OSSOC) set its budget three and a half years ago, Director Bill Scholl explained. 
The Board of Directors, chaired by Ervin Derda, calcuiated the amount of money needed to run the games suc­cessfully. More than 90 percent of the funds collected will finance the nine days of actual events this summer. 
The amount collected so far is enough to enable the games to go on, according to Scholl. The remainder of the $4.8 mil­lion will be used to make the 1987 In­ternational Games an even better pro­duction. 
The majority of the finances have come from corporate and civic spon­sors. Scholl said, "We don't want to drain money from South Bend; we want to bring Coca-Cola from Atlanta and IBM from New York and have them spend their money here.'' 
The Observeri.Jim Carroll 
Two banners portraying the logos of the International Games and the Special Olympics hang outside the International Games offices in downtown South Bend. 

Games fund-raising 'an absolute success' 
The largest donor so far has been Civitan International, a 55,000 member service organization, whose gift of $1.6 million comprises more than a quarter of the ISSOC's goal. 
Scholl mentioned that the primary method of securing corporate sponsor­ship is to concentrate on cause-related marketing. "By giving us money, AT&T can advertise that they support a worthy cause. This makes them look good, and we benefit as well." 
Scholl said that since the Games are a world-class sporting event and a good cause, many corporations and civic groups have jumped at the opportunity to help. 
Although the ISSOC has not actively sought financial help from the South Bend area, many local corporations and civic groups have helped. 
St. Joseph Bank, by organizing three charity golf tournaments, has raised over $250,000. Also contributing is Gates Chevy World and Town and Country Chevrolet, who will donate 200 vehicles for use during the Games. 
Scholl noted, "Although we didn't seek it, support here in South Bend has been tremendous.'' 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities have also been a great help to the games. 
Scholl pointed out that University President Father Theodore Hesburgh is honorary chairman of the games, and the Notre Dame athletic department has been an integral part of the promo­tion of the Games. 
In particular, Lou Holtz, Digger Phelps, and Lefty Smith have all par­ticipated in celebrity golf events and promotional tours for the Games. 
The larg~st contribution by the Notre Dame community was the $230,000 generated by the Chicago Bears vs. Buffalo Bills exhibition football game held last fall in Notre Dame Stadium. The money raised there helped defray the cpsts of upgrading Cartier Field and the outdoor track. 
Scholl pointed out that the entire fin­ancial realm of the Games is a give­and-take proposition. "We will benefit from being in South Bend and at Notre 
Dame. Likewise, they will benefit from our being here." 
John Peck, an economist at Indiana University at South Bend, estimates hosting the Games will bring $20 million in new funds to the South Bend area. Also, Notre Dame will benefit from a general upgrading of facilities. 
Volunteer 
continuedfrom page 1 
or just answer a phone are invited to apply. According to Bolyard, there isn't a volunteer for which Human Services can't find a job. 
Bolyard clarified that some volun­teers may do extra work to fulfil the 15,000 jobs needed to pull off the sum­mer games. "Many (volunteers) will do the same job seven days a week," Bolyard says. "The longer they can 

The Observer:!Jim Carroll 

Several staff members of the International Summer Special Olympic Committee (ISSOC) make plans for the upcoming events at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Bill Bankhead, Executive Director of the ISSOC, declared, "There isn't much to be done at Notre Dame, except some painting and groundskeeping. We chose Notre Dame because it is in such good shape." 
One area that Notre Dame will bene­fit from is Stepan Center, the roof of which will be repaired at the ISSOC's expense. 
Scholl said the fund-raising aspects of the Games would not be so successful if it weren't for the work of the four-man Fund-Raising Committee, chaired by Bill Haehnel of Civitan International. 
In addition to Haehnel, Art Decio,
r--------------------------------------­
How you too can contribute 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents can help the International Summer Special Olympics Commit­tee reach its $4.8 million goal. 
According to Bill Scholl, Director of Financial Development, ''Every amount is significant." Scholl noted that although no student is going to donate $500,000, there ·are many ways students can help the ISSOC raise money. 
The best way for students at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's to contribute is to organize and attend fund­raisers. For example, the Trident Naval Society, a relatively small group on campus, raised $6000 by 
work, the less (volunteers) we'll need." 
Bolyard said Human Services will begin placement of volunteers in jobs "in a week or so." Placement of workers will be made on a first registered, first placed basis. 
"Some individuals applied 15 to 18 months ago," Bolyard says. She ex­plained that although no one can be guaranteed a job, applications en­tered before the April 1 deadline will have the highest priority. 
Campus involvement in similar activities has been good, according Jerry Hammes, and Dan Harshma have volunteered their time and exper­tise to fund-raising. Of particular inter­est is the fact that as director of the Logan Center, Harshman has hands-on 
knowledge  about  fund-raising  and  
handicapped people.  
Although  the  fund-raising  for  the  

Games has gone well so far, Scholl stresses his group is far from finished. "We are not done. We have already raised more than any other Interna­tional Games in the past, but we still want to add to it. 
We want the 4700 athletes to get the world class event they deserve." 
soliciting sponsors for its 24-hour run. Some of that money also came from the sale of Special Olympics T-shirts. 
Scholl also noted that a campus­wide event would be great for the Games. "Having the two campuses working together would be neat. It would create dollars, publicity, and interest.'' In addition to large scale fund-raiser events, individual contri­butions are also welcomed. Money can be sent to: 
Bill Scholl 
P.O. Box 1987 

South Bend, IN 46634 
Contributions of any size would be greatly appreciated. 
to Hickey. Last year around 40 people volunteered to help out with the local St. Joseph County Special Olympics Games, and 30 people have already volunteered for this year's events. 
Since students volunteering for the Games may have problems finding the time and the means to travel back to South Bend, the volunteer effort is concentrating on local stu­dents. Even students in the Chicago area can· come down for a day or a weekend and help out, according to Hickey. 
This space wds donated and produced by The Observer for the benefit of the International Games on behalf of the community. 






