
VOL. XXI, NO. 129 THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1987 
U.S. knew of
Biased death penalties 

Soviet bugsruled valid by Court as early as '79 
Associated Press choosing who lives and who Associated Press 
dies but it doesn't care," Seth 
WASHINGTON -The Su­Waxman, a lawyer for the Con­WASHINGTON -U.S. offi­
preme Court ruled Wednesday gressional Black Caucus, said cials were fully aware as long 
that state death penalty laws of Wednesday's ruling. ago as 1979 that the Soviet KGB 
can be valid even if statistics Jack Boger, the New York was bugging the Moscow Em­
indicate they are carried out in lawyer who argued against the bassy during its construction, 
racially biased ways. Georgia system before the high but believed they had a strat­
In its most important ruling court, said the justices "failed egy for finding the spy devices, 
on capital punishment since to acknowledge a very power­a top State Department official 
1976, the court split 5-4 in up­ful pattern of discrimination." said Wednesday. 
holding Georgia's death David Whitmore, a lawyer "I think the supervisory 
penalty system even though for the American Civil people knew that the embassy killers of white people in that Liberties Union in New Or­was being bugged," said 
Robert Lamb, assistant secre­
state are far more likely to be leans, said the decision tary for diplomatic security.
condemned to death than those removed the last hope of nearly "They contributed information who kill blacks. a dozen of Louisiana's 47 death to us about the bugs that wereThe ruling dashed what row inmates. 
coming in." 
many death penalty opponents Illinois prosecutor Mark Lamb told a hearing of a
considered to be their best Rotert called the ruling "very, House Foreign Affairs subcom­chance of saving hundreds of very good news." 
mittee that U.S. personnelthe nearly 1,900 men and wo­"It was one of the last, best were placed on the embassy
men on death rows nationwide. chances to get a broad-based site to intercept listeningThe decision removed the attack on death penalty litiga­devices. "We had a strategy for last legal claim many of those tion nationwide," Rotert said. 
finding it," he said. 
inmates had raised in fighting Justice Lewis Powell, writing "Where this strategy was
for their lives, but it is not ex­for the court, said a statistical weak was in the sense that the pected to dramatically quicken study of Georgia's death Soviets used parts of the struc­the pace of executions. penalty system "at most indi­ture itself as the bugging.
Since the Supreme Court cates a discrepancy that ap­These are the kinds of things
reinstated capital punishment pears to correlate with race." 
that are going to be difficult for in 1976, 70 U.S. prison inmates But he said the discrepancy us to neutralize."
have been executed by does not violate the Constitu­Investigators have said some electrocution, poison gas, tion's equal-protection guaran­
firing squad and lethal injec­tees. Victory Kiss The ObservertPaui Oeschger large components of the build­
ing were fabricated away from 
tion. In previous decisions, the Rain spoiled the original site of the An Toastal Air Band Contest the construction site by a Soviet 
"The court is saying there but not the spirit. Kiss won the competition which was held on
see COURT, page7
may be racial discrimination in Wednesday night at Theodore's. see BUGS, page 4 

ND theologian attacks proposed Vatican document 
Associated Press boards of trustees to the of Chicago. ident and board of trustees into dence, McBrien said. 
Church hierarchy, the Rev. 
The document would em­rejecting controversial "As a theologian, I would find 
CHICAGO -A prominent Richard McBrien said. power the Vatican alone to de­theologians for jobs or tenure. 
that a happy solution," he said. 
Catholic theologian and chair­McBrien said the document termine whether schools are McBrien has spoken against "As a Catholic, however, I hope 
man of theology at the Univer­seeks to give bishops the power truly Catholic and would give the Vatican document and pray it never comes to sity of Notre Dame delivered to control theologians and as­the Church "some significant repeatedly, but Wednesday's 
that." 
on Wednesday his sharpest at­sure the orthodoxy of their measure of control" over the speech represented his most tack yet on a proposed Vatican teaching. institutions, he said. concise statement on the issue, A catholic university that in­documenthesaysthreatensthe "The Vatican's proposed The Vatican proposal is university spokesman Richard sists on academic freedom 
academic freedom and inde­schema is unacceptable be­unneeded and unenforceable, Conklin said. does not threaten its Catholic 
pendence of Catholic univer­cause it would undermine he said. Notre Dame President character, McBrien said. Any
sities. every Catholic university's Nevertheless, McBrien sug­Theodore Hesburgh has said contrary view conflicts with 
The Vatican document on claim to being a university in gested a scenario under the that if forced, the trustees Vatican II teachings that the higher education, proposed in any meaningful sense of the document in which a conserva­would forgo an official Vatican Church is "the whole commu­1985, would shift a basic author­word," McBrien said in a tive bishop could pressure an label as Catholic in favor of re­nity of the faithful," not justity over Catholic schools from speech to the Notre Dame Club intimidated Notre Dame pres-taining its academic indepen-the hierarchy, he said. 

14 to receive honorary degrees 
Special to the Observer of the 1970 Nobel Peace Prize. 
Academy through research 
He has devoted his life to de­
on genetic engineering,Fourteen persons will veloping high yield varieties parasitic diseases, mentalreceive honorary degrees at of Mexican wheat for use in retardation, and "nuclear
Notre Dame's 142nd Com­under-developed nations. winter." Chagos is a Brazilian 
mencement May 17. 
Mrs. Rosalyn Carter, wife physician who has pursued a
Derek Bok, president of of former President Jimmy career in biophysics. Harvard University, will Carter, will receive a doctor Mrs. Coretta Scott King,deliver the Commencement of laws degree. Mrs. Carter widow of Dr. Martin Luther
address and receive a doctor has long been involved in King, will be awarded a doc­of laws degree. Bok was groups that promote the tor of laws degree. Mrs. King 
named president of Harvard needs of the elderly, the per­has headed the Center forin 1971. Prior to that Bok forming arts, and the needs Nonviolent Social Change,served as dean of the Harvard of the homeless in the U.S. 
which has been a pivotal force law faculty. and in underdeveloped in building interracial coali­In addition to Bok, Norman countries. tions. She has also served as 
Borlaug of College Station, A doctor of science degree co-chair of the Full Employ­Texas, will be awarded a doc­will be bestowed on Dr. Carlos ment Action Council. tor of science degree. Bor­Chagas of Rio de Janeiro. He Mrs. Joan Kroc will also be laug, known as "The Apostle is the first non-priest to head awarded a doctor of laws of Wheat," is an agricultural the Pontifical Academy of plant scientist and the winner Sciences, and has directed the see HONORS, page7 

Jran sentences an American to ten years on spying charges 
Associated Press was arrested last June, shortly after an Iraqi air raid on the 
NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iran has center that interrupted Iran's sentenced an American en­communications with the out­gineer to 10 years in prison on side world. charges of spying for the CIA, the official Iranian news According to the news agency reported Wednesday. agency,hefacedsevencharges 
related to espionage and using 
The Islamic Republic News a forged passport to enter the Agency, monitored in Nicosia, country. It did not specify the quoted "informed sources" for charges of which he was found its report on the sentencing of guilty. Jon Pattis, a 50-year-old tele­communications specialist. It In an appearance on Iranian did not say when the trial oc­state television in October, the curred. American engineer said he 
Pattis, employed by Cosmos passed information through his Engineers of Bethesda, Md., company to the CIA on Iranian worked at the Asadabad tele­military activities, oil produc­communications center 200 tion, inflation and food distri­miles southwest of Tehran. He bution. 

r----------.---A------------. 
.-~--------~--------­
The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 2 



In Brief 
The hearing of the Notre Dame student charged in connection with a traffic accident that resulted in the death of junior Michael Cogswell was postponed again Wednes­day. The hearing has been rescheduled for April29. A plea to a Class A misdemeanor charge of driving under the influence of alcohol was expected Wednesday from the student. -The Observer 
Fourteen percentofNotreDame's7500undergradu­ates are involved in some form of volunteer social service, according to statistics from the Center for Social Concerns. Some 30 service and social action groups are active in the Center. The College of Arts and Letters has the highest percentage of its students participating in volunteer ac­tivity (20 percent), followed by Science (16 percent), En­gineering (11 percent), Business (10 percent) and Fresh­man Year (8 percent). The 8 percent who participate as freshmen grows to 19 percent as seniors. -The Observer 
Dr. Shamir Bose has been presented the 1987 Outstanding Research Award by the Notre Dame Chapter of Sigma Xi, the scientific research society. Bose, a physics professor at Notre Dame, was selected from a group of St. Mary's and Notre Dame faculty. Bose won the award for his work on a quantum mechanical analysis of the bound states of a magnetic monopole with electric charge and an electron. The award carries a $500 stipend. 
-The Observer 

Of Interest 
An Tostal picnic for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be held tonight at the Saint Mary's dining hall from 4:30 until 6:30. In case of rain, dinner for SMC students only will be served inside the dining hall. -The Observer 
The NMMC Pre-Law Society will hold its spring meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. This is a mandatory meeting for all juniors interested in law school. All other underclassmen are wel­come. A free showing of "The Paper Chase" will follow. 
-The Observer 
Yearbook distribution continues today for sophomores. From 12:30 to 4:30 outside of the Stepan Cen­ter, sophomores and any juniors or seniors who have not picked up a yearbook may do so. -The Observer 
A public auction will be held tonight at Gate 11 of the Stadium beginning at 7 p.m. The security department will auction off bicycles, watches, calculators, and other items that have been abandoned on campus. Items may be inspected at 6:30p.m. -The Observer 
Voting for UMOC will continue this afternoon at the Information Desk in LaFortune from 1-5 p.m. Each vote costs one cent and the proceeds go to Special Olym­pics. Candidates who need more time for "fundraising" are asked to bring all money to 242 Farley by 7 p.m. Friday. -The Observer 
CollegiateJazzFestivalt-shirtsarestillavailable. Contact Kevin Cronin at 2139. -The Observer 
Pianist Anthony Pattin will perform tonight at 8 p.m. in the Moreau Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. The free concert is part of the SMC Graduate Artist Recital Series. -The Observer 
Boniface Luykx, abbot of Holy Transfiguration Monastery in California, will deliver a lecture entitled, "Introduction to Spirituality of the Eastern Churches" tonight at 8 p.m. in the library auditorium. -The Observer 
Guillermo O'Donnell, Academic Director of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, will deliver a lecture entitled, ''Mter Political Democratization, What?'' at 4:30 today in room 100 of the Center for Continuing Education. -The Observer 

Weather 
In South Bend it couldn't last. The sun is gone for a while. Clouds today with a chance of morning showers and highs from 55 to 60. Clouds will continue to tower above through friday. 


Aecent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck Design Editor ..... .. .. .. .. .. .... Rob Luxem Accent Layout.. ........... Katy Kronenberg Design Assistant .. .. .. . .. Lisa Tugman Typesetter .. .. .. .. . Becky Gunderman ~~:.~~-t_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ..~~~~~r lt~~ .............................................. Jose Novas ND Day Editor ................. Jane Kravcik News Editor...... .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. . Cathy Stacy SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Copy Editor .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. Rachael Jarosh Ad Design ....................... David Culligan S~orts Copy Editor ............. Terry Lynch Photor~rapher .................. Paul Oeschger Vtewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Business Editor............... .. Steve Claeys Viewpoint Layout ............ Chris Donnelly Business Layout.. ...... , .... Katy Kronenberg 
Tbe Observer (USPS 399 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($23 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Olleener is a member of Tile Auoclated Prea. All reproduction riJ)lts are reserved. 

A student's guide to better campus housing 
As the semester draws to a close, it's time for An Tostal and approaching finals. But there is another rite of spring that does not get nearly as much attention: room picks. 
In every dorm, the process of room selection is looming large on the horizon. But did you ever wonder how you got in the dorm you are living in now? 
For most people, the dorm in which they pres­ently reside is the same dorm they received from the Office of Student Residences as a freshman. 
According to that office, the confirmation cards from admissions are sent up in June. Going by confirmation date, students receive their first choice. If the first choice cannot be met, the office then goes to the second choice. 
Mter that, the process becomes much more subjective. Looking for patterns in the first and second choice, Student Residence tries to fit the student in an appropriate dorm. 
Eventually, however, it becomes a matter of just trying to find a space for the incoming freshman. 
Mter I decided to come to Notre Dame, I looked at the nice little pamphlet provided by admission. Unfortunaely, "A Student Guide to Campus Housing," wasn't very helpful in se­lecting a dorm. Discouraged, I just left the space blank, trusting in Divine Providence to pick the right dorm for me. 
Well, I wouldn't trade my experiences for the world, but I really do think there is a better way. 
First, let's cut the nonsense and stop pretend­ing prospective freshman have any idea where they want to live and the "Student Guide" is any help. 
That's what campus visits are for right? 
Wrong. 
I had the oppportunity to host a prospective freshman a couple of weekends ago. He enjoyed his stay here and wants very much to return to Notre Dame next August. 
When it came to which dorm he was going to put down, he said he would probably put down my dorm. When I asked him why, he said it was mostly because it was the dorm he had stayed in. 
It has been my experience that most of the people who visit campus have much the same story. They put down the dorms in which they have stayed. 
A better solution would be something similar to what Harvard does. 
Let's put all of the freshman together in one place. The Mod Quad with Grace, Flanner, the Pasquerillas and the new women's dorms could be used for that purpose. 
Mter the end of the freshman year, Harvard has a lottery for halls, with each person receiv­ing his dorm by chance. 

Some people might disagree with that sys­tem. A better idea, at least to me, would be for students spend their freshman year checking out the dorms and then putting in requests for a dorm. For the more popular halls, a lotterycould then be used. 
Sounds unfair? 
How fair is the system we are using now? Besides, most dorms use a lottery for room picks indicating some credibility exists to a pure chance system. 
What about the "fraternity" atmosphere of the dorms, won't that be ruined? No, if anything it will be improved because now students could make an informed choice about where they want to live. 
An added advantage is the fostering of class unity, since all freshman would be together. 
Not everyone will be pleased by my proposal, but not everyone is pleased now. Look at the number of women desiring to transfer into Howard. 
The system as it exists presently is just not adequate. At a university where residentiality is as important as it is here at Notre Dame, it just does not make sense to ask some beleaguered high school senior to choose where he wants to live for the next four years on the basis of some 75 word blips in a pamphlet. 
The Obs•rver Is always lqqklng fqr talent.  BUY  
If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces  OBSERVER  
and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper.  CLASSIFIEDS  

A N T 0 s T A L 7
l • 9 • 8 • 


fJ'Iiirsty fJ'Iiursday 

EVENTS & LOCATIONS: 
12:00 CLUB BILL--Lake Marion Island (SMC) 
3:00 BIKE RACE--St. Mary's Campus (SMC) 
4:00 
CANOE RACES--Lake Marion (SMC) 

4:00 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE--McCandless Crts. (SMC) 4:30-6:00 PICNIC--Library Green (SMC) 


4:30 JAIL--Library Green (SMC) 
5:00 JELLO WRESTLING--Library Green (SMC) 
5:30 TWISTER--Library Green 
6:00 BEAT THE CLOCK--Library Green (SMC) 
7:00 DATING GAME--Angela (SMC) 
8:00 MR. CAMPU5--Angela (SMC) 
9:00 LATE NIGHT AT THEODORE'5--Theodore's 
9:00 AN TOSTAL NITE--SeniorIAlumni Club 
SPONSORS: BURGER KING--CHI CHI'S--LITTLE CAESAR'S--TACO BELL 

The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 3 
Farley rector nteets challenge 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
Sister Mary Jane Griffin, Farley Hall rector, was recently named the first female rector of Howard Hall. She will assume her role as Howard Hall rector in the fall. 
Griffin, who will be succeeded as Farley Hall rec­tor by Breen-Phillips Hall As­sistant Rector Sister Mary Louise Gude, looks forward to her new position after serving in Farley for three years. 
"I'm happy about going to Howard and looking forward to creating a new spirit in the dorm," Griffin said. Although she is excited about the new challenge of being a rector at Howard, Griffin said she will miss Farley. 
"I love Farley. I love the wo­men here," Griffin said. "I told them part of the reason I was open to going to Howard was because the relationship I've had with them was a positive one," she said. 
Griffin said she hopes to build unity in Howard Hall through her involvement with the resi­dents. "Your first job as rector 
wow• 

. 
is to help others gel involved in each other's lives and form relationships," said Griffin. 
"We're starting with a whole new group of people," Griffin said. "There's a lot of people to draw upon their gifts," she said. 
Griffin said she did not apply for the job as Howard Hall rec­tor but was appointed to that position by the Office of Student Affairs. "I was asked to do it," she said. "It was an invitation to take it." 
Plans for residence life in Howard are still being dis­cussed, Griffin said. "I've just begun to meet with my RAs for next year. We're beginning to plan together." 
Lisa Buonaccorsi, a Lewis Hall junior, will be working closely with Griffin as a resi­dent assistant in Howard next year. "It's going to be a diffi­cult task for us RAs because we're going to be doing every­thing," Buonaccorsi said. 
"We're starting from ground zero, really," Buonaccorsi said. "It's a real positive op­portunity to build dorm spirit and everything," she said. "It's going to depend a lot on the girls living there next year." 

Living in a former men's dorm will present a challenge to Howard residents next year, Buonaccorsi said. "It's definitely more of a chal­lenge," said Buonaccorsi. "There's nothing to go on. Our input is essential. Everything girls in the dorm do is going to mean a lot. Everything's going to count," she said. 
Farley Hall Co-President Susan Coene said Griffin will be challenged to continue the traditions in Howard that she helped found in Farley. "(Sister Mary Jane) has a lot 
of work to do to establish tradi­tions and turn the dorm around," Coene said. "At Far­ley she's had Pop Farley and the unity and spirit and close­ness of the girls," she said. 
"(Sister Mary Jane) really cared about Farley. I can tell she's really excited about leaving. One of her duties as a Franciscan sister was to be available to need," Coene said. "Howard was in need of a rectress so she felt it was her duty to go," she said. 
THENIJT n~ Is /ce/andair 

/celandair Direct to Luxembourg from Chicago is only $689 round trip! 
• 
Free express motorcoaches to Germany, Holland and Belgium. 

• 
Only $15 by train to Switzerland and France. Economical Eurailpasses are available. 

• 
Kemwel Rent-A-Cars with no mileage charge start at only $79 per week short term and even lower for long term rentals.* 

• 
Prepaid Hotelpak coupons, start at only $26.00 per night in 19 European Countries.** 

• 
Our unrestricted fares are also super low priced to Paris and Frankfurt. 

• 
We fly from New York, Chicago, Boston, Baltimore/Washington and Orlando. 





JIW_ 
ICELANDAIR J-11' 
CALL ICE FOR THE PRICE AT 1-800-223-5500 OR YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. 
Fara f•cta: Super Apex Fare is valid 611/87 thru 9n/87. 7 day minimum/60 day. max.imum. Payf!lent 14 day~ prior to departu.re. Fares subject to change. Penalty for cancellation, $3 departure tax and $10 U.S. customsllmm1gratoon fee. L1m1ted ava1lab11ity, other restnct1ons may apply. 
• Prices based on rate of exchange 2·11187. ••Reservations subject to availability. Full refunds with a14 day pnor cancellation. 





~,./lET TIJ EtJRIJPE 

AP Photo
Up and over 
Johnathon Petko of Toronto hoists his bicycle overhead as he prepares to bike to the summit of Mt. Kilimanjaro. He and his brother Stephan are part of a cycling expedition to raise funds to combat hunger. 

Congress accused of 'nteddling' in talks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-U.S. arms control director Kenneth Adel­man accused Congress on Wed­nesday of meddling in missile­reduction talks with the Soviet Union and General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev of back­tracking on removing Soviet rockets from Asia. 
"I think one of the big threats hanging over the horizon of arms control is the action of the Congress on arms control," Adelman said at a news confer­ence. "If the Congress is going to proceed to tie the president's hand instead of strengthening his hand it's going to hurt us in negotiations." 
Turning to Gorbachev, the U.S. official said the Soviet leader's proposal Tuesday for a separate treaty to curb shorter-range missiles was un­acceptable. 
Adelman said Gorbachev had agreed with Secretary of State George Shultz last week in Moscow that limits be placed simultaneously on missiles both in Europe and in Asia. 
"It made no sense to have separate limitations," Adel­man said. "The Soviets and Mr. Gorbachev himself agreed with Secretary Shultz that there had to be global limits." 
Adelman said Congress should get behind U.S. policy, which seeks deep reductions in American and Soviet missiles, "and not try to subvert it." 

Poland protests spying 
Asociated Press 
WARSAW, Poland -Poland on Wednesday accused a U.S. diplomat of spying and said he left the country after police caught him trying to pass a briefcase filled with money, se­cret codes and maps to a Polish contact. 
Government spokesman Jerzy Urban, in announcing the accusation at a news confer­ence, played a videotape of the diplomat's rendezvous and subsequent detention and showed espionage-related ma­terials allegedly found in his possession. 
Urban said a "sharp protest" was lodged with U.S. embassy officials Tuesday. 
He identified the diplomat as Albert Mueller, a second sec­retary in the political section, and said he had gathered infor­mation on Soviet and Polish military planning and con­sulted members of the political opposition. 

ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood SOuth lend 272-714C 

Show NO or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 
1aoe1 State Ac.ct 23 NNI Ironwood ARMIDA KOSEK South Bend, lndlena 41837. (219) 277-2870 
The Observer 

-----·· 
·-­
~ -·­

Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 4 


Violence resu~nes in South Africa 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Police shot six blacks to death Wednesday during street battles that began after the government-owned rail­road fired 16,000 striking black workers, officials reported. 
They said the violence oc­curred at a Johannesburg rail­road station and union build­ings in Johannesburg and Germiston, a suburb 22 miles southeast of the city. 
The government Bureau for Information said three people were killed and five wounded in downtown Johannesburg when police opened fire when four officers were attacked by 
a  crowd.  It  said  three  
policemen were  seriously in­ 
jured.  

The fighting was the worst in Johannesburg since the white government imposed a nation­wide state of emergency-June 

Bugs 
continued from page 1 

contractor and away from the eyes of U.S. inspectors. 
Those problems cannot now be remedied without funda­mentally damaging the build­ing's soundness, said Rep. Doug Bereuter, R-Neb., a member of the committee. 
12, 1986, to quell unrest against the apartheid policy of race dis­crimination. It took place at midday in a commercial and warehouse area on the edge of the central business district. 
Photographer Juhan Kuus said he saw 50 black men car­rying axes and clubs march a half-mile to the Doornfontein railroad station from the headquarters building of the 600,000-member Congress of South African Trade Unions. The federation's affiliate in­clude the South African Rail­way and Harbor Workers Union, which has led the 6­week-old strike. 
Kuus said that officers blocked the marchers and that a white police major who tossed a tear gas canister was thrown up against a wall, beaten and stabbed. Police responded with gunfire, he said, and he later saw at least three dead strikers and four 
"We've contined to underes­timate the Soviets' advances in intelligence collecting technol­ogy," Bereuter, who has a background in military coun­terintelligence, said in an interview. 
"We should have understood that they had the capabilities to employ advances in technol­ogy which are more complex than simply inserting bugs, lis-

Contact Marc Middleton or Bob Yonto 

THINK BIG 
Lease a Plymouth Horizon "America" with Air Conditioning, 5-Speed Transaxle and AM-FM Stereo for $145.84 a month. 

LEASING 

@!I!.Wlil 

le8888 pays an Initial security deposit of 
$t-15.00-alll:t$T4D.84-Per month for 60 months, for 
a total of $8925.40 with an option to buy. Lessee 
agrees to pay for damages and $.08 per mile for 
mileage over yearly average of 18,000 miles at the 
tarminatiOI"' of the lease. E)(cfse tax and license extra 

UNIVERSITY PARK 
CHRYSLER-PLYMOUTH 
5210 N. Grape Rd., Mishawaka 271-4145 
~lll/OifW IIICIINed 1118rifl8ble jab aller, we Milito 11M~ lnd oilto I ur-I _,_withll:nnd-..wTC¥*­
0 
THE LEASING 
PROFESSIONALS 
-

8UY IT DA LEAliE IT. ~:=~-:=-to!IM lhecndil~ ...,.withtwo Clluor'87 "quick1P!)r01181"finlncing progr8ll& 
II~ QUIIIy.~ CMbuyor....lrwwTC¥>~~1t1dgenerW!yno-.peymen~oriiCUrity dlpoeilwil beIIQUHd."Whlt'a-...C8ll _..proceu~·loin wilhin24hourl."" See~ per1icipelingTC¥>~~-for PfllllrwrnIP8dficL 
To IPPIY.you'llllld1 c:umontdrMor'a lic:erMind proofor~orJoballer.-'lbu lillYfind khelpful to bring llongII1Y blnkor c:nodk card numbers. Once~ IJ)prOII8d. ~can choiceortt. moot8ICdting lineor NWCIIS lt1d trudcaTC¥>11.__afhnd.including lheli..,_rConlll Fl<18GT-SL"**­
Socomeon-.to~pertlcipltingToyola-tod8y. Rl:;:::::i::;;u~
buyor--~..wTC¥*-~orleMe1f1'1n118'1"11 .., 
A NW-Ind1 ..w'fc¥:U.IM10 Could Alk For 
CDULD~ TOYOTA 
f"'aal ANVTHNII 
MCAE! 
333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon& Thur 'til 9P.M. 

seriously wounded policemen. 
Many blacks serve as police officers in South Africa, but most of those involved in Wed­nesday's violence were white. 
Witnesses said some injured strikers headed back to the union building after the shoot­ing at the railroad station, fighting police as they went. A 
white  policeman  with  a  
bloodied  head  ran  from  the  
gang,  dodging  between  ar­ 

mored trucks and firing his pis­tol behind him, the witnesses reported. 
Union officials said police fired tear gas and guns outside union offices in Germiston, kil­ling three people. The Bureau for Information said a crowd near the Germiston railroad station attacked police with stones and knives and the offi­cers opened fire. 
It said three people in the crowd were killed and two policemen injured. 
tening devices, in the construc­tion features of the embassy. It is not a matter of us going over the embassy with a fine­toothed comb ... We have a greater problem. It is a funda­mental structural concern,'' he said. 

Two Notre Dame treasures 
The ObserveriPaul Oeschger Rev. Edmund Joyce pauses near the exhibit which was dedicated to him at the Snite museum on Wednesday night. 


IN-DEPTH UNDERSTANDING 
THE WORLD & I is the magazine for people who want to know more: more about cur­rent issues; more about people; more about science, culture and art; more about current aca­demic trends. Each month exciting, state-of-the-art photo-journalism complements penetrating commentary by today's leading thinkers, such as, in recent months: 
Ben Stein on the feminist takeover of TV • David Horowitz on the anti-Vietnam War movement • Mangosuthu 
Buthelezi on South Africa's future • Lewis Branscomb on American science policy • Dinesh D'Souza on PBS • William Bennett on education • Tom Wolfe on socialism • Jack Kemp on foreign policy • Robert Nisbet on de Tocqueville 
THE WORLD & I is making a special one-time subscription offer to college teachers and students. The first 200 people from your campus to mail in the attached form will receive a free copy of our next issue with no further obligations. Should you then decide to subscribe, our special college discount rate will be $20 for six months, a very substantial savings over any previous offer. The regular newsstand price of THE WORLD & I is $120 per year, and our reg­ular yearly subscription rate is $90. So have a free copy on us and take advantage of this unprece­
dented offer. 


WORLD&! 
We Put The World In Your Hands 
~~~~~~~~
......... 


FREE COMPLIMENTARY ISSUE '­
For a free complimentary issue, clip and fill out this • coupon and send it to: , 
THE WORLD & I ,Circulation Department ,2850 New York Ave., ­
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002 .. 
, 

____________~St=ate~·----------~Z•~P_________ 
, 

Department 
Date· 



The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 5 
STEPAN CENTER 

FRIDAY APRIL 
24th 

9:00 p.m. 
Sponsored by 

Believe it ' or not 
The yearbooks are here. Brian Beals, Ron Al­miron and Anne Iacono helped to distribute 
The ObserverA>aul Oeschger 

them to students at Stepan Center on Wednes­day. 
~-Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 


W THIS wEEitAT"THE SNITE 
Individual admission: $1.50 
Marianne and Julianne (1981) Friday, April :U at 7:30 & 9:30pm, Snlle ·Marrlanne and Julianne Ia the story of two sisters; it Ia also a story of the political turmoil of Germany In the 19708. Cool and precise on the surface, but seething with feeling and paradox underneath, von Trotta has fashioned one of the most moving and penetrating portraits of the desperate politics of a chaotic era, and of the lives that were transformed by it. 
Stardual Memorleo (1980) Monday, April 27 at 7 ,Pm. Snlle Memort., Ia Allen's version of Frederico Felllnl's 8 li.l. Allen plays a harrassed celebrity filmmaker who discovers there's a meager satisfaction in such adoration. A bitter look at fame and success. · 
Blind Alley (1939) Monday, Aprll27 al9pm, Snlle 
A psychotic breaks out of prison and holes up in the house of a criminal psychologist (Ralph Bellamy). He soon has the 
house terrified, until his "moll" (Ann Dvorak) decides It's time to get the psychiatrist to help him. But will he? 
Seventeen (1983) Tuesday, April 28 at 7:30pm, Snlte 
This film represents one segment of a documentary commissioned by PBS to return to the town immortalized by sociologists In their study Middletown. PBS decided not to air this segment on youth due to the attitudes the teens voice about sexuality, drugs, and other social problems confronted in growing up. 
All ftlms are screened in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 
ND professor heads excavation in Italy 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
A Notre Dame professor will lead an archeological excava­tion in southern Italy this sum­mer. 
Paolo Visona, assistant pro­fessor of classics, said he will run the project as a field school, allowing Notre Dame students the opportunity to receive some training in ar­cheological techniques and possibly earn course credit. 
The excavation will involve a Greek City which dates to the second or third century B.C. 
The project will begin on May 25 and will last "a good six weeks," said Visona. 
This is the first time Notre Dame has been involved in an archeological expedition in southern Italy, he said. The lo­cation of the site is Oppido­Mamertina, which is located 50 miles north of Peggio Calabria, a town near the southern tip of Italy. 
He said he is planning to in­vestigate the site dur:i!'!t;:.: !~=-~~ year period. The excavators know they will be excavating a portion of a city block the first year. "This year promises to be one of the most interesting because we will be dealing with a residential area," Visona said. 
"It seems the site was aban­doned for unknown reasons in the second century B.C.," he said. He did note that the site 
is in an area of high seismic 
activity. 
He said the goal is to 

reconstruct the internal or­
ganization of the site to find out 
if it followed a city plan. 
Next year, the group plans to 

explore a citadel on top of the 
hill which overlooks the 
modern-day city built near the 
site. The citadel was built on 
top of the hill for defense pur­
poses. On the other side of the 
hill is a medieval ghost town. 
In the last season of the ex­

cavation, the excavators will 
investigate the defensive 
perimeter of the city, accor­
ding to Visona. 
Visona said he has has ex­

cavated previously in Italy, Is­
rael and Carthage. 
He said about 12 students have signed up so far, but there are still openings in the pro­grams for interested Notre Dame students. Students from Cornell, the University of Vir­ginia and other schools have already joined the group. 
y 1~ona said there will be three excavation sessions, each lasting two weeks. He said that because he is running the excavation as a field school, students may be able to earn three credit hours for each ses­sion in which they participate. 
Visona said he was "more or less shopping around for a site" in the area because he is inter­ested in the Second Punic War and particularly in Hannibal. 



The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 6 
t 
r 
r 

The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 7 
Retaliatory 
Associated Press 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka-Gov­ernment planes bombed Tamil rebels and the guerrillas at­tacked soldiers Wednesday, adding more than 100 dead to a toll that has reached nearly 400 in six days of civil war. 
The attacks by both sides came a day after a car bomb tore Colombo's main bus sta­tion apart, killing at least 106 people and woundiniJ 1195. 
The government said 80 Tamil rebels were killed in an air raid. A military source re­ported at least 36 soldiers and police slain in guerrilla raids and said eight rebels were killed. 
Government and military figures put the death toll since Friday at 374 on this island off India's tip, where Tamil ex­tremists have fought the Sin­halese majority for a separate nation since 1983. 
Tamil terrorists stopped vehicles in eastern Sri Lanka 


Chernobyl recovering one year later 
Associated Press ference that most people in the 
Chernobyl area are in good 
MOSCOW -A year after the health and that radiation levels Chernobyl nuclear accident, in farm products and soil near the temperature of the reactor the plant have almost returned hovers near the boiling point to normal since the accident on and 13 badly burned people are April 26, 1985. still considered invalids, Soviet At least 31 people died and officials said Wednesday. hundreds were injured after 
The officials told a news con-the explosion and fire, which 

spewed radiation around the 
world. The Soviets did not 
report the accident for three 
days. 

Nikolai Lukonin, minister of 
atomic power generation, said 
the temperature inside the 
ruined No. 4 reactor is 98 
degrees Celsius, or 208 Fahren­
heit, just under the boiling 
point. Last November the tem­
perature was 140 degrees Cel­
sius (284 Fahrenheit), he said. 
Soviet reports have said that the reactor's nuclear fuel reached more than 2,000 degrees Celsius during the ac­cident in the Ukraine. 
"The lowering of the level of heat is going according to plan," Lukonin said. "The tem­perature continues to fall." 

Honors 
continued from page 1 
degree. Mrs. Kroc spends her time promoting awareness of the costs and consequences of the nuclear arms race. In December of 1985 Mrs. Kroc gave Notre Dame $6 million to establish a Center for Interna­tional Peace Studies. The Joan Kroc Foundaton fosters aware­ness on human concerns. 
Rev. Martin Marty, the Fair­fax M. Cone Distinguished Ser­vice Professor of the History of Modern Christianity at the Uni­versity of Chicago, will receive a doctor of laws degree. An or­dained Lutheran minister, Marty is one of the most in­fluential Protestant observers and authors. He is also the President-elect of the Ameri­can Society of Church History. 
Notre Dame's Kenna profes­sor of mathematics, Provost Timothy O'Meara, will also be awarded a doctor of laws degree. O'Meara, Provost since 1978, has stressed the need for integration of re­

:* :* * * 
* * 
:* !* 
: : 
! : * * :* !* 



air• strike kills 100 
last Friday, pulled passengers out and opened fire, killing 127 people, most of them Sinhalese. 
On Monday, Tamil guerrillas killed 15 Sinhalese at a village in the same region. 
Friday's attack abruptly ended a government cease-fire aimed at renewing peace talks in the conflict, which has cost more than 5,500 lives since Tamils began fighting for an in­dependent state in northern and eastern Sri Lanka. 


LaRouche accused of siphoning ntillions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Jus­tice Department has charged in court papers that fringe presidential can­didate Lyndon LaRouche, who claims he is penniless, has siphoned millions of dol­lars from three corporations forced by the government into involuntary bankruptcy proceedings. 
Interim trustees ap­pointed by federal bank­ruptcy court assumed con­trol and assessed their inventory Wednesday, as lawyers for the LaRouche organization searched for ways to escape forced bank­ruptcy. Followers generally stayed away from their Leesburg, Va., headquarters which federal agents have seized. 
LaRouche, who left the United States for Europe last December, has ac­knowledged filing no per­sonal income tax returns in more than 10 years and con­tends he has no income. 
The fresh allegations about his use of corporate money emerged in the gov­ernment's court pleadings unsealed by a federal bank-
search and advanced study into the academic endeavor of Notre Dame. O'Meara has held the Kenna chair since 1976. 
David Rockefeller, chairman of the Rockefeller Group in NewYork, willalsobeawarded a doctor of laws degree. He and his brothers formed the grant­giving group Rockefeller Brot­hers Group. Mr. Rockefeller has worked to improve youth employment, education, eco­nomic development, and public safety in urban areas. He retired from Chase Bank in 1981 after 31 years there. He is a life trustee at the University of Chicago. 
A doctor of laws degree will be presented to Sen. Alan Simpson, the Republican party whip. He co-authored the first major immigration reform legislation to pass Congress in 30 years. Simpson is a senator from Wyoming. 
Yevgeny Velikhov, of Mos­cow, will likewise be awarded a doctor of laws degree. A Rus­sian physicist, Velikhov is vice president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences and the 
********************************************************************* 
* * * *
* * * * 
* * * *


! ! Sophomores ! ! 
* * * * 
* * * * 
* * * * 
: : Applications for ! ! ! E Junior Parents' Weekend ! ! 
********************************************************************* 
Chairmen :* * :* * . ** ** 
now available April 23 & 24 1n : ! the Student Activities Office, ! ! 3rd floor LaFortune. Applications ! ! must be returned by Friday, ! ! April. 24 by 5:00p.m. ** ** 
ruptcy judge. They cited a pattern of transferring as­sets from the companies "to cover the expenses and luxuries of LaRouche or­ganization insiders." 
"Millions of dollars have passed through the books (of the companies) with no cor­porate purpose, on the whim of Lyndon LaRouche," the court papers said. 
"Assets continue to be sip­honed off for the personal use of Lyndon LaRouche and his cronies," they said. 
"The assets are used not only to pay ordinary living expenses of members of the LaRouche organization, and to satisfy the extraordinary security fetish of Lyndon LaRouche, but also to pro­vide Lyndon LaRouche with a mansion and estate," the papers said. 
A federal grand jury in Alexandria, Va., is conduct­ing a tax investigation into LaRouche and his followers. Federal agents, including some from the Internal Rev­enue Service, are going through LaRouche organiza­tion financial records. 
man who directed the cleanup operation that followed the nu­clear accident at Chernobyl. He is a member of the Interna­tional Advisory Board of Notre Dame's Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies. 
The provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Rev. Richard Warner, will receive a doctor of laws degree. He has held the position of provincial superior since 1979 and is a trustee and fellow of Notre Dame. 
Most Rev. Rembert Weak­land, chairman of the Confer­ence of Catholic Bishops' com­mittee that recently produced the pastoral letter on Catholic Social teaching and the U.S. Economy, will be awarded a doctor of laws degree. Arch­bishop Weakland was a consultor to the commission for implementing the Second Vatican Council's Constitution on the Sacred Liturgy. In 1977 he was appointed archbishop of Milwaukee. 
Jean Wilkowski of Washing­ton, D.C. will receive a doctor of laws degree. Ms. Wilkowski is chairperson of the board of Volunteers in Technical Assis­tance (VITA). VITA provides worldwide technical assitance in areas of food, energy, small enterprize development and in­formation technology. 
Court 
continued from page 1 
contractor and away from the eyes of U.S. inspectors. 
But Powell said death­sentencing decisions made by judges or juries are based on too many varying factors to let discriminatory intent be proved by statistics. 
"It is tempting to pretend that minorities on death row share a fate in no way con­nected to our own, that our treatment of them sounds no echoes beyond the chambers in which they die," Brennan said. 




"ie~~_O_J_•Il__t________________Thur-sday~,Apr-H23-,198~7-pa~ges 
Reformational theology found in Catholicism 
I am nearing the end of three very happy (with a brief interlude) years as a graduate student in the philosophy department at Notre Dame. The philos­ophy department is quite lively and stimulating and I have learned a great deal about my discipline. 
Jerry Walls 
guest column 
Along the way, I have also acquired an education of anoter sort -namely in the ways of the Roman Catholic Church. My education in this regard has been informal and piecemeal, to be sure. My insights have been gathered from diverse sources: from lectures, from letters to the Observer, from ar­ticles in the conservative magazine Fidelity, from interaction with under­graduates I have taught. But most of all, I have learned from numerous con­versations with students and faculty in the philosophy and theology depart­ments, many of which have involved a friend who is a former Roman Catholic seminarian. While my informal educa­tion on these matters hardly qualifies me to speak as an authority, Roman Catholics may find interesting how one protestant in their midst has come to perceive them. I can communicate my perceptions most clearly, I think, by briefly describing three types of Cat­holics which I have encountered. 
First, I have met a fair number of conservative Catholics. Those who belong to this group like to characterize themselves as thoroughly Catholic. They stress the teaching authority of the Church and are quick to defend the official Catholic position on all points. For such persons, papal encyclicals are not to be debated; they are to be ac­cepted and obeyed. Many conservative Catholics, I suspect hold their views out of a sense of sheer loyalty to their upbringing. Others, however, defend their views with learning, intelligence, and at times, intensity. 

At the other end of the spectrum of course, are the liberal Catholics. These persons are openly sceptical not only about distinctively Roman doctines such as papal infallibility, but also about basic Christian doctrine as em­bodied in the ecumenical creeds. It is not clear in what sense such persons should even be called Christians. Nevertheless, if asked their religious preference, on a college application say, they would identify themselves as Catholics. I have no idea how many Cat­holics are liberals of this stripe, but I have met only a few here at Notre Dame. 
It is the third type of Catholic, I am inclined to think, which represents the majority. Certainly most of the Cat­holics I have met are of this type. I call this third group "functional protes­tants." 
Many Catholics, no doubt, will find this designation offensive, so let me hasten to explain what I mean by it. One of the fundamental lines of differ­ence between Catholics and Protes­tants, going back to the Reformation, concerns the issue of doctrinal author­ity. The traditional Roman Catholic view, as I understand it, is that its of­ficial teachings are guaranteed to be infallible, particularly when the pope or an ecumenical council exercises "extraordinary magesterium" when making doctrinal or moral pronounce­ments. Protestants have traditionally rejected this claim in favor of the view that Scripture alone is infallible in mat­ters doctrinal and moral. This was the conviction Martin Luther came to hold after he arrived at the conclusion that both popes and church councils have erred. After this, his excommunication was all but inevitable. 
When I say most Catholics are func­tional protestants I simply mean that 
P.O.BoxQ 
Rector's appointment prematurely publicized 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is iii regard to the "In Brief" notice in the Observer of April 13 concerning the appointment of Sister 
M.J. Griffin as rectress of Howard Hall. As Farley residents, we are upset at the poor judgement used in mentioning her appointment in order to get "the scoop." Sr. Griffin notified residents in a personal manner that she felt was deserved. The Observer decided to ex­ploit her decision. Our co-president per­sonally asked Mark Pankowski not to run the article until at least April 14, when the official notice was to be released. We personally feel that she was justified in her request because not 
Doonesbury 

even the other rectors were to be in­formed until the evening of April 13 as well as the incoming residents of Howard Hall. 
This early leak of information gave Sr. M.J. the appearance that her resi­dents were excited by the news and eager to let it be known. This is not the case, for Sr. M.J. has shared herself with Farley for the last three years as our rectress and her absence will be noticed. We support her in her decision and wish her only the best in her new position as Howard's rectress. We realize that your decision cannot be changed, but we hope that in future ar­ticles, you take into account the feelings of Sr. M.J. and show her the respect Farley has for her as well as the con­sideration she deserves. 
Theresa Barnhart Kathleen Hannon Farley Hall 


YEAH, I JU5T NOIUAY. ARE YOUSUR£rHAVE YfXJ
HOIAJ

THINK.IrlAKJM; 1H/!!it AIJO(fT 7HEYlJVE AN/J Yl\'R PAI?E:N5tVER Wfil/.., YEAH. Pee/5/0N$15 HARP. INA 5AT{)()(AJN7DfJ/5CIJ55 ONCE. IAJHtN I
YOUR. 

most Catholics do not accept the au­thority claims of their Church. In actual belief and practice, they are much closer to the protestant view. 
This is apparent from the fact that many Catholics do not accept explicitly defined dogmas of their Church. For example, I have talked with several Catholics who are doubtful, at best, about the Marian dogmas, even though these have the status of infallible doctrine in their Church. Such Catholics have often made it clear to me that they believe the basic Christian doctrine as defined in the creeds. But they frankly admit that they think their Church has taken some wrong turns in her recent history. Where this is the case, they do not feel compelled to follow. As one of my functional protestant friends put it: "I am a Roman Catholic, but I am more concerned about being Catholic than about being Roman." 
That many Catholics are functionally protestant is also evident in their atti­tude toward the distinctive moral teachings of their Church The obvious example here is the Roman Catholic teaching that all forms of "artificial" birth control are immoral. The official view was re-affirmed explicitly by Pope Paul Vl in his encyclical Humanae Vitae, and has been reiterated again and again by Pope John Paul II. Nevertheless, as the arti­cle on Humanae Vitae in the En­cyclopedic Dictionary of Religion noted, "the papal ban is simply being ignored," and "a concrete authority crisis has thus emerged." 
I attended the recent debate on abor­tion between Fr. James Burtchaell and Daniel Maguire. It is interesting to me that Fr. Burtchaell, who eloquently defended the conservative view on abortion, admitted to a questioner that he rejects his Church's teaching on birth control. I could not help but wonder: is Fr. Burtchaell, Catholic statesman though he is, also among the 
Garry Trudeau 
MAYBE. YOU THE-Y JUST fAJEI?E RIJ<;H/NG IUE.I?EN'T THCM. 50ME. 
THeRe5 NO ON& 7D IJREAM 5e)IJJAJ... !?5FI:JN5181Lf!Y~ lf/A'j AiJOUT 14. ANO? 
R&AOY. PAI?/3N7S Nl3W
FOl/15!

/)/5CIJ9; 7Hlfll1 tu/TH. lfi()RJJJ! \ \ 
MORET/~.
"'-...... 

I
: \ \ 
..........
I 

functional protestants? 
This raises, of course, the deeper issue here: to what extent can a mem­ber of the Roman Catholic Church dis­agree with the official teachings of his Church and still be a faithful Catholic? Can one reject the teaching of a papal encyclical while remaining a faithful Catholic? If so, can he also reject a doctine which the pope has declared in­fallible. 
I have put these questions to several Catholics. Conservatives have assured me that the answer to both of the latter questions is no. Others insist the answer is yes. 
This brings me to a final point con­cerning functional protestants: they do consider themselves faithful Catholics. I have often pointed out in conversa­tions with such Catholics that their views differ little from mine. Why then remain Catholic I ask. In response, these Catholics make it clear to me that they love their Church and intend to remain loyal to it. More than one has compared the Church to his family. One's family makes mistakes, but one does not therefore choose to join an­other family. 
I am not sure what to make of this response. It is not clear to me that one can line up behind Luther in holding that Popes and councils have erred in 
their doctrinal and moral pronounce­ments, and still be a faithful Catholic. But on the other hand, things have changed since the 16th Century. It is no longer the case that a Catholic will be excommunicated for holding what Lut­her held. Perhaps this is just another sign that the Reformation is -despite the pope's best efforts -finally taking hold within the Roman Church. 
Jerry Walls is a graduate student at Notre Dame. 

Quote of the day 

"If blood be shed, let it be our blood. For man lives freely only by his readiness to die, if need be, at the hands of his brother, never by killing him." 
Mahatma Gandhi 
(1869-1948) 

VieWP-Oint Thursday, April23, 1987-page 9 

Educational body seen as communistic threat 
The 1976 presidential election brought the United States its biggest political payoff in history. Many people thought that candidates Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale had sold out to the special interests, but nobody could have predicted that a cabinet level voice for communism would result from their wheeling and dealing. Shortly after gaining office, Carter undertook the task of creating the Department of Edu­cation (DOE). One might ask, "What is wrong with trying to improve our na­tion's schools, but Carter created the DOE to pay a political debt to a group of Communists. In return for the en­dorsement of the National Education Association (NEA), the nation's largest teacher's union, Carter gave them a seat in his cabinet in the form of the DOE. The NEA had gained a major vic­tory in their quest to totally take control of our educational system and turn it into a tool of communism. 
Eric Murray 
from the right 

Since the creation of our great nation, education lay in the jurisdiction of the state and local governments. Parents had a voice in what subject their children learned. The NEA has long sought to stop this local control of edu­cation. They wish to centralize, nation­alize our educational system. They wish to take away the parents' voice in their children's education. A nationalization of our school system is important to their objective of turning a public education into a communist indoctrination. The NEA could not achieve their objective if it did not have total control of the nation's school sys­tems. 
Of course, the NEA denies any com­munist ties. The evidence points to the contrary. If NEA actions, advocates, and policies receive close scrutiny, they reveal an organization with deep­rooted communist ties and sympathies. 
Before the election of 1976, American communist William Foster wrote in "Toward a Soviet America" that he considered a Department of Education essential to the communist "cultural revoluiton." It is certainly quite a coin­cidence that the NEA would lobby Pres­ident Carter for just such a department. 
Several times over the past couple of years, the NEA has sponsored delegate exchanges with ''teacher unions'' in the Soviet Union. The NEA had the nerve to publicly praise these communist "union" representatives. Soviet com­munists are not the only ones who receive NEA praise and support. At its 1978 convention, the NEA passed a resolution calling for the United States to grant Hector Marroquin a visa to remain in this country. Marroquin was a communist terrorist wanted in 
Mexico at the time. 
The NEA's pro-Soviet views also find an outlet in the numerous brochures that they put out. For instance, one bro­chure, called "Racism, Sexism, and Militarism: the Links," has a section of "questions frequently asked about the arms race." An excerpt: 
Q: But aren't we risking our way of life if we allow the Russians to get ahead? 
A: The $1 trillion defense budget... will do more to undermine our democratic values and standard of living than anything the Russians can do. 
Q: But how can we trust the Rus­sians? How can we be sure they won't cheat? 
A: We can trust them as much as they can trust us. This thinly veiled argument for unilateral disarmament has not gone unnoticed. 
They published another brochure en­titled "Choices: A Unit in Conflict and Nuclear War." In addition to the usual pro-Soviet, anti-nuke rhetoric, they had the audacity to blame the Soviet inva­sion of Afghanistan on "some un-. friendly countries." This brochure has such a strong bias that even the ultra­liberal''Washington Post'' criticized it, saying, "This is not teaching in any ac­cepted, or for that matter acceptable, sense. It is political indoctrination." In the NEA's 15th yearbook, they lashed out at the United States, saying, "We are all brainwashed from childhood to pretend that the United States has no classes or masses. We are all supposed to be Americans, believing that cap­titalism and free enterprise came down to us on stone tablets from the moun­tains." They also praised the Russian school system: "The present capitalis­tic and nationalistic school system has been supplanted in but one place­Russia-and that change was a revolu­tion for social change of an important and far reaching character." They ac­tually advocate a revolution in the United States of America. 
In 1981, the communist newspaper "Daily World" reported: "Nowhere in the basic documents of NEA, in their resolutions or new busniess items, are there any anti-Soviet or anti-socialist positions." That startling statement means that our children's education 
receives  its  direction  from  a  pro­ 
communist organization.  
Decent Americans  should  be  hor­ 
rified at these developments.  For­ 

tunately, all is not lost. Congress and the President, properly lobbied by we the people, can return control of our children's educatioh to where it belongs, in the hands of the people. 
Eric Murray is a sophomore business major. 
Undergrads could make better use of resources 
I wish to thank Mr. Brauer for his comments in your April 6th issue. Al­though he has mentioned some good points, I am not as convinced as he that Notre Dame's Economics department is worthy of increased funding. First, a clarification of some issues. 

Christopher Ryan 
guest column 

Mr. Brauer is correct that the study I cited did include 24, not just 4 journals. However, he is incorrect if he believes that articles earlier than 1978 were in­cluded. The earlier rankings were pub­lished as a comparison, not as an original part of the study period and considering that the endowment has more than doubled since 1974, this only highlights my point that we are not doing as well as we should. Shoud we really be proud of moving from ex­tremely poor to very poor? Is it really "quite alright for the department to be ranked as no. 121"? Mr. Brauer makes Robert Gordon ("We are not in the top ten and we never will be but that's not our goal.") look ambitious. 
Second, Mr. Brauer mentions that Notre Dame's faculty is small though not so small as he may think. In Decem­ber, 1981 the American Economic As­sociation published a special issue of the A.E.R. which listed the names of every member of the Association at each campus. Using these lists we can control for the effect of faculty mem­bers who publish in Economics but are not formally in an Economics depart­ment. In this list, Notre Dame had 32 
A.E.A. members. For comparison, Southern Cal which has a smaller en­dowment than Notre Dame had 35 
A.E.A. members. Yet Southern Cal's publishing, in the 1984 A.E.R. ranking ( Page 823), was far greater than Notre Dame's: 518.9 pages vs. 58.2 pages for Notre Dame. Faculty size explains only a small part of the difference. 
As to graduate studentfaculty ratios, "An Assessment of Research-Doc­torate Programs in the United States" (Social and Behavioral Sciences, pg 5, 1982) reports that Notre Dame has 60 graduate students. Combining this with Mr. Brauer's 20 faculty members Notre Dame's ratio is 3.0. By comparison, Berkeley's was 5.2, Chicago's was 4.4, Columbia's was 7.6, Harvard's was 3.8, MIT's was 3.5 and Johns Hopkins' was 
5.8. As to specialization, 2 points. First, Notre Dame's department is not sub­stantially smaller than some so-called big departments. Compare Notre Dame to Berkeley's 26, MIT's 25, Chicago's 27, Johns Hopkins' 7, and Rochester's 15. Second, specialization of subject matter. The 24 journals in­luded in the ranking are listed (A.E.R., 
72:5 pg 1132). The journals include Eco­nomic Development and Cultural Change, Industrial and Labor Relations Review, Journal of Human Resources, Journal of Law and Economics, and the National Tax Journal. In addition, the general journals publish articles in those fields, though only "above average" one's, as Mr. Brauer com­plains. 
As to faculty resources: in my previ­ous letter I was far too kind on the issue of faculty pay. The full professors were 31st in the country, but the other aca­demic ranks were even higher. Accor­ding to the July 26, 1985 Notre -Dame Report (pg 645) associate professors were 11th, assistant professors were ulty office building. Is this a lack of resources? 
Mr. Brauer believes that ranking of Economics departments by their publishing output makes little sense. Well, the national "An Assessment of..." (pg. 59), ranks programs on several points. Let's see how it ranks Notre Dame. There were four areas which bore on the quality of graduate education most directly. On a 5 point scale (5-distinguished, 4-strong, 3-good, 2-adequate, 1-marginal, 0-not sufficient for doctoral education), Notre Dame ranked 0.9 for scholarly quality of fac­ulty. It ranked 0.6 for effectiveness in educating research scholars. It ranked 
0.9 for improvement in program quality 1977-82. It ranked 0.4 in evalulators' familiarity with the work of the faculty, an indicator of the lack of influence of Notre Dame's faculty. 
In other words, the faculty is sub­marginal, the education is sub­marginal, the improvement is sub­marginal, and what little is published is soon forgotten. Is this a graduate pro­gram that merits more resources? No. This is a graduate program that should be abolished, not enriched. 
Mr. Brauer claims that he did not come to Notre Dame for the stipend, which is lower than that of other schools. For his information other schools do not automatically subsidize their graduate students with stipends and tuition waivers. Should under­graduates be forced to subsidize sub­marginal graduate students? At the University of Chicago (no. 1 of the dreaded top ten), few graduate stu­dents get any support besides loans. Yet Chicago's graduate students finish their programs three years sooner than Notre Dame's, according to "An As­sessment of...". I wish it were true that the quality of graduate students was as high as Mr. Brauer claims. How remarkable to be accepted for graduate study at Amherst, which does not have a graduate program. Personally, I have always seen the undergraduates as far abler than Notre Dame's graduate stu­dents. As an undergraduate college Notre Dame was ranked "Most Com­petitive" the highest rating by Barron's Guide to the Most Prestigious Colleges <New York, 1984). The comment I made in the previous letter was that the graduate students do not go on to teach at the best universities. For proof of this see the alumni notes at the back of the Notre Dame Magazine. Or you can write to the current author of the eco­nomics alumni notes. He can be reached at the University of Wyoming. 
Mr. Brauer notes that Notre Dame's emphasis on social justice sets it apart. Maybe so. But the test of success is whether your peers are following your lead. After twelve years I don't see much impact. Perhaps that is why it is set apart -nobody copies a failure. 
Finally, let's not forget the other graduate departments. They aren't doing much better. The real questions is, are our graduate programs an asset or a liability? I see little evidence that they are an asset, with the exception of Chemical Engineering. If they are a liability, they should be scaled back or abolished, and the money should be diverted to the undergraduates. 
Christopher Ryan is a 1978 graduate of Notre Dame and is currently the Vice President of Forbes Information Ser­vices. 
General Board

Ihe Observer 
Editor·in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ........................... .................... Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark McLaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opin1ons on campus, through letters. is encouraged. Founded November3, 1968 

r 
r 
r 
F 




A turn for the better 
ratses
Bike-Aid '87 • 
PATII TRIPATHI 
features writer 
1a)t can't change the 
11Vworld, but we can change our little corner of 
it." This famous line from 
MASH can be applied to the 
efforts of Notre Dame sop­
homores Chris Ballas and 
Wayne Warnken. 
Ballas and Warnken will set forth on a biking expedi­tion across America on June 17 in an effort to change many little corners of the world as well as to educate our little corner about world hunger and poverty. 
"We're Interested in the problem of poverty. We can't stop poverty. but we can be­come aware of it--especially at Notre Dame," said Ballas, expressing his concern about many people's ignor­ance of world hunger. 
Sponsored by the Over­seas Development Network (ODN), a coalition of student groups on college campuses nationwide, Bike-Aid '87: Peddling for Progress hopes to raise at least $100,000 to support self-help efforts around the world. Demand­
L 
ooking for something new and exciting to ex­perience on the Notre Dame campus? Have you forgotten how to smile? Could you use a few laughs from time to time? Then hold on-­starting next fall The Obser­ver will begin regularly publication of the comic strip of your choice. 
Watch this space. Next 


money for the needy 
Ing perseverance and Indi­vidual effort, Bike-Aid is in­tended to symbolize that both cycling and develop­ment progress gradually. 
Ballas and Warnken will be peddling 3,600 miles, averaging 72 miles each day. Their Individual goal is to raise $3,600 or $1 for each mile they travel. 
"It's grueling. but it's worth the experience," said Ballas, "People have been very helpful so far. VeiTee Boyer Sports is providing us with riding equipment." 
The organizers say the 
proceeds from the eight­
week biking marathon will 
fund projects both at home 
and in Third World commun­
iti~s. 50% of the proceeds 
raised will go to self-help 
projects sponsored by ODN 
In Africa, Asia, and Latin 
America. 25% will go to 
Oxfam-America and other 
innovative International 
groups sharing ODN's self­
help philosophy. Specific 
projects in Appalachia and 
other areas in the U.S. will 
benefit in addition to a fel­
lowship program that 
enables financially needy 
Strip contest announced 
week four comic strips will appear on the Accent page, and it will be up to you to vote for the one that you'd 
like to see appear in The 
Observer. 
Who says students can't change anything on this campus? Make your opinion known and exercise your right to vote. 
college students to volunteer with development projects overseas. 
There are five routes leaving from Western and Southern cities, and Ballas and Warken will be travelling the San Francisco route through Sacramento, Reno, Salt Lake City, Denver, and Saint Louis. 
"We will be volunteering for community service along the way. Our accomodations may be at churches, gyms, or campgrounds at the host communities," said Warnken, who witnessed Tim McLelan of the Class of '86 
successfully complete the 
project last year. 
Currently working for the 
Peace Corps in Niger, 
McLelan was one of the 4 2 
college students to partici­
pate in Bike-Aid '86. The 
bikers ranged in age from 
15 to 55, the median age 

being 22. Although many of 
the riders last year were col­
lege students, ODN en­

courages everyone to partici­
pate. 
Ballas and Warnken will 

meet all the other cyclists in 
washington D.C. on August 

12 to peddle together to the 
United Nations in New York 
City on August 19 for the 
grand finale. 
The ODN information 
booklet emphasizes the 

symbolic value of the several 
routes that various riders 

will follow: "By starting from 
different cities and converg­
ing at the end, we empha­
size that there are many 
paths to progress." 
Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 10 

British cheer on tap 
T 
here isn't a Senior Bar In London--no Brldglt's, no Commons, no Chips. Tuesday night is not Margaritaville here, and dime beers don't exist (mostly because dimes don't exist). But there is extremely interesting alternative: The English Pub. 
Pubs are, and have been, very popular throughout England's history. Most of them are hundreds of years old. Today there are two or three on every street corner, and most are painfully crowded on weekend 
Lisa Young 
The London Bridge 

With names ranging from The Clarence, Rose and 
Crown, and 
Prince Alfred's to the Redan and the Royal Oak, fondly referred 
as the Royal Smoke, the Interior motifs are all slightly different. 
One thing they all have in common, though, is a sharp contrast 
to the U.S. collegiate crowd bars. They are a step above in decor 
history, and clientele behavior. 
Price Edward's Is a typical pub, and being just down the street 
from our residences, it Is frequented by Notre Dame students. 
The walls are lined with green velvet benches, fronted by small 
mahoghany tables and velvet stools. The pub is carpeted, 
moderately lit, and seats about 80. The walls are dotted with 
prints and cartoons and mahoghany paneling. 
A massive bar stands in the middle of the pub. A small display 
houses English pub delicacies such as steak and kidney pie or 
Shepherd's Pie. The middle wall holds liquors In convenient 
dispensable bottles, although the predominant beverage here is, 
of course, beer. 
Most pubs are owned by the brewing companies of England, 
as Courage, Younger's or Samuel Smith's. Each pub, therefore, has different brands of beer, but the options are the same--lager, ale, bitter, elder, or shandy. Lager Is the closes•tl to American beer; It is a gold-colored, fairly light-tasting beer. 
and bitter come from the same brewing family, ale having less of a bite than the dark brown frothy bitter. Cider is a tasty 
potent fruity drink derived from the familiar sweet elders. finally, the shandy. It tastes much better than It sounds: It Is usually lager mixed with carbonated lemonade. In addition to these British brews, some pubs have Lite or Budweiser on tap those feeling homesick. 
The beer here Isn't quite as warm as we expected, although It far from Ice-cold. In pubs It Is served by the pint and half-pint, but the measure Is an imperial pint of 20 ounces rather than 16. When ordering your beer, keep in mind the unwritten rule of British manners: ladles should only order half-pints. ( A rule we aggressive American women often Ignore.) It Is not unmanly, though, for men to order half-pints. There are no drink specials In pubs, but cover Is never charged. 
The word "pub" comes from the original reference to these drinking establishments. They were known as public houses, because they were not private clubs. History has determined one of the most unusual aspects of the pubs--serving hours. They vary from pub to pub, but in London pubs must not serve between 3:00·5:30 p.m. and after 11:00 p.m. Reliable sources that Ute afternoon hours law began during World War I to stop drunkenness among munitions workers and soldiers on leave. The 11:00 p.m. closing law Is most likely due to the fact that the Tube (subway system) closes about midnight. Only restaurants and clubs are allowed to serve after 11.00 p.m. 
Most often pubs are important for the Infamous "pub crawl." This usually entails having a pint at each of a number of pubs. ultimately ending in a "crawl" home. We undertook a literary crawl last week, visiting old stomping grounds of English urriTPlr... • We began at "The Cheshire Cheese." just down the street from Dr. Johnson's home and one of his favorite pubs. Another stop was at "Ye aide CockTavern," frequented by Samuel Pepus and Tennyson, where Dickens ellioyed his last meal In public. 
Here in England, then, a pint of bitter. a dart board, and a slightly outdated jukebox at the pub make up for the bottles of Mi5heiob, the pool tables, and the video screens we left In the South Bend bars. Until next fail, then, as they say in London, "Cheers." 






Business 
Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 11 
Student entrepreneur beats summertime blues 
By RENEE GAU 
Business Writer 
After An Tostal and the in­tensity of exam week, the ap­peal of working at Leo's Grill, Verna's Retail, or Le Chateaux may have dwindled. Those long, hard hours of play and study demand an equally chal­lenging and exciting summer. There must be a self fulfilling way to use what you have learned at Notre Dame which not only rakes in the money, but also gives you experience. One option is starting a small business. 
Joe Pupel, a senior account­ing major, did just that the summer after his junior year. His brother and brother-in-law had started Woodlawn Yard Structures, a children's playset construction company. Even though he had no experience, Joe entered as a 20 percent shareholder and offered his skills to help manage the com­pany. 
Pupel explains that his job is 
Arms dealer model businessman 
No matter how liberal governments have been Bend, take your pick of these cities. All have the or will become, capitalism will still thrive in its highest growth rates and should be great places 
ugliest form. Sarkis Saghanalian of Britian is living proof. 
According to Fortune Magazine, Saghanalian arrived in the United States with only $46 in his pocket after almost being killed during a shady arms deal. Living a ruthless story of pure capitalism, he has built his company into a premier private seller of arms with $100 million in profits per year. 
Saghanalian will sell to anybody, including the black market. He has dealt with South Africa, 
Brian Murray 

\,;;,•":.1 
~ 

-----------------;._., strongest growth trends. Every year miles of de-
Afghanistan, rebels in Central America and An­gola, Iran and Iraq. Saghanalian will stop at noth­ing to make a sale, and is willing to demonstrate his products. He once captured an Iranian military unit while showing arms to Iraq. Saghanalian has no problem deliverying arms to even the hottest fronts, and if the country is too war torn to afford guns, he will arrange a loan. 
Governments, including our own, will not touch him. Many times he is called upon to provide arms to one country when another does not want its name mentioned. He is rumored to have sold arms to Iran for the United States in the recent Iran debacle. 
With all of the liberal interests vowing to end 
trade, its comforting to know that one can 
make a killing in a capitalist world. Sarkis ;,a~·""''"lian is literally doing just that. 
If you are looking for a place to settle after graduation that has all of the excitement of South 
Market worries drop Dow 51.13 points 
NEW YORK -The stock mar­ket took a sharp drop Wednes­day, giving back most of its big gains from the previous session 
concern revived over rising rates. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which had soared 
66.47 points Tuesday, fell back 
51.13 to 2,285.94, for its fifth point decline on record. 
on the New York Stock Exchange came to 185.93 million shares, against 191.34 million in the previous session. 
Analysts said investors were not much impressed by the strong showing Tuesday of the blue chips in the Dow Jones in­dustrial average. They noted that gains in many smaller, secondary issues were less dra­matic. 
Many market-watchers remained uneasy about the out­look for interest rates, which have climbed significantly in recent weeks. 
Rates were mostly higher again Wednesday in the credit markets. Prices of long-term government bonds, which to "pick up the pieces and make them neater." This in­cludes the formulation of a business p' an which outlines their objecl1ves, processes and strategies. He has also im­proved their marketing and in­ventory techniques by drawing up questiotulaires and check­lists. 
Pupel says that before he had joined the company "I didn't know if I had what it took to do the job," but, because he was tired of his old job as an assis­tant golf pro, he accepted the offer of what he calls "an in­valuable experience." Al­though he is now earning less money, Joe believes that he is sacrificing nothing. He is gaining hands-on education which will greatly help him in the future. 
"There is nothing more educational ... than having a hand in a small corporation," says Pupel, "seeing how every­thing interrelates, how man­agement works with market­ing ...(and) how it really fits 
velopment projects have been springing up. Most 
Source: At1os of U.S. Economic r '-"
of this growth has been fueled by the many defense ~~~.....;.;.;.._________________....., 
companies in the area. 
Dallas, believe it or not, is still growing. The commerce of Dallas was not built only on oil. Though it was hurt by the fall of OPEC, the city has bounced back. 
Boston, the hotbed of entrepreneurs and intel­lectuals, is booming. A culturally active city, Bos­ton offers a mix of the old world and the new, as many new Bostonians have discovered. 
Atlanta has avoided growing straight up with the overcrowded towers of modern cities. It has expanded outward, with a fringe growth that has 
almost beaten all other cities. 
Some predict that Washington will be the next second city, and if current trends prevail, this might happen. Of course, most of the growth is based on the government, but if you are a govern­ment major it has possibilities. 
to live well into the next century. 
Los Angeles is quickly becoming the number one city. Some predict its population will surpass New York. According to one knowledgable resi­dent, the employers in Los Angeles are desperate for young talent to serve its professional business sector, and will pay heavily for it. 
New York is seeing a reversal in its dismal growth trend, and the experts are now predicting that it will once again lead the country. If you are 
planning a career in advertising, the arts or finance, New York is the place to be. Be prepared for a high pressured mix of everything this city has to offer and finding a good suburb in which to live, preferrably in Conneticut or New Jersey. 
Phoenix, my personal choice, has one of the into the real world." 
Obviously, there is risk in­volved in starting a small busi­ness. It requires money, effi­cient management and a good product. With these, however, anyone should be well on their way to success, right? Well, yes, but Joe Pupel states, "You can have the most efficient pro­duction process in the world and if you can't sell an item you're not going to make it." He says it requires optimism, determination and a person­able personality at all times, especially when the going gets tough. 
But what about the four years of time and effort students devote to their education. Doesn't that help? 
Joe Pupel maintains that his Notre Dame academic educa­tion will help him achieve his goals of being a CPA and aquir­ing a secure job. In the day-to­
day operations of a small busi­ness, however, Pupel says that instincts and ambition are more important than educa­
move in the opposite direction from interest rates, fell more than $10 for every $1,000 in face value. 
With the renewed volatility of interest rates and interest-rate futures, brokers said, profes­sionals have been very active lately in computer-program trades involving stock-index futures and individual stocks. 
Losers among the blue chips included International Busi­ness Machines, down 2% at 154%. 

tion. "It requires 80 percent guts and 20 percent brains to run a company." 
"After two weeks (in the business) I had applied just about everything I had learned in school," Pupel explains. Furthermore, he says that somethings which he had studied, such as the economic order theory, are not applica­ble to his business. Pupel's con­cern is "making ends meet." "You do what you have to do to get by." 
Joe Pupel credits Notre Dame for giving him the drive to achieve, and the ability to accept and resolve the chal­lenges he faces in business. He fervently believes that Notre Dame sports, more so than the academics, have instilled in him the · enthusiasm, "the guts," and the optimistic atti­tude which he needs. He sites the North Carolina game this year and the UCLA game in '74, explaining that "Notre Dame athletics gives someone so many examples of how to win 
Top Five States In Predicted Employment 
Gro~(1982-2000 
(IN THOUSANDS OF JOBS) 
954 

G owth O'--erver Graphic/Geoff Sauer 



IRS resists bill whic shifts accountability 
Associated Press is more intrusive. The provision shifting the 
WASHINGTON In a burden of proof is one of country where "innocent until several in a measure, called proven guilty" is a basic the "taxpayers' bill of right, the Internal Revenue rights," aimed at curbing the Service is resisting a bill that powers of the IRS. The mea­would shift to the IRS the bur-sure, which is being consid­den of proving that a tax ered by the subcommittee, return is incorrect. grows out of years of com­
"I don't think it's (a ques-plaints that some IRS tion of) guilty until proven in-employees have trampled nocent," IRS commissioner taxpayers' rights. Lawrence B. gibbs says in "The question before us ­drawing a contrast between here today is what can we do civil tax law, which places the to protect the rights of our burden of proof on the tax-citizens without handicapping payer, and criminal law, the tax-collection system," which requires the govern-said Sen. David Pryor, D­
ment to prove its case. 
Since the taxpayer has access to all the information to show whether a return is correct, Gibbs said, "the bur­den is on the taxpayer to show he's reported all income and is entitled to deductions and credits claimed." 
The commissioner told a Senate Finance subcommit­tee Tuesday that shifting the burden of proof to the IRS would result in a system that Ark., subcommittee chair­man and a sponsor of the bill. "If we find that it is impossible under the existing procedures to preserve the basic due-process right of tax­payers, then Congress is obliged to make reforms." 
Since the panel's opening hearing on the bill April 10, Pryor said, he has received more than 400 letters, most of them telling "horror stories" about alleged abuses. 
when you're not supposed to or of how guts, intensity and de­termination will win in the end all the time." 
And when you succeed, Pupel says, either in a game or a busi­ness, you can say to those dis­believers, "Oh yeah! Well, we just did it." 
Therefore, if you are thinking of starting your own business, but you are afraid of the risks, ''Go for it,'' says Pupel. ''Ifyou ever get the chance to be a part of a business, do it. Even if you 
have to take a cut in pay, it's 
• 
so much better than working at a meaningless job." By working in a company you have taken a part in, Joe says, the satisfaction and achievement you experience will be the "best feeling." 
Pupel's final advice, "It really doesn't matter what your GPA is. It really doesn't matter what your major is. It's guts and enthusiasm and maybe a little bit of morals that will win in the end in any busi­ness." 

~-----~--------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 12 
.... 
Sports Briefs · 
The White Sox and the Brewers were rained out Wednesday night: The game will be played on Thursday, May 21, at 7 p.m. CDT. -Associated Press 
SMC aerobics instructors for next year are needed. Send resumes to Mary Jo Lambert or call Angela Athletic Facility at 5549. -The Observer 
Ohio State's All-American wide receiver, Chris Carter, has been suspended from participating in spring practices, the school announced Wednesday. Carter was suspended for violating team rules.-Associated Press 
_ 

The Blue-Gold Game will be played Saturday, ~pril25, at 1:30 p.m. The 57th Annual spring football game 1s sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. Students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at Gates 15 and 16 only. General admission tickets are available in advance at Gate 10 of the ACC from 9-5, Mon­day through Saturday. Prices are: $3.00 for adults, $4.00 on game day, $1.50 for kids, $2.00 on game day. -The Ob­server 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Soviets to play Jr. Hoosiers 
Associated Press 

ANDERSON, Ind. -Co-Mr. Basketballs Jay Edwards and Lyndon Jones headline a Hoosier squad that will play a touring Soviet junior basket­ball team at the Anderson Wig­wam on May 19. 
The Soviet Union's 19-and­under junior national team has played in Anderson four previ­ous times, splitting the series with Indiana squads from 1977­80. 
The ObMner Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObMner Saint M.,ya office, located on the third floor of HaggarCollge Center, accepts cluslfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day clualfleda Is 3 p.m. All clualfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters perday. 
~N_O_T_IC_Es~JI~--W_A_NT_ED__~  HELPit I NEED GRAD TICKETS. ITS NOT MY FAULT THAT THEY'RE GIVING 375 SEATS TO THE BLOODY MEDIA, BUT I'VE GOT TO GET MY  needed: rides to and from the U2 CON· CERT in Chicago for two people. $$$$ call Paul 2287.  WALLY STACK FOR UMOC WALLY STACK FOR UMOC  Blank Generation Theodore's tonight 10­1 God I wonder if they'll show up? Wally "Cool W" Steck  
MOMDADBROTHERSISTERSISTER  BREWER FEVERII -CATCH ITII  for  
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA AND HAVE A FULL nME JOB AND I NEED A PLACE TO UVE. THIS WILL BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727.  NDMOM INTO THE ACC ... NOT 1liE CCE ... AND THEY'LL ONLY GIVE ME THREE TICK­ETS ... AFTER I GAVE THEM $40,000 ... (gratitude? HAHII) HELPII WE'RE TALKING BUCKS HEREIII PLEASE CALL KEVIN, 283-2139, ANmME DAY OR NIGHTIII  YOUTH IN ASIA and BUND RIVER Thursday. 10 p.m. -2 a.m. Duke's Bistro  They've renamed the library after Fr. Ted I Now we can call it THE TEDDY 'BRAR' Ill (If the ACC is named after Joyce, can we call it "The Ned Shed"?) !IAUOITIONSI! IIAUDITIONS!!  UGLY MAN ON CAMPUS Vote "Cool W" lor UMOC STACY Thanks for lhe memories ---the electrical  
...............................\................................ UNIVERSITY RESUME Pro!Halonal ReeumH Student Rlltea Near the Mall 272-41338 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$-·· Non-texts for S$$tredll next fall. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just oft of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI 10·530, ph. 233-2342 -·· PRO-TYPE Quality work, word proceulng avail­able. Reasonable .. 277-5833.  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, arts&cratts, tennis, all land and water aports, gymnastics, drama, piaooplay for shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, mOdel rock· etry, guitar, radio, video,archery, year­book, woodworking, AN and · typists. Write:Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779­9406. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­INGS 814-381-4224.  Lst me make an offer for 1 graduation ticket. Call Tom at 233-5065 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Are you going lo be here for SUMMER SCHOOL??? If so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues of lhe newspaper.  no joke/ last chance to see YOUTH IN ASIA Duke's Bistro Thursday, 10 to 2 a.m. with BUND RIVER BUND RIVER with YOUTH IN ASIA Thursday, Duke's Bistro Invest in YOUR future with a Kaplan LSA T prep course. Class begins 5'12 for the &'15 LSA T 272·4135. I need a roommate next year at Stanford. Please call John at 283·1814.  !!AUDITIONSII NOTRE DAME FOLK CHOIR for '87-'88 Contact Campus Min­istry al 239-5242 Nominations for Pangborn's Mister Section 3 are now being accepted. Given annually to the senior who best ex­emplifies the character and tradition of Section 3, contact your local section rep­resentative. LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR The Place 1st Word Oh say, oh say can'l you see that it's not do, re, or mi It's not fa, nor so, nor te and certainly not back to do (Maria von Trapp, The Sound of Music) 2nd Word II can be found in the lines of your palm In tea leaves, or a gypsy's crystal ball And if you're to find Goodbar in lhe near future This should tell you some of the all  wires, the hayfield, your volkswagen, the rest stop, !he dice. your earrings and the hayfield again. I'm still waiting for the phone booth. What started out as friendship has indeed grown stronger. I now only have ayes for you. Love, THE BAPnST SEAN PETER O"BRIEN The jukin' and jivin' junior pre-med throat and the newest NO tennis team god. You big stud. Congrats! Hard work and "discipline" do pay off. MCAT Day, April 25. Chill Baby! Good things come to those who wail. Jam on them. What will be next? Heppy An T ostal!  
The jobs are varied and, if you are inter­ LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR The  (COOL) RICK DiDONATO You'll prob­ 
ested in newspaper training in your spare  SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  placa wrthin lhe place Part of it's name  ably be more dangerous now that you're  
LOST/FOUND LOST: 20-inch gold chain on Stepan Courts last Wednesday, 4-1 during Boolcatore game.lf found, please call Vin at £2159.  Need summer babysitlers with own trans­portation. Pick your hrs. Auna 287-3315 Need a female roommate for summer maybe fall too. Call Maureen at SMC 5243.  time, call The Observer offices and ask for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. The Observer and Special Olympics NEEDS YOUIII DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M  Dick Clark is here lo continue lhe countdown: "Coming in at number 24 is a group that has been comforting graduates since before Bon Jovi was born ~ .. SuMy Day and the Warm Tem­peratures.· 24 Days left 24 Days left 24 Days left  is in lhe fiUe of a John Millon tome (The first part of !hal book's title is Adam and Eve's old home) Part of it's in "Eureka" which you'll surely shout When to you lhe answer comes about Hey Nat, how's rt going. Hi Tricia H. Guess who? Hoo-Rahll  211 1 can't wait! Happy Birthday (and 8 months) to !he infinity! STEVE CANNON How about dinner next week? I'm looking forwanl to seeing you egaini!--Christi!3 p.s. see you Friday nite at 1he bash"  
FOUND: Woman's wedding band, out­side law school. Call Gary at 234-8984. lost, grey Boston College sweatshirt, Stepan 3, Friday at the Bookstore games, please return to Badin 307-3713  WANTED BLUEMLE for U.M.O.C He's UGLY to lhe BONE  NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FULL· TIME JOB, AND I NEED A PLACE TO UVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. 1desperately need 2 Graduation tickets.  There was a lot of smoke, bul no FIRE. So, how did I get BURNED? The MOO MAMA says, "Give it upl He's a dork, a deadbeat, and a dud. The 3 D's for DEADLY."  D.C. CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK The D.C. Club w~l run a baggage truck to transport all D.C. area student's baggage home. You will receive a newsletter with further datails later next week. Questions call Mike at 3380  It only comes OPIC8 a year-CASE DAY! Party with The FELLAS Safurday on Green Field. GOOBER CLUE 2 The DUCK was black And liked to QUACK.  
LOST::Silver Bracelet al Bridget's Apr 2nd High Sentimental Value-Rewan! Call Kathy284-4371  NEED RIDER leaving 517, M1 to D.C. KAREN SMC 4011 ASAP  If you help me, I will ensure your financial future, and finance your Senior Week Call Mark at 2339. OK this is my final ofter for Graduation  Desparately seeking a dynamic person­ality: energy-zappers need nol apply. GNg Kerr Ia a god, because he drtvH like the devil.  ·····:·····························-··························· Attention: John and Sheila are acting like two-year otds. Drop off Gerber's Baby food to 425 Keenan or 202 Holy Cross.  But now Ws dead Cuz we cui off its HEAD. PRIZE: GOOBERS or RAISINETIES, your choice! Contact MJ at Howard lo claim.  
LOST: Black purse, wallet, and check·  INDIANAPOLIS-BOUND GRADS!  tickets. I'll give you my sister and my  U2nX  
books In 01 lot. You can keep lhe cash, credit, and checks (thay've all been can­called anyway) but PLEASE return my  female roommate needed June 1st call: Mary Bsth 284-5134  roommate for two Graduation tickets. They do not even have lo be together. Call Mark at 2339.  Thanks, -MSP  Only S25 apiece! Call Dick at 1787  Quote of the Day: "You have some really good books here" (overheard on the 9th floor of lhe Hesbraire) ... lhe Hesbraire. I  
10 or license so I can go out again. Call  really like the sound of that. Maybe it will  
287-3940 or send toP. 0. Box 972, Notre  SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$-·­ ·A mere suit cannot redeem one of infinite  become a trend...  
Dame. Thanks.  Non-texts for $$$tredit next fall. PAN­ boredom." -NANCE  
DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just  Kate ''the a-t" Mullaney lor UMOC  THERESA  HARRINGTON  THERESA  
FOUND: beige scarf at the Charity Ball. To claim call 31196.  FOR SALE  off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI 1Q-530 ph. 233-2342  SENIOR HOLY CROSS HOGSIIII  Kate "the BMat" Mullaney for UMOC Kete "the BMat" Mullaney for UMOC  THERESA THERESA THERESA THERESA  THERESA  
(Oid)Paul, Rich, Pete (Schlump), Larry  Kate "the BMat" Mullaney for UMOC  
Lost: Citizen's watch -Roman numerals  DONNA, LEE, MICHELLE, AND M.T.:  (LEroy).Dan,  Doug  (FHI),  Pat  Kate "the BNat" Mullaney for UMOC  DANNY GREEN'S SISTER ARRESTED  
with brown leather band. Somewhere on  THANKS FOR MAKING 21 SO SPECIAL  (Molehead), Frank, Dave B., Vinnie, Tom  FOR COUNTERFEITING MILLIONS  
SMC campus. Please call 284-4288. FOUND: Woman's prescription  1986 TREK BIKE for sale. Bsst offer. Call Pat2n-8535  HERE'S TO NELSEN THE WAITER AND FUNNY LOOKING HATS THAT MAKE YOU FEEL A UTILE MEXICAN ...  F., Joe P., John (ny Wad), Chris H., and ANYONE ELSE I've forgotten!!! Thanks for all you've done for me, and for the  SHE'S BAD! SHE'S BEASTL Yl  TO PAY FOR HER PHONE BILL AND BIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR HER BRO­THER!  
eyeglasses at bus stop near Law School on Monday, April 13. Call 272-7949 to  cjf  YOU GUYS ARE THE BEST CONI  lifetime of memories! You'll never know how much I'll miss you. May you have  AND SHE'S RUNNING FOR UMOC! VOTE FOR KATE "WITH EXTRA, EX·  That's right Dan, the I.R.S. took back the Porsche I was lo give you for your  
identify.  cjf  TRACIE T. FETTERS: THERE ARE FEW WORDS I COULD SAY THAT  all lhe good heallh and happiness pos­siblell I LOVE YOU GUYSIII Jan  TRA CHEESE" MULLANEY FOR UMOC  Birthday! Happy birthday from SING SING. Love, your sis Sherry  
Dark blue, Puma warmup jacket with keys on N.D. keychain on 4"14 Stepan  cjf  WOULD EXPRESS HOW I FEEL, SO I'LL JUST TELL YOU THAT BILL  Sadder than !he Bsastie Boys More pow~ erful than a shot of Tequila Able lo drink  Will It be bachelor £1, 2, or 3?  
Bookstore courts. Please contact Paul at 234-7564. Keys are only set I have.  elf  CALLED AND SAID HIS NEW ROOM NUMBER IS 227 ... SOMEHOW YOU  Will Rick wear a dress? Will Czar be sober? Will Paul probe young women  an entire pitcher of beer in a single gulp It's Kete "the Beast" Mullaney lor  Come see Thursday 7:00 at Angela'  
MANAGED TO MAKE ME A HAPPY 21  wilh drum equipment? Will Byron !he  UMOC  
YEAR OLD EVEN THOUGH I SPENT  Tone Master develop any sense of  SOOZ:  
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION GLASSES (LADIES) in a soft black case on North Quad Tuesday night. Call Craig (not Dave, Greg, Greg, Dan or Joe) .at ND­1694  ...cjf t·ehlrte still on alzee ... call 2139 anytime... ... five buckelll...  aale•••all  MORE TIME IN A PHONE BOOTH THAN I EVER THOUGHT I WOULD ON MY BIRTHDAY... LETS HOPE BIRTHDAY WISHES CAN COME TRUE, EVEN IF IT WAS ALL HIS FAULTIII THANK YOU, MY FRIEND ... A TOAST  rhythm? Will Chris show up? To find out, catch Blank Generation al TheOdore's on Thurs., 10 to 1. Some people are ugly, bul !heir ugly is only skin deep. BLUEMLE FOR  KATE MULLANEY FOR UMOC KATE MULLANEY FOR UMOC Forget all those other wimps who are running for UMOC. Put a "real man" in office. Vole Kate Mullaney for UMOC. KATE MULLANEY FOR UMOC  HAPPY PSEUDO-BIRTHDAY HONEY!! I LOVE YOU II GET READY FOR TODAY AND THE NEXT TWO YEARS. LOVE ALWAYS­BETH  
......  cjf  TO SAND IN THE WIND AND THE IDIOT THAT DIDN'T EVEN KNOW SHE WAS  U.M.O.C.  KATE MULLANEY FOR UMOC  
cjf  THROWIN' IT (I WAS TOO BUSY NOT  He's UGLY lo the BONE  MOM: He liked your sausage strada and  
FOR RENT  cjf cjf  HAVING TIME TO BE FUNNY) CHARLES WILLIAMS AND LIFE FOREVER LOVE, CONI (OTHERWISE KNOWN AS DELUTED)  BLUEMLE for U.M.O.C. NEED CASH? We will give you $80 for  BLANK GENERATION They're ugly, rude.... And they drink too much Thursday nlghl Theodore's 1Q-1  your homemade muffins... l'm starting to get worried. Anyway, thanks for your hard work. Tell Jerome, Katie, and Senior to take it easy. Love, T.M.  
your four Neil Diamond tickets (in padded  
FOR  SALE  : 19n Corolla  SR5,  air,  TODD  SMITH:  YOU  ARE  BEING  seats sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12) and  No doubt about it.  
6  bedroom  4-6  students  $400-500  &  73000 mi, ideal student car price negoti­ SCOPEDI!  give you four free bleacher tickets. Call  Wally Stack for UMOC  
utilities. Security system 234 6688  able, call 239-5795  236-2495 and ask for Theresa.  Happy 20th Julie! To the coolest SMiC  
Thank You St. Jude P.N.  chick I knowl Have a blast as you leave  
FURNISHED  HOMES  FOR  NEXT  Moving  off-campus?  Need  furniture?  MOMMY DONAHUE-Welcome to SMC!  you teen years behind! your little sis at  Rawhide for UMOC  
SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­ Graduating seniors will sell bed, table,  "THE PURPOSE OF LIFE, AFTER ALL,  LOVE, WEEN  NO  
8889  chir, lamps, dresser and much, much  IS TO LIVE IT, TO TASTE EXPERIENCE  
more. Everything must GOIII Let's make  TO THE UTMOST, TO REACH OUT  ARE  YOU  GOING  TO  IU  I desperately need a ride to Bloomington  
FURNISHED  HOUSE  NEXT  YEAR  a deal! Call Joe and Tony 2n-7209.  EAGERLY AND WITHOUT FEAR FOR  LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR  BLOOMINGTON  THIS  WEEKEND  ?  Frid. and a ride back Sun. Call Mary at  
GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 3684t.188·0955  277­ FOR  SALE  LOOK  GOOD  FOR  THE  NEWER AND RICHER EXPERIENCE." I wish to do exactly that at Purdue this  Somewhere on campus there is a Mr. Goodbar wrapper. Until Friday, there will  TAKE ME WITH YOU I CALL NIKKI -283· 3785.  284-5426.  
SUMMER!  2  NEW  PAIRS  OF  weekend. Desperately seeking a ride lo  be clues in The Observer !hat will lead  "Go away from my window.  
SUMMER SCHOOL SPECIAL  REEBOKSI SIZE 9 11.! MUST SELL $45 OR BEST OFFER. £4020  West Lafayette. Call Patti £2966.  to il. If you find the wrapper, you win.  An Ode lo FARMS~ We met last summer...  Leave at your own chosen speed. I'm not the one you want, Babe,  
2 BAs remaining in large  Andy H., I Love You. I Want You.  NEAT  Two interns were we.  I'm not the one you need."  
house on NO Ave. Call 255-5852 or 234-6661  Mlchalle  ...................,......................................... TOM SKUBIC  You swept me off my feet. Now, to my heart you hold the key.  -The firs I of many Dylan quotes  
TICKETS  Dear Sloth,  lor ·U.D.O.C.  I once wanted to make business deals, tons of money or even suits of armor.  Chris,  
Apt~ for rent lhis summer  You Are A Daddy.  Ugly DIPDOT on Campus...  But, hey, you Italian guy, now alii  Sorry I haven't called~ Let's communi­ 
Call Heidi 233-4176  FOR SALE NEIL DIAMOND TIXI call  Love Margaret  -two altos  wanl is Ia be a Farmer!  cate this way: an SYR date.  
277-8347  Love, Guess Who  
- 





The Observer 
Thursday, April 23, 1987-page 13 
Dawson hits slain as Cubs win, S-4 
Associated Press 
Jays 6, Indians 3 
CLEVELAND · Garth IorgST. LOUIS -Andre Dawson, lined a tiebreaking sacrifice fly 
hitting only .157, connected for off Steve Carlton in the ninth his third career grand slam to inning Wednesday night and cap a five-run seventh inning 
the Toronto Blue Jays went on Wednesday night and power to beat the Cleveland Indians 
the Chicago Cubs to a 5-4 tri­6-3. umph over the St. Louis Car­With the score 3-3, Ernie dinals. 
Whitt opened the ninth with a 
Dawson's home run, his third single off Carlton, 1-2, and of the year, came off St. Louis Kelly Gruber beat out a bunt relief ace Todd Worrell. single. Mike Sharperson
The Cards, with Jack Clark sacrificed the runners along ·~ . 
' 

hitting the first of his two solo and Tony Fernandez was inten­
\':.'' ,, home runs, built a 3-0 lead after tionally walked, loading the 
"'--oa ·~ ...

four innings. bases. But in the Cubs' seventh, Iorg's fly ball to right scored -~ Leon Durham and Gary Mat­Whitt, and Carlton was lifted thews, pinch-hitting for winner after walking Lloyd Moseby, Rick Sutcliffe, 3-1, both singled. reloading the bases. Rich Yett Bill Dawley, 0-2, relieved St. got George Bell t to hit a Louis starter Tim Conroy after grounder, but the ball went Bob Dernier walked to load the through third baseman Brook AP photo bases. Dave Winfield of the New York Yankees takes Winfield and the Yankees won their ninth in a
Jacoby's legs for an error that 
Dawley then walked Ryne allowed two runs to score. a seat after listening to some "chin music." row against the Tigers Wednesday, 4-1. Sandberg to force home Dur­Cleveland had loaded the 

ham before Worrell came on to career.
bases with two outs in the Yankees 4, Tigers 1relieve and gave up Dawson's eighth, but failed to score when The loss went to Danny Jack­Dodgers 5, Giants 3 
son, 0-3.
bases-loaded homer. 
Toronto reliever Mark Eich­
NEW YORK-The New York 

Bo Jackson, who came intohorn, 2-0, retired rookie Dave Yankees won their ninth con­the game with 10 strikeouts in SAN FRANCISCO -AlexGallagher on a grounder. Tom
Athletics 7, Angels 6 secutive game and equaled his previous 20 at-bats for the Trevino's pinch-hit double in
Henke pitched the ninth for his their best start in 38 years Wed­Royals, struck out twice in the ninth inning drove in twosecond save. 
nesday night, defeating the three at-bats. He doubled in the runs Wednesday night andANAHEIM, Calif. -Stan Detroit Tigers 4-1 on two-run fifth inning. 
gave the Los Angeles Dodgers Javier hit his first major­Mets 8, Pirates 7 homers by Rickey Henderson a 5-3 victory over the San Fran­league homer, a three-run shot, and Ron Kittle. 
cisco Giants. 
and Oakland held on for a 7-6 PITTSBURGH -Tim Teufel 
The triumph ended a 9-0 

victory over the California An­drove in New York's first three Expos 7, Phillies 3 Mike Krukow, the Giants' 20­
homestand for the Yankees. 

game winner of last season, got gels Wednesday in a game runs, and Mookie Wilson and 
Bob Shirley, 1-0, combined 

himself into trouble with a two­marred by a collision between Kevin McReynolds homered with two relievers on a five­MONTREAL -Tim Wallach's base throwing error to open the two Athletics outfielders. Wednesday night before the hitter. The left-bander, nor­leadoff homer and Mitch ninth. He fielded a grounder to Center fielder Dwayne Mets held on to edge the Pit­mally a long reliever, allowed Webster's bases-loaded triple his left and threw wildly to firstMurphy and right fielder Mike tsburgh Pirates 8-7. four hits in 51-3 innings, includ­highlighted a six-run sixth in­trying to get pinch-hitter LenDavis crashed into each other The Mets led 7-1 before Pit­ing Terry Harper's fourth­ning as the . Montreal Expos Matuszek, who went to secondchasing a fifth-inning drive by tsburgh made a run for the inning homer. beat the Philadlephia Phillies on the play. 
Gary Pettis, which went for an lead, capped by home runs by Tim Stoddard allowed one hit 7-3 Wednesday.inside-the-park home run. Both Sid Bream and Barry Bonds. in 2 2-3 innings and Dave Rig­Neal Heaton, 2-1, overcame players had to be helped off the hetti pitched the final inning for a shaky first inning to get the Padres 6, Reds 3 field, Davis on a stretcher and Ron Darling, 2-0, contributed his fifth save. win for Montreal, allowing four Murphy supported by team­The Yankees, 12-3 for the SAN DIEGO -Kevin Mitchell 
a run-scoring double and was hits, striking out five and 
mates. first time since 1949, won drove in a career-high four
credited with the victory after walking one in 7 2-3 innings
Davis suffered a concussion allowing four runs and seven despite getting just three hits before being relieved by Andy runs with a double and a homer when his head hit Murphy's hits over 6 2-3 innings. Gene off Frank Tanana, 2-1, and Eric McGaffigan. to lead the San Diego Padres 
right knee. Murphy's knee was King. Detroit lost its fourth to a 6-3 victory over the Cincin­
Walter, David Cone and Jesse The loser was Joe Cowley, 0­being X-rayed. Orosco followed Darling, with straight game. 3. nati Reds Wednesday night. 
The Athletics charged to a 7-0 Orosco earning his fifth save. Mitchell knocked in a pair of lead against starter Mike Witt, Red Sox 1, Royals 0 runs with a third-inning double 2-2, before the Angels mounted Pirates starter Bob Patter­Mariners 4, Twins 3 and hit a two-run homer in the a comeback against left­son, 1-2, walked a career-high BOSTON -Bob Stanley sixth inning. The third bander Curt Young, 2-1. six in 4 2-3 innings. pitched a four-hitter, Dwight baseman, who came to San
MINNEAPOLIS -Harold
Evans singled home the only Diego over the winter in the 
Reynolds' second single of the
run in the fourth inning and eight-player trade that sent 
game drove home Mike Kin­
Kansas City was shut out for Kevin McReynolds to the New 
gery with the winning run in
the fourth time in five games York Mets, came into the game
the eighth inning to give the
as the Boston Red Sox edged with just one homer and three 
Seattle Mariners a 4-3 victory
the Royals 1-0 Wednesday RBI. 
night. over the Minnesota Twins Wed­The victory was the second
No Deposit Ask about our nesday.
Stanley, 2-2, made his fourth in a row for the 4-12 Padres and 
student club Mark Langston, 2-2, pitched
Free Membership· 95t start of the season after spend­is the first time this season they membership! ing the previous six years as a a seven-hitter, walking two and have won consecutive games.
No Hassle 

per day 

reliever. He retired the first 13 striking out nine. George They used six innings of five-hit Kansas City batters and picked Frazier, 1-2, took the loss after pitching by starter Ed Whitson,
(2 day min) 

up the sixth shutout and 18th relieving Bert Blyleven in the 2-2, to send the Reds to theircomplete game of his 11-year seventh. 
fifth defeat in 15 games.
"Early Bird Special" Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&'Saint Mary's Theatre
(blockbuster and Premium Movies -N/A) 
production of . ------·---­
=============================================: 

-
Rent-A-Video Player 
•
... 

by William Shakespeare
$9.95 : 
Directed by Reg Bain
• 

for 3 days ••• 
Washington Hall
Plus-1st Movie 
Wednesday through Saturday
FREE
fWmiNf. 
April 29-May 2, at 8:10pm Sunday
512 W. Edison 
May 3, at 3:10 p.m.
Mishawaka 
Curl is 

256-0226 Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony
55011 Mayflower 
$4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun.
lllllllllllllllllll~4i:itll:lt-ll~~
South Bend 
Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays
288-8348 HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER • 
MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239-5957 

-
New Pizza 'IWin Packs from Pizza Hut® Delivery! 
Now you can enjoy your favorite pizza twice as much. Get two 14" Family Size Pizza Hut® Pizzas in our new 'IWin Packs, delivered hot and fast to your door for just $10.99. ASAVINGS OF UP TO $9.50! 
you know Pizza Hut® quality goes into every pizza we deliver. Pizza Hut® Delivery is going all out to bring our best ­
Hours: 
11:00 
AM· 12:00 Midnight Sunday· Thursday 

11:00 
AM· 2:00AM Friday· Saturday 


Our Pizza 'IWin Pack Offer! 
'IWo 14'~ Medium Size Pizza Hut® Pizzas For Just $10j 99'
..1 e 

e SAVE UP TO $9.50 
Now save on toppings, too. Additional toppings at $1.29 per topping covers BOTH pizzas. For two 14" Medium Size Pizzas you pay only: (With Coupon Below) 
Cheese ....................$10.99 Supreme (6 Toppings) . . . . . . . . 14.49 1 Topping . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . 12.28 Super Supreme (9 Toppings) . . . . 15.99 
1;.'' 
-:~I' 

For Fast Delivery Call: 
232-2499 
«> 1987 Pizza Hut, Inc. Limited Delivery Area
r---------------T---------------1 
1 I1  'IWo 14" Medium Size Pizzas! $1 jo 99 'IWo 14" Cheese Pizzas-$10.99..1 • Additional toppings at $1.29 SAVE UP TO ss.so! per topping covers BOTH pizzas!  1 I1  'IWo 16" Large Size Pizzas!$}3 99 'IWo 16" Cheese Pizzas-$13.99• Additional toppings at $1.89 SAVE UP TO SII.SO! per topping covers BOTH pizzas!  1 1I  
I Valid only at participating Pizza Hut® Uelivery units in1 South Bend, Mishawaka and Osceola. Not valid for dine in or carryout. One coupon per party per delivery. Not valid in combination with any other Pizza Hut® offer. $15. chargeI on all returned checks.  t '­ I1 I  Valid only at participating Pizza Hut® Uelivery units in South Bend, Mishawaka and Osceola. Not valid for dine in or carryout. One coupon per party per delivery. Not valid in combination with any other Pizza Hut® offer. $15. charge on all returned checks.  ~ ~ n•~  I1 I  
: c~~it";''232:2499..  4127187  ~ut®  :  c~t;''232:249s···127187  ~  :  
L  ~ 19117 Pizza Hut. Inc. Our dnvers carry no more than S20. I 2!K cash redemption value. Limited delivery area.--------------­ .l "' 19117 1'iZ1.a Hut. Inc Our driver< carry no more than S20. I '21M cash redemption value. l.imited delivery area.--------------­ _J  


The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 15 
OSU's Scarlet course leaves golfers bloody 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO Sports Writer 
The Scarlet course of Ohio State turned bloody red for the Irish golf team as they posted a disappointing finish at the Kepler Invitational over the Easter weekend. 
Head Coach Noel O'Sullivan, whose squad was looking forward to this grand tournament, did not expect the team to finish 20th out of 23 entrants. 
"We had an excellent atti­tude coming to the Kepler. However, the Scarlet was not at all kind to us." 
The club stroked a team total 957 for the three-round event, and were well off defending champion and host Ohio State's winning number of 894. 
Big Ten power Illinois was a distant second with a 913, and Kentucky took third with a 915. 
While acknowledging that 20th was disappointing, O'Sullivan added that the difference between his team and 14th-place Purdue was just seven strokes. 
Part of the reason the Irish struggled may be attributed to something we can all relate to, inexperience. Three of the five golfers found themselves in the Kepler for the first time, and the Scarlet course is re­garded as intimidating to newcomers. 
Pat Mohan, in particular, could not find his game and failed to post a sub 80 in any of the three rounds. Mohan shot a 252 (84-83-85) total for the 54-hole event. 
The other two first-timers, Doug Giorgio and John Con­nelly, fa ired a bit better. 
Can you 

afford to gamble with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,or MCAT? 
Probably not. Great grades alone may not be enough to impress the grad school of your choice. 
Scores play a part. And thafs how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course subjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So if yotive been out ofschool for a while and need a refresher, or even if yotire fresh out ofcollege, do what over 1 million students have done. Take Kaplan. Why take a chance with your career? 
Qw\r. 6! 
!KAPulrl'87 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL c:e.ITER lJO. 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 *CLASSES 1
j\91'b
* INDEPENDENT STIJDY • .r1\."{ ~ 9 1\R~··{\*NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS 
~"{\)0'~ ~ 
*TRANSFER DISCOUNTS! 
Connelly fired a 246 (78-80­88), while Giorgio contributed with a 241 (82-78­81). Senior captain Chris Bona was also unable to break 80 for any of the three rounds, thus accounting for a higher than normal244 (80­81-83) sum. 
Despite the rough going, there was a bright spot worth mentioning. Dick Con­nelly, who led the Irish with a 229 (83-74-72), shot the low number of the day on the final round among 120 gol­fers. He finished seven strokes behind Scott Chipokas of Michigan for the medalist honor. 
By virtue of his strong per­formance at the Kepler (76 average), Chipokas is eligi­ble for the nomination of Academic All-American status. 
"Richard's academic achievements as well as his golf play certainly is some­thing that can make a coach feel proud of his players, even when the team did not have a good outing," said O'Sullivan. 
The golf team will now have a week off to prepare in defense of its Spartan In­vitational championship which it captured last year at Michigan State. O'Sullivan said that junior Norm Campbell has been upgraded to the travelling squad that will go to this year's Spartan Invitational. 
"Norm has worked hard in practice and his showing at the Ball State Invitational a few weeks ago convinced me that he deserves this chance," said O'Sullivan. "He has all the deserving qualities to make the trip, and his monogram will also be deservedly earned." 
j)III___IIIJIIII"""'_______...._"' 
iI; ,., 
......
~· •• 

\. r"' 
'\ 
·_ ..t..._.' 
......... 
AP photo 

Mikko Makela ofthe New York Islanders scored the Philadelphia Flyers, 2-1. The best-of-seven a goal with :03 on the clock Wednesday to beat series is tied 1-1. 
Cubs irked at prison's false plates 
Associated Press 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. -A spokesman for the Indiana State Prison says the prison didn't profit from manufactur­ing facsimile license plates stamped "Cubs" -a practice the Chicago baseball team may file suit over, a newspaper re­ported Wednesday. 
Herbert Newkirk, superin­tendent of industries at the prison, told The Gary Post­Tribune that the practice of producing such plates was an opportunity for the prison to recoup its costs in making license plates. He said the 

.~ ~.,.,
of 20" Discount 
sale items 

N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
prison didn't profit from the sale of "Cubs" plates. 
The plates were made and sold at least in 1985, although there are conflicting accounts on when and how many were made, the Post-Tribune said. 
Cubs spokesman Scott Nickle said if the prison is making plates marked "Cubs," it is in violation of the team's copyright. Depending on the amount made and sold, said Nickle, the baseball team may file suit for damages. 
"That's our corporate trade name and that's a copyright in­fringement," Nickle told the Post-Tribune. 
Vaughn Overstreet, a spokesman for the state Cor­rection Department, said Wed­nesday, "If we're found to be responsible, we'll have to deal with that as it happens. It was inadvertent. It wasn't an at­tempt to make any money off the Cubs' name. 
''At the time these were made, (former commissioner) Gordon Faulkner was trying to encourage prison industries to be more creative and innovate, and to use up waste materials." 
the outside to break the pres­
sure they put on you as far as 
you retreat." 
"They killed us in the first few minutes last year," said ·Milone, "and we can't let that 
happen. 
"Middies are the key to this 

game. They have five middies 
just as good as O'Neill who are 
all 6-3. If we stop fast breaks 
and move the ball by passing 
instead of running, we can take 
away their quickness." 
"If can score three or four 

goals first," said Lanahan, "we 
will play with them. We must 
get in control. We have lost a 
lot of tough games, but We see 
ourselves beating these teams 
because we don't play tenta­
tively." 
The tallest test will be Wes­leyan, but the Irish cannot af­ford a let-down against Witten­berg. "The first game will be very physical and demand­ing," said McNicholas, "we will have to use more players Sunday." 
"That's going to be a tough assignment, especially consid­ering we will have played Wes­leyan less than 24 hours ear­lier," said O'Leary. "Wittenberg had gotten progressively better in each of their six seasons. They're a scrappy, aggressive team that could very well present us with problems." 
The NCAA tournament bid for the West will go to Air Force, Michigan State, Ohio State, or Notre Dame. MSU and OSU are ahead for the Irish. If Notre Dame can defeat those two teams, along with a win over Wesleyan, it could get the bid over Air Force, whose record is bolstered by shoddy competition. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
minutes. Nothing less will do." 
Ohio Wesleyan is reknown for an aggressive zone defense which shifts quickly and over­powers its opponent. Notre Dame will have to be patient passing the ball to avoid mis­takes to win, according to O'Leary. 
"We will have to create things and force mistakes on defense. Our seniors (Wally Stack, Jim Fallon, and Dick Milone) have done well as of late, while the middies (John McNicholas, Tom Lanahan, and Dave O'Neill) have con­tributed to offense more. Olmstead has been a pleasent suprise as a scoring threat along with McLachlan." 

"This is our most important game and we must play our best lacrosse," said McNic­holas. "On offense, we must dominate all ground balls, be mentally prepared to be in po­sition, and attack because we have nothing to lose. On defense, we need scoring from 
The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 16 

Men 
continued from page 20 

The Elite Eight not only came up with the big numbers, but the clutch plays 

21 as well, canning two free 
P1rty It Chlpa 
throws late in regulation and 

4-22 Bki 8:15 Whan We Repeat 
denying SOMF A W with back­
Mr. Coflay and the Non·OIIIry Craamara
to-hack soaring rejections to keep the count at 22-22. "I felt good," said Hicks, 

r--------14-24 BK9 5:00 "and the team put it together pretty well. We haven't put in Who'l Next
.•.
any special plays yet -we're 
Who Clraa? 
4-22 BK10 5:30 
just doing what feels natural." 
Who'l Next.•.
Hicks and 4 Slamma Jamma 
·..... 24 "-...,...~w..,~~o_c....rw...,...?_
now must face Party At Chips When We Repeat on Friday at 5 p.m. 
New Order rallied from an 11-7 halftime deficit and used some clutch shooting down the stretch to eliminate 4 Fags and a Zahmbie, 21-18. This contest featured two evenly-matched teams that were considered po­tential cinderellas to knock off one of the top seeds. 
Ralph Ferrara spurred the New Order comeback with stel­lar outside shooting, pouring in nine points. Ferrara scored the game's final three points, in­cluding a long jumper to end it. 

"Joe (Hills) has carried the Tequila White Lightning con­but failed to stop 'Da Brothers "We have started to come to­"Nobody really knows us, but team this far and I was just tinued their run for the finals of Manhood, who advanced gether and play real well to­I kind of like it that way," said fortunate to hit when the oppor­by spilling Mr. Coffey and the with a 21-11 win. Kim Adams gether in the last few games,"· Buscher, who tallied four tunity came up today," said Non-Dairy Creamers, 21-13. connected for five points while said Manhood's Joel Williams. points in the win. "We just take Ferrara. Brian Koehr led Tequila with teammate Tim Brown pulled "I think playing these tight it one game at a time, trying Hills and Tim Crawford each six points, while Matt Dingens, down 10 rebounds to lead Man­games will be to our advantage to be consistent. We were added four points in the New Lou Nanni and Sean Cullinan hood. in the upcoming games, be­happy to make it to the final 64, but now that we're on a roll,
Order victory, while Dan Mic­added five points each. 'Da Brothers finally had a cause we've shown we can han­
helini and Paul Gruber both Who's Next...Who Cares fairly easy path to victory in dle that situation." we'll take it as far as it will had five points for the losers. squeaked by Malandros, 24-22, Wednesday's game, after Corporate Raiders, sporting go." 
This sets up what should be to advance to a quarterfinal being pushed to the limit last what could be the best overall an tough quarterfinal matchup game with Tequila White week by Killer Bees in a 28-26 balance of any team remaining Friday's final matchup willbetween New Order and Lightning. That game will be win, and again on Tuesday in in the tournament, burned 5 be 'Da Brothers of Manhood
Leone's Stallions on Friday at played Friday at 5 p.m. their 21-19 win over Verkler's Really Cool Guys by the score against upset-minded Corpor­6p.m. 
Minahoonies had a fast start Construction. of 21-18. Each player on the ate Raiders at 6 p.m. Raiders had at least four points No games will be played in the victory, continuing to today. All four of Friday's rely on balanced scoring and quarterfinal games will be
NBA to add four expansion teams 
diligent defense. They haven't played on the Bookstore courts, been that showy, but Raider while Saturday's semi-finals
Associated Press Orlando or Miami. In the weeks the original recommendation, John "Booger" Buscher loves and Sunday's finals are slatedsince that recommendation, Bloch said, "If we were limited the team's relative anonymity. for Stepan Court 1. 
NEW YORK -The NBA, which Stern said was based on to three expansion teams, we refusing to choose between the committee's instructions didn't feel that two of them what it considered two equal from the Board of Governors could be in the same state." 
Clippers fire ChaneyFlorida applicants, accepted that three teams be invited, the Two expansion drafts, one in both Miami and Orlando into two Florida cities have ex­1988 for Charlotte and Miami Associated Press coach after Chaney's contract the league Wednesday along changed barbs. and one in 1989 for Minneapolis expires on June 30. with Charlotte, N.C., and Min­"Much has been written and Orlando, and college drafts LOS ANGELES -Don Chaney Chaney, who had a 52-133 neapolis. about the deficiences of those will be used to stock the four was fired Wednesday as coach record since replacing Jim 
Charlotte and Miami will be two cities, but in fact the prob­new teams. of the Los Angeles Clippers fol­Lynam on March 6, 1985, plans admitted for the 1988-89 season. lem for the board was choosing Each of the 23 existing teams lowing the club's 12-70 record to remain with the organization Minneapolis and Orlando will between them," Stern said. will protect eight players in this season, second worst in in a front office capacity. follow a year later, primarily "Because of the support dem­each expansion draft and each NBA history. because their new arenas are onstrated in Miami and Or­will lose one player. In the col­Clippers General Manager Considered among the candi­not as close to completion. lando, and the civic pride and lege drafts of 1988 and 1989, the Elgin Baylor made the an­dates for the Clippers' coach­
Each expansion franchise involvement by both govern­new teams will choose eighth nouncement, noting that ing job are John MacLeod, will pay an entry fee of $32.5 ment and fans, we couldn't do and ninth. Chaney would not be rehired as Rubie Brown and Gene Shue. million. anything but choose both." The location of three of the 
"It just wouldn't have been The commissioner said the four teams in the East compl­fair to choose between two governors' vote was unani­icated the divisional align­
University Counseling Center
equal Florida applicants," mous, although only an 18-5 ments, so the governors 
is pleased to Sponsor
Commissioner David Stern majority was required. adopted a rotating system that said after the announcement, ''The dilemma between has little regard for geographic which followed a four-hour Miami and Orlando simply was location. 
meeting. "We decided that the that they are in the same only proper thing to do was state," said Phoenix Suns The Charlotte team is tenta­take both." owner Richard Bloch, chair­tively known as the Spirit, 
On April2, the NBA's Expan­man of the Expansion Commit­while the other teams will be sion Committee recommended tee. the Minnesota Timberwolves, that Minneapolis and Charlotte Explaining why only Char­the Orlando Magic and the be accepted along with either lotte and Minneapolis were in Miami Heat. 

TIME: PLACE 
DATE: 

SAB is now accepting applications for the position of: 
1988 Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman 
Applications are available in the sec­retary's office on the 2nd floor of Lafortune and must be returned by Tuesday, April 28. 

The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987-page 17 

FRIDAY APRIL 24 9:00 p.m. 
AN TOSTAL DANCE 
at STEPAN 
The Sweet Sixteen 
Hooaler Lawyer??? 

4-23 AN013 4:00 t------., ..-------1 ~23 AN017 4:00 We'll Do Anything 
Who Neecla High for a Quarter 
HHia Anyway? 

4-24 ST1 5:00 1-------., .--------1 4-24 ST1 8:00 Four Room• Make a Wall 
THm No.5 
4-23 ANG14 4:00 ...,_________. 

'--------1 4>23 ANG13 5:00 Double Decker Orao Cookie 
5 Glrta In Search The Oyatar Craw of Large Condomlnluma 
.--------1 
4>23 AN014 5:00 Ieaman, Sliver, Maverick, Oooaa 
4-23 ANG15 4:00 L-----. 

Kulka, Fran, Ollie How About a Game of Hoopa? 
and 2 Other Playwa 
-------f 
4>25 ST1 3:00 

4<24 ST2 5:00 t-------' l--------1 4-24 ST2 8:00 
The HHia 
Quixotic Quint 

4-23 ANG111 4:00 1-------' L-------1 4113 ANG15 5:00 
Ertn Go BraughStill Having Fun 


Source: Bookstore Basketball XVI Comlttee Observer Graphic I Laura Stanton and Pete Gagen 
Nordiques, Islanders 
•

score wins 
Associated Press 
Wednesday night, in Montreal, Michel Goulet and Basil McRae scored 17 seconds apart early in the third period to end a scoreless duel as the Quebec Nordiques held off a Montreal rally to beat the Canadiens 2-1. That gives Quebec a 2-0 lead in that NHL playoff series. 
Wednesday night's game was in marked contrast to the opener of the best-of -seven Adams Division final, which produced 12 goals. This one belonged to the goaltenders mario Gosselin of Quebec, and especially Brian Hayward of the Canadiens, who was selec­ted to start over Patrick Roy. 
In Philadelphia, Mikko Makela's power-play goal from the right face-off circle with three seconds left gave the New York Islanders a 2-1 victory over the Flyers and a 1-1 tie in the series. 
Women 
continued from page 20 
Hoosier Lawyer???, made up of a group of law students, beat We Just Want to Score Once 21-5 yesterday. Tull sees Lawyer??? as a tough team to beat. 
"They are an outstanding team," Tull said. "They play really well together." 
A wrap-up of second round action from late last week shows We Weren't Cheer­leaders in High School tossing Senioritis out of the tourna­ment, 7-1. Four Rooms Make a 
Wall  blasted  the  Ghetto  
Blasters,  21-6,  while  Double  
Decker  Oreo Cookie  proved  

Katie and Four Cute Girls Who Can't Play Basketball right, winning 21-2. Hickey: Not Just a Blemish Anymore beat We are Pink Therefore We are Spam, 21-9, and Physics is Phinally Phun lost to The Oyster Crew, 15-5. 
More Bad Than Good beat Sher Shone Machen last week, and The Vicki Mouse Club nar­rowly beat Shaking the Groove Thing, 9-8. Iceman, Slider, Maverick, Goose, How About a Game of Hoops? flew by Team 65, 21-3, and the Bedrock Bombers bombed (of course) the Five Mistresses of Captain Banbel, 21-8. Team 73 forfeited to The Heels, and Book 'em Danno beat Four Ex­Cheerleaders and a Nerd. Still Having Fun still did, kicking We Can't Shoot But We Sure Can Score out of competition, 15-5. 
We Just Want to Score beat The Best Ball Handlers This Side of 31, and finally, Under­paid SMU Sorority Girls beat It's a Joke, 15-13 to join the rest of the final 32 teams. 
To earn a spot among the Sweet Sixteen, We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School defeated Larry Bird and What's in Her Nest, 15-0 yester­day on the Stepan Courts. Four Rooms Make a Wall won by for­feit, and the Oyster Crew beat More Bad Than Good 15-3. Iceman and friends defeated the Bedrock Bombers, 21-9. The Heels walked all over Book 'em Danno, 15-2, and Still Having Fun stopped the Under­paid SMU Sorority Girls, 15-3. 
Who Needs High Heels, Anyway clobbered Vanity 5, 21­5, while Team 5 beat the Vicki Mouse Club in a close contest, 15-12. 
Women's Bookstore action continues tomorrow and through the weekend, with the 
championship game to be played Sunday. 
Sponsored by 


~--------~--__,.....----------·--~­
........ , ...... ·····-············· .. ····· ................... ~ 
The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1987 -page 18 
Warth posts career best in nteet 
The Observernavid Fischer 
Javelin thrower Brian Driscoll placed second at the Indiana In­tercollegiate Championships over the weekend. Driscoll and John Eusterman fmished second and third in the meet. 

"~owellS ~Oil aQQ occa~iong.H 
Comein and Browse / 327 Lincolnway .232'-3354 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY SPRING MEETING 
Mandatory for All Juniors 
Information and Packecs necessary.for applyinn·-• to Law School will be distributed 
Thursday, April 23 7:00p.m. Engineering Aud. 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
DOME 1987 DISTRIBUTION 
Outside Stepan Center (inside if rain) 12:30-4:30 pm please bring ID 
TODAY-Sophomores, Juniors, & Seniors Tomorrow-Freshmen 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Members of the Irish track squad may be doing their best ever, but thanks to the opposi­tion, the results aren't showing up in the team scores. 
Four Irish runners recorded personal bests over the weekend at the Indiana Inter­collegiate championships, but none of them placed first in their events. 
"The meet was just in­credible," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "David Warth and Tom Mick, for example, both broke the meet records in the half (800-meter run) and the ham­mer throw, but they finished fifth and fourth (respectively)." 
Warth recorded a time of 
1:50.2 in the 800, finishing be­hind four runners from In­diana, and Mick recorded a toss.of 50.18 meters, which was just one meter short of the win­ning toss. 
Mike O'Connor finished'sixth in the 1500-meter run with a 
NAME THE 
Clue Set #2 
time of 3:49.6. This time is equivalent to a mile clocking of 4:06, which would be the best for O'Connor. 
Yan Searcy chopped a second off his best time in the 400-meter run, placing sixth with a time of 48.5. 
These placings showed in the team scoring column, as In­diana won the meet with 161 points, followed by Purdue with 141, Indiana State with 102.5 and the Irish with 85. And Ball State, which according to Piane ran its best meet in eight years, finished right behind Notre Dame with 70 points. 
The Irish did manage to win two events. Ron Markezich took the 10,000-meter run with a time of 31:04.8, and the 1600­meter relay team of Robert Nobles, David Warth, Yan Searcy and Tim Brown won with a time of 3:11.0. 
Nobles finished behind Warth in the 800 with a time of 1:51.1, and Brown added third­place finishes in both the 100 and 200-meter dashes. Brown 
was edged by 
Here is the second set of clues to match with The Hot Shot Legends of Rock & Roll Poster inserted into this newspaper two weeks ago. (If you missed the poster, a limited supply is available at the newspaper office.) The first set of clues ran last week. 
Here's What To Do: This sketch represents the right half of the poster with outlines of the faces. Each face outline is numbered 22 through 38. Match each outline to the poster, using the clues listed below to determine the names of the final17 Rock Artists featured and remember to answer the 39th question "What is the drink nc.me on the back of the HOT SHOT Schnapps bottle?" 
Write legibly on Official Entry Form or on an 81/2" x 11" piece of lined paper your name, school, school address, home address, age, phone number, jacket size (S, M, L, X-L), jacket color (black or white), and your 39 answers, numbered in correct order, and mail to: 
Hot Shot Rock Legends Sweepstakes 
P.O. Box 876 

Church Hill, MD 21690 
Only one entry per envelope. No mechanically repro­duced entries will be accepted. Please abide by all rules and regulations listed on the backside of the poster. And remember, you must be of legal drinking age in your state of residence and state where you attend school at time of entry. 
~"" {Set #2) 
22. 
HIS FIRST BAND WAS THE ALLMAN JOYS 

23. 
HIS ACT WAS A REAL EXPERIENCE 


24. 
HE HAD A FOUR-LETIER HIT CALLED "W.O.L.D." 

25. 
HE WAS THE HIGH CARD ABOUT WHOM PAUL SIMON SANG ABOUT 

26. 
HER BROTHER IS A "CARPENTER" 

27. 
HIS BAND WAS KNOWN FOR SMASHING THEIR INSTRUMENTS 

28. 
HER FREQUENT PARTNER WAS 1*8 

29. 
BETIE MIDLER SHE AIN'T 

30. 
LATIN ROCKER WHO HIT BIG WITH "LA SAMBA" 

31. 
HE TRIED TO PUT "TIME IN A BOTILE" 

32. 
"LOVIN' YOU" WAS HER BIGGEST HIT 

33. 
HE AND HIS COMETS ARE DUE FOR A COMEBACK IN 75 YEARS 

34. 
IF YOU CAN'T GUESS HIM, YOU'RE NOT CUT OUT FOR THIS KIND OF WORK 

35. 
HIS "BROTHER" WAS DAN 

36. 
HE ASKED "WHY DO FOOLS FALL IN LOVE" 

37. 
HE LIKED LIZARDS AND SNAKES AND WILLIAM BLAKE 

38. 
HIS SON JULIAN FOLLOWS IN HIS FOOTSTEPS 



Purdue's Rod 
Woodson and Gerald Bell in both races. 
Brian Driscoll and John Eus­terman finished two-three for Notre Dame in the javelin.Driscoll was edged by John Hanger of Rose-Hulman for first by just eight cen­timeters. 
Another Irish back-to-back finish occured in the 3000-meter steeplechase, as Rick Mulvey and Tom O'Rourke finished fourth and fifth, respectively. 
Dan Garrett ran a strong race in the 5000-meter run, placing third with a time of 14:37.5, and Glen Watson finished fourth in the 110-meter hurdles with a time of 14.4. 
The Irish left Wednesday evening for Des Moines, Iowa for the prestigious Drake Relays. The races will take place Friday and Saturday. 
Irish sprinter Tim Brown has remained on campus to play in the Blue-Gold game on Satur­day. 
LEGENDS OF ROCI< &. ROLL AND WIN! 


Hot Shot'" Schnapps, 42 Proof, Produced by The Hot Shot Distillery, Owensboro, KY ®1987. 

'JI['4(Jt~~~------------------------------------------------------•T•h•u•rs.d.ay•'•A•pr•il•2•3••1.98•7·--p.ag•e--19 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

Campus 
2:30p.m.: Baseball ND vs. Butler Uni­versity 0-9 inn.) Jake Kline Field 
4:00 p.m.: Graduate Violin Recital by Judy Meister, Annenberg Auditorium 
4:30 
p.m.: Tri-Military Parade, ACC Parking lot 

4:30 
p.m.: Anthropology Club and An­thropology Department lecture "Past Dinner Menus Human Adaptation: Opportunities for Ar­chaeological Field Work," by Dr. Jane Buikstra, University of Chicago, 220 O'Shaughnessy 


4:30p.m.: Carnegie Council on Ethics Notre Dame and International Affairs and Helen Kel­logg Institute Lecture ''After Political 
Roast Top Round of Beef 
Democratization, What?" by Prof. 
Sweet & Sour Pork 
Guillermo O'Donnell, ND, Room 100, CCE 
Fettucini Alfredo 
4:30 p.m.: College of Science Lecture 
Pepperoni Cheese Grinder 
Series "Hermitian-Einstein metrics on stable bundles and Kahler-Einstein metrics," by Prof. Y. T. Siu., 2nd floor, Saint Mary's CCMB 
8:00 p.m.: Theology Department Lec­An Tostal Picnic ture "Introduction to Spirituality of the Eastern Churches," by Rev. Boniface Luykx, Abbot, Holy Transfiguration Monastery, Redwood Valley, California, Library Auditorium 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Prevalent 5 Long time 9 Peruvian 
13 Fragrance 14 Practical old style 15 Leonine utterance 16 Last chance phrase 
18 Gulp 

19 Ready 
20 Beige 
22 Rio de­
23 Apple or wheel 
25 Pubs 

27 Overcomes 
32 Lanky 
33 Almost 
34 Yearn 
36 Huge 

39 Bush quail 
40 Tolerated 
41 Caesar's road 
42 Antiaircraft fire 
43 N. Mex art .,, 987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 4/23/87All Rights Reserved
colony 44 Hippodrome 45 Proximate 4 Cupid 47 Social 5 Consumed 49 Roman emperor 6 -in (concede) 52 Cleopatra's 7 Opt 


-

Thursday, April 23, 1987-page 20
SRorts 
Bookstore tourneys head towards stretch 
Party at Chips, Leone's advance 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 

The Sweet 16 looked more like the Soggy 16 on Wednesday, as eight teams survived scrappy foes and constant rains to reach Friday's quarterfinals.
As the field narrows, the plot thickens in anticipation of the crowning of the 1987 Bookstore Basketball champion.Last year's finalists, Party at ChipsWhen We Repeat (then Lee's BBQ Roundhouse) and Leone's Stallions,
• 
both had little trouble advancing to the next round. 
Party at Chips grounded the Flying Dingleberries, 21-12, behind a 21-of-38 team shooting performance. Point guard Bubba Cunningham and Steve Beuerlein led the defending champions with five points each. Each Party at Chips player chipped in three or more points in a characteristic team effort. 
Leone's Stallions 21-8 win was the largest margin of victory of the day. Bill Sullivan poured in nine points for the victors, while teammate Mike O'Grady pulled down 11 rebounds. 
The other six remaining teams will all have a shot at knocking off the defending champion and runner-up en route to Sunday's final. Friday's games will feature some excellent matchups and exciting play, given the quality of the final eight teams. 
Scott Hicks asserted himself with 11 points and 16 rebounds to lead 4 Slamma Jamma over SOMFAW, 24-22. Teammate Chris Perozek chipped in five points and seven rebounds. Hicks 
see MEN, page 16 


Double Decker makes the 16 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Writer 
As Women's Bookstore Basketball action continues, Double Decker Oreo Cookie looks to have a great chance of repeating as champions. Breezing through the tournament by giving uponly two points per game, Cookie, led by Lavetta Willis, made it to the Sweet Sixteen yesterday by easily defeating Hickey: Not Just a Blemish Anymore, 
21-2~ 
We're working really hard," said a Cookie spokeswoman. "We want to keep playing well and get back to the championship game." 
Another strong performance was turned in yesterday by We'll Do Anyth­ing for a Quarter, who defeated We Should Have Won, 21-14, in a vicious catfight on Stepan 3. The outside shoot­ing of Anne Reilly gave We Should Have Won a chance, but the inside play of We'll Do Anything was too much. With the score 11-6 at the half, spectators began suggesting war tactics and lethal weapons to the competitors, who were definitely displaying the killer instinct. 
On the Angela Courts at Saint Mary's, Still Having Fun soundly defeated the Underpaid SMU Sorority Girls, 15-3, thanks in part to the play of MaryBorkowski. 
She's a great all-around player and really a good sport," said Bookstore Commissioner Barbara Tull. "She makes wicked passes, but always plays with a smile on her face." 
see WOMEN, page 17 


Irish baseball tea01 struggling as season co01es to close 
By KEVIN McCORMACK Sports Writer 
Currently holding a "disap­pointing" 12-20 record two­thirds into the 1987 season, the Notre Dame baseball team might have received a blessing in disguise with yesterday's rainout at Jake Kline Field that had Western Michigan sched­uled for an afternoon doubleheader. The Irish just might need the rest in prepa­ration for a six-game swing in the next six days. 
Coming off three consecutive victories, two over St. Joseph's and a 10-1 thrashing at the dis­pense of the Bethel Pilots, all at Jake Kline, the Irish now have something to build upon what so far has been a trying season. 

"Like I've said before, if you would have told me that we would be 12-20 at this point in the season, I would say that you were crazy, particularly after we won six of our first ten games in the Texas trip," said Head Coach Larry Gallo. 
"What has made the season so difficult is that we have beaten ourselves with mistakes all year long. Consistency is the ingredient needed to win and it hasn't been there for us." 
Recently, Gallo has noticed substantial improvement in the hitting department, an area which has plagued the Irish all season. 
"Our hitting has become more timely and we've been getting help from those players that haven't been as consistent all year long," said Gallo. 
Against Bethel, the Irish racked up an impressive six­

"'""" 
The Observer,Robert Jones 
The lacrosse team is hoping for an NCAA tourn­
will face a tough Ohio Wesleyan squad on Sat­
ament bid after this weekend's action. The team urday. 
teen hits as Dan Peltier, Mike Moshier, Scott Rogers, Tim Hutson, and Chris Flynn each came up with two. 
The Western Michigan game has been rescheduled for Mon­day, but the twin bill has been sctratched in favor of just one contest. It might be helpful for the Irish hurlers, who will have a long haul with games sched­uled against Butler, St. Louis (three), and Purdue, along with Western Michigan coming up within the next couple of days. 
"We've still got about four­teen or fifteen games left, so the season is still long from over, and we have a lot to gain for next season, considering we're only losing three players of this year's ball club," said Gallo. 
"The competition has been tough, which makes things frustrating for us. I don't have any excuses, though. The fact stares you right in the face. We're just going to have to play good enough to win for the rest of the season. We just haven't done that this year." 

Tourney bid at stake for lacrosse tea01 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will reach an important crossroads this weekend as it faces Ohio Wesleyan at 12:30 
p.m. Saturday and Wittenburg on Sunday at Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame coach Rich O'Leary and his players know that a successful weekend could lead to an NCAA bid. 
"This is a crucial point in the season," said O'Leary. "We have never beaten Wesleyan (ranked second in Division III and first overall in the Mid­west) and a win could do a lot for lacrosse at Notre Dame. 
"We could use this contest as a springboard to our final three conference games." 
The Irish, now at 4-3, revealed their potential in last weekend's loss to Denison as they fell behind 10-1 in the second period but put together an impressive 7-1 rally to close to 11-8 at one point. John McLachlan (team leader in points with 31) and John Olmstead (27 points) keyed the comeback with two goals each. 
"It was a combination of their letdown and our aggres­siveness that made the rally," said O'Leary. "We learned a lot there, but you could an­ticipate their final three goals after we had outplayed them so intensely for as long as we did. 
"I think Ohio Wesleyan is far and away the best team in the Midwest. Not only do they win, but they win convincingly. They've already beaten Hobart, who is the perennial Division III national champ, so they obviously have great tal­ent. 
"If we're going to have any chance to win, we've got to play near perfect lacrosse for 60 
see IRISH, page 15 · 

-





