
SPECIAL OLYMPICS ISSUE ISSOG Issue Sunday, August 2, 1987 
The Official Publication of the International Summer Special Olympics Games 
Gymnasts perform with determination 
By CATHY STACY 
Observer Staff 
To win the gold takes poise and de­termination, but coaches, gymnasts and their families agree that nothing could be more exciting than watching these dreams come true. Many delega­tions, however, began practicing as a team only days before the Games. 
Three days to perfect one's routine with a new coach may not seem like a lot, as Ohio coach Mary May admits, but the enthusiam of the athletes has given new meaning to dedication. "The gym we practiced in had no air condi­tioning, and we had trouble getting them out just to eat or drink." 
The excitement of the Games abounds in this team, whose nine ath­letes have been working on their indi­vidual programs throughout the past year. Competing at the state level is usually required before attending the International Games. 
"During my spare time I go to the rec center and keep in training by weight lifting and running,"said Ohio team member Steven Segal who will compete on both the high bar and the parallel bars. "I hope to get a medal," said the 29-year-old gymnast who proudly states that his teammates are "really great." 
Each of the gymnasts must partici­pate in the compulsories of at least two events, said head coach Bob Razzante. This competetion consists of 10 or 12 required moves whereas the athletes who choose to participate in the option­als are responsible for creating their own routines. 
Team members Bridget Brown and Karen Martsolf will both be competing in the floor exercises. Karen was trained by her mother and at 36 is anx­ious to continue her gymnastics. 
To watch team member Horace Nor­ris practice his difficult moves on the high bar gives one an idea of what champions are made. "I'd be happy to get a medal," he said modestly, also willing to talk about his interests in bas­ketball and football. 
Cheers and applause welcomed the hundreds of gymnasts that began the preliminary events in the Parade of Athletes. After each delegation was an-
see GYM, page 10 
' 
I i 
•I ' 
' i 
~ 
1 
. '  t  
.~ "'"  f  
t  J  

• 
. 
Volunteers, eagerly awaiting tonight's begin at 5 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium. Opening Ceremonies, bear the flags of Featured in the extravaganza are participating nations. The Ceremonies singer Whitney Houston, "Miami Vice" 

Trials open basketball competition 

By TIM HEALY Observer Staff 
Basketball competition got underway yesterday as teams from all over the United States and the world competed in trial games at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Results from the six minute trial 
games will be used to seed each of the 
teams in divisions according to ability. 
The 37 mens teams and 15 womens 
teams will be split into divisions 
varying from 3-8 teams. 26 of the mens 
teams are from the U.S. while the other 
11 come from as far as Ireland, 
Panama, and Yugoslavia. All 15 of the 
womens teams are from the U.S .. There 
are also several co-ed teams that com­
pete in the mens's division. 
International competion commenced 
yesterday with Jordan taking it out of bounds against Greece. The team from Greece looked very strong against Jor­dan and even stronger against New York later in the day. Quick guard Spyros Moutsoulas(no.l5) made some nice steals and powered Greece's fast break as they easily defeated New York 10-2. 
The closest game yesterday occured when Washington D.C. and Ohio clashed. Both are power teams with high scoring offenses. Although D.C. prevailed 9-8, the game could have gone the other way. Shelby Clark had two sweet dishes to Dan Thomas who easily banked them in to bring Ohio within one point. 
D.C. couldn't convert on its next possesion and gave Ohio the go-ahead chance. As the seconds ticked away the ball couldn't find the bottom of the net, and D.C. escaped. Ohio forward Mike Fairbanks wasn't worried, though, as he cooly stated, "It wasn't the real thing anyway, besides we won earlier. 
" 
D.C.'s coach Ron Washington thinks his all-star team has a good chance of winning their division. "We've played together for two years in a row and we've also been the D.C. champs the past two years," he said. "Our kids are really competitive, many of the ath­letes are multi-talented." 
Bradley Pollard and George Young, who is a dunk threat that cans regularly from way downtown, set the world's record for the 400 meter relay at 46 sconds in the '75 ISSOG. Coach Wash­ington also said, "All of my players have graduated from the D.C. Associ­ation for Retarded Citizens. They have 
see TRIALS, page 10 


Spirits soar despite stormy weather 
Yesterday's early morning showers may have dampened the ground but the stormy skies could not dampen the spirit of the 1987 International Sum­mer Special Olympics Games as the action and competitions got under­way. 
Although the opening ceremonies do n~t take place until tonight, there was plenty of athletic activity and enter­tainment to be had by everyone yes­terday. 
After long hours of training and an­ticipation, athletes finally got a taste of competition as time trials were held in aquatics, athletics, basketball, bowling, gymnastics, soccer, softball, and volleyball. And competition began in the demonstration sports as well. 

After waiting patiently in staging areas, athletes ran their heats and got their times. When they had some free time, they wandered over to Olympic Town for a little entertainment, a little fun, a little time away. 
Parents got their chance to escape the heat at the Family Center in the Joyce ACC. 
Volunteers were very busy, organiz­ing, hugging, and timing. Volunteer organizers passed out Special Olym­pics "bibs" to pre-registered volun­teers, but they were also happy to put anyone to work who wandered up to the table and said they wanted to help. 

Later the athletes would end up at the dining halls. For the U.S. athletes, it may have been one of their first brushes with college dining hall food. For the foreign athletes, it might have been a difficult diet to adjust to. And it might have been their first experi­ence with American food -meatloaf and tossed salad. 
Hundreds of per.formers were get­ting ready for the opening ceremonies. The parade of athletes was rehearsed. Technicians tested the lights and the sound systems. And the stars of the show were rumored to be drifting into town. 
After the sun set on the first day of competition, athletes, coaches and family crowded the dance floor at the International Dance at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
And today, opening ceremonies of­ficially inaugurate the international celebration. 


Sunday, August 2 
_$>> ..... 
Aquatic 7:30a.m. -B:30 a.m. Head Coaches Meeting 
9:00a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
Trials: 25m Breaststroke 
25m Freestyle 
lOOm Individual Medley 

athleltcs nrack ~ heidi 
Athletics B:OO a.m. -B:45 a.m. Athletics Coaches Meeting (astro-turf) Trials: 9:00 a.m. -10:00 a.m. 3000m Run 9:00a.m.-10:30 a.m. Shot Put (Pentathlon) ( 4 pits) 
10:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. 
Ball Throw (Developmental) (astro-tqrf) 
BOOm Run 
10:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
High Jump (Pentathlon) (4 pits) 11:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
4 x 400m Relay 12:00 p.m.-1:00 p.m. BOOm Walk 1:00 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 23m Wheelchair Obstacle Course 
,~ 
baske1ball 
Basketball B:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Finals: Individual Skills -ACC Auxiallry Gym 
1:30 p.m. 
Coaches Meeting -ACC Auxiliary Gym 
B:30 a.m. -10:00 p.m. 
Basketball Information Center -ACC Gate 1 

hOwling 
Bowling 
9:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Trials 

gymnastiCs 
Gymnastics 

B:30 a.m.-Gymnasium opens up for warm-ups 9:50a.m. -Parade of athletes 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m Trials -Level II 
Compulsories Floor Exercises Vault Balance Beam Uneven Bars 
Optional Floor Exercises 

11:00 a.m.-Gymnasium opens up for warm-ups (overlaps warm-ups of earlier session) 
12:20 p.m. -Parade of athletes 12:30 p.m. -3:00p.m 
Trials -Level III 

Compulsories Floor Exercises Vault Balance Beam Uneven Bars Parallel Bars High Bars Rhythmic Pommel Horse 

soccer 

Soccer 8:30a.m.-3:00p.m Round Robin Pool Play 

softball 

Softball Finals 9:00a.m.-2:00p.m Individual Skills Competition 

volleyball 

Volleyball 9:00a.m.-2:00p.m 
Al vs. A2 
Bl vs. B2 
Cl vs. C2 
A3 vs. A4 
Dl vs. D2 
El vs. E2 
Fl vs. F2 
D3 vs. D4 
Gl vs. G2 
Hl vs. H2 
11 vs. 12 
Jl vs. J2 

cycling 

Cycling 9:00a.m.-11:00 a.m. Time Trials 15 kim 1:00 p.m.-2:00p.m. Time Trials 1 kim 

equestrian events 
Equestrian 9:00a.m.-1:00 p.m. Equitation 

Horsemanship 10:00 a.m. -2:00p.m. Trai:V Obstacle 

-7'--: 
roller skating 
Rollerskating 9:00a.m.-12:00 p.m. Trials Artistic Practice 
11:15 a.m. Freestyle Preliminarie~ 
12:00 p.m. Session Over 

table tennis 
Table Tennis 9:00a.m. -12:00 p.m. Practice Gym # 2 ACC 

tennis 
Tennis 9:00a.m.-11:30 a.m. Trials -Singles 1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. Trials -Doubles 
)( 
weightlifting 
Weightlifting 
10:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. Bench Press Competition 1:00 p.m.-2:30p.m. 
Bench Press Competition 
Clinics Canoeing (open) 
Saint Mary's Lake 9:00a.m. -11:00 a.m. 1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. 
Basketball (open) 10:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. ACC Arena 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 

Basic Skills (athletes 
and coaches)-Michael 
Jordan,Patrick Ewing Athletics (open) 
11:00 a.m. -11:45 a.m. -RunLong Jump 1:00 p.m. -1:30 p.m. -4 x 100 relay exchange 
Cartier Field Aquatics (open) 12:00 p.m.-1:00 p.m. Rolf's Aquatic Center Volleyball (coaches) 2:00p.m.-2:45p.m. Softball ( coachesla thletes) 2:00p.m. -2:30p.m. Circular Zoneball 
10:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. 
Instructional Clinic (open) Saint Mary's Field 
11:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
QuestioniAnswer period (open) 
12:00 p.m. -1:00 p.m. Training Clinic (athletes) 
1:00 p.m.-2:00p.m. Exhibition game (Athletes) 2:00p.m.-4:00p.m. Question,'Answer Period 
(athletes, family and 
friends) 
4:00-5:00p.m. 
Exhibition games (athletes) 
6:00 p.m. -dark 
Exhibition game (volunteers) 

Today's Issue was produced by the following: 
Paul Babka Kevin Becker Marilyn Benchik Jim Carroll Mindy Chapleau Fred Dobie Chris Donnelly Pete Gagen Tim Healy Susan Mullen Judy Molnar Liz Panzica Suzanne Poch Sean Readon Jim Riley Andrea Rogers Matt Sitzer Cathy Stacy Patti Tripathi Bob Tyler Joann Whitfield Joan Wrappe Kim Yuratovac 

Hot, humid and Today's partly sunny Sun­weather: day with a 40 par­
cant chance ot 


mainly afternoon 
thunderatorma. 
High In the lo-r 90s. Mostly clear Sunday night ax­capt for a 30 par­cant chance of evening thun­derstorms. Low around 70. Contin­ued hot, humid and mostly sunny Mon­day. High near 90. 




The 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games 
are about to begin at the University of Notre Dame and
The 
Saint Mary's College in South Bend, Indiana. 
Thanks to the news media, the whole world will hear about the largest event ever held for mentally retarded athletes -yet few people outside Special Olympics know about the 1987 International Games' largest sponsor. 

Largest 
The largest contributor of funds and volunteers to the 1987 International Games 
Most people are surprised to learn that it isn't a 
multi-billion-dollar corporation. Instead, it's a volunteer 
service club called Civitan -58,000 men, women and teenagers who have made financial and volunteer commitments to the 1987 International Games way 
out of proportion to their numbers. 
Working in their hometowns, Civitans have raised $1,600,000 for the 1987 International Games. In addition, 
Sponsor of 

International 
over 1,000 Civitans will travel to South Bend at their own expense, to work side by side with local volunteers. 
Now that you've heard of us, we'd like to hear from you
Special Olympics Civitan International has 1,800 clubs in communities throughout North America, Europe, and Asia. As a volunteer service club, we support Special Olympics and other charitable causes -while providing the opportunity for each Civitan member to develop his or her leadership potential. 
If you would like to learn more about what we do, how to join a Civitan club, or how to start one in youre a J •;o:munity, please call us, toll-free at 1-800-CNITAN. 

You Never 
H d 0 f 
The Observer 
Parishoners welcome Yugoslavian delegation 
By KIM YURATOVAC eastern provinces of Serbia and Observer Staff 
Macedonia reflect more of an eastern 
flavor. 
"Dobro Nam Do~li," was the wel­Matkovic compared the Interna­come for the Special Olympians of tional Special Olympics Games to the Yugoslavia during a reception Satur­University Games which were held in day at Pasquerilla East. his native Zagreb this summer. "They 
About 20 parishoners from Saints did much reconstruction to make our 
Peter & Paul Serbian Orthodox Church city more beautiful. The events were greeted the athletes with native similar to these but the athletes were hospitality, warmth and desserts. students from all over the world." "They're our people," parishoner Eve Live-in Host Vladimir Razenj is ana­Balaban said. "It's an absolute thrill to tive of Rijeka, located on the Adriatic 
welcome them here." coast. Razenj is a Notre Dame 
Many of the parishoners are im­graduate student studying mathema­migrants from Yugoslavia who con­tics. "This reception is wonderful. Of tinue to uphold the culture of their na­course these immigrants are tive people. They greeted the athletes Americans but they know where their with gifts, and kisses and handshakes roots are, and that is important." of friendship. "Thank you from our The team arrived in South Bend Sat­hearts," coach Bojan Matkovic told urday morning about 3 a.m., after three them. Matkovic is a physical eduction connecting flights that took them over professor at the University of Zagreb. thirty hours. They slept only four hours This is his first trip to America. He is before they began Saturday's practice. impressed with the beauty of the "The athletes are all really tired," Mat­country, but he is really looking for­kovic added. "We want to go out and ward to meeting more of the people and see the campus, but first we all need 
seeing how the people really live. some sleep." Matkovic is especially 
"Everything I have seen is very looking forward to seeing the sculp­beautiful, just as I had expected. But tures of fellow Croatian, artist Ivan I'd like to see how the people live, what Mestrovic, who's work can be seen all they do and what they think of us." over the campus. 
When Matkovic told some other ath­The team consists of eight basketball letes that he was from Yugoslavia, they players, two track and field athletes asked, "Really?". and two swimmers. This is the first of­ficial International Summer Special Yugoslavia is located at the cross­Olympics in which Yugoslavia has com­roads of Europe. It is often said that peted. Yugoslavian athletes have East meets West in the city of Sarajevo participated unofficially in other Spe­where Eastern-type open air markets cial Olympics Games but the team has lie within full view of western skylines. just recently been sanctioned by Spe­
The country has one of the most varied cial Olympics officials. European landscapes. The northern Parishoners, athletes and coaches republic of Slovenia has snow-covered mingled, exchanging addresses, taking Alps popular among European skiers. pictures and swapping stories about the The republic of Croatia sports the "old country." "You're our people," Adriatic coast and the southern and the Americans kept reminding them. 

The Observer,Suzanne Poch 
Rollerskating is one of six demonstra­tion to the official ISSOG roster. 

tion sports being considered for addi-


Celebrities join in fun 
By SUSAN MULLEN mittee is responsible for working with Observer Staff community hosts and hostesses who are assigned to each of the V.I.P.s or 
Special Olympians are not the only celebrities. stars shining this week at International "Our main funtion is to work with Summer Special Olympics Games. hosts and hostesses and see that the 
They will be sharing a portion of the V.I.P.s and others attend the events." spotlight with such familiar names as says Hillman. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Rocky Bleier, This celebrity hosting committe is Michael Jordan and Susan St. James. chaired by Marion Beckman and Lena 
Also making appearances are Em­Corrigan, who match up each commu­manuel "Webster" Lewis, Barbara nity host with an appropriate "hostee." Mandrell, John Nabor and countless Beckman and Corrigan consider age others. and special interests when making 
these matches. 
These celebrities and sports heroes "We really want to help the V.I.P or will be joined by ambassadors, heads celebrity get a good picture of what the of states, first ladies, Mayors and the Games have to offer," says Hillman. top administrators of both St. Mary's Once paired with a guest, the com­College and Notre Dame. munity host or hostess is responsible 
The V .I.P. and Celebrity Committee for greeting his or her visitor at the has been organized To ensure that airport, and helping that person find 
V.I.P.sand celebreties get the most out his or her way around campus or to of their visits to Special Olympics and hotels. More importantly, the hosts help South Bend. their guests keep track of any special 
Chaired by Anne Hillman, this com-appearances or functions at the Games. 
Premier Sponsor of the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games 
CIVITAN INTERNATIONAL WORLD HEADQUARTERS: 
P.O. BOX 2102, BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA 35201 (205) 591-8910 

~ ---------------~~~· 
Trading pins 

hottest among 
fast-selling 

souveniers 
By JIM RILEY 
Observer Staff 

Four truckloads of souvenirs have been brought to campus for the Inter­national Summer Special Olympics Games, and they are selling so fast that vendors are already beginning to run out of some items. 
» Rollie Schmidt, Inc., the official sup­plier of souvenirs to the Games for the last 14 years, has brought in 250,000 units for sale, according to company president Ruth Jean Schmidt. 
"Yet we can't keep stock of things," Schmidt said. 
The biggest movers so far have been the pins which Special Olympics parti­cipants and fans are so fond of trading. 
Schmidt said she has six stands set up today, and will have seven stands, including two sattelites, by Monday, in­cluding locations near Olympic Town and in and around the ACC. 
The items sold include pins, pens, shirts, mugs, tablets, notebooks, notecards, postcards, and many more. 
Proceeds from the sales benefit the Games. 
Items are selling so quickly that workers ferry boxes of souvenirs on golf carts from the trucks to the stands. The trucks include two trailers over 45 feet long as well as two Ryder trucks. Both the trucks and their drivers were provided by Ryder. 

~:lliv£~ ~ 
... 
~ERdESl 

held in the North Dome of the Joyce ACC. 
The Observer!Suzanne Poch
An Olympian perfects her balance beam routine durine early round com·petition. All Gymnastics events are 
HE'S AN ATHLETE. HE'S AN OLYMPIAN. AND HE'S A HERO. The Knights of Columbus is proud to be part of The Knights of Columbus works this hard the SpecialOlympics. We're proud of each of because we believe volunteers make a big the heroic athletes who are participating in difference in the Games ... and the world. the Summer Games. That's why the Knights' donated 21 million The K of C helps out in lots of ways. We're man-hours to community service and made coordinating the volunteer involvement of $67 million worth of charitable disbursements nearly 5,000 K of C members and their last year.($11.3 million of that total families ... contributing a quarter million benefitted programs for mentallydollars as a Principal Sponsor ... retarded citizens.) arranging housing in the South Bend It's why the Knights received area for athletes' families ... and the President's Volunteerrecruiting more than 1,200 vol­Action Award from Presidentunteers for the opening Reagan for "Mobilizationceremonies of the '87Games. of Volunteers."We're also pleased to have provided the printing of And it's why we're proud 25,000 copies of a to be part of the Summer commemorative poster I Games. by noted artist John L. Terelak. .1 The Knights of Columbus is a .ICatholic, family, fraternal benefit society with 1.4 million dues-paying members worldwide.  

The Observer 

Many interpreters enjoy challenging opportunities 
By MAHILYN BENCHIK Ina Rosenberg and Jan Jenkins, Observer Staff volunteer placement co-chairpersons for the International Special Olympics, 
Baseball caps, t-shirts and free tick­were in charge of' 'taking all volunteers ets to the Opening Ceremonies are not and placing them in the needed areas." the only fringe benefits volunteers will Rosenberg said that she and Jenkins receive before the end of the Interna­tried to assign the volunteers to their tional Summer Special Olympics first choice. "Most preferences were Games this year. with the particular sporting activities, 
"It's an exciting feeling to be able to such as track and field and aquatics," help somebody," Spanish interpreter, she said. Ellen Krulewitch, said. People chose most often to be bug­
Krulewitch is working two days for gers, stagers for a particular athletic the Olympics. She said her greatest event, and timers. pleasure in working is "the thrill I get The Olympics only required 10,000 when I watch the kids. It's also great volunteers from the community and to see the community as involved as it 19,000 applied to work, according to is." Rosenberg. "We had a tremendous 
Her most frantic request so far has response from the community." 
been to locate a young man who was Not wanting to turn anyone away, 
very late for his athletic event. "I was Rosenberg, Jenkins and their 12 mem­
trying to get a hold of him so he ber committee decided to assemble 
wouldn't be eliminated from his activ­teams to cheer and witness the athletes 
ity." while competing. 
More typical requests include giving "The cheer teams were assigned to 
people directions. "One woman needed sit in a section in groups of nine. 
to know where Cartier field was, and I They're very helpful because it would 
had to get her to the opposite side of seem kind of silly not to have any ob­
the ACC." servers and cheerers there," she 
She also had to help a lady who did added. 
not feel well. "I asked her if she was 
allergic to anything and what sort of Members of the cheer teams also act 
medication she was taking." as back-ups if a previously scheduled 
Krulewitch has been asked questions volunteer decides not to show. 
"about once every hour." Rosenberg said that they asked for 
"What I'm having the biggest prob­volunteers who were 13 years and older. 
lem with is remembering the different "Wf': have a pretty equal number of vol­
Spanish athletic terms," she said. unteers in all possible age brackets," 
She added that she has not had any she said. 
problem talking to the Special Olym­She reported that various profes­
pians or their families. sionals in the community have donated 
Every volunteer, including Ellen their services. "We have every doctor 
Krulewitch, first filled out an applica­in the area working at the Games. 
tion form which indicated what they Many of the Special Olympians have 
were interested in doing for the Special medical problems, and the doctors are 
Olympics. very helpful." 
ISSOG Issue Sunday, August 2, 1987 -page 5 

Performers demonstrate gymnastic skills on a trampoline at the EXPO Cen­



------~~-~--~---------------~--------.., 
A television crew prepares for a shoot at the weightlifitng facilities, located in 


American discoveries impress Peruvians 
Hello 

The Observer 

By KIM YURATOVAC Observer Staff 
They don't take anything for granted, not even the rain. 
Saturday's showers surprised four Peruvian Olympians who stretched out their arms to feel the cold rain as it pelted their faces. "Es Bonito," they shouted. "We don't have so much rain in Peru," 17-year-old Luis Gonzalez remarked in his native Spanish. "And when it does rain, there are no storms like this." 
Gonzalez, along with fellow athletes Juan Carlos Moran, Victor Goninez and Orlando Paredes, huddled together and shuddered each time the sky thun­dered. "We never heard anything like Washington Hall, on the Notre Dame campus. 
this before. In Peru, when the rain comes, it is so peaceful." The athletes marvelled at their interpretor's umbrella. They practiced opening and closing it but never took cover beneath it. They preferred to stand in the drizzle. 
As they looked around the campus, they commented on how new every­thing looks. "In America, there are so many new cars," Gonzalez noted. "I haven't seen any old cars at all. I think America is very beautiful, but very flat. There are many mountains in Peru." 
"It is more quiet here. We have ter­rorism in our country. I am glad to see that we are all united here. I met people from all different countries and we ex-
Halla 
ISSOG Issue Sunday, August 2, 1987 -page 6 
Barbados' swimming coach provides optimistic message 
By CATHY STACY Observer Staff 

For the past nine months, Patrick Forde has been swimming with team­mates Andrew and Llewellyn on Bar­bados' first aquatic delegation, but coach Aubrey Corbin is hopeful for the team during their first year. 
"Andrew learned only (to swim) in the past two months. I was relying on my skills as a coach," said Corbin, who has been working without an assitant coach in preparation for the games. "He was to swim 25 meters, but he now swims twice that much." 
Each athlete is placed in his division according to the time that his country or state submits for his race. Male and female participants swim in different divisions, and there are three age groups: 8-15 years, 16-21 years, and 22 and over. 
"There are no starting blocks and 
changed pins. We are all competing to­gether." 
The road to the Games brought the Peruvians through Ecuador and Cuba before arriving in Detroit Friday night. For many of them, it was the first time they had flown on an airplane. "At first, I was afraid, but it wasn't bad," said Gonzalez. The athletes are looking for­ward to watching American television and meeting more foreigners. Although they speak no English, they know at least one word, "hi." Not a person walked by that they did not greet. 
Of all their new American dis­coveries, the Olympians were particu­larly impressed with American food. "Sabrosso," they shouted and kissed their hands, waving them into the air they can dive, deck start, or start in the water,'' said Corbin. All coaches are allowed to sit beside the pool, but they cannot approach the swimmers to guide them through the race. 
According to Corbin, Barbados' team had never swum in an Olympic sized pool before they practiced yesterday. The pool they have been practicing in is only 16.8 yards long, which means they must swim three laps to meet the race requirement. 
"They didn't want to leave the pool this morning. They are just eager to get into the pool," he said. 
While maintaining realistic hopes, Corbin recognizes how far his team has come during the Games. "I am looking at the games for the future. They have already achieved a lot." 
"If more than (I expect) happens for our first experience, it will be good," Corbin added. "It wouldn't be realistic to expect too much." 
with approval. But Peruvian food is good, too, they reminded. They spoke of their favorite meal , Pescado (fish). "We'd like to invite some Americans to come to our country and try our fish." 
"We're excited about the competi­tion," runner Victor Goninez said. "We want to make a good name for Peru and we want to bring home medals to our families. We are going to make them proud of us." 
Luis Gonzalez gathered his team­mates together to take pictures with their new American friends. "Sonrisa," he shouted and for a single still mo­ment, they all stood together in the bril­liant flash. 


Lo'i Dung de chao 
Member FDIC 
-~-----~~---------­
r--------------~-----~--~--­
The Observer 


Excitement of winning touches families, too 
By MATT SITZER 
Observer Staff 
Although the spotlight is on the ath­
letes at this year's Summer Games, 
many of their families will undoubtedly 
find that they are having just as much 
fun. 
Skeptical? 
Then ask Bud and Pauline Henley -­
they're experts! 
The Henleys came to this year's In­ternational Games from their home in Warwick, Rhode Island to watch their son, Michael, compete with his team­mates in volleyball. 
Michael, who won a gold medal in the soccer competion four years ago in Baton Rouge, flew to South Bend with his teammates in a state sponsored private jet on Thursday evening. Bud and Pauline arrived separately on Friday. 
"Rhode Island had a wonderful send­off in downtown Providence for the ath­letes," said Pauline. "They had a big dinner and ceremony for the team before they left." 
The Henleys have been involved in Special Olympics for over 14 years. Mi­chael, now 22, began competing when he was eight, and Bud and Pauline have been active in parent groups for almost as long. 
"Pauline and I are members of the Family Club of the Rhode Island Spe­cial Olympics Organization," said Bud. "We work with the state Special Olym­pics organization from year to year, but we are always working toward the In­ternational Games." 
The Henleys, like many families here, are veterans of the International Summer Games. They were among the spectators at Baton Rouge, Louisianna, for the VI International Games in 1983, when Michael and his soccer team­mates won their gold medals. 
"It was just fantastic," said Bud. "I think we were more excited than he was!" 
According to Pauline, one of the high­lights of the Baton Rouge Games was the opening ceremonies. "It was won­derful," she said. "I cried through the whole thing! We've heard the Cere­mony this year is even bigger, so we're rea1ly looking forward to it." 
Over 60,000 people are expected to attend the Opening Ceremonies ex­travaganza tonight at Notre Dame Stadium. Singer Whitney Houston and "Miami Vice" star Don Johnson are just a few of the many celebrities slated to appear. The ABC Television Network will broadcast the Ceremonies nation­ally on Monday at 8 p.m. local time. 
Both Bud and Pauline are impressed with the athletic venues and facilities at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. They also appre-· ciate the efforts of the legions of St. Joseph Valley volunteers. 
"The people from Indiana have been very helpful," said Bud. "We met a great, young local couple, George and Shirley, who have been very active with our team," added Pauline. "We're aU having a ball!" 
Bud and Pauline are representative of many of the families in attendence' at this year's International Summer Games --meeting new people, making lasting friendships, and having a good time. 
And who knows, Michael may just win another gold medal! 
THE HUDDLE FOOD COURT at La Fortune Center 


~?~~JL!\IL ~©lUJ~ : 7:30 am to 11 :00 pm 
THE OAK ROOM at the South Dining Hall ~[Pl~~~L!\!L ~©lUJ~: 7:00 am to 10:30 pm 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Ad.l!uik:lng 

J HALL THE 
SOUTH DINING 
u 
N 
~-----11

~~~~~~~9~~~:~:-~ Ei El 
N A UP
D V 
E. 

-------------~--------­
ISSOG Issue Sunday, August 2, 1987-page 7 

The ObservertSuzanne Poch canoeing events take place. 

..., 1 
1 
1 
.. "'Il., 
1
.., 
front of Saint Mary's Lake where all 


OscoDrug.~"
-r.......-e 

COMBINE TO SUPPORT THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS! 
Special Olympics Commemorative Pins Are Available Exclusively At Osco Drug. 

Osco$2 99 
Price • 
CllolrJCob Dill Cllolrr Cob 
P!tooeet-11 ..... 

-,,ZN•JI )Jf[,j


---• 






r 
f.~
l~~l 
Uly171PfC§ 





Ready, 

~ 
"" 
,. 
r 
r 
r
"' 
,... 
,.. ~ 
r­
,... 
r 
r 
r 
r 
\ 




.,
• 
s 


'~~~ 


-
-
-----~-------~ --~ 



I 
I I 
t 
Fast-paced action makes Basketball one of the most popular events of the Games. 
Trials 
continued from page 1 
now gone on to work in the city. Some of them are housekeepers, others work in warehouses, and one is even a super­visor." 
Louisiana c.oach Juanetta Hebert has the most interesting coaching task. All of her players are deaf so she has to convey instructions to the players by using sign language and waving her towel to get their attention. 
"Sometimes the players have prob­lems with the officials but the commu­nication among each other is excel­lent," she said. 
It is no wonder they communicate so well since they go to a residential deaf school where they live together. Hebert states, "They have grown up like a fam­ily; they are really close." 
When asked how he liked playing on Notre Dame's floor, Louisiana player Patrick Williams responded, "I like it a lot. I love to watch David Rivers on TV. He is a real good guard." 
Gym 
continued from page 1 
nounced, and Bart Conner and Tracee Telavera administered the gymnastic oath, talented athletes mounted the equipment. The performance of each gymnast during the preliminaries determines in which level he will com­pete for the gold. 
"They are judged on their poise, whe­ther they perform independently -they take off one point if you touch or talk to them (while they compete)," said Georgia coach Susan Newton. They, too, had only three days to practice as a team .because members came from around the state. 
As a teacher of adaptive physical educaton, Newton has been working with Special Olympics for five years. The judges for each of the three levels come from similar backgrounds, she 

The play of the day went to Mic­higan's no.7, Mike Holstine. Against Colorado, Holstine stole the ball at the top of the key, spun and buried a jumper from three point land. 
He and teammates Bill Wilkes, Scott Goetz, and Paul Thomas defeated Colorado despite a great effort by Allan Wooley who stole the ball and took it the length of the floor, layed in a shot and drew the foul. 
Michigan coach Tom Shugar hopes that his team performs well. So does player Paul Thomas who said, "We try to win and do our best, this is our first year." 
Competion is sure to heat-up on Mon­day as teams start to compete in their divisions. Each team will play one game a day at five area gyms, these include the ACC auxiliary gym, the ACC arena, Clay High School, St. Joseph's High School, and Darden Elementary. 
To win the gold medal a team must survive a double elimination tourney in its division. Divisional pairings will be posted at 1:30 today. 

said, such as special education and parks and recreation. 
For Jaqueline Haynes, a special edu­cation teacher in Trinidad, coming to watch her students perform in the Games has been very exciting. Whether they capture the medal or not, she will continue to "root for the tops" -the support that makes not only the ath­letes the heros but everyone else as well. 
---~---------~-~~-------­
The Observer 
First ladies greeted 
By LIZ PANZICA Observer Staff 
About 100 Special Olympians were on hand at Michiana Regional Airport yes­terday morning to greet several first ladies from countries which have sent athletes to the Games, according to Media Services. 
The family of Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the mayors of South Bend and Mishawaka, and University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh were also in attendance. 
Heavy rain yesterday morning forced the ceremony indoors. Area people had the chance to greet the first ladies they would be hosting. 
Sam, one of the athletes, presented the first ladies with stationery of his own design. He and several other Spe­cial Olympians created abstract designs in lavender and yellow. His mother said Sam was chosen to meet the first ladies because of his outgoing personality. 
"He likes people and likes the atten­tion, and they can always count on him." 
Sam said he also presented the first ladies with pictures on a variety of themes. Several represented houses, cars and the MTV logo. 
The first ladies came from countries including Bolivia, Columbia, El Sal­vador, Greece, Guatamala, the Republic of Ireland, and Portugal. 
After meeting the first ladies, Sam, like many of the athletes, raced to the ACC to begin the day's gymnastics ac­tivities. 
Though Sam is not a competitor in the international competition, he was choosen to perform routines on the high bar and parallel bars. He performed the basic routine for the judges so they could set up a base score to use for the competing athletes. 
He was chosen for the honor because he had the highest score in those events at the Indiana State Games and was a local Olympian. 
Sam said he hopes to compete in the International Games one day. 
His mother said she is very happy with Sam's involvement in Special Olympics. She said that his gymnastics have benefited him greatly. "If he can control his whole body, then he can learned to do things at a more detailed level." 

Forum addresses issues 
Special to The Observer 
Five "Special Olympics Forums," focusing on the philosophical, scien­tific, technical and practical issues related to Special Olympics' develop­ment around the world, will be held today through Thursday from 1:30 p.m. -2:30p.m. in the auditorium of the Cen­ter for Continuing Education. 
The forums, designed for audience participation, begin today with "The Special Olympics Philosophy" led by the Honorable Sargent Shriver, Presi­dent of Special Olympics International. The philosophy, purpose and goals of the Olympics will be covered, along with a discussion of its history and fu­ture. 

All athletes, board members, coaches, managers, organizers, par­ents, volunteers and friends are wel­comed to attend. Simultaneous trans­lations will be available in French and Spanish. 
ISSOG Issue Sunday, August 2, 1987-page 11 



OlgJJJpic!i 
§lcrown® 
PRINCIPAL SPONSOR OF 1987 INTERNATIONAL SUMMER GAMES 
Salutes: 

Atlas/Soundolier, Fenton, Missouri Beldon Wire and Cable, Richmond, Indiana Boardwalk and Baseball, Haines City, Florida The Bradley-Toner Agency, Inc., Mishawaka, Indiana Carol Cable Co., Pawtucket, Rhode Island Cetec Vega. Inc., Elmonte, California Community Light and Sound, Chester, Pennsylvania Electro-Voice, Inc., Buchanan, Michigan Klark Teknik Electronics, Farmingdale, New York Koontz-Wagner Electric, Inc., South Bend, Indiana 
Micro Innovations, Winter Springs, Florida 
Pro Co Sound, Kalamazoo, Michigan 
Sharp Communications ofSouth Bend, South Bend, Indiana 
Shuford Mills, Hickory, North Carolina 
Starcase, Munster, Indiana 
Tascam, Inc., Montebello, California 
Tripp Lite, Inc., Chicago, Illinois 
Whiteford Truck Lines, Inc., South Bend, Indiana 
for soundly uniting with our commitment. 
CROWN INTERNATIONAL • 1718 W MISHAWAKA ROAD • ELKHART. INDIANA 46517 • f2191 294-8000 

--------------~~-------------.--.,--~---~---.--------..._.________ 

Volleyball prelims set to begin Monday 
Softball games are being played at the The Reardon Stepan Center diamonds on the north end of the Notre Dame Campus. 
Mr. j's Family Restaurant 
1915 So. 11th St. (US 31-33 .so.) Niles Michigan 49120 (2 Miles North of the Indiana-Michigan 
By JUDY MOLNAR Staff Writer 
Bumping, setting and spiking are the keys to winning a volleyball match. 
The Angela Athletic Facility is host to the volleyball competition during the 1987 Games. 
The events offered include team com­petition and team skills competition. The first day of competition consists of evaluating the teams and placing them in divisions based on the level of skill. 
During the evaluation period a com­mittee uses an assessment sheet to rank the teams from one to five. The athletes are judged on defense, offense, serving, passing, setting, and spiking skills. Once the ten minute individual rounds are completed, the team is ranked on the basis of an overall average score. 


State Border) Phone 684-5560 
8th Annual 1OK Grape Stomp 
Caring .. . Sharing .. . Joy ... Courage ... 
We Love You Special Olympians! 
GO FOR IT. 


.._,t ---~·'" 
~~ 

Saturday, August 29th 1987 
Start: 8:30A.M. (Indiana Time) 9:30A.M (Michigan Time) Place-Start/Finish St. Patrick's Countrv Port-~ 50651 laurel Rd. 
laurel & Auten -one mile west of US 31/33 (South Bend-Niles State Line) 
The process takes some time because the team skills are re-evaluated to make sure all the divisions are evenly matched. 
"These preliminary rounds help the. athletes get familiar with the officiat­ing and the rules of the event," said Ruth Nelson, the professional volley­ball coach of the Dallas Belles. 
Nelson is working as a consultant volunteer for the volleyball _competi­tion. "The games needed some exper­tise in volleyball so (they) could be a showcase for the athletes. The exper­tise of the games (gives) the athletes the opportunity to participate in a first class event." 
According to Nelson, the Games have been expanded to include 39 teams, in­cluding five foreign volleyball teams: Barbados, Chile, Panama, Trinidad, and the United Kingdom. 
Competitionwill be played under the Official Special Olympics Volleyball rules in conjunction with the rules of the International Volleyball Federa­tion. 
The winner of a volleyball match must win two out of three games in a 
Soccer spirit shines through 
By JUDY MOLNAR Observer Staff 
Hit it off your head or any other part of your body, but do not use your hands. The sport is, of course, the fast paced and hard hitting game of soccer. 
The soccer competition is filled with many talented teams from foreign countries. The spirit to win was con­stant on the first day of team trials 
Even though Saturday morning began with a rain shower, it did not seem to dampen the athletes' spirits to compete. Teams played all mornin as 




AI><>LL<> 
Offset Printing & Thermography 
A FULL SERVICE GRAPHIC DESIGN & PRINTING HOUSE 
RAISED LETfER 
PRINTING 

• 
BUSINESS FORMS 

• 
BROCHURES 

• 
RESUMES 

• 
CATALOGS 

• 
FLYERS 

• 
SPEC BOOKS 

• 
2&3 COLOR PRINTING 

• 
NEWSLETTERS 

• 
BUSINESS CARDS 

• 
LETTERHEADS 

• 
ENVELOPES 


Complete Computerized Typesetting and Layout Department 
Free Delivery 2 8 7 • 3 7 0 7 Free Pickup 
Monday· Friday 8:30AM -5:30 PM Saturday 9:00AM -Noon 731 South Michigan St.-South Bend 
"Let us save you time and money" 
match. The net heights are 7'11 5-'8" for men and 7'4 lAl" for the women. All officiating will follow the rules, but few modifications will be observered in the hitting errors. 
Preparing for a successful competi­tion takes a lot of time and hard work. "Our volleyball team had an instruc­tional camp for one week in Palm Springs that got all the players to­gether," said Mike Ruspil of the Cali­fornia team. 
"Everyone is really enthusiastic about being in the Games and is ready to play. Maybe they are too excited be­cause of being here," said Ruspil. 
Former Olympic player Rose Major Powell and Claudia Lee, a professional player from the LA Star lights, will hold a clinic on August 6 for two athletes from each team. During the clinic a demonstration on how to administer skill testing will help to standardize the divisioning of teams. 
The enthusiasm on and off the court 
is positive and the competition looks 
good. The team competion begins on 
August 3 and continues through August 
6. 
committee members assessed their skills in defense, offense, dribbling, shooting, passing, and blocking. 
Soccer games shall consist of two 45 minute periods with a ten minute half time. All the final divisions will be based on the average team score from Saturday morning's ten minute trial rounds. 
The participation of soccer star Pele will highlight the competition. He will host a soccer clinic to demonstrate skills he has mastered for the athletes to learn. 
-~.._..-------------------~ ~---­

The Observer 
SMC campus takes on equestrian appearance 

By PETE GEGEN 
Observer Staff 
The northeast lawn of Saint Mary's has taken on different look thanks to the equestrian events, one of five dif­ferent demonstration sports in this edi­tion of the International Summer Spe­cial Olympics Games. 
A large tent covers 40 temporary stalls at one quarter of the lawn. The rest of the space has been converted to three separate arenas where the various equestrian events take place. 
The riders carrying their equipment and the white picket fence surrounding the main arena give the place a genuine equestrian feel. Of course, as volunteer coordinator Susan Mueller points out, achieving this look was not easy. 
"It was very difficult," she says. "Last Saturday (July 25) the ground was extremely hard, and we had a work crew come out and put 75 four-by-fours into the ground. That alone took 12 hours." 
A youth summer employment group handled the chore of painting the fence white. That would have completed the preparations for the arenas, but a small nuisance kept the volunteers busy. 
"Ground squirrels were digging up the ground and leaving holes," says Mueller. "We tried filling the holes with earth, but the next morning the holes were back. So we called the Humane Society and they recommended putting moth balls in the holes before covering them up." The volunteers also spray­painted the holes with fluorescent paint to warn riders. 
The make-shift barn was rented from Cattleman's Leasing Co. of Missouri. It's a long distance to go for a stable, but Cattleman's product had certain safety features others didn't. 
© Hardee"s Food System. Inc./Area VII 
"It is extremely safe because the stalls are completely made of canvas, and it is very rigid and firm,'' says Mueller. "Others are made of wooden slats, and the horses can put their legs through them and twist them." 
Safety is the main concern with this event, especially for the riders. The horses were carefully chosen from farms in northern Indiana and southern Michigan. Of the group of 37 horses tested Friday, two had to be sent back because they were for more advanced riders. 
The equestrian events were not originally scheduled for the Saint Mary's campus. Kingston Riding Cen­ter, located south of town on a farm owned by Leanne Miller, the venue chairperson for the equestrian events, was the original site. The ISSOG com­mittee, however, wanted to keep the events in relatively the same area, and Saint Mary's College was converted to Saint Mary's Equestrian Park. 
As its demonstration status suggests, this is the first year for the equestrian events at the international level.It has been held at the state level in the past. The ISSOC uses the demonstration status to test the feasability of new com­petitions, such as equestrian events, on the Special Olympic level. 
The horse show events, for example, are being tested to see how the compe­tition translates to the Special Olympic level. For these games, competitions will be held in showmanship, equita­tion, obstacle course and dressage. 
The equestrian events have attracted 34 competitors, including two each from Belgium and Jamaica. Trials will be held Sunday and Monday, with the finals following Tuesday and Wednes­day. 
By PETE GEGEN 
Observer Staff 
In addition to the equestrian events, four other demonstration sports are being held at the International Summer Special Olympics Games. 
Cycling events take place every af­ternoon on a 2.5-kilometer course on the Saint Mary's campus. According to cy­cling venue Dan McCarthy, this event was spurred on by a recent boom in cycling in the United States. 
"This event is popular more so in Europe than in the United States," he says. "Yet cycling is an activity for the family, and for many of these Special Olympians who cannot drive, it is a basic form of transportation for them." 
The finals begin on Monday with a 5-kilometer race, followed by a 1­kilometer dash on Tuesday and the 15­kilometer competition on Wednesday. 
Because many Special Olympians believe in training hard for their 
Welcome, Special Olympians! 
There is no greater challenge than to give allyou've got in pursuit qfyourgoal. 7byou who have dared accept that challenge, Welcome to South Bend. Your courage, pnae and dedication ennoble the human spirit and bring tnumph to all 
You make us proud to be part qfthe Special 0/ympics. Let the games begirz. 

HardE 
Platintun Sponsor of the 1987 International Stunmer Special Olympics Games:M 
ISSOG Issue Sunday, August 2, 1987-page 13 
events, weightlifing has become an im­portant part of their routine. But begin­ning Sunday morning, weightlifting will be an international event unto itself. 
"The athlete's use of weights in train­ing lends itself to a Special Olympic sport," says Gary Wei!, the coordinator for the weightlifting competition. 
The competition is being held in Washington Hall, which is better known for its dramatic productions than these weightlifting competitions. But as Wei! notes, Washington Hall allows for a championship-type setup, complete with announcers and electronic scoring. 
Competition in the bench press begins Sunday morning at 10. 
Rollerskating demonstrations are being held every day except Tuesday at Stepan Center. 
Finally, Table tennis is the fifth fea­tured sport. Competition begins Wed­nesday at the ACC. 
I 1\1 I I Q 1\1 A I I 0 N A l SUM MIll 

~·tE

-.... 

l 
l
\Iii
... 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS G A ME s·· 

1 
l 
l 
r-----------~-~----------~-~~ ~ ~ 
----~----~-~~---·-------~~~­
The Observer 

Track events  
draw the most  
athletes  
By SUSAN MULLEN  
Observer Staff  
Mter more than an hour rain delay,  
the athletics events were finally under­ 
way at Cartier Field.  
O'le of the more familiar sports, ath­ 
letics (track and field events) draws  
participants from every country  
represented at the ISSOG.  
Before athletes assemble at the track  
or field for their specific event, they  
must report to the athletic staging area,  
located in tents behind the ACC. Ath­ 
letes are assigned their positon and  
lane then taken to the track by a volun­ 
teer escort.  
Shouting above the announcer's calls  
and the athletes' chatter, escort Kent  
Stouder described the staging area as  
"probably the most confusing part of  
the races. "He said, "It is starting to  
run a little more smoothly, but we're  
having trouble locating athletes when  
we call their names."  
It comes as no surprise that the first  
day of the athletics events was charac­ 
terized by some confusion since more  
athletes participate in the track and  
field events than any other sport. As  
the week progresses and athletes and  
coaches become more accustomed to  
the pre-race routine, things should run  
smoothly.  
Another escort, with rows of safety  
pins dangling from her waist, is in  
charge of pinning numbers on athletes  
as soon as they are assigned a lane po­ 
sition. She explains that it is difficult  
to locate athletes because of the differ­ 
ent languages spoken. But once they  
The Observer&an Reardon  are located, she said, "things are just 
Athletes participated in Saturday's 100  meter  Wheelchair  Race,  hoping  to  qualify for competition in later rounds.  fine."  

I
I 
~ 
I 

eAll Sandwiches Custom Made 
Homemade donuts made fresh daily $1.89 Dozen varieties of De1i Salads 

•Free Delivery Eckrich Deli Meats py the Pound Sinai ~Kosher Meats bythe~Pound 
Bologna $1.69 lb. *Corned Beef *-pastrami*Roast Beef* Pickle &. Pimento Loaf $1.89 lb. * Salami *Turkey*Minced Sausa_ge Loaf $2.39 lb. 
*Any Combination $5.39 lb.*

Old Fashioned Loaf $2.39 lb. 
Oood Thru 8-8-87Oood Thru 8-8-87 

Challenger's Edge Sandwich 
SKILL And CARE Goes Into Making This Sandwich For You. It Will Bring Lots Of JOY To SHARE With A Friend. 
SPECIAL PRICE $3.87 Ham, Salami, Pepperoni, Ameri­can & Swiss Cheese, Special Let­tuce & Tomato, Mayonnaise & Mustard(On A Bun). Comes With A Kosher Pickle And 
Your One Stop 

Potatoe Salad. 
Michiana's Original 

Special OlYmpics Kosher Delicatessen Deli 
------------------~~--------­

The Observer ISSOG Issue Sunday, August 2, 1987 -page 15 
LIMPIADAS ESPECIALES INTERNACIONALES SEPTIEMES JEUX INTERNATIONAUX D'ETE 
DE VERANO DE 1987 SPECIAL OLYMPICS CALENDARIO DE EVENTOS PROGRAMME 
EVENTO  sab 1  dom 2  lun 3  mar 4  mler 5  jue 6  vier 7  SITIO  
Ceremonias de Apertura  •  Notre Dame Stadium  
Doportes Acuaticos  ...•  •  ...•  •  ...•  .•..  •  N.D. Rolfs Aquatic Ctr  
Atlatismo  ; ..  ••  ; ..  ...••  ...•  ; ..  ••  N.D. Cartier Field  
• BalonceSio  ...•  ••  ...•  ; ..  ...•  ; ..  •  Notre Dame ACC  
Boliche  ••  •  •  ••  ••  •  Chippewa Bowl Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College Notre Dame ACC  
C:ictismo  •  •  
Deportes Ecuestr6s  ••  ••  ••  ••  •  
Gimnas1a  ; ..  ••  ...•  ...•  ••  ; ..  
Patinaja sobra ruadas  ••  •  ...  ••  ••  N.D. Stepan Center  
f:utbol-Softball  ••  ••  ; ..  ; ..  ; ..  ; ..  N.D. Alumni Field -­ 
; ..  ••  ; ..  ; ..  ; ..  ; ..  •  N.D. Stepan Center  
Tanis de mesa  ••  ••  Notre Dame ACC ·--·-­N.D. Courtney Courts  
Tanis ~ Volleyball  ••  ••  •• 
••  ••  ; ..  ; ..  ...•  ...•  •  -­Saint Mary's Angela  
Levantamianto de pesas  •  ••  ••  ••  N.D. Washington Hall  
Parque St. Patrick  •  Saint Patrick's Park  
Centro Expo  •  ••  ••  ••  ••  ••  ••  St. Mary's O'Laughlin  
Feria4-H  •  St. Joe County Fairgrd  
Baile lntarnacional  •  Saint Mary's Angela  
Ciudad Ollmpica  •  ••  ••  ••  ••  ••  ••  N.D. Gold/Blue Field  
Noche deportiva  •  Notre Dame ACC  
Fiesta para voluntarios  ...  Notre Dame ACC  
Caremonias de Clausura  •  Notre Dame ACC  

EPREUVES ET ANIMATION  sam 1  dim 2  lun 3  mar 4  mer 5  jeu 6  van 7  SITE  
ceremonie d'ouverture  •  Stade  
Natation  ...•  •  ; ..  •  .•..  .•..  •  Centre de Natation  
Athletisme  ; ..  ••  ; ..  ; ..  ; ..  ; ..  ••  --· Terrain Cartier ---­ 
• Basket-ball  ; ..  ••  ; ..  ; ..  ; ..  ...•  •  Palais des Sports  
Bowling  ••  •  •  •  •  •  Salle Chippewa  
Cyclisme  •  •  •  •  St. Mary's College  
Equitation  ••  ••  ••  ••  •  St. Mary's College  
Gymnastique  ...•  ••  ...•  ...•  ••  ; ..  Paiais des Sports  
Patinage A roulettes  ••  •  ...  ••  •  Centre Stepan  
Football  ••  ••  ...•  ...•  .•.. • ...•  Terrain Cartier  
Softball  ; ..  ••  ...•  ; ..  ; ..  ...•  •  Centra Stepan  
Tennis de table  ••  ••  Palals des Sports  
Tennis  ••  ••. ••  Courts Courtney  
Volley-ball  ••  ••  ..  ; ...  ...•  ...•  •  Salle Angela, SMC  
HalterophHia  •  ••  ••  ••  TheAtre Washington  
Soiree au Pare  •  Pare St.-Patrick  
Centre EXPO  •  ••  ••  ••  ••  ••  ••  TheAtre O'Laughlin  
txposition agricola 4-H  •  Terrain de l'ax_position ducomt&--SaUe Angela, SMC 
Soiree de danse  •  
Ville Olympique  •  ••  ••  ••  ••  ••  ••  Champ Or/Bieu, NO Palals des Sports  
Soiree des sports  •  
Bourn des volontaires  A  I' Palals des Sportc  
caremonie de cl6ture  •  .Palale des Sports  

CLAVE: e Mal'\ana 'Otros sitios para el baloncesto CLE: e MATIN 'Salles suppl&mentaires de basket-ball 9:00a.m.-12:00 p.m. Clay High School, 9 h 00-12 h 00 Ecole secondaire Clay 
• Tarde Darden School. • Apr6s-midi Ecole Darden 
12:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. St. Joseph High School 12h00-17hOO Ecole secondaire St.-Joseph 
A Noche A. Solr 5 p.m. -9 p.m. 17hQ0-21 hOO 
SuPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS­
SENDA 
BRAVO! CONGRATS! HAPPY DAY! HOORAY! 
Celebrate birthdays, holidays and special occasions--or simply tell someone "Hooray for youI" with the Hooray Bouquet. This large lavish assortment of colorful, fresh-cut flowers is shipped for you overnight by Federal Express. Best of all, when you order a Hooray Bouquet, you'll benefit the International Summer Special Olympics Games. BOO-FLOWERS is donating $5.00 to the International Organizing Games Committee for each Hooray Bouquet purchased. 
You can be a hero and help support this remarkable athletic event, by sending a Special Olympics Bouquet, today! HOORAY BOUQUET
This $39.95 gift box of beautiful flowers is specially priced for 
82995 
only $29.95. 
Plus shipping. 

DIAL 1-800-FLOWERS 
Federal Express is aregistered trademark of the Federal Express Services Corporation. No olher co~n or discount may be used in conjunction with this offer. 




8CD·FL@WERs· 
Your 24,Hour Nationwide Florist· 



Let's Dance! 
By BOB TYLER 
Observer Staff 
A bus ride to a rendezvous? 

Yes, a trip by the shuttle bus to An­gela Athletic Facility of Saint Mary's College. 
It's party time Saturday night. Jimmy with the New Orleans delegation wears a mask and proclaims it Mardi Gras. John, the Canadian in the seat behind him, rants that he's ready for some fun. A woman from Florida smiles behind the driver. 
Bus No.166 rolls to a stop by the Facility's doors. And the passengers tumble out, joining their peers. They wear sweatshirts of their homelands, dance clothes, and costumes of bandits, baseball players, and punkers. 
At the door, James Kirkpatrick of Washington, D.C., wearing a Scottish Kilt prepares to welcome the following busloads. "I learned the bagpipes when I was young, and I just decided to come here to cheer them on," he says. 
Through the main doors, crowds wait on the running track that serves as a balcony over the dance floor. Special Olympians wait for the Dowagiac, Mic­higan band, Spare Parts, to finish set­ting up. In a corner, Jerry from Virginia talks about "all the neat costumes." 
Angie from Washington State talks about the canine at her feet. Sheba lovingly eyes her master. "She knows when I'm going to have a seizure," says Angie. "She somehow can tell from my scent when its going to happen. Sheba warns me and stays near in case I fall; she's especially protective during my gymnastic practices" 
Joe from St. Paul Minesota talks 

about his day losing a softball scrim­mage 6 to 1. But it doesn't matter, he's here and ready to party. Ken from Washington, D.C. seconds that motion. The announcement comes over the 
P .A. System: Time to come on down and party. The crowd starts to flow down the stairs to the gymnasium floor below the net of baloons. Groups from Minnesota, California, Pennsylvania, Ireland, Indonesia, and China ner­vously group on areas of the huge dance floor. Nervous laughter, questions, and muffled comments cross many of their faces. 
"Spare Parts" strums their chords of voice, drum, and string. The mixer begins; a special world class party. At first, the balcony remains crowded and the floor rather slow with souls war­ming up, as in any party, to the beat and the spirit of the event. 
Then the amplifiers beat-out: "R­O-C-K IN THE USA". The floor swarms alive with arms and feet shaking. Faces smile and mouths let out goodtime laughter. The Canadian Cowboy does the twist. A group does the Conga Line. A couple from Wisconsin does the "Bump". Break dancing is sure to come before the night raps up. Looking from above, the gym floor is a United Nations dancing the night away. 
Anxiety dissipates. The balcony is sparcely populated. The floor below is swarming with all kinds of colors of all kinds of special people demonstrating to the world in their own way how to have fun. 
Sunday, the Games begin again and the Special Olympians will compete. But last night they danced in world class fun. 






