
Typical
IACCENT: NO's poet-in-residence Mostly cloudy today, high in the mid to upper 30s. Low in the mid to upper 20s. Cloudy tomorrow with a 50 percent
IVIEWPOINT: Honor Code controversy 
chance of rain or snow. 


DIR 
z1 * 

ns/15/88 EvpEDITE *** 
-ws **** '"' 
**** NE cnLLECTIONS
SPECIAL ·-. . HESBURGH LIBRARY IN 46556 
NOTRE D~-r.-.-.======== 
VOL. XXI, NO. 60 WEONESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Sports enthusiast Plimpton urges participation 
i: 
? • 

~ 
The Observer 1 Trey Raymond

Taking his cue 
Senior Mario Pellicano prepares to sink a ball in the the basement of LaFortune Student Center. corner pocket at The Break, the recreation center in 
By PETE GEGEN 
News Staff 
With a fascination for people who do "something on impulse totally out of their ordinary lives," Tuesday night George Plimpton described his experi­ences as a writer who entered the world of professional sports. 
In front of a basketball­hindered crowd of 100, Plimpton opened his lecture at Washington Hall with a series 
Board still trying to get library open earlier 
By CHRISTINE MCCANN 
News Staff 
Efforts to extend library hours at Saint Mary's are still under negotiation with the library staff, said Eileen Hetterich, president of the Board of Governance, at the weekly meeting last night. 
Whereas students want the library to open on Sun­days at 11 a.m. instead of 1 p.m., staffers are not willing to accept an increase in their working hours. 
The library administra­tion told a student commit­tee working on the problem that a survey of five other Indiana colleges showed that St. Mary's provides more access to library facilities than those schools. 

Hetterich said, however, that these colleges do not compare with Saint Mary's in size and quality. The stu­dent committee plans to compare the library facilities offered at other colleges which it considers more comparable to Saint Mary's and is researching 
see BOARD, page 6 

of stories of people whose lives have changed after performing some out-of-the-ordinary stunt. For example, a fan who tried to take the football in the middle of a Colts-Dolphins game suffered from the publicity, losing his job and his wife. But a fan who tried to make a tackle in a college foot­ball game thrived on the publicity and later became a millionaire. 
Plimpton used the word spon­taneos to describe these peo le. 
The term' refers to brave Spaniards at bullfights who jump out of the crowds for a chance to fight the bull. Cur­rently Plimpton is working on a book which looks at these spontaneos whose actions in­evitably change their lives forever. 
Plimpton paralleled the spontaneos to his own life. As an undergrad at Harvard trying to pass initiation into the Lampoon Club, he jumped out of the crowd at the New York 


Late Night Olympics 
By JENNIFER GRONER Staff Reporter 
Sally Derengoski, assistant director of Non-Varsity Ath­letics, addressed the Hall Pres­ident's Council Tuesday night about the Late Night Olympics, which will be held Friday, Jan. 29 from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
The Late Night Olympics is a fund raiser held in the Joyce ACC in which students are in­vited to sign up and participate in events such as a dunking tank, sock hop, water !acrose, arena football, relay races, and wiffleball. A fee is charged for participation in events, and all profits are donated to the St. Joseph Special Olympics, said marathon. "I entered one-and­a-half blocks from the finish, just behind the leader," he said. "He beat me by a step." Plimpton was discovered as an impostor in the race, but it marked the beginning of his career of "entering other people's occupations." 
Inspiration for this career came from Paul Galico, a sports writer for the New York Herald. "The first thing you learn as a journalist is to get as close to the subject as you 
Derengoski. 
The Olympics were very suc­cessful last year, and the NVA hopes to make it an annual event, Derengoski added. 
The Alumni Association has offered to donate a grand prize for the Olympics. This prize will be awarded in addition to or possibly in place of the cash prize given last year. 
Teams were given the option of competing for this cash prize last year by donating $100. The team with the most partici­pants received the money donated by the other teams who competed. 
Derengoski said the NVA will attempt to organize more co­recreational games this year so 


People protest mayor selection 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Thousands of chanting demonstrators gath­ered outside City Hall on Tues­day evening in a bid to stall the vote on a successor to the late Mayor Harold Washington, but the front-running candidate blocked action on a lawsuit that also sought to stall the vote. 
The council meeting was delayed as Alderman Eugene Sawyer --considered the front­runner for the acting mayor post --and Alderman Tim Evans, the other leading con­tender, met in private to try to iron out the dispute over lead­ership that added another page to Chicago's tangled political history. 
Outside City Hall, a crowd police estimated at 5,000, many of them Evans supporters, had gathered, some yelling, "Remember Harold! No deals!" Many carried signs with messages such as "No More Uncle Toms" and "Don't Sell the Legacy." 
Earlier in the day, the coun­cil eulogized Washington in an atmosphere thick With politicalintrigue as aldermen twisted arms and counted votes in the battle to succeed the city's first black mayor. Both the leading contenders for the acting mayor position are black, but at least one white alderman also sought the post. 
The lawsuit by the Better Government Association, filed in Cook County Circuit Court an hour before the council's special meeting was to begin, alleged that City Council mem­bers had violated the state's Open Meetings Act by holding several closed-door meetings in the past six days to discuss selecting an acting mayor. 
It asked the court to issue a temporary injunction barring the council meeting because any decision on electing an act­ing mayor would be made "wit­hout open discussion and on the basis of discussions previously held in secret." 
The suit was immediately referred to Circuit Judge Sop­hia Hall, who opened a hearing on the suit as the scheduled time of the council meeting ap­proached. 
Sawyer's attorneys re­quested a different judge hear the case --a request Hall was required to grant under state law. The case will be reas­signed Wednesday. 

can," said Plimpton. "Galico 
climbed down out of the pres­
sbox to enter the ring against 
Joe Dempsey, play tennis 
against Bill Johnson and play 
golf against Bobby Jones." 
Galico eventually wrote a book 
recounting those experiences 
entitled "Farewell to Sports." 
With the blessings of Sports 

Illustrated, Plimpton managed 
to become a quarterback for 
the Detroit Lions and Bal­
see PLIMPTON, page 7 


returns 
that the Olympics will be more 
attractive to students as a so­
cial event. 
Men and women's resident 
halls will be combined into 
teams with roughly equal num­
bers. 
Derengoski spoke about the need for good communication between the NVA and the stu­dents as well as between the individual halls which compose each team so that some of the confusion which existed last year can be avoided. 
Jack Bland, director of fire safety, also spoke to the HPC and showed a film which em­phasized the dangers of fire and the need for fire safety practices. 
.... 
a e 2 The Observer Wednesday, December 2, 1987 

Let's show Soviets
In Brief 


we want world peace
Injured student Alicia Mark, who was hit by a car Sunday night, has been released from St. Joseph Medical Center. She is recovering in the infirmary. ­The Observer Foreign student enrollment at Notre Dame has increased to 495 students, according to a report by the University's Office of International Student Affairs, up from 445 during the 1986-87 academic year. Sixty-eight countries are represented by foreign students, with 285 from Asian countries. Undergraduate foreign students number 102, with 23 of those business majors and 28 en­gineering majors. -The Observer Father Edward Malloy has been inducted into the local chapter of the national honor society Phi Beta Kappa. In ceremonies held November 24, Malloy was welcomed into the Epsilon of Indiana chapter by its president, Philip Gleason. Malloy then discussed the state of the University. -The Observer Of Interest The Collegiate Jazz Festival is scheduled for the weekend of AprilS and 9, 1988. Anyone interested in joining this year's CJF staff should attend a short organizational meeting in the Student Union Board office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center at 7 tonight. For more information contact David Thornton at 287-6575. -The Ob­server A prayer service for peace in Central America will be held tonight at 7:30 in the Regina chapel to honor the four North American missionaries slain in El Salvador in 1980. -The Observer The Anti-Apartheid Network will be featured on tonight's Campus Perspectives on WVFI-AM 6400. Chris Shank will talk with AAN's co-chairman, Greg Maggetti, and other members. To talk with them, call239-6400. -The Observer Snow volleyball sign-ups will be held in the Student Union Board office today from noon to 5 p.m. Teams should consist of 7 players, two of whom must be women. The tournament is scheduled for January 16 and 17. -The Ob­server Grace Hall debates conclude tonight at 9 in the courtroom of the Law School. The topic will be, "The Pope erred in censoring Catholics who disagreed with Catholic principles." -The Observer Women United for Justice and Peace will have a discussion in the Center for Social Concerns at 7:30 tonight. -The Observer "Ireland Since the 1960s" will the topic of a lecture given by Peter Gunning, Consul General of Ireland, at 3 p.m. tomorrow in the auditorium of Hayes-Healy Hall. -The Observer Any juniorwho did not receive information about Junior Parents Weekend can pick it up on Friday in 307 LaFortune Student Center from noon to 3 p.m. -The Observer Summer service project applications for 1988 may be picked up at the Center for ·Social Concerns during December and January. Application deadline is February 1. -The Observer  
The Observer Is always IQQklng tqr talent. If yqu have any. cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper.  
Oeaign Editor .................. Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Cop11 Editor ..... Julie Collinge Deaign Auiatant . . . . . . . . Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Lo11out .. . . .. .. Laura Manzi LG1tout ataff.... . . . . Karen Voltura Accent Copy Editor............. Mike Restle T11peaette1'1 . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . Becky Gunderman ............................................. Beth Healy ......................................... Dana Jannotta Accent LaJ/out ................ Rachel O'Hara Newa Editor............. Ann Marie Durning TJ/piata.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Catby Haynes C"PPI Editor ...................... Tim O'Keefe ND Da11 Editor ................... Katie Gugle Sport. C"PP/ Editor... . . . . . . . . Theresa Kelly SMC Da11 Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Sport• Wedne1da11 Delign .. Joe Zadrozny Photographer .................. Trey Reymond Sport• Wedne1da11 Editor .. Brian O'Gara ne o...-(USPS $99 2-4000) ia published Monday throqh Friday acepc cluriJIIaam ud YKa&ioa periods. neOll.nw ia published by !be students or !be Uaivcnicy ol Notre O..C ud s.int Mary's CoUcac. Sublaiptioal may be purdlu­ed for S40 per year (US per--)by writitt& nea...-, P.O. BoxQ, Notre DuM. llldiaaa 46SS6. ne o...-ila -a-of ne A111 ciiW rn.. All rcprodudioa ricbts arc ---­ 

It's amazing how quickly Reagan's invitation for General Secretary Gorbachev to address a joint session of Congress has dropped out of the public eye. Reagan's fellow Republicans quickly responded to his offer with a petition demanding that Reagan withdraw his invita­tion. Reagan, having enough trouble battling the Democrats, especially with the Iran-Contra affair hanging over his head, quietly withdrew his invitation. 
It is a disgrace that we are now planning to sign a treaty with the Soviets, yet we still refuse to allow Gorbachev to speak in a joint session. This treaty's significance does not lie in in the reduction of power, since both sides will sustain more than an adequate deterrent. Its sig­nificance lies in the fact that we are finally learning to trust one another. 
Many say that we should never trust the Soviets. It is true that the Soviets would like to see capitalism fail with the rise of the proletarian revolution, resulting in a worldwide communist nation. Most Americans want to see Communism contained and eventually fail un­der the pressure of its own weight. But these are long-term goals, and it is time to leave ideologies behind. 
Both communism and capitalism have their flaws. Capitalism fosters inequity, and com­munism lacks incentives. Both the USA and the Soviet Union have chosen their political sys­tems and must live with the consequences, while trying to correct their weaknesses. 
In the meantime we must learn to live to­gether. Yes, we have completely different po­litical, economic, and social systems, but we have to destroy the wall of mistrust between us and allow a open dialogue of reason to resolve our differences. 
The republicans in Congress have have gone overboard in their conservative zeal. The rea­son we built up the military was to negotiate with the Soviets on an equal level. Now that the Soviets know that we will not accept a position of inferiority, they are willing and even eager to negotiate a settlement on nuclear arms. 
The fear and mistrust have broken down, and both sides are ready to talk --all but the con­servative republicans. They refuse to trust the Soviet Union. These republicans view the Soviet Union as the communist enemy that must be watched at every turn. They cannot accept them as a different people who have a different political, economic, and social system. 
Remember that many people in the Soviet Union have experienced two invasions and are probably more afraid of a war than we are. If these people can show a small degree of trust for us, then we should be willing at least start a dialogue for improving the relations between our countries. 
Many world conflicts have have been ag­gravated by the opposing policies of the Soviet Union and the U.S., with each giving economic and military support to countries that support 
M 

Mike Moran 
~ 
Photog~ pher 

their ideological cause. Since the end of World War II, the U.S. has supported regimes, not because of their respect for the people or the integrity of their leaders, but on the stance they take against communism. 
If the Soviet Union and the U.S. can resolve their differences despite completely opposite political systems, then together they should be able to make a realistic effort at creating world peace. 
Granted, it is a great honor to speak to a joint session of Congress and should not be taken lighty, but there have been many heads of state and VIPs to address a joint session, including Ferdinand Marcos. The republicans are afraid that Gorbachev will use this forum to make a pitch for world peace and possibly make America look bad. 
But this reason does not make sense, since we have seen that if Gorbachev wants to speak to the American people, he can do so anytime by using our free-press as did on Monday in his interview with Tom Brokaw. 
By allowing Gorbachev to speak, the USA would present the image that it is stong and confident enough to allow even the leader of its long-time adversary to speak in its most pres­tigious forum. 
Having General Secretary Gorbachev ad­dress a joint session of Congress would have been momentous step toward breaking down the mistrust and fear that has plagued U.S....Soviet relations. 
,

M M M
,. 

30 SECOND WARNING 
GRACE HALL DEBATES FINAL 
TOPIC: "RESOLVED. THE POPE ERRED IN CENSURING CATHOLICS WHO DISSENT FROM OFFICIAL CHURCH DOCTRINE. 
II 
JUDGE: TO BE ANNOUNCED 
WHEN: TONIGHT 9 P.M. WHERE: GRACE HALL PIT 

COMPLIMENTARY REFRESHMENTS, 
RAFFLE 
COME AND EXPERIENCE THE GRAND FINALE OF ANOTHER YEAR OF EXCELLENCE OF THE GRACE HALL DEBATES. 
Wednesday, December 2, 1987 
The Observer page 3 


Couple committed sucide in plane disappearance probe 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain-A mys­terious Asian couple took suicide pills Tuesday just before being questioned about a South Korean jetliner that disappeared over Burma and may have been bombed. 
Officials said the couple boarded Korean Air flight 858 at Baghdad, Iraq, where it originated Sunday, and got off at Abu Dhabi before the Boeing 707 headed across Asia toward Seoul with 115 people aboard. 
It vanished near the Burma­Thailand border, before a scheduled refueling stop in Bangkok. Officials in Seoul said there were strong suspicions a bomb destroyed the aircraft. 
The man, who appeared to be middle aged, died four hours after biting into a suicide pill concealed in a cigarette, said Takao Natsume, Japan's acting ambassador to Bahrain. He said the woman, who was younger, was unconscious and in critical condition at a mili­tary hospital but will survive. 
They had been waiting to be questioned by immigration of­ficials who stopped them from boarding a Rome-bound flight. The two were believed to be either Japanese or Korean and were traveling on forged Japa­nese passports, apparently as father and daughter. 
"Just after swallowing the pills they both fell on the floor, and their bodies went very stiff," Ambassador Natsume said. 
Both collapsed "in seconds," but the woman apparently sur­vived because she swallowed less of the poison hidden in the cigarette filters, he said. The type of poison was not known. 
Other Japanese sources quoted an embassy official who was present as saying the two were less than fluent in Japan­ese. 
Japanese and Bahraini offi­cials said the couple flew from Baghdad to Abu Dhabi on Flight 858 and caught a Gulf Air plane to Bahrain, a Persian Gulf island state, while the South Korean plane left for Seoul. 
South Korea's government broadcasting service said in­vestigators were checking pos­sible links between the mystery woman and Chosen Soren, an organization of Koreans living 

THE EMPORIUM RESTAURANT 
is hiring 
bus help, food servers 
and experienced kitchen help. flexible hours. 121 South Niles Avenue 
234-9000 & ask for John 
,.•••••••••••••••~ A one-hour negotiating ses-Catholic bishop who helped end 
* sion was 
Kathleen 
Happy 21st Birthday, 

It's about time! * U.S. Justice Department, said ending an eight-day siege Sun­
* the "very businesslike" day at the federal detention ~ negotiations with four inmate center in Oakdale, La., where
* representatives seemed to in-950 Cuban detainees held 26••••••••••••••••·'lr dicate that a dissident minority hostages. 
. did not have as much sway in But he remained in Florida 111111!1111!1111111111~:-, the negotiating process Tues-Tuesday, said a spokeswoman 

r:~•IOA Resort
.-.•"' ountain 
Boyne M ..., zg~31 
J a11 ua~; 
h ee.. 


des a t r 111eals,

fckets,

$160 tee ondo, lift I s ortation· droorn c nd tran p .
be d pool, a 


a heate 

Limited Number Available! 
Tickets will be sold: December 2-3 from 6-8 p.m. December 4 from 2-4 p.m. at the N.D. Senior Class Office 
ADWOBKS 

in Japan that supports commu­ 
nist North Korea.  
An official of the airline said:  
"There is a high possibility that  
the missing plane crashed be­ 
cause of a bomb explosion" be­ 
cause no distress call was  
received from the aircraft. He  
spoke on condition of  
anonymity.  
Burmese officials said there  
was no hint of trouble during  
the last routine radio contact  
with the crew.  
Thai police searching for  
wreckage reported a large  
swath of leveled trees in moun­ 
tains along the border. Airline  
chairman Cho Choong-hoon,  
accompanying seven Korean  
investigators, reported seeing  
a "gray spot" in the same area  
but would not speculate on  
what it was.  
Security sources in Bahrain  
said investigators were also  
checking on possible ties be­ 
tween the couple and the Japa­ 
nese Red Army terrorist group,  
but Natsume said he had no  
evidence of such a connection.  Release AP Photo  
The Japanese Red Army has had links to various Middle  . . Patrick Woods gets a hug after be1ng released by Cuban pnsoners. The  
East terrorist groups and to  standoff was resolved at the Louisiana prison, but hostages are still  
North Korea.  being held in the Alabama prison. See story below.  





Inmates must unite before bishop ; s allowed to negotiate 
negotiators that marked previ-Associated Press ous talks, Korten said. He 
ATLANTA -Negotiators for declined to elaborate. 1,110 Cuban inmates holding He stressed that federal hostages at a federal prison negotiators did not know if the reached "substantial agree-dissidents' influence had ment" with government repre-waned enough for an agree­sentatives Tuesday on a num-ment to be reached. ber of issues, a government Earlier Tuesday, federal of-spokesman said. ficials had said a Cuban-born 
"considerably more the prison siege in Louisiana
* 
encouraging than others we would not join in Atlanta

* 
have had over the last few negotiations until the detainees ~ days," the department said in united and chose leaders. 

* 
a statement. Roman Catholic Auxiliary

* 
The inmate leaders took the Bishop Agustin Roman of

* 
proposals to the rest of the Miami, a native of Cuba, said ~ detainees, who are fighting he was willing to help in

* 
plans to deport them back to negotiations with the men who

* 
Cuba, and another negotiating burned three buildings and ~ session was scheduled for later took 90 prison workers hostage 

* 
in the day, the department after taking over the prison

* 
said. Nov. 23. ~ Patrick Korten, deputy A videotaped message from

* 
director of public affairs for the Roman has been credited with 


day as they have had in the for the archdiocese. past. Until Tuesday's reports of 
"This one (session) did not progress, a group of at least 100 have the grandstanding and Cubans had repeatedly blocked role-playing" by inmate efforts on behalf of the other 
~"'o..loo......,......,"""-"""-"""-"""-M"""-MMM,....,MMMN'IN'IriY'l/YoriY'l~· 
SNOW VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 
-play on the quad-in the snow -January 16-1 7 -during Winterfest week -7 person teams including 2 warne 
(no varsity players allowed) -Sign-ups December 2 & 3 in SUB office from 12-5 pm
· -limited to 32 teams -$2 per team 
PRIZES 
inmates to reach a settlement 
and release their hostages. 
Michael Quinlan, director of 
the federal Bureau of Prisons, 
said in Washington that the 
hard-liners were mostly 
younger than the majority of 
the detainees. "They're just 
less desirous of coming to any 
kind of agreement regardless 
of what the government might 
offer under the circumstances. 
They are less willing to reason 
as people of all types generally 
can reason things out. 
"These individuals are 
having difficulty reasoning 
anything out." 
The inmates did agree Mon­day that double murderer Thomas Silverstein, consid­ered the most dangerous of the non-Cuban inmates at the pen, should leave the riot-torn insti­tution. The prisoners, who originally had freed Silverstein from his maximum security
cell, bound him in handcuffs and shackles and left him for federal officials Monday night. 
Silverstein, convicted of kil­
ling two inmates and a prison guard, was transferred early Tuesday to the federal prison in Leavenworth, Kan. One of his convictions was over­turned. 
"He was and is a threat to any individual whether prison staff or fellow inmate in a federal prison setting,'' Korten said. 
Six more Cubans surren­dered Tuesday, bringing to 284 the number who have turned themselves in since the siege began. Prison officials also have 176 Americans back in custody. 

~ingAdvice ..··~ 

can sen(§ .. 
alife ~ 
....
..... 

-~-~-------~~--~--~-----------------------------..... ....... 
Wednesday, December 2, 1987

a e 4 The Observer 


Silent moment law rejected 
Associated Press 

likely will continue to be, politi­created when Justice Lewis cally charged. And it is likely Powell retired last June. 
WASHINGTON -The Su­that a case testing the validity Little is known about Ken­preme Court on Tuesday of another state's moment-of­nedy's church-state views. refused to let New Jersey pro­silence law will reach the high In other decisions, the jus­vide moments of silence for court. tices: public school stu~en.ts but ga~e "The constitutional issue is -Ruled unanimously in a Vir­no hint whether similar laws m still a live question," said ginia case watched closely by other states impermissibly Steven McDowell of the environmental groups across promote school prayer. Milwaukee-based Catholic the nation that only govern­
The court ruled unanimously League for Religious and Civil ment regulators may sue in­that the New Jersey legislators Rights, which had urged the dustrial polluters for past vio­who sought to press the contro­court to uphold the New Jersey lations of the federal Clean versy in court no longer have law. Water Act. the proper legal standing. "I expect that some other 
The ruling therefore said state's law will be reviewed by -Voted 8-0 in a case from nothing about the con­the high court. With a new jus­Louisiana to narrow the power stitutionality of a 1982 New Jer­tice joining the court, I believe of federal judges to overrule sey law that said students may we will see that law being up­labor arbitrators' decisions use the daily silent moments held," McDowell said. "I was deemed to be against public "for quiet and private con­concerned the current court policy. templation or introspection." might be evenly divided on the About half the states have issue, which would have upheld -Ruled unanimously in an­similar laws. the lower court's ruling." other Louisiana case that the 
A federal appeals court President Reagan has asked Federal Deposit Insurance struck down the New Jersey the Senate to confirm Anthony Corp., a government agency, law, ruling that it violated the Kennedy, a conservative may collect debts owed to constitutionally required federal appeals court judge failed banks it takes over even separation of church and state. from Sacramento, Calif., to fill when the banks misled the bor­
The issue has been, and most the Supreme Court vacancy rowers. 
Snowbound The Observer I Trey Raymond 
Father Sorin's statue stands solitarily, silently seeing few light snowfalls so far this year, they will soon snow slowly settle. Although there have only been a become both more frequent and less welcome. 
Joan Rivers sues GQ for $50 million 
Associated Press 

100 percent false," Miss Rivers an immediate and total retrac­
LOS ANGELES-Comedian said at a news conference, in tion of the article. Joan Rivers said Tuesday she tears and flanked by attorney will file a $50 million libel suit Bob Chapman and daughter A spokeswoman for GQ in against Gentlemen's Quarterly Melissa Rosenberg. New York, who spoke on con­
magazine and the author of dition she not be identified, said 
what she called "a vicious ar­She said the magazine ad­the magazine would make no ticle" that said she had wished mitted Tuesday morning that statement until court papersher husband dead prior to his the name of the author, Bert had been received. suicide. Hacker, was a pseudonym. She 
said she was offering a $5,000 
The story in GQ's December reward for anyone who would Miss Rivers said she wouldissue, which also quoted her as provide the real name of the use whatever money she might saying her marriage to Edgar author to her p1,1blicist, Richard win to create a fund for victims Rosenberg had been near an Grant. 
of libel who do not have theend, "is not just inaccurate, but Miss Rivers also demanded money to defend themselves. 

Author of 'Go Tell it 
on the Mountain' dies 
Associated Press writers of the 20th century . . . I think that he will be
ST. PAUL DE VENCE, remembered for hisFrance-Black author James courage, an incredibleBaldwin, who became an ar­courage, at once to see andticulate and sometimes then the courage to say what angry voice decrying racism he saw." 
in the United States through The newspaper Le Mondehis novels, plays and poetry, described him as "a con­died in the hilltop town on science in revolt."
the Mediterranean where he In the early 1960s, he · took refuge ''from the mad­argued that blacks must ness of America." 
save whites from their ownBaldwin, 63, died of self-destructive insen­stomach cancer on Monday sitivity. In the 1970s, henight, his publisher said. 

urged that blacks seizeHis best known works in­power from whites.

cluded "Go Tell It on the "Black people don'tMountain," his first novel, believe anything whitepublished in 1953; "Notes of people say anymore,"a Native Son," "Evidence of Baldwin said in an interview Things Not Seen," and most with The Associated Press inrecently, "Harlem Quar­
1983.
tet." 
Baldwin's only FrenchFrance was Baldwin's literary prize came pos­adopted country, and he thumously. The Associationlived here for 40 years, the for the Renewal of Franco­last 16 in St. Paul de Vence. 

American Friendship onFor the man who once urged Tuesday awarded its firstblacks to go out and kill prize to Baldwin for his con­whites, France was "a ref­tribution to arts and letters, uge away from the madness business and politics.

of America." 
In 1986, President Fran­His life here, he once said, cois Mitterrand named him"was an ongoing love af­to the Legion of Honor,fair." 

France's highest honor.

In Chicago, the Rev. Jesse "Getting this award fromJackson called Baldwin "a the country that I adoptedgreat source of inspiration means France has adoptedfor that generation . . . a me," Baldwin later said. 
prolific and sensitive writer . . . a great advocate of per­Baldwin was born on Aug. sonal and racial freedom." 2, 1924 in Harlem, the son of 
Maya Angelou, author of a preacher. The eldest of "I Know Why The Caged nine children, he grew up Bird Sings," said in a tele­amid growing racial ten­phone interview, "I spoke to sions, fear and hatred. His him the day after Thanks­father ordained him as a giving ... We laughed to­minister when he was 12, but gether, reminded each other he later lost his faith. how much we loved each His concern for blacks in other. the United States never 
"I think he will be remem­wavered, although his ad­bered as one of the great vo_cacy of violence waned. 
SENIORSENIORSENIOR 
CHRISTMAS FORMAL FRIDAY DEC 4th 
·· ·SENIORSENIORSENIOR·· · 
Mitchells Club $15 per couple 
9-2 a.m. 

Tickets on Sale Tues & Wed 2-4 in class office., 

Wednesday, December 2, 1987 
The Observer 







Security Beat 
Tuesday, November 24 
2:30 p.m. A resident of St. Joseph's
Hall reported the loss of his wallet J
12:30 p.m. AMorrissey Hall resident around the Law School on Thanksgiving
reported that his car was vandalized Day.
while it was parked in the D6 lot. 4:50p.m. Security issued a citation to 
Damage estimate is unknown. a Bedford, Indiana resident for speeding
3:10 p.m. An off-campus student re-?n .Ivy Road. He was driving 61 m.p.h.
ported that his car was vandalized while m a 30 m.p.h. zone. 
it was parked in the D6 lot between 8 10:30 p.m. Aset of 3keys was turned 
a.m. and 2 p.m. Damage to his car is into an officer at the Main Gate. 
estimated at $200. 
Monday, November 30 Thursday, November 26 9 a.m. ASorin Hall resident reported
12:20 p.m. ADillon Hall resident re-vandalism to his rental car. Damage is 
ported that his car was vandalized while estimated at $150. 
it was parked in the B1lot. 12:30 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident re­
3: 15 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re-ported the theft of her purse from her 
ported the loss of his wallet in the Stepan room on Friday November 27. Her 
parking lot. His loss is estimatd at $185. validine card was later confiscatedfrom 
a student who tried to use it at the South Friday, November 27 Dining Hall. 
'" l(f/ll
AP Photo

1:10 p.m. Aresident of Breen Phillips 
Election-day massacre 
2 a.m. Two students were ap-Hall was co~tact~d by Security for im­prehended for illegally entering the pro~rly regJstermg her car. . 
Rescue workers remove a man wounded in the mas­and the military junta called off the elections. Tensions 
South Dining Hall. .1.30 p.m. _A South Bend. resident was 
sacre at a voting station in Port Au Prince, Haiti. Over remain high in Haiti. See story below.
10:15 p.m. Security issed a citation to cited for domg 40 f!l·P·h. m a posted 25 
twenty people were killed in election-day violence,
a resident of Mishawaka for driving 61 m.p.h. zone on Jumper Road. 
m.p.h. in a 25 m.p.h. zone on Juniper 2p.m. An off-campus st~dent reported
Road an attemped theft from h1s car that was 
· parked in Green field. 
• HaitiArmy allowing chaos 1n

Saturd N b 28 3:35 p.m. South Bend Police notified 
ay• ovem er Security to assist them with the investi­gation of a burglary which occurred in 
Associated Press solved electoral council same crowd--Namphy --is in
12:_51 a.m. Several c~rs in the D6 the city. 
remained in hiding. charge. That would just make contents stolen between 11:26 p.m. on ~ere apprehended for shooting
parkmg lot were vandaliZed and their 7:45 p.m. Two off-campus students 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -As the polls opened Sunday, a mockery of democratic elec­
November 27 and 12:50 a.m. on Novem-fireworks out of their car in the Hes-
U.S. observers on Tuesday at least 34 people were killed tions ... but I fear the Reagan
ber 28. burgh Library Circle. 
blamed the army for the terror and 75 wounded when gunmen administration would support Sunday, November 29 Tuesday, December 1 
campaign that thwarted elec­and soldiers set fire to polling that." tions, and some leading stations, confiscated ballots 
11:30 a.m.. S~curity apprehended a 2:40p.m. Astudent reported a hit and 
presidential candidates vowed and attacked voters with guns He said he and his team were
~tudent for dnvmg on-campus under the :un accident to his car that was parked 
to boycott any balloting super­and machetes. shot at twice Sunday by gun­
mfluence of alcohol. m the C1 lot. Damage is esimated at 
$200. 
vised by the military-led junta. Independent election obser­men as soldiers watched with­Calls increased for multina­vers said safe, fair elections out responding. tional intervention to oversee cannot take place if they are "There is a great consensus

Economy is encouraging 
national elections the govern­administered by the military­among the Haitian people and ment claims it still intends to dominated junta led by Lt. Gen. leaders that a multinational in­hold before a Feb. 7 deadline. Henri Namphy, and Haitians tervention is a solution," added would never trust the results. White, who left for the United Most Haitians distrust the Election observer Robert States on a plane chartered by 
despite slight decline 
Associated Press While not discounting the im­government, which dissolved White, a former U.S. ambassa­the U.S. embassy. The plane,pact the stock market collapse the autonomous Provisional dor to El Salvador, told carrying election observers,WASHINGTON -The govern­could have on consumer confi­Electoral Council Sunday after reporters Tuesday that the mil­reporters and other Americansment said Tuesday its main dence, many economists said voter-targeted violence made itary was responsible for the stranded by canceled commer­economic forecasting gauge the performance of the leading it call off the nation's first free election turmoil, and said he cial flights, landed later in theedged down 0.2 percent in Oc­index supported their belief elections in 30 years. favored multinational inter­day in Miami.
tober, the first setback in nine that the country is headed for Meanwhile, the streets of this vention.
months. But analysts took the slower growth next year but no impoverished capital of 1 mil­"During the night, the mili­A member of the electoralmodest decline --in the face of recession. 
lion began to show signs of life tary abandoned the streets to council denied chargesthe stock market plunge --as In a second report Tuesday, Tuesday, although schools and terrorists. During the day the Namphy made in disbanding
an encouraging signal the eco­the Commerce Department some businesses stayed closed. military collaborated with the the body Sunday and said it still
nomy may avoid a recession said construction spending fell Leading presidential candi­terrorists," he said. "There is had the people's complete
next year. 0.5 percent in October to a dates and members of the dis-no sense having elections if the trust.
The Commerce Depart-seasonally adjusted annual ment's Index of Leading In­rate of $407.9 billion. It was the dicators showed broadbased first decline since March and 

Space station contruction
strength in a variety of areas was led by big drops in spend­and would have been up a ing for new factories and shop­sizable 0.9 percent if not for the ping centers. 
contract winners announced
drop in stock prices. Analysts predicted further The government also revised weakness in construction in the 
Associated Press "The best minds in the nation The space station plans call
the September leading index months ahead as residential went to work on this project, for a permanently mannedupward to show it unchanged construction is depressed by WASHINGTON -NASA and all of the proposals we base in earth orbit that wouldrather than down 0.1 percent high mortgage rates and high 

as first reported. apartment vacancy rates. 
December Graduates ... 

LET'S TALK GRADUATE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AT 




··-· 
Ill 

12 MBA specializations ranging from Accounting to Telecommunications Management. 
Start in January 1988 as a full-time student and you can still qualify for the summer '88 internship option. 

ASK ABOUT: 
• 
Part-time MBA study in Chicago and Chicago area suburbs 

•
Other graduate business programs including 


MSOR. Master of Public Admimstrat1or and PhD IJH 
FOR INFORMATION: 
School of Busmess Admin1strat1on 
I ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 1 11__31~/567-6973 ----------------·­
named four companies on received were outstanding," be in operation in the mid-Tuesday as winners of billions said James Fletcher, the ad­1990s. The station would in­of dollars in contracts for con­ministrator of the National clude four habitable modules, struction of a space station, the Aeronautics and Space Admin­two to be provided by the next major step for U.S. explo­istration. United States and one each by
ration and use of space. Competing proposals were Japan and by the European
The contracts may eventu­submitted for two of the con­Space Agency.ally be valued at $6.5 billion and tracts, but the winning firms, NASA has told Congress the could provide about 12,000 jobs, Fletcher said, "were clearly total cost of the station would officials said. !0:111'\o:>r;nr " 
the $14.6 billion. 
Boeing was awarded a con­tract for what is called Work Package 1. NASA said the pro­posed cost for that package in the first phase of the station is about $750 million. If a phase II option is added later, another $25 million would be tacked onto the contract. 
The unsuccessful bidder for Work Package 1 was a team led by Martin Marietta Corp. of New Orleans.

Whatever the occasion--Work Package 1 includes the we'll decorate a cake that's right! space station laboratory and -birthda.YS -anniversarieS liYing modules, along with en­
vironmental controls and life

-victory parties -friendly gatherings support systems."th 1 111 1;2 h t McDonnell Douglas won the
FREE DELIVERY W1 Jl"t or S ee contract for Work Package 2 cake order call 23MAI2-8219 with a proposed cost of $1.9 bil-D~ A}NTY D lion in phase I and $140 million 
~ for the phase II option. The unsuccessful bidder for 
Don"-~~~~:r~shw~ll~g~hM~PIIanrdk B A let:' S'V\p Work Package 2 was a team 
'-'= :J-\.1.~ .tt\J led by Rockwell International
I 

~iiiiii~~iiiiii~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil Corp. of Downey, Calif. 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, December 2, 1987 
(
!r 
,. 

NBC News anchorman Tom Brokaw, left, interviews bachev's intensive pre-summit publicity campaign the Soviet Union's General Secretary Mikhail Gor­with appearances of his own. See stories right and bachev at the Kremlin. The interview was broadcast below. Monday. President Reagan is trying to counter Gor-
Talk about Gorbachev's wife from NBC interview censored in Soviet Union 
Associated Press ciety, and his answers on such The Associated Press com­sensitive topics such as the So­pared an English-language 
MOSCOW -Soviet television viet military presence in Af­text of the interview provided on Tuesday broadcast the NBC ghanistan and Jewish emigra­by NBC news with the Soviet news interview with Mikhail tion were broadcast in full. TV program that was broad­Gorbachev in which he dis­But traditionally the families cast at 9 p.m., the time of the cussed arms control, human of Communist Party leaders popular nightly news program rights and Afghanistan, but it are little-known and seldom "Vremya." censored the indication he talks seen. Mrs. Gorbachev's stylish Near the end of the NBC text, about top government affairs clothes and frequent appear­anchorman Tom Brokaw with his wife. ances by her husband's side asked: "We've all noticed the 
The deletion of the brief ex­has caused some grumbling in conspicuous presence of Mrs. change about Raisa Gorbachev Soviet society. Gorbachev in your travels. Do in the hour-long interview con­She plans to accompany her you go home in the evening and ducted at the Kremlin on Sat­husband next week on his trip discuss with her national urday was an indication of how to the United States where he policies, political difficulties 
sensitive her high profile is in will sign an agreement with and so on in this country?" Soviet society. President Reagan eliminating Gorbachev has promoted the superpowers' medium­"We discuss everything," greater openness in Soviet so-range nuclear missiles. Gorbachev responded. 
provide entertainment. Each winner may take up to Hetterich urged the board three guests with her, but she

Board 
members to encourage ticket must be present Friday eve­sales since the proceeds will be ning to win. The cost of the

continued from page 1 
used to fund the cost of the ski raffle tickets is one dollar. Ad­the process of opening the li­trips. She added that the num­mission to hear the Famous brary earlier without having to ber of trips to be raffled off has Vacationers is free. extend the hours of the regular not yet been decided. 
staff. "We're really excited about In other business, Hetterich 
The library staff said the pro­both the entertainment and the said that the Board will sponsor cedure of opening the library trip itself. We hope everyone a showing of the films "A in the morning is too compl­will take advantage of a good Christmas Carol" and "It's a icated to delegate to student chance to relax and enjoy Wonderful Life" next Wednes­workers. Another meeting has themselves before finals really day evening in the gameroom been scheduled before hit us," said Hetterich. of Haggar Center. Christmas break to further dis­cuss the issue. 
In other business, the board announced that fully paid weekend ski trips will be 
• Group Charters & Tours • Card Tables 

raffled away at a special event 
• Restrooms • Radios 

to take place this Friday eve­
• Your DESIGNATED Driver • Tape Players 

ning from 8:30 to 11 p.m. in the Haggar Student Center. Periodically throughout the 
CARDINAL 

evening, raffle tickets will be 
CHARTERS & TOURS

drawn to award ski trips to Swiss Valley the weekend of 
287·8677

Feb. 6 and 7. Hetterich said the 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617

band Family Vacationers will 
WANT TO DO BETTER ON FINALS? 
Let GARY CONRADI teach you 
self-hypnosis techniques which are 
guaranteed to increase your test scores! 


*reduce test anx ety & tension *reauce study ttr, 1e *increase memor 1 capacity *develop 'photogt 3phtc' memory skills 
SHOW: Mon. Dec. 7, 1:00 P.M. Wa<hington Hall SEMINARS: To Be A. 'llOUnced ~;';~.:;m• Room.
2 

Reagan says more agreements needed 
Associated Press 
on what Reagan said was a 
need for religious freedom and 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. other reforms in the Soviet President Reagan pledged on Union. Tuesday to "keep right on One student also asked marching" toward further Reagan to defend his "Star arms agreements after next Wars" space-based missile week's expected treaty sig­defense plan, prompting the ning, but he said the United president to compare it to "a States must not be lulled into a gigantic gas mask." new period of detente allowing Reagan recalled that gas a secret Soviet military build­masks were retained after up. poison gas was outlawed. The 
Less than a week before his Strategic Defense Initiative, he summit meeting with Soviet said, was "a gigantic gas mask leader Mikhail Gorbachev, and maybe . . . the thing that Reagan had harsh words for could bring about the end of nu­that period of broadly im­clear missiles." proved relations with the So­The president made no refer­viet Union. ence in his speech to Gorbac­
"More than a decade ago, hev's hour-long NBC television there was a warming in U.S.­interview on Monday night. Soviet affairs that we called Asked what he thought of the 'detente.' But while talking Soviet leader's presentation, friendship, the Soviets worked Reagan said, "I have had a even faster on the largest mil­respect for him ever since I itary buildup in world history. met him." They stepped up their aggres­When one student asked if sion around the world. They be­Reagan was worried that Gor­came more repressive at bachev's apparent popularity home. We do not want mere in the West would make the words. This time we're after American people more recep­true peace," Reagan said. tive to communism, the presi­
"In the excitement of the dent replied, "I have more summit, the treaty signing and faith in the American people all the rest, we must not forget than that." that peace means more than As for his own feelings, arms reduction," he said. Reagan said, "I don't resent his 
In a speech to high school popularity or anything else." seniors and their parents in The president, referring to his Jacksonville Veterans' days as an actor, joked, "Good Memorial Coliseum, Reagan Lord,. I co-starred with Errol said he and Gorbachev will Flynn once." "have words about Soviet ex­When another student asked pansionism" during their three the president what advice he days of meetings in Washing­would like to give to Gorbac­ton. hev, Reagan replied, "To 
And he told one of the stu­really stick to his program of dents during a question-and­glasnost," or more openness in answer session later that in his society, and "to make their talks with Gorbachev he might country like ours --a place that find himself "bending his ear" people don't want to leave." 
An Tostal Executive Committee 
Be a part of the most exciting event 
of the Spring Semester! Applications available on 2nd floor LaFortune. Interviews will 
begin the next week. 

Ill 
% 
1­
WEDNESDAY 
D0"'1E~Tl(. D~AFT  so•  
GIN ~o TONlC  75~  
THURSDAY  

Tickets available at th door Se~inars free Sponsored by SUB 


Wednesday, December 2, 1987 

The Observer 1 Trey Raymond 

Video violence 
Trying to add a bit of excitement to the sometimes staid scene on campus, freshman Dan Genovese engages in an orgy of meaningless violence, killing scores of people in Rolling Thunder. 
Plimpton 
continued from page 1 
timore Colts, a pitcher in a 
post-season all-star baseball 
game, and a challenger to light­
heavyweight champion Archie 
Moore. 
Plimpton did not restrict his 
occupation-jumping to sports. 
He played percussion for the 
New York Philharmonic under 
conductor Leonard Bernstein. 
The pressure was greater in 
this job than in sports, he ex­
plained, because "in music, 
you cannot make a mistake." 
He ended the lecture explain­ing where he got the idea for the now infamous Sidd Fynch story which appeared as an April Fool's joke in Sports Il­lustrated. 
"The predecessor was a story in the London Observer which told the story of a Japa­nese marathon runner ... who thought that a marathon was 26 days long, not 26 miles. A Cambridge friend sent it to me, and I believed it until Jerry Tact, an editor at SI, saw that the date on the article was Aprill." 

The Observer page 7 
Supreme Court nominee Kennedy talks to committee 
significant numbers of women the beginning of his confirma­Associated Press and blacks, and he didn't want tion hearings Dec. 14. 
WASHINGTON -Supreme his membership to be an issue He told how, as a private at­
Court nominee Anthony Ken­in Senate consideration of his torney, he represented the poor 
nedy complained to the Senate nomination. at times but concentrated on 
Judiciary Committee on Tues­He said he has employed 35 representing corporate clients 
day about judges who become law clerks while on the 9th U.S. as their lawyer and lobbyist. 
active policymakers and open circuit Court of Appeals, in­Some of the companies were 
the way to rulings reflecting cluding five women but no fighting accusations of pollut­
personal biases. blacks. ing the air and water. 
But Kennedy, in written Kennedy, 51, is President Kennedy's financial dis­
responses to a committee ques­Reagan's third nominee to fill closure statement listed assets 
tionnaire, also said that while the vacancy created by the re­of $690,250, including the 
courts should not overstep, tirement of Justice Lewis $400,000 value of his 
judges should exhibit "com­Powell last June. The first, Sacramento home. Liabilities, 
passion, warmth, sensitivity," Robert Bork, was defeated including a $195,000 mortgage, 
in their rulings. after a majority of senators totaled $221,000 for a net worth 
The appellate judge from said his views on constitutional of $469,250. 
Sacramento, Calif., also said protections were too ideologi­Before his elevation to the 
"real harm" can result from cally narrow. The second bench in 1975, Kennedy's 
private clubs that dis­nominee, Douglas Ginsburg, clients included a well-known 
criminate. withdrew from consideration liquor distiller, Schenley Indus­
Kennedy said he resigned in after admitting he smoked ma­tries Inc. ; a large independent 
October from the Del Paso rijuana in the 1960s and 1970s. gas producer, Capitol Oil Corp; 
Country Club of Sacramento The committee's question­the California Association of 
and the Olympic Club of San naire gave Kennedy a chance Dispensing Opticians, and 
Francisco because they lacked to paint a self-portrait prior to Capitol Records Inc. 
Judge: Donor with AIDS not murderer 
Associated Press 

Markowski did not understand Coen said he was not pleased LOS ANGELES -Attempted the judge's ruling and asked at having to throw out the at­murder charges against a man that his client be transferred tempted murder counts but 
. ' 

who sold his AIDS-infected from jail to a psychiatric said he was bound by the law, blood were dismissed Tuesday facility. which requires a specific intent by a judge who said to commit murder--a standard prosecutors failed to show that Markowski, identified by that had not been met. He also the defendant intended to kill, authorities as a male pros­threw out a charge of assault as required by law. titute, has tested positive for with a deadly weapon. 
Joseph Markowski still faces antibodies to the deadly AIDS However, the judge ruled trial on two lesser charges. virus but has not manifested that sufficient evidence exists 
Markowski stared straight symptoms of the disease itself. to try Markowski on two lesser ahead blankly when Superior co~nts of attempted poisoning, Court Judge Ronald Coen O'Brien said he did not know which carry a possible maxi­issued his ruling. if Markowski's deteriorating mum sentence of three years. 
Defense attorney Guy mental state was a result of Coen set trial on those charges O'Brien said he believed AIDS. for Jan. 6. 
FIGHTING  AUTOGRAPH PARTY FOR JOSEPH DOYLE  
Thursday Afternoon Dec. 3rd 2 to 4 p.m.  
ACENTURY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TEXT BY JOSEPH DOYlE  2nd Floor Book Dept. Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore  

I: 
\' 'I 
Accent

page 8 
Wednesday, December 2, 1987 
Professor/poet enjoys ND's improved audience 

KIM YURATOVAC Assistant Accent Editor 

Us bearded face and poeti­
llcally articulate voice corre­
spond with John Matthias' 
image as an artist. As Notre 
Dame's poet-In-residence, Mat­
thias has already published I 0 
works, including poetry, 
critques and translations, and 
has three more books to be 
released this spring. 
It has rarely been possible to Jive on a poet's salary. William Carlos Williams also worked as a doctor, Wallace Stevens moonlighted as an Insurance salesman, and John Matthias is a professor. 
To Matthias, his position as a professor is much more than a job. "''m deadly serious about my teaching." said Matthias, "that's why I don't try to write poetry and teach at the same time. But I am here teaching because I'm a poet." 
Matthias arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of 1967, but since then he has been divid­ing his time between South Bend and England. "My wife is English and I spend almost all of my writing time in England, sometimes full and half years and summers there. But I al­ways come back here." 
The English countryside and an increased amount of free time Inspire a great deal of his work. Although much of his poetry is born in the English style, Matthias considers him­self an American poet. "It an­noys me that I'm sometimes reviewed as an English poet." he said. "I am an American poet who has lived quite a lot in England but the 'American­ness' of the writing should be evident to anyone who reads the books with care. I consider myself to be an American poet with British Influences." 
Since much of his work con­centrates on the British, Mat­thias wrote one his poems in his upcoming "Places-Poems" about the St. Joseph River area to prove to himself and his readers that he is still a dedi­cated American. "I intentionally wrote about the St. Joseph River so I could prove to myself I could do it. I became worried that I couldn't write an American poem In American society. Now I proved to myself that I can." 
Matthias integrates the tal­ents of his two professions so that they complement each other well, and he separates them so that he can immerse himself in one discipline at a time. "When I'm in England, I'm not teaching and can devote 100 percent of my at-
Calvin and Hobbes 
tention to writing. For a variety of complicated and simple reasons, writing and teaching don't go too well together. first. there is the time element. And some of the pressures I release in writing are also released in teaching. 
"Writing poetry is life and death. fundamental to my life. If I couldn't teach, I could do something else, but I couldn't not write poetry. Teaching is an honest way to make a living but. there's no question that I consider myself a poet first and a teacher second." 
Matthias teaches a 300-level introductory poetry writing course and a Modern British Studies class to undergradua­tes. He also teaches a graduate poetry writing class. His Modern British Studies class attempts to integrate literature, visual arts and music. "I reach a point where I find it inappro­priate to isolate the arts. I draw analogies to music and poetry of the same period." 
Although he admits there has been a decrease in the number of students interested in poetry at Notre Dame, Matthias recog­nizes an improved quality of audience. "In the 1960's, there was a large and passionate audience for poetry here and elsewhere. It was a protest cul­ture, a counterculture. It was not an audience for poetry but an audience for anything that was happening. After the col­lapse of the protest culture, the poetry bubble burst. and the audience was reduced in num­bers but was Intensified be­cause of its quality. There has been a more appropriate, ed­ucated audience since the 
1970's. The Sophomore Literary festival has a lot to do with this." 
The "more appropriate, ed­ucated" Notre Dame audience has followed Matthias through his poetry, criticism and trans­lation. Aside from translating short poems from Spanish and French, Matthias has co­translated a volume called "Contemporary Swedish Poetry" with Goran Printz-Pahlson and recently collaborated on the Serbo-Croatian "The Battle of Kosovo" with fellow Notre Dame professor Vladeta Vuck­ovic. 
Although he speaks neither Swedish nor Serbo-Croatian, Matthias enjoys co-translating these languages. "There is something oddly attractive about working 'with col­laborators on something so pagan and mysterious," he noted. 
"The Battle of Kosovo" is a collection of heroic ballads of Serbian folk poetry com­
memorating the Serbian Em­
pire's defeat at the hands of 
the Turks in the late 14th cen­
tury. "I have always wanted to 
translate an epic," added Mat­
thias, "and I chose this one 
because I was dissatisfied with 
the other translations." 
"The Battle of Kosovo," along with "Places-Poems" and "David Jones: Man and Poet" will be released this spring. "Places-Poems" Is a a collection of two of his latest historical poems focusing on the river areas of East Anglia, England and the St. Joseph Valley, In­diana. The poems examine the historical, geographical, topological and geological is­sues of the areas. 
"David Jones: Man and Poet" is a study of one of the poets who has most influenced Mat­thias. Matthias published an­other study of Jones in 1980 entitled "Introducing David 
Jones." 
Recently the direction of my work has been perfecting the long poem," Matthias added, 'The main thrust of what I've done over the last seven years has been writing poems that each take two years to write and require much historical research." 
Bill Watterson 


Matthias has applied for the Guggenheim Fellowship to con­tinue writing about El Camino de Santiago, the oldest and most famous pilgrimage route in Europe. He hopes to use the fellowship to continue research in Spain. Until then, he will continue to enlighten and In­spire his truly "appropriate" Notre Dame audience. 
Do lunch at the. CSC 
SARAH VOIGT accent writer 
J..low does one express .llhospitality? Is it simply the act of allowing your room­mate's friend to camp out on your noor for a home football weekend? Or is it. as Webster's Dictionary so dryly states, "the cordial reception of guests"? 
The hospitality luncheons in the Center for Social Concerns demonstrate that the concept of hospitality encompasses much more than good man­ners and a superficial concern for others. These meals that benefit charities intend to make students more receptive to so­cial and cultural problems and issues. 
Hospitality luncheons are meals sponsored by student social awareness groups, local service organizations and volunteer groups to raise money for various charities and causes. The menus consist of ethnic foods that often reflect the theme of the charity. Ali students and fc.culty are invited to the meals with a mere three dollar donation. 
These luncheons are held in the coffeehouse artd confer­ence rooms in the C.S.C. Aut­hentic ethnic food, tablecloths and flowers create a pleasant environment that encourages students to forget their own concerns for a while and con­centrate on the plights of the underprivileged. 
Mary Ann Roemer, the C.S.C Chairman of Special Events an Concerns, explains, "The warm, homey atmosphere here is con ducive to welcoming people. These luncheons help get stu­dents In touch with issues con­cerning poverty and if1iustice on the local as well as global levels." 
Some previous luncheons have supported similar philanthropic organizations, such as S.A.V. E, a student group that works with the el­derly; and the Dismas House, rehabilitation center for ex­convicts. The third luncheon this year raised money for a Vietnamese refugee family living in South Bend. 
The next hospitality luncheo will be held on Thursday, December 3, from I I :30 to 
I :00. It will be hosted by the Holy Cross Associates and will benefit the South Bend Catholi Worker House, a home for the homeless run solely on dona­tions. It welcomes single wo­men, women with children, an married families with children. Since a few Holy Cross As­sociates recently spent two and a half years in small towns in Chile, the menu for this luncheon will consist of "Chilean celebration food." 
Hopefully, participants will leave the hospitality luncheons with a satisfied hunger but an increased appetite to learn more about lhe C.S.C and the many worthy charities and pro grams it promotes. 

Accent

Wednesday, December 2, 1987 page 9 

It started with a can of 

STEPHANIE SNYDER accent writer 

"You've got to read 'Beemuts," a voice yells across the dining hall. "It has to be 

(3 f£El(<; J 
· SO J SAllY ifif 
r~\ 1 YO/JRE. ~ 
~ I . 


.. '• 
f .8£ER 60661£S.. .IF YA /A/NT WT EH/ (£T EM SCXJN... _ 


-...... 
iFCAVS£ WE AU 
W TO M7rR£ tAME 
you last Saturday night!" 
Students sitting nearby imme· 
diately turn to the comic sec­
tion of the Observer and catch 
the wave of laughter. 
This is not such an unusual 
scene since "Beernuts" is Notre 
Dame's own comic strip de­
signed and drawn by Sopho· 
more Mark Williams. Williams 
previous experience designing 
strips for an "underground" 
paper in high school prepared 
him for his next project. taking 
over Graduate Kevin Walsh's 
strip "Zeto" as a freshman at 
Notre Dame. 
"Zeto' wasn't bad," Williams explained, "but I thought I could improve the quality of the strip." He also added that although he would like to con­tinue designing "Beernuts" for the year, if someone with more talent came along he would want to pass along the torch and see how someone else would handle the strip. 
Williams Is an Industrial Design major, so working with art and taking classes In art seem to dominate most of his time. By designing his own comic strip, he can use his .ar­tistic talent in a very personal and topical way. 
How did Williams come up with the title "Beernuts"? When asked, he recalled, "One night I was sitting In my room think­Ing of a name for my comic strip when I saw a can of beer­nuts sitting on my dresser. The name was perfect. I also liked that the title "Beernuts" was a pun on the well-known strip 'Peanuts. " 
By incorporating different aspects of his personality Into his strip, Williams created the three main characters In "Beer­nuts:" Marvin, Brian, and Joe. Marvin portrays Williams' naivety when he was a fresh­man at Notre Dame. "Marvin expects more from Notre Dame like I did," Williams explained. "He always means well In his actions, but something always happens to him. He's a per­petual freshman." 
Brian Is the partier. He is a 60's throwback. and his laid­back attitude adds humor all situations. Finally, Joe Is the all-American guy, who is com­pletely involved In ROTC. 
Another aspect of Williams' personality that is revealed through "Beernuts" is his blunt­ness. "''m usually blunt when I have something to say, which isn't good In real life situations. I could be more tactful," Wil­liams explained, "but for the comic strip, I think being blunt is a good quality." 
Williams usually tries to add humor and exaggerate com­mon situations that most Domers can relate to or have experienced. The distinctive relationships between the men and the women on campus Is a subject satirized In nearly every 
strip. "I enjoy writing comics that the majority of the stu­dents at Notre Dame can relate to, and I usually end up exag­gerating to make them fun­nier," Williams revealed. He also added that most of situa­tions he creates have happened to him. 
The most well-known strip so far this year, and Williams' per­sonal favorite, Is "beer goggles." The Idea behind the beer goggleS, Is that after anyone has a few beers, the appearances of others begin to change. 

"This, I think. is true for most everyone," Williams ex­plained. "The other night, after a few beers, this girl I knew came up to me and I sort of saw her in a different light (for a minute)--which Is kind of cool, because I guess I look better after a few beers, too." 
As a comic writer, Williams had to start dealing with criticism from fellow students. Last year, when students put him and his work down, he would feel lousy for days. "Now, It doesn't matter anymore If some people don't like what I design. I just don't like to feel downl" 
Almost every day when the time comes to choose a theme for his next strip, Williams has a mental block. He usually waits until the night before to create his next strip and It takes him about one to three hours to finish summarizing his ideas and to finish drawing the scenes. He really tries, however, to design a humorous strip; one that he can feel good about when it is completed. 
When Williams started writing "Beernuts," his drawing style and satirical humor were greatly Influenced by "Doonsbury," which is his fa­vorite strip, and "Bloom County." Now he's really trying to find his own style. 
Williams summarized his feelings when he said, "I don't want people to take It ("Beernuts") too seriously. It's just supposed to be funny. After all, It's just a comic strip done by a college student." 
~-----------------------~----~----------------------------------------~------------------------~..~--.... 
f 
: l H t I' 
r Viewpoi
Wednesday, December 2, 1987 
! ~ 
'' 
:L 
( 
Code is a step in the right direction 
Notre Dame is in the process of implementing an Academic Honor Code, a set of rules that will eventually govern all classes at the University. 
By instituting such a code, the administration is taking a step in the right direction to improve the intellectual and community life at Notre Dame. 
Students must now work to ensure that the Honor Code works at Notre Dame. Without their cooperation, the code will be a failure. 
The only fair way for an instructor to assess a student's performance is to know that the work done is genuinely the student's. Ifthis isn't the case, then the entire grading system is not indicative of all students' work. 
Unfortunately, cheating is prevalent in our community. Most, if not all, students have witnessed this cheating, which ranges from plagiarizing a term paper to copying answers from another's test. 
Clearly, the Honor Code is needed at Notre Dame. 

Every one of this year's freshmen signed an agreement that they will abide by the Honor Code. Other students can enroll in classes conducted under the honor code or vote unanimously to institute the code in a particular class at the beginning of next semester. 
Under the new code, students will be bound to do their coursework honestly and notify the instructor of students who don't. Some students have objected to telling on others who cheat. In an educational environment, however, it is a student's duty to report an offense against the academic community. 
If a student reports a violation, the instructor must tell the Honesty Committee of the Department. The accuser and the accused will then present their arguments and evidence to the committee, which will determine the guilt or innocence of the accused student. . , 
It's up to students and faculty, then, to ensure that the code is properly upheld and administered. If they don't, the Honor Code will fail and cheating will continue unabated. 
And that would be an offense to both the intellectual and community life at Notre Dame. 
On a weekly basis The Observer will select an issue that is of interest to our community. In order to pres­ent different views on the issue, columns will be solicited from the community, including members of the administration, faculty and students. In addition to these contributions, The Observer will also com­ment on the issue. 
The Observer welcomes letters to the Editor con­cerning the opinions presented on these and other issues. The Observer, however, reserves the right to edit all letters, and brevity is a criterion for publica­tion. You may address the letters to The Observer, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Oblerver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily refteet the policin o! the administration of eithef institution. The News ia repotted aa accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the achool community. and the !rae exprasaion of varying opinions on campus, through lettllfl. ia encouraged. 
The Academic Honor C 
The Honor Code: thou shalt squeal 
In the Soviet Union, there are groups of citizens called the druz­hiny. They call themselves "the people brigade." The druzhiny serve as civilian police forces and have the power to punish people for, among other things, bad language, spitting in public, laziness and drunkeness. If the druzhiny believe the off~nse warrants a severe punishment, they report the offender to the real, state­controlled police. 
Tom Varnum 

third and long 
Another example of communist overkill and paranoia, right? Per­haps. There are, however, examples of this sort of self-righteous finger­pointing cropping up in our country. As rabid conservatism continues to descend on our country like flies on you-know-what, many institutions are imposing upon the civil rights of Americans. 
Fortunately, we here at Notre Dame have not been subjected to such injustices. We have escaped such violations, until now. Recently, the administration has decided to in­stitute an Honor Code. 
The Honor Code is broken into parts. First, the Honor Code im­plores students not to cheat. Second, if a students has knowledge of 

anyone cheating, he or she must in­form the professor of the offending student. The first part seems straight-forward and fair. Don't cheat. I really don't think anyone needs to be reminded of this. But, oh, that second part. Loosely trans­lated into the language of the kingdom, it reads: Thou Shalt Squeal. 
Many questions have been raised concerning the Honor Code. Would anyone turn a fellow student in? What is the punishment for not turn­ing someone in? These are both valid questions, but I have a better one: Why do we need an Honor Code? 
Most people would point to today's headlines as an answer to my ques­tion. Inside traders, lying politicians and military men, and scandalous religious figures are more plentiful than bowl scouts at a Notre Dame football game. Would an honor code prevent this from happening in the future? 
Well, Oliver North and John Poin­dexter both went to the Naval Academy, where a similar Honor Code was in effect. Apparently, they were not affected by it. They both lied and deceived their superiors. On second thought, maybe they did fol­lOW an Honor code. They did not ad­mit deception ("I cannot recall."), and they did inform on those who did ("It was Mr. Casey."). If that is honor, spare me. 
Jim Bakker, who has to answer to God, violated a sacred Honor Code with Jessica Hahn. His mistake cost him a lot more than simply failing a class. 
How can we forget Gary Hart? Or His Honor (?!?) Judge Bork? How about President Reagan? It seems to me he took some kind of oath a few years ago. 
All these men -and many more ­were subject to Honor Codes of one kind or another, yet they all lied and cheated. The Honor Code did not work. These men were public figures and, ahem, role models. This kind of behavior makes the idea of an Honor Code a farce. 
Many people are honorable with­out being subject to any code. The people who rescued little Jessica McClure in Texas and the thousands who volunteered at the Special Olympics showed real honor and courage. True honor requires no code. 
How ethical is an Honor Code? Is it right to compel people to inform 
Doonesb 
Editorial Board 
Editor·in·Chief .. .................................. Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski News Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski N-s Editor .............................................. Jim Ailey Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Saint Maty's Editor ........................ Sandy Cefimele Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Operations Board 

Business Manar~er ............................. Brian Murray Advertising Design Manager ........... David Culligan Advertising Mana~r .................. Melinda Chapleau Production Manager...................... Melissa Wamke Pro;ects Manager.........................Mark McLaughlin Systems Manager ............................Shawn Selrton Controller........................................ Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager...................... Laura Stanton 
Founded November3, 1988 
on other people? I, for one, refuse to inform on a fellow student for cheat­ing. I do not believe cheating is right, but I believe that is a choice the in­dividual has to make himself. Does the Honor Code promote honor? How is honor promoted if you are 
'An honor code does not promote individual honor. It destroys trust and forgiveness. It breeds suspicion and contempt. It goes against Catholic morals. It is wrong.' 
prevented from cheating by some­one informing on you? Honor is en­hanced when a person chooses not to cheat because he or she believes it is unethical. Honor cannot be forced from outside, it must come from within. 
Does the Honor Code fall into line with Notre Dame's Catholic prin­ciples? Absolutely not. Instead of treating each other with forgiveness and understanding, students are ex­

nt :ode causes campus controversy 
Wednesday, December 2, 1987 

pected to treat each other with suspicion and contempt. Needless to say, this is not a strong Catholic at­titude. It destroys trust and love, two of the Catholic religion's most sa­cred words. 
What ever happened to forgive and forget? The Honor Code disregards forgiveness. It seems as if the Uni­versity wants to replace "turn the other cheek" with "point the accusa­tive finger." 
An Honor Code does not promote individual honor. It destroys trust and forgiveness. It breeds suspicion and contempt. It goes against Cath­olic morals. It is wrong. 
Although it is wrong, we must live with it. So I offer you a piece of ad­vice. Next year, when you take a test, dont' move. Don't blink, sneeze or cough. Don't look out the window. Don't even scratch your head. They will be out there, watching and waiting. Every move will be re­garded with suspicion. BEWARE! The druzhiny are everywhere. 
Tom Varnum is a junior English major and a regular Viewpoint col-· umnist. 
ury 
Honor Code: a necessary addition 
I am an assistant professor in the College of Business. I feel the need to voice my views on the growing controversy concerning academic honesty and the new Honor Code. Please realize that this is an expres­sion of my individual opinion and should not be generalized in any manner. 
guest column 
I am obliged to assign course grades to my students. These course grades are supposed to be an indica­tion of relative student achievement in the mastery of the topic we have studied. As a means of collecting data about student learning, I nor­mally assign a number of projects and examinations. 
Please understand that I do not en­joy this part of the process. Testing students is not some form of torture the infliction of which gives me sadistic pleasure. The formulation of fair, effective projects and exams (not to mention the grading after­wards) is a difficult, time­consuming process. But I do feel that projects and exams give my students an opportunity to master material at a level beyond that gained simply from attending class. The need to study information sufficiently so that it may be applied to problems posed in a project or exam is a very important learning experience. 
Now, suppose that a student decides to cheat on an assignment. Cheating can take many forms, but it usually involves the presentation of a false reflection of a student's knowledge of a particular topic. If a student cheats, the exam or project's purpose has been defeated. The as­signment will not have helped the student to master the topic of in­struction, and I have no clear reflec­tion of his or her knowledge. 
'The integrity of this institution... suffers considerable damage by accepting academic cheating as somehow 'inevitable'.' 
In such an atmosphere, why grade anything that may be "compromised" by cheating? As­signments on which students have cheated serve neither of the impor­tant purposes for having graded as­signments in the first place. I could simply assign student grades based on classroom participation and elim­inate assigned graded work altoget­her. I doubt most students or teach­ers would find this to be an agreeable approach. Most teachers attempt, and students prefer, to have an ob­jective assessment of their perfor­mance in class. 
Some teachers opt to ''take precautions" to "insure" an environ­ment where it will be difficult for students to gain from cheating. I refuse to do that. I refuse to have my classes remind one of ''Tales from the Gulag." I chose my profes­sion with great care, and I take my profession very seriously. I believe a teacher shows a lack of respect for hi&her students by taking these "precautions." 
So, where am I left? Cheating oc­curs, and eliminates all purposes for collecting graded assignments. But, I won't turn my classes into police states either. There is only one solu­tion: eliminate the cheating through a proactive process. That's where the Honor Code enters the picture. 
I have considerable experience living under an Honor Code. I was both a student and a teacher at the University of Virginia for over five years. Virginia has had a viable Honor System in existence for over 140 years. There is one key factor to why the Honor System works at Vir­ginia: the students believe in the Sys­tem, they respect the System, and they bear responsibilities under the System. Students do not hesitate to accuse classmates that they know have lied, cheated or stolen prop­erty. 
I have been following the student response to the Notre Dame Honor Code expressed in the Observer. I am surprised by the unwillingness of the students, in general, to accept responsibility for accusing others who have violated the Honor Code. This is a very shortsighted view, be­cause for every person that commits an honor offense, the entire student body suffers. 

A student who commits an honor offense makes a statement about the educational environment at Notre Dame. He or she believes that the personal "gain" from the offense is a victimless crime. No one else suf­fers. I disagree. Every honor offense that goes unpunished dilutes the 
'I am suprised by the unwillingness of the students, in general, to accept responsibility for accusing others who have violated the honor code.' 
value of every Notre Dame diploma conferred. When graduates of Notre Dame present themselves as such to colleagues, employers and others, will they be suspected of having cheated, or, just as bad, having con­doned cheating by classmates? The integrity of this institution, an insti­tution charged with nurturing the moral and ethical development of all of its members, suffers considerable damage by accepting academic cheating as somehow "inevitable." 
Academic cheating is a selfish act that deserves little of the "loyalty" that classmates show by their tolerance. Please consider accepting the responsibilities concurrent with life under the Honor Code. 

Garry Trudeau 


Quote of the Day 
Edward Handman "Don't Forget to Eat" 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, December 2, 1987 
Sports Briefs 
The Sailing Club ended its fall season over Thanksgiving at the Timme Angsten Regatta. Over Christmas break, the team will travel to the Orange Bowl Regatta in Miami, Fla. There will be a meeting tonight at 6:30 in 204 O'Shaughnessy for all members. -The Ob­
server 
Snow volleyball tournament sign-ups will be held in the SUB office today and Thursday from 12-5 p.m. Teams should consist of seven people, two of which must be women. There is a $2 entrance fee per team. -The Observer 
The JACC is now open untill a.m. Monday through Thursday for student use. -The Observer 
IH football equipment return will take place today from 6-7 p.m. at Gate 9 of the stadium for anyone who has not yet returned their equipment. This will be the absolute last chance for players to return equipment and avoid getting billed for it. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 


Action continues In the 1987-8 National Hockey League season. Scores and standings are located 
11111 ca-w.~ o.me office, loQted on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· ..... c.nter, ~cl...,fled edwitlllng from .10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday thnJugh ~-,_a..-Saint Mlry'a office, located on the third floor of .....,_Collge Cent•. ~eiMalfleda from 12:30 p.m. unlll3 p.m., Mondey ttwoug11 ~-Dledflne tor nut~ clualfieda 11 3 p.m. All eiUelflecle muet
Classifieds be ....,_,, either In peqon ~ by men. The eherge 11 10 cents per five 
c:Mra:•·~-­
TRAFFIC TRAINEE ATIENTION SAINT MARY·s STU·
1 
To the REO hair wtblue eyes in my FILM South Bend branch of • national Iran•· DENTS'! WIN A SKI WEEKEND FOR
4 tickets tor Hoosier classic 12-5 at class. I know you live in BP. What's your 
portlltlon firm haa an opportuntty that YOU AND 3 FRIENDS! RAFFLE TICK·
Hoosier Doms Call234·1067 or aher 3:30 name? 

offero 1 dlverotty of dutln, growth po­ETS ON SALE IN HCC UNTIL FRIDAY
'--TY-PI-N~-0-0R-!-~-0C-EE_~S-,N-G~1 IL__FO_R_R_E_NT___, 
232·7820 tential and an axcellenlula~nefhl OEC.4. WINNER WILL BE AN·C.I.L.A. CHRISTMAS CARDS I! On sale 

CALL CHRIS Looking for your own room next semes· package. Qual111catlona: Bachelor or NOUNCEO AT THE FAMOUS
in North and South Dining Halls. Decem­
234-11997 ter? Need 1·3 roommates for house, aiiOCIItH deg-In general bull· VACATIONERS RAFFLE
CONCERT.
ber 2 and 3. 1(}1;1.00.

$1()().$125tno plus utilities. Call 271· neu, good organlzlltlo""l and Inter· TICKETS ARE ONLY $1.00. GET THEM 0758. paraonal aklllo, 35 wpm typing ability NOW!!!
BUXTER·YOU BUMI What'l hoppenln
........................................ PERSONALS (for computer uuga), able to worl< In
Wordprocessing· Typtng 

hot atuf? Remember: It you rub Hthe 272·8827 
BEAUTIFUL 3-BEOROOM APART, a fut paced atmoaphere, willing to
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, wrong way, you'll get the belt feel for
FURNISHED AVAIL DEC. 1 233 6298 work alone It nacaaury. lntereoted? 
IT"S A SALE!GREAT SWEATERS AND Sand -uma to: 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE It; I'm not tk:klloh; torment Ia fun; you 
JEWELRY WILL BE ON SALE IN SMC So. Bend Ma""gar
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. can never get enough. Ok? Flnell J.C. 
TYPING HCC GAMEROOM THURSAND FRI 
P.O. Box 771
211-e131 or 237-1849 OEC.3&4 FROM 10·6PM. CREDIT
REACH NO Hockey £14: 
Sterling Hgtl., Ml 48311.0771
WANTED 
out to your lriends abroad Sr. Bar. Thurs. at 12? CARDS AND CHECKS ACCEPTED with a personal ad in Drinks on me. THESE ARE GREAT FOR X·MAS!! MARISSA'S TYPING 217·2724 NIGHT; FOREIGN RELATIONS' REACH ·An Interested Blonde 277-1051 DAY. 
EARN MONEY Need ride to-from Kansas for Chnstmas. 
NEWSLETIER

GREAT P8rt·llma opportunity to GAIN Will pay my part. John 1374 
GOING TONEAR INDY 12'4·1U? CANonly 50 cents for up to 20 wordsll
EXPERIENCE while marketing FOR·

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL I GO? $$ ROZEL 284·5083. TUNE 500 CompaniM' product• on WOULD YOU LIKE TO DIRECT A MU· 
buy as many 20-word blocks as you likeII FOR A GOOD TIME ON FRIDAY NIGHT 
MRS.COKER,2~~ write your ad, put~ WITH YOUR MONEY CALL JIM KLEMENS AT 3312 
campual FLEXIBLE hoursl Rater· SICAL? THE SUB IS LOOKING FOR A
in an envelope in Mary Bergeof'oreign


encaa given. Cell t-800-&43-2781. DIRECTOR FOR THE 1987-88 STU·
Relations· mailbox and we'll do the rest STEVE MADE IT!!! COLLEEN KEYS Happy 20th Dude Vel· 
DENT PLAYERS" MUSICAL NEXT SE· low socks. magnets. package. ball(s).
If you were lucky enough to still have film MESTER. INTERESTED STUDENTS 
NatharvBemell. turtlenecks
SNOW VOLLEYBALL STEVE MAOE IT!!! pampers.
left at the end of the Alabama game and CAN PICK UP AN APPUCATION IN
SNOW VOLLEYBALL What memories hey?! Have a great day'
have pictures of the ensuing field THE SUB OFFICE-DUE MON DEC 7
SIGN UP IN SUB OFFICE TODAY STEVE MADE IT!!I We love you! Fran. Nancy, and Jod• P.S
mayhem. I would love to get oopies. 

W1NTERFEST Happy Btrthday to her "lesser halt" also'
CALL THE SLUG AT 283-3105 AND And now we present...
WINTERFEST STEVE CAMPBELL MADE THE SETON 
LET'S MAKE A DEAL. TOP QUOTES FROM MIAMI 
' LOST/FOUND I 

HALL PREP BASKETBALL TEAM!I! ALL 1. Don't do it, your own hair is muchGORGEOUS NOTRE DAME WOMEN
Looking for one energetic, on-campus nicer. PATRICK OF
IF YOU FOUND MY BINOCULARS at ATIENTION: o·LEARY
Campus Booklist Coming Soon PLEASE SEND CONGRATS TO HIM AT
student to help market popular member· 2. We're like locusts··we descend upon ALUMNI I THINK YOU ASKED THEthe Boston College Game, please return 30 BURNETI TEA WEST ORANGE, NJ
ship Coupon Booklets of records, cas· everyone we know. PERSON
them. I am offering a $27 reward and my WRONG TO YOUR SYR•
Bnan 07052 Prarie View A and M ticket for the return YOUR FAVORITE BELLE.
senes and COS. Good income potential. 3. Don't worry. this car is really Chitty· 
See, it's just not me

Alexander AssoC. 272·2485. chitty-bang·bang.
of my scopes. Please call Pete at 31 05. 

You've been a victim SAILING CLUB They are standard black Jason brand YOU'VE BEEN A VICTIM 
4. Some enchanted even•ng. you will
MEETING binoculars. with a strap. 

I need 2 riders to meet a prince (at B•scayne Baby) and he
John 8:30 tonight

Northeast Colorado will be a taifY. 
TO ROSABELLE WHITE AND CARLA tor Christmas Break 5. Rachal. if you think that's a phallic204 O'Shag
LOST .. HP15C calculator left in rm 123 WITZEL(A.KA X AND Y). SO YOU Call Chris 1008 symbol, then I wish you luck in all of your 
Nieuland on Fri. 11Ml. Please HELP GUYS DIDN'T EXPECT ME TO DO tuture endeavors.
To Sharon of P.E. I want You. ·D. 

REWARD. Call Joe x3285. Hyou're driving wtn 2 hr of SW Conn tor TOASTMASTERS THIS. HOWEVER TELEVISION 
6. Excuse me. are you wearing anything 
xmss & want $, help driving, call 2662 "CHRISTIAN UFE AND THE SACRA­TOASTMASTERS SNATCHERS AND SNATCHERS OF 
under !hare? 
To the person who took my dark blue ask for MafY Lee. Need to know this week MENTS...IN ADVENT" W1LL BE THE GUEST SPEAKER $6.50 DESERVE APPROPRIATE Eaatpsl< backpack with a brown leather PUNISHMENTS. STEALING OF
7. Wh~e guys!
SUBJECT OF PROF. HIMES TALK ON TONIGHT 7:30 bonorn from the south cafe at lunch on WANT TO EARN $12 FOR JUST THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3 AT RM223 HH CHILDREN AND OTHERS PROPERTY
8. 
Male and female bonding. 

9. 
··1 should have known beHe(· ... "I got


Friday, Nov. 20. ft has all my notes and WATCHING T.V.? WANT TO EARN $12 !O:OOPM IN 341 O'SHAUI"IHNESSY. ALL WELCOME OOSEN'T EXEMPLIFY THE BEST BE· 
my mind set on you" ... ""Ooh, heaven is
books from every class for this entire se­FOR DOING YOUR STUDIES? RELAX THIS IS FOR THEO MAJORS AND ALL HAVIOR. J 
a place on earth" ... "1 had the time ot my
mester. My finals will be ruined Hyou do IN OUR LAZY BOYS AND DO BOTH! 
INTERESTED PERSONS. not at least return the notes. PLEASEIII GIVE BLOOD PLASMA AND HELP lite" ... AUGHHH··RAOIO CHECK !I

D.C. CLUB BUS SIGNUPS 
-See tomorrow's personals lor part two...
Call Susan at 2830 or return to rm. 311 SAVE A CHILO'S LIFEI BRING THIS AD Okay .. so she lied! Her nams •sn"t Karen
SEAN & THE SUN KINGS THURS. AT The D.C. Club will be oponlorlng • 
Lyons ... no questions ssked. Thanks. TO: AMERICAN PLASMA. 515 LIN· ClUB 23 AT 10:00 PM $.75 CANS buo home lor Chrtatm• break. She isn't 24 ... HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY COLNWAY WEST. TUES. WED. FRI. (to the tune of the Oscar Meyer Hoi Dog CATHLEEN SIEGEL'!!
The Important lntormetlon 11 u 101­
FOUND -NO men's clsss ring in Sr. Bat SAT. 9:()().5:00 234·6010 SEAN & THE SUN KINGS THURS. AT song)...
lowo: 

parking lol. Call Lee at 289-6714 to iden· CLUB 23 AT 10:00 PM $.75 CANS 10:00 on Friday Oh I wish I were like Jill Lennert.
[)aperture: P.M. 
lily. That Is how /"d truly like to be.
Dacamber 11 from the llbrery circle (lnnsbruck. 1 a'11) HAPPY BIRTHDAY SEAN & THE SUN KINGS THURS. AT Arrtvolln D.C.: Approx. 10:00 A.M. on LENA PEPA
For If I were like Jill Lennert, IF YOU FOUND A LARGE BLUE AND CLUB 23 AT 10:00 PM $.75 CANS Everyone would want ro be like me. who knows it the moon's a balloon. com·
FOR SALE Saturday Dec. 11 et the 
GOLD NO UMBRELLA IN AM. 103 OF Greyhound Buo otatlon downtown •ng out of a keen cily in the sky-filled with O'SHAG ON 11116, PLEASE CALL RAY For the return trip back to achool: .................... pretty people? (and if you and i should at 1478. THANKS. -FOR SALE· BUFFALO BUS FOR BREAK SIGN· [)aperture: 1:00 P.M. on Mon. Jan 11 RAM (B .. ), Beginning PRIVATE practice. get inlo it, if they should take me and -GENUINE HEINTZ PUPPIES-UPS:Thurs 3·5 and Sat 1-4 (Oec.3 & 5) from The Greyhound Station OenlialfY. Will accept rainchecks. Luv Bo take you into their balloon. why then we'd LOST: Pair of blue and green ski gloves ChOOSe now, we will hOld them Until the in the main lobby of LaFortune. LEAVES Ch...... p.s. good luck in MAGICAL din· go up higher with all the pretty people
Arrtwol: Approx. 9:00 A.M. on Tuaa. 
from back of bike locked behind librB'Y hoHdays N.D. Dec. 19. RETURNS Jan.1 t COST: Jan. 12 In Hrne to enroll nerst than houses and steeples and clouds: on Saturday 28th. They are my only CaN PETE at 239·5803 or 234-7429 $50 roundtrip. NO ONE-WAY PRICE COST: $75 roundtrip -Pay"*~! by NO go sailing away and away sailing into a gloves and I need them desperalelyl H REDUCTIONS. ?"a call Kim at 3425 Credit Union checlc or caah only Good Luck to IRISH SWIMMING in the keen city which nobody's ever vis~ed. found please caK Tom al 271-<!MS. quest to be "Best Cetholic Team" in the where always ~·s Spring) and everyone's 
SIGNUPS"" Monday Dacamber 7 
For Sale: C-ITOH F 1Q-40 Starwmer JOIN THE WAR AGAINST FLACCIDITY from 1-e P.M. et the lntormatlon COUnlfY in love and flowers pick themselves e.e. l.osl: GOLD BRACELET in or near S. Printer with Sheetfeeder. Besl Offer. 284· booth In the lobby of LaFortune cummings I m1ss you, love Susy Dining Hal. Pleaee call Colleen £2537. 5886 TOM M.· Roses are red, VIOieta are blue. au..uona caH Mike McCarthy et 321 a h•.mmina.hummina,hummina 
I really could have fallen In love with PLEASE HELPIII I LOST MY KEYS PLANE TIX TO HOUSTON H08BY on you... OH GIVE ME HAPP ... PLAYING FOOTBALL ON SOUTH DEC 17 x1177·GREG 
Desperately need a ride to either QUAD IN FRONT OF ALUMNI. 2 KEYS TOM M.·Rosea are red, VioletS are blue, Decatur, IL (MiWkin U), Champaign. IL ( Jackie-Happy anniverssryl3 v.! years... I Happy lste Birthday T.DII ON A LEPRACHAUN KEY CHAIN. never would have guessed. They've There is no Madonna shrine but we still
FOR SALE 1979 DELTA 88 RUNS Guess what TOM MATZ, H's not you! U of 1), or Normal, 1L (ISU) for this THEY WERE LOST ON NOV. 21st JUST GREAT PERFECT FOR NO STUDENT weekend. I'll share costs. Call Trish been the most..eventlul ..yea, that's ~..of love youl 
BEFORE BREAK. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 234-8047 W[LCOI'tl! IIACK TO THI! THIRD l'tUS­£4620 my life-·thanksll Love always, John. CALL NANCY AT x3885 
KI!TttRIIII TH[ ""OTH[R TWO"" MISSI!D ONE WAY TICKET FOR SALE. Fly back I NEED A RIDE TO THE BIG FOUR BAS· 
YOU 50MI!THII'!" rt[RCI!II HOPI! YOUR Todey is Chris Dauer's birthday! Every­
Cathy Fridey Night could be exciting H
FOUND: a gold pen in the Cushing to Sou1h Bend trom New York on Pied­JOURI11!Y TO THI! W[ST WAS [VI!RY· one ""THE a happy 21 KETBALl CLASSIC IN INDIAPOI.IS
wish GOOF" we only had dates!
audilorium with the initials R.D.D. mont on Jan 10 for $92. Call Kevin at THII'!O YOU HOI'I!D roR ALWAYS Rl:· (Gotcha!) SATURDAY.! HAVE TICKETS NICK But what Ia a NUN to do?
engraved upon II. Call John I 374. 

4335. Mr:M81!R: WI! LOVI! YOU 111111111111 x2101 or 2100 
................................................................ 

'""HELP'"' TO OUR COMMIE ENEMY. PHREO IS
NO LAW WOMEN I lOST 111 GOLD GUCCI 1-tacllnexpanding their llcKtana DEAOIII FROM 'KIUER' AlVA AND Anel-11 life reaaty as bad as you have WATCH FRI. NITE B-4 TICKETS ...., maiM with quality free time on I "PSYCHO" CELONA been complaining about? TURKEY BREAK NEAR leMANS ......... NO JD1 NEED NOT APPLY WANT Althela-Cookie-Dough fingernails still & THE PARKING LOTI! A HEY GARY GERLACHER! excl\a mell rr HAS INCREDIBLE SENTIMENTAL For Sela C'-P Round Trip PIMa Till FAMOUS Your favorite I8Cretary and your sleeping Kara· Welcome back 1o the lite of reality. VALUEIIIF FOUND,PLEASE CONTACT ~.,...olla for X-MAS CUROE: expect Hwhen you LEAST ex· VACATION beauty wish you a belated HAPPY You sure do have a nice tanl CHRISTINA AT £5.411511 ........ Call-1041 peel it BIRTHDAY! 

December 2, 1987 The Observer page 13 
Sports Wednesday 
Bowl Schedules , 
Florida Citrus Bowl Hall of Fame Bowl Liberty Bowl Penn State vs. Clemson Michigan vs. Alabama Arkansas vs. Georgia 
ACTIVE COACHES IN THE 
January 1, 11 a.m. January 2. Noon December 29, 7 p.m. Orlando, Fla. Tampa, Fla. Memphis, Tenn. $1.05 million per team $800,000 per team $1 million 
MOST BOWL GAMES 
ABC-TV NBC-TV Raycom network 
Cotton Bowl Peach Bowl Aloha Bowl Joe Paterno 18 games (12-5-1) 
Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M Tennessee vs. Indiana Florida vs. UCLA January 1, 12:30 ~T.m. January 2, Noon December 25, 2:45 p.m. Vince Dooley 18games (6-10-2) Dallas, Tex. Atlanta, Ga. Honolulu, Hawaii $2.2 million per team $800,000 per team $500,000 per team Tom Osborne 14 games (8-6) CBS-TV Mizlou network ABC network 
Bo Schembechler 14games (3-11) 
Fiesta Bowl Bluebonnet Bowl 
Sun Bowl Nebraska vs .. Florida State Pittsburgh vs. Texas Oklahoma St. vs. West Virginia Johnny Majors 12 games (6-6) January 1, 12:30 p.m. December 31, 8 p.m. December 25, 1 :30 p.m. Tempe, Ariz. Houston Tex. El Paso, Tex. Barry Switzer 11 games (8-3) 
$2.1 million per team $500,000 per team $850,000 per team 
NBC-TV Mizlou network CBS-TV Earle Bruce 11 games (6-5) Sugar Bowl Gator Bowl All-American Bowl Lou Holtz 11 games (5--4-2)
Auburn vs. Syracuse South Carolina vs. LSU Brigham Young vs. Virginia January 1, 2:30 p.m. December 31, 1:30 p.m. December 22, 7 p.m. LaVell Edwards 11 games (4-7) New Orleans. La. Jacksonville, Fla. Birmingham, Ala. $2.65 million per team $1 million $800,000 per team Jerry Claibo 11 (3-8) ABC-TV CBS-TV Raycom network 
Rose Bowl Freedom Bowl Independence Bowl Michigan State vs. Southern Cal Air Force vs. Arizona State Tulane vs. Washington January 1, 4 p.m. December 30, 7 p.m. December 19, 7 p.m. Pasadena, Calif. Anaheim, Calif. Shreveport, La. $6 million per team $515,000 per team $500,000 per team NBC-TV Mizlou network Mizlou network 
Orange Bowl Holiday Bowl California Bowl Miami vs. Oklahoma Wyoming vs. Iowa San Jose St. vs. Western Michigan January 1, 7 p.m. December 30, 6:30 p.m. December 12, 3:30p.m. Miami, Fla. San Diego, Calif. Fresno, Calif. · $2.65 million per team $750,000 per team $170,000 per team NBC-TV ESPN network ESPN network 
Sports Calendar -Football Top 20 Basketball Top 20 NFL Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE AP Top Twenty APTop Tw.rty NATIONAL CONFEI'IENCE 
Saturday

Home games in CAPS The Top Twenty college football teams in The The Top Twenty college bulcetball teams In The Eut Men's Basketball vs. Louisville at In­Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­Associated Preu poll, with first·pl-votes in paren­W L T Pet. PF PA dianapolis theses, this season's records and IOtal points. Points theses, this season's records and total points. Points Washington 8 3 0 .727 273 201
Today 

based on 20-19-18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents Dallas 5 6 0 .455 280 2611
Women's Basketball at Pheonix Classic 

SMC Basketball at Loyola are Italicized. are Italicized. Philadelphia 5 6 0 .455 252 295
in Green Bay, Wise. 

1. Oklahoma (48) 11.().0 1,090 St. Louis 5 · 6 o .455 271 275 
Men's and Women's Swimming hosts 2. Miami,Fia. (IJ) 1. No. Carolina (37) 3-0 1,109 N.Y. Giants 3 8 0 .273 193 248 2. Kentucky (7) 1-o 955
to-c-o 1,049 
NATIONAL CATHOLIC INVITATIONAL 3. Florida State 1Q-HI 985 

3. SYfacuae (2) 2-2 916
4. SYfacuse (1) 11-Q-() 914 c.mr.l 
Pittsburgh (4) 1.()
Thursday 5. Nebraska 4. 913
Hockey vs. MICHIGAN-DEARBORN 1Q-1-(I 904 5. 817
Indiana (4) 1-o
6. Auburn 9-1-1 Chicago 9 2 0 .818 299 180
Men's and Women's Swimming hosts Wrestling at Las Vegas Invitational 803 6. Iowa 3-0 812 
Mlnnesola 7 4 0 .636 261 248 NATIONAL CATHOLIC INVITATIONAL SMC Swimming at NATIONAL CATH· 8. So. Carolina &-2-o 703 7. FIO<ida (1) 4-0 717 G,_, Bay 4 6 1 .409 193 214 8. Mlaaouri (1) ().() 704 
7. LSU 9-1·1 765 

SMC Swimming at NATIONAL CATH­OLIC INVITATIONAL 9. Michigan State 8·2-1 835 Tempe Bay 4 7 0 .384 222 241 
9. Arizona (1) 3-0 636 
.182

OLIC INVITATIONAL SMC Basketball at Michigan-Dearborn 10. UCLA 9-2.() 573 10. Wyoming 1.() 633 Detro~ 2 9 0 189 307 11. Oklahoma St. 9-2.() 473 
11. Purdue 1-1 588
12. NoiN O.me Weat
~ 417 

12. Temple o-o 483Sunday 13. Clemson 9-2.() 
405 

13. Duke 1-o 465
14. Georg1a 374 San Franclaco 9 2 0 .818 312 234
&-3-0

Men's and Women's Swimming vs. VIL· 15. 14. Louisville ().() 418 New Orleans 8 3 .727 280 191
0
Texas A&M 9-2.() 371

Friday LANOVA and FORDHAM Tennessee 15. Michigan (1) 2·1 383 LA. Aama 4 7 0 .384 226 268
16. 9-2·1 271 

16. Kansu 1-2. 375 
Atlanta 9 0 .182 184

Men's and Women's Swimming hosts 17. Southern Cal 8·3.() 287 2 328 
17. Georgetown 2-o 348
18. Iowa 9-3.() 148

NATIONAL CATHOLIC INVITATIONAL 18. Oklahoma 1.() 237 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Women's Basketball at Phoenix Classic Tuesday Penn State 125 19. UNLV ().() 83 Eut 
19. Pitt 8-3.() 
20. 8-3.() 82 

20. Memphis St. 1.() 67 
w L TPct. PF PA Butlalo 5 

in Green Bay, Wise. 
Other receiving votes: Iowa State 86, Georgia 8 0 .545 208 238
Hockey vs. MICHIGAN-DEARBORN Men's Basketball vs. BOSTON UNI· Others receiving .ates: Wyoming 55, lndiiJ/18 54, Tech 64, Notre o.tM 51, Seton HaM 50, llllnoia 41, 
Indianapolis 8 5 0 .545 244 1g1Wrestling at Las Vegas Invitational VERSITY Alabama 51, San J0811 State 14. Eastern Michigan New Orleans 35, Aubum 29, DePaul 24, Vilaoova N.Y. Jets 8 5 0 .545 252 223 SMC Swimming at NATIONAL CATH­SMC Basketball at Lake Michigan Col· 6, Air Force 4, Al1<ansas 4, Ohio State 2, Florida 1, 24, Georgia 20, Bradley 18, St. John's 14, N.C. State Miami 5 8 0 .455 284 252 
lege Michigan 1, West Virginia 1. 11, So. Mississippi 11, New Mexico 10, Xavier, Ohio New England 5 6 0 .455 221 225
OLIC INVITATIONAL 
10, LSU 8, Brigham Young 5, Kanaes St. 5, M8f'/lllnd 4, SW Missouri State 4.· Texas E~P880 3, Cleveland Central State 2. Idaho 2, Loyola, CalK. 2, Ohlo State 2, Pepperdine 2, UCLA 2, LaSalle 1, SW Louisiana 1, Cleveland 7 4 0 .636 302 176
Irish Hockey NHL S~andings 
Stanford 1. 
Houston 7 4 0 .838 302 176 Pittaburgh 6 5 0 .545 223 231 Cincinnati 3 8 0 .273 190 243 WALES CONFERENCE 
Adami Dtvlalon w L T GF GA Pta.

Through Sunday 
PLAYER, POS. GP G A PTS PIM PPG SHG 
Weat Mike McNeill. C 11 9 17 26 4 5 0 
Scoreboard
Montreal 16 7 5 108 82 37 
Boston 14 10 2 97 91 30 

Bruce Guay, LW 11 15 8 23 28 6 1 
Buffalo 9 4 86 104 Sen Diego 8 3 0 .727 212 220 Kevin Marltovitz, C 11 7 13 20 12 6 0 
11 22 
Denver 7 3 1 .682 283 223
Quebec 10 12 1 87 96 21 

4 R•ult• tor Nov. 18 through Dec. 1 Seattle 7 4 0 .838 280 217
Hartford 8 10 71 73 20 LA. Raiders 4 7 0 .384 237 222 Tom Mooney, RW 11 6 13 19 10 2 0 
Pllrlck Dlvlllon Tim Kuehl, RW 11 5 7 12 8 1 0 
Pat Foley, D 11 2 10 12 12 0 0 N.Y. Islanders 15 7 1 98 74 31 Football Kansas Ci1y 2 9 0 .182 172 308 New Jersey 13 8 3 86 81 2S Penn State over Notre Dame, 21-10Matt Hanzel, LW 10 5 4 9 0 2 0 
Washington 11 11 2 78 72 2~ Miami over Notre Dame, 2~Brian Montgomery, RW 11 4 5 9 2 1 0 
Pittsburgh 9 10 5 87 91 23 Robert Bilton, C 11 3 2 5 4 0 1 
13 92 Michael Leherr, D 11 0 5 5 12 0 0 
N.Y. Rangers 8 3 97 19 Ba8ketbllll NBA Standings
Philadelphia 8 13 3 74 95 19 

Men
Robert Herber, RW 11 2 3 5 16 1 0 
Indiana 76, Notre Dame 59 Eutern Confarence
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 

Chris Olsen. C 6 1 2 3 4 0 0 
Women Atlantic Dlvlalon 
Smythe Dvlalon w L T GF GA Pta Lance Patten, D 6 0 2 2 12 0 0 

Notre Dame 67, Loyola 61 w L Pet. GB Tom Smith, LW 11 1 1 2 10 0 0 
Boeton 10 5 .867 Frank O'Brien, D 7 1 1 2 6 0 0 
Calgary 14 8 3 122 94 31 Notre Dame 69, Northwestern 49 Philadelphia 5 6 .455 3
Edmonton 14 9 2 115 90 30 

John Welsch, LW 11 1 1 2 2 0 0 Washington 4 8 .333 4.5
Winnipeg 10 12 1 83 93 21 Men'• crou Country 4 9 5
New York .308

Tim Caddo, D 11 0 2 2 2 0 0 
Vancouver 9 13 2 83 91 20 

Seventh place finish at NCAA Champion­New Jersey .167
2 10 8.5 ships Central Dlvlalon 
Los Angeles 7 13 4 90 115 18

Bruce Haikola, D 11 0 1 1 14 0 0 
Noma Dlvlllon

Roy Bemiss, D 11 0 1 1 16 0 0 Chicago 10 3 .769
Detro~ 11 9 2 75 72 24 Chicago 10 12 2 94 101 22 

. Andy Slaggert, RW 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Milwaukee 9 4 .892 1 Tom Fitzgerald. LW 5 0 1 1 2 0 0 
Volleybell Atlanta 8 5 .615 2 Rob Bankowske, RW 6 1 0 1 0 0 0 Toronto 10 11 2 97 93 22 
Minnesota 9 12 3 85 95 21 Notre Dame over Valparaiso, 15-6, 15·13, Oetrort 8 5 .615 2 Phil Shaffalo, RW 3 1 0 1 4 0 0 
Indiana 8 6 .571 2.5 Lance Madson, G 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 
St. Louis 8 12 2 76 84 18 15-6 
Cleveland 3 8 .273 8

Notre Dame over Marquette, 15-3, 15-3, 15-2 Bench 11 0 0 0 6 0 0 
Notre Dame over Dayton, 13-15,15-13, 15·2, 
WMtem Conferance 15-6 M~l Dlvlalon 
NOTRE DAME 11 64 ~ 163 186 24 2 
Notre Dame over Northern Illinois, 15-7, 1G-Pet. OPPONENTS 11 50 76 126 226 1t 1 
Hockey Top 10 w L GB 
15, 15-8, 15-6 Denver 8 4 .667 DaMas 7 5 .583 1 Houston 7 6 .538 1.5
WBEB College Hockey Medii Poll Swimming 
Utah 7 6 .538 1.5

SCORING BY PERIODS 1 2 3 OT T 
The Top Ten college hockey teams in The WBEB Men San Antonio 5 8 .385 3.5
Notre Dame 19 21 22 2 64 
College Hockey Service Bureau Media PoH, wilh Notre Dame over Ferris State 
Sacramento 4 7 .364 3.5

Opponents 17 15 18 0 50 
first-place votes in parentheses, this season's 

Notre Dame over Wisconsin-Milwaukee P8clflc Dlvlalon records and total points. 
Women L.A. Lakers 9 2 .818 
Notre Dame over Ferris State Portland 7 5 .583 2.5 GOALTENDERS MIN RCD G GAA svs PCT so 
1. Maine (10) 7-1-1 127 

Seattle 7 8 .538 3 Lance Madson 613 7-1-2 43 4.21 276 .865 0 
2. Minnesota (1) 11·3-0 100 Notre Dame over Wisconsin-Milwaukee Phoenix 4 6 .400 4.5
3. Michigan St. &-3-1 99Mark O'Sullivan 80 1..()-0 6 4.50 20 .769 0 
L.A. Clippers 4 8 .333 5.5

4. St. Lawrence (1) 5-2.() 72 Hockey Golden State 2 10 .167 7.5
NOTRE DAME 695 6-1-2 so• 4.32 296 .855 0 
5. lake Superior ( 1) 10·2·2 68 Notre Dame 3, St. Thomas 2 OPPONENTS 695 1-8-2 64 5.53 325 .835 0 6. Colgate 5-1·0 65 
Notre Dame 10. St. Thomas 6 Tueaday'l Reaulla
7. Denver 8-4·2 62 

Notre Dame 7, Mercyhurst 3 Detroit 124. New Jersey 115 (OT)·1nclut!es one open-net goal 53
B. Harvard 4.()-Q 

Notre Dame 7, Canisius 4 Atlanta 120. Boston 106
9. Providence 5-1·3 31 
Seattle 112. New York 109

10. Northeastern 4-3·2 21 Notre Dame 5, Canlsius 4 

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, December 2, 1987 
Rivers needs teammates to help with the scoring 

------~~--~--------------....--.... .... 
-
By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
BLOOMINGTON -The big red of Indiana University ex­posed some of Notre Dame's green edges in the crucial mo­ments en route to Tuesday's 76­59 victory. 
David Rivers was able to score 24 points, but no other Irish player reached double fig­ures a~ NOtre Dame shot a frigid 35.5 percent from the floor. 
Working against Steve Eyl and then Kreigh Smith early in the contest, Rivers was able to score 14 points early in the first half, including 4-of-7 shooting from the three-point range. 
Rivers added 10 points in the second half, but hit on only three of 13 shots, including just 1-of-5 from beyond the three­point line and had several poor shots and turnovers. 
Many of Rivers' difficulties were a result of a change in the Hoosier defense that put Keith Smart on the Irish guard. 
"Smart played me a little tighter and he had the quick­ness to make up ground," Rivers explained. "And if I was able to get around him, there was someone taller there to double-team me. I had to be much more careful." 
Against that tough defense, Rivers had trouble scoring or 
finding an open man to take ad­
vantage of the double-team. 
"I think it's tough for him to 
see through two defensive 
players quickly," said Indiana 
head coach Bob Knight. "When 
we are rotating properly, the 
man that is open is the man 
furthest from the ball, and it's 
hard to get the ball over to 
him." 
With Rivers' scoring difficul­
ties in the second half, Notre 
Dame head coach Digger 
Phelps hoped he could get some 
clutch scoring from other 
sources. That was not the case. 
"That's what disappoints me the most, that the other guys aren't coming through," Phelps said. "We need Mark Stevenson (eight points) and Sean Connor (seven points) to come through." 
Entering the season Phelps said that he expected Rivers to take control of the team down the stretch. But after Tuesday night's game, Phelps empha­sized that this doesn't mean the other players aren't expected to contribute as well. 
"I thought David maybe was trying to do too much by him­self, force too many situa­tions," Phelps said. "And yet the other people have got to learn to get open and to use the screens without worrying what David's doing." 
Much of the problem can be attributed to inexperince. 
Associated Press Aldridge, a starting end for 
the Packers under coaching 
FORT WORTH, Texas-Men­great Vince Lombardi during tal illness cost Lionel Aldridge the 1960s, works as an account his marriage, a network broad­supervisor for the U.S. postal casting job and about $400,000. Service in Milwaukee, and as It led him to attempt suicide a sportscaster for WTMJ radio and put him on the streets for in Milwaukee on weekends. 2% years. He is giving a series of lec­
But the former Green Bay tures, some in conjunction with Packers defensive end says, the National Alliance for the even with his battle to over­Mentally Ill, a national non­come paranoid schizophrenia, profit group. he would not change a minute In 1963, after a successful of his life. career at Utah State, he was 
At 46, and three years drafted in the fourth round by removed from his third stay in the Packers. At 6-foot-4 and 245 a treatment facility, he is put­pounds, Aldridge became a ting his life back together. standout on one of the more fa­
Aldridge, speaking recently mous defensive lines in NFL at Texas Christian University, history, with Hall-of-Farner recounted that in the spring of Willie Davis at the other end, 1977 voices that he had been and Henry Jordan and Ron Kos­hearing since the early 1970s telnik at the tackles. told him that the source of his Team members remember problems was the family dog. Aldridge as introverted, but The voice told Aldridge to beat said there was no hint of the dog and he obeyed. For the serious problems. second time in his life he had Aldridge p)ayed on three to be hospitalized. championship teams, but in the 
"I knew I had a problem," early 70s, toward the end of his 
he says. "I knew I was crazy." career, his problems surfaced, 
anymore,!' said Mulvey, "but if we stay healthy, next year
Garrett 
all we can do is go up from
continued from page 20 
where we are." America honors, "other teams The Irish hope the maturitydidn't expect it, and knowing and experienced they gained 
we were at the bottom of the this season will carry on to next list really got us up." year and help establish Notre With their underdog status Dame as a national threat. secure, the Irish were able to "They had a goal and dream catch many national power­this year and they did it," said houses by surprise, including Piane. "The next step is to per­Indiana University, which petuate what we've done. If youplaced ahead of Notre Dame at can do it two years in a row, the District meet. Now the goal you have a good established is to maintain this type of per­team and you add a lot of depthformance. to make sure it stays that 
"We won't be a surprise way." 
Stevenson, Connor, and Gary Voce (eight points) have not been called upon much in past pressure situations because there were other veteran players (Donald Royal and Scott Hicks last year) to take command in the waning mo­ments. 
Their development in this area, as well as that of sopho­more Keith Robinson as a scorng threat, will have a lot to say about the team's fortune this season. 
"I think David will have a great season, and I think obvi­ously he feels he has to make up for what we don't have," Phelps said. "But there's a time to do that, and I think that happens when the other guys start scoring and the other teams have to start worrying about them." 
Everyone involved is confi­dent the Irish will develop, much as they did last season, with more playing time and ex­perience in pressure situations. And Rivers says his problems in Assembly Hall won't cause him to change his style. 
"I want to win as much as anyone," Rivers said. "So when were in that position, I want to make things happen. That's the way I've always played, and that's the way I will continue to play. I may force a bad shot, but I'm going to do us more good than bad." 


Former Packer Aldridge learns to deal with illness 
starting as spells of depression in the off-season. 
"Things just got hard for me," he told the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. 
In April 1972, he was traded to the San Diego Chargers where he played two seasons before ending his career. 
In 1977, Aldridge caught NBC's attention, and worked the Super Bowl as a sideline reporter. Although he was not bothered by his mental prob­lems on the job, his personal life was unraveling. His wife, Vicki, filed for a divorce that became final in 1982. 

Then the dog-beating inci­dent occurred, making his problems public. 
Aldridge said the delusions became stronger. In 1979 he took a leave of absence from WTMJ and at the end of 1980 he left the station. In 1981, he at­tempted suicide by taking an overdose of sleeping pill:;, but woke up two days later. 
From then until 1984 he roamed the Midwest and South, living and eating where he could. 
Early in 1984, thin and ragged, he showed up in the lobby of the Milwaukee Jour­nal. A reporter heard Aldridge was in the building and per­suaded him to give an inter­view. Aldridge disappeared the day the article ran, but in Au­gust he came back to Mil­waukee. 
Although he previously had resisted medication to combat his problems, Aldridge then decided he would try the drugs. 
lirir~:~:~:~:~:~a~~~:~:~ig~:~:§:f~g~~~~:~:t~~:g~i:~~:?~{:/}}}~:}}}){{{{{{{:}}}~:}}}}}}}}}}}}}~{:}~:~:)}}~:i>l~i! 
••••••••  THE  RAINMAKERS  •••••••  
••••••••  with  Thursday,~  
••••••••. special guests & !INSIDERS  D:~:~:: 3 •••••••• M Tickets $5.00 ••••••••  
••••••••  S~nsored by Student  ••••••••  

Union Board 
lllllll: llllllll
TICKETS MAY BE PURCHASED AT THE CELLAR 
~l.\i:!:~:}~{{{:}}}~:}}}}}};:}}}~{{{{{{:}}}}}}}}}}}}~{{{{:}}}}}}}}}}}}~{)):~:~:}~{{:::}~:~~~::::t~~JJJ!ii 

Wednesday, December 2, 1987 The Observer page 15 

Tim Brown Is leading the way In the race for the Helsman Trophy, to be awarded Saturday. Brian O'Gara details Brown's season In Irish Items beginning on page 20. 

/JC={j{E#J/Rlll~ 
are better with 
Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 


THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Distinguished Scholar Lecture Series 
presents 

Professor Walter J. Tomasch 
Department of Physics 

College coaches admit cheating 
major-college, football pro­grams. Of those, 122 coaches responded, a good ratio for busy people, Cullen said. 
He said 49.2 percent of the questionnaires came from Division I-A coaches and 50.8 percent were from Division 1­AA coaches. 
"There wasn't any bias toward the smaller schools. It was pretty evenly split, so that gives us more confidence in the response," Cullen said. "If you protect the anonymity of the coaches, they're going to be more likely to be honest in their answers." 
"We're not aware of the sur­vey, and so on that basis, it would be inappropriate for us to comment," said spokesman Jim Marchiony at National Col­legiate Athletic Association headquarters in Mission, Kan. 
The NCAA has about 800 member schools nationwide. Membership is voluntary and the schools make the rules, which the NCAA staff must then enforce, Marchiony said. 
players on game day. He works hard every day. He worked hard last Saturday, too. Three catches and 91 total yards is good for most players, but not for a Heisman Trophy can­didate. Three dropped passes are mortal, something Tim Brown had looked anything but this season. He deserves the Heisman Trophy. 
At nearly every post-game press conference this fall, Lou Holtz could be heard saying, "I just can't say enough about Tim Brown." But he sure tried. Here's just some of the deserved praise Holtz dished out about his star. 
"If I was blind, I could still tell when Tim Brown has the football. You can sense it, there's a feeling in the air." 
"It's scary to think of the number of ways Tim Brown can affect a game. He's a win­ner, he's a competitor, and he makes things happen." 
"After three days of spring practice (in 1986), I made the comment that Tim Brown may be the best football player I've ever seen. He has an awareness on the field of what he needs to do. It's nothing you can teach or coach." "He's a marked man." 
"If they were going to give the Heisman Trophy to the out­standing college football player in the country, I thought Timmy Brown should have won it last year." 

In cooperation with the Country Bake Shop of  Simply fill out the below order form  
South Bend, we'll deliver fresh baked goods  & mall to:  
right to your door.  P.l}. Box 191  
N.D., ln. 46556  

"One thing I was impressed with way back in the preseason was when one of our younger players said the thing he ad­mired most about Tim Brown was that, despite all the atten­tion he has recieved and the magazine covers and every­thing, he's still just one of the guys. That must be the ul­timate compliment.'' 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
HELP FIGHT 
BIRTH DEFECTS 

Associated Press to look the other way," said 
Francis T. Cullen, one of three 
CINCINNATI -Nearly one­University of Cincinnati third of NCAA Division I foot­criminologists who conducted ball programs regularly vio­the survey. "But we also have late NCAA regulations and a situation where the bottom when they do, coaches often line is winning, and if they don't look the other way, coaches win, they lose their jobs." told University of Cincinnati The coaches were also polled researchers in a nationwide about substance abuse amongsurvey released Tuesday. student-athletes. They identi­
When cheating takes place, fied alcohol, and then steroids, coaches are usually aware of as the biggest sources of sub­it, the coaches said in respond­stance abuse. The coaches also ing to the survey. identified uses of cocaine and 
But, almost three-quarters of marijuana as serious problems the coaches surveyed also said for athletes. They were not they believe most of their col­asked to say how widespreadleagues are honest, have high they think the drug use is, Cul­ethical standards and want to len said. run clean athletic programs. The coaches were promised The pressure to win is the main anonymity for their responses cause of cheating, according to and provided them in written 
67.2 percent of the surveyed questionnaires. Cullen and col­coaches. leagues Edward J. Latessa and 
"To a large extent, I don't graduate assistant Joseph think the coach is any different Byrne sent the questionnaires than the average person on the out last summer and had them street. By and large, I think back in hand by September, most coaches want to run a with some prompting. clean program with no cheat­Cullen said the question­ing and, in most circum­naires were sent to head stances, don't want to be placed coaches of all 192 NCAA divi­in a position where they have sion I-A and Division I-AA, or 
crowd as Brown hit the 50-yard 
line and the outright ecstasy as 
continued from page 20 he crossed the goal line. That 
play was all the wonderful 
Brown's back-to-hack TD aspects of sport wrapped up in returns against the Spartans the legs, and heart, of one foot­resulted in perhaps the two ball player. most exciting minutes in Notre All season long, Brown has Dame football history. The been saying that the Heisman frenzy Brown created amid the would be wonderful, but his 59,075 in Notre Dame Stadium main goal was for the Irish to on that September evening is win. And they did, more than like a unique gem. The first anyone realistically expected return broke MSU's back. The them to going into the season. second was icing on the cake. 8-3 and a Cotton Bowl bid in While all his blockers were August looked a long distance trying to block the punt, Brown away. took on, and beat, all comers. "He's just one of the guys." 
If any one moment can be Several Irish players could be called the hallmark of Brown's heard making that comment Heisman Trophy year, it would about Notre Dame's star be the second return and the flanker. Lou Holtz has noted emotions it aroused: the silent that Brown is one of the best anticipation as he caught the practice players he's ever ball, the rising roar of the seen. Not just one of the best 
Brown 


Plnse m1ke check p1y1blt to N.D. Student Cllce 

(don't use campus mall)
Service and be sure to Include the mnuge you want 

call 283-2359 todayl
on the Clke. 
Delivery Date.............................. Sen:e~~o~:me

..............................•..." 
Reclplenfs Name & Address ...................;........................._,__ 
Cakes:sizes: &"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.0(1 chocolate half sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(8" only) CHEESECAKES(&"): plain ~10.50 icing: white wl fru1t $12.50 --chocolate(add 1.50) BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen 
PARTY KIT: $2.50-includes plates Doughnuts: Variety Box forks, napkins, cilndles, $4.50 per dozen & a knife 

~--~ ------·-~------------...... 
I' 
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, December 2, 1987 

The Observer I John Studebaker 

The Notre Dame hockey team won three matches 1968. Steve Megargee details the weekend's ac­over the weekend and Is off to Its best start since tion at right. 
tl 
' 
... 
-
.,..• -"1. 
J·'f 
The OBserver 1 John Studebaker 

Giants sign free agent Butler 
• 7 

q 
Associated Press
\ 
SAN FRANCISCO-The San Francisco Giants got the "con­summate leadoff man" they were looking for on Tuesday, to the chagrin of free agent cen­ter fielder Brett Butler's former employer in Cleveland. 
It was the first signing in more than two years of a free agent whose current club had tried actively to keep him. 
The Giants announced the signing of the speedy Butler to a two-year contract on the same day one of their own vet­eran outfielders fulfilled a long­expressed desire to leave. Terms of the pact were not dis­closed. 
The acquisition gives the Na­tional League Western Division champions an anchor at leadoff, where they used a dozen players in 1987. It came just hours after the California Angels announced they had signed Giants free agent Chili Davis. 
The Cleveland Indians issued a statement saying they were "extremely disappointed" with Born in Los Angeles, he lived Butler's decision not to accept in Fremont on the east side of an offer they described as San Francisco Bay for most of "competitive in every way" his childhood and said the move with San Francisco's. is "almost like coming home.", 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC ALJDlTORICIM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
1'1CKna AVM.AIIl.!: AT 11R OVIC A<DTOIIIIIOI IIOX OPOIC!. f"'C»fTWTr'tD (NLD """ NOIII1H
.......... JIWL).-..,....
(DJUW!r).NtDJJt.'I(I.A 
I'Oin!). 
~
..­
1-21,..214-tlto 

Irish hockey takes three; best start since 1968 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Back in 1968, former head 
coach Lefty Smith led his first 
Notre Dame hockey team to an 
11-1-3 start on the way to a final 
record of 16-8-3. 
Ric Schafer, Smith's succes­
sor, is working with his first 
Notre Dame team this season. 
And he is not off to such a bad 
start himself. 
The Irish won three games 
on the road over Thanksgiving 
break, slapping Mercyhurst, 7­
3, on Wednesday and sweeping 
Canisius over the weekend, 5-4 
and 7-4. Notre Dame now 
stands with an 8-1-2 mark, its 
best start since 1968, and is 
riding a seven-game winning 
streak. 
"We came through in the 
third periods of all three 
games," said Schafer. "That's 
what we've had to do all 
season." 
But Schafer was not totally 
pleased with Notre Dame's 
performance against Mer­
cyhurst. Facing a team playing 
its first season of varsity hock­
ey, Schafer started many 
players who had not seen much 
action this season. The Irish 
still scored five second-period 
goals to win, 7-3, as Mercyhurst 
fell to 4-3. 
"We played poorly, but we won against a weaker team," said Schafer. "We played a lot of people who don't normally play, so it was first-game jit­ters for them, but even those players who do play a lot weren't sharp." 
Second-string goalie Marc O'Sullivan, making his first start of the season, recorded 18 saves while allowing three goals. 
The Irish got back in track against Canisius, snapping the Ice Griffs' four-game winning streak. Sophomore wing Bruce Guay's hat trick led the Irish to a 7-4 victory on Saturday. Guay, leading the team with 15 goals, scored six goals in three games last week. 
"Bruce Guay is really having 
a good season, and is scoring 
on a regular basis," said 
Schafer. "The rest of the lines 
are doing well also. We're pass­
ing better and better." 

The Irish dominated the third 
period in Saturday's game, 
scoring three times to break a 
4-4 tie after two periods. Mean­
while, sophomore goalie Lance 
Madson managed 40 saves, 
shutting out the Ice Griffs in 
the third period. 

In Sunday's game, Canisius 
stayed close, but junior Matt 
Hanzel scored with 5: 18 left in 
the game to ice the 5-4 victory. 
"We were very evenly matched teams," said Schafer. "Canisius gets a lot of the bet­ter players from Buffalo. We played well in Buffalo with a few lapses. Fortunately, we're cutting down on our goals against. We're still making the little mistakes that result in goals, but we're cutting down on the big mistakes." 
Notre Dame returns to the JACC on Friday for a big weekend set with American Collegiate Hockey Association rival Michigan-Dearborn, the defending champions and cur­rent leaders of the ACHA. 
SLAP SHOTS-The ACHA, known for · its balance last season, is emerging as a two­team race early this year. Michigan-Dearborn leads with a 3-0-1 league record and a 10­1-3 mark overall. Notre Dame is next at 2-0-2 and 8-1-2, fol­lowed by Kent State (0-2-2, 4­11-3) and Lake Forest (0-3-1, 1­4-1) ... Guay's six goals last week earned him ACHA player-of-the-week honors. Senior center and captain Mike McNeill won the selection last week... Guay leads the team with 15 goals, but McNeill's nine goals and 17 assists give him the team lead in overall points... Nine more points (goals or assists) by McNeill will move him into lOth on the all-time Notre Dame list... Notre Dame has had over 1,000 fans in every one of its home games so far this season . 

Thursday 
Campus Comedy Night 
Friday 0~~ 
n.•(J 

Campus DJ's Bryan Rao -" • Rick Reuter 
9:00-2:00 

DJ's Greg Harris Tom Sloane 
Sunday 12:00-6:00 
Hot Dogs & Chili Dogs!! only $2.00 for all you can eat. 
This is the last weekend we will be open until after break. Thank you to everyone who helped to make this semester such a successll 


Wednesday, December 2, 1987 The Observer page 17 
Detroit will stick with Long 
Bobby Knight coached the Indiana Hoosiers to victory over the Irish last night at The Assembly Hallin Bloomington. Knight's team won the NCAA Championship last season. 
Investment BankingOpportunities at First Boston 
The Irish men's basketball team will look to get on the winning track for the 1987-8 season against Louisville on Saturday. 
Long. I committed myself to that ... because I think that's best for the franchise, that's best for Chuck Long. 
Under Rogers, the Lions have finished 7-9 and 5-11, going 1-4 in their last five games in both 1985 and 1986. This season, the Lions are averaging 17.2 points per game while allowing 27.9. 
That means the losing isn't all Long's fault. 
"Obviously I haven't been around two or three years to get the experience," Long said. "This team has to live with me. But we've got a lot of guys here who don't have a lot of experi­ence. You can blame a quar­terback, but it's not always his fault." 
The Observer 1 Brian Mast 

The First Boston Corporation, a special bracket investment 
banking firm, will be recruiting at the University of Notre Dame for its financial analyst program. All Seniors are cordially invited 
w mel '" ;oro,m•l p<e>em,;oo .od <ecep<;oo. 
Presentation/Reception: 
Wednesday, December 2, 19H7 The Morris Inn (Alumni Room) 7-9 p.m. 

Interviewing schedule: 
Thursday, Fcbrua~· I H, I<JH 

For further information and inquiries 
please feel free to conracr: 
Patrick .\1. Collins (Class of '86 
(312) 750-3096 

The First Boston Corporation 
I'ARK AVENllF. PI.Al.A 135 S. !.A SALLE STREET. #7.lS CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 1\0110.1 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. -Lions Coach Darryl Rogers is taking a lot of heat for sticking with 
quarterback  Chuck  Long  as  
Detroit  struggles  with  a  2-9  
record.  

And though the decision could cost him his job with two years remaining on his five­year contract, Rogers remains convinced it was the right move. 
When the Lions made Long their No.1 pick in the 1986 NFL draft, they envisioned the All­American from Iowa as the player who would turn the fran­chise around. 
But the rebuilding plan stalled almost immediately when held out in a con­tract dispute, missed all of camp and played very little in his rookie year. The season was wasted. 

So the Lions, who view 1987 as Long's first year, decided to make up for lost time and get Long all the playing time pos­sible. As a result, he has taken every snap, except in the three strike games. 
"Obviously, I could change quarterbacks," Rogers said. "Joe Ferguson's got the expe­rience. But I said from the beginning the only way to get Chuck Long experience, good and bad, is to go with him and live with him. 
"We are sacrificing winning right now to develop a quarter­back for down the road. I said that when we drafted Chuck 
continued from page 20 
wards said. "They were looking for me because they were packing it in on Dean (Garrett, who finished with 12). I wasn't nervo•1s. They wasn't anything to be nervous about. You just go out there and do what you can do and try hard." 
Another Hoosier player who knows about shooting under pressure, Keith Smart (who led Indiana with 18), was also im­pressed with Edwards' calm­
00CK)000000000000 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR $KI ORGANIZATION. 
SPECIAL OUTDOOR LEISURE OPPORTUNITIES. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 289·9216 ASK FOR ll~ 

ness in the crunch. 
"When he was checking into the game," Smart recalled, "everyone was saying. 'Jay, calm down, Jay do this.' I said, 'Jay, you know how to play bas­ketball. Just go out and play.' He acknowledged that and went out and played." 
Edwards' heroics over­shadowed a near-great com­eback for the Irish, led by Rivers. The senior scored six points in narrowing the lead and one of his misses was con­verted into a dunk by Mark Stevenson. Unfortunately it wasn't enough. 
"There was never any doubt in our minds we could play with them," said Rivers, who scored a game-high 24 points. "Provided you take away some of our key mistakes, maybe it's a different game. We just lost our composure, made dumb 
mistakes, and it  cost  us  the  
game."  
Irish  head  coach  Digger  

Phelps was generally pleased with his team's performance, except in the crunch. 
NORTH MERIDAN INN 
1530 N. Meridan 

Indianapolis, IN 46202 
collect (31 7) 634-6100 
BANK ONE BIG FOUR 
CLASSIC SPECIAL: 
December 5th $35 plus tax (1-4 to a room) *Busing prearranged through Sales 

"I felt that in the last five 
minutes we didn't do some 
things right at both ends," 
Phelps said. "Edwards came 
in and gave them the spark 
they were looking for. We knew 
he could shoot. We just didn't 
get him covered. 
"In the second half we had four possessions where we didn't score. I like the way we came back when we were down 14 and cut it to four. I felt we had a chance to win when we cut it to four." 
The Irish went into the locker room at the half trailing 38-33 after closing to within a point with 1: 25 to play. When Rivers stepped on the sideline with nine seconds remaining and the Irish dowr 36-33, Smart took a pass from Steve Eyl, who had finished the game with a surprising 16 points, and hit a driving 12-footer to give the Hoosiers their five-point lead. 
Notre Dame had hung tough with Indiana in the opening half after trailing by as many as eight in the early going. The Irish went to a 2-3 zone which they would stick with for most of the way. But the primary reason for staying with the Hoosiers in the first half was Rivers. 
The senior hit three succes­sive shots from beyond the three-point line to put the Irish ahead by one, 21-20. Rivers scored 14 in the half. 
The Irish opened their big­gest lead at the 6: 16 mark when Keith Robinson hit a jumper in the lane to put the Irish up 26­22, but the Hoosiers came back behind Smart, Garrett and Kreigh Smith, outscoring the Irish 16-7 the rest of the half. 
The Hoosiers came storming out in the second half, opening up a 14-point lead by the 11: 15 mark. 



page 18

i~ 
Bo keeps both sports in professional plans 
Associated Press 

I. 
SEATTLE-Bo Jackson, who charged into NFL prominence in just his fifth game, does not want choose between football and baseball--at least not right now. 
After his team-record 221­yard rushing performance led the Los Angeles Raiders to a 37-14 victory over the Seattle Seahawks Monday night, Jack-

H 
i son said he had not given any jl thought to giving up his ·' baseball career with theI! Kansas City Royals. 
.. 
"I have to do what Bo wants to do," he said. "I'll decide that when the time comes. Why should I think about it? I'm having too much fun." 
On his 25th birthday, Jackson carried the ball 18 times, in-eluding a 91-yard touchdown run in the second quarter that put the Raiders ahead 21-7 and broke the Seahawks' spirit. It equalled the eighth longest touchdown run from scrim­mage in the NFL's history. 
In addition, Jackson caught a 14-yard touchdown pass from Marc Wilson. Seahawks ful­1back John L. Williams, who played at Florida, had seen it all before. 
"I watched him for four years when he was in college," Williams said of the 1985 Reis­man Trophy winner from Auburn. "He did the same thing there. Nobody could stop him. If he got a step on you, he's gone." 
Brian Bosworth, Seattle's $11 million rookie linebacker, was astounded. Jackson has run the 40-yard dash in 4.125 seconds. 
"I run a 4.5," said Bosworth. "He got out there on the dead run and outran everybody. It's one of those Hall of Fame runs." 
"I've never seen a running back like that," said rookie linebacker Tony Woods. "We weren't sure how good he was, but we found out." 
"He was unbelievable," said Seahawks' nose tackle Joe Nash. "He ran over us." 

! 
To the surprise of everybody, Jackson bypassed the NFL last' season after Tampa Bay made him the No. 1 draft choice. { To the surprise of almost everybody, Raiders' owner Al
I 
Davis enticed Jackson into the NFL for a five-year, $7.4 mil­lion contract, including a $500,000 signing bonus this year and a $500,000 signing bonus next year. 
Tha1ks to you... it works ... for AU. OFUS 
Unitedway
• 



Jackson's original Kansas City contract, a three-year con­tract ending after the 1988 season, had an escape clause that allowed him to buy out the contract by July 1, 1987 and again by July 1, 1988. That provision was waived when the Royals allowed him to sign with the Raiders. 
"I don't want credit," said 
Davis, who had suffered 
through seven straight defeats. 
"I just want to win. Signing 
people is nothing." 
Two years ago, the 6-foot-1 Jackson hit the longest home run ever hit at Royals Stadium. 
He played well in the first half of the 1987 baseball season as the Royals' starting left fielder but slumped badly in the second half and was benched for the final month. 
Jackson's 221-yard rushing performance, lOth best in NFL history, broke the Raiders' single-game rushing mark of 200 yards set by Clem Daniels 


AP Photo
in 1963. 

Los Angeles running back and Kansas City out­son says he will continue to play both profes­
At 4-7, the Raiders will miss 

the playoffs. With Jackson, fielder Bo Jackson led the Raiders to victory on sional football and baseball. 
however, their future is bright. Monday with a record-setting performance. Jack-f:!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!i!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!lt 


Wednesday, December 2, 1987 The Observer page 19 
Campus 
12:10 p.m. -1 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
3:30p.m.: Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Solidification of Binary Substances," by Professor Frank Incropera, Purdue University. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:30 p.m.: Air Force ROTC Cadet Awards Ceremony, Hesburgh LibraryAuditorium. 6 p.m.: Communal celebration of reconciliation, Regina Chapel. 7 p.m. & 9 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film, "Pretty in Pink," directed by Howard Deutch, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m.: Presentation-Reception for all students interested in discovering career opportunities with The First Boston Corporation, sponsored by Career and Place­ment Services, Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
7 p.m.: Collegiate Jazz Festival meeting for interested workers, speaker: Chair­man David Thornton, Student Union Board Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 
7:30p.m.: Prayer service for peace in Central America, sponsored by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry and the South Bend Pledge of Resistance, Regina Hall chapel <Saint Mary's). 
8 p.m.: Department of Philosophy Perspective Lecture, Part II. Theme: The Rational Reasoner, "Maximazation and Constraint," by Professor David Gaut­
hier. Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Club Sandwich Veal Parmesan Spaghetti w!ltalian Sauce Chili Casserole 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet wA'arsley Sauce BBQ Beef Cheesy Potato Deli Bar 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 

Comics 
Bloom County 
eKC(/~6 /(If~ 
MAPIIM •. 
liN €/fiM&eNCY­
1 

Beernuts 
t.lT's T!IK£ /IIJR[AK ff!JH 
TODA.Y'S fXUTIN& NOTRE PAM[-MIAMI GIIM£ TO 
VISIT THE 8EIIIJT!FtJ/.... UtMPVS£5 OF BOTH .YJf.X>L.S 
·.


Of/(( VtH!Ct£ 15 511/CK IINP WE COf/t../1 
1/5~ A t.lmE MORG WE16HT RJf< 
1!(ACnON. 
f 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  
1 Lamb's sire  
4 Impish 9 Lessen  
14 Comic Olsen  
15 Not  a  soul  
16 Where the  
Brazos flows  
17 Mal de  - 
18 Way  to fry  
eggs  
20 Hobbles  
22  Raised  
railways  
23 Fashions  
24 Repairs a roof 28 Facilitate  
29 Tater  
31  Affaire  
d'honneur  
32 Carry  on  
34  Disgrace  
35  Pale  tan  
36  Eccentric  
37  Hue  
38 Stanley of  
films  
39 Semester 41 Affirms  © 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  12/02/87  
42 Gypsy gentlemen 43 Butter  4 Followed 5 An Armstrong  
substitute  6 Baptismal  
44 Muddle  basin  
45 Relatives  7 Taverns  
46 Packages again  8 Fr. marshal 9 On a slant  
46  Llama-like  10  - manner  
51  mammal "Honest -"  (doctor's attitude)  
52 Student  11  Lizzie  
54 Pirate flags  Borden's  
58 Small amount  weapon  
59 Racetracks  12 Gr. letter  
60 61  Stage Miss Arden  13 Sixth 19 Farm  sense  
62 Cooper and  machines  
Carter 63 Bushed  21 Long cut 24 Hearsay  12/02/87  
64 In the -(hard up)  25 7 to some 26 Spooky 27 Squalid urban  33 An Astalre 34 Go hurriedly 40 With virtue  50 Fed the kitty 52 Alphabet run 53 Raise  
DOWN  areas  42 Well-heeled  54 Trot  
1 Frolics 2 Certain  29 Jostles 30 Loses color  45 Bussed 47 Chasm  55 Eggs 56 Roman house­ 
Alaskan 3 Prankster  32 Helicopter part  46 Light poetry 49 Ingenuous  hold god 57 Choose  


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
HOW ttJN(/5 HI. 11115 6tJNNA 
NO 5/o/OW Tf/K6 ~ 
trf(£5. \ \ 
Mark Williams 




SUB Presents: THE MUPPETS TAKE MANHATTAN $1.00 admissionWednesday & Thursday Cushing Auditorium 7:00, 9:00, 11 :OOpm  



" 
,-_
l.'-., 
., Sports
Wednesday, December 2, 1987 page 20 

The Observer I Brian Mast 
David Rivers takes the ball down the court. Rivers effort against Indiana. led the Irish with 24 points In Notre Dame's losing 

Runners beat the odds at NCAAs 
tloosiers top Irish 
1n seasonopener 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN set him up to shoot," Indiana 
Sports Editor head coach Bob Knight said. 
"It was a flip of the game whe­
BLOOMINGTON While ther to put (Lyndon) Jones or 
snow was swirling outside In­Edwards in. We put Edwards 
diana University's Assembly in for his rangy arms, and we 
Hall, the Notre Dame basket­thought he would be the best 
ball team was hit by a sudden defensively and for handling 
6-4 storm named Jay Edwards the ball." 
Indeed, Edwards made some 
Edwards, a freshman, came fine defensive plays in the 
off the Indiana bench to score stretch, especially blocking a 
12 points, 10 in the last 5:07, to David Rivers driving shot, 
lead the 5th-ranked Hoosiers to scooping up a loose ball and 
a 76-59 win over the Irish. feeding it down court for an 
Notre Dame had cut a 54-40 easy basket when the Irish 
lead to 60-56 on a Gary Voce were scrambling to get back 
3-point play with 5:50 remain­into the game. But it was the 
ing, but from there Edwards coolness that the former Co­
buried the Irish with a scoring Mister Basketball of Indiana 
blizzard. He hit a jumper to put showed in shooting down Notre 
the Hoosiers up by six and fol­Dame that was most impres­
lowed with a three-pointer sive. 
from the left wing to increase "T got in a rhythm," Ed-
the lead to 65-56. Indiana never 
looked back. see IRISH, page 17 
"I wish I could tell you we. 
By MOLLY MAHONEY must have taken hold. The And all this success came Sports Writer Irish, led by senior captain Dan from a team that did not win a Garrett, charged to the finish single invitational meet the en­The secret is out. line ahead of most of the tire season. In fact, the team Now everyone knows--or talented teams competing. had to overcome the loss of 


should know--that the Notre Garrett placed fifth overall in several key runners to injury Dame men's cross country the team competition and sixth early in the season and endure team rose from anonymity to individually (one runner several lineup changes before capture seventh place in the qualified as an individual and it finally found the magic com­NCAA Championships held ran without a team). bination in the District meet. Nov. 23 in Charlottesville, Va. Junior Ron Markezich and "I've always told the guys 
Before this year, the team's sophomore Mike O'Connor con­our front three (runners) are potential was a well-kept se­tinued where they left off at the as good as anybody," said cret. Even after the Irish end of the season, placing 32nd Piane, "but it is how well your 

I, earned the chance to join the and 48th respectively in the fourth and fifth runners do that 22-team field at the national team competition. They contin­is important, and the guys rose championship meet, the team ued to be the models of consis­to that challenge." was still greeted with looks of tency the Irish depended on all The Irish had a little incen­surprise and doubt. season. tive going into the meet as they 

"We shocked the hell out of Freshmen Ryan Cahill (78th) arrived in Charlottesville to some people," said Irish head and Pat Kearns (lOlst}, senior find that they were ranked 21st coach Joe Piane, "but I told the Rick Mulvey (96th) and sopho­among the 22 teams in the field. guys if they continue to race more Tom Macken (149th) "Everyone overlooked us," and run as well as they had dashed across the University of said Garrett, whose perfor­been they could be in the top Virginia's Foxfield Course to mance earned him All-The Observer 1 Mike Moran 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team finish seventh In the
ten in the nation." complete an impressive perfor­
see GARREn, page 14 

nation at the NCAA meet on Nov. 23.
These words of encouragement mance by the Irish contingent. 


J Surprise! Brown leads Heisman field 
Will he still win it? azine covers and headlines have been wonderful to Tough numbers to match, but he nearly did. 

What looked like a sure bet for Tim Brown in the Brown, but he's proven his own case on the football Despite intense scrutiny from the opposition, he Reisman Trophy voting now is a question mark field. Though he is no longer the clear-cut favorite, picked up 1,846 total yards and scored seven touch­after a subpar performance against Miami. A one­I still feel the majority of Reisman voters will agree downs, all in the season's first seven games. And man runaway will be a somewhat closer race be­on their ballots that No. 81 is simply the best college listen up Gordie, he even had two tackles. Lock­tween the five finalists-Brown, Holy Cross' Gordie football has to offer this year. baum~s 18 tackles, incidentally, are fewer than Lockbaum, Michigan State's Lorenzo White, Not that it doesn't have much to offer. MacPher­every Notre Dame starter's total tackles. Two-way Syracuse's Don MacPherson and Pittsburgh's son has led the Cinderella-like Orangemen to an standout? Not exactly. Craig Heyward. 
Brown is mainly a receiver on a running team. 
Three dropped passes and 91 all-purpose yards His specialty is open-field running, but that too was
Brian

for the Notre Dame senior flanker gave hope to thwarted when opponents kicked away from him, those other four outstanding players, who joined which happened nearly every game. Those foolish 
O'Gara

CBS at halftime of the Miami-Notre Dame game to enough not to would pay the price. express their thoughts on who should capture the "I think we may have enhanced Tim Brown's
Irish Items

prize of New York's Downtown Athletic Club. The chances for the Reisman Trophy," said Air Force vote was split -two for MacPherson, two for head coach Fisher DeBerry. "What a weapon that Heyward. Not one of them voted for himself. Not undefeated season and Sugar Bowl bid. Heyward, young man is." one of them voted for Tim Brown. And not one of otherwise known as Ironhead, has run for 1,655 "He broke our back," said Michigan State's them was right. yards. White has led the Spartans to the Rose Bowl George Perles. "If there is someone who has played 
Looking at the entire 1987 college football season, with 14 touchdowns, and Lockbaum has piled up a better game than Tim did this season, I'm glad there has been no better performer than Brown. He 2,000 total yards and played on both sides of the I wasn't on the field to see it." shoutd win the Reisman Trophy on Saturday. The line. But none of them is a better football player Both these coaches saw No. 81 run past them en impact of his play against the Hurricanes and than Brown. route to three punt returns for touchdowns. Brown's recent disillusion with the selection process will not If the voters choose Brown, it will cap off a returns gave the Irish great field position all year. be known until the winner is announced at 5:30p.m. remarkable chapter in Irish football history, one Notre Dame stadium concession stands probably on CBS. Isn't it funny how the media, the same which features one of the most exciting players had a tough time with sales this fall, because Irish people who have built Tim Brown up all year, is ever in Notre Dame's 100-year and six-Heisman fans never knew when he would break the big one. now saying that the media should not be allowed winner history. Mter Michigan State, no play was safe to miss. to create a Reisman winner? Well, it should not, As an All-American in 1986 Brown gained 1,937 

see BROWN, page 15
but it will always hold the power of the pen. Mag-all-purpose yards and scored nine touchdowns. 
·---­

