
----------~---~ ~---~--~---­

Medals awarded in equestrian competition 
By LIZ PANZICA Observer Staff 
In the finals of the Equestrian dres­sage competition Wednesday, Oregon's Darrell Sander took the gold, Louisiana's Michelle Brown received the silver, and Vince Malloy of Pen­nslyvania captured the bronze. 
Highlighting the Intermediate divi­sion action in Class 31A, Dorell Lawrence of Jamaica won the gold, Beth Ann Howe of Connecticut took the silver and Virginia Lichnovsk of Cali­fornia received a bronze. 
In Class 31B of the Intermediate divi­sion, Sabrina Pulling received a gold and Joyce Bobbitt of the Pennslyvania delegation was second. Bruce Adelburg from Florida took the bronze for his third place finish. 
Dressage competition involves a set routine of walks, trots, and turns similar to the compulsories involved in figure skating. 
The advance and intermediate divi­sions differ by the amount of direction that the rider receives while perform­ing. While the intermediate rider needs to be told what action comes next, the advanced the rider will usually have memorized his routine, though he still has the option of having some one call out directions. 
All the horses used in the Equestrian events were loaned to the Summer Games by area horse owners. The horses are stabled in a temporary tent on the St.Mary's Campus. Olympians are riding a variety of breeds in com­petition including Arabians, Ap­palusas, Paints and Quarter Horses. 
Dr. Ecker, a local veterinarian , was impressed by the special olympians' skill. She said, "Putting them on horses they have never seen before is tough. When you talk about regular competi­tion, the Olympic riders ride for years on the same horse, so this is phenomenal." 
" The coaches try hard also. You have to compare the horses, the riders and the coaches as a team," she said. 
Ecker was thrilled when Dorell Lawrence won a gold medal while riding her horse, Fay. She said to Dorell, "Thank you for making my horse look so good." 
Dorell had only been riding for 18 months but handled her mount with skill. The head of the Jamaician delaga­tion called Dorell's performance the "best birthday gift I have ever wanted. What else could I have desired." 
After the competition there was a parade of horses, their grooms and at­tentants. Ecker said "The J amaician delagation took such good care of my horse there isn't a spot on him." 
Wednesday was the final day of equestrian competition. About 34 Olym­pians competed in the demonstration sport, including riders from Jamaica and Belgium. 
'­

The Observeri¥red Dobie A Californian is challenged by the 400 meter race walk during yesterday's ath­letics competition at Cartier Field. 
N.C. leads wheelchair competition 
By JIM RILEY Observer Staff 
North Carolina wheelchair athletes collected a silver and three gold medals during the last two days of competition. 
In Wednesday's lOOm wheelchair competition, Keith Bordeaux of Wil­mington took the gold medal in the 17-21 age group with a time of 51.1 seconds. 
Bordeaux hung the medal around his neck along with the other gold he won Tuesday in the 25m race. 
Michael Lee of Johnston Co. won the silver medal in Wednesday's lOOm com­petition in the 14-16 age bracket. His time was 55.6 seconds. 
Lee also now has two medals to his credit, having won the gold medal in 
the 25m race in his age bracket Tuesday with a time of 12.9 seconds. The athletes will compete today in the 30m slalom at 2:30p.m. Jesse Spain also will compete today in the motorized wheelchair division. 
Motorized wheelchair athletes race over a 23m obstacle course, according to Howard Campbell, the North Carolina coach. He said the course begins with a 360 degree turn in a small marked area. The athlete then maneuvers through two sets of cones which are lm apart. He finishes up with another 360 degree turn and a 10m sprint to the finish line. 
Campbell, who has worked with spe­cial athletes for 17 years, said his team is made up of "kids who have won local or state competitions." The team tries to pick athletes from all the counties in North Carolina, Campbell said. 
Bordeaux had to race Wednesday without the gloves he usually wears to protect his hands, having left them be­hind at his room. But he may race with­out them again today. "I had a better grip without the gloves," he said. 
Both Bordeaux and Lee said they would do more than merely try to win medals today. "What do you mean try?" Bordeaux said. "I'm gonna get 
'em."  
And Lee rai sed his right  arm  and  
said,  "I  will  bring  home  the  gold  
again."  

Table tennis divisions determined 
By PETE G~GEN Observer Staff 
Preliminary matches in Table Tennis 
competition were held Wednesday mor­
ning to determine the four divisions. 
The highlight of the morning games was a match pitting Hua Long-Bing of the People's Republic of China against Cheng Yuen Ting of Hong Kong. Evenly matched, Long-Bing won the match, 24­22, 21-19. 
Long-Bing stayed on the defensive, 
cutting his shots, which many times 
caused Ting to overshoot, sending the 
ball over the end of the table. 
Victor Nee, manager for the Table 
Tennis competiton, pointed out that 
both players were cutting the ball, but 
when Ting tried to take the offensive, 
he had to hit the ball higher to get it 
over the net, and usually the ball would 
fly over the end of the table. 
Table Tennis is a demonstration sport 
this year for Special Olympics. Nee, an 
engineering professor at Notre Dame 
and the South Bend area champion in 
the sport, has coordinated Table Tennis 
competition for the Junior Olympics in 
the past, and is now trying to promote 
the sport for Special Olympics. 
"It is becoming very popular in the 
United States," said Nee, "because the 
'88 Olympics are being held in Korea 
and for the first time table tennis is an 
official Olympic sport." 
"In the U.S. table tennis is a social 
game as opposed to a sport," added 
Nee. "But for us, it is just like a ra­
quetball game." 
In fact, the racquetball mentality is 
making a mark in the Americanization 
of table tennis. Most American players 
use a regular racquet grip, as opposed 
to the penholder grip popular among 
most foreign players. 
The final rounds of the competition, 
which began yesterday, continue this 
morning in the auxiliary gym above 
Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. 
The Observer ISSOG Issue Thursday, August 6, 1987 -page 2 

~P>'""' 
Aquatic 7:30a.m. -8:30a.m. Head Coaches meeting 9:00-1:00 p.m. 
Finals 
25m Freestyle 
lOOm Backstroke 
4 x 50m Freestyle Relay 2:00p.m.-6:00p.m. 
Finals 
25m Backstroke 
15m Unassisted Swim 

athletics Urack & l•eldl 
Athletics 
8:00 a.m. -8:45 a.m. 
Athletics Coaches Meeting ( astro-turf) 
Finals 9:00a.m. -10:00 a.m. 110m Race Walk 9:00a.m. -10:30 a.m. Shot Put (Pentathlon) 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. BOOm Run 
10:30 a.m. -11:30 a.m. Ball Throw Castro-turf) 10:30 a.m. -2:20p.m. 
High Jump (Pentathlon) (4 pits) 
12:00 p.m. -1:00 p.m. lOOm dash 3:00p.m. -3:30p.m. 
30m Wheelchair Slalom Race 4:00p.m.-5:00p.m. 
Frisbee Throw for Distance (softball sectors) 4:00p.m.-6:00p.m. 
lOOm dash 
5:00p.m.-7:00p.m. Shot Put C4 circles) Wheelchair Shot Put 
Castro-turf) 6:00p.m. -8:00p.m. 1500m Run 
~ 
basketball 
Basketball 
8:30a.m. -12:30 p.m. Team Competition Darden School Clay High School 
8:30a.m. -12:30 p.m. Team Competition St. Joseph High School 
1:15 p.m. Clinics ACC 8:30a.m. -10:00 p.m. Team Competition ACC Arena Auxiliary Gym Basketball Information 
Center Ace Gate 1 

gymnast•cs 
Gymnastics 
8:30 a.m. -Gymnasium opens for warm-ups 9:50a.m. -Parade of Athletes 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Finals -Level I AA 
Compulsories Floor Exercises Vault Uneven Bars Balance Beam 
12:00 p.m. -1:30 p.m. Clinic (Rhythmic) . 
12:30 p.m. -Gymnasmm opens for warm-ups 
1:50 p.m. -Parade of Athletes 2:00p.m.-5:00p.m. 
Finals -Level II AA 
Compulsories Floor Exercises Vault Balance Beam Uneven Bars Parallel Bars High Bars 
5:30p.m. -Gymnasium opens for warm-ups 6:50p.m. -Parade of Athletes 7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. 
Finals -Level III AA 
Optionals Floor Exercises Vault Uneven Bars Balance Beam Parallel Bars High Bars Rhythmic Pommel Horse 
Highlight Night 

soccer 
Soccer 10:00 a.m. -4:00p.m. Medal Games 7:00p.m. Highlight Night-Parade of Champions 
softball 
Soft hall 10:30 a.m. -5:30p.m. Tournament Competition 

howhng 
Bowling 1:00 p.m. -5:00p.m. Team Competition 
-7'--: 
roller skating 
Rollerskating 8:00a.m. Volunteer Check In 9:00a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
Finals 300m 500m 
12:00 p.m. -Lunch break 1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. Finals 
200m 3:00p.m. -Session over 
Clinics Rowing (Open) St. Mary's Lake 
9:00 a.m. -noon 1:00 p.m.-4:00p.m. Sailing COpen) 
St. Joseph's Lake 9:00p.m. -noon 1:00 p.m.-4:00p.m. 
Team Handball (Open) St. Mary's Field 
10:30 a.m. -11:00 a.m. 
Raquetball (Athletes Only) ACC Raquetball Courts 
10:00 a.m. -noon 1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. 
Athletics (AthleteS!Coaches) Softball Venue 
10:30 a.m. -11:00 a.m. Softball Throw 
Baseball Field 6:00p.m-6:45p.m. Racewalking Technique 
Cartier Field (Astroturf) 
6:00 p.m. -6:45 p.m. Pentathlon Training Aquatics (Open) 
Rolfs Aquatics Center noon-1:00 p.m. Let's Play To Grow 
Rolfs Aquatics Center 1:00 p.m.-2:00p.m. Basic Skills 
Volleyball (AthleteS!Coaches) 
Angela Athletic Facility 7:00p.m. -8:00p.m. Basic Skills 
Golf Burke Putting Green 
10:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. Basic Skills 
10:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. Exhibition Equestrian 
4-H Fair 6:30p.m. Jumping!Vaulting 
Exhibition Circular Zoneball 
Saint Mary's Field 9:00p.m. -10:00 p.m. Instructional Clinic 
(Staff/Public) Saint Mary's Field 
10:00 p.m. -12:00 p.m. QuestiolVAnswer Session (Public) 
Saint Mary's Field 1:00 p.m.-2:00p.m. Training Clinic (Special. 
Olympians) 
Saint Mary's Field 6:00p.m.-7:00p.m. StafWolunteer 
Exhibition Game Basketball ACC 1: 15 p.m. 
Ball Handling Exhibition Gymnastics (Athletes) 
ACC noon-1:30 p.m. Rhythmic 
Let's Play To Grow 
Expo Center Room 114 2:00p.m.-3:00p.m. Introduction 
South Dining Hall 
11:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. Demonstration (Outdoor Games) 
Expo Center Theatre 3:00p.m.-4:00p.m. Demonstration 
(MusiC'Movement) 
ACC 6:30p.m.-6:45p.m. Highlight Night 
(Movement Exploration) Soccer Covalesky Baseball 
Stadium 6:00p.m.-8:00p.m. All-Star Game 
Tennis· (Open) Courtney Tennis Fields Basic Skills 


~ ---·----------------~· 
! 
Gymnast stars provide clinics for athletes 
The Observer/Jim Carroll 
By KIM YURATOVAC Observer Staff 
Seventy special olympians practiced stretches, splits, and straddles in yes­terday's gymnastics clinic at the ACC. Leading the event were olympic gym­nasts Bart Conner, Mary Lou Ret ton and Tracee Talavera, as well as Pan American Games gymnasts Robert Brown and Mike Rice. 
The clinic began with a warm-up which reinforced the correct ways of stretching, jumping and tumbling. The workout progressed into other floor ex­ercises, including forward rolls, back­ward rolls and cartwheels. 
Robert Brown is an alternate to the Pan American gymnastics team. He took a break from practicing for the Pan American Games to participate in yesterday's clinic and last night's ex­hibition. The clinic was Brown's first experience with Special Olympics, but he doesn't think it will be his last. 
"I hope I get a chance do more things like this. I wish I had as much energy as these athletes. Their reactions are 
Olympian's gold medal victory adds to country's rich image 
By TRIPP BALTZ and LIZ PANZICA Observer Staff 
Virginia Giancecchi stands proudly on the winners platform and receives a gold medal in athletics. With her vic­tory the tiny republic of San Marino adds another treasure to its nation's riches. 
San Marino is a miniscule land­locked country confined in the borders of Italy. It has a population of 22,332 and covers an area of only 12 sq. miles. 
Yet, from San Marino comes a for­midable delegation of 11 athletes who have already racked up 6 gold, 4 silver and 2 bronze medals. 
"We're very pleased with every­thing," said Nubbia Reggini, a San Marino coach. 
The team has athletes competing in cycling, gymnastics, swimming and track and field events. One athlete, Monica Ghiotti, alone has captured 2 gold medals and one silver. 
Reggini said the team was very pleased with its performance in Wed­nesday's swimming events: they earned three silver medals. One of the medals was won by Pier Giorgio always positive. They're always thumbs up and all smiles. 
According to Brown, the most impor­tant factor in gymnastics clinics is safety. "Most of the athletes are aware of safety factors, but we have to make sure that they all know the proper procedures so that when they fall, they don't get hurt." 
South Bend special olympian Don Berndt was especially impressed with Bart Conner. "I just met him and he acts like he's a friend. It's like we went to school together or something." 
Berndt, who has already earned three gold medals and one silver at the Games, sings the praises of Special Olympics: "It makes me feel like I belong as a human being in the world. It's touching to have people to make me feel like I belong. It's great to have a few days like this, but I wish the world could always be this way." 
Berndt, at age 35, is the oldest male gymnast competing in the Games. He will continue to compete in the rest of the Level II finals which resume today. Finals for Level I, II and III finish today. 
Giovagnoliin the 25 meter freestyle, who was proud of his performance Wed­nesday night. Giovagnoli won the silver medal for both the 25 and 50 meter events at the 1985 Special Games in Dublin. 
This is the second time San Marino has participated in the International Games. At the 1985 Games in Baton Rouge, coach Renata Ferrari helped guide the team. She approves of this year's site as well. "It's beautiful," she said. "The people here are nice." 
Reggini, who coaches cycling as a substitute, said San Marino's swiftest bike racer was disoriented by an inci­dent in Monday's 5 kilometer race that may have cost him a medal in the race. 
Roberto Gattei started the race as directed by a track official, then was told to wait because a fire truck was crossing the race path. Reggini said "It caused Roberto to get off to a bad start." 
Gattei still had a reason to celebrate: his teammate, Antonio Guerra, won the gold in that race. 
Reggini said Gattei and Guerra have been working very hard the last few months, having started training for the Games in November. San Marino is characterized by hilly landscape, she 
l 
The Observer-5uzanne Poch Olympic gymnast Bart Conner joined forces with fellow olympic medalists Tracee Talavera and Mary Lou Retton in yesterday's gymnastic's clinic. 
said. The two cyclists practiced on the high inclines as well as flatter ground. 
As the bikers work out, Reggini fol­lows them in a car. "Sometimes their practice is all uphill," she said. Reggini said her car would be in first gear as the bikers rode up these inclines. 
The Federation of the Disabled of the Republic of San Marino was founded in 1984. Its purpose is to sponsor and sup­port the athletes. The athletes on this year's team practiced in state-owned facilities in San Marino. 

Cycling events finished yesterday with 15 kilometer finals and awards. The events were held on the campus of Saint Mary's College. 
Medals won in gymnastics 
By KIM YURATOVAC Observer Staff 
Level III gymnastics resumed Wed­nesday with final competitions. Scores from the morning's compulsory and the afternoon's optional events were added together to determine the medal win­ners for each event. 
Actor Dick Sargent and basketball player Bill Scheu presented the medals. In the men's age 22-99 floor exercises, Ireland's Joseph Carolan captured first place with his crowd-pleasing perfor­mance. Edward Michael McGray of Massachusetts got second, and David Scott McGray earned third. 
In the women's age 22-99 floor exer­cises, Ireland's Rita Lawlor took first, Brazil's Ana Maria Jesus won second, and Dana Lynn Nothwang of Washing­ton got third. 
The Irish, led by standouts Rita Lawlor, Jean Reilly and Joseph Carolan, not only competed well, but were well represented by a crowd of flag-waving fans. 
Carolan, a native of Dublin, was surprised at his success. 
"I didn't expect to win," he said. "I knew what I was up against and I felt pressured. I've really been under pres­sure the whole way." 
Carolan received a 7.65 rating in vaulting and 9.15 in the parallel bar competition. 
"I'd like to give someone else a chance to win," he said. "The same people can't always win. I think it would be better if there were no scores in Spe­cial Olympics. It puts too much pres­sure on everyone." 
-----~~-,---~---­
~--------~--------------~----,._--­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Thursday, August 6, 1987 -page 4 
Record setting athlete shows quality of Games 

By PAT HANNON Observer Staff 
The International Summer Special Olympics Games is known as a festival that brings numerous athletes from all over the world together to compete, but this is not to say that the field lacks athletes of high quality. 
Eric Ramon Tosado stands as tes­timony to this fact as he ran to an un­official record time of 9:38 in the 3000m run. 
Despite the fact that he has only been running for three years, this 18-year-old representative of the Puerto Rican delegation has an affinity for setting records. 
His history includes a past record of running to a 1983 400m mark of 53.06 seconds, winning 47 trophies through local road races, and, just recently, set­ting an unofficial Special . Olympics record of 9:38 in the 3000m run. Tosado will attempt to lengthen his already long list of impressive credentials by attempting to break the unofficial record time of 4:22 in today's 1500m run. 
Under the guidance of coach Tomas Morales, Tosado has overcome a his­tory of discrimination because of his disability and has come to find that run­ning is a central component of his life. 
Carmen Arzan, executive director of the Puerto Rican delegation, stated, "Running is his life. He will sleep just four hours and not eat so we can train.'' 
Morales, his coach, said, "He's a very organized athlete, intense in par­ticipation, and will do it better the next time. He has worked hard and is well prepared." 
Tosado follows a regimen of running twice a day and alternates between run­ning 10 miles on the track and running 12 miles cross country. In addition, due to Morales, he keeps a detailed log of his miles in order to chart his progress while tapering for the more important races by increasing his speed workouts. 
Tosado has come a long way, al­though he claims to run "in order to clear my mind and compete." 
Arzan said, "He runs to compete and get better. He doesn't run to win, but he has the ability, so he does." Arzan added, "He has discovered a new world in distance running." 
As a gifted athlete, Tosado runs to compete against the other athletes but finds just as much satisfaction in the fact that he runs for his country. Arzan said, "He feels honored to represent Puerto Rico and appreciates the oppor­tunity to compete. His family helps him." 
Athletics for Tosado, from a family of four children, is not a matter of per­sonal records and trophies, but rather an opportunity to run for his country and family. 
Marilu Roman, his mother, said, "I'm proud of him. He always liked to run, and it's the biggest thing that he runs well." 
With that, Tosado will attempt to break the 4: 22 unofficial record in the for the 1500m run at 6 p.m. today on Monogram Track. 
Tosado's strategy, Arzan said, "will be to study the athletes in front of him and decide what to do when he sees the others breathe hard." 
He may be tired from his 3000m per­formance, but Tosado said he will, with the help of his family and friends, "shoot for the record." 



Coolness brings relief, top awards 
By SUSAN MULLEN Observer Staff 
The onset of cooler temperatures not only brought relief from the heat, but it also marked the end of long hours of anticipation for participants in the track and field events as medals and ribbons were awarded to top competi­tors in the 30m wheelchair slalom, the 400m dash, 2k walk and 400m walk. 
The two tents behind Cartier Field acted as transition points where ath­letes were ushered immediately after their events. There, they cooled down as escorts and buggers offered them cold drinks and prepared the Special Olympians for their short march to the winners' stand. 
Each group of athletes beamed with pride as they paraded across the grass to take their respective positions on the award platform. Amid the cheers and hoots of families, friends, coaches and fans, these spectacular athletes' medals and ribbons were hung proudly around their necks. 
Patsy Coriz, silver medal winner in the women's 400m dash, typified the sentiment of most of the winners with her comment,"! was so excited. This is wonderful! '' 
Whether Olympians were standing in seventh place or first, their smiles were just as shiny as the medals proudly dis­played around their necks. 
As the Olympic Theme blared in the background and a group of top compet­itors posed with arms raised vic­toriously above their heads, a teary­eyed mother turned and said, "This is the proudest moment for my son--well 

By MARY HOWENSTINE Observer Staff 
Division 5 softball teams New York and Connecticut will meet in the cham­pionship game Thursday at 1:00 p.m.. New York was victorious over Vermont and Connecticut beat out Texas on Wed­nesday to qualify for the finals. 
Wyoming and Minnesota, division 6 teams, will also compete for gold and silver medals Thursday afternoon . 
Wyoming shut out Michigan 20-0 early Wednesday assisted by two homeruns from Dennis Altenberg and one from both from Jeff Krohn and 
Minnesota earned a berth in the championship game after batting a full seven innings with the feisty team from Virginia. Hanging on in the late innings, Minnesota was edged by Virginia 16-14, one of the closest softball scores re­corded at the 1987 Games. 
The New York Raiders charged to an early lead against Vermont. Facing an automatic defeat with the ten-run rule in effect, Vermont scored two runs in the bottom of the sixth inning, closing in on New York's eleven run lead and forcing the game into a full seven in­nings. New York finally overpowered championship game against Connec­ticut. 
Connecticut is definitely the team to watch. They have allowed only five runs in the three games they have played in the Special Olympics, posting victories of 29-2, 21-2 and 13-1. Their 13-1 victory over Texas advanced them into the championship finals. 
Larry Bissell, third baseman for Con­necticut, tripled, doubled and singled in the game against Texas. After the game, Bissell said, "If we just concen­trate on our defense, we have a good chance of winning it all. We have some 

I
I The Observer ISSOG Issue Thursday, August 6, 1987 -page 6 
A night with the _Special Olympics' EMT unit 
By BOB TYLER Observer Staff 
Night comes to the Notre Dame campus. 
It's hot. 
The last rays of sun shine above the 
horizon. Notre Dame's golden dome be­comes a nightlight overshadowing the campus. Its statue of the Virgin, arms outstretched, protects all who focus on its golden glow. 
While athletes bear the balmy night by playing on the quad, tossing the fris­bee or strolling the walkways-anything to vacate the unconditioned dorms ­medical staff gather on the west end of the quad. 
The ROTC building's first floor has been converted into a mini-medical center with a clinic and a dispatch cen­ter. Doctors, nurses, and other volun­teers are gathered to serve the Special Olympians. 
The clinic has a few large rooms. The 
main one consists of partitions, 
cabinets, and supplies. It's somewhat 
a cross between an emergency room 
and a first aid station. Doctors and 
nurses wait wondering what kind of 
night this will be. 
Nursing coordinator, Sue Sterlon, 
remarks about the cases at the clinic 
last night. There were dozens of heat 
strokes, seizures, sprains, and scrapes 
to nurse. A few patients were trans­
ferred to South Bend hospitals. She 
says, "Without this medical center, 
emergency rooms in town would be 
swarmed." 
Pete Womer, coordinator of the cen­
ter's dispatch unit, waits in another 
room by his phone. His staff of EMT's 
and a nurse wonder if their night will 
be busier than the last. Their job is to 
answer medical distress calls of olym­
pic athletes on campus and in the South 
Bend community. With medical sup­
plies, they respond to the al;hletes' quarters evaluating and treating the sick and injured. Sometimes, they transport them. 
Womer wonders if a cool front will come tomorrow as predicted. Donated electric fans are not decreasing the many cases of heat stroke in unair­conditioned quarters. Armed with a computer, whose disc contains the medical histories of all registered 
Olympians, he waits with his vans, por­table radios, and staff. At 9:30 p.m., a dark, cloudless sky covers South Bend. The quiet suddenly breaks. The phone rings. 
A Brazilian coach has had an appar­ent heat stroke. Nurses prepare for his arrival. A Spanish interpreter is com­ing. 
A phonecall from the fourth floor of Dillon -a Canadian athlete is having a seizure. 
The EMT and nurse dispatch team 
rushes to the door with their equipment. 
As they do, the Brazilian arrives. Doc­
tor, nurse, and interpreter tend to him. 
He's stable and alert as he is placed on 
a bed for treatment. 
The van door slams. Kevin is the 
nurse, a Memorial Hospital volunteer. 
Ed is the EMT. 
Within minutes they pop the doors. 
Pairs of feet run with the supplies. 
Their legs pump through Dillon Hall's 
main doorway and fly up the stairwell. 
A Canadian coach greets them. He 
calms them." "She's alright, now," he 
says. 
After Kevin checks her, the crew 
returns to the van. It's refreshingly cool 
leaving the fourth floor behind. A con­
versation of relief dashed with chuckles 
breaks between them. 
But the radio crackles with another 
event -a problem at the Morris Inn 
lobby. The van hurries. 
Kevin leaves the van at the Inn's front 
doorway. Entering, he finds an athlete with a nosebleed sitting on a sofa. The athlete's mom is worried. 
After a radio conversation with the clinic doctor, Ed and Kevin move the patient to the van. The doctor wants to see him. 
Once on board, the radio again crackles -a person has fainted on the third floor of Fisher Hall. The building is a short distance away between clinic and inn. So, once again, Kevin is dropped by the van. He runs toward an awaiting volunteer at the Fisher door­way. Ed finishes the transport. 
Kevin's feet pump through the threshold and fly up the staircase. He carries two boxes of emergency sup­plies. At the third floor, he is guided to a prostrate young man, an athlete, in the hellish temperature. Someone says, "He's exhausted from the heat. The same thing happened last night." 
The nurse evaluates. 
The Special Olympian is cooled with ice and water. He has an epilectic his­tory. The doctor over the radio decides to call for an ambulance. 
McGann's Ambulance Service soon arrives and takes charge of the patient. As he collects his thoughts and supplies, Kevin is startled by another crackle, "Seizure, fourth floor Dillon Hall!" 

The van is unavailable. 
Kevin again is on the run. However, this Olympics dash seems like 1500 meters. Down the Fisher Hall steps he goes. He sprints the quadrangle side­walk westward back to Dillon. The Dome's glow is a beacon north in the distance. 
He charges the four Dillon flights. Huffing and puffing, Kevin arrives at the first dispatch site. 
The Canadian girl has just stopped her seizure. She's in bed. Kevin evaluates her again. 
It seems hotter in Dillon than it did the first time. A Canadian coach remarks that the 
Sixth  Summer  Olympics  in  Baton  
Rouge's  hot  humidity  was  more  
tolerable.  

The clinic's doctor radios that an­other ambulance should be ordered for the girl's transport. The McGann's Am­bulance returns. 
The hot steamy climate continues. Special Olympics has been hot enough. 
The night continues hot until a cool front dumps rain on South Bend in the twilight hours of the next morning. A special favor, perhaps, from Our Lady of the Golden Dome. 
~·~ 
To everyone who goes the distance everyday, A1&T Long Distance Gift Certificates salutes you! 
AT&T is proud to be a sponsor ofthe 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games. And we'll continue to support the year-round efforts of Special Olympics with a contribution for every $25 gift pack ofAT&T Long Distance Gift Certificates AT&T purchased. To order, calll 800 GIFTATT The right choice. 

©1987 Al&T 

Swimmers 
going for 
the gold 
By MARIA DOTI Observer Staff 
Mark Spitz, eat your heart out. 
This thought entered the minds of many spectators as they observed the 25m freestyle and lOOm individual med­ley events at Rolf's Aquatic Center yes­terday. 
Froelich Miroslaw and Krzysztof Debski, teammates with the Poland delegation, earned a gold and silver, respectively, in the 25m freestyle. 
His time of 22.95 meant a second medal for 15-year-old Miroslaw, who had, hours earlier, won a silver in the 50m freestyle. But for Debski, his silver was just a stepping stone. 
"I'm very happy with my silver medal," said Debski, who had a time of 17.26 in the 22-to 99-year-old age group. "But I'm striving for the gold." 
Twenty-six-year-old Joseph Duo of Gibraltar was modest about his silver in the 25m freestyle, but his coach, Annie Risso, proclaimed his 42.84­second victory with excitement. 
"I feel fantastic!" said Coach Risso. "I'm so glad all of Joseph's work has finally paid off.'' 
Hoosier delegate, Rog Durham of Portland, left his competitors in a trail of steam as he went on to win a gold medal in the lOOm individual medley with a time of 1:42.57. 
Lorrie Woycik, Durham's ISSOG coach sees great potential in his per­formance as well as those of the thousands of Special Olympics partici­pants. 
"Rog's beautiful," Coach Woycik 
The ObserverJluzanne Poch said. "There's no one that works harder or deserves more than these kids. They're terrific!" 
R Tl mE POR HEROES 
The Official Theme Music of the 1987 lnte~national Summer Special Olympic Games featuring 

Vietnam Veterans County Super Sounds World Records Record Connection  of  Elkhart  Logan Center ADEC Bookworm Kroger's Jamison Inn  Available On e12' Record ecassette Tape ecompact Disc  
Tracks  Morris Inn  

Musicland Budgeteer Camelot Howard Johnson's Notre Dame Souvenir Stands Marriott Hall of Cards & Books Ramada Inn 
~EUM 
RECORDS 
Net proceeds go to the 19871SSOC, Inc. 



All in a day's 

----------------------~ -~-­

ork 
\ 
, '4 
\ 
\ 



The Observer ISSOG Issue Thursday, August 6, 1987 -page 10 
Conyers helps out by keeping Games rolling 

I 
Here's the full-service solution to your company's safety and first aid needs. 
Special Olympians, we salute you! 
By BOB TYLER Observer Staff 
University of Notre Dame is busy with crowds of athletes and volunteers attending the Seventh Summer Special Olympics. 
It's two o'clock. 
People are massing around the ACC. Behind it, tennis courts and a track bring crowds for the afternoon events. Under the bright sun, they hussle to places. Some have Cokes in-hand or umbrellas above them. 
Just east of the center, there's a bunch of wheelchairs under a tent. All kinds of chairs are parked there: black, blue, and red frames on wheels. There are models ranging from those for racing to those for simple transports. Even a few electrically powered ones sit there. 
To a passerby, it may look like a used wheelchair lot instead of the wheelchair garage it is. 
Bill Conyers, a balding fortyish tech­nician from the Assisted Devices Resource Center (ADRC) of Memorial Hospital, is working with men from Med Plus, another division of the South Bend hospital. They are volunteers checking wheelchairs and other therapeutic assist devices for olym­pians. 
"I am enjoying this," Conyers chuckles. "I never thought the work here would be so involved . . . so 
rewarding  and  fun," the  mechanic  
banters.  
He  is  finishing  work  on  Kip  

Cartwright's red wheelchair, specially designed for olympic races. 
The Utah athlete and his coaches watch as Conyers makes final adjust­ments. Conyers explains that the chair was too awkward for Cartwright to use efficiently. "He couldn't get leverage 
».'.$' ~­
The ObserveriFred Dobie Bill Conyers and his team of Med Plus volunteers inspect wheelchairs for Spe­cial Olympics wheelchair events. 
on the wheels; so, I adjusted the chair Conyers says he has welded broken frame and its wheels so Kip could rotate frames, tightened spokes, and fixed flat his arms better." tires. He has even troubleshooted elec­
Conyers and others from ADRC have trical systems. been working for the last two days He expects those problems, but he is checking wheelchairs for safety, espe­pleasently surprised to encounter prob­cially those in olympic competition. lems like Cartwright's. "It gives you a good feeling knowing you're helping the athletes compete and have fun." 
Randy Richman, Med Plus ser­viceman, claims that eighteen wheel­chairs have been loaned to the olympic community, thirteen for the USA and five for different countries. 
Conyers and the Med Plus men say they are also surprised by one-third of their customers. These have been com­ing to the tent for wheelchairs, crutches, and walkers. 
Somehow, coaches are spraining ankles, suffering falls, and overheating all over campus. 
"One of the funniest things," Conyers interjects, "is non-english speaking athletes·coming here in great distress. And after trying to decide what their problem is through chatter, hand mo­tions, and body language, the message comes: an exhausted or injured coach, not the athlete, needs help -a wheel­chair." 
Kip Cartwright is transferred from his loaner to the repaired racing ma­chine. 
He smiles. Julie Barnes, one of the coaches, is happy that he will be able to compete the next day. 
Cartwright and the coaches leave the tent; perhaps, they will put the athlete and his machine through a preliminary trial, putting the chair to the test. 
Conyers has a few more chairs to check. It's his last day here. 
But the Med Plus workforce will remain through the games' conclusion. There are wheelchairs to attend to. They will be here to keep the frames straight, those bearings slippery, and those rims true. 
But most of all, they will be here to provide wheels for people like those downed olympic coaches with places to cruise. 

Wfire there when you need us. 
Zee Medical Inc. McKesson Corp. 7Holland Avenue Irvine, CA92718 
Volleyball bracket action -' moves to medal rounds 
By JUDY MOLNAR Observer Staff 
Volleyball bracket round action resumed Wednesday as teams enter the medal rounds. 
In Division I play, Tennessee defeated Missouri, 15-12 and 15-7 to move into the gold medal bracket. 
Panama will play Tennessee after easily defeating Washington in two games 15-3 and 15-8. 
Washington took the bronze in this division with Missouri coming in fourth. 
In Division II play, Pennyslvania defeated New York 16-14 and 15-8. 
West Virginia defeated Arkansas in three tough games, 7-15, 16-14 and 15-9. Pennyslvania will face off against West Virginia in the gold medal round. 
Arkansas captured the bronze after defeating New York in this division, and their excitement was obvious in the award ceremonies. 
In Division III, Ohio defeated Ala­bama to move to play Kansas for the gold after they defeated United Kingdom. 
In afternoon play Alabama defeated United Kingdom to win the bronze medal. 
In Division IV play, Louisiana will meet Florida in the gold medal round. Delaware defeated Kentucky to cap­ture the bronze medal in yesterday af­ternoon 's competition. 
Arizona and California will go for the gold in the final round of Division V play. Wisconsin defeated Colorado to win the bronze. 
Consolation play in Division II matches Georgia against Virginia for fifth place. Georgia beat Indiana 15-9, 10-15 and 15-6 to move into the fifth place round. Virginia made their way in the fifth round bracket by defeating Massachusettes 15-6 and 15-3. 
Wednesday afternoon, Indiana defeated Massachusettes for seventh place. 
In the Division III consolation bracket, Connecticut defeated Illinois, 15-12, 13-15 and 15-10 to capture seventh place. Today Division III will match North Carolina against Oregon for fifth place. 
Montana defeated New Jersey to take seventh place in the Division V consola­tion bracket. Today Trinadad will meet Rhode Island to compete for fifth place. 
The OregorvNorth Carolina, Geor­giaNirginia, and Trinidad-Rhode Is­land games will begin at 9 a.m. Arizona plays California at noon, Louisana will play Florida at 1:30 p.m., followed at 3 
p.m. with Ohio and Kansas. At 4:30p.m. Pennslyvania will play West Virginia, and at 6 p.m. Tennessee will face Panama. 
On hand to present the awards for Wednesday afternoon's winners were Mark and Anthony Shriver, 1984 former Olympic player Rose Major Powell and Jean Beautery of the Los Angeles Star­lights. 
"It is different and enjoyable to watch the athletes play. Whether they win or lose they are so excited," said Powell. 
"I have taught at a lot of volleyball clinics and I enjoy teaching to those who want the opportunity to learn the game. Teaching at the clinics will be a great experience for the athletes and me," said Beautery, 
Thursday's clinic,from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m., will feature former Olympic players Rose Major Powell and Claudia Lee and professional player Jean Beautery. 
From 8 p.m. until 8:30 p.m., guest players will demonstrate serving and setting skills. Friday morning at 9:30 a.m., Chile will play the guest players and a spiking and passing clinic will follow at 10 a.m.. 

HE'S AN ATHLETE. HE'S AN OLYMPIAN. AND HE'S A HERO. 
The Knights of Columbus is proud to be part of the SpecialOlympics. We're proud of each of the heroic athletes who are participating in the Summer Games. 
The Kof C helps out in lots of ways. We're coordinating the volunteer involvement of nearly 5,000 Kof C members and their families ... contributing a quarter million dollars as a Principal Sponsor ... arranging housing in the South Bend area for athletes' families ... and recruiting more than 1,200 vol­unteers for the opening ceremonies of the '87Games. We're also pleased to have provided the printing of 25,000 copies of a commemorative poster / by noted artist John L. Terelak. / 
The Knights of Columbus is a Catholic, family, fraternal benefit society with 1.4 million dues-paying members worldwide. 
The Knights of Columbus works this hard because we believe volunteers make a big difference in the Games ... and the world. 
That's why the Knights' donated 21 million man-hours to community service and made $67 million worth of charitable disbursements last year.($11.3 million of that total benefitted programs for mentally 
retarded citizens.) 
It's why the Knights received the President's Volunteer Action Award from President Reagan for "Mobilization 
of Volunteers." 
And it's why we're proud to be part of the Summer Games. 


------------~-----.----.---~--~~----~-.----~-­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Thursday, August 6, 1987 -page 12 
Austrians feel at home with Corky Patton's family 
By SARA MARLEY Observer Staff 
The "crazy house" of George and Corky Patton is a little crazier this week thanks to the four members of the Austrian delegation they are hosting during the Games. 
The Pattons credit their daughter Connie with bringing the Austrians to their home. Connie Patton was inter­ested in getting involved with the Games and was asked to serve as "community host" for the Austrian delegation, a role which requires working with the live-in host and the delegation "to make them feel at home." 
Through communication with the Austrians prior to the Games, Connie Patton learned of the additional coaches who were not offered on­campus housing due to limited ac­comodations. Living in an apartment of her own, Connie Patton was unable to house them herself and asked her parents to help out. One of seven children, only two of which remain at home, Connie Patton knew, "The way our house goes, we'll just show them where things are and let them help themselves." 
Their hospitality has been warmly received. Guest Axel Weiss, Secretary of Special Olympics in Austria, mar­velled at the "openness" of the Pattons' home. 
"We were astonished at their friendship and kindness. They are the best hosts. We're feeling like members of the family." 
As a host family, the Pattons provide beds, breakfast, and dinner for their guests. "We've all just tried to play it loose and let these people do their thing with the athletes, said Corky Patton. 
Some differences in culture have brought unpredicted results. "I bought a ton of breakfast cereal, and they don't even like it," laughed Corky Patton. She explained that the Austrians found even bland American varieties "too sweet," and that they preferred a con­tinental breakfast of rolls or bread. With that exception, "It's been strictly American food." 
During this week's heat wave, the Pattons took their guests to a local swimming pool and they are planning a trip down South Bend's East :Race Waterway to try white water rafting. Other than that, the Austrians "haven't had much time for us to show them around," said Mary Claire Patton, an­other daughter who still lives at home. 
Just like official members of the delegation, the volunteers staying with the Pattons spend most of their time with the athletes on campus. They rented a car for transportation to and from Notre Dame. The Austrians' live­in host Kathy Scarbeck claims having part of their group living off~campus has not caused any problems. 
"They know when all the events are and they meet us in the morning. In. fact, it's sort of been an advantage be­cause they can use the rental car to run errands for us." 
Although their hectic schedule has not allowed them time for extensive travel, the Austrians have enjoyed their taste of America. This is the first time the nation has participated in an Inter­national Summer Games, but three ath­letes travelled to utah's Winter Games. This is Weiss' first trip to the United States. "I love it," he exclaimed. "It's more than I expected." 
To express their thanks to the Pat­tons, the Austrians brought them gifts from their hometown of Graz. T-shirts proclaiming "Styria -the green heart of Austria'' for their province in Austria and an intricate wooden mobile delighted the family. 
Most importantly, friendships have been formed which both parties are anxious to continue. The Pattons are welcome in Austria, an offer Mary Claire Patton would like to take them up on. 
"They're so cool. These people would show me a good time," she exclaimed. 
"They're very good-spirited, thank­ful, friendly people," said George Pat­ton. "I'd love to do it again." 

Athletes pose m front of thetr temporary home, McCandless Hall at on the campus of Saint Mary's College. 
® 
SpecialOlyJJJpic!i 
§lcrown® 
PRINCIPAL SPONSOR OF 1987 INTERNATIONAL SUMMER GAMES 
The ObserverAVen Yi 
Salutes: 
Atlas/Soundolier, Fenton, Missouri Beldon Wire and Cable, Richmond, Indiana Boardwalk and Baseball, Haines City, Florida The Bradley-Toner Agency, Inc., Mishawaka, Indiana Carol Cable Co., Pawtucket, Rhode Island Cetec Vega, Inc., Elmonte, California Community Light and Sound, Chester, Pennsylvania Electro-Voice, Inc., Buchanan, Michigan Klark Teknik Electronics, Farmingdale, New York Koontz-Wagner Electric, Inc., South Bend, Indiana 
Micro Innovations, Winter Springs, Florida 
Pro Co Sound, Kalamazoo, Michigan 
Sharp Communications of South Bend, South Bend, Indiana 
Shuford Mills, Hickory, North Carolina 
Starcase, Munster, Indiana 
Tascam, Inc., Montebello, California 
Tripp Lite, Inc., Chicago, Illinois 
Whiteford Truck Lines, Inc., South Bend, Indiana 
for soundly uniting with our commitment. 
CROWN INTERNATIONAL • 1718 W MISHAWAKA ROAD • ELKHART. INDIANA 46517 • (2191 294-8000 
Zee donates supplies for Games' first-aid 

By MATT SITZER Observer Staff 
Irvine California-based Zee Medical, Inc., has been providing quality health care and first-aid products since its humble beginning in the Torrence, Cal­ifornia garage of Tom and Violet Zapara in 1952. Today, Zee Medical, a subsidiary of the San Francisco-based McKesson Corporation, employs neary 800 salespeople and calls more than 300,000 industrial and business firms its customers. 
Under an agreement with the Inter­national Summer Special Olympics Games Organizing Committee, Zee has donated more than $5,000 in medical supplies to the games. 
Their local distributing office, run by South Bend residents Chuck and Peggy Endsley, has donated an additional $3,000 worth of supplies in response to additional medical demands caused by the recent heat wave and an unex­pected increase in sports related injur­ies. 
"The Organizing Committee called us about a month and a half ago," said Peggy Endsley. "They were desperate to find someone to donate medical sup­plies for the Games. We were more than happy to help them out." 
In response to the Committee's re­quest, Zee's national office promptly donated a $5,000 supply of first-aid products to be administered to compet­itors and spectators suffering from anything from sports related injuries to heat exhaustion. 
The first-aid supplies included such Zee products as gauze pads, first-aid cream, splints, bandages, and stetho­scopes. Also donated was a Zee Medical van to be used to transport supplies and the injured to and from various loca­tions around the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 

After the first few days of competi­tion, it became apparent to Games medical volunteers that more supplies would be needed to accomodate the rising number of heat and sports related medical problems. 
"They were getting a lot of heat ex­haustion cases, because of the hot and humid weather," said Endsley. "We decided to donate an additional $3,000 worth of supplies to help solve this prob­lem." 
Endsley explained that the extra sup­plies were mainly related to heat ex­haustion treatment. "The medics asked for lots of aspirin, antibiotic ointment, eyewash, and 'Sustain,' a drug which replentishes the body's electrolyte table," she said. 
"Our company's motto is 'We're there when you need us'," added Endsley. "We hope we've lived up to it this week. Helping out gives us a really good feeling." 
In addition to the International Sum­mer Special Olympics Games, Zee Medical has provided first-aid and safety supplies for such national events as Liberty Weekend in New York City, celebrating the lOOth birthday of the Statue of Liberty, and the Golden Gate Bridge 50th Anniversery Celebration in San Francisco, California. 
Today, Zee Medical, Inc. is the na­tion's largest supplier of first-aid and safety programs, providing training, information and supplies through 
through  its  78  distribution  points  
throughout  the  continental  United  
States,  Alaska,  Hawaii  and  Puerto  
Rico.  



Buy One PIZZA Get One FREE! 
Buy any size Original Round Pizza at regular price and get the identical pizza FREE with this coupon. 1349 Portage Ave 510 W~ McKinley ..>J-3200 259-0021 
462b Western Ave. 2047 E. Ireland 234-4192 ~~1-8260 
~~~®~ ~When you make pizza this good, one just isn't enough:· 
"1986 Utile CM5ar Enterprises, Inc. 
~--· VAU.LUI.£ COUPON ·--~--. V.AI.UAII.£ COUPON ·--..
•~ .~ I 1Two 14" PizzasiTwo 12" Pizzasl 
I $1 o..~~~ $7..?.~! 
I Large Size PizzasI Medium Size PizzasII with Cheese & I with Cheese & 
1
2 Items 2 Items
1 1 1
Extra items and extra cheese I Extra items and extra cheeseII available at additional cost. available at additional cost.I Valid with coupon at participat-1 Valid with coupon at participat-1 1 ing Little Caesars. One coupon1 ing Little Caesars. One couponl I per customer. Carry Out Only. I per customer. Carry Out Only. I 
Expires: 8·22·87 I ,Expires: 8·22-87 I 
l(fl)~~.(fl)JI!lli@~. 
·--.VAI.UAIII COUI'OH ·--...___ V.AI.UAII.ICOUI'ON ·-_ .. 


_,....,. &•tN·''''Y·I
~" --­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Thursday, August 6, 1987-page 14 

Softball teams were busy with their tournament competition all day yester·day at Stepan Field. the tournament resumes today at 10:30 a.m.. 
Athletes enjoy Notre Dame "dorm food" 
By LIZ PANZICA Observer Staff 
The University of Notre Dame Food Service has been serving 5,000 meals a day during the International Games to the athletes, coaches and many staff personnel. 
A bout 2,000 meals are served in the South Dining Hall and another 3,000 are served in the North Dining Hall. Break­fast, lunch, and dinner are served in both halls. 
"Dorm food" often receives criticism from students at universities. Yet, many athletes have said that they have enjoyed their meals at Notre Dame. 
Hong Kong delegation members said they enjoyed the typical American food served. But, they said they're "used to hot dogs, but not all the time." 
According to William Hickey, direc­tor of University food services there were no special foreign dishes planned on the menu because no requests were made before the Games began. Rice was added to the evening meal, however, after the Oriental teams' re­quest this week. 
The Hong Kong delegation members said they were pleased that University Foodservice accommodated them, but added, "It's hard to get Americans to cook rice correctly." 
Because of the severe heat, medical staff have requested that special menus be prepared for many athletes. The Foodservice is working hard to comply with those requests. 
Foodsevice has published a guide to nutrition for Special Athletes. It out­lines good nutrition and gives guidelines for pre-event meals. It also gives an idea about the liquid require­
ments  for  athletes.  Copies  of  the  
pamphlet  can  be obtained from  the  
Nutritionist  in  the  basement  of  the  
South Dining Hall.  

The University Foodservice staff is 475 people strong -much larger than the regular summer staff. University Foodservice also cash operations at The Huddle, LaFortune Student Center, and the Oak Room. Hickey said that business is bustling in cold drink sales becaues of the heat. 
A coach from California said he was incredibly happy with the job the Food­service has done. He said, "The people in Foodservices are always in good spirits and always willing to help." 
Buses provide transportation 
By JUDY MOLNAR Observer Staff 
Looking for the best way to get to an event or dormitory? 
The South Bend School Community buses will get you there on time. 
There are 15 stops along the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's route at which buses meet Games participants and spectators to transport them to their desired destinations. 
The 14 buses are scheduled to run from 7 a.m. until 11 p.m. everday during the competition. 
Buses are scheduled to arrive at all of the stops along the loop every five to ten minutes. 
The buses will only stop at the desig­nated 15 stops, so those desiring service must be ready and waiting at the sched­uled times. 
Many athletes, coaches, and families have taken advantage of the transpor­tation system to assist them in getting to various locations at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
"Everything has worked very well and we have received good comments about the service," said Barbara Kelly, one of the bus drivers. 
According to Betty Mitchell, Coord­inator of the shuttle buses, the contract was approved by the South Bend Com­munity School Board and the State Legislature passed the request for the school buses to be used during the week of the Games. 
Included on the list of public trans­portation vehicles are the two buses that travel the hotel loop and the special 100 buses for the Saint Patrick's Park 
event. "I ride the buses with my soccer team back and forth to the games," said John Helbig from Idaho. "It's very hot on the buses, but a lot of fun," he added. 
----~~---------------------------­
Programs Available At The Olympics Events Price $2.00  

--~-­
r 
amaica comes back to beat Guatemala 
By PETE GEGEN 
Observer Staff 
After Guatemala had built a 2-0 lead, Jamaica exploded for three goals in the second half to win 3-2 and take fifth place in the B division of the soccer com petition. 
Guatemala controlled a physically­played first half, outshooting the Jamaicans 15-2 and scoring twice. 
Oscar Aceituno started the scoring when he headed in a crossing pass by Oscar Mejia. Mejia increased the lead to 2-0 when he dribbled in all alone and blasted a shot into the upper left hand corner. 
Jamaica tried to mount offensive at­tacks, but the team was whistled for more than 20 off-sides calls in the game. 
Nicaragua suffered a key injury five minutes into the second half when Mejia collided with a Jamaican player, splitting the skin on the ridge of his nose. Though wanting to return to the game, he was taken to the Red Cross station for precautionary measures. 
Without Mejia in the game, the Jamaicans controlled play. And when they weren't off sides, they scored goals. 
Andrew Lowe scored the first goal when he dribbled the ball the length of the field, flying past the Guatemalan defenders, and rolled a shot into the goal. 
The tying goal came on a delayed call by the referee. The Guatemalan keeper blocked a shot by Lowe, but the rebound came to Jamaica's Charles Mcintyre, who hit it off his chest and over the goal line. The Mexican goalie knocked the ball out just as it crossed the line and play continued, but the referee stopped the action and correctly called it a goal. 
Lowe scored the game winner with five minutes left in the game as he dribbled in from the right side and blasted it into the left corner. 
Most of the soccer action Wednesday featured tight matches, with four of seven games being decided by one goal. 
Minnesota held off a rally to defeat Bolivia in the fifth place game of the D division in overtime 5-4. 
Minnesota had a 3-1 lead at halftime before the Bolivians knocked home two goals to tie the score. Regulation time ended with the score tied at four. 
But Steve Johnson gave Minnesota the victory in sudden death. Teammate Matt Manahl received the ball in the penalty box, drew the keeper away from the net and fed Johnson in front of the empty net, who knocked it home. 
Connecticut and New Jersey also went to overtime, as Connecticut won the E division fifth-place contest, 6-5. 
The game was decided on a penalty kick in the first overtime period, as a New Jersey player was called for hold­ing in the penalty area. Connecticut's Anthony Silva directed the penalty kick into the left corner to give his team the victory. 
After a scoreless first half, Trinidad­Tobago tallied twice to beat Arizona in the C division fifth-place game, 2-0. Arizona had a penalty shot go off the post in the first half. 
Mexico couldn't buy a goal in the A division fifth-place match, losing to Ar­gentina 3-0. 
Time and time again the Argentine goalie came up with the big plays, frustrating the Mexican forwards. Rito Villafane, Ramon Torez and Nelson Silva scored for Argentina. 
In the F division, Michigan took fifth place by defeating Kentucky 4-1, and utah exploded for eight goal against 
Indiana  to  win  8-2,  taking  seventh  
place.  
The  medal  games  will  be  played  

Thursday. At 10 a.m. Colombia and the United Kingdom will battle for the gold in the B division, and Pennsylvania and Arkansas will play for the E division gold. The bronze medal games will pit Korea and Kenya in the B division and Tennessee and Hong Kong in theE divi­sion. 
At noon, games will be played for the bronze medals in the four remaining divisions. El Salvador meets Ireland in the A division, Louisianna meets Canada in the C division, Texas battles Japan in the D division, and Iowa faces Hawaii in the F division. 
The gold medal games will be played at 2 p.m. for these four divisions. Chile meets Brazil in the A division, Austria faces California in the C division, Bel­gium battles Georgia in the D division, and Florida faces Idaho in the F divi­sion. 

!!ipecialOlympic§ 
~--_Ihe Observer-= 
Today's Issue was produced by the following: Mark Babka Paul Babka Scott Bearby Kevin Becker Marilyn Benchik Ann Biddlecom Jim Carroll Tony Deliberato Mindy Chapleau Fred Dobie Chris Donnelly Maria Doti Pete Gagen Pat Hannon Tim Healy Mary Howenstine Smed Laboe Valerie Lamanna Judy Molnar Susan Mullen Mike Murdock Liz Panzica Suzanne Poch Sean Reardon Jim Riley Andrea Rogers Jim Ryan Matt Sitzer Cathy Stacy Patti Tripathi Bob Tyler Tim Woods Joan Wrappe Wen Yi Kim Yuratovac 

Today's Weather 
Today will be aunny with hlgha from 80 to 85, but expect cool weather end aome ahowera et night. 
Thanks All The Sponsors Who Have Contributed To Its Effort To Cover These Games And The Thirty Notre 
Dame Students Who Have Given Their Time To Produce This 
Newspaper. 
.... 
-----------·---------------------­

I 
l ~ 
I i § Jf)~O 111li § Jf)~e~c1lOI~Culll 011r 
The Observer ISSOG Issue Thursday, August 6, 1987 -page 16 

By MARY HOWENSTINE and TIM HEALY 
Observer Staff 
The inside of the Joyce Ath­letic and Convocation Center at times resembled a huge playground filled with children jumping rope, tum­bling about and racing down slides Wednesday night. 
Not five minutes later the ACC dome became a circus big top. 
Complete with a master of ceremonies, pantomiming clowns, animal acts, waving spotlights and springy tumblers who performed with such precision they looked like brightly colored tin sol­diers. 
No, the Ringling Brothers Circus was not in town tonight. The variety show that thrilled the audience was the 1987 International Special Olympics Sports Spectacular, an event emceed by Jack Lloyd, Mary Lou Retton, and Bart Conner. 
It was designed to entertain Olympians and coaches and to let the Olympians "know how much the people of In­diana appreciate you," as Indiana Lt. Governor John Mutz said to the capacity crowd. 
On hand to entertain the crowd were the Andrews Uni­versity Gymniks, a tumbling team. The team performed several floor routines involv­ing somersaults in formation, backflips in tandem, and once, four gymnasts per­formed on balancing bricks atop twelve foot cylinders. 
Local police officer Irv Sikorski sang his original composition, "The Magic is There" while four gymnasts shadowboxed and pan­tomimed other athletics. 
The tumbling act that stole the show was performed by a tiny Special Olympian intro­duced as "Georgina from Great Britain." Georgina performed a floor exercise involving somersaults, the splits and graceful dancing. She finished to thunderous applause and a standing ova­tion from an appreciative crowd. 
Another crowd pleaser was Paul Hunt, aka Pauletta. "Pauletta" performed a skill­ful comedy balance beam act, wearing two smiles -one on his mushtached face and an­other painted on the fanny of his yellow tights. The crowd enjoyed his performance so much he returned later in the show on the tumbling mats. 
Medalists from the 1984 Summer Olympics Games Tracee Talavera and Bart Conner joined others gym­nasts in demonstrating basic skills on the pommel horse, parallel bars, balance beam and in power tumbling. 
Fans enjoyed much more than tumbling acts as they watched dogs Satin and Zack snatch Frisbees out of the air, an acrobatic display in itself. 
The St. Louis Zips, a 14 member dribbling exhibition team performed as well with one member twirling a bas­ketball behind his back, switching hands -while blindfolded. 
Atlanta Hawks superstar Spud Webb, according to Spe­cial Olympian Bryant Solomon of Texas, was "no doubt, the best act of the night." 
Webb delighted fans with a 360-degree tomahawk jam. Special Olympians from Illi­nois, Michigan and Trinidad joined Webb in a two-on-two match and compared slam dunks to their hero's. 
Introduced as having per­formed a heartwarming show for President Ronald Reagan 
Photos by Joann Whitfield in Washington, D.C., the To­tally Confident Disabled Drill Team performed for last night's crowd, earning the second standing ovation of the evening. Near the end of the ex­travaganza, one member of the drill team sang "That's What Friends Are For," while the audience joined hands and sang along "Keep smiling, keep shining." 

