
Blood-page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 109 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma11·'s 

·ll Senior class president, 
The Observer;Susan Coene 
Rocking at Theodore's 
The student band "Word of Mouth" was the forming are (left to right) Kelly Harrington, good word at LaFortune Tuesday night. Per-Bill Merkel and Maura Colleton. 


Vatican sets faith on birth methods 
Associated Press 
VATICAN City-The Vatican warned against "unforesee­able and damaging" conse­quences of artificial procrea­tion Tuesday, condemning surrogate motherhood, test­tube births, cloning and experi­ments on living embryos. 
In setting out the Roman Catholic church's position on rapidly developing techniques of fertilization, the Vatican also called for laws against embryo banks, attempts to fashion animal-human hybrids and the planting of human embryos in artificial and animal uteruses. 
It left the door open to re­search on helping sterile couples conceive and withheld judgment on fertilization tech­niques in use or development that neither substitute for marital intercourse nor result in deaths of "spare" embryos. 
"We encourage scientific re­search ... but science is not ab­solute, to which everything must be subordinated and eventually sacrificed, includ­ing the dignity of man,'' Car­dinal Joseph Ratzinger, head of 

HPC hears of policy to punish drunk drivers 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
The establishment of a Uni­versity policy to discipline stu­dents arrested for drunk driving was discussed Tuesday night by the Hall Presidents' Council. 
Father Gerry Lardner, Grace Hall rector, spoke to the hall presidents to get student opinion on "a policy which would guide the University in handling cases when students, while driving under the influ­ence of alcohol, pose a threat to the lives and safety of other persons." 
"Should the University have a policy for dealing with drunk drivers?" asked Lardner. "I think student opinion on this would be very ambivalent, frankly," he said. "It's an open discussion. We're just inter­viewing students leaders," said Lardner. 
HPC Co-Chairman Joanie Cahill said "some people feel civil law is enough, that Notre Dame should only be a sup-the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, told a news conference. 
The church position is con­tained in a 40-page document written by the Congregation, the guardian and promoter of Roman Catholic orthodoxy, and approved by Pope John Paul II. 
Vatican officials said the pope was consulted at every stage about the document, titled "Instruction on Respect for Human Life in its Origin and on the Dignity of Procrea­tion -replies to Certain Ques­tions of the Day." 
Some Vatican officials des­cribed it as the most important pronouncement on human procreation since the 1968 "Humane Vitae" encyclical of Pope Paul VI, which banned ar­tificial birth control. 
Any Catholic who "willingly and knowingly" violates the directives will be committing a sin, Vatican officials said. The document asks all church-run hospitals and Catholic doctors and scientists to follow to the directives. 
Ratzinger said the document was a response to requests and queries from national bishops' conferences, individual pr­elates, doctors and scientists. He described it as the result of "vast consultations" with ex­perts and church officials. 
Central to Vatican reasoning are two time-honored church principles: that every human life must respected from the moment of conception, and that the only acceptable way to give 
birth  to  a  child  is  through  
sexual  intercourse  between  
married spouses.  

According to the document, the church opposes all forms of "test-tube" births because it is "immoral to produce human embryos destined to be ex­ploited as disposable biological material." 
It says life begins when the ovum is fertilized and the embryo must be treated as a person. It also insists that "corpses" of human embryos and fetuses be respected and not subjected to mutilation. 
porter. Should Notre Dame deal with (students arrested for drunk driving) itself or should it hand the student over to civil authorities? Should there be a punishment from the University in addition to civil disciplining?" 
The hall presidents offered opinions both for and against University action in cases where students are subject to Indiana law for driving while intoxicated. 
"Everybody knows the Uni­versity can do as it pleases as long as it says in print what it's going to do beforehand," Lardner said. "On a case by case interest, the University makes judgment calls. Secur­ity would not make an arrest without consulting (Associate Vice President for Residence Life John) Goldrick," said Lardner. 
"In cases of suspension, counseling was conditional to the suspension," Lardner said. "So it's not like the University 
see HPC, page 6 


OC commissioner set 
Run-off set for other class tickets 
By CHRIS JULKA Assistant News Editor 
Diane Fitzgibbon will be the new president of the senior class, and Sean Evers will replace Race Thoman as off campus commissioner, the two being the only clear-cut win­ners of Tuesday's four student elections. 
Fitzgibbon and her running mates Sean Doyle, Amy Treder, and James Wimbiscus carried all the dorms but five, with Steve Dufour's ticket mounting the only significant challenge by taking Alumni and Dillion halls, the off campus residences, and refus­ing to budge from its home 
strongholds  of  Grace, Lyons  
and Zahm.  Evers  won  unop­ 
posed.  

Fitzgibbon garnered 530 bal­lots or 59.3 percent of the total vote, thus obtaining the neces­sary majority of her class to become president starting April I. 
By contrast the sophomore and junior contests produced no decisive winner. None of the 


Demolition set for the future of former Nickie's tavern 
By GREG LUCAS Staff Reporter 
The former Nickie's tavern on N. Eddy St. is scheduled for demolition because of its deteriorating roof and struc­ture, said Patricia Declerq, head of the Department of Code Enforcement in South Bend. 
"We are now taking bids for the demolition," said Declerq, adding that the lowest bidder will begin destruction of the building as soon as possible. 
Nick Bilello, owner of Nickie's who could not be reached for a comment, did not attend the Department of Code Enforcement hearing on March 5, said Declerq. 
"We'd had a long history of the building being in dis­repair," said Declerq. On Oc­11 sophomore or five junior of­fice candidates came close to the needed 50 percent of the vote. 
As a result the leading two tickets from each of these class races will compete against each other in the run-off elec­tions to be held this Thursday. 
Of the candidates who will participate in the junior class office run-off, Ellen Nichols drew the most votes of her class with 23.9 percent of the ballots, edging past the 22.4 percent won by Bill Pelino, who will oppose her. 
In the sophomore class office elections, Dave Kinkopf ac­quired a clear lead but only 
27.03 percent of the vote. His ticket will oppose that of Tom Rask, which received 15.86 per­cent of the vote. 
Student Judicial Coordinator Maria Cintron supervised and determined the tallies of the above elections without the as­sistance of the Ombudsman, which traditionally has managed all student elections. 
see ELECTIONS, page S 

tober 13, 1986 Bilello posted a $1000 cash bond and was or­dered to make repairs on the building by the end of Novem­ber, Declerq said. "In any event no repairs were made and the repair date was passed," Declerq said. 
"Any work that (Bilello) would complete on the building now would be at great risk be­cause the demolition has been ordered," said Declerq. 
Declerq said that she thought Bilello was trying to sell the property. She added that the Department of Code Enforce­ment would be willing to hold a hearing with a new owner. 
"Our aim is not demolition. We certainly would have liked to see Mr. Bilello repair the building" said Declerq. 

This will be the final reg­ular issue of The Observer before spring break. Tomor­row a special edition of Irish Extra will be printed. The Observer staff wishes every­one a happy and safe spring break. 

The Observer 
Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 2 


LEAVING NOTRE DAME  RETURNING TO NOTRE DAME  
LEAVE NOTRE ARRIVEARRIVEDAME MIDWAYO'HAREBUS AIRPORT SHELTER 4:20a.m. 6:00a.m. 6:20a.m. * 8:00a.m. 7:45a.m. 8:20a.m. 10:00o.m. 9:45a.m. 10:20a.m. 12:00p.m. 11:45a.m. 12:20p.m. 2:00p.m. 1:45p.m. 2:20p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:45p.m. 4:20p.m. 6:00p.m. 5:45p.m. 6:20p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:45p.m. 8:20p.m. 10:00p.m. *  LEAVE MIDWAY AT MIDWAY AIRLINES * 9:50a.m. 11:50a.m. 1:50p.m. 3:50p.m. 5:50p.m. 7:50p.m. 10:30p.m. *  ARRIVE LEAVE MICHIANA O'HARE AIRPORT SOUTH BEND 8:15a.m. 11:35a.m. 10:15a.m. 1:35p.m. 12:15p.m. 3:35p.m. 2:15p.m. 5:35p.m. 4:15p.m. 7:35p.m. 6:15p.m. 9:35p.m. 8:15p.m. 11:35p.m. 10:15p.m. 1:35a.m. 12:30 l.m. 3:35a.m.  ARRIVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER 11:50a.m. 1:50p.m. 3:50p.m. 5:50p.m. 7:50p.m. 9:50p.m. 11:50p.m. 1:50a.m. 3:50a.m.  
All ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES ON LOCAL TIME. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES.  ···--­ 



In Brief 
Winners of the Freshman Class Logo Contest are Paul Kostolansky of Cavanaugh Hall and Carla Mor­gan of Lewis Hall, announced the Freshman Class Advi­sory Council. The Council said all entries submitted were excellent and thanked all who participated. 
A woman who fired a gun into her mouth was saved when the partial plate of her false teeth prevented the bullet from entering her brain, authorities said. The 47-year-old woman of Broken Bow, Okla. was treated at McCurtain County Memorial Hospital and released, offi­cials said. Sheriff's authorities said the woman and her husband were arguing Saturday evening, and Deputy Terry Park said in a report that when the woman told her husband she was going to kill herself, the husband handed her a .22-caliber rifle. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
The Lenten Reflection Series begins tonight at 
7:00 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church, Lady Chapel. Notre Dame students Amy Zajakowski and Tom Pigott will offer personal reflections on the University community's Lenten theme: "God does not see as we see-for we look at ap­pearances, but the Lord looks into the heart." (1 Sam. 16: 7) 
-The Observer 
The Final Friday Forum in the series, "The Constitution And Higher Education,'' will be given by Prof. Frederick Crosson, Friday. March 13 at 12:15-1:00 p.m. in the Multi-Purpose Room of the Center For Social Con­cerns. Crosson, the John Cavanaugh Chair in Humanities for the Program Of Liberal Studies, will speak on the topic, "Higher Education And Democracy." -The Obser­ver 
A Mass in the Native Irish language will be celebrated Thursday, March 12, at 7:30p.m. in the Grace Hall Chapel to celebrate the feast of Saint Patrick's Day. 
-The Observer 
"Reflections On Haiti" will be presented by Yvon Joseph and Jean Marie Vincent on Friday, March 13, at 
12:00 p.m. in Room 151 Decio Hall. Joseph is the chairman of the board of directors of Misyon Alfa and Vincent is a member of the board of directors of Misyon Alfa. -The Observer 
NMMC Charity Ball will hold a mandatory meeting for all committees from 8-9:15 p.m. in the An­napolis Room of LaFortune Student Center. All members are req_uired to attend this meeting. -The Observer 
. Durmg its 1987 Spring Tour, the Saint Mary's Women's Choir will perform in Pittsburgh on March 15 and 16, Washington D.C. on the 17th and 18th, Philadelphia on the 19th, and New York City on the 20th and the 21st. Nancy Menk, director of choral activities at Saint Mary's, will lead the choir in its performance of 19th and 20th century music featuring the work of Andre Caplet and Norman Dello Joio. For more information concerning per­formance dates and times, call Nancy Menk at 284-4634. 
-The Observer 

Weather 

Let's break a deal. You have just won a whole week off. Jay, give our 
guests the details. Well, Monte, our guests will spend an entire week with no classes and no work. But before all this, they can enjoy three more days on campus. That's right, Monte. Our guests will bask in 40-degree sunshine today, an invigorating high 20s tonight and clouds 


with a high of 40 for tomorrow. ­
Associated Press 


Design Editor ..................... Rob Luxem Design Assistant .............. Pete LaFleur Typesetter ................ Becky Gunderman ........................................... Michael Buc News Editor. ................ Chris Bednarski Copy Editor ........................ Bud Luepke Sports Copy Editor.. .......... Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... Bob White 

Viewpoint Layout ......... Kathleen Moran Accent Copy Editor.. .. ... Mike Naughton Accent Layout .. .. .. .. .. ... Melinda Murphy Typist......... .. ......... Esther Ivory ND Day Editor ................. Susan Coene SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design.. .. .. .. .. .. . Mary Carol Creadon Photographer... .. ... ... .. .. ... .. Susan Coene 
Tbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Oblerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Oblener is a member of Tbe Aaodllted Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
ND grad's book and spring usher in time to remember 
Certain books should be read only on certain types of days, in certain places, at certain times. 
As the first drops of spring tapped on my shoulder, I grabbed a blue-and-gold book meant to be read on the not-too-green grass of South Quad. 
As students swarmed around the center of campus, I quietly read Edward Fischer's "Notre Dame Remembered." 
As a student, I see changes at Notre Dame in terms of passing seasons. Football flows into the fall, snow drifts into winter, flowers bud in the spring and calm comes with summer. 
Over forty-five years have passed since Fis­cher saw Notre Dame in such a light. His eyes have grown accustomed to a more gradual, per­vasive sense of change. For him, the sudden­ness of seasons has yielded to the subtlety of years. 
"It did not seem possible, we both agreed, that fifty years had passed since we sat on Sorin porch--endowed with all the juices of life and surrounded by lovely autumn afternoons," Fis­cher laments as he encounters an old classmate in front of the administration building. 
"Those were the days we took tests under the Dome without once realizing how we die a little in the time it takes to put a period at the end of a sentence," Fischer continues. 
Fischer does not pretend to tell us how to live, but he does tell us how precious life is and gives us examples of individuals who have lived lives of grace despite the realities of the world. 
"We were still young enough to think that as we ran up Sorin stairway nothing changed. But in those few seconds everything in the universe was changing and has been ever since. 
"Like every graduating class we stepped from campus life into a world of hard choices. Many of our ideas of reality were severely chal­lenged, as we learned the gap between inten­tions and results. And as we should have known, all of our plans were subject to God's veto," Fischer concedes. 
Joe Murphy 
Editor-in-Chief 


When summer comes, the students will have left Notre Dame. Most will be back to burn in the August sun, but some, the seniors, will find new lives awaiting them. 
Hopefully, the seniors' all-too-short years at Notre Dame have provided a foundation of com­passion, competence and commitment to serve others as pthers have served them. 
For the Class of 1987, spring is its last season under the Dome. With spring's warmth comes an appropriate opportunity to remember the people--family, faculty, religious, and administrators--who have made us what we are and who have prepared as we go forth to live as we have been raised. 
May will come quickly. 

FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674-6993 
OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
__ .... 


The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 3 
Mad Mavericks AP photo 
Unidentified SMU students protest the alleged decision of mem­bers of the school's board of'governors to pay football players. 


Democrats urge delay of contra aid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON House Democrats, including one declaring Nicaragua's Contra rebels "mired in corruption," urged colleagues Tuesday to delay $40 million in military aid and insist the Reagan adminis­tration pursue opportunities for peace in Central America. 
House Speaker Jim Wright of Texas told reporters that Wed­nesday's House vote on the aid installment will represent the start of a new, long-term struggle over the administra­tion's policy. 
He said that while Democrats may lose the opening skirmish, the vote will serve as an important building stone in the battle to cut off aid to the Contras permanently. 
House Republican Leader Bob Michel of Illinois acknowl­edged that the Contra-aid cause had been hurt by revela­tions of the Iran-Contra affair, including allegations that prof­its from arms sales were diverted to the rebels. 
"That hasn't helped us..•. I have to be realistic when I see votes slipping away," Michel said. 
However, Wright conceded that he cannot count on the votes to enforce a moratorium on spending the money in view of President Reagan's certain veto. He said the $40 million, the last installment in a $100 million aid package approved last year, ''probably will go for­ward." 
Most lawmakers agreed, and Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said the money was "in the bank." 
But Wright said a strong vote to stall on making the money available will signal the White House that future aid requests will be in serious trouble on Capitol Hill. 
At the White House, during a meeting with House and Senate Republicans, Reagan said of the House Democrats, "All they are trying to do is break the commitment that the Congress made last year." 
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said "the president most certainly would veto" such a move, and he added, "we think we have the votes to sustain a veto." 
Sen. Christopher J. Dodd, D­Conn., a Contra aid opponent, said that because there is no 

BOB CORRIGAN 
PIANIST 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11 9:00-12:00 



THEODORE'S 
FREE FOOD AND ADMISSION Sponsered By Junior Class 

Milky Way and Westwood One ·Radio Network 
special guests 
orgia Satellites aturday, March 28 8:00 Notre Dame A. C. C. All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office Charge by phone V/SAIMC call (219)239-7460 
chance of rallying the two-thirds majorities required to override a presidential veto, no political capital should be ex­pended on the $40 million weapons-aid issue. 
Dodd said the major battle should be to end the Contra aid effort pemanently -by scrap­ping a separate Reagan re­quest for $105 million in further aid. 
House Majority Leader Tom Foley, D-Wash., said of Wed­nesday's vote, "What we're demonstrating by this vote is that the president doesn't have the votes to get the $105 mil­lion." 
Wright and his allies say they 
want urgent U.S. support for the peace plan offered last,~.month by Costa Rican Presi­dent Oscar Arias and for sig­nificant economic aid to the four Central American democracies: Costa Rica, Hon­duras, Guatemala and El Sal­vador. 
Arias has proposed a cease­fire for all the region's con­flicts, together with negotia­tions aimed at political settlements and free elections not only in Nicaragua but also in El Salvador and Guatemala. 
ND grad announces presidential candidacy 
Associated Press  Moving quickly to try to sep­arate himself from his rivals  
MANCHESTER,  n.h.  -for  the  nomination,  Babbitt  

Former Arizona governor and proposed increasing the tax on Notre Dame graduate Bruce Social Security benefits for Babbitt of Arizona, drawing ap-higher-income Americans, plause when he criticized capping the mortgage interest "amateurs in charge of the deduction, and writing new White House," declared his rules for world trade. candidacy Tuesday for the 1988 The 48-year-old former Democratic presidential governor also pledged he would nomination. "never trade anything of value 
Happy Golden Birthday on March 20th, Steve Corr! Sorry I won't be there to 
"monkey around." 
I love you... (shhhh) Margie 
GRADUATE NURSES 
Your education will not end with graduation. As a gradu4te. nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receiVe a comprehensive twelve-week-long, fully-paid orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orjentation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Graduates apply now for positions available in1987. Statting salal) $23,681. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed acute-care Meyo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital Personnel Services Nursing Recruitment Section 201 West Center Street Rochester, MN 55902 Call Collect: (507) 286-7091 
for a hostage," even if it meant 
some would be killed. 
Babbitt chose to spend hh. 
first day as a candidate in the 
three areas that will be crucial 
to his dark-horse effort. He 
began in New Hampshire, 
which holds the first primary, 
then flew to Iowa, where the 
first caucuses will be held, and 
was spending the night in the 
South where most states are 
holding their primaries and 
caucuses on the same day, 
March 8, 1988. 
During a campaign stop in Des Moines, Iowa, Babbitt said he would consider hostage­taking as ''an act of war." 
He conceded it's "heart­
wrenching" to see hostages 
pleading for their lives but said 
leaders should stand firm, and 
the public backs that view. 
He said his policy would be "simply to say the taking of hostages will be treated as an act of war. 
"What we are going to do is say we are at war with that na­tion," Babbitt said. He said the country should use "diplomatic and economic" sanctions, but "we can't exclude the use of force and I don't." 
Babbitt joined Rep. Richard Gephardt of Missouri in the Democratic race. 
Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachusetts plans to an­nounce his plans next week, and former Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado has scheduled his an­nouncement for April 13. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson and Sen. Joseph Eiden of Delaware also are expected to enter the race, and Sen. Dale Bumpers of Arkansas is considering be­coming a candidate as well. 
With his wife and two sons on the platform, Babbitt declared his candidacy before about 200 supporters at Science Enrich­ment Encounters, a display of science and industrial exhibits geared to children. 
His speech contained several allusions to the Iran-Contra af­fair although he never referred directly to the investigations. 



AMERICAN 
CANCER
~ 
• SOCIETY" 
----------------------~-------­
-----------~­The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 4 



Security Beat 
The following incidents were re­ported to Notre Dame Security this week: 
Sunday 
11:20 a.m. -A resident of Keenan Hall reported the theft of a digital alarm clock along with some van­dalism being done in the dorm. Victim estimated his loss to be $22.00. 
4:51p.m. -A Fisher Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet, watch, and high school ring. Vic­tim stated his Joss to be approxi­mately $430.00. 
Monday 
1:45 a.m. -The producer of the Keenan Revue reported the theft of $150.00 in proceeds from an en­velope located inside his room. The victim stated his room door was closed but not locked at the time the theft occurred The same person also reported a camera missing from his room while he was working on the Revue in Jan­uary. The camera value is esti­mated at $120.00. 
Accelerator physics has 
•


anniversary 
Special to The Observer 
This past fall marked the fif­tieth anniversary of ac­celerator physics at Notre Dame, where physicists were among the first to use electro­static accelerators, popularly called atom smashers, to study the atomic nucleus and the first to disintegrate the nucleus of an atom by electron bombard­ments. 
Accelerator physics at Notre Dame began with a do-it ­yourself approach. On a $900 budget and almsot entirely with volunteer labor a huge Van de Graft generator, while simple compared to today's high-powered machines, was capable of generating poten­tials up to 1.8 million volts. 
[\'1 ?.>\I-
The generator was ,' first operated in October, 1926, and by the following year the ac­celerating tube connected the terminal to an adjacent room, where nuclear experiments were conducted. Initially, re­searchers climbed inside the terminal to adjust the electron source as the generator ran. 
Using this home-made in­strument, Notre Dame scien­tists were the first to show that the nucleus could be disin­tegrated by electron bombard­ment. Through the years the acceleration of electrons remained a trademark of Notre Dame accelerator labs for close to forty years. 
Early on, the weaknesses of the open-air generating system were obvious. South Bend's humid climate limited experi­ments to the winter months, and even then it was difficult to reach the voltages desired for research. Due to moisture in the air, sparks--actually lightning bolts, some 15 to 17 feet long--flashed out in all di­rections from the terminal and a purplish corona could fill the room when high voltages were reached. 
Frustrated by the open-air accelerator's limitations, Notre Dame physicists built a second accelerator in 1940-41. 

1:15 a.m. -A Plainfield, Indiana, resident reported that some items were stolen from his vehicle while he was visiting the Notre Dame area. The vehicle was locked at the time the theft occurred and, according to the victim, the car was locked when he returned to it. Taken from the vehicle was a mens' suit, trench coat, pen set, radar detector and several cas­sette tapes with a total value of $469.99. There were no signs of forced entry. 
12:30 p.m. -A Holy Cross Hall res­ident reported the theft of his Notre Dame class ring from in­side his unlocked room. The vic­tim estimated his loss at $310.00. 
1:35 p.m. -The manager of Notre Dame Vending reported that one of its machines located in Keenan Hall was damaged and all prod­ucts inside stolen. No damage es­timate or loss was available when the incident was reported. 
5:00 p.m. -An Alumni Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his book­bag and its contents from the 

.. _ 

lobby of South Dining Hall. The victim stated his Joss to be$111.00. 
Tuesday 
2:00p.m. -A Lyons Hall resident reported the theft of her backpack and its contents from the lobby of the South Dining Hall while she was eating lunch. The victim es­timated her loss at $98.00. 
5:55 p.m. -A resident of Fisher Hall reported the theft of a stereo, booster, and equalizer from his vehicle parked in the D1 lot. The victim had only been away from the vehicle for about twenty minutes and found the car se­cured when he returned. A coat hanger was found on the floor of the vehicle and is presumably the instrument used to gain entry. Victim stated his loss to be $290.00. 
2:45 p.m. -The rector of Fisher Hall reported the theft of a tele­phone from one the residents' rooms to the Office of Residence Life who in turn contacted Secur­ity. The value of the phone is placed at $100.00 
Incumbent wins third term as Ireland's prime minister 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN, Ireland -Charles Haughey won a third term as Ireland's prime minister today in a cliffhanger session of Par­liament that gave him a one­vote majority. 
The Dail, or parliament, split 82-82 after debate on his nomination. Speaker Sean Treacy then used his vote to break the tie in Haughey's fa­vor. 
All four opposition parties united in voting against Haug­hey, whose Fianna Fail party won 81 seats in the Feb. 17 elec­tion. All the opposition parties in the 166-seat body nominated their own leaders for taoiseach, or prime minister. None had any chance of winning, but Haughey's prospects were not certain until almost the last minute. 
Haughey's election was as­sured when Marxist indepen­his abstention shortly before the ballot. 
Haughey was supported by his Fianna Fail party and also got the vote of Neil Blaney, an independent and an anti­British nationalist. 
Blaney signaled potential trouble for Haughey when he said his support was condi­tional on the new government "reviewing" the 1985 Anglo­Irish Agreement on Northern Ireland. 
Blaney said he opposed the agreement because "it gives the British the right to be in this country." The agreement gives Ireland a say in the run­ning of Northern Ireland, but also contains Irish recognition of long-term British sovereignty over the province, which Irish nationalists con­tend is part of Ireland. 
Britain has warned it will not accept any change of the agree­ment until it comes up for review in November 1988 as 
This Spring Break, if you and your friends are thinking about heading to the slopes, the beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound' can take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. 
From February 15 through April27, all you do is show us your college student I.D. card when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will 
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date of purchase. So this Spring Break, get a real break. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. For more information, call Greyhound. 
Must pr!'Smt a \'ahd college: student 1.0 cud upon pwchast !'(o other d.Jscount'i applv r1..:kt:b _are nontransferable and good for ~r.~vel on Greyhound lme,, Inc . and other paructpaung au'Tl(r. <.en.am rtSb'll"tlons apply. Offer effective-2'1518b Offer hmued ~ot valid Ill Canada 
.i-IP~~f!Yl!2!/!!!!: 
Michiana Regional Airport, 4671 Terminal Drive, South Bend, IN, 287-6541 The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 5 

Fired CBS employees worry about network 
fully that the network will
Associated Press 


AP photo

Heading home 
Palestinian women carrying food supplies Justice Minister Nahib Berri's AMAL move­return to their refugee camp across a check­ment which has been besieging the camp since point manned by Shiite Moslem militiamen of November. 


Self-determination evidence shown 
Special to The Observer In a recent issue of such as environment, biologi­
''American Psychologist,'' cal factors, and so forth. 
Scientific evidence for self­Howard with doctoral can­In the first two studies, determination, a basic human didate Christine Conway pub­Howard and Conway chose a process that underlies free will, lished three studies that dem­noncontroversial, pleasurable personal responsibility, and le­onstrate the force of activity for his student sub­gal culpability, was presented self-determination in human jects: peanut consumption. recently by a Notre Dame psy­behavior. Over an extended periods of chologist. time, the two psychologists "This is the first time anyone Howard had reasoned that if each day randomly assigned has succeeded in quantifying humans have the capacity to their subjects the task of eating personal agency,'' says George behave by their own volition, or not eating peanuts and Howard, associate professor then individuals might be ex­studied their subjects' abilities and chairman of psychology at pected to be able to control to control their behavior ac­Notre Dame. "And while their behavior. Using a sub­cordingly. In these studies, human beings do not appear to ject's self-control as a warrant they found that volition ap­be completely free to act for volitional behavior, he peared to be about five times 
against their biological, envi­developed a method to quantify more influential than certain ronmental, and social con­personal agency that is based external influences, such as straints, it is now obvious that upon random assignment tech­written reminders of peanuts human beings have an enor­niques. With this method he or the visible presence of mous range of flexibility in was able to eliminate compet­peanuts in their dormitory what they choose to do." ing explanations for his results, rooms. 
NEW YORK -CBS news, the network of Edward Murrow, is reeling from the abrupt firing of more than 200 of its 1,200 news employees, prompting current and former staffers to worry about its future. 
Former CBS news President Bill Leonard said in a telephone interview from his home in Washington that he found the layoffs of last week "horrify­ing." 
"I frankly despair for the fu­ture of CBS news," he said. 
Former "CBS evening News" executive producer Burton Benjamin, now at the Gannett Center for Media Studies at Columbia Univer­sity, said he felt "tremendous sadness" but predicted hope-rebound. 
However, former CBS corre­spondent Hughes Rudd, from the vantage point of retirement in the south of France, called the cuts "long overdue." 
A frequent and outspoken critic of network news even when he was in the thick of it, Rudd left CBS for ABC seven years ago and retired last year. 
"The fact is, all the network news divisions got so fat and happy," Rudd said in a tele­phone interview. "For years, it seems to me, they didn't even care about your expense ac­counts as long as you turned in something to show for it. Money used to fly around like dead leaves at CBS." 

Elections 
continued/rom page J 
Ombudsman withdrew from supervision in protest last Wed­nesday. 
Cintron, referring to the ac­tion which occurred as a part of a protest to the Student Sen­ate's amendment of election rules last Monday, said there were "no hard feelings." 
"Tom (Brennan, OBUD co­director) and Dan (Gamache, OBUD elections officer) were quite helpful," she said. "They let us use their ballot boxes and answered our questions when they could have been real jerks." 
As to the absence of OBUD from the supervision of these elections, Cintron said the departure had had no signifi­cant effect. "The elections were fair, even without OBUD. 
They went as smoothly as they could have gone, given what happened." 
She said counting the votes and enforcing the election rules without OBUD had posed no great problems, with the tabulations of Tuesday's elec­tions being finished by 9 p.m. 
One incident that could have proven to be a problem was the failure to detect an ineligible candidate until shortly before the elections, she said. This she ascribed to a fault of OBUD, however. 
Cintron did not speculate whether efforts would be made to have OBUD supervise future elections. 
Cintron with Student Body President Mike Switek, Stu­dent Body Vice President Don Montanaro, Student Body President-elect Pat Cooke and members of the student senate collected and tabulated the bal­lots in OBUD's place. 

The Observer 

Study: Balloons don't stop surgery 
Associated Press 
NEW Orleans-The use of tiny balloons to unclog heart ar­teries is growing dramatically, but it seems to have done little to cut into the high prevalence of expensive coronary bypass surgery, a study has found. 
The non-surgical procedure, known as angioplasty, is being done on increasingly sicker patients with better results, re­searchers found. 
However, the researchers say that while angioplasty was used on 150,000 Americans last year, bypass surgery was per­formed on 250,000 Americans in the same period. 
Both angioplasty and bypass surgery are performed to relieve obstructions in the cri­tical arteries that feed the heart muscle. These blockages can contribute to heart attacks, and their major symptom is chest pain called angina. 

The first angioplasty was performed 10 years ago. By 1979, it was conducted on 3,000 people, usually those with a single narrowing of one coro­nary artery. That grew to 60,000 people in 1984, 100,000 in 1985 and 150,000 last year. 
In several papers presented this week at the annual meeting of the American College of Car­diology, researchers described the results of a large followup of angioplasty sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute that examined differences in angioplasty be­tween 1980 and 1985. 
Dr. Katherine Detre of the University of Pittsburgh said the statistics show that an­gioplasty is being performed on people with far more advanced heart disease than it was in the early days, and that results continue to improve. 
The procedure was success­ful 87 percent of the time in 1985, compared with 67 percent five years earlier. 
Despite the more compl­icated cases, the death rate is the same--about 1 percent. And the need for emergency bypass operations to rescue patients from unsuccessful angioplasty fell from 6 percent of cases to 4 percent. 
"Angioplasty is being done in much more severely a~fected patients, and it's more success­ful. It's a good news story," said Dr. Eugene Passamani of the heart institute. 
Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 6 

Lardner on a sub-committee for student interest, said
HPC 

"there seems to be a distinction 
continued/rom page 1 

between drunk driving on 
washed its hands," he said, campus and off-campus. But citing cases in which students 
there also seems to be a dis­
were suspended for involve­tinction between being just 
ment in alcohol-related acci­stopped (for driving while in­

dents. "Once tragedy happens, toxicated) and when there's an 

you deal with the tragedy. Up 

accident (involving another to that point you go by the person)," Cahill said. In rule," said Lardner. 
other business, the HPC heard 
Lardner said the Office of from M.T. Broughton, a stu­Student Affairs formed a com­dent assistant who spoke on the 

mittee to propose such a policy. 

Notre Dame Phone-a-thon. 
The committee is comprised of "We're here to ask you to find 

four sub-committees which people in your dorm interested 

meet with members of the ad­in participating in the phone-a­
ministration, students and city thon," Broughton said. Mike 
officials, he said. Napier, a student assistant 
Cahill, who serves with working with Broughton, said 
irNDAVEAP~1 Early Bird Special ~ 
§ § 
§ Now renting for Fall ~ § 2 Bedrooms completely ~ furnished § Sign up before break and t § receive n 10% discount ~ ~ Call 234-6647 § 
~ Pro.tected by Pinkerton Security ~ 
~·~<Q><Q".·Q>·Q>~~!~J..'Q>·Q>~-cQ><Q><Q>·Q><b·<Q>§ 

Get ready for 
Spring Break! 
Wed: Well Drinks 
Band: The Law 75 ¢ 
hurs: Pre-St. Patrick' Day Party 
Club will be closed Friday and Saturday 
dorms whose students partici­pate can get money. 
The Phone-a-thon involves calling alumni to solicit funds for salaries and scholarships, Broughton said. Cahill said "it's a good way to make money for your dorm." 
Cahill announced the HaU Presidents' Council Banquet will be held at Tippecanoe Place on April 7. The new HPC chairman or co-chairmen will be elected at the banquet, Cahill said. 
Experts describe caffeine effects 
Associated Press "We found people who professor at Colgate University 
describe themselves as less im­in Hamilton, N.Y., said she and 
CHICAGO -That jolt of caf­pulsive, people who take their Revelle contend that intro­
feine in a morning cup of coffee time to make a decision, their verted people are hindered by 
or tea improves an impulsive, performance was severely hin­caffeine in the morning be­
extroverted person's work on dered (by caffeine) in the mor­cause they already are more 
complex reasoning tasks, but ning," said William Revelle, a aroused and awake then. 
does the opposite for thoughtful psychology professor at 
introverts, two psychology pro­Northwestern University in Caffeine appears to over­
fessors said Tuesday. Evanston. stimulate this type of person,
Caffeine in doses equivalent Revelle said his findings on interfering with their reason­
to one to three cups of coffee caffeine's effects on thinking ing ability, she said. helps both types of people per­have ·been refined from re­form simple mental jobs, the search begun at Northwestern Impulsive, extroverts are pyschologists said they have seven years ago with studies on helped by a boost of caffeine 
found in seven years of re­700 people. becauseittakesthemlongertosearch. 
Those findings recently have wake up mentally in the mor­
When the mental tasks be­been corroborated by psychol­ning, she said. come more difficult, such as ogist Kristen Anderson, who proofreading for grammatical worked with Revelle on the ear­"Basically, everybody tends 
mistakes, impulsive people 
lier research, in a separate to get better the higher the dose who thrive on snap decisions study of 100 people, finished of caffeine if the task is ex­
perform better in the morning last fall. tremely simple," Ms. Ander­with caffeine, they said. 
Ms. Anderson, an assistant son said. 
$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: A VALUABLE PROGRAM. A PERSONAL CHALLENGE. 
The NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship that's worth as much as $25,000. And it offers you the opportunity to become a Navy officer and stan a successful career. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and provides an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you'll become pan of the Navy adventure as a commissioned Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
1-800-221-5932 
NAVY1¥lOFFICER. 



LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 

\1ie~~_O_i_D__t______________we-dnes~day,-Mar-chu~,198~7-pa~ge7 
Reagan has stretched broad arms negotiation 
Anyone waiting for sparkling clear siles, very similar to those used to evidence of President Reagan's com­launch an offensive nuclear weapon, , plete disregard for -his outright rejec­designed to be launched and guided to tion of-arms control need wait no an intercept of an enemy nuclear war­longer. head. 
The treaty does permit these types
Tom Walsh of weapons, but their numbers are severely limited (100 missile launchers per side) and they may only be based
guest column 

at one permanent ground-based loca­tion (national capital or military instal­Never mind the Administration's lation). They cannot be mobile-ground­wholehearted contribution to the per­based (on trains, trucks, etc), nor may haps fatal erosion of the SALT II limits they be based at sea, in the air, or put this past fall. in space. On this particular matter, 
Never mind its complete refusal to both interpretations appear to agree. consider a verifiable comprehensive Yet the Administration is in fact nuclear test ban. desperately anxious to violate even 
Forget even its backbreaking effort these "accepted" restrictions. Since to break the back of the 1972 Antibal­"exotic" weapons (still requiring much listic Missile Treaty by Simply declar­research and testing) are still many ing that, well, all these years our inter­years off (if feasible at all), only "tradi­The Notre Dame Alumni Association increasing the awareness of responsi­pretatios of it has been too tional technology" weapons are possi­at its winter meeting discussed at bility in dealing with alcohol. The "restrictive" and it really does permit ble in the foreseeable future. length its concern over the abuse of al­formation of a Bacchus chapter on the all kinds of Star Wars research. Never The Administration, however, fears cohol and the recent effect it has had Notre Dame campus is most mind that the men who wrote the treaty that support for SDI will disappear on the Notre Da:me family. I do not noteworthy. We are proud of the lead­disagree flatly; never mind that the before "exotic" weapons can come know of another institution in the ership role that members of the local 
U.S. Senate that ratified the treaty un­around unless something is done to country that would have expressed the chapter are taking at both the state and derstood it to be "restrictive"; never "keep the program moving forward." broad degree of compassion and love national level. Those of us who are for­mind that American career diplomats That "something" they desire is the for those individuals directly involved tunate enough to have heard the and foreign affairs experts have used placing in space of 10 thousand (or in the tragedies that visited our campus remarks of Mark Herkert as he ac­words like "sleazy" to describe the Ad­more) of those very antimissile mis­last fall. cepted the Distinguished Student ministration's arguments for a "broad siles which are restricted -which flies Award last spring were greatly touched interpretation." in the face of even those portions of the Joseph Reich by the change that came about in his 
Never mind that, if the Administra­ABM Treaty over which there is no con­life, and how he fought alcoholism while tion's "broad" interpretation were cor­troversy. turning his life around. rect, it wouldn't have even made sense They claim that indeed such a system guest column The Alumni Association is committed for the United States and Soviet Union is based on "new" technical principles: to addressing the problem. We have in­to bother writing much of the treaty, these missiles would destroy a target Life teaches us that when something itiated a program by providing a as it ends up saying absolutely nothing by being guided to a direct collision goes awry, steps must be taken to cor­meeting place for members of Al­-or that as recently as April 1985 the with it, whereas in 1972 a defensive mis­rect it. In the late 1970's the members coholics Anonymous to meet before Reagan Administration itself strongly sile needed to explode near a target to of today's student body were not yet in home football games. In our continuing 
1
reaffirmed the "restrictive" interpre­destroy it, as it could not be guided ex­high school, but visitors to the Notre commitment to increase the awareness 
~
tation. actly to a speeding target. Dame campus were shocked and of alcohol abuse, we voted to present Here, though, is the clincher: The Ad­This, like the argument for the surprised to witness the excessive use to the Alumni Senior Club a framed set 
~ 
ministration's current number one "broad" interpretation itself, is rub­and abuse of alcohol that existed there. of the Reader's Digest Foundation Al­1 arms priority is "early deployment" of bish. High speed collisions between I know, because I saw this on a football cohol Awareness posters. It is our hope 1 Star Wars weaponry that would violate fast-moving chunks of metal are not weekend. that the management of the Club will 1
,
even its very own "broad" interpreta­new. Such a system would utilize im­The Administration recognized a display these in a prominent place in tion. They're ready to break the rules proved technologies (mostly relating to problem and set about to correct the the club and periodically rotate them 1 they write themselves. guidance systems), yet it would clearly societal imbalance that existed be­for effectiveness. 
The debate between the "broad" and be based on absolutely no "new" physi­cause of alcohol abuse. The policy that We are dedicated to the concept of 
1
"restrictive" interpretations of the cal principles -if it is, at what point was was promulgated three years ago has responsible use without abuse. We treaty centers primarily on weapons the cross-over from the old to the new a lasting effect of bringing a greater stand ready to support such organiza­based on "exotic new physical prin­made? awareness of alcohol abuse to everyone tions on campus as Bacchus and A.A. ciples" (such as lasers). But these If anyone needed evidence of this Ad­in the Notre Dame family. The action in whatever way we can. It is through weapons are not the problem here. ministration's bald-faced hostility was also recognized by other college organizations such as these that aware­
The treaty also focuses on "tradition­towards arms control diplomacy, this and university administrators as being ness by the student body of the dangers al" or "existing" antimissile technolo­is it. positive as they contacted Notre Dame of the abuse will be increased. gies, meaning those types of weapons for details on the policy. 
existing in the early 70's when the Tom Walsh is a 1983 graduate of Notre We of the Alumni Association are Joseph A. Reich, Jr. is the President of treaty was written: rockets and mis-Dame. pleased to see student involvement in the National Alumni Board. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"If you expect perfection from people, your whole life is a series of disappointments. If you pitch your expectations low, taking folks as the inefficient creatures which they are, you are frequent­ly surprised by having them per­form better than you had hoped." 
Bruce Borton 

Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the vle"is of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1H8 
Alumni Board supports more alcohol awareness 

··-·.~··~-·· 
Accent 

Students give gift of life to Central Blood Bank 
KENDRA MORRILL features writer 
A 
little over a year and a half ago, Notre Dame student Kevin Hurley was critically in­jured while crossing U.S. 31. In immediate need of a blood transfusion, he did not have time to call his friends or fam­ily back home in Massachusetts to ask for their help. He received the blood he needed, though, and today is alive and along the road to recuperation. Very possibly, the blood of Notre Dame students or St. 
"Some people may feel that donating blood is unsafe because of the rumors about AIDS; Quinn terms this fear 'absolutely felonious." 
Joseph county residents saved Kevin's life. 
Dr. Gerald Quinn, medical director for the Central Blood Bank of the South Bend Medi­cal Foundation, related this Incident In which a Notre Dame student received what many others have given so freely -· life-saving blood. The Central Blood Bank provides needed blood to accident victims, sur­gery patients, those undergo­Ing cancer chemotherapy treat­ment and others who may require trasfuslons. 
Quinn described how one donated unit of blood can be broken down Into three seperate components •• red cells, platelets and plasma. Each component serves a dif­ferent purpose. Red blood cells can be given to surgery patients or accident victims to replace cells they lose through bleeding during the operation or through wounds. Red blood cells and platelets, which are tiny cells that promote clotting, are often needed by cancer patients undergoing chemot­herapy. 
Potent and toxic chemicals destroy red cell, white cell, and platelet manufacture. Bone marrow, which contains the most active cells, "gets wiped out," Quinn said. "the cells are vastly reduced In number and (the cancer patients) can't fight day to day exposure to viruses that you and I can. They need blood donors to get them over crises." 

Plasma contains various blood proteins. Individuals who suffer from severe liver disease cannot make certain plasma proteins and require occasional plasma replacement. Plasma has an added benefit in that it can be stored frozen for a long period o! time, and after thawing (In about 20 minutes) has the same effect as if it were donated that day. Whole blood has a shelf life of 35 days, but the proteins begin to deteriorate in five to seven days. 
According to Quinn, 114 units of blood must be donated to arrive at 100 usable units. Donated units have to pass a "pretty Intense screening process," and not all blood passes the required tests. Among the tests are an AIDS antibody screening, a syphilis test, and surrgogate tests for non-A and non-B type hepatitis. 
Acceptable blood Is taken from healthy 17 to 65-year-olds who have not had hepatitis and are not In an AIDS-at-risk group (homosexual males or Intravenous drug abusers). 
With all the rumors about AIDS, some people may feel that donating blood Is unsafe because It poses a risk of con­tracting the disease. Quinn terms this fear "absolutely felonious." He says It Is vir­tually Impossible to contract AIDS through donating blood. The needles are completely sterile and are discarded after each use. He adds, however, that there Is a very slim risk of contracting AIDS by receiving blood. The reason for this Is that a person can acquire the virus, yet the detectable an­tibody will not develop im­nmediately. That person could donate blood without the an­tibody being detected. "The chances of this happening are extremely remote but they do exist," said Quinn. 
In 1986, the blood bank drew about 16,400 units of blood (each unit is equivalent to a pint) from St. Joseph County residents, collecting from both the South Bend Medical Foundation on Lafayette Street and from various "remotes", said Quinn. 
Remote draws, he explained, are held at different locations in St. Joseph County. Notre Dame is one of these remotes and with a donation of 532 units In 1986 is the largest contributor. Another remote is the St. Joseph Medical Center, which donated 164 units In 
1986. 
The number of units of blood collected each year at Notre Dame has been steadily In­creasing since 1983, Quinn said. 193 pints were collected 
"In 1986, the blood bank drew about 16,400 units from St. Joseph County residents." 
In 1983, 386 in 1984, 506 In 1985, and 532 In 1986. The numbers may very well con­tinue to Increase In 1987, es­pecially since a major blood drive has begun on both North and South Quads. Stanford has challenged any North Quad dorm to exceed the amount of blood it collects, said Stuart Steichen, who is In charge of Stanford's blood drive. 
Similarly, Alumni has issued the same challenAe to South Quad dorms. Quinn cites Alumni as the "strongest dorm," donating 140 out of the 
532 units collected at Notre Dame last year. Alumni also Initiated the process of the blood bank coming right to the dorms, rather than the stu­dents having to go the Infir­mary as was done In the past. Quinn feels that students seem to respond better to something when It Is familiar to them, which makes the dorm a com­fortable environment In which to give blood. 

Maureen Trubac Is the blood bank's recruiting director and has been Instrumental In set­ting up drives In the dorms at Notre Dame. Any halls that want to respond to Stanford's and Alumni's challenges should contact her at the South Bend Medical Foundation Central Laboratory as soon as possible. 
While donating blood Is now done strictly on a volunteer basis, orlor to 1974 donors 
were paid $25 for each unit donated. Quinn said donating used to be a source of some revenue for "good, loyal, clean, paid donors" in St. Joseph County. However, in bigger cities such as New York and Los Angeles, the people who would donate blood for $25 "weren't the caliber of individ­uals you'd want in your blood bank." The Federal Govern­ment urged blood banks not to accept paid donors. Quinn said this made It more difficult, and that "Notre Dame students were many times the recipients of the $25." 
How does the bank now elicit a respone from students and other potential donators? Quinn believes It appeals to a sense of altruism and sympa­thy. Initially, he said, the reac­tion to donating blood may be negative. One may realize that there Is a mild Inconvenience, but then considers how trivial this Is compared to the fact that he or she Is participating In the saving of lives. "Weigh­Ing gain versus cost," Quinn stated, "you say 'It's not that bad after all, is it?" 
Notre Dame students should be strongly commended for their support of the blood bank. said Quinn. If he had one message to send to Notre Dame students, It would be that they have "a lot to be proud of. There's a lot of ap­preciative people out there." One need only look at the ex­ample of one Notre Dame stu­dent who Is alive today be­cause others unselfishly gave a little bit of themselves. 

St. Ed's Hall Players debut 
Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 8 -9 
Alumni provide comforts in Florida 
COLLEEN CLYNES features writer 
T 
onlght is the last night to catch "Love, Sex and the I.R.S.," the premiere produc­tion by the newly formed St. Edward's Hall Players. 
The St. Ed's Hall Players began this year through the efforts of Hall President Andrew Barlow and Club President Duane Defranco. Under the guidance of St. Ed's previous rector, Father Mario, the hall annually presented an in-hall production. "Father Mario studied under the well known actor, director and teacher of drama Lee Straussberg and so encouraged these theater productions of the dorm," said Defranco. "So with Father Mario's departure, so also went the annual plays." 
That is, until now. In an ef­fort to keep up this traditional dorm production, the St. Ed's Hall Players was created. The club now contains approxi­mately 40 m'embers. 
"Love, Sex and the i.R.S," written by William Van Zandt and Jane Milmore, involves the complication of mistaken iden­
with 'Love, Sex, I.R.S.' 
tlty. And what a complication It Is. The plot revolves around two male roommates, Leslie and John, who attempt to trick the I.R.S. Given Leslie's sexually amblglous first name, John declares Leslie as his wife to obtain a cheaper tax bracket. All Is well until the 
I.R.S. comes to call, and the chaos begins. Leslie must dress his (her?!) part for the tax men, disrupting his life and his ongoing affair with John's fiance. And to make things In­teresting, John's mom pays her son a visit and meets his female (or male?) roomie. Con­fused? Don't be. This play Is chock full of surprises, includ­ing hippie wedding ceremonies, sexual puns and oh no •· a mom getting drunk and eventually visiting the por­celain god. 
"I chose this play because I had seen it before and thought' it was great. It requires a small amount of technical work such as lights and· special effects; I knew it would go over well be­cause it's extremely, extremely funny," said Defranco. 
"I think it's a great opportu­nlty for students to get In­"Love, Sex, and the I.R. S" volved in student-run produc­ends its three-day run tonight. tions," said Nancy O'Connor, a The show begins at 8 p. m in member of the club and cast of Washington Hail. Admission is "Love, Sex and the I.R.S." $1.50. 

A 
II Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross Junior College students who will be in the Ft. Lauderdale area for Spring Break '87 are welcome to come to the Alumni Association's Hospitality Center located at the Student Activities Headquarters in the Riveria Motel on the beach. The Hospitality Center is open from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. and will be staffed by Alumni Director Chuck Lennon, Assistant Director Bubba Cunningham, SARG member David Fallszek. and Assistant Director of the St. Mary's Alumni Association, Kay Cochrane. Members of the local Alumni Clubs of Ft. Lauderdale will also help staff the center. 
Activities include free WAlTS phone line, orange juice, newspapers, information board, student locator flle, Mass (Saturday and Sunday), food and Coca-Cola for return trip home, daily shopping center bus trips, baseball games (Yankees vs. Expos and White Sox), excursions, pool parties, tennis court dances and bookstore basketball (pre-season tourney), big screen 1V to watch NCAA Tourney, tennis volleyball and two parades. 
Be sure to bring your Notre Dame, St. Mary's or Holy Cross Jr. College ID card. rounded by Alumni Association, Student Activities Board and Coca-Cola Co. 
Sunday Saturday March 15 
March 14 8 a.m. toto p.m. 
8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Watts line open all day 
Mass (transporatlon by Orange juice and Newspaper Alumni Van) II a.m. Shopping Center Trips St. Patrick's Day Parade, City Excursion Trips (optional) of rt. Lauderdale Bookstore Basketball, Tennis Watts Line open all day 
Monday 

March 16 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Watts line all day 
Orange juice and Newspaper 
St. Patrick's Day Parade (Los Alos Blvd. Parade) 
Shopping Center Trips Local Alumni Club St. Patrick's Day Parade Bookstore Basketball, Tennis and Volleyball Excursion Trips (optional) 
Tuesday 

March 17 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Watts line all day Orange juice and Newspaper Shopping Center Tours Bookstore Basketball, Tennis 
and Volleyball Tennis Court Party at Rlverla Motel Excursion Trips (optional) 
Wednesday 
March 18 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Watts line all day Orange juice and Newspaper Shopping Center Tours Bookstore Basketball, Tennis 
and Volleyball Night Game -Yankees vs Expos Excursion Trips (optional) 
Thursday 
March 19 8 a.m. to to p.m. Watts line all day Orange juice and Newspaper Shopping Center Tours Bookstore Basketball, Tennis 
and Volleyball 

announces cast for 'Macbeth' 
Special to The Observer 
T 
he cast has been an­nounced for the Notre Dame&tlnt Mary's Theatre season finale, "Macbeth," pre­sented by the Notre Dame communication and theatre department. More than 80 stu­dents auditioned for roles In the play, which Is one of Shakespeare's best known tragedies. Rehearsals will begin Immediately with Professor Reginald Bain directing, Willard Neuert will be designing the sets and lights and Jayne Jaynes, an Indiana University at South Bend professor, will be designing the costumes. Stu­dents who were cast are: 
First Witch Laurie Shea Second Witch Kimberly Brown Third Witch Mary Louisa 
Meehan 
Duncan David Scheidler 
Malcolm Joe Medel 
Noon Baseball • Yankees vs. White Sox Excursion Trips (optional) 
8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
Watts line all day 
Orange juice l!t Newspaper 
Mass 4 p.m. 
Food and Coca-Cola distribution (after Mass) (each student will receive sand­wiches, fruit and a six-pack of Coca-Cola for trip back to campus) 
Hospitality Center Is located at the Rlverla Motel. Look for the Alumni Association Mobile Office Van. 
Donalbaln ~rlan C. Shea 
Lennox Ell Coats, Jr. 
Ross Mark Costanzl 
Angus Richard Goode 
Captain Gary Glass 
Macbeth Ted Manier 
Banquo Joe Zanies 
Lady Macbeth Maureen Farley 
Porter Michael Grant 
Macduff Duane DIFranco 
Old Man Tom Booker 
Fleance Kevin Orpurt 
Seyton Elle Kerrigan 
First Murderer Mike Murphy 
nd Murderer Joseph Keller 
Lady Macduff K. Lynn Berry 
Doctor Martin Tracey 
Nurse Robin Dvorak 
Mentelth Kevin Kennedy 
Caithness Sean Evers 
Old Slward David Scheidler Young Slward Jack L. Langen­berg 
"Macbeth" opens April 29 In Washington Hall and runs through May ~­

The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 10 
'Dwightmare' begins for Mets as starters shelled in Fla. 
Associated Press Mitchell, who will more runs, including five home runs. two days earlier had indicated playoffs and World Series, at 
likely open for AAA Tidewater, That came a day after during batting practice that he 0-3 in their first three exhibition 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -allowed one .run in three in­Dwight Gooden allowed nine had regained the old hop on his games. Fernandez and By the looks of their first three nings against Toronto Monday, runs to St. Louis in a first inning fastball. Gooden, who were a combined exhibition games, the opening a brilliant performance com­capped by Terry Pendleton's 33-12 last season, had allowed day pitcher for the world cham­pared to his predecessor, Sid grand slam. It was the first That left the team that won a .545 opposition batting pion New York York Mets Fernandez, who in the first grand slam every allowed 108 games in the 1986 regular average and had an ERA of might have to be John Mitchell. three innings surrendered 11 anywhere by Gooden, who just season and eight more in the 23.40 in five innings. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Wordprocessing-Typing 272·8827 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 2n-7406 
PRO-TYPE Quellty work, word proceaalng IVIIIIblltty, reeaoneble $. 277-5833. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-7009. 
Wordprocenlng 2n-a131 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL DROP EARRING SONMEWHERE BETWEEN FARLEY AND CUSHING ... GREAT SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL HEATHER £3878. 
LOST: EEL-SKIN WALLET! Probably lost In the engineering auditorium or at the S.dlnlng hall on Sat., the 21st of February. If found please contact John Eustermann at 1066. Please keep trying to get ahold of me, andtlr leave a mes­sage W'phone £1 I really need the wallet! 
LOST: the phone £ of the girl named Suzie (Susan) who possibly found John Eustermann's WALLET! Please call me beck! I've tried to contact you but to no avalil I need the wallet desperately!! call 283-1 066, or stop by room 203 Alumni Hall. You'll make my day. 
LOST: AIRLINE TICKETS ON EAST AN· GELA BLVD. ON 3'3 AT APPROX. 8:00 
A.M. PLEASE CALL 232·9835 OR 283· 28n (LEAVE A MESSAGE). THANKSII 
LOST: MAROON WALLET WI BLACK STRIPES AND VELCRO FLAP. LOST AT CAMPUS VIEW APARTMANTS. MARCH 2. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KURT AT £3289 OR COME TO 235 KEENAN. $10,000 REWARDJII 
FOUND: Pair of glasses between PW and Flenner on way to 02. Call 283-1242. 
LOST!!: A VERY expensive pelr of Ray· Ban Wayfarers. Could be anywhere on campus, but probably at the Carreer· Placement office. Please be honest and return themllll Call Staph at 3499 or Lindsay at 3760. 
LOST LOST LOST KEYS KEYS KEYS at Lyons B-Ball courts week of March 2 EPCOT CENTER key ring with 3 keys . .. please call 283·2584 or 283-2588 or 283-2583 ... THANX, Soott. 
HELP ME SURVIVE MIDTERMS IIIII H was a sunny Friday close to Springbreak (and midterms) When some­body just decides to take my beg...AND I NEED ITIIIIIJIIIII saw it for the last time at South Dining Hall ( March 6 ) at 11 
a.m. ft Ia light blue and contains Jap, philo, math and French notes which are more than important. So, be good and call Carmen(272-8617) p.s. Does reward sound good? Then bring It fasterllll 
FOUND: 3 keys on brass NO key ring. Found Fri 3il outside O"Shag. Call Karen x2839 to claim. 
FOUND WOMAN'S GOLD WATCH WATCH F'OUND ON TRAIL AROUND ST.JOE'S LAKE. CALL STEVE, 1157. 
LOST: Gold NO keyring W' keys for Am. 236. Hfound, please call-.1725 orx4159 
LOST: HELP I I lost my gold Pulsar watch at the Happening House on Friday night. It has an octengular face. if you found It PLEASE call me at 284-4092. 
lost one 1920's gold and cultured pearl clip on earring on saturday on the side­walk by the grotto. please call annette 284-4372. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN BRACELET. IF F'OUND CALL 2905 
still haven't found my army green BANANA REPUBLIC SHOULDER BAGI I last saw It In the Freshman studio on the fourth floor of the Architecture Build­ing. H you have any info albout this delin· quent bag. give Mike a call at 2098. Thanks.... 
LOST: WOMAN'S GOLD SEIKO WATCH ON 3il SOMETIME AFTER 
11:30 PM CALL MARGARET X1293 
LOST: IRISH LEPRECHAUN KEYC­HAIN £409 KEY8-CALL X3604 OR X4111 

FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287·6389 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 255-36841.!88-0955 
Available for SUMMER & FALL 4BR HOUSE IN SAFE AREA 440.00MON. SEMI-FURNISHED, CALL 288-7276. 
WANTED 
TYPISTS -$500 weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 
GOVERNMENT JOBSI Now hiring in your area, both skilled and unskilled. For list of jobs and application, Call (615) 383-2627 Ext J316. 
I NEED RIDES T()FROM MIDWAY AIR­PORT I need to arrive at Midway by 9:30 pm on F'ri. Mar. 13 and I need a ride beck to NO from Midway on Mon. Mar. 23. !could leave the airport anytime after 6:00 am. CALL PAUL £2287. 
CAMPUS PAINTERS Ltd. NOW HIRING NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR SUMMER HOUSEPAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUBURBS. CALL TO AR­RANGE AN INTERVIEW 312-251-0151. MAILING ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL STREET--EVANSTON, II. 60201 
2 people need a ride to N.J. on Friday. Will help pay expenses call Marilyn at 2240 · 
................................................................ 
ROUND TRIP TJX SO. BEND-DAYTON -FT. LAUD. 250 OR BEST CALL CHIP 1748 
SHOW ME 

THE WAY TO OLD ST. LOUIE! 
Need a ride to St. louis for Spring Break. 
Can leave anytime Friday. Will share ex· 
penses. Call Laura at X3722. 
HELP ME, HELP ME, HELP ME, HELP 
MElli 

I need a ride to Brookville, IN. if you are on your way to CINCINNATI or that GEN­ERAL DIRECTION, give me a call at X3722. Ask for Melissa. Thanxilllll 
RIDE NEEDED 
FOR2 
MARCH 13 
TO 

ROANOKE, VA OR 
KNOXVILLE. TN AREA 
CALL: MATT-4793 OR JEFF-3481 
HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO N.J. FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL TIM AT 1054. 
NEEO RIDE TOFROM OC FOR BREAK CALL HELEN 287·0531 AFTER SPM 
Ride needed to Chicago or Northwest suburbs on Friday, March 13 afternoon. Cali Fran £4404 or Cindy £4229. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for spring break. Can leave anytime.Cali Pat at 3188. 
WANTED: COMPETENT STUDENT WHO IS IN TO FILMING AND VIDEO, TO CLEAN AND SPLICE OLD 8 AND 16 MOVIE FILMS AND PUT ON VIDEO TAPE. GOOD PAY, PHONE: GINA MANION, 272-3097 
Need a ride to Green Bay for break. Will share expenses. Please call Mary 2905. 
TAKE ME to IOWA tor break. Cali Anita smc4092 
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH OR EXIT 6 OF PENN. TURNPIKE FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL SUSIE £4205 
Ever heard of OKLAHOMA? Well, that's where I'm from and I need a ride home for spring break (like to Tulsa). I'm a good deal -I'll pey ALL GAS and DRIVER'S MEALS I Please call 2098 if for some rea­son you're headed that way. 
Need ride to Green Bay for Break. Call Mike, 234-4538. 
L FORSALE 
2 one-way tix Chicago to NY 18 May 1987 $75 ea call Staph ln-8241 
Compect Disk Player for sale. Audiophile quality NAKAMICH! OMS-7. Program­mable. Remote. Lists for $1 ,295.00 but will sell tor $600.00. Call evenings before 10 pm at 277-5912 or days at 239-7133. 
$250. worth of TWA flight vouchers for sale. $200. Call 233-6262. 
HELP! 1 ROUND TRIP PLANE TICKET TO DENVER OR ASPEN, COLORAOO. FOR SPRING BREAK $95 CALL LUIS 1550 
for sale: Toshiba stereo system $30. 284­4092 
6' TILED BAR, 4 STOOLS, EZ CHAIR 
Tom 234-7325 

GUITAR for sale: Fender acoustic F­260S, steel string. 1 year old. Excellent condition. Pries negotiable. Cali Brian 287-3560 after 11 :00 pm. (Original pur­chase price $350). 
AIRLINE TICKET 
CHICAGO-SYRACUSE-CHICAGO 
4116 6:30pm 
4120 3:00pm 

$118 or BEST OFFER 
(312)973-7235(eve) 
(312)750-5126(day) 
TICKETS 
GRAD TIX NEEDED, if you are planning on ordering less than four tlx call Rich at 3336 
ONE WAY TICKET TO SEATTLE, WASH. MARCH 18.$138. VALUE. BEST OFFER. MESSAGE PHONE 287-2191. 
2 HUEY LEWIS TIX FOR SALE. 5TH ROW CENTER. FLOOR. CALL OOREEN 284-5453 
PERSONALS 
AN ODE TO A RANDOM FEW FAMOUS LAST WORDS BETTY-"! am not spazzingi"-"Nothin', What are you doin'?l" COLLEEN·"I'm not drinking tonitel'" & "I'm getting up at 8." ELLEN-"1'11 race you." JANEL-"I'm going to Howard .. .l'll see you tonltel" LISA-"I,m giving up drinking!'" MIMI-'"I'm going to the library for break!" & "What DID I do last night?!" TREE-"Oh my God-there's a worm In my food, you guys!!" SANDY-"! AM going to studytonitel"&"l'li only be on the phone for a a minute!!" HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S DAY!! FROM A CONTIENTIOUS ITALIAN OBJECTOR. 
LOVE VA, Y8;V.r ROOMIES 
Jack 
Carolyn 
Mindy (GOOD LUCK) 
Advertising Design 
Fred 
Catherine 
Joen 
Peter 
Sharon 
Anne 
Maura 
Molly 
Megan 
David 
Frances 
Mike (GOOD LUCK) 
And an EXTRA SPECIAL SINCERE 
THANK YOU to: 
Beth and Mary Carol The department never would have made It without all of you ... Anne. 
John Darling (aka Pudge Ball) You know best how "Catholic guys fake it." You are the one that prompted me to say that. Explain that to the rest of the gins on cammpus. 
Love and Kisses 

To Craig, Terry and Kevin Redman is for WIMPS, Female bonding RULESJJ Love: Michelle and Laura 
Love, The gang from Fisherman's Wharfill 
............;:c;·-..:i:~:·;:;v-·;;R"ieN"iisi?i··········· 
HAVE A GREAT SPRING! HAPPY ST. PATRICKS'S DAYI KARl, MT, TRISH, PATTY, CHRIS, MB, KEGS & BARB CYNTHIA·WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A BLAST ... H.H. WILL NEVER BE THE SAME! LOVE,GLO 
................................................................ 
STOPII SHE'S BOR!NGII SHE'S "EDITH!" SHE'S "H.J.I" SHE'S 20 ... YESTERDAYI HAPPY 8-0AY KAREN HANDLOSERIII 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 806 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or leaH a car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing available for all US •tatn. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 

Thank you St. Jude for your help­Thank you St. Jude for your help­Thank you St. Jude for your help-
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS STARTING NOW! CALL 272-4135. 
ITS NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL 272-4135. 
HE DID NOT HAVE A NAME F'OR HIS AROUSAL. SO HE CALLED IT ROLLO. 
DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH 
Need GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at 2687. 
Desperately need one graduation ticket. Need money? Spring Break is coming next weeki Call 2890. 
Skip's mind, Aaron's body, Steve's paycheck, THE ULTIMATE MANIII 
LOVE SEX AND THE IRS 

WILL LESLIE COME OUT OF HIS CLOSET? WILL KATE TELL JOHN ABOUT LESUE? WILL JOHN'S MOM KNOCK OFF THE BOOZJN'? FIND OUT TONIGHT! ROUND UP YOUR FRIENDS AND COME SEE LOVE, SEX, AND THE IRS MARCH II, 10, 11 WASHINGTON HALL, 8:00 PM. 
Classy Quotes "What I need Is a really good beng job (haircut)." "She looks like a dog In mid­drool: "Give me that quarter back." "Arghhhhhhhh,' 
Tess baby 

CLEVELANDERS: Need ride to Cleveland for break. Prefer to leave Friday afternoon. Contact Jim, 283--1384. 
I nlled a ride to NYC Will pay andtlr drive Call Dan X2329 
I'm a DRUID He's a DRUID She's a DRUID They're ail DRUIDS 

Wouldn't you like to be a DRUID too? 
(You do realize why we're having all this wonderful springlike weather so eariy in the season, don'l you?) 
This spring Is being brought to you by 
THE NOTRE DAME DRUID SOCIETY 
Happy belated ~1st: Bubbles, Buns, Tootle, Lulu, and Heat­her!! Love Kittles 
MIKE MCCARTHY, XOXO, FRANK, TRISH, MOM, KATHY, MOLLY, KATHY, RAF, LYONS GIRLS LITTLE GUY AND THE REST OF THE GANG, THANI: YOU VERY MUCH FOR MAKING MY 21st B­DAY THE "BEST DAY OF MY WHOLE LIFE". SORRY THAT I RETAINED MY DINNER BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN I'M NOT GOING TO BE HUNTING FOR EACH ONE OF YOU ON YOUR UP­COMING B-DAYS. THANKS AGAIN! THERE ISN'T A PERSON ALIVE WHO HAS A BETTER BUNCH OF FRIENDS. 
RETURN PLANE TIX FOR SALE Phllly to SB, 323 Call Karen x2839 $ Negoti­able 
Broeden your perapectlvn with 1 1111jor or HCOnd 1111jor In theology. Come end dlacun the detlll1 with E. Oorekl. 
340 O'Sheughneny. 
prum ... prum ... prum ... PRUMI? Jill S, 
Friday night was so much fun. Have a terrific 8-Day! Love,"skip"ll 
SWEETNESS-Some are going to Florida, others to Texas, but some of us know that there is plenty of "sunshine" in South Bend. See you In THE HALLWAY. P.S. Anything I might add can be found between the lions. 
SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL TUX RENTAL TUX RERNTAL TUX RENTAL TUX ANTAL TUX RENTAL TUX RENTAL HEY GUYS, HAVE YOU RENTED THAT TUX YET? If not go to GILBERTS, University Park Mall or Downtown THIS WEEKI Special price$36. SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR F'ORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL 
LONELY SAILOR NEEDS SOME MAIL. CURRENTLY ON WORLD CRUISE. WILL CORRESPOND IMMEDIATELY: STEVE BARRAZA. VAW-112, F.P.O. SAN FRANCISCO 96601-1>400 
B.J. (BUCKWHEAT, STUDMUFFIN, DUDE) THIS IS JUST AN EXPERIMENT SO HAVE A GREAT ST. PAT'S DAY AND A FUN SPRING BREAK. SEE YOU ON THE 23RD. THE GREEN EYED SNOB 
P.S. IF BY SOME WAY OFF CHANCE 
ONE OR TWO YEARS? HOW ABOUT THREE? 0000 LA LAI 
HELP! NEED RIDE TO NYC OR ANYWHERE CLOSE. CAN LEAVE: 3­12, 4pm. CALL ANN 284-4339 
NEED RIDE BACK TO SOUTH BEND FROM D.C. CALL ANN 284-4339 $$$ 
To the staff, friends, Fr. Grit., mom & dad -1 say thank you for helping make my term a wonderful experience JOE 

All SMC FliGHT TO LIFE MEMBERS: Yearbook Picture will be taken at 5:00, Wed. In Haggar. We would like as many members there as possible. Please come I Call 4096 H you have any ques­tions. 
TIE-DYE SHIRTS! GET YOUR TIE-DYE SHIRTS FOR SPRING BREAK. 284­5343. 
I bought two plane tickets,CHICAGO­HARTFORD,SYRACUSE-CHICAGO.I no longer need them. II you would like to buy one,call Mike 3121. 
TO THE MEN OF MORRISSEY 310 "YOU ARE GOOD LOOKING GUYS" ... AND LOTS OF FUN. TOO THANKS FOR A MARVELOUS TIME COME VISIT ME IN TEMPE SOME­TIME ... FOR YOU. FITZ, THATS A GIVEN. 
TWO FASCINATING GUYS need rldea to O'Here Thurlldey llf!Mivenlng. Will share cost. Call Doug or Mike x3402. 
TRIPP BALTZ, the last of the great "nuked editors." A better team of news editors will never be found. And news meetings will never be the same. Good luck next year. 
-the other nuked editor 
.........................................................;...... 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS Yipesl Ohhhh raspberries. Can we say that? 

SALLY BROWNLEE: HAPPY 21ST! i~N'T THAT SPECIAL? MARY C. 
HEY BARB TULLI Where's my personal? BRIAN The WRAPER 
What is 194? Does anyone know? 

TARA--"This is the time to remember, cause It will not last forever." Times are gonna change, but you'll always be near in our hearts. We love ya (even overseas)-Your Jr.Yr.Roomles 
See NO WIN In ChariotteiRT alrtlx for saieiCall 3194 
Mike Sheady:You are forgiven.Not many people have knocked on my closet dooriJudy 
The president of Harvard?? What a dis­appointment! It's like admitting that Har­vard is better than usl Even if they are better In some ways. we don't have to tell the world. I would rather have Father Ted as the main speaker. But ask me If I'm surprised that I'm disappointed. In my four years here I have been disappointed In more ways than I could possibly list. So why not end on a disappointing note!! 
Attention! Attenlionl Thursday is Dan "Peenie" Hayden's 18th birthday. Calf 4643 and grant him much success with pishke's or come by 15 Holy Cross and help him clean up his room. As a bonus, he may teach you his wail­banging style of wrestling. Anyway, Dan. we love you(r), BIG PEENJEI Love-Miki, Blake, Slug, Tom and The San's. 
Blake Schomas and Dan Hayden will soon be trapped by the omnipotent penny monsters from the Quad Squad. 
Happy Birthday Clark-oh,l mean Tom Shew Keep your chin up-1'11 be thinking of you--i.L.Y. 
Janina Robinson Not drunk is she who from the floor Can rise alone, and still drink more: But drunk is she who prostrate lies, Without the power to drink or rise. HAPPY 20thl 
Thanks, Joe 
To my BIRTHDAY BOY 
Have a bell... but not a high belli 
Have a blall... but don't get blasted! 
Forever yours, 
Motherly Brie 
HUCK 
Happy 21st Birthday, Sweetheart! 
Wrth Extra special love on your Extra spe­
cial day, 
BRIE 
No more ICHIBAN for you, Fartlel 
Brie is free to swim in the sea 
but she can't have fun 
In the burning hot sun 
without her hun I 
I'll mlu you, HUCK! 
A hug and a kiss from a Daytona beach 
fish. 
BRIE, your chick of the sea 
Tomorrow is Bill's Birthday, but Bill's Mom can't make it. Make Bill's Mom happy. Wish BILL LYTLE I Heppy 22nd. 
my little brother michael I love you so much thanks for ali your •weet qualities, I'm very proud of you. suz 
TOMORROW Thurlldey, Merch 12th DUKE'S BISTRO In the georgetown plan) Lazy Boy end the Swivel Rocker• with Cube and the Fly1hm Csta 50 cent drelta, 2.50 pltchera 
JUNIOR CLASS SKIERS The Saga Con· tinues ...... Jeff: Get out of Katie's bedl Tho World Record Traln ... 21 skiers! Din­ner mints!? I Breaklastl?l Fernando: your triple flip got a 12.5 from the Russian judge. Ernie and AI: do you have twins? We can all take one big shower together. Oh my, even Kathleen laughed! Round pretzels in Jean's bedl Burger King crowns and balloons! Coma: Let us see your pole. Oops, It feii!Give me my usual. Brian eats mud. Jan eats bark. Chunk just eats. Brian show us that "good" an­gle I Thanks to King Lea and Crash. Fi­nally, onca again, where were you when the lights went out? Get out pictures developed soon. Picture exchange after break. More info soon. If you miased the Junior Claas Ski Trip: same time, next year-aSanior Class Heiocopter Skiing-­don't miss IIIII 
Jill Somehow, you tumed all my plans around. I don't quite know What exactly it is that I'm feeling, but I know that I want rt to continue. Thank you for giving me something to look forward to each day. Yes, I know I'll mias you over break, but I hope we can be together when we return. Have a GREAT birthday, sorry I couldn't be there. Love always Mike 
To the No. 1 priority in my l~e I'm available for business now Murph 
Shirley "What you are is not what you say or What you believe, n's What you do." 
Thank you for being there. 
Joe 
Attention ali ADVERTISING TYPES: Advertising Sales 
Jen 
Key 
Brlgld 


-·~-·.__--------~---~­
The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 11 
,•••.•..••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••...... 
There's a reason they call us The Fighting Irish 


We're fighting with you in spirit and in prayer 
The Law School 
The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 12 

Irish sabremen Geoff Rossi (right) is a key cing team's title at the NCAA Fencing Cham­player in Irish hopes to defend the men's fen-pionships next week at the ACC. 
Golfers tee off season in Orlando 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO Sports Writer 
With spring just around the corner, the Notre Dame golf team took advantage of last weekend's warm weather to prepare for their trip down to Orlando, Fla., during break. The Irish will see their first ac­tion since the fall when they join 12 other schools at the Uni­versity of Central Florida for a three-day, 54-hole tournament. 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan, in his 14th season as the headman, is very optimistic about the up­coming spring season. 
"We had a super fall season, and in the past that has usually been followed by a good spring outing," remarked O'Sullivan. 
The Irish compiled a 29-3 slate over the fall, and the team average was just below a 76. In addition, the club garnered two first-place victories and one second-place finish. O'Sullivan feels that his squad needs around a 75-average to be con­sidered a good team. 
While in Orlando, the team will shoot two practice rounds before beginning play on March 18th. . Among the entrants, other Midwest schools participating include Purdue, Bradley, N. Illinois, Wisconsin, as well as several Florida schools. The tourna­ment will be held on three sep­arate championship courses (Rio Pinar C.C, Tuscawillo C.C., and Orange Tree C.C.). 
O'Sullivan's reasons for a successful campaign can be counted on one hand. His five starters, only one a senior, have O'Sullivan convinced that this is not a rebuilding year, but a continuation of last year's efforts. Despite losing four seniors from a year ago, the coach feels that the current roster can get the job done. 

"Our captain, senior Chris Bona," said O'Sullivan, is my number-one guy, because his leadership on and off the course is valid and proven." 
Following Bona is sopho­more Pa,t Mohan, who came to the forefront last fall after win­ning the Notre Dame Open with a 73-average. O'Sullivan says that Mohan has the skill and potential to be an excellent gol­fer. 
Sophomore Doug Giorgo, who was the only freshman to start last season, is third on the roster. Giorgio was the second­best fall performer, averaging around 75. Junior Dick Connel­ly, with two years of varsity ex­perience on the links, is ex­pected to help Irish hopes. Connelly suffered from a bad wrist last fall that kept him out of two events. When he did see action, O'Sullivan called his play (75-average) inspiring. 
"Dick's absence probably made a difference in how our team finished overall in those tournaments," said O'Sullivan. 
The last, but certainly not least, piece of the puzzle is none other than John Connelly, who­O'Sullivan termed as the fresh­man sensation. Connelly is the only freshman starting on the club, and brings a 76-average from the Fall. 
Once the Irish return from their Florida trip, the next scheduled stop will take them to Richmond, Ky. (E. Ken­tucky Univ.) on the weekend of March 27-29. 
Does Karen Jones turn 22 o day... OR NO? 
K.J., I don't want you to drink out of those little glasses. 
WOW, Mom. You're ff/LARIOUS! 
Like mother, daughter 

Student Activities Board presents 
a lecture and reception with 
Sen. John Tower Chairman of ''The Tower Commission'' Investigator of the Iran-Contra Arms Deal 
Wednesday, Aprill 8:00pm 

Fencers 
continued/rom page 16 
"The first day will be the key day for us, because that's when the seeding will take place. If the girls get through the first couple of teams and relax, then they'll be ready to compete for first place." 
Sullivan is wary of the atten­tion that she will be getting as the defending champion. 
"I'm a little nervous about it, but I'm not hysterical about the tournament," said the junior two-time all-American. "I'd really like to win it again. I've been doing a lot better this year, and my record doesn't show how I'm fencing." 
The men will be defending their team championship but will have to overcome a host of talented teams to reclaim the title. Columbia will be the team to beat in the tournament, fueled by sabremen Robert Cottingham and Chris Reohr, 
and  foilists  Mark  Kent  and  
William Mirdel.  
"Columbia  has  to  be  the  

odds-on favorite this year," said DeCicco. They have more people returning from last year than any team ever, possibly with the exception of Penn. 
"But we're not just going to let them win the national cham­pionship and take it away from the rest of us. I think that with Kevin (Stoutermire) and Jeff (Rossi) , the results of the first day will be very indicative of what goes on in the tourna­ment." 
The Irish have Rossi and Stoutermire in the sabre, Tim Vaughn and Todd Griffee in the epee, and Yehuda Kovacs and Charles Higgs-Coulthard in the foil. 
And as it has been all year, the success of the team rests squarely on the shoulders of the "weak-link" epeeists. But Vaughn and Griffee are ready. 
"I've been a good fencer who's been stuck in a mediocre plateau," said Griffee. "I need to go out there and fence rather than fight the man. If I fight the man, I wind up losing my concentration. But I want this one bad." 
Vaughn, who is practicing with tendonitis in his right foot, is still up for the meet. 
"My foot could fall off and I'd still fence next weekend," said the senior from North An­dover, MA. IRISH ITEMS Charles Higgs­Coulthard collected points in a circuit event for the World Uni­versity games by finishing 21st in Los Angeles. Higgs­Coulthard missed the Great Lakes Championships to attend the meet ... Senior Cindy Weeks will be the alternate women's competitor at the NCAA's... Men's fencing will begin at 9 a.m. each day in the North Dome of the ACC. Wo­men's team competition begins at 2 p.m. next Thursday and Friday. 
T h cz C ~a r t?.l.... k T"'P• 
SAB RECORD STORE 
PAl rfl 

Spr'ing Br' eak! 
Need fl'\:~')it::-'? 1'\o~ ~~eUe1 only $6..~a 
Hours: 11 :30 -5:00 Basement of Lafortune 
For the 1987 Stanford SllJIIIIIel" Session laUetln and application, mall this coupon to Stanford SllJIIIIIel" Session, Building 10, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305. 
STANFORD SUMMER 
0.. 
t::i 


----~--~-­ 
~  
The Observer  Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 13  

Sports Briefs 
The ND rowing club will hold a meeting tonight at 8:30 at room 123 Ntewland to finalize plans for the trip to Texas. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will take place after spring break. -The Observer 
Thejuniorclasswarm-uptoBookstoreBasketball XVI reminds teams to check the board for playing times this week. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold practice today and tomorrow at 4 p.m. at the Rockne Pool. All members are encouraged to attend. For more information contact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
Applications are now being accepted for the posi­tions of NVA aerobic instructor for 1987-88. Forms may be picked up at the NVA office in the ACC. Deadline is March 31. For more information call 239-6100. -The Obser­ver 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 

Ohio State's Dennis Hopson was named the AP Player of the Year in the Big Ten yesterday. Former Buckeye Herb Williams congratulates Hopson for breaking his OSU career scoring record last week. 

Toomey 
continued/rom page /6 
truth books do it Bobby Knight. 
The fact is, Louisville has done little this entire season to make anyone believe it is a tournament-caliber team. 
Crum's tantrum may have a positive effect on the Irish. The surprising success of this year's team has people won­dering what the team will ac­complish next, rather than waiting for it to do what is ex­pected of them. We all remem­ber how that attitude ended last season. 
While Irish head coach Dig­ger Phelps and his staff scramble to look at Blue Raider footage, the environment is more to their liking. The tur­moil surrounding Middle Ten­nessee's inclusion in the tourn­ament takes the spotlight off the Irish, and will allow them to concentrate on playing the way they have shown they are capable of. 
Though the Irish find quite a task facing them in their region, they have shown the ability to play with anyone. Whether the Thundering Herd of Marshall, or the Horned Frogs of TCU greet them, or the mighty Tar Heels or even the Boilermakers of Purdue, the Irish have a shot to be the underdog, planning its assault from the shadows, throughout the tournament, whether it is because they are a lower seed, or have a less-bizarre nick­name. 
And if the results of this rags­to-riches season are any indi­cation, that's just where they would prefer to be. 
Tharics to you... it works... for ALL OFUS 
Unltedwa
• 

~-----------.--~-------------------------------------~----------~----~--------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 14 
East Coast swing to provide challenge for lacrosse team 
By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 
Look out lax lovers, the Irish are back. 
The 1987 Notre Dame lacrosse team, led by senior co­captains Dave O'Neill and Wally Stack, is ready to defend its Great Lakes Lacrosse Con­ference co-championship, but the road looks rocky. 
Head Coach Rich O'Leary's squad lost over fifty percent of its goal production to gradua­tion, but he remains optimistic about the coming year. 
"Losing players like Tom Grote and Joe Franklin 

Hilton Head next stop for women's tennis 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team takes a working vacation of sorts as it travels to Hilton Head, S.C., for spring break. The Irish will face several tough opponents in this sunny vacation attraction as they meet Louisville, Rutgers, Arkansas, Tennessee, and Auburn. 
With the exception of Louis­ville, the Irish will be facing these teams for the first time. Head Coach Michele Gelfman isn't quite sure what to expect in terms of competition, but 
Thanks to this year's Observer General Board 

Eric  
Anne  
Tripp  
f  Margie Mark P.  
Mary 
f  Mark W.  
Dennis  

Good Luck to Kevin and Mark and the new 1987-88 General Board! 
Thanks, Joe and Chris 


1987 Notre Dame Annual Fund Spring Phone-a-thon 
Notre Dame Student Volunteer Workers Needed March 24, 25, 26, 30, 31 April 1, 6, 7, 8 
6: 00 -9: 30 each evening 
You're an automatic winner! For one evening's work you earn: 
• 
a stipend for your dorm or favorite organization 

• 
a free long distance phone call home or to a friend anywhere in the U.S. 

• 
the chance to win one of several gift certificates awarded each night e a complimentary 1987 Phone-a-thon T-shirt e and more ... 


For more information call 239-5340 between 9 am -4:30 pm Jim Chris Mary Carol Shawn Melissa Mark M. Alex Frank 
definitely hurts," noted O'Leary, "but it just means that everyone has to work that much harder. We will have no stars this year. It will have to be a total team effort." 
The rebuilt attack unit of the Irish, the stomping grounds last year of both Grote and Franklin, will have to deliver for the team to succeed. Taking over will be senior Jim Shields, last year's third leading scorer, and sophomore John Olmstead. 
"Shields and Olmstead, along with Jeff Shay and John McLachlan, should provide the backbone of our attack unit," continued O'Leary. "I have 
that doesn't affect her own team's expectations. 
"The team is striving for a 5-0 record," said Gelfman. "In singles, we're looking to play an aggressive serve-and-volley game, and the doubles teams are what will pull us through the tough matches." 
The doubles tandems that Gelfman is counting on feature co-captain Michelle Dasso and Alice Lohrer at the number-one spot, Stephanie Tolstedt and Natalie Illig slated second and co-captain Tammy Schmidt and Resa Kelly comprising the third team. 
"The emphasis is on winning as a team," said Assistant Coach Steve Simone. "If one of the players isn't in a match, she's on the sidelines cheering for her teammate to win. 
"We're finding out that we've got the talent to beat some good teams. Just because a team is stronger than us doesn't mean we can't beat them. We're starting to think to ourselves, 'We're a good team too.' " 
Taking the courts for the Irish in singles action will be Dasso, followed by Tolstedt, Lohrer, Schmidt, Illig, and Kel­ly. 
confidence that they will get the job done." 
The Irish are stronger at the midfield position, where a wealth of players with experi­ence return. Heading the unit will be three-time monogram winner O'Neill and senior Kevin Cullinan. Also playing crucial roles will be juniors John Burtis, Tom Lanahan, Art Brady and John McNicholas, while sophomore John Flick­enger and freshman Mike Quigley will contend for playing time. 
"We have a great deal of depth at midfield," stated O'Leary. "We hope to get more scoring from the midfield spots to help out the attack. Our scoring will be much more balanced because we are employing more of a team con­cept." 
If a strong defense indicates a good team, then the Irish should be awesome. The defense, led by Stack and fel­low seniors Jim Fallon and Dick Milone, (a total of eight monograms between them), will be the strongest in years. Add to that nucleus talented sophomores Brendan Cahill and Kevin O'Connor, and the future looks pretty stingy. 
"We have so much talent on defense that it allows us to spe­cialize in certain situations," O'Leary said. 
Who will be in goal remains a bit of a question mark for the Irish, as returning starter Matt McQuillan is currently academically ineligible. O'Leary is hopeful McQuillan will become eligible prior to the season, pending a grade change. If not, the duties will fall to freshman Jeff Glazier. 
The Irish open their season over break with a swing around the East Coast, playing Rad­ford, Washington & Lee and Villanova. 

Choose wedding andgraduation pieces ~ {rom ou_r unique stock ~ ~ or deszgn your own m 
CUSTOM DESIGN*DIAMONDS*GEMS*GOLDSMITH 
M 


We cater to weddings and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 


Attention Juniors 

Due to the overwhelming number of requests for Junior Parents' Weekend 1987 MUGS, the JPW Committee will be commissioning another order! Orders must be placed, with payment at time of order, by Friday, March 13. The mugs will only be !13.25 each. Place your name, addres!l number of mugs, and payment in an envelope and place under the JPW office door on the 2nd floor of LaFortune, or drop off in 718 P B. 
Surprise yourparents with a set ofmugs! 
Questions? Call Maureen at 283-4455. 



'JI['4(Jt~4t)L~------------------------------------------------------•W•e•dn.e.sd•a•y•'•M•a•rc•h•1•1,•1•00•7··-p-ag•e•1•5
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
I()W /VJ()(/{ 
MT!M!/~, 
IWP eJEf<C/5€. I 

Beer Nuts 
WHAT APAY. FIRST I MISS 
VANNA 8Y Z HIN(}(£5, TilE/'/ I FLVNK HY TfST, lVI() 7b TOP IT OFP, A fi.IO«()(){,IILY V/l.[ MEAL A( Tilt DINING HALL o 
Campus 
ALL WEEK: Registration for the Mock MCAT in the Pre-Professional Office. To register, see Mrs. Filbert before break. The Mock MCAT is scheduled for Satur­day April 4th. The cost of registration is $5.00 
11:30 a.m.-1 :00 p.m.: Economics Depart­ment Labor Workshop, "Plant Closings and Collective Bargaining in the Tire In­dustry," by Charles Jeszeck, Government Accounting Office, Washington, D.C. 131 Decio 12:10-1;00 p.m.: Closed meeting of Al­coholics Anonymus Holy Cross House 2:30-5:00 p.m.: Tax Assistance Program, Social Concerns coffee house 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse, Fullscreen Terminal Emulation, 108 Com­puting Center, limit 10, to register, call Betty 239-5604 4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Nuclear Reactions in Type I Supernovae," by Prof. Friedrich Tielemann, Harvard, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 7:00,9:30 & 12:00 p.m.: Movie, "Hustler", $1.50, Engineering Auditorium 7:30p.m.: Knights of the Immaculata film "The Shroud of Turin," 55 minutes, color, Montgomery Theatre student center 
8:00 p.m.: Play (comedy), "Love, Sex, and the I.R.S.", sponsored by St. Ed­ward's Hall Players, $1.50, Washington Hall 8:00p.m.: Latin American Film Series, "Missing", sponsored by SOLA, ODN, CSC, and Kellogg Institute, $1.50, Center for Social Concerns 8:00-9:15 p.m.: Mandatory organizational meeting, NDSMC 3rd Annual Charity Ball, Annapolis Room THURSDAY 
12: 15 p.m.: Dept. of Sociology Sixth Notre Dame Graduate Sociology Lecture, "The Distributive-Justice Force in Human Af­fairs: Theory and Method," by Guiller­mina Jasso, University of Minnesota, Min­neapolis, 131 Decio Hall 
''flf?. r!(fWK'5 
NI/W. 

HOW II/JOfJr fi((J& t£fA, 
@11TN& /..€5$, F!G5 lilY/?
roo WElt?!?. 
INt£17 

IWP 6Xctret~. ftATVI.liNCE 
:i0ffi£T1f!N6 
Pier"'/
I
/JIIf/C. 
WIIIIP!?YII 
1H!NK _71
I 
I 
Mark Williams 
AH L ON(MNI>/0
CAI1!RA OR. 
S6t€TJI/'N6 ? 

3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse, Ex­cel, 108 Computing Center, limit 10 to reg­ister call Betty 239-5604 4:15-5:30 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visit­ing Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, and the Program in Critical and Continental Thought Lecture, Theme: Hermeneutics and its Horizons, "Intellec­tual History and Critical Theory," by Prof. Dominick LaCapra, Dept. of His­tory, Cornell University 238 Galvin Life Sciences Center 7:30p.m.: Sandi Patti concert $10.50 and $9.50 ACC 8:00p.m.: Department of Music concert, Laura Klugherz, faculty violin recital, An­nenberg Auditorium 8:00p.m.: SMC Music Dept. Graduate ar­tists recital Series, Barrick Stees, SMC, Bassoon, Little Theatre FRIDAY 
12: 15-1:00 P.M.: Friday Forum at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns for Faculty and Staff. Theme: The Constitution and Higher Education, "Higher Education and Democracy," by Prof. Frederick Crosson, ND, 124 Center for Social Con­cerns, brown bag or soup and bread, $1, please call £5293 for soup-bread reserva­tions 3:30p.m.: Aeronautical-Mechanical Engi­neering Seminar, "Vortex Aerodynamics," by Dr. Greg Reynolds, Advanced Research Organization, 303 Cushing Hall 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Baked Ham Spirals With Italian Meat Sauce Seafood Newburg Over Linguini Grilled Bologna Sandwich 

The Daily Crossword 
The fake McCoys 
ACROSS 1 Indian prince 5 Inlet 8 Baby buggy 

12 Mild oath 13 Slavs 15 Gambling town 16 Sandwich 
(with 25A) 19 Crude boat 20 Large kangaroo 21 Fees 22 Kills flies 24 "-want for 
Christmas..." 25 See 16A 27 Bakery product 31 Wild goat 32 Poker hands 33 Mouths 34 Depend (on) 35 See 52A 36 Bachelor party 37 Founded: abbr. 38 Cancels 39 Detest 40 Sweet treats 42 Owl 44 "If-be 
treason ... " 45 A Marx 46 Moves about 48 Forsaken 49 Lament 52 Sandwich 
(with 35A) 55 Rarin' to go 56 Uncolned 
silver 57 Biting 58 Average 59 Moray 60 "1-man 
with ... " 
DOWN 1 Singer McEntire 2 Culture 
medium 3 Silversides 4 Bustle 5 Air. Dutch 6 Voice 7 Still 8 Boxing match 
of sorts 


<>1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
9 Actual 10 Jillian and 
Sothern 11 Up-to-date 13 Hades 14 Provisioner's 
place 17 Tidy 18 Fountain 
drinks 23 Ceraceous 24 Seed covers 25 Jaded 26 Fat 27 Summons 28 County fair 
event 29 Wrathful 30 Willing 32 Hides 35 Lawyers 36 Boutique 43 Caen's river 50 One 38 Indian 45 Residence 51 Icelandic poem 

statesman 46 Utah lily 52-de deux 41 Strong ale 47 N.M. commune 53 Something in Eng. 48 Publisher subsidiary 42 Writer Bret Henry 54 Ewe's mate 
,................................................ 
! SAB presents: ~ i 
f The Hustler ~?.
~1,~.. 
• 

+ oq~ :
+ Tonight and Thursday ~"" : 
: 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. ~q~~ + : $1.00 EG Aud. + 
.................................................. 
S~orts 

\ 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 

The World Wrestling Federation will conduct a live taping of its Saturday Night's Main Event at the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center, The Observer learned earlier this week. 
The NBC show, which periodically pre-empts Saturday Night Live, will be taped on April 28th and aired May 2nd. This marks the second time that the WWF has taped an event at the ACC. Last Nov. 19th, the WWF taped a card in front of over 12,000 people for its weekly syndicated show. 
March 29th, the ACC will have a closed-circuit link for WrestleMania III, the second time the ACC has done so. In the spring of 1985, Stepan Center sold out when it provided a closed-circuit showing of the first WrestleMania. 
According to William Datre of the WWF, all of the organizations top stars should be in at­tendance. As of late Tuesday, the official card had not been set. 
Wednesday, March 11, 1987-page 16 
WNDU to broadcast ND's first-round game 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
If you're not heading for Charlotte, N.C., or on your way to Florida, WNDU (channel16) announced Tuesday that it 
NCAA Tournament 
The Road to Bourbon Street 
would broadcast live Notre Dame's game against Middle Tennessee St. in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
ESP:r;.T had announced Sun­day that it also would air the game live, with . tipoff sched­uled for 2:37p.m. EST. 
If you are heading for Char­lotte and don't have tickets, be prepared to pay scalper's prices. The Charlotte Coliseum, which seats 11,666, is completely sold out, according to Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski. All of Notre Dame's allotment of 250 tickets were sold here, and Bobinski said Tuesday that the rest of the Coliseum seating was sold out as well. 
The Irish left for Charlotte early yesterday evening. They will practice at 1 p.m. today on the Coliseum floor. 
One of the big stories coming out of the Notre Dame Sports Information Department yes­terday was the wearing of the latest sports fashion state­ments, the fish tie. After Sports Information Intern Andy O'Brien wore the tie, which 


resembles a dead Muskie, to Notre Dame's victory over Wagner, Irish head coach Dig­ger Phelps wore the tie during his squad's defeat of Brooklyn College last Monday. 
The tie has since won two more games. South Bend Tribune basketball writer For­rest Miller wore it as the Irish downed Miami, and women's Assistant Coach Bill Fennely wore it as both his squad and the men's team took victories from Dayton. 
Now the tie, which can best be described as polyester, is in demand and is booked through­out the NCAA Tournament, Re­quests have also begun to come in for the football season. 
The moral of this fish tail is that as a big event gets closer, the hype and trivia increases daily. 
Women fencers hope to keep DeCicco's vow at NCAA's 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
Trying to predict what ex­actly is going to happen in next weekend's NCAA National Fencing Championships at the ACC is a lot like, well, taking a stab in the dark. 
But if you throw some of the class fencers from Notre Dame into a tournament of any kind, you can be pretty sure that something's going to happen. So far this season, that some­thing has been winning. 

The Irish will face the 'ul­timate test when the best of the collegiate ranks will be around from March 16 throught the 21st. The men will fence from the 16th to the 18th, while the women will take the strip from the 19th to the 21st. 
The women's team has a strong possibility of winning a national championship, and to fencing coach Mike DeCicco, bringing home a title for the women will be the fulfillment of a 16-year old promise. 
"I promised (Vice Presi­dent) Father (Edmund) Joyce, on the day he called me into his office and asked me if our wo­men were ready to be elevated to varsity status, that we would be ready whenever he wanted us to be ready," said DeCicco. 
"I made him a promise that if he made the women's fencing team the very first women's team on this campus that we'd win a national championship," continued DeCicco. "Well, we gave him individual champion last year--Molly Sullivan--who was the first women's cham­pion we'd ever had here at Notre Dame. Hopefully this year we can do it with the team. 
"If we can win it while Fa­ther Joyce is still our executive vice-president and the one who really started this whole thing and believed in us, it'll be an especially nice thing for us to do." 
The women are going into the tournament with defending NCAA Champion Molly Sul­livan, along with Janice Hynes, Anne Barreda, and Kristin Kralicek. The team will face stiff competition from Temple (whom the Irish defeated 9-7 earlier this season), Columbia and Yale in the tournament. 
"It won't be easy," said wo­men's head coach Yves Auriol. "But right now we're a solid, well-balanced team. We're working hard and have been fencing as a team. Kristin has some experience, but she should be pretty nervous. As a freshman, Anne Barreda will probably be nervous, too. 
see FENCERS, page 12 



Attention on Middle Tennessee State may help Irish 
The Notre Dame basketball team has been over­It seems that some prominent college basketball The Blue Raiders have posted an impressive shadowed this whole season. people, and Denny Crum in particular, don't think record, but it is true that Michigan is the lone "big­
A first-game shellacking against Western Ken­Middle Tennesse State warrants a bid in the tourn­gee" that graces their schedule. Louisville has a tucky and close wins against weaker teams left few ament. Of course, Crum has a team in mind that much different situation. The Cardinals play a toug­people considering the Irish a serious candidate for he feels is more deserving than the Blue Raiders, her schedule than most would care to face. How national prominence. and by some strange coincidence, it happens to be much should wins count compared to the quality of 
Even as the Irish began proving themselves game his own squad, the Louisville Cardinals. opponents? The key of the whole thing is to play in and game out, with upsets becoming the rule th~se big-time opponents and perform well against rather than the exception, they weren't exactly them. Louisville has accomplished only half that received with open arms. The pollsters gave Notre Rick task. Dame only token support in the polls. It is admirable to play the best college basketball 
Rletbrock
Finally, in the second-to-last week of the season, has to offer, but losing by lopsided scores to these the Irish could no longer be shunned and broke into Irish Items teams should not be commended. The Cardinals the rankings. They finished 18th in the final AP have lost to Kentucky by 34, Purdue by 15, Wash­Top-Twenty announced this week. The reason Crum, or Mr. Big, is so livid at the ington by 15, Syracuse by 25, and Memphis State 
The NCAA Tournament selection committee fi­selection of the Blue Raiders is that his Cardinals by 16 and 23. Those are not pretty numbers. nally gave the Irish some recognition, giving them have played a meat-grinder of a schedule and have Crum has even gone so far as to almost accuse the fifth seed in the tough East Regional, which can managed to post a respectable 18-14 mark. Middle the selection committee of favoritism, because Jim 
be interpreted as much of a curse as a blessing. Tennesse State, on the other hand, has spent the Delaney, commissioner of the Ohio Valley Confer­But now the Irish find themselves in the shadows season tangling with the not-so-notable Ohio Valley ence, is on the committee. Denny has too many again. And this time it is worse than at any other Conference members. The Blue Raiders finished problems on his own bench to be hurling accusations 
point in the season. with a 22-6 record and won the regular-season con­at the decision-makers. 
Notre Dame is not being mentioned nearly as ference championship, but they did not win the con­Unpleasant events can turn coaches into tyrants, much these days as is its first-round opponent, ference tournament. however. The selection committee has done that to Middle Tennessee State. Oh, the Irish are favored Because of this turn of events, Crum does not Crum. Bad officiating does it to most coaches, flying 
and everything, but the Blue Raiders are receiving believe the little guys deserve a bid as much as his placards do it to Dean Smith, and too-close-too-the­much more press. Why? Good Question. team does. 
see TOURNEY, page 13 




