
Snow rules -page 3 

VOL. XXI, NO. 72 MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Authorities net 200 in Lee's Ribs raid 
Hotel arson suspect leaps to his death from building 
( 

By TRIPP BALTZ News Editor 
A raid of Lee's Ribs con­ducted by three law-enforcement agencies Thursday night netted over 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
South Bend Police, Indiana State Police and Indiana State Excise Police made 13 arrests in the 11 p.m. raid, according to Lt. Richard Kilgore, public relations officer for South Bend Police. 
Kilgore said that police records show only 20 to 30 pa­trons in the bar were of legal age. 
The citations for being a minor in a tavern were the highest number ever delivered to students in one raid in South Bend history. 
The previous record bust was of The Goose's Egg more than seven years ago. The tavern was located at the corner of Notre Dame Ave. and Howard St., according to Capt. Patrick Cottrell, who led Thursday's raid on Lee's. 
Lee's Ribs, the site of a raid by three law­State excise police Sgt. Greg 
enforcement agencies Thursday night, which Deitchly also led the raid. Kil­
resulted in the highest number of citations ever gore said excise officers en-
The Observer I Jim Carroll 

delivered to students in a single raid in South Bend history. See related story at right. 
Associated Press 

SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico-A bartender at the Dupont Plaza hotel, who faced questioning about the fire there that killed 96 people, has killed himself by leaping from a building, police said Sunday. 
Julio Verges Gaetan, 45, 

Renovations, construction continue on several buDdings 
By JULIE PALAMARO Staff reporter 
Renovations continue on Lafortune Student Center, the Law School, and Sacred Heart 

Church,  with  work  on  new  
buildings also beginning.  
Lafortune  renovations  are  

just about finished, according to Don Dedrick, the director of Notre Dame's physical plant. "They are just working on some punch items," he said. "Those are things we have to tell the contractors to go back . and fix." All of Lafortune is now in use with the exception of some office space, and all work should be completed in a week or so, Dedrick added. 
Renovations on the Law School are also almost com­pleted, said Dedrick. A little work needs to be done on the exterior, which will take about two weeks, and the moot court-jumped from the ninth floor of a building in the Rio Piedras suburb Saturday, police said. 

El Mundo newspaper quoted his wife, Juanita, as saying he had been despondent since learning Friday that inves­tigators planned to question him this Tuesday. Two men, in­cluding a bar busboy, have 
room should be finished in an­other month. 
. Renovations on Sacred Heart are an ongoing project, however, and are not likely to be concluded in the near future, according to Dedrick. A new fire protection system is being installed, which requires the emplacement of sprinklers in the attic of the sanctuary and the crypt, and an alteration of the electrical system. Further­more, in addition to putting a new slate roof on the church and steeple, Dedrick's staff is examinihg the stained glass. "Our goal is to eventually take it out and restore it. Glass weathers like paint, and after a hundred years, it can use a little work," said Dedrick. 
Pasquerilla East and West have also just had air condi­tioning installed, and Washing-
see WORK, page 3 

been charged with arson in the more of him until police told New Year's Eve inferno, and her he was dead. investigators have said there Calls by The Associated may be additional arrests. Press to the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and the Bureau of 
Verges Gaetan left the house Alcohol, Tobacco and Saturday morning to buy bread Firearms, two agencies inves­for breakfast, his wife was tigating the fire, were not quoted as telling the newspa­returned Sunday. per, and she heard nothing Hotel maintenance man Hec-
Exxon funds Hesburgh Program 
By GREG LUCAS Staff Reporter 
A three year grant of $300,000 from the Exxon Education Foundation will be used to establish an inter­disciplinary academic pro­gram in public service. 
The new program is named the Hesburgh Pro­gram in Public Service to honor Father Theodore Res­burgh, University president, and his commitment to public service. 
"There will always be a need for public servants whose understanding of complex issues is informed by a keenly Catholic insight, and this gift will help our uni­versity to respond to it," Hesburgh said. 
"Exxon saw it as a way to honor the outgoing president of Notre Dame," said Nat­han Hatch, associate dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters, who headed the faculty committee that submitted the proposal to Exxon. "I'm flattered by the honor and pleased by the promise of this instance of the Exxon eludes 20 summer intern­ships, money to bring professionals on campus to interact with students, and a minor concentration in public service. 


"Students will be able to choose from a number of courses and one will have to take five courses to com­plete the concentration," Hatch s.aid. The program also calls for the creation of at least one entirely new course and modification of some already established courses, Hatch added. 

The interdisciplinary pro­gram, which will be run by a committee in the College of Arts and Letters and a· director to be named later, will be open to all students in any major. "We certainly aren't trying to make it restrictive," Hatch said. 
see EXXON, page 4 

tor EscudeFo Aponte, 35, and busboy Armando Jimenez Rivera, 29, were charged in federal court with arson and in San Juan District Court with first-degree murder, arson, destruction of property and conspiracy. Each faces a maximum penalty of life in prison if convicted. 
tered Lee's undercover before the raid. One police officer wore a Notre Dame football jacket. Officers issuing cita­tions referred to a Notre Dame-Saint Mary's telephone directory to check for names on the identification cards stu­dents presented. 
Arrested on charges of resist­ing law enforcement was Gale Lighthall, 31, of E. Howard St. 
Arrested on charges of van­dalism and minor in a tavern were Mark Runfola, 20, of Keenan Hall; William Griffin, 20, of Winnetka, IL.; and Daniel McBreen, 20, of Glen­view, IL. 
Arrested on charges of resist­ing law enforcement and minor in a tavern were Edwin Quinn, 19, of Keenan; David Kidder, 19, of Alumni; Joseph Suplick, 19, of Alumni; and Meghan Rafferty, 20, of Holy Cross, Saint Mary's. 
Also arrested for charges of resisting law enforcement and minor in a tavern were John Mikulak, 19, of Keenan; Laurin Dodd, 19, of Alumni; Kevin Kane, 20, of Holy Cross, Notre Dame; John Wichart, 19, of Alumni; and Mark Gibbs, 20, of Alumni. 
~-~---~---~ ~­
The Observer Monday, January 19, 1987-page 2 


In Brief 
Students Against Intelligent Nonterrestrials (SAINT) re­quested $4 million in funding from the University Of Maryland student government. The money was to develop a particle-beam weapon to fight aliens, plus $4,900 for a barbeque. The student government granted the new or­ganization only $1 --to buy matches. -The Observer 
An undercover police agent was exposed at a University of Utah residence hall by a group favoring the legalization of LSD and marijuana. "Students for Responsible Drug Use" identified the agent in 500 flyers distributed around Austin Hall. The agent had found little evidence of drug traffic in seven weeks of living in the dorm and had planned to leave in a few days anyway. -The Observer 
Syracuse University has given amnesty to fake I.D. holders. Allegedly students had the false identifications forged by an SU freshman. University officials offered not to punish anyone who turned in the cards by the end of the week. -The Observer 
The archbishop of the Roman Catholic Church in Nicaragua was robbed and threatened by two armed gun­men while in the Miami area on church business, police said Sunday. Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, archbishop of Managua, was at the home of a friend in Kendall on Saturday when two gunmen forced their way in, tied up the archbishop and six others in the house and robbed them, said Metro-Dade police spokeswoman Lucy Fitz. ­
Associated Press 

Of Interest 
An Engineering Book Exchange, sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council, will take place today and Tuesday. Students who wish to sell books should bring them today to Room 217, Cushing Hall between 1-4 p.m.; the sale will take place in the same place at the same times the next day. -The Observer 
The Isis Gallery will open its Spring 1987 schedule with an exhibition Jan. 19-30 of black-and-white photographs by Eva Enderlein, whose work has been exhibited throughout the United States and Europe. The Isis Gallery is located on the third floor of the Riley Hall of Art and Design. Gallery hours are 8:30-5:00 Monday-Friday, closed weekends. -The Observer 
"Feminist Criticism And the Literary Virtues of Re­Reading,'' a three-part series focusing on feminist literary criticism, begins this week in the library auditorium. In the first segment a joint lecture entitled ''The Mirror and the Vamp: Reflections on Feminist Criticism'' will be held by Sandra Gilbert, professor of English at Princeton Uni­versity, and Susan Gubar, professor of English at Indiana University, tonight at 7:30 p.m. Gilbert and Gubar will also lead a discussion Tuesday at 11:00 a.m. in the library auditorium lounge. -The Observer 

Weather 
There's snow place like home: A win­
... ....,
. . 

ter storm watch is in effect today with periods of heavy snowfall possible. Breezy with the high around 30. Chance of snow 70 percent. Snow diminishing to light snow tonight with the low in the lower to middle 20s and chance of snow dropping to 40 percent. Cloudy and cold Tuesday with the high in the middle 20s. 
l:he_--Obset:Ver­
De1ign EditM .. ... Melissa Warnke De.ign Auutant . . . ........ Chris Donnelly TJ1pe•elten...................... Shawn Sexton 
................................................ Mike Buc 
N.w• Editor............................ Jim Riley 
CopJI EdltOT .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... ... .. . Chris Julka Sport1 CopJI EditOT........ ....................................... Rick Rietbrock Viewpoint CI)JJJI EditOT ......................... . ......................................Brian Broderick 
Vtewpomt t&JIOW ................................ . 
Melinda Murphy Accent CI)JJJI EditOT .............................. . ................................... Caroline Gillespie T11put ..... ................. ...... .. .. . Colleen Foy ND Da11 Editor .............. Laurlne Megna SMC Day Editor .............................. . ................................ Theresa Harrington Ad De1ign.............. Mary Carol Creadon .. ......................................... Joan Wrappe Photographer ....................... Jim Carroll 

Tile Obaener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Obterver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile ot.ener is a member of Tile Aaodaled Pras. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Faust moves in new direction but hold.s onto his memories 
First, he pointed to a placque on the wall facing his desk. It was the seal of the University of Notre Dame. 
On his bookcase were a clutter of pictures, some of them taken at ND, along with a madonna and child statue and with a football figurine wearing a "Moeller" jersey. . 
The color scheme in the office was again blue 
and gold. But the rest of the odds and ends in 
the office of head football coach Gerry Faust 
had Akron U. written on them. 
The Akron Zips football team, coached by Faust in his first year at Akron, had compiled a 7-4 record. 
In December, the team was elevated to Divi­sion 1-A status, the level where the football giants play. The University of .Akron is new toil\ Division 1-A. Faust obviously is not. 
The new status allowed Akron to hire another 
coach and to grant 38 more scholarships. 
"Things are going well," said Faust. "We had 
a good year.'' The season wasn't disappointing, 
but losing the last two games of the season cost 
Akron the conference championship and a spot 
in the playoffs, Faust said. Many things are 
different at Akron. 
Faust admitted that there is a difference be­
tween the approach he took to discipline at 
Notre Dame and the approach he takes now at 
Akron. "I'm tougher on 'em here," said Faust. 
"I didn't start out tough at first (at Notre 
Dame). I thought they'd be mature at that 
level," said Faust. 
"I feel very comfortable now. Now I know what has to be done. Before, I had to feel my way." 
Another difference is the size of the operation­-it is small. Very small. The football office is in an upstairs corridor in the gynasium building. There is no large lounge area lined with pictures of past football greats. 
Faust has as many coaches as he had at Notre Dame, but he has only one secretary (instead of five) to help him handle the business of run­ning a football team. 
The stadium is different--it's not filled as Notre Dames's always was. To fill it up, Faust has to promote the team constantly. And he gets plenty of chances because of his celebrity status. 
"He gets hundreds of personal appearance requests," said Faust's secretary. But Faust seems to enjoy the challenge and the frantic pace. 
The students, however, aren't all that differ­ent. Faust said he originally was apprehensive about the type of students with which he would have to deal at Akron. But he was pleasantly surprised. "The kids are really neat here, a lot like ND kids," Faust said. "Kids at ND are there because they want to be there. Here, kids want to get a degree." They may be the first generation of the family to go to college. He 
Jim ~ 
~.~~


Riley 
Assistant News Editor 

said the students at Akron are motivated to 
achieve and really want to learn. 
Faust "got to see the kids in action more at 
ND" than at Akron. Many leave school after 
their classes and go straight to work to pay the 
tuition, Faust said. 
One big difference--no grotto. 
"I miss the grotto," said Faust. For five 
years, he never missed a day at the grotto un­
less he was on the road. He said that over the 
years, he visited at every time of the day or 
night. Now, he visits a small church across the 
street from the Akron campus. 
He also misses the people at Notre Dame. "I try to keep in touch. There are a lot of people there I really think the world of," said Faust. 
"I still root for the Irish." 
Faust said recruiting for next year's team is going pretty well. Fourteen players have already committed themselves. But things will not be easy next year. Faust said he may have difficulty filling all of the 38 scholarships he can award, and, as a former Division 1-AA school, Akron doesn't have many scholarship players already on the squad. They'll have to play seven of their 11 games against Division 
1-A teams, teams with full rosters of experi­enced, scholarship players. 
Though the going will be tough, there are some words of wisdom painted on the wall of the Akron football office: "The greatest thing in the world is not where we are, but in what direction we are moving." 
A commentary on the team and also on the coach. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Film Series 
This week at the Snlte, the spring film series begins with three great films: 
Monday, January 19 at 7:00 and 9:00pm Casablanca (1942) BW, 102 min. Directed by Michael Curtiz, USA 
Everything is right In this WWII classic of war-tom Casablanca with elusive nightclub owner Humphrey Bogart finding old flame Ingrid Bergman and her husband, underground leader Paul Henreld, among skeletons in his closet Claude Rains is marvelous as the dapper police chief, and nobody sings "As Time Goes By" like Dooley Wilson. See it in preparation for Woody Allen's tribute, Play It Again, Sam, scheduled to show Friday, Jan. 30. As a special introduction to the spring film series, the first 300 patrons will be admitted to Casablanca free for both the 7:00 and 9:00 show. Come and pick up a film calendar. 
Tuesday, January 20 at 7:30pm Carefree (1938) BW, 80 min. Directed by March Sandrich, USA 
Madcap Ginger Rodgers goes to psychiatrist Fred Astalre in this wacky musical comedy with outstanding Irvin Berlin numbers In which the cure Is true love. Here the Astair&Rodgers series is lnfl~cted by the screwball comedy to produce a musical that is funnier than ever. 
Friday, January 23 at 7:30 and 9:30pm Hannah and Her Sisters (1986) Color, 100 min. Directed by Woody Allen 
By all accounts, one of Woody Allen's greatest films and the best film of 1966, this. is one of the film's last college showings before It is pulled from distribution to wait for the academy awards and theatrical re-release. Both a drama about three sisters and their romantic entanglements and a satirical comedy about 1V producer Allen's fears that he may have a fatal disease, Hannah is Allen's first real audience film since Annie Hall. With Michael Caine, Mia Farrow, Carrie Fischer, and Barbara Hershey. 
All shown at the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Individual admission $t.50. Series tickets also available. Film calendars will be coming in the first issue of Scholastic Magazine. Or pick up a copy in 320 O'Shaughnessy or at the door at the Snite. 
The Observer Monday, January 19, 1987-page 3 


Procedures for moving student cars during heavy snows detailed by Security department 
Special to The Observer south Dining Hall, and vehicles to a specified area. Stadium. Additionally, all This measure is necessarY to 
Notre Dame Security has an­roadways, sidewalks, loading effectively clear the student nounced the following snow zones, time zones, and traffic lots when they become impas­removal guidelines: circles. sive. Student-owned vehicles 
Student parking lots will be must be removed from the des­
1) All student-owned vehicles plowed when passage becomes ignated temporary lot within 24 are to be removed from any difficult or hazardous and the hours or whenever normal as­faculty,,staff parking lots faculty/Staff lots are cleared. signed lots are clear, depend­before midnight each night. Normally this would occur 36-ing on which comes first. Vehicles left in faculty/Staff lots 48 hours after a significant will be towed away at owners' snowfall. Major snowstorms As in the past, shovels will 
expense of $25 to the nearest would delay this process. be available at either Grounds student lot. Maintenance or Security for Once Resident Assistants those who can not wait for the 
2) Faculty/Staff lots from receive notice to move student lots to be cleared. Owners of which student vehicles will be vehicles to completely clear a vehicles who happen to be towed after midnight are: M,2 specific lot, students have until "plowed in" should contact & 3; Administration, the designated time given in Grounds Maintenance for as­Bookstore, North Dining Hall, the notice to move their sistance. 
Do you need $$$$$? 

Are you good with computers? 
. 
­
..: . .1 

then... 
4i~~~
~~ ,­
Student Government is looking for YOU! 
The Student Government Treasuries Office is seeking an individual who will automate our accounting system. You would be responsible for developing a program to maintain records and generate financial statements of all student activity fee transactions. 

See 'Becca or Chris for additional info and application in the Treasurer's Office, 2nd Floor La Fortune 12-4 Mon-Fri. 
------------------------~-------------------~ 

MOVE UP IN NURSING. AND IN 
THE WORLD. BE ANAVYOFFICER. 
If you want to make the most of advantages that will move your your potential, lbok into a career as career along even faster. an officer in the Navy Nurse Corps. But that's not all. You'll be earn­
You can move ahead fast ing a top salary with superb bene­because Navy promotions empha­fits. And there's worldwide travel size merit. And the opportunities should you choose an overseas for specialization are just as diverse assignment after your first tour of as in civilian nursing. Nurse anes­duty. You'll earn 30 days' paid vaca­thetist, operating room, and obstet­tion annually and enjoy job security rics are just a few of the excellent that can't be he~t. ~signments available. To "find out more about the 
Navy Nurse Corps, call without
You also get the added responsi­
obligation. Start your move up
bility and leadership opportunity 
in the world today!
that are yours as a Navy officer­


1-800-221-5932 Man-Wed, 8:30am-2pm 
NAVY NURSE. IT'S NOT JUSTAJOB IT'SAN ADVENTURE. 

Work 
continued/rom page I 
ton Hall's new air conditioning system should have been com­pletely installed by some time in February. 
The Eck Tennis Pavillion, northeast of the ACC, is due to be finished as well by some time in April. 
Directly north of the new ten­nis pavillion and three times its size will be the All Sports Build­ing. Workers are currently laying the foundations and put­ting in the landfill for the build­ing and will begin erecting the steel late in February, said Dedrick. The building will con­tain a weight room, clas­srooms, and an indoor, full-size football field, suitable for prac­
ticing place-kicking but not punting. A blue and gold, six­lane track will run around the field, allowing track meets to be held in the All Sports Build­ing, in addition to football prac­tice and soccer games. 
Bids will open this week to build the two new women's dorms on north quad. The two dorms will each house 250 stu­dents, and will be next to the Pasquerillas, of which they will be virtually mirror images. Workers have already cleared the site, and construction will begin as soon as possible. The new dorms are slate for com­pletion June 1, 1988, and will be ready for occupancy in the Fall of 1988. 

Applications for 
may be picked up in the Student Activities Office 
8:30 am -4:30 pm deadline: Friday, Jan. 23 
Indoor Soccer Sign-up Sat., Jan. 17, Noon-4 p.m. South Bend Turners-
Ironwood at the Ton Rd. 
* 
8 game session starting Jan. 30 

* 
Women -Fridays, 7 pm-12 am 

* 
Men -Saturdays, 7 pm-12 am and weeknights at 11 :30 pm 

* 
$50 deposit required per 15 member 


team (total fee -$350 per team) Call277-0851 for more information 
(3-5 pm) Indiana's First BUilt Indoor Soccer Arena 

The Observer Monday, January 19, 1987-page 4 
--.. 
. ­


ENCOUNTER WITH CHRIST 
A three day retreat experience directed by Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff. This experience will help you better 
understand that: 

U  Faith and religion involve the total person  
and every aspect of our life.  
2)  Each person is loveable for who they are.  
3)  Community and our experience of it is  
crucial to our integration of faith.  
4)  Faith leads us to action.  

JOIN US IF YOU ARE INTERESTED XPLORING THESE IDEAS. 
WHEN: Feb. 6 (1 pm) ·Feb. 8 (5 pm) 
WHERE: Lindenwood Retreat Center, Donalson, IN (University Ministry will provide transportation.) 
SIGN UP: Pick up applications starting Jan. 13, 1987 at the University Ministry Office 
in Badin Hall · APPLICATION DUE: Jan. 23, 1987 
FURTHER INFO: Contact Sr. Jo or Brother B. at University Minstry 239-5242 

OFFICE Of 

LNMRSITY MNISW -NDE-NDE-NDE-NDE-NDE-NDE­
"~~~·~~c;: +~,., 'Dtlt1U ~ 'WitJi cnrtst+ 
l•crt r-c....ow 11foUt 1~'11 l ..... V/Ifo/)f,,'fi 

USX workers approve new contract 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH United Steelworkers local union presi­dents Sunday overwhelmingly approved a four-year contract with USX Corp. that cuts pay 8 percent and eliminates 1,350 jobs while boosting job security for those who remain. 
The presidents voted 38-4 in favor of the pact after a nearly six-hour briefing in a downtown hotel that ended about 7 p.m. The settlement reached early Saturday was then sent to the union's International Execu­tive Board, where passage was virtually assured. 
pulic service perspective. "We're not just interested in
Exxon 
the technical concerns, but also the moral aspects," Hatch
continued/rom page 1 
said. 
"The concentration provides a way of looking at the broad The now embryonic program foundations and principles will be shaped and formulated which should guide a by the faculty committee and democracy" said Hatch. The the director in the College of 
program will focus on the foun­Arts and Letters. "The pro­dation of republicanism, con­gram is the fruit of the best in­temporary democracy and the sights of the faculty," said 
public policy process from a Hatch. 
M·Th 8·7:30 Fri 8·6 Sat 8·5 


• EPBRE RIEEZE AT THE naaT 
OF ._11111Df.IIWIIIBISDI liLY IalilT OF COli IF 
And then there are those who wann to the idea immediatf 1. These are the people we need at General Re. 
The ones with the extra measure of confidence in themselves and their abilities to accept or reject a million-dollar reinsurance opportunity. After our formal training program, you'll work alongside our knowledgeable staff of underwriters who'll provide technicmsupport and guidance with a minimum of supervision. 
A reinsurance company assumes all or part of the financial risk originally undertaken by a primary insurance company. And General Re is the leader the largest reinsurer in the country, and growing steadily. ' 
Few ~rganizations, in or out of the reinsurance industry, are more commrtted to you or your professional growth than General Re. Or more proud to offer a compensation package complete with excellent starting salary and benefits ranging from major medical and dental insurance to employee savings program and tuition assistance. 
No matter what your degree-liberal arts, business, economics or other discipline-we'll offer you an intriguing mix of marketing and technical 
responsibility that will maximize what you've already learned, yet challenge you enough to take advantage of our many training and 
and extended learning opportunities. 
So If you're the type that's looking for a springboard to a great career, and not just a stepping stone, 
Join us at our Presentation Tuesday, January 20 at 6pm Upper Lounge University Club 
General Re Services Corporation Financial Centre, P.O. Box 10353 Stamford, CT 06904-2353 
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h/v. 
From there it would go to a secret-ballot vote in which 33,000 of the union's 45,000 members at USX will be eligi­ble. The eligible voters include 11,000 of the 23,000 members laid off by the company. Ballots will be counted around month's end. 
If the rank and file approve the contract, the longest walkout in the union history would end around the six­month mark. USX would then have a chance to salvage some orders for the 1988 model year production of autos and for the traditionally busy spring and summer construction season. 
The USW claimed victory on its top priority, the company's widespread practice of con­tracting work to cheaper non­union labor. 
"Work capable of being per­formed by bargaining unit employees shall be performed by such employees," the union said in a contract summary. "Our perseverance clearly paid off in securing key changes which will go a long way toward resolving the long­festering contracting out prob­lem once and for all." 
O.C.S. CAN Hfl.P IDJ liUR; rur 'DIE LEAIER IN IDJ 
Arrlry Officer Carx:lidate ScOOol (O.C.S.) is a 14"'Week. ~that will make yru dig deep inside yoorself for 1EIIta1 am Ptysical tooghness. 
It isn't easy, &.It yru'll discover what I 8 inside }'00• You '11 koow yru have what it takes to lead. You'11 ccme out a trlm,fit camd.ssioned officer in the Arrlry,ready to exercise leadership sk1lls civillan ampmies p.rt a praaim on. 
If you're about to get JOUI' degree ani yoo're 1 for the right challenge,look into o.c.s. 
Call :your Arrlry Recruiter. 
SGT··LANE 
.l34-4187 
llflff. 
BE ALL IDJ CAN BE• 

"ieVV~_O_i_n__t____________~Mon~day,~Janu~ary1~9,100~7-p~age5 
Acceptance comes through immersion in culture 
Last week I celebrated the comple­tion of my first year in Chile, and I can honestly say that it has been far the most challenging year of my life. Learning a new language, living in a poor neighborhood in a different cul­ture, confronting the brutality of a mil­itary dictatorship, and working harder than ever before have made this year a critical time of personal and intellec­tual growth. However enriching these challenges may be, our lives would still be lacking something crucial without one particularly profound and forma­tive experience: the occcasional visit of a friend from the United States. 
Gib Gailius 
guest column 
From backpackers who somewhere along their Latin American hike get a hold of our address, to university presi­dents (Father Ted Hesburgh of Notre Dame was with us last week), to our own family members, at least once a month a visitor gives us the opportunity to share our experiences, and the country for that matter, with them. 
Each visit reminds us of our first days in Chile, and of those humorous and sometimes shocking first impres­sions. Observing the way we live, the newly arrived American usually com­ments, "How interesting." Besides maintainting a rather simple vegetarian diet and shopping at the cor­ner vegetable stands, we share true Chilean custom of "onces" (bread with jam and tea in the late afternoon). When in need of a telephone, we walk a few minutes and wait in line in front of the house of the family on our block who has one. When the dust and smog have dirtied our clothes, we wash them by hand in the sink and leave them out to dry ( a process requiring at least five days in the winter-time). The shower cleans us up when our bodies get dirty, but the water is icy cold. And even though the five of us living in the house are Americans, we converse in Spanish. After seeing all these habits in practice and up close, our visitor nor­mally asks the inevitable question, "Why do you do it?" 
The answer has a lot to do with how it is that we come to share the lives of the poor, and how we gradually come to be accepted by our neighbors. Be­cause Chileans are not ignorant when it comes to understanding their own his­tory, this sharing and acceptance does not come automatically. Beyond the su-· perficial smile which greets us as we arrive lies the realization that we rep­resent a country whose involvement in their political past has brought consi­derable suffering into their lives. Therefore, the habits mentioned above reveal not only a disposition on our parts to experience a simpler lifestyle, but also a sensitivity to those for whom that lifestyle is not necessarily a volun­tary option. 

Spending the time it takes to break through these relational barriers is a luxury which visitors who are just pass­ing through can seldom afford. Often times, then, they may sense a certain rejection even though their stay may have only lasted a few days. On the other hand, thinking that a longer stay would necessarily mean a greater ac­ceptance is wrong, and it is so because of politics. 
Politics penetrated Chilean society to its roots, and political beliefs often in­fluence the way people perceive us and our work. Because I work most of the time with the poor, to the rich I am a communist. And despite my willing­ness to understand and listen rather than preach the ideological formation 
P.O.BoxQ 
Bowlers band together to stop discrimination 
Dear Editor: 
After months of oppression and dis­crimination we have decided to bring our problem to this open forum. It has become apparent to our small group that there is a great need for the NDSMC community to be educated concerning the alternative sports life of the bowler. 
For years the bowler has been shunned and misunderstood among "normal" sports activists and has been the subject of ridicule. Recently more blatant name calling has begun to sur­face, one popular name being "pin­heads." This type of social criticism has driven us to coalesce and we feel that it is time to introduce the Bowler's Society of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College. We believe it is time to come out of the alleys, and with the support of the administration, we feel BSNDSMC can make great headway in the reduction of bowler discrimina­tion. 
Our primary goal is the relation of the message that bowling is not a dis­ease, it is a way of life. We were born bowlers. There is nothing wrong with being a bowler. As a show of our sin­cerity, we, the charter members of BSNDSMC have decided to make our names public regardless of the ridicule to which we will no doubt be exposed. 
William Downey Kirk Pierce Gregory Martinelli WaUer Howard Michael Visovatti Martin DeVita Gerrard Goldner Mark Gatto 

Action is necessary to improve any situation 
Dear Editor: 
In last semester's P.O.Box Q, a letter was printed in which John Schoegel told of his disillusionment in his childhood dreams about Notre Dame. After reading this, all that came to mind was, "Who cares?" 
Don't get me wrong -I'm the first to point out what I think is wrong in our little community, and I appreciate reading about student views on things that need improvement around here. That type of criticism is constructive; we can learn something from it -how to make things better. 
What Schloegel did was whine. He presented no point, no place for im­provement. He told us of his dreams of coming here when he was eight or nine I received in the United States, to some in the politically-active left I am ~ Yankee imperialist trying to impose upon them my beliefs. Although I can blame these misunderstandings on the political polarization of this particular society, at times I still struggle with what it means to be an American church volunteer in Chile. 
All of this sounds frustrating, but the very precariousness of our presence here makes those times when we do experience mutual trust that much more rewarding. Reaching that level of trust ~ a process which the visitor can glimpse but not possibly experi­ence, for it is the result of our having left behind, at least temporarily, the world from which we came. It means to see the country and even ourselves not through our own eyes, but rather through the eyes of the people who have invited us to accompany them. And our visitors, with their innocent and sincere manner of questioning, call us con­stantly to reflect upon this rich but pain­ful experience of being a part of both worlds, but for a time belonging to nei­ther. 
Gib Gailius is a 1985 graduate of Notre Dame and Holy Cross Associate in San­tiago, Chile. 
years old, and of a vague feeling of dis­appointment. What happened since Schloegel was that young? Was he so busy working for grades in high school to get accepted here that he couldn't grow up? He was right when he said he should have faced reality sooner; those of us who do face things the way they are know that nothing is perfect, and we do the best we can to improve upon them -through criticism and through action. 
I'm awfully sorry that Schloegel's little dreams of the perfect place did not come true, but I don't feel like reading his whining in the paper. Why can't he wake up and smell the coffee or do something about what he thinks is wrong with his environment? He can write back to P.O. Box Q when he has a point to make. 
Mike Annan Lisa Keenan Hall 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
YOU t:XJN1 UNI/ER-~CK, YOU
50/JOI.
HOL/?/T, 

STANIJ, .XVWte. MY PRIJMI5fP
INrllG,I 

YO/ IJAI?I?Y! C1JtJL[)
RIO<. YOIJ'f?& 
IJ5(JAUY PO. 

1'/..LU/AU<. VOO, SON~
EP~'S OUT 5/CJ<, TO TAl<&
!iUPPO:BJ 70 
F()RONC&, 

SO I... \ HIM! YOU
{)RIVe JEFF 

/ RICK!
I'IJUI<£70 

~PO 
/ \
70 PAYCAl?& 

7HI570M&!
ARRIVE ON
70l¥lY. 
\
TIM& 


Quote of the day 
"He who cannot forgive others breaks the bridge over which be himself must pass." 
Confucius 
(551-479 B. C.) 

General Board 
Ibe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll News Editor .............................................. Trjpp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University 'tiewpoint Editor ......................... C-hristopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ........................................ Mary Jacoby BuSiness Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........................... Margie Kersten Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski Controller ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1988 
Accent 


could it 
be the missing 
piece? 





Have you ever had the horrible leaving Notre Dame, the scene was I by all that I saw that I Im­friends who were out there In the beat up a juke box. Mighty brave feeling that someone or some­of so many trials and tribula­mediately became car sick. My night. They would be singing guys. I took pleasure In the many thing Is watching you? I haven't tions, the scene of some of the carrnates were deeply moved by "Auld Lang Syne" and carousing rare beers they had there: Bud either but welcome back anyway. finest cuisine In the Western this show of heartfelt emotion with members of the opposite Light Natural Lite and Old Mil­
Yes, welcome back to another se­Hemisphere. I was so excited by and they ordered me to clean It sex. I was watching Brent waukee Lite. My eyes feasted 
mester of fun In the sun at our the prospect of seeing my up myself. Musberger. There Is a hell. upon the Incredible female hallowed University. But even as hometown (Dayton, Ohio) that I My homecoming was a thing beauties that frequent those bars we begin a new chapter of the Immediately fell asleep and of beauty. Dad greeted me with I got better by Jan. 4 and and I heard them speak. They great adventure we call youth we droolled all over the bucket a heartfelt "Hawa beer, slddown horizons broadened considerab­said "Do I have a Dorito stuck 
cannot forget the spine-tingling seats. There Is no doubt In my and watch the game," while Mom ly. I watched countless hours of between my teeth?" excitement we have only recently mind that this was an attempt to showed true sensitivity by saying ever-stimulating MTV where the One day, as I gasped with ex­left behind. Yes, you're correct rest up for all the Intense joy I "Get your feet off the table before sight of Dweezil Zappa and his citement over an action packed I'm talking about Christmas knew awaited me. I smack you silly." Who ever said whiny sister made me shiver with HBO movie. I realized what was 
< 

Break and It was Incredible huh? I awoke four hours later and the American family was an en­delight. I watched as Billy Idol wrong. I was missing something:' dangered species? Little brother made musical history by singing I felt out of place, lonely. "Could kneed me in the groin when I with three (count 'em) sleazy It be?" I thought. "Do I miss
KrlsMurphy 

attempted to leave my luggage backup singers and writhing on Notre Dame?" I decided I did so in his room and I returned the the floor at the same time. I called my friends, packed my favor by running over his dog I visited the world-renowned bags and came back. End of,
Altered 

with the snowblower several days bars of Dayton, Ohio where I story. Eat your chicken patty and later. What a great kid he Is. I'm watched 250 pound rednecks have a good semester. sure he'll go far.
To give you just a small taste was Immediately awed to the of all the adventure, romance, max by the grandeur, the sheer Christmas Eve was upon me and downright knee-slapping wonder that was Dayton, Ohio. I before I knew lt. I thought I was craziness that I savored over saw old landmarks like Ernie's going to cry when I saw the stock­


Tired of the



break I've decided to set down Pawn Shop, the downtown ings hung with care and smelled (In words) a short summary of parking garage and the Brown the latex needles of the fake the ecstasy that was my vacation. Street Burger King. These sights Christmas tree. We all went to 
old routine? 

December 18, 1986--lt all touched my heart In a way that midnight Mass and I got to sit started with a bang. In other I haven't felt since Vanna White behind a woman who smelled words someone slammed the car stroked my ankles repeatedly like mothballs. We went home to door and we were suddenly several months ago. So awed open gifts. I got McDonald's gift 
r--:=:--=----::------==--==-:------:;----------.certlflcates and underwear. My ~~~~'111/UfE'~ _/ thanks knew no bounds and toD n ''"~ ,...,. -/· I gath­
show my appreciation,c L/AHo..Vi I -ered up all the gifts I had given ,---r . and returned them for cash. This '\ -l went over rather badly with the 

The Accent department is
rest of the family and they
stopped speaking to me. 
accepting applications for: 
I took this as a good sign for the New Year but I suddenly be­came Ill with the flu. My friends at home visited me bringing gifts 
• Features Copy Editor 
of good cheer and beer which they drank themselves. They also threw the empties behind 
e Scene Photo Editor 
my couch. 

(No photography experience necessary} 
I was still sick on New Year's Eve but I managed to get out of bed to treat myself to Brent 
For Information contact Mary Jacoby at The Observer 
Musberger who was counting 
(239-5313), 3rd floor Lafortune. 
down to the New Year. As Brent babbled my mind turned to my 


~------------------~~------------------~----------­
Monday, January 19, 1987-page 6 -7 
.And now. • • 
counseling justa phone call away 

SHANNON SWEENEY features writer 
Are you lonely? Are you de­pressed? If you answered yes to any of these questions, well then pick up your phone and call the University Counseling Center's Counsellne. 
Counsellne consists of a con­fidential telephone service offer­Ing Information from profes­sional tapes, which deal with topics ranging from "Depres­sion" to "Dating Skills." 
Notre Dame began Counsellne 6 years ago when the Counseling Center purchased their tapes from the University of Texas. Over the years, some tapes were added and others modified, but the basic format remains. Coun­sellne Is available from 4 to 12 
p.m. Monday through Thursday. During this time, student volun­teers man the phones connect­Ing the caller with the tape they wish to listen to. The tapes run anywhere from .3 to 16 minutes and the format of each differs according to the topic. Some tapes deal with communication skills while others relate the signs ofdepression or eating dis­orders. A full list of tapes Is listed on the first page of the student directory. 
After listening to the tape, stu­dent volunteers are available to talk with the caller. However, Counsellne Is not a Crisis Line: It Is not maintained by profes­sional psychologists, but rather students. Ifthe volunteers notice a real problem, they will refer the person to the University Counsel­Ing Center for therapy sessions. 
"Counsellne Is a good referral service for people to find out If they need professional help, but Its main purpose Is to provide Information that serves a wide variety of people," said Mary Raeker, last year's coordinator. 
Many other colleges have similar services, which also In­clude Crisis Hot Lines In some of the larger state universities. Because ofthis, many people see these phone services as a trend of the '80s. Raeker agrees; she feels Counsellne reaches many people who would never contact help otherwise. However, she also says that Counsellne Is not just for those who need help, but for anyone who needs Informa­tion. 
Counsellne receives an average of 600 calls a year with an equal number of men and wo­men calling. Around mid-terms and finals more calls are received for the tapes "Relaxation Exer­cises" and "CQplng with Stress." The five most requested tapes are: "Male Homosexuality," "Physical Intimacy," "Female Homosexuality," "Dating Skills" and "Infatuation or Love." 
If you have problems facing a week oftests or Ifyou are worried about a depressed friend, Coun­sellne provides the servles you may be searching for. The num­ber of Counsellne Is 2.39-779.3 and the tapes are listed In the beginning of the student direc­tory • 
The OIIHrver/Fred Doble 
Soap scoops 
ALL MY CHILDREN: Langley and Phoebe vowed not to let anyone split them up again. Erica continued to refuse to admit that Mark had a danger­ous drug problem. Joe was concerned about Jefrs atti­tude about their working relationship. Coming: Mark springs another surprise on Erica. 
ANOTHER WORLD: Under questioning, Gomez remained loyal to Reginald. Mac told Rachel she had to prove to him that It was over between herand Mitch. Rachel was upset about Mac's growing friendship with Rose. VIckie left town to try to make a life of her own away from her father and grandfather. Coming: Michael gets a clue about the photograph Reginald showed Donna before she collapsed. 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: Frannie and Seth followed an­other lead to team the truth. about Marsden. Kim and Bob were upset at the way they felt the mystery was going. Com­Ing: Lilly misinterpreted Hol­den's feelings again. 
CAPITOL: Trey was out­raged by Angelica's reaction to his question. Clarissa was more confused than ever by stories she heard. Julia's revelations left the Cleggs In confusion. Coming: Trey takes steps to team more about Angelica's past. 
DALLAS: Sue Ellen was un­
aware that the man she knew 
as Peter Duncan was really 
B.D. calhoun. Kay fretted over losing Donna. Bobby was up­set at Pam's over protective­ness of Christopher Note: Patrick Duffy (Bobby) directed this episode.) Coming: J.R. gets upsetting news about calhoun. 
DAYS Of' OUR LIVr:S: Melissa rE;jolned the dance company determined to work her way back without Lars' help. The pollee discovered that evidence against Kim was missing. At the hearing, Alex shocked everyone by saying Kim had tried to kill Emma earlier. Kim was charged with first-degree murder. Coming: Kayla Is perplexed by Patch's apparent distance. 
FALCON CREST: Peter agonized over Skyler's appar­ent suicide. Angela comforted Emma who finally realized that Dwayne was gone forever. Tony learned the truth about Skyle~t. Lance called his father for help when Melissa had a breakdown. Coming: Chasse has to make an accommodation. with An­gela and Richard, much to his displeasure. 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: 
Sandy's attitude Irked Monica. 
Patrick worried that he might 
cause harm to Terry. Bobby 
and Jake got news about their 
surrogate plan. Coming: Anna 
finds Buzz has a surprise for 
her. 
GUIDING LIGHT: Johnny's 
suspicions about Christine In· 
creased. Josh worried that 
Reva was keeping Vanessa 
fretted that Dina might always 
harbor a grudge. Coming: 
Chelsea drops a bomb shell. 
KNOTS LANDINO: Abby seemed to be fighting a losing battle as she attempted to make Olivia realize the harm of her drug use, pointing to Brian as one of the victims. In her frustration, Abby lashed out at Karen who was having her own problems coping with Mack's meeting with Anne. Coming: Abby gets more bad news. 
LOVING: Tony was afraid of where Nick was heading. Steve's anger at Fletcher could prove disastrous. Harry worried that Steve might never forgive him for his part In breaking his relationship with Trlsha. Coming: Ava uses new Information to try to get Nick's attention. 
ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Tina felt 
more helpless than ever as 
evidence mounted against 
her. Tom and Cord clashed 
ov~r Tom's way of running the 
paper. Clint nursed deep 
feelings of resentment over 
Tom. Coming: Jamie has new 
surprises for Charles. 
RYAN'S HOPE: Max's 
suspicions of Slobhan's be­
havior grew darker. Della was 
confused about her feelings 
for Dakota. Lizzie became 
more dependent on Maeve. 
Coming: A time of decision 
nears for Slobhan and Joe. 
SANTA 8ARBARA: Julia's jealousy over Mason and Tom threatened to get out of hand. Eden pushed away a sneaky feeling about Jeff. Cruz worried that Tori might not be doing as well as she says. Kel­ly's return Is lnjeopardy. Com­Ing: Cruz makes a breakthrough that leads to a surprise suspect. 
THE YOUNG ~ THE REST· LESS: Rose reminded a ter­rified Nina that she signed the adoption papers. Evan said he was concerned about his daughter. Phillip learned the truth about Kay's part In taking his birthright from him and refused to allow her to adopt him. Jack took Ellen to meet his family. Coming: Evan Is determined to return with Mlchelle1"aren no matter what. 
1987, McNaught Syndicate 

Counsellne volunteer Patti Briody talking with a troubled student. 
• 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------·-------­
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
The ND softball club will have its first practice tomorrow at 10 p.m. for all interested women. Enter through Gate 3 of the ACC. The second practice will be Thursday at 9:30 
p.m. For more information contact Barb (4072) or Lynn (2666). -The Observer 
The ND rowing club's women's varsity and novice teams will have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. at room 123 Niewland. Anyone interested in rowing is welcome to attend. Also Stevensons can be picked up at 7:30 p.m. today at the same place. -The Observer 
Bengal Bouts boxing workouts continue today at 4: 15 in the boxing room in the north dome of the ACC. Beginners are welcome to participate in the Bengal Bouts, which begin in seven weeks. -The Observer 
The ND Tae Kwon Club will hold its first class and informational meeting for the spring session tonight at 7 
p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. New members are welcome. For more information contact Greg Barron at 4618. -The Observer 
Aerobics classes at Saint Mary's begin today at Angela Athletic Facility. Intramural class schedules are Monday and Wednesday, 10-11 p.m. and Friday 4-5 p.m. Cost is $5 for the semester. Also physical education classes for aerobics are offered Monday and Wednesday, 12 p.m. and 4:30-5:30 p.m. and Tuesday and Thursday, 1 p.m. and 4:30-5:30 p.m. Registration in advance is required. For more information call 284-5548. -The Observer 
Split 
continued/rom page 12 
but it was very physical. The key was how we followed through on our checks," said Smith. "We stapled them to the boards, and that's how hockey should be played." 
Freshman goalie Lance Madson, a late addition to the starting lineup, turned back 22 Cadet shots in Friday's win. His performance was good enough to earn him another starting assignment the next evening. 
Army, with almost a totally different starting lineup than the previous night, controlled the play in the first period. Notre Dame grabbed the lead in a very physical second per­iod. 
Emotions that were obvi­ously high, as a fight between the teams during pre-game warmups indicated, reached their peak in the middle twenty minutes, as ten penalties were handed out during a period of bruising checks and assorted fights. 
In the midst of all this, Bruce Guay tied the game on a power play goal, and Frank O'Brien gave the Irish the lead with his first goal of the year. 
"We were missing three players and to still come out and play this well was out­standing," said Smith. "It was O'Brien's first time ever at left wing, and he played well and even scored that goal." 
Notre Dame's offense quieted down in the third per­iod, as the Irish only had three shots on goal in the final twenty minutes. In the meantime, Matt Wilson scored his second 
Monday, January 19, 1987-page 8 

Freshmen have impressive showing at the Hoosier Dome Invitational 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The performance of two freshmen and a strong all­around team performance were the highlights for the Irish at the Hoosier Dome Invita­tional Friday. 
Glenn Watson, a freshman«'' from South Bend, surprised himself and everyone else by 
winning  the  60-meter  high  
hurdles  with  a  time of 8.0  
seconds.  

"I hadn't expected to do so well," said Watson. "I really didn't have a plan or anything. I just did the best I could." 
Watson won his first heat but finished second to a runner from Indiana St. in the semi­finals. Watson came out on top in the finals as the Indiana St. runner was slowed when he hit a hurdle. 
The other freshman with an impressive showing was shot putter Tom Kraus. His toss of 51 feet, 5 314 inches was good enough for fourth place. 
"Going into the meet I really 
goal of the evening to tie the game. It appeared the final game would be heading for overtime until the Cadets scored a freak goal in the last minute to win it. 
Rob Brenner fired a slap shot from just past Notre Dame's blue line that somehow slipped out of Madson's glove and into the net with 50 seconds left in the game. An empty-net goal by Ed Melanson ended the S!!Oring at 6-4. 
"Of course it's disappointing to end up losing, but a little bounce here or there and it could have gone the other way," said Smith. "It was a better,played game. We finished our checks and moved the puck a little better. 
Notre Dame will next play American Collegiate Hockey Association rival Kent State on the road this coming Friday and Sattirday. 
didn't know what to expect," said Kraus. I could have won if I had thrown my best, but it's a good way to start, anyway." 
The performances of the freshmen is especailly impres­sive considering this was the first meet of their collegiate careers. 
"There was alot of distrac­tion, especially because Carl Lewis was competing," Kraus said. "I needed to concentrate more. In high school I won every meet so easily, but it's different now." 
Co-captain Jeff Van Wie led the distance corps by taking second in the 1000-meter run with a time of 2:28.01. Dan Gar­rett won his heat in the mile rup with a 4:15.1, and Rick Mul­vey took second in the 3000­meter run with a 8:33.1. 
The two-mile relay team of Mike Rogan, Paul DuVair, Nick Sparks, and Kirby Kin­ghorn finished third and qualified for the IC4A's with a time of 7:43.15. Spark's split of 
1:52.2 earned him the fourth 
Orangemen are defeated 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Junior guard Gary Grant scored 17 of his 23 points in the second half yesterday as Michigan held off a late Syracuse charge and up­set the previously unbeaten and fifth-ranked Orangemen 91-88 in a nationally televised non-conference basketball game. 
Garde Thompson's three­point basket with 2: 26 remain­ing gave the Wolverines an 86­77 advantage, but the Orangemen scored six points in 29 seconds to cut the lead to 86-83 with 1:57 remaining. 
spot on the two-mile relay team which will run at the Orange and Blue Classic Feb. 7. 
The mile relay team of Yan Searcy, Robert Nobles, Peter Demeo, and Chris Maguire won their heat with a time of 3: 21. 
Rick Mench took sixth in the triple jump and qualified for the IC4A's with a jump of 48 feet, 2 inches. 
Cold 
continued/rom page 12 
"If I had, I would have protected him better." 
For the Irish, Mark Steven­son led the way with 15 points. Donald Royal added 13, and Scott Hicks had 10. The Irish will have a week to work on their scoring problems before heading to Pauley Pavillion for a date with UCLA this Satur­day. 
Saturday'• Raaulta Welt VIrginia 57, Notre Dame 55 Weat VIrginia (57) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Prue  29  5-11  0-0  4  5  10  
Yearwood  38  1-8  2-3  9  3  4  
Semisch  20  2-4  0-0  2  2  4  
Crawl  34  6-10  2-2  0  3  15  
Brooks  20  3-6  0-0  1  0  6  
Berger  15  0-0  4-4  0  1  4  
Pinckney  24  2-2  0-1  5  4  4  
Miller  3  0-0  0-0  1  0  0  
Shaw  17  5-9  0-1  4  2  10  
200 24-50  8-11  26  22  57  
FG  Pet  -.480.  FT  Pet.  -.727.  Team  

rebounds-2. Turnovers -14. 3-popint goals -Crawl. Assists -6 (Yearwood 2). Technicals -none. 
Notre Dame (55) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Royal 38 2-4 9-11 5 4 13­Stevenson 38 6-11 2-2 6 2 15 Voce 18 0-1 0-1 3 1 0 Rivers 35 1-7 5-7 6 1 7 Hicks 37 4-12 2-2 2 2 10 Fredrick 3 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Smith 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Connor 12 1-2 0-0 1 1 3 
T. Jackson 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 
J. Jackson 12 2-4 2-2 1 2 7 
Paddock 2 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 200 16-42 20-25 25 13 55 
FG Pet. -.381. FT Pet. -.800. Team rebounds -b6. Turnovers -18. 3-point goals -Stevenson, Connor, J. Jackson. Assists -3 (Royal, Voce, Rivers). Technicals -Hicks (hanging on rim). 
Halftime -West Virginia 24, Notre Dame 
16. Officials -Paul Housman, Dick Paparo, David Dodge (all ACC). A -11,418 (c). 

T11e ObAIYer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. T1le Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
WORDPROCESSING 2n-8131 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
ATTENTION CHICAGO RESIDENTSIII II you are not registered to vote In this yearo Mayoral Democratic Primary or need an abeentee ballot. please call Beth Ward at 272·7924 lodayl 
DOES your Club need a T -shirt design? How about T -shirts or other Imprinted oportawear? Call John £1622 
SUMMER IN EUROPE $279 Lowest Scheduled Fares to all of Europe from Chicago. Call 1(800) 325-2222. .............................. ..... SAVE $$$11 Buy your clasa books at PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our new loca· lion: 808 Howard St.;ust off ol N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 daya a week 10-530, ph. 233­2342. Bring In this ad and receive $5 off 
~-~-~..~~..~-'..'.50~~..~~................... 

LOST...GOLD BEAD NECKLACE LAST SEEN IN NO LIBRARY ON DEC. 15TH IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND OR CALL £3763. 
lost.. red book bag with gymnastics gear, Including gripe, shoes, etc. Meets start In 2 weeks, need desperately. II found call 1802 or bring to 1110 Grace. 
LOST... ROOM KEY AND MAIL BOX KEY FOR ROOM 243111 Keychaln Ia baalc NO, wood keychaln. Please call Jill at 373611 you know of their whereabouts I I mlaa themlll 
FOR RENT 
Two room utilities paid private entrance one person 288-095&2n -1254 
0 Wanted : There Is a space open at campus view apartments for one female for the spring semester -If interested please contact Noreen al 272 -9361 or Kim al x4440 for more information. 
............................................................... . 
I 

WANTED 
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project ManagB< needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-800-237·2061 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE HEWLETT PACKARD 9125 DISC DRIVE NEW $1200 HEWLETT PACKARD GRAPHIC PRINTER DIS­PLAYS BAR,PIE,ECT CHARTS IN SIX COLORS NEW $2000. ALSO WYSE TERMINAL & SCREEN $250 ALL BRAND NEW FOR $2250. 
Macintosh w1<eyboard, macwrltepalnt,and mouse -$900. £3268 Steve. 
ATT:SKIERS FOR SALE K2 712 WI TYR.360 BINDINGS EXC. COND. CALL LAURIE SHEA 2146 
For Sale: Canon Typestar 6 Electronic Typewriter $130 272-1959 
For Sale: MicroSohWord for Macintosh. Never opened. Purchased at NO $115. 272-1959 
BIG$$$ FOR N CAROLINA TICKS CALL MIKE 1129 
NEED 3-4 N.C. TIXS Call Todd 2551 
NEED NORTH CAROLINA GA TICKETS CALL LARRY 2131 
Need 2 GA's for DePaul. Call Kathy 284­
4380. 
PERSONALS 
Profesaor Weigert: Thank you for th"e note. That was vary consJderate of you. Hopa everyone will continue to enjoy the papers. Marl< Potter, Circulation Manager 
Part-time mk1g. pos. on campus. Poten­tial to make $611r. Call Cindy at 1-800­592-2121. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS ORIENTATION SESSION FOR NEWLY­REGISTERED STUDENTS FOR ON­CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AT 4:00p.m. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS ORIENTATION SESSION FOR NEWLY­REGISTERED STUDENTS FOR ON­
ELIGIBLE STUDMUFFINS AWAKEIII ••• FARLEY ON BROADWAY"" POP FARLEY WEEK "' THIS SATURDAY IS LOOMING NEARIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII FARLEY ON BROADWAY""" POP FAR­LEY WEEK FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR· LEY WEEK FARLEYITES GET PSYCHED! II FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR­LEY WEEK 
Tim F. of 223 Grace Wquld you dance with a stranger H she asked? Wonder­lng...Reply here soon. 
MICHIGAN JIM'S "LIFE IS NOT A BED OF ROSES" Bo Go Homel 
YOU HAVE TO FIGHT FOR YOUR RIGHT TO PARTY 0 
DO IT FOR THE MOST IMPORTANT PERSON IN YOUR LIFE • YOUI ND 
ENCOUNTER WEEKEND FEB 8-8 APPLICATIONS AT CAMPUS MINI­STRY BADIN HALL 239-5242 OR INFO FROM JIM 2091 OR KAREN 2904 
PLEASE HELP --I NEED A RIDE TO 
SAVE $$$11 Buy your clasa books at PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week, 10-530 ph. 233­2342. Bring In this ad and receive $5 off every order of $50 or morel 
BILOXI BLUES Nell Slmon'a pley on Jan 23 at the Morrla Civic Auditorium. Sign up In the T....aurar'a Office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. Tlx $12 (lnclud• tranapor­tatlon). Sponaored by SAB. 
Want aoma LATE NIGHT ACTION? 
A.C.C. thla Wed. Jan 21 akatlng and hot chocolate 
11:15-12:15 
aponaored by SAB 
TOASTMASTERS will meet on Wednes­day January 21 at 7pm In Hayes-Healy rm 223. New membars welcome! 
E BALLOONS BALLOONS BALLOONS Now at IRISH GARDENS In the base­ment of LaFortune Balloon bouquets delivered Balloon and rosa, free delivery this week only BALLOONS BALLOONS BALLOONS 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 DUKE STU­DENT TIX-CALL KIM x4440 

CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AT IU-BLOOMINGTON THIS WEEKEND, yo you campus view studs, we miss you ................................................................ 4:00p.m. JAN.23 TO JAN.25. CALL NIKKI, 283-aireadyican we coma over for a backrub CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· 3785. in the jacuzzl?love,your P.W.
l QST/ fQU N 0 I 

Campus travel representative needed VICES OFFICE. women.p.s.can we stili tawik? 
promote Spring Break tour to Florid• TICKETS Ski LOST: NECKLACE-GOLD CROSS Earn money, free travel, and outstanding STEAMBOAT '""HELPII GOING TO SEE BILLY JOEL WITH DIAMOND on Monday night, Jan. marl<eting experience. Call Inter-Campus OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, lor Spring B1'1111k IN INDY?? I NEED A RIDE BACK TO 
12 great oentimental value, REWAROIII Programs at 1-800-433-n47 for details Need GAs for N. Carolina and Duke. Call CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE contact Joe l190 or Jeff :la8o apon­SMC ON OWl! OR 09. CALL KIM 284­Call Marianne at 4161. and Information mailer. Blll,2008 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. aored by SAB 5535""" 
The Observer Monday, January 19, 1987-page 9 

Mike Griffin and the Michigan Wolverines Syracuse yesterday. See AP story on page 8. 
SAB presents 
Ski Steamboat for Spring Breal< 
6 nights lodging 4 day lift tickets ~f people limited 

$1 00 deposit, first come first served 
Call: Joe *1190 Jeff *3660 
upset unbeaten 

~What Catholics IShould Know About ... 
Su11da1'. Fe/m{({rJ' 1 told litl~\cltn·. Fdm{({rl')
. . . . .. 
Church 
Regina eon, Department of'Jbro/ogy 
Prayer 

Pat Gantz, Retreat Ministry 

Images ofGod 
Catherine LaCugna, Department of'Jbro/ogy 
Sul/{ft~)'. Felmtm:r 22 a11d l/t(~,dt~J'. Febmmy 2-1 
Sacraments 
Andre Leveille, Untversity Ministry 
Su11dar..1/anb 1 a11d 'llfl~wltn·. ..1/arcb .)
. 

Morality 
Monk Malloy, Department of'Jbro/ogy 
Registration furms will be awilable al both om~ of University Ministry: Memorial library-239-6536 Badin Hall-239-5242 
Spomored bv the Office ofUniversity Ministry 


Ditka to leave following '87 season because of generaln1anager ouster 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -Chicago Bears Head Coach Mike Ditka has told his bosses he will not return after the 1987 NFL season because of a dispute over the team's firing of its general manager, according to a newspaper report published yesterday. 
The Boston Sunday Globe said Ditka told Michael McCas­key, the team president, of his intentions after McCaskey refused to rehire general manager Jerry Vainisi, who was fired last week. 
"Then this season is my last," Ditka is reported as saying. "Don't even bother to ask me about signing an exten­sion of my contract, because I won't do it." 
Mter the conversation, Ditka reportedly told his assistant coaches that 1987 would be his last season with the Bears and if they wanted they were free to start looking for new jobs im­mediately. 
In Chicago, Bears spokes­man Brian Harlan said he had heard the report but could not confirm it. He said he did not know how to reach McCaskey or Ditka, who reportedly was on vacation. 
The Globe said Ditka was "fuming" because Vainisi is his best friend and Ditka's strongest ally in Chicago's front office. 
"Ditka and Jerry are best of 
STANLEY H KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL GNTER LID 
DON'T COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. South Dend Ave. South Dend, IN 46637 Phone 219/272-4135 

GAfAT NCLEX· RN 
friends," according to an uni­dentified source quoted by the newspaper. "When the 'big four' (Ditka, McCaskey, Vainisi and personnel director Bill Tobin) got together, Jerry usually backed Ditka. This is what happened with (Doug) Flutie, and McCaskey didn't like it. It happened three or four times, and McCaskey wasn't happy about it." 
McCaskey said he dismissed Vainisi because of "philosophi­cal diferences." He said Vainisi is still a consultant. 
Vainisi, however, still con­siders himself the team's gen­eral manager and has two years left on the contract given to him by George Halas in 1983. 
Women 
continuedfrom page 12 
to, foul as DePaul held on for the 80-68 victory. 
The Irish next take to the court Tuesday in a 7:30 p.m. contest at the ACC against Cleveland State. 
Sunday's Results DePaul 80, Notre Dame 68 DePaul (80) 
M FG·A  FT·A  R  F  P  
Hogan  30  0·3  3-4753  
Ehrhardt  38  8·16  0·2  4  1  16  
Vines  40 10-17  8-14  9  2  28  
Anderson  40  8·13  6-7  2  2  22  
Ross  25  1-4  1-2  7  2  3  
Morgan  17  2·3  2·3  3  1  6  
Gardner  10  1·3  o-o  o 2  2  
200 30-59  20-32  32  15  80  
FG  Pet.  • .508.  FT  Pet.  • .625.  Team  

rebounds • 2. Turnovers • 10. Assists • 15(Anderson 8). Technicals. none. Notre Dame (68) 
M FG·A FT·A R F P Toney 39 4-14 2-4 3 4 10 Bunek 30 7-8 3-3 6 3 17 Botham 23 2-4 o-o 8 5 4 Gavin 36 6·12 o-o 2 5 12 Barron 19 1-6 1·2 2 0 3 Ernigholz 11 ()..2 o-o 2 1 0 Elliott 5 o-o o-o 0 0 0 Mahoney 2 o-o o-o 0 1 0 Schwartz 20 6-14 2-2 7 4 14 Morrison 15 2·2 4-4 5 2 8 200 28-62 12·15 35 25 68 
FG Pet. • .452. FT Pet. • .800. Team rebounds • 6. Turnovers • 20. Assists • 19(Gavin 13). Technicals-none. 
Halftime • DePaul 33, Notre Dame 31. Of. ficials •• Terry Gibbons, Keith Fisher, . A • 264. 


::.~Godfatha·s Pizza~ 
Find one. Its Worth it 
FRIDAY&SATURDAY SPECIALS 
('J,JI• 1\f) .~ 1\ I. 
I I
1 Medium original single 
1

I ingredient pizza and 1I cheese bread Godfatha's 1 1 $5.25 plus tax & deliv.~~~ I 
tAto,, ~.p~r... ~'n11 7 lfs worth it. I 
L--------------------~
Godfather~ We Deliver to a Linaited Area 
~Pizza. 52920 US 31 North ~277-5880 South Bend, IN 
The Observer 


"I he Ul!servertKoDert Jones 

Jamere Jackson, a member Notre Dame's "blue" team, attempts to drive in Saturday's loss to West Virginia. Marty Strasen high­lights the blue team's role in his story at right. 
SMC pulls off upset over Franklin College 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team, 6-4, added another vic­tory to their record on Saturday by defeating Franklin College 75-66. In its third game of the new year, Marv Wood's team was able to keep one of the top teams on the schedule off the boards so that the Belles could pull off the upset. 
The offense was lead by the sister team of Julie and Tammye Radke with 20 and 19 points respectively. Teammate Jenny Harte shot 9 of 13 from the field to help the Belles as well. 
The Belles shot 40 percent from the field and 83 percent from the line. 
"It is important for the team to maintain 40 percent from the field in order to win the game," said Coach Wood. "The free throws were excellent also, and 

REWARD $1,000 
Do You Know 
This Man? 
If you do, you could WIN $1,000 on the spot In an exciting new game of cunning, strategy and skill...coming to your campus soon. 
You could also WIN an ail expense paid trip to the Bahamas...$1,000 cash...round-trip airfare to Hawaii for two...$5,000 in cash. 
For Information on how you can register to WIN, call toll free 1·800-PLAYERS. 
The Great American Assassin Contest The Ultimate Challenge 

when the team goes 10 for 12, it will help us win the games." 
Besides the scoring, Wood gave a lot of credit to the defense. 
"The major contribution to the game comes with the de­fensive rebounds," said Wood. "The change in our defense has helped to increase our rebound­ing." 
With a long list of con­tributors on the boards, the Belles have averaged about 40 rebounds a game. This consis­tancy will help to develop the overall play of the game that Wood is looking for. 
In the two games last week, Saint Mary's split. On the road, Manchester defeated the Belles 70-49, while the Belles pulled off a victory over Tri State at home, 62-57. 
With the hopes of continuing to dominate the offensive and defensive boards, Saint Mary's hosts Huntington College on Tuesday night. 
Monday, January 19, 1987-page 10 

Irish reserves 
Blue team gets playing time 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Among four freshmen and one sophomore on the Notre Dame basketball team, there seems to be a case of the blues going around. 
Not the sad type. Not the mu­sical type. Not even the color type. No, these blues are more the happy type. 
For sophomore Michael Smith and freshmen Tony Jack­son, Scott Paddock, Joe Fred­erick and Jamere Jackson, get­ting the blues means seeing a little more floor time for the Irish. Head Coach Digger Phelps calls this group of five the blue team. 
"This is the time of the season when we start diversify­ing our game plan, and it's im­portant to get our younger players needed experience," Phelps said. "It just happens that, with their size and playing positions, they can go out on the floor as a unit. The cohesion they're learning now will be a big plus in future games." 
Against West Virginia on Sat­urday afternoon, the blue squad did not quite live up to Phelps' billing. The team en­tered the game with 8:30 to go in the first half, turned the ball over on three occasions, al­lowed a three-point basket by the Mountaineers' J.J. Crawl and was pulled from the game after less than two minutes on the floor. 
The squad has been more successful in past games, 
Tharics to you... it works... 
for AU. 
OFUS 
Unitedway
• 
however, being used in press­ing situations and to give the starters some rest. And al­though Phelps has not pointed out any particular role for the team other than to run the reg­ular offenses and defenses, its quickness seems to be its strength. 

Michael Smith 
"We go with a quick lineup," said Paddock, "so I think that makes us a very good team for the press. We still run the same offenses and defenses as the regulars, but our quickness helps us out probably more than anything. 
"I like the idea of the blue team. It gives us the chance to get in the game and show people what we can do. I like coming off the bench and doing the job." 
Still, some question the strat­egy of sending five players with little game experience on the floor to face more experienced players in the different-colored uniforms. 
-
.. 
Join the community of South Bend in celebrating the 

Martin Luther King, Jr. 
National Holiday Monday, January 19 1987 
9:30 a.m. -10:00 p.m. at the Century Center 120 S. St. Joseph St. 

Free Transportation· for NOOMC students to evening session. Guest speaker: Dr. James Cone. For more information on scheduled activities or transportation, stop by the Center for Social Concerns, or call 239-5293. ·space limited. Call for reservation. 
"You know, it didn't really surprise me," said West Vir­ginia head coach Gale Catlett, "I can see doing it to give people some playing time, and it sends a message to your starters. But I felt we had the advantage when that team was in today." 
"We've just got to get it in our heads before the game that we might be going in there," Smith said. "We've got to be ready to do the job when we're called on, and that's part of the game. Even on the bench, we have to be thinking all the time." 
Paddock feels the game ex­perience as a unit helps the blue team give the starters a better challenge in practices. In his particular case, it makes the battle in the paint with Gary Voce a more physical one. 
"Gary and I have been having some great match­ups," he said. "It's great going in and playing against those big people -doing some banging." 
"They've had their positives and they've had their nega­tives," Phelps said. "But more importantly, they've gained confidence in what we're doing and it makes us that much more consistent. It's good to play them as a team, and you've also got times when we're going to need one of them to come in and contribute. Frederick has done that recent­ly, and I think Paddock is really going to come around." 
·­

~********************************************* 
********************************************** 
;t +t­+t­*  TONIGHT EXXON DISTINGUISHED VISITING SCHOLAR SERIES College of Arts and Letters  #* #'*'*  
-£+  University of Notre Dame DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH  -f+  
t  IFemminisft  Cirifticismm  #  
*t  &  ftJhe  ·ILifteir&IrJ  Viirft1lll.es  *#  
t-£+-£+ -£+** -f+ *t  Of JR.e .... JR.e&{!ftUJmg Susan GubarSandra M. Gilbert Professor of English and Professor of English Princeton University Indiana University Title: The Mirror and the Vamp: Reflections on Feminist Criticism Lecture: January 20, 1987, 11:00 A.M., Library Loun&c; Reception: Immediately following the lecture in the Library Lounge ColloquiumWorkshop  ! ..,..i+ : -f+ -f++r * i+  
+t-if'  "No Man's Land": The Place of the Woman Writer in the 20th Century  :*  




~------~-~-----------·---------------------------------------~--------------------------------------..------~--~--------~ 
'JI['~~~~--------------------------------------------------------M•o•n•da•y•'•J-an.u.ar•y•1•9•,1•9•87···p·a-ge•1-1
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


Campus 
12:30-4:30p.m.: Sign-ups for Neil Simon's play, "Biloxi Blues" at the Morris Civic Auditorium. Tickets $12.00, including transportation from the main circle. Play on Friday, Jan. 23 
6:30 p.m.: Meeting, Amnesty Interna­tional, esc 
7:00p.m.: Presentatioll'Reception for all Arts &Letters, Business, and Science stu­dents interested in career opportunities with Leo Burnett Co. (media) are invited to attend, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Happy Birthday, Colleen 

t------;-,r-----------....&.....4~ ..................................L.Jf..lflf-----1 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Turkey Divan Beef Stroganoff Ve~etable Quiche Grilled Pastrami and Swiss Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Ham Steak Hawaiian 
Italian Lasagna 
Fresh Vegetable Quiche 
Deli Bar 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Elec. unit 6 "-Bede" 
10 One-liner 13 Soap plant 14 Kill a bill 15 Frenzy 16 Automaton 17 Formicary 
denizens 18 Ardor 19 Profound 21 Contend (with) 22 Sediment 23 Marries 
secretly 25 SpagheHi e.g. 28 Dye source 30 Hayworth or 
Moreno 31 Russ. news agency 
33 Rickenbacker or Cantor 37 Pithy wit­ticism 39 Most neat 
"'1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc.
41 Bristles 
All Rights Reserved
42 Roman road 44 Narrative 45 Fall beverage 5 Abhor 47 Anoint old 6 Of no-
style (useless) 49 Leatherneck 7 Indicates 52 Ratio words 8 Aleutian isle 54 Mars: pref. 9 Low-growing 55 Profound plants 61 Bill of fare 1 0 Lively dance 62 "-us a child 11 Open-mouthed 
is born" 12 Krupa and 63 Aesopian Hackman ingredient 15 Profound 64 Literary 20 Pampas rope 
collections 24 Fibbed 65 Ruler: suff. 25 Meerschaum 66 Soul 26 Keep­67 Antonio or (persevere) 
Fernando 27 Profound 68 Shelter 29 Bone: pref. 69 Nuzzled 30 -adjudicata 
32 Henri's girl 
DOWN 34 Transaction 1 Make hay 35 Seagirt land 2 Formosa 36 Summer: Fr. 
Strait port 38 Control 3 Defrauds 40 In a tizzy 4 Thanks-43 Isolde's love 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
AL FA IAS N EIR v 0 w • 
R E E D PH A SIE 0 B I E 
AVER lIFE
cin
L I T E R A R Y 0 U T E R -0 N I C E B AIR 8­D E F A C E B E C A LIM E D UNCLeSERT.YALE 
M E L • S W A G G~· N U T 
P R A M.E L I S E P 0 D E S 0 Y lA ~-p I l F E R 
-TOlD D B E GUM­CJl,!ll M E A l
S P A I  N  
L 0 T S 0  F L U C K  M A N E  
A G E S  C I IR ·c  E  E N N A  
P 0 N E  C EID  ED  TSAR  

1/11/87 
46 Subtract 56 Concerning 48 William the 57 Something 
Conqueror e.g. forbidden 49 Parents 58 Rainbow 50 Stadium goddess 51 Fr. historian 59 Point a 53 "Ivanhoe" finger at 
author 60 Pleased 

Neil Simon's Biloxi Blues which performs on Fri, Jan 23; tix $12.00. 
-Wed.-Hot chocolate and skating at the ACC from 11:15-12:15pm. Sponsored by SAB 
·­

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
"He's got one shot left, Murray ­and then he's ours!" 

Monday, January 19, 1987-page 12

SRorts 
Poor shooting costs Irish dearly as Mountaineers claim 57-55 win 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN taking a lead it never relin­season, the Irish scoring woes Sports Editor quished. continued, clicking on just 38 The Mountaineers opened up percent of their shots (16-of-42 
a 12-point lead in the second shooting). 
If you wanted to give Satur­half as the Irish continued to The Mountaineers, mean­day's made-for-television shoot poorly and commit turn­while, shook off their sluggish match up between Notre Dame overs when they got close. start by finding the mismatch. and West Virginia a title, you'd Notre Dame still had a chance "Both of us got off to slow have call it the Big Chill. A five­from three-point land, but only starts," said Mountaineer and-a-half minute cold spell clicked on three-of -eight in the Head Coach Gale Catlett, "and near the end of the first half half in dropping their second in we were both confused. It was enabled the Mountaineers to three games. a matter of us trying to figure get back in the game and take "We just aren't scoring when out each other. Then we wanted the lead. Ultimately, the Irish we need to score," said Irish to go inside. We put (Tyrone) never recovered, dropping a 57-head coach Digger Phelps. Shaw in and then moved 55 decision to the Moun­"We played well when we got (Wayne) Yearwood to guard. taineers. With over 11 down 12, but we should have So we had 6'8", 6'8" and 6'9" minutes gone in the first half, been playing that way the en­across the frontline. They the Irish (now 9-4 on the tire game. Itwasn't a defensive couldn't stay with that." season) had built a 10-4 lead. breakdown, It was an offensive Shaw scored 10 for the Moun­True, the Irish had struggled, breakdown. We're not scoring taineers while J .J. Crawl led the but the Mountaineers (11-3) un­points." Mountaineers with 15. Darryltil that point were worse, going In this the season of inflated Prue had 10 for West Virginiascoreless for seven minutes. scoring, the Irish have scored before fouling out with 9:38 to 
Then, the icy winds that blew more than 65 only three times go. outside found their way to the this season, including an 81-76 "I didn't know he had that hardwood of the ACC. West Vir­overtime victory. Saturday, al­many fouls," admitted Catlett. ginia closed out the half by out­beit against a team that hasn't scoring Notre Dame 20-6 and allowed many points this see COLD, page 8 
DePaul overtakes Irish as women have more problems 
By BRIAN O'GARA the quick DePaul team. been led by the inside scoring for twelve first-half points and We knew that their game plan Sports Writer Losing 33-31 at halftime, the of junior Sandy Botham and a 33-31 DePaul lead. would be to get Vines the bas­Irish suffered a ten-minute sophomore Heidi Bunek. The second half began as the ketball so she could turn and 
Despite battling back strong lapse as DePaul ran up a 57-42 DePaul opened up a quick 11-2 Diana Vines and Sally Ander­face the basket and drive on against adversity on and off the lead after the intermission. The lead before junior Mary Gavin son show. The two DePaul All­us." court, the Notre Dame wo­Irish pecked away at the lead hit three 15-footers and Botham America candidates led the men's basketball team to close the gap to 68-66, then added her only four points of Lady Blue Demons to a fast Down by 13 with 5: 36 remain­dropped their fourth consecu­saw their hopes dashed as the contest to close the gap to start to the second half and a ing to play, the Irish staged a tive game yesterday with a 80-DePaul controlled the final two 15-14. 15-point lead. Anderson, the 5-5 strong comeback behind the 68 loss to DePaul. minutes of play and came away The game turned into a tough senior, made several outstand­hot baseline shooting of fresh­
On Friday, the Irish dis­with a 80-68 victory. defensive battle as the two ing assists and finished the man Annie Schwartz and covered that junior Kathy "We played hard," said DiS­teams kept even until the half. game with 22 points to spark Bunek's short jumpers to pull Brommeland had quit the tanislao. "I think we made a The Irish used a collapsing the Lady Blue Demons. Vines within two, 68-66, with 2:15 left team, citing personal reasons. real good comeback, and I'm zone defense to stop DePaul's used her quickness and in the game. The Irish had an She is the third Irish player to proud of them for that. DePaul leading scorer, Diana Vines strength to weave through the opportunity to tie when leave the team this season, and did what you have to do to beat (averaging 24.0 points a lane and pour in 20 of her 28 DePaul's Ehrhardt missed two the second in the last two us. They packed down their game), while DePaul's quick points in the second half, inlud­free throws, but Vines came up weeks. defense, and their quickness defense forced the Irish to com­ing two pivotal three-point with a key rebound and basket. 
For most of Sunday after­was able to cut off our passing mit several turnovers. plays. Anderson followed with a jump noon, however, the Irish looked lanes." Gavin led the Irish through "DePaul came out spitting shot with one second on the 30­strong against the 11-4 Lady The Lady Blue Demons the final minutes of the half fire and caught us off our guard second shot clock to increase Blue Demons, as Head Coach opened the game with a full­with four points and a bullet a little bit," said DiStanislao. the lead to 72-66 with a minute Mary DiStanislao used her court press and played a pass to Bunek for an easy "That's when she (Vines) left. The Irish were then forced depleted bench and a tough tightly-packed zone, frustrat­layup, while DePaul's Melanee came alive. We tried but we defense to come back against ing the Irish offense which has Ehrhardt hit six of seven shots couldn't contain her quickness. see WOMEN, page 9 
ND and Army battle to weekend series split 
By STEVE MEGARGEE gave their 110 percent. W~ were Sports Writer in excellent shape and went hard the full sixty minutes," 
Between the first and second said Head Coach Lefty Smith. periods of both Notre Dame­A first period goal by Kevin Army hockey games this Markovitz gave the Irish a 1-0 weekend at the ACC, the In­lead before Army tied the game diana Youth Hockey League later in the first period, and Mini-Mites played against each both teams scored two goals in other. It was about the only a very physical second period time all weekend two opposing to keep the score tied after teams met on the ACC ice for forty minutes. 15 minutes without a war Less than two minutes into nearly breaking out. the final period, Bob Bilton 
Throughout the weekend se­scored to give the Irish a 4-3 
ries, the crowds of over 1,300 lead, but the Cadets rallied 
fans saw two of the most excit­back to score a tying power 
ing games of the Notre Dame play goal with less than nine 
season, as both matchups in­minutes to play. 
cluded more than their share Just 36 seconds later, Mike 
of comebacks, clutch goals, Leherr scored the game­
hard-hitting checks, and physi­winning goal for the Irish, and 
cal play before the series ended an insurance goal by Roy 
the only way it could -in a Bemiss nineteen seconds after 
-draw. Leherr's goal ended the scoring Notre Dame won Friday at 6-4. Smith said the team's night's game, 6-4, while Army physical play was a key to the took the Saturday match, 4-2. victory. A Notre Dame shot is turned away in action Notre Dame is now 6-10. "The game was a little slow, this weekend against Army. The Irish were "It was just an excellent se­turned away in their attempt to sweep the series ries. Everyone out there really see SPLIT, page 8 





