VOL. XXI, NO. 95 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1987 
~---------------­
College Briefs -page 5 

the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Hetterich, Cook tickets to vie in SMC run-off 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
Staff Reporter 
Two tickets for the election of Saint Mary's student body officers, senior class officers and junior class officers will face each other in a run-off election to be held Friday in Haggar College Center from 7 
a.m. to 6 p.m. 
None of the tickets received a majority of fifty percent plus one vote, according to current Student Body President Jeanne Heller. 
"I think it's important for everybody that voted today to vote again on Friday. It's going to make a difference. Every 
Commission to decide fate of Corby's on Monday 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The future of the Corby 
Tavern will be decided at a 
hearing of the Indiana Bever­
age Commission in In­
dianapolis on Monday. 
The hearing is an appeal to 
the tavern's liquor license 
denial which was granted by 
the county and state Alcoholic 
Beverage Commissions in No­
vember and December respec­
tively. 
Doug Hannoy, administra­
tive assistant to the commis­
sion, said "This is the last ap­
peal the owners can make to 
the ABC.If the license renewal 
is denied at this hearing, the 
matter can only be appealed to 
a court of law." 
The liquor license depends on 
the facts of each individual 
case presented, according to 
Hannoy. "The commission 
would most likely send the case 
back to the local ABC and let 
the local board decide before 
the state ABC would overturn 
the previous decision," he said. 
"Procedurally those are the things that can happen before we overturn their majority decision," Hannoy added. 
At the actual state hearing, the current owners of the Harold Rowley estate, CTI In­c., and the prospective buyers, Robert and Thomas Przybylinski, will be allowed to present their arguments for the renewal of the license, Hannoy said. 
"Any valid reinforcement will be heard. People opposed to the renewal of the license will be allowed to speak," he said. 
The tavern was closed more than two years ago by the ABC. The refusal to grant renewal of the license has been denied be­cause of problems with un­derage drinking and general 
see CORBY'S, page 4 
vote makes a difference," said Heller. 
In the election for student body officers, the ticket of Sarah Cook, Janel Hamann and 

Election '87 
Jill Winterhalter received 46 percent of the vote. The ticket of Eileen Hetterich, Smith Has­hagen and Julie Parrish received 36 percent of the vote. The third ticket, consisting of Ann Rucker, Ann Reilly and Ann Eckhoff finished with 17 percent of the student vote. 

The election for senior class officers resulted in a run-off be­tween the ticket of Teresa Donegan, Lois Morahan, Angie Teeples and Kate McDevitt and the ticket of Mary Kim Koch, Christine Schymik, Julie Baer and Nancy Kloc. 
The Koch ticket finished first with 43 percent of the vote, fol­lowed by the Donegan ticket with 32 percent of the vote. The ticket of Julie Bennett, Ana Cote, Lorie Potenti and Patti Petro finished third with 23 per-
see ELECT, page 5 

The ObserverA>aul Oeschger
Something stinks 

Physical plant employees emerge from the basement of the Ad­ministration building into the fresh air donning gas masks and headlamps. 


SMC Election Results 
I  
Student Body Tic kets  Percent  
Sarah Cook, Janel HJill Winterhalter  amann,  46  
Eileen Hetterich, Smith Hashagen, Julie Parrish  ..  36  
Ann Rucker, Ann Reilly, Ann Eckhoff  17  


Results of referendum on divestment released 
committee of senators who are for divestment," he said. 
Gardiner said he hopes a committee will be formed by April 10, in order to present a report at the Board of Trustees' May meeting. "We'll recom­mend to the Board of Trustees to divest," Gardiner said. "The results (of the referendum) show support for divestment. 
"I think there would've been more students supporting di­vestment if there was more ad­vertising (of the divestment issue)," said Gardiner. "Eighty students voted from off-campus. They just didn't have enough information," he said. 
Margarita Rose, chairperson of the Anti-Apartheid Network at Notre Dame, said "there was a resolution in the Student Senate for a general referen­dum last October, before the November Board of Trustees meeting." The idea for a stu­dent referendum was first brought up by Student Body President Mike Switek, Gar-
see DIVEST, page 4 By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 

The results of a student ref­erendum on University divest­ment in South Mrica were released late Wednesday by Student Senator Johu Gardiner. 
Election official Dan Gamache announced the results of a referendum on stu­dent opinion of The Observer that will be released today, be­tween 9 and 10 a.m. 
According to Gardiner, 44 percent of the students who voted on the referendum sup­ported University divestment, 30 percent were against divest­ment and approximately 26 percent were undecided. 
Gardiner, who sponsored the referendum, said almost 60 percent of those who professed an opinion on divestment voted "yes" while approximately 41 percent voted "no" on Univer­sity divestment of its holdings in South Africa. "I'm generally pleased," said Gardiner. "I hope to present the results to the Board of Trustees. Hope­fully we'll be able to form a 

Hesburgh discusses ethics in journalism 

sary," Hesburgh said. 

"The other side of that ques­tion is the public's right to know. Well, I'm not sure the public has a right to know... what the confessor should know. Who has the right to know that? I think in that kind of case I would do what is expected. You're ex­pected to tell the normal news," he said. 
"But if it's just the bare facts of what happens, you might as well read it in The Observer or somewhere else. There are some things I would be very, very careful about," said Hesburgh. "Mag-
see HFSBURGH, page 5 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
University President Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh, speaking on ethics in jour­nalism to the staff of The Observer, said he agreed with their decision not to print the names of those charged in the recent drunk-driving acci­dents. 
"I'm glad you didn't print (the names), but there's no way on earth you're going to avoid (people) knowing the names of the drivers of the the cars," Hesburgh said, speaking Wednesday night. 
"I think there's probably a way of just stating it in a bland manner without destroying people. You've got to remember (the driver's) mother and father are going to read that," he said. "!think there's a certain honesty you have to have. You don't sensa­tionalize it, you almost put it out as though you're talking about somewhere else, not here," he said. 

"But I don't see any way in the world you can hide it. I don't think you have to put the names in because everyone involved will know the names and anyone who wants to know the names can find out," said Hesburgh. 
"I didn't know quite how to say it, but there's a virtue you don't hear much about and it's called magnanimity," he said. "And it means some­times that something is more important than getting a Pulitzer Prize. You could print some things that would absolutely destroy somebody or their family or their mar­riage or their business, be­cause you find out things. 
"Magnanimity comes from two Latin words, 'magna' and 'anima' which mean 'big soul' and I think there are probably times when magnanimity would lead you not to publish something that might be to­tally destructive of another human being that's unneces­

~-------------,--------------------------------------------------------------TheOb 
erver Thursday, February 19, 1987 -page 2 
----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­

In Brief 
sible satanic worship location was examined yun;u.•uoLu and Fairfield police Wednesday as part of u~c:un.ru related to the discovery of a woman's """'LT"'r'"'" legs in Indiana. "We don't even know if we have committed here," said Fairfield police Sgt. Ray ..~ ...uoo•u after he took part in the search of a mobile Hounchell said police were trying to connect Monica J.Jc:u•~·"' Lemen, 21, of Cincinnati, whose legs were found Brookville, Ind., church, with the mobile home. uvul"~u.::u said officers found satanic objects and a marble during the search. No one was in the home, he said. 
'""'"-"-''·"'"-Press 
evidence has been found to support the 
..,,.,,.~.u·•--•;::o of lie detectors in screening employees in sensi­says a congressional report due to be . The Department of Defense, which was to screen 7,000 people during the last two years of the Counterintelligence-Scope Polygraph Test 1-'rtutr~m has screened 3,993 people and has not collected uu'.."'.. needed to know whether the tests were ~l't'lir~t"' Denise Dougherty of the congressional Of­ecimo,w~:Y Assessment, which prepared the report. 
assoc:za;~ea Press 
run-off election for the Saint Mary's student officers, senior class officers and junior class officers be held on Friday from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the Haggar 
....vue•~"' Center. -The Observer 
Isis Gallery will install a new piece of art by · Ferguson. She was honored as the 1983 Arts of the Year by the Nebraska Political Caucus. The ,.JU~•u......," opens Sunday and runs through March 13. The Gallery is located on the third floor of the Riley Hall of and Design. Hours are 8:30a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday 
Friday. -The Observer 
Great Hunger Clean Up needs people to help organizing, fundraising and recruiting. Interested stu1aents should attend a meeting tonight at 5:30 at the 
for Social Concerns. -The Observer 

National College Internship Service is now ac'*ll•tin1g applications for Summer 1987 internships. PI~~e1me:nts are available in New York City, Westchester and Island and are individually designed, fully supervised evaluated. For more information contact Career and Pla~e•ne11t Services or National College Internship Service, 
New York Avenue, Huntington, NY 11743 (516) 
-0440.-The Observer 
~IIZ:aiJiein Gerrish will perform a student cello recital ·-•·•-•""• at 7:30 in the Annenberg Auditorium. For further contact Eric Kuehner at 239-6201. ­
I 

~feather 
he winning streak continues in bas etball and in the weather. Mostly sun y today with highs in the low to mid 30s. Fair tonight with lows in the low to mi teens. Cloudy Friday with highs in the low to mid 30s. A . t d P
-ssocta e ress 
........... Rob Luxem Viewpoint Layout ..... Alice Groner .. .. Lisa Tugman Accent Copy Editor .................... .. ypesetter .............. John Connelly .............................. Tracie Fetters ................................... Jose Novas Accent Layout ... Katy Kronenberg ayout Staff....... Eileen Lawrence Campus Scene Editors .. Ed Nolan 
ews Editor........ Ann Kaltenbach Typists...................... Colleen Foy opy Editor ......... Racheal Jarosh ND Day Editor ....... Jane Kravcik ports Copy Editor ... .................. SMC Day Editor ...... Karin Radar ............................. Marty Strasen Ad Design ............. David Culligan iewpoint Copy Editor .............. .. Photographer........ Paul Oeschger . . . . .. .. . . . . . ... . .. . . . . . . . . Brian Broderick 
be Obsernr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



-, 



ND student-run TV station could offer great potential 
The "unknown" candidates, Raul Gonzales and Bill Donaruma, weren't elected to student government's highest office Tuesday, but they did have an interesting idea going into the elec­tion. Starting up a student-run television station similar to WVFI radio, they say, would be an excellent use of student government funds. 
I agree. 
Think of the potential. The station could pro­vide coverage of campus events uniquely dif­ferent from that of the print media or the radio station. Talk shows and news programs could be aired. Even movies could be shown . Moreover, it could also provide an outlet for students who feel like expressing themselves on film instead of on paper or over the air. 
Already Grace Hall has the beginnings of a cable system. The hall uses a remote video camera to film athletic and social events and then broadcasts the tape through a cable sys­tem to every room.. After Sunday mass, resi­dents can see a replay of the most recent bas­ketball game or inter-hall hockey match-up. Lately, the program line-up has expanded to include live call-in shows with dorm celebrities and music videos. One video was a parity of the "This is Notre Dame" clip (usually seen during football half-times) with previously un­seen footage of significant campus landmarks, like the power plant and the watertower. only media worth funding. It seems that, unlike 

other campuses, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
With the purchase of a $1,000 camera and haven't discovered the television yet. A student­VCR, Grace Hall has been able to start its own run television station could go a long way dorm media with the ability to bring a televised toward giving real broadcast experience to bulletin board bringing useful hall news, dinner journalistic-minded students. The use of videos menus, and the shuttle schedule to a large au­and film coverage is a missing dimension in dience. Ed Trifone and Jan Farrell, the providing a full recipe of news and information managers of Grace Vision, have organized a services on campus. staff of 10 students to operate cameras and While revamping the radio reception system make films, indicating that an interest in dorm is a good idea, I would like to see a few television exists. entrepreneurial types take a stab at starting 
I wonder if other dorms could imitate Grace up a similar organization to bring television to Hall's lead? Running cable through dorm the campus. rooms is not a technically difficult problem. It It's a secret of mine that if I were a freshman definitely should be investigated. And certainly again, I'm not sure that I would so readily get the cost of video equipment is within every involved with the campus newspaper. Instead, dorm's budget. starting up a television station might be an ir­
restible opportunity. For some eager underclas­
But an even more exciting idea would be the smen this idea has incredible potential for de­creation of a campus TV station similar to the veloping into a much-needed service. current radio station setup. The station could Tuesday's results showed that the unknown transmit from a central location to campus candidates will remain in obscurity from buildings via a cable system. campus politics. Hopefully, however, their idea 
In a way, the campus is behind the times if of Notre Dame Television will be taken we think that the fund increase for WVFI is the seriously by the incoming student leaders. 


Telemarketing 
Earn ond hove fun. Hours ore Monday and Tuesdav. 5 pm to !fO pm, Sunday, 11 am to 7 pm 
Good pay, short to rndefinite positions Immediate openings. 
MANPOWER 
Temporary staff specialists 320W LaSalle 234-0157 
Show ND or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 
1aoe1 State Ao.ct 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, lndlua 48837 (219) 277-2870 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
Presents a Readers Theatre Production of THE 
FIFTH 

SUN 
by Nicholas A Patricca 
Directed by Frederic Syburg 
Wednesday, February 25, 8:10 pm Thursday, February 26, 8:10 pm Friday, February 27, 8:10pm Saturday, February 28, 8:10 pm Sunday, March 1, 3:10 pm 
WASI11NOTON 11ALL $J Genera I Admission $2 Students, Senior Citizens available Wednesday, Thursday, Sunday Washington 11all Ticket Ofnce 
12 noon·6 pm weekdays Master CarcWisa orders: 239·5957 


The Observer Thursday, February 19, 1987-page 3 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's student leaders to be featured in talk show in senior video 
By KATIE SULLIVAN Staff Reporter 
Thirteen Notre Dame and Saint Mary's senior class leaders held an informal talk show Wednesday at Theodore's in conjunction with the production of the Senior class video. 
The Senior class video com­pany, Special Moments Col­lection (S.M.C.), videotaped these students' reactions and responses to a variety of events occuring during their four years. "We chose these people because we feel they are some of the most recog­nized members of our senior class," said S.M.C. President, Michelle Coleman. 
According to Coleman, the talk show will be only a seg­ment of the senior video. The Special Moments Collection group began video taping senior class events with senior disorientation week 
"moweflS ~ll aQQ occo~ton~~· 
Comein and Browse 

327 Lincolnway 23)~3354 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


I Cat-Rate-Liquors 
Fornaerly Lock's Liquor World 2128 South Bend Ave.-277-3611 
Across from YeUow Submarine 


Peach Schnapp's $5.99 
:Milwaukee's Best $5.29acase 
Store Roan: 9....10p• Moa-Than. 9Ma ll:Mp• Fd. a Sat. 

w....or Cold Be•AvaUable prices. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
and will end taping with the senior formal. 
Included in the talk show were both student govern­ment leaders and a variety of leaders from organizations such as the Pre Law Society, WVFI-AM, The Observer, the Notre Dame band and the Alumni-Senior Club. 
"This was a great group of people to talk with because we all have different things in common. This event will be a nice thing to look back on," said Notre Dame Senior Class President Dave Miklos. 
Mike Switek, Notre Dame student body president added, "It was swell. I'd like to sit around a bit longer and rap with some of these people." 
The topics discussed were based on the students' most memorable college moments. According to Saint Mary's Student Body President Jeanne Heller, her most memorable moments are of 

WE HAVE KEGS 



Popov $8.99 
Our motto is to wheel and deal. Come and talk to us about parties, SYR's, etc. Also cbeck our keg 
the times she got to know and understand those people whom she used to see as, "walking on water". Bruce Lohman, executive assistant to the student body president, said that exploring "the dif­ferent ways students deal with influences from day to day" is his greatest memory. 
Coleman emphasized both the positive and negative ef­fects of the implementation of the alcohol policy. Senior For­mal Co-chairperson, Jim Domagalski, said, "Our class had to deal with the situation after experiencing a 'wet' campus for a year. I think it was a positive thing for our class because it opened the doors to a lot of different ac­tivites and it caused our class to unify a great deal more." 
Rebecca Hetland, student representative to the Saint Mary's Board of Regents added, "It forces us to be more creative." Interna­

(behlnd~s...dootc...) 

cut style 
Qaeea'a Caatle &The Knights , $6student $1.50 cum1olefi• 
AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo •-••r• tile Roval Broaze Saataanl.. Cent... See • tan In ••••••• ...Not Hoare 

$7.99acase Lite $7.99 

Busch $6.29 

tional Student Organization leader, Ronni Karam, said he feels the policy has created a negative effect. "Students are abusing alcohol. It is too dif­ficult to forbid something to college students. I thinks it's a big failure." 
According to S.M.C. Vice President and partner, Karyn Ruesch, seniors will soon be receiving a letter in the mail informing them that the dead­line for ordering the video is March 1. The S.M.C group guarantees that each senior that orders a video will ap­pear in it and they also guarantee that an equal amount of material from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will be included in the video. 
For further information about the senior class video, contact Michelle Coleman, 284-5096. 
Senate panel votes to halt aid being sent to Contras 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 11-9 Wednesday to halt 
U.S. aid to Nicaragua's anti­government guerrillas in the first major test of sentiment in the new Congress toward the Contras. 
However, even supporters of the measure passed by the Democratic-controlled com­mittee conceded it will be vetoed by President Reagan if it eventually passes the Senate and the House. 
"I think we have the votes on the floor to pass it, but of course the president will veto it and I doubt that we can override the veto," said Sen. Claiborne Pell, D-R.I., chairman of the panel and an opponent of Contra aid. No action by the full Senate is 
likely  for  several  weeks,  he  
said.  
The  vote came  after  more  

than three hours of debate in which both sides repeated their arguments favoring or oppos­ing the program. 
"This is one of the most cru­cial war-peace issues we will face," said Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., a strong opponent of Contra aid. 
Sen. Terry Sanford, D-N.C., another opponent, said Reagan is following "a very dangerous and likely unsuccessful policy." 
However, Sen. Paul Trible, R-Va., noted that the Contras have just begun receiving offi­cial U.S. help again after a two­year hiatus and said, "We ought to play this hand over the next year or so" and see if they can win. 
The program has been highly controversial ever since the Contras, with secret U.S. help, began fighting Nicaragua's leftist government six years ago. Congress banned U.S. mil­itary aid for two years but nar­rowly reversed itself last fall and voted for $100 million worth of aid, including $70 million in military help, for the current fiscal year. 

Corby's 
continued from page I 
defacement of the surrounding area. The present owners of the tavern need the license renewal in order to sell Corby's assets to the prospective buyers. 

Divest 
continued from page 1 
diner said. "IfI wanted to pres­ent something to the Board of Trustees, I had to get how the students feel," he said. 
Rose said the Anti-Apartheid Network did not participate in the referendum. "We ourselves had planned to advertise (the apartheid issue) after spring break, during National Weeks of Anti-Apartheid Action," Rose said. "The National Weeks are held at times which commemorate important events in the anti-apartheid movement." Rose said the events will be held from March 21 to April 4. 



Thursday, February 19, 1987 -page 4 
R agan, chief of staff q estioned on fate of R gan's future plans 

WA HINGTON -President Reag n said Wednesday that it's u to Donald Regan whe­ther e will remain as White Hous chief of staff, but said he ne er tries to talk anyone out of leaving. 
But Regan indicated he wasn' going anywhere. 
Qu tioned about fresh repor s that Regan may be on the ay out, Reagan told repor ers, "This is up to him. . When the people that I've a ked to come into govern­ment feel that they have to retur to private life, that's their usiness." 
Re gan, during a picture­takin session with Israeli Prim Minister Yitzhak Sha ir, was asked whether his com ent should be interpreted as m aning that Regan was, in fact, eaving the White House. 
"T at's a 'No answer,"' he repli d. "That's not an an­swer" 
Re an, confronted by ques­tions shouted by reporters cove ing Shamir's departure cere ony at the White House 
r 

diplomatic entrance, smiled and pointed at Reagan, saying, "It's up to him." 
As he and the president walked toward the Oval Office, Regan was asked again, by reporters some distance away, if he was leaving. He turned and replied, "no.',' 
Under questioning during the photo session with Shamir, Reagan scoffed at a report in Wednesday's editions of The Washington Post, which said his wife, Nancy, had not been speaking to Regan, and that she had been pushing for his ouster. 
"Oh, for heaven's sake," the president replied. "No. Not true, and nobody's getting fired.'' 
Regan's management of the White House has been criticized by some Republican members of Congress and others since the Iran-Contra af­fair began unfolding last No­vember, and there have been widespread calls for his resig­nation. 
~g~g~g~~~g~~,, 
~ ' o~J> ~
*-~-~-~""' I

I . .,, , ~ ~
~~.s' 
~ ~ ~ INVITES YOU! ~
I TWO FOR ONE NIGHTS: I 
~ THURSDAYS, FRIDAYS & SUNDAYS ' ~ r• 6pm -llpm ., 

~ MIDNIGHT M"-DNESS: 
I 
~ WARNING•••DON'T GE-T CAUGHT I ~ WITH YOUR FAJAMAS ONI ~ 
~ SATURDAYS -MIDNIOHT to 4AM ~ 
~ Ski World Invites you to experience the atmosphere ~~ ~ of "Moonlight" Skiing. ~ 
~ YOU'VE OOT TO SKI IT TO BELIEVE IT ~ 
~ SKI WORLD 14547 N. MAIN STREET ~ r• BUCHANAN, MICHIGAN 49107 a1 
I (616) 695-3847 ~ 


I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 



EVERYONE LOVES THE LOOMER! 
You are tlie .Loomer tliat we've a{ways dreamed of! 


: Have you tried a BAHAMA MAMA yet? : 
+ Come in and pick up your free ++ Bahama Mama recipe card! ++ Corktowne has all the ingredients. + 
: CORKTO~E: + Case of Busch.............$6.99 LJOUORS,INc. + Case of Bud I Bud Light. ... $8..39 1841§0UTH BEND AVE. t
• 
.30 pack of Stroh's........ $8.99 sr.reROM123. '•mllewesrotM•rlln·aSupe<trJMQr 
: Busch half-barrel keg..... $25.99 277-6805 : 
:**** * * * * * * * * * * * *'***** ~ 
* . * 


: DISTINGUISHED STUDENT ~ 
* * 

: AWARD ~ 
* * 
:* Once again the Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nomina-*~* tions from February 10 to February 28 for their annual Distinguished * : Student Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor ~ : an outstanding senior student at the University based on the following :* criteria: * : 1. Service to Notre Dame t 
* * 
: 2. Service to the Community : 
* *
! 3. Good Academic standing ! 
*

*Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association office on the 2nd ~ ~ floor of the Administration Building, University Ministry offices -Badin * : Hall and Memorial Library and the Center for Social Concerns. : 
* * 
:Nominations must be submitted to the Alumni Association by February 28. ~ 
***************************************************~~* 
BUY OBSERVER 

itwort<s... for 
ALL OFUS 









CHEERLEADING 
Questions? 

Contact Tom Swaykus at 283-3198



CHEERLEADING 
or the Athletic office at 239-6107 

Join the Irish Football Team on their way to a NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP! Potential 1987-88 Cheerleaders/Leprechaun must attend a mandatory organizational meeting Sunday, Feb. 22, 7 p.m at the Football Auditorium (A.C.C. --Gate 2) 
Requirements will be discussed and applications for tryout registration will be distributed. Be a part of the IRISH TRADITION. 
unlbadwau
• 


CHEERLEADlNG CHEERLEADING 
~-------­
The Observer Thursday, February 19, 1987-page 5 
. 
Law students present mock final arguments 
By LIZ PORTER News Staff 
Four senior.Notre Dame law students presented a showcase of final arguments Feb. 13 in conjunction with the 37th an­niversary of the law school's moot court competition. 
In the auditorium of the Cen­ter for Continuing Education, the four finalists from the Notre Dame moot court com­petition displayed the argu­ments they recently presented at the regional moot court com­petition in Milwaukee, Wis. 
The presentation of oral arguments allowed observers to watch the law school's na­tional representatives argue a case in a mock appellate set­ting before a panel of state and federal judges. 
Given a hypothetical case, the students formed two oppos­ing teams consisting of Carol Kucera and Bradford Purcell as counsel for the petitioners, and Christina Smith and Joanne Thomas as counsel for the respondents. 
A panel of three justices from various court systems heard the arguments, providing com­ments for the students after the presentation. The Honorable Carol Mansmann, an appellate justice from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, presided over the panel. The Honorable John Mowbray, Jus­tice, Supreme Court of Nevada, and the Honorable Sanford Brook of St. Joseph Superior Court were also present. 
The Notre Dame moot court competition, which began in 1950, provides second year law students an opportunity to par­ticipate in a series of mock tri­als, said Joanna Johns, execu­tive director of the 37th Annual Final Argument. 
According to Johns, students in these trials present an oral argument and a written brief for review by a panel of law school professors and local at­torneys. Students who chose to compete enter a progression of elimination rounds which con­tinue throughout their second 
College Briefs 
USC students are more sexist than their counterparts at California State D.-Northridge, says a study by USC professors Harry Brod and Gerald Jones. The study also found that students enrolled in gender-studies courses lowered their sexist attitudes more than those in general education courses. 
Student council members at Ohlone College want to require a 2.5 grade-point average and better attendance for the privilege of holding office. Under the plan, an officer with four unexcused absences from student council meetings could be impeached. 
Pulitzer Prize Winning Playwright Edward Albee will join the University of Hous­ton's faculty. Albee, whose works include "Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolfe" and"A Del­icate Balance," will serve as a distinguished professor of drama. 
year of law school, Johns said. At the review of the panel, she said, four law students are se­lected as the top competitors of the second year class. 
The top second year students move on as third year students to represent the Notre Dame law school in regional and na­tional competitions, said Johns. Academic credit is given to those second year students who participate, she said, and all preparations must be made by the students without the coun­sel of professors. 
According to Johns, first year law students do not compete in the moot court trials, but are required to participate in an appellate brief writing and oral exercise as a part of their aca­demic curriculum. 
For the 1986-87 academic year the third year teams con­sisted of Kucera-Purcell, and Smith-Thomas, who 
represented Notre Dame at the regional competitions in Mil­waukee, according to Johns. Al­though both teams were eliminated after the first round of arguments, she said the team of Kucera-Purcell received high marks on the brief writing exercise. This score is combined with the oral argument score to constitute the total score given to partici­pants, said Johns. 
Sponsored by the Young Lawyers Committee. of the As­sociation of the Bar of the City of New York, the winners of the regional competition proceed to the national competition in New York City, Johns said. Notre Dame competes in the regional competition, which encompasses a large area of mid-western states. This region constitutes the largest moot court conference in the nation, she added. 
According to Johns, teams competing against Notre Dame included law schools at Loyola, Valflaraiso, University of Wis­consin, University of Illinois, Indiana University, and Northwestern. 
The theft of unmarked exams for a Medical Genetics course at the University of Toronto has left the grades of 245 students in limbo. The exams were stolen from the profes­sor's locked office over winter break. Now stu­dents might have to take another test or accept mid-term marks as their exam marks. 
The Kansas University student senate is sponsoring a free cab service for KU students who've had too much to drink. Under contract with the student senate, a local cab company gives rides until 3 a.m. weeknights and weekends. The senate l{ets chare:ed $2.50 a ride. 
Bucky's Bleacher Creatures have invaded the University of Wisconsin's men's basketball games this season. Members of the student booster club receive red t-shirts and food coupons from area fast-food restaurants in return for their enthusiastic (and loud) sup­port of the team. 


Desburgh 
continuedfrompage 1 
nanimity is a great virtue, but then again, you've got to do your job." 
"If you were to ask me for one virtue or ethical device someone in journalism ought to have, I'd say get the truth," 
Hesburgh said. "It isn't easy always. That. question of truth, I think, in a way, is the over-arching ethical problem of journalism. If you want the truth, you have to go to people who know the truth." 
Hesburgh commented on the values of the profession. "How do you approach a sub­ject like ethics in journalism? There's ethics in everything. There's ethics to being a housewife, there's ethics in being a priest, there's ethics in running a newspaper, there's ethics in everything," he said. "You go down through a whole list of virtues. They're all the same virtues, but the problem is they've got to be applied," Hesburgh said. 

Thanks to movies that romanticize military life, applications are up more than 10 percent at the nation's three big military academies: West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy. Officials also at­tribute the surge to increasing patriotism, the increasing social stature of the military, and the lure of a free education. 
Nudes are "Unbearable" in Antelope Valley College life drawing courses. The school's board turned down a dean's proposal for a Life Drawing course because it would involve nudes. Officials say the class would entail too many special requirements, like lock­ing the door and keeping students under 18 out. 
Auditions for the GONG SHOW 
sponsored by the FAC 
All ND!SMC students may audition 
Winner will receive 
DINNER with LOU HOLTZ 
Sign up with FAC rep. 
Deadline for signups is Feb. 20th 
or call 2507 
L...___BU_V_O_B_SE_R_V_ER_C_L_A_SS_IF_IE_D_S____jl ~~~!mpoge 
1 
• 

a un1que opportunity for 

Math/Science 
(M.ajors/Minors/ Aptitudes) 


For you and for the world. Peace Corps will combine your education with training to prepare you for a volunteer position in: • Education • Fisheries • Health • Agriculture • Forestry or other areas. You'll meet new people,learn a new language, experience a new culture and gain a whole new outlook. And while you're building your future, you'll be helping people in developing countries learn the basics of technological advancement. 
See our free film Thursday, Feb 19th in the Center for Social Concerns beginning at 7 p.m. Interviews March 3 & 4 Placement Office-sign up now 


cent of the vote . 
According to Heller, a record 70 percent of the junior class voted in this election for senior class officers. 
The ticket of Christy Wolfe, Michelle Agostino, Tera Ster­nitzke and Lisa LaMalfa will face the ticket of Rose Pietrzak, Anne Palomaro, Barb Gullifor and Katy Burns in a run-off election for junior class officers. Both tickets tied with 33 percent of the vote. The third ticket of Julie Wagner, Kelly Glavin, Dawn Meyer and Robyn Malone earned 28 perent of the vote. 
Sophomore turnout for the election of junior class officers was 54 percent, Heller .said. 
Forty three percent of the freshman class turned out to elect Megan Hines, Mary Beth Blajda, Deirdre Milon and Lisa Catenacci for sophomore class offices. Their ticket received 59 percent of the student vote, the majority needed to win the election. The ticket consisting of Doreen Brown, Dawn Koutek, Patti Weed and Col­leen McCarthy received 36 per­cent of the vote. 
Heller praised the Saint Mary's students who voted this year. She attributed the high turnout to the three tickets, saying that they had renewed interest in student government elections. 
•

tew 
oint 
Thursday, February 19, 1§87-page 6 
rrogate motherhood leads to many conflicts 
8 months old, blonde, and the daughter of William £.Jil~£.Cl:u~,.u Stern. She is also the u"'"'"'"q> of Mary Beth Whitehead and 
having only one set of par­norm? 
on second thought 

BabyM. is different. ''Melis­or "Sara" Whitehead is the a surrogate mother arrange­the Sterns and the Several months ago, provided his sperm and v'"''"''"l' Mary Beth Whitehead $10,000 "'"r·"'"'"'"' as a surrogate mother. , right? Mary Beth would be and the Sterns would be parents of a custom-
Beth gave the baby to the days after the birth. But u"'l:>61<•u to have her back a day later. in all compassion, returned Mary Beth before they sent and five police officers to 
ttP,~nPr;ltlnn of a mother, which was not of the contract, Mary Beth handed M. out the rear window to her The family fled to Florida three months, the Sterns found Whiteheads and took Baby 
M. back New Jersey, where her fate 
Ju"'•-•u•ou in a court room. continues, New Jersey Judge Harvey Sarkow 
and lawyers waiting for 
, which will set a precedent mother cases. Surrogate is neither permitted nor 

vu•un<Fu by law. Five hundred babies born to surrogate mothers decade. None have gone to 
aJ•uv,.6 u three known disputes privately with the biolog­"""'th••r keeping the baby. 
case involve contract or ""c~tn,iu., What rights, if any, does mother have to the baby to sell? Should joint custody privileges be considered? atiE~sti1ons of legality are the focus 
M. case. 

"People treat it like we are fighting 
over a car," says Mary Beth. "But 
she's not a possession, she's part of 
me." 
Right, Mary Beth. Baby M. is not a 
possession. But you should have . thought of that before you put her up for sale. And as far as treating Baby M.like a c;ar, you're way off. You can't even buy a decent car for $10,000 these 
days. 
Costs aside, there is still the question 
of custody. 
"I am the father," says William Stern 
"and I want my daughter back." He's 
right. A father should be with his 
daughter. 

"I have three children, and two of 
them cannot see their sister," says 
Mary Beth. "I don't think that's fair." 
She's right, too. It's not fair. But nei­
ther is contracting QUt a baby's life and 
then playing tug-of-war with it. It 
doesn't matter who wins in court. The 
biggest loser is Baby M. 
And where there's a loser, there must 
be a winner. This time it's Noel P. 
Keane. Keane is a Michigan attorney 
who founded the surrogate motherhood 
business over ten years ago. He set-up 
the contract for Baby M. 
Keane has made more than spare 
change in the baby-selling business. 
Just as the surrogate mother receives 
$10,000 for her services, Keane collects 
$10,000 for arranging the surrogate 
agreement. 

Of course, profit isn't Keane's only 
motive. Keane is very concerned with 
the welfare of the mother and the baby. 
Throughout the Baby M. trials, Keane 
has spent much time on the beaches of 
the Bahamas, obviously worrying 
about the case. In fact, in the past, when 
a surrogate mother has lost the baby 
in a miscarriage, Keane has given her 
$1,000 for her trouble. What a caring 
guy. 

So what's the solution for the Baby 
M. case? Is it wrong for a surrogate mother to want the baby she gave birth to? Is it wrong for a father to want the baby that is genetically his? Perhaps, the question should not be one of con­tract or custody, but whether the prac­tice of surrogate motherhood is ethical in the first place. 
America has enough homeless children without creating a baby­selling industry to increase the supply. In 1982, 274,000 children were in foster care. Only 141,861 were adopted. That leaves over 132,000 children seeking parents, far more than needed to satisfy the couples looking to surrogate 
/FOIJR5TIJIJfOFSElF-/3XCUSCM&? 
£STEtM 15 7lJ fJE TAK-l.Of?l) flUNK.­
8& STILL, 

E:N5fRJOIJ5L:I,IAI~ RA ~Y.5 
fiE 0 5HE­
{J()e5?
CANTAFFO!W 70813 fie fiA$ TO 
5E&NMA 8/JNCH 5PE.AK. 7D 
/ b&VIL../
OFFRUJT-I..{)()P5! 7HI5LA/7"1. 
\
'\. 

mothers as a way to become parents. 
For now, Judge Sartow will have to decidle the fate of Baby M. I can only look 1to the future. If babies continue to be bought and sold in the marketplace, this is what I see: 
A woman is walking down Hollywood Boulevard wearing a billboard: "Womb For Rent. $10,000 For 9 Months. No Emotional Attachment. Guaranteed. Noel P. Keane, contrac­tor." 
Carol Brown is a junior American Studies major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
[.__P_.o_.B_o_xQ__] 
Fun is the purpose in interhall basketball 
Dear Editor: 

The game of basketball requires only two things: some level of skill and also sportsmanship. Obviously the skill fac­tor is not as important to us as is the issue of sportsman(woman)ship. 
The purpose of our basketball team is to gather together a group of people, most of whom lack previous experience on the court, to compete in the NVA league. and most importantly to have a good time. The level of skill that we as a team have encountered in the last few weeks has been impressive. 
Our problem is not with the level of skill, but rather with the poor sports­manship of our opponents. Please don't mistake us for sore losers, for that is not the case at all. We simply feel that some of the situations we have faced in our games have been badly handled by our opponents and have been the cause of some disillusionment within our team. "It's not important whether you win or lose, it's how you play the game." When you're behind by more points than you care to remember and your opponents are fast-breaking on you and continuing to run a full court press in the fourth quarter when the game is obviously in hand, you begin to wonder whether or not the other team is aware of just how they "play the game." Worst of all these people don't even look as though they're having fun, which is the whole point of inter hall ath­letics, or so we thought. Hey you guys, Lighten up! We know how to lose and have fun doing it but do you know how to win? 
To the teams we have already faced, good luck during the rest of you season. To whose we have yet to face, we won't be hard to recognize. We'll be the ones that will be determined. Determined that is, to do our best, and have fun while we're at it. 
Pat Hall Stanford Hall 

fil[S N,O.P.Q,R,S.T,U,V... 


Garry Trudeau 
fJM... 8llR!JAi?A OH, 605H, I~ 
ANN, IF YOU SO SORRY. 
CANTCONTf?l){... IU HAV8 
YOIJRBA/?9ARJAN... A TAtJ< / /AI/TII\ filM. 
Quote of the day 

"Winning isn't everything. Because you don't win doesn't mean you haven't accomplished something. The key is in the ef­fort. If you give all you can, then you've won." 
Julius Erving Chicago Tribune January 18, 1987 
General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan 
uu,•.,, ••,., is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Ma:·y Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin ad~nihi:stratinn of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ MJrgie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton 
r.ornm•~ntatrliA~ letters and the Inside Column present the vle"'s of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar 
avaiilab,le to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 

Accent 
Thursday, February 19, 1987-page 7 
Seniors sing the blues 
PAUL-ANDREW CIMINO 
features writer you have to get lucky. Actually and shaking knees. £21,573,022). Some were nice. 
I will consider myself lucky If I "Leave It and go, worm." Others, well. .. I walked Into 
Went to my advisor. He can just get an Interview The impersonal machine dis­one and the guy asked to see said, 'I'd like to help you son through the ofnce. misses me without so much as my nngernails and if I wore but you picked the wrong You (take note, I use 'you' the whirr of a disk drive. Now braces when I was a kid. mCf}or.' I keep on trying. Don't because I seem to be excluded comes the tough part. Prostrate They'll do anything to cut you know what to do. See, there from this group) can be Invited In the mud, ants crawling out and you have to make ain't no cure {or the Job Search to Interview with a company through my hair, eyes averted, yourself a viable and Blues. N Sung to, Summertime after they have perused your I ask. "0 great, powerful, and worthwhile product. The best Blues proflle, or you can get one wondrous Computer God, can I way to do this -Lie. Excuse me, (with apologies) through the famous computer please have an Interview with bend the truth. 
I 
lottery system. I've had no luck Paine Webber? I put the choice An example: A friend of mine 've been trying. rather with the invltatlonals and when as a priority and have only had had an Important Interview with 
desperately, to nnd a job for I wanted to Include a twenty one interview all year. I've been a firm he adored. The problem quite some time now. It Is not with the proflle they wouldn't waiting for this one your wor­he faced was that his grade 
easy, unless you happen to be let me. So, that was the end of shipfulness. Please, I beg you." point average was not as high an accountant In which case that. The lottery, on the other Suddenly the disk drive as he would have liked It to be. you're probably already hand­hand, has created some other whlrrs. The letters are more So, he adjusted It on his proflle 
Ing out new business cards to problems. sedate. form. When the Interviewer, 
all your friends, and making I have been having recurring "You don't seem to under­who saw his transcript noticed 
them feel totally worthless. I nightmares about the computer stand. There are only 25 spots the discrepancy, he asked, "Ex­
bet you guys are on a real system. I find myself dressed available and I have requests cuse me Pete, (not his real 
power trip. Well to tell you the. in a loincloth with beads, paint from 53 million people. In name, of course) but your 
truth, I don't care. Really, I on my face, and carrying fruit 
other words, you have about as grade point average on your don't at all. You can go and... on. my head. Probably some­transcript seems to be substan­
much chance as Thomas Jef­Sorry about that. Too much where in Guatemala (a great ferson." tially lower than It Is on your pressure. I digress. place to work). Trudging "He's dead, 0 high and proflle form." 
These days I'm trying every through the dense brush nlled mighty." "Well," my friend replied, "To method short of armed robbery with snakes and mosquitos I "Right. .. worm." tell the truth, I found a new have luck; (It has been considered) to break Into an open area con­The screen goes blank as I way to ngure it out." 
Well, life Isn't all bad and I'll coerce someone Into, uh, nn­taining a temple complex In raise my tear-nlled eyes and To make a long story short, say one thing: If Senior Bar dlng a job. Thankfully, at Notre the shape of a Macintosh com­the Interviewer loved his
begin yelling "No. NO. ever does hold a rejection let­
Dame we are fortunate to be puter. NNOOOooo." originality, they had a great ter night, I'm gonna be nrst on gract:d with the presence of The display screen flashes a laugh about the whole thing.
About this time I wake cov­line. For now I can't help but that omce of omces, Career vacant "Who are you?" in ten­ered In sweat and realize It's and he got a respectable offer. keep thinking that I should 
and Placement Services. A foot letters as I cower in fear. time to start looking at fast So there. Needless to say, If I have been an accountant. And 
great group of people with a "It Is your humble servant food restaurants. tried that one, the Interviewer every time I do, I realize that 
lot ofjob hunting know-how, Paul, 0 great Computer God, So far I have gotten a few would probably call every other there just "ain't no cure for the but that can't get you a job. It with a sacrlncial offering." I Interviews. Not with PaineWeb­nrm In the business and black­Job Search Blues." Good will give you a chance and then reply through chattering teeth ber though (waiting list list me. Ahhh, some people Luck everybody. 
Hometown 
wanted to open up a hotel here In South Bend and felt that this 
ZACK HUDGINS 
features writer 
Searching for homey atmosphere, 
B 
kind of hotel would do the ed and breakfast Inns best. "A regular hotel wouldn't started In Europe when a get by the city council and we
good breakfasts &rest?
family had a few extra rooms wanted to nt In nearby the 
bathroom with shower, vanity, also offers facilities for such refrigerator, wet bar, color tele­things as wedding parties. vision with cable and remote -~ .:.>-..:::.~""""' . . . :.: . • . ., "r•:if v<.;.; . " • -·" 
control. The rooms are nlled The Jamison Inn looks like 
with original artwork by local .,.;..,.,-.,....-:. _;..~ .-·--~~ ·.':;,.....--.-: :~ -::-:.~". : ·."'"''· }·<r:'".···.·.-. . ·¥· .••.• -~-;: ·-the best Idea to come Into 
artist Jack Appleton. "Most South Bend In a long time. It 
Jameson Inn Is a new twist to the hotel scene. The Observer/Damlan Chin
hotels today just use prints of offers a home away from home artwork but with our originals each containing two queen size Notre Dame's graduation but will be for entertaining guests. atmosphere for any traveler we have recieved nice comple­beds. The inn also offers that won't happen. The twenty 1973 Notre Dame graduate that comes to South Bend. The ments." said Innkeeper John twelve single rooms containing four rooms now under con-Pat McGraw came up with the football fan, conventloner, Stratlgos. king size beds. The Jamison structlon will all be two room Idea not from Europe where It business person or tourist will 
Right now the Inn has four­Inn was hoping to have an-suites. One room will contain originated but from his home el'\]oy the hospitality offered by teen double rooms for rent other 24 rooms available by the bed and the other room state of Colorado. Pat McGraw the Jamison Inn. 



Thursday, February 19, 1987-page 8 

half, he led Notre Dame with only seven points on 2-of-13 "It was a tough win, but he did not want to be consid­10 points, several coming on shooting from the field. that's college basketball," said ered as a potential candidate long jumpers from the "We had a lot to gain, but not Phelps. "The team's are so for the coaching job next year baseline. much to lose," said Quinn. "At balanced these days. We just after his one-year contract s oring 14 points and leading Center Frank Williams led the half, I told the players that wanted to win, and we were runs out. Quinn, who replaced t e team with eight rebounds. the Rams with 12 points, while we had 20 minutes of basketball able to do that. Now we just former head coach Tom e was especially impressive forward Joe Franco chipped in left and not to celebrate. I was have to move on to the next one Penders after Penders left at i the first half, as the Irish 10. Especially impressive for proud that they played hard, Saturday at Utah." the start of the season, ex­s ruggled at the foul line (3-of-the Irish defense was the way but we've merely come close IRISH ITEMS -Fordham plained that "when the losses 7 and in the offensive­it held guard Greg Pedro (who too often. A win is what we head coach Quinn announced don't gnaw at you anymore, it's r bounding department. In the was averaging 14.3 points) to wanted." yesterday before the game that time to · get out." 

NOTICES 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
PERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 

PRO-TYPE Q ellty worlc, word processing 
e ellabillty, reasonable $. 277-5833. 
A one interested in working on the Vr lyak campaign lor mayor of Chicago ca call John at 3558 or Kim at 4440 
p ACE CORPS is on campus and 1 king lor interested Srs. to work over­s s in Afrtca, Asia, and Latin America. L rn about the exciting possibilities that d elopment work offers. See a free film 
o Peace Corps. today, 7:00 pm at the C nter for Social Concerns. 

LOST/FOUND 
L ST: GOLD BRACELET WITH M ROON BIRTHSTONE ON MONDAY, F BRUARY 9, AT BRIDGET'S. GREAT S NTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, C LL JILL AT 277-8390 OR WILLIE AT 27 -4481. 
W ULD THE PERSON WHO ACCIDEN­T LLY TOOK MY BOOKS FROM S UTH DINING HALL LAST WEEK P EASE LEAVE AT LEAST MY NOTES A D MY ADDRESS BOOK SOME­W ERE SO I CAN GET THEM BACKII N INQUIRIES WILL BE MADE. THANK 
y u 
L STat JR. Formal: Grey Kuppenheimer T eed. It is my roommate's and I want to live with him next year so I need ~ 
k. FOUND at JR. Formal: Grey T eed. Call David at 1 454 
L ST: One blue ski jacket in the pool­' m of LeFortun on 2113 iffound, please c I 2547 or return to 225 howard. There is Va lentines card in the pocket with m name and address 
L ST: A pair of black gloves in rm 222 C shing. Please call Rick at 3252 if to nd. 
t: Monet peart bracelet at Tri-Mil Ball or between PE & South Dining Hall. High S ntimental value. II found please call X 84. 
L ST: Friday night 2113 at the ACC a s of keys. They are on an NO key chain a have a small penknife attached. PI ase call t242 -they are very impor­ts t. 
F und in Stepan Center: Black Caslo jog­gl g watch. To Claim call J.C. or Brian. £1193. 
F UNO: Small paar1 bracelet at THea's frt ay. Call 3758 to identify. 
L ST: A SMALL BLACK PURSE AT TAl M L. NEED KEYS AND 1.0. PLEASE C LL MARIA AT 284-4277 IF FOUND. 
L ST: GUMBY KEY CHAIN WITH 5 K YS-CALL 1670 
L ST: FINANCE BOOK. HOPEFULLY A CIDENTALLY TAKEN AFTER Fl ANCE TEST LAST THURSDAY IN P OF.CONWAY'S1:15CLASS.IFYOU H VE IT PLEASE CALL X1852, BILL. 
F und: a winter jacket, on ACC court a er N.Carolina game C II 3266 to identify and claim 
L ST: LADIES GOLD WATCH WITH 
C RCULAR FACE, SOMEWHERE BE­
EEN GALVIN AND WALSH 
A OUND LUNCHTIME TUES(17th). IT 
S A X-MAS GIFT IF FOUND, 
P EASE CALL 2646. 
M SSING: Were you at LNO last Friday, dl you pick up a blue NO sweatshirt W'll r ball and a St. Zahm inscription on 
H. If so call Mike at 4335 or return to 1 59 

lassifieds 
FOR RENT 
ROOMMATE WANTED ASAPI HICKORY VLG. $151»no. CALL CLAIRE 272·5366 
ROOMMATE WANTED ASAPI 
HICKORY VLG. $151»no. 
CALL CLAIRE 272·5366 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS ... Summer, yr.round.Europa, S.Amer.,Australia, Asia. All fields. $900-2000 mo.Sightseeing.Free info.Write IJC, PO BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
NEED RIDE TO GRAND RAPIDS MICH. FOR FRI. FEB 20 CALL BRIAN £4122 
HELPI Need ride to IU or Indy this wknd 2-20. Will share $. Call Paul at £2466. 
NEED TO BUY MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PRINTER & SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233-7722 OR 239-4478. 
AIDE OFFERD TO CLEV. 2-20-2-22 255­1508 
I need a ride to MILWAUKEE for the NOTRE DAMEtMARQUETIE gamellll Please help me and call Ann-Marie at 4015. 
FOR SALE 
Comfortable ranch for sale by owner-1 mi north of NO library 3 bedrooms,2 baths-low taxes Call 277-1 907 
OVATION 6 STRING ELEC'ACOUSTIC W.CASE $325 277-3621 6-9 PM 
2 AIATIX-S. BEND-BUFFALO FEB 20-22; $150 EA. CALL 288-7560 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. 
i-iei:Pi.'Ai:uMNi.wii:i:it.i<3.ro.i<ii:i:.FoR 
4 DEPAUL GA'S. SAVE A LIFEI CALL MARTY-1471 
································································ 
Need DePaul GA's CJ 1382 
IS THERE ANYBODY OUT THERE? with two (2) DePaul GAs? Will pay$ Bill x1460 
rH"ii···i3·uscii...Neiios···:;·..(3;;::s···;;c;R 
DEPAUL2456 
................................................................ 
HELP! I NEED 2 STUDENT OA GA TICKETS TO THE No-MIAMI GAME ON THURSDAY, MARCH 5. IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL MARY AT 283· 3726. 
................................................................ 
1 need a group of 2,3, or 4 DEPAUL GAs CALL 2073 
................................................................ 
Need 2 tickets lor DePaul game. Will pay $$$. Call Nellie at 3602. 
J.C. NEEDS 2 GA'S AND 3 STUDENT TICKETS FOR DEPAUL OR HE'LL HAVE TO CANCEL ALL HIS CREDIT CARDS AND SEND BACK ALL HIS JEWELRY. PLEASE CALL 2456. 
HELP ME GET A FREE PLANE TICKET HOME. SELL ME 2 DE PAUL GAs OR 4 STU TIX. 284-4380 KATHY 
I NEED 4 DE PAUL GAs TAMMY 284­4057 
................................................................ 
NEED 1 DEPAUL STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET CALL MIKE 2180 
Attention May Gradsll I am willing to ex­change hotel rooms lor graduation tick­ets. Seats must be In the dome. Call Robert 1546 
HI. I NEED 6·8 GA TIX FOR BROOKLYN B-BALL GAME. IF YOU HAVE ANY PLEASE CALL TIM:283-1710 
FOR SALE BONJOVI MARCH 4th UIC PAVILION, CHICAGO CALL DAWN 284-4171 
PERSONALS 

NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANGIORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
BIG APPLE WHO LOVES N.Y.? I LOVE N.Y. DO YOU LOVE N.Y.? 
BIG APPLE BROADWAY MADISON AVE 42ND ST 
BLOOMINGDALESI 
BIG APPLE 
BIG APPLE 
WHO LOVES N.Y. 
BIG APPLE 

Beat the Winter blues with the beat of the Islands, monl """REGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO""" This and every Thursday, Come here your favorite reggae tunes spun by Jah Dave of WVPE's 88 REGGAE STREET. SPECIAL ON RED STRIPE JAMAICAN BEER ""REGGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO""" 
What would SPRING BREAK be like without your RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS You know you want them. You know you need them. WELL COME AND GET THEM! CALL TIM AT 1801, RM. 324 DILLON! "THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN" 
SOPHOMORES! SOPHOMORES! 
SOPHOMORES I 

Career Ia a MAJOR decision. II you 
haven't decided on one and feel un­
prepared to deal with Fell Registration 
which begins April 23rd, consider at· 
tending a career decision-making 
workshop. Workshops will be held 
from February 23rd through March 
5th. Call 239-7338 lor details. 
"SUMMER INTERNSHIPS: "TECHNIQUES AND RESOURCES TO USE." PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT 8:30 p.m. 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WEL· COME. 
"SUMMER INTERNSHIPS: TECH­NIQUES AND RESOURCES TO USE." PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT 8:30 p.m. 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WEL· COME. 
DRUIDS: Call4074 for robe assignments and wor­ship times 
Stonehenge lives ... 
MARDI GRAS BALL Friday, 27 Feb. 1987 Costume or formal attire requested 
HEY LOST TRIPLEI Even though you spelled my name wrong, I'd still like to know who the hell 
are you?l? Please respond here. M.N. 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or lease e car. 238-2200. Financ­Ing evalleble lor all US stetea. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A-THONF4 WHEN· FEB 18-19, 23-28; 6:30-9:30PM WHERE • 2nd FLOOR ND ADMIN BLD WHY· THE WOMEN'S CARE CENTER IS A PREGNANCY HELP CENTER THAT RUNS ON VOLUNTEERS AND DONATIONS. WE NEED TO RAISE $25,000 • $30,000. WE NEED STUDENT HELP IN CALL· lNG POTENTIAL DONORS 
CONTACT YOUR ND-SMC RIGHT TO LIFE DORM REP FOR MORE INFOR­MATION 
OR CALL KRIS ND-2550 OR THERESA SMC-4096 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Sean, You continually amaze me. I've missed you. -A Fellow Star-gazer 
·oAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Need a ride to Cleveland. Any weekend. Call Miriam at 283-2687. 
ANvoN"ii·····t.i·iieoii:4a······Fiioii·····e;;:sr 
TOWARDS WESTERN NEW YORK FOR THE WEEKEND CALL KEVIN 2590 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 

THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR ANSWER­ING SPECIAL INTENTIONS! 
................................................................. 
John Crilly says hi to everybody and asks that paople write to him, 6 Rodman Lane, Mountainside, NJ 07090 
Camp Aiello is planned for March 5. Plan your lives accordingly. Our esteemed director Paul Aiello may make an appear­ance. Invitations In your mailbox soon. 
MIKE WILKINS, There will be a "Miracle on Ice" this weekend In Indy. Thankalor ell you've dona. You are the beat. Love from a 
hockey mom 
Hey Buckwheat alias LISA TOTIEN Happy 19th Birthday 
the CARLSBURG awaitsl Your fellow Blue Nuns, Jen and Katy 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 

................................................................ 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK 
SMC VOTE COOK HAMANN WINTER HAL TEA 

................................................................ 
The ELF who wants to be a dentist lives in Howard We're raising money for GERRY'S kids in Keenan Our hooks are ba~ed for the 
· FISHERman in ACC 107 eighteen year old sex mongrels become nineteen year old sex mongrels ... Tots, Bosch, and Crisp 
RIDE NEEDED TO IU BLOOMINGTON on Fri. 2-20 Call Mary Kim 284-4023 
WISCONSIN BOUND? Need ride to Madison or any other city. Any Weekend. Tricia 284-4036 
WIN A VCRIIIII Be a caller for the Wo­men's Care Center Phone-a-Than Come to the Ad. Bldg/ Room212--Feb. 23-27, 6-9:30 
ELIZABETH GERRISH! LIVE IN CONCERT IN THE FLESH! Notre Dame's own cellist virtuoso will be appearing TONIGHT at 7:30 In the An· nenburg Auditorium. Don't miss the chance to see this sparkling beauty's skinny nngers massage the music out of her nne instrument. (Break a bow, Ibis.) 
Sponsored by the Elizabeth Gerrish fan club. 
SAB"'SAB''SAB''SAB Applications lor commissioners is ex­tended til Fridayl GET INVOLVED Ill! Pick up applications 2nd floor of Lefor­tune SAB"SAB"SAB"SAB 
DISTRICT 4 RESIDE,...IS Thanks lor re-electing me to the Student Senate. Spacial thanks to Flenner SA. You guys are greatll won't let you down. 
Steve 
WVFI T-SHIRT SALE NOTRE DAME'S PROGRESSIVE MUSIC STATION RETURNS TO THE AIRWAVES MARCH 1 SUPPORT THE "BIG TURN-ON" BY PURCHASING A COLORFUL TWO PAINT T-SHIRT FOR ONLY $6.001 BRIGHT SPRING COLORS WILL EN­HANCE YOUR BODY ON FLORIDA BEACHES, IN COLORADO SKI LODGES, ETC. SUPPLIES LIMITED...ND STUDENTS CALL PAT 277-3687, SMC STUDENTS CALL MONIQUE 284·5173 FOR DELIVEAYIII 
You know who-hang in there. I'm sure you'll be able to get your Foote in the door. (moan) 
Smurfette, Wanna get smurfed up and go smurfing this weekend? (I promise I won't get any blue on you this time) Smur1 
SOPHOMORES-SOPHOMORES II Come join us tonight at THEODORE'S to watch the showsll 8-10pm on the BIG SCREEN TVI FREE NACHOSIII 
GATOR HAT: ARE YOUR ROOMATES MORE INTERESTED THAN YOU ARE, OR DID YOU JUST MISS LAST THURS.? B.BLONDE 
Mikey, lheartulots, but let's keep our secrets secret,ok? Luvme 
MIKE MORAN...! say the world is for those who make their scopes come true.. .What do you think? 0-Hall Admirer 
TO WHOEVER YOU ARE: GLAD TO HEAR YOU'RE NOT A PSYCHOPATH. NOW, IF YOU WOULD KINDLY LET ME IN ON THE "SECRET" ... ELIZABETH 
KATHY MARTIN, Have a very, very, very extraordinarily HAPPY BIATHDAYIIIII Enjoy it. You deserve it I You're a great friend, and thanks a bunch for remembering. You really made my day. -Love PAC 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the following people: Duz, Cookie, Shields, Muskie, Yockmonster, Lanzertock, Kelty (HA,HA), 
Fritz-o-matic, Frank (you skippad class), Rampton, and Dex. Guys, It was a blast. And to everyone else who wished me a happy one • thanks, you helpad make It a great day. And especially, thanks mom. 
Chooch 
MOM--60 degrees isn't so bad is it? Hopa JPW is greatll Thanks for coming. Love, Elizabeth 
I need ride to MILWAUKEE for No-MARQUETIE game. Call Ann 4015 
KATY MARTIN Alles Gute zum Geburtstagl Thanks for all your help. Love, Mary and Mary (Your partners in features crime) 
................................................................ 
K, WILL YOU GO TO SENIOR FORMAL WITH ME? 
p 
It's good exchanging 'hellos' with you. I have always wanted to really know you ..... 
................................................................ 
Roman: "Ain't it a Shame" that you don't like the B-52's, a group with a "Song for a Future Generation." But maybe you'll change your mind, that is if you want a "Whammy Kiss" from the "Queen of Las Vegas"; you know, the one who likes to "Party Out of Bounds" with you-the goddess of flowing hair, but one who doesn't wear a "Wig." After all, you might only be "52 Miles West of Venus." Olivia(pseudo Marlena) 
Thanks for the flowers-"friend"-they meant alot to me;but they died. 
CELEBRATE THE LOOMER I GRACE RM.505 7-9 pm tonight IT'S A PARTY. 
Just when I needed support the most; just when I needed a friend the most ­she deserts me. I thought our friendship was deepar than that but since she never would opan up to me -how was I to know? I'm really disappointed and frustrated because I really cared about her and I really wanted it to work. It would have worked if she wanted it to. I thought she cared more. I was wrong. 
Oh my goodnessll Could rt be?l? Just one more day until ANGELA GRACE MENDOZA hits the big 1911 
THE YELLOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight daily Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free til March 1. 272-4453 
HEY WIENERI Yes, that means you, 
S.L.I HAPPY ANNIVERSARY! What a wonderful 3 months ~ has been. How about discussing it over a nap? OH SHUT UP sooo muchi-J.B. (I can tell you're im­pressed!) 
HELPII Desperately need ride to Purdue this wknd(20-22) and next wknd(27-29). Will share expanses. Call Dan at 1462 
GREG,KEVIN,AND BRIAN(?): No, I was not crying, I was laughing. The poster was hilarious. But were you trying to of­fend me wrth that quote from Rush? And with "Sting waks pud?" What the heck does that mean? Wait a minute, I thought Barry Manilow died. No, that was Liberace. Thanks lor returning the teddy bear, too. I'll hug him and squeeze him and pat him and, if he's good, I'll rub his fur backwards. There's one side effect, though: he'll turn into a rabbi ("Matzo ... and Moses said ... "). Still, no more need for the Heralded Haven for Tortured Teddies. Melissa had a little lamb ... Marga 
JUNIOR OBSERVERITES SHOW YOUR PARENTS WHY YOU HAVE A GPA EQUAL TO A DOUGH· NUT. BRING THEM TO AN OBSERVER JPW RECEPTION AT THE OFFICE AT 
1:30 SATURDAY AFTERNOON. REFRESHMENTS SERVED. SHOW YOUR PARENTS WHY YOU NEVER SLEEP. 
OCC'S 1 and 4­
Neverl We will not succumb to your child­
ish games ... by the way-how many 
coolers are involved? OCC'S 1 and 3 
SMC 
HEY OCC 3 MY PORCELAIN PAL. THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY ARE MISSING. SMC OCC 2 
DOGGIE Just think only one more day until you can "ring my belli" Luv ya, Mary Kate 
; ATIENTION 
DAVE O'NEIL 
Do you remember what today is? 
Love, B.O.W. 
To the guy from Morrisey who "helped" me home from Campus View on Satur­day night. Just wanted to say thanks. give me a call. 
Kevin Flynn-is she prelly enough to be a cheerleader? M.F. 
ODE TO AN EGO 
You really are a naive boy 
cuz you thought I was cryin' 
but it must be known to one and all 
that lrtsh eyes were smilln' 
K 
Jim, You don't remember last year's 
birthday kiss-but i think you'll remember 
this year'sl 
Happy 221 
Hopa it's the best birthday yeti 
Love, P.S. 
P.S. Gonzo isn't getting any younger, you know? Nudge-nudge-wink-wink 
Kath, Happy birthday to someone who is still climbing the hill! Love, Scoop 
OH HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MARTYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLES NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTER­CESSOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED; TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART AND HUMBLY BEG TO WHOM GOD HAD GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER, TO COME TO MY ASSISTANCE. IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. SAY THREE HAIL MARY'S AND GLORIAS FOR 9 CON­SECUTIVE DAYS. PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. ST. JUDE PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN. TJHIS tl!OVENA HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR CONTINUING TO ANSWER PRAYERS. D. 
Tarry, Laura, Craig, Kevin, Jane, Ruth 
We thought we've been having fun-well 
the fun has just begun. So glad we're 
friends and working together for that com­
mon good. By the way what was broken 
at Jay's house that weekend, and when 
did Kevin really ask her? 
Love you alii 
Michelle Coleman 

The Observer Thursday, February 19, 1987-page 9 



By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Injuries are normally frustrating for an athlete, but for junior distance runner Dan Garrett, they presented him with a difficult situation to deal with. 
It began last year when he suffered a hip injury during cross-country season. 
''The tendon kept slipping out over the bone," says Garrett. "I tried to run through the in­Charles Smith and the Georgetown Hoyas came from behind to 
jury, but I just didn't realize
down Big East rival Pittsburgh last night, 65-52. 
how bad it really was." 
The injury restricted Garrett for several months to just slow jogging every other day. He
rmrAVEAPTS.1 
tried to take his mind off the situation by lifting weights, but he suffered a shoulder injury from it, and all that was left to do was the slow jogging. He
Now renting for Fall 
missed both indoor and outdoor track seasons that sophomore
2 Bedrooms completely 
year.
furnished "I couldn't do anything," he says. "I just try to forget about last year." 

receive ll 1Oo/o discount ~ Fortunately for Garrett, the severe injuries are past (he§ Call 234-6647 § strained a tendon in his knee last week, but it has not both­
~ Protected by Pinkerton Security ~ 
ered him). In fact he has as­sumed once again his positioni~~··Q>·~~!~J.v;.v;..g~<Q>~~ as one of the top Irish distance 
Junior overcomes injuries 
Garrett back on track in distances 
Call us for price quotes on 
your SYR parties. 

Help us plan your JPW parties. 

HolyCross Fathers 
Prices good thru Feb 22, 1987 
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 

~CLUB 
Come Celebrate 
the Last 87 Days 
Fr. Salvatore Fanelli, C.S.C.. on the di!!y of Fr. Fanelli on the occasion of his 60th his ordination, June 16, 1919. Z~nniversaryto the priesthood, June 16, 
1979.

before Graduation!! 
God gives

Tonight: 
each person one lifetime. 
What are you doing with yours?

Features "Jamaica" 
Red Stripes and Rum Punch 
For further information or vocational counseling
Friday: 
with no obligation contact: 

"Mexico" 
Fr. Michael D. Couhlg, esc Fr. Paul F. Doyle, esc
Corona and Tequila 
Box541 

Notre Dame, IN 46556
I

Saturday: 
(219) 239-6385 

"Ireland" 
~~.~ City Wide Liouors 
9om·•• ~ 312511orlh Grape Road, lisbwla 272·2274 
Beer (cases)
Liquor 
1.75 liters Glenmore Vodka... $7.99 
1.75 liters Old Thompson... $8.99 750 ml Jack Daniels... $8.99 750 ml Yukon Jack... $7.99 750 ml J & B........ $9.99 750 ml v.o.........$7.99 
Stroh's 30 pk... $8.99 Lite (24 cans).. $7.99 Bud (24 cans)... $7.99 Bud Quarts......$} 0.99 Little Kings Qts.. $9.99 
Wine 
2 liter 

Sun Country... $2.99 
750 ml M & R Asti.... $7.99 
runners. 

Already he has defeated one of the top mile runners in the nation, Michigan's Chris Brewster. 
"I was in really good shape then," Garrett says. "He had never run on our track before. It's really hard to pass on our track, and he just didn't time it right. (Fellow Irish distance runner) Mike Rogan helped a lot. If anyone tried to make a 

Dan Garrett 
move, we would hold him off." Garrett recorded a time of 
4: 12 in that race, the top Irish time in the mile this season. He also recorded a time of 9:00.05 in the two-mile run at the Central Collegiates, leaving him just one-tenth of a second short from qualifying for the IC4A's in that race. 
But the quiet Clarence Cen­ter, N.Y., native has not even run his best race yet. That will come in the spring when he gets his first crack at the 5,000­meter run since his freshman year. His personal best in that race is 14:36, which is eighth on Notre Dame's all-time list. 
fhe Irish travel to Bloomington tomorrow for the Indiana Intercollegiates. In­diana and Purdue will battle with Notre Dame for the top three positions in the team standings. 
"Indiana has an awesome team," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "Indiana beat Illinois in a dual meet, and Illinois, along with Purdue, beat us at the Central Collegiates." 
The Boilermakers feature sprinter and grid star Rod Woodson, who won both the 60­yard dash and the 60-yard high hurdles at the Central Col­legiates. 
Notre Dame was scheduled to sent its two-mile relay team to the Illinois Classic Saturday, but a lower-leg injury to co­captain Jeff VanWie will prob­ably force the relay to scratch. The extent of VanWie's injury was to be determined today. 
Hockey 
continuedfrompage 12 
through college. 
Except for Notre Dame 
Scholars and ROTC grants, 
Notre Dame does not promise 
any such help to recruited ath­
letes outside of football and 
basketball. 
"I happen to be a believer in 
the Ivy League system," Smith 
said. "I'd like to see where, if 
a young man can meet the aca­
demic expectations and ath­
letic qualifications, that we 
could take an honest look at his 
financial background and 
award him some help if he 
needs it. Maybe with the 
stipulation that he also goes out 
and works to help pay for his 
education. 
"I would like to think that would be more financially vi­able for our program, that it could be done. But proving your point is tough. Our financial aid here at Notre Dame is rela­tively small, but I would like to think that something could be done for us to compete with the top teams in the country again." 
Smith also said some good teams would like to schedule the Irish in the future, and that next year's recruiting class has the potential to be the best since the team went back up to the Division I level two seasons ago. With no scholarships or financial aid to players who need it, however, I find it diffi­cult to believe that the Irish could put up a consistent front against the nation's powers. 
Without the powerful recruit­ing weapon commonly referred to as the scholarship, Smith and the Irish will continue to try improving their record in the ACHA against weaker op­ponents, and the number of Notre Dame players graduat­ing to NHL careers will con­tinue to take a nosedive. 
As for me, I guess I'll just never know what those good ol' days in Notre Dame hockey were all about. 



Observer Thursday, February 19, 1987 -page 10 
Morrissey takes lead in Gold League; Pangborn, Alumni still sbO()ting for playoffs 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO Sports Writer 
The Manor is still intact after league rivals, Alumni and Pangborn, fired their best shots at it in interhall hockey action. 
The Gold League is now coming into focus, as Mor­rissey (4-0-1) has affirmed itself on top after disposing of Alumni and tying Pangborn. 
With one game remaining on the schedule, Morrissey only needs to beat Stanford to clinch a playoff spot as the top seed from the Gold League. Pangborn (3-0-2), despite the 1-1 tie with Mor­rissey, can also clinch a playoff berth if it can defeat Fisher in the finale for both teams. Alumni (3-1-1), which lost to Morrissey, 6-3, needed a Pangborn loss to be back in the race. The rest of the Gold participants will be playing the final week for pride, since the playoffs are out of reach. 

The Morrissey-Pangborn match figured to be a good one and it did not disappoint. Goals were hard to come by, however, due in part to the goaltending abilities of Pangborn's Brian MacSwain. 
"Their goalie made tre­mendous saves all game long, and really kept mo­mentum for them," said Morrissey captain Ted Gradel. Gradel and com­pany needed a two-man power-play advantage late in the game to pierce MacSwain's goal. Gradel, who was left open, received a pass in the left slot and then faked MacSwain to his right before depositing the puck into the open side. 
Pangborn took the lead in the first half when Paul Eiden scored through a screened Morrissey goal. 
After that, Pangborn was forced to protect the lead the rest of the way. MacSwain time and time again frustrated Morrissey at­tacks, but to its credit, Mor­rissey held its composure. 
"Our patience was tested, but it paid off when we took advantage of that break," said a relieved Gradel. 
The Alumni game was a see-saw contest, before Mor­rissey put it away late. Mor­rissey jumped out to a 4-0 lead, but Alumni then scored three unanswered goals to put suspense in what had earlier looked like a rout. However, Gradel broke Alumni's comeback effort, scoring his te~am's fifth goal with five minutes left. In all, Gradel accounted for half of his club's goal production, while Chuck Curley, Bren­dan Max and Pat Koeppl pitched in with a goal apiece. 

Alumni got goals from Brian Aquadro, Jim Vizzini, and John McLachlan. 
In other Gold League results, Pangborn beat Zahm (0-4-1), 6-1. Stanford (2-3) won two straight over winless Zahm and Sorin, by respective 5-1 and 2-1 scores. Sorin (0-5) has sole posses­sion of last place. 
The Blue League seems to be going as expected with Grace and Off-Campus dueling for first place. Grace (4-0) met Off-Campus (4-0-1) last night to settle bragging rights. 
Grace is coming off a big win after bombing Car­roll--Keenan (1-4), 10-1. Off­Campus held St.Ed'&Holy Cross (0-5) scoreless in win­ning, 4-0. 
The rest of the Blue League saw CavanaugMioward (3-2) shelling Carrol1Keenan, 9-1, and Flanner (2-3) was blanked by Dillon (3-2), 5-0. 
Reserves 
continuedfrompage 12 
and junior Kathy Barron (six points) led the reserves. The team's two newest additions, sophomores Ellen Mouch and Kim Garrison, saw action in their third game as Mouch finished off the scoring by hit­ting a foul shot with six seconds remaining, to give Notre Dame a 90-53 victory. 
The Irish next travel to DePaul on Saturday as they face the North Star Conference leaders, the 18-4 Blue Demons. The two teams met at the ACC in January when DePaul pulled out an 80-68 win. 
"DePaul is just going to be a war," said DiStanislao. "They are making a push right now to get into the NCAA's and they're not going to stop them­selves. We're going to have to go up there and play real well to beat them." 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban Setting 
just 10 minutes from 
campus. 

You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life atL__ -------~ ___.... •nJtauu... Lane Apartments. beautiful setting is 
hink Thic of the 
Thu day 
Mapleon provides professors graduate •;:)L'uut::uL;:. and adJmilriisltratoJj retreat from campus.
$6.00 In addition we offer you a special discount. 
Thick Crust Extra Cheese, and 1:1epperoni 
apartments being

for only $6.00. A savings of $2.60 
through Spring '87 

~ffer good on Thursdays only~ ~ 
Pool, Clubhouse,100°/o Real Cheese Unconditiona Community Activities Guarantee. 
The best time to eat a pizza is when it's ~
Time us! 
fresh from the oven. But home-delivered pizza asher & Dryer in apartment
is almost never that fresh. Unless of course, 
it's from DOMINO"S PIZZA Unlike other 
~ILLurias, Domino's Pizza has perfected a super­~tercom entrances efficient way to custom-make each and every pizza. Very, very quickly. And because we make your pizza faster, we can deliver it in less than 30 minutes from the time you call. 
F st, Friendly Free Delivery 
*call for details about

CALL US! 
your discount 277-3731

77·2151 
models and clubhouse open daily 


'JI['~t:Jl~~.....................................................
Th•u•r.sd.a-y,•F•e•b•ru.a-ry._19•'•19.87···p•a•g•e•ll.. 
Bloom County 
~... I miNK 
70PAY'5 AIP5 
57lJRY W4.5 7/JO Wf.5HY -W4.5HY, liS 1/SI/11/.. •. 
\~1
/ 
Beer Nuts 
1/NO OVEfi' THl'Rt IS rile 
60£/)tA/ ~HC ... 
llw •·w 
Campus 
2:00-4:00 p_m_: Caricature Artist, Winter Carnival '87, sponsored by SMC student government, SAGA lunch, Haggar 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse 
R: base 5000, part II, 108 Computing Center, limit 7. To register, call Betty 239-5604 4:15-5:30 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visit­ing Scholar Series, College of Arts and Let­ters and the Dept. of Government Lecture. Theme: The Recurring Founding: The Con­stitution and Political Development in the United States. "Cities in the American Con­stitutional Order," by Martin Shefter, Cor­nell University, 122 Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
4: 15-5:30 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visit­ing Scholar Series, College of Arts and Let­ters and Program in Critical and Continen­tal Thought. Theme: Hermeneutics and its Horizons. "Interpretation, Narration, and Rationality," by Prof. Calvin Schrag, Purdue University, Galvin Life Sciences Center Auditorium, Room 283 6:00p.m.: General meeting, Overseas De­velopment Network, plans for the Hunger Clean-up and elections will be discussed, Center for Social Concerns 6:30p.m.: Presentation by Paul Reynolds of Career and Placement Services of Notre Dame, "Summer Internships: Techniques and Resources to Use.", 123 Nieuwland Sci­ence Hall 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
SAB presents 

at LaFortune 
SATURDAY Bus trip to 100 Center Hacienda Fondue Parlor
Get away from the juniors. 
Ice House

Times for these events T.B.A. 
Movies 
'IOVI< fl?e(}l/8111/5! or me 1tKtt1 "INT!MIIrE 
CONTACT~ 111/:J t.EfT 5f)tf! ()f Of/!? 
R!A~r<S 
C0Nfll5f/?. 
I 
... SYH{J()t. oF IVOTI?t PIIM£S 

WELl,50N, W/IAT T OvNNO, COftU.I f'£t(AJ 
{)0 )0() ni!NK
FOOrMU f"rCELUIU. 11'5 
STilT! HIITJ li4NWIG-Glli'LS. 
Al!OIIT ()()/?
SAAPEP t.IKE HAlF .4 Fr:Xfr­
You GOT ANY Dr4NetNG­

~rSCI((}()(.. ? vii?LS? I
/Yrl.L, YOV K/I.IOW. SEE? 
rr 
"' 

7:00 
&9:30p.m.: Movie, "Sound of Music," $1, Carroll Auditorium, SMC 

7:00 
p.m.: Basketball SMC vs. Purdue, Calumet, Angela Athletic Facility 7:30p.m.: WWF Superstars of Wrestling, ACC 


8:00 p.m.: Program of Liberal Studies-Faculty Evening, "Conventions of the Unconventional in the 17th Century," by Prof_ Stephen Fallon, ND, Library lounge 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round 
Turkey Tetrazini 
Mexican Pizza 
Devonshire Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Pizza Deluxe-Cheese Pizza Sweet & Sour Pork Potato Pancakes with Apple 
Sauce Deli Bar 
Berke Breathed 
YeS, MI/PI{M, Mr<5. '1rJV MIIY ClW­ll!UWH!Pfl..t 1lNV€ 1lJ 51/fct.Y 
COI/l/1 K/55 YCXIR CAT 
weu.~ ''wtA?6(1M5 •FfltL 
A am.& ON .,.; t.IP5... 
CXFt./C!TN£.55 IN HtR l/f£. 
l~~·~~­
\ 
Mark Williams 
,. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Honshu volcano t:-:--+--+---+­

5 Corrodes 10 Breaking waves 14 Algerian city 15 Broad scarf 16 Dies­17 Display 
framework 18 Endanger 20 BPOE member 21 Portion 22 Seasonal tree 
adomment 23 Oriental nurses 25 Cold wind In Fr. 26 Domingo and Pavarotti 28 Tidbit con­
tainer: var_ 32 Having wings 33 Cuckoo 34 Honor card 35 Record 36 After-dinner 
candy 37 Phoenician 
port 38 Consumed 39 Deteriorate 40 Used a 
crosscut 41 Hold back 43 Swamp 44 Vague clue 45 Untamed 46 Added to the 
pot 49 Location 50 Young goat 53 Hard candy 55 Give up land 56 Pierre's girl 57 Large beast 58 Region 59 Soaks flax 60 Beach area 61 Despot 
DOWN 1-and aft 2 Russ. river 3 Mischievous 
child 4 Writing fluid 

SAB presents 
''WIZARDS" ·• Tonight 7, 9, 11 
"About Last Night" ·· Saturday 
7, 9:15, 11:30 
Engineering Auditorium Absolutely no alcohol allowed 
Far Side Gary Larson 

2/19/87

<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
5 Indian princes 6 Consumers 7 Glasgow native 8 Crest 9 Terminals 
10 Novelist Sheldon 11 "Exodus" 
author 12 Destroy 13 Sense 19 Hazardous 21 Curtail 24 Particle 25 Swag 26 Mongolian 27 Make joyful 28 Arthur-
Doyle 29 Some pedes­
trians 39 Less wet 47 Designate 30 Land units 40 Painful 48 Taunt 31 Hollow stems 42 Ancient Nile 49 Derma 33 Within the law city 51 Conception 36 Wanders 43 Eur. subways 52 Expensive 37 GWTW 45 Evil spirit 54 Exclamation 
plantation 46 Slightly open 55 Civet 
-.. 
• 
.. 


orts 
Thursday, February 19, 1987 -page 12 

ND tops Rams in Garden, 69-57, escapes scare as Royal hits for 20 
key. If they did, it's a different Digger Phelps. "But we didn't
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 

game." lose our composure and we did
Sports Writer 

The Irish managed to hit 15-the things we had to do to win NEW YORK -It wasn't the of-18 free throws in the second the game. prettiest of games, but it ended half, after making only three­"But I thought Fordham 
up in the victory column. The of-seven in the first half, which played very, very well, and Notre Dame basketball team ended in a 29-29 tie. that's a credit to Coach Quinn. picked up its 16th win of the A14-4 run by the Irish, begin­They played with excellent in­season last night, beating ning at the 14:47 mark of the tensity, and played hard as Fordham by a 69-57 score in the second half, gave Notre Dame they always do. I've never seen 
second game of a doubleheader a 10-point lead at 51-41. For­a Fordham team dog it -we at Madison Square Garden. ward Donald Royal, who led can't ever expect them to lay · Despite the score, however, the Irish with 20 points, scored down when we come in here." the game was in doubt until six of those points, while David "We couldn't have played Irish center Gary Voce hit both Rivers (16 points, five assists) them at a better time, this ends of a one-and-one with 34 contributed four. being their third game in four seconds left to give the Irish a Fordham made several nights," said Quinn. "That's 
63-57 lead. valiant runs at the Irish down what I was telling my players Four free throws and a last­the stretch, but strong offen­all week -that we would have second three-point jump shot sive rebounding helped put the a shot. That's a grueling 
,_, 

by David Rivers gave the Irish Rams away. Although Ram schedule they had lately. I 
~ 

their final margin of victory. forward Joe Paterno brought thought my schedule-maker ~~ ;t "That really wasn't a 12­
his team within four at 61-47, was sadistic." The Observer/Bob Jones point game," said Fordham Voce's free throws ended all Guard Scott Hicks turned in another fine effort for the Irish,· 
head coach Bob Quinn, "I'll tell comeback hopes. 
.~~~uua••u Royal scored 20 points as the Notre Dame basketball 
you that. They didn't miss their "We were a little flat
downed Fordham, 69-57', in Madison Square Garden last 
see IRISH, page 8

free throws, and that was the tonight," said Irish head coach 
Eric Scheuermann has the details at right. 
·sh trounce 111.-Chicago, 90-53, ring three-game drought to halt 
ham scored 15 of her 17 points Donna Clark, Illinois-Chicago's in the second half as the Irish top scorer (16.8 points per ran away with the game and game), to only two first-half After a slow start last night improved their record to 7-15. points and three shots from the 
the ACC, the Notre Dame After quickly falling behind, field. rwn,mocon's basketball team took 6-0, Illinois-Chicago made a run Clark picked up her fourth lt>mnh•,nl of the and rolled at the Irish and tied the game personal foul early in the 
.UUCUVl"-'-''U'-Qj:;,V, 90-53. at 14-14. Freshman Kathy second half, and the Irish took good one to Emigholz hit two 15-foot advantage of her cautious play " , said Irish head coach jumpers and junior point guard to break open the game. Clark DiStanislao. "Itwas good Mary Gavin ran the Notre moved out to the perimeter be­be able to rebound from a Dame fast break expertly as cause of foul trouble and scored like Tennessee with a the Irish ran up a 38-22 lead at 16 second-half points on short like this one." the intermission. jumpers and foul shots. This 
Notre Dame overwhelmed ''Cathy Emigholz made a was not enough to hold back the Flames in nearly every big, big difference coming off DiStanislao's hungry team as aspect of the game, controlling the bench," said DiStanislao. Notre Dame ran away with the the pace and the boards while "I think she really stemmed win to end a three-game losing shooting .597 from the floor. In the tide in a game that was streak. turn, the Irish held their oppo­starting to be a little lack­Everyone got in on the action nents to a .283 shooting luster." at the end as the Irish bench percentage. Gavin's precision passing emptied. Four starters finished 

Freshman Annie Schwartz, kept the Flames on their heels in double digits, while Emig­who has been on a scoring tear throughoutthefirsthali,asshe holz, freshman Molly Mahoney The Observer /Drew Sandler for the past three weeks, led recorded nine assists and three (nine points, five rebounds) Notre Dame forward Annie Schwartz led the Irish women's bas­
Notre Dame with 17 points and steals. Meanwhile, the Notre ketball team to a 90-53 win over Illinois-Chicago last night with 10 rebounds. Junior Sandy Bot-Dame defense was holding 6-5 see RESERVES, page 10 17 points. Brian O'Gara has the story at left. 

Hockey program is short-handed without financial aid 
Growing up in Ontario, Canada, it was difficult for me to walk down the street on a winter day without hearing something about hockey. As a matter of fact, it's tough to do in any season. 
At Notre Dame, it's quite easy. 
I often wonder how exciting it must have been hiking over to the ACC on a winter weekend to watch the likes of Don Jackson, Dave Poulin or Bill Nyrop (all NHL players) in their Notre Dame 
• uniforms, and seeing some of the best college teams in the country battle it out on the ice with the Irish. But thanks to something called financial feasibility, those days are gone. The once-strong Notre Dame hockey program, which made the playoffs for 13 consecutive seasons under the helm of Charles "Lefty" Smith, now plays in the four-team American Collegiate Hockey Association, and offers no scholarships. Zero. 
Smith himself takes some of the blame. 
"We weren't too smart," he said. "In the West­ern Collegiate Hockey Association (for 10 years) and the Central Collegiate Hockey Association (three years), the top two teams went to the Final Four. To call those tournaments NCAA tourna­ments would have cost us 25 percent of the reve­nue, so we decided to keep the names WCHA and CCHA. 
"That was a mistake. We never made the Final Four, but we never missed the playoffs, which technically were NCAA playoffs. So on the campus, they weren't really too sure that we had ever had any success." 
Marty Strasen 
Assistant Sports Editor. 

How much proof do people need? Notre Dame ranks lOth among all colleges in players sent to the NHL, and five of those players have their names on the Stanley Cup. Poulin, the captain of the Philadelphia Flyers, recently netted the win­ning goal as the NHL All-Stars knocked off the Soviet Union. 
But the 1980's marked rock-bottom for the Irish. After the number of scholarships had been cut from 20 to 15 in 1980 because of rising travel costs and the emergence of women's sports at Notre Dame, the Athletic Department dropped the hockey program to club status for the 1983-84 season, allowing the 12 scholarship players who were not graduating to transfer schools without losing a year of eligibility. 
Then, two years ago, the program was brought back to the varsity level, but with no scholarships. None. 
"Let's face it," Smith said. "It's a challenge to say the least. Now we've got to go after a kid who is a good student, with good SAT scores, who can afford to go here and who is a good athlete .,Instead of competing with the Minnesotas, North Dakotas and Michigan States, we're recruiting with the Ivy League schools." 
And so far, the Ivies are winning. 
Harvard made an appearance in the Final Four last year, Princeton has had some impressive seasons, and Smith thinks Harvard is one of the favorites again this season. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame sports an 8-15-1 record in a division feared by none of the nation's powers. 
The difference? 
Scholarships based on need. The Ivy League schools distribute a good deal of financial aid to their players based on financial need, and set up programs so that their players can work their way 
see HOCKEY, page 9 









