
j'IOTRE DAMe f:OLLF.CT!Ctf 
Simply blown away
IACCENT: 'A way of life' for Arkies 
Windy and mild Monday, be­coming mostly cloudy with a 40 percent chance of showers mainly during the afternoon.

IVIEWPOINT: Apartheid and economics 
around 65. 


DIR 08/15/8-8 Z1 Evp·EDITE **** 
NE 
I,lC' **** 1\
**** ""'"' -N,...
cpECIAL COLLECTlU ~ H~SBURGH LIBRARY IN NOTRE DAME -e ,.--_-._._.__..,. 

VOL. XXI, NO. 53 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 

Board decides to maintain policy 
By JIM RILEY Principles, a set of fair employ­News Editor ment principles authored by Rev. Leon Sullivan which 
Notre Dame's Board of Trus­called for total divestment if tees decided Friday to continue apartheid was not dismantled its policy of selective divest­within a two-year period. That ment from firms doing busi­period ended in May, and Sul­ness in South Africa, said Rich­livan in June called for all ard Conklin, director of public American businesses to relations and information. withdraw. 
The Anti-Apartheid Network Notre Dame, however, con­later announced it would orga­tinues to hold investments in nize a boycott of Coca-Cola companies which do business products next semester. in South Mrica and will con­
The Board of Trustees tinue to divest from those com­received a report from the panies which do not meet the finance and investment com­board's criteria. mittee which said that since the The board will continue to last board meeting in May, review its policy every time it Notre Dame had divested from meets, Conklin said. three firms doing business in Even though Sullivan has South Mrica, Conklin said. pulled away from the prin­
"These firms did not meet ciples, the companies doing the board's criteria of working business in South Mrica are actively to eliminate apartheid still rated by an indepenoont in South Mrican society," said firm as to how well they are 
Conklin. Notre Dame has following the principles, said divested from such firms each Father Oliver Williams, asso­year it has been following the ciate provost. 
policy. Notre Dame has $17 million 
He said that after the board invested in 17 firms doing busi­received the committee's ness in South Mrica, Conklin report, there was discussion, said. and a consensus was reached. Peter Walshe, director of No formal vote was taken. African studies and a leading 
Notre Dame's policy had been based on the Sullivan see BOARD, page 3 
Students react to 
TheObseNer/Jrrncarron 
fOOd-fight biII 
One of the hundreds of Irish fans who swarmed onto end of the season. Students successfully pulled down By LYNNE R. STRAND fight. "I don't like the idea the football stadium after Saturday's game against the southern post after being thwarted by massed Staff Reporter about wasting food. It's a very Alabama, rises out of the crowd atop a listing southern stadium guards in their efforts to bring down northern spoiled thing to do. H we're goal post and predicts Notre Dame's standing at the post. While Notre Dame students going to be foolish enough to do are still elated about beating that, we should pay for it. This 'Barna, student leaders are is a good way to make students devising ways to pay the $1,400 responsible. It's a direct ap­

SUB violations now 'corrected' 
Michigan food-fight bill. proach.'' Members of the Hall Presi­Menezes' opinion is the ex­ception, however. 
By LIZ PANZICA let's get rid of it," he said. fifth of the vote in the senate, dents' Council will meet with the Student Senate Monday "It's a crock," said freshman Copy Editor Jaeger said he wanted to the second largest faction. 
night to decide how the student 
"eliminate ambiguity" in the The constitution's status has Sam Battaglia. "I don't think Student Union Board viola­constitution. He said he wants been debated by student government and classes should they can make everyone pay for it." Battaglia said he was
tions of the student body con­student leaders to pay closer leaders for the last few years, divide the bill. 
stitution have been corrected, attention to the constitution. Jeager said. "The money has to come at a dining hall but did partic­said Mike Jaeger, student gov­"I recognize the fact that from somewhere," said Pat ipate in the food fights. ernment chief of staff Sunday some people have paid no heed In a letter released to Student Cooke, student body president. Sophomore Rick Purcell ad­
night. to the constitution because it is Body President Pat Cooke, Stu­"We (the students) should take mitted he participated in the 
Jaeger cited three past SUB inefficient." dent Body Vice President responsibility for our own ac­food fight and said he does not violations of the student body Laurie Bink and SUB Director tions. think students should pay. constitution: it maintained no Jaeger said he would like the Janel Blount Sunday night, "I think we should pay for "If we pay 13 thousand dol­
lars a year to go to Notre
public record of steering com­constitution changed so that it Jaeger suggested constitu­the food fight, but we don't mittee meetings; it kept no is consistent with the bylaws of tional reassessment. know how yet," he said. "Stu­Dame, we should have some 
public records of votes; and it student government. dent government is trying to fun," argued Purcell. "College had no advisory council. The letter is "solely based on come up with the best possible is supposed to be fun. I don't Mter these violations were solution that everyone will know what the big deal is. The 
Constitutional amendments my four years of observa­
made known to the student sen­must be approved by both the tions," he said. agree to, while minimalizing food is already paid for." ate, SUB started to keep a Student Senate and the HPC. the damage in collecting the Sophomore Mary Seitz also public record of steering com­"I would like the letter to money." was skeptical about the mittee meetings and votes Jaeger said a constitutional make the public more aware; Senior Noella Menezes charges assessed for the food taken, said Jaeger. amendment should not require if (amendments) came to a stu­agrees with Cooke that the stu­fight. "Is that $1,400 worth in 
Although the constitution re­approval from the Hall Presi­dent body vote, they would be dents should foot the food fight glassware?" she asked in­quires SUB to have an advisory dent's Council because the aware," he said. bill. credulously. Seitz said she was council, Jaeger said SUB has HPC already has "adequate Jaeger's letter said nothing "I think it's a very good too busy hiding from flying food not demonstrated a need for representation" in the senate. about SUB's alleged constitu­idea," said Menezes, who said one. "If it's not required, then Jaeger said the HPC has one tional violations. she did not take part in the food see REACTION, page 5 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------­


In Brief 
Ex-Globetrotter Harry Rusan died Monday. Rusan was considered to be one of the clown princes of basketball. Playing forward at a height of 5-foot-7, Rusan averaged nearly 20 points a game while playing for the Globetrotters from 1934-39. -Associated Press 
Picasso paintings and other works valued at more than 
$1 million were stolen from a Florida art gallery only four 
days before being insured. The paintings were taken at 
gunpoint by two thieves who went directly to the clo~et 
where the paintings were stored, yet gallery owner Ja1ro 
Quintero dismissed employee involvement. 
-Associated Press 
Eggs, rocks, and bottles were hurled at Kim Young-sam, a South Korean presidential candidate during a speech Sunday. Supporters of rival candidate Kim Dae­jung disrupted his speech in Kwangju, a political stron­ghold for Dae-jung. The two opposition leaders are seen as splitting the presidential vote, giving the government candidate, Rob Tae-woo, a chance to win the elections. 
-Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Alpha Epsilon Delta members should attend a 
brief general meeting at 7 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. Sweat­
shirts, tank tops and other accessories will be distributed. 
The Observer 
Humanitas has extended its deadline for submissions until Monday, Nov. 30. Essays, fiction and book reviews should be submitted to the English office, 356 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
''Interviewing Tips and an Overview ofOpportunities in Commercial Banking" will be the topic of a presentation given this afternoon by Georgene Gorrell, Human Re­sources Officer for the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. The presentation will be held in the Career and Placement Services office from 4 to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Couples interested in attending Friday's program, "What's the Future of this Relationship?" must register by today at either Campus Ministry office. -The Observer 
A Networking workshop will be offered at 6:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge by Dell Lucas. Lucas will explore proven methods for locating unpublished pro­fessional job openings. This presentation will be repeated Tuesday at 6:30p.m. in the Library Lounge.-The Observer 
The first round ofthe Notre Dame Chess Championship will begin at 8 p.m. in the Chicago Room on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. Bring board, set, and clock if you have one. -The Observer 
"How the Ninth Amendment Sank Bork" will be a lecture given by the Hon. Charles Cooper, Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel. The lecture will be at noon in the Law School courtroom.-The Observer 
--A.-=-Y=-~ ­
---Ih-e-0-bse.---~~r---­
Design Editor _. . Mark McLaughlin Design Assistant . . . . Pete LaFleur Typesetters . _ . . . . . . . Michael Buc 
-------------------. . ............Daniel Cahill 
News Editor....  ...  Chris Julka  
Copy Editor.....  Matt Crowley  
Sports Copy Editor.  ..  Rick Rietbrock  

Viewpoint Copy Ea1tor .... Brian Conway Accent Copy Editor.. .... Kathy Scar beck Accent Layout... Katy Kronenberg Typist.... . Jenn Conlon ND Day Editors... Elizabeth Cornwell 
...... Maria Doti Photographer ... . Susan Coene 
Tilt a..na-(USPS S99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam aDd vacation periods. Tilt Olller\'er is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame aDd Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writiDJ Tilt Olleener, P.O. Boll Q, Noue Dame, Indiana 46H6. 
Tilt a..ntr is a member or Tilt AIMdllled rr-. All reprod~on riahts are raerved. 

Criticism of today's youth mounting but unfair 
It is no secret that American youth of today take a beating at the hands of i~tellectuals and journalists. Very little is admired of today's youth. Mostly it's a story of corruption and decadence. 
Of course every generation has thought that its descendants were in some sense worse than they were. But recent publications assessing the quality of American education indicate that today's younger generation, ages 12 to 22, ex­cedes previous limits of ignorance, self­gratification, and barbarism. 
But is it in fact true that America's youth cares only for sex, drugs, and money and is therefore the worst it has ever been? Or are these accusations only superficial understand­ings of an age group whose ideals have always been an easy target for academic attack? 
Among the many charges directed against the newer generation is the claim that television and popular music have had too powerful an influence in shaping their minds. As a result of this mass media programming most members of this age group are believed to have attention spans of around thirty minutes, the length of a usual sit-com show. And because most songs last from three to five minutes, this figure is taken as the length of time an individual is able actually to listen to a single voice or argument. 
Television is also held accountable for the decline in moral values evident in the youth. It is said that today's adolescents can only act out the roles they have seen on the tube. They are as superficial and as scatter-brained as the characters they mimic out of soap operas. The supreme concern with material satisfaction and sexual gratification, which are taken as hal­lmarks of this generation, are values programmed from impersonal sources. They are not the result of self-seeking, exploration, or imagination. 
Perhaps the strongest indictment of the younger generation is that imagination and creativity have been replaced by mechanical role playing. The critics need only point to the debauchery of collegiate spring breaks at Fort Lauderdale or the lyrics of such songs as Madonna's "Material Girl," or the Beastie Boys' "You Gotta Fight for Your Right to Party" to establish the superficiality of these roles. Under such conditions they argue, true love vanishes and passions are drowned out by sexual promiscuity. 
Finding fault with popular culture and in par­
ticular the foolishness of the young is an easy 
task. For some it even seems to be a favorite pastime and career. Allan Bloom's recent, well­publised work The Closing of the American Mind offers one such indictment of the influence popular culture on the minds of the young. 

You do not have to look far to find verifica­tions for such theories of moral decline. Every­thing from Walkman cassette players to the introduction of Spuds Mackenzie as the original party animal can be used as evidence that today's youth has sunk to the lowest levels of mental activity. The theory is seemingly con­firmed by nearly everything on television and radio, and even by such things as the popularity of fast food and the logos printed on clothing. Little or nothing is admitted as counter evidence. 
The picture presented by such observers of social thought is not a flattering one. It presumes that at any given moment the mind of the average youth is likely to be occupied with one of four thoughts, sex, drugs, rock and roll, or money -all of which are immediate concerns of an entirely self-centered and super­ficial individual. The plastic brain of today's youth of course stands in implicit contrast to the truly youthful and noble mind of some golden era, but when this was no one seems to know. 

OFF-CAMPUS BUS TRIP
SOberi 

TO CHICAGO
I I
Advice~, 

NOVEMBER 18th 
I 

~n~
alife ~, 
·_4· 
....&~ 
I

BUS LEAVES CIRCLE AT 
I

6:30PM & RETURNS 4:00AM 
I 
I

SIGN-UPS NOV. 16th & 17th 
I

MAIN LOBBY OF LAFORTUNE FROM 
I 
I I I 
I

12-1 PM & 2-3 PM 
I 
I

COST $7 INCLUDES REFRESHMENTS 
.l
' 

NORTHERI'f TRUST BANK Chicago, IL 
7:00pm Tonight -November 161 1987 Upper Lounge -University Club Representatives will discuss career opportunities in Commercial Banking and Trust. 
-1 
-1
All are welcome to attend. 
Fear of failure spurs federal budget deficit talks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Deficit re­duction talks between the White House and Congress are into their deadline week with participants confident of suc­cess -because they can't per­mit a failure. 
''The whole country views it as a test of whether the presi­dent and Congress can really govern," Rep. Leon Panetta, one of the negotiators, said this weekend. 
The talks nearly collapsed on Thursday, scaring not only the people in the room but those outside. 
"Not only didn't we like the taste of it, but clearly the signal from our fellow members (was) they wanted something significant done," Sen. Pete Domenici, a negotiator and senior Republican on the Sen­ate Budget Committee, said this weekend. 
On Friday, the talks res­tarted. Taped on the wall was a full-page newpaper ad from business and civic leaders call­ing for "Decisive Action: a bi­partisan Budget Plan." 
After less than two hours, the House, Senate and White House staffs were sent scurrying for a weekend of numbers­crunching. The bargainers will need the details this week to flesh out a plan to reduce the deficit by $75 billion or more during the next two years. 
The goal of the talks, begun three weeks ago after the Wall Street collapse, is to reduce the fiscal1988 deficit by at least $23 billion to an estimated $144 bil­lion, as required by the Gramm-Rudman law. That would avert automatic spend­ing cuts under the budget­balancing law, which without agreement would take effect Friday. 

The bargainers go into the week with the outline of an agreement that for fiscal 1988 would: 
-Raise taxes about $10 bil­lion, plus add some new fees for government services and step up enforcement of income tax laws. 
-Allow the Pentagon about $285.5 billion to spend this year, more than last year but far less than the $297 billion Reagan re­quested. 
-Restrain inflation growth in domestic agency budgets, to save about $2.8 billion, and cut costs in Medicare and farm subsidies by up to $5 billion combined. 
Those items, along with con­current savings in debt pay­ments that result, would satisfy Gramm-Rudman. 
Stretched into fiscal1989, the program would cut that deficit by $44 billion to $50 billion, in­cluding $19 billion in higher taxes. 
Passenger jet flips over, killing at least 19 people 
<\ssociated Press 
OKLAHOMA CIY, OK -A Continental Airlines jet with 81 people aboard flipped on its back while taking off from Den­ver's airport in a snowstorm Sunday and skidded along the runway, killing at least 19 people and injuring 54 more, authorities said. 
"We counted 18 dead outside the plane, and there are several dead in the fuselage," said Stapleton International Airport spokesman Richard Boulware. Twenty-one people walked 
away from the crash, officials said. 
The DC-9 twin-engine jet, Flight 1713, was carrying 76 passengers and five crew members from Denver to Boise, Idaho, said Continental spokesman Ned Walker. Walker said the flight originated in Oklahoma City, and the crash took place shortly after 2 p.m. MST. 

Rescue work was hampered by falling snow and ice, visibility was poor and some survivors were still trapped in­side the plane more than four hours after the accident, aut­horities said. 
National Transportation Safety Board chairman James Burnett and nine Washington­based investigators will fly to Denver to investigate the Sun­day night crash, NTSB spokes­man Ted Lopatkiewicz said. 
At Denver General Hospital, Dr. Peter Pons said there were 19 confirmed deaths. 
Happy Birthday to our little Matty!! 
We love you ­Dirty & Benji & Soko 
Board 
continued from page 1 
proponent of divestment, said he was not surprised by the 

BRAINS &BRAWN 

TRIVIA COUNTDOWN & SHOWDOWN 
A panel of experts developed the ultimate fun trivia contest that pits your skill and 
knowledge against other 
-players here in our place and players all across the
~ 
country. 
For the first time in history, you can actually interact with live TV football games via 
fiefiejmj 
Oo . ., Shu1a Hanlt Stram 8111 Walsh · Don Klost11rman 
with other players here and nationally by anticipatirig live quarterback p.lays. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiii 

decision. "This is a great lost opportunity," said W alshe. 
The Anti-Apartheid Network is planning a boycott of Coca­Cola products to begin next se­mester, said John-Paul Check­ett, treasurer of the network. 
"If the board won't divest, then we won't consume the products made by the companies which are still doing businesses there," he said. 
Checkett said Coca-Cola did sell its shares in its beverage firm in South Africa. But the firm, operating under a differ­ent name, still sells Coke and Coke products and gives money to the South African govern­ment. 
"This is kind of like the stu­dents divesting from the com­panies," Checkett said. 
He added that the boycott is unrelated to the fact that Donald Keough, head of the Coca-Cola company, is also chairman of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 
iff}={}~ #'Jmllf~ 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. 
~~,·:~ ~ FREE
ilf. ·~ 
TOPPINGS 

YOUR CHOICE OF TOPPINGS AT THE CHEESE PIZZA PRICE 
-CALL AHEAD FOR FAST PICKUP OR DEL/VERY­
283-2391 
CLIP AND SAVE CUP AND SAVE 
SAVE UP TO I SAVE UP TO 
$4.00 : $5.50 
1-10" PIZZA WITH I 1-14" PIZZA WITH TOPPINGS OF YOUR : TOPPINGS OF YOUR CHOICE I CHOICE 
FOR $4.50 I FOR $6.50 
THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA cO: THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. 
-WE DEUVER FREE-I -WE DELIVER FREE­
COUPON MUST BE PRESENTEDI COUPON MUST BE PRESENTED FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VAUD I FOR DISCCXJNT. NOT VAUD WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. I WITH ANY OTHER OFFER 
Expires After 11-25-17 I. ExplrM After~-~ . 
page 4 The Observer Monday, November 16, 1987 


'Chile project' scheduled 
By ANNE GALLAGHER according to Esmee Bellalta, can see a lot of poverty among News Staff the director of the Justice Edu­the people. Unrest and general cation Department at Saint tension keeps growing," he 
In an effort to show solidarity Mary's. said. 
with the Chilean people, Saint Much effort is being made by "Pinochet will decide when Mary's Justice Education De­the church in Chile under the the date for the next election partment and Student Body leadership of Cardinal Arch­will be and who the candidates Government are sponsoring bishop Raul Silva. will be. He could prolong the the "Chile Project," scheduled "It seems appropriate to in­date for another eight years,Nov. 16-17. clude a liturgy since the church and there is nothing the United 
Both organizations said they is playing such a major role," States or the people of Chile hope to increase awareness said Bellalta. "I think this proj­could do," he noted. "To know and raise funds to counter a ect is important because it that the United States is con­poll tax currently in effect un­gives us the opportunity to link cerned about this procedureder the regime of Chilean two sets of people who have will make people aware that strongman Augusto Pinochet. common goals but are in dif­there is a situation that needs The "Chile project'' will in­ferent situations." to be rectified." volve the presentation of a con­Bellalta's husband, Profes­tinuous slide show in the Great sor Jaime Bellalta, member of Currently, Chileans are Hall in LeMans, the showing of the Architecture Department struggling to hold their first the film "Missing" at 7 p.m. in at Notre Dame and a native of presidential election since the Carroll Hall and a liturgy in Chile, criticized the present po-military takeover by General
The Observer I Jim Carroll

Beer me LeMans Chapel at 12:15 p.m. litical state of the country and Augusto Pinochet in 1973. A poll on Nov. 17. spoke of the urgent need of sup-tax is in effect, which although 
Green Field was packed with exuberant Notre Dame fans last Saturday 

The slide show will deal with port for the upcoming election. only $5, is unaffordable for 
afternoon before the game. Refreshments flowed as tailgaters warmed 

Chilean geography and life un­"Presently, Chile is in an ap-many Chileans who average a 
up for what was to be a very memorable Alabama rout. 

der the present government, parent state of calm, but you monthly wage of $20-$40. 
Ortega to brief Mexican president 1··································­
* ,.. 
arrived at the Mexico City air­! ~ HAPPY ~ 
Associated Press Nicaraguan capital, to join him ; ~ * port Saturday. 
here. * * 
MEXICO CITY Nicaraguan and Mexican of­The arrival of the Ortegas * * Nicaragua's President Daniel ficials declined to say what Or­came as a complete surprise to : BIRTHDAY : 
Ortega made a surprise stop tega was doing on Sunday. Mexican officials. ,.. * here on his way home from the "We know nothing about his * * United States and said he would Nicaraguan Embassy activities. He arrived unexpec-; BOOLA ;
brief President Miguel de Ia spokesman Silvio Ordonez said tedly," Mario Enciso, the ~ ~ Madrid on a new Nicaraguan Ortega, who was accompanied Foreign Ministry spokesman * * proposal for a truce in the Con­by first lady Rosario Murillo on duty, said Sunday. "We !: KAT : tra war. and their six children, went out didn't know he was going to ~ * 
"Now is a good time to ex­for the day "to see the city." come." !: THEO ~
~ ...._ change views with President He declined to say where they A presidential press office of-!: MALIN I : Miguel de Ia Madrid, so he went other than probably to ficial, who spoke on condition ~ * knows directly the steps my Chapultepec Park, a vast city : NIKOS *
1

country is taking to comply" park. of anonymity, said Ortega will * · & ADMIRERS : with a Central American peace Murillo and the children flew meet with de la Madrid on Mon-* * 
plan, he told reporters when he in Saturday from Managua, the 

day. t•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••· 
You Want AReadable Portable? SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE: $2499 SPECIAL STUDENT PRICE: So readable the characters jwnp off the screen. More power. Less weight. And an IBM PC®-compatible $1399 operating system. Here's the Zenith Data Systems Z-181 PC ... a laptop with all the features of a desktop! And we can even put a spin on it... Now, the Z-181 Laptop PC can be yours at a great NOTRE DAMt: COMPUTER CENTER student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­COMPUTE~ATH BUILDINGstration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! DEMO LAB 239-5600 So stop by today. And while you're at it, ask about the Z-183 PC ... our most powerful laptop yet. See """"~ 1datasystemsyou soon! THE Cll.WJ1Y GOES IN BEFORE THE NAAE GOES ON  

Monday, November 16, 1987 The Observer page 5 
Security Beat 
Damage is estimated at $400. 
9 a.m.: A Student Health Center employee reported vandalism to the east side of the building between Friday at 7:15p.m. and Saturday at 8 a.m. Damage is esimated at $40. 
1:15 p.m.: A South Bend youth was apprehended by security for unlaw­fully possessing alcohol. 
6:45 p.m.: An Illinois resident re­ported that her car was struck while it was parked In Green field. Damage to her car is estimated at $200. 
7:45 p.m.: Security assisted the South Bend Police at a car fire at the intersection of Notre Dame and Angela. 
8 p.m.: A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet from his unlocked room. His credit card was later recovered by security of­ficers of a local retail store. A suspect has been identified and the investigation is continuing. 
8:06 p.m.: Security officers ap­prehended a student who was carry­ing a wooden traffic barricade to a fire in Green field. The student was also Intoxicated. 

8:20p.m.: An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of both license plates from his father's car while it was parked in Green field. His loss is estimated at $10. 
8:45p.m.: A South Bend resident was reprimanded for Indecent expo­sure in Green field. 
10:19 p.m.: Security discovered a door of the Administration Building had been vandalized between 4:49 
o.m. ~tnd 10:19 p.m. 
Sunday, November 15 
2:50a.m.: A Holy Cross Hall res­ident reported the theft of the license plate from his car that was parked in the Dfl lot. 
4 a.m.: A purse was turned in to the main gate and later returned to its owner. 
10:45 a.m.: An off-campus student reported the theft ofher car's license plate. The theft occurred in the 86 lot between 10 p.m. Saturday and 
10:30 a.m. Sunday. 
11:45 a.m.: APasquerilla East res­ident reported the theft of a back­pack from the South Dining Hall last Friday between I and 2 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $390. 
12:15 p.m.: Two South Bend resi­dents were found hunting on Univer­sity property northeast of Juniper and Douglas. The men were issued trespass warnings and escorted off University property. 
12:30 p.m.: A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft of keys from her room between Nov. 11 and Nov. 12. 
I :50 p.m. : An Illinois resident re­ported the theft of a hood ornament from his 1983 Mercedes that was parked in the Red West lot during the football game. 
2 p.m.: Security responded to a report of a car leaking gasoline near the Main Gate. The fire department was called to the scene for assis­tance. 
6 p.m.: A Farley Hall resident re­ported the loss of various ID's at the Women's Volleyball game on Friday, Nov. 13. Her loss is esti­mated at $40. 
Thursday, November 12 
6:30p.m.: A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet. books. and other items from his room between 6:30 and 8 p.m. last Wed­nesday. His loss is estimated at $175. 
9 p.m.: A Lewis Hall resident and a Breen-Phillips Hall resident re­ported the theft of a walkman tape player. a pair of jeans, and other items from their bookbags outside the raquetball courts in the JACC. The theft occurred between 7 and 8 
p.m. Their loss is estimated at $155. 
Friday, November 13 
11:47 a.m.: A Walsh Hall resident reported the theft of her wallet from the Huddle between 10:30 and 10:40 
a.m. Her loss is estimated at $164. 
12:10 p.m.: A Grace Hall resident rPported the theft of his radio and speakers from his car between 6 p.m. Thursday and 11 a.m. Friday while it was parked at Gate 6 of the JACC. His loss is estimated at $160. 
1:05 p.m.: A set of keys was found in Washington Hall and turned in to Security: 
3:20p.m.: A Holy Cross Hall res­ident reported that he lost his binoculars at the Stadium during the second half of the Boston College game on Nov. 7. His loss is estimated at $60. 
3:30p.m.: A Howard Hall resident reported the theft of her bookbag from the South Dining Hall at noon. Her loss is estimated at $100. 
3:35 p.m.: A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his bookbag from the South Dining Hall between 10 a.m. and I p.m. His loss is esti­mated at $35. 
6:35p.m.: An off-campus student reported that he lost his wallet some­where on the South Quad. His loss is estimated at $40. 
Saturday, November 14 
3:49 a.m.: A Grace Hall resident reported that his custom-made bike was vandalized while it was parked outside LaFortune Student Center. 
• Group Charters & Tours  • Card Tables  
• Restrooms  • Radios  
• Your DESIGNATED Driver  • Tape Players  

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617 

fine is accomplishing. It's just precedent is his major concern. a joke to everyone." District "It's not good to charge the stu­
Reaction 

2 Student Senator Sean Hof­dent body at large, but this is continued from page 1 fman said it was fair for the an unique case. A lot of student to participate in the food fights. student body to pay the dama­were involved. I don't think 
Sophomore Pam Zhulkie was ges because those responsible we're setting a precedent, but not at Notre Dame during the cannnot be pinned down. "It's there's no other way to cover food fights and noted that it is unfair for those who weren't damages." unfair for all students to pay there, but that's the way it (the Junior Mark Szkudlarek, who the damages because you can't penalty) works. was off-campus during the pick out who's responsible. Hoffmann noted that he does 
fights, noted that the $1,400 fine 
"Cancelling dining hall events not want to start another prec­was "a token gesture. Payingfor the semester was enough edent. "Students shouldn't 
the bill won't affect the stu­
punishment. People already think we'll bail them out for dents, while student govern­know that the administration is everything." · ment and the administration serious. I don't know what the Cooke said that setting a will be happy. Like a lot of 
things at Notre Dame, it's just a slap on the hand." 
William Hickey, director of Food Services, gave the $1,400 figure in food fight damages to John Goldrick, associate vice­president for Resident Life. Goldrick met with HPC mem­bers last week, stating that the student body is responsible for paying for the food fights be­cause a large number of 800 students were involved. 



A GLOBAL UNiVERSITY 
EDUCATION 
FORTIIE 

REAL WORLD 
Graduate degree p~(MA, PhD) in International Affairs with apolicyemphasis. 
Special fields: International bUsiness, development, eco­nomics, strategic studies. 
Area concen\litions: Latin America, Soviet Srudies and the Middle East 
I>Jal ~ p~ in in­ternational busmess (MBA­MA) and urban and regional planning (MURP-MA). 
Fellowships and other finan­cial aid available. Apply by February 1. 
GRADlm SCHOOL OF IN1'ERNMIONAL S1lJDIES UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123C CORAL GABLE$, FL 33124 (305) 284-4303 
Avis Hot Thanksgiving Breakaway. 
-------------------------------, 

When you rent from Avis, your money
SOUTH BEND 

goes a long way. Because right now Avis 
will give you a 'Red hot' rate on an economical Chevrolet Nova or similar compact-group car. Avis also offers low weekly SuperValue Rates on a full range of 
WEEKLY 
$99 SUBCOMPACT 
GM cars, including 8-passenger
l BRING THIS COUPON IN FOR A FREE ONE 
station wagons and
CAR CLASS UPGRADE 
luxurious Cadillacs. And of course,
-------------------·-----...1 
you11 always 

AVIS 
get the kind of fast, friendly service you'd expect from the company 

that tries harder. See your travel consultant for details. a.======.~e Or call 
Red hot 
Michiana Regional Airport 234-1024 
Rat~s are nondiscountable and sub,.ct to chaner wothout notice IINaolable or•lv on the crty s~trd above. Mon~murn'mallmum <hoy ~uiremenl>. one-way serv.ce Ires. advanc. dutonatoon rrstroctoons and blackouts apply. Rei oonal COW. 1'1'.1, PEP and 101 moles on eacru ot the free milrate allowance 
Viewpoint 
Monday, November 16, 1987
page 6 

Investment merely fortifies apartheid 
Editor's Note: The following column was received before the Board of Trus­tees' decision of last week. 
When we look at South Africa there is one thing we can all agree upon. Apartheid, the institutionalized ex­ploitation and degradation of black South Africans, is repulsive. 
Gregory Maggetti 
guest column 
Under the system of apartheid blacks are denied virtually all political, eco­nomic, and social rights; they are legally denied the right to vote, to receive a proper education or decent employment. Eighty-seven percent of the land is set aside for whites, while thirteen percent of the land, the poorest land, has been formed into bantustans or "Homelands" where Mricans are forced to live. These homelands are not economically viable so men and women must go to "white areas" to find work. Apartheid prohibits Mrican families from living together in "white" cities, so supporting a family entails destruc­tion of black family life. The health sit­uation is appalling with a serious shortage of doctors and medical ser­vices for blacks. As for education, suf­fice it to say that it is free and compul­sory for whites while blacks must pay and their children are not required to attend. 
It has been argued that foreign in­vestment in South Africa is a positive force for change and that it can lead to the dismantling of apartheid. Between 1960 and 1981 U.S. investment in South Mrica increased ninefold. What were some of the positive changes that oc­curred during this 21 year gestation period? Many black political organiza­tions, including the African National Congress (ANC) which was established in 1912, have been banned. More than 
3.5 million blacks have been forcibly removed from "white areas." In 1976, 600 children were killed and thousands more wounded for peacefully protest­ing the government's insistence on using both English and Afrikaans as languages for teaching. Foreign firms have provided the investments and technology needed to build up a strong police and military force which not only keeps black South Africans in their al­lotted space but also insures that neigh­boring states remain sufficiently de­pendent on the South African economy to prohibit any independent develop-
Doonesbury 
GarA SllJKt, 
PAL.~ 
\ 
ment. And finally, despite changes in petty apartheid, the systematic denial of political, economic, and social rights to blacks is as firmly entrenched as ever. 
In light of these results, advocates of foreign investment in South Africa realize that investment alone is not au­tomatically a positive force for change. Definite steps on the part of foreign companies had to be taken to improve the situation for blacks. So in 1977 Rev. Leon Sullivan, a member of the board of General Motors,. devised a code of conduct for foreign firms. This code consisted of six principles: desegrega­tion of the workplace, fair employment practices, equal pay for equal work, job training and advancement for blacks and improvement in the quality of workers' lives. These principles are laudable in themselves. Yet when we consider that the "Sullivan principles" don't come close to the core of apar­theid (disenfranchisement, population control, removals, detention and ban­nings) and that even if all U.S. corpo­rations in South Africa strictly adhered to them it would only affect one percent of the black work force, we see that they are not simply ineffective but ir­relevant for tearing down apartheid structures. (Interestingly, Rev. Sul­livan has come to recognize this fact and now urges all U.S. companies to get out of South Africa altogether.) 
When we consider the words of John Vorster, former South African Prime Minister--"Each trade agreement, each bank loan, each new investment is another brick in the wall of our con­tinued existence" --we begin to see that foreign investments are the very bricks that build the apartheid prison. 
How can we help free black South Africans? We can help tear down the walls of the prison by refusing to invest and ceasing all business in South Africa. Economic sanctions threaten the very existence of South Africa's apartheid system. In the words of South Africa's Director General for Finance, Chris Stals, "if the world banking com­munity should effectively exclude South Africa from international trade and payments systems ...it would put us on the barter system overnight." If the world stopped doing business with South Africa altogether the economic foundations of apartheid would effec­tively be shut down. 
So we have two theories about foreign investment and apartheid. Foreigners say that investments in South Africa will bring about an end of apartheid. 
YfAH. I JUST 50lJ) (}(IT 7D THE MOB. 
THe M08GIVE$Me 
M16RAIN&S. eN[) 
~570RY. 
\ 

White South Africans say investments will keep apartheid strong and disin­vestment will threaten its very exis­tence. What do black South Africans say? As far back as 1959 they called for international economic sanctions against South Africa. Nobel Peace Laureate Albert Luthuli, president of the ANC at the time, saw the full im­plications of such actions--"the eco­nomic boycott of South Africa still en­tail undoubted hardship for Africans. We do not doubt that. But if it is a method which shortens the day of bloodshed, the suffering to us will be a price we are willing to pay." African leaders continue to call for economic sanctions as the one alternative that might reduce the bloodshed resulting from black emancipation in South Africa. 
Now here is a disturbing thought. Despite the fact that history has shown that investing in South Africa supports apartheid, and the fact that South Africans, both black and white, have stated the same, Notre Dame has con­sistently argued that the University should not divest from South Africa. 
The irony is that an institution renowned for teaching principles of peace and justice has been a promoter of injustice in practice. If this support were unwitting it might be excusable. But the fact that Notre Dame has main­tained its investments in South Africa, despite the fact that conditions there have deteriorated beyond the point where our own investment policy calls for disinvestment, is damning indeed. 
The next Board of Trustees meeting is on the weekend of November 13 and 
14. Once again they will review the policy of investing in South Africa. It is inconceivable that the members of the Board could still be ignorant of the real effect of our continued participa­tion in the South African economy. Therefore, we can hope to see a decision to divest from companies doing any business with South Mrica. Anything short of this would continue to under­mine the struggle for justice in that country. 
Gregory Maggetti, a graduate student in economics, is co-chairperson of the Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network. 
P.O. Box Q 
Apartheid may harm nascent labor force 
Dear Editor: 
The Notre Dame Board of Trustees is about to make a decision of far reach­ing consequences. Will they or will they not disinvest all assets with ties to South Africa? The issue is complex. Even though there can be no hesitation in con­demning the immortality of the politi­cal practice of apartheid, the proper reaction on the part of morally sensi­tive individuals and institutions presents a far more complex situation. Any movement in the sphere of eco­nomic decisions necessitates great cau­tion. 
Where is the wisdom when, in at­tempting to achieve a good, one adopts a policy of walking out and abandoning the very position from which one may, sooner or later, exert an influence for good? 
On Sept. 17, the New York Times had a very interesting article, "South Africa Trade Now Led By Japan." An excerpt from this article may be worthy of consideration: " ...Japan has made significant inroads into the busi­ness once held by American com­panies ... The biggest Japanese advance in recent years has been in areas where American products once dominated: mainframe computers ... chemicals and automobiles ... " 
The labor movement in South Africa, an enormous potential power base, is now in an infant stage of positive de­velopment which is just beginning to reflect a sense of self awareness. It is an undisputed fact that the South African economy cannot exist without black participation. Imagine the influ­ence one could exert if, instead of aban­doning a position, one used it to provide further encouragement to this emerg­ing labor force? 
Divestment may be a satisfactory ve­hicle by which one may express pas­sionate opposition to an immoral sys­tem, but to what effect if that same vehicle proves to be a crippling obsta­cle to the very means by which black South Africans may better themselves. Sister Margaret Virginia Blum, O.P. Caldwell, New Jersey Participant of Sabbatical Program for Church Leaders Nov. 11, 1987 
r-----------------------------~
Garry Trudeau 
UNreR. 
JOIN 
M&? 
I 

Quote of the Day 
"Imagination will often carry us to worlds that never were. But without It, we go nowhere." 
Carl Sagan Cosmos 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Choel . Kevon Becker Busmess Manager .. Bnan Murray Managmg Editor ... Mark PankOWSki Advertismg Desogn Manager David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

News Editor Chns Bednarski Advertismg Manager Melinda Chapleau News Edotor . J1m A1ley Production Manager Melissa Warnke The Observer 1s the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Voewpoint Edotor .. Chns Murphy ProJects Manager. Mark Mclaughlin Noire Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's Colleqe. It does not necessarily reflect the polic1es of 
Sports Editor Dennis Corngan Systems Manager Shawn Sexton the adm1n1stralion of Bither 1nst1tutoon The News IS repo~ as accurately and ot>,ectovely as Accent Editor. 
M1chael Naughton Controller Tracy Schondele poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the ma1onty of the Ed1torial Board 
Saont Mary's Editor Sandy Cenmele Graphoc Arts Manager Laura Stanton Cammer ·.,es. leners and the lnsode Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Edotor J1m Carroll 
•s avaol<. ·•1 members of the school commumty. and the free expressoon of varyong oponoons on camp,"' orough leners. IS encouraged 

Accent
Monday, November 16, 1987 page 7 

~'/_/'~~~ -~/~/~// 

The architecture program: 
'It's a way of life' 
SUSAN HRACH accent writer 

1\ rchitecture majors are mys· I1.terious people on this campus. Unlike the stereotypi­cal "Arkie," who is non-social, artsy and rather nocturnal, most Notre Dame Arkies are actually disciplined and well­rounded students who appreci­ate aesthetic beauty as well as a good party. 
The Architecture program 
involves majors as early as the 
freshman year, when would-be 
Arkies experiment with the dis­
cipline's demands in a studio 
course. Committment increases 
during the sophomore year, 
and it is then that some stu­
dents, still unsure about their 
decision to become architec­
ture majors, opt to leave the 
program. The third out of five 
required years takes place In 
Rome--an exciting change of 
scenery and lifestyle for the 
majors. 
Notre Dame is one of 
only three universities in the 
country with a full-year Rome 
program. Arkies receive out­
standing opportunities to travel 
and experience first-hand the 
work of the masters, not to 
mention the pasta at 
Giuseppe's, a local hang-out. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
The demanding fourth and fifth years require students to maintain a healthy sense of competition. "It's not cut­throat," explains fourth-year Arkie Joye Reno, "Everybody has their own talent." Stephen Kromkowski, another architec­ture major, adds that studying architecture at Notre Dame is extremely rewarding. "We don't deal with hypothetical, utopian projects," he says. 
As a fifth year student, Krom­kowskl is now working on his thesis project. "Design is end­less," he comments. His work entails restructuring a section of an actual city or town, right down to the plumbing and electricity. 
Venturing Into the Architec­ture Building, these students' "home away from dorm," one discovers why the Arkies enjoy their major and each other. City maps cover the walls of the upstairs studios, contribu­ting to the relaxed, lived-in aura of the building. Drawing tables are piled high with books and sketches; a radio plays from some unknown lo­cation under some papers. 
The Arkles wandering around this maze-like arrangement of rooms create a general feeling of comfortable friendship. The group, after all, Is part of the Arkie experience. "We're kind of in our own little world," Reno explains. 
Rome is only one of several unifying traditions for the Arkies. The Beaux Arts Ball, 
. held each semester, is "something totally crazy and radical for Notre Dame," as Reno describes it. Definitely one of the more unique events on campus, the costume ball is known for its flair and out­rageous atmosphere. It's likely that the Arkies owe their curious reputation in part to the Beaux Arts Ball, which Is always a much anticipated event. 
l;he Architecture building is currently housing "Expo Roma," an exhibit of work done by the students while in Italy. The Expo Is attended by visit­Ing architects and professors from around the country. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are encouraged to view the visually exciting work while sipping some real Cap­pacino. 
One architecture student sums up the dedication Arkles feel for their major: "It's a way of life; it's a profession. You've gotta love it." 
Bill Watterson 

1\1, SUS\£.. W\-lf..T 00 '100 11f..'lE toR llJ~\-1 TOI:»--'l?  !X)(\ E.I/EN ThLK TD tAE I ~~ ~~~~ ~ 1\£1\R 't\OW DISG\l'S\1~ 'IOJ "miNK til¥ UJNC\1 1'::.. lo\'1 l.\.lNQ.\ I<) titlE.  RElA'i.. I 't-IASNT C?OING 1tl Sfl.'i ~ "NC'i(\) ~'inll 'iOJR L.\.JNC\t Pl>.SS ME St>lo\E. SI\LT. Will. '{OJ I'Lt:JG.?  T\-1~~. 5\..\JGS M~. SJ ~£W'{ 'BttOR£ '{()lJ 51.\RI'IEL 'EM UP.  
I  

Soap update 
Lucy plans tea party on ·'General Hospital' 
All My Children: The bullet Coming:· Suspicions mount meant for Mitch hit Hilary, who about Autumn. was operated on by Jeff. Guiding light: Reva and Alan Travis was furious with Jack­went to Hawaii. Vanessa ac­son for financial maneuver­cepted Alan's marriage pro­ing. Damon broke into posal. Sally flew to Springfield Jeremy's art gallery and tried to tell Josh the truth about to electrocute him, but Marah. Jackson ordered Chel­blamed Silver for it. As Nina sea to sing wearing Beth's reconciled with Matt, Cliff was dress. Johnny asked Rick to shown to be alive. Coming: date Roxie. Coming: Chelsea Jeremy lays a trap for Damon. learns a lesson. Another World: Michael Knots Landing: Abby's past walked out, and Vicki an­suddenly intruded on her life nounced she was going with when her first love, wealthy in­him. Michael was revealed to dustrialist Charles Scott, un­be the twins' real father. expectedly came to town. Donna learned she was preg­Karen was dismayed by her nant, but received devastating sons' romantic involvements. news before she could tell Mi­A nervous Valene allowed chael. cass had a run-in with Gary to join her and the twins a mysterious woman, thenar­for dinner. Lilimae had an­ranged for Nicole to ride a dif­other encouted with the per­ficult horse which threw her sistend AI Baker. Coming: into the path of a truck. Com· Abby deals with new pre­ing: A marriage officially ssures. ends. Loving: Gwyt;t obeyed Clay As The World Turns: Duncan and fired Rick. In the midst of shot and killed Peirson in self­Clay and Ava's wedding, Ava's defense. James was sister Sherry gave birth to a presumed dead after an ex­baby girl. Rick seduced a tipsy plosion leveled Ruxton Hills. Cecelia after the ceremony. The police found Monica's Later, Cecelia was mortified to jewel-filled briefcase nearby. learn that Rick was In no po­Emily begged Paul to keep her sition to make her the pregnancy a secret. A venge­Amourelle model, and that ful Holden accepted Tonia's the job was going to Lilly. 
job offer, vowing to bring Coming: Lilly makes the most down Lucinda. Coming: Pam of her coup. gets a shock. 
Dallas: Chrlstopher's· reaction One 'Life To Live: Clint was to Pam's latest bad news left blind by a bullet fragment. prompted Bobby to take ac­Tina was exonerated after 
tion. Sue Ellen had problems Gabrielle got a polson scare with Nicholas, while J.R. ran from Tina's gift earrings and into Kimberly Cryder. April Maria's hair was found in the decided to investigate Pearce box. After hearing Elizabeth's following a case of mistaken susp1c1ons about Patrick, identity. Casey held a secret Cord found poison In Patrick's meeting. Coming: Jenna lab, but was trapped by him. gives her answer. A frustrated Clint left the Days Of Our Lives: Justin as­hospital and walked in front sured a distraught Adrienne of a car. Coming: Max and he wasn't involved in Stavros' Kate sense new problems. murder, and hoped she would Ryan's Hope: Uzzle hid her still marry him. Neil followed jealousy ofJohn and Nancy in Jo's advice about not taking front of Ben. Jack and Emily pills to keep up with Grace. woke up, horrified, when Shane and Roman used Diana Emily called for Richard in her as bait, but couldn't trap sleep. Jack and Emily dis­Serena. Jennifer was devas­cussed peoples' potential for tated by Laura's suicide at­violence as they went skeet tempt. Kayla, weak from Har· shooting. Coming: Pat acts on per's poison, called out for his suspicions. Patch. Coming: Diana and Santa Barbara: Gina's run-In Roman pledge their love. with C.C. left her blind. Cruz falcon Crest: Travis kid­was sentenced to life im­napped Richard and AngE;Ja in prisonment. T,J. faced a retaliation for a turndown. longer recuperation, causing Maggie hired an old friend to more problems for Laken and 
·plan a party for Richard's son, Ted. Tori stole money from Michael. On a plcnk with Mason for cocaine, then lied Joseph, Melissa got lost in the to cover It up. Pamela invited Australian brush. Nurse Har­Kelly and Jeffrey to share the row got Dina to sign over house Mason was buying for Lance's $500,000 check. her. Coming: Eden won't give Lance suspected that Frank up. Scott tampered with his car. 
Coming: Cole launches a The Young ~ The Restless: Faren's memory returned just
search. General Hospital: Terry sang as Evan was set to marry again. Duke confronted Car­Janet. Nina agreed to take ruthers about his penthouse $50, 000 from Kay and Jill and activities. Lucy planned a so­leave town. Lauren faced op­ciety tea party. Sean helped position from Fenmore's Herbert fleece Edward, but board of directors. A newly was caught with a beautiful wealthy Joanna suspected woman by Tiffany. Bobble in­Marc's motive. Gina saw Rex filtrated a ring of hookers to and felt certain he was her and find Melissa. Scorpio inves­Danny's father, Coming: Evan tigated Dottie's death, while gives Janet the news. Anna discovered that Autumn had been in an X-{ated movie. 1987, McNaught Synd. 

I 'l, I 


'­,, 
l',,
,, 
:I 
,I 
' 

,.,.~
..~ ..,.. ··. 
:-. . 
..... 

page 10 The Observer Monday, November 16, 1987 
Sports Briefs 
The men's cross country team has qualified for the NCAA championships. Notre Dame scored 109 points at the NCAA districts, topping Indiana's total of 81, and Wisconsin's 66. Details appear in tomorrow's Observer. The Observer 
In the NBA yesterday, Washington topped New Jersey, 113-109, Houston beat Seattle, 108­106, Milwaukee knocked off Atlanta, 112-103, and the Lakers topped San Antonio, 147-130. ­Associated Press 

IH football equipment return will be tomorrow at Gate 9 of the stadium for the following teams: Off-campus-6 p.m., Zahm-6:30, Alumni-7, Dillon-7:30, Fisher-8, Flanner-8: 30, Pangborn-9, Stanford-9: 30. Any · player who missed the first return date and needs to return all or any piece of equipment may do so at any of the above times. There will be a $5 fee for any full sets of equipment returned after each team's designated date. The Observer 
The deadline for rosters for the open flag football tournament has been extended to to­morrow. Sign-ups will be held in the NVA office and the dining halls. -The Observer 
SMC turkey trot registration forms are due today at 5 p.m. at the NVA office for ND students and faculty, and at Angela Athletic Facility for SMC students and faculty. The trot includes either a 3 or 5 mile run, or a 1.5 mile walk Thursday, Nov. 19. Call Tammy Radke at 5047 with questions. -The Observer 
Seniors 
continued from page 16 
But in this year's final game at Notre Dame Stadium, nobody in the Irish locker room was wondering what it takes to win, and nobody had to feel sorry for the seniors who had played their last home game. 
Saturday's 37-6 trouncing of 11th-ranked Alabama was a far cry from the disappointments of previous years and Holtz left little doubt as to who deserves the most credit. 
"This squad and what they have done is really rather amazing," he said. "That goes back to our seniors and their leadership." 
Football theory states that games are won on the offensive and defensive lines. It just so happens that seniors dominate these groups on the 8-1 Notre Dame squad. 
Four of the five Irish offen­sive linemen are playing in their final season of eligibility and six of the seven starters of the Irish front seven on defense are also seniors. 
Holtz put the veterans in charge of erasing the frustra­tion of years past at the begin­ning of the season and instilling a new outlook. 
"It all began with Coach Holtz," said co-captain Chuck Lanza. "The staff called on the seniors right from the start. "We have followed through on that challenge. We made an ex­ample to follow and the younger guys have done a great job of coming through." 
"This team started to play with pride, confidence and a really positive attitude," said co-captain Byron Spruell. 
The effect of the seniors showed in many areas. Ala­bama and Notre Dame each had 70 yards worth of penalty yardage, but with the exception of the unsportsmanlike conduct infraction on the first drive that led to a Tide field goal, the Irish were able to overcome the mis­takes on a regular basis, Ala­bama wasn't. 

Evidence two key plays that helped the Irish take control of the game. A first-quarter hold­ing penalty put the Irish in a first-and-20 position, but Brown quickly hauled in 22-yard pass to keep a touchdown drive alive to erase the error. 
But in the second quarter, Al­abama was caught offsides on a Ted Gradel field goal and the Irish turned it into a touch­down. 
Another intangible area is the mental approach, the pride that has filtered to the other team members. Evidence junior linebacker Ned Bolcar on winning all five home games for the first time since 1980. 
"The coaches and the older guys keep telling us this is our stadium and we shouldn't lose here," he said. "Everyone says it's so great to play here, well, we don't want it to be fun for them at all." 
Most of the Irish seniors tried to put the importance of the game above sentiments of the last home game -with mixed results. 
"We tried not to get over­emotional," said fifth-year nose tackle Mike Griffin, who had five tackles. "It's hard to step back and think about it ­you have to prepare for the present. It's a big win for the team." 
"It's great to go out a win­ner," said Brandy Wells, who played both cornerback and free safety. "But it's really im­portant that we beat a good team today. We're playing the best teams, but everyone's doing the job, and that's what it takes to win." 
"We were thinking that the emotions would come after the game," said Tim Brown. "But they came before, and it's tough to hold them back. But one we kicked off. we put it all behind us and thought about the game." 
The result of the attention was exclamation point to an un­beaten home season. And after experiencing the worst of times, filled with frustrations and near-misses, this year's seniors can look back at their last performance on the home turf with pride. 
''(Today) we had the right scheme and the right inten­sity," said Spruell. "It's the greatest. way to go out." 
"It's a special feeling," said Brown. "One that we will all probably be able to appreciate more when we are away from this place." 
"It's really an emotional high," said Lanza. "I can't think of a better way to end. 

"'11le a.--Notre o.me office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Centw, 8CCIIPIS claaalfled ectw.tl81ng from 10 Lm until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. 11le a.--Saint Mliry'a office, located on the third floor of H-ov-Collge c.nt•. M:CePIS cla&Ufleds from 12:30 p.m. untl13 p.m., Monday thn:lugtt Friday. Deedllne for next~ clualfledsls3 p.m. All claaalfleda muat
Classifieds be prepMI, eltt.r In pereon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five cher.:twl per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
ADOPTION: Loving couple, physiciar>j:lsycholog•st, deeply wishes to adopt newborn. Welcoming warm family. love. opportunities! Expenses paid. Le· gal. confidential. Call Ellie or Alan collact 212·724-7942. 
TYPING-WORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 
NO ELECTRICITY, PRIMITIVE ROADS, A FOREIGN LANGUAGE, AND THE CHALLENGE OF A LIFE TIME. All part of the life of service as a Roman Catholic missionary Priest, Brother or Sister. If you are up to the challenge, give us a call. CALL: Father Skip Aynn, Maryknoll Missioner (312) 787 ·8496 
TYPING 277-8131 or 237-111411 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU 
MRS.COKER,2~~ 
NEED RIDE TO PfTTSaURGH OVER THANKSGMNG BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL CAU KEVIN AT 2311­
5303...........______.... 
···························-······························-·..
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST mens eyeglasses, brown frames, on road to St. Mary's, d found pleaee call 2757 or leave at Badin 419. 
I LOST MY BLACK VAURNET SUN­GLASSES DURING THE FOOTBALL GAME LAST SATURDAY. THEY HAVE A LOT OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ME. THERE IS A $$$$ REWARD! LIZ AT X2934 
....................................... ····················· 
FOUND:Camp Beverly Hills sunglasses 
1n the Engi.-ring building. Call Siobhan 
at 288·5229. 
........................................................ 
FOR RENT 
Laaee this 2B~ ape"'ment now for epring aemeater and move in anytime. S325mo. inctudee utilities. Call 232·9239. 
Now showing for 8'1188-6ti,S9 lease. 6BR, 2 bath house on bus line. Call 232· 9239. 
I AM SUBLEASING MY APARTMENT LOCATED AT 820 NOTRE DAME AV.. IF INTERESTED. PLEASE CALL XAVIER AT 288-8923. 
~-W_A_NT_E_D~~ 
Need ride to Central Illinois Nov 20 or 21 call Kevin x1121 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
TRAVEL PROMOTERS WANTED EARN HIGH COMMISSIONS e FREE TRIPS I FANTASTIC BUSINESS EXPE­RIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME! MMI people and g•ln recognition on your campu• a• an Ent-lnment Toura Sprlng BrMk Trlp Campu• Rep.....,. 18tlve. Call toll ,,..1-800-525-1838 and ..k lor Ent-lnment Toura. 
Ride needed FROM Cleveland TO South Bend on 11129 (End of break) Call Maggie x4670 
.......... ....................... 
Celestina and roommate need ride to Northern New Jersey area lor Thanks· giving. Can leave 11·24. Please call at 
£3468. 
HELP Need Ride To Wash. D.C. area for break call Kim 284·4452 
Need ride to Cincinnati,OH. for Thanks· giving Call Jim x1216 
NEEDED: PRINTER; EXPERIENCED, PART-TIME EVENINGS. FOR A.B. DICK 380 PRESS AND BINDERY. HOURLY AND BONUS. CALL 289-69n. 
I NEED A RIDE HOME FOR THANKS· GIVING NEAR SENECA, ILLINOIS. ITS SMALL, SO IF YOU'VE NEVER HEARD OF IT, ITS BETWEEN JOLIET AND OT· TAWA WEST ON ROUTE 80. CALL KATHY AT 3590 IF YOU CAN HELP. 
I M8d a ride to Penn State. Can you help me? Anne £2126 
I M8d a ride to PHILA area leaving Fri 11a0 and returning after Thanksgiving. Please call Colleen at 2537. Thanxl 
•.....•t •..••••••••••••••.••••••••••.••••••. 
WANTED: RIDER TO WISCONSIN 12-3 to 12-8. 272-4114. 
Helpill I need ride for TWO to: Waahlngton DC •naa for Thankaglvlng reunion •t home! able to leave Tues. night or Wed. morning. Will share usual Please call Susan at 283·3838 
I need a student to create a collage of old newspaper clippings. I will pay the nghl person handsomely. Need for Christmas. Call Debbie 2n-3857 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: AIRLINE TICKET. 
WASH. DC to SOUTHBEND, JAN. 10. 
CHEAP. CALL 2n·8264. 
~~--T_IC_K_a_s~ 
MIAMI plane ticket 
For Sale 
Leaves South Bend Thursday. Nov. 26, 
returns on Sunday, Nov.29 
Call Sean at 2266 
NEED GA'S FOR PENN STATE. 272· 8305. 
NEED GA'S FOR PENN STATE. 272· 8305. 
SPYRO GYRA TICKETS Second Row· friends can't use them. At cost Call Bob or leave message. 271-Q740 ............................................................ 
PERSONALS 
What we want and what we need Has been confused Has been confused · R.E.M. 
I NEED A RIDE TO EVANSVILLE, IN.. FOR THANKSGIVING. IF YOU ARE GOING TO OR NEAR THE EVANSVILLE AREA, PLEASE CALL BETH, £2601. I WILL SHARE EXPEN· SIVES. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
THE JOB YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED bu1 were afraid lo talk about The idea hi1 you years ago and you've never ad­mitted it to anyone. NOW'S THE TIME. Give yourself and us a chance. Become a Roman Catholic Priest, Brother or Sister. The Maryknoll Missioners ·A con· temporary.professional Roman Catholic response to our world. CALL: Father Skip Aynn (312) 787·8496 
COGSWELLS WE'RE ALWAYS THINK­ING ABOUT YOUI LOTS OF LOVE . CHRIS MARK TOM JUSTIN ROB DUGS SONNY CHUCK MARTY PAUL 
TERRIE'S TYPING word processing resumes laser printing close to campus 1.50(ss) 1.25(ds) 287·1283 

GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOSMC SUPPORT ·EDUCATION ·SOCIAL FOR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION, WRITE TO BOX 194; NOTRE DAME. IN 46556 
TO THE GORGEOUS SMC FLASHER 
FROM HOLY CROSS: 
WE MET AT CAMPUSVIEW. YOU 
MADE HALLOWEEN A REAL TREAT. 
DROP ME A LINE SOMETIME. 
A LONG DISTANCE ADMIRER 
Ride needed to Champa1gn, IL lor Thanksgiving. Call Jeanne x2117 or Bea x3462. 
You need MONEY and I need Penn St. GAo. Harry 1398. 
RIDERS NEEDED GOING EAST I drive the Ohio Turnpike,through Cieveland,on to Erie,then NY 17 to OleanW1II drop off anywhere along the way.Leaving Tues at 1 :00. Call Laune at 2959 
I am only a freaken geeken happy camper when you are around. 
SOPHOMORE MOVIE NIGHT SOPHOMORE MOVIE NIGHT SOPHOMORE MOVIE NIGHT Tonight at 8:00 pm LaFortune TV Room
............... 
"T~.!!!':~.:':':!!'g" 
REACH out to your friends abroad with a personal ad in FOREIGN RELATIONS' REACH NEWSLETIER only 50 cents tor up to 20 worda!l buy as many 20-word blocks as you likeII write your ad, put rt WITH YOUR MONEY in an envelope in Mary Bergeof'oreign Relations' mailbox and we'll do the reat. 
............................ 
2 persons in nead of ride to Albany,NY for turkey break. Got room, call Mo 284· 5409 
•··················· NEED A RIDE TO LA CALIFORNIA FOR THANKSGIVING? Round·trip tix from Chicago ONLY $145.00! Call Susan 3879. 
Want to party at Penn State some weekend(not NO game)wilh some friends? Have a car? I'll ride with you and pay. Call Tom-3247. 
.............................. R--Th•nkl to you, your roommatea peat and p<Menl and all your trtend8 lor ouch • gnaat WMkand. I only wtah -could lind you eech an app...,la­llon ban.an.a. Come -u• aomellme., 
Lova, Mr. & Mra. T. 
...................,............ RIDE 
NEEDED TO ROCHESTER NY FOR THHANKSGIVING CALL JOHN 2236 
SPRING BREAK '88 SOUTH PADRE ISLAND Roundtrip Air -Chicago -Harlingen March 12-19 -$280 $40 Non-Refundable depoall due to: Travelmore Office In LaFortuna by Nov. 25. Caah or Local Check ONLY F5Mondaya -8:30 am -7 pm Tuaaday-Frlday ·8:30 am-4:45 pm 
Say hello to Terry Anne. her Personal hfe beg•ns today. 
CE and JA Denny's was a great ttme but I wtsh I had some company. DB 
Attention world, espec1ally g•rts over 15! Today is Matthew Gordon Hough·s 22nd B·Day! (Dude, we found out) Love from your pals, DD.Hormones.Orgo. and 
Brundleffy 

Help! I lost my bmoculars dur~ng the Boston College dr~nkfest, either 1n the stad•um. at a ta•lgater. or around the Moms Inn They are your slandard black binoculars w1th a black plastic strap. The brand name IS Jason. So desparate that lm w•llmg to pari with my Prane View A and M t•cket' Two milliOn dollar reward Please call Pete at 283-3105. 
I'm sorry I didn't call. I don't know your phone £. we can still work someth•ng out PLEASE REPL VI LUIS V 
Kath, this one goes out to the one I love. The last one went out to the one I left ... BEHIND. 
stand1ng on the shoulders of GIANTS leaves me cold . 
A young Scottish boy wishes to set the world record in receiving post cards. He is lerminally ill. Help him by writing to Little Buddy. P.O. Box 76, Paisley Renfrewhire, Scotland, UK. Postage is 33 cents. 
Bill Webb I really wish you hadn't done that I will never lorgive you. 
SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH 
SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH 
SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH 
SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH 
SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH SWATCH 
WATCH FOR THE NO SWATCH! ······················ ··················· 
AFTER BEING RUN OVER BY THE GATSBY-TYPE CAR, HE WAS RUSHED TO THE HOSPITAL WILL HIS DREAM EVER COME TRUE? 
AMl'·l'm the guy at the Brare. Would like to meet also . .IDEAS? 
ORANGE BOWL ORANGE BOWL ORANGE BOWL ORANGE BOWL T-11115 Thanx for making the lall 2 yra. ao apeclol. You are a great B.F. I love you! Alwoya, K. (eak..tlull.) 
TOM M ·Roses are red. V1olets are blue, I th1nk you·re hot, lve gol my eye on you! 
ALL OF BUTCH GOGLIARD'S FRIENDS, HIS NEW NAME IS BUSTER THIS IS REALLY WHAT HE WANTS TO BE CALLED!! 
Attentton 1 Anyone who st1ll had film left at the end of the Alabama game and got PICtures ollhe l1eld mayhem. Ill pay you lor cop•es Call today Slug, 283·3105. 
Ever been unfatrly accused of betng de­mented? Ltke mustc and books that are repulstve to your roommates? Want to be published 1n a free. non·protrt , If· regularly published spew of blather? If so. call R1ck at 1303 or wr~te the Transcendentalist Club at 213 Zahm or 
P.O. box 80812. St. Clair Shores. Mic· h1gan. 48080. Don·l put it off! 
TO THE ONE AND ONLY SKIING OM· NISCIENT, YOU ·YOU WEAR -YOU WEAR DIRTY ·YOU WEAR DIRTY -SOCKS! GOOD LUCK TONIGHT AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY. WE LOVE YOU. 
ORANGE BOWL OR NOTHING DON'T GIVE IN TO THE COTION BOWL'S BLACKMAIL 
AlTENTlONI 
ATIENTIONI Today is Michele Slrn.a'• 20th Birthday In honor of her entrance into a new ex­erting decade of life we dedicate the fol· low1ng verse to Michele· 
................................... 
Roses are Red Violets are gay Cal/ Michele at 1331 and wish her a happy b-day 
Roses are Red Violets are yellow Applications are now being taken For Michele's new fellow 
Roses are Red Violets can think Do the right thing And buy Michele a drink 
Roses are Red Violets don't rhyme Micheie. eventhough you heve a test and three programs due tomorrow Have a good time! 
Happy Blrthd8y & Welcome to the AMI World (Beyond the Teen•) 
Lots of Love Tracy, Anastasia, and Dana 

Monday, November 16, 1987 The Observer page 11 
Reserves Vince Sutton and The Notre Dame offense, That was the longest run moving the ball against a quick Billy Ray could not lead the Al­sparked by sophomore signal­from scrimmage by a Notre Crimson Tide defense. But the abama offense to any points the caller Tony Rice and the usual Dame back this year and the Irish racked up 465 yards to Al­
Rout 
continued from page 16 
rest of the way. assortment of ball-carriers, longest under second-year abama's 185. 
The last time the Crimson Tide lost by as wide a margin was in 1957, when Auburn shut out its state rival, 40-0. 
The seventh-ranked Irish upped their record to 8-1 with their fifth-consecutive victory. 
The Notre Dame defense forced Curry to use three dif­ferent quarterbacks in· the game, and allowed only a pair of first-half field goals by Phil­lip Doyle. 
Tide starting signal-caller Jeff Dunn left the game with 28 seconds left in the first half, after he was knocked out of bounds by Irish outside linebacker Darrell Gordon and suffered a minor head injury. 
"We (the Irish defense) just played well fundamentally and with a lot of intensity," inside linebacker Wes Pritchett noted. 
Bobby Humphrey, Ala­ba!Da's all-America tailback, gained 94 yards on 14 rushes and had 214 all-purpose yards. 
"We knew they would try to give the ball to him," Pritchett continued. "We didn't change anything. We just did our jobs and it worked out." 
Outside linebacker Cedric Figaro led Notre Dame in tackles with seven, while de­fensive back Brandy Wells and inside linebacker Ned Bolcar added six apiece. 
StudentTravel Network would like to invite you to celebrate the New Year london-style; partying down the Thomes River in a gloss boat with other student travelers. There'll be music, plenty of dancing and some­one to guide you through the sights you'll be seeing as you soil along lon­don's celebrated waterway. A buffet will be served; wine, beer and soft drinks ore also free. All you hove to do is purchase vour round-trio ticket to london from STN. Chicago fore 
389·
from~ STUDENT 
TRAVEL NETWORK 

ICAGO (312)525•922 COMEJOINTHEFUN-WithSTN! 
scored on four of its first five possessions and opened a 20-6 halftime lead. 
Rice dashed into the end zone from 12 yards out on a second­quarter option play to give Notre Dame its first lead, 10-3. He then completed his first career touchdown pass later in the quarter on a fourth-down play, a three-yard loft to tight end Andy Heck that made the score 17-3. 
The remaining Irish touch­downs were enough to make the Notre Dame fans wish they had a few Florida orange trees with them in the stands. 
Junior tailback Mark Green, who gained 149 yards on 18 carries for his third straight 100-yard game, struck early in the fourth quarter. Green took a pitch and burst through a big hole on the left side, racing down the sideline for a 74-yard 

Irish coach Lou Holtz. Green held that record for a whole six minutes. 
Freshman tailback Ricky Watters improved on Green's mark by one yard, sprinting left, weaving through defenders and cutting back to the right side en route to a 75­yard touchdown with 4:01 left to play. 
Ted Gradel made good on all three Notre Dame field-goal at­tempts and all four extra points to account for the rest of the scoring. The senior was accu­rate from 49, 21 and 22 yards. 
"It's like I told Bill Curry after the game," Holtz said. "I said, 'Bill, you just picked a bad day to play us in South Bend.' We were very emotion­al, and our defense was ab­solutely tremendous." 
Holtz expressed concern before the game that his of­fense might have trouble 
~[FJ@[RJIJ~ 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 8:00PM 
MORRIS QVIC AaDITORICJM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
11CKETS ON SALE ronAy 
nc::K!TI AVM.MU. AT 1H! CMC 
-IIOX Ofi'OCL
-(Nt&l-""""'
~OWL). ......... 
-........."&1\A POOm). OtAIIGI!ft­
141f..a4-t110 

FREE 32 oz. SOFTDRINR 

Join us for "MEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatball Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 

Offer valid only on Monday Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 
"This football team has to­tally amazed me," Holtz con­tinued. "This was a total team effort." 
It appears Notre Dame is bound for Dallas and the Cotton Bowl on Jan. 1, to play the win­ner of the Southwest Confer­ence (either Texas or Texas A&M). Representatives of the Orange Bowl said they have not decided which school will receive a bid to play the winner of this Saturday's Oklahoma­Nebraska game in Miami on New Year's Day. 
They said they are looking at Miami, Syracuse, Florida State and Notre Dame. With bids coming out in less than a week and no bargaining under way between the Orange and Cotton Bowls, however, it ap­pears likely that the bid will go to Miami before Notre Dame gets the chance to play the Hur­ricanes on Nov. 28. 
"If we go 10-1 with the schedule we have, I definitely think we deserve the right to play for a national champion­ship," Brown said. 
EXTRA POINTS -Gradel's 49­yard field goal in the first quar­ter was the longest of his career. His previous best was 44 yards against both Michigan and Purdue earlier this season ... Sophomore cornerback Stan Smagala suffered a minor con­cussion in the first half, but is expected to practice as usual this week ... Notre Dame was penalized 15 yards when the student body was charged with unsportsmanlike conduct for throwing oranges. The crowd was first warned. 
Alabama  3  3  0  0  6  
Notre Dame  3  17  3  14  37  
Scoring  

BAMA · Doyle 34·yard field goal NO · Gradel 49-yard field goal NO • A1ce 12-yard run (Gradel kick) NO · Heck 3 pass from Rice (Gradel kick) NO · Gradel 21 -yard field goal BAMA · Doyle 28·yard field goal NO · Gradel 22·yard field goal NO · Green 74-yard run (Gradel kick) NO · Watters 75·yard run (Gradel kick) 
Bama NO First downs 10 17 Rushing attempts 34 52 Net Yards Rushing 135 348 Net Yards Passing 50 117 Passes comp-attempted 9·29 5·9 Had intercepted 1 0 Total Net Yards 185 465 Fumbles-lost 1·1 2·2 Penanies-yards 8·70 7·70 Punts-average 8·44.4 3-49.6 
Individual Leedera 

RUSHING· Alabama: Humphrey 14·94; K. Goode 5-15; P. Goode 1·1t; Dunn 4·9; Abney Hl; Notre Dame: Green 18·149; Watters 4·81: Rice 9-30; Brooks 3·30; Johnson 4·26; Banks 6-16; Brown 2-7; 
PASSING· Alabama: Ray 12-6-1, 33; Dunn 14· 3-0. 17; Sutton 3-0-0, O; Notre Dame: Rice 8·5-D. 117; K.Graham 1-o-1. 0; 
RECEIVING · Alabama: Cross 3·35; Humphrey 3·9; Whitehurst HI; Allen 1·1; K. Goode 1·(·3); Notre Dame: Brown 4·114; Heck 1-3; 
Attendance • 59,075 

~ ~ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------........................... 
Champs 
continued from page 16 
Farley began the scoring on its very first drive. After quar­terback Carol Elliott com­pleted two big passes, she then ran an option in from the three­yard line to put the first points on the board. The conversion was successful, making it 8-0. 
The rest of the first half 
belonged to BP, as it scored two 
touchdowns. 
The first TD came on a 16­yard pass from running back Ann Curoe to Carolyn Burke, a play similar to one the team used last week against Lyons. The conversion was good to make the score 8-8. 
After a punt by Farley, BP was at it again, this time with quartrerback Teresa Coombs connecting with Carolyn Burke for a 31-yard strike. With a suc­cessful conversion, the score was 16-8 in favor of BP, and 
Celts win, 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-K.C. Jones isn't satisfied that the Boston Celtics are off to their best start since 1972. 
"We've got to be more con­sistent. We took some bad shots out there and shot selection really worries me," Jones said after the Celtics beat Indiana 103-98 Sunday to bring their record to 6-0. 
Larry Bird scored 11 of his 24 points in the first quarter, when the Celtics took the lead for good. 
Boston, off to its best start since it opened with 10 victories in 1972, made 10 of its first 13 shots and shot 68 percent (17­of-25) in the first quarter. 
"We came out a little soft in the first quarter and gave them that was the way it ended at halfback Margaret Johnson the half. brought the ball down to Far­

The second half saw a ley's 11-yard line. The touch­renewed, but very temporary, down was scored by another Farley attack. After two unsuc­Coombs-Burke combination, cessful drives by both teams, this time an easy square-out in Farley got the ball back on an the endzone. Margaret Johnson interception by cornerback Jen scored the conversion and the Bonnvecio. final score was 24-16. 
With this renewed momen­"We played really well," tum, Elliott went to work. With said Carolyn Burke, who two 20-yard passes, one to wide scored all three BP touch­receiver Colleen McGillis and downs, "The victory was great. one to Kara England, Farley "This was our year. We went was at midfield. Elliott then out there to win and we did it." connected a 25-yarder to En­Burke also scored all four gland, and then another 25-TD's for BP last weekend yard pass to McGillis for the against Lyons. touchdown. 
The score was then 16-16, and "The girls worked hard this the game looked like it might season and I'm really happy to go into overtime. see them win," said offensive 
The BP offense was deter­coach Dan DeBoer. "We mined, though, and they worked them hard and they marched down the field for an came through." easy score. Defensive coach Jeffrey Elia 
Starting from its own 43, echoed DeBoer's thoughts. BP's drive looked effortless. A "It was all the girls," he said. pass from Coombs to right "It's been a long time coming." 

• Breen-Phlllips was able to stop Farley's reign as lnterhall football champs. Scott Brutocao has the story beginning on the back page.
rema1n undefeated 

36 points. We can't afford to do said. "They make good passes, that the way we shoot," In-they look for each other, plus diana Coach Jack Ramsay they make the outside shots." 
International Students 
.WEDNESDAY,

single or married (and families) are 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00
cordially invited to a traditional home-cooked 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM
Thanksgiving Dinner 
ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50
Friday, November 20 6:30pm 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT HE CIVIC AUDITORIUM

No charge, but call for~ 
BOX OFFICE, 
NIGHTWINDS (NILES ND NORTH VILLAGE 
reservations space is 
;g£ 

limited: 19525 Pendle · 
MALL). SUPER SOUNDS (ELKHART)
277-8471, ask for Bill or Deb 
AND J.R."S (LAPORTE).
Short Program will follow 
CHARGE BY PHONE:
Sponsored by Campus Fellowship 

........................,,,..,,,,,,,,........~...,,,,,,,,,. 219-284-9190 
ppy Birthd JULIE ProfessionalVISion Eye Exams 
large Selection of Frames
. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts
We Love You, 
Mom, Jenny, JoAnn, 

20% DISCOUNT 
Pete, Jeff, Vickie, 

TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
Doug, Jill, Jeff Jr., 

1635 N. Ironwood 1341 Portage
P.J. & David 

277-1161 234-2400 South of U.S. 23 Martins Shopping Center 
We invite you to stop by, meet us, and talk about opportunities in Sales, Marketing and Purchasing. 
UPPER LOUNGE UNIVERSITY CLUB 

All NDISMC Seniors and MBAs are welcome.
November 17, 1987 

If available, please bring resume.
6:00 -8:00 p.m. 

5J-I,qPING Tl-IE FL/TUI?E -. • Inland Steel 
a subsldt/Wy of 
lnlttnd StePllndustrl85. Inc 


Monday, November 16, 1987 The Observer page 13 
-

Men's basketball squads tie in annual Blue-Gold contest 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN ward from Springfield, Ky., defense for the final10 minutes. Sports Editor looked impressive along the Sean Connor, who the Irish will baseline, scoring 14 points and rely on as their zone buster, 
The Notre Dame men's bas­grabbing two rebounds for the filled two-of-four three-point ketball team played its annual Blue squad. shots for the Blue and four-of­Blue-Gold intrasquad game Fellow freshman Tim eight from inside 19-9 for 10. Sunday night and proved that Singleton, a 6-1 guard from Sophomore Tony Jackson so far this team isn't going to New Orleans, showed burst of was the fifth starter for the beat itself. speed while running the Blue Blue squad and had five 
The 30-minute contest ended offense. He finished with two rebounds in 22 minutes. in a 58-58 when Mark Steven­points but dished out seven as­Scott Paddock chipped in 12 son, playing the latter parts of sists. points and two rebounds for the game for the Gold squad, Many eyes were also trained Gold while Joe Fredrick and powered in a layup with one on 6-9 foward Keith Robinson. Jamere Jackson added four and second showing on the clock. A sophomore, Robinson sat out two respectively. 
The Blue squad was paced by last season under the provi­Stevenson saw time with both senior co-captain Gary Voce's sions of Proposition 48. Robin­squads and finished with a 24 points and 10 rebounds, while son finished the evening with combined total of 18. senior co-captain David Rivers eight points and led the Gold The Irish will play an exhibi­knocked in 22. squad with eight boards. tion game against Zadar of 
Many eyes were turned to the The two squads played the Yugoslavia this Thursday eve­newcomers on this year's edi­first 20 minutes in man-to-man, ning at 7:30 and open their tion of the Irish and early but Irish head coach Digger regular season Dec. 1 at reviews were mixed. Fresh­Phelps also wanted his squad defending National Champion man Kevin Ellery, a 6-5 for-to practice zone offense and Indiana. 
-· 

Unforced turnovers stick out in women's intrasquad opener 
By BRIAN O'GARA halves. A total of 26 turnovers where she compiled a record of Assistant Sports Editor were committed in the game. 88-41 in five years. 
game. 
Only Blue team members Lisa "The press is coming along," 
The Notre Dame women's Kuhns, back from a knee injury continued McGraw. "The Gold basketball team kicked off the that kept her out last winter, team had our one, two and 1987-88 season last night with and freshman Sara Liebscher three players (point guard the annual Blue-Gold in­did not give the ball away. Mary Gavin, junior Diondra trasquad game held in the "I was happy with their in­Toney and sophomore Annie Joyce ACC. tensity,'' said McGraw of both Scwartz) so they were a little 
The final score was Blue 37, teams. "But we had too many quicker out there." Gold 30, but that is simply a turnovers. And they weren't Senior forward Sandy Bot­formality. forced errors, but most of the ham led both teams with 12 
Under first-year Irish Head turnovers were because of a points, while playing a strong Coach Muffet McGraw, Notre lack of concentration." inside game to key the Blue Dame is looking to improve last Down 13-10 at halftime and team's victory. Freshman season's 12-15 record, and is 25-14 with three minutes Karen Robinson led the Gold favored to win the North Star remaining, the Gold team ·set team with 10 points, including Conference title with the help up a full-court press to close two consecutive three-pointers of five returning starters and the gap to five points before the in the losing team's comeback eight monogram winners back. Blue team held on for the win. effort. 
Often, however, the Irish of "The Gold team did a good The Irish next take to the new looked like the Irish of old job coming back," said court on Wednesday in in this game of two 10-minute McGraw, who hopes to pick up LaGrange at Prairie Heights the pace of Irish basketball High School as they face the with a solid fast break and full­Wales National Team. The 


Nortmn 
Trust Bank iders

Y}DU prime. 
Northern Trust Bank, ofChicago, is one of the nation's leading financial insti­tutions, well known for our blend of sound financial principles and innova­tive products. If your graduation is slated for Spring '88 and you are interested in a career in BANKING•••Plan NOW to visit with our Representa-·~ 
tive on No~em-Northern Trust Bank 
ber 16th, 7pm­
9pm. Let your graduation welcome the 
end of a job search, not the beginning 
of one. Contact the Placement Office 

court press game plan, charac­LaGrange site is an attempt to teristic of her teams at Lehigh build community support. 
Let's all wish this little girl 
a Happy Birthday! 

~~<if~t?'li;~~~~1 
~~~~~ ~ ,P ~"I 
"'\lo" ~~ ' ~&i
'f:. \ SEND FLOWERS !A 
.,~ BEFORE THANKSGIVING BREAKI ~ 
for details. CoUege Recruiting Depart­ment, NORTHERN TRUST BANK, 
...

50 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, IL ~~ WE WILL CLOSE FOR BREAK ~ ~ 60675. An Equal Opportunity Em­fsv~ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24TH. ~,l, ployer M/F. 
~j>;;;r~:;~pt,i!~ 

'I 
NO Volleyball team sweeps weekend opponents
I 
By THERESA KELLY the weekend's best action, 12-by finding a seam between the fense gave them the momen­Freshman Amy White had 47 Sports Writer 15, 15-13. 15-13, 15-11. Irish front and back lines. tum and put them up 5-3, but assists at setter, a position she Notre Dame came back to tie defensive lapses through the first played for the Irish on 
The Notre Dame volleyball "We were obviously glad to at 10 behind the serves of Mary middle of the game gave the Friday against Marquette. team said good-bye to the Joyce win those last matches at Kay W alller but could only Irish an 11-8 lead. The rest of ACC Pit by winning its last home," said Irish head coach manage two of the next seven the game was a tough see-saw "I was happy with Amy three home matches against Art Lambert. "MSU was a bet­points as MSU took the early battle, but Whitney Shewman White's performance," Lam­Marquette, Valparaiso and ter team than Valpo or Mar­lead in the match, 12-15. and Maureen Shea put away bert said. "It was really asking Michigan State over the quette." In the second game, Colleen the final two points and the something to play her at setter weekend. Wagner gave the Irish a spark Irish tied the match at a game against Michigan State. She 
In the first game, the teams as they took a 3-1 lead and apiece, 15-13. made some errors, but that's Saturday night, the Irish traded points and side-outs un­fought for some tough side­to be expected. I was pleased defeated a tough MSU squad in til the Spartans took a 10-6lead outs. The Spartans' quick of-In game three, both teams with her attitude and efforts." 
played tough, refusing to let the Saturday's match was the other move far into the lead. A last home match for four Notre 
NFL roundup strong net game gave Michigan Dame seniors: Kathy Baker, State a 13-lllead, but Shea and Gretchen Kraus, Kathleen Amy White teamed up to tie the Morin and Jill Suglich. game at 13. A critical service "It was great to win our final
Colts finally defeat Dolphins 
error by MSU gave the Irish home match for the seniors," 
Associated Press the chance to win, and Zanette said Lambert. \ Browns 27, Bills 21 Vikes 23, Bucs 17 Bennett and Waller found the The Irish played a North Star \ The longest period of Bernie Kosar passed for 346 Chris Doleman forced two holes in the Spartan defense to Conference doubleheader on \ yards and two touchdowns, fumbles, both recovered by put the game away, 15-13. Friday, easily defeating Mar­
domination in the NFL is over, 

winning a quarterback duel Keith Millard, setting up 10 The Spartans jumped out to quette in the first match, 15-5,
and the Indianapolis Colts have 

;~ been pronouced a contender. with fellow Miami, Fla., Minnesota points and leading a 6-0 lead in game four, and it 15-5, 15-1. Later, they beat Val­alumnus Jim Kelly as the Vikings, 5-4, over Tampa looked like another marathon paraiso, 15-6, 15-6, 13-15, 15-8.
With the help of 154 yards 

Cleveland beat Buffalo. Kosar Bay. match Lambert welcomed the chance 
:'\} rushing and a touchdown from was in the works. But 
l 
Eric Dickerson, Indianapolis completed 24 of 33 passes and Other NFL scores Sunday: the Irish found a second wind to get a look at some of his beat Miami 40-21 Sunday, en­threw touchdowns of 15 yards New Orleans 26, San Francisco and battled to tie the score at younger players in a game sit­ding the Dolphin's 14-game to Reggie Langhorne and 52 24; Washington 20, Detroit 13; 11. Waller served the final uation. 
winning streak against the yards to Webster Slaughter. Los Angeles Rams 27, St. Louis three points for the Irish as "This was a good chance to Colts. Dean Biasucci kicked 24; New York Jets 16, Kansas they took the game 15-11 and get some players into the ac­four field goals for In­Oilers 23, Steelers 3 City 9; Cincinnati 16, Atlanta the match 3-1. tion," he said. "They may not dianapolis. Warren Moon threw two 10; Seattle 24, Green Bay 13, "The whole team may have have been the toughest oppo­
third-quarter touchdown and New York Giants 20, been a little tired," Lambert nents, but I was really pleased It was the longest winning passes to help the Oilers defeat Philadelphia 17. San Diego beat said. "Michigan State is a team with our freshmen." streak against one team in the the Steelers at Pittsburgh for the Los Angeles Raiders 16-14 we should have put down quick­The Irish will travel to West­
NFL, dating back to 1980 when the first time since 1978. at night. ly." ern Michigan Tuesday to take the Colts were in Baltimore. Shea led the Irish with 15 kills on the nationally-ranked The victory kept Indianapolis Broncos. in a first-place tie with the New 
York Jets in the AFC east with a 5-4 record. 
Dallas 23, Pats 17, OT 

Birthday
Herschel Walker broke a 60­yard touchdown run with 1:50 gone in overtime to lead Dallas over New England. Roger Ruzek of the Cowboys sent the 

Pineapple!
game into overtime with a 20­yard field goal with 28 seconds 'I left in regulation time. 
Walker's long scoring run came on a first-down play from the Dallas 40 and gave him 173 yards rushing on the day, a career high and fourth best in team history. 

I 
CalvertO.PbrwsL.a.ka 

Lany "Bad" llelman. America's huggy-bea.r 
cult figure and creator 
of'Ibastron-a.-Sttclt. BiubdDer. 
''Time Is I'\IIUllrlf! OUL 
I want. to have ch1ldren 
Wh1lef1\Y~ts&re 
.PhJll:~·=~«M~~ 
lodloolfOUlll 
~cans 
--11\Yll!eiiOm&I\Y Umo& ..& t.bY' 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20 8:00 PM STEPAN CENTER (DOORS OPEN AT 7:00PM) TICKETS: $7.00 FOR STUDENTS ($8.00 PUBLIC)-AVAILABLE AT THE CELLAR SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOARD 


Monday, November 16, 1987 The Observer page 15 
... 

Campus The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Temporary
12:05-1:15 p.m.: Open Forum on Child Care by Father Malloy's task force on 
living quarters
Marriage, Family and Other Life Commitments. All faculty, staff, employees 
7 Snooze 
11 Knock 14 Mention 
and students invited. Room 124, Center for Social Concerns. 
3:30 p.m. : John Duff, Commissioner of the Chicago Public Library will provide 
briefly
the latest chapter in the long story of Chicago's planning for a new central library. 
15 Mr. Knlevel
Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
16 Miss a 4:30p.m.: The Notre Dame Finance Club presents "The American Banker­
grounder 
17 "Four -In Three Acts" 
Bond Buyer" by Richard Tierney as part of its Financial Institutions Series. 
Hayes Healy Auditorium. 
18 Waterless
7 p.m.: Presentation !Reception for all Business and Arts and Letters students 
19 Golfer's need interested in discovering career opportunites with the Northern Trust Company. 
20 Saharan Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. Upper Lounge, University Club. 
21 Shy people 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Spaghetti & Shells with Sausage Sole Florentine Veal Parmesan Grinder Chicken Romano 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 



51 Disordered 53 An 
Eisenhower 55 Loon or grebe 57 Dutch export 60 Peruse 64 Fate 65 Lanky 66 Almost 68 Numerical 
prefix 69 Heraldic band 70 Gaudy 71 Wine word 72 Raise 73 Subject 
DOWN 1 Home: Sp. 2 Winged 
3 1,052 
4 Learned man 

11116/87 
" 
5 NYC time 6 Varnish 
Ingredient 7 Ruin 8 Finished 9 Nothing 
10 Football team 11 Dogs 12 Sharp ridge 13 Iron 22 Westerner 23 Upright 25 Neck part 27 Jacks of clubs 28 Bowfin genus 29 Regular 31 Unbeatable 
opponent 35 Part of a 

11114187 trip 52 Journeying for 59 A Raines 36 Squealer adventure 61 QED 38 Fateful date 53 Thaws part 39 Paris suburb 54 Dote 62 Der ­41 Cloth 56 Poisonous (Adenauer) 43 Old -, Conn. liquid 63 Coloring 46 Alpine singer 58 -and worker 49 Part hounds 67 Age 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

Wafcf.. #tose .Pesh -fanes, 5on­-/hey're f"ooyel/ow. .. How much -t-hey p~yih' yol.l for fh,s? 
8a.c!f ;,.., !J2t day we•d hniSh 4 ce;/in_9 ~+his ~;g in less +han t;~ weeki in -those do.ys we A~d to mak'e ow'" own br-ushes/ t/g~~~~~1
-t 
-
il·lfD 
#••··················•••*
:what's up this week $ $ with SUB : 
AT&T 
DRESEn T S 
CeLLi.Ci.Ce... I.DY 
'IJ 


Michelangelo's father 

AT&T College Comedy Tour 
with Emo Philips, Rita Rudner, and Larry "Bud" Melman 
FRIDAY, 8 pm Stepan Center 
Saint Mary's Ground Cheddar Beef Chicken Chimichanga Bacon & Egg Chef's Platter Deli Bar 

24 -city (slum 
area) 26 Amerlnds 27 lt. specialty 30 Wernher-
Braun 32 Born 33 A Carter 34 Participant 
37 107 40 Error 42 Milk drinks 44 Glut 45 Laughter 47 Legal matter 48 Printer's 
measures 50 Numerals: abbr. 
..·' ' 


Sports
Monday, November 16, 1987 page 16 
Irish do it all, bounce 'Bama, 37-6 
Dillon goes to the air to stomp Stanford, 24-0 
ND dominates 11th-rated Tide 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame student body was a little premature Saturday afternoon, hurling oranges onto the field in quest of a bid to the Orange Bowl. 
But you would never know it from the way the Irish threw an inspired defense and a big-play offense at nth-ranked Alabama, routing the Crimson Tide, 37­6, at Notre Dame Stadium. 
''After beating Alabama like we did today, we can go all the way," said Irish flanker Tim Brown, who caught four passes for 114 yards and compiled 225 all-purpose yards on 14 touches of the ball. 
"The only thing to say at a time like this is that we were whipped," Ala­bama head coach Bill Curry said. "We were beaten by a vastly superior foot­ball team. That was obvious. 
"Had we responded at our very best, I doubt seriously we'd have beaten this Notre Dame team today." 
see ROUT, page 11 

(i 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Was it Joe Montana? No. Was it Tony Rice or Kent 
Graham? 
Well... maybe not. But Dillon Hall's quarterback Mike Brammer weaved a little of his own magic on the grass of Notre Dame Stadium Sunday afternoon, as the Big Red stunned Stanford, 24-0, to cap­ture the men's Interhall foot­ball championship. 
Throughout the season, Dil­lon has relied on a powerful running game to compile a 7-1 record and a berth in the cham­pionship game. Sunday, though, the Big Red went to the 

:} air early and often, and stayed !j, there. Brammer passed 20 times in the game, completing 11 of those for 164 yards. Add to that 
1', 
a 31-yard option pass, and Dil­lon piled up nearly 200 yards in the air. 
"Our offensive coordinator Ross Perri decided this week to go with the pass," said Dillon coach Jeff Morgan. "(He did so) basically because he felt we've been slighted all year. Everyone knew we could run, but he knew we could throw the ball. Our offensive line played incredibly too." Dillon wasn't 'supposed' to win. 
The Studs dominated the reg­ular season and entered the final game brimming with con­fidence. 
"There's no reason for us not to be confident," said Stanford coach Al Martin last week. 
But within minutes of the opening play, Dillon was leading 3-0 and the Studs were reeling. Stanford started the game with the ball and went nowhere (four plays, nine 

Dlllon'a Mike Brammer had a big day as the Big football championships. Tim Sullivan detalla the Red pounded Stanford, 24-0, In the men'alnterhall action above. 
Seniors get win in home finale 
By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
Two years ago it was a case of bewil­derment. 
"I feel bad for our seniors, but the way we lost it, I feel bad for our whole team," said tl)en-junior quarterback Steve Beurelein after another tough loss, a 10-7 heartbreaker to LSU in the final home game of the 1985 season. "We played well but it just wasn't meant to be. 
"It makes you wonder what it takes to win." Last year it was just plain frustra­tion. 
"We had our chances and didn't win," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz after last season's 24-19 bitter loss to Penn State in the home finale. "This loss affects us -especially our seniors -very deeply. Other teams have made good plays against us and sometimes 
The Observer we don't do the little things we need Tony Rice heads for the goal line on his to." way to a 12-yard touchdown run. Marty Strasen details Notre Dame's Impressive see SENIORS, page 10 
win over Alabama at left while Rick Rletbrock features the seniors' feelings after their final home game. 
yards). Dillon took over on downs in Stanford territory. One first down and five plays later, Brammer nailed a 40­yard field goal which could easily have been 50. 
The first half seemed like a continual repeat of those two series -Stanford stopping itself with an ineffective passing game, and Dillon using its air attack to pile on the points. 
Dillon's most impressive drive of the game came late in the first quarter. Five first downs moved the Big Red 69 yards, and an eight-yard run by Tim Murphy made the score 10-0. 
The prime receiving threats for Dillon in the half and in the game were Steve Murphy and Bill Celebrezze. Murphy caught five passes for 123 yards and one TD, while Celebrezze matched that with six catches for 60 yards and a touchdown. 
, 
Leading 17-0 at the half (Celebrezze's TD being the third score), the Big Red settled in to hold off the Studs' potentially explosive offense and add a few more points. 
They were successful. 

"We wanted to shove it down their throats," said Morgan of the second half strategy. "They ran it up a few times during the season. But we also wanted to get all of our players in.'' 
Though Stanford's offense was more effective in the second half than in the the first, the Studs were stiil stymied by their own mistakes and the Big Red 'D'. 
Stanford quarterback AI Martin began to heat up early in the the third quarter. The senior signal-caller completed four of five passes on Stan­ford's first drive of the half, but a bobbled pass wound up in the hands of Dillon's Tim Murphy, 
BP takes IH title with 24-16 victory 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
In what was a highly exciting and competitive football game, the Breen-Phillips football squad edged out Farley for the women's Interhall football championship by a score of 24­16. 
The game was played at Notre Dame Stadium, where the fans saw the BP football team snap Farley's three-year domination of the Interhall league. 
Farley was attempting to capture a fourth-consecutive women's title, a feat that has never been accomplished in the history of Notre Dame, but and the Studs best scoring threat was thwarted. 
A defense ("completely new," according to Murphy) specifically designed by coach Ted Rolff to stop Stanford's passing attack apparently worked, as the Studs were held to just 98 yards in the air and just 106 overall. 
Senior co-captain Buzz Eck­elcamp led the Dillon defensive line with two-and-a-half sacks and innumerable pressures. Martin was on the run all through the game. 
The Big Red's final score was its most exciting. Early in the fourth quarter, faced with a fourth-and-two, Brammer dropped back and dumped a pass to Steve Murphy over the middle. Murphy snaked his way 36 yards through the Stan­ford secondary, and Dillon had the trophy. 
Breen-Phillips had a different feat in mind. 
Last year, these two teams met for the championship, and Farley emerged the winner. This year, BP and Farely met in the regular season and BP established itself as the "team to beat" by edging Farley 24-22. 
Breen-Phillips followed through on that reputation in the title game. In what was a very passing-oriented game, the BP passing attack was a little too strong for the Farley secondary. All three BP scores were in the air, and all were scored by wide receiver Carolyn Burke. 
aee CHAMPS, page 13 ;· J. t · r . 


._,e,'$~_.r-.. 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
1983-1988 
The doors of the Center were opened for the first time in January 1983. In 1988 the Center will celebrate its Fifth Aniversary with a variety of special programs and events for students, faculty, alumni, and staff. Details will fol­low. 
PLEASE NOTE! 
Although we are well into the FalJ Semester, there is still time to par­ticipate in many programs at andbr through the Center. These include many of the Service-Social Action Groups, Seminars, Summer Ser­vice Projects, etc. Ifthis semester's schedule is full, check out now details on a program or group which interests you and begin to partici­pate at the beginning of the Spring Semester. 

Center challenges students 
Do you ever feel that your academic work is challenging you to ponder the mysteries of life without any clues? The Center for Social Concerns has some clues to offer. We believe that seeing life outside the University and encoun­tering people of different experiences and backgrounds will give students a new way to approach the important questions that are being presented in the classroom. 
The Center for Social Concerns works with approximately twenty-five stu­dent organizations that enable their members to encounter life from a new perspective. Some groups are organ­ized to do service in the South Bend community --from visits to the elderly to caring for young children. Other groups are organized to help students face hard issues in concrete ways. These groups deal with issues and act on what they learn. Amnesty Interna­tional and World Hunger Coalition are two such groups. 

Students who want to continue their education during the summer and school breaks can participate in Center for Social Concerns programs that give them an opportunity both to learn and to serve. These include trips to Wash­ington, D.C., and Appalachia during Fall and Spring breaks. Summer Ser­vice Projects allow students to spend eight weeks getting to know new people and serving in a variety of communit­ies. The Urban Plunge gives students a revealing glimpse of urban life. 
Our challenge is to gain insight as we pursue knowledge. The mysteries will never be solved, but the clues that come from new experiences and reaching out to others will, without doubt, shed some light on the big questions that we encounter in our search. Kathy Royer Coordinator,ServicetSocialAction 
Summer service: 'Beyond abuse' 
" ...Each time our women attended a mandatory support group or parent­ing class they met other women who were struggling like themselves and some who had broken free. Every talk she shared with us she learned some­thing new about herself. Each time she faced a new challenge, applied for public aid or a driver's license, she gained confidence in her abilities. Regaining one's self-esteem is difficult for anyone -a growing process that can frighten some to return home to the familiar. But compassion is well rewarded. Because I was there to help, showed an interest and allowed them to trust me, women told me things they had never told anyone before, ex­pressed fears that they had never ad­mitted to themselves. I came upon the best way to counsel them quite easily. As they talked it became quite obvious that they knew the source and the answers to their own problems and, when given a chance to hear them­selves talk, they could clarify their mixed and often conflicting emotions themselves. While we worked with the victims to prevent the crime from recurring, we also struggled to break another cycle -the continuance of domestic violence with each genera­tion." 
Cathy Stacy Dove Shelter House, Decatur, IL Summer Service Project, 1987 
Cathy was one of 72 students who 
'Crucible of experience' 
"As has always been the case, the best theory is forged in the crucible of experience. Thus, we at Notre Dame have structured opportunities for concrete involvement in the so­cial, political, and ecclesial orders. Through internships and summer study, through foreign study centers, and through the umbrella of organ­izations affiliated with the Center for Social Concerns, we provoke the awareness of faculty and students alike. The mission of service begins in the activity of some among us. 
But their experience of the plaintive cry of the poor and disheartened returns to the classroom and re­search project to seek a better and more just way. 
In the commitment to justice and peace, in efforts at spiritual and moral renewal, Notre Dame has a mission to society and the Church." Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. President From the Inaugural Address Sept. 23, 1987 

returned to campus this Fall after 8 weeks of service throughout the U.S. in placements ranging from shelters for abused wives and neglected children to Indian reservations. The students are now taking a theology course, sharing their experiences, and attempting to understand more fully the meaning of service. 
Social Concerns Scholarship tuition credits up to $1200 are awarded to the students who apply and are chosen to take part in the SSP Program. The proj­ects are underwritten by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and the James F. Andrews Scholarships. Contact the Center for details on the 1988 Summer Service Projects. 
Commissions 
help Center 
with projects 
This year Student Government is working very closely with the Center to facilitate student community ser­vice. There are commissions within the Student Body Cabinet which direct their efforts to this cause. One of these, the Service Concerns Commission, works in conjunction with the many or­ganizations, on and off campus, affili­
see STUDENTS Inside 
Concerns 
The Center is a component of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Min­istry of the University of Notre Dame. 
1987-88 DIRECTORY Service I Social Action Groups 
American Red Cross Amnesty International ND Anti-Apartheid Network Arnold Air Society Big Brothers£ig Sisters Center For Basic 
Learning Skills Child Abuse and Neglect 
Coordinating Organization Circle K Community for the International 
Lay Apostolate Council For Fun and Learn Dismas House Graduate Association for 
Latin America Knights of Columbus Legal Services Madison Center National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People Neighborhood Study 
Help Program Northern Indiana State 
Development Center NDSMC Project Head Start The Overseas Developr-Jnt 
Network Pax Christi Student Advocate Volunteers 
for the Elder'ry Student Tutorial 
Education Program St. Thomas More Society Volunteers for the Overnight 
Shelter for the Homeless Women United For Justice 
and Peace World Hunger Coalition Youth Service Bureau 
Center for Social Concerns section -paid advertisement 
Groups enrich students and community 
AMERICAN RED CROSS 

The NI}SMC branch of the American Red Cross is a group of students who provide first aid services at such events as ND home football games, basket­ball games, concerts, An Tostal, interhall sports, and more. We also operate a Quick Response Sys­tem whereby we are on stand-by to provide first aid or transportation to the Student Health Center when needed. All of the events we work in guarantee free admission. Call Brother Louis Hurcik (239­7053) about classes. Our current student coordina­tors are Dave Ragan (283-1023) and Bill Fazzalaro (283-2333). It's a great way to help the community and make friends. Call Dave or Bill with any ques­tions. 
rPax. Christi 

Pax Christi-Notre Dame is... 
-a community of support and friendship 
-a way to work for peace 
-a group of people committed to creative 
consciousness raising 
-a source of strength for peacemakers 

We meet bi-weekly (usually Wed.nights) for prayer, discussion, and action. At our meetings you may find: 
-a bunch of fun people 
-lively discussions 
-prayer 
-brainstorming creative alternatives or 
solutions to violence and injustice 
-fig newtons and milk 
-people who want to make a difference (no 
matter how small, or big! ) in a world hungry 

for justice and peace For more information, call Dan Keusal (239-7943) or Tom Esch (239-7735). 
COMMUNITY FOR THE INTERNATIONAL LAY APOSTOLATE 
The Community for the International Lay Apost­olate (CILA) is a group of students who feel that, for them, living a Christian, service-oriented life­style involves integrating this "orientation" into many different aspects of their lives. Thus, there are four aspects of CILA, each with its own projects. Our EDUCATION projects include faculty-dinner discussion groups centering on social issues and workshops. Our SERVICE projects include playing with kids at a day-care center, going to Appalachia over Fall Break, and to Mexico for a month in the summer. Our SPIRITUALITY activities include weekly reflection groups and an annual retreat. Our SOCIAL activities include camping trips and dinner parties. 
CILA people become involved with whichever project(s) they choose, depending on their time and interests. New members are most welcome. If you would like more specific information on our proj­ects, call Colleen Prentice (283-2537). 
COUNCIL FOR THE RETARDED 

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded is one of the largest and best known volun­teer organizations on campus. The CFR, in con­junction with Logan Center, participates in a wide variety of activities for clients at many different levels of ability. 
The most popular of these are the recreation pe­riods on Saturdays and the Friday bowling pro-.. 
gram. Monthly dances are also held at Logan Center and are announced in the Observer and by campus posters. For more information on these and other programs, please call Dennis Hughes (283-4075) or Marie Mel­lin (284-5526). 
THE OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK 
Overseas Development Network <ODN) is a nationwide student organization working to respond constructively to the problems of world hunger and poverty. 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's ODN works closely with other social action groups to organize our two main events. Third World Awareness week is a week long educational series featuring lectures, films, and dis­cussions about issues in the Third World. The Hunger Cleanup involves students from both schools donating a few hours to clean-up projects in South Bend as a fundraising effort to benefit both the local and overseas community. ODN meets every other Tuesday at 7:00p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. For more information call Liz Durkin (287-3876) or Tony Lee (283-4489). 

The Notre Dame-St. Mary's World Hunger Coal­ition was founded in 1974 with the purpose of educat­ing our community on the issues related to the tragedy of world hunger. A second purpose is to actively participate in the fight against world hunger, and thirdly, to foster spiritual growth among the members of the coalition. 
Our largest undertaking is the Wednesday lunch fast each semester, where hundreds of students for­feit their lunch symbolically. The cost of the food is donated directly to various hunger relief and developmental programs. Other }VHC programs in­clude bi-weekly meetings and speakers, visits to local soup kitchens, participation in World Food Day and Third World Awareness Week. 
The WHC is always open to energetic suggestions and enthusiastic members. If there are any in­quiries, please call Lorie Konwinski (283-2959) or Ron Burkhart (283-2195). 
CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS 
The Center For Basic Learning Skills, located behind St. Paul's Methodist Church at 1007 West Colfax in South Bend, provides illiterate adults with an opportunity to acquire basic learning skills -­reading, writing, spelling, and mathematics. 
The volunteers tutor one day per week (Mon.­Thurs.), on the day of their choice. A van leaves for the Center from the library circle at 1:15 p.m., and from the main circle at 1:20 p.m.. It returns to campus from the center at 3:15p.m. 
If interested, call Christopher Zenk on campus anytime at (283-1952), or call Sr. Marita at (259­5427) before 9:00 p.m. 
BIG BROTHERS I BIG SISTERS 
Big Brother&Big Sisters of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is a non-profit social service organization primarily funded by the Notre Dame Student Ac­tivities Board, in conjunction with the United Way of St. Joseph County. 
Big Brother&Big Sisters provides a setting in which the student and the child can meet and enjoy themselves. Activities range from cookouts to rollerskating parties, and add some flavor to the personal meeting the student and the child experi­ence on their own. 
The gift of shared time and friendship can last a lifetime, and the price is just a few hours a week. Please share the experience with us. For informa­tion call Scott (283-1164) or Laura (283-1269). 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
"Charity, Unity, Fraternity, Patriotism": These are the cornerstones of the Knights of Columbus. First and foremost is Charity, which is at the heart 
of all activities of the Knights, from council Masses and Rosaries to volunteering our services for retarded citizens. 
The Knights of Columbus, Council number 1477, and our sister organization, the Ladies of Columbus, remain dedicated to our history and traditions. If interested, stop by the Council building, next to the Bookstore, or call at (239-7018) or (283-1092). 
1987-88 Community Service Commissioners 1987-88 Service I Social Action Group Leaders 
Alumni Mark Uba 283-1054 Keenan William J. Meinert 283-3362 American Red Cross Badin Laura Stanton 283-2750 Lewis Juliana Galvan 283-2644 Breen-Phillips Michelle Lynch 283-1268 Deborah Hassins 283-3850 Amnesty International NO Carroll Paul Burke 283-2787 Lyons Nancy Newhouse 283-2881 Anti-Apartheid Network Cavanaugh Larry Holz 283-1418 Morrissey David Shearon 283-3444 Dillon Thomas Kenney 283-1815 John Failor 283-3643 Arnold Air Society 
Mike Dunn 283-1863 Pangborn Rob France 283-2462 Farley Sandy Henson 283-4041 Pasquerilla East Katherine Gehl 283-4231 Big Brothers-Sisters 
Tasha Dachos 283-4041 Pasquerilla West Christine Hartman 283-2955 Fisher Mike Knapp 283-1986 Sorin Paul Kelly 283-2252 Center For Basic Learning Flanner Dan Gerlach 283-3895 St. Edward's James Gorenz 283-1597 CILA Grace Seamus Brennan 283-1745 Stanford Frank Jiang 283-2079 Circle K Holy Cross Jim Badar 283-3136 Mike Buzatho 283-2042 Council For Fun and Learn 
Rob Burke 283-3209 Walsh Melissa Wochner 283-2764 Council For the Retarded 
Howard Stefanie Dzudzic 283-2578 Zahm Michael Chalmers 283-1236 U1srnas House GAL.A. 
Knights of Columbus NAACP 
Questions? 
Call the Center at 239-5293 

David Ragan  283-1023  N[}SMC Hea<  
Bill Fazzalarro  283-2333  NISH  
David Baltierra  283-1194  
Julie Coyle  283-1822  NSHP  
John-Paul Checett  283-3895  
Michael Vanthournout  283-1614  ODN  
Lawrence Pravecek  271-0479  
Scott Smith  283-1164  Pax Christi  
Jennifer Diem  283-4248  Right to Life  
Chris Zenk  283-1952  SAVE  
Colleen Prentice  283-2537  Shelter tor the  
Dan Strutzel  283-3444  STEP  
Clifford Lichaytoo  283-1139  
Dennis Hughes  283-4075  Thomas More  
Marie Mellin  284-5526  Women United  
Tara Durney  283-9533  Peace  
John Kennedy  233-6298  World Hunger  
Ed Gomez  283-7018  
Lionel Coleman  283-1208  
Lois Conrad  283-2690  

NORTHERN INDIANA STATE DEVELOPMENT CENTER 
Northern Indiana State Development Center is a small residential facility for mentally retarded children and adolescents. The residents of NISDC go to special education classes in schools throughout the South Bend Community. Their education does not stop in the schools, however, as the children also participate in a variety of training, therapy, and recreation at NISDC. 
Please consider a volunteer experience at Nor­thern Indiana State Development Center. Our facility is close and convenient for students. Our residents would really enjoy having you come. 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE 
The Notre Dame chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. prides itself on being the most inclusive organization on campus. Students from all races and creeds com­bine their energies and talents to act on issues which affect the minority peoples on campus and in the society at large. For more information on what the 
N.A.A.C.P. is doing, please call Lionel Coleman (283-1208), Danny Bailey (283-2325), Lois Conrad (283-2690), or Jennifer Perkins (283-4304). The Notre Dame N.A.A.C.P works for all of us. 
Director:
CENTER FOR 

Don McNeill, C.S.C 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Associate Director: Assistant Director:
1987-88 

Kathleen Maas Weigert Eugene J. McClory 
239-5293 Coordinators: Sue Cunningham Dan Keusal Room 120 239-7867 Room 122 239; 7943 Secretaries: Mary Ann Roemer Steve Newton, C.S.C. Ardis King Room 115 239-5293 Room 121 239-7861 Carol Porter 
Kathy Royer SecretaryReceptionist: 
Room 113 239-7862 Angi Jerney 
The work of the Center is also facilitated by student managers and student assistants, by resource persons, and volunteers. 
Center programs excite broad interest 
A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE: seniors who meet in the faculty's home Contact the Center for Social Con­THE URBAN PLUNGE four or five times in the spring semester cerns for information on the 1988 Spring to converse about their undergraduate Washington Seminar: Steve Newton, 
Early this month 402 students -a years at Notre Dame and to examine c.s.c. (239-7861) 
record number-registered for the Ur­how social concerns are and will be in­ban Plunge -a 48 hour immersion into tegrated into their lives upon gradua­APPALACHIAN CHILD ABUSE & NEGLECT the kind of life that most Notre Dame tion. Still others are asked to serve as 
SERVICE SEMINAR
and St. Mary's students have never advisors to the various service-social
COORDINATING ORGANIZATION 
seen. During Christmas Break, UP par­action groups affiliated with the Center. Students during the Fall and Spring 
The Child Abuse and Neglect Coordinating Or­ticipants spend two days at an inner­breaks perform direct services for ganization <CANCO) has as its purpose the preven­city site of their choosing, hosted by For further information, contact those in need in various sites in tion of child abuse and neglect, and the treatment contacts from a variety of sources: re­Kathleen Maas Weigert (239-5319-5322). Appalachia-e.g. repairing and building 
of its devastating effects. ligious and lay church leaders, social homes. This Fall almost 50 students 
For more information about volunteering in workers, NOSMC alumni, community WASHINGTON SEMINAR spent their break at three Kentucky CANCO~ please contact Peggy Probst for work in agencies, and other interested individ­sites. For information on the Spring '88
SPRING '88
the Day Care Center or Julie Cooper for the Parent Appalachian Seminar contact Sue Cun­
uals.

Aide Program (256-0010). ningham (239-7867). The Urban Plunge offers students the The Washington Seminar program opportunity to experience the condi­completes its sixth year with a Spring 
... AND MORE
DISMAS HOUSE tions of injustice, poverty and apathy seminar, to be held during the spring found in our cities, as well as the chance break. As was true during the fall The Dismas House student group is a relatively to meet persons who are working to im­break, the seminar is a chance for In addition to the groups and pro­
new project working in cooperation with the Dismas prove these conditions and to evaluate about 24 students to explore the rela­grams described here in some detail,Board of South Bend to operate a community of their strategies. The Plunge process in­tionship between social concerns, there is a wide variety of other pro­
former prisoners and students. This community cludes an Orientation Workshop, a writ­public policy formulation and Catholic grams, courses, and activities avail­promotes bonds of trust and friendship between stu­
ten reflection paper, and follow-up dis­social teaching. Participants can earn able through the Center. These include: 
dents and former prisoners, and serves as an un­cussions in the homes of faculty and one Theology credit. 
Senior Reflection Groups-Small groups structured rehabilitation program for the former resource persons. Participants receive of seniors share meals and discuss com­

~c-%%

prisoners who often need to be reconciled with so­one hour of academic credit. Registra­~' (~ f?:-::::J7''\> f r (' mon and about
~ "~~-.•• concerns feelingsciety. Any student who is interested in living at tion for next year's plunge will take leaving Notre Dame. Hosted by FacultyDismas House next fall should contact Kathy Royer place next fall. 
and Staff in their homes. Contact Mary 
(239-7862). 
Ann Roemer. THE FACULTY Post-Graduate Service Opportunities­Workshops, seminars and other

AND CENTER ACTIVITIESWOMEN UNITED FOR 
meetings enable seniors to consider the JUSTICE AND PEACE integration of service into their chosen 
A variety of faculty-related activities careers andt>r the advantages of a yearare available through the Center. The or two of volunteer service, e.g., Peace FRIDAY FORUM, a faculty-led

The members of WUPJ have joined together to Corps, Holy Cross Associates. Contact
talkkiiscussion series, meets four times 

educate ourselves and others to grow in the power Mary Ann Roemer.
each semester to examine a particularof our common sisterhood, to lead us to an under­theme. During 1987-88 it is "The Uni­Academic Courses: standing of our responsibilities in the world today, versity and1or Social Change?" A Theology Courses (Don McNeill,and to the action we must take accordingly. The related workshop is being planned for C.S.C., and Staff)-Reading and reflec­goals of the organization are: the January break. Faculty serve as tion on issues raised by service experi­. Informed discussion and creative action on speakers and discussion leaders during Two themes wiH be explored on the ences. Courses include: "Church andvital issues of justice and peace the week-long "Call to Peacemaking" trip to D.C.: arms control negotiations Social Action,'' ''Theology and Commu­. Affirmation of the belief that together (fall semester) and "Peace with Jus­and welfare reform. Meetings will take nity Service," "Reflections on Ser­we can make a difference for peace and justice tice" (spring semester) . place with representatives of the vice," "Church and Social Justice." 

. Spiritual nourishment to our peace-making United States and Soviet arms control Other Justice and Peace Courses 
-Celebration of our common humanity Some faculty serve as pivotal parti­policy makers and with members of the (Kathleen Mass Weigert)-Study and 
-Cooperation with local, national and 
cipants in the URBAN PLUNGE follow­House of Representatives and the Sen­
analysis of contemporary ethical andinternational peace and justice groups up session where small groups of ate who are particularly involved in moral issues in justice: "Introduction '• If interested contact Kristin Komyatte (135 "Plungers" spend an evening at the both issues. Additionally, seminars will of Peace Studies," "Peace Movements
Lewis, 283-2145 or 4179) 
faculty's home to reflect on and begin be held with Church-related groups at­
in America." 
the analysis of their Urban Plunge ex­tempting to influence public policy on 
Hispanic Community Concerns (Staff) ­perience. Others host small groups of both issues.
see GROUPS, Insert page 4 Opportunities for contact with pro­
dents study in Mexico for a semester
Start Program Denise Talotta 283-2551 
or a year at the Universidad
Jeff Abraham 283-1 081 

Students 
Iberoamericana or in the Program in
Tom Elliot 271-9179 
'Opportunity
John Baker 283-4681 

continued from first esc page Global Community at Cuernavaca. 
Chris Hoepfinger 283-3154 

Peace and Justice Opportunities (Dan
Liz Durkin 288-0943 

iated with the Center, such as the World Keusal) -Courses, films, programs,
to share . ..' 
Tony Lee 283-4489 

Hunger Coalition, the Church World Ser· conferences, and individual summer
Dan Keusal 239-7943 

vice and the Community Service Commis­opportunities in justice.
"Students at Notre Dame have been Kevin Young 234-8847 
Theresa Harrington 255-7139 

sion. In effect, the Service Commission Social Concerns Cultural Arts Series
fortunate in many ways. The Center for 

Homeless Ken Kollman 283-3554 
aids the Center to prepare and organize <Staff) -Sponsored by the Center and
Social Concerns and the programs which 
Ed Kelly 283-3155 

new, unexpected and innovative activi­Student Government for the Notre
they offer give us the opportunity to share 
Sean O'Kane 283-1419 

ties. This year a variety of special projects Dame and South Bend communities. 
)ociety Bill Pifher 239-7735 
our gifts with others. Their programs and 

are being undertaken by this commission, NOTE: Center facilities include a coffee 
For Justice and Kristin Komyatte 283-4179 
our involvement in those programs are 

including the CROP Walk, a Thanksgiving house, a large multi-purpose room, 
what makes Notre Dame so special." 

food drive, and this Center publication. seminar rooms, resource room, li­
::Oalition Lori Konwinski 283-2959 
Ron Burkhart 283·2195 

For additional information, contact Ser­brary, and reflection room. Contact the vice Concerns Commissioner Renee P. Center receptionist to reserve rooms 
Pat Cooke 
Student Body President 

Gau (283-3098) or Social Concerns Com­for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, and missioner Casimir (Kaz) Crist (283-2065). other gatherings. 

Center for Social Concerns section -paid advertisement 
More groups • • • 
continued from inside insert 
FUN AND LEARN 
The Fun and Learn Program is a recrea­tioll'Socialization program for six to 16 year-old children who are experiencing difficulties in school. The program seeks to develop self-confidence, self­esteem, and to challenge children physically and mentally through recreational activities. It is not a tutorial program. 
Volunteers are needed every Saturday from 9 to 
11:30 a.m. Interested students at ND contact Clif­ford Lichaytoo (283-1139) or at St. Mary's contact Barb Gulliford (284-4424). 
ANTI-APARTHEID NETWORK 
The Anti-Apartheid Network is an organization designed to increase awareness on campus about the oppressive government of South Africa and to prompt us to do what we can to establish a just government in that country. Our main goals this year are to encourage the University to divest its holdings in all companies doing business in South Africa, and to combat racism on campus. All are welcome at our weekly vigils at 12: 15 pm. on Fridays on the Dome steps where we hear news updates from the region. Contact Julie Coyle (283­1822) or John Paul Checkett (283-3895) for more in­formation. 
STUDENT TUTORIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM 
The Student Tutorial Education Program <STEP) 
is dedicated to helping the residents of the South Bend Juvenile Facility develop socially and educa­tionally. As tutors, our major goal is to motivate the residents to complete and improve their school­work, and to teach them better study habits. Each participant tutors on either Monday or Thursday evenings from 7-8 p.m. Transportation to and from the facility if provided. Questions?? Call Ed Kelly (283-3155), Sean O'Kane (283-1419), or Tracy Schin­dele (283-4094). 

LEGAL SERVICES 
The Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana is a private nonprofit corporation providing free legal representation to low income individuals in northern Indiana. Legal Services assists people who cannot afford a private attorney with legal prob­lems in areas such as housing, public benefits, con­sumer, health and family law. 
Being a volunteer with Legal Services is interest­ing and challenging work full of learning opportu­nities. Interested people should contact Pam Cleyes (234-8121). 
ST. THOMAS MORE SOCIETY 
The St. Thomas More Society consists of a group of individuals committed to keeping alive and spreading the ideals and moral principles ex­emplified in the life and death of St. Thomas More. The two primary focuses of the society are its lec­tures and community service. For more informa­tion contact Bill Pifher (239-7735) or Pete Morgan(283-1063). 
PROJECT HEAD START 
Project Head Start is a comprehensive, interdis­ciplinary child development program designed to serve pre-school children from families with limited income. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who take part in the program volunteer in a Head Start classroom one morning or afternoon each week. 
If interested, contact Denise Talotta (283-2551) or Lois Clark (234-2150). 
-

The Observer page 4 

VOLUNTEERS FOR THE OVERNIGHT SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
This club is new. Its main task is to organize the volunteers in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's commu­nity for work at the Overnight Shelter for the Home­less. Also, it will work actively to publicize the prob­lem of homelessness in America to the college community, through speakers, articles, and fundraisers. If you are interested in volunteering at the shelter, or in helping the homeless through other means, contact one of the officers: Ken Koll man (283-3554), Kelly McGoldrick (283-2822), NOSMC liaison Mary Carol Cahill (284-5231). 

MADISON CENTER 
Madison Center, a comprehensive mental health 
center providing mental health and substance abuse 
services, utilizes volunteers from the community. 
Volunteer positions are appropriate for students in­
terested in the mental health field. 
Training is provided for each program. Those 
interested in applying or receiving further informa­
tion may contact Laurel Eslinger, Coordinator of 
Volunteer Services, (234-0061), during the morning 
hours. 

GRADUATE ASSOCIATION FOR LATIN AMERICA 
The Graduate Association for Latin America (GALA) is an interdisciplinary group of graduate students interested in Latin American issues. GALA intends to continue to sponsor events which have potential for attracting broad support from among the many groups on campus that are interested in Latin American issues. Direct questions to John Kennedy, Dept. of Economics (233-6298). 
~ AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
Amnesty International is a non-partisan worldwide organization advocating human rights and working to free prisoners of conscience, ensure fair trials for political prisoners, and stop torture and executions. Amnesty International's volunteer groups in cities and campuses around the world write letters to government authorities responsible for abusing human rights; publicize Amnesty's human rights concerns in the communities; and raise funds to support ongoing human rights work. 
If interested in helping with Amnesty's work, con­
tact Celeste Kolton (232-2469), David Baltierra (283­
1194), or Ann Troester (284-5303). 
CIRCLE K 

Circle K International is an organization dedi­
cated to service, leadership development, and 
career development. 
Our weekly service activities include visits to 
Marian Hill Retirement Home, Logan Center, NISH 
(with St. Mary's), and Ducomb Center for juvenile 
offenders. Speakers on career development and 
other pertinent social issues are also available at 
meetings to educate the members. Circle K Inter­
national (CKI) wants to involve tommorow's 
leaders today. Contact Dan Strutzel (283-3444) for 
more information. 
STUDENTADVOCATEVOLUNTEERS FOR THE ELDERLY 
Student Advocate Volunteers of the Elderly 
<SAVE) is a service organization that helps to meet 
the needs of the elderly in the South Bend area. The 
primary work of SAVE for the last 10 years has 
been to visit the lonely elderly, although in many 
cases SAVE volunteers have cleaned houses, 
shoveled snow and done yard work and other mis­
cellaneous odd jobs. 
For more information call Cleo Mellinger or 
Kevin Young from 9-5:00 p.m., M-F, (239-5279). 
~,'1'11 YOUTH SERVICE BUREAU 
The Youth Service Bureau 70001 Program is de­
signed for high school dropouts between 16 and 21 
years of age. Services provided include GED prep­
aration, pre-employment training, job develop­
ment, and motivational activities. John Reid (ND 
'70) is program director. 
Volunteers are used as individual tutors in math, 
language, and reading. GED classes meet Monday 
through Wednesday from 1 to 4:00p.m. Interested 
individuals may contact Mr. Reid (284-9231). 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program (NSHP), 
in this our 25th year of service to the South Bend 
Community, is the largest volunteer service organi­
zation on the Notre Damet St. Mary's campuses. 
We tutor South Bend area school children from kin­
dergarten to the high school level. Each tutor is 
assigned one child. The tutor visits the tutoring site 
twice each week for approximately one hour. 
Questions? Please call John Baker (283-4681), 
Chris Hoepfinger (283-3154), or MariKris Dalum 
(283-2650). 


FROM THE EDITOR'S DESK 

In presenting this four-page special on the Center for Social Concerns, we wish to remind the reader that we are focus­ing on the student service and social action groups, and social concerns pro­grams and activities connected with the Center for Social Concerns. 
Current information on Center pro­grams and activities is available through the CSC Calendar/Newsnotes dis­tributed to faculty and students, and through the CSC Newsletter, mailed primarily to Center alumni. Each of these publications appears quarterly. 
This is a paid advertisement made possible through the cooperation of: The Observer staff who assisted in its production 
Notre Dame Student Government 
which partially defrayed the cost The student groups which provided a writeup on their organizations Center staff who shared material on their programs 
And you, the reader, whose interest and followup makes all of this worthwhile. 
Thank you. 
Eugene J. McClory 



