Balmy
IACCENT: Holy Cross Associates in Chile 
Mostly sunny, high in the mid 70's.

IVIEWPOINT: Don't overlook poverty 



VOL. XXI, NO. 43 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's· 

Former hostage to speak at NO 
By SEAN S. HICKEY Damascus, Syria, in Nov. 1984. Staff Reporter "They met with Syrian offi­cials, Palestinian Agroups and A former Beirut hostage will almost anyone they could find, be speaking tonight at Galvin including representatives of Life Science at 8 in room 283. Syrian prime-minister Assad," 
A Beirut bureau chief for the said Gaffney. He added it is un­Cable News Network and pres­clear whether Levin escaped ently a Woodrow Wilson Fellow because of his own ingenuity or at Princeton University, Jerry his wife's efforts. Levin was abducted by the Is­"The mystery is whether he lamic Jihad on March 7, 1984 escaped or was released in­while walking to work in directly," said Gaffney. "Most Beirut. The militant Shi'ite observers feel that it was spe­group held him prisoner for 343 cial that he got away as op­days until February 1985. posed to a disguised release. 
"Notre Dame had· a secret Anyway it is clear that Lucille connection in Levin's escape," Levin met her husband's cap­said Father Patrick Gaffney, tors." an assistant professor and a Islamic Jihad, a radical Middle East specialist. Shi'ite Muslim group issued a 
That connection was statement the week after they Landrum Bolling, director of released Levin saying they the Notre Dame Institute of decided to do so because they Ecumenical Studies in Israel, determined he was not a sub­who was contacted by Levin's versive. wife and aided in Levin's Levin's wife, who is very ac­release. tive in a church group in Wash­
Frustrated with the State De­ington D.C., knew Landrum partment efforts, Mrs. Levin Bolling, the former president of became the first relative of a Earlham College (in Central hostage to speak out publicly Indiana) and former executive 
The Observer I Jim Carroll

in the news media, according of the Lilly Foundation, which to Gaffney. Through her is an educationa}1>hilandropic campus Friday and Saturday nights in an adult re­church, she contacted Bolling enactment of trick-or-treat. and flew with Bolling to see LEVIN, page 4 
ND raises 2nd highest development amount ever 
ByKIMBERLYTRENNER Senior Staff Reporter Notre Dame's Department of Development raised $45.8 mil­lion dollars in fiscal 1987, the second highest amount of money in the institution's his­tory. The figure is only topped by the $48.3 million raised in fiscal 1986 and is almost double the $24.2 million received in fiscal 1984. All of the money included in these figures are cash con­tributions, not pledges. "Notre Dame continues to rank high on the list of private universities in most fund­ raising categories," Joseph Sandman, Director of Develop­ment for Notre Dame. Recent rankings place us first in sup­port from parents, tenth in cor­porate matching gifts and seventeenth in total dollars raised, according to Sandman. Sandman attributes the suc­cess of the fund-raising to new development programs. "In the last four years since Dr. Sexton,-the Vice President of University Relations, · has taken over, we have imple­mented a number of new devel­opment programs which for the first time have given Notre Dame a comprehensive devel­opment program," said  Sandman. "Some of the pro­grams used for development are a strong annual fund pro­gram, a campaign once a de­cade and strong planned giving," added Sandman. Notre Dame is currently raising money for its $300 mil­lion campaign, 'Notre Dame: A Stategic Moment,' which was announced in May. It is the largest fund-raising effort ever undertaken by a Catholic uni­versity. At the end of fiscal 1987, a total of $216 million, or 72 percent, had been given or committed to the five year campaign. The money raised in this campaign will go towards  buildings, fellowships, scholar­ships and libraries. Regarding this year's fund­raising, Sandman said, "We expect to increase the amount of cash we are going to secure...We are shooting for a goal of $48 million." "We are definitely ahead of last year's rate,'' he added. Sandman cited several reasons for Notre Dame's tradition of generous support from alumnae, parents, corpo­rations and friends. "Our con­stituency endorses the mission of the university,'' he said. "What we do is not being pursued by other universities. We have a very strong under­ graduate program which we will not let suffer, unlike Har­vard, Yale and other great re­search universities." Sandman said that people also give to Notre Dame in or­der to help the University achieve its aim of being able to compete with other great uni­versities in the area of re­search. "We are striving towards excellence in graduate education and research,'' he said. "We know we have got to improve." "The university is commit­ted to the preservation of its strong Catholic character,'' see FUNDS, page 5  
4th district council race to revive old rivalry  
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter  the 1983 election, surpassing Heyde by 1,400 votes.  South Bend and also has expe­rience in managing a small  on the council. She is also chair­man of the Committee of the  "Five Points" area. Heyde is running on opposi­ 


This year in the Democratic business. 

The upcoming election for primary, Puzzello won a close South Bend's 4th District city race against challenger Alfred council seat will be round 2 in Kirstis by 86 votes. a political rivalry that began in The 4th District comprises 1983. most of the Northeast Neigh­
Democratic incumbent Ann borhood. The district is also Puzzello seeks to return to the home to Democratic mayoral council for a second term, run­nominee Joe Kernan. ning in opposition to Republi­Puzzello, 46, is an elemen­can nominee Richard Heyde, tary school teacher and a whom she defeated in the last graduate of Illinois College. 
t987 
Vote 

Whole. tion to the Comm'unity Oriented 
Heyde, 42, is employed as a Police (COP) Program and is regional marketing director. A seeking to abolish the program. graduate of Indiana University The COP program has estab­at South Bend, Heyde worked lished neighborhood police sec­10 years as a detective sergeant tors. Heyde says the program for the county police. has been a failure in preventing 
Puzzello is stressing efforts an increase in criminal and to relieve traffic flow problems drug activity and a waste of on major streets that cross the money. district in her campaign. Puzzello has warned that the 
Puzzello also lists efforts to program would be costly to dis-
race four years ago. Puzzello She obtained a master's degree Puzzello serves as chairman alleviate crime and parties of won 62 percent of the vote in from Indiana University at of the Public Safety Committee Notre Dame students in the see RACE, page 5 
r--------------------------------------~­
page 2 
In Brief 
AirForce Academy studentleaders and an Academy administrator apologized to Leprechaun Brian Stark last week for incidents that occurred during the Oct. 17 game in Colorado Springs. Academy cadets gave Stark a bloody nose and later blind-sided Stark, sending him into an alu­minum bench. Stark said, however, he has no hard feelings towards the cadets. "It was all in fun," he said, "I don't resent that." -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Grace Hall Debate topic for tonight is "Big time school athletics do not contribute significantly to the overall education mission of American colleges." The debate is the second in the series of the debates. It will be held tonight at 9 in the Grace hall pit and will be judged by Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal. -The Observer 
Junior Dogbook makeup pictures will be taken tonight only from 6 to 10 in 307 LaFortune Student Center. This will be the last chance for juniors to get their picture taken for the book. -The Observer 
Amnesty International will be meeting at 6 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. The primary focus will be Amnesty's annual write-a-thon. Anyone interested is welcome to attend. Please note the time change. -The Observer 
Rock Over London tonight features Sting's new version of the Jimi Hendrix song "Little Wing" as well as an interview and two new songs from The Alarm. This, along with other music from Supertramp, John Martyn, and the Style Council can be heard at midnight on 88.9 WSND-FM. -The Observer 
The Finance Club will have a presentation on the chartered financial analysis program at 7 p.m. in 120 Hayes-Healy. Professor Frank Reilly will lead the presentation. -The Observer 
Two thousand students will be receiving the first annual survey of the student body this week. All students who receive a survey are urged to complete it and return it via campus mail before Friday, Nov. 13. The results will be released after Thanksgiving. -The Observer 
Notre Dame chess club will meet tonight from 8 to 10 in the Annapolis Room of the LaFortune Student Center. New members are welcome. -The Observer 
"How to Conduct an Effective Mail Campaign" is the title of a presentation to be given by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 
6:30 in 123 Nieuwland. Students of all majors and classes are invited to attend. This presentation will be repeated tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
~ating Awareness Training Session I, entitled "What 1~ problema~ic eating?_" will be held tomorrow night from 
6. 30 t? 7:30 m the Hab1g Lounge, 222 Moreau Hall at Saint Marys. The speaker will be Nancy Schoeneman, M.A. 
-The Observer 
CAPP~PMA Club presents Katherine Harbke from Electromc Data Services. Harbke will discuss what EDS can offer you in a career. The presentation will be Tuesday at 7 p.m. in 210 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
The Baptist Student Union will sponser a prayer group tomght at 7 in the Bulla House. For further infor­mation call Carla at 283-4380 or Nancy at 283-2841. -The Observer 
ACableNewsNetworklnternshipinWashington 
D.C. will be discussed by Nazih Daher at the end of the Arabian History and Civilization class today in room 217 O'Shaugnessy. -The Observer 
Monday, November 2, 1987
The Observer 

Many tourists seem to be blinded by cameraflashes 


A friend of mine loves taking snapshots. But she pulls out her camera at the most awkward times. 
Restaurant employees in at least three states fear our approach because she always hands her camera to a waitress and insists she take a picture of the five or six of us gathered around one side of our dinner table. And the flash and commotion bring stares from all over the room. 
Though the whole process annoys everyone involved at least a little, she does accomplish something important. She captures a memory, and that's the whole point of snapshot photog­raphy. But some people let flash photography blind them to the things they should be seeing. 
While in Washington, D.C., recently, I watched a bunch of tourists pile off a bus. They immediately began scurrying around taking snapshots. The scattered, lighted memorials of the mall in Washington, D.C., looked beautiful, but the pitch-black night guaranteed that none of the tourists' photos would come out. 
At the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, a hus­band and wife stood in front of the statue of the three soldiers. The couple complained about the poor lighting on the statue. As the husband focused his camera, his wife told him to hold the camera vertically because the statues were tall. Neither commented on the realism of the 
figures or the deadness in their eyes. Neither walked behind the statue to see why the figures were looking off to the side rather than straight ahead. 
The figures were looking at the wall. 
No veterans wept at the wall that day. A fam­ily from the tour bus scrambled around with a list of six names a friend had given them. They didn't know anything about the people on the list. Their goal was to find the six among the columns of names etched into the wall and make pencil and paper rubbings of them. They worked as fast as they could. No one in the family paused to think about why the names were on the wall. Neither parent bothered to explain that those thousands of names were the names of dead people. 
The family members did try to take closeup photographs of the six names, something they might look at later when they had time. But no one took a picture of the whole memorial. In fact, the beauty of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial is that it defies people who try to take its picture. 
Jim Riley 
News Editor 

As another visitor wandered toward the memorial, he found that trees and ropes prevented him from approaching the wall head­on. Ifhe'd had a camera, he couldn't have taken a picture of the whole thing if he'd wanted to. He was forced to start at one end of the wall and walk close to it where he could read the names. 
The wall started as a small triangle at his feet. But as we walked along the wall, the side­walk sloped downward and the wall became taller as the triangle of black marble widened. The handful of names at his feet became an overwhelming wall of names, and soon he had descended so low that he could no longer see over it. As he quickened his pace, the growing wall peaked and began to get smaller again. 
I watched him turn around as he reached the end of the wall. He gazed back in the direction of those thousands of names. And he saw dozens of nameless tourists, wasting film in the dark, taking pictures of things they had never really seen. 
Wish yQur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. fQr details. 
What happens when the world of high finance 
A world of high success develops. 
Merrill Lynch is looking for candidates with majors in Business, Lberal Arts and Tedmical Subjects to join our 
Corporate Systems Program 
We Will Be On Campus To Hold lnformatioo Sessions 
November 3,1987, 7:00to 9:00p.m. Morris Inn Alumni Room 
meets the world of high technology? 
~Merrill Lynch 
Your world should know no boundaries. 

Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Design Assistant ............... Joe Zadrozny Typesetters ............... Becky Gunderman ........................................... Michael Buc News Editor... .. ............. Chris Julka Copy Editor ................... Rachael Jarosh Sports Copy Editor......... Rick Rietbrock Business Page Editor ......... Steve Claeys Buainess Page Layout ....... Heidi Traxler 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Brian Conway Viewpoint Layout .............. Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck Accent Layout.. ........... Katy Kronenberg Typists. ... Jenn Conlon ND Day Editor..... ... Beth Cornwell Ad Design .................. Mary Bridget Silk .................................. Mary Ann Riordan Photographer . Jim Carroll 

'ne OMener (USPS 599 2..COOO) is published Monday throush Friday except durina cum and vacation periods. 'ne Oblenet' is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $.40 per year ($25 per semestet') by writins Tile OMinet', P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
'ne OMener is a member of 'ne Aaoclaled Praa. All reproduction rishts are reserved. 
page 3

Monday, November 2, 1987 The Observer 
Radiation poisoning raises questions 

Associated Press 
ANGRA DOS REIS, Brazil ­The radiation poisoning of more than 200 people has raised serious questions about the government's ability to control its ambitious nuclear program, which includes the technology for atomic weapons. 
This vast nation of 138 million people has one atomic power plant on line -in the quiet fis­hing community of Angra dos Reis -and two more planned. But it has no site for safely dis­posing of nuclear waste. 
The navy minister has an­nounced plans to make fuel for atomic submarines, even though Brazil doesn't have any nuclear-powered subs. 
Last month's poisoning of 243 people in the central city of Goiania occurred just one month after President Jose Sar­ney proudly announced that Brazil had mastered the tech­nique of enriching uranium, a necessary step in building an atomic bomb. 
A scavenger took a capsule of the isotope cesium-137 from a partly demolished cancer treatment clinic. A junk dealer broke open the 500-pound lead casing and found about 3 ounces of a phosphorescent powder which he and others confused with catnival glitter. 
By late October, four people who had rubbed the cesium on their bodies, including a 6-year­old girl, were dead. Seven others remain hospitalized with little chance of survival. 
It was considered the world's most serious nuclear radiation incident since the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl reactor in the Soviet Union that took more than 30 lives. 
Rex Nazare, the president of the national Nuclear Energy Commission, said on nation­wide television the Goiania in­cident would not affect Brazil's nuclear program, which he declared safe. 
"Our conscience is clear," he said. 
But many people say Brazil's thrust into the atomic age is downright dangerous. 


• 
Open House: Thursday, November 5, 1987 Senior Alwnni Club 
6:00 p.m -8:00 p.m 
II 

Come on in...take a look at (y)our Future. 
As the percentage of personal computers on desktops in businesses and homes escalates, more doors open for you at CompuServe. FORTUNE 500 companies, government agencies, leading investment banking firms and forward-thinking individuals depend on us for computer-to-computer communications and Information delivery. CompuServe is leading the information age, pioneering technology and its application in business and home environments. 
Marketing Trainee Program. 
Marketing Trainees attend a summer program at CompuServe's corporate headquarters before joining one of 30 branch offices in major cities across the country. CompuServe's Marketing Trainee Program provides extensive instruction in the information industry, product applications, sales and marketing strategy. If you miss us on campus, inquire about CompuServe careers in marketing at your college placement omce, or send a Resume to: 
ContpuServe 
Empl~nt Manager 
P.O. &. 20212 
5(00 Arlington Cattre Bhd. 
C'AJlumbus, OH 43220 
The ObserveP'Jim Carroll

The Great Pumpkin 
the globe In the middle of the Clarke Memorial Foun-
A iack-o-lantern grins at the North Quad from atop tain Saturday. 
French 'lrangate' reported 
vanished in January while seeking the release of Ameri­can hostages. 
A south Korean diplomat, Do Chae Sung, was released last week after 21 months in cap­tivity, reportedly for a $1 mil­lion ransom. The Seoul govern­ment, however, has denied paying any money to win Do's release. 
The French press articles were based on a report titled "Confidential Defense" by Jean-Francois Barba, comptroller-general of the armies. According to the report, cited by the weekly Le Point, "There is no doubt that members of the office of the minister of defense covered up this illegal export." 
Hernu, in a television inter­view, denied having been in­volved in illegal arms sales and said the news articles were part of a smear campaign by the governing conservatives 
The Luchaire Affair, which takes its name from the arms company involved, broke in February 1986 when the Cher­bourg newspaper La Presse de la Manche revealed that in 1985 two Bahamas-registered cargo ships mane voyages with more than 140,000 155mm and 203mm shells to the Iranian port of Bandar Abbas. 
I 
~NIORS ~ Photograp~~rs needed for JPW Call Colleen x2491 l Bart x3770 
Maryknoll 
People working around the world with people. 

Associated Press 

PARIS -A scandal that some reports are calling the French Irangate is brewing over the sale of munitions to Iran by a French arms manufacturer with the alleged complicity of high Defense Ministry offi­cials. 
According to articles pub­lished over the weekend in the local press, an investigating magistrate in Paris is seeking to have a Defense Ministry report on the sales declassified so charges can be brought against several people. 
What is known as the "Luc­haire Affair" involves the clan­destine delivery of 450,000 ar­tillery shells to Iran between 1983 and 1986 under the Socialist government of Premier Laurent Fabius. 
Reports in two weekly newsmagazines implicate high-ranking officials in the of­
first-choice schools. Fact 
is. no one has helped STANUY H.lAPIAIIIDUUitONAI OIITIIIJD. students score higher! 
OTHER COURSES: MCAT. DAT, NCLEX. NTE, CPA, BAR REVIEW, & OTHE~S 
IKAPLAN 
1717 [. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 
Phone 219/272-411~ 
12/12/&7 LSAT CLASS STARTS NOW! 
fice of former Defense Minister Charles Hernu and say that even President Francois Mit­terrand knew about the sales, which contravened a govern­ment embargo on shipments to Iran. 
In addition, a leftist newspa­per reported Sunday in Beirut that the Paris government un­der Fabius tried unsuccess­fully to negotiate with Iran for the release of French hostages in Lebanon in exchange for a $3 million ransom. 
As-Safir quoted unidentified diplomatic sources as saying France also agreed to provide Iran with 500,000 heavy ar­tillery shells, "but the deal col­lapsed at the last minute." 
Six Frenchmen are among 22 foreigners missing in Lebanon and believed held hostage by pro-Iranian Shiite Moslem ex­tremists. 
In addition, Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite of Britain 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GET 
INTO THE GRAD SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their 
--~-----~--------­
Monday, November 2, 1987

page 4 The Observer 
NSC advisor expects treaty to be passed 
Associated Press take on the treaty directly, and I think there are others who 
WASHINGTON -National se­might take it on by indirec­curity adviser Frank Carlucci tion....They might well sug­said Sunday that a U.S.-Soviet gest various reservations or accord on intermediate-range amendments that would, in nuclear missiles is "98 percent effect, kill it," Cranston said on of the way there" and predicted NBC-TV's "Meet the Press." Senate ratification. Sen. Richard Lugar, a 
However, a leading Senate leading Republican and a Democrat warned that the su­member of the Senate Foreign perpower pact could be Relations Committee, also doomed if conservative predicted some tough sailing in Republicans tamper with it by the Senate for an INF treaty. attaching amendments on is­sues like the Soviet occupation "I think there are a number of Afghanistan. of Republican senators and 
"I do think that there could they'll be a few Democrats who be problems," said Sen. Alan · are not in favor of any treaty Cranston, D-Calif., the Senate with the Soviet Union, feel it's Democratic whip who is also a unverifiable, unenforceable," member of the Senate Foreign the Indiana Republican said on Relations Committee and the ABC-TV's "This Week with Select Committee on Intelli­David Brinkley." gence. Lugar said he is "inclined to 
"There are 15-20 very conser­favor the treaty," but is holding Many students show their true colors via their cos­Large groups of masked figures loomed on and off 
vative Republican senators off a final decision until he sees 
tumes at a party on Taylor street Saturday evening. campus te celebrate Halloween.
who I think are very likely to the finished version. 

The Observer I Jim Carroll 

Ginsburg may have had conflict of interest in case 
close to Ginsburg said Sunday "It is a First Amendment in which he invested was not a Ginsburg himself declined Assocaited Press that Ginsburg did not raise the rights case that had economic direct party to the case even comment. But speaking on his possibility of staying out of the consequences to it. .. , " said a though it could benefit from the behalf Sunday night, Justice WASHINGTON -Supreme case with Justice Department former federal ethics official Department spokesman Terry 
ruling.
Court nominee Douglas superiors or with agency ethics familiar with the cable case but But ethics experts said Eastland said Ginsburg "con­Ginsburg had almost $140,000 officers. He said Ginsburg dis­not with Ginsburg's role in it. Ginsburg's actions could be sidered at the time the possi­invested in a cable television cussed the situation with sub­"If I'm holding cable stock, viewed as skirting a presiden­bility of staying out of the ... 
corporation when he "per­ordinates. that is a good thing for me." case."
tial executive order forbidding 
sonally handled" a Justice De­Ginsburg, nominated by 
actions that create an appear­"Mr. Ginsburg decided that partment effort to have the The Supreme Court, on June President Reagan to succeed ance of a conflict or of he could properly participatehigh court extend First Amend­2, 1986, adopted Ginsburg's retired Justice Lewis Powell on favoritism. Violation of that or­because the case before the ment protection to cable arguments in a decision that the court, apparently did not vi­der carries administrative court did not involve the com­operators. will reduce government olate criminal conflict of inter­penalties, such as a letter of pany in which he had a finan­
An administration source regulation of cable operators. est laws because the company reprimand or suspnsion. cial interest," Eastland said. 

Monday, November 2, 1987 
The Observer page 5 
Studies which is run by Notre Dame in a suburb of Jerusalem

Levin 
called Tantur. Said Gaffney,

continued from page 1 
"His expertise is the Middle East so he's active in peacefoundation in Indianapolis, ac­work and similar recon­cording to Levin. 

ciliatory efforts. He is a wellFather Gaffney known figure with lots of con­added: "Lucille Levin's persis­tacts in that complex world." 

tence and beliefs in reconcilia­Levin will also discuss thetion and peace were probably CNN (Cable News Network) in­instrumental in saving her hus­ternship. "It's a hands-on fel­band's life. But we'll never lowship with the opportunity toknow. It is a human story: work at CNN headquarters inher's as well a his." 
Washington D.C.," said Father 

Bolling currently is director of the Institute of Ecumenical 
Gaffney. 
tween off-campus students and South Bend residents. 

Race 
The plan includes establish­ment of an off-campus center

continued from page 1 
for coordinating student pro­mantle and a better solution grams, designation of an off­would be to change the opera­campus housing coordinator tion of the program. and the assignment of a coun­
Puzzello also supports coun­cilman to the university's task cilman redistricting after the force on community relations. 1990 census that preserves Creation of a "weekend war­neighborhood boundaries. riors" group of student volun­
In the race for at-large city teers is also proposed by Cole­councilman is Democratic man. The group would promote nominee Sean Coleman, who responsible socializing and has proposed an eight-point help with trash and public 
plan for better relations be-safety problems. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
ORDER EARLY FOR 
FORMAL DANCES 
Corsages and Boutonnieres have to be 
:·?:·}.:·:::.:·:::.:·>:·:·>:·:·:::.:·.:::·:.:.:·>:·:·:::.::::.:·>:·:·:::.::::.:·>:·::::.:·:.:.:·>:·:·>:·:·:::.::::.:·.::.:·>:·:·>:·:·:::.:·:::.:·>:·:·:::.:·>:·:·>:·:·::::·:::~ 
-
'The Observer I Zoltan Ury 

God, Country, Notre Dame football 
Is anything sacred anymore? Well, at least football dress as nuns while entertaining the crowd at the is. Members of the Notre Dame cheerleading squad Navy game Saturday. 

first time a campaign was heta which brought people to

Funds 
campus to talk about raising money," Sandman said. 

continued from page 1 
Last year's heavy donations said Sandman. He said he are also due in part to the believes that people support retirements of Father Res­this committment. "We think burgh and Father Joyce that Notre Dame is the OI).ly said Sandman. "The retire­Catholic university that has the 
ments drew lots of attention endowment and national con­
and caused us to receive in­stituency that we do and who 
creased gifts," he said. can really compete with the great research universities," The success of the football he said. team indirectly affects the amount of funds raised. "On Sandman also noted the im­the short term, there is no sig­portance of the effect which nificant relationship between strong leadership at Notre the success of the football team Dame has had on the tradition and the amount of funds of giving. "Father . Hesburgh raised," said Sandman. 
and Father Beauchamp were "However," he added, "on the strong leaders," said long term it has got to help Sandman. "Father Malloy is a you... The athletic program strong leader," he added. keeps the university in the "Under his leadership for the public's eye," said Sandman. 

eport 
Frum '\umhl·r Om· Wall Stn•l'l 
Meet The People Who Are Meeting Today's Banking Challenges. 
Hne at In Ill!! Tru~t. indi\ idual idea~ hecome real it~ 
throu!!h teamwork. Our approad1 i~ toutilile 
L'\·eryone \ ~pL'cial ~trL"ngth~ to mL"et the di\'l'r~e fmancial nL"L"d~ of our L'LI\tlllner~ worldwide. We otTer a 
challenging working em· ironment whne teamwork i~ 
the corner~tone of our hu~ine~~ philo~ophy. 
In ing Tru~t i~ headquartered at One Wall Street in the heart of j\;ew York Cit)\ financial di~tril'l. Think ahout hegi~ming your career in the world\ mn~t CXL'iting L'ity~ 
An equal opportunity cmplo) cr ml f/ h/ \. 
Mel't with u~. We'll he on campu~: 
Date: Wednesday, 
November 4, 1987 Time: 8:00-10:00 pm Place: University Club 
Upper Lounge 

Irving Trust 


..------~­
.. 
Monday, November 2, 1987
The Observer

page 6 
Campaign launched 
Security Beat
against pornography 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The opening shots in a war against hard-core pornography -a $300,000 campaign including billboards, a newspaper insert and a TV program -have been fired in Kansas City by ac­tivists who say tHeir target is dehumanizing and dangerous. 
Their critics, however, say the group is using scare tactics 
and exaggerating the problem to arouse the public, and they raise the specter of censorshipdown the road. 
The anti-porn drive was a 
test, organizers said. A na­
tiona! group may take the cam­
paign throughout the country, 
depending on its evaluation of 
the Kansas City effort. 
The campaign launched over 
the past month by the National 
Coalition Against Pornography 
and its local affiliate urged 
people to Stand Together Op­
posing Pornography, or STOP. 
It featured 80 billboards, a two-
hour television program, direct 
mail pleas, a 12-page newspa­
per insert and a phone bank to 
take calls from financial con­
tributors. 
"If enough of us stand to­
gether, we can provide the sup­
port our public officials need to 
take on the pornographers and king public officials to enforce obscenity laws. 
"It is designed to communi~ cate with virtually every adult in the Kansas City area," said Chris Cooper, full-time direc­tor of the coalition's Kansas City branch. 
He called the group's fund­raising efforts during tne month-long campaign that ended Saturday "very success­
ful. , 
Cooper said grass-roots sup­port was one reason Kansas City was chosen for STOP's 
debut. He also said coalition of­ficials believed a large amount of obscene material is dis­tributed here, though he said the level may be typical for a city of a half-million people. 
The leader of the national or­
ganization, Presbyterian mini­
ster Jerry Kirk of Cincinnati, 
said the Kansas City results 
will be evaluated before other 
cities attempt a similar effort 
to depict pornography as not 
just offensive, but dangerous. 
But the campaign has drawn 
criticism for statements such 
as one that Kansas City faces 
an "epidemic" of pornogra­
phy. An editorial in The Kansas 
City Times suggested that it 
was exploiting contributors by 
using scare tactics and advo­
eating censorship. 
"We were surprised, frankly, Thursday, October 29 

3:55p.m. An off-campus student re­ported losing his wallet between South Dining Hall and LaFortune around 3:00 p.m. His loss is esti­mated at $65. 
Friday, October 30 
1:07a.m. Security assisted tfte Notre Dame Fire Dept. In investigat­Ing a false alarm at the South Dining Hall. 
9:13a.m. A Bookstore employee's car was hit by another car that rolled Into it while it was parked In the Bookstore lot. 
!0:03a.m. An Osceola resident re­ported the theft of his Bushnell binoculars from the hood of his van during the USC game on Oct 24. His loss is estimated at $250. 
!0:30a.m. Two girls bikes were removed from the Notre Dame Credit Union bike rack at their re­quest. The bik· ; are In possession of Security. 
!2:05p.m. A Breen-Phillips resi­dent reported thP theft of her bike from the rack ~;etween BP and Far­ley. Her loss aq estimated at $150. 
2:00p.m. A Lyons Hall resident re­ported the theft of her red Panasonlc ten speen bike from the bike rack between Lyons and Morrissey. 
2:30p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his backpack from the South Dining Hall between 
12:30 and 2:30p.m. His loss Is esti­mated at $150. 
4:45p.m. A Lyons Hall resident re­ported the loss of her blue ID case somewhere on the South Quad. Her case was later found and turned Into Security. 
5:40p.m. A University employee reported the theft of his wallet from Court 4 of the JACC between 4:15 and 5:00p.m. His loss Is estimated at $75. 
8:40p.m. A Breen-Phllllps resident reported the theft of her purse and Its contents from her room between 
9:00 and 10:00 p.m. Thursday. Her loss Is estimated at $130. 
7:50p.m. A Cincinnati resident re­ported the loss of his silver wedding ring In Stepan Center during the Pep Rally. 
9:05p.m. A ROTC student reported vandalism to the obstacle course. 
Saturday. October 31 
!2:45p.m. A University employee reported the theft of several Items from her locker. Her loss Is esti· mated at $250. 
2:00p.m. A Notre Dame student was ejected from the stadium for dis­orderly conduct. The Incident Ia being referred to the omce of Stu­dent Amairs. 
2:15p.m. A Kalamazoo resident was cited for violation of the Univer­sity Alcohol Polley In Red Field. 
2:30p.m. Several persons were cited for Illegally soliciting on campus. 
3:25p.m. A University employee was stopped for wreckless driving on Lake Road near St. Michael's Laundry. A cltati"n was Issued. 
3:59p.m. An Ohio resident was cited for public Intoxication and In­descent exposure by Gate 10 of the JACC. 
4:20p.m. A Granger resident re­ported the loss of her gold watch In the stadium area. 
4:28p.m. Two Notre Dame stu­dents were ejected from the football game for disorderly conduct. The case will be forwarded to the omce of Student Affairs. 
4:30p.m. A pair of ladles glasses 
were found In the Administration 
Building and turned Into Security. 
4:43p.m. An Elkhart resident re­
ported the theft of his stereo and 
speakers from his car while It was 
parked in Blue Field during the foot· 
ball game. His loss is estimated at 
$381. 
5:00p.m. An Illtnols man was ar­rested t!or illegally soliciting on Unl· verslty property. The suspect bad been previously cited for this of· fense. 
5:08p.m. A Stanford Hall resident was cited for illegally using fireworks. The case will be for­warded to the omce of Student M· fairs. 
8:10p.m. A Milwaukee resident was questioned for hurling water bal­loonsln the stadium with a sling shot. 
8:45p.m. A Notre Dame student was stopped for wrecklessly driving a golf cart on Old Juniper Road. The case will be referred to the omce of Student Amars. 
lO:OOp.m. AHammond reatdent re­ported that her car was broken into during the football game. Among the Items stolen were a stereo cassette player and a denim jacket. Her loss Is estimated at $150. 
ll:OOp,m. A South Bend resident reported damage to his car while parked In Stepan lot. 
Sunday, November 1 
11:45a.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported that his car was broken into between Midnight Saturday and 
11:30 a.m. Sunday. His loss Is esti­mated at $190. 
!2:30p.m. A PW student reported a hit and run accident to her car while It was parked In the D2 lot be­tween 9:00 a.m. Saturday and Noon on Sunday. Damage is estimated at $100. 
5:25p.m. A Notre Dame employee 
reported the loss of her car keys In the Band Annex parking lot between 7:30a.m. and 3:00p.m. 
5:48p.m. A Farley Hall resident re­ported that on Wednesday someone vandalized her car while It was parked In the 02 lot. Her loss Is es­timated at •10. 

prosecute them for selling ille-by the editorial because our po­gal materials," said one adver-sition is clearly against censor· Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday tisement. ship," Cooper said. "We are fh hOb d rtl 1 
The last Sunday in Septem-only against that material that rqug server a Ve S ng. ber, thousands of petitions is not protected by the First Call239·5303 fqr details. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support ttl«! 
'1ftr:tm~!l:9!J2~~ 

werecirculatedatchlurFfc:h;es;:as:-:;;A:m::en:d:m;;en;t;·;";:;:;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;:;;;;:;::;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;::::::~~~~~~~~~~~~l 

Viewpoint
Monday, November 2, 1987 page 7 
Open your eyes to the problem of poverty 
As the cold winter months near, studens at Notre Dame can rest as­sured they will receive proper clothing, shelter and food. Yet, many of us fail to realize that numerous people are not as fortunate and lack the basic neces­sities to live a decent life. The time has come to ooen our eves. 
Rob Hahn 
guest column 
It has been over twenty years since President Lyndon Johnson declared his War on Poverty. Unfortunately, evidence shows that poverty has been victorious. Americans, on the whole, appear to be concerned. But let's face it. It's much easier to turn away from the problem, and that's what most Americans do. According to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., "the components of this economic revolution have been so complex, and the results so persuasive, that it is easy to overlook it." (welfare and poverty.) 
The problems surrounding the poor and welfare recipients exist. For exam­ple, speaking at Notre Dame a few weeks ago, economist John Kenneth Galbraith shed light on one of these main problems. Americans, according to Galbraith, go through a process of psychological denial, whereby convinc­ing themselves problems regarding the poor do not exist. In many instances, people's acknowledgement of poverty and welfare programs stops here at this psychological barrier. But for some, recognition of the problem goes a bit further where certain myths are en­countered. 
Welfare has had trouble succeeding because so many Americans are under the assumption that welfare recipients are too lazy to work or actually enjoy being on welfare. In reality, though, many of the recipients are unable to work for various reasons and do not like being on welfare. There is a definite need to educate these people as to how to help themselves. The welfare pro­gram has encountered more difficulties over the past twenty-two years. 
Within our government, where social programs are supposed to originate, there is an ideological conflict between Democrats and Republicans. Both the liberals and conservatives appear to show interest in welfare reform. But when the Democrats, long known for their social programs, look to redistribute our nation's income in an attempt to alleviate some of the prob­lems faced by poverty stricken individ­uals and families, they are faced with a Reagan Administration full of nice sounding welfare-related rhetoric, but also unwilling to cut military spending and raise taxes. A possible answer to begin to solve the poverty and welfare problems may be an outgrowth of this conflict. 
Let's open our eyes and see how this conflict can be resolved. A redistribu­tion of governmental funds poses as a plausible start to a solution. More money needs to be spent on social pro­grams, namely programs of welfare reform; less money need be ap­propriated to our military budget, spe­cifically nuclear weapons and Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) research. The focal point of Congressional and the Ad­ministration's concentration should not be on a military buildup, one that is by many standards too big already. Rather, we should work to provide everyone with suitable living condi­tions. 

The cold facts are apparent: One out of five children lives in poverty, two out of four black children and two of every five Hispanic children experi­ence the harsh effects of poverty. As Rep. Thomas J. Downey, D-N.Y., noted, we can "end child poverty by ending parental poverty." There is more to poverty and welfare reform than just children. Single women and minorities constitute another large percentage of those living in poverty. This is one rea­son for a greater need for aid to families with dependent children (AFDC), which has been seriously affected by cuts in the budget made by the Reagon Administration. With the facts evident, we must open our eyes to the problems and possible solutions. 
At the close of the 1987 Summer Con­ference on Peace and Justice Educa­tion, Fr. Edward Malloy, President of the University of Notre Dame, closed the conference by asking all Catholic colleges and universities to address the problems of justice and peace in soci­ety. This is exactly the type of aware­ness America's college and university students need. Mter becoming aware and receiving proper education, these students can, in turn, help the poor with different aspects of life. With this known, it is time to take action. 
Action can be taken locally to help welfare recipients, as well as those who lack certain educational skills. For in­stance, the Literary Council of St. Joseph County, Real Services, and Headstart are just a few of the many volunteer services in the South Bend area that aid many people who may either be receiving welfare or living in poverty. At the federal level, people can write letters to their Congressmen showing support for welfare reform bills currently in both the House and the Senate. 
To suggest there is a solution to com­pletely erase poverty would be incor­rect. There is a way to lessen these hardships and help people lead lives with a respectable amount of dignity. A means exists for everyone to become involved in the helping process. The problems of poverty will not simply dis­appear by avoiding the realities of the situation. So let's open our eyes and take action. 
Rob Hahn is enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. 

Reality absent from Doonesbury comics 
A general assumption, held in both intellectual and non-intellectual circles, has gone something like this: "Well, Garry Trudeau's comic strip "Doonesbury" can be tough, even vi­cious. But, shucks, he satirizes people and issues from all sides of the political spectrum. He plays no favorites." But in fact, although this would be con­venient for those on the liberal side of the political fence, it just ain't so. 
Kevin Smant 
guest column 
Think hack a moment. Who was it that had a news correspondent make a fictitious trip into Ronald Reagan's brain during the 1980 presidential cam­paign? Who in 1984 ridiculed George Bush as having put his manhood in a 
Doonesbury 
blind trust? Who recently had one of his characters ridicule the very idea of Jack Kemp running for president? Mr. Trudeau, of course, was the culprit each time. And a pattern clearly emerges. Trudeau regularly bashes those whom he considers conservative, yet conspicuously absent from his drawings are satires of Democrats. Don't Jimmy Carter, Walter Mondale, Gary Hart, Joe Biden (especially him!) et.al. provide some satirical fodder? 
Of course, Trudeau's writings do not deal solely with politics. He manages to push his liberal agenda through other topics. Very recently he attacked USA Today, suggesting that its positive, colorful view of America encourages Americans to ignore poverty and the threat of nuclear war. (Apparently Trudeau hasn't seen the latest declining unemployment figures.) He once in­vented an elderly homeless woman, ap­parently subliminally urging more federal dollars for the homeless. (Never mind that recent studies indi­cate that estimates of the number of homeless have been vastly exagger­ated.) And he has portrayed busines­smen convicted of insider trading as cold, calculating, immoral criminals who deserve the equivalent of the gulag. (Strangely, the far greater num­ber of street criminals -muggers, pick­pockets, rapists, etc.-currently prowl­ing America's streets never face Trudeau's moral wrath.) 

The sad fact is that Garry Trudeau's world is one in which reality is decidedly absent. It is a world in which Ronald Reagan can do nothing right, and the Democrats nothing wrong; in which if only people were a little nicer to everyone else -especially in the form 
Garry Trudeau 
UJ4R/JtN? 118?£'5 AN UP/JifTE OV THE IN­MATY3' /?EMANP5. I  7HING5 ARE R£/JCHING A lKJil.. IN 7HERE, 5/R. THE &VtN75 OF THE lAST FEW WUI<~ HAV/!3 l?eAUY TAI<&N  TH/5C4lh8CHAPPENIN6. 5/KH.P I CAN'T8£3 THE FIR5T /AlE CAU WA!lPEN EvtR 7D PR&­IU45HIN6­SIPE CNER AMINIMI..M  
THEJR7VU-.  TlJN, SIR.?  
I  

of higher taxes and accompanying federal goodies -our problems would fade away; in which America's foreign enemies apparently do not exist and anyway mean no harm. 
Perhaps once upon a time Mr. Trudeau was indeed an independent commentator on American society. But throughout this decade he has been little more than a man churning out the Democratic Party's latest line. He is perfectly free to accept this role, of course. His position as liberal icon suits him well. But the last two presidential elections suggest that becoming a liberal icon also means sliding dan­gerously close to a position of ir­relevance. Say what you will, Garry. But nobody's listening. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in history. 
Quote of the Day 
"For the heart that Is free, life Is a celebration of beauty, a festival of the Spirit." 
Unknown 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief......... . ...... Kevin Becker Business Manager . . . ........ Brian Murray Managing Editor. . . . ................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ..... ..... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor... ... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager .... ............. Melinda Chapleau News Editor............... . ........ Jim Ailey Production Manager . .................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... . . . . ... Chris Murphy Projects Manager..... ... Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor.............. . ............. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager . . . ...... Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Accent Editor ...... Michael Naughton Controller... .... Tracy Schindelethe administration of either institution. The News is repor\ljd as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor.... . ............. Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager... . ...... Laura Stanton
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board 
Photo Editor.......... . .............. Jim Carroll
Commentaries, leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of lhe school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners. IS encouraged. 
---------------------------~------~~------~------------------------------~~--~~-----------------­
Accent 
Monday, November 2, 1987 

a e 8 
Holy Cross Associates 
.More than 

MIKE NAUGHTON accent editor 
C
hile: In this small country of 12 million, poverty and political repression characterize the lifestyle of the masses. 
Chile: after a bloody military coup In 197.3, supported and orchestrated with the help of the CIA, General Agusto Plnoc­het came to power, overthrow­Ing and murdering the democratically-elected socialist president Salvador Allende. 
Chile: Under the military dic­tatorship of Pinochet for the past 14 years Chile has been the scene for an estimated .30, 000 political murders. .3, 000 people have disappeared and hundreds of thousands have been tortured or exiled. 
Chile: where poverty is so rampant that nearly .30, 000 Chileans are forced to rely on soup kitchens for their main meal. 
In this environment the Chilean Catholic Church has tirelessly worked to combat these economic and political human rights violations. The Congregation of Holy Cross has been In Chile since 194.3 when the first contingent of Holy Cross Priests arrived. During the past 44 years, the District of Chile has been vitally In­volved In the Chilean church In a variety of apostolates, espe­cially In education and pastoral ministry. 
The first Holy Cross Associate arrived In Chile in 1978. The Program has grown and ma­tured greatly since. Twenty-six Associates have completed their Involvement In the Pro­gram. At present, six men and three women are ministering in Chile and three more are In the first stages of their service. 
Three Notre Dame graduates who returned from Chile earlier this year, Joan Kellenberg, Lou Nanni, and Brigette Goulet, each display different motiva­tions, Impressions, and effects from their experience. 
Why did you choose to go to Chile? Joan: My reasons for wanting to go to Latin America, and 
specifically Chile, date back to 
my high school years. Due to my Christian upbringing and my family's belief that faith and action are Intricately linked, I was quite involved during high school In community service projects. As I entered Notre Dame, I became Increasingly aware, on an international' scale, of the disparity between 
the "haves" and..the "have­nets." After spending my soph­omore year op the Mexico foreign study Program, I returned to the states deeply shaken and moved by the knowledge that 80% of the human race live as "have-nots." Going to Chil~ was a natural step for me Itt terms of ex­panding my vision and experi­ence with the poor. 
Lou: I went to Chile as a Holy Cross Assocl~te, first and foremost btiause of a desire to grow in fc:dth and in service to others. I wanted to be more "God-centered and."other­centered" in my life, a.nd I feared the "1-centeredriess" that I saw so much of In the United States. I guess you could 5ay that I went to Chile not for some lofty altruistic reasons, but with a primary concern for my formation as a Christian and for my development as a caring human being. 
Brlgette: I went to Chile to simply learn, learn a new lan­guage, a new culture, a new way of being and a new way of looking at the world. I went to serve and was actually served. I went looking for peace and encountered people living In turmoil, In poverty with no run­ning water or electricity, some­times with barely enough to survive. I found peace in na­ture, in the mountains, and In 
"I went to Chile to be more 'God-centered' in my life, and I feared the 'I-centerdness' I saw so much of in the U.S. " 
the faith of the Chilean peasant farmers. For the extremely harsh living conditions, their trust in God and the church was endless. 
What did you do In Chile? 
Joan: I was involved in a number of different activities. My first year was spent almost exclusively In our parish in Penalolen, a large shanty town area of 120,000 people located 

an 'eye-opener' 
on the east side of Santiago. I organized several small first aid classes In the chapels, cooked with 20 women who had formed an "olla commun" (a Chilean-style soup kitchen) to feed their families, and helped to organize several groupS concerned with basic home repair--the heavy \\'Inter .............. 
rains destroy the pressed ''""'""'"w' cardboard roofs used in the shanty town, so often It rains inside the houses. l spent my second and third years working in a tiny library of Colegio Andacollo, a large and very poor combined elementary and high school on the south side of Santiago. I also coordinated a small group In our parish's family catechism program, working with a group of 10 single, divorced, or widowed mothers whose children were to receive their first holy communion. Finally, I sang and performed publicly with a small folklore group, learning to play Indigenous Instruments and to appreciate the wonderful latin american music. 
: I served two year~"(rit go as a lay mis­sionary. I · d as a teacher in two schools and, among other activities, ,visited women political prisonel'$ on a weekly basis. It wasfqr\B'Je far more than an eye~P¢~-ng experi­ence: the little ehlldren, hungry and cold, playing in muddied streets; the tQm.ired young wo­man, coura~qs yet con­sumed by f¢l:i,l';lhe drunken father, unemployed and unable to feed his famUy; the twelfth grade studentWith a bleeding ulcer caused.,:py !!!,cute eco­nomic and PQlltl¢al tensions. All these poop(¢; touched me profoundly and shaped signifi­cantly who T?ltn today. These two years e most diffi­cult, challen and most served with love. After lunch we 
usually set out to visit the old 
or sick and to announce the 
plans for the evening: liturgies, 
confirmation preparation or a general village get-together. After the liturgies we usually shared a cup of tea and bread with the family who took us in for•.the night. 
Mote than doing this, we of­ten were simply present to the people. We gave them a time and a way to...~.l)<i!,re theJr bur­den which more often thah not was carried alone. Our most important times were those home visits. We, the Chileans and the missionaries, shared 
We gave them a time and a way to share their burden which more of­ten than not they 
carried alone. " 
our lives in the most profound way--often verbally un­expressed. We valued each other as people, as friends, ~S teachers. I learned and I taught. We were mutual, at times learning more than teaching and at times teaching more than learning, but atiall times growing together lifS people of faith. ·· 
What effect has the. Chile program had on yo~? 
Joan: I have beel')iback in the states for onlythree months, so rstnt find myself in the "cultute shock" stage, re­aqjusting tp a life of comforts and commqdltles after three years of llyJhg In a shanty town. Tfierefore, it is difficult to plripoint the "effects" of the e~erience, as in "before" and 
,J·•·''after" photos. However, the last three years have been, 
formative of mfllfe. ·... ;without doubt, the happiest, 
Brlgette: I llv¢0 in a very most challenging, and most small rural Vll of 400 fulf1lllng years of my life. Living people. To arr t this town within the context of dire we took a rick school poverty and serious political 
turmoil forces a person to face
bus over a on .··.··· ·.·...•·•..· dirt road;'\ which wound through the .., reality head on, whether or not mountains. I a house'1 that reality is pleasant. And It with two othe ssociates~ forces me to continually exam-We had long fU eks. Tues-ine my faith in order to deter­day mornings w .... t on the mine how God plays an inte­bus which took U isolated gral role in my dally life. The sectors of the ric;;h riycpr valley Chilean poor have helped me in the middle of tbeAndean to better understand the mountains. We usuallY' arriVed meaning of generosity, around lunchtime and often we solidarity and hope, despite were invited in to share the tremendous odds, and I am main meal with the peasant profoundly grateful to them. farmers. Although the diet was Lou: Returning to the United simple--beans, rice, bread, States after the Holy Cross As­potatoes and onions--it was sociates experience is not easy. 
It leaves one questioning money, the way our world com­munity is ordered, and about one's responsibilities as a Christian and a member In that community. I have a stronger sense of values and faith than ever before, and I'm confident that It will lead me to other experiences of displacing myself to grow In faith and ser­vice to others. 
Brlgette: The people of Chile arid the environment of north rural Chile.,, had a profound impact on mylife. I learned to live in tune with nature and became aware of God in na­ture's cycles. J experienced the beauty of sowings and the har­vest. I became even more aware that the simple things in life are those which are important--an afternoon tea, a chat, a walk, a shared meal, no matter how meager. 
What are your plans for the future? 
Joan: I am certain that I will return to Latin America and therefore have chosen to return to school to get joint degrees In ilursing and mid-wifery. This 
"'"'Will allow me to return to Latin America trained to help in a specific capacity. Health care is a fundamental right of all people, but the poor through­out the world are forced to live without it, and oftentimes, un­fortunately, consider It to be a privilege of the rich. 
Lou: This year I'm Involved in a master's program In Peace Studies with eleven others from various parts of the world. It has been an excellent opportu­nity for me to learn about other cultures and to work to­gether for justice and peace. At this moment I'm not sure what my next step will be. I do, however, have a stronger sense of values and faith than ever before, and I'm confident that It will lead me to other experi­ences of displacing myself--to grow in faith and service to others. 
Brlgette: I live in the Catholic Worker for homeless families In South Bend; I have always wanted to do this. While in Chile I learned the meaning of hospitality--people opened their doors to me and I In turn slowly learned to open my doors, both literally and figura­tively. 
This year's application dead­line is Nov. 6. For further infor­mation contact Jane Pitz at 239-5521 Mary Ann Roemer 
239-7949. 


Business
Monday, November 2, 1987 
page 9 

The birth of a business: how Mateo's got started 
By SUSAN COENE Business Writer 
Does Hungarian Noodle Bake sound good for dinner tonight? If not, Mateo's Sub Shop, the newest South Bend at­traction might be a tastier al­ternative. 
Founders Matt Sowash and Tony Furjanic saw a ·need in South Bend and met it. 
How did it all get started? 
Matt Sowash, a native of State College, Pennsylvania, was a high school buddy of former Notre Dame football captain Tim Scannell. Sowash, in his frequent visits to Notre Dame, noticed the lack of a sub shop that delivered to the stu­dents. 
After his graduation from Penn State, the sandwich lover from the East came out to the midwest with a plan to open up his own sub shop. 
Last January he began the necessary research. Sowash created a portfolio of popula­tion information, traffic pat­terns in the city, the competi­tion and profit and cost projections. Everything was ready, all he need was money. 
That's where Tony Furjanic comes in. 
Sowash met Furjanic through Scannel and they soon became friends. 
Furjanic, at the time, was a middle line backer and later became defensive captain for the Irish. After graduating Furjanic signed with the Buf­falo Bills as an 8th round draft pick. 
Sowash realized Furjanic might have money available for investing. He presented his research findings and asked Furjanic to join the business venture. 
Furjanic quickly agreed. 
The establishment of Mateo's <Italian for Matt) was underway. 
The two then proceeded to the bank to get a loan backed financially by Furjanic. 
Sowash and Furjanic formed a corporation named SOJANIC. 
"A corporation as opposed to a partnership will allow us the flexibility to expand into other business fields," said Sowash. 
One possibility under consid­eration is real estate. 
Mateo's opened on July 16th in time for the Special Olym­pics. 
Those who've tried Mateo's can attest that they offer deli­cious subs. From classic hoagies to pizza subs to diet turkey breast subs (with light mayo! ) , Mateos offers a varied menu. 
The subs are packed with meat, unlike other sub shops who weigh their portions Sowash claims, "People want beef, not a lot of bread." For now management's main ob­jective is to offer value to the customer. They are not worried about the profit per sandwich. This is obvious con­sidering the generous size of the sandwiches and their reasonable prices ($2.50 to $5.00 depending on the length­7,14 or 18 inches). 
Mateos at this point is more concerned with volume and es­tablishing their product. 
Mateos' mainstay is their delivery services. Although it is not quite up to par yet, Fur-

Budget talks making 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -White House and congressional negotiators ended their first week of budget talks Saturday without an agreement but with indications that some of the pieces were falling into place. 
"We're making a little head­way," said Sen. Pete V. Domenici, R-N.M., senior Re­publican on the Senate Budget Committee, after the hourlong session. 
Rep. William H. Gray III, D­Pa., said it was difficult for people to leave behind "ideological and political pos­tures" that they brought into the talks, but progress was being made. 
Earlier Saturday, House Speaker Jim Wright, who did not attend the talks, told reporters the Democrats were working to pare $6 billion off a mammoth spending bill due for House action this week. That would "demonstrate our good faith" toward deficit reduction, he said. 
Last week, Wright, D-Texas, forced through the House, by a single vote, a Democratic­drafted plan for $12 billion in tax increases plus some entitle­ment cost-cutting, also aimed at reducing the deficit. 
The speaker had to use some heavy-handed parliamentary tactics to squeeze out the vic­tory, and the ensuing Republi­can rancor resulted in a rare Saturday session, during which nothing was accomplished be­cause too few lawmakers were in town to form a quorum. 
White House chief of staff Howard Baker, Treasury Sec­retary James Baker and budget director James Miller attended Saturday's closed-door meeting with a bipartisan group of legislators. 
"We keep meeting. If we keep meeting, that's the way to make progress," Secretary 
janie states, "We're trying to 
improve our delivery 
procedures in order to provide 
speedier service to our custom­
ers." Delivery is their main 
hedge against their competi­
tion, namely Subway and The 
Yellow Submarine. 
Mateos' prime market is 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­
dents to whom most of Mateo's 
advertising is directed. 
One of Mateos' other busi­
ness strategies is to receive the 
Observer every day and plan 
according to the dining hall's 
menu. "Business is pretty 
steady, but it does depend in 
part on that nights dinner," 
Sowash said. If it's goulash 
night, they expect a busy night 
and bring in an extra driver or 
two. 
"A couple weeks ago," relates Furjanic, "a fatty corned beef was served and we were swamped!" 
Another influence to sales is Notre Dame's performance on the football field. 
"When Notre Dame Plays well our sales increase," said Furjanic. He added, "The phones were really dead after our loss to Pitt." 
Furjanic reminisces, "I went to Notre Dame, and I know what it's like to go to the dining hall every night. I also know what it is like to scrounge to­gether ten bucks for a pizza that doesn't fill you up. Our goal is to give the best sand­wich for the best price." 
Mateos is a perfect example of entreprenuers putting ideas and money into profits. The result is inexpensive, quality food for students. 
progress 
Baker said, declining further comment. 
The goal of the meetings is to come up with a deficit reduc­tion plan before Nov. 20, when the Gramm-Rudman law re­quires $23 billion in across-the­board spending cuts unless an alternative is enacted. 
The negotiators' minimum task at this point is actually slightly larger than the statutory $23 billion. Legisla­tion passed so far this year has slightly worsened the expected fiscal 1988 deficit. So, $24.8 bil­lion in deficit reduction must now be found to yield a net $23 billion for the year, which began Oct. 1. 
The automatic cuts, however, would still be limited by law to the $23 billion. 
The negotiations last week included possible freezes on spending in many domestic and military programs, except for selected high-priority items. 

Christmas gift ideas 
u Futrex Inc. has developed the latest method in measur­ing body fat. As physical fitness continues to enter into the high-tech age, the demand for an accurate body fat guage is rising. Through expanding a system used by the U.S. Agricultural Department, Futrex has developed a simple, relatively inexpensive body fat guage. 
The regular model, which sells for $300, is a infrared baton that is held in one's hand. When held up to the right bicep of a righthanded person (and vice versa), a certain amount of light penetrates the muscle producing a readout of fat content and muscle tone. The entire process takes ten seconds. Serious physical fitness buffs can purchase the deluxe model for $500 which prints out exercise and diet ideas. 
Wholihan and Murray 
Business Briefs 

u 1988 wil see China Business Machines Inc. introduce an electric typewriter that prints Chinese characters. The idea employed by CBM is one of minimizing the number of keys to 49 by using a computer program that copies the strokes of handwritten Chinese. This will allow a typist who knows Chinese to type at speeds that approach those of typing in English. CBM, led by M. Burdett Merryman in San Diego, will also soon produce a compatible word processor and ter­minal. 
u The recent drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average has commanded much attention from investors and non­investors alike. Many corporations believe that their stock is now a good buy. Several companies are buying back their own stock in order to take advantage of the low prices. Small investors may be able to follow the corporations' lead and purchase low price, high quality stocks. 
An investor should look at a company's earnings and po­tential before buying a stock on the weakness of its price. Some of the more notable companies announcing buybacks this past week include; Allegis, Bally Manufacturing, IBM, Morton Thiokol, and Pacific Telesis. 
u Advertising for Miller's Real Draft Beer has focused on how their beer is not heat pasteurized which supposedly kills the taste of beer. Some of these ads portray Budweiser bottles being heated on a stovetop or processed in a hot factory. Although not wishing to enter a beer war, the makers of Budweiser, Anheuser Busch Inc., will begin a line of com­mercials revealing that Miller Lite is heat pasteurized twice and has sugar added to compensate for the bitter taste re­sulting from this process. One fact that Anheuser Busch is not publicizing is that Miller Real Draft is brewed using a process bought from the Japanese beer company Saporo. So much for being made the American way. 
Battle of the l111ports 
The Top Five Imported Beers 
36.2 
35 
-(/) 
Q) (/) 
co 
u 
...... 
0 
(/) 
c 
0
=15 
E 
MONDAY'S SPECIAL WEDNESDAY'S SPECIAL 55 cent Busch Draft 90 cent Molson's 
"'Rf#ection Night" 
TOESDA Y'S SPECIAL 

5 cent Bud Draft per letter 
75 cent BUSCH CANS 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Monday, November 2, 1987

page 10 The Observer 
Hussein comes from behind
Sports Briefs 
to beat NYC Marathon field 
The ND soccer team lost both of its games in California this weekend. UCLA scored two second-half goals to defeat the Irish Saturday, 3-2, and San Diego State defeated Notre Dame Sunday, 1-0. Details appear in Tues­day's Observer. -The Observer 
The women's soccer team will have a meeting for members interested in playing Turners Indoor Soccer today at 7 p.m. in the PW party lounge. -The Observer 
A lacrosse workout will be held today. Meet in the ACC lockerroom at 3:30p.m. -The Observer 
Squash Club T-shirts are in. Members can get their shirts by contacting Allan at 3211. Members are also en­couraged to sign up for the NVA squash tournament. Dead­line is Nov. 4. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A confident Ibrahim Hussein of Kenya caught early pacesetter Pat Petersen shortly past the 14­mile point and coasted to vic­tory Sunday in the 18th New York City Marathon. 
Hussein, ninth in the 1985 race in his marathon debut and fifth last year, was timed at 2 hours, 11 minutes, 1 second. He became the first African to win the race. 
Priscilla Welch of Britain led all the way in easily capturing the women's title in an unoffi­cial 2:30:16. 
Welch, who will be 43 on Nov. 22, became the oldest women's winner in the New York City Marathon. The previous oldest winner was Miki Gorman, who was 42 years, 75 days when she won for the second consecutive time in 1977. 
For Hussein, 29, a former Western Athletic Conference steeplechase champion at the University of New Mexico, this was his fifth marathon and third victory. 
He won the Honolulu Marat­hon in 1985 in a course record 
2: 12: 08 and bettered it last year in defending his title in 2: 11:44. He also has won the Bay To Breakers Race in San Fran­cisco in 1984 and 1985 and was the first men's finisher in the 1986 Trevira Twosome 10-mile race in New York. 
Early in the 26-mile, 385-yard race through New York's five boroughs, Petersen tried to steal the race. The top Ameri­can finisher in the 1984 New York City Marathon when he placed fourth, and in 1985 when he was third, Petersen set a blistering early pace, opening a 35-second lead at five miles. 
Hussein reeled him in shortly past the halfway point. 
Petersen hung on to second place before being overtaken in the closing stages and placing fourthin2:12:03, behind Gianni DeMadonna of Italy (2:11:53) and Pete Pfitzinger (2: 11: 54), the 1984 U.S. Olympic Trials marathon winner. Tommy Ekblom of Finland finished fifth in 2: 12:31. 
Italy's Orlando Pizzolato, the 1984 and 1985 New York City Marathon champion, made his usual second-half charge, moving into third place at one stage before fading to sixth in 2:12:50. 

Tile a...-Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· cMnl c.m., -=c:epta claulfled edwa11•1Q from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through FridaJ. The a...-Selrrt Mely'a offlce, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, -=c:epta claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through FridaJ. Deedllne for next~ claaalfledsls3 p.m. All claaalfleds must 
Classifieds be pnlllllld, either In penon Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five c:tw.ctera parday. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
TYPING-WORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Typing 237·1949 or 277-8131 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1015 DAY. 
Soon the Prophecies ol the Invasion ol Israel and the Great Earthquake will be lullllled (cl. Ezekiel38, Danlel12). Form· lng a community, seH·sufflclent In food and energy, to survive, God Willing, the coming destruction. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, South Bend, Indiana 46634· 4475 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST-Gold Cross and Chain Sentimental Value --Please call Doug 2327 
REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD WED. BEFORE BREAK I LEFT A GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WITH A RED STRIPE IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL AT LUNCH. MY MOTHER GAVE ME THAT SHIRT BEFORE SHE RETURNED TO PANAMA. IT IS MY FA· VORITE SHIRT AND I MISS MY MOT· HER VERY MUCH. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD 
LOST BLACK LEATHER GLOVE be­tween Howard and Administration Build­ing on Tuesday, October 27. To return, please call 2548 or return to Lost and Found. 
Lost: Gold St. Christopher medal sur· rounded by 10 small pearls with Maureen inscribed on the back. Extreme senti men· IHI value. Lost on Saturday Oct. 24. REWARD" found. Call (818) 795·7535 collect and ask lor Mary. 
Lost: CLASS RING WITH DARK BLUE STONE REWARD--PLEASE CALL 271· 
0480 
LOST: One pelr ol gill-In a hard black caM. II found, pluM call Mark 
P. et 23~13 or 283-1539. God at... 
You. 
WANTED 
wanted babyaltter lor five month old baby two days a week tueeday and thureday 11 pm till 3pm ten minutes from Notre Dame call 287 9087 after 4pm 
FOR SALE 
£ ROUND TRIP TICKETS Vlllld 1111ywheN lor • friiCIIon o1 airline coat 
call John x2012 
;;;;;:·~i;-~2'iJ;;n;d'A'i~i;;;";;;;;;t.:j;fj, tlcketa to ·~ In the contl,..gl 
u.s. 1200 • or beet ofllr. c.ll T,_ 81277·1773 . 
..........................................._.................. 
TICKETS 
..................................................... 
NEED 1 GA FOR BC CALL SHAWN AT 2235 
CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES IIIII! 
********************************* ********************************* 
I really, really, really need 1 Alabama ticket. Student or GA will do. Calf John at 283· 
2445. 
********************************* ********************************* 
BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a 
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered lor BC GA's I'm holding your family hostage Please call Chris X 1489 
Neeo···Ai:AeAMA...GA...rix:···-p;,:;..eiG 
BUCKS!! CALL JOE 287-4581 after Bpm. 
BC Yep, I need two GAs lor the Boston Col· lege game. Please call Mike at 271.0765. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
TICKETS NEEDED Wulthy Wall St. Alum naeda Penn St. and BC tlx. Call Matt 1-800.223-8558. 
NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL JOHN AT 3064 
IF YOU'LL SELL ME 2 BC TIX FOR A REASONABLE PRICE, CALL 293·2916. 
I NEED GAa FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-8308 
NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· ETS TO ALABAMA va. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814) 5315-9490 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 288-4494 AFTER 5 PM. 
NEED 2 BC TICKETS. CALL KRIS )(2800. 
NEED BOSTON COLL GA TIXI Will pay big bucks. Call Joe after Bpm at287-4561 
HELP HELP HELP HELP NEED MANY BC TX STUD AND GA CALL TONY 2067 
I NEED 2 BAMA G.A.a. PLEASE CALL MARC AT 288-7105.$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED B.C. STUDENT TICKETS CALL VAZ AT 271-0579 PAY BIG $$$ 
NEED BC TIX. CALL 272-8282. $$$$$. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2-8 BAMA GA'S $$$ DAD WILL PAY $$$ CALL JIM AT 293·3669 
$$$$$ $$$$$$ Need 'Bama G.A.'s 272· 4182 
Deaparately need BC tickets. Will pey lots ol $. Call Becky 277-3835 
DESPERATELY NEED BCTIX KEVIN X 2381 
BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDS! Call John 271·0939 
Will trade 2 BC GA'alor 2 Barna GA'a. Call Marla at £4559 
NEED B.C.,BAMA TIX-CHRIS 1609 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. G.A.s call £1852, ask lor Bryan. Will pay $$$. 
DESPERATE Student willing to pay major dollars lor 4 Bama tix. (G.A.or stud.) call Hugh at 2120. 
WANTED: One student Bama ticket. I'm willing to sport you major $. Call Dave at 4779 or 2120. 
I have your Alabama tickets BUT.... I need BC tickets; will trade staight across call me pleaselllll Meleah x2674 
I NEED A BC STUDENT OR GA TICKET FOR A MEMBER OF TED KENNEDY'S STAFF CALL STEVE X1654 
NEED BC OR 'BAMA TIX. CALL 303· 279-0985. 
FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT NEEDS 4 
B.C. GA'S REACH HIM CO MATT 283­3549 
NEED STUD TICKETS OR GA'S 1 BC AND 1 ALABAMA ·WILL PAY $ PLEASE CALL TRACY 4094 
BC student or GA ticket needed, call Dave x1589 
I HAVE ALABAMA GA'S AND NEED BC GA'SII CALL RENE·4001 
BOSTON COLLEGE NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL JEFF £1453 
TRADE 2 BAMA STU TIX FOR 2 BC ANDY 239·5607 
WANTED: 8 NO va ALABAMA TICK· ETS, TOP DOLLAR PAID. CALL BOB AT 293-5821 FROM 8-5 PM. 
Did your parents lose money in the stock market? Mine didn't so they have LOTS ol CASH lor ANY BC TICKETS! Call MIKE at 4245 
I need 3 BAMA tickets! Will pay blg bucks. Astrella 271·9438 
I need 2 BC tickets! Student or GA. Please call Astrella 271·9438 
I NEED 2 'BAMA TIXI $$$ NO OPTION. CALL TED 287 ·5541 
NEED ALABAMA TIX BAD X3137 
WILL BEAT ANY OFFER ON STUDENT TICKETS FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL CHRISTY 3829 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SHANNON x2519. 
I NEED 'BAMA STUD TIX. CALL DOC 
3347!8 
ATTENTION:AIR FORCE INTERESTS There are two AIR FORCE PILOTS (Worthemlth AFB) coming to talk to us about their exparlencee and 1utunt career. They uk lor two Boaton College GA'e TIXS, TOOl PLEASE HELP THE PILOTS. They will pay $$$ lllnteraaled In AIR FORCE, you Cllll talk ID them. PLEASE SELL ME TIXS u-I'll tell ~ when Its about PLEASE CALL ME X3276 AIM HIGHI 

Need 4 Boston C.·ND tix. GA or Std. Pairs preferred. Good bucks. Call 233· 2651. 
HELP!. .. HELP ME SHOW A BC STU· DENT WHAT IT REALLY MEANS TO BE A CATHOLIC. I WANT TO TRADE AN ALABAMA STUD. TICKET OR $$ FOR A BC STUD OR GA. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL MIKE AT 3419 OR 3413. THANKS. 
PERSONALS 
WAKE UPI 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER a. UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM. MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM! WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
NEED BC TIX·CALL KATHY 284-5531 
................................................................ 
SCOTT C. THANKS FOR PUTTING UP WITH ME THIS WEEK.I'M SORRY.! STILL HAD A WONDERFUL TIME THANKS TO YOU.YOUR GREAT, I AD· MIT IT!! CAN'T WAIT TO SEE YOU AGAIN. I LOVE YOU, STACCI K. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM· PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS "HOW TO CONDUCT AN EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN" TONIGHT 8:30 p.m., 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL PAUL REYNOLDS, CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL MAJORS AND CLASSES WELCOME. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM· PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS "HOW TO CONDUCT AN EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN" TONIGHT 8:30 p.m., 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. PAUL REYNOLDS, CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL MAJORS AND CLASSES WELCOME. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM· PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS "HOW TO CONDUCT AN EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN" TONIGHT, 8:30P.M., 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL MAJORS AND CLASSES WELCOME. 
CILA lnv~es you to a general meeting for the Summer Program in Mexico Wed· needay, Nov. 4, at 7:30p.m. in the esc Call Mike at x1049 or Dan at 277·0804 lor details 
Lou-Thanks lor making my 19th so spe· cia!. I had the best time, except lor the "lake"(lt was Iunny though). I know now never to doubt you again. One warning though, ba prepared in Feb. I adore revenge. ·M 
Rommell·l'm so glad you could help me celebrate my 19th. Thanks for roadtrip­plng It up. Hope you had as much fun as It did. Let's do ~ egaln next year. ·M 
HAPPY 19th B·DAY MARK! Have a nice awlm, but bring a blanket-we wouldn't want you to get mono! ·L 
JEANNE You've been there from the beginning. You became my best friend when I believed that I was out here all alone. You've introduced me to two very Inter· esting guys and a special bond has been formed between the lour ol us. Thanks lor being such a good friend. HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY II 
Your future roomie 

................................................................ 
LAW STUDENTS! MONARCH will be at CHIP'S tuesday $2 pitchers 
................................................................ CLASS OF 88 SENIOR BARN BASH ­
Diamond D Ranch $8 tickets sold MTW Senior Class office (NO) LeMans lobby (SMC) Transports· lion provided 21 ID REQUIRED 
................................................................ 
GET YOUR TEAMS TOGETHER 
TODAY! 
SMC INTRAMURALS PRESENTS: 
4 ON 4 CO·ED VOLLEYBALL 
ENTRIES AVAILABLE AT ANGELA 

ATHLETIC TODAY! 
................................................................ 
Oh no, I'm glad I didn't go to UCLA 
................................................................ 
LMS I'd love to card you -The Bouncer 
:r~··ih~.v~~ii-i;d·;·i~·'Ni;;i;~;j-'M'ENs 
ROOM, give me a call aometlme, I'd REALLY like to meet you, PleaH? Deve £1424 
To the red-haired girl who listened to my bad day on my way to lunch at South last Friday: My sincerest thanks lor your kindness. --"Grumpy" 
Riders needed to WASH. D.C. to share costs and company lor weekend ol Nov. 
7. Call Rich x1765. 
WANT TO BE ABLE TO GO NUTS ON STAGE WITH A COMEDIAN WHO'S A REGULAR ON LATE NIGHT WITH DAVID LETTERMAN? KEEP WATCH­ING THE OBSERVER FOR DETAILS 
BRADY BUNCH FILM FESTIVAL 234-7748 

HELP MEl I NEED ONE BC TICKET. CALL ALLISON AT 1340. 
..................................................... 
SORIN HALL'S 99th ANNUAL TALENT SHOW 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8th AT 8:30PM ON THE FRONT STEPS OF SORIN COLLEGE 

Sqt. Robin (Keen) Squyres, I hope you enjoyed your week of flattery. Your un­known jokester 
SURVEYIII SURVEYIII SURVEYIII THE FIRST ANNUAL STUDENT BODY SURVEY IS COMINGIII WATCH FOR IT IN YOUR MAILBOXIII 
................................................................ 
Anyone going lol THAT PETROL EMO. TION on Nov 8? I NEED A RIDEI II thera'a any room In your car, pluu cell Kethy 2823. 
KARA CUDZILO Irs the end of the world as we know It, 
but I feel FINE/I LOVE R.E.M. -U2?1 Concert Weekend '8711 BLAST OFF!! Later Tater/ ·-MCD DON'T CHANGE MAJORS JUST TO 
GET A JOB 11 teaching, nursing, engineering, medicine, law or the career that youhave been planning lor is important to you, then think about working with us. We're looking lor men and women with vision and dedication. We're the Maryknoll Mis· sioners: A contemporary , professional response to the people and problems ol the 20th and 21st Centuries by Roman Catholic Priests, Brothers and Sister. CALL: Father Skip Flynn (312) 787·8496. 
LAST CHANCEl Limited apace ramalna on Notre Dame Winter Ski Bruka to Steamboat, Vall, Winter Park and Brackenridge lor live or Hven nlghta deluxe lodging, lift tickets, mountain baribacue, akl race and more !rom only 5154. Optional air and charter bua tranaportatlon available. Hurry, call SunchaH Toura toll lrH lor lull detalla and color brochure, 1· 80().321-5911 TODAYI 
HAAMANI<ARDON CASSETTE DECK MODEL 291 lor sale. Asking $190. 2 years old, works like a dream! Complete packaging, manuals. Call 287·8249 il in· terested. 
......................................................,......... CLUB 23 PRESENT $2.50 PITCHERS OF BEER EVERY MONDAY THROUGHOUT THE REST OF THIS SEMESTER. 
LOST: GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WRED STRIPE IN S. DINING HALL ON WED. BEFORE BREAK. MY MOTHER GAVE ME THIS SHIRT BEFORE SHE RETURNED TO PANAMA. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. I WILL PAY YOU$$$ 
LOST GOLQoBRONZE EARRINGS... wire-looped, triangles... lost between south quad and football stadium day of USC game ... Please call 2548 or return to Lost and Found. Thank You. 
SALAD BAR BOY: We uw your advertlumenta all over North Quad. Whet'• the going rate?l?t -lnteraatad North Quad acopera 
After many yars ol hard work, effort, and excessive partying, Mary Marchal haa reached the ripe old age ol 22. II you-Mary today, wlah her • happy birthday and toea her Into the nunaat pile olleavea. WE LOVE YOU MARY HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND MANY MORElli Your glockenaptel pertnera In crime, 
Glenna, Karen, and Mike 
"To ba you fellow You may deny me But I'll be your 
Servant whether 
You will or no." 
Miranda 
The Temptest 
Physics Chicks I know how much you enjoy getting per· sonata, so here's another one. And to one ol you, I forgive you lor that comment you made. (But 1969 was a good year.) 
z 

Monday, November 2, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
Watson ends three-year skid with Nabisco Tournament win 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO -Tom Wat­
. son, exhibiting the gritty deter­mination that once made him the game's greatest player, ended a three-year victory famine Sunday in the richest tournament golf has seen. 
Watson, the leader all the way, scrambled to a final­round 2-under-par 68 and a two­stroke victory over Chip Beck in the Nabisco Championships of Golf, the final official event on the PGA tour schedule this year. 
It was the 32nd victory of his PGA career -not including his five British Open titles -and his first since July 1984. 
The tournament carried a $2 million purse, plus another $1 million for the Nabisco Grand Prix of Golf, which also ended in this tournament. 
Despite finishing dead last in a 30-man tournament that of­fered the most prize money in tour history, Curtis Strange took the season's money­winning title with a record $929,941. 
But the . honor he wanted ­Player of the Year -eluded him. That went to Paul Azinger, like Strange a three-time winner this season. 
In a tournament that offered almost 10 percent of the total tour purse for 1987, the Player of the Year title turned on scoring average. Strange's 293 total for this event knocked him out of the Top 10 in scoring average and handed the title to Azinger. 
No one handed the title tn Watson, however. It was a grim, tight-lipped struggle with himself over the last few holes at the Oak Hills Country Club course. 

Armed with a four-shot lead, Watson, fighting the pressure of that long non-winning string, began to struggle on the 14th ' hole. 
He missed the green on the next four holes, bogeying the 16th. On the 14th, 15th and 17th he put his new-found confi~ dence in his putter to the test. And it was not wanting. 
At the same time, however, Beck began a run as he birdied the 16th as Watson bogeyed and moved within two shots of the lead. 
He birdied No. 17 and moved within one. 


Twins look forward to proVing season was no fluke 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Proving that their 1987 World Series tri­umph was not a fluke could be just the motivation the Min­nesota Twins need to repeat. 
"We'll be the underdogs again next year," said relief ace Jeff Reardon. "I'm sure we'll have to make believers out of some people, which is a good goal. It would be nice to go out and win 100 games." 
To do that, the Twins will need to improve 1987 road Twins owner Carl Pohlad, record of 29-52, the worst ever who purchased the club in 1984, for a first-place finisher. Their said that the club's gutsy char­regular-season home record of acter will keep players hungry 56-25 was the best in baseball for another championship. for 1987 and the Twins became "When you win the big one the first team ever to win all you get one of two things,'' Poh­four home games in a World lad said. "You get momentum Series. or you get complacent." 
''I really feel like we have To protect the momentum, it something to live up to," said will be important for contract third baseman Gary Gaetti, the negotiations to go smoothly MVP of the American League during the offseason, said playoffs. "This thing wasn't a pitcher Bert and first fluke." baseman 

You can do a lot more with your degree than juat qet a job. Aa a Navy officer, you can lead the adventure J 
• No experience necessary
* ALL majora con&idered 
Today' a Navy ia top-flight people working with the beat in their field. It's olao aophiaticated technical and management train~ inq in executive, managerial, professional, acientific and technical poaitiona. 
You don't have to wait until you graduatel 
Navy Officer representatives will be on 
campua conducting an exclusive teating 
aeaaion. All interested atudents who are 
within 3 yeara of graduating are encouraged 
to take advantage or thil opportunity. 
TeatinQ take1 approximately 3't houri and 
aeata are limited•. 
DATE: November 6, 19.87 
PLACE:_ Placement Office Conference Room 
Testing appointment may be obtained by calling __;2:.:5:.::6_-=-14:.::5;,:::;5_____ 
ELJGH I OFF ICEK: 
Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 correctable vision. Ages 19-26. Operate the electronic• ' computers in the Navy's neweat aircraft. 
BUSI~Ess MANA~'~' 
tart at ,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Finance, personnel, loqistica.Ages 19-28. 
EmilllEER: 
Start at $23,500 ($45,000 after 4 years). Bonus when selected, Project management. Engineering/Science/Technical major. Ages 19-28. 
SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS: 
NAVA~o~*!~!!2~ ~@£~!~-year or community College that are undecided about continuing college may qualify for immediate Pilot training. Requirementat 60 aemeater hours, 2.5 GPA, 'pass the aptitude test. Single/no dependents. 

Plotg tl.cer Training at AOCS (Pensacola, FL) during Junior year summer break and upon completion of BS/BA degree. 
8ACC~LAO~r81 E mREE CQMPLE IION PB~GBAM: , 
n A l.rmatl.ve Actl.on programer students with a "8" average, or better. Selected atudentl will receive $1000 a month until graduation. No drilling or meetings required. 
EXCEk!!~~@kr=~G fN~~~l29s $!~~~~lntR~~R~~~ineering 1 Math, Physice, or Chemistry. Muat maintain a 3.3/4.0 GPA. Selected students will receive $1100 a month until qraduation, plus additional bonuses. No drilling or meetings required. 
Mrut be a U.S. citizen & in good health. 
NAVY.OFFICER. 

LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 
==-=-----­

"It's going to take consis­Vice President Andy MacPhail tency again. Togetherness and should "make sure they make consistency," said Blyleven, everybody happy so we can get who also pitched for the 1979 everyone on the club back world champion Pittsburgh here," Hrbek said. Pirates. MacPhail would not com­
Asked if the Twins under ment on his strategies for Pohlad have been fair in shoring up the club other than negotiations, Blyleven said, saying "a lot of people have "They've been a helluva a lot easily recognized we need better than Calvin Griffith," pitching." who was the previous owner. Pohlad said he would wait for 
Hrbek said repeating as a report from MacPhail on the world champions will take an­team's needs before comment­other year of "not counting on ing on possible changes. Poh­one guy and staying free of in­lad, however, did say his team juries." needs two new starting 
Pohlad and Twins Executive pitchers. 
JOQO!:IOCO""~ 

Happy Birthday Chopper 
21 years old 
November 2nd, 
1987 
Love Dad, Mom, Amy & Wendy 



-~--~--------­

----~--------~------------------­
page 12 The Observer Monday, November 2, 1987 
, 'Rookie' l?ickerson
JIJ,... 

,debuts w1th Colts 
AP Photo Mark Clayton caught two touchdown passes In Miami comeback win over Pittsburgh Sunday. See the AP roundup below. 
Bears overcome another scare, 
Associated Press 
Jim McMahon had to turn up the tempo Sunday to get his 24th consecutive victory as a starting quarterback for the Chicago Bears. 
McMahon, with the Bears trailing 28-14, went to a hurry­up offense in the second half and threw two touchdown passes to Willie Gault in the fourth quarter, leading Chicago to a 31-28 victory over the Kansas City Chiefs. 
"I went to the hurry-up be­cause we know what we're doing and and it keeps the other team off balance," McMahon said. "I was happy because I started throwing right away. They had stopped our running so I decided to throw." 
49ers 31, Rams 10 
Joe Montana completed 21 of 30 passes for 294 yards and three touchdowns in San Fran­cisco's rout of Los Angeles. 
Montana marched the 49ers 80 yards to a score on their first possession on Tom Rathman's nine-yard touchdown run. After the Rams made it 7-3, Montana threw touchdown passes of 17 yards to Mike Wil­son and two yards to John Frank and Ray Wersching kicked a 22-yard field goal in the second period for a_ 24-3 halftime lead. 
Oilers 31, Bengals 29 
Warren Moon's quarterback­sneak touchdown with 55 seconds remaining completed a 17-point Houston rally in the closing minutes against Cincin­nati. 
UCATIONAL MEDIA 
eotape11 I 

Inaugural Mass lr . Malloy's Inauguration Now available from Educational Media Rm 9tD 
IVIass $24.95 lnaug...retion $34.95 VHS, Beta, or 8rTYn VIdeo Tape 
Redskins 27, Bills 7 
Jay Schroeder threw two touchdown passes to Kelvin Bryant and the Washington defense intercepted Buffalo's Jim Kelly three times. 
Running back George Rogers returned to the Redskins starting lineup after a shoulder injury and keyed the Washington rushing attack with 125 yards, while the Redskins defense limited the Bills to 21 yards rushing and forced four turnovers. 
Broncos 34, .Lions 0 
John Elway ran for two touchdowns and passed 35 yards to Vance Johnson for an­other, leading Denver over Detroit. 
The Broncos scored on their first three possessions for a 17-0 first-quarter advantage and went on to post their first shutout since 1984 by allowing the Lions to cross midfield only four times. 
Colts 19, Jets 14 
Albert Bentley rushed 29 times for 145 yards and Jack Trudeau threw -a 44-yard flea­flicker touchdown pass to Matt Bouza as Indianapolis defeated error-prone New York in Eric Dickerson's-debut for the Colts. 
Saints 38, Falcons 0 
Bobby Hebert completed his first six passes in two first­quarter scoring drives as New Orleans took control early and blanked Atlanta, only the sixth shutout in the history of the Saints, now in their 21st season. 

Chargers 27, Browns 24 
Free safety Vencie Glenn in­tercepted Cleveland quarter­back Bernie Kosar's first pass attempt in overtime, setting up Vince Abbott's 33-yard field goal that gave San Diego its sixth consecutive victory. 
Patriots 26, Raiders 23 
Tony Franklin's fourth field goal, a 29-yarder with one second left, gave New England the victory and spoiled Bo Jack­son's NFL debut. 
The Raiders rallied from a 23-6 deficit with 17 points in the final 12 minutes. Chris Bahr's third field goal, a 39-yarder, tied the score with 46 seconds remainine. 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -With NFL rushing champ Eric Dickerson making his debut in an Indianapolis uniform Sun­day, the Colts weren't surprised at getting a 145-yard rushing day from his tailback spot. 
Thefactthatincumbentrun­ning. back Albert Bentley produced it hardly disturbed them or Dickerson. _ 
Acquired on Saturday from the Los Angeles Rams in ex­change for eight players, Dick­erson rushed 10 times for 38 yards and caught one pass for 28 more in a 19-14 Colt victory. 
"I was a little nervous but it went pretty good," Dickerson said. "I was surprised I got to play as much as I did. I felt like a rookie out there. I've got to learn a new system." 
beat ·Chiefs, 31-28 
With five seconds left, Franklin's 34-yard field goal at­tempt failed, but the Raiders were penalized for being of­fsides. Franklin connected on his second attempt. 
Dolphins 35, Steelers 24 
Dan Marino weathered a shaky start in the rain and passed for four touchdowns and 332 yards, leading Miami over Pittsburgh. 
The NFL's all-time, top­rated quarterback completed 25 of 31 attempts, including scoring passes of 41 and 33 yards to Mark Clayton and 50 yards to Mark Duper that helped the Dolphins overcome a 21-7 halftime deficit. 
Part of Dickerson's problem is a basic question of odd and even numbers in the signal count. 
"In LA, even numbers meant you went to the left," he said. "Here, even numbers go to the right. I have to reverse them in my mind. 
"I didn't know the plays and I didn't want to mess up. I knew maybe two pass plays, maybe four running plays. I didn't want to be going the wrong way and bust a play." 
Dickerson entered the game on Indianapolis' second offen­sive series. He ran for five yards off the right side and then two yards over the left side on the next play. 
Twice in the second quarter, Dickerson produced long gainers. He turned a pass in the flat from Jack Trudeau into a 28-yard gain. 
Buccaneers 23, Packers 17 
Steve DeBerg drove Tampa Bay 84 yards for a touchdown to open the second half and threw a scoring pass to Gerald Carter a minute later as the Buccaneers held on to beat Green Bay. 
Seahawks 28, Vikings 17 
Dave Krieg passed for three touchdowns, including a key 27­yarder to Steve Largent early in the second half, and backup Jeff Kemp added a 28-yard scoring toss with 1:32 left as Seattle beat Minnesota. 


All for as low as $11.98 and $12.98 on CD $5.98 and $6.98 on LP and Tape 
Extended Hours: 
12-8 Monday to Friday 
New Location: Basement of LaFortune 
-------~----------­
Monday, November 2, 1987 
The Observer 

Volleyball regains confidence in victory over 111.-Chicago 
By THERESA KELLY the Irish with a net game that 
Sports Writer was too much for the UI-C blockers. Backcourt specialist Amy White served for eight consecutive points, and the Irish never looked back, taking the game 15-6. In game two, the Flames. put up a tough defensive battle, but Mary Kay Waller and Maureen Shea kept the Irish in the lead with their blocking game. "This team doesn't have the power that Purdue has," Lam­bert said. "Our blocking has improved, but it didn't mean a whole lot against this team (VI­C)." The Flames avoided an Irish sweep by taking the third game, 8-15, behind tough serves and improved net play. The Irish took an early lead, but the Flames put together some tough defense and im­proved communicatiOn. 
ers. Notre Dame rolled up 12 points before UI-C got on the board, and a Morin serve put the game and the match away, 
Lambert was pleased with the defensive play of the team as well as the confidence level. 
"The team played with con­fidence, and that was the dif­ference," he said. "We finally got some defense in the back, that is important. Colleen Wag­ner played good defense for us. I was really pleased with that." 
Morin had 38 assists in her starting role for the Irish. 
"What I needed was confi­dence," Morin said. "I knew I was going to go out and do the job, so I got some confidence. 
"We have to have the team­work," she continued. "We weren't communicating for a while, but it's back and we're putting it together." 


The Observer I David Fischer Maureen Shea and the Irish volleyball team defeated Illinois-Chicago In four sets. Theresa Kelly has the game story at left. 


join us for "MEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatball Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 

Offer valid only on Monday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 
fighting than in playing hock­ey. The Irish responded by scoring twice on power play sit­uations and getting two goals to take a 5-4 lead. Windsor ap­peared to commit several other penalties during the game which were not called. 
"I'd have hated to be a ref­eree," Schafer said. "I hate playing Canadian univerisity teams or teams like this. There were a couple of high sticks in the head. For the most part, we practiced pretty good self­restraint." 
Senior center and captain Mike McNeill led the Notre Dame rally with two goals in the period. He eventually got the hat trick in the third period. 
In the third period, however, instead of holding the lead, the Irish let Windsor blow the game open. The Lancers ex­ploded for five goals in the per­iod to win convincingly, 9-6, and leave Schafer perplexed about the defensive breakdowns. 
"There were lots of errant passes and breakaways," Schafer said. "It wasn't so much a team breakdown as an individuals breaking down.'' 
Notre Dame next travels to Kent State this weekend for a couple of ACHA matchups on Friday and Saturday. 
NVA sets deadlines 
Special to The Observer 
Non-varsity athletics has an­nounced the following dead­lines: 
November 4: 
•Club Basketball. Clubs 
, must be registered with Stu­dent Activities and players must be members of club for which they play. 
•Singles 
table tennis tourn­ament. Tournament is open to students, staff and faculty. Entrants must call NVA Mon­day following the deadline for first match. 

•Squash 
tournament. Open to students and faculty. Elimi­nation tournament with best­of-five games played each round. 

•Interhall 
men's and wo­men's basketball, hockey and grad basketball. 


NVA has also announced stu­dent hours for the Joyce weight room. The hours are: 11 a.m. '·Q 1 p.m. and 6:30-10:30 p.m. 
1 
1nday through Friday and 1-6 
p.t Sunday. 


a e 14 
Defensively, the Irish made an adjustment at halftime to plug the middle of the line, and the Navy wishbone was con­

Rout 
continued from page 16 
siderably less effective than it 

was in the first half, when Navy junior tailback Mark Green. controlled the ball (but not the Johnson scored the third of his scoreboard) for nearly 19 four touchdowns in the game minutes and gained 117 yards on a one-yard plunge later in on the ground. The Middies the second quarter. netted only 13 yards rushing in 
The last Notre Dame player the second half, partly because to score four touchdowns in a they went to the air with more game was Allen Pinkett, who frequency. did it against Penn State in "They were just running the 1984. ball up the middle," said Notre 
Green carried the ball nine Dame inside linebacker Ned times for 102 yards, marking Bolcar, who made nine tackles. the second time under Holtz "In the second half Coach that a Notre Dame runner has (Foge) Fazio adjusted the picked up 100 yards in a game. defense by having our linemen Green had 119 in last year's 38-pinch to the middle -which 37 triumph over USC. stopped them completely." 
"The downfield blocking was Free safety Brandy Wells led great," Green said. Notre the Irish with 10 tackles and Dame picked up 406 rushing tackle Ted Fitzgerald added yards on 65 carries by just nine. about everyone on the roster. The ninth-ranked Irish face 
"Once you get past the line Boston College and Alabama at of scrimmage," Green contin­home over the next two Satur­
Brooks 
ued, "that's all you need is a days, and then take to the road 
continued from page 16
good downfield block. Timmy where they will meet Penn (Brown) sprung me loose a State and third-ranked Miami, couple of times." Fla. 
on 12 carries, while WattersIrish quarterbacks passed "We're fighting for the na­managed 47 yards on 11 rushes.
for 224 yards against the tional championship," Brown As the Irish ran the clock out second-ranked passing defense said confidently. "And we think to finish the rout, unfamiliarin the nation. Notre Dame we can get it." 
names such as Line Coleman,averaged more than eight Saturday's Game Joe Jarosz, and Bob Satterfieldyards on every offensive play. Navy 0 6 0 7 13 stepped onto the field. JaroszNavy averaged 3.5, and scored Notre Dame 14 21 14 .7 56 
Scoring and Satterfield, both juniors,on two second-quarter field NO • Johnson 6-yd. run (Gradel kick) 
were seeing their first action in 
NO -Johnson 9-yd. run (Gradel kick) 

goals by Theodore Fundoukos 
NO -Green 21-yd. run (Gradel kick) an Irish uniform. and a four-yard run by Deric NAVY -Fundoukoa 48-yd. FG 
Coleman, a freshman from
NO -Johnson 1-yd. run (Gradel kick) 

Sims with 37 seconds left in the NAVY-Fundoukos 31-yd. FG Dallas, is a different story. A 
contest. NO -Brown 51-yd. pass from Graham (Gradel 
USA Today honorable mention 
kick)Holtz employed the second NO -Johnson 2-yd. run (Gradel kick) All-America last year, Cole­team with slightly less than 13 NO -Watters 6-yd. run (Ho kick) 
man is a third cousin of former
NO -Brooks 4-yd. run (Nidell kick) 

minutes left in the third quarter NAVY -Sims 4-yd. run (Fundoukos kick) 
Heisman Trophy winner Billy
Navy NO

(following Johnson's fourth Firat downs 16 32 Sims and Dallas Cowboy Ever­score), and used 80 players in Rushing attempts 49 65 son Walls. Some guy that lives 
Net Yards Rushing 130 406

the game, keeping the radio 
Net Yards Passing 103 224 across the street from him
and television contingent in the Passes comp-attempted 7-18 9-13 named Tim Brown talked him 
Had intercepted 1 1

press box on its toes. 
Total Net Yards 233 630 into attending Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's two freshman Fumbles-lost 1 0 
Penalties-yards 2-20 7-76 It was not just the backs whorunning backs then got in the Punts-average 7-38.4 3-33.3 
were responsible for Notre 
Individual Leaders RUSHING -Navy: Brown 13-52; Brlzzard 18-31; Dame's running success. For
endzone to round out the Irish 
scoring. Ricky Watters (11 Bradley4-17; Sims 4-13; Notre Dame: Green 9-102; 
the third straight week, the ex­
Brooks 12-82; Watters 11-47; Brown 2-35; Jarosz

carries, 47 yards) went in from 
7-34; Alee 2-25; Johnson 6-25; perience of the line helped the six yards out in the third quar­PASSING -Navy: Grizzard 5-13-1, 70; Bowman 
young backs gain over 350
2-4-0, 33; Notre Dame: Rice 3-6-0, 104; Graham

ter and Tony Brooks (12 
5-6-1, 93; Belles 1-1-0, 27; yards.carries, 82 yards) scored a RECEIVING-Navy: Hughes 4-64; Bradley 1-17; Voss 1-17; Notre Dame: Brown 3-105; Robb 2-21; 
With fullback Pernell Taylor 
four-yard touchdown in the Ward 1-34; Brooks 1-27; Heck 1-26; Green 1-11; 
fourth. Attendance -59,075 out Saturday for personal 
LIP SYNC CONTEST 
North vs South Quad Saturday, November 7 Stepan Center 9:00pm 

. PRIZES ($$$)
I mterested acts should contact Maura at 239-7757 or 283-2745 by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5. Sponsored by SUB. 
Eye Exams
ProfessionalVISion 

Large Selection of Frames 
. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 
20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 

1635 N. Ironwood  1341 Portage  
277-1161  234-2400  
South of U.S. 23  Martins Shopping Center  

Monday, November 2, 1987 
The Observer I Jim Carroll 

Tim Brown looks downfleld while giving Navy defensive back Paul Day a stiff arm In Notre Dame's 56-13 win Saturday. 
reasons, and offensive tackle Tom Rehder out with an ankle injury, the Irish would have ap­peared hard-pressed to match their running performances of the last two weeks. Instead, Pete Rokich made his first start at tackle, the rest of the backs made up for Taylor's ab­sence, and Notre Dame gained 406 yards on the ground. 
''They are a great group ol guys," said senior tackle and Irish co-captain Byron Spruell, one of the four fifth-seniors on the line. "When we first came in here, we were expected to win. Now we seem to be fulfill­ing those expectations. We seem to dominate some people now." 
For the third consecutive game, the offensiv~ line did iust that. 
Rahal wins CART honor 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Bobby Rahal, the CART-PPG indy-car driving champion for the second straight season, reaped a rich reward Sunday night at the an­nual awards banquet. 
Rahal, of Dublin, Ohio, was presented a check for $300,000, the winner's share from the $1.2 million point fund, as well as a new car, a watch and a diamond ring. 
Michael Andretti, who finished second in the point standings for the second con­secutive year, picked up a check for $200,000. 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT: 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts : 
L--------------~~~~~1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts I
I Reg· $8 family haircutters I 
t-----~-------------1
!$5 OFF ANY~~ ! 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

University Park Mall 277-3770 
Monday, November 2, 1987 The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
-. 

6:30p.m. -Lecture sponsored by Career and Placement Services on "How to Conduct an Effective Mail Campaign" by Mr. Paul Reynolds, Associate Director. 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 8 p.m. -Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series lecture on "American Catholicism and a New Religious History'·' by Jon Butler, Yale University. Sponsored by the Department of History. 122 Hayes-Healy. Dinner Menus Notre Dame Saint Mary's Three Cheese Croissant Hamsteak Hawaiian Honey Glazed Chicken Italian Style Lasagna Fried Catfish w/ Tartar Potato Pancakes w/ Ap­Sauce plesauce Wet Burrito Deli Bar  
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it.  
SObering Advice·.: can savealife \ ~­)~Think Before You Drink ~ Before You Drive ""'·:· ....­ 


ACROSS 1 Hide 5 Vessels 
10 Way 14 Sharif 15 Caper 18 Exchange 
medium 17 Arachnid 18 Shopping 
place 19 Assumed 
character 20 Make happy 22 Hanging 
ornaments 24 Socialist 
Eugene 28 Red and Black 27 Defeats 
decisively 31 Admonition to 
a child 35 Ornamental shrubs 
37 Drop a ayllable 38 "-Marla" © 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 11/02/87All Rights Reserved
39 Reason 
41 Goddess of 
healing 42 Affords 45 Dlas e.g. 48 Furnishes an 
Income 50 Soak 51 Parent 53 Cartoonist 
Thomas 54 Chewy 
candles 58 Steal 82 Jal ­83 Excuse 85 Strike 88 Hurt 87 Cowboy show 88 -'slrlsh Rose 69 Remnants 70 Dutch painter 71 Hawaiian 
goose 
DOWN 1 Brilliant display 2 -Ludwig 
3 Overdue 4 Foot lever 5 Ruth's game 6 Toronto's 
prov. 7 Over 8 Exhausts 9 Public tiffs 
10 Umbrella 11 Literary 
conflict 12 Joust 13 Garden tools 21 Vend 23 Social 
engagement 25 Graft part 27 Weighing 
machine 28 Refuge 29 Alter 30 Heroic 
narratives 32 Michelangelo 
work 33 Foolish one 34 -Haute 38 Heb. month 54 Cloak 40 Encomium 55 Author Paton 43 Regions 56 Foray 44 Moved In water 57 Flank 48 Burst forth 59 Czech river 47 Craftsman 60 Conceited 49 Daubs 61 Fencing sword 52 Distribute 64 Honey maker 

Comics 
Bloom County 
Beernuts 
•• , ANfJ c..oop CLtA/1 HUN­I.Jt.'l?[ ML THE NI?A ANI/
I'H Tilt NRAI

TIN& ANO fARC.U S/-WT/N&. 
W[/?[ /If!{£ TO CClVI/lN(£

Yf<;•••r'M TH£ ltRA./ )Ol) THiif OWNIN& .4 lf/611­f'OW£/f£/? I?IFL[ I'S NOTONt.Y FI/N, EVT ''IJ/10/.Hbtv~;· TW-'
~ 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
I Jf)ST f1(}f{'T 
KNOWM'I~tF 
ANYMOI?.t­
1 
Mark Williams 
Y£5.. JOIN NOW ANI) IH ­£/Vt; 12 llf?f110R-PIF!i'UN& 
BILU.TS FRU! JVST 

IV/?'" TV : • • • . I)U\tlt'·' ...~tR~ ~ C:i:=" 
6K£AT. NOW r ~~ 1 ' .::_; 
CNv ~'T'uP IINY ,, snw TIINKS o 0
/ 

rHAr WIINPF:f? o z.., 1NTOM1 BA.K­YARIJ•.. 
The big-lipped dogs of the equatorial rain forest. 
November kick-off 

Crimes of the Heart­Trip Shakespeare Wed. & Thurs. 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 Friday 10 pm Theodore's 
Crocodile Dundee­Lip Sync Contest -Saturday Friday & Saturday North vs South Quad Sponsored by SUB 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00 9 pm Stepan 
-------------------------------------------" 
------------------------~-~ ---------------­
Sports 
Monday, November 2, 1987

page 16 
Irish keep rolling, maul Midshipmen, 56-13 
No surprises in ND romp 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Everybody in Notre Dame Stadium, including 11 Navy defenders, knew what to expect on the last play of the first half. 
But as was the case all afternoon Sat­urday, knowing what was coming and stopping it from happening were en­tirely different tasks for the 1-7 Mid­shipmen. 
Irish quarterback Kent Graham dropped back and threw the ball deep into the corner for Reisman Trophy candidate Tim Brown with no time left in the second quarter. And even a prevent defense couldn't stop another Notre Dame touchdown in a 56-13 Irish rout of the Middies, the 24th consecu­tive Notre Dame win over Navy. 
"Any time I can get the ball within a 10-mile radius of Tim Brown," Graham said, "I think he's going to get it." 

The 51-yard completion gave the Irish a 35-6 halftime lead, and marked the fifth time in five first-half possessions that a nearly flawless Notre Dame of­fense pushed the ball into the endzone. "I don't do anything on that play but run," said Brown, who left the game on Notre Dame's first drive to have a torn fingernail on his left hand stitched. "They (Navy) had four guys deep, but By STEVE MEGARGEE Pinkett, in a 44-7 victory over Penn side, Cal., has the only two 100-yard they were all in the middle of the field. 
'Pony Express' stable keeps growing 
Sports Writer State in 1984. rushing games in Holtz' tenure. We had the pattern designed for the Of course, Pinkett had 34 carries in "I wasn't aware of how many yards corner." Mter eight players helped the Notre that game. Johnson scored his four I had till sometime in the third quarter Irish head coach Lou Holtz, whose Dame football team rush for over 350 touchdowns in only six carries, as the someone said I had 100 yards," Green squad has won six of its first seven yards against USC on Oct. 23, Irish Irish turned to him inside the 10-yard said. "I felt really good going into this games, was as amazed as anyone. coach Lou Holtz compared his multiple line. game. You could really tell by the first back system to the Pony Express. "It's just a situation that the ful­drive, and how we drove off the ball, "Everyone knew it was going to Tim­But until last Saturday, nobody lbacks are quick hitters, and you want we established the tempo right away, my," Holtz noted. "I can't tell you (how realized just how many horses Holtz to get three or four yards in there," which made a big difference." he did it). He's Timmy Brown." had in his stable. Johnson said. "Braxston's a good run­Green and Johnson helped the Irish Brown carried the ball twice for 35 In the 56-13, hour-long highlight film ner too, plus the line was blowing them score touchdowns the first five times yards, caught three passes for 105 by the Irish, a total of 13 players carried out. they had the ball, and with a 35-6 yards and a touchdown, and had a 50­the ball for 406 net yards, averaging "If you can't score from about the halftime edge, everybody including yard, leave-six-Middies-in-their-socks over six yards a carry. two-yard line, you shouldn't be a ful­Tim Brown's neighbor stepped into the punt return called back on an illegal The afternoon started with Mark lback. The team counts on you at that backfield in the second half. block. Green and Braxston Banks in the back­point, and you have to give them that First came freshman standouts Tony Starting quarterback Tony Rice skip­field. Mter Banks bruised his ribs early extra ounce of effort." Brooks and Ricky Watters. The two pered the first three touchdown drives, in the first quarter, Anthony Johnson Meanwhile, Green, carrying the ball classmates gave fans a sign of things which ended on six-and nine-yard runs replaced him at fullback. In just the only once in the second half, gained 102 to come as both scored touchdowns in by sophomore fullback Anthony
" 
first half, the South Bend Adams yards on nine carries, with one touch­the second half. Brooks gained 82 yards Johnson and a 21-yard scamper by graduate scored four touchdowns. The down. It was Green's second career 100­last Irish player to do that was Allen yard day, as the tailback from River-see BROOKS, page14 see ROUT, page 14 
Hockey team inconsistent in weekend split with Windsor 
By STEVE MEGARGEE That's precisely how the ter Brian Montgomery. Just Sports Writer Irish played. In Friday's game, three minutes later, sopho­Windsor dominated the first more wing Bruce Guay tied the Under new coach Ric period, but eight saves by score. With 1:25 remaining in Schafer, Notre Dame hockey goalie Lance Madson and a the game, Guay gave the Irish sported a new look last goal by sophomore wing Tim the lead with a power play goal. weekend. Kuehl with 1:37 left gave Notre The Irish did not get much 
The Irish skated in their new Dame a 1-0 lead. time to celebrate. After a hold­uniforms to the tune of an or­In the second period, the Lan­ing penalty on Lance Patten ganist instead of the traditional cers took control. Windsor was with 49 seconds left gave canned music, and were able to get off 13 shots and took Windsor a power play opportu­treated on Saturday to one of a 3-llead by the end of the per­nity, the Lancers cashed in the most unusual versions of iod. Senior Roy Russell led the with a goal by Ken Minello with the national anthem on record attack for Windsor, scoring the 32 seconds remaining. by Elvis Presley impersonator tying goal, and contributing as­"That (the penalty) was the Dennis Wise. sists on the next two scores. play to make," said Schafer. 
But as for the hockey, while "I was kind of disappointed "I can't fault that. It was a bad the Irish played a couple of ex­after the first 40 minutes," said play that resulted in us having citing games for the crowds of Schafer. "We were okay in the to make a penalty." over 1,500 each night, they also first 20 minutes, but rather Most of the overtime period looked very inconsistent in win­lackluster in the second. It was was played on Notre Dame's ning 5-4 in overtime and losing just a lackluster effort that end of the ice, but inspired play 9-6 against Windsor. can't be tolerated. We don't by Madson and the rest of the 
"I don't want to go through have an abundance of finesse, defense kept the Irish in the 
The Observer I Zoltan Ury 

a whole season like that, not we have to work hard." game. With 1:47 left in over­
when we're just horrible for Notre Dame started its com­time, senior Tom Mooney The Notre Dame hockey team split In a physical weekend series one period and great for the eback at 10: 21 of the third per­wHh Windsor. Steve Megargee has the details at right. next," said Schafer. iod with a goal from junior cen-see MADSON, page 13 

The Observer I Trey Raymond 
game story at left and Steve Megargee looks at the Irish ground game below. 



