Partly sunny 
Scattered showers should 
end by mid-morning today, 
partly sunny skies and highs 
in the 70s or 80s. Low tonight around 60. 
-inside
Irish Extra ... 



VOL. XXI, NO. 14 

J-Council discusses '87 role 
By ERIC BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
The Judicial Council held an 
organizational meeting for the 
1987-88 school year Thursday 
night. 
Judicial Coordinator Bren­
dan Judge explained that the 
role of the Judicial Council was 
to help students understand 
University rules and to run stu­
dent and class elections in the 
spring. 
The Council is composed of 
each hall's judicial board 
chairperson and an off-campus 
representative. 
The Judicial Council, through the Undergraduate Student Council, also provides legal counsel to students who are ac­cused of university offenses. The Council also represents the accused in proceedings. 
Judge stressed the impor­tance of hall Judicial Boards in hearing cases of students ac­cused of hall offenses by "a jury of their peers." 
Council members were asked to take papers which out­lined the judicial board pPoce­dure. 
Judge encouraged members to inform students charged with off-campus offenses to use the pre-trial diversion program offered by the St. Joseph's County Prosecutor's Office. 

The Council will also dis­tribute Student's Rights Manuals to all students, Judge said. The manual describes student rights pertaining to hall and university offenses, car rights, room rights, and dishonesty. 
Judge requested that each hall representative pick up the manuals from the Council's of­fice this week. 
Council representatives were also asked to sign up for five committees: publicity, Du Lac review, rector relations, stu­dent's rights, and judicial review board selection. 
see COUNCIL, page 5 


Friday, September 11, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

SUB was wrong, tickets re-sold 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI get back will be sold to students News Editor on a first-come-first-serve basis today starting at 1 p.m. 
The Student Union Board at the "Ticket Stub" in the commissioner who ran the Mic­basement of LaFortune Stu­higan ticket lottery reserved dent Center, Salmon said. tickets for friends who did not Students may buy only one work for the SUB, Board direc­ticket and a student ID is re­tor Janel Blount said Thursday. quired to make the purchase, 
Jim Hering, SUB services he added. commissioner, was trying Blount said she did not know Thursday night to get the tick­how many tickets Hering had ets back from the people he reserved or would be able to reserved them for, said Tim get back. Salmon, spokesman for the SUB's steering committee. Blount said she did not buy 
The tickets Hering gets back the two preferential tickets will be re-sold to students that were reserved for her. She today, Salmon said. said these tickets, as well as 
Hering said Wednesday that those won in the lottery and not he reserved tickets for friends bought by 4 p.m. Thursday, had and roommates who helped been sold to the public. him with SUB activities. At the meeting, Hering was 
given the option of getting the 

At a steering committee tickets back, Salmon said. Had meeting Thursday, Salmon he chosen not to get them back, said Hering was reprimanded he would have been fired. for his handling of the lottery. Winners in the lottery bought 
He did not specify the repri­their tickets at the ACC ticket mand. Repeated attempts to office Thursday. reach Hering were unsuccess­Because the tickets Hering 
ful Thursday night. reserved had already been By reserving tickets for bought, the SUB gave him roommates and others, Blount money to buy the tickets back said, Hering "overstepped his from the people he reserved bounds in preferential treat­them for, Salmon said. SUB The Observei!Wen Yi ment." will get this money back when "No doubt, poor judgement the tickets are re-sold today, he 
and his family today at the Grot­
was used," Salmon said."What added.
to. Students maintained a con­stant vigil throughout Thursday he did was wrong." night. Tickets that Hering is able to see TICKETS, page 3 
Pope receives full-hearted greeting u.s. 
Associated Press America as he portrayed him­those who are rising and falling was his second tour of the self as a supporter of human and stumbling on the journey United States. 
MIAMI -Pope John Paul II, freedom. of life; those who are seeking Security was intense in prepared for dissent, but Said the pontiff: " I come as and discovering, and those not Miami, and a 53-year-old con­claiming the support of a a friend, a friend of America yet finding, the deep meaning struction worker was arrested
"silent majority" of Catholics, and of all Americans: Cat­of 'life, liberty and the pursuit after he was found carrying alaunched his second U.S. tour holics, Orthodox, Protestants of happiness'." 
gun and knife at Tamiami

Thursday as "a friend of and Jews, people of every reli­Many in the exuberant wel­Park, where the pope will America and all Americans." gion, and all men and women coming crowd of 4,500 held up celebrate Mass on Friday.
President Reagan, who had of good will." yellow-and-white papal flags to Police said they did not believe come from Washington towel­"I come as a friend of the flap in a breeze which blew the the incident was related to the come the pontiff on a clear, 90-poor and the sick and dying; pontiff's white skullcap off his papal visit. degree afternoon, made a those who are struggling with head. The pope did not kiss the pointed reference to Central the problems of each day; ground on this visit, because it see POPE, page 7 

Police doing 'best job they can' to fight crime 
By ERIC BERGAMO officers who break up their Cottrell said that there have robbers, the police have in­will not be continued, Cottrell Senior Staff Reporter parties. been three "strongarm" rob­creased the number of added. The directed patrols"I know students don't beries involving 
Notre Dame "directed" patrols in the will continue in the area to 
South Bend police are doing realize those things that we neighborhood, he said. The of­"see what they come up"the best job they can" in are doing for them," he said. The ficers are assigned to patrol with." protecting off-campus stu­Although there have been a Northeast a specific area at a specific Being unaware of the sur­dents from crime, according number of robberies and as­Neighborhood time. roundings is a main reason 
to South Bend Police Captain saults this year, the situation Last weekend four officers, why students fall victim to 
Part 2 of a
Patrick Cottrell. is not as bad as other years, posing as students, were sent muggers, Cottrell noted. Stu­
three-part
"We're out there to protect Cottrell noted. The police are out as decoys in the neighbor­dents should be alert to the
series
them whether they know it or doing all they can to ap­hood. The detail had some things around them. not," Cottrell said. prehend the perpetrators. and Saint Mary's students. success, Cottrell noted, but Students should not walk "Any time we have some­Cottrell was unaware of any "nobody tried to rob them." alone or in pairs in high-crime Most students are not cog­one get robbed ...we want to progress being made on the Because the undercover areas during early morning nizant of the work the police do something about that as cases. detail takes officers away 
see CRIME, page 6

do and only look at them as quickly as possible," he said. To thwart would-be-from their re lar beats, it 
page 2 

In Brief 
Mister Rogers,host of one of the longest-running children's televsion shows, says he's departing his neighborhood for Mos­cow so he and a Soviet counterpart "can build a little bridge in behalf of children." Fred Rogers is scheduled to leave Sept. 13 for a 12-day visit in Russia to appear on "Good Night, Little Ones." "Children all over the world need to know they can be loved just as they are," Rogers said in Pittsburgh, where his daily program is entering its 20th season on the Public Broadcasting System. 
Ed McMahon must go on trial in a civil lawsuit alleging he was part of a multimillion­dollar-land fraud scheme when he acted as a spokesman for the developers. McMahon, a Los Angeles resident who is best known as Johnny Carson's sidekick on NBC-TV's "Tonight" show, had argued that investors in the project had signed agreements not to sue him. Among other charges, the lawsuit claims that the company and officials mis­represented the actual value of the property. 
Comic David Letterman has received Ball State University's Distinguished Alumnus Award. Letterman, an Indianapolis native, is a 1970 telecommunications graduate of the Muncie school. The award was pre­sented in New York after a recent taping of NBC's "Late Night with David Letterman." Letterman established a scholarship for Ball State telecommunications students and pro­vided funds to buy program equipment. 

Of Interest 
A. ~4-hour prayer vigil for Father E. Wilham Beauchamp and his family will be held in Lewis Hall's chapel from 11 p.m. Sun­day to 11 p.m. Monday. Sign-ups for 15-minute prayer intervals will take place the remainder of the week. All are welcome. -The Observer 
The Grotto prayer vigil for Father Beauchamp continues today. All are wel­come. -The Observer 
TheAnti-ApartheidNetworkcontinue~ its Friday 12: 15 vigils on the steps of the ad­ministration building. All interested in finding out more about South Africa and the apartheid system are welcome. -The Observer 
I.S.O. Welcome back picnic will be held at Holy Cross field tonight from 4: 30 -6:30 
p.m. Come and meet the world. Newcomers are invited to bring friends and join in the festivities. -The Observer 
The native American studen assoc::iation will hold an organizational meetmg Sunday at 4 p.m. in Flanner Food service. All NDSMC students are welcome. For more information call Vernon Chee at 1416. -The Observer 
G.T.E. Emerging Scholar Seminar features Dr. F.M.A. Salam, from Michigan State University, on Monday at 3 p.m. in 356 Fitzpatrick. The seminar is sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. -The Observer 
Friday, September 11 , 1987
The Observer 
.. 

What if townies turned tables on the students ? 
"Hey, toss me another &*1ng bottle of wine," someone yells. 
It's 3 a.m. and you're in your dormroom trying to fall asleep. But you can1t. 
Ever since those townies moved in next door to your room, sleeping has been nearly impossible. 
Ithappens almost every weekday night. The townies invite their off-campus friends to their dorm parties. At least 100 show up every night. They play lo_ud music-Big Band music, for God's sake. 
"Notre Dame is such a $£%&-hole," one townie says to another. "I can't wait to get out of here." 
You never·do get to sleep that night. 
The next morning, you get up and go out­side. There are dozens of wine and cham­pagne bottles scattered around. You smell a horrible stench -yup, they've thrown up and urinated outside your room again. 
You go to class, where other students are complaining about the townies, too. Like you, they were kept up all night by the parties. 
You take a quiz and get a "D" on it because you're so tired. You vow that this will never happen again. 
That night there's another party, with the accompanying loud music and drunken townies. "I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore," you say. You call Notre Dame Security. 
About a dozen Security officers show up and the townies scatter. Some are ticketed for dis­orderly conduct; others are handcuffed and taken away. All the townies complain that they're being mistreated by the officers. 
As the party is broken up, you lie in bed thinking about the townie problem. It's not that you hate all the townies. Some of them are kind of nice; they even come on campus and tutor some disadvantaged students. 
And you don't mind an occasional party. But when the parties get out of hand, you feel you have to call Security. You need your sleep. And you hate having to clean up after the parties. 
You think back to better times when you liked living in your dorm. It was quiet. And it still would be -if it weren't for the townies. 
But the townies are getting their just desserts. Fellow Notre Dame students are breaking into the townies' rooms. 
Some students have stolen VCRs and stereos from the townies. Others make it a habit of throwing objects through the the townies' windows. And two students even beat up and robbed a townie. 

"We just live off those guys," you remem­ber one student saying. 
Of course, you don't condone the students' actions. Still, you don't feel sorry for the townies. They can afford to lose a VCR or two. And in a way, they deserve to get a brick thrown through their window. 
The townies, after all, really don't do anyth­ing for the dorm. They just tear it up and make a lot of noise. Then they complain about the area crime or the party busts. 
You'd like to move out of the dorm. But you can't afford another place. Besides, you were here before the townies. It's them who should move out. Not you. 
The next night arrives, and another townie party begins. More noise. More obscenities. More drunks. 
You don't see an end to these parties. When one set of townies leaves, another takes its · place. You're miserable .... 
"Hey, get up," your roommate says. "It's almost time to go." 
You slowly wake up, realizing the whole thing was just a dream,. There are no townies next door; just students. 
"Where are we going?" you ask. "An off-campus party," your roommate replies. "It ought to be £$*ing great." 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a art of it. 
<:"~Goclfatha·s. Pizza(O)Find one. Its worth it 

Design Editor ................. Chris Donnelly Typesetters ...................... Shawn Sexton News Editor............. .. .. Cathy Stacy Copy Editor ........................ Liz Panzica Sports Copy Editor.... .. .. . Marty Strasen ...................................... Steve Megargee Typesetters...... ... Shawn Sexton Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Matt Guye Viewpoint Layout.................. Julie Ryan Accent Copy Editor ..... Trisha Chambers Accent Layout.. ................. Michelle Dall Typists ............................. Cathy Haynes 
......................................... Jenifer Conlon ............................................. Will Zamer ND Day Editor .................... Greg Lucas SMC Day Editor .............. Suzane Perine Ad Design................... Melissa Wochner .......................................... Megan Keane ........................................ Jennifer Spong .............................................. Patti Kase Photographer ............................. Wen Yi Irish Extra Editor........ Dennis Corrigan Irish Extra Design ............. Matt Breslin Layout Staff....................... Alison Cocks ....................................... Stewart Garcia 
Tile ot.ner (USPS S99 2-<4000) is published Monday through Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile Olllener is published by the students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed fill' $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile ot.ner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile ot.ner is a member of Tile Allodated Pna. All reproduction rights arc raervcd. 
('I,I 1• t \ 1J .~ t \ I. 
I
1 Medium original single I ingredient pizza 
I 
$5.99 
I 1
1 
GodfaltM:rs I 

1 plus tax & deliv."~~~ I
I Offer expires oooo7 It's worth it. I 
~--------------------­
Godfather~ We Deliver to a Lirnited Area 
~Pizza. 52920 US 31 North ~ 277-5880 South Bend, IN 


------~ -~­
Shultz believes $270 million will prevent 'communist victory' 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 
12:00 noon *WVFI D.J. outside, Fieldhouse Mall 
*A Pool full of ice cream to make your own sundae!, Fieldhouse Mall *DENNY LEE, Illusionist, teaser, Main Lobby 
1:00 p.m. *Scavenger Hunt throughout LaFortune 
Prizes donated by Lafortune businesses: plants, albums, food certificates, $50 savings bond, gift certificates, and more 
LOOK FOR CLUE #1 IN MONDAY'S OBSERVER OR IN LA FORTUNE MAIN LOBBY 
*DENNY LEE, Illusionist, Magic Workshop, Main Lobby 1:00-4:00 p.m. * THEODORE'S OPEN 1:00-? *NEW TV Lounge Open-Lower Level 
4:00-6:00 p.m. * WVFI D.J. -Fieldhouse Mall 
5:00 p.m. * DENNY LEE, ILLUSIONIST, MAIN PERFORMANCE 
7:00 P.M. *Alpha Omega Players present 
9:30 p.m.-1 :00 a.m. * Theodore's Open, SPONSORED BY OFFICE Campus D.J. ~R 
OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES AND STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State George Shultz, arguing that the alternative is a "com­munist victory" in Nicaragua, said Thursday the administra­tion will ask Congress for $270 million in aid to the Contra rebels for an 18-month period. 
Testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Shultz said additional aid to the Contras is the best insurance that Nicaragua will comply with terms of the Central American peace agreement it signed last month in Guatemala. 
The announcement drew im­mediate criticism from a num­ber of congressional Democrats and is certain to produce another round of 
"I compared Paralegal proJP"amsand chose Roosevelt' 

0 ........ ABA-8ppf'Oftd proaram In Wlnols 
• 
ElkctiYr m.ploymmr asshWI""-ovn 500 employers ~ hired """""""II graduarc:s 

• 
Cbolcle oflime andiOCIIllon-Day and nenJna d-. • Loop • Ari.Jnaron HeJabiB • OUbrook 

• 
DM:nlftcd I~I curriculum-spc:d2llze In Ullptlon; Corporations; F.awc:s, Trusrs and Wills; Rnl Eslalt; Employee Bcndirs or Gmerall5l 

• 
lllJNOIS STATE GUARANI'EED STUDENT LOANS 


0 RECRUITER ON CAMPUS ON NOVEMBER 3 
• Coni3CI )Uut plactmenl office for <klails 
U..Lanbcc For J'OW' eopy of tile Lawyer'• Aalillalll Calalope ud an Lqal Auiaranr illvitalio• to tile aed illformalioa aeniclll ill ,.,ur ...,., San11 Fe Sourhem Pacific 
writeorcall: 
3U-341-3882 ---------------------------------------------------1ii
n."-"-....,.._ In coopntion with The Natioo.l c.cnter f..-l'lnlqpl T..UU... 
~~ ~-----------------­
4:11 s. Mi<...... Aoe. ClolupU.­
~-------------­
Ci<Y -----Stare __Zip __ 
~~ lbuel'bone Butineu Phone 
heated debate on Capitol Hill over the administration's Central America policy. 
Shultz said, "If the Guatemalan agreement is to be implemented in a way that secures a negotiated cease­fire, a democratic opening in Nicaragua, and accommoda­tion of basic national security interests... the United States must continue to furnish sup­port to the freedom fighters." 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters the aid request will "keep pressure on the Sandi­nistas as we go through the peace process and let them 
know the president is serious 
in his commitment not to desert the resistance." The Guatemala agreement, among other steps, calls on the 

Sandinista government to ar­range a cease fire and imple­ment democratic reform measures by Nov. 7, about five weeks after the current Contra aid allotment expires. It also calls on the United States to cease funding the Contras. 
House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, who has played an in­creasingly influential role in the Central America issue, said it was inappropriate for the ad­ministration to make a request for more Contra money while the peace process was under way.


TI.Ckets 
continued from page 1 
"We're righting a wrong by doing this," Salfh.on said. "(Hering) is basically making public restitution for what he's done. 
"People say it's not enough punishment," he said. "Believe me, I'm sure he's going through an emotional hell right now." ,. 
Salmon said ticket distribu­tion in the future will be han­dled differently. 
"There won't be a student handling that because it's a tough position to be in, with a lot of peer pressure," he said. 
"(Hering) won't be handling the lottery for the next game. I can guarantee that." 
In a letter to the editor in today's Observer, the SUB said it was wrong to reserve tickets 

OPEN 
Newton rediscovered 
Kathy Hinchey takes advantage of a beautiful day by hitting the books on North Quad. Students by the dozens are deserting the 
"We now recognize that an error in judgement occurred when preferential treatment was received by certain indi­viduals," the letter states. "We were wrong." 
SUB  Board  members  
received tickets,  Blount said  
Wednesday,  in  accordance  

with an eight-year-old SUB policy which allows Board members ''preferential tickets 
The Observer:.Wen Yi library and their rooms to do their studying outside and en­joy the weather while It lasts. 
concerts." 
Although the· policy states SUB members may get prefer­ential tickets to concerts, Blount said, members get foot­ball tickets because "it's not a policy that's followed · ver­batim." 
"It's something that has been done for years." SUB members must pay the normal price for their prefer­


LA FORTUNE 
HOUSE 

page 4 The Observer Friday, September 11, 1987 



Teenage murderer seeks 
The FondtJe Parlor


Pope's help for clemency 
Associated Press trouble understanding the he opposed the death penalty 
background of her crime." for juveniles but had little 
INDIANAPOLIS Paula Touchette wrote John Paul in choice under present state law. Cooper, the Indiana teen-ager February asking the pontiff to Crawford called the crime whose case Pope John Paul said intercede on Cooper's behalf. particularly "terrible and Thursday he may discuss with He received a telephone inter­senseless," and said Cooper, President Reagan, has gained view on Vatican Radio. then 15, led three teen-age girl wide support for clemency in In August, Cooper lost a bid friends in a scheme to rob the Italy because of the influence for a new sentencing hearing, elderly woman. of the Roman Catholic Church, but an appeal in her death sen­Pelke allowed Cooper and according to her attorney. tence continues. two other teen-agers into her 
John Paul told reporters en She had pleaded with Super­home May 14, 1985, after they route to Miami that the case ior Court Judge Ricahrd Con­feigned an interest in Bible les­might be brought up, but he did roy for fairness in her case. sons, investigators said. The not elaborate. Her attorney asked Conroy to fourth girl remained outside as 
The case of Cooper, who was set aside the death sentence a lookout. sentenced to death for killing and hold a new sentencing Cooper then assaulted Pelke an elderly Gary Bible teacher, hearing. with a butcher knife, stabbing has received considerable at­During a hearing, she told the her 33 times, then ransacking tention in Italy, where the judge, "I just want to ask you the house. The teen-agers fled death penalty does not exist, to please keep an open mind. with only $10 and the victim's 
Tue Special: All you con eat Sirloin Dinner

and petition drives are under If you tell me you'll be fair, 1977 automobile. 
Fondue Style

way there. that's good enough for me." Cooper, who turned 18 on Conroy replied, "I'll be fair." ' Crawfor'3 originally sought 
Wed Special: All you con eat Seafood Dinner 

Aug. 25, was sentenced to death "That's good enough for the death penalty against all 
Fondue Style

at age 16 for the May 1985 stab­me," she said. four of the teen-agers. He 
Thr Special: All you con eat Chicken Dinner 

bing death of Ruth Pelke, a 77-Whensheturned18,about100 dropped the request, without year-old Bible instructor in demonstrators stood in front of comment, against the youngest 
Fondue StyleGary. Cooper was 15 at the time the U.S. Embassy to celebrate defendant, who was 14 when the of the slaying. her birthday and to demand crime occurred, and against 
Try our Chef's featured entrees Friday and

In March, Cooper's attorney, clemency for her. the girl who served as lookout. William Touchette of Crown "She is a symbol of those in He unsuccessfully pressed for 
Saturday evenings 

Point, went to Rome seeking the world who are fighting the the death sentence against the support for Cooper and other death penalty," said Paolo oldest girl, who held the knife juveniles on death row in the Pietrosanti, an organizer of the in the dying woman's side while United States. demonstration and a member Cooper searched for valuables. 


"There is widespread sup­of the Radical Party, which has The three received prison 
This coupon entitles you to four dollars off the total price 

port for Paula's case also in protested the sentence." terms ranging from 25 to 60 
of your dinner ticket when ordering two dinners. 

other European countries," years for their roles in the 
This coupon cannot be used with any other promotiOnal otter and 

Touchette said at a news con­Lake County Prosecutor Jack crime. 
only one coupon per table .. thank you.

ference at the time. "But it is Crawford has vigorously nowhere like in Italy, where the defended his decision to seek 

~~The Fondue Parlor~
organization has come from the death sentence for Cooper. 
WANTED 
the very grassroots." She pleaded guilty to the 
USC vs. ND
Touchette said, "The Catho­stabbing death of Pelke, and 

100 Center Old Brewery Building 255-1526
FOOTBALL TICKETS
lic Church stresses the impor­Crawford refused to drop his 
Mishawaka Tue-Thr 5-9

tance of the family and the death penalty request when 
213-422-2812 
upbringing of children. Italians Cooper agreed to enter the 
Reservations Su gested Fri & Sat 5-1 0

EARLY AM OR EVENINGS
realize how important parents plea, 


are. When confronted with such She was sentenced to death parents as Paula's they have by Judge Kimbrough, who said 
Congratulations on your 21st 
"Birthday KEVINI 
Best wishes in 
•

your sentor year 
and love, Mom, Dad, Kathleen, Tom, and Lisa 
YOU CAN HAVE IT ALL FOR HALF PRICEI 
The Chicago Tribune will keep you informed on sports. current events. national employment trends. social issues. the economy and global politics with award­winning. in-depth coverage of the news-the kind of coverage you can't find on T.V. or radio. 
The Chicago Tribune gets high marks for: A+ Tempo: America's most-read feature section. A+ Award-winning columnists: Mike Royko, 
Bob Greene, Ann Landers. Dear Abby and Bernie Lincicome. , A+ Business: Timely international, domestic and local financial news. 

INDOOR SOCCER COLLEGE MENS LEAGUE ORGANIZATION MEETING TUES 915 7PM Teams and-Or Individuals Encouraged to Attend TURNERS SOCCER ARENA ON IRONWOOD JUST SOUTH OF THE TOLL ROAD. 277-0851 PLAY BEGIN_S_ MONDAY 9'21  A+ Sports: the best in the Midwest for pro. college and prep coverage. A+ Travel: the season's coolest vacations in the world's hottest spots. A+ Sunday: SUNDAY Magazine. TempoWoman. The Arts. Business. Jobs. Tribune Books, N Week. A+ The Chicago Tribune is transMitted via satellite daily to a printing site near you to give you the latest news and sports. ((hirago Oribunc Mail to: Chicago Tribune • 435 N. Michigan Ave. • Room 400 FC • Chicago, IL 60611 0 YES! Begin delivery of the Chicago Tribune. y, price 1 semester 2 semester5 AmountOrder /week 1 weeks 32 w ks paid D Daily/Sunday $1.68 $26.88 $53.76 D Dally Only $1.05 $16.80 $33.60Special D Sunday Only s .63 $10.08 $20.16 University D 8111 me D Payment enclosed (check or money order) D VIsa D MasterCak Acct.' Expiration Date __Offert Signature•-----------------­Y2 Price Name,________________Ciass(F.S.J.S)Chicago Tribune Address/Dorm·-----------~1./Room,___Delivery Clfyr_______,____State._____.iP•---­Call: ~·------------------­City News Co. ~~~~-·---------------­232-3205 0~·--------~~·----_LiP•---­Phone Offer eKpiresOctober 15. 1987.  

..-----------------------------------------~----------------------­

Persian Gulf wars prompt Perez U.N. peace mission 
Associated Press by the U.N. security Council. The Iraqis have said they will 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Iraqi accept the truce if the Iranians warplanes bombed industrial do, but Iran has not given a centers and an Iranian speed­definitive answer. boat rocketed a supertanker Salvage executives based in Thursday, the day before the the gulf said Iranian com­
U.N. secretary-general begins mandos in one, or perhaps two, a peace mission to both nations. speedboats attacked the 
Javier Perez de Cuellar left Cypriot-flag supertanker New York on Thursday and, Haven with rocket-propelled after an overnight stop in grenades, causing some Paris, is due in Tehran on damage but no casualties. Friday. He said he remained A six-week lull in the "tanker hopeful that his week-long mis­war" on commercial shipping sion will bring a truce in the in the Persian Gulf followed the 7-year-old Persian Gulf war. Security Council action, but at­
On Wednesday, Perez de tacks resumed two weeks ago. Cuellar said he hoped for an "early comprehensive settle­Attacks by Iranian speed­ment which will satisfy the boats had been expected since demands of justice and honor." Iraq ended a three-day recess 
Iraq said its air raids would in the war on shipping with at­
continue until Iran complies tacks Tuesday night near with the July 20 cease-fire Iran's Kharg Island oil export resolution passed unanimously terminal in the northern gulf. 

FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND PACKETS 
are now available in the Student Activitie_s Office for all organizations that were awarded stands. 
(List of organizations with concession stands is posted in the Main Lounge in LaFortune.) 
DEADLINE FOR PICKING UP PACKETS IS 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 
(If you do not pick up your packet you forfeit your stand and it will b~ awarded to an alternate.) 


ILLUSIONS 
He escapes from locked Trunks. 
He floats Ladies on Points of Swords. 
He manipuiates Raw Eggs without breaking. (most of the time) He swallows Double-Edged Rawrs. He thrusts sabres through Friends. He does Card Tricks While He Raps. He even does his own taxes. 
But most of all.... He makes you 
Laugh and have aGreatTime. 
Monday, September 14 
La Fortune Main Lobby 
12:00 p.m. Teaser 
1:00 p.m. Magic Workshop 
5:00 p.m. Main Performance 

Student Union Board 



Papal visit APPhoto Pope John Paul II waves to a crowd. The pope began his 10-day American tour Thursday In Miami. This Is the pope's second visit to the United States. Homosexuality, divorce, birth 
control and the role of women In the chruch are among the themes expected to be raised during his visit. 
Fewer Americans lighting up 
Associated Press Control, questioned more than said Dr. Ron Davis, directpr of 13,000 adult Americans late last the CDC's U.S. office on 
ATLANTA -The cigarette year. It found that 26.5 percent Smoking and Health. "We con­smoking rate in the United of them smoked, 29.5 percent sider our data to be very reli­States has reached the lowest of the men and 23.8 percent of able." level ever reported, with less the women. The nation's smoking rate than 27 percent of adult Those numbers were down has fallen dramatically since Americans lighting up in 1986, from a National Health Intf!t­1964, the year of the U.S. sur­federal health researchers said view Survey of 1985, which geon general's landmark warn­Thursday. found that 30.4 percent of its ing about smoking and cancer, 
That's down nearly 4 survey group smoked, 33.2 per­heart disease and other health percentage points from a 1985 cent of the men and 27.9 per­problems. At that time, 40 per­survey and down nearly 14 cent of the women. t cent of the adult population points in two decades. Some of the difference may smoked, 53 percent of men and 
The first Adult Use of be due to differences between 32 percent of woQlen. Tobacco Survey, taken by the the two studies, but "our sur­The CDC noted that while National Centers for Disease vey is (also) a large survey," "much progress has been 

achieved," an estimated 47 million American adults are still smokers. 
The CDC survey found that an estimated 24.6 percent of the 
U.S. adult population, those 17 and over, are former smokers, 

LUNCHEON 
including 30.4 percent of men

SPECIAL' 
l"hoi<o of 10 Combination 
and 19.3 percent of women. Plollon. lnclud.. IGUp. Now, one of the nation's 1990 
til~ roll. friod rico II hoi 
IU. S.rvod IZ:JOpm heaith goals, a national 
4pm. Mon. -Fri. 
Onl~ 84.95 smoking rate of less than 25 St•rn•d rront percent,"has almost been 
II:Jihtm -.~pm 
met," the Atlanta-based CDC said. The surgeon general's an­

-OPEN7DAYS­
130 lliXIE HIGHWAY SOUTH nounced goal of "a smoke-free 
BUSINESS U.S. 3lln ROSELAIIiD 
society" by '2000 may also be­

I SOUTH BENDl al KANilAI.L"S INN 
12)9) 272·7376 come a reality, Davis said. 

Council 
continued from page 1


Get Involved With 
A session on the role of the hall judicial boards was also

usc 
held during the meeting. Judge explained that a stu­

Undergraduate Schools Committee dent accused of an in-hall of­
fense can take the matter to either the rector or the judicial Be a representative of the board. The judicial board hears both sides of the case and
Admissions Office to your 
decides on the matter. high school over October Many rectors do not use their hall's judicial boards, Judgeor Christmas break. noted. The judicial board chair­man should talk with the rector 
Call Pat {3653) or Brian (1802) 
to discuss the role of the board. for more information. Du Lac, Judge said, is "vague" in what sort of offen­
Applications available in the Admissions 
ses should be brought up before Office (113 Admin. Bldg.). Deadline is a judicial board. The judicial board can hear
Sept. 11. 
alcohol-related hall offenses, Judge added. 

-~------... 
Friday, September 11, 1987
page 6 The Observer 
--------~---~--~-----------~---­
-~-------~~~~------­

Top brass The Observet>Wen v; The brass section of the Band of the Fighting Irish practices near Washington Hall. The band was putting the finishing touches on their repertoire preparing for upcoming football games. The_band Is a famlalar fixture at the games and a favorite of Notre Dame fans everywhere. 

Crime 
continued from page 1 
hours, he added. Students will 
be safer if they walk in groups 
of three or more. 
Break-ins at off-campus 

homes usually occur during 
home football games and vaca­
tions when the criminal knows 
the students aren't home, Cot­
trell said. 
Before leaving the house un­

attended, students should lock 
their doors and secure all win­
dows, he cautioned. 
Students should write down 

the serial numbers of their 
valubles in case they are 
stolen, he said. If the items do 
not have ·serial numbers, it 
should be marked with the 
owner's social security num­
ber. This procedure helps iden­
tify who owns stolen property. 
Neighbors can be students' 

"best allies" in protecting their 
houses from intruders. Cottrell 
added. 
Such incidents have 

prompted off-campus students 
to begin to form a crime watch. 
Cottrell believes the crime 
RUNNING SCARED 
showing Fri.& Sat. Sept. 11 & 12 at 7, 9, and 11 
in Carroll Auditorium at St. Mary's 
Admission $1.50 
sponsored by St. Mary's Student Government 

watch is a "great idea" and said the police would help in any way to get the group started. 
The police not only have to protect the students living in the neighborhood, but also the permanent residents as well. 
But breaking up parties keeps the police from doing their job, Cottrell noted. 
• "Policemen can't be at two places at the same time," he said. 
If students were to calm down parties, Cottrell said, the , police would have more time to 
patrol and fight crime. 

Cottrell also disputed that of­ficers use unethical tactics during party and bar raids. 
When the -police carry out a raid, they have everyone file out and check the person's ID card, Cottrell explained. If the student is over 21, the police cannot arrest the person. But if the person is drunk or "act­ing goofy" the police will be compelled to arrest the stu­dent. 
Monday: What it's Zike to be the neighbor ofa student in the Northeast Neighborhood. 
Daily Delivery 
Roses on Special 18061 Slate AD.c:t 23 
Suzanne Kobek
Near Ironwood 

(219) 277-2870
South Bend. lndiar1a 46637 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
Notre Cinematheque 
This week at the Snite: Individual admission $2.00 
Friday, Sept, 11 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. 
MONA USA ( 1986) 
Directed by Neil Jordan, Great Britain With Bob . Hoskins and Michael Caine Modem film noir, with Hoskins as the chauffeul1 protector of a black call girt and Caine as a satanic crime lord. Contemporary , darkly romantic, with characterizations of unexpected depth 
and dignity. 

Monday, September 14 7:00p.m. Crime de M. Lange (1935) Directed by Jean Renoir, FrancE One of Renotr'a major films, 

I
showing that, by united action, tb8 common man could over· tvranny. 9:00 p.m.October (1i28) 
Directed by Sergei Einaensteln. USSR A classic-the Rus&ian Tuesday, September 15 
7:00 p.m. & 9:00 p.m. Young Mr. Lincoln (1939) Directed by John Ford the late great Henry Fonda plays the youthful honest Abe with a light, humorous touch, showing the great man's gift of using simple, homespun philosophy 



Security Beat 
Wednesday, September 9 
10: 20a.m. The theft of two portable radios was reported in the Comput­er!Math Building. Value of the radios is estimated at $140. 
12:30p.m. An R.A. in Morrissey Hall reported vandalism to a door and transom. 
2:30p.m. Security investigated a complaint by an administrator that someone attempted to impersonate him to gain access to a University facility. 
3:00p.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall reported that his wallet was stolen between lO:OOa.m. and 12:15p.m. from either the Rockne Memorial or his room in Morrissey. Loss is estimated at $42. 
5: lOp.m. A staff member reported that the rear vent window of his car was broken out sometime while it was parked in the B-1 Lot. Replace­ment will cost $100. 
5:10p.m. A resident of Fisher Hall reported that his car was broken into and his radio was stolen while it was parked in Green Field. The theft ocurred sometime between Tuesday at 8 p.m. and Wednesday at 4:45p.m. 
5:35p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall reported that the rear vent window of his car was broken out sometime between Sunday and Wednesday. Nothing was taken from the car. Re­placement of the window will cost $50. 
6:30p.m. A resident of Sorin re­ported that his truck was broken into sometime between Monday and Wednesday. His stereo, speakers, and radar detector were stolen. 
6:30p.m. Security was called to tow a vehicle off the band practice field near Green Field. Students, Faculty, and Staff are asked not to park on the band practice field. 
8: lOp.m. Security Officers and Fire Fighters responded to a fire alarm in Grace Hall. The false alarm was activated at a pull box on the lOth floor. 
9:50p.m. A resident of Fisher Hall reported the theft of two plants with their stands valued at $30. The theft happened between 6:00 and 9:30p.m. 
Thursday, September 10 
2:00p.m. A resident of Flanner Hall reported that his camera was stolen from the North Dining Hall on Saturday, August 29. The camera is valued at $250. 
2:45p.m. Security investigated a traffic accident in the Washington Hall parking lot. No injuries were reported. 
4:15p.m. A woman reported that her car was hit by a LaCrosse ba11 as she drove on Ivy Road near Courtney Lane. The ball, thrown by a student athlete, broke her car's side mirror. 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 

UNCLES' IRISH PUB 


LARGE SCREEN TV TO WATCH 

NDVSMICHIGAN 
Pitchers of beer only $2.00 "<06 4609 Grape Rd. 
C\0"' 
~s ~5~ ,JMS Plaza ~\\) 
Mishawaka 277-5680 
OL~ 


Wednesday, September 16 8:00pm Washington Hall Tickets on sale. at the Washington Hall box office M4 -91.6 12-6 pm $4.00 NDSMC student \'~ ~~0~ $8.00 public ~~ ~ ~ 
For information, ~~0'( ~~~~ ~~'( call239-7757 ~~ ~ 

Friday, September 11 , 1987 
The Observer page 7 
U.S. students trail English, 

Japanese in achievement 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -U.S. elemen­tary and high school students, especially girls, know less about science than their coun­terparts did in 1970 and trail both English and Japanese pupils in physics, chemistry and biology, according to an in­ternational study. 
English students topped even the Japanese in the first study in 17 years to compare how stu­dents in 24 nations perform in science. 
The first phase of the study by the International Associa­tion for the Evaluation of Edu­cational Achievement (lEA) took place in 1983. A second phase of testing was conducted 
ND '61 I 
0

1725 Ironwood liquors See Jim for

N IronwOOd
South lend 272-7144 in-store specials 
BCAC, SUB, Fisher Hall, & 
Student Government present: 






PIE~ES/ 

------"'"' • • 0 F A • • • • -----­


/DREAM~ 
+Saturday, September 12 
• 
9:00pm • Stepan Center 

•
Tickets: $3.00 Advance-available in Dining Halls & The Cellar or call BCAC 


at 239-6841 $4.00 at the door $5.00 non-students +AFTER-SET DA CE 11:OOpm-2:00am 
•t=::=:==:~~~:=:::=~:=:=::~===~===~=­
A little marching canputyou astepalieadof everyother college graduate. 
Get your career off to a fast start. Enroll in the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps now. And you could graduate with both 
a college degree and an officers commission in the U.S. Army. Army ROTC is the college elective that gives 
you the confidence, leadership skills and discipline essential to any successful career, civilian or military. 
Get the experience and responsibility other graduates will have to wait years for. Talk to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
INTERESTED??? Call Captain Domingo 239-6264 
in the United States in 1986 and 
involved more than 20,000 5th, 
9th and 12th graders in over 
1,000 schools. 
One example of the decline in science knowledge is that more than eight out of 10 U.S. 5th graders and nine out of 10 9th graders in 1970 correctly answered a multiple choice question on how long it takes to travel to the moon. But in 1986, only 47 percent of the 5th graders and 55 percent of the 9th graders chose the correct answer "a few days." 
According to a questionnaire completed by students taking part in the study, 1986 pupils were spending one to two hours less on homework than their 1970 counterparts. 
(f) 
0.....
a:::: 
B 
l) 
z
-
z 
~ 
f-­
~ 
UJ 
u
-
w.... 
w.... 
0 
~ 
UJ 
~ < ~ 

Attennnn-shen The Observei:'Wen Yl The Navy ROTC fall awards ceremony was held yesterday In the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Participants stepped out In full dress uniform for the occasion. 
Reagan said. "In Latin America and Asia, we are sup­


Pope 

porting the expansion of human continued from page 1 freedom, in particular, the lteagan came to Miami with powerful movement toward Mrs. Reagan to head the re-democracy." 
ceiving line. The president's aides had "In Europe and elsewhere, said privately that Reagan in­we continue to place our might tended to make an obvious ref­on the side of human dignity," erence to his support for the 
********w************************** 
2116"-3 item pizzas with FREE X-Cheese  $13.75  :  
Jf­ 2114"-3 item pizzas with FREE X-Cheese  $10.56  :  
*Hours:  Jf- 
Jf­ Mon-Thurs 11-11~'ri-Sat.11-1 Sun 3-10  Jf­ 
:  FREE LITER OF POP W/ 16" PIZZA  :  

··································~ 

Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, September 11, 1987 
Irish fan 
I grew up in the state of Michigan. It is a great state. I would not want to live in too many other places besides Mic­higan. The state really has a lot to offer including great weather and fantastic people. However, it does have one nag­ging fault. 
Brian Broderick 
sincerely yours 
You see, my sister, Colleen, graduated from the University of Mic­higan and many of my cousins and friends have either graduated or are currently attending the University in Ann Arbor. Despite my vehement protests and avid dislike for anything maize and blue, I have lived most of my life in the shadow of Michigan foot­ball. 
Things have not improved much since I have been at Notre Dame, a traditional Michigan rival. My sopho­more year the team traveled to Mic­higan, as did I, only to see us lose a 

reacts to 
close game 20-12. Then last year we beat Michigan in every phase of the game, except the final score 24-23. Needless to say football has not been my favorite subject when at home. Now is my last chance for revenge. 
Allow me to be straightforward, I do not like the University of Michigan or its football team. It is not a typical dis­like, such as one's dis-satisfaction with Tofu vegetables. No it is much more. It is a passionate hate for the school that represents all that is evil in the world. 
Hearing about Bo, his faithful wife Millie and their All-American son Glenn drives one to immediate distrac­tion. I mean who really cares what Bo has for breakfast (by the way it's quiche), and do really have to know how well little Glennie is doing in high school? Ok. Ok. I realize that it is not that bad compared to other states such as Texas or Alabama, where I hear football is a state religion. But if I hear that stupid Hail to the Victors song too many times on Saturday, well I just 


Michigan 
won't be able to show my face in the Great Lake State again. 
Wolverines, Wolverines, Wolverines, that is all you ever see or hear. You would think that the school in East Lan­sing was actually located on Mars. Every Sunday morning you wake up to read in the papers of how the 'Wolves' plastered Northwestern 52-0 or how · they demolished Wisconsin 42-0. This happens for about ten straight weeks. Then on January 2, you wake up to see that Bo's boys have choked again (I had to get that in). However, one gleaming moment over the holidays does not make up for the agony of the fall. 
Well this is my last chance. A last gasp at beating the tormentors of the north. Sure I know that it is irrational to get so wrapped up in one college foot­ball game. I know that life will go on no matter what the outcome of Satur­day's game. But, God wouldn't it be fantastic if we trounced the Wolves this weekend and set off the season right? Sure there would still be crime, pes­

football 
tilence and the Ayatollah, but what the hell, we would have at least beaten Mic­higan. 
The stadium holds approximately 106,000 fans. At least 95,000 will be rabid maize (what a corny color) and blue fans. This is not some junior high plea for fan support. It is not a cheer of "let's get rowdy". Instead it is a quest to the north so good will overcome evil. It is a journey to where they have artificial turf so the cheerleaders won't graze. Make it known that Notre Dame is in Ann Arbor Friday night. Let the players know you are there on gameday. On Sunday, wave goodbye knowing that yoll have witnessed an­other stunning upset by the Fighting Irish. Be sure to send your volleys and wake up your echoes, go ahead and even cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, but most important of all-SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER! Final Score: Notre Dame 27 Michigan 19. 
Brian Broderick  is  a  senior  Govern­ 
ment  major and  a  regular Viewpoint  
columnist.  


P.O. Box Q 
Holding class day denies justice 
Dear Editor: 
I find it remarkable that the majority of Notre Dame administrative offices were closed on Labor Day, yet the stu­dents and faculty were required to at­tend classes. What has become of jus­tice? 
Michael A. Schadek Grace Hall 
Generalizations do not match reality 
Dear Editor: 
Regarding the Viewpoint column by Paul Newett in the Sept. 3 edition of The Observer, Mr. Newett makes a lot of unfounded judgements about the Notre Dame student body. I'd like to know where he gets off typifying as "in­corrigible conformists" who are "morally...appallingly alike." And in what crystal ball has this prosaic pes­simist seen us all inevitably sacrificed upon "the altar of commerce?" 
I resent these generalizations, and am insulted by his labeling Notre Dame as "a finishing school for automatons." As for his bleak prediction that the new minority students will either be victims of racism or be "sadly assimilated into the decadence of our generation," (Is our generation more decadent than pre­vious ones?), I hope that if any minority freshmen read that stuff they will dis­miss it as the dreary whine of a dull and uninformed windbag. 
Take a sociology class, Mr. Newett, even though you think electives are "ul­timately pointless." And take a look at the people around you. I honestly think you'll find that your assessment of the student body is unfair, and that we're not all automatons who are being molded by "neofacist professors" to go out and start "stepping on people five days a week." Your article was nothing more than a string of verbose moaning, inspired by your own brand of hypoth­esis: "I wonder who's responsible for 

admitting jerks like him to this univer­
sity."  Stop  calling  us  names,  Mr.  
Newett.  
Mike Evces  

Cavanaugh Hall 

SUB recognizes ticket mistake 
Dear Editor: 
The Student Union Board extends its sincere apologies to the student body, especially those individuals who partic­ipated in the football ticket lottery. We now recognize that an error in judge­ment occurred when preferential treat­ment was received by certain individ­uals. 
We were wrong. 
Though it has been our policy in the past to give special consideration to commissioners' requests for tickets for SUB sponsored and co-sponsored events, we realize we made a mistake in considering football ticket distribu­tion a SUB co-sponsored event. We overstepped our bounds. 
In an attempt to make equitable res­titution to the student body, the tickets that were misallocated will be redistributed. The tickets in question were either left unclaimed yesterday at the Ticket Office and sold to those waiting or were recollected for distri­bution today. Starting at 1:00 p.m. this afternoon the tickets will be redistributed on a first-come, first­serve basis at the Ticket Stub in the basement of LaFortune located next to the Irish Gardens. 
In an effort to prevent this problem fr?m reoccurring, t~e SUB ticket policy wlll be re-exammed and definite measures will be taken to ensure fair ticket distribution in the future. 
It is our hopes that you, the student body, will forgive our poor judgement in this matter. We hope that all of our efforts t~ recti~y this situation will up­hold the mtegnty of the Student Union Board as an organization that is sin­~erely dedicated to enhancing student life by providing social, intellectual, and cultural opportunities. 
Student Union Board 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau. 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ......................... , ... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager.......... David Culligan News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim J~iley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Ceremele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression o: varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November3, 1988 

at 


Time 3:30 EDT (2:30 South Bend Time) 

TV & Radio 
.,
Tickets Game is sold out ., 
(capacity 101,701) l
.,
.,
.,
Michigan 9th
AP Rankings ,
Notre Dame 16th 
l 
,1 
1
, 
1 
1 
Series Michigan leads 13-5 First game in 1887 
Last Game September 13, 1986 

Center  Chuck  Lanza  not  only  leadership  as  co-captain  pro­ squad.  
anchors the Irish line, but his  vides a foundat ion for the e ntire  
87 Co-captains  


Holding down the line 
By ROSE PIETRZAK Sports Writer 
Chuck Lanza and Byron Spruell have heard the same questions over and over again. So often, in fact, they repeat each other's responses. Lanza and Spruell have become quite accustomed to being a pair, as the two are the co-captains for the 1987 season and will lead Notre Dame's offensive line as well as the rest of the team. The fifth-year starters, Lanza at center and Spruell at tackle, are hoping for a successful season and a chance to play in a January 1 bowl. 
The similarities, however, end there. Defining himself as the "silent leader," Spruell quickly points out the differ­ences between the two. 
''Chuck is more outspoken and physical than I am, but the guys know that I am there for them," Spruell says. "This leadership position is a very re­sponsible one. We have to rep­resent the team well and add that extra motivation. I think that we are both reliable, decent players who can get the job done." 
The road to the top, though, was challenging and full of doubts. The valedictorian of his high school class, Spruell struggled through his fresh­men engineering courses and found the transition year very difficult. "I came to Notre Dame because it offered the best of academics and athletics at the highest possible level. It was the best choice I could have made." 
A May '87 graduate, Spruell has several options to consider. 
"I would like to go into pro football, but I am going to pursue my MBA, and I have some opportunities lined up in manufacturing management." 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz says that Spruell is the epitomy of the Notre Dame student ath­lete. 
"Spruell is an excellent player," says Holtz. "He's solid, he's got above a 3.0 average in engineering -just everything you want in a young man. If there has ever been a young man who depicted what Notre Dame football is all about, it's Byron Spruell." 
Coming a long way on the same rough road, Lanza suf­fered through an injury-ridden freshman year and returned to the playing field as a third­string center behind all­American Mike Kelley and Ron Plantz. The sociology major found no relief in his school­work and was frustrated in his athletic endeavors. But with harder times behind him, Lanza is dedicating his final season to his late mother, Dolores. With tremendous sup­port from his family and hard work, Lanza was able to attain his position. 
"Playing behind Mike Kelley and Ron Plantz only made me more appreciative of where I am today," says Lanza. "I learned a lot from them on my way to becoming a starter, and it's definitely made me a better player. I think every player should pay his dues before walking onto the field as a starter. I was a prep team 
see CAPTAINS, page 2 Michigan 24, Notre Dame 23 

Foundations of the legend 
Editor's Note -This is the first of a series looking at some of the highlights, and lowlights, of the 100 years of football at Notre Dame. The series will run in each issue of Irish Extra. 
Notre Dame football. To many sports fans,. Notre Dame football is the essence of college athletics. In­credible success, intense rivalries, miraculous com­ebacks and some of the game's flashiest, most prolific performers have made the Fighting Irish synonymous with great foot­ball tradition. 
100 Years of Irish Football 
PETE SKIKO 

One hundred years ago, on November 23, 1887, that tradition got off to a seemingly rocky start when a group of students from Michigan University took a train to South Bend, toured the campus, shut out the Irish, 8-0, and headed back to Ann Arbor. Who would have thought back then that Notre Dame, with that loss, would begin the most suc­cessful college football pro­gram for the next hundred years? 
Throughout those last hundred years, that tradi­tion has been molded, of course, by the Notre Dame students, whose heroics on Saturday afternoons have captivated the nation. The tradition has been shaped by coaches • from the immortal Knute Rockne to the enig­matic Lou Holtz, the coaches of Notre Dame have been as successful and, in some cases, as legendary as any in the country. 
But the tradition has also largely been formed around the fans, who have been clamoring for tickets to see the Irish in action since the turn of the century. Quickly, 

ABC-TV national telecast (Keith Jackson, Bob Griese, Mike Adamle) Mutual Radio Network (WNDU-AM 1500 1 WVFI-AM 640 1 (Frank Mastro, Rick Rietbrock, Brian l
,
Broderick) 
1 
college football supporters came to appreciate Notre Dame's gritty, all-out style and their ability to get up for the big games, characteris­tics that hold true today. 
The success of the football team, combined with the na­tional attention it it has ac­quired through its upsets of top-ranked teams, has made the Irish Guard, the "Touch­down Jesus", the Leprec­haun, and the Notre Dame Victory March familiar to even the most casual college grid fan. What may not be familiar to even the most staunch follower of the Irish, however, is just how many individual and team NCAA records Notre Dame holds. 

est winning percentage of any college football team (.755) with a 651-198-40 record. The Irish have won more national champion­ships, seven, than any other school. No other school boasts more Heisman Trophy winners than Notre Dame, which has six. The Irish have fielded 23 unani­mous first-team All­Americans, more than any other school, and the all­time winning percentages of Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy remain the two high­est in college football his­tory. Notre Dame's gradua­tion rateis better than 98 percent among its football players. The national marks go on and on. 
But the Founding Fathers of Notre Dame football had to make sacrifices in order to get the tradition rolling. During the days of no hel­mets, limited transportation funds, and ridiculously lop­sided contests, Irish oppo­nents didn't face many of the top-ranked teams of the day. During the years 1887-1900, the Irish would play 
see BEGINNINGS, Page 3 

--~-­
page 2 Irish Extra Friday. September 11. 1987 
r----­

Captains 
continued from page 1 
player for two years. I've paid the price. I've earned my position." Holtz says that having Lanza as an '87 co-captain was a good choice. 
"I think Chuck Lanza is an excellent player at center," says Holtz. "I'm al­ways encouraged any time offensive lineman, such as Lanza and Spruell, are voted captains. Your linemen are 
r 
ususally very unselfish and they set the 
r 
r tempo for the football team," r Equally, Lanza and Spruell return r their coach's compliments. r "Holtz is not just a football coach," r­Lanza says, "but he's an outstandingr person who, luckily for us, funnels his r energies into coaching." r Spruell echoes his counterpart'sr praises.
r 
r "He's a national speaker as well as r a proven football coach, highly r respected by everybody everywhere." r As far as the season in front of them, r Lanza and Spruell have confidence in 
r 
the team and in themselves. Coming r ~ off the spectacular USC win, the cap­tains have found something to build on. 
"We finally saw ourselves break through," reflects Spruell. "Winning the traditional clash was a great up­boost." 
"All the other losses didn't matter ­we came from behind, with all the people in the stands thinking 'there's no way Notre Dame can come back and win'," says Lanza of the win. "We revived ourselves series after series in order to win. It was a surprise -espe­cially for USC. "The experience this year is really going to help against Michigan. "We 
I lost people and they have lost people. 
r 
We are a better team and so are they.I It's going to come down to who make
I 
the least amount of mistakes."
r 
"We can beat ourselves," Spruellr cautions. "last season we had a lot ac­
r r complished. but we didn't win." r 

' ~ 
r 
r 
r r 
f 
r 
r 
While backs like Mark Green (24) get the headlines and glory, linemen like Spruell 
"We felt cheated," interrupts Lanza. "During the summer, everything was directed toward Michigan, we spent three or four weeks preparing for that game, drills, workouts, trying to do as many good things as a team. We beat them physically and still came up short. Last season I know we played well -we could play anybody in the country -but the mental errors reflected the areas where we were young. The changes in attitude this year, the geared-up enthusiasm, point us in a new direction." 
Spruell also emphasizes team spirit as a key to this year's squad. 



The Observe~ile photo 

Lanza blocks behind quarterback Terry paid the price," says Lanza. "I've earned Andryslak In action from last season. "I my position." 
(73) toll In relative anonymity. Spruell, though, was recognized by his team­
"When a team believe in itself and has confidence that it will do well, the winning will take care of itself," says Spruell. "As for the seniors and fifth­year seniors who have been around for a while, I think we're mentally prepared for our final season. We want to win, and we know the key is just to relax, concentrate and work very hard." 
The pair also point to other aspects of this year's squad which should serve the Irish well." 
"The defense is really going to be ferocious," says Spruell. "They have 
The Observe~ile photo mates when they voted him co-captlan of the team. 
really come into their own. They help us win football games. Sure, I am ex­cited to see what Tim Brown is going to do, I can't put my finger on anything in particular, he can do many things." 
"It is amazing what he can do," boasts Lanza. "You just drop your jaw and watch, and, well, block." 
"There are so many motivational fac­tors for this season," remarks Spruell. "Brown as a Reisman candidate, and the lOOth year of football for Notre Dame, it is a great year for all of us." 
Spruell (73) listens to Irish head coach Lou Holtz In this fall's workouts. "If there was ever a young man who depleted what 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The 

By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -This time, there are no surprises. 
One year ago, Irish head coach Lou Holtz showed the Michigan Wolverines what they did not want to see in the 1986 season opener. Holtz' Notre Dame football squad was flashy, unpredicta­ble and, most importantly, able to move the ball against its nationally-ranked foes. 
And even though Michigan sqeaked out a 24-23 victory at Notre Dame Stadium, Holtz showed the nation that the Irish were back. In fact, his un­ranked squad moved into the 20th spot in the Associated Press poll following the loss. 
This Saturday afternoon at Michigan Stadium (3:30 EDT, 2:30 South Bend time), the Wolverines know what to ex­pect. 
"We will have no surprise this time," Holtz said. "Our offense is one geared at utilizing the talents that individuals have, and we have many of the same people back from last year. 
"If you're a good football team, I don't think surprise is really that im­portant with offense. We were success­ful last year because we were able to do things on a consistent basis to dis­rupt the University of Michigan." 
But in the end, it was a controversial call in the end zone and a missed field goal in the game's waning seconds that eventually disrupted Notre Dame. And the loss was the first of five suffered by the Irish in close games last season. 
This year, Holtz is cautious in promis­ing a good start. 
"I just want to emphasize how im­portant this game is for us," he said. "It's probably more important to us than it is to Michigan because we're not in a conference. But I'm not real sure how we're going to respond on the road, on artificial turf and in a game situation. I think we'll respond well, but there's just no way I can say until Sat­urday. 
"We're just going to look forward to it, go up there and do the best we can. I'm really anxious to see how our team responds." 
And after all the hype, all the specula­tion and all the waiting, Holtz is not the only one anxious for tomorrow after­noon. 
Notre Dame offense vs. Michigan defense 
If Michigan knows what to expect from the Irish, it also should know who to fear when Notre Dame has the ball -senior flanker Tim Brown. 
Michigan's offensive line averages al­most 280 pounds per man. Sporting News called It the biggest In the nation. 
Irish Extra page 3 
-



-Game .. . 
"When Tim is in the backfield, Mic­higan knows he's not back there to block," Holtz said of his Reisman Trophy candidate. "And when he's at flanker, they're probably going to double-cover him. We're going to try to get the ball into Timmy's hands as much as we can, and we should be able to use the fact that they'll key on him to free up some of our other people." 
To do that, senior quarterback Terry Andrysiak will have to pick apart a traditionally-strong Wolverine defense. Holtz said he is pleased with the prog­ress his starter has made over the past two weeks, and hopes Andrysiak handles himself as well tomorrow as he has in recent practices. 
Notre Dame co-captain and starting center Chuck Lanza might miss the en­tire game with a sprained shoulder, but the rest of the trenches seem to favor the Irish (at least in terms of size) against a smaller Michigan defensive line. That should mean a few holes for the Irish tailbacks and fullbacks, and with the talent in the Notre Dame back­field, expect a lot of shuffling at those positions. 
Defensively, Michigan coach Bo Schembechler says his linemen and linebackers are the strengths of his unit. 
One of the Big Ten's top linemen, senior tackle Mark Messner, returns this season, with junior Brent White back at the other tackle position. Causing Notre Dame's questionable center position trouble at middle guard will be sophomore Mike Teeter. 
The Wolverines' second-leading tack­ler in 1986, senior inside linebacker Andree Mcintyre, and sophomore out­side linebacker Tim Williams return to spark an impressive corps of 'backers. 
The secondary is relatively inexper­ienced, but Schembechler and the Wol­verine coaching staff have worked hard all fall in that area. 
w-~--······-~s•J..illlllliiiiiiii...~.­
"We will do anything we can to im­
The Observellf'ile photo 

prove our Wolverine tailback Jamie Morris Is just
secondary," Schembechler 

one of the weapons that the Irish will has established himself as one of the
said. "We will not be vulnerable back 
have to be wary of In Saturday's game premier runner In the country and a can­
there." 
at Michigan. The small, elusive Morris didate for the Helsman Trophy 
The two returning starters are senior free safety Erik Campbell and junior Michael Taylor out of the starting pic-If there is a big-play man, it's senior cornerback David Arnold. ture yet. · outside linebacker Cedric Figaro. 
"He <Demetrius Brown) is an excel­Figaro set a Notre Dame record with Michigan offense vs. Notre Dame lent athlete," Holtz said. '~He has a tre­seven fumble recoveries last year, and defense mendous arm and runs the option well, is joined at the other outside spot by 
and we expect to face a good college classmate Darrell "Flash" Gordon. The Wolverines have essentially the quarterback in him. Taylor is capable 
same concern as the Irish on offense. of handling the team as well." Ned Bolcar and Wes Pritchett will How will an inexperienced quarter­But no matter which of the Michigan start at inside linebacker, and the front back react in a game situation? juniors calls the signals, the Notre line will be composed of Tom Gorman, 
Junior Demetrius Brown is expected Dame defense should have a busy day. Jeff Kunz and Mike Griffin. to get the starting nod and try to follow Michigan's offensive line returns all up the job Big Ten Player of the Year but one player from the strong unit of "We have to improve defensively Jim Harbaugh did last season. But 1986, and many are calling the 1987 line over last year if we're going to be suc­Schembechler has not counted junior (which averages about 280 pounds per cessful this season," Holtz said. 
man) the best in the nation. Much of the possible improvement 
Add the talents of elusive tailback could come from the Notre Dame sec­Jamie Morris, a pre-season all-America ondary, which has looked sharp so far candidate who gained 1,086 yards on this fall. the · ground last year, and the Wol­verines have the potential to run up Junior Corny Southall calls the sig­some big numbers. nals from free safety, junior George 
Holtz is calling the 1987 Irish defense Streeter lines up at free safety and the "No-Name Defense." sophomore Stan Smagala and senior 
"We're not going to have any super­Brandy Wells will start at the corners. stars," he said. "But I think we have Senior Marv Spence also will receive the people who can get the job done and considerable playing time at corner­make some good things happen." back. 
but by the turn of the century, Notre Dame's football team was beginning to
Beginnings 
. at least gain respect in the Midwest. continued from page 1 Inconsistency plagued the squad, 
however, as was evidenced in 1900 when whoever would play them. Thus, the Irish won their first four games by seasons like 1895 were the rule, in which a combined score of 245-0, and then Notre Dame's schedule consisted of proceded to score a total of 16 points in Northwestern Law School, Illinois Cy­their final six games. Obviously, parity cling Club, Indianapolis Artillery didn't exactly dominate the 19th cen­School and Chicago Physicians and Sur­tury college football scene. geons. (By the way, the Irish went 3-1 The first touchdown in Notre Dame that year. Indianapolis Artillery shut history was scored by fullback Harry 
The Observeli'FIIe photo 

them out, 18-0.) Jewett against Michigan on April 20, 
With horses like these to run behind, It's It's hard to establish a national fol­1988. His points were the first of 21,352 small wonder that Morris has had so lowing playing teams like South Bend in the history of Notre Dame football. much success at tailback High School and Rush Medical School Who would have thought? 


-
page 4 Irish Extra Friday, September 11, 1987 
-· 
KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TD LG RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TD LG HECK 7 36 5.1 1 8 Miller 6 107 17.817.8 0 TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TDLG BROWN 25 69B 27.9 2 96 BROWN 45 910 20.2 84 5 JOHNSON 6 53 B.B 0 22 BANKS 2 27 13.5 0 20 Jackson 31 592 19.1 2 50 TAYLOR 6 51 B.5 0 15 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 4527 3439 GREEN 96 406 4.2 2 27 Jackson 2 17 8.5 0 9 GREEN 25 242 9.7 0 29 DUMAS 5 85 17.0 0 24 Total Plays 842 734 JOHNSON 80 349 4.4 517 BOLCAR 2 15 7.5 0 10 Williams 13 13B 10.6 3 38 WARD 5 66 13.2 0 1B Yards per Play 5.4 4.7 TAYLOR 69 284 4.1 5 20 WARD 1 23 23.0 0 23 BANKS 10 55 5.5 2 22 Others 9 109 12.1 1 24 Yards per Game 411.6 312.6 BROWN 59 254 4.3 216 SOUTHALL 1 15 15.0 0 15 
PENAL TIES-YARDS 57-548 56-464 BANKS 49 209 4.3 034 T. Monahan 1 11 11.0 0 11 
'86 Irish Stats 
Schedules

FUMBLE5-LOST 27-13 29-12 ANDRYSIAK 29 114 3.9 1 22 SASS 1 4 4.0 0 4 TOTAL FIRST OOWNS 252 190 H. Francisco 23 92 4.0 019 ROBB 1 -2 -2.0 0 -2 .Notre Dame MichiganBy Rushing 128 73 WARD 10 91 9.1 0 25 NOTRE DAME 36 BOB 22.4 2 96 
By Passing 107 103 D. FRANCISCO 18 84 4.7 011 OPPONENTS 46 955 20.7 0 35 Sept. 12 • at Michigan Sept. 12 • NOTRE DAME 
By Penalty 17 14 Monahan 20 68 3.4 014 Sept. 19 ·MICHIGAN ST. Sept. 19 ·WASHINGTON ST. THIRD OOWNS-CONV 167-81 160-65 J.I;FFERSON 19 51 2.7 110 
Percentage 49 Sept. 26 -at Purdue Sept. 26 • LONG BEACH ST.
41 Bauerlein 53 35 0.7 1 .7 POSSESSION TIME 348:07 311:53 BELLES 10 24 2.4 016 Oct. 1 0 -at Pitt Oct. 4 • WISCONSIN Minutes per Game 31:41 28:19 Others 16 22 1.4 1 18 INT RET NO YDS AVG TD LG Oct. 17 • at Air Force Oct. 1 0 • at Michigan St. PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TD LO NOTRE DAME 551 2083 3.8 1834 Oct. 24-USC 
Oct. 17 -IOWA 
OPPONENTS 427 1314 3.1 1343 

Lawrence 3 28 9.3 0· 28 
Oct. 31 • NAVY Oct. 24 · at Indiana
Wilson 26 222 8.5 0 47 Wilson 3 10 3.3 0 8 Jackson 3 13 4.3 Nov. 7 • BOSTON COLLEGE Oct. 31 • NORTHWESTERN 
I 
0 6 Haywood' 1 27 27.0 0 27 BROWN 2 75 37.5 0 56 Stonebreaker 1 9 9.0 0 9 Nov. 14 ·ALABAMA Nov. 7 • at Minnesota Lawrence 1 50 50.0 0 50 SPENCE 1 0 0.0 0 0 
Nov. 21 -at Penn St. Nov. 14 • at Illinois
WARD 1 0 0.0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 9 74 8.2 0 28 
NOTRE DAME 33 360 10.9 0 56 OPPONENTS 9 115 12.8 2 58 Nov. 28 -at Miami NOv. 21 • OHIO ST. 
OPPONENTS 23 227 9.9 1 66
l 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE MICHIGAN DEFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE MICHIGAN OFFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL OLB 86Steve Thibert 6-5 240 Sr. OLB 48 Cedric Figaro 6-2 246 Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WTCL SE 63 Reggie Ward 5-10 178 Sr. 39John Willingham 6-3 235 Sr. 43Rod West 6-3 226 So. SE 1 Greg McMurtry 6-3 200 So. 
82 Ray Dumas 6-1 176 Jr. DT 60 Mark Manner 6-3 248 Sr. LT 87Tom Gorman 6-6 260 Jr. 84 Dan Jokisch 6-7 210 Fr. TE 88 Andy Heck 6-6 248 Jr. 99 Carlitos Bostic 6-2 231 Sr. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 247 So. QT 74Mike Husar 6-3 279 Sr. 85 Frank Jacobs 6-5 225 Fr. MG 56 Billy Harris 6-0 250 Sr. NT 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 246 Sr. 50 Dave Weil 6-4 265 Jr. LT LT Tom Rehder 6-7 263 Sr. 91 Mike Teeter 6-4 255 So. 86 Rich Morrison 6-3 248 Jr. QO 76Michael Dames 6-2 265 Sr. 70 Marty Lippincott 6-5 292 Jr. DT 96John Herrmann 6-5 258 Jr. RT 93Jeff Kunz 6-5 256 Sr. 65 Michael Kerr 6-4 258 Jr. LG 65 Tom Freeman 6-4 265 Sr. 93 Dave Folkertsma 6-5 263 Sr. 90Jeff Aim 6-6 242 So. c 67 John VItale 6-1 289 Sr. 56 Ted Healy 6-4 243 So. OLB 85Tim Williams 6-4 229 So. OLB 38 Darrel Gordon 6-3 210 Sr. 69 Andy Borowski 6-4 258 Sr. c 51 Chuck Lanza 6-2 270 Sr. 24 Bobby Abrams ?00 Jr. 30 Frank Slams 6-3 235 Sr. SG 64 Dave Chester 6-2 260 Sr. 75 Tim Grunhard 6-3 271 So. ILB 54 Andrew Mcintyre t~ 241 Sr. ILB 34 Was Pritchett 6·5 234 Sr. 79 Dean Dingman 6-4 265 Fr. RG 62 Jeff Pearaon 6-2 250 So. 30John Milligan 6-3 218 So. 45 Greg Harris 6-1 195 Sr. ST 72John Elliot 6-7 306 Sr. 71 Dean Brown 6-2 273 So. ILB 57 Curtis Feaster 6-3 235 So. ILB 47 Ned Bolcar 6-5 235 Jr. 75 Greg Skrepenak 6-8 305 Fr. RT 73 Byron Spruell 6-4 279 Sr. 30John Milligan 6-3 218 So. 49John Foley 6-3 228 So. TE 80Jeff Brown 6-4 238 Jr. 61 Pete Rokich 6-7 262 Sr. sc 26Davld Key 5·11 200 So. CB 5 Brandy Wells 6·0 186 Sr. 89 Derrick Walker 6-2 239 Jr. QB 2 Terry Andryalak 6-1 184 Sr. 25 Rick Hassel 6-0 191 Jr. 25 Marv Spence 5-10 179 Sr. FL 2 Chris Calloway 5-10 173 So. 9 Tony Rice 6-2 190 so. 55 8 Doug Mallory 6-1 194 Sr. FS 31 Corny Southall 6·1 186 Jr. 3 Tripp Welborne 6-1 185 Fr. FB 46 Pernell Taylor 5-11 218 Sr. 10AIIen Bishop 5-10 185 Sr. 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 174 Fr. QB 6 Demetrius Brown 6-1 190 Jr. 39 Braxton Banks 6-2 207 So. FS 5 Erik Cambell 5-10 1711 Sr. ss 27 George Streater 6-2 200 Jr. 9or Michael Taylor 6-0 190 Jr. TB TB Mark Green 5-11 181 Jr. 20 Anthony Mitchell 5-11. 176 Jr. 13 Pat Eilers 5-11 198 Jr. FB 32Jarrod Bunch 6-2 227 So. 12 Ricky Watters 6-3 180 Fr. we 15Davld Arnold 6·3 196 Jr. CB 29Stan Smagala 5-11 177 So. 46Phil Webb 6-1 202 Sr. FL 81 Tim Brown 6-0 195 Sr. 345ean LaFountaine 6-0 185 Jr. 32 D'Jaun Francisco 5-11 182 Jr. TB 23Jamle Morris 5-7 183 Sr. 21 Aaron Robb 6-1 190 Jr. 46Phil Webb 6-1 202 Sr. p 19 VInce Phelan 5-10 170 Sr. p 43 Monte Robbins 6-4 202 Sr. K 14 Ted Gradel 5·9 165 Sr. K 19Mike Gillette 6-1 185 Jr. 
18 or Billy Hackett 6-1 180 Fr. 
Irish Offense v. Wolverine Defense Irish Defense v. Wolverine Offense 
'Morris 
! ' Webb
Me! 
Cambell
Bishop 
Mitchell 

!ld 'Bunch
Hassel 

LaFountaine Webb 
'Brown 
or Taylor Williams Mcintyre Feaster Thibert .Abrams Milligan Milligan Willingham Calloway Welborne 




' ' ' ' 
... ' BroT El! c!er v! Da! H! McMurtry
Messner Harrill Herrmann 
WalkerSkrepenak Dingman Borowski Kerr WeiI Jokisch
Bostic Teeter Folkertsma 

' ' ' ' 
Rehder Freeman Lanza Pearson Gorman G!
Spruell
Ward Heck Kunz 
Lippincott Healy Gninhard Brown Rokich Jacobs Figaro Flannery Morrison 
' ' ' Aim 
1
Dumas Gordon
West 


' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
Stams Wells
Brown
Andryslak 

' ' 
Spence 

' Robb ' 
Rice 
' ' 

Pritchett Bolcar 
Taylor 

Harris Foley
Banks 

Southall 
' 
Streeter 
Lyght
Green 
Eilers 
Watters 
' 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
enough to pick the winner of a given 
Dennis Corrigan Pete Gegen Rick Rletbrock Marty Strasen Jane Shea 
game. The person must pick the winner Roger Valdlserrl Frank Liggio
Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. 
Guest Celebrity Random Student
and give the underdog points. Home 
0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0·0-0 
o-o-o 0-0-0
team is in CAPS. 

.000 .000 .000 .000 .000 
.000 .000
(last week: 0-0) (last week: 0-0) (last week: 0-Q) (last week: 0-0) (last week: 0-Q) 
(last week: 0-Q) (last week: 0-0) 
BOSTON COLLEGE over Temple by 10.5 Eagles Eagles Owls Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles 
OHIO ST. over W. VIrginia by 17 Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes
.... 
Tennessee over MISS. ST. by 9.5 Volunteers Volunteers Bulldogs Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers PITT over N.C. State by 17 Panthers Panthers Wolfpack Wolfpack Panthers Wolfpack Panthers Texas Christian over AIR FORCE by 1.5 Horned Frogs Horned Frogs Horned Frogs Horned Frogs Horned Frogs Horned Frogs Falcons OKLAHOMA over N. Carolina by 22 Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Tar Heels WASHINGTON over Purdue by 22 Huskies Boilermakers Huskies Boilermakers Boilermakers Huskies Boilermakers NEBRASKA over Ucla by 6.5 Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Bruins .cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers 
---
Arkansas over MISSISSIPPI by 4 Razorbacks Rebels Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Arizona St. over ILLINOIS by 7 Sun Devils Sun Devils Sun Devils lllini Sun Devils Sun Devils Sun Devils AUBURN over Kansas by 36 War Eagles War Eagles War Eagles Jayhawks War Eagles Jayhawks Jayhawks PENN ST.·over Alabama by 3 Nittany Lions Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Nittany Lions Crimson Tide Nittany Lions Nittany Lions ARIZONA over lowaby 2.5 Wildcats Hawkeyes Wildcats Hawkeyes Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats MICHIGAN Over Notre Dame by 4 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

Accent
Friday, September 11, 1987 
page 9 

Coming shortof the glory of God 
the Church be If It aped thetheir intimacy with mandated destructive acts; the acts
1\ n N.D. graduate phoned to ment, the famine in Africa, "-say: "You were quoted Mon­liberation theology. A modern openness toward the possibility should be examined, to see world whose spirit Is that of how potentially dangerous they anti· Christ? Perhaps the critics
of transmitting new life. Twenty
day In the Trlb," and then read Catholic isn't necessarily the are. An unmarried couple con­are right when they say the 
me a paragraph from an article first one on, or the last one off, years later, liberated Catholics, defending everything from fesses: "We've been having sex. Church Is no longer credible. abortion to trans-sexuality, are Is that a sin?" I'm not In a rush Would the Church be more credible If It baptized sin, and
not simply saying: "It's none of to be the judge who accusesFather Robert Griffin them of violating the 6th and promised that through the
the Church's business what I thorns and thistles of sin, we
do In the bedroom with my 9th commandments. My con­letters to a lonely God own body." They're cern Is to show them the com­become heirs of the glory of demonstrating for the Pope to mandment as an embodiment God? I've gone to churches where
dialogue with them, so that of wisdom intended to warn 
of mine which his local paper any of these band wagons. A the members hold an election
they can persuade him to see them against harming them­
had used. I was unhappy to modern Catholic keeps an eye to decide on the articles of the
that yesterday's moral darkness selves in a serious way.
hear my opinion quoted out of out for a change in the wea­Creed. Should the catholic
is today's light at the end of context, embarrassed to be ther; otherwise, he'll find that Is the Bible right or wrong Church be run by a democratic
the tunnel. 
cited as though I were an au­he's out of step, and the when it says the wages of sin consesus? If so, what did thority on religion. I've brought parade Is passing him by: a Who would have expected are death? Abortions kill; dis­Christ mean when He promised It on myself, buttonholing burn-out, lost on a nostalgia modern Americans to be so eases picked up from promis­He would not leave us or­people as the Ancient Mariner trip to the Kerouac generation. angry at the Vatican for laying cuity kill; teenage pregnancies phans? My faith doesn't rest on buttonholed the Wedding The need for social justice guilt trips on them? They aren't ruin young lives. Divorces guarantees from an Infallible Guest, explaining my views on highlighted by a particular asking for reconciliation and destroy families. casual COU· pope; that would put the cart the Church, morality, and the protest movement may be as forgiveness to be made easier; piing turns sex into a game of before the horse. Having faith, Catholic tradition; however, I great as ever; but who, in the they want to be told that ab­trivial pursuits that makes a I can see the Importance of a do It as a Christian trying to 80s, is marching on Washing­solutions aren't needed, since mockery out of the idea of per­shepherd like Peter, to whom keep his act together, not as a ton, to sing "We shall over­the malice of those sins has manent commitment. Child the Lord said: "Feed my professional entitled to grab come" at the Lincoln Memorial? been neutered. Part of their abuse--on the increase In this lambs...Look after my headlines. I'm not apologetic "All have sinned and come hangup is that other human permissive age--cripples the sheep ... Feed my sheep, over my kind of faith; I offer it short of the glory of God." This beings, as fallible as them­hearts and minds of the very please." as a personal statement that old-fashioned text, which selves, are entrusted with the young. Perversions make a What would happen If the other catholics can kick Protestants love, is as modern ministry of forgiveness. Who mockery of the biological urge. professionals demythologized around, If they are looking for as truth can be. Nowadays, wants to depend on male Birth control itself has not been the Church out of existence? a point of view to live by. mostly Baptists admit that they chauvinist hypocrites to a unmixed blessing. Cynicism, The world could touch rock 
Alexander Pope wrote: "Be are sinners saved by grace. administer the sacraments? For a generation ago, used to say: bottom, If It wished, unable to not the first by whom the new The Pope is at odds with mem­their peace of mind, up-to-date "It takes a wise child to know lift itself up by Its own are tried, Nor yet the last to lay bers of his flock living in the Catholics should remember his own father, but any fool bootstraps. Even atheists might the old aside." He was talking after-glow of the sexual revolu­that grace is everywhere. Does can know his mother." Because then miss the Church; If the about fashions, habits, or tion. Part of the argument is the Father ignore the prodigal of surrogate parents, even Church died tomorrow, the at­
opinions. An ancient religion whether the pontiff sees sin in need of mercy when he or cynicism is in need of revision. heists might wish they could shouldn't trouble Itself about where there Is no sin, only late­she cries out to heaven: "I have The Church may be Irrele­Invent it again. The Church has being fashionable; if it does, it blooming forms of human sinned, and come short of the vant. reactionary, and legalistic; sinned and come short of the will be relevant until the wind liberation. glory of God"? but it has a commitment to the glory of God. The Church has changes, after which its creed In 1968, disenchantment set Sin is a legal word which im­transmission of life, temporal to recognize this darkness In will become a set of cliches. in among Catholics when Paul plies you have been and eternal. The world may be itself, before It can be useful to 
Religion in recent decades VI Issued an encyclical re­pronounced guilty by a judge; progressive, enlightened, the world as a servant. The has tended to be trendy. The stating the Church's disap­but even then, the Church al­liberated; its modernity could world has to come to terms battle cry goes up: "All hands proval of artificial birth control. lows for the possibility of sub­lead us all to our deaths long with its own kind of darkness, on deck!"--for the Civil Rights Millions of Catholics gave up jective Innocence. Sin is also a before the Bomb brings on or It will continue to be at odds Movement, the anti-war move-the religion which burdened word that applies to self-Armageddon. What good would with the Church as Its servant. 
Simon's ''Barefoot'' debuts at NO 
N
SARAH VOIGT The Alpha Omega Club has accent writer traveled nearly three million miles and presented over eil Simon's comedy hit 9, 350 performances before "Barefoot In the Park" will they found their way to Notre be presented in the Notre Dame. Rossi explains, "We Dame Room on Monday, Sep­think that it will be neat to tember 14 at 7:00 as part of bring a drama group here to the La Fortune Center Open the campus. We chose them House activities. because they are a small com­
This free performance by the pany and have a good reputa­Alpha Omega Players, a nation­tion." ally acclaimed touring compa­ny, promises to be "a fun, Other Open House activities 
Mond?Jy.. September 14 7·00pm
light-hearted comedy that for Monday include a live should appeal to a broad broadcast by WVFJ outside of Notre Ddrne Room-2nd group of students" according Lafortune with free ice cream to Nick Rossi, cultural arts being served and the il­Floor Lafortune chairman of the S.U.B. lusionists, "Denny and Lee", 
"Barefoot In the Park" Is a will hold a magic workshop hilarious saga of a pair of and give a performance. newlyweds played by Jill Giles But, that's not all. Don't miss and Mitch Berry, as they set up out on the Scavenger Hunt! Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 



housekeeping In a rackety Prizes include albums, savings apartment. Nathan Thomas and bonds, and gift certificates. Heidi Schwarzenbart round out Look for clues in the next Ob­the cast as the bride's mother server and In the main lobby of and eccentric neighbor. Lafortune. 
The show gets Its creative title from a rather bizarre test And, after "Barefoot in the of love. The bride demands Park", there will be a DJ in that her husband run barefoot Theodore's to culminate the through the snow to prove that day's events. With these and he deserves her. And, this Is many other activities to partici­only one of the many comic pate In , this year's Lafortune situations which Neil Simon Is Open House should be a tre­famous for. mendous success. 
1-11, MOM. \-10BBE5 AN~ I If D£.1>£NDS. 51-\E. \'JEt{T TIME \RA'-18.\NG ~\) Dll){'\ iN<E -rnt. I.JIS\IED nit:. J\JRASSIC. ~ 11'-1 1\-\£ PERIOD T0\).1\''1. TOILET 9;:J Will, 
RtMEMB£R 1 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, September 11, 1987
page 10 The Observer 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
improved tremendously. She's not the same player I first saw. She's also in there vying for a position on the team." 
Of course, Gelfman is also happy with the freshmen, which she hopes are a sign of things to come in Notre Dame recruiting. 

"We've gotten progressively better in recruiting, and I feel all the recruits I've brought in the last two years have helped," said Gelfman. "Cahill's an obvious plus for the program. It shows that even though the academic standards are high, we can recruit the top players." 
Another newcomer to the wo­men's tennis program is assis­tant coach Mike Owens, a gen­eral manager and pro at Elkhart Racquet Club. An as­sistant coach will be needed as the roster this year has ex­panded to 13 players. 
The starting lineup for Satur­day's season-opening match with North Star Conference rival Northern Illinois includes Cahill at the top seed, followed by Tolstedt, senior Michelle Dasso, Lohrer, Pacella, and Kelly. The doubles teams, with seeds not yet definite, will be Lohrer and Dasso, Tolstedt and Cahill, and Pacella and Illig. The 2 p.m. match will be held at Courtney Courts. Inclimate weather will send the dual match indoors to the newly­constructed Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish have cut back their fall schedule to include two dual meets and three tourna­ments. The short fall season marks a contrast to the ex­tended spring slate, which will start in late January and in­clude dates with Ivy League teams and Western schools. 
"I wanted tne mcommg freshmen to get well adjusted, so when we move into the second semester, they'll be ready and know what to ex­pect," said Gelfman. 
Tile a.....Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Cena, .:cepts classified ~from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tile a..... Saint ~office, located on the third floor of HllggarCollge Center, accepts claslfleds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through FridaY. Deldline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must 
Classifieds be pntpllid, either in person or by mail. The charve is 10 cents per five ~perday. 
NOTICES 
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 237-1949: H: 277-8131. 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY; 277-2724 EVE. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
tai chi exercise call 289-9423 
MY CHICK is in Pittsburgh and needs a ride too her alma mater (NO) for the NO -Mich ST. game the weekend of the 19th. If you know of anyone coming out for the game who could give her a ride from the Pit· tsburgh area, call Kevin at 239-5303 any lime of the day or night. 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Receive $5 off $50 or more purchase of your textbooks at Pandora's Bookstore, located on 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weel<' 10:00 a.m.-5:30. 
With, receive an extra 10% off on pur­
chases of used paperbacks (in stock) at 
Pandora's Bookstore, located at 808 
Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're 
open 7 days a weel<' 10:00 a.m.-5:30 
p.m. 
Needed: childcare Wed afternoons 1­
5:30 1 child age 2 near N[)$2.00 hr. Call 233-2908 
Need one Mlch St student ticket. Call Kevin at 239-5303 
I LOST/FOUND I 
HELP!!! IF YOU FOUND A BLUE JEAN JACKET CALL TIM AT 1204. BIG REWARD!!!$$$$$ 
LOST LOST LOST PAIR OF GLASSES WITH THIN BLACK FRAMES IN A SNAKESKIN CASE. LOST THURSDAY IN OR NEAR FITZPATRICK HALL. PLEASE CALL £4510 IF FOUND. 
Hey ·My glasses with thin black frames are lost. You can help me keep up my grade point in EE if you get them back to me soon ! They are still in a snakeskin case and both have been missing since Thursday. Please help me out. £4510. Thanks a bunch. 
Found,calculator in Comp. Blgd. from calc. 125 tutorial last Thurs. Belongs to a Dave. I think. To claim, call Tara at 3724. 
FOR RENT 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD 288-095&255-3684 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 
FAIR PRICES 277-3097 683-8889 
EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR NO. 259-4943 OR 234-3827. 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272·5959 
3-BEDROOM APARTMENT FULLY FURNISHED BEAUTIFUL OLD HOME 10 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS CALL233 6296 
Room for rent. Call Mrs. Cooper 272­
3004. 
TURTLE CREEK: now renting 2 bdrrn. apartment, very close to campus. 271­0513 
WANTED 
HIRING ALL POSITIONS -FULL TIME. PART TIME ·WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST.• 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 277·5666. APPLY IN PERSONI 
NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE G.A. TICK­ETS. WILL PAY SSS I CALL MIKE X4340 HIRING FULL AND PART TIME PHONE INTERVIEWERS FOR MARKET RE­SEARCH FIRM, SHOULD ENJOY TALKING WITH PEOPLE, TYPE 25 W· P-M, AND AVAILABLE FOR WEEKEND SHIFTS. FOR APPT., CALL 282-2754. 

SHARP, ARTICULATE graduate student to assist Niles manu­facturing company as bartender and chauffeur for NO home football games. Must be personable and able to interact with top executives. Please call 683-8100 EXT4737 for interview. 
AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. 
I NEED BC TIX. ALOT. THEY'VE ALREADY BOUGHT PLANE TIX. Please call Jim at 271-0763. 
R'~~·p;;~~ii;i;· ..·~~"rt:i;;;;~ ..··;;~·~r,·· ..:;;;~;;;d 
Flexible hours. 232-9918. 
Responsible individuals needed for gen­eral theatre work. Apply M-T-W from 2-4 pm., University Park Mall Cinema. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
FOR SALE 

1978 Honda Wagon many new parts $650 or best call 288-6240 after 6 
IBM POXT with 10 MEG hard disk, color monitor, Quadboard including buinin clock and DOS. Call Kelly at 239-5936 or 233-5284. 
Three-piece massive wood bedroom set. Queen size bed, tall dresser, vanity with large mirror. 1930's. $250. Call Kelly at 239-5937 or 233-5284. 
Classic '72 MGB Conv. $1900 Call 283­4024 
MOVIE POSTERS FOR YOUR DORM ROOMS. ALL KINDS & SIZES. 277­
5441. 
Group of 4 GA's U of M 517-792-4609 

Couches, chairs, tables Very reasonable. Call Mrs. Cooper after 6:00. 272-6085 
TECNICS SA190,POLK AUDIO 4AS. CALL TOM, 234-8377. 
Kiehn Quarters tbl wt.! chrs-$30. 3 pc bdrrn set-$90. 291-9425 
HONDA 110 SCOOTER, EXCELLENT COND. GREAT FOR OFF CAMPUS TRANSPORTATION. $275 X2359. 
maxell XL-IIs-90 tapes.10 for $23. Nak Bx300 & OMS 2a 1 mo. old $990 Rez 277-2638 
( TICKETS 
PITT TIX WANTED CALL MATT 3349 
································································ 
Need six Michigan State student tickets or GA's. Call Mike at 271-0765. 
I NEED GA TIXS TO MICH. MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 
································································ 
NEED BC TICKETS WILL PAY $ call Theresa 233-5732 
NEED 2 BC GA or student call MB 233­5732 
................................................................ 
NEED 2TIX TO ANY NO HOME GAMES. CALL 272-3491. GA'S 
................................................................ 
$$$ NAyy TIX $$$Need 5 Navy tix Call Karen 271-0585 
................................................................ 
Need (4) GA's for Navy. Call Jane Anne at 283-2998. 
i-~;;;;d;·M;;;;;:·si:·G.·;;.:;·Pi~;;~·;;;;ii·ii~~-d 
814235 
a·,(3·$$:s·oF'FeFieo.FoR·G;;.:s·FoA''Aii 
HOME GAMES! CALL 4579 
w'A;.rriio:·(3;;.:s··F'oii..;;.Nv..N'o..iioMe 
GAME WILLING TO PAY GOOD PRICE CALL MATT AT 1404 
w'AiiT..usc:No..FooT8Ati:.Tii..:i'13:. 
422-2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. 
N'iie·o··;;;ic.Hi<i;;.t.i··;:i:ii:'c'Ai:i:·2:;:;~9339 
AFTER 8PM 
HELPI I need 2 GA'I lor USC, calf Dan at 1410......... 
ALABAMA TICKETSII I NEED 4 OF THEM II CALL SEAN £2836 
BRUTUS' CLAN IS COMING 
and they need four Michigan State tick­ets. Call Brutus NOW at283-1483. Urgh! Go Irish! 
WILL TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 GA BAMA. TIX NOT FOR SALE. (201) 321­8269 9-5 EST. 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH STI PLEASE CALL NED AT 3515 
,_, TICKETS FOR ALABAMA ''''" I NEED LOTS call Don 272·3779 
Rich Uncle will pay top dollar for four Navy GA 's between tha thirty yard lines. Call Clare 284-4104 or 312-750-4981. 
WANTED: 4 TICKETS FOR THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME. CALL EVENINGS AFTER 5:00. COLLECT CALLS ACCEPTED. ELKHART 264­1761. 
NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S FOR USC GAME -OCT 241 FAMILY COMING FORB-DAY CALL MIKE X3138 
WE ALL WANT TICKETS BUT I NEED THEM FOR MICHIGAN, MICHIGAN STATE AND BOSTON COL­LEGE YOUR REWARD WILL BE SOME SERIOUS CASH CALL STEVE AT 232­9816 
NEED A RIDE TO MICH GAME? CALL 4579 
NEED MSU TICKETS GA or STU call carolyn x3872 

I need msu tickets desperately call joe at 1795 
RELATIVES COMMING LONG DIS. TANCEI WANT TO SEE "ND" WIPE OUT "BAMA"I WILL PAY CASH$$$ TODAY II NOWII CALL 1683, ASK FOR TOM. 
PARENTS HAVE NEVER EXPERI­
ENCED NO FOOTBALL GAME. I NEED 
2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL JIM 
AT 3366. 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL JENNY 284·4154 
································································ 
I NEED 1 OR 2 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL PAUL 283-3431 
need 1 stud. or GA tic for MSU call 2915 
cfiiEF.NeEo..2.t:1si:i'.i3"A:s·c:.\i:L'.iiiiT. 
1609. 
A.M..IN'DES.PERAT·e·N-EED'OF'2·sr·uo. 
TIX AND 2 GA'S FOR MICH. ST. GAME PLEASE CALL X1275. 
NEED 2 MICH STATE TIX STUD OR GA CALL 4340 
N-~-~d···Msu··aA~·-·~;~~··g~t--N~~--CiA~··t~ 
trade for the MSU's that I need II inter­ested, call Kevin. 1496 
p·,~;;;;~·;;~i;;·;;;~·;·i·~~·~;;4··e;;~;-;;~·c~ii~;;~ 
GA'SII Do you hear? BC GA'S... WILL PAY DOLLAR SIGNSIIII (call Frank 3104) 
NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX -HAVE USC TIX TO TRADE CALL JOHN AT 271-0464 
;··oiis'PiiF,'Ar'El.v'·'N'E'Eo..oNe..1ic.i<e1 
FOF THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME ­
G.A. OR STUDENT. CALL CHRISTINA AT £2762. 
oiis'PiiF,'Ariil.v..s'E'iii<i'N'G'5·G.'.4:··:r;c;l(. 
ETS TO THE NAVY GAME.PAY GOOD!!! PLEASE CALL ANN AT £2815. 
t:1v.EiA'orii'iiR..wii:i:.i3iii'ii·8ii;;.u;:iFul. 
EX-WIFE AND $$$ FOR 1 MICH. ST. GA. x2101 NICK 
i.N.iieo·3·'G'A·~·F'ofi·ac·~;·N;,vy:·c;;:ci. 
TIM at1205 
iio.Mesici<.F"iias·;;·t.iiie.iis·;;.v:ii:.\M:.\ 
TICKETS TO SEE BROTHER-Dan 3253 
i..;;;;;;d..y;;;;;·N;;.vv..i~;rti'c;;ii'c;;;;;;t...;t 
2443. 
Mic-;;i(i;;.t.i··sr:.\Tii.rix..Neeoeo~··~ 
and Dad(aluma) corning to aae game. Wiling to pay big bucks to aae NO crush MSU. Call John at 3451. 
................................................................ 
Will trade 2 MSU, BAMA or NAVY GAs for 2 BC GAs. 239-6546 before 5 
NEED 5 MSU GA'S OR l;TUDENT TIXI Call JANE 283-4220, or KATHY 3607 
YO, CHECK ME OUT! GOT TIX FOR MOST HOME GAMES CALL KEN ANYTIME X1376 
URGENTLY NEED FOUR TIX FORMIC­HIGANSTATEONSEPT.19AND FOUR TIX FOR ALABAMA GAME ON NOV. 
14. ALUMNI GRANDFATHER WANTS THREE GRANDSONS TO SEE VIC· TORIES. CALL COLLECT JACK HOWE, 312-696-0810 EVENINGS ONLY. 
DESPERATE FOR 2 MSU STUD TIX. KEVIN 271-0579. 
NEED 4 BC GA'S! CALL LISA 2720 
MSU Need two Michigan State GAs. Call Max at 283-1542 or 283-1543. Go forth and Go lrlshl 
I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME. CALL HERNAN 271-0457 
HELPI NEED 2 BC OR 'BAMA GA'S DESPERATELY! CHRIS AT 1065 
Dear Student: Expecting a lot of homework for the MSU weekend? I'll pay you UP TO $100 for your 1 student or GA ticket. PLEASE CALL GUS AT x3641 
or x3630 

HELPIIIII Parents, little brother & little sister coming across water all the way from Puerto Rico to see NAVY game Need 4 Tickets. Call Gil at 277-7261 
I NEED 4 BC GA'S CALL ROSS X1741 
Need 2 Mlch State GAs Pay SS or will trade 2 USC GAs. Call Andy at 3074 or 3072. 
I need two MSU GA's. My life depends on it. Save my life and You will be rewarded. Will beat your best offer. Call Harry at 1398. 
Hey Y'alll I need 'Barna GA's. I can trade BC GA's or pay cash. Cell Marla at 4559 or 2698. 
She's tan, blond, & coming all the way from Calif. to see NO beat Mich. State­but she needs a ticket! GA or student. Call Susan 1511. 
I MUST GET 4 MICH ST GA TIX-$45 PLUS HELP AMY £2574! 
Need MSU tix! 1 Stud and 2 GAs Call Kevin 271-9479 $$$ 
NEED 2 USC GA'S FOR PARENTS CALL ANGIE 3829 
Need 2 or 4 MSU GA'sl!! Call Lisa at 4588. 
Need Boston College GA's --will pay$$!! Call4302. 
Need 2-4 Penn State tix Need 4 Pitt tix HAVE 4 MSU tix and HAVE 4 Alabama tix. Wanl to trade? Call AMY at 4525 or 4530. 
SIX VOLUPTUOUS WOMEN ARE WILL­ING TO SELL THEIR BODIES FOR PURDUE TIX. CALL 257611 
WANTEDII4 STUD. TIX FOR MICH.ST. GAME, WILL PAY BIG $$$$..CALL ANDY AT 1968 
i..N.iiiio.<3'A·s·:ra··;:cc·;:;oM·ii..i3:A:t.:ies 
PLEASE CALL 1373 ASK FOR TODD OR LEAVE MESSAGE 
i·ii;;.vii·4·N';;.w:·2·ac:·aR··2·;;.u.·a:.\M:.\ 
GAs TO TRADE FOR 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs, OR I'LL PAY CASH. DEBRA 3850 
·····v;;i·ti·-;;~d~·:;·t.i;;.w·"G;:·;~;-2..i.'isc····· 
Call Mike 2204 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WAKE UPI 
OMO-ouooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo000000,,000000000, 000000 
FOR THE BEST IN MUSICAL ENTER· TAINMENT CALL 
ENTERTAINMENT UNLIMITED 
THE PROFESSIONAL DISC JOCKEY SERVICE ASK FOR BRIAN 2743 OR 271-0754 
PIECES OF A DREAM PIECES OF A DREAM PERFORMING SATURDAY 9:00PM STEPAN CENTER AFTER SET DANCE, 11 :00·2:00 TICKETS AT THE CELLAR, $3.00 AD­VANCE,$4.00 AT THE DOOR OR CALL BCAC 239-£841 
NEED MSU and USC TICKETS call carolyn x3872 
WANTED: MICH ST TIX. PLEASE CALL 284-4329 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR MICH STATE. CALL MEL, 2658, EVENINGS. 
Need ride to Michigan game. Call Robert at 287-6939 
Logan Volunteers! First Bowling Today! Flr1t Rec tomor· rowI Nll'SMC Council for the Retarded 
FOR RENT -Male SYR date Experi­enced,Cheap Good lor up to 2 hours Fun time lor all Call 4159-M. 
Sheep.-3169 

RIGHT TO LIFE 
Sun. 7:00pm 
First meeting lor all members Montgomery Rm LaFortune 
DESPERATE !II 
need MSU TICKET! STUDENT or GAl call christy x3690 
MIGHIGAN ST. TIX!I IF YOU HAVE THEM, I NEED THEM. PLEASE II! CALL MONICA AT 4238. 
A FEW PLACES STILL AVAILABLE IN KAPLAN 10-17 LSAT COURSE, 2ND SECTION. CALL 272-4135 TODAYI 
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame I St. Mary's CoJiege (GLND'SMC) invites in­terested members of the community to contact our organ ization for further in­formation at P.O. Box 194; Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality guaranteed. 
THE DENNY LEE SHOW 
ILLUSIONS 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 12:00 TEASER 1:00 MAGIC WORKSHOP 5:00 MAIN PERFORMANCE LAFORTUNE MAIN LOBBY 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITION OF JIM Must be articulate, forward looking, and successful. Must enJoy airheads named Bambi. Must be able to exploit women and want only one thing out of a relationship. Send resumes to the fake Jim. 
Tom Tennant from Tulsal Happy Birthday! Everyone I Party tonite at 9:00 
Sept. 12, 1969 New Haven Sept. 12, 1987 Notre Dame You've gone a long way, baby ... Happy 18th Birthday Amy 
Love And A MicroWave, 
The Kensington 3(¢4) 

JULIE BRADLEY: HAl I BET YOU THOUGHTTHATYOUR AD WOULD BE IN ON YOUR BIRTHDAY. HOW WRONG YOU WEREI HAVE A GREAT 19TH BIRTHDAY. TRY TO REMEMBER IT IF YOU CAN. ALTHOUGH WHAT I'D REALLY LIKE TO DO IS SMASH YOUR FACE AGAINST THE BLACKBOARDIII MEMORIES IN THE CORNERS OF OUR MINDS. YOUR FRIEND, KATHY 
P.S. THANKS FOR ALWAYS BEING THERE. 
••••••••••MARK ERPELDING••••••••" HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAYIII I SAID I WOULDNT FORGET. 
Dave: Happy BLAH-day Sat. P & J 
MIKE DEBOT WHIP ME, BEAT ME, TEACH ME LOVE FOR PASSION'S GAMES NEED WHIPS AND CHAINS ALL BLACK AND BLUE FOR YOU (MOAN-GROAN) 
AIMLESS,WHEN ARE U GOING TO VALIDATE YOUR CLARK CARD NUM· BER? BEAN & HO 
MARK T. DO YOU REALLY RESEMBLE DAVID I? 
Elizabeth Thanka for the rose Ill love ya, Bubbe 
TO DICK, MY VERY OWN MAGNUM P.l., Your personal brought tears lo my eyes. and a throb to my heart that only the sight of you can put to rest. I am happy here, bull need to see you, I want to see yo, WHEN CAN I SEE YOU??!! YOUR PASSIONATE PETUNIA, Jane 
JANE,JANE,JANE, I AM COMING, I AM COMING, I AM COMING NOWI OUR EYES WILL FINALLY MEET AGAIN ON SATURDAY AT THE FOOTBALL GAME IN ANN ARBOR. I'M COUNTING THE SECONDS! YOUR ONE AND ONLY, DICK 
Honeybunny Beware of freshman wor­ship services and take some Russian classes. What about 23, 29, and 3?? Dreimal darfst du raten! Happy arbitrary anniversary and the answer is "Yes!" Ti amo Die Katze 
Brian M .. Happy 19lhl Wait we got some­thing for you .... here it isl THE GANG 
Happy Birthday Jeanine COOK. 397 LeMans. Have funl Love, John, Coli, Megan, Michael 
............................................................. 
EE -Have a great time at U of M !! Friday I'll be at the wedding and Saturday in Chicago with family friends. You'll hear from me when I get back whether you wanl to or not. but not at your Iron! door at midnight. More like 3:00 A.M. on a bullhorn or something .... BA 
TO THE DOMER WHO WAS LIMPING AWAY FROM GRACE'S FIRE DRILL ON WED. 9 AT 8:30 PM. IF INTERESTED IN THE GIRL WHO MISTOOK YOU AS SCHMIDY PLEASE CALL 284-4412. 
ELLEN ALWAYS SAYS YES CZTK 
ROB GRAHEK ... THIS IS YOUR FIRST PERSONAL FROM AN "OBSERVER TYPE" HAVE A WONDERFUL AND FULFILL­ING WEEKEND. 
Sandy, Where have all the nice girls gone? Better yet, where are all the right girls? 

-Mark 
Mary Virginia, Ahh, come on. You'll always be number 1 in my heart. 

-Mark 
...................................~ ............................ 

To Kathy, Pete, Paul, Scott, Karen, Rick, Ann, Jim, Chris, Mike Tim, and everyone else who worked late Wednesday night, Thanks for going above and beyond the call of duty. The nightmare is over. 
-Kevin and Mark 
Life is glowing inside you and me Please take my hand, here where I stand Won't you come out and dance w~h me. YOU BRING ME A HIGHER LOVE. HAPPY ANNIVERSARYIIII I LOVE YOU, LAURA. JIM 
HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY, AMY From Jimmy & Sem 
................................................................ 

WHOEVER SENT ME FLOWERS: PLEASE let me know who you are! 1 would really like to thank you. "Just because..." 
--Laura 
"IriSh Extra, Irish Extrs" 
WANTED: Roommate. Ours is leaving for the weekend and we need one to fill bunk. Must be female, have an award­winning body, and be able to buy beer. Please call 2921 for .., inlervlew. 

----~­
Friday, September 11, 1987 
The OQ8erver page 11 

Sports Briefs 
The Sailing Club will be offering sailing lessons for all expe­rience levels this fall at 3:30 p.m. Mondays, 4 p.m. Tuesdays (beginning this week), and 4 p.m. Thursdays (beginning next week). Dues must be paid at or before your first lesson. -The Observer 
The Racquetball Club is forming a league for all interested players. Participants will play one match a week, starting in about two weeks. For more information, call Dave (1425) or Mark (1422). -The Ob­
server 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
looking for its first victory over the Hoosiers. In those meetings Indiana has come away with nine victories, while the Irish have managed to score in only two of those contests. 
Last season's squad had the best chance yet to beat Indiana, entering the game with a 3-0 record. But the Hoosiers in­
timidated  the  Irish  players,  
handing  them  a  2-0  loss  at  
Bloomington.  

"The last two years we would 
TheSailingCiubwillbehosting the Notre Dame Intersectional Regatta Saturday and Sunday at· Diamond Lake in Michigan. The 19 visiting teams include Michigan, Purdue, Ohio State and the U.S. Naval Academy. For directions or information, call Pete Wall at 1787 or Mark Ryan at 3024. -The Observer 
The Bicycle Club now has applications for the Turning Leaves Century bicycle tour on Sunday Oc­tober 4. Call Robert Kobayashi at 1668 and leave your name and ad­dress for an application. There are also daily rides from the Bus Stop at 
4 p.m. -The Observer 

get psyched for Indiana," said junior midfielder Joe Sternberg, "but in the game we would back down." 
Sternberg is the leader at midfield for the Irish, known for his steady, mistake-free play. But it was against In­diana last season when he made one of those rare mis­takes. He gave up the ball in his own penalty area to In­diana's Chris Keenan, who passed it to John Johnson for a goal. 
This year will be different, Sternberg predicts. ''This time we have the tal­ent," h~ says. "We're playing 
Become 



ARax 
Preferred 
Customer 
PRESENT YOUR ND.IST MARY'S 
I.D. TO OUR CASHIER AND RECEIVE A TEN PERCE~T DISCOUNT 
US 33 NORTH STORE ONLY OFFER ENDS lz.-3];87 
~ 

M.\.T RlOQWilll ~TYU. liM~ <lilt• I II< II Yollod wtllo ""'¥ t/fht'f I ttUf""" IH If<~ ttunl~ '"'''' 1.1" I loo~rl(••d "'"'It' 4j'!IIU ,ohio• 
The Windsurfing Club willThe Women's Soccer team 
be giving lessons to all members orlost, 4-3, at Wheaton College Wednes­potential members at St. Joe's Beach day. Teresa Sheppard, Kate Titter­from Monday, September 14, toton and Michele Richards scored the 
Friday, September 18. Any ques­Notre Dame goals. The first home tions, call Carter at 1723. -The Ob­game is Sunday against Marquette 
server
at 11:30 a.m. on Stepan Field. -The Observer 
In major lea~ue baseball Thursday, the Oakland A's nipped the Kansas City Royals, 3-2, the San The Squash Club will hold a Diego Padres edged the Houstonclinic for beginnners at the ACC this 
Astros, 8-7, the Boston Red SoxSaturday. All those interested are to slipped past the Baltimore Orioles,report to court A at 2 p.m. Direct 5-4, and the Milwaukee Brewersquestions to Allan Lim at 3211 or nicked the Detroit Tigers, 4-3. ­Philip Lau at 1982. -The Observer 
with a lot of confidence. I don't think we're going to back down this time." 
Johnson, Keenan and Rod Castro, the three top scorers for Indiana last season, all have graduated. Nonetheless the Hoosiers are looking as tough as ever. Indiana "suf­fered" through a 9-6-4 record in 1986, far below the standard of past Yeagely teams, so Yeagely has recruited a very talented freshman class which includes four high school all­Americans. 
Junior forward Pete Stoyanovich is the top return­ing scorer, collecting six goals in 14 games. Stoyanovich also happens to be the placekicker for the Indiana football squad. 
With four starters graduated from the midfield and back pos­itions, Yeagley has shuffled his lineup around and has started three freshmen. Freshman Ken Snow connected for both goals in the Hoosiers 2-1 victory over sixth-ranked Southern Methodist in the Ad-
Associated Press 
didasMetropolitan Life Classic 
at Bloomington. 
Depending on the results of tonight's Indiana-Michigan State match at Bloomington, the Hoosiers will come to South Bend with either a winning or losing record. Indiana lost to second-ranked South Carolina in the first game of the tourn­ament, 3-1, before edging the Mustangs. 
Thanks to the Labor Day holiday, no poll was taken for the Great Lakes region, meaning Indiana remains the fourth-ranked team in the region behind Akron, Evansville and Marquette. The Irish are ranked lOth. 
Although the Hoosiers ap­pear to be back on the winning track, they gradually have been changing their attitude toward Notre Dame. The coaches have been very inter­ested in Notre Dame's progress this season, noting such things · as the scoring outburst by for­ward Randy Morris and the· general progress of the team. 

~-Queen's Castle 
NSJJ ,.,........... Across from Martin's. IN ROYAL PLAZA 23 
TANNING BED SPECIAL 
for ND or Saint Mary's students Unlimited tanning, one month 
WoK Tanning Bulbs

$25 
Facial Tannar 

must make appointments at time of purchase 

Formerly Giannetto's 
Friday Special­$1 OFF Pizza 
Featuring our delicious Pizza, I Sandwiches, Dinners, Vegetarian Foods, and Baklava. 
I 
Beer and Wine served. 
234-3541 
5pm-11pm Monday-Saturday Dine In or Carry Out 
744 N. Notre Dame 
CUII23 
Large Groups & Clubs._WI~el~c-om-e

------•.'illiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiil1 

The Indiana coaches can't 
like what they've heard. The 
Irish ran their record to 4-0 
with two victories over Detroit 
and Western Michigan. The 7-1 
shelacking of Titans was espe­
cially satisfying for the team. 
"We were coming off the first two games where they could have easily been losses," said Grace. "We just took it out on them. We could have very easily scored in double digits ­we missed more scoring chances than we scored." 
Despite shutting out the Broncos in Wednesday's 2-0 victory, Grace was not happy with the team's performance and takes the blame himself. 
"Western Michigan had the better of us for a while," said Grace. "We just weren't prepared for the artificial turf. I thought we were going to play on grass, so I didn't get the team ready. I'll take the blame for that." 
The turf also helped to create a boring game as the ball kept rolling out of bounds. Only six shots were taken the entire game by both teams. 
So once again the Irish enter the Indiana match with a spot­less record. A big match this early in the season can dictate the rest of the year. But can the Irish also change the course of the series with Indiana? Grace is optimistic. 
"I expect to give IU every­thing they can handle," said Grace. "I feel good about Sun-­day. IU will play well, and we will too. But I'll tell you, the kids really have a lot of confi­dence." 
Sa' tit . 1nt Mary~ Col~  
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA  
1987-88 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES PRESENTS THE INDIANAPOLIS BALLET 1HEATRE ~ TONIGHT, SFJ"''F.MBEElll 8:00P.M. O'LAUGIWN AUDITOIUUM SAINT IIAITSCOWGE TICKETS: 17.10, $6.50, ~-~ $1.08 olf wldl lhlleat J.D. Too...,. a,...._:~ Yila, ..... acaplell  


---·~-----~~-~ 
Friday, September 11, 1987
page 12 The Observer 


Edberg 1n sem1s 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Second-seeded 

Stefan Edberg used a blistering 
serve-and-volley attack to 
overpower unseeded Rarnesh 
Krishnan 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 Thursday 
and move into the semifinals of 
the U.S. Open tennis champion­
ships for the second straight 
year. 
Krishnan's finesse game was 

no match for Edberg's assault. 
"Right from the beginning, 

he was all over me," said 
Krishnan, the last unseeded 
player left in singles play. 
"We were always fighting it 

out on my serve. I thought I 
was very well prepared. I 
played the way I wanted to, but 
I thought he was a little bit 
quicker on the court." 
Edberg needed five sets to 

beat Krishnan in the third 
round at last year's Open. 
"I think I've improved as a 

player since then," the 21-year­
old Swede said. "I started off 
Guignon 
continued from page 16 
freshman year. And by the 
time he graduates, I am confi­
dent that he will be one of the 
best players in the country." 
Guignon assumed the role of 

stopper his sophomore season, 
starting all 22 games and corn­
piling 15 points on five goals 
and five assists. He was also a 
leader on the defense which al­
lowed only 1.14 goals a game. 
"The team really responds 

when Johnny has something to 
say," added Grace. "He's a 
good soccer player and has a 
good soccer mind. But I think 
that his work ethic, attitude 
and his character are his 
greatest points.'' 
Guignon enjoys his position 

as junior captain this season, 
but he is quick to add that the 
team as a whole is more im­
portant than any individual. 

WANTED USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
213-422-2812 
~yAM OR t:VI!NINQS 



AIM HIGH 

t 
GET ON THE TRACK

I I 
TOA 

I 
SCHOLARSHIP

I. l 
An Air Force ROTC scholarship may get you on the right track to success. Find out if you qualify for tuition and other expenses, plus $100 each academic month. Get on the right track. Talk to: 
Aor Force ROTC Ph. 239·6634 

very well today. I didn't give him anything." 
The highlight of the match was the 24-rninute, 38-point third game of the second set. Krishnan had seven game points, but Edberg ended up winning the game to take a 3-0 lead, 
Krishnan, ranked 42nd in the world, said he was pleased with his showing in the tournament. 
"Even today I felt I was well prepared," the 26-year-old In­dian said. "I _just got out­played." 
Edberg, who lost to Ivan Lendl in last year's semifinals, will play the winner of Thursday night's Miloslav Mecir-Mats Wilander match on Saturday. 
Mecir, the No. 5 seed, holds a 4-3 lifetime edge over Ed­berg. 
"I lost to him at Key Bis­cayne, but I beat him three: times in a row before that,'' Ed­berg said. 
"I like being captain," said Guignon, "but a part of me still wants to be a normal player. 
"Last year was really an ex­perience for me. Jim Flynn was one of the best captains. He kept everyone together, even those who don't play a lot. That's what I look forward to, you can't just look out for your­self-you have to always think of the team first." 
Guignon is looking forward to a tough but successful season for the team. 
"We have a tough schedule but I think we can beat some 
Stefan Edberg of Sweden breezed past unseeded Ramesh Krishnan, 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 on Thursday to advance to the semi-finals of the 
of the teams we didn't beat last "Johnny is not only a great year. We have some really team player," said teammate good freshmen on the team this Pat Murphy, "but one that year. I think we can get higher everyone, especially the young in our division this year. But I players, look up to. He has a want to make sure we never positive attitude and is always lose our fighting edge." willing to pick the team up if 
Guignon and fellow captain they're not up to par." -steve Lowney are hoping to Murphy and Guignon first guide the Irish to victory in met in St. Louis when both Sunday's game against In-played for the Liebe socccer 
diana. But according to Guig-,...;;.-----------------------. 
non, the biggest challenge and the most important victory of 
the season will be to keep the i~!i:.rs working together as a 

FRESHMEN 
and 
Tuesday, September 15, I 0:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Church
TING ON THE EAST CE
\\ .
,

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1987 
) BUSES LEAVE '\. 
N.D. MAIN CIRCLE AT 9:00, 9:30, 10:00 A.M. EAST RACE AT 11:30 A.M., NOON 
~  
AVAILABLE  AT  FRESHMAN  YEAR  
STUDIES OFFICE  
NO CHARGE  

club during the off-season. Murphy played on Creighton's soccer team until the program was dropped after his fresh­man year. It was Guignon that encouraged Murphy to con­sider transferring to Notre Dame. 
:'Johnny sold the program to me," added Murphy, "I'm thankful to him for that.'' 
Workshops for NEW Eucharist
Ministers Sunday, September 13, 2:30 p.m. 

orkshop for RETURNING Eucharis­
tic Ministers Tuesday, September 15, 8:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Church 
The diocese requires participation in one of these workshops in order to serve the assembly as 
a 

eucharistic minister. 
'50s Party and Sock Hop 
Join us at The Snlte Museum of Art 
Celebrate the decade, 1946-1955, 
with a '50s Party and Sock Hop 
Friday, September 11, 1987 
View the exhibition, dance to 
music of the '50s·and enjoy 
refreshments from 8-11 p.m. 
Admission free 
Sponsored by Pat and Art Declo, The Friends of The Snlte Museum of Art, and The Student Ualson Committee of The Snlte Museum of Art 
THE SNIT£ MUSEUM OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
The Observer page 13 

Strike won't stop season 

TI advanced scientifics have all the right engineering and science functions to help you function better in school. When we set out to make our most 
advanced scientific calculators, we gave a lot of thought to what your 
see us is a good sign," said Dan Rooney, president of the Pit­tsburgh Steelers and another executive committee member. "I believe that Gene doesn't want a strike." 
Donlan said that 19 of the 28 teams had already signed players for use in the event of a strike. And while he said he wasn't preoccupied with that issue -"I want to find a settle­ment," he said-he felt the union had forced the owners' hand. 
Some teams gave players who were cut a $1,000 retainer to be available should they be needed in the event of a strike. 
A small number of roster players have said they prob­ably would play even if their teammates struck-among them San Francisco 49ers quarterback Joe Montana and New York Jets running back Freeman McNeil. 
Associated Press 
SCHAUMBURG, 11.-NFL owners voted unanimously Thursday to continue the season even if the players strike, using already discarded free agents and "whatever players are available to play." 
At the same time, however, Jack Donlan, executive direc­tor of the Managment Council, announced that negotiations with the NFL players Associa­tion will resume Saturday at a site still to be determined. 
He also disclosed that Gene Upshaw, executive director of the NFLPA, had met Wednes­day night with Commissioner Pete Rozelle and flew to Chicago Thursday morning to meet with the Management Council's executive commmit­tee. 
The two sides have met for just 4 l!2 hours since Aug. 14. Talks on Sept. 2 were broken off over the issue of protection for player representatives. The contract expired Aug. 31 and the players have voted to strike Sept. 22, after the second week of the season, unless substan­
tial progress is made toward resolution of the dispute. The major issue remains free agency. 
The players are seeking a system that would allow players to move from team to team without any kind of com­pensation or right of first refusal. 
The owners are willing only to liberalize the current sys­tem, which requires a team sig­ning a free agent to provide compensation. Just one player in 10 years has changed teams under that system. 
None of the owners present would characterize the meeting with Upshaw or dis­cuss Upshaw's meeting with Rozelle, who was not present at Thursday's session. 
But Hugh Culverhouse, owner of the Tampa Bay Buc­caneers and the chairman of the Management Council's ex­ecutive committee, termed Up­shaw's presence "worthwhile." 
"I'm the eternal optimist," he added. "I think the fact that Gene took the time to come here and 

The Observet:o&lsy Hernandez ller this week. Also pictured are Mary McCarthy (8), Tammy Suth 
(11) and Patti Knoebel (10). 
after splitting two matches ear-
SMC volleyball splits pair 

Granger Shell SA 23 & Fir Rd. Presents its New 24 inch Giant Deli Sandwich 


THE GAME BREAKER $9.99 with coupon • It could bring out the 6'5" 2801b. a etite in anybody 

~--------------~--~------------------------·­






tosctence. 
rh.. T/-60 /uncwm., md11Je 
The Tl-65/uls ull rhc hnaJecnnul/,,ll<lfc,mwr.\lilll.\ .' Tl-60 [wtcri<~n.\, flllls u mr<·gnlll<~n ll.llll!,' Simfmm's r11k srupmuchlllmer ji1r luh 11mk. 1!<111\CIL"~ (mdt«img lmeur regres­e1ghr phys1cul cunsrunr.1 for liS<' lllltd. rrenJ line un<1h.1i1 anJ m rhermoJ;mam1cs <1nJ mern,· 111 Englr.1h c<~nwniun.l. phvsics as u·ell as Decision );m can flTII~'T<IIn H4 Sl<'fls. Programmmg .-ap<lhiliric.l. 
\/111 can prugr<1m IL1Clsrefls. 

By LISA JUSCIK Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team won one game and lost the other when they traveled to Hope College on Wednesday to compete in a tri-meet against Mundelein College and Hope College. 
The Belles defeated Mun­delein, 6-15, 15-10 and 15-9, while they lost to Hope College, 17-15, 10-15 and 6-15. 
"It was a good way to start 
calculators from the folks who've given their brains to science. The Advanced Scientifics from Texas Instruments. 
""m TEXAS~ 
INSTRUMENlS 
science, math and engineering problems are. Then we designed our calculators around them. The result: the TI-60 and the new TI-65 are both packed with built-in functions. Plus, there are programming steps to spt•ed you through repetitive calcula­tions. But even though both can 
our season," said Coach Sue Meadley. "We played very well for our first two matches." 
In the first game against Mundelein, many players turned in outstanding perfor­mances. Patty Knoeble had eight kills and Margaret Feldman added seven. Melissa Phillips had 19 serve attempts with only one error. 
Depite the tremendous com­eback in the first set, 17-15, the Belles were defeated by Hope College in the next two sets by 
handle the hardest problems, they're easy to use. Large, color-coded keys and simple keyboard layouts mean you spend less time figuring out the calculator and more time figuring out your problems. 
So if you're the kind of student who's got science on the brain, get the 
the marrow margins of 10-15 and 6-15. 
Feldman provided 13 kills, Michelle Sibilsky had had two aces in nine service attempts, and Katie Killilea had seven kills, five service attempts and no errors. 
"We did things in these two matches that we didn't even do at the end of the season last year," said Meadley. 
The Belles will host Val­paraiso next Tuesday at 7 p.m. 

-~-------~-----~-------­
Maturity key for ND runners 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team travels to Wash­ington, D.C., for a dual meet against Georgetown on Satur­day. 
The 1986 season was a little disappointing for coach Joe Piane and his harriers. They had great potential yet never seemed to consistently live up to it. The highlights were a third-place finish in the Indiana 
Intercollegiates  and  a  fifth­ 
place  finish  in  the  National  
Catholic Meet.  

Maturity will be the big dif­ference this year. Piane will have all his top runners back along with a new crop of fresh­man. If the team can avoid in­juries and remain consistent, 1987 could be a banner year for the Irish. 
But that won't be easy. 

The Irish runners face one of their toughest schedules in years. After opening at Geor­getown, they return home for the National Catholic Meet and the Notre Dame Invitational. Then it's off to the Indiana In­tercollegiates, the NCAA Dis­trict IV Meet and possibly the NCAA Championships in Char­lottesville, Va. 
The Irish also have a dual meet against USC slated on the Burke Memorial Course. 
Besides overcoming this tough schedule, the Irish must also avoid the nagging injuries that plagued them all through last year. 
"Last year we had a lot of runners come into school with injuries," Piane said. "This year I think we've avoided that. Mike O'Connor is as healthy as ever. Mike Rogan is looking solid, and Ron Markezich is in the best condition of his life." 
O'Connor was the top Irish runner last year. Last season the sophomore placed first for the Irish in all but one race last season. 
''Georgetown will be a tough meet," O'Connor said. "I'm from New York and know a lot of people on the Georgetown team. If we avoid injuries we can win and go on to a great year." 
''I don't think O'Connor will be the first ND runner to finish all the meets this year," Piane said. "At least, I hope he's not. The key to a well-balanced team is to have six or seven different guys coming in as number one for the Irish in dif­ferent meets. That can make us a great team." 
The Irish captain this year is senior Dan Garrett. Garrett has been injury free and active all year. Piane and his harriers will look for help from the in­coming freshman, led by the promising Pat Kearns. 
Georgetown has one of the top Catholic cross country squads in the country. It won the Big East last year and set a world record in the distance medley relay. Piane knows the Irish face a tough foe. 
"Right now the two words to describe Georgetown are very good," Piane said." They have one of the top 800-meter teams in the country. Most of the run­ners fron Notre Dame were recruited by Georgetown, so there is a rivalry." 

The Observei1Jim Carroll 
a dual meet victory over Geor­getown this weekend. The wo­men's team will be competing in a meet In Detroit. 


ATTENTION SENIORS: 
THE LOCATION FOR 
SENIOR PORTRAITS HAS 
BEEN CHANGED 10 THE 
NEW ORLEANS ROOM-­1ST FLOOR LA FORTUNE. 
If you missed signups see 
the secretary at the information 
desk outside of the New Orleans 
Room between 12:00 & 8:00 pm. 

Tonight! • Open 8-2 
Playing your favorites (rom 8-10 Tflt;N 10pm-2am DJ 
Saturday .. Open 8-2 campus DJ -10-2 
Sunday-Open 12·6 
Watch the football games with some nachos or subs. 
Friday, September 11 , 1987 
Irish women head for Detroit 
By TIM SULLIVAN Saturday with her team-best Sports Writer finish. 
"Terry Rice is one of the 
The revenge factor is what most talented runners on the 
women's cross-country coach team, and I was just trying to 
Dan Ryan and his harriers will stay with her," she said. "I 
be counting on Saturday when wound up having a good day." 
they travel to Detroit for the Ryan had another pleasant 
Titans' annual invitational surprise in the performance of 
meet. Ledrick, his prime freshman 
The Irish will be looking for prospect. The Michigan state 
their first victory of the young high school two-mile champion 
season, as they take on five has adjusted extremely well to 
other squads Detroit, college training and is ahead of 
Cleveland State and a trio of schedule for a frosh runner. 
junior college teams. 

"She'll be coming on even 
Notre Dame and defending stronger," Ryan commented. 
Midwestern Collegiate Confer-"She's still recovering from an 
ence champion Detroit are ex-infection which slowed her 
pected to battle for the title. training earlier in the sum-
And that's where the revenge mer." 
factor comes in to play. Although Detroit is foremost 
In a dual meet last season, on Ryan's mind, he is not 
the Titans took the second taking the rest of the competi­
through sixth-place slots on tion lightly. 
their way to a rout of the Irish. "Cleveland State is a confer­
• ence opponent, so facing them 
"We really thought we could will be important," he said. 
have won that meet," noted "And Malcomb Junior College 
Irish junior Terry Kibelstis. is the defending Division II na­
"We lost miserably. I think we tional champion. They· both 
can beat Detroit (on Saturday), have strong runners." 
and just being competitive with Ryan knows his runners 
them will be an accomplish-must not let Detroit repeat last 
ment." year's performance. To avoid 
In order to win the meet, the that, he will count on his 
Irish will need continued strong squad's depth to break up 
performances from Kibelstis Detroit's "pack-running" 
(the top Notre Dame finisher style. 
in last weekend's Purdue Tri-"We need a front-runner, and 
angular), junior Terry Rice our two through five runners 
and freshman surprise Jen must break through their 
Ledrick. . pack," Ryan said. "If we do 
Kibelstis surprised herself on that, we can win this meet." 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
JACKIE LABOE! 
Love, 
"ELECTRIC EDIE" 

Tom, Abe, Alex, Andy Chris, Bob, Jay, 

·' 



Campus 
Friday 12:15-1:00 p.m.: Friday Forum for faculty and staff, "Sanctuary and the 
New Immigration Law" by Prof. Rich­ard Boswell (Law), Room 124, Center for Social Concerns. 
4:00p.m.: Field Hockey ND vs. Kent State, Cartier Field. 
4:30-6:30p.m.: International Stu­dent Organization picnic, Holy Cross House. 
7:30p.m. & 9:30p.m.: Notre Dame Communications and Theatre Film, "Mona Lisa," directed by Neil Jordan, Great Britain, Annenberg Auditorium. 
8:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m.: The Snite Museum of Art '50s Party and Sock Hop, free, sponsors: Pat and Art Decio, The Friends of the Snite Museum, and The Student Liason Committee of The Snite Museum of Art. 
8:00p.m.: SMC Performing Arts Se­ries, Indianapolis Ballet Theatre, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Garden Salad Sandwich 
Oven Fried Chicken French Bread Pizza Fish Nuggets 

Comics 
Bloom County 
OltVC~?. I flON'f wwe us 
77) YOIJR PMT I THt MO/Jff?N WORi.fl 19 ~INY... 81/r lf'J llt.SO COUl / Ht:r<e .• MY H€UO W meaN£ YOIJ HIIV€ttr St£N FOf( 
1/WHU... 
I 

Beernuts 
~DTRIP!! -®ltllADOtll: 
ANN MBoR(oR Ra.JmVELY 
ClDSE)-CAR: I'!fiG Y<XiO GV CCNTHJT~: 12. f\Urv<,QV£ R GlJ'(S AND L01) Of llEO\:lllRMil 
. 

Saturday 
1:00 
p.m.: Tennis NDW vs. Northern Illinois, Courtney Courts. 

1:00 
p.m.: Soccer SMC vs. Mar­quette University, SMC Soccer Field. 3:30p.m.: E.D.T. on ABC, Football ND vs. Michigan. 


7:00p.m.: Chinese Association Film "That Day on the Beach," Library Auditorium. Sunday 
ll:OOa.m.: SoccerSMCvs. Wooster, SMC Soccer Field. 
1:00 p.m.: Soccer ND vs. Indiana, Cartier Field. 
2:00p.m.: Snite Museum Tour, 45­minute tour with a Snite museum staff assistant for an overview of the exhibit "Life: The Second Decade, 1946-1955," O'Shaughnessy Gallery. 
3:00p.m.-5:00p.m.: Friends of the Library Presentation of "Columbus and His Followers" by Alan Krieger and Rafael Tarrago, Library Lounge. 
4:00p.m.: UniversityofNotreDame Dept. of Music, Laurien Laufman ­Guest Cello Recital, Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art. 
Saint Mary's French Dip Sandwich Italian Macaroni and Cheese Fish Parisienne Deli Bar 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Family member 5 Horse's hoof sound 9 Indian 
grooms: var. 14 Monad 15 Fissure 16 Vagabond 17 Shelter 18 Arab chieftain 19 Belg. marble 20 Ocarina 23 Sandra or 
Ruby 24 Discern 25 Approved 27 Urgency 30 Bestow 33 Old Fr. coin 34 Jabs 35 Band 
Instrument 38 Jason's ship 40 Textile fiber 41 Distant 42 Chaffer 43 States: Fr. 44 Comic 
Conway 45 Causes 47 Delicious 49 Maximally 51 Auricle 52 Extinct bird 53 Climbing 
shrub 60 Push 62 In -(bored 

by routine) 63 Circle 64 Cuban dance 65 Farm structure 66 She: Fr. 67 Show 
contempt 68 Uriah ­69 Breathing 
sound 
DOWN 1 Applies 2 Fresh 3 Douglas fir 4 Certify 5 Crinkled fabric 
Berke Breathed 
.. MYOUJ YOI/'1/E ~ME/? St.lfl€ 50... !?!5TIINT RIJU. tllf€t.Y. 
\ ) 
Mark Williams 
RCIIDTRf~; BRill!£ 5011[­

II[Y/ WI/lTV?! 
T/1'10 TH[ ONL:t WAY TO flAil£ RJN AT MJTR£ ~ME
I 
IS TO LEAVE' FOR. THE WEEKEND. 

-© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
6 Ritzy auto 7 Leave out 8 Kind of rubber 9 Caress 
10 Mr. Levin 11 Garden plants 12 Host 13 Haste 21 Kind of shirt 22 Hurls 26 Rectangular 
pilaster 27 Noodle 28 Land measure 29 Tree 30 City near 
Florence ­31 Kind of candle 32 Revises 34 Quickly! 36 Fishing need 37 Defense group 39 Spread 46 Building stone 47 Gr. letter 48 Bowman 49 Wrong 

1.!::::=:::::!:::~~==~====:~ 
09111187 

50 "Man's 55 Where Perry Inhumanity won -" (Burns) 56 Christmas 
51 Bar 57 Caffeln source legally 58 Recline 
54 Poet 59 Fencing .sword Ogden 61 Wind dlr. 
Far Side Gary Larson 
Young Victor Frankenstein stays after school. 
Tonight & Saturday 
7,9 & 11 
FREE admission 
Cushing Auditorium Monday, September 14 7·00pm 
$2.00

Notre Dame Room-2nd Floor Lafortune No food or drink allowed. 
~--=--~---_-~"--_-_------_-__---_-­
' • pagejS 


Sports 
Friday, September 11, 1987 

Irish soccer faces Hoosiers at Krause 
ND looks 
Guignon to break jinx leads squad 
By PETE GEGEN By KIM YURATOVAC Assistant Sports Editor Sports Writer 
For the small minority of stu­John Guignon is one of those dents not heading up to Mic­people that doesn't go un­higan this weekend, there is a noticed around campus. very good reason to stay on The 6-2 redhead is the co­campus. captain of the Irish soccer team 
Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. who started in each of last at Krause Stadium the Irish season's 22 games. But he is soccer team faces traditional probably best known for his powerhouse Indiana in what outgoing personality. could be one of the best soccer "Johnny Guignon is an effer­matches in Notre Dame his­vescent personality who is an tory. integral part of the team," says
The Hoosiers always have Irish head coach Dennis Grace. 
commanded respect in the Guignon has been playingranks of college soccer. Head soccer since the first grade,Coach Jerry Yeagley has been eventually becoming an all­the team's only head coach, metro player for St. Louis 
leading Indiana to two NCAA University High. He earned a championships and a career starting spot on the Irish squad winning percentage of .832. his freshman year, although a 
On the other hand the Irish 

bout with mononucleosis lim­are an up-and-coming team. ited his season to 12 games. In Head Coach Dennis Grace those 12 games, however, Guig­
played for Yeagley's squad in non scored three goals and 1975, and since coming to Notre added an assist from his defen­
Dame has had visions of put­sive position of wingback.
ting Notre Dame soccer on the "He came in when Notre 
map, much .the same way his Dame was playing the number­alma mater is. 
one teams in the country,'' says These facts establish the im­Grace. "He was a good player
The Observei1Greg Kohs
portance of this match, as does out of St. Louis who faced some 
the fact that Notre Dame is still Junior mldfielder Joe Sternberg, who scored his hot streak when the Irish host powerful In­
of the toughest opponents his 
two goals In both the Detroit and Western Mic­diana on Sunday.
see IRISH, page 11 see GUIGNON, page 12higan games earlier this week, looks to continue 

Depth, freshmen help women's tennis team 
By STEVE MEGARGEE singles player for the Irish. much more experienced squad. sixth-seeded Resa Kelly. Loh­
come back much more men­Sports Writer Then there's Kim Pacella, "The entire team was on a rer competed in the lOth Pan tally tough." another freshman with tourna­specific training program over American Games at In­The new recruits and the im­You could expect Notre ment experience who has the summer, and that has dianapolis over the summer. provement of every playerDame women's tennis coach stepped into the starting lineup really helped our performance "She (Lohrer) is stronger, 
leaves several experiencedMichele Gelfman to be excited for the Irish, currently as the on the court," said Gelfman. quicker, lighter, and she is players fighting for court time. 
about the season when you hear fifth-seeded singles player. "It's much more competitive really coming into her own in "Because of our superiorabout the team's freshman But that's not the only thing within the lineup, and we have her game," said Gelfman. recruiting year, Kelly and class. that has Gelfman excited. a tremendous amount of "She has an outstanding mid­(Natalie) Illig have been bat­
First, there's Ce Ce Cahill, a What impresses Gelfman is depth." 
court game, and she has tling it out with some of the new Hinsdale, Ill., native ranked that the returning players she Improvement particularly started to pull it all together. players," said Gelfman. "Julie 
among the top 10 in the .nation has, which last year made up can be seen in the team's soph­She came back ready to play. Sullivan was a walk-on when Iin the women's 18-year-old a freshman-dominated team, omore class, including second­"Stephanie Tolstedt set her first came, and her play hasbracket. Cahill already has have vastly improved over the seeded Stephanie Tolstedt, goals on coming back quicker 
see TENNIS, page 10
been slated as the top-seeded summer to give the Irish a fourth-seeded Alice Lohrer and and more consistent, and she's 
------------------------------------------~----------------------­
Does Holtz have cards up his sleeve? 
How do the Irish look? Which Somehow, Holtz' words seem to few cards up his sleeve. Anyone who looked at Peerless freshmen have come on this fall? Are belie him. At a scrimmage two Prognosticators last season knows there any injuries? Can we beat Mic­weeks ago, there was some confusion ••• what my record is when it comes to higan? Are we going to a bowl? Can as to whether or not the local media While Holtz' practices are some-picking outcomes of football games we win the National Championship 
(pure embarrassment prevents me this year? from printing my ,final percentage). 
Those are just a few of the ques­Dennis Nevertheless, like everyone else, I'll tions Irish fans around the country offer my prediction for this season. are asking and calling in to The Ob­Corrigan I'll say 7-4 with an outside shot at server. Up until last Friday, the 8-3.
Sports Editor 

answers were somewhat easy to an­In my mind, the toss-up game is swer (good, Ricky Watters and Tony Nov. 14 against Alabama. Both the Brooks at tailback, Chuck Lanza's would be admitted. They were, but what open to the media, a lot of Tide and the Irish suffered some key shoulder, if we get the breaks that shortly after the scrimmage started, coaches, including Michigan's Bo losses. That game looks even at this have eluded us the last few seasons, one of the student managers came Schembechler and Penn State's Joe early stage. A 7-4 record would get I hope so, anything is possible). But by and looked to see what each Paterno, keep their workouts closed Notre Dame into a bowl. There are last Friday, all that changed. reporter was writing and photog­from the first day. That's the reason a lot of bowls just waiting to get the That's when Irish head coach Lou raphers were asked not to take any there is so much uncertainty over Irish and the TV dollars they repre­
Holtz put his practices off limits to shots of formations. Following that who will start at quarterback for sent. the media. He did the same thing week, practice was sealed off. Michigan. Juniors Demetrius Brown last season, and the Irish totally con­and Michael Taylor are in the hunt ••• fused the Wolverines in the opener. If you recall the first drive of last for the starting nod. Schembechler, Holtz, though, says that won't be the year's opener, the Irish came out in true to form, isn't saying. Game of the Week -If you're case this year. a different formation on each play. To what lengths will coaches go to looking for action on campus this 
"There will be no surprise this They came at the Wolverines in get information on their opponents? weekend, Krause Stadium is where time," Irish head coach Lou Holtz every set imaginable. While no one The Michigan staff subscribes to The you'll find it. The Irish soccer team said of Saturday's game at Mic­is saying what the Irish did in last Observer. plays host to the Hoosiers of Indiana higan. "It'll be an old-fashioned foot­Friday's closed scrimmage, you can at 1 p.m. Sunday. Admission is free ball game." bet Holtz, the old magician, has a ••• to students with their ID. 





