
Chilly
IACCENT: Whitesnake concert review 
Variable cloudiness and a 
slight chance of afternoon 
showers today with an ex­
pected high in the lower 40s.

IVIEWPOINT: Learning about growing old 



VOL. XXI, NO. 48 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
·--... ,-4..............


Trustees to evaluate divestment policy 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Rev. Leon Sullivan that he was Senior Staff Reporter abandoning the Sullivan Prin­ciples, a set of fair employment Notre Dame's investment principles calling for total di­policy will be the most impor­vestment if apartheid is not dis­tant issue on the Board of Trus­mantled, "will be a cause for tee's agenda when it meets this a discussion," Williams noted. Friday, said Richard Conklin, The Principles have been director of public relations and widely followed by American information. businesses and universities, in­
The University is currently cluding Notre Dame, as following a policy of "selective guidelines for their policy divestment," said Father towards investment in South Oliver Williams, associate Africa. provost and member of the Uni­Sullivan also called for a total versity's ad hoc committee on economic embargo of South South African divestment. Africa at that time. 
"What that policy means is Williams talked with Sul­we'll not hold stocks in compan­livan before he made the an­ies with operations in South nouncement and told him, "I Africa if they are not in some just can't be as sure as he was way trying to undermine apar­that it would indeed help the theid," Williams explained. everyone's attention. 
The June announcement by see TRUSTEES, page 3 
CROP walk received over $1 ,200 from ND participants 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR News staff  the inter-dorm competition by raising $280, the greatest sum  and mentioned that Father Ed­· local charities, the Shelter for ward Malloy participated. the Homeless and the Food  creased awareness and partic­ipation.  
Notre Dame students and faculty raised over $1,200 to benefit the needy worldwide and in the South BendJMishawaka community in the fifth annual CROP walk held in St. Joseph County on Oct. 11, said Kathy Royer, co­ordinator for service-social ac­tion groups of the Center for Social Concerns. Flanner Hall placed first in  contributed by any one group, reported Royer. Sorin College came in second with $130 and Cavanaugh Hall finished third with $103. Furthermore, Royer noted that the freshman class contributed a $100 donation. Over a hundred Notre Dame students participated in the lOK walk, Royer said. She added that the Notre Dame fac­ulty was also well represented  Each dorm on campus was given the goal of sending 10 stu­dents to participate in the walk, said Renee Gau, SUB service concerns commissioner. Every dorm sent representatives, stated Gau, who estimated that each dorm had sent an average of eight students. Of all the money raised in St. Joseph County, Gau said, 30 percent will be split among two  Bank of Mishawaka. The remaining 70 percent will be contributed to the national fund to be distributed throughout the world in third world countries by the Church World Service in the comming year. Royer said that she is satisfied with the St. Joseph County and Notre Dame tur­nout, but hopes to raise more money next year through in- Gau cites the timing of this year's walk as possibly contri­buting to the unspectacular participation of the the Notre Dame Communtiy. She said that the walk which took place on the Sunday before what represented "midterm week" for mary students, might receive increased participation if held on a less academically rigorous weekend in the future.  

Hey ya' baby 
Parent and child browse in the periodicals at the Hesburgh library. However, the magazines don't hold 

Filming is uncertain 
who is producing the proj­By ERIC M. BERGAMO ect. She also declined com­
Senior Staff Reporter 
ment on speculation that Plans for a movie to be Notre Dame is the setting of filmed in the South Bend the movie, as reported in the 
area are tentative and 
Tribune. depend on a number of con­But, she explained, if the ditions, a state official said project involved filming on 
last week. campus the University 
"When it (a movie) is in would have to approve the the scouting phase, it's a big script before filming begins. "if" if it ever gets into pro­Galvin said the time it 
duction," Karen Galvin, takes for a project to go from Director of the Indiana Film scouting locations to actual 
Commission said. filming can vary. Galvin noted that she has "It (the filming) may be scouted South Bend for a this year. It may be next project whose script is writ­year. It may be three years 
ten specifically for the city. from now," she commented. But Galvin discounted an The Tribune article article in the South Bend prompted Director of Public 
Tribune which cited a source Information Richard Con­close to the project that the klin to send a letter to the filmmakers were only Commission expressing the looking at South Bend_. University's reservations 
"Even though the script is about filming at Notre written for South Bend," she Dame. added, "that doesn't mean it Galvin said she has would bE' filmed in South received the letter but has Bend." not replied because she did 
Galvin would not discuss not feel the letter needed an details of the script or reveal answer. 


Senator warns about delay for nomination to Supreme Court 
Associated Press panel, Sen. Joseph Biden, D­speedy action, but emphasized Del., had decided to begin the need for a comprehensive 
WASHINGTON-A key Re­hearings on the Ginsburg background check to avoid the publican on the Senate nomination the week of Dec. 7. surprising revelations of the Judiciary Committee warned "I would like to see us start Ginsburg nomination. Sunday that a delay in the se­the hearings on the same lection of a new Supreme Court schedule, in early December," "I think that it's wise to use nominee might prevent Presi­Specter said on ABC-TV's perhaps maybe the language of dent Reagan from placing a "This Week With David the Supreme Court 'deliberate conservative choice on the high Brinkley." speed' pertaining to the move­court. ment of the next nominee," 
Judge Douglas Ginsburg, the "I think we can get along Heflin said on the same pro­president's second choice for with the work, and I think we gram. the high court seat vacated by ought to take the time that is "I would rather be right retired Justice Lewis Powell, necessary, but I have grave about this one and do it with announced Saturday that he doubts about the talk of putting deliberation rather than make had asked Reagan to withdraw off the hearings until after the a mistake," he said. his nomination. Ginsburg said first of the year,'' Specter said. Specter, however, strongly his views on law had been "I think we ought to take the disagreed and warned against "drowned out in the clamor" time we need, and if we find, any delay. over his past marijuana use. after we start, that we can't get 
Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., it done as rapidly as we'd like, "I think March or April may praised Ginsburg for acting we take what time is neces­well be too late," he said. "I quickly in requesting that his sary. believe you're going to see a name be withdrawn and said "But starting at a reasonably very different political tone on he would like to see the com­early date I think is impor­this issue, if we go until March mittee adhere to same hearing tant," he said. or April. . . If President schedule on a new nominee as Sen. Howell Heflin, D-Ala., a Reagan is going to make this the one planned for Ginsburg. Southern conservative on the nomination, it had better come 
The chairman of the Senate committee, said he prefers to fruition before April." 

Monday, November 9, 1987
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
The Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry has become the first university affiliate of the Catholic Tele­communications Network Qf America CCTNA), according to a joint announcement by Archbishop Edmund Szoka of Detroit, chairman of CTNA and Father Robert Pelton, director of the Institute. The Institute was founded in 1976 by Father Theodore Hesburgh as "the channel through which the University offers its educational, academic and research resources, its faculty and facilities to serve the Church in today's society, in our country and beyond." ­
The Observer 
"Sure I tried marijuana," said former Ariz. Gov. Bruce Babbitt, a Democratic presidential hopeful. The candidate said Saturday that he is not a drug abuser now, but had smoked while he was in college Cat Notre Dame) in the 1960's and during the early years of his career. The admission of drug use by Babbit and candidate Albert Gore Jr., a senator from Tenn. was prompted by the withdrawal of Douglas Ginsburg's nomination for the Su­preme Court following his admission of marijuana use in the 1960's and 1970's. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Students interested in a concentration in Peace Studies should attend a meeting today at 4 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in the LaFortune Student Center. The meeting will be led by Professor George Lopez, Director of Undergraduate Studies, Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies. -The Observer 
The Juggler will return submissions to artists tonight from 7 to 8 in the Juggler office on the third floor of LaFor­tune. -The Observer 
The English Department at Saint Mary's will host a pre-registration ice cream party tonight at 7: 15 in the Stapleton lounge. -The Observer 
Anyone with questions, concerns, or comments regarding the University Counseling Center is invited to attend an informal meeting of the Student Advisory Coun­cil tonight at 6:30 in the Counseling Center lounge. -The Observer 
The chess club meets tonight from 8 to 10 in the Chicago Room on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. If you have a chess set, please bring it. -The Observer 
The Hesburgh pro~ram in Public Service will have Orientation II today from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in 104 O'Shaughnessy. If you attended Orientation I you need not attend. -The Observer 
The Baptist Student Union will hold~ bible st~dy tonight at 7 at the Bulla House. For more mformabon, call Nancy at 2841 or Carla at 4380. -The Observer 
Sexoncampus: AIDSandothersexuallytransmitted diseases will be the topic on a panel discussion tonight at Theodore's. The videotape "Beyond Fear" will be shown at 7 p.m. followed by the panel discussion at 8. The event is sponsored by the University Health Services and the Student Union Board. -The Observer 
A Resume workshop will be offered today at 3 p.m. in the library lounge by Jeff Rice, Assistant Director of the Career and Placement Services office. Mr. Rice will discuss the purpose of a resume, how to choose an appro­priate format, information on what to include and what not to include in a resume and will present further tips to insure an effective resume. This presentation will be repeated on Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the library lounge.-The Observer 

Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Business Editor .................. Steve Chiey Design Assistant ................ Joe Zadrozny Business Layout ............... Heidi Traxler Typesetters ............................. Mike Buc Typists... . ............. Karen VoSI!en ........................................... Daniel Cahill ............................................ J enn Conlon News Editor........... Anne Marie Durning ND Day Editor ........ Elizabeth Cornwell Copy Editor ..................... Rachel Jarosh .............................................. Maria Doti Sports Copy Editor ......... Rick Rietbrock SMC Day Editor ......... Karin Rader Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck Photographer ........................ Zoltan Ury Accent Layout.. ........... Katy Kronenberg 
111e ~-(USPS "' 2-40110) is published Monday throueh Friday except 
duri.na exam and v.ation JIICriods. ne ~is published by die students or the 
University of Notl'c o.-aod s.int Mary's Collcac. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for S40 per year($~ per semater) by writina Tile o..n., P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46~j6. 

ne Olllencr is a member of Tile ~ted ....... All reproduction riahts are 
reserved. 

Loving relationships are difficult but worthwhile 
Relationships seem to be on the way out. Newspaper columnists, talk show hosts and sociologists all suggest that a loving relation­ship between a man and woman is nearly an impossibility. These supposed experts have blamed everything from female careerism to male wimpyness. Men are condemned for being insensitive while women are accused of being difficult to please. What is most disturbing is that people are lfuying this claptrap. Thirty year-old women are worrying about never get­ting married, and men are spending enormous sums of money on skin reconditioners and hair cream. Is this it? Is the very social fabric of our culture so rent with the strains of social change that normal, healthy relationships are becoming extinct? Are initimate relationships worth entering? 
Fortunately, yes. 

A sound, loving relationship is still possible today. In fact, with life becoming more un­predictible and competitive, relationships are especially in demand as harbors of refuge from the world. The world is capable of being quite cruel if you are alone. With the support and companionship of a partner life acquires meaning, and the sky adopts a particularly brighter shade of blue. Relationships also allow 
are psychologically, socially and culturally. you to view the world through the eyes of an­That two people can become one person through other. Together you and your partner can ex­loving each other is a miracle in light of these perience life at a level of excitement and ful­distinctions. Nonetheless, this has the potential fillment unreachable by yourself. Bruce to happen to everyone who has the will to work 
Springsteen put it best, "two hearts are better at a relationship.than one." Relationships are very much like flowers. Admittedly all is not perfect in the world of Left alone they quickly shrivel up and die, but relationships. People are having a difficult time if given constant attention, time and sacrifice in beginning and sustaining relationships, but they bloom into an exquisite creation. Love re­the reason for this does not lie in social change quires patience, understanding, communica­
or shifts in demographics. The problem is that tion, unselfishness, and compassion. Faith is an artificial and unobtainable definition of what needed in your partner, yourself, and in the constitutes a relationship has been let loose in relationship itself. Relationships require you to 
society. People are reaching for a nonexistent draw upon an inner strength which has often ideal and becoming frustrated when they fall remained untapped, but is brought forth by a short. commitment to put all your effort into the re­
Somehow we have come to believe that being lationship.in a relationship is similar to experiencing a There will always be times in a relationship state of grace. Everything becomes infinitely when you encounter obstacles and disagree­easier, major problems evaporate, and life ments; anything from what to eat to where to 
· turns into an unending tapastry of romance and live. A relationship based on infatuation will bliss. The relationship is expected to carry the buckle and snap uder the strain, but a relation­happy couple effortlessly through life. While ship based on love will overcome problems and relationships are unquestionably worthwhile grow stronger. Partners in a loving relationship and definitely make life better, they also re­see the infinite value in what they have and are 
quire hard work and dedication to keep them willing to give up much to stay together. alive and growing. Relationships are difficult, there is no The very fact that we are able to enter into denying that. However, if they are built uponrelationships occasionally strikes me as love and commitment, the price of relationships
amazing. Look at how complex and unique we is insignificant compared to the reward. 
Maryknoll LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. 
People working around the world 

~tif,~ ~ FREE 

with people. 

i1fL. -TOPPINGS 
YOUR CHOICE OF TOPPINGS AT THE CHEESE PIZZA PRICE 
-CALL AHEAD FOR FAST PICKUP OR DEL/VERY­
283-2391 

Brothers, Sisters, Priests, CLIP AND SAVE CUP AND SAVE serve in 27 countries around !he world. 
SAVE UP TO I SAVE UP TO $4.00 I I $5.50 

MARYKNOLL, 
NEW YORK 1-1 0'; PIZZA WITH I 1-14" PIZZA WITH 
10545 
TOPPINGS OF YO<JR : TOPPINGS OF YO<JR CHOICE I CHOICE FOR $4.50 : .FOR $6.50 
1 HE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO: THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. 
-WE DEUVER FREE--WE DELIVER FREE­
I 

COUPON MUST BE PRESENTE[)I COUPON MUST BE PRESENTE FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VALID I FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VALID531 N. Midligen 51:. WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. I WITH ANY OTHt.R OFFT'R 
Phone lJJ-4957 Expires After 11-16-87 I Expires After 11-18-87 
Monday, November 9, 1987 The Observer page 3 

Bomb kills 11 at memorial service for Britian's war dead 
Associated Press 
ENNISKILLEN, Northern Ireland -A bomb killed 11 people and injured 61 Sunday at a Remembrance Day cere­mony for Britain's war dead in the worst Irish terrorist attack in five years. 
The huge explosion trans­formed the solemn pageant, which recalled the thousands of Northern Ireland's Protestants and Roman Catholics who perished for king and country in two world wars, into a horror scene of bloodshed and destruc­tion. 
No organization claimed re­sponsibility but the province's top police official said he had no doubt the outlawed Irish Re­publican Army had planted the bomb, and that it was specifi­cally aimed at civilians. 
Friends, relatives, soldiers and bandsmen dug with their bare hands through the rubble of a community center where the bomb was planted in this County Fermanagh town near the Irish border. 
In the frantic digging for sur­vivors, a soldier found the body of his mother. 
The blast blew out one end of the building and the structure collapsed, trapping men, wo­men and children against side­walk railings. 
Police said three married couples were among the six wo­men and five men killed, and that many of the wounded were seriously injured in the 10 :45 
a.m. explosion. 
A 14-year-old member of the Boy's Brigade said he was standing near the war memorial ready to lay a wreath when the bomb went off. 
"I dropped the wreath and rushed to where the wall had collapsed. People were screaming and we did all we could to pull them out. At 11 o'clock we should have been remembering the dead, not dig­ging them out," he said. 
The Rev. Michael Jackson, who had been waiting near the community center at the monu­ment for the ceremony to begin, said, "People started to scream and people started to run away -those who could ­but it was obvious that many would have been killed instant­ly." 

Chief Constable Sir John Her­mon said, "I am satisfied beyond doubt that this was the work of the IRA." 
The IRA views British secur­ity forces as its archenemies. 
However, the extent of civil­ian bloodshed brought expres­sions of regret from the local branch of Sinn Fein, the legal political wing of the outlawed IRA. 
Paul Corrigan, chairman of Fermanagh District Council, said in a statement that the party was shocked at the loss of life and added that Sinn Fein members "do not expect to es­
cape the consequences of this explosion -even if the IRA were not involved." 

Trustees 
But he insisted the bombing continued from page 1 should be seen in the context of 
cause of the blacks strugglingthe movement's fight for Irish for their rights in South Africa independence. 

Callyour mummy.  You remember. She was always there when you were frightened. And if you got hun, she was standing by with ban­dages. Wouldn't it feel good to talk to your mother again right now? Calling over AT&T Long Distance Service probably costs less than you think, too. And if you have any questions about AT&T rates or service, a customer service repre­sentative is always standing by to talk to you.]ust call 1 800 222-0300. Sure, your schoolwork and your friends keep you busy. But call home and find out what she's wrapped up in. -ATs.T The right choice.  

and he said he couldn't be ab­solutely sure but he would fol­low his conscious and he trusted that I would follow mine." 
"I'm not certain that policy is going to yield the good that he hopes that it will," he added. 
Williams commented that he has "wrestled with the ques­tion'' of how divestment would affect blacks in South Africa "for a long time." 
Williams said he didn't know how the Board would decide on the issue. 
"I'm not sure where the sentiment of the Board is," he said, "but I am quite confident that it will be discussed." 
In a Viewpoint column to The Observer, Peter Walshe, direc­tor of African Studies, wrote that he would be "surprised" if there were any change in the policy. 
More likely the Trustees, he noted, will issue a statement that the investment in South Africa is consistent with the commitment to social justice. 
The Board has repeatedly ig­nored calls from faculty and students to divest and have refused to act even after Sul­livan called for divestment, Walshe said. 
The Trustees are searching for excuses to "continue busi­ness as usual," Walshe said. One such argument is that di­vestment has been tried and failed. 
Walshe discounted this, noting that most of the firms that "withdrew" sold their holdings to South African cor­porations that were created to avoid disruption of the eco­nomy. 
The divestment movement, even without assistance from Notre Dame, has achieved suc­cess through damaging the in­vestment climate in South Africa. 
W alshe added that there are opportunities on campus to resist apartheid. 
The Notre Dame Anti­Apartheid Network is now working on a national lobbying effort for tighter legistlative sanctions against South Africa. 
Individual committees of the Board will meet on Thursday and the entire Board of Trus­tees is scheduled to meet on Friday. 
In other items on the agenda, the Board of Trustees will: 
*Receive an update on the "Notre Dame: A Strategic Mo­ment" capital campaign. 

-~ -----~ 
-----~-­
The Observer Monday, November 9, 1987
page 4 


Saturday. Kevin and his family visited the campus this weekend. 

Leaders to discuss mission of laity 
Special to the Observer 
Several Catholic lay leaders will discuss the Vatican's Synod on the Laity during a symposium entitled "Synod on the Laity: A Continuing Dialogue" Tuesday, Nov. 10 at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
The symposium, sponsored by Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry (IPSM), will review the events preceding the Synod as well as its implications for the future of the Church. "We are anxious to explore the unfinished agenda and the laity's response following the Synod," said IPSM director Father Robert Pelton. 

"Lay people from around the world were consulted prior to the Synod. We want to assure that their voices will be heard in reflection following the Synod," Pelton added. 
A Synod is an international gathering of representative Catholic bishops advising the Pope on matters of importance for the whole Church. 
The theme of the Synod taking place this month in Rome is "The Vocation and Mission of the Laity in the Church and in the World 20 Years After the Second Vatical Council." 
Parent's exercise habits may harm kid's fitness 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Most parents 
of children aged 6 to 9 do not 
exercise with their youngsters 
and many fail to exercise at all, 
setting a poor example that 
might harm their children's 
long-term physical fitness, a 
new study suggests. 

The study found that parents 
of leaner children tended to be 
more active and exercise more 
with their children than did 
parents of fatter children. 

And it confirmed previous 
findings that children gener­
ally are fatter than in the past. 
"The message to parents is 
that they need to make this 
(exercise) more a priority in 
their lives, and they need to al­
low it to structure their behav­
ior with their children," said 
James Ross, project director for the National Children and Youth Fitness Study II. 
If parents show by example that exercise is important and make it part of a child's routine, it will "establish a pat­tern that will continue to guide the child on a lifelong basis," he said. 
Ross is director for school health of Macro Systems Inc., of Silver Spring, Md., which researches health and educa­tion issues. 
The study, financed by the 
U.S. Public Health Service, ap­pears in the November­December issue of the Journal of Physical Education, Recrea­tion and Dance. 
Researchers studied 4,678 youngsters in 19 states from a sampling that reflected the na­tion's 6-to 9-year-olds, and 4,435 of their parents. 
Report says helicopters vulnerable to radio waves 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Crashes of the Army's most modern troop-carrying helicopters have been caused by ordi­nary radio waves from mi­crowave towers, radio an­tennas and radar, a published report says, but a military spokesman Satur­day vehemently denied the report. 
Some army investigators believe that the radio waves have made five of the sophis­ticated UH-60 Black Hawk choppers nosedive to the ground since 1982, according to a Sunday report by Knight-Ridder newspapers. It cited Pentagon officials and documents. Twenty-two servicemen died in those crashes. 
The report quoted one senior Black Hawk pilot and investigator as saying that the Army has come out with "bizarre, superfluous and inane reasons"' for Black Hawk crashes that he believes were caused by the radio waves known as elec­tromagnetic interference, or EMI. 
Army spokesman Maj. Phil Soucy heatedly denied that the service made up any causes for crashes other than what was actually de­termined, and has spent mil­lions of dollars on continuing tests trying to learn if EMI does endanger the helicop­ters. 
"We have been study­ing... this phenomena. We have not been able to tie a single crash to EMI," despite tests in which chop­pers were bombarded with radio waves, Soucy said. 
Knight-Ridder said records show that Army tests after a 1986 Black Hawk crash found that 40 of the chopper's 42 systems were affected by high-level transmissions common around weapons radars and microwave towers. 
The article also cited 1987 tests in New Mexico that it said showed EMI could push the helicopter's rear-wing stabilator down, putting the helicopter into a dive. 

~----------------------•TONIGHT ONLY--------------------------~ 
Ifyou're abright, ambitious college student, there's no room in your future for adull, nowhere job. 
ConnetotheAEtnainforma­tion semina~ and we'll introduce you to opportunities as wide open and stimulating as your own imagination. 
We're amajor player in the changing world of financial ser­vices. With new, non-stop career paths and new challenges opening up almost every day. From product and service marketing to undeiWrit­ing and actuarial to information systems and more. 
do. 
Come learnaboutabetterway. At the AEtna information ses~ sion, you'llleam you don't have to fit amold to fit into agood job.Just bring us your drive, imagination and aproven desire to achieve. Whether you're looking for acaree~ or even an internship, we'll show you how AEtna could be one ofyour life's biggest growth opportunities. 




'ifidP.t 
WorkWith The Best In The Business 
DATE: November 9 TIME: 7 pm PLACE: University Club Upper Lounge 

Monday, November 9, 1987 The Observer page 5 
Security Beat 
sonalized Pennsylvania license plate 4: 15 p.m. Security Investigated a
Friday, November 6 
from his car that was parked In the minor vehicle accident that occurred D2 lot. The theft occurred between on Orange field. 
9:45 a.m. Security responded to a November 1 and November 6. 4:45 p.m. An untapped keg was hit and run accident that occurred 8:55 p.m. Security apprehended confiscated from Green field. at the University VIllage. Damage Is four minors In possession of alcohol 5:14 p.m. Several persons were estimated at $1500. Inside the JACC. Issued non-contractual notices for Il­
1 p.m. An off-campus student re­9 p.m. Security apprehended a legally soliciting on University prop­ported the theft of his duffle bag from minor In possession of alcohol inside erty. the South Dining Hall during lunch. the JACC. 5:17 p.m. A South Bend resident Ills loss Is valued at $1651. 9: 15 p.m. A Cassopolis resident was escorted off campus by Security 
1:10 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall was arrested for disorderly conduct for trespassing on University prop­reported the larceny of automobile and public Intoxication In the con­erty. accessories from his car that was course of the JACC. parked In Green Field. The theft oc­9:25p.m. Security arrested a man 5:36 p.m. A keg was confiscated curred between October 30 and No­In possession of marijuana at the from a student's car that was parked vember 6. The stolen property Is JACC. on Green field. valued at $450. 9:45 p.m. Security apprehended a 9 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident 
1:30 p.m. A Holy Cross resident re­man for underage drinking and for reported the theft of his ID card and ported the theft or his backpack from public Intoxication on the campus. football tickets from his unlocked 
the South Dining Hall sometime be­10:30 p.m. An Indiana resident re­room at 8 a.m. tween IZ:ZO and I p.m. His loss Is ported vandalism to her car that was valul'd at $411.88. parked In the C2lot between 7:45 and Sunday, November 8 
to p.m.
1:30 p.m. A relsdent of Dillon Hall 
II: 27 p.m. A Pangborn resident re­

rl'ported people soliciting without 6:30a.m. Security discovered van­
ported the theft of 8 yellow nylon

permission on campus. Anyone dalism to a car parked on Old
mesh football jersies from a hamper

soliciting on campus must have per­Juniper Road east of Green field. 
In the dorm. The theft occurred be­

mission from the University. 10:45 a.m. A break-in of a storage
tween 8 and 9 p.m. re­
3:30p.m. A Holy Cross resident re­area of Holy Cross Hall was
11:30 p.m. Security Investigated a

ported the theft or an AMFM ported, but nothing was taken.
cas­property damage traffic accident at
sette player from his car that was 1 p.m. An Ohio resident reported
Juniper Road just south of the

parked In the D !lot. The larceny took a hit and run accident to his car while 
stadium.

place between 4 a.m. and 5 p.m. on it was parked In Green field between Thursday November 5. 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. Damage Is esti­
Saturday, November 7

5 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re· mated at $300. 
ported damage to his car that was 4: 15 p.m. An Illinois resident re­parked In the 02 lot. The vandalism 2:19 p.m. A keg was confiscated ported that a bus Inadvertently hit O('curred between October 23 and No­from a tailgate party on Green field. her car causing minor damage to her vember I. Damage to his car Is es­3:35 p.m. A Massachusetts resi­front bumper. The bus left the scene timated at $500. dent reported damage to his rented of the accident without stopping to 
6 p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh motorhome while it was parked In provide Insurance and other Infor­Hall rl'ported the theft of a per-Orange field. mation. 
His style criticized,Dole begins campai~n 
Associated Press As Dole embarks on his cam­most is organizationally, we've paign from his hometown of made dramatic strides," he 
WASHINGTON -Senate Re­Russell, Kan., there is general said, referring to strong publican leader Bob Dole is agreement on the impressive fundraising and paid political launching his campaign for the steps he has taken in the last operatives in 35 states. 1988 presidential nomination as 12 months as he has emerged But others say that won't be the clear runner-up to Vice from the pack of Bush's pur­enough. President George Bush in the suers. "Dole has a marvelous sense polls, but critics and sup­"I think we're ready to go one of humor, but it's like a two­porters say he faces lingering on one" with Bush, said Bill edged sword," said one cam­questions about personal style Lacy, a key campaign aide. paign aide, speaking on condi­and political contradictions. "The thing that pleases me tion of anonymity. 
Democratic candidates blast their opponents 
Associated Press added that he was concerned 
about the demands being 

DES MOINES, Iowa -Five placed on candidates. Democratic presidential candi­Tennessee Sen. Albert Gore dates took shots at each other said he was the only Demo­at an environmental debate cratic candidate who had here Sunday, but saved their refused to enter a pact limiting harshest words for their Re­such appearances. publican rivals. "The question is not what's 
"We've been looking for the most convenient for us as can­Republicans all day, and it just didates. The question is what's occurred to me where most of in the public interest," he said them probably are. They're at after Sunday's debate, spon­the courthouse taking deposi­sored by the Iowa Wildlife tions for polluting the govern­Federation and the state chap­ment with sleaze and corrup­ter of the Sierra Club. tion for the last seven years," Dukakis, Gore and Jackson said the Rev. Jesse Jackson. appeared at the debate with 
The debate culminated a former Arizona Gov. Bruce busy weekend of campaigning Babbitt and Missouri Rep. by both Democrats and Richard Gephardt, who Republicans in the state, whose groused after the event about February caucuses are a key the scope of subjects addressed early test. and time limits on responses. 
In fact, Iowans could barely "I would like to just sit there turn around without sighting a and have a good give and take presidential candidate, as 10 of on the issues," said Gephardt, the 12 hopefuls made a round who was criticized by Babbitt of appearances. for his support of a proposed 
For the Democrats, Sunday's oil import fee. The two started debate was their sixth joint ap­an impromptu exchange on the pearance and fourth debate in subject, but were interrupted eight days, and some of them by the debate moderator. decried pressure on them to ac­The sixth major Democratic cept invitations from influen­candidate, Illinois Sen. Paul tial groups. Simon, missed Sunday's 
Massachusetts Gov. Michael debate because of other com­Dukakis said he hoped Demo­mitments, but he made other cratic National Chairman Paul appearances in the state Satur­Kirk would step in to help set day. guidelines for such events, but Meanwhile, there was debate Kirk indicated over the among political observers over weekend he had no such plans. the significance of admissions 
"I don't think we ought to be by two of the candidates that in the position of stifling they had smoked marijuana in debate," Kirk said. But he the past. 
You Want AReadable Portable? SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE: $2499 SPECIAL STUDENT PRICE: So readable the characters jwnp Jff the screen. More power. Less weight. And an IBM PC®-compatible $1399 operating system. Here'o:; the Zenith Data Systems Z-181 PC ... a laptop with all the features of a desktop! And we can even put a spin on it ... Now, the Z-181 Laptop PC can be yours at a great NOTRE DAMI:: COMPUTER CENTER student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­COMPUTER-MATH BUILDINGstration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! DEMO LAB 239-5600 So stop by today. And while you're at it, ask about the Z-183 PC ... our most powerful laptop yet. See 7P'mtldata ~ systemsyou soon! THE OlW.ITY GOES IN BER:lRE THE NAME GOES ON  

-

Monday, November 9, 1987
The Observer
a e 6 


Ann Waldron, a freshman from Pasquerilla West, rests in the Hesburgh library. Finding enough time to study and time to sleep seems to be a constant battle for many students. 

'Cut the defense budget' 
Associated Press 

· WASHINGTON When 
Frank Carlucci takes over as 
secretary of defense, one of the 
first things he's likely to find 
on his Pentagon desk is a letter 
seeking his advice on the best 
way to cut the defense budget. 
It's a question Carlucci will 
be asked often as the Reagan 
presidency moves into its final 
14 months. 

The letter is being written by Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., and Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., who chair the Senate and House Armed Services Committees. 
Those two panels are meeting behind closed doors now, trying to work out a com­promise on a defense spending bill authorizing the Pentagon budget for the current fiscal year. 
The Senate panel is expected to take time out from that chore to hold hearings on Carlucci's nomination, but Nunn and other senators say the 30-year veteran of a variety of govern­ment jobs is expected to win Senate confirmation. 
Carlucci is replacing Caspar Weinberger, a never-tiring and successful advocate of ever­rising defense budgets. The bigger budgets were needed, Weinberger repeatedly said, to meet the relentless Soviet drive to outstrip Western defenses. 
During Weinberger's seven­
year tenure, the Reagan ad­
ministration laid the 
groundwork for large in­
creases in spending on person­
nel and a variety of weapons, 
and made downpayments on a 
number of new weapons that 
will force hard choices to be 
made in future years. 

The defense budget has 
doubled under Weinberger, but 
much of that increase was 
achieved in Weinberger's first 
term and Congress has granted 
only small raises -or voted ac­
tual cuts -in recent years. 

The two Armed Services committees are now working on a bill that will likely reduce military spending to $289 bil­lion, or less, in the current year, compared with Reagan's original request of $312 billion. 

Terrorists seize boat, hold 8 Israelis hostage 
Associated Press 

BEIRUT, Lebanon-The Abu Nidal terrorist group said Sun­day that its guerrillas seized a French-registered boat off the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip and took the eight Israelis on board hostage. 
W alid Khaled, a senior lieutenant in the Palestinian group, told a news conference in Moslem west Beirut that the captives -three men, three wo­men and two children -were unharmed. 
But he said their "lives will be in danger" if Israel retaliated for the seizure. 
The Israelis have carried out 22 air raids against Palestinian camps in Lebanon so far this year, killing at least 105 people and wounding 250. 
Khaled said all eight captives are Israelis although some hold dual nationalities. He said five hold Belgian passports and one woman holds a French pas­sport. 
He said the 17-ton boat was flying the Israeli and Belgian flags but was registered in France. He declined to say when the vessel was captured. 
"We're waiting for a contact from the International Com­mittee of the Red Cross so that Red Cross representatives can see the hostages,'' Khaled told The Associated Press in an in­terview later at a hideout in Beirut's Mar Elias Palestinian refugee camp. 

"The captives have been transferred to one of our mili­tary bases where they are being interrogated after being given the necessary medical and humanitarian aid," he said, without elaboration. 
In Jerusalem, the Israeli army said it had no knowledge of the vessel's seizure. 
Iran: we fired two missiles into Baghdad 
Associated Press 

NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iran said it fired two surface-to-surface missiles into Baghdad Sunday .. Iraq reported that at least one missile exploded in a densely populated neighborhood, kil­ling a large number of civilians. 
The attack came as Arab leaders convened a summit in Amman, Jordan to seek a united stand behind Iraq in its 8-year-old war against Persian Iran. 
The missiles, fired less than an hour apart during the eve­ning, hit Iraq's state-run tele­vision and radio headquarters and the capital's central com­munications center, said Iran's 
~[fiJ@fRllf~ 
are better with Your Group and 

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 

are better with Your Group and 


CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFF!CE, 
NIGHTWINDS (NILES NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R.'S (LAPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219-284-9190 
official Islamic Republic News Agency. 
Iraq's official news agency, also monitored in Nicosia, said at least one missile exploded in a heavily populated residential district, killing "a large num­ber of innocent civilians, in­cluding women and children." 
Iran fired five missiles into Baghdad last month, saying the attacks were in retaliation for Iraqi air raids against what it called "non-military tar­gets." 

Sunday's twin missile attack was launched a few hours after Iran said in a military com­munique that Iranian jets bombed an economic target in northeast Iraq and Iranian ar­tillery pounded Basra and other southern Iraqi cities. 
IRNA quoted a statement by Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps as warning that "more smashing blows will be in­flicted on Iraq's military, eco­nomic and industrial centers if the Baghdad regime con­tinues its mischievous acts." 
• 
Group Charters & Tours • Card Tables 

• 
Restrooms • Radios 

• 
Your DESIGNATED Driver • Tape Players 




CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
Student Travel Network would like to invite you to celebrate the New Year London-style; partying down the Thames River in a glass boat with 
111 1
other student travelers. The1 music, plenty of dancing an one to guide you through t~ .... ~·~· .._ you'll be seeing as you sail along Lon­don's celebrated waterway. A buffet will be served; wine, beer and soft drinks are also free. All you have to do is purchase your round-trio ticket 
to London from STN. Chicago fare 
9
frof!lflmJS STUDENT
. 
TRAVEL NETWORK 
ICAGO (312) 525•922 COME JOIN THE FUN-WithSTN! 





Viewpoint
Monday, November 9, 1987 
page 7 
Course offers unique insight on aging 
Editor's  Note:  The  following  is  the  
second in  a  monthly series from  the  
Center for Social Concerns.  

Whenever I think back to second se­mester, junior year, one thing sticks out: a course called Theology and Com­munity Service. Although I only spent four hours weekly at the nursing home and in class discussion, the influence that the two elderly people I visited had on me made a marked difference in my relationships with others and in my per­sonal inner reflection about aging. In essence, it was a twenty-four hour a day course. 
Karen Magner 
guest column 
Theology and Community Service is a unique opportunity to combine ser-
Malloy supports drunk driving week 
Dear Notre Dame Students: 
I fully support the efforts of the Senior Class of Notre Dame to highlight the dangers of drunk driving. Alcohol and responsible use of a motor vehicle do not mix. All of us need to become more fully aware of the dangers involved since self-deception and rationalization of behavior are constant temptations. 
Please take this matter seriously. Not only your life, but that of other innocent parties may depend upon it. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy President 
Gay lifestyle should not be condoned 
Dear Editor: 
I found Professor Storey's article on gay groups and "homophobia" inter­esting and quite commendable in its purpose to gain recognition for gays. Indeed he is content with his homosexuality -not only does he rec­ognize this phenomenon within himself, but he can also give it a concrete defi­nition. Unfortunately for Storey, the mere fact that he wrote this article defeats his very purpose; he wishes the Notre Dame community to allow homosexuals to be able to blend in naturally with the environment, yet, by 
Doonesbury 
vice, theology, and learning. It is not an easy course. Its difficulty stems not from the paperwork, but from the abil­ity to be "present" to an elderly person (especially if he or she lives in dismal conditions). The difficulty is com­pounded when the student in a mini­sterial role, realizes that he or she can­not magically cure the elder's sickness, loneliness, or for that matter, even make the elderly person like him or her. One need not view these as nega­tive aspects, but opportunities in which to grow. The greatest gift the student­minister can leave the elderly person is a sense of hope. Often the student is doing this despite his or her feeling of failure. 
Each student visits the same two el­derly people for two hours weekly. I remember the first time I met with Bonnie. I had a hard time ignoring the fact that her face was lacking an eye. Through the course of the semester, I gradually became absorbed into her storytelling about her husband and I never noticed her physical appearance. 
Living in a dormitory, students take for granted friends who stop by. Often we were the sole visitors these people had. They planned their week around our arrival. The group with which I visited at Portage Manor eventually felt at ease and even thought of them­selves as members of the nursing home community. 
Class discussions, weekly speakers, small group interactions, a personal journal, and a structured case study compose the course which, incidental­ly, counts as a second theology. You have the chance to impart hope to el­derly persons and experience their gift of sharing life with you, and the occa-
PHIL? rM HAVING 
aJITHOlJT A Flll./... TCUCOMMUVI­TROU!Ji& P.IITH 50M8 TRY 
CATIONS CAP/18/WY, I CAN'T 
COMP67'81N 7HJ<3MARJ<13T.1 A
CF YOUR ~ANP5, ffAR£JtR 
lOTOF !NMAT£3. PORTFOLIOS I'M MANA61NG /A/1/,/, GO
j PARTICULAR/..Y THe t<IARIJENt 
~ Stl·T..'t/../..ITE FEE.f?! / . 
RIGHT [)()IAJN 7Hf. TOILET! 
-----.:1 

P.O. Box Q 
virtue of his article, he sets them apart even more. Certainly his article evokes great sympathy for homosexuals, but at the same time it turns them into tragic figures, struggling with every breath, with every heartbeat, to go on living in this cruel world. --Well, it ain't easy for anyone. 
Ifsomeone chooses to be homosexual, and I use "choose" in the full meaning of the word, that is his own prerogative. Hooray! I am happy .for him and hope he has a wonderful life. The same goes for the one who decides to be hetero­sexual. Yippee! Now that the choice has been made, let it be and don't make an issue over it. I honestly do not lie awake at night thinking up new and in­novative "fag jokes" or plan mass raids on homosexual parties. It seems as though those who do the most think­ing about the homosexual "problem" on this campus are the homosexuals themselves. Perhaps they are trying to justify their own practices and to over­come their own "homophobia." 
But can they be justified? I say no. Any anatomy book will tell you that homosexuality is absolutely unnatural. Every part of the body has a specific purpose and if abused, the body revolts. Considering the practices of homosexuals, especially males, I am surprised that AIDS or something similar did not occur long ago. The body homosexuality AIDS and a plethora of other diseases. Call it God's revenge if you will, but any euphemisms you may apply will not change the fact that homosexual practices are a violation of human nature. And this is where the sin lies; it is not the feelings of love you may have for another of the same gender, but rather the active carrying out of those feelings. 
cannot  tolerate  such  abuse.  With  
smoking you risk lung  cancer,  with  
drinking  alcoholism,  and  with  

Therefore, homosexuals will never be recognized at Notre Dame. A Catholic institution such as this cannot con­sciously condone something which the Magisterium opposes; if it does, it can­not remain Catholic. And it should not have to condone it. There is no written law here at Notre Dame which says that homosexuality is illegal, but if there were to be a law saying that it is all right, Notre Dame would cease to remain Catholic. 
In the future then, not only do heterosexuals need to be sensitive to homosexuals but homosexuals also must be sensitive to heterosexuals. 
Andrea Burman Lyons Hall 
Personal attacks are weak arguments 
Dear Editor: 

Ann Pettifer's November 3 letter to the editor concerning Father Griffin's column thoroughly disgusted me. I am also disgusted with the Observer for ai­
r-----------------------------,
Garry Trudeau 
HOIA/ ESPECIALLY ABOUT YOURS! I'V& MIN&? 86&N7RAO­
,./ /NG YOU ON 
',-MARGIN! / 

sion to discuss vital life questions with your peers. These all enhance the value of the course. It is a time to think, as Pascal would say, about the one thing we know is sure, but we ignore the most: aging and death. 
Theology and Community, Service will be offered second semester. Registration material can be found in the Center for Social Concerns. I invite you to respond to what Henri Nouwen once described as "a call that goes right against the grain; that turns us com­pletely around and requires a total con­version of the heart and mind. It is indeed radical, one that goes to the root of our lives." 
Karen Magner is a senior in the College of Arts & Letters. 
lowing such a thoughtless letter to be printed. 
Personally, I have disagreed with practically everything Father Griffin has written since I began reading his column. Nevertheless, it burns me up to see somebody attack the man for his beliefs. Father Griffin is not a "puritanical doppleganger," nor a "moralizing scrooge." He is a conser­vative. He writes what he does not because of "filial obeisance to the shade of his Yankee father," but be­cause he feels that what he has to say is important. And whether or not you agree with him, it is important. There are still a lot of people, nowadays, who go to college in order to learn. Certain­ly, the only way to learn is to be exposed to the ideas of others--of David Hume and James C. Maxwell, Jim Morrison and yes, Father Griffin. If you do noth­ing in college except stagnate in your own ideas, and put down other people for the ideas they hold, you might as well stay at home. 
If Miss Pettifer has something to say about homosexuality or condoms, she should put down her thesaurus and say it. It's easier to put down Father Grif­fin, however, because many of his views are unpopular. They make us question whether or not we really are good people. And that is a question you 
can't  answer just by making fun of  
someone.  
George Coia  
Dillon Hall  

Quote of the Day 

"A true man of honor feels humbled himself when he can­not help humbling others." 
Robert E. Lee 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor·in-Chiel .... ................................. Kevin Becker au.1neu Managw ............................. Brian Murray Managing Editor ............................ Mark Penkowaki AdvertJtlng DeaiQn Man~ ........... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
News Editor ....................................Chria Bednarski Advert/sinO Manaoer .................. Melinda Chtlpleau News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production ManaQef ...................... Melaaa Warnke 
The ObMrver is the independent newapaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor..................................Chrla Murphy Projectl Manager ......................... Mark Mcl.llughMn Notre DIITI8 du Lac and Salnt Mary's College. h does not nt~CHS~~rily reflect the policies of Sports Editor .................................. Dennia Corrigan Syatwna Manager ............................ Shawn Saxton the admlnlltration of either institution. The News Ia reported u accurately and objectively u Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Conttoller... ..................................... Tracy Schindele poaaib1e. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Am MenaQef ...................... Laura Stanton Commentariee. letters and the lnalde Column preeent the views of their authol'l. Column space Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Cerroll is ava1lable to all membel'l of the school community, and the tree expreaion ol varying opinions on campus. through lehel'l, Ia encouraged. Founded November 3, 1818 
---~---­



Accent 
page 8  
Whitesnake reigns  
PAUL PILGER  "The Mammary Song").  ning.  
accent writer  Undoubtedly, Friday night at  "We started June 20 at the  
the Notre Dame Joyce ACC  Texas jam," said a still dripping  
The lights went down, the lighters came out. and the  David Coverdale was indeed king. But. make no mistakes-­ Tommy Aldridge, fresh out of a cold shower. "We started  
thunder and lightning poured  Coverdale's career has in no  opening for Motley Crue after  
in. Though the storm could be  way (with the possible excep­ that" he continued, removing  
seen, it could not, as yet, be  tion of "Sleeping Beauty") been  the towel protecting his hair,  
felt. The crowd did not have to  a fairy tale or prone to over­ "and left them after the show  
wait long.  night success. Unknown to  in Montreal. This was our fifth  
Gradually, the most recent  most Whitesnake bandwagon  headliner and we're still getting  
line-up of David Coverdale's  fans, Coverdale, who spent  it together. We only had one  
Whitesnake emerged from the  three years as lead vocalist  day of production."  
shadows, with the blonde,  with Deep Purple in the mid­ Aldridge has played with Pat  
black-robed Coverdale making  seventies, has put out ten,  Travers and Ozzy Osbourne, to  
his appearance after the others  count'em, ten albums under  name only a few, and his live  
had taken their places, like a  the Whitesnake trademark.  performances are nothing less  
king before his court.  Much like Ritchie Blackmore  than world class. His masterful  
The band burst into "Bad  and his Rainbow project he  solo Friday night included a  
Boys" and began the evening's  has utilized close to a dozen  stickless, free-hand nury a Ia  
roller coaster ride of R&B and  different line-ups for both  John Bonham. Aldridge is a  
pure metal heaven. Before the crowd could finish paying  studio projects and live perfor­mances.  living legend who's footwork and twirling tantrums are per­ Lead  singer  David  Coverdale "rocks" JACC.  
homage to its new found heros  The personel that Coverdale  haps matched only by Peart.  Coverdale to sign autographs,  Coverdale's life who played  
for a show starter that at the  presently calls Whitesnake  (Please don't ask. "Who's  he turned to me with all the  Tom Hanks' fiancee in the  
very least "rocked," Coverdale  (none of whom, incidently, ap­ Peart?")  professionalism of his fourteen  movie "Bachelor Party."  
interceded, asking. "How the  pear on Whitesnake's latest  years in the business and  
devil are you?" He then intro­ self-entitled LP) includes  "Tonight was crap night. I  asked in a thespian tone, "Hel­ '  Coverdale proved Friday that  
duced the title cut from 1984's  Tommy Aldridge on drums,  don't mean the crowd,  no. I  lo, Love, what is it?" I asked  he is a professional both on  
Slide It In LP; surely, then, the  guitarists Vivian Campbell and  mean me," grumbled an obvi­ him if he thought this period  and off the stage. In concert  
reign came down--and hard.  Adrian Vandenberg (who played  ously disappointed Vivian  was the most successful time  his voice was flawless and his  
Limiting themselves to songs  a spotlighted, dualing guitars  Campbell, pointing at himself  in his career: He replied, "Yes,  performance sincere, both of  
from only the two most recent  double solo), and Rudy Sarzo  in disgust and then handing  and it's also my happiest."  which were powerful and fun.  
LP's, Whitesnake took an hour  on bass. Vandenberg or Sarzo  me a pick. Every guitarist  I also asked Coverdale what  He had a good time--and the  
and a half to play eleven  occasionally doubled on  should be able to play as  he thought of his new found  crowd knew it.  
songs, including "Slow and  keyboards.  "poorly" as Campbell did Friday  fans. Looking off to the left in  
Easy," "Still of the Night" and  These musicians, much like  night.  a pondering grimace, he an·  Though the entire production  
their U.S. chart topper, "Here I  those in previous Whitesnake  Vandenberg and Sarzo were  swered, "Keep on giving us  still needs a touch of work,  
Go Again." The show con­ line-ups, are respected for their  unavailable for comment, both  love, that would be the of sum  Whitesnake can now be  
cluded with an encore perfor­ reputations both in the studio  preoccupied with more interest­ it."  seriously considered a force in  
mance of "Give Me All Your  and on the stage. After the  ing issues which appently took  Coverdale was then swept  80s rock. Coverdale has finally  
Love Tonight" and a hybrid  show, I found a few of these  precedence  over any inter­ away by his production  earned the recognition and  
cover of ZZ Topp's "Tush"  seasoned pros ready to talk  view.  manager toward a waiting  respect for which he has  
(which could have been called  about the tour and the eve- After patiently waiting for  Tanya Katain, the love of  worked so long and hard.  


Glee Club keeps audience cheering 
JIM WINKLER  be the Lord" part of the Mass,  by the four violins and junior  During intermission, four  school songs. At this point.  
accent writer  was the final piece in this first  Rob Meffe on piano, the group  members of the group per­ Starn invited all former Glee  
part of the show.  sang of God giving us liberty  formed a barber shop quartet.  Club members in the audience  
S ince 1915 the Notre Dame Glee Club has been enter­ The next three pieces dealt  and life, and how the hand of force may never destroy them.  Adam Steven sang the lead and was supported by Ted Wood­ to join the group on stage. At least 20 former Clubbers joined  
taining audiences with its col­ with colonial U.S. history. Starn  The piece concludes with half  ward, Tom Forster, and Dan  in the singing.  
lection of solemn pieces, Irish  pointed out to the audience  of the Glee Club singing the  Gorr, singing tenor, baritone,  The Glee Club began with  
ballads, Notre Dame songs,  that the Glee Club never has  word "life" and the other half  and bass respectively. The  "Halls of Ivy," a piece arranged  
and Christmas music. Last  the opportunity to perform a  singing "liberty."  piece was arranged by Rob  by Daniel Pedtke, who served  
Friday night in Washington  Fourth of July concert, so they  Meffe, who also serves as stu­ as director of the Glee Club  
Hall, the Glee Club continued  were taking this opportunity to  The final song in this  dent conductor. The quartet  from 1938 to 1973. In this  
to keep the audience cheering  perform some patriotic tunes.  patriotic section was a  ·  sang a humorous song about  piece, the group sang from an  
with its annual Fall Concert.  The first was a tribute to  humorous spoof on the life of  being in love with a girl who is  alumnus point of view,  
The Glee Club entered in  George Washington entitled  General Oliver de Lancey, a  a social wreck. The quartet  remebering all the campus and  
black tuxedos with white ties  "An Ode for the Fourth of  British military man in New  decided that even though she  its buildings. "The Hike Song"  
and gloves. Under the direction  July." Featuring four club  York during colonization. Poor  may be embarrassing some·  came next, and for this song  
of Carl Starn, the group  members playing violin, the  de Lancey ends up living in  times, she is still worth loving.  Starn stepped aside and Meffe  
opened with a few solemn  Glee Club sang of praise for  Boston -­a poke at the Boston  The second half of the con­ directed. Starn pointed out to  
pieces. The first. "Behold Man,"  the new America: "The news  College fans in the audience.  cert was comprised of Irish  the audience that it had been  
told of God calling us to be the  proclaim! from shore to shore'  The Glee Club then sang  songs and school songs. The  Meffe's job to teach new mem­ 
creature of his ideals and to do  let canons roar!"  three Black spirituals. The first.  first Irish piece, "The Wearing  bers the traditional Notre Dame  
the work of his will. This was  "Keep in the Middle of the  of the Green," lamented the  songs. Now was Meffe's chance  
followed by a Gregorian chant  The next song. entitled  Road," tells of not wasting time  British law banning Irish  to show how well they had  
about Christmas. The four  "Testament of Freedom," is  dealing with things other than  nationalism--"They're hanging  learned them.  
voice groups of the Glee Club  based on poetry written by  getting to heaven. The third  men and women for the  
mixed welL repeating the  Thomas Jefferson about the  song. "Every time I feel the  wearing of the green." The  The Glee Club finished their  
melody back and forth between  U.S. Constitution. The Glee  spirit," is a Glee Club classic. It  second song. "The Minstrel  concert in rousing fashion with  
the high voices and the low  Club performed the first and  is a moving piece about experi­ Boy," told of a local boy who  "Notre Dame, Our Mother" and  
voices. A Renaissance version  last movements of the four  encing the Holy Spirit and  dies in war. The townsfolk are  the "Victory March." As the  
of the Benedictus, the "Blessed  movement piece. Accompanied  being moved to pray.  happy for him, because now he  crowd rose in a standing ova­ 
Calvin and Hobbes  Bill Watterson  will never have to be a slave. The final piece, 'The Ash  tion, the Glee Club sang "McNamara's Band" and  
~EP 11\E. L~TES\ Rll CF 5\'HEt>-1<-0lDS I~ 1\\\S \\OOSE~OLD S\.10't6 n\t..T 11-1E'{ DON'T CA.R£. ~En.JT ISSUES  Grove," featured Ted Wood­ward with a tenor solo and Jayme Stayer on piano. Prior to singing. the Glee Club dedi­ "Clancy Lowered the Boom" as an encore. After that the group gathered outside Washington Hall to sing "White Christmas,"  
1\1\S ~E~R_  IT'S C\1~R  cated the piece to all their spe­ ushering in the Christmas  
"W~I COJN.TS.  cial loves. In the song. a man  season.  
\  sorrowfully disregards all of  The Glee Club's next public  
"""  nature's beauty because his love is missing. She finally  performance is December 4 at the Bendix Theatre in South  
turns up asleep in the ash  Bend, and they also announced  
grove.  plans for a Student Union  
The final section of the con­ Board sponsored Christmas  
cert featured the Glee Club  festival on Dec.  I I in the  
the usual Notre Dame  Stepan Center.  


~----~ -~ --~---~ 



Business

Monday, November 9, 1987 page 9 


Outlook on a shaky market: surviving a roaring bear 
By JOHN WHOLIHAN Business Writer "OK, so what do we do now Mr. Stockbroker?" 
The recent rollercoaster ride, known as the stock mar­ket, has enjoyed a slight com­eback since the Dow Jones In­dustrial Average lost 508 points 
on Oct. 19, 1987. 
Some analysts believe that this rebound is a technical re­action to the huge drop. They think that the recent gains are only temporary and that the Dow could still fall substantial­ly. 
Wall St. 
at 

NO Ave. 

On the other hand, many believe that the Dow's decline has run its course and that the market will rise again in the midst of continued strong earn­ings reports by major corpora­tions. 
Before the bull market picks up steam, however, most agree that there will be an initial per­iod of volatility--lots of ups and downs, but no momentum in either direction. 
"So, why did it drop?," you wonder. 
This frequently asked ques­tion has more than one answer. The first of which relates to Wall Street believing that they need to see action taken on lowering the trade deficit. 
Realistically, it will take time before any positive action occurs. This may keep the Dow around the 1800-2100 level, but it should be pointed out that the increasing trade deficit did not stop the bull market in the mid­1980's. 
Before the drop, it was thought that a declining dollar may hurt the current economic situation. Now Wall Street believes a declining dollar could be helpful in reducing the trade deficit. 
Another factor in the mar­ket's explosive decline was 
Sen. Bentsen urges progress 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The chair­man of the Senate Finance Committee warned Saturday that unless the Reagan admin­istration and Congress speed up their budget negotiations, the government risks sending the wrong message to foreign markets and seriously damag­ing America's economic fu­ture. 
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas said President Reagan should computer trading. 
Falling prices triggered brokers' computers to auto­matically put in orders to sell, further deflating stock prices. 
This created more sellers than buyers which is equated to a lack of demand. The lack of demand caused lower prices thus touching off more sell sig­nals. 
Computer trading, however, was not the cause of the Dow drop. 
The fear of a recession, in combination with the previ­ously mentioned growing trade deficit, is the prime reason why the market went into a free fall. 
Investor bearishness was also fueled by uncertainty about the future course of the economy. 
Perhaps the US is not looking at a full-scale recession, however, analysts suggest that an economic slowdown may hinder the market. 
"So what do we do now? " 
First, do not panic. 
Second, establish or rees­tablish one's investment objec­tives. 
Not all growth stocks pay dividends. Because these com­panies reinvest their earnings and have strong potential, however, the price of the stock rises. 
The question being raised now is whether or not now is the best time to invest. 
Due to the volatility of the market investing for the short­term is risky. 
The small investor has to think long-term. What is needed are stocks in "recession proof" industries. 
Nothing is immune to a recession. Yet, some indus­tries, such as utilities and food do well when the economy is ailing. 
During the month of October, the Dow Jones Average fell23.2 percent. 
The food industry, though, was off 17.2 percent, while electric companies lost only 3.5 percent. 
Let's imagine we have $5,500 to create a small, diversified 
heed the advice of this nation's close ally, British Prime Mini­ster Margaret Thatcher. 
"Mrs. Thatcher has stated that a convincing package to reduce the United States' budget deficit is a vital first step toward restoring confi­dence in the financial markets. Mrs. Thatcher is absolutely correct," Bentsen said. 
"If the negotiations between Congress and the president fail to produce major, honest, con­vincing progress toward deficit 
portfolio with established 
stocks from "recession proof" 
industries. 
The portfolio will be able to offer a decent rate of return despite the voltile market. 
A utility choice for this portfolio is Pacific Telesis. PacTel (NYSE $29) will pro­vide stability to the fund while paying $1.64 in dividends per share each year. 
The drug-health care indus­try was down about only 16 per­cent last month. Baxter Travenol is an emerging leader in this industry, capable of pro­viding 70 percent of a hospital's equipment needs. Baxter (NYSE $23) has created excel­lent long-term prosects with its acquisition of Caremark and its merger with the now profitable American Hosital Supply. 
Coca Cola is a well­diversified leader in the bever­age industry. The soft drink in­dustry was off 16 percent last month. Coke (NYSE $40) en­joys excellent name recogni­tion and pays a dividend of $1.12. 
The familiar Wrigley Gum is a solid addition to this portfolio. Wrigley (NYSE $54) has weat­hered the market storm by an­nouncing strong third quarter earnings. 
Limited funds will not permit a small investor to buy a round lot (100 shares) of each stock. 
Odd lot purchases cost 1AI of a dollar (12.5 cents) more per share. 
The $5,500 available allow us to make the following pur­chases. 
Baxter 50 shares $1150 
Coca Cola 25 shares $1000 
PacTel 50 shares $1450 
Wrigley 25 shares $1350 
Commissions amount to $160, bringing the total cost to $5110. The remaining cash is auto­matically deposited into a daily money market fund. 
The next segment of the se­ries will continue to track the stock market and discuss in­vestment ideas for the small in­vestor. We will also see how our portfolio has weathered the stormy seas of the market. 
reduction, America will ac­knowledge to the world that we lack the courage and the will to set our economic house in order," he said. 
The administration indicated Friday that it was softening its stance against defense spend­ing cuts. But it also appeared, following a White House meeting with Reagan and GOP congressional leaders, that the administration was holding firm in its refusal to rein in So­cial Security spending. 

Small St. vs Wall St. 
u The publishers of a monthly children's newspaper are under fire from the lawyers representing Dow Jones Inc. Dow Jones, which publishes THE WALL STREET JOURNAL, is asking the children's SMALL STREET JOURNAL to stop publishing. 
THE SMALL STREET JOURNAL began publications al­most two years ago. The presses were halted temporarily after the first two issues included a masthead similar to that of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. After an unsuccessful trial with a new name, FAN DAY TIMES, THE SMALL STREET JOURNAL recently returned this summer. Dow Jones is currently debating its next plan of action. 


Wholihan and Murray 
Business Briefs 
u Rumors-Now that the Inland Steel venture is slowly taking shape, South Bend is abuzz with talk. The steel plant will be built in New Carlisle, a very small town within twenty minutes f\"om the south end of South Bend. Rumor has it that the Japanese executives are building 40 new houses in the new section of Knollwood, South Bend's answer to Gross Point. In addition, a $3.5 million house was being built by the owner of Burger King, and while still under construction, was sold to a big shot from Japan. 
The excitement in South Bend is apparent, but up to this point, the rumors are just that--rumors. But one would be foolish to downplay any opportunities that are bound to spring up, like opening up a Sushi restaurant. 
u Egos-Forbes Magazine, one of the most prestigious business magazines, and probably the dryest, occassionally offers a bit of insight on making it. Malcolm Forbes, on money: "A lot of money doesn't make anyone more often right. It just makes him harder to correct." And again, "Anot­her good thing to be said for money: It massages the ego when no one else can perceive any reason to." Many people think of the very wealthy owner and Editor-in-Chief of Forbes as an eccentric ego maniac. The lobby of the Forbes Building contains tributes to Malcolm Forbes, including scale models of the Forbes yachts. But if an over-bloated self importance is required to own a yacht with a helicopter pad and three rather large pleasure boats on board, these writers are will­ing to make the sacrifice. 
u The Last Word-Laurel Cutler, a marketing consultant on the buying habits of teenagers, feels teenagers think as follows, "I belong to a club called teenagehood, and I want to look like every other teenager--maybe a little hipper, maybe a little quicker to spot a new fashion, but for God's sake, not different." 
States Which Spend 
the Most  to  Attract Tourists  
$15.5  $14.8  
$11.9  

Source: Travel Industry Association of America 


SObering Advice·.: 
---. ----&.-=Y~ -·--­
Ihe-0-bs.-e~~er---~ 
can save alife \-. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
newspaper
Think Before You Drink -~ 
Before You Drive ~ 
Be a part of it. 

Monday, November 9, 1987

page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The wrestling team won the Michigan State Invitational, scoring 72.5 points. Central Michigan placed second with 64.25 points. The Irish had three individual champs: Jerry Durso at 134 pounds, Todd Layton at 150 pounds and Chris Geneser at 177 pounds. Details appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
In NUL action Sunday, New Jersey and Philadelphia tied at 3, Winnipeg defeated Van­couver, 3-1, Buffalo topped Calgary, 6-3, and Chicago beat Minnesota, 8-5. -Associated Press 
Off-campushockeyislookingforplayers. Anyone interested should sign up at the NVA office or call Chris Brown at 272-8689. -The Ob­server 

Rosters are due November 11 for the Miami Project, an open flag football tourna­ment to benefit the Marc Buonaconti Fund. The round robin tournament will be held November 20-22. Rosters for both the men's and women's divisions should include a minimum of 10 players and a maximum of 18. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will be offered by NVA tonight at 6 p.m. at the NVA office in the JACC. Wear shorts and short sleeves. The testing is free of charge and on a first-come-first-serve basis. -The Observer 
A weight training clinic for faculty!Staff sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics Wednes­day, November 11, at 12:10 p.m. The clinic is offered in conjlUlction with the opening of the JACC weight room to general student and fac­ulty!Staff use during scheduled hours. -The Ob­server 
Winter hours have been announced for the Rockne Memorial. The building is open Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. and Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 11 
p.m. The Father Lange Weight Room is open from 3-10:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, and noon to 9 p.m. on weekends. Recreational swim­ming can be done Monday through Friday from 7-9 a.m., 11:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. and 8-11 p.m., Saturday from noon to 6 p.m. and 7-11 p.m. and Sunday from 1-6 p.m. and 7:30-11 p.m. Hours for immediate family of students, staff or fac­ulty are Sunday from 2-5 p.m. -The Observer 
Sports Briefsare acceptedin writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
n.ca..wrNon o.me office, loQied on the tllln:t floor of Lafortune Stu­ct.nt Centlr, ~cl....fted ~tram 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday t11n1ugt1 Frtd8y. The a...rs.1nt ~offlc:e, located on the third floor of HllgprCollge Cent•. ~~tram 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Frtd8y. Deedllne for next4ay clualfledala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must 
Classifieds be .,....,_., el~ In peraon or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ~..day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Typing 237·1949 or 277-11131 
IlSSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; /·1051 DAY. 

Soon the Prophecies of the invasion of Israel and the Great Earthquake will be fulfilled (cl. Ezekiel38, Daniel12). Form· lng a community, self-sufficient In food and energy, to survive, God Willing, the coming destruction. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, South Bend, Indiana 46634· 4475 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
FRANK SINATRA TICKETS EXCEL· LENT LOCATION CALL 2891312 LENT LOCATION CALL 2891213 

I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST -Gold Croaa and Chain • Sentimental Value --Please call Doug 2327 
Lost ·dark blue backpack either in Fitzpatrick or LaFortune. Contains book on Harry Truman and an addreas book. Reward Hfound. Contact Evan at x5699 during day. 
FOUND: STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET$-CALL £271.0575 AND ASK FOR AMY TO IDENTIFY 
lost Lost Lost Lost One Georgetown 87 Class Ring, USC Weekend ff found call 417 4 Reward Reward Reward Reward 
Lost: TIME WALKMAN. Please return to 313 Howard or the Rock. 
Lost & Found: When I got off Cardinal Bus 434 returning from the U2 co concert at Indy Nov. 1, I accidentally took some­one's CS&CO jean jacket instead of my Lavl'a jean jacket. Mine has a name tag (M.C.Kraft) in aide, the other doesn't. If anyone knows the whereabouta of my jacket and wanta theirs back, please call me at 1891 or stop by 104 Fisher Hall. 
COMPUTER DISKETTES LOST BLUE AND YEUOW 2891213 
LOST 3 keys on whffe lrelend keyrlng. Call3857 
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST Timex watch· -gold f-.with broken silver and gok band REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD Call Deanna a1 3516 
LOST: BRACELET-GOLD ON ONE SIDE, 'I LOVE YOU' ON OTHER. I LOST IT WED., NOV. 4 SOMEWHERE ON NO CAMPUS. PLEASE, PLEASE CALL KK AT 2981 IF FOUNDII 
................................................................ 
FOR RENT 

Laue lhla 2BR apartment now for eprlng aemester and move In anytime.$ 325tno. lncludee utilities. Call 232·9239. 
Now showing for IYLe8-&'ll89 lease. 6BR, 2 beth house on buallne. Call 232· 9239. 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT SEMEs­TER 1 SPOT IN CAMPUS VIEW OPENING UPI IF INTERESTED, CALL KEITH. 271-o571. 
ROOM FOR RENT IN EXCEPTIONALLY QUIET HOME TWO MILES FROM CAMPUS. PHONE 272 3920. 
................................................................ 
WANTED 
PAINTER WANTED: NEAT PAINTER WANTED TO PAINT CLOSETS, ETC. IN MY HOME. YOU CAN CHOOSE YOUR OWN HOURS. I HAVE APPROX. 40¢ HOURS OF WORK. PAYING $4.0GHR. CALL 282·1935, AFTER 6:30 PM. 
HELP WANTED Retail Sales Person Needed for local record store. Previous retail experience preferred. 25 hour per week position. Bring resume to: Tracks 1631 E. Edison. NO phone calla, please. 
WANTEDII Two grad students need six GA's for Alabama game--not neceasarily together. Please call 283·3090 II you can help. Our out-of-town relatives are willing to PAYI 
I UGENTL Y NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR THANKSGIVING. CALL JAMES, 3133 
HELP THIS TURKEY get horne to ST. LOUIS 
FOR THANKSGIVING1 Can leave Tues. after 12:30. Will share expanses. Call Laura x 2750. 
POTTERY BOOKS WANTED ··I AM WILLING TO TRADE ORGO BOOKS FOR POTTERY BOOKS -NO STRINGS ATTACHED. CALL RON 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE 
For Sale ·2 United Alrlln.. round-trip tlcketa to anywhere In tha continental 
U.S. $200 • or beat offer. Cllll Traet. lit 277·1773. 
airline tix to MIAMI FL from Ohare oneway 11124 $100 and ride back tom 2016 
NEC MuhiSpaad Laptop Computer 100% IBM Compalable : Fully portable; includes 5 hour battery 7 40K : Monitor and two 720k drives in· eluded : 1 200 baud modem extra New $2,200 ... Aaking 1 ,800 Call Dan at 1456 
1979 HONDA PRELUDE. 5 SPEED, AM-FM STEREO CASSETTE PLAYER, SUNROOF, CRUSE CONTROL, RUNS WELL. $900 OR BEST OFFER. 283· 4185.AF 9PM OR MOR. 
TICKETS 
'•.•............•.•....•.•.•......
................................. 
I reel/y. really, really need 1 Alabama Ucket. Student or GA will do. Call John at 283· 
2445. 
********************************* ********************************* 
NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE !Zs7·4561 after 6pm. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WIU PAY $$$1 CAU SUE AT X4238 
I NEED GA8 FOR ALL HOME GAIIES.272-aoe 
BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDSI Call John 27Hlll39 NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· ETS TO ALABAMA va. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814) 535-9490 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 288-4494 AFTER 5 PM. 
WANTED: 4 GA'S TO ALABAMA CALL ROMANO AT 1623 
WANTED: 8 NO va ALABAMA TICK· ETS, TOP DOLLAR PAID. CALL BOB AT 293-5821 FROM 11-5 PM. 
I NEED 'BAMA STUD TIX. CALL DOC 3347A! 
BAMA TIXS Can guarantee $30 min Call Paul 1424 
HEY TAILGATERSI I REALLY NEED 
ONE ALABAMA TICKET FOR MY 
YOUNGER BROTHER WHO HAS 
NEVER SEEN A NO FOOTBALL GAME. 
WHY NOT PARTY YOURSELF INTO 
OBLIVION WITH THE KNOWLEDGE 
THAT YOU WONT'T MISS THE GAME 
FROM BEING A LITTLE TOO BLOTTO? 
SELL ME YOUR TICKET (STUDENT OR 
GA) INSTEAD. I'LL PAY LOTS 0' $$$$$. 
CALL SEAN MCCARTHY AT 288·1842 
EVENINGS. • 
Need 4 GAs for Alabama for my brother, his wife and 2 children. Willing to pay a reasonable amounl over cost. 284·5666 
I need Alabama GA'a and stud tix. xt 1 18 Ken. 
NEED BAMA GA'S BAD $$$ $$$ CALL JIM 283·3669 $ 
I HAVE 12 BAMA GA TICKETS FOR SALE. MAKE ME AN OFFER I CAN'T REFUSE CALL 291 · 7649 
NEED 2 ALABAMA GA'S.277·7582 
SAM KINNISON tix available-! 1th row· Morris Civlc-1 1113-beat offer 2n-8298 
HELPI TERRORISTS holding my family hostage for 1 BAMA STUD TIK PLEASE CALL MIKE 3198 
BAMAI Need 4 Alabama GA or student tickets. 
PLEASE HELPII need oneatud. tlckllt or GA for the 'BAMA g11111e CALL KAREN 3391 
Wanted 2 GA'a for the Alabama Game Call Doug at 1 623 
NEED 2 ALABAMA TIX NOT MY$$, GET IT? CALL PETE 233·9660 
Need 2 Barna GA'a $$ Mark K2447 
Helpl Helpl Helpl I nead 4 Barna tickets badlyl Student or GA. Call Scott at 3217 or 1962. 
ANYBODY WANT A BAMA STUDENT TICKET??? 
BEST MONETARY OFFER 
CALL ANN £4071 
need 3 Alabama GA's ... Piease call Carol at 271·0888 
PINK FLOYD TIX Nov. 12, Indy Hoosier· dome Call Tom £1082 
Nead 1·2 tickets to the Alabama game. Call Dave X1588 
2 ALABAMA GA TIX FOR SALE. MARK (404) 231·1240 (0); (404) 921-3129 (H). 
Need 4 Alabama nx RICH x1148 
NEED BAMA TIX-call Mike 111911 
MY FRIENDS ARE COMING FROM LONG ISLAND AND I NEED Ai..A8AMA TIX. GA'S OR STUDENT TIX. I'M A SENIOR AND THIS IS IT. CALL PAUL 2185. 
1 BAMA STUD TIX NEEDED 11ADLY " CALL MATT X2085 

PINK FLOYD TIX MATT 272·1869 
NEED: 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALABAMA; CALL DIANE 271 ·0205 
FRANK SINATRA TICKETS Excellent lo· cation 289·1213 
NEED 1 BAMA TICKET-STU OR GA PLEASE HELP ME OUT ALYSSA 3736 
/NEED 

ALABAMA 
TICKETS CALL TONY £1517 
NEED TIX TO ALABAMA (2 Student). Will pay very wall. Call Richard et 272· 5582. 
NEED 'BAMA TIX student or GA call Doug 234·6718 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO ALABAMA GA"S. CALL DAVE AT 1598 ANYTIME. 
j""ii~~ii9"i~ii:;;d";;;;;·~;~i;;·;~;~··~·;;,i~g··~p 
to NO and now she nedds a BAMA ticket! Help me out--will offer mucho $$$$$$$$$$for GA or Student ticket. Call Beth 1334 
I NEED 3 TICKETS FOR THE ALABAMA GAME ·STUDENT OR G.A. 
CALL JIM at 1602 

............................................................... 
PERSONALS 
WAKE UPI 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEMI WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT AND TRAVEL OPPORTUNITIES in a world that needs you and your talents, interests and skills. We're inviting you to think of becoming a Roman Catholic missionary Priest, Brother or Sister. We are, and you can be, Maryknoll Miasioners. CALL: Father Skip Flynn (312) 787·8496 
3 ALASKANS are coming down for ALABAMA and they need TICKETSIII GA or studenl Call JAN X2776 
................................................................ 
COGSWELLS WE'RE ALWAYS THINK· lNG ABOUT YOUI LOTS OF LOVE, CHRIS MARK TOM JUSTIN ROB DUGS SONNY CHUCK MARTY PAUL 
Happy 19th Birthday I 

~•NDREA BELEFONTE 
Have a great dayl Jane and Dan 
FLASH • I want to tell you. . . but you 
aren't worth the breath. 

Some say the! body odor is the window to the soul-but lhat'a not important now. What Is Important Ia that I need 4 (four) tickets to the Barna game. Student or GA. WlllllBY· Call Scott at 3217 or 1962. 
••• BIIH *** 
My first wish I want the following: 
J.A beautiful woman to come into 
your life 2.You will fall in love 3.You will be happy forever Applicants need apply by phone, let­ter, home video, or in person. 
............. 
A squared, We must be warped. Love, Me 
My ride backed out... could be stranded in South Bend • if you're headed to Mpls. for Turkey day, please call Rachael al 284·5447 
Interested in an Internship? 
Do you know what you want to do after graduation? 
Confused about job possibilities? 
COME TO CARNIVAL OF CAREERS NOV.12 3·6pm ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
All SMOND Students are invited 
Interested in graduate school? Attend CARNIVAL OF CAREERS 
Interested in volunteer work? Attend CARNIVAL OF CAREERS 
Want advice on an academ1c major? At· tend CARNIVAL OF CAREERS 
Want to work in Chicago? Attend CAR· NIVAL OF CAREERS 
HELP!! I'm in deaparate need of a ride to Pittsburgh area for cousins wedding on November 14. I would like to leave 11113 and return 11115. Please call Mary £4002. 
$2.50 pitchers of beer every Mon. Club 23 $2.50 pitchers of beer every Mon. at Club 23 
$2.50 pitchers of beer every Mon. at Club 23 
Dr. Whoopie has come to NDI Gettin" a little hot, want to ba safe? Well, call Dr. Whoopie for quick delivery of needed protection. Call 2921 or 4644. Think safe sex. 
HELP-Rich brother coming to see Ala­bama game-He'll pay BIG MONEY for GA or stu.ticket-Piease sell him your ex­tra one-call Katy 271 ·0924 
ATTENTIONII Four friends are coming up from the U. of Alabama to watch their team get slaughteredII Nead four tickets or my a­·ls grassll Call Scott al 3217 or 1962. 
CB · Dinner will work this week, RIGHT? RJ 
KATHY NEE· What'a a •-tgirl like you doing at N.D.? Why not come South where lt'a warm ·mlu you too much. Thenka for the beat y•r 10 lar.•.HAPPY AN­NIVERSARY. 
Love end XXOOXX, Benjamin 
P.S. -Have a Happy Bunday, Jel. lybean? 
TERRIE'S TYPING word proceaaing resumes laser printing close to campus 1.50(aa) 1.25(da) 287·1283 
SUSAN YOU ARE AWESOME Ill 
Mike C.: Happy b·day to my favorite Zahmbie. Do something foolish. Love, Pig 
BOLSHOI BOLSHOI BOLSHOI Thare'a a BOLSHOI concert at tha Cabaret Metro In Chlcego on Nov. 12. You won't want to miN It, and you'll want to taka me along. Plea•call Kath lit 2823. I don't want to have to walkl 
Ride deaperataly needed 11112 to and from Indy Hooalerdome for Pink Floyd concert. Call Ray at 1478. Pie-help. 
TRISH (THE DISH)!II HOPE YOU HAD A SUPER WEEKEND. SORRY DUDE ABOUT BEING A MONSTER. WATCH OUT FOR FAST MOVING CHEVY'S DOBIE! YOUR BEST FRIEND, LIZ (THE BIZ) 
C, L, AND P OF 118 LYONS! BOYS A SCUMII LOVE YA'LLI WE LOVE LOUI BYE LATE NITE STUDY BUDDIES! I'M FIXIN TO GOI LIZARD ............ ........................... THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR HELP, ST. JUDE 
MIMI FROM HOWARD--I ENJOYED TALKIMG WITH YOU ON WED. SORRY I COULDN'T SHARE THE PIZZA WITH YOU.LET'S SHARE ONE TOGETHER SOMETIME.BRAD 4133 
WILLIAM NIES. WHY DON'T YOU SIT NEXT TO ME IN CHEM??? 
MONARCH will be at CHIP'S Tuesday and Wednesday Drink specials: 1st set at 10 
DEAREST HOOLIGANS 
YOUR FRIEND WHO WROTE YOUR 
PERSONAL ON THUR FORGOT TO 
TELL ME WHERE WE COULD IMBIBE 
TOGETHER. PLEASE LET ME KNOW 
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO IT. I'LL BE 
WEARING A RED ROSE, IF YOU WILL. 
LOVE, JIMI 
DEAR GAMESHOW HOST: I LOVE YOUI MAY THIS BE THE FIRST OF MANY ANNIVERSERIES! "YOUR NYMPH" 
JUST WHEN HIS DREAM WAS ABOUT TO COME TRUE THE GATSBY-LIKE CAR CAME OUT OF NOWHERE AND RAN HIM OVERI SUCH IS LIFE ... 
To All Of My Friends: You really made my birthday the best ever. II wouldn't have baen as great as it was without all of you. Thanks for letting me get "zooted" (even though I'm still paying for Ill). Megan-I'm sorry about your wild hang­over. Kelly and Gretch-revenge is sweet. Thanks a million for everything, you guys are great. Love ya', Margaret. 
Ja, November, sagle der andere. 
••....AND THEN THE ALPHA COMPANY 1SG SAID TO FIRST PLATOON: "YOU WILL BE THE BASE UPON WHICH I WILL BUILD A GREAT COMPANY; YOU WILL LEAD, THE REST WILL SIMPLY CONTINUE TO MARCH BEHIND YOU (ESP. THOSE HIPPIE RAG BAGSI).' 
CARRIE'S 8-DAY, 0-DAY IS COM­INGIIII That's right kids, the woman who lives for recliners and scams on Hare Krishnas is about to begin a l~e of legal intoxication. Prepare your shots. Prepare your bathrooms. INSTA-PUKE livealll CARRIE'S B·DAY IS COMINGIIIII CARRIE'S B·DAY IS'COMINGIIIII 
How do you like your OREOS·· single, double, or triple stuff-ad? We WOMEN IN WHITE like ours in a BODYCAST. 
ANGERS? LONDON? IRELAND? TOKYO? Were you or a friend there, are you there now, or do you hopa to be there soon? Did (do) you mias Notre Dame and want to know what's up? Then join forces with Student Government's REACH Network and do something·· even If just a little something--about itll We are new and we want you. Tomorrow­Tueeday-at 4:30 in the Student Govern· ment office, come find out how you can keep in touch with your friends (and foes?) abroad. More Info: Mary B. at 1284. 
"I would not be thy executioner, 
I fly thee for I would not injure thee." 
Phebe A8 You Like It 
SOK ... UR1RFL 

Monday, November 9, 1987 The Observer page 11 
':lf.~·.;;~l;·:: t~· ....~ :--..tj ,:... Sw!m teams tou~h in opener, .~..~.~ .a.:t !~ ·-~. ·~J~-· • cla1m top spots 1n NO Invite 
·t'~ -... t tiJ4 C· This meet was 
"'




~ .,.. 
·i"lt .... 

'-" •'"\. "' ~ "'. 4; ,. .. , r•'l . • _ , f f -.. . -:1 a. C'4 ;:·~
\ ·• ·~ · · '""',' • \ · ,.. T ~
.r '· 6 ~. ·' •. _, 
f 

' • \.. . ...,. 
. '<:-# .,.._.., 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team finished in a dominating first place while the women's team tied for the first place po­sition in the Notre Dame Invi­tational Relays Friday. 
"This is a great opening meet for us," said Tim Welsh, Head Coach of both teams. Welsh is in his third year coaching for the Irish and said he is looking forward to a very strong season. 
He has good reason to be, as the Irish men took first place in 10 of 13 relays, and the Irish women in eight of 13. 
Competing against Notre Dame were schools such as Marquette, Valparaiso, Illinois-Chicago, Wayne State, North Central, Wabash, Butler, and Saint Mary's. 
The relays were definitely not umned to just a few parti­cipants. The attack was well-balanced and included every swimmer. 

"We were able to win the meetwithinthephilosophythat everyone swims," said Welsh, "Two years ago, we did not win either relays. Last year the wo­men won and the men came in second. This year we won the men's and tied the women's." 
The Irish men set record marks in the 400-yard Back­stroke, the 400-yard Butterfly, and the One-and Three-meter Diving competitions. 
The Irish women broke six records in their four-year-old Invitational, including the 200­yard Freestyle, 400-yard Med­ley, 400-yard Individual Medley, 400-yard Butterfly, 400-yard Freestyle, and the One-meter Diving events. 
"We are moving in the right direction," said Welsh. 
particularly significant, not only because it was the first meet of the season, but also because the Irishwanttoplayhosttoacom­pletelynewmeetinDecember. 
The new meet will be called The Collegiate National Catho­lie Invitational Swimming and Diving Championships, and will consist of swimmers and divers from Catholic collegiate institutions throughout the na­tion. The Irish look to prepare for playing host to that tourna­ment by competing in as many meets as possible before then. 
"The first meet of a season is important because it is the first time the entire team com­petes under meet conditions," said Welsh. 
"It is also good to compete in meets here at Notre Dame because of the Catholic Cham­pionships we will be hosting in December." 
The Observer I Jim Carroll 

Cedric Figaro nalls Mike Power on one of his two sacks Saturday. 

GRAND 

OPENING! 
Fast service, outstanding

• 
quality, and low, low prices! 
---SI'ICJAI.
2Y2C COPIES 

klxli~kO·s~ 
creat copies. Creat people. 

18187  State  Road  23  
ncroos  (rom Corktowne  Liquono  
Zll-0398  
1 •  M-F IOam-IOpm  Sat 9am-bprn  Sunl'toon-5p~  I  

You didn't 
blow your b-day on by-did ya? 
Love your buddies 
Jeannie, Wendy, Annie 

_ _____.LL_C~·~HA~PPY 81 RTHDAY 
Applications available for 

STUDENT ONION BOARD SECRETARY 
-be a part of SUB -get involved with steering committee, the planning arm of SUB. 
Pick up Applications at Student Union Board office, 2nd Floor LaFortune-due Tuesday, November 1 0 
reen 
continued from page 16 
When they fall behind, most teams look to the pass. So what did Lou Holtz tell his players to do to play catch-up? 
Run the ball. Of course. 
"The running game gave us the best chance to win," Holtz said. "How'd we do?" 
Green and the rest of the 
Irish running corps made Holtz 
look like a genius by piling up 
three touchdowns and 304 
yards on 66 carries. 
And, more important than those numbers, Notre Dame won the game. 
"We had to play catch-up," 
Brown said. "We didn't want 
to throw, so we ran it down 
their throats. We have so many 
plays in our option game. 
At one point in the fourth 
quarter, Green carried the ball 
eight consecutive times, the 
last being a two-yard touch­
down run. 
"That (running Green on 
eight consecutive plays) 
must've been a mistake," 

SEX on CAMPUS: Aids and other sexually transmitted diseases 
Monday) November 9 
7:00  pm-film  "Beyond  Fear"  
8:00  pm-panel  discussions  
and questions  

Location: Theodore's 

joked Holt~, who traditionally uses a variety of backfield players. "It should've been 10." 
Green's 152 yards this week and 102last week against Navy marked the first time an Irish back topped the century mark two games in a row since Allen Pinkett in 1985. 
"I like the number of carries I got today," Green said. "I'd like the ball at any time. 
"It was a matter of rhythm. I was getting five or six yards every time I touched the ball. We had a chemistry, and we wanted to keep moving the ball." 
Brown had praise for Green who, like Brown, came to Notre Dame as a flanker. 
"I asked him what he wanted to do," Brown said. "We wanted to show people that he's a great tailback." 
Much of the credit for the success of the running game goes to the Irish blockers. 
"I just had to get behind my guy," Green said. "Getting into the seam, follow the man, and get what I could. I can't say 
enough about the guys up front." "The offensive line does like to run the ball," said Holtz . 
Brown influenced the game with more than just his recep­tions, and the Boston College defense had more to worry about than stopping the Irish running game. 
"If they double-cover Tim­my, we look to the run," Holtz said. "We play our game and do the best we can." 
''Tim Brown does incredible things with and without the ball," Green said. "When he's out there, there's one less guy after me when I hit the cor­ner." 
Brown returned five kickoffs for 132 yards, with a long run of 36 yards. On each return, Brown appeared one step away from breaking through for a touchdown. 
"I did the things I had to do. I can't see everything at once,'' Brown said. "A guy gets a block, I make a turn, and I could go." 
Boston College was trying to keep the ball out of Brown's hands, but the kicks did not make it into the endzone. Brown's five kickoff return at­tempts also were a career high. 
"Tim Brown frightens you every time he touches the ball," said Eagles head coach Jack Bicknell. "We had to worry about the kid. We didn't know what the heck he could do." 
What can the Irish team do? With Tim Brown and Mark Green, an amazing return game and a rushing game that benefits from a passing game that benefits from the rushing game, the Irish can move the ball. 
And the grand totals are add­ing up to victories for the Irish. 
Eye Exams

ProfessionalVISion 
Large Selection of Frames 
. Ronald L. Snyder 

All Types of Contacts 
20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1635 N. Ironwood  1341 Portage  
277-1161  234-2400  
South of U.S. 23  Martins Shopping Center  


Monday, November 9, 1987

page 12 The Observer 
Soccer team waits for word on tournament bid 
Purple Aces have two losses (to 16 straight since playing Notre Indiana and Cleveland State) Dame. in the region. "I'd love to see them do well 
It's had to figue out how the and make the tournament," 

tournament committee will said Yeagely earlier this 
look at Notre Dame. On the month. "(Irish head coach 
plus side for the Irish is their Dennis) Grace is one of my
win-loss record (17-3-1), their favorites. He helped us get
victory over Indiana (4-3 in back on track. But they were 
overtime Sept. 13) , and their only the fourth team to ever 
name (yes, 'Notre Dame' even beat us from the region, and 
has pull outside football). we'd like to back at them." 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI 

,------·COUPON SAVINGS------....,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts : 
L--------------~~~~~1 


~ $1 ?a~~ STUD~~! 
r-------------------1
!$5 OFF ANY~~ ! 
~------------------~ 
Evansville to the front for the Inidana head coach Jerry second bid, even though the Yeagely, whose squad has won 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
Unlveralty Park Mall 


The bid announcement will "We had to win, but it's bet­The win over Ohio State be made Monday morning, ter to report that we won big marked the lOth-straight win with first-round playoff games than just that we won," said for the Irish at Krause to be held this weekend. Grace. Stadium. It also was the lOOth
••• That goal would be especially home victory in Irish soccer 
Although Sunday was the last frustrating for the Irish if they history, with the first 90 wins home contest, Grace had to were snubbed from the tourn­coming at Alumni and Cartier change his tradition of starting ament because of their close fields. all the seniors because of the scores with weaker opponents. need to soundly defeat Ohio Sunday's Game 
Notre Dame 2, Ohio State 1

State. "I don't know if it will," said 
Ohio State 0 1This is the first time the Irish Irish forward Randy Morris. Notre Dame 2 Firat Period
soccer team has been vying for "If we make it we won't have 
NO • Stebbins 3 (Sternberg) 35:28. a bid at the end of a season, so to worry about it. If we don't, Second Period NO · Guignon 5 (Augustyn) 60:40.
Grace had to "go with what has then maybe we'll sit and 
OSU • Jack (unassisted) 85:42.been winning for him" in the wonder about that goal. Right Shots on Goal Ohio State 3 2 . 5
starting lineup. now all we can do is sit and 
Notre Dame 4 7 • 11

wait." Savea · Dellosso (OSU) 3, Stamm (OSU) 0, Lyons Senior Steve Lowney started (NO) 2, Hartigan (NO) 0. Comers -OSU 1, ND 6. Foula-OSU 17, Motre Dame 17. Yellow Carda­the game at wingback. Senior Guignon (NO) 39:17, Daniels (OSU) 50:43, P. If Notre Dame does make the LaVigne (NO) 50:43, McCourt (NO) 66:54, Pickard
midfielder Paul Gluckow, who 

(OSU) 71 :41, Stebbins (NO) 71 :41. Referee -Laslo saw his first action of the tournament, the team's Molnar. Linesman -Henry Stepan, Joe Bella. AI· season against Marquette second-leading scorer will be tandanca -311 
Friday night, entered the game unavailable. Frldey Night's Game 
Notre Dame 3, Marquette 1

with nine minutes to play. Midfielder Joe Sternberg suf­
Marquette 1 0 1 Senior forward Luis Canales fered a sprained ankle in the Notre Dame 2 1 3 Firat Periodplayed for the first time this second half when he was hit by ND -Sternberg 13 (Lowney) 3:40. 
season, and keeper Tim Har­an Ohio State defender while MU -Steinbaur (unassisted) 19:40. NO -Morris 5 (Augustyn) 33:43.
tigan replaced Danny Lyons making a cut. Sternberg said 
Second Period late in the match. that he was taken to St. ND -McCourt 13 (Lowney) 79:56. Shots on Goal
••• Joseph's Hospital for x-rays, 
Marquette 1 1 -2 The Irish very much wanted which were negative, but he Notre Dame 9 7 -16 
Saves -Wulff (MU) 7, Lyons (NO) 1, Hartigan (NO)a shutout against Ohio State, so does have ligament damage in 0. Corners -MU 2, NO 13. Fouls -MU 15, NO 19. the goal with 18 seconds to play the ankle. Yellow Carda · Wulff (MU) 19:52, Barrett (MU) 50:00, McCourt (NO) 58:00, Kratz (NO) 74:00, Stein­was frustrating for them. ••• >auer (MU) 89:17. Red Card-McAvoy (MU) 75:00. 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish soccer team has done its job -now it is up to the NCAA tournament selection committee to decide which teams from the Great Lakes Region will get invitations. 
Indiana, the top-ranked team in the country with an 18-2-0 record, will receive the region's first automatic bid. The second automatic bid and a possible at-large bid are still not determined, but Akron, Evansville and Notre Dame are the teams in contention. 
The news was good Saturday when the Irish learned that Ak­ron, last year's runner-up in the NCAA tournament, lost to Bos­ton University 1-0 at a tourna­ment in South Carolina. The Zips then faced William and Mary, a Top-20 ranked team, Sunday afternoon. The loss probably put Akron out of the automatic berth picture. 
Meanwhile Evansville won the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference over the weekend, edging St. Louis 2-1 in the title game. The win should push On the minus side is the 
strength of the Irish schedule 
(only three games against Top 
20 teams, versus Indiana's 10 
and Evansville's 7), goal differ­
ential against weaker oppo­
nents (2-1 wins over Valparaiso 
and Ohio State), and recent 
performances (the Irish played 
stronger at the beginning of the 
year). 
It's just Notre Dame's luck 
that the three minuses are the 
three most important criteria 
in looking for tournament 
teams. 
If Notre Dame does not get 
the automatic bid, the 
prospects for one of the eight 
at-large bids do not look much 
better. The East Coast and 
West Coast regions are very 
strong this year, and it 
wouldn't be surprising if the 
Great Lakes Region does not 
recieve an at-large invitation. 
Still Notre Dame does have outside help. Many coaches across the country, such as UCLA's Sigi Schmid, have been impressed with this team which does not have any schol­arship players. Interestingly the biggest support comes from 





~~~Wrct~~~
~~\, ___,r:--~46' 
WE NEED YOUR 


ll~}P)TIJJ~I 
IT'S OUR POLICY~ SPEAK NOW OR FOREVER HOLD YOUR PEACE/ 
LA/T YEAR..,MONK_ EJTABUjHEDATA~K FORCE TO R£VIEW TIE W~OLE HEALTH ~ U5E ~ ABV5E OF ALCOHOL. WE NEED )TUDENT INPUT ON THE lj/Uf. THE COMMITTEE 17 /CHEDULI~G TIME? TO MEET WITH All THE' ?TUDENT5 IN TilE OORM,5 ON CN1PU7. WE NEED YOUR IDEA) AND )UGGE5TION7. THE FOllOWING ]CHEDULE WILL BE FOLLOW£[7: 
~ov. rP) •WAL7H <fOISlll LO!JtJ,e) 6:30 , AwMNI <~MEMrNT PAA1Y ReM./ B=?0 P.M. NOV. ~(Q)· LEW I? (t1A~,IIOO' PARfif(tr;\1) b=}OP~.; '.'JlM (~ASeMfNT_PAI\TYROQI() B: }Or.JJ.. NOV. ~ft · ~LANNEf\ (PtT) a:;o P.JJ.. ; CJI\AcE (PIT) s:;oP.M. NOV.li~· KEENAN (COAAOJi) 6:}Op.}J..; LA~NE. (MC»Jf40}IE~V Tllt'AT(f') 8=}0r.». 
HELP US GENERATE IDEAS AND FORMULATE POLICY 
--~-------------------------, 
Monday, November 9, 1987 page 13
The Observer 

Hartlieb's 7 TDs 
•


surpr1se everyone 
Associated Press 
lOWA CITY, Iowa -Iowa 
quarterback Chuck Hartlieb, 
who threw only eight passes 
last year and started just two 
of the first five games this 
season, suddenly finds himself 
in the Big Ten Conference 
record book. 
Hartlieb, a junior from Woodstock, Ill., set a Big Ten record by throwing seven touchdown passes in a 52-24 vic­tory at Northwestern Satur­day. He had five TD passes in the first half and his last scoring strike was a 95-yard play to Quinn Early that matched the longest pass play in conference history. 
In addition, Hartlieb set an Iowa record of 471 passing yards, completing 25 of 32 at­tempts before leaving the game with more than five minutes left in the third quar­ter. 
All this by a quarterback who at the beginning of the season wasn't even sure if he was going to be the starter. 
"That's one of the real surprises this year -Chuck Hartlieb's emergence at quar­terback," Iowa Coach Hayden Fry said Sunday. "It's got to be one of the most fascinating stories I've ever been associ­ated with in college football." 
The 95-yard catch helped Early set a Big Ten record of 256 yards on 10 receptions. He also tied the league mark with four touchdown receptions. 
"He was a track man when he came here and always heard footsteps," Fry said, using the phrase to describe a receiver being intimidated by an ap­proaching defensive back. 
"But he has worked hard and has developed into one of the big-play makers in college foot­ball." 
Hartlieb's other touchdown passes to Early covered 35, 9 and 44 yards. He also had scoring passes of 22 and 7 yards to Travis Watkins and 7 yards to David Hudson. 
The game was only 50 miles from Hartlieb's hometown, but no family members saw his record-breaking performance because there were so many other Hartliebs in action Satur­day. 


CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS WE HAVE CLIENTS SEEKING QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS WITH LANGUAGE AND AREA 
EXPERTISE REGARDING FOREIGN MARKETS. 
PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE. 
FOREIGN NATIONALS WITH ADVANCED DEGREES FROM AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES ACCEPTED AS VISA RESTRICTIONS WILL NOT AFFECT CERTAIN PROJECTS. 
EXPERTISE IN TECHNICAL, ECONOMIC, OR SCIENTIFIC FIELDS IS REQUIRED. 
SEND RESUME, INCLUDING TELEPHONE NUMBER TO: SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE EXECUTIVE SEARCH DIVISION P.O. BOX A-3629 CHICAGO, I.L 60690 
MONDAY'S SPECIAL 55 cent Busch Draft 5 cent "Rejection Night" 5 cent Bud Draft per letter 

With his 152 yards, Mark Green became the first two consecutive games. Irish back since Allen Pinkett to rush for 100 yards 
Rally 
continued from page 16 
would take flight for the first 
time in in four games. 
But as the Irish couldn't 
crack the end zone in the first 
half and Eagles quarterback 
Mike Power having a good day, 
changes, offensively and defen­
sively, were due at the half. 
After alternating at quarter­
back with Graham in the first 
half, sophomore Tony Rice as­
sumed total control in the 
second half. After an opening 
drive of 61 yards in seven play 
resulted in a 33-yard scoring 
bolt by Mark Green, The Irish 
had closed to 17-12. but Power 
hit Darren Flutie from 31-yards 
out. With a two-point conver­
sion the Eagles had their 13­
point lead. 
The Irish still hadn't gone to 
the running game exclusively, 
but when Rice tossed an inter­
ception at midfield, Holtz had 
seen enough of the airwaves. 
The Irish dodged the prover­
bial bullet when Eagle tailback 
Jim Bell fumbled at the Irish 
45. When the aftershocks of the momentum shift subsided (8.8 on the Richter scale), the Irish began to churn out the yardage. 
Not a pass was thrown from then on. A 55-yard, eight-play drive resulted in six. From then the Irish defense, which hadn't mounted much of a pass rush and had allowed some big runs, began asserting itself. 

"We didn't blitz very much in the first half, and (Power) had a lot of time to throw," Irish outside linbacker Flash Gordon said. "In the second half we started to blitz, and we were sending everyone be­cause we knew he couldn't throw if he was pressured. We were having better communi­cation during the second half between the guys up front and the secondary that enabled us to pick up the run and pass bet­ter." 
The Irish took over six plays and one yard later and chewed up 69 yards of turf to close the gap to tie the game at 25 on Braxston Banks's one-yard plunge. Four plays and minus four yards after the kickoff, the Irish went on their most im­pressive drive of the afternoon. Taking over at their own 48, the Irish went to Green nine times in 12 plays, including the last eight plays, and the junior carried the ball and his team­mates to victory. 
"Their patience was better than mine," Holtz said of his squad. "I don't think we really despaired. I don't think we really panicked. We just tried 
ORIENTATION!! 

for students interested in the 
Hesburgh Program In Public Service 
Monday 
November 9, 1987 6:30-7:30P.M. 104 O'Shaughnessy 

Research Seminars Graduate Opportunities Courses Internships 
(Students who attended the session on 10-7-87, need not attend this session.) 
to play our own football game. 
"<It was) probably a long­term contract more than con­fidence You just sort of get a feel that 'hey this is what we're going to do.' I can't tell you, it just gave us the best chance to win. Ifit hadn't worked out, you all would have been in here complaining about keeping it on the ground. We've got to do what gives us the best chance to win." 
As for Boston College coach Jack Bicknell, it was another frustrating loss for his 5-5 squad. 
"We didn't make things hap­pen on offense," Bicknell said. "I really thought we could move the ball on them, but we didn't. It was a very frustrating game from my standpoint." 
"When our defense could stay off the field, we were fine. But then we layed the ball on the ground. Then we fumbled the ball going in. Now our defense out too many se­quences in a row, and they just were hammering us. They're big up front, and their backs were running. They just ham­mered us." 
Boston College  7  1 0  8  0  ·  25  
Notre Dame  6  0  12  14  ·  32  
Scortng  
NO · Gradel 21-yd. FG  

BC · Hudgins 3-yd. pass lrom Power (Lowe kick) NO · Gradel 21-yd. FG BC ·Lowe 31-yd. FG BC · Bell 11-yd. run (Lowe kick) NO • Green 33-yd. run (run railed) BC · Flutie 31·yd. pass lrom Power (Power run) NO· Johnson 1-yd. run (run lalled) NO · Banks 1-yd run (Gradel kick) 
BC NO First downs 17 26 Rushing attempts 33 66 Net Yards Rushing 94 304 Net Yards Passing 203 150 Passes camp-attempted 15·25 10·18 Had intercepted 0 2 Total Net Yards 297 454 Fumbles-lost 4·2 2·1 Penalties-yards 3·20 5·36 Punts-average 5·38.6 2·34.5 lndlvlduel Leedera 
RUSHING · Boston College: Bell 17·83; Frager 6·24; Power 7·(·23); Notre Dame: Green 23·152; Johnson 11-47; Watters 8-37: 
PASSING . Boston College: Power 15·25·0,203; Notre Dame: K. Graham 6·8·1, 111: R1ce 4-10·1,39; 
RECEIVING· Boston College: Flutie 6·119; Bell 3·5: Waddle 2·34: Notre Dame· Brown 5·128; Green 2·9: Attendance · 59,075 
Vodka & a mix 90 cents 90 cent Molson's 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~----------------------~ 
Monday, November 9, 1987
The Observer

pa e 14 
NFL roundup 
Bears escape again, beat Pack 
Associated Press 
The Chicago Bears and Green Bay Packers have been playing football for 66 years, and the final seconds of Sun­day's game seemed just that long for the Bears' Kevin But­ler. 
His 52-yard field goal on the last play of the game gave Chicago a 26-24 victory over the host Packers and improved the Bears' NFL record to 7-1. Chicago has led the Central Division every week since the start of the 1984 season. 
"I don't know how long we can keep winning like this. I'm going to get gray hairs and I'm only 25, " Butler said after his kick capped the Bears' third straight comeback victory be­hind quarterback Jim McMahon . 
.. 
Chargers 16, Colts 13 

Vince Abbott kicked three second-half field goals, includ­ing a 39-yarder with 12 seconds remaining, and San Diego im­proved to 7-1 with its victory over Indianapolis at the Hoosier Dome. 
Dolphins 20, Bengals 14 
Dan Marino threw a 30-yard touchdown pass and Fuad Reveiz kicked two field goals as Miami beat slumping Cin­cinnati. 
Marino's scoring ,pass to Mark Clayton put the Dolphins, 4-4, ahead by 10 points in the third quarter, and Reveiz's 34­yard kick with 2:08 left sealed the Bengals' fourth consecu­tive loss. 
Lions 27, Cowboys 17 

James Griffins' fourth-quarter pass interception set up a 4-yard go-ahead touch­down run by Garry James as Detroit upset Dallas at the Sil­verdome. 
Sweep 
continued from page 16 

not without a struggle and an­other comeback. Louisville ran away from the Irish after a 4-4 tie and took a lead of 14-9. A fired-up Zanette Bennett kept the Irish in this one, as the San Antonio native put down several big kills for side-outs to stop Cardinal rallies. Bennett was the only Notre Dame player in double digits in kills with 15, on 22 attempts. 
Facing game point, the Irish comeback effort resembled an avalanche, as the crowd of 498 sensed an overtime win. They sensed right. Kills by Wagner and junior Maureen Shea, com­bined with Louisville carries, knotted the score at 14. The snowball effect continued and Bennett hit home the final point for a 16-14 win. 
"Over the last two or three weeks," said Lambert, "Ben­nett has really improved her defense. She is a great offen­sive player, but defense is what will make her a great player. She's quick enough to be a great defensive player." 
The Irish have a week of practice to ready themselves for Valparaiso and Michigan State, who will visit the Joyce ACC Friday and Saturday nights, respectively. The regu­lar season will conclude with an away match at Western Mic­
i higan next Tuesday. Winning 
i that contest against the 16th­
I 
ranked Broncos is most likelyI I the only means to an NCAA bid. 
I 
~
' 
Eagles 31, Redskins 27 
Randall Cunningham's 40­yard touchdown completion to Gregg Garrity with 1:06 remaining rallied host Philadelphia over Washington. 
The Eagles, who evened their record at 4-4, snapped a five­game Washington winning streak with a six-play, 77-yard drive in which Cunningham completed four passes for 75 yards. 
Cards 31, Bucs 28 
Neil Lomax threw a 17-yard touchdown pass to J.T. smith with 2:01 remaining, climaxing a 28-point, fourth-quarter rally against Tampa Bay before only 22,449 at Busch Stadium. 
It was the greatest fourth­quarter comeback in NFL his­tory, according to league records, and the point total tied a team record for fourth­quarter scoring. 
Browns 38, Falcons 3 
Earnest Byner scored three 
third-quarter  touchdowns  as  
Cleveland  defeated  host  At­ 
lanta.  

Atlanta, 2-6, has lost all three of its games since the end of the players' strike and has been outscored 76-3 in its last two games. Cleveland, 5-3, has beaten the Falcons seven times in eight meetings. 
Vikes 31, Raiders 20 
Wade Wilson came off the bench in the second half to pass for two touchdowns and run for another, leading Minnesota past the Raiders at the Metrodome. 




join us for "MEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatball Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Monday. OBrr may Gl)ire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 
Bills 21, Broncos 14 
Robb Riddick ran for a touch­down and blocked a Denver punt to set up one of two Buffalo safeties as the Bills beat visit­ing Denver. 
Saints 31, Rams 14 
Running back Dalton Hil­liard caught one touchdown and threw for another score to lead New Orleans past the struggling Rams. 
49ers 27, Oilers 20 
Joe Montana threw three touchdown passes, giving the San Francisco quarterback 13 in the last four games, and the 49ers beat visiting Houston for their seventh consecutive vic­tory. 
Giants 17, Patriots 1 0 
Jeff Rutledge, making his first start in an NFL non-strike game since 1983, threw two second-quarter touchdown passes Sunday night as the New York Giants beat the New En­gland Patriots 17-10. 
Steelers 17, Chiefs 16 
Gary Anderson, 90 seconds after missing a 41-yard field goal, hit a 45-yarder to give Pit­tsburgh a victory over Kansas City and hand the Chiefs a club record-tying seventh consecu­tive loss. 
call John=ff3419 3413 

lifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medichl Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefits 


A Navy Medical Programs respresentative will be on campus N:JverriJer 12, St. Mary's career Fair 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. 
1-800-221-5932 
NAVY¥OFFICER. 
LEAD TilE ADVENTURE. 
Monday, November 9, 1987 page 15
The Observer 

The Daily Crossword
.·Campus 

© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 11109187 .... ­
All Rights Reserved 
8 Ham actor 
9 Man's man 10 Shield 11 Legal point 16 Wintry 18 -derby 21 In readiness 22 Observes 25 So-so grades 28 Race type 28 Disconcerted 29 Mills or Reed 30 Diminish 
gradually 31 Madonna or 
Jackson 32 Bumptious 33 Peep show 34 Get away 

35 Ward (off)  
37 Accuse  
39 Acquits  
40 Sissy of films  
41  Herbal  
beverage  45 Goads  51 Entertainer  
42 Hom  47 Currency  Davis  
44 - Barbara  49 Miss Adams  52 Inspect  
The Far Side  Gary Larson  

1 p.m. The Institute for International Peace Studies lecture, "The Non-violent Component of the February Revolution." Room 112, Law School. 
2 p.m. EIIIS Lecture "The Insider Trading Scandal: Understanding the Prob­lem," by Gregg Jarrell, former Chief Economist of the Securities and Exchange Commission. CCE Auditorium. 
3:30p.m. ElliS Lecture "The Ethical Issues: An Outline," by Prof. Richard De George, University of JSansas, and Prof. Clarence Walton, American College. Response by Father Drew Christiansen, N.D. CCE Auditorium. 
4 p.m. "Deficits, Debt, and Destabilization: The Perversity of High Interest Rates," by Samual Morley of Vanderbilt University. Room 258, Fitzpatrick Hall. 
7 p.m. PresentationReception for all Arts and Letters and Business students interested in discovering career opportunities with Aetna Life and Casualty. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. Upper Lounge, University Club. 
7 p.m. Philosophy club meeting, room 210, O'Shaugnessy. 7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "The Most Dangerous Game," Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. ElliS Kenote Address by John Phelan, Jr., Chairman of the New 
York Stock Exchange. CCE Auditorium. 9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "The Hustler," Annenberg 
Auditorium.  
Dinner Menus  ·  
Notre Dame Hot Beef Sandwich Turkey Divan Pasta Primavera BBQ Pork Ribs  Saint Mary's Chicken Teriyaki Spaghetti Cheese Enchiladas Deli Bar  


Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
ACROSS 1 Data 6 Cunning 
12 A Stevenson 13 Tribute 14 Abrupt 15 Revoke 17 Nucleus 19 Holy women: 
abbr. 20 Charged atom 23 Enrages 24 Eight 
musicians 26 Gambling 
town 27 Roman bronze 28 Laugh In 
contempt 29 Abdicate 30 More ashen 31 Consolation 32 Zephyrs 35 Swan songs 36 TV pattern 37 Cent 38 Made Into a 
curve 39 Cuban dance 40 Depot: abbr. 43 Use a 
branding Iron 44 Playground 
piece 45 Whirl 46 Marching 
Interjection 47 Fr. city 48 Meal 50 Issue 53 Of certain 
royalty 54 Off the right path 55 Ryan or 
Castle 56 VIrtuous 57 Gravel ridge 
DOWN 1 Broad fillet 2 Cleave 3 Exact repUcas 4 Pastries 5 Building spot 6 Chin. tea 7 -thermldor 
· 


Beernuts 
.... WH/i-T J (}IN'T!Jt(jf)£ 
CfV 15 JF THE SIJPPOSfC> fR[£ ·WilL Cf !111/V IS M::J?Tll rH£ (1)5T If.t M:JNI)£fJ/Ifr 
IF lr'D JUST!£8£TT[~ ~ ''Go!J", w/1/fT£/IE.R HE; SJIE, 
tlE? IT IS, TO JJ/TER/1[/'J£ !Ill HVMNJ ~rJFF£R!Mf. 
" 
YeAH, IT~ II TM/1 TllfA/6 
W NCI!Jf / G£55 !( {1)11[5 /XJWN TO >aA< ff/((JNAL Ba ­
t-Iff YW PAIITYJJAs. 
I 
~1,{(11. \ 
~ .. HI, 
;JAAY 
Mark Williams 
.... WHY ARENT Y(){) mr 
JEKRY, YOVRE A!iJIJTliS GETr!NG-./)f(()NK ANbJlJI'/f!Alr 
f££? AS A BilbY PoOL. 5()('1£ CHICKS 7IT's 5/tTI)fiJIIY 
j w!VlT trRr You ft~ 60D 5AK£S /1 ' I ' ' \ ~~~~: 



SUB presents: 

The Morning After 

• 

Wednesday & Thursday 
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 pm Engineering Auditorium $2.00 

Sports 
Monday, November 9, 1987
page 16 

Irish storm back to 

...-----­
Running game averts BC upset 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Conventional football wisdom says that when trailing 25-12 midway through the third quarter, you need to throw the ball to get back in the game. But then, no one ever accused Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz of being conventional. 
When the chips were down for his

-_.,· 
squad, Holtz turned to his veteran of­fensive line and his running attack. The back-to-basics philosophy resulted in 20-unanswered points and a 32-25 vic­tory over visiting Boston College. 
"I felt it gave us the best chance to win," Holtz said afterward. "We tried throwing the ball earlier, but we had couple of interceptions, we get a sack, we get a penalty. That's not our thing." 
The Irish had shown a different look in the first half, opening with freshman Kent Graham at quarterback. On Notre Dame's first offensive play, Graham hit Tim Brown for 58 yards. With Graham, known for his throwing abil­ity, at the helm, it looked like the Irish 
see RALLY, page 13 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
They played like a team with something to prove. And they proved it. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team swept past Louisville, 15­13, 15-5, 16-14 Saturday night at the Joyce ACC. As the scores indicate, the three-game sweep was not an easy task. The Irish battled back from considerable deficits in games one and three to pull out the victory. 
"I was delighted to see us come back in those games," 


College. Dennis Corrigan details the 


• Bennett keys 
said Notre Dame head coach Art Lambert. "We rose to the occasion, and did what we are supposed to do for once." 
What the Irish were supposed to do going after last year's 33-7 record was to make the NCAA Tournament for the first time in the program's history. While key losses to Top 20 teams keep that goal questionable, in Sat-
urday's match Notre Dame , visitors minutes later with a showed signs of a team that thunderous kill. In between, knew how to win. Staging com-junior Mary Kay Waller re­ebacks and not letting up after corded her second service ace a convincing first-game win, nf the eame and two key blocks 
ND soccer team beats MU, osu to keep playoff hopes alive 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
With a possible invitation to the NCAA Tournament at stake, the Irish soccer team beat Marquette and Ohio State to keep its tournament hopes alive. 
Fininshing the regular season with a 17-3-1 record, the Irish must now sit and wait for the announcement Monday morning of the 24 teams who will comprise the tournament. 
The Irish needed two vic­tories this weekend to assure a chance for a bid, and two vic­tories they received, beating the Warriors Friday night 3-1 and beating the Buckeyes Sun­day 2-1. 
Notre Dame had the upper hand against Ohio State, but lackluster play at times cost the team a more convincing victory in the final score. 
Danny Stebbins got the Irish on the scoreboard at the 35:28 mark on a disputed goal. Steb­bins went up with Buckeye keeper Norm Dellosso on a cross, and when Dellosso couldn't hold on to the ball, Stebbins knocked it home. The Ohio State bench argued that Stebbins fouled the keeper, but none was called and the goal stood. 
There was no questioning Notre Dame's second goal at the 60:40 mark when midfielder John Guignon headed home a Dave Augustyn throw-in cross. Sandwiched by two defenders, Guignon suprised the keeper with a sharp header to the short side. 
NO tourney outlook, page 12 
Not only did the Irish want to win by a few goals, but they also wanted a shut out to report to the selection committee. For the first 89 minutes they held the Buckeyes scoreless. But with 18 seconds left on the clock Ohio State's Dean Jack hit a direct kick around the wall and inside the left post for a goal. 
"That was very frustrating," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "We needed a win and we needed to play shutout ball as well as win. We're a much the Irish improved their record to 23-8. 
In the opener, Louisville jumped out to a 9-3 lead by fin­ding holes in the Notre Dame backcourt and capitalizing on Irish hitting mistakes, several coming off misplaced sets. Junior Zanette Bennett started the Notre Dame comeback with a kill deep into Cardinal territory, then finished off the 
stronger team than Ohio State, but the tournament committee doesn't know that." 
Grace was also referring to last Wednesday night's 2-1 win over Valparaiso, another team which the Irish failed to put away. 

But the team did respond to the challenge Friday night against Marquette, keeping the ball in the Warriors' end most of the game. Less than four minutes into the contest midfielder Joe Sternberg started the scoring when he took a chip pass from wingback Steve Lowney and and beat keeper David Wulff. 
Marquette's Scott Steinbauer tied the game 16 minutes later on an unassisted goal, but for­ward Randy Morris put the Irish ahead whfD he split the Marquette defense on a run, took a feed from wingback Dave Augustyn and found the back of the net. 
Forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt finished the scoring when he headed home a cross by Lowney with 10 minutes remaining. 





