.r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.--------------~ 
Sweet Sixteen -page 9 

Associated Press the death penalty in such cases felony committed, combined is not the kind of "cruel and with reckless indifference to WASHINGTON -The Su­unusual punishment" banned human life is sufficient" to jus­preme . Court made it easier by the Constitution's Eighth tify a death penalty, Justice 
Tuesday for states to condemn Amendment. Sandra Day O'Connor wrote for to death criminals who are not 
the court. 
killers and who never intended The court in 1982 outlawed "This reckless indifference to kill anyone. the death penalty for "non­to the value of human life mayBy a 5-4 vote, the justices triggermen" who did not intend be every bit as shocking to the said people who play a major to take part in a killing but moral sense as intent to kill," 
part in a crime that results in whose crimes resulted in a she said. a murder may be sentenced to death. Tuesday's ruling chips death if they displayed a "reck­away at the legal protection the The decision will have no im­less indifference" for human 1982 decision afforded some mediate impact for 11 of the 37 life. criminals. states with death penalty laws 
The court said that imposing "Major participation in the on their books because those 

A Catholic University? 
Andy Saal reads from the Druid "Book of ted itself to bringing about the end o:' winter Crimes" during Tuesday night's ceremony at and the beginning of Spring, celebrated the the War Memorial, Notre Dame's opening of An Tostal. "Stonehenge." The group, which has commit-
SMC graduation speaker named 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Saint Mary's Editor  lege seeks to foster in its graduates." Dom Helder Camara was  the 1960's. He was barred from the news media by the government for his convic­ 
Archbishop  Dom  Helder  ordained in 1931 and has been  tions.  
Camara of Recife and Olinda, Brazil will address the Saint  an active campaigner for so­cial reform in Latin America.  Camara has been active as a religious organizer. He or­ 
Mary's College 1987 graduat­ing class on Saturday, May 16.  In 1936 he began working in the slums of Rio de Janiero.  ganized the first Brazilian Conference of Bishops and as­ 
College President William  While there, he worked on the  sisted in the development of  
Hickey said Camara was cho­ construction  of  low-income  CELAM, the Latin American  
sen because he fulfilled there­quirements for a Saint Mary's commencement speaker. "The criteria necessary for a commencement speaker are either/or extraordinary service to Saint Mary's Col­ cooperative housing. Camara began literacy campaigns, self-help pro­grams and argued for fair wages in factories after he was appointed as archbishop in 1964.  Conference of Bishops. Recently the Archbishop has been recognized for his writings, meditations and ad­dresses on a new understand­ing on gospel liberation. Camara has based his re­ 
lege, oustanding contribu­tions to the Catholic Church, are Catholic educators, dis­ During a period of military oppression in his country in the mid-1960's, Dom Helder  search on the non-violent ac­tions of Christ. The Archbishop has  
tinguished in the areas of public service and exemplify those qualities which the col- disputed state-sanctioned vio­lence and political torture during military oppression in  received the Martin Luther see SPEAKER, page 4  

states already have banned not interfere unlawfully with 
capital punishment for interstate commerce. criminals who did not take a -Ruled by a 5-3 vote that the life or intend to take a life. government may use grand 
O'Connor said those states jury evidence from criminal are Alabama, Louisiana, Mis­prosecutions when it sues indi­sissippi, Nevada, New Mexico, viduals or businesses in non­New Jersey, Ohio, Oregon, criminal cases. Texas, Utah and Virginia. 
-Gave courts nationwide new In other decisions, the court: guidelines to determine when 
-Gave states considerable an accomplice's confession power to regulate hostile cor­may be used against a co­porate takeovers by ruling, 6-3, defendant as it decided sepa­
that an Indiana law imposing rate cases from New York City restraints on tender offers does and Detroit. 

Delay granted in traffic death trial 
By MARK PANKOWSKI If an agreement has been Managing Editor made, however, the student will likely plea at the April 30 
In expectation of a plea, a hearing. judge granted a delay Tuesday The reckless homicide in the trial of a student charged charge, a Class C felony, in connection with the traffic carries a maximum penalty of death of a South Bend man. eight years in prison and a 
William Stanley, the Notre $10,000 fine. The minimum Dame student's attorney, said punishment is three years in he is discussing a possible plea prison. agreement with the county The involuntary prosecutor. manslaughter charge, a Class 
The student has pleaded in­D felony, is punishable by up nocent to charges of reckless to four years in prison and a homicide and involuntary $10,000 fine. The minimum manslaughter stemming from penalty is a one-year prison the Nov. 15 accident. term. 
Buddy D. Moore, 52, of 1314 If a plea agreement is Goodland Ave., died from head worked out, it could take many injuries one day after being forms, Stanley said. The stu­struck by a car driven by the dent could plead guilty to one 
student, police records show. charge, for example, and the 
Stanley said he and the stu­prosecutor could drop the other dent will appear before the one. court again on April 30. If no The student originally was 
plea agreement has been scheduled to go to trial on Feb. reached, Superior Court Judge 17. On that day, however, his Jerome Frese will set a new trial was rescheduled to Tues­trial date. day, April 21. 
Plea expected today in Cogswell accident 
By MARK PANKOWSKI however, that date might be Managing Editor "as late as September," said a court administrator. 
A Notre Dame student is ex­Barnes said the prosecution pected to plea today to a mis­has its case ready in the event demeanor charge in connection that the student pleads not with the Dec. 6 traffic accident guilty. that resulted in junior Michael The student's hearing is Cogswell's death. scheduled for this morning in 
The student, who was 21 at the Traffic and Misdemeanor the time of the accident, is Court. charged with driving under the Originally slated for March influence of alcohol, a Class A 17, the hearing was postponed misdemeanor. to April 2. When that day ar­
The charge carries a maxi­rived, however, the hearing mum punishment of one year was postponed again, this time in prison and a $5,000 fine. to today. 
St. Joseph County Prosecutor Before the student was Michael Barnes said he expects charged, his case was sent to the student to plea at his the St. Joseph County Grand hearing today. Jury. Upon review of the case, 
If the student pleads guilty, the grand jury recommended he likely will be sentenced charging the student with the today, said Lynn Aldridge, a misdemeanor. traffic and misdemeanor court Cogswell, a 20-year-old Zahm secretary. Hall junior, died Dec. 6 from 
If he pleads innocent, a trial massive head injuries 10 hours date will be set. Because of a after being struck by a car on crowded court calendar, Saint Mary's Road. 

-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs may be submitted at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. on the day prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus­wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials and determine which items it will publish. -The Observer 

Weather 
The calm before the storm is what the weekend's weather proved to be as clear skies yielded to thunder clouds Tuesday night. Mostly cloudy and cooler today, rain ending late in the day. Partly cloudy Thursday with a high of about 60 and a low near 40 degrees. 

-The Observer 


Design Editor ................ Chris Donnelly Viewpoint Layout.. .... ... Kathleen Moran Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . Andy Fenoglio Accent Copy Editor ............. Matt Sitzer Typesetter ............... Becky Gunderman Accent Layout."... .... Carolyn Rey .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... Michael Buc Typist . . . ........... Esther Ivory News Editor.......... . ...... Chris Julka ......................................... Jenifer Conlon Copy Editor ...... ...... .... . ... Joe Markey ND Day Editor ..................... Maria Doti Sports Copy Editor. .......... Brian O'Gara SMC Day Editor ...... Sandy Cerimele Viewpoint Copy Editor . . Matt Slaughter Photographer ..................... Susan Coene 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Assodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
: 
Wednesday, April 22, 1987-page 2 

An Tostal marks end of year but also onset of new season 
An Tostal has arrived, once again, to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. This traditional event always marks the end of yet another year. 
To some, this year has been long and boring, but to others time seemed to fly by much too rapidly. I can remember last year's An Tostal just as if it happened yesterday. 
The freshmen aren't experiencing this strange feeling of time passing right under their feet yet, but this year's sophomores, juniors and seniors are beginning to meet with the dif­ferent challenges next year will offer. 
Granted, I'm only a sophomore and still nineteen. Most people would agree that I'm too young to start waxing philosophical and com­plaining about the years which seem to be creeping upon me. Perhaps these authorities are correct in their assumptions. 
But still, it's hard to believe that a few very good friends of mine are preparing themselves for their senior year while I'm trying to get used to the fact that in a few weeks I will no longer be an underclassman in college. The week before Easter break one of my junior friends, Sally Brownlee, commented that she wished time could stop right now. Sally also said she couldn't believe she was going to be a senior next year. She seemed to be voicing a cry common among many juniors. 
Knowing that in one short year (and the older I get, the shorter the years seem to be), I'll have to say goodbye to these friends bothers me a great deal at times. Please don't misun­derstand me. I'm not going to spend the majority of my junior year stewing over the impending farewells, but this situation may bot­her me at times during the next year. 
Before I end up depressing people to the point of no return, it is important to remember that for every time there is a season. The transition periods and changes that everyone has to go through can be difficult, but they are necessary. 
A good example of this necessary change oc­curs most noticeably during childhood. Every kid hates the day the Christmas tree goes down, and most parents use the universal line (or at least mine did) that if the tree never went down, then summer would never come. At Labor Day the opposite line is used, if the summer never ended, Christmas would never come. Most kids fall for these lines, and they even find comfort in these wise, old sayings (at least I did). But it was and is true that winter had to end for summer to come again, and each season had its own advantages and fun times. 
While many of my friends may be leaving their teenage years, they are entering a new and exciting part of their lives. Becoming junior or a senior represents a new stage in a person's life, but just as each season offers unique and different advantages so does each new stage. 

It's hard and frightening to look to the end of college, but it's important for upperclassmen to remember that there is life after college. This next stage should not be as dreaded as it often times is. 
The greatest fear of the future is the fear of the unknown. Not knowing what I'll be doing, where I'll be doing it and how I'll be doing are some anxieties I occasionally face when I think about what my life will be like several years from now. The future is probably not as scary as most students think it is, but college students have to realize that life will never be the same again. The world is waiting for us, but it has its positives and negatives just like life does now. 
The most difficult part about the end of the year, An Tostal time, is that students have to learn how to let go of an old year and sometimes old friendships. Even though An Tostal represents the end of another school year, it also celebrates the coming of summer and the beginning of a new year. 
The Observer Is always lqqklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
A N T 0 s T A 1 9 8 7• • • \JJ~~~-~~..~u EVENTS & LOCATIONS: 2:00 SLAM DUNK--Bookstore Courts 4:00 ND/SMC GIRLS TUG-OF-WAR--South Dining Hall 6:30 ND/SMC CHALLENGE--Front of the Rock 8:00 AIR BAND--Fieldhouse Mall ALSO: CHECK THE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS THIS WEEK FOR "LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR" CLUES!  L  

AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIETY'J
+ 

The Observer Wednesday, April 22, 1987-page 3 
HPC names representatives for the Student Senate 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 

In a brief meeting Tuesday night, the Hall Presidents' Council announced the appoint­ment of three HPC representa­tives to the Student Senate. 
Off-campus Representative Sean Evers and Flanner Hall Co-Presidents Eric Emerson and Tom Tisa were named Sen­ate representatives, HPC Co­Chairman Tim Salmon said. 
"We'll be representing the HPC at the Senate meetings, acting as a liaison between the two," said Tisa. "We're looking forward to the challenge and new responsibilities," he said. 
"We're looking .forward to promoting unity between the Hall Presidents' Council and the Senate in hopes that both 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings 
just 10 minutes from 
campus. 
You don't have to be Irish 
to enjoy life at Maple Lane 
\ partments. Our beautiful 
-~·"'"1! is reminiscent of the 
ln~t·r ·•ld Isle. Maple Lane 
111 '" uh·s professors, 
··•nplmees, graduate stu­
'"'"" .md administrators a 
,,.,,,,,,from campus. 
'" olddition we offer you a 'PI'''"' discount. 
~ 
New apartments being 
built through Spring '87 
C(JJ 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
~ 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
~ 
Intercom entrances 
~ 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors
• 
Country Kitchens
• 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 

will work more effectively to­gether," Emerson said. 
In other announcements, Badin Hall President Margo Kirchner said "Badin is in the market for a new brother dorm." Breen-Phillips Hall President Kathleen Maglicic said Breen-Phillips is selling its fooseball table and asked inter­ested parties to contact the dorm. 
Tuesday night's meeting marked the first meeting of the HPC under the direction of Bob Daley and Tim Salmon, who 
succeed  Joanie Cahill  and  
Sheila  O'Connor  as  co­ 
chairmen.  


'Distinguished Student' named 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association has named the recipient of its Distinguished Student Award for 1987. 
Jennifer Lynn Crawford,. a pre-med major from At­lanta, Georgia, was named the award-winner after being selected from a field of 55 nominations. 
The winner of the award is chosen on the basis of three criteria, according to Maria Miceli, assistant director of the alumni asso­ciation. The criteria are ser­vice to Notre Dame, service to the community and good academic standing, she said. 
"She's excelled in all the areas that make her a com­plete person," said Miceli. 
She said the unique aspect of the award is that it doesn't recognize just academic achievement or just service work as do many campus awards. Rather, the award 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&Saint Mary's Theatre production of 

by William Shakespeare Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday April 29-May 2, at 8:10pm Sunday 
May 3, at 3:10 p.m. 
Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony $4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun. Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239-5957 
Please join us at The Snite Museum of Art Annenberg Auditorium Wednesday, April 22, at 8 p.m. for the dedication of the  
Reverend Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Ritual Ball Game Collection  
Support Father Joyce by attending this special event Las Bocas Olmec, Middle Preclassic period, 900-500 B.C. Pul·hla, Mexico MASKED RITUAL BALLPLAYER Buifware, red and white painr, 6 inches Museum Purchase hy exchange, Mr. and Mrs. Terrence). Dillon 86.30  

Crawford  said  she  was  
very  happy  and  felt  
"honored  to  receive  (the  
award)."  

The association will pres­ent the award to Crawford at a May 8 luncheon. A.fter receiving the award, she will give a speech to an audience comprised of her parents, the selection committee members, and representa­tives from the 187 alumni clubs. The representatives will be in South Bend for the alumni senate. 
Crawford said she will at­tend Harvard Medical School after she is graduated from Notre Dame. She said she is cur­rently interested in cardiol­ogy. "But that may change once I'm exposed to new areas of medicine in med school," Crawford said. 

SMC student activities fee to increase 
By DEIRDRE FINN News Staff 

An increase in next year's student activities fee was an­nounced by the Saint Mary's Programming Board in a meeting Tuesday night. 
"The fee will be raised to two dollars per semester, giving the student government an es­timated six thousand dollar budget," said Smith Hashagen, Vice President of Student Af­fairs. 
"The increase will give stu­dent government the opportu­nity to have more quality events next year," said Has­hagen. 
"We have not developed a formal budget yet," said Has­hagen, "but the money will be used for guest speakers, hall and class dances, and other special events." 
Activities for Thursday's An Tostal picnic at Saint Mary's were outlined by Lisa Lawler, Traditional Events Commis­sioner of the previous student body administration at the col­lege. 
"Canoe races, bicycle races, and three legged-races are scheduled," she said, adding, "There will also be Jello fights and the balloon toss." 
A Twister Tournament will be one of the newer events at the picnic, said Lawler. "We don't have enough students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame to compete for the Guinness record," she said, "but it should still be a lot of fun." 
Saint Mary's is sponsoring another picnic, "Party on the Quad," the following Saturday, May 2, according to Hashagen. In addition to food and refresh­ments, this festival will feature the live entertainment of the rock groups "The Law" and "Freudian Slip," she said. 
"This gives the students an opportunity to relax before finals week begins," said Has­hagen. 
Commenting on the recent April 15 election run-offs Has­hagen praised the forty­percent voter turnout. 
"Things went really well this year," she said. "Even the run­offs had an excellent turnout." 

Wednesday, April 22, 1987 -page 4
The Observer 


Drug agents attacked in Bahamas 
..--------Attention All Seniors-----. 
Tee time 

Nominations for the recipient of this year's Senior Fellowship 
Sonny Nunes and Sean Sullivan stroll back to their dorm after 
Award will take place on April 21, 22 & 23 from 7-9 p.m. in 
a relaxing game of golf. Tuesday's weather was perfect for such outdoor activities. Today's weather, however, will most likely 
the LaFortune Lobby. 
not be on par with that of the past few days. 
The Senior Fellowship Award is given to a member of the present Notre Dame com­munity who has had a great influence on our class. The recipient must have affected
GF~---------------~ 
the senior class and influenced the prospects of the class. It is necessary that the individual upholds the Notre Dame spirit, and works to augment the progression of




aY'nn 

the school and its philosophies. The individual must uphold the Christian ideals and morals that are so evident in the Notre Dame community. 
Please take the time to nominate and vote for your Senior
We cater to weddings 

Fellow. Thank you. 
and rehearsal d.inners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 

The Institute for International Peace Studies 
Presents 

1404 North Ivy Road Fo1~ reservations call: ~uth Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 ..JS) 
"IN SEARCH OF PEACE: A SOVIET· AMERICAN DIALOGUE" Friday, April 24, 1987 

10:00 a.m. Panel One: "Mutual Security


Secretaries' Week 
in the 80's"
is April20··24. 
Participants: Retired U.S. and Soviet Military Officers 
Give her flowers 
and win the 
2:00p.m. Panel Two: "What are the Essential Requirements for a
Caribbean! 
Peaceful World?"
Ask about our Rainbow Bouquets. Beautiful 
Participants: Retired Soviet
flowers in alasting gift 
Military Officers and U.S.
And enter Teleflora's 
negotiators
"Win the Caribbean" Sweepstakes.* Stop in or call today. 
4:30p.m. Panel Three: "world Peace for the 
Rainbow Treasure Rainbow Lotion Box Bouquet Bottle Bouquet 
Next Generation" Participants: Retired Soviet
G1iJd! g~ & (/!It& 
Military Officers and Five 
409 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
Notre Dame Students
SOUTH BEND, IN 466.~? 
Admission tickets available at the Institute for the Inter­
272-NDND 
national Peace Studies, Room 135 Law School, on
"No.,..-_,,....,. for"""'*"s-p,ujcn"*"-l<nd• ...--.......,. 
10: ll!lotkns.a-iel"-~ P.O.IIox2D!i!l. Newpanlladl, CA-0 1987 Telef1ora 
THURSDAY, April23, 1987, between 1:00 and 4:00p.m. 


Associated Press 
MIAMI -A U.S. customs helicopter damaged by gunfire returned to its home base Tues­day as Bahamian officials in­vestigated an attack on drug agents checking the crash of a plane suspected of marijuana smuggling. 
Six U.S. and Bahamian drug agents suffered minor bruises or cuts Monday night when at least five shots were fired at the helicopter from a crowd of rock -and-bottle-throwing beach-goers several miles south of Freeport, on Grand Bahama Island. 
One bullet cracked the 
windshield in front of the pilot, 
but neither he nor the co-pilot 
was injured. Another broke a 


Speaker 
Continuedfrom page 1 
King, Jr. Award (1970) and the 
Niwano Peace Prize (1983), 
both are international honors. 
Eunice Kennedy Shriver and the Archbishop will receive the Honorary doctor 

The Observer/ Susan Coene 
six-inch hole in a side window.  tack a law enforcement team."  
The two Bahamian agents shot  Edward Ellis, a spokesman  
in the air to restore order, and  for the government's Bahamas  
the helicopter flew away safe­ News Bureau, said Tuesday af­ 
ly.  ternoon that details of the at­ 
tack were still sketchy.  
"If one of the bullets had  The incident began when  
gone through the window, it  Customs radar spotted a  
would have hit the pilot in the  suspect plane flying low over  
head," said Roger Garland,  the Bahamas, dropping bales  
acting branch chief for the U.S.  of marijuana into the ocean. A  
Customs Air Branch at Home­ Coast Guard helicopter later  
stead Air Force Base, where  recovered one bale of mari­ 
the helicopter returned Tues­ juana, Garland said.  
day.  
"It's one thing for a hostile  Meanwhile, the Blackhawk  
crowd to protect smugglers  helicopter and two other Cus­ 
who have just crash landed on  toms aircraft saw the  
the beach," said George  suspected smuggler plane  
Heavey, regional customs  crash-land on the beach near  
commissioner in Miami. "It's  the city of Freeport. The two  
another thing for a crowd to  people aboard the plane ap­ 
take aggressive action to at­ parently fled on the beach.  
of humanities degrees.  tion. The foundation also tries  
Shriver is the executive vice  to improve the manner in  
president of the Joseph P.  which society reacts with its  
Kennedy, Jr. Foundation and  mentally retarded citizens.  
chairman of Special Olym­ 
pics International.  The Joseph P. Kennedy  
Mrs. Shriver became direc­ Foundation is best known for  
tor, in 1957, of the foundation  instituting the Special Olym­ 
which studies the causes of  pics which provides a compet­ 
mental retardation in the at­ itive sports environment for  
tempt to prevent the condi­ the mentally retarded .  


---------~---------------­
The Observer Wednesday, April 22, 1987-page 5 
Security Beat 
12:45p.m.: A Dillon Hall resident re­ported that his vehicle was broken Into and his stereo and speakers were stolen. Entry was made to the 
vehicle by slashing the convertible top. An estimate of damage and loss is unknown at this time. 
3:55p.m.: Security received a report from the Center for Social Concerns that a television and two VHS players came up missing out of the audio-visual room. The room was locked at the time of the theft. There were no signs of forced entry. 
Friday, April 17 
2:05p.m.: A Lewis Hall resident re­ported the theft of her unlocked bicycle outside her dorm. The bike was valued at $25.00. 
Saturday, April 18 
1:34 a.m.: A Grace Hall resident re­ported the theft of his wallet off his desk In his unlocked room. Just prior to his discovery of the theft, the vic­tim observed a black male, 5'10", running from the area of his room down the hallway. The victim pursued the subject upon realizing the loss, but was unable to locate him. Victim estimates his loss at $30.00. 
10:30 p.m.: Security received an­other report of a rock shattering the windshield of a vehicle as It was being driven down Notre Dame Av­enue near the Cedar Grove Ceme­tery. 
Monday, April 20 
11:50 a.m.: A resident of Dillon Hall reported the theft of a computer from his room during Easter weekend. The room, which was locked upon leaving for break, was found unlocked upon return. The Item is valued at $1,700.00. 
2:15 p.m.: A Pasquerilla East resi­dent reported the theft of her $450.00 bicycle while it was locked outside her dorm. 
7:50p.m.: A female student reported that while she was taking a shower a white male approximately 25 years old, brown hair, medium build, came Into the shower room and was peeping over the door. Another res­Ident ol the dorm witnessed the sub­ject running out of the restroom and out of the dorm. Security searched the area for the subject but to no avail. 
Tuesday, April 21 
12:14 a.m.: Security apprehended one of the three subjects who had stolen a bicycle from outside the En­gineering Building after pursuing the subjects on foot. The suspect was a female black youth. She was released to the custody of her step­father pending a referral to the Parkvlew Juvenile Facility. The other two suspects, a female and male, were Identified by name and will also be referred. The bicycle was recovered. 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"AIY' !JOlt OK lu drit~·l" 
"Whalx a.fi•w lwers!" 
"Did !JIIII hat~' /m IIIIlCh /u d1·iukt" 
"1'111 }H't.1i,dl!lfillf'." 
"Yim'tl(' had loollludllo driuk, lei Ill<' drive." "Nobody drive,~ 11111 car but me." 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KILL A FRIENOSHIR 
Anti-VIolence Activist 
Cenler lor Teaching Non-VIolence & NCTV lull-lime atall. Lodging & $6000/yr. ReMarch on aggr..alon. clearlnghouM, publlahlng & lobbying agalnal violence Including TV, film, war loya, aporta, erollca. Nexllo U llllnola. Sludenl lo.lna deferable. 217-384-11120. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 01820 

ONEHOUR 


MOTOPHOTO'" 

ONEHOUR ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO.. • Pictures ready in one hour MOTOPHOTO.. UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality SCOTTSDALE MALL 272-8243 291-3096 
----~~-~o--sj~o--------------FREE____________Graduall~~;speciar-­
_ 
OFF FILM DEVELOPING  EXTRA SET OF PRINTS  24 Wallet Size Portraits  
Wrth this coupon. receive '3.00 OFF on a 36 exposure, '2.00 OFF on a 24 exposure. •1.00  With this coupon, receive a FREE Extra Set of · h · f 1 •Prints. w en presenting one ro 11 o co or pnnt film (C-41 process) for processing and print- With this coupon receive 24 wallet size portraits when purchasing any regularly• ed ka  
OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a roll  ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limited to  pnc  portrait  pac  ge  at  ONE  HOUR  
of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro- one roll per coupon per customer.  Not valid  MOTO PHOTO. One coupon per custom­ 
cesPhoslng Cand prinffting at On::our b~:So to. oupon ° ers may no com '" •Expiresjune30.1987. ,.~­ with any other promotion. Expires: june 30 1987.• ~­ er. Not valid with any other promotion. Ex • •J 30 1987p1res. une • ·rw.IKNII  

l WB ·-------------~~---------·!; WB ·---------------------------~ WB=!~;:';~~~~---~~~~-­



AIM H 
FORMULATE YOUR FUTURE 
Engineering and science students, the Air Force needs you. Your degree plus Air Force ROTC equals a commission as an Air Force officer. You'll really use your degree and work at the forefront of technology. Find out about our success formula and Air Force ROTC scholarships. Con­tact: 

LEADERSHIP EXCEllENCE STARTS HUE 

... __  - ~;~­ ......·,.,.....  
-,  
}.  .  '  
Professor Lou  The Observer/ Susan Coene  

Lou Holtz brings his coaching expertise into the classroom as he addrt:sses the lssuesof management. Holtz spoke to a group of management students Tuesday in the Hayes-Healy Center. 
tulations,
a


Congr 
TO THE CLASS OF 1987 NOW GRADUATE 

Thursday, April 16 
12:04 a.m.: A Fisher Hall resident reported the theft of his bicycle from outside the Engineering Building. At the time of the theft, the bike was locked with a U-shaped lock, which, according to the manufacturer, can­not be cut even with a bolt cutters. Since the lock was only secured around the frame and tire and not locked to a stationary object, however, It is believed that the bike was carried away. 
2:22 a.m.: The Assistant Rector of Grace Hall reported that some un­known person(s) had broken Into the Food Sales Room In the dorm. There was no sign of forced entry and It appears that the perpetrator(s) may have a key for the room. At this time, prior to an actual Inventory being taken, it is estimated that at least $98.00 In products were stolen. 
8:12a.m.: A Flanner Hall resident reported that his vehicle was broken Into and the stereo stolen while It was parked in the D2 lot. Entry was gained by removing the plastic hardtop found off the vehicle by the victim. Loss is estimated at $100.00. 
9:50a.m.: An off campus student re­ported the theft of a small bag con­taining his wallet from a desk In the Memorial Library. The value of the book is estimated at $15.00. 
11:50 a.m.: Security Investigated a non-injury accident on Juniper Rd. and Door Rd. An estimate of damage is unknown at this time. 
WE CAN HELP YOU GET IT' 
A., nn Uf":Omin~ ~nHluah:.. yu~ liCM:rvc it _lnt of .:rc<lil lor rca.:hinl! 1hos •mport01nl m•lc­'lonc m your Ilk All nl us al Tnynlil woultl lik~ 111 '""llmluhll~ you ;ultl 1~11 you llhlllll ;1 'pedal olkr frnm Toynl;l Molor Cr~tlil Corpor;~linn 1ha1 "'n ~·w ynu lhc .-rctlll Lk·~rv~ In huy a Ill''-' Toyultl ~.:tar nr lrm:k. 
WIIJ h~ rC\jUirctl. 
All ynu lli.l\l'ln dn i~ nu.:ct thrcl' hia~il'l'CJIH.Ii1 itm~: he~vc r.rntJfnf il ct~n:..:r-uricnlcd jnh nr j''h nfkr•. nu ,.,h·,.-r,l' rn:dil hi~tnry. and proof nf in~ur.. htlily. 
()net: y•m'n: appnl\l'LI••. ytm ..:a_n lake ~·tmr ,:he lit.'"' tlf lh~ IIHl~l "'~"·illllf ~~~~~ .. ,r n...·w l.'ttr~ ant.I lrut.·L~ 'ltt)Util hu~ ...·,·cr ufkrnl. uu.:lu•lmg lht.· illl-ncw l urullu I· X-lh <•I S. 


WQf2 WORL~u~s~E!fR~I~P. ~~~~~TION® ~ NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
JAKE ~~::E.. ROBERTS 
KAMALA
VS THE UGANDAN 
HEADHUNTER WITH MR. FUJI 
Lumberjack Match No Escaping the Ring I 
GEORGEA::~L·STEELE 
vs RANDY --:.~c;,'!o SAVAGE 
WtTH ELIZABETH 
5 OTHER GREAT MATCHES, RICKY "THE DRAGON" STEAMBOAT, THE HART FOUNDATION, HERCULES, 
THE BRITISH BULLDOGS, THE CAN AM CONNECTION, AND MOREl 
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE ACC BOX OFFICE, SEARS (UP MALL & ELKART), ST. JOSEPH BANK (MAIN OFFICE), NIGHTWINDS (NORTH VILLAGE MALL, 100 CENTER, NILES), JUST FOR THE RECORD (T & C SHOPPING CENTRE), ELKHART TRUTH AND SUPERSOUNDS (ELKHART). WATCH WWF WRESTLING ON WSBT FRI. 11:30 PM & SAT. 10:30 PM. 



"ie~~~t_O__i_D_t

______________w_edn-esday_,Ap-ril22_,1987--pa-ges 
Governme~nt must hear from the people 

South Bend, Indiana is miles away by the Congress, Executive, Judiciary, from Washington, DC; in literal terms or growing Bureaucracy. We do not see it's distance is almost 700 miles, but in this at times in South Bend, Indiana, figurative terms they are almost an en­but often we don't even open our eyes. tire world apart. Sure, we see the headlines in the South Bend Tribune and even The Ob­server which concern deficits in trade, Scott Bearby national debt, Irangate, welfare reform, and that the buzzword within "The Beltway" -"competitiveness." I
congressional record 
have started a column on each of these topics to contribute to the Viewpoint 
-

But in comparison, South Bend is no section while out in DC, but I would different than any other town or city in never finish. The question I would al­America. The difference between the ways ask is "Are people really con­
District of Columbia and everywhe1~e cerned enough to read more about this else is that while government exists topic?" every place else, in Washington, gov­ernment is the only thing that exists. The truth is, though, that we have to Take for example the definition "power • care because decisions being made (or outage." Like any other city, Washing­not made) do affect us. Even more, ton is surrounded by an expresswa:r; they will have a profound effect on our here, it is called "The Beltway." The future. The Presidential race has begun basic mentality here many times is that (for both 1988 and 1992). This is an op­there is no life outside "The Beltway." portunity to ask some difficult ques­This is the nation's capital after all; tions which we can't allow ourselves to local news here is everyone else's na­pass up, both inside and outside The tional news. Therefore it is a town Beltway. Let's look beyond the 30­which isolates, as is evidenced by many second TV advertisements and mud­of our lawmakers who refuse to recog­slinging to see who can run a campaign nize our nation's problems. based on substance. 
One gets the impression that govern­The fundamental system of govern­ment is treated as a game sometimes ; ment is a good one; it has lasted over but unfortunately our deficit problems 200 years, after all -the Constitution is cannot be cured by Monopoly mone~r, even older than some lawmakers out Oliver North was not simply playing here. The system is fine, but it has not "G.I. Joe," and the President is not par­been required to be effective. Although ticipating in a game of "Twenty Quen­it is impossible to reach someone by tions" in accounting for the Iran-Contra phone on the first try because that are difficulties. This is the place where "in a meeting," there isn't a lot of ef­PACman refers to Congressmen taking fectiveness. Instead, meetings are held contributions from Political Action on being effective, but not many people committees and not the video game. come to these... They have another 
But, ju~t as Washington tends to is­meeting scheduled in conflict, of 

olate ~tself from reality sometimes, course. 
South Bend and "everyplace else" are 
as guilty for allowing this to happen. We have a right to demand effective­
DC is not only the place where national ness -we have taken the time to elect 
decisions are made which affect the our representatives; now we have to 
United States; DC is where the deci­have a concern over what they ac­
sions are made which affect all of us complish or don't accomplish. It's a 
each and every day. lonely and isolated within The Beltway; 
Too often our perceptions are that na­let your government know what's on 
tional government does not reach do\\ n your mind. 
to the little guy (except of course for 
income taxes). The reality, however, Scott Bearby is a junior govern­
says that there is not a single aspect of menVALPA major and enrolled in the 
American life which escapes attentic,n Washington Semester Program. 

Doonesbu 
HELP ME ()(ff HERE.l I WANT 70 KJo.Ja(JlA/HAT YOUR PAI?ENT5 HAVE TAI/6fiT YOl/ANI?lA/HAT 7HEYHAveN'T! TALK 
7r) 7HE lJOClOR, KIOS! 

r--r;--­
Garry Trudeau 

NO, I JUST F/6-ANOIAJHAT f)()
UM... YI.:AH, MY SO YOU IXJN'T 
YOIJR PAREN75, ARE

URE TH/3 0/Jt:JS YOiJMAI</3 7JIOS/3
NAMe~ ,lJEANI? TAKe ANY 
TH&Y 5TATIONE/J OVER·

ARe A6AINST (XJ05 T08/3,Ja;"!
IGUe5SIKNOtU PR&""'ITJ"''"""~ 
~S? I}'ri TRYIN6
MO!ifOf: THIS STUFF. 1VfiJIIVTV.7. 

CONC/3PTION. USTEN UP, PEO­
7r) UNIJf3R:'STANO,
BUTITJl/STPtsd 

PI£1 ·''"""''""' Joe! ',vp-....-.,_
MJRRYMe 
Quote of the day 

"What counts is not necessarily the size of the dog in the fight-it's the size of the fight in the dog." 
Dwight D. Eisenhower 
(1890-1969) 


Ihe Ol•server 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Collegu. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The neNs is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 

P.O. Box Q 
Activities abound on campus for students 
Dear Editor: 
How many more times will the adage "There's nothing to do at Notre Dame" be uttered in the hopes of justifying an­other "lost weekend?" Mter reading Mark McLaughlin's editorial concern­ing the lack of activities available to Notre Dame-St. Mary's students, I wonder if perhaps Mr. McLaughlin and I are on different campuses. In my mind, that weekend was not a "lost weekend," but one in which so many alternatives existed that someone could not possibly participate in all of them. On campus alone, the number of oppor­tunities available could not be counted on both hands ... Peter Thorpe Blues Band, Collegiate Jazz Festival, Beaux Arts Ball, The Bottom Line Band, Fis­her Hall Regatta, Mud Volleyball, Chicago Trip, Mr. Stanford Contest, 22 Cave Gods Band, Sophomore Siblings Weekend, Bookstore Basketball, "Top Gun," and Theodore's. 
In just one weekend the various or­ganizations on campus; Student Gov­ernment, HPC, the Classes, SAB, and Clubs; have appealed to the musical, cultural, athletic, and social needs of the Student Body. Granted these diverse events may not appeal to all, but to say the needs are not being met is a misnomer. 
If an enjoying evening of jazz or dan­cing to a live band is not appealing, then look for something else, perhaps in the South Bend community. Van­lines, currently sponsored by Student Government, runs to and from Univer­sity Park and Scottsdale Malls. The Morris Civic Auditorium regularly sponsors events. And contrary to popular belief, this area does have some fine restaurants. 

There are a number of activities planned not only for the weekends but during the week as well. Please do not blame the various campus organiza­tions for your lack of social life. We can "spell it out," and do so every weekend with a variety of activities simply waiting to be attended. 
Janel Blount SAB Manager 

Clean-Up volunteers thanked for effort 
Dear Editor: 
On April 11th, fifty Notre Dame stu­dents connected with the Great Hunger Clean-Up volunteered to landscape and clean-up several blocks in the North­east Neighborhood through Neighbor­hood Housing Services. 
By participating in this event, stu­dents demonstrated their concern about South Bend community and about world hunger. They enthusiastically worked to get the job done. In spite of bad weather, the scheduled landscap­ing and clean-up work was completed. Sophia Twarog and the Great Hunger Committee did an impressive job coor­dinating the project. Neighborhood residents helped out with the work. The whole effort gave us a boost in working with several buildings that need rehabilitation work. 
Several blocks in the Northeast neighborhood have been improved as a result of the student's work. Our sin­cere thanks to everyone who helped to make the project such a success. 
Anne Mannix Executive Director Neighborhood Housing Services 


General Board 
Editor·in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Sports Editor ................................. Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor .......................... .... Michael Naughton Saint Mary's Editor ..........................Marilyn Benchik Photo Editor..... . ..................................... Jim Carroll 
Business Manager............ . . Brian P. Murray Advertising Design Manager... ... Michael Whitton Advertising Manager .......... ........ Melinda Chapleau Production Manager .................. ... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager.......... . . Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager.................... . . ..... Shawn Sexton 
Controller.........................  ... Tracy Sch1ndele  
Graphic Arts Manager.  . ..... Laura Stanton  
Development Manager..  ...  Michael Shannon  

opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Founded November 3, 1966 





Accent 
Wednesday, April 22, 1987-page 7 

The Face only a mother could love 
H
ave you ever looked at a picture of yourself taken a few years ago and asked "Why did I wear my pants hiked up so high?" or "How could I have ever parted my hair there?" That's the way I am with my face. 
I guess I was cursed in a lot of ways, but one of the ways I was really cursed was that I have never had a decent photograph taken of me. Pictures of me usually call to mind words like "pinhead," "freak." or "lunatic." A common remark on family portraits Is "Boy, what a nice picture of everybody ... too bad Kevin looks like a reptile... " I was pulled over for speeding once and the officer laughed so hard at my driver's license that he had to let me go. Very funny. 

Kevin Walsh 
Behind the screen door 
The bottom line is that I'm about as photogenic as your average urine sample. Not to insult any of your above 
-
... 
t ·' ...I 
average urine samples, but I'm just not. On the 
Photogenicosity Scale (which I just made up), I rankjust 


ahead of lumps of clay, 
coathangers, dead aardvarks, 
and lintballs. It isn't pretty in "Onfortunately, 
Figure of a masked ritual baUplayer In traditional dress. 
Snite dedicates its own 
south-of -the-border 'ballplayers' 
SPECIAL TO THE OBSERVER 
I 
n recognition of his more than 35 years of dedicated service In maintaining high moral and academic standards In all phases of the atheletlc program at Notre Dame, the Snlte Museum's collection of Pre-Colombian ballgame equip­ment and related sculpture from Meso-America will be named In honor of Fr. Joyce this evening at 8 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. 
The collection conststs ot many exemplary pieces of bal­lgame equipment most of which was crafted between 1000 B.C. and 500 A.D. In­cluded In the collection are ball-court markers, a protective yolceh, and ceramic ballgame figures. A recently acquired, fully dressed, masked ceramic ball player dated to I000 B.C. will be added to the collection this evening at the dedication in honor of Fr. Joyce. 
"This piece of sculpture is the best example of its type, in terms of quality and condition, that I am aware of," said Doug Bradley, curator of the Snite Museum. 
The ritual ballgame was played In Meso-America from before 1500 B.C. until the Spanish Conquest when it was outlawed In an effort to remove important aspects of Indian life to speed their subjugation. The game Included elements of modern basketball, soccer, and jal-alal. 

Played In high walled, paved x-courts called "tlachtli," mea­suring 125 feet long and 20 to 50 feet wide, the ballgame is · believed to have provided an outlet for aggression between neighboring villages, as well as figuring prominantly into their seasonal religious ceremony. The gods themselves were believed to have been skilled players in their heavenly courts. 
The number of players varied from two to eleven or more on each team. Despite local vari­ance In the rules, the main objective was always the same: to gain points rather than ground. Thus, the ball was constantly kept in motion and in the air, using the elbows, knees and hips. A team scored most commonly whenever the opposing team failed to return the 5 pound solid rubber ball, and it fell to the court. 
While there were several 
other ways to score, the most 
Important of all goals occurred 
when a player was able to 
knock the ball through one of 
the stone rings, barely bigger 
than the ball itself, set vertical­
ly, high upon the center of 
each of the two long walls. 
Whenever one of these goals 
ocurred (a rare and special oc­
casion), all other points were 
discounted and the scoring 
team pronounced victorious. 
Since the ball was usually not allowed to come into direct contact with hands, feet or calves, and was kept in play with the elbows, hips, and knees, these areas had to be afforded protection. Elbow and knee pads, thigh protectors and gloves were generally sewn from gullded cotton, while heavy belts (called yokes). crafted of leather, basketry, or stone protected the players' waists and kidneys. Many fine Pre-Columbian sculptures, In­cluding the one to be dedi­cated this evening In honor of Fr. Joyce, show ballplayers In an Impressive array of the equipment described above. 
Players were often seriously injured and death was not an uncommon fate for those who took the court. but the laurels for the victor were so great that the obvious dangers were not considered a hinderance. The winners were showered with honors and gifts, while many members of the losing team frequently found themselves being offered as sacrifices to the gods of the winning team. 
Everyone is invited to attend the dedication ceremony tonight in honor of Fr. Joyce's lifetime of dedication to the ideals of this University. Stu­dents, faculty and friends are also encouraged to take the time In the future to visit the new Joyce Collection. 
more ways than one. 
Well-meaning people always try to make me feel better by saying "Oh, come on. Not everybody can be photogenic," as they smile tlteir perfectly photogenic smiles. I resist the urge to throw acid in their faces. 
To ease my own mind, I usually try to come up with a few folks who are less photogenic than I am. I never get past Bella Abzug. John Hinckley, and Jim Bakker's wife, Tamml. This, of course, doesn't make me feel any bet­ter. 
It's just that it seems like the people who are having the. most fun are the ones who seem to be the most photogenic. At least they're always having a good time in the pictures of them. In pic­tures of me I always look like I've just been poisoned and I know it. 
'' The bottom line is that I'm about as photogenic as your average urine sample." 
John F. Kennedy was photogenic. You always see him laughing on the beach or horsing around with his kids, and it looks good. I guess this means that I'll never be one of the beautiful people. They wouldn't let me In Camelot with my photo portfolio. 
Of course, the more I think about it, this really limits me. I could never be a politician. Would you vote for The Face? Would you trust your tax dol­lars to The Face? After what Nixon did? No way. Even I wouldn't. I could never be a TV newscaster. The Face staring out at millions of television viewers every night at 6:00 would be sure to cause at least nightly panic, if not a few grisly deaths. 
It also depresses me that The Face limits other peoples' 
'my current incarnation' looks a lot like Satan." 
memories of me. I bet there's somebody's parents out there today sitting In their living room going over old pictures wondering who the 6-year-old with the sex degenerate's smile was and why they let him play with their son. "Well, whoever he was," I hear them saying. "from the look on his face here I'd guess that he's a seriously deranged multiple felon today if he's even alive." Years from now, there will be some girl with a picture of me at a dance wondering what could have possibly possessed her to come within miles of The Face. 
Even my memories are lim­ited to my family's pictures, to a certain extent. In pictures I progress from a formless blob of drooling fat. to what my own loving father once described as "a miniature Winston Chur­chill." I go from a punchdrunk baby trying to learn how to walk. to a big-eared buck­toothed goof In an oversized baseball hat; from an adoles­cent geek with a big head and 12-lnch nostrils, to a short­haired high school grad with Charles Manson eyes. And, fi­nally, now, we have my current incarnation. 
Unfortunately, "my current incarnation" looks a lot like Satan. Satan Is probably much more photogenic than that. 
You might think that I've been exaggerating a lot in this column, but the proof is right here. What you're holding in your grimy little hands is a per­fect example of The Face In action. It's the kind of picture you might see under the heading "Ex-Marine Goes On Killing Spree" or "Manhunt On For Retarded Child Molester." Most weeks, that picture is the funniest thing about my column. 
Someone once told me that the Indians believe that every picture taken of you contains a piece of your soul. This is obvi­ously false. Somehow I know that my soul Isn't that beastly. 
-~----------------------­
Wednesday, April 22, 1987-page 8 The Observer 



Sports B 
The Milwaukee Brewers lost to the The ND track team has signed three top­The Blue-Gold Game will be played Chicago White Sox, 7-1, lant night, ending their rated recruits. The signees are Richard Culp from Saturday, April 25, at 1:30 p.m. The 57th Annual record-tying 13-game winning streak to begin the Nappanee, Ind., Robert Harris of Simi, Calif., and spring football game is sponsored by the Notre season. The Brewers had tied the major league Mark Lavery from Balston Spa, N.Y. -The Observer Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. Students will be record held by the 1982 Athmta Braves.. -The Ob­admitted upon presentation of an ID card at Gates server 15 and 16 only. General admission tickets are avail­The Irish wrestling team also received able in advance at Gate 10 of the ACC from 9-5, two national letters of intent. Four-time Kansas Monday through Saturday. Prices are: $3.00 for 
In National League action Tuesday, state champion Todd Layton, and two-time Ala­adults, $4.00 on game day, $1.50 for kids, $2.00 on Cincinnati nipped San Diego, 5-4; Chicago downed bama state champion, Jeff Massey, will compete game day. -The Observer St. Louis, 5-4; Houston defeated Atlanta, 7-6 and for the Irish next season. Layton is projected in the New York beat Pittsburgh, !1-6. -Associated Press 150-potind division, while Massey is expected to The women's regatta annual mandatory 
wrestle in the heavyweight division. -The Observer meeting will be held tonight at the boathouse on St. Joseph's Lake for the regatta this weekend. 
In American League action Tuesday, The ND volleyball team received two Texas defeated Baltimore, 6-4; Boston shut out letters of intent. Chris Rosso, a middle hitter from The Saint Mary's track team won their Kansas City, 8-0; Minnesota whipped Seattle, 6-1; Arvada, Colo., and Rachel Hall, a middle hitter II_leet at Marion College last Tuesday, and finished Cleveland skunked Toronto, :;-0 and New York beat from Neola, Iowa will join Art Lambert's squad. SIXth of ten teams at the district meet Saturday at Detroit, 3-1. -Associated Press -The Observer Anderson College. -The Observer 

The oe..n. Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. The oe..n.saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts clasalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfieds is 3 p.m. All clasalfleds must be prepaid, either In pen!OI'I or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Class:ifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physiciar.psychologist) who deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd be sensitive to a child's needs and can provide a warm loving home where a child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect (212) 724-7942. 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
Wordprocessing· Typing 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 
UNIVERSITY RESUME Profeaalonal Reaumaa Student Ratea Near the Mall 272-e338 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$··· Non-texts for $$$tredit next fall. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI 10·530, ph. 233·2342 
PRO-TYPE Quality worik, word processing avail­able. Rea.Onable S. 2n·5833. 
\ LOST/FOUND l 
LOST: 20-inch gold chain on Stepan Courts last Wednesday, 4·1 during Bookstore game. If found, please call Vin at £2159. 
LOST: Black Wallet, at Senior Bar Wed. night· !D's, photos, etc. of sentimental value. Much appreciated if returned. Call Connie 2n·3545. Reward. 
FOUND: Woman's wedding band, out· side law school. Call Gary at 234·8984. 
FOUND: Sunglasses in front of B-P Thurs. night Call 2187 or stop by 225 Grace 
FOUND: AIWA headset in cashier office 1Q/4 call matt at 1682 to identity and claim 
lost, grey Boston College sweatshirt, Stepan 3, Friday at the Bookstore games, please return to Badin 307-3713 
LOST: A brown Wilson Aggressor model basketball. Last seen before the 2:30 game on Bookstore 1 0 on Saturday, April 
11. It was a Iitle overinflated. His my next door neighbor's from home, so Its return would be greatly appreciated. H found please call Tim at 3450. 
LOST: HP 11C CALCULATOR ON THURSDAY, APRIL 9 IF FOUND PLEASE CAU £1352 AND ASK FOR PETE 
LOST::SIIver Bracelet at Bridget's Apr 2nd Hlph Sentimental Value-Reward Call Kathy284-4371 
LOST: Black purse, wallet, and check· bool<8 in D1 lot. You can keep the cash, credH, and checks (they've all been can­called anyway) but PLEASE return my ID or license so I can go out again. Call 287·3940 or send toP. 0. Box 972, Notre Dame. Thanks. 
LOST: KODAK 35mm CAMERA by the PW vending machines Thurs night,MI at about 3am. I need It back desperate· lyiiiPiease be honest and return it. If found please call Julie at 1308. 
FOUND: beige scar1 at the Charity Ball. To claim call 3896. 
Lost: Citizen's watch • Roman numerals with brown leather bend. Somewhere on SMC campus. Please call 284-4288. 
Losl: at Turtle Creek. Blue Drexel BasE ball Jacket with £8 on n. Please call Mich olle at 294-5118. 
FOUND: Woman's prescription eyeglasses at bus stop near Law School on Monday, April 13. Call 272· 7949 to ident1fy. 
Dark blue, Puma warmup jacket with keys on N.D. keychain on 4114 Stepan Book store courts. Please contact Paul at 234·".'564. Keys are only set I heve. 
[ FORRENT 
6 bedroom 4-6 students $400500 & utilitii•S. Security system 234 6688 
SUM STOR:all belonlngs(incl lur)suf~>~;ecure Bill M.2327416 
FURI~ISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL683· 8889 
FURI~ISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 2n­3884 288·0955 
3 BEDROOM APART For 87·88 school year 0 artially Furnished $ 45Gtno. CALL 233 (;298 
SUM 1.1ER SPECIAL! I 3 Bedroom Apart­ment $ 300tno. avail. in fall for $ 450tno. CALL 233 6298 
:3UMMER SCHOOL SPECIAL 
2 BAs remaining in large house on ND Ava. Call 255·5852 or 234-6661 
[ WANTED 
WO~ K FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS SUM 1.1ER. 683-8889 
DO 'IOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND I NEEil A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WILL BE ~~ LONG·TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YCIU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. 
3UMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway cam~, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, arts&::ralts, tennis, all land and water sport 1, gymnastics, drama, pianooj)lay lor show~. judo, photograph)', dance, com­puter;, nature, wilderness, model rock· etry, guHar, radio, video,archery, year­book, woodworking, RN and typists. Wrlte:Camp Emerson, 5· Brassie Rd, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779· 9406 
Here for the summer and need a placa to stuy? I need one female roomete to sharE Turtle Creek apt. Call SMC-5239 Hinterested. 
ALAUKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT • fisheries. Eam $600 plu&Week In can· nery, $8,00Q-$12,000 plus lor two mont11s on fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary, Mala or Famala.. Get the early start that is ne:essary. For 52-page employment booklet, send $5.95 to: M&L Research, Box 114008, Seattle, WA 98124. 
SUMMER JOBS 'LL LANDWATER SPORTS PREI;TtGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CAU. COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­INGS 914-381-4224. 
Needsd: A ride to1rom Milwaukee or Sheb,ygan, WI for Easter break. Call Paul 2287. 
Here for the summer and need a place to st1 y? I need one maiEt roommate to share a Hickory Village Apt. beginning mid·May. Call 2n·3093 evenings. 
Need summer babysitlers wtth own trans· portalion. Pick your hrs. Auna 287·3315 Need a female roommate lor summer maybe fall too. Call Maureen at SMC 5243. 
WANTED BLUEMLE lor U.M.O.C He's UGLY to the BONE 
NEED RIDER leaving 517, &8 to D.C. KAREN SMC 4011 ASAP 
INDIANAPOLIS-BOUND GRADS! female roommate needed June 1st call: Mary Beth 284-5134 
FOR SALE 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through lhe U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call 1·312-742·1142 Ext. 7316 
1986 TREK BIKE for sale. Best offer. Call Pat 2n-B535 
cjt 
cjf 
cjt 
cjf 
...cjf t·shlrts still on sale ... all slzea ... call 2139 anytime... 
...five buckstll... 
cjl 
cjl 
cjf 
cjl 
FOR SALE : 19n Corolla SR5, air, 73000 mi, ideal student car price negoti· able, call 239-5795 
Head Ski Suit Mens 1 piec&lnediumworn 6x's, cost $200, now $75. Ski boof&/Aolomite: size 11 112, like new, $60. Sally 239· 7336. 
FOR SALE: TAKARA 10-SPEED BIKE Technics Stereo Speakers-75 watts $85o!Jair Technics Quartz Turntable $30 Technics cassette deck $65 CALL TOM 1702 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE NEIL DIAMOND TIXI call 2n·8347 
HELPII I NEED GRAD TICKETS. IT'S NOT MY FAULT THAT THEY'RE GIVING 375 SEATS TO THE BLOODY MEDIA, BUT I'VE GOT TO GET MY MOM DAD BROTHER SISTER SISTER GRANDMOM rF41NTO THE ACC ... NOT THE CCE ... AND THEY'U ONLY GIVE ME THREE TICKETS ... AFTER I GAVE THEM $40,000 ... (gratitude? HAHII) HELPII WE'RE TALKING BUCKS HEREIII PLEASE CALL KEVIN, 2113­2138, ANYTIME DAY OR NIGHTIII 
Let me make an offer tor 1 graduation ticket. Call Tom at 233-5065 
................................................................ 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Are you going to be here for SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
11 so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues of the newspaper. The jobs are varied and, 11 you are inter· ested in newspaper training in your seare time, call The Observer ofticas and ask tor Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
The Observer 
and 
Special Olympics 
NEEDS YOUIII 
AVON Spring.Summer Colors Save $$$ call 287·1032 
DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FULL· TIME JOB, AND I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. 
I desperately need 2 Graduation tickets. 11 you help me, I will ensure your financial future, and finance your Senior Week Call Mark at 2339. 
OK this is my final offer for Graduation tickets. I'll give you my sister and my roommate for two Graduation tickets. They do not even have to be together. Call Mark at 2339. 
ROLAND BLUEMLE IS U.M.O.C. 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$··· Non-texts tor $$$tredil next fall. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI 1 0·530 ph. 233·2342 
DONNA, LEE, MICHELLE, AND M.T.: THANKS FOR MAKING 21 SO SPECIAL HERE'S TO NELSEN THE WAITER AND FUNNY LOOKING HATS THAT MAKE YOU FEEL A LITTLE MEXICAN ... YOU GUYS ARE THE BEST CONI 
TRACIE T. FETTERS: THERE ARE FEW WORDS I COULD SAY THAT WOULD EXPRESS HOW I FEEL, SO I'll JUST TELL YOU THAT BILL CALLED AND SAID HIS NEW ROOM NUMBER IS 227... SOMEHOW YOU MANAGED TO MAKE ME A HAPPY 21 YEAR OLD EVEN THOUGH I SPENT MORE TIME IN A PHONE BOOTH THAN I EVER THOUGHT I WOULD ON MY BIRTHDAY... LETS HOPE BIRTHDAY WISHES CAN COME TRUE, EVEN IF IT WAS All HIS FAULTill THANK YOU, MY FRIEND ... A TOAST TO SAND IN THE WIND AND THE IDIOT THAT DIDN'T EVEN KNOW SHE WAS THROWIN' IT (I WAS TOO BUSY NOT HAVING TIME TO BE FUNNY) CHARLES WILLIAMS AND LIFE FOREVER LOVE, CONI (OTHERWISE KNOWN AS DELUTED) 
Foi.i';,ji):·"A··ciiPFiiicH.Au·N··w;:;o·wii:i. 
MAKE A DIFFERENCE ... WAKE UP THE ECHOES, BRI-GUYI 
roC:iii....sM"i;:;;·;..··vau····:;.·Fie-..··siiiNa 
SCOPEDII 
Th~~k·Y~~"si'.""j"~·d;·P:N:····· ..··"''""""""""" 
oN·:r·iie'"Ei:i.G"E.o"N·:riiii·e·iiaii·oN":rii'E 
EDGE ON THE EDGE ON THE EDGE ON THE EDGE 0 N T 
HEEDGETHEATERCOMP 
A N Y 1111 TONITE TONITE TONITE 
AFTER THE AIR BAND CONTEST 
FIELDHOUSE MALL TONITE TONITE 
TONITE AFTER THE AIR BAND CON­
TEST FIELDHOUSE MALL FUNNY 
FUNNYFUNNYFUNNYFUNNYFUNNY 
FUNNY FUNNY FUNNY FUNNY FUN 
AFTER THE AIR BAND CONTESTIIII ON THE EDGE THEATER COMPANY on the edge... 20 forget your booka for awhile • have a good time ·live On the Edge 
"THE PURPOSE OF LIFE, AFTER All, IS TO LIVE IT, TO TASTE EXPERIENCE TO THE UTMOST, TO REACH OUT EAGERLY AND WITHOUT FEAR FOR NEWER AND RICHER EXPERIENCE." I wish to do exactly that at Purdue this weekend. Desperately seeking a ride to West Lafayette. Call Patti £2966. 
Andy H., I Love You. I Want You. Michelle 
Dear Sloth, You Are A Daddy. Lova Margaret 
needed: rides to and from the U2 CON· CERT in Chicago lor two people. $$$$ call Paul2287. 
BREWER FEVERII • CATCH ITII TRUE BLUE TO THE BREW CREWII · THIRTEEN IN A ROWII PICKED TO FINISH IN LAST PLACE IN THE AMER· ICAN LEAGUE EAST THEY ARE NOW LEAVING EVERYONE IN THEIR DUST. THE ONLY REASON THE YANKEES ARE ONLY 3 GAMES BACK IS THAT THEY HAVENT PLAYEDTREBIE'S THUMPERS VETil THE MAGIC NUM· BER IS 1491 HAVE A BREW AND CATCH THE FEVER· BREW CREW IN '8711 
YOUTH IN ASIA and BLIND RIVER Thursday, 10 p.m. · 2 a.m. Duke's Bistro 
no joke! last chance to see YOUTH IN ASIA Duke's Bistro Thursday, 1 0 to 2 a.m. 
with 
BLIND RIVER 
BLIND RIVER 
with 
YOUTH IN ASIA Thursday, Duke's Bistro 
Father Ted, Lou Holtz, Digger Phelps, Emil Hofman, Mike Heckler & Monk Mal­loy... Everyone wants ANDY BRAUN FOR UMOC!!I Give in to paer pressure! Everyone else does ill Vote ANDY "He's hideous" BRAUN for UMOCIIII 
Got LSAT blues? Kaplan grads pass with ease. Classes start May 12 for 615 LSAT. Call 272·4135. 
Tough exam, that LSAT. Kaplan prep class starts May 12 for the June 16 LSA T. Phone 272·4135. 
Can you afford NOT to take the Kaplan course? Classes slar1 5'12 lor the 615 LSAT. Reserve now. 272·4135. 
SLAM DUNK... SLAM DUNK... SLAM DUNK... THIS AFTERNOON COME OUT AND WATCH THE BEST ON CAMPUS AS THEY IMITATE JORDAN, DR. J, AND DOMINIQUE. TODAY AT 2:00 PM ON THE BOOKSTORE COURTS. BE THERE AND WATCH TONY RICE, JOE FREDRICK, AND A HOST OF OTHERS PERFORMING THEIR BEST DUNKS. 
................................................................ 
TUCK-INS ... TUCK-INS ... TUCK-INS ... HAVENT YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO WISH A SPECIAL GOOD NIGHT TO THAT SCOPE OF YOUR DREAMS? HERE IS YOUR CHANCEIII TONIGHT AT DINNER BUY A TUCK-IN FOR YOUR FRIEND FOR ONLY HALF A DOLLAR. IF YOU CAN'T SPEND THE NIGHT WITH HER, AT LEAST LET HER SLEEP IN PEACE. TUCK-INS ARE DELIVERED THURSDAY NIGHT. 
ATTENTION SKYDIVERS THERE WIU BE A GATHERING THIS SATURDAY AT 10 A.M. WHICH AU DIVERS MUST ATTEND TO GIVE THANKS TO ME AND WISCONSIN'S NORTHWOODS. All SHALL COME IN SPLATTERPAINT TOGAS OR BE SACRIFICED. YOUR PAL, BUDDAH 
Yes, this is it. The LAST DRUID PER· SONAL lor many months to come. So all you Druid haters who like ice and snow and frigidity can rejoice. THANK YOU to all who showed up for the An Tostal opening caremonles, robed or otherwise. 
Spring Is here to stay! 
·the Archdruld 
SEARCHING FOR MR. GOOBER Clue £1 Searching lor GOOBER? We wish you LUCK Because he is Inside a DUCK. Which duck is il? You may ask. That, good searcher, 
Is your TASK. Find Goober? Contact MJ at Howard to claim prize! 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS As of noon today, there are 578 hours left in senior year. But, if you calculate in 6 hours of sleep a night, then you have 434 hours left to enjoy the easiest job you've ever hadlll 
I need a roommate next year at Stanford. Please call John at 283-1814. 
Annie Am I "trying too hard" ? YOU haven't called. Or do we not talk tor 2 months (like before) ? An SYR date 
................................................................ 
DOUBLE TROUBLE ROCK & ROLL lilt CHIPS 
presents 
THE LAW and SMOKE FROM NOWHERE 
Some people are ugly, but their ugly is oniy skin deep. BLUEMLE FOR U.M.O.C. 
He's UGLY to the BONE 
BLUEMLE lor U.M.O.C. 
KATIE W. 
HAPPY 2 MONTH ANNIVERSARY. TRY 
NOT TO KEEP YOUR STREAK ALIVE. 
xoxo 
GUESS WHO 
NEED CASH? We will give you $60 for your four Neil Diamond tickets (in padded seats sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12) and give you lour free bleacher tickets. Call 236-2495 and ask lor Theresa. 
RRAISI· 
NFEST... RAISINFEST... RAISINFEST 
1111 BE A PART OF THE FESTIVAL. 
All WELCOME TO 209 McCANDLESS 
ON FRIDAY FOR FUN AND FROLIC. 
WATCH FOR FURTHER DETAILS. 
JULIE Could it have been .. SATIN? TFT 
YOU KNOW THAT MIKE GUY.. HE'S A PHYSICS MAJOR 
PHIL KELLEHER-I WANT YOUR BODY. 
MOMMY DONAHUE· Welcome to SMCI LOVE, WEEN 
There is no reason The truth is plain to see And so it was He left me The games are over A mind Is set free And if he comes back Who knows where I'll be? 
LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR Somewhere on campus there is a Mr. Goodbar wrapper. Until Friday, there will be clues in The Observer thai will lead to H. 11 you find the wrapper, you win. 
LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR 
A tome Is his home 
and if you seek he, pregunta 
Antoine de Saint Exupary. 
Winner receives a gift certificate for din­
ner for 2 at Tippecanoe. 
LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR He may be LITTLE, and that's no lie. but that's no matter, he's still a PRINCE of a guy. You might ask, well what is next? Think of where you may find him in a Spanish text. 
································································ 
Domer needed lor wedding-no, not as groom. I have to attend a wedding here in South Bend on May 9 and I need an escort. You must be charming witty, and able to BS your way into the hearts of my relatives. Hinterested, call Mary Kim at 284·4023. 
................................................................ 
FRED NELSON I got your first note. If that's just the begin­ning, then should I wait to give you what I've been collecting? I'm sure I'll see you out so you can tell me then. LOVE, THE SALT OF YOUR EARTH 
································································ 
NEAT 
Wednesday, April22, 1987-page 9 
The Observer 

Irish rip Bethel, 10-1, extend winning streak 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
After strangely starting the 
year by playing over .500 on the 
road and going 0-8 at home, 
things returned to normal for 
the Notre Dame baseball team 
last weekend. 
The Irish lost two games at 
the University of Detroit, 3-2 
and 6·2, on Saturday, then 
swept a doubleheader from St. 
Joseph's, 6-3 and 6-5, at Jake 
Kline Field on Easter Sunday. 
Notre Dame won another home 
game yesterday with a 10-1 rout 
of Bethel College. At 12-20, the 
Irish put a three-game winning 
streak on the line in a 
doubleheader today against 
Western Michigan, beginning 
at 1 p.m. at Jake Kline Field. 
"Western Michigan is an ex­
cellent team," said Irish head 
coach Larry Gallo. "It's a big 
rivalry for us. They beat us 
twice by one run last year, and 
we beat them twice the year 
before." 
Notre Dame will try to make it five in a row at home after yesterday's win against the Bethel Pilots. A four-run out­burst in the third inning and steady pitching from Mike Cof­fey and Dirk Madden led the Irish to a 10-1 win. Coffey al­lowed only one earned run and six hits in five innings of work to raise his record to 2-1. Mad­den pitched four innings of hit­less relief to earn his first save. 
The Irish offensive attack also was in full force yesterday. 

Notre Dame amassed sixteen hits, as Dan Peltier, Chris Flynn, Scott Rogers, Tim Hut­son, and Mike Moshier each had two hits. 
The Irish started the winning streak against St. Joseph's on Sunday. Notre Dame came into the doubleheader winless at home, but it came back from a 3-1 deficit to score five runs in the last two innings and record its first home victory, 6-3. 
Shortstop Pat Pesavento was a star for the Irish, with two runs and three hits, including his tOOth career hit in the third inning. Mike Passilla went the distance on the mound to raise his record to 2-3. 
In the second game, Flynn had three RBI's on two hits, in­cluding a game-winning home run in the fifth inning. Flynn has rebounded from an early­season slump to record seven hits in his last 15 at-bats, in­cluding three runs and seven RBI's. 
Irish starter Tom Shaw got his first collegiate win in the second game, and Mike Har­mon came on in relief to earn his first collegiate save in the 6-5 win. 
"If at the beginning of the season," said Gallo, "you told me we'd be 12-20, I'd say you were out of your mind. But any way you slice it, that's what we are. We just have to accept it and get some wins together. We're on a mini-winning streak now." 

-.....~1-··zs··ts of the Castle 
$6student $8.50 complete
style 
MINutES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 212-6312 217-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
................,................. 
C.... ......•1••1••...... NetHe.n
.,_ _..,.._.u tw~~~ot..._ .........., 
Gr-.!uetes· ~ )'OU'III!"""'"""' 1 veriftabie job olter, we went to get you end your oft too Qrlll 111n-wi1h o ~Toyota. Toyota Motor Credrt Cor)>omion ond your por­8UYIT OA LEASE IT. IICipotingToyotadealerorenowmakinghpossibletoget lhe credrt you-with two Clou oi'B7 "quiclt approvol" financing progroma. 
~you quollfy, you can buy or 1eue • .-Toyota end generolly no down poyment •• dopoon Will be roquir-.1.' Who!'I""""·-con......., process your loan wilhin 24 houro. por1X:Ipetjng Toyota -rlor prog.-.m opecifocs. 
To apply you'l need oaJmlf1t driller'llicenoe ond proof of omployment or jobolter."' You may fond rt ~plul to bring 11ong Ill)' bonk or credrt card numbelli. Onoo you~e eppr0118d, you con lllko your choice of the moot e>CCiling kno of ..wCOlli end lruCI<s Toyota has-oltered,lncludong 
~~Carollo FX16 GT·S Ullboclt. 
Socomeon"'-' to~ perticipoting Toyota dealer todoy. Fill ond then buy or laoseyour .-Tayo~~~. Purdlueorloase 
A ,_co-r ond o ..wToyota. Who Could Aok For Anl'lhing Morel 
333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon& Thur 'til 9P.M. 

The final 32 do battle 
Tuoaday'o Results Minahoonies over Heat Miser by 7Stepan 1 Stepan 7 ~ 
Leone's Stallions over East Side Riders by 6 Da' Brothers of Manhood over Verkler's Con­Mr. Coffey over Skoad Men by 6 
Bookstore 9struction by 2 Corpotate Raiders over Jus' Tofu by 5Stepan 2 Tequila White Lightening over All the Presidents Men by 11 4 Fags & A Zahmbie over 5 Guys From Carroll 
Who Beat Dillon by 9 Put It In The Hole, Chief over Freak Daddies 
Malandros over Uncoachables Ill by 4 
SOMFAW over Carte Blanche by 2Stepan 3 
Lyons 11 Last Hurrah by 6 Who's Next... Who Cares over Ed Smerciak's 
4 Slamma Jamma over 7 Guys Who Still Can't Add by 85 Really Cool Guys over Playing On The Veranda by 5 Party at Chips over Air Doggers by 14 
Stepan 4 Lyons 12 New Order over NO Law by 8 Flying Dingleberries over Top Guns by 2 

HAVE YOU CONSI)ERED A CAREER
? ? 
IN ENVIRONMENTAL TOXICOLOGY 
WE WOULD LIKE TO MEET '5ENIJRS AND ;IINIORS IN CHEMISTRY 
AND THE BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES INTERESTED IN TRAINING FOR 
A CAREER DEVOTED TO STUDYING AND REGULATING TOXIC 
CHEMICALS IN THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE WORKPLACE AT A 
LUNCHEON SEMINAR ~HICH WILL BE HOSTED IN THE CHICAGO 
AREA. WE OFFEP THE OPPORTUNITY TO STUDY TOWARD THE 
Ph.D. IN TOXICCLJGY WITH INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED 
SCIENTISTS IN THE JOINT o;RADUATE PROGrAM IN TOXICOLOGY 
DF RUTGERS. THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NF.W JERSEY AND THE 
UNIVERSITY ~F MEDICINE AND DENTISTRY OF NEW 
JERSEYIROBERT WOOD JOHNSON MEDICAL SCHOOL IN 
PISCATAWAY. N:. FELLOWSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE TO ~!JALIFIED 
CANDIDATES. TO MAKE YOUR FREE DINNER RESERVAT:ONS CALL 
MS. :ATHERINE RAYMORE AT 201-932-3728. 
.&-24 8K10 5:00 
80MFAW 4'22 BK8 5:30 1-----~ 


4o22 ST1 UO t------, Put It In 
the Hole, Chief 

4'22 ST5 5:30 1-------' 
Source· Bookstore Basketball XVI Com1t1ee 


Upset 
continuedfrom page 12 
date, was incensed at the referees' inability, in their view, to keep the game under control in the first half. Though SOMFAW led 11-8 at half, the crowd remained belligerent toward the referees, and when Carte Blanche rallied in the second half to take an 18-15 lead behind Tony Rice's nearly flawless outside shooting, Bookstore 10 was on the verge of a riot. 
But that was just the begin­ning. With the score 18-15, Carte Blanche's Mike Haywood was called for a tech­nical foul for intent-to-injure on a breakaway. Haywood ap­parently didn't injure Pat Sul­livan on the play, and he didn't stop him from scoring, either. On a technical foul, the basket counts on the foul, the fouled 
T.ctull• Whtte Ughtnlne 
.-------t ~ ~~·~...~~~.. 
Non-Delry er.n.r. 
-
~ BK1::;,~ Ned... Who c.r-.? 
Cofpo-­
4o22 BK10 8:18 

MIMhoonllll '--------t .,.. ST1 ~~8a­
of -­Ob&eNer GraphiC Laura Stanton and Pe1e Geyen 
player gets a free throw (which 
Sullivan proceeded to make) 
and the fouled team regains 
possession of the ball. SOM­
F A W then scored on the en­
suing possession to tie the score 
at 18 and complete the three­
point swing. 
Carte Blanche managed to reach game-point at 20-19, but Pat Marget calmly canned a IS­footer to knot the score again. Three baskets and several con­troversial calls later, Joe Auer buried a jumper to finish the scoring. 
The Corporate Raiders eliminated Jus' Tofu, 21-16, knocking off one of last year's final sixteen entries. The Raiders shot a sterling 21-of-34 from the field and neutralized Tofu's inside game. After Matt "Bingo" Hanley pulled Tofu to within one at 17-16, the Raiders took control and did not miss a shot the rest of the way. 
Also, Da' Brothers of Man­hood, who fought off the Killer Bees, 28-26, on Wednesday af­ternoon, survived another scare in the form of Verkler's Construction yesterday. Da' Brothers escaped, 21-19, but were surprised by Verkler's who, behind Jim Dolan's 11-of­19 shooting, nine rebounds, and 11 blocked shots, finally seemed to reach their peak in stretching the highly favored Brothers to the limit. 
In other action, Minahoonies chilled Heat Miser, 21-14, as Steve Antinelli poured in seven points; Put It In the Hole, Chief scored a surprisingly easy 21-12 triumph over the Ball-Headed Freakdaddies; Terry Andrysiak shot 8-of-9 as 5 Really Cool Guys blasted Playing on the Veranda, 21-16; Tequila White Lightning con­tinued to roll, impeaching All the President's Men, 21-10; Leone's Stallions cruised past the East Side Runners, 21-15; and Party at Chips When We Repeat looked impressive in shooting down Air Doggers, 21­7. 
ASK ABOUT REBUD 
3 credits -2 weeks 
printmaking -photo ceramics -palntlnt'drawlng field biology 
!Contact: Bill Sandusk~ Saint Mary's Art Dept 284-4655 
The Observer Wednesday, April 22, 1987 -page 10 

Andrysiak, c>ffense pick up the pace in spring football 
By MARTY STRASEN "Terry's making really good Assistant Sports Editor progress," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "I like the 
Junior quarterback Terry things he's doing with the team. Andrysiak decided to put an He's the No. 1 quarterback at end to the trend of defense­this point and he'll go into the dominated spring football fall No. 1. scrimmages last Thursday. "We weren't really looking at 
Spring Football '87 

In Notre Dame's third scrim­anyone in particular for the No. mage of the spring season, 1 spot going into spring drills, Andrysiak led the No. 1 offen­hut we seem to have found him. sive unit to three touchdown Sometimes you find a wife drives, finishing each with a when you're not looking for one touchdown pass. Andrysiak put too. It's just something that has up his best numbers by far, happened, and Terry has cer­completing 12-of-17 passes for tainly earned it." 189 yards. The junior aired up a 37-yard 



ND soccer t<)ps Lewis 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish soccer squad fi­nally returned to the great out­doors Tuesday afternoon for a scrimmage with Lewis at Stepan North field. 
Notre Dame played well overall in the 3-1 victory over the Chicago-based college, but the players admitted is was dif­ferent playing outdoors after spending six months on astroturf and playing in two in­door tournaments. 
"I just have no feel for it," said Irish stopper Johnny Guig­non in the first half. "We've been indoors for so long." 
The Irish started the scoring in the first half off a restart. Forward Randy Morris chipped the ball from the left side to midfielder Kevin Kade, who trapped the ball in front of the Lewis goalie and passed it to wingback Sean Fieber, who knocked it home. 
Irish forward Tiger McCourt gave Notre Dame a 2-0 lead when he scored off a feed from midfielder Rolfe Berhje. 
Lewis tallied in the second half on a direct kick just out­side the goal penalty area. But the Irish put it away when Berhje centered from the right corner to Guignon, who fed Morris. Morris dribbled in and scored from 10 yards out. 
Hulk will visitACC 
Special to The Observer 
World Wrestling Federation heavyweight champion Hulk Hogan and a "mystery partner" will face Andre the r Giant and Bobby 'The Brain' I Heenan in a tag-team match at ~ the Notre Dame ACC next 
I 
Tuesday night, the WWF an­
I 
nounced yesterday. 
I 
Hogan and Andre fought an epic battle last March 28 in which Hogan retained his belt. 
The bout was added to a card which features a tag-team championship match between the Hart Foundation and the British Bulldogs. Ricky 'The Dragon' Steamboat will defend 
his newly won Intercontinental Championship against Randy 'Macho Man' Savage. 
Tickets to the event, which NBC will later televise, are on sale at the ACC for $12 and $9. 
The squad will next play in the alumni game Saturday. 
pass which found Tony Eason in the corner of the end zone on his first drive of the day, ending an impressive 70-yard march. Two plays earlier, Andrysiak had hit Reggie Ward cutting across the middle for a 25-yard hook-up on a second-and-18 play. 
The No. 2 quarterback slot, however, is still up in the air at best. Pete Graham and Steve Belles have been sharing time calling the signals with the second unit, as neither appears to have won the position out­right. 
Graham was 5-of-9 for 36 yards in the third scrimmage, while Belles finished 1-of-4 with 38 yards. 
"We've been a little inconsis­tent behind Terry, but I think we should be able to move the football fairly well," Holtz said. "I know we're going to make some very good plays, and now we've got to eliminate some of the bad ones." 
Andrysiak's other two touch­down passes included a 38-yard dump to Alonzo Jefferson down the sideline and a four-yard connection with tight end Tom Byrne. 
Another plus for Holtz' offen­sive unit was the return of star flanker Tim Brown. Brown missed the first two scrim­mages because he was at track meets, but returned last Thursday in familiar form, picking up 81 yards on the ground. Included in those was a 66-yard touchdown on a reverse pitch. 
"A lot of things happen when he's out there," Holtz said. "He's a great talent and he opens up a lot of things for other people with the things he does. 
"I thought Alonzo Jefferson (42 yards rushing, 38 yards re­ceiving, three touchdowns) played the best I've seen him play since I've been here." 
Jefferson also scored on 
pitches from nine and six yards 
out. Aaron Robb sprinted out­
side on a third down from the one-yard line to complete a 65­yard drive skippered by Belles, and freshman Anthony Johnson rounded out the scoring with a three-yard run on the last drive of the day. 
Defensively, freshman linebacker Mike Stonebreaker led the team with 13 tackles and also recovered a fumble. Greg Hudson and Darrell "Flash" Gordon also recovered fumbles for the defense. 
"Fundamentally, I look at how well we're executing," Holtz said. "Offensively, we have to eliminate the turn­overs, but I thought we moved the ball well. Defensively, we might have digressed slightly. You never like to see big plays on defense. 
"Considering the numbers, I think we've made a lot of prog­ress this spring. We've still got some problems, but overall I'm pleased. We've kept people healthy and that comes with a good attitude and good fun­damentals.'' 

In the bicentennial year of the United States Constitution, Bill Moyers takes the pulse of the nation's celebration in the weekly series, MOYERS: IN SEARCH OF THE CONSTITUTION. 
Ten one-hour programs present one of America's most respected journalists with Supreme Court Justices, historians, educators, scholars, and citizens who have taken petitions of their constitutional rights all the way to the high­est court in the land. 
"The series is about ideas;' Moyers says. 
General Motors is presenting this series ofprograms to broaden an appreciation ofour Constitution in the belief that the strength ofAmerica lies in under­standing ourfreedoms and responsibilities as citizens. 
Presented on PBS by WNET-New York and WTVS-Detroit. Check local listings for time and channel. 

~------~~~~~~~-~---~--~i ~ I 
M I
1 Yes! $40.00 a year for over 135 1 I issues. Please deliver I
! The Observer right to my door. I I I
n Name I 
I I
Address 
~ I
I City I 
I State & Zip I
I I
Please remit payment with this subscription card. 



L----------------------1 
The Observer••• it brings 
back the memories. 
Remember the football games, the pep rallies and the parties? H.ow about your classes and the friends you made? 
Whether it's sports news, or whatever else you need to keep in touch with what's going on at Notre Dame, you should take a look at what's going on in The Observer. 
Each day, The Observer contains in-depth interviews, concise quotes, and guest columns from Notre Dame's top administrators, coaches, and student leaders. 
Start today, by mailing this subscription card. 
Send to: 
And when famous political figures, celebrities and clergy visit Notre Dame, The Obser· ver's staff of over 200 stu· dents covers the campus to bring you the news. 
We'll deliver The Observer di·: rectly to your home for $40.00 a year. 
-..........., 
.._____ 


=Ihe_Obseaer= keeps you in 
touch ••• with your
P.O. Box Q alma mater. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(see reverse side for details) 

Wednesday, April 22, 1987-page 11



Toda 

DOWN 42 Jackson and 48 Indian city 52 Depose 1 Irritates others 49 Br. hero 55 Tom Joad 2 Wall of stones 45 Bypasses 50 Somewhat 57 Robust 3 Melodious 47 Aboveboard verdant 58 Mountain 

sAs presents: Paper Chase Tonight 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 Thursday 9:15, 11:30 Engineering Auditorium $1.00 Absolutely no food or drink allowed  SAB is now accepting applications for the position of: 1988 Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman Applications are available in the secretary's of flee on the 2nd floor of LaFortune and must returned by Tuesday, April 28.  

loom County 
$!vt/ WHe-K£ 1/1?€ }WWf5 1 OIIT51Pe OF 171l611 .? WH/fT t_ 
YQf/'1{6 lll/f1()5TfJI(OI<E r 
I 
Beer Nuts 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
~{( HIIVffoh 1lJ {1()(!8!£ llf'fN7Ht YOII MrJmt. /?fXJMS, eH .' WOVNP 
Me, 5/f(. 
\ 
Mark Williams 


Campus 
11:30 a.m.-1 :OOp.m.: Economics Depar­tment Labor Workshop, Thomas Burke, ND graduate student in economics, Thesis Proposal, 131 Decio 
12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
4: 15 p.m. : Exxon Distinguished Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, and Program in Critical and Continental Thought Lecture, Theme: Hermeneutics and its Horizons, "Hermeneutics, Culture, 
and  Politics,"  by  Professor  Frederic  
Jameson, Duke University, 24  (Satellite  
II), O'Shaughnessy Hall  

4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, with Professor D. Smith, University of Califor­nia, Riverside, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
4:30 p.m.: College of Science Lecture Series, "Rigidity Theorems in Several Complex Variables," by Professor Y. Siu, Harvard University, second floor of the Comp-Math Building 
4:30p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, "The Total Synthesis of Polyproportionate Derived Natural Products," by Professor David Evans, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, sends teenagers like you to live abroad with host families. Go to new schools. Make new friends. 
If you're between 15 and 19 and want to help bring our world together, send for information. 
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE Pueblo, Colorado 81009 

~ The International 'l:buth Exchange. 

8:00 p.m.: Theology Department Bert and Etta Liss Lecture, "The Place of Judaic Studies in a Catholic University," by Rabbi Michael Signer, Hebrew Union College, Los Angeles, Room 210-214 Center for Continuing Education 
8:00p.m.: ND Chorale Spring Concert, Sacred Heart Church 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Breaded Pork Chop Poached Sole wNeg Lasagna Sloppy Joes 
Saint Mary's 

Roast Pork with Dressing Turkey Broccoli Divan with Copen­hagen Sauce Grecian Pocket Pita Deli Bar 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Stuff 5Seeata 
distance 
9 Rascal 14 Employ 15 602 16 Biologist's 
concern 17 Samoan port 18 Scott 19 Auction word 20 House area 22 Diminutive 
suffix 23 Mitigates 24 Self-righteous 
ones 26 Rhine 
tributary 28 Germ cell 29 Cancun coin 30 Holy Roman 
emperor 31 Scot. river 33 Crested birds 35 Pressure 39 Bright 
Ali Rights Reserved

40 Dean 
42 Procure 43 Sign of 4 More petty 
neglect 5 Whirlpool 44 Russ. city 6 Ready to fight 46 Lendl 7 Novelist Louys 
specialty 8 A language 51 Thus far 9 Venerable 52 Rung ones 53 Paul or Lloyd 10 Thicken 54 Cliff edge 11 Trouble-maker 56 Beg 12 Shark at times 58 As one 13 Wooden pin 59 Norse work 21 Nagana 60 Medicinal carrier 
amount 25 Greylag 61 Donizetti 27 Optimistic 
heroine 30 WWII gp. 62 Eagerness 32 Scarf 63 Golf club 34 Algonquian 64 Fonda or 35 Nimble 


Duchin 36 Loyal 65 Being 37 Curb 66 Say nay 38 Newt 
41 Circus item 


-----~-------·-----------------------­
~~----­

Wednesday, April 22, 1987-page 12


SRorts 
DiStanislao resigns as basketball blead coach 
By MARTY STRASEN "It has no bearing on how I Assistant Sports Editor feel about Notre Dame. I love this place and I always have. I 
Exactly seven years after feel very strongly about the job she was named head coach of we've done, I feel we're h1 a the Notre Dame women's bas­good position to continue along ketball team, Mary DiStanis­a successful path and it's a lao announced Tuesday that cinch to say I'm going to miss she is stepping down from that this place." position and plans to enroll in The graduate of Douglass graduate school at Northwes­College in New Brunswick, tern University this fall. N.J., won two Big Ten Confer­
DiStanislao will pursue a ence titles while at the masters degree in business ad­Northwestern helm, and has ministration at Northwestern, captured a pair of North Star where she coached for five Conference championships at 
}:
years prior to her seven-year Notre Dame. She was honored The Sandler
stint with the Irish. The 36-as the NSC's Coach of the Year 
year-old guided Notre Dame to in both of those campaigns Notre Dame women's basketball coach Mary a 115-79 record during her stay, (1984-85 and 1985-86). DiStanislao resigned yesterday after seven and holds a 204-109 mark over her 12-year career. Her 1985-86 squad, led by all­in really good shape." do. I'm very, very excited showed a lot of heart, and those 
She took over the Irish pro­time Irish leading scorer Trena DiStanislao has her sights set about that." last few weeks of the season gram in the 1980-81 season, the Keys, posted a 23-8 record and on a possible athletic director DiStanislao, somewhat showed what college athletics year the squad jumped from finished third at the Women's job in the future. surprisingly, pointed to this are all about -character. AlAW Division III to the NCAA National Invitation Tourna­"I like being the boss," she past season as one of her best "I can't really point to one Division I level. ment. That was the first Divi­said. "Coaching has been memories at Notre Dame. moment in my career, but I can 
"The opportunity to go to sion I post-season appearance great, but Northwestern has "Although the overall record say that I'm really proud of the Northwestern was more or less by Notre Dame. one of the best management this year 02-15) was disap­way things turned out." an offer I couldn't refuse," said "I think we've come very schools around. Right now all pointing and we had some dis­And for the hand "Mary D" DiStanislao at a press confer­far," DiStanislao said. "Going I really know is athletics, so I appointing losses," she said, "I had in helping things turn out ence yesterday afternoon. "It from a program with no schol­have my hopes set on being a think our finest moments came the way they did -in this past was a decision I felt I had to arships, we have risen to the great athletic director. at the end of the year when we year and in the six before -DiS­make for my own career and point where we can truly say "But this will give me an op­were winning games we tanislao is one lady with the my own future. we belong here. We've gotten portunity to see what else I can weren't supposed to win. We right to be proud . 
..-.n• s 
<~--=~ 



Bookstore Basketball in final week 
By PETE SKIKO upset-minded squads over last controversial contests, as fans Sports Writer year's seeded teams, continued partial to their team badgered domination by the top the officials after nearly every 
As the field of teams remain­favorites, and heated battles close call. ing in Bookstore Basketball waged between evenly­This was certainly the case XVI shrunk yesterday to the matched teams. All of these in yesterday's drama between sixteen elite of the tournament, combined to thrill hundreds of highly touted Carte Blanche 
and the heretofore relatively unknown SOMFAW. SOMFAWBookstore 
prevailed 23-21, but not without six second-half lead changes,Basketball some incredibly clutch pres­sure shooting by both clubs,
XVI 
and some tight calls late in the 
game that nearly led to brawls the players who had earlier onlookers at the three tourna­both on the court and in the breezed to wins in their first ment sites last Wednesday and stands. few rounds were forced to step yesterday. The crowd, primarily back­
The ObservellSusan Coene up the pace and actually earn The addition of referees to ing SOMFAW and one of the Andy Heck of 5 Really Cool Guys puts up this shot in his team's the right to continue on. games of the Final 64 and largest of the tournament to 21-16 victory over Playing on the Veranda yesterday. Pete Skiko The result was a fifth round beyond have led to somewhat 
see UPSET, page 9
highlights yesterday's action at right. complete with surprises by cleaner yet somewhat more 
Brewers' Jttot start can be traced to quality farm system 
This can't be, it just can't be. But that team fizzled quickly. Injuries started the Plesac has been called a young Dave Righetti by I read the papers, listen to broadcasts, and still decline and age gave it an extra shove. The more than a few observers. 
mainstays began falling, and the Brewers record These guys have impressive minor league statis­
this whole thing baffles me. 

fell accordingly. tics, but this is the majors we're talking about. They The Milwaukee Brewers ar1~ breaking records. 
Yes, those Milwaukee Brewers. The ones who 
have no business winning 13 games in a row. Atlanta won 13 to start the season, but they were picked aseveryone placed in sixth of SE!Venth places in the a definite contender.
preseason. The same team that has been everyone's Rick favorite doormat in the American League East has This was not the case with the Brewers. While 
assumed center stage. Rietbrock finishing only six games under .500, they were still The last shall be first. At least for a little while. considered too young, and too inexperienced to con­
Irish Items 
The incredible 13-0 start ha~• been one long ride tend. of thrills for the Brew Crew. They came back from That still may be true, but County Stadium was a six-run deficit and Juan Nieves threw the team's But that's where team management came in. Bud mayhem last Friday, as more and more fans be­first-ever no-hitter. Those things happen frequently Selig, the team's owner, and Harry Dalton, the Gen­came believers. The game had to be delayed a half­in baseball, but Sunday things got a bit ridiculous. eral Manager, did not panic. They began to rebuild hour because of the rush of traffic to the game. 
Down 4-1 in the ninth inning, Hob Deer hit a three­the team, not with free agents and frequent trades, The highlight film from the team's road trip even run homer and Dale Sveum hit a two-run shot to but through the farm system. The Brewers have received a standing ovation. beat Texas, 6-4. So much for reality. captured top farm system honors the past two This foolishness ended last night, but it was fun 
The city of Milwaukee has ur.derstandably gotten seasons, and the harvest has now reached a point while it lasted. The unknown upstarts have served a little excited over the streak. The beer capital close enough to fruition to notice at the major league notice that they are not to be taken for granted any who fell in love with its Milwaukee Braves was level. longer. But those fans in New York who feel so heartbroken over the team's move to Atlanta in Names such as Dale Sveum, Chuck Crim, Chris threatened by the Brewers fast start really need 1966, and even a bit bitter. Bosio, Mike Birkbeck and Mark Ciardi have not fret. The Brewers really will lose their share 
Then, in 1970, Milwaukee was awarded the floun­replaced Fingers, Simmons, Caldwell and Thomas. of games this year. dering Seattle Pilots franchise. Slowly, the team How many of those names would have found their But they will hang around quite a while this year, became a solid one, and Bambi's Bombers (later way into normal conversations three weeks ago? A and their steady climb has gotten them some at­named Harvey's Wallbangersl stormed to the 1982 few of the new kids have gotten some attention. tention. Through all the hoopla, some club owners World Series. Baseball was ba(:k in Milwaukee, and B. J. Surhof has received some support for Rookie should take note, because the Brew Crew has given back in style. of the Year honors this season, and reliever Dan a clinic how to build a baseball team. 


years at the helm for the Irish. Marty Strasen has details of the resignation at left. 




