Heat wave? Sunny and
IACCENT: 'Brar' wisdom warmer today, with a high in the mid 60s. Partly cloudy tonight, low In the low 40s. Partly sunny tomorrow, high In
IVIEWPOINT: Lack of respect for Pope 
the mid 60s. 



the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Economist Galbraith evaluates capitalism 
By ELLYN MASTAKO cially immigrants, are ex­economics at Harvard Univer­
Senior Staff Reporter ploited. sity. Galbraith has played a "The old are discarded when role in the shaping of U.S. eco­
John Kenneth Galbraith, nomic policies. As a deputy ad­famed economist, focused on ministrator of the Office of the history and evolution of eco­Price Administration in the nomic policies and their influ­early 1940s, he was primarily ence on capitalism in his lec­responsible for the organiza­ture Tuesday in Washington tion of the war-time system of Hall. price controls. 
"While capitalism brought He was awarded the Medal an enormous increase in the of Freedom by President productivity of men and wo­Harry Truman. He was also men, it also brought insuf­chairman of the Democratic ferable hardships and Advisory Council from 1956 to problems," he said. 1960. An early supporter of John 
Among those problems are F. Kennedy, he served on Ken­an inordinate concentration of nedy's 1960 convention staff power among a few, the and was appointed by Kennedy owners. This in turn creates a to serve as U.S. ambassador to much resented lack of power India. among the employees, he said, 
see LECTURE, page 5
adding that minorites, espe-

Students may finance damages 
By BRADLEY GALKO president for residence life, on visiting dorm SYRs to get a bet­News Staff Nov. 5. Daley said he expects ter idea of exactly how they the $1,400 will be discussed at operate. The council decided to 
The Hall Presidents' Council that time. invite a few members of the said Tuesday night it expects HPC members expressed task force to a meeting in the that the $1,400 damage that was concern about setting a prece­near future to give them the op­incurred at the dining hall food dent by which the administra­portunity to talk about the task fight will be assessed to the stu­tion can fine entire groups of force and ask questions of the dent body. students for the actions of a students. 
No method has been estab­few. Liz Durkin spoke on behalf of lished for how the damages will The HPC listed other matters the Overseas Developmentbe paid by the students or if which will be discussed at the Network on the Hunger Clean­
... __. they will be paid, according to meeting with Goldrick. They Up scheduled to begin on AprilHPC Co-chairman Bob Daley . included the future of SYR 16 of next year.
-He said the money "covers dances and formals, the roles She explained that each par­the cost of broken dishes, food and powers of dorm rectors and ticipant in the Clean-Up will wasted ... and paying the residence assistants, the man­recruit sponsors and then The Observer I Suzanne Poch (University Food Services) agement of money in dorms, donate about three hours of employees who stayed to clean and Goldrick's jurisdiction time on a spring Saturday to
Naval manuvers 

up." over off-campus activities. clean up local streets, alleys, Part of the Notre Dame fleet cruises the waters of St. Joseph's Lake. The HPC said it has a One hall president brought public facilities, and commu-Navy ROTC members are training for their sailing certification. meeting scheduled with Dr. up the fact that members of the 
see HPC, page 3

John Goldrick, associate vice Alcohol Task Force have been 

Reagan sounds defiant on next CROP walk 'a success' 
By KARIN YOUNG not only to raise money for News.Staff the poor, but also to help in­


nominee to Supreme Court 
crease student awareness of The fifth annual CROP the hungry and uneducated, 

Associated Press However, after the speech a Reagan said, to applause from walk last Sunday was "quite especially in South Bend, ac­woman called out, "We want the crowd. 
a success," said Renee Gau, cording to Gau. She ex­WHIPPANY, N.J. -A defiant Bork," and Reagan responded 

· service concerns commis­plained, "Another goal of 

President Reagan declared to her words. Meanwhile, Senate D{"mo­Tuesday that if Supreme Court cratic Leader Robert Byrd of 
nominee Robert Bork is "You want Bork, too?" West Virginia was cautioning defeated in the Senate, as ex­Reagan asked. "So do I." pected, he'll try to find a new He told the audience that against just such a move. nominee "that they'll object to Bork would stay in the fight In remarks on the Senate 
just as much." even though "We know the odds floor, Byrd scolded the Reagan 
Earlier in the day, in a are against him. What's at administration for not listening speech in Somerset, Reagan issue here is not one man and to Democratic advice that Bork accused Bork opponents of what happened to him. What's would be controversial, saying "distortions and innuendoes" at issue is that we make sure Reagan "could have saved but dropped harsher wording that the process of appointing Judge Bork ... a traumatic ex­that had been included in an and confirming judges never perience." earlier version of the speech. again is turned into such a po­
And he did not even mention litical joke." "It's important that the ad­Bork in the formal remarks he "And if I have to appoint an­ministration listen to the coun­delivered in Whippany to the other one, I'll try to find one sel of some of the people in this New Jersey Republican State that they'll object to just as body before it sends up another 
Central Committee. much as they did" to Bork, nominee," Byrd said. 
dioner for student govern­our's was to show, through ment. support in the CROP walk, 
Nearly 135 participants that Notre Dame is a part of represented Notre Dame on the South Bend Community, the walk, a Christian Rural not a separate entity." Overseas Project, which Notre Dame students and raised about $22,000 this faculty as well as South year, said Gau. Bend and area residents 
South Bend food banks will participated in the event, receive 30 percent of the beginning and ending their total raised. The remainder ten kilometer walk at St. will be distributed by the Joseph's High School. Church World Service to Over 1200 people partici­feed and educate the poor in pated this year, an increase the U.S. and other countries, of about 400 over last year's said Gau. walk. The Notre Dame 
The purpose of Notre Glee Club performed before Dame's participation was the walk began. 

----~­
page 2 



In Brief , 
Chopsticks are now being exported to Japan. A Minnesota factory on Tuesday shipped its first truckloads of chopsticks to Japan. The plant will eventually produce 7 million pairs of chopsticks daily for sale in the Far East primarily to Japanese restaurants. High-speed wood dry~rs and a computerized cutting system designed by a Damsh manufacturer enable the plant to make chopsticks up to seven times faster than traditional Japanese plants. The production process ends with a computerized quality­control check that sifts out rejects with the use of fiber optics said. The Japanese discard 130 million pairs of dis­posable chopsticks daily. -Associated Press 
A 38-year old ban on travel to Communist China was relaxed by Taiwan's ruling Nationalist Party to allow families separated since the Chinese civil war to reunite. The new policy will allow Taiwan's citizens, with the ex­ception of military personnel and civil servants, to visit people related to them "by blood or marriage" on the Chinese mainland. Taiwan, however, will not change its anti-communist policies and its determination to recover the mainland, the party said. -Associated Press 
Of ·Interest 
Foreign study programs will bethetopicoftonight's WVFI 6400 Campus Perspectives talkshow from 10 p.m. ­11 p.m. with: Mary Berger--Angers, Susan Hrach --In­nsbruck, Frank James--Tokyo and China, Karan Julka -­Mexico City, David Lee--London, and Todd Tihon --Tokyo. Call in at 239-6400 to host Lynsey Strand. -The Observer 
Le Cercle Francais will not be meeting this week. The meeting is postponed until after break. The club's next event is a French mass on Sunday, November 1. ­
The Observer 
Over fifty law school representatives will be on campus today from 12 noon -4 p.m. in Stepan Center for the Law School Caravan. Any student considering law school should stop by and meet informally with the rep­resentatives to discuss various aspects of their programs. The event is sponsored by the Pre-Law Society in conjunc­tion with Career and Placement Services. -The Observer 
Women United for Justice and Peace will have a discussion today at the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. -The Observer 
U2 ticket lottery sign-ups for the Sophomore Class will be held today in the Sophomore Class Office, 2nd floor of LaFortune from 2 p.m.-4 p.m. You must be a sophomore and can only sign-up for yourself with an J.D. The concert is Sunday, November 1 at the Indianapolis Hoosierdome with special guest Los Lobos. -The Observer 
Birth of the Avant-Garde will be the subject of a lecture today at the Snite Museum of Art in the Annenberg Auditorium at 7:30pm. The speaker is Bille Wickre, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. It is sponsored by the Friends of the Snite. Admission is free to students; Friends of the Snite, $1; others, $2. -The Observer 
Buses to Michiana Regional Airport will pick up at the Main Circle this Friday, 1-4 p.m. on the hour. Cost per student is $2. Pay the Student Government Rep at the Main Circle before boarding the bus. -The Observer 
Registratio~ for Senior Reflection groups is contmuing. Interested seniors can sign up at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The Observer Wednesday, October 14, 1987 


Mysterious Tarot predicts the future 


About all most people know of Tarot cards is that James Bond seduced Solitare with a rigged deck in "Live and Let Die." But there's far more to them than seduction. 
Predecessors to modern-day playing cards, Tarot decks have been used since the heyday of Ancient Egypt to predict love, fortune, and fame. They don't predict death, contrary to popular opinion. 
There are 78 cards in the deck. 22 of these are Major Trumps, depicting things like the Sun, the Moon, the Chariot, and the High Priestess. The remaining cards are split into four suits: Cups, Wands, Swords and Pentacles. Except for an extra Page, they are similar to the ace through king deck we are used to. 
And now to predict the future. Since there are several thousand of you out there, and no one really cares about my own future except me, I will predict the University's future. And so I shuffle the cards three times, cut the deck into three piles with my left hand in the Gypsy tradition, and begin ... 
The Hierophant (as the Significator): The Significator is a card chosen by the reader to represent the seeker. In this case, I chose the Hierophant, a religious authority figure, to rep­resent Notre Dame, which defines itself as a Catholic university and thus a teaching author­ity. 
Three of Swords, reversed (general atmo­sphere): A card in the reversed position gen­erally means an opposite meaning as the same card upright. The Three of Swords, a card of confusion or loss, is lessened in meaning when reversed. Perhaps this refers to the recent changeover of University presidents, lessened in impact by the competence of the new man in the job. 
Two of Wands (tools available): Creative ability, plans coming to fruition, courage. In this reading, the base upon which Notre Dame was built. 
Nine of Swords (foundations): Desolation, suspicion, doubt. The recent tragic deaths of members of the Notre Dame community come to mind. 
The Star, reversed (departing influences): Stubbornness, lack of perception. I would say the alcohol policy, but please remember I am not a professional reader. 
Four of Cups (possible future): Contempla­tion of self, reevaluation. Since this is positioned next to the reversed Star, perhaps the Univer­sity may reconsider its stand on a topic which previously had been set in stone. 
Queen of Wands, reversed (entering in­fluences): Virtuousness to a fault, domineering. This may be a specific woman or a general trend. 
~·~~~~~~,_..-1. 
Mark Me Laughlin 
Projects Manager 
King ofWands (fears): A good leader, strong in body and mind, but sometimes hasty. Per­haps University leaders are afraid of some fu­ture action they feel they might later regret. 
Six ofCups, reversed (influence of family and friends): Clinging to outworn manners and morals. Old friendships should be discarded. This could be interpreted as the view of the student body. Note that this is merely stating people's views, not making any claims as to whether they are correct views. 
Eight ofWands (hopes): Along journey nears completion, goals will be attained. The Univer­sity hopes to realize all of its potential as a center of Catholic learning. 
The Sun, reversed (the final outcome): First, the good news. The Sun is one of the best cards in the Tarot deck. It signifies achievement in the arts and sciences, success, and all-around happiness. The reversed position, however, nul­lifies all this, making it a card of frustrated potential. Its position near the Four of Cups might suggest that introspection and change might help to realize this potential. 
You can take Tarot as seriously as you want to, I guess. Most people laugh and scoff, but they all want their future read so sometimes I wonder. It does help one sort out one's mind, however. And that can only help the future. 




Tile at.n>er (USPS '99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. Tile ObMner is published by the students of the University of Notre DaJDe and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year($~ per semester) by writina Tile at.n>er, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile at.ln• il a member of Tile Mlodllled Praa. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Design Editor .. . ........... Lisa Tugman Design A83istant . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . Jodi Topel Typesetters............ . Becky Gunderman ........................................ Chris Reardon News Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning Copy Editor ....................... Tim O'Keefe Sports Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi 
Accent Copy Editor ............ Mike Restle Accent Layout ................. Rachel O'Hara Sports Wednesday Editors. Brian O'Gara ............................................. Pete Gegen Sports Wednesday Design .. Joe Zadrozny Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cathy Haynes ND Day Editor ................... Katie Gugle SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Photographer................... Suzanne Poch 

I Looking lor 10 I
1 1
Tickets to NO I USC Game i contact I ! Mike Kelly (312)565-5959 iI From 9-5, M-F ! 

·~ 
~·

L .....~,._...._.,,_~~·~~l 

WEDNESDAY SPECIAL 
VODKA & GRAPEFRUIT 90 CENTS ._,. .... 
..r.;;;:::==NQRTHWESTERN UNIVER DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CENTER FOR NURSING CAN KIU A FRIENDSHIR 
OPEN HOUSE 
Thanks to you•.. 
Saturday, October 24, 1987
it works ... 
10:00 AM to 2:00 PM 
for 
American Bar Center 750 N. Lake Shore Drive
AU. 
Suite 601 Chicago, Illinois
OFUS 
• 
"Nursing As A Career" Bachelor ofScience in Nursing Master of Science 
Meet Faculty, staff, and students Learn about full and pan-time programs
Unltadwau 
Wednesday, October 14, 1987 The Observer page 3 


Counseling Center strives to project better image 

By NATASHA WILSON administration. demands typically our sponsible for relaying to UCC News Staff Onkka said he often hears response is to respond to the officials the students' expecta­students referring to UCC as student's needs first," Onkka tions and needs, said Jane Weir, In response to some negative "the place you are sent when said. the council head and psycho­feedback from the student you get caught drinking alco­The UCC also faces the chal­logical services commissioner. body, the University Counsel­hol." lenge of effectively advertising The council's suggestion last ing Center plans to improve its Although the center employs its services around campus, he year for a UCC workshop lec­image this year among the stu­two people to handle alcohol said. ture program has resulted in dents, said Dr. Timothy Onkka, referals, the treatment of alco­So far this semester, the cen­"a coordinated outreach pro­the center's outreach coordin­hol abuse is only one facet of ter has served about 250 stu­gram with themes," Onkka ator. the program, he said. dents on an individual basis, said. The workshops are "more 
"We are trying to be more "We have worked hard to Bartlett said. in-depth" and will include responsive to how others per­clarify this," Bartlett said. During 1985, he said, 450 stu­more topics like eating disor­ceive us," Onkka said. "People have to have a moti­dents received treatment and ders, he said. 
Last spring when the center vation to come on their own or last year the number increased Attendance at this year's changed its name from the Psy­else the center can not success­to 670, which created, for the workshops is double that of pre­chological Services Center to fully treat them." first time in the center's his­vious years, he added. its present name, the center Concerns about confiden­tory, a need for waiting lists. At its second meeting of this immediately became more at­tiality discourages many stu­Bartlett said he considers the year the council decided to al­tractive to students, he said. dents from seeking UCC's as­increase in attendance an indi­low each residence hall to send 
"Psych Services" implied sistance, Onkka said. cation of an improving image a representative to its monthly treatment exclusively for the "Confidentiality is something for UCC. He predicts that "by meetings. The next meeting on mental ill, said Dr. Willis we take seriously," he con­word of mouth" the center will Nov. 9 is also open to anyone Bartlett, UCC coordinator of tended. "We feel students have continue to gain a more posi­who would like to voice an training and associate profes­the right to privacy." tive reputation. opinion, Weir said. sor of psychology. "We don't The administration and other Onkka, however, noted "the Next spring the council plans focus just on the extreme university agencies frequently people who benefit from our to present a forum for current cases," he noted. "We provide request that the center release services are the ones least campus issues including the al­(services) from just simple information on certain stu­likely to brag about it." cohol policy and campus dis­support all the way to psychia­dents, Onkka said. He added, The center has sought the as­crimination, Onkka said. "Stu­tric treatment with medica­however, that UCC's policy is sistance of its Student Advisory dent involvement is what we tion." to refuse these requests be­Council to develop image­are really after," he said. "The 
Another reputation the cen­cause the records are consid­boosting programs. most we can do is provide an ter intends to overcome is that ered private. The Advisory Council, which opportunity for them." of a disciplinary branch of the "When there are conflicting was created last spring, is re-The council also intends to 

0 0 p 
c 

E T N 0 H B 
0 E u R 
s SUDDENL'/, TIME Sltd> STILL ,BII1.DS FEll Slll:.NT. 
C()-EDS QUI~D IN I«TICI~TION.9-IEL.Inl--~E ZEI-JIT~ Cl:MP'JTER NERD··HAD5TI:ff'EO Cff lliE BUS... 


30TH

E 
Here's Sheldon the Computer Nerd ... career. And they get you there at great stu­the hottest new hunk on your campus! dent prices! Why is everyone crazy about this new wave Now, discover Sheldon's secret to Compu­nebbish? Simple! He's Sheldon-the Computer ter Nerd success with this special offer from Nerd who knows all about Zenith Data your Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. Systems. That makes him one hip dude! Sheldon gives it a big thumbs up! 
'Cause Zenith Data Systems Personal Com­Here's the Sheldon Special! puters take you all the way from college to 
Register to Win A FREE 
EaZyPC! 
Visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact today: 
OPENHOUSE

data October 30th 
10:00 a.m. -7:00p.m.
systems Computing Center Demonstration 
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON" Contact: Lisa Burg 239-5153 Ask about how you can qualify for easy monthly payments with aZenith Data Systems Credit Card! 
sponsor a lecture series by psy­chology professors. During these events the council mem­bers will provide the audience with information about UCC, Weir said. 
Council members said they expect a large turnout at the 
lectures,  in  particular  the  
numerous  psychology  stu­ 
dents.  

Onkka said that some of the seven UCC staff psychiatrists often teach in the classroom setting. Their lectures, he said, provide students with a connec­tion to the center. "People feel more comfortable talking to a friendly face," he said. The UCC has both group therapy sessions and individual con­sultations. Six doctoral stu­dents and three interns, who are on the advanced level of doctoral training, assist the staff with the counseling. 
Bartlett said students can probably talk to the doctoral students and interns more easi­ly. 
Included in the UCC plans this year will be "an attempt to become more sensitive to providing more support to minority students," Bartlett said. 
Last spring UCC officials met with minority faculty members to ask their advice on how they could be more respon­sive to minority needs, he said. 
continued from page 1 
nity service sites. 
Half of the money raised by 
the event will go to South Bend 
agencies to help reduce hunger 
locally, and the other half will 
go to an overseas project to al­
leviate hunger abroad. An or­
ganizational meeting for 
anyone interested will be held 
at 7 p.m. on Oct. 29 at the Cen­
ter for Social Concerns. 
Other agenda topics included 
the American Heart Associa­
tion's "Jump Rope for Heart" 
campaign which is still in the 
organization stages. Chairman 
Daley said the event would be 
a good opportunity for the indi­
vidual dorms to make money, since 10 percent of each partic­ipant's earnings will be kept by the individual dorms. 
Daley also asked the Council for their opinions on a "Pizza Hut Contest" in which, during a designated week, the dorm which ate the most pizza would receive a free pizza party for 25 people. The Council collec­tively agreed with the concept, but asked Daley if he would speak with Pizza Hut represen­tatives about increasing the size of the free party to be won. 
Council member Pete Gutrich spoke in an effort to recruit representatives from the HPC for a student feedback group that is currently being organized by the University Counseling Center. 

SObering
Advice .·· 
can 

alife 
.•.·.4/­


Wednesday, October 14, 1987

The Observer
page 4 
$5 million confiscated in Indiana pot busts 
Associated Press estimate of the crop's value. The crop filled three trucks 
More than $5 million in ma­and 20 pickups, and officers rijuana has been confiscated burned it in a barnyard Mon­and three men arrested in two day night, using about a dozen separate Indiana drug busts, old tires to fuel the flames, said authorities said. Sheriff Harley Melton. 
An Indianapolis man was ar­Meanwhile, in Pulaski rested Monday night in connec­County, two men were arrested tion with a $3.2 million mari­and 1,100 pounds of marijuana juana harvest in Owen County. worth $2 million was seized. 
Claude Atkinson, 58, was ar­Sheriff Charlotte Ward said 
rested on a charge of possess­police interrupted a harvesting
ing marijuana with the intent operation Monday in the nor­
to distribute. thern part of the county. 
The 60-acre marijuana crop She said Mark Minix, 26, of was one of the largest in the Starke County was arrested at state. Police found plants up to the scene, and Michael Shep­eight feet high, entwined in a perd, 35, of Pulaski County was corn crop just west of the town arrested later at his home. of Freedom. The crop was hid­den within a 100-acre farm. The sheriff said police seized 
State Police Cpl. Rick Hash 100 pounds of marijuana at the of Bloomington said the $3.2 field and 1,000 pounds at Shep­million figure is a conservative perd's property. 



France to restore 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
Cross-legged contemplation 
famous monument
Freshman Sarah Johnson tries to get some work lured students back outdoors. It is especially welcome 
done by the entrance to the Architecture Building. after the drizzly, miserable conditions last week. 
Associated Press ister Francois Leotard said. 
The mild, sunny weather of the past few days has 
The cost of restoring the 151­

PARIS -An international year-old monument is esti­fund-raising campaign was mated at about $6 million, half launched Tuesday to restore of which will be paid by the gov­
the ailing Arch of Triumphj ernment. Six private compan­which now sits swaddled in ies, including American Ex­diaper-like netting to keep press, are spearheading the 
Pentagon: not told of arms sales 
Associated Press the commander-in-chief of the pact of the sale on U.S. weap­chunks of stone from falling on drive for additional funds with United States can do what he ons stocks or on their possible tourists visiting the Tomb of contributions of 500,000 francsWASHINGTON-The Reagan wants to do . . . Whether it is impact on the Iran-Iraq war, in the Unknown Soldier. (around $83,000) each.
administration bypassed nor­wise or not is a separate ques­which the United States was of­The role of American money mal Pentagon channels when it tion." ficially neutral, Crowe said. 
in preserving the monument, ''The government alonedecided to sell weapons to Iran Crowe said, too, that no While those weapons in the commissioned by Napoleon in could finance the entire opera­and failed to get the military's active-duty military officer long run may have proven not 1806 to glorify his battlefield tion," Leotard told a news con­assessment on the impact of should lead the National Secur­to have profoundly influenced victories, has sparked protests ference. "But it is the respon­those sales on the Iran-Iraq ity Council. He did not refer by the military balance in the war, from French nationalists. sibility of our citizens, of ourwar, the nation's top uniformed name to newly retired Rear the U.S. judgment prior to But leaders in the campaign, entire nation. The Arc deofficer has told Congress. Adm. John Poindexter, who, as making the sale "was an intu­headed by former President Triomphe is not a monumentAdm. William Crowe, chair­Reagan's national security ad­itive one, not an analytical Valery Giscard d'Estaing, said like any other. It symbolizesman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, viser, headed the council one," he said. 
funds from any source would the glory and the suffering ofsaid he did not learn about the during much of the Iran-Contra Crowe added that he did not be welcome. our nation."
arms sales until at least five affair, in which profits from the believe the decision to avoid The first check received wasmonths after President Iran arms sales were diverted using the normal system of mil­for $50 from Hugh McMahon, a The arch is one of many his­Reagan approved them in Jan­to support Nicaraguan rebels. itary notification for covert ac­World War II veteran from torical monuments in Parisuary 1986. But Crowe added there was tions was made by Reagan Fort Lauderdale, Fla. suffering the effects of age, pol­When he eventually asked no way to write rules that could himself, but was made by "We are very anxious to have lution, rain, heavy automobileDefense Secretary Caspar offer an ironclad guarantee subordinates "to keep dissent Americans participate in res­traffic and the vibrationsWeinberger about the sales, against future problems. out of the decision-making cal­toring the arch," Culture Min-caused by subway lines. 
Crowe said, Weinberger Crowe said he had concerns culus." 
replied that "it was his under­about military personnel will­The investigators said the 
standing that a conscious deci­ing to provide advice in order sales totally depleted U.S. in­
sion had been made that it was to keep a covert action ventories of 15 kinds of replace­
not a military matter, so it was restricted to a closed circle of ment parts for Hawk missiles appy 21st 
not necessary to bring in the people. He said those officials and 31 other parts were signif­
military." represented themselves as icantly depleted. The weapons were trans­defense experts but "didn't 
Mr. Fish! 

ferred from Defense Depart­have the means" to give solid Crowe also told the inves­ment stocks to the CIA, which or complete advice. tigators that he occasionallyhelped get them to Iran. "That is a very prejudiced saw intelligence that indicated The admiral made the state­view," Crowe conceded, the existence of a private arms 
Love,

ments to congressional Iran­"because as the chairman, I supply to the Contras fightingContra investigators in a think if you want a military Nicaragua's leftist govern­
Jimmy Lee,

deposition last June. It was bias in the sense of the chiefs, ment. But he said he did not 
made public Tuesday by the you should go to the chairman, know at the time that retired 
Iran-Contra committees, now not to the NSC adviser." Air Force Major Gen. Richard Chili Mac, 
preparing to issue their report Before U.S. sales of TOW Secord was involved in the op­on the affair later this month. anti-tank missiles and Hawk eration or where the private & Crowe said he and anti-aircraft missiles to Iran, suppliers obtained the moneyWeinberger "both agreed that no analysis was made of the im-for the weapons. Mom 



If you are  
Organized and Enthusiastic  
and like to have a good time,  
talk to us.  
A handful of college students are  
running a multi-million dollar national  
charity fundraising event and  
WE NEED YOUR HELP!  
$  
$  
$  $  

Wednesday, October 14, 1987 The Observer 
page 5 


A man enjoys a quiet moment alone by Saint Mary's Lake. With the changing colors of autumn, the lakes have become a popular haunt for joggers or students 
who want to relax and escape the academic grind for a few minutes. 


Children massacred in Baghdad 
Asociated Press The force of the explosion minutes before the school bell, blew down parts of the build-but only three of those killed 
BAGHDAD, Iraq-A missile ing, Principal Ismael Ghetan were adults. All but 22 of the fired from Iran exploded at an Jassim said, but, he added, wounded were children, the elementary school Tuesday "Thank God it didn't hit the radio said. morning as pupils filed into the classrooms complex itself, or It was the fourth Iranian mis­building for classes, killing 32 casualties would have been sile to strike the Iraqi capital people and wounding 218, much higher." since Oct. 4, and the first to nearly all of them children, of-Neighbors said 12 members cause major casualties. It ficials said. of one family were killed in the spurred fears of a new round 
Shrapnel, shattered concrete house on which the missile of the War of the Cities that and shards of glass flew made a direct hit. killed thousands of people on through the playground of the Baghdad radio said the mis-both sides in its seven years of Monument of Martyrs school, sile destroyed 16 other build-existence. witnesses said. Textbooks and ings in the heavily Iran has lobbed more than 30 ""'"v~•u"'"'" lay strewn about. area when it missiles into this city of 5 mil­
ot;)OO()()OCK)0()00()00()010C)<J~040CtO~OC>0•0()00()000 lion people, and dozens more have hit other cities. 
The official radio quoted a military spokesman as saying: "It is our right and duty to respond to this ugly crime." He said Iran had "declared a war of the cities and so it shall be. It is time for revenge." 
Iraq has threatened to "flat­ten Tehran and other cities" because of Iranian shelling of border towns, and claims to have new long-range missiles that can reach the Iranian cap­ital. 
Iran normally uses Soviet­
Scud-S surface-to­surface missiles in its attacks, and they cannot be aimed 
THE lAW SCHOOL CARAVAN 
• • Don't miss this chance to rub elbows with the BEST! 
Co-sponsored by the Pre-Law Society and Career and Placement Services 
STEPAN CENTER October 14 
2:00 · 4:00 pm representatives 
~--~~~~~~~ 



President Arias wins Nobel peace prize 
Associated Press 

OSLO, Norway -President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica won the Nobel Peace Prize on Tues­day for a Central American peace plan that he fashioned and persuaded the region's other leaders to adopt. 
Selection of Arias was a surprise, and unusual because the choice was based at least partially on accomplishments after nominations closed Feb. 
1. There were 93 candidates, in­cluding 15 organizations. 
President Reagan, who has called the Arias plan "fatally flawed," said Tuesday: "President Arias fully deserves .the Peace Prize for having started the Central American region on the road to peace." 
The Norwegian parliament's Nobel Committee cited Arias, 46, as "the main architect" of the plan the five Central Amer­ican presidents signed Aug. 7 and now are putting into effect. 
Committee Chairman Egil Aarvik told reporters the award was meant to add im­petus and be "a support for the democratic process in the whole region." 
Asked whether the commit­tee was trying to influence the peace process, he replied: "It is our sincere wish that it will do so." 
Arias, reached on vacation at a Costa Rican beach resort, said the award was "incredible." 
"I accept it for Costa Rica, for peace, and not only for Costa Rica but for ·Central America, where 25 million human beings deserve to live in peace, with optimism, with some hope of progress," he said. 
"We must not forget that in this moment, in which the eyes of the world are fixed on Central America, that this little geographic part of the world has suffered," he added, call­ing for an end to the civil wars in Nicaragua and El Salvador. 
Aarvik said his five-member committee did not decide until late September who should get the Peace Prize, which like the other 1987 Nobel awards in­cludes a cash payment of $340,000. 
The Central American peace plan is intended to end guerrilla wars in Nicaragua, El Sal­vador and Guatemala. It re­quires cease-fires, amnesties and measures bringing greater democracy to be arranged by Nov. 7, when each nation is to report on its progress. 
A peace conmission is to verify compliance with the plan by Jan. 7, four months after it was signed in Guatemala City by the presi­dents of Costa Rica, El Sal­vador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. 
The Reagan administration supports both Contra rebels fighting the leftist Sandinista government in Nicaragua and the centrist government of El Salvador, where a civil war with leftist guerrillas began eight years ago. 



Lecture 
continued from page 1 

Galbraith noted a theme thoughout history of economic policies being adapted to suit the circumstances of the time. He stated what he considers to be the three great accommoda­tions of modern economists to the problems of capitalism: Marxian economics, the wel­fare economics, and the eco­nomic theories of John Maynard Keynes. 
"Marx's solution to the ills of capitalism was simply to abolish it," Galbraith said. 
He noted the the theories of the welfare economists in the Great Wel­fare Revolution headed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt and former British Prime Minister David Lloyd George. They took public ac­tion to equalize the power be­tween employers and employees through such pro­grams as Social Security, Medicare, and public transpor­tation. "A floor was put on farm prices so that farmers wouldn't feel particularly sin­gled out as an exploited class," Galbraith added. 
"The Keynesian Revolution addressed the popular inter­pretation of Smith's idea that production will always supply its own demand," said Galbraith. He added that the government began to take re­sponsibility for problems that 
are inherent in the free market. 
While governmental legisla­tion solves the problems that naturally arise in a capitalistic economy, they have become "self-liquidating," according to Galbraith. They have been greatly weakened by their own success because people be­come more comfortable with their situations and less open to the very type of change that helped them. 
"There arises a mass denial of social problems when people get comfortable, and the poor are often forgotten. The poor become more politically powerless than before the legis­lation," said Galbraith. 
Galbraith concluded his speech by saying, "Capitalism's harsh edges have been taken away by social legislation. We must address the problems, always recogniz­ing the danger of bureaucratic excesses." 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, October 14, 1987 

Haitian presidential
Security Beat 
candidate shot dead 
Monday, October 12 
2:51a.m. A Notre Dame Police Of­ficer discovered that a car in the D2 parking lot had been vandalized. Upon further investigation, she found the dash severely damaged and the stereo missing. The owner, a Flanner resident, has been notified. 
1:30 p.m. Notre Dame Security received a report from Navy ROTC advising that a Lewis Hall resident bad lost ber ROTC check. 
2 p.m. A janitor found a key ring with a snap hook and 6 keys in Nieuwland Science Hall. 
5:32 p.m. A Student Union Board member reported the theft of a white plastic wall clock with the ND emblem on the face from his office over the weekend. 
8:10p.m. A St. Mary's student was injured in the band annex when a table fell off a shelf and hit her face. She was taken to the Student Health Center with a laceration. 

Tuesday, October 13 
8:55 a.m. A student was found to have affixed a faculty decal on his car. The matter has been turned over to Student Affairs. 
1 p.m. An off-campus student re­ported the loss of his wallet on Juniper Rd. between Douglas and Bulla sometime between 8 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m. on Monday. The loss is estimated at $70. 
2:15p.m. A Lyons Hall resident re­ported the theft of five blank checks from her bookbag at the South Dining Hall between 11:30 a.m. and noon on Monday. 



Senior Steve Morita mixes margaritas in a demonstra­niques bartenders can use to promote responsible tion of bartending for alcohol awareness week. The drinking, such as giving intoxicated customers drinks demonstration, held in the Montgomery Theatre in with less alcohol. LaFortune Student Center last night, showed tech-
Deaths, lootings mark funeral 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia -Rioters in the funeral procession for slain leftist leader Jaime Pardo Leal looted stores, and at least one person was killed Tuesday as unions called a general strike to protest the assassina­tion. 
The death brought to 11 the number of people killed since Pardo Leal, president of the Patriotic Union, was shot to death Sunday night by gunmen who stopped his car on a rural road. 
Some airline flights were cancelled because of the vio­lence across the country. 
At least 460 members of left­wing parties have been killed in the past two years, and rela­tives of some of the victims have blamed paramilitary death squads. 
An estimated 20,000 people joined in the funeral procession from the Colombian Congress building to a cemetery two miles away on ElDorado Ave­nue. 
Dozens of looters, running ahead of the procession, smashed store windows and carried away clothing, electri­cal appliances and other arti­cles. 
Some broke into the Bank of Bogota and fled with several typewriters and pieces of office equipment. About three dozen arrests were reported. 
Three members of President Virgilio Barco's Cabinet tried to join the procession and were driven away by rocks thrown by people accompanying the coffin. Forced away were Jus­tice Minister Enrique Low, Minister of Government Cesar Gaviria and Foreign Minister Julio Londono. 
Barco released a statement Monday saying the killers of Pardo Leal, 47, were enemies of peace and democracy. 
Army troops were called out to patrol cities and towns. A 13-year-old boy was shot and killed in the central Colom­

bian town of Barrancabermeja and his father was wounded when soldiers tried to break through a roadblock of burning tires, the National Police said in a communique. 
In Bogota, rioters blocked streets with barrels and bur­ning tires, the office of Mayor Juio Sanchez said in a state­ment. 
University  of  Notre  Dame  
Foreign  Study Programs  
Attention:  

ALL STUDENTS GOING TO 

SPRING 1988 
OCC1f'OJEJEIT'?. 15,.
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE: 

420 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING FOREIGN STUDIES OFFICE 
ATTENTION SENIOR TRIP MEMBERS 
19>~1 

MANDATORY MEETING WEDNESDAY 101.4 8:00 PICK UP LUGGAGE TAGS, FLIGHT INFO, ALONG WITH A QUESTION-ANSWER SESSION. LaFORTUNE LITTLE THEATER 

Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti ­Police shot and killed on Tues­day a presidential candidate who was demanding in a speech near police headquarters that an alleged political prisoner be released, witnesses said. 
Plainclothes police walked out of the station, approached Yves Volel of the Christian Democratic Rally, beat him and then shot him, a reporter from TeleHaiti said. 
In a communique from police headquarters, police did not address allegations that they killed Volel. They said he had been armed and that they were looking for "his accomplices." 
Police cleared the area of bystanders and reporters, and confiscated the film, cameras and equipment of photog­raphers, witnesses said. 
Personals 
continued from page 10 
To those gorgeous girls from Badin I mean Lewis Here's your personal 

LOOK OUT, WORLD, ELIZABETH GERRISH IS NOW 211 BEWARE OF THIS 
.................................... ·································· My NISDC buddy, We had a helluva time finding out who you were, but it was definitely worth the effort. Thanx for a GREAT time Fri. night· I'm still finding hay in my jacket! ·the girl who loves your smile 
.................................. 

THURSDAY, OCT. 15, IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER UNTIL TUESDAY, OCT. 27. CLASSIFIED ADS FOR THURSDAY'S ISSUE SHOULD BE SUBMITTED BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY (TODAY). 
I NEED CAFFINEI I NEED CAFFINEI GET THE FRIES I GET THE FRIESI 
TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE BACK FROM PITTSBURGH ON SUNDAY OCT 25 CALL 284·5489 
............................. ···························· 
Salut David, Are you sure you won't come home with me? I'll miss you. Be sure to watch out for those crazed belly-dancers I hear are on the loose! Je t'aime bien. The Little Baby 
To the In Alumni, thanka again lor auch an unforgettable SYR. Hope you know It haa been declared "MIKE IN HELL WEEK." Till tomorrow! Your friends from Regina 
ln the statement, police said, "Yves Volel presented himself at police headquarters with a group of armed men and made a 10-minute speech. Several shots were fired. Yves Volel carried a Colt .45 pistol." 
Commenting on the state­ment, Jean-Claude Bajeux, co­leader of the main opposition group, the Front for Concerted Action, said: "That is the whole world turned upside down. They do what they want. All the army communiques are lies." 
Louis Roy, one of the key drafters of the constitution, said the slaying was part of a plan to create insecurity that would make the holding of fair elections in November diffi­cult. 
"Today it's Vole!. Tomorrow it will be somebody else," he said. 
Volel is the second presiden­tial candidate to be slain in the past three months. 
RED 300 ZX HIT MONDAY NIGHT AT COMMONS II anyone saw It happen, please call Marc at 27HI675. NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF GUlLTV COMES FORWARD. 
Will trade rooms at hotel across from campus for 2 tickets for USC game andk>r ALABAMA game. Call 2534 PLEASE I 
SAILING CLUB 
MEETING 
TONIGHT 
6:30 at boathouse 
Kathleen: Cheer up. Live it up. You have beautiful eyeslll I hope you feel better. Look toward to Mul· doon's. Love, Chilly Willy. 
........ ························ ························ Thank you so much St. Jude . 
SC's please. Chris:1B61 ·································· ................................. . Hey everybody! The TWINS are going to DO IT this year!ll 
OUT OF CONTROL DO YOU ENJOY ROAD TRIPS AND PARTIES? DO YOU LIKE A CHAL· LENGE? ABOUT 20 COLLEGE STUDENTS ARE RUNNING A MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR, NATION· WIDE FUNDRAISER AND WE NEED YOUR HELPI FOR MORE INFO CONTACT DAVE IN 366 DILLON X1851 
We'll dale JIM MILLIGAN! 
...................... ························ ..................... Mags, Happy B·dayl We had funl What could've besn? It might've worked but will we ever know? 
Either way, no hard feelings and lots of love I Trust me, you gotta wing it one of these times. Spon· tanaiety......Tim 
....................... SHOTOKAN KARATE Underground Club or inter· ested people. Call 2046. 
From all of US! 

Have a Great Day Diane! Love ya! Melinda 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, October 14, 1987 page 7 
Authority of Pope is supreme 

Paul Stetler, in his Viewpoint column  ment as Gospel; they dispute the Pope  
("Modern Catholics question author­ and tradition only." The Greek Or­ 
ity," Sept. 24), had displayed a gross  thodox Church disputes Pope and tradi­ 
misunderstanding of the Catholic  tion only; Luther and the Lutherans dis­ 
Church's nature. He argues that  pute Pope and tradition only; the  
modern American Catholics demon­ Anglican Church disputes Pope and  
strate a maturity in their thought which  tradition only; Calvin and the Cal­ 
was absent from previous generations  vinists dispute Pope and tradition only.  
of American Catholics. This maturity  The question which must be posed is:  
in thought is manifested in the modern  what is distinctly Catholic about a view  
Catholic's questioning with regards to  which rejects the Pope and the tradi­ 
traditional morality. Stelter writes:  tional Catholic moral view?  
"Since the 1960's, Americans as a whole  The Pope is not an elected politician  
have been rejecting the traditional  who must respond to the present day's  
morality that was passed from gener­ whims, and the Catholic Church is not  
ation to generation and have been let­ merely a human construction designed  
ting their conscience be their guide."  to change according to the current fas­ 
William A. Murray  hions. Catholics believe that the Pope is the vicar of Christ and that Christ established the Church on earth in or­ 
guest column  der to tend to His flock until He came again. These Catholic beliefs are a mat­ 
ter of faith, and those who do not have  
While it is perhaps prudent for  faith cannot justly call themselves  
Americans to be distrustful of  Catholic.  
politicians after Vietnam and Water­ The Catholic believes that God  
gate, it is not at all wise for American  reveals the truth on earth through the  
Catholics to use this same logic with  Church. The Catholic is not subject to  
regards to the Church. Apparently in  the individualistic theology which Stel­ 
Stelter's mind, the Pope and the  ter lauds, which would have the Cath­ 
Church's officials are merely men who  olic somehow discover the truth by him­ 
are serving in an office constructed by  self. John Henry Cardinal Newman in  
and for humans. Hence, just as  his Apologia Pro Vita Sua states:  
politicians are subject to our every  "Whenever men are able to act at all,  
doubt and objection, so is the Pope.  there is the chance of extreme and in­ 
Somehow, we are "wiser" Catholics, in  temperate action; and therefore, when  
Stelter's view, if we question the  there is exercise of mind, there is the  
Church at every turn, just as we can  chance of wayward or mistaken exer­ 
be considered more intelligent  cise. Liberty of thought is in itself a  
Americans if we constantly question  good; but it gives an opening to false  
the White House.  liberty. Now by Liberalism I mean  
Joseph Ratzinger, Cardinal Prefect of  false liberty of thought, or the exercise  
the Sacred Congregation for the  of thought upon matters, in which, from  
Doctrine of the Faith, insightfully ex­ the constitution of the human mind,  
plains this modern understanding of the  thought cannot be brought to any suc­ 
Church: "My impression is that the  cessful issue, and therefore is out of  
authentically Catholic meaning of the  place. Among such matters are first  
reality 'Church' is tacitly disappearing,  principles of whatever kind; and of  
without being expressly rejected. Many  these the most sacred and momentous  
no longer believe that what is at issue  are especially to be reckoned the truths  
is a reality willed by the Lord himself.  of Revelation. Liberalism then is the  
Even with some theologians, the  mistake of subjecting to human judge­ 
Church appears to be a human con­ ment those revealed doctrines which  
struction, an instrument created by us  are in their nature beyond and indepen­ 
and one which we ourselves can freely  dent of it, and of claiming to determine  
reorganize according to the require­ on intrinsic ground the truth and value  
ments of the moment." The question,  of propostions which rest for their  
though arises: if the Church is merely another human construction then what  reception simply on the external au­thority of the Divine Word (Note  
differentiates it from any number of  A.,Liberalism)." As human beings, we  
other Christian churches? In Stelter's  cannot always hope to rationally grasp  
words, "(American Catholics) still ac­ the mysteries of the Church, but we  
cept Christ as Lord and the New Testa­ must accept them through faith.  

Doonesbury 
(j/}NCtE UON£L IS 015P/J:TCH&O 
I KNOW. TOO AaDtl1ti10PATING. 7D TRY 70 l!tASON 11/fTH 51</PPY, 
THAT'5 WHY IM SIJPPOI<TlNG GeORGe 815H'5 &VIt TWIN. 
PeT& fl() PONT/ H&'5 NU75, BUT ATlEAST YOU KNOIIJ WHeRE
SKIPPY, 1fTt.EAST TA/.K TO 
HE 5TAN/J5... UNa&

• GeoRG&/ H&'5 ANACCOMMO­
.---..... /..IONU, WHYAR&

-r-;:~ OATING MAN/ YOU GTAI<ING
'!~)~ / 
ATM&?
e ,_ 

The column in question concludes by greater difficulty to allow of an uncer­stating, "I think it is the ultimate re­tain rule of faith, than (if that was the sponsibility of all Catholics to make alternative, as it is not), to impose upon these choices of morality and authority uneducated minds a profession which for themselves, and to follow their own they cannot understand (V,3)." consciences. Only in this way can the The Catholic Church, in a world of Church find its true path." If the moral relitivism, is an institution Church were to act as an advisory agent respected by believers and non­to Catholics with regards to maral believers alike as unchanging with virtues, I think she would not be on the regard to the eternal truths of morality. right path; rather, this divine covenant, Any attempt to assert that the Catholic which has served proudly for almost faith as simply another view which can 2000 years, would quickly degenerate be accepted or rejected by the believer in our world, no longer standing for according to his individual beliefs is what she once stood for. Newman in "A false. To insist that dissent from Cath­Grammar of Assent" states, "It is olic Church's moral views is akin to plain, there cannot be two rules of faith mature behavior demonstrates a lack in the same communion, or rather, as of understanding of the Church's nature the case really would be, an endless and suggests that by lack of respect for variety of rules, coming into force ac­"authority figures" such as the Pope, cording to the multiplication of hereti­one might be displaying his own lack cal theories, and to the degrees of of maturity. knowledge and varieties of sentiment in individual Catholics. There is but one William A. Murray is a junior in the rule of faith for all; and it would be a College of Arts and Letters. 
P.O. Box Q 
Bigotry can exist in numerous forms  cepts, and I believe Mr. Barnes may have experienced and even partici­pated in both of these prejudices. I am  
alarmed at Mr. Barnes as he hastily  
Dear Editor:  assumes that only those acts which of­ 
In the October 8 Observer, Daniel  fend obvious ethnic groups should be  
Barnes exalted Father Griffin's obser­ recognized as bigotry. The fact remains  
vation that "racial discrimination  that bigotry and prejudice are not  
remains in society today," as if this  restricted simply to black versus white  
insight were some sort of divine revela­ or white versus black. In fact, other  
tion. Mr. Barnes continued by suggest­ forms of bigotry do exist, as Mr. Barnes  
ing that "the negative reaction by  indirectly reveals when he paints him­ 
Notre Dame blacks should make people  self untainted by the hand of prejudice  
think about the existence of bigotry and  during his high school career. In actu­ 
prejudice at Notre Dame." Ultimately  ality, Mr. Barnes is nothing more than  
Mr. Barnes questioned why bigotry has  that which he condemns -prejudiced  
become a characteristic of his gernera­ and a bigot. His crusade against the  
tion. This final question left him per­ so-called "right-wingers" from "born­ 
plexed since he had fought "the preju­ again fundamentalist churches" should  
dice and narrow-mindedness of  no more be condoned than the Ku Klux  
right-wingers who went to born-again  Klan's "struggle" for White  
fundamentalist churches" in high  supremacy. Bigotry is bigotry -whe­ 
school. Perhaps I can clear up some of  ther it be from the right or from the  
the confusion that Mr. Barnes may be  left. The worst bigotry lies shrouded in  
experiencing.  pseudo-tolerance such as Mr. Barnes  
would have us believe we should em­ 
Apparently the revelation that rac­ ulate.  
ism exists today came as a great shock  
to Mr. Barnes. Surprise! Neither rac­ John Staunton  
ism nor discrimination are new con- Grace Hall  
Garry Trudeau  
Quote of the Day  
50 a/HAT ARe  
YOU WING TH/35£ I'M A  
/JAYS, SKIPPY'? F:I/CEl£.55I 8UREAUCRAT.  
\  "The joys of parents are se­ 
cret, and so are their griefs and  
fears."  
Frances Bacon  
1561-1626  

General Board

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. Brian Murray Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ........... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor .................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager .................. Melinda Chapleau News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Wamke 
The Obse111er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton the administration of either Institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schlndele possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Commentarlea, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1988 
Acce
Wednesday, October 14, 1987 
Words of wisdom from desk-top philosophers 
J am totally naked. 
I was sitting in the library Sunday night reading Plato's "Phaedo" when I saw those words scratched on the wood of the desk I was sitting at. It had been a hard week. I was tired, bored and generally ready for a break. Usually I enjoy Plato, but that night he just wasn't making it. Depres­sion was setting in. That's when I saw it: "I am totaiJ.y naked." 
KrlsMurphy 
Altered 
What a revelation! Someone had once sat in the same desk that I was sitting at. probably just as bored and tired as I. Then they'd had a vision--a vision of nakedness. Sure It was weird, sure it was probably perverted, and It was definitely out of place on a desk In the library; but it was a vision nonetheless! It extended beyond the drab confines of the Memorial Llb-ooops!--the Theodore Hesburgh Library, and it showed that whoever wrote it had been dreaming of a better state of being. I felt better already, and I decided to seek out more transcendental graffiti. 
In the carrel next to mine someone had written, "Kill all Notre Dame women in '88," and below that someone else replied, "Notre Dame boys are geeks with big egos." 
Hmmmmmm. That made me think. I had never wanted to kill a Notre Dame girl. I knew a guy who punched a Notre Dame girl in the teeth while they were dancing together once. (He said it was a mis­take, but I knew better.) I'd never even gotten that close. I'll be the first to admit that I've thought about slapping one or two, but I decided that killing them was just wrong. The vibes were just way too intense y'know? Another thing. why kill all Notre Dame women in '88? Why not '87 or '86? Think about it. 
As far as "Notre Dame boys are geeks with big egos," I only agreed halfway. We all have big egos, but the geek quotient is relatively low. It's limited to everyone wearing Spuds McKenzie shirts, hats, buttons and sweatshirts. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
I moved to the tenth floor. There I found that Mary Lou Retton is: (1) Fat. (2) Ugly, (3) An unprintable aqjective describing Miss Retton's al­leged promiscuous nature. 
That made me angry. Here this girl trains for years and sacrifices a normal chilhood so that she can become a ~reat gymnast and make her country proud of her in the Olympics, and then some guy at Notre Dame puts her moral character in question. I'll admit that Mary 
Lou looks crummy in tights. I'll 
also admit that she isn't the 
best-looking gymnast this col­
umnist has ever seen. It's 
going way too far to bring her 
dating habits into the question, 
though. 
I was steamed. I wanted to 
write to her and say, "Mary 
Lou, honey, I think you're okay 
and I'll fight any creep who 
says different." I didn't do it. 
though. I decided she just 
wasn't worth the trouble. In­
stead, I kept reading. 
A group of philosophical graffiti caught my eye. "Jesus is coming soon, are you ready?" was written at the very top of a carrel. Right below someone had replied with "Yes I'm baking pies." Nearby some­one had asked a question that I haven't been able to stop thinking about since I saw it: "Why do people drive on parkways and park on driveways?" I was still reeling from that when I read "Give a man a fish and he eats for a day. Teach him to fish and you can sell him a pole." 
So this was what my class­mates were really thinking! And here I'd thought that everyone was studying. It made this PLS major feel good to know that people around here are inter­ested in the big questions in­stead ofjust wanting to get rich. 
A final quote in the philosophical section seemed to me to be a kind of con­densed Notre Dame Manifesto. In green highlighter someone had written, "I love to drink," and directly below that In blue ink was "I drink to love." Notre Dame never seemed so simple to me as at that one shining moment. 


Back on the tenth floor I 
found something Incredible. 
The Jane Jetson Shrine. It was 
a huge picture of Jane Jetson, 
outlined on a carrel In blue Ink. 
The hair was stunningly ren­
dered in bright yellow magic 
marker and the eyes were 
holes gouged In the wood. It 
looked just like her! All around 
It people had written loving 
messages to Jane: "Jane, stop 
this crazy thing!", "Jane is ideal 
beauty!", "Jane Is chaste" and, 
of course, "Janel Have my 
child!" 
I was touched. I'd always loved Jane from afar, but it felt good to know that others felt the same as I. Go visit Jane's shrine on the tenth floor. You'll be glad you did. 
On the fifth floor I found some of my classmates stand­Ing up for their political Ideals. Someone had written "Notre Dame Fascist Republican Pigs 

GIRLS 1\-\\NI<. 'SM~ 1\l-\1) 1\Rt._ PR\:OCC\lPIED 'N\\1-\ PEm' \JE\1\\LS. 13UT BOYS \\4\~K 8/6.' 8)(S 1\-\1\\\K 1\B.JVT 1\C:'i\OI'\ AAI:l 1\S:CO~I'l\S\\t-\00' ~0 ~lli:Q ITS MEN W\.10 
G\JI..\1.\GE T\\E 'NORLI).' 
·: \"S" 

Bill Watterson 

Die!" This was followed by "Burn in hell liberal sheeplover." Also on the fifth floor was "Gerry Faust Football Coach--Fact or Fiction?", along with "Blow off Thursdays!" and "Reason Is a conceptual excuse postulated by those without 
faith." 

My favorite though was "It's not college that makes you successfuL It's the Individual you are" followed by: "( 1) It's who you know, (2) It's the God you serve, (3) It's the guy you love! (4) It's the music you play, (5) It's the cologne you 
wear!" I tend to side with the 
cologne guy, even though I 
don't own any. 
I found my final comment on Notre Dame graffiti on the eleventh floor. Written In red ink on a desk was "Are you the type of person who doesn't 
study and ends up getting bad grades? Then stop reading this stupid note and study!" Right below that was written, "Beware: the Clam People Are Comlngll!!" Free expression is a wonderful thing. 


WVFl TOP TEN 
1. 
Elvis is Everywhere Mojo Nixon and Skid Roper 

2. 
Never Let Me Down Again ·oepeche Mode 

3. 
Say About Love The BoDeans 

4. 
I Can't Be Counted on The Meat Puppets 

5. 
Darklands The Jesus and Mary Chain 

6. 
The Motion of Love Gene Loves Jezebel 

7. 
Girlfriend in a Coma The Smiths ,8. Everything's Explod.ln' The Flaming Ups 


.9.. Like a Hurricane Mission CJ.K. ,,.Jp.ups Like Sugac.Echo and' the Bunnymen
. . . . . . . . ' ~:.::: . . .. . .,.,,. 


Thill chart eompUed from the playllats of WVfi-AM640 as of Ott. 13 

nt page 8-9 
R.E.M. content with status 
SAFARI, Chicago's award-winning reggae band, will be appearing at The City Umlts In Elkhart on Thursday, October 15, at 9:30 p.m. The group won the Martin's International Reggae Arts Award for "Best New Band" 1985. SAFARI's music can regularly be heard on Sunday's, from 12-2 a.m., on WSND-FM 88.9. 
said. "I try to make clear I work 
for a record company. But I've 
noticed some glances." 
Things have worked well for 
I.R.S. and R.E.M. "We were Inter­ested in being on a smaller label," Buck said. "We were afraid that on a major label, we'd be pushed Into doing things not natural to us. 
"It was the record company who thought of doing Dead Let­ter Office. I like things like that. Some of that stuff (on the album) is entertaining for Its looseness and casualness. I like for people to see our whimsical and fun side. I'd forgotten how good some of those songs were. Most were B-sldes. Some were English I 2-inches, very obscure, where (only) .3,000 were pressed." 
About the new LP Document. Buck says, "I hate to say It's a thematic record. That's so pretentious. The idea was to take a look at the world as we see it. Musically it needed to be linked to an idea of the chaotic time we live ln. 
"You push and pull songs Into some kind of shape and order. We've thrown songs away where we can't agree on key or tempo. We figure It's easy enough to write songs that we can just write another one. Every record has one song that each of the band members Isn't really wild about, 
but we never do anything some­
one hates. 
"We do videos that aren't 
singles and singles that aren't 
videos. Nobody else does this. 
We work by intuition. On songs 
we figure we've got a good Idea 
for a video, we make one. I don't 
see that rock 'n' roll has to be a 
slave to what Is the single." 
R.E.M. stands for rapid eye movement. "It shouldn't be taken literally," Buck said. "Itwas just the first thing we could think 
of that we liked." 
The members of R.E.M., 
vocalist Michael Stipe, bassist 
Mike Mills, drummer Bill Berry 
and Buck, met before they 
dropped out ofcollege In Athens, 
Georgia. They all stili live there. 
"You're less tense about star­dom In Georgia," Buck says. "Very few people are excited when they see me on the streets of Athens. I've lived there 10 years. It's easy to go home. I have the same friends." 
R.E.M. never tried out any other members. "Michael and I were friends," said Buck. "Bill and Mike were friends. We met and It seemed like a good idea to form a band. It seemed 
everybody else was doing it. "We always had the Idea of being good but not being 
~·'" ·~~~.:.. L 
v-,, ~· 
.. ~. + 

serious about a career. We just got successful. I do this be­cause It Is enjoyable. You make a lot of money, but If It stopped being fun It would be far too much work." 
Mills says this about the group, "I think what we are Is good songwriters with a great on-stage chemistry. There are some dire things going on In the world, so there are some dire things to be said In songs. There Is hope and optimism and a lot of humorous Irony In a lot of Michael's lyrics. We're optimistic. We are hopeful despite the times." 
"We take chances," Mills 
says. "On stage, we change the set list every night. At any point In the set we'll throw the set list out and play things we feel like playing. Recording. we're liable to throw any kind of Instrument on there." 
It's always possible that 
R.E.M. could have a hit single, but Mills says, "There's no point In anticipating after all this time. I thought 'Follow Me' from the last album should have been a hit." Asked what he'd do If R.E.M. got a hit single, Mills replied, "Faint." 
Associated Press 
Members of the Georgia-based rock group R.E.M. are cheerful and up-front about not being su­perstars, here or abroad. The quartet's guitarist Peter Buck says, "I don't know If I could han­dle big fame. I can't Imagine what It would be like to be Prince or Bruce Springsteen or some­body. Now It's at a nice, steady 
rate." 
R.E.M. Isn't doing badly. The group has made an album a year for I. R. 5. Records starting In 1982, plus Dead Letter Office, a collection of B-sldes of singles that was number 188 on October 3, Its 21st week on the best­selling charts. A new LP, Docu­ment. was number 16 on that date and Is still climbing In Its second week on the charts. The 
first single from Document Is "The One I Love." Charted Oct. .3 at number 70 and climbing. It 
Is the best any R.E.M. single has done to date. 
"Everybody lies and says we're huge In Europe. We're well­respected In Europe. We don't 
sell a huge amount of records. We don't have hits," Buck says. "We play to 2,000 or .3,000 In France and 6, 000 In London. We're respected. We won a Grammy In Norway for 'Album of the Year' for Life's Rich Pageant 
in 1986." 
The fact that R.E.M. records for 
I.R.S. causes some funny looks 
when the group enters a foreign country. "If I've had a few drinks, been on a plane eight hours, and my hair Is sticking up in the air, they go, 'This guy works for the American government?"' Buck 

Only in the 
Air Force . . • 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio (AP) -In a remote part of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, civil engineer­ing crews are building a new runway with a twist --this one has bomb craters already built in. 
The $80,000 project Is to be completed by this fall. It Is one of three bases around the country using mock runways designed to teach engineers how to repair bomb craters quickly in case of war. Sim­ulated bombed runways also are being built at Holloman Air Force Base In New Mexico and Tyndall Air Force Base In Florida, according to Lt. Thomas A. Winterhalter of the 2750th Civil Engineering Squadron at Wright-Patterson. 
"They're testing it out at these three bases, and if It's deemed successful, It wlii be Installed at every Air Force base," he said. 
The runway will be a stub strip of asphalt about 700 feet long. Into It will be built two craters, one round and one square, for teaching different reconstruction methods. 
Winterhalter said the round crater, which is 45 feet across and I 0 feet deep, represents the damage a 750-pound bomb would cause. Engineers would fill It with rubble, dirt and stone, level It off and lay a fiberglass mat on top to keep stones from being kicked up Into a plane's engine and to give the plane something more solid to run across, Winterhal­ter said. 
"We're talking about being able to put a seriously­damaged runway back In three to four hours," said Lt. Col. Philip M. Brooks, operations officer of the 200th Civil Engi­neering squadron of the Air National Guard at Camp Perry 
near Port Clinton. The 20oth Is helping to build the mock run­way. 
The VIetnam-era repair method was similar, but used a much heavier aluminum mat. Winterhalter said. Because planes bounce when they hit such heavy mats, they weren't effective much closer than .300 yards apart. but use fiberglass has shortened that distance considerably, Brooks said. 
The purpose of the square crater is to give crews practice in laying concrete slabs, six­feet square and about .3,000 pounds each, Winterhalter said. When laid on top of backfill, 16 of those wlii fill the 26-foot­square crater. Such slabs are used for more permanent re­pairs at established bases. "Those (slabs) are usually used as parking lots. You just pick them up and move them over to the runway," he said. 
A third area gives crews ex­perience In repairing small holes with quick-setting con­crete. 
In one respect, the mock craters aren't realistic because they are lined with concrete to let them take the repeated beating of being filled and emptied of stones. 
"Before we go out and train, we'd probably spread some rubble around there to make It look more realistic," Winterhal­ter said. 
The training will not be lim­Ited to just heavy-equipment operators or specialists in run­way repair. Base plumbers, electricians, anyone assigned to civil engineering will get a crack at helping with repairs. 
Winterhalter's squad Is part · of the Prime BEEF (Base Engi­neering Emergency Force) sys­tem designed to be deployed overseas soon after hostilities break out to maintain vital air­fields. 
-

page 10 The Observer Wednesday, October 14, 1987 
Tile.,...._Notn1 Demit office, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu­-.wt Centw, ~clualfled ~sing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frt~My. 11w .,...._Selnt "'-Y'S office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•, .ccepta clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day claaslfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaslfleds must
Classifieds be pnlpeid, either In person Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five a..ctenl per day. 
NAVY: I need 2 GA's for Navy. Call Ken
MY MOTHER"S BIRTHDAY IS NOV. 14 NEED 3 NAVY GAS CALL 2782 TICKETS NEEDED *'**SOPHOMORES**** 
at 3304.

and all she wants Ia tlx to B.C and Wealthy Wall St. Alum needa Penn St. ****SOPHOMORES****
NOTICES 
BAMA. I need lour tlx to eachll Also NEED and BC tlx. Call Matt 1 "800-223-6559. '***SOPHOMORES.... $$$$ I need 2-3 tickets for the USC game. 
tlx to Navy and Penn. Plaua call LISA ALABAMA U2 283-3701. and GIMMEE, GIMMEE, GIMMEE--2 BAMA U2
Call 271-0122 TYPING AVAILABLE 
NAVY GA'S WILL PAY FOR YOUR CHILD'S LOS LOBOS287-4082 
I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S BEST OFFER BY THURS. 10 P.M. MARC 271-0875 HOCKEY REFEREES WANTED TIX COLLEGE EDUCATION CALL PETE AT LOS LOBOS 
Join the Mlchlana Hockey Officials As­x3811 271-0479 INDIANAPOLIS HOOSIER DOME NOV 1
sociation and officiate In the lrlahTYPINGWORD PROCESSING 

HELPIIII NEED YOUR GA'S FOR USC, CALL CHRIS 
Youth Hockey League. Arrangements 2, 3 OR 4 GA'S NEEDED FOR ALA· can be made so that all of your gamea need 3 BC ga's --call Mary at £2808 BAMA GAME--CALL BILL AT X3366 TWO BUSES
NAVY, AND BC. 
234-8997 WILL PAY BIG $$$$$$$$ CALL 3510 

are In the ACC. To receive an appli­cation cell 2n-9901. NEED 4 BC TIX WILLING TO PAY WANTED: USC TIX Ill CALL JOHN 2236 NOW $35 PER PERSON BUCKS AN[).QR TRADE 2 BAMA GAs
Wordprocesslng-Typing NEED ride to Pitta. 1G18-1!1-24 Call CALL scon £1412 NEED 4 TIX FOR USC. CALL 312-823--SIGN UP TODAYIII272-8827 WILLING TO TRADE 2 U.S.C. G.A.'s
Diane 4132 5328. WILL PAY$$$. 
FOR 2 ALABAMA G.A.'s CALL 1466
Need USC GA TIX. WILL PAY BIG SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICE 
I NEED A RIDE TO NO. N.J.!NYC AREA BUCKS IfII Call Joe 287-4561 after 6pm 2nd FLOOR LaFORTUNE
Typing SENIOR IN NEED OF G.A.'s for HOME PLEASE HELP MElli I NEED 2 B.C. 
2-4 PM THUR. PLEASE CALL CHRIS£1867-HELPIII Sister and hubby need USC BRING YOUR 10 FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE WED. OR
237-1949 or 2n-8131 games, especially U.S.C. and Navy. STUD. TIX OR GA'S. CALL DINKY-
Please help me it's the last time they can 2735. get to a game. Call in the am. or afterHELPII GA's (in pairs). Please call Sieve at 4223 

or I may never see my nephew again Ill
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 10 pm. Thanksl Ann 284-5064. I NEED GAs FOR USC, ALL HOME MRS. COKER 233-7009. ....DO YOU HAVE FRIENDS..''
HELPI I NEED A RIDE HOME FROM GAMES.272-8306

NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIGST. LOUIS AFTER BREAK LEAVING WHO ALWAYS WANTED
NEED FOUR BAMA TICKETS CALL F5 ATTENTION DOMERS TO COME TO AN ND GAME?
ANYTIME AFTER THURSDAY. WILL BUCKSII CALL JOE 2e7-4561 after GREG AT 289-8714 NEED 4 BAMA GA'S HAVE 4 NAVYPAY FOR GAS AND EXPENSES. CALL 6pm.
There will be an ND vistory party after I do and they're counting on me. Please
GA'S AND $$ TO BUY, SELL. OR the Air Force game at Mike Brown's sell me your GA or student tickets for the CHRIS AT X1145. 
TRADE WITH. CALL KEACH 1239 house in Colorado Springs. If you are I NEED 5 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL USC game if you don't plan to be here. 
Need riders tofro DC for break! LISA 287· FOR SALE
going to be there and need directions, SHANNON 2519. HELP HELP HELP I need sell my It'll make their daylll 
to call 283·3150. ......................................................... USC student ticket. I'm asking $10. Call Call Cathy £24886726 U2 11X INDY CONCERT 
CALL 2030 
''''Thankslll'... TypingWord Processing 2n-S014 ..................... 
NEED 2 NAVY GA's: Paul 234-8847 JOHN at 2057
CHILDCARE needed for our 4 yr. old and 7 yr. old. Wed. afternoons only. Must 

····························· Want some fast CASH for break? I need RICH ALUM NEEDS 5 USC TICKS. To NYC 1-way flight Sat, Oct. 17 9:30 one student USC ticket for very special 1163. To the Farley Drooler, Thanks for a greathave own transporta~on. Call 288-3852 
after 5:00. 

am 287-4336 someone. Call Mark a11536. Please. .................................................. time your SYR· Let's do it again, soon! 
.......................... 
MattI NEED 3 USC GA'S ·KATHY 2909 GERRY FAUST will haunt you if you don'tNeed ride to Jackson, Mi after 12 Fri.

NEED RIDERS ........................................................... NEEDED: 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR BC give me 2 USC GA'S CALL JB AT 2e3­
Will pay gas. Call Andy at 3074.

East bound to VA. I live In SW VA but VENEZ NOMBREUXI
YOU GOTTUM AND I WANTUM. NEED GAME. CALL CHRIS AT X1145. 1681 will take riders to D.C. also. Call early 2 NAVY TICKETS CALL CHRIS AT Noua voua attendona a Ia reunion du 
THE BOTTOM LINE seeks business

AM or after 4:30PM. Leaving Fri. Ann R. X1694 I've got to get 2 NAVY stud. tix if I want usc usc usc CERCLE FRANCAIS 288-5328. Ce solr a 8:30 pm. ISO lounge, La For­
manager. Good money to be made. Con· 

.............................. to live. X2669 NEED GA'S OR STUDENT TICKETS 
tact John at 232-5118 or Steve at X3382. 
t~ne, 2nd floor.

WILL SWAP 2 USC TICKETS FOR TWO CALL TRISHA AT 232·1345 
.............................................................. 

BC TICKETS. WILL SWAP 2 PENN HAVE 2 ALGA'S. WILL TRADE FOR 
To my Alumni SYR date. MIKE I

STATE TICKETS FOR 2 BC TICKETS. 2 USC GA'S. CALL 312-833-3696 
who brought me to his room &
CALL BILL STARR 800-343-2820. EVENINGS. 
indirectly told me to put out or get out,
\ lOST/FOUND)(.____FO_R_SA_l_E___, 
WILL ALSO BUY BC FOR $$. 
I'm glad I got out! I just wanted you toNEED 10 USC TIXI know 1 made it salely to the shuttle byLOST-Gold Cross and Chain-Sentimen­MY PARENTS NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC NEED 10 USC TIXI
SONY DISKS myself after being so "graciously" es­tal Value -Please call Doug 2327 AND ALABAMA. CALL DAVID 283-NEED 10 USC TIXI PERSONALS 
Why pay $2.80 or more? Support the corted to lhe door. I may have been the
1997. You can't lose I'm desperate.
MadMacs Macintosh User's Group and lirst but definitely not the last to lurn you
PURPLE BOOK BAG MISSING! If you Mike (800) 345-2059 (Day) or 
get high-quality, Sony 3.5" diskettes for down.-Your thoroughly disgusted date 
"borrowed" my bag Tues Oct 6 from USC: (312) 781-2099 (Eva or Weekend)
only $1.40 each. Contact Tim Dierks at from Regina. P.S.Girls Beware! 
SAGA PleaseiPieasel return anything I need two GAs lor the USC game. Call 
WAKE UPI that is left to me. No questions asked. Mike at 271-0765.
283-2101 or stop by Stanford 136. 
To the date from Hell aka Mike ' I'm really desperate to get it back & will Need 6 USC GA's. Call Jenny 284-4154. 

For Sale--Diamond Lake, Cassopolis, I just wanted to remind you that 
do anything! THANK YOU, LISA 284-..............................................................
Michigan SYR stands lor screw your roommate not 
4454 BC Need NAVY GA's. $25 Jim x1584
Charming 7 cottage. heat, screw your date. I hope you had a great
room Gas Yep, I need two GAs lor the Boston Col· 
stone fireplace. Home newly remodelled. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, night being rejected. Thanks agatn for 
JOE O'CONNOR: I'VE HAD YOUR lege game. Please call Mike at271-0765. DESPERATELY NEED 10-15 NAVY
All new kitchen appliances. Enclosed CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE taking such good care of my friend. ­
FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK SINCE THE G.A.'s AND TWO BC STUDENT TICS.
porch adjoining kitchen area. Dining BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. another admirer lrom Regina
MSU GAMEl I KNOW YOU LIVE ON CALL TODD AT 2937 or 1050. 
room, living room, 3 bedrooms, 1 bath.

CORBY ST. BUT I DON'T KNOW $$$$ I NEED $$$$ BOSTN COLLEGE
One block lrom private Howell Point Park USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD Need a ticket to NY for break? Selling a 
WHERE I SO CALL COLLEEN £3885 IF TICKETS $$$ STUDENTS OR G.A.'S NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC, WILL PAY BIG
with swimming and boat mooring WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT rt plane ticket for $140 Call 284-4640 
YOU WANT TO GO TO THE REST OF CALL FITZ 3758 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ OR TRADE NAVY GA'S CALL JACK
privileges. Great home lor week ends or X4238 ......................................
THE GAMES! 2383 
......................
year 'round living. Ski resorts nearby. HelpiNeed ride to MlpSISt. Paul lor
USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD ............................
Owner $49,900. (616) 445-2219. DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? Break!Piease call Betsy at 4326 
$25 CASH REWARD lor the return ol WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT PLEASE HELP! I need one USC student 
IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS my leather aviators jacket lost In a X4238 ticket! Call Ellen x3950.
I have 2 NAVY GA's. Already been of­WILL BUY THEM I WILL PAY $$$1 CALL Helpll need 2 GA's for USC & Navy!
drunken stupor sometime last week. The fered $75 tor the pair. If still Interested, SUE AT X4238 Please call Marcie 284-4196 
brand name is Midway. Please call Jeff DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? I Need 2 USC G.A.'s Call Pat £3451 $$ 
...........................................
call SLUG at 3105. 

at 3166. IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS ELIZABETH-ANNE CRISP: Jim P
WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL Desperately need 3 or 4 USC Tlx -Stu.
ONE-WAY AIRLINE TICKET TO WASH­Hey Dude! Get plenty of rest lor to­1 had a great time Friday. Thanks. Sue 
LOST: A long gold chain with a TIGER­SUE AT X4238 or GA. Will pay CASH I Call 1793 todayl
INGTON D.C. FOR OCT. BREAK IT'S morrow you will celebrate like never EYE PENDANT, somewhere between 
CHEAP-CALL BILL THE CAT £1506 before! I know you mlaa me. 
the War Memorial and the Architecture HELP! HELPI HELPI I NEED 2 G.A.'S DESPERATELY NEED ONE NAVY GA John Andrew Father's Insurance CoBuilding, on Friday October 9th. There is FOR BOSTON COLLEGE WILL PAY FOR BABY BROTHER. CALL JOE
ROUND-TRIP FLIGHT. S. Bend to Char­would like 2 Barna GA's (How does $100 
a large tiger-eye attached with a half NC. 1CYt7-1Q.20. $218. $$$$ OR TRADE UP WITH 2 NAVY X1631 sound?)
lotte, Value 

moon, six beads, and a bent clasp. It has G.A.'S. CALL ANNE AT 2764
YOUR PRICE $125. 277-8707. Call Sue 284-4035
INCREDIBLE sentimental valuelllll HAVE USC STUD TIX, DAN 1167 Please call Karen at £1992, 143 B-P. I NEED 2 NAVY GA'SI WILL BEAT 
INTERNATIONAL STU­OTHER OFFERS! CALL DAVID X1817 NEED USC GAs CALL 2287 HELLO HOLMESES DENTS...INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
LOST-spanish book, "Tanto Mejor", left In JOB SEARCH SKILLS WORKSHOP;
TICKETS

NDH.If picked up please call Mark 2151, USC-USC NEED 2 USC GA'S I HAVE HELP MElli need many GA's lor Boston TONIGHT 8:00 P.M. 
after 8:30. THANKSII 2 BC GA'S TO TRADE OR CASH KEVIN College. Call Dave at 2238. WANTED: CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER·234-1208 A FEW GOOD DEPRESSED PEOPLE VICES OFFICE-LOWER LEVEL, HES­LOST: Blue Notre Dame backpack be­NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326 $$$$$$ NEED 4 BAMA GA'S CALL THAT NEED SMILES. 
BURGH LIBRARY ALL ARE ENCOUR· tween 12:40 and 12:50p.m. at bookstore NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL TONY 3348 MARK 3592 $$$$$$ Just Cuz AGED TO ATTEND. 
on Mon. HYt 2. If you plan on keeping It, Balloons at least leave the notebooks at LaFortune $$$$$ NED 1 BAMA STU. TIX CALL TONY NEED NAVY GA'S-CALL 1553, ASK 287-8043 lost snd found. I need them for midterms I need 2 GA's to Navy & USC Call Dan 3348 FOR JEFFI 
INTERNATIONAL STU·
this week. Please don't be a savage. Call 3319 DENTS ... INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS Syl at 31321.3134 Need 1 Navy GA for father! Can you SELL ME YOUR USC TICKETS WE DO TAILGATERS. MAKE YOURS JOB SEARCH SKILLS WORKSHOP;
NEEDED: USC GAs. I WILL BEAT help? Please call Frank at 283-2226. BEFORE BREAK. DON'T GET STUCK NOTICEABLE. 
TONIGHT 8:00 p.m.

FOUND-in LaFortune-3 KEYS ON A YOUR BEST OFFERII CALL 1075 Thanks! WITH THEM I NEED GA'S. ALSO NEED Juat Cuz Ballono CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­BLUE N[)IALUMNI ASSOC KEY RING. BAMA TIX. STUD. OR GA. CALL JOE 287-8043 VICES OFFICE-LOWER LEVEL, HES­CALL 284-4425 NEED 3 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S Needed 2073 908 Portage Ave. 
BURGH LIBRARY. ALL ARE ENCOUR­CALL ANN AT 284-5218 4 Navy GA's and 2 stud tix call Brian AGED TO ATTEND. 
LOST: Brown geeky-looking glasses In 1456 HELP! I need two Navy tickets. Student brown, lake leather case. (Tuesday mor­or GA. £4421 Make $15-25 per hour Before and ning, 1D-13) Please call-I can't see a NEED 3 GA'S FOR USC Needed During Home Football Games 
INTERNATIONAL STU­
thing. Mark TNT at 272-2271. CALL JOHN AT 2924 4 Navy GA's & 2 stud tix call Brian at Help! I need two G.A.s for USC game. If you've got a selling personality and are DENTS...INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 1456 . Call Nick at 3068. Thanks. energetic, you can make an easy $400 JOB SEARCH SKILLS WORKSHOP;LOSTIII GOLD NECKLACE AND OVAL in just tour afternoons. Make more if you TONIGHT 8:00 p.m.
LOCKET. INITIALS MEB ON FRONT. NEED 4 GA'S FOR USC DESPERATE FOR 2 GA'S FOR NAVY NEED 2 GA'S EACH FOR USC AND work harder. 
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­HOLDS GREAT SENTIMENTAL CALL SHAWN AT 2235 OR BC. PLEASE CALL DAN X3261. ALABAMA GAMES. CALL BEVERLY Job re(\uires working at the four football VICES OFFICE-LOWER LEVEL, HES­VALUE. PLEASE RETURN TO 435 237-0600 EXT 234 games, being your own manager, and BURGH LIBRARY. ALL ARE ENCOUR­WALSH OR CALL MAURINE AT 2604. NEED 2 USC TIXI STUDENT/GA. $$ NO selling like crazy for a few hours. 
AGED TO ATTEND. 

THANKS I PROBLEM. CALL (404) 392-1500 COL­LETTERMAN WANTS YOU TO SEE Great product that all fans want. High WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? LECT. ASK FOR STEVE JEGIER OR HIM LIVE but only if you trade me 4 USC motivation, responsibility a must. 10 LOST (last week, In D2 parking lot or Then aell me your BC GA'a ao iny LEAVE MSG. GA's. We have 4 Letterman tickets. Call people needed, including one group 
F51NTERNATIONAL STU­
LaFortune laundry room?): JOURNAL of slatera, coualna, and unclea can -234-6183 or 288-8673. Don't disappoint manager. Immediately call 312-348­DENTS... INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS tremendous value, wnhin a blue-green the Eagln loaelllllll Call Stave at 232-HELP I Dave. 8375, ask for Tom. 
JOB SEARCH SKILLS WORKSHOP;Mead notebook. Please call 3308 If 9818. DESPARATELY NEED TONIGHT 6:00 p.m.
lound. BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX 1 NAVY GA I need the following ttxa NAVY -2 *3754 KIM CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­
BC nx PLEASE CALL SCOTI X1640 HURRY HOME FOR OCT. BREAK! 
VICES OFFICE-LOWER LEVEL, HES­A. I AM INDEPENDENTLY WEAL THY NO ONE HERE FEEDS US BETWEEN BURGH LIBRARY. ALL ARE ENCOUR­
USC-USC-USC 2 GA'S NEEDED FOR B. I NEED ALABAMA GA's C. DO YOU MEALS OR LEAVES THEIR ELECTRIC 
AGED TO ATTEND.

MOM & DADI WILL PAY BIG BUCKS HECPII I NEED ONE STUD. OR GA TIX SEE POTENTIAL PROFIT D. WILL BLANKETS ON ALL DAY FOR US TO -FOR RENT CALL 272-5417, ASK FOR SL FOR THE NAVY GAME. I AM WILLING BEAT OTHER OFFERS CALL RICK SLEEP ONI TO PAY A LOT OF$$$$. CALL WILL 1817 SMEAG l SMUDGE 
INTERNATIONAL STU­
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER NEED USC TIX. CALL DOUG AT 234-X3119 DENTS .. .INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­6718. FAMILY WILL EXCOMMUNICATE ME JOB SEARCH SKILLS WORKSHOP;TALS 272-5959 NEED 2 GA'S TO NAVY,BC,OR BAMAI IF I DON'T GET NAVY TIXI HELP,! GIVE ME A BREAKI Or at least a ride TONIGHT 8:00 p.m.
NEED 4 TIX FOR USC GAME. CALL KATHY £3807 DON'T ST WANT TO BE AN ORPHAN! for one to Grand Rapids MI. Please call 
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­large house lor rant--7 bedrooms,2 COLLECT 3011448-2822 AFTER 5 PM. CALL JOHN x3684 NOWI Cecelia 2632. 
VICES OFFICE-LOWER LEVEL, HES­baths,2 refrigerators,washer and I NEED ONE TICKET (STUDENT OR BURGH LIBRARY. ALL ARE ENCOUR-dryer,off street parking. call dabble CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER GA) FOR THE BOSTON COLLEGE NEED 2 USC GA's. Big Bucks! Call HELPI I need a ride to Columbus, Ohio AGED TO ATTEND.
before 4pm. 288-6740. FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES 111111 GAME CALL CHRIS AT 1561. Salem 288-2032 or to Athens, Ohio tor October break. WILL PAY$$$$$. call Patti 284-5528-· ONE MUSKETEER NEEDS TICKETS Want lo lrade 4 BC tix for 4 Navy tlx. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MONIOUEI You're
********************************* FOR THE Call between noon and 10 pm. 234-5735. Bc-sc-sc-sc-sc-sc-sc-sc-sc-sc; 
the greatest\ God bless you. 

OTHER TWO TO THE USC GAME HELP-I need as many stud Hx as pos­GA OR STUDENT NEED 4 GA TIX FOR USC & BC. CALL sible. Please call Kathy 284·5531. 
WANTED ********************************* 
THOUGHT OF THE DAY

I really, really, really need 1 Alabama CALL DARTAGNAN (CHUCK) AT 2443 272-8282. SSSS$ A good date Ia like a good burp; al­NEED MONEY? Call PAT at 283-1201. ticket. NEED AIDE TO OKLAHOMA FOR OCT. 
ways a lot of FUNI (But ahort llvedl)I need GA's lor NAVY and Stu.Tix. for Student or GA will do. Call John at 283-Needed:Up to 4 USC GA's call284-5093 BREAK. WILL HELP WITH DRIVING -Q.B. l E.T.
USC, BC, and BAMA. $$$$$ 2445. 1 tic It:/ Ohare to Calli. Price negotiable. AND GAS. CALL BRAD AT 4133. FUN lor you Ill Call Rex 232-5118. Need 4 Navy GA's 
.~ .............................................................. ********************************* Call Debra 
THANK YOU, SAINT JUDEII EARN $4 PER HR. FLEXIBLE 1£$% 284-5479 RIDERS NEEDED

********************************* 

SCHEDULING, MEALS l EXCELLENT &*() Wanted: 2 GAa or STU a lor USC Going to Mllwauke&Sheboygan WI on 
Howard SYR "FUN" beglna alter pari•
WORK ENVIRONMENT ARE AVAIL· 271-11611 NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL Fri. Returning from Durham, NC Sun, tala ... II you give me your sourcaa, I'llABLE. CALL 2n-2882 FROM 10 AM l BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a JOHN AT 3064 Oct. 25. Call Paul 2193. ••••••••••••••• aaalat In your ra-rch...
8 PM FOR DETAILS. GIMME, GIMME, GIMME I'm a Satan worshipper who needs BC 
Big, Big cash offered tor BC GA's I'm tickets lor my boss. Seriously, though, NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY I WANT TO BUY A MACINTOSH COM­holding your family hostage call Kevin at 3164. Willing to trade a Navy NEEDED ONE GA OR STUDENT CALL TICKET NEEDED FOR BC GAMEl CALL PUTER. CALL 271-<)962 OR 284-5338 Please call Chris X 1489 ticket. DEAN 2080 ROB AT 234-7168 see PERSONALS, Page 6 
October 14, 1987 The Observer page 11 
Sports Wednesday 

AP Top 20 NL Playoffs Sports Lists 
AP Top Twenty 

NAIA Dlvlalon II Top 25 Tueaday'a Game The Top Twenly cell~ football teams In The The Top 25 teams In the Division II football poll of St. Louis 1, San Francisco 0 Auoclated Pres• poll, with llrat·place votes in paron· 
the National Aosoclatlon of Intercollegiate Athletics, Wedneaday'a Game
theses, thla aeaaon'a recorda and total points. Points with first-place votes In parentheses, recorda through 
San Francisco (Hammaker 10-10) at St.
baaed on 20-19·1 8·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents Oct. 11 and last week's ranklngs:
are Italicized. Louis (Magrane 9-7), 7:25 p.m. 
1. Oklahoma (47) 5·0-Q t,184 1. Dickinson State, 8·0·0 488 World Serlea 2. Nebraska (7) 5-().() 1,122 N.D.(14) 
Saturday, Oct. 17 
3. Miami (Fla.) {B) 4-Q·O 1,111 2. St. Ambrose, Iowa (5) 5·1-Q 457 
St. Louis or San Francisco at Minnesota, 7:30 
4. Florida State 5·t·O 935 3. Bethany, Kan. 4·0·0 429 
p.m.
5. Auburn 4-Q·t 934 4. Baker, Kan. 2·t·O 425 
8. Louisiana State 5·0·t 90t 5. Wisconsin-River Falls 4-t·O 399 
7. Clemson 5·0-Q 880 6. Pacific Lutheran, Wash. 3-t·O 383 Scoreboard 
B. Tennessee 4.()·1 752 7. Bluffton, Ohio 5-Q·O 350 
9. UCLA 4·1·0 713 8. Carroll, Mont. 3·1·0 347 Reaulta for Oct. 5 through Oct. 11 10 Penn State 5-1-o 606 9. Southwest Baptist. Miss. 5-1·0 298 
11. 
Notre Dame 3-1.() 544 10. Wlsconsln-l.aCrosse 3·2·0 267 Football 

12. 
Oklahoma State !5-0·0 439 11. Georgetown, Ky. 4·1·0 250 Pittsburgh over Notre Dame, 30·22 

13. 
Syracuae !5-().() 421 t2. Dana, Neb. 5·1·0 240 

14. 
Florida 4·2·0 398 13. Westminster, Pa. 3·1·0 239 


Volleyball
15. Arkansas 4·1·0 285 14. St. Francia, IU. 5·1·0 232 
Kentucky over Notre Dame, 9-15, 15·10, 15­
18 Oregon 4-1.() 229 15. Wisconsin-Stevens Point 4·2·0 209 
9, 11-15, 15-5
17. 
Ohio State 3·1·1 211 16. Wlaconsln-Eau Claire 4·1·0 191 

18. 
Georgia 4·2·0 209 17. Peru State, Neb. 5·1·0 188 Notre Dame over Northern Illinois, 15-5, 15-9, 

19. 
Michigan Stars 3·2.0 133 18. Tarleton State, Texas . 3:2·0 157 15-4 

20. 
Indiana 4·1·0 114 19. Southwestern, Kan. 4-t·O 132 Notre Dame over Minnesota, 16·14, 14-16, 


20. Sui Ross State, Texas 3·1·0 110 
15·8, 16-14 
Others receiving votea: Minnesota 79, Michigan 77, 21. Concordia, Neb. 4-1·0 94 
22. Saint Mary's over Chicago State, 15-7, 15-5 
Arizona State 73, Wake Forest 58, Pitt 48, Wash· Wilmington, Ohio 3·2·0 62 
National
lngton 41, Air Force 33, South Carolina 31, Alabama 23. Cumberiand, Ky. 4·1·0 73 College of Education over Saint 
Mary's 15-17, 15-13, 15-5
10, Kentucky 10, Baylor 9, Wyoming 4, Iowa 3, Bos-24. Missouri Valley 4·2·0 46 ton College 2. Texaa A&M t. 25. Taylor, Ind. 4·1·0 30 Saint Mary's over Cardinal Stritch, 1 5·5, 15-6 Saint Mary's over Lake Forest College, 15· 12, 15-11Sports Calendar Chicago State over Saint Mary's, 15-12, 15· 13 
Home games In CAPS 
Tuesday, Oct. 20 Soccer Volleyball at Texas A&M Men Today Notre Dame 2. Spartanburg 1 , OT No sports scheduled 
Notre Dame 4, Winthrop 1
Wednesday, Oct. 21 

Women 
Soccer Top 20

Field Hockey at Maryland Kalamazoo 1, Saint Mary's o
Thursday, Oct. 15 
Lewis 4, Saint Mary's 0 SMC Soccer at Siena Heights Soccer America Top 20
Thursday, Oct. 22 17. Old Dominion 8·2·0 10 
SMC Volleyball at Tri-State University Croas Country The Top 20 college teams In the Soccer America 18. Philadelphia Textile 8·2·1 14Volleyball at Nebraska Women Magazine poll compiled by its editorial staff, with 7·3-Q
19. Southern Methodist Soccer at Portland, Ore. Ball State 15, Notre Dame 48 this season's records and alternate rankings In the 20. Fresno State 8·3·1
Friday, Oct. 16 Intercollegiate Soccer Aosoclatlon of America coaches' poll. Notre Dame opponents are italicized.
Men's cross country at Indiana lnter­Field Hockey
Friday, Oct. 23 

colleglates (West Lafayette) Women's Central Michigan 2, Notre Dame 0
No sports scheduled 
Gnaat Lakea Region Top 10

cross country at Indiana lntercolleglates Notre Dame 5, Goshen 0 
The Top 1 0 college soccer teams In the Great Lakes 14·0·0 1

(West Lafayette) SMC Tennis at State 1. Virginia 
region as determined by a poll of coaches, with this Championships 3 season's records and total points. Notre Dame op· 
Tennla 2. Indiana 12-2-Q 
3. Duke 10·2·0 2 4. South Carolina 10-1-2 5 

Women 
ponents are Italicized.

Notre Dame 46, Northern illinois 36, Mar·
Saturday, Oct. 24 5. 
Harvard 5·0·2

quette 35, Dayton 13.5, DePaul 13.5, Val· 6 
Football vs. USC 6. North Carolina 10·2·0 18
Saturday, Oct. 17 paraiso 5 
7. Notre Dame 13.0.1 15 1. Indiana 12·2-Q 49
Volleyball vs. WISCONSIN 
Illinois-Chicago 5, Saint Mary's 4 8. Clemson 2. Notre Dame 13-o-1 Field Hockey vs. CALVIN Saint Mary's 7, St. Francis 2 9. San Francisco 10·2·1 4 3. Evansville 10-4·0 43 
Football at Air Force 10·2·0 9 43 
Volleyball at Texas Soccer .at DePaul 
Men's Cross Co.untry vs. USC 10. Columbia 6·1-1 7 4. Bowling Green 10·2-<1 35
Field Hockey at American 11. Stanford 5. Akron
7-4·2 6·3·2 30 Men's Tennis at Wake Forest Invita­12. Evansville 10-4·0 6. Wisconsin-Green Bay 23 
SMC Soccer vs. WHEATON lnterhall Soccer 11 11-4-0 
13. William & Mary 10-1-1 17 7. Wisconsin 10·5-0 21
tional North American Dlvlalon
Sunday, Oct. 25 w L Pet. GB 14. North Carolina State 8·3·0 8. Wright State 9·2·2 15
SMC Tennis at State Championships 15. 8·3·2 9. 12
Connecticut 13 Ohio Slate 9·3·1Flanner F.C. 1
No sports scheduled 4 .800 16. Seton Hall 7·2·2 6 10. Western Kentucky 10·2·2 5
Sorln 4 1 .800 Sunday, Oct. 18 Fisher 3 1 .750 .5 Monday, Oct. 26 Keenan White 2 3 .400 2
Field Hockey at Catholic 4 NHL .
Morrissey B 1 .200 3 SMC Tennis at State Championships No sports scheduled Cavanaugh 0 4 .0 3.5 Weatern Europun Dlvlalon 
WALES CONFERENCE

Pangborn 1 Calgary 2 0 8 9 2
Tuesday, Oct. 27 3 .750
Monday, Oct. 19 Stanford 3 1 .750 Adema Dlvlalon Los Angeles 2 0 7 15 2 w L T GF GA Pta. Vancouver
Volleyball at Baylor SMC Soccer vs. MICHIGAN STATE Zahm 3 1 .750 t 2 0 11 12 2 
2 3 1.5 Quebec 3 0 0 16 8 6 Norrla Dlvlalon
Field Hockey at Georgetown SMC Volleyball at Manchester Sf. Ed's .400 
Boston 2 1 0 14 11 4 Buffalo 1 1 1 11 13 3 Toronto Keenan Blue 1 3 .250 2 
Alumni 1 4 .200 2.5 2 0 0 12 17 4 European Dlvlalon 
Montreal 1 1 t 10 10 3 Detroit 2 1 0 8 8 4 
Hartford 0 3 0 5 16 0 Chicago 0 16
lnterhall Football Holy Cross A 6 0 1.000 1 2 14 2 
Flenner B 3 2 .600 2.5 Minnesota 0 2 1 8 11 t Wedneaday's Games Dillon 2 1 .667 2.5 0
St. Louis 0 2 0 4 12 
Carroll vs. Fisher O.C. Splelphs 2 3 .400 3.5 Patrick Dlvlalon Rockne Dlvlalon 
MEN'S CONFERENCE 

Pangborn vs. Sorln Carroll 1 3 .250 4 W L TPet. PF PA Alumni vs. Cavanaugh Garabaldl 1 3 .250 4 N.Y. Rangers 2 0 ·1 14 8 5 Fisher 2 0 1 .833 38 7 
Dillon vs. Flanner Grace A2 1 4 .200 4.5 N.Y. Islanders 2 0 0 11 2 4 Mond•y'a Reaulta 
2 0 1 .833 66 13 Thuraday'a Gamea South American Dlvlelon Philadelphia 1 1 1 10 11 3 Quebec 5, Montreal 2Pangborn Holy Cross vs. Zahm O.C. Hoobers 6 0 1.000 New Jersey t , 0 8 8 2 N.Y. Rangers 4, Minnesota 2
Sorin 2 1 0 .667 28 8 Carroll 1 2 0 .333 6 55 
Grace vs. Morrissey Morrissey 5 1 .833 1 Washington 1 2 0 14 14 2 Wlnnepeg 3, Calgary 2 St. Ed's 0 4 0 .000 0 6 Keenan vs. Off-Campus Grace A 3 2 .800 2.5 Pittsburgh 0 1 1 7 10 1 Detroit 3, Vancouver 2 LHhy Dlvlalon 
Law School 3 2 .800 2.5 Dillon Big Red 2 4 .333 4 
Tllllday'a Rlaull

Stanford 4 0 01.000 102 6 WOMEN'S CONFERENCE Zahm B 1 5 .167 5 Pittsburgh 8, Buffalo 3 
Alumni 2 1 0 .667 42 21 w L T Pet. PF PA Holy Cross B 0 6 .0 6 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Wednelday'a GameaCavanaugh 0 1 2 .333 0 20 Breen· Phillips 6 1 0 .857 126 78 Smythe Dlvlelon Hartford at New Jeraey
1 .167 0 61 Pasquerllla Was 5 1 0 .833 100 48 Leal Wedneedey'a Rhulla2
Holy Croaa 0 w L T OF GA Pta Toronto at Minnesota 
Zahm 0 2 1 .167 0 Farley 5 2 0 .714 102 Flanner F.C. 1, Fisher 0
36 36 Winnipeg 2 0 0 8 3 4 St. Louis at ChicagoParughlen Dlvlalon Lyons 5 2 0 .714 93 22 St. Ed's 1, Alumni 0 Edmonton 1 1 0 10 6 2 Calgary at EdmontonLewis 3 3 0 .500 58 48 Zahm·A 2, Keenan Blue 0 
Dillon 0 01.000 55 8 Pasquerllla East 2 3 0 .400 60 46 Laal Thurldey'a Reaulla Flenner 1 2 .500 38 20 Walsh 1 5 0 .167 26 1t6 Keenan White 7, Morrlssey·B 0 Morrissey t 2 .500 14 13 Badin 1 6 0 .143 6 105 Sorln 2, Cavanaugh 0 
Grace 1 2 t .375 13 34 Howard 6 0 .143 20 98 Sunday'• Reaulta 
Off-Campus 0 1 3 .375 12 33 Grace-A 4, Dillon Big Red 0 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Denver 2 1 1 .625 97 88 Keenan 1 3 0 .250 15 37 Eeat 2 2 0 .500 94 91
O.C. Hoobers 1, Morrissey-A 0 Seattle w L T Pet. PF PA
Laat Thurlday'a Reaulls Law School 8, Holy Cross·B 0 Kansas City 1 3 0 .250 51 133 Lewis B. Badin 0 Zahm·A 2, Alumni 1 
Dallas 3 1 0 .750 108 84 Breen-Phllllps 20, Howard 6 Grace·A2 4, Flanner-B 1 Washington 3 1 0 .750 120 78 O.C. Splelphs 2, Carroll 1 
St. Louis 2 2 0 .500 93 88 Sunday'• Reaulta Holy Cross-A forfeit over Garabaidl's Philadelphia 1 3 0 .250 76 127 Sundey'a Ruult. Monday'• Reeulta St. Louis 24, New Orleans 19
Sunday'a Reaulta Badin 6, Howard 0 (30T) NY Giants 0 4 0 .000 66 129 Sorin 6. St. Ed's 0 Breen-Phllllps 24, Farley 22 Morrlssey-B 2, Cavanaugh t Cantril Dallas 41 , Philadelphia 22 Pangborn 33, Carroll 0 Lewis 32, Walsh 6 Flenner F.C. 1, Keenan White 0 Chicago 4 0 01.000 116 32 Chicago 27, Minnesota 7 
Stanford 20, Zahm 0 Pasquerllla West 6, Lyons 0 Fisher 1 , Sorln 0 Minnesota 2 2 0 .500 78 85 
San Diego 17, Tampa Bay 13 Pangborn 3, St. Ed's 2 Detroit 19, Green Bay 16, OT
Alumni 20, Holy Cr~ 0 Tampa bay 2 2 0 .500 95 74 Morrissey 8, Keenan 0 Tueaday'a Reaulla Dillon Big Red 1 , Zahm,B 0 Green Bay 1 2 1 .375 58 72 New England 14, Buttalo 7 
Houston 15, Cleveland 10
Dillon 10, Grace 0 Farley 24, Badin 0 Tueldey'a Reaulla Cetroit 1 3 0 .250 72 108 
O.C. Hoobers 2, Grace-A 0 Indianapolis 6, New York Jets 0
Off-Campus 6, Flenner 6 Howard 14, Walsh 0 Weal Morrissey-A 2, Law School 0 Miami 42, Kansas City 0 
San Francisco 3 1 0 .750 110 94 New Orieans 2 2 0 .500 101 82 Washington 38, New York Giants 12 

Cincinnati 17, Seattle 10 San Francisco 25, AtlantaAtlanta 1 3 0 .250 60 121 
17 Los Angelea Rams 31, Pittsburgh 21 Mondey'e RHUH PLAYER Cilo KILLS-AVO 1[ ("A.· .~T ...._4~T AVG ACES AVG DIGS AVG BS AVG Denver 30, Los Angeles Raiders 14 
Zanette Bennett 73 275 3.n 69 599 .344 9 " .. v.'\.32 28 0.38 185 2.53 34 86 1.37 AMERICAN CONFERENCE Kathy Cunningham 69 237 3.43 90 595 .247 8 0.1~-a. 0.32 217 3.14 3 ':fi 0.49 !:::st 
L.A. Rams 1 3 0 .250 73 99 
Sundly'a GilliN
# W L T Pet. PF PA

Maureen Shea 74 234 3.16 66 556 .301 40 0.54 17 ~~ --:~ 2.14 13 72 1.15 lndla,;p&~ffftburgh
-.. lll1ti,!lj)iilrr-~ 2 0 -~
_2 '114 """"!12~

Mary Kay Waller 40 124 3.10 35 272 .327 3 0.08 6 0.15 6 -"i]3-~,!. ~"".2b­
Seattle at Detroit "" Colleen Wagner 26 50 1.92 34 143 .112 0 0.00 8 0.31 57 2.19 1 9 0.38 
Miami ~ 2 u· ~500 106 62 Miami at N.Y. JetsNew England 2 0 .500 76 91 New England at Houston

N.Y. Jets 2 2 0 .500 98 96

Kathy Baker 47 87 1.85 30 236 .242 7 0.15 8 0.17 108 2.30 1 25 0.56 
Cleveland at Cincinnati
Buffalo 1 3 0 .250 75 122

Whitney Shewman 21 30 1.43 10 106 .189 0 0.00 4 0.19 57 2.71 2 3 0.24 
Philadelphia at Green Bay Rachel Hall 16 17 1.06 13 45 .089 1 0.06 2 0.13 17 1.06 6 12 1.13 
New Orieans at Chicago Minnesota at Tampa Bay 
Gretchen Kraus 26 25 0.96 13 78 .154 2 0.08 5 0.19 32 1.23 3 19 0.85 
L.A. Rama at AtlantaCentral
Taryn Collins 65 44 0.68 12 144 .222 775 11.92 19 0.29 214 3.29 6 41 0.72 
N.Y. Giants at Buffalo Kathleen Mann 15 8 0.53 2 24 .250 116 7.73 1 0.07 t5 1.00 1 3 0.27 
Houston 3 1 0 .750 105 70 

San Diego at L.A. Raiders Cleveland 2 0 63 Denver at Kan88a City Cincinnati 2 2 0 .500 75 66 
2 .500 85 Pittsburgh 2 2 0 .500 89 

Amy White 27 8 0.30 9 48 -.021 17 0.63 3 0.11 43 1.59 3 9 0.44 
St. Louis at San Franclaco
94 WHI 

Jill Sugllch 37 0 o.oo 2 6 ·.333 2 0.05 7 0.19 60 1.62 0 0 0.00 
NOTRE DAME 75 1139 15.19 385 2854 .284 980 13.07 130 1.73 1224 16.32 90 361 3.61 
L.A. Raiders 3 1 0 .750 98 54 Moncley'a Geme OPPONENTS 75 1054 14.05 479 3073 .187 899 11.99 124 1.65 1315 17.53 57 215 2.19 
San Diego 3 1 0 .750 66 66 Wasfllngton at Dallaa 







I
I page 12 
I 
I ~ McGlinn gets hat trick;
' 
Irish shutout Goshen 
By KATIE CRONIN Sports Writer 
Annie McGlinn's hat trick led the Irish field hockey team's destruction of Goshen 5-0 Tues­day. 
Coming off their worst game of the season against Central Michigan, the Irish enjoyed a thorough victory over Goshen. Playing more aggressively, Notre Dame dominated the game, taking 35 shots on the opposition's goal and getting 10 penalty corners. 
"We were the more talented team," said Coach Jill Linden­feld. "But I was pleased that we were making the most of every scoring opportunity. All thirty-five were good shots on goal. We made their goalie play the ball." 
At the beginning of tht: game, play hovered at midfield. Gos­hen's early and only offensive threat of the game earned th~m a penalty corner down in the Irish circle, but it was the beginning of the end as Caroline Berezny knocked the ball out of the circle before Gos­hen could even take a shot on goal. 
Notre Dame pressured Gos­hen for the rest of the game. It sent a Goshen free hit from the top of the circle right back in, setting up the first of McGlinn's goals with an assist from right inner Mary Wagner at 11:14 in the first half. There was no let­ting up as McGlinn scored an unassisted goal at 14:16, and a few minutes later Debbie Char­lesworth put the ball in the cage with an assist from Wagner for the third Irish goal. 
The second half was more of the same. McGlinn completed her hat trick at 2:30 scoring on an assist from Mindy Breen. On the next penalty corner taken, the Irish put the ball in the cage again, only to have the goal called back because the ball wasn't stopped dead off the cor­ner before the hit was taken. Another goal scored by Breen was also called back. Benet DeBerry scored the fifth and last Irish goal at 15: 46. 
"We played with an attitude to win. We worked on that this past week -that and shooting on goal," said Lindenfeld. Pleased with the team's perfor-
Flutie goes to Patriots 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -The New England Patriots acquired quarterback Doug Flutie, who won the Heis­man Trophy while playing at Boston College, from the Chicago Bears Tuesday for an undisclosed draft choice. 
Flutie is expected to play for the Patriots in Sunday's NFL game against the Oilers in Houston, New England spokes­man Jim Greenidge said. 
"We're trying to do every­
thing we can to w_!n_ !uW.mrtn"'t 
circu~J.:mrct!s;'' · Patriots 
-coach Raymond Berry said. 
"We need to improve our quar­
terback play." 

He added that the Patriots, who have three quarterbacks on their active roster, will keep four after the NFL players' strike ends. 
mance, Lindenfeld cited DeBerry and Charlesworth for excellent play. 
"Senior Annie McGlinn played the best game she's ever played. She did well in every aspect of the game: defensively blocking shots, tackling back, anticipating where play was going and of­fensively passing, shooting, scoring, and playing to her op­ponents' weaknesses," said Lindenfeld. 
"It was the result of a lot of frustration and teamwork com­ing together," said McGlinn. "We had such a poor game last week and Jill had hard prac­tices this week, but the im­provement of specific skills showed in everyone's play today. We were passing well onto each others' sticks. I got great passes from Benet." 
"It'll be nice going to D.C. with the momentum of a win behind us; hopefully we'll play this strong against the East Coast teams," said McGlinn. 
The Irish leave Friday for a fall break trip to Washington 
D.C. They'll. play American University on Saturday, Cath­olic on Sunday, Georgetown on Monday, and University of Maryland-Baltimore County on Wednesday. All are Division I except for Catholic which is Division III. 
"The East Coast has strong hockey. Every game will be competitive, but we are going on an upbeat note. They have the feeling of what it takes to score goals -you have to make the most of good and lousy op­portunities," said Lindenfeld. 
"I anticipate we can keep playing with this enthusiasm and vigor. That's what it takes to win," Lindenfeld said looking at the rest of the season. 
The Irish return home at the end of break for their last home game, facing off against Calvin October 24 before the USC game. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
~::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::::::::::~..::~:;::~~---=-~--~-~..--~---~--~---.~~ 
TERRIFIC VALUE 
'l.

~~-=~E---~----~--===~~----..'---~-~~~~->~ ·~ cgk? 
_. -_ 

"'-·--­
-lfttrr1..~~ki~F--Ma5t Beef Sub and receive
·-.../ 

an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge. MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Wednesday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion 
Notre Dame's rocket to the top was halted as the Irish dropped out of the Top Ten in this week's Associated Press college football poll. Rated fourth . last week, the Irish dropped to number eleven in the current poll. 
Oklahoma remained No.1 in the poll after defeating Texas 44-9. The Sooners, seeking to become the first team to hold the top spot from preseason through postseason, received 47 of 60 first-place votes and 1,184" of a possible 1,200 points from the AP's nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Nebraska crushed Kansas 54-2 and received seven first­place ballots and 1,122 points. The other six first-place votes 
went  to  Miami,  which  beat  
Maryland  46-16  and  earned  
1,111 points.  


GA'S lots (8) 
Need USC GA'S 
Call MIKE LANIGAN (800) 621-2516 (312) 943-7846 after 5' 
join us for "BEEF~~~E....Qi1fESDAY'' 
hammered Southern Missis-proved from lOth place to sippi 61-10 to go from sixth ~ighth wit~ 752 points, while place back to fourth with 935 Idle :tJCLA .Improved .from 11~h points. Auburn remained No.5 to mnth with 713 pomts. Ohw with 934 points following a 48-15 Sta~e, No. 9 last week, lost to decision over Vanderbilt. Indiana 31-10 and dropped to 
LSU went from seventh to No. 17. 
sixth with 901 points by defeat-The Second Ten is Notre ing Georgia 26-23, while Clem-Dame, Oklahoma State, son moved up from eighth to Syracuse, Florida, Arkansas, 
seventh with 880 points after Oregon, Ohio State, Georgia, beating Virginia 38-21. Michigan State and Indiana. 
Happy 20th Birthday 
(six days early) 
Janice 
Can things get any better than they are now? 
Love, 

Mom and Dad, Lisa, Elizabeth, Maureen, Lynn, Steve, Kevin, and Pete. 

Wednesday, October 14, 1987 The Observer page 13 

r-----------­
Sports Briefs 
The deadlines for co-ree basketball, water polo, Tryouts for the varsity men's basketball team will be singles racquetball and singles and doubles badminton are held tomorrow in the JACC Auxiliary Gymnasium at 7:30 today. Sign up in the NVA office. -The Observer p.m. -The Observer 
The ski team will hold an organizational meeting The Scrubs of Volleyball won the Sophomore Class tonight in the library auditorium at 7 p.m. It is mandatory Volleyball tournament Saturday by beating Cheesewhiz for anyone interested and those who signed up for the in the finals, 15-11, 15-9. -The Observer Christmas Break trip. Any questions, call Christopher (234-6718), J.P. (271-9082), Maureen (271-0564), or Laurie Off-campus is looking for people interested in (2656). -The Observer playing interhall volleyball. Call Dan Schlehuber at 271­
0480 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
Mike Flynn placed second in the men's 156-pound division at the Yorktown Annual Invitational Judo Tourn­The swim team will hold its Blue vs. Gold Inner ament Saturday. -The Observer Squad Meet tomorrow from 4-6:30 p.m. -The Observer 
will be followed to the playoffs we think we can keep it up." "We like our chances in the by Alumni, barring an upset The beat goes on for· Stan­playoffs," said Martin, "but
Offense 
win by Cavanaugh. The ford, which now has three those teams in the big league 
continued from page 16 
Cavemen must do more than weeks off before entering the are just so physical. We aren't 
Dave Cane was the offensive just beat the Dogs; they have playoffs. This week's victim used to that type of game." star for Flanner. The fleet run­to win by more than 41 points. was Zahm, which fell 20-0. The Rockne Division has two ning back accounted for Flan­Possible? Yes. Probable ... ? powerful teams-Pangborn and ner's only score and was an of­Sophomore Steve Ellis broke Stanford scored three first Fisher. Should they both win fensive force throughout the an 80-yard touchdown run in half touchdowns, and that was their remaining games, they game. the first quarter for Morris­enough. Senior Jack Gleason will make the playoffs. Sorin is 
sey's only score. opened the scoring with an B­still in the hunt. The Screamin' 
Morrissey set itself up for the yard run. Player-coach AI Mar­Otters are guaranteed a spot if playoff bid with a solid effort "I think," said Morrissey tin fired a 40-yard strike to John they defeat Pangborn. against Keenan, winning 8-0. coach Greg Golonka, "that Sheehan for the next score, fol­In other games, Alumni shut 
The Leahy Division playoff we've established ourselves for lowed immediately by another out Holy Cross, 20-0, Pangborn picture is less complicated. Un­the playoffs. Our offense TD pass, this time 15-yards to clobbered Carroll, 33-0, and defeated Stanford is in. They worked against Keenan, and Dan Boyle. Sorin edged St. Ed's, 6-0. 
NowitSe-~ 
Sometimes it seems that seniors and grad students get a lot of special treatment. Like getting the American Express® Card pretty much hassle-free. Sure, they've proven themselves. But you have too, or you wouldn't be reading this today. So we're making some changes. Starting now, we're making it easier than ever for you to become a Cardmember through our llm!ergraduate Automatic Approval Offer. 
'l11e requirements are as simple as they get: just be enrolled ndl time in a four-year college ami have some form of income-be it from a job, a grant, or from your folks. You don't even need a credit history, but if vou have one, it must be cle~u1. 
Ilow's that for hassle­free! Of course, once you have the American Express Card, it gets even better. You can use it to buy everything from sweats to ster­eos, everywhere from campus to Cam­eroon. And those are just the basics. As a Cardmember, you'll be entitled to a world of benefits you can rely on. 
So look into our new automatic approval offer. Calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application. Or just pick up an application on campus and study it. You'll find you're bound to pass. 

C1987 Amrnc~n E:\press Travel Relctted Services C:omp:ul\'.111~. 

Irish runners lose to B.G. 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
It's not often that a coach goes into a meet without at least hoping for a victory, but that's exactly what women's cross country coach Dan Ryan did Saturday at Ball State. 
Ryan chose to rest his top five for the upcoming Indiana Intercollegiates and give his younger runners a chance to perform in the only dual meet of the season for the harriers. The result was a 15-48 loss to the Cardinals, who finished fourth in last week's Notre Dame Invitational. 
For Ryan, though, the meet } .. was a success. The perfor­mances of the younger runners pleased him and gave him an optimistic outlook for the fu­ture. 
"I anticipated the result, and I liked what I saw," he said. "It's good to see them making the transition because some­times it's hard to go from high school to college. It was good experience for them to run against a top-flight team. Ball State didn't rest anybody, and we were right with them." 
Ryan said the rest was vital for his top five runners, who were coming off the National Catholic Championships and the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Awards 
continued from page 16 
the major leagues in won-lost record (20-9), complete games (18), shutouts (7), and finish fourth in earned run average 
(2.97) to make a strong bid for a second consecutive A.L. Cy Young Award. 
Cal Ripken, both of them, 
receive the All In The Family 
award. Cal Sr., the manager, 
ended the consecutive-innings­
played record of Cal Jr., the 
player, by sending in a pinch 
hitter after the Oriole shortstop 
played 8,243 frames in a row. 
That's over 900 complete 
games to you and me. 
Paul Molitor wins the Most 
Impressive Streak award with 
his 39-game hitting streak. He 
edges his entire Milwaukee 
Brewer team for this honor. 
The Brew Crew's 13-straight 
wins to open the season were 
impressive but nearly nullified 
by their 12 losses in a row in 
May. The bat giveth, the bat 
taketh away. 
The Remember Tony Con­igliaro lump of coal goes to pitchers who think they need to throw at batters to retain their 'turf.' Conigliaro, the youngest player ever to hit 100 career home runs at the age of 22, was cut down by a beanball to the face in 1968 while playing for the Red Sox and was never the same. Too many hit-by-pitches and brawls occurred this sum­mer, and the beanball is endan­gering the lives of batters. 
And no list of baseball ac­colades would be complete without a mention of Reggie Jackson, who retired last week with 563 home runs. Only four men have ever hit more, but maybe no one has ever hit as many dramatic taters as Reggie. His three home runs in three swings in the 1977 World Series nears immortality, and he will forever be remembered as Mr. October when the Fall Classic rolls around. 
• 

-----~-----------------­
Wednesday, October 14, 1987

page 14 The Observer 
Cardinals shut out Giants to force seventh game 
Associated Press eighth and struck out Will left fielder Jeffrey Leonard. one mistake, and it was right hits in Game 2, dueled for most 
Clark leading off the ninth. The game was stopped twice fielder Candy Maldonado's slip of the cool, clear night. Tudor, ST. LOUIS -John Tudor, When pinch-hitter Harry Spil­while umpires and security of­on a line drive by Tony Pena frequently in trouble but never
Todd Worrell and Ken Dayley man was announced, Cardinals ficials sought to find those tor­leading off the second that cost caught, struck out six and
shut down the San Francisco Manager Whitey Herzog menting Leonard, who made them the game. Maldonado threw 118 pitches.
Giants on six hits Tuesday brought in left-bander Ken derogatory remarks about St. sunk to his knees, having pos­Dravecky may have been
night and a fluke triple in the Dayley and put Worrell in right Louis fans last week. 
sibly lost the ball in the lights, even better, allowing only five 
second inning set up the only field. Standout defensive plays by 
and it sailed over his head for hits. He struck out a season­run as the St. Louis Cardinals Dayley struck out pinch­center fielder Willie McGee a triple. Jose Oquendo followed high eight and walked none.
held on for a 1-0 victory, forcing hitter Chris Speier and got Jose and third baseman Terry with a fly ball to Maldonado in Game 7, the first time the NLthe National League playoffs to Uribe on a grounder as the Car­
Pendleton frustrated the medium right, and Pena ran playoffs have gone the limit, 
a decisive seventh game. dinals avoided elimination. Giants, thwarting their first around catcher Bob Melvin's will be Wednesday night.
Tudor worked around six hits A noisy crowd of 55,331 also trip to the World Series since 
tag to score. Danny Cox, the loser in Gameand two walks in 7 1-3 innings. got into the action, throwing a 1962. 
Tudor and Dave Dravecky, 4 for St. Louis, will oppose Atlee Worrell came on to finish the cowbell and a drink at Giants The Giants' defense made who shut out St. Louis on two Hammaker, 
BP tops rival Farley in women's interhall action 
By JEFF HEILERT however, was stopped short on Badin broke a three-year losing time. PW ran its winning streak to Sports Writer the ensuing conversion at­streak by beating Howard, 6-0 Lewis won its second con­five by shutting out Lyons 8-0. ·-< tempt, which ended up being in three overtimes. secutive game by pounding PW moved to within a half­
Rivalries tend to bring out the difference in the game. "It's too bad they had to Walsh 32-6. By winning, Lewis game of first at 5-1, while Lyons 
the best in teams, and last Sun­"The key tonight was inten­create a new dorm, however, (3-3) stayed in contention for a fell into a tie with Farley at 5-2. day's women's interhall foot­sity," said BP coach Dan for us to break our losing playoff spot. Women's Interhall action ball contest between Breen­Deboer. "We were a little flat streak," joked Marie Colreary, 
Sunday's nightcap paired resumes after break, with a 
Phillips and Farley was no last Thursday against Howard, who caught the winning touch­Pasquerilla West and Lyons, week and a half of regularexception. but we worked hard in practice, down pass in the third over-two probable playoff teams. season action remaining.In one of the best played and it showed. Everyone is games of the season, BP locked healthy, and I think that was Flanner F.C., which moved 
the ·matchup between 

up at least a tie for first place also very important. I knew we into first with a 1-0 shutout of
Soccer 
Pangborn and Zahm A for the

with an exciting 24-22 win. would be ready to play continued from page 16 Keenan White, for the division championship of the WesternThe victory gave BP a half tonight." title. 
European Division. Pangborngame lead over Pasqerilla Both teams were consis­team, also 3-1, stayed close Holy Cross A dominated the beat St. Ed's, 3-2, Monday in aWest, with only Badin (1-5) tently able to move the ball with an 8-0 rout of winless Holy European Division this year, penalty-kick shootout to stay

remaining on its schedule. throughout the game. BP Cross B. breezing to a 6-0 record. They alive in the playoff race, whileIn action last night, Farley utilized the height of wide In the North American Divi­finished Sunday with a forfeit Zahm edged Alumni, 2-1, toused two touchdown catches by receiver Ann Curoe to com­sion, Sorin had a chance to win win over Garabaldi's Men. In move into a first-place tie with Kara England and a total of six plete passes over the shorter outright but was upset Monday other games, the O.C. Spleighs 
Pangborn and idle Stanfordinterceptions to post a 24-0 vic­Farley secondary. Two impor­by Fisher, 1-0. With that vic­beat Carroll, 2-1, and Grace A2 and set up the final games to tory over Badin. In the second tant touchdown conversions tory, Fisher moved to 3-1 and beat Flanner, 4-1, in a shootout. 

determine a winner.

game, Howard moved from the were scored-when Curoe out­has a chance to tie Sorin and Finally. the is set for 
ranks of the winless by beating jumped the Farley defense. 
Walsh 14-0. Farley used a solid passing 
On Sunday night, Carolyn attack and the running ability Burke led BP by scoring all of Elliott to overcome a strong three touchdowns, including a BP defense. Often scrambling 27-yard scamper down the left to both sides of the field, Elliott sideline to give BP an early 8-0 teamed up with McGuilliss for lead. all three Farley scores. 
, 
Farley bounced back on its Farley falls to 5-2 and is tied ' first possession when quarter­for third with Lyons, but both 
I ~ back Carol Elliott hit Colleen still look to be in good position McGuilliss with a 37-yard to make the playoffs. touchdown strike. Elliott, In other action last Sunday,
, ~ 
,
, IllALUMNI 
SENIOR 
! , , &!:CLUB ~ ~ !wEDNESDAY I 
•~ 
f 
,~ !, '
' 
' 
' 
DRAFT 50 CENTS WHISKEY SOURS 75 CENTS 
"BACCHUS COMEDY NITE" LAFFS BEGIN AT 10:00 PM 
' ~THURSDAY IS... ~ 
I ~~bHi~:,;.:~:: $~1GHTI 
~, STRAWBE~~~E~~~QUIRIS I 
PLUS...DRAWING FOR JAMAICA rrRIPTICKET REBATE!!! 
• 

Wednesday, October 14, 1987 The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
12:10 p.m. -1 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
3 p.m.: Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture "Institutional Authority in Public and Private Schools," by Dean Bruce Hafen, Brigham Young University, Room 110 Law School. 
3 p.m.-5 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Advanced Microsoft Word 3.01, limit 12, to register, call Betty 239-5604, Room 115 Computing Center. 
4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Spectroscopy of Localized and Collective Ex­citations in Novel Semiconductors and Heterostructures," by Prof. Anant Ramdas, Purdue University, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m.: Faculty Conversations on Connections; Historical View of the Development of Science and Technology, students welcome, free, Sponosors, Sigma Xi, the Program in Science, Technology and Values, and Saint Mary's College, Room 118 Niewland Science Hall. 
7:30 p.m.: Meeting of the Faculty Senate, Room 202 Center for Continuing Education. 
7:30p.m.: Friends of the Snite Museum "What is Art?" lecture, "Birth of the Avant-Garde: 19th Century French Painting," by Bille Wickre, Ph.D. candidate of the University of Michigan, Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 p.m.: SMC English Department Lecture, "Parish Streets: Growing up Cath­olic, Female, and Midwestern," a reading by Patricia Hampl, Little Theatre. 10 p.m. -11 p.m.: Campus Perspectives talkshow on foreign study programs, call in questions at 239-6400, host Lynsey Strand, WVFI-AM 6400. 10 p.m.: Comedy Nite, part of Alcohol Awareness week, Senior Bar. 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Devonshire Sandwich French Dip Sandwich 
BBQ Chicken with au Jus 
Broccoli Cheese Stuffed Fish with Creole 
Casserole Sauce 
Seafood Cantonese Spinach Crepes with 
1lllth5 AREN'T mt St/M€... I WIWT MY IX' 
ft.OWCI?EP omJMAN 
~-­
" 
Beernuts 
Cheese Sauce Deli Bar 
1JIIN&S IIKBV'T 


I /?CWT 11flllfl Wfl..t.. •. 
CXI/CTlY fl5 /HeY WYfe 
&/li?Y HllltT 
BCFOI?(;/ AN't ~

I N€W CCJNTfN(JffY /lNNtJUI/C.€5 IN MY t./~•. 
Cfli/!1/CY / IINP I MAY vVIT 
f/N6~CTEP Clf1JN6C5 
I 
.f
6!7N/K/5(,{)(/5.(/ 
\ 

Mark Williams 
ARE WE (;[}IN& mSTAY THE 511!'1£ AGE FOREVER
~~;[11,',1 1 1 
UJ<£ OTH[R CAKTOON
WIIAT.I
II, I, _:--'-----.... 
CHAKALTERS Of. AR[ WE
-...._____... 
(J)!Nfr TO GR..Ol-J OL/) /)J[ UK[ 
I 

Cat showers 
ACROSS 1 Poker term 5 Validate 
10 Garden dweller 1--+---+--+-­14 Author Uris 15 Regath man 16 Story 17 Set down 18 Kind of house 19 Earth products 20 Very happy 23 Pub order 24 Handy abbr. 25 Official group 28 Half of MIV 31 Jezebel's mate 34 Speech 
Interruptions 35 Come forth 38 Woodwind 40 Like -a 

baby (easy) 43 Br. gun 44 Emu e.g. 45 Verb ending 46 Gaelic 48 Affirmative 49 Ramblers © 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/14/87 ­51 "Grand ­
All Rights Reserved 
Opry" 53 Alphabet run 11 Mend 54 Easy as -12 Fish sauce 62 Century plant 13 Fit together 63 Lhasa's land nicely 64 Above 21 Mayflower 66 Celebrity name 67 Upper crust 22 Sch. org. 68 Dollar part 25 Gambles 69 Furnished 26 Use a 70 Appraiser soapbox 71 Kind of cap 27 One who 
questions 
DOWN 28 Rot 1 Everything 29 Enraged 2 A tide 30 -fatuus 3 Work hard 32 Dugout 4 Make beloved shelters 5 Commonplace 33 Liquor 

language 36 Top man: 10114187 6 Cowboy's abbr. 50 "A ten -56 Diving bird 
need 37 Time letters scholar" 57 -monster 7 Was In debt 39 Language 52 Come In 58 Sad notice 8 Film's Miles elements: 53 Following 59 Entertain 9 Obliterate suff. 54 Season royally 
10 George 41 Sassy 55 "And leads 60 Kiln Segal's "­42 -Buena you to believe 61 A Kelly Class" 47 Yale man -" (Blake) 65 Hwy. 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

Wednesday & Thursday 
7:00, 9:30, 12:00 Engineering Auditorium 

--~ .. ~~------~~----------~~----·~ ----~~-------------....,
---~---~-~----­
page 16 

Sports 
Wednesday, October 14, 1987 

Hoobers set sights on interhall title 

A Pangborn defender attempts to block an op­ponent's punt. Men's lnterhall action continues 
Dillon overcomes adversity 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Facing adversity and then overcoming it. 
That could be the sign of a good man or a good problem­solver, but in the case of Dillon Hall, it is a sign of a good foot­ball team. 
The undefeated Big Red en­tered Sunday's men's interhall football game against Grace facing many difficulties. When the dust had settled Dillon had claimed the regular season championship with a 10-0 vic­tory. 
Dillon's defense (which has allowed only eight points in four games) and offense were severely damaged by injuries, and it was faced with a solid, upset-minded Grace team. An added problem was Dillon's own self -destructive nature: the Big Red was penalized for over 100 yards on the day. 
"I was happy with the vic­tory," said Dillon coach Jeff Morgan, "because we did have so many injuries. A lot of our younger guys came through." 
Mike Brammer at quarter­back and Murphy at fullback were the key weapons for the Big Red offense. Brammer kicked a field goal and scored Dillon's lone touchdown on a two-yard sneak. Murphy's solid running set up Bram­mer's TD and also kept the ball out of Grace's hands for much of the game. 
Dillon senior Bill Cellebrezze is on an extended pass-catching streak -the wide-receiver has now caught a pass in fifteen consecutive games, dating back to his freshman year. Morgan knows that his team is good, but he is not overconfi­dent. 
"With all of the injuries we have, I'll reserve judgement. But if our injured people come back, then I'm very confident.'' 
Dillon's defense benefitted largely from the play of two de­fensive linemen, freshman Tim Murphy and sophomore Scott Henson. Their strong tackling and pass rushing forced Grace into an ineffective passing game. 
The second playoff spot from the Parseghian Division is still up for grabs. No team has been eliminated from contention, but Morrissey seems to have the inside track. While Flanner can virtually clinch a spot with a victory, they have to play the undefeated Big Red -not an easy task. Should Flanner lose, Morrissey would make the playoffs with a victory over Grace. 
Flanner tied Off-Campus on Sunday, 6-6. The Crime's RJ Haggerty's third quarter touchdown reception set the final score. Off-Campus had more than 150 yards in total of­fense, but miscues cost th~m points. Particularly effective was the Reynolds-Haggerty connection, which the Flan­nerites had a tough time stop­ping. 
"We played an excellent game," said Reynolds. "We must have had the ball inside their 30-yard line four times, and we only scored once." 
see OFFENSE, page 13 

Holtz discusses QB picture 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
With the announcement that Terry Andrysiak would miss the remainder of the season with a broken collarbone, the quarterback replacement derby began in earnest. It's a three-horse race, but Tony Rice appears to have the inside track 
The sophomore, who sat out last season under the provi­sions of Proposition 48, di­rected the Irish to all their scores in the second half of their 30-22loss to Pitt Saturday. 
"Tony did a very admirable job coming into the football game and playing the second half," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said at his weekly press conference Tuesday. "He put 22 points on the board against a very good Pitt defensive team. One or two times he for­got who he pitched the ball to and what was maybe a four-or five-yard gain could have been more. 
"But he did not turn the foot­ball over. He almost threw an interception because he mis­read the coverage. It was easier (to read coverages) against Pitt because they play mostly man coverage. It will be different because our next five opponents play mostly zone coverage." 
Holtz, however, did not ex­plicitly give the starting nod to Rice, although he did say he would get a lot work with the first team, and pointed out that freshman Kent Graham and junior Pete Graham (no rela­tion) may also have a shot. 
"You may see Pete Graham," Holtz said. "He's a junior but has played very, very sparingly. He's got a good head on his shoulders and makes good decisions and un­derstands the offense -check­offs, coverages, etc. Conse­quently that's why Peter Graham may be the quarter­back. 
"Kent Graham is 6-5 so he can see (the field). I hope he has a good understanding of pass coverages, but I really don't know. He's still a young­ster." 
Although Holtz has three players gunning for the top slot, he said he didn't want to have a quarterback controversy -a situation common to Notre Dame in recent years. 
"The one thing we're not going to have on this football team is we're not going to have a quarterback controversy," Holtz said. "We're not going to have our players, our fans or anybody else decide who should be the quarterback and pulling for one guy or the other. That's always the case when you have a situation where you've got a couple of freshman and some of them are very talented and can do certain things, but they're still fresh­men. That decision is someth­ing that will have to be reached by the coaching staff, and everybody, including the players, is going to have to ac­cept that." 
By ROB PIERCE Sports Writer 
The Off-Campus Hoobers took a major step toward defending their men's interhall soccer crown Sunday when they edged Morrissey A, 1-0 in overtime. Both teams came into the game with perfect 4-0 records, but in the end it was the manpower of the Hoobers outlasting a Morrissey squad missing several key players. 
"We had only twelve men be­cause a few went to watch the football game," said Morrissey coach Pat Brisbane. "But the rest of the team really gave a good effort and almost pulled it out." 
Neither team could manage a goal in regulation as Pat Marschall of the Hoobers and Joe Nelson of Morrissey were flawless in goal. But with only 
seconds left in the five-minute extra period, Morrissey was whistled for a push in the penalty box, and Hoober Mike Johnson booted home the penalty kick for the victory. 
"It was really a controver­sial call by the referee," said Brisbane, "because he changed his call from indirect to direct. But we can still make the playoffs and maybe meet the Hoobers again." 
"We look pretty strong," said Hoober captain Dave Thompson, "having outscored the opposition 19-0 on the year. We have five players back from last year's team and should do well in the playoffs." 
In other weekend action, Grace A remained alive in the playoff hunt with a 4-0 shutout of Dillon Big Red. Grace is now 3-1 on the season, while Dillon dropped to 2-4. The Law School 
see SOCCER, page 14 

The envelopes please . .. 
It's been a season of streaks, corks and scuffed balls. 
The 1987 major league baseball season provided baseball fans with a gamut of emotions, results and performances that have proven once again that this game of baseball is indeed our national pastime. With the Fall Classic soon upon us, let's take a look back at the good, the bad, the ugly and the downright ridiculous. 
Let's start at the beginning. The Sports Illustrated Jinx award goes to the hapless Cleveland Indians, who were picked by that esteemed publication to run away with the American League East title, and then some. The Tribe finished with a record of 61-101, the worst in baseball, and were 37 games behind Detroit, the division champs. 

Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

But let's give credit where it is due. SI made up for its poor prognosticating with the July 7 'One Day in Baseball' issue, a look at the institutions and idiosyncrasies of the game -such as Fenway Park's Green Monster, Wrigley Field's apartment-top view beyond the left and right field bleachers and the amazing mind of Whitey Herzog. Thank you, Sports Illustrated, for a fantastic tribute to baseball. 
The Abracadabra award goes to Joe Niekro of the Atlanta Braves, for his attempt to make an emory board, used to scuff the baseball, disappear. The umpires and on-the-ball TV cameramen nabbed the would-be magician. 
Chicago Cubs' slugger Andre Dawson is the recipient of the I'm Playing For Peanuts award. Dawson drew a salary of only $650,000 and responded by leading the majors in home runs (49) and runs batted in (137). He may just be theNational League MVP despite the Cubbies' second-half nosedive. Dawson's value, compared to his peers, is mil­lions, although nobody should be paid a million dollars to play the game of baseball for nine months. 
A scholarship to the Bill Buckner School of Fielding goes to Toronto's Manny Lee, who replaced injured shortstop Tony Fernandez in the final week of the season. Alan Trammell's ground ball in the bottom of the 12th inning scooted through Lee's legs, a-la-Billy-Buck, allowing the winning run to cross the plate for Detroit on the next-to-last day. of the season and set the stage for the Tigers' division title clincher the next day. 
The Say Hey Kid award goes to Cincinnati's Eric Davis, who drew comparisons to the game's best all-around player ever, Willie Mays, by hitting home runs, stealing bases and proving that no batted ball, especially a Jack Clark home run shot, is a sure hit with his dazzling fielding. 
Did somebody say strike? Kansas City outfielder (or is it the LA Raiders running back?) Bo Jackson, who struck out an average of 1.4 times per game (160-plus for the season), now joins the picketing Raiders for his hobby. 
The I'll Take It Again award goes to Boston's Rocket Roger Clemens, who rallied back from a 4-6 start to lead 
see AWARDS, page 13 






