Heat Is on
IACCENT: Dick and Jane get married Partly sunny and hot today with a high near 80. A twenty percent chance of afternoon thunderstorms and a low
IVIEWPOINT: Revise the alcohol policy 
tonight around 60. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 25 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 

Iran defies U.N. order to end war 
Associated Press tween terminals on Iran's gulf coastline. INA, monitored in 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Iraq Cyprus, said all the warplanes said its war jets attacked four returned safely. tankers shuttling oil along the Iran also accused the United Iranian coast in a 20-hour span States of mistreating 26 Iranian ending Sunday night, as Bagh­seamean who were repatriated dad kept up pressure on Iran's to Tehran on Sunday after U.S. vulnerable oil lifeline. helicopter gunships attacked 
The attacks coincided with a and disabled their minelaying new warning by Iraq of all-out landing barge in the gulf. war if Iran fails to accept a Iran's official Islamic cease-fire demanded by the Republic News Agency said the United Nations. U.S. navy kept the captured 
Iran retorted that it would Iranians bound and "savagely pursue its "holy war" against imprisoned" below decks on Iraq's secular government un­U.S. warships, and that the til President Saddam Hussein Americans tried to induce the was toppled. The Persian Gulf prisoners to defect. neighbors have been at war IRNA was also monitored in since September 1980. Cyprus. 
Shipping officials based in "For political propaganda the Persian Gulf confirmed the purposes, the Americans of­first three Iraqi attacks. fered to give the crew members 
They could not immediately political asylum, but they were verify a fourth raid that the of­met with a negative response ficial Iraqi News Agency said by the Iranians," Ali was carried out after dark Sun­Rabizadeh, an Iranian navy 
day against a "very large petty officer, was quoted as
The Observer I Zoltan Ury

Strung up naval target" off the coast of saying. Iran. That phrase usually
An unidentified band member gears up for the Battle of the Bands which was held Saturday rllght 
means a tanker sailing be-see IRAN, page 5
at Theodore's. 
DUI task force seeks state funds to remain effective 
By NATASHA WILSON drunk driving campaigns, said tended surveillance of the Dame, according to Rakow. year's alcohol awareness week News Staff Rakow, who is also the director areas with high accident rates Various campus organizations, on campus, Willis said. 
A local task force working to of security and police at Notre and drunk driving incidents, especially Bacchus, have co­As part of the program, prevent drunk driving tried to Dame. according to Rakow. sponsored with the force alco­police officers on the task force persuade state officials at a "The statistics show our ac­Then, the members, who hol awareness programs for demonstrated the use of breath public hearing to provide con­tivities have had a positive im­were mostly law enforcement students, Rakow added. testing units in the residence tinued funding for its program. pact on drinking related acci­officials, began to receive sup­"The force's intent to reduce halls and reviewed the proce­
"The purpose of the meeting dents in our area. The bottom port from the local media, drunk driving and the fatalies dure used when pulling over was to update the state on the line is saving lives that might courts and educators and associated with it, fits into one suspected drunk drivers, ac­task force's work," said Rex be lost in traffic accidents in­evetually the force's role in the of the goals of Bacchus," said cording to Rakow. Rakow, the chairman of the St. volving alcohol," he said. community expanded to an Vince Willis, past vice presi­The officers actually Joseph-Elkhart Counties divi­Rakow credits the force's educational one as well, Rakow dent of the Notre Dame chapter analyzed the blood alcohol sion of the Governor's Task success with its involvement in said. of Bacchus and current mem­levels of some students. "I Force to Reduce Drunk both the educational and en­In addition to working with ber of the organization's Na­
think the students were 
Driving. The force, which forcement processes of pre­county educators and law en­tional Board of Trustees. 
surprised at their levels and was created in 1984, currently venting drunk driving. forcement agencies, the task This 'informal relationship' has 20 members who meet once Initially, the force's main force also coordinates educa­between the two groups has 
see FUNDS, page 3
a month to plan various anti-function was to provide ex-tional activities at Notre resulted in events such as last 

Iran's president proposes arms trade for hostages 
Associated Press 
KUWAIT -A Kuwaiti news­paper said Saturday that Iranian President Ali Khamenei told Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres that he would help secure the release of American hostages in Lebanon in return for U.S. arms. 
The daily Al-Rai Al-Aam said Khamanei made the proposal during a three-hour meeting Tuesday with Peres in New York where the two were at­tending the U.N. General As­sembly session. 
In Jerusalem, an Israeli Foreign Ministry official, speaking with the condition he not be be identified, said the ministry had no knowledge of such a meeting. 
Al-Rai Al-Aam said that after the meeting, Peres conferred with Secretary of State George Shultz. 
The article said, "Peres told Shultz that Khamenei ex­pressed readiness to secure the release of Americans held hostage in Lebanon in return for an arms shipment that in­cludes ground-to-air Hawk missiles and spare parts for (Iran's) U.S.-made Phantom jets." It attributed its report to unidentified U.S. State Depar­tment officials. 


Bush meets with Polish leaders 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland -Vice President George Bush met Saturday with Polish leader Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski as he began a four-day visit to Poland with a declaration that he would seek to promote freedom in a way that does not "disrupt or divide" the communist country. 
"We seek only to play a con­structive role in bringing about the national reconcilia­tion that everyone in Poland desires and to promote the cause of freedom," said Bush, the highest-ranking Ameri­can official to visit this nation in a decade. 

"I want to make clear that our intention is not to disrupt or divide, nor is it to inter­fere," he said. 
Bush, who meets Sunday with officials of the banned Solidarity trade union, met with Cardinal Jozef Glemp, head of the powerful Roman Catholic Church in Poland, and separately with Catholic intellectuals in a day that combined the ceremonial with the official. 
Moving around the austere looking Eastern bloc city in a shiny black American limousine, Bush also laid wreaths at the Polish Tomb of the unknown soldier and at a memorial to those killed in 
the Warsaw Jewish Ghetto 
Uprising against the Nazis in 
World War II. 
A few thousand Poles turned out to see the Ameri­can vice president, even though the Polish government did not publish a detailed schedule for his visit. 
Bush's official trip to Europe took on a slightly po­litical cast when a camera crew paid for by his campaign organization began taping his appearances for future cam­paign commercials. 
The vice president is ex­pected to announce his can­didacy for the 1988 Republi­can presidential nomination on Oct. 12. 
page 2 

In Brief 
Robert Bork's nomination to the Supreme Court is opposed by Americans by a 2-to-1 margin, according to a Louis Harris survey taken last week. In a telepho~e survey of 1249 adults between Sept. 17-23, 57 percent said they were ~pposed to Bork's coiJ!irmation while 29 percent were in favor, the New York Daily News reported Sunday. 

Of Interest 
Senior Dogbook Refunds will be given out today from 4-6 p.m. and tomorrow from 6-8 p.m. in the Annapolis Room of LaFortune. Student I.D. will be required. -The Observer 
Going to Tianjin, China? An informational meeting concerning the Foreign Study Program in Tianjin, China will be held tonight at 6:30p.m. in 103 O'Shaughnessy. ­
The Observer 

The Class of '88 is invited to begin Wedding Week with a piece of wedding cake today at Fieldhouse Mall. Information for the entire week will be available. -The Observer 
Eatin~AwarenessTrainin~isatwo-partworkshop 
designea for individuals concernecf about their own eating habits or someone they care about. Session II, "Why the problem exists," will be held tomorrow night from 6:30­
7:30 p.m. in room 300 of the Student Health Center. -The Observer 
Rock overLondon features music from BelouisSome, The Christians, Wax1 and Broken English, as well as the debut of the new Housemartins single in UK's rock top five. Rock Over London can be heard every Monday at midnight on 88.9 WSND-FM. -The Observer 
AIESEC meeting will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. All people interested in international business are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Encounter 2, a studentifaculty!Staff run retreat sponsored by Campus Ministry, will be held Oct. 9-11. Tomorrow, September 29, is the deadline for signing up. Applications may be picked up and returned at the Campus Ministry Office in Badin Hall. -The Obser­ver 
Auditions1nterviews will be held by the Department of Communication and Theatre with regard to forming a Theatre for Young Audiences. Interested people may audi­tion today and tomorrow from 3-5 p.m. in the Lab Theatre of Washington Hall. For more information, contact Prof. Reg Bain at 239-7170. -The Observer 
''Developmental Genetics ofC. Elegans," a lecture by Dr. H. R. Horvitz of MIT, will be held this afternoon at 4:30p.m. in 283 Galvin Life Science. The lecture is part of the Biological Sciences Seminar. -The Observer 
Moreau Galleries at St. Mary's is presently exhibiting prints from the Santa Reparta Graphic Art Centre in Florence, Italy. The exhibit, which opened September 25, will run until October 29. For more information, including gallery hours, call 284-4655. -The Observer 
The Baptist Student Union of Notre Dame will sponser a Bible Study tonight at 7 p.m. in the Bulla House. Everyone is welcome. For further information, call Carla at 283-4380 or Nancy at 283-2841. -The Observer 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 
Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Deaign Aulatant ................ Joe Zadrozny Typesetters ........................ Michael Buc ........................................... Daniel Cahill News Editor ........................ Cathy Stacy CDpl/ Editor ..................... Rachel Jarosh Sparta Copy Editor ............ Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Brian Conway Viewpoint Layout .............. Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck 


Tilt 01111nw (USPS S99 2...000) is published Monday throu1h Friday except durinl exam and vacation periods. Tilt oe-ner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collele. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per yeu (123 per lellleltel') by wriliDI Tilt o..n.r, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiua 46556. 
n.oe.n. ia a member or Tilt Aaoclatld rn.. All reproduction rishts are .-ned. 
Accent Layout ............. Katy Kronenberg BuaineBB Page Editor ......... Steve Claeys BuaineB3 Page Layout.. ..... Heidi Traxler Typlats ............................. Karen Vossen ....................................... Jennifer Conlon ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee Ad Design ........................... Molly Killen ................................... Mary Bridget Silk ................................ Mary Anne Riordan Photographer ........................ Zoltan Ury 
Monday, September 28, 1987
The Observer 

Let's throw Spuds back into the pound 
The world is going to the dogs. 

This fact became appallingly clear to me when I surveyed several retail stores for my home paper last summer to determine what was the bestselling T-shirt. 
If you thought people actually cared that this summer marked the 200th anniversary of the constitutional convention, you are terribly deluded. Hardly anyone would be caught dead with the Liberty Bell, Statue of Liberty, bald eagle, or any other such tackily jingoistic sym­bol on their chest. 
No, the shirt to which people were flocking in droves featured Spuds MacKenzie. 
I don't know about anybody else, but I think we've just about hit the bottom of the barrel with this latest American icon. Things were bad enough when the height of cultural expression consisted of posting rock stars or stupid quips on our chests. But now we've positively reached the dregs. Now the essence of American culture is embodied in some shiftless, hedonistic En­glish bull terrier, the ultimate "party animal," 
So what does Spuds have that Thomas Jeffer­son doesn't? He likes to drink beer, the only places where you can find him are night clubs, yachts and beaches (remember: he's a "real happenin' dude"), and he virtually has his own harem of scantily clad playmates. What could be more American, someone might interpose? Forget Jefferson. Everybody wants to be a "party animal" these days. So now we have one. Subconsciously, I am sure, every red-blooded, football-watching, beer-guzzling American male says to himself when he sees Spuds, "if only I could be more like him!" and as a result Anheuser-Busch sells more beers. We've come a long way since the day when Thomas Edison and George Washington were citedbyJoeAverageasheroes.Forthatmatter, we've come a long way since the day when this country's idol was John Wayne. 
Spuds alone would be bad enough, in my 
opinion, but unfortunately he (although I am 
told "he" is really a "she") seems to represent 
not just a stupid fad, but rather an increasing 
trend toward triviality in general. We hear con­
tinually about how everything in the universe 
is evolving inevitably toward perfection and in­
creasing sophistication, yet let the progressivist 
explain this: up to the 1920s, the majority of 
America's idols were statesmen, entrepreneurs 
and generals; then starting with the '20's people 
paid homage primarily to sports heroes; then 
starting with the '30's almost everybody wor­
shipped actors and actresses; then beginning 
in the '60's cults formed around rock groups; 
and now at last in the '80's the evolution of 
Americana has reached its Omega Point: a 
debauched dog wearing a tank-top. 
In general, everything these days seems to 
me to becoming more and more like a cartoon. 
Those mawkish little Smurfs and Care Bears 
are just the start of it. Drive through the most 

Chris Julka 
Assistant News Editor 

recently built section of any town and all you see are bright, plastic signs and golden arches as though you were passing through a lolly pop factory. Go to almost any restaurant, and all you will find are plastic chairs, plastic tables and people with stupid paper hats making you feel as if you had just entered a Fisher-Price play set. Just look at how we dress. Almost everybody, myself included, wears bermuda shorts, boxer shorts, T-shirts, and oversized sweatshirts --as if we all lived in some Peanuts cartoon strip. 
These days things have become so cartooned and lampooned that our leading politicians deliver speeches that sound like Johnny Carson monologues. Even the priests at this university feel they have to tell jokes in their homilies to be listened to, to the point that one starts to wonder if one is in a chapel or a low-key nightclub. 
Whatever happened to those days when our architecture was sober and dignified, adults dressed like adults instead of children, and Presidents didn't have to be stand-up com­edians to survive politically? Quite frankly I've had enough of anything cute, cuddly, fuzzy or gooey. Let's throw Spuds back into the pound, ban the Smurfs, and not feel obliged to trivialize anything that could possibly be of significance, from politics to sex to religion. 
Yet does anybody care about what I am saying? No. The first thing the people at this paper want to do with my article is to decorate it with yet another cartoon! 


~~--o•l 
I 

Unltadwau 

MARIEO OHNO 

Location: Annenberg Auditorium (Sni~ Museum of Art) Time: Wednesday Sep~moer 30, 7:00p.m. 
10 ADBIS$101 CJABGE 
~-~-~ --~-----------"""'""""' 
,------------------.--~---.----r---------------------------------------·-------------­
Monday, September 28, 1987 
The Observer page 3 

Author: Casey and Saudi planned covert operation 
Associated Press that Casey, although a student 
of President Reagan, never 
WASHINGTON -The late "figured him out." 
CIA director William Casey "It's absolute blasphemy. 
turned to the Saudi Arabian My husband loved the presi­
government for money and dent," she said, adding that she 
help when it became clear that was outraged when she read 
his own effort to create a secret that Woodward wrote her hus­
anti-terrorist force was not band was "struck by the over­
going to work, according to ex­all passivity of the president.'' 
cerpts published Sunday of a .Woodward also provides 
forthcoming book by Bob details of what he says was 
Woodward. Casey's deathbed confession of 
"He's lying about that," Sop­his knowledge of the diversion 
hia Casey, the wife of the late of Iran arms profits to the 
CIA director, said of Wood­Nicaraguan Contra rebels. 
ward's account. Casey's impatience with the 
Woodward issued a state­CIA's emphasis on intelligence 
ment saying he stood by his gathering rather than covert 
version of the story. action reached a peak in 1985, 
The book also describes when the administration was 
Casey as an action-oriented anxious to assert itself in the 
man who was "struck by the Middle East after terrorists 
overall passivity of the presi­had bombed U.S. facilities in 
dent. .. " And the book says Beirut, the book says. 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
CHILE; SOUTH AMERICA 

* Community Life 
8

* 
Inter-Cultural Experience 

* 
Simple Lifestyle 

* 
Ministry I Service 



are all components of the Holy Cross Associates/Chile experience. Explore this 2-year volunteer opportunity. 
For information/application materials contact: 
I

Jane Pitz; HCA Office, Moreau Seminary (239-5521) or Mary Ann Roemer; Center for Social Concerns (239-7949) 
Application Deadline: Friday, November 6, 1987 


Secretary of State George Schultz and Soviet hands at the United States Mission to the United Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze shake Nations. See story on page 1. 
Candidates debate arms control 
Associated Press military spending and pro­missiles. grams like the "Star Wars" Some hopefuls worried that 
DES MOINES, Iowa -Six missile defense system, but appearing "soft" on defense Democratic presidential hope­they have generally backed the has cost Democrats badly in fuls, finding themselves in rare new arms control agreement. past elections, but one can­agreement with President Republicans, on the other didate, Sen. Albert Gore of Ten­Reagan on arms control, hand, have split, with Vice nessee, argued that the GOP is sought Sunday to spell out their President George Bush back­facing problems this time be­own positions on defense, a ing the agreement, and con­cause arms control has become topic which has bedeviled the servatives like former a powerful and popular issue. party in the past. Delaware Gov. Pete duPont The debate, the latest in a se­
The candidates agreed to criticizing the deal. ries of joint appearances by the debate Sunday before an arms The agreement, expected to Democratic hopefuls, comes as control group, and several be signed later this fall at a the field regroups after Dela­made major speeches on the summit meeting between ware Sen. Joseph Biden's deci­subject in the pa:Jt week. Reagan and Soviet leader Mik­sion to drop out of the race be­
As they spell out their posi­hail Gorbachev, would elimi­cause of allegations of tions, most of the Democrats nate an entire class of plagiarism and misrepresenta­have taken shots at Reagan's intermediate-range nuclear tion of his academic record. 
Those who agreed to appear include Gore, Rep. Richard Gephardt of Missouri, Massa­chusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis, civil rights activist Jesse Jackson, former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt and Sen. Paul Simon of Illir!Ois. 
Funds 
continued from page 1 
how near they were to the legal (driving) limit (.10)," Rakow 
~;aid. 
"Everyone who saw that pro­gram said they would have to think more about driving after drinking alcohol (in the fu­

ture)," Willis said. 
"The force has always been an available resource for our anti-drinking and driving cam­paigns," Willis contends. 
"We are making a good im­pact, but we still need to reach more students. We hope to con­tinue this year in our efforts," Rakow said. 
The task force, however, needs state funding to ac­complish its goals, according to Rakow. A few months ago, when the state threatened to cut off their funding, the force members vowed to continue volunteering their services in the St. Joseph and Elkhart com­munities, Rakow said. 
"Our people are that com­mited to the program," Rakow added. 
Rakow said he is fairly con­fident the state will continue to provide resources for the pro­gram. One positive indication, he noted, is the state's recent request for the force to expand its coverage to 25 counties in Northern Indiana in order to help those areas establish similar committees. 
--~------------­
page 4 Monday, September 28, 1987 

Two great ways to cruise through the semester 

The hand on rl1e left is poised on \\·hat could be rl1e most essential part of rour education. 
A~lacintosh'" computer. 

And me h~md on rl1e right is gripping pure. simple. unadulterated fun. 
AHoncb Scooter. One \\·e·re giring ~I\ray. 
All you ha\'e to do for ach~mce to drire it a\Yay is risit your cunpus computer center ~md fill out ~m entrr fi >rm. \\'bile rou·re rl1ere. take a ~lacintosh for atest drire. · · 
Because .\lacintosh em help you \\Tite term papers, categorize element-; of_rl1e periodic table, plot rl1e rise ~md fall of pork-belly prices, compile computer code. ~md talk to od1er computers. 
And rl1e first 250 people on cunpus \\·ho get behind amouse, so to speak, will recei\'e afree Apple memo board. 
St >head t>\-er tl >yt >Lir cunpus n>mputL'r l'L'I1tL'r tl lLLiy..\nd ~L"k JI"X )lit l >ur Student Financing Pn >gram 
\\h> knt>\\:;?)(>u mar st>lll1 find rtlur~dfcruisin~ ~llittk· brtl1l'r tlun ~'l >u expected. · ' 

....:» ..... ,..,...
...... 
tl. Test drive aMacint()Sh. a':.DA You mav ride awa\T ()11 aH()nda SC()()ter 
AUGUST 20 -OCTOBER 1 COMPUTER STORE -Room 25 Computing Center 
Cl'r~tin re~triction~ applr. ri~it mur c:unpu~ computer cemer for complete prommional de~tib. ·Onl' frt:L' II< lllda Elite'" ~~~ ~t'l" >tl'r 11111 ht: .tll,trdl'd l'<'r p.trth IJ'.IItng ,, ih ,, •1. 1lllh regi,tered .'tudt·nt-;Uld t:tcuhr are eligihle 111 ,,.ill Odds of winning l:trr depending llll.,ize l>f,dlt>l >I amlmunher 1>f1·1 >Ill'''' t:tnr.un, \1 'J'lll\ h.N· 11n "''".' <:: llJK" .\ppk: Computer. Inc :\ppk: anJ the :\pple ltll!o are reghtereJ traJemark.,nf:\pple Computer. Inc ~ladntt>,h i' ;I tradt.:mark 1>1.\J'Pk-l :, >mputtT.In, Htt,· 1, .1 tr.t,kllt.tr\.., •Ill• •11d.1 
Monday, September 28, 1987 
The Observer page 5 
Chinese premier defends purge of party dissidents 
on the Sunday morning pro­Associated Press· gram "Meet the Press." Zhao has also been the 
BEIJING -Premier Zhao party's acting general secre­Ziyang defended the Commu­tary since Hu Yaobang was nist Party's purge of dissident ousted last winter. He said he members, but said in an inter­does not want the job perma­view broadcast Sunday that in­nently. tellectuals are free to voice "I think I'm not that fit to be their opinions outside the the general secretary," Zhao party. said. "I'm more fit to look after 
"I don't think this is a crack­economic affairs." down," Zhao told NBC's Tom Zhao has made similar state­Brokaw in a rare interview ments in the past, but nonethe­
broadcast in the United States less is widely expected to be 
Terrorists threaten U.S., Greek talks for accord 
Associated Press newspapers. 
The Popular Struggle group 
ATHENS, Greece · A time has claimed responsibility for bomb believed placed by left­more than 200 bombings wing terrorists exploded early around the city since 1975, but Sunday outside an American none of its members has been military store in downtown At­arrested. The group's last at­hens, causing severe damage tack against an American mil­but no injuries, police reported. itary target was in September 
Witnesses said the blast 1985, when five cars were blown smashed windows in the up outside a seaside hotel used hangar-sized building, as a recreation center by U.S. uprooted trees on the sidewalk servicemen. and shattered nearby Last month the group said its storefronts. members were responsible for 
"My whole house shook with a bomb blast at the Finance the loudest noise I've ever Ministry in the city center and heard," said Panayotis Em­an August attack that damaged valentidis, a nightwatchman at a tax office in the southern a car showroom across the town of Leonidion. street from the U.S. post­In March 1986, the extremists exchange building that was took responsibility for a bom­closed at the time. bing that toppled a statue of the 
The bomb, left beside a tree, late President Harry Truman exploded at 1:15 a.m. outside in central Athens. the commissary used mainly Sunday's attack came by American servicemen from shortly before Greek and U.S. the Air Force base at Athens officials are to start talks for a airport, said a police spokes­new agreement on U.S. bases man. in Greece. 
He said a leftist group, the Socialist Premier Andreas Revolutionary Popular Papandreou has backed away Struggle, asserted responsibil­from past pledges to shut down ity for the bombing in a tele­the bases after the current phone call to the Eleftherotypia agreement runs out in 
Onesummer 
atMCM 
isworthaytm
(or more) 
at mostlaw 
firms. 
Summer Clerks at Mackall Crounse & Moore do not languish in the library. We involve them in client conferences, hearings, depositions and discovery processes. We give them a chance to show their stuff. And for good reason. That's how we find a good many of our Associates. Write us for details. Or call Judith Grothe, our recruiting coordinator at 612-333-1341. 
M\( 
lNSE 
Where young lnwyers get plenty of practice. 
1600 TCF 1bwer 121 South Eighth Street Minneapolis MN 55402 
given the top party post at the proteges of top leader Deng "NBC nightly News" will be 13th party congress, which Xiaoping. broadcast from Beijing.begins Oct. 25. As premier, Zhao has been 
He told Brokaw, "There is a the main implementer of regulation in the Communist market-force economic Asked about dissidents jailed Party of China that the party reforms advocated by Deng to for criticizing the Chinese lead­member should observe the di­reduce the role of central plan­ership, Zhao said, "so far as I rection from the party. And I ning. know, there is no such case, for think this matter will be finally Zhao, 68, has given few inter­people to be unfairly treated or decided upon" by the congress. views to Western reporters even arrested or jailed simply 
Hu lost his post as general since taking office in 1980. The because they have secretary after being criticized "Meet the Press" program criticized ... the leadership. as too soft on pro-democracy begins a week of special NBC Of course ... if people violate student demonstrators. Both coverage of China during the law, it will be another Hu and Zhao rose to power as which the "Today" show and case." 

Beware 

Untold numbers of anti-rally crowds were ex-to a Klu Klux Klan rally scheduled for Saturday, pected to show up at this Maine farm In response according to town officials. 
Frosh council initiates members 
By GREG LUCAS articulation, responsibility and horizons and form a bond with service-mindedness in poten­fellow freshmen."
Senior Staff Reporter 

tial representatives. The initiation meeting was Speakers at the initiation The members of this year's 
held for the new members of meeting included Pat Cooke, council are: Robert Pasin, the Freshman Advisory Coun­student body president and Alumni; Melissa Hutton, cil last Thursday night at the Dave Kinkopf, Sophomore Badin; Kristen Stamile, Breen­Morris Inn, said Emil Hofman, class president who spoke on Phillips; Richard Riva, Car­dean of Freshman Year of leadership and the role of the roll; Mike Larson, Cavanaugh; Studies. Hofman, who retired Freshman Advisory Council, Stephan Wagner, Dillon; Char­last year as long time freshman Hofman said. lette Kaufmann, Farley; 
James Ferrick, Fisher; Gerald 
chemistry teacher and nemesis, remained Dean of According to Hofman, both Greer, Flanner; Michael Freshman year and advisor to Cooke and Kinkopf served on Locascio, Grace; Daniel the Freshman Council. the Freshman Advisory Coun­Gabriel, Holy Cross; Mary 
"The Freshman Advisory cil in their freshman year. Prechtel, Howard; Dennis Council provides a liason be­"The FAC becomes a training Lynch, Keenan; Theresa tween the freshmen and the ground for campus leaders," McCaughey, Lewis; Mary Freshman Year of Studies," Hofman said. Susan Twohy, Lyons; Daniel 
Trainor, Morrissey; Derik
said Hofman. The council con­Mike Larson, representative sists of a rector appointed rep­from Cavanaugh Hall, said "I Weldon, Pangborn; Julie resentative from each hall, see the Freshman Advisory Shadd, Pasquerilla East; 
Hofman said, adding that Council as an outstanding op­Stacy Farrar, Pasquerilla 
West; Michael Wieber, Saintrectors are asked to look for to Edward's; Michael Shinnick, Sorin; Francis Timons, Stan­ford; Kara Lenahan, Walsh; Shane Gillespie, Zahm. 

NCLES' IRISH ,UI 
Iran 
4609 Grape Road 
continued from page 1 
J.M.S. Plaza 
In Washington, the State De­
Mishawaka 
partment said it did not know of any offer of asylum, but said all 26 Iranians returned wil­
Tuesday 
lingly on Saturday, along with the bodies of three comrades killed in Monday's U.S. attack. 
A U.S. navy demolition team blew up and sank the 1,662-ton Iran Ajr Saturday, hours
10 ct 
before its crew was handed over to Iranian diplomats in the neutral sultanate of Oman. 
Defense · Secretary Caspar Weinberger, concluding a four­day visit to the region, told the Gulf News Agency the United States would press for a U.N. arms embargo against Iran if Tehran did not accept the Se­curity Council's cease-fire resolution. 
Draft beers 
Monday, September 28, 1987

page 6 The Observer 

Shiite faction holding hostages 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -A pro­Iranian Shiite Moslem faction holding foreign hostages in Lebanon threatened to kill Tunisian government leaders if seven fundamentalist convicts are executed in that North African Arab nation. 
The threat came in a type­written Arabic statement issued by Islamic Jihad, or Is­lamic Holy War, and delivered to a Western news agency in Beirut along with a photograph of American hostage Terry An­derson. 
"We consider this step as a declaration of war on Moslems not only in Tunisia but through­out the world," Islamic Jihad's statement said. 
"Unless the Tunisian regime reverses its unjust sentences and releases all the imprisoned strugglers, it will bear the re­sponsibility for this step which will only end with the uprooting and elimination of the regime. 
"Either freedom for the strugglers or war which we. will not confine to a specific time or place."
-
The black-and-white photo showed Anderson in a dark striped shirt looking straight at the camera. The picture was similar to five other photos of Anderson released in Novem­ber and December of 1986 and January and February 1987. 
Anderson, 39, chief Middle East correspondent for The As­sociated Press, is the longest held hostage among the 23 foreigners missing and believed kidnapped in Lebanon. He was abducted March 16, 1985. 
In addition, Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite is missing after he vanished last January during a mission to attempt to mediate the release of some of the hostages. 
Islamic Jihad, which claimed responsibility for Anderson's abduction, also holds another American and -at least three Frenchmen. The group's new statement made no threats against the hostages. 
The release of Anderson's picture appeared to be only meant to authenticate the statement. 
"The price for the execuion of our struggling brothers will be big heads of the leaders of the Tunisian oppressive regime," the statement said. 

Artificial insemination to save exotic animals 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. Veterinarians at the Louisville Zoo, who successfully trans­ferred a zebra embryo into a quarter horse in 1984, are now testing artificial insemination and embryo splitting as ways to save endangered species. 
"They're in the forefront. They really are," Dr. Joe Flanagan, staff veterinarian with the Houston Zoo, said of his colleagues in Louisville, who are led by Dr. Bill Foster. 
"We in the zoo business... know that Bill Foster is working with exotic equines, and no one else is really doing that. If I have a question, I call Bill." 
In the zoo's most unusual project, scientists early next year intend to extract a living embryo from an onager, a wild ass, split it, return half to the natural mother and implant the other half in a domestic mare. 
If the project succeeds, the result would be identical twin onagers with different mot­hers, Foster said .. 
Another 

BUS TRANSPORTATION,  
Reasonable Rates Call 259-9506 anytime  

HOLD THAT 
SUMMER TAN 

CALL US At 2zz-7o26 
BOOTHS 5 visits for $12.50 BEDS 10 visits for $39.00 DENT RATES 

J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 


The National Security Agency is 
looking. We're in search of new pro 
fessional relationships with both Mr. and Ms. Right. What we offer in return is a unique career that may well be the answer to your personal desires. 
What we offer is certainly different. At NSA, our threefold mission is critical to our country's security. We process foreign intelligence information. We safeguard our government's communications. And we secure our nation's computer systems. A mission of that proportion requires a diverse range of leading technology and talented professionals. 
Currently, NSA is searching for Mathe­maticians, Computer Scientists, La.ngua.ge Specialists a.nd Electronic Engineers. 
Our KathemaUciana work with applied a.nd pure ma.th. They a.pply-and create­
a. host of a.dva.nced concepts from Galois theory and combina.torics to proba.billty theory and a.strodyna.mics. 
Computer SclenU.u discover a. variety of projects a.nd technology that is vir­tua.lly unpa.ra.lleled. We use literally a.cres of computers, including hardware from every ma.jor manufacturer. Applications include everything from communcia.tions software to artificial intelligence. 
Language Speclaliau in Slavic, Nea.r Ea.st, a.nd Asia.n languages contribute to our mission in ma.ny wa.ys. NSA 11nguists tackle the cha.llenges of translation, transcription a.nd analysis. They use both their language skills a.nd their knowledge of world events. 
will focus on 
finding effective artificial in­semination methods for zebras. 
The Institute for Museum Services last month awarded the zoo a $10,080 grant to sup­port the artificial insemination research, and Zoo Foundation Chairman Bert Klein has all­ocated $25,000 for the embryo project. 
Foster said much of the zoo's inquiry is focused on reproduc­tion in exotic equine species ­wild horses and horse-like animals including zebras and onagers -because it ties in with Kentucky's horse industry. 
He said the purpose of the projects is to learn more about the ways in which the animals reproduce, with the ultimate goal of increasing the numbers and genetic diversity of threatened and endangered species. 
Sometime in February, Foster and Dr. Scott Bennett, an equine veterinarian from Simpsonville, plan to flush a 6­day-old embryo from the uterus of a female onager bor­rowed from the Mesker Park Zoo in Evansville, Ind. 
C~tacr­
IUSA-1 
f
-;:=a... I 

I
I 
I 
I 

Blectronlc Jlnglneers also find a. va.st a.rra.y of specialties from Signal Processing a.nd CAD/ CAM to Speech Processing a.nd Computer Security. 
The mission is vital, the variety staggering. And the benefits are also impressive. Our employees enjoy competitive compensa­tion plus the many a.dva.nta.ges of the Baltimore-Washington area.. 
If you're ilL search of a. meaningful career with variety and distinction, look to NSA. Schedule a.n interview through your College Placement Office. Or write to us a.t the a.dciress below. 
NSA will be on campus Oct. 29th Interviewing graduating seniors for Engineering, Computer Science, Math and Language positions. Limited summer positions are avallable for those who have completed junlor year. 

Ba,ional Securi'y Agency Attn: M322 (ABE) Ft. Meade, MD 20766-6000 
NSA. The opportunlt1es &I'B no BeCl'Bt. 
An equal opportunity employer. 
U.S. citizenship requil'ed for appl1ca.nt and immediate family members. 
Viewpoint 
page 7

Monday, September 28, 1987 
Alcohol policy ripe for revision 
About six years ago, the administra­tion found they had a problem.. They thought the students were abusing al­cohol, so the administration studied this problem and looked for a solution. As a result, the Alcohol Policy was created. This banned open containers, kegs, loud parties and just about every­thing else associated with college fun. It also promoted something known as responsible drinking. After some protest, the campus became sedate, serene and dull. All drinking, except for S.Y.R.'s, was pushed into rooms or off campus, where the administration could not see it. Since they could not see as many people drinking as they had before, it seemed the problem had been solved. 
Tom Varnum 
third and long 
But had it? Ask yourself, has there ever been a time when you weren't able to drink when you wanted to because of the Alcohol Policy? If there was no alcohol policy, would you drink more than you do now? I doubt it. Sure it's a pain in the behind that you can't walk around .with a beer in your hand but has that ever stopped you from drink­ing? The majority of drinking occurs at parties, not while walking around. While loud parties and open containers have disappeared from campus, stu­dent drinking continues to be a prob­lem. 
In fact, the alcohol policy may have made the situation worse. By pushing drinking into the rooms, the university has given problem drinkers a shield to hide behind. They can hole up in their room and abuse alcohol all they want, and no one will say anything about it. It seems, as far as the university is concerned, as long as you are quiet and in your room, you can drink yourself into oblivion if you want. Is this promot­ing responsible drinking? By severely restricting social drinking, the only thing some people will do now is drink to get drunk. 
For those socially adept drinkers, the only option was to move off campus and escape the watchful eyes of Rectors and 
R.A. 's. This move has brought about two more problems: drinking and driving and off campus parties getting broken up by police. In the past year, two people have been killed by Notre Dame students driving under the influ-
Doonesbury 
ence of alcohol. Problems at the parties 
have also become worse; many have 
been ended by the local police with their 
noise meters, ticket booklets, handcuffs 
and hungry pets. 
In creating the alcohol policy, the uni­
versity forced drinking off campus. 
They moved their problem out into the 
City of South Bend. Accordingly, the 
City of South Bend has taken action to 
solve this problem. You really can't 
blame South Bend for becoming upset 
with the University and its students. 
Local residents shouldn't have to deal 
with a University problem. The local 
police have enough to worry about with­
out worrying about rowdy college stu­
dents. They have to do what they can 
to serve the local residents (the dogs 
are a bit much, though). 
In response to the drunk driving 
(D.U.I.) problem, the administration 
has released a four page list of sanc­
tions and punishments for students ar­
rested for D.U.I. That is well and fine, 
but it does not solve the problem the 
Alcohol Policy has partially created. 
Instead of eliminating the situations 
where drinking and driving would oc­
cur, it punishes the offenders after the 
act has been committed. 
Perhaps the administration believes the threatened sanctions will frighten the potential drunk driver to think twice before getting behind the wheel. The problem is: Have you ever met a drunk person who is frightened easily or thinks twice about anything? Of course not. A sober person might read about the punishments and vow not to drink and drive, but after a few beers, all rationality goes down the toilet. If scare tactics worked, the threat of arrest and prosecution would reduce drunk drivers, but it doesn't. Why does the administration think that the loss of parking privliges would stop a student when the threat of arrest won't? 
The administration's proposal also does nothing about the off campus party problem, which seems to get worse every week. The relationship be­tween off campus students and local residents has . just about reached the breaking point. Pretty soon, this prob­lem will reach the point where the Uni­versity will have to act on it. 
So what is their next step? Many people believe it will be a completely dry campus. This, besides being ex­tremely childish and unfair, will not solve the problem. The off campus sit­uation would mushroom into something 

TOOAY W&'R£ V151TIN6 AN AMIIZIN6COUNTRY! A (l)UNTRY THAT IN SOM& RE71'5C7S 15 JUSTLIKe (J(Jf( OIAIN! 
/ 
fT'S ASPEC/AL PI.AC& /JHR&PEIJPi£. 
• OIAIN 2.3 VCRS PtR HOM&, 
• APPRIJV~ CF t.IPOSIJCT/ON, 
•CAN'Tf5f:TENOlJSH FOPCOI?N. ~---/ Y~S, 1rs... 

dreadful. What if the administration decides to expel anyone, on campus or off, illegally in possession of alcohol? Legal ramifications aside, it would be virtually impossible to enforce. 
What the administration must realize is that no matter what they do, we will still drink. No matter what sanctions or penalties are threatened, people, in general, will still drink. Prohibition proved this in the twenties. Having ex­amined all this, there might be another logical and possibly effective solution open to the administration. Maybe it's time to modify the alcohol policy. 
If the alcohol policy were modified, the major parties (which means the major drinking) would return to campus. This would mean three things. First, the social life on campus would improve. Second, Notre Dame's image in the community would improve be­cause off campus parties would be reduced. Thirgly, the instances of drinking and driving may be reduced. 
There are some problems with this idea, I know. Some people might ques­tion the legality of a more open drinking situation. Underage students might be exposed to more drinking. I doubt that. Underage students drink as much as 

Garry Trudeau 
..:·usA 
TOPAY!" 
\ 

they want to right now, and sometimes more. A more liberal policy will not change that. 
Another problem deals with drinking and driving. If the major parties were held on campus, off campus students would drive to them. Driving home would still cause a problem. My only possible answer to this would be that less people live off campus so less people would be driving to an on campus party than would be driving to an off campus party. It's a very weak answer, I know, but it can't be any weaker than a list of sanctions. 
My idea might work and, then again, it might not. I believe, however, it is a viable solution which not only deals with the D.U.I problem but the off campus party situation as well. 
The alcohol policy has not really promoted responsible drinking the way the administration had hoped. It has only forced drinking behind locked doors and off campus. It may have dis­rupted and even destroyed lives. Con­sidering this, isn't it about time to re­evaluate and modify the alcohol policy? 
Quote of the Day 
"It Is better to be hated for what you are than loved for what you are not." 
Andre Glde 
General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising M&nager .... ............... Melinda Chapleau News Editor .... .......................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ...................................Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news ts reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the optnion of the maJority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is 'encouraged. Founded November 3, 1988 
Acce 

page 8 Monday, September 28, 1987 
Just who are Dick and Jane? 
MIKE NAUGHTON accent editor 

S 
tudents first heard of Dick and Jane through their per­sonals to each other in The Observer: "DEAREST JANE ­THE MOST BEAUTIFUL SENIOR, My life is empty since you left me for Notre Dame..." and "TO DICK. MY VERY OWN MAG­NUM P.l. Your personal brought tears to my eyes and a throb to my heart. .. 
Every day, as regular as the weather, a new personal would appear. Every day a new snip­pet of sappy love-longing and sighs would make people choke on their lunch. Student interest grew: "Who is this Dick?" "Could two people pos­sibly be so sappy for each other?" The questions 

.-~·liY·····~····· 
WINDe()NQ STAYS ON IIY ...,,IIY 
remained unanswered, and the personals continued. In fact, they became, despite all predictions, even more ga-ga eyed and love-lorn. 
Interest in the mysterious lovers peaked last week when a half-page ad appeared in The Observer: "Jane -will you many me? Dick.'' 
Everywhere from the dining halls to the Huddle a cry arose, "Are these two for real!!??" 
Well, yes and no. 
The story of Dick and Jane begins far away from Notre Dame at another school, the New York Academy of Window Display Modeling. Dick and Jane met there during their freshman year and were in­separable from then on. 
Somehow, Jane was able to keep up the hectic pace of maintaining a relationship with Dick while studying at the 
Institute and moonlight­
ing at local clothing stores. 
Even though she was happy 
with her life, Jane felt the need 
to move on, and at the end of 
her junior year decided to 
transfer to the school of her 
dreams, Notre Dame. 
Dick, a strong, silent type, 
was a year older than Jane and 
stayed behind to model in a 
local clothing store. Jane has 
been having some difficulties 
since she transferred into Notre 
Dame her senior year. She is 
by nature a quiet person, so 
people sometimes think that 
she lacks personality. But she 
isn't a dummy. Because Jane 
was having trouble adjusting to 
life under the Dome, the senior 
class officers took it upon 
themselves to adopt her. 
According to Diane Fitzgib­

bon, senior class president, 
Jane has the perfect personal­
ity to be involved in student 
government, "she spends 
hours and hours working in the 
office, and I've never heard her 
complain yet." Fitzgibbon 
says that despite the fact that 
And why are 
, I 
~cjt 

""''l!if:t\\ l; ·~~j '" 
The happy couple shares a quite moment on the romantic Notre Dame 
Jane was "quiet at first," she 
has become a social force on campus; she has attended tail­gaters, the bars. SYR's, Thursday night bowling, and even a few parties where she 
has been known to lose her 
head. Fitzgibbon attributes 


Photo courtesy of Moira Delker 



Jane's popularity to her outgo­ing nature, "She's a lot of 
fun and a great dancer (though she doesn't like to lead). She 
puts Janet Jackson to shame." 
Even though Jane seemed to 
be happy, friends sensed that 
there was a void in her life -­
she missed Dick. 
And Dick missed Jane. Since she left for Notre Dame, he had kept himself busy worldng 
in department stores, but none the personals of The Observer in order to keep the name alive between them. During this time, Dick was secretly moonlighting at Good­will in order to save money for a ring. Then, last week he pro­
BELOVED·J-ANE:·;·AM.NOw ceRTAIN 
THAT 1 CAN MOT uvE WITHOUT You. YOU ARE IN MY EVERY THOUGHT. 

Of the Other girls in the Win-~~ DREAM. AND BREATH. MY EM(). dows made him feel as alive as ht TJONs TOWARD You HAVE BLOS-
our SOMED INTO AN ETERNAL FLOWER 
Jane COUld. Then, when neither of the 
~~;me~~~~ so~~! ~n~~o:a;;, 
they met on the road trip to the University of Michigan. In Ann Arbor both Dick and Jane realized how deeply they needed each other. Despite the fact that some people have accused the two of being "stiff," "plastic," and "un­responsive to others," Dick and Jane have a fire between them that can only find release in words. After the weekend they began to write to each other in 
Attention Features Writers 
There will be two meetings on Tuesday~ September 29 and Wednesday~ Sep­tember 30 in the Library Auditorium from 4-5 p.m. Both meetings are ab­solutely mandatory for new and old writers. 
OFLOVE.YOURFAmtFULSEAVANT, QICI( 
~Nei ..;;a:v.......
....NA..ro....1...j..........o 
_'!Y
EJ posed to Jane, and she imme­diately accepted. Their whirlwind courtship is at an end, and they will both be married next Saturday. 
Now their lives are filled with planning the wedding; "Dick and Jane want to share their happiness with all of the stu­dents today on the Fieldhouse Mall. They're going to be ser­


-

t 
paignlng for senior class presi­climax Saturday with the dent last year, Diane Fitzgibbon weddlngless reception which came up with the idea of a promises to be the social event weddlngless reception. of the season. Dick and Jane 
say that students can go in "Someone asked for a Bachelor groups rather than in couples, party as well as a reception. because students can meet This naturally led to a other people. A semi-formal bachlorette party, engagement dance complete with wine and party, rehearsal dinner and beer will be held In two loca­mass." Fitzgibbon explains the tions. The first three hundred evolution of Dick and Jane, students to buy tickets will go "We thought It would be funny to Mitchell's Indiana Club; the to have some people to actu­next three hundred and fifty ally get married. Since none of will be going to Knights of Co­us really wanted to get lumbus Hall. Transportation married, we decided to get will be provided by school someone who would." Since buses adorned with cans and Dick and Jane came to toilet paper. The first bus will campus, they have become the leave the main circle at 9 p.m. focus of much attention. and will continue to run all 
TOM MCDONALD ture. Although Chicago's"People love them. They have night. Tickets cost $7 and will play was crisp and the
ac.c.ent writer sound in the arena first rate, been flocking to the office to be on sale Monday and Tues­
meet them. Student Activities day in the class office from 4 
M
ore people showed up the band lacked the spon­
has really been great. All of the to 7 p.m. 
for Monk Malloy's taneity and the unabashed,secretaries have come down to presidential inauguration at free-form song variation that see them," says Fitzgibbon. 
the ACC Wednesday after­Chicago's audience has
I ~Av-1 

grown to expect. The band,
In celebration of Dick and noon than at the Chicago on the last leg of Its Chicago
Jane's engagement. the senior concert appearing on the class has declared Sept. 28 to same stage on Friday night. 18 tour, did not possess
~...:'~--=-~= l

Oct. 3 to be Wedding Week. #ou I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU PASo The popular new president enough energy to keep 
SIONATELY YOUftB, 

JANE outdrew one of pop music's people's attention. Many au­
Festivities begin today at 4 most successful acts, and dience members sat through
p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall ······························································· one can only wonder what the first set with the enthusi­
with a wedding cake ceremony. 
To 41h Floor K"'*" Alter our Michige_.end 're _,.joining MilHow aboo would have happened if asm one would reserve for
There will be an engagement ting 81 L Monk had a guitar strapped watching the Bark confirma­
party Tuesday night at 9 p.m. around his neck at the in­tion hearings on television.
at the Senlor!Aiumni Club, and auguration. The roof of the
Wednesday night Chips will arena surely would have The second half of thehold a Bachelorette bash with Despite the fact that Jane is
Photo courtesy of Moira Delker 
been raised with excitement. show was a marked im­no cover charge for ladies. getting so much attention from South Bend-Mishawaka provement of the first. Withvlng wedding cake from 4 p.m. Thursday Is the boys' night out the men of Notre Dame, Dick baby boomers comprised the required playing of the to 6 p.m." says Fitzgibbon. with a Bachelor party at the remains unfazed. According to most of Chicago's audience, oldies under their belt,The weddlngless reception has Linebacker Lounge from 9 p.m. Fitzgibbons, "Dick is very se­perhaps rounding off their Chicago's band membersbeen a campus tradition for ta 2 a.m. Friday, Dick and Jane cure in the relationship," says evening after a pleasant din­rolled up their sleeves,several years. In the past the get together for the Rehearsal Fitzgibbon "He's the strong ner at Bob Evans. Few Notre greased their horn valves,event was held during Senior Dinner at Jeremiah Sweeeney's silent type and doesn't mind all Dame-St. Mary's students turned up the amps, andWeek and was essentially a from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. with a of the attention that Jane has turned out for the show, swilled a shot of Jackcocktail party. While cam-free buffet. Things come to a been gettinA." 
probably discouraged by the Daniels. They were finally $ 15 ticket price. ready to play. Scheff, the
~~~..........-· 

Chicago divided its pro­lead singer, came Into his gram into two parts own, making up for his lack­separated by a twenty min­luster first set by spitting out ute Intermission. The band some distinctive vocals to explained that Part One some of the newer material would feature a hit parade off Chicago's last two al­of their most popular songs bums. Guitarist Bill of the past. while Part Two Champlin was Impressive, would focus on the band's cranking out some gut­more recent material. They wrenching riffs, and the opened the show with a band's trademark horn sec­jazzed up version of their tion was sonlcally sound. recently re-recorded hit "25 Or 6 To 4" from Chicago 18, Chicago clearly felt more 
their latest album. The comfortable with Its new ma­remainder of Part One con­terial. including "Stay the sisted primarily of medleys Night." "Hard Habit to of the band's oldies includ­Break." and "Will You Still ing "Saturday In the Park." Love Me." "Searchln' So Long." "Wish­The previously reserved au­ing You Were Here," and dience got onto Its feet. and "Color My World." some sporadic dancing 
The band proceeded broke out. The recital was through the first set in such turning into a concert. 
.. 

a controlled, rehearsed fas­Despite a modest turnout. 
hion that one would have Chicago had a good time on had a better time listening stage. to their greatest hits tape l)uring the second set the through a Walkman in the band clearly demonstrated library. Jason Scheff, Its ability to produce slickly the vocalist who replaced crafted pop arrangements the popular Peter Cetera, on stage. Chicago appreci­
-
appeared almost uni­ated its audience and recipr­nterested, clearly showing ocated with a more than ex­that he did not enjoy singing pected two-and-a-half hours material which he had no of music. It's too bad the part in creating. band turned down the Ob­
The repeated medleys server's invitation for an 
-
were an insult to the audi­after-concert cocktail at the ence, and t~ playing of Senio!IAiumni Club. Maybe these songs appeared al­the DJ would have played most as an obligatory "Color World." 



____________________________________________________________________________________________. 
-
Business
page 10 Monday, September 28, 1987 
... 
--
Who's the richest? 
It seems that two biggest business magazines cannot agree on how many billionaires there are in the United States and Japan. In its July 27 issue, Fortune reported that the U.S. trailed Japan in billionaires 21 to 22. Forbes came back on Oct. 5, and put the U.S. ahead of Japan by a score of 40 to 
24. Then Fortune's issue a week later put the total of U.S. billionaires at 47, Japan 4. 
"Obviously, Fortune is a little confused," said a Forbes reporter, "but we have never changed our estimates." For­tune could not be reached for comment, but suggested, however, in the story that there was some difficulty in un­covering hidden fortunes. 
The richest businessman, according to Forbes, is Yoshiaki Tsutsumi from Japan. He controls a $70 billion empire and has a personal fortune of over $20 billion. A Business Briefs tip on getting there: buy real estate in Japan. Almost all Japaneses billionaires acquired their status by shrewdly buying land. 

Wholihan and Murray 
Business Briefs 
Recently an employment brochure was being distributed at a local Taco Bell. On the cover, four smiling, attractive models beckoned prospective employees with bright expres­sions that said, "Come on, this is fun!" The brochure promised a great group, not only to work with, but to be your best friends as well. It also promised frequent raises. A girl behind the counter had this to say about frequent raises: "I have worked here for four months." No raise yet. 
As for the supposed great group of people to work with, well... Taco Bell has some problems. The shifts can run as late as 5:00a.m. and are mostly limited to meal hours. Taco Bell is also a favorite spot for obnoxious party-goers, always fun to deal with at 2:00a.m. on a Friday night. 
With a complex menu that keeps expanding, polyester uni­forms, very low wages, and all that grease, one is amazed that Taco Bell has any workers at all. Needless to say, Taco Bell has a hard time retaining quality workers, let alone models like the ones pictured in their brochure. In the words of one anonymous former Taco Bell employee, "That place was Taco Hell." 


TV Fortunes 

Knollwood Country Club 
is looking for part-time waiters and waitresses for the formal dining rooms and banquets. 
Can virtually guarantee $6.001tr. no experience is necessary, wiJI train. must be able to work weekends and through the holiday 
season. Call Tony at 277-1541 to set up an appointment or apply in person between .3 and 5 p.m. Tues-f'rL 
Knollwood Is located at 1663.} Baywood Ln. ()List off Grape Road) 
eooccococcooaccooocoooooccococco~ 
A rose by any other name: business monikers changing 
By BRIAN P. MURRAY Business writer 

Last year was a record year for corporate name changes. Over 1300 companies empha­sized their change in image by adopting a name that sym­bolized their new direction and purpose. 
However, many of the names 
represent  cutsie  buzzwords,  
made  by  joining  two  other  
names.  

Take Unisys, for example. 
After Burroughs and Sperry merged, the employees were asked to submit names. From thousands of entries comes Unisys, an obvious suggestion about the merger, synergy, and the "strength of two," as stated in their ad campaign. 
An even worse example is Trinova, the new name for Libby-Owens-Ford. 
Though many people did not know what Libby-Owens-Ford made, it sure sounded like a lot. Fruit, glass, cars? A great business name deserving respect. 
But Trinova means nothing. The change in names is fairly obvious: tri, meaning three, and nova, suggesting a star. Since Tristar was taken, Trinova was chosen. 
As if there aren't enough star companies already, along comes Navistar, a rebirth of old International Harvester. 
International Harvester was once a mighty industrial com­pany. But in these Yuppie times, heavy industry is out. Cheese and wine and cute busi­ness quips like Navistar are in. 
UAL jumped on the band­wagon when it felt that United Airlines did not describe its hotel and rental car operations. From alliance and aegis comes Allegis. 
Two words, one stupid, meaningless name. The stock price fell almost ten percent on the announcement of the new name. 
Of course, some companies have justifiable reasons for changing their name, espe­cially when they diversify. 
USX needed to shed the steel image of US Steel when they diversified into energy. 
USX at least rejected "Maxus" and "Amcon", both whimpy names. In addition, USX took its name from its stock exchange symbol, a 
move that appreciates the real reason for corporate America. Combining words or sounds can have its dangers. 
Houston Natural Gas and In­terNorth almost picked the name Enteron for the merged company. Enteron is another word for the digestive system, from the mouth to the other end. Though the words fit, i.e. gas and enter north (exit south), the company chose En­ron. 
Exxon almost chose the name Enco, which means stalled car in Japanese. 
Fortunately, the mistake was caught in time. 
In reviewing the recent name change trends, a simple process becomes apparent. Take two syllables that sym­bolize a forward looking com­pany of growth and strength but above all else, the result must sound cute. 
Southland Corp., owner of 7­11 stores, would become Slurpco. 
Finally, this writer suggests a new name for the University. 
"Endee", signifying the hope that college will come to an end. 

U.S., IMF disagree on deficit 
Associated Press 

Treasury Secretary James Baker gave an optimistic view of the world economy Sunday after a gloomier set of predic­tions was announced by the In­ternational Monetary Fund. 
The IMF's "World Economic Outlook" said sluggishness early this year roused concern that activity would slow down this year and next. 
It added that this concern was increased by large surpluses and deficits in trade and growing friction on the issue, fears of a further decline of the dollar in Europe and Japan, low prices for goods produced in the Third World and the decline of bank lending to the area. 
"In the United States we ex­pect real growth in excess of 3 percent for both 1987 and 1988," Baker told the IMF's Interim Committee, which makes its major decisions. 
"Other countries are also putting into place policies to promote global growth and a reduction of external im­balances. Japan, for example, is moving to implement a stimulative fiscal package and tax reform, both of which should support domestic demand" according to Baker. 
Baker's statement was made to a closed-door meeting . 
The IMF, meanwhile, issued a report saying the U.S. budget deficit would shrink signifi­cantly this year but will rise through 1990, despite predic­tions to the contrary by the Reagan administration. 
"There continues to be un­certainty about the timing and extent of future fiscal correc­tions because compromises be­tween the U.S. administration and Congress on ways to cut deficits have proved to be ex­tremely difficult to achieve," the IMF staff said in its annual economic outlook issued for meetings of the 151-nation IMF and the World Bank in Wash­ington this week. 
The report was referring to the conflicting fiscal positions staked out by President Reagan and congressional Democrats. 
Reagan steadfastly opposes tax increases and is trying to stave off military spending cuts demanded by the Demo­cratic majority in Congress. 
Compared to a 1986 U.S. budget deficit of $220.7 billion, the IMF staff published a table showing estimated deficits of $163 billion for fiscal 1987 en­ding this week, $173 billion for 1988 and $179 billion for 1990. 
The Reagan administration projects the deficits at $158 bil­lion for 1987, $123 billion for 1988 and $90 billion for 1990. 
The IMF said its estimates were based on no further changes in the U.S. tax system or spending programs. 
The report noted "signs of weakness in private consump­tion in the United States" after four years of providing the en­gine for economic recovery. 
It predicted that growth in 
U.S. domestic demand would slow to an annual rate of 1.75 percent to 2 percent in 1987-88, compared to 3.5 percent to 4 percent for 1985-86. 
Improved export competi­tiveness should stimulate U.S. economic growth and weaker domestic consumption "should be largely, if not fully, offset by a sizable increase in U.S. real net exports," the IMF said. 


Eye Exams

ProfessionalVtSion 
Large Selection of Frames

Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
An Types of Contacts 

20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1635 N. Ironwood  1341 Portage  
277-1161  234-2400  
South of U.S. 23  Martins Shopping Center  

--------------------------------------------------------~------------------~­
Monday, September 28, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
NO-Purdue Box Score 

Giants clinch tie; NL East race tightens 
three-plus innings and got a no­Mets 12, Pirates 3 Sunday to stay alive in the Na­
Associated Press 
decision. tional League East race. 
s-turdily'• G•m• 

Notre Dame  10  7  13  13  44  
Purdue  0  17  3  0  20  
Scoring  

NO -GRADEL 25-yard field goal 
NO -JOHNSON 6-yerd run (GRADEL kick) 
PU -SCHUMACHER 4-yard paae from DOWNING (BRIGGS kick) 
PU -WILLIAMS 20-yard paaa from DOWNING (BRIGGS kick) PU -BRIGGS 18-yard field goal NO -JOHNSON 1 -yerd run (GRADEL kick) PU • BRIGGS 50-yerd field goal NO -JOHNSON 8-yerd run (GRADEL kick) NO -BROWN 49-yerd paaa from 
ANDRYSIAK (GRADEL kick) ND • GRADEL 28-yerd kick NO • GRADEL 44-yerd kick NO • SOU1'H,ALL 57 -yerd Interception relum 
(GRADEL kick) NO PU 
25 18

Flrsl downa 
87 25

Rushing at1emp18 
288 87 Net Yards Passing 
Net Yards Rushing 
208 178 Passea comp-altempted 
7·14 17·38 
1 2

Had Intercepted 
478 283 Fumblea-loet 
Total Net Yard& 
5-2 2·1 
8·80 3·27

Penaftlea-yards 
3-37.3 6-42.3 lndlvtdu•l L.uden RUSHING -Notre Dame: Johnaon 14-69; Green 14-68; Brooks 8-48; Purdue: Myles 5-42; Medlock 13·39; PASSING· Notre Dame: Andryalak 6-13, 170; Aloe 1-Hl, 38; Purdue: Downing 11·27-1, 106; Maacheck 4-6-0, 58; RECEIVING • Notre Dame: Johnson 2-90; Brown 2-80; Purdue: Scales 2-38; Herdy 3-32; Attendance -88,526 
Punta-average 
ATLANTA -The San Fran­cisco Giants clinched a tie for the National League West title Sunday, spoiling Phil Niekro's farewell game by routing the Atlanta Braves 15-6 as Candy Maldonado hit a grand slam and drove in six runs. 
San Francisco cut its magic number to one over second­place Cincinnati, which beat Houston 4-2. The Giants can clinch their first playoff berth since 1971 by winning Monday night in San Diego, or if the Reds lose to Atlanta in Cincin­nati. 
The Giants also put a disap­pointing end on Niekro's career. The 48-year-old knuck­leballer signed to pitch one final game for the Braves, but he wound up allowing five runs on six hits with six walks in 
Niekro, who failed to hold a 5-0 lead, left the mound with his head bowed to a four-minute standing ovation, his seventh of the day from 26,019 fans on At­lanta's final home date of the season. 
Reds 4, Astros 2 
CINCINNATI-Buddy Bell's two-run triple highlighted a four-run eighth inning Sunday that carried Cincinnati past the Houston Astros 4-2 Sunday. 
Cincinnati rallied in the 
eighth off starter Bob Knepper, 
8-17, who took a three-hitter 
into the inning. Singles by Dave 
Collins, Dave Concepcion and 
Tracy Jones scored Cincin­
nati's first run and Knepper left 
after inducing Dave Parker to 
force Jones at second. 
NEW YORK-Bob Ojeda won his first start since coming off the disabled list on Sept. 1 after missing three months, and Kevin McReynolds drove in four runs as the New York Mets defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates 12-3 Sunday. 
The Mets now trail first­place St. Louis by two-and-a­half games in the National League East. 
Expos 5, Phillies 3 
PHILADELPHIA Tim Raines hit a bloop double that was lost in the sun and scored on a wild pitch to break an eighth-inning tie, and the Montreal Expos went on to beat the Philadelphia Phillies 5-3 

Montreal now trails first­place St. Louis by three games. The Expos start a four-game series with the Cardinals Tues­day night. 
Cubs 7, Cardinals 3 
CHICAGO -Bob Dernier, a last-minute replacement in the starting lineup, had a lead-off home run, double, and scored twice to lead the Chicago Cubs over St. Louis 7-3 Sunday as the Cardinals' magic number for clinching the National East title remained at five. 
The loss, coupled with New York's 12-3 victory over Pit­tsburgh, reduced St. Louis' lead to two-and-a-half games gave last-place Chicago a league-leading 203 homers this season. 
n.a.-..Notw. o.me office, loc8led on the third floor of L.aFortune Slu­dmt c.m., ~cluelfled edwertlelng from 10 Lm. unlit 4 p.m., Monday thn:lugll Friday. n. a.-w. Saint Mery'1l offlc:e, located on the third floor of ~Collge Centw, accepts c!Malfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday ttwoug1t Friday. Deedllne for next-day claalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claulfleda mull
Classifieds be ~. either In person Of by mall. The ch..-ge Ia 10 cents per five ct.:.....per day. 
NOTICES 
SPEE·DEE WORDPROCESSING O· 237·1949; H: 277-8131 
MARISSA'S TYPING. WORD PRO­
CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE 
TO CAMPUS 277·1051 DAY; 277-2724 
EVE 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPJNGWORO PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Rece1ve $5 off $50 or more purchase of your le<lbooks al Pandora's Bookslore. localed on 808 Howard St. at Noire Dame Ave. Were open 7 days a week I 0 00 a.m -5·30 
W1th. rece1ve an extra 10% off on pur· 
chases of used paperbacks (m sfock) at 
Pandora's Bookslore. localad at 808 
Howard St. al Naira Dame Ave We're 
open 7 days a week' 10:00 a.m -5:30 
p.m 
FREE RAFFLE F5Manlyn Monroe Posters F4from The Snite Museum ex­hibit F5LIFE.F4The Second Decade t 946·55 Fill out entry forms in lhe Museum Shop Draw1ng will be on Sun­day. Ocl t 1 2;00 pm 
Just before k1ckoff of the M1ch1gan Slale game a llghl be1ge older model Thunder· b1rd (or s1m1Jar car) slruck a new black F~reb~rd The cars were 1n the parking lol behind The Huddle The F~rebird was parked, lhe olher car was leav1ng lhe park1ng lot. dnven by a woman w1lh medium lenglh blond hair. A reward will be g1ven Ia anyone who supplies 1nlor­mat1on which leads to the correct ldentl­fiCallon of lh1s dnver Please call 272­
6823 
TYPING-WORD PROCESSING. REASONABLE RATES. CALL PAT 234-5526. 
8'ewARE........a;;··..···;:·;;e··......el:uiiiv·E 
ED... PSYCHO GERVIN Ill 
........ 

LOST/FOUND 
FOUND ... SET OF KEYS AFTER THE GAME ·ROOM AND CAR KEYS. VOL CAN FIND THEM AT LAFORTUNE LOST & FOUND 
Loaf· Blue Bud Light keychain on way back from game. Call Joe at 1748. 
LOST GLASSES 
WHEN ON DAY OF NO VS MS GAME 
WHERE: SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 
SMC AND ND BOOKSTORE WHY 
HAVEN'T YOU BEEN TRASHED 
BEFORE? IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 
SUE 284-5067 
LOST:BI~~k wallel be!Ween PW and Grace Wed. n1ght. Call Howard 1658. $REWARD$ 
FOUND: JOHN SHEA'S ID ---CALL LEMAN FRONT DESK 
LOST: HORSESHOE SHAPED 
KEYRING ON SOUTH QUAD AT MAL­
LOY PICNIC. RING HAS 7 KEYS AND 
IS OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 
REWARD/II CALL BILL £4022. 
.. ··•····················•••··················· LOST: Thureday night. set of keys on Beaver Cleaver keychaln. If found please call Kim 2615. 
LOST...LOST ... LOST 
I LOST MY WHITE WINDBREAKER 
AND THE GIRL THAT GAVE IT TO ME 
IS GOING TO KILL ME WHEN SHE 
FINDS OUT IT SAYS "SPBC SECUR­
ITY" ON IT. IF YOU HAVE IT OR FIND 
IT, PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL THANKS. 
JIM: 1215 

LOST!!II!I!!I Noire Dame Women's Class R1ng! Pelile nng. gold Wllh blue slone. The Initials MKT ·sa are 1nscribed 1ns1de the ring. II found. PLEASE call Kale at £2904. Thank You!!!!!!l 
FOR RENT 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-368¥.!88-0955 
3 BEDROOM APTM BEAUTIFUL RENOVATED HOME 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS 233 6298 
SEEKING APARTMENT-MATE TO SHARE SUNNY.FRESHL Y DECORATED 2 BDRM. FLAT IN HIS­TORIC HOME 2 11.1 M FROM CAMPUS. $225 INCLUDES ALL, EVEN LAUNDRY. CALL MARY: 2335065 OR 2881202 
MOVE IN NOW! FREE RENT UNTIL IM5'87. Two separate 2 bedroom apart­ments available, each with kitchen, lull balhroom and large living room. Beds and dressers furnished. Renl includes all utilities. Call 232·9239. 
WANTED 
AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 70 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. 
NEED RIDE TO D.C. AREA OCT. 3 OR 
4. WILL SPLIT COSTS AND FATHER CHILDREN. CALL BILL AT 283·3549 
FOR SALE 
1976 PONTIAC ASTRE. $500 OR BEST OFFER. WILL RUN. 289·2478. 
ice skates 277-4576 

........................ 1977 LeMans wagon. 400cc, 4-barrel carb. with aulo. trans.. runs good but un­fortunately body needs work. Aflec­llonately known as "The Bomb". $200. Call 234-5558 after 5 p.m. 
TICKETS 
NEED 3 OR 4 USC GA'S 
CALL SHAWN AT £2235, OR £2281 
NEED 3 GA TIX FOR USC CALL JOHN AT 2924 
WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TIX. 213· 422-2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. 
.....Neiiil'B'osroN··c:c;i:L:iiaii"a;:;;..·· 
CALL ANN AT 284-5216 
SEX I know it's lhe oldest trick in the book, but it still got your attention. I need 2 atuda lor USC. Pete ·3767 or 1284 
................................................................ 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326 
I WILL GIVE MY BODY OR EVEN MONEY FOR 2 BC GA'S CALL JOHN AT 1980 
I WILL GIVE ANYTHING FOR 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 BC GA PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 1654 IT WILL BE WORTH YOUR WHILE 
BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S I NEED 4 BC GA'S. CALL FRANK -3104 .......................................................... YOI Really need USC GA's BIG TIME lor the folks. Please call Jim at 2474 or 2457. 
NEED 2 GAs or STUD. TJX FOR BAMA Call Rachel <2930 ..................... 
WILL TRADE 2 USC TIX FOR 2 BAMA TIX (GA). CALL KATIE 404-257-8588. 
TWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA­TION ··TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US CQ MAn 263-3549 
RICH ALUM NEEDS SO CAL !'TICKETSII 233 6298 
Want to trade 2 U.S.C. lor 2 B.C. lies: call Paul 277-6399 
HELP!!! Must have 3 GA's lor USC! $$$ WILL PAY$$$ 
Please call ROBIN <3832 ............. ., ...... I NEED 4 UCS GA'S CALL 283-2987 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 NAVY TIX (WILL TRADE USC TIX) CALL 2545 
................. ·······-.. WILL SWAP 2 GA BAMA TIX FOR 2 GA BC TJX. 239-5740 
HELP! I NEED 4 GA'S FOR NAVY! CALL DON X2041 AND WE'LL TALK BUCKS. 
HHHEEELLLPPPI This poor maiden in distress needs 2 GA'a lor NAVY. Call NANCY at 1284. 
i'tiAvii·~~~;··~;;;;i:~·;;;~;·:;~~·;;;~~;;;;;·:;~~ 
lost in laundry. II you'd like to see them alive, I NEED 2 GA'a lor Booton or AI· abamal Pete £ 3787 or 1264 
Need 1 ticket to any home game except Navy. Will pay good$ Call Pat 287-6654 
Looking lor extra money? I need 2 stud. or GA's for USC GAME. WILL PAY BIG MONEYI Call Tom x3248. 
wAN·;:··i:ARGe···;;·iiaFirs?···s·iii:i:..t.1E 
BAMA GA TICKETSffl CALL ED !:1 826 
....................... NAVY-NEED 4 GA'S OR STUD'S. WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL 
JOHN x1867 
································································ 
NEED 6 USC GA'S-·WILL PAY $$$$1 CALL 213· 721 ·4050 
NEED 7 USC GA'S PLEASE HELP CALL PAT 289-4635 
Pin TIX PLEASEIIIIIIANY NUM· BER,(nearly)ANY PRICE.CALL STEVE X-3066 $$$I'M DESPERATE!I!I 
DESPE'RATELY·-~iEE'KiN'G ..1..GA..FOR 
USC. DAD IS COMING FROM CALIF. PLEASE CALL $$ JOHN £1709 
j''NE'ED"EiO'STON COLLECiE''TiCKET'S 
AND USC TICKETS. AS MANY AS YOU CAN SPARE. PLEASE CALL 3257 AND ASK FOR BRIAN. 

GA'S WANTED ••• 2 USC AND 4 ALA­BAMA CALL BILL AT X3366 ANYTIME 
NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE ALA· BAMA GAME CALL DAVE AT 1598 ANYTIME AFTER 7PM 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WAKE UPI 

TC & CS: OK, I admit the rice krlapy squares were drugged. But an•wer these ques­tions lor me: Will the antl-chrtat be the victor? Is altzhelmera linked to chromosomal abnormality? How can akateboard-rtdlng be masochistic? If Observer men are the world's biggest aoclal problem, could an Observer wo­man be the answer? 
Jim. The answers to your quesllons are as follows: 
1. No 

2. 
Yes -didn't you read the column? 


3. 
Whoever said that you were masoc­hlsllc because you rode a skaleboard? 

4. 
Some problems are just beyond help. Yours truly, TC and CS. 


FAMOUS QUOTES 

"listen Eve, what HI was the first man on earth, then would you marry me?" Adlm from the Garden 
"Juliet, my heart beats ever laster at your name. So marry me and make our souls the same." Rom.o from • you knoweo. 
"Yo Adrian, I was... uh wondrlng II you ... like wouldn mind marryln me too much?" Rocky from "Rocky II" 
"Suzy, 1. .• uh was hoping that. .. um ... well I was thinking that... ulp... I was... I'm goln' to ask you OK? Will you marry me?" DAVE COWDEN from "B-day Surprise" 
So II you gel a chance, congratulate Dave Cowd•n and Suzy Dyhtw•kl ...they got engaged on Frlday. 
................................................................
......................... 
LA·LA·LA-LA·LA-LA·LA·LA·LA WARNING WARNING WARNING LA-LA Ia loose and lt'o her BIRTHDAYIII Yea, Notre Dame, It's LA·LA LAROSE's 20thIll If you have pitchers lo donate, presents to give or Iovin' to offer, 

SHE's YOUR'alll Call x3818 or atop by 429 Lewis. with all our love and beat wishes for a happy b-day, J.B., Kate, Steph & Nan 
Le·Le's birthday? Scary thought, isn'l It? Happy Birthday from your HPC buddies in Alumni Hall. 
1 G.A. licket needed lor the USC game $$$. Call 284-4372. ....................... .. .................... ' .. ARE YOU TIRED OF LIFELESS MUSIC ?? Lei us Inject a dose of fun into your social event... .. Call the PARTY DOCTORS-Dan at 3626-Mike at 3413 
NEED 2 NAVY GA CALL CHRIS 233· 2784 
..................................... 

D Take a walk on I he wild side C 4 lun Howard girls looking lor 4 fun guys (package deal only) lor SYR Oct. 10 No strings attached, call X2484 & live a little! 
GIW: I believe we have eslablished the fact thai I don't hate band. And now, the question is... do we have a date Friday night? AND will you wear your hat? PBH 
................................................................ 
CAl & K You can tell you've been together 2 years when ...... . 
1. 
At lormals you go to sleep immediately (& I do mean immedialely) 

2. 
Jo can have heart Ia hearts wilh "MOM" & "DAD" 

3. 
Cal needs a single to suit her purposes (but is she ever there??) 

4. 
No-one else has a clue what K is trying to say except Cai 

5. 
When K's mom calls him at Cai's room 

6. 
When friends invite one and always assume lhe other will follow We LOVE you bothll!!l!!!!l CONGRATS 11111111111111 


·US­
K I WANT YOUR "LOVE" 
c 
WANTED! 4 BC GA'S ... WILL PAY ANY PRICE AND GIVE DIRECTIONS TO A 20 KEG OC PARTY.. CALL 232-9541­BILL AFTER 6. 
TO: PAULA, MARY, KARA, LINDA, POPI, LYNN, AND CHERYL: THANK­YOU FOR MAKING MY 19TH BIRTHDAY GREATII I LOVED THE ROSES, BALLOONS, CARDS, AND CAKE. I AM VERY LUCKY TO HAVE SUCH SPECIAL FRIENDSIII LOVE YOU ALL, KATHY 
I need a ride to Madison, Wis. on Oct. 2 or 3 will pay lor gas call Gretchen 284-5195 
U2 TIX For Nov. 1 concert In Indianapolis. Call 2084 -Best offer 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, ROB WAL TERS NOW YOU CAN BUY US ALL A BEER FROM ALL THE GUYS 
HEY BABE, This Sunday, I'll bnng the toothpaste if you bring the SADDLE II 
.....HI:Y t;Aii:ij;j·:;·IUt:lt:l::i YOUR BEAUTIFUL II HAPPY ANNIVERSARYI!I YOUR NOT-SO-SECRET ADMIRER 
To my fellow stargazer: It's been too long -Saturday nile we'll have to look up to the sky. I wonder II the stars'JI look as good lrom Glenview? 
Me 
MAKE MONEY, NOT LOVE. 
DON'T FORGETIII WEDNESDAY FROM 4-5:30PM IN THE LOUNGE OF FARLEY 
SOCIOLOGY SOCIALIZING ALL UNDERGRAD. MAJORS & FAC­ULTY 
AnENTION STUDENTS TRAVELMRE LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE NEW HOURS MONDAY ONLY 630AM·700PM PHONE NUMBER 239-7080 
JACQUE--Happy 20th Birthday, pumpkin! One more year and you can reveal your true nature. I LOVE YOUIII --John 
FR. JAMES BURTCHAELL WILL LEAD AN INFORMAL DISCUSSION ON WED­NESDAY, SEPT. 30. AT 7:00PM. THIS EVENT WILL TAKE PLACE IN HIS ROOMS IN HOLY CROSS HALL ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS. THEOL· OGY MAJORS AND OTHER INTER­ESTED STUDENTS ARE INVITED TO AnEND. 
Attention! Mad Dog likes smok1ng hog. ........................ ................... .. Lile'll be bad II I don't get tix lor Mom and Dad 
NEED BC G.A.• 
AS MANY AS POSSIBLE If you got'am, I want'aml Pie..• c•ll SMile at 284-5447 
Do you need anyone lo sit on your gar­bage can In the bathroom? Call Mike McCleary 
LOOK OUT MOREAU "RAVISH RANDY RENTNER CLUB" now forming ... Jock them doors! 
.......................................... 
OH MY GOD,ONLY ONE MORE DAY UNTIL JULIA'S BIRTHDAY. . 
BERRIESIII 
TO H.M.W.H.C: HAS THE TERM "SYR" TAKEN ON A NEW MEANING? I.N.A 
One reason why beer 1s better than wo­men: You can dnnk beer 31 days a month. --brought to you by the H.M.W.H.C. 
JEN FREIDHOFF • -only five more days and then Chicago will never be the same... 
Happy 18th birthday wishes to Stephame LAVERNE Lester Love, your friends Gerald and Anthony. Have dinner on us lonighl. 
HS of PE-TAKE OFF THE MAKE-UP. WE WANT TO SEE WHATTOU REALLY LOOK LIKE 
HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY JULIE! FROM EVERYONE IN LEWIS I NORTH 
FIRST IT WAS ALUMNI THEN CAME HOLY CROSS. ZAHM, STANFORD, FLANNER WHAT DORM WILL BE NEXT? JOIN THE REAL MEN ON CAMPUS: THE ONES WHO HATE WOMEN. 
POST GRAD OPPORTUNITIES DAY OCT. 1. 12·4 p.m. et the C.S.C. 
........................ SENIOR REFLECTION GROUP Sign-up Deadline: Oct. 8 at the CSC What Is It? 
Another reason why beer 1s better than women: A frigid beer is a good one. 
ANN-DOG RUTH Congratuletlons, you llnelly made the big time. You're now In tM claaalll8da HALL-OF-FAME. 
CHRIS BILLETDEAUX turns 21 In 5 days. Gosh, she doesn't look lhal old. 
DEATH TO THE CHIGGER! DEATH TO THE CHIGGER 
CATHY, W•ff h•r•'• your clanlfl8d a• promiMd. Th8nk you for IM grNIIIme 1..1 night. Hope you had •• much fun ••I did. 
M 
P.S.: K"'?,:~~~~!!!~..~~.~~.an•l• 
Admirer. I'm glad you really liked my shorts. I think that's really neat But I don't know you and that really sucks, so come out lrom under your sheets. I like to pray, everyday. Thai has been my mot­to. So, meet me tonight, out of sighl. 6:45, at the Grotto. Kelly. 
Dan: Gee, I'm so proud to be your son. t couldn'l ask lor a better latherthan you. Thanks. 
Tim 



·~-~---­
The Observer 

The Observer I Greg Kohs Irish free safety Corny SouthaU turns on the steam for touchdown In Saturday's 44-20 win over Purdue. Game the final leg of his 57-yard Interception return for a stories begin on page 16. 
AL Roundup 
Detroit salvages one from Jays 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -Kirk Gibson's 13th-inning single drove in the go-ahead run and the Detroit Tigers stayed close in the American League East race by beating the Toronto Blue Jays 3-2 Sunday, averting a sweep in their four-game series. 
The Blue Jays' magic num­ber remained at five and their lead over the Tigers dropped to two-and-a-half games. The two teams finish the season with three games at Detroit next weekend. 
Jim Walewander started the 13th with a walk off Jose Nunez, 5-2, the fifth of six Toronto pitchers. W alewander went to second on Lou Whitaker's sacrifice and scored when Gib­son's soft fly ball bounced off the artificial turf and over cen­ter fielder Lloyd Moseby's head. 
Orioles 9, Yankees 5 

BALTIMORE -Rene Gon­zales broke a 5-5 tie with a double as the Baltimore Orioles rallied for five runs in the seventh inning to defeat the New York Yankees 9-5 Sunday and snap an eight-game losing streak. 
The rally came after the Orioles had fallen behind 5-3 in the top of the seventh by allow­ing three unearned runs on two errors by shortstop Cal Ripken Jr. 
Twins 8, Royals 1 

MINNEAPOLIS Kirby Puckett, Gary Gaetti and Kent Hrbek homered in Minnesota's Mariners 5, Rangers 3 five-run first inning and Bert Blyleven pitched a five-hitter Sunday as the Minnesota Twins SEATTLE -Pinch-hitter clinched at least a tie for the Dave Hengel's three-run American League West title homer off Mitch Williams in the with an 8-1 victory over the eighth inning gave the Seattle Kansas City Royals. Mariners a 5-3 victory over the 

Texas Rangers Sunday. It was the sixth consecutive The magic number is one for loss for the Rangers and third the Twins, who last won the AL straight win for Seattle.
West in 1970. 
Brewers 9, Red Sox 6Angels 11 , Indians 8 
MILWAUKEE-Robin Yount CLEVELAND Mark delivered a two-run single forMcLemore drove in four runs his tOOth RBI of the season,with a pair of bases-loaded capping a four-run sixth inning singles and Don Sutton earned Sunday that gave the Mil­
his 320th career victory in his first relief appearance since waukee Brewers a 9-6 victory 
over the Boston Red Sox.
1980 Sunday as the California Boston led 6-1 in the fifth and Angels defeated the Cleveland took a 6-3 advantage into theIndians 11-8. 
sixth behind rookie Jody Reed's 
Sutton, 10-11, who is in nth three RBI, but reliever Wes place on the all-time win list, Gardner walked the bases gave up three runs and four hits loaded and was replaced by in 4 1-3 innings. Bob Stanley, 4-15. 
~r··············..···#······················· FREE HAIRCUT, PERM, & 
COLOR 
Women needed for professional & fashion seminar to demonstrate the latest hairstyles & fashion. 
This is your chance for a great new look from a national hair designer. For further information call Vicki at Maly's. 
256_2033
Open 8:30-5 pm 

Johnson 
continued from page 16 
said even though the plays were successful, they were not a surprise. 
"We worked on that in prac­tice because Louisville did the same thing last week and we made some corrections late in the week," he said. "Those plays were · just blown coverages." 
Purdue may not have been surprised by the plays, btit Johnson said he was. 
"Purdue double-teamed Tim Brown the whole game and that opened things up for me," l)e said. "Tim is such a team player and he gave up his num­bers today for the team. I was surprised to see the ball so much today because it's not normally in the game plan, es­pecially for me to catch the ball out of the backfield so much." 
After Andrysiak fumbled on the first drive of the second half, the offense dominated, scoring four times and controll­ing the line of scrimmage. 
"(At halftime) we went over what we could run against them," said Irish center Chuck Lanza. "We knew that we could run many plays at will. It was just a matter of going out there and not defeating ourselves. We beat ourselves in the first half. It was just a matter of coming in here and saying 'hey, let's get together.' 
"You like to establish the run. No tricks. You know the ball's coming right up the middle. That's what a 4-3 
Monday, September 28, 1987 
defense is. You line up on that side and show us what you got. That's the way we like to play." 
That attitude was put to use when the Irish found them­selves down, 20-17, in the third quarter with the ball at their own nine. A screen to Green was good for 21 yards on the first play. Eleven straight run­ning plays put the ball in the end zone and Notre Dame would not trail again. Johnson, Green, Pernell Taylor and Tony Brooks consistently pounded into the Boiler­makers' defense to sustain the drive. 
Compared to that long, me­thodical drive, the next Irish scoring attack was completed in no time. Twenty-three seconds to be exact. 
Tim Brown, 'held' to 148 total yards, beat freshman Steve Jackson for a 49-yard touch­down after another long at­tempt to Johnson just missed. 
"We threw an out-and-up pass to Tim Brown early in the game and it was overthrown," said Holtz. "Brown said he could beat his defender on a down-and-up pattern pattern if he was given another chance. That's when he scored his touchdown." 
That gave the Irish a 31-20 lead that sealed the game. For the offense, the three miscues could not dim its best perfor­mance of the season. 
"They're good," said Purdue head coach Fred Akers. "They made the big play just enough to keep their drives alive. That kept our defense out on the field and then they really wore us down." 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
~ 

wr alow 
threshold 
ibrboredom... 
thrive at MCM, where responsibility has nothing to do with seniority. That goes for handling files, or actually having a hand in running this 80-year old general civil practice firm. 
So if you want more than a nice, quiet comer in the library, write us for details. Better yet, call Judith Grothe, our recruiting coordinator at 612-333-1341. 
lNSE 

Where young lawyers get plenty ofpractice. 
1600 TCF Tower 121 South Eighth Street Minneapolis MN 55402 

-------------------~--------~-----~--------~ 
Monday, September 28, 1987 
The Observer page 13 
,.. 

Invitational tests Irish tennis 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team received some good news and bad news during this weekend's individual­flight Irish Invitational at Courtney Courts. 
On the positive side, the Irish saw strong play from freshman Ce Ce Cahill and junior Natalie Illig for a second consecutive week, the recovery of fresh­man Anne-Marie Dega from in­jury and an encouraging debut performance from freshman Cathy Bradshaw. 
However, Notre Dame also suffered two major setbacks, as fourth-seeded sophomore Alice Lohrer and sixth-seeded sophomore Resa Kelly were sidelined for the rest of the fall season. Lohrer will undergo arthroscopic surgery on her knee this week, and Kelly will receive final word on her status tomorrow after reinjuring a knee on Sunday. Kelly was ahead, 6-3, 5-l, in her match before her knee gave out. 
"She (Kelly) had a ligament 
..~~-11!!!11-1111!1.---~~--~1!!!!1~~--~~~-. 
Notre eatre presents 
by Arthur Miller 
with Daniel Daily as Willy Loman directed by Father Arthur Harvey 
Wed., Oct. 7-Sat., Oct. 10 8:10P.M. 
Sunday, October 11 3:10P.M. · placed third in her singles flight. 
Washington Hall $6 Main floor $5 Balcony GA'S Lots (8) $4 Students/Senior Citizens (Wed., Thurs., Sun) Need USC GA'S 
Call MIKE LANIGAN

For MasterCard/Visa orders or information: 
(800) 621-2516

(219) 239-5957 noon-6 P.M. weekdays 
BIRTH ORDER and RELATIONSHIPS 
Wednesday, Sept. 30th 7:30 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
SOME ISSUES TO BE DISCUSSED INCLUDE: 
How birth order influences our perceptions and our choices. How birth order influences our interactions with our spouse. The evening will include a presentation, discussion, and 
(312) 943-7846 after 5 

MARRIAGE ENRICHMENT SERIES 
presents 

Tom Peterson, Ph.D. 
speaking on 

problem before, and now they think there's a cartilage prob­lem too," said Irish head coach Michele Gelfman. "We're hoping we'll have her back by January. 
"I give Alice the purple heart for the weekend," added Gelfman, "because she was hurting, and she didn't com­plain once. She didn't want to let the team down and her partner down. By the time we went to doubles play, she was hurting really bad." 
While Lohrer and Kelly be­came new names on Notre Dame's injured list, Cahill was busy adding names to her per­sonal list of victims. Proving her championship perfor­mance the previous weekend at the Midwest Invitational was anything but a fluke, Cahill blew past her four opponents to win her singles draw. Cahill won her first two matches by scores of 6-2, 6-0, and 6-1, 6-1, won 6-2, 6-0 in the semi-finals on Saturday, then blew past Purdue's Erica Adams in Sun­day's final, 6-2, 6-0. 
"She has more intensity than 
OFFICE OF 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
anyone I've ever seen and more determination than anyone I've ever seen," Gelfman said. "I didn't expect it to be quite so easy for her. Erica Adams is a ranked player. The scores weren't close, but it took about four games in the set for her to get into her rhythm." 
Cahill contributed to both Notre Dame championships over the weekend, as she teamed with sophomore Step­hanie Tolstedt to take the second-seeded doubles flight title. Cahill and Tolstedt fell be­hind 0-5 in the first set of the finals, and roared back to win the match 7-6, 6-0. 
"They were down 5-0, and I told them that I was going to watch some other matches and they'd have to settle this be­tween themselves," Gelfman said. "They were down 5-2 in the tiebreaker also. It was in­credible. They had so much momentum and adrenaline that they just destroyed them and ate them alive in the second set." 
Illig, who won her singles flight at the Midwest Invita­tional last weekend, took second this weekend. In the 
same bracket, Bradshaw placed third in her first taste of college competition, losing only to Illig in the semi-finals. Dega, who was out with an in­jury to her foot and a scratched cornea early in the season, also got her first experience of col­lege play. "For Natalie, it goes to show how she's improved her perfor­mance. She's gotten progres­sively better, and has held up very well in tight situations," said Gelfman. "l was very pleased with Bradshaw. She really rose to the occasion. Dega had a slow start this weekend, but finished up strong. I look for bright things from both of them." Notre Dame's other top finis­her was freshman Kim Pacel­la. The Toledo, Oh., native 

Sports Briefs 
The soccer team defeated Boston College Saturday, 5-0, and tied Wright State, 1-1, in the Wright State Invita­tional. Details appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Ob­server 
The golf team is at the halfway point of the 36-hole Indiana Intercollegiate Tournament in Zionsville, Ind. The Irish are currently in second place with a 316. Ball State is in first with a 304. Doug Giorgio led Notre Dame with a 76 in the first round, while Paul Nolta shot a 79. -The Observer 
The ski team will collect $100 deposits for anyone interested in the Christmas Trip to Telluride, Co., Wed­nesday, September 30, from 7-9 in the main lobby of LaFor­tune. Any questions, call J.P. at 271-9082. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for SMC intramurals co-ed flag football. For more information and sign-up forms contact Angela Athletic Facility at 284-5549. -The Observer 
Lyons Hall will hold its campus-wide volleyball tournament October 3-4 on Green Field. Proceeds will go to Logan Center. Sign up in the Dining Halls. -The Observer 
SMC basketball tryouts will begin Sunday, October 4, from 6-8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Play~rs must have a physical to try out. For more information, call 5548. -The Observer 
A Grace Hall freshman, Bob Allard, broke his collarbone in three places yesterday in interhall footba~ action against Off-Campus. He was treated at a local hospi­tal and is now recovering in the infirmiry. -The Observer 
Akers 
continued from page 16 
Akers said. "They were a little too much for us physically when they started pounding it at us. 
"I thought the two turning points were the interception (a Stan Smagala inteception after which the Irish scored on Johnson one-yard plunge) which tied the game and sent them in into halftime with some momentum. Then we regained the momentum, and they needed another (score). They got what seemed like a 100-yard drive. They engineered a very good offensive drive. I think that took a lot out of us, and showed us some of their depth." 
The Irish opened the scoring on a Ted Gradel 25-yard field goal in the first quarter. They then went up 10-0 on Johnson's first touchdown run, this one for six yards, to cap off an 11­play, 81-yard drive. Johnson finished with 69 yards on 14 carries and two pass receptions of 51 and 39 yards -both of which figured prominently in the Irish scoring drives. 
At that point it looked as if the battle for the Shillelagh (trophy given to winner of Notre Dame-Purdue game) would be a shellacking, but the Boilers came back on two second-quarter touchdowns ­the· first scores the Irish had allowed in an opening half this season. The first score came on an eight-yard pass from Doug Downing to Brad Schumacher who had fallen on the play. 
"I was either tripped or just fell down," Schumacher said. "You've got to give Doug credit for hanging in there and stick­ing with me. I saw the ball com­ing when I was on the ground and had just enough time so I shot up and got it." 
The Boilers scored again less 
than two minutes later after 
Jerrol Williams intercepted 
Andrysiak. Two plays later, 
Downing hit a streaking Calvin 
Williams at the goal line form 
22 yards out to Boilers up, 14-10. 
Briggs hit an 18-yard field 
goal after a Green fumble to 
increase the Purdue lead to 17­
10 before the Irish knotted the 
game at the half. 
"We were just executing well," Downing said. "It felt good. I was really fired up to play Notre Dame-and it's nice to do well -but you remember that later. You always remem­ber you lost the Notre Dame game the last time you played them and that's tough." 
After going up 24-20, the Irish scored again on a 49-yard hook up between Andrysiak and Tim Brown. Two more Gradel field goals (from 49 and 28 yards) and Corny Southall's 57-yard interception return sealed the Boilers' fate. 
"It was a fine game," Holtz said in retrospect. "We got down 17-10, and I didn't know how our football team would react. I sort of liked what I saw. It was not a great performance by us. I think we had three turn­overs, and they were all criti­cal. 
"We had an awful lot of big plays. I though our defense stif­fened up and made things hap­pen in the second half." 
~·----~----~--·-~-----­
~-~-~­
Monday, September 28, 1987

page 14 The Observer 
Men's harriers 2nd at Catholic meet 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team placed second overall as it hosted the National Catholic Tournament Friday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish were beaten out by the favorite, Loyola of Chicago. 
Coach Joe Piane and his har­riers learned an important les­son during the race. The key to winning a race like the Na­tional Catholic is to run as a team, something Notre Dame failed to do. 
Loyola of Chicago was led by Eddie Slowikowski (24: 24) who edged Irish senior Dan Garrett by less than two seconds to place first in the overall race. Other top Loyola runners were Marc Burns (3rd) and Jim Westphal (6th). The Ramblers also placed 13th and 16th to finish with an impressively low score of 39. 
The Irish may have had a chance if they could have stayed together and ran as a team. The only other Irish run­ner in the top ten was sopho­more Mike O'Connor who placed 4th (24: 51). Ron Markezich finished 11th overall for the Irish (25:13). Rounding out the Irish top five were senior Mike Smoron (21st) and freshman Pat Kearns (26th). Notre Dame finished with a total of 64 points. 
The rest of the top ten finish­ing schools were Marquette (121 pts), Fordham (150 pts), Canisius (167), Loras (170), St. Thomas, St. John's, Walsh.and Lewis. The surprise of the race was Loras College who placed sixth despite not having a single runner in the top ten. Loras ran consistently throughout and suprised a lot of people. 
Irish captain Dan Garrett felt Notre Dame ran well, but could have done a lot better if they incorporated more team­work. 
"We learned a lesson yester­day that can help us at the Notre Dame Invitational," said Garrett. "We didn't run as-a group and Loyola did. That was the biggest reason why they beat us. 
"Eddie (Slowikowski) and I shared the lead for most of the race. We were trying to force each other to take the lead during the middle. Then at the end he outkicked me. He did the exact same thing to me last spring in the 1500-meter race. I should have expected it." 
Coach Piane believes Loyola perfectly exemplified how to run a team cross country race. 
"To be a successful cross country team," said Piane, "you've got to run as a pack. All you need is your top 5 guys running well and together. Dan (Garrett) and Mike O'Connor ran together for most of the race but our other runners broke into splinter groups. 
"You've got to compliment Loyola for running such an ag­gressive race. It's obvious that they won because they ran as 


Women runners seventh in meet 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 

The women's cross country team improved one spot from last year in Friday's National Catholic Championships, but Irish coach Dan Ryan was still not pleased with the seventh-place finish. 
"I'm a little bit disappointed in the time gap between our runners and our finish," Ryan said. "We were beaten by Detroit who we soundly beat two weeks ago at the Detroit Invitational." 
Villanova ran away with the 21-team meet for the second consecutive year with 40 points. Vicki Huber and Kathy Franey took first and second places for the winners. 
"Villanova is still m1ssmg some of its top runners, but still ran a strong race," Ryan said. "They have incredible depth. They have one of the strongest programs in the country." St. Thomas and Depaul tied for second with 102 points. Fordham and Detroit rounded out the top five with 120 and 138 points followed by Holy Cross at 159 and the Irish at 161. Six teams were added to this year's meet and Notre Dame defeated all of them with the exception of Fordham. 
Junior Theresa Rice led the Irish for the second consecu­tive meet with a seventh-place finish. She toured the course in a time of 18:54.8. "There was the opportunity to run well, and she took i~,'' Ryan said. "She was running with the leaders. There's no question she is one of the best runners in the district, but she has a little more speedwork to do." 
Freshman Jenny Ledrick took 20th place with a time of 
19:25.5 and co-captain Julia Merkel finished 23rd at 19:33.3. Rounding out the scoring for the Irish was Kathleen Lehman in 43rd place and Wendy Mur­ray in 67th. 
Ryan and his team still felt the effects of the injury to junior Terry Kibelstis, one of the top runners. 
The Irish will host the 10­team Notre Dame Invitational Friday at Burke Memorial Golf Course. 

a team. You can't pin the rr=~==================~==========~=~~~
blame on anyone because we ran well, but not as a team." 
Notre Dame did run ex­tremely well, placing second in a field of over twenty teams. The Irish next run on October 2 when they host the Notre Dame Invitational. 


IF YOU CAN•T READ IT... HOW CAN YOU LEARN IT? 
It's back to school time and Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical wants to take care of your vision needs this semester. We're Indiana's largest vision care provider and we can put that expertise to work for you. Please use the coupons below. They cover the vision care products and services you'll need for your schoolwork. When you have a vision problem, there's someone you can turn to. Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical. 

FREE EYEGLASSES 

ADJUSTMENT 
with this coupon 


Bring A Friend 10°/o OFF ZFor 1 Eveglasses Purchase 
not valid with other offers or on sale ilems
Exam Fee or previous orders
each person's purchase of gl 
Please present coupon at time of purchase. All offers not valid with other offers or 
Soutb Bend Mishawaka 1111 E Ireland Rd 506 W. McKinley Broadmoor Plaza K·Mart/Martin Center a=-s from Scotwlale Mall next door to Osco DruR 
291-4000 258-5000 


The "convict" • turns 19 -••
•
•
•
Watch out • Indiana State •• • 
•
Police • •
•
~e'a-X\': 

The Urban Plunge is a 48 hour immersion into the kind of life that most ND/SMC students have never seen. Dur­ing Christmas break, participants spend two days at an inner city site of their choosing (over 40 sites available), hosted by contact persons from a variety of sources. The Urban Plunge offers students the opportunity to experi­ence the conditions of injustice, poverty, and apathy that exist in our cities, as well as the chance to meet persons who are working to improve these conditions and to evaluate their strategies. Participants receive one hour academic credit. 
REGISTRATION FORMS/INFO AVAILABLE BEGINNING SEPT. 30. 
: 
:
:
:
• 

~----------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 28, 1987 The Observer 
Campus 
Monday 
6:00 p.m. PresentationReception for all graduating seniors interested in dis­covering career opportunities with Morgan Guaranty. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
7:00 p.m. PresentationReception for all Economics, ALPA, Marketing, Finance, and Management students interested in discovering career opportunities with Carson, Pirie, Scott. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. Upper 
Lounge, University Club. 
Dinner Menus 
l' 
I
11' 
Notre Dame Ground Beef Hoagie Mosticolli Turkey Divan Mushroom Stroganoff 

•
• 
Saint Mary's Roast Turkey with Dressing Beef and Bean Burrito with Enchilada Sauce Fettucini with Shrimp Deli Bar 
We are happy to 
announce that 

DAVE "the mechanical man" COWDEN has gotten engaged to 
suzv 

"he's wearing my shirt" DYLEWSKI 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
IHM A NIC£ C()(..JJ \' &tASS Of CHX~ ~ 
·805CO ~-.J(f5r ffJW '~ . · YO(} (J5EIJ 7fJ {.{~ 
IT, PCIN(. 
RI?.JT, TlfU. l1:HHi' 
~U He!? WHY YW MOTH~ 1HIIT >f'JI'l 
TeUHG~ 

HAV€N'T MARI?f~P A Mt55 If@(. 
111M YrJI/ 
Nit~ CA THO/.IC &II?/.. 
wve-HER .1 
1/NP HAP TCN Kf/?5 ( 8Y }Wf? lib£. I 
/ 
I t.tJV€ Y/1, Mil/ 

Bloom County ·Berke Breathed 
page 15 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Gray wolf 5 Yellowish­
brown 10 Times of day: 
abbr. 14 Aboveboard 15 Stir 16 Space 17 Having the 

feet turned In 19 Wheel rod 20 Vastness 21 Overwhelm 23 Group 24 Habitat: pref. 25 Tangle 26 Genetic letters 27 Steak order 28 Poetry form 31 -Bill (legend­
ary cowboy) 34 Underage 35 Swear 36 Slips 37 Shining black 38 Soccer great 39 Past 

40 41  Mississippi sight Boxer's  
weapons  

42 Pull behind 43 State firmly 44 Attained 45 Deadly sins 
number 47 Sine -non 48 Batter 51 Roof support 53 Archer's aim 55 Space 56 Black-banded 
fish 58 Dance part 59 Cosmetic 
name 60 Arthur of 
tennis 61 A Fountain 62 Endure 63 Tableland 
DOWN 1 Canters 2 Deem 3 Sired 

©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


4 Lulu 5 Locker Item 6 Maxim 7 Encourage 8 Natives: suff. 9 Snoopy's rival 
10 "-to Live" 11 Digitalis 
plants 12 Ring 13 Pintail duck 18 Signs 22 Above 25 Rajah's lady 26 John -
Passos 27 Stream 29 Blockhead 
09128187 

30 Lambs' dams 31 Fuel 40 Bathe 32 Therefore 41 Colt and filly 33 Eye wrinkles 44 Swallowed 34 Expert 46 Public 37 Setbacks storehouse 38 "The -47 Ruler 
and the 48 Della of song Pendulum" 49 Indian maids 
The Far Side 
-·o:. 
'j I " 

., 
09/25181
50 Jason's wife 51 Grate 52 Comedian 
Johnson 53 Gr. letter 54 Phony 57 Presidential 
monogram 
Gary Larson 

Movies this week: 
ENTER THE DRAGON 


Friday & Saturday 7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 p.m. 


Sponsored by the Student Union Board 

Sports
page 16 Monday, September 28, 1987 
Irish overcome 
pesky Boilermakers, 44-20 

Anthony Johnson does the-high step as he enters the endzone In Notre Dame's 44-20 win over Purdue on Saturday. Johnson scored three touchdowns on runs of 6, 1, and 8 yards. 
Offense kicks into gear for the win 
By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. · More than in any other game this season, Notre Dame got their points the old­fashioned way against Purdue. They earned them. 
The Irish piled up 476 yards of total offense in surviving a first-half scare in Saturday's 44-20 win over the Boiler­makers. Unlike Notre Dame's previous two games, the defense did not give the ball to the offense in opportune field position this time. Not counting Corny Southall's interception return and Mike Griffin's fumble recovery on Purdue's 10-yard line in the fourth quarter, the offense scored on drives of 57, 81, 72, 81, and 49 yards. 
The offense's stick-it-to-them perfor­
mance, especially in the second half, 
was a welcomed sight for Head Coach 
Lou Holtz. 

"Once we got decent field position, we were going to establish a beach­head," he said. "We were going toes­tablish a running game. We were for­tunate enough in that situation to do it. 
"We had some great runs, some great blocking and/ it's probably the most crisp that we've looked this entire year." 
It appeared as though the Irish were returning to habits of earlier years in the first half. The offense gained 276 yards, but turned the ball over twice in the second quarter, setting the stage for 10 Purdue points. 
First, an Andrysiak pass was inter­cepted by Jerrol Williams on the third play after Purdue's first touchdown. Purdue scored a touchdown two plays later to take a 14-10 lead. 
Next, a 61-yard drive by the second unit ended at Purdue's 22 when Mark Green couldn't keep control of a Tony Rice pitch. Williams was there again to recover the ball for the Boiler­makers. 

Irish whip Bowling Green, 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team continued its winning ways this weekend,' defeating Bowling Green and improving its record to 11-2. 
The Irish won the contest in a three-game sweep, winning 15-3, 15-7, 15-9, and are cur­rently riding a seven-game winning streak. Off to its best start ever, Notre Dame also seems to be improving as it heads into a difficult week of four matches. 
"We played well in spots and poorly in others," said Head Coach Art Lambert, "but I noticed a distinct improvement over our play in the Bradley match last week." 
The lrtsh were led by Mary Kay Waller's 19 kills, a career high for the 6-0 junior. Zanette Bennett, also a junior, re­corded 17 kills and pulled out 12 digs to help the Notre Dame defensive cause. 
As a team, the Irish hit for a .476 kill percentage, their best hitting performance since set­ting a school record .539 last October 3 against Marquette. 
"It took us too long to adjust in the first game," said Lam­bert, "but we played well as the match went on. We did a good job covering up on defense. They are working to­gether as a team -with six people out there blending and working together to help each other out." 
Notre Dame now enters a busy week of volleyt>ail, oegin­ning at Northwestern on Wed­nesday. The Wildcats are cur­rently ranked No. 15 in the nation, and will be a challeng­ing test for the Irish, who are looking to break into national rankings themselves. 

On Thursday, Notre Dame will face DePaul in Chicago, then travel to Butler for a Friday evening match. The Irish return home on Saturday for a 7:30 P.M. match with Iowa. 
"This is crunch time," Lam­bert said. "This is where we begin to find out just what we're made of. Mter this -~ 
The Observer I Greg Kohs

stretch, we are at home for a 
Maureen Shea, left, and Kathy Cunningham watch the play on the other
little while. 

side of the net In the volleyball team's season opener last month. The Irish 
"Now is when we begin the 
beat Bowllng Green In three straight games this week and now have a
season," continued Lambert. 
seven-game winning streak. 
Those miscues kept the Irish from taking a lead in the first half and dimmed some of the offense's bright spots. 
Mark Green rushed for 48 yards, but the big plays were provided by fullback Anthony Johnson. The sophomore scored on six-and one-yard runs and also hauled in two passes for 90 yards, beating Purdue linebackers badly. 
"We felt that they would double cover Timmy Brown and we'd be able to get the fullback open," said Holtz. "We did have people open, but that's the risk you take. There were two and even three guys on Timmy. That means you're going to get some other people open. It wasn't any stroke of genius. I'd have done the same thing Purdue did. We'd never gone to our fullback. We'd never made any threat that we might even be going deep with him." 
Purdue linebacker Fred Strickland 
see JOHNSON, page 12 

2nd-half surge keys victory 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.-For the 
first time this young season, the Notre 
Dame was put to the test Saturday at 
Purdue. Going into the lockeroom at 
halftime tied at 17, The Irish did a little 
cramming and came back to pass with 
flying colors. 
Behind Anthony Johnson's three 
scoring runs, the Irish rallied twice to 
defeat Purdue, 44-20, and kept their 
record a perfect 3-0. The loss kept the 
Boilers winless at 0-2-1. 
The Irish had two turnovers in the 
first half and opened up the second with 
a Terry Andrysiak fumble on their sixth 
play. The Boilers went back on top 
when Jonathan Briggs kicked a 50-yard 
field goal, the second longest in Purdue 
history and the longest ever in Ross­
Ade Stadium. 
Then the Irish went to work. Starting 
on their own nine, the Irish drove the 
rest of the field to go on top for good 
on Johnson's third score of the game. 
Except for an opening screen pass from 
Andrysiak to Mark Green for 21 yards, 
the drive was straight ahead running. 
"The 91-yard drive (officially 81 be­
cause of a dead-ball penalty after the 
kick-off return) after they went ahead 
20-17 and we started first and 20 on our 
nine was very critical," Notre Dame 
head coach Lou Holtz said afterward. 
"We came in at halftime, and I told our 
offensive line if we don't win this foot­
ball game I'm not going to give you the 
chance to say we didn't do it." 
The 12-play drive consumed 4: 56 of 
the third quarter and from there the 
Irish defense limited the Boilers to just 
87 total yards in the second half. 
"When you're playing someone that's 
not a highly-ranked ballclub, you tend 
not to have the right attitude," said 
Irish center Chuck Lanza. "Coach Holtz 
knew that things like that were going 
to happen. It took us until the second 
half and halftime. We came in here and 
regrouped." 
For Purdue head coach Fred Akers, 
what looked like the makings of a pleas­
ant day instead turned into another af­
ternoon of frustration. 
"They did what they had to do in the 
second half," Purdue head coach Fred 
see AKERS, page 13 

take win streak into 'crunch' week 





