Egg gadget -page 5 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1987
VOL. XXI, NO. 97 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Smith Hashagen, Eileen Hetterich and Julie Parrish, from left to right, won Friday's run-off election for vice president for student affairs, 

Hetterich, Hashagen, Parrish win SMC student election 
By KAREN WEBB Copy Editor 
The ticket of Eileen Het­terich, Smith Hashagen and Julie Parrish won Friday's run­off election for Saint Mary's student body president, vice president for student affairs and vice president for aca­demic affairs, respectively, defeating the opposing ticket of Sarah Cook, Janel Hammann and Jill Winterhalter. 
The Hetterich ticket won 52.4 percent of the total votes, while the Cook ticket captured 45.9 percent, according to Election Commissioner Sandy Cerimele. In the first election, the Cook ticket won 46 percent of the total votes while the Het­terich ticket had 36 percent. 
The winning ticket needed 50 percent of the total votes plus one vote, Cerimele said. 
In the run-off election for next year's senior class offi­cers, the ticket of Mary Kim Koch, Christine Schymik, Julie Baer and Nancy Kloc for pres­ident, vice president, treasurer and secretary, respectively, defeating Teresa Donegan, Lois Morahan, Angie Teeples and Kate McDevitt. According to Cerimele, the Koch ticket received 55 percent of the total votes, and the Donegan ticket received 42 percent, with 70 percent of the current junior class voting. 
There will be a second run-off election for next year's junior class officers, as neither ticket received the majority vote. The ticket of Rose Pietrzak, Anne Palamaro, Katy Burns and Barb Gullifor received 50 per­cent of the total votes, and the ticket of Christy Wolfe, Mic­helle Agostino, Lisa LaMalfa and Tera Sternitzke received 49 percent, with 59 percent of the current sophomore class 
see ELECTION, page 4 


Scholastic hit with suspension 
By TRIPP BALTZ and MARK PANKOWSKI News Editors 
Scholastic, Notre Dame's student magazine, has been suspended from publication by the Student Activities Of­fice, according to a letter made available to The Ob­server late Sunday night. 
The letter, dated Feb. 22, stated Scholastic was suspended because its editors "printed a photo­graph of an artistic work ... (which) was removed from the fall edition of the Juggler by the Student Activities Of­fice." 
"The decision to run the photograph in the Scholastic was done without consulta­tion with or knowledge of the Student Activities Office," which acts as publisher of the magazine, the letter said. 
There was no indication early Monday morning as to how long the suspension would last. 
see SUSPENSION, page 5 

STUDENT I University of ACTIVITIES Notre Dame 
February 22, 1987 

The Scholastic is a publication of the University of Notre Dame under the direction of the Student Activities Office. In this relationship, the university acts in the capacity of publisher, as it also does with the Jufgler and the Dome. All three publications are to opera e under the-iame policies designed in accordance with the mission of Notre Dame. In this relationship, it is unrealistic to depict the Student Activities Office as censor since censorship is an external influence and the Student Activities Office, as publisher, is not external. 
In the February 19, 1987, edition of the Scholastic, the editors printed a photograph of an artistic work by Nick Antonakis. This same piece of work was removed from the ~all edition of the Juggler by the Student Activities Office. The decision to run the photograph in the Scholastic was done without consultation with or knowledge of the Student Activities Office. Since the Scholastic is under the same policies as the Jufgler and operated contrary to these policies, operat ons of the Scholastic will be suspended immediately. During the suspension, new operating procedures are to be drawn up addressing proper production schedules to assure against further incidents. 



ND grad: Police use 'scare tactics' 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Assistant News Editor 
Lawyers for an agency of the state of Indiana are "outraged" at reports of what they call "scare tactics" used by the South Bend Police De­partment when handing out al­cohol violations at off-campus parties, according to 1986 Notre Dame graduate Kevin Flynn. 
Flynn said the agency, which he declined to identify, is inves­tigating an incident in which three students were charged with public intoxication and an­other student with underage drinking. The agency is also in­vestigating other incidents, he added. 
The reports stem from the possible administration of breathalyzer tests without probable cause at a party on Mark Street last fall and the possible misuse of field tests, according to Flynn. The admin­istration of the breathalyzer test, however, is the "main thing," he said. 
According to the agency's lawyers, the events described by the students when having the test administered to them would constitute violations of Indiana law, said Flynn. The agency must now investigate whether or not the complaints were legitimate, he said. "They have to prove they were legitimate" for anything to happen. 
Ifthe agency determines that the complaints are legitimate, they would initially only inform the city, Flynn said. "They wouldn't charge or sue the city," he added. 
If the misuse of the breat­halyzer tests continues, however, then the agency could "bring a lawsuit against the city," he said. 
Flynn, a resident assistant in Morrissey Hall last year, said he first became interested in the reports when he returned to campus last fall for a football game. He said some of his friends complained about the way South Bend Police ad­ministered the tests. 
Mter initially looking into the complaints, Flynn said he con­tacted lawyers for the agency because he didn't know In­diana's alcohol laws. 
Flynn said South Bend Police are biased against Notre Dame students because they only see their bad side. "I knew some South Bend cops, he said. There is a real bias towards the stu­dents. (The officers) would readily admit to it." 
Flynn asks any student who feels his rights may have been violated to write to P .0. Box Q at The Observer. 

---------------~--­
The Observer Monday, February 23, 1987 -page 2 
Oral Roberts: intentions good but credibility gone 
Reverend Oral Roberts is having a bad year. 
Of Interest 
A national campaign against VD has been launched in China by health authorities, the official Daily China reported Saturday. Ten VD surveillance stations have been set up in major coastal cities, 23 years after China claimed the problem was eradicated. -Associated Press 
Three top Communists in the Soviet republic of Kazakhstan were stripped of their party posts Saturday because of ethical violations of nepotism, the Soviet news agency Tass reported. According to Tass, the officials were removed for having "committed gross breaches of party, economic and moral norms" in their respective former positions. -Associated Press 
$17,500 is the price at which a first edition of Dashiell Hammett's "The Maltese Falcon" was valued. The book, signed by the author, appears on display at the 20th annual California Antiquarian Book Fair. The Ham­mett novel is owned by Peter Stern of Pepper & Stern Rare Books of Santa Barbara and Sharon, Mass. Stern says it is one of fewer than six signed first-edition copies. 
-Associated Press 

In Brief 
The Indiana playoffs of the Black History Showdown, a quiz game show, will be today at 4 p.m. at the Center For Social Concerns. Participants come from Indianapolis and Gary, and the winner will compete in the national competition. The public is invited. -The Observer 
The Adopt-A-Transfer program for Notre Dame transfer students allows Notre Dame students to "adopt" a January, 1987, transfer student. Any interested transfers may contact Bill Ryan at 272-9443 or John Byrne at 283-1483. 
-The Observer 

Off-Campus Housing Night, sponsored by student government, will be held Tuesday in the main lobby of LaFortune Student Center from 7 to 9:30p.m. Represen­tatives from area apartment complexes will be available for questions and information. -The Observer 
"Singing the Blues: Giving Voice to your Depression," a workshop on effective ways to cope with depression, will be presented Tuesday from 6:30 to 7:30 in the Annapolis Room of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
"Philippine Awareness Week," a series of lectures amf presentations at Saint Mary's, begins today. The week is intended to commemorate last February's revoluton, which saw the overthrow of Philippine's Pres­ident Ferdinand Marcos, and to review recent peacemak­ing attempts in the region. -The Observer 
Budweiser and Georgia State tourism departments have established "Pit Stops" along the major routes south, to ensure a safe trip for visitors heading to Florida. The Indiana "Pit Stop" is located at the highway rest area just north of Louisville in Henryville off Intersate 65-South, and the others are in Valdosta and in Savannah, Goergia. Each "Pit Stop" will provide hot coffee, doughnuts and other refreshments, as well as highway safety tips and tourist information. They will be open March 6 to 8, 13 to 15 and 20 to 22. -The Observer 
Weather 
OK, the parents are gone, you can 
relax. Put tbe posters back on the wall. Bring out the five-pound bag of M&M's. They never believed you eat healthily anyway. It will be mostly cloudy and cooler today with the high in the upper 30s to 40. Fair and cool tonight with the low in the lower 20s. Partly sunny Tuesday 


with the high in the 30s. -Associated Press 

Design Editor ................. Chris Donnelly Accent Copy Editor .... Caroline Gillespie Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tom Schiesser Accent Layout ............... Sharon Emmite Typeaetter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark McLaughlin Typiat .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Colleen Foy .......................................... Daniel Cahill ND Day Editor .............. Laurine Megna Newa Editor. . . . . . . Regis Coccia SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Copy Editor ....................... Karen Webb Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Sport• Copy Editor......... Rick Rietbrock Photographer ........................ Zoltan Ury Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Matt Guye Religion Copy Editor..... Margie Kersten Viewpoint Layout......... Melinda Murphy Religion Layout .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Carolyn Rey 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Vicious rumors are out that his university teeters on the verge of bankruptcy. Despite the popularity of this TV evangelist, word of mouth has it that Roberts is having trouble paying his bills. 
To make matters worse, Roberts awoke from a peaceful sleep some weeks ago because of a divine summons of the type Old Testament prophets learned to dread. In a revelation Roberts reportedly heard the voice of God com­mand him to raise eight million dollars by the first of April or face death. 
When he told his television congregation of this heaven-sent mission and turned to them for support, he apparently pushed his popularity too far. News reports originating in Tulsa, the Vatican City of Roberts' new breed of Christian fundamentalism, claimed the TV audience was outraged by the reverend's plea for ransom money. How could they believe that God had given Roberts a pecuniary ultimatum? For many it was simply beyond the limits of credibility. 
All of this must have come as quite a blow to the poor old reverend. His intentions seemed as good as ever, that is, to raise money for a worthy cause, namely his church and its am­bitious educational program. In the past, viewers contributed generously whenever money was lacking. The public recognized him as the Lord's servant. So why should the faithful suddenly doubt his integrity? 
Some of his parishioners argued that God does not stoop so low as to take his own minis­ters hostage for a financial cause. Other fun­damentalist preachers criticized the divine ul­timatum as far-fetched and even absurd. It was as if rationality and common sense had sud­denly become the criterion of what is to be believed in the fundamentalist religion. 
It is a sad thing to see the sheep abandon their shepherd, but this is apparently what was happening. 
Of course the media exaggerated the stories of church dissent. After the initial reaction of bitter disbelief checks soon began to roll in. A New York Times article last week even re­ported that students at Oral Roberts University were not skeptical of their leader's agreement with God, but disappointed with the way his 
Jim Carroll 
Photography Editor 

gathering, the devil snuck into his room 
. ' 
JUmped on his bed and took a life threatening grasp of his throat. As Roberts tells it, while gasping for breath he somehow managed to yell for help. Moments later his wife arrived and promptly "rebuked" the devil by ordering him from the room. 
The good Reverend Roberts is an American, and so unlike the Bhagwan of Oregon fame, he 
. cannot be chased out of the country. He is per­fectly free to continue his battle with the forces of the netherworld. In all likelihood he will con­tinue to do so -his life is still officially on the line. Nevertheless, by this point friends and close associates must be suggesting a safer profession, perhaps insurance sales or real es­tate. The risks are simply not as great. 
The Observer Is always looking for talent. If you have any, come to our offices and start working on your newspaper. 

----~----------------­
Getting to like yourself: 
Building Self-Esteem A four part workshop sponsored by The University Counseling Center 
March 3,10,24,31 (call Tues.) 
6:15 pm -7:45 pm 

Haggar Hall Rm 123 Registration: 239-7336 (Arleen) 
..-----•Notre Dame Communication and Film Series 
-----------------~-~-­
This week at the Snite: 
The Conversation (1974) Color, 113 minutes, directed by Francis Ford Coppola, USA Monday, February 23, 7 p.m., Snite An obsessive surveillance expert (Gene Hackman) becomes personally involved in a case, finding himself pulled into murder and high-level power plays. Perhaps Coppola's most brilliant (and underrated) film among the strong early work. 
Remember My Name (1978) Color, 101 minutes, directed by Alan Rudolph, USA Monday, February 23, 9 p.m., Snite 
The film preceding "Choose Me" and "Trouble in Mind" stars Geraldine Chaplin as an ex-con who, having taken the rap for lover Anthony Perkins, gets out of jail only to discover that he has married another woman. Rudolph's quirky, non-genre film of great originality was produced by Robert Altman. 
Manhattan (1979) RW, cinemascope, 96 minutes, directed by Woody Allen, USA Tuesday, February 24, 7:30p.m., Snite Chronicling Allen's search for the ideal relationship (from Meryl Steep to Diane Keaton to Mariel Hemingway), "Manhattan" is at once a delightful comedy and a passionate and gentle love song to New York City and its inhabitants. 
The Observer Monday, February 23, 1987-page 3 
Security Beat 
Thursday 
3 p.m. -A Lyons Hall student reported her bookbag was stolen from South Dining Hall between 
12:30 p.m. and 1:10 p.m. The bookbag and contents were valued at $80. 
10:10 p.m.-A Farley Hall stu­dent reported her bookbag was stolen from North Dining Hall be­tween 6:30 p.m. Wednesday and 11 a.m. Thursday. The bag and !'nnt.ents were valued at $120. 
Friday 
11:30 a.m. -A Pasquerilla West student reported her backpack was lost or stolen in LaFortune Student Center at about 11:45 
p.m. Wednesday. The backpack and contents were valued at $70. 
2:45 p.m. -A Carroll Hall stu­dent reported his backpack was stolen from South Dining Hall be­tween 1:30 and 2:20 p.m. The backpack and contents were valued at $77.50. 
3 p.m. -Three students were ap­prehended near St. Mary's Lake 
for violating the University Alco­
hol Policy. 

8:50p.m.-Security assisted the 
fire department at Morrissey 
Hall. A small fire apparently had 
been deliberately set outside a 
student's room. 
Saturday 

10 a.m. -A staff member at 
Fatima Retreat Center reported 
seeing two suspicious men 
driving a small maroon car in the 
wooded area near Carroll Hall. 
The incident occurred at about 10 
p.m. Friday. 
2 p.m. -A Cavanaugh Hall stu­dent reported that three juveniles walked in his room and stated they were looking for someone. The student didn't recognize the name and became suspicous. Se­curity was notified and the youths were apprehended near Grace Hall. The youths were released to a parent pending review of trespassing charges. 
3:30 p.m. -An off-campus stu­dent reported the theft of an in­dash car stereo and a radar de­tector from his 1982 VW Jetta. The theft occurred in the D-6 parking lot between 1:20 and 3:30p.m. The loss was estimated at about $600. 
10:25 p.m. -Security officers as­sisted the Notre Dame Fire De­partment at an alarm in LaFor­tune Student Center. 
10:53 p.m.-A faculty member reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
11:20 p.m. -A student was ap­prehended for violating the Uni­versity Alcohol Policy at the B-1 parking lot. 
Sunday 

3:04a.m.-A guest at the Morris Inn reported a medical problem. The woman was transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center by am­bulance. 
8:29 a.m. -Security inves­tigated a complaint of an exterior water faucet being on at the Ra­diation Lab. While investigating the complaint, officers dis­covered that two windows had been broken by vandals. 

General Directions 
AP Photo 

Attorney General Edwin Meese speaks at a Washington news conference where guidelines were released for federal employee drug testing. Meese said the focus of the testing program is to rehabilitate drug users. 

272-5455

NAUGLEs· TO YOUR DORM! '•
::l 
= 
i: 
TACO'S 
~ Crisp Taco Soft TacoQ Fajita Taco I""'"
= 
::l Macho Taco 0 
:t
•N 
BURRITO'S 
Bean Burrito 
Meat Burrito 
Combo Burrito 
Cheese Burrito 

::l SALADS 
~ Salad Platter .... Tostada Grande 
~ 
Q 
NEW PLAITERS 
= 
::l Enchilada 0 Soft Taco :t Ranchero' 
Fajita-Steak'

•
N 
Reagan puts 'Star Wars' talks on hold 

told The Associated Press. 
The consultations are due to begin early this week. Reagan is sending Paul Nitze and Rich­ard Perle to meet with leaders of six West European countries, while Edward Rowny, his senior arms control adviser, leaves Tuesday for China, Japan, South Korea and Australia. 
The three U.S. weapons ex­perts are due to return home by next weekend, indicating a decision by Reagan on the con­troversial tests is likely by mid­March. 
Nitze is the senior arms con­trol adviser at the State De­partment, while Perle is assis­tant secretary of defense for international security policy and a leading proponent of the Star Wars program, known for­mally as the Strategic Defense Intiative, or SDI. 
They will depart today or Tuesday and go to Belgium, Britain, France, Italy, The Net­herlands and West Germany. 
Mala. II Macho or Wet Additional .75 
(lncluda Bean•·C~Jeex. SaJad & Enllft) "With Sour Crmm 
FOR LARGER APPETITES DINNERS AVAilABLE 
1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 
1.50 2.25 2.00 1.75 
2.75 3.25 
3.00 3.00 3.00 3.75 

NITELY 5-12 
::l 
~ 
i~
cg 
== 
::lc 
~~ 
N-! 
= :t c 
;#~~ 

NACHOS 
Nachos & Cheese 1.25 Macho Nachos 2.25 Beans & Cheese 1.00 
FROM THE GRILL 
Naugleburger 2.00 or Fashion 1.50 Chicken Sandwich 1.75 Macho Fries 1.00 
DRINKS 
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Slice, Root Beer, Dr. Pepper, l£monade, Ice Tea 
Liters 1.00 

Milk Shakes 1.25 
501 Dlxleway North Roseland 
272-5455 

Plu11 Tax on 1'\bo\/e Prices 
6.00 Minimum Order 
$100 

Call Jeff 3660 or Joe 1190 SAB sponsored 
Only 5 spaces left! 

.;;JW.··JII<~---::~;·a<.•-M¥,;.'a!,·;-.:~~;·B.:>AC,~;.;.-;J.A(~).5·61!··-i!_Z_Oi111[(Miaf!lll•
llfl!.illii;_,III!Jf.~-·.>Mr::i->-.:.::>->8~1~~~;;;!3ft>JIIJIP!l.WW·_.;, 
---~·-----------------­
The Observer Monday, February 23, 1987-page 4 
Election 
continuedfrom page 1 
voting. 
The run-oft election for the junior class officers will be held Tuesday at Haggar College Center from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Commenting on the student body election, Hetterich said, "To be honest, being 10 percent behind (in the first election), it came as a big surprise. And 
52.4 percent is still close." 
All members pf the Hetterich ticket agreed they were very excited about the victory, with Hashagen adding, " ... and ex­tremely shocked." 
Hashagen said they attribute their victory to "hard work and knowing what the students want. 
"I think it was, like it said in The Observer (endorsement), our approachability ... I think people just felt maybe a little more comfortable with us." 
She added, "We were happy we got the Ann Rutger (ticket's) support (after the first election)." 
Hetterich said, "The first thing we want to do is go out and get in touch with the stu­dents. We really want to let people know that they can come to us." 
Parrish said one of her office priorities will be to continue to pursue current Vice President for Student Affairs Betsy Burke's work on negotiating senior comprehensive exam policies with the Saint Mary's administration. 
All three officers-elect also emphasized the necessity of all aspects of student government working together with the ad­ministration, with Parrish stressing "mutual support." 
Hetterich, Hashagen and Parrish will replace Student Body President Jeanne Heller, Vice President for Student Af­fairs Sarah Cook and Vice President for Academic Af­fairs Betsy Burke on April 1. 
According to Cerimele, 50 percent of the student body voted in the elections. "It was the biggest election turnout that we've seen in years. We're impressed with the student body's participation," she said. 
Cook said, "I'll lend my sup­port to student governmental­ways, but I don't know how di­rectly." She said she plans to pursue "other things on campus that I want to get in­volved with but never had the time for before," as well as pro­grams that she currenly sup­ports. 
Winterhalter said she plans to stay involved with student government, possibly applying for a position on senior board. "Even if I don't get a position, I will continue to get involved,'' she said. 
She added she has confidence in the officers-elect. "All three are very good leaders." 
Student Body President Jeanne Heller said the Het­terich ticket has a challenge before them based on their campaign slogan of "Changes." 
"I think we've set up a good base this year. It will be inter­esting to see what changes they will make," Heller said. She addedthatstudentgovernment awareness has increased this past year, evidenced by the high voter turnout. 
;) 
" 
.,.J 
.-a 'l$fk(t
•


Dazzling Dinner Decorum 
Students set up tables in the north Dome of the ents' Weekend. The Observer/Zoltan Ury ACC before the cocktail dance for Junior Par-
CAREER TUNITIE 



~~1 
Early Bird Special ~ 
Now renting for Fall ~ 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and~§receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 . 
Protected by Pinkerton Secu~ity·
1 Agency 
~~t.Q'>t.Q'>~~· 

Break Away at the Castle. 
Have a new look for Spring. Designer Cut and Air Dry Special 
FIRST AND SECOND YEAR LAW STUDENTS: 
The United States Marine Corps Judge Advocate Division offer 
you a unique opportunity. 
The Judge Advocate Division functions much like a large civ­ilian law firm and includes about 400 practicing lawyers. Few civilian practices, however, can offer a young lawyer the diver­sity of assignments you will receive in the Marine Corps. 
As a Judge Advocate, you will have the opportunity to work in a variety of fields, such as international, labor, torts, en­vironment, family, and aviation law. 
Your initial work will probably be in litigation, as either a prosecutor or a defense counsel in court-martial and later as a judge in criminal cases of all descriptions. 
Same of the Judge Advocate's practice is routine, such as drafting wills and leases. Judge Advocates have also appearedbefore federal district courts, courts of appeal, the Merit Systems Protection Board, and at Equal Employment OpportunityCommission and Nuclear Regulatory Commission hearings. 
THE BENEFITS OF BECOMING A U.S. MARINE CORPS JUDGE ADVOCATE: 
* Sta~t~ng Salary $19,500 -$23,200 
* Opportunity to clerk at a major Marine Command duringthe summer Law Program Guarantee
* 

* Freedom to withdraw from the program after initial 
training 
Longevity for rank while in school -which means more
* 

money to you 
30 days paid vacation
* 

* Immediate courtroom experience upon graduation 
FOR MO~ INFORMATION CALL TOLL-FREE 
$10.00 (reg $18.50) We are only minutes from campus. Call for an app. 272-0312 
1-800-621-8009 
Queen's Castle 
no other discounts honored on this ad exp 3 I 15 


The Observer Monday, February 23, 1987 -page 5 
CompuServe Has Heard About Notre Dame Students... 
...And We Want 
1b Talk 1b You. 
CompuServe looks for people like you. Ambitious. Competent. Conscientious. And we know Notre Dame is a ~ood place to find them. So we're conung to campus just to talk to you. 
Open House Wednesday, February 25 5:30 -7:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
~h~m/5u;:;::=':::!-::t ~u~~~ '\Y'"~iiSt~~.W:i:!ktoM':r8ke~1! ~~:!a0~~~~u~r:~~':l!: and 
office• natlonw&de-begmning with our intenaive eight-week aurnmer training proeram on mforrnataon .ervice product&. atrateeic marketing and 1111lea methods. 
Attend our Open Houae to find out more about CompuServe and the jobs we offer.' l~u can't meet ~~~::~C::~:J~~'Orc::~r:.l~cer::~~ce for more information regarding Comp rve'a 

~~~~=Centre Blvd. 
Columbuo, OH 43220 At.t.n: Employment Manager 

\ 
APPhoto

Back to nature 
Two hikers soak up the sun while picnicking on West Bath, Maine. icy shores along the New Meadows River in 
Purdue students engineer egg gadget 
Five teams of students en­The winner: the "Strategic
Associated Press 

tered contraptions Saturday in Egg Initiative" developed by a 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -the annual Rube Goldberg con­team calling itself "Moments Some say breakfast is the most test, which this year chal­of Inertia: the Final Chapter." important meal of the day, but lenged entrants to find the most The winners took 33 steps to it can also be the most compl­complicated way to fry an egg. plop an egg into a frying pan, icated, if you ask some Purdue The rules called for a minimum and their device featured 
University engineering stu­of 25 steps, all done in less than gadgets known as a Purdue four minutes. Nonlinear Eggcelerator, Agent 
dents. 
Grapefruit and a Wishing Wok. 

There also was a Banana Hel­The Observer Is accepting applications for per -a guillotine that made fast the following paid positions: work of slicing bananas. 
The team added extra steps to prepare hearty side dishes, 1987-88 such as grapefruit juice and a bowl of cereal with the sliced
Managing Editor bananas and milk. 
"We built it backwards, from and the last step. The last step has to work," said Jarvis Tou, aBusiness Manager member of the winning team. "The hard part is putting everything together and get­
A resume and a one-page personal 
ting the timing to work." 

statement Is due to Kevin Becker by 5 PM, Tuesday, February 24. 

Pop artist Warhol dies 
3rd Floor Lafortune Student Center 239·5303 
in hospital 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Andy Warhol,

~'tU 
the pale prince of Pop Art who turned images of soup cans and 

SfPW«J~~ 
superstars into museum pieces, died Sunday of a heart attack.

'87 
Warhol, who was believed to be 58, died at New York Hospi­
tal a day after undergoing gall bladder surgery. A cardiac ar­rest team worked unsuccess­fully for an hour to save him. 
Slender, pallid and soft­

1'~ 
per ,.raon • qulld occu,.ncy 
spoken, instantly recoptizable 

or side room.s • certain -k·only 
in his blond wig, Warliol aban­

pluot..
$155.00 per week 
cancollalion '"110.00 
doned a successful career as a commercial illustrator in the

D4YTVN41NN~~V4DW4~ 
1950s to gain worldwide fame

Information 1·800-874·1822 Reservations 
as the principal exponent of the

ON THE OCEAN 
Pop Art movement.

Cti~C~I:I~S CA.I'r and LVUNGI: 
60'5 • 70'5 • 80's D.J. D.J. Daily • Pool Bar Entertainment Nitely • Drink Specials Contests • Games 
He won fame in the early 

T-Shlrts • Visors • Mugs Tournaments • Giwlaways 
1960s by producing repeated

Promotions • Contests • Fun Promotions • Fun 
silk-screen images of com­

..UNI>I:D !11•• CLUn 
monplace items such as Campbell's soup cans, and 

D.J. • Light Show • VIdeo a.­
All Guests Must Have College J.D. Or Be 19 Years Of Age Unless Accompanied By A Parent Or Spouse 
went on to establish himself as 
To Stay At The 
the emotionless recorder of the 

I>A.Yf()NA.INN 
images of his day. 

LOCATED TWO BLOCKS FROM 
Warhol was an iconoclast

OCEAN CENTER • BOARDWALK • BANDSHELL 
and an eccentric, rejecting ac­

219 S. ATLANTIC • DAYTONA BEACH • FLORIDA 32018 
cepted conventions of art, soci­
(904) 252-3626 
ety and behavior. 

Suspension 
continuedfrom page 1 
The letter stated, 
however, that "during the 
suspension, new operating 
procedures are to be drawn 
up addressing proper pro­
duction schedules to assure 
against further incidents." 
Scholastic Managing 
Editor Keith Harrison said, 
"We are trying to contact 
(Vice President for Student 
Affairs) Father Tyson and 
until then we have no com­
ment." 
Scholastic Editor Maher 
Mouasher declined com­
ment. 
The letter was made avail­
able to The Observer at ap­
proximately 11 p.m. Sunday 
by Director of Student Activ­
ities Joseph Cassidy, who 
declined comment. 
Scholastic printed the photo of the artistic work, which appears to be of a man and woman embraced in a sexual act, in its Feb. 19 issue. 
The photo originally was 
removed from Juggler's fall 
edition. In its place, Juggler 
printed a different piece of 
art work, along with the 
statement "Original choice 
censored by the Office of 
Student Activities.'' 
According to Cassidy's let­
ter, Scholastic is subject to 
"the same policies as the 
Juggler." 
Because Scholastic 
editors "operated contrary 
to these policies, operations 
of the Scholastic will be 
suspended immediately.'' 
Notre Dame's student handbook du Lac states "student publications should be free of censorship and ad­vance approval of copy, and their editors and managers should be free to develop
their own editorial policies and news coverage. At the same time, this editorial freedom entails the corol­lary responsibility to be governed by the canons of responsible journalism and allow for the expression of various points of view." 
Cassidy's letter states that "it is unrealistic to depict the Student Activities Office as censor since censorship is an external influence and the Student Activities Office, as publisher, is not exter­nal." 


"ie~~_O_i_n__t______________
M-onda-y,Fe-brua-ry23_,198-7-pa-ges 

University-ron committee could aid student life 
In the past several weeks, many people have asked me what my views on student government are. Most have phrased the inquiry negatively. "What is wrong with student government?" My answer is everything and nothing. 
Bruce Lohman 
guest column 

Actually SG is both a total waste of time and a fruitful expenditure of one's energies for the betterment of our com­munity. Confused? So am I. With four years of activities behind me, I still don't know if any of my efforts have been worthwhile. Most often I think that I have contributed to Notre Dame in some small, yet imperceptible way. Other times, however, I realize that I should have spent more time trying to educate myself. Should I have listened more frequently to my roommate? "My advice to you, Bruce, is to start drink­ing." I should have listened. He's pre­med. 
Can we do anything to help SG? Yes, we can. SG can become a proud, effec­tive organization if three easy steps are taken. I will try to describe the first step today. 
What does SG really do? I believe that most students do not know. But almost all students have an idea of what they think SG does. Most students think that SG works to improve student life, or to be more specific, student life which falls under the title student af­fairs. Most students think that SG is incapable of getting anything accom­plished in this area. SG is broken down. Most students are correct in their think­ing. 
What can we, as students, do to fix SG? Nothing. No matter what we do, SG is as effective as it will ever be. Remember that we are presently using Crayolas as our main instrument of communication. 
Should we just quit? Bow our heads in shame that we ever thought that SG could do important things? Drink heav­ily to wash away the despair? 
Not yet. Let us put our egos aside for a moment. Is there anyone in our com­munity who can resuscitate SG? Of course, there is. Who? The Administra­tion can help us. I am not kidding. The men in the Dome are our only hope. What can they do for for SG? Invite SG to the party. No laying of the hands or exorcisms necessary. Just a simple in­vitation. SG doesn't need oxygen. SG needs an ego boost. 
What is this invitation? It is a formal invitation to discuss student affairs is­sues at Notre Dame. A formal invita­tion is a request for formal student in­put. The invitation would take the form of a council-call it whatever you wish. 
Its characteristics are simple. The most prominent feature is that the chairman is the president of the Uni­versity. It would consist of a con­glomeration of all members of our community. The council would have an Executive committee co-chaired by the two Vice-Presidents of Student Affairs (the one from the Dome and the one from LaFortune). Grunt work would be done in committees. Each member would have··one vote. The decisions of this Council would become University policy. The chairman would have veto power. But this power would be used very infrequently. Maybe never. 
The ratio of members, of course. would be a great matter of concern. I would suggest a ratio of 2 students: 1 administrator: 1 rector: lfaculty mem­member. Multiply by six for a total of 
30. 31 if you count the chairman. Stu­dent members would consist of 8 elected hall presidents. The four remaining student seats would always go to the Vice-President of Student Af­fairs, the HPC chairperson, the Judicial Council chairperson, and the Senior class president. Four ex-officio seats is a big ego boost. 
Doesn't this invitation already exist in the Campus Life Coucil? No, because the Student Body President chairs the 
CLC. This title is the quintessential facade of power on campus. The SBP cannot do this job. Why? Because every year the SBP is someone new. Second, the SBP is not knowledgable enough about the issues before the Council. Fi­nally, the SBP can say forget it and not lose his job. The president of the Uni­versity can not. Talent is seldom enough to guarantee job performance. Responsibility must be present, also. 
If the chairman was the president of the University, however, the Council would gain tradition and respect almost immediately. Further, guidance and direction could be given to all mem­bers. There is nothing wrong with a little guidance. We students need this guidance most of all. At present, no one is expected to do things in this area. We want to have something expected of us. Respect for student input comes only as the result of students fulfilling expectations. 
So, what if the Administration is not willing to make this first step? (for reasons why they probaby will not want to extend this invitation, I refer you to a fine column, "Where Captains of In­dustry Sink," by R.C Longworth of the Chicago Tribune.) One possibility is to just keep using the informal invitations which already exist. These would be the CLC, the Student Senate, SG's cabinet members, and anyone else who might take the time to try to communi­cate with the Administration. What do all these have in common? Whether your idea is accepted or not depends on the whims of those who sit in the Dome. (Many things are influential in their decisions: alumni donations, parents' letters, whether breakfast settled prop­erly, etc.) Honestly, I believe that a letter from "Suzy in B-P" is just as, if not more, effective than a CLC resolu­tion. The use of these informal avenues is the reason why most students think SG is dead now. So, I reject this option. 
Three options remain, all of which are as acceptable as any of the others. 
1. Party more and forget about it. 2. Redirect your energies into you own dorm. Your hall president and rector could probably use your help. 3. Redirect you energies to those areas where a formal invitation already exists. 

The Administration has given out plenty of formal invitations . They simply forgot one. Unfortunately, the one which they forgot is what most stu­dents find important. It is the one party that most students think SG should be attending. 
At present, we can only watch this party through the windows. Some­times, the Administration will throw us a piece of cake. Most often, they tell us to go home and study. SG needs to stop feeling sorry about its sad condition. Stand up and ask for an invitation. We don't want to be invited because we are students and, as such, deserve to be invited. We, the students, are an asset of the University. An unused asset. 
I think that students can help the Ad­ministration; not to run the University, but simply to help improve our com­munity. However, they have a business to run. As the responsible directors oi our Univeristy, the Administration has the right to choose which assets to em­ploy and which not to employ. 
I am not calling for democracy. Notre Dame is, unfortunately, dissimilar to a Greek oikos. I am simply asking for an invitation. Use us in a beneficial man­ner. Maybe then, students will stop having that used feeling and poor old SG will stop bearing the brunt of stu­dents' cynicism. Responsible student imput, as Professor Plantinga might say, lurks somewhere in the near neigh­borhood. 
Bruce Lohman is the coordinator ofstu­dent reports to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Dome's dirty condition inhibits proper tribute 
Dear Editor: 
What is the first image brought to mind when people speak of Notre Dame? For many, like myself, it is of the dazzling Golden Dome supporting Our Lady of the Lake against a cloud­less blue sky. For others it may be of the tranquill Grotto hidden in the grove behind Sacred Heart Church. Both monuments represent our tribute to Mary in all her splendor for the whole world to see. 
Did I say dazzling Golden Dome? I stand corrected. Have you taken a good look at at the dome lately? Grimy is a more appropriate adjective. How can our administrators ignore the natural defacing occuring upon the very roof of our Administration Building -at the very center of our beautiful campus and the administrative center of the university? What kind of impression does this neglect make upon our visitors? 
Daresay the administrators that the dome is cleaned at regular intervals and it.is not yet time for its refinishing? Would a corporation neglect to replace damaged equipment because it has not reached the end of its expected useful life at the time? When the Grotto was all but destroyed by fire in 1985, it received prompt publicity and a reconstructive attention. It would not be permitted to remain in shambles. Is it not improper, also, that our Golden Dome should remain in such neglected condition? 
Costs must not deter the university from refinishing our nationally renowned Golden Dome. Do not let it be said that the University of Notre Dame is too cheap to pay proper respect to its patron saint. 
David Dietz Keenan Hall 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the day 
"Striving for success without hard work is like trying to harvest where you haven't planted." 
DavidB/y Salt Lake City Desert News 

\1ie~{!_()_l_·Jl__t_____________________________________________________________M~on~d~ay~,~F~e~br~u~ar~y~2~3,~1~98~7--~pa~g~e~7 
The duties of a class P.O.BoxQ 
officer are outlined 
Somebody help me! I am suffering from the senior election blues. This is the first year that I have not neglected my studies for more than a week, have not imposed my election aspirations on my friends, have not inspected every dorm on campus, and have not de­signed campaign materials, including the obnoxious buttons. I still fail to sleep enough, but that's college. What ails me is the realization that my Student Government experience is ending, but that also means that other enthusiastic and talented students will be able to benefit from the leadership experience as I did. I would be remiss if I did not entice other students into the offices that I held for three years. I loved all of it. 
David Miklos 
guest column 

Let me state my purpose. I am recruiting all dedicated, creative, and enthusiastic underclassmen into stu­dent government. A new student body president and vice president have been elected, and soon will appoint a cabinet of approximately thirty. Call the new president, and ask him how you can get involved. The Student Activities Board is accepting applications for all com­missioner positions including: Cultural Arts, Campus Entertainment, Ideas and Issues, Movies, Musical Entertain­ment, Publicity, Services, and Special Events. There will be new hall presi­dents elected, and many positions will be awarded. Student government is ap­pealing to all interested students to in­vestigate all the possibilities on the second floor of LaFortune. 
The remainder of this plea will focus on the class offices. As senior class president, I am responsible for the promotion of the class officer position, and for explaining how to run an office. Having held a class office for three years, I can explain the different focus that each year will concentrate upon. As sophomores, the major concern is providing functions that allow your classmates to meet each other. These can be very simple events: study breaks, service projects, masses or a dance at Theodore's. The pace begins to quicken during the junior year with JPW, spring break trips, and formals. Finally, during senior year, the sky's the limit: Senior Class Trip to Jamaica, Senior Formal in Chicago, skiing at Boyne Mountain, Senior Bar specials, and Commencement Weekend. Throughout all three years, the concen­tration is on class unity, and almost any well publicized event can serve this purpose. 
Interested in my job? I hope so! Tonight, Monday, Feb. 23, there is an informational meeting for all inter­ested class officer candidates. The Om­budsman people will explain the rules, and give suggestions about campaign­ing. This meeting is completely option­al, but there is a mandatory meeting on Wednesday. At that time, you and your running mates will sign-up and receive petitions. In order to be listed on the ballot, you will need 100 signa­tures from members of your class to be turned in by 5:00 on Monday, March 
2. The campaign will begin Tuesday night at midnight, and will continue un­til midnight of Monday, March 9. Class elections will be Tuesday, March 10, and a run-off will follow on March 12. The winning ticket must receive a majority vote of the total number of students voting in each class, so usually a run-off is necessary. So in a matter of three weeks, you can go from totally uninvolved, to the president of your class. 
How do you get elected? Have inter­ested friends, creative ideas, reveal your dedication, and campaign door-to­door. You will need a campaign staff of 30 people or so, in order to canvass the campus with your campaign ma­terials, and to drum up grass-roots sup­port in each dorm. You must be able to control your people, since your ticket will be held totally responsible for their actions. No election should be a mud slinging free-for-all. I suggest that your platform consist of many traditional events, and also creative new events, but they should all be achieveable. Fi­nally, the winning ticket is usually the one that has knocked on every door on campus, and has best revealed their dedication to the class office that they are seeking. While campaigning, ask for new ideas from your classmates, and encourage them to get involved no matter who wins. 

In my brother's case, a usually happy Police should combat kid began experiencing sudden and ex­treme mood swings. One minute hecrime instead of parties might be ecstatic; the next he might 
Dear Editor: 
Much to my dismay I happened upon an article in the Feb. 13 Observer re­garding the problems of living off­campus. In response to that article, let me begin by addressing the residents of the Northeast neighborhood: Notre Dame students will live off-campus and this is as much their town as it is yours. Second, Notre Dame students aren't such a dangerous and evil group as you seem to think. We don't rape, kill, rob people at gun point or burglarize homes. These, however, seem to be reg­ular occurrences in your "precious" neighborhood which Notre Dame stu­dents fall victim to. If you really are so concerned about the quality of your neighborhood why not concentrate on the elements that are causing the crime, violence and insecurity, and quit using Notre Dame students as scapegoats. You should appreciate the fact that your student neighbors attend a small, private Catholic institution and not an out-of-hand state college. As far as rezoning, that may well be the fate the neighborhood deserves. "Say hello to your new neighbors and goodbye to your hubcaps!" 
I would next like to address myself to those so well respected South Bend officers of the law. I guess you guys never went to college. You can't seem to tell the difference between students hanging out and having a good time and the real crime which plagues these streets. Your attack dogs certainly can't tell the difference. Go ahead and polish up your night sticks and practice your chokeholds. 
In conclusion, I would like to add that I myself am an off-campus student. So far this year our house has been broken into five times, the stereo was ripped out of my car, and rocks have been thrown through our windows. It shouldn't be surprising that none of these times was one of those fine, upstanding South Bend police officers there to protect our rights, nor were any of our "concerned neighbors." It seems, however, that whenever we throw a party, a whole host of club­swinging, life-threatening puppets show up. And they weren't even invited. 
Mike Tessitore Le Keough Rick Kennedy 
come to me crying, searching for some­one to reassure him that his world was not falling apart. What most bothered him, I think, was he never knew why he felt what he did; his moods were unpredictable and often time un­motivated. 
When my brother's mood swings grew increasingly unpredictable and intense, his doctor hospitalized him. Physicians discovered that in his case a chemical imbalance caused the dis­order. They administered the drug Lit­hium, and monitored him for reactions. He improved steadily, and after two weeks was discharged. 
I infer, perhaps incorrectly, from Jacoby's story that her friend commit­ted suicide. Not all manic depressives consider killing themselves; my bro­ther never did. Even during his depres­sive mood swings he maintained an out­look that someday he'd get better. Now a freshman at an out-of-state college, my brother is just as normal as the rest of us. He just has to take two pills at breakfast to keep his body's chemicals on track. 
No one story completely charac­terizes all manic depressives. There are different causes for this disorder, and different symptoms. My brother was lucky to receive the care he did, and his problems were relatively short­lived. Mary Jacoby's friend was less fortunate. Manic depressives do often recover from their disorders, and go on to live normal, happy lives. 
Meg Egan Lewis Hall 

NVA thanks students for 'late night' support 
Dear Editor: 
The department of NVA wishes to thank all of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who participated in the Late Night Olympics a week ago. With your help, we had a great event and raised over $1700 for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
Thank you once again for your sup­port and interest in what we hope will be an annual event. 
Sally Derengoski Assistand Director Non-Varsity Athletics 

Off-Campus 
Manic depression may take different avenues 
Dear Editor: 
I read with interest Mary Jacoby's inside column of the Feb. 16th Observer on a childhood friend whom doctors diagnosed a manic depressive. Bipolar disorders have generated a lot of inter­est lately. I fear, however, that some readers of Jacoby's story may make false conclusions about the nature of these disorders. My brother was diagnosed a manic depressive two years ago. I know the misconceptions he's had to face. In writing this, I aim to clarify. In no way do I criticize Mary Jacoby's article. 
Not all manic depressives 'go crazy'. 
Viewpoint would like occa­sionally to highlight quotes from faculty members, students, and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly fun­ny, or clearly controversial, please send the quote to P .O.Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, In, 46556. 
General Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creedon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1988 

Accent 
fact of life. Your name is the luck of the draw. 
Take Elvis Presley, for exam­ple. The name Elvis is unfor­gettable and could have been a condemnation as easily as it was a blessing. It helped his career. But what if Elvis' mom had decided to call him Se used. Most of us are going to have an awesome responsibility on our shoulders in a few years and we could really screw up if we don't watch it. 
NAMES THAT IMPLY OBESITY: For girls, names like Agnes, Bertha, Deirdre, Gladys, Henrietta, Martha and Mildred to curse your kids, if you ask me. Hey, I like saying ''ennui" and "toilet," but I'd never name my kids because of it. 
OTHER PEOPLE'S NAMES: I don't know how many times I heard some poor hapless kid defend his name saying. "Ivan? I don't know. It's my grandfat­her's name or something." What parents in their right minds would torture a kid like that? Not me and I'm hoping 
not you. 

GIRLS NAMED LIKE GUYS AND GUYS NAMED LIKE GIRLS: This just never flew with me. There was this kid in my high school who could be counted on to go through hell on the first class day every semester. His name was Andrea. I can still hear the teacher calling out "Andrea!? Andrea?!" as she scanned the girls' side of the room. His hand would go up 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
ALL MY CHILDRI':N: Mark re· Camellia's reaction to the solved to get help fQr his drug news of his engagement to addiction after Ellen nearly Anna. died In the explosion. Jesse planned to inflltrate a baby· GUIDING LIGHT: The threat stealing ring. much to Angie's to Roxie remained. Mindy felt distress. Coming: Erica has an her life would no longer be upsetting thought about the same. There was still a Jeremy. great deal ofmystery that sur­
rounded Brixton's operations. 

ANOTHER WORLD: Nicole COming: Alex and Alan face a betrayed Peter and Reginald serious challenge against by giving Mitch information them. about Peter's whereabouts. Michael set fire to Donna's KNOTS LANDING: Greg's room so that they could es­rumored death set off a chain cape in the furor that fol· reaction and put Peter in a di­lowed. Adam learned the M.J. lemma. Val was frantic when lied about knowing Linda. Ben disappeared along with Coming: Chad has secret Greg. and worried that Ben plans for M.J. might have killed him. Believ­
Ing that Peter Is Greg's heir 

AS THE WORLD TURNS: apparent, Paige started Frannie realized she had to moving in on him. Coming: make changes in her life. Karen and Anne have a con­Margo fretted that she had frontation. been unfair to Tom. John's anger threatened to over­LOVING: Gwyneth warned shadow his judgment. Com­Clay she'll have a lawyer Ing: Craig makes a crucial protect her rights in a settle­decision about the future. ment. Nick worried that Tony 
might spill the beans about 

CAPITOL: Sam and Myrna the way Marla died. Trisha was prepared to face the shock of stunned when Cecilia asked to their past coming back to speak to her in private. Com· haunt them. Kelly had a lng: Steve feels he's trapped surprise for Thomas. Clarissa by something beyond his con­decided to follow her own trol to change. feelings about Baxter. Com­ing: Trey is drawn into a tug 
ONE Llfr: TO LIVE: Tina and of emotions. 
Max arrived at his range in Ar­

DALLAS: News from Califor­gentina unaware that Jamie nia raised questions at>out was already there. Vickie fell who really owned the elusive unconscious in her room after 10 percent of Ewing Oil The losing her children's custody quiet search for Jack Ewing to Clint. The doctor suspected continued by J.R. and April. she had a brain tumor. Com· Christopher and John Ross lng: Clint gets mixed signals played a potentially deadly about Vickie. game. Coming: Donna 
RYAN'S HOPE: Max shot

decides to fight back. Jack. Siobhan got the gun, DAYS OF OUR LIVES: Kim pushing Max back into a was found guilty of Emma's raging torrent. Delia told murder. Later, Kim and Shane Roger to go home, but Roger admitted they still loved each realized he had no home to other and after making love, go to. Jackie told Joe she'll Shane proposed to her again. get a Mexican divorce and Robin got the board to recon­Siobhan said she and Joe sider. their decision to drop would remarry. Coming: New Mike from the leukemia pro­and shocking secrets about gram. Coming: Shane gets a Max come through. surprise in his investigation of Barbara. SANTA BARBARA: Jeffrey FALCON CRf':ST:_ Maggie and Kelly escaped before had her baby prematurely. Keith could nab them. During Richard offered to sign the a sensory deprivation test, birth certificate for Maggie's each fantasized about making baby, but Chase surprised love to the other. C.C. and everyone by doing it himself. Sophia watched as Gina tried Tony lied to Lance about to embezzle $25,000 from Kolinski in an effort to protect C.C. via a computer. Mason Kit. Angela conspired with told Tori he arranged for them Roland to ruin Richard. Com· to marry. Coming: Lionel is ing: Melissa's behavior causes torn between his feelings for some ruffled feathers. Caroline and his concern for Alice. GENI':RAL HOSPITAL: Camellia was unaware that THE YOUNG l!t THE Rf':ST· Abigail had paved the way for LESS: John's shock at learn­her to Jearn the secret hidden ing the truth about Ashley in the needlepoint. She was brought on new problems for shocked to find out that she him. The rift between Brad was not Angus' daughter, that and Jack deepened. Victor her father Is the ~ron Varony suspected that Nikki might and hermother was a servant know more about her Illness girl. Jake and Bobble made than she should. Coming: arrangements to hire a new Andy begins to consider surrogate mother. Coming: making a difficult decision. Duke has new reason to fear 1987, McNaught Syndicate 
In the past when asked 

my name, I've tried to rep­ly, "Walsh. Kevin Walsh." For a while I tried to pretend that my name had the same resonance as James Bond's, but I was wrong. Of course. 
Some names just don't work as well as others. It's a pitiful 
Kevin Walsh 
Behind the screen door 

Orville?) should go into some name time capsule somewhere so that people can laugh at them in a hundred years, but they should be banned from ever being used. 
So, I'm just going to lay down some guidelines here about names that shouldn't be 

ley. His shirts would have been initialled SAP and for good rea­son. I don't see Seymour as a major rock 'n' roll star. The chicks would not scream for Seymour. History would have been changed. Actually, Elvis started to look a lot more like a Seymour in the later days when he was in Las Vegas singing Sinatra songs in a white, rhinestone pantsuit looking like a sweaty Pat Sum­merall with sideburns. 
On the flip side of that what would have happened to Her­man Hitler? Or what if Napoleon had been named Charo? World domination would still be a wide open field. 
With all this in mind, I'd like to start a motion to outlaw cer­tain names from everyday usage. For Instance, look at your grandparent's real names (not Wa-Wa or Doody or whatever childish pet name you created for them as a kid) and you can be pretty sure that those names should be retired. Any name used in The Far Side can safely be abolished. All the names of the Brady kids can be counted among the mis­sing. I mean, could you name somebody Bobby, or Cindy, or Marsha in good conscience?? No. The names of all the astronauts (Buzz? Gordo?) and both Wright brothers (Wilbur? 
are being tipped a little higher than they should be. For guys, names like Archibald, Claude, Edgar, Herbert and Leonard imply the use of an eighteen­wheeler weigh-in station for the morning weight check. 
HILLBILLY NAMES: These are mainly composed of two perfectly fine names stuck to­gether for unknown reasons, like Billy Bob or Daisy Mae. We're really playing with fire when we talk about compound names because they suggest serious defects of character. Defects like warts, genetic in­feriority or turning into one of the Waltons without warning are implied in compound names. Even if you're not like that after a few years, people will think you are. 
NAMES THAT YOU WOULDN'T WANT TO HEAR ON A REGULAR BASIS: I used to know somebody named Gay. No joke. How do you greet somebody named Gay? "Hey, Gay!?" No. "Having a good day, Gay?" Wrong. I often wondered if the deficiencies in her char­acter were caused by hearing that silly name every day. Think about it. 
NAMES THAT YOU LIKE THE SOUND OF: This is a great one. People who name their kids Milton or Claudia just because they've "always thought it's pretty." It's a pretty twisted wa tentatively. His face would turn 
red. Everybody in the class 
would wince. 

"Urn, here," he would reply, then in the manner of a bruised puppy, he'd add, "Uh, I like to be called Andy ... " Once he went over the brink. "ITS GERMAN, OK??! ITS NOT ONLY A GIRL'S NAME!!?" Then he began babbling things like "It's only a name... " and " ... it's all my parent's fault. .. " It was not pretty. I think somebody told me he's a wanted criminal now. Another pathetic case of being stigmatized by a name. 
"CUTE" NAMES: Does anybody realize what hell it would be to be named someth­ing cute like Robby or Laurie? Initial names sometimes get a little too cute also. No J.J.'s or A.B.'s allowed. 
JUST PLAIN UGLY NAMES: Claire, Claudia, Eleanor, Ethel. and Harriet as serious names should be wiped off the face of the earth. Who can take a Henry, Lester or Theodore seriously? 
NAMES WITH NICKNAMES: Don't name your kid Richard, Chip, Art, Dirk, Jack or Chuck. 
Just don't. 

So let's really keep this in mind. We literally have not only the names, but in fact the char­acters of the entire next gener­ation. Let's not blow it. We still have time. 
Monday, February 23, 1987-page 8-9 
Junior Parents party 
Photography by Zoltan Ury 

-

Religion 
Monday, February 23, 1987 -page 10 

Marriage: The love of God 
The beauty of the sacrament of marriage is that it is an opportunity for a couple to experience God's love in a new way through each other, said Tracy Sandman, coordinator of marriage preparations program at Notre Dame's Univeristy Ministry. 
In an interview Friday Sandman said engaged couples need to seriously ask each other if their mar­riage will last forever; it is a chance to reflect on their own sense of faith. The couple needs to "see how God acts in their own life and how they experience God through the love of their partner," she said. 
--Marriage involves unconditional love she said, adding, ''The mystery to me is that in experiencing that type of love in another person, you can begin to experience the love of God." Sandman said the program she runs is specifically geared to engaged couples but "a lot of couples have come to us who are thinking about be.:oming engaged." The preengaged, as she calls them, consider issues about whether or not their relation­ship is mature; what attracts them to each other, and whether or not those attractions are life-time attractions. Infatuation is a key element espe­cially with physical attraction, she said, adding, "A mature relationship 
goes way beyond just the physical part of the relationship." 
With engaged couples, the most common problem they have is how to fight with each other and resolve conflict, she said. Each individual has a different way of dealing with con­flict. Usually one person will want to discuss the problem immediately where as the other person may need to step back from the situation in order to discuss the problem calmly, she said. 
"Each person has to let the partner know what they need at that time," she said. It is difficult for an engaged couple to fight because they are so much in love, they don't know how to share a negative feeling. Also during engagement, she added, it is easy to overlook the negative feelings. 
When an engaged couple comes to see Sandman, they are instructed on the requirements of the Church. The couple can either attend a weekend retreat or enter into the host couple program. This involves the engaged couple meeting with a married couple in their home discussing different aspects of married life. 
The engaged couple is also given the pre-marital inventory survey. This is a questionaire given to each person individually. Categories in­clude questions concerning: realistic expectations, personality issues, com­munication, conflict resolution, finan­cial management, leisure activities, sexual relationship, children and marriage, family and friends, equalitarian roles and religious orien­tation. 

"The inventory is only a reflection of the relationship at this point in time," Sandman said. The couple is not given their scores, but instead they are given the number of items they agreed on and disagreed on. "If the couple had many disagreements, we ask them to reflect on the rela­tionship." 
The length of dating is important especially for college-age students, she said. It is helpful to have separa­tion and see each other in different settings, other than school. It is a myth or misconception that there is only one person for everyone, she said. "Young couples divorce because they meet someone else who they are equally attracted to," and thus feel challenged and scared, she said. It is normal to feel attraction towards another, but the person shouldn't act upon it. There must be a commitment to the relationship and that's the trick: "making it work," she said. 
Margie Kersten is Saint Mary's editor and religion page editor for The Ob­server. 
A priest's view on marriage 
What does a priest know about marriage, or a celibate about sexuality? What can one who has chosen a more solitary way of life say about intimacy? What does reli­gion have to do with relationships? 
I don't pretend to be an expert about marriage, but I do claim to have a sense for the spiri­tual1>acramental dimension oi mar­riage and relationships that comes from experience, reflection and many hours of conversation with couples. 
Christians consider marriage a sacrament. There's nothing magical about sacraments -mysterious per­haps, but not magical. A couple doesn't actually "get married" at their wedding. The wedding is a celebrationproclamation of the mar­riage, the lived commitment; it begins before the organ bellows "The Wedding March," or should I say before the guitarist strums "The Wedding Song," and continues, hope­fully, long after the lights go out and the church is empty. 
A wedding, like the celebration of the other sacraments, is a sacred moment that proclaims God's pres­ence and action in our lives -that's 
the mystery -not just at the moment of celebration but "as it was in the beginning, is now and ever shall be." In the Eucharist we are reminded ~hat God nourishes and sustains us all the time. In Reconciliation we celebrate the undefeated love of the 
God who blesses us with forgiveness in the midst of our folly, simul justus et peccator, (we are at the same time just and sinful) . In marriage we are witness to the fact that God is one with us as love makes us one, and that this unity is no fly-by-night affair in a cheap motel, but is committed, forever, and is lived out in the temple of God that is our body!Self. 
God's ways were made most visible to us in the person of Jesus, the sacrament par excellence of God. We 
know through his life, death and resurrection that God, like any good lover, has given himherself to us totally and has entered intimately into the darkest corners of humanity. 

When a couple unite themselves in marriage they join in the chorus whose voice gives praise not only to the love they have for each other, but also to the composer of the composi­tion. The harmony of their life to­gether is related to, and a reflection of, the one who wrote the tune. From time to time our voice goes flat and our timing is off. Sacraments survive our inadquacies. It is important that we sing on key, but even when we do not, even when disharmony strains a marriage, it remains, if the couples see it through, a sign of the fact that God is with us in good times and in bad, for better and for worse. 
What I have written barely touches the surface of the mystery that lies at the heart of our life and our relation­ships. What it boils down to is, God's love is us, and through our lives the sacrament of hisher presence is in­carnate. 
Father Tom Stella is a campus mini­ster with Saint Mary's Campus Mini­stry. 
Consider breaking your engagement •.• 
1. 
IF you have known each other for less than three months. 

2. 
IF h&She has been drunk three times in the last three weeks or ten times in the last three. or four months. 

3. 
IF h&the makes statements like, "I owe a great deal to mother, it's my duty to make her happy/' ... and IF such statements are coupled with behavior which makes it apparent that h&the will do "most anything to keep paren­tal approval." 

4. 
IF one party says things like, "I can't live without you. My life has no meaning apart from you. IF I ever lost you I would kill myself." 

5. 
IF the majority of times you have been together in the last three months you have developed a "pattern of quarelling, of disap­pointing, seriously irritating or hurting" each other. 

6. 
IF many of the significant, ma­ture people in your life-parents, relatives, teachers and especially good friends who love you • indi­cate that you are making a mis­take. 

7. 
IF some very serious problem has come up in the last few weeks and IF it is definitely troubling you and IF you have not had an oppor­tunity to work it through. 

8. 
IF he-She has had more that five or six jobs in the last two years. 

9. 
IF your chief reason for marry­ing is that everybody in your circle of friends is doing it and you feel it is high time you did too. 

10. 
IF you have been sexually involved and now feel you have to marry each other even though the relationship is already a little boring and empty. 

11. 
IF you are marrying because you "just have to get out of the house." 

12. 
IF you are a pregnant couple ask the question: Would we really go through with it IF there were no pregnancy? 


IA![J 
Reprinted by pennls.lon from tile No«re Dame Unlveralty Ministry. 

---~E THOMAS J.---.
Anti-VIolence Activist 
Center lor Teaching Non·VitHerlC8 & NCTV full· lime ll&ff. Lodging & ...00/mo. Research on aggr.tasion, publishing & lobbying againal violvnce 
~~~~..~
in TV, film, war toya, IPOtla, erotica, 
elc_ Non-voolenl filma. Neallo U Illinois. 
Sludenlloano deferable. 217·384-1920. 
P_O. Box 2157. Champaign 11. 31820 

S\)~d~0G ND·SMC 
~ STUDENTS 
14th Annual Program 
May 20-June 19 
Rome 

Travel in Ireland, 
June 14-Julyl3

Scotland and France 
Travel in France, Germany and Switzerland 
Organizational & Informational Meeting Feb 24, 7 pm.
Yes, the birthday 

boy-Dave Culligan Carroll Hall, SMC Pass port photos will be taken. is Come IJisit with last years students oiJer refreshments.
BACK ON HIS FEET! 
for more info, contact Happy 20th Dave! Prof. Black 4460 or 272-:3726 
HITECENTER FORLAWAND 
GOVERNMENT 
Notre Dame Law School 
presents a lecture by 
William B. Ball, Esq. Ball & Skelly Harrisburg, PA 
on 

Religious Liberty in the Courtroom Wednesday, Feb. 25 noon Room 121 Law School 
--------------------------------------------------~-------­
The Observer Monday, February 23, 1987 -page 11 
Sports Briefs 
ND football coach Kurt Schottenheimer will leave his position as outside linebacker coach and take a job this season with the NFL's Cleveland Browns, Irish head coach Lou Holtz learned Friday. Schotten­heimer, who was hired by Holtz last season, will coach !iPecial teams at Cleveland for his brother Marty, the head coach of the Browns. The departure leaves Holtz with two coaching vacancies to fill. Mike Stock, former running backs coach, accepted a job last week with the NFL's Cincinnati Bengals. -The Observer 
The ND indoor track team was edged by Purdue, 101-98, for second place in the Indiana Intercollegiates this weekend. Indiana won the meet. Details will appear in tomorrow's issue. -The Observer 
SMC intramural basketball begins the first week of March. Entry forms are available at Angela Ath­letic Facility and are due no' later than Feb. 25. There is a $10 fee per team. -The Observer 
The OC hockey team will practice tomorrow at 7:15p.m. and Wednesday at 5:45p.m. Both practices will be at Howard Park. -The Observer 
Boris Becker defeated Stefan Edberg 6-4, 6-4, 7-5, yesterday to win the Pilot Penn Classic at Grand Cham­pions Resort. -Associated Press 
The Notre Dame tennis team lost to Northern Illinois Friday, 7-2. Saturday, participating in a quadran­gular meet, the Irish beat Toledo, 7-2, to give Coach Tom Fallon his sooth career victory. They also lost to Southern Illinois Saturday, 7-2, and also to Iowa Sunday, 7-2. -The Observer 
Tze-Chung "T.C." Chen defeated Ben Crenshaw in a playoff to claim the Los Angeles Open Golf title. -Associated Press 
In the NHL last night, the New York Islanders beat New Jersey, 7-0, Winnipeg beat Edmunton, 5-2, Buffalo topped Hartford, 5-3, and Pittsburgh took a 4-2 victory over the New York Rangers. -Associated Press 
In NBA action last night, the Los Angeles Lakers beat Philadelphia in overtime, 112-110, Detroit beat New York, 122-110, and Chicago topped Cleveland, 102-98. In­diana also defeated Sacramento, 103-101. -Associated Press 
Perry McDonald scored a career-high 26 points as No. 11 Georgetown beat No. 9 Syracuse, 72-71, before an NCAA-record crowd of 32,602 at the Carrier Dome. ­Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Blue Demons top G. Tech 
Associated Press 
Dallas Comegys scored a career-high 33 points and Rod Strickland added 28, leading fourth-ranked DePaul to an 84­67 triumph over Georgia Tech. 
The victory was the ninth straight for the Blue Demons, who improved their record to 25-1. Georgia Tech, which upset Duke 79-72 on Saturday, fell to 16-9. 
DePaul led 21-16 at halftime, then outscored Georgia Tech 9­4 during a second-half spurt to take a 54-43 lead. DePaul took command in the second half despite the fact that Comegys sat out nearly four minutes with four fouls. 
The Blue Demons fell behind 8-2 early in the game as they made only one of their first 11 shots from the field. 
Georgia Tech held a 21-17 lead when Kevin Edwards scored for the Blue Demons. Edwards followed with a steal and a dunk to tie the game at 21-all. Rod Strickland put DePaul ahead with 3:42 left in the half and Comegys scored six of DePaul's last eight points before intermission. 

The ObHner Notre Dame otflc.. located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified a<lvertlslng from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObMner Salr.; Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next.Oay classlfieds Is 3 p.m. All classLfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by rru~ll. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
Attention May Oradell I am willing to ew· 1ST SOURCE BANK Thank you St. Jude for your help· .... STUDENT OPENING ·••• change hotel rooms for graduation tick· Buy or leaae a car. 238-2200. Fl~anc­Thank you St. Jude for your help· American Impressionists
L...--_NO_T_IC_Es_,J L-1_W_A_NT_E_D____J 
ets. Seats must be In the dome. Call lng available lor all US atatea. Thank you St. Jude for your help-Snits Museum of Art Robert 1546 Wednesday, February 25 TYPING AVAILABLE 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 7·9, lectureotafreshments 287-4082 
GOVERNMENT JOBSt Now hiring in 
FOR SALE PHONE·A-THONF4 CHEAP RT AIRLINE TIX SB TO CHAR· .... STUDENT OPENING •••• your area, both skilled and unskilled. For BON JOVI WHEN· FEB 18-18, 23-28; 6:30-9:30PM LOTTE NOLYNCHBURG VA :¥13-23list ol jobs and application. Call (615) 
MARCH 41~ WHERE • 2nd FLOOR NO ADMIN BLD CALL3194 SUMMER IN EUROPE $279 
383·2627 EJC1 J316 

UIC PAVILION, CHICAGO WHY -THE WOMEN'S CARE CENTER I'm not sure why, JOHN CASKO, but I Lowest Scheduled Fares to all ol Europe 
CALL DAWN 264·4171 IS A PREGNANCY HELP CENTER HAPPY 21 PAUL VETTER. HERE YOU think I'd like to meet you .....An onlooker lrom Ch1cago. Call 1(800) 325-2222. 
THAT RUNS ON VOLUNTEERS AND GO BABE. SORRY IT TOOK SO LONG, 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, DONATIONS. WE NEED TO RAISE OH AND I FORGIVE YOU FOR OUR BEWARE TRENDSETTERS! Wordprocesslng· Typing 
yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, NEED 3 STUD· TICKETS FOR DEPAUL $25,000 • $30,000. LAST PHONE CONVERSATION I Kerry Glll'a ...., Club h.. your E 272·8827 
Asia. ALl fields. $900·2000 GAME. CALL 232·6917 WE NEED STUDENT HELP IN CALL· KNOW YOU CAN'T HELP IT. HOPE 15-0, 15-0 mo.Sightseaing.Free lnlo.Write IJC. PO lNG POTENTIAL DONORS YOUR BIRTHDAY IS FUN, WE'LL SEE BX 52·1N4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 CONTACT YOUR ND-SMC RIGHT TO YOU AT THE BARS, LOVE, KATY,Typing 
WILL PAY CASH LIFE DORM REP FOR MORE INFOR· YOUR ONLY FRIEND WHO REMINGTON STEELE FANS Free Pickup and Delivery 
NEED TO BUY FOR DEPAUL GA TIX'S . MATtON DOESN'TIIIII HELP! My roomm1te (TITO) acr-ed 277·7406 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PRINTER & CALL KEVIN OR CALL KRIS N0·2550 · OR up end dldn, tape tiMI t..t 2 hr. SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233·7722 277-3786 THERESA SMC·4096 Hey Fagbrealh, Slimeball, Geebus, eplaode. II you know anybody who OR 239·4478. Wiener, Goober, and BUDDAH· Feliz taped the 2'17 ehow pte..• cell 2n­EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
Cumpleanosl (See, I am a Spanish whiz) 0973 end Nk lor Tito. Compenutlon MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
So, you're finally lagall No more using will be provided. I need a ride to MILWAUKEE for the Smythe's 10-("0h, they're green, blue, or NOTRE DAME<MARQUETIE gamellll Need a ride to Cleveland. Any weekend. hazel, depending on what I SOUTH DINING HALL ADMIRER: Meet Anyone Interested 1n working on the 
Please help me and call Ann·Marie al Call Miriam at 283·2687. wear" .. ."Sorry,llsays they're brown") and me Tues. 10:QO p.m. at Stonehenge UN· Vrdolyak campaign lor mayor of Chicago 
4015. NEEDED: Two GA's for the Miami(Fia.) everyone at our ragular places won't TIL THEN ... Mi\ Shes can csll John at 3558 or K1m at 4440 game. THANK YOU ST. JUDE. believe ltl AHer tonight maybe someone HELPI WE NEED A RIDE OR RIDERS Please call liz at 2738 besides ME will have puked In both of T.G. ROCKET BLASTS OFFI TO ST. LOUIS. LEAVING FRIDAY 2'.27 WIN A VCRIIIII Be a caller for the Wo· your rooms...and speaking of memories, (or It It gets blasted?) AND RETURNING SUNDAY 311. men's Care Center Phone·a·Thon Come you've given me the best. Thanks for for 20. Have a happy B·Day. to the Ad. Bldg/ Room212··Feb. 23·27, Happy
PLEASE CALL DEBBIE AT w4304 OR everything, and Birthday, you CHRIS AT w3769. 6·9:30 studl Mucho (more Spanish!) hugs and kisses · Je t'alme (French, tool) Your JUST A FAMILY TRADITION. 
LOST/FOUND I 
PERSONALS

LOST at JR. Formal: Grey Kuppenhelmer Earn $2000-4000. Gain valuable busl· Are you singing the blues? learn effec· Ohio SMC chic P.S. Be careful • you Pocket Rocket says HELLO Tweed. h Is my roommate's and I want ness ewperience. Be the NO Sales & Mar· tive ways lo cope with depresaion Tues· might freeze If you wash your carl to the ROCKET and T.G. ROCKET lo live with him newt year so I need II day 6:30·7:30 Annapolis Room, LaFor·
keting Director for Campus Connection, back. FOUND at JR. Formal: Grey our nationally ewpandlng Innovative ad· OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, tune Student Center Dear Aca, Old you think I would miss the Tweed. Call DaVId at 1454 vertlsing guide. Currently at 42 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE opportunity to SCREAM In public? No IS IT LOVE? or just sew? Don't tell the universrties·we'll provide complete train· wayl HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Mooreover, I IRSII '•
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. WVFI T·SHIRT SALE NOTRE DAME'S LOST: One blue ski jackal in the pool· PROGRESSIVE MUSIC STATION
lng, materials, and support. Call Chris LOve youl KQ P.S. What did you say 
room of LaFortun on V131f found, please RETURNS TO THE AIRWAVES MARCH LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE SEX
Kelsey, Manager, at(805) 564·1260 for you were doing for lunch, ... ? Golla love call 2547 or relum to 225 howard. There 1 SUPPORT THE "BIG TURN-ON" BY SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX LOVE SEX
complete information. Ideal for ambrtious, HI 11 a Va 1en11nes card In the pocket with 
PURCHASING A COLORFUL TWO LOVE SEX LDY£ SEX AND THE IRSI my name and address Apr. DRUIDS: PRINT T·SHIRT FOR ONLY $6.001 siiNioi:i··-vioeo··:··siiN.ii:i'Fi"liiiieii:i..~· THIS SPRING'S HOTTEST PRODUC· Thera will be an organizational meeting BRIGHT SPRING COLORS WILL EN· SENIOR VIDEO • SENIOR VIDEO • TION FROM THE ST. ED'S HALL FOUND: Small peart bracelet at THeo's for all bretheren at a secret location and HANCE YOUR BODY ON FLORIDA SENIORS • Last chance · deadline to PLAYERS. 
personable freshman·junior. Start In Mar· 
SUMMER JOBS lrlday. Call 3758 1o ldanllly. time. Please call4074 for Info. Dlscuased IN SKI senior class
All LAND AND WATER SPORTS BEACHES, COLORADO buy the video is Fridey, ADIRONDACK
PRESTIGE CAMPS will be ceremonial rituals, candidates for LODGES, ETC. SUPPLIES March 6. Make checks payable to SPE· 
LOST: GUMBY KEY CHAIN WITH 5 sacrifice, and the death th•eats the LIMITED...NO STUDENTS CALL PAT CIAL MOMENTS COLLECTION for KEYS • CALL 1670 CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381· Archdruid haa been receving lately. 277·3687, SMC STUDENTS CALL $47.50. Send to 735 LeMans Hall, SMC. HELP! I desperately need a ride to the MONIQUE 264·5173 FOR DELIVERYIII Plttsburghol..aiPIIM area this weekend. 
MOUNTAINS 

4224 Delivery Is graduation weekend. 
LOST: LADIES GOLD WATCH WITH Druids unite . . . Can leave Friday (Feb. 27) at I O:OOam. 
Call Maur-•l!84·5230. TWEEN GALVIN AND WALSH for 2, will share awpenses. Call Frank REGULATION CUTS · $4.50 AROUND LUNCHTIME TUES(171h). IT 
CIRCULAR FACE, SOMEWHERE BE· HEADED TO S.E. FLORIDA? Need ride ATTENTION R.O.T.C. 
ND-SMC SUMMI!'II I'PIOGRAMS 1208 ALWAYS PERFECT Knock Knock Are you who I thinl< youWAS A X·MAS GIFT IF FOUND, 
LONDON (MAY 2ChiUNE 19) ROM£ VITO'S BARBERSHOP are? How will I know . how will I know ? PLEASE CALL 2646. 
FOR SALE 

(JUNE 14-JULY 13) 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
TRAYIL IREL,SCOT,ENG,FR HELPII Desperately need ride to Purdue SOUTH BEND • 233-4767 Precious, the weekend wasn't the aame MISSING: Were you at LNO last Friday, 
AIRTIX CHICAGO-SAN ANTONIO FOR ,GER,SWITZ,ITALY. NINE COLLEGE this wknd(20·22) and neJC1 wknd(27·29). without you. Not ollly did I miss you ter· did you pick up a blue NO aweatshlrt w11 
SPRING BREAK; $125 ROUND TRIP COURSES AVAILABLE MEETING FEB Will share ewpenses. Call Dan at 1462 rlbly but I really needed to borrow your soccar ball and a St. lahm lnacriptlon on 24, 7:00PM, CAitltOU HAU SMC;
CALL ANNIE 1704 toothbrush. Re,_,oor, you only have It, If so call Mike at 4335 or return to 159 PASSPORT PICTURES AVAILABLE, one strike leftl Cutle 
All DRUIDS MUST DIE ... ALL DRUIDS MARDI GRAS BAU
Zahm FOR INFO, CALL PROF A.R. BLACK MUST OlE... All DRUIDS MUST Friday, 27 February 1987284-4480 OR 272-3728 DIE ... All DRUIDS MUST DIE ... Theodore's · 7:00pm to 2:00amLOST: One room key to Alumni at Junior 
TICKETS ·featuring Johnny Knorr and his Orchestra 
Formal. If found. please call Paul at 1209. THE YELLOW SUBMARINE I lhOUQhf you'd never ask//
Sir, I must insist that you cease these (a 131llece swing band) until I O:OOpm 
f'd...,.te.

Thanks. We deliver til midnight dally 
improper and prejudiced ramblings. If you Costume or formal attire requestedBuy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free
NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. do not, you leave us no altemative but $3 admission · Includes mask
LOST: Grey Britches Backpeck, Spanish til March 1. books inside, from the Huddle Wed. night 272-4453 
CALL 4334. sacrifice to the Gods of Summer. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Chapel ;:~·~ii·;;;;·;;d;;;;;bj~·;;;;~;·;h~·;;;;;;;·;;;y 2·18 Please call Maura £3727 22nd birthday as apeclal as my 21 at or 
·the Archdruld Choir, the Notre Dame Chorale, and SAB HELPI ALUMNI WILLING TO KILL FOR any other, /love you a//lo placesI Really!
4 DEPAUL GA'S. SAVE A LIFEI CALL 
LOST: Groen suade jacket al Bridget's NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Thanks for milking me feel so wonderful I 
MARTY·1471 

on Thurs. 2'19. Please, I need the keys Sell your teJC1books at PANDORA'S :iiii:ii'i:i::·::::;;;;;··;;;;·ii'~;;;;~:::: ................. KM 
FREE DANCING LESSONS
de~peratalyl Call 264·5010 H found all BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. 
in preparation for the Mardi Gras Bellnext week 
just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 ;:::t;;,i·;;;,~~;·ii:~·ii~i~ii·~~·~~~·k;;;;~··:.·; 
4:00 to 5:00pm · Theodore's
................................................................ •t WAS HERE FOR TEO'S LAST YEAR" 
................................................................ Monday, 23 Feb. through Thursday, 26 
What would SPRING BREAK be like .............................................. t·ahlrts 
Feb.
I need a arouo of 2.3. or 4 DEPAUL GAs $6 delivered I Call 4127 or 1 028 
without your •• Spring Break Travel to New Vorl<? •• Sponsored by the NOOMC BallroomCALL 2073 RAY BANS RAY IIANS RAY BANS

FOR RENT 
Dance Club 
•• Buy Now I S.WO •• •••• STUDENT OPENING ••••RAY BANS RAY BANS You kn-you 
•• $90 RT nw to Newarl< •• American Impressionists
I NEED 4 DE PAUL GAs TAMMY 264· W8nt tiMim. You know you need tiMim. WELL COME AND GET THEM! CALL
ROOMMATE WANTED ASAI'I 4057 •• Laave 3112, Return :¥.!1 •• Construction, Drivers. Welders, Mac· Snlte Museum of Art 
•• Call X3586 NOW •• hinlsts. Will train some positions. (Up to CALL CLAIRE 2n-5388 NEED 1 DEPAUL STUDENT OR G.A. $6000tnonth). TransContinental Job 7·9, teawretefreahmenta 
HICKORY VLG. 1150tno. TIM AT 1801, RM. 324 DILLON! Wedneeday, February 25 
"THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN" TICKET CALL MIKE 2180 Search (303) 452·2258 tee. •••• STUDENT OPENING •••• 
································································ 
-~--~­

The Observer Monday, February 23, 1987 -page 12 
SMC swimmers beaten by Calvin, place fourth in Grand Valley Invite 

By JANE SHEA 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's swim team lost to Calvin College on Wed­nesday by a score of 138-97 bringing its record to 5-4. 
"We had the overall depth, but we did not place high scores in all events," said Head Coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz. 
Sophomore Peggy Halloran . swam very well and won both the 500-yard and 1000-yard freestyle with times of 5:53.47 and 12:01.85. 
Meghan Rafferty, a junior, took first in the 100-yard back with a time of 1:08.78. Senior captain Patty Juckniess placed third in that event with a time of 1:10.77. 
The Belles were also winners in the 400-yard relay with a team consisting of Rafferty, Halloran, freshman Julie Courtney and Erin Tierney. Their time was 4:08.20 
Honeyghan keeps belt 
Associated Press 
WEMBLEY, Eng., -Brit­ain's Lloyd Honeyghan stopped American challenger Johnny Bumphus in two explosive rounds to retain his World Boxing Council and Interna­tional Boxing Federation wel­terweight titles. 
Referee Sam Williams of Detroit halted the contest ­scheduled for 15 rounds -after 55 seconds of the second round when the challenger, from Mount Laurel, N.J., was caught on the ropes and heading for a third visit to the canvas. 
Honeyghan already had floored the 26-year-old Ameri­can in the first round and also knocked him down -illegally, according to the referee -at the start of the second. 
"We did, as a whole, put in some good individual perfor­mances for our last meet," said Kuzmitz. 
On Friday and Saturday Saint Mary's swam in the Grand Valley Invitational and came in fourth out of eight teams with a score of 231. 
Rafferty swam excellently winning the 100-yard back and taking third in the 200-yard back. Her first-place time of 
1: 08.02 made her eligible for Nationals. 
In the 500-yard free Jennifer Veslik, a junior, had her best time of the season of 6:21.75. 
Sophomore Jenny Mac-Dougall placed 12th overall and was in three individual events on Friday. 
All the relay teams placed in the top seven places on both Friday and Saturday. 
The Belles have 10 swimmers going to Nationals on March 6 and 7. 

throw stripe, while the Utes hit looking for a set fast-break play on 15-of-25. off Stevenson's free throws, but
Utes 
Notre Dame outrebounded Fulton took it himself and the hosts by a 31-16 margin, and pulled up with the off-balance
continuedfrom page 16 
led by a point, 31-30, at the half. three-pointer. chibald. "I think our kids "We got the ball to the right played well with some of our "We rebounded well," said person," Archibald said. "He best players on the bench with Phelps. Junior Gary Voce led probably should have taken it foul trouble." the team with nine. "We shoot right down inside. He got cau­
A total of 47 personals were fouls very well but, tonight, we tious and pulled up after he called in the contest-26 on Utah didn't shoot well at all from the looked around for a pass. Some­and 21 on the Irish. Notre Dame line." times you execute, and some­shot 22-of-33 from the free-Archibald said he was times you don't." 
:**** * ******** ** *'***** : 
: DISTINGUISHED STUDENT ~ 
: ~ AWARD : ~ 
: * 
: Once again the Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nomina-:* tions from February 10 to February 28 for their annual Distinguished * : Student Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor : : an outstanding senior student at the University based on the following :* criteria: * : 1. Service to Notre Dame : 
* * 
: 2. Service to the Community : 
* *
! 3. Good Academic standing ! 
* Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association office on the 2nd *: : floor of the Administration Building, University Ministry offices -Badin * : Hall and Memorial Library and the Center for Social Concerns. : 
* * 
: Nominations must be submitted to the Alumni Association by February 28. : 
***************************************************~** 
IllALUMNI=====
SENIOR 

&!:CLUB 
Applications for the 1987-1988 The two available positions are: Assistant Managers of the Alumni­Asst. Manager for Food'Supplies Senior Club can be picked up in the Asst. Manager RentaiS'Promotions Student Activities Office. 
The deadline for all applications is Job descriptions are displayed in March 6, 1987. Interviews will be the Student Activities Office. held March 30, 31 and April 1, 2. 

...--------------------­
The Observer Monday, February 23, 1987 -page 13 

Break away with Clark Telecommunications FREE airfare to Florida. To enter our "Break Away Sweepstakes;· you must be a registered Notre Dame student and you must be 18 or
Are you tired of this Northern Indiana winter yet? 
older. Complete the entry form below and bring it to CTI'sLonging for warm sunshine? Sandy beaches? A place in on-campus office, Room G89 in the Notre Dame library.
the sun where you can relax and get away from the books Official entry forms are also available there. Current Notrefor a while? How does Florida sound? 
Dame customers may enter, and there is no purchaseWhen you sign up for CTIIong distance between now necessary.
and February 25, you become eligible to win round trip The deadline for entry is February 25, 1987. So don'tairfare to the Florida city of your choice for you and a delay. You could break away to Florida this spring I
friend...the GRAND PRIZE in CTI's "Break Away Sweepstakes:· 
There is also a FIRST PRIZE of a $100 gift certificate to 
a • -
Tippicanoe Place and two SECOND PRIZES of $75 in • --• -• CTIIong distance calls. And the first 50 students who ta. ~ • • sign up for CTI quality long distance through this sweep---. . stakes offer will receive $5 in free long distance calls. ClarkTelec011111Jn1Cat1011S, Inc. 
,--0 Yes. Sign me;for C~ng distanc~ -------OFFICIAL BREAK AWAY SWEEPSTAKES RULES ---, 
I D I already use CTIIong distance but enter me in the No pu~hase necessary. . . . l
sweepstakes ' 1. CTis Break Away Sweepstakes 1s open to all reg1stered, full or part-t1me · Notre Dame students 18 years or older. Employees of CTI and their families, 1
I D No. I'm not interested in long distance but enter me its s~bsidiarie~. advertising and sweepstakes age~ts are not eligi~le. Win-
in th t k ' ners names w1ll be posted at CTI's on-campus off1ce, Room G89, hbrary. I 
1 e sweeps a es. 2. To enter the sweepstakes, complete the entry form and return it to Room G89 in the library between 8 am and 5 pm Monday through Friday. Entry deadline is 5 pm February 25. All entries must be on official entry forms I
I 
available either in the CTI ad in the Notre Dame Observer or in CTI's on­1 Name campus office, Room G89, library. One entry per student. Not responsible for 1 lost, late or misdirected entries. School Address 3. Winners will be selected in a random drawing to be held on February 27, II 1987. All prizes will be awarded. By entering this sweepstakes, entrants agreed to be bound by these rules and the decision of the judges will be final. Stu ent ID# Winners will be notified by telephone. No prize substitutions are allowed. I
I 
4. Prizes consist of the following: GRAND PRIZE Two round-trip plane tickets 
Telephone # to the Florida city of your choice. Tickets must be used by December 31, 1987 1I and are subject to flight availability. Arrangements for the flight will be made 1 Return this entry form to Room G89 in the library between 8 am through CTI. Taxes if any are the sole responsibility of the winners. Prizes are \ 
and 5 P"!, ~onday through Friday. Entry deadline is February 25, non-transferable. FIRST PRIZE One $100 gift certificate to Tippicanoe Place, 198Z Official entry forms only-no reproductions. One entry per South Bend, Indiana. SECOND PRIZES Two certificates worth $75 in CTIl student. Prizes are non-transferable. long distance service. This must be used prior to May 13, 1987. ADDI-I 
\_ TIONALLY The first fifty (50) students to sign up for NEW CTIIong distance I_ _ ________________ service will receive $5 off their first long distance bill from Clark_.______I 

The Obsenrer Monday, February 23, 1987-page 14 
Irish put together year's best game to defeat No. 23 Demons, 53-44 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
CHICAGO -The Notre Dame women's basketball team up­set No. 23 DePaul, 53-44, here Saturday, putting together their finest effort of the season. The Irish finally came away with the "big win" that has eluded them during their troubled 1986-87 campaign. 
The victory gave Notre Dame head coach Mary DiS­tanislao her 200th career win. Her 12-year record currently is 200-109. In seven years with the Irish, DiSitanislao is 111-79. 
"It's just a figure," said DiS­tanislao of the 200th victory. "It's nice, though. I don't event think of it in terms of goals. I'm just really happy that we got the win here at DePaul. I'm happier that it's our eighth win of the season." 
Notre Dame improved its overal) record to 8-15 while DePaul dropped to 18-6. The Irish are now 2-2 in North Star C(.nference play, one game be­hind the Lady Blue Demons who are now 3-1 in the confer­ence. 
Notre Dame was in control of this one from the opening tip, which junior point guard Mary Gavin took to the left side of the key and canned after only four seconds had elapsed. The Irish never lost the lead, playing a relentless 2-3 zone defense and patiently execut­ing their offensive game plan to control the game's tempo. 
In January, DePaul defeated Notre Dame 80-68, at the ACC behind the high-scoring guns of Diana Vines (28 points), Sally 
Tops 
continuedfrompage 16 
salvaged four bouts. Haugh also defE~ated Phillips in the meet. 
"I've touched that level of fencing before, but I've had a problem with consistency," said Haugh. "When coach came over, it was kind of like when someone comes over and kicks you. It makes you think about what you're doing." 
"I tried to break the momen­tum," said DeCicco. "I've been around fencing long enough to know that when something like that happens, you can lose nine bouts before the guys realize that they're not thinking straight." 
Mter Saturday's 17-10 win over Big Ten power Illinois, it was only a matter of the sun coming up Sunday morning for the men's team to go unde­feated. While a team from Wayne State came and fenced, it didn't look like other Wayne State teams that have battled Notre Dame on the strip for 
Foul 
continued from page 16 
tire end of the floor. 
"I thought they were going to shoot free throws, but they took the ball out of bounds," Archibald said. "I wasn't trying to stall or anything. I think the referees should have seen what I was trying to do and could have handled it dif­ferently." 
Incidentally, there was no foul called on Royal as he made the shot. 

Anderson (22 points) and Melanie Ehrhardt (16 points). On Saturday, however, the Irish held the trio to 35 points. 
"The last time we played them, 66 out of their 80 points were scored by Vines, Ander­son and Ehrhardt," said DiS­tanislao. "So we just decided that we were going to go five on three. That's why we played the 2-3 zone like we did." 
It was a true team effort from the start, as all five starters hit a field goal in the opening minutes. Junior for­ward Sandy Botham hit several short jumpers down the stretch and led all scorers with 16 points. Sophomore Heidi Bunek added 12 points. Anderson, the senior point guard for the Lady Blue Demons, led her squad with 14 points. 
DePaul tried to frustrate the 
Irish with a tough full-court 
defense throughout the game, but the Notre Dame backcourt duo of Gavin and sophomore Diondra Toney patiently dis­sected the Lady Blue Demon press while committing only three turnovers. 
"You just have to be confi­dent that you can make one mistake and you don't have to make a second," said DiStanis­lao. "And they did that. They played comfortable. DiDi (Toney) and Mary (Gavin) are very complementary of each other." 
Toney scored 11 points and came up with the clutch play whenever a DePaul rally threatened the Irish lead. The sophomore pulled down six 
years. The men whipped the into first place on the Notre Tartars, 23-4, while the women Dame career win list. won by a 13-3 score. The men finished with a 22-0 
"We've had some good wins season record, while the wo­over Wayne State in the past, men went 19-0. Next up for the but I've never seen a 14-1 decid­fencers will be a series of ing bout against an NCAA­postseason competitions, start­caliber school," said DeCicco. ing with the Great Lakes "Never." Championships in Dearborn, 
The women's team stretched Mich., this Saturday. its winning streak to 42 meets IRISH ITEMS Sophomore with four wins over the Brenda Leiser took first place weekend. Senior captain Cindy in the Junior Olympics in Or­Weeks claimed her 36th and lando, Fla., last week in the 37th wins of the season to move epee. 
rebounds and blocked four 
shots. 

Gavin, the 5-6 quarterback of the Notre Dame offense, pulled down six boards herself and, as usual, set up several Irish buckets with her stellar pass­ing. 
The Irish took a 28-21 lead into the locker room at halftime, holding DePaul to a .310 field goal percentage on 9­29 shooting. DePaul closed the gap for the last time early in the second half as Diana Vines, averaging 21.4 points a game for the Lady Demons, fought for eight quick points. That brought DePaul to within two, 34-32, with 11:41 remaining, but ,. that was as close as they would come. Toney hit a jumper and zipped a pass into Cathy Emig­holz for a layup to begin the end for the Lady Demons, as Notre Dame held on for the 53­
The Observer/Greg Kohs 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team upset DePaul this weekend. Brian O'Gara has the details at left. 
44 upset. 

"It was our best game this year in the sense that we beat a really good team," said DiS­tanislao. "We did what we had to do to stop them defensively and we kept the pressure on them offensively." 
And when it was over, the crowd of 866 watched a jubilant Notre Dame team celebrate its upset victory. The Irish had beaten a conference rival, and the 23rd-ranked team in the nation, in an un­friendly environment. But most of all they had beaten ad­versity, which has loomed like a dark cloud over the Irish all season. Saturday, however, the forecast was all sunny. 
Milky Way and Westwood One Radio Network Presents 
special guests 
orgia Satellites turday, March 28 8:00 Notre Dame A.C.C. All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office Charge by phone 
VISAMC (219)239-7460 


0'Hara Lincoln Mercury & SAAB 
Seniors and Grad Students: ASK ABOUT OUR Drive a New Lincoln, Mercury or SAAB to your future job or on your Spring Break! 
* 
''Jeferred payments for 3 mos. 

* 
Establish credit on your own 

* 
Excellent interest rates 


Call for an appointment or stop in and see Charles Mcintosh 
120 W. McKinley Highway 
Mishwaka, IN (219) 256-0211 

':11:'~t:ll4tll~--------------------------------------------------------·M•o•n•da•y•,•F•eb•r•u•ar•y•2•3•,1•9•87•-•p•a•g•e.. 
.......- .... ...."" ·"" "" ...--- ....  Wh.....  at's H......  appe....- ning this Week? ... .... ...... .... ...... ...... -.. ---- ·­ .&&  
- • * Wed, Thurs : Maltese Falcon at 7,9,11 * Fri, Sat : 9 112 Weeks 7,9:15,11:30 ... ... _..---­ • _.. -·  • --­ -- ....- • -* Wed-Fri : Sign-ups 3-5, basement of LaFortune for Ft. Lauderdale Spring Break Trip (deadline Friday) . * Fri : Mardi Gras Ball 7-10 Theodores .. ... ... ... ..----­-­ -- • - 
- ........ ... ~..- ... ....... ... ... ... ...  ....  - 

WHIIT JOOMIWY 
ARE WE Yrlf'P/~:7. ''lrffX)'/t!GffTlN&. 'IJf/TCHIN& tl?r'5 WATCH 15CW. 
m-1/&Hr 1 ·mc~w t£Mrr7lJ
I . 
11€1/V€!?." 
I 
\ 

Beer Nuts 
UH... IJELL. ... 6R~AT..... 
TfiAN GO TO SOME tv£ 60rTA ISNT TH£1?( 
STUPID fMTY !IV A 
(JJ ro rilE Nrtfi/ING ELSE 
SWEATY LfffLE R.OOftt
8Afi.(R.fY::t1... TO lXJ (}(( THE lolftKENDS I{EJ(E 
ANb TALKio ~EONE 
THAN •• THAN... 

OF THE OflrJ511£ SEX 
0 
.. 

FOR 2.0 MINIJr£.5 OR. 
SO UNTIL. Tll/il GET &)RCD AND f-E~ .... 


I) 
Campus 
9:00-10:00 a.m.: SMC Government Club 
Lecture, Stapleton Lounge, SMC 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical En­
gineering Seminar: "Structural System 
Identification: Theory and Practice," by 
Juh-Shen Fuh, Room 303 Cushing Hall 
3:30: "Working for Justice in the Philip­pines: Making an Impact on Foreign Policy," by Dawn Calabia, Stapleton Lounge 3:30-5:00p.m.: Computer Minicourses: Lotus 1-2-3, Part 1, Room 108 Computing Center, limit 7, and RIM, Room 23 Com­puting Center, limit 15. 4:00p.m.: Black History Showdown 1987, Quiz-game show, Center for Social Con­cerns 
4:20 p.m.: "Career Planning for PLSPhilosophy Majors," by Paul Reynolds, Room 103 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
7:00 
p.m.: Basketball: SMC vs. Kalamazoo, Angela Athletic Facility 7:00p.m.: Swimming: ND vs. SMC, Rolfs Aquatic Center 

7:00 
p.m. : Monday Night Film Series I: "The Conversation," directed by Francis Ford Coppola, Annenberg Auditorium 7:00-8:30 p.m.: SMC Alcohol Awareness Week Lecture, "Introduction to Drugs," Stapleton Lounge 


7:30 p.m.: Meeting: Fellowship of Chris­tian Athletes, Stanford 24-Hour Lounge 
8:00 p.m.: "The College Drug Scene: Facts and Myths," Stapleton Lounge, SMC 8:30-9:30 p.m.: SMC Spanish Club Film: "Niebla," (in Spanish), Carroll Auditorium, SMC 9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II: "Remember My Name," Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round of Beef Pork Fry w/Julienne Vegetables Seafood Newburg over Patty Shell Devonshire Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
French Dip Sandwich Broccoli Stuffed Fish Eggplant Parmesan Deli Bar 

Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
!lCW'T r£T1!£ tt.m/G /PM. fiiR'II:f /J,Il/.PIN&. Wf1/CTWII.LY HAVe tclr5 WI/..L./.1 C/£1?1/9/C IN C()(tfMON. IN FI/Cr; !WIK£5 Me/V1Vf?N '-!€ 5/fllf?C II 
KAmJROI/5 t.!/5Tf(Jff
Mt MtON. 

ft.()(/NCJCK MAINS
ITCH. 

l PArt ON "ll?/9CIItr5: 
\ 
\ 
2:~ 

Mark Williams 
OTHER THAN
AND 11/EN DtiNK ~­
.•. 15 

PIIK!Nfr )0£1~
SElF INfO OBUVIO/tl 
111£# 7 

Gursa;r rHE 
ONLY TO ~I..IZ£ THAT 

fOU..oWI~ 110RIV­
1N&, NOTII!N(;.
NoW, l'dU l>IJN'r IIAYE 

f?G'AJ)(LY COI'IES
TN£ Sl.JGIITEST C!*'\?'r 

r() MtNP. 
IDEA W#fGI ~M YW
uv£ 1N? 


Evidence from a dog crime
,, 
\\ 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 "-Inhumanity 
to... " 

5 Candle 10 Cleric's title 14 On the peak 15 Actress Talla 16 Bulgar 17 Dres•ing 19 Peel 20 Island west 
of Naples 21 Siren 23 Fr. sociolo· 
gist 25 Need 26 Consume 29 Formally 
precise 31 Beard's boys: abbr. 34 Former Meta 
manager 35 Breather 36 Aged 37 Hastens 38 Awaken roughly 1..-..&..--'--'-­
39 Two 0 1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
40 Sugar suffix  All Rights Reserved  
41 Uncle Mlltie  Saturday's Puzzle Solved:  
42 Sweater size  6 In front  
43 Sawbuck  7 -In the sky  
44 Bone: pret.  8 Gaelic  
45 Sagacity  9 Sign on again  
46 Morally low  10 Meat jelly  
48 Ridicules  11 "The -Jungle"  
50 Patella  12 Naked  
53 Revokes, as  13 Always  
a legacy  18 Salmon P.­ 
56 Deer  22 Domesticate  
57 Misleading  24 Shoulder piece  
clue  26 "Some Like -"  
60 Solar disc  27 Clamor  
61 Opponent of  28 Special  
Pericles  Forces man  
62 Small lump  30 Trick  
63 Part of n.b.  32 lr. county  
64 Large  33 Pertinent  
sandwiches  35 Wine  
65 Evergreens  38 Systematic  
Inquiry  47 Volcano  54 Distance  
DOWN  39 Witness of  49 Large game  unit  
1 Fairy queen  a kind  fish  55 Mountaintop 
2 Hun king  41 Pear  50 Kubla­ feature  
3 Entre­ 42 Liquid  51 Alliance  58 Ger. article  
4 Ghosts  measure  acronym  59 Dramatist  
5 Garment  45 Broadens  52 Soccer great  monogram  


' 


SRorts 
Iris1lt take another close decision, holt~ off Utah rally to win, 57-~;6 
By MAmrY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
SALT LAKE CITY -When Chris Fulton fired his three­point shot at the buzzer with the game on the line, it was a freshman in his face. 
Joe Fredrick forced the Utah guard's bomb to sail too far in the thin mountain air, and Notre Dame pulled off its fourth win in a row with a 57-56 victory over the Runnin' Utes at the Special Events Center on Saturday. 
And the spotlight was on the Class of 19190. 
In the last minute of a game which could have gone either way, Irish head coach Digger Phelps went with a trio of fresh­men -Fredrick, Jamere Jack­son and Seott Paddock -even wlien it seemed the lack of ex­perience on the court would cost the Irish the ballgame. 
With Scott Hicks (sore thigh) and Sean Connor (sprained ankle) sidelined, Phelps did not have much choice. 
"We had to go with our fresh­men," Phelps said. "They're 

Janice llynes and the women's fencing team this weekend. Terry Lynch covers the fen­matched the great success of the men's team cers' big weekend below. 
Fencing teams finish undefeatc!d, De~2icco gets 500th career victcJry 

By TEHRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
When it was all over, Todd Griffee and Rich Daly dumped a bucket of ice on top of one of the hottest coaches in Notre Dame his­tory. 
It was a fitting end to the fencing program's in­credible weekend that left both the men and the women on top of the Midwest fen­cing seene, and · served notice to the rest of the na­tion that Notre Dame fen­cing still has the stuff that national championships are made of. 
Along the way to that pin­nacle, Head Coach Mike DeCicco claimed his 500th career victory, which was only one of many records made at Saint Mary's An­gela Athletic Facility. With going to make mistakes but they did the things they had to do to win. Fredrick forced Ful­ton to take a bad shot at the end and, more importantly, he didn't foul him. 

"Without Hicks and Connor, this was a big road win for us." 
The Runnin' Utes took their first lead since the first half with 53 seconds remaining in the game, when Mitch Smith (17 points) sank a pair of free throws to make the score 56-55. 
After a Notre Dame timeout, Irish guard David Rivers launched a 17-footer which kicked high off the rim, and sophomore Mark Stevenson was fouled as he went back up with the rebound with 40 seconds showing on the clock. Stevenson made two from the charity stripe to round out the scoring, but not the action. 
With Albert Springs and Jimmy Madison out of the game with five fouls apiece, substitute guard Sie Moore was inserted for Utah, and he promptly skipped a bounce pass out of bounds with eight seconds left. 
that achievement, DeCicco now boasts a 502-40 (.924) career record. The men's fencing team is currently riding a 75-meet winning streak. 
Yet for all that, DeCicco shied away from the spot­light that all those wins con­spired to put on him this weekend. 
"I'm more concerned with the graduating seniors, be­cause if win number 500 didn't come today, it would have come sometime in my lifetime," DeCicco said Sat­urday. "The undefeated season becomes more and more elusive every year, and it's important that the seniors have that." 
Indeed, there were plenty of other heroes on Saturday than DeCicco. Sabreman Kevin Stoutermire went un­defeated in the sabre against Illinois, paving the way for a crucial 6-3 advantage in the sabre bouts. 
• "I was thinking about it all last night," said U.e senior sabre captain. "In my mind I had myself winning yester­day. The key for me was to stay on top, because once you're on top, that's half of it." 
The epee team had a struggle on its hand:; against Illinois. Two top-ranked fen­cers, Miles Phillips and Tim Hensley, fueled the Illini to a quick 3-0 advantage in the weapon. DeCicco called the epee team over for a timeout, and sen1 or Tim Vaughn responded by stop­ping Phillips in the next bout. Senior John Haugh fol­lowed by defeating flensley, and eventually the epeeist 
see TOPS, page 14 
Fredrick was fouled on the inbounds pass, mis:ied the front end of a one-and-one, · but hustled back and forced the bad shot at the buzzer. 
The Irish upped their record to 17-7, while the Utes fell to 16-10. 
"We played four freshmen tonight a lot," Phelps said. Tony Jackson pi ayed three minutes and pickE!d up three quick personals. "They're going to make mistakes, and you have to live w1 th that. 
"We've lost close road games like this at UCLA, Kansas and Vanderbilt, and tonight we played well enough to win one." 
Junior forward Donald Royal led the Irish with u, points, and also fouled out of the game in the final minute. Rivers added 13 and Stevenson picked up 12. 
Gale Gondrezick hit from in­side and out for the Utes, leading them in the scoring de­partment with 19. 
"We played very well and were patient coming back," said Utah head coa ::h Lynn Ar-
see UTES, psge 12 
The Observer 1 Susan Coene 
Monday, February 23, 1987-page 16 
The Observer /Greg Kohs 

Notre Dame took a close decision from Utah Saturday. Marty Strasen has the game story at left as well as a look at the game's officiating below. Officials' performance makes coach cry 'foul' 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
SALT LAKE CITY -Days before his team eked out a 57-56 victory over Utah here at the Special Events Center on Sat­urday, Notre Dame coach Dig­ger Phelps predicted a war. 
But someone once said all is fair in war. Saturday night, it seemed nothing was fair, as the officials blew their whistles at anything which remotely resembled contact. 
All things considered, a war would have been much more exciting than the first half, which took nearly an hour to play. 
"(The referees) didn't let the teams play in the first half," said Utah coach Lynn Ar­chibald. "They didn't even make it a basketball game. Too many little things were called that they shouldn't have called. If a guy doesn't get an advan­tage on a little bit of contact, I don't think you should call something. 
"You want the kids to play and have fun. That's what we're out here for -to have fun. And I just don't know about some of those calls." 
Especially in the first half, Ed Risteau, Dave Hall and Louis Fuentes (all from the Western Athletic Conference) seemed to be the only ones en­joying themselves. They called 27 fouls in the first 20 minutes -16 on the Runnin' Utes and 11 on the Irish. 
Two Utah starters, Albert Springs and Jimmy Madison, each had three fouls at the in­termission, and each fouled out of the ballgame. Forward Donald Royal fouled out late in the game for the Irish. 
A total of 47 fouls were called 
in the contest. 
"I think the officiating definitely hurt us," Archibald said. "We had some of our best players on the bench with foul trouble, and you just can't beat teams like Notre Dame without your best players." 
One call which especially in­furiated Archibald was a block­ing foul on Mitch Smith mid­way through the second half on a Royal turnaround jumper from the paint. Smith was hit with a technical for arguing the call. 
"I thought it was a cheap technical foul in a big game like this," said Archibald, whose Utes trailed, 45-42, at the time, and fell behind by a 50-42 score after an ensuing Notre Dame run. Utah's next field goal came more than four minutes later. "(The official) wouldn't even explain to me what Mitch did. I just don't think a techni­cal foul is called for in that sit­uation for showing some emo­tion.'' 
Phelps did not fault the offi­cials for their tight reign on the game, but attributed the num­ber of calls to his team's strong inside play. 
"We go inside all the time," Phelps said. "That's a trait of Notre Dame teams and that's what we do well. We go at people because we want to get teams in foul trouble, and we want to get in the bonus. 
"That's just how we play." 
One of the stranger plays in the game occurred with fl: 17 to play, when Archibald called a team huddle near the sideline to regroup after a Springs foul. 
Meanwhile, the referee handed Irish guard David Rivers the ball underneath the bucket, and he simply handed it to Royal for an uncontested slam dunk. 
There wasn't a Ute on the en-
see FOUL, page 14 


