Charlie Brown -page 6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 122 WEDNESDAY APRIL 8, 1987 
the independent student newspaper sen·ing ~otre Dame and Saint \far) 's 

All that jazz 
Members of the Jazz Band's brass section rehearse for tonight's performance in Washing­ton Hall. This event is a prelude to the annual 

Reagan promises Moscow embassy will be protected 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan promised quick action Tuesday to prevent ''further damage to our national secur­ity" from a sex-and-spy scan­dal in Moscow and suggested that the unfinished $191 million 
U.S. embassy there will be torn down if it cannot be protected from eavesdropping. 
He declared that the Soviets will not be allowed to move into their new embassy on a Wash­ington hilltop until Americans occupy a new embassy in Mos­cow. 
The new U.S. facility under construction in Moscow is due for completion in 1989, but there are reports it already is riddled with bugging devices. 
"The United States will not occupy our new embassy build­ing in Moscow unless and until I can be assured that it is safe to move into a secure embassy environment," Reagan said in a brief appearance in the White House press briefing room. 
Two Marines who served as guards at the existing embassy have been charged with espionage. They allegedly be­came sexually involved with Soviet women and allowed KGB agents into the embassy's communications center and other sensitive areas. 
"I'm deeply concerned over 

Malloy proposes 3-step program for justice 
By MATTHEW R. GAL­LAGHER 
News Staff 
University President-elect Father Edward "Monk" Mal­loy presented his "three-step" program for justice in a panel discussion in Washington Hall Tuesday night entitled "Education for Justice: Is It Possible?" 
The discussion was spon­sored by the Committee for Dialogue on Education, in con­junction with Peace and Justice Week, April 6 -April 11. 
Malloy led a panel of four current Notre Dame students, each speaking about their par­ticular experiences in social activism at Notre Dame. 
The discussion opened with a brief presentation on education for justice at Notre Dame. Mal­loy described this as a three­step process, composed of the basic elements of experience, reflection, and action. 
According to Malloy, Notre Dame must seek to encourage its students to go places where they can experience other cul­tures. Malloy stressed, however, that "there is no guarantee that simply having experience will bring insight and-Or wisdom." 

Malloy identified the second step of his plan to educate for social justice as reflection, or analysis. "To see with greater depth and a broader perspec­tive," Malloy said, "seems to be critical as an integral part of the education we need to pro­vide here." 
Thirdly, Malloy stressed that students must be willing to take action. He noted that this action is almost inevitable if the two stages prior to this one have been sucessfully completed. 
Malloy emphasized in con­clusion that education for jus­tice is a combination of all three of these steps. 
"I think that education for justice demands that whatever discipline we are pursuing ... we recognize the complexity and room for disagreement, 
see MONK, page 4 


Tampa's mayor urges calm during racial unrest 
Associated Press 
TAMPA -Saying there's "no quick fix" for this racially troubled city, Tampa's mayor asked black community leaders Tuesday to urge calm in the wake of rock and bottle throwing triggered by the death of a black man wrestled to the ground by police. 
The death Monday of Otis Bernard Miller, 35, was the fourth since November of a black man in which white police officers were involved. 
"The people are upset. They are talking about Miller and about the last four killings," said Bob Gilder, former head of the local NAACP chapter. "It's happening too often to be passed off as an isolated inci­dent or an accident." 
Mayor Sandy Freeman urged black and white commu­nity leaders to offer solutions. 
"I've said all along there's no quick fix to this problem. It is something that has taken years to develop and is going to take time to correct," she said through spokesman John Dunn. 

Her call for calm followed scattered disturbances Mon­day night involving milling bands of 75 to 100 mostly young blacks who hurled rocks and bottles, broke windows in several cars and looted a store, police said. 
One minor injury was re­ported, and five people ranging in age from 11 to 43 were ar­rested on charges of disorderly conduct, burglary or inciting to riot. 
Gilder and other black leaders went into the Belmont Heights and College Hill neigh­borhoods, appealing for calm and asking parents to keep young people at home. 
"Last night was a minor in­dication that people are tired of the killing, and' they don't know any other way to get the system's attention but to throw a1brick," Gilder said. 
The unrest was the second such outbreak since February, and followed the death of Mil­ler. 

the breach of security in our Moscow embassy," Reagan said, "and while all the facts are not known, it is clear that the security implications are widespread and that additional quick action is required to prevent further damage to our national security." 
Reagan said he had directed Secretary of State George Shultz and the Foreign Intelli­gence Advisory Board to "evaluate the condition of our new building and ascertain whether it will ever be secure or whether it may be necessary to destroy and rebuild it." 
He said he wanted a report within 90 days. 
Reagan acknowledged that the advisory board as far back as 1985 had raised alarms about the use of Soviet personnel at the U.S. embassy. 
"We immediately started and did accomplish a reduction in personnel, in stages, that were there," he said. 
"And I must say we did run into some embassy problems and opposition because it isn't exactly a place where you can just go out and hire Americans to go and take jobs like that in the Soviet Union." 
The president said he would not permit the rehiring of So­viet workers at the embassy, 
see EMBASSY, page 4 
Decision 
of ABC 
goes against 

Corby's 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Saint Mary's Editor 
Corby Tavern was dealt another blow Tuesday in its struggle to reopen. 
Upholding the earlier deci­sion of the St. Joseph's County Alcoholic Beverage Commission, the Indiana ABC voted 4-0 to deny renewal of the tavern's liq­uor license, said Doug Han­noy, ABC administrative as­sistant. 
The decision means "the tavern won't be able to open at its former location," Han­noy said. 
The present owner of the tavern, CTI Inc., needed to renew the permit before it could transfer ownership of the tavern, Hannoy said. 
CTI Inc. had planned to sell the tavern's property and assets to Thomas and Robert Przybylinski if the license had been renewed. 
see CORBY'S, page 4 


The Observer Wednesday April 8, 1987-page 2 


In Brief 
MichelleLaRose,aNotreDamesophomore,recently won $1000 in a writing contest sponsored by the In­dianapolis Press Club. LaRose was named the winner of the Thomas R. Keating writing competition on April 4. Finalists traveled to Indianapolis last weekend where they were required to write a story about their impressions of the city. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
CampusPerspectivesonWVFitonightwillfeature NO and SMC Special Olympics' student organizers Eric Hickey and Mary Beth Wilken. Find out what's going on this summer and how you can become involved with this special program. The show, hosted by Colleen Doyle and Chris Shank, starts at 9:00p.m. -The Observer 
Bishop Thomas Gumbleton will conclude the Lenten Reflection Series tonight at 7:00p.m. in the Lady Chapel in Sacred Heart. Bishop Gumbleton, Auxiliary Bis­hop of Detroit and President of Pax Christi USA, will offer personal reflections on the University community's Lenten theme: "God does not see as we see -for we look at ap­pearences, but the Lord loks into the heart" (1 Samuel 
16: 7). Bishop Gumbleton's talk is also part of "Peace With Justice Week." -The Observer 
Career and Placement Services will offer two presentations tonight. "Where Are You in Your Job Search?" will be given by Jeff Rice at 7:00 p.m. in 117 O'Shaughnessy. All graduating seniors are invited to at­tend. The second lecture, "Juniors: How to Fill Out Your Profile Form," will be given by Kitty Arnold and Paul Reynolds in 123 Nieuwland Science. That presentation, also at 7:00 p.m., is intended for juniors of all majors. 
-The Observer 

"Serious Fiction and the Publishing Industry" is the title of a talk to be given by Elizabeth Christman and Professor Thomas Werge at the 6th Annual Friends of the Notre Dame Library Colloquium tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. in the Library auditorium lounge. -The Observer 
A.E.D. Induction Dinner will be held tonight at the Ramada Inn at 8:00p.m. All current members as well as those being inducted tonight are invited to attend. Those who have not registered must do so today with Mrs. Filbert in the Pre-Professional Office. -The Observer 
Students with divorced parents are invited to participate in a group discussion tonight at 6:30 p.m. in 162 Regina Hall. -The Observer 
PaxChristi-Notre Dame will sponsor a prayer for peace session tonight at the Grotto at 7:45p.m. -The Ob­server 
An anthology of Shakespearean love scenes, sonnets, and songs, will be presented outdoors (weather permit­ting) on the Haggar College Center terrace. The presenta­tion will be held tomorrow, Friday, and Monday. -The 
Observer 


Weather 
Wonderful weather week continues today with sunny skies and temps in the mid 60s. Mostly clear Wed­nesday night with the low 35 to 40. More sunny skies Thursday with the high 60 to 
I ----~,,l 
~ '•'

:o:J 
.~ 

65. -Associated Press 

Design Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chris Donnelly Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . Andy Fenoglio Typesetters ..... ......... Becky Gunderman News Editor................ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor...... . .... Joe Markey Sports Copy Editor ............ Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Brian Broderick 
Viewpoint Layout .......... Kathleen Moran 
Accent Copy Editor ............. Matt Sitzer Accent Layout.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . Caroline Rey Typists.............. .............. Esther Ivory ND Day Editor ................... Jim Winker SMC Day Editor .......... Sandy Cerimele Ad Design... . ........... David Culligan Photographer..... . ....... Zoltan Ury 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsernr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The A..odaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Dirty laundry won't be the same without 'Bundleoftheweek' Norm 
A few weeks ago Notre Dame lost an institu­tion. Norm "Bundle-of-the-week" Muller resigned as director of Saint Michael's laundry and dry cleaning, leaving a large hole in fabric of many male students lives. 
Granted, his resignation hasn't caused the stir that Father Hesburgh's will; Ronald Reagan hasn't written to him, The Observer won't run a special "Muller Years" issue, and the Memorial Library probably won't be named after him. 
But Norm will be missed just the same. 
I know. I miss him. 
For those who have not heard of Norm, he first arrived at Notre Dame in 1975 as Com­mander of the U.S. Air Force ROTC detach­ment, and after retiring in 1978 became the as­sistant director of Saint Michael's. He took over as director in 1982 and served the laundry until he resigned in March. 
I never met Norm, but like many I felt that he was a friend. Unfortunately, his relationship with the student body was limited only to men who took advantage of the laundry service. 
When students went to collect their newly­washed clothes at Door 3, they would usually stop and read the large bulletin board which hangs next to an old-fashioned wringer. Some­times you had to stand in line to read it. 
The board was divided into four sections: a smattering of the latest news in the laundry industry, Norm's computerized sports predic­tions, the winner of the Bundle-of-the-week, and Norm's question-and-answer column. 
I never won the Bundle-of-the-week, and Norm's predictions weren't anything to make Jimmy the Greek look over his shoulder. But the board assured me that even if my under­wear was returned two sizes smaller, somebody cared. 
The board revealed a man who put a lot of thought into his work and took pride in it. Norm was the answer to every student who complains that administrators here don't care about us. 
This was evidenced by his question-and­answer column which made him the Dear Abby of lost socks. The column was a collection of letters from students asking questions about cracked buttons, girlfriends, fading T-shirts, Notre Dame sports, as well as other questions about life and textiles. 
After each question, no matter how ludicrous, there was an appropriate reply in Norm's simple style. 
A phone call to Norm at his home confirmed all of my impressions. I asked him what he was up to now. "Catching up," he said. "Painting and fixing the yard." 
Why did he create of the legendary Bundle-of-the week contest? "I was looking for some­thing to spice things up with. It gets a little dreary up here in Northern Indiana." 

Did he miss Notre Dame? "Of course, you can't work somewhere for a long time without becoming attached." 
I never asked Norm why he left. It didn't seem right. 
Of course, sinister rumors and black tales about Norm's sudden exit are easily invented -fixed "Bundles of the week," kick-backs from Tide and Bounce, or "dracula clips" deliberately targeted at selected necks. 
None of these rumors wash, however. Even if they did, it wouldn't make any difference. All that matters to me is that I still can't bring myself to drop my dirty clothes down the laundry chute. I won't go to Door 3topickthem up again. The place has too many memories. 
I have heard a rumor that the laundry is still running a "Bundle-of-the-week" contest. That's not enough to win me back, however. A Bundle of the week without Norm is like pants without the zipper. 
Moreover, it's a sham. No, it's worse than a 
sham. It's sacrilege and I want no part of it. 
I do my own laundry now. It's a boring task 
and eats up all of the change I earn at The 
Observer. But I still can't bring myself to use 
the laundry service any more. It seems like it 
would be a betrayal to Norm. 
SObering
Advice . ~ cansa~e\
..
alife /. , ~ 
1 


' ' ' ' ' ' Faculty, Staff and Students are invited to 
A PASSOVER MEAL 
FRI., APRIL 1 0 6:30 pm 
CBF Campus House, 19525 Pendle 
This will be a unique Jewish Passover, conducted by Tom & Deb Lowenhar, who will give a fascinating explanation of how Christ is represented in this tradition. No charge, but space is limited. Call 277-8471 for reservations. Rides provided. Spon­
sored by Campus Bible Fellowship. 




Clubs and Organizations 
Applications are now available for: 
1. 
Student Government Funding for 1987-88 

2. 
Club Registration 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 

4. 
Office Space in LaFortune 


Pick applications 1n Student Activities Office, 301 
LaFortune. 

Applications are due Wednesday, April 15 at 4:00 pm. 

The Observer Wednesday April 8, 1987 -page 3 
Focus of HPC meeting on role of co-chairmen 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
Discussion at Tuesday Night's Hall Presidents' Coun­cil Banquet was limited to the question of what role newly­elected HPC Co-Chairmen Bob Daley and Tim Salmon will fill in the Council. 
The banquet at Tippecanoe Place featured a send-off of current HPC Co-Chairmen Joanie Cahill and Sheila O'Connor as well as speeches from the new co-chairmen. 
Salmon, current Holy Cross Hall president, said he and 

DIANNA 

The Drunken One Turns 21 Today 
Happy Birthday 
ATTENTION: NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S GRADUATES 
FOR OUR SPECIAL CAR SALE! 
• 
Eighteen local auto dealers with over 300 new and used cars and· trucks 

• 
Notre Dame ACC 

• 
No admission charge 

• 
Wed., April 8, 5:00 PM -8:00 PM Thurs., April 9, 10:00 AM -8:00 PM Fri., April 10, 10:00 AM -5:00 PM 

• 
All makes and models to choose from 

• 
Special rates...8.24% variable and 9.24% fixed A.P.R. 

• 
On the spot financing available from the 1st Source Bank Loan Specialists 


~source
-.aank 
Daley, current Fisher Hall president, would like to main­tain the credibility and social atmosphere of the HPC. 
Two mock tickets running against Daley and Salmon were formed by Pasquerilla Hall West Co-Presidents Jeanne Gorenz and Colleen Kretz, Pasquerilla Hall East President Patty Swope and Stanford Hall President Jim Wimbiscus. 
"We also want to say that the four of us just did this because Tim (Salmon) and Bob (Daley) had nobody to run against," Wimbiscus said. 

,..J ,­..... \_.....,.ixr 
Fair weather friends 
Scenes like this one were familiar Tuesday as students across campus made the most of the sunshine. These students abandoned their books 
Switek, Heller speak in 'Last' talks 
By SHANNON MCGOWAN 
Staff Reporter 
Hindsight was the topic of speeches by Mike Switek and Jeanne Heller, former student body presidents at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, who spoke Tuesday night at Saint Mary's Last Lecture Series at Haggar College Center. 
Both speakers reminisced about their college years and offered advice to other students as they gave their last formal presentations before gradua­tion. 
Switek, who spoke first, talked about those activities which have become so routine to him since freshmen year, saying that he never regretted his participation. 
"College can be great and a really good experience, but it's up to you to make it special. It has to come from within," he said. 
Switek stressed the impor­tance of leaving something of oneself behind as well as taking advantage of opportunities that lay ahead. He cautioned his au­dience not to waste time and 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 

Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Wednesday April 8, 1987 
Between 9:00--4:30 at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
The Observer/Mike Ury 

momentarily as they relaxed by the Fieldhouse Mall. Warm temperatures and sunny skies will likely provoke more such lounging today. 
advised trying everything be­cause "four years pass all too quickly." 
Jeanne Heller also reflected back on her past four years. Saying she had a rebellious childhood, Heller explained that she learned more about herself with each year spent at Saint Mary's. She said she learned her limitations and how to set her expectations without overextending herself. 
"The best phrase I've learned since I've been here is: What difference is it going to make in five years?," Heller said. 
Wednesday April 8, 1987-page 4
The Observer 
Security Beat 
Sunday 
Incidents from the Huey Lewis con­cert: 
Two people were issued non­contractural interest forms for il­legally selling T -shirts in the stadium east parking lot. 
Four people were found by security officers to be in possession of mari­juana. Each of the cases will be turned over to the St. Joseph County Prosecutors Office for further action. 
A student was apprehended for viola­tion of the University Alcohol Policy. The uncooperative student will have his case sent to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Monday 
9:00 a.m. -A light pole was damaged in the B-2 lot by a gold vehicle that left the scene. Parts of the vehicle were on the ground near the pole. Damage is approximately $200.00. 
11:00 a.m. -A person came to the Se­curity Office to report that his vehicle had been hit by an unknown vehicle in the Library Circle. Estimated damage is $400.00. 
12:15 p.m. -A subject was issued a non­contractual agreement after it was re-
Embassy 
continuedfrom page 1 
even if the Kremlin revokes an 
order banning their employ­
ment there. 
Reagan rejected a sugges­
tion by former Secretary of 
State Henry Kissinger . that 
Shultz abandon plans to hold 
talks in Moscow next week with 
Soviet Foreign Minister 
Eduard Shevardnadze, 
Corby's 
continuedfrompage 1 
During a February meeting, the state ABC collected evidence concerning the ques­tion of upholding the denial for license renewal set by the St. Joseph County ABC. 
Present at yesterday's hearing "as a protest to the tavern's re-opening" was the Local Community Council of South Bend, Hannoy said. 
The tavern can appeal the ABC's decision in the courts, Hannoy said, explaining a pos­sible next move for the tavern owners. "Now they have their judicial remedies. They can take it to the South Bend Courts, if they so wish," he said. 
Monk 
continued/rom page 1 
and that we train people to be able to see the connection be­tween the values we hold as people and the proposals they make in the real world," Mal­loy said. 
Mter Malloy's speech, the four student panelists each reflected on their own experi­ences at Notre Dame. Michael Murdock portrayed "The Un­dergraduate Experience," Marlene de Groot depicted "The Graduate Dilemma," Sophia Twarog spoke on "So­cial Activism and Academics," and Ramzi Bualuan represented the "International Student's Point of View." 
In the discussion, all the 
panelists stressed the need to use the media, especially campus media, to communi­cate with the student body and to inspire student interest in so­cial justice. 
ported to security that he was solicit­ing the sale of magazines. 
12:45 p.m. -An employee of North Dining Han reported that her coat, boots and $20.00 were taken from a locked locker. Later in the day the coat and boots were recovered; the $20.00, however, was still missing. 
3:25p.m. -A Panasonic answering ma­chine was taken from an unlocked of­fice in LaFortune. The value of the ma­chine is $75.00. 
3:55 p.m. -A student reported that a man was indecently exposing himself on Bulla Road in the wooded area. The man is described as a white male, 5'11", blond hair, medium build and approximately 30 years old. 
5:00p.m. -A Keenan Hall resident re­ported that his Rally Sport men's 10­speed bike was taken from the Keenan bike rack. The bike had been secured with a cable and combination lock. 
9:00p.m. -It was reported to Security that a vehicle was damaged after hit­ting another vehicle as it was being backed out of a parking space in the Stepan Center lot. There were no in­juries and the damage is approxi­mately $150.00. 
9:50p.m. -A student from Fisher Hall reported that his bookbag was taken from the South Dining Hall book rack. The bookbag contained a tennis rack­et a can of tennis balls and three te~tbooks. The total value is listed at $120.00. 

Tuesday 
10:05 a.m. -A Flanner Hall resident re­ported that his checkbook had been stolen from the dorm on Friday, April 
3. Value of the checkbook is $5.00. 
11:50 a.m. -A Cavanaugh Hall resident was ticketed after he was seen by se­curity entering campus illegally. 
1:08 p.m. -A Morrissey resident re­ported that a textbook, valued at $35.00, was taken from a cubicle in the lobby of the bookstore. 
1:30 p.m. -It was reported to Security that two computed disks and manuals were taken from the Freshman Learn­ing Resource Center. Value is esti­mated at $514.00. 
1:55 p.m. -A Carroll Hall resident re­ported that a notebook and textbook were taken from the South Dining Hall bookrack. Total value is $31.00. 
2:20 p.m. -An off-campus student re­ported that his jean jacket, keys and sunglasses were taken from the Law library on Monday, April6. The value is approximately $71.00. 
meeting instead in Helsinki. of espionage worldwide is 
"I just don't think it's good something that we have to rec­for us to be run out of town," ognize takes place, and coun­he said. terespionage is employed by 
Frank Carlucci, the presi­everyone, but at the sametime, dent's national security ad­you don't stop doing business." viser, said Shultz will have a secure room in the embassy As for whether the incident from which to work. had changed his view of the 
Reagan, asked how he could Soviets, Reagan said, "I think continue to hold arms talks I've been rather realistic about with the Soviets in view of the the Soviet Union for quite some spying, replied: time and, believe me, it doesn't 
"I think the whole business surprise me a bit." 
ND AVE APTS Now Renting for Fall 


Completely Furnished, Balconies, Ott Street Parking, Laundry, On Site Management & Maintenance. All Deluxe Features. Ask about our Special Summer Rates 
Office at 820 NO AVE. 
234·6647 

Protected b Pinkerton Securi 
Ill 
::z: 
1­

~******************* 
~ * 
t Wednesday Well ~ t Drinks $.75 ~ 
t ...................................................... ~ t Thursday ~ t Molson, ~ t Molson Light $1 ~ 
~ * 
******************** 

Soviets: Warfare tests in U.S. created AIDS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. government says the Soviet Union is engaging in a cam­paign intended to plant the idea that AIDS was created in a bi­ological warfare experiment at Fort Detrick in Maryland. 
The Pentagon believes the Soviets have succeeded in keeping their allegations alive because Fort Detrick -until 1969 -was the Army's biological warfare development center and today is the site for some AIDS-related research. 
"The facts have been dis­torted to support the false charge," the Pentagon stated in a recent background report on the affair. The State Depar­tment has also protested against the Soviet accounts. 
First carried in October 1985 by the Soviet weekly "Literaturnaya Gazeta," the Soviet claim was immediately denied by the State Depart­ment and dismissed as propaganda. 


Over the past 17 months, however, the Russians have mounted what the Pentagon calls "a continuing disinforma­tion campaign," embellishing the story while citing alleged scientific experts to lend weight to the charges. 
By the Pentagon's count, the story has been reported since Oct. 30, 1985, by the news media of more than 60 countries, in­cluding the United States, in more than 30 different lan­guages. 
"Quite simply, these charges are patently untrue," says Fred Hoffman, a spokesman for the Pentagon. "The tech­nique used has been to plant the story in friendly newspapers outside the Soviet Union, and then to quote those newspapers as authoritative in the Soviet news organs. 
"What's really troublesome is that this stuff tends to be believed in Third World countries." 

~~.Ol!llh1ts of the Castle 
& ........ s Hairstyling$6•tudent $8.50 complete 
cut style 
MINUfES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 
212-D312 211·1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
......,_....... ·~·· ·-...s......... 
c.•._ ...• ...............Not a.... 
~~--6 IlL lleM U IWIW ......Io • •••I 
~------~----~ 

We cater to weddings and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: ~outh Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 -8 
~ 
~---.,)1.,1
!L APPLICATToNS 
J'ff1-('fgg ~OOL 
~AR ARE No~ A\jAJLABL~ AI 
~ OFACE Of S'1tloetJI A.c.:n vffJ€5J 
IHlRJ> hooR UhRTlJWE 
J ~ 
APPLtCATloNS ARE 'DUE 
-rLJ(iS~V } APRIL 14 


-~----------·-~-~---­
"ie~~_O_J_•I\__t
________________w_edne-sda-yAp-ril8-,1987--pa-ge5 
Reagan no longer capable of leading country 
Gore Vidal once recounted an inci­dent from the twilight years of Paul von Hindenbrug, the last president of Germany before Hitler came to power. Hindenburg, long after he had lapsed into senility, retained his title as leader of post-war Germany. The ministers around him had long since seized the reins of power, and the doddering old statesman merely ratified their deci­sions with his signature. Hindenburg liked to work and eat lunch at the same time. One day he momentarily forgot which was which and accidentally signed his sandwich. 
Isaac McDaniel 
guest column 
Ronald Reagan has not yet lost the ability to distinguish between work and leisure, but he has plainly lost his abil­ity to govern the nation. The clues are at once sad and hilarious (comedians from Johnny Carson to Garry Trudeau have had a field day making light of the president's memory lapses), but the results for the country are little short of terrifying. American foreign policy, for instance, is confused and without direciton. Thus members of the Reagan Cabinet now war openly over how to respond to terrorists or whether the United States should negotiate arms control with the Russians. Above the incessant sounds of discord coming from the White House, which voice speaks for America? 
In the meantime, Gorbachev has seized one foreign policy initiative after another from the United Sates, as the Soviet Union has begun to set the inter­national agenda on such issues as arms control and superpower relations with the Third World. Commentators con­tend that the United States has likewise lost its financial pre-eminence in the world marketplace, with Tokyo replac­ing New York as the economic capital of the world. Can the United States af­ford to continue drifting in international waters for the next two years? 
The Administration's domestic policies are now crippled by the same growing chaos and inertia which beset our relations with other countries. The newly elected Congress, heavily Dem­ocratic and sensing the vacuum of lead­ership which continues to paralyze the White House, is prepared to defy the President and to go its own way. Thus it has already overridden Reagan's veto of an $88 billion highway and mass 
Doonesbury 
transit bill, ignoring the President's last minute journey to Capitol Hill to beg for votes from members of his own party. Reagan's customary pair of trump cards-his overwhelming vic­tories at the polls and his extraordinary personal powers of persuasion-have vanished in recent months like cobwebs in a hurricane. With major issues, such as housing, American trade policy and aid to the homeless, still confronting this session of Congress, the President has plainly lost that personal magic which once allowed him to work his legislative will on Capitol Hill. 
The Administration's political tailspin is not simply a problem of iso­lated blunders or even a product of the Iranian arms scandal. Plagued by ad­vancing age and diminishing attention span, Reagan has lost the personal abil­ity to preside over his own Administra­tion. Only the leadership of a single in­dividual can possibly restore coherence and success to the Reagan agenda. But Howard Baker, the newly appointed Chief of Staff, can't govern on behalf of the President. Baker is unsuited, by talent and temperament, to be more than Reagan's chief advisor. The Tower Commission's pointed com­plaints about Reagan's passive man­agement style have made it virtually impossible for any individual to convert the Administraiton into a regency by ruling in the President's place. 
The most sensible answer is for Reagan to retire as soon as possible and to let George Bush pick up the mantle of Presidential leadership. Im­mediate resignation would allow Reagan to cut his losses in the eyes of history, whose appraisal he and Nancy seem increasingly eager to enhance. People would perceive that the Presi­dent is admirably more interested in promoting his policies than in retaining for himself the powers and prere­quisites of the Presidency. 
President Bush could then proceed to advance the Republican agenda. He would likely do so with at least as much success as Gerald Ford enjoyed while promoting the Republican blueprint for action after his predecessor Nixon resigned in disgrace. Some will protest that Bush's image has been too badly tarnished by the Iranian arms scandal to allow him to govern the country ef­fectively, whereas Ford entered the Oval Office with no obvious links to Watergate. But Bush emerged from the Tower Commission Report relatively untainted. Moreover, the major reason 
THE PLACEHAS CHANGE[), OUC/tS.
f{}RG/Vc Me. 
I HAVeN'T 
~RJ(,Tl.Y aAS5
BCCNHEI?E 
N(}(JJ. A IJANC&
IN YEARS. 
ClJSTSA \-~~~·n·__.._ 
\ 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
for Reagan's crippled Presidency is his growing inability to handle the job, rather than his responsibility for a single fiasco. 
Reagan's resignaiton would not only provide hope of rescuing his legislative and foreign policy designs. It might also revive the possibility of Republi­can success at the polls in 1988. Handing over the reins of power to George Bush would allow him next year to run on his own presidential record, rather than holding him hostage to Reagan's recent failures. 
Bush is no doubt occasionally haunted by memories of Vice President Nixon, who lost his own bid for the Presidency in 1960, at least in part, be­cause of the sluggish economy, dis­hevelled foreign policy and general reputaiton for inertia which marked the last years of the Eisenhower Adminis­tration. ("Vote 'No' for President," advised Mort Sahl in the fall of 1960,"and leave the White House empty for another four years.") Some will suggest that Reagan's moribund policies, by eliminating Bush in the pri­maries, might allow some other Repub­lican to win his or her party's Presiden­tial nomination in 1988. But as Reagan continues to plunge ever deeper towards debacle, it is likely that his legislative and foreign policy blunders will take the rest of the party down with him. 
Harry Truman once quipped that, "Heroes know when to die." Perhaps occasionally they need only know when to retire. For the safety of the country and the good of his party, President Reagan should take the statesmanlike option and retire now, before he leads us into more defeats and disasters (or one day gets ink on his sandwich). 
Rev. Isaac McDaniel O.S.B. is cur­rently working on a doctorate in Amer­ican history. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Traditional fun lost in tourney censorship 
Dear Editor: 

Our Bookstore Basketball team's name was recently censored. The "Vi­olated Donuts" are now team 397. What is a violated donut? Well, it is an inside joke within Flanner 3A. Believe it or not, the name has nothing to do with breakfast pastry molestation. 
Let us be serious, or at least consis­tent. Some "terribly gross" names were accepted yet, names as simple as 
Last year's tournament was a great time and there were not any misguided censors looking out for what they thought were the best interests of al­most 10,000 students. Thank you, Stu­dent Activities censors for taking the tradition and most of the fun out of Bookstore basketball '87. 
Dan Mangan Bill McCoy Matt Connelly Mike Hickey Shawn Ricketts Violated Donuts 

"Violated Donuts" and "Vagabond, ..------------F....:l..::a....:n....:n.:..er......:.:H:...:.a:..:,ll 
Crazy Bastards from Your Mother's Worst Nightmare" were rejected by the 
censors  because of their explicit  na­ 
ture.  Did  the  censors  read  all  the  
names? I seriously doubt it.  

At least half of the fun of Bookstore basketball is thinking up a clever name. Why can't 18-22 year old students play word-games that create innuendo? Are we too naive to understand adult humor? I believe that we are fully ca­pable of understanding adult humor without being offended, and the censor­ship of Bookstore names causes more 
problems than it tries to avoid. 
Garry Trudeau 
THAT'S A 
LOVE/..Y5a:NT 
YOU'll£ /A/EAR· 
IN6. I 

Viewpoint would like to occa­sionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students, and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellec­tually stimulating, brilliantly fun­ny or clearly controversial, please send it to the Viewpoint Depart­ment, P .O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
Quote of the day 
"Of all the heavenly gifts that mortal men commend, what trus­ty treasure in the world can countervail a friend?" 
Nicholas Grimald (1519-1562) "OfFriendship" 

General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski 
News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley .  Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke  
Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy  Projects Manager .......................... Mark McLaughlin  
Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan  Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton  
Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton  Controller ......................................... Tracy Schlndele  
Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchlk  Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton  
Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll  Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon  

Founded November 3, 1968 
Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau 
Accent 
Wednesday April 8, 1987-page 6 
w 
does Charlie 
ho Yer a cool dude, Charlie Brown
Brown 
think 
he is 
anyway? 
He's been approximately the 
same age, has gone to the 
same school, and has worn the 
same shirt for at least twenty­
five years. After all the 
philosophical meanderlngs he's 
gone through, we know he's 
not flunking out. So why does 
Charlie Brown refuse to grow 
up and move on? 
Being a man of action (especially the kind of action which takes place only on a sheet of paper), I feel that it is our duty to update Charlie Brown's image now. At first I thought maybe we should go crazy and do some really dras­tic things. Lucy could be the unwed mother of a child whom she claims Is Schroeder's, but is, in reality, Franklin's. Maybe Peppermint Patty and Marcie could have renounced men and could be living together. Linus, in continuance with his "deep" mindset and addictive person­ality type, might be a Dead­head hooked on LSD ("What does that cloud look like to looking like Max Headroom. 
Despite the fact that his yel­low shirt is pretty cool, he'd probably have to go for a new wardrobe too. A few skinny 
ties. A Miami VIce jacket, 
maybe in pastel blue. Being a 
college student, he'd also have 
to go for a few college essen­
tials like a week's worth of 
sweatshirts, a cut-off pair of 
sweatpants, a beer T-shirt with 
a few funny stains on it --all of 
them, of course, ill-fitting. But I can't see the guy sporting a black concert T -shirt. Charlie Brown could never make it as one of those in-crowd jock types ... thank God. 
Charlie Brown's love-life would be the same as every other aspect of his life. The little red-headed girl would probably date a seven-foot Neanderthal football player and only talk to Chuck to say things like "Pass the salt" or "Excuse me." 
He'd fly his heart in the wind occasionally, only to have it repeatedly tangled in the tree 

Kevin Walsh 

"-' ;p

Behind the screen door 
c;--·, 

you?"). The possibilities are endless, but also much too scandalous. We're talking about some sacred figures in almost everybody's childhood here! 
If we're going to do this, we'll have to remain pretty faithful to the original charac­ters. We'll have to keep them middle-class, suburban prod­ucts. We'll have to avoid mali­ciousness. We'll also have to stop using the "Royal We." 
Actually, Charlie Brown would fit in pretty nicely as a college student, much more like you or me than either of us would ad­mit. 
In a self-defeating attempt to 
" I'd be happy to see Snoopy forced into the wild, then hunted down and killed." 
be "cool," I'm pretty sure he'd succumb to the lure of trendl­ness. He'd grow out his hair and try to look like a member of Duran Duran. Once he realized that wouldn't cut it, he'd probably get it frosted and use mousse to make It stand on end. This would only look dumber, and eventually, one of the muck-mouthed grownups in his little universe would say something like "Mwah-mwuh­mwha-mwhal?" which ol' Chuck would translate loosely as "What happened to your fat head?" 
Next he'd make the move for a flat top and he'd walk around of heartache. He'd try to kick the Football of Love just to find it snatched cruelly from beneath his foot by some femme fatale or other. He'd end up like many of us at the end of every weekend, on his back, stars and swirls swim­ming around his head, trying to figure out exactly where things took a turn for the wrong. 
It's pretty obvious that col­lege would present an ideal setting for Charlie Brown. Lots of new opportunities. Lots of new and interesting people. He'd live with a bunch of Pig Pens. Most of us do. 
Of course, the Snoopy char­acter presents a big problem. No Dogs Allowed On campus. Sorry, we're going to have to let ol' Snoops go. This wouldn't bother me a bit, of course. First off, he's too damn cute. I also find him pretty annoying in his omnipresence, like the Statue of Liberty this summer or Garfield. Actually, I'd be happy to see Snoopy forced into the wild, then hunted down and killed. I guess Woodstock can stay, at least he's mute. 
So that would be the new Peanuts. Somebody would have to overhaul all those classic TV specials to fit this new idea. Here are my suggestions for a couple of those reworkings: 
HALLOWEEN SPECIAL: Charlie Brown and his friends go to a fraternity costume party. Schroeder picks up a girl dressed like a punk. Linus meets a girl dressed as a huge squash, takes her as a distant cousin of The Great Pumpkin, and spends the night lrt 'the woods with her. Sally meets a guy dressed up like Linus and attacks him. Charlie Brown, of course, gets a rock. 


CHRISTMAS SPECIAL: Right after final exams, Charlie Brown goes out to a party and experiences the mysterious, bizarre wonders of egg nog. Wandering home the wrong way, he passes out facedown in 
An American in Moscow 
a snowbank. He wakes up two days later with a screaming Banshee of a hangover and finds that his face has been 
frozen solid. He also realizes that it is Christmas, and, wan­dering the deserted campus alone, is forced to discover the true meaning of Christmas: it's totally useless without other people and presents. 
In messing with Charlie Brown, I have to be really care­ful. Would he make it to Yup­piedom? I don't think so; he's way too underconfident. Also, I don't think he would look too hot in Reeboks and a power tie. Finally, if he became an adult, he'd have to start talking like one. You know what I mah­mow-muh-mow-mow? 
T 
he Iron Curtain. Bread Moscow because it is impor­lines. Red Square. Un­tant for us, as Americans and happy people. caviar and fellow human beings, to try Vodka. Soldiers on the and understand what life is streets. Soviet defectors. So­like on the other side, whe­viet spies. Super Summits. ther that be the other side of 
Siberia. The Cold War. the Iron Curtain, the other 
Mary Berger 
C'est Ia Vie 
Before visiting the U.S.S.R., when the word "Russia" popped into my mind, the preceding ideas accompanied it. However, after a trip to this country, whose language has the same word for "world" and "peace", these Images have been disfigured and new ones created. 
Where to begin? I think anyone who has visited Russia will find it difficult to tell you "how they liked It" or "what they thought." One must search for the words to describe a culture which is so very much alike but, also, so very different from the west. How can one emphasize that dilapidated cardboard-box­buildings line every street and are on every corner in Mos­cow? Can what is felt in the heart and questioned in the mind while viewing Soviet life ever be put into words so that the reader can feel and see the sameness, the drabness, the simple existence as well? 
I am golrig to do my best to paint an accurate, insight­ful picture of my four days In side of town, or the other 
side of the fence. 
Anticipation of our voyage, preparations, and the trip it­self were filled with a sense of adventure. We left Angers on the .3:00a.m. train. Our slip­ping off into the night only served to heighten heartbeats. Upon arrival in the capital city of Moscow, pas­sport control and customs were simple hurdles to be crossed. Will they confiscate my Cosmopolitan magazine? Did anyone's passport get stamped? 
Once on the bus, exhaus­tion set in. Between head­bobs, though, I was indeed struck by the emptiness and vastness of the snow-covered land, as well as the dreariness and seemingly bad condition of meager homes clustered throughout the countryside. 
I woke up when we arrived in town, and my eyes were opened In more than one way. I saw the people lined up outside of stores and shopping within. Wool coats and fur hats five abreast and as far as the eye could see filled the sidewalks. Stairways of metro stations were shuf­fling masses of people, and public buses overflowed as they passed the Bolshoi Theatre and statues of great figures in Soviet history, such as Karl Marx. 
The streets and people of Moscow were to become familiar sights in the next four days as we were shuttled around, compliments of "In­tourist," the main, if not the only, tourist organization of Russia. Their red buses are everpresent in Moscow. 
Stops at traditional tourist sights like Red Square, St. Basil's cathedral, and the Metro were truly educational and overwhelming. but more eye-opening were chats with Leonard, our guide, who was with us throughout the weekend, and mingling with Moscovites in museums and at the theatre. 
In his Dallas Cowboys stocking cap and calvin Klein jeans, Leonard greeted us after customs and swept us off on the whirlwind weekend­special package of Moscow. He was quiet at first and did not Interact much with our group. As time went on, however, he became much more relaxed and was, I believe, rather frank with us ... 
Editor's note: this is the first ofa two-part series. The second will appear tomorrow. 
I

Wednesday April 8, 1987 -page 7
The Observer 
I 
Sports Briefs 
Dancin' Irish tryouts will be held beginning Sunday, April 12, from 3 to 6 p.m., with the first clinic at Rockne Memorial's third floor gym. First cuts will be Monday, April 13, from 6 to 9 
p.m. at Gym 1 of the ACC. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women are invited to participate. 
-The Observer 
Irish spring runs will be held Sunday, April12, at 1 p.m. The cost is $4 if preregistered, $5 the day of the race. There will be trophies, door prizes, refreshments and t-shirts, and those who wear green will receive a dollar. The runs will be three and six miles long. -The Observer 
Classifieds 
Women's Bookstore Basketball schedules can be picked up tomorrow and Friday between 3 and 5 p.m. at the An Tostal office, second floor LaFortune. -The Observer 
The ND Golf Blue Team, its second squad, placed second in the nine-team Southwest Mic­higan Junior College Tournament at Hampshire Country Club. Norm Campbell paced the Irish with a score of 77 followed by Tom Ryan's 79. Mike Culver and Bobby Kloska scored 80s and George Molinsky added an 81 score. -The Obser­ver 
Notre Dame track coach Joe Piane has been selected as an assistant coach for a United States all-star track squad that will com­pete in England this July. The U.S. team is spon­sored by TAC (The Athletic Congress) and will be chosen at the TAC national meet in June. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
NOTICES 
Typ1ng Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·7009 
Wordproceaalng 277-8131 
Wordprocess1ng-Typ1ng 272-6827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
2B7-40B2 
UNIVERSITY RESUME Prolaaalonal Rnumaa Student Retaa Near lha Mall 272-8338 
HELP! Need nde to & from MPLS, MN lor Easter Will share expenses. Call Fans at 1B73. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST· TWO GOLD CHAINS IN RM219 OF ROCKNE WED. MARCH 11 BEFORE BREAK GOLD TEDDYBEAR PENDENTONONE PLEASE HELP. NO QUESTIONS ASKED KATHY BRIENZA. 109 WALSH. 283-2699 
Lost: A blue Totes umbrella on 326 at the poet oH1ce at approXImately 10:45 
a.m II found, please call Tim at x4073. 
TO THE CHEESEHEAD WHO STOLE MY GLOVES FROM THE LIBRARY IT'S DORKS LIKE YOU WHO MAKE THIS SCHOOL WHAT IT IS P.S. YOU'RE A GOOF 
KEYS AND KEY CfiAIN LOST SATUR­DAY NIGHT (:Y.lMI7) ON REX STREET. NO AVENUE, OR AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4249111 PLEASE HELPIIII ESPECIALLY NEED THE KEYSIII 
LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN SOMETIME WED OR THURS.--GREAT SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE IIF FOUND PLEASE CALL ROSE 1319. THANKS! 
Loat In Bookatora Game White London Fog jacket ar Stepan on +2 II found. please call Pete ar 3234 or 3926. 
1 still have not located my Rolex Watch. or my high school class ring--Detroit Catholic Central, blue stone, gold ring. The ring hllll a lot ol value as any class ring does. II you have It, or know some­one who does. please contact me or the rector ol Flenner No questions will be asked. The inscription lnaide is my lull name -Eric £1078 
FOR RENT 
8 bedroom HI students $-400500 & utllitiea. Security system 234 6688 
SUM STOR:aJI belonings(incl lur)sallt'BICure Bill M.2327418 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683· 88B9 
Houses For Rent-3 and 4 bedroom homea lor aummer and ne>rt achool year. Clean and furnished. Leu than 1 mile from campue. Call Lennie at 234-7650. 
House available June tal lor long-tenm lease. $>400tno. 277-71 21 before 9pm 
WANTED 
WORK FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS SUMMER. 883-8889 Need ride to CINCI th1s weekend. Call Joe 1725 
GOING TO ST. LOUIS FOR EASTER 
BREAK? 

We need a ride therel II you can take 
two riders, please call Mary at 2B3-3726. 
We'll share all usual expenses. 
CHICAGO-BOUND GRADSIII Female Roommate needed. 2 BrIt bath. Lincoln Park apt. June 1 sl. For more Info: call Pam (312)34B-66BB,SMC 'B6 
WANTED: rider to Southern Ca. area after sprtng game. No expenses just share driving. Also 1J2 price ticket Wed. April 30 from Chic. to L.A. Contact Dan at 2319 
RIDE NEEDED TO NY I can leave Wed 4't 5 lor Easter. Call Jim x1157. 
The Easter Beagle hides my eggs In Crandall Park, not Leeper Park Help me el to Youngstown. OH to lind 
them. I would like a ride there and back, will share the usual, and can leave 4't 5. II you can help, call Laura at 272-6014. 
I NEED GRAD TIX PLEASE HELPIII X1549 
2 RIDERS TO SYRACUSE, NY FOR EASTER. Share expense&tlrivlng. Call Amy 283-3723 
Ride needed-Akron exit Ohio Tump1ke, can leave Wed after 1 1 :00 Kristen £2702 
Need ride to BOSTON EASTER BRK. Call 284-5459 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO TUESDAY, APRIL 14. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL MAUREEN AT 4281. 
DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WILL BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. 
Despeately need ride to NY!NJ, leaving 4't 6 and returning 41.11. Please call Scott at 3175. 
Need ride to Dead show on April 10. Call Russ at 4666. 
Bass player sought for rock and roll band. Preferably underclassman. Musical inter­ests Include: Who, U2, Kinks, Cars. Police. Stones, Beetles, Van Halen, Rush, Zeppelin. Call Pete at 4644 or Kurt at 3175 lor more information. 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21¢, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshlres, WSI, arts&crafls, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pian<>jllay lor shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, guitar, radio, video,archery, year­book, woodworking, AN and typists. Write:Camp Emerson, 5 Brassle Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 914'779­
8406. 
Here lor the summer and need a place to stay? I need one female roomate to share Turtle Creek apt. Call SMC-5239 II interested. 
FOR SALE 

2 ROUND TRIP TICKETS TO HAWII FROM ANY INT' AIRPORT. GOOD UN­TIL DEC. BB. PRICE $50.00. IF INTER· ESTED CALL MARY AT 287-3924. 
'76 FORD GRANADA LOW MILES. GREAT HWY PERFORMANCE. BEST OFFER. CALL TIM-x27n or xt207 
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER (I'M GRADUATING). CORRECTABLE. HARDLY USED. BEST OFFER. CALL TIM-x2777, xt207 
ROUND-TRIP UNITED AIR TICKET Continental U.S. $200\:lHer -Jim 283-1 000 
TICKETS 
NEIL DIAMOMD TIX 
YOU WANT 'EM, I GOT 'EM 
FLOOR & LOWER ARENA CALL NEIL AT 2B3-3022 
SIX U2 TIX FOR SALE BEST OFFER OVER $50 Call Chad after 6 at 272-8414 
.......................................... 
DO YOU NEED MONEY? GOOD... I NEED GRADUATION TIXI CALL DIANNE AT 2617. 

I PERSONALS I 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or leaae a car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing avallabla lor all US elates. 
LARGEST selection of Cliff-Monarch Notes In Michianal Bu)I'Sell--textbooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, BOB Howard St. just off ol N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
Are you going to be hera lor SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
If so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues ol the 
n newspaper. The jobs are varied and, If you are inter­ested in newspaper training in your spare time. call The Observer offices and ask lor Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
The Observer and Special Olympics NEEDS YOUIII 
HOT ICE HOT ICE HOT ICE April 8-10 noon Haggar Center, SMC BE THERE 
Need ride to Indiana University Bloomington weekend ol Apr. 10. Call Miriam at 2687. 
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dams-St. Mary's College Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.................•.... 0 Where, 0 Where has our little Scoop gone? 
Scott Dupree'• Top 10 Motor Oils & T elecopier Uses No.6· STP No. 5 • Get latest on DePaul's Sally An­
derson 
Need ride to CLEVELAND lor Easter. Debbie 2960 
SMC-ND LONDON-ROME SUMMER PROGRAMS Beginning May 20 Organlzatlonel Maallng April 13, 7:00 pm 349 Madeleve Hell Vlu Pictures Available lor Information call Prof. A.R. Black 284-4480(ofllce) 272-3728(home) 
SENIOR FORMAL CANDIDS ON DISPLAY: MONDAY-FRIDAY SMC.HCC 
2-5 ND,LAFORTUNE 5:30-8:30 P.M. 

ATIENTION One way ticket from Chicago to Buffalo-$BO I On April 16 at 1:44PM. II interested call Liza al 3474 1 
Round trip ticket to O.C.$100-Easter Call Tash at 2n 5626 
FOR SALE: THE LOFT TO END All LOFTS Called "the second floor" by its current owner, This loll has everything. A siderail to keep you from falling down, a steel ladder to keep you going up, a shelf up top to hold your clock, candle, etc. Must see to believe, but il you're Inter­ested call 2B4-5125 and ask lor Gertie. 
81' OMN1,40R.,LOW MILES, AUTO TRANS,AIR, CALL 234-3792. 

The ObMnw Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune S• dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Mond. through Friday. The ObMnw Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor 01 Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next~ay classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five chaniCters per day. 
THANKS AGAIN, YOU BIG LUGS lor the "run" on Saturday.•. MIKE THE WONDER KITE will remain forever In our mlnda. Klaay, Klaay 
Farley 244 
WE WANT GORGAR TO RUN FOR U.M.O.C. 
Mike "GORGAR" Gurdak lor U.M.O.C. Ill 
GGARGORgargorGARGORgargorGA­RGORgargorGARGORgargor gargor-
Hey, I put ads in here all last week asking for the return of my levis Jeans Jacket which was taken from a lewis party last weekend, and what do I get? No response, that's what I get. I hope the concerned party realizes the weather isn't going to warm up until my jacket Is returned, so call Paul at 2287 and I'll let 
Spring begin. No questions asked. 
TOASTMASTERS -MANDATORY MEETINGIII CLUB ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD WED APRIL 8 7PM IN RM. 223 HAYES HEALY. BE THEREI 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: "HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 
123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS WELCOME. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: "HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT 
123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL All MAJORS WELCOME. 
GRADUATING IN MAY? WHERE ARE YOU IN YOUR JOB SEARCH? A WORKSHOP FOR ALL GRADUAT­ING STUDENTS. PRESENTED BY JEFF RICE, CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00P.M. TONIGHT. 117 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
GRADUATING IN MAY? WHERE ARE YOU IN YOUR JOB SEARCH? A WORKSHOP FOR All GRADUAT­ING STUDENTS. PRESENTED BY JEFF RICE, CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00p.m. TONIGHT. 117 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 
Need 1 ride to Indiana Unlverelty thla 
wHkend? Call Miriam at 2687. 
PALM SUNDAY COMMETH... Aren't you even a tittle curious about that hot short story Mark? PALM SUNDAY...1· .And she did It all herself. 
Challenge your mind with a major or ncond major In theology-the ayn­thaala of the liberal arta. Aa preraglatrallon lor thalallapproachaa, now Ia the lime to dlacuaa the poaal­blllllaa with E. Gorakl, C.S.C., In 340 O'Shaghnaaay. 
Participate In a lenten prayer nrvlce entitled "Chrlatlan Prayer Enhanced By Yoga Tachnlquaa." Sr. Elena Melita, Prot.aaor of Rellgloua Studlaa, will lead lhla nrvlce tonight at10:00 
P.M. In Farley Hall Chapel. Thla Ia lor theology majora and all other lnter­nlad paraona. • . , ....................................... , ........................ .!' Guitarist looking to form a rock band 
All spots available except drummer Call Andy Therbllr at 283-3039 Thank You St. Jude 

Help Celebrate National Senior Thesis Week! Type a page for a senior you love I 
WANTED --CRAZED WEASEL Well, here It Is --your own personal in the paper. I can tell you're just as excited as I am. Hope your ready for the weekend because any spare time you have you should consider spoken for...call It a "local" formal. Any requests lor breakfast on Saturday? Until then, see you at Bookstore. 
Mr. Hohenstein: "And there was much rejoicing." Thanks for the party I Theo.100:09 
DRUIDS do BOOKSTORE 

Yea, the Drulda will dlapley their baa­ketball proweaa today at Stepan Courta at 8:15. Expect the goda to emile upon the occealon. Come and aupport ua. look, we brought you aprlng, didn't we? 
Spring shall arrive. 

.................................................. 
Well, STANTON, first you go and censor 
someone's classislied, then you write a 
column on killing off moles. Having a 
good week, aren't we? 
....... 
NO Crew Invitational Regatta. April 11, Come support your favorite oarsman. 
......................... 
"CONTRACEPTION-A SUPPORTING ARGUMENT" by Elizabeth Mooney, cer­tified sex therapist and counselor. 7PM WED. April Bin LaFortune little Theatre. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS As ol12 Noon today, there are 914 hours laflin Senior year. Time's a-running outl 
ATIENTION SOCIAL COMMIS­
SIONERS The ONLY DJs THAT MAT­
TER are graduatlngll You have only 4 weeks left ol the best music on campus. Don't mess with bands and don't be tooled by Imitations, there is only 1 ONLY DJs THAT MATIER CALL NOWII PAT 2n-3687 DON 283· 3675 TITO 2n-0973 
Dave Klnkopl: Will you be my Romeo? My knight In shining armor, my hero, my leading man?? My heart flutters at your 
every move. 
A lonaaome lair malden, Juliet 

CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP THIS SATURDAY CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP ONLY $4 ONLY $4 CHICAGO TRIP APRIL 11 LEAVE AT NOON SIGN UP 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE, SAB OFFICE-TIUFR/ 
RIDE NEEDED TO EASTERN TENNES­SEE FOR EASTER-WILL SHARE EX· PENSES -CALL 3233 
BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK 
,,,,,,...._,,,,,,,,,_,,,,,.,H,..,,,,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
DEAR PETE AND CHRIS IT SURE DOES HAVE TO DO WITH THE COT­TAGE. .. COTIAGE CHEESE! LOVE DAWN ANDJO 
DAVID G. SCOTI FOR UMOC--The G. is for Grusomelllll Dave for UMOC--he has a nose like a crane and a lace like a dragon ill 
SMILE 
FERKS Potato skins and kahluatream and K-bars are dietetic. aren't they? Sim­mon's (not Richard), car topics dictated as I type, etc. Thanks! MERKS 
DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M .NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FULL­TIME JOB, AND I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PlEASE CAll MIKE AT 282-3727. 
THE ADVENTURES OF THE MOO MAMAS CONTINUE AS THEY PREPARE TO LIPOSUCTION SCARY ED AT THE FOOT OF THE UGLY ROCK OF LUST AND DESIRE ...DON'T LOSE THAT BEAD. 
HAPPY 21ST B-DAY M.J. ONCE AGAIN ITS YOUR DAYI PREPARE FOR AF­TERGIRTHII LOVE DAVID, MATT, OJ, AND THE HOOSIER! 
To Miss Peach Schnapps, 
I regret to Inform you that your evaluation 
ol "e" listed here on 7 April, 19B7 was 
grossly Incorrect. The value 
2.7tB28tB28459045 does NOT equal 
"e". It Is merely an approximation. Please 
try to be more specific In the future. Love, 
Corporal Psycho 

Lu Lu P.T. Dad Danny ''THE BABY" Mary Paul Dav1d 0 .W. HAPPY 21ST AMY WE ALL LOVE YOU AND MISS YOUIII Uncle Bill Grandma & Grandpa Nania Katie 
PITISBURGH CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS 
LaFortune Lobby 7:00 Thursday April 9 
JOHN CASKO-You're crazy II you don't take ONLOOKER up on her offer. I've been whipped for years, but no luck. A (Male) Wei/wisher 
Hi, Ken. What's new? 
M&M M&M M&M 
MARY MARCHAL 
lor 

BAND VICE-PRESIDENT 
THURS APRIL 9TH 
ADD A "little vice" TO YOUR LIFE I 
M&M M&M M&M 

JANEL---WHAT DID YOU SAY YOU 
WERE SHOPPING FOR? 
I'VE GOT SOMETHING ON YOU SO 
YOU BETTER TELL ME OR THE 
WHOLE WORLD WILL KNOW OF 
YOUR ESCAPADE! 
HAHAHAHAHAHAHI 
CONGRATULATIONS ICKABOD AND CAROL-HONOR ROLL AT PONTIAC! 
JANEL WHY DON'T YOU GIVE ME A ...R 
I N G ... lll LOVE, MIMI. • 
CHRIS AND PETE SORRY BAREFOOT BOWLERS NO FUN THIS WEEK DO GREAT ON ALL TESTS NO CHEATS IN ACCT. HERE'S 2 A 2ND WKND 2· GETHER GOT ANY SEAGRAMS GOLDEN? NO LAME ROSES-REALLY WE LUV THEM & U BOTHI JO & DAWN 
Ann Kaltenbach, you personals godess, Congratulations on being accepted to NORTHWESTERN. You·re a genius. I 
heard this through the grape-vine. -luv, smc personals abuser. 
Ticket avail. lor Easter-retum 1 way­lsllp(LI),NY to Ch1cago.Great prlce.Call Kalhleen-284-5239. 
FOR NEW UNITY & PRIDE IN OUR BAND 'VOTE'VOTE'VOTE MIKE ANDERSON FOR 'BAND SECRETARY' THURS. APRIL 8 
II Isn't f8aly Amy Trader's birthday tOday. She just wants an excuse to gel drunk and mash, 
The Slande111r. 

IWIIdebeest, 
AN lite Best on your 21st .... 
(A·A·A·Whooshll) 
James llelllo and 
The Entire ND 
Anthropology Dept. 


April 8, 1987 The Observer page 8 

ac %C ac h 
The Saint Mar~' s Department of English 
presents 
lrfl~e l[)iii1liilll9JUiiiilll~edl 1Voe1l l~ii,clllatlrdl lriilllliilll9111lati1t Reading from his works 
April 9 at 4:30 pm ... Cushwa,Leighton Library T·Jp Floor (2M) ~)outh Lounge 

Sports 

Irish Lacrosse 
Through Sunday 

PLAYER, POS. G-GS John Mclachlan, A 4-4 John Olmstead, A 4-4 Tom Lanahan, M 4-0 Jim Shields, A John McNicholas, M Dave O'Neill, M Jeff Shay, A Art Brady, M Mike Brennan, D 3-0 Mike Quigllly, M 4·0 Kevin Cullinan, M iii 4-0 Dave Kiddllr, M 2~0 Brian McHugh, A 2·0 Brendan Cahill, D 4.0 
Mark RiUieri, M 2-ll John Aickinger, M 1-0 Wally Stack, 0 4-4 Jim Fallon, D 4-4 Dick Milone, D 4·4 Doug Spencer, D 4-4 Randy McDonald, C 4.0 Dave Carey, A 1..() Mike Stevens, D 3-Q Mark Healy, M 2·0 Jeff Glazier, G 4·4 
NOTRE DAME 4-4 OPPONNETS 4-4 
Face Offs: Notre Dame 45 of 85 (,529) Extra Man: Notre Dame 13 of 32 (.4{)6), Clllars-Falls: Notre Dame 61·34 (.642), 
GOALTENDER G-GS Jeff Glazier 4-4 
NOTRE DAME 4-4 OPPONENTS 4"<1 
American League 
East Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  1  0  1.000  
Milwaukee  1  0  1.000  
New York  1  0  1.000  
Toronto  1  0  1.000  
Boston  0  1  .0  
Cleveland  0  1  .0  
Detroit  0  1  .0  
West Division  
California  1  0  1.000  
Chicago  1  0  1.000  
Minnesota  1  0  1.000  
Kansas City Oakland  0 0  1  .0 .0  
Se.attle  0  .0  
Texas  0  .0  
Tuesday's Results  

California 7, Seattle 1 Minnesota 5, Oakland 4 (10 innings) 
Today's Results Cleveland at Toronto New York at Detroit Texas at Baltimore Boston at Milwaukee Oakland at Minnesota Chicago at Kansas City Seattle at California 
lnterhall Soccer 
Division I ISO over Sorin Pangborn 1 , Holy Cross B o Dillon Red over Law School Grace over Silver Thunder 
Division II Flanner 3, Grace-2 1 Howard over Gerlacher Morrissey over Keenan Z Holy Cross A over Cavanaugh 
Women's Division Pasquerilla West 1, Pasquerilla East 0 Pasquerilla East over Badin 
··•··•·•·•···H3·3;0 
. 3-2.5 
t"O:s 
H.O O.:!lQ 0 
·· ·o-o.o 
.o-o.o 
o-o;o 

National League 
East Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
New York  1  0  1.000  
St. Louis  1  0  1.000  
Chicago Montreal  0 0  .0 .0  
Philadelphia Pittsburgh  0 0  .0 .0  
West Division  
Houston  2  0  1.000  
San Francisco  2  0  1.000  
Atlanta  1  0  1.000  .5  
Cincinnati  1  0  1.000  .5  
Los Angeles San Diego  0 0  2 2  .0 .0  2 2  
Tuesday's Results  

New York 3, Pittsburgh 2 St. Louis 9, Chicago 3 Atlanta 6, Philadelphia 0 Houston 6, Los Angeles 5 San Francisco 4, San Diego 3 
Today's Games Montreal at Cincinnati Los Angeles at Houston San Diego at San Francisco 
lnterhall Baseball 
Gold Division Stanford-2 over Carroll A Dillon over Alumni 
Red Division Stanford-1 over Fisher 
Blue Division Grace over Pangborn, forfeit Cavanaugh-1 over Carroll B, forfeit Pangborn 7, Flanner 4 Off Camous-2 over Carroll B, forfeit 
White Division Dillon 2, Zahm 0 Morrissey over Flanner B Flanner B over Alumni-2 

ednesdax 

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Baseball at Illinois-Chicago 
Thursday No sports scheduled 
Friday No sports scheduled 

Saturday Baseball at Tulane (2) Lacrosse vs. KENYON Women's tennis at Toledo Golf at Indianapolis lntercollegiates Track at Northwestern Invitational Track at Stanford Invitational 
Sunday Baseball at Tulane (2) Men's tennis vs. EASTERN MICHIGAN Women's tennis at Eastern Michigan 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday Baseball at Valparaiso Men's tennis at Western Michigan Lacrosse vs. LAKE FOREST 
College Baseball 

Baseball America Top 25 The top 25 college baseball teams as determined by the staff of Baseball America magazine with records through games of Sunday and last week's rankings (Notre Dame opponents are in italics): 
1. 
Texas 

2. 
Oklahoma State 

3. 
Louisiana State 

4. 
Florida State 

5. 
Pepperdine 

6. 
UCLA 

7. 
Stanford 


B. Fullerton State 
9. 
Clemson 

10. 
Georgia Tech 

11. 
Oklahoma 

12. 
Arkansas 

13. 
Georgia 

14. 
Indiana State 

15. 
New Orleans 

16. 
South Carolina 

17. 
Southern Cal 

18. 
Texas A&M 


19. Baylor 
20. 
Nebraska 

21. 
Oregon State 

22. 
South Florida 

23. 
Auburn 

24. 
Washington State 

25. 
Miami (Fla.) 


World Cup Marathon 

INDIANAPOLIS -Members of the U.S. team selected by The Athletics Congress to compete in the International Amateur Athletic Federation's World Cup Marathon Saturday and Sunday in Seoul, South Korea: 
Women-Saturday Laura Albers, 29, Grand Rapids, Mich. Janice Ettie, 29, St. Cloud, Minn. Barbara Filutze, 40, Erie, Pa. Cheryl Haprer, 24, Orem, Utah Carol Urish-Mclatchie, 35, Houston, Texas 
Team Manager:  Laurel  James, Seattle,  
Wash.  
Men-Sunday  

Daniel Gonzalez, 24, Mountainview, Calif. Brad Hawthorne, 31, San Ramon, Calif. David Olds, 25, Los Angeles Frank Plasse, 26, Las Vegas Tom Ratcliffe, 27, Wellesley, Mass. Team Manager: Creigh Kelley, Engllewood, Colo. 
38-7 1 25-1 4 23-5 3 29-9 2 28-8 7 27-11 5 25-10 6 25-11 9 28-5 8 24-6 10 24-6 13 27-7 15 20-9 17 26-6 12 25-10 14 24-5 19 
25 18 33-12 
29-9 11 
20-4 20 
13-5 22 
27-14 24 
21-7 
22-9 
23-14 
Final Wales Conference Adams Division 

w L T GF GA Pta. Hartlord 43 30 7 287 270 93 Montreal 41 29 10 277 241 92 Boston 39 34 7 301 276 85 Quebec 31 39 10 267 276 72 z-Buffalo 28 44 8 280 308 64 
Patrick Division Philadelphia 46 26 8 310 245 100 Washington 38 32 10 285 278 86 
N.Y. 
Islanders 35 33 12 279 281 82 

N.Y. 
Rangers 34 38 8 307 323 76 z-Pittsburgh 30 38 12 297 290 72 z-New Jersey 29 45 6 293 368 64 


Campbell Conference Smythe Dvlslon 

w  L  T  GF  GA  Pts  
Edmonton  50  24  6  372  284  106  
Calgary Winnipeg Los Angeles  46 40 31  31 32 41  3 8 8  318 279 318  289 271 341  95 88 70  
z-Vancouver  29  43  8  282  314  66  
Norris Division  
St. Louis  32  33  15  281  293  79  
Detroit  34  36  10  260  274  78  
Chicago Toronto  29 32  37 42  14 6  290 286  310 319  72 70  
z·Minnesota  30  40  10  296  314  70  

z-did not make the playoffs 
Tonight's Playoff Games 
Firat Round Quebec at Hartlord Boston al Montreal 
N.Y. 
Rangers at Philadelphia 

N.Y. 
Islanders at Washington Los Angeles at Edmonton Winnipeg at Calgary Toronto at St. Louis Chicago at Detro·,, 



lnterhall Lacrosse 
Central Division Holy Cross over Keenan B, forfeit Keenan A 7, Stanford 0 
North Division Grace 2, Off Campus Crime 2 OC Beastie Boys over Carroll, forfeit 
South Division Morrissey 2, Alumni 1 Dillon 1, Howard 1 Fisher ove~ Pangborn, forfeit 
Sports Lists 



The Masters Tournament 
&ore Card 
ToplO Finishes Titles 
19 
6 
2
17 
15 
3 
15 
3 
2
14 
Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
y-Boston x-Philadelphia x-Washington New York  55 42 38 24  22 34 37 52  .714 .553 .507 .316  12.5 16 30.5  
New Jersey  23 52 Central Division  .307  31  
x-AIIanta  51  24  .680  
x-Detroit  49  27  .645  2.5  
x-Milwaukee  46  31  .597  6  
x-lndiana  38  37  .507  13  
x-Chicago Cleveland  38 28  39 49  .494 .364  14 24  
Western Conference  
Midwest Division  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
y-Dallas x-Utah  51 41  25 35  .671 .539  10  
x-Houston  39  38  .506  12.5  
Denver  35  42  .455  16.5  
Sacramento  26  49  .347  24.5  
San Antonio  26  49  .347  24.5  
Pacific Division  
y-L.A. Lakers x-Portland  61 45  15 30  .803 .600  15.5  
x-Golden State  38  37  .507  22.5  
Seattle  36  41  .468  25.5  
Phoenix  31  45  .408  30  
L.A. Clippers  12  63  .160  48.5  
Last Night's Results Milwaukee 95. Washington 94  
Cleveland 107, Boston 83  
Indiana 128, New Jersey 114 Chicago 116, Detroit 86 Phoenix 127, Seattle 125 OT  
Houston 102, L.A. Clippers 84 Denver 129, Golden State 126 OT  
Tonight's Games Washington at New Jersey Philadelphia at Atlanta  
Sacramento at San Antonio  
Dallas at Utah  
Irish Golf  

GOLFER STRK AVG LOW Doug Giorgio 611 76.38 74 Pat Mohan 611 76.38 73 John Connelly 622 77.75 74 Dick Connelly 626 78.25 75 Chris Bona 642 80.25 76 Notre Dame 3112 77.80 73 

Wednesday April 8, 1987 -page 9 
two innings, but came up runs short in a 13-10 final Eric Sandebburg got the while Paul Mauk took the oss for the Irish. The game asted over three hours, and in­three home runs, five pitches, two passed balls, walks, nine different 
, and 23 runs. 
Still, Notre Dame seemed to turning the tables on the in the second game. falling behind, 6-2, the Irish chipped away at Mic­higan State's lead, and trailed, 
after five innings. In the sixth inning, the same · where the Spartans made 
eight-run charge in the game, the Irish staged own comeback. Consecu­two-out singles by Pat Pesavento, Peltier, and Scott 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we otTer you a special discount. 
New apartments being built through Spring '87 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
Intercom entrances 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
• 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
Rogers gave Notre Dame an 8-6 lead and put the Irish three outs away from their first home vic­tory of the season. 
But the Spartans still had one more comeback left. Michigan State put two runners on base 
against Tom Howard, who had 
pitched  effectively  in  long  
relief,  and  Spartan  
centerfielder  Mike  Davidson  

hit a three-run homer over the left field wall off reliever Mike Harmon to give the Spartans a 9-8 lead. Michigan State added one more run in the inning, and held off the Irish in the bottom half of the seventh to provide for the final score of 10-8. Terry Bitter picked up the win for Michigan State, which raised its record to 9-8, while Harmon suffered the loss. 
Bookstore 
continuedjrompage 12 
nuts" cartoon fame, shot a putrid 3-for-28 for Team No. 164 in what must have been a humiliating 21-12 loss to Mr. Cheerio's Breakfast Club. 
The final twenty games of the first round take place tomor­row, as 100 more players seek to reach the second round and the much-coveted Final 256 teams in Bookstore Basketball XVI. 

As the first round comes to a close 
Bookstore Tournament 
Tuesday's Results 

Stepan 1 Team No. 651 over Team No. 172 by 11 East Side Runners over Toil and Trouble by 13 Team No. 488 over The Dunking Chefs of NOH by 11 Captain Kirk & 4 Other Guys over Dripping T.P.S. by 9 
Stepan 2 Yacht Club over Eye of the Hocps Hurricane by 12 You do Chicks, Qui do Doorknobs over Team No. 438 by 6 Father King & 4 Other Guys over 5 Guys Who Score by 11 Team No. 341 over Lay Up & Score ... by 5 
Stepan 3 Mr. Cheerio's Breakfast Club over Team No. 164 by 9 Team No. 346 over Flying Irish by 3 I Need a Lover Who Won't. .. over Bean Patch Kids by 9 McNahoonies over Achilles by 9 
Stepan 4 T sam No. 186 over Kerry & the Excited States by 18 Team that Time Forgot over A Guinea Pig ... by 16 Dead Chicks Don't Say No over Team No. 60 by 2 Love Fest Lives over Fisher Firemen by 1 8 
Stepan 5 Bud Dwyer & ... Sharpshooters over Skip Holtz ... by 7 5 Guys from Carroll... over T -Minus 8 Minutes by 17 Ed Smerciaki"s Last Hurrah over Hoosier Lawyers by 15 Team No. 222 over Uncontrollable Flatuents from Hell by 16 
Stepan 6 Team No. 295 over Team No. 178, 24-22 Team No. 529 over Blind Ambition by 12 Willie & the Wanna Bees over Team No. 234 by 19 5 Really Cocl Guys over 5 Girls Who Never... by 5 
Bookstore 9 

5 Guys Who Can't. .. over CNN Cheap & ... by 
forfeit Raging ... over Crime Against Nature by 17 Ivan Boesky & the Insiders over Get Your Tongue out. .. by 5 Priest, Nerd & 3 Dudes over Futures So Bright by 6 
Bookstore 10 4 Slamma Jamma over We Play Nerf Hocps by 7 Amerlka's Team over A Cat Eater by 2 Team No. 369 over Falto Frolics by 13 Vegas & the Cheesebags over Dr. Arkle by 15 
Lyons 11 Self-Appointed Fire Marshalls over Chicks & Bocze by 2 Myth Gods of Love... over Oui B II by 2 Otis Hurts over Total Freshness by 14 T sam No. 193 over Ferdinand Marcos & 4 Other Lovers... by 2 
Lyons 12 Disgrace over Jimbos Ball Bondsmen by 15 Ten Guys Nobody Likes over Boxer Blowouts by 9 Chris Rawson over Where Evil is, Mumrah Lurks, 26-24 We Eat Cannibals over John Holmes and ... by 13 
Wedneedey'a Games Stepan 1 
4:00 -The Board Bangers vs. Las Guasabaras 
4:45 -Team No. 622 vs. In-N-Out 5:30-Spigot O'Vomit vs. Team No. 175 6:15-The Cocl Team vs. Puff My Magic Dragon 
Stepan 2 
4:00 -Swiss, Colby, & 3 Other Cheeses vs. Team No. 659 

4:45 -Leone's Stallions vs. Team No. 347 
5:30 -G-Men vs. Revenge of the Plaidsters 6:15-Sheep Thrills vs. Tequila Sunrise & the Michelob Lights 
Stepan 3 

4:00 -Team No. 208 vs. Team No. 335 
4:45 -Duncan Hines vs. Lock'n Toast'em 
5:30 -Pete & Toni are Fat vs. Team No. 511 
6:15 -Papa Sumby & Flying Eggmen vs. Un­knowables 
Stepan 4 
4:00 -Team No. 636 vs. Fat Chicks 4:45-Team No. 51 vs. Transport Phenomenon 
5:30 -Team No. 644 vs. 4 Thugs and a Hub 
6:15-4 FaQs & A Zahmbie vs. Druids Stepan 5 
4:00 -Mlchiana Expreas vs. Propazition Photy­Ate 

4:45 -7 Guys Who Still Can't Add vs. Peace 
love Dove 
5:30 -We Don't Dribble Before We... vs. Plether 
& the Pseudo-Cows 6:15-Team No. 489 vs. A Name Joe Cassidy Wouldn't Allow 
Stepan 6 

4:00 -Team No. 385 vs. 4 Engineers & a Blo Major 
4:45 -Len Bias & 4 Other Guys vs. Team No. 
635 
5:30 -Gashmasters vs. Glazed Donuts 
6:15 -Team No. 271 vs. Sween's Dogs 
Bookstore 9 

4:00 -Colin Rowe ... vs. Michael Jordan's II· legitimate Sons 
4:45 -Desperados vs. Team No. 62 
5:30 -The Cunning ... vs. The 4 Unlicensed Gynecologists 6:15-The Docble Brothers vs. Team No. 832 
Bookstore 10 

4:00 
-Cotton Club vs. Team No. 530 4:45-Return of the Fugitive Guy vs. Team No. 661 5:30-Tequila Light Whitening vs. Team No. 37 6:15-Team No. 337 vs. Team No. 47 

Lyons 11 


4:00 
-Computer Whiz & ... vs. Spanish Fly & 


4:45-Team No. 430 vs. The Yellow Submarine X-Meats 
5:30 -Malandros vs. Yeah, But We'll Outdrink You Anyway 6:15-Penguins In Bondage vs. Team No. 27 
Lyons 12 

4:00 -Gods & Men at NO vs. It's Geed to be 
Messy Kings 4:45-Keenan 3rd vs. Wretched Return of Red Red Wine ' 
5:30-What's Smaller Than ... vs. 3 Musketeers 
6:15-Top Guns vs. 5 Guys Who Smoke 
Colts quiet on NFL top pick 
The Colts, who finished 3-13 

last year, have the second pick 
NEW YORK -Coach Ron in the April 28 draft. Since Meyer of the Indianapolis Colts Tampa Bay signed Miami has declined comment on what quarterback Vinny Testaverde he and his team will do with last week, No. 2 has become their controlling spot in the No. 1, leaving Meyer with the NFL draft later this month. top pick. 
Associated Press 
God does not see as we see ­for we look at appearances, but the Lord looks into the heart. 
-1 Samuel 16:7 
Personal reflections by: 


BISHOP THOMAS J. GUMBLETON 
Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit President, Pax Christi, USA 
TONIGHT 7:00pm Sacred Heart Church 
A part of Peace With Justice Week and the Lenten Reflection Series. 

ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO" 
ONEHOUR 

MOTOPHOTo·· • Pictures ready in one hour UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality 272-8243 

ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTo·· 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3096 
----~;;-~~--~~~()--------------if=~~~-----------·c;rii<1liii:?~~~s;f>E!C:iiii ___ 
OFF FILM DEVELOPING EXTRA SET OF PRINTS 24 Wallet Size Portraits
•call for details about 
With this coupon, receive a FREE Extra Set of With this coupon receive 24 wallet size
With this coupon, receive SJ.OO OFF on a 36 · h · f 1 ­
your discount Prmts, w en presentmg one ro 11 o co or pnnt portraits when purchasing any regularly
exposure, s2.00 OFF on a 24 exposure, s1.00 f · d · 
t. film (C-41 process) or processmg an pnnt-priced portrait package at ONE HOUR
277-3731 OFF on a 12 exposure when presen mg a ro11 ing at One. Hour Moto Photo. Offer limited to of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro-one roll per coupon per customer. Not valid MOTO PHOTO. One coupon per custom-models and clubhouse cessing and printing at One Hour ~oto with any other promotion. er. Not valid with any other promotion. Pho_to. Coupon offers may not be combmed. Expires: june 30 , 1987. E · . J 30 1987 
open daily .. Exp1res june 30. 1987. ONEHOUR • ONEHOUR _ xp1res. une • · ONEHOUR _
•, W6 MOTOPHOTO W6 MOTOPHOTO *.University Mall only MOTOPHOTO 
L~~•·------------------------------------------------------------·-~-------------------------· 
The Observer 
Defensive line searches for depth, finds spirit 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
With the graduation of defen­sive standouts Robert Banks and Wally Kleine, one would think that the Notre Dame foot­ball team's defensive line was about as deep as Saint Mary's Lake. 
Spring Football '87 
Add to that the fact that Mike Griffin, the only returning let­terman on the line, is working out alone after being sidelined by back surgery in January, and the depth starts looking as deep as your average swamp. 
But in spite of these glaring weaknesses, the spirit and in­tensity on the line remain high in the early spring practices. 
"Mike's out along with (freshman) Jeff Aim, but we look at their return as a bonus thing," said Defensive Line Coach Joe Yonto. "We've had good competition so far this spring, and the goal for me is to find the best three out there." 
At left tackle, Yonto has junior Jeff Kunz at the top spot, followed by sophomore Ted Fitzgerald. At nose tackle, Tom Gorman currently is the leader, followed by Steve Rod­dy, Rich Morrison and Michael Crounse. Crounse and Mor­rison also are doubling at tackle. 
Yonto calls the battle for the right tackle spot "nip and tuck right now." Matt Dingens now holds the position on the first team, but he is battling fresh­man Bryan Flannery for the job. 
"I've been a journeyman for three years, and now I have an opportunity to play, and play a lot," said Dingens, a senior from Bloomfield Heights, Mich. "Flannery has great body strength, but I think I'll be able to hold the right tackle spot." 
Griffin, meanwhile, has been working out alongside the team during the spring, but has not suited up for the practices. He has spent his practice time going through conditioning drills alone while his team­mates go through the contact drills. 
"I don't see any problems with coming back in the fall," said Griffin. "But until then, I've just been doing what the trainers have told me." · 
Gorman, who has benefitted 
Toronto  
continued/rom page 12  
Championship fans pack the playoff time.  Series? house  Real come  

But nevertheless, Toronto was the scene of the opening of the baseball season. 
Maybe it isn't important at all, but it's just so wrong. Canada is fine for the Stanley Cup and Grey Cup but let it earn its way into the baseball hierarchy. Canada can have every NHL opener from now on. Just keep it away from Opening Day in the USA. 
most by Griffin's absence, agrees with Yonto's assess­ment of the line. 
"There are actually a lot of reserves out here, and a lot of hard hitting," said Gorman. "Spirits are high on the team, and I'm really happy to be where I am right now." 
Even Dingens, who has been 

scrapping for a starting spot, likes the way things look on the line. 
"I've been surprised at the depth, really," he said. "Of course, this early in the season it's the offense that has the problems with the numbers. But even with the numbers we have, there's a lot of good tal­ent. 
"It would be nice for Grif to come back, though. He's the type of player that gets in there and is just a fireplug--you can't move him." 
Yonto was pleased with the effort of his players during last Saturday's scrimmage, but cites problems with missed tackles and "the basic fundamentals--shooting gaps, releasing, using the pads--that kind of stuff. 
"I can't fault the way they've tried," said Yonto. "But the ob­ject of the spring drills is to get the teaching through and the basics down. We'll put in the frills and gimmicks in the fall, but we've got to have a foun­dation to do that well." 
Saint Mary's College and the Center for Spirituality cordially invite the public to The 1987 Madeleva Lecture "Women at Prayer" by 
Mary Collins, OSB Associate Director, Center for Benedictine Studies Atchison, Kansas 
An exploration of the shaping of spiritual traditions and the persistence of the ''non-traditional'' 
Thursday, April 9, 1987 7:30p.m. (J'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 
Admission free and 
open to the public 
For further information: 
219/284-4535 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUALffY SAINT MARY'S CDLLEGE 
L.._____________________. 


15761 Buckingham Parkway, Culver City, CA 90230 I 
IPlease send El-'5 Intensive English Program information to Ithe person below, along with a SSO Tuition DIIICount 1Certlftcate prest>nted in my name. (please print) 
II Name of prospective student 
~-------------------------­
1Add~s 
II =ci~------------C~ou-n-try___________ 
I You may lisl additional names on a separate sheet of paper
L 
Scnc1 my FREE ll S. Road Atlas• to: ( plPase print) 
Nanw 
Addn•ss 
Statt• Zip 

•supplv lumlt-d to om• pt•r ""'"'' aclcht"'li'> ahow ( )ffr•r c·xpi~ Junr :40, 1~7. 
:~ 

']I['4()t~.cll~------------------------------------------------------•W•e•dn•e•sd•a•y•A•pr•il•8•,•19•87---p•a•g•e.. ­
11 

loom County 
I WANmfl TrJ 60 Oliff?. !HE 1<1/t.f-S WITH YOt! (J(JYS 8£f()f(& ~ 60r 
mTHf 516 &I& 'ir me /fl()()(j{ UJflbf ... 
Campus 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
MJ {}()JZtrV ', NO 5frrT7N: NO MJONING 7Hf-IIV/lteNC£.. NO.• 1/11 .. 
KfeP~R 

\ Pll!Vr.i cw. 
I ?fJS!It"/7 
CKr/15C COIVTT(()t.. 
\ 
Mark Williams 


K£EPIN6 Tk/KJ(oF I-lOW HANy !5J1or vJ£ HI~S'!? S 

11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.: Economics De­tant Director Career and Placement Ser­partment Labor Workshop, "Estimates of vices, 117 O'Shaughnessy Gender Discrimination Based on Produc­7:00 p.m.: Lecture, "Contraception: tion Functions," by Paula Voos, Econom­Two Perspectives," by Elizabeth Mooney, ics and Industrial Relations, University of certified Sex Therapist and Counselor Wisconsin, Madison, 131 Decio sponsored by Thomas Moore Society, 
12:00 p.m.: Thomas J. White Center on LaFortune Little Theatre Law and Government Lecture, "Law, Re­7:00p.m.: Presentation, "Juniors: How ligion, and Cultural Change," by Rev. to Fill Out Your Profile Form", by Paul Christopher F. Mooney, S.J., Fairfield Reynolds, Associate Director Career Univ., 121 Law School Placement Services, 123 Nieuwland Sci­
12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Al­ence Hall coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 7:30p.m.: Lecture, by Bro. H. Lewis 
2:30 -5:00 p.m.: Tax Assistance Pro­Toohig, Library Auditorium gram, Center for Social Concerns cof­7:30p.m.: Jazz Band Concert, Washing­feehouse ton Hall, for further informaiton contact 
4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Heavy Eric Kuehner 239-6201 Fermions: Coherence Versus Single-Ion 7:00 p.m., 9:30 p.m., 12:00 a.m.: Effects," by Professor Jack Crow, Temple Movie, "Green Berets", $1, Engineering University, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall Auditorium 
4:30p.m.: College of Scier.ceLecture in 8:00p.m.: Tom Deluca, hypnotist, com­Biological Science, "Community Ecol­edian, magician, Washington Hall, $2, ogy: Field Experiments on Interaction tickets on sale in Cellar of LaFortune Strength and Hierarchical Competition," by Professor Robert Paine, 283 Galvin 
Dinner Menus 

Life Science Center 
4:45 -6:45 p.m.: University Food Ser­Notre Dame vices presents "Around the World in 80 Days," a taste of food from around the 
Around The World in 80 Days
world, North and South Dining Halls 
Sicilian Stuffed Pizza

6:00 p.m.: General Meeting, ND Man­
Polynesian Chicken Kebobs

agement Club, 124 Hayes-Healy 
Fish and Chips 

7:00 p.m.: Center for Social Concerns 
Indian Fried Rice 

presents Bishop Thomas Gumbleton speaking on personal reflections on the University of Notre Dame Lenten theme, Saint Mary's Sacred Heart Church 7:00p.m.: Presentation, "Where are You 
Veal Scallopini 

in Your Job Search?" a workshop to help 
Beef Tacos 

students identify strategies to use in en­
Stromboli

hancing their job search; Jeff Rice, Assis-
Deli Bar 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
YEP. SFWAL 
FEAT{)R[ IN TJIE OBSERVER TONOR/(01-1.50 
FA/? YOUR.£ 
0 FOI? 2.3. 

glass of water 12 days ago." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Having skill 5 Liner 9 Iranian title 
13 Reclined 14 Pilfered 15 Theatrical 
auntie 16 Peak 17 Shire of films 18 Genus of 
whistling 
swans 19 Hash stingers 22 Opening 23 Moppet 24 Objurgate 27 By way of 
abbreviation 32 Winged 33 Cap 34 New Deal org. 35 Fourth 
dimension 36 Fr. river 37 European 38 Exclamation 39 Alan Ladd 

movie 40 Permitted 41 Deplete one's 8 "Partridge 
funds ina-" 43 Puissant 9 Unruffled 44 Part of EAP 10 Nimbus 45 Reprobates 11 In a frenzy 46 Brief tale 12 Possessive 54 Indian 14 Pelt 55 Vietnam city 20 Head: Fr. 56 Cantor and 21 Outlay 
Lupino 24 Ulan­57 Help 25 Root or Yale 58 NY city 26 Novarro of 59 Mention as the silents 
authority 27 Maneuver 60 Through 28 Fr. depart­61 Wine ment 62 Tree node 29 Potherb 
30 Illuminated 
DOWN again 1 Ah, mel 31 Cheap 2 Part of JSB 33 Support 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

3 VIP vehicle 36 Bootery 43 Morning 49 Nimbus 4 Sap 37 Military prayer 50 Lulu 5 Onset force 45 Slav 51 Norse god 6 Keep fast 39 Discharged 46 Fish 52 Pro­7 Nastase of 40 Covers 47 Vagrant 53 River to the 
tennis 42 Goblin 48 Candid North Sea 

The Peter Thorpe Band 
performs: 

History of the Blues 101 Friday 4-6 Fieldhouse Mall Rain? Huddle 
spo11sored by SAB 

::SABp-.."' : 
• • "Green Berets" • :: The Ultimate War Movie : ::Today and Thursday 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 : • + •• $1 Engineering Aud. •t 
Absolutely no load or drink allowed . 
-
t 
SRorts 
Bookstore Basketball heats up for week two 
By PETE SKIKO Erin Bartholomy led the girls Sports Writer with an 8-of-11 shooting perfor­mance. The 5-2 junior also 
As the first week of the delighted the sizable crowd Bookstore Basketball tourna­with a twisting two-fisted jam ment came to a close yester­midway through the second day, the intensity on the court half. has matched the organization In the final game involving off it. an all-girl squad, 5 Really Cool 
Tournament Commissioner Guys squeaked by 5 Girls Who Steve Wenc reports that the Have (literally, folks) Never first 311 games have gone off Touched a Basketball, 21-16. virtually without a hitch. The Guys, featuring varsity 



Bookstore Basketball 
XVI 
"All we've had are a couple of eligibility violations," said Wenc, in his second year at the helm of the largest organized basketball tournament in the world. "Outside of that, the weather was a little shaky for a while there, but everyone seems happy and everything is right on schedule." 
Last week's weather mix of rain, snow and heavy winds has mellowed to more appealing weather for the shooters of the tournament. 
Yesterday's action featured some good play from top­ranked teams, some inspired play from unknown teams, and some all-girl teams who, well, varied somewhat in their style of play. 
Hoosier Lawyers, one of the three all-girl teams to take the court yesterday, ran up against the highly-ranked Ed Smer­ciak; the Last Hurrah at Stepan Courts, and bowed out 21-6 in one of those games which was closer than the score indicated. Smerciak shot 21-of­36 in the contest. 
In one of the games that was definitely not as close as the score indicated, the all-girl Team No. 660, after sprinting out (?) to an 11-4 halftime lead over Dead Girls Don't Say No (easily this reporter's favorite uncensored Bookstore name), were edged 21-19. Team No. 660 captain Debbie Delahanty ex­plained the unexpected close­ness of the contest. 
"It must have been the pre­game happy hour with our op­ponents," said Delahanty. 
football players Terry Andrysiak, Andy Heck, and Steve Belles, were lulled to sleep by the girls' slow pace early on, and actually trailed at the half, 11-10. Then, amidst screams of "Ooooh, I broke a nail" and "Tickle 'em, girls", the second half erupted into a dunkfest for the guys, as boos from the crowd rained down on them with every slam. Andrysiak led all scorers with eight points. 
In other games yesterday, Willie and the Wanna Bees looked extremely impressive in stinging Team No. 234 by a score of 21-2. The winners shot 21-of-33 for the game, and un­likely Wanna Bee hero Mike Palm went 5-of-6 with eight boards in the drubbing. The ut­terly humble Palm gave all the credit to his teammates. 
"Heck, I just follow up be­hind the guards and get gar­bage baskets," said Palm. 
Bob Van Kirk also went 7-of­11 from the field in a game which sets up an interesting confrontation with Ed Smer­ciak; The Last Hurrah, to take place Friday at 4:45 on Stepan 5. 
Also, Phi Slamma Jamma, behind Chris Perozek's nine points, clipped We Play Nerf Hoops, 21-14. Irish hoopster Scott Hi.cks went 4-for-17 in the contest. Tom Weedman had eight points as Self-Appointed Fire Marshalls doused Chicks and Booze, 21-16; Mark Wil­liams, of Notre Dame's "Beer-
see BOOKSTORE, page 9 

Wednesday April 8, 1987-page 12 
The Observer I Joann Whit field 

Paul Kolecki of the Mythical Gods of Love and Bookstore Basketball action. Pete Skiko high­Destruction puts up a shot in yesterday's lights Tuesday's games in his story at left. 
Irish baseball drops doubleheader 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Irish have lost extra-inning games, have fallen short in
Sports Writer 

comeback attempts, and have 
Considering the type of for­been blown out. Yesterday tune the Notre Dame baseball looked like it would be differ­team run into at Jake Kline ent, as the Irish held the lead Field recently, the Irish must in the late innings of both be welcoming their away game games. today against the University of In the first game, freshman Illinois-Chicago at 5 p.m. CST. Dan Peltier blasted his third 
The Irish were swept by Mic­home run of the season in the higan State, 13-10 and 10-8, in a first inning, as Notre Dame doubleheader at home yester­jumped out to a 2-0 lead. That day. The sweep dropped Notre was only the first drop in the Dame's record to 7-16. The bucket in a slugfest that saw Irish have lost eight straight the lead constantly alternating. games, all at Jake Kline Field, The Irish took a 7-5 lead with where the Irish are still winless two runs in the fourth inning, this year. and appeared to take control 
During the team's slump, the with two more runs in the fifth for a 9-5 lead. 
Then came the · sixth inning. Thirteen higan State players stepped the plate, and the scored eight runs ning against four Notre Dame pitchers. left fielder Pete Pro•vhvc::.. 
grand slam gave State a 12-9 lead, and the tans added another run to it 13-9 after six Przybysz ended the game four hits in four at-bats, runs batted in, and three scored. 
Notre Dame rallied 
see IRISH, page 9 

Baseball's Opening Day loses tradition in Toronto 
Sugar Ray Leonard's shock for the world Mon­day night was a piece of what America is all about. Monday's baseball opener was a slap in America's face. 
Leonard defied most of the experts, much of the world and logic in his unlikely victory over Mar­velous Marvin Hagler. Leonard's story of former glory, the detached retina, the unsuccessful com­eback and now the incredible comeback II has been documented for the past two weeks. 
It's a story that's hard not to like. Leonard has a flair about him, a pleasing presence and seems to have a warm personality. His struggle to beat Hagler is storybook material. 
It's Horatio Alger, the 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team, the Villanova Wildcats, the little engine that could, North Carolina State and all those other favorites. 
It warms the hearts of millions for the champ of yesterday to take on the big, menacing, evil kingpin of today. And win. 
It makes everyone feel good inside, and some­how, we all think that this ability for the upset is 
distinctly American. We are proud of it, whether that's true or not. But earlier in the day, America took a good jab to the jaw, and a tradition is still reeling from it. 
Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 
-Good ole baseball got underway Monday in Toronto. That's right, in Toronto. The traditional American game, the national pastime, went north of the border to start the season. The question is why? 
Cincinnati has traditionally held the distinction of hosting the first game because of seniority. Last season, Detroit got the jump by thirty minutes. That was a misdemeanor. This year, Toronto got the jump. That's a felony. Or travesty. Or sin. Take your pick. 
It's not that Canada is a bad country. It's harm­less enough, I guess, and I hear there's good fis­hing up there. But baseball's Opening Day, Canada's way out of line on that one. Why does it need to have the first game? Are the people of Canada trying to get our attention? They have the National Hockey League playoffs to worry about. 
Americans take their baseball seriously. Opening Day is a major event. Any number of teams, and their accompanying city will claim that they have the greatest fans in the world. Cubs fans say they come to see their team win or lose, Indians fans say they support better than anyone else if given any kind of reason to (finishing above .500 is sufficient) and Dodgers fans come to the stadium in numbers surpassing three million every year. 
Toronto Blue Jays fans, or Montreal Expos fans for that matter, can never be accused of being the league's best. Remember the empty seats in Ex­hibition Stadium when Toronto made the League 
see TORONTO, page 10 

