All that Jazz -Campus Scene 

VOL. XXI, NO. 124 FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1987 
the independent student newspaper sen·ing ~otre Dame and Saint \tar) 's 
Soviets display devices, accuse U.S. of spying 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The Soviet Union put on display Thursday microphones and other gadgets it said were dug from the walls and floors of its U.S. missions and claimed the devices prove that Soviets are victims of American spies. 
The devices, some crammed with 
miniature electronics and no bigger 
than a pencil, are "material evidence 
of who is really intruding into the sov­
ereign territory of others," Foreign 
Ministry spokesman Boris Pyadyshev 
said at a news briefing. 
The briefing and the display of ob­
jects allegedly planted at Soviet mis­
sions and residences in Washington, 
San Francisco and New York was a 
clear Kremlin response to reports that 
the KGB laced the U.S. Embassy in Moscow with bugging devices and com­promised its security. 
The Soviet counterattack came as American officials were trying to gauge a sex-and-spy scandal that allegly in­volved U.S. marine guards who became sexually involved with Soviet women and were enticed into allowing KGB agents inside the American Embassy. 
It was not possible for journalists to verify that the transmitters, receivers and other electronic devices had actu­ally been planted on Soviet property by 
U.S. agents. 
The Soviet Union took extraordinary measures to protect its new Washington embassy after the United States tried in 1979 to bug apartment buildings in­side the compound, The Washington Post reported Thursday. 
see SPYING, page 4 

'Lazer Tag' game turns fatal as teenager shot by deputy 
Associated Press 
RANCHO CUCAMONGA, Calif. -An anguished deputy sheriff was taken off duty and counseled Thursday after fa­tally shooting a teen-ager who was using a toy laser gun in mock combat with friends in a dark schoolyard. 
The unidentified six-year veteran of the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department had been called to Central Elementary School at 10 p.m. Tuesday after a passer-by walking a dog re­ported armed prowlers, sheriff's spokesman Jim Bryant said Thursday. 
Leonard Joseph Falcon, 19, who had been playing Lazer Tag with three friends, was shot to death after he fired flashes of light from the toy gun at deputies, Bryant said. He died of two 12-gauge shotgun wounds, coroner's in­vestigators said. 
"This kid was in all likelihood think­ing he was in the game and that this officer coming around the corner was one of his opponents," Bryant said. 
He said Falcon's eyesight may have been hampered by the dark. 
"I agonize for that family," said Bryant, "but I also agonize for the dep­uty involved because I know he's a com­passionate human being, a good citi­zen." 
He said witnesses reported seeing the deputy sitting on a curb weeping after the shooting. 
The dead youth was also "a good, solid citizen," a Chaffey Community College student who was studying electronics and worked at a fast-food restaurant, Bryant said. 
One participant in the game, Ronald Gross, 20, said Falcon, "one of my best 
seeSHOOTING oate4 

Kevin Hurley continues progress, celebrates 20th birthday at home 
By BETH CORNWELL Staff Reporter 
Kevin Hurley, the Notre Dame fresh­man who was injured in a hit-and-run accident crossing U.S. 31-33 on Septem­ber 7, 1985, celebrated his twentieth birthday on April 8 at his home in Mas­sachusetts. 
"I got a call from Ken, my roommate, and I got a call from Emil this morning. It made me feel good. I also got at-shirt and a sweatshirt from the Sophomore Class Advisory Council. My mom showed me that I got about ten cards. That made me feel great," Hurley said. 
I'm really glad you people care. I'm not joking when I say that even from 1500 miles away I still feel -I don't know, it just makes me feel great," Hurley said. 
Hurley continues to improve physi­cally, and is working with an artificial limb. His lower left leg was amputated because of injuries suffered in the ac­cident. 
"I'm using it (the prosthesis) more. It gets kind of sore, wearing a leg where you haven't had one for a year and a half. Also the skin on my stump gets kind of sore -but it's getting better as I work more and more," said Hurley. 
The procedure for learning to walk using a prosthesis involves a progres­sion from a walker to crutches to canes to a cane. 
"I'm still on crutches -really not anywhere near canes but I'm con­stantly working and I'm improving," Hurley said. 
The letter writing campaign spon­sored by the sophomore advisory coun­cil is trying to increase the number of letters Hurley receives from Notre Dame, according to Student Body Pres­ident Pat Cooke. 
"We want to increase the amount of mail he's been getting of late because there's a chance he may come out some time this spring. It's important for Kevin to know that even though he's not physically here he's still a real member of the class of '89," Cooke said. 


For Sail 
Two sailing enthusiasts take to the lake to enjoy the recent warm weather. Al­though temperatures are expected to 

'Women at Prayer' is focus of lecture at Saint Mary's 
By COURTNEY JAMIESON Staff Reporter 
Reflections on the spiritual journeys of poet Anne Sexton, painter Meinrad Craighead and writer Anne Dilard and the different perspectives of God each of these women convey through their respective art forms, was the subject of a lecture given by Sister Mary Collins 
at  Saint  Mary's  O'Laughlin  
Auditorium.  
Collin's lecture,  titled  "Women  at  

Prayer, " was the third annual Madeleva lecture in spirituality given Thursday night. 
Collins said of these women,"I have chosen women who are unashamed God-seekers and who have not been afraid to trust and give imaginative ex­pression to their experiences of God in this .late twentieth-centuryWestern cul­ture." 
"Last year's lecturer, Sandra Schneiders, talked about the need for healing the church's imagination which has been narrowed by male images of God. So what I wanted to do was look at some women who were giving ex­pression to feminine images of God," said Collins. 
Collins said of Saint Mary's, "I think it has made a contribution for several generations in the education of Catholic women. 
"I think what Saint Mary's is doing today is inviting students and alumnae to deepen their faith and prepare for new kinds of leadership among Cath­olic women," she added. 
Collins ended her speech by calling for men and women to share mutually respectful words about God when gat­hering for prayer. 
"For in the beginning, before we lost our way, we were created male and female as God's images," she said. 
Collins is currently at the Benedictine Priory in Atchison, Kansas where she has been doing research and lecturing, and working in liturgical studies and women's spirituality. Next fall she will be returning to Catholic University where she was fr6m 1978 to 1984. 

The Observer Friday, April 10, 1987 -page 2 

In Brief 
Father Robert Griffin, University chaplain and a 1949 graduate, will be presented the William D. Reynolds Award at half-time of the Blue-Gold game on April 25. Father Griffin has served as University chaplain since 1974. Griffin, named a Senior Class Fellow in 1973, is the author of two books of essays and also writes a newspaper column. The Reynolds Award is given annually to a Notre Dame graduate who works with youth for the betterment of the quality of life. Father Griffin is also the author of The Observer's "Letters to a Lonely God" column.-The Observer 

Of Interest 
A Psychedelic Beaux Arts Ball will be held tonight from 9 p.m. -2 a.m. in the Architecture Building. The event features Blind River and DJ's Scot Flora and Kevin Fiorito. The event is sponsored by the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society of Architects. -The Ob­server 
Senior portraits for the yearbook are being taken today and tomorrow in the Chicago Room on the third floor of LaFortune. Have your picture taken now while your tan is still fresh. -The Observer 
A lakeside cookout held in conjunction with the Fisher Hall Regatta, will take place tomorrow from 11 
a.m. to 2 p.m. on the shores of Saint Mary's Lake. The dining halls will be closed at this time, and ID's will be required. Come out and support your dorm's entry in the regatta. -The Observer 
Coleman McCarthy will deliver a lecture titled "Working for Social Justice" today at 4:30p.m. in Carroll Hall at St. Mary's. McCarthy is a syndicated columnist for the Washington Post and professor of Peace Studies at the University of Maryland and James Madison Uni­versity. -The Observer 
Reagan, Letterman, and Joe Montana have all been invited to the Mr. Stanford Contest tomorrow night in the Library Auditorium. This "beauty" coptest will fea­ture some of Stanford's finest "studs." Doors open at 7 
p.m. -The Observer 

Christ in the Passover: faculty, staff and students are invited to a unique and educational experience at the CBF campus house, 19525 Pendle, at 6:30p.m. tonight. A passover dinner will be conducted by Tom and Deb Lowen­har, who will explain how Christ is represented in this Old Testament-based tradition. Space is limited, so call 277­8471 for reservations. There is no admission charge. The dinner is sponsored by Campus Bible Fellowship. -The Observer 

Weather 
So, you thought it would last forever? 
Don't you know this is South Bend? Even though it will be mostly sunny this mor­ning, there will be increasing clouds in the afternoon. Mild, with highs in the up­per 60s. Mostly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of showers tonight, mainly after midnight. Low 40 to 45. A 60 percent chance of rain Saturday. Cooler with the 


high in the middle 50s. -Associated Press 
-Ihe_Qbse~~or__ 
------&.~Y=-'--.. ·---
Deaign Editor ...................... Rob Luxem A11utant Accent Editor ..... Dane Galden TJipeaetten .......... ...... .. .... Shawn Sexton Accent Copy Editor......... Cindy Petrites .. ............. ...... .. .... ...... .... .. . Chris Reardon Accent Layout.. .............. Ann Biddlecom News Editor ....................... Regis Coccia ........................................ Heather Hypes COfl1J Editor ........ .. .. ...... .. .. .. Rob Hennig Typuts............................... Esther Ivory Sport• Copy Editor .......... Marty Strasen ND Day Editor ..................... Marla Doti Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Rarer Viewpoint Layout.. ......... Matt Zyniewicz Photographer ................. Joann Whitfield 
Color for today's paper provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tile Obaner (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obaner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing Tile Obaner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Obtener is a member of Tile Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Toastmasters: a club that gives everyone a 'fighting chance' 
A few months ago I unexpectedly found myself with some free time on my hands. Ob­viously, using it to do more schoolwork was not the best thing to do, but I did not want to end up as an excise statistic at the County Prose­cutor's Office. 
So, I joined Toastmasters. 
Toastmasters is not a club for those who al­ways manage to set the toaster ablaze in the dining hall; Toastmasters is not a club for those who are going to be newly married and want to impress a spouse with breakfast-making prowess. No, Toastmasters is not the place to learn how to make corny "toasts" at formal dinners. (Now all pf the familiar "Toastmaster jokes" are aside.) 
Toastmasters, as I see it, is a way of life. A club fostering the development of public speak­ing, communication skills and confidence, Toastmasters offers anyone who is interested a place to improve himself and make some good friends. 
Toastmasters is not confined to the Notre Dame campus and the three clubs at Saint Mary's by any means; it is an international organization with over 130,000 members. The 

word Toastmaster itself means "one who intro­

duces speakers at a banquet," and it is on this "ah," or "you know," it will be counted, and 
type of impromptu speaking that the club you will be charged a penny. 
focuses. And what does all of this amount to? According to several surveys, public speak­Confidence. 
ing is the greatest fear of the human race. If you are nervous about speaking in public,. Toastmasters knows this. That is exactly why frequently speaking aloud in front of a friendly participation by as many people as possible is audience will teach you that you are not the encouraged at every meeting. Even if you are bungler you thought you were. If you are used "just there to watch," you may be requested to giving good speeches or simply enjoy being to give an impromptu speech. in the spotlight for a few minutes each week, the club offers you a chance to hone your skills 
But along with this request to participate and gain greater belief in the abilities of your­comes encouragement and support. Regardless self and others. of who you are or how good your speech was, Most of all, the club offers you a chance to 
you'll get applause from everyone in the room meet new people and to share their develop­after you finish talking. You may have a speech ment. It makes me feel just as good to clap for impediment; English may not be your native someone who may have been really nervous language; you may stutter or be nervous; but during her speech as it does to hear applause you will always be listened to and praised for after I give a speech. I think the psychologists your effort. refer to the whole idea as positive reenforce­
Many may pass up joining Toastmasters be­ment, but I prefer to call it a good time. cause they never plan to give a public speech In late January of this year, I went to my first in their life. But how many times have we seen Toastmasters meeting as someone a little 
those same people have their knuckles turn dejected and uncharacteristically low on self­white when they are called on to speak in a confidence. But those guys at Toastmasters class or discussion group? How many of those made me feel good about myself, reminding 
people will be faced with giving a presentation me that everyone, no matter how they may feel in front of a room full of people at some time about themselves, has something positive to of­in their career? 
fer. Toastmasters not only helps you give formal For those of you who are "fellow 
speeches; it also helps you to communicate Toastmasters," I thank you for some great ex­more effectively. Every speech you give at a periences and more to come. For those of you meeting will be criticized, both positively and who are thinking about joining, do it; it may negatively. Every time you grunt out an "urn," just change your life. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
~ Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
w THIS WEEKAT"THE SNITE 
Individual admission: $1.50 
Home or the Brave (1986) Friday, April10 at 7:30 & 9:30pm, Snite Performance artist Laurie Anderson's first feature film arises out of what she calls the long and distinquished tradition of American humor -Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck and Porky Pig. Others describe her aa an electronic wizard, composer and stand-up comic whose performance art fuses comedy with a musical message that interweaves the personal and the political, the autobiographical and the universal to create evocative portraits of American life in the 80's . 
Stella Dallas (1937) Monday, April 13 at 7 pm, Snite Bring your handkerchiefs for the finest of the heartbreakers. Barbara Stanwyck marries above her social class and forfeits her own happiness for her daughter. The final scene of sell-sacrifice has no rival. 
Johnny Guitar (1954) Monday, Apri\13 at 9 pm, Snite Bizarre camera angles, shocking color, the allegory of lynchmob mentality of the SO's and the final shoot-out between Joan Crawford and Mercedes McCambridge are not to be missed in this sex-role reversal Western in which women wear the guns. 
Repo Man (1984) Tuesday, April14 at 7:30pm, Snite An explosive, outrageous, surreal satire of the seedy underworld of auto repossession. With Harry Dean Stanton, Emilio Estevez and Tracey Walter. 
·All ftlms are screened in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 
-~ ~--~-------------~~ 
----------~--------------------~---------------------­
The Observe Friday, April 10, 1987 -page 3 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~ 
Indiana votes to raise state speed limit to 65

Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -The In­diana House voted Thursday to raise the speed limit on most interstate highways to 65 mph. 
Lawmakers approved Senate Bill 180 on an 83-15 vote, sen­ding the measure back to the Senate and probably to a House-Senate conference com­mittee, according to Rep. Thomas Coleman, R-New Castle, the House sponsor. 
The measure would apply to about 75 percent of the inter­state mileage in Indiana, or ap­proximately 852 miles in rural areas. Another 267 miles defined by the federal govern­ment as urban interstate would retain the current 55 mph speed limit. 
Other federal and state high­ways would also keep the 55 mph limit, established during the energy crises of the 1970s.Shaded Sightseers "I think there are two things people in Indiana are really
Morrissey juniors Dave Fischer, left, and John concerned about -number one, Beckham enjoy thf' weather and the action at the lottery, and number two,the Lyons Courts Thursday. Round two of 

the 65 mile an hour speed 
limit," said Coleman. 
"I think if you drive the in­
terstate, you know that the 
speed limit is about 65 miles 
per hour right now," said Cole­
man. 
Reps. Ralph Underwood, D­
Connersville, and Frank New­
kirk, D-Salem, both said they 
feared higher speeds would 
lead to more traffic fatalities. 
Newkirk also said higher insur­
ance rates could result if 
greater speed produced more 
accidents. 
Coleman replied that only 63 
fatalities were recorded on In­
diana interstates in 1986, and 
only 15 were speed-related. 
Those categorized as speed­
related included accidents 
where a driver was going too 
fast for prevailing road condi­
tions but not fast enough to 
exceed the speed limit, Cole­
man said. 
Because so many people ig­
nore the 55 mph limit, Coleman 
said he expects little or no real 
increase in speed due to the 
higher speed limit. 
Rep. Edward Goble, D­
Batesville, said cars and roads 
are safer today than they were 
when the speed limit was last 
65 mph. He also noted that the 
state's new seat-belt law, 
which goes into effect July 1, 
should help hold down the num­
ber of fatalities. 
"When we passed this (the 55 mph limit), we were coerced into doing this," said Goble, re­ferring to federal threats to cut off highway funding to states that didn't comply with the lower limit. 
The rationale that lower 
speeds would improve gasoline 
consumption "is simply no 
longer a valid reason" for the 
55 mph limit, he said. "Now 
cars get twice the mileage they 
did then." 

Saint Mary's 'little sisters' a tradition 
By MARY HEILMANN Senior Staff Reporter 
Dormitories at Saint Mary's may be a little bit crowded this weekend, but it is unlikely that anyone will be complaining, as the College will be hosting its annual Little Sisters' Weekend. 
"It's a traditional event on 
campus," said Mary Ellen 
Smith, director of Student Ac­
tivities at the College. "We did 
an advance registration and 
about 75 of our students regis­
tered approximately 100 little 
sisters.'' 
Junior Moira Michiels, stu­
dent chairwoman of the event, 
indicated that the interest was 
higher than anticipated, saying 
that originally the event "was 
budgeted for only about 25 stu­
dents to respond." 
"I hope everyone enjoys 
what's planned, and that they 
have a fun weekend with their 
sisters," Michiels said. 
Activities begin Friday night 
with an ice cream party and 
banana split bar in Regina 
Hall. Saturday's events feature 
a fashion show and special 
lunch at SAGA in the afternoon, 
followed in the evening by a 
showing of the movie "Grease" 
and a pizza party in the Club­
house. The weekend concludes 
Sunday with a Mass in Regina. 

··-~~------­
----------------~·-~-·~-··-----------~ 
The Observer Friday, April10, 1987 -page 4 


Security Beat 
Tuesday 

1:26 p.m. -An employee reported that her vehicle had been vandalized while it was parked in St. Michael's parking lot. Several dents were put in the hood and driver's door by what appears to be a ball peen hammer. Estimated damage is $300. 
2 p.m. -An off-campus student re­ported that a gray sports bag had been taken from a vehicle while it was was parked in the Stepan Center lot. Inside the bag was the victim's wallet, a Sears 35-millimeter camera and some film. The wallet was found and turned over to Security by an unknown complainant. Value of the other items is not known. 
3:20p.m.-A Dillon Hall resident re­ported that a $25 textbook was taken from the lobby of the Bookstore. 
4:50p.m. -A Fisher resident that a brown All Pro, one speed bike was taken from the Fisher bike rack. The bike was not secured and was valued at $50. 
5:50p.m. -Nearly $1,000 in clothing was taken from a dryer in the LaFor­tune laundromat. The victims, off­campus students, left the laundry area for approximately one hour, during which the clothing was taken. 
Thursday 
2:15a.m.-An off-campus student re­ported that her wallet had been removed from her jacket while she was at the Alumni Senior Club. The victim had left the jacket on a table. Value of the wallet and contents is $20. 
9:19a.m. -A Fisher Hall student re­ported that his class ring was taken from the top of his desk located in his room. The room was not secured while the victim was out. Value of the ring is estimated at $390. The ring was returned to the student by a friend that was playing a practical joke. 
AP Photo 
David

Laying on hands 

Pope John Paul II offers an unidentified woman and infirm people in the Cordoba Cathedral as Lennert... a blessing. The pope met with some 200 sick part of his visit to Argentina. 

Spying 
continuedfrom page 1 
John Carl Warnecke, who helped design the $65 million complex, told the newspaper the discovery of listening devices caused the Soviets to dismantle parts of the new chancery building and X-ray "each inch of steel the night before it was put up.'' They also 

Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
Lennert. •." See him in action 

..~OUJe/(g ~ott aQQ occogiong.H at the Bond Bash this 
Saturday AT THE

Comein and Browse 
DRAIN

327 Lincolnway .23)~3354 

in Moscow. Officials have 
claimed the United States is 
trying to poison the atmo­
sphere for the visit of Secretary 
of State George Shultz next 
week and harm chances for an 
arms control agreement. 
"Not a single fact has been 
produced," Pyadyshev com­
mented, contrasting the U.S. charges with the display shown . by the Soviets at the news con­
ference. 


Shooting 
continuedfrom page 1 
friends," had bought the Lazer Tag set only last weekend. 
Lazer Tag is manufactured by Worlds of Wonder in Fremont, Calif. Company spokeswoman Ellen Van Bus­kirk said the company was declining immediate comment. 
The deputy was placed on paid leave for at least five days and automatically given coun­seling by the department's con­tract psychologist. 
The man who summoned deputies was a 30-year-old neighbor, who "thought he was doing a good citizen's deed, and it ended in a tragedy," Bryant said. 
In a bitter twist, the slain youth's father, Joseph Falcon, recalled that he had once refused to replace a broken toy gun for Leonard's 12-year-old brother because of a shooting four years ago in Orange County in which a Stanton policeman killed a 5-year-old boy who brandished a toy weapon in a darkened apart­ment. 

Formerly Locks'Liquor World 2128 South Bend Ave.-277-3611 Across &o• YeUow Sab•arine 
Milwaukee's Best 
Buschqts 89teachor

$4.99acase 
Lite $7.99 a case 
Schlitz Malt 40oz-99t 
Board's Gin $8.99 1.751 
Store Hours: 
$9.99acase 
WE HAVE KEGS 
Lowenbrau $9.99 a case or $2.69 a 6-pack 


Popov Vodka $8.99175ml 

Peachtree Schnapps $5.995th 
Our in otto is to wheel and deal. 
9aaa-10p• Moo-Thurs. l~ome r:tnd talk to us about parties, 9...-ll:OOp• Fri. & Sat. SYR's, etc. Also check our keg prices. 
Wann or Cold Beer Available 

... , ~ .-_ :-,; 
., • ··.I 

The Observer Friday, April 10, 1987 -page 5 

Irish ambassador, others to attend conference at ND 

Special to The Observer 
The Irish Ambassador to the United States, Padraic MacK­ernan, will be among those at­tending a conference entitled "Ireland and the United States: The Transatlantic Con­nection, 1800-1980" AprillO-11 at the University of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education. 
The conference will bring to­gether several Irish and Amer­ican historians, economists and political scientists to dis­cuss relations between the two countries and cultures over the last two centuries. It will begin at 7:30 p.m. Friday (April 10) with a welcoming address by Ambassador MacKernan, after which Gearoid Tuathaigh of University College in Galway will lecture on "Faith of their Fathers: The Export of Irish Religious Culture in the 

Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame 
1404 North Ivy Road South Bend, Indiana 466:57 
"Your Home Away From Home" 
For reservations call (219) 277-9662 


GRADUATE NURSES 
Your education will not end with graduation. As a graduate. nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week-long, fully-paid orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orJentation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical canter can provide. 
Graduates apply now for positions available in 1987. Slatting salary $23,681. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed acute' care Meyo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital Personnel Services Nursing Recruitment Section 201 West Center Street Rochester, MN 55902 Call Collect: (507) 288-7091 
Nineteenth Century." 
On Saturday (April 11) at 9 a.m., David Doyle of Univer­sity College, Dublin, will give a lecture entitled "The Trans­lating of Irish Family Values 1820-1910." At 10:45 a.m., Kerby Miller of the University of Missouri will lecture on "Paddy's Paradox: Emigra­tion and America in Irish Im­agination and Rhetoric." At 2 p.m., Mary Daly of University College in Dublin will give a lecture titled "The Economic Impact.of the United States on Ireland 1900-1980." At 3:45 p.m., John Murphy of Univer­sity College in Cork will lecture on "Independent Ireland and the United States: Divergent Trends." At 8:15p.m., J.J. Lee of University College in Cork and Lawrence McCaffrey of Loyola University in Chicago will lead the concluding session of the conference. 
sit, jump, 


roll over 


Doll-ly-llama 
Faye Peiers and her grandfather, Bob Peters, rest next to a llama after watching the animals at a downtown Louisville store named Bunny's 


Arms proposal said to be dead issue 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan's proposal at the Iceland summit to scrap all 
U.S. and Soviet ballistic mis­siles over 10 years is a dead issue, Nuclear Arms Control Director Kenneth Adelman said Thursday. 
"The Soviets have rejected it out of hand," Adelman said. 
He told reporters the U.S. proposal is still on the negotiat­ing table in Geneva. But, he added, "I don't think it's going to come on the radar screen on arms control again, if you ask me." 
Reagan proposed a two-stage plan to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in Reykjavik, 
ND AVE APTS Now Renting for Fall 


Completely Furnished, Balconies, 
Off Street Parking, Laundry, On Site Management & Maintenance. All Deluxe Features. Ask about our Special Summer Rates 
Office at 820 NO AVE. 234-6647 Protected b Pinkerton Sec ri 


Iceland. In the first five years, the two sides would cut by about one-half their long-range bombers, missiles and sub­marines. In the next five years, all ballistic missiles would be phased out. 
U.S. negotiators formally presented the proposal to So­viet negotiators later at Geneva. But, Adelman said, "they didn't give us the time of day." 
The director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency said the Soviets refused the offer because ''they figure that the backbone of their military and their arsenal has been land-based ballistic missiles." 
Some U.S. allies in Western 
Europe also had reservations 
about Reagan's proposal. Sec­
retary of State George Shultz 
responded to those concerns by 
saying a small force of U.S. bal­
listic missiles might be 
retained. 
Shultz will discuss arms con­
trol issues next Monday 
through Wednesday in Moscow 
with Soviet Foreign Minister 
Eduard Shevardnadze. He also 
may meet with Gorbachev. 
They would discuss plans for a 
third summit meeting in Wash­
ington. 
Adelman said Gorbachev had not responded to Reagan's invitation but said he expected the Soviet leader to be here during the summer or early fall. 
On another nuclear issue, Adelman said the United States would offer the Soviets a timetable on "Star Wars" ex­periments in exchange for in­formation on their anti-missile research program. 
He said he did not expect the offer to change the fundamen­tal differences between the two sides on space-based defenses. But, he said, "there are some elements that would interest them." 
The disagreement over Reagan's program to find a way to shoot down missiles in space has slowed negotiations over curbing U.S. and Soviet nuclear weapons. 
Adelman said Shultz would put the emphasis on limiting strategic nuclear weapons. 








"ie~~_O_i_n__t_______________Frida-y,A~prill-0,19~87-p~age6 
Sex must involve responsible decision making 
Editors Note: The following is the fourth in a series of columns from the University Counseling Center. 
Writing about sexual issues is diffi­cult even for a 35 year old woman who lived through the "sexual revolution." Part of the difficulty comes from the setting in which I find myself, where sexual activity is not openly discussed because of religious sanctions against it. Not talking about sex, however, doesn't keep it from occuring, it just makes it more difficult to sort out one's feelings about it when it does happen. I believe barriers to communication about sex can make one more suscep­tible to myths and misinformation, and may ultimately result in less respon­sible sexual behavior. 
Katie Steele 
guest column 
Let me be clear about what I mean by "responsible" behavior. For me, the critical determinant of responsible be­havior is the exercise of choice based on one's own values. This may sound simple, but it requires that one know one's own values and not base decisions on peer pressure or media pressure or even on parental pressure. That's a tall order, especially when there's so little opportunity to explore feelings about such an emotionally charged issue. 
My sense from my counseling expe­rience here is that there is very little discussion about sex between the young women and men on this campus, except in awkward and guarded ways. In fact, it appears that there isn't a lot of open and honest discussion about it between members of the same sex. That may be partly responsible for the adver­sarial relationship that often exists be­tween the sexes here. The myths that develop about male sexuality or female sexuality are both a result and a cause of this lack of communication-it's one of those proverbial vicious cycles. 
I'd like to address some of the myths that interfere with responsible choices. , There are so many that it's hard to know what ot concentrate on, but I'll pick out the ones that seem to me to be the most destructive and prevalent. While I am drawing from my experi­ence as a woman and a counselor in this discussion, there is evidence in the psychological literature to support these issues. 


P.O.BoxQ 
Catholic education is beneficial for officers 
Dear Editor: 
Two things. 
The article in your issue of March 26, 1987, which asserted that drug tests are an infringment on rights of players, workers. What rights? Constitutional? Only the government can violate con­stitutional rights, not the NCAA or employers. 
The article "The Right Stuff", in the same issue was good, but it had to say that "some people wonder whether ROTC contradicts the values supported by a Catholic university." Who wonders? 
Doonesbury 
The military profession is as noble a profession as any other, and nobler than some. It exists to take care of the people. What kind of officer would they want in the military, anyway? And if the officers are not trained at Notre Dame, where should they be trained? Since when does Catholicism as a reli­gion condemn the military profession, or by religious tenent make it a sin to be a soldier? If there is any place where the ROTC could be woven into the mosaic of a school without any dissent at all it should be at the University of Notre Dame where the nobility of obedience marks both the Catholic and the soldier. What values supported by a Catholic university can the ROTC pos­sibly contradict if the values are true? 
John W. Snyder Creve Coeur, Missouri 
I think the myth that interferes most with communication is the one that all men have (or should have) stronger sexual needs and appetites than all wo­men. The fact of the matter is that both men and women have varying sexual needs; they vary from person to person and they vary across time for any one person. Misconceptions about this can make some men feel inadequate and some women feel guilty because they don't fit the stereotype in terms of their sexual needs. This can make it difficult to be honest with oneself or others about relationship issues. Learning to under­stand and be comfortable with one's own needs, as well as those of others, is an important step in making sexual chioces. 
Another prevalent and highly destructive myth is that "when a wo­man says no she really means yes." This is simply not true. What may hap­pen is that a woman will say no and mean it, but be confused about her right to refuse. So if she's pressured she may give in, but most men would not be proud of capitalizing on someone else's confusion and discomfort if they thought about it in those terms. (This experience is not uncommon among young women who have resisted sexual 
Garry Trudeau 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor .................... .............. Chris Murphy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor.. . . .. ........................ Dennis Corrigan of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor............. .. ........ Michael Naughton as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor. ... Marilyn Benchik Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .............. Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
pressure for years by saying they were virgins. They sometimes feel that they don't have a right to say no after they have said yes once, even if they don't feel the same way about the man they're with now.) A woman may even be confused about what she wants and send mixed signals because of it, espe­cially if alcohol is involved. That doesn't make her bad, or a tease, and it doesn't diminish her right to draw the line at any time. If a man perceives this as rejection it may add to his own confusion in this situation. Given the newness of the experience, the power of it, the mystique surrounding it, and the inability to talk openly about it, is it any wonder that people get confused? 
Sex can be a wonderful, uplifting ex­perience under the right condiitons, but it can be equally bad under the wrong conditions. It's important to keep in mind that sex is much more than a physical experience-it is psychological, emotional and spiritual in nature. We all have the right, and the responsibil­ity, to choose wisely when and how it influences our lives, and to respect the choices of others. Katie Steele is a 1974 graduate of the University of Tennessee and has been a counselor at the University Counsel­ing Center since 1985. 

Campus quote 
President Reagan: "He came to school here • was a football star, then be became a radio an­nouncer, then a movie star, then Governor of California, then President of the U.S. Who knows what's next? Maybe Pope -so we'll have 'Gipper I. m 
Father Guido Sarducci From "Breakfast in Heaven" Recorded at Washington Hall Jan. 19,1985 
Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager .............. ........... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller.... .. ............... Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ....... ............. Laura Stanton Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon 
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Page 2: 
'Big Noise' book review 
an arts and cultural magazine for ND/SMC 

.I 
"''' 
·~ 

> 
··:::·
illi 
'?'' 
-April 1 0, 1987 

"Something to do, something to see, something new to crack the igloo mood." 
-from "Big Noise" by Joseph Corey 
KIM YURATOVAC features writer 
T he most mag­
nificent, clean-cut, swlngln' affair I've ever attended," Is how band leader Stan Kenton described the 1960 Collegiate Jazz Festival. This weekend, that tradition continues at Notre Dame with the 1987 Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
The festival, celebrating Its :30th year, gathers the best of the collegiate jazz musicians and celebrity judges for two day's of concerts, competition, and jam sessions. Fifteen bands from all over the United States will compete Friday eve­ning, Saturday afternoon, and Saturday evening at Stepan Center. 
Chairman Kevin Cronin Is enthusiastic about the talent of bands. "The quality and Inten­sity of the band s amazes me. The collegiate talent Is superb," he remarked. After sending out 11 0 applications, Cronin and his seven member student staff as well as their academic ad­
vlser Father George Wlsklrchen, 
chose the fifteen competing 
bands. The staff chose the panel of six judges looking for respected musicians who could give helpful critiques, and who work well together, according to Cronin. One of the most ex­citing aspects of the festival, Cronin remembers, was en· couraglng jazz greats to be judges In the festival. "We even contacted Dizzy Gillespie. But he was booked. Not one poten­tial judge didn't want to do It," he said. "The $1,000 check and payed expenses are small fees for greats who can com­mand two or three jobs In a 
weekend." 
Nevertheless, the festival has 
continued to draw top-notch 
judges. Past festivals have In­
cluded such judges as Herbie 
Hancock, Roberta Flack and 
Wynton Marsalis. The Judges' 
Jam Is the highlight of Friday's 
events. "The Judges' Jams 
seem to get better every year, 
even when you thought they 
never could," admitted Cronin. 
This year's judges Include 
trumpeter Red Rodney, bassist 
Charlie Haden, drummer Roy 
Haynes, pianist Kenny Kirkland, , critic Dan Morgenstern, and 
versatile musician Frank Wess. 
Jospeh Kuhn Carey, chairman 
of the 1979 festival and author of the book, "Big Noise From Notre Dame," says at the Judges' Jam, "The excitement starts to build. It's the peak of the whole thing." 
Carey Is returning to the fes­tival this weekend to sign copies of his book and to take In the festival. "The festival has soul. It has a history behind It: an aura," he said. The beauty of the festival, he admits, Is that, "Anything goes. Every year there's something new." 
Carey observed that Notre Dame students have become more conservative since the tlrst days of the festival. "In the early days of the festival In the 
see JAZZ, page 4 
Scene-Page 2
The Observer -April 10, 1987 
Annual Beau Arts Ball •
IS 
People tend to pair up at the Beaux Arts Ball... 
CHRISTINE GREGORY features writer 
S 
o it's Friday night again. What are you going to do? Go out to the bars and wind up partying downtown with some of South Bend's finest? Attend another SYR with another blind date and wake up with another aggravating headache, wonder­Ing why everything looks up­side down even though you're right side up(you think)? Or are you going to study? That might be new and different, but how about doing something new, different and fun? 
How about dressing up in clothes that are reminiscent of the 60's? How about dancing to the music of Blind River? How about paying only $4 to go to a dance on campus? How about attending the Beaux Arts Ball? While most students outside of architecture probably hadn't heard of the ball before com­ing to school here, the Ball Is not unique to Notre Dame. 
Its origin comes from across the Atlantic, from L'Ecole de Beaux Arts in Paris. The faculty at the famous art school held balls which were traditionally very formal. Some creative stu­dents decided to hold their own parties that mimicked those of their professors. The Idea was to get decked out In 
ND makes 'Big Noise' 
J 
KIM YURATOVAC South Bend, Carey discovered "big, struggling attempt to add features writer that United had gone on strike. something to jazz" was ignored After rearranging all of the by its own place of birth. oseph Carey writes that the flights to accomodate the Perhaps Carey found the mo­Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz judges, a rainstorm paralyzed tivation to write this book in Festival arose out of the oldest O'Hare Airport where Judge that disheartening experience. Notre Dame complaint. "Nothing Dave Chertok was stranded "Big Noise" tells of the magic to do, nothing to see, nothing without a connecting flight to of a festival that has launched new anywhere to crack the South Bend. Carey's parents, careers, explored new areas igloo mood, nothing exciting to who lived in Chicago, picked and preserved jazz in America. spark the slow, snow pace of up Chertok and with "saintlike Through careful detailed nar­
life." speed" drove him to Notre rative, Carey brings the 1980's reader through three decades ofjazz. Through this journey, he shouts a "big noise" that tells the reader ofjazz and its role as a social catalyst. 
The appeal of the Collegiate Jazz Festival, writes Carey , 
Out of this cold 1959 winter "lies In a dedication to an aes­nothingness arose what would thetic integrity, an openness to become the oldest and largest diversity and change, and, si­



.••but sometimes things get a little out of hand. 
Collegiate Jazz Festival in America. Carey's book chronicles the history of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. But the book is more than a factual history. The chapters are separated into decades. And Carey carefully shows how the mood of each era was both reflected and influenced in its jazz. 
In "Big Noise," Carey vividly remembers the excitement of chairing the 1979 festival. He contacted Stevie Wonder, Dizzy Gillespie, and Benny Goodman, hoping to convince them to be jusdges at the Festival. He even tried to get Woody Allen as an emcee. Even though all of these attempts were unsuccess­ful, Carey was persistent in securing a top-notch panel of judges. However, Carey's prob­lems were far from over. After booking all of the judges on United Airlines nights into 
any kind of attire that wasn't 
formal and have a wild time. Over the years, the ball be­came a tradition among archi­
tecture and art students all 
over the world. 
The ball is not restricted merely to these students, however, and certainly It can be enjoyed by Darners In other majors. Although the proceeds from the dance do go to the Notre Dame chapter of the American Institute of Ar­chltects(AIAS), the ball's chair­man encourages all students to attend. 
Held once each semester, the ball is probably best known to students for its crazy themes. Over the years, these have ranged from focus on color; such as Black and White or Paint the Town Red; to politics, such as Revolutions; to the morbid, as with We Only Come Out at Night, last semes­ter's theme. Tonight, guests will sport attire that reflect the theme of Psychodelic. The original spelling is meant to encourage guests to be espe­cially creative. However, cos­tumes are not required. Decorations created by art and architecture students will also reflect the theme. 
The dance will be held from 9 until 2 tonight in the front lobby of the Architecture build· ing. The stairs and balconies provide interesting opportuni­ties for decorations as well as dancing. Interestingly enough, this dance is the only one on campus that is held in an aca­demic building. 
The price of tickets is $4 presale and $5 at the door. Dates are not required and, in fact, not even particularly preferred. The dances which yield the biggest attendance are the ones in which people come with large groups and bring their friends. 
The AlAS uses their earnings primarily for student lectures and films but they also go towards cutting costs of social events, such as this one. Occa­sionally, cash prizes are awarded in design competition as well. 
So it's Friday night again and you're looking for something to do. If you're in the mood for hauling out something tie-dyed or something mod, you can go to the Psychojelic Ball. If you're in the mood for creating something deranged· looking(whatever that entails), you can go to the Psychodelic Ball. If you're in the mood for just going dancing and aren't in the mood for Theodore's, you can go to the Beaux Arts Ball. Whatever you do, 9 p.m. at the Architecture lobby is an option to be psyched about. 
though the festival was nation­ally recognized, it went un­noticed by some people at Notre Dame. Neither the Dome, the Scholastic, nor the Obser­ver covered the 1979 festival. 
multaneously, a preservation of certain historically relevant jazz values and principles that, it is hoped, will never be lost." The "Big Noise" continues this dedication. The result is inter-

is now accepting applications for the paid position of 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
for the 1987-88 year. 
Applicants should have experience in graphic design and/or ad layout and must be available to work at least 10 to 12 hours a week. 
Applications are due in the Adworks office, 3rd floor LaFortune, on Thursday, April 16th, by 5 pm. 
Call Rob Bartolo at 9-ADWORKS (239-6757) between 2 and 5 pm for more information. 
easy 
I 
-· 
I 
The Observer -April 10, 1987 Scene-Page 3 

A mid-spring night's dream 

TRISHA CHAMBERS features writer 
11,at Is one of the first VVthlngs you think of when you hear the word "spring"? -~ Love, of course. In keeping with this theme, Saint Mary's Department of Communication and Theatre Is presenting "...hot Ice and wondrous strange snow..." 
It's not what you'd first think. "Not Ice" Is an anthology of famous Shakespearean love scenes Including sonnets and songs to put you In a romantic mood. 
The talented cast, Tone Al­varez, James Dalley, Joan E. Evert, Brian Loeffler, Megan 
..
McCabe, Jane Anne Rledford, and Kristen Schumacher, under the direction of Roberta Rude, takes us back to Shakespeare's time, yet shows us universal and eternal truths about love. We move from the magic of that first meeting, through the experience ofjealousy, to the final commitment of love. 
In keeping with Shakespearian tradition, the performances are held outside for a natural setting, no admis­sion Is charged, and refresh­ments are served. Most Impor­tantly, a stage Is not used, so that the actors may directly Interact with the audience. 
So, If you're In the mood for love, treat yourself to a little Shakespearean fun, see "...hot Ice and wondrous strange snow..." Per(or­mances are April I 0 and I :3 at 

12:15 and April 12 at 7 p.m. 
Tone Alvarez and Megan McCabe get physical In the Saint Mary's Shakespeare festival this weekey1d. 
The Emporium: not just your daily 
CAMPUS VIEW APTS 

Furnished Utilities Paid 

Now taking applications for summer leasing 
Ph. 272-1441 
We couldn't help but smell the 
perfume and incense emanat­
Ing from the shops leading to 
the restaurant at the hallway's 
end. This quaint line of shops 
Is sure to divert those headed 
for the Emporium --but only 
momentarily--for the restau­
rant has Its own unique charm. 
Upon entering the Em­porium, we first noticed Its aes­thetic appeal. The abundance of plants suspended from pul­leys with pipes and beams strewn about contributed to Its unique warehouse decor. The stairs leading to the second fioor give the loft the appear­ance of being its own Island In the St. Joe River, which the 
.Emporium overlooks. 
Though the atmosphere Is certainly compelling, It's the food that draws people here-and will keep them coming back. Although the menu ap­pears to offer a limited selec­tion, there Is still enough vari­ety to please the average palate. Seafood and steak top the list of selections, with a wide assortment of side dishes available In almost any combi­nation. Vegetarian specialties are also available. 
"Though the atmo­sphere is certainly compelling, it's the food that draws people here... 
" 
As we were served our food, the waitress assured us that the food was delicious. It al­most made us wonder If she had taken a bite out of our 


Young men 18-35, 
PIME MISSIONARIES live t e GOSPEL among t e poor and unchurched in the Third World. So that all may knJw of God's love. 
interested in FREE 
BOOKLET about life as 
a missionary priest 
in PIME, fill out this 
ad and sen:! it to : 
PIME Vocation Dept. 3731 West 62n:l St. Chicago, Ill. 60629 
(312) 767--0620 
Dad, 
~·-----------------------~e______
Address.________________________________ 
Otis, &Ann 
Ci State Zi 
bread 
entrees, but after taking our first bite we were convinced that she knew what she was talking about. 
We started the meal with a beautiful salad, beautiful and g~een, that Is, unlike that found In the dining hall. What made the salad a must. however, was the Incredible selection of dressings we were offered. The two house dress­Ings were Indescribably deli­cious. The soups with their thick. rich fiavor were also a delectable appetizer which must be experienced to be ap­preciated. 
The entrees continued our gastronomically gratifying ex­perience. While the tempura shrimp Is not quite on par with that found In Japan, It comes close enough to satisfy even the most discriminating gour­met. The accompanying brle · cheese further proved that being a vegetarian doesn't mean sacrificing exquisite taste. 
Dessert concluded the meal on the sweetest note possible. Though they have not yet decided on a name for our meal's grand finale, our sug­gestion was "t1awallan Monkey Pie" for the dessert's coconut. 
banana, and Ice cream. 
The East Bank Emporium Restaurant offers a wonderful combination of food and fun for a leisurely night on the town. The charm or the foyer shops and the unique atrno· sphere they create, enhance the whole experience. l'or great food and a change of pace In dining out. we highly recom­mend dining at the fmporlum. 
DANE GALDEN and PATTI TRIPATHI features writers 
O
nce through the front door of the East Bank Center, we were Immediately struck by 
the atmosphere. This would be a dining experience. 
Lovely little boutiques lining both sides of the walkway at­tract customers to stop In and browse among the clothing and. trinkets In the display windows. 
r------­
The Observer -April 10, 1987 
ND Jazz Festival cures blues 
continued from page 1 
Old Fieldhouse, Notre Dame students got pretty crazy with the festival. Today students are responsive but they forget It's there sometimes. It's a shame If they don't recognize It as a musical happening," 
Carey sees the change In style of music reflected In the three decades of festivals. "In the early slxltes, there was an Interest In experimental music," he said. With the rise of rock 'n' roll, Carey ex­plained, there seemed to be a general decline In Interest In jazz. However, In the 1968 fes­tival, one of the bands turned the festival around with a rock version jazz. No prize was awarded that year because the performances were more rock than jazz. But, significant strides were made In the world ofjazz. 
Carey e11Joyed watching the evolution ofjazz at the fes­tivals, which also reflect the social changes of the times. "They got judges that were real trendsetters. They let new things happen," he said. The judges and audiences return year after year. And the impact of the festival has been great. 
It has not been unusual for 
big-time scouts to come to the 
festival looking for musicians 
for Chicago clubs. AI Jarreau Is 
just one of the contestants who 
appeared In the festival before 
he became famous. Jarreau 
represented Ripon College and 
later went on to pursue a suc­
cessful solo career. 
Carey himself went on to be­
come a jazz writer who has 
been published In Roiling 
Stone, down beat, Jazz Times, 
and The Boston Globe. "Big 
Noise from Notre Dame" is his 
first novel. 
This year's festival begins 
Friday evening at 7:.30 with a 
performance by the Notre 
Dame Jazz Band. Other bands 
competing Friday are Fredonia 
Jazz Ensemble, from SUNY at 
Fredonia, William Paterson Col­
lege Jazz Sextet, University Of 
Massachusaetts at Amherst 
Jazz Ensemble I and the 
Eastman Jazz Ensemble. 
Closing the concert will be the 
Judge's Jam. 
Saturday's events begin at 
1:00 with the University of Ak­ron Ensemble. Other saturday afternoon competitors are the Western Michigan University Ensemble, The Rubber City Ryt­hym Section, from the Univer­sity of Akron, the Northern Illi­nois University Jazz Ensemble and the Purdue University Jazz Ensemble. 
Saturday night's concert 
begins at 7:.30 with the MIT 
Festival Jazz Ensemble, the 
University of Notre Dame Jazz 
Combo, the Michigan State Uni­
versity Jazz Band I, the Stan­
ford University Jazz Combo, 
the North Texas State University 
Three O'Clock Lab Band and a 
Special Ouest Band. 
Joseph Carey dedicated his 
book to the "Big Noise" of the 
festival. He encourages stu­
dents to take advantage of the 
"crash course In musical edu­
cation." 
:'.~,,y__ 
t:>~){~~~;~~?·t~ _,.~~,:·~.I. ~~·~~":st.~~~~..: a!.: 
" 
1. Dave Baker led the trombone section of Indiana University in 1959. 2. Frank Wess• .3. Stanford University Jazz Bandmembers of 1987. 4. Pianist Herb Pilhofer, who won the top soloist award in 1959. 5. The Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble of 1987. 6. Ron Carter, a 198.3 judge. 7. Tenor saxophonist Gary Berg led the UJW Quintet from the University of Minnesota to the best group title in 1959. 8. 1\ cool dude wails on his flugelhom. 9. Roy Haynes plays the drums. 
L _ • 
:r 
~--------~---~--~-----------~--·-----_....__ 
Scene-Page 4.5 

-----·------~-~-~---­
Scene-Page 6 
The Observer -April 10, 1987 
Dreamtime won't incite sleep 
D
DENNIS CORRIGAN work and Hugh Cornwell's Sun" offers a ray of hope in the features writer guitars play off each other face of despair. "Was It You?" nicely, while Jet Black's drum­looks for the cause of every­reamtime. the new ming and J.J. Burnel's bass thing from racial divisions to Stranglers album, is just add a rhythm section capable genital diseases. "Nice in Nice" that. dreamtime. The disc of its hard moments ("Was It both worships and criticizes a grows on you until you're You?" which also offers a sassy girl who gets everything from caught in its layered arrange­horn mix) and softer moments her "dad." 
ments. One or two quick lis-("Always The Sun"). "Mayan Skies" is a beautiful Dreamtime musically has a look at the Mexican landscape lot to offer. "Nice in Nice (the and love. "Big In America"
Records 

Riviera town)'' is a bouncy 60s­takes a sarcastic look at life in Dreamtime ish pop tune, complete with the United States (I met a woo-woo backing vocals. The roach in Americatlis family had The Stranglers 
title track has an odd, almost a massive tree-they live just African feel. "Shakin' Like A about everywhere). 
tens aren't enough to appreci­Leaf" offers a Forties big band Dreamtime isn't without its 
ate Dreamtime. You need to style horn section. "Mayan weaker moments. "You'll Al­
spend an afternooon with it. Skies" and "Too Precious" are ways Reap What You Sow" After listening a few times simply two of the lushest songs seems to drag on endlessly 
you begin to realize you're on going. The former features a while depressinganyone who to something good, one of the bold trumpet while the latter's has experienced the full turn of 
best dreams of your life. backing harmonies tied with fortune's wheel. From the opening song "Al­Greenfield's keyboards and But one low point can't ways The Sun" to the closing Cornwell's guitars just make for obscure what is otherwise a "Too Precious," Dreamtime is great listening. solid album. Dreamtime is one filled with intriguing mixes. Lyrically, Dreamtime also has dream you can have again and Dave Greenfield's keyboard a lot ~oing for it. "Always The again. 
Stand Op is a let down 
KEVIN WALSH commercial, it did nothing for Sound of Our Town" from Bos­
T 
their artistic credibility. ton, Mass. with a Stax horn The new album is called section and some soulful back­he last time we saw the Del Stand Up, and it's hard to tell if ground vocals. The lyrics Fuegos they were hawking they're exhorting their listeners sound forced, and overall it Miller Beer. Despite the fact to stand up or trying to psyche was too much of a familiar 
that I thought it was a cool themselves up. In continuing move for an opening song. with that theme, they supplied The theme of bitterness over a little stand on the back so an infidelity is really worn thin
Records that if you wanted to you could on Stand Up. This is shown on display the album cover on songs like "Long Slide (For An your desk. You wouldn't want Out)," "News From Nowhere," to. and "He Had A Lot To Drink 
features writer 
The Del Fuegos 
The first song is "Wear It Today," the latter being a really 
Like A " a re-write of "The depressed, harp-laden after­math to George Thorogood's "I Drink Alone." Lead singer Dan Zanes growls, "He remembers the dances they used to dO'Now the only time he dances is trying to walk home/When the town shuts down at two." 
The two real winners on Stand Up are the first two songs on the second side, the spooky "A Town Called Love" and more hopefully "I Can't Take This Place." 
"A Town Called Love," a slow tempo number which likens the decay of a town to the decay of love in the abstract and within a specific relationship. It ends with the hope that the two lovers "can rise above/In a · town called Love." In a guest shot on this song, James Bur­ton's sneaky guitar sounds as good as it did when he was with Elvis Presley. 
The next song, "I Can't Take This Place," is something of a 

WVFI Top Ten 
1. 
Love Removal Machine The Cult 

2. 
Set Me free (Rosa Lee) Los Lobos .3. Dear God XTC 


4. 
Bizarre Love Triangle New Order 

5. 
Lessons in Love Level 42 

6. 
With or Without You U2 

7. 
Ever fallen in Love Fine Young Cannibals 


8. World Shut Your Mouth Julian Cope 
9. 
All Around the World Paul Simon 

10. 
Honeythief Hipsway 


This chart compiled from the playllsts of WVFI-AM640 as ofApril 8 
sister song to "Town Called Love" and features background vocals from Tom Petty. He even mentions a town at one point in saying, "The worst town .in the country to hinvBecame his favorite one." In the end, he leaves the town and settles down happily some­
plac~ else. 
Stand Up ends on a sen­timental note with "''ll Sleep With You (Cha Cha D'Amour)." The song is basically an open invitation to a woman saying that if she ever needs him, he's there for her, and not. in the context of the song, in a sexual way. It's sort of an 80s 'Til Be There," and it's a neat way to end the albuni. 
The Del Fuegos are produced again here by Mitchell Froom, and his trademark organ is all over this album. I think it's time for a new producer. It seems like the band is strug­gling to go in a new direction on Stand Up, with the in­creased use of back-up singers and new instruments besides their trademark grunge guitars. Mitchell rroom is too familiar and I think he's holding them back. 
Stand Up is not the crucial 
Del Fuegos album. I have to 
admire the band for their ap­
parent dedication to a sound. 
also admire a band who thanks 
Steven Wright, mentions Spinal 
Tap in their liner notes, and 
admits, in fact flaunts, their 
position as "rock's ugliest 
band." Look at the album cov­
er. 
Stand Up is a tolerable, 
though frustratingly mediocre, 
work from a band that can and 
will move on and do great 
things someday. 
lOur choice ofentree includes our Salad Buffet plus 
Baked Potato, French Fries, Vegetable or Rice Pilaf. 
•Charbroiled 
Ham Steak •Prime Rib of Beef 

• 
Fried Filet of Sole •Chicken Teriyaki 


-
•Chopped Sirloin Monterey • Lemon Sole 
only $5.95 only $6.95 
Served: Monday 5:00 til 8:00p.m.; Tues.-Sat. 5:00 til 10:00 p_m, Sunday 4:00 til 8:00 p.m. 
Regular Dinner Menu SERVED EASfER 11 a.m.-6 p.m. 
300 E. Colfax at the River Reservations Accepted 
234-4477 

Clubs and Organizations 
Applications are now available for: 
1. 
Student Government Funding for 1987-88 

2. 
Club Registration 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 

4. 
Office Space in LaFortune 


Pick applications in Student Activities Office, 301 
LaFortune. 
Applications are due Wednesday, April 15 at 4:00 pm. 
-~-­
The Observer -April 10, 1987 Scene-Page 7 
' 

The Student Activities Board presents "Top Gun" tonight and tomorrow night In the Engineering Auditorium. Tom Cruise stars as an Air Force flying ace who falls for his technical Instructor, Kelly McGillis. There's only one word that can describe the night scenes In this movie­-awesome! Shows begin at 7, 9: 15, and 
11:30 p.m. Admission Is $1.50. 
"Home of the Brave" will be showing tonight at the Annen berg Auditorium. The distinguished tradition of American humor seen In the likes of Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, and Porky Pig emerges In this evocative portrait of American life In the 
1980's. Shows start at 7:30 and 9:30p.m. 
The -Scoop 
A guide to movie theaters In the South Bend-Mishawaka area: Forum I and II Cinema 
52709 U.S. 31 N. 277-1522 Now playing: Nightmare On Elm Street 
3, and Witch Board. 
100 Center Cinema 1 and II 100 Center, Mishawaka 259-0414 
Now playing: Little Shop of Horrors and Crocodile Dundee. River Park Theatre 
2929 Mishawaka Ave. 288-8488 Now playing: A Room With a VIew. 

Art 
The "Wisdom-Reilly Collection of Old Master and 19th Century Drawings" will be on display at the Snlte Museum of Art through June 28th. The collection focuses on the works of various artists from that era. Also on display until April 16th Is "Graduate Printmaking. Indiana University: 1968-1981. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday through Saturday; 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday; and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Thursday. 

/Music 
Jack Wagner will be In concert tomor­row night at 8 p.m. at the Holiday Star Theatre In Merrillville, IN. For ticket Infor­mation call Tlcketron at 769-6600. 

Mass 
Masses for this weekend at Sacred Heart Church are: Saturday night at 5 p.m. Sunday at 9 and 10:30 a.m. and 12: 15 p.m. 
'Angel Heart' reveals a Heart of Darkness 

DON SEYMOUR features writer 
A 
ngel Heart teams up some of the most singular talents of contemporary mmmaklng: Mickey Rourke, who charmed us with his down-and-out, Intui­tive style In nlms like "Diner, ""The Pope of Greenwich VIllage," and "9 1/2 Weeks,"; Robert DeNiro, one of the most acclaimed actors of his time; and writer/director Alan Parker, who brought us "Midnight Ex­press," "Fame," Pink Floyd's "The Wall, "and "Birdy." With a crew like this, we can reason­ably expect a tour-de-force. And they do deliver. Angel Heart mixes elements of the detective story and the super­natural to create a stunning vision of the Individual who has sold his soul for success. 
Mickey Rourke plays Harry Angel, a detective hired by a mysterious man named Louis Cyphre (DeNiro) to find a singer who disappeared during World War II. The time Is 1955. The singer's name Is Johnny Favorite. Yes, names are sym­bolic In this fllm. Angel's search quickly leads him to New Orleans and into the voodoo religion that Is prac­ticed both In Harlem and in the bayou. Along the way, he 


All the Seasons of Mercy 
Contemporary in theme, written in inclusive language, and grouped according to the seasons of the church year, these prayers, based on the Common Lectionary, convey the mystery of Gods presence in our lives. 
"Gods grace has showered upon Diane Karay the wonderful gift of theological insight and the poetic insight to translate the mystery of Gods grandeur into prayers that sing with scriptural integrity and human honesty." -James G. Kirk 
P'aper, S7.9'i 
Published by The Westminster Press 
AJ.J(li/able at 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
meets Epiphany Proudfoot, 
played by The Cosby Show's 
Lisa Bonet, a young voodoo 
priestess and Illegitimate child 
of Favorite. The two share a 
steamy scene together. 
The fllm Is filled with recur­
ring Images: a closing gate, a 
slowly rotating door fan, a lit 
window In an apartment block 
from which issue screams, a 
V-Day celebration In Times 
Square. These Images occur In 
Harry's consciousness, but they 
are unexplained until the 
climax--one I cannot tell you 
because It would ruin the unex­
pected power of the movie. 
What the Images do show Is 
Parker's careful crafting of this 
nlm. There's great artistry at 
work here. Every shot counts. 
Every symbol Is rich. And they 
ail contribute to the stunning 
climax that will affect you long 
after you leave the theater. 
Mickey Rourke quietly and 
subtly creates Harry Angel 
before our eyes. He looks 
seedy enough to convince us 
that he Is a cheap detective on 
the Lower East Side. His an­
guish at the end of the mm 
brings together a character 
who has never been afraid but 
who has been tormented by 
nightmares and visions he can­
not understand. Angel Is 
Rourke's fullest and most ma­
ture characterization yet. 
Robert DeNiro, In a small but significant role, Is as elusive and slippery as a snake. His performance Is hypnotic and eerie, yet he has a strange power, not only over the viewer but over Angel as well. One does not fully recognize the power of his performance until the climax. 
Lisa Bonet, In her motion picture debut, Is sultry, sexy and generally Impressive. Epip­hany Is a more subtle and complex character than Denise Huxtable and, under Parker's guidance, she handles It well. 
As for Parker, he Is quickly becoming one of our most sig­nificant mmmakers. Each of his projects Is finely crafted and deeply moving In Its own way, yet, because of the diversity of his work. he Is Impossible to define. 
Angel Heart fits comfortably 
-
Into Parker's body of work. It Is a rare fllm, packing enough thrills to keep you Interested and enough chills to make you remember lt. 
I ' 
The Observer -April 1 0, 1987 Scene· Page 8 
The crossroads out of a revolution 
I 
'm old-fashioned, conserva­tive, reactionary, with enough streaks of liberalism, perhaps, to keep me ~om being written off as hcjlpelessly out of date. I'm not ready to see the clock on the old church tower turned back to the 1960's, nor do I want the world turned around so that It can make a return trip back to Ig­norance and darkness from which mankind has evolved. arthritis, I hope I'll have the grace to be brave as a Chris­tian. In the meantime, I'm cheering for medical science to find a miracle cure for every affliction. 
Most of the time, as Americans not hounded by poverty, we manage to stay healthy. Mental and spiritual pain, however, are no respec­ters of persons. Loneliness, depression, discouragement and the rest are moods that overtake us In the midst of happiness. We walt like children wanting to fall asleep to pleasant dreams, for the anxieties to go back to their closets. 
A Christian at any age, hating the shambles he has made of his life, may start to pray for help. When things fall apart, the Lord who endured heartbreak can seem very dear; we need His message of defeat turned into victory. We trust Him to have mercy on our small, shabby crosses, as He looks down on us from the Cross of shame which He made His throne. 
Why is the Cross never men­tioned in the context of our human sexuality, even by priests? As rational animals endowed with this major in­stinct, all of us are subject to the tease of the flesh. The body and the spirit are yoked In an uneasy marriage, with the lower appetites frequently In rebellion against the intellect and the will. 
ferlng gets lost behind the Easter lilies. 
We're psychologically health­Ier, I suspect. than the old-time penitents who wore halrshlrts or hid ~way from life as desert monks: Unnecessary suffering, deliberately sought as a way of paying for our sins, may serve as a stepping stone to godli­ness, as some of the saints taught. Penance, taken In small doses, Is as much as I can 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
From this column, you may conclude that I've become deaf and blind to human progress. I hope I'm neither deaf, blind, nor a blind man trying to lead those with sight. In the end, most people do what they have to do. I try to love and respect them, depending on them to love and respect me. 
It's the season of the Cross. We hear the lessons that tell us of Christ's obedience to the death of the Cross. We celebrate that ancient Instru­ment of suffering as the tree of life. We are reminded that He challenged us to take up the Cross and follow Him. 
We commonly complain that the holy lesson of peace on earth to men of good will Is put away with the Christmas decorations. We could add that the example of the Lord's suf­handle, though. 
The fast days, the meatless Fridays of Lent, a week In which I don't drink. an evening during which I don't smoke: these minor league abnega­tions do my soul good, like turning off Letterman so that I can visit the Grotto. 
Sooner or later, the rough times will come. I will get sick. Maybe I'll need an operation. I'm not patient with pain, even when It's explained to me theologically as an effect of original sin, or when I'm urged to offer It up In union with Christ's pain. I'm tempted to think that any pain Is dumb, and that It's inconsiderate of God to allow it. 
I'm deeply touched by dying people who have learned to turn their suffering Into prayer. When I'm afflicted with terminal 
Christians become humiliated by the sexual appetites. Temptation Is nothing to be ashamed of, though, since It's part of the human condition. One Is well off as a sexual being, capable of love and being loved. If sexuality Is to be used humanly, mere Instinct cannot be allowed to call the shots. Are liberated, born-again Christians supposed to live In bondage to the flesh? 
I hear preachers better than I am telling the gallery, ·"You gotta be you." The minorities are answering, "I gotta be me." The groundlings are clamoring. "We gotta be us." Hearing them, I'm almost persuaded, "They gotta be them." 
Then I read one, two, three, four articles or more every day in the New York Times. I found the script of Camus' "The Plague" being written before my eyes as a contemporary drama. Does The New York Times realize that it's telling us that the world Is starting to die? Is It hysterical of me to think so? 
I hope so. I hate being long­faced over the liberation. I'm not going to repeat again the statistics that could scare you. The Times will not blink at what I want to say next, "Being yourself has a limited impor­tance. Being alive as a life­giver is what Easter is all about." 
Is It dull of mind of me to conclude that the Cross is In the shape of a lifestyle that creatures afflicted with the human condition should start Investigating? Jesus Crucified Is remembered as a liberator because of the lesson of love He taught us. 

The love that came to us from the Cross was wondrous and unconditional. The Church has believed for 2, 000 years that the Father's love for the world was made visible In the Passion of the Lamb broken to pieces on the Cross. At Calvary, the love stronger than death was a divine Idea whose time had come. 
Because of lt. a priest has the grace to redefine his voca­tion If his faith has grown cold. A couple has the grace to redefine their marriage if their commitment has grown weak. The downtrodden have the grace to redefine their libera­tion In a way that shows that they have asked what they can do for their world, rather than to insist on telling the world what It must do for them. 
Liberation, even if it is overdue, doesn't have the right to act Irresponsibly. Love that is life-giving bears a Cross on Its back. Easter is a mockery if we pay lip service to the Cross on which the Prince of Glory died, wanting all of its love and none of its discipline marking our flesh. No one reading this column needs it more than me. 
Happy Easter. Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't love you. 
ATTENTION  I  
ALL N.D. AND S.M.C. WOMEN!  I  
I  
I  
I  
(any questions: call Robin Bolinger 283-4420  I  
or Cailin Stubbs 283-2729)  r  I  

,Awi'W'@'iiill),l§ 
----------------~ 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION '87 
2003 Sheridan Road , Evanston, illinois 60201 
Please send my free copy of the Summer Session '87 catalog with fmancial aid and registration information. (Available mid-March) 
Name 
School Address 
City 
State Zip 
Home Address 
City 
State Zip 
Wilh you were here. Send the coupon or calll-800-ENRLS-NU (Inside DJJnois call312-491-5250) 
ss 2 


-
-
The Observer 
Friday, April 10, 1987-page 7 
T1le ObMnw Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. T1le ObMnw Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All clasaifleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Typ1ng Free Pickup and Dahvery 277-7406 
PRO-TYPE Quality work, word procaeelng availability, reaeonable S. 277-5833. 
Wordprocessing-Typ1ng 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 
UNIVERSITY RESUME Prola11lonal Rnumn Student Rat.. Near tha Mall 272-8338 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
HELPI Need ride lo & lrom MPLS, MN lor Easier Will share expenses. Call Faria at 1873. 
LOST/FOUND 
loat: A blue Toles umbrella on 3-26 al lhe poet oHice al approximately t 0:45 
a.m. It lound, please call Tim at x4073. 
KEYS AND KEY CHAIN LOST SATUR­DAY NIGHT (3!.l087) ON REX STREET, NO AVENUE, OR AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4249'11 PLEASE HELP'II I ESPECIALLY NEED THE KEYSIIt 
Loat In Bookotore Game White London Fog J&Ckel at Stepan on 
4-2. Iffound, please call Pats st 3234 or 3926 
I still have nollocaled my Rolex Walch, or my h1gh school class r~ng--Detroit Catholic Central, blue stone. gold ""9 The r1ng has a lot of value as any class r1ng doas It you have 11. or know some­one who doas, please contact me or the rector ol Flenner No questions will be asked. The lnOCrlp!lon 1ns•de •• my lull name ·Eric £1078 
LOST 20-1nch gold cha1n on Stepan Courts last Wednesday, 4· 1 dur~ng Bookstore game It lound. please call Vln at C2t59 
FOUND: ONE BLACK FUTURA DIGITAL WATCH FOUND IN STEPAN FIELD PLEASE CALL £2873 TO IDENTIFY 
You borrowed my calculator 1n the tar· mlnal room at the computer building and dld'nt return 11. call Mathew at 2323575 
Loot. One atone Indian elephant statue, and lour Tlma-LIIe cookbooks. 234-9648, or leave at 228 Oecio. 
LOST: LIGHT BROWN LEATHER WAL· LET, POSSIBLY LOST IN SOH, PLEASE CALL MICHAEL MORAN £21 99, REWARD I 
LOST: one new leather Indoor-outdoor MacGregor BASKETBALL on Tues 7 April after 8:15 game. It wasn't even mine: I borrowed It lrom a good lr~end and would REALLY like to return 11. So It you havalt and are an HONEST Domer PLEASE CALL STEPHANIE AT 277­8241 THANKSIIII 
LOST: Black Wallet, at Sen1or Bar Wed. mght· ID'a, photos, etc. of sent•mental value. Much appreciated 11 returned. Call Connie 277·3545. Reward. 
FOR RENT 
SUM STOR:all belomngs(lncl lur)sall>'llecura B1ll M.2327416 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­8889 
House available June 1st lor long-term lease. $400mo. 277-7121 belore 9pm 
YEAR 277· 
3 BEDROOM APART For 87-88 school year Partially Furmsh&d $ 450tno. CALL 233 6298 
SUMMER SPECIALII 3 Bedroom Apart· ment $ 301}mo. avail In loll lor$ 45Gmo. CALL 23-' 6298 
BEDROOM CARPETED. 282· 
WANTED 
WORK FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS SUMMER. 683·8889 
GOING TO PERDUE? TWO STUDENTS NEED RIDE TOf'ROM LAFAYETTE EASTER WEEKEND PLEASE CALL LAURE£2769 
RIDE NEEDED TO NY 1can leave Wed 4115 lor Easter. Call Jim x1157. 
Ride needed to CINCINNATI lor Easter. Call Chris at # 2445 
I NEED GRAD TIX PLEASE HELPIII X1549 
Need ride to BOSTON EASTER BRK. Call 284·5459 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO TUESDAY, APRIL 14. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL MAUREEN AT 4281. 
DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WILL BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. 
Oespeately need ride to NY!NJ, leaving 4116 and returning 41,!1. Please call Scott at 3175. 
Bass player sought lor rock and roll band. Preferably underclassman. Musical inter· ests Include: Who, U2, Kinks, Cars, Police, Stones, Beetles, Van Halon, Rush, Zeppelin. Call Pete at 4644 or Kurt at 3175 lor more inlormation. 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21e, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, arts&cralts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pianojllay lor shows, judo, photography, dance, com· pulers, nature, wilderness, model rock· etry, guitar, radio, video,archery, year­book, wOOdworking, AN and typists. Write:Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779­9406. 
Here tor the summer and need a place to stay? I need one female roomate to share Turtle Creek apt. Call SMC-5239 if Interested. 
Ryder Truck Inc. 2715 N. Bendix, South Bend Two part time positions open lor working In the rental dept. gOOd com­unicatlon skill&bffice proles­sionalismtontract skills required. Excel­lent pa\'20·35 hr&Wk. great opportunity-Qxperlence lor a college stu· dent. Taking applications now. Call 277­3550, ask for Ed Norkus. 
MARQUETTE: NEED RIDE FOR EASTER. CALL ROB-1821 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio lor Easter Break. Willing to help pay tor gas. Please call Pete at 4644. 
DESPERATE FOR A RIDE TO BALL STATE or Muncie area THIS WEEKEND. Will help pay lor gaa. Pleaaa call LIZ 11 284-4206. 
HHEADING EAST ON 80·90 TOLL: I need a ride to Angola,ln or ride to Lansing,MI-Mar16,th.Can leave anytlme,Call Missy284-5486.$$$ 
I need a ride to UPSTATE NEW YORK. II you can help me, I can help you, GENEROUSLY. Mike 3121 
FOR SALE 
Round trip ticket to O.C.$1 00-Easter Call T ash at 277 5626 
FOR BALE: THE LOFT TO END ALL LOFTS Called "the second floor" by its current owner, Thlaloft has everything. A siderall to keep you from falling down, a steel ladder to keep you going up, a shell up top to hold your clock, candle, etc. Must see to believe, but If you're Inter· ested cell 284-5125 and ask lor Gertie. 
81' 0MNI.4DR..LOW MILES, AUTO TRANS,AIR, CALL 234·3792. 
HOME FOR EASTER Roundtrip airline ticket Chicago-Syracuse 4116 (6:30pm)-420(3:00pm) $99 or best oHer (312)973·7235(eve) (312)750-5126 TICKE 
DO YOU NEED MONEY? GOOO...I NEED GRADUATION TIXI CALL DIANNE AT 2617. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Need one graduation ticket. I am getting 4, but I have 2 parents and 3 brothers and sisters. Can't leave my little sister at home. Please call DON at 3675 Will Pay 
$$ 
Need Graduation Tlx··2 Do not need to be together. Will Pay $$ I am desperate Call MIKE at 3640 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or leaH a car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing available lor all US otateo. 
LARGEST selection of CIIH-Monarch Notes In Michianal Bu)VSell·· textbooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, BOB Howard St. just off ol N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
Are you going to be here for SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
If so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues of the newspaper. The jobs are varied and, If you are inter· ested In newspaper training In your spare time, call The Observer offices and ask for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
The Observer 
and 
Special Olympics 
NEEDS YOUIII 
HOT ICE HOT ICE HOT ICE April 8-10 noon Haggar Center, SMC BE THERE 
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Oam&St. Mary's College Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Scott Dupree'a Top 10 Motor Oils & T elecop1er Uses No. 2 -Pennzoil No. 1 • A Tie, Quaker State & Sexual Favors 
SENIOR FORMAL 
CANOlOS 
ON DISPLAY: 
MONDAY-FRIDAY 
SMC,HCC 
2-5 NO,LAFORTUNE 5:30-8:30 P.M. 
WE WANT GORGAR TO RUN FOR U.M.O.C. 
Ticket avail. lor Easter-return 1 way­lslip(LI),NY to Chlcago.Great prlce.Call Kathleen-284-5239. 
Mike "GORGAR" Gurdak for U.M.O.C. Ill 
GGARGORgargorGARGORgargorGA· RGORgargor GARGORgargorGAR· GORgargorGARGOR argorGARGOR· gargorGARGORgargorGARGOR gargorGARGORgargorGARGORgargor 
Need a ride to Indiana University thla weekend? Call Miriam at 2887. 
Guitarist looking to form a rock band All spots available except drummer Call Andy Therber at 283-3039 
Well, STANTON, lirst you go and censor someone's classislied, then you write a column on killing off moles. Having a good week, aren't we? 
NO Crew Invitational Regatta. April 11, Come support your lavorite oarsman. 
ATTENTION SOCIAL COMMIS· SIONERS The ONLY DJs THAT MAT· 
TEA are graduatingll You have only 4 weeks left of the best music on campus. Don't mess with bands and don't be fooled by Imitations, there is only 1 ONLY OJs THAT MATTER CALL NOWII PAT 277·3687 DON 283· 3675 TITO 277-()973 
CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP THIS SATURDAY CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP ONLY $4 ONLY $4 CHICAGO TRIP APRIL 11 LEAVE AT NOON 
SIGN UP 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE, SAB OFFICE·TILLFRI 
Onlooker-You're crazyl I've lived with JOHN CASKO for 4 years-and he's a SQUID. The man you really want is DAVE BRIGATII -GUIDO 
Onlooker-Don't listen to GUIDO, he's a FAT BOY. Give me a call tonite. J.S.CASKO 
TOASTMASTERS HAPPY HOUR AT RACE'S TODAY MEET AT MAIN CIRCLE AT 5 P.M. 
MATT SLAUGHTER IS A GEEK 
Thank you for retumlng my jeans jacket. Spring is back for good. 
STEVE HARVEY FOR NO LEPREC· HANII 
WE WANT STEVEII 
THANK YOU ST. JUDEI( 
TO JUST BECAUSE: THANKS FOR THE BEAUTIFUL ROSE. WHO ARE YOU? CORRINE 
THERESA DIGI ­Are tho11 U2 tlckato In your UNDERWEAR??? Fono 
K. Lynn-Juat remember honey.•• "The lend of circle• In the middle ol your for• head will take thla all away••." 
A tallow lruotrated one 
LBBS Mandatory Meeting Mon. 4113 7 p.m. 220 Hayes Healy 
I desperately need 2 Graduation tickets. II you help me, I will ensure your linancial luture, and linance your Senior Week Call Mark at 2339. 
OK this is my linal offer lor Graduation tickets. I'll give you my sister and my roommate for two Graduation tickets. They do not even have to be together. Call Mark at 2339. 
NO Crew Invitational Regatta from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Margaret Pritchard Park in Mishawaka, go East on Jefferson Ave, its opposite the lield lull ol Army Jeeps. Come out, soak up the sunshine, bring a picnic and watch NO rowers beat Mic· higan, Michigan State, Purdue and more. Contact your lavorite rower for more details. 
ATTENTION KERSTIN WHITE: IT IS ONLY NINETEEN DAYS AWAY. GUESS WHO. 
Hey Mellon-Head, yea ... sure you can probe me whoool ahh...l smell pinkl 
MAGGIE WETTERICH AND LIZ BE­CKLEY 
Maggie, Maggie, 10 eagar to plaaaa; We love to have tun, but we hate when you teeaa. You can come to our partlea, we like when you do; But hey, when you l..va, keep your hando oil our brew. 
And Liz, -all know you don't tool 
around, 
You've "worked" to the top atratght from the ground. Can't ...m to recall If you've ever oald 'no,' You alwaya seem to put out a good show. 
TO MY RUBBER DUCKY YOU'RE THE ONE. I LOVE YOU YOUR SKYDIVER . 
TO: MAJORITY OF 3RO FLOOR REGINA NORTH INHABITANTS AT SMC I live In the room Down by the trash Haven't seen y'alllor awhile, Since /sst Friday night's bssh.. , Just wanted to drop you a line (or ten/), To simply ssy HI... Things hsve been busy, Weaks have flown by... 
Okay, Okay, I'll make it quick: My attitude lately: HAS BITTEN THE MAJOR WADIII (so what, It doesn't rhyme) I beg the forgiveness of s/1... Sincerely, M.D. 
Manic Dapre11lva (kidding/) 
Need ride to Detroit. Will share expanses. Call Jon at 2100 
ED LANGLOIS & DAN GROODY TWO MORE DAYS UNTIL "THE DANCE CONTEST!" YOU TWO WILL NEVER SURVIVE! YOU THINK CROSS-COUNTRY BIKING IS BAD? YOU HAVEN'T SEEN ANYTHING VETil 
SINCERELY, MAUREEN & MARIA 
THE URGEI at CHEERS THR-SAT 
BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK 
22 CAVEGODSIIII22 CAVEGODSIIII22 CAVEGOOSIIII SAT. AT THEO'S 
ATTENTION All You Running Guru Types: Irish Spring Runs are approach· ing rapidly! Hurryl Hurryl Hurryl Run to slgnup now at NVA. Sun. APR 12th at 1 PM. Wear GREEN, look mean, and get a $Buck ofll 
IGUANA FOR UMOC 
IGUANA FOR UMOC 
IGUANA FOR UMOC 
The Man with the Golden Drsln Dave Lennert is the newest Bond In the most action-packed ol them all, this Saur· day at The Drain. Ask any Dralnhead for directions. Mr. Roto Is Intent on world domination. Where Is Bond? 
Well, Beth, It's been three days. Getting ancy yet? ·Ringbearer 
CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP THIS SATURDAY CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP 
ONLY $4 ONLY $4 
APRIL 11, LEAVE AT NOON SIGN UP 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE, SAB OFFICE-TILL FAI 
Drslnflnger 
Let Lennert ... Dave Lennert "widen your vocabulary" Saturday, Bond will demon· strata prowess with his power rod, The Walther PPK 
Join the ranks of Honeychile, Mary Good· night, Solitaire, Kissy Suzuki, and the enchanting Ms. P. Galore In sn evening for Her Majesty's Service 
THE DRAIN AND BONO AN EVENING OF LIVING DAYLIGHTS, AND MUCH, MUCH MORE Don't miss out on the Drain bash ol the year Please come as your favorite Bond char· acter 
Dr. No, Goldfinger, Erma Blount, Quarrel. Felix Leiter, Drsx, Oddjob, Mr. Big, Tee Hee Ask sny Drsinhead lor details Brought to you From The Drain, With Love 
JUNIORS JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S HAPPY HOUR, FRIDAY 4·7, BE THEREIII 
FRIDAY NIGHT I 
FRIDAY NIGHT I 
FRIDAY NIGHT I 
Rock and Roll with 
THE BOTTOM LINE 
at The Alumni-Senior Club. 
FRIDAY 1111111 
The DRUIDS are pretenders to the faith. The foolish mortals cen't even handle mere fire. They will be reduced to ash and the real priests will arrive. 
WHAT THE HELL ?Ill Dodge those lalling comets, 'cause Beth's b-day is coming I Wish her a happy 19th on Sunday at £4066, or just bring presents. We love youl the little pink gumdrop, the 
conservationist lor Christ, and the one who doesn't know about· 
Welcome to Notre Dame, MISSY CASTON After 6 years, it's great to see a good lriend again I 
Love always, Art 
Timothy Leary e Norman Bates 
A PSYCHODELIC BLAST 
BEAUX ARTS -Friday Nita 9·2 architecture building 
featuring: BLIND RIVER 
DJ'a: Scott Flora & Kevin Fiorito 
DRUIDS ARE TACKY ... sponsored by the Society against Hooded Lunatics 
a mysterious observer ... 
NOOMC Right to Lile is looking for OF­FICERS for the 1887188 school year. All positions will be open. Now Is your chance to get involved. Applications In your mailbox soon. 
Phil "the grapevine" Rauen 
I am so upset. angry, and irritated • your performance this semester Is the reason. Hey kidde, you may be protected, but as an engineer you just can't cut it. For your disregard of studying and com­plete lack of ambition I nomlnale you lor the of the week. For many weeks. 
Love and kiSses. Mom DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FULL­TIME JOB, AND I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. 
...hot Ice and wondrous strange snow... an anthology ol Shakespeare's sonnets. scenes, and songs TODAY, TOMOR· ROW, MONDAY·12:15PM, HaggerCen· ter, SMC. SUNDAY· 7:00pm. 
DRUIDS, UNITE. Elect ArchdrUid as UMOC. 
MOTHER SAID ... 
NORMAN, DON'T MISS BEAUX ARTS II Friday night 9-2 featuring BLIND RIVER PBYCHODELIC 
"CONDOMS: ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW FOR SAFE SEX" Junior CAROL CRAWFORD will be giving an lnlorrnative lecture In the base· ment of BP tonight at 7:30 p.m. If for some raaaon you can't make It, give her a call at # 1338 and she'll answer any questions you may have 
DATE NEEDEDIII Will some domer ple8M ask me out and prove to me that yes, I do have acme sex appeal left. I can't afford to be picky. Please call me, ANN DUCEY, at # 1341 A.S.A.P. ­
ELVIRA IS A BITTER CHICK 
look lor the sign that says 
TOTAL PARTY 
Stephanie Tol•tadt, Both ol the two crazy guys would like to thank you lor going to lunch with them. Don't worry about Calculus. We both promise not to say anyth1ng to OR. ALAN HOWARD about you skipping class yes· terday. In fact, we promise to keep our mouths shut and we won't tell anyone that you skip about hall of your classes. Your secret Ia safe with us. 
From Two Wild and Crazy Guys 
The HEAT Is on in HOLY CROSS vote JILL TOMKO KIM SARTORI KARIN RADER ANDREA RECESKI for HOLY CROSS Hall Council I 
•••KATHLEEN BRENNAw·· •••KATHLEEN BRENNAw·· ••••HAPPY BIRTHDAY•••• We love you you wild womanlll Cath, 
Jen, Mb, and Anne 
Show the wortd just how UGLY you are ... U.M.O.C. 
Mirror mirror on the wall Who's the ugliest ol all? U.M.O.C. 
Ugly Man On Campus 
Haven't you always wanted to participate In a fixed election? Now's your chancel Start your campaign lor U.M.O.C. today. 
Archdruid lor U.M.O.C. 
Fr. Ted lor U.M.O.C. 
In 24 hours DENNIS HUGHES will be 21, but will he be sober? 
All his lriends at Logan want to know is, Should we tell Betsy? and what color underwear do you wear? Happy Birthday, Love Your lrlends at 
Logan, Lizzie, Ralph and George! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DENNIS HUGHES! My Lll Bro Is 21 tomorrow · he's growing up -mom is so proudl Love your B1g Sis, Ellzabufl 
Matt, Happy 21&11 Love, Mom,Oad,Kim,Suzle,Dan & Chrissie 
HiiMy name Is Kim & I need a ride to St. Loula(the city-not St. Louie the street) 11 you can help call me at SMC5481 and please specify which destination when calling. I can leave at 2 on Wed 
................................................................ 
Sean & Trent Good luck In Bookstore. Sorry we won't be there-let ua know how you do. G & C 
LIZ-DOG MARTUCCI 
They say sewing s chair on Saturday Nightls like chewing Ice-a s1gn olsexual 
frustration/ We hope you can do something about this. 
·lhe Irish boys 
-. . . ,... rrr t t • ; ' "l "' ~ J \."" ';"; 
The Observer Friday, April 10, 1987 -page 8 
Irish take on Kenyon in lax Golf team goes to Indy 
home-opener 
By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 
Home at last. After five road trips, featuring four games, the Notre Dame lacrosse team opens its 1987 home season Sat­urday on Cartier Field, taking on the Kenyon College Lords. 
After two weeks without a game, Head Coach Rich O'Leary is afraid that his squad might be a little rusty. 
"It's really hard to tell where we are, since we haven't played an actual game in two weeks," O'Leary noted. "We look at this game as the start of our second season. It will set the tone for the rest of the year." 
The Irish never have lost to Kenyon in the six years of the series, and they don't plan on breaking that string this weekend. One of the keys to keeping the winning streak alive will be to control the tempo of the contest. 
"We really want to put a lot 
of pressure on their attack," 
noted O'Leary. "We need to 
contain their quickness and 
shut down their two big 
scorers. We're going to try and 
run them down." 
O'Leary is confident with his 
reserves, especially now that 
several younger players have 
started to come on. 
"We got some good play
(during Tuesday's scrim­
mage) from some people who 
have not had a lot of playing 
time, especially on defense," 
said O'Leary. "I am confident 
that they can step in and do the 
job." 
The first home game will fea­
ture other attractions besides 
the top-notch lacrosse action. 
The Dog 'n Brew Crew, the of­
ficial Notre Dame Lacrosse 
Fan Club, will make its 1987 
debut. Also, at halftime of the 
game, a shooting contest will 
be held, the winner of which 
will receive a genuine Notre 
Dame lacrosse stick. 
When asked about rumors 
concerning the unveiling of a 
new Dog 'n Brew Crew team 
uniform, Tom Tracy, the Crew 
president, responded only, "No 
comment." 
Since the Wooster game was cancelled last week, Kenyon will be the first game against a Midwest Lacrosse Associa­tion opponent. The game, scheduled to start at 1:30, is im­portant for Notre Dame's By ORLANDO R.UBIANO Sports Writer 
"You're only as good as your last performance," is the attitude the Notre Dame golf team will take into this weekend's Indianapolis In­tercollegiates, being hosted by Ball State. Coming off a strong second-round perfor­mance in last weekend's Purdue Invitational, coach Noel O'Sullivan is confident that his club will have the carry-over effect in display. 
At Purdue, the Irish found themselves one spot from the cellar after the first round. The weather condi­tions, however, which caused havoc the day ear­lier, improved considerably which seemed to be a good omen for the linksters. As a team, the Irish trimmed a whopping 40 strokes off the previous day's total. 
"That averages to 10 strokes less per man which is almost unheard of," said a smiling O'Sullivan. 
With the stellar second­round effort, the club jumped five teams to finish lOth. Overall, the squad shot a total of 640 which put it 24 strokes behind winner Miami of Ohio (616). 
The Indianapolis Intercol­legiates will be a 36-hole event played at Eagle Creek Golf Club (the site of the USGA 1982 Public Links Championship). The course is a par 72 with a rating of 
73.4. The tournament will be attended by all Indiana schools, thus the bragging rights of Indiana are at stake. Defending champion Ball State will be the likely favorite, but O'Sullivan believes his club has an ex­cellent chance to win the tournament and medalist honors (which it last did in 1980). 
"We finished ahead of Ball State last weekend for the first time in a long time, and they have traditionally been a strong power in golf. I know we can finish ahead of them again, because our guys feel the same way " said O'Sullivan. ' 
In order to do so, O'Sullivan is relying on his number one and two Doug Giorgio and Pat Mohan 
. ' 
respectively, to provide the spark. Senior captain Chris Bona, who has fired un­characteristically high num­bers this spring, will need to shoot better if the Irish en­tertain any hopes of victory, according to O'Sullivan. 
"We truly feel that this tournament can be ours " he said, ' 
Baron new St. Francis coach 
Special to the Observer Last year, Gary Brokaw took the Iona job, while the year
Notre Dame assistant bas­before Pete Gillen was named ketball coach Jim Baron will be head coach at Xavier. named the head coach at St. Francis (Pa.) today. Baron has "You always want to be a been an assistant under Head head coach," said Phelps. "Ot­Coach Digger Phelps for six herwise, why are you in coach­seasons. ing? Now, it's Jimmy's turn. 
We wish him well." Baron, 33, will replace Kevin Porter as coach of the Red Baron is a graduate of St. Flashes. Bonaventure where he played 
Baron is the ninth Irish as­guard for the Bonnies. In 1977 sistant under Phelps to move he co-captained the Bonnies into a head coaching position. when they won the NIT. 
Soccer team heads indoors 
Observer Staff Report 
Despite the nice weather, the Irish soccer team wiii stay in­doors this weekend for the Nor­thern Illinois indoor soccer tourney in Palentine, Ill. 
The 16-team tournament will feature suads from several Chicago-area and Wisconsin schools, and Cleveland State. 
This is Notre Dame's second trip to the tourney. 
The team also announced Thursday that Assistant Coach Steve Reymer will leave the team to take a job in California. Reymer joined the coaching staff last season after earning two monograms as a midfielder for the Irish soccer team. 
Mr. Stanford Contest 
Saturday~ April 11 
7:30 p.m. Library Auditorium 
Doors open at 7:00p.m. Cost is $2.00 
See some of Stanfordls Finest studs 

ALUMNI SENIOR 
1
._______________________j 
chances at a bid to the 1987 NCAA Lacrosse Champion­ships. 
Appearing Tonight: 
·THE BOTTOM LINE 
Senior Cup Specials All Weekend 
$.75 DRAFTS 
The Observer Friday, April 10, 1987 -page 9 
Watson leads in hurdles 
Sports Briefs 
Track team heads for California 

pecially from San Diego State a team with talented athlete~ in the sprints, distance and field events. 
Stanford will also present a challenge with its strong middle-distance and distance crew led by Charles Alexander. Brian Connelly should be a threat in the 800-meter run as should Mark Olsen in the 1,500­meter run. 
LSU has strong pole vaulters, high hurdlers and jumpers as well as Mark Venhelden, the in­door champion in the 1,000­yard run. Washington should be dangerous with its speedy crew of sprinters. 
"As a dual-meet competitor 
San Diego State should be the 
toughest competition," said 
Piane, "but from the individual 
standpoint we'll get a tough 
meet from LSU." 
It will be a non-scoring meet 
so time and distance will be 
more important than the places 
won in each event. 
"It will be a great opportu­nity for the guys to run ex­tremely fast times," said Piane, "because of the scoring system and quality of the com­petition." 
Bookstore Basketball referees will have a mandatory meeting Monday, April13, at 7 p.m. in LaFor­tune Little Theatre. Referee shirts, whistles, rules and schedules will be distributed. For more information, call Warren Berry at 283-1206. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball is still looking for more paid referees. Anyone interested should contact Warren at 283-1206 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer team is hosting its annual spring tournament Sunday at Stepan Field. There will be games versus I.U. at 11 a.m., Loyola at 1 p.m. and Saint Mary's at 3 p.m. -The Observer 
Mud Volleyball Players can find the tournament schedule on the wall outside the An Tostal office after noon today. The games will start Saturday, Aprilll. Call Michelle Gund at 284-4344 for more information. -The Ob­server 
Dancin' Irish tryouts will be held beginning Sunday, April12, from 3 to 6 p.m., with the first clinic at Rockne's third floor gym. First cuts will Monday, April13, from 6 to 9 p.m. at Gym 1 of the ACC. All Notre Dame and Saint 
' Mary's women are invited to participate. -The Observer 
··~-~~~-~-~)l••u~•lll•llf1')11•1111tlll11FIS.til•~~
I 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE ~ Department of Communications & Theatre I 
presents a studio production of ~ 
"...hot ice and wondrous strange I 
snow."
I 
a Shakespearean Anthology 
I devised & directed by Roberta N. Rude 
Aprils,9,1o,13-12:1s pm Haggar Center Terrace Rain site Haggar Parlor 

April 12 -7:00 pmI Haggar Parlor 
Free Admission, for more info 284-4640 
' 
Summer Quarter 
The University of Chicago June 22 -Aug. 29 
LANGl1.\(;Es: Arabic, Chinese, French, Georgian, German. Greek, Italian, 
Latin, (lucchua de Cuzco, Russian, Spanish 
ARTS AND LITERATURE: Photography, Italian Art l600-l7SO, Renaissance Art, Theories of the Novel, Academic and Professional Writing, Currents of Though! From Locke to Burke, American Literature of the 1920's, Post World War II American ~'iction, Translating WorstwanJ, Idea of Method, Electronic Music, Dostoevsky & Tolstoy, Philosophy of Law, Contemporary Theory of Value, Phenomenology, Vallc-lnclan Y La Revolucion Teatral Del S. XX 
SOCIAL SCIENCES: Action Anthropology, Archeological ~'ield School, Sex Roles & Society, Witchcraft & Shamanism, Freud, Economics, History of Western Civilization, Early Child Development, Psychotherapy With Families, Self-Culture & Society, Literature & Politics in Latin America 
SCIENCES: Developmental Biology, Apes & !Iuman ~~volution, Cell Biology, 
Organic Chemistry, Computer Sciences, Fundamental Mathematics, 
Calculus, Linear Algebra, Statistics 
Call or send for a Summer Bulletin: 24-llour hotline .112-702-J46H, Summer Quarter Office, University of Chicago, SH45 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago, IL 606.17. 
Name___________________________ 
Address________________________________ 
City, State, ZiP--------------------------­Area of Interest ______________________________ 
-,.c;~-.~,_~~-~..-~~:·· 
1 by '!'rack and Field News as a ~ semor. 
I
I 
. 
_ . 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Sports Writer 
Saturday the Notre Dame track team travels to the west coast to take on Stanford, LSU, San Diego State and Washing­ton in the Stanford Invitational. 
Leading the balanced Irish attack will be freshman Glenn Watson. Having already qualified for the IC4A Cham­pionships earlier in the outdoor season, Watson will try to im­prove his time of 14:08 in the 110-meter high hurdles and run 
13:88 to qualify for the NCAA Championships. 
Although only a freshman, Watson has already gained valuable experience from the indoor track season. He finished third at the indoor IC4A Championships in the 110­meter hurdles and his perfor­mance at that meet earned him a spot on the East Coast Con­ference team. 
"He is a very good worker," said Irish head coach Joe Piane, "and he is turning out to be a great competitor." Watson, a South Bend native, gained much of his track expe­
rience as an all-American in 
high school and was ranked among the top 10 in the nation 
He won the 110-meter high hurdles at the Midwest Meet of Champions and made a smooth transition into college athletics by winning the same event at the Hoosier Dome Invitational, his first indoor track meet. 

Joe Plane 
At Stanford the Irish will also need a strong performance from freshman Tom Kraus in the shot put and discus and junior Tim Brown in the 100 and 200-meter dash and 400-meter relay. 
Freshman Mike O'Connor ran 3:55 in the 1,500-meter run at the Indiana Invitational and continued success in both the 1,500 and 800-meter run will help the Irish. 
Notre Dame faces tough competition this weekend, es-
i Observer announces promotions 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer Sports Depar­tment announces the following recent promotions. 
Jane Shea, a Saint Mary's
College sophomore from Prospect, Ky., has been 

promoted to Saint Mary's Sports Editor. Shea is a former sports writer. 
Rick Rietbrock, a junior from Elkhart Lake, Wis., has been promoted to Assistant Sports Editor. Rietbrock will also continue as sports copy editor. 
Brian O'Gara, a sophomore from Westbrook, Maine, has been promoted to sports copy editor. O'Gara is a former sports writer. 
Dennis Corrigan, a junior from Goeppingen, West Ger­many, will continue as Sports Editor. 
Marty Strasen, a sophomore from Sault Ste. Marie, Ont., and Pete Gegen, a sophomore from Creve Coeur, Mo., will both continue as Assistant Sports Editors and sports copy editors. 
Terry Lynch, a sophomore from Wallingford, Pa., will continue as sports copy editor. 
Theresa Kelly, a Notre Dame freshman from Rochester, Ill., and Steve Megargee, a fresh­man from Tallahassee, Fla., will begin training as sports copy editors. 
lunches startin1 •t-______ $3.45 

Dinntn st1rtin11t-_______ $4.75 
lar ...-7 days a w .... 
....n..n.: 11:JOa.•.·•o,... 
Fri.-$&: 11:30 a.•.·11 ,... 
.... ' llelw.y. ":30 .............
Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272-7376 South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy .(Roseland) 

.. 
Friday, April 10, 1987 -page 10
The Observer 

Tolstedt making transition 
Women's tennis takes to road 
By SHEILA HOROX to the collegiate level of com­"It's frustrating because a 
petition. couple of points changed the
Sports Writer Number-two singles player swing of the match." 
After taking three of five duel Stephanie Tolstedt is one of the matches during their recent freshman making the difficult "Against SIU­homestand, the Notre Dame transition. Edswardsville, Natalie and I 
women's tennis team ·will "I know over the next three played one of our best matches, travel to Toledo and Eastern years that I've got to become but we're still looking for our Michigan in hopes of evening mentally tougher," said first doubles victory," said up their 5-7 season record. Tolstedt. "Tennis is 90 percent Tolstedt. 
mental. Lately, I've been 
The Irish would like to keep playing well in spurts but I In preparation for this pace with the goal of ending the need to find a consistency." weekend's action, Gelfman has season with a .500 record. The the team working on footwork goal meets the expectations of Despite the team's success­and a continued emphasis on Head Coach Michele Gelfman, ful homestand, the last several aggressive play at the net. whose team faces a schedule matches have been a source of Even Tolstedt, who would loaded with Big 10 and MAC frustration for Tolstedt. much rather roam the Conference opponents. Against SIU-Edwardsville, baseline, recognizes the impor­
nothing seemed to go Tolstedt's tance of adjusting her game. "Evening up our record way in either singles or doubles. "I usually stay on the
against Toledo and Eastern 
baseline, but when I get theMichigan will help us reach our 
goal," said Gelfman. "I refuse Tolstedt lost a close 7-6,7-5 chance I'm starting to come to to lower the standards for my singles match to Portra George the net and take advantage," team by scheduling weak com­and then lost a three-set said Tolstedt. 
petition to accommodate a doubles match with partner Last year the Irish defeated win1oss record." Natalie Illig to Jenny Reiter both Toledo and Eastern Mic­
The Observer/David Fischer 
and Nicky DeMuro, 6-2,4-6,7-5. higan, and the team is hoping Nt~mber-two singles player Stephanie Tolstedt has been one of A .500 record is also "I had three set points this year's outcome puts it a talented group of freshmen for the Irish women's tennis team reasonable for a team with six against George in the first set, where it would like to be, at this year. Sheila Horox features the talented Tolstedt at right. freshmen, who've had to adjust but I lost it," said Tolstedt. .500. 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
ble dark horses have cast them­selves into the fray of those bat­tling to possess the title of Bookstore champion. Among these is Josephus and the Et­hiopian ShimSham, who pounded Ponders Pants Pyt­hon, 21-13. Python Kevin 'Homer' McCormack feels that the ShimSham and other long shots shouldn't be counted out. 
"If you're a top team, you can't look past a team like that (Josephus)," said McCormack. "They'll scrap hard and can shoot outside or take it in and hammer you. I'll bet they make some waves." 
Receivers 
continuedfrom page 12 
"Over the summer, he's ma­tured a lot and I think he'll take a bigger leadership role this year. 
"He's an excellent run block­er, he can really move people. He's got only average speed, but he has really good hands. His character and leadership will be a plus." 
Behind Heck is a trio of tight ends fighting for the number­two spot. Right now, the race is wide open between sop­homores Kurt Zackrison and Mike Brennan, and junior Tom Byrne. Stewart says all three have been impressive and it could be a while before a win­ner is decided. 
Irish 
continued/rom page 12 
In addition, two senior out­fielders, John Loughran and Scott Rogers, who had hit well last year but were in bad slumps for most of this season, showed signs of coming back into form. 
"It's been a frustrating last couple of weeks, and I know we're not an 8-16 team team," said Gallo, "but we have to look in the mirror and say 'Are we an 8-16 team? No. But is our record 8-16? Yes.' 
)
•, 

~.:Jt~~~---------------------------------------------------------F-ri.da•y•,-Ap•r•il•l•0,•1•98~7---pa•g~e~ll
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 



YWI. [NtEP 
~ U )OJ To (AI?f?Y~~V:.' A,vAV rr IN. (){){)5 Mt
•.(H£(LL FI?JSK. 
..
I 
1 Ready for  
battle  
6 Cartoonist AI  
10 Vessel  
14 Lariat  
15 Emanation  
16 Suit to­ 
17 Small trunk  
19 Pro­ 
20 Cinders or  
Raines  
21 Pets  
23 Literary  
collection  
26 Altar words  
27 Inflexible  
28 Actor Peter  
30 --go (like  
some traffic)  
31 Temple  
33 Steersmen  
for short  
34 Wearing sabots  
35 Frighten  
37 Zest  
41 Shillong's land 43 Spielberg of  "1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righls Reserved  4/10/87  
film  
45 Declaimers  6 Chocolate  
47 Fragrance  source  
48 Pardon  7 Diving bird  
49 Put a lid on  8 Wolf or coyote  
51 Negative  9 Inconsisten­ 
52 Repeat  cies  
53 Olive genus  10 Railroad  
55 Wife of a  employee  
baronet  11 Language  
56 Having control  of Ecuador  
over  12 "Great God,  
61 Buffalo's lake  we spring,  
62 Granular snow  to thee-"  
63 Rub out  13 Minimal  
64 Old Eng. gold  18 Ancient  
piece  22 Neck part  
65 Facial  23 Hannibal's  
expression 66 Challenged  obstacle 24 Ham's father  4/10/87  
25 Jason's ship  39 Verne captain  49 Morris or  
DOWN  29 Fisherman's  40 Insect  Octavus Roy  
1 Sandy's bark  equipment  42 Xyst  50 Mode or carte  
2-Grande  30 Rip-offs  44 Decreased  54 Indian city  
3-Tse-tung  32 Agreeing  45 Kind of engine  57 106  
4 Diminutive  36 Reckless  46 Blood  58 Corn unit  
suffix  driver?  condition  59 Sugar suffix  
5 Loitered  38 Eng. river  48 Apple juice  60 Nouri1hed  


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
Sab Presents: 
: The Peter Thorpe Band :
• • TOP GUN
• performs: • 
: History of the Blues 101 : 
Friday and Saturday 
• Friday 4-6 • 
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 
$1.50 Engineering Auditorium 
• Fieldhouse Mall • 
: Rain? Huddle : 
Absolutely no food or drink allowed. 
sponsored by SAB 
11£. )ttl t.1XJI< TOO R£Pt.J/l.KNi 
~Bf~. 
I 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
Campus 
FRIDAY 
3:30 p.m.: Philosophy Lecture, "An Evaluation Procedure for Epistemology," by Prof. Richard Foley, ND, Library Lounge 
4:30 p.m.: Department of Earth Sciences Lecture,"Influence of Terrain Accretion on Techtonics and Sedimenta­tion in the Cordilleran Foreland Basin ­Fact of Fantasty?" by Dr. Lee Suttner, Indiana University, Bloomington, 101 Earth Sciences Building 
SATURDAY 8 a.m. -3 p.m.: Graduate Record Ex­amination Test, Engineering Auditorium 
11 a.m. -1 p.m.: Great Hunger Clean­Up, NMMC students will be going into the community to do a variety of clean up, fix-up projects to raise money for world hunger, Sponsors: Overseas Devel­opment Network, World Hunger Coalition, SMC Social Action Club, and others, for more information, call Sophia Twarog 283­2814 
11 a.m. -1:30 p.m.: Fisher Hall Regatta Picnic Lunch, North and South Dining Halls will be closed for lunch but will reopen at 4:45p.m. for dinner 
12 p.m.: SMC Relays, SMC, Marion Franklin, Goshen and Huntington Col­leges, SMC track 
1 p.m.: SMC varsity Softball, SMC vs. St. Francis, Indians, SMC Softball Field 
1:30 p.m.: Lacrosse, ND versus Kenyon, Alumni Field 
7 p.m.: Mr. Stanford contest, 8 contes­tants, $2, Library Auditorium 
SUNDAY 1 p.m.: Tennis, ND vsEasternMichigan, Courtney Courts 
5-7 p.m.: Pizza-Movie party, sponsored by ND Management Club, free to mem­bers, Flanner Basement 
FRIDAY, SATURDAY & SUNDAY: Col­legiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Center 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Seafood Bisque Fettucini Alfredo Baked Cod Mexican Pizza Rolled Spanish Omelet 
Saint Mary's 
Batter Fried Fish Manicotti Egg Foo Young w/ Rice Deli Bar 
ld 
Friday, April 10, 1987 -page 12 

Top seeds nab impressive victories as Bookstore enters second round 
By PETE SKIKO nified by the fact that The Next...Who Cares? dusted off Sports Writer Creamers shot 24-of-32, a torrid the Snow Blowers, 21-12; New 75 percent from the field. Mr. Order, looking very good early The second round of Coffey was led by Notre Dame in the tournament, ravaged A Bookstore Basketball got un­football player Tony Eason's Priest and Four Followers, 21­der way yesterday, and in the 10-of-14 shooting. 8; Corporate Raiders hacked words of Tournament Director In other action involving their way to 21-9 schooling of Steve Wenc, it was "just a seeds, Jus' Tofu, formerly Ex-MBA Quasi-Scholars and beautiful day out there for bas­Sweet Sixteen squad Tofu Jocks, and did so playing 4-on-5 ketball!'' Chaka Khan, obliterated the without the services of Cedric 
Several highly-seeded teams Skid Row Swallows by the Figaro; and Otis Hurts contin­agreed with Wenc, as many of score of 21-6. The Swallows ued to surprise with 21-9 drub­them came away with impres­choked mainly because of the bing of Chris Rawson and Four sive early-round victories, absence of three of their team Other Guys Who Can't Pick Up leaving a slew of pretenders members from the first half be­Chicks. and would-be-spotlight­cause of a lengthy varsity Rob Smilikis shot a perfect stealers in their paths to the baseball practice. Paul 10-of-10 from the field in finals on Serene Sunday during Reuvers had nine points to lead leading We Eat Cannibals over An Tostal weekend. Tofu. Teammate Bill ZadeH Team No. 193, 21-10. Also, the 
Highs in the 60s and light scored eight points and snared Rat Pack deflated We May Be breezes seemed to breed hot 11 rebounds. Small But We're Big Where It shooting performances and all­"First, midgets," said ZadeH Counts, 21-11, and the Holy Rol­around good play from the top in a reference to Tofu's opening lers divine intervention the key seeds and lesser-known squads round opponent, the Screaming for the Rollers? alike. Midgets from Hell, "and now "No way," said Holy Roller 
While no major upsets oc­two-on-five. Heck, we'll play Ed Bell. "The chicken patties curred, a close call was logged whoever they send us, but it's at lunch were all the inspiration on Stepan Court 5 as Bon Jovi been pretty interesting so far." we needed." (Living on a Prayer) nearly put Also coasting through the Heat Miser, who scorched If a shot through the heart of Mr. second round were: Min­You Fake It One More Time, Coffey and the Non-Dairy nahoonies, led by Pete I'll Spit In Your Face by the Creamers, finally bowing in Graham's 7-of-9 shooting per­score of 21-13, and other possi­overtime, 24-22. The gutty per­formance in a 21-4 slaughter of formance by Bon Jovi is mag-Love Fest Lives; Who's see BOOKSTORE, page 10 
Irish travel to Tulane after blasting Illinois-Chicago, 20-3 
By STEVE MEGARGEE they have a real class opera­for Notre Dame in one game of gave us some added confi­three pitchers combined on a Sports Writer tion," said Irish head coach Saturday's doubleheader, and dence, but there's still a long six-hitter. Larry Gallo. ''They've been in either Kevin Chenail, Brian way to go in the season. They "Coffey pitched well," said 
After literally pounding its and out of the top 20 and 30, and Piotrowicz or Robert Fitz will were happy, but it was kind of Gallo. "He's starting to get con­way out of an eight-game losing baseball is really big over start in the other game Satur­a reserved happiness." fident, and we scored a lot streak on Wednesday, the there. They had about 5,000 day and the single game on games. We'll find ways. I feel runs, so he felt more comfort­Notre Dame baseball team will people watching the LSU Sunday. confident we'll do that." able. We're still walking too have an outstanding opportu­game. Tulane gets a lot of The Irish found the perfect Notre Dame started quickly, many people. A couple of nity to see if it has broken its people from the Catholic solution to bust out of their as a six-run third inning gave times, Coffey struggled, but he slump this weekend with a leagues in·New Orleans, and eight-game losing skid and to the Irish a 7-0 lead. Ahead 10-3 came back each time." three-game series at Tulane. that's where some of the best tune up for Tulane on Wednes­after eight innings, the Irish lit First baseman Tim Hutson 
Perennially in the NCAA high-school talent is." day. Notre Dame blew out the up the scoreboard for 10 more was the biggest of many Irish Regionals, Tulane has been Tulane also has one of the top University of Illinois-Chicago runs in the ninth inning to pro­heroes at the plate. The junior ranked in the top 30 for much college pitchers in the nation. Flames at Chicago, 20-3. vide for the final score of 20-3. had three hits in five at bats, of the season. The Green Wave Ricky Purcell, whose brother Making the outcome ironic was Notre Dame is now 8-16. including two home runs and a will go into the weekend series Joe was coached by Gallo in the the fact the Irish were coming Freshman Mike Coffey, who double, for four runs scored smarting from a 5-4, 15-inning summer Cape Cod League off an 0-8 homestand, and that had been rocked in his first two and four runs batted in. loss on Wednesday to third­before playing in the Toronto UIC had just upset Big Ten con­starts of the year, allowed only Second baseman Mike Mos­ranked LSU in a game to de­Blue Jays organization, is tender Northwestern, 14-7, the three runs over six innings to hier, who had two hits, two runs termine bragging rights in the among the national leaders in previous day. chalk up his first collegiate vic­scored and two RBI, also state of Louisiana. wins. Purcell may be pitching "They finally realized what's tory. Kevin Chenail and Brian homered for the Irish. 
"They were an NCAA against Notre Dame. happened to us can happen to Piotrowicz provided three in­regional team last year, and Mike Passilla will be starting other teams," said Gallo. "It nings of perfect relief, as the see IRISH, page 10 
With Brown & Co. snaring passes, receiving corps continues to shine 
By RICK RIETBROCK "The whole gang has been can replace the performance of Assistant Sports Editor working really hard, and graduating Milt .Jackson. everybody has progressed," "Milt just had an outstanding 
The Notre Dame football says Irish receivers coach Pete all-around year (31 receptions, team, as always, figures to Cordelli. "But each of them has 592 yards) last year," he says. grab its share of national atten­to get more consistent so they "He was the best blocker I've tion next season. And its receiv­perform at that same high level ever seen from a receiver spot. ing corps will demand much of every day. We're not getting That's something we've got to the spotlight. that consistency right now." work on, we have to block much 
Of course, a big reason for Junior Reggie Ward (5 more aggressively." that is flanker Tim Brown, the catches, 66 yards last year) and While the receivers have team's leading receiver the sophomore Aaron Robb are work to do on their blocking, 
past two years. The Irish junior battling for time at the flanker knocking people around is a threw himself into this year's spot behind Brown, while Ray strength for Andy Heck, who Reisman fray with numbers Dumas (5 receptions for 85 appears to have secured the top like 45 receptions, 910 yards (a yards) and junior Tony Eason spot at tight end. The 6-6, 235­
20.2 average), seven touch­( 4 for 82) wage the war for time pound sophomore split time downs, 27.9 yards per kickoff at split end. with Joel Williams (13 catches, return and two punt returns for Fifth-year senior Alvin Mil­138 yards) last year and Tight 75 yards. ler is recovering from knee sur­Ends coach George Stewart 
But there's more to this crew gery and his status for next says he is confident Heck (7 than Brown. The outside season will depend on his catches for 36 yards) will be receivers comprise one of the recovery. able to handle the duties quite team's deepest positions, Also in the scrap for game well next year. making it difficult for players time will be sophomores Steve "He made some big catches 
Notre Dame flanker Tim Brown and the rest of the ""'""'ivin
to garner playing time, and Alaniz and Brad Alge. last year," says Stewart. 
even harder coaches corps look to be one of the strongest units on the Irish •utJ•~u•,.••
for to Cordelli says one of the keys team this spring. Rick Rietbrock has the story at left.
decide who will get minutes. for the group is how well they see RECEIVERS, page 10 
-.... 



