

Courage and hard work have paid off dication of personal success than the for this triumphant Special Olympian, medal around his neck 
I~ 
By TRIPP BALTZ Observer Staff 
Referees, decorators, entertainers, track rakers, computer assistants, drivers, interpreters, guides, buggers, cheerers and janitors. 
These and many other jobs have been filled by volunteers for the 1987 Inter­national Summer Special Olympic Games to be held at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses Aug. 1 through 8. 
Martha Bolyard, director of the Human Services Committee for the Games, said the Games will employ the talents and time of approximately 10,000 to 12,000 volunteers. 
The committee has received more than 18,000 applications, however, not all of which were submitted before the April1 deadline, according to Bolyard. 
Bolyard said the extra applicants will 
--~---~----~--~-----. 
I I I I I I 
I j 
l 
j 1 
1
After the summer is over, South Bend will be remembered for hosting the world's largest amateur sporting event of 1987. 
More importantly, the area will be a community that contributed to the world-wide effort to recognize the skills and courage of mentally-handicapped 
people. 
Benefits from the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games will be shared by both the Olympians and the area: the Games will have an emo­tionally and economically uplifting im­pact on South Bend. 
Citizens of Baton Rouge, La., where the last ISSOG were held, said the city of South Bend should prepare itself for a treat. 
At the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, more than 4,700 athletes will participate in the ten-day competition. The number of countries represented will be 72. 
That's 22 more countries than those participating in the 1983 ISSOG in Baton Rouge, La. South Bend will host 700 more athletes than the 1983 Games -­with correspondingly more coaches and Olympians' families. 
That means more townsfolk who will benefit from the intercultural exchange of housing families and cheering ath­letes. 
A larger supporting cast than in 1983 will be in South Bend as well. Volun­teers from the entire country will rub elbows with the strong contingent of workers from Michiana. 
A long list of entertainment, sports and political celebrities also have agreed to lend their support. 
Because of the human spirit of the Games, when one worker hugs a vic­torious Olympian, or nurses the skinned knee of a fallen one, all the supporters will experience the emotion. 
This warmth will be felt by all at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cam­puses. 
And the main supporter of the 1987 Games, South Bend, will feel the warmth for a long time. 
Volunteers prepare to assist at Games 
be offered work in two different areas. "We're going to be offering all18,000 a job assignment," she said. 
She said the applicants will receive a letter offering them the opportunity to be a member of a cheer team. 
"They will encourage and motivate the athletes at sports events. They'll literally cheer on the athletes," she said. 
Because of the absence of cheerers at other Special Olympics games, "it's been frustrating for the athletes," Bolyard added. 
Bolyard said her committee will send out the letter "this or next week" of­fering the chance to be a member of the cheer team to all the volunteer ap­plicants not found other positions. 
Bolyard's committee has been working .to place volunteers as tele­phone receptionists, computer operators and many other jobs needed to make the Games run smoothly. Workers will be used to serve food and clean up after major events such as the opening and closing ceremonies. 
Some individuals applied more than a year ago, Bolyard said. Ideally, the earliest applicants would get the first choice of jobs, she said. Bolyard ex­plained that recently, however, many applicants have been placed because they were best suited for the job. 
She added this was usually a situation of an individual having certain talents for a job, not because that individual was "in the right place at the right time." 
A second optional job will be offered the 8,000 or so extra applicants. Addi­tional workers will be needed to be part of a "ready-on-the-site group of back-up volunteers," Bolyard said. As back-up workers, these people will be available to fill in as needed. 
Most of the volunteers come from the Michiana area, Bolyard said. ''Acouple thousand," she said, are from "cor­porate volunteers," hailing from all over the United States. "Some are ND 
alumni, some were involved in other state-wide (Special Olympics) pro­grams," Bolyard said. 
Although recruiting is the first con­cern of the Human Services committee, it is also involved in such areas as train­ing and volunteer information. 
Very many of the volunteers have limited hands-on working experience with handicapped people, Bolyard said. "They don't feel secure working with mentally-handicapped individuals," she said. 
Bolyard said her division has organ­ized orientation sessions with the vol­unteers to aquaint them with working 
see JOB , page 4 

The Observer Special Olympics Premiere Issue -page 2 
OFFICIAL SPORTS 
~



-4-­
... I • 

_.1(;:> ;:::spa 
-~
-~ 
.....,._ 
bowing
IOCX* 

........ 
DEMONSTRATION RTS

OFFICIAL 
This chart tells which countries and how 
(!) 
z
many states will participate in the official 
C/) 
...J z
and demonstration sports. From the looks ...J z <( ~ 
<( z 
co oc C/) 
w
of the chart, aquatics and athletics will I­
>-a: C/)
w til UJ w
offer some intensive competition! ...J UJ ...J ...J z 
...J ::::> ...J Cll 
z
0 0 0 <( w 
> w a: I-I­

The Observer Special Olympics Premiere Issue -page 3 

Committees working to host Olympians' families 
By JUDY MOLNAR Center and the Family Housing Com­The committee has received more them with orientation on having Special Observer Staff mittees. than 500 requests from athletes' Olympians' families with them. "We 

The housing committeehas been very families t.o be placed in private homes. are trying to do the best job we can and 
South Bend, Notre Dame and Saint busy searching for housing for the Most have been placed with host are working very hard," said Slamin. Mary's will open not only their hearts families, according to its chairman families, Slamin said. The Family Center, located in the to Special Olympians and their Sandy Slamin. Slamin said the process has taken a Monogram Room of the Joyce Athletic families, but their homes as well. "The process of matching the host lot of time and volunteers' efforts. Vol­and Convocation Center, will "provide Serving the families of athletes has families with prospective families has unteers have interviewed host families, a hospitality area for the parents and 
been the primary goal of the Family been overwhelming," Slamin said. inspected their homes and provided families of the athletes," said Pam I Newman, chairman of the center com­j mittee. 
j
The center also will provide the families with refreshments, informa­tion and updates on events. It will in­
1
clude a computer and message board j for access to all the events and activi­ties. 
The center will sponsor a "roving photographer that will have 35mm and instant shots of events and athletes," 
I
said Pam Matze, assistant chairman of the center. The pictures wi11 be ar­j ranged on a bulletin board for athletes' parents to take. 
Tours of South Bend, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be offered by the Cen­ter. Clinics for the families also will be held by the center. Cindi Moo, assistant chairman, said one of these will be a seminar on a "microwave cookbook which is designed for S~cial Olym­pians." 
Gifts from local merchants and schedules of the week's events will be included in "goody bags" to be dis­tributed by the center. 
Newman said her committee is con­fident everything will run smoothly be­cause of the successful trial runs they made during the past two Indiana State games. Newman said the committee "worked out the bugs during the State Games." 
"Our biggest recognition comes from the parents who are overwhelmed and excited that someone is thinking of
A moment of triumph is one to be porters. Many show there support of on. Every small victory is a sign of the 
them and have a special place they can
shared between an athlete and her sup-the Games by cheering the Olympians good effort the athletes put into their 
go," Newman added. 
sport. 
The 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games 
are about to begin at the University of Notre Dame and 
The 
Saint Mary's College in South Bend, Indiana. 
Thanks to the news media, the whole world will hear about the largest event ever held for mentally retarded athletes -yet few people outside Special Olympics know about the 1987 International Games' largest sponsor. 

Largest 
The largest contributor of funds and volunteers to the 1987 International Games 
Most people are surprised to learn that it isn't a 
multi-billion-dollar corporation. Instead, it's a volunteer 
service club called Civitan -58,000 men, women and teenagers who have made financial and volunteer 
commitments to the 1987 International Games way 
out of proportion to their numbers. 
Working in their hometowns, Civitans have raised $1,600,000 for the 1987 International Games. In addition, 
Sponsor of 

International 
over 1,000 Civitans will travel to South Bend at their own expense, to work side by side with local volunteers. 
Now that you've heard of us, we'd like to hear from you

Special Olympics 
Civitan International has I,800 clubs in communities 
throughout North America, Europe, and Asia. As a 
volunteer service club, we support Special Olympics and 
other charitable causes -while providing the opportunity 
for each Civitan member to develop his or her leadership 
potential. If you would like to learn more about what we do, how to join a Civitan club, or how to start one in your 
ea~ •~o:munity, please call us, toll-free at 1-800-CIVITAN. 

You Never 
H d 0 f 

Premier Sponsor of the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games 
CIVITAN INTERNATIONAL WORLD HEADQUARTERS: 
P.O. BOX 2102. BIRMINGHAM. ALABAMA 35201 (205) 591-8910 

The Observer 
Job 
continued from page 1 
with handicapped persons. 
Because the athletes are the reason for the Games, most of the volunteer spots will be geared to assist them. "There will be very few (positions) where a volunteer will not come in con­tact with an athlete," Bolyard said. 
One of the important jobs will be that of "most needed hero," said Student Commissioner Eric Hickey, who di­rected the student volunteer effort at Notre Dame. These special volunteers will be on call to help deal with any unforeseen jobs that arise during the course of the Games. They will need to 
I. be resourceful and be able to roll with the punches, according to Hickey. Although much emphasis has been placed on local civic groups, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were also the focus of the recruiting aims. Because they know the two campuses well, the students' aid is especially needed. "(They) tend to get very in­volved" in volunteer activities like the Games, said Hickey. Because students volunteering for the Games may have problems finding the time and the means to travel to South Bend, the volunteer effort con­centrated on local students. Student volunteers would probably be asked to act as drivers and guides around campus, and also to help out with various sales and security tasks, according to Hickey. A third function handled by Human Services is distribution of general in­formation to volunteers. Bolyard said volunteers working in specific positions will receive informa­tion from the committees under which they are working. 
i ' Information pertinent to all volun­teers will be administered by Human
} 
Services. Another function handled
I by Human Services is registration of This Special Olympian shows that as victory itself. The desire to perform on the faces of the athletes. volunteers. bravery in the attempt to win is as great well and to give the best is evidenced 

j 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
,{ 
I 
I 
~ 
1 
I 
{ 
f 
"Goodspeed to youryouthful valor. So shallyou scale the stars." 
Virgil, 1be Aeneid 
St. .foe Bank isproud to he a principal spm;sor ofthe 1987 Intenzational Summer Special O~vmpic.s Games, andproud of you, Micbiana,Jor shourinRyour support in so mm~v special u·ays. flJe _,pirit ofthe athletes, and the 
dedication and encouraRement ofparents, spon.mrs and t•olunteers make the stars a little easier to reach for all ofus. 

St. Joseph Bank 
© 19R~ St. Joseph Bancorpor;.llion MemiX'r FDIC 
·~ 
~-¥~.... 
Olympic• 
5I ]<><Bani<. Proud Sponsor 

The Observer Special Olympics Premiere Issue -page 5 

Olympics fundraising effort an early success 

been tremendous. "We decided to be low-key in the South Bend area. We did not want to agressively solicit, but every day people came in and wanted to give money." 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities have also been a great help to the games. The Chicago Bears and the Buffalo Bills exhibition game, which took place in the Notre Dame Stadium, was played to benefit the Spe­cial Olympics. 
"Notre Dame's Athletic Director, Gene Corrigan, helped to move the J game from Chicago, where it was 
I
originally scheduled to play, to the Notre Dame Stadium," Scholl said. I "We received $230,000 from that event. It was a big help." ~ 
I I I 
"We have achieved 95 j I percent of our goal with j j thirty days to go before the Olympics even begin." 
Help from the students came when the Trident Naval Society of Notre Dame's Navy ROTC, held a 24-hour run for Special Olympics benefit, Scholl said. "The students earned $7,000," he said. 
"Head Basketball Coach Digger Phelps and Head Football Coach Lou Holtz have given speeches for Special Olympics, and they have donated 
speaker stipends as well," he said. 
Both Phelps and Holtz will be par­ticipating in the Celebrity Golf Tourn­ament along with Indiana University's Head Basketball Coach Bobby Knight on July 26 and 27. 
• 
r 
One Special Olympian pauses for a mo­ment between competitions, a rose pressed against her lips in thought. 
even begin." 
Scholl said the committee's goal is to 
reach between 4.8 and five million dol­
lars. 
The purpose of the committee is to 
"make the money for the Games, which 
everyone else spends," added Scholl. 
The committee relies upon corporate 
sponsorships, individual contributions 
and special fundraising events in order 
to make money for the games. 
"Some of the special events include something like a 'Kiss the Pig' contest at a local grade school," Scholl said. 
"We are a beneficiary. We work with the corporate sponsors and convince the corporation to make a contribu­tion," Scholl said. Through use of its logo, Special Olympics helps sell the product and the corporation receives publicity, he added. 
"The whole process is referred to as a cause-related promotion," Scholl said. 
The Fundraising Steering Committee will work past the Games. "We'll still be receiving funds, but we'll gradually phase down," Scholl said. 
He said the Special Olympic non-for­profit organization will continue opera­tions until the end of 1987. 
"We will exist until the end of 1987 at the very least," Scholl said. ''More than likely operations will not phase down completely until 1988." He said one major effort which has been increasing funds is the sales of the theme song for the Special OlympiCs: "A Time For Heroes." 
"Recorded by Meatloaf, (it) is the standard single, and on the flip side is an instrumental march by Tangerine Dream, who has recorded numerous movie scores including the music for Risky Business," said Scholl. 
Scholl said the amount of help and money he has received from con­tributors in the South Bend area has 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Observer Staff 
As far as fundraising is concerned, the 1987 International Summer Special Olympic Games are already a success, according to Bill Scholl, director of Fin­ancial Development for the Games. 
Scholl, who reports to the Fundrais­ing Steering Committee, said "We have acheived 95 per cent of our goal with thirty days to go before the Olympics 
Other activities available to athletes between events include those at Olym­pic Town. 
I he Ob~er ...er Special Olympics Premiere Issue -page 6 



INTERNATIONAL GAMES HISTORY 
Number of Number of Athletes Countries Participating Represented 
I 1968 I I 1970 Ill 1972 IV 1975 v 1979 VI 1983 VII 1987 
CHICAGO, IL CHICAGO, IL LOS ANGELES, CA MT. PLEASANT, Ml BROCKPORT, NY BATON ROUGE, LA 
SOUTH BEND, IN 
1,000 2,000 2,500 3,200 3,500 4,000 

4,700 
3 3 
3 
10 24 50 
72 

Hector e Anita • .James • .Jimmy • .Jorge • Shelly • Ronald • Anita Luka • Kenny • .Jessie • Murial • .Jeff • Carrie • Wanda • Marc Duane • .Jc::use • Charles • Chrystal • Marcelo • Sally Ann • Edie Aahley • Curtia • Teddy • Hilde • Valerie • Rose Ann • Hally .Jean-Franoioe • Earl • Unde • Mike • Claudia • Mariana • Miguel Phillippe • Hans • Nicole,. • p~ • p~ Rosa • Shena • VIckie Harpe • Fredsan • Annie'V%1 .'< ep~t;:J . • Lee • 'n'-oy • Marleen lone • "'n"-acey • .Ju~,50QSpeoh~~c:Ol~ e Bobby • Renaldo Chriatin Sua ew~:r1'VewfloWDmore;fban,7f009~Q.OO • Faye • Vera Brad • .Jacques ndles intlte'1astfive years Megdy • Dominic Grace • Ahmed e Luigi • Annette • Cleveland • Aemeeil • Darryl Donnie e Jt~~,JJ~p ~\U".jlJtj¥iJeg~ ea£h an4~\tj}J:J' mile.,;;ph e Udo 
Ulrike • Fifi • Kecki • David • Dimitri • Pauline • Roy • .Julia Theodoroa • Francisco • Sh.:•llaft ~. Ann • Christa& • Iva • Oacar ..Janevieve • Takumi • Laurie • Kuen e Sigmund • Katie • Carla Craig e Vinca • Kent e'fhe,Qf(joial,A.U:lin•tu•nnon • Bofai • Doug Veror'lica • An'O.f,Speeiai·Qiyutpiestln.te•llafiie:ltf~L"'daohana • Tak Anaal e laaiaa • Leilua • "Tlammy • .Joan • Daaanne • Shiveli • Steve Munual • William • Eric • Clarence • .Jack • Angela • Victor Tallie • Pramod • Charlene • Lynn • Sara • c:Jioria • Shmuel • Rick Melissa • Pearl • Moahe • Wallace • Ramona • Mickey • Renee Cafna • Allza· • Shako • Sebastiana • Hatauko • Yamplath • Hiroshi 

The Observer .. Special Olympics Premiere Issue -page 7 
Star Pele to direct clinic 
Observer Staff Report 
The 1987 International Summer Spe­cial Olympics Games Committee and Mayor Roger Parent have announced that the Stanley Covaleski Regional Stadium in South Bend will be used during the Games for the Soccer High­light Evening on Aug 6. 
Pele, the world-renowned soccer su-­perstar and Hardee's official spokesperson for the 1987 ISSOG, will direct a soccer clinic during the sports night. Hardee's is a Platinum Sponsor of the 1987 ISSOG. 
A Parade of Champions, represent­ing 24 countries and 19 different Amer­ican states, will begin the affair. An exhibition soccer game featuring Spe­cial Olympians will also be played. 
The evening will showcase Special Olympians, the Covaleski Stadium, and Pele, who is also on the Special Olym­pics international coaching staff. 
"Pele helped <soccer> to emerge as a viable team sport," said Mike McMinich, chairman of the Public Re­lations Committee. 
The event is open to the public. The entire seating capacity of 5,000 will be needed to accomodate Michiana resi­dents who wish to attend the evening. 
The event will be a special opportu­nity for the general public to see a world class soccer match. 
The ISSOG Committee and Mayor Roger Parent said they are pleased to have the opportunity to use the Covaleski Stadium for the Soccer Highlght Night. 
Admission will be free by ticket only. 

~ 
As one runner passes the baton on to in the relay, a part of the Athletics his team member, the race continues events. Teamwork is an important part 
Courage. Joy. lenderness. Strength. Love. 
• 
These know no boundaries. They are common to all who share the precious gift of human life. They are part of our beauty. 
And all who come in contact in any way with Special Olympics are touched by an ideal that brings out the best in each of us. 
We offer our wholehearted support and applause to the Special Olympics. 
St. Joseph County Right to Life, Inc. 320 N. Lafayette Boulevard South Bend, IN 4660 I 

The Observer 
• 


j'I 
K 
J'·1 
l,H. ''Let me win. But i 
t 
r. 

j let me be brave itt
•
1}1
t 
II 
% 
/' 
~ 
......-.t..•z•s•a..............£3122.......................................2~ 


I 
~ 
l 
j j j 
l 
j 
lf I cannot win, . the attempt." 
The Observer Special Olympics Premiere Issue -page 10 
June, 1963 a not-for-profit charitable organization 
under the laws of the District of Colum­
Eunice Kennedy Shriver starts a sum­bia. The National Association for 



Special Olympics
mer day-camp for mentally retarded Retarded Children and the American 
individuals at her home in Maryland to Association on Mental Deficiency
explore the capabilities of the mentally pledge their support for this first sys­
retarded in a variety of sports and tematic effort to provide sports training athletes to French Special Olympics December, 1974 
physical activities. and athletic competition for mentally Games. retarded individuals based on the National Basketball Association and 
September, 1963 
The American Association for Health, Physical Education and Recreation joins the Kennedy Foundation in a cooperative nationwide physical fitness program for mentally retarded individ­uals, offering awards for individual achievement in strength, stamina and coordination. 
1964-1968 
Summer day-camps for mentally retarded individuals financed by the Kennedy Foundation, provide the in­centive for hundreds of community and private organizations to establish similar programs throughout America. Activities of these camps prove that the physical abilities of mentally retarded individuals far exceed previous es­timates. 
July, 1968 
Recognizing that mentally retarded in­dividuals need far greater opportuni­ties for participation in sports training and athletic competition, Eunice Shriver conceives of an international sports event to demonstrate this need. Together with the Chicago Park Dis­trict, the Kennedy Foundation plans and underwrites the First International Special Olympics Games, held in Chicago's Soldier Field, for 1000 men­tally retarded individuals from 26 states, Canada and France. 
December, 1968 
Special Olympics, Inc. is established as Olympic tradition and spirit. 
January, 1970 
All 50 states, the District of Columbia and Canada have Special Olympics or­ganizations and State Directors. 50,000 athletes are involved in local programs of sports training and athletic compe­tition. 
March, 1970 
National Hockey League Board of Governors announces sponsorship of International Special Olympics Floor Hockey program. 
June, 1970 
550 young athletes participate in the First French Special Olympics Games­the first instance of significant partic­ipation outside of the U.S. and Canada. 
August, 1970 
150,000 Special Olympians and 65,000 volunteers are involved in more than 1,400 Local and Area meets. All states hold Special Olympics Games. 
December, 1971 
U.S. Olympic Committee gives Special OLympics official approval as one of only two organizations entitled to use the name "Olympics." 
June, 1972 
Jean Claude Killy, world champion skier, welcomes 1,500 young French August, 1972 
Third International Games took place on the campus of University of Califor­nia at Los Angeles with 2,500 partici­pants. Elree Bivens sets mile record of 4 minutes and 48 seconds. Texas team sets 440-relay mark of 53 seconds. 
April, 1973 
ABC-TV broadcasts nationwide seg­ment covering Special Olympics Games on Wide World of Sports. 
June, 1973 
Pierre Mazeaud, French Minister of Youth and Sports, attends French Spe­cial Olympics Games. Spirit and courage of athletes move him on the spot to offer six silver cups as trophies. 
January, 1974 
More than 300,000 childrenn and adults now active in Special Olympics year­round, including competing in 15,000 Local meets and Games. 
April, 1974 
Kyle Roter, Jr., winner of the ABC Su­perstars Competition contributes $5,000 of his prize money to Special Olympics. 
June, 1974 
National Hockey League hosts third Floor Hockey Tournament in Winnipeg. Philadelphia team wins Little Stanly Cup. Team from St. Louis captures Clarence Campbell Bowl. 
American Basketball Association cooperate to sponsor the National Spe­cial Olympics Basketball Program, in­cluding both team play and Run, Dribble and Shoot competition. 
February, 1975 
Winner of second Superstars Compe­tion, O.J. Simpson, contributes $5,000 of his prize money to Special Olympics following the lead set by Kyle Rote, Jr. 
March, 1975 
First Presidential Premire for Special Olympics features Barbra Streisand in "Funny Lady." 10 million Americans see TV special featuring President Ford, Muhammad Ali, Barbra Streisand, David Frost, Frank Gifford and Special Olympics athletes. 
March-April, 1975 
3,182 Noncommissioned Officers run from Washington, D.C. to Los Angeles, California, non-stop in a 3,182 mile marathon for Special Olympics. Hundreds of high school and college track and cross country teams , jogging associations running clubs, and con­cerned volunteers join to help raise funds to send athletes to the Fourth In­ternational Special Olympics Games. 
April, 1975 
Mexican athletes compete for the first time in a Special Olympics event in Nogales, Arizona. 
September, 1975 -August, 1976 
To everyone who goes the distance every day, A'I&T Long Distance Gift Certificates salutes you! 
AT&T is proud to be a sponsor ofthe 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games. And we'll continue to support the year-round efforts of Special Olympics with a contribution for every $25 gift pack ofAT&T Long Distance Gift Certificates ATs.T purchased. To order, calll 800 GIFTATt The right choice. 



Milestones '63-'86 
International expansion occurs from the impetus of 1975 International Games. New programs start in Hong Kong, the Bahamas, Honduras, Okinawa and other countries. 
February, 1977 
First International Winter Special Olympics Games bring over 500 ath­letes to Steamboat Springs, Colorado, to take part in training and competition in skiiing and skating. CBS, ABC, an NBC TV all cover event. 
March, 1977 
Grey Advertising volunteers to serve as public service advertising agency for Special Olympics internationally. 
July, 1977 
Participation in Special Olympics climbs to over 700,000 with increased number of adult participants. 19 countries now have Special Olympics programs. 
August, 1977 
Bruce Jenner, winner of the 1976 Olym­pic Decathlon, becomes Head Coach of Special Olympics Track and Field ac­tivities. 
September, 1977 
Special Olympics launches worldwide soccer program with Pele and Kyle Rote, Jr., as Head Coaches and spon­sorship by North American Soccer League. 
November, 1977 
Governor Carey, Eunice Kennedy Shriver and Dr. Albert Brown announce award of Fifth INternational Summer Special Olympics Games in August, 1979 to the State University of New York at Brockport. 
December, 1978 
Second Presidential Premiere for Spe­cial Olympics features ''Superman, The Movie," with Christopher Reeve. Superman also serves as Special Olym­pics Head Coach for Volunteers. Eleven Secial Olympians receive the "Spirit of Special Olympics Awards" given to those athletes who best exemplify the qualities of skill, courage, sharing and joy, which comprise the spirit of Spe­cial Olympics. 
April, 1979 
At the Eighth annual Sports Luncheon, Special Olympics presents the "Spirit of Special Olympics Award" to Rocky Bleier of the Pittsburgh Steelers. the first athlete other than a special olym­pian to be honored. 
July, 1979 
Special Olympics Commemorative Stamp is unveiled in a ceremony at the White House. 
August, 1979 
Fifth International Summer Special Olympics Games take place at the State University of New York at Brockport with 3,500 athletes participating from every state in the U.S. and more than 20 countries. ABC TV broadcasts the event on Wide World of Sports. 
July, 1980 
Eric Heiden, winner of five Olympic gold medals, becomes Head Coach of 1981 International Winter Special Olympics Games scheduled for March 8-13, 1981, at the Village at Smuggler's Notch and Stowe, Vermont. 
March, 1981 
Second International Winter Special Olympics Games held at the Village of Smuggler's Notch and Stowe, Vermont, for over 600 alpine and cross country skiers and ice skaters. Turner Broad­casting System produces a one hour special featuring Special Olympics ath­letes. 
June, 1981 
"Super'man II" premieres in London, Washington and New York to raise large sums of money for Special Olym­pics and give the program extraordi­nary publicity. Vice President Bush hosts reception for 800 guests of Special Olympics at his home. 
July, 1981 
At the Director's Conference in Wash­ington D.C., the Directors unanimously agree to launch a worldwide effort to recruit, train, and certify Special Olym­pics coaches. Special Olympics Inc., announces that Sports Skills Instruc­tional Program Guides will be prepared for each Official Special Olympics Sport. 
November, 1981 
Aerobic Dancing by Jacki Sorensen and the Special Olympics Organization join in conducting 117 Aerobic Danceathons which raise more than $4 million for Special Olympics. 
January, 1982 
"The Kid from Nowhere", an NBC movie on prime-time television star­ring Susan St. James, Beau Bridges. Loretta Swit and Special Olympian Ricky Wittman, is seen by 34 million people throughout the United States and Canada as Procter and Gamble and Special Olympics launch their second combined production. 
July, 1982 
At the Director's Conference in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, final plans are ap­proved for the 1983 International Sum­mer Special Olympics Games. More than 40 countries commit to send par­ticipants. ABC TV contracts to cover the Games. 
November, 1982 
Park City, Utah, is selected as the site of the 1985 International Winter Special Olympics Games. 
December, 1982 
Number of Special Olympics programs worldwide reaches 50, with all con­tinents represented. 
January, 1983 
35 million Americans see the repeat telecast of "The Kid From Nowhere" TV movie as the kick-off of the third annual Procter and Gamble Special Olympics promotion-the largest of its kind ever conducted. 
February, 1983 
Number of Special Olympics coaches trained through Special Olympics Training Schools tops 25,000. 
June, 1983 
Third Presidential Premiere for Spe­
see MILE page 12 
THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS IS PROUD TO BE PART OF AWINNING TEAM. The Knights of Columbus is proud to be part of the That's why the Knights' donated 21 Special Olympics and the team of heroic athletes million man-hours to community who are participating. service and made $67 million worth of charitable disbursements last year.We're proud to have coordinated the volunteer ($11.3 million of that total benefitted involvement of nearly 5,000 K of C members ... programs for mentallyretarded citizens.) to have contributed a quarter million dollars as a Principal Sponsor ... to have arranged It's why the Knights received the housing in the South Bend area for President's Volunteer Action Award from athletes' families ... and to have President Reagan for "Mobilization of recruited more than 1,000 volun-Volunteers." teers for the opening ceremonies of the '87 Games. We're also And it's why we're proud to be partpleased to have provided the of the Special Olympics. It's good to printing of 25,000 copies of play on a winning team. a commemorative poster by noted ·artist John L. ; Thre~. ~ Why are the Knights of Columbus doing all this? Because we believe volunteers make a big difference in this world. The Knights of Columbus is a Catholic, family, fraternal benefit society with 1.4 million dues-paying members worldwide.  

r-
l The Observer 
) 
\ 
Mile
\ 
\ continued from page 11 
cia! Olympics features "Superman III" 
with Christopher Reeve. President ~ Reagan hosts reception on White House \ Lawn. 
~ 
\ July, 1983
\ 
Sixth International Summer Special
~ 
Olympics Games take place at
\ 
Louisiana State University in Baton
\ 
\ Rouge, Louisiana, before a crowd of 
\ over 60,000 people. 4,000 athletes from every state and over 50 countries par­ticipated. ABC-TV broadcasts the Games on Wide World of Sports. 
January, 1985 
I 
The 1987 International Special Olym­pics Committee lays plans for the up­coming Summer Special Olympic Games to be held at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. The '87 Games are destined to be the largest event to date, with more than 4,500 athletes representing at least 60 countries, 60,000 spectators in atten­dance at the Opening and Closing Ceremonies. 
August, 1986 
World Champion Chicago Bears and Buffalo Bills play final pre-season game on behalf of the 1987 International Games. Bears edge Bills, 31-17, and combine to raise over $200,000. September, 1986 

At annual sports awards luncheon in New York City, Eunice Kennedy Shriver unveiled new theme of VII Olympiad as "Special Olympics Uni­ting the World" before 300 celebrities, dignitaries and selected award winners 
\ and guests at the United Nations. 
I 
\ 

A coach's support of an athlete may pay off in rewarding ways: unforget­
~ 
l \ 
I 
l ~ 
~ 
i \ ~ 
\ 
( 
l \
I 
l
i 
~ 


THE EXCITEMENT, DRAMA AND 
EMOTION OF THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS WILL BE CAPTORED BY THE PEOPLE OF WSBT-lV. 
WATCH FOR OUR SPECIAL REPORTS 

1llf PREVIEW: Saturday 6 PM(7 Michigan) 
Wrap up Monday thru Thursday\Ill Reports 10:30 PM. ( 11 :30 Michigan)-• REVIEW: FRIDAY 10:30
TM 
(11:30 Michigan)
S P E C I A l 




WSBT-TV
OlYMPICS 
GAMES South Bend 


Olympic Town to offer games and exhibits 
By MATT SITZER Town. 
Observer staff Situated on Gold field, near the Ath­letic and Convocation Center, Olympic When not participating in sporting Town will offer a wide range of inter­events at the International Summer esting exhibits, activities and enter­
Special Olympic Games, the athletes tainment throughout the week. and their coaches will have the unique Says Olympic Town co-chairpersonopportunity to visit a fun and exciting Michele Dobski, "We like to think of recreation center called Olympic (Olympic Town) as being a multi-
The long jump is one of the competi­tions in the Athletics division, which in­
activity recreational area for althletes, a place they can come to relax when they're not competing --sort of like a mini-Disneyworld." 
Activities at Olympic Town will be divided into three main areas: par­ticipatory arts and crafts, carnival­type games, and displays and demonstrations. 
eludes other track and field events like relay running. 
coaches who frequent Olympic Town 
every day need not worry about ever 
becoming bored. "What we're attempt­
ing to do, particularly in the display 
area, is to rotate a lot of the exhibits 
and some activities in order to keep it 
fresh and to have some variety," 
Dobski said. 
Working closely with Dobski in the organization of Olympic Town are co­chairperson Ann Lagomarcino and steering committee representative Flo Whiteford, as well as a number of sub­committee chairpersons and volun­teers. Also, a number of local busi­nesses have contibuted a great deal. "They are really making the differ­ence," Dobski said. 
Through the efforts of community volunteers and a dedicated organizing committee, Olympic Town promises to be a great asset to the International Summer Special Olympic Games. It will, no doubt, leave a lasting impres­sion in the hearts of these very special athletes. 
Some of the arts and crafts activities include making friendship necklaces, wire j~welry, and mosaics, as well as ceramics, weaving, and macrame. 
The games area will consist of a va­riety of participatory and carnival-type games as well as the ever-present "electronic machines." Olympians will have the opportunity to try their hand at games like the "ring toss" and the "wishing well" and then stroll over to other challenges like the "baseball throw" and miniature golf. 
Featured in the displays area will be a Hoosier or heartland exhibit. "This exhibit will consist of a lot of things from Indiana's history and culture," said Dobski. "Some of the things fea­tured in the exhibit are an Amish cul­tural demonstration, Indian artifacts, 4-H farm animals, and quite a few his­torical displays." 
' 



The 
Olympians, Coaches, & Family to 
1987 International Special Olympics 
Unique Sandwich Menu:  Soaps, Salads, Appetizers, Desserts Beer aad Wiae  
•Italian sausage •Italian meatball  •Gyros • Croissants  CasaaiAbnospbere PLUS:  
• Beef and company  •Old Chicago  FootbaU Catering {TaUgaters)  
• and many more!  3 foot or 6 foot Sandwiches Meat aad Cheese Trays  
Special Boxed Laacbes  

Large Screen Satellite TV 
University Center 6502 Grape Road Mishawaka 277-7273 
Mon-Thurs 11:30-10:00 Fri-Sat 11 :30-11 :00 Sunday 12:00-10:00 
The Observer Special Olympics Premiere Issue -page 14 

Special Olympic torch to light ceremony 
By MATT SITZER Olympics. Citizens sporting Final Leg the last Final Leg runner to the Special letes," said Miles. "It is their night to Observer Staff T-shirts will accompany the officers Olympian who will actually carry it into be in the spotlight, not ours. through their respective cities, running the stadium. "The officers will provide the runner 
The Special Olympics Flame will be behind the Flame, or lining the streets Kirk Miles, director of Special Proj­with an a human alley, or honor guard, carried 198 miles from Soldier Field, for the parade-like processions. ects International, said he thinks it's to mark his entrance into the stadium," Chicago to Notre Dame Stadium begin­On August 2, the Flame will reach fitting the Torch ultimately will be Miles said. ning on July 30. South Bend and Notre Dame. There, it passed off to an athlete. "We are just happy to have been able 
The Flame will pass through 21 com­will be passed on to a Special Olympian "What we are doing is all for the ath-to help make it possible," he added. munities before its arrival in South who will use it to light the Olympic Bend. cauldron during the Opening 
The Final Leg Torch Run, conducted Ceremonies of the Games. ABC to air Prime Time by law enforcement officers from The idea for the Torch Run was con­across the country, will be preceded by ceived in 1981 by Wichita, Kansas an 11 a.m. kick-off ceremony at Soldier Police Chief Richard Lamunyon. 
special of Games opening
Field, the site of the first International Lamunyon saw the need for increased Summer Special Olympic Games in awareness and financial support for Observer Staff Report Opening Ceremonies" is Robert 
1968. Special Olympics. Lamunyon saw in­Shriver, an attorney and business ex­volvement in the program gave law en­Singer Whitney Houston and Boston ecutive in New York City. His produc­
forcement officers an opportunity to Pops conductor John Williams will star tion team includes producerldirector grow closer to their community and to in a two-hour entertainment special en­Jeff Margolis, whose credits include titled "The Special Olympics Opening "Happy Birthday, Hollywood," which
its mentally retarded citizens."What we are doing is In 1984, the highly successful Wichita Ceremonies," which will be televised was televised two months ago on ABC, 
Torch Run program was presented to on the ABC Television Network on Mon­the Emmy A wards Show, and the all for the athletes. It the International Association of Police day, August 3, from 9 to 11 p.m. EDT. Country Music Awards Show; producer Chiefs and met overwhelming support. The extravaganza, actually held on Lee Miller, whose work includes "The 
Later, the program expanded to seven August 2, will take place before a Missles of October"; and writer Steve is their night to be in capacity crowd of 60,000 people in Notre Pouliot, who won an Emmy award for
states, eventually gaining the sponsor­
ship of the Armour Food Company. Dame Stadium and will formally open producing and writing the "Sesamethe spotlight." the VII International Summer Special Street Special." 
In 1987, torch runs were conducted in Olympic Games. The Summer Games, every state in the U.S., the District of held on the campuses of Notre Dame ABC's Wide World of Sports, which Columbia, and nine countries. This and Saint Mary's, will play hpst to more has devoted a segment to each Inter­enormous expansion has vaulted the than 4,700 mentally retarded athletes national Summer Special Olympic 
During the ceremony, law enforce­program to the top of the list of inter­from 72 countries. Games since 1975, will this year dedi­ment officers from every U.S. state and national grass-roots fundraising In making the formal announcement cate its entire 90-minute program on territory as well as nine foreign campaigns. in New York City, on June 16, Special August 15, 1987, to-the Games at South countries will carry individual torches This year, 30,000 officers will have Olympics International President R. Bend. As he has been in the past, vet­
to light a Special Olympic cauldron, run over 26,000 miles--roughly, the dis­Sargent Shriver pointed out that, "This eran sportscaster Frank Gifford will be from which a single flame will be taken tance around the earth's equator --in television program will be the first time the host of the Wide World of Sports to South Bend. support of Special Olympics. The offi­any event involving athletic competi­Show. Gifford will also appear on the 
The actual Torch Run will begin at cers, along with contributing commun­tion for any group of handicapped Opening Ceremonies show. noon, with one officer carrying the Spe­ities, businesses, and individuals, will citizens will have been on prime time The ABC special will be guided by cial Olympics Flame for one portion of raise an estimated $2.5 million for Spe­television. " the assistance of the 1987 ISSOG Com­the Final Leg, the last lap of the torch's cial Olympics. The special also marks the inaugural mittee. Donna Brown, director of spe­
journey. All of their efforts for 1987 will cul­effort of Special Olympics Productions, cial events. and Peggy Soderberg, 
Each community the torch passes minate at Notre Dame Stadium on the Inc., the entertainment arm of Special opening ceremonies coordinator, will through will "adopt these cops" along night of August 2, as the Special Olym­Olympics International. Executive enlist the services of 1,500 volunteers with raising funds in benefit of Special pic Torch is passed from the hand of Producer for "The Special Olympics for the August 2 spectacle. 

Eckrich Deli Meats by the Pound Sinai ~ Kosher Meats by the Pound 
Bologna $1.69 *Corned Beef* Pastrami*Roast Beef* Pickle & Pin1ento Loaf $1.89 
* Salami *Turkey*
Minced Sausage Loaf $2.39 Old Fashioned Loaf $2.39 *Any Combination $5.39 lb.* 
Good Thru 8-8-87 Good Thru 8-8-87 
Challenger's Edge 
SKILL And CARE Goes Into Making This Sandwich For You. It Will Bring Lots Of JOY To SHARE With A Friend. 
SPECIAL PRICE $3.87 Ham, Salami, Pepperoni, Ameri­can & Swiss Cheese, Lettuce & Tomato, Mayonnaise & Mustard All On A Special Bun. Comes With A Kosher Pickle And Potatoe Salad. 
Michiana's Original Kosher Delicatessen Your One S cial 01 cs Deli 



.®ill~~~[Q)ffi[M ®~ ~\Y/~[i]lf@ 


Specia.l Olympics Premiere Issue -page 16
The Observer 



.. 1987 International Summer 
'.. 
'·• I 
Special Olympics Games
'tf~lt 
~ 
r 
<.\0.-tl 
I 
f I 
II; 
t.~ 




