------~--­
Religion -page 7 
• 

VOL. XXI, NO. 87 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9,1987 

the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
U.S. Bishops to convene at Saint Mary's 
Special to the Observer 
A delegation of U.S. Catholic bishops to the world bishops' synod on the laity will convene for a pre-synod synthesizing symposium on Saint Mary's campus, June 7-10. 
The meeting will serve as an information-gathering and agenda-focusing session for the world synod to be held this fall in Rome. 
In making the announce­ment, College President William Hickey said, "We con­sider it a privilege that Saint Mary's, with its long history of involvement in lay leadership and its firm commitment to the tradition of the Church, was chosen by the delegation as the site and resource for this meeting." 
Archbishop John May of St. Louis, as the new president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, will head the delegation. He will be accom­panied by the three other delegates elected by the Coun­
cil: Cardinal Joseph Bernadin of Chicago, Archbishop Rem­bert Weakland of Milwaukee and Archbishop Stanley Ott of Baton Rouge. 
The two alternate delegates, Bishop Ricardo Ramirez of Las Cruces, New Mexico, and Bis­hop Raymond Lucker of New Ulm, Minnesota, will also be in attendance. 
A total of 35-40 participants is expected. In addition to the 
see BISHOPS, page 4 

Beware The Observer,.Susan Coene The path to the dome is a stark gray shot out of a horror movie as snow and winds rock the campus Sunday and remind students that winter is still here. 


Bush knew of arms deals, says memo 
Associated Press paper, citing official docu­
ments and knowledgeable 

WASHINGTON -An Israeli sources, said Casey and North official told Vice President traveled to the Middle East and George Bush last July that Central America during a per­deals for the sale of U.S. arms iod from 1984 to 1986 seeking were being sought with Iranian assistance for the rebels. radicals, a secret memo says, -North met several times, in­contradicting claims by Presi­cluding over dinner, with a dent Reagan that the adminis­wealthy Connecticut woman tration dealt only with so-called who bankrolled at least part of moderates. a pro-Contra lobbying drive, 
"We are dealing with the the woman, Barbara most radical elements, ... " the Newington of Greenwich, Con­Israeli told Bush according to n., has acknowledged. The the memorandum, first re­meetings suggest a close link ported in Sunday's editions of between North and the efforts The Washington Post. "They of Mrs. Newington's friend, can deliver ... that's for sure. Carl "Spitz" Channell, to put ... we've learned they can together a costly public rela­deliver and the moderates tions blitz. can't." Channell, through a network 
The memo, written by a Bush of conservative groups he con­aide, acknowledged that Is­trols, financed speaking trips raeli contacts with Iran were by Nicaraguan rebels and a aimed in part at freeing television ad campaign of at Americans held in Lebanon. least $1 million that targeted And it provides a view of a congressional opponents of more active Israeli role than President Reagan's plan to Jerusalem has acknowledged give $100 million in military in the U.S.-Iran arms dealings. and other aid to the Contras. 
Stephen Hart, a spokesman The source of the funding has for Bush, would not comment come into question, with con­on the memo beyond ack­gressional and federal inves­nowledging that it is authentic. tigators examining a report in 
In other news related to the the Lowell (Mass.) Sun that sale of U.S. arms to Israel and North provided profits from the diversion of the proceeds to Iranian arms sales for the cam­the Nicaraguan Contra rebels: paign. 
-William Casey, the former -Robert McFarlane, director of the CIA, was closely Reagan's former national se­involved with Lt. Col. Oliver curity adviser, was able to North, the fired National Se­receive classified messages curity Council adviser, in ef­from the White House with a forts to supply military help to secure telephone hookup and the Contras while such assis­computer in his home for a tance was banned by Congress, year after leaving his job, The according to a report in Sun­Baltimore Sun reported Sun­day's Miami Herald. The news-day. 
Week's events to promote awareness of Third World 
By ERIC HOLLOWAY 
News Staff 
Third World Awareness Week will be highlighted by ac­tivities sponsored by several campus organizations devoted to bring attention to the prob­lems facing underdeveloped nations. 
The events, which started Sunday, include lectures by faculty and guests, a fundraiser by campus bands to be held in Theodore's, a showing of the movie "Gandhi," a "pena" gather­ing, and a First-Third World dinner. 
The Overseas Development Network is sponsoring many activities along with the World Hunger Coalition, the Anti­Apartheid Network, the Stu­dent Organization for, Latin Amercia, Women United for Peace and Justice, and CILA. 
"We feel there is a two-fold purpose to this week," said Sophia Twarog of the ODN. "The first, as the name im­plies, is to create an aware­ness. The second purpose is to create a sense of unity between the different groups with the same objectives." 
The ODN said that last year's Third World Awareness Week was a success, and ODN hopes it will become an annual event. The members of the groups in­volved said there is a definite need to open the eyes of the stu­dents to the reality that exists in poverty-stricken nations. 
"We need a week like this to shake us out of our com­placency in this ivory tower and to become aware of people around the world who's needs are not fullfilled," said Anti­Apartheid Network Chairper­son Margarita Rose. 
• 
Tonight at Theodore's "Vatican III" and "Smoke From Nowhere" will perform from 9 p.m. -1 a.m. ODN is sponsoring the event. There is an admission charge. 

• 
Tuesday Feb. 10 the Kellogg Brown Bag Seminar presents Prof. Enrique Dussell who will 


see AWARENESS, page 3 

Ebey named as Malloy's assistant 
By ELIZABETH CORNWELL Staff Reporter 
Father Carl Ebey, a Notre Dame assistant professor of accountancy, has been named executive assistant to the University's president-elect, Father Ed­ward Malloy. Malloy said the appointment was effec­tive at the end of the spring semester. 
Ebey will replace Father William Beauchamp, the ex­ecutive assistant to Univer­sity President Father Theodore Hesburgh, when Beauchamp assumes the vice-presidency of the Uni­versity in May. 
Ebey's duties will include advising the president in dif­ficult situations, assisting with special projects, and occasionally serving as a representative for the pres­ident, according to Malloy. Ebey will also continue to teach. 
"The specifics of the job depend on the various things that emerge ... the job has a general description that doesn't sound like much, but what it really means is that he'll be busy all the time," Malloy said. 

Father Carl Ebey 
Ebey commented on the appointment, "I'll be a staff assistant, to be used at his pleasure. My role will be to help Father Malloy establish his plans and programs for this University. I'm excited to be able to do it -I think this is an exciting time to be working for the University. I admire Father Malloy very much. I've worked with him for eight years, knew him in the seminary." 
Ebey was chosen on the basis of his past accomplish­ments, according to Malloy. "Why did I choose Carl? I have tremendous confidence in his judgement. He's held a responsible position in our community for the past five years as the treasurer for the Indiana Province. Finally--he's a very good friend," Malloy said. 
Ebey, 46, received an ac­counting degree from Notre Dame in 1962, an M.A. in Theology from Holy Cross College, Washington D.C., in 1968, an M.B.A. from Notre Dame in 1972, and a D.B.A. from Indiana University in 1980. He was ordained in 1972 and has served as both stew­ard and treasurer for the In­diana Province of the Con­gregation of the Holy Cross. 
Ebey was on the internal auditing staff of the Univer­sity from 1972 to 1975 and director of student accounts from 1975 to 1977. He joined the Department of Accoun­tancy in 1980. 

Monday, February 9,1987-page 2 
In Brief 
"Wheel of Fortune" personality Vanna White will be the subject of a Playboy magazine pictorial in the May issue, a Playboy spokeswoman said Sunday. "I haven't seen the pictures yet because I've been out of town, but I can assure you they will be tasteful, quality shots," said Ms. Radomski, Playboy's director of corporate commu­nications. Ms. Radomski said she understood Ms. White posed in lingerie for several of the pictures. -Associated Press 
A minister handed out condoms to his congregation at Sunday's service to dramatize the need for measures to stop the spread of the deadly disease AIDS. "We should be having a dialogue about these issues, shouldn't we? But most of us are still squeamish " the Rev. Carl Titchener told about 250 people who pack~d the ~nitarian Universalist Church of Amherst. Acknowledg­mg that some people might call his dramatization a gim­mick, Titchener said he hoped to make people more aware about AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. ­
Associated Press 

Prison inmates earn better grades than traditional college students, says James Adams, a Talladega College professor who heads a degree program at the Federal ~orrect.ional Institution in Talladega. "Many tried to get nch qmck. But now they feel an education is the way to (succeed)," said Adams. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society will host an important financial aid meeting tonight at 7 in room 104 O'Shaughnessy. Dean McLean of the Notre Dame law school and Tina Cunningham from the financial aid office will give brief presentations. A question and answer session will follow. -The Observer 
"Notre Dame In Review," WSND's weekly news program, will hold a meeting for interested newswriters Tuesday at 4 p.m. at the WSND station in the tower behind the clock of O'Shaughnessy. For more infor­mation contact Tara Cosacchi at 283-2696 or Michael Tarm at 287-4869. -The Observer 
The Conviser-Miller CPA review course will hold its first session Tuesday at 6 p.m. at the Jamison Inn Bed and Breakfast located across from the Linebacker and Kings Cellar. For more information contact Tom at 283-1702 or Mike Duffy at 1-800-621-0498. -The Observer 
''The Aesthetics of Estrangement,'' the first in a series of Ward-Phillips lectures, will be presented today at 4:30 in room 222 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
Applications for the position of editor-in-chief of The Observer for the 1987-88 school year are being ac­cepted at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFor­tune. Questions should be directed to Joe Murphy. Appli­cations are due by February 12 at 5:00p.m.-The Observer 

Weather 
Reason can prevail if leaders talk instead of shout 
We exchanged war stories, she and I. 
For a brief moment, all of the letters -from God or at least people who claim to be God, from prisoners on death row and the people who want to keep them there, from pacifists and warmongers, from liberals and conserva­tives, and from the famous and fanatical -all blurred into one, one experience unlike anyth­ing we had anticipated. 
She and I are two windburned but enthusiastic survivors of the many cross-currents which an editor of a small college newspaper must face. 
We get junk mail, hate mail and crazy mail. 
She is a more well-known and controversial editor than I and therefore gets more mail. But we get more than just letters. 
She laughed mildly as she recounted what it is like when she goes into class at the beginning of each semsester. Some of her classmates in­variably mutter, "Oh, no -she's in here." 
Her newspaper is The Dartmouth Review. It's extremely conservative and outspoken ori a campus that generally is not either. 
She said some of the students hate her. Pro­fessors, from time to time, ridicule her. She is the butt of many private and public jokes. 
Her only crime, she said, is that she is a con­servative at Dartmouth and has the courage to put her thoughts to print. 
The impression she gave me was the majority of the established community was not open to her and her collegues' ideas. Rather than debate in a reasonable fashion the many issues at hand, people become vicious and personal in their attacks. 
What seems to be true at Dartmouth is some­times true here. Often, personalities and rhet­oric cloud the issues. People who claim to have open minds do not. 
Rather than debate the merits of a point, people make comments in public and in print which are untrue, unwise, and unneccessary to the general debate at hand. 
Revenge, more often than not, replaces dis­cussion. 
History, though, does not have to repeat itself. 
One week ago today, the Notre Dame Student Senate rejected a call to discuss placing The Observer under some form of advisory board in which student government money would be spent reviewing the newspaper's status. 
The Observer's history is filled with conflicts between student government leaders and the newspaper's general board. 
Few students understand or care about such political maneuvering. Many of the comments made back and forth are worthy of a good laugh; however, in a very rE!al sense everyone 

Joe Murphy 
Editor-in-Chief 

loses as a result of the periodic battles. 
Rather than worry about running the news­paper or student government, the leaders have to decide how to respond to the latest charge of being called a buffoon by the opposing side. 
Last spring, I met with Jeanne Heller and Mike Switek and promised The Observer would try to be fair in its actions, as well as in its rhetoric. We sought better avenues of commu­nication to increase our understanding of each others' roles and perspectives. 
The result has been that everyone has gotten along much better, and there has been more talking than shouting between us. 
In light of our mutual history of conflict, the senate's vote to table the resolution still comes as a surprise. Had the resolution passed, a crisis in communication and relations between The Observer and student leaders could have begun. 
The Student Senate recognized the need for our continued editorial independence. We responded by ackowledging our responsibility to provide fair and professional coverage. All of which signals that, for the moment, some of the past mistakes have been noted and efforts to avoid repeating them have been to some degree successful. 
In particular, I would like to publicly thank Mike Switek and Don Montanaro for defending the concept of a free campus press when no one would have faulted them for not doing so. After the vote to close discussion, I was glad reason prevailed and that I was the editor at Notre Dame, and not at Dartmouth. 






LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
IFRIDAV, FEBRUARY 13 ATTHEACC 
DEADLINE FOR OLYMPIC SPORT ENTRIES IS 



TODAY 
SEE YOUR HALL REP SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
The Observer Monday, February 9,1987-page 3 
Kidnappers deliver new ultimatum on hostage videotape 

Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -An American hostage said in a videotape dropped off by his kidnappers Sunday that he and three other men, including two Americans, will be killed if Is­rael fails to release 400 Arab prisoners within 24 hours. 
A six-minute videotape showing Boston native Alann Steen, 47, was delivered to a Western news agency in the name of Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine, which kidnapped Steen and three others from the campus of Beirut University College on Jan. 24. 
The group's other hostages are Robert Polhill, 53, of New York City; Jesse Turner, 39, of Boise, Idaho; and Mithilesh­war Singh, 60, a native of India and resident alien in the United States. 
Israel indicated Sunday it was willing to discuss the swap of an Israeli airman missing in Lebanon for the release of the 400 Arab prisoners, a proposal advanced Saturday by Nabih Berri, head of the main Shiite Amal militia and Lebanon's justice minister. 
However, Israeli officials said in Jerusalem they would not respond to an ultimatum and would not conduct such talks in public. 
Under Berri's proposal, all 



Awareness 
continued from page 1 
speak on "Populism and Cat­holicism in Latin America." The lecture will be from 12 -1: 15 
p.m. in 131 Decio. 
• 
That evening SOLA and ODN will sponsor a pena, which is a Latin American party, from 7 -11 in the Center for Social Con­cerns coffeehouse. There will be entertainment and Latin American cuisine. 

• 
Father David Burrell will lead an informal discussion on "Development Issues in Bangladesh" on Wednesday Feb. 11. The talk will begin at 8 p.m. in the esc coffeehouse, and the sponsors are ODN and Women United for Peace and Justice. 

• 
A Firstlfhird World dinner will be served on Thursday 


Feb. 12 at 5 p.m. in the CSC coffeehouse. A small, lucky percentage will receive steak and the majority will receive a simple meal of rice. This is to symbolize the ratio of well-fed people to those who are mal­nourished in the world. Specific dinners will be assigned accor­ding to ticket color. World Hunger Coalition, ODN, and CILA, the Community for the Lay Apostulate, are the spon­sors. Tickets go on sale Wed­nesday. 
• Following the dinner at 7, Prof. David Ruccio will lead an informal discussion on ''The Economies of the United States and Latin America: Current Crisis and Future Prospect." Prof. Ruccio has been conduct­ing research on the national debts of countries and how these debts affect the United States. 
• 
"Ghandi" will be shown in the esc multi-purpose room on Friday Feb. 13 at 6:30p.m. Ad­mission is free and ODN is the sponsor. 

• 
Prof. Kwan Kim will lead an informal discussion on ''The External Debt in Sub-Saharan Africa: Issues and Perspec­tives" on Saturday Feb. 14. The talk will be in the Library lounge from 1 -2:30p.m. and is sponsored by ODN and the Anti-Apartheid Network. 

• 
Third World Awareness Week ends Sunday Feb. 15 when Prof. Kahlil Maetta speaks about "The Lebanon Crisis" and pro­vides commentary on the Notre Dame ODN development proj­ect in Lebanon. ODN is the sponsor and the discussion will take place in the Library lounge at 4 p.m. 



Black History: Still Being Made 
The "Golden Thirteen"; The first black Naval officers, commissioned in 1944. 
40 years ago, history was made when thirteen black men became Naval officers. These men have carried on a tradition of excellence, achievement, and unparalleled opportunity. 
That opportunity is still available today, to those who accept the challenge. 
Where They Are Today: 
After successful careers as Naval officers, Golden Thirteen members can now be found in many professions: 
• 
Appellate Court Justice • Real Estate Broker 

• 
Founder and President of an ar­• Engineering Advisor to a Board chitectural engineering firm. of Education 

• 
Physician • Professional Model 

• 
College Professor • Director of Human Resources 


You Can Join Them ... As One of Tomorrow's Leaders. 
Find out more about the opportunities that await you. Naval Officers will be on campus February 18-l~ Sign up at the Placement Office to talk with them personallY about your future, or call: 256-1455 

foreign hostages also would be released in Lebanon by the various extremist groups hold­ing them. 
Berri, meanwhile, backed away Sunday from an earlier weekend statement that Anglican Church hostage­negotiator Terry Waite would be freed by Monday, now saying the release would take more time. Waite has been mis­sing since Jan. 20. 
A weary-looking Steen, reading from a statement in a monotone, said on Sunday's videotape: "if our lives are im­portant to America, it must or­der Israel to release the 400 Palestinians as soon as possible -that is, Monday as a maximum. 
"We also tell America that if it commits any stupidity, we will be prone to be killed. Be­sides, Americans in the whole world will be the victims of our administration's stupidity. 
~rilfay, ~e6ruary 13, 1987 
10 pm to2 am at tfu 'l(no([wootf Country C!u6 -'Music 6y 'Vatican fll­

Purclia.se tick!ts at tiie Junior Class Office-2nd:J(oor La~ortune between 'Monday, ~e6ruary 9, ana~rilfay, ~e6ruary 13, 
from 2-5pm. -'TJCk!ts: $8.00 


Ambassador Arkady Shevchenko 
''A View from the Kremlin'' 
Seats $2 -tix available at the Cellar in the basement of LaFortune today & tommorrow! 
Tues., Feb. 10 at ~ pwm h"
1n as In ton Hall 



ND AVE APTS. 
arly Bird Specia 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completelyfurnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount Call 234-6647 by Pinkerton Security Agency 



Bennett claims colleges fail because so many drop out 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Education Secretary William Bennett, defending plans to make major budget cuts in higher educa­tion, claims that colleges are unproductive because half of all college students drop out. 
But educators call his criticisms misleading and in­appropriate, and there appear to be no statistics that entirely support Bennett's claim. 
"We are concerned about productivity. Almost half the students who enter four-year programs ... do not complete those four-year programs. We think that's a problem," Ben­nett told a House Appropria­tions subcommittee last Wed­nesday. 
A day earlier, after making the same point to the House Budget Committee, he asked, "What kind of movie is it we're running that people want to leave halfway through?" 
An incomplete analysis by the department's Office of Edu­cational Research and Im­provement indicates that 50 percent to 60 percent of students who started four-year programs in 1980 graduated at the end of four years, with others presumably finishing their degrees later. 
A consultant hired to analyze the same data found that 42 percent of students who started two-and four-year programs in 


Bishops
continuedfrom page 1 
delegates and their alternates, the meeting at Saint Mary's will include the episcopal mem­bers of the U.S. Bishops' Com­mittee on the Laity, prior heads of that committee and invited lay men and women. 
According to Doris Donnelly, co-director of the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's and coordinator of the event, the agenda for the meeting has yet to be set, but likely topics would include the role of wo­men in a renewed and renewing Church, the theological educa­tion and spiritual formation of the laity and the collaboration between the laity and clergy in society. 
Donnelly said the sympo­sium will provide the bishop­delegates with information and the opportunity to focus their own agenda in determining the message they will take to the world synod later this year. 
For thisValentine's Day, visit The Country Harvester and see what interesting gift ideas we have for your Valentine......such as: • 
Decorated heart-shaped baskets and Decorated baskets filled with delicious chocolate hearts. 

Hours: Mon. -Fri. : 77:3Q-6:30 Sot...;Sun.: 72:00-5:00 
Located in the basement of LaFortune 
1980 finished them in four years -compared with 51 percent in 1976. And 26 percent had dropped out in 1984 compared with 19 percent in 1976. 
Jay Noel, a program analyst in the department's planning and evaluation service, said those numbers show a "deterioration of college atten­dance, graduation and comple­tion" that concern Bennett. 
However, Noel did not have numbers just for the four-year programs Bennett mentioned to Congress. 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
1 


················­

/STEAMBOAT SKI TRIP•• 
+.g...q,.q,~sp rea~<Q><Q><b~• 
•t •• 
t $100 Deposit Feb 12 • 
a Call Jeff 3660 or Joe 1190 •
-................ 

IIi 

; 
APPhoto 
A snow sculpture of Buddha towers over spec-Festival in this city on the northern Japanese tators in a preview of the 38th Sapporo Snow island of Hokkaido. 



LEGAL AID 
offers Free legal counseling to all N.D. students, faculty & staff. Call 239-7795 
or visit downstairs N.D. Law School 





PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Prograrns 


FRANCE WEST AFRICA ITALY GREAT BRITAIN JAPAN NEW YORK 
International programs are offered for students. teachers and working professionals. Courses include: archaeology; architectural history; art history; clay and textile design; decorative arts: drawing; fashion; graphic design; painting and photography. Undergraduate and graduate credits are available to qualified participants. For more information, please mail the coupon below or call the Parsons Office of Special Programs: (212) 741-8975. 
Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs 66 Fifth Avenue. New York. N.Y. 10011 
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer Programs. 
Name 
Address ________________ City ___ State ___Zip ____ 


\Tie\Y~_O_i_n_t____________
Mon-day,F-ebrua-ry9,1-987-p-age5 
I 
Holy Cross Associate gains valuable experience 1 I 
During the fall and spring of my senior year at Notre Dame, running furiously from classes to the basement of the Library for interviews, dodging mud puddles, sinking into snow banks with high heels, I found myself terribly apprehensive. I was not at peace with myself, not content with where my life seemed to be going. Something was missing. Ideas of spending a year in volunteer service came in and out of my head, but time and time again, I would be talked out of it. "Are you crazy?" friends asked. 
Patty Cisle 
guest column 
Following that "something" inside which would not keep quiet (more ap­propriately described by Fr. John Dunne as "the heart's desire"), I looked more seriously at volunteer pro­grams, primarily at the Holy Cross As­sociates and the Jesuit Volunteer Corps. 
living, simple lifestyle and working in lay ministry. I could have a chance to look at our American culture from an­other angle. 
I started the application over the Christmas holidays, all the while knowing this is what I was supposed to be doing. It was a blind leap which I felt extremely safe taking. This con­tentment, though, was on the interior; on the exterior, I was frazzled. It was hard to take a step in the opposite di­rection of my peers and family, a step away from society and norms. But in the norms of Christianity, it was o.k.; I could step freely and feel good about it. 
After being accepted into the Holy Cross Associates program, I was elated. I knew it was what I wanted to do for the next year. In April, I was told that I'd be working at a small Cath­olic high school in Colorado Springs as a guidance counselor for juniors and seniors. From the spring until orienta­tion in July, the reality of my commit­ment began to sink into me. "Uh-oh, now you've got yourself in the position to be 'ruined for life."' What it was going to be like living in community, working without pay, praying together, living simply with one car between six people? Though it scared me down deep, I was excited to begin this chal­lenge. 
On Aug. 5, 1985, we arrived in Colorado Springs. There we were -six college grads (Yuvvies, not Yuppies) with no money, a "beautiful" brown station wagon to share, a house to make "home" for a year, and community ser­vice assignments to be carried out. For two months, I was on top of the world. My work at the hig.h school was reward­ing, I loved my housemates, the Holy Cross community in Cascade (outside of Colorado Springs) was extremely supportive and then the real challenge of Christian community living began. The honeymoon phase was over and the hard realities of every day community life were there. I was tired of having no privacy, never having a car, having no cash to go out with the teachers from school, "neurotically" cleaning the house on Saturdays, and not having the "ideal" Christian community we had set our hearts to forming. What was I doing in Colorado? Was I being ruined? 
But at the same time, the "someth­ing" was speaking to me and telling me I was right where I was supposed to be. The giftedness of others I had dis­covered in my Associate year is what pulled me through those questioning pe­riods. I was surrounded by so many people who really cared -my housemates, the Holy Cross parish of Sacred Heart, the Holy Cross novitiate, the HCA home office, and the staff and students at the high school. So many treasures given to me -things I never dreamed of when first thinking about joining a volunteer group. Walking with people who showed such deep concern and commitment, who weren't afraid to share, to make mistakes, to laugh at themselves. I was being ruined but in the most beautiful of ways. 
In being ruined, I was able to grow and to look beyond myself and into the hearts of others. In my ruined state, and that's exactly how I felt at times, I was able to rebuild, to gain a strength and to better understand my Christian faith. I found out I have a long way to go; but fortunately through my HCA experience, I learned to open myself up and leave room within for growth. Only in doing this, can I remain responsive to the call of faith. I'm glad I listened to that "something" inside. Try it! The possibilities are endless. 
Patty Cisle is a 1985 Notre Dame graduate, a Holy Cross Associate in Colorado Springs 1985-1986, and is pres­ently doing graduate studies in Boston. 


Lowering drinking age would improve policy 
Dear Editor: 
I agree with Mike Wilkins' column that Notre Dame needs to change its alcohol policy. However, I was surprised to find a second year law stu­dent neglecting to address the admin­istration's concern about alcohol related liability. 
Doonesbury 
-
7H8 CALIFORNIA 
5CI.£CTtiJ?
5TA$ TA~ FORCe 
5EI.ECTW
70 PI1IJMOTE 5aF­
FORWHATf
5TEEM! rv~ 8tl3N 
\
5&ECT'eP.' 
I 
The University should not and will not change the policy. That would dis­regard Indiana law; such a change would be irresponsible. Rather than vainly pressuring the administration for change, students should work for appropriate changes in State law. 
The reasons commonly given for the 21 drinking age are to decrease drunk driving and to distance alcohol from minors. The higher drinking age does not directly address either problem. 
70 SER!/8 ON TH£; 
5TU{)YGf?OUP RE:­5MJ?D/ING UN/<5 
~SW-&5­
7U/rl ANlJPERSONAL 
If mandatory jail sentences and-Or license suspensions do not reduce drunk driving sufficiently, then stiffer penalties are in order, not age restric­tions. Should paltry fines not reduce drinking among minors, then stiffer penalties should be levied against the minors' guardians. 
$45 fines for 18, 19, and 20 year-olds in bars solves nothing. People in this age group are not the only drunk drivers nor are they all drunk drivers, 
Garry Trudeau 
1300PSI£, NOT IN SPIRJT.I YOU Ill#?& I'll &T THAT'S IN M&XICO NHATIMPRE5Stl? LA5T 5PR/NG. 7H/3M.
II IhI I 
and they have traditionally been granted the privileges and responsibili­ties of adults. Accordingly, as adults, they should work for lengthier sen­tences for drunk driving, stiffer penalaties for guardians of drinking minors, and a lowering of the drinking age to 18. Only with these changes will Notre Dame ever again have a less restrictive alcohol policy. 
James P. Schilder Sorin Hall 
Quote of the day 
"Poor man wanna be rich, Rich man wanna be king; And a king ain't satisfied, 'Till he rules everything." 
Bruce Springsteen "Badlands" 
Ibe ObserYer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dsme, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ol either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ol the majority ol the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views ol their authors. Column space Is available to all members ol the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Chrlstopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor.......................................... Mark Pankowski 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuei1Tiann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager........................... Anne M. Culligan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark WelmhoH 
Founded November3,1881 

February 9,1987 -page 6 "' 
Accent
-------------~~--/
.
/
Before and after in this week's soaps 

ALL MY CHILDREN: To keep shocked to learn the woman Ross away from her, Natalie is Sarah, Ted's murderer. left Palmer's mansion and Camellia created a situation to moved In with Benny and Don­make Anna think she and na. Ross got mad at Ellen for Duke might still be having a 
suggesting they see a mar­love affair. Coming: Barbara riage counselor. A jeaous needs blood that only Tania Jeremy, thinking Matt was can supply, if she gets the making out with Erica, message in time. threatened him with a gun. GUIDING LIGHT: Rusty was Coming: Jeremy learned of a little uncomfortable, but not -' another rival for Erica's affec­displeased, at the way his re-· tion. latlonship with Mindy seemed 
ANOTHER WORLD: Rachel to be progressing. Chelsea told Mac it was Mitch who and Philip were more than urged her to follow her heart, willing to continue their new 
and her heart led back to Mac. affair in spite of some doubts Reginald learned Peter was on both sides. Coming: Josh Linda's last client. After Linda made what could be a life or wasmurdered, Peter changed death decision. 
were still supposed to be Al­make a decision about com· Steve tried to keep his J)Tt::nri~ leged at this point. I grabbed
mltment. Kelly agonized over I~ toT~~!:'~!ll s lte o Kevin Walsh the phone from her. her confused feellngs <for ' threatS~·' 'ci!<l't;:~'ii:''"······ . 
"Listen, you little zlpperhead,Thomas and her lingering ONe un ro uve: t-
this bra thing is only a phase,feelings for Trey. Coming: . han tol9 O<;Jrlan ~t Dial'l~ 
None of the above 
get it? Leave my little sister Sloane faces an uneasy a SWindler. Asa moved lritdt and her youth alone or I'll be 

Beach Boys Concert 
The Notre Dame Cheerleaden; practice here for a skit which will take place during the Beach Boys Concert. 
Mom... I didn't . 
the clocks In the mansion so KNOTS LANDINO: Anne's that Bridgette could provide presence in Knots Landing him with an alibis. Mary and caused confused feelings for Vince got along much better. both Paige and Mack. Karen T hings change quickly in the Coming: Peter's so-called se­was unable to shake off some 
outside world. cret gives Reginald new ideas. forebodings about Anne's In· 
Oh sure, it all seems pretty
Huence in their lives. Coming: 
gradual in those "As-Soon-As­AS THE WORLD TURNS: Greg gets the Information he The-Hangover-Fades" Sunday Lucinda seemed unaware of needs to act. 
Afternoon phone calls home. 
James Stenbeck's continuing LOVING: Trisha was rushed Somehow "We're thinking of machinations. Lily was upset to the hospital with a near­changing the curtains in yourto think she might be the fatal drug overdose. Gwyn brother's bedroom" seems 
cause of more problems be· later told her that her father more like a betrayal when youtween Iva and Lucinda. had returned and was much get home and find all the furni­Frannie asked some embar­changed. Cabot collapsed and ture in the house changed. 
rassing questions. Coming: Tony. gave him CPR. The "You should see how fast that 
Tonio springs a surprise. storm raged as Eban and house down the street is goingCAPITOL: Angelica felt Lottie took shelter in an aban· up" becomes kind of a denial threatened by Trey's groWing doned house; Eban ·later tried when all the new houses ren­emotional distance. Wally and to attack Lottie who rushed der your street unrecognizable.
Brend realized they had to outlnto Curtis' arm$. Co~lng~ 
prospect. Vernon lnn to let CUnt take 
This is always among my 
over the mansion. Pamela was 
thoughts as I pack to go home. 
DALLAS: J.R. and Bobby also at the Vernon Inn. At the 
What new horror awaits me? 
sent sue Ellen, Pam, John custody hearing; I>octor Larry 
Along with a healthy sense of 
Ross and Christopher to Cali­Woiekadmftted that VIcki mis­
anticipation there also exists a 
fornia to escape B.D. Cal­handled an emergency with 
hesitant dread of the un­
houn's threats. Cliff was fran­little Joey. Coming: Vicki Is 
familiar. Of course, I also think 
tic when Pam wasn't around surprised at Clint's testimony. 
about a lot of stupid things as I 
to help him get through a dif­
pack to go home, because it's 
ficult deal. Donna and Senator RYAN'S HOPE: Jackie 
always .3:00 in the morning 
Dowling continued to e'1ioy warned Joe to honor their 
after four or nine too many
their friendship. Coming: marriage orshe'll tell Max who 
beers. I never know why I 
April gets another chance to he really is. Slobhan, feeling 
packed toilet paper when I get 
cause mischief. Ill, fainted. Roger told Maggie 
home. I think about a lot of 
DAYS OF OUR LlvtS: Mar­he loves her and lied that he 
stupid things. 
lena appeared in the garden hadn't been with Delia. 
After I get home, the unex­
and heard the children calling Maggie didn't believe him and 
pected greets me at every cor­
her mommy. Roman assured rushed to an abortion clinic 
ner. My mom's hair always 
Olivia he would get on with followed by Roger and Delia. 
looks different. There's always 
life again. Max was shot and Slobhan told an unbelieving 
some new wallpaper some­
rushed to surgery where Mike Jackie that Max headed a cri­
where. It's usually pretty funny 
and Robin saved his life. minal network. Coming: Slob­
in my house to see what the 
Tamara was shaken by the ap­han is shocked by a new dis­
new fad food is. Last time it 
pearance of Mr. Coleman. covery. 
was these little thin "ginger" 
Coming: Kimberley's trial SANTA BARBARA: Keith 
cookies that my mom bought
takes a serious turn. warned Cruz he'll throw the 
on sale and were supposed to 
book at him If he learns he 
be "good for you." They looked 
fALCON CRf:ST: Lance was helped Kelly escape. Jeffrey 
and tasted suspiciously like 
frustrated in his attempts to and Kelly snuck into the cos· 
dog food. Surprise, surprise. 
help Melissa. Her behavior tume party, Hayley assured 
I guess I'm still living on this 
cost him a chance to join an Jake she's happy being 
unrealistic ideal of my house 
exclusive club. Richard be· married to Ted. Mason asked 
as a warm place where cookies 
came the new distributor for Tori to marry him. Corning: 
are always baking and a porch 
Angela's wines. Vickie and An­Eden gets upsetting news. 
light Is always on, awaiting my 
gela worried about Dan's THE YOUNG 6t THE REST· 
return from this extended 
preoccupation with Suzanne. LESS: Evan pushed for Andy 
sleepover. I cling to this naive 
Coming: Chase and Maggie to hear him out. Julie decided 
belief that time and progress 
provide Lance with help he to take a chance and make a 
stops wherever I am not. No 
hadn't expected. pass at Ashley. Victor's at­
matter how much it gets 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: A tempt to learn about Ashley's 
thrown back In my face, I still 
mystery woman helped Lucy whereabouts lead to new 
hold on to it. I don't know why. 
escape and booked them both frustrations. Coming: Ellen 
This last Christmas break 
on a bus headed for Nashville worries about Jack's growing 
was a perfect example of what 
where Terry and Patrick were interest In her. 
I'm talking about. New furni­
hiding. Lucy was later · 1987, McNaught Syndicate 
ture. A new VCR. A new car. A 
new house. But those actually 
are all secondary. It's the people who change who scare me the most. I always get caught off guard. 
Like my little brother. Seconds after I saw him, I adapted to the fact that that pudgy, fat-cheeked little stumbler I left this summer had grown a couple yards since I saw him last. And the peach fuzz. struggling to command his lip didn't rearrange his goofy little smile at all. What really threw me for a loop though was The Voice. 
"WHAT'S UP, KEV?" he said, 
recogntze you 
the word. 
She left me standing there in numbed shock. When I found her again she was on the phone. 
"Who ya talkin to?" I asked secretively. "Johnny" she hissed back. annoyed that I had asked. 
She ignored me and turned back to Johnny. "Really?!" she exclaimed, giggling. Two giggles later I became suspici­ous. Who was this twisted despoiler of children ­"Johnny?" She's too young to have a boyfriend. Boyfriends 
in a voice not unlike Darth Vader's. He looked at his big feet nonchalantly the first time I talked to him, like nothing had changed. 
"What In hell happened to your voice?" I asked, simply, Incredulously. 
"WADDYA MEAN?'' he asked back, looking around for some­place to run. 
My little sister was full of fun surprises too. At first. she con­fronted my questions manfully. She had nothing to hide, as fourth graders often do. I was preparing to ask her the old standby Big Brother question about "alleged boyfriends at school" when I noticed her ad­justing something under her armpits for the third time during our conversation. Three simple letters from the English alphabet which I had encoun­tered before in many wildly different contexts confronted me now with new meaning. It wandered lazily into my brain before punching me in the stomach. 
BRA. 
My little sister? That carefree laughing urchin of sunshine who was up until that point almost entirely sexless in my mind. Of course, I knew she was my "sister" but I had al­ways successfully staved off the notion that "sister" had to mean female. I called lots of nuns in grade school "sister" and I know that I could prove to any jury on earth that at least half of them were not female in the human sense of 
forced to... " I struggled for the appropriate fourth grade threat. Subtle, yet forceful. " ... I'll be forced to rip your face off." The "Rip-Your-Face-Off' threat always scared me as a child. 
I slammed the phone back Into its cradle and turned back io my little sister. Smiling now, I put my hands on my knees and spoke in a baby voice, "Wanna go play CandyLand now?" 
She adjusted her bra and kicked me. It's just the kind of thing that was happening to me all break. 
The crowning glory came when I clapped my little bro­ther on the shoulder in a uni­versal gesture of fraternal goodwill. "So, big guy, how's the fifth grade treating you??" I asked, using two question marks. 
He looked at me with a strange disbelief In his eyes and spoke in a voice deeper than time and space, "UH, I'M IN SEVENTH GRADE NOW...AND ITS TREATING ME FINE... " 
I mouthed a soundless "Oh ... " Somebody deep inside me screamed. 
So let's all be glad we're back at good old familiar Notre Dame and we're hitting that beautiful stretch of the second semester when the shortest month of the year lasts longer than eternity and when the whole campus Is either covered in snow or brown slush. 
Religion 
Monday, February 9,1987-page 7 
How do you relate to God? 

Editor's Note: The Observer is introducing the Religion page which will run twice a month. It will feature campus views on the Catholic, Church, and religious issues. Today's question is: Some people relate to God as father, some as mot­her, parole officer, or alter ego. How do you relate to God? When you relate to God, what happens? 
Of the two questions "Who is God?" and "What happpens when you relate to God?" the second is more manageable. I don't know that I can do the first. With regard to the second, my experience of the divine most often occurs late at night. when I settle down, look at the day, look at my life and see what's happening. What are the biggest parts of my life and how am I doing with those? I look at that and pay most at­tention to the parts that are confusing, difficult and over­whelming, trying to understand what's going on. It's somewhere in there that the experience of the divine oc­curs. Something happens which almost always calms me down, helps me see things more clearly, helps me understand what to do next and strengthens my sense of humor. The expe­rience is so intensely personal that I call it God. That's the only name I know that fits. Some characteristics of God: Best Teacher. Old Friend. Fun to be with. Who God is includes all of those then some. That's the closest I can get to a name. 
Sister Karol Jackowski is dean of student affairs at Saint Mary's. 
How do I relate to God. As Providence is the best single word to describe it. When I was young I prayed to God in the words of the "Our Father" but I never imaged God as a larger than life Father in the sky. I don't recall ever imaging God at all. 
But, young, I did look to God for the things a good Father provides: loving care, supply­ing all my needs. I prayed for cdhcrete things--to find my lost bracelet (I found it in the sand of a clear running brook where I played), to get a pony. I never related to the Jesus I was taught in Sunday School (protestant) because he seemed pusillanimous. 
As I grew older I left organ­ized religion for approximately ten years. Still I often turned to God, God as a loving and ab-in whom we have our spiritual being. I became more aware of a pattern in my life which had led me here, for a purpose (which I may someday know). In other words my belief in God as the one who provides, cares, leads, structures our life -as Providence -was confirmed. 
And now? My relation to God remains very much what it was 

solutely trustworty presence, God who led me along strange paths, God who deserted me but who haunted me. 
When I turned back to reli­gion it was to the Catholic Church. There I found Jesus as the Risen Lord, as Christ in whom I could believe as the living Word of God. I had, even in my most agnostic days, al­ways found guidance and the presence of God in Scripture. It was not difficult to believe in Christ as Word, as Wisdom, as the Image of God in whom we are created. I found the Spirit as a child, but matured, even grown old, as I am. That is, God is an intelligent being who cares about me, about those whom I love, about the world, whom I can trust confidently to provide now -and if God so wills -forever: Proviclence. I still talk easily to this God, but I no longer ask for bracelets and ponies. In fact I don't ask for concrete things, other than the well-being of those I love, and all suffering humans. I do give thanks to God, often. I give thanks for all the good things that come to me -and I make formal thanksgiving to God in 
·~Goclfatha•s Pizza~ 
Find one. Its worth it 
Sund &M S 
I
1 Medium original single I ingredient pizza andI ~ 1
cheese bread 
1 ·~·· ~.~:;?, plus tax & deliv.~...:::Z J
L--------------------­
We Deliver to a Limited AreP
Goclfather~ ~Pizza. 52920 US 31 North 
~r 277-5880 South Bend, IN 
the liturgical celebrations which are important in my life. 
What happens when I relate to God? I am no longer alone. i have a sense of presence ­loving, caring presence, whom I can trust absolutely. Espe­cially at the Sunday liturgy I am comforted for the week past and strengthened for the week to come. I am reminded of all those for whom our community prays. Christ, the living Word of God, is among us -as we say when we exchange the 'peace' before communion. 
Ellen  Weaver  is  assistant  
chairwoman  of  theology  at  
Notre Dame.  

God is to me: Friend, Artist, Musician, Theologian, Demo­crat. She is Friend because S'he is a companion in the adven­ture of life. I am bonded with the Immortal in relationship the essence of which is freedom, non-intrusiveness and shared joy and pain. She allows me to make my mis­takes, laughs over them and finds some redeeming feature in them which will heal and nourish. She has been with me on occasions of acute physical pain and near death experi­ences and she has pointed to a life beyond, as mysterious as it is real. 
God reveals herAtimself in the multifarious ways of life. In this age of cacophony I hear her in silence; in this age of human manufacture I find her in the jocund wind in the trees, in liberating ecstasy of my malamute as he prances in the woods, in tutelary care of my mare for her foal and the life surging through my veins from equine movement beneath me. 
She is Artist. With meticu­lous and infinite finesse S'he planned each atom of the uni­verse. Who could equal her creativity, her ingenuity, her 
colour scheme or the paradoxi­cal nature of many of her crea­tures? And she becomes incar­nate in the bewildering diversity of human beings which she created. She is pres­ent in the mobile wrinkles of Mother Theresa ; in the dis­membered body of the leper; in the physical beauty and hope of youth; in the quick body of the unborn. 
She is conductor of the great orchestra of sound, human, animal and cosmic--if we have ears unphoned to hear! Who could compete with her avion choir? 
She entered the human com­munity in the person of Her Son, Jesus. He carne as a theo­logian. He is experienced in the unrivaled didactic power of his parables. But He was not only a theoretician. He accom­plished his field research by identifying with the most degraded, abused and jested of 
humankind. He accepted the most obscene death -that of a slave. By his resurrection from the dead he taught us "that there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt in thy philosophy ... " (words of immoral bard). 
God is a democrat. As sover­eign of sovereigns S'he neither dictates nor coerces. The mem­bers of herAlis realm are free citizens whose conduct should be governed by responsibility to the community of humankind, respect of the human person and genuine feel love for their sovereign. 
She is master;tnistress of communication arts chief of which is herAlis Spirit. This Spirit comes as constant in­novator, impatient of vegetat­ing stasis, yet observer of the constant norm which preserves the shalom of church and state. To imbibe her is to inhale freedom and refreshment. She comes in the coolness of bap­tism water and descends like dew upon the Eucharist ban­quet. 
Josephine Ford is a professor of theology at Notre Dame. 
It is easier to explore my re­
lationship with God by first 
considering what my relation­
ship with God is not. When I 
was growing up, I was taught 
that God was a "father­
figure." I was taught that God 
was the final judge, and thus 
One to be feared. I was taught 
that God was all powerful and 
all mighty, and that any image 
I could come up with in my own 
mind would not do God justice. 
Today, relating to God is a conscious decision for me; it is something that I chose to be in­volved in. Because I chose this relationship, it is not the in­timidating relationship that I had before. I am not afraid of the God who is the Final Judge, because that is the same God who lets me know myself by allowing me to make mistakes, fumble, stumble, and many times fall flat on my face... usually to get up and try again, or sometimes even give up. But I have courage in myself because in my relation­ship with God the elements of perfect friendship are present. God assumes the brunt of my anger, frustration, question­ing, denial (of spirit or self), doubt, joy, giddiness, excite­ment, nervousness, anticipa­tion, curiousity, and wonder without ever refusing me. God does not give me anwers or def­initions but allows me the op­portunities and situations to realize myself. 
If I never understand my re­lationship more than this, that will be O.K. because I know that I will continue to strive for understanding through ques­tioning, anticipating, and reaching out without the need for a definition. 
Jeanne Heller is student body president at Saint Mary's and a senior English major. 
Though God is much bigger than any vision I have of a Fa­ther, I most often find myself relating to God as my 'Spiritual Father.' It is as though God nurtures and protects me when I am weak and allows me to be what I am ultimately meant to be. The biggest problem I have in relating to God is that I usually underestimate His goodness and love to me. 
When I fully let go of the restraints I normally place on God, I find a great peace and comfort that surpasses any other joy I know. 
I do not wish it to all sound so simplistic and easy, because it is not -a few of the things_ which are really good for us really are. But the more struggles I go through, the easier it is for me to relate and communicate to God. 
Nick Mathioudakis is head of ICHTHUS and a senior busi­ness major at Notre Dame. 
-------~-----------------------------------------------------' 
-~-~--~------------------------~-­
The Observer Monday, February 9,1987-page 8 

Sports Briefs 
The SMC varsity softball team will have practice tonight from 7 to 9 at Angela. Anyone interested in trying out is welcome. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club men's team wants any men interested in rowing to report to the Rockne first floor weight room tomorrow at 4 p.m. No experience necessary. Be prepared to run. For more information contact Tom at 2350. Also, members can pick up their sweats in Joe B's room tonight from 11 to midnight. Call Pat at 4071 if you have any questions. -The Observer 
The SMC basketball team beat Taylor Saturday, 69-55. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
SAB Broomball Pairings for the tournament beginning today are as follows: 
SAB Broomball Tournament 
Monday'• Gam• 
Stepan Field 1 Turtle Avengers vs. Substances, 4:00 ... Fan club vs. Ice-Daggers, 4:30 The 814 ... vs. Four Cheeks and Two Cracks, 5:00 The Flghllng Hardbodies vs. RevenQe of the Euro ... , 5:30 
Stepan Field 2 Bud Suckers vs. Zeppelin Reunion, 4:00 Comemierdas vs. Mother Theresa ... , 4:30 The House vs. Ack, 5:00 House Guests vs. Soixante ... , 5:30 
Stepan Field 3 Tis A plly vs. The He-Man Women Haler, 4:00 Lei's Getr Wide vs. The Guests That Would Never Leave, 4:30 Subhumans vs. Assassins, 5:00 Brigham Young & The Swinger vs. Drinkers From Hell, 5:30 
Vandy beats ice-cold Irish, 60-56 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
NASHVILLE, Tenn.-Randy Neff, a 52-percent free-throw shooter entering the game, hit three-of-four from the stripe in the final15 seconds as Vander­bilt upended Notre Dame Friday night, 60-56. 
The Irish created their own misery, though, as they shot 35 percent (18 of 51) for the game including an incredibly anemic 18 percent (4 of 22) in the first half. 
"We played about as badly as possible in the first half," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "We were hor­rible. You're not going to beat anybody, especially on the road, by going 4-for-22." 
But as bad as the Irish were, they still had a chance to win late, cutting a seven-point def­icit to one with 16 seconds left. But Donald Royal missed a three-point play free throw with the Irish down, 57-56. After Neff missed a bonus free throw with 15 seconds remaining, Mark Stevenson overthrew Royal. The Commodores in­bounded, and the Irish had to send Neff back to the line where he slammed the door on the Irish. 
"Don't take anything away from Vanderbilt because they did the things necessary to win, especially hitting the foul shots late. They won the game be­cause we didn't want to win the game 
"We just didn't respond until there were six minutes left, and we thought we had a chance to scramble back into it. We come back at the end, and we can't get a shot when we have a chance to tie." 
As for Vanderbilt head coach 
C.M. Newton, whose own club only hit on 41 percent of its shots en route to raising its record to 14-9, he was happy that his Commodores shook their problems and hung on for the win. 
"We had a couple of poor shots, and everything else we took was on balance but just didn't go in," said Newton. "Fortunately for us, Notre Dame went through the same thing. When a team only has four field goals at half, you ought to have them buried. It was a good win for us and a very intensely played game. 
"Notre Dame is just what I thought they were. They're a really class, tough basketball team. A lot of teams when you get a seven-point lead go down and miss their free throws. They never believed for a min­ute that they weren't going to win." 
Scott Draud led the 'Dores with 14 points, while Will Perdue and Barry Goheen hit for 13 each. For the Irish, Royal scored 21, and David Rivers and J a mere Jackson each had nine. 
Notre Dame was without Sean Connor, whose three­point shooting had become a factor in the past week. Connor injured his right ankle near the end of Thursday's practice and was on crutches Friday night. The lack of bench scoring hin­dered the Irish against Vandy, but Phelps didn't accept that as an excuse. 
"Even without Sean Connor, there's no excuse," said Phelps. "That's a cop out. Other people want to play, there's their chance. Our fresh­men should be playing like sop­homores by now. Put every­thing else aside, and we still should either win the game in the last minute or at least go into overtime." 
Indiana beats Wolverines 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Guard Steve Alford scored 30 points yesterday, including 16 of Indiana's 22 during an eight­minute first-half streak that carried the No. 2-ranked Hoosiers to an 83-67 Big Ten Conference basketball victory over Michigan. 
With Alford scoreless the first nine minutes of the game, 
the  Hoosiers  struggled  and  
never points.  led by  more  than  two  

The Obaener Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObHJYer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts ciassifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfieds Is 3 p.m. Ali classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
LOST: CALC 106 BOOK IN 115 O'SHAG NEED RIDE to Cinncinati for BJ concert will pay $75.00 for 2 stud. tix to Duke HUMAN LEAGUE IS COMING I TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: ON FRI 11.!(}87 IF FOUND CALL BILL Tues Feb t 0. Maureen x2724 and DePaul. Call 616 782-8494 after 6
NOTICES 
TO THE RIVIERA NIGHT CLUB··P. X 1165 Alright , ok. I'll play lhis game,HELPIII Loyal sons need seven Duke CHICAGO FEB. 15 BUS PROVIDED TO (You've really made a fuss).
WORDPROCESSING LOST-BLUE ID HOLDER G.A.s and one student ticket for DadFest CHICAGO--FREEIII But you see unlil i know your name,277-8131 WLICENSE,ID, ETC IN SA BAR AREA FOR SALE 87.... $ Will pay $ Call 277-7547. 
You're just "anonymous." 
ON WED NITE PLEASE CALL 284-5048 
SENIORS SENIORS Last chance to be IF FOUND 
involved. Help out with Senior Month ... the 
TYPING AVAILABLE FOR SALE: '86 Bertone x19 convertible. If it was your intention
best month ot your young adutt 287-4082 
Alpine Stereo. Pirelli tires. 4500 miles. 
lives. interested persons should attend a To get my attention. 
$9900. Call 255-2130. 
meeting Wed,Feb 11 ,9:00,Senior Consider H more or less gotten. Bar.Call Lea(3719) or Gordo(1666) if you BUT-­SUMMER IN EUROPE $279 
PERSONALS 
are unable to make it. 
Unless I'm informed 
Lowest Scheduled Fares to all of Europe FOR RENT from Chlcego. Call 1 (800) 325-2222. ROUNDTRIP AIRFARE: SB­
Of your name 1 number I dorm,The Observer is looking for BAR and 
Tampa,3'14-3'22.$200.Call Gordo, 1666. You can write yourself off as forgotten I
RESTAURANT reviewers. Reviewers Wordprocessing-Typing FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
are reimbursed for reviews. Contact Mary 272-8827 FALL SEMESTER 6838889 2 AIRTIX: INDY-FT.LAUD MAR11-22 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE --Mike
Jacoby at 239-5313 or 272·3833. .............................................l''''''''''"'''''' $200 each. Call x3711 in pm. BLOCK SOUTH! OF HOLIDAY INN . 
P.S. Hey, this is funlSMOKE FROM NOWHERE: NO'S
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY: 3 BR AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH • ONLY HEAVY METAL band (sorry
7406 HOUSE 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND FOR SALE. RENOVATED, POSITIVE PUT IN YOUII VALENTINE'S DAY 
WANTED 
Marauder), at THEODORE'S on Monday, 
February 9th. BE THERE!
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL CASH FLOW FROM MONTH ONE. CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME. 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SPRING BREAK JAMAICA CALL 239-5303 FOR INQUIRY. SMOKE FROM NOWHERE: Crisp,
Projecl Manager needed Clean, HEAVY METAL rock and roll. DRUIDS UNITE
FREE vacation plus $$$ Fellow club member: THEODORE'S, MONDAY, FEBRUARY The High Season Is al hand
DIAMONDS, GOLD--too much $$? FA­1-800-237-2061 "It's been a long, THER TIME has 14K ove~ay & cubic TICKETS been a long, long, long, time. 
9TH! WORSHIP.•. 
zirconia jewelry. Write P.O.Box 1005 If I'm rigllt or if I'm wrong, So.Bend, IN 46224 for info. GOVERNMENT JOBSI Now hiring in does if matter anyway?" Hey Greco-Roman wrist wrestler, Needed ride to Cleveland this weekend 
your area, both skilled and unskilled. For Need Tickets Desperately to Duke bas­Thanks for a wonderful weekend. Love 02113 -02115 will share costs call Tim Resort Hotels, Cruiselines, Airlines, list of jobs and application. Call (615) ketball game. Either student or GA's. --Genesis you. -3231 Amusement Parks, NOW accepting ap­383-2627 Ext J316 Call Eric at 272·9123. plications. For more information and an Take a chance? Markles LIKE, FER SURE-Yes, I have two application; write: National Collegiate Need ride to IU Bloomington or vacinily I have $, but do not have 2 DePaul GAs. BEACH BOYS tickets. Do you? I'll sell Recreation Service, P.O. Box 8074, Hil­Feb 13, returning Feb 15. Will pay for Could you help me achieve equi­you my lower arena seats (sec7, row 2) ton Head, S.C. 29938 gas. Call Adam at 4009. leeeebrium? Please call Bill x1460. Lasl Chance For Spring Break '871 THE YELLOW SUBMARINE for face valuellllll Call 288-1941 & ask 
South Padre Island, Daytona We deliver til midnight dally 
Beach, for Liz-Dog or Ei-Dog. SUMMER JOBS NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. Steamboat Springs, Miami Beach! Fort Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free 
ALL LAND AND WATER SPORTS CALL 4334. Lauderdale, Mustang Island' Port til March 1. 
A.N. alias "Bright Eyesl" Sorry I missed PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK Aransas, Galveston Island and Fort Wal­272-4453 
your ad, I'm glad the flowers made you 
' LOST/FOUND I 
MOUNTAINS I DESPERATELY NEED TWO DUKE 
ton Beach. Call Sunchase Tours Central smile, but you still look down sometimes. CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381-GAs Spring Break Toll Free Hot Line Today Who am I? At the 'Willie Wonks" movie, LOST-In Theodore's Fri 11.30. FOOT­4224 PARENTS ARE COMING FROM CALl· THANK YOU ST.JUDE
for last minute information and reserve-I sat righl behind you. I'd like to say 'hello' BALL JACKET -blue \IV white sleeves. FORNIA lions '1-800-321-59111 
K.M. alias "Hopeless Romantic/" 
"PELHAM VARSITY" on back. No ques­BIG MONEY I need an SMC student to help me clean tions. Call Scizzy 37 44 I NEED A RIDE TO CINCINNATI ON PLEASE CALL JOHN x1158 my big old house on Thursday momings 
Karen, Happy Birthday Raving Mad and FEB. 12 OR 13. MARTY 2937 or Friday afternoons, $4. per hour, call 
Somewhat Slightly Dazed LOST: DESIGN OF MACHINE ELE­234-4498. 
MENTS a Lt. Gray ME book and 3 spiral OVERSEAS JOBS ... Summer, $$~ DESPERATELY NEED DUKE APPLICATIONS FOR SAB POSmONS 
RIDE NEEDED TO CINCINNATI FEB. notebooks on Feb. 2, noon, North Dining yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australla, TIX FRIENDS COMING FROM FAR available on 2nd floor LeFortune HUCK 
13 CALL CHRISTINE 284-4341 
Hall. If found call Marc x2056. AWAY PLACES CALL X4045 IIIII application• due Feb. 13; lor more In­You light up my life 
Asia. All fields. $900-2000 mo.Sightseeing.Free lnfo.Wrlte IJC, PO HAPPY 1stl
fo., atop by SAB office 
Happy 20th Birthday Juliel LOST: Keys lost at the North Carolina BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 UP TO 6 DUKE GA-STEPHX3944 The love that's always there­
There's a beer waiting for you at game. 5 large keys and 1 small key. If Brle 
Bentley's I found PLEASE call 2690. Want to buy a MACINTOSH. Call Erin I NEED GA'S FOR THE DUKE GAME. 
ND-SMC SUMMER PROGRAMS Love from Colorado, 
272-2357. MARTY 2937 LONDON (MAV 211-JUNE 19) ROME LOST: Men's Class Ring. lnHials lnslda (JUNE 14-JULY 13) BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII John -JPK '88-. Lost last Wednesday night be­TWO NEED RIDE TO TEXAS FOR NEED 3 DUKE GA'S OR STUD TIX. TRAVEL IREL,SCOT,ENG, BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII tween bookstore and Senior Bar. Please SPRING BREAK FINAL DESTINATION CALL NOW, IF NOT SOONER x2113 BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII
FR,GER,SWITZ,rTALY. NINE COL· contacl ~ you find it. Phone-1222 and IS MEXICO MORE THAN WILLING TO $$$ LEGE COURSES AVAILABLE 2 AIRTIX: INDY-FT.LAUD MAR11-22 ask for John. Thanks. SHARE EXPENSES CALL 2778 OR $200 each. Call x3711 In pm.
MEETING FEB 24, 7:00PM, CARROLL 1616 I Need 2 Duke GA's, Desperately. Col­HALL SMC; PASSPORT PICTURES BP SPIRIT WEEKIII TONITE: THE FOUND: Winter jacket at ACC secllon leen 233-9806. AVAILABLE, f'OR INFO, CALL PROF DATING GAMEl TUES:SECTION FOUND: One gold earing with blue 115 after NO-Carolina game. Call Steve TELEMARKETING A.A. BLACK 2114-4480 OR 272-3726 OLYMPICS! WEDS:X-C SKIING! stripes In Morrissey Hall early Saturday at 283-1637 to describe and clalm. Earn and have fun. Need GA t1x for Duke garne.Big Bucks. THURS:BP TALENT SHOWI morning. Call £3470 to claim. Hours are Monday and Tuesday, 5 pm Call 284-4366; 239-6734; or 283-3854. DO ME againll DOME shirts are backll FRI:DINNER & SLIDESHOWI GET FOUND: One gold earlng willl blue to 10 pm., Sunday, 11 am lo 7 p.m. PSYCHED BPERSIII Needed ride lo Cleveland this weekend
Walch for mom info ..... 
st~pes in Morrissey Hall early Selurday Good pey, short to indefinite posllions. STILL NEED 2 DUKE TIXI 0211 3 -0211 5 will share costs call Tim morning. Call £3470 to claim. Immediate openings. HELPI Need ride to Indianapolis for 2113. Call THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR PRAYERS ·3231 MANPOWER CLARE 21116 AMSWERED.
Teresa x1618 Whoever took a royal blue Garry ski Temporary staff specialists LOST-BLUE 10 HOLDER jacket at Theodore ·s last Friday could you 320 W. LaSalle HUMAN LEAGUEIII Why dost thou do this to me so. If ye WLICENSE,ID, ETC IN SA BAR AREA 
please call me or return H, my 10 is In 234-0157 NEED 2 DUKE STUD. TIX-CALL DIANE dost not revealeth of thyself then it is ON WED NITE PLEASE CALL 284-5048 the pocket. Thenks. OR JULIE AT 3738. HUMAN LEAGUEIII SHALOM for good. CAPTAIN KOSHER IF FOUND 
Monday, February 9,1987-page 9 
The Observer 

layed it in to end the game.
Hawks 
"I thought we were in pretty 
good shape with about five
continuedfrompage 12 
minutes to go and we were up lane for a violation. Turnovers five with the ball," said Irish in the last five minutes also head coach Digger Phelps. showed the Irish were wearing "Then we had two straight out. turnovers, and that hurt us. 
And then there was Manning, Even the timeouts and adjust-who was nothing short of sensa tional in the second half. Man­ning had 23 points in the second stanza on an assortment of hook shots, turnaround jumpers and free throws. Everytime the J ayhawks needed him, Manning an­swered the call. 
With the score tied at 55 with 
3: 07 remammg, Manning really took matters into his own hands, scoring nine of Kansas' last 15 points, including five-of­seven free throws. Manning Mark Stevenson capped his afternoon with a ments didn't help. The last five long pass downcourt to Kevin minutes we just didn't do the Pritchard (the Jayhawk's things we had to do. We should second-leading scorer in the have been driving the ball more game with eight points) who rather than worry about shoot-


John, John the Piper's son stole a pig and away he run, 
bum bum de 
Happy Birthday John, Love Mama Foo and the guys. 
!Bd?~cD'c.E 
. ~\ ~ 
®t\~ Follow 23 8euth to: ~ 2110 PnlrleAn. Soulllllead 
288-3320 
Free. Delivery to NO and SMC campuses Spm to 1 Opm monday through Saturday 
Last delivery at 10 pm. SAVE THIS AD 
272-5455
NAUGLEs· 
TO YOUR DORM! ! 
;,:) 
NITELY 5 • 12
~ ~0~~\) 
TACO'S 
~ Crisp Taco 1.00 ~ Soft Taco 1.25
Q 
NACHOS 
8 
Fajita Taco,_ 1.50 Macho Taco 1.75 Nachos & Cheese ;,:) Macho Nachos :z: Beans & Cheese.. 
C'i 
BURRITO'S ~ Bean Burrito 1.50 
FROM THE GRILL

Meat Burrito 2.25 ~~ Combo Burrito 2.00 oO Naugleburger Cheese Burrito 1.75 !i Of Fashion Chicken Sandwich 1.75
Male. tt Macho or Wei Additional .75 
;!oo 
Macho Fries 1.00 
C'i -1
;,:) SALADS DRINKS 
Salad Platter 2.75 $ 
c:: Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Slice, Root Beer,
~ 
Tostada Grande 3.25 
Dr. Pepper, Lemonade, Ice Tea 
~ Uters 1.00 Q 
NEW PLATTERS 
MUk Shakes 1.25= EnchUada 3.00
;,:) 0 Soft Taco 3.00 :z: Ranchero' 3.00.. Fajita·Steak' 3.75 501 Dlxleway North 
C'i 

(lncluda Boano-C'-Sobd & fn'-1 RoHland 'With Sour c..., 
272-5455 
FOR LARGER APPETirES Plus TllX on Above Ptk:a DINNERS AVAllABLE 6.00 Minimum Onler 4.75 
ing jumpshots, because we had the bonus. We should have had more than 29 foul shots. We didn't look to get the ball inside and get the foul shots, and that's where we broke down in the last five minutes. 
"I thought we came out and could've gotten blown out, but we didn't lose our composure. We got the lead and played very well in the second half for about 15 minutes. Those last few points are no indication of how the game went. I think our kids did a pretty good job of playing the way they did." 
Manning's performance overshadowed one of the most balanced Irish scoring attacks of the year. Led by Mark Stevenson's 14, the Irish got double figures from four players. Rivers and Voce each had.13, while Royal added 11. 
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish were again without Sean Con­nor against the Jayhawks. Con­nor, who sprained his right ankle Thursday, flew back to South Bend following Friday night's loss to Vander­Steve Alford and the Indiana Hoosiers defeated Michigan 83-67 bilt. yesterday. Alford finished with 30 points. See story on page 8. 
ND wrestlers get slapped 
~277-7 
againstCMU 
By CHRIS KILEY Sports Writer 
Although it was scheduled to be a wrestling match, the Central Michigan Chippewas entered the ACC yesterday and gave their rendition of the Ben­gal Bouts en route to a 27-14 victory over Notre Dame. 
"Central Michigan is not good on their feet, so they resorted to intimidation tech­niques like slapping heads," said Notre Dame Assistant Coach Ricky Stewart. "They
Gift Certificates got our kids to start blinking and flinching, and then took ad­vantage of it." 

Many of the Irish wrestlers were not pleased with this ploy 
THERE'S STILL 
and returned blows which were closer to jabs than head taps. 
TIME TO PREPARE 
"Overall, there was some good, solid wrestling," said Stewart. "What I am pleased with is that our better wrestlers are now winning consistently. They are improving every match by eliminating mistakes and sticking to the basics." 
After losing the first two matches, the Irish captured the next three weight classes with wins by Jerry Durso, Pat Boyd, and Ron Wisniewski, giving them a 10-6 advantage after the 150-pound match. 
Yet, inexperience and injury again haunted the Irish as Chris Geneser was the lone winner in the last five matches. 
"I hate to dwell on it, but we are still filling holes," said Stewart. ''These guys are wres­tling their hearts out. Mike Sheets, for example, is actually a 142-pound wrestler. He is moving up two weight classes and it is hard for him to learn much with the weight disad­
KAPLAN 
vantage."
STANL£Y H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
The frustrated Irish are still
The worlds leading test prep organization 
searching for only their second CAU. DAYS, MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
victory of the season. They travel to Ann Arbor on Friday to take on the Wolverines of 1717 £. South 8end Ave. Phone 219/272-41]5 
Michigan and return home on South Hend, IN 116637 
Sunday for their last home meet of the year against In­diana University. 

that contributed to the victory.  Following the women's meet,  
While not always taking first,  the men took on Kalamazoo.  
they were able to take second  The the times for the Irish all  
and third in most events.  dropped considerably, with the  
Saturday's action began with  biggest coming in the 400-yard  
the women's team taking on  freestyle relay. Swimmers Jim  
Ball State in of the most even  Dowd, Roger Miro, Chris  
meets of the season. The depth  Petrillo, and John Froman  
of the Irish proved to be no ad- combined their swims for a  
vantage against the equally­ record-breaking time of  
deep Ball State team.  3: 10.44. The swim broke the  
Despite improved times in in- Rolfs Pool record set last year  
dividual and relay events,  by St. Bonaventure.  
Notre Dame was unable to  Coach Welsh said he was  
close in on hard-charging Ball  pleased with the weekend on  
State. The high point of the  the whole and sees the Irish  
meet came in the one-meter  coming to a peak.  
diving event. Freshman Geor­ "We're getting stronger and  
gia Boessler, expected to place  faster every week," said  
third, dazzled the crowd with  Welsh. "The men are coming  
excellent dives and earned first  together into a tough, unified  
place. Coach Welsh only had  team. It was an excellent  
praise for the women's perfor­ weekend overall, and we ac­ 
mances.  complished most of what we  
"It was the best complete- hoped to do."  
team effort since Christmas,"  With such momentum behind  The Observer/Greg Kohs  
said Welsh. "They improved  them, Notre Dame prepares  Mary Gavin continued her fine floor leadership in Notre Dame's  
their times all around and were  for the University of Illinois- one-point loss to Miami Saturday. Gavin finished the game with  
just excellent."  Chicago Tuesday.  11 assists. Theresa has the details on the back  

Men's swimmers get two victories; women lose tough meet to Cards 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
In fast-swimming action Sat­urday, the Notre Dame men's swim team defeated Kalamazoo in their last home meet of the season after destroying Bradley on Friday night. The women, meanwhile, lost to Ball State in a hard­fought encounter. 
The men's team went to Bradley with a determined at­titude and left with an impres­sive victory. Last year the meet against Bradley went down to the final event. This year, the Irish took the lead from the beginning and left Bradley in their wake, 129-88. 
Coach Welsh said he was im­pressed with the performance by the team. 
"The team was primed and ready to win the meet," said Coach Welsh. "The key to the 

1!!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!~~ 
t=T. LAUU~~UAL~ 

WHEN YOU NEED IT BAD 
WE ~r:JEUVER: 
'fOceanfront accommodations for 8 beautiful days and 7 wild nights, providing air conditioning, color TV, telephone, swimming pool and sun deck. 
All of our hotels are located directly on the beach. 
~Optional kitchenettes available (first come, first serve basis).
'lfFree pool deck parties.
'fFood, merchandise and service discounts provided by local merchants to Inter-Campus Programs trip participants. 
~Computerized central reservation system to insure accuracy and organization.
'fFull time staff on location to serve your needs during your stay. 

COMPLETE

8 
PACKAGE 
'ALL TAXES, TIPS AND SERVICE CHARGES INCLUDED 
ROOM PACKAGE (4 Per Room) (INCLUDES ALL OF THE ABOVE) 
ROAD TRIP: We will provide round 1rip mo1or coach transportation departing from your campus and travelling straight through lo your hotel in Fort Lauderdale. All buses have reclining seals and air conditiomng, and wash room facililies for a comfor1able ride. 
OUR HOTELS ARE LOCATED DIRECTLY OIN THE FT. LAUDERDALE STRIP 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP: 
Sharon 283-1669 Michelle 283-2939 & Anne a I 
' 






The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS
Bruns, ND, 222 Hayes-Healy 
1 Dental tool 
4:30p.m.: College of Science Lecture, 
5 Gorge 
Part I, "Synthesis, Properties, and 
10 Ship part 
14 Wild ox 15 Highway
Reactivity of Caged Metal Ions," by 
Prof. Alan Sargeson, Australian Natural 
16 Fury
University, Canberra, 123 Nieuwland 
17 Darn it!
Science Hall 
18 Gravel ridge
6:30 p.m.: Meeting, Amnesty Interna­
19 Virginia 
willow 20 Wallis 
tional, esc 
7:00p.m. : SMC History Department Lec­
Simpson
ture, "Religion and the Constitution: 
22 Early settler
Original Intentions and Historical 
24 Time zone
Departures," by Dr. Gary Glenn, Nor­
letters 
thern Illinois University, Carroll Hall 
25 Science of 7:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I 
vision 26 Wilkes-­
"Rules of the Game," 1939, Black and 
29 Unclose to
White, 108 minutes, directed by Jean 
poets
Renoir, France, USA, Annenberg 
30 Suggestive
Auditorium 
glances 
33-Baba 34 TV's Anderson
8:00p.m.: Theology Department debate 
on abortion proposition: "Recent 
36 Occult
developments and reflection provide aut­
37 Go ·under
hentic reasons to reconsider the virtually 
39 Adoree or ~1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/9/87All Rights Reserved
total Christian disapproval of abortion." 
Taylor 
41 Fr. city
Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.C., will 
42 Encompass 2 Two-toed sloth 44 Troubles 3 Mil. gp. 
argue on the negative side and Prof. 
Daniel Maguire, Marquette University 
46 Addition to 4 Bacon slice
on the positive side, Washington Hall, 
a building 5 Peak 
admission free but tickets are required 47 Genus of 6 "Bonanza" 9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, aquatic herbs character "Freud," 1962, Black and White, 120 48 Luau treat 7 Diving bird 
49 Broadcast 8 Treeless 
minutes, directed by John Huston, USA, 
51 With-of plain
Annenberg Auditorium 
salt 9 Earn 


Campus 
11:45 a.m.-1:00 p.m.: Economics De­partment Development Workshop,"Seven Hypotheses Concerning Compar­ative Studies of Agrarian Reform," by Solon Barraclough, ND, 131 Decio 
3:30 p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Constrained Rate-Feedback-Threshold Control for Large Flexible Structures," by David Zimmerman, SUNY, Buffalo, 303 Cus­hing 3:30-5:00p.m.: Computer Minicourse, DisplayWrite 3, Part 1, 108 Computing Center, limit 7, to register, call Betty 239-5604 
4:00 
-5:30p.m.: Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies faculty forum op­portunities, a continuation of first semes­ter meetings to discuss system dynamics and modelling approaches to interna­tional conflict. Anyone planning to attend the forum should RSVP at 6970, 101 Hur­ley 

4:00 
p.m.: Office Visits/ Plant Trips Workshop for graduating students with second interviews conducted by Kitty Ar­nold, director of Career and Placement Services, Memorial Library Lounge 


4:30 p.m.: Department of English 1987 Ward-Phillips Lecture I, Theme: Estrangements: Language, Truth, and Poetry in the Later Heidegger, ''The Aes­thetics of Estrangement," by Gerald 
TilE HEU, EXCJT­10 IMPAC.f! mr, WINT!Ir SPORr lir r NOTlrE' {)Affc : 
1 (1/NV)l 
.. 
W4TVIIN' P£0Pi£5Uf
""" 
ON I(£ ftN() /)() S/JMt 
SEKIW~ SP((AWUNG­
IIJHI/£ tNTtR'ING TI+E /JINING-HltU5 ! { 8f:ST 11/EWtNC. P®t: tN 
MOfi'NING-I.I#£N l'lfVI!f ARE HWGoVtf?,UR.(X;,<iY. 
I!NP GCNC~t.U tJNRI,.ji!,K[ OF 11ff' tfl1f'ENOtN& /'l.w. t-q ()ISASTEI(•. . ) 


Monday, February 9,1987-page 12 
Jayhawks turn back Irish, 70-60; Manning hits career-high 40 points 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN to him. There's no way I though game seesawed throught out Sports Editor he'd go 16 for 21. It took that the first half. type of performance." In the second half, the Irish 
LAWRENCE, Kan. -After Irish head coach Digger twice opened five-point leads in Kansas' 70-60 victory over Phelps agreed that Manning, the first 10 minutes of the half. Notre Dame, Jayhawk head who has been accused of going It also looked as if the Irish coach Larry Brown jokingly into the tank in games, played would be able to use a favorite appologized to reporters for with meaning Sunday. tactic -shooting free throws. making them miss that after­"I thought Danny Manning With just over 15 minutes to 
noon's NBA All-Star game. It turned it on for 40 minutes play, the Irish were in the didn't matter. today," said Phelps, whose bonus, much to the dismay and Kansas forward Danny Man­squad dropped its second disgust of the capacity crowd ning put on an all-star display straight and fell to 13-7 on the of 15,800 at Allen Field House. 
of his own, scoring a career­season. "He put on a good But the Irish couldn't or high 40 points on 16-of-21 from show, going 16-for-21 the way wouldn't force the ball inside the field and 8-of-11 from the he did. He's just a great player, to get points the easy way. And line to lead his Jayhawk team­and he came to play today. then, fatigue and Manning took 
mates past the Irish. That's what hurt us at that end over. 
"Danny answered all those of the floor today. Playing in their seventh people who said he's not assert­With teammates Cedric game in 15 days and with a ing himself," said Brown. "I've Hunter and Keith Harris bench that hadn't produced two 
been with some really great sidelined with injuries, Man­days earlier against Vander­players, but not when you con­ning took over early. He scored bilt, the Irish starters were sider what the kid did and the 10 of the Jayhawks first 13 forced to go the distance in the 
shots he made at crucial times. points as Kansas (18-5) raced second half, despite foul trou­He played against three pretty to a 13-4 lead at the opening of ble. The fatigue showed in little -good defenders. Before the the game. ways. For instance, with the The Observer /Bob Burns game I thought Danny would But the Irish fought back and Irish down, 55-51 and Rivers at 
Notre Dame dropped a pair of games over the weekend. Dennis have to take control. Digger what at first looked like a the line to shoot a bonus freeCorrigan has the details of yesterday's loss to Kansas at right, does so many things to you runaway turned into a dog­throw, Gary Voce fell into theand Friday's defeat at Vanderbilt on page 8. 
defensively, and it was the type fight. The Irish went on a 13-3 
see HAWKS, page 9
of team that we want to go in tear to take the lead, and the 
ND women let lead and game slip away against Hurricanes 
By THERESA KELLY ball into the paint to Heidi a fast break basket at the 5:50 first half), almost 10 points themselves at the foul line, Sports Writer Bunek, who scored 12 in the mark and teammate Toni below her season average. making only 5 of 12 (.455) . The first half. Miami's scrappy Smiley followed with a baseline Rivera, a 5-5 guard, put on always-tough Notre Dame The Miami Hurricanes were team held tight and managed jumper at 5: 15. Another Butler quite a show for the fans at the defense held Miami to .377 field faced with the prospect of being to keep the score close, trailing basket put the Irish down 53-48 ACC with her dribbling and goal shooting ( .273 in the first giant-killers when they visited by only seven (30-23) at the with 3:15 to go. passing -hitting her team­half) and outrebounded the the Notre Dame women's bas­half. Notre Dame's Annie mates trailing on the fast break 'Canes 47-36. But the pressure ketball team Saturday. It was An adjustment on defense by Schwartz scored six of her 12 with perfect passes between put on by Miami's quicker mission accomplished for the the 'Canes turned the game points in the final two minutes, her legs and over her head. team forced 26 Irish turnovers. 'Canes, who earned a hard­around. but Miami kept answering with Teammate Toni Smiley picked DiStanislao did not think the fought victory, 62-61, over the "They played a zone early free throws and fast-break bas­up the scoring for the 'Canes pressure wore down her team. Irish. on," said Irish coach Mary DiS­kets to hold on to the lead. with 20 points. "Of course, it is more ener­
Miami had to overcome a tre­tanislao. "Late in the first half Schwartz's baseline jumper at Bunek played another out­gizing to be winning than mendous Irish height advan­they switched to a match-up the buzzer was not enough as standing game for the Irish, losing, but we didn't get tired," tage. Notre Dame's starting and clogged up the middle on the Irish lost 62-61. working all afternoon to get she said. "We just made mis­lineup averaged 6 feet, includ­us." Coach DiStanislao said she open and scoring from the takes, and they took advantage ing three players 6-2 or taller. The adjustment worked was disappointed with her paint. She shot 10-of-15 from the of them." The tiny Hurricanes averaged again in a second half that was team's second half play. floor and finished with 22 "If Miami plays a 94-foot 5-7 and had no starters over 5-as physical as the game can "We deviated from our points. Bunek also pulled down game -their game -they can 
10. get. The Irish also began to game," she said. "We stopped 16 rebounds, tying her career beat anyone." 
The game was all Irish in the have trouble with the Hur­working inside and had too high. Diondra Toney scored 14 The Hurricanes improved early going, as they used a 10-ricanes' press, and Miami took many miscues. We let Miami for the Irish, and point guard their record to 9-11. The Irish, point run to take a 26-11 lead the lead for the first time 46-44 play its game." Mary Gavin added to her Irish who fell to 6-13, will travel to with 6:24 left in the first half. with 10:36 left in the contest. The Irish held the 'Canes All­all-time assist record with 11. the University of Detroit to Notre Dame was using its The teams traded the lead American Candidate Maria The Irish as a team shot .438 take on the Lady Titans Wed­height advantage, getting the until Miami's Hope Butler hit Rivera to 14 points (all in the (28-58) from the floor, but hurt nesday night. 
Track team gets no NCAA berths despite impressive performance 
By MOLLY MAHONEY however, that the experience Running his first collegiate Sports Writer will pay off down the road. 1000-yard race, freshman Mike One disappointment was the O'Connor placed third and fel­
The Notre Dame track team two-mile relay of sophomore low distance runner Ron has returned from battle with David Warth, senior Robert Markezich had his best outing the dreaded clock. Saturday Nobles, junior Nick Sparks, ever in the open mile, finishing the clock came out victorious and senior Jeff Van Wie, that second. as the Irish tried to qualify run­placed third and missed quali­The meet marked the first ners for the NCAA Champion­fying for the NCAA's by less time that freshman shot putter ships. The Irish failed to than two seconds. Tom Kraus was not able to qualify anyone for the NCAA's, "We didn't qualify," said completely dominate his com­but nonetheless performed well Warth, "But it's encouraging petition, even when not at his at Saturday's Blue-Orange because we know we'll come best as he did against Mic­
Classic in Champaign, Ill. along and be able to do it." higan, but he still finished 
"It went fairly well," said Juniors Tony Ragunas and fourth with a heave of 52'11 HeadCoachJoePiane, "Weran Tim Brown reached the finals against formidable opponents. against the several very good in the 60-yard dash and finished Freshman Glen Watson was teams and did reasonably 7th and 2nd overall in the 300, narrowly defeated in the 60­well." respectively. yard hurdles by a fraction of a 
The Irish ran against the The one-mile relay team of second and finished second. likes of Illinois, the best team Nobles, freshman Yan Searcy, The Irish will try to regroup, The Observer/Bob 1ones in the Big Ten, and Wisconsin, sophomore Chris McGuire, and hoping that next Saturday David Warth and the two-mile relay team missed qualifying for 
and were disappointed in the Warth had a strong race and when they face the clock again, the NCAA's by two seconds this weekend. Molly Mahoney covers outcome. They are confident, placed second. they will come out the victor. the rest of Notre Dame's frustrations at left. 






