-------~ -­
Little Sibs -page 6 


VOL. XXI, NO. 125 MONDAY, APRIL 13, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving ~otre Dame and Saint .\fa11's 

ND secretary struck by car near Stepan, condition still critical 
By CHRIS JULKA ward on Juniper Road east of Assistant News Editor Stepan Center when the inci­dent occurred at 9:57 p.m., 
A Notre Dame secretary was Rakow said. The car which listed in critical condition Sun­struck her was also heading day night after being struck by south, sweeping her off the a car near Stepan Center and road from behind, according to carried approximately 150 feet Rakow. The driver estimated on the car's hood the night he was driving at a rate of 30-35 before, according to Rex mph when his car struck her, Rakow, director of Notre Dame Rakow said. security. The driver of the car was a 
Karen Monroe, 36, a secre­73-year-old retired priest who tary at the Notre Dame infir­lives at Corby Hall. The driver mary for approximately ten was not under the influence of years and a native of Mis­
see STRUCK, page 4 
hawaka, was walking south-
Saint Mary's names Milligan as Class of '87 valedictorian 
By DEIRDRE FINN Milligan said that she didn't News Staff deliberately plan to achieve this honor. Senior Laura Milligan of Ar­"I just wanted to get the most 
lington Heights, Ill., was out of the school that I atten­named valedictorian of Saint ded," she said. Mary's class of 1987. As Milligan was a student recipient of this honor, Milligan teacher at Harris School in
The Observern'odd Tucker 
Campus Tour? will speak at the commen~e­Granger, Ind. The experience Taking a break between classes, Notre Dame and take advantage of the recent summer-like ment ceremonies on May 17. prepared her to take the Na­junior Marc Gleason and visiting high school weather. Milligan, an education tional Teachers Exam, which senior Kate Willard toss the books aside to chat major, earned the highest certifies her as a teacher. 
cumulative grade point She is presently interviewing average, 3.97, of the graduating in her hometown and expects


Police investigating death of baby 
class at Saint Mary's. The only to be notified at the end of May.criteria for this honor is to pos­She hopes to teach one of the sess the highest cumulative primary grades. 

left in box in school's janitor closet 
grade point average. Milligan said she was Milligan was notified of the suprised when she recieved 
Associated Press focus of an Indiana State Police mander of the state police post selection in a letter from Assis­news of the selection. investigation. at Jasper, said police are inter­tent to the Vice President, "I knew my grades were high A brief graveside service viewing each of the 180 students Teresa Marcy, of the Academic enough, but I didn't seriouslyFERDINAND, Ind. -The was held Tuesday in the St. at the Roman Catholic board­Mfairs Office. 
consider myself a candidate," mourners included the police Ferdinand Church cemetery -ing school for girls. She attriubuted her success she said. Milligan, who atten­chief, county coroner, a funeral a short distance from where the 
At this point in the investiga­to hard work, organization, and ded Rolling Meadows Highhome employee, but no known body was discovered last week tion, it is unknown whether the the help of her friends. School, was not valedictorianmembers of the family -when inside a plastic shopping bag in 
baby was born alive and would "I worked hard for this. My of her graduating class in high 
the remains of Baby John Doe a janitorial closet at Madonna have lived given proper care. education classes helped me to school. was buried last week. Hall, a dormitory at Marian 
An autopsy report is ex­be more organized," said Mil­In addition to her academicHeights Academy. pected to be filed with the ligan. "My friends helped a lot career, Milligan was a resident 
The circumstances of the The baby weighed 5 pounds, too. They pushed me when I
coroner in the next two weeks. assistent in Regina Hall last baby's death and the sequence 2 ounces and was 18 inches The autopsy was ordered by needed it, but they were there year and an an active partici­
long.
of events that followed the dis­Dr. George Nichols, Kentuck­to help me have a good time pant in several intramural 
covery of the infant are the Lt. George Lewallen, com-y's chief medical examiner. also." sports. 


Shultz meets advisers, hopes for arms treaty with USSR 
Associated Press 
HELSINKI, Finland-Secre­tary of State George Shultz met with a dozen U.S. arms control advisers Sunday to ready his response to new Soviet over­tures that might bring the Reagan administration closer to its first arms control agree­ment. 
Limited by President Reagan in other nuclear areas, Shultz hopes to clear a major obstacle to a treaty to rid Europe of medium-range mis­siles in talks opening today in Moscow. 
The barrier is the presence in East Germany, Czechos­lovakia and the Soviet Union of 130 shorter-range rockets that the United States and its North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies want the right to match. 

In two speeches, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev of­fered to negotiate a solution while the two sides complete an agreement to eliminate their other medium-range missiles from Europe. 
"I think it's some degree of movement, it's somewhat dif­ferent," said a senior U.S. offi­cial, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "But we certainly haven't achieved closure. There is a lot of work to be done." 
Shultz is unlikely to give the Soviets a final answer when he sees Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, beginning today and General Secretary Gorbachev, probably on Tues­day. 
"We propose to seriously dis­cuss this, try to work out an agreement," the official said. 
But he stressed the Soviet edge in the 350 to 600-mile range missiles was a serious issue to the West European allies and they must be con­sulted on the kind of cuts the United States would demand. 
"Mter all, this a matter of great importance to our allies," the official said. 
Of all the nuclear arms con­trol issues under negotiations, an agreement to rid Europe of hundreds of missiles in the 600 to 3,000-mile range is the closest to completion. 
It would be the first treaty to put a dent in the superpowers' 
nuclear weapons buildups in 
the more than six years 
Reagan has been president. 
In lengthy negotiations, the two sides decided basically to dismantle all but 100 warheads each. But the Reagan adminis­tration first wants the right to match the 130 shorter-range So­
viet rockets. 
The West Germans have 71 comparable missiles. The United States has none in Europe, but would like to con­vert some of the 108 Pershing 2 missiles now in West Ger­many to a shorter range weapon. 
The senior official said if the Soviets recognize a U.S. right to match their total equal ceilings could be set below 130. But, he said, "it was not cer­tain, by any means" that the allies would accept a total ban. 
Shultz' talks in Moscow are bound to be clouded by U.S. al­legations that the Soviets, with the collusion of some American Marine guards, infiltrated the 
U.S. Embassy with eavesdrop­ping devices. 
Shultz said Saturday he would confront the Soviets about "the severe hostile envi­ronment they set up." He said he and Reagan were "very up­set about what has happened." 
But Shultz has also vowed to pursue agreements with the Soviets on Euromissiles and on a troop withdrawal in M­ghanistan. 
---~~------------------------­
The Observer Monday, April 13, 1987 -page 2 


In Brief 
Howard's rectress has been named. Sister M.J. Griffin, rectress of Farley Hall announced Sunday night that she will be Howard Hall's rectress next year, accor­ding to Farley residents. Griffin made the announcement to Farley residents at an all-hall meeting after Sunday mass, the residents said. They also said no new rectress for Farley has been named. -The Observer. 

Of Interest 
"Juniors: How to Fill Out Your Profile Form" is the title of a presentation to be given by Kitty Arnold of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 7 in 123 Nieuwland. This presentation will be repeated Tuesday and Wednesday.-The Observer 
Coleman McCarthy, syndicated columnist for the Washington Post, will lecture on "Working for Social Jus­tice: Should We Bother" at 4:30 today in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Club of Washington, D.C. will be sponsoring a Big Brother-Big Sister Program for Notre Dame students coming to Washington this summer. Stu­dents will be matched with local alumni and alumnae, who can provide advice and information on housing, job hunting, and generally adjusting to life in Washington. Interested students should call or write to : Mary Beth Wachowski, 3013 Mosby St., Alexandria, VA 22305, (703) 549-5446 or Maura Kahn, 8201 Greensboro Dr., £708, McLean, VA 22102, (703) 847-0555. -The Observer 
Attention Juniors: The Alumni-Senior Club is accepting applications for employment until April 21. Ap­plications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office on the third floor of LaFortune. -The Observer 
"Teaching Peace in a Christian Context" will be the topic of an informal discussion led by Gov. John Gil­ligan tonight at 7:30 in the ISO Lounge.-The Observer 
English Department Colloquium Series sponsors Glenn Chatelier, who will share his experiences and pas­sage out of India today at 3:30 at Wilson Commons.-The Observer 
''Listening to the Laity,'' a special one-hour session on the roles of lay persons in the Catholic Church, will be held tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. The session is led by Most Rev. James Hoffman, Bishop of Toledo, and Dolores Leckey, executive director of the U.S. Bishop's Committee on the Laity. -The Observer 
SMC Triduum Liturgy Schedule is as follows: Holy Thursday, 5:00p.m.; GooaFriday, 3:00p.m.; Easter Vigil, 8:00 p.m.; Easter Sunday Eucharist, 11:00 a.m.; and Easter Sunday Vespers, 5:00p.m.; in the Church of 
Our Lady of Loretto, SMC. -The Observer 

Weather 
Watkin' on sunshine today with highs in the low to mid 60s. A 60 percent chance of showers tonight with a high around 50. A 70 percent chance of showers Tuesday and highs in the upper 50s. -Associated Press 
~----Ql 

ii''l 

-Ihe-Obse~~er--­
-------.L-=Y~ ---­
Design Editor .. . ..... Rob Luxem Design Assistant ............... Pete LaFleur Typesetter . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Buc ........................................... Daniel Cahill News Editor ....................... Regis Coccia Copy Editor ................. Diane Schroeder Sports Copy Editor......... Rick Rietbrock Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Matt Guye Accent Copy Editor .... Trisha Chambers Accent Layout ................ Ann Biddlecom Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy ............................................ Jim Winkler ND Day Editor ............... Beth Cornwell ........................................... Ron Almiron SMC Day Editor .... Theresa Harrington Ad Design................... Mary C. Creadon Photographer ..................... Todd Tucker 
Tbe Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except du~ng e_xam apd vacation period~. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the Uruvers1ty of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

What are we supposed to do? Administration should tell us 
It was another lost weekend. 
Yes, I, like many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, managed to do nothing so­cially constructive this weekend. Did some An Tostal work, wrote a paper, went to the movies to see Top Gun. That's about it. 
This seems to be quite common here. Ask ten people what they did over the weekend, and three will say "nothing much." Six will mention academics. One, maybe two, will mention dates. "Was it a good weekend?" 
"It was fun." 
"The usual." 
"It was all right." 
"Pretty blah." 

Afew columns back I waved flags and ranted and raved about guys on this campus not asking girls out, why they didn't, and why they should. But I have come to the stark realization that there is not all that much for a couple on a date to do on this campus. 
Yes, there are SYRs and formals. The latest rumor on campus is that the administration has taken a dislike to these forms of social activity. Something about an "unhealthy atmosphere." (As if ethanol weren't enough.) Whether the rumors are true or not, and I must say I find them hard to believe, hall dances are only twice a semester. That's if you can get a date. 
What else is there? Parties have been pretty much outlawed. The South Bend bar scene is not much to see, and if you're not twenty-one it's not worth the risk anyway. 
The library is becoming an increasingly popular spot on weekends. This is social life? Staring at some member of the opposite sex over a biology book? 
Many students sit around their dorm rooms on weekends. Wow. Miami Vice again. Maybe if you're lucky, there'll be a good movie on network television. Yeah, right. 
Speaking of movies, there's the infamous En­gineering Auditorium movie scene. But that gets old fast. 
I have been accused of picking on our school a bit much in these columns. But there is a point to all this. Really. 
The powers-that-be seem to think that the con­sumption of alcohol is not meaningful social interaction. They seem to think that the gather­ing of many students in a dorm room is not meaningful social interaction. They seem to think that dating is not meaningful social inter­action, if the rumors are true. They definitely think that sex or anything close to it is not meaningful social interaction. So what is so­cially acceptable and meaningful? Books? Movies? 
Well, we're college students. At most other schools around the country, and certainly in the media, drinking and parties and dates and yes, even sex are portrayed as the things college students do. 
Don't get me wrong. I am not saying that we should do all these things. But that is what our 
Mark -~ Mclaughlin ,,~, 
;I 

Projects Manager 
c4 'b 

culture tells us is normal. The administrations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have chosen to outlaw these activities. If they want to do that, that's their prerogative. 
But what are we supposed to do? 
I have no clue. 
So Father Ted, Father Malloy, Father Tyson, listen up. Goldrick, Cassidy, Lanan, please lis­ten. We don't know what you expect. We know what you don't want us to do, but that doesn't tell us what you do want done. Do you really expect us to sit in the library on Friday nights? Is that normal? Is that healthy? 
What is acceptable social activity around here? 
It seems that many of the ways that normal college students get together have been taken away here. We realize that we're not supposed to be normal college students. We're supposed to be mature, Catholic, brilliant workaholics. But we're not. We're not 45, we're 20. 
And we're confused. 
So administrators, please let us know what you expect. Spell it out. Put it in print. Write a column in The Observer or Scholastic. Write a letter to us. Treat us like the socially stunted college students we are. 
Please. 



~SENIOR MONTH~ 
From An Tostal until graduation, the Senior Class is sponsoring an event EVERY day. 
Senior Month booklets will be available when you register for Senior Week Activities. 
Sunday, May 1Oth Weddingless Reception $5.00 Monday, May 11th Dr. Bop &. the Headliners $4.00 Tuesday, May 12th Canoeing in St. Pat's Park $7.00 
SMC Luau $5.00 Wednesday, May 13th Chicago Trip (Lake Michigan Partyliner) $26.00 bus and boat $10.00 bus only 
REGISTRATION: Tuesday, April 21st and Wednesday, April 22nd 7 p.m. -9 p.m. Lafortune Lobby & Haggar Lobby 

The Observer Monday, April 13, 1987 -page 3 
Tanker spills deadly cargo of chemicals after derailing 
Associated Press and East End residents were awakened by wailing sirens 
PITTSBURGH-Throughout and police bullhorns. the city's East End, churches By daybreak, about 16,000 stood silent on Palm Sunday people had been evacuated, and thick stacks of newspapers many by city buses to a down­sat unsold in the rain while town convention center where about 16,000 evacuees waited Red Cross and Salvation Army for workers to remove a volunteers handed out free cof­derailed tanker's deadly fee and donuts and arranged a chemical cargo. Palm Sunday Mass. 
The tanker was among 34 railroad cars that toppled off "I want to go back home. But the tracks when a Conrail I'm scared to go back," said freight train en route to Antoinette Ricci, 43, who spent Chicago derailed and plowed the night in a chair with her into another freight train husband and two children. headed in the opposite direc­"I'll never forget this. It was tion Saturday afternoon. so frightening," said Nancy 
No serious injuries had been Weag, 33, as she sipped a cup reported by Sunday, although of coffee. 14 people were treated at hospi­Phosphorus oxychloride, a tals for breathing problems im­liquid used as an additive in mediately after the derail­gasoline and hydraulic fluid, ment. turns to vapor in the air and 
People living within 2.6 miles can be lethal in heavy con­of the accident were advised to centrations, said Glenn Can­leave their homes immedi­non, the city's public safety ately, but were allowed back director. It also reacts six hours later after the leak violently with water. was plugged. They were told to be out of the area again by noon The other railroad tankers Sunday, when emergency were hauling a variety of crews would attempt to remove chemicals, including toxic the derailed tanker. toluene diisocyanate, a flam­
Shortly after midnight, mable substance that can ir­however, the chemical began ritate the lungs, skin and eyes seeping again from the tanker when touched or inhaled. 

--·•:H•••r.... ofthe Castle Men's Hairstyling $6student $8.50 cvmpletestyle 
MINufES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
......,_...........,................. 
C.at• ...• ..ala •••••-... Not HOIUe
..._ _..a "L 11_.0 cww..._..........., 

DEPAUL 
UNIVFRSITY 

SCHOOL OF ACCOUNTANCY 
REVIEW COURSE FOR THE NOVEMBER 1987 CPA EXAMINATION 
JUNE 15-0CTOBER 30, 1987 
TilE  THE  
FACULTY  LAB SESSIONS  
TilE  TilE  
COVERAGE  PASS RATE  
THE  THE  
APPROACH  MEDALS  

Classes meet Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, or Tuesday, Thursday evenings and Saturday mornings. Classes held at DePaul's Loop Campus. Call 341-8640 for information. 
School of Accountancy DePdul University 25 E. jackson Boulevard Chicago, Illinois 60o04-2289 
l'lease send me a brochure and admission trom the Dt•Paul University CPA Revil'W Course. 
N<~mt·----------------
Addrt·~~ --------------­
City------Stall' __ Zip----­
·----------------------------------------------~ 


The Observer Monday, April13, 1987-page 4 
Surrogate poll shows favor 
Security Beat 
for Baby M judge's decision 


The Observerll'odd Tucker 
the year event for Saint Mary's resident assis­tants. The fashionable use of toilet paper was part of an anything-goes contest. 
Thursday 
9:30 p.m. -A resident of Holy Cross Hall reported that his bookbag was taken from the South Dining Hall during the dinner hour. Total value was listed at $210. An employee found the bookbag with all of its contents early Friday morning in Badin Laundry. 
Friday 
1:00 p.m. -An off-campus student re­ported that an AM¥M cassette stereo was removed from his vehicle while it was parked in the C-1 lot. The stereo was valued at $300. 2:25p.m.-Security officers responded to a call of a female employee having an insulin reaction. Paramedics were called and treated the employee. She was then transported home. 
Saturday 
1:30 a.m. -An Alumnus was ap­prehended after illegally entering campus by breaking the Saint Mary's Road gate arm. 
3:03a.m. -Security responded to a cali of someone breaking into the Law building. When officers arrived they discovered glass panes broken from the west main entrance doors. An in­toxicated visitor was laying inside the building, on the floor. The subject had vomited and had blood on his hand. The subject refused medical treat­ment and was then turned over to a responsible party. 
1:55 p.m. -An on-campus female stu­dent reported that she had received several obscene and harassing phone calls during the early morning hours. 
3:45p.m. -An off-campus student re­ported that her watch, valued at $50, was taken from outside a racquetball court at the ACC. 7:00p.m.-A Keenan Hall resident re­ported that his blue jean jacket and wallet were taken from Stepan Field. Value is estimated at approximately $130. 7:57p.m.-Security officers responded to a personal injury accident involving a pedestrian and vehicle on Juniper east of Stepan Center. The victim was transported by paramedics to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
Sunday 

2:42p.m. -A Holy Cross resident re­ported that his vehicle had been damaged by an unknown vehicle while it was parked in the D-6lot. Estimated damage to the vehicle is $200. 
"Mummy" Dearest 
Clare Van Heeke, far left, Megan McMonigle, center, and their unrecognizable friend partic­ipate Sunday in "Mandatory Fun", an end-of-
Strock 
continuedfrom page I 
alcohol when the incident oc­
curred, said Rakow. 
Monroe is currently under in­
tensive care at St. Joseph's 
Hospital of South Bend. 
The secretary suffered 
"severe head injuries," Rakow 
said. Hospital orderlies said 
they were unable to any reveal 
further information on her con­
dition. 
Monroe was heading for the 
Jazz Festival in Stepan Center, 
having parked her car in White 
Field on the east side of Juniper 
Road 
University Hair Stylists 

Pau{ :M.itcfie{{ & Se6astian Products 
EXTENDED HOURS 
Mon-Wed--8 A.M.-8 P.M. Fridays--8 A.M.-8 P.M. Thursdays--8 A.M.-10 P.M. Saturdays--9 A.M.-5 P ..M. Located in the Basement of LaFortune *** WALK-INS WELCOME *** 

ICAMPUS VIEW APTS I 

Furnished Utilities Paid 

Now taking applications for summer leasing Ph. 272-1441 
' J 
··~ 
'JI.&~itJLS & 

Comp{ete fine of 6facl( fiair care products 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Almost three out of four Americans support a judge's decision in the Baby M case to turn the child of a surrogate mother over to her father, according to a poll pub­lished Sunday. 
The New York Times-CBS News Poll reported that 74 per­cent of the 1,045 adults inter­viewed by telephone from April 5 through April 8 said the baby should go to the biological fa­ther, William Stern, whose sperm was used. 
Fifteen percent said the child 
Dorm fire started in prank; 1 student killed, 2 arrested 
Associated Press 
DOVER, Del. -A fire in a Wesley College dormitory was started early Sunday by a smoke bomb, which apparently was set off as a prank, and an 18-year-old student died when he was trapped in his room by smoke, police said. 
Four others were injured, one critically, police said. Two students were arrested in con­nection with the fire, which started between 2 and 2: 30 a.m. 
known in court as Baby M should go to her surrogate mot­her, Mary Beth Whitehead, ac­cording to the poll. 
Whitehead signed a sur­rogate contract with Stern and his wife Elizabeth, but changed her mind after giving birth. 
A new Jersey judge stripped Whitehead of parental rights and ruled that Stern should have custody, and Mrs. Stern was allowed to adopt the baby, who the Sterns named Melissa. 
Sixty-nine percent of those polled said surrogate mothers should have to abide by agree­ments they had signed. 
in Williams Hall at the down­town Dover campus, according to police. 
The smoke bomb was set off on the second floor of the dorm, according to the police report. The device started a small fire, and firefighters evacuated the smoke-filled buiding. 
One room had heavy damage, and the rest of the building was heavily damaged by smoke, police said. It was not known how many people were inside the building. 

f/0
~---~.,1
!L APPLICA11oNS 

'W?AR AAE No'tJ AVAILABLfi AI ~ OA=.c€ Of Swoe~r Ac:n vfft€5 
) 

~lRJ> ~ UhP..TlJWE J ~ 
APPLICAilotJS ARE DUE Tl;E!S~" I .APRIL. 14 
-.v •• ,. ••. 


View~_o_i_n_t________
M-onday_,Ap-ril13_,
198-7-p-age5 

P.O.BoxQ 
Graduate School was judged inadequately 
Dear Editor: 
The March 31 guest column by Chris­topher Ryan raised some interesting points, but at the same time made some fallacious inferential leaps which war­rant comment. Mr. Ryan, citing 1984 ratings of Economics faculties, stated that in terms of the number of publica­tions, Notre Dame's Economics Depar­tment ranked 12lst. Based on these rankings, he then went on to discuss the poor performance of the graduate faculty as as whole. 
But does the ranking of one depart­ment reflect on graduate studies as a whole? The answer should be a defin­tive "no." Moreover, publications are not the only mark of quality faculty. If this were the only criterion of quality, graduate students would indeed suffer. 
Finally, while I do not profess to be an expert in economics and, in fact know little about the Department of Economics at Notre Dame, I am cog­nizant of the fact that in most disci­plines it is extremely difficult to be published in the top journals. 
As a final note, Father Malloy has expressed an interest in improving graduate studies at the University of Notre Dame. Perhaps Mr. Ryan should withdraw his indictment of the graduate faculty until Father Malloy 
has  an  opportunity  to  actualize  his  
plans.  
Thomas A. Petee  
Off-Campus  

Men make up for less aid in earning power 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Chris Julka's March 25 editorial concerning discrimination against women and the loss of his fin­ancial aid, I would like to inform him that women earn less than 50 cents for every dollar that men make. Whether Mr. Julka likes it or not, his vastly higher earning power does not entitle him to be as financially needy, because higher-paying jobs are available to him even now for the reason that he is male. It's terrible being so advantaged, isn't it? 
Mr. Julka has not been "robbed" of 
Doonesbury 
I'M BACK, 1HE.Y'!?E ON YOlJR. GR.E.TOfl {}E!'j/(, SIR. IAJHB?E 
OANCINS! 
ITOLf) YOU.' 
ANY CALLS? HAVt YOU 8CU1 
~ AU. /?AY? ""­
\ 
anything. Rather, his sisters have not been forced to make a contribution to their education that would have been much more difficult for them to earn because of wage discrimination. I would also like to suggest to Mr. Julka that in the future, he try to demonstrate the abilities of a Notre Dame scholar by researching his material before writing another such poorly-informed, reactionary, and self-pitying article. 
Megan Rochford Off-Campus 
Evaluation of faculty should be qualitative 
Dear Editor: 
I was appalled to read Christopher Ryan's March 31 column concerning the quality of Notre Dame's graduate program and the quality of the Notre Dame faculty in relation to its pay scale. Although I agree with the con­tention that the graduate program re­quires a great deal of improvement if it wishes to compete with the more renowned universities, I found his arti­cle outrageous and insulting. Further­more, Ryan's proposed solution of com­pensating production rather than seniority would not only be of very lim­ited effect in improving the graduate program, but would also destroy the excellence of the undergraduate pro­gram which he so clearly illustrated with a barrage of statistics. His demand for printed matter as the pri­mary criterion for professional com­petence is indicative of an increasing prevalent bias both inside and outside of academia which avidly ascribes to this quantitative method of evaluation rather than a qualitative one because of its reassuringly tangible nature. 
I profoundly resent his use of my status as a Rhodes Scholar to prove the excellence of Notre Dame as an insti­tution while discrediting the very people who are responsible for my achievement. His implication is that Notre Dame undergraduates succeed despite a faculty which is not "worthy of its alumni, worthy of its undergradu­ates, worthy of its pay." How exactly does Ryan imagine that the two of us managed to become Rhodes Scholars? Certainly not because we were able to pick up various journals and publica­tions and discover the "new ideas" written by the prolific faculty of the more illustrious institutions. Had my professors been even more pressured to publish than they presently are, they could never have offered me the generous amounts of time, attention and support which I received from them. During my four years at Notre Dame, I incurred profound intellectual and emotional debts to the faculty which Ryan finds overpaid and mediocre. 

Why, in his statistics and publishing output, does Ryan focus only on the rating of the economics faculty rather than that of a more recognized depar­tment? The philosophy faculty, for ex­ample, has achieved a world wide reputation. The attitude of certain administrators, represented by Gor­don's remark, "We are not in the top ten and we never will be but that's not our goal," is unfortunate and a major hindrance to the development of com­petitive graduate research programs. This statement was made, however, in 1983 and Ryan's use of it contradicts the opening of his article in which he states that the administration's key ob­jective, as mandated by the alumni and trustees is to "administer a graduate program of scholarship and research the equal of (an) already excellent un­dergraduate program." 
The solution is not simply to channel the faculty's energy away from teach­ing and from the students and to redirect it into research. Notre Dame must convert scholars of wide repute if it wishes to be taken seriously as a graduate institution. A pay scale based on productions rather than seniority may inititally attract them, but would not necessarily induce them to stay, nor would it encourage them to devote their energy to their students. A factor which deters both professors and students from coming to Notre Dame is a widespread suspicion that the Catholic environment inhibits freedom of intel­lectual and artistic impression. The recent controversy of Curran at Cath­olic University and the Student Activi­ties Board's heavy-handed censoring of the Juggler and Scholastic do little to discredit this belief. 
The administration must reexamine its priorities not only in terms of the graduate program's faculty, but also in terms of its students. Intellectually ag­gressive and dedicated students are es­sential in order to challenge and stim­ulate the faculty. The professors must consider their students worthy invest­ments of time and energy for both par­ties to benefit. 
If, however, Ryan's shortsighted so­lution does win favor among the powers that be and production is instituted as the deciding factor of intellectual abil­ity and vigor in the Malloy era, let us hope that the administration will not lose sight of the goal of educating and will make the appropriate gestures. These will include increasing the budget of Notre Dame University Press in order to boost its own productivity and not discriminating against the publications of its faculty members which are issued by the less renowned, but equally respectable presses in an age of surfeit in the publishing world. 
Tess Doering Class of '86 Rhodes Scholar 


" I OON'T Kt-ON, BJSWICK. MA'If:£ tiOS:OIJ'S JUSTGETTitt;lD ~.... BUT I-lA~ YOJ EVfR WJMik.Rm .AEOJT nus t>SHfRJ\.'1? " 
Garry Trudeau 
MAYBE. A TAOG!POY. Y.S. THAT
ARE YOU 
ANYONe IAJAITING 6UYFROM
Fta..!NG 
7V 5EE Me? 7HES.E.C.
OIC4Y,5/R? 
~ 
' "' 

Quote of the day 
"Who loves not woman, wine and song remains a fool his whole life long." 
Martin Luther (1483-1546) 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Ed1tor-in-Chief .. .. ............. Kevin Becker Business Manager....... .. ... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor.. ....... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager.. ....... Michael Whi"on News Editor. . ........ Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager.. . . . .. . .. . Melinda Chapleau News Editor.. . .. ............. .. .............. Jim Riley Production Manager. . ............. Melissa Warnke 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univers1ty Viewpomt Ed1tor .... .. .................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager ....................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the polic1es Sports Editor. .. ........ Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .. .. .. . .. ... ........ Shawn Sexton of the admm1strat1on of 811her mst1tu11on The news IS reponed as accurately and ObJeCtively Accent Editor . . . . . . .. . . .. .. .. . .. Michael Naughton Controller .............. ....................... Tracy Schindele as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the maJOrity of the Editonal Board Saint Mary's Editor .......... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ............. Laura Stanton Commentanes. le"ers and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column Photo Ed1tor.. . .................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ................ Michael Shannon space IS available to all members of the community and the free expresSIOn of varying op1n1ons on campus. through le"ers. IS encouraged Founded November 3,1966 
Accent 
Monday, April13, 1987-page 6 


strengthens family ties 
Christine Gregory Assistant Accent Editor 
The idea was born last Thanks­
giving. After numerous written 
proposals, revisions and votes, 
there was approval in early 
March. The sophomore class had 
only a few weeks to make their 
idea a reality. They needed to 
send out letters, reserve rooms, 
order food,and obtain speakers 
because they were sponsoring 
"Little Sibs Weekend.'' 
On Friday afternoon, about 45 little brothers and sisters, ran­ging in age from 12-15, arrived on campus to spend a weekend with their sophomore siblings. This was the first time since 198.3 that such an event had occured at Notre Dame. That year, there were no set registration policies, the scheduled events were few in number, and the amount of people who showed up doubled the expected amount--that is, al­most 1500 instead of 700. The most significant aspect of Notre Dame life seen by the young visitors was the social life--and this was before the alcohol policy went into effect. Needless to say, the administration was not eager to see the event repeated. 
Until this year. The Sophomore 
Advisory Council worked hard to 
develop a proposal that would 
change the minds of those in the 
Student Affairs office. Dan Ripper 
was named chairman of the 
weekend. He, along with sopho­
more class officials and council 
members, took their first at­
tempt at a proposal to the rectors 
to get some initial feedback. 
The apprehensions revolved around the fact that the little sibs might be too young to be on a college campus. Rectors were also anxious about the fact that the fiasco of '8.3 could be repeated if certain precautions were not taken. In fact, they even questioned the need to have a Little Sibs Weekend at all. 
But the SAC persevered. Rip­per pointed out that the family spirit, indigeneous to Notre Dame, could be manifested per­fectly in such a weekend. Mem­bers of the SAC rewrote the pro­posal, using rectors' comments, input from the sophomore class, and research on past Little Sibs Weekends. Both the Student Senate and the Campus Life Council passed it unanimously. It was ready for the Office of Stu­dent Affairs. After 45 minutes of review, the proposal was passed. Sophomore Liitle Sibs Weekend was ready to go. 
Although adequate publicity was difficult because of the late approval date, 45 or 50 sop­homores signed up the week after spring break. This was fine with the SAC, who considered it "a comfortable number given the short lead time there was to or­ganize the weekend." Other com­plications included the fact that the Jazz Festival was this weekend and several dorms held SYR's--something no little sib was permitted to attend. 
There were enough activities planned, however, that no one thought twice about missing a dance. Friday night, "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" was shown at the Library Auditorium. Saturday's events lasted from morning until night. 
It's really special 
'' 

to do something 
with your little 
sibling without 
your parents 
around.'' 
-------------­Little sibs had the opportunity to meet some Notre Dame athletes 
and cheerleaders. Then it was on to Theodore's for a box lunch and performance by the Notre Dame chorale. The afternoon featured Fun and Games at the ACC including dodgeball, water balloon toss,and volleyball. 
After a couple free hours, during which sophomores took their sibs to Bookstore Basket­bali games, the Jazz Festival, the bookstore, or just back to the dorm for a relaxing visit, the group met at the South Dining Hall for a semi-formal dinner. In the evening. the featured event was Casino Night (also in the Dining Hall). Participants were supplied with play money and given the opportunity to try their luck at blackjack, craps, and poker. The winning team of sophomore and sib each received a $20 gift certificate for the bookstore. Four runner-up teams received $10 certificates. Throughout the night, the crowd was entertained by the music of Vatican Ill. 
Sunday morning dawned (rainy ofcourse),so the mass that had been scheduled at the Grotto was instead held in Lewis Hall's chapel. Father Lardner of Grace was the celebrant. The last event of the weekend was a brunch in North Dining Hall. 
Only one of the events was mandatory. That was Friday night's movie, because the gat­hering functioned, as a welcom­ing and orientation. The only other rule that had to be followed was that under no circumstances could the little sibs be at events which included alcohol. Besides this, there was a check-in time at midnight Friday and 12:.30 Sat­urday. "This is not meant to be a 'bed-check'," clarified Ripper. "We just want to insure that everyone is safe at the end of the evening." 
All in all, the weekend can be considered a success, at least in the eyes of the participants. "It's really special to do something with your little sibling without your parents around," said one sophomore. "It teaches you re­sponsibility because you have to look out for them but it also makes you closer.'' Added a member of the SAC, "It's a good excuse to invite your sib up for the weekend. There are things to do with them and you know other people are going to have their little sibs around, too." 
A sibling relationship is not the only thing enhanced during the weekend. "This is good for the class," asserted Ripper. "Juniors have JPW, seniors have Com­mencement,and freshmen are still getting settled. There are no big events for the sophomore class to really get involved ln. This strikes me as a perfect one for increasing class unity." 
Does this mean that Sopho­more Little Sibs Weekend will again become an annual event, as it is on many other college campuses? No one can say for sure yet. Ripper will seek com­ments and suggestions from all those who were involved, so as to compile a report for next year's sophomore class presi­dent. That way, if the Class of 1990 is Interested, they will have something to start with, which may make It easier to get the weekend approved. The late date this year made participation, or­ganization, and funding chal­lenging. Ifthe event is made def­inite early in the year, much of the planning and preliminary ef­forts will be easier. 
For Ripper, the chaotic pace of the last three weeks paid off. He gives a lot of credit to the SAC, saying that there is no way one person could have handled the whole event. He felt the weekend was well received by rectors, little sibs, sophomores,and parents. "It's really great to see people enjoying themselves as a result of your efforts," he said. And it seems that everyone did. 
A 
II My Children: Joanna 
knocked Erica out and 
bound and gagged her. 
Travis launched an investiga­
tion into Erica's disap­
pearance. Natalie thought 
she may be pregnant by 
Ross. Tom offered to be 
Mark's sponsor in his drug 
rehabilitation. Coming: Pal­
mer makes an assumption 
about Natalie's feelings for 
him. 
Another World: Lisa had a 
premonition of Cheryl being 
in danger. Quinn became 
the killer's latest victim. 
Chad found her body and 
was arrested for her murder. 
Mitch told Felicia he never 
felt he was good enough for 
her. Donna underwent hyp­
nosis and recalled that the 
person in the photo was 
John Hudson. Coming: The 
killer prepares to strike 
again. 
As The World Turns: Meg 
continued to fret over the 
way Tanio attempted to end 
their relationship. Lisa had 
mixed emotions about the 
way Earl was adjusting to 
running Brian's newspaper. 
John began to have mixed 
emotions over his recent 
decision. Coming: Lyla faces 
an unpleasant truth about 
living with Casey. 
Bold & Beautiful: Carotin 
continued to fence with 
Ridge whose feelings for her 
were becoming stronger. 
Ridge also continued to feel 
the new fashion line lacked 
sufficient sex appeal in spite 
of Eric's obvious disinterest , in his claim. Katie had fan­
tasies of a special romance. 
Coming: Brooke's fear nearly 
overcomes her deter­
mination to get all the 
answers. 
Days of Our Lives: Patch 
was found guilty of shooting 
Duke but Adrienne recalled 
she did it in self-defense. 
Patch was released. Kayla, 
however, was confused when 
he rejected her again. 
Roman was startled to learn 
Olivia had duped him and 
was working for Orpheus. 
Hope gave birth to a boy. 
Paul overheard Glllian telling 
Grace she intended to ·go to 
New York to suprise Shane. 
Melissa and Mike cheered 
Maggie who was growing 
more scared about her con­
dition. Coming: Paul is 
forced into an unwanted sit­
uation. 
Falcon Crest: Richard 
planned a trip for Maggie to 
help her overcome her 
melancholia. Angela learned 
Melissa's secret. Emma 
trapped Karlotti with plans 
for a church wedding. Chase 
decided to file for divorce. 
Coming: Tony learns new 
facts about Kit. 
General Hospital: Cory's 
CAT-scan revealed arterial 
brain damage. Sean and 
Wolfgang thwarted Edward's 
plan to find out what's going 
on. Tiffany discovered Sean 
and Greta kissing. Bobble 
was upset when Jake ad­
mitted fathering Lucy's un­
born child. Jake learned 
Duke hit Mark in self­
defense. Coming: Sean fol­lows a hunch based on 
Greta's story. 
Guiding Light: Lillian ran into a complication as she tried to adjust to her new job as hospital administra­tor. Alex was determined not to let Alan get away with his plans. Jackson's recollec­tions of Christine became clearer. Chelsea seemed up­set at Philip's continuing preoccupation with his work. Coming: The past overtakes Christine. 
Knots Landing: Mac used an ingenious method to let Anne know where she stands in his life and was shocked by her reaction. Olivia tried to give Senator Holister Syl­via's letter. Ben swallowed his pride and asked Abby for his job back. Coming: Ben makes a drastic decision. 
Loving: Cabot insisted he killed Nick to save Trisha. Clay and Shana square off about his meeting with the board members. Curtis told Lottie he had unfinished business with Eban. Ned was ignored by April. Steve told Trisha he'll ask Cecilia for a divorce. Coming: Cecilia begins to find a friend in Tony. 
One Life to Live: Maria tried to turn off Vickie's life­support system but was un­able to move the switch. Jamie tied up Cassie and threatened her life. Cord proposed to Kate who ac­cepted and immediately started making plans for their wedding. Coming: Judith and Herb realize they must act quickly. 
Ryan's Hope: Zena began telling Jack the truth about her background. Dakota was shattered by the news about Melinda's illness. Ryan in­sisted that Rick tell her why he really married her. The Ryans were delighted at . news of John's engagement to Lizzie. Roger and Maggie made progress toward a reconciliation. Coming: Jack learns new facts about Zena. 
Santa Barbara: Cruz was stunned to learn Eden had been pregnant for six weeks when the doctor told him the accident caused her to miscarry. Tori told Mason her baby would survive. Gina told Keith she was going to see Dr. Nikolas. Keith told her he wants to benefit from Nikolas' wonder drug. Cruz had a nightmare that Eden was lying buried in a snow drift. Coming: C.C.'s jealousy over Lionel upsets Sophia. 
The Young & The Rest· less: Traci's insecurities about Jill and Brad grew. Kay kept pushing for Cricket to get more involved with Philip. Paul tried to believe Lauren was really over her anger about the way his mother tried to run their lives. John continued to show Jack he approved of Ellen, but Jack remained un­certain about whether to persuade her to make a commitment to him or not. Coming: Steve worries about Ashley's progress. 
1 987McNaught Syndicate 
The Observer Monday, April 13, 1987 -page 7 
Shorter leads 
Sports Briefs East to win 
Bookstore Basketball referees will have a mandatory meeting Monday, April13, at 7 p.m. in LaFor­tune Little Theatre. Referee shirts, whistles, rules and schedules will be distributed. For more information, call Warren Berry at 283-1206. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVI is still looking for more paid referees. Anyone interested should contact War­ren at 283-1206 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team lost two of its three games against Tulane this weekend. The Irish split a doubleheader Saturday, losing the first game, 11-3, and taking the second, 8-6. Tulane won yesterday's game, 7-1. Details appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The Irish Spring Runs were held yesterday with winners in lO categories named. In the three-mile run, the winners and times were: John Whelpley, undergraduate men, 16:46, Ellen Mouch undergraduate women, 22:54, Rick Tighe, graduate men, 15:40, Kelly Lowry, graduate women, 34:25, and Scott Mainwairing, faculty men, 16:40. In the six-mile run, the winners were: Jeff Miller, under­graduate men, 33:52, Anne Ducey, undergraduate women, 41:08, Paul Matousek, graduate men, 32:29, Diane Hem­ker, graduate women, 47:58, and Tim Morningstar, faculty men, 34:49. -The Observer The bicycle club will have group rides for beginning and experienced riders starting from the Administration Building at 3:45p.m., today through Friday. Everyone is welcome. -The Observer 
In the NUL playoffs yesterday, the New York Rangers beat Philaaelphia, 6-3, Washington beat the New York Islanders, 4-1, Quebec downed Hartford, 4-1, Montreal eliminated Boston, 4-2, Toronto defeated St. Louis, 2-1, Detroit knocked out Chicago, 3-1, Edmonton topped Los Angeles, 6-3, and Winnipeg outlasted Calgary, 4-3. -Associated Press 
In NBA action yesterday, Boston topped New York, 119-107, Atlanta drilled New Jersey, 115-88, Washington beat Detroit, 103-98, Chicago defeated Indiana 116-95, and Portland knocked off the Los Angeles Clippers, 113-100. -Associated Press 
The SMC track team defeated both Marion and Franklin College at home Saturday. -The Observer 
The SMC softball team's gameagainstSt.Francis Saturday was rained out. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Univer­sity of Pittsburgh-bound Brian Shorter scored 24 points, in­cluding 10 in the opening four minutes of the second half, to lead the East to a 118-110 win over the West in the McDonald's All American High School Basketball Game. 
Mark Macon, a Temple­bound senior from Saginaw, Mich., scored 14 points for the East and was named the John Wooden Most Valuable Player as the East won its third straight game to even the se­ries at 5-5. 
Chicago's Marcus Liberty scored 20 points to lead the West. 
The tournament, televised nationally, celebrated its lOth anniversary by returning to the city where it began. During the decade, 73 players appearing in the game have gone on to play in the NBA. 
lbe oa.-ww Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday_ lbe QtJ..,. Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12;30 p.m. unlll3 p.m., Monday through Friday_ Deadline for next~ay classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per live
Classifieds characters per day_ 
NOTICES 
SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $319 Lowest Scheduled A~rFares to all of Europe Call 1(800) 325-2222 dept. 518. 
Typ1ng Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
PRO-TYPE Quality work. word proceaalng availability, reaaonable S. 277-5833. 
Wordprocess1ng-Typ1ng 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 
UNIVERSITY RESUME Proteeelonal Reaume• Student Rataa Near the Malt 272-6338 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
HELPI Need ride to & from MPLS. MN for Easter W1ll share expenses. Call Fsr~s at 1873 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost: A blue Totes umbrella on 3'26 at the poet off1ce at approximately 1 0·45 
a.m If found, please call T1m at x4073. 
LOST 20-1nch gold cha1n on Stepan Courts last Wednesday. 4-I during Bookstore game. If found, please call Vin at £2159 
FOUND ONE BLACK FUTURA DIGITAL WATCH. FOUND IN STEPAN FIELD. PLEASE CALL £2873 TO IDENTIFY. 
You borrowed my calculator 1n the ter· m1nal room at the computer bUilding and did'nl return II. call Mathew at 2323575 
LOST LIGHT BROWN LEATHER WAL­LET. POSSIBLY LOST IN SOH, PLEASE CALL MICHAEL MORAN £2199, REWARD! 
LOST· one new leather Indoor-outdoor MacGregor BASKETBALL on Tues 7 April affer 6'15 game It wasn't even mine; I borrowed It from a good fr1end and would REALLY like to return 11. So If you have it and are an HONEST Domer PLEASE CALL STEPHANIE AT 277­8241. THANKSI!fl 
LOST Black Wallet. at Sen1or Bar Wed. n~ght-ID's, photos, etc. of sentimental value Much apprec1ated If returned Call Conn1e 277-3545. Reward 
FOUND· Woman's wedding band, out­Side law school Call Gary at 234-8984. 
FOUND· Sunglasses 1n front of B-P Thurs n1ghl Call 2187 or stop by 225 Grace 
FOUND: AIWA headset in cash1er off1ce t ()14 call matt at 1882 to Identify and claim 
FOR RENT 
8 bedroom 4·6 students $400'.i00 & utilities Security system 234 6688 
SUM STOR:all belonings(lncl fur)saf~ecure Bill M.23274 16 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­8889 
House available June 1st for long-term lease. $40Q.!no. 277-7121 before 9pm 
FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277­36841.!88-0955 
3 BEDROOM APART For 87-88 school year Partially Furnished$ 45Q.!no. CALL 233 6298 
SUMMER SPECIALII 3 Bedroom Apart­ment$ 300lno. avail. in fall for $ 45Q.!no. CALL 233 6298 
87-88.4 BEDROOM CARPETED. 282­2881 
WANTED 
GOING TO PERDUE? 
TWO STUDENTS NEED RIDE 
TOI'ROM LAFAYETIE EASTER 
WEEKEND PLEASE CALL 
LAURE£2769 
.................... 

RIDE NEEDED TO NY 
I can leave Wed 4115 for Easter. Call Jim 
X1157. 

I NEED GRAD TIX PLEASE HELPIII X1549 
Desperately Seek1ng Grad. Tics. If You Think You Might Have Extras Please Call Joa a £1737. Thanks. 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO TUESDAY, APRIL t 4. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL MAUREEN AT 4281. 
DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M 
NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA 
AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND f 
NEED A PlACE TO LIVE. THIS Will 
BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. 
IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CAll 
MIKE AT 282-3727. 

....................... 
Despeately need ride to NYJNJ, leaving 
4116 and returning 41.!1. Please call Scott 
at 3175. 

Bass player sought for rock and roll band. Preferably underclassman. Musical inter­ests Include: Who, U2, Kinks. Cars. Pollee, Stones, Beatles, Van Halen, Rush, Zeppelin. Call Pete at 4644 or Kurt at 3175 for more information. 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21e, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshires. WSI, arts&crahs, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pian<>Piay for shows. judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, guitar, radio, v1deo,archery, year­book, woodworking, AN and typists. Write:Camp Emerson, 5 Brass1e Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779­9406. 
Ride needed to Cincinnati Thursday. Call Chris at 2445. 
Here for the summer and need a plac• to stay? I need one female roomate to share Turtle Creek apt. Call SMC-5239 if Interested. 
Ryder Truck Inc. 2715 N. Bendix, South Bend Two part time positions open for working in the rental dept. good com­unicatlon skiiiS'bffice profes­sionalismtontracl skills required. Excel­lent pa)l'20-35 hr..Wk. great opportunil'fl!xperience for a college stu­dent. Taking applications now. Call 277­3550, ask for Ed Norkus. 
MARQUETIE: NEED RIDE FOR EASTER. CALL ROB-1821 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio for Easter Break. Willing to help pay for gas. Please call Pete at 4644. 
Need ride to CHICAGO and back over Easter WEEKEND (Sat & Sun) X4311 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT ­fisheries. Earn $600 plu&Week in can­nery, $8,000-$12,000 plus for two months on fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary, Male or Female.. Get the early start that is necessary. For 52-page employment booklet. send $5.95 to: M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 
SUMMER JOBS All LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CAll COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­INGS 914-381-4224. 
R1de needed to UPSTATE NEW YORK for Easter. Help me and I can help you GENEROUSLY. Mike 3121. 
Are you travelling 1-80 past Youngstown for Easter? I need a ride for 2 on Thurs. 411 6 after t 2 noon. Call Dave 1049. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: THE lOFT TO END ALL LOFTS Called "the second floor" by Its current owner, Thisloh has everything. A siderall to keep you from falling down, a steel ladder to keep you going up, a shelf up top to hold your clock, candle, etc. Must see to believe, but If you're inter­ested call 284-5125 and ask for Gertie. 
81' OMNI,4DR .. LOW MILES, AUTO TRANS,AIR, CALL 234-3792. 
1986 TREK BIKE for sale. Best offer. 
Call Pat 277-8535 
............................... 
OCiassical guitar. Yamaha G 231 wtase, 
axel cond $120, call Ron Large 284-4613, 
288-5236 
TICKETS 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Need one graduation ticket. I am gett1ng 4, but I have 2 parents and 3 brothers and sisters. Can't leave my little sister at home. Please call DON at 3675 Will Pay $$ 
Need Graduation Tix--2 Do not need to be together. Will Pay $$ I am desperate Call MIKE at 3640 

PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WANT TO BE A DRUID? 
Just call 4074 and ask lor the Archdruid. Big ceremonies after break. Help start spring again and vanquish Old Man Win­ter. 
spring shall arrive . 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing available lor all US states. 
LARGEST selection ol Clilf.-Monarch Notes in Michianal Bu\f'Sell---textbooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
Are you going to be here for SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
If so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues of the newspaper. The jobs are varied and, If you are inter­ested in newspaper training In your spare time, call The Observer offices and ask for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
The Observer 
and 

Special Olympics 
NEEDS YOUIII 

GLNOOMC -For information. write to: 
Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
AVON Spring-Summer Colors Save $$$ call 287-1032 
SMC-ND LONDON-ROME SUMMER PROGRAMS Beginning May 20 Organizational Mealing April 13, 7:00 pm 349 Madeleva Hall Vlaa Plcturea Available lor Information call Prof. A.R. Black 284-4480(olllca) 272-3726(homa) 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: "HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM" KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PlACEMENT SERVICES 7:00 P.M. TONIGHT. 
123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. All MAJORS WELCOME. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: "HOW TO Fill OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM" KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PlACEMENT SERVICES 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 
123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE Hll ALL MAJORS WELCOME. 
DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FUll­TIME JOB, AND I NEED A PlACE TO LIVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PlEASE CAll MIKE AT 262-3727. 
...hot Ice and wondrous strange snow... an anthology of Shakespeare's sonnets, scenes, and songs TODAY, TOMOR­ROW, MONDAY-12:15PM, Haggar Cen­ter, SMC. SUNDAY-7:00pm. 
DRUIDS, UNITE. Elect Archdruid as UMOC .................................................. . IGUANA FOR UMOC IGUANA FOR UMOC IGUANA FOR UMOC 
The DRUIDS are pretenders to the faith. The foolish mortals can't even handle mere fire. They will be reduced to ash and the real priests will arrive. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDEI( 
THERESA DIGI ­Are tho.. U2 tickets In your UNDERWEAR??? Fono 
K.lynn-Juat remember honey ... "The land of clrclaa In the middle of your lore-head will take thfa all away..." 
A fellow frustrated one 
LBBS Mandatory Meeting Mon. 4113 7 p.m. 220 Hayes Healy 
I desperately need 2 Graduation tickets. If you help me, I will ensure your financial future, and finance your Senior Week Call Mark at 2339. 
OK this is my final offer for Graduation tickets. I'll give you my sister and my roommate for two Graduation tickets. They do not even have to be together. Call Mark at 2339. 
Need ride to Detroit. Will share expanses. Call Jon at 2100 
........................... 
Hey cutie, delta hearMlelta t 0111111 
HELLO, MY NAME IS SUE Fans: Come on, SMC isn't that far. TODAY 5PM ANGELA 17--BE THEREI Watch us unstring Pearls and unravel Sweats 
Show the world just how UGLY you are.. U.M.O.C. 
Haven't you always wanted to participate in a fixed election? Now's your chancel Start your campaign lor U.M.O.C. today. 
Archdruid for U.M.O.C. 
Fr. Ted for U.M.O.C. 
HEY JIM 01 HOW MANY WORMS HAVE YOU KISSED TODAY? OR DO THE CHILDREN SNEEZE ON RUTABAGAS ON MONDAYS? 
"I'm going to sit by this window some day and let chicks dig me." -The Real Marty. 
WORRIED ABOUT FINALS?? Let me ease the tension of a long week of schooll AMY . "Professionally Trained" masseuse. will take your cares away. Full body massage a specialty. Group rates availible. Call now! AMY 
ATTENTION CAMPUS BANDS!!!! 
Here's a chance for free publicity. 
Be our Guest on WVFI-AM64's talk show, 
CAMPUS PERSPECTIVES 
Call Colleen at 284-5172. 

TOP TEN REASONS FOR WORKING AT THE OBSERVER 
10. Where else can you go at 3 a.m. at Notre Dame? 
9. Get to earn change for your laundry. 
8. Get to publish pornographic photos (oops, that's a top 10 reason lor working at Scholastic). 
7. Regis' puns. 
6. Visits from Father Grit and a hungry dog at 2 a.m. 
5. DC's Digger Impersonations. 
4. Theodores' munchies and MWF donuts. 
3. Get to read obscene P.O. Box 0 let­ters. 
2. Get to read Julka inside cc .lumns before anyone else. 
1. It's a great way to break panetals. 
Dan O'Brien I realize that there Ia only a month of achool left, but would you like to go out aometlme? Call me-Heidi £1 294 
Ton1ght on WVFI AM 640: Yes, back by popular demand, Kara and Ann will be chatting about the new CULT album as well as the new LP by the THRASHING DOVES on the Album Rev1ew Show from 9-llpm. Listen ml WVFII Tonight! 
ELIZABETH HUGHES WEARS WONDER WOMAN UNDEROOS 
Dupree, I won't tell what you left your signature on. Just tell me, was It the lefl one or the right one? 
MIKE NAUGHTON--YOU CAN COUNT ON US TO FILL UP YOUR BOARD ANYTIME I 
MINNESOTANS: HELPI I need a ride to 
MinneapoliS'$!, Paul lor 

Easter Breakl I can leave as early as 
Wednesday and I am 

perfectly willing to share expenses. etc... 
If you can help 

me pleasecall284-5181 and ask forRac­
haelf 1111111 
JEROME "DAVE" T. Remember those two girls you met back­stage at the "opera"? ... Well, it's not us­-but your sisters are better anyway. Hav< a good onel (or a cold one on us) ...Love, 
T. & Katie P.S. Tell The Blade to take it easy I 
Hellol I don't need a r1de to Boston. Ch1cago, Dayton or anywhere else for break--1 have a car Na-na-na-na-nalf I rust wanted to say Hello. P.S. I m1ssed you Craig. Easter will be great as long as we don't have to sit at the kiddie table.. 
"Why Ia It that the one that you acope on won't ..k you out???" 
A concerned female 

To the girl who slams fuzzy navels, thanx for a great weekend. Hope for many more. 
Me 

HELPI Several of my F-4 larvae wero recently borrowed by someone who didn't tell me and didn't return them. If anyone knows anyth1ng about this theft 
~.~.!~~-~-~!~!.?..~~-~-~~-.~~!!.~.~--~~.~~~~: ....... 


----------------------~-­
Monday, April13, 1987-page 8 
The Observer 

Irish fall to UWGB; take 2nd in tourney 
By PETE GEGEN "We really weren't ready to play," said Grace. "We
Assistant Sports Editor 
weren't in sync. I was upset 

Two against one is almost that we gave up some cheap never fair. This weekend, the goals., but we really haven't Irish were faced with a similar been training as hard on disadvantage through much of defense in practice, so I'll take the championship game, and it the blame for that." meant an early departure from After a team meeting, the the championship round of the Irish turned the tables by Northern Ilinois indoor soccer defeating Wheaton, 5-2. The tournament. former Division III champions 
Notre Dame faced couldn't stop Notre Dame's Wisconsin-Green Bay in the passing game, and the Irish first game of the championship -defense played much better. round, but the Pheonix had Wheaton later defeated Illinois little to do with the Irish's early State in that bracket. departure. It was the referee That night Notre Dame faced who unfortunately played a former Irish keeper Dan part in deciding the outcome of Coughlin and the DePaul Blue the game. Demons. Coughlin just took 
"You can never say a referee over as manager of the Demons won or lost a game," said Irish this winter, but the Irish put head coach Dennis Grace. "But the personal connections aside we had to play shorthanded for 48 minutes and drubbed one-third of a time." DePaul, 9-1. 
The Irish were whistled for Grace subbed freely in that eight two-minute penalties in game, as keeper Kevin Mayo the 48 minute contest while the ended up tallying with a rocket Phoenix were called for two, into the corner. one of which was called with Grace was pleased with his only 20 seconds remaining the teams performance in this off­game. Twice the Irish were left season tourney, and was even two men short. Notre Dame happier to see the continued also was whistled for four times improvement of three as many fouls as the defending freshmen--keeper Dan Lyons, champions. wingback Sean Fieber and for­
The penalties helped ward Vovo Deweydenthal. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay come With former starting keeper 
back from a 4-1 deficit to send Hugh Breslin graduating, 
the game into overtime. The Grace has been concerned 
Phoenix won in a shootout. about finding a top starting 
"I'm just upset," said Grace. keeper for next season. Mayo 
"No one likes to have the game played well in the tournament, 
decided by officials." but according to Grace, Lyons 
Notre Dame advanced to the had an excellent series of 
championship round after win­games. 
ning two of three games in its Notre Dame now moves out­
preliminary bracket. side for the rest of the spring. 
Saturday morning Illinois Lewis College of Chicago will 
State jumped on a sleepy Irish pay the Irish a visit next Tues­
squad to hand Notre Dame a day to open the spring outdoor 
5-2 loss. off-season schedule. 

Buddy Bell hit his first home run of the year, terday, 4-2. but his Cincinnati Reds fell to San Diego yes-
Stanford Invitational). Over­all, I was very pleased. We only
Green 
had the ball on the ground one time, we only had one thing
continued from page 12 
that could have been an inter­
Andrysiak off the option and ception and we didn't give up 
waltzed nine yards for the the big play. We had too many 
score. penalties, but I am pleased 
Green led all rushers with 65 with the way we are progress­
yards on 12 carries, and also ing." 
led in the reception department · The defense concluded its 
with four catches for 31 yards. mastery when the No. 1 units 
After the second drive, clashed on three possessions 
however, the defense took over, late in the day. The first ended 
stopping the next seven posses­on strong safety George 
sions in a row. Three of those Streeter's break-up of an 
drives ended with big defensive Andrysiak pass to Aaron Robb. 
plays -a Pritchett hit on ful­Streeter was then in on a sack 
lback Braxston Banks for a to finish the next drive and a 
two-yard loss, a Jeff Kunz sack Stonebreaker sack halted the 
of Pete Graham and a fumble third. 
recovery by tackle Steve Rod­"I thought George Streeter 
dy. and (sophomore free safety) 
"There were a lot of good Corny Southall had some great 
plays by a lot of individuals," hits out there." Holtz said. 
Holtz said. "The most impor­Southall and Streeter played 
tant thing though is that we're on the first team behind Marv 
getting much better fundamen­Spence and Stan Smagala at 
tally. the corner positions in the 
"Offensively, we don't seem backfield. 
to be a big-play team (star "Terry's really doing a nice 
flanker Tim Brown was in Cal­job with the ballclub," Holtz 
ifornia running track in the said. 

APPhoto 
Andrysiak was 8-of-13 pass­ing for 50 yards, and carried the ball 13 times for 21 yards on the ground. 
Graham and Steve Belles split time leading the No. 2 of­fense. 
The only other touchdown came when tailback Alonzo Jef­ferson finished off a 75-yard drive on the next-to-last posses­sion of the day with a one-yard dive over the top. Belles kept the drive alive when he sprinted outside on a fourth­and-two keeper from the three­yard line, picking up the needed yardage for a first down and setting the stage for Jeffer­son's score. 
Placekicker Ted Gradel was good on both extra points. 
With the number of allowed spring practices dwindling, Holtz plans to work out today and tomorrow, hold a scrim­mage Thursday and practice one more time after Easter before the annual Blue-Gold Game on April 25. 
For Mize, it was only the second victory of a six-year
Masters 
PGA tour career. The other
continued from page 12 
came in the 1983 Memphis Clas­

Mize needed to get up and sic. He had a chance to win last 
down from a difficult spot to year's Kemper, but he lost to 
have any chance of extending Norman on the sixth hole of a 
the playoff. playoff. 
Instead, he pitched the ball Mize has had a half -dozen 
in the hole. Norman, now runner-up finishes since the 
needing a birdie to tie, missed 1983 victory, and questions 
his long putt and became a were being asked about his 
Masters runner-up for the mental toughness. 
second year in a row. It marked He answered them in a 
the third time in the last five strong, firm voice, saving a 
major championships -which bogey from the water behind 
also include the U.S. and the 15th green, gaining a 
British Opens and the PGA that playoff spot with a last-hole 
he has been second. birdie, then beating the best the 

Sisters Office Services 
TYPING 
**Term Papers** Reports Resume Preparation 
Grammar and Spelling Corrected 282-8593 425 N. Michigan Suite202 South Bend. IN 46601 
Special RateJ For Students 
game can offer. 
The victory was worth $162,000 to Mize, who was born and "spent most of my growing-up years" in Augusta. He now resides in Columbus, Ga. 
"It's the dream of a lifetime," Mize said. 
Ben Crenshaw and Roger Maltbie, who shared the lead going into the final round, and Jodie Mudd each missed the playoff by a single shot. 
He and Maltbie, an easy­going 35-year-old who hung around the top most of the final round, each shot 74 over the last 18 holes and finished at 286. 

Clubs and Organizations 
Applications are now available for: 
1. 
Student Government Funding for 1987-88 

2. 
Club Registration 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 

4. 
Office Space in LaFortune 


Pick applications tn Student Activities Offic~, 301 
LaFortune. 
Applications are due Wednesday, April 15 at 4:00 pm. 

The Observer Monday, April 13, 1987 -page 9 
Irish blow away EMU in impressive outing 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team took to the Courtney Courts yesterday and came away with an impressive win over Eastern Michigan. 
The Irish soundly defeated their opponents in singles, 5-1, and doubles, 2-1, on their way to the win. The win raised the Irish record to 16-10. 
Both teams had to deal with a fiercely overpowering wind, something not uncommon at Notre Dame. In general this hindered the Eastern Michigan team, which relies on a precise serve-and-volley game. 
The featured match, pitting the top players of both schools, turned out to be the only singles loss for the Irish. Matt Khuman of EMU beat lefty Tim Carr in straight sets 6-2, 7-5. 
In the strangest match of the day, Notre Dame captain Dan Walsh defeated Aziz Hoosenaly 6-0, 0-6, 7-5. Walsh relied on a strong backhand to rally from being down 4-1 in the third set. 
In other matches, freshman Mike Wallace trounced Eas­tern Michigan's Jim Arvidson 6-2, 6-0, Dave Reiter beat Dean Dancer 6-5, 3-6, 6-1, and both Brian Kalbas and Paul Daggs won in straight sets 6-2, 6-2. 
In doubles action, Wallace and Sean O'Brien defeated Jim Arvidson and Frank Polito 6-3, 6-0. The team of Kolbass and Dagg topped Hoosenaly and Dancer 6-3, 6-0. In EMU's only doubles victory, Matt Khuman and Greg Kennett squeaked by the Irish tandem of Reiter and Carr 6-4, 7-5. 
The wind was aggravating players from both teams. Greg Kennett of EMU explained how it affected his game. 
"The wind took my toss and hurt my game," he said. "I'm a serve and volley player and the wind forced me to play a baseline game, which is one of Brian's (Kalbas) strengths." 
Notre Dame's Paul Daggs, who defeated Joe Wolf, agreed that the wind played a part in the match. 
"The wind was a major fac­tor," he said. "In weather like this, patience is important. I think we adjusted very well to the conditions." 
Irish head coach Tom Fallon said he feels the solid victory is a good sign for the tough up­coming matches. 
"The wind bothered Eastern Michigan but it blew on both sides of the net," Fallon said. "I think we're used to it. 

APPhoto Philadelphia's Murray Craven checks George New York defeated the Flyers, 6-3, yesterday McPhee of the Rangers in NHL playoff action. to even the teams' series at two games apiece. 
Belles fall to W. Kent., Evansville 
By ELLEN WILLSON cated, but the other teams Sports Writer played the big points better 
than we did," said Head Coach 
The Saint Mary's tennis team Deb Laverie. played well, but still fell to In the Belles' only singles' Western Kentucky and the Uni­victory, number-six singles versity of Evansville in a three­player, Kate McDevitt, downed team tournament this Mary Burch of Western Ken­weekend. tucky, 6-1, 7-5. 
"We played them very close, The team of Buffy Hines and better than the scores indi-freshman Jennifer Block upset 
i  CLASS OF 1990  
:!  Sophomore Dorm Representative and Commissioner Applications  
••  Are now available with the Student  
:  Government Secretary at 2nd floor  
:  LaFortune. Applications must be  ~'ifi?d$~  

i• !: •
• : : 
• returned by Wednesday, f)rnn)~JlLL~ 1:'di2 • 
e UA~!!/~l'@}fl~ •
• April 15th, 1987. • 

ONEHOUR 

MOTOPHOTO'· 
ONEHOUfl 
MOTOPHOTo·  • Pictures ready in one hour  
UNIVERSITY MALL  • Custom Lab Quality  
272-8243  


ONEHOUfl 
MOTOPHOTo·· 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3096 
-----u--~-~~--~~:()tei ______________if=~~~------------c;ra(jliajV~~;si>eC:iiii ___ 
L-~I~----------------------------~---------------~-------------~--.--------------------------· 
OFF FILM DEVELOPING 36With this coupon, receive s3.00 OFF on a exposure. s2.00 OFF on a 24 exposure, 51.00 OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a roll  EXTRA SET OF PRINTS With this coupon, receive a FREE Extra Set of Prints, when presenting one roll of color print f"l (C 41 ) t ess·ng and pr1"nt1m -process or proc 1 •ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limited to  24 Wallet Size Portraits With this coupon receive 24 wallet size portraits when purchasing any regularly priced portrait package at ONE HOUR  
of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro- one roll per coupon per customer.  Not valid  MOTO PHOTO. One coupon per custom­ 
cessing  and  printing  at  One  Hour  Moto  with any other promotion.  er.  Not valid with any other promotion.  
Photo. Coupon offers may not be combined.  Expires: june 30, 1987.  ONE HOUR  Expires: june 30, 1987. ONE HOUR  
~  Expires june 30, 1987.  MOTOPHOTO.  7  MOTOPHOTO­ M7  MOTOPHOTO- 

Gail Sutton and Julie Ross, 7-5, 6-4. 
Other winners were the team of Sandy Hickey and Charlene Szajko over Kim Hewlett and Mary Burch, 6-4, 7-6. 
The Belles had a hard time in the match against Evansville, but Laverie said they gained a great deal of ex­perjence by playing such an ac­complished team . 
"Once again, the matches were a lot closer than the scores reveal," said Laverie. "I am very happy with the per­formance of out doubles teams. They have really improved over the season." 
The Belles' next face Kalamazoo College Tuesday at home. Kalamazoo is ranked lOth in the nation in Division III, but Laverie said she is con­fident the Belles can come away with a win. 
"We should beat them be­
cause I think we  might have  
the  competitive  edge,"  she  
said.  

ND lacrosse beats Kenyon 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team came from behind to take a 15-11 win over Kenyon Satur­day. 
The Irish held Kenyon score­less in the last 20 minutes of the contest, and scored seven goals in a row to raise their record to 3-2. 
Kenyon had held a 10-8 lead in the third quarter, before the Irish rallied to take the victory. Jim Shields and John Olmstead each tallied five goals to lead the Irish attack. 
Anti·VIolence Activist 
Center fO< Teaching Non·VIolence & NCTV lull·llme stall. Lodging & S6000/yr. Rea..rch on aggreaalon, clearlnghouaa, publishing & lobbying against violence Including TV, film, WII toya, apO<II, tii'Otlca. Next loU IIIInola. Sludent Joana deferable. 217·J8.4.1920. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820 

The Observer Monday, April 13, 1987-page 10 
r 
Hoops 
continuedfrom page 12 
Verkler's Construction pounded Leslie Cheswiok, 21-8, behind Irish tight ends coach George Stewart's 9-of-13 shoot­ing and Jim Dolan's 14 rebounds. Head Coach Lou Holtz struggled to an 0-of-5 shooting day, and pulled no punches in analyzing his per­formance. 
"I played terrible," said Holtz. "I set the game of bas­ketball back twenty years with my performance today. In fact, they tried to bring out a peach basket for me at halftime." 
While Holtz played a rela­tively insignificant role in his squad's victory, another campus celebrity was actually leading his team to a win. Monk Malloy shot 4-of-8, all from well beyond would-be three-point land, as All the President's Men withstood a second half rally to put away Watches, Rings ... by the score of 21-13. 
Malloy performed much bet­ter on Saturday than he did in his first outing, and attributed much of his improvement to his teammates, especially Rob Wiese, who was unable to play with the President's Men in the first round. 
"It helps to have Rob with us," said Malloy of the 6-2 senior. "It also helps when you don't have a blizzard or pouring rain or freezing winds bother­ing your outside shot. We b_eat a pretty good team, and they were a good bunch of guys. I feel pretty good about the way we played." 
Malloy feels that if his squad can continue to play the way they have, they can win at least one or two more rounds. Watches team member and quickness personified Matt "the Cat" Uhoda agrees with the President-elect. 
"I feel that, in general, we were outmanned,'' said Uhoda, a sophomore who led the Watches... with six points. "And don't let anyone tell you that Monk can't play. He's got quick hands, a solid jumper, rebounds well and plays good defense. I think his team can make some waves." 

Deathtongue picked up its third victory despite only actu­ally playing one game. The team won its second game by forfeit Saturday and should be well-rested heading into a dif­ficult third round confrontation with Ball-Headed Freak­daddies, which licked SSE and the Lollypop Kids, 21-13. 
Grand Illusion dethroned Four Little Kings, 21-8, behind Marty "We play hoops in Canada too" Strasen's 8-of-14 shooting. Also on Saturday, Carte Blanche whitewashed Team No. 531, 21-3, led by George Baldus' 10-of-12 shoot­ing, and Cubs Lose Again won and We May Not... didn't (figure that one out). At any rate, the score was 21-12. 
In two physical, yet well­played, games at Stepan Courts on Friday, G-Men tossed Spigot O'Vomit, 21-16, and Ed Smerciak's Last Hur­rah dashed the upset hopes of Willie and the Wanna Bees, winning by the score of 21-17. 
Also Friday, Four Fags and a Zahmbie grounded Papa Sumby and the Flying Eg­gmen, 21-6. The Fags did more than hold their own against Papa Sumby, and with a balanced attack continue to skip merrily down the path leading to the tourney finals. In other action, Dead Chicks Don't Say No denied I Need a Lover That Won't Drive Me Crazy, 21-10, and Scott DuPree's 9-of-21 shooting led Uncoachables III past Antonet­ti's Revenge, 21-16. 
~------9C) 

gynffb 

We cater to weddings and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: e.!outh Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 



is now accepting applications for the paid position of 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
for the 1987-88 year. 
Applicants should have experience in graphic design and/or ad layout and must be available to work at least 10 to 12 hours a week. 
Applications are due in the Adworks office, 3rd floor LaFortune, on Thursday, April 16th, by 5 pm. 
Call Rob Bartolo at 9-ADWORKS (239-6757) between 2 and 5 pm for more information. 
Bookstore Tournament 
Monday's Schedule Stepan 1 
4:00 -Rat Pat vs. New Order 
4:45 -Missing Link vs. Fawn Hall's Desktop Aerobics and the rise... 
5:30 -G-Men vs. Team No. 644 
6:15 -Da' Brothers of Manhood vs. Team No. 124 
Stepan 2 4:00-Cop Car Thief, An Ex-RA, and three other guys... vs. Team No. 303 
4:45 ·Team 557 vs. Who's Next... Who Cares 5:30-The Cool Team vs. 4 Fags and a Zahmbie 6:15-Killer Bees vs. Grand lllus1on 
Stepan 3 4:00-Rosie Palms ... Soccer Burgers vs. Digger Phelps and 4 Other Babies... 
4:45 -Phil Collins, Monk Malloy, and 3 Other Guys ... vs. Josephus... 
5:30 -Fr. King and 4 Other Guys $100 richer vs. Dead Chicks Don't Say No 
6:15 -5 Guys Who Put the Legend to Shame 
vs. Swill 'n' Swish ,Stepan 4 

4:00 -ND Law vs. The Condos 4:45-Ed Smerciak's Last Hurrah vs. Team No. 271 
5:30 -Budd Dwyer and 4 Other Sharpshooters vs. Team No. 295 6:15-More Anonymous Freshmen vs. Verkler's Construction 
Stepan 5 

4:00 -Gary's Kids vs. Mr. Coffey and the Non­Dairy Creamers 
4:45 -Mlchiana Express vs. 7 Guys Who Still Can't Add 
5:30 -Grover and the Boys vs. Team No. 460 
6:15 -Ball Headed Freak Daddies vs. Death 
Tongue Stepan 6 

4:00 -Holy Rollers vs. We Pack Extra Baggage 
4:45 -We Don't Dribble Before We Shoot vs. Fat N.D. Chicks, Iran ... 
5:30 -Flying Dingleberries vs. Sets 3 to 5 and Building 6:15-5 10" Guys vs. UGD II 
Bookstore 9 
4:45 -4 Slamma Jamma vs. Armed and Dan­gerous 
5:30 -Air Daggers vs. Ten of Us 6:15-Cubs Lose Againl vs. The Fighting Ker­nels 
Bookatore 10 
4:45 -Trichotomies vs. Mr. and Mrs. Marty Bul­lfrog 
5:30 -But Isn't Love More Important than Sex 
vs. Tequila White Lightening Lyons 11 

5:30 -Just When You Thought... vs. Willie Wonka... 
6:15 
-Carte Blanche vs. Jumping and Jerking 

Lyona 12 


6:15 
Team No. 211 vs. Team No. 456 


Saturday's Reaulta 
Stepan 1 Da' Brothers of Manhood over Team No. 150 by 12 5 Guys Who Put the Legend to Shame over Team No. 151 by 8 5 1Q-inch Guys over Team No. 472 by 15 Put It in the Hole over Package Workers by 6 Grover and the Boys over 5 Responsible Drinkers by 12 UGD II over Team No. 546 by 12 
Stepon 2 
Team No. 124 over 5 Reasons to Get Your Dog ... by 8 Swill 'n' Swish over Libertyville P.W. by 2 5 Hot Dogs ... Condiments over 5 Guys Who Take ... Cybil Sheppard by 8 Team No. 480 over Shark and Co. 22-20 Ball-Headed Freak Daddies over SSE and Lol­lypop Kids by 8 
.Stepan 3 Killer Bees over The First Tough God by 12 More Anonymous Freshmen over Say No to Nancy by 2 4 Guys ... Newt over Orig•nal Name Censored by 
2 
Flying Dingleberries over Length, Girth, Bumpy, and ... by 2 
Stepan 4 Grand Illusion over 4 Little Kings by 13 Verkler's Construction over Leslie Cheswick by 13 Deathtounge over Team No. 45 by forfeit Sets 3 to 5 and building over Can you Find Five Errors ... by 15 Fill it up over Remember That Keg by 7 
Stepan 5 Team 471 over 4 Catholics ... by 17 Team 421 over Pregnant Paul by 15 Okra over The Masons by 10 Skoad Men over We Better Play at Stepan ... by 
5 
Stepan 6 4 0' So Harsh Pimpers over Ron Reagan, Liberace, and 3 Other Guys ... by 6 Axe Wounds over Internationalists by 4 Liberace, Len Bias, and 3 Other ...over Dr. Hude and the Fairpies by 7 What the Puck over Actus Reus by 6 Phi Slamma Jamma over We Just Can't Seem to Put It In by 8 A Priest, a Nerd, and Three Dudes over Vegas and the Cheesebags by 17 
STEPAN 7 The Edge over Noel Sullivan by 6 
Bookstore 9 Cubs Lose Again over We May Not... by 9 But Isn't Love More Important than Sex over Team No. 623 by 11 Dick Vitale's All-Converse Team over Law School Still ... by 3 Harmless Pranks, Inc. over Cannibalistic, Bolimic, Fly-People by 17 
Bookstore 10 The Fighting Kernels over Fawn Hall, Walsh Hall by 6 Too Muckln Fuch over Len Bias, Max Headroom, and 3 Other Guys Who.. by 4 All the President's Men over Watches, Rings, Crabs, and 2 Other ... by 8 TWL over Len Bias, Don Rogers ... by forfeit Party at Chips If We Win over Too True to Be Good by 13 
Lyona 11 Team No. 211 over Invisible Touch by 2 Carte Blanche over Team No. 531 by 18 SOMFAW over Grandmaster Gash by 16 
Lyons 12 Team No. 456 over Brendan Murphy's by 10 Jumping and Jerking ... over Team No. 307 by 7 What...Rasta Anyway over Awful Truth by 2 Team No. 47 over The Doobie Brothers by 16 
Friday' a Results 
Stepan 1 Yacht Club over Team No. 651 by 10 Leone's Stallions over Team No. 622 by 14 G-Men over Spigot O'Vomit by 5 Return of the MBA Renegades over Friends of the Sea Otters by 4 
Stepan 2 Team No. 186 over Mr. Cheerios' Breakfast Club by 6 Team No. 51 over Cock 'n' Toast 'em ... over Team No. 51 by 14 Team No. 644 over Pete and Toni Are Fat by forfeit Team No. 451 over Still Clueless by 8 
Stepan 3 East Side Runners over You Do Chicks, Qui Do Doorknobs by 12 Bud Dwyer and 4 Other Sharpshooters over Team No. 295 by 15 The Cool Team over Sheep Thrills by 7 Crocodile Jungee and the Return of the lnt'l Male over Team 334 by 12 
Stepan 4 The Team That Time Forgot over Team No. 346 by 2 5 Guys From Carroll Who Beat Dillon over Team No. 529 by 19 4 Fags and a Zhambie over Papa Sumby and the Flying Eggmen by 15 5 Really Cool Guys over Team No. 222 by 10 
Stepan 5 The Board Bangers over Swiss, Colby, and 3 Other Cheeses by 3 Ed Smerciak's Last Hurrah over Willie and the Wanna Bees by 4 Fr. King and 4 Other Guys $100 Richer over Team No. 488 22·20 4 Midgets and a Dwarf over Hatchetman and 4 Other Cutting Utensils by 8 
Stepan 6 Team No. 208 over Fat Chicks by 13 Team No. 271 over Team No. 489 by 7 Dead Chicks Don't Say No over I Need a Lover Who Want Drive Me Crazy by 11 Playing Tiddlywinks on the Veranda over Stand up, You'll Do by 17 

Bookstore 9 Ragging Meatuses over Amerika's Team by 19 4 Slamma Jamma over 5 Guys Who Can't Pen­etrate by 7 The Trichotomies over Freddie P. Come Home by 5 Groundskeepers over Give It to Tony by 3 
Bookstore 1 0 Ivan Boesky and the Insiders over Team No. 369 by 3 Armed and Dangerous IV over Team No. 206 by 6 Mr. and Mrs. Marty Bullfrog over SPUDS by 5 Notre Demons From Hell-Sob Nagel for Mayor over The Slapoffs by 4 
Lyons 11 Uncoachables Ill over Antonetti's Revenge by 
5 
Michiana Express over Team No. 385 by 15 We Don't Dribble Before We Shoot over Glazed Donuts by 7 If Thai's All We Gel, We'll Do II Ourselves over Open Loop Shooters by 11 4 People and a Short Fat Guy over Triple Entry by 4 
Lyons 12 4 People and a Short Fat Guy over Triple Entry by 4 7 Guys Who Still Can't Add over Len Bias and 4 Other Guys by 4 Fat ND Chicks, Iran ... over Legend of the Bearded Smurf by 12 Team No. 320 over Team 255 by 18 

Summer Quarter 
The University of Chicago June 22 -Aug. 29 
LANGllA<iES: Arabic, Chinese, French, Georgian, German. Urccl\, Italian, 
Latin, Qucchua de Cuzco, Russian, Spanish 
ARTS AND LITERATURE: Photography, Italian Art H><HI-J7:;o, Rcrwissancc Art, Theories of the Novel, Academic and Professional Writing, Currents of Though! From Locke to Burke, American Literature of the J<J.:.?O's, Post World War II American Fiction, Translating WorstwarJ, Idea of Method, Electronic Music, Dostoevsky & Tolstoy, Philosophy of Law, Contemporary Theory of Value, Phenomenology, \'allc-lndan Y I.a Revolucion Teatral Del S. XX 
SOCIAL SCIENCES: Action Anthropology, Archeological Field School, Sex Roles & Society, Witchcraft & Shamanism, Freud, Economi<:s, llistory of Western Civilization, Early Child Development, Psydwtherapy \\'ith Families, Self-Culture & Society, Literature & Politics in Latin Ameri<:a 
SCIENCES: Developmental Biology, Apes & Human Evolution, Cell Biology, 
Organic Chemistry, Computer Sciences, Fundamental Mathematics, 
Calculus, Linear Algebra, Statistics 
Call or send for a Summer Bulletin: 24-Hour hotline 312-702-J4M~, Summer Quarter Office, University of Chicago, 5845 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago, IL 60637. 
Name----------------------------------------------------------­Address------------------------------------------------------­City, State, ZiP--------------------------------------------------­Area of Interest-----------------------------------------------­
6 Sponge  
7 Russ. moun­ 
tain range  
8 Wreaths of  
flowers  
9 Ripened  
10 Jimmy or Amy  
11 In-of  
12 --Neisse  
Line  
13 Miami county  
22 Dutch city  
23 Russ. sea  
25 Hard to find  
28 Stir up  
29 Raison d'­ 
30 Numskull  
31 Piscivorous  
bird  
32 Daily fare  
33 Burn  42 Teller  51 Omnium­ 
34 Adjuvant  44 Wandering  gatherum  
35 Humor 38 Appreciative  45 Favorite 47 Fr. author  52 Eye part 53 Encore!  
39 Swiss river  48 Vice­ 54 Kiln for  
41 Balanchine  49 Enroll  drying hops  
ballet  50 Ointment  59 Gun gp.  

~c:tcJlC3L~------------------------------------------M-on-da-y,-Ap-ri-l1-3,_100~7--p-a~ge-11
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 



Campus 
8:45 a.m.: Presentation to be given by Dmitri Shalin, assistant professor of sociology at Southern Illinois University, "G.H. Mead, Socialism, and the Progres­sive Agenda," Room 313 (Loft) O'Shaughnessy 
11:45 a.m.-1:00 p.m.: Economics De­partment Development Workshop, "Dol­larization in Latin America," by Prof. Kenneth Jameson, ND, 131 Decio 
12:00 p.m.: Sociology Department Lec­ture, "Romanticism, The French Revolu­tion, and The Rise of Sociological Her­meneutics," by Prof. Dmitri Shalin, Southern Illinois University, Library Lounge 
4:00 p.m.~ Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture, "Reli~ion and Politics from a Legislator's View­point," by Rev. Robert Cornell, St. Nor­bert's University, 120 Law School 
7:00p.m.: Information Meeting, "SMC Summer Programs in London and Rome", Prof. Anthony Black, SMC, 349 Madeleva Hall 
7:00p.m.: Presentation, "Juniors: How to Fill Out Your Profile Form," by Kitty Arnold, director, Career and Placement Services, 123 Nieuwland Science 
7:00p.m.: Shakespeare Club Film "A Midsummer Night's Dream" by the Royal Shakespeare Company with Ian Holm and Diana Rigg, Engineering Auditorium 

SObering Advice·.: 
can save alife_;,~~ 
Think Before You Drink ~"" 
Before You Drive .. ·"· · ·· 
7:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I "Stella Dallas," 1937, b-W, 106 minutes, di­rected by King Vidor, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30p.m.: "Teaching Peace in a Chris­tian Context," talk-Question forum, Gov. Gilligan, Director of the Institute for In­ternational Peace Studies. Sponsored by the International Student Organizaion, ISO Lounge, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II "Johnny Guitar," 1954, color, 112 minutes, directed by Nicholas Ray, USA, Annen­berg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round of Beef 
Pork Fry with Julienne Vegetables 
Seafood Newburg over Patty Shell 
Devonshire Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Breaded Pork Cutlets 
Lasagna 
Rataouille Crepes 
Deli Bar 
How cow documentaries are made 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Sudden flood 6 Pacific 
10 Lump of dirt 14 Moses' brother 15 Nautical word 16 Radames' 
beloved 17 Hobbles 18 Ireland's 
lower house 19 Shepherd's pipe 20 Collection of 
anecdotes 21 Congress 24 Abase 26 Crude metal 27 Roof overhang 28 Recompensed 33 Key group 35 Stopover 36 Swiss canton 37 Go underground 38 Shell used as 
a flask 39-Boleyn 40 Fuss 41 Emerged 42 Military 
student 43 Deserter 45 Skin 46 Nonsense 47 Merit 50 Eng. seaside 
resort 55 Biddy 56 Part of TAE 57 Suds 58 Sluggish 60 Legal holding 61 -Minor 62 Obliterate 63 Fosse 64 Permits 65 Detecting 
device 
DOWN 
1-days (youthful period) 
2 US patriot 3 Last battle 4 Apex 5 Subjugate 

<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 4/13/87All Rights Reserved 
Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 
.---------~­
Monday, April13, 1987-page 12
S~orts 

The march to the Bookstore finals continues as the tournament field steadily grows smaller. 
Mize claims Masters title with spectacular playoff shot 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga.-Larry Mize, a native son of this old southern city, turned back two stars of international golf with a spec­tacular pitch-in birdie that won a sudden death playoff yester­day in the 51st Masters golf tournament. 
Mize won the coveted green jacket that goes to the Masters champion with a pitch from about 30-40 yards to the right of the 11th hole, the second of the sudden death playoff. 
Mize played the shot to the fringe, then stood frozen in fas­cination as the ball took off, running straight into the cup. That eliminated Greg Norman of Australia, while Seve Balles­teros of Spain bogeyed the first sudden death hole to drop out. 
"It's a dream come true," Mize said. "I've dreamed of winning the Masters, but I never dreamed of winning it like this -beating two of the greatest golfers in the world." 
The ball disappeared into the hole like the flash of a cotton­tail rabbit ducking into its bur­row. 
The quiet, soft-spoken Mize leaped high into the air, then went hopping around the green, raising both hands in elation and clasping them to his head. 
"Reporters have asked me all week if I ever dreamed of 
Defense sparkles again in 2nd Irish scrimmage 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Fourteen to nothing, offense. 

That was the final score. But just ask anyone who took in the Notre Dame football team's second scrimmage of the spring season and they'll tell you who won. The defense, hands down. 
Spring Football '87 
"I thought the hitting was ex­cellent as always," said Head Coach Lou Holtz, after watch­ing his defensive corps domi­nate for the second consecutive time this spring. "Our defense is getting much better at rush­
ing  the  passer,  and  I  think  
they're  really  progr essing  
well."  

And ifyou want numbers, the score would have to include five quarterback sacks, two passes broken up and a fumble recovery. Linebackers held down the top four slots in the tackle department-Ned Bolcar and Mike Stonebreaker with 10 apiece, and Wes Pritchett and Greg Hudson adding eight each. 
Junior quarterback Terry Andrysiak led the No. 1 offense past the goal line on the second possession of the day, with sophomore tailback Mark Green capping a 75-yard drive against the No. 2 defense. Green took a pitch from 
see GREEN, page 8 

Favorites hang tough in 2nd-round contests 
By PETE SKIKO and BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writers 
The third round of Bookstore Basketball XVI gets underway today as this weekend's survivors look to find a spot in the coveted round of 64. 
The cream of the crop survived a few weekend scares to put themselves among the 128 teams now remaining in the tourna­ment, while several upstarts find themselves still in the thick of things. 
Defending champions Party At Chips When We Repeat, known last year as Lee's BBQ Roundhouse, continued its quest towards that victory party by defeating Too True To Be Good, 21-8. 

Bookstore Basketball XVI 
Leone's Stallions galloped to a decisive 21-7 win over Team No. 622, showing the same intensity that took it to a second place showing in last year's tournament. The Stallions' Gary Sass and Bill Sullivan paced their team with nine and eight points respec­tively. 
Da' Brothers of Manhood, again without the services of track and football star Tim Brown, stormed past Team No. 150, 21-9, with a balanced scoring effort and an intimidating defense that forced its opponent to shoot 9-of-40, mostly from the outside. Steve Lawrence led all scorers with nine points, while Joel Wil­liams pulled down eleven rebounds and had a monstrous blocked shot that nearly put out a window at Flanner Hall. 
see HOOPS, page 10 
winning the Masters. I did," Mize said. 
It was the climax of a struggle in which six men either led or shared the lead at one time or another. 
And it beat the two dominant figures in golf today, Norman, the flamboyant "Great White Shark," and Ballesteros, the Spanish master who has won this championship twice and owns a couple of British Open titles. 
They were Mize's playoff partners after all three finished the regulation 72 holes in a tie for the top at 285, only three shots under par on the Augusta National Golf Club course. 
Mize birdied the 72nd hole from about three feet to finish a 71 and was the first in the clubhouse. 
Ballesteros was next, and he saved par from a bunker to set up the playoff. He, too had a 71. 
Then came Norman, the out­standing player in world golf last year, who moved into a tie with a 20-foot birdie putt on the 17th, then parred the 18th to complete an erratic 72 that in­cluded six birdies and as many bogeys. 
The ninth playoff in Masters history began on the lOth hole. 
Ballesteros was eliminated there. He 3-putted for bogey, missing a 5-6 foot second putt. Mize had chance to win it all. 
but he left a 10-12 foot birdie attempt hanging on the lip of the cup. He tapped in. Norman, who had missed a birdie from about 20 feet, also made par and they went to the 11th. 
Mize and Norman both drove the fairway. 
Mize pushed his approach far, far to the right and turned his back on the shot while it was in the air. 
Norman, the current British Open title-holder and perhaps the most feared competitor in the game today, also put his ap­proach to the right, on the fringe. 
see MASTERS, page 8 



.. 

The Observer /Greg Kohs 
The defense stifled the offensive attack for Marty Strasen has the details at left. much of Notre Dame's football scrimmage. 





