----------~------------------------------~-------­

IACCENT: Ode to a recruiting officer 
IVIEWPOINT: Limits to organization 
There goes the sun 
Mostly cloudy today with a 20 percent chance of showers. High in the mid 60s. Mostly cloudy tonight with a low in the low 40s. 


WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1987 VOL. XXI, NO. 45 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

ND grad is elected mayor of South Bend 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI and REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporters 
Promising to make a positive difference in South Bend's fu­ture, Democratic candidate and Notre Dame graduate Joe Kernan claimed victory in the city's mayoral race Tuesday night. 
With 100 percent of the vote counted unofficial results showed Kernan with 17,030 votes or 53 percent, to 15,104 or 47 percent for Republican chal-Ienger Carl Baxmeyer. 
A veteran city planner, Bax­meyer was trying to end a 20­year Democratic hold on city hall. 
Two-term incumbent demo­
cratic Mayor Roger Parent is 
retiring. 

"Notre Dame is certainly a great asset to the (South Bend) community," said Kernan, a former catcher for the Notre Dame baseball team. 
"I look forward to a great re­lationship with the Univer­sity," he said, adding he has 

H PC plans for 
Rockne's 
By JENNIFER GRONER News Staff 
Tuesday evening Digger 
Phelps and the HPC discussed 
plans to celebrate Knute 
Rockne's lOOth birthday on 
March 4, 1988. A stamp com­
memorating Rockne will be 
issued on this date and Presi­
dent Reagan has been invited 
to join the ceremony in 
memory of his role as the Gip­
per, said Phelps. 
Phelps, head basketball 
coach, is a member of the Post 
Masters Citizen Stamp Advi­
sory Board, which is planning 
a ceremony that day on 
campus to issue the stamp 
commemorating Rockne. 
President Reagan has been 
invited to Notre Dame to par­
ticipate in the festivities since 
he portrayed "the Gipper" in 
the film "Knute Rockne: All-


birthday 
American," said Phelps. Unless there is a national crisis, the chances of Reagan attending are favorable, accor­ding to Phelps, who said the President's calendar was thus far being kept open for that day. The coach asked the hall presidents for their input on where and when the ceremony should be held. The consensus was that the event should be held in the JACC around noon to accomodate television net­works that may wish to broad­cast the ceremony on the news. The presidents agreed to get feedback from students and report back to Phelps later this week. A campus-wide sports trivia contest is being planned by the HPC in order to pick a three-
see HPC, page 5 
f. •· ~,l
•( ............... ' 
,. '­
" ~--'\ "'~~ 

~--·-.
Joseph Kernan 
already contacted University President Father Edward Mal­loy. "This is a great opportu­nity for Notre Dame and South Bend to work together," said the former city controller and deputy mayor. 
Greeted with chants of "Joe, Joe," Kernan explained to jubilant campaign workers the opportunity his administation has to make a difference in the city's future. "In a community of South Bend's size we have an opportunity to make a dif­fernce in the place that we live, a very positive difference." 
Making this difference, however, will be a big chal­lenge, said South Bend's new mayor. "It is (a challenge) we are going to face head on," he said. "We are not going to back away. I can guarentee that we are going to be successful." 
With the election over, Ker­nan said he hopes to unite South Bend. "What we need to do now is focus on tomorrow, what to­morrow is going to bring , what it will hold, how we are going to tackle it, and how we are going to get there," he said. 
"The only way we are going 
see MAVOR, page 6 


The Observer I Jo Whitfield

Out of Africa 

Palesa Makhele from Soweto, South Africa, spoke struggle for liberation in South Africa. The lecture at the Center for Social Concerns last night on the was sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network. 


Democrats win seats on city council 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI and REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporters 
Democratic incumbent Ann 
Puzzello won re-election in the 
race for South Bend's 4th Dis­
trict city council seat while 
Democrat and Notre Dame 
graduate Sean Coleman won an 
at-large seat on the council. 
With 100 percent of the vote tallied, unofficial results showed Puzzello with 3,333 votes or 58 percent to Republi­can challenger Richard Heyde's 2,373 or 42 percent. 

Heyde said poor voter tur­nout and University support of the Democratic party in the district hurt his campaign. "In (the 4th) district, near the campus, Notre Dame put a tre­mendous amount of support into the Democratic party," he said. "The University's sup­port is substantial with any candidate." 
The 4th District comprises most of the Northeast Neigh­borhood, where many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege students reside. 
With 19,269 votes, Coleman, who proposed an eight-point plan during his campaign for better relations between Notre Dame students and South Bend residents, earned one of the three at-large council seats. 
The Northeast Neighborhood needs to be re-zoned, Puzzello said, to protect its family 



t987 

Vote 

owned residences from "deterioration that comes with rentals." 
Neighborhood deterioration caused by rented houses has oc­curred in many areas of South Bend, she said. 
Puzzello, who will begin her second term in the council seat, said she plans to introduce a re-zoning bill at next week's planning board meeting. 
Although relationships be­tween students and residents in the Northeast Neighborhood have improved this year, Puz­zello said, the area still needs more unity between students and residents. 
"I think if the students would try to be neighbors a little bit then the residents would also try to be neighbors," she said. "I think they could have a real good deal." 
Puzzello said the neighbor­hood needs more police protec­tion but would benefit more from neighbors getting to­gether to protect one another. 
She said she hopes to develop a spirit in the neighborhood where residents would watch over student houses when stu­dents leave for breaks. 
Puzzello said she hopes to develop this spirit through meetings with University offi­cials, including University President Father Edward Mal­loy. 
Coleman, a 1978 Notre Dame graduate who lived off-campus his senior year, said he also plans to meet with University officials to improve relations between Notre Dame and South Bend. 
"We have a great opportu­nity to better our relation­ships," he said. Coleman cited cooporation between Notre Dame and South Bend during last summer's International Special Olympic Games as an example of great things that can be done when the city and University cooperate. 
Coleman's eight-point plan for better relations between off-campus students and South Bend residents includes es­tablishment of an off-campus center for coordinating student programs, designation of an off-campus housing coordina­tor and assignment of a coun­cilman to the University's task force on community relations. 
Coleman also proposed formation of a group of student volunteers who would promote responsible socializing and help with trash and public safety problems. 
Break begins earlier 
Special to The Observer 
Although some calendars say differently, Thanksgiv­ing break officially begins after the last class on Tues­day, Nov. 24, according to Daniel Winicur, dean of ad­ministration and registar. 
Winicur said two versions of the academic calendar are in circulation, causing confusion about the time the break begins. Some calen­dars were inadvertantly printed with the date on which Thanksgiving break had traditionally begun in the past. 
In previous years, Thanks­giving break had started Wednesday at noon. This was changed because it was unfair to those students who have class Wednesday mor­ning while others don't, Winicur said. 
University offices will be open, as usual, on Wednes­day, Nov. 25. 

--~---------~----------------­
Wednesday, November 4, 1987
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
Fred Tombar, a freshman from New Orleans and a member of the Notre Dame Speech and Debate team, recently placed in three events in the "Age of Aquarius Invitational" speech tournament at Ball State University this past weekend. Tom bar placed second in Novice Prose, third in Novice Persuasive, and fourth in Varsity Pentat­halon. Carol Montavon and Kimberly Brown, both juniors, also competed. -The Observer 
Surrogate mother Mary Beth Whitehead's out-of-wedlock pregnancy will put further stress on Baby M, says the child's guardian, who now recommends the two be kept apart. Lawyer Lorraine Abraham has changed her recommendation that Whitehead be allowed to visit the baby after five years, according to papers filed with the state Supreme Court. Abraham now says the two should not be reunited until Baby M reaches maturity. Whitehead, separated from her husband since August, has been pregnant for two months by a man she identified only as Dean. Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Dismas House students are serving African food tomorrow. This luncheon is the third of the Fall series at the Center for Social Concerns. Lunch will be served from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. -The Observer 
Summer Program in Mexico general meeting held by CILA will be tonight at 7: 30 in the Center for Social Concerns. Call Mike at 1049 or Dan at 277-0804 for details. 
-The Observer 

The ND band comes to tonight's Campus Perspectives on WVFI from 10 to 11 p.m. Call 239-6400 to ask questions of the marching band. Tonight's show is hosted by Chris Shank. -The Observer 
The Finance Club will hold a general meeting today in 220 Hayes-Healy. A speaker from Electronic Data Sys­tems will be present. All members and students are en­couraged to attend. For information, contact Perry Jiminez at 1473. -The Observer 
ThomasMore Society presents ''Conflictbetween Church and State: the Supreme Court's Jurisprudence," a lecture to be given by Dr. Douglas Kmick, a law school professor, tonight at 7:30 in the library lounge. Discussion will follow. -The Observer 
Law Professor Charles Rice will give a talk today at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Room of LaFortune Student Center, entitled "The Supreme Court and Post-Bork Pos­sibilities." The talk is sponsored by The ND-SMC Right to Life. -The Observer 
The Alumnae Speaker Series at Saint Mary's will hold its second speaker tonight at 6:30 in Stapelton Lounge. Kathleen Flynn Fox, the Vice President of Mar­keting for Carousel Restaurant Groups, will be speaking about "Life After Saint Mary's." -The Observer 
Applications for fashion show tryouts for the Black Cultural Arts Festival are to be submitted no later than Friday, November 13. To receive an application con­tact Kim Stevenson at 4072. -The Observer ' 

Design Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lisa Tugman Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike Restle Design Assistant . . . . . . . Bernadette Shilts Accent Layout.. ............... Heather Hypes Typesetters ............... Becky Gunderman Sports Wednesday Editor .. Brian O'Gara ........................................ Chris Reardon Sports Wednesday Design .. Joe Zadrozny News Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning Typists............................. Cathy Haynes Copy Editor ................... Kendra Morrill N D Day Editor ................... Katie Gugle Sports Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi Photographer ............... Joanne Whitfield 
Tlte Olleenet' (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. TM Oblenet' is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2j per semester) by writing Tlte Oblerver, P.0. Bo~ Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46H6. 
TM ()lleener is a member of TM Aaodated Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Lack of concern puts apartheid policy on hold 
A few years ago images of racial violence in South Africa constituted a major part of the daily American news diet. Gruesome photos of "necklace" burnings decorated the covers of Time and Newsweek. Footage from the latest township riots was a safe bet for the evening news. The word "apartheid" was often heard. South Africa was becoming an issue of Ameri­can concern. 
For one reason or another the problem of South African racial injustice has lost its prominence in the American headlines. What once was a front page story now only occasion­ally receives coverage. A cynical explanation is that the story simply does not sell anymore. Another is that the problem solved itself of its own accord. If no news is good news, then, as far as America is concerned, there is no call for any action at all. 
The net effect of this media silence is that in 1987 it is easier than ever to put the apartheid issue away in a box and forget that the problem exists. 
Presidential candidates seem to be aware of this lack of interest on behalf of the American public. Apartheid is no longer considered a crisis. What this country should do, if anything, to help alleviate the racial injustice in that part of the world is not a question they choose to 
agement. In either case Reagan's lack of con­address. Because the public would rather know cern is not surprising. about the morality of the candidates' sex lives Serious problems rarely work themselves out than their views about foreign policy, no can­for the better. It also is hard to believe that the didate actively addresses an issue so far from lessened media coverage truly indicates that the mainstream concern. the problem has disappeared. Diseases that go 
In its seven years of conducting America's into recession always have the potential to reap­business the Reagan administration has been pear. The images of dismembered corpses most adept at avoiding the South African prob­strewn about the streets of Capetown -victims lem. The "wait-and-see" approach stemming of car bombs attributed to racial tensions-sadly from the White House does not take an active enough are likely to reappear in America's lead in ending the injustice. In fact it does just papers. When this happens the crisis mentality the opposite, it allows a volatile situation to run again will take hold. Then perhaps the wait­its course, with only the hope that the problem and-see policy will be called into question. will work itself out for the better. The cover story of this week's Time magazine 
As far as the public is aware, South Africa focuses on America's leadership crisis. The and apartheid never even enter into the Presi­lack of concern exemplified by a wait-and-see dent's imagination. In recent months political policy towards apartheid is a good example of commentary has portrayed Reagan as a dis­this failure in leadership. It means that our tracted and disengaged leader. Others give him government is limited to reactionary politics more credit and argue that his administration and does not actively seek to make the world survives from day to day through crisis man-a safer place. 
The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tQ Qur Qfflces and start wQrklng Qn yqur newspaper. 
Applications available for 
STUDENT ONION BOARD SECRETARY 
-be a part of SUB -get involved with steering committee, the planning arm of SUB. 
Pick up Applications at Student Union Board office, 2nd Floor LaFortune-due Tuesday, November 1 0 

LIP SYNC COl'lTEST 
North vs South Quad Saturday, November 7 Stepan Center 9:00pm 
. PRIZES ($$$)
mterested acts should contact Maura at 239-7757 or 283-2745 by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5. Sponsored by SUB. 

AMERICAN 

CANCER
~• SOCIETY~ 

Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 



Senior class is sponsoring 'Designated Driver Week' 
~~~~~;;~;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;
m 




UNITED WAY DRIVE 
Fitzgibbon stressed that this 
was to be an ongoing cam­paign, not just limited to this one week. She also said the sponsors of the event were not encouraging drinking to those 
who were not drivers. "We're not advocating others to get bombed," she said. "We just hope to keep at least one sober to drive.'t 
The culmination of the week will be the Senior Block Party on Friday at the JACC. The event will be open to all mem­bers of the Notre Dame and local communities. Local bands and community organi­zations will be represented at this event, with a variety of food available for purchase. The sponsors hope to forge a sense of community between the students and the local resi­dents, said Fitzgibbon. 

Wednesday, November 4, 1987 
Nieuwland 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
Construction will begin next May on the addition of a new three-story wing to Nieuwland Science Hall, said Don Dedrick, director of the physi­cal plant. 
The new wing will be added to the north side of the science hall and run parallel to the existing building across from the Clarke Memorial Fountain. "The completion of the addi­tion will take a full year from the start of construction," said Dedrick. 
The new wing will be used primarily for undergraduate physics classrooms and teacher offices, said . Mike Kenahan, director of founda­tion and corporate relations. Kenahan also said a consider­able amount of renovation will take place in the existing build­ing to improve facilities for microelectronics research. 
These renovations in the sci­ence hall will not be started un­til the summer of 1989, accor­ding to Dedrick. 
By MATT GALLAGHGER Staff Reporter 
The class of 1988 is sponsor­ing "Designated Driver Week," to be held Nov. 9-13. The purpose of the week is to increase awareness of the problem of drunk driving and to institute a designated driver 

SEX on CAMPUS: Aids and other sexually transmitted diseases 
Monday) November 9 
7:00 pm-film "Beyond Fear" 
8:00 pm-panel discussions and questions 
Location: Theodore's 
The Observer 

page 3 



to get new wing 
The primary impetus for the $5 million effort to renovate Nieuwland comes from John Dow and Jacek Furdyna, pro­fessors of physics, who are members of an elite nationwide consortium of nine researchers studying diluted magnetic semiconductors (OMS), said Kenahan. 
DMS research is primarily concerned with areas such as ultra-fast photonic computer parts that operate using light rather than electrons, accor­ding to Kenahan. 
Other universities represented in the consortium include North Carolina State, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Brown, Harvard and Purdue, Kenahan said. 
The consortium is funded by the Defense Advanced Re­search Projects Agency <DARPA), a U.S. Department of Defense funding agency. The government agreed to fund Dow's and Furdyna's microelectronics research un­der the condition that Notre Dame improve its facilities, said Kenahan. 
program in the community. The highlight of the week will be a block party to be held Friday, Nov. 13, at the Joyce ACC. 
The senior class is sponsor­ing this week, along with Stu­dent Government, the classes of 1989 and 1990, BACCHUS and the SUB. The purpose, accor-

The University then obtained an independent grant from Lilly Endowment Inc. that will match every dollar donated to the project with another dollar for up to $500,000, said Kenahan. He added that his of­fice is now seeking "a donor who would be willing to fund all or a large part of the remainder.'' 
"I don't think that construc­
tion  will  disturb  classes  too  
much," Dedrick said.  i'  
.  
However, he said a  tempo­ 
rary road would have to be es­ 
tablished next to the existing  
one that leads back to LaFor­ 
tune Student Center, Washing­ 
ton Hall and Cavanaugh Hall.  
Dedrick said the  new  wing  
will  extend  into  the  existing  
road and that a new road would  
have to be constructed closer  
to the pea~e memorial. He said  
the temporary road will prob­ably create some incon­veniences for traffic in that  Where am I again?  The Observer 1 Jo Whitfield  

... asks senior Mary Elberson. "Oh yeah, I think this is the library."
area next year. 

ding to Senior Class President Diane Fitzgibbon, is to make the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and South Bend communities more aware of the drunk driving problem which the area has been experiencing. Fitzgib­bon mentioned the death of classmate Michael Cogswell as an example of what drunk driving can cause. 
The class officers hope to persuade their fellow students and the residents of the com­
.lt!~~~~~~~~~;;~r;!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!~ ting the local business es-JIN, C tablishments which were part of the program. BridgetUniversity of Notre Dame McGuire's, The Commons, 
Foreign Study Uncle's, Chi-Chi's, the Alumni-Senior Club and other Programs participating businesses will PLAN NOW fOR offer free soft drinks to the des­
"RXT SUMMER ignated driver of each group. 
N1..1 
Fitzgibbon also said there would be letters in The Obser-GENERAL INFORMATION MEETING ver throughout the week to help Wednesday, November 4, 1987 increase awareness of the pro­gram. Letters will also be sent
0

6:.3 P· m. to local residents in an effort 21 7 O'Shaughnessy to involve them in the cam-ALL ARE W paign to prevent drunk driving. 
munity to begin the practice of bars (some of whom are co­having a designated driver sponsoring the event) and in when the members of a group the dining halls. These keyc­drink alcohol, according to hains will have "NDDD" Fitzgibbon. The designated printed on them, to remind the driver would promise not to student when he reaches for his drink alcoholic beverages and keys that he is a Notre Dame to drive home his friends who Designated Driver. do. Fitzgibbon said there would 
To increase awareness of the be permanent signs placed in designated driver campaign, the dorms and in the sponsor­the sponsors of the week will ing Michiana bars, reminding be distributing keychains the students and neighborhood throughout the week at local people of the program and lis­
, l't'lll'l' l"nqlKilumpuK ("mupat'l 
I ht•r~o~t•nM I '~~tlt•rJtr•dunlt• lnlt•ruMhlp'~ -;hnrl·lcrm Scnln• l·:xJ.Il'rit•m•t• Collin "'ir11thnnd 1-:xpu~~ourt• to a lk•u•lnpinM \utinn Ohtnin SiJinUknnt l'rnjl'l'l l·:xpt•ricnt'l'
----· •fJ,olp l't·an lurpto \'nlunll't'rM llcl11 lht•l't•nplt• nf tlw llcmtl'nuntr' ·----~~~ 
l·.dut·att• Otht•n~ .\bnut lht• Third Wnrld 
One sophomore or JUmor Notre Dame student 
SUPPORT THE UNITED WAY! 
will be nominated for a one semester or summer internship. Applications are available at The Center for Social Concerns, International Peace Institute or Career and Placement Office. Application Deadline: November 13 


--------------------------~----­
page 4 The Observer 
Man arrested for threat against Shultz 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -An un­employed chemist armed with three guns and at least 600 bul­lets was arrested Tuesday after allegedly telling his mot­her he was going to kill Secre­tary of State George Shultz, authorities said. 
Edward Lewis Gallo, 41, of Worcester, Mass., was taken into custody at a local hotel and charged with making a threat against a public official. 
A semi-automatic version of an M-16 rifle, two shotguns and 600 to 700 rounds of ammunition were removed from Gallo's car. 
Speaking briefly to reporters as he was being led by police to be booked, Gallo said, "I'm a tourist. I don't know ... I'm a tourist on vacation. I've been down here on vacation two or three other times." 
Asked about weapons, Gallo said, "I was going to go hun­ting. That's why I'm on vaca­tion." · 
Gallo was taken by police from a hotel in northeast Wash­ington, several miles away from the State Department, after a brief struggle outside his room at about 7:50a.m. The hotel's 22 guests were evacuated, according to police spokesman Wendell Samuels. 
Several blocks of New York A venue were closed during the morning rush hour, creating a huge traffic backup on the 
major  commuter  thorough­ 
fare.  
Sgt.  Michael  Vacca of the  

Worcester Police Department 
said in a telephone interview he was told by members of the Gallo family that the suspect had recently lost his job as a chemist for the city of Worcester and was "pretty un­stable." 
Vacca said he was told that Gallo left home Monday with a gun wrapped in his army jacket. 
He said he knew nothing about Gallo's political affilia­tions. He said Gallo's mother and a sister of the suspect in Pennsylvania had mentioned that Shultz might be a potential target, Vacca said. 
He added that Gallo would spend his time watching televi­sion news shows and often be­came quite upset. 

Court told abortion law p1rotects rights 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -States must be allowed to protect the right of parents to consult with their young daughters who seek abortions, the Supreme Court was told Tuesday. 
An Illinois law requiring that parents be notified at least 24 hours before teen-age girls abort their pregnancies should be reinstated, State Deputy At­torney General Michael Hayes argued. 
"The law protects the con­stitutional right of parents to properly control the upbring­ing of their children. It protects family structure and protects minors from their own im­maturity," he said. 
But Colleen Connell, a Chicago lawyer representing doctors who perform abor­tions, said the law exposes teen-age girls to medical risks in a misguided attempt to promote family unity. 
Lower courts have blocked the 1983 law from being en­forced. 
If the Supreme Court reinstates the law and it serves as a model for other states, abortion could become a less­available alternative for many American teen-agers who be­come pregnant. The number of such pregnancies now is more than 1 million a year. 
The court's decision in the case, the only abortion contro­versy currently before it, is ex­pected by July. 
The Illinois law, enacted by the state General Assembly over Gov. James Thompson's veto, required that unmarried girls under 18 and still finan­cially dependent on their par­ents notify both parents 24 hours before having an abor­tion. 

The law allowed a girl to avoid notifying her parents if she could prove to a state judge she was mature enough and well-informed enough to make the decision on her own and that notifying her parents would not be in her best inter­est. 
Doctors who failed to comply with the law's requirements faced criminal prosecution. 
A federal trial judge struck down the law, but the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals did not go that far. 
The appeals court ruled that the 24-hour waiting period was an impermissible infringement on the right to have an abor­tion. But it left to the state Su­preme Court the issue of whe­ther the law sufficiently protected the confidentiality and anonymity of girls who ap­peal when a judge denies per­mission for an abortion. 
Wednesday, November 4, 1987 

Archie-ology 
The Observer I Jo Whitfield 

SARG 
Student Alumni Relations Group 
presents 
Sheila M. O'Brien 
in the 

Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series 
ND undergrad & Law School Associate Judge, State of Illinois 
Thursday, Nov. 5, 4:00 pm Center for Continuing Education All Majors Welcome! 


chance for stardom? 
(The winners of RECORD-A-TUNE 





for... BY 
RECORD-A-TUNE ENTRY 



8:00pm Stepan Center Tickets $7.00 for students available at The CELLAR 
Name of Contact: ______ Names of group members: 
Address: _________ RETURN TO SUB OFFIC:h:, 2ND 
FLOOR LAFORTUNE Phone no.:__________ BY MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9 

Wednesday, November 4, 1987 The Observer page 5 





Security Beat 
Monday, November 2 
8:45a.m. A construction worker re­ported the theft of several aluminum window strips from the Loftus All­Sports Building. Loss Is estimated at $2000. 
9:45a.m. A South Bend resident driving a University employee's car was issued a traffic ticket for driving while his license was suspended. 
3:30p.m. A Notre Dame student turned in to security a man's watch that he found at the J .A.C.C. racquet­ball courts. 
8:42p.m. A security officer recovered a pair of Notre Dame jog­ging shoes that were taken in a lar­ceny on October 30 from the Hockey Pro Shop. 
!0:09p.m. A set of keys were found at the Lewis bus shelter and were turned into Security. 
Tuesday, November 3 
3:50a.m. A security officer on pa­trol in the D6 parking lot interrupted a break-in of a car. The perpetrator fled from the lot into the wooded area near WNDU as the officer entered the lot. The suspect is described as a 5'7" white male weighing 140 lbs. with collar length brown hair. He was wearing blue jeans, a grey hooded sweat shirt and a dark jacket. Further investigation revealed that the suspect was at­tempting to steal speakers from a student's car. One of the windows in the car had already been broken. Anyone seeing suspicious persons or vehicles in any area of campus is asked to immediately call Security at 283-4444 or 239-5555. 
7:37a.m. A Coca-Cola employee re­ported the theft of three sets of key rings from his delivery truck be­tween Thursday October 29 and Friday October 30. 
9:20a.m. A California resident re­ported the theft of a black and red Gortex ski jacket from his car at the main circle between 11:00 a.m. and noon on October 10. His loss is esti­mated at $200. 


MW'e've gotl:b.e 

eompetitioa 
The Fresh Alternative is even fresher with our oven-fresh sub rolls, baked on the premises. So don't settle for styrofood served on styrobuns. Come up to Subway where the sandwiches and salads are always fresh and delicious. 
~:..... l...l~,~,.~.

l~Mi,_:.. 
Save $$$ by using these coupons at Subway Sandwiches and Salads located just north of Ironwood on S.R. 23. Ph. 277-7744 
$1.00 OFF FOOTLONG SEAFOOD & CRAB $1.00 off a regular footlong Seafood and Crab sand­wich. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 

~10.00 OFF SIX FOOT PARTY SUB $10.00 off a Subway six-foot party sub. Please order 48 hours In advance. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 

$1.00 OFF FOOTLONG BMT OR CLUB $1.00 off a regular footlong Subway BMT or Club sandwich. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 

Reagan nominates a woman to be secretary of labor 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -President Reagan on Tuesday nominated former Interior Under­secretary Ann Dore McLaugh­lin to succeed William Brock as secretary of labor and bring a woman back into his Cabinet. 
Reagan called McLaughlin, who also has held senior roles in the Treasury Department and the Environmental Protec­tion Agency, a women of "un­common experience and com­petence . . . who has won my full confidence and support." 
With only 15 months remain­ing in the administration, there appeared to be little sentiment among Democrats and labor unions for opposing the nomination. 
"We're going to take a pretty good look at her, but it doesn't seem like she's drawing any





,----, 
I When You're Ready for a I 
I STUDY I I BIIEAK I It PRICE I I o~u!2!:!!~ I
I I
I Can't Believe It's 


I ~~!!!~:. I 
I 
South Bend, IN 46637 11 am -11 pm 
I 

271-9540 Sunday Walking distance from Notre Dame 11 am -7 pm 
With coupon. , 
1Ci 1986. ICan rBelieve It's Yogurt. Inc. 

NEED A BIRTHDAY CAKE
' 

(or) FRESH BAKED GOODS? The Notre Dame Student Cake Service can help you. 

Dellve Date Sender's Name 
ry .............................. & Phone 
.................................... 

Reclplenfs Name & Address ~ ................................................"............... 
Cakes:sizes: 8"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.0(1 chocolate half sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(8" only) CHEESECAKES(8"): plain $10.50 Icing: white w/ fruit $12.50 --chocolate(add 1.50) 
BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen PARTY KIT: $2.50-lncludes plates Doughnuts: Variety Box forks, napkins, candles, $4.50 per dozen &a knife 
serious opposition," said Paul Donovan, a spokesman for the Senate Labor and Human Re­sources Committee headed by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass. He added the panel has not yet decided when it will hold hearings on the nomina­tion. 
Sen. Orrin Hatch of utah, senior Republican on the Labor and Human Resources Com­mittee, called the choice of McLaughlin "an inspired one. Ann has the ability and back­ground to run the department." He added that "she is well­respected and her experience in government will bring a spe­cial expertise to the Labor De­partment." 
McLaughlin gave up the No. 2 post in the Interior Depart­ment, a job she had held for three years, last March follow­ing several clashes with Inte­rior Secretary Donald Hodel. 
"When I left your adminis­tration earlier this year, I had no idea I would be back so soon," McLaughlin, 45, told Reagan in a White House Rose Garden ceremony announcing her nomination. 
Neither Reagan nor McLaughlin addressed any is­sues facing the department, in­cluding a large backlog of pending regulations in the Oc­cupational Safety and Health Administration. 
But, if confirmed by the Sen­ate, she can be expected to lead the administration's fight against a broad agenda of legis­lation being pushed in Congress by labor unions. 
Among more than a dozen bills moving through Congress are measures to raise the min­imum wage, .frozen at $3.35 an hour since 1981, to require 60 days advance notice of plant closings and large layoffs and to mandate employer-provided health insurance. 
As Interior Undersecretary, McLaughlin reorganized gov­ernment coal-leasing pro­grams that had come under se­vere criticism while James Watt was secretary. 
When Hodel became secre­tary in 1985, he began taking charge of some of the depart­ment's more controversial is­sues himself, such as oil drill­ing off the California coast. 
Colleagues said McLaughlin, who had been serving as the department's "chief operating officer" under Hodel's predecessor, William Clark, felt that the scope of her au­thority was being narrowed. 
At the time of her resigna­tion, she reportedly was being courted by the White House to succeed White House spokes­man Larry Speakes. That job eventually went to Marlin Fitzwater, an associate of McLaughlin when she held top press relations jobs in the Trea­sury Department and the En­vironmental Protection Agency. 
McLaughlin was communi­cations director for President Nixon's re-election campaign in 1972 and his second in­auguration in 1973. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
member team that will repre­sent Notre Dame in a national trivia contest to be held this January in Florida. One person from each dorm will be sent to the campus contest to compete for a a place on the team. The representatives will have all their expenses paid for the trip to Florida. 
HPC is in the process of for­
mulating a proposal to increase 
student ticket allocation for 
away football games. If the 
game is within a 250 mile 
radius, the current policy 
reserves for students 5 percent 
of the 5,000 tickets the Univer­
sity receives. If the game is fur­
ther than 250 miles from 
campus students receive 1 per­
cent of the 5,000 tickets. 
Dr. Goldrick will be meeting with HPC November 5 to dis­cuss topics such as food fight repayment, alcohol awareness, jurisdiction boundaries of Of­fice of Student Mfairs, SYRs and hall finances. 

The Observer Wednesday, November 4, 1987
page 6 

Expected selection for defense secretary praised 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senators of both parties predicted Tuesday that Frank Carlucci, President Reagan's national security ad­viser, would be easily con­firmed as secretary of defense if nominated as expected to replace Caspar Weinberger. 
Weinberger's resignation and Carlucci's selection are likely to be announced later this week, according to admin­istration and congressional sources speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Officially, neither the White House nor the Pentagon con­firmed the reports, and both Weinberger and Carlucci declined comment. 
Sources said Carlucci would be replaced as director of the National Security Council staff by Army Lt. Gen. Colin Powell, who is currently Carlucci's deputy. Powell would be the first black to hOld that position and would be the sixth national 
Mayor 
continued from page 1 . 
to get there, and get there well," he said, "is together." 
"With all of us working to­gether South Bend will con­tinue to be the greatest place in North America," he said. 
Conceding defeat, Baxmeyer told friends and supporters he "thinks it's important to the city of South Bend that we get behind the city, promote it and try to do our best in the next four years to make the city all it can be." 
"We rp.n a good campaign. We worked hard, it was a clean campaign" he said. "We just didn't quite get the job done." 
Baxmeyer said he plans to 
remain politically active in the 
future. "I think the area needs 
a couple of strong political par­
ties," he said. "As far as run­
ning for office, I don't know if 
I could say in the near future, 
anyway." 
"I'm not real anxious to start 
running again" he said. 
security adviser in Reagan's presidency. 
Weinberger, 70, plans to leave because his wife Jane is in poor health, suffering from cancer and severe arthritis, the sources said. 
Dixon also predicted better relations between the Pent­agon and the Democratic­controlled Congress, saying: "I think Carlucci tends to be 
more moderate. Cap is your quintessential hawk. He was also fairly confrontational. I think that Carlucci may be a little less so." 
That same trait worried Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., an early ~einberger critic who turned mto a staunch supporter. When the.Senate voted 97-2 to confirm Wemberger o~ ~an. 2~, 1?81,_the Re~~an ad~mistr.abon s frr:st offic.Ial day m office, the dis­sentmg vote~ were cast . by Helms and his North Carolma colleague, the late John East. 
SMC plans events to aid Chile 
By CHRISTINE MCCANN 
News Staff 

A day of public-awareness events to publicize the plight of Chileans who cannot afford the poll-tax required to vote, and to help them pay that tax, will be held Nov. 16 in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall, Board of Governance president Eileen Hetterich announced Tuesday. 
The program will include a slide show and a display of Chilean art, and will culminate in a showing of the Jack Lem­mon and Sissy Spacek film "Missing," which deals with military takeover in the third world. 
Mary Ann White, a senior En­glish major, is organizing the project, which is co-sponsored by the Board and the Depart­ment of Justice Education. 
Hetterich said although there will be no entrance fee, dona­tions are encouraged to help pay poll-taxes in Chile. At the present time, many Chileans are unable to express their opinion through the voting process because they are un­able to afford the high taxes placed upon voting, she said. 
A new merchandising policy issued by Mary Ellen Smith, director of student activities, was distributed to board mem­bers. The policy states that all student groups must receive permission from the Office of Student Activities before they can sell any items. The policy states other stipulations, in­cluding "sexist, alcohol-or drug-related designs will not be allowed." 
Vice-President Smith Has­hagen reminded members that Student Government will spon­sor the Alumnae Speaker Se­ries again this evening at 6: 30 in Stapleton Lounge. Featured will be Kathleen Flynn-Fox, a former Saint Mary's historymajor. 

U.S. Navy hits fishing boat 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahratn -Persian Gulf shipping sources said Tuesday a U.S. Navy frigate fired on a fishing boat last weekend, not a hostile Iranian craft as the Pentagon believed, and killed an Indian member of its crew. 
They quoted another crew­man as saying the warship fired machine guns Sunday night even though the fishing boat and two others with it showed lights and were making way for the frigate and a refuel­ing tanker it was escorting out of the gulf. The Pentagon iden­tified the Navy ship as the USS Carr. 
In Kuwait, a small bomb ripped the side off a police van parked near the Interior Mini­stry on Tuesday, heightening fears of Iranian sabotage in the rich Persian Gulf sheikdom but causing no casualties. 
It was the lOth bombing re­ported this year in Kuwait, all blamed on Shiite Moslem militants who back the fun­damentalist Shiite regime of Iran in the 7-year-old war with Iraq. Iran accuses Kuwait of aiding Iraq and fired three mis­siles into its oil terminal­. anchorage complex last month, hitting two tankers and 
a major loading dock. 
The shipping sources' ac­
count of the shooting incident, 
which the Pentagon said oc­
curred at dusk Sunday near the Iranian island of Abu Musa, was similar in many respects to that offered earlier by offi­cials in Iran. They denied any Iranian boats were involved in an encounter with the Navy. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency quoted a military spokesman as saying: "Our investigations yesterday and today show that, contrary to U.S. claims, noun­usual event happened near the Abu Musa island Sunday eve­ning." 
Abu Musa, a small island in the southern gulf, has been used as a base for Iranian speedboat attacks on neutral shipping. 
In Washington, the Pentagon said Tuesday it was investigat­ing the report that the boat fired upon was a fishing vessel but had no information so far that sustained the claim. 
India's consul in Dubai, Aroun Kumar, said police in Sharjah told him late Tuesday only that "one Indian citizen was killed by gunshot wounds in the high seas." 
According to the shipping sources, machine-gun fire from the Carr killed one Indian crew member and wounded three. Hospital officials in Sharjah, one of the United Arab Emirates, denied reports that some seamen were hospi­talized or treated there. 
Some American officials in the gulf had said Monday the boats might have been neutral fishing craft. 


TERRIFIC VALUE 

join us for "BEEFY WEDNESDAY" Purchase a 14" Roast Beef Sub and receive an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge.
• 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Wednesday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion 
To the 
BEST D.J. 
SCOTT FLORA 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY you big goof! 


r-------------------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint
Wednesday, November 4, 1987 page 7 
NO should not recognize gay group 


It is always exhilarating to see the press functioning as it should. The column and editorial of November 3 on the issue of homosexuality show that The Observer can and does serve as an effective forum for all issues. 
Matt Crowley 
guest column 
However, as a member of the news­paper, a student at Notre Dame, and a Christian, I feel I must write in dissent of The Observer's opinion on the recognition of the Gays and Lesbians at NDSMC. 
Although I am going against my gen­erally positive nature in publicly criticizing a proposal, I feel truly obligated to state that I am wholeheart­edly against the recognition of the club. I will go so far as to say that I am morally opposed to the acknowledge­ment of such a club by the religiously-
P.O. Box Q 
Violence in sports misplaced at NO 
Dear Editor: 
I have just spent a day attending Notre Dame sporting events, and I would like to share my impressions with the campus community. I have been very upset with some of the things which I experienced and though I don't believe my writing this letter will really change anything, I feel compelled to bring these observations to the atten­tion of the readers of the Observer. 
The most upsetting thing to me was the behavior of the fans at Saturday's hockey game against Windsor at the ACC. Though I was given the impres­sion by an usher that I would be sitting in the student section, there were a number of males sitting near me who could barely have passed for civilized people, never mind college students. Evidently, they were quite drunk, and continued drinking in the stands as they hurled obscenities at the Windsor players. Of course, I am aware that college students imbibe alcoholic beverages; in fact, I have been known to do so myself from time to time, but the obnoxious banterings of these three hooligans spurred me to leave the game 
Doonesbury 
oriented school that I attend. 
Being somewhat paranoid about publicly expressing my opinions on sensitive issues, I wish to make a few things clear right away. I am not homophobic. In fact, someone close to me is an admitted homosexual, and I do not berate the person. I do not wish to instigate any sort of witchhunt either; while my values lead me to speak against such a club, I do not in­tend to condemn or degrade homosexuals. 
Instead, I am fielding my objection to the idea of recognizing a group that seeks to advocate a lifestyle that is in direct opposition to the set of values established by the Catholic Church, with which this University has strong ties. 
The label 'advocate' is appropriate because the club is composed of mem­bers who are very certain in their minds and hearts that they are homo­sexual. They are not "exploring their sexuality" or ciPhlltinoo thP moralitv of alternative lifestyles. They are not con­cerned with debate on "a proper Cath­olic response to such a life." The club is an advocacy group, looking to promote their lifestyle and encouraging others to consider the "gay" life. 

Once we begin with recognition of one commonly objectionable group, where do we stop? Shall we have a Nazi club as well? But, hey gang, it only wants to have a public discussion on the ex­termination of Jews ... 
Or maybe form an Atheist club. We could meet in the theology department offices! 
Also, when we allow the Gays and Lesbians of NDSMC to be formally recognized, we have tossed aside one of our Christian values. 
How do we justify blinding an entire campus to the advocacy of a lifestyle that our community as a whole finds objectionable? And if you beat me on that point, how do you prevent further erosion of the moral character of an institution that is famous for its 
and write this letter. 
The worst part of this experience for me was the fact that these ram­bunctious youths were merely the most extreme examples of an attitude I found pervasive among both the hockey crowd and the typical crowd at a Notre Dame football game. Granted, both of these sports are very physical, and that is what attracts many fans to the games. But even beyond the consider­ations of good sportsmanship, I just have to wonder why there is such a lust for blood and even death on the part of Notre Dame students, who are rumored to be such a Christian bunch in much of the country. At each home football game, I find myself yelling at the Notre Dame defense to inflict pain upon the opposing team's players. When I be­come aware of this, I do not feel com­fortable with myself and I wonder why I am driven to such feelings. But when I look around the stadium, and listen to the crowd, I see and hear things which belie the Christian image Notre Dame has of itself as a university. 
As for considerations of sportsman­ship, I would like to say that the hockey fans at tonight's game were to a large degree lacking in this quality. I quickly got the impression that they had come more to see a fight than a good hockey game. Perhaps there would be a bigger 

6cN7UMCN,/r()(JI?. PROTeSTIS 
ANYONE

THANK$,
TO 51Ja£W, IAERE GOIN6 7D 
HER& HAl?

BARNEY, BI1T 
N/351? A CHieF ClXJRPINATOR. ANI? 
MOREI.£AO­

YES, HE./?.13~
I JOfTKNOW 
UH...
c/CSHIP [;X­

JNt60TIIW/?.. NOW, PH//, SLACJ<­
/PI'MTH& 
/ \

-M~YE!i!. H&R& HASI?UNSCV&PAL 
P&I<I£NCE

MAN FOR ...
• ' ({)/?POI?A-/"".' 
THAN-........_ 

TIONS... 
PH/f.;~ 

" 
~ 
crowd if they brought professional hockey or better yet, professional wres­tling to the ACC, but I thought the point of intercollegiate athletics went beyond such crass commercialism, at least at Notre Dame. 
I don't expect that this letter will be read by the few barbarians who com­pletely ruined my enjoyment of the hockey game. It is my sincere hope, though, that those of you who have taken the time to read it are motivated by it to explore your own psyches and to be more aware of the cultural meaning of your behavior at sporting events. 
Jimi Stukas St. Joseph's Hall 

Senior Class works on drunk driving 
Dear Editor: 
The Senior Class of Notre Dame is embarking upon a very important cam­paign. We are addressing the issue of drunk driving. This issue has undoubt­edly been raised and approached again and again from many different angles, but the thrust of our campaign is as follows: It is our hope that every time a person or group of people gets in a car after going to a party, bar or other 
Garry Trudeau 
IUS/3.0 
7013E-A 61J/ERNCR. 
/ 
''wholesomeness?'' 
I suppose once we accept an ad­vocacy group for homosexuality, we can get to work on some serious stuff, like restarting free love. 
Lastly, I wish to address one of Pro­fessor Storey's comments. 
He remarked that the University has implemented a "Conspiracy of Silence" which prevents discussion of homosexuality. Apparently, he failed to notice the appearance of his own column. He proved on Nov. 3 that there are places to discuss volatile issues, and that all people have the right of access to them. 
Public discussion on the morality of homosexuality is a good thing, and I am glad to see it being conducted in a newspaper that I work for. My objec­tion is to the advocacy of this lifestyle on campus, and I hope that the Univer­sity continues to answer the question of recognition with a big "No." Matt Crowley is a sophomore business major and is a News Copy Editor. 
alcohol-related event, that there is a sober driver behind the wheel, that this act of designating drivers becomes a habit, and that this habit will remain with all of us throughout life. 
In support of this, we have planned for the week of Nov. 9 -Nov. 13 a Des­ignated Driver Week. During this week, special attention will be given to the issue of drunk driving. There will be guest columns in the Observer from people who have different perspectives and insights on drunk driving. We will distribute special "Designated Driver" keys to go on your keychain with the inscription "N.D.D.D." These keys will serve to remind you not to drink and drive as well as let others know you support this program. We will display posters which advertise the names of the local bars who will support the pro­gram by supplying N.D.D.D. keys to students and community members and give free soft drinks to designated drivers. 
On Friday of the Designated Driver Week is the annual Senior Class/Neigh­borhood Block Party at which students and community members get together for a party. Let this be for us a celebra­
tion of life and all of  our  efforts to  
preserve it.  
Suzy Happ  

Designated Driver Week Chairman 
Quote of the Day 
"A friend Is one who walks In when others walk out." 
Walter Winchell 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief_ .. Kevin Becker Business Manager ...-... .. .. Brian Murray 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager . .. . David Culligan 
News Editor .... _ . ............. Chns Bednarski Advertising Manager... . . Melinda Chapleau News Editor ........... . .......... Jim Riley Production Manager... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor ....... . ........ Chns Murphy Projects Manager... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor ... .. .............. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager..... ........... Shawn Sexton 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily refler.t the policies of 
the admm1stration of Bllher Institution. The News is reponed as accurately and ObJeCtively as 
Accent Editor .... . ... Michael Naughton Controller.. Tracy Schindele 
Saint Mary's Editor .. . _ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager Laura Stanton Photo Editor ... _ Jim Carroll
poss1ble Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of the matority of the Editorial Board. 
Commentanes, leners and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the~r authors. Column space 
IS available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions 
on campus, through leners. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1968 
Ace
Wednesday, November 4, 1987 
I I I I I I I 
I I I I 
I I I I I. 


Ode to a recruiter: 'I Don't Want to Work' 
1\ s a junior liberal arts major months ago." construction company driving a and I would say something I did end up getting sick. I ~ am being forced to face "No dice, bucko. Now how truck. My partner was this little like, "Jeez Marie, Gus, how spent New Year's Eve with a the big question: "Just what do about that job?" hairy guy named Gus, and about those crazy Iranians!" At temperature of I 04 degrees I want to do after I graduate?" I shut the drawer. I don't when I say little and hairy I this point he would wake up and a great view of my Also as a junior liberal arts need to wear underwear that mean really little and really Immediately and talk about bedroom ceiling. Bobby had major, I am being forced to badly. hairy. In fact. he looked like a "them damn ferrlners" for the nerve to call me at home. face the big answer: "I want to I soon learned, though, that hair ball. He was chubby, he hours. It was slightly better "When you a comin' back to vegetate." Well okay, that's not there's no escaping it. Some­chewed tobacco, and he must than being dead. work?" entirely true. In addition to body has decided, without con­have asked me the question Last Christmas I washed "I know where your house is, 
"Ya got a little woman son?" at dishes at an Italian resturaunt Bobby." least .375 times. called Mama DISalvo's. Some "What you say?" 
We drove equipment and genius of kitchen engineering "''m going to firebomb it. messages from construction had decided to place the dish­Bobby, for what you've done to site to construction site, and washing sink and machine my lungs." we listened to country music all right next to the back door. "What you say?" day. Most of the time, Gus This back door was the sole These experiences have con­talked about his little woman. rear entrance, and that meant vinced me that I wasn't meant Other times he talked his little that all the garbage went out to hold a real job. Additionally, 
ten to some records, throw a a job set up for them when alcohol problem. Still other the back door. That meant that I have little or no interest in few parties for old friends, read they leave school. Personally, I times, he was content to just the door was always open, and making a fortune. It seems some good books, wash the think it's a big joke. Nobody kind of fall asleep while driving the temperature outside was ridiculous to spend .30 or 40 car, get in touch with my REALLY wants me to get a job; on the highway. averaging a balmy ten degrees years working yourself to the karma, brush the cat, kill they just want to play with my This was definitely a bad above zero. bone to amass a huge fortune Spuds McKenzie, wash the car mind. After I graduate, certain thing. You don't know what a To add to the problem, the that you will only be able to again... . mysterious STUFF will just hap­bad thing is until you face very same genius of kitchen enjoy when you're about .300 
"Uh... Kris?'' pen, and I'll be independent. death with a hairball named engineering had placed the years old. I also have trouble "Huh?" Maybe Santa will leave $20,000 Gus and Mel Tillis croaking out freezer out in the parking lot. taking orders. I'm just in a bad "What about getting a job?" in starting cash in my stocking. of the dashboard at top No joke. it was also my job to way jobwise. "Who are you and what are or my cat will lay a golden egg volume. I could just imagine run out and get endless pans Is there anyone else like this 
you doing in my underwear or something. the headlines: "Notre Dame of linguini and jugs of wine. out there? Sometimes it seems drawer?" I hope something happens, Student Dies In Flaming Hair­After a few days, I realized that that most of the students here 
"''m your conscience, your because my job experiences so ball." They would have a running from a steamy kitchen are looking forward to having common sense, your better far have ranked right up near double funeral for Gus and I. to a freezer in ten degree wea­careers. Wake upl You've got it half, your.... " dry heaves and shock therapy and Mel Tillis would play a ther was a sure ticket to death good right now. 
"Yeah, yeah. I thought I left on the pleasure scale. benefit concert in our memory. by pneumonia. My boss was a School seems hard now, but you at The Commons two One summer I worked for a It was all too much to take, young Italian guy named Bob­in restrospect it will look like a by. I tried to explain the proverbial romp through the
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
pneumonia situation to him. tulips. Soon you'll be crawling 
"Uh, Bobby. Something has up the corporate ladder, cur­to be done about this. I'm sing your co-workers and going to get sick. It's not safe." giving yourself heart disease. 
"What you say?" Fun huh? You'll be making "I said I'm going to get sick money, lots of it, but will you 
and die!" have time to spend it? Is "What you say?" Tammy Faye Baker a natural "Sick! Diet Me!" beauty? Heck not "What you say?" Anybody want to join me in "I think we have a communi­my vegetation crusade? 
cation problem, Bobby." Anybody? No takers? Oh well. "No problem at alii Go get Drop by and visit me some­some linguini." time. Bring your checkbook. 

nt 
.... 

pageB-9 

THERESA LOOMIS accent writer 
N
eed a laugh? The AT&T College Comedy Tour guarantees a night of sheer and uninhibited fun featuring both well-known entertainers and Notre Dame's own not-sa­well-known performers. 
Master of Ceremonies for the event will be none other than Calvert Deforest, better known to David Letterman fans as Larry "Bud" Melman. His unique sense of humor, which has given birth to such con­cepts as "Toast on a Stick," has earned him national recognition. Some even con­sider him a cult hero. The Notre Dame community Is sure to boast some of these fol­lowers who will undoubtly rise up for this occasion. 
The November 20, 8 p.m. 

childhood and views of the 
world are sure to amuse. 
Notre Dame students, who as 
of yet remain unidentified, will 
provide the opening act by 
singing with the help of 
Record-A-Tune. This concept 
allows people to select one of 
five hundred popular songs 
which has dropped the lead 
vocal, thereby giving the 
honors to aspiring (or maybe just enthusiastic) performers. 
show at Stepan Center will fea­ture comedians Rita Rudner and Emo Phillips. Rudner, who has also made appearances on the Letterman show, finds her Inspiration In Woody Allen and reflects this with her humorous observations on life. Her witty Insight reveals Itself In material dealing with relationships, run­away boyfriends, mothers specializing In food poisoning, and the Indignity of bathing caps, for example--all topics with which many ND students will be able to Identify. 
The bizarre and unpredicta­ble Phillips has made appear­ances on Letterman, a Clnemax special, and HBO. His craziness 
pervades his new album, E M02. Commenting on the plaid polyester pants he wears, he states, "''ve found women are attracted to the Dacron look." And his weird stories about his A Record-A-Tune contest at 9 
p.m. on November 10 will de­termine the three lucky acts to precede the comedians. The AlumnVSenlor Club, the site of the contest, Is designating the evening "Undergrad Night" so that no talented (or amusing) acts remain undiscovered. Judges Include Dean Brown, local comic Steven Kimbrough, and a ZIP 104 personality among others. Entry blanks may be found In this Issue of The Observer, at the bookstore, and on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. 

Both activities are sponsored by SUB, the sophomore, junior, and senior classes, and ZIP 
104. Fun-loving students and other Interested parties can purchase tickets for the Novem­ber 20 AT&T College Comedy Tour appearance at the Cellar for $7. 
Hard times for meadowfoam growers 
Associated Press 
C
ORVALLIS, Ore.-Dr. Gary Jolliff plants a five-Inch stack of reports, scientific papers and clippings on a small patch of desk In his crowded office at Oregon State University's Crop Science build­Ing. Jolliff Is a professor, a part-time researcher and full­time advocate for Llmnanthes alba, commonly known as meadowfoam. Its flowers produce an oilseed touted for 20 years as an answer to every­thing from Wlllamette Valley field burning to the slaughter of sperm whales. 
Native to Oregon and nor­thern California, meadowfoam's unique qualities--Its combina­tion of carbon atoms makes It a durable, heat-tolerant oil-­were discovered In the 1950s. In the '60s, It was seen as a replacement for oil from the endangered sperm whale; In the 70s It offered a renewable substitute for finite oil reserves. It also could be an alternative for grass seed growers, be­cause It could be grown In fields used primarily for grass 
·o:ed, but would not require field burning after harvest. 
Jolliff gets exasperated as he thumbs through the stack, reviewing press accounts of Inflated expectations of an eco­nomic and environmental miracle. Such optimism didn't reflect the slow, halting nature of turning a plant such as meadowfoam Into a crop. 
Meadowfoam Is named for the appearance of an ankle­deep white foam that a field of the stuff gives. Growing fields of foam is the easy part, Jolliff says. He calls meadowfoam a "national treasure" and a po­tential $80-mllllon-a-year crop. The frustration comes In cul­tivating the political and finan­cial support needed to turn the plant's promise to profit. 
"We know how to make plants profitable," Jolliff says. "We just have to Invest In them. You don't have to be very smart to see that If you put some research Into this thing, It will go places." 
New crops don't have a con­stituency to press for research funds, he says. And many ob­servers of meadowfoam are cynical, having witnessed the rise and fall of the crop's prospet:ts in the 1960s and 
70s. 

Meadowfoam Is currently used In cosmetics and hair products. Japanese companies have been buying a small share of the crop since 1985. Now meadowfoam Is billed as an option for farmers of surplus crops, such as wheat. But none of these bursts of Interest have produced any burst of research money. 
But meadowfoam still holds promise. Bob Buchanan, direc­tor of the Oregon Department of Agriculture, says the majority of agriculture leaders regard meadowfoam as a credible crop. Jolliff was Invited to tell Congress about a pro­posed new research agency. And U.S. Representative Bob Smith has become Interested In finding money for meadow­foam research, an aide says. 
But to market meadowfoam on a large scale, growers must offer buyers a low, stable price. Meadowfoam oil Is now priced at $.3.60 per pound, but oftl­clals say it should flatten out at $1. It's a vicious cycle. Without money for research and devel­opment, It is hard to attract Investors. Without Investors, It's 
hard to demonstrate quality, 
yield and market demand to justify the research. 
"So many people want proof 
before they're willing to Invest" 
says Jolliff. "It's not In the 
cards for bureaucrats to take 
risks." 
The risks fall to the 2.3 grass 
seed growers experimenting 
with meadowfoam. They've In­
vested $500,000 and 1,000 acres of land. Oil from har­vested seeds is extracted In Texas, refined in California and 
trucked back to Oregon, where all but 15 of the flrst 75 tons are stored waiting for a market. 
"The market Isn't Interested In buying a product because there Isn't a constant supply," says Dave Nelson of Associa­tions for Grass Seed and Meadowfoam Growers. "And farmers don't want to grow It because there's no market." 
WVFI TOP TEN 
'" 1. The Motion of Love Gene Loves Jezebel . 2. Rain in the Summertime The Alarm 
3. The Right Stuff Bryan Ferry "'''~· Before Too Long Paul Kelly and the Messengers 
5. 
Whats the Matter 10,000 Maniacs 

6. 
Fight Like a Brave The Red Hot Chili Peppers 


7. 
Right Here The Go-Betweens 

8. 
White Coats New Model Army 

9. 
Fangs Trip Shakespeare 


10. Hourglass Squeeze 
Thill chart compned from the playllsts of WVA-AM640 a• of Nov. 3, I 987, 

-

__j 
Wednesday, November 4, 1987
page 10 
The Observer 
"'''lea.--Notrw o.me office, located on the thlnl floor of LaFortune Stu­dent c.ntw, eccepts cluslflecl .m.ti*'G from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday thlough Frlder. n.a.--s.1nt u.ry'a offtce, located on the thlnl floor of Hllgg.-Collge Cent•. accepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday ttm1ug11 Frlder. DMdllne for next-day claaalfledsls 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must 
Classifieds be pn!IIMI, elth.-In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five char.:ters p.-day. 
NOTICES  TICKETS  Looking for 2 BC tix (stud or GA) Will pay for them or trade Barna tlx. Call Lisa £1319  HELP! TERRORISTS holding my family hostage for 1 BAMA STUD TIK PLEASE CALL MIKE 3198  Christina (6th floor PE) Thanks for the treats! Don't avoid the Noidlll The NOID-1 deliver!  Becky: Just a  few  things  before  we  go  out  
tonight.  
TYPING AVAILABLE  NEED 1 GA FOR BC  HELP! NEED 1 BAMA CALL KAREN £4675.  GA.  PLEASE  I HAVE 2 B.C. STUD. TICKETS.WILL SELL TO HIGHEST BIDDER BY 12:00  Pam B. Here's my half: 1st Down 4th & Goal G.S. P.T. A.J. B.B .... Lisa Lisa  One: Don't bring up business. Two: Don't talk about school. Three: Forget about  
287·4082  CALL SHAWN AT 2235  THURS. NIGHT. CALL BETHANI 271·  your boyfriend.  
I have B.C. G.A.'s!SO yardersl Will trade  0234  All I want you to do is to stare into my  
ADOPTION: Loving couple, physicial'11!sychologist, deeply wishes to adopt newborn. Welcoming warm family, love, opportunities! Expenses paid. Le­gal, confidential. Call Ellie or Alan collect 212· 724-7942. TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997  ********************************* ********************************* I really, really, really need 1 Alabama ticket. Student or GA will do. Call John at 283­2445. *********************************  ONLY for GOOD 'BAMA G.A.'S. CALL Rob j 106 NOW!! HELPIII I NEED B.C. TIXS STUD. OR GA WILL DO CALL 1663 NEED ONE B.C. STUD. TICKET FOR THE CHICK CALL PAT 271-0463 BC & ALABMAIIII NEED STUD TIX FOR BOTH GAMES. FRIENDS MUST SEE  South Bend native would like parents to see HOMEGROWN HERO A.Johnson play. I need 2 or 4 GA's for B.C. If you can help, call Craig at 234-7018. PERSONALS  HOLY ST. JUDE: Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue, rich in miracles, Kinsman in Christ, intercessor of all who invoke your aid in time of need. I pray to you to use your God given power to aid in my urgent petition. In return I promise to publish your Novena and to make your name known. Three Hail Marys and three Glorlas. Say for nine days. Publication must be promised. Novena never falls.  eyes and think about love. Mr. Right Cookie dough fingernails excite mel  
*********************************  ND  Pl.AY  FOR  FIRST  TIME!  CALL  
Wordprocesslng-Typing  JOHN AT 3451  ATTENTION ALL ART LOVERS:  That's just lhe way you are I  
272-8827 Typing  BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered for BC GA's I'm  I HAVIE 'BAMA  TWO BC GA'S, BUT NEED GA'S INSTEAD. WOULD  WAKE UP!  You don't have to be an artist to appre­ciate great art, nor do you have to be an artist to be a part of this organization! The STUDENT LIAISON COMMITTEE  But I still love you I  
237·1949 or 277-8131  holding your family hostage Please call Chris X 1469 NEED ALABAMA GA TIX.  PAY  BIG  PREFER TO TRADE BUT WILL SETTLE FOR LARGE AMOUNTS OF CASH IF NO TRADE AVAIL. INTERESTED? CALL ,JEFF AT X1802  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER a. LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  wants you to get involved. Come to the SNITE Board Room Nov.5 at 5:30 If you are interested!  remember the suburbs  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233·7009. AN ARCHITECT'HNGINEER'S  BUCKSII 6pm. BC  CALL  JOE  287·4561  after  NEED 6 BAMA GA's. CALL 4199. $$$$$ MY PACKAGE HURTS SO MUCH THAT  DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM I WILL PAY $$$1 CALL  HOBBES you're still pretty awesome.  Pajama Party lor all Physics students Saturday night Be there  
CHALLENGE: Build a school, hospital, village, bridge  Yep, I need two GAs for the Boston Col· lege game. Please call Mike at 271-0765.  I CAN'T DRINK, so I've saved a huge amount of cash which I will pay for 4 BC  SUE AT X4238  CALVIN p.s. Let's go in. It's not getting any colder  
-build a whole new wo~d. But build them  GAs. BIG, BIG $$$ FOR 4 BC GAs. Call  out.  
with us. We're the Maryknoll Missioners ·a professional response by Roman Cath· olic Priests, Brothers and Sisters to the people and wo~d of the 21st Century. CALL: Father Skip Flynn (312) 787-8496.  DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL JOHN AT 3064  John, 271-0464. Desperately need 2 BC GA'a Kevin X2343 HELPIIHELPII NEED ONLY ONE STU·  CHOOSE YOUR DESTINATION ·Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East -and we will help you get there. We are working as teachers, communijy developers, agronomists, engineers, doctors, nurses, and psychologists around the world. We are the Maryknoll  BRADY BUNCH FILM FESTIVAL only 2 days away  ATTENTION 2 CUTE ND ROOMMATES IN 141 ALUMNI, 2 SMC GIRLS ARE WONDERING IF YOU HAD FUN ON FRIDAY NIGHT-GIVE US A CALLI To our Wed. Night Ice cream dates,  
DENT BC TICKET. CALL 233·9660 ASK  Missioners  -a  contemporary,  profes­ Through all the talk, you're still the tops I  
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277-1015 DAY. Soon the Prophecies of the invasion of Israel and the Great Earthquake will be fu~illed (cf. Ezekiel 38, Daniel12). Form­ing a community, se~-sufficient in food and energy, to survive, God Willing, the coming dastruction. Wr~e: Michael, P.0. Box 4475, South Bend, Indiana 46634­4475  I NEED GAe FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-8306 NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· ETS TO ALABAMA ve. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814) 535-9490 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 286-4494 AFTER 5 PM. NEED 2 BC TICKETS. CALL KRIS X2800.  FOR EIOB OR PLEASE LEAVE MES­SAGE. BAMA TIXS Can guarantee $30 min Call Paul 1424 Need: B.C. TIX (GA or Studs) Call Nick at 3214 I NEED 2 B.C GA'S CALL ERIN X4208  sional Roman Catholic response to the people and problems of the 2oth and 21 st Centuries. CALL: Father Skip Flynn (312) 787-8496 LAST CHANCEl Limited •pace ..maine on Notre Dame Winter Ski  TO ALL THOSE WE PARTIED WITH ON HALLOWEEN: BODYCAST, BODYCAST, BODYCAST. THE VER­SATILE WOMEN IN WHITE. REM Nov 5 UIC Pavillion (Chicago) I have 2 tickets to sell If you have a ride. Yes, I HAD sold them but they're on sale again. Dave x1304  Love Betsy and Amy Alex, We gave at the office? Nice line. Did I finally get your attention?? Amy I may have gotten dirty but I just wanted to let you know that It washes off.  
I LOST/FOUND I  NEED BOSTON COLL. GA TIXI Will pay big bucks. Call Joe alter 6pm at 287-4561 HELP HELP HELP HELP NEED MANY BC TX STUD AND GA CALL TONY 2067  I DESPERATELY NEED 2 BAMA GA. WILL SPEND BIG $$$. CALL JOHN 1076. DESPERATELY NEED TWO BC STUD TIX OR GA'S. CALL TODD AT 2937.  Breakato Steamboat, Vall, Winter Park and B,.ckenrldge lor five or aevan nlghta deluxe lodging, lift tickets, mounteln barbecue, akl r•ce and more from only $154. Optional air and ch•rter bua tran•portellon available. Hunry, call SunchaH Tou.. toll lree lor lull detalla and color brochure, 1·  HAPPY BIRTHDAY ROB N.l Love your Badin Beaties Greg N. HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY! And yes you are unusual! KM  Alex & Tim of Keenan:Are you interested or not? If so,call again. T&M. ATTENTION:  
LOST -Gold  Cross  and  Chain  NEED B.C. STUDENT TICKETS CALL VA:z. AT 271·0579 PAY BIG$$$  I NEED YOUR BC student tixlll Call Bob at 1441 or 1352.  800-321·5911 TODAYI  £43 who plays football on Tuesdays on the quad in front of South Dining Hall  Doug, John, Lee and friends, Jim McMahon, Jeff & Jeff (Bookends), Mike,  
Sentimental 2327  Value  -·Please  call  Doug  NEED BC TIX. CALL 272-8282. $$$$$.  I NEED 3 GA'S FOR BC. CALL 284·5626  NEED BC TIX-CALL KATHY 264-5531  WHAT'S YOUR here.  NAME?! Please reply  Cheesehead, Jeff "hamburger" Nels, Mr."Perlection" T-shirt,  Otto, Don  
OR 272-1988  "farthest thing from a priest" and all others  
Lost: CLASS RING WITH DARK BLUE STONE REWARD--PLEASE CALL 271­0480  Need 4 Boston C.·ND tix. GA or Std. Pairs preferred. Good bucks. Call 233· 2651.  NEED B.C. STUDENT AND G.A. TIX I PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 2464.  CILA invites you to a general meeting for the Summer Program In Mexico Wed­nesday, Nov. 4, at 7:30 p.m. in the CSC  Dear John J. How does the cliche go? When you least expect It, expect It? Kris­tin & Paula  from Sal. night not mentioned due to brain leak....... We would /Ike to Invite you to a UHAH  
Call Mike at x1 049 or Dan at 271-0804  Reunion PARTY!!  
Lost ·dark blue backpack either In Fitzpatrick or LaFortune. Contains book on Harry Truman and an address book. Reward nfound. Contact Evan at x5699 during day. I found a swatch ow two gold rings on South Quad. If they are yours, call me at 3722.  BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDS! Call John 271·0939 NEED B.C.,BAMA TIX-CHRIS 1609 DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. G.A.s call £1852, ask for Bryan. Will pay $$$.  NEED BC TIX ··GA OR STUD. GREG x3070 Need 1 B.C. GA will pay top dollar. ask for Rob at 234-71681 Need 4 GAs for Alabama for my brother, his wife and 2 children. Willing to pay a reas~·nable amount over cost. 284-5666  for details CLASS OF 88 SENIOR BARN BASH Diamond D Ranch $8 tickets sold MTW Senior Class office (NO) LeMans lobby (SMC) Transporta­tion provided 21 ID REQUIRED  To the tall, blond, good looking, star­gazing, biking bass in Glee Club, HAPPY 19th B·DAYI Give me a call if you want to do anything fun, and spontaneous (like running through a golf course maybe?)  If Interested please call 284-4300 and /eave a message for either: Marla Todl or Ka,. Zlllo... YOU WORE A RUSSIAN FLAG AND A SHIRT FROM IRELAND. I LIKED YOUR  
I NEED ABC STUDENT OR GA TICKET  WANTED: One tiger, answering to the  SHIRT. SO, DID YOU PLAY SOCCER  
Lost: Swatch watch and two rings -one pea~ and one opal. Please give me a  FOR A MEMBER OF TED KENNEDY'S STAFF CALL STEVE X1654  I need Alabama GA's and stud tix. x1118 Ken.  The Pasadena Palace  name HOBBES and apparently called awesome on Halloween night. Was this  IN IRELAND? REPLY HERE. THE GIRL IN THE N.D. SWEATSHIRT IN THE  
call nthey turn up. Char X4084  at Campus View? Please call or at least  LOBBY.  
NEED BC OR 'BAMA TIX. CALL 303­ NEED 4 BC GA's MATT 287·9770  write. Love CALVIN  
LOST: On October 29 I lost a watch with  279-01185.  
a black leather strap and a gold face liomewhere between Pasquerilla East and Cartier Field. If you have found ij, PLEASE call Ellzaibeth at 4281. II you took my Levi's jean jacket (M. C.  FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT NEEDS 4 B.C. GA'S REACH HIM CO MATT 283­3549  I NEED ONE BC GA FOR DOMER DAD I PLEASE CALL MAURINE AT 2604 NEED BAMA GA'S BAD $$$ $$$ CALL JIM :!83·3869 $  Featuring Music, Ladles Night Live Stereo Riders needed to WASH. D.C. to share costs and company lor weekend of Nov. 7. Call Rich x1765.  Quote of the Day What did you do wrong? "I don't know, but It hurtl" Phil Martin  MAGGIE YOU SHAKESPEAR GODDESS HOW DOES IT FEEL TO BE 22 AND  
Kraft laibellnaida) from Far-~y's U2 bus, call1891 to trada ij for your CS&CO jean jacket.  BC student or GA ticket needed, call Dave x1589  •••••••••••••••••••••••••....... I NEED TWCI BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S PHONE  ................................................................ HELP MEl I NEED ONE BC TICKET. CALL ALLISON AT 1340.  OVER THE HILL? YOUR LOVING RE­LATION I P.S. SOMEONE WANTS TO KNOW IF YOU WISH YOU WERE AS  
STEVE  AT  211&-6706  Hey Physics Chicks  TALL  IN  INCHES  AS  YOU  ARE  IN  
BOSTON COLLEGE NEED 2 BC GA'S  I am one of the !Ickiest people to be able  YEARS II!  
FOR RENT  CALL JEFF £1453 TRADE 2 BAMA STU TIX FOR 2 BC  to sit behind such gorgous left handed Domettes that love blue-greenll You make physics so much fun.  
Lease this 2BR apartment now for spring semester and move in anytime. $325otno. Includes utilities. Call 232·9239. Now showing for IY1AIB-&'1A39 lease. BBR, 2 bath house on bus line. Call 232· 9239.  ANDY 239·5807 WANTED: I NO v• ALABAMA TICK· ETS, TOP DOLLAR PAID. CALL BOB AT 293-5821 FROM 11-5 PM. Did your parents lose money In the stock market? Mine didn't so they have LOTS ol CASH for ANY BC TICKETS! Call MIKE at 4245  ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKET AND B.C. GA FOR SALE BOSTON TO SOUTH BEND NOV.5-NOV.9 (B.C. WEEKEND) CALL TOM X1160 Desparately need two G.A. tickets for Boston College game. Call Katie 284­43651 WANTED: 2.4 or 6 BC G.A.'s Big Money. Call Frank X2161  BORIN HALL'S 88th ANNUAL TALENT SHOW FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8th AT 8:30PM ON THE FRONT STEPS OF BORIN COLLEGE  Thank you St Anthony To Little Maggie: We dldln't really forget your birthday We just forget to put It here! Happy Birthday! The Dinner Club  TARA The future paralegal I've never met anyone like youl I can't eat I can't sleep I won't give up. Please give me a chance THE FUTURE LAWYER Tony Lawton don't you have a phone call to make?  
WANTED  I need 3 BAMA tickets! Will pay big bucks. Astrella 271-9438  Friend up from Indy. I need one BC ticket Call Char X4064.  Desperately need 2 BC tix and 3 'Barna tlx, student or GA. Kevin 1885  
I need  2 BC tickets!  Student or GA.  TOM WURZER  
- NEED BC STUDENT TIX !CALL DIANE 413214128 PAINTER WANTED: NEAT PAINTER WANTED TO PAINT CLOSETS, ETC. IN MY HOME. YOU CAN CHOOSE YOUR OWN HOURS. I HAVE APPROX. 40e HOURS OF WORK. PAYING $4.001-iR. CALL 282-1935, AFTER 6:30 PM. 1···-····--·f()·R--s;L-e-············ For S.le -2 United Alrlln• round-trip tlckele to •nywhere In the contlrwntel U.S. 1200 M or beet offer. C•ll Tree. • 277-1773. 1 ROUND TRIP O'HARE-FT. LAUDER­DALE DEPART·! 11.25 RETURN· I 11.29 $300 3459 ai~ine tix to MIAMI FL from Ohare  Please call Astrella 271-9438 I NEED 2 'BAMA TIXI $$$ NO OPTION. CALL TED 287-5541 NEED ALABAMA TIX BAD X3137 WILL BEAT ANY OFFER ON STUDENT TICKETS FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL CHRISTY 3829 I DESPERATELY NEED 6 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SHANNON x2519. I NEED 'BAMA STUD TIX. CALL DOC 3347..S ATTENTION:AIR FORCE INTERESTS There are two AIR FORCE PILOTS (Worthsmijh AFB) coming to talk to us about their experiences and future career. They ask for two Boston College GA's TIXS, TOOl PLEASE HELP THE  Need 6 Boston College Tickets. Ask for Mlk•s Clark 272·3783 Help! Need B.C. GA's for lonely parents BIG $1 Call Fred 288-2032 I HAVE 12 BAMA GA TICKETS FOR SALE. MAKE ME AN OFFER I CAN'T REFUSE CALL 291-7849 B.C. GA'a FOR SALE 282-2977 1 BC STUD TIX, 1 BAMA STUD TIX $30 A PC. X4333 I will trade a BAMA stud for a BC stud I will buy 2 BC GAs. Please call Brian at x1000 WILL TRADE 2 BC GA'S FOR 2 ALA· BAMA TICKETS CALL 2734 ................................................................ TRADE 1 B.C. G.A. lor 1 BAMA G.A. Calli LORI···2516  What a deal! NO student has new and used furniture to sell cheap. Coffee table End table Computer desk Card table Folding chairs Desk Lamp Call Cathy at 287-9338 Some people Improve the world just by baing In It--•this Is you KARIN POEHL­INGIIIII HAPPY 20th to Alaska's bast tour guldelll Love, Jan 3 ALASKANS  If you need $$$ to make a trip down to the Bloomington area, I need a ride to ancltlr from Indiana Universijy. Call Brian at 3625. I need ride this weekend. SAILING CLUB MEETING 8:30 tonight In 204 O'Sheg KELLY O'BRIEN -SMC -WILL BE 20 TOMORROW! I decided that It wasn't worth the money to send a personal to the lmmalure little SMIC b----who left me waiting at the bus stop Monday night. I'd much rather send one to you, LIZA, MO, AMY, MEG, and HEIDI. Friends like you are worth more than anything money can buy.  Oh, Does she know Does she know Does she know Does she know? NO ... but she'd like toll What the HELL happened? TIM I thought of buying you a new bathrobe for your birthday, but you looked too cute In the old onel HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY! Love Carrie HELP-Rich brother coming to see Ala­bama game-He'll pay BIG MONEY for GA or stu.ticket-Piease sell him your ex­tra one-call Katy 271-0924 We are victims of the party! Jill Terry, I'm soorrry lor ripping your skirt! Does this mean I can't wear your clothes  
onaway 111.24 $100 and ride back tom 2016 SNOW TIRES ... Never used. Fit VW Bug, and probably many other compact cars. Call 277·5719 and leave meuage.  PILOTS. They will pay $$$ If Interested In AIR FORCE, you can talk to them. PLEASE SELL ME TIXS than I'll tell you when ijs about PLEASE CALL ME X3276 AIM HIGH!  ......... Need Alabama GA's or Stud Call John at 2236 ................................................................ Need 2 BC GA'S Call Erin 2732  are coming down for ALABAMA and they need TICKETSIII GA or student Call JAN X2776  Dr. Whoopie has come to NDI Gettin' a little hot, want to be safe? Well, call Dr. Whoopla for quick delivery of needed protection. Call 2921 or 4644. Think safe sex.  anymore? Begging Forgiveness -Mark. Balloons, cake, and a BELLY DANCER?I YOU GOT TO BE KIDDINGIll Thanks a lot, nwas a great b-day.  

--~------.....-----~-~--­
November 4, 1987 The Observer page 11 
Sports Wednesday_ 
Sports Lists AP Top 20 
AP Top Twenty

Enormous Endorsements The Top Twenty college football teams In The Associated Press poll, with flrst-placa votes in paren­
What Six Athletes Earned From 
theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20·19· 1 8·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents
Product Endorsements Per Week* 
• in 1986 Source: Business Week 
Scoreboard 
Reeulte lor Oct. 28 through Nov. 3 
Football Notre Dame over Navy, 56·13 
Volley bell Purdue over Notre Dame, 15-10, 14-16,15-2, 15-4 
Notre Dame over Illinois-Chicago, 1 5·6, 15·9, 8·15, 15·1 Western Michigan over Notre Dame, 13·15, 15-7, 15·7, 15·6 
Soccer Men San Diego State 1 , Notre Dame 0 
Volleyball Top 10 
NCAA Mldweat Regional Volleyball Poll 
1 Nebraska 23·1 2. Illinois 21·3 
3. Western Michigan 17-S 4 Pittsburgh 30·2 
5 Northwestern 21·4 e. Purdue 17·10 
7. Penn Stale 20·6 6. Oklahoma 19·7 
9. Notre Deme 20-7 10. Northern Iowa 27·3 
are Italicized. 

1. Oklahoma (38) 8-Q-0 1173 2. Nebraska (15) 8·0·0 1137 
3. Miami, Fla. 6-D·O 1108 
4. Florida State 7-1·0 987 5. LSU 7·0·1 943 6. Auburn 7-Q-1 906 7. UCLA 7-1-0 835 8. Syracuse 8·0·0 798 9. Notre Dame 6-1.0 751 
10. Clemson 7-1-0 599 tie Georgia 6-2·0 599 12. Oklahoma State 7-1-0 437 13. Alabama 6·2-Q 393 tie So. Carolina 6·2·0 393 15. Michigan State 5·2·1 386 16. Penn State 6·2·0 309 17. Florida 5-3·0 229 18. Indiana 6·2·0 224 19. Tennessee 5·2·1 90 20. Texas A&M 6·2·0 84 
Also receiving votes: Arkansas 57, Ohio State 44, Iowa 30, So. Gal/lorn/a 26, Wyoming 21, Arizona State 13, San Jose State 9, Eastern Michigan 6, Michigan 4, Texas 4, Boston College 2. Pitt 2, No. Carolina 1. 

Soccer Top 20 
UCLA 3, Notre Dame 2 ao of October 28 
Saint Mary's 4, IU·South Bend 0 The Top 20 college team a In the Soccer America
Siena Heights 2, Saint Mary's 0 
Magazine poll compiled by its editorial staff, with this season's records. Notre Dame's opponents are
Croee Country 
Italicized. 

Women 1. So. Carolina 13·1·2 DePaul 46, Notre Dame 54, Marquette 56, 2. Indiana 15·2·0 Dayton 57 3. Virginia 14-1-2 
4. Duke 12·3·1 5. Harvard 9-0-2
Field Hockey 
6. SMU 10·3·1
SW Missouri State 2, Notre Dame 0 
7. Rutgers 13·2·2
So. Illinois-Carbondale 1, Notre Dame 0 
B. UNLV 11·3 
9. Notre Dame 14-1·1 
Hockey 10. Clemson 12·3·1 Notre Dame 5, Windsor 4 (OT) 11. Columbia 7-2·2 Windsor 9, Notre Dame 6 
12. San Dlago State 14·3·0 13. Yale 7-2·0 
Big Ten Standings 

Eaat  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Washrngton  6  1  0  .857  177 108  
Dallas  4  3  0  .571  168 158  
Phrladelphre  3  4  0  ~429  151 186  
51. lours  2  5  0  .286  151 180  
N.Y. Grants  1  6  0  .143  99  142  

Central 
Chicago 6 1 0 .857 t91 105 Tampa Bay 4 3 0 .571 164 128 Green Bay 3 3 1 .500 123 138 Mrnnesota 3 4 0 429 139 160 Detrorl 6 0 .143 119 213 
Weot 
San Francraco 6 1 0 .857 199 154 New Orleans 4 3 0 .571 180 123 Atlanta 2 5 0 .286 117 216 LA Rams 1 6 0 .143 120 184 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Eeot 
w L T Pet. PF PA lndranapolrs 4 3 0 .571 140 103 New England 4 3 0 .571 139 151 Buffalo 3 0 .429 122 183 M1am1 3 4 0 .429 203 157 
N.Y. Jets 3 4 0 .429 165 163 CentroI 
Houston 5 2 0 .714 180 153 Cleveland 4 3 0 .571 173 107 Pittsburgh 4 3 0 .571 157 156 Cincinnati 2 5 0 .286 124 156 
San Diego  6  1  0  .857  
Seattle  5  2  0  .714  
Denver  4  2  1  .643  
L.A. Raiders  3  4  0  .429  
Kansas City  1  6  0  .143  

Sunday's Results Houston 31, Cincinnati 29 Indianapolis 19, N.Y. Jels 14 Chicago 31, Kansas City 28 New England 26, L.A. Raiders 23 New Orleans 38, Atlanta 0 Phrladelphia 28, St. Louis 23 Miami 35, Pittsburgh 24 Tampa Bay 23, Green Bay 17 Washington 27, Buffalo 7 San Diego 27, Cleveland 24 (OT) Denver 34, Detroit 0 Seattle 28, Minnesota 17 San Francisco 31, L.A. Rams 10 
Monday Nlght'o Raoul! Dallas 33, N.Y. Giants 24 
Sunday's Games Atlanta at Cleveland Chicago al Green Bay Dallas al Detroit Denver al Buffalo 
L.A. Raiders at Minnesota Pittsburgh at Kansas City San Diego al Indianapolis Tampa Bay at St. Louis Washington al Philadelphia Houston at San Francisco Mramr at Cincinnati New Orleans at L.A. Rams New England at N.Y. Giants 
Monday Nlght'o Game Seattle at N.Y. Jets WALES CONFERENCE

Big Ten Standing• The Big Ten college football conference standings, through games played October 31. The-conference Adama Dlvlalon records and total season records are given. w L T GF 
1. 
Michrgan Slate 4·0·1 5-2-1 Montreal 8 4 2 57 

2. 
Indiana 4· 1-0 5·2· 1 Quebec 6 5 1 47 

3. 
Iowa 3·2·0 6·3·0 Buffalo 5 4 3 45 

4. 
Michigan 3·2·0 5·3·0 Boston 5 5 1 31 

5. 
Ohio State 3-2·0 5·2·1 Hartford 5 5 36 6. Illinois 2·2·1 3-4-1 7. Minnesota 2·3·0 5·3·0 8. Purdue 2·3·0 2·5·1 9. Northwestern 1·4·0 1·6·1 


Patrick Division 10. Wisconsin 0·5·0 2-6-Q 
N.Y. Islanders 8 3 1 56 
Washington  7  4  1  45  
New Jersey  7  4  0  42  
N.Y. Rangers  4  6  3  54  
Pittsburgh  4  6  3  50  

160 194 184 149 117  128 135 139 138 232  Philadelphia 7 2 32 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Edmonton Winnepeg Calgary  Smythe Division w L T 7 5 0 6 4 0 5 5  GF 56 35 44  
Irish Volleyball  

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Volleyball vs. WESTERN MICHIGAN Soccer vs. VALPARAISO 
Thursday Volleyball at Dayton 
Friday Soccer vs. MARQUETIE Hockey at Kent State Field Hockey at Midwest Regionals 
Saturday Football vs. BOSTON COLLEGE Volleyball vs. LOUISVILLE Hockey at Kent State Field Hockey at Midwest Regional 
Sunday Soccer vs. OHIO STATE Wrestling at Michigan State 
Invitational 
Monday Women's Tennis at Rolex Regional 
Tuesday Women's Tennis at Rolex Regional 
14. No. Carolina 12·4-0 
15. UCLA 10-4-1 
16. William & Mary 13·2·2 17. Connecticut 11-4-3 18. Evansville 12·6·0 
19. Seton Hall 9·3·3 20. Loyola,Md 11·3·2 
Greet lakeo Region Coocheo' Poll 1. Indiana 17·2·0 50 2. Akron 1 0·5·3 43 3. Evansville 13·7·0 39 4. Notra Dame 14·3-1 38 5. Bowling Green 11·5·0 30 6. Wisconsin 13·7·1 23 7. Wis.·MIIwaukee 10-8-1 19 8. Wis.-Green Bay 14·6·2 19 9. Michigan State 8·8·0 7 
10. Wright State 1 0-6·2 
los Angeles 3 8 28 49 7 Vancouver 2 8 38 49 5 
GA Pta. Norris Dtvlolon
44  18  
43  13  
45 43 41  13 11 11  Toronto Detroit Chicago  6 5 5  4 4 6  0 2 1  46 35 51  42 35 53  12 12 11  
Minnesota  4  5  3  39  42  11  
St. Louis  3  7  1  35  42  7  
Tueaday'a Results  
35  17  
35  15  
36  14  Quebec 4, St. Louis 3  
54  11  Pittsburgh 5, Philadelphia 1  
51  11  Washington 3, Vancouver 2  
50  10  Minnesota 2, Detroit 2  
N.Y. Islanders 6, New Jersey 3  
N.Y. Rangers at Calgary, late  

Wednesday•• Gamel 

Boston at Hartford Winnepeg at Toronto 
GA Pto Detroit at Minnesota 47 14 Montreal at Chicago 32 12 N.Y. Rangers at Edmonton 44 11 Buffalo at los Angeles 
lnterhall Football 
MEN'S CONF!RENCE Rockne Dlvlolon 

w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Pangborn  3  0  1  .875  77  13  
Fisher  3  0  1  .875  48  7  
Sorln  2  2  0  .500  28  18  
Carroll  1  3  0  .250  6  58  
St. Ed's  0  4  0  .000  12  66  
Laehy Dlvl olon  
Stanford  4  0  01.000  102  6  
Alumni  3  1  0  .750  50  21  
Cavanaugh  0  2  2  .250  0  28  
Holy Cross  0  2  2  .250  0  61  
Zahm  0  2  2  .250  0  36  
Pareeghl.ln Olvlalon  
Dillon  4  1  0  .800  55  14  
Flanner  2  1  2  .800  42  20  
Graca  2  2  1  .500  27  40  
Off-Campus  1  1  3  .500  25  40  
Morrissey  1  2  2  .400  20  27  
Keenan  1  4  0  .200  22  50  

Sunday'• Ouon.rllnal Reaulta 
Fisher 8, Alumni 0 
Dillon 3, Flenner 0 
Sunday's Semifinal Games Dillon vs. Pangborn (1 p.m.) Stanford vs. Fisher (2:30 p.m.) 
WOMEN'S CONFERENCE 

Pasquerllla Was 7 1 0 .875 136 54 Breen-Phllllps 7 1 0 .875 146 92 Lyons 6 2 0 .750 113 30 Farley 6 2 0 .750 122 36 Lewis 4 4 0 .500 64 82 
Pasquerilla Eas 2 5 0 .266 66 72 
Walsh 1 6 0 .143 26 136 
Badin 1 7 0 .125 20 125 
Howard 1 7 0 .125 26 120 
Laot Thurodoy'o Reoulto Pasquerllla West 14, Lewis 0 Lyons 20, Pasquerllla East 8 
Sunday'o Reoutto Breen-Phillips 20, Badin 14 Farley 20, Walsh 0 Pasquerllla West 22, Howard 6 Lewis 6, Pasquerlila East 0 (forfeit) 
Sunday'o Semifinal Gomeo Pasquerllla West va. Farley (1 p.m.) Breen-Phillips vs. Lyons (2:1 5 p.m.) 
NBA Preseason 
Eaotern Conference 
Atlantic Dtvlalon 

w L Pet. GB Boston 7 1 .875 N.Y. Knicks 5 3 .625 2 Philadelphia 2 5 .286 4~5 Washington 2 5 .286 4.5 New Jersey 1 7 .125 6 Centro! Dlvlolon 
Atlanta 5 2 .714 Chicago 4 4 .500 1.5 Indiana 4 4 .500 1.5 Milwaukee 3 3 .500 1.5 Cleveland 3 4 .429 2 Detroit 3 5 .375 2.5 
Weatem Conforenca 
Mldweot Dtvlolon 

w L Pet. GB Denver 5 3 .625 Utah 5 3 .625 Sacramento 4 3 .571 .5 
Dallas 3 4 .429 1.5 San Antonio 3 4 .429 1.5 Houston 3 4 .429 1.5 Pacific Dtvlolon 
L.A. Lakers 7 0 1.000 Seattle 7 1 .875 .5 Pheonix 3 4 .429 4 Portland 3 5 .375 4.5 L.A. Clippars 2 6 .250 5.5 Golden State 1 6 .143 6 
PLAYER GP KILLS AVG E TA PCT AST AVG ACES AVG DIGS AVG BS BA AVG Zanette Bennett 99 385 3.89 115 872 .310 11 0.11 33 0.33 261 2.64 35 79 1.15 Kathy Cunningham 69 237 3.43 90 595 .247 8 0.12 22 0.32 217 3.14 3 31 0.49 Maureen Shea 100 306 3.06 90 745 .290 43 0.43 24 0.24 219 2.19 21 87 1.08 Mary Kay Waller 65 187 2.88 61 437 .288 3 0.05 10 0.15 113 1.74 26 85 1.71 Colleen Wagner 33 65 1.97 45 189 .106 0 0.00 11 0.33 82 2.48 2 12 0.42 Kathy Baker 67 122 1.82 49 365 .200 9 0.13 10 0.15 158 2.36 1 28 0.43 Whitney Shewman 31 36 1 '16 14 137 .161 0 0.00 5 0.16 79 2.55 2 3 0.16 Gretchen Kraus 38 43 1.13 16 123 .220 5 0.13 5 0.13 43 1 '13 4 22 0.68 Rachel Hall 20 18 0.90 13 48 .104 1 0.05 2 0.10 19 0.95 8 14 1 '10 Taryn Collins 87 61 0.70 13 186 .258 101311.64 25 0.29 294 3.38 7 43 0.57 Kathleen Morin 20 10 0.50 2 29 .276 157 7.85 3 0.15 24 1.20 1 8 0.45 Amy White 53 17 0.32 18 88 -.011 25 0.47 9 0.17 81 1.53 3 23 0.49 Jill Suglich 44 0 o.oo 3 7 -.429 2 0.05 7 0.16 71 1.61 0 0 0.00 NOTRE DAME 101 1487 14.72 529 3821 .251 127712.74 166 1.64 1661 16.45 113 435 3.27 OPPONENTS 101 1408 13.94 611 4023 .198 1200 11.88 164 1.62 1787 17.69 75 307 2.26 
; 
SObering Advice·.= 

I
-~

~· 
can save alife \ 
WEDNESDAY'S SPECIAL 
/. 

·.4 . 
.. 
Think BefOre You Drink 
90 CENT MOLSON'S 
Before You Drive 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


page 12 The Observer Wednesday, November 4, 1987 
Irish tailback 
Brooks' past keyslrishfuture 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Sports Writer 
The book says that a fresh­. man will have troubles adjust­
ing to major college football be­
cause he will not have faced 
any kind of competition in high 
school that approaches the col­
lege level. 
Somebody ought to explain 
that to Notre Dame freshman 
tailback Tony Brooks. 
As the captain at Booker T. 
Washington High School in 
Tulsa, Okla., Brooks led his 
team to two state champion­
ships despite going up against 
opponents now suiting up for 
teams like Oklahoma, Okla­
homa State, Georgia and 
Texas. 
"There were Division I 
players coming out of every 
school," says Brooks. "Ath­
letes like Steve Largent, Drew 
Pearson and Wayman Tisdale 
came out of that area. 
"My school was academi­
cally one of the top 150 in the 
nation, and the football pro­
gram had four losses in the four 
years I was there." 
But while Tulsa may have 
been a football haven for col­
lege scouts, it had its bad 
aspects as well. This darker 
side of his hometown contrib­
uted in Brooks' decision to 
come to Notre Dame instead of 
joining some of his friends at 
Oklahoma. 
"My mom and dad liked 
Coach (Lou) Holtz, and my dad 
liked the history and tradition, 
and he thought I could come 
here and be a better person and 
be around the right environ-
Lyght 
continued from page 16 
tributing nine tackles in the contest. 
Beyond these four, several freshmen have made their presence felt for the 6-1 Irish. One sign of this was obvious Saturday. Despite the blowout, fans remained attentive as Notre Dame's second and third teams displayed their many talents and kept up a high quality of play -a promising sign that more seasons like this one are on their way. 
Tony Rice again came away from an Irish win with an in­jury, this week in the form of a bruised leg, making him questionable for Saturday's matchup with Boston College. In his Tuesday press confer­ence Holtz said if Rice could not start the game, Kent Graham would get the nod, joining Rice and Terry An­dysiak as the third Irish quar­terback to start a game this fall. 
Holtz also maintained that Rice is the number-one quar­terback and will remain that way. Platooning Rice and Graham is only a result of what the Irish need in the situation they face, not a concerted ef­fort on Holtz' part to break in both young quarterbacks. 
"They one thing I want to make clear," said Holtz, "is that I'm not interested in giving anybody work on game day. We're interested in winning the game. Period. We develop people in practice. But when we ment," Brooks says. "I'd been 
around the exact opposite for 
much of my life. 
"Notre Dame's a really reli­gious place, not strict but you have lots of restrictions, and it's pretty quiet and not too fast. There are not many run­ins with drugs and gangs. Where I come from you see a lot of that," continues Brooks. "It's the kind of atmosphere you can get caught up in. I saw a lot of Division I caliber players not going to college or going to junior colleges. I said from my sophomore year that I'd get to my books so when the time came, I wouldn't say 'I should have' or 'I could have." 
Instead, he has been able to . make a substantial conltribu­tion to the Irish backfield as a freshman, highlighted by .an 82­yard rushing performance on 12 carries last Saturday against Navy. Running back coach Jim Strong says that is partially because he used some of the more beneficial re­sources of his hometown.. 

"Tony came out of an excel­lent high school program," says Strong. "I know his high school coach, Larry McGee, and he was very well coached at the high school level. His team has three or four major college players every year, and they run their high school pro­gram like a college program." 
Of course, Brooks has found he has needed to make adjust­ments to be successful at the college level. 
"The intensity and the pace of the game were the biggest things," says Brooks. "In high 
Maryknoll 
People workin1~ around the world with people. 
Brothers, Sisters, Priests, serve in 27 countries around the world. 

school, you could play well for a few downs and then coast. Here you have to play every down like it's your last down. Granted, some players have the ability to coast, but those who play with desire every down are the ones who set themselves apart. Tim Brown's that type of player." 
Although he has not started, Brooks has seen action in every game except for the loss to Pit­tsburgh, which he missed with an injured ankle. In Holtz' mul­tiple back system, Brooks has been able to share time with junior Mark Green and class­mate Ricky Watters at tail­back. As the biggest and most physical of these three tail­backs, he also replaced an in­jured Braxston Banks at ful­lback ag~inst Michigan State. 
Brooks has realized what he needs to learn as a college player, and as far as he is con­cerned, he is learning from the best. 
"My practice habits are bet­ter, I have a more serious atti­tude toward the game, and I have improved my speed," says Brooks. "I think we could go all the way and be national champions if we listen to Coach Holtz. The man knows every­thing, everything he says is right. He knows the game." 
If the Irish do come on to win the national title, it could very well mean Brooks would be spending New Year's Day in Miami facing the school back in his home state that he chose not to attend. 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 
MORRIS CIVIC 
AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT 
E CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
BOX OFFICE, 
NIGHTWINDS {NILES 
NORTH VILLAGE 
MALL). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART) 
AND J.R.'S 
(LAPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219-284-9190 
CD COUPON 
$2.00 OFF 
ALL DISCS 
EXPIRES 11-30-87 PRICED $15.99 AND UP EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS 

CD COUPON LP /TAPE COUPON 
CLASSICAL 
$1.00 OFF
& JAZZ 
ALL LP /TAPES

$4.00 OFF EXPIRES 11-30-87 
·:

ALL DISCS PRICED $6.99 UP EXPIRES 11-30-87 EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS .• PRICED $16.99 
SEE WHY TRACKS IS THE AREA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE. ..OVER 30,000 CDS I LPS I TAPES!!! 
;~ff::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:: 
~l!i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::il 
~m  MAXELL • • • II TEN PACK BLOW-OUT II • • • TOK  ~\~\  
~~~XL 1190  11TH TAPE FREEl  $19.99 SA90  WITH FREE CASE t  
~ljl XLIIS90  11TH TAPE FREEl  $23.99 SAX90  WITH FREE CASE ii;i  

:· ·: 

get on game day Saturday, we're not interested in giving 
MARYKNOLL, 

TRACKSanybody work or keeping 
NEW YORK 10545

anybody happy. All we want to 
do is win." 

The Saint Mary's soccer team wrapped up Its season with a victory over IUSB and a loss to 
SMC soccer season ends at 6-8-2 
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer The Saint Mary's soccer team finished its season last weekend with a final record of  came up with the ball at mid­field and beat the defender to score the first goal on the breakaway. It wasn't long before the Belles struck again, as Amy  for the year. As Parent's Weekend wound down and the season ap­proached its end, the Belles lost to Sienna Heights Sunday, 2-0. "I felt good about our soccer  
6-8-2.  Ross scored from the middle  progress  as  a  team,  even  
Hosting Soccer Parent's Weekend, the Belles started out  on a pass from Landry Cle­ment.  though our won-loss record didn't show it," said coach Tom  
with an impressive 4-0 victory Friday over Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend. The Belles came out strong, putting their first goal in the net only five minutes into the game. Freshman Tricia Troester  The first half ended with still another goal by Belles' forward Marcie Gaus. In the second half the Belles relied mostly on their defense, including the strong goaltend­ing of senior Patty Hatfield, who registered another shutout  Van Meter. Overall Van Meter was pleased with his first year coaching the Belles and looks forward to next year. "My goal now is to start to build for next year," said Van Meter.  

Wednesday, November 4, 1987 The Observer 
page 13 

Brown, Rice battle injuries 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
All-America flanker Tim Brown and starting quarter-. back Tony Rice are among a large group of Notre Dame players who have missed prac­tice so far this week because of injuries suffered this past Sat­urday. 
Brown suffered a broken left ring finger when it got caught in a Navy defender's jersey early in the first quarter of a 56-13 Irish victory over the Mid­shipmen. He returned to pick up a total of 173 yards in the contest. 
Rice came away from the contest with a contusion in his leg. 
Others members of the team who have missed at least one day of practice this week in­clude defensive linemen Mike Griffin (back and ankle), Tom Gorman (gastronitis) and Ted FitzGerald (ankle). The Irish have not started the same de­fensive line since the third week of the season. 
Still out with injuries from earlier in the year are free safety Corny Southall (ligaments), split end Ray Dumas (knee), tail­back.fl.anker Alonzo Jefferson (ankle) and defensive lineman Bryan Flannery (back). 
"(The injury situation) is reaching a point where it's going to hurt us," Holtz said Tuesday morning. "I'm really concerned about it." 
Brown, Rice and many of the others probably will be able to play Saturday against Boston College, Holtz said. 
"There is a possibility Kent Graham will open up at quar­terback," Holtz added. "It's too early to make that deci­sion." 
Farley 
continued from page 16 
for a 25-yard touchdown pass 
to open the scoring. 
Farley's Tami Goodwin scored her third punt return touchdown of the season, covering 75 yards and account­ing for the final Farley points. 
In other action Sunday night, P.W. continued to show why it belongs at the top by crushing Howard 22-6. After a season­opening loss to Farley, P.W. ran off seven in a row to finish the season. 
Playoff action begins on Sun­day with semi-final games pairing P.W. and Farley at 1 
p.m. followed by B-P and Lyons at 2: 15 p.m. at Stepan fields. 
back Greg Gibbons tossed a 20­yard strike to his prolific­scoring flanker Pat Murphy for 
Defense 
continued from page 16 
the only score of the game. The 
extra point provided some ex­tough," understated Fisher citement, as Fisher's holder, coach Chris Carlson. "Our of­Steve Nytes, took a bad snap fense was set up by our from center and raced outside defense." for the two-point conversion. 
In fact, Fisher's lone score "It came down to who wanted was set up by an interception. it more," said Alumni coach Late in the second quarter, Mike Brcik. "We knew they with Alumni driving, Fisher wanted to beat us, and they cornerback AC Yenchko were really psyched up. We picked off a John Nieirs pass. took it as just another game, 
From there Fisher quarter-instead of a playoff game." 
You can do a lot more with your degree than juat get a job. Aa a Navy officer, you can le•d the adventure I 
• No experience neceesary 
• ALL majora coneidered 
Tod•y'a Navy 1• top-fli9ht people working with the beat in their field. It's dl&o aophiaticated technical and management train· inq in executive, managerial, professional, acientitic and technical poaitiona. 
You don't have to wait until you qraduatel 
Navy Officer repreaentativea will be on 
campua conductinq an exclusive teatinq 
aeaaion. All interested atudanta who are 
within l yeara of graduating are encouraqed 
to take advantage ot thia opportunity. 
TeatinCJ takea approximately l'l houra and 
aeat1 are limited. 
n4TE: November 6, 19.87 
[>~~~: Placement Office Conference Room 
Testing appointment may be obtained by calling ___:2:.:5:..:::6_-1::.:4:.;5:_=.5_____ 
FLIGHt OFFICER: 
Start af l21,200 ($35,000 after 4 year•J. 20/20 correctable viaion. Agee 19-26. Operate the electronics ' computers in the Navy's newest aircraft. 
BOSI~ESS MANAm: 
tart at ,200 ($35,000 attar 4 yeara). Finance, personnel, logistics.Agea 19-28. 
mmEER: 
Start at $23,500 ($45,000 after 4 yeara). Bonua when selected. Project management. Engineerinq/Science/Technical major. Agea 19-28. 
SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS: 
NAVA~o~~!f!l2~ ~~Rk 1 i-year or Conununity College that are undecided about continuing college may qualify for immediate Pilot training. Requirements; 60 semester hour8, 2. 5 GPA, ' paaa the aptitude test. Single/no dependenta. 
AVlA!!2~.~~~5§ 9 $ 1 ¥ttJ~i~g~~tiQ}Y~!:; Training at AOCS (Pensacola, FL) during Junior year summer break and upon completion of BS/BA degree. 



Student Travel Network would like to invite you to celebrate the New Year London-style; partying down the Thames River in a glass boat with other student travelers. There'll be music, plenty of doncing and some­one to guide you through the sights you'll be seeing as you sail along_Lon­don'scelebratedwaterway.Abuffet will be served; wine, beer and soft drinks are also free. All you have to do is purchase vour round-trip ticket to London from STN. Chicago fare 
fro~m389. STUDENT 
TRAVEL 
NEJWOIIK 
CHICAGO (312) 525•922 COME JOIN THE FUN-With STNI 


Wednesday, November 4, 1987
page 14 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 

The Sailing Club placed third overll out of nine teams this past weekend at the University of Toledo Regatta. Pete Wall placed third in the A division with crew Paige Cooper while Tom Sessions took third in the B division with Marc Miller crewing. This next weekend the team travels to the Area A elimination Regatta and hopes to qualify for the fall nationals. Tonight's meeting at 6:30p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy is for all members. -The Ob­server 
Joel Williams, former Notre Dame tight end, was waived by the Miami Dolphins. Williams, who saw action in four games for the Dolphins, was replaced on the roster by tight end David Lewis, a Miami replacement player. -The Observer 
Interhall football equipment return will be today at Gate 9 of the stadium for the following teams: Carroll-6 p.m., Cavanaugh-6:30 p.m., Grace-7 p.m., Holy Cross-7:30p.m., Keenan-8 p.m., Morrissey-8:30p.m., St. Eds-9 p.m., Sorin-9:30 p.m. Return times for the remaining halls will take place after the playoffs and will be announced shortly. There will be a $5 fee for any equipment returned aft•er each hall's designated date. -The Observer 
Water Polo team members must attend a mandatory meeting tomorrow at 5 p.m. in LaFor­tune's basement T.V. room. For further info, call Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Observer 
John Moir, college basketball player of the year for Notre Dame in 1936, has been nominated for election into the Basketball Hall of Fame. Indiana coach Bob Knight was also nominated. -Associated Press 
Tim Kempton, former Notre Dame and Los Angeles Clipper center, signed a one-year contract with Napoli of the Italian league. -Associated Press 
Soccer faces Valpo 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team left the West Coast with two losses against UCLA and San Diego State, but returned with the feeling that it can play with any squad in the nation. 
With that in mind, Head Coach Dennis Grace feels rela­tively confident heading into tonight's game with Val­paraiso, at 7:30 in Krause Stadium. 
Even if Notre Dame's all­time record against the Crusaders wasn't 17-0, and even if the Irish haven't out­scored V alpo 112-14 over the ten-year history of the series, Grace might still feel good about his team's chances. 
"We have an extremely pos­itive attitude coming out of Cal­ifornia," said Grace, in his fourth year as the Irish mentor. "Heck, early this year, both of those teams (UCLA and SDSU) were in the top five in the country. To lose both on penalty kicks like that was tough in a sense, but you'd have 
McGwire earns AL award 
Associated Press McGwire, the choice of all 28 
voters, is the second unani­
NEW YORK -Oakland first mous selection in the 40-year baseman Mark McGwire, history of the award. Carlton whose 49 home runs set a Fisk of the Boston Red Sox was major-league record for a first­the first, in 1972. year player, was unanimously McGwire earned 140 points to selected Rookie of the Year in 64 for the runnerup, third the American League, the baseman Kevin Seitzer of the Baseball Writers Association Kansas City Royals. Catcher of America announced Tues­Matt Nokes of the Detroit day. Tigers was third with 32 points. 
Thursday 9-1:00 
D.J.'s Ann Seifert Kris Murphy 
Friday 9-2:00 
to be blind not to see that we 
played them both down to the 
wire. The boys know that what 
they accomplished out there 
was pretty special. 
"Nobody hung their head after either game. If you had come into our locker room after we played UCLA, you would have thought, 'Holy mackerel, Notre Dame beat the Bruins'. I'm extremely pleased at the intensity with which we're playing. I was happier after this weekend than I haVE! been after a few wins this year. " 
Never one to look past an op­ponent, Grace expects the typ­ically scrappy Valparaiso team to come at the Irish, figuring that it has nothing to lose by pulling out all the stops against a team it has never beaten. 

"Every year, Valpo comes to play," said Grace. "They've been overmatched by us for the last few years, but their coach does a nice job with the pro­gram and we had better be ready to play. But I've got a feeling that we'll be ready to play." 

The Irish soccer team has built up Its confidence following a rough West Coast trip. Pete Skiko 
BRAINS 
BRAWN 
PLAY THE MOSTEXCITING 
TRIVIA COUNTDOWN & SHOWDOWN 
A panel of experts developed 
the ultimate fun trivia contest 
that pits your skill and knowledge against other players here in our place and players all across the 
country. 

For the first time in history, you can actually interact with live TV football games via 

satellitefieilmi 
Don Shula Hank Stram 81// Walsh Don Klosterman 
with other players here and nationally by anticipating live quarterback plays. 
Wednesday, November 4, 1987 The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
Wednesday 
9:00a.m. -5:00p.m.: University Libraries Book Sale, hardbound, $1; paper­back, 50 cents. Library Concourse. 
11:30 a.m.: Ladies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Luncheon and Panel Presenta­tion, "Dual-Career Relationships: Four Different Perspectives," speakers: Rebecca Marr, Peggy Carberry, Ann Power, Rebecca Stoddard. Guests welcome, Morris Inn. 
12:10 p.m. -1:00 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Experimental and Analytical Investigations of MHD Flows in Strong Magnetic Fields," by Prof. B. F. Picologlou, Argonne National Laboratory. Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 
4: 30 p.m. : Department of Chemistry Reilly Lecture, ''Azadienes in Carbo-and Heterocyclic Synthesis," by Prof. Leon Ghosez. Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30p.m.: Kenna Lectures in Mathematics, Lecture II, "Varieties and Cohomol­ogy Rings," by Prof. Jon F. Carlson. Second floor of the CCMB. 
6:30 p.m.: BACCHUS general meeting for all interested students. Ice cream 
will be served after the meeting. Basement of Walsh Hall. 7:30p.m.: Soccer ND vs. Valparaiso, Cartier Field. 7:30p.m.: Volleyball NDW vs. Eastern Michigan, JACC. 7:30p.m.-9:00p.m.: Faculty Conversations on Connections: Historical View 
of the Development of Science and Technology, sponsors: Sigma Xi; The Program in Science, Technology and Values; and Saint Mary's College. Students welcome, free. Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
8:00p.m.: Presentation-Reception for all MBA students interested in discover­ing career opportunities with Irving Trust Company, free. Upper Lounge, Uni­versity Club. 
11:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m.: Notre Dame Bridge Club meeting, all interested students welcome ree:ardless of experience. Basement of Alumni Hall. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Speidano Romano Turkey Cutlet with Parsely 
Sesame Baked Cod Sauce 
Veal Parmesan BBQ Beef 
Spaghetti & Meatballs Vegetarian Cheese Lasagna Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Tie 6 Shot metal 
10 Applause 14 Condition 15 Ahab's father 16 Ersatz butter 17 Insects 19 Talk wildly 20 After 
prlntemps 21 Joust 22 Sheriffs' 
groups 24 Layers 25 Hint 26 Errand 28 Parlor game 32 Wastelands 33 Stylish 34 -avis 35 Feedbag 
contents 36 Layered rock 37 President's 
office 38 To -(exactly) 39 Ooze 40 Appearance 41 Uncountable 
dollars 43 Get the soap 
out 44 Celebes ox 45 Wren e.g. 46 Show off 49 House In 
Hidalgo 50 Marble 53 Resound 54 Some racers 
collectively 57 Vow 58 Lake that 
sounds weird 59 Long suit 60 Goddess of 
discord 61 Society buds 62 De Valera 
DOWN 1 Wimbledon 
champ 2 Try 3 Concem 

© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 11/04/87All Rights Reserved 
4 Goddess of 
harvest 5 Vacillates 6 Lounges 7 Give off 8 "Where -the 
clowns?" 9 Supplant 10 Play practical 
jokes 11 Woe Is mel 12 Granular snow 13 Performs 18 Amerce 23 "-Town" 24 Guffaws 25 Where 
Antofagasta 


Is 26 Raccoon's 32 Dead Sea city 
cousin 33 Dinnerware 27 Residence 36 Sanded 28 Bums 40 Camelopard 29 Confederate 42 Hostelry 
president 43 Incline 30 Expunge 45 Foundations 31 Store event 46 Splitting tool 
11104187 
47 Prevaricator 48 Against 49 Baby's place 50 Sentence 51 Concerning 52 Whereas 55 lda.'a neighbor 56 Mauna ­

Comics 
Bloom County 
He ?/KC/7 MY f'W?I?!N(). MJW WHAT f7(} I !70? 
I 
Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 
t.ICK ME 1/U. 0'/el? 1HC FIICC 7Wtce, MIIY£1£ fifTY, 77Mc5 II 111/Y. 
\.._ 

Berke Breathed 

The Far Side Gary Larson 


-
----~------oo::-----·---------------------------­
Sports 
Wednesday, November 4, 1987
page 16 

Irish fall toBroncos; playoff chancesslim 
By KELLY TOWNSEND squad. Despite this, the Sports Writer Broncos were able to chip away at the wall little by little and 
Last night the Notre Dame hold the Irish at bay. By the women's volleyball team went end of the second game, West­up against nationally ranked ern Michigan had pulled down Western Michigan hoping for a the wall to tie the match with victory that might have given a 7-15 game. them a shot at a bid in the Coach Lambert's response to NCAA tournament. Unfortun­his team's performance in the ately, their hopes were dashed second game was less than joy­as the Broncos handed the Irish ful. their eighth loss of the season. "We didn't adjust," said 
In the first game, the Lambert. "It's just that Broncos caught the Irish off simple. Western Michigan guard on their first serve, rack­changed their attack and we ing up seven points. The Irish failed to adjust. They picked responded with two points of themselves up and out hustled their own from Maureen Shea us." and Zanette Bennett. Western The inability to adjust proved Michigan then regained their to be fatal as the Broncos con­momentum, adding three more tinued their diligent attack on 
The Notre Dame volleyball team suffered a defeat points before Notre Dame the Irish defense. In game 
at the hands of Western Michigan, which dashes could answer back. The Irish three, Notre Dame became did answer back, however, more disorganized, making with strong blocks and a ser­bad judgements and bad vice ace by Kathleen Morin, passes. This breakdown led to
Four battle for women's IH title 
who lead the team with four. another 7-15 match. This turned the Irish around, As in the first three games,P.W. beat B-P and B-P beat Pidgeon provided the first half 
By JEFF HEILERT heading them to a 15-13 win. the Irish started the fourth
scoring on runs of 5 and 25
Sports Writer Farley, but Farley beat P.W. Coach Art Lambert was slowly. Unable to effectively
B-P beat Lyons and Lyons beat yards respectively. pleased with the score. break the Western Michigan"I was a little disappointed
The women's Interhall flag Farley, but P.W. beat Lyons. "After a faulty start," said defense, Notre Dame fell into football season ended last Sun­Head to head matchups help in how the game went," said Lambert, "the girls got it to­a holding action to make it asB-P head coach Dan Deboer.
day with many questions and very little. gether. They adjusted to West­hard as possible for Western 
only a few answers. How about records against "Defensively, we had a few ern Michigan's style of play Michigan to score. The Broncos 
non-playoff opponents? All four problems. A little hard work and took away their cross court were finally able to end the The final standings are teams were 5-0. though, and we'll be ready for 
game." game 6-15 to win the match 3-1. tallied, and the playoff berths Last Sunday's action was the playoffs." At the start of the second This is the sixth loss to a topset, but they settle very little. typical of the confusion. game it seemed that the twenty team for the Irish this 
Breen-Phillips and B-P ran its winning streak to Farley, meanwhile, kept Broncos were going to have a season and should limit their Pasquerilla West tied for first six games with a 20-12 win over pace with the leaders by pos­scoring frenzy similar to that chances of an NCAA tourna­with 7-1 records, and Farley Badin (1-7). With the scor'e still ting a convincing 20-0 victory of the first. They were halted ment bid. Putting thoughts like 
and Lyons both ended at 6-2 to close at the half, Margeret over Walsh 0-6). Substitute after three by a strong Irish that behind them, the Irish will tie for third. Johnson scampered 65 yards on quarterback Colleen McGillis defense. The Irish came back face Eastern Michigan tonight. The top four teams qualify the opening play of the second teamed up with Kara England with a point of their own and The Irish are looking to extend 
for the playoffs, so who is half to extend the B-P lead to then put up a defensive wall their series lead over the
see FARLEY, page 13
favored? 20-8. Keri Dresser and Tina that kept out a strong Bronco Hurons to 3-0. 
Strong defenses lead Fisher and Dillon to playoff victories 
By TIM SULLIVAN Flanner the foot of in the game I said, 'let's take minutes. But an interception Flanner's spirits dropped, Sports Writer placekicker Mike Braemer. the sure three and bring the ended the drive deep in Dillon and the game effectivelyAfter a misplayed Flanner defense out and let 'em play."' territory. ended, with that interception. 
If the true strengths of a foot­punt, resulting in Dillon's best The Big Red defense was not Dillon's biggest interception "They moved the ball real ball team emerge during the field position of the day dominating-instead they came came late in the fourth period. well," said Morgan, "but we big games, then both the Dillon (Flanner's 25-yard line), the up with the big plays when Trailing 3-0, Flanner began its came up with the big plays and Fisher Hall men's Inter­Big Red drove ten more yards needed to shut down the Flan­longest drive of the day. Quar­when we had to." hall football teams have true before being stopped on the ner team. terback Pete Parton's passing Fisher's defense was strength in their defenses. Flanner 15. Four interceptions were the ("It was his best game of the definitely dominating. 
Defense was the key in both Dillon coach Jeff Morgan four biggest plays. Flanner year by far," said Flanner The Green Wave completelyof Sunday's playoff games, as then made the tough deeision moved the ball effectively coach Jim Kelly) and the run­shut down Alumni's passing at­Dillon edged Flanner 3-0, and to go for a field goal. Braemer throughout the game, but key ning of Dave Kane got the ball tack and controlled the Dogs' Fisher shutout Alumni 8-0 to nailed it and the defense held Dillon interceptions stymied to the Dillon 10. Kane then took running game to come away move into next weekend's up. Flanner's efforts. The second a pitch and prepared to throw with the 8-0 victory.semi-finals. "With Mike Braemer," said quarter, for instance, belonged an option pass, but he slipped "Our defense played really
Dillon used an uncommon, Morgan, "we'll go for anything to Flanner, as the Flannerites and his errant pass was picked 
see DEFENSE, page 13
but lethal, weapon to defeat under 50 (yards). At that point drove for nearly the entire ten off by Dillon's Andy Aye. 
'91 proving to be a class act for the Irish 
Last spring they were touted as the best recruiting class in the nation. 
Lou Holtz was called a recruiting genius and Irish eyes were smiling when Notre Dame nabbed several blue-chip players to come and play football this fall in the House That Rock Built. 
When the official signing day arrived last February, a full 30 players, the scholarship limit, signed on with the Irish, including all of Holtz' des­ignated "must-haves." 
Coach Holtz is still being praised, and Irish eyes are now glowing thanks to three words. 
Six and one. 
The class of '91 has played a large part in Notre Dame's success on the gridiron this fall and now holds the distinction of being the only members of this squad which have never had a losing season. 
"They've made a substantial contribution," said Holtz of his freshmen. "So many of them have played a prominent role. When you think of how many have played, it's astounding. (Todd) Lyght, (Scott) Kowalkowski, (Tim) Ryan, <Donn) Grimm, (Andre) Jones, (Ricky) Watters, (Tony) Brooks, (Frank) Jacobs, (Kent) Graham, and the list goes on." 
The most notable performances to date have been turned in by the dynamic tailback duo of Tony Brooks and Ricky Watters. Their statistics are 
nearly identical. And equally impressive. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


Brooks is third for the Irish in rushing with ~~6 yards on 44 carries while Watters is close behind with 224 yards on 50 runs. Both rushed for touch­downs Saturday against Navy, Watters for his second of the season and Brooks for his first. 
Holtz outright swept these two away from home­state coaches Barry Switzer and Joe Paterno. Brooks, who has shown talent at the fullback spot as well, hails from Tulsa, Okla. and was actively recruited by the No. 1 Sooners. Watters, the only freshman named on USA Today's first-team All­America squad last year, grew up under the shadow of Paterno's nose in Harrisburg, Pa. 
Quarterback Kent Graham has emerged as a composed signal-caller for Notre Dame and has given Irish-watchers something to speculate about by posting impressive numbers when filling in for another rookie, Tony Rice. 
Graham's dropback passing style has enabled the Irish to use a hurry-up offense and march down the field quickly when necessary. Graham is 9-of-11 for 133 yards, one touchdown and one interception. 
Freshman free safety Todd Lyght sparked Notre Dame's just-short comeback against Pitt with a blocked punt in the second half that set up an Irish touchdown. The multi-talented native of Flint, Mich., billed in the pre-season as Tim Brown's even­tual successor at flanker, earned his only start of the season the next week against Air Force, con-
see LVGHT, page 12 


