

Breezy, cool
/ACCENT: Letters to a lonely flock Partly cloudy today with the high around 70. Clear and very cool tonight with the low in the
[VIEWPOINT: The imperial Congress 
middle to upper 40s. 

VOL. XXII, NO. 5 MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Assaults prompt St. Mary's letter 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
Recent assaults on Saint Mary's students have prompted the College's admin­istration to write a Jetter to stu­dents warning them of poten­tial dangers. 
The alleged assaults oc­curred last Monday and Tues­day in the area of the Northeast Neighborhood, said Patricia Rissmeyer, director of residence life aPd housing. 
In one incident, a Saint Mary's junior said she and an­other junior were assaulted as 
Students attacked at their own houses 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
Two Notre Dame students living in the Northeast Neigh­borhood said they were as­saulted last week in front of their houses. 
The assaults were the latest in what one resident described as an increase in crime in the neighborhood compared to the last school year. 
The students, who were in­volved in separate incidents oc­curring within 30 minutes Tues­day, both reported being assaulted by four young men. 
The victims said the four men appeared to be South Bend residents but not students. The students said they later com­pared descriptions, which turned out to be essentially the same. 
A Notre Dame Avenue resi­dent said the group of four moved through the neighbor­hood, assaulting a student on the street, throwing a brick through the window of a house, assaulting a student on St. Louis Street, and throwing a chair at the front of another house. 
Another Notre Dame Avenue resident said he saw the group walking south down the street. He said he made eye contact and said, "Hey, what's up guys?" 
After they didn't respond, the student said, he started to turn away, but one of them "punched me in the back of the head." 
He said the four then proceeded down the street. 
Several minutes later, a St. Louis Street resident said, he was yelling out an upstairs win­dow to a friend across the street. At the same time, the group of four was coming down the street. 
He said the four appeared to think he was yelling at them they walked back · to their dorms from the Five Corners bar area. 
In a second incident, the stu­dent said, a Notre Dame junior and a Saint Mary's junior were assaulted later the same eve­ning on Howard Street. 
Rissmeyer said she knew of at least two other such inci­dents that occurred in other parts of the city. She could not provide further details, however. 
Rissmeyer said she wrote the Aug. 27 letter to caution stu­
see LETIER, page 3 

and demanded that he come downstairs and apologize. 
The student said he went downstairs to lock the front door, "but they were already pounding on it." 
When he went to close the door, he was pulled outside. The student said one of the four "elbowed me in the jaw and then punched me." He said he then spun away and tried to block the blows, and the four l<>ft 
Both students said they filed reports with the South Bend police. An Observer reporter contacted the police, but they · would not comment until today. In an apparently unrelated incident a week and a half ago, a brick was thrown through the window of another St. Louis Street house, the student resi­dents said. One of the house's residents said the brick was thrown through the front window, and four youths were seen running away. Another resident of the house said the youths returned two nights later "and yelled names at us." He said they returned again that same night. One appeared to be carrying a bat, the stu­dent said, and another youth said he had a gun. 
A student living on Notre Dame Avenue cited other inci­dents and said area students were trying to form a crime watch. 
He said he had lived off­campus for a year and a half, but that crime was much worse this year than before. 
"Tell people not to come into this neighborhood in groups of less than four," he said. "Bet­ter yet, come in a car. 
"Even three isn't enough if <the assailants) have a weapon." 
. -··

' . .' 
• ·-""' t

,,~-,"... '.­
" . .. ' N' ~ ... 
~-­

-The Observec-Greg Kohs
Great seats, huh? 

Diehard football fans assemble In a vast pre-tallgater In front of the Athletic Convocation Center In their quest for tickets. Some have been camping out since Friday, hoping to get prime seats for the autumn action. 
N D student gets probation for involuntary manslaughter 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 

A Notre Dame student 
received  a  two-year  
suspended  sentence  for  in­ 
voluntary  manslaughter  in  

connection with a traffic ac­cident that killed a South Bend man last fall. 
The 20-year old student, sentenced Aug. 4 by Judge William Whitman, will serve two years of probation, County Prosecutor Michael Barnes said. 
The student will also reside for three months in DuComb Center, an alcohol treatment center, and six months in Dis­mas House. The student will begin residence once the school year begins, court records show. 
The student will also con­tinue counseling with Father William Beauchamp, court records said. 
The student was originally charged with reckless homicide, a Class C felony, and involuntary manslaughter, a Class D felony, in the death of Buddy 
D. Moore, 52, of 1314 Goodland Ave. 
Moore was struck as he walked on Edison Road fol­lowing the Penn State-Notre Dame on Nov. 17, police records said. 

The accident occurred when the student's car made a U-turn on Edison, headod.. east and then struck Moore, according to police records. Moore died the next day at St. Joseph's Medical Center from severe head injuries. 
After the accident, the stu­dent was arrested on mis­demeanor charges of driving while intoxicated and driving with an expired operator's license, police records said. 
Those charges were dis­missed and the student charged with the felony counts. 
The student admitted in court April 30 he had been driving too fast and in the op­posite direction from which the police were directing traf­fic. 
At that time the student pleaded guilty to the involun­tary manslaughter charge. The charge of reckless homicide was later dropped, and sentencing was set for May 28. 

An unexpected complica­tion in the case arose on May 26 when Judge Jerome Frese told the parties involved that he was excusing himself from the case. 
Frese told the court that he 
had been informed by the stu­
dent's counsel, attorney 
William Stanley, that Fr. 
Beauchamp told Stanley that 
he believed the defendant was 
a resident of the same dor­
mitory as Frese's son. 
Frese checked with the Uni­
versity and found that it was 
true, court records show. 
Frese said that he was un­aware of that fact in accept­ing the student's guilty plea conditionally. Had Frese been aware of the fact, he would have excused himself from the trial to "avoid the appear­ance of impropriety," court records said. 
A panel of three judges was then chosen, with the prose­cution and defense each able to dismiss one of the judges. The case was then trans­ferred to Judge Whitman, the remaining judge on the panel. 
The student re-entered the guilty plea to the involuntary manslaughter on June 6. 
The student could have been sentenced to a minimum sentence of one year in prison and a maximum sentence of four years and a $10,000 fine. 


--~----~~~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ ----------~­
Monday, August 31 , 1987
page 2 The Observer 
Applications for Chamber Orchestra are still bemg accepted for openings in violin, bass, o~oe, and ~orn. Contact Professor Klugherz at 239-6422 for mformation. -The Observer CAPPIDPMA presents Lois Kress of Coopers a~d Lybrand national accounting firm to~orr?w a~ 7 P·~· m the Hesburgh Library Lounge. The topic will be mterview­ing skills. -The Observer Eight seminarians were orda_ined as deacons Sunda~ at 1: 30 in the Moreau Chapel. The eight are J arne~ Bos~etti, Mark Ghyselinck, James King, Lucas Lamadnd, Wllson Miscamble Philip Sopke, Mark VanWassenhove, and Theodore Weber. They celebrated a Liturgy of Perpetual Profession of Vows Saturday at Sacred Heart Church. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scar beck Layout Staff.......................... Julie Ryan Accent Layout ............. Katy Kronenberg Typesetters........................ Michael Buc Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Brian Conway .......................................... Daniel Cahill Viewpoint Layout .............. Heidi Traxler News Editor ......................... Chris Julka Typists ............................. Karen Vossen Copy Editor ....................... Ti.m O'!Ceefe ND Day Editor ................ Beth Cornwell Sports Copy Editor ............ Brtan 0 Gara .............................................. Maria Doti Photographer........................ Greg Kohs Tile Olllener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duri111 exam and vacation periods. Tile Olllener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writi111 Tile Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tile Olllener is a member of Tile Allodated Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved.  




In Brief 

Lee Marvin died at the age of 63. Marvin was a World War II marine who went on to play tough-guy roles in films like "The Dirty Dozen" and "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence." He died Saturday of heart failure at Tuscon Medical Center: -Associated Press 
A Stolen Sidewalk in Omaha is being .searched for by police. The Easy Parking Co. reported Friday that someone stole its sidewalk the previous night. The old paving brick formed a decorative sidewalk ~long the,~om­pany's parking lot. "Someone stole our sidewalk, the company's president, Mr. Saurez, said. "Would they please bring it back?' -Associated Press 
A space shuttle booster rocket roa.red into life in its first full-scale test-firing Sunday, a crucial step before the planned renewal of shuttle missions next June. Before the boosters are certified and the shuttles are allowed to fly again, officials have decided t~at the redesigned booster must be test-fired at least four times on the ground. NASA officials hope the new rocket design has eliminated the flaw that destroyed Challenger. -Associated Press 
Abortion clinics will be the target of rules unveiled Saturday -by the Department of Health and Human S~r­vices aimed at "building a high wall" between abortion clinics and federally funded family planning programs. Under the proposed rules, clinics that receive federal fam­ily planning funds and also offer ab?rtions would ha~~ to provide separate entrances and _exi~s, separate wai~mg and examination rooms, and mamtam separate medical records and personnel systems, the department said. ­
Associated Press 

Homemade contraptions of scrap metal, sailcloth and wood sputtered across the rain-soaked grass of Tus­hino Airfield on Sunday as Soviet aviation buffs heeded official encouragement to reach for the skies. Tho~sands of air force officers, flight instructors, amateur designers and the curious flocked to Tushino for the 11-day M?s~ow show which ended Sunday. They carpeted the old airfield with 'motorized gliders, canvas biplanes, experimental rotorcraft and a four-wing flapper that only puffed smoke into the air. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Domer has no stomach 


for buying groceries 
Help! For just 60 dollars a week you can help ·feed a starving Notre Dame senior --me. 
You see, I'm an off-campus senior, and I can't 
shop for groceries. It's not some kind of mac­
hisimo "I'm too cool to shop like a woman" 
type of thing. I don't scorn people who make 
their own meals. I want to shop for groceries. 
I need to shop for groceries, but I can't. I simply 
lack grocery purchasing aptitude. 
For the past 20 years of my life I was able to 
hide my ineptitude by relying on my mother, 
school lunches and the dining hall, but this year 
I made the big step off-campus to independent 
living. 
When I told my friends that I was moving out 
of the dorms, they all said that I was crazy. 
"Mike, you're crazy!" they said, "you barely 
know how to do laundry, you can't cook, and 
you think that Pine-Sol is a tequila drink." In 
my heart I knew that they were right, but I had 
made it through 20 years of life being domesti­
cally retarded, and I saw no reason why I 
couldn't fake my way through personal inde­
pendence. 
As a statement of my new-found self-reliance, 
I threw caution to the wind and decided not to 
get a dining hall meal plan this year: no break­
fast, no lunch, no dinner. I was deliberately 
choosing to make the giant off-campus leap 
without a food parachute. 
I didn't realize the import of my decision until 

last week when I moved into my apartment and --=--• 
discovered that, yes indeed, no one was going to cook for me. While sitting, unfed, I began to consider my position. 
After much deliberation, I concluded that it was up to me to feed myself, and the first step in that task would be a brief visit to the local supermarket. The last time I was in a grocery store was when I was six, rode in the cart, and bought gum out of the red candy machine, so my recollection of the Supermarket was a pleas­ant one. But supermarkets have changed since then--they're scary. I was lost in one last week. 
When I walk in the door I am immediately confronted by huge sale signs, noisy checkers and a veritable traffic jam of shopping carts. I carefully separate one from the rest and climb into the little seat. 
I sit for about ten minutes waiting for some­one to come and push me before I realize that I'm really on my own. I undo the seat belt, climb out of the cart and push it past the check­ers and up an aisle ... and down an aisle ... and up an aisle. I don't buy_ anything, I just walk. Alone. With my empty cart. The store is obscenely large and bright. My 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 
Call239·5303 
fqr details. 



BANKING ... 

ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of L 1 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m ~source 
Mike f!tJ,


Naughton L..
\Ja.> .,~
' Yo?-~-.:} 

Accent Editor 
y . 
! 
eyes are assaulted by every color in the spec­trum. Neon "Tide" boxes and flourescent-lit TV dinners clamor for my attention. Rainbow boxes scream at me, "New!" "Improved!!" "Bigger! ! ! " "Better! ! ! " I drown in a sea of superlatives. 
An old lady with a full cart gives me a sym­pathetic smile: she knows that I don't belong here. My lip trembles. 
"I wonder what mom is doing right now?" 
Then I see a light at the end of the tunnel: The cereal section! I charge forward, straight past the "Total," "Grape Nuts," and "Wheaties" to the kiddy section, and there it is, good food that I can wake myself up with -­"Apple Jacks." Just like the dining hall makes. I hear a chorus of children singing "Apple Jacks, Apple Jacks, full of vitamins that's what it packs. Really delicious, crunchy too, Kellogs' Apple Jacks!" 
I am at peace. I buy ten boxes and go home. That night we have a keg; everyone gets drunk and eats my cereal. I wonder --is it too late to move back on campus? 
Join Michiana's 1st Team 
..:aank 

for unsurpassed banking service! '.1· :·1; .... , :•:c 
The Observer page 3 

South African strike ends 

Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -The black miner's union ended South Africa's largest and costliest mine strike Sunday after manage­ment fired tens of thousands of strikers and refused to yield in negotiations. 
The National Union of Mineworkers settled for man­agement's pre-strike wage of­fer, but it would not admit defeat and described the three­week walkout as ''a dress rehearsal for further action." 
"1988 is the year we start marching forward," said union 
Are youdenying yourself a better shot 
at grad school? 
Okay, it may be too late to get a 4.0. But it's not too late to try to do better on your LSAT, GMAT, GRE, or MCAT. For that, there's Stanley H. Kaplan. 
No one has prepped more students than Stanley H. Kaplan. Our test-taking techniques and educational programs have prepared over 1 million students. 
So whatever grad school exam you're taking, call us. Remember, the person next to you during your exam might have taken a Kaplan course. 


!KAPLAN 
STANlEY H. KAPI.AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER liD. DON'T COMPETE Willi A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 [. South Bend Ave. South Bend, INI 46637 Phone 219/272-4135 

LSAT CLASS STARTS NOW! 
30-member union delegation. 
The offer accepted by the union contained only slight im­provements in benefits and was virtually identical to one that union members overwhelm­ingly rejected on Wednesday. 
The chamber said the strike involved 230,000 miners at 31 gold and coal mines at its peak, with about 20,000 strikers re­turning to work in recent days. The union said 340,000 men struck at 44 mines. 
The biggest previous mine strike was in 1946, when about 100,000 miners walked off for a few days before troops broke up the strike. 
"Both the union and the 
Opening mass 
The ObservePMtke Zollan

employers have demonstrated 
The opening mass for the academic year was held this Sunday In
their ability to administer and 
Sacred Heart. "Monk" Malloy presided, and Provost Timothy
withstand pain," said Bobby 
O'Meara gave the homily, which concerned the need to participate
Godsell, industrial relations 
In the academic "revolution."
chief for Anglo American Corp. 
smc TBEBTBE announces:------~~~~ 
General Secretary Cyril Ramaphosa. 
Nine miners were killed during the strike, and the union said on Sunday that more than 500 were injured and 400 ar­rested. Tens of millions of dol­lars in wages and corporate profits were lost. 
Most of the estimated 44,000 fired strikers are expected to be rehired, but at least 7,000 lost their jobs when one com­pany shut down two gold mine shafts. 
The end of the strike came during a three-hour meeting between the Chamber of Mines, which represents the six tar­geted mining companies, and a 

IBrittao and directad bg JULIE JEDSED 
. .
• 
Saptembar I and 2 
7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m D"LaagbliD Buditorium 
on-stage and off-stage openings I 

COPIES BVRILRBLE ID liD ffiDREBD-~ 


FREE 32 oz. SOFT DRINR 

join us for "MEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatball Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Monday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 

Letter 
continued from page 1 
dents against the danger of as­sault. The letter informs stu­dents that attacks had occurred against Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students on Monday and Tuesday. 
The letter states the assaults "involved robberies occuring in isolated sections of South Bend." 
"Any isolated unlit or un­familiar area is potentially dangerous," the letter states. "The Five-Corners bar section and some of the student apart­ment complexes are high­crime areas." 
In the first assault Monday, two women were walking on Eddy Street, returning from Bridget McGuire's Filling Sta­
, tion at about 1:30 a.m., one of the students said. As they passed in front of Logan Center, the woman said, she turned around and saw two men about 100 yards behind her. "I didn't think anything of it at first," she said. About 30 seconds later, the woman said, she turned around and saw the same two men run­ning at them. "They kind of circled us and wouldn't let us pass." One of the men then asked the women for money, she said. When the women refused, one of the men stood behind one wo­man while the other man ripped off her jeans jacket. 
The man also ripped a neck­lace, gold chain, and cross off her neck, she said. 
"After he finished grabbing her jacket, he threw her down on the ground," the other wo­man said. "As soon as they got her jacket they took off." 
The victim suffered a severe black eye and facial cuts, she said. "They were holding my arms as I began to fall so I couldn't break my fall." 
The other woman said she was not touched by either as­sailant. The entire incident lasted no more than three to five minutes, she said. The wo­man said the two men didn't show a weapon. 
RisEmeyer said she wa~ ap­proached by the student at­tacked in the assault and asked to write a letter to students. She said the College regularly writes letters cautioning stu­dents against the dangers of as­sault. 
No details about the second assault were available Sunday night. 
The Observer Monday, August 31, 1987 
The Observer Needs~Drivers! 
~hifts Available Each Day 10 am-11 am; 11 am-12 pm. ~MAJ\B If interested See Jim Wehner at the Observer Office -3rd $ floor Lafortune. 
Look for Casio's Super Sweepstakes. 


WIN-A PORSCHE 924! 
See your School Paper or Bookstore September -October 

Casio solar scientific calculators. 
With these three calculators, Casio 
continues to give students and profes­
sionals the most features and functions ,for the fewest dollars. 
Lesson 1: Our FX451M gives you 132 total functions, including binary, octal and hexadecimal calculations and conversions. At the touch of a key, it provides you with 13 commonly used . physical constants like the speed of light, Planck's constant and atomic mass. It gives you 16 metric conversion functions too, as well as a 10 digit display with 10 digit mantissa plus 2 digit exponent for 
greater accuracy. 
IJ 
And because the fruits of your hard work are worth saving, we've added a feature called Solar PlusrM. Not only does it let you work in low-or no--tight situations, it keeps the memory function· ing, even with the power off. 
Lesson 2: Our less expensive FX-115M also features Solar Plus and a 10 digit display with 10 digit mantissa plus 2 digit exponent It offers you 10~ functions, including statistics and com­puter math calculations, and it even calculates fractions. 
Both our FX451M and FX-115M come with a handy, comprehensive application book. 

Lesson 3: Our most econdmical· . solar scientifiC, the FX"300; bOOsts !l · functions, an accurate 8 digit display, with 6 digit mantissa ptus 2 digit expo­nent It features statistics, permutations. . combinations and convenient engineer> ing notation. · 
Before you take Science 1 or 1001, take a lesson in economics from Casids FX-451M, FX-115M, and FX-300. You'll be amazed, not just by how much they can do, but by how littie they'll do it for:. 



CASIO® 
Where miracles never cease 
Casio, Inc. Consur(ler Products Division: 570 Mt. Pleasant Avenue. Dover, NJ 07801 (201) 361-5400 
-----------------~-­



Iraqi warplanes increase bombing 
Associated Press Iraq nor independent sources identified the ships. The convoy of two tankers MANAMA, Bahrain -Iraqi and at least six U.S. warships
• fighter-bombers hit Iran's was about a third of the wayKharg Island oil terminal for a along its 550-mile voyage to second day Sunday in an es­Kuwait. calating offensive in the Per­Kuwait asked the United sian Gulf as a new convoy of States to give 11 of its 21 U.S.-escorted Kuwaiti tankers tankers U.S. flags and escorts sailed toward the battle zone. to protect them from Iranian 
Iraq said it resumed the at­attack. Iran had accused tacks Saturday after a 45-day Kuwait of backing Iraq and lull to keep Iran from using in­began attacking Kuwaiti creased oil revenues to con­tankers last September. tinue the 7-year-old war and force it to accept a United Na­The convoy entered the gulf tions cease-fire. after passing through the Strait 
Iran vowed Saturday to of Hormuz, within range of retaliate with "a crushing Iran's Chinese-made anti-ship response" if its oil exports were Silkworm missiles. threatened and said no targets No indication emerged whe­
The Observer page 5 
United Limo replaces Transpo 
By MARILYN BENCHIK  United Limo provided signif­ schedule  has  also  been  al­ 
Saint Mary's Editor  icant savings. One we could  tered this year.  
not ignore."  Wilkin  said  added  stops  
United Limo will now pro­ Lyphout said that both com­ have been added to the regu­ 
vide bus shuttle service be­ panies, Transpo and United  lar bus route. There will be  
tween Notre Dame and Saint  Limo, were asked to submit a  additional  stops  at  the  Li­ 
Mary's instead of Transpo.  proposal. "United Limo's was  brary, Campus View, Notre  
The decision  to  switch  to  much lower than Transpo's,"  Dame Apartments,  and  the  
United Limo came from the  he said.  main circle. The stops were  
Notre Dame Business Office.  The United Limo contract  added at the request of uni­ 
"Primarly Notre Dame had  is  the  first  multi-year  con­ versity officials.  "The new  
the decision," said Jim Lyp­ tract the University has had  schedule will begin at six in  
hout, assistant vice president  with the shuttle service. The  the  morning  because we're  
for business affairs.  term  of  the  agreement  is  trying to accomodate people  
Lyphout stressed that the  three  years,  with  service  going  to  and  coming  from  
University  was  always  beginnning in August 1987 and  work," Wilkin said.  
pleased with Transpo's  ser­ ending May 1990, according to  The  increased  service  
vice which "was always very  Lyphout.  In addition to the  means increased stops during  
good." He said the decision  change in companies provid­ the peak morning and night  
was  primarily economic:  "  ing the shuttle service, the  periods.  

ND ready for national College Bowl 
would be immune, including ther the United States had been By MIMI TUOHY The national tournament will Dame victory led to the nation­the reflagged Kuwaiti tankers informed in advance of the Staff Writer be hosted by television person­als in April. and the U.S. warships escort­Iraqi raids or whether its ships ality Dick Cavett. It will be Team member Cora Peng ing them. But there has been were on a special alert status Football season has not even aired on the Disney Channel on participated in a similar con­no Iranian retaliation so far. against possible Iranian started, but Notre Dame is Sundays at 5:30p.m. The series test in high school. "I enjoyed 
retaliation. already scheduled for a televi­will begin on September 13th it in high school and wanted to 
Iraq also claimed to have hit Iran and Iraq had not at­sion appearance in a bowl and continue until December continue it. It's an opportunity three "large maritime tar­tacked each other's commerce game. 20th. to meet people, travel and have gets," a term usually meaning in the gulf since before the U.N. Five Notre Dame students The Notre Dame College a lot of fun at the same time." tankers or other big ships, in­Security Council passed a will participate in the College Bowl team is coached by Peter Although the campus tourn­
cluding one off Kharg. Neither cease-fire resolution on July 20. Bowl. 
THE CELLAR 
GRAND OPENING 




TODAY 

CHECK OUT THE LATEST FROM: 
John Cougar New Order R.E.M. 

AS WELL AS CLASSIC GROUPS LIKE: 
Pink Floyd INXS Dire Straits U2 

We feature 48 hr delivery on all requests not in stock. 
Save on CO's and albums $13.98 on most CO's $6.98 on most albums Also, blank TOK & Maxell cassettes available 
Located in the basement of Lafortune. 

Lombardo, Director of the Cen­ter for Continuing Education. Team members include 1987 graduate Thomas Mowle, senior Cora Peng and juniors Dominic Alfaro, Brian McKin­ley and Rob Hennig. 
Coach Lombardo chose the varsity team from a campus tournament held at Notre Dame last January. The team practiced daily before travel­ing to Southern Illinois Univer­sity for the regionals. A Notre ament will not be held until Jan­uary, Coach Lombardo urges anyone interested in organiz­ing a team to call the tennis office for more information. 
The bowl is a quiz show in which students answer ques­tions for points. The amount of points for each question depends upon the amount of dif­ficulty. Subjects include litera­ture, science, history, religion, philosophy, art, drama, and current events. 


STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 Ma~~~ :
L-------------------1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts I
I Reg. $8 family haircuttas I
t-------------------1 

: ssOFF ANY PERM : 
I Ma~~ I ~------------------~ 

MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ·~-­





Viewpoint
page 6 Monday, August 31, 1987 
Congress should heed its limits 
"I have felt that Congress has over a number of years been gradually usurping the powers and duties of the executive branch of government. They have been greedy to gain power and control in all areas. These hearings have driven this point home well. " 

Kevin Smant 
guest column 
Is this yet another quotation from a raving Colonel Oliver North? Not at all; instead, this comes via a woman in Con­yers, Georgia, writing to Admiral John Poindexter. And it would appear the Georgia belle is not alone in her an­tipathy to the Congress in the wake of the Iran-Contra hearings. Colonel North, for example, was painted as a corrupt, unscrupulous, immoral, Ram­boesque loose cannon, running his own foreign policy from a tiny White House room while busily shredding any and all documents connected with his activ­ities (and presumably planning to shred the Constitution next). What chance could North have in defending himself before a Congressional com­mittee which obviously enjoyed the moral high ground? And yet. . .following North's impassioned defense of his ac­tions, opinion polls showed aid to the Contras gaining approval, Congress gaining only increasing public censure, while North t-shirts, buttons, bumper stickers, and hair cuts abounded. What is going on here? 
Perhaps the American people are waking up. Perhaps Congress has gone so far in trying to exert its will in foreign policy, in trying to correct the perceived wrongs of Vietnam and Watergate, that the national interest is imperiled. For Congressional involve­ment in foreign affairs is not new. First came the War Powers Act of 1973, re­quiring a vote of Congress to commit troops for more than 60 to 90 days, un­less U.S. forces are attacked or in im­minent danger of an attack. But the fun was just beginning. In 1975, Congress vetoed additional military aid to Kam­puchea, bringing about the collapse of the Lon Nol government and turning the country over to the Khmer Rouge communists. In that same year came the Tunney amendment, cutting off 
U.S. aid to anti-Soviet factions in An­gola and facilitating yet another Com­munist victory. In 1976 Congress passed the Clark amendment, forbidding any aid at all to anti-Communist Angolan rebels. In 1980 it passed the Intelligence Oversight Act, authorizing Congress to monitor all intelligence activities, in­cluding joint operations with Allies. The best example of this phenomenon in the Reagan years has been the passage of the several vaguely-worded Boland amendments, all designed to curb or cut off U.S. aid to the Contras. 


All these acts serve to tie the hands of the executive branch and our intel­ligence services; limiting their flexibility to assist anti-Communist allies abroad. But Congress has subtler means of getting its way. In the wake of the accidental lraqui attack on the 
U.S.S. Stark, Senator James Sasser was almost immediately on the scene, making public statements and serving to inflame public fears of U.S. involve­ment in the region. Representative Les Aspin publicly disclosed the date U.S. warships would begin escorting tankers through the Persian Gulf. Aspin claimed that the date was not classi­fied, but a Pentagon spokesman called the meeting in which Aspin and others were told of the plan "very sensitive and classified." Senator Joseph Biden was recently quoted as saying that he did not like two proposed Reagan Ad­ministration covert operations of which he had been informed. He threatened to leak the information; the plans were called off. Senators David Durenberger and Patrick Leahy also reportedly threatened to go public with highly­classified intelligence information divulged to them in order to scuttle a 1985 operation against Libya. This plan was dropped after it leaked from other quarters. 
The fact is, perhaps the public, in­stead of waking up, is tired. Americans are tired of Congressmen imperiously cross-examining men like Colonel North and damning them for subvert­ing American foreign policy, while they turn and seek their own geopolitical goals by fair means or foul. They are tired of Congressional hypocrites who condemn the Reagan Administration for "selling arms to terrorists", while they seek to torpedo any and all at­tempts to aid growing anti-Soviet in­digenous resistance groups worldwide. Ever since the Iran-Contra affair broke, congressmen have treated us to solemn faces, mumblings about a "Constitutional crisis", and warnings of an "imperial Presidency." But Congress has been the one seeking to expand its power in foreign affairs. And it is they who have had much to say on the question of aid to foreign resistance movements. With Communist regimes installed in such countries as Cam­bodia, Angola and Nicaragua--all with resistance movements denied aid at one time or another by Congress--our legislators have much to answer for. If the term "imperial Congress" is ever used to describe this period of U.S. diplomacy, one can be sure the name will not be a fond one. 
Kevin Smant is pursuing a doctoral degree in the History department. 



P.O. Box Q 
Flippant comment deemed unneeded 
Dear Editor: 
"It's bark was worse than its bite as a falling limb from a hickory tree killed ... " 58 year-old Taylor Gibson. This is the flippant manner in which The Observer treated this tragic acci­dent in the "In Brief" section of the August 26 edition. We find this utterly tasteless, cold and inexcusable. We hardly think that Mr. Gibson's death should be the subject of light lunchtime amusement. We all hope that in the fu­ture such serious matters will be treated with tact and dignity rather than subjected to insipid attempts at humor. If The Observer is incapable of seriously dealing with such incidents, it should refrain from attempting to report them. 
Bill Picht Kevin Regan Clark Howard John Whelpley Michael Brady Flanner Hall 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

General Board 


Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief .. ..... Kevin Becker Busmess Manager.... .Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ....................... Mark Pankowski Adverttsing Design Manager..... .. David Culligan News Editor.. . .. ..... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager.. ............ Melinda Chapleau News Editor ..... . .. .................. J1m Riley Production Manager... .......... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty Viewpoint Editor ................. Chris Murphy ProJects Manager . . . . .. . . .. .. . Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor .. . .. ............ Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager.. . ... Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Edt tor .... . ........... Michael Naughton Controller...... . . .. .. . . . . .. . . . . . . Tracy Schtndele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager... ... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ....... ....................... Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 

-



Accent 
Letters to a lonely flock 
BLOOMINGTON, Ill. (AP) 
Even without beneflt of cable 
television, the Rev. John Diet­
zen's flock numbers more than 
a million. 
Dietzen Is pastor In person to 
6, 000 Roman Catholics at Holy 
Trinity Church and an addi­
tional million people via his 
nationally syndicated advice 
column, "The Question Cor­
ner." 
It answers readers' questions about how Catholic faith flts Into their lives. It Is distributed weekly to Catholic newspapers In the United States and Canada by the National Catho­lic News Service In Washington, 
D.C. 
The mall brings up to 500 questions a week to the desk of the 59-year-old priest. whose clerical collar may be stuck Into his pocket on a hot summer day but who finds his workload more of a hobby than a bur­den. 
Some questions he can an­swer by dictating Into a tape machine during a car trip; others may take up to 20 hours of re-search. 
Some of the letters he gets are scrawled; others are neatly penned; some are typed single space and go on for pages. He describes those who write to him as "generally either very thoughtful people or people who have some serious per­sonal anguish." 
Calvin and Hobbes 
He answers two or three questions a week In the column. If there Is evident despair, he writes personally. 
A grieving parent wants to know if her stillborn son will receive salvation, even though he died before he could be baptized. How Is lt. another reader asks, that a former priest. now married, can receive the sacraments, and our daughter, who married a divorced man, cannot ? 
An old person with poor health asks If It Is a sin to pray for good health. Another writes, "If a son has knowingly entered an Invalid marriage, are his parents obliged to accept this? Can they refuse to forgive him? Can they receive the sacraments worthily without forgiveness In their hearts?" 
Dietzen attributes the long life of his column -1.3 years ­to his approach. "I take people seriously, and respectfully." 
Simple knowledge about Catholicism clears up a lot of problems. 
"One of the things I have become more and more con­vinced about from this enor­mous mail." Dietzen says, "Is that most of the tension and sometimes violent dissatisfac­tion with Christianity ... Is from just not knowing the Catholic faith or the Christian faith ...They know a few phrases and they know them 
1'\-\IS LOOKS LIKE YOUR 1RAt6MOGRIFIER 
I 



~~~' 
~-~ 
c~--­

L..£~;;L...-~::a...--......il.~ 
well, and they are betrayed by 
those few phrases." 
Dietzen sometimes is asked 
If he ever makes up questions. 
He doesn't have to. "If I never 
got another one," he says, "I'd 
have enough to last me 15 
years." 
Directness, simplicity and compassion are hallmarks, but don't call Dietzen the Catholic Ann Landers, because he will quickly point out the differ­ence. In his column, he is acting as a priest. His advice deals with theology, he will remind you, not just human relationships. Writing "The Question Corner" has taught Dietzen that theology grows out of experience, he says, and his own theology has grown from writing the column. 
Through contact with readers, he has come to believe in the significance of "the pervasive love of God In people's lives." In many cases, "they thought there would be no tomorrow and yet they have seen the power of good and hope and joy come out of those experiences." 
He attributes that to "the mysterious power of love that we would call the work of Christ. It Is really at work In the world. The people see it." If they can't see lt. he tries to show It to them. 
Bill Watterson 

'"V<,....~•• Mac hired him, un­
of his identity. Mac gave nda a job. Mary moved leaving a bitter Vince. ing: Amanda keeps a se­from Sam. 
The World Turns: The boycotted Meg's recep­after learning of Tonia's ltakel)Ver. Tonio fumed at learn­
ng that James controlled him. nda had to give James the to the house she took from 
Shannon grew suspicl· of Simon, and Duncan Charles Pierson to watch Sierra conflded his prob-
with Lila to a sympathetic With Holden away on an Lance offered Lily 
,,.....,...,,~~~ Coming: Birthday ict. Bold and The Beautiful: Brooke took Caroline to spend night with the Logans. After ng about Caroline's rape, 
1

""'---··-offered her his love and but refused to tell what happened. Eric en­Thorne's feelings for ine. Rocco gave Donna 1 .......,....... to pay her rent. Step· nie figured out that Bill had offered Thorne a and accused Bill of trying 
destroy her family. Coming: acts self-destructive. Of Our Lives: Eve moved 
Kim when Shane had business in Washington. Diana fled her father's house fter finding him in bed with 
Nick found out that fer had deceived him, and forcing her and Frankie to 
a porno fllm. Kayla was ned to learn that Jack's was critical. Kiriakls Ed he would use Adrienne keep Patch In line. Coming: and Roman to the res-
n.,.n .. raJ Hospital: Bobbie took Melissa and Skeeter when 
developed pneumonia. found it hard to avoid Simone was upset to see 
huddling with Camellia. and Anna went to Mt. following Elena's 
code. Dusty refused to a gig in Mt. Rushmore until met with Elena, but 
his mind. Alan refused 

Monica about his trip to '""'lt.,.,.,.,.,.,...rt Coming: The WSB l~r·~~~·r~" for a battle. 
1vLnu11nu Light: An upset Riva sexy dress and 
7 

from April's disappearance. Li got Jack into bed at her new apartment. Jack then guiltily turned down Stacey's ;u'lvl'll'l('f'•"' Coming: April in danger. One Life To Live: Tina told Viki about Maria's blackmail and 
_ their struggle, but refused to go to the police or reveal what Maria had on her. Frank ac­cused Sandra and Jonathan of having an affair and to shoot them. Jonathan took out his gun. Shots were fired, and Frank fell off a cliff. Jonat­han claimed his gun had been empty, and the pollee couldn't flnd a body. Mari-Lynn ran off in tears after Tom told her that Lee Halpern was her real mot­her. Coming: Tom fears for his daughter. Ryan's Hope: Lizzie refused John's excuses about his night at Concetta's and ran to Ben. While Ben and Lizzie made love, Ryan urged John to flght for her. John turned up at Ben's in search of Lizzie. The two men fought, with Lizzie staying by Ben's side. Concetta encouraged John to pursue Lizzie, then went to Ben's and demanded that Lizzie speak to her. Coming: Lizzie makes a decision. Santa Barbara: Cruz's witness proved Paul had been made impotent by an accident, and therefore lied about being Tori's lover. After Eleanor switched Cain's pills, he col­lapsed but recovered. Cain recognized Dr. Nikolas as having treated him after Viet­nam. Jake and Hayley made love. Jake reluctantly agreed model for Kelly's new fra­grance. Kelly and Jeffrey went to be married in Lake Tahoe, but C.C, asked them to be wed in Santa Barbara. Coming: Pearl's suspicions mount. The Young & The Restless: Nikki was rushed to the hospi­tal with food poisoning. VIctor vowed revenge when he finally discovered that his wife had made a fool of him. Nina got Phillip drunk and seduced him. 
Phillip was horrlfled when Danny accused him of driving and causing the accident. Cricket pleaded guilty to reck· less driving, arming Jill with more ammunition. Coming: Cricket fights for her job. 
1987, McNaught Synd. 
The Observer Monday, August 31, 1987
page 8 
Puckett powers Twins into first 
! Sports Briefs 
place with two home runs 
The Women's Soccer Club will hold practice 
BoSox 7, Indians 3 

Associated Press the Texas Rangers 7-0 to main­
every MWF 4-6 p.m. and TT 4:30-6 p.m. on Stepan Field. 
tain their one-game lead in the
Come ready to play. For further information call Kate at 
MILWAUKEE-Kirby Puck­American League East. CLEVELAND Dwight
2904. -The Observer 
The Rugby Club will begin practice today at 4 p.m. behind Stepan Center. Any questions should be directed to Oakie at 234-5986. -The Observer 
The Hockey Team will hold a meeting for all students interested in trying out for the varsity team. Anyone interested should bring a pen and their class schedule to an organizational meeting today, at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium. For additional information, con­tact the hockey office at 5227. -The Observer 
The Bicycle Club will have daily rides leaving from the bus stop at 4 p.m. All experience levels are welcome. A formal meeting will be scheduled later. Call Robert Kobayashi at 1668 if you have any questions. -The Observer 
Off-CampusFootballislookingforanyoneinterested in joining the O.C. team, coaching or being a captain. Those interested should call NVA at 239-6100. -The Obser­ver 
WVFI-AM 64 will have a mandatory meeting for all returning sports staff members Wednesday, September 2, at 10:30 p.m. at the WVFI studio. Any questions, call Sean Pieri or Jamey Rappis at 2266. -The Observer 
The ND Aikikai will have its first Aikido practice Wednesday, September 2, at 6 p.m. in room 219 of The Rock. Aikido is a Japanese martial art which employs wrist locks instead of relying on physical strength. Call Brian at 1942 or 1023 with any questions. -The Observer 
Interhall football captains are required to attend a captains meeting Friday, September 4, at 4:30 in the football auditorium. -The Observer 
0.C. Soccer is looking for off -campus undergraduates interested in playing men's soccer. Call Dave Thompson or Tom Yemc at 287-5530. -The Observer 
The wrestling team will hold a meeting for anyone interested in trying out for the team in the ACC football auditorium, September 7, at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through 
,,.. Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer ett went 6-for-6 with four runs batted in, and homered twice for the second consecutive game, leading the Minnesota Twins to a 10-6 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The Twins, who took over first place in the American League West with the victory, trailed 6-5 going into the eighth, but they loaded the bases on a single by Greg Gagne, Puck­ett's second double of the game and an intentional walk to Gary Gaetti. 
Dan Plesac relieved Chuck Crim, 5-6, and retired Tom Brunansky on a fly, but Kent Hrbek tied the score with a sacrifice fly. Pinch-hitter Gene Larkin then singled in Puckett and Gaetti with the go-ahead runs. 
Royals 11, ChiSox 7 
CHICAGO -Jamie Quirk's three-run homer capped a five­run sixth inning and Kevin Seit­zer added a grand slam in the eighth, powering the Kansas City Royals to an 11-7 victory over the Chicago White Sox Sunday. 
Jim Winn walked the bases loaded in the eighth and Seitzer hit reliever Scott Nielsen's first pitch for his 13th homer and first grand slam. 
Richard Dotson, 10-11, had a 2-llead and was working on a one-hitter when the Royals rallied in the sixth. 
Tigers 7, Rangers 0 
DETROIT -Lou Whitaker scored four of Detroit's seven unearned runs Sunday and Doyle Alexander pitched a three-hitter as the Tigers beat 
Texas knuckleballer Charlie Hough, 14-10, allowed only three hits in seven innings, but catcher Geno Petralli was charged with six passed balls, tying a major-league record set in 1902 by Harry Vickers of the Cincinnati Reds. 
Hough struck out six and walked six and also was charged with a wild pitch. 
Alexander, 3-0, struck out six and walked none. He retired 22 consecutive batters before al­lowing a double to Tom O'Malley with two outs in the ninth. 
Angels 6, O's 2 
BALTIMORE-Wally Joyner hit a three-run homer and Tony Armas and Brian Downing added solo shots as the Califor­nia Angels defeated the Bal­timore Orioles 6-2. 
Johnny Ray, in his debut with the Angels after being acquired in a trade with Pittsburgh, con­tributed two doubles while hel­ping Don Sutton to hi& 319th career victory. 
Joyner hit his 27th homer off Eric Bell, 9-11, after Ray sliced an RBI ground-rule double. 
Armas, batting .172, hit the homer in the third and Downing opened the fifth with his 23rd homer. Dick Schofield followed with a double, California's sixth extra-base hit, knocking out Bell. 
Sutton, 9-10, supported by only six runs in his last seven losses, gave up six hits in seven shutout innings in his first ap­pearance since being involved in a scuffball controversy last Monday. 
Evans went 3-for-5 with two home runs and four RBI as the Boston Red Sox defeated the Cleveland Indians 7-3 "&unday. 
Roger Clemens, 14-8, pitch­ing on three days' rest, was the winner, allowing three runs on 10 hits in six innings, striking out eight and walking one. Wes Gardner pitched three hitless innings for his eighth save. 
Jim Rice, who combined with Evans for six of Boston's 15 hits, put the Red Sox ahead in the second with a solo homer, his nth. The Red Sox added two more runs in the inning on a two-run single by Ellis Burks. 
Evans' first homer of the game gave the Red Sox a 4-0 lead in the fourth inning before Cleveland cut the margin to 4-2 in the fourth on run-scoring singles by Pat Tabler and Junior Noboa. 
Jays 13, A's 3 
TORONTO -George Bell hit two homers, one of them in Toronto's eight-run seventh in­ning, and Jim Clancy survived a shaky start Sunday as the Blue Jays routed the Oakland Athletics 13-3. 
The score was tied 3-3 in the seventh when Toronto scored the go-ahead run on second baseman Tony Bernazard's wild throw on a potential double play ball. Bell followed with a three-run homer, his 40th of the season. 
Bell added his 41st homer in the eighth, breaking the team record set by Jesse Barfield last season. He now is one ahead of Oakland's Mark McGwire for the American League lead. 

1'he ~Notnt Dame office, lOcated on u.third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, 8CCI!Pts classified ~Iaing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Wenday through Friday. 1'he ~s.mt ~office, located on the third floor of HaggarCollge Center, accepts claalfleds frorR 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day claalfleda tsl p.m. All clualfleda must
Classifieds be pnti)Wd, either In pefSOf1 or by mall. The ~ Ia 10 cents per fhe m..ctera per day. 
NOTICES 
DOES your group need aT-shirt design? How about T-shirts or other imprinted sportswear?? I work thru a local T -shirt shop--reasonable prices. Call John at 1662. 
s·Piie:o-Eii·--:wo-fiopfiocii-ss-INa:···o-, 
237-1949; H: 277-8131. 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY; 277-2724 EVE. 
Foreigner'• Bible Study Starting Sept 3, thursday evenings 7-8:30 pm at 1010 Notre Dame Avenue, Apt 4. If you know nothing about Christianity, but are inter­ested. Foreigners especially welcome, we will try to speak simple English. Dl­rectlona: Walk down (15 min.) Notre Dame Av till Howard Street (STOP sign). You can also take the 7pm city bus. White stone house with trees just before Howard. Quutlona? Call 287 4855, or just come and see. 
' LOST/FOUND I 
PLEASEII Whoever accidently took my small, upholstered PINK ARM CHAIR and laminated wood BOOKCASE lrom ALUMNI HALL STORAGE please call Eileen at 271-0952. I can't afford new furniture. THANK YOUI 
LOST-LOST-LOST I left my pink jean jacket on one of the Senior Class buses that went to Chicago Wednesday. The bus company doesn't have it, so sam~ nice concerned Domer must have pick~J it up for me. Thanks a millionllll Please call the Senior Class Offica at £239·51 36 and ask for Amy so I can thank you and pick It up. If no one is in, please leave a message on the answering machine. 
LOST: I left a stereo cabinet at MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSE on Aug. 22 REWARDIIII Call BILLY (288-4319) or KIRSTIN (x2596) 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS ON GAME OR SPECIAL WEEKENDS ON CAMPUS. 219-291-7153. 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE GOOU NEIGHBORHOOD 288-0955-255-3684 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND 
FAIR PRICES 277-3097 683-8889 
HOUSE FOR RENT-7BEDROOMS,2 BATHS,OFF STREET PARKING,WASHER&DRYER, 2 REFRIGERATORS. NEAR ND,RENT NEGOTIABLE. MAY BE RENTED BY ROOM. CALL DEBBIE AT 288-6740 BEFORE 8PM. 
NEED MORE SPACE? OPEN HOUSE Monday and Tuesday, &31 and 911, 6PM­8PM. Duplex for rent. Each unit has 2 bedrooms, kitchen, livingroom and full bath. Come see 527 S. Eddy and be settled in by the weekend I 
WANTED 
SITIER WANTED AFTER 3 P.M. TIL 6 
P.M. TUES. THRU FRI. CALL AFTER 8:30 P.M. 259·91 10. 
Caring person needed to watch 3 pre­school children in our home 2 afternoons a week. Close to ND. Tuesdays and Fridays preferred. $3.50 per hour. 232­7273. 

UNIQUE PART-TIME STUDENT EM­PLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY Zenith Data Systems is looking for a self­motivated Student Sales Representative to sell and promote Zenith Personal Com­puters to Faculty, Staff and Students on the Notre Dame campus. Qualified can­didates should have: microcompuler ex­perience, working toward degree in En­gineering, Art & Design, Computer Science or Business. Tremendous po~ tential in explo~ive market place with un­limited commission structure, an oppor­tunity to earn a Zenith Computer, and flexible work hours. Send resume and cover letter to: ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS 1900 NORTH AUSTIN AVENUE CHICAGO, IL 60639 ATTN: JIM HOGLE 
EARN $4.00 PER HOUR. Pizza Hut Delivery has openings for delivery drivers. Start at $4.00 per houretipsegas reimbursment. (Reimbursments and tips are paid daily.) We offer flexible schedule, meals, and a great work en­virement. You must be 18 years old with a car, insurance, and drivers licence. Pizza Hut is an Equal Opportunity Em­ployer. Call 277-2662. 
HIRING ALL POSITIONS -FULL TIME, PART TIME -WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST., 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 277-5666. APPLY IN PERSON! 
SITIERS NEEDED FOR DELIGHTFUL 2 YR. OLD GIRL WORK AROUND YOUR SCH. & PROVIDE OWN TRANSP. $2.50 AN HR. 287-3315. 
FOR SALE 

for sale: sofa,rocker and footstool,end tables,coffee table,floor lamp table lamp,dehumifier.Call 289-9725 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY!· CALL 
1·312-742-1142, EXT. 7316. 
For Sale: Compugraphics Unisetter Jr., lont strips, and width cards. Direct all inquiries to the Systems Manager of The Observer. 
Mac 512K w-tase, $950 or best offer. 654-3323, leave message. 
1980 Yamaha 400 Special, good con­d..$600 or best 654-3323, leave mes­sage. 
IBM XT clone 1 yr old 640 K .V 20 MB hardrive & NEW ITI RGB monitor $1200 OBO, call Jennifer 259-5840 ..... ................................................. NEW IBM software wtnanuals Microsoft Word, Flight Simulator, mise games $300 OBO, call Jen 259-5840 
2 CARPETS 4 SALE 
1 EX LARGE RUST SHAG WPAD PERFECT COND. $25 1 REG. ORANGE 
$15 

PRICE NEG, ANDY 1434 
REAL EXCITEMENT. 1979 Honda Prelude. Black,5 speed, AM-FM stereo cassette player, electric sunroof, cruse control. new front brakes, runs well, looks great MUST SELL $1195 . call 298­1586 7:00-10:00 PM 
TICKETS 
HELP II I need three Michigan State GA's. Please call 283-2059 and ask for PauL 
NEED NAVY FOOTBALL TICK­ETS,CALL JOHN £ 36841 
WANTED: AT LEAST 2 USC TICKETS FOR OCT. 24. CALL 1120 
I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN CALL MIKE 1741 
Have 2 tix tor Mich. State. Will trade for Navy or B.C. Call 717 339-3141. 
Need six Michigan State student tickets or GA's. Call Mike at 271-0756. 
HELP I I need 2 GA's for any home lootball game. Call Janice al271-9130 evemngs or 283-4653 days. 
I need 2 A's for Mich St! Please call Ned at 3515. 
I NEED GA TIXS TO MICH. MiCH ST, & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
NEEDS MICHIGAN STATE G.A.'S CALL DON 2506 
I NEED USC GA's have all others & $$ to trade, David x1712 
NEED 6 TIX FOR NO-USC GAME OCT.24. CALL COLLECT71 7-339-1040, BILL DITCHEY, MT. CARMEL, PA. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & I,_IQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WAKE UPI 
Look out for the Notre Dame Squash Club I 
CHIPS I CHIPS! Tues. Nitel blank generation 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTER­VIEWS AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTER­VIEWS AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1. 
................................................................ 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTER­VIEWS AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1. 
wotiii·e;;.--;.·h;·;;;~~:Y..ii~~k·-;;;;;ii; ....... 
almply to join a group In hopes 
ollame, popularity, and lncraaaed 
expoaure to the opposite aex??? 
ao do we... 
SOCIOLOGY CLUB -Activities Night 
................................................................ 
John "the rebel" 
Welcome back fr~m the big house. Next 
time you see those cups, they'll be float­
ing in the lake. 
-The gang 
JUNIORS! FOOTBALL FANS! OVERNIGHT CAMPERS! 
Stop by lor donuts and O.J. at ticket aalea Tuesday morning. It's FREEl Compllmente ol the Junior Class. 
DEAR DILLONITES WITH THE EXTRA LARGE LOFT, IT COULDN'T HAVE BEEN AS BIG AS THE ONES WE FOUND IN MORRISSEY. SORRY, BUT YOU LOST... (THAT LOVIN' FEELING) NO GIRLS 
"I am Solomon the Salmon." 
Dave Cowden 
................................................................ 
IV CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP. Serious and applied Bible study by students for students. Man 31 Aug 7-8:30 pm. in 237 Lewis hall. tor into Cindy x2156 or Karel 
2561684. 
Biis·s..Pi:AviiR'"wiiNiio··;;c;R··a·,;:N·o:-­
cALL 2175 OR 1648. 

The Observer 

Tennessee nips Iowa, 23-22, in college Kickoff Classic 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Phil Reich, Tennessee's new placekicker after six years of the Reveiz brothers, kicked a 20-yard field goal with three seconds left Sunday as the 17th­ranked Vols opened the college football season by defeating No. 16 Iowa 23-22. 
Reich also connected from 45 and 25 yards earlier in the fourth quarter to bring the Vols back from a 19-14 deficit after they blew a 14-3 second period lead in the fifth annual Kickoff Classic. 
What proved decisive, however, was Iowa's failure on a two-point conversion pass after taking a 19-14 lead on Kevin Harmon's 20-yard touch­down run late in the third per­iod. 
Tennessee scored both its touchdowns in the second per­iod on a 1-yard run by redshirt freshman Reggie Cobb, the game's most valuable player and leading rusher with 138 yards on 25 carries, and a 96­yard run by linebacker Darrin Miller after he intercepted a pitchout from Chuck Hartlieb, one of Iowa's three quarter­backs. 
Harmon scored Iowa's first touchdown on a 23-yard run after taking a shovel pass from Hartlieb in the second period. The Hawkeyes' other points came on field goals of 42, 27 and 42 yards by Rob Houghtlin. 

scrimmage was in the offen­along. And after it was all over, sive line. Fazio said he was very pleased, 


Defense 
though not satisfied, with his "We have absolutely no charges. 
continued from page 12 depth in the offensive line and 
jury during the scrimmage, that concerns me," Holtz said. "We had some glaring errors though it does not appear to be "We're just not coming along that turned good plays into bad serious. the way we have to in that ones, mostly because of some Perhaps the most serious area." shabby tackling," he said. problem to be exposed in the But the defense is coming "But we took the ball away, created the turnovers and
r-:-----------·--·--------1 
made the big hits. These guys are playing with a lot of confi­
dence. "Last year, we went for the big play all the time and that 

1SENIOR PORTRAIT I 
I 
I SIGN-UPS Ibust us. This year, we want to be more disciplined. That will 
make us more effective." 
PICTURES TO BE TAKEN II 
EXTRA POINTS. . . Senior Ted Gradel and freshman Billy SEPT. 7 THROUGH SEPT. 25 I Hackett are still in the hunt for the kicking job. Hackett hit onI four of six attempts while Gradel connected on three out
Sign up during dinner times I 
of five shots. Reggie Ho had a tough day, making only one of
Iin the North or South Dining /falls I
four attempts ... Vince Phelan has all but won the punting job, according to Holtz.


""------·--··-·------------J 

STODENT ACTMTIES NIGHT 
Tuesday September 1st 
Activities Night Table List SPECIAL INTERESTS: 
Academic:

Stepan Center 7 pm -1 0 pm 
37. Univ. of N.D. Bicycling Club1. Foreign Studies 38. Science Quarterly Magazine 2. Admissions Office 39. Spiritual Rock3. N.D. Sociology Club 

40. Model DAS Club
4. Society of Women Engineers 41. N.D. Juggling Club5. Spanish Club 42. N.D. Entrepreneurial Society 6. Psychology Club 43. Thomas More Society7. NDSMC Prelaw Society 44. NOOMC Fellowship of Christian 
8. 
Math Club Athletes

9. 
Marketing Club 

10. 
League of Black Business Students 45. Knights of Columbus 

11. 
IEEE 46. Knights of the Immaculata 

12. 
Finance Club of N.D. 47. Philippine Club 

13. 
American Society of Mechanical MEDIA: Engineers 

14. 
NDCBA Advisory Council Investment 48. Dome Club 49. Juggler


71-"B 

15. ICTHUS 50. Scholastic 
51. WSND-FM
16. 
Debate Club 69&70. The Observer

17. 
Toastmasters 


ATHLETIC (NVA): ::t­
Ethnic 52. Univ. of N.D. Rowing Club
61 -E,8

o 
53. Men's Volleyball51-58 

19. Le Cercle Francais 54. N.D. Women's Track Club 
20. 
N.D. Japan Club 55. Women's Fastpltch Softball 

21. 
American Lebanese Club 57. ND Ski Team 

22. 
I.S.O. 58. Boxing Club 


59. Gymnastics Club ..., ­
SERVICE-SOCIAL ACTION: 60. ND Judo Club MISC.: 

~· -'!18 
23. Student Union Board 61. Tech Review
30 
24. 
Women United for Justice and Peace 62. Hawaii Club 

25. 
World Hunger Coalition 63. Right-to-Life 

26. 
Volunteers for the Overnight Shelter 64. Women's Care Center


J.9 
Homeless 
27. Volunteers for N.I.S.D.C. 
100's (DEMO'S): 
,, • 18 
28. STEP 
19  Et~  to  
;)0  _1\c.-ade.t'II\C  9  

29. SAVE 
100. NOOMC Ballroom Dance Club 
30. Pax Christl-N.D. 
101. WVFI-AM 
31. Overseas Development Network 102. Voices of FalthGospeiEnsembl32. Neighborhood Study Help Program 103. Shenanigans33. CILA 104. Collegiate Choir
I-8 

34. Big Bro. and Big Sisters of NDSMC 105. N.D. Chapel Choir 35. Amnesty International 106. AIESEC 
36. ADOPT-A-NUN 107. N.D. Tai Kwan Do Club 
AP Pholo 

New York Yankee Mike Pagliarulo looks worried as he fields this ground ball. Yankee tans may worry also after seeing the AL East standings below. 

Baseball standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaet Eaat 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB St. Louis 78 51 . 605 Detroit n 51 .602 Montreal 73 56 .566 5 toronto 77 53 .592 1 IJew York 73 57 .562 5.5 New York 73 57 .562 5 Philadelphia 67 63 .515 11.5 Milwaukee 70 60 .538 8 Chicago 65 64 .504 13 Boston 62 67 .481 15.5 Pittsburgh 59 71 .454 19.5 Baltimore 59 71 .454 19 
West Cleveland 50 81 .382 28.5 
We at San Francisco 69 62 .527 Houston 65 65 .500 3.5 Minnesota 69 63 .523 Cincinnati 64 67 .489 5 Oakland 67 63 .515 1 Atlanta 56 73 .434 12 Kansas City 65 65 .500 3 Los Angeles 56 73 .434 12 Callfomia 65 66 .496 3.5 San Diego 54 76 .415 14.5 Seattle 61 69 .469 7 
Texas 61 69 .469 7 Chicago 54 75 419 13.5 
Sunday's Reaulta Sunday'• Raaulto Pittsburgh 7, Houston 0 Toronto 13, Oakland 3 Chicago 3, Cincinnati 1 New York 4, Seattle 1 St. Louis 4, Atlanta 3 Boston 7, Cleveland 3 Montreal 5, Los Angeles 4 Calilom1a 6, Baltimore 2 San Diego 6, Philadelphia 1 Kansas City 11, Chicago 7 New York 5, San Francisco 3 Minnesota 10, Milwaukee 6 
Detroit 7, Texas 0 

Monday, August 31, 1987 

page 10 The Observer 



Cardinals rally for 4-3 win 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS-Jose Oquendo's suicide squeeze bunt scored Jack Clark with one out and the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth as St. Louis rallied for three runs in the inning to beat the Atlanta Braves 4-3 Sunday, the Cardinals' fifth straight victory. 
Trailing 3-1, Jim Acker, 1-6, came on to start the St. Louis ninth and gave up doubles to Vince Coleman and Terry Pendleton to pull the Cardinals within a run. After Clark walked, Paul Assenmacher relieved and Willie McGee doubled home Pendleton to tie the score. 
Reliever Gene Garber 
walked pinch-hitter Tommy 
Herr to load the bases and 
Oquendo bunted back to the 
mound as Clark broke for Law and Mike Fitzgerald's bunt single. 
Casey Candaele hit a sacrifice fly off reliever Tim Crews and Johnson, batting for winning pitcher Jeff Parrett, 5­5, doubled to right scoring Law and pinch-runner Pascual Perez. 
Mets 5, Giants 3 
SAN FRANCISCO -Gary Carter hit his 11th career grand slam to cap a five-run first in­ning as the New York Mets beat the San Francisco Giants 5-3 Sunday. 
Rick Aguilera, 6-2, made only his second start after coming off the disabled list following strained ligaments in his right elbow. He allowed three runs on nine hits in 8 2-3 innipgs. 
Cubs 3, Reds 1 
CINCINNATI -Andre Daw­son hit a two-run homer and a run-scoring single as the Chicago Cubs beat the Cincin­nati Reds 3-1 Sunday to spoil the pitching debut of Dennis Rasmussen. 
Dawson hit his 43rd home run of the season in the sixth in­ning, giving him 115 RBI for the year to surpass his career high of 113 set with the Montreal Expos in 1983. Daw­son's homer scored Ryne Sandberg, who reached on a single. 
Rasmussen, 0-1, was ac­quired from the New York Yankees last week in a trade for pitcher Tom Gullickson. He allowed four hits in six innings and struck out seven. 
•..·r</~ 
.;, .·,1 
AP Photo 

Ozzle Smith of the St. Louis Cardinals hurdles New York Met Kevin McReynolds In action earlier this season. Summaries of the Car­dinals win and other NL action yesterday Is at left. 




01t1EKTAL E~PRE55 
ErJ.ioy a unique experience in 
oriental dining. 

Fresh Ingredients No Mass Productions 
6.329 University Commons South Bend IN 277-6702 

home. Garber fielded the bunt but could not make a play as the Cardinals sent the Braves to their fourth straie;ht defeat. 
Dodgers 5, Expos 4 
LOS ANGELES -Pinch­hitter Wallace Johnson drove in the tying and winning runs with a two-out double in the ninth inning Sunday as Montreal beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-4 for the Expos' fifth straight victory. 
Trailing 4-2, the Expos loaded the bases for the third time against Fernando Valen­zuela, 11-12, on Reid Nichols' single, a one-out walk to Vance 
NANCY BRADSHAW HAPPY BIRTHDAY 


With all. my love, 
Me 


r 





THEODORE'S GRAND RE-OPENING WEEKEND FRI & SAT SEPT 4& 5 
2nd floor Lafortune 
• •

8:00 P.M.-2:00 A.M. 



The Observer page 11 




Freshmen 
Rere's a great way to: 
•

• 
Know what's really going on on campus 

• 
Maybe even make some money 


Check out our offices on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. You could be part of the staff of over 200 students who bring The Observer to the entire Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. We need reporters, photog­raphers, production personnel, even copy editors. Many freshmen hold key positions each year at The Observer. Be one of them. 
Campus 
7 p.m.: Accountancy Placement Night, sponsored by Career and Placement Services for Accountancy major seniors. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 7 p.m. and 9:15p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Citizen Kane," directed by Orson Wells. Annenberg Auditorium. Free. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Hot Pastrami Roast Beef Fried Perch Spaghetti Chicken Stir Fry Chef Salad Cheese Souffle Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Most sincere 7 Time periods 
11 Draft org. 14 Pitcher 15 Pleasant 16 Singultus 
sound 17 Existing from 
birth 18 Hebrides Isle 19 Yoko ­20 Cozy abode 21 Time past 24 A Ford 26 Dye chemical 27 Longest Fr. 
river 30 Part of a trip 32 Pesticide 33 Plsclvorous 
bird 34 Omissions 37 God of love 40 lt. resort 42 Wonderful 44 Blackthorn 45 Cloth leg 
support 47 Scot's no 48 Animal doc 50 Gr. letter 51 Omens 53 "-porridge 
cold" 55 Herbage' 57 Steps In 60 Hideaway 64 Hawaiian 
neckplece 65 -avis 66 Athens' rival 68 One of a Latin 
trio 69 Nothing but 70 Hemingway 71 Danish Island 72 Certain breads 73 "As old and 
tired as ­newspaper" 
DOWN 1 Slender 2 Old alphabet 
character 3 Samovars 
©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
4 Click beetle 5 Matched 
collection 6 Playing cards 7 Encloses by 
water 8 Uproar 9 Skin disorder 
10 Burned 11 Little money 12 OT mount 13 Sneer 22 Burbot 23 Sing In the 
Alps 25 Omit 27 Smaller 
amount 

28 Nuncupative 29 New thing 31 Motion 35 Elec. unit 36 Take to court 38 Muscat and ­39 Observes 41 Brooklyn 
shortstop 
43 HST's wife 
46 Times for fund collecting 
49 Fright 
52 Manhattan Is one 
53 Rice dish 
54 Foe 
DB/31/87 56 Valuable Item 58 Like rattan 59 A Gardner 61 Space 
62 --bltsy 63 Rodents 67 -rata 

Comics 
Bloom County 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



Mark Williams 
IWO PAYB£PS ANP 
!!aSTERS.-THAT's tr7 I 


"Man, this Is havin' no effect. ... But It the boss wants this varmint dragged through the desert, I ain't gonna argue." 

Beer Nuts 

W£U. THAT fX{.5 IT AJ YOIJ JJM/Ml H£LP M£ Tllf£ ltU fl./[ JUNK /XJJJN To 
...,. 1IAALL 5TORA&[,
. CORKY? sJR£' 
~ " 
............................................................................_......... 
What's Happening this Week: i "Raw Deal" "We Can Make You Laugh." "The Fly" i 
: Wednesday & Thursday Friday Night Friday & Saturday : 7, 9, 11 pm 8:00 pm 7, 9, 11 pm 
....................................................................................
• 

Irish drop Southern Illinois 
Defense holds strong in second scrimmage game 
in volleyball season 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team opened its 1987 season in impressive fashion yesterday afternoon, sweeping three straight games from Southern Illinois, 15-3, 15-8, 15-10. 
Showing no signs of rustiness in the opening game, the Irish alternated short and long serves while controlling both sides of the net. They jumped out to a quick 7-0 lead and proceeded to finish off the Salukis in less than 15 minutes. In the first game, Notre Dame tallied a near-flawless kill percentage of .733, successfully connecting on 12-of-15 at­tempts. 
Southern Illinois took its only lead of the afternoon at the out­set of the second game, al­though the 1-0 lead was short­lived. A long volley featuring 
By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
If defense wins football games and championships, the Notre Dame football team ap­pears to be on its way to a suc­cessful year. 
If, however, the team that makes the fewest mistakes usually comes out on top, the Irish could be in for a long year. 
Either view can be held after numerous fumbles and penalties highlighted Notre Dame's second scrimmage of the fall. But afterwards, most 
• 

the strongest spike of the day by Zanette Bennett ended with a kill by Maureen Shea that put the Irish up 3-1 and fed the fire for a 15-8 win. 
En route to its second win, Notre Dame showed signs of the inconsistency that periodi­cally plagued the Irish early last season. 
"We played down to their level today," said Notre Dame head coach Art Lambert. "In one word, we were sporadic. The tempo was good, then bad, then good, then bad. 
"It's good to get it out of our syst~m now in the first game," added Lambert. "But the way we played today just won't cut it later on. The Hoosier Classic next weekend won't be a stroll in the park." 
In the third and final game, the Irish again jumped out to a quick 11-2 lead behind the kills of sophomore Kathy Cun­
opener 
ningham, who finished the day with a game high 12 kills. The Salukis made a final run at the Irish, closing the gap to 13-10 before a Mary Kay Waller­Amy White block and a Waller service ace iced the cake and completed the sweep of South­ern Illinois. 
Despite the periodic lapses, Notre Dame's defense dominated the nets, with 22 kills to only !I kills for the Salukis. Taryn Collins again proved to be a steady per­former at the setter position with 22 assists. 
"We have a long way to go," said Lambert of the young season. "The key to improving for us will be getting in synch early in a game and keeping the tempo up throughout." 
The Irish head to Kathy Cunningham registers one of her many kills In the Notre Bloomington next weekend for Dame volleyball team's victory yesterday over Southern llllr.il!~. the Hoosier Classic Brian O'Gara highlights the game at left. 

-~--­

Sports
Monday, August 31, 1987 page 12 
We stayed on the sidelines and let them call their own signals and just let them play." 
While the defense took the spotlight, the offense also had some positive moments. 
Each quarterback used had some success, but each also showed the need for more work before the opener. Leading the way, starter Terry Andrysiak completed 8 of 14 passes for 76 yards, Tony Rice hit on 4 of 5 attempts for 26 yards, almost exclusively on rollout passes and Kent Graham connected on 9 out of 13 for 66 yards. 
Tickets sales start today 
GATE 3 ---,--.,.,;_GA...;TE 4 GATE 5 G.A.;;,TE;;_;6.....---..::GATE 7 
Je 1 7~'(i;~CD CD CD~CD ® ® ® @~~~~
GA ~CD" , , , , , , , , ,~@~GA1E9 
-" ® 
~ ~ 
o::·p 
i I $ ""@ 

'""'~~~~ ~~~~~~~\!="\tl~~ ~wMO,
GATE 16'-/( ) \_./GATE 12 GATE 15 G..:; • 4 GATE 13 -~ 
Special to The Observer E 1 
Students ticket sales begin today with seniors purchas­
ing their tickets. 
Students are asked to bring thier application, remittance 
and ID card to Gate 10 of file ACC on the day specified 
for each class. One student may: present a maximum of 
four (4) applications and ID caras. Married students wis­
hing to purchase a ticket for their spouse must show proof 
of marriage. The ticket for a spouse is the same price as 
a student ticket. 
Student football ticket applications have been sent to all 
students with a campus orlocal address. If you have not 
yet received your application or if the class status pre­
printed on your application is incorrect~ you are askea to 
come to the Ticket Office on the secono floor of the ACC 
prior to your designated class issue day. 
Seniors: Monday, August 31 Juniors: Tuesday, September 1 Sophomores: Wednesday, September 2 Freshmen: Thursday, September 3 
Tim Brown led the Irish receivers with six receptions for 70 yards, while rookies Frank Jacobs, Ricky Watters and Tony Brooks each grabbed three apiece. 
Fullback Pernell Taylor and quarterback Steve Belles led the rushing attack with 51 yards, with Mark Green adding 
48. Sophomore fullback Braxston Banks sat out the scrimmage with a shoulder in­jury and classmate Anthony Johnson sustained an ankle in-
see DEFENSE, page 9 

of the credit went to the defense. 
"That was a very hard­hitting scrimmage," Holtz said. "The defense played well in its entirety. They just did an awful lot of good things. 
"Offensively, we played well physically, but we had too many penalties and put the ball on the ground too often. A lot of that was due to the hitting, but it's hard to determine if it's one (poor offense) or the other (good defense)." 
The defense received solid ef­forts from nearly every posi­tion. The line was able to pres­sure the various passers throughout the day and outside linebacker Darrell Gordon of­ten met them in the offensive backfield. Gordon also added an interception of a tipped Kent Graham pass. 
Ned Bolcar contributed numerous hard shots for the defense, which was given a lot of freedom. "We let them on their own," said defensive co­ordinator Foge Fazio said. "We wanted this to be as game-like as possible, like it was Mic­higan lining up across the line. 
Outside linebacker Darrell "Flash" Gordon takes Rick Rietbrock details the game and the progress a look over the line of scrimmage In the football of the Irish in his story above. team's second scrimmage of the fall on Saturday. 
The ObserveoGreg Kohs 



