---~---.---­
IACCENT: Funny business 
IVIEWPOINT: Racial understanding needed 



VOL. XXI, NO. 21 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

U.S. air attack on Iranian gunboats called 'defensive' 
Associated Press judged to be "hostile." Both missiles missed. 
MANAMA, Bahrain -An Monday night's episode was Iranian ship suspected of the closest that the two laying mines in the Persian countries have come to combat Gulf was attacked by a U.S. since the United States started helicopter Monday night, the escorting reflagged Kuwaiti Reagan administration said, tankers in August. and Iranian gunboats am­The U.S. attack was not in bushed a British-flag tanker, the same area as that on the leaving tw.c crewmen missing. British tanker Gentle Breeze, 
The Iranian ship Iran Ajr which was set ablaze by was set on fire after the U.S. Iranian gunboats about 100 attack, but the blaze was extin­miles north of Bahrain. The guished, and the ship was left attack on the Gentle Breeze oc­"dead in the water," according curred hours after the Gas to White House and Pentagon Prince, one of 10 Kuwaiti spokesmen. tankers reflagged by the 
United States, was reported to 
The attack by a helicopter have moved from the offshore from the USS Jarrett was des­loading terminal where it had cribed as "defensive" after the been moored for most of last Iranian vessel was discovered week. to be laying mines in interna­That could indicate it was to tional waters about 50 miles make a southbound trip down northeast of Bahrain, said the gulf under U.S. navy escort. White House spokesman Mar­The location of the 46,723-ton lin Fitzwater. liquefied gas tanker Gas 
Gulf shipping sources and Prince at the time of Monday radio monitors said they had night's attack was not known. Preparing for Jane and Dick? no information on the U.S. at­Shipping officials in Kuwait, 
tack, the first against Iran asking not to be named, con­A workman continues the painstaking restoration since Aug. 8, when a Navy F-14 firmed that the Gas Prince had of the Sacred Heart Church. Restoration work has Tomcat fighter fired two mis­left the anchorage but declined been In progress for several months. Most of the siles at an Iranian jet that was to sav where it was. 

Hotpot causes McCandless Hall fire, $2000 damage 
Chlebek, director of Saint He said he will file a report closed the door," said Flynn. ''I didn't even hear the smoke By CINDY HAU 
Mary's Security. Because to be turned into the adminis­She then called security, pulled alarm. I saw my room full of
News Staff 
Saint Mary's does not have a tration. The administration the alarm and yelled at the stu­smoke and thought Anne (her A fire broke out in a dorm fire department of its own, the will then decide if any will be dents in her section to get out roommatE!) was still in there. room at Saint Mary's McCand­call was also routed to the taken. of the building. Molly thought Anne was prob­
less Hall early Monday mor­Notre Dame fire department Molly Flynn, a resident ad­Anne Korson and Beth ably already out of the dorm ning forcing two women out of which arrived shortly there­visor on the floor, was LaPres, the occupants of the and told me to leave the build­their third floor room and into after, Chlebek said. awakened by a student who room, were both in the shower ing. When I got outside I temporary student housing. The fire was caused by a mal-heard a smoke alarm going off when the fire started. couldn't find Anne," said 
No one was in the room at functioning hotpot, said in the room. Flynn went to the LaPres got out of the shower LaPres. the time. Chlebek. room of the fire, felt the door and saw her room full of When Flynn realized Korson "The call came in at about "Damages to the room are for heat and then opened it. smoke. was still in the building she 
7:45 a.m., and we responded estimated at about $2000," ac­"Black smoke came pouring Flynn, her resident advisor, immediately," said Richard cording to Chlebek. out of the room, and I quickly told her to leave the dorm. see FIRE, page 3 
Computer lottery to distribute 250 tickets to Purdue 
By GREG LUCAS the SUB, said Blount, adding rectly involved in the planning action regarding the problem break up a party in order to that members of the SUB steer­of an event should not automat­of off campus crime. protect the privacy of other
Senior Staff Reporter 
ing committee and some mem­ically be given preferential Evers said that off-campus South Bend residents. "It 
At the Student Senate byrs of the Senate are currently treatment on the basis of their students are currently organiz­shocks me that they can't meeting Monday night, Janel working on a new generalized position. ing a crime watch including a mobilize a similar body to Blount, Student Union Board policy for ticket distribution. "The proposal as written phone network and neighbor­protect life and property" said director, announced that the The Senate decided to form gives a distinct advantage to hood patrolling. Yeager. SUB will be in charge of ticket a joint committee with the SUB SUB" said Brian Holst, student 
A Senate subcommittee is
distribution for the Purdue to amend the ticket distribution senator. In other news, the Senate
presently working on an in­
game. policy that was submitted by unanimously passed a motion,
formational packet, to be sent
According to Blount, the 250 Blount Monday night. The Senate agreed that no proposed by Holst, to have sen­
to all off-campus students later 
tickets that have been all­The Senate was not able pas& preferential tickets should be ate members volunteer to work 
this fall, said Pat Cooke, stu­
ocated for Notre Dame stu­the proposal as written because alloted for board members for a two hour shift as a good will 
dent body president. 
dents will be distributed in a of disputes over the validity of any event where the SUB runs gesture to William Hickey, computer run lottery to be held allowing board commissioners the ticket distribution for an­The Senate also decided to director of food services, in 
Wednesday from 11 a.m. until receive complimentary or other organization or where the draft a letter to the chief of response to the recent food riot. 2 p.m. in the basement of preferential tickets to SUB SUB is not a primary sponsor police in South Bend to convey LaFortune. sponsored and co-sponsored of the event. student concerns with off­"We're doing it because what 
No preferential or com­events. In other business, Sean campus crime. the student body did was plimentary tickets will be Mike Yeager said that SUB Evers, off-campus commis­Yeager noted that the police wrong, and we're taking re­received by any members of commissioners who are not di-sioner, urged the Senate to take can mobilize a large force to sponsibility" said Holst. 

-------~ ~~­
page 2 


Of Interest 
Purdue ticket lottery sign-ups will take place Wed. Sept. 23 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the "Old Cellar" in the LaFortune Student Center basement. Sign-up is limited to one chance per person with a student ID. The 250 win~ers will be posted outside of the Old Cellar Wednesday mght or Thursday morning. The tickets can be picked up at the JACC ticket office from 1 to 4 p.m. on Thursday only. -The Observer 
Students and staff attending the Inauguration Ceremony at 2 p.m. on Wednesday are asked to follow these instructions. Those approaching from the North side of campus are asked to walk between Decio and the Snite (down Old Juniper Road), avoiding the library mall. Please do not walk down Juniper Road. Proceed around the west side of the football stadium, and enter the Joyce ACC through Gate 10. Those approaching from anywhere else on campus should also avoid the library mall and follow around the west side of the stadium, and into gate 10 of the ACC. This will facilitate a smooth procession. 
-The Observer 
The parking lot behind South Dining Hall will be closed all day today, according to Security, and will reopen Wednesday. The faculty parking circle just north of the stadium will be closed today and Wednesday. The library circle will be closed to all vehicular traffic Wednesday. Drivers on Juniper Road should expect traffic delays all day Wednesday and are urged to make plans for alternate routes. -The Observer 
Red Cross Volunteers for Inauguration Day events: there will be two shifts, shift A working 9:30-1 p.m., and shift B working 1-5 p.m. Meet at the first aid room of the ACC (enter gate 6) before your shift. Call Pete at 277-6631 to work. -The Observer 
University Co~nseling Cente~ ~s sponsoring the first session of Eatmg Awareness Trammg tomorrow ~t 6:30p.m. in room 300 of the St~dent Hea~th ~~nter. This is the first of three sessions designed for mdividuals con­cerned about their own eating habits or those of someone they care about. The first session focuses on ~roblem iden­tification and assessment. The speaker will be Nancy Schoeneman, M.A. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in touring the Magnetic Resonance Imaging Facility in South Bend should meet in 123 Nieuwland at 7 p.m. Transportation will be provided. 
-The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes meets this evening at 8: 15 p.m. in the multi-purpose room of the Center for Social Concerns. Father Leveille will address the group. Discussion will follow. -The Observer 
Seniors interested in Law School should attend the second part of the personal statement seminar at 7 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The seminar is sponsored by the Nl}SMC Pre-Law Society. -The Observer 
Overseas Development Network will be holding an organizational meeting at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns with an open Coffee House to follow from 8-11 
p.m. -The Observer 
Stress Management, thethirdeventofthe University Counseling Center workshop series, will be presented by Dr. Timothy Onkka at 6:30p.m. in the Notre Dame room in LaFortune. This will be a lecturetliscussion focusing on how personal interpretations of yourself and your world are principle sources of stress. -The Observer 
Washington Seminar Organizational meeting will be at 6:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
"Changing Church, Chan~ing People," a live broadcast panel discussion by Gofden Dome Productions, is broadcasting their final installment tonight. Students are welcome to participate in a discussion of the recent papal visit. Audience members are requested to arrive at the WNDU studios at 7:30p.m. -The Observer 

Design Editor . Mark McLaughlin Design Assistant . . . . . . . . Michelle Dall Layout staff........................... Katie Gleason .......................................... Annette Rowland Typesetters ..................... Becky Gunderman ................................................. Daniel Cahlll News Editor .................................. Jim Riley .................................................. Cathy Stacy Copy Editor ............................ Matt Crowley ................................................. Tim O'Keefe 
Sports Copy Editor ..................... Pete Gegen ............................................ Steve Megargee Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Matt Slaughter Viewpoint Layout.... Richelle Aschenbrenner Accent Copy Editor .................... ~isa Young Typists ................................. Jennifer Conlon NO Day Editor ...................... Kathy McKee ................................................. Karin Rader Photographer ............................... Pat Kusel ............................................ John Stucebaker 
De o..ner (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq eum and vacation periods. neOlleerrer is publis~ ~Y the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscripllons may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina De OlllerYer, P.O. Boll Q, Notre Dame, lodiana 46SS6. 
ne OlllerYer is • member of ne ~led 1'181. All reproduction riahts are raerved. 
........---~---------~--~----~~ 
/
Tuesday, September 22, 1987
The Observer 

Flag football touches the heart of ND tradition 
It's a cold evening, but the crowd doesn't notice. 
Standing on their feet, they anticipate a big play. The opponents have fourth down, and drop into punt formation. 
The kick is deep, and it is caught on the 28 yard line. A few moves and fakes later, it's in the end zone. 
A 72-yard punt return for a touchdown. The crowd goes wild. The team mobs their punt returner, cheering as loudly as they can. 
I tell you, if Tim Brown had been there, he would have cheered when Tammy Goodwin returned that punt for Farley's Finest. I mean, that girl has moves that would have left Mic­higan State's defense sitting on their collective behinds. 
Heck, she might even be good enough to fake out Walsh's defense. 
I am a flag football maniac. I turned down an opportunity to type Security Beat every Sun­day, Tuesday, and Thursday just because it con­flicted with my flag football schedule. 
I even dropped one of my MWF classes so that I'd have less to study at halftime. 
I have to admit that there is a reason why I am such a flag football nut. You see, my girlfriend is one of Farley's defensive end. 
Sure, she's not as big as William Perry or as mean as Eric Dorsey, but when she comes flying down that field, you had better watch your flags. 
In that game that Tammy outran Tim Brown's longest return of the day before, my girlfriend had two sacks, and she stopped a run for a loss. 
If you have never witnessed a flag football game at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, you really ought to go to one. These are ordinary girls, the ones with curtains in their windows, match­ing bed covers, secret ice cream cravings, and the rare ability to scope during all 21 meals on the meal plan. 
But, heavens, they play football which would make Knute himself smile. From the very beginning of the school year, flag football is a hot topic : 
"Can Farley repeat without Marilu?" 
"How good will Lyons be?" 
"Will Howard's team be better than they were last year?" 
Questions, discussions, boasts. It doesn't stop. Practice every afternoon. Drills, drills, drills. Rumor has it that Pasquerilla West tried to recruit linebackers from Lewis by offering cars and SYR dates. I think the NCAA is investigat­ing. 


Now, I don't want people to think that I am belittling flag football. It does wonders for hall spirit. 
Most importantly, it carries on a tradition at a school that absolutely loves football. We watch the Irish on Saturday, the guys dorms on Sunday afternoons, and the women on the astroturf of Cartier field on Saturday. 
In Howard, flag football may build a sense of dorm spirit before anything else does. For example, Howard doesn't have a hall president yet, but they have a quarterback. 
After the first round of games, perennial powers P.E., Farley, Lyons, and B.P. were 1-0. P.W., Lewis, Howard, and Walsh all stand at 0-1. Badin opens their season tonight. 
Flag football is probably the most intense inter-hall sport on campus. 
But more importantly, it is fun. I always kid my girlfriend that she won't have fun if Farley doesn't win it all again, but she knows she will. 
But as she says, it will be a lot more fun if they win. Intense, but fun. That's Notre Dame flag football for you. 
Well, I've got to go. I've got to take a nap so that I can watch flag football tonight. Or did they go on strike? Who knows, maybe the Irish Guard will show up. 
Regardless, Go Farley. 
Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 

When You're Pregnant, Don't Smoker 
Saving 

babies is 

our goal! 


SUB & Theodore's 
September 26, II II 


9illm
I II 

Theo ore's 
All campus bands interested in competing contact Maura Colleton at 239-7757 or 283-2745 by September 25. 
.---------------­
Tuesday, September 22, 1987 The Observer page 3 


Three 'victory' parties busted 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO underage drinking at the ad­rested for public intoxication dress, Cottrell added. and disorderly conduct. 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Police broke up two more Cottrell noted that police 
Three parties were broken up parties Saturday morning, he were "pretty active" Friday by South Bend Police this past added. A party at 734 N. St. night, receiving five additional weekend, Capt. Patrick Cot­Louis St. was broken up at 12:55 calls of loud parties. The par­trell said Monday. a.m., and a party at 713 Rex ties were not broken up since 
A party at 203 E. Navarre St. St. was stopped at 3:25a.m. they did not violate the city was broken up at 11:20 p.m. noise ordinance. Friday, and the residence Both residences were issued The police received "a lot" issued a citation for violation noise citations, Cottrell said. of calls about loud parties Sat­
of the city's noise ordinance, At the Rex Street party, two urday night, Cottrell noted, but Cottrell said. people were arrested for public none of these parties were One person was arrested for intoxication and another ar-"really out of hand." 
Civil rights leaders reject Bark 


Associated Press  stead of becoming the first black elected to Congress from  to have an wood said.  abortion,"  Pack­ 
WASHINGTON -Civil rights  Atlanta  in  more  than  100  The  Democratic-controlled  
leaders on  Monday urged the  years."  Senate is sharply divided over  

Senate to reject the nomination The mayor, who was ambas­Bork's nomination, with 
.;·.· 

of Robert Bork to the Supreme sador to the United Nations in leaders saying the outcome of Court, with Atlanta Mayor the Carter administration, said the battle is too close to call. A Andrew Young attacking him he agrees with Bork's charac­final Senate roll call is not ex­as ''a protector of privilege and terization of himself as being pected until October. power rather than opportunity neither liberal nor conserva­Bork, named by President and freedom." tive. Reagan to succeed retired Jus­
Had Bork's views prevailed "He is neither. He is an ex­tice Lewis Powell, testified for in the United States, Young tes­tremist whose zealous dog­a grueling five days last week tified, "Dr. Martin Luther King matic view of the world allows --a record for a Supreme Court Jr. would not be a venerated na­him to travel many ration­nominee. tional hero. He would instead alized paths to his negative Leading off the opposition 
be serving a jail sentence in Al­ends," Young said. 
abama." 
Waiting in the wings as theYoung, a former aide to committee began its second
The Observei1Susy Hemandez King, told the Senate Judiciary 
week of hearings on the BorkCommittee: "I might have nomination were supporters of 
Repairs were started after a fire In Saint Mary's McCandless Hall been branded a terrorist and 
the federal appeals court
Monday morning. The damage, estimated to be close to $2000, was jailed for my participation in 
judge.

caused by a faulty hotpot. Story on page 1. the civil rights movement in-
Meanwhile, Sen. Bob Pack­wood, R-Ore., who is not a member of the committee, said 

LaRouche jury selection begins 
at a Capitol Hill news confer­ence he will vote to deny con­
by strict tund-raising quotas fraud for allegedly making the 
Associah•d Press firmation after the issue
for his 1984 presidential cam­illegal credit card charges by 
reaches the full Senate. 
BOSTON -Jury selection paign, raised more than $1 mil­telephone and three of them are began Monday for the trial of lion by submitting charges ran­charged with mail fraud for al­Packwood said Bork's political extremist Lyndon ging from $45 to $2,000 to the legedly securing the loans. restrictive view of privacy LaRouche, five of his organiza­accounts of more than 2,000 
rights threatens women's right tions and seven aides on federal credit card holders without get­One organization also is to abortion, established by the charges that they raised more ting permission. 
charged with contempt of court Supreme Court in 1973. "He will than $1 million through credit LaRouche organizations also for refusing to comply with sub­do everything he can to reverse card fraud and then conspired allegedly solicited loans total­poenas. the right of an individual wo­to obstruct an investigation. ing millions of dollars, never man to choose whether or not 
Six other LaRouche aidesLaRouche, who has espoused intending to repay them. 
also are charged in the 125­theories of world conspiracies LaRouche, the five organiza­count indictment, but three are
involving the Queen of En­tions and the seven aides all are 

Fire

fugitives and three were
gland, former Secretary of charged with conspiring to granted separate trials. continued from page 1
State Henry Kissinger and the obstruct justice by destroying Soviet Union, has said the in­records, refusing to comply went back inside. 
One of the defendants whose 
dictment was prompted by a with court orders and ordering Flynn crawled into the room
trial has been severed, Richard 
Reagan administration plot to fund-raisers to leave the and felt the beds for Korson,
Black, is a Boston mayoral can­
ruin him politically. country to avoid questioning. but the beds were both empty. 
didate.
The government alleges that Four of the organizations "Security arrived with a fire 
LaRouche's supporters, driven also are charged with wire LaRouche faces up to five extinguisher and told me to years in prison and a $250,000 leave. When I was leaving the fine if convicted. dorm, I saw Anne leaving too. 
CHARLEVOIX PRODUCTIONS presents 

FRIDAY, 
SEPT. 25 
8:00P.M. 
NOTRE DAME 
OVER ADfCADE < 


J.A.C.C. 
OF HITS ALL IN 
ONE NIGHT 

TICKETS: 515.50 

witnesses on Monday was William Coleman Jr., who was transportation secretary in the Ford administration and now is chairman of the NAACP Le­gal Defense Fund. 
The senators spent more than two hours with Coleman, the first of scores of scheduled witnesses this week and next. 
Coleman urged defeat of. Bork as a man whose views could turn back the clock on gains for individual privacy, minorities and women. 
She said Bork "disagreed with the principle of one-man, one-vote.'' She added that with­out help from the high court, "I would be running my 11th unsuccessful race for the Texas House of Representatives." 
I was so glad I finally found her and she was safe," said Flynn. 
"My first reaction was panic. I had smelled smoke while I was in the shower, but I didn't think anything of it. No one was left in the hallways, and the dorm was full of smoke," said Korson. 
"The students reacted ex­actly as instructed," said Christine Benvenuto, residence director at McCandless. "We have fire drills and floor evacuation plans posted in each room for just this pur­pose," she added. 
Each section in the dorm is to meet at a designated place outside the dorm where the floor fire marshall takes atten­dance, Benvenuto said. 
"We don't have the time in an actual fire to key in to every room. Instead, we pound loudly on each door and use the atten­dance system as a check. If someone is unaccounted for, we go back into the building and look in that particular room," she said. 
"We're having a meeting tonight in McCandless to raise awareness and alleviate fears and rumors. This is where everyone's living, and they have a right to know," said 
Benvenuto.
ON SALE J.A.C.C. Box Office, SEARS (UP Mall. Elkhart); 
"We're doing everything we
ST. JOE BANK (Main Office); NIGHTWINDS (No. Village 
can for the girls. Their room is
Mall, Niles); ELKHART TRUTH; SUPER SOUNDS (Elk­
being repainted, their clothes
hart); J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (LaPorte); MUSIC MAGIC 
are being dry-cleaned, and
(Benton Harbor). 
everyone is giving them sup­
CHARGE By Phone (219) 239-7356 
port. We want them to know that we'll be here for them," she said. 





ttbt lfnaugutatton 
~tpttmbtt 23, t9S7 
The Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Student Government requests the honor of your presence at the Inauguration of Reverend Edward A. Malloy of the Congregation of Holy Cross as the sixteenth President of the University of Notre Dame 
10:00 am Inaugural Mass Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
3:00pm Academic Convocation Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
5:30pm Student Reception South Quad 
ALL STUDENTS -GRAD AND UNDERGRAD ARE INVITED 



Tuesday, September 22, 1987 

The Observer page 5 
Biden graduated near bottom, not top, of law class 
Hahn testifies before 


Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -A "drained and tired" Jessica Hahn testified Monday before a federal grand jury probing the PTL ministry, answering questions about her sexual liaison with Jim Bakker and the subsequent payoff that led to the TV evangelist's downfall. 
"I'm just really drained and tired," she said during a lunch break. "I want it all to be over. I also want to cooperate." 
She said she "will do whatever needs to be done" as the probe proceeds. 
She added that she was "just trying to be as truthful as I can be" in her testimony about a 1980 tryst with Bakker and sub­
sequent  payments  she  
received.  
The  sexual  encounter  oc­ 

curred in a Florida motel room when Hahn was 21. 
The grand jury is looking into allegations of misconduct at PTL, from which Bakker resigned last March after the 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Joe Biden claimed during a cam­paign appearance in New Hampshire last spring that he finished in the top half of his law school class, although records indicate he finished near the bottom. 
In a videotape aired by the public service cable network C­SPAN several months ago, the Delaware Democrat was asked at a campaign stop in Claremont, N.H., on April 3 about what law school he atten­ded and how well he did. 
On the videotape, a clearly angered Biden told the ques­tioner: ''I think I probably have a much higher IQ than you do. 
WANTf:D USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
21.3-422-2812 
f.ARLY AM OR C:V~NINOS 
COUNSELINE 
Volunteers WantedI!! 
We're in operation again 
but a bit short-handed for now. We still have a few 2 hour shifts to fill. So, if ... 
-You want to help prov~de a valuable community service to ND/SMC 
· You can spare just a couple of hours 
of easy volunteer work In a nice study envlronmnet (the number and manner of handling calls Is rarely demanding) -You could use something extra to 
look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask for Tim at the University 
Counseling Center or just leave a 
message. 239-7336. 

"The first year in law school, I decided I didn't want to be in law school and ended up in the bottom two-thirds of my class, and then decided I wanted to stay and went back to law school and in fact ended up in the top half of my class," he went on. 
But last week Biden released his law school records showing he had graduated 76th in a law school class of 85. The law school transcript also showed he made little progress in class standing through the three­year course, ranking 80 out of 100 in the first semester of the first year, and 79th out of 87 the second semester of his second year. 
Biden has been deviled about questions in the last 10 day . about his law school career and his use of others' words in his speeches without credit. He revealed last week that he com­mitted plagiarism in law school and took a course over to make up for the error. 
In the videotape, Biden went on to say, "I went to (Syracuse) law school on a full academic scholarship." 
The records he released last week indicated he had a $800 scholarship from the school out of a total tuition of $1,620 as well as $1,000 in room and board from his work as a residence adviser in a dorm and student loans. 
"I won the international 





, / ' ! 
3 

The Observe11f'aul Oeechger
A banner day for Grace 

The residents of 611 Grace proudly display the contest. The banner was able to be viewed by work of ~rtthat won the Emerald Society's banner the public last Saturday. 
*Knights of the Castle Men's Hairstyling 
YOU CHOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 

272-0312 277-1691 

DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS Ironwood & St. Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 


incident with Hahn was dis­closed. 
Hahn said she agreed in 1980 to accept $265,000 for her silence, but broke the agree­ment after Bakker mentioned the encounter and the pay­ments stopped. 
Hahn's lawyer, Dominic Bar­bara, said his client received $20,300 before payments stopped. 
Hahn said she posed for semi­nude pictures in Playboy and submitted to an interview with the magazine "to finally tell my side of the story." 
The interview and pictures are due out this week. 
Asked why she posed for the pictures, she said, "When you see the story you'll understand why. The pictures are as im­portant as the story." 
Barbara said he didn't think 
the  Playboy article  and  pic­ 
tures  would  hurt  her  
credibility.  

"You'll have to read the story to understand why she did it," 
moot-court competition . . . I was the outstanding student in the poitical science depart­ment (as an undergraduate) . . . I graduated with three degrees from undergraduate school ... And I'd be delighted to sit back and compare my IQ to yours if you'd like, Frank," Biden told the questioner. 
The tape was aired April 10 and 12 as part of the network's "Road to the White House" se­

jury 

Barbara said. "I don't think it takes away her credibility. You have to keep in perspective that Jessica is 28 years old, and she was seven years younger and a very different person when this all happened." 
Barbara said his client's tes­timony was expected to center on the financial settlement she received rather than the sexual encounter itself. 
"I think most of the tes­timony will be about the events of 1984 and 1985 rather than 1980," Barbara said, adding that the 1980 incident was "in­disputable. Bakker has ad­mitted it." 
The attorney said it "was a very sad thing for her to be here. It's like reliving the whole incident.'' 
Barbara said his client didn't plan to seek more money from 
a  bankruptcy  proceeding  
against  the  Fort  Mill,  S.C.­ 
based PTL.  

The proceeding is being han­dled in Columbia, S.C. 
ries, C-SPAN spokeswoman Nan Gibson said. 
Newsweek magazine said Biden does not mention the moot court competition on his resume, and did not win the po­litical science award at the Uni­versity of Delaware, where he received a single B.A. in poli­tical science and history. 
Biden told the New York Times he was "frustrated" and "angry as hell" about the Newsweek report. 






Viewpoint
page 6 Tuesday, September 22, 1987 
Racial issues require more sensitivity 
During the past two weeks, there has been a great deal of controversy sur­rounding the "Life in Hell" cartoon which appeared in the September lOth edition of Scholastic Magazine. This in­cident has received a variety of responses from the student body and has generated heated debates regard­ing racial issues here at Notre Dame. For the past three years, I have asserted that communication is the pri­mary step towards bridging the gap which exists between minority and 

i white students on this campus. Al­though I would have preferred to see a more positive incident pave the way for such communication, this controversy has at least opened up the forum for discussion. 
Lisa Boykin 
guest column 
There are many issues to consider; however, let's start by examining the cartoon itself. I do not mean to defend the cartoon or the author, Matt Groen­ing. I am merely attempting to get at the heart of what Groening may have intended to express. The cartoonist is supposedly depicting his own success­sion from grammar school to college and satirically relaying the type of narrow-minded teachers he encoun­tered. In the eighth grade caption, the teacher warns Groening that in high school he will encounter gangs, drug pushers, and Negroes. This is the cap­tion which has ignited the controversy. From the tenth and eleventh grade cap­tions, which made reference to the hippy movement and peace demonstra­tions, I gathered that the time period Groening referred to was the late 1960's or early 1970's. Given the context of the entire comic strip, if one were to read the eighth grade alone, which is obvi­ously derogatory, the message would be different. Even though Groening's cartoon may have been referring to the 1960's, it is extremely disturbing that the association of gangs, drug pushers, and blacks are just as prevalent today as it was 20 years ago. There are still narrow-minded individuals who per­petuate these racial stereotypes and un­fortunately there are still individuals who find this type of behavior humorous. This, iri my opinion, is the crux of the issue. 
The debate surrounding Groening's cartoon, however, is not reserved to the 
Doonesbury 
ND community alone. During the sum­mer months, the Oklahoma Gazzette printed the same cartoon and encoun­tered the same reaction. According to the Scholastic editor, she did not know of the Oklahoma Gazzette incident when she approved Groening's cartoon for publication three weeks ago. Once again, I am not defending the Scholas­tic or its decision to print the cartoon. The fact that other people outside of ND have found this cartoon offensive is indicative of a broader social prob­lem. The issues which surround this controversy run much deeper than whe­ther or not the editorial staff of Scholastic exercised bad judgement in allowing the cartoon to be printed. Rac­ism, in all forms, is a reality of Amer­ican society whether we read about it in the Scholastic or not. It occurs in the "real world" and it occurs here at Notre Dame. I doubt that censoring a student magazine will shelter us from that harsh fact. I am not a mind reader, nor do I profess to be; however, this is the sad reality that I'd like to believe Groening attempted to convey. 
Yesterday, I read with great concern the response of two Notre Dame stu­dents to this controversy. What surprised me most was that both stu­dents found the eighth grade portion of the cartoon to be humorous. Although I could see the sad reality of racism tpat Groening unsucessfully attempted to make light of, I found no humor what­soever in the association of gangs, drug pushers, and blacks. Although I can ac­cept Ms. Bruns affirmation of not being "prejudice," I think that comments such as hers as well as Mr. Sammon's are an indication of the common insen­sitivity that many people have. These two students found nothing wrong with the cartoon and could not understand why members of the Notre Dame com­munity would be offended. 
Furthermore, Mr. Sammon referred to his fellow students, who may have taken offense to this cartoon as "vociferous prigs." Although I consider myself to have an extensive vocabu­lary, I must admit that I referred to Webster's Dictionary to find out what he meant. "Vociferous"is defined as "making or given to loud outcry." "Prig" is defined as "one who irritates by rigid or pointed observance of proprieties," and "propriety" is defined as "the standard of what is so­cially acceptable in conduct or speech." I am sorry if I may have bored 

P.O. Box Q 
MJ! NOWAY! I tuHJtrIS 7HI5? ON& SE.ClJNI), 
/JIIU.NOT 8£3 I HA~MILJ!PI!IINMtGRASP, 
0/fiJJEJ)! YOU IIJIU 7113 NEXT, ALL. IV& GOT IS A 
j NOT OlE, CA5CY! reAP CIA. f)IREC!rJR.IN
/MY BED! 
. ({ 
some of you with this vocabulary les­son; however, the definitions of these words only serve to illustrate my point further. Again, I am no mind reader, and I do not know whether or not Mr. Sammon realized the full extent of what he suggested by his word choice. What concerns me is that many students find such racial stereotypes to be humorous and acceptable. Today, these racial stereotypes are humorous in the car­toons; tomorrow, they may be humorous in the classroom or during Bookstore Basketball games at AnTos­tal. 
It is unfortunate that, in this day and age, racism and sexism are replaced by a display of insensitivity to the issues which impact the minority community. 
Campus spirit must be rejuvenated 
Dear Editor: 
I suppose that by today's standards, I am an "old grad," though in reality I'm only 45. I have been more than a watcher of Notre Dame football almost 30 years. I was a football manager back in the mid sixties, and have had a close relationship with Notre Dame athletics and the athletic department since graduation. 
The following remarks are made with good will but with warning to our stu­dent body. I am fully aware that things are different from the thirties, forties, and fifties, and even from the sixties and seventies. And yet, I have wit­nessed in the past three or four years a decline in the true Notre Dame Spirit. I don't think it can be attributed to wins and losses, but rather a lack of real fighting spirit on the part of Notre Dame students who are more preoc­cupied with their own personal pur­suits, than in the true support of our teams. 
Last week I visited the campus and had the oppurtunity to watch football practice for three straight days. We now have a real coach. He's not up in some ivory tower, but is on the field with the men, teaching, correcting, polishing, and most of all--COACHING! As an observer of Notre Dame football 
Garry Trudeau 
One certainly doesn't have to look far to find examples of this insensitivity-­for instance, Arizona Governor Evan Mecham's rescission of the state's ob­servance of Martin Luther King's birthday. It is not my purpose to "point the finger of guilt" at the people to which I have made reference. Rather, it is my sincere hope that we as a "Notre Dame family" can learn from this incident, and perhaps, in the fu­ture, remember that communication, understanding, and sensitivity can go a long way in bridging this gap that I mentioned earlier. 

Lisa M. Boykin is a senior govern­ment/philosophy major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
for a long time, I can say that Lou Holtz and all of his fine staff will do their job, but my serious concern is whether you­-the student body--will do yours. I've heard it said that most students do not attend the rallies, many sell their foot­ball tickets for extra money, and some really care little whether Notre Dame wins or loses on the gridiron. A winner at Notre Dame takes the concerted ef­fort of all of us at our rather small school by comparison with others. Will you be there to do your part? I sure hope so. 
Why? Well, chasing a pigskin may not be so important, if indeed that's all it is. But I sincerely believe, like Rockne and a host of others who've fol­lowed him, that the football program, which teaches players and students how to win with honor and decency, produces winners in life who will not let life defeat them, but will "win over all." So many who have had the Notre Dame Spirit imbue their lives, and who have achieved something and left a mark in this life, have done so because of the fighting spirit of our beloved alma mater. My question to the student body is simply this: Are you big enough, and strong enough, and determined enough, to carry on this great tradi­tion? Or is Coach Joe Paterno right when he said last year, "the Notre Dame mystique is dead! "? 
Very Rev. Leonard J. Kuberski '64, MA '78 
Quote of the Day 

"You are today where your thoughts have brought you; you will be tomorrow where your thoughts take you." 
James Allen 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief......... . ..................... Kevin Becker Business Menager ........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor. .. .......................Chris Bednarski Advertising Me.nager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor.............. .. ....................... Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ....... .......................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ....... ......................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Edrtor.... ... .. ....... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ..... ................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .. .. .. .. .. .. .......... Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November3, 1968 




Accent 
--------------........, 

Tuesday, September 22, 1987 
Comic artist starts more than a 'funny' business 
Associated Press because I always wanted to do that leads them into the back one." of a bowling alley on the south 
(St. Cloud, Minn.) Having once These priorities quickly side of 1987 Chicago. been an aspiring artist himself, changed, however, when Gross Gross wasn't sure how well Peter Gross has no real grudge left Wisconsin-Superior and the public would react to a against the world of fine art. realized making a living as an storyline featuring characters He just seems to enjoy thumb­artist wasn't that easy. Swallow­named "Hammerfoot" and Ing his nose at It once In a ing his artistic ambitions, he "Erick the Clerick," mixing it up while. returned to his first love -com­with thieves and punks in 
Gross. a 29-year-old St. ics. modern-day Chicago. Cloud native, former St. John's Gross got one job through But the first issue, which Unlversil¥ student and now a Marvel Comics after sending came out in December 1986, 
resident of Duluth, Is the them some samples of his made a quick profit, selling 
creator of the new comic book work. But he got discouraged 24, 000 copies. The second series, "Empire Lanes." and Is by the length of time it took to sold 12,000 copies in two owner of Its newly formed, hear back from them and to weeks. five-person publishing compa­get paid. "When I started out, I was 
ny, Northern Lights Publishing "I thought I'd be better off thinking to myself, 'Well, here Inc. based In Duluth. just trying my own stories," he goes the dreams of being an 
Gross' family moved from St. said. "And I improved im­artist -you're just going to be a Cloud to Bloomington when he mensely the day I decided to comic book artist.' was 5 years old. He later lived do what I wanted to do instead "But I'm starting to come 
In Chicago, where he dropped of what I thought the company around a little in my own way 
out of high school to attend an wanted to do." of thinking." he said. "It's alternative school. He then What he wanted to do was cheap art, but it's nice knowing enrolled at St. John's in 1975 create and publish a series that 25,000 people are going to as a fine arts major before wasn't "super-hero stuff," had a read my comic book. If I was moving on to graduate school little more of "an '80s look" to painting. 25,000 people would at the University of Wisconsin­it and had a little more never see my work in my 
Superior. meaning than most comics do, lifetime." 
Gross said he had first he said during a recent visit to Gross also hopes to say learned to draw from reading St. Cloud. something to a wider audience Batman, Superman and Spider­Drawing on his interest in the once "Empire Lanes" has es­man comics as a child, but had game, "Dungeons &: Dragons," tablished itself and he has had 
wanted to be a serious artist his fondness for the medieval a chance to slow down the for as long as he could remem­period and his familiarity with storyline. ber. Chicago, Gross came up with "Eventually, this comic book 
"It was just a possible job "Empire Lanes." is going to be a vehicle for my option," he said of the comics. "Empire Lanes" is the story views on life," he said. "So I "I always considered myself an of seven fantasy adventurers might be able to challenge artist first, and I thought some-forced to nee their world by political things in subtle, al­! day I'd do a comic book just jumping through a magic hole legorical ways." 

What do you know? 
Associated Press Judiciary of the American Bar new labor contract by: (a) Association voted on the Deere &: Co.; (b) Ford Motor 
Editor's note: how much do nomination of Robert H. Bark Co.; (c) Caterpillar Inc. you remember about the for the Supreme Court and: (a) 7. An East German became stories that have been in the endorsed him unanimously; (b) the first leader of his country news recently? If you score pronounced him unfit in a split to visit West Germany, traveling 
fewer than five correct answers, decision; (c) endorsed him In a to his native province as well 
you have been spending too split decision. as to Bonn -the visitor was: (a) much time on the crossword. If 4. The first random drug­Gustav Husak; (b) Erich you get seven or more right. testing program for all Honecker; (c) Walter Ulbricht. 
you rate an "A." employees of a federal depart­8. After a delay of nearly a 
I. Jesse Jackson said he ment who perform critical year in which conservatives had would be a candidate for the duties was announced -it is for challenged Reagan administra­Democratic presidential employees of the Department tion policy toward a foreign nomination In 1988 -he'll of: (a) Defense; (b) Health and country, the Senate approved make a formal announcement Human Services; (c) Transpor­career diplomat Melissa Wells of his candidacy October I 0 In: tation. as U.S. ambassador to that 
(a) Raleigh, N.C.; (b) Atlanta; (c) 5. In one of the largest street country: (a) Nicaragua; (b) Washington, D.C. rallies ever held In South Afghanistan; (c) Angola. 
2. In the second largest Korea, hundreds of thousands 9. Preliminary findings of a 
federal rescue of an ailing of supporters rallied to wel­survey by National Geographic bank. the Federal Deposit In­come on his first visit since magazine of what people can surance Corporation pledged 1972 to his native province and smell included that: (a) women nearly $1 billion In aid to its capital, the opposition usually smell more acutely than 
prevent the collapse of: (a) First leader: (a) Kim Dae Jung; (b) do men; (b) only unpleasant City Corporation of Texas; (b) Roh Jae Woo; (c) Kim Young odors evoke vivid memories of First National City Bank of Sam. the past; (c) outdoor workers Chicago; (c) Continental Illinois 6. The United Automobile identify smells better than do Bank and Trust of Illinois. Workers proposed that the jobs factory workers. 
3. The 15 members of the of Its blue-collar workers be '1'?'6 ::1'9 q·L q·9 Standing Committee on Federal guaranteed for the length of its e·~ ::1'17 ::1'£ e·z; e·1 :sH:;JMSIJ\1 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

IF I CA~\ \.8.0 
'rnE EXI't.DinCN, 
I'M NOT GO\~G t>.T t>.\.l ! '/OJ CA~ GCJ 10 mt. 
'f\.1~00 'IO(JR'SELF 
~ 
" 


page 7 

Breaking: a habit 
A 
long with football games, final exams and all-nlghters, 
the study break Is an all-American college Institution. It 
Is performed In multiple settings, to various degrees and 
according to the particular style of each participant In the 
game. 

One's choice of study space determines to a great extent 
one's study break location. If hitting the books In a dorm, 
one can pop over to a friend's room, Interrupt his or her 
concentration and blow-off the next 20 minutes talking 
about nothing until someone else comes In and another 
quarter hour Is spent discussing what the newcomer Is not 
learning. 
Choosing to study anywhere In LaFortune Is usually a 
study break all of Its own. Friends, acquaintances and 
other attractive people are always passing through, and 
the time between visits available for actually accomplishing 
something usually averages seven minutes or so: never 
enough time to do anything. 
Mary Berger 
Back in the High Ufe 

The Pit Stop Is frequently performed by 'brar buddies In order to "be social and chat" but more Importantly to eat. During my Inquiries Into what constitutes a successful study break. I found that food Is a very dominant theme. 
At 9:45p.m. on a Wednesday night. one male student told me, "I have gone so long without eating that I need to now." Another explanation was that "everybody needs to eat; It's a natural, human need. If you are taking care of such a vital need, no one can point a finger or accuse you of blowing off." 
The most appetizing locations for food breaks? Hall food sales, the Huddle, the Ice-cream shop, vending machines, the Oak Room or one's own room with popcorn or pizza. 
There are some students however, who act In a different way and exercise their bodies In order to rt<Juvenate their minds. Picking up a Stepan Courts basketball game Is a Grace Hall resident's preference while some of his section­mates choose to play tag In the hallways. Running Is popular, too -both around campus and up and down the stairwells In the library. 
A junior explained that he still needs to complete his math requirement as the result of a bit-too-relaxing study • break his freshman year. "A friend called and asked if I'd like to take a bizarre study break. I said, 'Sure' and we went cross-countrv skllno for three hoursl" 

Mindless activities which allow one to "zone out" were the most popular choices among students. These options ranged from simply flipping through a magazine to "cranking" the Dead Milkmen on the stereo to the ever­popular sleeping. 
Some may say study breaks are a waste of time: valuable hours are lost during the breaks themselves and upon returning. the mind does not kick back Into "work" mode. On the other hand, one Is revived by a short Interruption. A change of pace makes one more alert and revives burnout. Having contact with people and the norms of life reminds one that those seemingly endless hours with the books will not Indeed last forever. Breaks serve as a little reward for those hours of work well done thus encouraging one to spend study time In a more productive manner. 
So the next time you find yourself reading the same page for the fifth time and your knees have conformed to the desk chair, go get something to eat. run to the thirteenth floor of the library or dance in the rain. Some­times, as all 7-Up fans know, you "gotta take a break." 

The Observer Tuesday, September 22, 1987
page 8 


Sports Briefs · 
The ski team will hold a meeting Thursday, September 24, at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre for those interested in a Christmas break ski trip. This year's trip, open to all students, will be to Telluride, Co., Jan. 2-10. -The Observer 
The Domer Runson September 26 will start at 11 a.m. rather than 10:30. Runners should sign up from 10-10:45 a.m. -The Observer 
The Racquetball Club will hold its organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in room 118 of the Nieuwland Sceince Hall. The league schedules will be distributed at this time, so atten­dance is requested. For more information, call Mark (1422) or Dave (1425). -The Observer 
NVA Aerobics classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays now begin at 6:45p.m. instead of 7 p.m. -The Observer 
Aerobics at the ACC will be cancelled tomor­row for Inauguration Day. There will be one night class open to all tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Gym 1. -The Observer 
The J.V. soccer team defeated the Goshen Soccer Club, 6-5, Saturday. Art Bustamante had a hat trick to lead the Irish. Brent Buder, Bob McAuliffe and Garth Behrje also scored goals for the winners. The ;I.V. will face Bethel College on Thursday, September 24, on Alumni Field at 4:45 
p.m. -The Observer 

The Squash Club will hold a clinic tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in Court 1 of the ACC. All interested are invited. -The Observer 
The New York Jets trounced their AFC Eastern Division rival New England Patriots, 43-24 in Monday night football. -Associated Press 
SMC basketball tryouts will begin Sunday, October 4, from 6-8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Players must have a physical to try out. For more information, call 5548. -The Observer 
Stepan Court time requests are now being accepted at the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune. If your clulYorganization would like to reserve time for basketball, now is the time to ap­ply. Deadline for applications is September 25. -The Observer 
In majorleaguebaseballaction yesterday, the Boston Red Sox topped the Detroit Tigers, 9-4, the Cleveland Indians upended the Oakland Ath­letics, 6-3, the Toronto Blue Jays nipped the Bal­timore Orioles, 2-1, the St. Louis Cardinals defeated the Philadelphia Phillies, 3-1, the New York Mets whipped the Chicago Cubs, 7-1, and the Pittsburgh Pirates downed the Montreal Expos, 5-2. Associated Press 
n.a....Notn1 Deme office., located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· cMnt C:..W, eccepta clualfled .m.tlslng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtdar. 11le a....Saint "'-Y'a office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•, eccepta claelfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday thfOugh Frtdar. Deadline for next-Oay cluslfledsls3 p.m. All cluslfleds must
Classifieds be pnii)MI, either In person Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five ~perday. 
HELP. Freshman guy desperately needs Lost: TO THE HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS OF 
WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TfX. 213· a ride to Purdue game this weekend. Will Blue Bud Light keychain on way back
NOTICES 
422-2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. PERSONALS NOTRE DAME: IT IS TOO BAD THAT help pay for gas and beer. Please call 
from game. Call Joe at 1748. YOUR IDOU ROLE MODEL IS A 
Bryan at 2921. Please. please. please. 
Sf'EE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 

MIDDLE AGED. OVERWEIGHT. 237-1949; H: 277-8131. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. 
BEARDED MAN WHO RESEMBLES A CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326 HAPPY ANNIVERSARY 
QUAKER. SINCERL Y YOURS, WELL PAT AND LAUREl!
LOST: GLASSES

MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
YOU KNOW WHO.
WHEN: ON DAY OF NO VS MS GAME Need GA's for all home games. Will pay Love. Punzy. Stud Muffin. and the CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE 
WHERE: SOMEWHERE BETWEEN big $. Call John 1837 GoddessTO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY; 277-2724 
BORKEY PIG EVE. 
SMC AND ND BOOKSTORE WHY: 
HAVENT YOU BEEN TRASHED I NEED PURDUE & ALL HOME GAME WAKE UPf 
SEPTEMBER 22, 1987 TODAY IS THE TYPING AVAILABLE 
BEFORE? IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL GA'S. 272-6306 BETH,SUZANNE,MICHELLE,MEG, 
DAY KATHY GETS BLOWN AWAY. 287-4082 
SUE 284-5067 And You Thought I'd Forget. 
HOPE YOU CAN CAN FIND YOUR WAY 
STOP!!! HOME KIDDO. Yesterday Would Have Been Too LOST Easy.
WILL TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 GA TYPINGWORD PROCESSING BAMA. TIX NOT FOR SALE. (201) 321-DESPERATELY NEED 1 or 2 NAVY TIX 
STUDENT TIX-SECTION 33 WARNING!!!!! BRIDGET'S. BRIDGET'S, Thursday Night 'Lightweight' Club Will 
CALL CHRIS 8269 9-5 EST. CALL ALYSSA 3736
ANY INFO CALL BRIDGET'S, LOCK YOUR DOORS!! Endure. 234-8997 
MARY DUNNIGAN KATHY IS COMING!! However, No Cheating Next Time 284-5168 (Beth).
I NEED 4 BC GA'S CALL ROSS X1741 1am a one woman man as soon as Mic­
To the guy from St. Ed's who gave me -Signed-Receive $5 oN $50 or more purchase of Need Boston College GA's --will pay $$11 helle leaves. a hug when t really needed one Friday The Guy Who, Despite His Name, your textbooks at Pandora's Bookstore. Call4302. 
night. Thanks. Should Be Trusted.
located on 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame (And You Can Quote Me On That)Ave. We're open 7 days a weeki! 0:00 

I'M YOUNG AND RESTLESS Mike Naughlon have mercy! Do not a.m.-5:30. 
FOR RENT 

AND GOING TO PURDUE FRIDAY. abuse the power of the press. Mard Ill I WILL GIVE MY BODY OR EVEN is in order! 
SHEILA SHEILA SHEILA SHEILA 

With, receive an extra 10% off on pur­MONEY FOR 2 BC GA'S CALL JOHN o.EPT. 25. BUT THIS 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER You've got a heart of gold and you·ve
chases of used paperbacks (in stock) at AT 1980 GUIDING LIGHT NEEDS 10 REASONS TO NOTRE DAME MEN.
VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­stolen mine. With those eyes of emerald 
Pandora's Bookstore. located at 808 RIDERS! COMING?
TALS 272-5959 WRITIEN BY THE WOMEN OF NOTRE green. I just want you to know. you·re so 
Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're I WILL GIVE ANYTHING FOR 2 NAVY CALL JODI AT 1282. 
DAME: !.STANFORD "STUDS" 2.SYRS 
cute when you bowl, That I'm dy1ng to 

open 7 days a weeki 10:00 a.m.-5:30 GA'S AND 1 BC GA PLEASE CALL
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­3."NICE GUYS" 4.DOUBLE E ROTC'S see you aga1n.
STEVE AT 1654 IT WILL BE WORTHp.m. 

5.PAT AND TJ 6. HAT HEAD YOUR WHILE DESPARATELY SEEKING SOMEONEBORHOOD 255-3684288-0955 7.MEISTERBRAU 8.FOOTBALL 
FREE: Trip to Daytona plus commiss1on with NO VS BC g.a.'s $$$

MOVE IN NOW! FREE RENT UNTIL PLAYERS 9.J 10.352 ZAHM money. Going to Florida? Go lor free.
1 GA FOR USC-PLEASE SELL YOURS evenlngs... 288-3018 (Matt) TO ME' 
······················································· 1(}2~7. Two separate 2 bedroom apart­Take advantage of promoting the £1 COFFEE lovers,musicians,talkers--Java ments available. each with kitchen, full our Spring Break !rip. ll1nterested call Des1g·
Notice to whoever stole "No BoysCALL "ALASKA" £3007
House 91.12 8pm CSC to benefit ODN bathroom and large living room. Beds Allowed" s1gn---you Will pay! ner's of Travel 1-800-453-9074 Immedi­
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR
and dressers furnished. Rent includes all ately!
USC. CALL LINDA AT 284·5406
utilities. Call 232-9239. FOUND Football Tickets MARK AND JEFF--OR IS THAT MUTI
Need Riders to DAYTON 91.15-91.17 D1ane BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S I NEED 4 BC If you are a loser and have lost your AND JEFF?-· GET DOWN GET DRUNK 
2907 

' LOST/FOUND I 
football lickets. I am your sav1or. If you GET NAKED (SO WE CAN TAKE PIC·GA'S. CALL FRANK ·3104 can tell me the row and seat number. TURES) HAPPY BIRTHDAY FROM THE 
LwANTED 

HEY, I NEED 3 GA'S TO ANY HOME
LOST!!! they are yours. Hint: Section 34. Call BP CHICKS!
NAVY-NEED 4 GA'S. USC-NEED 1 GAME! PLEASE CALL PATII AT 284­

A GOLD HERRINGBONE NECKLACE. Jesus at 2264 or 2284.
STUD. CALL JOHN x1867 
5176.

IF FOUND. PLEASE RETURN TO AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE Reward will be accepted!?! THE ONLY GOOD THING ABOUT WO· STEPHANIE. CALL ANYTIME AT 284-YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272-MEN ARE THEIR LIPS. HMWHC
WANTED: USC GA's

5183. THANX!! 0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­
TOWER OF MANHOOD CHAPTER DAYS. Dave: WILL PAY $$$$$$$ 
CALL ELLEN Get your act together. this is supposed HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHY McKEE· To272-0806

Helpll!l I lost my only set of car keys, Cub!, Snell, Vlno, Lar, Kristen, to be the grea1es1 time of your life. my favorite Day Ed1tqr !! Have a greatroom keys, detex. and Washington State I need Penn St. GA's call Marty-! 050 Brian, Dave, James, day at Bridget's. you South Side Slummer Driver's license Sunday night somewhere f know it is but sometimes I get sooo !!!! All my love · Chris H.
Need 2 USC ga's. Call Jose at 283·3346 Goodby, I'll miss you all this year.
between the Oak Room and Walsh at Models needed lor IUSB Fine Arts De· 
tired. 
about 11 :30 p.m.. They are all hooked partment. Clothed, $4.00 hr., nude, Have fun In South Bend and write me 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP!!!

together on a key chain. Please call2971 $6.00 hr and up. Contact Joan For­everyday. Goldstein,
No more excuses, just do it. You'll feel
I'M DESPERATE!!!! I need 2 or 4 GA'S much better.
anytime. Reward!! sythe or Tony Droege, 237-4277, or Love, Marla I Love You Becky' 
to any home football game after MIC­HIGAN STATE!!!!!!!!!!! If you can help, 

Harold Langland, 237-4475. Love. 
FOUND: One bracelet. Silver and pearls. Toad A friend tells me WANTED
that the perfume it is my Dad has tons of money, seriously. To the man that doesn't know how to PLEASE Jenny
1mbued with is Chanel No. 5. If you want Senior Student to babysit 2 yr old boy CALL at x3618 drive a stick shift: Dance with FREUDIAN SLIP FREUDIAN this back, call 1536 either early or tate, and large dog. Mostly weekends, some SUP FREUDIAN SUP at Chips tomght 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Thanks for being special! I'll always be 
or call 239-5305 and ask for Mark weekdays and occasional housesitting. NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THAT here if you need me. 2$ pitchers No school tomorrow! McLaughlin. Must have transportation.Excellent LEAVES FRI. AFTER 4 AND RETURNS 
Your little social worker salary. Call Mrs. Knapp at 277-5450. P.S. If it is meant to be. it will be.
SAT. NITE WILL SHARE COSTS. CALL ROSE ...GIVE IT UP.
HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP My Dad 

LOST: CALCULATOR, CASIO 7000. TOM AT 2301 OR 2302 PLEASE HELP ME OUT. WAITRESS FOR GOLDEN DOMERS I CAN'T WAIT TO WHAT WE
needs 2 Navy GAs! If I doni get them he

IF FOUND. NEEDED LUNCH. ARE THINKING?.. .WE
·······················
will send some very LARGE, very UN­

CONTACT JOHN AT 1620. $$$ MUST BE 21. APPLY AT SMITIY'S THE METS ARE POND SCUM SEE THE MOVIE I THANKS FOR THINK­DON'T HAVE TIME FOR RELATION­REWARD$$$. CONEY ISLAND TAP, 125 NO. MIC­ING OF ME IN UTAH WHAT A GREAT SHIPS
FORGIVING persons out looking for me. Save my health, please! Call Pat at x1766

HIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND WEAR A RED RIBBON Show your TRUCK! BINK WE ARE TOO INTIMIDATING. LOST: ALL OF MY KEYS SOMEWHERE solidarity with the qppressed of South WE DON'T LIVE LIVE THE LIFESTYLE
NEED ONE B C TIK FOR BRO. CALL

AT SMC. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL Africa. Wear a red ribbon during the in­To the abused roommate on her birthday: THAT IS CONDUCIVE FOR SHARING.
NOW ALSO NEED 4 GA TO ANY HOME Get the hell out of our room'!

283-1073 OR I'M OUT $75. auguration activities on Wednesday. WE REFUSE TO BE SPINELESS
GAME $$$ KEVIN 271-0932 

WIMPS. Whoever picked up my Guess jean jacket FOR SALE WAY TO GO MIKE NORMAN!! MOR­ALL THE REAL MEN ARE 1500 MILES 
GIBS, Good Times--Hot tub I NEED 2 G.A.S FOR THE USC GAME 
W'flings,T&T's.Champagne,Talking on ON OCT 24. IF YOU GOT 'EM, SELL
with 10 and keys by mistake at Senior RISSEY HAS THE ONLY FROSH ON AWAY. 
Bar on Thurs. !VI7 -Please call mel No THE IRISH GUARDII!I!I SMC bench, Zinfadei,Havarti.Dates YEAH, YEAH... BLAH,BLAH.BLAH .
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR 'EM TO ME. CALL 3772 

questions asked. Leanne 289-6512 wi426,Soccer games and parties
$44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN· 

Three girls need professional masseur drowned rats MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! 1 WAY FLIGHJ TO NYC SAT OCT 17
FOUND .... SET OF KEYS AFTER THE Secretarial skills optional Twirling spaghet­MEN ARE THE WORLD'S BIGGEST
CALL 1-312·742·1142, EXT. 7316. 9:30 AM 2874336

GAME -ROOM AND CAR KEYS. YOU Call £2494 to set up an interview ti,Cuddling,Asti,Understanding,Palience. SOCIAL PROBLEM CAN FIND THEM AT LAFORTUNE 
It has been a GREAT 2eWeeks.Thanx 4 LOST & FOUND the helium! U A A good influence. LOVE, That's a fie. Women are worthless and
!SELECTRIC TYPEWRITER Need to exchange 2 Navy GA's for 2 BC f4sears graduate wk:orr. GA's Call Jayme £1790 

7117 
they know it.
incl. carrying case 75.00 t>tJ x4333 ALEX ABRALDESI!I

HELP 11!1 I NEED PURDUE TfX MIKE 1741 
Don't worry, I didn't give up on you! Do you have our PANTY'S? We need it 
LOST: One checkbook Friday afternoon 1984 Toyota Extra-Cab Pick-Up. Auto­DID VOU MISS
You looked SEXY at the Michigan back-runmng low' Please call­
(12-1p.m.) between PW & Cushing. Also, matic, AMf'M & Cassette, 21,000 miles. the Michigan State
State game. I'll let you know my name Love ya.
Friday n~e-while ND jacket with green $5,200. Call Katie 239-5200 during day, GA'S WANTED 1 USC AND 4 ALA­SOCCER GAME?
soon. Love, Your Secret Admirer SW,Kitten,Mini,Paddington,Cinderella.& yellow piping, says 'brew crew' on front, or 232-5238 after 6:00. BAMA. CALL BILL x3366 Then catch all the action on WVFI-AM 
& Bubblescontains NO 10. detex, drivers' license, 640 tonight at 11 p.m. as Frank Mastro etc either at Navarre St. Campus View CLASSY ! 1980 MONTE-CARLO. V6 en­NEED 2 USC GA'S and Pete Gegen bring you all the action

Anyone, Anyone DESPERATELY SEEKING STEPHEN 
or Brendenwood Apls. If any of the above gine, automatic, new paint, looks and PARENTS VISITING from Friday night's Notre Dame-Michigan 
The big man, that dramatic guy from the my sweetie at Marquette
found. please contact ZooBrain a.k.a. runs excellent. Best transportation for the STEVE 277-8932 State contest. This first-ever broadcast
top of Grace, that loveable, cuddleable My sweet guy wants to show oN his HTH winter. $1495 .232·2299.
Colleen at 283-4355 or 411 PW. of a Notre Dame soccer match will be
guy who is so sexually deprived is turning at a dance on the weekend of Oct 2. 
played right after "Speaking of Sports."
20 years old today. Please, please help Go1ng my way? Call Geese at 284-4302
FOUND. Outside of Morris Inn Saturday 1976 PONTIAC ASTRE. $500 OR BEST WILL TRADE 2 GA PSU FOR 2 GA BC That's tonight at 11 p.m.
Mark Costanzi out. Give him a big wet
morning, a blue watch with a black OFFER. WILL RUN. 289-2478. OR BAMA. 201-359-2132. LISTEN
one today and say Happy Birthday Mark! NEED RIDE TO PURDUE FRI AFTER
wristband. If you lost it, call1615 with a to the 5 AND BACK SUN. BIG BUCKS. NO
full description of the watch to claim it. WILL TRADE 2 USC TIX FOR 2 BAMA 19TH·RANKED IRISH SOCCER TEAM
THE COUNTDOWN BEGINS! SEVEN WHAMMIES!II 284-4083 AFTER 3PM
Ask for Pat. TIX (GA). CALL KATIE 404-257·8588. TONIGHT ON WVFI
DAYS UNTIL JULIA TURNS 21 . 
.................... TICKETS 
HAPPY BDAY DANNY KEEGAN!

LOST: One blue wallet Thursday night TWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF 
PARTY THUR. NITE We hope it's an awesome one and hey,
on the South Quad. If found please call MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR TONY LEE---HAPPY BIRTHDAY!
WITH $2 PITCHERS & forget about Nova
Pat at 1615 immediately. There are I NEED PENN ST GA'S! MOM AND DAD ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA· CHECK FOR A SURPRISE TOMOR­
blank generation Love. Danielle.Katie,Meredith.Mary
several forms of ID 1nside which I NEED! WILL PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL SUE AT TION --TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US ROW!
AT UNCLE'SI! TOUCHDOWN JESUS?!
X4238.

Reward if returned' C{) MATI 283-3549 
Tuesday, September 22, 1987 The Observer page 9 
Boxing Club starts road to Bengals 
If early preparation and determination breed  cyhurst, Ohio State, Marietta, Cornell and the Uni­ Those words summed up the feelings of Sailing  
later success, members of the Boxing Club may  versity of Massachusetts.  Club President Mark Ryan after the club finished  
give fans a good showing at the Bengal Bouts in  "It's the first-ever regatta in Pittsburgh," Club  second  in  the  Davis Cup Regatta in  Iowa last  
the spring.  President Bill Milon said. "It's going to be tough.  weekend. Michigan won the event followed by the  
Over 50 novice boxers have been participating in  We're getting to see some eastern schools, which  Irish and the host Hawkeyes.  
the daily workouts in the boxing gym at the JACC,  is good because we're going to be in Boston (Oct.  Notre Dame lost the regatta after losing a protest  
gaining the skills needed to compete in the famed  18), and then we also get to see some midwestern  ruling at the end of the races.  
Bengal Bouts. The workouts include mastering the  schools."  "That was the deciding factor," Ryan said. "It  
basic skills of footwork and defense along with the  could have went either way. We had a good shot at  

basic punches and jabs. The boxers start each day 
winning."
Greg

with 15 minutes of calisthenics and occasionally The improvement was drastic compared to last spar with the hockey team. week's eighth-place finish in their own regatta. In
Guffey

"We have a real enthusiastic group," Club Pres­that regatta, they only won one race the whole day. ident Kevin Duggan said. "This is for people who In Iowa, the Irish won six races out of 20.
Club Corner 

have never boxed before. I think most of them will The club will travel to the Coast Guard Academy stick with it." to compete in the Danmark Regatta this weekend. 
The climax of the amateur program will come Chris Nye will handle the coaching duties for the around October break with a novice tourney, a final men's team while Veronica Weadock, Sam Wing test before the Bengal Bouts. and Susan Pusek coach the women. 1987 Notre ••• 
"We want them to have some experience for the Dame grad Greg Shadid is coaching the novice Mter two losses and a tie, the Women's SoccerBengal Bouts rather than having them go against team, which opens its season by hosting the Blue Club won its first match of the season Wednesday,people with a lot of experience," Duggan said. and Gold intersquad Regatta Oct. 10. 
a 1-0 shutout of Hope College. 
"We're teaching them to box instead of just fight. All of the coaches have had several rowers to Michelle Richards scored the game's lone goalThere's a lot more to it than that, and they'll know work into their plans. The inaugural meeting at­on an assist from Susan Haling. Helen Gilboy was
tracted 200 students, and 70 have stayed with the
what it's all about. 
the goalie that registered the shutout. 
Duggan stresses that it is still not too late for program. That is the largest group in the history "We definitely dominated," Club Treasurer Anne boxers to join the program, as they have only of the club. 
Mcintyre said. "It should have been a higher score. 
missed a week of workouts. Practices are from 4 "We have an unusually high number of high A big improvement was the way we all worked as
school rowers joining the program," Milon said.
to 5:30p.m. each day. 
a team. Teamwork is becoming an asset for us."
"So, they can really help our depth."

••• Sunday's match against Indiana was canceled 
The Rowing Club will finally see action this ••• due to a scheduling conflict. Now 1-2-1, the Irish weekend at the Head of the Ohio River Regatta in "It was kind of upsetting; I think we outsailed will meet arch-rival Saint Mary's Thursday at 4 Pittsburgh. The Irish will compete against Mer-them." p.m. at Stepan Field. 
were running on empty," said Gelfman. "It takes a lot of guts


Cahill
WANT~D 
to come off a road trip and be continued from page 12 able to pull it off. We had a lot
USC vs. ND 
of three-setters, more than I

FOOTBALL TICKETS 
several three-set matches to wanted, but the girls really
2 1.3-422-2812 
win the match. pulled it together when they 
"They were exhausted, they needed to."
!.o\RLY A/1 OR CVt::NINQS 

READ IT... LEARN IT? 

Singles winners for the Irish included senior Michelle Das­so, sophomore Alice Lohrer, 
BUY

Pacella, Kelly, and junior Julie Sullivan. Doubles winners 
OBSERVER 
were Lohrer and Dasso, Pacella and sophomore Step­
CLASSIFIEDS hanie Tolstedt, and Kelly and Illig . 
•  Use this coupon at  •  
:  COUNTY MARKET  :  
:  to redeem $2.00  off our  :  

• 4 or 6 foot giant deli • : submarines : : *orders must be : :•placed 2 days in :• : advance* : 

It's back to school time and Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical wants to ta~ce care of your vision needs this semester. We're Indiana's largest vision care provider and we can put that expertise to work for you. Please use the coupons below. They cover the vision care products and services you'll need for your schoolwork. When you have a vision problem, there's someone you can turn to. Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical. 



TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. BOX OFFICE,
Please present coupon at time of purchase. All offers not valid with other offers or SEARS, (U.P. MALL AND ELKHART), ST. JOE BANK (MAIN
on sale items or previous orders. Offers expire September 30, 1987. OFFICE), NIGHTWINDS (NORTH VILLAGE MALL AND NILES), ELKHART TRUTH, SUPER SOUNDS (ELKHART), J.R.'S MUSIC CENTER ILA PORTE) AND MUSIC MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR) 
South Bend Mishawaka 1111 E Ireland Rd 506 W. McKinley 

CHARGE BY PHONE: 239-7356 ($1.50 SERVICE CHARGE PER ORDER) 
Broadmoor Plaza K-Mart/Manin Center acroos from Scowdale Mall next door to Oaco DroR 

PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS FOR ZIP 104 
291-4000 258-5000 


page 10 The Observer 
Belles edge Oberlin, fall to Findlay 

By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team is off to a promising start this year under new Head Coach Tom Vanmeter. The 2-3 Belles split a pair of games at Findlay, Ohio last Friday against Findlay College and Oberlin College. 
The Belles were upset in the first match by Findlay, 2-1. Anne Czweda booted a shot from outside the goal box to score the Belles' only point. 
Vanmeter felt the team did not play together and gel as they usually do. 
"We played sloppy soccer and had no continuing plays that took us down the field to a goal," said Vanmeter. 
The Belle's quickly bounced back Saturday to defeat Ober­lin College, 3-2. 
K.C. Chandler scored the first goal on a shot from the corner that sneaked in the goal over the head of Oberlin's 

Voce 

injures hand 

Special to The Observer 
Center Gary Voce of the Irish basketball team frac­tured his right hand in a pickup game last week, leaving his hand in a cast for the next month. 
Skip Meyer, assistant trainer for the Notre Dame athletic department, said that Voce's hand will be ex­amined before Oct. 15, the opening of fall practice. Voce will then be fitted with a splint for another month, during which he will be al­lowed to practice. 
Voce injured his hand last Wednesday in a pickup game when former Irish guard Scott Hicks drove for a layup and accidentally kicked Voce in the hand. 
The team plays one preseason game against Yugoslavia Nov. 19 before opening the season Dec. 1 at Indiana. 
goalie. 
Freshman Tricia Troester then stole the ball from an Oberlin defender and sped down the field on a breakway, scoring her first goal of the season. 
With the score tied at two, Celest Aquino crossed the ball to Troester who challenged the defense and scored her second goal of the game, giving the Belles the winning edge. 
Coach Vanmeter was pleased with his team's perfor­mance, calling it "a 180 degree turnaround" from the game before. 
"We have a small team, but all players contributed to the victory," Vanmeter said. Van­meter referred to the victory as the "best team effort yet" and hopes the Belles continue playing as a winning team. 
The Belles will join the Notre Dame football team at Purdue this weekend when they take on the Boilermakers Saturday at 10 a.m. 
Irish inch to eighth 
Associated Press 
After an impressive 31-8 rout of Michigan State last Satur­day, Notre Dame moved up a notch to eighth in this week's Associated Press college foot­ball poll. 
Oklahoma, Nebraska, Auburn and LSU -the first three idle last weekend -held onto the top four spots in the poll Mon­day while Miami and Florida State inched ahead of Ohio State, which slipped from fifth place to seventh. 
Michigan State and Pitt fell out of the Top Twenty after two-week stays while Texas A&M and Iowa moved back into the rankings for the first time since the preseason poll. 
Oklahoma, which returns to action on Saturday at Tulsa, received 53 of 60 first-place votes and 1,193 of a possible 1,200 votes from a nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcasters. 
Nebraska, which visits 12th­ranked Arizona State on Satur­day, received the other seven first-place votes and points. 
1,129 
Auburn, with a road game against Tennessee coming up, received 1,028 points. All three teams have 2-0 records. 
LSU, 3-0 following a 49-16 vic­tory over Rice, remained No.4 with 995 points. 
Miami has been idle for two weeks -the Hurricanes meet lOth-ranked Arkansas in Little Rock on Saturday -but jumped from sixth place to fifth with 888 points. Florida State, a 41-24 winner over Memphis State, climbed from seventh to sixth with 869 points. 
Ohio State's shaky 24-14 tri­umph over Oregon cost the Buckeyes two spots in the rankings, dropping them from fifth to seventh with 867 points. Ohio State visits LSU on Satur­day. 
Notre Dame's win lifted the Fighting Irish from ninth to eighth with 788 points, while Clemson, which needed a last­second field goal to nip Georgia 21-20, slipped from eighth to ninth with 777 points. 
Arkansas' 30-15 victory over Tulsa boosted the Razorbacks 

Golf team edges Lansing for crown 
Special to the Observer 
After suffering through a season of one and two stroke losses last year, the Irish golf team turned things around Monday at the Glen Oaks Clas­sic, edging Lansing by one stroke to take the ten team tournament. 
The Irish compiled a score of 314 to edge Lansing on the par­72 Pine View Golf Club course in Three Rivers, Michigan. Notre Dame's Pat Mohan led all golfers with a round of 74 in the rain and mud, followed by Doug Giorgio (77), Dick Con­nelly (81) and Paul Nolta (82). 
Notre Dame's win at Pine View continued momentum that the Irish had started on the previous weekend, in a win over Western Michigan. 
A dual match with Western Michigan last Friday started the fall season for the Irish gol­fers, and the team responded Notre Dame shot a combined with a 27-stroke whipping of the score of 379 in the match. Indi­Broncos. Irish head coach Noel vidual scores had Connelly as O'Sullivan has yet to see his the top golfer with a 72, fol­team lose a dual match in this lowed by Giorgio (75), Terry decade with an unblemished 11-Berland (75), Mohan (76), and 0 record in the 1980's. Nolta (81). 
******************** 
~ HAPPY 20TH ~ 
~ 
~ 
*~ 
* 
~ 
BIRTHDAY,~ 
MARK ~ 
We love you, ~ 
Parents * 
and * 
Grandparents ~ 

****************•*** 
•

1n AP Poll 
from 12th to lOth with 643 points. 
The Second Ten consists of Tennessee, Arizona State, UCLA, Michigan, Penn State, Texas A&M, Alabama, Wash­ington, Iowa and Georgia. 
Last week, it was Alabama, Arkansas, UCLA, Tennessee, Arizona State, Pitt, Michigan State, Georgia, Michigan and Penn State. 
Texas A&M returned to the rankings by defeating Wash­ington 29-12 and Iowa made it back by crushing Iowa State 48­9 for its second straight victory after an opening-game loss to Tennessee in the Kickoff Clas­sic. 
Meanwhile, Michigan State's loss to Notre Dame cost the Spartans their place in the Top Twenty and Pitt fell out after a 24-21 upset at the hands of Temple. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~ 
• SOCIETY11 
Tuesday, September 22, 1987 


It's official: NFL players on strike 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -NFL players called their second strike in six years Monday night, putting their six-figure salaries on the line for the freedom to choose where they work. 
"As of midnight tonight (Monday) the players of the National Football League will be on strike again," Gene Up­shaw, executive director of the NFL players Association, said in announcing the strike during halftime of the New England Patriots-New York Jets game. 
"None of us wants this, not the players, not the fans, not the owners, and that's really, really sad." 
The owners vowed to con­tinue the season Oct. 4-5, after a one-week delay, with non­striking regulars and free agents who were told to report Wednesday, the same day the union planned to start picket­ing. The owners said they would honor requests for ticket refunds . 
The issue was free agency. The union demanded that any player with more than four years' experience be free to choose his team; the owners in­sisted on some compensatic:ui for teams losing free agents, a system that has seen only one player change teams in a de­cade. 
There had been no talks since a meeting Friday between Up­shaw and Management Council negotiator Jack Donlan, and no further negotiations were scheduled. "The ball is in Gene's court," said Jim Con­way, assistant exerutive direc­tor of the Management Council. 
~ I'. .  FRANCISCAN \O\\ow Jesus cls ct Secular Franciscan  
Comt" Join (Is St•fVt• the World With l ovt•  
For More Information Call:  
Fred Kagel, S.F.O . 219/233-2232  


PRE-LAW SOCIET 
IS SPONSORING A ·PERSONAL STATEMENT SEMINAR TO PREPARE LAW SCHOOL 
APPLICATIONS PART 2: TONIGHT, 7 :00-9:00PM, Library A~&Jitorium 


Tuesday, Seotember 22. 1987 
The Observer page 11 

The Daily Crossword 
10 a.m. -12 p.m.: Computer Minicourse WordPerfect (Word Processor), Mi­
crocomputer Laboratory, Computing Center. Limit 7. To register, call Betty 
239-5604. Also Thursday, September 24. 
12 p.m.: Kellogg Brown Bag Lunch Seminars "The 'Informal Sector' in 
Capitalist Societies," by Dr. David Stark, University of Wisconsin, Madison. 
Room 131 Decio Hall. 
12 p.m. -1 p.m.: SMC Center for Spirituality, Women of Faith Series, Part II. Reflections on four women of courage, individuality, and conviction who affected the lives of others and influenced history. Speaker: Dr. Corrine A. McGuigan, SMC, on Dorothy Day. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall 
12:15 p.m.: Dept. of Sociology Lecture "The Status of the Discipline: New Directions in Research Funding and Employment," by Dr. William V. D'Antonio, Executive Officer, American Sociological Association, Washington, D.C. Library Lounge. 
3 p.m. -5 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Introduction to PC and MS-DOS, Micro­
computer Lab. Computing Center. Limit 10. To register, call Betty 239-5604. Also 
Thursday, September 24. 
3 p.m. -5 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Introduction to Kermit, Room 115, Com­
puting Center. Limit 15. To register, call Betty 239-5604 3:30 p.m.: Chemical 
Engineering Graduate Seminar "The Chemistry of Crystalline Silicoaluminop­
hosphates," by Dr. Mark E. Davis, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State 
University. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar "Investigating the Aging Processwith Germ-Free Rats," by Dr. David Snyder, ND. Room 283, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
6:30p.m. -8 p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop Series "Stress Man­agement," a lecturetliscussion focusing on how interpretations of environment are a principal source of stress, by Dr. Timothy Onkka, ND staff psychologist. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center 
6:30p.m. -7:30p.m.: SMC Campus Ministry Catholic Identity Series, a weekly seminar exploring Catholicism. Stapleton Lounge. For additional information call Pat Hackett at 284-5369 
7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Union Pacific," directed by 
C.B. DeMille. Annenberg Auditorium 
9:30 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Innocence Unprotected," Annenberg Auditorium 
ACROSS 1 Packs tightly 5 Vary within 
limits 10 Stinger 14 Chills and 
lever 15 Zola 16 Water jar 17 Dole 18 Important 19 Maraud 20 Reproduced 21 Religious 
image 22 "Golden Boy" 
dramatist 23 "-golden" 26 Sunday: abbr. 29 Legal point 30 Festival times 34 Askew 36 Warm over 37 Oriental nurse 38 Jason's ship 39 Mignonette 42 Profession 44 Ambience 46 Hood's 
weapon 47 Netherlands 
city 48 "-Is bliss" 51 Stuffs 54 Squealed 55 River craft 59 "Clair de -" 60 Stage whisper 61 Century plant 62 lt. wine 
region 63 Penny-plncher 64 Antitoxins 65 Affirmatives 66 Imitators 67 Student's 
obstacle 
DOWN 1 Sidepiece lor a door 2 Ripening 
factor 3 Speechless 4 Caraway and 
poppy 5 Vilified 


~-1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
6 Priestly vestments 7 Gaseous 
element 8 Once-over 9 Scaleless fish 
10 "-weep and tears that speak" (Cowley) 
11 Wings 12 Aperture 13 Tablets 22 Belg. river 24 Wrath 25 Corn unit 26 Asterisks 27 Anouk ­

28 Explosion 31 Spectral 42 Food troughs 32 Fumed 43 Common abbr. 33 Reserve 45 Dirt 35 "-out of 46 Glance 
joint" 49 Uplift 
("Hamlet") 50 Remove 40 Excavations 51 Feet of ­41 Jillian of TV 52 Artifice 
09/22/87 

53 Theater gp. 56 Author Haley 57 "It's time ­
change" (Dewey) 58 Sports group 60 Drs.' gp. 
Comics 
Bloom County 
V/Fm/AI.LY ~ll'n~5j, 
()(JR. PW!rA&ONIST WllN/le?5 THe WI~€5S OF Tl£ 
IIMEf<ICAN /.ANP5CII~.-
Beernuts 
511£ SA/f) Y£5l t GOT At( 
SYR MT£.1 A GIRl. I tV£ 
GoTTA T[LL. TH[ GUyS! 
0 
NO 5TrJI?Y... NO PIAUJG(J~.. NO !5StJ€5... NO 1101£5... 
.8~/ANI NAVO' AAIJ) I WIIATAR£ AI:£ GONNA /JR(JJ
YOU !XJIA/6­

SCW£ At.JJ) A!JD 
H€'5 COMPI£1EI.Y 
WITHOf/T PIKUTION ... 
011.-HfJJ 'PJ»r WW, HY6/RL­YOU, FAr? FR/[ND/5 ((!1/N' 1 UP Ft!JM PUR/XJ£ SO 
N[ 'LL ff.O['}l8LY 
HAKt A TOLK!EN Aff'[ARANC£ AT TH[ [:IlNCE AND "btSAfK/Il ro TilE 
f:.m1 FOR. A t.JHIL£. tJI-IAT AI?£ YaJ DOIN6? I 
Berke Breathed 
~~~ 15 NOT; HOW@Ie/?, W!TH(}(JT H/5 Ne€111.£-5HIIRP IN5r!NCT5 RJI? II 5NflPPY 
M£TilPHOR .. 
Mark Williams 
ND'f~ 1'1/Nl>. 
I 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
Songwriters of the Old West 
presents: 




i2QNEY 
Wednesday & 
PIT

Thursday 
ARICHARD BENJAMIN Film 

7, 9, 11 pm 
$2.00 
Engineering Auditorium 

~  STUDENT PLANNING  
~  CALENDARS.  
iC iC iC iC  on sale TODAY in the dining halls ONLY $1.00  
~  

-include scheduled campus activities 
iC and useful campus information. 
-
~ --~--­

..-.--------­

Sports
page 12 Tuesday, September 22, 1987 
ND volleyball takes tourney, returns to full strength 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer  before winning, 11-15, 15-13, 8­15, 15-13, 15-10. In tHe late game the Irish had an easier time  "It gets difficult to put your defense together correctly," said Lambert. "Moving Shea  
There is good news all around  with their host, Eastern Ken­ back to the middle was the dif­ 
for the Notre Dame women's  tucky, 15-11, 15-7, 15-5.  ference. We played the last two  
volleyball team.  The tournament continued  games with two competent, ex­ 
First, the team fought its way  Saturday with two marathon  perienced middle blockers.  
through four tough matches to  matches. Notre Dame dropped  Those two games tell the  
win the Eastern Kentucky In­vitational and raise its record  the first game to Cincinnati, 10­15, but came back in the next  story." "We had to keep the momen­ 
to 9-2.  four games, 15-10, 15-5, 13-15,  tum," said Shea. "We kept at  
Second, Irish coach Art Lam­ 15-10.  them and didn't give in like we  
bert expects two of his top  That victory put the Irish in  have before. It was a long  
players to return from injuries  the championship game  match and ·a long day, but we  
soon to put back together the  against Rice. Lambert's team  didn't give up."  
combination that led the team  again lost the first game, 7-15  Notre Dame played eighteen  
last year.  and won the second, 15-11. After  of a possible twenty games in  
"I was delighted with the  dropping the third, 10-15, Lam-·  winning the Invitational.  
tourney," said Lambert. "We  bert moved Maureen Shea  "We sure did get a lot for our  
had to try a number of different  back into the middle.  money," said Lambert. "I was  
combinations because of injur­ The adjustment paid off as  not overly happy with the tech­ 
ies, but we came out ahead."  the Irish won the last two  nical aspects, but really  
Friday the Irish went to five  games and the championship,  pleased with the mental part of  
games with William and Mary  15-6, 15-7.  the game.  


Freshman sensation Ce Ce Cahill defeated three top players from the University of Indiana to high­light a big weekend for the Irish women's tennis 
Cahill, depth fuel Irish tennis 
By STEVE MEGARGEE tournament, but Notre Dame's Resa Kelly and freshman Kim 
Sports Writer Cahill was not the most polite Pacella and sopomore Jackie 
of guests. Uhll and Illig wone their 
During the last four days, Ce The freshman from respective doubles flights. In 
Ce Cahill showed how much she Hinsdale, Ill., turned into a all, the Irish took the champi­
means to the women's tennis "Hoosier Killer" over the onship in four of the eight 
team, and the rest of the Irish weekend, storming her way draws in the tournament. 
proved that the team has past three Indiana players to "I felt that we were much 
enough depth to win without win her singles flight. Two more aggressive over the 
Cahill. NCAA-ranked Hoosiers and weekend," said Gelfman. "In 
The result was a splendid one nationally-ranked Indiana singles we were able to mix up
performance in an individual freshmen were among Cahill's our shots better and stick to our 
flight tournament at list of victims. Only one of In­strategies and game plans.;' 
Bloomington, Ind. and an 8-1 diana's players forced her to a 
rout in a dual meet with Mar­third set. Notre Dame had to meet 
quette that left Irish head "She rolled over the Indiana Marquette at home in the Eck 
coach Michele Gelfman talking players, I think they were a Pavilion on Monday for a 
about the bigger things next little surprised," Gelfman fourth consecutive day of com­
spring. said. "She was a one-woman petition. Despite the absence of 
"The NCAA's the pot of gold show. It was incredible. Cahill, who missed the dual 
at the end ofthe rainbow," said "It was great for the team. match with the flu, the Irish 
Gelfman. "I think it's about She has a way of motivating defeated the pesky North Star 
time Notre Dame women's ten­other people on the team. The Conference rivals, 8-1. 
nis made a statement at the winning got contagious." The Irish had to juggle their 
NCAA's." It certainly did. Junior lineup one hour before the 
Notre Dame's four days of Natalie Illig also won her match started because of 
action started with the Midwest singles flight and went 7-0 for Cahill's illness, but Notre 
Invitational last weekend. In­the weekend including singles Dame came out on top in 
diana, consistently a Top 20 and doubles matches. The 
team, hosted the three-day doubles teams of sophomore see CAHILL, page 9 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
team at the Midwest Invitational. Steve Megargee has the details of the Invitational and a win over Marquette below. 
"I was really happy with really well, but we still had Maureen Shea, Kathy Cunnin­trouble on defense." gham, and Kathy Baker," con­
The Irish have done well, but tinued Lambert. "They did Lambert is looking forward toyeoman work." 

having all his players healthy. "Shewman was an integralLambert's team is playing part of the team last year," hewell despite injuries to key said. "Her timing is off; she'splayers. The Irish lost Whitney at about 65 to 70 percent effi­Shewman to surgery and Mary ciency. She and Waller willKay Waller to an ankle injury. 

both be back soon." SheaBoth are expected back in the agreed that the Irish will im­near future. 

prove when her teammates"You run into trouble when return.

you play with a patchwork 
lineup," said Lambert. "We're "With Mary Kay, we have a 
doing great considering the cir­really tough block," she said. 
cumstances. "We've played as a team for a 
while. We have a real together­

"We've lost our middle ness." 
blocker and had to go with "When we get back to being 
some inexperienced players or full strength for the first time 
our best utility player, all year," Lambert said, "then 
Gretchen Kraus. They've done I'll be happy.'' 
Field hockey earns first win of season 
By KATIE CRONIN our heads. We really wanted 
Sports Writer the win." 
Irish head coach Jill Linden­

In a battle of tartan kilts the feld had good words for the 
Irish field hockey team reigned defense after the team's first 
over the Alma Scots 1-0 last win of the season. 
Friday afternoon in Michigan. "M.J. had a great game," Lin­
The only goal was scored 45 denfeld said about Beetel's 12 
seconds into the game by right saves. "The defense had a good 
wing Debbie Charlesworth on game. They played well 
a cross from left wing Annie through repeated corners." 
McGlinn. After this intial offen­The Irish offense took a total 
sive strike Notre Dame fought 26 shots on Alma's goal, but 
strongest on defense, success­were unsuccessful on all but the 
fully fending off Alma's 16 first. "Our offense hasn't 
penalty corners and 13 shots on clicked yet. We haven't been 
goal. able to mount up a consistent 
"It was a tight game to the attack. It's an inexperienced 
end," said co-captain and line. They're not used to 
goalie M.J. Beetel. "We were playing with each other. It just 
committing some frustrating needs a little time," said Lin­
fouls in the circle and had to denfeld. 
keep facing their penalty cor­The Irish will get another op­
ners. They had three consecu­portunity after a full week of 
tive corners in the last few practice. They play Purdue in 
minutes. They were fired up to West Lafayette this Saturday 
score at the end, but we kept morning at 9 a.m. 

SMC tennis perfect 
By ANNE GALLAGHER troduced to the transition from 
Sports Writer high school to college play in 
her grueling three-hour contest 

Emerging from three divison against Tracey Johnson of St. 
matches undefeated, the Saint Francis. Mayer lost the first set 
Mary's tennis team annihilated 5-7, but came back and handed 
the competition this past week Johnson two straight losses, 7-5, 
and now boast an 8-0 record. 6-4 to win the match. 
"We were much stronger at "What it came down to was 
every position," said Coach that Sarah wanted it more," 
Debra Laverie. said Laverie. 
The squad shut out Goshen The veteran Heinz teamed up College, 9-0, on Sept. 15. Not a with Block to upset the single set was surrendered to Cougar's doubles team of the Mapleleafs as Jennifer Toma Hainline and Tracey Block, Sarah Mayer, Charlene Johnson, 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. Szajko, Elizabeth Heinz and "This was a big contest be­Jane Schnell all won their cause in our last four attempts matches in straight sets. we lost to this doubles 
Freshman Mary Turk es­team,"said Laverie. 
caped a close first set, 7-6, but Saint Mary's faced Anderson 
handed competitor Kim Leuz a College in the last meet of the 
6-1 loss in the second to win the week. The Belles overwhelmed 
match. the Ravens, 9-0. 
The Belles dominated the "We were coming off a big doubles positions winning all win and I was very impressed three in straight sets. with the players' concentra­
The apex of this three game tion," said Laverie. series came against St. Francis Concentration and good College. coaching are what keeps the 
"This was a big one for us in Belles winning on the court. division competition," said "So far our record is pretty Laverie. "We totally encouraging and I attribute it dominated except on one court to our coaching," said Schnell. which was a close match." "She's fantastic. She makes us 
The freshman Mayer was in-want to win." 



