Nickie's -page 3 


VOL. XXI, NO. 79 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Student to appear before grand jury on fatal accident 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 
A county grand jury will decide today whether to indict a Notre Dame student in con­nection with the Dec. 6 accident that killed junior Michael Cogswell. 
The 21-year-old student has been subpoened to testify before the grand jury in St. Joseph County Superior Court, the county prosecutor's office said. 
Notre Dame senior Douglas Meier said he also was sub­poened to testify at the hearing, which is closed to the public. Meier said he was driving in the area when the accident oc­curred. 
The six-member grand jury will review police records and listen to testimony to deter­mine what charges, if any, to indict the student on, the pros­ecutor's office said. 
The student was arrested on the charge of driving while in­toxicated after he submitted to two blood-alcohol tests, said Cpl. Mary Potter of the county police department. 

The prosecutor's office did not charge the student, but in­stead sent the case to the grand jury for review. 
Potter said the student told police he was driving east on Saint Mary's Road, stopped at a stop sign, then went forward and hit an unknown object. 
Michael Cogswell, a Zahm Hall resident, died from mas­sive head injuries 10 hours later. 
One of his roommates said Cogswell was walking home with two friends when he was struck. They were returning from a party at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse, he said. 
The two friends are par­ticipating in foreign-study pro­grams this semester, he said. Receiving your cue They apparently will not return Pool shark John Kenney of Zahm Hall takes to testify before the grand jury. aim while brushing up on his billiard skills in 
Reagan tells nation he ''regrets'' selling arms to Iranians 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan tJld the nation Tues­day night that he now regrets his failed risk in selling arms to Iran but, despite the continu­ing furor, "will not sit idly by if our interests and our friends in the Middle East are threatened." 
He said he did not want to see an America that had become "so obsessed with failure that we refused to take risks that could further the cause of peace and freedom in the world." 
The president delivered his sixth State of the Union address as the Pentagon shifted its overseas naval forces in what one source described as a response to recent hostage­takings in Lebanon. 
Reagan said relatively little about the situation in Lebanon and used the bulk of his remarks to lay out the agenda for the last two years of his presidency. 
In introducing wide-ranging remarks involving America's competitiveness overseas, its relations with the Soviet Union and its budget problems at home, he said, "Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Congress, why don't we get down to work?" 
Democratic congressional leaders, responding to the pres­ident in their own televised remarks, said they were will­ing to cooperate with Reagan, but that he must first answer questions about the sale of arms to Iran and whether he intended to swap arms for hostages. 
"The administration's recent dealings with Iran have cast a long shadow over this country," said Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia. "The sale of arms to Iran -in direct contradiction to our stated foreign policy-­raises x:eal questions about trust." 
"The administration has the obligation to tell the American people exactly what led to the arms-for-hostage deal--and what happened to accoun­tablility in the White House," Byrd said. 
The president's speech was broadcast live from the cham­ber of the House of Represen­tatives before a joint session of Congress. Smiling and looking fit, Reagan was applauded warmly as he returned to the public eye after a month's ab­sence following the holidays and recuperation from pros­tate surgery, 
Reagan said it was not wrong to try to establish contact with a nation of strategic impor­tance and "certainly it was not wrong to try to secure freedom 
for our citizens held in barbaric captivity." · 
He added, "But we did not achieve what we wished, and serious mistakes were made in trying to do so." 
Reagan said his administra­tion had made progress on many fronts but "I have one major regret. 
"I took a risk with regard to our action in Iran. It did not work and for that I assume full responsibility," Reagan said. 
While mentioning mistakes, Reagan did not say he, specif­ically, was guilty of any. Unlike his earlier statements on the subject, Reagan--in a single sentence--linked the effort to open contacts with Iran with trying to win the release of the hostages. The administration insisted previously that release of hostages was merely a byproduct of establishing a re­lationship with "moderate" elements in Iran. 

Dorm relcoation proposal discu~ssed by HPC 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
A proposal for the relocation of the residents of Howard, Holy Cross and Carroll halls was discussed at Tuesday night's Hall Presidents' Coun­cil meeting. 
"The idea is to plan now and get some input before (the ad­mininstration) makes their decision,'' said Student Senator Brian Holst, who collaborated on the proposed program with Holy Cross President John Powers and Carroll President Tim Salmon. 
"The proposal is going to be effective in three years, but of course we don't know how it's going to work," Holst said. Ac­cording to Holst, the proposal is "a fair and favorable means of relocating displaced resi­dents without adversely affect­ing the residents of halls which are to remain open." 
Holst said the proposal recommends that no freshmen be admitted to either Carroll or Holy Cross Hall in the last year of its existence as an under­graduate residence. 
"We've got a limited number of spaces and the housing office has already got names for them," said Carroll Hall Pres­ident Tim Salmon. "We're just trying now to determine how many spaces we've got be­cause we've got guys coming back from overseas so we're trying to get that coordinated," Salmon said. 
The relocation program proposes that "members of a displaced hall should hold a 'dorm pick' within their hall in the same fashion as they would conduct regular 'room picks', only a few weeks earlier. A 'dorm pick' would allow resi­dents to choose the hall they want to move into, in accor­dance with availability. 
"During 'dorm picks', a stu­dent would be able to pull in up to three of his fellow residents with him," the proposal states. The proposal also recommends that each dorm be required to 
see HPC, page 4 
Reagan did not offer any new revelations about the arms sale and later diversion of profits to Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
While pledging to find out the facts and take any necessary action, Reagan said that "in debating the past, we must not deny ourselves successes of the future. Let it never be said of this generation of Americans that we became so obsessed with failure that we refused to take risks that could further the cause of peace and freedom in the world. 
"Much is at stake here and the nation and the world are watching to see if we go for­ward together in the national interest, or if we let partisan­ship weaken us," Reagan said. 
He added: "Let there be no mistake about American policy : we will not sit idly by if our interests or our friends in the Middle East are threatened .'' 

Lee's Grill correction 
Because of an editing er­ror, an article about a Jan. 16 raid of Lee's Ribs was reprinted in the place of a story on a Jan. 25 raid. The information regarding the more recent raid is con­tained in today's inside column and a brief on page 2. 

r 
t 


In Brief 
Three arrests were made Sunday during the second raid in two weeks of Lee's Grill and Bar-B-Q. Ar­rested for disorderly conduct and resisting law enforce­ment was Timothy A. Kerper, 21, of N. Notre Dame Ave. Arrested for false informing and being a minor in a tavern was Julie A. Whiteman, 19, of LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's. Maria A. Vitek, 19, of Glenview, Ill., was arrested for being a minor in a tavern. All three were taken to St. Joseph County jail and booked Sunday morning. -The Ob­server 
A crew from "60 Minutes," CBS-TV's news-magazine program, is on campus this week filming a profile of Father Edward Malloy, president-elect of the University. Morley Safer, a co-host on the program since 1971, will interview Father Malloy. No broadcast date has been set. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Debate Team won four individual speaker awards at the Michigan Intercollegiate Speech League Championships last weekend. The first four speaker awards were given to Notre Dame students Mike Monberg, Paul Bielski, Rob Hennig and John Failor, respectively. The team of Monberg and Hennig took third place with a 3-1 record and the team of Failor and Bielski placed third with a 3-1 record. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
AIESEC, the International business organization, is sponsoring a general meeting for all prospective members tonight at 7 in room 220 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
The Freshman Advisory Council will hold an open meeting tonight at 7 in room 124 Hayes-Healy. All interested members of the Class of 1990 are invited to discuss upcoming freshman events. -The Observer 
The ND Undergraduate Philosophy Club will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 210 O'Shaughnessy. Members and prospective members are invited to attend. -The Observer 
''The Culture of the Poor --Is Equitable Development Possible?" is the subject of a lecture by Karuna Mary Braganza Thursday at 4:15p.m. in the An­nenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh will introduce the lecture. Braganza, distinguished Fulbright scholar and general secretary of the All India Association for Christian Higher Education, will visit Notre Dame and Saint Mary's today through Saturday and will address several Notre Dame classes and attend activities in the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Wednesday, January 28, 1987-page 2 

Lightning strikes twice when it comes to Lee's raids 
A flyer for Saturday night's events at Lee's Grill and Bar-B-Q declared that "Lightning 
· never strikes in the same place twice." Lightning's been comin' in pairs ever since. Law officers rained upon the bar like bolts from above Sunday morning, making three ar­rests and leaving 10 cited students in their wake. It was the second time in two weeks that the bar has been invaded by officers from South Bend, Indiana State, and Indiana State Excise police forces, according to Lt. Richard Kilgore. Seems as if Lee's is cursed for even uttering the words. The Observer became the curse's next victim when it printed a story about the first bust for the second time in Tuesday's edition. Another second: Sgt. Greg Deitchly of the Indiana State Excise Police led the joint oper­ation, just as he led the first. The citations were also the same the second time around: charges for being a minor in a tavern for alllO, according to Kilgore. One difference was the incredible number of patrons cited in the first raid --this one did not come near the new high of more than 200, set by the Lee's raid of Jan. 15. Three custodial arrests were made, Kilgore said. For Lee's, how long will this curse last? Can the bar survive it? The recent citations and arrests are state liq­uor law violations for which Lee's is liable, Kil­gore said. A meeting has been scheduled for today between the owners and the Alcoholic Beverage Commission, according to Gale Lighthall, a worker for the restaurant-tavern. Lighthall said he will attend the meeting. The ABC fined The Commons $1,500 on Nov. 10 of last year and closed the bar for five days after investigating a Dec. 15, 1985 raid. The Commons was charged with allowing minors to loiter after the raid. More citations were delivered in the Jan. 15 raid on Lee's than ever before in South Bend. The location of the bar that formerly held this dangerous honor is now a vacant lot. Another thing that may come out of the latest raids on Lee's is tougher police tactics regard­ing charges and arrests. One of those arrested in the Sunday morning 
Tripp 
Baltz , 
News Editor 


bust was given the same charge for which ten others were only cited. 
Lt. Kilgore said this was because the oolire record showed the patron~ried to hide in a crowd when law officers entered the building. 
Conduct "primarily differentiates who gets arrested and who gets a citation," Kilgore said. 
Kilgore said it is the arresting officer's prerogative to decide whether a patron should be arrested or cited. 
Kilgore added that patrons who try to escape while a bar is being raided can be charged with resisting law enforcement. 
The events over the last two weeks demon­strate that the police are cracking down harder on the underage drinking package: fake IDs, entering taverns and escaping from raids. 
They're trying to indicate that lightning sometimes strikes twice. 
-The Observer 

The Dis mas Recruitment Lunch, to introduce 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday
the Notre Dame community to to the Dismas House pro­gram, will be offered Thursday from 11:30-1:00 p.m. at 

thrqugh Observer advertising. 
the Center for Social Concerns. All students interested in 

Call 239·5303 tqr details.
living in Dis mas House next year are encouraged to attend. 
-The Observer 
A Basics Of South Africa workshop will be offered tonight at 7 at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Recruiting Students for Academic Year 1987-88
Peter Walshe will lead the introduction to the apartheid system and policies that exist regarding it today. -The 


To Live in DISMAS House 
Observer 
The Big Brother;Big Sister Program will hold elections for on-campus officers in early March. In­terested students should call John Eustermann at 283-1066. 


~?~A_
-The Observer 

• 
~VF


Weather 
New ice age? No. Wrong. Try 
DISMAS of 
partly sunny and liigh near 30 today and maybe even 35 tomorrow. Granted, it 


Michiana, Inc. 
will probably snow tomorrow, but what does that prove? The end of civilization? No. So why don't all you petty little doom­saying prognosticators of the apocalypse 
Undergraduate, graduate, and law students invited. Room and Board is
back off and watch T.V. like the rest of us. -Associated Press 
$225.00 per month. Beautiful home downtown South Bend. Experience a warm caring community for the purpose of helping former prisoners adjust. Applications available from Kathy Royer at Center for Social Con­
Dengn Editor ................. Kathy Huston Accent CopJI Editor ....... Mike Naughton 
cerns, 239-7862. Pick up application at lunch Thursday 12:00 noon at
De1jgn Auulant . . Andy Fenoglio Accent Layout.... ....... Melinda Murphy TJipeleller . . Becky Gunderman Tuput . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......... Esther Ivory ........................................... Michael Buc ND Dau Editor ................. Susan Coene 
Center for Social Concerns. Application deadline is February 271 
New• Editor.............. . . . . Ann Kaltenbach SMC Day Editor ............. Monique Kelly COJIII Editor . . ... . . . ................ Bud Luepke Ad De.ign .......................... Joan Wrappe Sport• COJIII Editor ............. Marty Burns Sport• Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen Viewpoint CopJI Editor ........... Bob White Sport• Wednesday De1ign .. Matt Breslin Viewpoint Larout .......... Kathleen Moran Photographer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Todd Tucker 
Tille Oblen« (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the 
The Observer Is always looking for talent.
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas· 
ed for $40 per year ($2~ per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
AMERICAN 

If you have any. come to our offices 
Dame, Indiana 46.5.56. 

CANCER 

Tille Oblen« is a member of The Auoclaled Pras. All reproduction rights arc 
and start working on your newspaper.
• SOCIETY~

reserved. 
* 


The Observer 


Former owner of Nickie's tavern forfeited $1,000 in bond money 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Nick Bilello, former owner of Nickie's tavern, forfeited $1,000 in bond money last week to the city of South Bend. 
Bilello failed "to repair the code violations which were placed on the building," said Larry Clifford, code enforce­ment hearing officer. 
"Bilello was in on a demoli­tion order and said he would like to have the demolition or­der set aside. He wanted the opportunity to fix the repairs," said Clifford. 
In order to convert the demolition order to a repair or­der, Clifford asked Bilello to post a bond. "He promised to perform as promised, and if he failed to perform, the bond would then be forfeited." 
Clifford said the bond was posted at 10 percent of the total estimated damage cost. "The damages were set at $10,000, so the bond equalled $1,000." 
Clifford said he issued an or­der form on Oct. 13, "categori­cally setting out five (types of) items that had to be repaired by Nov. 28." 
The five categories took all of the code violations and broke them down into specific code violations on the premises, ac­cording to Clifford. 
The violations ranged from holes in the roof to electrical and plumbing problems, said Clifford. 
"He (Billelo) only met two of those items." 
"I ruled there had not been substantial compliance to make repairs," said Clifford. 
John Gourley, Bilello's attor­ney, felt ''the city of South Bend should have been a little more lenient and understanding." 
"We feel the fact that we posted the cash bond showed our good faith," Gourley said. 
Gourley said Bilello had trou­ble getting a certain roofing contractor because "the con­tractor had other jobs lined up, and we don't think the city gave us enough time to make the re­pairs." 
"Our position was there are a many buildings that are worse off than the building Mr. Bilello owns," he said. 
Gourley said he thinks the city is "trying to get rid of the tavern by using selective en­forcement. They seemed hell­bent on getting rid of it." 
The property and the liquor license have been for sale for over a year. Gourley said the building and the license are being sold separately. 
The tavern closed in July 1985. "Mr. Bilello was dis­gusted with the way the bar had been run in his absence. The manager had allowed entrance to minors, and the bar was raided in Bilello's absence," Gourley said. 
Career & Placement Services Presents 
Brian Brennan 
V.P. & Director of 
Corporate Staffing Michigan National Corporation 
speaking on: Career Opportunities In an Era of Interstate Banking Wednesday, January 28, 1987 
7 p.m. Notre Dame Room -Morris Inn -· Reception to follow 
Michigan National Banks: 
Discover a new attitude in banking 
At Michigan National Banks, we have a new attitude toward banking. It's evident in our progressive philosophy, innovative 
Our encourage­

products and services and dedication to new technology.lt's 
ment of initiative,

also evident in our appreciation of the enthusiasm and fresh 
independence and

ideas of recent college graduates. 
individual achievement We know you're eager to start your career as fast as inour employees has helped possible. That's why we get you involved in the to make us Michigan's leading business of banking from day one. And, the provider of financial services for Michigan National team provides plenty consumers and middle market companies. of support to help you get your If you have an MBA or four year degree in training where it counts...on accounting, finance, business, economics or liberal the job. arts, join a company that is challenging the traditional and establishing new attitudes in banking. 
We'll be conducting on campus interviews on Wednesday, February 18th. Please see the Office of Career Planning & Placement for additional information. Equal Opportunity 
Employer. 
~Nadonal Banks 
The smart moneyis with us 
Wednesday, January 28, 1987-page 3 


Remembering the challenge 
AP Photo 

Some 50,000 students, teachers and parents from 67 public schools located nearby the Kennedy Space Center take part in a flag raising program to honor the crew of Challenger. 


COUNSELINE Volunteers Wanted!!! 
==-='1,,.,_.-.:...~ 

We're in operation again 
but a bit short-handed for now. We still have a few 2 hour shifts to fill. So, if... 
-You want to help prov~de a valuable community service to ND/SMC 
-You can spare just a couple of hours 
of easy volunteer work In a nice study envlronmnet (the number and manner of handling calls Is rarely demanding) -You could use something extra to 
look.nice on your resume or, application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask for David at the University Counseling Center or Just leave a message. 239-7336. 





Weekend closing time altered at Theodore's 
By GREG LUCAS Staff Reporter 
The Office of Student Activi­ties has ordered Theodore's to close at 2 a.m. instead of 3 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays be­cause of damage to the LaFor­tune Center, according to Vince Willis, club manager. 
''There is some damage being done in the building and it's being blamed on the people in Theodore's," said Willis. 
Ceil Paulsen, assistant direc­tor of Student Activities, declined to comment on the na­ture of the damage and on the order to close Theodore's an hour earlier. 
According to Willis, there has been no damage to Theodore's since the Penn State game in November. "Nothing has been done in Theodore's since that first time," Willis said. 
"In the building there are other problems that I have been told are occuring between two and three a.m.," said Wil­lis, who was unable to describe the exact damage to the LaFor­tune center. 
Willis did not feel that closing Theodore's one hour earlier would significantly reduce the potential of damage being done to LaFortune. "The crowd be­tween two and three usually has been there and leaves at three. Most people do not come between two and three," said Willis. 
"If you close at two, it's like taking away one-third of the most valuable time," Willis said. "Not only do I think (the order's) not necessary, I think it's detrimental," Willis added. "There should be a place on campus to socialize after parie­tals," said Willis. 
"I can see why the adminis­tration is concerned with main­taining the building, but I think there are better solutions than closing an hour early," Willis said. Willis was optimistic that an alternative agreement could be reached. "I do think that if we come up with an ap­propriate plan, the administra­tion will be receptive," said Willis. 


HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
make a minimum of 7.5 percent 
of its total capacity available 
to students displaced from 
other dorms. 
"We don't want to send too 
many people to a dorm, unless 
the dorm wants that," said 
Holst. "If, say, 100 guys from 
Holy Cross wanted to move into 
Carroll, they would probably 
take over, it wouldn't be Car­
roll Hall anymore," he said. 
"It's inevitable that some­
one's going to get (the short end 
Correction 
Information about the Net­work of United Sisters' meeting was incorrect in Monday's Minority Aware­ness Week story. Rosemary Phelps of the University Counseling Center will be a guest at the meeting. 
Senior Month 
is coming! 

Any Senior interested in 
planning Senior Month 
(as a Committee Member or a Chairperson), Please Call: 
Fred 272-6054 John 28.3-1666 Jenny 284-5148 Leah 28.3-.3917 Karen 284-5227 
MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL MARKETS CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE 
is currently accepting applications for the position of 
FINANCIAL ANALYST 
within the Midwest Corporate Finance Department. 

In selecting applicants for the position of Financial Analyst, Merrill Lynch looks for a record of outstanding academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and work experience, and demonstrated leadership qualities. Analysts must be exceptionally articulate, able to write effectively, and able to work well with others. Although no particular academic majors are required, some background in accounting or statistics and familiarity with computers is helpful in indicating an ability to readily acquire the tools needed for quantitative analytic work. 
Upon completion of this two year program, Financial Analysts are generally able to enter a graduate business or law degree program at a leading 
university. completing professiona Many return to Merrill Lynch their advanced degrees to build l careers in investment banking.  after their  
If you  Becoming a Candidate: are interested in being considered for this program, send resume to:  
Jenny Grantham Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 5500 Sears Tower Chicago, IL 60606  
Please respond before February 15, 1987.  

of the bargain)," said Salmon. 
In other business, the Council discussed the Buzz Bus and drinking and driving. "The HPC Alcohol Committee met twice and came up with two recommendations," said Stan­ford Hall President Jim Wim­biscus. 
"First of all, we're thinking about a taxi service, where someone at a bar or a party gets drunk and then takes a taxi to the dorm. The RA on duty would have money, that he was provided with, to pay the taxi driver. The drunk per­son would either pay then or at a later time," Wimbiscus said. 
"We're going to push the Buzz Bus again," Wimbiscus said. "On campus we're going to try to have a free coupon with a schedule on the back; that way, everyone would have a chance to ride it," he said. 
According to Wimbiscus, the Buzz Bus will run on Thursdays as soon as a driver for that night is found. HPC Co­Chairman Joanie Cahill said ridership for the Buzz Bus is approximately 100 students per night. 

APPLICATIONS 





CLUB FUNDING 
FOR SECOND SEMESTER ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 3RD FLOOR, LaFortune. 
Deadline is Friday, January 30 

The Minority Concerns Committee of Student Gov't proudly presents a lecture 
by 


Dr. Jacob H. Carruthers Director of the Kemetic Institute in Chicago 
entitled: "The Relationship Between Ancient Egyptian Civilization and Greek Philosophy" 
When: Wed., Jan. 28, 1987 at 7:00pm Where: Memorial Library Aud. Free Admission Reception to follow in Library Lounge 

The Observer Wednesday, January 28, 1987-page 5 


Rebels hold out inside TV station; Aquino: Attempted coup crushed 
Associated Press the station for more than two fected soldiers to take power
hours and at dawn he told since Marcos fled the country
MANILA, Philippines--reporters Canlas had sent a 11 months ago and Mrs. Aquino Mutinous soldiers held out in­message saying he had not became president following a side a walled television station finished consulting with his contested election. today, long after President men and was not ready to make The rebel soldiers and Corazon Aquino announced a decision. civilians seized the complexthat the loyal military had Ramos then left the area but housing Channel 7 and radio crushed an attempted coup. said, "This cannot go on in­station DZBB in part of a pre­
Gen. Fidel Ramos, com­definitely." He gave no indica­dawn coup attempt Tuesdaymander of the armed forces, tion that a move against the that included attacks on five gave those inside the building­mutineers was imminent. military garrisons in which one -about 160 troopers, 50 civilian Maj. Gen. Salvador Mison, rebel was killed and 16 were supporters of ex-President deputy chief of staff, said a gen­wounded. Ferdinand Marcos and a few eral and 17 other officers were Defense Minister Rafael policemen--a deadline to sur­behind the revolt and five had Ileto said 271 conspirators had render but then withdrew it. been arrested, but would not been arrested and at least 70 
Ramos went to the besieged name them. Officials said remained at large. station at 3 a.m. today and about 500 soldiers took part in Ramos said the mutineers spoke for about 45 minutes with the rebellion. were Marcos supporters who the rebel leader, air force Col. Marcos' supporters clashed wanted to destabilize the Osca Canlas. with security forces outside the country before Monday's 
Canlas told reporters Ramos station and police said at least nationwide vote on Mrs. ordered the rebels to leave the 34 people were injured, six of Aquino's proposed constitu­station by 6 a.m. (5 p.m. Tues­them seriously. tion, which guarantees her a day EST), but he said he asked Mrs. Aquino said earlier that six-year term. Ramos to extend the deadline "intensive military opera­About 300 Marcos supporters and the general "graciously al­tions" might be needed to oust gathered on EDSA boulevard lowed it." There was no indica­the rebels, and promised that late Tuesday near the broad­tion a new deadline had been they would be dealt with cast center, where they built set. severely. bonfires, hurled stones at 
After his meeting with The coup attempt was the police and shouted, "We want Canlas, Ramos remained near most serious effort by disaf-Marcos, we want Marcos." 
CONFUSED? 
PERPLEXED? 

AP Photo A Marcos loyalist waves a victory sign to rebel troops occupying television station channel 7 in Manila. Some 70 military mutineers took over the station in a pre-dawn raid. Story at left. 

BRUNO'S 

. 1t\a\ ~~t· 
®t\~ Follow 23 South to: ~ 2610 PnlrleAn. 
8outh8end 

288-3320 

Fre~ Delivery to ND and SMC campuses Spm to 1Opm monday through Saturday 
Special this month: 14 inch Pizza with 1 item $6.00 18 inch Pizza with 1 item $12.00 















"ieVV~_O_i_n_t_____________w_edne-sday,-Janu-ary2-8,198~7-pa~ge6 
Divestment would show committment to blacks 
"We are now faced with the fact that tomorrow is today. We are confronted with the fierce urgency of now. In this unfolding conundrum of life and history there is such a thing as being too late. Procrastination is still the thief of time. We must move past indecision to ac­tion. Now let us begin. Now let us reded­icate ourselves to the long and bitter ­but beautiful -struggle for a new world. This is the calling of the children of God, and our brothers and sisters wait eagerly for our response. Shall we say the odds are too great? Shall we tell them the struggle is too hard? Or will there be another message, of longing, of hope, of solidarity with their yearn­ings, of commitment to their cause, whatever the cost? The choice is ours, and though we might prefer it other­wise we must choose in this .crucial mo­ment of human history." 
Martin Luther King 
Marty Rodgers 
guest column 
Last semester an event took place which seems to have been glossed over by many on this campus. All around us there has been a call for tough action against the sin which is apartheid. But Notre Dame and perhaps this has been true of the nation as a whole is in no apparent rush to help-perhaps because those in need are people of color. 
'How can we expect them to be committed to blacks in another country when they are not even committed to blacks currently at­tending their own institution?' 
The event: ''TheNational Conference of Catholic Bishops urged Roman Cath­olic dioceses and institutions to strip themselves of their holdings in compan­ies operating in South Africa or per­suade those companies through stock­holder resolutions to withdraw business from that country." The Times article continues stating that "the recommen­dation is expected to affect hundreds of millions of dollars in the investment portfolios of this country's vast network of Roman Catholic institutions -184 dioceses, 19,313 parishes, 850 religious communities, 200 colleges and univer­sities and hundreds of Catholic hospi­tals and charitable agencies.'' I guess they should have said 199 colleges and universities since Notre Dame should not be included. 
IBM has divested. Kodak has divested. Coca-Cola has divested. GM has divested. The British National Bank has divested. Bishop Desmond Tutu has called for divestment. Winnie Mandela has called for divestment. The African National Congress has called for divestment. The Notre Dame Stu­dent Senate, the Notre Dame faculty, the Notre Dame Black Alumni Confer­ence, the Notre Dame Black Student Union have all called for divestment. And, as you now know, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops has called for divestment. But Notre Dame has remained steadfast and foolhardy. 
Let's face it, Father Hesburgh, Fa­ther Williams and the predominantly white Board of Trustees know what is best for the poor downtrodden black masses. Tutu and Mandel a live with the atrocities, the degradation, the humiliation, the injustices, the murders and the violence every day, how can they possibly know what is best for their people? Martin Luther King, Jesse Jackson and Medgar Evers obviously didn't know what was best for blacks during the Civil Rights Movement did they? But perhaps I am being a little too tough on them you say. And indeed this may be true for how can we expect them to be committed to blacks in an­other country when they are not even committed to blacks currently attend­ing their own institution. How can they be attentive to blacks there when they are not listening here? 
Picture this situation: an admissions counselor is standing in the midst of a room packed with minority high school seniors telling them how Notre Dame is Catholic, how socially concerned Notre Dame is, what a great place it is and how much they want minority stu­dents to attend Notre Dame. Then a black student raises his hand and asks whether or not Notre Dame has divested. Response: no, number of ap­plicants: none. What message does the University send to blacks across the country? As the premier Catholic insti­tution in the country, what message does it send to Catholics across the country? Notre Dame is living a lie, contradicting the ethical constructs upon which the very foundation of the University rests. 
Would the response be the same if the people involved were not people of color? Regretfully, I think not. The fal­lacy of Notre Dame's stance may be evidenced by another example. A couple of years ago when the African situation of starvation finally came to the attention of a long-since ignorant American population, the Archdiocese of Philadelphia sent the three million dollars it raised in the annual Catholic Charities Appeal to Poland to purchase toys and cribs instead of feeding the hungry. Similarly Notre Dame and the nation is not in any rush to help because those imperiled are not white, are not Irish, are not Polish are not Italian...and thereby not of primary concern. The blacks of South Africa are not viewed as true "brothers and sisters" and consequently though they "eagerly await a response" it shall not be forthcoming for there exists no "solidarity" with them. They are not worth the "cost." 
In this "crucial moment in human history" Notre Dame with its tauted Christianity and white purity has cho­sen "not to act". In the light of the "fierce urgency of now", Notre Dame has chosen "procrastination". We have told them "the struggle is too hard" and "the odds are too great". (Indeed Father Hesburgh has apparently wearied of the fight. Having been so intimately involved with the Civil Rights Movement perhaps he is too tired to recognize his inconsistencies. Father Hesburgh, would Martin Luther King shake your hand today?) Notre Dame has issued a hypocritical mes­sage which it shall prove to regret. I was always told that inaction in the presence of wrong was just as sinful as the wrong itself. Is not Notre Dame an accomplice to this sin which it says it abhors? It is time to stop talking, cut the lip service, and act. Otherwise how will they know that we are truly Chris­tians? 
If we continue to wallow in the valley of indecision and inconsistencies, then what Bishop Tutu said of the West in general may be directly applied to Notre Dame: it can "go to hell". For in not hearing and responding to the cries of the children of South Africa, Notre Dame has neither heard nor responded to the "calling of the children of God". 
Marty Rodgers is a junior economics major. 




P.O.BoxQ 
Accidents caused by a lack of responsibility 
Dear Editor: 
After reading Kevin Trautner's and Sean O'Brien's letter of January 16th, I have suggestions for the two. 
First, they should read up on the laws of the state of Indiana, which prohibit drinking for anyone under the age of twenty-one. 
Second, they should check the ·u.s. Constitution, especially the amend­ment regarding unreasonable searches and seizures. 
Third, they should look up the defini­tion of the word "responsibility." 
This school's strict alcohol rules did not kill Michael Cogswell. An allegedly intoxicated student killed Michael Cogswell. One of the aims of the Uni­versity's alcohol policy of 1984 was to encourage responsible use of alcohol by 


Quote of the day 

"Men desire to be in control because they are afraid that con­trol by others will be used unjust­ly to their detriment." 
Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) "Living Philosophies" 


Ihe ObserYer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the vle"'s of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski 
students. Unfortunately, some students did not react to the policy's implica­tions with responsibility, leading to tragic consequences. Letting the beer flow on campus again will not not rec­tify this tragic problem (Michael could just as easily have been killed in front of the Grotto as opposed to Saint Mary's). The fault lies squarely on the shoulders of the people who were drink· ing and who were involved in the acci­dent last December. It does not lie on the administration's shoulders. It does not lie on Father Beauchamp's shoulders. 
Until all students here take respon­sibilty for their actions and their drink­ing, no administrative action will prevent deaths like Michael Cogswell's from happening again. 
Michael J. Barron Jr. Off-Campus 

Doonesbury ·Trudeau 
JOANIE THINKS JEFF ISN'T 
5EEIN6 ENOl/GH OF Hl5 PAR­HOUS&­ENTS. IUE PEOPEI? I 5HOUW 

IUIMPl

STN:TTAKJNGCARE OF HIM WRING HOI&· THcl¥/Y. 

IJIIMP! 
I 

Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November 3, 1988 




Accent 
Wednesday, January 28, 1987-page 7 

The war of sexes is over! 
ND's 'fat chicks' and 'insecure boys' find peace 
&Jitor's Note: Today The Ob­server concludes its examination of women's progress at Notre Dame 15 years after females were first admitted to the Univer­sity. 
ROBIN SQUYRES features writer 

T
he girl took a deep breath, hitched up her voluminous, tent-like sweats, and stood up. She clutched her Calculus book to her chest for courage as she began the journey to end her craving for something sweet...something smooth... ice cream. 
From long experience, she knew tonight was mint chocolate chip night. She crept around the milk machine, fervently hoping no one would notice her. 
But it was too late--there they were. The Notre Dame Men. Laughing. Uproariously. "Fat chick, fat chick," they chanted ... 
So, you ask, what is it really like to be "a woman at Notre Dame?" Amazingly, completely erroneous stereotypes are ram­pant. 
Is it a life of pure bliss-­thousands of men lined up to date the few eligible girls? Or is it a life of pure hell--sexism, chauvinism and basic nastiness constantly directed toward the innocent, outnumbered female intellectuals? 
Oddly enough, when one in­vestigates the stereotype situa­tion on an individual level, it ceases to exist. Yes, my friends, CEASES TO EXIST. 
The women do not seriously feel the supposed tension vibes the men are supposedly sen­ding. and the men say of course they don't really mean the stereotypes they throw about so casually. 
Now let's get this straight--are we to infer that the massive, male! female tensions at Notre Dame that have been the object of probing psychological studies for years are no longer a valid excuse for meaningful subject matter? Apparently, an era has come to an end. 
As a residual effect, though, some predjudices remain. "It's harder to find girls' bathrooms around here than guys'." ob­served an anonymous female student. 
"The days ofNotre Dame being 
a male-dominated school are 
over, and everyone has to realize 
that, "says Sandra McBride, a 
sophomore. 
While we're discussing the 
Notre Dame female stereotype, 
It would only be fair to include 
their supposed "hatred" of Saint 
Mary's students. Everyone knows 
a Notre Dame girl will stop short 
of nothing to maim or kill a SMIC 
chick, right? 
Is this a fantasy created by Notre Dame men who love the illusion of women clawing at each other over SYRs? Or a sad but true story of frustrated, com­petetitlve females? 
Sure, you'll catch the occas­sional grimace as you mention the females "across the road, "but the deep-seated hatreds simply do not exist. 
"Most NO girls are ingrained with a little tension, but they al­ways admit they know nice girls at St. Mary's," says McBride. "Notre Dame and St. Mary's girls are more than happy to meet each other at parties." 
"I don't think that people take the stereotype as seriously as they put across," says Chris Murphy, a Flanner Hall resident. He adds, "I personally look at It as a joke." 
There are some actual facts that have given way to ugly tension-causing rumors. For in­stance, It is common knowledge that it is harder for a female to get into Notre Dame than a male. Thus, the average female of the last few years here is said to be of superior Intelligence to the average male. 
The university is presently in­creasing female enrollment to better balance the ratio. The greater number of female slots will hopefully lessen the female disadvantage, and the accompa­nying male inferiority complex. 
Women's support groups have been started to cope with the "special problem of being a wo­men at Notre Dame," but have actually died from lack of inter­est. 
Is that to say there are no prob­lems? There are always insulted individuals rampaging about, but the majority of the student population enjoys a peaceful coexistence with the opposite sex (under the constant superv­sion of du Lac, of course). Jibes below the belt are com­monplace, but that's human na­ture. 
We have our fun mocking each other because we're not allowed to do much else. But at least we can thank Notre Dame for honing our sense of keen wit and stimulating conversation. 

_. • ~~A# -:...._· -...:. ~ ;... ..-<1111!-.. -'
. 

~­
... meanwhile, Howard braces for a sex change 
GINA CAMARENA features writer 

C
onversion of Howard Hall into a women's dorm will begin the day after commence­ment, according to Physical Plant Director Don Dedrick. "The process is a very simple one," said Dedrick, since both men's and women's dorms are easily interchangeable." Basically, the only renovation will be done within the lavatories, and is scheduled to be completed before the start of the Special Olympics this summer. 
Residents of Howard continue to feel "angered," "upset," and "disappointed" in the way the ad­ministration conducted the af­fair. The issue now concerning the residents is how they will stay together next year. 
Hall President Jim Bradford said "they (the administration) did not give us much ofan option to stay together." Howard resi­dents were only guaranteed that groups of six men could be placed in the same dorm, but not necessarily room together. As a result, he said, "residents plan to move off-campus next year-­many to Campus View." 

However, Bradford also stated that the situation could prove to be a positive one, because now residents "realize how much they really like Howard Hall." 
Bradford believes that the delayed notice of the conversion of Howard was a "political move to stop any demonstrations or protests." "During finals week the residents were too busy to do anything about the notice," said Bradford. 
Other Howard residents ex­press mixed emotions about the conversion. Although resident Doug McLaughlin plans to "stay on campus" next year he has not decided where he would like to live. McLaughlin also felt that "everyone now realizes how much Howard really means." 
Resident Matt Kelty said his "anger has changed to frustra­tion." Kelty said, "I realize the opposition is useless, but there are many things that can't be ac­counted for." Kelty is disap­pointed in the administration for their "insensitivity" toward the residents and for "not presenting their reasons more clearly." 
Although freshman Bruce Haikola has not lived in Howard long enough to "feel close to the others," he is still upset about the conversion. Haikola also said that meeting new people next year will be a challenge. 
Resident John Piecyk is disap­pointed in the administration and is upset about the Howard change. "(Howard) is an intlmat community--everyone is con­cerned about everyone," said Piecyk. He also thought it was a "rude" gesture for girls to exam­ine the dorm the same day the residents received their eviction notices. 
The conversion of Howard and the building of two new women's dorms is part of the attempt to equal the male-female ratio at Notre Dame. The two new dorms will be constructed between the Memorial Library and Pasquerllla East and West. 
Many Howard residents have suggested that the new dorms be expanded to accommodate the number of females that will be living in Howard. However, "the buildings are filling capacity and the cost effective is too 
reat," accord in to Dedrick. 

,_______________________ 
The Observer Wednesday, January 28, 1987-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
ND running backs coach Mike Stock has taken a job as the special teams coach for the Cincinnati Bengals, it was announced yesterday. The 47-year old Stock just finished his fourth season of a second tour of duty on the ND coaching staff, working under Irish coaches Ara Parseghian, Gerry Faust, and Lou Holtz. -The Obser­ver 
The SMC basketball team lost to Goshen College, 74-59, last night at Goshen, Ind. The Belles were led by high-scorer Tammy Radke's 17 points. -The Observer 
ND football managers will have an organizational meeting for all potential freshmen managers tonight at 
7:30 in the ACC football auditorium. Any interested fresh­men are invited to attend. The 1986 highlight film also will be shown. For more information call 239-6482. -The Ob­server 
Wrestlers tune up for big weekend by facing undefeated Boilermakers 
By STEVE MEGARGEE coach Fran McCann of the diana State, we used to shut Sports Writer Boilermakers. "They're Purdue out. But this is the best definitely in the top twenty, and Purdue team I've seen since 
If the Notre Dame wrestling since they've beaten I've been coaching in the Mid­team was hoping to face the nationally-ranked Michigan west." toughest competition possible and Michigan State, they're While Notre Dame's 1-5 dual in preparation for this probably around the top ten. meet record is far below weekend's National Catholic It's been a long time since Purdue's unblemished mark, Tournament, the Irish are Purdue's been in the top ten." McCann isn't about to concede definitely getting their wish. Although Purdue has not anything to the Boilermakers. 
Just four days after losing to traditionally had a strong wres­"We're going to give them all perennial national power Ne­tling program, overall team they can handle. Looking at our braska, the Irish will face an balance has led the matchups with them, it will be undefeated Purdue squad Boilermakers to a 10-0 start. a good meet," said McCann. tonight at 7 p.m. in West "They're solid up and down "We're in as good shape as Lafayette, Ind. the lineup, and they're very we've been in this year, and 
"They're the surprise team physical," said McCann. Purdue better be ready to of the Midwest," said Irish "When I was coaching at In-wrestle." 
Bookstore Basketball XVI applications for assistant commissioner are now available at the secre­tary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due by 5 p.m. Friday, Jan. 30 and follow-up interviews will be held the following week. For more information contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will have a meeting for anyone interested in playing indoor soccer topight at 7in the basement of Breen-Phillips. Ifyou cannot attend but would like to participate, contact Kerry Haverkamp at 277-8159. -The Observer 

Bunek 

continuedfrom page 12 
my parents could come watch me. It was far enough where I could grow up but close enough so if I had to get home I could. My parents come to absolutely every home game I have. They're very supportive of me. And I came mainly because of the education." 
The Irish have faced several adverse situations this season, particularly the loss of three players. Bunek admits that it has been very tough on the team but says that it certainly will not keep them from playing their best basketball. 
"You have to put things into perspective," she adds, "and be very positive. You have to think of it as a challenge to the team. It's a tough experience but we'll be better in the end." 
The Irish have been improv­ing with each trip out on the court, so the Flyers of Dayton and first-year head coach Sue Ramsey will face a stiff chal­lenge at 7:30 tonight in the ACC. Fans who go to support the Irish can say hello to Mr. and Mrs. Bunek. They'll be the ones cheering the loudest when £44 puts the ball in the hoop. 
IRISH ITEMS -Junior center Beth Morrison was lost for the season Monday when she suf­fered a knee injury in practice. 
The Obserwer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classllleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-<lay classilieds Is 3 p.m. Ail classilieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day_ 
NOTICES WO<dproceasing-Typing 272-8827 WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS COKER, 233-7009. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  CALL  Reward!! Help me get my wallet, chain, and ring back I Incredible sentimental value. No questions asked. Please help. Call 1986 or 1987 with info. Rewardll LOST: at Bridget's sometime near the end of December--a BLACK MEN'S COAT. Keep the coat but PLEASE return theROOM KEYS In the pocket. 356 Alumni. LOST: BLUE LL BEAN NAPSACK AT SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE, I NEED MY GLASSES AND MY NOTES. IF FOUND, CALL 4659 OR LEAVE AT LOST AND FOUND.  Students needed to help save lives. Watch T.V. and earn extra money . New donors or former donors who haven't donated plasma in the last 30 days will be paid $1 1 .00 following Initial or return donation. Bring this ad to: American Plasma, 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. 5 blocks west of Burgllr King on US 201 Llncolnway West. Phone 234-6010. Open Tues., Wed., Fri., and Sat. Wanted students with medical back­ground Who are avaliable to work 9-5 shift on Tues.. Wed., Fri., or Sat. Starting pay 4.25 per hour. If interested bring resume to American Plasma, 515 Lin­ I need 1 stud. tick. to the North Carolina game this Sundayl Big bucks guaranteedll Tom £1251 NEED 1 NORTH CAROLINA STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET. CALL MIKE AT 2180 I need 2 NC GA's-John 1722 Need 1 GA for Marquette game. Call Marla at 2687. ................................................................ HELPII NEED TICKETS TO THE NDMU GAME ... PLEASE CALL MARGIE 284­5230  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week, 10-530 ph. 233­2342. Bring in this ad and receive $5 off every order of $50 or morel For the ultimate in sound, music, person­ality, and fun call. .. ENTERTAINMENT UNLIMITED the professional disc jockey service. We're NO's best! Ask for Brian  Summer Service applications deadline is February 2. Students work in social ser­vice for 8 weeks in return for a $1200.00 tuition scholarship. For more information contact the Center for Social Concerns.. 239-7867. "'CATHLEEN TOPPIN"' "'CATHLEEN TOPPIN"' "' KATHLEEN TOPPIN "' Thanka lor the grot time-you were AWESOMEIII Now, can I have my underwear beck? Your Favortte DOG  
SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our new loca­tion: 808 Howard St., just ofl of N.D. Ave.  LOST: G.E. WALKMAN WflADIO ON !OARS, JANUARY 22 AT SAGA. PLEASE HELP CALL 284-5271 LOST--STUDENT BASKETBALL  colnway West, South Bend. 234-6010. RIDERS wanted to ST. LOUIS--THIS WEEKENDII(Jan.30-Feb.1)Call ROB at 1151 NOWif  HiiPi·i-N'iiE·o·2·rici<·e-rs·;;oF!·rHE'·N: CAROLINA B-BALL GAME PRICE IS NO OBJECTifl CALL STACEY 3497  1645. THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY FAVORS GRANTED!  JOHN ANDREA Happy 18th birthday I Dee. John, and Ryan  
OPEN 7 days a week 10-530, ph. 233­2342. Bring In this ad and receive $5 ofl every O<der of $50 or morel All students are Invited to attend an ex­ercise condnlonlng program to be held In the north dome of the A.C.C. The ses­sions which will be progressive will run from Feb. 2-Mar. 11 on Mon., Tues., Thurs., and Fri. afternoons from 5:00­6:00 p.m.  TICKET (Before West Virginia Game) If found Please call Mark, £2151. Thank You. HELPI I LOST A PAIR OF TORTOISE­SHELL GLASSES IN A ROYAL BLUE CASE SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LaFORTUNE AND PW ON W3. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL KIM AT 2845. LOST GORETEX THINSULATE  HIRING PART TIME HELP Plua Hut wants drivers w~h own car and in­surance.Call277-2662 or stop by 138 W Dixie Way No. In Roseland. Campus travel representatives needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Earn money, free travel, and outstanding marketing experience. Call Inter-Campus Programs at 1-800-433-7747 for details  FRIEND GOT MARRIED!! WILL TRADE 2 SAT. REVUE TIX FOR 2 THURS OR FRI CALL LEE 272-601 9 I NEED 1 STU OR GA FOR N.C. X 3831. NEED 2 NORTH CAROLINA STUD. TIX CALL JAY AT 1679 I need Duke GA's. Call Cathy at 2892.  MECNOISE CONCERT S.t., Jen. 31 8p.m. $5 at the door Stepan Center apona. by SAB Athletic, well groomed, morally secured male; Looking for sincere friendship, Early 20's. Black hair, brown eyes, 165  "LEWIS 4TH FLOOR" FROSH ARE HOT" TO THE LEAD SINGER OF '"THE BOT­TOM LINE" Lightening does strike twice, huh? We didn't come back, but we'd still like to see you In action. Call us-6 chicks­£1283.PS How's the Swede? It's Go To Hell, Carolina Week  
JPW MASS LECTOR AUDITIONS: 3 READERS ARE NEEDED Weds. Jan. 28 from 12 to 1 and Mon. Feb. 2 from 4 to 5 at Sacred Heart Church. Pick up copy of the readings at student activities ofllce In LaFortune. We've got the BALLS and the brooms, so sign up today f0< the WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEY at the SAB offices, 2nd floor LaFortunelll \ LOST/FOUND l LOST: completed cross-st~ch needle work of a HUMMEL pattern LmLE GABRIEL --CALL Brother John -6284 LOST CLASS RING FAP 87 Call Fred 288-2821 REWARD LOST at NO Apt psrty, one navy CB down  GLOVES ON SOPH SKI TRIP REWARD 3178 FOUND SKI POLES ON SOPH SKI TRIP 3178 LOST...GOLD BEAD NECKLACE.LOST ON DEC.15TH IN NO LIBRARY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X3763. FOR RENT ROOMMATE WANTED to share two bdrm. apt., Turtle Cr. 200mo. ¢elec., call Don, 272-3779 NEED 2 ROOMMATES, SENIORS, TO FILL LARGE 6-MAN HOUSE NEXT YEAR. FOR INFO CALL MATI 1045 3 BDRM HOUSE for '87-'88 school year NEAR CAMPUS-GREAT NBHD call PAT  and information mailer. ................................................................ FOR SALE '85 VW Cabriolet • Excellent Condnion 21 ,000 Miles • Still Under Warranty • Ken­wood Stereo ' AC • Priced Below Book • Call 277-4361 SNOW TIRES: two, brand-new, Fire­stone, mounted, 7.35-15, replaces 6.50­15 (fits VW bug, etc.), call Matt at 4415 '81 FORD CROWN VICTORIA, 4-DR, V­8, LOADED. 232-9533 EVENINGS ONLY. BUY THIS CAR, I'LL TELL YOU ~~~..:.~..~~.~:..~.~-~=~·....................... I TICKETS I -•  NEED 2 NORTH CAROLINA G.A.'S CALL MONICA 4041 WILL PAY BIG MONEY IIIII NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR NC GAMEICALL TOM-1774 HELP. NEED 4 TIX FOR N.C. WILLING TO PAY WHATEVER. CALL 4095. I NEED ONE TICKET TO THE No-NORTH CAROLINA GAME SUN­DAY. PLEASE CALL MICHAEL AT 283­1644 Desperately seeking 2 N. Carolina GA'S. $$$$$ Call Terri Drew-284-4350. ( PERSONALS Part-time mktg. pos. on campus. Paten­tlal to make $&tlr. Call Cindy at 1-800­592-2121.  lbs. 5'6" and lonely. I hope to hear from you. All responses are welcomed and answered. Write to: LeMOINE Arrington, 8180981, Box-149, Attica, NY 14011 ......................... .......................... MAUREEN ERNY'S BIRTHDAY IS, YES YOU GUESSED IT, 2 DAYS AWAYI I BET YOU CAN HARDLY STAND IT MOl Are you in a campus band? Would you like some FREE publicity? Contact Mary at either 239-5313 or 272-3833 before Friday. Janet Brewer hope you have a great birthday today. Love-your 6-A section. Need ride to Bowling Green on Sat. Call John-2035 WANTED: ONE KNOWLEDGE HAM­MER. Willing to pay BIG BUCKS. Call Max at 1384. Need 1 GA for Marquette game. Call Marla at 2687.  AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH • STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME. Got that, Dupree? .\ii~~ii~~··ih~· ..o~ii~;~··i;··2i·iT~··-y~~k"~· Wedge, Zulu, Duflers-Lets do It again...Molsens, 1057 Green Signs, Siberia & the Arctic wind, Adult Trivia, Budget Rent-a-Toilet, Flipper, Water­melons, HOT DOGS, Blue Eyes, Cyclops, Bootlegger Sanger, Its a won­derful life, The Cure 1 more time, The big blaack dog, Couch Rash, Home again Home again Jiggety Jog, A tickel a ticket. LETS GET WIDEll ................................ I need to switch 2 SATU.ADAY KEEi-JAN REVUE tix with 2 for Friday. If you can help please call 284-5481.  
jacket with light blue stripe. Call Mark at  288-5006  Need Ttcktrhl Deapa111tely to both the  
288-9548 0< drop at 728 PE ...............................  Nortll Carolina and Duke b..katball gamea. Either atudent or GA'a. Call  HUMAN LEAGUEII  Jeff-Thumper-Abraham turns 21 today Call him 1081 to give him kisses & shots  F!id~ ..~·~;,·~;;·b~~k··~~~~;;;~··;;~;;;· Mi~;.;;  
Found-a DETEX outside of Senior Bar weekend of Jan. 18. It ~ could be yours,  WANTED  Eric at 272-9123.  HUMAN LEAGUE!!  (Ohio) on Sunday 2'1. Call before W9.  284-4444  
" .  call John at 1706. FOUND: Sum of money found on South Quad. Call 283-2344.  SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed  HELP II Mom and Dad are coming! 1 DESPERA TEL Y need 2 Carolina GA's Will pay BIG$$ Call Keratin 4036  HUMAN LEAGUE IS COMING Ill HERE? NOll CHICAGO? YESIII Riviera  Helplll Need to switch our Thursday Keenan Revue tlx to Fridayl Please call Kathy, 2824 or Scoop, 3637  Barb, K~iiY'. Kl;.;: ·G;;;;;; i~~k·~~ ..~·,;:;;;~·. Remember Snausages always. Love, Vee  
FREE vacation plus $$$  Night Club, Chicago Sunday, February  
LOST TAN WALLET. PLEASE FIND. REWARD IF RETURNED. CALL 2017 LOST: gold chain with pearl charm call  1-800-237-2061 Summer job interviews-Average earn­ NEED UNC TICKETS CALL NANCY 277-5626  15 $18 cash-tix and bus $in SAB oflice by Thursday, Jan. 29111  KATHY BEARY hits the big 2-o today !Ill Call her at 2068 or stop by 217 Lyons and give a big birthday hug to the cutest sophomore on the second floorll  Beware all SMCND women: Sean T. and Jlmbo are on the movel  
Elise at x2769  Ings $3,400. Gain valuable experience in  WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOUR­ 
FOUND -Brown thick down jacket, on the Weds Senior Chicago trip bus that came back to the Main Circle. Possibly belongs to "Chip." Call Carle at 2855. I lost my light blue key chain wt six keys.  advertising, sales, and public relations selling yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame campus telephone direc­tories. Opportunity to travel nationwide. Complete training program In North Carolina. (Expenses paid) Looking for enthusiastic, goal-oriented students for  "URGENT" Need 4 DEPAUL tixs FAST, -Call Jackie x2683 I NEED ONE GA TO THE NC GAME CALL CALL ROB x 1756  NEVIII sign up at SAB offices, 2nd floor LaFor­tune. BROOMBALLIII B~OOMBALLIII  WANT TO LEARN MORE ABOUT DIS­MAS HOUSE? OR HOW ABOUT A GOOD HOME­COOKED LUNCH?????? Come jOin us for lunch at the Center for Social Concerns  WINTER FEST '87 BROOM BALL TOUR­NEVIII sign up at SAB ofllces, 2nd floor LaFor­tune.  
II has two 1 03 keys, and a X224 key.  challenging,  well-paying  summer  job.  BROOMBALLIII  Thursday, Jan. 29  I  NEED  ONE  TICKET  TO  THE  
The key chain Ia the top halt of a number  Sign up for interviews with University  Need 2 Duke student tlx; willing to trade  BROOMBALLIII  11:30-1:30  No-NORTH  CAROLINA  GAME  SUN­ 
one (£1 ). II you have found It, please call Danny at x1719.  Directories at Career & Placement Ser­vices by Jan. 30.  2 Keenan Revue tix or $$$ Call Ray or John 2990  BAOOMBALLIII  The cost Is $3.00  DAY. PLEASE CALL MICHAEL AT 283­1644  


Januar 28, 1987 The Observer page 9 
ahead of the rest of college bas­ketball for much of last season. They are coached by the legen­dary Dean Smith, so legendary that Carolina's arena bears his name, even though he is still living. Despite those lofty ac­complishments, the Heels felt the need to offer suggestions to the officials. 
Most fans remember last season's tight battle in the heart of Carolina country. The Irish gave the Heels a run, but eventually fell. Smith and his center Brad Daugherty were not satisfied with the win, though. They were less than enthused with Phelps' version 

ND AVE APTS. 
arly Bird Specia 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount Call 234-6647 by Pinkerton Security Agency 
of the Bruise Brothers, Tim Kempton and Jim Dolan. To emphasize the point, it was sug­gested that the Heels don tear­away jerseys for this year's battle. 
One would have to wonder why the superior team, after winning a game in which its op­ponent had played very well, would find the need to chastise the officiating. There are enough legitimate complaints that need to be addressed with­out wondering if Brad Daug­herty got roughed up a bit. 
Officials have an impossible job, but it is still frustrating to see blown calls. The key is to adjust to their style, if at all possible, and make them as in­significant a part of the game as possible. Complaining about officiating is a dangerous game, and it can blow up in your face. 
The Irish will be substantial underdogs this Sunday. But if they can build up a head of steam against fellow indepen­dents Dayton and Marquette, anything can happen. Tear­away jerseys, huh? Who knows, the ACC could once again prove fatal to a No. 1 team. And then Dean Smith will have put his Heels in his mouth. 
The Observer is accepting ap­plications for the following paid position: 
Accounts Payable Clerk 
Interested Sophomore and Junior Accounting Majors should submit a personal statement to Alex VonderHaar by 5 PM on Friday, Jan. 30. 
3rd Floor Lafortune Student Center 

AP Top 20 
Basketball 

The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 2Q-19·18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. North Carolina (59) 17-1 1,236 2. Iowa (2) 18-1 1,141 3. Nevada-Las Vegas (1) 18-1 1,127 4. Indiana 15-2 968 5. Purdue 15-2 968 6. Syracuse 17-1 902 7. Temple. 18-2 788 8. DePaul 16-1 761 9. Alabama 15-2 666 10. Oklahoma 14-3 665 11. Georgetown 14-2 596 12. Illinois 14·4 585 13. Duke 14-3 564 14. Clemson 17·1 504 15. St. John's 13-3 348 16. Texas Christian 16-3 299 17. Pittsburgh 14-4 228 18. Auburn 11-4 196 19. Florida 15-4 123 20. Kansas 13-5 79 
Others receiving votes: North Carolina State 66, Navy 36, New Orleans 34, Ohio State 28, Kansas State 18, Cleveland State 17, UCLA 16, Virginia 15, Memphis State 10, Middle Tennessee 6, Michigan 5, Providence 5, Seton Hall 5, Kentucky 3, Oregon State 3, Tulsa 3, Arkansas-Little Rock 2, Maris! 2, Houston 1, Niagra 1 

Sports Lists 



THE IRISH ALSO PLAYED 


[}={] (Q)©~~w 
Schools with the most players selected in the NHL draft, 1969-1986 
Women's Basketball 
The Top Twenty college women's basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Texas (49) 17-1 1,227 2. Auburn (13) 16-0 1,189 3. TennessPe 14-2 1,097 4. Rutgers 15-0 1,049 5. Long Beach 16-1 995 6. Virginia 16-1 930 7. Louisiana Tech 13-2 877 8. Mississippi 16-1 795 9. Louisiana State 14-2 745 10. Georgia 14-3 594 
11. North Carolina St. 14-3 551 12. Ohio State 15-3 504 13. Iowa 13-4 492 14. Vanderbilt 15-3 445 15. Southern Cal 12-4 415 16. Southern Illinois 15-1 363 17. Penn State 12-3 301 18. James Madison 14-3 168 19. Illinois 13-3 95 20. Western Kentucky 11-5 62 
Others receiving votes: Washington 40, Villanova 28, Kentucky 9, Montana 8, DePaul 7, Holy Cross 7, Oklahoma 6, St. Joseph's 6, Oregon 4, Stephen 
F. Austin 4, Illinois State 3, Missouri 3, Houston 2, North Carolina 2, Oregon State 2, Tennessee Tech 2, New Mexico State 1 



Items 
continuedfrom page 12 
plaints should center on the of­ficials, not the opposing team. 
Of course, all of this protest­ing does little good. It sounds like sour grapes, even if the point is valid. Sometimes it can get a coach into trouble. If Notre Dame played in a con­ference, Phelps would prob­ably get a reprimand from the conference commissioner for his post-game comments. Since the Great Independents have yet to put together an of­ficiating crew, and don't have 
Restaurant And Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechuen and Hunan Taate 
Happy Chinese New Year (Jan. 29) All you can eat buffet 
Includes: soup, appetizers 
8 entrees and dessert Jan. 25 (Sun.) thru Jan. 29 (Thurs.) 
5:00p.m. -9:00p.m. 
Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272-7376 

South Bend,130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 
~n,.,-.~"""'~~~~~ 
a commisioner, he didn't. 
Notre Dame will continue playing UCLA, no matter how terrible the referees are, and no matter who Walt Hazzard thinks he is. Poor officiating is part of basketball because the game itself is nearly impossible to cover well. Mis­takes in the officiating are ex­pected, but they are magnified when they occur at the end of the game. Or if they occur in a big game. That brings us to Sunday's collision with the na­tion's top-rated team. 
The North Carolina Tar Heels boast the No. 1 squad in the nation. They were a step 
Sports Calendar 
Eaatarn Conference Atlantic Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  31  11  .738  
Philadelphia  24  18  .571  7  
Washington  21  20  .512  9.5  
New York  13  29  .310  18  
New Jersey  11  29  .275  19  
Central Division  
Atlanta  27  14  .659  
Detroit  26  15  .634  1  
Milwaukee  26  18  .591  2.5  
Chicago  21  19  .525  5.5  
Indiana  20  22  .476  7.5  
Cleveland  16  26  .381  11.5  
Western Conference  
Midwest Division  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Dallas  26  15  .634  
Utah  24  17  .585  2  
Houston  22  20  .524  4.5  
Denver  19  24  .442  8  
Sacramento  13  27  .325  12.5  
San Antonio  13  29  .310  13.5  
Pacific Division  
L.A. Lekers  32  9  .780  
Portland  26  17  .605  7  
Seattle  22  19  .537  10  
Golden State  23  20  .535  10  
Phoenix  18  25  .A19  15  
L.A. Clippers  5  36  .122  27  
Last Night's Results  
Atlanta 114, Indiana 98  
Philadelphia 108, New York 1 03  
Boston 105, Chicago 97  
Washington 118, Dallas 113  
Utah 92, Houston 88  
San Antonio 118, Detroit 1 07  
Portland at L.A. Lekers, late  
Milwaukee at Golden State, late  
New Jersey at Sacramento, late  



lnterhall Basketball 
Results from Jan. 21 to Jan. 27 
Women's Results Pasquerilla East over Badin, forfeit Breen-Phillips B over Farley B, forfeit Breen-Phillips A 51, Lewis B 11 Pasquerilla East 45, Lyons 32 Farley A over Farley B, forfeit Lewis B 30, Breen Phillips 8 17 
Men's Results Big Sky Stanford A over Off Campus A by a lot 
MaJor Independents Dillon B2 51, Grace B3 48 Flanner B3 35, OC-1 B 26 
PAC-10 Dillon B3 57, Flanner B1 42 Dillon B3 54, Carroll B 37 
Note: most scores were not available 

Wales Conference Adams Division 
w L T  GF  GA Pta.  
Montreal 25 22 7  179  169  57  
Hartford 25 19 6  163  162  56  
Boston 25 19 5  180  153  55  
Quebec 19 25 7  166  167  45  
Buffalo 14 29 6  162  192  34  
Patrick Division  
Philadelphia 32 13 4  206  136  68  
N.Y. Islanders 24 21 5  177  169  53  
Washington 20 24 7  164  189  47  
N.Y. Rangers 19 22 8  198  198  46  
Pittsburgh 19 22 8  181  174  46  
New Jersey 20 25 5  183  228  45  
Campbell Conference  
Smythe Dvlalon  
w L T  GF  GA  Pta  
Edmonton 33 14 2  231  168  68  
Winnipeg 27 18 5  177  170  59  
Calgary 27 22 1  200  197  55  
Los Angeles 21 22 6  206  204  46  
Vancouver 15 29 5  162  197  35  
Norris Division  
Minnesota 22 21 5  188  177  49  
Detroit 20 21 8  155  169  48  
St. Louis 18 22 8  166  186  44  
Toronto 19 25 5  170  180  43  
Chicago 17 26 7  175  204  41  
Last Night's Results  
Quebec 4, Hartford 2  
Pittsburgh 7, Washington 5  
Winnipeg 2, N.Y. Islanders 2  
St. Louis 2, Montreal 1  
Edmonton at Vancouver, late  
Tonight's Games  
Philadelphia at Buffalo  
Winnipeg at N.Y. Rangers  
Washington at Detroit  
Toronto at Chicago  
Vancouver at Edmonton  
New Jersey at Los Angeles  


ollege Basketball 
East Connecticut 66, Boston College 60 Fairfield 86, Yale 81, OT Loyola (Md.) 70, St. Francis (N.Y.) 65 St. Joseph's 83, Penn 81 Siena 70, New Hampshire 58 T ample 76, Rutgers 56 Wagner 83, Manhattan 70 Army 81, Fordham 73 Howard 80, Maryland-East Shore 63 St. John's 61, Villanova 58 
Midwest Notre Dame 66, Dayton 55 DePaul 70, Weber St. 51 Kansas 72, Iowa St. 48 
South 

Davidson 68, Furman 60 
Southwest Texas Tech 65, Midwestern St. (Tx.) 61 
Far West Oklahoma 87, Colorado 62 Home games in CAPS 
Today Women's basketball vs. DAYTON Wrestling at Purdue 
Thursday Men's basketball vs. MARQUETTE 
Friday Hockey vs. WISCONSIN-STEVENS POINT Men's swimming at Cleveland State Women's swimming at Cleveland State 
Saturday Indoor track vs. MICHIGAN Hockey vs. WISCONSIN-STEVENS POINT Women's basketball vs. MARQUETTE Men's fencing at Wayne State Women's fencing at Wayne State Men's swimming at St. Bonaventure Women's swimming at St. Bonaventure SMC basketball vs. ST. FRANCIS SMC swimming vs. CHICAGO and OLIVET 
Sunday Men's basketball vs. NORTH CAROLINA 
Wrestilng at NATIONAL CATHOLIC TOURNAMENT Men's fencing at Tri-State Women's fencing at Tri-State 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday Women's basketball vs. WESTERN MICHIGAN SMC swimming vs. KALAMAZOO 


lnterhall Hockey 
Gold Division Results Pangborn 3, Stanford 1 Zahm 3, Fisher 3 
Blue Division Results Off Campus 4, Cavanaugh-+loward 
2 Grace 4, St. Ed's+toly Cross 1 Off Campus 3, Dillon 1 Flanner 3, St. Ed's+toly Cross 1 

Voce's recent emergence lifts Irish 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI ures for rebounds last night, point opportunities to keep the Sports Writer grabbing three offensive and offense rolling. nine defensive boards. In addi­Even when he made defen­
For the first time in his tion, he went six-for-six from · sive mistakes, such as fouling career, junior forward Gary the field with two free throws, Dayton's Troy McCracken into Voce put two great perfor­along with two clutch steals. a three-point play, Voce did not mances together back-to-back While Notre Dame has had lose concentration. And as a for Notre Dame, leading the trouble putting teams away, result, Notre Dame would Irish to a win over Dayton last Voce took up the offensive and remain in the lead throughout night. Head Coach Digger defensive charge at several the second half with the help of Phelps, along with the student key situations in the second Royal, Mark Stevenson, and body, has recognized that Voce half. Voce initiated the first run Hicks. has arrived. when he put in a David Rivers' "I am not going to take shots 
airball underneath and then that are not there," said Voce, 
"We said in the preseason made a steal upcourt. "but if the ball comes to me on that the most important player At this point, the student a reversal then I will shoot it. coming back was Gary Voce," body began chanting "Voce" I think I can get more points said Phelps. "Gary was the guy for the first of several times in on offensive rebounds now. that had to step in. He had to the game. "I don't think (my team­do some things in the rebound­mates) were hesitent (about ing situations. According to Phelps, the key passing to me) before, it was 
"He as a JUmor has for the Irish was to get the big just my aggressiveness going responded to (Assistant Coach) man involved in the game. And after it, posting up and receiv­John Shumate in more ways Voce along with Donald Royal ing the ball. than the other players, which heeded the call. "As far as points, rebounds has made Gary a better player While Rivers was on the and total concentration, I on the boards as well as at bench and Scott Hicks was thought I was aware of a lot playing post defense (and) get­leading the offense, Voce that was going on. I can see a ting the confidence to score worked inside not only to clear lot more of what happens, and more points." the boards, but also to get im­I have been trying to take 
Voce again was in double fig-portant second shots and three-charge and talk a little more." 
sure to keep Dayton off­and Royal. balance. Anthony Corbitt, a 6-6 Stevenson was a perfect 4-of-


Dayton 
continuedfrompage 12 

freshman, led the Flyers with 4 from the field in the first half, who dumped in 17 points on the 14 points, while Noland Robin­with three more from the night. Notre Dame hit on 18-of-son added 12. charity stripe. The second half 23 from the line for the game. Dayton forced Notre Dame to belonged to Voce, who always 
"Dayton is a very tough team hit the outside shot with a seemed to show up in the right and those kids play hard all the packed-down 2-3 zone for the place at the right time to give time," Phelps said. "Defen­better part of the first half, and Notre Dame a boost. 
sively, I thought we played the Irish responded by netting pretty solid and we rebounded 13-of-20 (for 65 percent) in the well when we had to." opening 20 minutes. The Flyers 
The Irish played man-to-man then switched to a man-to-man defense the entire game, for the remainder of the game, mixing in some full-court pres-opening up the inside for Voce 


WED-Wine Coolers while they last (White Mountain and California) 
.50¢ 


THURS-Cheers and Beers Miller & Miller Lite 
.75¢ 

Rentals-Call Linda Ward 

277-6524 


********************************** 
Aerospace 
Engineering 

Georgia Institute of Technology 
Major areas of graduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D): 
Aerodynamics Controls, Alght Mechanics & 
Aeroelasticlty Optimization 
Combustion Propulsion 
Computational Auld Dynamics Structural Dynamics 
Computer-Aided Design Structures -Composites 
Individual tuition & fees are $} ,691 per calendar year. 
Total financial aid per calendar year: 
$13,000 C tuition and fees Selected Research Fellowships $9,00()1$13,5000 Research Assistants 
All graduate students will participate In research 
For further information contact: 
Dr. C.V. Smith, Graduate Coordinator School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 
(404) 894-3011 Office Hours: M-W 2-4:30 
*********************************** 

Is there Life after NO? 

-Beyond the parties -Beyond the football games -Beyond the books 
-., I 33 VI T F FE~ 
What awaits an ND grad in the real \Vorld? 


Find out from those who know. Come discuss "Life after Notre Dame" with Alumni Association members. 
When?Tonight 7:00-9:00 pm Where? Theodore's 
LaFortune Student Center 

Pizza and Soft Drinks will be served 






':11:'~~~~--------------------------------------------------------W•e•dn.e.sd•a•y•'•Ja•n•u•~•y•2•8•,1•9•87•-•p•a•g•e..
ll 

Bloom County Far Side Gary Larson 
''11ft 5CIIWt1/?.TZ{N€&&ff{ 
CHt5T eXfiiN/lel?. ~-­-IIICI?M5~ C/le'ff 5/Ze IINP .f6X 1/f'ftr/IL.. 
6Xfflf6N1111UY. " 


Beer Nuts Mark Williams 

... 

.......!!!1----~--------------------..~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
B presents : r SAB presents: iJ 


Campus 
9 a.m.-4:30p.m.: Winter Festival: Broom­
ball sign-ups in SAB offices, $3 per team, 
through Feb. 4. 
7 p.m.: Lecture: "Basics of South Africa 
Workshop" by Peter Walshe in the all­
purpose room of the Center for Social Con­
cerns. Questions will be taken afterwards 
7 p.m.: The international business club, 
AISEC, will hold a meeting for prospec­
tive members in 220 Hayes-Healy 
7-10 p.m.: Class series: "How to practice 
Natural Family Planning" given by Mrs. 
Fulnechy, instructor at Natural Family 
Planning of St. Joe, Hayes-Healy 
auditorium, sponsored by University Min­
istry of Notre Dame 
7, 9, 11 p.m.: Movie: "Tommy", Engineer­
ing auditorium, sponsored by the SAB 
8 p.m.: NQcSMC Charity Ball, organiza­
tional meeting, Danny Harrison and Jill 
Gollon will speak in the Annapolis room 
on the first of LaFortune 
The Observer Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Production Manager 
Interested applicants should submit resume and personal statment to Joe Murphy. Application Deadline is Wed. Jan 28 at 5 PM 

The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
3rd Roor LaFortune Student Center 

Second City Touring 
Company Thursday, Feb. 5th 7, 9:30pm Tix $4 Sold at Washington Hall Feb. 
3, 4 from 7-9 m 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Baked Ham Spirals w/ Italian Meat Sauce Seafood Newburg over Linguine Italian Sausage Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 

Morrocan Lemon Chicken Shrimp Fried Rice Fettucine Carbonara Deli Bar 
The Observer Is seeking an 
Office Clerk 
Duties include: •Typing •Mailing •Filing •Organizing 
To apply, stop up to the 3rd floor of LaFortune Center and talk to Joe or Chris. 




The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Turk. official 6 Apiece 
10 Loiter 14.-Green Moun­
tain name 15 Smite 16 Recess 17 Pogo stick 18 Tragedy 20 Gulf of Mexico 
port 22 Purposes 23 Sch. course 24 Broadway hit 25 Cicatrix 28 Hatred: pref. 30 Different 34 Fireplace 
ledge 35 False god 36 General at 
Antietam 37 Lavin role 39 Integers: 
abbr. 41 Verona's river 
©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
42 Ciphers 
All Rights Reserved
43 Much like 45 Little chap 46 Genuflected 7 Wing 47 Healed 8 Spotted 48 Full of mud 9 Veldt 49 Pride head carnivore 51 Verne 10 Overrun 
character 11 Set in bridge 53 Enliven 12 Plunder 56 Oozed in a way 13 _,.. out 
• 60 Fable (makes do) 62 River to the 19 Sofa 
Orinoco 21 Trance 63 Cabal 25 Hut 64 Adams of song 26 Panama port 65 Fruit 27 Sojourn 66 Reasonable 29 U.S. painter 67 Invitation 31 Western 
abbr. Hispaniola 68 As an example 32 Mystery writing award 
DOWN 33 Thin 1 Bygone days 35 Brutish 2 B.C. neighbor 38 Fellow 3 Tenuous prisoner 4 Assistant 40 Superficial 5 Prank 44 Roman road 6 Citizen of 47 Massages 

Tallinn 48 Swabbed 

1/28/87  
50 Playful  55 Mashie for one  
mammal  57 Whine  
52 Dolphins'  58 God of love  
home  59 Car damage  
53 Elec. units  61 Ullmann of  
54 Tinkly tune  movies  



~----~-----~­
Complaints about refs are becoming official bore 
It's official. The celebrated Notre Dame-UCLA he was bumped a few times without going to the are very tame. Hazzard was so incensed by the rivalry is getting ugly. And another similar situa­line, but that he didn't complain. He and his team­officiating in last year's contest, he considered the tion could arise in Sunday's North Carolina game, mates also suffered through poor officiating when possibility of ending the historic rivalry. Phelps' 
just because the referees have not been satisfac­the two teams hooked up in the ACC last year, protests never approached that magnitude. tory in the eyes of some coaches and a few players. and they didn't complain. Not like big bad Digger. Can't these officials please anyone? What a poor loser that Phelps is. Ending a rivalry as rich as Notre Dame-UCLA 
Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps saw his seems to be a ridiculous way to voice displeasure team lose a large lead in a small amount of time with officiating. Clarence Kay caught that pass in and cried foul. Pushing foul, slapping foul, and Rick the Super Bowl but the referee's incorrect call blocking--not charging--foul. somehow managed to slip through the grasp of In fact, Phelps said the referees in last Satur­Rietbrock the vaunted instant replay. But I never heard Den­day's game against UCLA were so pitiful they ver, or the AFC, threatening to stop playing Super 
lri~h Items

may have cost his noble warriors the ball game. Bowls. Bobby Knight shows his anger by throwing He said they were the worst officials the Irish had chairs, managers kick dirt at the umpires, and ever endured in 16 years at Pauley Pavillion. John McEnroe lobs obscenities. Digger Phelps Pretty serious stuff. decided to show his in the post-game press con­
Not everyone agreed with Phelps, however. ference. Officiating is a nearly impossible job that Most notable was Jerome Richardson, who pooh­will always turn Jekylls into Hydes. But the com-poohed the idea that UCLA received any favors from the officials. He went so far as to say that see ITEMS, page 9 

SRorts 
.­
Junior center Gary Voce (right) rolled up 16 
points and added 12 rebounds last night in 
leading the Irish to a 66-55 win over Dayton. 
Marty Strasen has details of the game at right,  refused to yield and rallied to  
while Mike Szymanski features Voce's emer­ within two points, 57-55, with  
gence this season in a story on page 10.  4:03 to go.  

Wednesday, January 28, 1987-page 12 
Irish survive UD rally, hang on for 66-55 win 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
There were times when one had to wonder whether Notre Dame had learned its lesson. 
After blowing an 11-point lead at UCLA this past Satur­day in a 63-59loss to the Bruins, the Irish looked to be toying with fire again last night, but held on with some clutch free­throw shooting to pull out a 66­55 victory over Dayton at the ACC. 
Notre Dame built an 11-point lead on four occasions in the second half, largely behind the strong inside play of 6-8 senior Donald Royal (17 points) and 6-9 junior Gary Voce (16 points, 
The Observer/ Robert Jones 
12 rebounds), but the Flyers 
"I thought we got careless at times and that's why I took David <Rivers) out," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. Phelps benched his star point guard for almost six minutes in the second half, leaving the backcourt duties to senior Scott Hicks. Rivers finished the game with only eight points, seven below his season average of 15.1. 
"I just thought he was trying to do too many things by him­self, and we've got to space him out for the rest of this week," said Phelps. "We just can't af­ford to be careless against good people." . 
The Irish then took control of the game with nine straight free throws to seal the win, four by sophomore Mark Stevenson, 
see DAYTON, page 10 
Dayton seeks revenge tonight 
Bunek, Irish aim at Flyers again 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The last time the Notre Dame women's basketball team faced Dayton, a conference championship was on the line. In a hard-fought battle in Dayton last March, the Irish pulled out a 66-62 victory and a bid to the Women's National In­vitational Tournament. 
Tonight the Flyers seek revenge as the two teams take to the ACC court for a 7: 30 con­test. 
A key factor in that game last year was the return of then­freshman Heidi Bunek to the Irish lineup. Bunek had suf­fered a stress fracture in her right leg early last season which kept her on the bench for much of the season. She returned, however, to average 
13.8 points and 12.8 rebounds over the season's last four games as the Irish soared to a third-place finish in the WNIT. Bunek now admits the return was difficult. 
"I missed fourteen games," said Bunek. "Coming back from that was hard because it was just like starting all over again. I watched all the games so I could progress mentally, but physically it was hard get­ting back into shape. But I worked hard and I knew it would pay off eventually." 
Pay off it did. Bunek, a native of Milwaukee, Wise., topped off her strong comeback by ear­ning a spot on the WNIT All­Tournament team. Now, as a sophomore, she has taken over as the team leader, averaging approximately 14 points and eight rebounds per game. She teams up with another Wiscon­sin native, junior Sandy Bot­ham, to give the Irish a strong one-two punch in the front line. 
Bunek's big contributions to the Irish are no surprise con­sidering the basketball success that she has achieved through­out her career. Named to six first-team All-America squads as a senior at Pius XI High School in Milwaukee, Bunek led her team to four consecu­tive state championships and was named Wisconsin's Miss Basketball for 1985. 
"We lost only two games in my high school career," said Bunek proudly. "We started a dynasty. My high school is going for its seventh consecu­tive state championship and is on a 55-game winning streak. That all started with us." 
Bunek attributes much of her success on the court to her sup­portive family, and her father in particular. 
"My dad is the one who got me started," she says. "I really didn't start playing organized basketball until the eighth grade and I was very thin and lanky. My dad put me on a weight program. We have a weight gym in the basement that is almost as big as the one here at Notre Dame. He taught me everything. He would work me for hours. I didn't have older brothers to play against like a lot of girls do so my dad was the one who taught me the game." 
This closeness with her fam­ily was one of the major reasons why Bunek chose to come to Notre Dame. 
"My final five schools were Texas, USC, Louisiana Tech, Notre Dame and Nevada-Las Vegas. I chose to come here be­cause it was close to home and 
see BUNEK, page 8 


·'j l l II 
44 
.. 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team will be counting heavily on leading scorer Heidi Bunek (above) tonight when it plays host to NSC rival Dayton at the ACC. Brian O'Gara previews the match at left. 





