----~~--~ 
---~­
Wet and warm
IACCENT: Hypnotist comes to campus 
A 70 percent chance of light 
rain and an an expected high 
of 40. Tonight expect a 50 per­
cent chance of rain.

IVIEWPOINT: Life after graduation 



VOL XXI NO 63 ONDAY DECEMB .. 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
,.. real close. I guess all the votes Brown finished the year with 
'· were in before last weekend 1,847 all-purpose yards and (the 24-0 Notre Dame loss to seven touchdowns. He was Miami)." named the National Player of 
Gordon Lockbaum, Holy the Year by both the Walter Cross' two-way threat, finished Camp Foundation and Scripps­third with 657 points, followed Howard News Service. He has by Michigan State tailback been named the first-team All­
Notre Dame's senior multi­

Lorenzo White with 632 and Pit­American by the Associated 
purpose back Tim Brown, 

tsburgh's running back Craig Press (the first time the APse­
despite stories in recent weeks 

Heyward with 170. Brown cap­lected a player as a return spe­
which made him a sudden un­

tured five of the six regions in cialist), the Camp Foundation, 
derdog to win, walked away 

the voting. McPherson won in the Football Writers Associa­
with this year'~ trophy Satur­

the Northeast. tion of America, Kodak
day night, far outdistancing 

"Right now, I think everyone (American Football Coaches
Syracuse quarterback Don 

around here, including myself, Association), Scripps-Howard, McPherson. 
is in a state of shock," Brown and Football News. ­
"I think it goes without 
said of winning. "I really don't 

saying, but I'm truly honored Brown holds Notre Dame to be standing before you Helsman voting, page 13 career records for pass recep­
today,'' Brown said in accept­tion yards (2,493), kickoff
know what to say about the

ing the award from Eug,me return yards (1,613), combined
Heisman. I think in a couple of

Meyer, the president of the kick return (2,089), kickoff
years from now, I'll realize 

Downtown Athletic Club. "I'd returns for touchdowns (3),
what it means.

like to take this opportunity to and punt returns for touch­thank my coaches, my team­"My first emotion was that I downs (3, all in 1987, which is mates, and definitely my par­just wanted to cry because I also a season mark). 
was sort of relieved that every­
ents for sticking by me through 

Brown is the seventh playerthe bad times and the good thing was behind me. I'm hap­from Notre Dame to win the py, everyone in my family is
times. God bless you all." 

Heisman Trophy, the most forhappy, and my coaches are
Brown finishes with 1,442 any school. Brown is the second 
happy. We don't know (where

points, 611 points ahead of player from Woodrow Wilson
the trophy is going) yet, but

McPherson's total of 831. After­High School in Dallas, which
we'll find a place."

ward, Brown admitted also produced 1938 winner surprise at the margin of vic­After the award, Brown Davey O'Brien. It's the first tory. received the obligatory phone time in Heisman history that "I thought (that the margin) call from President Ronald two winners have been from was real close after reading all Reagan. the same high school. 
The Observer I Trey Reymond "He congratulated me for Points are reached on a sys­
the articles and hearing all the 

With that ever-present look of determination, Tim Brown signals to comments on radio and televi­winning the trophy and told me tem of three points for a first the student section as he Is Introduced before the Alabama game sion," Brown said. "To tell you to say hi to my family," Brown this season. the truth, I thought ~t would be said of the call. see BROWN, page 13 

Protests in USSR and U.S. occur as summit nears 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Soviet and American officials, on the eve of Mikhail Gorbachev's arrival in Washington, hinted Sunday that a compromise on "Star Wars" testing is possible, while a massive demonstration in the 
U.S. capital and a violence­marred protest in Moscow un­derscored differences on human rights. 
Thirteen months after the breakup of the last superpower summit, Gorbachev heads to Washington on Monday for three days of talks with Presi­_dent Reagan and the signing of a treaty to eliminate intermediate-range nuclear missiles (INF) over three years. 

Both le~ders say they are op­timistic about making progress toward a bolder agreement to cut long-range strategic nu­clear weapons by half, paving the way for another summit by next June in Moscow. 

Acknowleding a shift in the once rigid Soviet opposition to Reagan's "Star Wars" missile defense plan, known formally as the Stategic Defense Initia­tive, White House chief of staff Howard Baker said the Krem­lin's position "now is a little dif­ferent than it appears to have been a few weeks or a few months ago." 
Interviewed on NBC's "Meet the Press," Baker predicted that Gorbachev would move forward on strategic-weapon cuts "perhaps without requir­ing as a precondition that the president abandon SDI or reduce SDI or postpone SDI, which he's not going to do." 
Meanwhile, a crowd esti­mated by police in the range of 200,000 took part-in a demonstration march and rally in Washington to press for free emigration of Soviet Jews. 
Led by author Elie Wiesel and Soviet emigre Natan Sharansky, the demonstrators carried signs asking "Where is glasnost for Soviet Jews?" and flags emblazoned with the Star of David. Some carried ban­ners with the names of people refused permission to leave the Soviet Union. 

"No camps and prisons can extinguish the light and candle of freedom," Sharansky told the crowd. 
Reagan did not attend the rally, but he pledged his sup-
see SUMMIT, page 4 


Survey verified, varied attitudes found 
By JIM RILEY  enough to reflect the attitudes  an integrated part of the Stu­ was  no  significant change in  
News Editor  of the student body as a whole, according to the students.  dent Body?" only 60 percent of graduate students said they did  the results of the questions per­taining to alcohol when  
Results of a second student  The students selected a rep­ compared with about 84 per­ graduate  students  were  in­ 
survey have confirmed the pre­ resentative sample of the ques­ cent of the undergrads.  cluded in the survey, Fearnow  
liminary findings of the survey  tions used by student govern­ Higher  percentages  of  said.  
sponsored by student govern­ ment  and  conducted  the  graduate students rated fac­ "We were able to get more  
ment,  but  they  have  also  surveys by phone.  ulty approachability  as  very  feedback about the questions  
pointed  out  some  differences  Most of the results were not  good or good than did under­ since (the survey) was done by  
between  the  attitudes  of  significantly different than the  graduates.  "This  could  pos­ phone," he said. This feedback  
graduate students and under­ results of the student govern­ sibly be attributed to the idea  pointed out weaknesses in two  
grads.  ment  survey,  said  Kathleen  that smaller classes for grad  of the survey questions, accor­ 
The  survey,  conducted  by  McGowan, one of the students  students give more one-on-one  ding to Fearnow.  
two statistics students, used a  who ran the survey.  opportunities,"  said  Kevin  
sample size of 100 students as  Differences  occurred  when  Fearnow,  the  other  student  Many students were unsure  
compared with the 1,100 stu­ graduate  students  were  in­ who conducted the survey.  where to place themselves on  
dents who answered the stu­ cluded in the survey.  The survey results suggested  the "How often do you drink  
dent government survey. But  In  answer  to  the question,  that drinking habits carry over  
the  sample  size  was  large  "Do you consider yourself to be ·  to grad school because there  see SURVEY, page 4  


New office on drugs begins work 
By ROBYN SIMMONS 
News Staff 
The director of the Univer­sity's new Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, David Dannison, began work last week aided by a $93,956 grant from the Department of Education. 
Dannison, a former thera­pist at Benton Harbor, Mi., said the office will be an-
see DRUGS, page 5 

Monday, December 7, 1987
page 2 The Observer 



In Brief 
Robert Bork, former Supreme Court nominee, may leave the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to join the conservative think tank American Enterprise Institute, according to a published report. Newsweek, in its latest issue, quoted sources close to Bork as saying he is preparing to give up his court seat, possibly by the end of the year. The magazine reported that Bork has told friends that he is bored with the administrative law cases that dominate the court docket. -Associated Press 
Eighty-nine percent of the Soviet people and 83. 
percent of Americans believe there would be no winner 
in an all-out nuclear war between the superpowers, accor­
ding to a poll released Sunday. The poll, sponsored jointly 
by Newsweek magazine and the Soviet press agency 
Novosti, also revealed that majorities of American and 
Soviet citizens feel positively toward the other side, al­
though each remains wary of the other side's system of 
government. -Associated Press 
Dieters who can hold the line -the waistline, that is -during the holiday season are winners in the weight-loss game. So many people have trouble sticking to diets after Dec. 15, according to an article in the current issue of Cosmopolitan, that diet counselors now advise just tread­ing water over the holidays. The Christmas season is a time of heightened emotions for most people, said Sybil Ferguson, founder of Diet Center, and feeling either happy or sad can make you eat more. There's one piece of good news for dieters. They can dive into the holiday turkey because there are only 187 calories in four ounces of light meat turkey with the skin on, and only 160 calories in dark meat without the skin. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
An Advent Penance Service will be held tonight at 10 in Sacred Heart Church. There will be the opportunity for individual confession following the service. -The Ob­server 
Applications are now available at the Campus Ministry Office in Badin Hall for the Notre Dame Encounter retreat (January 22-24). The sign up deadline is Dec. 18. -The Observer 
Aaron Moropol ofPIRG (Public Interest Research Groups) will lecture on an opportunity to learn more about alternatives in the public research arena today at the Li­brary Concourse from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and at the Center for Social Concerns from 2 til 5. The lecture is open to all seniors. -The Observer 
Rock Over London will feature a recently released recording of U2's 'Maggie's Farm' from Ireland's Self-Aid concert last May. The show will also feature new. music from The Christians, Alan Parsons, and The Voice of Beehive, along with the UK Top 5. Rock Over London will air tonight at 12 on 88.9 WSND-FM. -The Observer 
SUB Musical Director Applications are due 
today in the SUB office for the student players' musical 
next semester. -The Observer 
Amnesty International will hold its second annual 
write-a-thon tonight from 7 to 10 at Theodore's. Refresh­
ments and music will be offered. -The Observer 
Jugglerdistribution will begin Tuesday in LaFortune from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 3 to 4 p.m., and continue in the library from 7 to 8 p.m. On Friday night, there will be a poetry reading followed by a reception for Juggler contributors and friends in the Library Lounge at 8:30. ­
The Observer 

Design Editor ......... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Copy Editor ...... Kathy Scarbeck Design Assistant .............. Pete LaFleur Accent Layout.. .......... Katy Kronenberg Typesetters ....................... Michael Buc Business Editor ................. Steve Claeys .......................................... Daniel Cahill Typist ................... .. .. Jenn Conlon Neo.;;J Editor. . .......... Chris Julka ND Day Editors ...... Elizabeth Cornwell Copy Editor .................. Rachael Jarosh .......................... Maria Doti Sports Copy Editor... . ....... Pete Gegen Photographer ... ·:::::::::·:.::::·Mike Moran Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Brian Conway 
De OW... (USPS 599 2-<4000) is published Monday throuab Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. neOblener is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2$ per scmatcr) by writina neOlleerYer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodiaDa 46556. 
ne O....er is • member of ne Mlodaled Pre.. All reproduction riahts arc racrved. 

Local taxi fares amount to 'highway robbery' 
Fade in 
"Welcome back. We're talking to Jay Leno. So Jay, _is there something that is bothering you, somethmg you want to get off your chest? I guess what I'm getting at is what is your beef?" 
"We'll Dave, I've got two beefs this time. I was at Notre Dame last week and two things there really irked me. First of all, the cabs out there in South Bend do a great job ripping you off on your way to campus. And if that isn't enough, someone should be arrested for the prices that the flower shop charges." 
"Sounds like you've got a load to get off your chest, Jay." "You bet, Dave." 
Fade out 
So maybe it was just a fantasy, but these are hardly unfounded gripes. 
Taxi cab operators in South Bend have given ne~ meaning to the term highway robbery. While I have never been a victim of this heinous crime, stories abound of $25 return trips from the airport and roundabout excursions through South Bend before reaching a final destination. 
It's time for students to take a stand and challenge these fares. In order to do so, however, we all must be better informed about 

what fares we should expect, and when to com­These cabies affiliate themselves with a plain. large company in order to have the benefits of 
.Th~re are three major cab companies oper­name recognition, advertising, and a central atmg m Sou~h Bend: Allied, Roseland, and Yel­dispacher. If there are enough complaints low. The dnvers for each of these companies against a driver, he will be let go by the com­lease their cabs from the parent company and pany. Therefore it is in the driver's best interest are therefore required to abide by the fares set to appease the customer. Don't be afraid to ask by the headquarters. about your fare. Tell him what you think he 
All three companies charge an initial $2 pick­should have charged, and ask him to explain up charge, but that's the only charge they all his own calculations. From this moment on­
have in common. Both Allied and Roseland ward, if you get overcharged it's no one's fault charge $1.20 per mile; however, Yellow only but your own. charges $1 per mile. Yellow continues to appear My second beef is with Irish Gardens. I the better bargain when you compare the extra dreaded going to the Gardens before my SYR charges tacked on by the cabbies. Roseland Saturday because I hate feeling I'm being charges $1 extra for every extra person. Allied ripped off. At $3 for a rose, someone's making also charges this extra dollar but only to and a bundle at our expense. Nowadays I go off 
from the airport. Yellow allows up to five people campus for flowers where the most expensive with no extra charge. Roseland also reserves rose goes for about $2.50, but you are more the right to charge for "excessive" loads of likely to pay $1.50. luggage. Neither Allied nor Yellow charge ex­There is really no reason why Irish Gardens 
tra for luggage. should charge so much. The only people they're 
I'm not about to accuse any company in par­taking advantage of are students. ticular of overcharging beyond these base To add insult to injury, in the past year they fares, but from what I understand they all have have raised their prices from $2 a rose to $3. drivers who try to make an extra buck or two. Why? Most likely because they wanted extra 
There is no reason, if you take a Yellow cab money and they knew the students, as captive, from campus to the airport, that the total fare campus-bound consumers, would pay whatever should cost more than $8 ($2 pick-up fee ¢ 6 outrageous price was asked. The time has come miles at $1 mile). A trip to the mall should run to bring the prices back down to a reasonable 
only about $5. If you use a different company level. I'm not alone in resenting the exorbitant you can make the necessary additions to the overcharge. fare. So Jay, you're not alone. 
.................,.~-~-~~~·ii;~·~;;~~··················~ Observer classifieds will be accepted from Today.lslauraS.Sblrthday.Callherup 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer Offl"ces 314 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 1 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaFortune
11 on pool tables ton1ght. ' 

$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial benefits worth as much as S25,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
All these benefits are pro\'ided for one purpose: to educate and train qualified young men and women to serve as commissioned officers in the Navy. 
'lbe ~m~: pays for tuition. textbooks, instructional fet..-s, and gi\•es you an allowance ot SIOO a month for up to 20 months during vour last two vears of ~ollege. Cpon graduation and completion of requirements, you'll beCome an 1mportant pan of the Na\'y ad\·emure as a Nan· oflicer. 
Call your Nm~' representati,·c for more information on this challenging and rcwardinz_program. 
For more information call Lieutenant Commander Tim Wieand at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 
NAW~OFFICER. 
LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 
-

~----------------------;-----­



_M_o_nd_a_y_._o_~ T~h~e~O~b~se~N~er~--------------------------------------------~pa~ge~
__m_be_r_7_,_19_8_7______________________ 
A member of the Adopt-A-Nun organization at Saint Mary's poses as 
Santa as part of the Saint Nickolas Day Party held in the Lilly O'Grady 
Center at Saint Mary's Convent. About 40 students and 50 nuns attended 
the event. 

Researchers meet to curb spread of AIDS 
lr-!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~!!S heterosexuals who engage in 

Senate considers tax increase 
Nevertheless, there is oppo­because the president and the
Associated Press 
sition to the plan from those leadership are behind it." WASHINGTON -For the who are against any tax in­Most of the tax provisions third time in six years, the Sen­crease and from others who say were approved by the commit­
the spending cuts are much too tee before the Oct. 19 stock­
ate is about to decide whether 
taxes should be raised to timid. market crash. But it took the reduce the federal budget def­Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D­disruption in the financial 
icit. Texas, chairman of the markets to coax Reagan and Senate leaders hope to take Finance Committee, which congressional leaders into 
a final vote this week on a $23 wrote the tax bill, predicted it negotiations that produced the billion tax increase that is the will pass because it is "as pain­base of the deficit-reduction 
centerpiece of a plan to slash less as possible" -meaning the plan a month later. the deficit by $76 billion over impact will hardly be felt by 
the next 22 months. Spending typical taxpayers. The burden As part of that agreement, cuts that account for most of will fall almost entirely on cor­Reagan had to drop his oft­the saving are wrapped into a porations and upper-income in­stated opposition to any tax in­giant money bill on which a dividuals. crease -just as he did in 1982 Senate vote also could come Sen. William Roth, R-Del., and 1984. late in the week. said he probably will vote no This year's tax bill is smaller 
The framework for the anti­on the tax plan. He character­than either of the two earlier deficit measures was worked ized it as "economic leeching," increases. The bill passed in out by President Reagan and saying "raising taxes when we 1982 was estimated to cost busi­congressional leaders in a are trying to strengthen the nesses and individuals about much-publicized effort to show economy is like bloodletting for $50 million in the two years that that the partisan differences an anemic patient." followed immediately. The 1984 can be put aside in the national Even so, Roth said, "I expect legislation had a two-year 
the whole thing to _get through pricetag of $27 billion. ·
interest. 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Be­havioral scientists and medical researchers at an international AIDS conference sponsored by the KiQsey Institute agreed Saturday they must work to­gether to curb the spread of the deadly disease. 
"While the advances in im­
CHRISTMAS CONCERT munology, epidemiology and virology have come along quickly, there is a growing concern that bench science alone cannot outrace this
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11 
epidemic," said Dr. Michael Gottlieb, chairman of the
8:00PM 

American Foundation for AIDS research and the scientist
STEPAN CENTER 
credited with first identifyingFREE ADMISSION the disease, in 1980. "There's a growing appreciation that the 
NO TICKET NECESSARY involvement of behavioral scientists is necessary to curb this epidemic." 

Co-sponsored by the Notre Dame Glee Club & Student Board 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACUL TV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yoursel~, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN: October 9-11, 1987 November 20-22, 1987 January 22-24, 1988 
* March 25-27, 1988 


OFFICE OF CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 0MPU5 COST: $15.00 MINISTRY
(Badin Hall) 239-5242 
ULTRA GRAPHICS 
288-0500 
Printed T-Shirts 
Jackets, sweats, hats, etc. with 

ur club, sorority or dorm name. 
similar practices are also at risk and need counseling, re­searchers at the conference said. 
Until a cure for the disease is found, Gottlieb said, the best way to slow or halt the spread of AIDS is to tell people how it is transmitted. 
"It's hoped of course that these strategies will allow con­tinued expression of the most basic human feelings," he added. "There are moralistic forces in our society which would have us believe that human sexuality causes AIDS, and of course this is not true. 
"It's important to distinguish between measures and strate­gies which encourage appro­priate AIDS awareness from those which seek to limit sexual expression on religious or moral grounds." 
Cooperation among scientific disciplines has helped resolve other problems, said Bruce Voeller, president of the Mariposa Education and Re­search Foundation, a sex re­search group based in Topanga, Calif. 
The Kinsey symposium, "AIDS and Sex: An Integrated Biomedical and Biobehavioral Approach," featured about 70 researchers and specialists in the disease and is slated to con­tinue until Tuesday at the In­diana University Memorial Union. • 
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome is a viral disease (with no known cure) that dis­ables the body's immune sys­tem, making victims suscepti­ble to a variety of illnesses. It is found most commonly in male homosexuals, who trans­mit the virus through anal sex, and in intravenous drug users who share infected needles. 
About 40,000 people have been diagnosed with AIDS, ac­cording to the Federal Centers for Disease Control, and more than half that number have died. 
A theme of the conference is that the disease is spread primarily through sexual be­haviors, and that doctors need the help of social scientists to learn from victims about their sexual practices to understand how AIDS is transmitted. Many 


Monday, December 7, 1987
The Observer
page 4 

~ 
r 
I 
r 
r 

Soviet judge urges 
He said courts are stillAssociated Press rehabilitating some victims of 
MOSCOW The Soviet that repressive time -240 in the Union's highest-ranking judge last three years, he said. urged better legal defense for Stalin was general secretary citizens, less government inter­of the Soviet Communist Party ference in the judicial process, from 1922 until his death in and shorter pre-trial detention 1953. periods in an interview pub­In Terebilov's interview with lished Saturday. the Communist Party daily 
Vladimir Terebilov, chair­Pravda, he did not mention man of the Soviet Supreme Stalin by name. He noted, Court, also said that numerous however, that what he called 
violations of the law occurred the repression and illeg;il prac­under the rule of Josef Stalin. tices of the 1930s and 1940s 

China opens Bible 
Associated Press 
NANKING, China -A print­ing plant devoted to printing Bibles opened Saturday for the first time in China since the Communist victory in the civil war in 1949. 
More than 200 people, includ­ing representatives from Christian organizations in China, government officials and Christians from nine countries, gathered in a ware­house of the Amity Press near 


Summit 
continued from page 1 
port in a letter read to the people gathered there. 
"I have high hopes for new, forward steps by the Soviets," he said. "I shall press for them in my talks with General Sec­retary Gorbachev in the com­ing days -for the release of all refuseniks, for full freedom of emigration, and for complete freedom of religion and cul­tural expression." 
In Moscow, more than 200 plainclothes security agents roughed up Jewish activists and journalists during rival demonstrations for and against Kremlin policy. 
"In the Soviet Union, they don't treat human beings in the way we think they ought to," Secretary of State George Shultz said. 
However, Georgi Arbatov, a Kremlin specialist on Ameri­can affairs, said "there are a lot of people" trying to "throw sand into the wheels" of the summit and prevent it from happening. 
Human rights is one of four items on the summit agenda, along with regional conflicts such as Afghanistan, Nicaragua and the Persian Gulf, bilateral relations and arms control. 
Soviet officials said Star Wars was not even an issue. Gerasimov said a missile­defense system was not techni­cally feasible now. 


Survey 
continued from page 1 
alcohol?'' question because the answers (never, once a month, once a week, three times a week, or every day) were too specific, Fearnow said. "A range woula nave been much more effective," he added. 
Some respondents also were confused about the question "Do you vote in campus elec­tions?" because freshmen are not yet eligible to vote in school elections. Instead of just yes and no answers, "Not applica­ble" or "Intend to vote" should have been offered as choices, McGowan said. 

Nanking for the dedication cer­emony. 
''The Bible is an important book for all of humanity," said Bishop K. Ting, president of the China _Christian Council. "Chairman Mao (the late Com­munist Party leader Mao Tse­tung) said that unless one studied Christianity, there would be no way of understand­ing Western history, Western literature and Western philos­ophy." 
He presented Oswald Hof­


reform of USSR legal system 
could not be omitted from any discussion of the Soviet judicial system. 
The present, 30-year-old sys­tem "needs perestroika," or reconstruction, Terebilov said. 
The 13,000 or so courts in the 
nation and investigative panels 
must be "more independent 
and responsible," he said. 
Courts are currently deemed 
independent, but Terebilov 
said party, government and 
other officials had interfered in 
the judicial process in the past. 

factory 
fmann, president of the United Bible Societies, with one of Amity's first Bibles. 
"The good news is Jesus Ch:ist .. .is now to be read by Chmese people in their own lan­guage from Bibles printed on their own press," Hoffmann said. 
During the chaotic decade of the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution possession of a Bible was ~ crime, and many Bibles were destroyed. 
He proposed "additional guarantees that would exclude outside interference," includ­ing a specific law to punish those who attempt it. 
"It is necessary to ensure sig­nificantly more effective guarantee of the rights of the accused to a defense," Terebilov said. 
He said lawyers should be better trained and better paid and defendants should have the right to a lawyer as soon as they are charged. 
Under present Soviet law, a defendant is not entitled to a lawyer until investigation of the case is complete. That can take months. 
Terebilov also called for new laws limiting pretrial detention to six months, and only for un­specified serious offenses. 
In recent newspaper and magazine articles, several ranking justice officials have discussed planned reform of the Soviet Union's criminal code and justice system. 

We're looking for a Freshman 
Orientation Chairperson for next year. 
Applications are available at the 
Student Government Secretary's Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune. They 
must be returned to the Student GovPrnment Office between 8:.30-4:.30 
by Friday, December 11. 
hank you, _CS:.'i:i?d?r!l~ 
~t!~~LL~ 
,~~ 




Callyour mummy. 

You remember. She was always there when you were frightened. And if you got hurt, she was standing by with ban­dages. Wouldn't it feel good to talk to your mother again right now? 
Calling over AT&T Long Distance Service probably costs less than you think, too. And if you have any questions about AT&T rates or service, a customer service repre­sentative is always standing by to talk to you. Just call 
1 800 222-0300. 
Sure, your schoolwork and your friends keep you busy. But call home and find out what she's wrapped up in. 

AT&T 

The right choice. 
' 
~ 
r 
~ 
Monday, December 7, 1987 

Security Beat 

Friday, December 4 

3 a.m. Two Notre Dame students were seen stealing license plates from a car in the D6 parking lot. Se­curity officers confronted the suspects and the plates were returned. 
1:58 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported the theft of his bookbag from the South Dining Hall between 
I :20 and 1:50 p.m. His loss is esti­mated at $35. 
3:40p.m. A Niles resident reported that she lost her pocketbook between 

10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. in the area between the Hesburgh Library and Sacred Heart Church. Her loss is es­timated at $40. 
3:45p.m. A Sorin Hall resident re­ported that his car was broken into and his stereo speakers stolen while it was parker! in the Dl lot between 6 p.m. November 30 and 9:40 p.m. December 3. Damage is estimated at $350. 

ATTENTION WOMEN OF ND!SMC 
John Dice has resorted to desperate measures to get a date. Please call 283-2302 and help res­tore his confidence . And while you're at it wish him a happy 20th birthday. 

WEDNESDAY. DECEMBER 9 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
nc:K!TI AVM.AAU. AT TM! CIVIC Amfl'OitiUflt lOX OPftCL POOHl'WIJ"tM (f'SLU AI"'D f"tCNNlli 
VU.....IWL). IW'!III<XIIU>e (I!1JtiWff). NfiJ JA'I (lA 
""""~ 
QWIKlf: .,-PHOft! I~ I f..HC-1110 

Saturday, December 5 
10:18 p.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation by Security for traveling 21 m.p.h. over the speed limit on Juniper Road. 
10:23 p.m. A University Food Ser­vice employee reported that two stu­dents were seen stealing ice from the deli of the Huddle. The students were positively identified. 
1:48 p.m. A Breen-Phillips Hall resident reported that she lost a ring in the area between the Hesburgh Library and Breen-Phillips Hall. Her loss is estimated at $80. 
2:25p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported that his license plate was stolen from his car between 1 a.m. December 3 and 8 a.m. December 5 while it was parked in the D2lot. 
2:58p.m. A Pasquerilla West res­ident reported that her license plate was stolen from her car between December 2 and 12:45 p.m. Decem­ber 5 while it was parked in the D2 
The Observer 
. · · 
lot. Her loss is estimated at $15. 
4:11 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported that his license plate was stolen from his car between 11 p.m. December 3 and 3:27p.m. December 5 while it was parked in the D2 lot. His loss is estimated at $49. 
8:10p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported vandalism to his car be­tween 5 p.m. December 3 and 8 a.m. December 5 while it was parked in the D2 lot. 
11:15 p.m. A University employee reported vandalism to her car be­tween 8 a.m. and 11:10 p.m. while it was parked by Gate 10 of the JACC. Damage is estimated in excess of $100. 
Sunday, December 6 
1:10 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall res­ident reported the theft of his book­bag from the South Dining Hall be­tween 6 p.m. November 23 and November 24. His loss is estimated at $200. 
Drugs 
continued from page 1 
nouncing its agenda at the 
beginning of the next term as 
to specific programs that will 
be offered. 

"This is not a counseling of­
fice, and it's not intended to be 
a counseling office," he said, 
"but it is a resource." 
"(The office) is for informa­
tion, education, and efforts to 
lessen the damage done by al­
cohol and drug us~ in the lives 
of the students at the Univer­
," he elaborated. 
twelve years of experience in the drug and alcohol field, had previously been a family ther­apist with a mental health cen­ter in Benton Harbor, Mic­higan. 
"I think ti1at the grant is in­tended to help promote the ac­quiring of knowledge and atti­tudes that would help the students here to contribute to the lessening of the grip that substance abuse problems have over individuals, families, and even systems such as businesses, church communities and univer­sities." he said. 
who has had The 

~[fiJ@flfllf~ 
are better with Your Group and 

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287 77 
Happy 
21st 

Tim ''Conehead' Weber. 



(jeateinm~ 
adean lieart 0 ort:G 

Service 10:00pm Sacred Heart Church 
Opportunitv for mdividual confessi<Hl tollowin~ the ~-·rvice. Rev. Thomas G.wgh.ln. C.S.C .. J-lomilist Music rovided bv the Notre D.m1e Folk Choir 
propriated by the Fund for the Improvement of Post­Secondary Education -a divi­sion of the Department of Edu­cation, according to Dannison. The grant supports a full-time director and secretary and helps fund individual programs associated with the office, lo­cated at room 210 in LaFortune Student Center, Dannison added. 
One of the new office's con­crete plans is to soon use the results of the alcohol and drug survey which was mailed to 1500 random students recently, .Dannison said. 
Questions on the survey dealt with amounts of drugs and al­cohol consumed, types of drugs used, and its relationship to school performance. Students were asked to estimate their drug and alcohol usage over the current semester as well as the two previous semesters. 
''There has been some fear that the survey had been an in­vestigative tool," said Dan­nison. "We are simply inter­ested in getting a finger on the pulse of the student community in terms of what they do and don't do." 
"It is the furthest thing from our intention to single out any student individually,'' Dan­nison said, adding "Equally important is that the student is protected by reseach ethics, federal law, and the campus Human Subjects policy from being exposed." 
Because the surveys are still in the process of being turned in, no results are yet available. There will also be second and third mailings for the survey. "We need to have as high percentage of response as oos­sible," said Dannison. 
The survey will help guide 
the efforts of the office, which 
will be open Monday through 
Friday from 8:30a.m.-5 p.m., 
according to Dannison. 
Think of your best friend. 

Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Doo't drive drunk. 

Reader's Digest 
Monday, December 7, 1987
page6 The Observer 
NO cheers Brown 
The Notre Dame campus reacts to the announcement that Tim Brown had won the 53rd Heisman Trophy Saturday. At left, Brown receives congratulations from his fellow residents in Cavanaugh Hall. At right, a student reads of the electrifying news in the Chicago Tribune. 
Only religious music appropriate for worship place, says Vatican 
Associated Press to program in a church the ex­for the Congregation for the ecution of music that is without Divine Cult, told a news conf~r­
VATICAN CITY -The 

religious inspiration.'' ence Saturday.
Vatican announced Saturday 

He said it was a "clarifica­
that only religious music Playing or singing music 
tion" of existing canonical law 
should be allowed in Roman without religious content 
that forbids "all that does not
Catholic places of worship, "would not respect the sacred 
consent to the holiness" of a sa­
reflecting concern about the in­character of the church," it cred site. 
creasing use of churches as said. concert halls. Some Catholic bishops have The document requires that 
"The most beautiful sym­criticized the performances of church officials seek advance phonic music .. .is not in and non-religious music in Catholic clearance from church aut­of itself religious," declared churches. horities for any concert, and the Vatican's Congregation for "This is not a restrictive stipulates that no fees can be 
the Divine Cult in a nine-page document," Monsignor Pere charged for performances of document. "It is not legitimate Garriga Tena, undersecretary sacred music. 
You Want Easy To Operate? 
eaZyTMpc Single Floppy Drive: Special Holiday Price: $499 Dual Floppy Drive: 
Special Holiday Price: $599 
Single Floppy with Hard Disk: Special Holiday Price: $899 The eaZy TM pc from Zenith Data Systems gives you a full-featured computer that's so simple to operate, you can be up and running within minutes after: opening the box. And it even comes with a 14" monochrome moni­
Contact: tor attached. Along with an easy-to-use keyboard, and 
Brad Koch 277-7720
compact, high-capacity JV2" disk drive. Added to all 
Jim Hogle (312) 745-2141
this, you get some very important extras ... Now, the eaZy pc can be yours at a great student 
Or products can be seen at
price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems 
Computing Center Demo Lab 
Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demonstration, 


and match you up with the right software and periph­erals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! 

j THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON •
So stop by today. And see the eaZy pc for yourself. See you soon! 
© 1987, Zenith Data Systems 
~-"-"'"""'(o,,........_ ~-.....: ...... ---... ; ..... ,._ ..... ...._............. ~... --. ·-·%' ....... ,. 

Monday, December 7, 1987 page 7 







Seniors should consider volunteer work 
Editor's  Note:  The  following  is  the  
second in  a  monthly series from  the  
Center for Social Concerns.  

As the end of the first semester ap­proaches, seniors are really beginning to think about what they want to do with the next few years of their lives. Many Notre Dame students at least consider volunteer work. Four years at Notre Dame help students realize how much they have been given, and how much less so many other people have. Volun­teer programs are one way that we can share our gifts and talents with others who have not had all the advantages we have had. Volunteer programs come in a wide range of "shapes and sizes." Not every program is for every person, but if you look hard enough you are bound to find one that fits your person­ality, talents, goals, and expectations­-a program that challenges you while expanding your horizons and perspec­tives in directions you wish to pursue. 
Lisa Meyer Beth Thompson Byran Maddox 
guest column 
We would like to tell you about the volunteer program which we are cur­rently a part of--the Academia Cristo Rey Program. Academia Cristo Rey is a Catholic, co-educational school in Ponce, Puerto Rico. The fundamental purpose of this program is to help Spanish-speaking students in grades 1-6 learn the basics of English, Puerto Rico's second language. 
This is the first year for the Academia Cristo Rey program, so it is not yet very structured. While this can be ex­tremely frustrating at times, it also gives us an enormous amount of input. Within certain boundaries we are free to make the program into what we want--we can shape the program to fit the needs and opportunities we per­ceive. The school is very open to sug­gestions, and almost anything is worth a try; if it does not work, you just try something else! People with a lot of great ideas, and a lot of patience, can really put their creativity to work. We figure a lot out as we go along, but when something finally clicks we feel as if we have conquered the whole world. 
Each of us has our own set of reasons for being here, but common threads seem to run through our decisions. Something about the program just 
Doonesbury 
stuck in our minds and would not let go. Part of it was the challenge of start­ing and establishing a new program. Another major factor was the location. Puerto Rico allows one to go outside the continental United States and expe­rience a Latin American environment, while its commonwealth status allows one to retain at least some of the se­curity of the States. Despite the inevi­table adjustment, the idea of being im­mersed in a new culture was definitely appealing. The cultural aspect gives one the chance to learn and experience new customs, to see new places and do things one might never have a chance to do otherwise; and it is an opportunity to force oneself to learn and speak the Spanish language. 
But the cultural benefits run much deeper than this. Intercultural interac­tion is a valuable and important step in breaking down the barriers that often exist between people of different back­grounds. By working together, people learn to value their differences instead of fearing them. It is hard to understand how people feel until you have been through similar experiences yourself. Programs outside the U.S. give one a chance to experience being on the other side--the outside--and seeing the world from a different perspective. 
The Hispanic population in the U.S. continues to grow at an enormous rate, and Latin America continues to draw increasing world concern in areas of social justice, politics, economics, etc. Working in Puerto Rico gives one a chance to experience something of this different way of life, it gives one a chance to do at least a little bit to change things, even if it only helps a small group of people and may only visibly help one or two. Puerto Rico may not be the roughest or neediest place "south of the border;" it is a lot more "Americanized" than we had ex­pected, but it is still behind the times. Beyond the affluent tourist areas, Puerto Rico has a long way to go, and education is the key to progress. 
As with most programs, the Academia Cristo Rey Program is not for everyone. You have to love children, and it helps if you are extremely pa­tient. (Don't worry--if you are not when you get here you will be by the time you leave!) The kids are the great. Oh, they have their days, but every time you start to wonder why you came here and why you stay, one of them will kiss you or smile at you, or a parent will come up and tell you how much their son or daughter loves you and cannot 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219} 239-5303 
The ObMrver is the independent newspaper publlahad by the student• of the UniY&rlity of Notre Dlma du Lac and Saint Mary's Coltega. It don not neceuarily rllflact the policies of the lldminlatralion of either institution. The News Ia raportad 81 accurately and objactivefy as posalble. Unsigned aditoriala represent the opinion of the majority ot the Editorial Board. Commentaries. leners and the lnalda Column preunt the views of their authors. Column apace is available to all members of the school community, and the tree expression of varying opinions on campus, through ienera. is encouraged. 
stop talking about you--and you know why you are here. You cannot help feeling in love with them! We were in­itially taken aback to find that the school is in a more (relatively) middle class neighborhood rather than in the lower class setting we expected. If your heart is set on working in extreme poverty you probably will not be satisfied here--but these children need us too. And, again, the program is still in its developing stages. Right now, we are trying to incorporate outside com­munity service into the program, thereby expanding the program's ser­vice component and adding at least the option of working with the very poor. Hopefully, we can establish this at year's end. 
The program has great potential and numerous possibilities. It is still some­what unstructnred. which some poeple may not like, but people with enthusi­asm and ideas can do so much with it. Volunteer work may not always be the most prestigious choice in the eyes of the world, but think about it. It is a way to incorporate your faith and your values into your life. Whether you do it for God or for the world or for yourself, it is only one year of your life, and chances are you will get so much more out of it than you could ever give. And if you don't do it now, when your life is relatively free of commitments, you probably never will. Just think about it. (We would be happy to answer any and all questions. You may contact us through Mary Ann Roemer at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns.) 
Lisa Meyer, Beth Thompson and Byran Maddox are 1987 graduates of Notre Dame, now working in Puerto Rico. 

P.O. Box Q 
Problems abound in An anonymous author once said, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it." Lookingplayoff system back at the final AP and UPI polls over the last ten years, it seems that only Dear Editor: once has a distinction come between 
I am writing in response to Dennis what "number one" and "the best" Corrigan's Nov. 20 column regarding a meant. college football playoff system. In his The playoff system would add four column, he indicates that the top six­weeks to the college season, meaning teen teams, as selected by the comput­the final two teams will have played 15 er, should be chosen for the post-season games, clearly too long. Must we go to playoffs. such extremes to crown a national 
Could a playoff system work? I think champion? Are we speaking here of col­not! · leges or sports factories? Are the 
First of all, Corrigan's perspective is players called "student athletes" or biased; he is viewing the issue with "athletic students"? Adding a playoff strong regard to Notre Dame. Also, it system to college football would be like is hard to compare records, opponents adding fuel to a fire which might only and team strength when there are con­result in a blazing inferno of athletic ference teams and independents. This immorality! is because conference teams play Rick Wirth games within their conferences, for the Keenan Hall most part, once the season begins. Dec. 1 1987 Thus, it is difficult to compare relative 
Over 300 letters to the
strengths of different teams. Besides, how is one to determine the difference 
editor and 200 columns 
between the sixteenth and seventeenth 
appeared last year in
ranked teams? With a playoff system, coaches would 
Viewpoint. Join the 
employ tactics to win at all costs. This 
growing number of people
is because there would be a legitimate number one, encouraging more cheat­
who feel their opinions do 
ing, as if there are not enough violations 
make a difference. Write to
already. The NCAA would not have enough manpower to investigate 
P.O. Box Q, Viewpoint De­
various programs. If this should occur, 
partment, Notre Dame, IN.
who then is the real winner in college football? 
46556 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"Peace on earth, good will towards all." 
Luke 2:14 
Operations Board 

Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Bua/neu M811ager ............................. Brian Murray Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski AdvetfJslng DN/gn Manager ........... David Culllglln News Editor ....................................Chris Beclnaraki AdvetfJI/ng Manager .................. Melinda Chapleau News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production M8118f1er...................... M.llaaa Warnke Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Maneger ......................... Mark Mcl.aughNn Spotta Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan .sy.terns M811ager ............................ Shawn SaldOO Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controllar ........................................ TrKy Schindele Saint Mwy's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... laira Stanton Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1118 







Accent
page 8 Monday, December 7, 1987 

BRIAN REILLY 
accent writer 

Y
ou are feeling sleepy. You are in a deep, deep sleep. On the count of three everyone on stage will become a duck-­quacking is the only way you can communicte with anyone. On the count of three you will ask the person next to you when the flock is heading south for winter. Wait, what's this? I just found out that one of the ducks is having a birthday today. Flap your wings and quack Happy Birthday to him." 
Tonight you too will have an opportunity to become a duck. Hypnotist Gary Conrad will be performing at 9 p.m. in Washington Hail, sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
The duck routine is just one of a number of "experiments" which Conrad performs on stu­dents. They may dance like an Arabian belly dancer, live out past lives or laugh hysterically at audience members, whom they think are naked. 
One of Conrad's tricks is to bring one big, muscular guy and one pretty, petite girl on stage, hypnotize them, and have them switch roles. The guy believes that he is a balle­rina and tip-toes across the stage, while the girl, convinced she is a guy, chews tobacco and pumps iron. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Conrad's hypnotism is more than just entertaining, though. It also can help students with their studies by showing them the amazing powers of memory. For example, Conrad "takes" a hypnotized subject back to his kindergarten class­room. "What's your teacher's name? Who sits to your left? Your right? Two rows behind you?" The answers are as­tounding. Through hypnosis, long "forgotten" memories are retrieved from the subject's subconscious mind. Students in the audience often wonder if these hypnosis methods which allow them to remember kin­dergarten experiences can help them recall information from text books read only a few months ago. 
This week students will have the opportunity to discover the answer for themselves by at­tending a series of seminars in hypnosis given by Conrad. "Once you attend one of these seminars, your life will never be the same," says-Conrad. In these workshops, people learn how to hypnotize themselves. Conrad Introduces them to the hidden power of the mind and shows how they can harness it to achieve dramatic results in their lives. Increased self­confldence, information recall, self-induced anesthesia, "photographic" memory poten­tial, reduced test1nterview anx­iety, and personal goal 
achievement are among the benefits which can be obtained. 
"Whatever the mind can con­ceive, the body can achieve through self hypnosis. Any area where increased concentration 
levels are needed--studying, test taking, athletic perfor­mance, interviewing--these techniques will get results." Several college and profes­sional sports teams use self­hypnosis techniques to maxi­mize their athlete's performances. Self hypnosis is also a documented aid to losing weight, quitting smoking and scoring higher on exams. Conrad, who works In the Army Reserve's Public Affairs Divi­sion, has used these hypnosis techniques with the Army's Special Forces, the New York City Police Department and the F.B.I. 
Conrads performance is sponsored by the Student Union Board. Admission is $1.00 
Seminars will be held in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of Lafortune from 
4:00 to 6:.30 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday and at 8:00 
p.m. on Wednesday. Topics to be included are Increased self confidence, Interview tech­niques, weight loss, and test preparation. 
Call SUB (2.39-7757) for more information. Bill Watterson 


All My Children: Erica told accused him of being a Silver her ghostly vision of crook. Coming: Unpleasant Goldie was a dream.ln news for Tiffany. South America, Matt assisted Guiding Light: In England, Mitch in'a knife fight with Johnny broke up with Roxie, Esteban, who was arrested. hoping she would turn to Matt unwittingly agreed to Rick. Rick agreed to woo 
i help Cliff escape. Hilary Roxie on Johnny's request. obtained Mitch's cable and Alex agreed to l:$ack Phillip flew to find him. Coming: In his Spaulding takeover Nina regrets her actions. scheme. Sonnl told Josh she Another World: Cass rescued wanted a baby. Rusty won. Nicole .from Rex, but was Rose's trust. but Nick beat 
fi1ffarrPcQttorl for .Rex's•¢time. RoSe and ordered her to Adam set up Cass bfan keep away from Rusty. Com· 
undercoVer operation to ing: The plot against Alan snare Rex. Aunt Liz blurted escalates. out Sam,~nd Mitch's reia· Knot's Landing: The cui-de· Uonship/'ilnd a,~,a~$,Jt)' Mac •<:.was stricken by news of 
warned Sam.,,~o stay away 'iaura's death from a brain 
from his datfghter. Scott tumor. Greg, left to raise promised to help Dawn learn ''·"· Megan alone, was forced to more abo~t her father:. Com· fl'rjeal with his grief and that fng: The iiiltttt hi~ thf: Corys. ·'";;;q1of Laura's friends. The arri­-~-!n~ 'World Tuma: 'Qarbara JJM,~. val of Laura's tlrst husband, was'~~lirrested for Jame$' fUchard Avery, resulted In murder. Lucinda snuck Into new conflicts. Coming: Greg Tonto's house and took a must accept his fate. box of blazer buttons;< Emily LoVing: Steve's death left announced she had ac· .;... ,·::' eyeryone grief-stricken, {if.. cepted Holden's marriage ~~.&:::: particularly Harry. As a result proposal. but kept quiet of the tragedy, Cecelia left about her pregnancy. Steve town. Clay and Ava cut their flied for divorce from Betsy. honeymoon short to attend Jessica had harsh words for the funeral. Trisha rejected 
distinguished Tho~~n';/11; if§~ Ava's offer of help. Converse. Coming: The ·· · · · , Coming: More con-
Grand Jury 'reacheS a ver· Sequences of the shooting. diet. One Life To Live: Rafe dis-Dallas: Ray and Jenna.,~ere covered that Delila never 
married; with Bobby e;s .··. t arrived In New York. After man. Christopher ·was· · Patrick prevented Cord from troubled by news of his dad taking the photo, a suspicl­being Lucas' father, while ous Cord found a bomb In Jenna pined for her past his camera, planted by with Bobby. Sue Ellen's Patrick. Patrick was arrested admiration for Nicholas after Cord saved Kate from grew. Lisa took a risky step. being kidnapped. No one Coming: Lisa's actions believed that Melinda saw jeopardize Bobby. Alex Crown being strangled. Days of Our Lives: Kayla Brent, high on cocaine, mistrusted PatCh and ran crashed Mari-Lynn's sports away, only to collapse and car. Coming: More victims be carried off by a mysteri-for the hospital. ous man. Diana signed Ryan's Hope: Investigating Victor's prenuptial agree-Richard's murder, Jill ques­ment, while Serena hid her tloned Chaz, but suddenly part in selling out her went into labor. Pat and daughter. Jo worried about Concetta attended Jill until Neil taking pills. Adrienne they were called away by an was trapped In the emer-accident. Frank helped Jill gency Center. Coming: Jus-deliver a baby girl, which tin rushes to save his wife. she named Mary. Nancy, Dynasty: Alexis blamed with hot plans for Ben, Blake's blind loyalty for their awaited him in a bubble children's problems while bath. Coming: New light on continuing to scorn his the case. political ambition. Jeff tried Santa Barbara: High again, convincing himself he still Tori neglected Chip, who loved fallon. Alexis offered nearly crawled onto broken Krystle and Blake a typically glass. Cruz got the better of barbed invitation. Coming: Keith in a fistfight and went Fallon hurls accusations. back into hiding. Keith falcon Crest: Maggie won bugged the guesthouse, second place in ·a wine con· only to hear Scott pledge his test. Richard's continuing love to Gina. Suspicion grew protection of Liz bothered against Dr. Nlkolas, as he Maggie, who decided to visit tried to cover Elena's tracks. Vicki in Monte Carlo. An-gela's latest attempt to un­seat Melissa boomeranged The Young & The Restless: on her. Coming: Reper-Janet's bullet intended for cussions for Dan. Faren killed Evan. Faren General Hospital: Jake assured Betsy she would lashed out at Bobble when take care of her. At Lauren's news of her Florida arrest urging, Brad moved out. reached Port Charles. Her· 
Jack checked up on Traci in bert dies after requesting 
California. Victor fumed at cremation, and suspicion fell 
Nikki's holiday plans. Com· on Alan and Edward. Mean­
ing: Jack plants a seed of wlle!;Autumn confronted the 
doubt. very much alive Herbert and 
1987, McNaught Synd. 

Business
Monday, December 7, 1987 page 9 
Hickey offers suggestions 
BMW sales falling 
on improving dorm foodsales 
as stocks take dive
By RENEE GAU On the other hand, because handle, while at the same time Business Writer the managers of foodsales ex­meeting the needs of the stu­ercise such control they acci­dents by offering an occasional 
IT The stock market crash and weak dollar have hurt the Editor's Note: This is the dentally may exploit their cus­special. Pangborn foodsales 
sale of BMW cars in the United States. Not surprisingly, second in a series ofarticles on tomers through price manager Brian McKinley 
BMW stock (traded in Germany) has fallen 40 percent since Notre Dame's dorm foodsales. variations, inexperienced man­agrees and said, "People love 
August. Drexel Burnham Lambert analyst Khaled Abdel As a conscientious shopper, agement, or poor service. .to hear they're getting a deal." 
Majeed suggests that the stock is a good buy at $266 a share someone who wants the best for Director of University Food Another aspect of marketing 
since the dollar is weak. Majeed points out that BMW can the least money, you probably Services William Hickey was is employee service. Dillon 
make up for the losses incurred from a weak dollar because have compared the price of asked to offer some advice on foodsales co-manager Bill 
it is not uncommon for luxury cars to have very high sticker your favorite munchies at a how foodsales can be better O'Neill said, "you don't want 
prices. The stock could benefit after the 1988 models are number of places: Kroger's, operated. people to get a negative at­
introduced and should appreciate when the dollar stabilizes. the Huddle, The Commons, and He first said that over exten­titude ... you want to entice of course, your dorm. Actually, sion is part of the management them to buy more ... that's why 
Wholihan and
if you have not you aren't the problem of foodsales. "You good employee service is the 
only one. Students ususally do . can't try to be everything, to mostimportant(aspectoffood­
Murray
not have the time, inclination, everybody ... you've got to take sales)." 
nor the opportunity to do so. a few things and do them well," Employees have a responsi­
Business Briefs
Therefore, most people take for he stated. Hickey said that bility to their jobs, but some­
granted that the food offered at there is a great need for conti­times the managers have diffi­
their foodsales is at least fairly nuity of management across culties with them. Another 
IT For the first time in eight years, not one state has an priced. the campus so that students Dillon manager explained, 
unemployment rate over 10 percent. September saw Unknown to most, however, can be better served and "you have to have a good atti­
Louisiana's unemployment rate fall to 9.9 percent. The North­the price list in each foodsales protected--given the best food tude and want to work 
east and Mid-Atlantic regions continue to lead the nation in differs from dorm to dorm as for the best price and service. (foodsales). As a manager, I 
low-unemployment. There are six states in these two regions much as prices differ between Hickey suggested two stand­can't understand why (the 
that have unemployment rates under three percent. Septem­the Huddle and Kroger's. ards which managers should employees) can't be friendly 
ber was also the twenty-sixth consecutive month that New Moreover, management tech­uphold at all times. First and and keep good records. They 
Hampshire led the nation in low-unemployment. niques, incentives and services foremost is sanitation and should try to develop a better 
IT Tired of that tax class? Why bother with the class when also vary greatly from dorm to second is managerial accoun­attitude." 
H&R Block can do the job at a substantial discount on tuition. dorm. tability. He said, "There has to As a last bit of advice, Hickey 
H&R Block, the Sears and Roebuck of the tax return prep­The foodsales operations on be accountability for what goes suggested better utilization of 
aration industry, now has 40,000 employees and over $700 campus are verifiable busi­on in (foodsales) in terms of social space around the food­
million in revenues according to Inc. Magazine. The company nesses, each generating reve­money, prices" and smooth sales area. Hickey explained 
has no major competitors and a customer return rate of 80%. nue to cover costs and supply operations. Hickey added, that the huge success of the 
With the 1986 Tax Simplification Act, many more consumers capital for dorm expenses. Yet "The (managers) have an ob­Huddle is due largely to the 
should turn to H&R Block to help them sort through the new, each earns that revenue under ligation to the students in the availability of a socially con­
complex, bewildering rules. completely different methods dorm to provide service and ducive atmoshpere. Foodsales 
IT The latest salvo in the beer war between Anheuser-Busch of management. From Alumni provide it on time." managers could make their 
and Miller is a pamphlet released by Anheuser-Busch to be 
to Walsh, all are independently John Kleisner and Ted Meis­alotted space more comfort­distributed in bars. 
organized and no common rule sner, co-managers of Morris­able by playing music or put­The pamphlet is aimed at discrediting Miller's Genuine Draft 
exists to create a foodsales sey foodsales, understand this ting up posters. beer. According to A-Ball brewers cold filter their beer while 
chain across campus. all too well. Commenting on Given Hickey's advice on im-Miller suggets in their ads that only Genuine Draft is cold 
There are pro and cons to one of the biggest drawbacks proving foodsales filtered. The pamphlet continues to say that the reason why 
such an independent business to managing foodsales Kleis­marketability, diligent Miller calls their beer genuine draft is because the beer is 
system on campus. ner said, "(it) can't be blown managers should be able to im­not pasteurized. Instead, Miller uses a process of sterile fil­
One advantage is that the off. I am held responsible for prove their businesses. tering which removes some of the flavor and body from the ambitious and upcoming stu­the job to get done. I can't just beer. Anheuser-Busch also adds that sterile filtering is dent entrepreneur can use in­call in sick." Meissner stated Students should demand the cheaper than pasteurization and does not consistently novative ideas in marketing emphatically, "I have to res­most of the hall foodsales produce quality beer. and management. For in­chedule my life around it." operations and expect the best IT The Last Word. And oh, how things change. In the 1971 stance, Howard foodsales Each manager also faces the possible in quality, price and edition of "Dome", there are 28 members pictured in the managers Stacy Navadel and problem of marketing. Hickey service. Through following "Young Americans for Freedom" group shot, 12 members Laura Gonzalez conducted a suggested that managers these pointers foodsales pictured in the "Coalition for Political Action," and for the survey in their dorm asking for should restrict their menu to managers will be able to meet "Young Republicans," there are only three. suggestions for their menu. one which their technology can this demand. 
DOW ignores new job figures 
CQlor Ratio of a Bag 
Associated Press crash. Thursday from leading In addition to a broad market retailers. Consumer spending 
of M & M's 
Washington-Unemployment decline, the Dow Jones average is a major component of U.S. fell to its lowest level in more of 30 industrial stocks fell 9.79 economic growth, and a slow­than eight years last month, points to close at 1,766.74. That down during the crucial but while some economists left the Dow at its lowest point Christmas sales season could cheered the news as a show of since it plunged more than 500 foretell an economic slump. greater-than-expected U.S. points to 1,738.41 on BlackMon-The new unemployment fig-economic strength it failed to day, Oct. 19. ures put U.S. joblessness at its clear away the stock market's The weak dollar failed to lowest since a 5.7 percent rate pessimism. rally strongly Friday despite a in July 1979. 
The Labor Department re-coordinated round of interest-Most of the improvement ported Friday that unemploy-rate cuts on Thursday by was in manufacturing, where ment dropped to 5.9 percent in Europe m central banks. employment has grown by November from 6 percent the A weaker dollar is seen as 381,000 since October 1986. previous month, aided by a raising the danger of higher in-The gains were tempered manufacturing boom. terest rates and higher infla-slightly by falling employment 
But on Wall Street, lingering tion, both of which hamper among general merchandise worries about the weak dollar stock prices. retailers. Employment there and the federal budget deficit In addition, Wall Street slipped by 35,000 in November, 
helped push stocks lower, analysts said the market still indicating lower-than-expected 
driving the market close to the was reacting negatively to dis-hiring related to the holiday ~d-ep_t_h_s_it_r_e_a_c_he_d__in__it_s_o_c_t._I_9___ap_p_o_in_t_in_g____s_al_e_s___r_e_p_or-,ts :se~a~s:on;·~~~~~~~~~~S~o~u~rc~e~:~M~a~r~s~ln~c=·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


M 
A T 
H 
1 0 1 



Join The Observer 

Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? 
Answer: Buff Ob~erver ad space. .... . . . Ca 1239 6900. . . . ·. 
,---------------------------------------·~­
page 10 Monday, December 7, 1987
The Observer

,­
Sports Briefs ACHA powers collide at JACC 
Irish split series with Dearborn, snap 8-game streak 
Cotton Bowl tickets are on sale to the general public 
~oday at Gate 10 of the ACC from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Approx­Imately 2,500 tickets of Notre Dame's allotment of 13 000 remain. There is no limit on the number of tickets that ~ay be purchased. The price per ticket is $25. -The Observer 
Lou Holtz is one of the finalists for the Paul "Bear" Bryant Award as college football's Coach of the Year. The other finalists for the award, which will be announced Dec. 17, are Barry Switzer of Oklahoma, Dick McPherson of Syracuse and George Perles of Michigan State. -Associated Press 
The women's basketball team finished third in the Phoenix Classic this weekend, losing to Wisconsin-Green Bay in the first round, 69-65, and beating Brigham Young in the consolation game, 81-69. Details will appear in to­morrow's issue. -The Observer 
The wrestling team finished lOth in the Las V~gas Invitation wrestling tournament this weekend. Details ap­pear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The women's softball club will have a meeting Wednesday, Dec. 9, at 7 p.m. in Farley's Middleroom for anyone interest in joining. If you can't attend, contact Barb at 4290 or Terri at 1260. -The Observer 
The ski team will hold a mandatory meeting for all those involved in any of its functions Wednesday, Dec. 9, at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. Bring your insurance and checkbooks. Questions call Christopher (234-6718), J.P. (271-8082), Maureen (271-0654) or Laurie (2656). -The Ob­server 
The O.C. hockey team has a game tonight against Flanner. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
This weekend's hockey se­ries between Notre Dame and Michigan-Dearborn was sup­posed to indicate which school had the premier team in the American Collegiate Hockey Association. 
But all the weekend split at the JACC decided was that the two teams are too equal for one squad to stand out. Notre Dame won the first game, 5-3, while the Wolves took Saturday's second game, 6-2, to hold on to first place in the ACHA. 
''These are two pretty evenly matched teams," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "They have a couple of forwards who are really cute with the puck and quick. Whatever team is on will be the winner." 
That is just how the series worked out. Notre Dame, now 9-2-2 overall and 3-1-2 in the ACHA, played perhaps its best game of the season on Friday. Dearborn (11-2-3, 4-1-0 dominated Saturday's matchup. 
In Friday's game, Dearborn outshot the Irish, 10-3, in the first period, but behind sopho­more Irish goalie Lance Mad­son, Notre Dame held a 1-0 lead after a period. 
"In the first 10 minutes, if we were to award a prize for effort and keeping us m the game, we'd give Lance Madson the game puck, the game goal net and even throw in the Zam­boni," said Schafer. 

Dearborn's Joe Burton tied the game less than two minutes into the second period, but then the Irish started to take com­mand. Tom Smith's goal gave Notre Dame a 2-1 lead after two periods. Matt Hanzel scored twice in the final period, and Bruce Guay also tallied, as the Irish won, 5-3. 
Notre Dame's second line keyed the victory. Hanzel had two goals and an assist, Tim Kuehl recorded two assists and Brian Montgomery scored one goal. 
"It was a really good hockey game," said Schafer. "There were only four penalties the whole game. The conduct was great. 
"It was a great effort. That's a good team we played. We had to work hard, and we did. They have a couple of good guns we were able to quiet." 
But on Saturday, the Wolves had their guns ready and fired away. Dearborn scored twice in the first period and three times in the second period, while Notre Dame could not amass any kind of offense. By the time the Irish staggered into the third period, Dearborn led, 5-0. 
''Michigan-Dearborn was ex­ceptional," said Schafer. "They outworked us for most of the game, and things were just going their way. We gave up some goals early on that just hurt badly. 
"Lance Madson let a couple in that normally are routine saves for him, but how can you fault someone who plays well every other period of the season?" 
Notre Dame finally put to­gether several scoring threats in the final period, but by then Dearborn goalie Mike Klavon had gotten into a rhythm. The Irish still got two goals from Tim Kuehl and Bob Bilton, but it did not make much of a dent on the outcome. 
Pat Marody led the Dearborn attack with two goals and an assist in the 6-2 victory. Joe Burton added a goal and one assist, and Ron Duda had two assists. 
"They didn't make a whole 
lot of mistakes," said Schafer. 
"You didn't see us stealing the 
puck from them or standing 
alone in front of the goal. 
"They have a number of up­
perclass forwards who are 
clever stickhandlers and goal 
scorers in (Mike) Humitz, Os­
burn and Moradi. Their 
goaltender played very well 
today. He came up with some 
awfully good saves. 
Tile'*-"'Notnl Dame office, located on the third floof of Lafortune Stu· dent c.nt., .:cepta clualfted ..tw.111611Q from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. n.'*-"'Saint ~otflc:e, located on the thln:l floor of ......Collge Cent•, Ka~Pta claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thfougll Friday. DMdllne tor next-clay claaalftedala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must
Classifieds be ~. eltt\81' In 1*801'1 Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ~Pefday. 
NOTICES 
ADOPTION: Loving couple, physiciarl'j:>sychologist, deeply wishes to adopt newborn. Welcoming warm family, love, opportunities! Expenses paid. Le­gal, confidential. Call Ellie or Alan collect 21 2-724-7942. 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING 277-8131 or 237·1949 
................................................................ 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. 
................................................................ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
MRS.COKER,2~7~ 
................................................................ 
TERRIE'S TYPING Word Processing, Laser Printer, Close to Campus. Resumes, letters, papers. 287-1283 
..............................u ............................... . 
Lost: GOLD BRACELET in or near S. Dining Hall. Please cell Colleen £2537. 
;;·i.·E;;sii'"iiE'i:Piii...l..i:osr..Mv...i<Evs 
PLAYING FOOTBALL ON SOUTH QUAD IN FRONT OF ALUMNI. 2 KEYS ON A LEPRACHAUN KEY CHAIN. THEY WERE LOST ON NOV. 21st JUST BEFORE BREAK. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL NANCY AT x3885. 
i:os:r··sai.1·ii;:i;;,;e··-;:H·uR'so·;;:;.·..;2~iiii, 
NO WOMAN'S CLASS RING. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283·13631 
................................................................ 
to the person who TOOK THE WRONG COAT at SA BAR Oh WEDNESDAY: nhas a name in the back and hunting gloves In the pocket. Please call x3948. 
FOR RENT 
Looking for your own room next semes­ter? Need 1·3 roommates tor house, $1Q0-$12!>tno plus utilities. Call 271­0758. 
WORKING FEMALE STUDENT LOOKING FOR THE SAME TO SHARE RUNAWAY BAY APT. $250MO. e 112 UTIUTIES. CALL 259-8277. 
APARTMENT FOR SUBLET 1 or 2 female roommates needed for spring se­mester cell 288-2425 
ROOM with private bath in Christian home for quiet non-smoker grad student. $14Gtnonth. 291·1 177 
............................ .. ..~....•......... :......~.;.... 
2 Bdr STUDENT HOUSE $100 PER PERSON PLUS ELECTRIC NO DEPOSIT-FULL KITCHEN CALL BOB 5· 7PM AT 287-6151 
ROOM FOR RENT: NEW ROOM iN RECENTLY RENOVATED HOUSE, GREAT SPACE WI LOTS OF WIN­DOWS, MINI BLINDS, CARPET, ETC. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS, MOVE IN IMMED., GREAT HOUSEl CALL MI­CHAEL 239-5663 
2 BE DAM APT $250 ¢ E 288· 7760 
................................................................ 
WANTED 
I need 2 riders to Northeast Colorado for Christmas Break Call Chris t 008 
CHRISTMAS BREAK Ride needed to Buffalo or Toronto Call immediately! Joye 2668 
NEED RIDERS Central NJ Dec 18 AM call 2955 
FOR SALE 
-FOR SALE­
·GENUINE HEINTZ PUPPIES. Choose now, we will hold them until the holidays 
Call PETE at 239-5603 or 234-7429 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE 1979 DELTA 88 RUNS GREAT PERFECT FOR ND STUDENT CALL 234-8047 
For Sale Two Season Basketball Tickets, Bleachers Sec. 116, Face Value. Call Marie 239-7668. 
c;;;~i~~·-;:;;~~-;~;·o.:;;;;;·"R;;;;~~;i·s;;~. 
gio's Sun God Christmas Village now Of. fers artificial trees. Check out the 1 and 2 foot trees, perfect for dorm rooms. Get all your lights and decorations with a stu­dent discount, just show ID. Be sure to see the Notre Deme tree II Sergio's Sun God Christmas VIllage 1919 South Mic­higan Street South Bend, IN 287-9283 
................................................................ 
LEATHER BASKETBALLS-WILSON "JET"-NEVER USEDII $25 -x3692 
co.ucii.Fofi.s:.\t:ii.couC'H.FoFi..siii:e 
GOOD CONDITION CALL 2201 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
c;~-;;;~~;·8;;;;.ii;;·c;;~i·;,g"&;;;;;""'"""" 
······~··· ..·················"''"'""····.................... 

SHENANIGANS 
Thank you tor a great Christmas Show ·Friday night · you were wonderful! 
And you ... typists are guilty too. If you only knew where you live. Don't worry, I think the dog collar has tags ... 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MR. GALLAGHER! Love, Kari 
D.C. CLUB BUS SlGNUPS-­The D.C. Club will be aponeorlng a bus home for Chrlatmaa break. The Important Information Ia ae fol· Iowa: Departure: 10:00 P.M. on Friday December 18 from the library circle Arrival In D.C.: Approx. 10:00 A.M. on 
Saturday Dec. 19 at the Greyhound Bus alation downtown For the return trip back to school: Departure: 9:00 P.M. on Mon. Jan 11 from The Greyhound Station Arrival: Approx. 9:00 A.M. on Tuea. Jan. 12 In time to enroll COST: $75 roundtrip -Payment by NO Credit Union check or caah only SIGNUPS•"• Monday December 7 from 7-8 P.M. at the Information booth In the lobby of LIIFortune 
Queatlona call Mike McCarthy at 3218 
To Mark, Tommy, Justin, Chris, Rob, Chuck, Sonny, Dugs, Marty, Paul: Re· member that his smile lives on in you. All my prayers-love,Mimi. 
TRAFFIC TRAINEE South Band branch of a national trans­portation firm hae an opportunity that ollera a dlver8lty of dutlea, growth po­tential and an excellent aelaryt)eneflta package. Quallflcatlona: Bachelor or aaaoclatea degree In general bual­neaa, good organfzetlonal and fnter­paraonel akllla, 35 wpm typing ability (for computer uaege), able to -rk In a teat pacad atmoaphere, willing to work alone If nece...ry. Interested? Send mum. to: So. Bend Manager P.O. Box 771 Sterling Hgta., Mf 48311.0771 
So Our Lovely and favorite Ohioan is back in town after a relaxing break. Yayy II We're trying to get her friends dates to the Manor Christmas SYR, but they are being a bit too picky, so the going is tough. At least I've got MY date for Sat­urday night, last time I checked. 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS SIGNUPS: MON. DEC. 7 AT 7PM IN BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE. PAY­MENT BY CASH OR NO CREDIT UNION CHECK ONLY DEPARTURE: FRI. DEC. 18 10PM FROM CCE BUILDING RETURNS: MON, JAN. 11 BAM FROM GREYHOUND STATION ANY QUEs­TIONS CALL JOHN 2013 
................................................................ 
TO Loretta Ignore Zeid and the reat. JOIN High Energy instead Ill Bill, "Wet lips, dry nose" is the best way to end an SYR. Better luck next time. 
Terry Anne, thanks for a great time Sat­urday· from a classy boutonniere to dan­cing on the porch to watching those crazy ktds say good night -it was a beautiful evening. 
SERVUSI 
VMW • Thanks for a great weekend. Love, Brian 
................................................................ 
PITT CLUB Chrlatmaa Bua Leave: Friday Dec. 18, 10:00 p.m. 
C.C.E. (acroaa from the Morrie Inn) Arrive: Saturday Dec. 19, 6:00 a.m . Greyhound Station Downtown Leave: Monday Jan. 11, 1 :00 p.m. Greyhound Station Downtown COST: $60.00 roundtrip -due at tlma of sign-up Sign-up -lobby of LIIFortune Tuesday, Dec. 8, B:Q0-7:00 p.m. Questions? Mike X3382 or Red X1751 
................................................................ 
For Sale or Trade: 
One Fordham Ticket. Call x1 108. 
................................................................ 
Missy Lahren--l'm still looking for a bike with two seats, if you're still looking for a ride home...the biker---£1168. 
sA'iN:r···MA'iiv:s··..s:ruo.iiN:rs....oNi:v 
Yogi's Yogurt will deliver a minimum or­der of $10 Tuesday and Thursday from 7-9PM 
................................................................ 
ST. LOUIS 
ST. LOUIS I need a ride home for Christmas either Wednesday afternoon or Thursday to that glorious city. Call Pete at 4653. 
i:oFii¥n:.\;:.\Nv.Poi:isiioR''Ii.iO'I;;N·oFi 
CZECH PHYSICIST WILL TELL YOU THAT SOLID STATE IS THE DEVIL'S WORKII GO NUCLEARIII 
wiiFi·;~·~;;;~;;;;·r;;;;j~i:·iiowiiviiR'. 
TIM FROMMER has a BIG show on Tuesday from 5pm to 7pm, and n you are Into groups like THE SHOP ASSIS· TANTS and THE MODE, then be sure and listen to him. 5-7 on Tuesday I Throw your homework onto the fire and listen lnl640 AM 
5.s.,C3Ns.oF.Fi:Accioin:·;·)s~yi~ii·:;~~ 
will and you don't 2)Non-famlliarity with the phone 3)Fear of commnment (more than one pseudo-date) 4)Thinking you have more than you do 5)Starting what you can't finish 
:ra··;:;:;:··:r·iie···euiioF:.\G's...oF..'LP:s:r 
FALL: THANKS FOR BEING THERE FOR ME LAST DEC. 6 AND FOR ALL YOU DID TO HELP ME THROUGH MI­KE'S DEATH. I LOVE YOU ALL, MARK 
;:~·ij;~·R'eoH:.\Ifi·:··,-k~~;;;·;_j;~~;·y~~·i;~;. 
I know It's your birthday. I'll stop by and see you tonight. 

I'd like to go home NOW but I suppose I should stay tor finals. The earliest I can leave is Thursday (12'17) at 4pm. If you're driving to and from Mln­neapotls for Christmas Break, please call Rachael at 284-5447. I need a ride both ways and will share expenses and driving 
Thanks! 

To the Condescending Flirt in Alumni 
(who is liked anyway), ' 
Even though the Bears got lucky in 
the last 40 seconds, we both know the 
VIKINGS are the better team. Neverthe­
less, I play fair -I'll pay upl Import or 
Export? 
From the home office near Cleveland: TOP FIVE REASONS TO THANK GOD FOR GREG K.: 
5. Free munchies 
4. Can always reach top shelf for you 
3. Nifty dashboard decorations 
2. Full confidentiality 
1. You'll never eat dinner alone 
MAUREEN KELLY Here's the next installment of running jokes from Ft. Lauderedale: 
8. Spending a warm, sunny day on a Publix parking lot. 
7. "Can I come with?" 
GOING TO NEW JERSEY? For Sale­Cheap, One way or Round Trip ticket from South Bend to Newark. Call Bob at x1521. 
XMAS GLAMOUR. Give that special guy the beat gift of all -yourulf -aln a glamour portr8lt. Plcturea by nation­ally publlahed model photographer. Joe Ringer. 287-(1813. 
Hey, Three Name 
It must have felt good to score 
15-11, 15-10 
At least it wasn't a bore 
We'll have to do It again 
N:·M;;a................................................. ICE .. 
Hope you had fun Friday Garfield 
Fiiih·Fi;;;;~·M~c~;;;;: ................................ 
Please Congratulate Cindy & Sue on a 
tremendous effort last Thursday The Bros . 
'Rj-p:·;:;;~~~·.-·;:;;;·~~~-~,;;~~d'j~~i'iii'~p. 
You're only behind by a small amount (100 or so points). Have a good time in Cincinnati. Have a beautnul l~e. I'll see you at dinner tonight. 
TO A MAN THEY CALL...ESPOTATOES 
(or sometimes he just goes by 'T'): 
I can't walt until I'm 30111 
Take me now or lose me forever ... 
·-Fawning Domette 

Wh~i~~~~··;;;w;~;d·i~·~,;-~··j,jj·,~·-~;-;;-r;;r 
on Bourbon St? I heard she was last seen saving the parade and the yellow crayolall 
How could I ask for more? Candlelight, wine, pizza, Glee Club, dancing, and an incredible suprise of a Christmas pres­ent... not to mention the beautiful flowers. Let's just forget about the coat incident and the tailed dining hall attempt ... I still like you. Thanks tor a terriftc evening. JA 
Lyons SYR "score" card: 
Hug, hug. hug, SQUEEZE?? 
Hey, y'all Wish NiNi a happy 20th birthday (early) 
To the Hog-Nappers, 
For those of you who called at 4am this weekend, we very much want our Hog back. Willing to negotiate. Contact the Slug at £3105 at 7pm Monday. Iden­tities will be protected, we just want the 
Hog back. 

DOME-OPOLY a great Chrlatmea alftt 
DOME·OPOLY Available now at ND-SMC Booketoree 
................................................................ 
DOME-OPOLY The gift for alumni who have every­thing 
....................ooi.i'e:OPoi:'Y................... ..........j;iiG'Hr..ro'i:iF·E·Me.iiriNi3.......... 
RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING Tues. Dec. 8 LaFortune Mont. Theatre 
All Dorm Reps, DC Trippers must attend or send rep. 
Will discuss DC trip, Mass, fact sheets, speakers ALL WELCOMEII 
ii;y·:··s;;·,..;;;~;··;i:~··;~~~..birthd~yi ..:i~~~ 
remember you cen always find a new way. A lifetime's never too long. KERPLUNKERSI Love, a fellow Search fag 
................................................................ 
MARIJO YATESI Just to wieh you the best birthday of your life, wnh love from a couple of OLD big sisters. 
;:~..~~iii;~;i~':.\iii~~;~"i'iiij;''i;:d;'Y:··~ 
dedicate theae 5 "linea" 5. Don'tl Stopl . . . 4. Please baby, baby. baby (x3) . . . PLEASEII 3. Your tips are like the flowing of the St. Lawrence River. 2. 1 ceme to Americe for big ... 1. You have a nice set of coconutslll Happy b-d•y you natural woman! Who loves you b8by? MD,KP,MR,MS,BMW PS. Be­ware of bare fMt In the 'br8rel 
Amy Gibbs' Famous Sayings 1.Teke a Pllll 2.C.ootl 3.Hey, how ya' doin'? 4.Aboia-you eat too muchl 5.Why don't you pull the stick out of your ... I 6.Do ya' thinkl 7.Can I use your phone? 
B. Fine, thanks for askingl 9.The Federal Deficn,my phone bill. the aky 10.Artzie,Hayeser,Aboyeal Love ya Gib­by! JA's 
····H;;wy··ii;;tt;;;~;;·i~ ..c;;;~;;i;··J,-;;,~-~~~ ... 
We love youll Oh that's EXCrrtNGII 

Monday, December 7, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
Kentucky outlasts Indiana 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
freshman-sophomore guard combination of Smith and Wil­liams. 
"Rivers played so well and he is a fine basketball player," Crum said. "He showed what a senior guard can do against inexperience. We did not con­tain him well." 
But Phelps said he was happy that a cram session of film­watching helped the other players in the offense to make major contributions. 
''After we lost to Indiana Tuesday night, all we did Wed­nesday was look at four reels of game film and saw how we played too quick and how many three-pointers we didn't need to take," Phelps said. 
"I felt if David was in control to create and then worry about scoring, the the other players would get more involved." 
Gary Voce added 12 points and six rebounds, and Mark Stevenson had 10 points and seven boards. Rivers also had seven rebounds. 
As much as Irish offense hummed along, the Louisville offense just could not get in tune. Notre Dame hit almost 55 percent of their shots, includ­ing 63 percent in the first half, while the Cardinals struggled and hit just 37 percent from two-point range and were un­successful in 14 attempts from three-point range. 
Louisville had a lot of players who couldn't exorcise their shooting futility. Herbert Crook, Williams and Kenny Payne combined to hit a frigid 11 of 37 field goals and Payne and Williams put the icing on the cold shooting by missing all 10 of their three-point attempts. 
· 
Smith, the Cardinals' highly-touted freshman guard, hit just one-of-five before fouling out. 
"I think other than Pervis, I doubt if we had any player play up to his ability," said Crum. "I thought some of our sop­homores, juniors and seniors played like freshmen, too. They were basket cases out there and I'm not sure " 
• 
Group Charters & Tours • Card Tables 

• 
Restrooms • Radios 

• 
Your DESIGNATED Driver • Tape Players 


CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 


Despite losing to Indiana, who fell to Kentucky in over­time, 82-76, in the second half of Saturday's doubleheader, Rivers and Stevenson said that game helped them prepare to play Louisville, Notre Dame's second straight big test on the road. 
"I think it gave us confidence because even though we didn't play very well at all, and In­diana's a very good team, we were able to stick with them at certain points," Rivers said. 
"This was a really good game for our whole team be­cause we played well for the whole 40 minutes," Stevenson said. "The Indiana game taught us to keep our concen­tration high for the whole game, becuse we slipped at Kentucky center Robert Lock rejects a shot by Indiana's Dean Gar­times against them." rett. The Wildcats held on for an 82-76 overtime win over the 
The Irish didn't let up in the Hoosiers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The first Big Four Classic was the last for the seniors of the schools involved and both winning teams needed the experience of the upperclassmen. 
In the second game, No. 2 Kentucky, which starts four seniors, needed overtime to beat fifth-ranked Indiana 82-76. Each of the Wildcat starters scored in double figures with Cedric Jenkins scoring 14 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. 
Actually, it was Kentucky's only non-senior starter who hit the shot that won the game. 
Sophomore Rex Chapman, who had been suffering through a poor shooting performance for him, nailed a 3-pointer with 
1: 48 left in overtime to give Kentucky a 78-76 lead. 

"It was a spur of the moment thing, we were down one and needed to get something going," Chapman, who finished with 20 points, said. "I saw Cedric set a good pick for me and when I came off I let it go and it felt good when it left my hand." 
Indiana, 2-1, forced the over­time when freshman Jay Ed­wards hit from the baseline 
second half. Notre Dame im­mediately added to the 14-point lead and with driving, double­
Voce

pump windmill layup by Rivers 
continued from page 16

and a left-hand baby hook by Voce, it had its biggest lead of the day at 55-33, with just over twice. The 6-9 Voce took some 13 minutes to play. of the pressure off Irish point 
guard David Rivers by estab­
IRISH ITEMS -The Hoosier lishing himself as a scoring Dame crowd represents the threat from the inside. largest crowd to attend a Notre "I felt Voce was the most im­Dame regular season basket­portant reason we established ball game. The previous high our game plan," Phelps noted. was 37,283 at the Pontiac Sil­Rivers was brilliant. His 32 verdome for a game against points attest to that. Michigan ... David Rivers was BQt Voce gave Phelps the named the MVP of the kind of performance that kept doubleheader. Joining Rivers Louisville guessing. on the All Big Four Team were He pump-faked the Cardinal Ellison, Kentucky's Ed shot-blockers, getting them off Davender and Cedric Jenkins their feet. He ran the floor, and Indiana's Rick Calloway. finishing off a Scott Paddock 
steal with an authoritative 
dunk. And he summed up 
Louisville's offensive frustra­
tion when he swatted a Crook 
shot out of the air and into press 
row. 

"I think we did well against 
their big men," Voce said. 
"Pervis got 23, but overall I 
think we slowed them down. 

"Those guys are big and 
they're good shot blockers and 
rebounders . . . I've been 
working in practice on trying 
to pump-fake more often. 
Sometimes that's what you 
have to do to get a shot off 
against guys like that." 

Ellison slouched on a bench 
in the Louisville lockerroom 
after the game was over. This 
time his long arms and lanky 
frame were not enough to in­
timidate an opponent into 
staying out of the middle. 

"Their whole squad played 
well," he said of the Irish. 
"They know their roles. When 
you look at the stats, all that 
comes to mind is David Rivers. 
But Gary Voce was tough. He 
isn't a dominating player, but 
all in all he played well." 
Saturday'a R..ulta 
Notr1 Dame 119, Loulavllle 54 
Notr1 Dame (611) 

M FG-A n-A R F p Stevenson 36 5-9 0-2 7 2 10 Voce 30 5·10 2-3 6 4 12 Paddock 37 1-3 1-2 5 4 3 Rivers 39 12-20 6-8 7 2 32 Jackson 30 1-4 2-2 1 2 4 Robinson 8 o-o o-o 2 3 0 Singleton 10 2·2 o-o 0 1 4 Connor 7 2-3 o-o 2 0 4 Ellery 1 o-o o-o 0 0 0 Nicgorskl 1 o-o 0-0 1 0 0 Nanni 1 o-o o-o 0 0 0 
200 211-51 11-17 31 111 1111 • 
FG Pet. -.549. FT Pet. • .847. Team rebounds -3. Tumovers -18:. Assists -8 (Paddock 3). Three-point -Rivers 2-3, Jack­son 0-1. T echnlcals -none. 
Loulavllle (54) 

M FG·A n-A R F P Crook 33 5-13 0-1 6 1 10 Ellison 38 10-14 3-6 9 4 23 Spencer 10 o-1 o-o o 2 o Williams 32 3·10 2·2 4 1 8 Smith 23 1-5 1-2 2 5 3 Payne 28 3-14 0-0 7 1 6 Abram 27 1-4 1-2 5 4 3 Hawley 9 Q-1 1-2 2 2 1 
200 2W2 6-15 35 20 54 

FG Pet. -.371. FT Pet. • .533. Team rebounds -3. Tumovers-17:. Assists -13 (Williams 4). Three-point -Williams 0-4, Silh 0-1, Payne 0-6, Abram 0·2, Hawley 0·1. Techmcals -none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 43, Louisville 29. Officials-Paul Housman, Rusty Herring, Sam Croll (all ACC). A -43,801 

-

page 12 
Once-lowly Saints clinch playoff spot 
Associated Press 
The San Francisco 49ers and Washington Redskins, who make a habit of being in the playoffs, were joined there Sunday by the New Orleans Saints. 
The Saints? the NFL's peren­nial losers, the team that went 20 years without a winning record? 
Yes, those Saints, who not only are winners this year at 9-3, but are headed for postseason action for the first time. 
New Orleans assured itself of at least a wild-card berth Sun­day with a 44-34 victory over Tampa Bay. That left the Saints one game behind the 49ers, 23-12 winners at Green Bay, in the NFC West. 
San Francisco qualified for the playoffs for the fifth straight year and is 10-2, the best record in the league. 
Washington got into the playoffs for the fifth time in six years and won the NFC East for the fourth time in seven seasons with a 34-17 decision at St. Louis. 
Chicago, which has a playoff 

Miami edges Gamecocks 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The Orange Bowl got just what it wanted--a New Year's night showdown be­tween No. 1 Oklahoma and No. 2 Miami for the national title. 
The Miami Hurricanes con­cluded their regular season with an 11-0 record Saturday by beating South Carolina 20-16 to set up the meeting against the Sooners, also 11-0. 
Miami learned it would receive the Orange Bowl bid al­most three weeks ago but had to beat No. 10 Notre Dame and No. 8 South Carolina to make the bowl a winner-take-all championship football game. 
Miami has handed the Sooners their only two losses in the last three seasons. 
berth secured, needed a last­minute touchdown to beat the Minnesota Vikings, 30-24, to clinch the Central. The Vikings are the only other NFC Central team with a winning record. 
All three AFC divisions are muddled, with the Central in a three-way tie among Cleveland, Pittsburgh and Houston. Indianapolis helped create that situation with a 9-7 victory over the Browns, giving the Colts the lead in the East. 
Denver's 31-20 decision over New England lifted the Broncos past San Diego, a 33-18 loser at Houston, and Seattle, which was beaten 13-9 in Pit­tsburgh. The Broncos, 8-3-1, lead the West with the AFC's best record. 
The Observer 

Irish left wing Tom Smith (20) scores the go-ahead goal In the second period of Friday night's game against Michigan-Dearborn. The goal gave Notre 
AMERICAN CANCER 
SOCIE1Ys 


which meet diocesan regulations across the country 
Host Couple Program 
4-5 sessions $25 


What Can An 
MBA 
Degree 
Do For 
You? 
T · H · E 
OHIO 
Retreat 

srA1E 
UNIVERSITY 
Weekend 

*Registration deadline: Dec. lith Call Campus Ministry Badin Office: 239-5242 
Monday, December 7, 1987 


An MBA degree from Ohio State can bring you greater opponunities, income, and career challenges. Our nationally recognized MBA program offers merit-based fmancial aid and 
has no prerequisites. We enroll l:xlth 
business and nonbusiness majors. And many of our graduates have gone on to jobs with established 
leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, 
AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For 
a free brochure al:xlut our programs, 
please write or call: 

Direaor, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
177 5 College Road 

Columbus, OH 43210-1399 
614-292-8511 


AVOID 1HECPA REVUE \X'e hdieYe the Com·iser-.\\ilkr (OUrsc is the finest prepardtion ltlr the CPA exam a\·aila­hle, and we're not the onh· ones ... "Lil't' mstruction m•er casette is l'ery good' rtJIIr t'tliii'St' centers 011 top1cs that an· pertinmt, so time 1s spent where it counts." Anthony Cannizzaro, Elmhurst College '85 · ' ... The course u•as uery comprehensipe and st•emed to emphasize the q,uestions u•hich appeared on the exam. I'm xlad I took the course as it certalllil! enahh·d me to pass the exam." . Dan Eitman, DePaul University 'Hh AT CONVISER-MILLER WE ARE NOT ONLY CONFIDENT OF YOUR EXAM SUCCESS, WE GUARANTEE IT. Program Begins in South Bend -;oR FURTHER conviser-millerEarly February INFORMATION Ct?egCALL 312-782-5170  

.. 
FAMILY HAIRCARE SAVINGSI 
------COUPON SAVINGS------­
$1 ~"~~~s~~~ HAIRCUT 
Kids cuts, Reg. $6 MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
$5 OFF ANY PERM 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Ma~" 277-3770 
-
Monday, December 7, 1987 
Relief 
continued from page 16 
have been the ultimate feeling in sport into a bittersweet mo­ment. 
Another person who was relieved by Brown's win was Jim Brock, Executive Vice President of the Cotton Bowl Comittee. For the third time in the last four years, the Cotton Bowl will feature the Reisman Trophy winner. In 1985, Bo Jackson led Auburn to he Cot­ton Bowl against Texas A&M, where the Tigers lost, 36-16. One year earlier, Doug Flu tie and Bostron College went to Dallas where they beat Hous­ton, 45-28. 
"I'm very excited," said Brock. "Tim Brown is cer­tainly deserving of the Heis­man. I was a little nervous, but I made some calls on my own and found out that Brown was ahead. We've been very lucky to have three of the last four winners in the Cotton Bowl." 
The Observer 
The Heisman vote 

Player, team 1st 2nd 3rd Tim Brown, Notre Dame 324 173 124 Don McPherson, Syracuse 167 135 60 Gordie Lockbaum, Holy Cross 108 103 127 Lorenzo White, Michigan State 89 121 123 Craig Heyward, Pittsburgh 17 44 31 Chris Spielman, Ohio State 15 20 25 Thurmon Thomas, Oklahoma St. 11 23 20 Gaston Green, UCLA 4 13 35 Emmett Smith, Florida 2 11 42 Bobby Humphrey, Alabama 5 17 14 
Region-by-region vote 

Region 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Northeast McPherson Brown Lockbaum White Mid-Atlantic Brown McPherson Lockbaum White South Brown White Lockbaum McPherson Southwest Brown Lockbaum McPherson White Midwest Brown White Lockbaum SpielmanFar West Brown White Lockbaum McPherson 
Total 1442 831 657 632 170 110 99 73 70 63 

5th Heyward Heyward Humphrey Thomas McPherson Green 
page 13 
Brown 
continued from page 1 

place vote, two for a second, and one for a third. Ballots are tabulated from 1,050 voters from all forms of the media. Brown received 324 first-place votes, 173 second-place votes, and 124 third-place votes. 
McPherson was named first on 167 ballots while getting 135 and 60 second-and third-place selections, respectively. 
Helaman Wlnnera The list of the winners of the Heisman Trophy with 
their school and position: 1987-Tim Brown, Notra Dame, FL 1986-Vinny Testaverde, Miami, Fla., QB 1985-Bo Jackson, Auburn, TB 1984-Doug Flutie, Boston College, QB 1983-Mike Rozier, Nebraska,TB 1982-Herschel Walker, Georgia, HB 1981-Marcus Allen, Southern Cal, TB 1980-George Rogers, South Carolina, HB 1979-Charles White, Southern Cal, TB 1978-Billy Sims, Oklahoma, HB 1977-Earl Campbell, Texas, FB 1976-Tony Dorsett, Pittsburgh, HB 1975-Archie Griffin, Ohio State, HB 1974-Archie Griffin, Ohio State, HB 1973-John Cappelletti, Penn State, HB 1972-Johnny Rodgers, Nebraska, FL t 97 I -Pat Sullivan, Auburn, QB I 970-Jim Plunkett, Stanford, QB 1969-Steve Owens, Oklahoma, HB 1968-0.J. Simpson, Southern Cal, TB 1967-Gary Beban, UCLA, QB 1966-Steve Spurrier, Florida, QB 1965-Mike Garrett, Southern Cat, TB 1984-John Huerta, Notre Dame, OB 1963-Roger Staubach, Navy, QB 1962-Terry Baker, Oregon State, QB 1961-Ernie Davis, Syracuse, HB 1960-Joe Bellino, Navy, HB 1959-Billy Cannon, LSU, HB 1958-Pete Dawkins, Army, HB 1957-John David Crow, Texas A&M, HB 1956-Paut Hornung, Notre Dame, OB 1955-Howard Cassady, Ohio State, HB 1954-Aian Ameche, Wisconsin, FB 1953-John Lattner, Notre Dame, HB 1952-Billy Vessels, Oklahoma, HB 1951-Dick Kazmaier, Princeton, HB 1950-Vic Janowicz, Ohio State, HB 1949-Leon Hart, Notre Dame, E 1948-Doak Walker, SMU, HB 1947-John Lujack, Notre Dame, QB 1946-Gtenn Davis, Army, HB 1945-Doc Blanchard, Army, HB 1944-Les Horvath, Ohio State, QB 1943-Angalo Bertelli, Notre Dame, OB 1942-Frank Sinkwlch, Georgia, HB 1941-Bruce Smith, Minnesota, HB 1940-Tom Harmon, Michigan, HB I 939-Nile Kinnick, Iowa, HB 1938-Davey O'Brien, TCU, QB 1937-Ciint Frank, Yale, HB 




GIVE THE GIFT OF A SUNTAN! 

Gift certificates Available 
Specials: 

10 Bed visits for $39.00 5 Booth visits for $12.50 Combo of 3 Bed & 3 Booth for $19.50 
2n-1o26 JMSPLAZA 
4609 Gn,. RL MllllaWib
8 
TAN~ HAWAIIAN 
SOUTH OF UNIVERSITY 

ND-Hammes Bookstore-2nd Floor CHRISTMAS BOOK SPECIALS 
Starting Saturday December 5th through December 23rd. 20°/o Discount on all titles listed on The Publishers Weekly's Best Sellers List. 10°/o Discount on all Hardbound Trade Books. 
Ideal Lasting Gifts. Give a book for Christmas. 
page 14 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
It was, to say the least, in­credible. 
The first-ever Collegiate Na­tional Catholic Swimming and Diving Championships at­tracted many of the top ath­letes in the country to the Notre Dame campus. It was the beginning of a new tradition in collegiate swimming. It was something Ulat can only get bigger and better. 
"I think it was the best cham­pionship anybody could run," Villanova coach Ed Geisz said. "Tim Welsh ran the best cham­pionship for men and women in the country. It was an exciting meet." 
"I told my team I was thrilled to be a part of it," Fordham coach Don Galuzzi said. "It was excellent plan­ning, and we really enjoyed our stay. We're allready lookng forward to it next year in Vil­lanova." 
Irish coach Tim Welsh, Galuzzi, and Geisz had talked about organizing such a meet for years, but nothing had ever materialized, Finally, the three schools combined efforts with Welsh volunteering as the host for the inaugural event. Mter the dust and smoke had cleared from 15 record-setting performances, Welsh could not believe the dramatic success of the meet. 
"I've probably spent more time and more energy on plan­ning and working than I thought," Welsh said. "Even with that, it was more fun, more exciting than I ever im­agined. The spirit of the teams was a verification that this was the right thing to do." 
Most coaches were quick to credit part of the success of the meet to the spacious facilites at Rolf's Aquatics Center. Only in its second year of operation, the facilty left lasting impres­sions on the teams. 
"The facilities here are won­derful," Geisz said. "The water is the right temperature, and it is fast. I think it is one of the best facilities in the country.'' 
"The facility is an excellently-planned facility, not just for competitive swim­ming, but for total recreation,'' Galuzzi said. "It is competition geared, but also allows for the total program." 

Welsh credited the success of the meet to a number of people, stressing the importance of the volunteers that donated valu­able time and knowledge. 
"What makes Notre Dame special is that the people that ran the meet are all first class people," he said. "There were three major parts. The first was freshman Jim Byrne's par­ents who volunteered to do all the scoring on their own com-_ puter system. Second was the sports information depart­ment. They did a magnificent job of covering pre-meet, during the meet, and the post­meet. Finally was the core meet staff from the head offi­cial to the student volunteers.'' 
The huge success of this meet, though, leaves Vil­lanova's Geisz at a disadvan­tage when preparing for next year's meet. 
"I don't know how we can im­prove on it," he said. 
Monday, December 7, 1987
The Observer 
Depth 
continued from page 16 
of 16 places available, we had six of them. We're a Fighting Irish team in that we stay in the race from the prelims until the final person touches the wall. This pool has allowed us to train a great team." 
The Irish women also turned in a good team performance, taking second to a strong Bos­ton College squad, 837.5-626. Notre Dame was a solid second throughout the entire champi­onship meet. 
"We're delighted with the women," Welsh said. "We told the women at the beginning of the meet that if we could get second we would think it was an outstanding team perfor­mance. The women achieved this by a lot of people scoring and a lot of people improving." 
"The kids did really well," 
Boston College coach Tom 
Groden said. "I was very 
happy with the performance. 
Notre Dame took the lead on 
the first day, and the kids 
responded to it. It was well 
worth the trip out here." 

cky Wood won the 100 and 200 
breastroke, Amy Darlington 
the 200 freestyle, and Andrea 
Bonny took the 1-meter diving 
title. 

Welsh saw the impressive 
showings from both teams as a 
great stride for the Irish swim­
ming program. 
"We think of the two teams as one," Welsh said. "The pro­grams are in the same place. We're together and moving ahead. There's no measure­ment at the amount of confi­dence out team has gained. The most important thing is to open our eyes at what the next step ·will be. We're not at the top, but we can see it from here." 
IRISH ITEMS -Welsh was named men's coach of the meet, while Boston College's Groden took the honors on the 
women's side... Villanova's 
Chris Craft took the male ath­
lete of the meet, and Cindi 
Luciani of Providence was the 
female athlete of the 
meet ... Craft qualified for the 
Olympic trials with his times 
in the 100 and 200 butterfly, and 
Geisz thinks he can get a spot 
on the team ... Villanova will 
host the meet next year ... A 
total of 15 pool records were set 
during the 
weekend ... Villanova's time of 
3:03.91 in the 400-freestyle relay was the fastest time for that event in the United States this year ... The Irish women downed Fordham in a dual meet Sunday 111-104... The Irish men lost to Villanova 122­95 Sunday, but downed Fordham 139.5-78.5 

1M-~ 
277-7026 Booth Night everyTuesda 5:00 -8:00 pm

EXPERIENCE THE MAGIC OF THE .MIND PERFORMED BY GARY CONRAD AT 
WASHINGTON HALL ON .MONDAY DECEMBER 7, AT 9:00. 
GARY USES HYPNOTISM AND IMAGINISM ALONG WITH AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION 
SEE YOUR FRIENDS: 

1. 
ACT LIKE DUCKS AND QUACK HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

2. 
THINK EVERYONE AROUND THEM IS NAKED 

3. 
REMEMBER THE NAMES OF THEIR KINDERGARTEN CLASSMATES 

4. 
LOOK FOR THEIR LOST BELLY BUTTON (IN CHINESE) 

5. 
RELIVE PAST LNES 



THE FUNNIEST AND MOST AMAZING SHOW OF THE YEAR! $1 ADMISSION AT THE DOOR 
FREE 32 oz. SOFT DRINR 

join us for "MEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatball Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 

1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 2 71-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Monday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 

---~~-~--------------­

Monday, December 7, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
• 
6:00p.m. Presentation/Reception for all AEME, ChE, E&CE students interested in discovering career opportunites with General Mills, Inc. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Monterey Muffin Melt  Fried chicken  
Roast Beef  Spaghetti w!Meat Sauce &  
Sweet and Sour Pork  Marinara Sauce  
Fettucini Alfredo  Cheese Enchiladas  
Deli Bar  


Comics 
Bloom County 
Mf? ~LIJI 7He NO CllfflNN WfiNT51lJ t.tT'5 KNOW If YOtl'~ (J() fOR fl 
f()()Vp IINY C(}(JfU a= t.rTHZfiNI-Mf!R80N5•. WHIITCHMIICAUff _ ~ ) 
f(j£1.. ­(J(YW/lS' 
'-
Beernuts 
~ 
... AND NOIJ. TIHE FO~ A 1t C.Or1M(R.CIAL
f:{ &E.IlK .. 
THIS WEEK'S EVENTS: 
!Moneta~: I 
Gary Conrad , Hypnotist show: 
Washington 
Theodore's 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
We /Nm?RIIff 7HI5 5TOf(Y VNIJI)I!/VOCIIU.Y... I
Pt.M5€ CONTINI/&.

10 Ct.cl/1? 1/f? fl &ROWIN& m~ umt £Jeii5T 15 CON'TROVci?~Y: f?ClfmiOY'5 Marmota monax u· fflltT MIMI/{.. S~C/~5. Wf ''THtCOMMON .I1H()()61ff NOW &a TO f'!?Of. J8. I?Ot.50N &f?.OI/NPHO&.~ T tx:W'T 
IWA5A

ITT 7Hf£ VNIV. OF ~XfiS WORK WlfH ~IOLO&Y ptff.: I P/&5. tt.AM/1.(/ \ I 5(1.16/IK.I ) 
Mark Williams 
h/EU, FXCIT£fi1Fit!T IS ,... AMD Tf!IIT {ONCWD£5 

BU!t..DIN& H(R.( JiM. FOoTf>/f LL fiND !T5 {/YJST­
{)()R FFATVN CiV THF 
JUST ltEwr TO ANNaJittE RVC.T!OIIf -"eo '/£AI:S Of 
TH£ AWA~P IN A Fnv INFLATED ?16-S'' fW.K 
HOURS I AND NOW FOR A 
CJY'11:f£f.CIAL EREIW... 

IWednesda~:l 
Outrageous Fortune­ITuesda~:l Cushing 
Gary Conrad , Auditorium Hypnotist Gary Conrad -seminars -seminars 
Nightclub night 
/ 

!Friday: I GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS 1Thursda~: I CONCERT 
Stepan Center
Outrageous Fortune-Children of a Cushing Lesser God-Auditorium 

Cushing Auditorium 
ACROSS 1 Part of Earth 5 Mongol 
capital (with 
16A) 10 A Turner 14 Bovine abode 15 Betel palm 16 See SA 17 Paradise 18 Street show 19 Small pastry 
20  Nile  source  
21  First victim  
22  Darns  
23  Pace  

24 Fountain 
drinks 26 Ran· 30 Fink 33 VIolently 
collapse In 36 Kind of stable 38 Kingly 39 At the bottom 40 Floral flags 41 Pain reliever 42 -Moines 43 Boring voice 46 Hall-of-Famer 
Ralph 47 Roman poet 51 Memento 54 Lyra star 57 Fourth 
dimension 58 Confess 59 "Oliver" villain 60 First man 61 Polynesian 
first man 62 Smells 63 Half a tropic 
Isle? 64 Site of old 
Olympics 65 Ling Ling 66 NC college 
DOWN 1 Encourages 2 Late Afr. 
leader 3 Ms Dunne 4 Academy city 5 Silent vamp 6 Bedouin 
.__ 


© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 7 Sainted 
woman 8 Spotted cat 9 "Norma -" 
10 Mandolin kin 11 Comic King 12 Ancient balm 13 Picnic pests 22 A Dolly 25 Part of FOR 27 Controversial 28 Major Inventor 29 -room 30 Depend 31 Galway Isles 32 Phoenician 
port 33 Footnote abbr. l!:::!::=:::=:~::::;:==:::::::~!!J 34 Horse 12105187 

35 Gr. letters 37 Film 

alternative 39 Masterson 48 Gore -52 Devilish 44 Elko's state 49 Idealized 53 Norse god 45 Famed trail concept 55 Prepare 46 Flightless 50 Devilish one 56 Handle 
birds 51 Appraise 59 Dandy 
... 
.. 
y 
.. 
.. 
.. Sports
eape 16 Monday, December 7, 1987 
Irish learn lesson, dump Louisville 
By RICK RIETBROCK before falling through to give Assistant Sports Editor the Irish a seven-point bulge. LaBradford Smith hit a INDIANAPOLIS Notre layup, his only field goal of the 
Dame looked like a star pupil day, but freshman Tim Saturday and showed a Hoosier Singleton hit an 18-footer with Dome classroom of 43,601 the 45-second clock down to people what it learned by five, Rivers added a 17-footer 
thrashing Louisville, 69-54, in and three-pointer to continue the inaugural Bank One Big the Notre Dame run. Four Classic. 
The Irish offense appeared to Louisville's Keith Williams have learned from its poor per­canned a jumper, but the Irish formance against Indiana, kept the pressure on. Sean Con­
while Louisville looked like it nor, who had just come off the has some homework to do, in bench, promptly drilled a putting together a 19-4 run mid­jumper from the left side and way through the first half. That Singleton got a steal and layup. streak put the Irish on top, 39­23, and Louisville head coach The surge was punctuatedDenny Crum admitted that with a nice example of ball after the surge, "we were reversal, something Irish head never in the game." coach Digger Phelps was lon­
With just over eight minutes ging for against Indiana. The 
to go in the first half, Pervis Irish sent the ball around the Ellison, who finished with 23 Louisville defense from Rivers points and was the Cardinals' to Singleton to Connor for the 
only effective scoring threat, jumper that gave the Irish the powered in a layup and was 14-point lead with just over slapped by Scott Paddock to three minutes left in the half. 
pull Louisville within one at 20-The Irish held that margin
19. But Ellison missed the free and went in at half with a 43-29 
. throw and the Irish exploded. advantage. 
David Rivers hit a 12-footer, Rivers again led the Irish drove through the lane and hit scoring with a career-high 32 a soft scoop shot and added a points against Louisville's 
Irish center Gary Voce hits a left hook over Louisville's Herbert
pull-up jumper in the lane that 

Crook (41) and Felton Spencer In Notre Dame's 69-54 victory over
bounced on the rim three times see IRISH, page 11 
the Cardinals Saturday. 

Irish front line rises above UL big men 
By MARTY STRASEN the Big Four Classic on Satur­only Cardinal threat from in­second half. Louisville shot 37.1 Assistant Sports Editor day afternoon. side the paint. percent as a team. As if they Starting center Fulton Spen­weren't throwing up enough 
INDIANAPOLIS-More than Irish head coach Digger cer (7-foot-1) and forward Her­bricks from 12-15 feet, the Car­43,000 screaming fans sur­Phelps said before the game he bert Crook (6-7) were not dinals missed all 14 of their rounding a small hardwood did not think Notre Dame had nearly as effective against the three-point attempts. surface in the made-for­the front line to match up with Irish, who employed a packed "I wanted Louisville to beat football Hoosier Dome can Louisville. He probably was zone for most of the game. us from the outside, and I felt make even the largest of col­right, but what his squad Spencer was held scoreless on we had to get the ball inside," lege basketball players seem lacked in height and experi­only one field-goal attempt. Phelps said. small. ence it made up for with a game Crook scored 10 points on 5-of-The plan worked to perfec­
So can a zone defense. And a plan that kept the Cardinals 13 shooting, with most of those tion. 
little hard work. outside. shots coming from the outside. Senior center-forward Gary "They used their zone The rest of the Cardinals Voce was a factor in the lane That's how Notre Dame's big defense as a means of stopping were off the mark from the on both ends of the floor, men handled a larger and more our inside game, and it field as well. Keith Williams scoring 12 points, pulling down
.. experienced Louisville front worked," said Louisville's 6-9 was 3-of-10 and freshman sen­six boards and stealing the ball line and routed the 13th-ranked forward Pervis Ellison, who sation LaBradford Smith was Cardinals by a 69-54 score in managed 23 points and was the 1-of-5 before he fouled out in the see VOCE, page 11 

Swim teams surprise foes, finish second 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
In the end, the favorite 
prevailed, but it was anything 
but easy. 

With only five events left in 
the three-day competition, Vil­
lanova trailed surprising Notre 
Dame, 555-545.5. The powerful 
Wildcats, however, took con­
trol in those five events and 
went on to take the first-ever 
National Catholic Swimming 
and Diving Championships 
title 757.5-727. 

While Wildcat coach f<.;a 
Geisz was ecstatic over the vic­
tory, he never thought it would 
be so hard to accomplish. All 
17 Villanova swimmers had to 
swim personal best times in or­
der to down the Irish. 
"We knew it could go down to the wire," Geisz said. "It was one of the most exciting championships my team was ever in. The Notre Dame team was unbelievably strong. I don't know where they got their swimmers, but they did one hell of a job." 
"If you had told me that we would have the lead after the 100 free on the last night, I would not have believed it would happen," a jublilant Tim Welsh said of his Irish squad. "But we knew it was possible, especially after the prelims. The team created the deter­mination and excitement and carried it out.'' 
The Irish men set 10 school records with the second-place finish. Paul Godfrey paced the Irish effort with first-place finishes in the 500 and 1650 freestyle events, but it was the team depth that accounted for the strong finish. 
"The thing we're proudest of is approaching the top of the heap through team depth," Welsh said. "We went ahead at the end of the 100 free because 
see DEPTH, page 14 
Brown endures criticism of his selection 
NEW YORK -How do you spell relief? Saturday night in New York Irish senior flanker Tim Brown spelled it H-e-i-s-m-a-n. 
It's odd that after winning college football's most prestigous award, Brown felt relief-not happiness, jubilation, or ecstasy, but relief. On one hand, he was relieved that it was finally all over with. After all, he'd been dealing with Reisman hoopla all season long. 
But what he was most relieved by was that the events of the last two weeks were done. After sub­par performances in consecutive losses to Penn State and Miami, Brown went from Reisman shoo­in to Reisman drop-out in the eyes of some media members who said that maybe Brown wasn't as deserving as they had made him out to be. Suddenly, Syracuse quarterback Don McPherson was very much in the picture . 
"It really is (a relief) , " Brown said after the award. "I found out this week that I was a bad person, and I didn't know that. I was relieved that everything was behind me, and I didn't have to worry about what people were going to say about me in the papers." 
The criticism was such that Brown began to take it personally. 
"It did in a way because I think I'm a pretty good person when people have bad things to say about me," Brown said of the attacks on his play. "I took it personally as if they were attackmg me as a person. Whatever they were saying, I don't feel they had any right to say it." 

Brown, who at times in the post-award press con­ference appeared grim and tight-lipped under the onslaught of critical questions, endured the trial which tried to determine if he really was the best player in college football this year or if he got the award for his career at Notre Dame. 
Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 

"I think that half the people vote on careers and half vote on one season," Brown answered. "It's not really right for me to say which one I was. I had a good four years at Notre Dame, and I also had a good year." 
The questioning went so far as to ask Brown if he thought there should be two awards -a career award and a season award. 
"I think that's taking it a little too far," Brown said. "This is tough enough for a lot of people. To try to come up with an award like that would be really tough." 
Of course, a big criticism of Brown's winning was that he played at Notre Dame, where almost every game is played on national television. 
"I'm not going to sit here and apologize for making the decision to go to Notre Dame," Brown said. "I made that decision based on my life, not football.'' 
One thing is clear, Brown deserves this year's award. No player meant as much to his team as Brown meant to the Irish. He faced double and triple coverages. Teams refused to kick to him after seeing him reel off long returns, one after another. Still, he piled up impressive numbers. 
Even more impressive was the quality of teams he did it against. Of the Irish opponents this season, nine, including Texas A&M, will play in bowl games. Brown wasn't racking up yards against the Colgates of the country. If Syracuse played the schedule that Notre Dame did, it would be on television more. The simple fact is that the Irish played opponents around the country, and the networks put on what the people wanted to see. 
Of course, there may be a simpler reason for the treatment Brown received. McPherson won the Northeast region, which includes New York. Their candidate finished a distant second to Brown. Spell this s-o-u-r g-r-a-p-e-s. They turned what should 
see RELIEF, page 13 

.. 
• 
---~----------------------------------------------------­

