
VOL. XXI, NO. 118 THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 1987 
the independent student newspaper sen·ing ~otre Dame and Saint .\la11's 

Associated Press  tive leader, and added he was  House  spokesman  Marlin  
WASHINGTON -The Senate tentatively sustained President Reagan's veto of an $88 billion highway bill on a 65-35 vote on Wednesday, handing him a tenuous victory in · a high­stakes political showdown with the Democratic majorities of Congress. Senate GOP leader Bob Dole  prepared to switch because an alternative highway bill prepared by the White House would mean less funding for his state than the vetoed measure. "Let's just say I was slightly confused," he said of a series of events on the Senate floor in which he initially voted pres­ent, then returned to the front of the chamber a few moments  Fitzwater said. Later, arriving at the White House, the president declined to answer questions about the Senate showdown. "I don't have any answers now," he said. In the meantime, Vice Pres­ident George Bush and Trans­portation Secretary Elizabeth Dole worked in separate offices  
declared, "We've won fair and square," but after several hours of behind-the-scenes maneuvering, Democrats sought a second vote and ap­peared confident they would prevail. Their hopes for victory hinged on Democratic first­termer Terry Sanford of North Carolina, who initially sup­ported the veto, but then said, "I would vote to override" on a second ballot.  later to change his vote to sus­tain the veto. Sanford's turnabout trig­gered a legislative showdown with Republicans, who delayed a second vote to give the pres­ident and senior aides time to find an offsetting vote. "I'm not convinced we can't find an­other vote on the Republican side," Dole said. Reagan, flying home from Philadelphia, remained aboard Air Force One for about 12  just off the Senate floor, seeking converts to Reagan's cause. "It is a very critical vote for Ronald Reagan," Dole said in a final appeal for support before the initial roll call. "This may determine the strength of this presidency for the next 21 months." The maneuvering only served to heighten the stakes in the politically charged show­down that the GOP sought to  
Sanford said he was satisfied  minutes  after  he  landed  at  turn  into  a  test  of Reagan's  
his first vote had demonstrated  Andrews  Air  Force  Base  to  
the president was still an effec­ make calls to senators, White  see VETO, page 7  

Students present ideas and concerns 
By MICHAEL t:HMIEL "We go around and just get to know each other bet­
Staff Reporter give people a chance to ter." make comments or Following a brief introduc­whatever," said Malloy to a tion, the administrators 
University President-group of about 60 Farley wo­opened the floor tn ques­
elect Father Edward Malloy men. tions. Yesterday's forum stressed his concerns about opened with a question about teaching at the University "Certainly, a lot of the on-campus access for stu­
and fielded questions about same things come up in dents and their cars. 
on-campus access for cars, every meeting, but there's "We're collectively con­residential life, University always something differ­cerned about people getting funding, and student input in ent," Beauchamp said. on campus," Malloy said. University decisions at a "(The forum) is successful "We're trying to keep it as forum held yesterday in in that we get input from our much as possible a 
Farley Hall. students. Also, it gives the pedestrian campus." Malloy and Vice-President­students a chance to meet Student concerns were 
elect Rev. William Beau­us. They learn some things also raised about the quality 
champ began visiting dor­about us, and we're able to of the undergraduate educa­
mitories on the Notre Dame destroy some myths about tion being offered in con­
campus in early February in 'who these people are.' junction with the Univer­
an attempt to meet the stu­Primarily, it's an opportu­
dents and exchange ideas. nity to exchange ideas and see MONK, page 3 
Tower says Reagan failed to use system 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
Sen. John Tower, speaking on national security affairs in a lecture Wednesday night, said the Iran-Contra affair resulted from human error on the part of the President and his ad­visers. 
Tower explained his role on the commission which inves­tigated the Iran-Contra affair. "We at least were able to amass enough in the way of facts to marshal those facts to reduce them into manageable proportions and draw conclu­sions that I think are valid con­clusions, regardless of what the ultimate outcome of the Iran­Contra matter may be," Tower said. 
"Let me point out one thing about this matter," Tower said. "It wasn't so much the system that went wrong as the failure of the President and his subordinates to appropiately utilize the system," he said. 
"It was not our function at all to determine culpability of individuals, but secondly to try to find out what went wrong and make recommendations on the structure and procedures of the National Security Council, the National Security Council staff and the national security adviser to minimize the possi­bility that what happened could happen again," said Tower. 
"Let me hasten to say there is no perfect structure, no per­fect institution that would guarantee against human er­ror and against flawed judgments," Tower said. "As long as people run the system, there are always going to be crises that go unresolved... But I think that by using good judgment and, for the most part by using prudent prac­tices, we can guard against the recurrence of the so-called Iran-Contra affair." said Tower. 
University President-elect Fa­ther Edward Malloy and Vice-President elect Rev. William Beauchamp settled down 
"Another aberrational aspect of (the Iran-Contra af­fair) was that it was a covert· action that went directly con­trary to the published policy of the United States of America and, indeed, the President of the United States of America," said Tower. "Most covert ac­tions are carried off to support an existing policy . . . If you look at the Contra thing, that doesn't necessarily run con-

Sen. John Tower 
trary to public policy, it might run contrary, in some respects, to proscriptions placed on it by the Congress. 
"What we've come up with, I think, is a recommendation that, if this President follows it, and he gives every indica­tion he is going to follow it, ... will be of great value to future presidents," Tower said. 
"In our recommendations, although we did recommend some institutional changes and some institutional adjust­ments, we also recommended that the Congress resist the temptation to legislatively tamper with the system," he said. 
"Most of what we recommen­ded were things that the Pres­ident could do administrative­ly," said Tower. "Ifyou looked at the structure of the National Security Council, you saw that it was a rather horizontal or-
see TOWER, page 7 
The Observer/Brian Mast 
Wednesday night at Farley to speak with students about their campus concerns. See related story at left. 

r----------­
The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987 -page 2 
\ 
•
I 
f 
I ' 
I 
' 
t 
In Brief 
Debate officers were elected Wednesday night for the 1987-88 academic year. Dom Alfaro was elected Pres­ident, Paul Bielski was elected Secretary!rreasurer, and John Failor and Rob Hennig were elected Co-Publicity Directors for the Notre Dame Debate and Speech Council. 
-The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Security Auction originally planned for tomorrow has been postponed until April 23 because of weather. Please disregard the posters on campus that publicize the event for tomorrow. -The Observer 
The Kellogg Institute will sponsor a public lecture with noted scholar Ann Seidman, Professor of Economics, Clark University, today from 4-6 p.m. Seidman is the au­thor of numerous books on the economics of Southern Mrican countries. She also lived and taught at several Mrican universities for several years. The lecture, held in 131 Decio, will be followed by a discussion moderated by Peter Walshe and Mutumbo Mpanya of Notre Dame. 
-The Observer 
Juniors in all majors are invited to attend a presentation by Paul Reynolds of Career and Placement Services called, "Juniors: Planning an Effective Job Search" at 7 p.m. tonight in 127 Nieuwland. -The Observer 
Actress Roberta Nobleman will perform two plays exploring spirituality and women tomorrow in the Regina Hall Chapel. "St. Augustine's Mistress," by Irene Mahoney, begins at 12:15 p.m., and "Julian," by J, Janda begins at 3 p.m. Admission is free. -The Observer 
A pinewood derby will be held tonight as part of Engineers' Week. The race will be at 7:30 p.m. in 217 Cushing. A pizza party will follow at 8 p.m. -The Observer 
Rev. Malusi Mpumlwana of the University of Cape Town will lecture on "South Mrica: The Struggle for Liberation," tonight at 8 at the Center for Social Con­cerns. -The Observer 
French Enthusiasts: There will be a French cheese and film party tonight at the Saint Mary's Club­house. Food will be served at 6:30 p.m., and the film, "Three Men and A Cradle," will follow at 7:30p.m. -The 
\ Observer 
The 1987 CILA Retreat will be April 10-12 at Moreau Seminary. Deadline for registration is Monday April 6. For more information, contact Kris Sanders at 1364 or Mary Pfeil at 1315. -The Observer 
"Renaissance: Man, Nature, and God," a lecture by Charles Rosenberg, will be presented tonight in the Annen berg Auditorium of the Snite Museum at 7:30 
p.m. Students are admitted free. -The Observer 
Weather 
April showers bring May flowers. A well known phrase that never specifies what kind of showers. Today look for snow showers with a high near 35. Clear­ing tonight and cold with a low in the 20s. Prepare to sport the shades on Friday as the sun returns with highs in 

the 30s. 

Design Editor .. .. .. .... .. .. .. . ... Rob Luxem Viewpoint Layout ............... Alice Groner Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lisa Tugman Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck Typesetters ........................... Jose Novas Accent Layout ................. Heather Hypes ........................................... Michael Buc Typists ............................... Esther Ivory News Editor. ................. . .. Cathy Stacy ............................................ Diane Fosco Copy Editor ................... Rachael Jarosh ND Day Editor ................. Jane Kravclk Sports Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen Ad Design ........................ Dave Culligan Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Sara Marley Photographer....................... Brian Mast 
Tile Obtener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Observer is a member of Tile Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Oral Roberts could give God some needed excitement 
The following conversation could have taken place late last year. Only a few "high placed" sourceJ and possibly Oral Roberts know for sure. 
God: "Y'know Gabriel, that Oral Roberts fella sure has been doing a heck of a lot of praying lately. Since the satellite dish went on the fritz, reception hasn't been too good, but I think he says he needs more money for that dentistry college of his." 
Gabriel: "You mean he's got a bunch of Herbie's who 'wannabe a dentist." 
God: "That's right, and unless he gets more donations from the little old ladies in Duluth and retired postal workers from Sioux Falls, it looks like all the Herbies will have to go back to making toys. Sure would be a shame? What do you think we can do about it?" 
Gabriel: "Well Boss, let's have some fun for a change. Ever since that Son of yours came along we haven't been allowed to have fun. All that do unto others stuff that He taught ruined all our fun. Remember the old days; destroying Philistine armies, leveling Sodom and Gham­mora. Now that was fun." 
God: "Maybe you're right. Maybe I have gone the Bobby Knight 'mellow in My old age' route. I'll tell you what Gabe, let's have some fun. Fire up the transporter. I'm gonna go down and have a talk with old Oral." 
A couple of minutes later, in the Tulsa, Okla­homa office of Oral Roberts .... Roberts: "Holy Sh ... mokes. I mean Oh my G ... I mean Wow!!" God: "Alright Oral, calm down, this isn't that big a deal. I do stuff like this all the time." 
Roberts: "O.K. So what do you want with me. I've been good lately. I haven't had an affair with anyone named Jessica in the last seven years, unlike that other guy, and I've cut back on the number of fake healings I do on my show." 
God: "I want you to raise $8 million." 
Roberts: "You want me to raise how much!? Do you know how many times I would have to say 'Halleluiah' and 'Praise the Lord' to raise $8 million! ? " 
God: "Don't worry, I've got confidence in you. You are the best I've ever seen at talking bored and lonely people out of their money.'' Roberts: "Well, I don't know if I can handle it." 
God: "I'm sure you can do it. But Oral, like any good Ginsu knife offer, 'There's more!' You'd better sit down for this part. Oral, I don't know exactly how to say this, but you've got to raise all the money by the beginning of March and if you don't, well then you're, uh, dust,-­

vapor, a ghost, history. You'll be preaching on the big cable station in the sky." Roberts : "Are you saying that you'll kill me if I don't raise the money." 
God: "In a nutshell, Yah." 
Roberts: "Well, how about $4 million and a broken arm." God: "Nope, can't do it." Roberts: ''$6 million and massive internal in­juries?'' 
God: "No way." 
Roberts: "Alright, $7 million and a coma. That's my final offer." God: "Sorry, can't be done. The deal is non­negotiable." 
Roberts: "Well, alright, I guess I have no choice." God: "That's right, you don't. Oh, and one more thing, see what you can do about getting rid of that second 'k' in Bakker's name. It really looks silly. I'll see you later." Roberts: "But wait, wait don't leave. How am I supposed to convince people to give me $8 million dollars? Ohhh. Let's see, maybe if I tell the media I spoke with God and then ...." 
The rest is history. As we all know, Oral raised the $8 million, barely, and God allowed him to continue preaching the gospel on cable 
t.v .. I think the country, the Christian faith, and 
possibly all of humanity are much better off for it. 


CLASS of 1988 
Well, almost therel-Our Senior Yearl Senior year Is full of big events: Disorientation week, Uof MTrip I Party, Senior Class Trip, Senior Formal, the Ski Trip, Senior Month and many morel 
All we need to make these events a reality is your enthusiasm and participation. Unlike getting positions in the real world, our jobs require NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE. We want fresh ideas and new people (or fresh people with new ideas). 
All seniors-to-be should have received 2 forms in the mail, an application for senior council positions (just check and circle whatever looks interesting) and a Senior Trip Choice Form. Please return both of these to your dorm rep by Friday. 
Remember, if you're looking for something else on that resume, working on class events means meeting lots of people and having fun at the same time. 
We have come up with some pretty impressive job titles and are really excited about having you on the team. 
Thanks, Diane, Sean, Amy & Jim 
-~~ ~ ~------~ ~-------------·---~ 
The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987-page 3 

Commander says guerrillas infiltrated base before attack 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR -Guerril­las enlisted in the army and in­filtrated the El Paraiso in­fantry base before the big attack that killed 69 Sal­vadoran soldiers and a U.S. military adviser, the base com­mander said Wednesday. 
The Green Beret U.S. army sergeant killed was the first American serviceman to die in battle in El Salvador's 7-year­old civil war. 
"There had to be someone who infiltrated," Col. Gilberto Rubio, commander of the base, told reporters. 
He said the army had con­crete leads and was investigat­ing the infiltration of the 4th In­fantry Brigade garrison, which 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting Is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we otTer you a special discount. 
~ 
New apartments being 
built through Spring '87 
~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
~ 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
Intercom entrances 
• 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
• 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•caJI for details about 
your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 
was attacked before dawn Tuesday by guerrillas using mortars, rocket-propelled grenades and automatic weap­ons. 
"I won't say the number or names" of the infiltrators, Rubio said. 
Another officer at the base on Tuesday identified one of the dead guerrillas as an in­filtrator. 
"He's a recruit. We don't have his name, but he entered (the army) a short time ago and was wearing shorts from the Panther Battalion," the of­ficer said. The officer refused to be further identified. 
Helicopter-borne troops and infantry soldiers combed the northern mountains Wednes­day for the attackers from the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, an umbrella for five guerrilla organizations fighting the U.S.-backed gov­ernment. 
Fronius was the only Ameri­can at the garrison at the time of the attack, the U.S. embassy said. The other military ad­viser assigned to the base was in the capital. 

Salvadoran soldiers look at the bodies of some of their comrades killed in a guerrilla attack 
Reagan agrees to 'emergency consultations' 
Associated Press dispute over computer chips, 
U.S. officials said Wednesday. 
WASHINGTON-The Reagan administration, while standing A team of Japanese trade fast to its plans for sanctions specialists will arrive in Wash­
on Japanese electronics im­ington on Friday for negotia­ports, has agreed to a Japanese tions with their counterparts in request for "emergency con­the departments of State, Com­sultations" in the intensifying merce and office of U.S. trade 
THENfJTTICitETTIJ !~'!!':!, 

/celandair Direct to Luxembourg from Chicago is only$689 round trip! 
• 
Free express motorcoaches to Germany, Holland and Belgium. 

• 
Only $15 by train to Switzerland and France. Economical Eurailpasses are available . 

• 
Kemwel Rent-A-Cars with no mileage charge start at only $79 per week short term and even lower for long term rentals.* 

• 
Prepaid Hotelpak coupons, start at only $26.00 per night in 19 European Countrie§.** 

• 
Our unrestricted fares are alto super low priced to Paris and Frankfurt. 

• 
We fly from New York, Chicago, Boston, Baltimore/Washington and Orlando. 


JIIW,_ ICELANDAIR ~ 
CALL ICE FOR THE PRICE AT 1-800-223-5500 OR YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. 
F•r• f•cts: Super Apex Fare is valid 611187 thru 917187. 7 day minimum/50 day maximum. Payment 14 days prior to departure. Fares subject to change. Penalty for cancellation. $3 departure tax and $10 U.S. customs/immigration fee. Limited availability, other restrictions may apply. 
• Prices based on rate of exchange 2111/87...Reservations subject to availability. Full refunds with a 14 day pnor cancellation. 
representative, the officials said. 
The semiconductor talks, to get under way in earnest on Monday, will be followed later in the week with meetings in Washington among higher­level trade officials of both na­tions, government spokesmen said. 
However, U.S. officials held out little hope that the dispute over semiconductor pricing practices could be resolved in time to avert the proposed duties on $300 million in Japanese products from taking effect on April 17. 
Commerce Secretary Mal­colm Baldrige, who has said there would be "no last-minute reprieve," will propose the sanctions be slapped on for a three-month "trial period," said Baldrige spokesman B. Jay Cooper. 
Monk 
continuedfrompage 1 
sity's drive towards becoming more research-oriented. 
"I would hate to see Notre Dame become a school where undergraduate education was not well done and prized," Mal­Joy said. "I think we can have both." 
Beauchamp explained that this desire for research will not be "a matter of pulling teach­ers out of the undergraduate areas." 
"Teaching is not a job," Mal­Joy explained. "It's a calling. It's a vocation ... It requires a real investment of one's life. One of the things I'm going to talk a lot about is teaching." 
Malloy and Beauchamp en­couraged student involvement in the community. Malloy added that student involve­ment was important in the renovation of LaFortune. 
"I don't think students realize what potential their in­put can have," Beauchamp said. ''It's important that you elect strong student represen­tatives." 
Malloy also shared a desire to maintain a "flat" organiza­tional structure in the Univer­sity that would incorporate in­put from all areas of the University. Malloy also an­nounced his plans for forming committees on the subjects of residentiality, life commit­ments and responsibilities, and 
whole health in the  use  and  
abuse of alcohol.  
Parts  of  their  first  visit  at  

Zahm Hall were taped for broadcast on CBS's 60 Minutes. 
The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987 -page 4 

Th get ahead in college, it helps if comes with either two built-in 800K you choose abrilliant roommate. Like a drives, or one drive and an internal Macintoslfpersonal computer. And now 20-megabyte hard disk. As well as a there are two models to choose from. choice of two new keyboards. 
The Macintosh Plus, which comes Inside, the SE also has an expan­with one 800Kdisk drive and afull mega-sion slot, so you can add acard that lets byte of memory{expandable to four). you share information over acampus-
And the new Macintosh SE. Which wide network. Or another card that 
lets you run MS-DOS programs. 
Whichever Macintosh you choose, you can use the latest, most advanced software. And that means you'll be able to work faster, better and smarter. 
No two ways about it. 

Thep<Wertobeyourbest 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25, Camp-Math Bid. 219-239-7477 
.c1987Apple Computer.Inc. Appleand/he Apple logo are rr!gisteredlmtietnarltsofApple Computer,inc. Macinlosh isatmdemark ofApple Computer.luc MS DOS isaIT![(is/1!1'!!(//mdemark o{Micmsojl Corp. 
T'T~~l"TTrrfTl"tT'f"'TTTT'~TfT
"····························································~ 

-·---~~ 
The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987-page 5 
Scholastic announces promotions 
to join the news department. David Marcantuono hasSpecial to the Observer 
been selected advertising 
Scholastic, Notre Dame's Catherine Coffey has been manager. 
student magazine, has an­selected business manager. 
nounced its general board Coffey is a junior accounting John Harper has been 
for 1987-88. The new board major from Birmingham, named controller, Amy 
begins with the April 9 issue. Mich. She was previously Weber has been selected 
Kathleen McKernan, a departments editor. production manager, and 
junior English major from Bob White will be copy chief. ·~ 1o 
Albuquerque, N.M., will Allan Lim will resume his 
serve as editor for the 1987-duties as photography 
Patricia Brienza has been 
88 publication year. McKer­manager, Steffanie Keller 
chosen graphics arts 
I ~l .... 
nan formerly served as a has been chosen news editor, manager, and Lawrence 
Scholastic news editor. and Marty Burns has been Pravecek will resume his 
Mark Dillon, a junior named sports editor. ' ~/ .
second year as systems
American studies major APPhoto
manager.
from Bloomfield, N.J., has Sara Harty has been selec­William Stern was awarded custody of his daughter, better knownbeen chosen managing ted student life editor. Next Matthew Bradley will as "Baby M", by a New Jersey court Tuesday. The judge whoeditor. Dillon returned from year's departments editor serve as administration and ruled also said the surrogate contract under which the girl wasa first semester in London will be Mike Farnan. circulation manager. 
born is valid. 
South Bend could be sister city to San Carlos, Nicaragua 
By ANN MARIE DURNING the effects of the war. aid is given by people, not gov­project) provides than through agencies in the Assitant News Editor According to Garcia, the ernment agencies. the opportunity for so many dif­u.s. 
Sister Cities project generates Ney, who became involved as ferent sectors of the commu­When questioned if the needs 
Sonia Garcia, Nicaraguan interest in American cities for a result of his experiences nity to get involved. Groups of the military, perhaps for director of external coopera­the Nicaraguans and helps to living in Nicaragua, explained that would not normally get in­food or clothing, were consid­tion, and Willy Ney, state co­raise funds to provide them how the projects are estab­volved in solidarity, but (get in­ered a priority by the govern­ordinator of the Indiana-San with food, clothing, medicine lished. He said, "First of all we volved in this) because of the ment and financed by the aid Juan sister state project, dis­and education, especially in generate interest through dif­apolitical nature of the proj­for the sister cities, Garcia an­cussed yesterday afternoon the those areas that exhibit the ferent communities' solidarity ect," said Ney. swered yes. She said "the aid possibility of establishing greatest need. groups, anti-intervention Cities can undertake special goes to all people and those are South Bend as a sister city with The projects are founded groups, church groups, and stu­projects depending on the people of Nicaragua, . . . al­San Carlos, Nicaragua to pro­upon the concept of being "a dent groups which have funds they raise. Garcia said though we do not want to take vide "apolitical aid" to offset network of people" because the already been working on the that one project which has had the aid from the sister cities." 
Class of 1988 
•mam • 
... IIU 
IUin 
em..... 
.... 
liiMI 
1: (2 miles from campus,B comer of Edison & Grape) 
'----~--­
Liquor 
1.75 I Silvercrest Gin ... $7.79 
1.75 I Absolute Vodka...$17.99 750 ml Windsor....$4.99 
1.75 I Philadelphia (blend) .... $R99 
Senior Portrait 
Sign-Ups 
Dining Halls 
4:30-6:30 pm 
Monday, March 30 Thursday,April 2 
r .. r•r r .. r• .. r r• •r 
HOURS: 
M.-TH. 9 am-10 pm Fri. & Sat. 9 am-11 pm 
Wine 
4 pak 
Bartles & Jaymes ............. $2t99 750 ml M & R Asti ................... $7.99 
41 Carlo Rossi .................. $4.99 
Spring Break Special 
TAN-~ 
sun tmnrg satn 
Booth 
JMS PLAZA $2.50 each visit 4609 GRAPE RD. 
6 visits for $13.95 MISHAWAKA, IN 
Bed Combo 
$5.00 each visit 3 Bed I 3 Booth 6 visits for $27.00 $19.95 
2n-1o2s 
Welcome home 


Ironwood liquors 
1725 North IronwoOd South Bend 272·71.U 
Nicarguan issue." a lot of support is a construc­
Members of the Graduate As­tion project that involves Garica said groups in Con­sociation for Latin America people coming to Nicaragua to cord, Mass. and Gainsborough, made up nearly all of the nine build homes for the farmers of Fla. which are interested in es­person audience in LaFortune the Rio de San Juan region tablishing a sister city projects yesterday afternoon. where 90 percent of the in­have met with resistance from Ney and Garcia have also ad­habitants have been displaced. groups which suppport the Con­dressed other South Bend tras. groups which have been consid­Garcia said that the U.S. em­The number of sister cities in ering becoming a sister city to bargo on aid has presented dif­the U.S. has grown from 12 to San Carlos, which is located in ficulties, especially in getting 67 in the past year. In total what Ney said was "probably spare parts for U.S. machin­there are 213 sister cities based the most underdeveloped area ery. She also said that it was in France, Spain, Italy, West in all of Nicaragua." often easier to route the aid Germany and other cities as 
"(The :Sister Cities through Vancouver, Canada well, said Garcia. 
The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987 -page 6 


Fruits & Vegetables 
~h0~rr~. ~i~. ~i.l~i.~~...........79~ 
California Peaches, light 59~ syrup, lfregutar cuts. 29 oz .... . 
~~~d~~~~. ~~~-~~.~~-........39~ 
~u~:.~~· ~ih~ ~~~~~: :r~~~~~~r.....69~ Cut Asparagus 79~ grade A fancy. t4 5 oz.......... . 
~..U:sh:~~::. 4 oz...........39~ Cut Green Beans 
25"' 
grade A fancy. t5.5 oz. . . . . . . . . . . ... Whole Kernel or Cream 
25"' 
Style Corn, grade Afancy. t6.5 oz. .,.. ~r~d~e1 f~~~-st6 oz. •.•........25~ ~~~~~ -~~-~-~~~~-..........39~ ~~::'e.~.~~-~-~~~~-.........49~ 
~i::d. ~~~~~~~-~~~ ..........29~ ~~!~~~~ncy.t5oz ............39~ Tomato Paste 25~ 
grade A fancy, 6 oz. .......... .. 
Soup 
~hd~~e~ -~~~~~-~ -~~~~ .....25~ ~~~a:, 1~~ ~zus_~~~-~~-......25~ ~h;!i ~i~~.~~.~~-~ ...........59~ 
,..Fruit Cocktail 
choice quality, ""' heavy syrup [;t;G:ID ~ 16 oz. .
I 
~~~~! 49~ 
Baking Supplies 


3207 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN Mon-Thiii'S: 9am-7pm Friday: 9am-8pm Saturday: 9am-6pm Closed Sunday 
Jennie-0 Frozen Prebasted 
Whole 
i
Turkey 
10-121bs. .' ' avg. wt. _· __ 
~~~!6~e~b. 
Juices & Drinks 
~~~eie~::. 2t:,"~~-~-~~~~..99~ 
100% Pure Grapefruit 
99"' 
Juice, unsweetened. 46 oz. . . . .,.. 
Tomato Juice ...........59"'
grade A fancy. 46 oz. ... 
:.~f~~ ~~!~~4 oz............99~ 
Soda Pop
assorted flavors. 12 oz. cans ••.•• 
2 Pound All-Purpose Coffee 
premium blend 

Prepared Foods 
J5~ 

Bread & Pastry 

Pre-Creamed Shortening 42 oz. 
Iii 79~ 
Flours lb. bag. 
~ 49~ 
Household Items Paper Towels 39~ 
budget buy. JUmbo roll ......... . 
:~~~~~.......................59~ ~:~t ~~~~~~~~t. ~~-r....... .49~ ~:5c~~l ~~-~~~ .............. .49~ 
Diapers 
S,.t 99 
medium elasttc leg. 36 cl. . . . . . . . . 't 
Yams 
grade A fancy ' . 
16 oz. 
e.. 

Dairy & Lunch Meat 

Frozen Foods 
Totinos Pizza, sausage or 89~ combmation. t1.2 oz. . ........ . 
Frozen 100% Pure Orange 69~ Juice, grade A fancy. 12 oz. . ... . 
~~~;;~~uJ~~r-~~-~~-~~~~ ...s399 
~;~~~2h!zF.i~.~ -~~~~~~ ........s249 
~;~,"c.~~-~.i~-~ .~~~-l~t-~ ....••... SJ99 Str!lwberry Swirl or Fudge ~99 Sw1rl Ice Cream, 5qt. pail ... -~ 
Produce 
~~!~~~o~~t~t-~~.~ .............. SJI9 
California Sunkist Navel SJ-19 Oranges, large size. 4 lb........ 
~~d -~~~~~.i~~~--~~-~~~~ ........ S)l9 
Indian River Red 
J9"' 
Grapefruit, large SIZe. each . . . .,.. 
We welcome cash and food stamps. No checks please. 
929N.Eddy 
South Bend, IN 
Mon-Thiii'S: 10am-7pm 
Friday: 9am-8pm 
Saturday: 9am-6pm 
Closed Sunday 
The Stoek-U Store:
©1987 ALDIInc. 

Thursday, April 2, 1987-page 7 
The Observer 
South Shore collision 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A south Shore Line commuter train hit an idle freight car Wednesday near the Illinois-Indiana border, leaving at least one man dead and in­juring another, authorities said. 
One man was dead on arrival at Ingalls Memorial Hospital in south suburban Harvey, said nursing coordinator Roseann Rooney. 
She said she did not know whether he was a passenger or member of the train crew. His name was being withheld pend­ing notification of relatives, Ms. Rooney said. 
An injured passenger was being treated at St. Margaret's Hospital in Hammond, Ind., near the accident site at subur­ban Burnham, said spokes­woman Pat Wisz. 
Frank Roach, 27, of Indiana, was "undergoing X-rays and 

Tower: Immunity for key figures in scandal 
Associated Press for-hostages deal and the diver­
sion of profits to the 
SOUTH BEND-The congres-Nicaraguan Contras, said in­sional select committees inves-formation is more important tigating the Iran-Contra affair than prosecution. will likely grant immunity to Tower appeared at the Uni­key figures, despite a versity of Notre Dame to lec­"prosecutorial mentality," the ture on the role of the National chairman of the Tower Com-Security Agency in a free sod-mission said Wednesday. ety. 
Former Texas senator John Former National Security Tower, who chaired the com-Adviser John Poindexter and mission that investigated the White House aide Lt. Col. Reagan administration arms-Oliver North, who allegedly di-
Happy 21st Birthday 
"DOC" of Dillon Hall 
Love, 
Your Family and Friends in New York 


looks to be OK," she said .. She said she did not know his hometown. 
The five-car commuter train, heading into Chicago from Gary, Ind., struck a freight car that was on a side track but protruding onto the passenger track, said Jim Shepard, a vice president for passenger ser­vice for South Shore Line in Michigan City, Ind. 
The accident occurred about 5 p.m., Shepard said. 
He said he didn't know how many people were aboard, but that there usually are 20 to 40 passengers and a crew of five on the train. 
The freight car, a coal hop­per, derailed, Shepard said, but the commuter train didn't 
leave the tracks and the rail­road expected to resume ser­Four Oral Roberts University students walk past the tower invice on the line later W ednes­which Oral Roberts ended his 10-day vigil. Roberts succeeded in day. 
raising the $8 million dollars he said God instructed him to raise. 
rected the operation, did not testify before -the commission, which had no power to sub­poena witnesses or grant im~ munity. 
Tower said congressional in­vestigators will use their au­thority to shield Poindexter and North. "I think ultimately Congress will do it," he said. "And perhaps the important thing is more to find out what happened than to see that somebody's punished. 
--Ihe-O.b.se~~er-­
-------A.-=:Y~ . --­
The Observer II accepting appUcatlona for the following paid polllloni 
Inventory and Supply Manager 
Qaestlou should be directed to Melissa Warnke at tbe Observer offtee(139-5313). Applkatlou an due Monday, April 6 by 6pm. 
"Obviously, the object of a prosecutorial group is to make a determination of whether a criminal indictment should issue, and they have that prosecutorial mentality,'' he said. 
"But in terms of the national interest, which is more impor­tant?" he asked. "Learning what happened, or seeing that maybe after two or three years of dragging this out somebody goes to jail." 
ND AVE APTS Now Running for Fall 

Completely Furnished, Balconies, 
Off Street Parking, Laundry, On Site Management & Maintenance. All Deluxe Features. Ask about our Special Summer Rates 
Office at 820 NO AVE!• 234-6647 


mented, that • he ... could follow up on one-way opera­tions and make sure that the President's wishes were being followed," he said. 
Veto 
continued from page 1 
prestige after months of buffet­ting by the Iran-Contra affair. 
On the initial vote, 52 Democrats and 13 Republicans voted to override Reagan. There were 33 Republicans and Sanford voting to sustain the veto. Byrd switched his vote at the last minute to sustain the veto in a parliamentary ma­rleuver that enabled him to demand the second roll call. 
Pope calls Chile to work for peace and reconciliation 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO-Pope John Paul 
II called for the victory of 
peace over violence as he ar­
rived Wednesday in this nation 
he has called "dictatorial." 
Police used tear gas to disperse 
crowds pushing toward him. 
President Augusto Pinochet, 
the leader of Chile's right-wing 
military regime, met the pon­
tiff at the airport and told him 
the country is a victim of a 
foreign campaign of "hate, lies 
and the culture of death." 
"God bless Chile," the pope 
said, declaring he wanted Chile 
to work for "forgiveness and 
reconciliation, with the victory 
of good over evil, peace over 
violence." 
Later the police used tear gas 
to disperse crowds trying to 
push pastgovernment cordons. 
Policemen ripped away a sign 
held by a young man that asked 
in Spanish, "Holy father, what 
is freedom like?" 
The pope spoke in Spanish 
after he descended from the 
Vatican airplane, kissed the 
ground and met Pinochet at the 
edge of a red carpet. Pinochet's 
wife, Lucia, bowed to the pon­
tiff. But Pinochet, in a white 
dress military uniform, 
remained erect as he saluted 
and shook his hand. 
Aboard the Vatican plane on 
Tuesday, the pontiff had called 
Chile a "dictatorial" country 
with serious human rights 
problems and said that his pas­
toral mission includes the 
defense of human rights.­
Tower 
continued from page 1 
ganization, with about 55 action officers reporting to one man," he said. 
"This is the kind of organiza­tion structure that is ideally suited for some energetic self­starter to go into business for himself and take initiatives of his own, be they authorized or unauthorized," said Tower. "So we recommended more vertical lines of control and re­
"ieVV~_O_i_n_t______________
T-hursd-ay,A-pril-2,198-7-pa-ges 
Goal and effectiveness should back social action 
A recent Viewpoint article by Gregory Maggetti (March 10) ex­pressed deep regret over the apparent demise of social responsibility on col­lege campuses. He blames it on "the contemporary wave of excessive in­dividualism, narrowness of vision and short-sightedness which has swept over the nation." 
Chris Kennedy 
guest column 
This view, however, only addresses half of the problem. The individualism and short-sightedness can be viewed as being a result of the problems in the current system of social responsibility as their cause. There seem to be three main deficiencies present in the con­cept of social responsibility: Realiza­tion of differences in culture and his­tory, concentration on single important issues, and effectiveness of proposed solutions. These problems did not seem to be present during the heyday of the sixties and, moreover, do not seem to be addressed by those wishing to promote social responsibility. 
'There seems to be little discussion among groups as to the effectiveness and possible benefits of a solution as opposed to possible long-term difficulties.' 
The problem of differences in culture and history seems to be the most subtle. This is a relatively new concept be­cause during the Civil Rights activism all reforms were directed internally to the United States. A system was already in place to effect change and all persons involved had a long history of the ideals of basic human rights. If the United States is compared to South Africa, one can easily see that the rac­ism that is present in South Africa comes from a different source. The anti-apartheid forces generally fail to acknowledge the fact that the Afrikaners have fought the British for approximately 200 years to gain self-
Doonesbury 
rule and that the two major historical events in South Africa, the Great Migration and the Boer War, were manifestations of this struggle for in­dependence. Once a person realizes that the Afrikaners have struggled for 200 years for self rule it is easier to understand why they do not want to relinquish it after 40 years. This struggle for independence and self-rule does not necessarily make what the current government is doing morally just, but it does make it more difficult to condemn the Afrikaners as the God­less devils the anti-apartheid people would want you to believe. The problem of different cultures and histories can also be seen in the Middle East and Central America. 
The problem of failure to concentrate on a single important issue can be seen on two levels. 
The first level is evident when you consider the vast list of issues that have raised strong social concern over the past five years. This list includes: nu­clear freeze, nuclear energy, El Sal­vador, Nicaragua, Chile, South Africa, Ethiopia, the homeless, abortion, ROTC on campus, women in the Church, the Philippines, unemploy­ment, Poland, depletion of the ozone layer, the greenhouse effect, acid rain, depletion of the rain forests, the family farmer, and neo-nazi white supremists. 
The second level comes when one begins to ask questions concerning the relative importance of each issue. To try to give the reader a feel for this problem I have listed some of the ques­tions that have bothered me in the past: 
Why is the oppression of 20 million blacks by five million whites in South Africa the leading social concern of the day, when the oppression of four million Palastinians by two million Jews is con­sidered protection of a homeland? 
Why is the killing of less than 10 thousand people, primarily rioters, in South Africa considered a crime against humanity, when the systematic torture and execution of more than 200 thousand people in Uganda over the last five years barely merits any mention? 
Why is the government of El Salvador expected to offer full guarantees of rights and enact reforms to cure all the ills of the country despite the fact that they are fighting a civil war, when the Sandinista government in Nicaragua is never questioned in the denial of rights exactly because it is fighting a civil war? Of course the right wing ac­tivitists feel just the opposite. 
Is it better for the mentally ill of this country to be homeless in the streets or in the institutions which, despite all tries at reform, have changed little from when they were protested against in the early seventies which prompted the release of thousands of people who are now homeless? 
These are a few questions that I feel must be answered before I can lend my full support to any one cause. 
The biggest problem seems to be the problem of presenting an effective so­lution to the problems we face. This is a demand today because many people feel that social reforms simply don't work. Again this problem has two main aspects. 
The first part of this problem is the realization that the social reforms of the sixties did not do all that they had promised. Affirmative action has not led to a large scale decrease in minority unemployment. Government sub­sidized housing projects have become havens for crime and symbols of urban decay. Welfare programs are seen as having encouraged a generation of unwed teen mothers. The rise of alter­nate lifestyles seems to coincide with an epidemic of sexually transmitted diseases. Last but not least, the current college students sees that the activists of the sixties have become the es­tablishment of today. Admittedly, there is little the organizers of current social issues can do to correct the mistakes of the past, but this does lead us to the final part of the problem that can be corrected. 
Garry Trudeau 
The above problems would tend to make anyone leery of supporting a cause due to possible long term side effects of the solution. There seems to be little discussion among groups as to the effectiveness and possible benefits of a solution as opposed to possible long­term difficulties. The anti-apartheid people are generally unwilling to dis­cuss the possible effectiveness of eco­nomic sanction. There seems to be little concern as to the future of Central America if the United States were to stop funding all groups with shaky human rights records. There seems to be little concern as to the means of producing energy in the future if nu­clear energy is bad because of disposal problems, coal and petrolium based sources are bad due to acid rain, hydroelectric, solar, and wind power are bad bacause of environmental im­pact on the large scale that they need to produce energy. 
The answer to the social reform prob­lem does not seem to be in a mystical move from excessive individualism to love, peace, and hippie beads, but rather a concerted effort on the part of those advocating causes. This effort should include carefully choosing a tar­get, having complete justification why their cause is most urgent, and offering a reasonable, feasible solution that can solve the specific problem without in­viting additional, more serious, prob­lems. 
Chris Kennedy is.a graduate student in Physics. 

Quote of the day 
"In marriage, being the right person is as important as fin­ding the right person." 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. BoxQ, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark McLaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ..........................Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November3, 1966 
Thursday, ~pril 2, 1987 -page 9 




-
ee' 
I 
KI!.RRII!. WAONI!.R the required classes for an report serves both the advisors features writer American studies m~or. and Interns by detailing more Before being selected for a fully the practical benefits of n an error! to provide an position, students must the whole program. exciting. profltable way to take prerequisite courses which The publishing Internship learn, Notre Dame's American provide at least a brief back­has been especially successful. studies department offers In­ground for their Internships. Featured this semester Is work ternships In broadcasting. his­Taking the necessary courses, performed through Notre Dame torical research, newspaper though. does not Insure place­Magazine. Although the course reporting. and publishing. The ment In a position. An Instruc­outline directly states that posi­unpaid student Interns gain tor must conduct a ·~ob Inter­tions are only open to Ameri­practical work experience under view" with the candidate which can studies majors, an English the supervision of profes­usually Involves reviewing a major was selected last semes­sionals. resume that summarizes com­ter because of a lack of Ameri­
Internships In publishing are pleted courses and experience can studies applicants. 
available with Notre Dame Mag­In the pertinent field. Actual The public relations Intern­azine, public relations positions sit-down Interviews may also be ship Is not only offered by are held with organizations necessary If there Is substantial Notre Dame but also by Saint such as Friends of the Library competition; however, this Is Mary's. Since Saint Mary's does and Notre Dame's Offlce of not always the case. The selec­not offer an American studl_es Sports Information, and com­tion process designed by the major, Its Intern Is usually a munity service may be per­American studies department communications or English 
formed with with area commis­serves both to find the most m~or. The responsibilities of sions. Interns may also do qualified candidates and also this position include preparing 
historical research for local to place them according to press releases, an Informa­historical societies, write for their credentials In compatible tional source that notifies local publications such as the South positions. news organizations of current Bend Tribune, and study Finally, during the semester events at Saint Mary's, writing broadcasting with WNDU-TV. the Intern must Inform both for the Courier, an alumni Each semester one student the overseeing faculty member magazine, and preparing the works In each of these six as well as the "employer" of Saint Mary's College Report 
reas. The student Intern the Internship as to exactly which helps the academic de­
evotes entire days to his or what has been acompllshed, partments to produce their pro­
er work In addition to taking learned, and Improved. The grams. 

The American studies broad­casting internship has been equally successful. All facets of news--construction of stories, reporting. sales, creative ser­vices and telecommunications-­are available to the interns, allowing them to significantly Improve these skills. Creative services Is an area which ln­vovles the interface between production and sales depart­ments of the WNDU-TV station. Both television and radio reporting are also Involved this semester. The American studies department selects an Intern for the program, but Associate Professor Harry Kevorkian, one of this Intern­ship's overseers, said that there are also other majors represented. Students with tele­communications backgrounds are particularly common. 
Various Interns and advisors report an overall positive feeling about the program. Ad­vantages range from career preparation, which benefits the student Interns, to better quality finished products In the radio stations, magazines, and community services them­selves. Therefore, both man­agement and staff profit. Walt Collins, editor of Notre Dame Magazine, expressed enthusi­asm, "(The Interns) are great; we love them!" he said. 
According to Collins, the magazine has been Involved with the American studies In­ternship program for about three years. One student Is selected each semester for the publishing internship and may contribute to the quality of the magazine. For example, Interns act as "fact checkers"; that Is, they research any dubious in­formation in a story. "Terrible errors In print" are thus avoided. The Interns also per­form "leg work" which entails seeking out information through formal and Informal Interviews. Fact checking and legwork are only part of the writing process. The whole process becomes more familiar to students during their direct involvement. Some interns acu­tally do write for the publica­tion, but rather than contribute In such a specltlc manner, they are encouraged to participate in all stages of the publication process, Including graphics and layout. 
Senior John McGinnis, a former magazine Intern, was involved with "all aspects of magazine production, from editorial conception to print­Ing." He was thus allowed a "greater insight Into (his) per­sonal as well as professional 
needs and goals." Both Collins and McGinnis agree that the magazine Is a better publica­
tion with the Internship pro­gram. Furthermore, McGinnis profited In that now ·he is more directed In his plans to become a professional. His goal Is to get a degree In journalism and then a job. McGinnis comments that the academic side of the Internship wasn't as Important as the "look-see" aspect of his education. 
All facets of news-­construction of stories, reporting, sales, creative services--are available to interns. 
Regarding the WNDU-TV In­ternship, Kevorkian said that there are two key benetlts. First. for those students who are sure of their career plans, the broadcasting Internship prepares them for a career while making them more knowledgable In their Intended fields. Second, for those who are unsure of their career pur­suits, changes can be made In areas of concentration. 
Professor Donald Costello, chairman of the American studies department, favors the program to the extent that It benefits department majors. "American studies organizes the program and works hard to accurately select students who are put through a professional organization," Costello says. When non-majors enter the scene problems may arise. Ac­cording to Costello, student Interns gain credit for work done outside of the classroom, so the written reports that are submitted must be carefully evaluated. He says that this task becomes much harder when non-majors are con­cerned. Consequently, Costello prefers to maintain the pro­gram exclusively through his department which, he feels. would Increase benetlts for the students. 
The advisers are pleased with the design of the Internship program. As long as the pres­ent opportunities remain, stu­dents will continue to benefit from a valuable and unique learning experience. 
Campus Band Publicity 
-
If you are a member of a campus band and wish to 
appearJor free In The Observer, call Kendra Morrill at 283-3693 or bring the band's name and schedule to The Observer office. , 
r-----------------­
The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987 -page 10 
.­
Sports Briefs 
A Dancin' Irish organizational meeting will be held tonight at 7 at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women are invited. Information concerning clinics and tryouts for the 1987-88 season, which will be held Apri112 through Apri115, will be given. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball referees will have an organizational meeting tonight 7 at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone interested in officiating is encouraged to attend. For more information or to sign up before the meeting, contact Warren Berry at 283-1206. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball captains' 
meeting will be held tonight, at 6:45 at the Library 
Auditorium. -The Observer 
Team rosters for the An Tostal ultimate frisbee tournament are due Friday between 3 to 5 p.m. at the An Tostal office on the second floor of LaFortune. For more information contact Pat Dunne at 283-1562. -The Observer 
The OC lacrosse team will play Sunday at 9 p.m. at Cartier field. -The Observer 
David Rivers continued his recuperation Wednesday from abdominal surgery after doctors approved his trans­fer to the university infirmary. Rivers entered the infir­mary Tuesday, five days after surgeons removed scar tissue that was blocking a section of bowel. -Associated Press. 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 
Pacers grab first playoff spot with win 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Rookie Chuck Person had 19 points and 10 rebounds to lead five Pacers scoring in double figures as In­diana clinched a playoff spot for the first time since 1981 with a 99-94 NBA victory over Chicago Wednesday night. 
The Pacers, who clinched the playoff spot when Cleveland lost 108-99 to Philadelphia Wed­nesday night, also moved one game past Washington for the sixth playoff spot in the Eas­tern Division by winning their sixth straight. 
n.ObMnw Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 1be ObMnw Saint Maly's office, located on the third floor of H-ugar Collge Center, accepts clasalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds 
characters per day. 
NOTICES  Lost one gray daily planner wtl It my life Is unplanned and chaotic lost" sometime Friday. Please call Dan at 1721.  RIDE NEEDED To Toledo, Ohio on 400 and return 4{)5. Will pay $. Call John 3559  JUNIORS, JUNIORS. JUNIORS: "PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE JOB SEARCH" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND  sponsored by SAB NazzNazzNazzNazzNazz  LARGEST seiiM:tion of CliftMonarch Notas in Michlanal Bu)I'Seii-Hextibooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342  
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406  Lost one BA·II Texas lnstrmnts Calcula· tor guide book approx. one month ago. If found call Dan at 1721.  RIDER WANTED:Headlng to New York 4116.Leave message 277·9870.  PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WELCOME.  competition competition competition competition  HOT ICE is coming... SEE ITII  
LOST: PAIR OF GRAY WOOL GLOVES  FOR SALE: ONE ROUND TRIP FLIGHT  
PRQ-TYPE Quality work, word proce..lng eveltabtttty, nsasoneble $. 277-5833. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Wordproceulng 2n-a1a1 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 UNIVERSITY RESUME Prote..lonel Reeumee Student Retee Near the Malt 272-e338 PAT MAHER FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESIDENT PAT MAHER FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESIDENT PAT MAHER FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESI· DENT VOTE FRIDAYtttt  IN UBRARY 111111 Hfound, pleue call 3851 FOUND: PAIR OF GIRL'SWOMEN'S GLASSES THEY ARE PINK CALL 3651 IF YOU LOST THEM THEY WERE FOUND ON THE QUAD ABOUT 3 WEEKS AGO FOUND: BROWN PLASTIC RIMMED GLASSES ON WEDNESDAY, 411 AROUND 3:00 BY MORRISEY & LYONS. TURNED IN TO LAFORTUNE LOST & FOUND. Thirty dollars cash, a bottle of Obsession perfume, a bottle of Perry Ellis perfume, a canon camera, and make-up "LOST" from a 0402Campus View apartment Friday night. Now, we are just a little Irritated that we give you a place to party and then you rip us off. You know who you are and you know where these things belong. We know you can sneak our things back because you've already snuck them out. If we see our posses· slons again there will be no questions asked and maybe we will think it is safe to have another party.  FOR SALE Roundtrip ticket to Mobile for Easter, leave Fri. 4117, return Mon. 420. If Inter· eeted call 289-3161. Rd Trp PLANE TIX S.BEND-DC 4115­420 CALL MARY x3781 VIC 1525 Graphic Printer, Like new. Call Dick-232·7116, or Dorothy after 3 pm. By owner ·beautiful 2-story, 3·bdrrn. home with den, 2 frplcs on E. Angela across from NO golf course. Write: CFI, P.O. Box 461, Notre Dame, IN 46556 for more Info. Please include telephone number. MACINTOSH and printer for sale. Call Erin 272-2357 512K MAC 2 DIS­I(.f>RINTER-SOFTWARE BEST OFFEFV  Greg,Smile. Somet:xxJy in Marywood Loves You. Kelli This weekend. The DRUIDS. Stonehenge. Ceremonies. The arrival of Spring. Sacrifice. The coming of An Tostal. Be there ... KELLOGG INSTITUTE APARTHEID LECTURE 4:00-8:00 PM TODAY IN 131 DEClO ANNE SEIDMAN WITH PETER WALSHE AND MUTUMBO MPANYA just 362 days left until CIRCUS LUNCH Ill  PAT MAHER PERRY JIMINEZ CHIP BACCIOCCO JOE JANSEN VOTE FRIDAY FOR FINANCE CLUB OFFI­CERSIIIII FINANCE CLUB MEMBERS-Do you want effective leadership, cheaper activ· ities, and wilder parties?? Then please vote for the ticket MAHER-JIMINEZ· BACCIOCCO-JANSEN on Fridayll TO AND FROM MARQUETTE THIS WEEKEND WILL HELP WITH EXPENSES. CALL DEBBIE 284·5411 RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO VIR· GINIA APRIL 10.12. KATHY 284-4453 ASAP U.M.O.C.  FROM O'HARE TO COL. SPRINGS. CHEAP. CALL TOM £3830. Need ride to Indiana Univers~ · Bloomington weekend of Apr. 10. Call Miriam at 2687. EASTER is right around the corner and so is the COUNTRY HARVESTER. See what Easter Goodies have arrived! Our shop is conveniently located in the base­ment of Lafortune. Open: Mon-Fri 11 :30· 6:30 and Saturdays 12·5 Ken. I saw you at St. Mary's library, and I liked your note. Hopa we can get to­gether soon. Suckles Held ride to PENN ST. for Easter Call JIM 1057 TIME LOVES A HERO, AND HISTORY LOVES A BARBECUE. STAY TUNED FOR DETAILS.  
CALL JOE x1819  
FREE Trial Size O'Henry candy Bars and  Lost: setof keys on Stepan Basketball  ............,..................................................  U.M.O.C.  FIESTA FIESTA FIESTA  
Sweepstakes for big winnings Stop In the Westpoint Rm. In the LaFortune Center, April2-3. \ LOST/FOUND I LOST: One pearl earring somewhere in or between Lyons and LaFortune the first week of March. If you found " could you please call P.J. at x3023 or x2999. Thanks. Lost -Maroon, National Gallery POSTER  Courts, Tuesday afternoon. Dorm Key marked "827." Please call Brian at 1179 lllound. LOST: Gray and Blue Nike jacket on Lyons Basketball Courts sometime be· tween Saturday morning and Sunday. II found, please contact Eric at 1695. Reward offered. FOUND: Set of keys on car-dealer type key ring. Found Saturday on the Lyons Courts. Call Eric at 1695 to claim. FOUND One gold bracelet at the Soph· omore Cottllllon. To claim, call the Soph­ TICKETS WANTED! 4 tlx for Nell Diamond concert on April 29 Desperate parents will payl Call Tony R1463 WANTED I 1 GRADUATION TICKET DESPERATE! Call Tony 11483  Happy 19th Birthday KATY KIRKPATRICK the great analyser and great friend THIS BUD'S FOR YOUIII your fellow blue nuns, Jennifer and Lisa p.s. Oscar Romero discussion group will be held on Friday Honey, The last six months have been greatl You are the bestl  U.M.O.C. U.M.O.C. U.M.O.C. U.M.O.C. IS COMING... HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY NIKKI ·YOU LAD GODDESSII MAUREEN DESPERATELY SEEKING a ride to IU -Bloomington this weekend, APR 3-P5. PLEASE CALL Nikki at 3785 if you are going.  FIESTA FIESTA FIESTA FIESTA FIESTA FIESTA CIL.AMexico Project Fiesta Sat., April 4 All you can eat tacos at the Center for Social Concerns 6:00·1 0:00 p.m. $3 HELLO, K-TOWN Life In the field sure was interesting. Sorry for waking you. Pleasa send cookies Hello, Amanda/  
TUBE with Utrillo print Inside. Left be­tween Grace and the Eeet Gate Security house on the Friday before break. Great santimental value. Call Ann 2595 HELPI I LOST MY BOOKBAG IN THE BOOKSTORE. I REALLY NEED THE GLASSES THA'r WERE IN THERE. CALL ERIC REINKOBER £3528.  omore class office at 239-5225 or Theresa at 4027. FOR RENT 6 bedroom 4-6 students $40G500 & utilities. Security system 234 6688  NEIL DIAMOMD TIX YOU WANT 'EM, I GOT 'EM FLOOR & LOWER ARENA CALL NEIL AT 283·3022 PERSONALS  I will love you foreverll Love, Mac T 0 N I G H T II Party with THE BOTTOM LINE at DUKE's BISTRO II TO"NIGHTII  Happy Birthday, Sean Matt B. Steve P. S O'B SCHNAUSSIII Down with Clrous Lunchl MOO MAMAS from HELL UNITE for CHOCOLATE LUNCHII  THE WETTERICK FILES Hired to put an end to -1 Iller lhefll In the Alumni-Dillon .,., I quickly -tipped oft to Wetterlck end Beckley, two well-known SMC .-rty trlmpe. Sulpacl Baclday epllt up with euepect Wltlrlck. Beckley diUIJI*red. Wet· trick went etretght for the bier Time puud. Becktay returned. They  
LOST: TWO GOLD CHAINS IN RM219  MAGLICIC AND BIRMINGHAM 1111 GO  heedld for the door. Jull before t loll  
OF ROCKNE WED. MARCH 11 BEFORE BREAK GOLD TEDDYBEAR PENDENT ON ONE. PLEASE HELP. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. KATHY WALSH  SUM STOR:all belonings(lncl fur)saf..Secure Bill M.2327416 SHARE LARGE HOUSE WITH NO  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  THURSDAY NIGHT TH:.JRSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT  WITH IT KATHLN AND KB BREEN-PHILLIPS HALL PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRES.  them, t heard,"hey Uz, you've got dried milk on your chlnl" Funny... ! didn't -arry milk baing UIYed•..  
109 2699.  GRAD THIS  SUMMER.  $112  MO.  ¢  ANGIE B. FROM MYSTERY LOOKING  
Lost: A blue Totes umbrella on 3'.26 at  UTIL. 269-8792, PAUL.  1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or leeu a car. 23&-2200. Finane·  Party with  VOTE VOTE VOTE VOTE TODAY 111111 MAGLICIC AND BIRMINGHAM··BP  FORWARD TO THIS WEEKEND. I HAVE CHANGED MY MIND. SEE YOU  
the post office at approximately 10:45  FURNISHED  HOMES  FOR  NEXT  lng available lor ell US lltlltea.  THEBOTTOMLINE  PRES AND VICE-PRES ENDORSED BY  O.C. XXX 000 XXX 000  
a.m. If found, please call Tim at x4073.  SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683·  THE POPE HIMSELF  
LOST:LEVI'S JEAN  JACKET,  INSIDE  8889  WVFI·AM 84 GIVEAWAYS! WVFI-AM 84 GIVEAWAYS!  Appearing at DUKE's BISTRO Ill  SINK­ TO THE REAL JILL: Yet another rain checkll  
LABEL "JOHNS. TULLY", VERY WORN IN AND FADED. LOST AT CAMPUS VIEW FRIDAY NIGHT MAYBE? THIS WAS GIVEN TO ME BY MY BEST FRIEND, SO PLEASE CALL KATY £1319 IF FOUND.THANKS.  WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LANIYNATER SPORTS  HUEY LEWIS AND THE NEWS TIX, PIZ· ZA, TANNING SALON VISITS, HAIR· CUTS, DINNERS FOR TWO AT LOCAL RESTAURANTS, CAKES AND PIES, AND MOREll Ill TUNE IN TO WVFI-AM 84 FOR GIVEAWAYS  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT '  CHEERS TO MUSCLE· CRAMPS 1111 LOVE YA SUBSTRATE THE GREAT CHARADE Friday Night-Charades 101 First syllable sounds like water; second syllable sounds like condensation. What  FROM THE REAL JACK 80 PEEP, Have you heard? Someone Ia lmpereonlllng Jllttl BOY BLUE  
LOST Giris gold ID bracelet at Senior Formal In Chicago. ~ found please call Susan Barone at 4520.  PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914  Are you going to be hare lor  Action sequence from Thunderdraln: M Is under siege ... All M/-6 agents or· dared to return to London. Can Bond  word Is she doing? Oh, h/11. Aunts, Uncles, the mailman, your Great Aunt Minnie. Your whole team Is a liability.  It is truel Mike Switek and Jeanne Heller  
381-4224  SUMMER SCHOOL???  enter the Drain wffh Maud Adams and  Difflcutt  new  words:  fubcold,  anfllp,  on their last day in office proclaimed April  
LOST: LEVIS JEANS JACKET  face Mr. Row? Where Ia B. David Lln­ snover, anaround.  2·9  ND-SMC George Peppard Week.  
My Levis jeans jacket dlseppeared from 2nd floor Lewis during a party on Sal night. In the last two years I've worn that jacket to 10 countries and washed njust three times. The accumulated dirt on It has a great deal of sentimental value. A laundry tag sewn on the Inside beck of  Going to WI (Madison, Milwaukee, anywhere near)? Ride needed this weekend. Will share expenses. Call Col· leen at 4049. ................................................................ GOING TO ST. LOUIS FOR EASTER  If so, The Obsarver needs your help In producing some summer issues of the newspaper. The jobs are variad and, if you are inter· ested In newspaper training in your spare time, call The Observer offlcas and ask for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker.  nert? PSYCHODELIC A BEAUX ARTS BALL COMING FRIDAY APRIL 10 PSYC­HODELIC  JT ·five days and counting. T minus one hour to BCBJA. Are you still yearning for creative abuse?  Call enher tor a calender of events. "Its bigger than a bunch of circus lunches!" ·Bill Hickey on George Peppard Week. M.E.-YOU WILL BE PLEASED TO NOTE  
the jacket reads P.E. Oeschger. A con­ BREAK?  The Observer  NAZZ COMPETITION  Congatulatlons to  KAREN  FLAHERTY  THAT YOUR BABY SISTER IS CARRY·  
tact lens caae and eyedrope were In one of the cheat pockets. ~ found PLEASE call Paul et 2287. No queatlons asked.  We need a ride there! If you can take two riders, please call Mary at 283-3726. We'll share all usual expenses.  and Special Olympics NEEDS YOUIII  NAZZ COMPETITION THIS FRIDAY I I I 7 P.M. STEPAN CENTER SPON. BY SAB NAZZ COMPE·  and ELISE KOZAK New co-presidents of P.W. -Look out NDI The wild women of third floor are taking charge I We knew  lNG ON THE LEGACY AT THE OBSER· VER. I MAY NEVER REACH "PARTY ANIMAL" STATUS, BUT I NEVER READ  
- were you at Campus VIew Friday? Did  ................................................................ HAVE FUN THIS SUMMER! Residential  TITION  NAZZ COMPETITION  you could do Ill love, KD, LP, CT, GA. SB, & AA  "HEART OF A DOG" EITHER. SEE YOU AT EASTERI  
you have a few too many beers? D ld you accidentally acquire my 35mm  Camp In Southwestern Michigan needs Program Directors, lnstnuctora, Unit  JUNIORS, JUNIOIIS, JUNIORS "'PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE JOB  RISE RISE  JULIA, HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND  Plan for the weekend: no McDonald&,  
Canon Snappy camera ? (The one with  Leaders, Counselors, Cooks and K"chen  SEARCH"'  RISE! II  WITH YOUR MOM. I'LL BE THINKING  townies, Hoosiera or snow. But II It  
my spring break Pictures and my friend's  Aides. Call or write for information an,·  PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND  THEODORE'S  OF YOU. LOVE,BRIAN  doesn't work out, this "sweetheart" still  
birthday)  Everyone  makee  mistakes,  applications.  Camp  Rosenthal,  3384  PLACEMENT SERVICES.  9:00·1:00 A.M.  thinks you're "cool." Until lriday ...t.h.( the  
you're forgiven, but please return my camera -at least my film • please! 283·  Clawson Rd., Dowagiac, Ml 49047 (616)424·5272. Call weekdays between  7:00p.m. TONIGHT. 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL.  Illinois' answer to U-2. . . .  PARTY IT UP MRS.HEWSON, HAVE A FANTASTIC WEEKEND WITH YOUR  other one)  
4428 or Holy Cross desk SMC  8:30 a.m.& 3:00 p.m.  ALL MAJORS WELCOME . .......................................­.......................~  SPECIAL DAUGHTER. LOVE BRIAN  Have you ever played strip quarters??  

~--~----~----------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987 -page 11 
Gooden chooses rehab instead of stiff penalty 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. ­Dwight Gooden, the talented but troubled New York Mets pitcher, agreed Wednesday to undergo treatment for a "drug use problem" rather than be suspended by Commissioner Peter Ueberroth. 
The 1985 National League Cy Young award winner probably would have started on Tuesday when the World Series cham­pions open the season against Pittsburgh. 
Mets General Manager Frank Cashen said Gooden voluntarily took a drug test ear­lier this week and it gave "some indication of past usage, but the extent is uncertain." 
Edwin Durso, baseball's secretary-treasurer and execu­tive vice president, said Cas­hen called Ueberroth on Monday and told him "there was a clear indication of a drug problem." 
"The commissioner made it perfectly clear to the Mets that, consistent with past policy, he was prepared to take severe disciplinary action against Dwight Gooden if the player did not seek an appropriate rem­edy," Durso said. 
Ueberroth, in a statement from Chandler, Ariz., said: "our policy is simple. If a player is willing to help him­self, he gets one chance. If he is unwilling to cooperate or a problem occurs a second time, then we will take the penalty route." 

Ueberroth conditionally suspended 11 players, among them Keith Hernandez of the Mets, in March 1986 following testimony during drug trials in Pittsburgh. All11 were allowed to keep playing if they donated part of their salary to drug pro­grams, performed community service and agreed to undergo drug testing. 
Gooden agreed to treament following a meeting Wednes­day morning with Cashen and Joe Mcilvaine, the club vice 
president  of  baseball  opera­ 
tions.  
Rumors  involving  Gooden,  

22, and drugs surfaced last summer after the pitcher's of­ten brilliant outings became in­consistent. His record dropped from 24-4 in his Cy Young season to 17-6 while his earned run average rose from 1.53 to 2.84. 
Gooden also struggled through a series of off-the-field incidents. He missed the Mets' ticker tape parade after win­ning the World Series and then got into a fight with Tampa police in December. 
The Observer Is accepting applications tor the following paid positions: 
Typists 
Questions should be directed to Jim Winkler at the Observer of­fice (239-5313). 
DON'T GIVE UP HOPE, GIVE HOPE. 

champion might have even more trouble with Sugar Ray Leonard, in his column on the back page. 
Senior holds 3.9 
McLachlan shines on and off field 
By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 
Here's one athlete who is definitely not lax with the books. In fact, John McLachlan, the high-scoring attack man for the Notre Dame lacrosse team, has sacrificed two seasons so he can concen­trate on his studies. 
"I had planned on playing lacrosse all four years," said the senior from Syracuse, N.Y., "but I found that my (electrical engineering) classes kept me too busy." 
The two years he took off, freshman and junior, definitely paid off, as McLachlan is the proud owner of a 3.9 GPA. 
''Now that I have taken care of my grades," he noted, "I can devote myself to lacrosse. I can go out there and have fun." 
And what fun he is having. McLachlan is currently the leading scorer for the Irish, a spot which he became familiar with during his sophomore season, when he finished third in scoring. 

"The field has really been opening up for me so far this year, and the breaks have been falling my way," he explained. "My linemates, John Olmstead and Jim Shields, and I are really starting to play well to­gether." 
It may seem surprising that McLachlan could take two years off and still play so well at such a high level of compe­tition. Well, it would be, if he did take the time off. 
"Even when I wasn't playing in the spring, I practiced in the fall workouts," he said. "Over the summer, I played on two teams, so I've never really been away from the game." 
Notre Dame head coach Rich O'Leary was sure glad to see his return to active duty at Notre Dame. In McLachlan, he 
Fight 
continued/rom page 16 
Those will not be easy tasks. 
Summer Sessions at 
Indiana University at South Bend May 18-June 29 July 6 -August 14 

For your copy of the schedule call 237-4455 IUSB Admissions Office 1700 Mishawaka Avenue 
got not only a senior who could provide leadership, but also a lot of scoring firepower. 
"We are looking for John to score some goals for us this year," said O'Leary, "but more than that, he creates a lot of scoring opportunities for others. His quickness makes him a tremendous assist man." 
McLachlan likes what he has seen of the Irish so far this year. 
"We've got a really good at­titude," he said, "and we are really working hard. Hopeful­ly, it will pay off." 
McLachlan and his team­mates will get a chance to find out this weekend, as they take on the Wooster Fighting Scots. The game is scheduled to be played in Wooster, Ohio, but 10 inches of snow may force the game to be played at Notre Dame, where the weather is so much better. 
And while the 62-2-2 (52 KOs) southpaw might be able to stand up to Leonard's punches, he is known to bleed above the eyes, where he has been cut several times. 
Leonard has overcome the 
odds before, in fights he has 
wanted less than this one. 
Hagler has looked progres­
sively worse, and has every­
thing to lose . in a fight he 
predicts will not last long. He 
is supposed to win. 
The more I think about it, the more I have to wonder if per­haps Marvelous Marvin Hagler is the man making the mistake . 


NOTRE DAME/ ST. MARY'S 3nl. ANNUAL CHARITY BALL ' APRIL 4, 1987. * 9-lam. * S. DINING HALL 
Applications for the 1987-88 staff are available in the Student Activities Office (3rd floor LaFortune). 
The deadline for all applications is April 8th. 
-
------------~---~ 
r------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
-~ 
-----------. The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987 -page 12 
And the preliminaries continue ••• 
Bookatore Tournament  
Wednelday'a Reaulta  Bookatore 10  
Step~~n 1  5 Guys Who Flow Like Rivers over Team #  
Team # 626 over The Rich Incident, NO Sows  576 by 6  
& 3 Other Reasons by 5  We May Not Be Big over Hodgemasters, 25-23  
Team # 271 over Chicks Dig Us by 6  The Dooble Brothers over Hot For Ted by 7  
Snow Blowers Over Extended Circle by 16  4 Guys Who Date SMC's over 5 Guys, One  
Herby & 4 Other Misfits over Lois Que No Nos  Dream, No Hope by 8  
Ganen by 3  Lyona 11  
Stepan 2  Team# 124 over We're Worse Than We Look  
The Condos over Team # 101 by 8  by 10  
6 Feet Under over Tex Fights Back W~h the All  Team # 546 over 5 Generic Drunks by 4  
New Hoosiers by 3  Still Clueless over The Mad Doctors by 8  
McHugh Retoske over 5 Crazy Girls by forfeit  Drive, Shoot. Penetrate, Layup & Score over  
What's Smaller Than a Teenie Weenle Fly over  The Hedonists by 10  
Rim Chew by 18  Lyons 12  
Stepan 3  The Yacht Club over JJ Heam, We Need You  
The Rundering Gumbies from Hell over We  by 3  
Suck Snot by 2  Pete And Toni Are Fat over TBA by 7  
Put A Helmet On That Soldier over Home Boys  Ponders points Python over Tumble Weeds by  
by 6  2  
Willy Wonka & The Sodium Clowns over Team  Rat Pack over Suicide Squads by 11  
# 128 by 11  
Gashmasters over 5 Arkys & Their 48" Tools  Thurlday'a Garnea  
by 11  Stepan 1  
Stepan 4  4:00 -Colin Rowe & 4 Other Slugs vs. Ben Wa  
Future's So Bright Gotts Wear Shades over  Ball Boys  
Compute by 16  4:45 -Eyewitness News vs. Oui-B-11  
Team # 531 over Basketball's A Dumb Game  5:30 -Michlana Express vs. Oliver North & The  
Anyway by 9  Classifieds  
The Invisible Touch over Moving Towards Equi­ 6:15-Killer Bees vs. Judokas From Hell  
librium by 5  Stepan 2  
Holy Rollers over The Longer Han 01 The Ten  4:00 -Antoniettl's Revenge vs. South Hall  
Man by 19  4:45 -Team # 550 vs. Fat NO Chicks, Iran &  
Stepan 5  3 Other  
Phi Slamma Jamma over Team # 28 by 6  5:30 -Actus Revs vs. Bad Company  
Effects Of Alcohol over Team # 6 by 7  6:15 -Ward, June & 3 Other People vs.  
Air Doggers over The Tower Commission by 7  Pasquale's Pests  
Get Your Tongue over Fuzzy Navels by 11  Stepan 3  
Stepan 6  4:00 -The Gus Mackers vs. 5 Guys Who Can't  
Stepan 6  Penetrate  
Length, Girth, Bumpy & The Little Man in the  4:45 -Revenge Of The Molton Lavae vs. Is It  
Canoe over Team # 628 by 15  Ok if I Go?  
You Drew A Bye over Too Short To Shoot by  5:30 -No Blood, No Foul vs. 5 Guys Who Put  
10  The Legend To Shame  
Team # 193 over Our Backsides Are Our Best  6:15 -5 Guys Who Should've Used The $5 vs.  
Sides by 14  Crocodile Jungee  
Otis Hurts over Steak Fajitas by 17  Stepan 4  
Bookatore 9  4:00 -Kempton Club All-Stars vs. The Masons  
lntemationalists over Spank & The Monkeys by  4:45-5 Responsible Drinkers From Pasquerilla  
11  North vs. Far Side Players  
Duncan Hines over So We Couldn't Think by 2  5:30 -The Old & Injured vs. 7 Minutes After 2  
Team # 295 over Team # 575 by 9  6:15 -Love Fest Lives vs. Team # 429  
Hoosier Lawyer? over Team 595 by forfeit  Done  

Stepan 5 
4:00 -Hey look, There's Com In My Stool vs. No, We Can't Dunk 
4:45 -What We Lack In Height vs. Desperados 
5:30 -Stand Up, You'll Do vs. Return Of The 
Slow Children 
6:15 -Team # 186 vs. Fawn Hall Lied Under Us, Too 
Step~~n 6 
4:00 -What The Puck vs. The Worst Team In Bookstore 
4:45 -Scullyeosis vs. Winnie Quinn & The Deep Dark 
5:30 -Just Call Us Luggage vs. CJ & THe Rastafarians 6:15-The Cool Team vs. Deunel 
Bookatore 9 
4:00 -Mulloy's Bay vs. 5 Cases Of L.F. 
4:45 -Hank Haymond, Mike Dltka & 3 Others vs. Flying Irish 
5:30 -Peeping Toms & Other VB. Papa Sumby & The Flying Eggmen 
6:15 -Air Monyek Ill-The Final vs. Chicken 
Patties, SMC Chicks, & Bookatore 10 
4:00 -Team # 563 VB. 4 Real Hogs & One Schmo Who Missed 
4:45 -Puss vs. The Loaded Guns 
5:30 -Wateringhole Bert Faeces vs. Jumping & Jerking 
6:15 -4 Fat Boys & A Cheesehead vs. Law School Still Sucks 
Lyon• 11 4:00-Y'all Thought This Was My Leg vs. Team # 105 
4:45 -Good Things Come In Small Packages vs. Team# 211 5:30-5 Methods Of Birth Control vs. Billy Goats' Flying Circus 6:15-Team # 27 vs. Team # 516 
Lyona 12 
4:00 -Oliver North & 4 Other Innocent Men vs. Wally Is A Wussy 
4:45 -Not Ready For Prime Time B-Ball Players vs. Chicks & Booze 
5:30 -Literary Illusions vs. Team # 206 6:15-Llberace, Len Bias & 3 Other Guys vs. Team# 140 
Three-point 
Student Activities Board
shot is here 
is now accepting
for next year 
applications for 

Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -The three­
IRISH GARDENS 
point shot will stay at its pres­ent distance of 19 feet, 9 inches Store Manager for at least another season of college basketball, and inten­
AND
tional fouls will be more expen­sive, the secretary of the NCAA rules Committee announced on 
ADWORKS 
Wednesday. "The three-point rule did ex­
President &
actly what it was intended to do," said Ed Steitz, the com­Executive Vice President mittee secretary. It increased scoring, opened up the game Pick up at 2nd floor and reduced rough play under 
LaFortune
the boards, he said. 
Despite howls of outrage Application Deadline: April .3 
ing support for retaining the 
~~~r:;~~i~~ shot in some form. 
Overall, he said, 1,448 coaches returned their ques­tionnaires, and 80 percent favored keeping the three-point shot. Of those in favor, 35 per­cent wanted it kept at its pres­ent distance, and 36 percent favored moving it back nine inches to the Olympic distance, he said. 
Three changes were voted in for next season, Steitz said. The most obvious change involves intentional fouls. 
"All intentional fouls will carry a two-shot penalty plus possession of the ball," he said. Currently, an intentional foul carries a two-shot penalty, but the offending team gains pos­session of the ball. 
The new rule would not have changed the outcome of Mon­day night's Indiana-Syracuse championship game, he said. Derrick Coleman of Syracuse was fouled by Indiana's Keith Smart with 28 seconds left in
-
the game. Coleman missed the front end of a one-and-one, and Smart wound up scoring the winning basket in a 74-73 In­diana victory. 
into professional · is-well, break­into professional · So ifyou're 
for an oppor­turn your talent into 
full-time perform-career, take a look at the 
NVA Calendar 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for a number of upcoming events on the NVA agenda. 
Included are the follow­ing: 
Tomorrow is the deadline for kayaking, with classes, outings and a $19 fee which includes equipment. 
Monday is the last day to register for the annual Irish Spring Runs, with three and six-mile events slated for Sunday, April12. There is a $4 entry fee. 
April 8 is the deadline for a pair of tennis tourna­ments, one for grad-faculty and another for hall teams. That is also the deadline for Sports Critique, where Notre Dame varsity coaches will critique the videotape of stu­dents participating in ath­letic events. 
In addition, NVA class of­ferings still open include Hydrorobics, Stretchercise, Karate and Scuba Diving. 
Registration andklr fur­ther information on these ac­tivities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100 or by stop­ping by the offices in the ACC. 
Can you afford to gamble with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,or MCAT? 
Probably not. Great grades alone may not be enough to impress the grad school of your choice. 
Scores play a part. And that's how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course subjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So if youve been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even if youre fresh out of college, do what over 1 million students have done. Take Kaplan. Why take a chance with your career? 
G\1<\r. 6! 

fKAPLAN187 
STANlfY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL ca-llER IJO. 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 *CLASSES 1
j\91'b
* INDEPENDENT STUDY -.r1\.1 ~ ') 1\R\_,.,{\*NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS ~•.tn'{ '€. 
<_;1U'-'
*TRANSFER DISCOUNTS! 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n•••••••••••••-••n•a•n•-•••••••••••••••••••••••••J
prior to the rule's implementa­
tionforthispastseason, alate--c;o FROM COLLEGE TOTHE ARM~
season poll showed overwhelm-
WITHOUT MISSIMI'! Aa~ ....
U ~~~ 
The hardest thing about break­of 40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the 

also the opportunity for travel-could be your big break. Write: 
not only across America, but possibly Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort 
abroad. Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005. Most important, you can Or call toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY 
expect a first-rate pro­

fessional environment 
from your instructors, 
facilities and fellow musicians. The Army has educational programs that can help _you pay for off­duty instruc­tion, and if you qual­ifv, even help you repay 
federally -insured 
your ARMY BAND.
student loans. Ifvou can sight BE ALLYOU CAM BE. 
---~-----~--------~ 
Thursday, April 2, 1987 -page 13The Observer 
I I I 

~lPri~S CF-:p()SrTIQJ.S ~t:> APPL\CAT\O~S AVA\~E:. I~ ~ T ()FF\<'ES­
..
2.t-Jt> ~ LA~. A.PPL.\CA\\~ DUE, &'( 4'.CO~ -Fl2.\l:::,A.Y~ A~\L $. 

The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1987-page 14 
Graduation, suspension open opportunities at 'backer slots 
By RICK RIETBROCK Cedric Figaro, who recovered Sports Writer seven fumbles in addition to being the team's third-leading 
The spring started with three tackler, and reserve Dan Quinn of the four starters lost to were suspended from spririg graduation. And if that isn't drills recently. enough, the other starter gets Defensive Coordinator and 
Spring Football 
'87 

suspended for the spring for disciplinary reasons. Sounds like tough sledding ahead. 
That's the situation of the Notre Dame linebacking corps this spring. Captain Mike Kovaleski, the team's leading tackler last season, is gone. So is Ron Weissenhofer, and Dave Butler has graduated as well. 
Inside Linebacker Coach Foge Fazio realizes the holes left at inside linebacker are big ones to fill, but he says he is confi­dent the Irish have the material to plug them. 
"We lost two outstanding guys on the inside," he says. "Weissenhofer was so under­rated, you never knew just how much he contributed, and Kovaleski was the heart and soul of the defense, in addition to being the leading tackler. 
"But Wes Pritchett will fill in very well. He was not a reg­ular reserve last year but he played at some very important times." 
Pritchett, a junior, had 46 tackles last year and will fill one of the inside spots. The bat­tle for the other inside position figures to be a dogfight be­tween sophomore Ned Bolcar and freshman Mike Stonebreaker (21 tackles). Bol­car was a special-teams stan­dout last season, while Stonebreaker saw extensive duty for a freshman. 
Other players vying for some playing time include Mike Johnson, Greg Harris and Mike Farrel. Freshman Jim Dadiotis, who was also in the hunt, is injured and may miss the rest of the spring. 
On the outside, Butler's graduation and Figaro's suspension have made the field small in number, but not in tal­ent. Junior Darrell "Flash" Gordon (19 tackles) heads the group. Converted fullback Frank Starns is also working at outside linebacker. Freshman Rod West, also very talented, has made great strides this spring, as has sophomore Greg Hudson. 
"Butler really came on last season and we need someone to come on like that," Fazio says. "Gordon has outstanding talent, but he's hurt too much. Starns is a great addition to the group and Rod West is playing very well right now as well." 
Fazio says the Figaro prob­lem is not a concern right now, and the coaching staff chooses to view the situation in a posi­tive way. 
"We think he'll find out just how important football is for him," Fazio says. "Meanwhile, it gives Frank Starns and Rod West, guys with potential, a lot of time to get coaching. They're getting valuable experience." 
Right now experience is probably the most important thing for the Irish 'backers to receive. Fazio says all the raw talent is there, but time needs to be spent on learning the pos­itions. 
"As a group these guys have good speed," Fazio says. "They are also a very physical bunch. Now what we need to do is work on techniques, foot­work, some of the fine tuning. Once these guys get the finer points down, they'll be okay." 

Sf:udenl: Governrruznl: 

Interested in helping to manage and accountfor 
$385,000? 
If you are a sophomore business major who enjoys working with money and people, Student Government needs you as the Student Body Assistant Treasurer. 
Applications are available in the Treasurer's office, 2nd floor LaFortune, between 12-4:30 pm. They are due Tuesday, AprU 7th, by 4:30 pm. 

Chris 
•
• •0 
s . 
~~~~ RENTAL 1 
No Deposit Ask about our Free Membership 95t student club 
membership!
No Hassle 

per day (2 day min) 
"Early Bird 
• Special" 
•
•
• 
•
• 
(blockbuster and Premium Movies -N/A) : 
•
•
•
• 
... 
$9.95 
for3days 
Plus-1st Movie FREE
MA@niNf. 
512 W. Edison 
Mishawaka 
• 256-0226 
:  55011 Mayflower  
:  South Bend  
:  288-8348  

Curtis 
1111111111111111111~4i:llt~~~ 
HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER • 
Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How dol know 
if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
What is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How dol pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions at Theodore's until Friday, April 3rd: 

* General Manager 
* 
Programming Director 

* 
Promotions Director 

* 
Reservations Manager 

* 
Catering Manager 



Applications are available at the Office of Student Activities 301 LaFortune Student Center 
For personal, confidential intervie.., ..,ith no obligation, please ..,rite or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
For appointment. call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6385 

Fr~ Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 

~~:::::;::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:::::::::::::::=::::========:=====::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;:;:;;::::::::=====:=:::=============::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::~r ---------------------1 
Campus 
4:30 p.m.: Mathematical Colloquium "The Classification of Normal Surfaces," by Prof. Fumio Sakai, Saitama Univer­sity, Japan. 226 CCMB 
7:00 p.m.: Thursday Night Film Series "The War Game," 1965, Black and White, 47 minutes, directed by Peter Watkins, Great Britain, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 7:00, 9:00 & 11:00 p.m.: Movie, "Spinal Tap," sponsored by SAB, $1.50, Engineer­ing Auditorium 7:30p.m.: Meeting, Fellowship of Chris­tian Athletes, Stanford 24-hour lounge 7:30p.m.: Friends of the Snite Museum "What is Art?" Series Lecture "The Re­naissance: Man, Nature, and God," by Prof. Charles M. Rosenberg, ND, Annen­berg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m.: Engineer's Week Pinewood Derby Race, prizes will be awarded with a pizza party starting at 8 p.m., free to all engineers, Engineering Student Center (217 Cushing) 8:00p.m.: Theology Lecture "The Abor­tion Debate: The Wider Context,'' by Rev. Richard A. McCormick, S.J., ND, Library Auditorium 
r----------------------------------,
I I
Focus On I I America's I 
I I
Fut re I 
I I I I 
~----------------------------------~ 
:iii dl. Get Jazzed for the :-: r{l. ·
I,?Ye0'-NAZZ 
:=: We'll Rock your socks off 
=11 
h~~e~~ ~~s 
•:=:_.=_;::::·.:=. csomingMtoobtihlee· v~~~~~~~~r 
• pace . thoughts and ·.· STEPAN support your favorite 
8:00p.m.: Mrican Studies Program lec­ture "South Mrica: The Struggle for Liberation," by Rev. Malusis Mpumlwana, CSC Auditorium 
8:00 p.m.: SMC Department of Music Graduate Artists Recital Series Jun-Ching Lin, violin, Little Theatre 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Romano Beef Stroganoff with Egg Noodles Eggplant Parmigiana Italian Pizza Bun 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet and Gravy Pork Chow Mein Swedish Pancakes-Cherry Deli Bar 
Oo0~$ . ~~~o'?lt/1  r , SAB presents: ·:·: 'I: SPINAL TAP  
:::: t  
!iii t Pretty in Pink  

7:00 Friday, April aj!ll I 
Sponsored by SAB t: t o\totil.ltl' * 7 9 11 * $1 50 t
·i , tP ~~ , , • , 
-
Far Side Gary Larson 
a IIHie female. . . . really, we'll both be content If It Just has six eyes and eight legs." 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 A Fleming 4 Places 8 Bakery worker 
12 Approximately 13 Surmounting 14 Famous 16 Express 
disapproval 18 Refrain part 19 -de France 20 Merman or 
Waters 21 Of branches 22 Bastes 24 Garland 26 Adherent: 
suff. 27 Mass. motto word 28 "A Shrop­shire-" 31 Offerings 
at teatime 33 Stray 35 Strapped 36 Involve 38 Grates 40 Clique 43 Harsh 44 Ram's mate 45 lsr. port 4 7 Adjective 
suffix 48 Double curve 50 Customers 51 Pinnacle 
of ice 53 Irreligious 
person 57 Tabby 58 Lizard 59 Expunge 61 Lawful 62 Before: pref. 63 Rara­64 Dried up 65 Wail 66-room 
DOWN 1 Tralee's land 2 Calumniate 3 Neither's 
partner 4 Agreement 5 Mormon state 

<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
4/2/87
All Rights Reserved 
6 Kind of bag 7 Relieve 8 Complicated 9 Afr. gazelle 
10 Worsted 
material 11 Connected 12 Character in 
"Swan Lake" 15 Valleys 17 Recipients: 
suff. 23 Create 25 Manor 28 Subsides 29 Ocean: abbr. 30 Do a wind­
shield job 32 "Otello" and 

"Turandot" 34 Curse 37 Subdue 38 Errs in bridge 46 Colo. park 54 Eng. composer 
39 Norm 49 Orate 55 Means of 
41 Certain grotto 50 Corn or cycle access 
42 Wandering 52 Eastern 56 Yemen port 
43 Rope fiber potentate: var. 60 Vehicle • 
, 
: Tonight * $1.50 : ' 
...
7, 9, 11 t 
* Tomorrow &. t Saturday I 
:: group! :::: ' ' 
\=====================:=====::::::::====::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;::=:::=:=:::=====:.=;::=:=::::::::::::::::::=:::::=:=:=:=:::::=:::::::::~:::~~~~=::::=:::::::~~:::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::==::::=:::==::=:=::;:~ L---------------------J 

-
S~orts 
Moran Bookstore Basketball XVI entered its second steady rains could not keep the ball out of the day of play yesterday at various sites, and even hoop. Brian O'Gara has details at right. 
Irish fall to Valpo· by 9-5 margin, continue recent spell of poor play 
By KARA KOONS Sports Writer The baseball game at Jake Kline field was called in the eighth inning Wednesday be­cause of rain, with Valparaiso dumping the 7-10 Irish by a 9-5 score. "When you are interviewed after a losing game, it is very easy to stress a lot of nega­tives," said Irish head coach Larry Gallo. "But the simple  RBI. First baseman Tim Hut­son also came through for Notre Dame with two hits and two RBI. Pitching and defense, or lack thereof, hurt Notre Dame. Mike Coffey started on the mound for the Irish. During his four innings he gave up 11 hits and six earned runs. In the top of the fifth Coffey was relieved by Erik Madsen, who gave up seven hits and three earned runs.  hot bat for the Crusaders was designated hitter Larry Meding. He went three-for-five with a two-run homer in the top the the third inning. Pitcher Shawn Barker registered the win. "Valparaiso deserves all the credit for this game," said Gal­lo. "They just outplayed us." The Irish had a tough time bringing men home. In the first and the fifth innings they left three men on base without a  
truth is, we have just not been playing well since we came back from Texas." The Irish had nine hits and only one error against the Crusaders. Shortstop Pat Pesavento led the Irish in hit­ The Crusaders gave an im­pressive show with 18 hits and nine RBI. Centerfielder Paul Gose smacked four hits includ­ing two doubles with one RBI. Catcher Steve Wigdor also went four-for-five with one  score in either inning. The Irish take on Bethel today at 2 at Jake Kline field. Because of weather this game had to be rescheduled from Tuesday. "We have a lot of baseball  
ting,  going  3-for-4  with  two  double and one RBI. Another  left to play," said Gallo.  

Thursday, April 2, 1987 -page 16 
Even South Bend rain can't slow Bookstore 
By BRIAN O'GARA the entire field of Bookstore Basketball teams, will begin
Sports Writer 
Saturday. 
The first of April's showers One of the most impressive Wednesday turned into a performances yesterday came steady rain that pelted . from the team called Otis Bookstore Basketball XVI Hurts, which defeated Steak players and spectators. Fajitas, 21-4. 
Thirty-eight of the 40 sched­"They are looking like a very uled games were played, tough team right now," said however, and several fine per­tournament commissioner formances were turned in Steve Wenc. 
Bookstore Basketball 
XVI 

despite the inclement weather. Kathy Dolan and Maria Loyal fans cheered their favor­Moran turned in stellar individ­ite teams through games ual play when their team, Too which, on the average, lasted Short to Shoot, lost to You drew 
longer than normal because of a Bye, 21-11. The Too Short the slippery conditions of the team, consisting of five girls, court and ball. Although prob­was led by Dolan's nine points ably more colds than crisp and Moran's 12 rebounds. passes were caught, few The rain influenced the style players were ready to curse the of many games on the day, as weather. puddle-laden courts made drib­
"Playing in the rain bling difficult. epitomizes the fun spirit of the "It was nearly impossible to tournament," said Rob Ziemba dribble," said Sean O'Brien of of Willy Wonka and the Sodium 5 Guys Who Flow Like Rivers. Clowns, which defeated Team "We had to do a lot more pass­No. 128, 21-10. "It makes ing to get the ball where we Bookstore more fun and wanted it." meaningful." O'Brien steered the ship for 
"The bad weather just 5 Guys, hitting several key makes it more exciting to play jump shots in the second half, in," said Tom King of while he and his teammmates Hodgemasters. "You don't were able to run the fast break · need to have extra motivation off stolen passes and defeat to come out here on a day like Team No. 576, 21-15. today--it's Bookstore Basket­Like O'Brien, not everyone i ball." was overjoyed to see the clouds i 
King's team dropped a hard­open up over South Bend yes-. fought contest to We May Not terday. Wenc, realizing that ; Be Big But We're Slow, 25-23. weather rarely cooperates for I 
That game lasted one hour and the Bookstore Basketball 45 minutes before the outcome tournament, offered only one was finally decided, making it comment and a slight grin. the longest of the day. "We could definitely do with­
Yesterday's 40 winners now out it," said Wenc, as he sorted advance to the regular tourna­out the rain-soaked box scores. ment bracket, while the pre­Springtime means rain in liminary rounds will continue South Bend. Springtime means · 
through Friday. The first round Bookstore Basketball at Notre of sectional games, involving Dame. 
.. 
• 
Odds favor Hagler, but don't count Sugar Ray out yet 
My first reaction was probably similar to the reactions of many boxing fans around the country . 
Why was Sugar Ray Leonard risking his sight, having suffered from a detached retina, by step­ping back into the ring against a man known for dishing out severe pain? After all, Leonard has already retired twice, and tried making a com­eback once before in a less-than-impressive vic­tory over journeyman Kevin Howard. 
That 1984 bout is the former Olympic gold medalist's only fight in five years, and Monday night he takes on a man who thinks so much of himself that he changed his name from Marvin Hagler to Marvelous Marvin Hagler. There's humility for you. 
They're billing it 'The Superfight,' and perhaps it would have been just that six or seven years ago. 'The Fight of the Dacade' is being fought one decade too late. 
But what this battle of the once-greats will lack in sharp skills and young fists, it makes up for in mystique. And hype. And money ... to the tune of $12 million and $11 million guaranteed to Hagler and Leonard, respectively. That adds up to the richest fight in history. 
Why fear Hagler, who is famed for getting hap­pier when he is hit on the chin and for entering another dimension of mind when he wipes out so­called opponents? 
Because he pounded Thomas Hearns in three rounds in 1985? Keep in mind that Leonard also stopped Hearns on a TKO in the 14th round of a 1981 unification bout, at a time when Hearns was 32-0 and tabbed 'unbeatable.' Also recall a stag-

Marty Strasen 
Assistant Sports Editor 
gered Hagler in his last fight, when the 32-year-old (Leonard says Hagler is at least 36) struggled but eventually dropped John Mugabi. 
What about the layoff for the 30-year-old ex­welterweight champion Leonard? Shouldn't that give Hagler the edge? 
Perhaps. But Hagler has been out of the ring for more than a year as well. The Mugabi fight was in March of last year, and Leonard has been out of the gym very little since outlasting Howard. 
What about the psychological war going on? You've got to give Hagler the edge in the intimida­tion category, for wanting the fight more, right? 
Don't be so sure. While it's true Hagler wanted Leonard after the latter stopped Howard in 1981, he smiled in 1982 when Leonard pointed directly to him and said the great fight would never hap­pen. Inside, he was burning. 
But why did Hagler wait before accepting Leonard's challenge for this battle? He claims he wanted Leonard to fight a tune-up bout first to prove that he was ready to take on the mid­dleweight champ. And now, it appears Leonard might just want this fight more. 
"I have the stamina that I need," says Leonard. "My mind is clean, it's clear. I get up in the mor­ning and I see this man. It's so vivid, and that's why I know I'm going to win." 
Meanwile, Hagler talks of disposing of his op­ponent as soon as he lays a glove on him. He talks about his superior strength and his ability to take Leonard's best punch. Many say the champ's punching power will be the difference. Las Vegas has Hagler a 2-to-1 favorite, down from the 3-to-1 starting odds, but still giving Hagler a big edge. 
Word from the Leonard camp, however, says the 33-1 fighter, who charmed a nation with his flawless boxing skills and graceful dancing around the ring, has not lost a whole lot in foot speed. They plan no real secrets. Leonard will box, use his height and reach advantage, and hope to prolong the match. 
Hagler will go for the quick knockout, trying to corner his fleet-footed challenger and get inside. see FIGHT, page 11 
