
SPECIAL OLYMPICS ISSUE ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987 
The Official Publication of the International Summer Special Olympics Games 

The Observeri.Jim Carroll Volunteers have spent many hours pre­begin today, the official openingparing for the VII International Sum­ceremonies will be held Sunday evening mer Special Olympics Games. The at Notre Dame Stadium. During the 
games, which run through next Friday, ceremonies, a lighted torch will be showcase athletes from around the carried to this platform.world. Though preliminary events 
Center aids volunteers 
By SUSAN MULLEN tend one of the orientation sessions in April.
Observer staff 
The video is about an hour long and 
The 15,000 volunteers assisting at the covers how to work with mentally­1987 International Summer Special handicapped athletes and gives valu­Olympics Games will be aided by the able tips on effective volunteering at Volunteer Center, located at the Senior the Special Olympics. Alumni Club. If a volunteer encounters a problem 
Margaret Thomas, Human Services with a work assignment, he or she assistant, explains that volunteers are should try to straighten it out at the to check in at the Center to get infor­specific work area, Thomas said. She mation, maps and thank-you packets. added, however, that there will be 
"The Volunteer Center is not an offi­notification at the Center of any last c:al information booth, but volunteers minute assignment changes or addi­are welcome to stop in for any reason tional assistance needed in certain -problems, questions or even a drink of areas. 
water," explains Thomas. There will be 20 to 25 workers at the 
All volunteers are also encouraged to Center and volunteer assistance tables view the orientation video at the Cen­set up to deal with questions and direct ter, if they didn't have a chance to at-volunteers. 

International Games have arrived at last 
The 1987 International Summer Spe­featuring Canoeing, Rowing, Sailing, 
cial Olympics are here at last. Synchronized Swimming, and Team 
More than 4,500 athletes, represent­Handball. 
ing every state and territory of the U.S. Over 16,000 volunteers from the St. 
and 72 countries, have flocked to the Joseph Valley area will be on hand to 
campuses of the University of Notre assist the athletes and their coaches 
Dame and Saint Mary's College. Com­with everything from food services to 
peting for the first time will be delega­language translation. 
tions from the People's Republic of Former Olympic athletes and other 
China, Austria, Yugoslavia and Por­well-known sports figures will conduct 
tugal. exhibitions and clinics in a variety of 
More than 60,000 spectators are ex­sports. In addition, athletes and their pected to fill Notre Dame Stadium on families will be offered a wide range of Sunday night, August 2, for the Opening cultural and entertainment activities, Ceremonies. The Ceremonies will in­including the Expo Center, Olympic clude a Parade of Athletes with Town, Sports Night, and the colorful celebrity escorts for each delegation, Closing Ceremonies on Friday, August the Torch Lighting Ceremony, and ap­7. pearances by Whitney Houston and other major entertainers. Indiana's two United States Senators, 
The Ceremonies will be broadcast to Dan Quayle and Richard Lugar, intro­a national prime-time audience by the duced a Senate resolution to designateABC Television Network on Monday, August 2 to 8 as "International Special August 3, at 9 p.m. EDT. Olympics Week," and August 3 as "In­
Official sports for the Games include ternational Special Oympics Day,"Aquatics, Basketball, Bowling, Gym­which has since been confirmed bynastics, Soccer, Softball, Volleyball, Congress and President Reagan. and Wheelchair Events. Also included The stage is set. The volunteers are in this year's Summer Games are a ready. The athletes are primed. So, let 
number of demonstration events the Games begin! 

Ceremonies planned 
By LIZ PANZICA choreography was also arranged exclu­Observer Staff sively for the Games by Judy Chabola 
and Darlynn Ernst through Radio City 
The portable lights have once again Music Hall Productions. They worked been brought into Notre Dame's under a tight schedule and stadium. This time, however, they're choreographed the complicated routine not for a football game. in about a week. 
The lights will illuminate Sunday The portion of the production show­night's opening ceremonies for the 1987 casing local talent is composed of a 216 International Summer Special Olym­person drill team, 80 flags, 100 jazzer­pics Games. The opening ceremonies, cisers, 27 herald trumpeters, and a 150 to be televised nationally on Monday piece band. evening, will be a extravaganza the Drill team members were selected likes of which has never been seen from local auditions of area dancers, before in South Bend. cheerleaders, porn pons, and gymnasts. 
Shows of this type usually take The drill team will be joined by a flag months to perfect, but the Special corp and a band composed of several Olympics opening ceremonies cast was Chicago district schools. The use of not afforded that luxury. Participants Chicago area groups was needed be­had only 50 hours of concentrated cause of the late organizing of the rehearsal time to learn the routine. opening ceremonies. Most members of 
Drill team member Deb Thompson local bands were already committed to said she thought learning the routine in the games in other capacities. such short a time period was difficult. One interesting group, the jazzer­But, she said, "Most of the girls here cisers, is composed of 100 jazzercise in­are used to learning routines, so it came structors from all over the midwest. quickly.'' The instructors were considered a pre­
Coordinators of this show have a va­auditioned group because their skill riety of experience in several shows of level was already known. The instruc­this type. Several "extravaganza staff tors were sent video tapes of the routine members" worked on Liberty Weekend ahead of time and expected to know the and the Los Angeles Summer Olym­routine when they arrived at Notre pics. Dame a few days prior to the opening 
Steve Sanborn, line production ceremonies. manager, is quick to point out that the About 100 support people are needed 1987 Special Olympics Summer Games to allow opening ceremonies to run opening ceremonies will be an original smoothly. They aid in areas such as work. He says, "The Special Olympics lighting, props, and costumes. The will have its own unique flare and performing volunteers are enthusiastic taste" which sets it apart from other about this opportunity. Sheila Culp of productions of this kind. Nappanee explained that she "wanted 
The music to be used in the opening to help with the Special Olympics, and ceremonies was specially arranged for (the drill team) is something I enjoy Special Olympics by Tony Fox amd Don Harper. Like the music, the see OPENING, page 10 
The Observer ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 2 

Saturday, August 1 
~...... 
Aquatic 

7:30 a.m. -8:30 a.m. Head Coaches Meeting 
2:00p.m. -6:00p.m. 
Trials: 50m Freestyle 50m Butterfly 50m Backstroke 1m Diving, Rounds 1, 2, 
&3 

athletiCS nrack & heidi 
Athletics 8:00a.m.-8:45a.m. . Athletic Coaches Meetmg (Awards -Astro Turf) 
9:00a.m.-7:30p.m. Trials: 9:00a.m. -9:30 a.m. 25m Wheelchair Race 9:00a.m.-11:00 a.m. 
Running Long Jump (3 pits) 9:30a.m.-11:00 a.m. 
lOOm Dash (Pentathlon) (2 tracks) 9:30a.m.-1:30 p.m. 
High Jump (4 pits) 
10:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Shot Put ( 4 circles) 
11:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. 50m Dash (2 tracks) 
11:30 a.m. -1:30 p.m. 
Running Long Jump (Pentathlon) (3 pits) 1:00 p.m.-2:00p.m. 
400m Dash 3:00p.m. -3:30p.m. lOOm Wheelchair Race (East Track) 25m Walk (West Track) 3:00p.m. -5:00p.m. Running Long Jump (3 pits) 3:30p.m. -5:30p.m. 
Softball Throw (4 areas) 200m Dash 5:30p.m.-6:00p.m. 
lOOm Race Walk (West Track) 6:00p.m.-7:30p.m. 
Standing Long Jump (4 pits) 1500m Run 
,~ 
basketball 
Basketball 8:30a.m.-5:00p.m. 
Team Practice -ACC Auxillary Gym, ACC Intramural Gym, Rockne # 1 & # 2 
Trials: Team Com1 etition -ACC Arena 6:00p.m.-10:00 P·~· 

Trials: Individual Skills -ACC Auxiliary Gym, ACC Arena 8:30a.m. -10:00 p.m. . 
Basketball Information Center -ACC Gate 1 


Bowling 9:00a.m.-11:00 a.m. Practice 1:00 p.m.-2:00p.m. . Head Coaches Meetmg 2:00p.m. -5:00p.m. Trials 

gymnashcs 

Gymnastics 8:30a.m. Gymnasium opens up for warm-ups 
9:50 a.m. Parade of Athletes 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Trials: Level I 
Compulsories Floor Exercises Balance Beam Vault Developmental Tumbling 
12:30 p.m. 
Gymnasium opens up for warm-ups 
1:50 p.m. Parade of athletes 2:00p.m.-5:00p.m. Trials: Level I 
Compulsories Floor Exercises Balance Beam Vault Uneven Bars High Bars Parallel Bars Optional Floor Exercises 
5:30p.m. Gymnasium opens up for warm-ups 
6:50 p.m. Parade of athletes 7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. Trials: Level II 
Compulsories . Floor Exercises Vault Balance Beam Uneven Bars Parallel Bars High Bars 

soccer 

Soccer Trials: 8:00a.m. -12:00 p.m. Individual Skills 
9:00a.m. -12:00 p.m. Team Trials Individual Skills 
3:00p.m.-5:00p.m. Team Trials 
7:00p.m.-8:00p.m. Head Coaches Meeting 

Softball 9:00a.m.-4:00p.m. Team Trials (preliminary ga~es) . Individual Skills Trial 

volleyball 
Volleyball Trials: 9:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Seeding Tournament 1:00 p.m.-5:00p.m. Skills Testing 
7:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. Finals Individual Skills 

cycling 
Cycling 1:00-1:30 p.m. . 
Coaches Meeting Samt Mary's College; (start line) 1:30 p.m.-2:30p.m. 
Practice 
3:00p.m.-5:00p.m. Time Trials 5km
----"""" 

equcstnan evenls 
Equestrian 
10:00 a.m. -4:00p.m. Practice Trials 

roller skating 
Roller Skating 9:00a.m.-9:30a.m. Practice 

Tennis 9:00a.m. -3:00p.m. Practice 

Table Tennis 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. Practice: Gym # ACC 
)( 
we1ghlht11ng 
Weightlifting 9:00a.m.-3:00p.m. Practice 
Clinics 9:00a.m.-11:00 a.m., 1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. . 
Canoeing (open) -Samt Mary's Lake 
10:30 a.m.-11:15 a.m., 1:30 p.m. -2: 15 p.m. Team Handball-Reita Clanton 
11:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. 
Softball (coaches) 1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. 
INTERNATIONAL 
1 • 9 • 8 . 7 


\Ill
-
W' 

SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
G A M E S® 
Today's Issue was produced by the following: Mary Jacoby Jim Riley Kim Yuratovac Matt Sitzer Cathy Stacy Paul Babka Tripp Baltz Susan Mullen Liz Panzica Chris Donnelly Joan Wrappe Patti Tripathi Sara Marley Bob Tyler Melinda Chapleau Jim Carroll Fred Dobie Suzanne Poch Sean Reardon Judy Molnar Valerie Lamanna Kevin Becker 

Today's weather: partly sunny 

The Observer 
ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 3 

CESSNA donated athletes' transportation 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Observer Staff 
For more than 900 participants in the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games, Michiana Regional Airport will be their first and last glimpse of northern Indiana. 
According to Mike Guljas, assistant director of the airport, the athletes ar­rived between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Friday. They will leave during that same time period on Saturday August 8. 
"CESSNA, a manufacturer of busi­ness jets, donated their own aircraft for the event," Guljas said. 
Guljas said the company asked owners of private CESSNA aircraft to volunteer their own planes as well. 
"CESSNA (brought) in athletes fr.om a radius of 400 or 600 miles," Guljas added. Olympians from West Virginia, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Connec­ticut, Tennessee, Arkansas, Kansas, Nebraska and South Dakota flew on CESSNA aircrafts, which usually seat only 10 to 12 people, according to Guljas. 
"There are at least 4500 athletes par­ticipating in this event, and only 900 (came) into the Michiana Regional Air­port," he said. 
Guljas said most of the participants arrived at Chicago's O'Hare and Mid­way Airports. Athletes and their families also landed in Detroit's Metropolitan Airport. 
"Pan Am is offering free transporta­tion on an international basis for a lot of the participants, and they will be using the (other) airports as well," he said. 
The states of Oklahoma and Wash­ington have chartered planes for their Special Olympic representatives to cut the cost of flying. 

Athletes urged to defect 
Associated Press 
A group of Cuban athletes who will compete in the International Special Olympics Games arrived on the Notre Dame campus Friday after Cuban exiles urged them to defect outside their Miami hotel. 
The 23 athletes were the objects of a peaceful one-hour demonstration Wed­nesday night outside the Columbus Hotel, said Armando Villorin, a Miami police spokesman. 
But neither he nor hotel general manger Lillian Smith knew if the Cuban exiles were aware that the athletes were mentally retarded. 
Miami Mayor Xavier Suarez visited the athletes and ordered uniformed police to guard the hotel's entrances, said Smith. 
About 35 people shouted in Spanish that they would open their arms to anyone who wanted to defect. 
The athletes left the hotel on schedule 
about 4 a.m. Thursday to continue their 
trip to South Bend. 
The group arrived by plane in Chicago and then traveled to South Bend, said Special Olympics spokes­man Michael Minich. 

The arrival of Special Olympians and their coaches and families on Friday was not expected to interfere with reg­ularly scheduled flights, according to Guljas. "We won't need to change our schedules. We're used to heavy air traf­fic. The Michiana Regional Airport ser­vices eight airlines and over 600,000 passerl'gers per year," Guljas said. 
He added that CESSNA will have its own terminal with which to operate. 
"CESSNA will operate on the north side of the terminal. Other traffic is handled on the south side. 
Volunteers and regular airport employees will help to unload partici­pants and their baggage. "Around 60 people total will be on hand to offer assistance," he said. 
Guljas added that there will be a "real short" training session for volun­teers concerning the specifics of the un­loading and welcoming procedures. 

U.S. Navy Band members deplane at Michiana Regional Airport Friday as 
The Observeri.Jim Carroll they prepare to perform for the Special Olympians this weekend. 


Buy One PIZZA Get One FREE! 

Buy any size Original Round Pizza at regular price and get the identical pizia FREE with this coupon. 
1349 Portage Ave.  510 W. McKinley  
233-3200  259-0021  
4626 Western Ave.  2047 E. Ireland  
234-4192  291-8260  

~~~®~
W When you make pizza this good, one just isn't enough." 
01986 Utile cae.. Enterprises, Inc.




lr.!--·
VAUIAII.£COUPOH ·--~--· VAI.UAiliCOUPOH ·--..
1s~ 1s~ I 1Two 14" PizzasiTwo 12" Pizzasl
I $1 o.~~~l $7.!~1 
I Large Size PizzasI Medium Size Pizzas~I with Cheese & I with Cheese & 
1

1 2 Items 1 2 Items 
1

Extra items and extra cheese I Extra items and extra cheeseII available at additional cost. available at additional cost.I Valid with coupon at participat-1 Valid with coupon at participat-11ing Little Caesars. One couponl ing Little Caesars. One couponI I per customerl Carry Out Only. I per customer. Carry Out Only. I 
Expires: 8-22-87 I Explrea: 8-22-87 I 
1®~~.(1)~@@;~. 
·--·VAUIMIICOWON ___..___ VAUIMIICOWON ·---' 
The Observer 
ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 4 

Greek coin reveals original Olympic torch 
By MATT SITZER 
Observer staff 
South Bend resident Ed Mejer is not an archaeologist, nor is he a lettered historian, but if you have a question about the original Greek Olympic Games, Ed Mejer is one man to ask. 
If you have a question about the original Olympic torch, Ed Mejer is the only man to ask. 
In 1979, Mejer's prized coin collection was stolen from his North Lafayette Blvd. home. For insurance purposes, he needed to evaluate the projected worth of each of the stolen coins. He did his re­search at Notre Dame's Res­burgh Memorial Library. 
Throughout the course of his research, Mejer noticed that a certain Greek coin kept popping-up again and again in the pages of many of the coin­collecting books. On the face of the coin was the magestic image of a flaming torch. Mejer looked into the history of the coin and discovered that the torch depicted on its face was, in fact, an image of the first Olympic torch, dated to the year 776 B.C. 
Intrigued, Mejer began to study the history of the first Greek Olympics and has since become a virtual storehouse of ancient Olympic knowledge. 
"The first Olympics opened during the Greek month of Apollonius (April) in 776 B.C., in the town of Olympia of the province Elis, Greece," said Mejer. "The first and only event was a 200 yard foot. race 

held in a meadow near the river 
Alpheus." 
Mejer added that the winner of the firstOlympics, Coroebus of Elis, wasn't crowned with a wreath of olive leaves, nor was he given a golden medalion ­his prize was an apple! 
"The Olympic winner was not actually crowned until the seventh Olympiad," said Mejer. "Messenian Daicles, who won the foot race at those Games, was the first Olympian to be crowned. " 
Mejer's historical research led him to reproduce the torch image from the coin. He ob­tained a patent for the torch in 1983, and has since reproduced it on commemorative plates, belt buckles, rings, medalions, and many other interesting col­lectibles. 
Mejer has donated one of the porcelain commemorative plates, done in 24-carat gold, to the International Summer Spe­cial Olympic Committee. In ad­dition, several of his Olympic torch belt buckles will be pre-• sented to the members of the Special Olympics Greek delegation. 
Mejer is conducting a one­man crusade to inform people about the first Olympic torch. "Most people have never seen it before," he said. "They're used to seeing the modern torches being used these days. I just want them to see what the original one looked like." 


WELCOME 
to the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME and the 1987 INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SPECIAL .QLYMPICS GAMES Athletes Coaches Officials Volunteers Sponsors Spectators 
In the Spirit of Notre Dame the University Salutes You 
"What tho' the odds be great or small" 
ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 5 
The Observer 

Former champion returns as 'hugger' 
By BOB TYLER Observer Staff 
He's gone "Hugger." 
And she's a venue manager. 
It's a cloudy Wednesday afternoon. She hopes if it rains, Mother Nature gets it out of her system for the special week ahead. 
The young woman sits in the LaFor­tune Student Center on the Notre Dame campus. Her large eyes glow, pouring pride and love for a man who has made it. 
She tells how her brother's experi­ence got her involved in Special Olym­pics. "He was dragging in last place in a Special Olympics run when a Buffalo Bill Football player went onto the field and prompted him to the finish line," she said. "He was dead last, but after­wards he became determined to win. And our family became devoted to Spe­cial Olympics as he started winning his races." 
As far back as Karen Siegel can re­member, she says her brother was a happy child who had difficulty with lan­guage and math skills. There was but one major problem for Fred. "All of us kids had something that gave us iden­tity. I had my violin and my sisters had softball, volleyball, and horseback riding. Fred needed something of his own to channel his hyperactivity," Karen reflects. 
Fred became interested in running and swimming at age nine. Workshops for the mentally handicapped raised his confidence and his abilities in athletic competition. "When that football star urged him to succeed that day, and he succeeded, Fred realized he had some­thing special and he grew to excel as a runner in Special Olympics competi­tion." 
The man became "Fast Freddy" as his growing number of fans watched him pull himself together and tackle the games. The Buffalo, N.Y., man took third place in the one-mile run at local games in 1980. He finished first in that competition in the Erie County Games in 1981 and captured second place in the event at the New York State Games in 1983. 
He then topped that same year off by taking the gold medal at the Baton Rouge International Summer Special Olympics in the 1500 meter run. Now, Freddy is a Buffalo celebrity at local civic runs and sporting events. 
Karen Siegel is impressed with her brother's victory in sport and in spirit. He returns to the International Games Friday as a bugger. The twenty-three year old will be here to support his fel­low athletes, to pass on the love of his supporters, through himself, to fellow athletes like his friend John. 
Karen has been coming to South Bend from Chicago almost every weekend for the past few years. She is venue manager for canoeing and other events at the 1987 International Summer Spe­cial Olympics Games. Venue managers are in charge of specific activity sites at the Games. 
"Preparing for the games has been consumptive but enjoyable." The campus is familiar. Karen graduated from Saint Mary's College two years ago with an accounting degree and ex­perience as a crew rower and coach. She is currently on leave from her auditing job at I.C. Industries for the Games. 
The Games are fun for all Fred's fam­
ily. Karen tells how she and her twin 
sisters, Colleen and Catherine, became 
involved with Special Olympics. They 
ran with him on the high school track 
near their house. They survived the ex­
ercise in a pony express fashion, divid­
ing his long distances by multiples of 
three and alternating as his com­panions, coaching and hugging along the way. 

All the sisters became volunteers with Special Olympics, Karen just a bit more so. Her parents, Fred and Cath­erine, became members of the New York State Games and will be volun­teers at the summer games. 
"My sisters catft make it to the games, but the rest of us will celebrate this Notre Dame event together. We all love coming here for football and other Irish events. Being here at Notre Dame makes the '87 Special Olympics even more special for us." 
The sky through the windows is dark. It will rain. 
Karen exudes thoughts. She com­ments that Special Olympics gives the mentally handicapped the break needed for self-confidence through pos­itive competition with peers. "They learn athletic skills and self-esteem of­ten unattainable in the mainstream," Karen said. ''However, they learn skills and a positive attitude that can be in­terfaced with the mainstream as they grow." Special Olympics is one way the mentally handicapped can reach the light in the darkness. 
Fred Siegel is proud of himself, loved by family and friends, recognized by the public, and is rewarded in his work at Goodwill Industries in Buffalo ­feelings everyone wants. Feelings his sister shows as she talks about her life and Special Olympics. 
Those dark clouds rained down hard on South Bend and Notre Dame Wed­nesday night. Whatever the weather, sunshine will warm the campus next week as Fast Freddy and worldwide friends, hosts and volunteers like his sister have fun. 
A gymnast spends some time Friday warming up on the pommel horse. Gymnastic events begin today with a 


The Observer 
ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987 -page 6 


Celebrity-filled cast to host ceremonies 
By PATTI TRIPATHI "But," says Miller, "the stadium is just Observer Staff a bigger stage without a roof." The weather is a big factor, he says.The 1987 International Summer Spe­The open-air stadium will echo the 
cial Olympics will be mixing the stars rhythmic voices of Up With Peopleof the stage with the stars of the Games singers with the collMnencement of the as celebrities ands athletes alike par­Opening Ceremonies. Composer John ticipate participate in the opening Williams will conduct the Navy Band. ceremonies. ABC-TV is taping the show Representing 125 delegates, 6,000 olym­for broadcast on Monday. pians will march in precision. Organ­"We chose all the performers and tal­ized by Radio Music Hall Productions, ents," says Lee Miller, an independent a magnificent cast of over 600 members producer who will be editing the of drill team, marching band, flag unit, opening ceremonies for ABC. and jazzercize will march and dance in 
With a cast of numerous well-known cadence onto the field. , celebrities, Barbara Mandrell will host "The momentum and enthusiasm is r the show which begins at 5 p.m. Sunday building," says Deana Sterr, the exec­r in the Notre Dame Stadium. Whitney utive producer of Radio Music Hall r Houston and John Denver will also give Productions. According to Sterr, the r star performances. memers of the parading performers r "We went first to major stars that were selected from the South Bend and r have supported Special Olympics" to surrounding area after several tryouts 
recruit them for the Games, says Mil­and cuts. ler. Clint Eastwood and John Ritter are "The community has really opened two supporters of Special Olympics that their arms and supported it (Special will be attending the 1987 Games, ac­Olympics) wholeheartedly," says cording to Miller. Sterr. 
"We chose Barbara Mandrell (to A class of '85 graduate of Notre Dame host) , " says Miller. "I think she is an and a producer of Radio Music Hall incredibly good performer. She is a Productions, Mark Serrano says, very emotional, sensitive woman,'' "There are a number of exciting mo­says Miller. Mandrell was also chosen ments and plenty of surprises." because of her enormous television fol­A performance by Chinese Acrobats lowing. of Beijing, a message by Eunice 
"Whitney Houston was approached Shriver, the founder and the chairper­long before us," says Miller. "John Den­son of the Special Olympics games, and ver came in because we wanted to bal­other surprising elements are on the ance out the two women (Whitney agenda for the four-hour show. Houston and Barbara Mandrell)." The show will broadcast 8 p.m. Mon­
"We're going to shoot like a live day, August 3. It will also include a pre­show,'' says Miller. Although Miller has taped message by President Reagan. produced Oscars, Emmys, and "''It's a scary task," says Miller, who People's Choice, he has never produced will have to edit the lengthy tape down an event like the Special Olympics. to two hours in less than 23 hours. 
r 
r 
'r 
~. 

Some track and field athletes take ad­vantage of a chance to get in some early 
The ObserveriFred Dobie practice Friday. Trials begin today in the athletics events at Cartier Field. 


The Observer 
ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 7 
The doctor's bicycle serves many at Games 
By TRIPP BALTZ Observer Staff 
A seat on the front of his bike has 
carried friends, family and even 
patients. 
Critical transportation for a member 
of the Summer Games medical corps, 
the bike helps him get around quickly 
and easily. 
South Bend Dr. Dick Reineke has worked with local Special Olympics for 12 years. He has a mentally retarded son. 
He laughs when he recalls how the St. Joseph Board of Directors for Spe­cial Olympics attracted the VII Inter­national Games to come to the area. 
"We got them here, and everyone else has to do the work," he says. 
As he bikes by the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, onlookers wave and shout "Reineke! " 
He smiles. "They never say Dr. Reineke, just Reineke." He explains he's noticed that people associated with Special Olympics are more friendly and sincere. 
"That's what I like about it," he adds. 
Reineke oversees the medical sta­tions in the athletics and soccer areas, one of the most concentrated regions of activity. He parks his bike near the tent where Pat McQuaid is the coord­inator. 
"We're in charge of reception and evaluation of patients," McQuaid ex­plains. Stretchers, bandages and other supplies fill the tables under the tent. McQuaid will spend one day as a site coordinator at one of 22 stations scat­tered across the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Each medical volunteer might be as­signed to work just once or all week. A total of 60 doctors and 300 emergency medical technicians, or nurses, have of­iered their skills for the Games. 
"More than we need have volun­
teered," said Pete Wolmer, co­
coordinator of medical services. 
"We're responsible for the health of the 
athletes, the coaches, the spectators 
and the volunteers," Wolmer states. 
"We're gonna make sure they have 
the best coverage we can supply, medi­
cal wise." 

The heat is one of Wolmer's primary 
concerns. "We've got two tons of ice to 
alleviate heat problems." 

The stations are equipped to treat minor cases. "Bumps, bruises, and abrasions will come our way," Wolmer· says. Patients with more serious injur­ies will be taken to local hospitals. 
The South Bend Fire Department and private ambulance services have con­tributed equipment and personnel for­emergency transport. "A minimum of two ambulances will be present at spe­cial events," Wolmer says. 
"We hope the ambulance drivers will just be able to enjoy themselves and watch the event," he adds. "But if something happens, we want to be prepared." 
The staff at the main medical facility in the ROTC building is prepared to dis­patch health care where it's needed. The physicians and nurses at the field sites can reach main medical by a tem­porary radio unit filling an office. 
The room hums with shortwave chat­ter and the flux of doctors, nurses and drivers. The man busy at the microp­hone receives a call from the Joyce Ath­letic and Convocation Center. 
An unconcious diabetic needs imme­diate attention. The dispatcher sum­mons an ambulance team. 
Quickly they run for their vehicle and drive off, lights blazing. 

The Observer/Fred Dobie 

First Aid personnel are standing by this dispatched from their base at the ROTC week to provide speedy assistance building. Story at left. when needed. Medical teams will be 

l!i Family 

The 1987 International Special Olympics 
Soaps., Salads., Appetizers., Desserts 
Unique Sandwich Menu: 
Beer aad Wine Casual Atmosphere
•Italian 
sausage •Gyros 

•Italian 
meatball • Croissants PLUS: 


•Beef and company •Old Chicago FootbaU Catering (TaUgaters) 3footor6footSaadwicbes
• and many more! 
Meat and Cheese Trays Special Bo:aed Laaches 
Large Screen Satellite TV 
University Center 6502 Grape Road Mishawaka 277-7273 
Located south of Service Merchandise 
Mon-Thurs 11:30-10:00 Fri-Sat 11:30-11:00 Sunday 12:00-10:00 
1 
""1,
.,
, 
1
, 
1 
1 
~ 
1 1
,
,
,
,
, 
1 
,~ 

A Hero's 

, 
r 
f 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 



-
elcome 


® 




-
The Observer ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987 -page 10 
'"-• 

An empty Notre Dame The Observer/Jim Carroll the crowds for tomorrow's opening ABC-TV for national broadcast Monday ceremonies. The show will be taped by night. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
I  ~.  I  
~  ~  ~  
~  ~  
~  Flowers & Gifts  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~ ~ 1  Share our pride in Special Olympics with a floral tribute that  ~ II  
~ I ~  says you care enough to send the very best.  ~ ~I  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  Fresh & Silk Flowers  ~  
~  Fine Gifts  ~  
~  Lindt Swiss Chocolate  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  54 N. St. Joseph  ~  
~  Niles, MI  ~  
~  ~~~7  ~  
~  across {rom Pawating Hospital  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  

Mayor welcomes athletes 
and welcome them to South Bend and wish them good luck." 
The Mayor's office has been busy pre­paring for the event. "The people are ready to go and there is a festive mood about the Games." 
Much cleaning of streets and paving of streets has been done around the city, said Parent. "A lot of fixing up of old things were done to make the city spic and span." 
The impact on the community "will be financially and spiritually reward­ing," said Parent. 
The Games are a chance for the com­munity to show off America and be proud of the experience, said Parent. "This type of event does not come along very often." 
Mayor Parent has cleared his schedule to devote all his work to the Special Olympics. "I am eager to get out and get involved with events," said Parent. 
"There is a community high and a good feeling in the air for the Games," said Parent. 
INTERNATIONAL 
1 • 9 • 8 • 7 
SUMMER 
~-~ 
..,. 
mr
.. SPECIAL OLYMPICS G A M E S® 
By JUDY MOLNAR Observer staff 

"I am looking forward to extending a welcome to all the Special Olym­pians," said Mayor Roger Parent of South Bend. 
Parent was enthusiastic about the Games finally arriving. His Friday morning began by greeting the Kenya delegation in his office. During the meeting he gave them a key to the city and they exchanged plaques. "This is the fun part of the job," said Parent. 
Mayor Parent will appear at the torch run, host the first ladies of the countries participating and attend several dinners with officials. The reception for for Chairperson Eunice Kennedy Shriver is also included on the Mayor's agenda. 
After Parent's official appearances he plans to record events on campus with his camera. Parent said, "I hope to go out to meet the Special Olympians 
Opening 
continued from page 1 

doing." Lyletta Robinson, a Lake For­est sophmore home for the summer, agreed and said, "being part of this community I felt it was time to give of myself while enjoying myself also." 
Despite the many hours of dedicated practice, performing in front of such a crowd will cause its share of opening night jitters. Lisa Sager of South Bend said, "I'm not nervous right now. The group is well rehearsed and works great together as a team. But, at around 5:57 on Sunday, in front of all the people and the cameras, I might feel a little differently." 



l'llcleel-11.....
IIIII a.r, ca. 
o.~..,,a_ 
~~

(!!'{!" I•Lt.f·'''''"'
,.,...,. 






The Observer 
Zimbabwe delegates participate in Games 
By KIM YURATOVAC 
Observer Staff 
It took them over fifty hours, four connecting flights and a bus ride to get them here, but the Zimbabwe Special Olympics delegation finally arrived in South Bend Monday evening. The delegation, consisting of three swim­mers, seven track and field athletes, two coaches and two officials, traveled with Olympians from Kenya and Tan­zania on special flights donated by Pan Am Airlines. 
They left a Zimbabwean winter and arrived in the middle of the hot South Bend summer. Zimbabwe, located south of the equator, is in the iniddle of a typically dry, mild winter. 
''The delegation was surprised at how humid it is here," said Zimbabwe live­in host Brian Beutter. "One of the coaches hadn't seen rain in over a year. The athletes aren't accustomed to the humidity. It took them a while to adjust. But the runners found it easier to run here because the altitude is much lower here than in Zimbabwe.'' 
Beutter, a senior industrial engineer­ing major at Purdue University, did not know much about Zimbabwe before he became involved with the International Summer Special Olympic Games. 
"I wanted to get involved with an English-speaking nation and I was as­signed to Zimbapwe," said Beutter. "We had information sessions and I started writing to the head of the delegation in June. I did some research at the library to find out more about their culture." 
Zimbabwe, formerly the British colony of Rhodesia, gained its indepen­dence only seven years ago. Special Olympics was introduced there in Sep­. Team members spent their first three nights at the Fatima Retreat Center amd have since moved into Pasquerilla East Hall along with Special Olympians from Turkey, YugoslB;via, Panama, Singapore and the United States. 
tember,  1986.  This  is  the  first  
International  Games  in  which  they  
have participated.  

"I think the athletes are enjoying themselves here," Beutter said. "They like to watch American television and they really enjoyed going to University Park Mall. They don't have the variety we have here. They were amazed at all the different brands of products we have here because they only have one brand of everything.'' 
Beutter said that one of the biggest problems the athletes are having is ad­justing to the time difference. "They have been going to sleep really early because they're still on Zimbabwe time," he said. "They have also been really busy.'' 
On Friday, team members were filmed by ABC television crews to be aired on August 15 in a Special Olym­pics program. 
Team members are participating in various events. Since most of them have never seen snow, Red Lobster is sponsoring a "Snow Fest on Monday at the Expo Center at Saint Mary's Col­lege so that they, and other athletes from warmer climates can learn how to ski. 
"The athletes are excited to be here," said Beutter. "One of our athletes, Net­sai Kamuzangaza, will even represent the continent of Africa at the Opening Ceremonies. They have all been prac­ticing a lot and are ready and excited about competing." 
Halla 
ISSOG Issue Saturday, AuFt 1, 1987 -page 11 
-
Musicians join the countless other en-Ceremonies will be televised nationally tertainers and volunteers preparing for by ABC on Monday, August 2. the Opening Ceremonies. The The Observer 

-ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 12 
Welcome•Willkommen•Dobro Nam DoSii 
By SARA MARLEY Observer staff 
"I'm going to practice on my team," responded Mike Brownstein when asked about his preparation to act as live-in host of the Japanese delegation of the International Summer Special Olympics Games. 
"I plan on carrying a dictionary," an­swered Kathy Scarbeck, host of the Austrian delegation. 
Brownstein and Scarbeck are two of approximately four hundred volunteers serving in the language services under director Kevin Hughes. Hughes has been working on interpreting and trans­lating services on the organizational and recruiting levels for several months. He appointed Ramzi Bualuan to captain the three groups of language services volunteers. 
Live-in hosts fluent in the languages of the delegations have been assigned to each of the seventy-two groups. This first group of language volunteers will eat and live with their delegations, as well as escort the athletes to their events and to social functions when they are not competing. 
"We'll be with them twenty-four hours a day," says Scarbeck. Because of their constant contact with the ath­letes, hosts will also handle the majority of the interpreting for them. The live-in hosts will also act as mem­bers of their delegations by marching in with them during Sunday's Opening Ceremony. 
Hughes, assisted by Professor Emeritus Charles Parnell, was able to locate live-in hosts and interpreters for every language that will be spoken. A few languages, such as Greek, Turkish, and Hindi, proved to. be more difficult to locate than others. Problems might also arise from numerous dialects and notify the large pool of interpreterswithin various languages and the of their assignments. speech impediments of some athletes. In addition to the interpreters and It is possible that members within cer­"Flying Squad" members regularly as­tain delegations will not be able to com­signed to ·each event, some language 
municate with each other. Some volun­services volunteers will be "rovers," teers with exceptional ability were helping to direct athletes and coaches found. For a member of the throughout campus. The rovers will singing group ' People" Whicb carry beepers 'SO they can be notified will perform at si~ ·· if the need for their services arises at 
different tribal · event. 
,. ·nuQ.JLuQ.u noted, "Everything is com­
for quick access.'' Members 
"Flying Squad" and interpreters 
r~adily identified by their red 
s~ating the languages they 
before Austrian host Scar­
arrived, she was 
possibility of a language 
last think I want to do is 
· ble to communicate with the 
.. .. "'~"'"'· They are the people I want to 
get Jrivolved with and tell how proud I 
amof them," Scarbeck said though 
the ath-

The " d have a hundred alf hour phon~""conversation in Ger­tional proficiency · nd irector of said Bualuan. A . Scarbeck 
Interpreters eiitm Innsbruck, members· .. ... .Austria, and...found .that.-her German events and ti his . ®'I' e back in a rush." assistant, C -·• luan expects most coaches will tending tbe ' •• ble to speak English, but meetings to determine where there will Brownstein is prepared to use his Jap­be special needs for interpreters. Such anese. "I am pretty certain not many needs may include disputes over rules, of them will speak English or they will large numbers of athletes and coaches just be able to get by," he said of the attending events as spectators, or even twenty-two Japanese coaches who will political differences between teams. accompany the athletes. 
Bualuan and Neidhoefer will com-Brownstein had a particularly good municate these demands, both foreseen idea of what to prepare for because he and emergency, to fellow assistant tan-was able to meet the director of his guage services captain Connie Lee, who delegation, Dr. Suzuki, who included is stationed in the Center for Continuing Notre Dame among his stops during a Education. Lee will dispatch volunteers trip to the United States about a month prior to the Games. Brownstein showed Suzuki the campus and was impressed with the director's English and creden­tials. The trip was especially beneficial, according to Brownstein, because "Now he knows what to expect," espe­cially in terms of weather. 
A deficiency in spoken English wouldn't trouble Belgian native Gudrun Rawoens, serving as a live-in host for Belgium. She has been studying at In­diana University this summer to im­prove her English. Rawoens is sharing the duties as live-in host with Joy Smith, a Notre Dame student who spent last year studying in Angers, France. Smith explained that Belgium has been as­signed two live-in hosts because it is one of the largest delegations with over seventy athletes plus their coaches. 
The language barrier poses no prob­lem to the co-hosts, as both are fluent in French and Rawoens also speaks Flemish, an additional language spoken in Belguim. Neither does the size of the delegation trouble the pair. 
"I have a lot of help," Smith pointed out. "I think I can face it," agreed Rawoens. 
Many of the language services volun­teers were attracted by the interna­tional flavor of the Games and have little or no previous experience with Special Olympics, but are excited about the possibility of sharing their skills. According to Scarbeck, a Notre Dame student ,native of So~ Bend, and five­year student of German, "It just felt like a natural." 
Like many other language services volunteers, Scarbeck spent time abroad and is looking forward to paying back cultural debts. "When I was m Austria for a year, people were hosting me. all the time. I want to show the Austrians my country. Now the shoe is on the other foot." 

A .......01 fttl SIMS FINANCIAL N!TWOAK 

''We salute the victors and applaud all those who have the courage to join the race'' 
REALESTATE 
SPECIAUSTS, INC. 
70 East Main Street 
River Front Square 
Niles, Ml 49120 
(616) 683-4507 


~­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 13 
-

Trading team pins invites new friendships 
By JUDY MOLNAR Observer Staff 
"Trading pins is fun because you get a chance to meet people from other countries," said David Hines from the North Carolina delegation. 
The system for trading pins or but­tons is simple if you have a supply before you come to compete. Many of the athletes are supplied with pins that have a range of designs from rainbows with the state's name to the shapes of their countries 
Arizona has 75 athletes competing in the Games, and they have come sup­plied to trade with everyone. One of their pins is in the shape of their state, and the other has a colorful rainbow and trees. 
Members of the delegation did men­tion they have a secret trade item they are saving for the closing ceremonies. 
Mary Kendall who is traveling with the Green Bay, Wisconsin delegation made sure the athletes were well sup­plied to trade pins. Kendall has been involved with Special Olympics since 1968. 
When trading the pins it is to one's advantage to get as many different types to create a great collection. The more pins a person has, the more in­teresting the collecting process. 
Collecting the pins gets difficult when the turn over in trading new pins is so quick. One may make a trade and a few minutes later find himself trading that same pin for another. 
Language does not seem to be a prob­lem during the International Games. The simple gesture of pointing to an­other's pins gets the trading started. 
"I have no problem trading. Right when we got here my athletes traded pins for a necklace from the Japan delegation," said Johnny Hines, the vol­leyball coach for the North Carolina delegation. 
The trading process is simple for anyone wishing to participate, as long as the few pins you start with are visible. 
San Marino athletes are supplied with buttons and are eager to trade though they do not understand or speak any English. 


Trading of items will become more interesting as the athletes gain more exposure to one another. By the closing ceremonies, uniforms and most every­thing else will be fair game to trade. 
By trading pins, everyone can have the unique opportunity to learn about one another and their representative home states or countries. 
Zoneball to be exhibition sport 
By LIZ PANZICA Observer staff 
At this year's International Summer Special Olympics Games, Circular Zoneball will be introduced as an ex­hibition sport. 
Thirty South Bend area Special Olympians not particapating in the In­ternational Games are demonstrating Zoneball each day at Saint Mary's. A videotape is also set up for viewing at the game site. 
Zoneball creator, David King, will be on h!ind throughout the Games to promote the event. If Zoneball is adopted by 16 state chapters, it can be introduced as a regular event in years to come. 
Zoneball is designed so that there is no physical contact between players. "I started with the concept that the world needs a sport with all the posi­tives," said King. There is little advan­tage given to large, strong or fast players. The advantage lies with the team that learns to function well as a unit. 
The game is played by two teams of 12 players each. Playing time is one hour, which is divided into three 20­minute periods with five-minute breaks between each period. 
Zoneball is played on a circle 154 feet in diameter and divided into 24 zones. 
Each player must stay within his or her zone. The object of the game is for players to pass the ball to the teammate located in the innermost zone. 
Deborah Foust, a Zoneball coach, said Zoneball is easy for Special Olym­pians to learn because "they aren't in­timidated (by other players) because they stay in their zones. All the athletes I have instructed have taken to it really ·,..well so far." 
Circular Zoneball is played with a stratball. A stratball is about the size of a volleyball but it is covered with a dimpled surface for easy gripping. 
King said, "you don't need to be an outstanding athlete to excell at Zone ball." ···u exercises the mind and body at a pace they (Special athletes) are able to handle. Anyone who plays loves it." 
There may be some changes in store for Zoneball, however, if it is adopted as an official Special Olympic sport. According to Coach Foust, the game might be easier to play if the size of the zones were changed from eight feet to six feet. King said that a smaller field could be designed to use at Special Olympics officials' discrection and that right now he is working with officials to develop rules and regulations for Zoneball if it is adopted as an official sport. 
HE'S AN ATHLETE. HE'S AN OLYMPIAN. AND HE'S A HERO. 
The Knights of Columbus is proud to be part of the Special Olympics. We're proud of each of the heroic athletes who are participating in the Summer Games. 
The K of C helps out in lots of ways. \Ve're coordinating the volunteer involvement of nearly 5,000 K of C members and their families ... contributing a quarter million dollars as a Principal Sponsor ... arranging housing in the South Bend area for athletes' families ... and recruiting more than 1,200 vol­unteers for the opening ceremonies of the '87Games. We're also pleased to have provided the printing of 25,000 copies of a commemorative poster I by noted artist John L. Terelak. .1 
The Knights of Columbus is a 
.I 
I

Catholic, family, fraternal benefit society with 1.4 million dues-paying members worldwide. 
, 

The Knights of Columbus works this hard because we believe volunteers make a big difference in the Games ... and the world. 
That's why the Knights' donated 21 million man-hours to community service and made $67 million worth of charitable disbursements last year. ($11.3 million of that total benefitted programs for mentally 
retarded citizens.) 
It's why the Knights received the President's Volunteer Action Award from President Reagan for "Mobilization 
of Volunteers." 
And it's why we're proud to be part of the Summer Games. 
-----~----~--------------~-~---------------~---............
-----------~·~~---~-­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 14 
Agencies give 
exlra support 
to ND Security 
By JIM RILEY Observer Staff 
City, county, and state police along with federal agencies have joined with Notre Dame Security to monitor the In­ternational Summer Special Olympics Games this week. 
''Several agencies will be assisting Security to provide additional patrols on the roads adjacent to campus," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Se­curity. No changes in jursidictions have been made, however, because the juris­dictions of outside agencies already overlap that of Notre Dame Security. 
Security is closing some sections of road around campus and is moving its "checkpoints" to locations further from campus. 
Notre Dame Avenue will be closed at Angela and a checkpoint will be estab­lished there so that the main gate is essentially moved further down the road, Johnson said. 
Juniper Rd., which was renamed Olympic Drive during the Games, will be closed north of Edison. Another Se­curity checkpoint will be established at Olympic Dr. and Bulla. 
"We need to do everything we can to enhance pedestrian safety," Johnson said. He added that athletes and visitors, many of whom are not at all familiar with the area, would be spared having to deal with the heavy vehicular traffic which is common on those roads. Most athletes will have to cross Olym­pic Dr. to move between their dorms and athletic sites. 
Vehicles on official business will be allowed throught the checkpoints, while most traffic will be channeled into 

After traveling thousands of miles, many Special Olympians enjoy relaxing in the summer sun Green Field. 

Visit the Exhibition THE SECOND DECADE, 1946-1955 photographs from LIFE magazine The Snite Museum of Art, Univerisity of Notre Dame (directly north of the stadium's west parking lot) Special Olympic museum hours: Saturday, Aug. 1 ­10 a.m. -4 p.m. Sunday, Aug. 2 ­Closed Monday, Aug. 3 thru Saturday, Aug. 8 ­10 a.m. -4 p.m. An exhibition organized and circulated by the International Center of Photography. this exhibition is jointly sponsored by Time Inc .. and United Technologies. The Mlchlana showing of the exhibition has been underwritten by Pat and Art Declo.  

_I 
------· 
-

The Observer ISSOG Issue Saturday, August 1, 1987-page 15 
Smiles are seen on the faces of many participants who are eagerly anticipat­ing this week's competition. There are 

Need cash quick? Use your Cirrus card at the St. joe Bank ADVANTAGE 24 Hour Banking locations listed below-or at any Cirrus location, nationwide! 
South Bend Town & Country Office 3617 E. McKinley Avenue
Mlchlana Regional Airport Western Avenue Office 4854 Western Avenue 
Portage Place Portage Avenue at 
Mishawaka
Cleveland Road French Toast, 
Mishawaka OfficeRiver Glen Office 
401 Uncolnway West Eggs Benedict,Columbia & Monroe 
Streets University Park Office Prime Rib, Swordfish, State Road 23 at 
Roseland Office Chicken Teriyaki, 
Cleveland Road 
Athletes register with 
the help of 
By CATHY STACY Observer staff 
The numerous pins that adorn Sally Keller and Betty Nagle testify to the commotion they have faced while directing more than 90 delegations through the registration desk at the Center for Continuing Education. 
As members of the Southhold Chapter of the American Business Womens As­sociation, these volunteers have "handled the responsibility from the start" to make sure that the athletes and coaches would be provided with rooms, meal tickets and proper identi­fication. 
"It has been fun to get the packets all ready in March and now complete the job. Ithas made it interesting," said Keller. "You don't stay too long at one thing," said Nagle, running to get someone the information he needed. 
The job of preparing the forms that they use for registration, as well as those for housing and medical needs, began as early as last November. For 
The Observer-suzanne Poch 

plenty of events and activities to please everyone attending the Games. 
volunteers 
member Phyllis Thompson, this has meant over 500 hours spent attending meetings and contacting all delegations via mail. 
"Because each delegation's repre­sentative has brought his own inter­preter with him to register, the only problems right now have been getting the athlete's families registered," said Keller. 
Poland's team is scheduled to arrive at four o'clock this morning, though most of the registering has been han­dled between the hours of 7 a.m. and midnight. "Friday was a bit calmer than Thursday," said Keller. 
For Norway's team the trip to In­diana took over 27 hours, including a 
•

four hour lay over in Detroit. ''You hear stories Oike that) over and over again," she said. 
For these volunteers, the task has been demanding but very rewarding as well. "It's been a good feeling, " said Keller, "We've learned a lot during the past two days." 
I 
Every Sunday, 

11:00 a.m. to 2:00p.m. 
California Fruiti Pastry 
& Sa ad Bar 
By itself... $495 w/entree... 
szso 






tQ
,....., 
~ 
cu 
0. 
~ 
,....., 
,....., 
..... 
<ll 
6'o 
~ ~ 
'E 
~ 
t/) 
(I) 
~ 
<ll 
...... 0 
0 
~ 
...... 
I 
u ~ 

~ 
:.i!ltl:hikji...j.:i 
[1oo·rI [ '?J I
tennis bus stop family oeote, lofo<matloooeote<['?-'C. Iathletl,; [ & loyollog gymnastics ~ wftball 
~ 

[~ Ibasketball g]d'""9 I-T-1 mllmkallog 6 swimming [~\\' I'"lleyball [!]'""eocye"haoge [±]fl,tald [lfff] olymplotowo 
~

[.~I bowllog I~ I [ .?'-] '"""' [ ~ ] table teoo;, [TIwelghtllftlog expo center [QTil food & be'e<age' [1 •1] po'toffloe~~@'®eque,t<lao e'e"" 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
1. 
LeMans Hall 1 [!]wheelohal< e'e"" IIf 1] '""'eol" f-----l bu,loop 

2. 
Haggar College Center 

3. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 

4. 
Augusta Hall 

5. 
Holy Cross Hall 

6. 
McCandless Hall 

7. 
Regina Hall 

8. 
Angela Athletic Facility 

9. 
Dining Hall 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
10. Carroll Hall 
~ ~ 
11 . Holy Cross Hall ~ u 
12. 
Rockne Memorial 

13. 
Lyons Hall 

14. 
Morrissey Hall 


~ts/
15. Howard Hall 
Douglas Road 
16. South Dining Hall 17. F1sher Hall 
~7 
18. 
Pangborn Hall 

19. 
Badin Hall 

20. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


d~~')~ ~Bf'~ 
21. 
Dillon Hall 

22. 
Alumni Hall 


3;v
23. 
Walsh Hall 

24. 
Sorin Hall I 

25. 
Lewis Hall I 


I I
26. 
LaFortune Student Center 

27. 
St. Edward·s Hall 


I
28. Cavanaugh Hall 
I 
29. 
Zahm Hall I 

30. 
Keenan Hall 

31. 
Stanford Hall 

32. 
North Dining Hall 

33. 
Farley Hall 


* 

34. 
Breen-Philips Hall 

35. 
Stepan Center 

36. 
Flanner Hall 

37. 
Grace Hall 


'•

38. 
Pasquerilla Hall West 

39. 
Pasquerilla Hall East 

40. 
Notre Dame Stadium 

41. 
Athletic and Convocation Center (ACC) 

42. 
Rolfs Aquatic Center 

43. 
Cartier Field 


~

44. 
Courtney Tennis Fields 

45. 
Jake Kline Field 

46. 
Memorial Library 


.

47. Decio Building 
/L~J
48. Snite Museum of Art 
0 

..!...• 
.,.I
49. Engineering Building 
....~
~ " z ~ 
§ •• o.--. ~

50. Center for Continuing Education 
G

51. University Club 
; CHIPPEWA­

---::</L$_j I
52. Alumni/Senior Club 
I 
-BOWL* 
V ! I L A N D 

• 0
53. Morris Inn I"-. 
f:::___ ~ lflli 
54. Alumni Field 
Jun,pet Road 

0 
z
~<o"> .,.,r.

55. Sacred Heart Church 
~~ ~•.. 

~ 
0 0
56. Washington Hall 
c
57. ROTC Building 
~ 

mCflE
58. 
Church of Loretto 

59. 
Post Office 


[8)FAlR 

... 
u 
t: 
u 
II> 
0 ~ 
u 
..c E­
.. j' 
,I 




