
Domer dictionary -page 13 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 22, 1987
VOL. XXI, NO. 1 
the independent student ne\\spaper sening ~otre Dame and Saint .\far~\ 

Class of 1991 
More than 500 SMC freshmen are expected 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Saint Mary's Editor 
They come from five foreign countries and 34 states. 
Half were in the top 20 percent of their graduating high-school class. Almost a third were in the National Honor Soci­ety. 
Saint Mary's Class of 1991 has ar­rived. 
More than 500 freshmen began the first of four years at Saint Mary's this weekend, said Mary Ann Rowan, direc­tor of admissions. 
The Class of 1991 "seems so eager and excited to be at Saint Mary's," Rowan said. "I don't remember experi­encing such enthusiasm." 
Sixty-two percent of the freshmen are in the top three-quarters of their high­school graduating class, Rowan said. 
There are 160 students, about 32 per­cent of the class, who are former mem­bers of the National Honor Society, she said. 
England, Panama, China, Hong Kong and India are the five countries represented in the freshman class, Rowan said. 
Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio carry the largest number of students, "but there are strong numbers from Minnesota, Pennsylvania, New York and Wisconsin," Rowan said. 
Thirty percent of the class are ''alumnae related,'' which includes any type of connection to the school, Rowan said. These connections include cousins, daughters, sisters, and nieces. 
"The solid percentage of alumnae­related incoming students clearly indi­
First glimpse
cates that families are happy with Saint Mary's," Rowan said. 
•

arr1ves on campus 

It may have been an exciting view from the highway, but the Administration see SMC, page 6 Building's Golden Dome will soon become a common sight. 
Record number of women arrive at NO 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Managing Editor 
They're heeeere. And apparently in record numbers. 
More women and minority students than ever before are expected to enter Notre Dame as freshmen this year, said Kevin Rooney, director of undergradu­ate admissions at Notre Dame. 
About 670 of the 1,820 students ex­pected are women, Rooney said. 
"This is the larg~st contingent of freshman women that Notre Dame has ever had," he said. "If the Saint Mary's freshmen were added in, it would come to an even ratio (of men to women)." 
About 180 members of the Class of 1991 are minority students, Rooney said. About 4 percent are hispanic, 4 percent black, 2 percent Asian and less than 1 percent American Indian. 
"For the first time, 10 percent of the freshmen are minority students," he said. 
Last year about 520 of the 1,830 in­coming freshmen were women, while about 150 were minority students. 
This year's incoming class "is every bit as strong as classes of recent years," Rooney said. 
Thirty-five percent of incoming freshmen ranked in the top five in their graduating high school class, 80 percent were in the top 10 percent and 94 per­cent in the top 20 percent, according to Notre Dame's 1987-88 Fact Sheet. 
The class's median Scholastic Apti­tude Test score is 580 verbal, 660 math­ematics, the fact sheet states. 
About 3,100 of the 7,985 students who applied to Notre Dame were accepted, Rooney said. Of those .expected to en-
see ND, page 6 

NO freshman's father
111 freshmen in study lounges 
killed in two-car crash 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
More than 100 Notre Dame freshmen have been assigned temporary housing in study lounges, according to the Office of Student Residences. 
At Saint Mary's, nine stu­dents were originally assigned to temporary housing, but were given permanent housing, said Pat Rissmeyer, director of residence life and housing at Saint Mary's. 
"We were Jble to move them out before thPir arrival on campus," she &aid. 
The 111 freshmen at Notre Dame have been assigned to study lounges in four halls on campus: 43 in Flanner, 42 in 

Grace,  and  13  each  in  
Pasquerilla  East  and  
Pasquerilla West.  

No students have been squeezed into permanent rooms in other dorms, the housing office said. In the past, for example, four students were placed in a triple. 
The students will be rel­ocated into permanent housing as soon as spaces become available. The spokesperson from the housing office said she had "no idea on a time frame." 
"Freshmen are just arriving now. We have no idea of how many no-shows there will be," she said. 
The overflow occurs in part because some freshmen decline their invitations, can­cel their confirmations, Or just don't show up. Some upperclas­smen will unexpectedly move off campus. 
Rissmeyer said that at Saint Mary's "it depends on the num­ber of students who decide at the last minute. Every year is a little different situation. 
"We may have as many as 15 or 20 change their minds," she added. 

Eighty-four Notre Dame freshmen began last year in temporary housing. There were 41 in lounges the year before. Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences at Notre Dame, said last year that the 84 students was the largest number in makeshift quarters that she could remem­ber in her 15 year tenure at Notre Dame. 
No Saint Mary's students were placed in temporary housing last year. 
A spokesperson also said that Student Residences had been forced to put freshmen in tem­porary quarters for a number of years at Notre Dame. 
Reinebold could not be reached for comment. 
Students in temporary housing will be assigned per­manent housing based on how early they turned in their en­rollment confirmations, the spokesperson said. 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Managing Editor 
The father of an incoming Notre Dame freshman was killed late Wednesday night in a two-car collision on Juniper Road. 
Thomas Naddy Sr., 65, the father of Thomas Naddy Jr., died of massive internal in­juries, said Cpl. Charles Feirrell, public information officer for the St. Joseph County Police. 
The woman driving the other car, Lynda Maike, 28, of Mishawaka, also suffered internal injuries, Feirrell said. 
Maike was admitted Wed­
nesday  into  the  intensive  
care  unit  of  St.  Joseph's  
Medical  Center  Feirrell  

said. Hospital administra­tors would not release any 
information about her condi­tion on Friday. 
Funeral services for Nad­dy, of Wailuku, Hawaii, will be held today in Chicago, said Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace Hall. A memorial service was held Thursday at the Grotto. 
Naddy was at Notre Dame to drop off his son, a Grace Hall freshman who had ar­rived early because he is an Air Force ROTC cadet, Lardner said. 
The accident occurred at about 11:10 p.m. as Naddy was driving south and Maike was heading north on Juniper Road, Feirrell said. The collision occurred in the northbound lane between Douglas Road and Pendle Street. 
see CRASH, page 7 

~----~---~--­
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987-page 2 

In Brief 
A new dean has been named for the College of Business Administration. Prof. Yusaku Furuhashi, cur­rently associate dean of the College, has agreed to accept the deanship while the committee which is searching for a replacement for Prof. Frank Reilly continues its work according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. Furuhashi ha~ served as acting dean on two previous occasions. Reilly, who has completed his term as dean, returns to full-tiime teaching and research this fall. -The Observer 
Beginning Ancient Greek students from 
Notre Dame have been awarded honors after competing in the National Greek Exam. All six of the six Notre Dame students who took the test, which was administered here, received honors. Theresa Rice, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, received highest honors, an award which went to only 3 percent of the applicants nationally. -The Observer 


Of Interest 
Marching band rehearsals for auditions will be held at 9:30a.m. and 1:30 p.m. today and 2 p.m. Sunday. A meeting for all new applicants to the band and their parents will be held today at 4:30 in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Directors and band members will speak, a videotape will be shown, and an informal reception will follow. New applicants are urged to report to the band room in Washington Hall whenever possible for registra­tion and rehearsals, or call the band office at 239-5054. ­
The Observer 

Enrollment for continuing students and freshmen will take place Monday, Aug. 24. Freshmen will enroll at Stepan Center between 8:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. All other continuing students will enroll in the south dome of the Joyce ACC between 8:30a.m. and 3:15p.m. Classes begin Tuesday, Aug. 25. -The Observer 
All classes are cancelled at Notre Dame Wednesday, Sept. 23 for the inauguration of Father Ed­ward Malloy as the University's 16th president. The Res­burgh Library will also be closed that day from 2-7 p.m. Inaugural ceremonies will include a mass at 10 a.m. in the Joyce ACC, an academic procession beginning at 2:15 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Mall, and an academic con­vocation at 3 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
A welcoming party for students interested in theater productions (actors, tech crew, publicity) will be held in the scenography lab of Washington Hall, Wednes­day, Aug. 26 at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The SAB is now the SUB. The Student Activities Board decided to change its name to the Student Union Board. The decision was made to avoid confusion with the Office of Student Activities. The latter is a branch of the Univer­sity administ~ati?n. The SUB is a student group which programs soc1al, mtellectual, and cultural activities. -The Observer 

Weather 
South Bend welcomes you with cloudy skies and a 40 percent chance for morning thundershowers, clearing in the afternoon. High in the upper 70s. Fair and cool in the evening. Low in the low to mid 50s. Mostly sunny and cool Sun­day. High in the mid 70s. -Associated 


Press 
Frustration, excitement mark students' first year 
It can all be quite overwhelming. 
The freshmen have all arrived at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and are now going through the brief weekend called orientation. Through the course of these two days, the new kids on the block are expected to meet a new room­mate, to get acquainted with the campus, to learn about life in college, to absorb all of the hype about getting involved and to say good-bye to the most important people in their lives ­their parents. 
Walking into this scene can be as intimidating as it is exciting; frustrating as it is interesting. Freshmen and parents alike should not let it get to them. 
I think back to three years ago when I pulled up on this campus with my parents, all of us seeing the Golden Dome for the first time in our lives. I was so anxious to get going and to get into life here that I forgot how much I was leaving behind at home, how much I knew I was going to miss my parents and friends who were to remain 1,000 miles away for my four years here. ... 
I very much wanted just to be dropped off and left alone with all of the new people in my life. I did not try to make my parents feel like they belonged here; I had lived with them for 18 years and thought that it was time for a change of scenery and a little more freedom. 
I look back now and see that I was foolish. I can look into the eyes of the parents walking across these campuses and see the faces of my father and mother three years ago. They did not like the idea of leaving their oldest child far away from his home. Even with all of the efforts Notre Dame and Saint Mary's put forth to make this weekend enjoyable for everyone, nothing could stop my parents from feeling like they were going to miss me. And I did not help matters because I wanted to play the tough guy and act like I belonged here from the start. 
A week after I watched my parents drive away, I missed them as I always knew I would but never wanted to admit. Mom and Dad were not here, and the tough guy they left behind was the same little boy they had always known. This world that I had always dreamt about was still a foreign place; I was more of a stranger than a Domer. 
Remember, freshmen, that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are not the stuff that dreams are made of, they are the places where dreams are made. You are just starting your life here and, I can almost assure you; it will be quite different than you expect. 
Many of you who have the intention of being doctors and engineers will be sitting with fellow Business and Arts and Letters majors in May 
Kevin Becker 
Editor-in-Chief 

of 1991. Rest assured, many upperclassmen have made that same decision and would never have it any other way. I am one of them. And this is just one example of how your life will change after some time in college. 
In the next four years you will make too many decisions to count and will go through more unimaginable crises and situations than you would like to think about at this point. 
So, what little advice I have to offer to the members of the Class of 1991 is simple. Do not be overwhelmed by the fantastic images you have of college right now. Grow to love this community for what it really is, not for what you think it might be. 
And take some time out from your frantic socializing and orienting to pay attention to your folks. They love you and you love them. Keep them up on your lives here and never forget how much they have given you. 
Finally, welcome to college. The Observer is looking forward to serving you almost every class day for the next four years. I, more than anything, cannot wait to see some of you up here in our offices helping to put out our news­paper -we need your talent, ideas and excite­ment. 
Enjoy yourself for the rest of the weekend and start holding on to the time you have here. For this senior, it flies by way too fast. 



\f+l~"co"'~o I sllcs'1uo~~'1s 
BANKING... ONCAMPUSATSMNTMARYS 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours· Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday-11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.  ~  source  
Join Michiana's 1st Team  ~Bank  
for unsurpassed banking service!  Member f.O.I.C.  


Design Editor .. . . . .. . . . . . . .. Melissa Warnke ........................................ Chris Donnelly .................................... Mark Mcluaghlin Design Assistant . .. .. . Mike Murdock Typesetters.................... . Shawn Sexton News Editor......................... Jim Riley Copy Editor ........... Anne Marie Durning Sports Copy Editor ....... Dennis Corrigan .........................................Marty Strasen 

Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Chris Murphy Accent Copy Editor ........ Kim Yuratovac ............................................. Pete Gegen Ad Design... .. .. .. .. .. .. . Anne Kelly .......................................... Megan Keane .......................................... Mike Whitton ......................................... Dave Culligan Photographer ................. Joann Whitfield 
Tile Oblerver (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tile Oblerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Oblerver is a member of Tile Aaoelaled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




Unity a goal of SMC government 
By SANDY CERIMELE Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Overall cohesiveness and unity among all organizations and student involvement are among the priorities of the Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment Association for the 87-88 academic year, according to SGA President Eileen Het­terich. 
SGA is comprised of three groups: Board of Governance, headed by Hetterich; Pro­gramming Board, under Vice President Smith Hashagen; and the Student Academic Council, directed by Vice Pres­ident Julie Parrish. 
Board of Governance is com­prised of the class and hall presidents and commissioners, according to Hetterich. "We deal mainly with policies, structure, rules and issues that come up during year," she said. "We hear proposals and present them to the adminis­tration in the students' inter­est." 
Hetterich said some of the past achievements of Board of Governance have been the al­teration of library hours and the parietal changes over the past 10 years. 
Programming Board, com­prised of the class and hall vice presidents and commissioners, is responsible for all events and programs such as dances, movies, and traditional events such as An Tostal, according to Hashagen. 
"We have developed a Stu­dent Activities Board under Janel Hamann and Halane Young that will be organizing a whole network of program­ming, utilizing all the campus facilities such as Haggar, the clubhouse and Angela," said Hashagen. 
She added that their office is in 307 Haggar College Center and that they are looking for new ideas to incorporate a diverse group of students. 
Another change to Program­ming Board is a Freshman Class Advisor who will assist the freshmen in programming class events, according to Has­hagen. 
Student Academic Council consists of a student represen­tative from each academic de­partment and representatives from departments such as the Library, Student Admissions and the Curriculum Commit­tee, according to Parrish. 
"Our main goal is to resolve the senior comp confusion by proposing a preparation out­
line which would be guided by a faculty advisor on a one-on­one basis," she said. 
TASte the ~rotnG of Romance..... 
Tue Special: All you con eat Sirloin Dinner Fondue Style 
Wed Special: All you con eat Seafood Dinner Fondue Style 
Thr Special: All you con eat Chicken Dinner Fondue Style 
Try our Chel's featured entrees Frrdoy and Saturday evenings 
•-Discount Coupon--
Thts coupon enlttles you to tour dollars off the total pnce 
of you dinner ltcket when ordenng lwo dtnners 
ThiS c:owon conrol be used wlh CX1Y olher pmmohonol oller and 
only ore c:owon per table !honk you 

..___The Fondue Parlor~ 
100 Center Old Brewery Bu1ld1ng Mtshowoko ReservatiOns Suggested 

The Observer/Joanne Whitfield Sorin freshman Mark Thomser from Long Island, N.Y., browses through the bookstore. 
ND government seeks frosh 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame student govern­ment is looking for freshmen who have the enthusiasm to get involved. 
"So many freshmen come from backgrounds in high school (where) they're doing everything," said student body president Pat Cooke. 
"As soon as they come to Notre Dame they're looking for avenues to get involved," said Cooke. "Student government is a great avenue." 
"They're (student­government people) great people to work with and you can learn a tremendous amount," he added. 
The primary way freshmen can participate is through the Freshman Advisory Council, according to Laurie Bink, stu­dent body vice president. The Council organizes events for the freshman class. 
Interested freshmen should check with their hall rectors and rectresses, Bink said, be­cause the hall representative is chosen by the rectors. 
Another method of participa­tion, Bink said, is to come up to the offices on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center and work on one of the many commissions and com­mittees in student government. 
Student government also plans special projects through­out the year. One project will be planning activities for the inauguration of University President Father Edward in September, Bink said. 
The inauguration presents a unique opportunity to get in­volved, Cooke noted. 
"It's not something that hap­pens every year, it's not some­thing we plan for every year. It's a once-in-a-lifetime deal," he said. 
The involvement of many people is needed to pull off these types of projects, Cooke added. 
"These are projects that take a lot of planning, a lot of people. Just a ton of people are involved in logisitcs," he said. 
"The freshmen are more than welcome," Cooke contin­ued. "We want to get as many freshmen involved in student government. The earlier, the better." 
Student government's main goal is to serve the student pop­ulation, Bink said. 
"We are a servtce orgamza­tion in the sense that students who have requests can come to us and we try to carry them out," she explained. 
Not only does student govern­ment interact with those at the University, but also with those in the community around Notre Dame, Bink added. 
"We represent the student voice to the South Bend com­munity as well as the adminis­tration," she said. 
Other branches of student government keep the student informed and entertained, Bink said. 
The Hall Presidents' Council is composed of the 24 hall presi­dents, an off-campus commis­sioner, a secretary and a chair­man. The HPC, Bink said, acts as an information network back to the students through the hall councils and the sec­tions. 
The Student Union Board, formerly called the Student Ac­tivities Board, plans most of the social events on a campus­wide level, she said. 
"They run the movies on campus and they're working on bringing concerts in this year.'' 



SWEENEY 
Dally and Nightly Specials with &ee munchies 
Monday thra Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 
Monday thra Saturday 
10:00 pm ·Close 
Join our 14Around the World ..,ith 80 Beers" Club 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Greatest Selections 
Phone 2n-6368 

6402 Grape Road Across from University Park Mall on Grape Road 

. -------~ 
------------~~---------­
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987 -page 4 

.. . . University Foo_d Services Presents The 5th Annual Welcome Back Picnic August 25, 1987 Don't forget we have invited the WHOLE Notre Dame Community to celebrate together! UNIVERSilY FOOD SERVICE NOTRE DAME  

r---------------------------~~---------~-------­
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987 -page 5 
SOMETHING FANTASTIC IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN NORTH DINING HALL is going to be renovated totally and completely UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES needs your cooperation to make it happen NORTH DINING HALL EXPANSION UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME , INDIANA This project will take two years to complete because spaces, two private dining spaces for 1 00 with the dining hall must fireplaces, cathedral ceilings, double level dining continue to operate in segments during the school year areas, facing the quads with many window seats, al and close totally during the summer and breaks. new fry stations on the line. Dining rooms will be At the conclusion of this project, you will have a aesthetically uplifted with carpeted floors, wall fully renovated facility with 500 additional seating and ceiling treatments. ADVISORY: Some of the North Quad Dorms will be asked to use South Dining Hall during construction to avoid long lines at North Dining Hall. Check Dining Operating Hours and try to avoid the traditional rush hours. William J. Hickey, Jr. The University and Contractors will work to make Director this project as painless as possible. University Food Services 1987-1988 MEAL HOURS MEAL OFFERED MONDAY THRU FRIDAY SATURDAY AND SUNDAY BREAKFAST 7:00 am -9:00 am -­CONTINENTAL 9:00 am -10:00 am 9:00am-10:00 am 11 :00 am -1 : 15 amBRUNCH ----­LUNCH 11 :00 am -1 :30 pm -----~ DINNER 4:45 pm -6:45 pm 4:45 pm -6:45 pm  



~ ---·-------------~------------------~----------~--. 
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987-page 6 
Transfers to ND also must adjust to a new life 
By KIM YURATOVAC life,'.' said commitee member keep transfers informed." individual dorms. Due to a lack asko said. "But there are only Staff Reporter Julie Casko. "We want them to Because of the unusually of organization, the club never a few ways for them to get in­get to know names and people large number of accepted achieved its goal. "Since our volved. We want to make the 
Freshmen are not the only to contact during the school freshmen who decided to at­committee is made up mostly transfer club a way for them students attending orientation year." tend Notre Dame this year, of former transfer students," to get involved." events -230 transfer and read­Casko said that one of the there are about thirty women said committee member Siob­
Aside from Thursday's mass
mitted students participated in most difficult adjustments living in study lounges until han Kearney, "we know what and campus tours, the commit­Thursday's mass and campus transfer students have to make housing becomes available. worked last year and what tee planned a barbecue Fridaytours. is living off-campus. "Dorm There are still many transfers didn't. We'd like to -assign night and a party is scheduled 
The Transfer Committee, led life is so iJllPortant at Notre from last year's on-campus transfers to dorms so that they by Chairmen Susan Droege and Dame. Because transfers are housing waiting list who are could go to SYR's and partici­for this evening at 8:00 in the Ed Kelly, has been coordinat­forced to live off-campus, they now behind these freshmen on pate in dorm activities." Holy Cross party room. The ing transfer activities since don't hear about all of the on­the list. events don't end with orienta­May. campus activities. This year, Last year the transfer com­"Transfers come from tion. The committee is plan­
"We want the transfers to get we have a bulletin board in mittee started the Adopt-a­schools with Greek systems ning yearlong events to help the to know one another so that LaFortune and a mailbox in the Transfer club where transfer and a lot different programs so transfers assimilate into they feel more a part of campus Student Government office to students could be adopted by they have a lot of good ideas, campus life. 
Building construction at ND greets incoming students 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO finished by the end of this "There is so much construc­will be patient with the incon­sheet metal and recaulking month and the arena by the end tion that it's difficult getting veniences that will occur from cracks, Dedrick said. The cross 
Staff Reporter 

of October," Dedrick said. materials," he said. "It is a sig­the renovation. "We're going to on the steeple has also been 
The sights and sounds of on­The Center will include an nificant structure and that inconvenience as few students regilded. going construction will greet eight-lane indoor track and takes time." as possible, but there will be Bids for the new air­freshmen and returning stu­Meyo Field, an artificial­Work on a two-year project disruptions," he said. conditioning system, which dents upon arrival at Notre surface football field. The com­to renovate the North Dining Construction on Knott and should be completed by May 1, Dame. plex will also house an Hall has "just started," he Seigfried halls, two new wo­1988, are coming up soon. Bids 
The Loftus Sports Center, an auditorium, athletic clas­said. men's residence halls located for repairing the stained glass all-sports building situated in a srooms and a small locker The renovations call for the north of the Hesburgh Library, in the church will also be taken wooded area near the Eck Ten­area. addition of a two-story dining is going along fine, Dedrick soon, he said. nis Pavilion, is nearing comple­Problems with the delivery space to the west of the existing said. The stained glass repair will tion, Director of Physical Plant of building materials have structure and two small addi­The external masonry and take three years to complete Don Dedrick said. hampered the project, Dedrick tions to the north and south of roof on Knott Hall, the west because the glass will be 
"The weight room should be said. the building, Dedrick said. building, has been completed, repaired one area at a time, 
The western addition will he said. Work on tlte brick Dedrick added. this fall. Simultaneously, 150 have one-half of the bottom facing is just beginning. Work was also done on aND less men are to be admitted in floor located underground, he Seigfried Hall has been com­number of smaller projects this added. The serving areas will pleted up to the third floor. summer, Dedrick said. 
each of these years. 
continued from page 1 To accommodate the in­be renovated next summer to "We're in good shape on both Howard Hall, formerly a a "scramble" system like that of those buildings," he said. He men's dorm, was converted
crease in women, the Univer­
toll, New York is the state sity is constructing two new wo­used in South Dining Hall. estimated that both structures over the summer for use by wo­which most call home, followed men's dormitories on the north The renovations will allow should be completed by June 1, men, Dedrick said. Alterations by Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania side of campus. In addition, the dining hall to hold more so­1988. in the dorm included modifica­
and New Jersey. Howard Hall, a men's dor­cial functions when completed, Repairs to the roof of Sacred tion of the bathrooms and con­Last year about 6,900 stu­mitory since its construction in he said. Heart Church are well along, version of a lounge into a 
Plans call for 150 more women ,~-~::;oo.c"""<?""C~~""'<:~~~~~~~~~'ftO»~~~·~~~~
f 
to be admitted each year over ) 

a four-year period, beginning § 
Welcome Students and Parents 
~


SMC § 

§
continued from page 1 


Kagels
~ 
Rowan added that families who are satisfied with Saint Mary's "want to continue and share the tradition with their 
t
daughters, cousins and 

Nearest florist to campus. Just call in your needs and we'll take care of the rest!
nieces." She said each class has its own personality and 

We accept all major credit cards. 
trademarks. "This year's freshmen really want to be in­volved," Rowan said. "We're so excited because we've had 

Come in and look and see.
close communication with the incoming students." 
l
The increased communica­

~ We have Hibel art, Collector Dolls, flowers and gifts.
tion was made possible through 
a "refined telephone support of 

i ­
the mailings." She said that incoming stu­dents and their parents have While in South Bend Kagel's is a Must. 
told her they feel like they 
belong already. "The parents 
!
and incoming freshmen tell me 

~ Cash and Cany Bouquets all the time for $}0. 602 N. Michigan St South Bend (across from Memorial Hospital) 233-2232 
J
that this feeling of belonging 
has been fostered by the admis­

~~~-~~..q,..q,~..q,-..on?>~~~~l#>
sion council,'' she said. 

dents applied to the University 1924, was converted this sum­and 2,900 were accepted. mer to a women's dormitory. Rooney attributed the in­
crease in applicants this year The Board of Trustees and to "the very favorable University President Father publicity" of Father Theodore Edward Malloy support an in­
, 
Hesburgh's retirement as Uni­crease in the number of r versity president. minority students, Rooney
, 
In addition, more students said. applied once word spread that

' 
"The general thought is that
r Notre Dame was accepting
r 
r more women, he said. "Once it Notre Dame has not had a good 
, minority representation on
got around that we were going

, 
campus,'' Rooney said. 
to bring in a larger number of 

, ~ 
women, it made the University , more attractive to both male As a result, he said, the Ad­r and female students," Rooney missions Office has stepped up 
said. its minority recruitment. This r ~ About two years ago, the Uni­year "we had a great deal of r versity's Board of Trustees au­help from minority alumni and 
r 
thorized an increase in the minority students," he said. r number of women by 600, he said. 
Dedrick said he hopes people with workers repairing the laundry room, he noted. 
Welcome Back Students Good thru Sept '87 
W~t aiolnnial Jlancukt Jlousr , 
$1.000ffwithThisA~ 
Limit 1 

OUR SPECIALTY 
per person 

Limit 4 APPLE PANCAKESper coupon 

OVEN-BAKED 
LJ.S. 31 North in Roseland CA~o:nhs from the Holida ·Inn 272-7433 Open 7days a wHk at 6:00am 


~------------------------------------------------------------~~-­
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987 -page 7 
Organizing SMC orientation· fun but not easy 
By MARIA DOTI "I think planning orientation academic departments at the School Liturgy will take place with her group members over 
Staff Reporter this year was especially fun for College Open House at Angela at 9:30a.m. the next day in An­the summer, greeting them
the committee because we Athletic Facility at 1 p.m. gela Athletic Facility. when they arrive on campus,Saint Mary's freshman ori­were able to develop a new 
Mterwards, there will be a All of this would not have meeting with them as a group
entation: It has taken more theme and create activities to session for students and their been possible without the help to answer questions andthan 100 people to put it to­enlighten that theme," said parents from 3 to 4 p.m. in of those organizing freshman troubleshoot, attending special 
gether. Smith. O'Laughlin Auditorium. Here orientation. The large group of sessions and doing follow-ups
"Getting this many people to The theme of this year's ori­they will be introduced to a people involved breaks down throughout the year," Smithwork together is not easy," said entation is a boat cruise. New number of student support ser­into three smaller committees. said.Mary Ellen Smith, director of students already have attended vices on campus, such as Coun­The largest group consists of The head committee consists student activities. "But stu­movies, mixers and academic 
seling and Career 95 "survival leaders." Each is of nine members who are re­
dents involved in orientation do information sessions. Development, Student Activi­responsible for helping a small sponsible for planning and ex­
it because they love it." This afternoon new students ties and Campus Ministry. group of new students in their ecuting aU social aspects ofSmith aids the students in will have the opportunity to Beginning at 6 tonight, there orientation to Saint Mary's. 
new student orientation. brainstorming and planning meet representatives from will be a Beach Party on Li­"A survival leader's respon­Two people share the title of 
freshman orientation. various administrative and brary Green. The Opening of sibilities include corresponding social chairperson. They plan all special events such as movies, get-togethers with Notre Dame students and plant and poster sales. 


Crash 

continued from page 1 
Investigators are still trying to determine why Naddy's car

ONEHOUR 
was in the northbound lane, Feirrell said. Both drivers, the only occupants of the cars,



MOTOPHOTO" 
were reportedly not wearing seat belts. Police tests showed Maike's

ONE HOUR ONE HOUR 
blood-alcohol level "was sub­

MOTOPHOTO • Pictures ready in one hour MOTOPHOTO 
stantially higher than the legal limit," Feirrell said. 

UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality SCOTTSDALE MALL 
The blood drawn from Naddy 

272-8243 291-3096 
has been sent to a state police laboratory, Feirrell said. The results of the blood-alcohol test 

----~;;-:;:~--~~~()--------------if=~iE:~------------c;raCfiia~i~~~Sj)ec:~ai __ _ 
won't be available for one or two weeks. Paperwork from the investi­

OFF FILM DEVELOPING EXTRA SET OF PRINTS 24 Wallet S1ze Portraits 
gation is being forwarded to

With thi~ coupon. receive a F~EE Extra· Set of With this coupon receive 24 wallet size With thi~ coupon, receive ~ 3 -00 OFF on a 36 Print~. when pre~enting one rl)ll of colo·r print portraits when purchasing any regularly County Prosecutor Michael 
expo~ure. ~2 .00 OFF on a 24 expo~ure. ~1.00 f"l f · d · 
Barnes, Feirrell said. Barnes

1m (C-41 proce~~) or proces~mg an prmt-priced portrait package at ONE HOUR
II

OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a ro ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limitt•d to 
could not be reached for com­

of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro-one roll per coupon per customer. Not v.llid MOTO PHOTO. One coupon per custom­
ment.

ce~~ing and printing at One Hour Moto with any other promotion. er. Not valid with any other promotion.
Photo. Coupon offPrs may not be combined. Naddy is survived by his Expires·s t b 301987 ONEHOUII Expires:September 30.1987 ONEHOUII Expires:September 30.1987 CJNEHOUII
1 wife, three sons and a 
: · ep em er · NTOTOPHOTO NTOTOPHOTO 1 •Un1versity Mall only NTOTOPHOTO 
daughter, Lardner said. 

L---------------·--------------------------------·-••••••••···--l-------------·----------------~ 

(3M l
HAMMES 
~ 

NOTRE DAM£ ~ 
BOOKSrORE WELCOME BACK STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 



Scotch~ 
Mounting Squares 
--·.... ·-..-o-. ...·~-· _..._.,_,••" 


$1.79 $0.86 $2.19 $2.99 WaJ.lsaver Mounti11g Squares Monthly Planner Memo Cubes Mounting Tape Post-it Post-it 
hang pictures, post~rs witl•out Scotch double-faced adhesive 16 12 sheets, will stick to almost bright color pads will stick to al­damaging walls or posters ,one inch squares anything most anything 
1 1 
~ 
1 
,1 
• 




View~_o_i_n_t_________
sa-turd-ay,-Augu-st-22, 1-987--pa-ge8 

Freshmen need patience in adjusting to college 
P.O.Box Q 
Malloy welcomes the Class of 1991 
Dear Freshman Student: 

I want to welcome you to Notre Dame. I feel a special affection for you as a group because we are beginning together a new stage of the University's history. The future looks bright and promising to me. There is an excite­ment in the air which I hope you share. 
Notre Dame strives to be the kind of community where each of you can quickly sense that you belong. Surely there will be a few moments of anxiety and doubt, and maybe a little homesick­ness as well. But once you get into the flow of things, the semester and the year will pass quickly. 
You will find yourself in the midst of 
With the freedom of college life comes an appreciation for family. Freshmen will enjoy not always being told what to do and how to live their lives. When you say good-bye this weekend, you start your own life. It's going to be great making your own deci­sions. It's going to be sad, but soon your phone bills home will reflect how much you miss the influence they've had upon you. Feel fortunate in the fact that when you need your family, they'll still be there for you. And when you get home on your first break, your family will hopefully see the maturity process that will have begun from being solely re­sponsible for yourself. 

If freedom is a most enjoyable aspect of college life, then the pressure in­volved with living on your own and fin­ding time for academics and social ac­tivities while still keeping up with your laundry is one of the toughest. Some­times it's easy to feel lost with a million things going on. The best advice is to try to relax. It seems simple but you'll find that it's not. There is a lot of pres­sure here to succeed, but strive to succeed on your own terms. Also, don't feel uncomfortable in being over­whelmed right away. The first week you'll probably get lost on your way to class and your prof will make an ex­ample of you in front of 50 students who you've never met. Take comfort in · knowing that you are not the first and certainly not the last to have this hap­pen. I guarantee that before long you'll be laughing about others' freshman mistakes. It's all a part of growing up. 
When it comes to correcting fresh­man mistakes and giving advice on anything from scheduling t<isociallife, the Freshman Year of Studies is avail­able. The advisors there have handled all sorts of problems, so don't be afraid to open yourselves up to them. That's what they're there for. The same goes with rectors, hall priests, and R.A.'s. It seems that many students aren't as 
~ 
willing to go to these people for advice. Sometimes, it's good to talk to students for help in dealing with problems under the Dome, but when you need the best advice, look toward the more experi­enced people. 
Don't be afraid to ask questions to anyone. If you have a particular ques­tion, it's more than likely that someone else has the exact same question. One of the best qualities of Notre Dame is the family type atmosphere that you'll feel here. When you walk by people on the Quad, it's not just mere coincidence that people will go out of their way to greet you. The people here really are friendly. 
Another way to adapt to living with 8000 other students is to get involved in as many activities as possible. In a school this large, it would be easy to feel as if you're just a number. But, in the beginning of the semester there are plenty of opportunities to sign up for clubs, sports, or whatever you like. Ac­tivities Night is September 1 at Stepan Center. Make sure to sign up for a va­riety of activities because it's not only a chance to develop skills, it's a great way to meet different kinds of people. And don't just sign up for activities you're familiar with. Take a chance on something new if for no other reason than to get your money's worth. It's likely you'll find something new that you'lllike. 
Academic life here is obviously the key reason why most students come to Notre Dame. Again, don't be over­whelmed on Tuesday when classes begin. You probably will be assigned a major paper due on the next class day and, when you get it back, you might be very disappointed with the grade. It's a humbling experience, but also something that shouldn't worry you. All freshmen are in the same boat when it comes to this. Just like every other aspect of college life, you will need to adjust to the academic part. Remem­
teachers, dorm staff, counselors and clergy prepared to help you make the transition to university life go smooth­ly. Take advantage of their presence. As time passes, they might even be­come good friends. 
We need you here. You are the spark that makes the classroom challenging for our faculty. You are part of the ex­tended family that is ever making in our dorms. You are the congregation that gives vitality to our worship and dedication to our social service. 
As your parents leave you behind at the end of this weekend, take the time to thank them for both of us. Their love and support will continue even at a dis­tance. Now it is.up to you to make the most of this blessed opportunity. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. President 
Frosh Commissioner greets incoming class 
Dear Class of 1991: 
Hey, you're here and others like you are coming. Great! So welcome and let's get started. 
Welcome to Notre Dame and South Bend where you are what makes things happen. Notre Dame is a great place, and you can make it greater. Just relax and get ready. 
As you should know by now, Sunday, August 23, Student Government is spon­soring Musical Chairs at 9:00p.m. on the Stepan basketball courts. Musical Chairs will be immediately followed by a Tie Dance in Stepan Center. All fresh­man are welcome. All of Student Gov­ernment and I look forward to having you. 

ber that you will be attending classes with some of the top students in the nation. It will take you time to adjust to the students, as well as the professors who will be quite different than high school teachers. They will demand much, but be confident and expect much of yourself. There are fewer times to prove yourself so try to begin budgeting your time wisely from the beginning. 
Another adjustment you'll immedi­ately find is building friendships. At first, you may feel lost if you don't know anyone. Soon, however, you will meet your roommate, then your hallmates, and then your classmates. A great thing about Notre Dame is that students have very different backgrounds and are from all parts of the world. Many fresh­men here don't know anyone else either. Some will know many people from back home but don't depend solely on these people. Be outgoing and go meet people. They'll be just as happy to meet you. 
Finally, try to balance all of the aforementioned advice. Academics play a major role at this university. It certainly won't be easy to succeed academically, but give yourself a chance to adjust. Don't fall behind ear­ly, but don't worry if you feel like you don't have enough time to do all your work. Many seniors still feel blown away by the amount of work but have gotten by for three years. You'll be­come resourceful as time passes here. 
When you look back at Notre Dame four years from now, you'll know whe­ther you took full advantage of what this university has to offer. The four years will go quickly, much quicker than you could ever expect. In the long run, you'll find that it's up to you to make the most of this university. You have been given the opportunity. Now it's time to take advantage of it. 
Chris Murphy is a junior American 
Studies major and is Vie~point Editor for 1987-88. 
Congratulations  on  making it here  
and good luck!  
Greg Andres  

Freshman Orientation Commissioner 
Quote of the Day 

., Don't be dismayed at good-byes. A farewell is necessary before you can meet again. And meeting again, after moments or lifetimes, 
is  certain  for  those  who  are  
friends."  
Richard Bach  
Illusions  

r 
r 
Making a long drive across the flat­lands of Illinois and Indiana allows 

· one's mind to wander. Each year of school is a new beginning, whether you're a freshman looking at four years under the Golden Dome or a senior looking at the rest of your life. And as I drove, I came to the conclusion that freshman aren't much different from anyone else when it comes to approach­ing the start of a new year. 
Chris Murphy 
under pressure 
Despite being halfway through col­lege life, I still have experienced many of the same anxieties and many of the same hopes that I did when I entered the university just two short years ago. I still felt that strange awe, or whatever you would like to call it, when driving down Notre Dame Avenue under the overhanging trees toward the majestic Dome. As comfortable as I am here, I still felt a fear in not knowing what's going to happen for the next nine months. I still wonder about how my classes will be, what parties will be hap­pening, and who my new friends will be. These feelings, I believe, don't just disappear because of experience. Freshman will come to realize that the many feelings of hope, yet fear, and freedom, yet loneliness will never leave. So, it's not unnatural to feel these now as you look at the next four years of your lives. 
Freedom is the aspect of college life that students will come to enjoy most. Every step you take at this university will be yours and yours alone. Basi­

• 
cally, for the first time in life, you're responsible for your own future. The longer it takes you to realize this, the further you're going to fall behind here. Many eighteen-year-olds have been pushed by their families to excel in various endeavors. Now it's time to do it on your own. 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ............................ ......... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brjan P. Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager.......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ................. ............. Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial B'oard. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor...................... .. ........... Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 






Accent 

Saturday, August 22, 1987 -page 13 
KIM YURATOVAC and PETE GEGEN 

A Domer 
features writers 
here are only so many campus tours and orientation T meetings that any freshman could stand. And after all of the formality, most freshmen are still disoriented as to what life under the Golden Dome Is really like. 
Arter the ceremony ceases and the parents have gone home, freshmen realize that they are foreigners In a strange land. In order to survive, they need to know the campus language. 
The following Is an Informal dictionary that will give you a glimpse of the Notre Dame lingo. 



Domer -a Notre Dame student. Even after you graduate you will be a domer. It's an attitude, a lifestyle that begins while you're a student and continues on until you start wearing green plaid pants to home football games. 
SMC chick -A not-exactly-polite term for a Saint Mary's College student. Here the letters "SMC" are pronounced as "smick." 
North Quad -the group of dorms which includes Cavanaugh, Zahm, Stanford, Keenan, Farley and Breen-Phillips. Resi­dents of North Quad think they are better than South Quad residents. 
South Quad -the group of dorms which includes Pangborn, Fisher, Dillon, Alumni, Badin, Howard, Morrissey and Lyons. Residents of South Quad think they are better than North Quad resi­dents. 
Mod Quad -group of dorms which in­cludes Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West. Mod Quad, usually in the shadows of North and South Quads, is the fastest growing part of campus with Knott and Seigfried halls, two new womens' dorms, soon to be completed. After the completion of these halls, mod quad will have the highest percentage of women on campus. 
God Quad -the group of buildings in­cluding Sorin and Walsh halls which lie in the shadows and ringing bells of Sacred Heart Church. ~ 
Ad Building -the Administration Build­ing, a.k.a. "The Dome." The Towers -Grace and Flanner Halls. Stacked living at its best. 


ACC -the Edmund P. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, which houses the basketball and hockey arenas as well as the athletic offices. Larger than the Hous­ton Astrodome, the ACC is so big you will never be able to completely make use of Oet alone find) all the facilities it offers students. 
CCE -not to be confused with the ACC, it is the Center for Continuing Education located next to the post office. 
'brare -the Hesburgh Library. For some, it will be a home away from dorm. For others it will remain an unused resource. The second floor is the favorite scoping, socializing and sometimes studying place. 
The Pit -really two different places, one is the vending area found in the basement of the 'brare, and the other is the auxil­iary gym in the lower level of the ACC. So when you see posters advertising a volleyball match in the Pit, don't head for the 'brare. 
The Rock -the Rockne Memorial gym on South Quad, site of many pick-up bas­ketball games. 
Stonehenge -the Clarke Memorial foun­tain on North Quad, affectionately named for its counterpart in England. 
Throat -though derived from "cut throat," the term is used more for people who study all the time. 
Townies -South Bend residents. The general feeling you'll get after a few years is that townies don't like domers, and vice versa. It's unfortunate. 
Benders -Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students who are from South Bend. They are caught in the middle of the townie­darner clash. 
An Tostal -a week-long celebration held every spring heralding the beginning of a long finals week. This is Notre Dame's answer to Animal House. Mud Pits, Jello Wrestling and Keg Tossing are just a few of the crazy events. 
Bookstore -the world's largest basket­ball tournament, held in the spring in con­junction with An Tostal. The less popular definition is the place where you pay ex­orbitant prices for books. 
SYR -a dance held in a dorm. Short for "screw your roommate," it's an event in which you set your roommate up with a date. 
O.C. -Off Campus. Off Campus is a ref­uge from parietals and the alcohol policy, although parties aren't always safe there anymore, thanks to the South Bend and Indiana State Excise Police. 
Ethanol -if you think the water is bad, just wait until that one morning when a terrible stench hits the South Bend air. That's ethanol, and it's bad enough to make you lose your appetite. 
Hoosier -A person from Indiana is proud to be one, a person outside Indiana likes to make fun of one. We'll just leave it to Webster's Third New International Dictionary to define a hoosier as "an awkward, unhandy or unskilled person, especially an ignorant rustic." 
SAGA -Officially, SAGA is the Saint Mary's food service. It is otherwise known as the Soviet Attempt To Gag America or the home of free soft-serve ice cream popular with the men of Notre Dame. 
Double E -Electrical Engineering majors. Notice that it takes two "E's" to spell "geek." About the only thing worse than a Double Eisa CHEG. 
CHEG -Chemical Enginering majors. 
Parletals -just when you thought you were a safe distance from your parents, you discover these rules which prohibit members of the opposite sex from being in a dorm after midnight on weeknights and 2 a.m. on weekend nights. 
Tofu -no one is exactly sure what it is, but when it is served in the dining halls, you know it's time to get a pizza. 
Emil -This term is now just a memory, thanks to the retirement of Dr. Emil T. Hofman, the long-time freshman chemistry professor, So while you will not have to experience the weekly seven­question quizzes known as "Emils," you will need to know the term come a special sophomore parade the night of Sept. 3. 
Dog Book -otherwise known as the Freshman Directory, this book is a useful tool in finding SYR dates. And be sure to have it handy when all of those SYR calls start coming in. 
And a few new slang terms which may soon be popular: 
The Teddy 'brare -the library. 
The Ned Shed -the ACC. Another up­and-coming nickname is the JACC or Jack. 
The Six Pack -the latest attempt to name the cluster of six dorms east of North Quad. The dorms include Grace, Flanner, Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West, as well as the two dorms now under construction, Knott and Seigfried. 
Ted's -the popular-among-freshman non-alcoholic night club "Theodore's" lo­cated on the second floor of LaFortune. 




Getting to know South Bend 
ERIC M. BERGAMO Ireland Road, is a little longer. U.S . .31 should take care of the Jeremiah Sweeney's and the the south end of the campus, features writer Scottsdale has many of the feeling. Located there are Olive Garden are located on is the closest hotel to campus. same stores as University Park Azar's Big Boy, McDonald's, Grape Road near University The Jamison Inn, a "bed and There is another world and has two movie theaters of Bonnie Doon, Pizza Hut. Burger Park Captain Alexander's breakfast" inn, Is located on 
beyond the friendly con-Its own. Transpo, the South King. Arby's, Godfather's Pizza, Wharf, featuring a seafood Angela Avenue south of the nnes of Notre Dame called Bend public transportation sys-Ponderosa, Steak and Ale, Taco menu and a beautiful view of ACC. South Bend. tern, runs buses to Scottsdale Bell and Naugles. the St. Joseph's River, Is on Inexpensive motels can be 
But If you don't know what and to University Park. Breakfast lovers enjoy The East Colfax Avenue near down-found on U.S . .31: The you're looking for or where It A unique change from the Colonial Pancake House, on town. The Ice House, Fondue Budgeteer Motor Inn, Day's is, getting around South Bend other malls, the I00 Center In Dlxleway North, famous for Its Parlor and the Rathskellar are Inn, Motel 6, Howard Johnson's can be dlfncult. nearby Mishawaka Is situated In oven baked apple pancakes. all located in the 100 Center. and the Ramada Inn. 
a renovated brewery. The 100 Domino's Pizza, a campus The Carriage House restaurant. The classier hotels found In Where to Shop Center offers specialty shops, favorite for late night pizza, located on Adams Avenue, is downtown South Bend are the restaurants and a movie com-delivers to campus. So does also popular. Americana Inn on West Wash-
If the urge to shop strikes, plex. Godfather's. Tippecanoe Place, housed in ington Avenue and the Marlatt South Bend offers three shop-Smaller shopping centers what used to be the on St. Joseph's Avenue. ping malls with a variety of close to the campus are North A popular restaurant with Studebaker Mansion, Is on stores to please any taste. Village Mail on U.S . .31 and the Notre Dame students is Bar-West Washington Avenue. Oetting There 
University Park Mail, two Town and Country Plaza on naby's, at the intersection of Macri's Deli, another popular miles north of campus on State McKinley Avenue. Grape and East Jefferson spot for Darners, is on Gtape Transpo offers bus service Route 2.3, is the closest to If money is tight. the Good-roads. Barnaby's offers pizza Road. Macri's is famous for its throughout South Bend and Notre Dame. The mall offers will Store, offering used mer-and sandwiches at reasonable submarine sandwiches. Another Mishawaka. The cost to ride is more than 90 stores and res-chandise at low prices, is the prices. Another popular place is up-and-coming sub restaurant 50 cents. Transpo bus stops taurants, including Sears and place to go. Goodwill has items Rocco's Pizza on Saint Louis Is Mateo' Subs located on Iron-are at the Main Circle and the 
J.C. Penny. if you're in the such as easy chairs, couches, Boulevard. Pizza, pasta and wood Drive. Mateo' delivers to Library Circle. Taxi companies mood for a movie,' the mall tables and lamps and can sandwiches are some of the campus. Spots for Chinese also offer a way to get around has a theater complex showing make decorating the room less featured food there. food include the Great Wall res-the city. 
-
the latest releases. A new six-costly. Goodwill is a half mile If the ice cream urge strikes, taurant on U.S . .31 and the theater complex. offering more south of campus at the Five Chris' Ice Cream, on South Oriental Express across from If the '"Windy City" of Chicago viewing choices, opened last Corners. Bend Avenue is a good rem-University Park Mail. is where you want to go, the year and is located on Grape edy. Chris' homemade ice South Shore train, which leaves Road across from University Where To Eat cream is a favorite study break Where to Stay from the train station at 722 W. Park. for Notre Dame and Saint Washington Ave., will take you 
A shuttle bus travels from the South Bend has plenty of Mary's students. If you have family or friends there at a reasonable price. campus to the mall every restaurants to choose from to If you·r~ in the mood for coming to South Bend to visit. So there you have it. South Friday and Saturday evening calm down that rumbling more formal dining. South lodging can be found at com-Bend at a glance. But in order for a cost of 75 cents. stomach. Bend has its share of restau-parable prices. to really get to know the city, 
The trip to Scottsdale Mail, If fast food is your craving. a rants with a pleasant atmo-The Morris Inn, operated by you have to go out and explore on the south side of the city on multitude of restaurants on sphere and nne food. the University and located at It for yourself. 
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987 -page 14 

-; 

-~--~-----~ ~ 
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987 -page 15 
Sophomores Tony Rice and John Foley, sidelined last year 

Irish 
under NCAA Proposition 48, continued from page 20 have completed their freshman 
year successfully and are in academic reasons. The two of­Notre Dame uniforms for the fensive guards from Chicago's first time. St. Rita High School were on There's also a pretty talented academic probation during returning starter at the flanker their 1986-87 freshman school position. He's a senior and his year. name is Tim Brown, but 
Cegielski and Zaleski were publications like the Sporting two of the five players News are just calling him the suspended from spring football top preseason pick for the Reis­for disciplinary reasons, and man Trophy. also were suspended by Holtz Brown is the top returninglast November for infractions NCAA all-purpose runner with of team rules. 176.09 yards per game in 1986, 
and is second among returning 

Meanwhile, senior split end kickoff returners at 27.92 last Tony Eason will sit out the en­year. tire 1987 season after undergo­Others wearing the first ing surgery to his left knee in team jerseys on offense are: July. Terry Andrysiak, quarter­
Sophomore center Steve Huf­back; Mark Green, tailback; fman also will not see action in Reggie Ward, split end; Andy an Irish uniform. Huffman quit Heck, tight end; Tom the team this past week. Freeman, guard; Byron
But even with those setbacks, 
Spruell and Tom Rehder, the situation is more optimistic tackles; and Chuck Lanza, cen­than one might think. ter. 
ErJ.ioy a unique 
~erience in 
oriental dining. 

Fresh ingredients 
6.'529 University Commons 

No mass productions 
South Bend IN 277-6702 


'87 SCHEDULE. 
Sept. 12 SEPT. 19 Sept. 26 Oct. 10 Oct. 17 OCT. 24 OCT. 31 NOV. 7 NOV. 14 Nov. 21 Nov. 28 


Welcome Baptist Students 

BAPTIST Student Union 

Bible Study -Fellowshi 
Join * August 31, 1986 
* Time: -r m.

Us! * .\t tht· llulla lloust· 

WELCOME STUDENTS AND PARENTS Unique Sandwich Menu: Beer aad WIDe Caeaal Atmo.phere•Italian sausage •Gyros •Italian meatball • Croissants PLUS: • Beef and company •Old Chicago FootbaU Catering (Tallpt....) 3 foot or 6 foot S.adwicb­• and many more! Meat aad Cheeee Traye Spe~IBo•edLaachea Large Screen Satellite TV University Center 6502 Grape Road Mishawaka 277-7273 Located south of Service Merchandise Mon-Thurs 11 :30-10:00 Fri-Sat 11 :30-11 :00 Sunday 12:00-10:00  


The Observer 
Sports facilities offer diversion 


Whether you enjoy playing football, basketball, tennis, golf or racquetball, or just like going for an occasional dip in the swimming pool, there is an athletic facility for you. The quads are available in the fall and spring for various activi­ties (although the University tends to frown upon too much use of the lawns), while, during the cold weather months, you can retreat indoors. Here is a list of the facilities available to students on both campuses: 
Edmund P. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center -The double-domed ACC, located east of the Stadium, contains more area than the Houston Astrodome. The South Dome houses the basketball arena used by both men's and wo­men's varsity teams. The North Dome is used by the hockey and track teams, 
among others. Within the struc­ture are handball, racquetball, squash, basketball, tennis and volleyball courts that usually are open to the public. Reserva­tions are required for most of the courts. One may also take advantage of the ice rink, boxing room and running track. For those interested in Notre Dame sports history, many of Notre Dame's awards are displayed outside the ath­letic department offices on the second floor. 

I 
Rolfs Aquatic Center Opened last fall, this natatorium features a 50-meter pool which is usually divided into three sections during recreational swimming times. The diving section features three one-meter and two three­meter springboards. The recreational swimming section is 25 yards in length and has eight lanes for swimming laps. The final section is used for 
water basketball and water polo. The center also has an ob­

t 
t servation deck with seating for 380 spectators, and brand-new locker facilities. The pool is lo­
cated at the east end of the Ath­letic & Convocation Center. 
Angela Athletic Facility ­Located north of McCandless Hall on the Saint Mary's campus, Angela includes bas­ketball, volleyball, racquetball and indoor tennis courts, and also has a carpeted jogging track around these courts. Weight machines, fitness and gymnastic equipment also are housed in the facility. Outside the building there are tennis and basketball courts. The facility is open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents upon the presentation of a student ID. Reservations are needed for the racquetball courts. 
Eck Tennis Pavilion -This in­door tennis facility will be open to students for the first time this fall. Located east of the outdoor tennis courts, this facility is country-club quality, housing six laykold courts and an observation deck. Court time can be reserved in one hour, 15 minute blocks by call­ing 239-6929. Fees are $1 for stu­dents, $2 for faculty and $4 for guests. 
Loftus Indooor Athletic Facility -Still under construc­tion, this facility, hidden among the trees east of Jake Kleine Field, will house a foot­ball field, a six-lane, 300-plus meter track and a new varsity weight room. Once this build­ing is completed, work will begin to convert parts of the North Dome of the ACC for stu­dent use, including the current varsity weight room. 
Burke Memorial Golf Course -On the west end of campus is the 18-hole, 6,500-yard Univer­s~ty golf course. The course is open until late fall and reopens in early spring. Green fees are
f 

Saturday, August 22, 1987-page 16 

The Rockne Memorial Gymnasium, better South Quad and is home to some of the best known as The Rock, stands at the west end of pick-up basketball games in the country. 
staff. Alumni can golf for $6 on weekdays and $7 on weekends. The course is a par 71 and does not require that the golfer have great skill. 
Knute Rockne Memorial-Lo­cated at the west end of South Quad, "The Rock" is the center for the physical education pro­gram. The brick structure con­
tains basketball courts, handball-racquetball courts, a weight room, a light apparatus room, a swimming pool and the golf pro shop. Use of the Rockne Memorial is free to all upon presentation of a Univer­sity identification card. Closing time is 11 p.m. daily. 
Stepan Center -Stepan Cen­ter and its adjoining fields and outdoor basketball courts are located in the northeast corner of the campus. Outside of the domed Center, one can play basketball, football, soccer, rugby and softball. The basket­ball courts are outfitted with lights that allow students to play basketball late into the night. Within Stepan Center are basketball and volleyball courts, open for recreational 
PR03RAM Angers, Franco 
Cairo, Egypt lnnsbruck, Austria Jerusalem, Israel Maynooth, Ireland 
Saint Mary's College Mexico City, Mexico People's Republic of China 
Summer Program 
Rome, Italy Saint Mary's College Tokyo, Japan 
Former student participants will also be on hand to discuss their experiences, offer comments and answer questions. 
COORDINATOR 
~ 
Dr. Louis MacKenzie Gate 10, Gym Dr. Nazih Daher C127 Dr. Albert Wimmer C111 Dr. Isabel Charles C124 Ms. Ellen Bussing Monogram Room B 
Dr. Olivera-Williams Monogram Room C 
Dr. Dian Murray Rolrs Aquatic Center Spectator Ar~~ 
Dr. Peter Checca GateS. Gym 
Fr. George Minamiki, SJ PI, Rolrs Aquatic Center 

and league play. Many of the interhall sports are conducted in this area of the campus. 
Regina Pool-This small pool located in the middle of Regina Hall on the Saint Mary's campus is popular for swim­ming laps. 
Bookstore Courts -These two courts are what gave the world's largest basketball tournament its name. Availability depends on the cars which use the courts as a parking lot. 
The Observer
------------------------------------------~Sa~t~u~rd~a~y!...,A~ugust 22, 1987-page 9 


THE CARRIAGE HOUSE
AI IU& 

OPEN TUESDAY lhrough SATURDAY 
219-272-9210 
RIIERVATION' RECOMMENDED 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 

Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy Ufe at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful settlna Is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides profeuon, employees, uaduate stu­dents, and admiDJstraton a retreat from campus. 
In addJtloo "" offer you a special dJacount . 
New apartments being built through Spring '87 
• 
Pool, Clubhouse, Community Activities 
• 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
• 
Intercom entrances
• 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
• 
Earthtone lnterion
• 
Country Kit· :hens
• 
•call for details about your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 
St.joe Bank, Now Open On Notre Dame Campus 

Rocco's Pizza 
South Bend's "Original Pizza" and a tradition with students 

Only a few blocks from campus Families weicome 
We serve the best in Italian and American Cuisine "try us and You'll agree" 
)

237 St. Loull Blvd. 233-2464 
St. joe Bank now has a Full Service Banking' Center in LaFortune Student Center. We're right on your way to wherever you're going, and our extended hours let you bank when other banks are closed . 
Our Notre Dame Banking Center package offers every­
thing you need from a bank, and more: 0 Free checking for students, faculty and staff. 0 $5.00 off your first order ofchecks . 0 Free ADVANTAGE 24 hour banking card with access to 
the CIRRUS nationwide network. 0 VISA card with discounted annual fee (subject to credit worthiness). 0 Free VISA Traveler Checks . 
And ofcourse we will be offering additional services such as financial counseling, tax planning, car financing at competitive rates, international money orders and wire transfers. 
To open your free checking account package stop by our office in the lower level ofLaFortune Student Center. For more information about all our banking services call: 
237-54ND 

St. Joseph Bank 
Ifyour money could talk, it would tell you St. joe. 
LaFortune Student Center, lower level Monday-Friday 10 a.m. -7 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m. -1 p.m. 
a

~ ()1987 St. joseph Bancorporation Member FDIC ORRUS. 

Saturday, August 22, 1987 -page 10
The Observer 
11a1kstoyou••. 

WELCOME FRESHMEN
it works.•• 

All Freshmen get
for 

W price cones. Good thru August
AU. 
OFUS 


cllll~s' 



£CJI£1\l'l
JC 
\723 south Bend p...~~urtieCreeV.)
Unltadwau 

(I elt at I inebac¥.0<. nel<t 
Eye Exams

ProfessionalVISion 
large Selection of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 

20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1635 N. Ironwood  1341 Portage  
277-1161  234-2400  
South of U.S. 23  Martins Shopping Center  

~Goclfatht:r's Pizza~ NOW HIRING! TM -~----------------------------------­I'I Godfather's pizza is now II hiring delivery people and II kitchen people. We offer flexible hours and above­I minimum wages. Applicants I must be 18 years or older I and should apply in person. I For more information, call I 259-2556 and ask for Steve or Devon. I I,------·--.---------------------------------­We Deliver to a Linaited Area 52920 US 31 North South Bend, IN Equal opportunity employer  
~~Goclfatha's Pizza~ Find one. It's worth it ('I,11• 1 \ IJ .~ 1 \ I. I I1 Medium original single 1I ingredient pizza 1I $5.9 9 Cioctfalhc:n I . plus tax & deliv.~~~ II Offer expores 6(!WI7 -\.;iff'1 • --L · · II Is W\IIUI II. ~---------------------Cioclfatbcr~ We Deliver to a Linaited Alrea Ot-~Pizza. 52920 US 31 North ~277-5880 South Bend, IN  

EASTERN STYLE 




SUBS 
Whole Wheat or White 

Half  Whole  
!THF. BJ(, VALUE·  
7"  14"  18"  
lpE MATEO .. ·'. . . . .  $2.22  3.55  4.99  
TURKEY . . . . . . . . . . .  2.22  3.55  4.99.  
TURKEY BREAST . . . .  2.62  3.96  4.99  
HAM .. . . .. .. .. . . .  2.45  3.73  4.99  
TUNA. . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.45  3.73  4.99  
REAL ROAST BEEF . . .  2.62  3.96  4.99  
GENOA SALAMI . . . . .  2.45  3.73  4.99  
CHEESE . , . . . . . . . . .  2.12  3.55  4.99  
REAL ITAUAN . . . . . .  2.62  3.96  4.99  
Capicola, Prosciutte,  
Genoa Salami  
COMBINATION . . . . . .  2.62  3.96  4.99  
Ham, Turkey,  
Roast Beef  
:HOMEMADEMEATBAll  2.4$  3.73  4.99  
PIZZA SUB . . . . . . . . .  2.45  3;73  4.99  
Pepperoni, Salami,  
Provolone, Onion,  
Mushroom, Red Sauce  
and Spices (HEATED)·  
DIET SUB . . . . . . . . . .  2.45  3.73  4.99  
Low Calorie  
Mayonnaise, Tuna or  
Turkey w/no oil  
X-TRAS  
s .4 7  .80  1.27  
.4 7  .80  1.27  
X-CHEESE ..  .28  .47  .80  
X-VEGETABLES  .28  .47  .80  
X-MAYO  5  .10  .15  
COSMO (HEATED) ..  .10  .10  .10  

SIDES 

Small  Large  
12 oz.  16 oz.  
POTATO SALAD  .  . .... $ .89  1.10  
COLE SLAW  . . . . . . . . . . .  .89  1.10  

BEVERAGES 
PEPSI • DIET PEPSI • SLICE • MOUNTAIN DEW Small Medium LARGE 12 oz. 16 oz. 32 oz. $ .42 s .52 $ .80 
6 FT. PARTY SUB AlSO AVAILABLE 

1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
DELIVERY!!! 271-0SUB 

..____________________________________ 
.... 

The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987 -page 12 

~ ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;;;:::::;:::;;;:::::;:::::::::::::::::: 
. ~",., ••v·' oREAt ~?f-· Come to· !iii
111! 
·i ,,,,. ~·~>~··\ Wf'LL ~.k=~·-~~ f • G c i1i1 L ,, }~:thenllc Szechuan and the Hunan Taste ~ t~~r~::~~:~ ~IIJ!'I'I~ ;~.~;!..~ B I L U M B E R ;1...~;1.·.~
' l'lus t:antonese and American J r 
LUNCHEON C€L€DRAT€ SUNOA Y :::: :::: 
SPECIAL

t'hoi<ru~~!~!!~:n.uun .~.=.~.:i.~::~For all your back•tO•SChOOii_::;·i::;
Planers. lnclud~s soup. ~~~~~ roll. fried rice & hoi .•:• :·:·
:;:; ::::~· .::"'· · ~: projects i.l 8
3.45 """"'"'""""' 
If •Bookshelves • Lofts i .. 
-OP.:N 7llt\YS­130 UIXIE HIGHWAY SOUTH HtJSINESS tl.S. 31 in ROSELi\1\iD 1!1! 
•Cork Boards • Cinder Blocks 1:r 
..--........-.-ISOUTHBE:-.illl alltANIMLL'S INN 12191 2n-7J7& 
Meet all your class needs by purchasing your textbooks (usedtlew) for less at  
Pandora's Books  
808 Howard SVNotre Dame Ave 233-2342, 7 dayS'Week 1 0-5:30 Save $$ at the best in books since 1972.  


I •Paneling • Closet Mates •.• f •Boards • Cut Plywood :\\\: 
1111 '"'u"""uN--H 111!
JrBigCLumber I Cash & Carry f ···· L...:......"·---· PendiSI Discount Prices ····
I De~:a~a~~rvice I 
00
ISt Mooy• Collogo -· Phone 272-6500 ri
I ~ ! " 125 Dixie Way N I' llll ~ ~ (US 31 North) !11l 
0 
~ """"'"-:~:"' ~u~ . = Store H~::.: ?·G 
~ 
t.::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;:;:;;:::::::::::::::;::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:::::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;~~:~:::::!g~::;:~~:::1t~~;:~ 

Carpet your dorm room with thick, beautiful 
Directions: 

carpet, but not empty your pocketbook! ....• N.-o_ _. g Sizes &om 6x9, 12x7, 12x8, 12x9, 12xl2, Edlson ~ McKinley 12x13, 12x14, 12x15, 12x16, 12x18, and up. 
_ ...... 0 

Mishawaka a.* Open Dally 1Q-6 Bring Your Measurements 2~ A-5148 
..,____......_____ Sat 1o-5 VISA and MasterCard accepted ~ 

( ' 
.I 
i 


The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987-page 11 
·-I 
rXC'A'R~P'''ETx,.~,,R,EiVfN'A'N~T'''~SALE,~~,,%~,,,,,,,~~~,W"''x,,,,.,,,«UX,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,~] 
I I




10%0FF 
EVERY CARPET REMNANT IN STOCK 
Over 500 Ren1nants To Choose From 
• ..t • .: 

12'x 6' s49.00 

Prior Sales Excluded
S69.00 

Sale Ends 9-20-87 
12'x 12' S99.00 
. OUR 33RD YEAR 
::::: 
::::: 
:;.;: 
.... 


FLOOR CENTER 
-
CHRISTY CHOATE ROD PENICK 
Hair Designer {formerly with L.S. Ayres) Owner Hair Designer 
Manager 
232-5007 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND IN. 

I 
:O:~::~c:.
0 ;,;ss __ 
/ 
X o.,r 
. : .:Kr:fl

NEW RENDITIONS 1621 S/BEND AVE. ... (kings cellar is our neighbor)... 



see us for all your retail haircare needs!! 
-----T 
-U,.•vt•S•TY :::: 
~ 1'&... MAll. ..' :::: 
~ ·--... ~. / :;:; 
~' . ·:

! ,?·~ 
·'. 
I 
WC .. lhl(T 
t 
i ~ 


On Grape Road-­
41l9 GRAPE ROAD, MISHA\VAKA ~~~~ PHONE: 277-9711 Just 2 Miles South Of Mall ~~ t:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~::~*~::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~:~:::~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:; 

The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1987-page 17 
Direct Deposit of Your Total Paycheck Special Drawing . .. . Special Prizes. . . .For Special Members 
Direct Deposit has been available for sometime. As products are developed, we add new features to make your membership more rewarding. We offer a variety of benefits and have also 
added FREE travelers chacks for members who have Direct Deposit of their total paychecks. The enclosed brochure out-, lines the most current features available under the Direct Deposit Program. You will notice that we do not offer "discount loans". The reason is simple. Surveys show that our rates are 
usually lower to begin with! 
SPECIAL PRIZES! 
Current Direct Deposit members, and all those who sign-up before October 15, 1987, are eligible for a prize drawing. We will be giving away four sets of two tickets to the NO home games below. (One drawing ticket per member.) Also, the first 100 new Direct Deposit sign-ups will receive a $5 gift certificate to the Hacienda Restaurant! 

NEW ID CARDS 
We have a new Direct Deposit ID card waiting for you if you are already sending us your total payc­heck. Simply stop into any of our offices and pick up your new ID card. If you would like to sign-up for Direct Deposit, call our Member Services De­partment or see your Payroll Department. 

SIGN-UP TODAY! 
Enjoy the Direct Deposit features available to you. Our Member Services Representatives will assist you with all the benefits of the Notre Dame Credit 
-Union. 

P.O. Box 7878 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 219/239-6611 Separate from the University of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
'l.:lll"'-~· c,.,.,tt'IIIIO 


----~~-----­
------~-~-~------------~--~--~ ~ -~­
Saturday, August 22, 1987-page 18
The Observer 


Meet the people of the Irish Athletic Dept. 
Father E. William Beau­champ -Beauchamp begins his first year as the University's Executive Vice President. Beauchamp replaces Father Edmund P. Joyce who held the 

Fr. Beauchamp 

post for 35 years. As Executive Vice President, Beauchamp will head the faculty board in control of athletics. This body is responsible for overseeing Notre Dame athletics. 
Richard Rosenthal -A 1954 graduate of Notre Dame, Rosenthal was named the school's Athletic Director Aug. 
4. Rosenthal replaces Gene Corrigan who resigned to be­come commissioner of the At­lantic Coast Conference. Rosenthal previously served as chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the St. Joseph Bancorporation and St. Joseph Bank &Trust Co. for 25 years. Rosenthal was a three­year starter at center for the Irish basketball teams of John Jordan and was captain of the team his senior season. He is a two-time all-American. 
Dr. Jo-Ann Nester-Nester is in her fourth year as Director of Athletics and Recreation at Saint Mary's College. In her first collegiate athletic admin­istrative position, some of Nester's accomplishments in­clude organizing Saint Mary's first student-run athletic coun­cil and bringing in four highly­touted coaches to the Saint Mary's staff. Nester also is credited with upgrading the College's soccer team from club status to the varsity level, in addition to arranging for the Saint Mary's swim team's use of Rockne Memorial pool. Nester holds bachelor and masters degrees from West Chester State in Pennsylvania, and she received her doctor of education degree with a minor in sports administration from Temple University. 
Roger Valdiserri -V aldiserri is entering his fifth year as As­sociate Athletic Director after 
having served seven years as 
Roger Valdiserri 

an assistant. He is best known, however, for his work as direc­tor of the sports information de­partment. A 1954 Notre Dame graduate, he served briefly as an administrative assistant to former football coach Terry Brennan. In 1966, after public relations stints with Mercedes­Benz and the Kansas City Chiefs, he returned to his alma mater to become Sports Infor­mation Director and, 10 years later, added Assistant Athletic Director to his duties. Re­garded as one of the best in his field, Valdiserri has earned 49 awards since 1976 from the Col­lege Sports Information Direc­tors of America for his sports publications, many honored as the best in the nation. This past summer Valdiserri was named the winner of CoSIDA's Arch Award for outstanding contri­butions within and outside the profession. 
Joe O'Brien-A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, O'Brien is in his fifth year as Associate Ath­letic Director after a seven­year stint as an Assistant Director. He also continues to · manage the department's finances as Athletic Business Manager. In 1955, O'Brien was 

Joseph O'Brien 

named Director of Personnel Functions at South Bend's second-largest employer Notre Dame. He has been here ever since, joining the athletic staff in 1976. He served as pres­ident of the College Athletic Business Managers Associa­tion in 1983 and was named business manager of the year in 1983 by CABMA. 
Dr. Tom Kelly -As Director of Non-Varsity Athletics, Kelly 
Tom Kelly oversees 11 club sports and 63 intramural events in additon to over 40 recreational programs 
ly, who was named an Assis­tant Athletic Director in 1983, received his masters degree in physical education from Penn State and his masters and Ph.D in Educational Administration from Notre Dame. He previ­ously was NVA's assistant director for 11 years (until 1979) and varsity baseball coach from 1976 through the 1980 season. 
Brian Boulac -A former Notre Dame tight end, this 1963 University graduate was named Assistant Athletic Director in 1983 following 13 seasons on the Irish football coaching staff. During that time, Boulac was recruiting co­ordinator for seven years, an administrative assistant to Dan Devine for two years, and a coach of the offensive and de­fensive lines, receivers, and specialty teams over that span. Presently Boulac's job is to of­fer direct assistance to Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal in a wide variety of areas. 
Missy Conboy -A 1982 graduate of Notre Dame, Con­boy is just beginning her first year as an Assistant Athletic Director. Conby will aid Assis­tant Athletic Director Brian Boulac in overseeing Notre Dame's non-revenue athletic programs and will be the school's primary representa­tive to the North Star Confer­ence. Conboy is a former cap-
AIM HIGH 
GET YOUR FUTURE OFF THE GROUND 
Imagine the thrill of 
fly1ng a jet aircraft' A1r · Force ROTC offers you leadership training and an excellent start to a career as an Air Force p1lot If you have what it takes. check out Air Force ROTC today. 
A•r Force ROTC Ph 239·6634 



~fo;;,r~b~ot:;h:.:.s.:taf~fan::,:d:.,:s:;tu:::d;:e~n=ts:.:.,.~K~el~-,_--------•-• 
Ourthree-year and · two-yearscholarshipswon't make college easier. 
Just easier topayfor. 
Even ifyou didn't start college on ascholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
INTERESTED??? CALL CAPTAIN DOMINGO 239-6264 
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAININC CORPS 
tain of the Irish women's basketball team. Conboy received a law degree in 1985 from Kansas and then joined the NCAA as an enforcement representative. She will serve Notre Dame as its liaison to the NCAA for legal compliance and certification. 
Mike Bobinski -Bobinski is in his fourth year as Ticket Manager and Assistant Busi­ness Manager. The 29-year-old Bobinski is a 1979 Notre Dame graduate and a former Irish baseball pitcher who returned to South Bend after two years in management audit and par­ticipant accounting with Dis­ney World in Orlando, Fla. He earned two letters as a right­handed pitcher and was a four­year member of the Irish start­inJ;~; rotation. 
Mike DeCicco -Better known as coach of the highly­successful Notre Dame fencing team, DeCicco doubles as Aca­demic Advisor for all Notre Dame athletes. Responsibility for the University's high graduation rate among its ath­letes lies mostly with DeCicco, whose task is to advise more than 500 athletes at Notre Dame. A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, DeCicco taught for a number of years in the Univer­sity's mechanical engineering department before giving up teaching to concentrate full­time on his job as Academic Advisor. His fencing teams have brought home an overall record of 502-40 (including a current 75-0 three-year winning streak) since 1962 and were winners of the national cham­pionships in both 1977, 1978 and 1986. 
John Heisler -Now in his sixth year as Associate Direc­tor of Sports Information at Notre Dame after four years as Assistant Director, the 33­year-old Heisler has had a large hand in the editing of a number of award-winning publications. Eleven have been judged "Best in the Nation" by College Sports Information Directors of America panels, including last seasons football guide. Before coming to Notre Dame, the South Bend native had been an Assistant Director at Missouri for one year, after serving as a student assistant at that school for four years and then graduating from Mis­souri's School of Journalism in 1976. 
Jim Daves -Daves begins his second year as Notre Dame's Assistant Sports Information Director. The 25-year-old Daves edits both football and basketball game programs and supervises press relations and publications for Notre Dame's non-revenue sports. Daves, a graduate of North Carolina Charlotte, served as the Mid­west Collegiate Conference's director of communications for a year before assuming his cur­rent post. 
. n

HAIR DESIGNS YOU CAN LIVE WITH 
MIct!fiL"~"' 256-5:00 
12' .· M1ICS NO SO BEND 2041 EIAELA 


,_,.,,~ ~--­
-=----:;-;-;-::: c A A p ETLAN D usA 
~.._---~ 


DORM ROOM 
RUG SALE! 
Being in College Doesn't Mean You Have to Live _ Like a _Paup~r! 
~DO W~R~1-:-H COLOR & SCFH,ESS '0 ANY DR~B ~OOM 
~ETLANDus• 
------------------~-~----------------------­




~c:tcJI.at~--------------------------------------------Sa-tu-rd-ay_,A_u_~_st_~_._l~-7---pa-ge-19
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
WHtJ IIKf 71{(; 51/Nf7fNI5Til5 ?.~ Ht'5 5t.IPP/N6WHY, JHef IlK~ 7H~ MIIR/JtKOW 
£/JITlJI(/flt.

KNOCK./ WH0'5 5!lNI11NI5Tf/5 l MllfW5T PrJfffl H(}f(/1~5 KNOCK/ 1H~f{f: r f'f<fPIIKIN&, €1/fN NOW, 1() WKM ST7?1116ffT W/feK€'5
\ • 'f JHf?.{}{/611 (..IJRU'O 7H6 VN/£5.1 JOKt 1! IIM6R1Cfl I 
5TIINIJ5 
mu_. 
/ 

ACROSS 1 "-the night before .••" 5 Belt 10 Singing 
brothers 14 Seaweed 16 Minn. town 18 Valley 17 Cosmos 20 Shore 21 Annoyed 22 Social Insect 23 West and 
Murray 26 Pepos 29 Powerfully 
attractive 33 Got down 34 Stupid one 35 Collection of 
sayings 38 Poisonous 
mushroom 40 Elec. unit 41 Soap plant 42 Ringlet 43 Errors CCl1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 08122187 46 Covers with 
All Rights Reserved Icing 47 Leprechaun 5 Gannets 28 Mel of 49 Wonder drug land 8 Rendezvous baseball 50 Verne captain 
48 Regret 7 Put to flight 29 Drudges 49 --Saxon 8 Jllllan or 30 Eur. river 52 Catastrophe Miller 
57 Ancient China 9 Taro food 31 Motionless 80 Govt. agents 10 Reluctant 32 Summons 51 Valley 81 Roman 34 Nearsighted 52 Raised 
magistrate person platform 82 Soon 11 Grade 53 9 Inches 83 Strop 12 More 37 Proportions 84 Pries 13 Descendants 38 Heb. measure 85 Aerie 18 Horae color 39 Sgt. 
19 Waltz capital 44 Moon goddess 54 Fork prong 
DOWN 23 Fr. river 55 Cupid 1 Ring decisions 24 Eager 58 Torn 2 Auxiliary verb 25 Lady 45 Railroad 3 "MASH" star 28 Varnish resin flares 58 Decimal base 4 Particular: 27 Speaks 48 Enlarge 59 Wedding 
abbr. Imperfectly 48 Moon valley words 

, ..,
USED FURNITURE 
Sofas Carpet Chairs Desks 

Butterflies from the wrong side of the meadow 


Freshmen 
.... 
Here's a great way to: 
• 
Meet lots of students 

• 
Get an extracurricular on your resume 

• 
Know what's really going on on campus 

• 
Maybe even make some money 


Check out our offices on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. You could be part of the staff of over 200 students who bring The Observer to the entire Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. We need reporters, photog­raphers, production personnel, even copy editors. Many freshmen hold key positions each year at The Observer. Be 
one of them. 
Recliners Lamps 
1\nollwood Country Club 
is looking for part-time waiters 
and waitresses for the formal and 
informal dining rooms. 
and much much more 
Paul Gill's 2nd Edition 
Can virtually guarantee $6.00 Au.
217 South LafayeHe 
no experience is necessary, will train. 
Call Tony at 277-1541 to set up an appointment
South Bend 46601 
or apply in person between 3 and 5 p.m. Tues-Fri.
288-7425 
Knollwood is located at 16633 Baywood Ln. 
Hours: M-F 10-6 Sat 10-5 
(Just off Grape Road) • 
~ 
~~,.~~
~ 

Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 

Saturday, August 22, 1987-page 20
s~~rts 
Holtz pleased early, but still too soon 
By MARTY STRASEN "Where we really have a long Assistant Sports Editor way to go is in the offensive and defensive line," Holtz said. Before anyone asks, the an­"Those are things that can be swer is "You just can't tell." worked on over the next few 
This is the time of the year weeks. It's just really hard to when all the questions, all the tell much of anything this ear­debating-and inevitably all the ly. optimism -begin. The season "We've had very physical opener against Michigan is ex­practices-even in shorts. We actly three weeks away, and have a lot of good athletes and everyone wants to know how I've been pleased with them." the Notre Dame football team Holtz has the first team of­is shaping up this fall. fense and defense in gold and 
"If I could evaluate a team green jerseys, respectively, in shorts, I'd be coaching bas­while the rest of the team ketball," Irish head coach Lou wears white (offense) and blue Holtz said. (defense). A few starting spots 
The Notre Dame freshman are still unclaimed, and pend­class reported early for a few ing academic decisions aren't days of orientation, and the re­helping the matter. turning players began two-a­Inside linebacker Mike day practices this past Mon­Stonebreaker, outside day. After three days in shorts, linebacker Cedric Figaro and the players put on pads for the center Jim Dadiotis are await­first time Thursday, and Holtz ing decisions concerning their has slated the team's second academic eligibility. fall scrimmage for this after­Figaro, a senior, has been noon. That's when Holtz and given permission to practice the staff should be able to tell until a decision is reached. The more. two sophomores have not and 
The first scrimmage was remain in streetclothes. 
The Observer/Joann Whitfield 
Junior linebacker Ned Bolcar (47) looks for the held Thursday, but the first In addition, Jason Cegielski easiest way past sophomore guard Dean Brown Strasen takes a look at the early days of fall in team and most of the regulars and John Zaleski have been dis­
(71) in one of the fall's first practices. Marty his story at right. sat out and watched the fresh­missed from the University for men, walk-ons and reserves 
Highly-regarded freshman class making adjustments to college 
t 
By MARTY STRASEN To that end, Irish head coach And after only a week of Assistant Sports Editor Lou Holtz gave the first team practice with the veterans and and many of his regulars a the initial few days of orienta­It was touted as possibly the breather in the first fall scrim­tion to the Irish football pro­best recruiting class in Notre mage Thursday afternoon. gram, most of the freshmenr Dame football history. While familiar names like Tim seem relatively comfortable 
I 
Notre Dame history. We're Brown, Terry Andrysiak, Mark with the system. talking 100 years here. Green and Darrell "Flash" But for now, the class of 1991 Gordon were making noise "It's very tiring and the guys 
has to take its lumps like every­cheering from the sidelines, are so much bigger and faster one else. And when the fresh­less-familiar names like Kent (than in high school)," said men d,onned pads and knocked Graham, Bobby Carpenter, Brooks, the former star run­heads with the veterans for the George Williams and Frank ning back at Tulsa's Washing­
first time in Thursday mor­Jacobs filled the Notre Dame ton High School. "They throw ning's session, the glory days videotapes. a lot of things at you, but you of high school never seemed so do what you have to do. I think far away. "We'd like· to see what they we all have a pretty good idea 
"Practices are really (the freshmen) can do and of what the coaches want from tough," said Ricky Watters, a where they can contribute," us by now." highly-touted running back Holtz said. "It's difficult to tell 
The class started out with 30
from Harrisburg, Pa. "They until we look at the films, but 
new faces, but is down to 29 be­
just expect great things from Ricky Watters and Tony 
cause of an injury to Brian
you, and that makes it difficult Brooks are doing some good 
Shannon, a 6-5, 230-pound
at first. things. "But once you get everything lineman from New Wil­'nte Observer/Joann Whitfield 
mington, Pa. Shannon broke
down and get the confidence of "They're all awfully good A pair of highly-touted freshmen team up on a play-action pass 
his left ankle in the Pennsylva­
the upperclassmen, it just gets athletes. Now it's going to take as Kent Graham (17) fakes a handoffto Tony Brooks (26). Marty
nia Big 33 all-star game earlier 
better and better. It's a big ad­some time to see if they're Strasen relates the progress of what some have called the best
this month and will be sidelined 
justment -we have to go out and going to be good college foot­recruiting class in ND history at left.
for the entire season.

prove ourselves." ball players." 
You brought your children to Notre Dame Let us bring Notre Dame home to you 
Subscribe to The Observer, the independent student newspaper serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
send to: 

Name .Enclosed Ia 
lhe Observer 

Addresa
$25 per semester P.O.BoxQ 







