Royal visit -page 3 

VOL. XXI, NO. 90 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Secret talks reportedly in progress on swap for hostages 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon Newspapers in London and Is­rael said Wednesday secret talks were going on for a major swap that would free foreign hostages in Lebanon in ex­change for 400 Arab prisoners. 
Lebanese Shiite leader Nabih Berri said there were no talks yet but indications were posi­tive. 
Berri, head of the main­stream Shiite movement Amal, made the original proposal on Saturday, setting off a frenzy of rumors, reports and specula­tion on the hostage crisis. 
Berri, who is also Lebanon's justice minister, proposed that Israel free 400 Arab prisoners. In return, Amal would return a captured Israeli airman and a Moslem extremist organiza­tion would free the four kid­napped educators -three Americans and an Indian -it was threatening to kill. 
On Wednesday, the Israeli newspaper Davar said Israel and the United States were negotiating a multinational deal to free all captives held in Lebanon by pro-Syrian and pro-Iranian groups, with Israel freeing 400 Arabs. 

Davar, which has close ties to Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres' Labor Party, said the deal involved the Swiss and Syrian governments and the International Committee of the Red Cross. The swap would include releasing the airman captured in October and three Lebanese Jews seized in Beirut last year. 
The paper datelined its report from Washington and quoted unidentified American and Israeli sources. 

''Hackeying'' 

John Lamson enjoys a game of hackey sack day's mild temperatures enticed many students with his friends in the courtyard behind the to spend time outdoors. 
Clarke Peace Memorial on Wednesday. The 
Alumni Associations to host spring break student center 
By KAREN WEBB 
Copy Editor 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Alumni Associations will collaborate with alumni from the Ft. Lauderdale area to provide a hospitality center for students over spring break for the fourth consecutive year. 
The center, with the Alumni Association van and a tent ser­ving as its headquarters at the Riviera Motel in Ft. Lauder­dale, will provide information on the area and will also serve as a meeting place and mes­sage center for students. 
The activities the center sponsors offer an alternative to drinking, said Chuck Lennon, executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. He said students have told mem­hers of the association that "all ther~ is to do is to walk the beach and to drink," at Ft. Lauderdale during break. 
But, Lennon said, "We thought there might be some other things to do, and the stu­dents helped plan all the (activities)." 
According to Lennon, some of the activities the center sponsors are baseball games, deep-sea fishing, and transpor­tation to movies and shopping malls. 
New this year will be a bookstore basketball competi­tion, "the Southern Division," Lennon said. "We did it as a trial basis last year and it really went over well." 
In addition, the center will 
see BREAK, page 5 

An Israeli Foreign Ministry official refused to confirm or deny the Davar report. 
Israeli officials have ex­pressed doubt that Berri could deliver on promises involving organizations not his own. 
Berri's militiamen do hold, however, the navigator of an Israeli Phantom fighter­bomber shot down over south Lebanon Oct. 1. 
In Washington on Wednes­day, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater insisted anew that the United States is not in­volved in talks with Israel about hostages and said, "We have not urged Israel or any other country to be involved in a deal with the hostage takers." 
The London Times said Wed­nesday a "wide-ranging deal" was in the works involving th€: four educators, the Israeli air­man and Arab prisoners. 
It said the negotiations fol­lowed "months of secret con­tacts between the Israelis and guerrilla leaders in southern Lebanon" through the Red Cross. 
Red Cross headquarters in 
see HOSTAGES, page 4 


Reagan responds to questions about selling arms to Iran 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan answered questions from an investigatory board about the Iran arms-sale affair Wednesday, as the White House defended Reagan's refusal to order two key figures ill" the case to testify. 
For the second time in 17 days, Reagan met in the Oval Office with members of the review board headed by former Sen. John Tower, R-Texas. He appointed the panel Nov. 26 to investigate the activities of the National Security Council staff, including the secret sale of arms to Iran and diversion of profits to Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
At the request of the board, Reagan granted a one-week ex­tension, until Feb. 26, for the panel to submit its final report. The report originally was due Jan. 29, but the board was granted a delay until Feb. 19. 
Reporting on Reagan's 70­minute session with the board, presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, "Today's meeting reviewed the National Security Council process and the development and execution of the Iran policy and the pres­ident's role. The president an­swered all of the board's ques­tions." 
Fitzwater said the board asked for more time to submit its findings in order "to com­prehensively deal with all the information it has obtained." 
Herbert Hetu, the board's spokesman, said more time was sought because of "a recent acquisition of new ma­terial." 
He would not elaborate, ex­cept to say the request was not the result of the meeting with 
see ARMS, page 5 

Digger discusses religion, sports 
By KAREN WEBB 
Copy Editor 
Digger Phelps, head coach of the Notre Dame basketball team, spoke to an audience on "The Catholic Experience and Sports" Wednesday at Saint Mary's, saying "When you believe in something, you have to go for it." 
During the lecture, the fourth in a series sponsored by the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's, Phelps ex­amined the impact of sports on society and the impact of society on sports. "We live in a nation that gives us freedoms, as Catholics, Chris­tians, or people," and with this freedom comes the re­sponsibility of making deci­sions, he said. 
Phelps spoke of the conflict during the last two decades between student athletics and the educational system when 

Digger Phelps 
"kids (were) getting $10,000 under the table. It's a quick fix. It's wrong. They end up with nothing after their careers in basketball." 
He said this type of exploita­tion illustrating the terminol­ogy "No. 1 at any cost," is destructive to the educational process of the student athlete. 
"When our education sys­tem breaks down, when dis­cipline and curriculum disap­pear ... and when there is no community commitment, then your educational process is not in tune," he said. 
But "as time went on, you knew things were going to change, because you knew you were right," he said, re­ferring to his advocation for more emphasis on the student athlete's education. 
"And then of course I had to defend it. I had to speak up, speak out. 
see DIGGER, page 4 

-
In Brief 
The Fort Howard Paper Comp~ny has awar~ed the University a $100,000 gift to endow a hbrary coll~chon of source materials in European history. Accordmg to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, "The Fort Howard Paper Company's generosi.ty gi~es u~ a w?n­derful opportunity to strengthen the _l!~1ver~1ty Ltbranes in a most important area. The acqutsthons 1t makes pos­sible will enrich history scholarship at Notre Dame for years to come." The Fort Howard Paper Company is a manufacturer of disposable products for the restaurant and food service industries. -The Observer 
The National Student Roundtable, representing students and recent graduates from 3,200 colleges, will lobby Congress for expanded tuition grants. The group's goal is to prevent "a generation of indentured stude~ts," says John Skare, executive director and a recent Umver­sity of Wisconsin graduate. -The Observer 
Police inNew Orleans are hunting for a tall, slender man who stomps on women's feet. Eight women have told police that a man deliberately stepped hard on their feet while they were walking down Canal Street, a busy street between the French Quarter and central business district. Wendy Melancon said that although she was stomped Nov. 13 she didn't report it until Tuesday, after she read a n~ws report about a similar case. "I thought it was an accident," she saiil. -Associated Press. 
The Reagan administration proposed legislation Wednesday to permanently ban federal financing of abor­tions except where the life of the mother is threatened, and to deny family planning money to private groups that also perform abortions. 
A third part of the measure sent. to Congress ~y HeB:lth and Human Services Secretary Ohs Bowen, while havmg no legal effect, would put Congress on record as urging the Supreme Court to reverse the 1973 decision legalizing abortion. -Associated Press 
The movie "Hoosiers" received two Academy Award nominations Wednesday, for. Best Supporting Actor and Best Original Musical Score. The movie, most ofwhich was filmed in Indiana, is based on a Hoosier high school basketball team's journey to the state tournament in the 1950's. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
The Washington Semester Program will hold an information meeting Friday at 4: 15 in room 131 Decio Hall. For more information please contact Dr. Frederick Wright at 345 O'Shaughnessy Hall, phone 239-5628. -The Observer 
Third World Awareness Week continues today with a hunger banquet at 5:30 p.m. at the Center For Social Concerns. This will be followed by "A Sample of Life in a Base Community" at 6:30 and Dr. David Ruccio's talk, "The Interdependent Latin American and U.S. Eco­nomics." These events are sponsored by World Hunger Coalition, CILA, SOLA and the Overseas Development Network. -The Observer 
I 

Weather 
Spring Break is only one month away, but with this mild winter, one al­most wants to stay in South Bend. Not really, you say? Well, keep in mind that today highs will be in the upper 30s to almost 40. A partially cloudy sky will persist throughout the day. Expect lows in the 20s tonight. Friday will be sunny with highs in the low to mid 30s. -Asso­ciated Press 


Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick De•ign Assistant .. .. .. ... .. .. . Lisa Tugman 
Design Editor ..................... Rob Luxem 
Viewpoint Layout ............... Alice Groner Layout Staff.......... . ............. Bob White 
Accent Copy Editor......... Tracie Fetters ................................... Eileen Lawerence 
Accent Layout ...... Kathleen Moran Typesetter ............................ Jose Novas 
Typist .. .. . ... .. .. .. ... . .. .. .. . .. .. . Colleen Foy .................................. Becky Gunderman 
ND Day Editor ................. Jane Kravcik News Editor .................. Ann Kaltenbach 
SMC Day Editor ..... Therese Harrington Copy Editor ................... Rachael Jarosh 
Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Sports Copy Editor ............. Terry Lynch 
Pllotographer ... Paul Oeschger 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (525 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. · . . The Observer is a member of The Associaled Press. All reproduction nghts are 
~·,,.... ,.r~tll! ·' , ........... "· .. :• ~ ... • • • '._ .•.•. ., .. • • • • • "' .......... ·· • .. · ..... •·· ....... ·· · "· 


Sensitivity should be applied in printing graphic photos 
Tripp Baltz 
News Editor 



A Pennsylvania state treasurer recently put 
a .357 Magnum in his mouth and blew his head off before two dozen shocked reporters. 
The man had been under a great deal of stress. He faced 55 years of prison for five counts of mail fraud, four counts of interstate transportation in aid of racketeering, one count of perjury, and one count of conspiracy to com­mit bribery. 
With all the journalists there, the brutal self­killing naturally hit the pages of several newspapers and found its way into evening news broadcasts. The suicide became very widely-publicized. 
Two days later, a teenager in nearby York, Penn., took his own life by allegedly firing a gun in his mouth. 
The public will remain unaware of the cir­cumstances surrounding the teenager's suicide. The death of the treasurer, however, became a huge media issue. 
Television stations in Pennsylvania broad­casted a tape of the treasUlrer's self-shooting, from when the trigger was pulled to when the body struck the floor. 
Several newspapers and journals printed graphic, revealing photographs of the suicide. 
According to John Cialdini, a social psychol­ogist, the suicide rate goes up in an area where a highly publicized suicide takes place. Cialdini also claims that fatal car accidents and plane disasters increase greatly after an area is in­formed of a suicide. 
People are more likely to choose an action or behavior once they observe others performing in that manner. Cialdini likens the behavior of people to a herd of buffalo. He says buffalo blindly follow the other animals around them in a stampede and could in this way be driven off a cliff (North American Indians capitalized on this phenomena). 
Existence of this phenomena does not imply that the reponsibility of the press to print stories about suicides and brutal murders becomes questionable. 
Clearly, also, the blame for the repercussions that follow an objectively reported news event does not belong with the media who presented it. The event happened; the media is not the cause. The individuals in society commit the aftereffects. 
The point of contention in such stories is the extreme to what journalists will go to report the news through photographs and video tapes. 
Photographs are used in a newspaper be­cause they humanize an event. The reader feels the emotion of the incident captured on film. 
The recent media portrayals of the violent death of the Pennsylvania treasurer went beyond the allowable extremes to which a re­sponsible journalist should take an event. 
A man firing a gun in his mouth is something that cannot be humanized on film. The aghast reporters were faced with both the responsibilty to report the news in full form and an event so gruesome that reporting it crossed the border of what's fit to be seen. 
Sensitivity applied to the issue of printing photos should be accompanied by a sense of humanization. The extreme to which an event is portrayed is linked to the effect it makes on its audience. 
Bloody pictures may sell papers, but it also may cause someone to pull the trigger. 

IMPORTANT JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND NOTICE 
As the Junior Parents· Weekend draws closer, the JPW Executive Committee has begun to finalize most or the plans for the weekend. Therefore, It Is Important to bring to the attention or those attending JPW events the following items: 
EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY: No more tickets will be sold to the Dinner or Brunch. Only those people who have paid for their tickets are guaranteed seats at these events. 
EFFECTIVE AS OF FRIDAY FEBRUARY 13: All balances mu:;t be paid on tickets. Those people who have not paid their balance as or this day will forfeit their tickets and be reimburst any money already paid. 
Refunds after this day wi II only be for SOX of the orlgional paid cost. No refunds will be taken after Friday, February 20. 
IN ADDITION: 

A make-up day for table reservations Is scheduled for Thursday, February 12. I r table reservations have not been made by this date, people will lle assigned to tables by the JPW Committee. 
REGISlllATION for Junior Parents· Weekend will begin on Tuesday, Febru:!ry 17. Time and place will be posted elsewhere. 
The abo~e notice has been a result of many outstanding balances and a need to limit the number of people attending the dinner and brunch due to space restrictions. This notice applies to everyone attending the JPW events, regardless of previous arrangements. 
If you have problems or questions regarding the Junior Parents• Weekend or the above notice, please vislt the JPW office on the second floor of Lafortune, leave a message in the JPW mailbox in the Student Activities Office on the third floor of. Lafortune, or 
contact: 

Denise Wets 319 Breen Phillips •1317 or •1536 
t .. ••
t 
" . 

-------~--~~~-~~--­
The Observer Thursday, February 12, 1987-page 3 

Lawyer says McFarlane singled out unfairly 
Associated Press testify on Capitol Hill and else­on Wednesday, two days after participants have refused to 
where. he swallowed between 25 and answer questions. 
WASHINGTON Robert President Reagan, mean­30 tablets of the tranquilizer Two of the people reported to McFarlane, the former time, is "very· concerned and Valium. be principals in the deal to sell presidential aide who is upset for Bud," said White McFarlane was listed in good U.S. arms to Iran -Lt. Col. recovering from a drug House spokesman Marlin condition, said Lt. Russ San­Oliver North, a former Na­overdose, has been picked on Fitzwater, using the nickname ford, a hospital spokesman. tional Security Council aide, unfairly because he's the only of the former national security Sanford refused to say what and Vice Adm. John Poindex­key figure cooperating in the adviser who, police sources type of treatment doctors were ter, the ex-NSC chief -invoked investigations of the sale of said, tried to commit suicide giving McFarlane. their constitutional right to 
U.S. weapons to Iran, his Monday. "He's feeling OK," said Gar­remain silent when called to lawyer said Wednesday. Reagan telephoned McFar­ment, who did not know how testify on Capitol Hill. 
"He's the only game in town lane's wife, Jonda, on Tuesday, long the retired Marine Moreover, Reagan refused to for the press to write about and but has not spoken to McFar­lieutenant colonel would order Poindexter, who some members of Congress to lane, White House officials remain in the hospital. "I just succeeded McFarlane at the complain about," attorney said. hope he gets well as soon as NSC, or North to appear before Leonard Garment said, noting McFarlane, 49, remained possible." a three-member presidential that his client-unlike other im­hospitalized at Bethesda Naval Garment said he was angry commission investigating the portant players-volunteered to Hospital in suburban Maryland because McFarlane's tes­Iran-Contra case, Fitzwater 
Man tries to gain entry to royal palace 
Associated Press 
LONDON -A man at­tacked two officers with a knife and hammer in the Kensington Palace garden early Wednesday, but did not get inside where Prince Charles, Princess Diana and other members of the royal family slept, police said. 
'l'he masked intruder was tackled and handcuffed before he could breach the 


(behlad s...., s....loolch.) 

$6
Queen'• Ca1tle AThe Knight. atudent S8.50 
CUf ~8 

AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
••aLJo f-t•l'• tile Ro"al Bl'o...a S••..•nl•a c..t... See a ta•l• •l••t... .. Not Ho•l'• 





The Hall President's Council would like to extend a sincere THANK YOU to all those who helped to organize and who participated in the Aerobathon for the UNITED WAY last November 

Especially: 
Bill Hickey and Lisa 
-N D Food Services 

Sally Derengoski 
-NVA 

The Crystal Light Aerobics Team 
ND Chapter of 



the Red Cross 
Thanks to you we were able 
to raise over $700 
for UNITED WAY!! 

timony before several congres­sional panels investigating the sale of U.S. arms to Iran and the possible diversion of profits to Nicaraguan Contra rebels has been scrutinized intensely for holes and discrepancies. 
"Everyone is picking on what he said," Garment said in an interview. "I think it's un­fair because the discrepancies are not really discrepancies," but simply one side of the story because most of the central said. 
The board, chaired by former Sen. John Tower, R­Texas, had asked Reagan as commander-in-chief to order both men to appear before the panel, which is expected to finish its report by Feb. 19. 
McFarlane was to make his second appearance before the Tower commission the day he was rushed to the hospital suf­fering from the drug overdose. 

Show NO or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 
18081 State RC*I 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 48837. (21 9) 277·2870 
wall around the 17th century red-brick palace near em­bassy row in southwest Lon­don's fashionable Ken­sington district, Scotland Yard reported. The two policemen suffered minor injuries. 
Scotland Yard said Bela Stifter, a 27-year-old un­employed man from Reading in Berkshire, west of London, was charged with being equipped for theft and causing bodily harm to the two policemen from the Royalty and Diplomatic Protection Group. 
Kensington Palace, on the western edge of Kensington Gardens near Hyde Park, has been the London home for princes, princesses and royal dukes and duchesses since the mid-18th century. 

3BP ITBf\TE SuN. IS Fib.
E 

--·· ........ ····-....................... ---.--... -...... .. ---..
.. .. ___ -. ·---·····-­



Students to prepare tax returns 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Certified public accoun­tants from several area firms are joining Notre Dame and Saint Mary's accounting stu­dents to prepar~ income tax returns for low income families and senior citizens for the sixteenth year, accor­ding to Kenneth Milani, asso­ciate professor and Arthur Young faculty fellow in taxa­tion. 
"We are on campus for staff and for others. We're at the Center for Social Concerns on Wednesdays from 2:30 to 5 p.m.," Milani said. 
The income tax return ser­vice will run from February 7 until April 15. 
He added the program is de­signed for anyone un­employed or in a low income 

Hostages 
continuedfrom page 1 
range of $20,000 and below. "The returns are free of charge. We don't charge for our service," Milani added. 
According tn Milani, there are a combined total of 45 stu­dents from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. "We normally have between 40 and 50 stu­dents," he said. "Students sign up for a one credit hour course which is graded on a satisfactory, unsatisfactory basis," Milani said. "They put in 8 to 10 hours for the training, and then they work between 3 to 5 hours a week." 
According to Milani, one of the benefits of the program is that "basically they're (the students) dealing with real world problems, and you're talking about real dollars. For many students this is the first time this has happened.'' 
The CPA firms involved are 
all located in South 
BeP.d. "The combination of 
local, regional and national 
CPA firms that help have of­
fices in South Bend," Milani 
said. 

These firms are Coopers and Lybrand, Crowechizek and Co., Ernst and Whinney, Metzger and Co., and Price Waterhouse. Milani said there are between 15 to 20 total accountants who act as students' advisors. 
Last year the students and accountants "did 1800 federal and state tax returns,'' he said. 
Services are rendered Mon­days from 5 to 8 p.m. at the Northeast Neighborhood Cen­ter, and on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays at various locations in the South Bend;Mishawaka area. 
~:!~t~ City Wide Liouors 
~·;,;.~·~ 3825 North Grape Road, Mishawla 272-2274 
Geneva denied it was involved 
Beer {cases)
Liquor

in negotiations. 
Berri told a news conference in Damascus, the &yrian capi­tal, there have been no secret negotiations for an exchange of captives, but he added, "There are some positive indications that such a swap can be worked out." 
Berri noted that "Israel has not refused the swap opera­tion." 
He also cited the decision by 
1.75 liters Glenmora Vodka...$7.99 750 ml Windsor Canadian...$4.99 
1.75 liters Old Thompson...$8.99 (blend) 750 ml Peach Tree Schnapps...$4.99 

Bud Quarts..$10.99 Bud & Bud Lite (24 cans)..$7.79 Miller Lite (24 cans) ..$7.99 Hamm's (24 cans) ..$5.99 

Islamic Jihad for the Libera-------------L--------------­tion of Palestine, the group which seized four teachers 
Call us for price quotes on your SYR parties 
from Beirut University College 
on Jan. 24, to extend "until fur­
ther notice" last Monday's Prices good thru Feb 15 
midnight deadline to kill them. •••••••••••••••••••••••• 





SAMBO! 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY. 

MARCH 19! 

WE LOVB YOU, BOY! 
MOM, DAD I MIKE, BERYL, PHILLIP, VINCENT I SUSAN, BI MARTHA, CHIP/ CELIA 1 CLAIRE AND PHILIP 

Thursday, February 12, 1987-page 4 
Digger 
continuedfrom page 1 
"That's the politics you go through in life. When you believe in a cause, or when there is social injustice, or when you see things out there that are wrong to live with or live by," then action should be taken, Phelps said. 
"I think at times we think 
there's no hope. Or we think 
we can't change. But you have 
to look out and say, when it 
Be 




afull­
time 
all began, there was a man named Christ. And he had to make a decision and he was alone. Yet he knew what was (right) and wasn't afraid to go after it. 
"It was that simple back then, lets keep it simple today, because all we do is try to complicate it in between. 
He added, "So when you see something that's wrong, why not stand up and speak out? Isn't that what Christ did?" 
student 
and 



apart-time 
Ranger. 
Ifyou're highly competiti\'e and in 
top physical condition, you might want to become part of Ranger Challenge in the Army Rcscn·c Officers' Training Corps. 
Its a program of intense mental and physical challenges. And if you're among the best, you could represent your college and your cadre during the national competitions at the Army ROTCs summer Advanced Camp. 
Ranger Challenge is anything but easy. But it is the most rigomus, rewarding and exciting experience on campus. 
To find out more about enrolling in Army ROTC, and for complete details on the Army ROTCs Ranger Challenge, talk to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
INTERESTED? Call Capt. Domingo 
239-6264 

' 
en 
w ~ 
u 

.. 
.. ~ • 1 
.•. 

The Observer Thursday, February 12, 1987-page 5 

Arms 
continued/rom page 1 
Reagan, the board's review of Reagan's notes or the hospitalization of former na­tional security adviser Robert McFarlane, who took an over­dose of the tranquilizer Valium on Monday. 
The meeting came one day after the White House revealed that Reagan had turned down a request from Tower that he order former aides John Poin­dexter and Oliver North to ap­pear before the board and an­swer questions. 
Tower had asked Reagan to issue the order in his role as commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Poindexter, who quit as Reagan's national se­curity adviser because of the Iran-Contra affair, is a Navy vice admiral on active duty; North, who was fired in the af­fair, is a lieutenant colonel in the Marines. 
Fitzwater said that ordering the men to testify would violate their constitutional rights against self-incrimination, and a similar guarantee provided by the Uniform Code of Mili­tary Justice, which covers ser­vicemen. 
''As a practical matter, if the order was given ... it would be an illegal order, therefore they would not have to comply on the one hand," Fitzwater said. 
"Or, if they chose to comply with an illegal order and tes­tify, they would make them­selves -put themselves -in a position where, in effect, total 
I--------------1111111!!~···$50 
I 

I I 
I $50 Coupon for: I I Indoor Soccer I I Sign-up at I I South Bend Turners I I Ironwood at the Toll Rd. I
I* 8 game session starting Feb. 16.1 
I * Weeknights 10 pm • ? I 
I* $50 deposit required per 15 I I member team (total fee·$350) I 1THIS COUPON EXPIRES FEB. 13 1 1 Call 277·0851 for more informatioiJ I Indiana's First Built I
550 550
I Indoor Soccer Arena I 
immunity would be granted be­cause in any subsequent prose­cution it could be argued that their testimony was gained il­legally," Fitzwater said. 
"Therefore, the immunity question was a part of that deci­sion, but all the way through, whether it was immunity or il­legality, the answer had to be no," the spokesman added. 
North and Poindexter both have invoked the Fifth Amend­ment and refused to answer questions from congressional committees. 

Break 
continued/rom page 1 
provide a free WATS line en­abling students to telephone anywhere in the country except Florida and Hawaii at no charge, he said, adding, "Last year, 22,000 calls were made." The center is the only one of 
In other developments Wed­nesday: 
-The speaker of Iran's parli­ament, Hashemi Rafsanjani, said the United States had made a new attempt "a few days ago" to contact Iranian leaders and even provided a direct telephone number for Reagan, according to Tehran radio. 
The report did not identify the intermediary who con­tacted Iranian officials and gave no indication of Iran's reponse. The United States has maintained there has been no contact with Iran since mid-
its kind, according to Lennon. "It is really unique," he said, referring to the national media coverage the program received during its first year of operation. "It takes time and money, and at least one staff member (from Notre Dame or Saint Mary's) must be there." Lennon said he will be there as in past years. 

December. 
Fitzwater, saying he checked at the White House and State Department with people who should know, said, "We have no indication of anyone having talked to him (Rafsanjani) ... or to anybody." 
-White House telephones and computer equipment installed in the homes of McFarlane and Poindexter were disconnected last Nov. 25, the same day that it was disclosed that money was skimmed from the Iran arms deals for the Contras, Fitzwater said. 
The program has proven suc­cessful because "the students keep inviting us back. We don't go back unless the students in­vite us. That's the only reason we're there," he said. 
Moreover, the center hasn't encountered many problems in dealing with students because the center's function is clear, Lennon said. 
"I'm not your local (parent), a local bondsman or a babysit­ter," he said. "I'm there to pro­vide a service. Students seem to like it and have a good time. 
"It's fun to see (the alumni) relate to students," he said, adding, "It's a fun kind of thing." 
Lennon said between 400 and 600 students are received at the center each year. 
Coca-Cola Inc., will also hell= sponsor the program, makin~ a contribution and donating $1,000 worth of products, Len­non said. "Each student will receive a free six-pack of Coke for the ride home," he said. 


i Lordy Lordy, i i• fOLEY'S fORTY... i• i Happy Birthday, i 
• ~Professor Richard Fole:if:• 
• 

.: • L ? * :•• 
ove, . 
• 
---~-----....1 


Unraveling life's rich pageant 
Students unroll a R.E.M. poster while browsing through the pos­ter sale in LaFortune Student Center on Wednesday. The sale is being held today and Friday from 10 a.m. until 4:30p.m. in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Hesburgh to 
sit on panel 
discussion 
onWTBS 
University President Fa­ther Theodore M. Hesburgh, will be a member of a panel discussing the nuclear di­lemma tonight at 10:05 on WTBS, a component of the Turner Broadcasting Sys­tem. 
"Breaking the Spell II: A 
U.S. -Soviet Dialogue" will be an hourlong discussion of a Soviet drama, "Letters from a Dead Man," set in a Russia devastated by a nu­clear attack of unspecified origin triggered by a Soviet computer error. 
The film, dubbed into En­glish by Turner Broadcast­ing, will be shown prior to the panel discussion. 
Panel participants include Georgi Arbatov, director of the Institute of U.S.A. and Canada Studies at the Soviet Academy of Science, Carl Sagan, astronomer and au­thor, and Ronald Sagdeef, director of the Institute for Cosmic Research, also at the Soviet Academy of Sci­ence. 
They will speak about developments in American­Soviet relations since their last WTBS colloquy, "Breaking the Spell," in Jan­uary 1985, which addressed proposals for reducing nu­clear arsenals and minimiz­ing the chances of war. 
The program is one of five specials being shown on WTBS under the auspices of the Better World Society, a nonprofit organization dedi­cated to fostering awareness ofglobal-i.;;sues.. . . "._ .... _ . 
Ticket Sales for 
Police stop Soviet demonstrations 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Plainclothesmen pushed protesters out of a shop­ping mall Wednesday, the third day of demonstrations for release of a Jewish activist not · included in the Kremlin pardon that freed 140 other imprisoned dissidents. 
The protestors also demon­strated for the right to emi­grate. They carried placards reading, "Let us go to Israel" and "Free Josef Begun," who was given a seven-year prison term in October 1983. 
U.S. Ambassador Arthur Hartman called the mass release a "step in the right di­rection," but he said the United States continues pressing for freer emigration. 
He said at a news conference he had appealed to Soviet aut­horities to let dissident Naum Meiman attend his wife's fu­neral in the United States. 
Inna Meiman, 54, died Mon­day in Washington, where she had received cancer treatment since leaving the Soviet Union last month. Hartman said the refusal since 1975 to grant Meiman an exit visa violated "Soviet practice and Soviet law." 
"In the last little while, the Soviet government has recog­nized that their treatment of in­dividuals has had an effect on their relations with other countries," the ambassador said. 
"They have been moving to dampen that effect. I don't 
on sale for $2.00 in the 
Black Studies Office
BCAF 

345 O'Shag
TALENT 

T,Th 2-4; M,W,F 8-12 
SHOW 

in advance only. 
think it's because they've changed their basic approach to the relation of the individual to the state." 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov said at a news briefing Tuesday that 140 dissidents had been released and as many other cases were being examined. His announce­ment has not been reported to the Soviet public. 
Gerasimov also said govern­ment commissions were reviewing the criminal code, but he gave no details. 
About 20 Soviets who have been refused emigration visas gathered Wednesday morning for their third day of protest in the Arbat shopping malL 
Authorities put Begun's wife Inna and son Boris under house arrest Tuesday. 

~~~ssssss~~~~~~~~~~ssssssss~~~~~~ssssss~~~~~~~ssss~ 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD University of Notre Dame 
presents 

$PR/NfJ BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
RiRht on the beach * RiRht in the middle ol the Sttip 
Driving PackafJe 


J. 189
Without Transportation Ill.. ., .. Quad Occupancy ... 
Full PackafJe 
J.219

1st deposit With Transportalton Ill.. ., Quad Occupancy ...
Deadline: 
March 13-22. 1987
Feb 20! 

To Sign Up 
Call 239-77rj'i' 
YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: 
• 
Seven nights accommodations at the totally new Riviera Resort Hotel. located right in the middle of the strip at 505 North Atlantic (A1A). This hotel has been totally reno· vated, making it one of the nicest hotels in the middle of the strip. The Riviera has a great cafe restaurant. one of the nicest pool decks anywhere. pool bar. and a ni9ht· club. Available are hotel rooms for four people and su1tes that sleep six (with kitchenette). Both have air condition­ing. color TV. and great new furnishings~ 

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury high­way coaches to Ft. Lauderdale. Florida leaving Friday. March 13. Unlike others. we use the newest style buses available. 

• 
Pool deck parties every other day. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts for you to use to save money at places you would go anyway. 

• 
The services of full time travel representatives available daily to throw parties and take good care of you. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. NOTRE 


Arrangements by 
ECHO TRAVEL INC. 
~­

-----·"l-
Thursday, February 12, 1987-page 7 
The Observer 
Liberace's AIDS should be secret, says AMA executive 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The public has no right to know that entertainer Liberace had AIDS or that a hospital doctor suffers from the deadly disease, a top executive of the American Medical Asso­ciation said Wednesday. 
The medical history of a pa­tient, even one who is a public figure or a doctor, should be confidential unless the individ­ual's condition poses a threat to society, said Dr. James Todd. 
A different view was offered by Dennis O'Leary, President Reagan's attending physician when Reagan was the victim of an assassination attempt and now Mad of the Joint Commis­sion on Accreditation of Hospi­tals. 
"Anytime you become a public figure, you do yield some of your right to privacy," O'Leary said. 
Todd, senior deputy execu­tive vice president of the Chicago-based AMA, discussed medical-records confiden­tiality with O'Leary and two other panelists who represented hospitals and in­surers at the American College of Healthcare Executives' 30th annual meeting. 
Todd criticized the media's "insatiable desire to know what's going on." 
Noting casual contact does not spread AIDS, he also said "a person sitting in the front row of a Las Vegas casino" who shook Liberace's hand doesn't need to know the entertainer suffered from acquired im­mune deficiency syndrome. 
O'Leary said there may be some need for publicity in the case of Liberace's death last week. He cited reports that in­formation may have been im­properly withheld on the death certificate. 
"We need balance here" in deciding access to confidential information, O'Leary said. 
Todd also said the name of a Cook County Hospital doctor with AIDS, suspended last week but later reinstated to restricted duty with no patient contact', should remain con­fidential. 
There's virtually no chance a doctor would transmit the dis­ease to patients if he followed proper guidelines, Todd said, adding it's up to a physician to notify patients "one-on-one." 
AIDS destroys the body's im­mune system, leaving victims prey to life-threatening infec­tion. It is caused by a virus, believed transmitted by blood or semen. 
Todd said employers should not have access to an individ­ual's medical records unless the employee or applicant suf­fers from a disease that could affect job performance. He also said individual health records should be withheld from insurance companies pro­viding group employee coverage. 
O'Leary said if an individual tests positive for AIDS an­tibodies, meaning he has been 
~~ ro , 
~ 00 -~ ,
0 ~ ~"' ,
~\o 0q~o~' Now you can
'}," o<$ ov ' ' 
~oo;'\<'':.,' look & feel ~:, great all year I 
Call us at 
272-7653 

] ··-·····­
exposed to the disease, it's the responsibility of the individual -not a hospital or doctor -to report it to the employer or in­surance company. 
But Todd said such a finding is not an employer's concern, unless the individual's job carries a risk of transmission. 
He noted some life insurance companies won't write policies for those who test positive for AIDS exposure, even if the in­dividual has not developed the disease. 
Kenneth Krispin, executive vice president of Mass Insur­ance Consultants Administra­tors Inc., a third-party insur­ance provider, said insurers "increasingly are put under greater demand by corpora­tions to get more information" on workers' medical history. 
"Ifyou're putting out billions of dollars a year" to provide health care to employees, Krispin said, "then don't you have a right to know?" 
Todd countered, "What is the intent of that corporation? It's not quality health care, it's dol­lars and cents. You don't need the individual's patient record." 
The college adopted a con­fidentiality policy at its five­day meeting that includes a call for medical workers to limit access to patient informa­tion to authorized staff only, and to "adopt a specialized process to protect sensitive in­formation such as psychiatric or substance abuse treatment records." 


What's Next? 
A sales career with us! 
Appleton Papers is the world's leading producer of carbonless paper and is a nationally renowned coater and finisher of other specialty papers and non papers. 
On Thursday, February 19, we will be Interviewing spring graduates in mar­keting, business administration and arts and letters professional administration. 
Please contact the Career and Placement Services Office for further details. 
We invite you to learn more about us during a reception on .. Wednesday, February 18, 8-10 p.m. in the Alumni Room at the Morris Inn. Refreshments will follow. 
& 

APPLETON PAPERS INC. 
GENERAL OFFICES: APPLETON, WISCONSIN 54912 A Member of the BATUS Group. 





"ie~~~O~i~D~t_____________Th-ursda~y,F-ebrua~ry12-,198~7-pa-ge8 
Drinking alcohol inherently involves taking risks 
Editor's Note: The following is the d · · 0..r l ov "ded 
secon tn a senes J co umns pr t
b the University Counseling Center. 
Y 

Alcoholism has been written about, lectured about, and preached about to the point that many people "turn off" at the mention of another alcohol presentation or article. There is a subtle message that plays in many people's minds when they h~ar about 
problem drinking and its sign~. a11:d symptoms. The me~sage s~ys:. T~Is 
has nothing to do with me. Thmkmg about one's own possible drinking prob­}em often produces the "illusion of im­munity." Discussion about problem drinking is often like a hot potato that is quickly passed to the guy next door. 
Sally Coleman 
guest column 
The realistic challenge to anyone who drinks any kind of alcoholic beverage is to discard the illusion of immunity and hold the hot potato long enough to assess his or her own drinking as ob­jectively as possible. 
Loren Archer, acting director of the National Insitute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, stated that the term "responsible use of alcohol" should be "purged" from our vocabulary when talking about youths as well as adults. He added that use of alcohol is "not a responsible behavior, but a ris~­taking behavior.'' This statement nei­ther condones nor condemns the use of alcohol but recognizes it as a central nervous system depressant drug with risks involved for those who use it. This new awareness, which dispels the myth of "responsible drinking," is becoming the public policy of state and individual prevention specialists. A more appro­priate focus might be that of encourag­ing the development of responsible at­titudes regarding the use of alcohol. 
Archer believes that everyone who ingests a mood-changing chemicals ris­king harmful negative consequences. Genetically, environmentally, aml!or emotionally, the risk factor seems to be greater for at least 10 per~ent of _our population who develop a sertous drink­ing problem. 
If you have been suffering from the 
illusion of immunity, you might have a 
drinking problem and know it. One of 

Doonesbury 
the best ways to personally assess your drinking behavior is simply to compare your drinking with the symptoms of problem drinking. 
A general definition of problem drink­ing is: if alcohol causes an ongoing problem in one or more major life areas, then alcohol is a problem. 
The first part of a personal assess­ment would be to investigate your major life areas. On paper, write out what these imporant areas might be for you.. Some examples are: family,
friends and other relationships; aca­demic aml!or employment; self-esteem; financial; legal; physical; spiritual. 
The next step is to do a detailed writ­ten inventory of specific difficulties you've experienced in these areas and to examine your drinking in relation­ship to these difficulties. After you finish, ask some relatives or friends who know you well (not a drinking com­panion) to review your list with you. Ask them to tell you honestly if they have ever been concerned about your drinking and how they feel drinking has affected your life. 
Whether or not drinking has had an obvious effect yet on your life, the next step is to review specific symptoms or problem drinking. Ask yourself the fol­lowing questions: 
1. 
Increased Tolerance -Have you had a need to drink more and more alcohol to feel the same effect? Some­one who is a "good drinker" and can "hold a lot" is usually someone with an increased tolerance. 

2. 
Personality Changes -Do you act significantly different under the influ­ence of alcohol? Are you aggressive or depressed or do you do things you would never do while sober? 

3. 
Blackout -Have you experienced a memory loss of events that occurred while drinking? 

4. 
Loss of control-Are you unable to drink consistently the amount you plan to drink? 


Even one of the above symptoms or alcohol-related difficulties in a major life area might indicate a serious drink­ing problem. You could then benefit from seeking a professional alcohol as­sessment. 
Some local assessment resources in­clude: The South Bend Alcoholism Council (234-6024) ; Pathways Cen­ter!Memorial Hospital (284-7273); University Counseling Centeli'Notre Dame (239-5085); The Famlly Learmng Center (232-1405) 
d Al h 1· C "}

The South Ben co o Ism ounci and the University of Notre . Dame Counseling Center can also provide you with the names of individual counselors in private practice who do alcohol as­sessments. 
Alcoholics Anonymous is a support group that is considered a "lifeline" for those with drinking problems. The only reqmr~ment ~or AA _mee~m~ atten­dance Is a desire to qmt drmkmg. 
C II 234 7007 f r South Bend AA
a. .-o meetmg times. Notre D_ame campus AA meets on Thursday n~ght at 8 p.m. on the lOth floor of the Library. 
Sally Coleman has a master's degree in psychological counseling from Notre Dame and is a certified alcoholism 
counselor. 
..------------------------------­
p 0 BOX Q 1I 
Nation has history of ignoring global laws 

Dear Editor: 
In response to the letter by Michael Barron (Feb. 5), some response to the unfounded accusations and to the skirt­ing of the real issues involved must be made. I might be persuaded that the comparison of recent events know by some as "Irangate" to the Watergate scandal that buried Richard Nixon's po­litical career is inapporpriate. That is not the main issue in question. Barron was correct to say that Nixon plotted against his domestic opponent~' careers and it seems a prudent deci­sion on the part of the former president to resign when he did. . 
President Reagan has committed no such heinous crime. He has only ac­tively supported men like General Rios 
Montt  in  Guatemala,  under  whose  
"evangelical"  guard  the  most  
genocidal  campaign  against  an  in­ 

digenous population wa~ execu~ed. ~e has supported! the racist regime m South Africa. He also illegally supports the Contras in their attempt to over­throw a government that was popularly elected in an election in which the ad­ministration persuaded much of the democratic opposition to boycott. 
That is correct. United States support for the Contras under international law is illegal. Check international law for the exact criteria for legal support of insurgents within a country. One of the criterion is that there must be a provisional government established in control of a substantial area of the country in order to achieve "bel­ligerent" status under international law. 
Anyway, who claims that the United States has a history of abiding by in-

Garry Trudeau 

ternationallaw? The World Court deci­sions against the United States in favor of the Nicaraguan government in recent years, and the United States' response of not accepting the ruling _are fairly well known. However, the Umted States has been disregarding interna­tional law with respect to Nicaragua since we refused to accept the decision of the Central American Court of Jus­tice that the Bryan-Chamorro Treaty of 1916 violated the territorial rights of Costa Rica and of El Salvador. 
Barron claims that "some members of the press conveniently ig­nore ... rights such as the assumption of innocence until proven guilty ... " I have yet to see any press member state that anyone in particular is guilty; I have only heard claims that something ille­gal has occurred. 
Regardless of who actually initiated the operation, if something illegal has occurred and the administration is in­volved, then the Chief Executive has the ultimate responsibility for the ac­tions of that administration, does he not? Finally, any attempt to lessen the guilt of a present administration of any government cannot be accomplished through establishing the guilt of prior administrations as Barron attempts to do in his remarks about the administra­tions of JFK and FDR. 
I wonder what would happen if a group of foreign-sponsored rebels con­ducted a spring offensive into a sparsely populated area of a country, established a provisional government, and were recognized by two random countries (for argument's sake, call them Chile and Grenada). What would there be to stop a friendly government from establishing treaties to militarily support such a mob? 
Brendan Daniels Off-Campus 

TM 5(JR£ IT(Al}f(r 50M5THING
I CAN'TGCTOYfJ<HOIAJOPeN 

A6SOWTEJ..Y.1HJIJ'51JJH'fI £XJN'T 
I [)UNNO.

CAR& IFIMA REAL 5lJCC&55­
lH/5 $TATe/~ TO N/3W !PeAS, 

813 LONG BEFORE &1.-% YOU 
MA~ 5011BJNe
8.[).-7HI5 TASK FORCE IS 

P16'RE &VEN $TWY-8Cli/3VC. 
RJt.. FILM AC!l?fiSS. INMYN&rr 
IN THE fW./}/?[)­

l/F/3, I'u 813 t;OMCONE tNT/RELY
lNG 7HIN65 L-IkE IN, NO
JUST 7HC. BE61NNIN6! 
ING IN[)(J5Tf?Y.

fJIFR3K/3NT.'
f)()UBT.
I 
\

\
I 


Quote of the day 
"Nearly all men can stand adver­
sity, but if you  want  to test  a  
man's  character,  give  him  
power."  

Abraham Lincoln 
(1809-1865) 

Genera~ Board



Ibe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief .................. ............................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Cre~don Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of t_he Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Colu~n Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of vary1ng Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1988 




Accent 
Thursday, February 12, 1987 -page 9 



Musical marvels 
LUCY BARAQUIO features writer 
T 
here are two kinds of musicians In this world ·• those who never do much with their talent and those who go on to make music a central part of their lives. Michelle Witt and Elizabeth Gerrish, both Notre Dame juniors, are most deflnltely of the latter type. Among their many other musi­cal achievements, both are now current members of the South Bend Sympl'ony Or­chestra, a professional organi­zation directed by conductor Kenneth Kiesler. 
Elizabeth, who has been playing the cello for 15 years, has been a part of the South Bend Symphony since last year. Although It Is rare for a student to be part of a profes­sional orchestra at all, Elizabeth has previously played with two other orchestras: In high school she soloed with the Jackson Symphony and the Alma Symphony of Michigan. At the age of 15, she won the Zerounlan Award for young musicians. Coming from a fam­Ily of string-Instrument players, Elizabeth has always been raised on music. Her family even sometimes plays as a group for special events. Now a Pre-medtMuslc major, Eliza­beth Is currently continuing her cello lessons with teacher Karen Buranskas, and will be giving a solo recital on Febru­
ary 19th In the Annenberg Auditorium. 
Michelle, a California native, has also been greatly Involved with music since childhood. She has been playing the violin since she was eight years old. Prior to joining the South Bend Symphony Orchestra last se­mester, she spent several sum­mers playing her violin In Europe. In Frankfurt, Germany, she played with the German American Academy for Music Com-munlcations, under the direction of Joanne Lunde. She has also studied in Vienna with Claire Hodgkins and Louis Klevman and, at the age of I 7, she spent a few months on tour In Argentina with the Or­chesta Nacional de Ia Provincia de Tucuman. A Program of Liberal Studies and music second major at Notre Dame, she Is now taking lessons from Laura Klughertz, who Is a con­cert master of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. 
Being the youngest members of the Orchestra clearly has its ups and downs for these two virtuosos. "It's very fast-paced, "says Elizabeth. "We have concerts once a month and we practice nearly every day of the week before a con­cert." Also, as can be expected from a professional group, tht. or-chestra is "pretty competi­tive." According to Michelle, sometimes It feels as if there's always "someone looking over your shoulder." 
In addition to the South Bend Symphony, Michelle and 
Elizabeth also play chamber music with the Notre Dame Or­chestra. While they enjoy the challenge of playing profes­sionally, they like playing chamber music because, says Elizabeth, "the group is smaller and It Involves more In­dividualized attention and per­formance time." With Klughertz as the chamber orchestra's conductor, there Is also closer communication among the musicians; and each Individual participant carries more re­sponsibility. 
Obviously, these girls spend much of their time practicing with their respective Instru­ments. Aside from rehearsals with both orchestras, Michelle and Elizabeth try to spend at least three hours a day on Indi­vidual practice. Sometimes they will spend up to a total of six hours In one day work-lng on their music. 
Anyone who spends that much time flddllng with an In­strument must really love to play; and this Is especially true of these musicians. Instead of Interfering with life as a stu­dent, music is, In fact, actually becoming the center of their lives. Their social as well as academic Interests tend to work around their musical en­deavors •• and they like It that way. They love the idea of being musicians. "There are certain things you experience as a musician that you would never be able to experience doing anything else," says Mic­Hall. Or just feeling great helle. Like playing Tchalkovsky when an audience responds to on a street corner In VIenna. your solo with thunderous Or being on stage In Carnegie applause. 

A Little Culture &A Little Romance 
GINA CAMARENA features writer 
M
ulticulturalism will offer a little something to every­one this Saturday night at Theodore's. The Notre Dame Multicultural Committee Is ex­panding Its vision of global community by Inviting students and faculty to share In a variety of cultural differences. At 8 p.m. on Valentines Day, Theodore's will open Its doors to "An Evening of International Romance" for the annual M.S. fund raiser. 
For a minimal donation of two dollars students and faculty can e'1Joy a taste of Inter­nationalism, and at the same time raise funds for a worthy cause. Theodore's will be adorned with International flags and decorations, and the dance will provide a variety of foods, music and dancing from countries throughout the world. In addition, there will also be door prizes and three dinner raffles for Franky's Restaurant Fonda U Fondue and an Orien­tal Restaurant not yet chosen. 
Raising money for Multiple Sclerosis Is the primary goal for the evening, but the Com­mittee hopes to encourage the Idea of "community" among the participants. 
What Is multiculturalism? Adele Lanan, Assistant Director of Student Activities, said the Committee's purpose Is to "en­rich the Notre Dame commu­nity through cultural diversity-­to bring the best of everybody's world together." Multicul­turalism Is an environment where students can share and appreciate other's differences and yet still be able to live as a unlfled community. 
The Multicultural Committee began Its existence at Notre Dame this year and represents orated Into student activities. about 70 different cultures. A Although the mainstream of total of eight members com­the Committee's goals seems prise the committee--two each to focus on foreign students, from student government, the the Ideal aspect of multicul­Black Student's Union, ISO and turalism Is that It Is a "natural SAB. Committee members type of event," said Lanan. A meet once per week to discuss natural event must Include an and develope ways In which understanding between foreign multiculturalism can be lncorp-and native students. 
--"'P:~~~vlews and experi­ences from foreign students can be seen through the eyes of four Notre Dame Latin Amer­ican students: Alfredo Domin­
guez from Venezuela, Luis Her­nandez from Puerto Rico, Oswaldo Egas from Ecuador, and Hector Bocock from Costa Rica, all of whom share a house off campus. 

They choose to live off 
campus not because they have 
problems Otting In with other 
students, but like the other stu­
dents, they simply want the 
freedom to live as adults. 
The most prevalent dlfflculty as a foreign student would seem to be the language barrler--"but It's only In the beginning that it prevents you from ntting In," said Hernan­dez. Bocock agreed that "It Is not hard to nt In," and his per­sonal experiences suggest that "many people don't realize I'm a foreigner." 
With the Issue of multicul­
turalism, Dominguez agreed 
that It should develope natural­
ly, and not so obvious." 
"The more they want to group people together, the more the people will not want to Interact," said Dominguez. Similarly, Egas felt that one foreign culture shouldn't always be grouped with another foreign culture to help them m ln. "We have more In common with Americans than with other foreigners," Egas said. 
Controversial Issues such as faith, the alcohol policy, parle­tals and divestment, Interest .._ and concern foreign students 
just as much as anyone else on campus. 
Yes, foreign students and native Americans can live as a community through multiculturalism--by being aware of each other's presence through a natural environment. Egas said It Is a sharing experi­ence for both cultures. 
The Observer Thursday, February 12, 1987-page 10 
Sports Briefs 
A women's softball clinic for women's players and coaches will take place Saturday, Feb. 14 at Saint Mary's. Scott Beisel, varsity softball coach at Saint Mary's; will conduct the clinic along with the head coaches from Northwestern, Michigan, and Lake Michigan Col­lege. Registration runs from 7:45 to 8:30am, and sessions run from 8:45a.m. to 4:15p.m. Fees are $25 per coach and $10 per college student. For more information call 284-5448. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in helping the women's track club with its home meet this Saturday is asked to attend a meeting tonight at 7:30 on t.he track in the North Dome of the ACC. The club needs timers, announcers and meet officials. For more information contact Dan at 287-6616 or 239-6989. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will have a scrimmage against Saint Mary's tonight at 9 at Angela Athletic Facility. Players should meet at 8:45p.m. at the main circle. For more information contact Kate at 2904. 
-The Observer 

In the NBA last nig;ht, Milwaukee beat New York, 127-104, Washington defeated San Antonio, 133-108, Indiana defeated Phoenix, 121-105, Atlanta defeated the L.A. Clip­pers, 109-82, and Detroit beat Philadelphia, 123-113, in over­time. 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
SAB Broomball Tournament pairings for today's games are as follows: 
Thursday's Games 

Ste)~an Field 1 Ben Wa vs. The Fan Club, 4:30p.m. Let's Get Wide vs. Soixante... , 5 p.m. 
Stepan Field 2 Kookaburra IV vs. Supply Side Advocates, 4:30p.m. War Pigs vs. Crack Addicts, 5 p.m. 
Participants are reminded that no boots are allowed. Tennis shoes only. 
Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
said Welsh. "We have a 
balanced team strength deep 
enough to cover the 13 events. 
After the first event, we were 
never seriously challenged." 
After sweeping Illinois-
Chicago, the Irish travel to Val­
paraiso on Saturday to wrap up 
their regular season. The men 
are seeking to improve their 
record to 10-5 while the women 
hope to break even with a 7-7 
record. 
Unlike the past few meets, 
Valparaiso will not be as big a 
challenge and the Irish hope to 
control both meets from the 
outset. 
"I feel we will be in charge 
throughout both meets," said 
Welsh. "This will give us a good 
opportunity to close the season 
with the seniors finishing in 
true glory." 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Co!lge Center, accepts classlfieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through ~nday. Deadline for next-day classlfieds Is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepatd, either In person or by maiL The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
~_N_o_TIC_E_s__..Jl  IL..--F_o_R_R_EN_T_____.  CIRCUS LUNCH II I need DUKE tickets! GA's or students  LUCY CILETTI, I'm glad you didn't go abroad. I don't know what I would have done without you. MOLLY SULLIVAN  All must prostrate themselves to the jp8 Hoover of Christ  Theology ma)ore and minora and their friends: Thla Sunday, please attend the apeclal Mass at Howard Hall  
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131  house wtoom wk!oor ..Windows wbed but no sheets 234· 7654  tix. Call Pete at 2029. STOP  and ROXANE VITIORI, you guys are the coolest. NINA MUTONE, thanks lor all the times I woke you up to get the  DAVE STEPHENITCH Congratulations on passing  Chapel at 11 :30 A.M. and the brunch following Immediately at Prof. Weaver's home.  
CIRCUS LUNCH II  Go back to the last ad. I WANT YOUR DUKE TIXI  door. You're SO cutell And to my other twin, MARIA "WOMAN" KATANZARITI,  the C.PA Have a good lilel  0 HELP! SPRING BREAK  
TYPING AVAILABLE  you wild woman youllllt's fun competing  Murph, Lisa I. Lisa II,  C Need RIDE to FLORIDA  
287·4082  ................................................................  with youlll Thanks all lor caring, and lor  Maria, Dennis, 1B, and  Share Cost  
WANTED Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277· 7406 OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer,EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia,MRS. COKER, 233· 7009. Asia. Ali fields. $900·2000 mo.Sightseeing.Free inlo.Write IJC. PO BX 52·1N4 Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 PRO-TYPE Quality work, word processing Want to buy a MACINTOSH. Call Erin availability, reasonable $. 277·5833. 272·2357. o-tAMoNos:-·i3ai:o::;~~--;;;~~;;·$$:;··;;ii: THEA TIME has 14K overlay & cubic TELEMARKETING zirconia jewelry. Write P.O.Box 1005 Earn and have fun. So.Bend, IN 46224 lor info. Hours are Monday and Tuesday, 5 pm ................................................................ to 10 pm., Sunday, 11 am to 7 p.m . BED AND BREAKFAST Good pay, short to indefinite positions. available lor NO Junior Parents Immediate openings. Weekend. Two night minimum: 10 mlns. MANPOWER from campus. 272·5640 Temporary stall specialists 320 W. LaSalle i:i~~;;----ii~i~~~:··-·c;;;i~~ii~~~:···'iii;i;~-;;~·. 234·0157 Amusement Parks, NOW accepting ap­plications. For more information and an c"tficus-L:u.Ncii"'ii.................................application: write: National Collegiate Recreation Service, P.O. Box 8074, Hi~ ton Head, S.C. 29938 ii'El:j;iii..Fiio·e··NE.iioiio'r6..iNov..6i:i DAYTON FOR FEB 20·22.$$$ ERICH mPiN.ooi<::r;;;:ioN~·--·----·-----···-------·-­2507 PRoFEsstoNALLY HANDLED 259­2334 i"Nii-iio·;;-Fiioii.ro.i.'u::i3L:ool.1.iNG'roN FOR 2·20. WILL HELP PAY EXPENSES.C"t'Fic'us.L:u.Ncii"'ii................................. CALL SANDY AT 4234 \ LOST/FOUND I I FOR SALE.._________J 2 AIRTIX: INDY·FT.LAUD MAR11·22 LOST: Keys lost at the North Carolina $200 each. Call x3711 in pm. game. 5 large keys and 1 small key. II found PLEASE call 2690. 4s"Acii:Fiau'No-..ri=iiP·-;:ix···;N·-us..o'N ................................................................ UNITED-$250-CALL£3763 FOUND: One gold earing with blue Etficus..L:u.Ncii..ii____________ .....................stripes in Morrissey Hall early Saturday morning. Call £3470 to claim. ................................................................ ................................................................ 400K MACINTOSH ext. drive. 272-3317 Whoever took a royal blue Gerry ski jacket at Theodore's last Friday could you please call me or return It, my 10 is in the pocket. Thanks. TICKETS L:6s:r·:·c;;L:C"1"o6'8ooi<.iN·-;;·5-ci·siiAi3  HELPII NEED 2 GA'S FOR DUKE GAME AND 4 GA'S OR STUD.TICKETS FOR DE PAULl Call MONICA at x4041. I will pay BIG MONEY!!! I NEED 2 DUKE student tickets. PLEASE SELL ME YOURS!III Call THERESA at x4041. Will pay BIG BUCKSIII NEED 3 GAs FOR BROOKLYN colt B· Ball. Soft Seats call Sharon at 284-4297 Need DUKE Stud & GA nx CJ 1382 NEED 2 GAs lor the DUKE GAME. CALL TOM 4772 DESPERATELY NEED 2 DUKE GA'S, x2113 I ................................................................ RICH MBA BROTHER NEEDS TWO GAa FOR DUKE GAME. CALL TOM AT 1788. iiiei-suci<s-i~;··o~;;~~i·Ci;:·~:··c:~ii·P~;-~ at 2153. N~~'d--2--ii~j;~-~~~ ..;~~~~.;-·;;~;j.''c~ii.Biii-~i 1852. PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ................................................................ AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH • STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENnNE'S DAY CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME . ................................................................ THE YELLOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight daUy Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free til March 1. 272-4453 BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII ................................................................ BP SPIRIT WEEKI TONITE:TALENT SHOW! BPERS, YOUR CHANCE TO BE A STAR! BP SPIRIT WEEKI  being the friends you are. Love you all, Patti Tripathi. Need a ride to Purdue lor St. Valentine's weekend. Can leave Fri. alter 5:00 or Sat. morning. Please call 272-8617. NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 BUSINESS TYI'ES: The Observer is looking lor students who can write commentary or analysis of business-related issues or events. II you are interested in writing, contact Jim Riley at 239·5313. 1'0P GUN TOM CRUISE 1'0P GUN THURS AND SAT 7:30 AND 10:00 SMC, CARROLL AUD 1"0P GUN BIIG APPLE WHO LOVES N.Y.? II.OVE N.Y. DO YCIU LOVE N.Y.? BIG APPLE BROADWAY MADISON AVE 42ND ST BLOOMINGDALES! B·IG APPLE BIG APPLE WHO LOVES N.Y. BIG APPLE BERNADETTE HORTON Happy late birthday (No, this Is not to say that you were late but that I was.) I hope you had a marvelous time. I'll call you soon. Gertie CIRCUS LUNCIH II back by popular demand: CIRCUS  Jell Blumb ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ROSES ARE RED HE IS A LIVING GOD... A DEITYIII A STUDMUFFINIII THIS JUNIOR ZAHMBIE CALLED 'WAD" • YOUR SECRET FARLEYITE EXCUSE ME, BUT WERE YOU AWARE THAT JEFF LAURENSON IS A HARD MAN TO GET AHOLD OF ??? Beat the Winter blues with the beat of the Islands, monl '''REGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO"' This and every Thursday. Come here your favorite reggae tunes spun by Jah Dave of WVPE's 88 REGGAE STREET. SPECIAL ON RED STRIPE JAMAICAN BEER "'REGGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO"' ................................................................ DESPERATE! NEED 2·4 Duke tixl Will pay WELL! Laura £2854 ................................................................ JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJ Broombell Tournament Saturday, Feb. 14, 1 :15·5:30 6·8 person teams: $2 entry lee Sign up this week in class office JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJI ................................................................ BACCHUS MEETING FOR INTER· ESTED STUDENTS TONIGHT GRACE HALL "Pir 7:00p.m. WE NEED YOUR IDEAS AND HELP 4.''''"''''''""'''"'"'"'''''""''''"'"'"''''''""'"'"''' Gator Hat: I like what I see. and if you'd like to know me Reply sooner,not later: Are you really a Gator? B.Blonde ................................................................ JULIA, WILL YOU BE MY VALENTINE? BB. ................................................................ JOANNA BRANICK, ONLY TWO DAYS UNTIL THE BIG V-DAY. I HOPE THAT YOU ENJOYED YOUR CAR THERE IS MORE WHERE THAT CAME FROM. SATURDAY, SATURDAY, SATUR· DAY ... Y.S.V.  Vance £2574 .................................................... Cupid is dead! Dennis Patrick Corrigan-! have my black leather teddy and fishnets ready lor Tri· Mill I hope YOU are ready lor Tri-Mill I can't wait to go through the receiving line! Your date Pat Wanted: Two senior formal dates lor two cute Lewis girls. Willing to go dutch, all you need is a tux and a good attitude. By the way, Keenan Revue Dinner Band, we are willing to comply with your song's demands! Reply here. YO CUPCAKES! The Spartans of 90 Grace desire to experience explicit female companionship. All members of 90 are charming, handsome. entertain­ing and modest. Chicks who wish to meet this challenge, please call 1772 or 1765. Karen and Beav To my freshman year roommates your personal is here who sent you this message? It should be quite clear I do not play football or stand six loot six you guessed It, its Mikey your favorite SMCI MELISSA SIMMERMEYER So you thought you got away scott free from having an embarrasing personal In the paper on the day of your birthday. HAl When you have friends who work here, you should know better. Anyway. hope you had a great birthday (sorry It's a day late) and plan to have fun at the luau this weekend! ~ove Pete, Laura, Margaret, and Colleen ................................................................ Hey ROB "Mr. Classilieds" LUXEM Are you sure you said HI to everyone in classilleds? What would sports briefs do without you? ................................................................ THIRD FLOOR DILLON HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY YOU'LL ALWAYS BE "OUR BROT·  
-­ ON FRI 113();87 IF FOUND CALL BILL P. X 1165 ................................................................ LOST-BLUE 10 HOLDER WUCENSE,ID, ETC IN SA BAR AREA ON WED NITE PLEASE CALL 284·5048 IF FOUND loet nevy blue eportcoat ml..lng efter dance at Knollwood C.C. Sat. night lnltlele-ACW on bottone love to have It back 287·5903 ................................................................ HELPIII I LOST MY 5-SUBJECT NOTEBOOK IN EITHER THE C.S.C. OR THE A.C.C. ON WEDNESDAY FEB. 4. IT IS YELLOW AND CONTAINS THE SUBJECTS· MARKETING, COM· PUlERS, LOGIC, ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE. PLEASE RETURN IT OR I FAIL THIS SEMESTER. OKAY I'LL GIVE YOU A REWARDIIIIIIIII CALL TOM AT  NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. i'"oiisPeR'iireL:v...Nii.iio··;:wa···oui<ii GAs PARENTS ARE COMING FROM CALl· FORNIA BIG MONEY PLEASE CALL JOHN x1158 $$$$$$'"ii"esf..iiR.AreCv..'NeE·o···ou"i<ii TIX FRIENDS COMING FROM FAR AWAY PLACES CALL X4045 IIIII ii'Ei:j;'iii""L:~;;~i·~~~~ ..~~~d--~~~~~-·o~k~ G.A.s and one student ticket for DadFest 87 .... $ Will pay $ Call 277·7547. i-~~~d-;~-oui<ii"G'ii~:·;;;i;;~-2iia·:·9483 MoM.ANo.oiio'wiCL:·;;;;;,;--m··Foi=i..2 DUKE GA'S:CALL TIM 1372  DRUIDS UNITE The High Season is at hand WORSHIP ... i:iioe..'Nee.oe·o:··u:··aF..iL:t:iN.ois··;;ii8~ 13·15 SHARE$$$$ CALL LYNN 3021 ii:~··9~~~~-~~---h~~~--v~~--;;~~i.·;·;;N·oR-ii:.\ BONNY and ANN MIDDENDORF. from abroad. I'm glad lo have you two as friends. Happy Valentine's Day. Lots of love, Patti. ................................................................ ROSES······························· ARE RED HE IS A LIVING GOD... A DEITYIII A STUDMUFFINIII THIS JUNIOR ZAHMBIE CALLED 'WAD" • YOUR SECRET FARLEYITE  LUNCH 11111111 coming soon to a dining hall near you I OBSERVER I~EWS DEPARTMENT All interested cubs and cigar-stampers are invited to .attend the lnvesUgaffve Reporters and Editors Conference at the University of Missouri at Columbia, a lac· tory of Pulitzer-Prize winners. Call Chris Bednarski or Tripp Baltz at The Observer office by 6 p.m Thursday if you'd like to go. CHAD, FR. T SAY "RULE 8" ·••··•·················•••••··•····•·······lllllllf3H'i ~Uli:(;IA.L TllLJn: "J{j Cftlts str-v111 ll4lll¥ loott~e~ Elizabeth:  Booger, How did you rip your pents... does it have to anything to do with your nice buns? Attn MK: £2 keep yourse~ out of "hot water" or you may nol make it home until morning... £3 II you ever forget the way home, just follow the yellow brick road ... What would SPRING BREAK be like without your RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS You know you want them. You know you need them. WELL COME AND GET THEMI CALL TIM AT 1801, RM. 324 DILLONI "THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN'" 'We've been raped, we've been robbed," was our team's battle cry, So forget being serious, give obnoxious a try. Off to the bar went JOHN with MY twenty, There  HERS" LUV, SMEGS AND LIZARD ro-riiiiNii:Ai!iTI.'iirso;;·RooiA.437 MARRIOTI (namely:Chris, Andy, Pat, Tom, and leek) "Let's spend the nigh! together" eating banana bread and watching cartoons in the morning! Jackie, Patti. Staph, Ann. and Bathe Brad, I wanted you to know I had a really fun weekend thanks to you! Happy Valen· tines Day! Love, L MARIA KOCH­WHEN YOUR BIRTHDAY'S IN THE SUMMER, ITS KINDOF A BUMMER CUZ' FRIENDS DON'T REMEMBER  
283·4605. ................................................................ Lost : Silver Wedding Band at the Rock. Major Rewardijose 283·1607) ened ................................................................ LOST: Blue Notre Dome backpack at South Dining Hall on 2-9. If found please call 3487 as soon as possible it contains books and notebooks I need lor tests this week. ............................................................... Lost. Text: Eliot, Selected Poems. Eric x2563  Neiio-oui<ii-CiA·swiL:L:'riii<ii-iiNv.'No: WILL PAY$$$ CALL STEVE £2180 i''Neii·o--G·A-·A'No-·s:ruo··:rix-·FoFi·:r·HE DUKE GAME. PLEASE CALL ANN 284· 5454. Neeil1'iliii<e·:r;x·:aiiii'i:AR'Rv.x3479 N~;;;;·;h~~-;;·b~k~~b~ii'ii~k;;;·;~;·s·~-~'d~·y the lilths game. Will pay nicely! PLEASE CALL Colleen £3897  ............riiiFiii--;;i:ooR..oii:'CoN............ HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY YOU'LL ALWAYS BE "OUR BROT­HERS" LUV, SMEGS AND LIZARD ....................c;iiv;;~·p·;;.t;:·ii ................... Burning House Thursday Night BE THERE  (The starving Musician in Lyons) Since we haV4! already discerned life and our relationship on the last date, let's stop being couch rats who need Kool-aia lor nurishment and have some wholesome fun. Mike and Carol Brady could be our proud parents alter this date! I'll pick you up at 7 p.m. on Sat. I guarantee Part 1 of this date will be a rememberable experience. Hope Part 2 will be as interesting! Your Valentine Bird?  were fifty cent beers, therefore we did drink plenty. Or should I change that "we" to SCOTI-Who really did consume a lot. But aHer drinking, he doubled his mean, scan was our "functional drunk" it did seem. I was up next, but not lor my bowling did I receive lame, But be· cause the boys finally learned my nick· name. RE this and RE that resounded through the alley And soon PINS AND NEEDLES began to rally. SUE then con· tinued our awesome streak, As this poem will continue--but not till next weekllll  UNTIL SEPTEMBER SO HERE'S OUR WISH FOR YOU· MAY ALL YOUR HALF BIRTHDAY WISHES COME TRUE . LOVE, KERRY, JOAN, & FWA GOING SOUTH? NEED RIDE TO CIN· CINNATI OR LOUISVILLE 284·4341 VEE! YEEI CHRISSIE IS FREEl GIVE HER A CALL 284-5149!  
-. . ................................................................  ...: ..:........~ ...........~ .....:..:...;....:........: ..........  -•••''"''"'''"''~'"'•••noooo .. •••••••~'"'"''"''""''•••u•W'' ..  • -."6"t''... "'"''•"\'.'~··.,.,•"C.''Y''1'"~''\"''"\-'f"\"''"  

~------------------------­
-
The Observer Thursday, February 12, 1987 -page 11 
The guys in the striped shirts deserve a little more respect 

AI 
Hoopla 
Alright, fans, stop trying to $28.36, and believe me, the be a bigshot. I want yc.u to get watches will be Timexes, to the game early for a change, something from John Cameron so you can learn some interest-Schwaze's low-budget line. ing things about what the three-But, please, leave their man zebra -the officiating eyeglasses, cause they gotta teams of college basketball --get home. do. What most people don't un-
First of all, they report on the derstand is that officiating is court in matching outfits, one difficult work, which requires referee and two umpires, and a well-cnditioned body and an the main reason for this cameo alert mind -but which doesn't appearance is to make sure the bring down a Rockefeller neither team dunks the ball salary, even in Division 1-A. during warmups. And, to make The guys who officiate the sure the uniforms the players Final Four, for example, get a wear meet the specifications -flat fee of $400 -no matter what in number and color -that the the Nielson ratings -plus a per NCAA rules committee diem of $75 and first-class air-decrees. fare for themselves alone. 
Now if you look closely at the I believe that any referee form-fitting black pants, you'll l. who works the Final Four notice that all they have in their should receive his salary, plus pockets is an extra whistle. first-class airfare for two, so he There's no jewelry or can bring along his wife, and wristwaches. If they want to the same wristwatch or know what time it is, they whatever momento that goes to either have to glance at the the players and coaches. This clock on the wall or ask the is normally a once-in-a-lifetime home coach. deal, and in my eyes, the offi-
If you happen to be a second-cials who do the officiating are story man, you should know just as special -and just as that the officials usually leave much a part of the NCAA's sue­their wallets in their locker, in cess -as the coaches and the left shoe, wrapped in a players of the teams participat­black sock. But don't waste ing. your time. Because even if you Okay, back to what to look happen to find the three wal-for, once you've slid through lets, you'll end up getting a the turnstiles and found your combined amount of about seat: 

Steve Beurelein...9 p.m. Gene Corrigan....9:30 p.m. Maureen McDonnell... I 0 p.m. Ken Dice...I0:30 p.m. 

The most important trait an official can have is to set the tempo of the game, which should be then maintained throughout. Also, if there's a conference with a coach, to im­mediately invite the opposing coach to join in, which usually means it ends up like Reyk­javik, with no real discussion whatever. 
Remember one thing: The 
Gary Well... II p.m. Matt Kilcullen... II :30 p.m. Dan Ryan... J2 a.m. Dave Miklos... J2:30 a.m. 





Mike Gurdak... l a.m. Pat Cooke... l :30 a.m. Wally Stack...2 a.m. Cathy Nonnekamp ...2:30 a.m. 
SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
COMETOTHE ·· LATE-NIGHT OLYMPICS 
ideal official keeps a low profile during the game. He's resourceful and initiative. He has a dignity of voice, but does not suggest any pompousness. He works as part of the team, has an understanding of the game, the players, and the coaches, and he knows what the rules say and -even more im­portantly -what they mean. 
Another thing fans who grab for the newspaper the morning after the game should under­stand: The officials are not, un­der any conditions, allowed to speak to the news media, that is, the newspapers, TV or radio, or make any statements to them. They are permitted, however, to state the pertinent rules and decision regarding a play in which they are in­volved. otherwise, for the three hours they are on sight, all they do is blink and nod to anyone that is not a direct part of the game. 

Believe me, officials answer all questions from the coaches with a pat phrase: It wasn't my call! But the toughest calls they have to make are defensing the pivot, blocking or charging, and goaltending. That's be­cause those three -to borrow from baseball terminology ­are bang-bang calls, made from an angle and quite quick­ly. 
Here's how officials handle things today : 
The three-man team con­stantly stays in a triangle formation, with the center offi­cial -who is always the referee never changing, and the other two umpires inter-changing positions. 
The official terminology is that there are the lead official, the center official, and the trial official. What does each one mean? 
Well, the lead official as­sumes a position of depth off the end line, and has end line responsibilities. The center of­ficial takes a position between the 28 foot line and the end line. He's always across the court from the scorer's table, and his sideline responsibility is from end line to end line. And the trail official positions himself in the mid-court area, preferably nearer the division line, and his sideline responsi­bility is from end line to end line. 
What that means, is that while the center official never changes, the other two inter­change --that is, the leader be­comes the trailer and the trailer becomes the leader, depending on which way the ac­tion flows on down the court. 
THERE'S 5nLL TIME TO PREPARE. 
GRE·GifAT·NCLEX 





6116 LSAT 
Classes Starting 2/21 

I 
'I 
I 

I 
The following iS 

Name Joe Allen Norm Balantine 
Tony Brooks Mike Callan Bob Carpenter Lincoln Coleman Bob Dahl Greg Davis Brian Dowler Kent Graham Don Grimm Bill Hackett Mike Heldt Frank Jacobs Andre Jones Jim Kinsherf Scott Kowalkowski Todd Lyght George Marshall Pierre Martin Ryan Mihalko Peter Rausch 
·Dave Rosenberg Tim Ryan .•. Winston Sandri Brian Shannon Ricky Watters George Williams Darryl Wodecki Chris Zorich 

Recruits 
continued/rom page 16 

Some of them would make it a Sunday-Monday visit and go to class. 
"When the athletes came here, they had great visits, and yet the weather wasn't very good. For the first time, we got athletes to come to football games as our guests. You're al­lowed to give them three tick­ets. They got to see this univer­sity when it was green. We had an academic day in August where they came up. There were a lot of things that went into it. 
"They really got a chance to see a lot of the campus and what Notre Dame is really and truly about. They looked at 40 years of their lives and not four." 
Q: What about the national scope of this year's class? 
A: "We felt that we're ana­tional school, and we should do that. We will continue to do that in the future. Although now that this recruiting year is over, one of the first things we'll do is sit down and evaluate what's going to give us the best chance to have a great recruiting year next year and approach it in maybe a little bit of a different manner next year. 
"We must build a base that we can count on annually. Most people use the in-state as their base. I think we really have got to do a great job of getting into the coach's office of every out­standing Catholic high school in the country. I think that's got to be our base, and we're going to place a great deal of empha­sis on that in the future." 
Q: Any final comments on the recruits? 
A: "A lot of the myths were maybe put to rest this year about we can't recruit the great running back and that we are going to be a wishbone team ­all those things that we've been fighting for two years. I think those are now put to rest with the tailbacks coming in and the caliber of quarterbacks and receivers. There were just so 

p~~~~~~~~~~J'!ij~~i;!, ~ ·i, ~ *'-,I 1 0~./' I'J
P1i '· .~>. <o ~•
rl -, ' . :.<!'o_., .4t.t4>(, ~ -• ; ; I' \ ~ ~~J' ~~ 
I ~ I 
~ INVITES YOU! ~ 
' "TWO FOR ONE NIGHTS= I .~ li. A~ ~ THURSDAYS, FRIDAYS & SUNDAYS ~ ·w·,.­
r• 6pm -11pm l1 « 20% Discount sale items 
I"MIDNIGHT MI\.DNESS= I 
6~5 
OL 6-6 270 RB 6-1 215 DL 6-5 240 
QB 6-2 . 170 RB 6-1 195 DL 6-5 240 DB 6-1 190 WR 6-1 175 QB 6-5 .220 .LB 6-3 216 PK 6-1 180 DL .6-4 255 TE 6-5 225 LB 6-4 220 OL. 6-4 242 LB 6-2 230 DB 6·2 18()DL 6~2 230 WR 6-1 185 
FB 6..2 DL LB 

many needs at so many differ­ent positions, and that's what we feel good about. I think we really have some options here, The young men really are com­ing here for the right reasons. I think it's important not only who's coming to your school, 

~ 
r• ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
,. 
~ 

Florrisant, Mo. 
Tulsa, Okla. 
Radnor'· Pa. 
Amityville, N.Y . 
Dallas 
Chagrin Falls, Ohio 
Hollywood, Fla. 
Tampa, Fla. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Southmoreland, Pa. 
Sarasota, Fla. 
Tampa, Fla. 
Newport, Ky. 
Hyattsville, Md. 
Braintree,. Mass .. 
Orchard Lake, Mich. 
Detroit .. Somerset, N .J, 
· · Fla.. 
ND women fall to Detroit 
Special to The Observer 
Heidi Bunek and Annie Schwartz scored 29 points apiece last night for Notre Dame, but it was not enough as the women fell to Detroit in Detroit last night, 94-86. 
Down by three points with three minutes to go, Detroit employed a full-court press, which quickly took its toll on Notre Dame. The Irish were rarely able to get the ball up­court, and soon after the Lady Titans took the lead for good. 
With the loss, Notre Dame fell to 6-14 on the season. 
Detroit raised its record to 17-5. Detroit was led by Cas­sandra Park's 30 points. 
Schwartz and Bunek were two points away from tying the Irish record for the most points scored in a single game, which is held by former Notre Dame player Trena Keys. 
Both women had season and career highs last night, and the freshman Schwartz scored well above her 5.9 points per game average. 
The women will travel to Tennessee on Saturday to take on the eighth-ranked Lady Volunteers. 
but why they're coming. I think these young men are coming 
7:00p.m. ::
for the proper reasons." 
3rd Fl. LaFortune 1
Tomorrow, Holtz talks about preparing for spring football and what he would like to ac­
At The Obse.-vt#!~J
complish in the spring drills. 
Have you tried a BAHAMA MAMA yet? 
Come in and pick up your free 
Bahama Mama recipe card! 
Corktowne has all the ingredients. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239-5303 for details. 
~.:®r£0!Wtall JiBii!HIW ! El IAIRWWWhllll'l!lllll~, 
.

Observer Campus Network 
MANDATORY MEETING! 
ALL OBSERVER NETWORK HALL REPRESENTATIVES: 
Thursday, Feb. 12 I' 

Busch half-barrel keg...... $25.99 Case of Miller Genuine Draft 
(bottles)...... $8.99 Case of Molson Golden...... $12.99 Case of Budweiser...... $8.39 
CORKTOWNE 

LIOUORS,JNc.
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23. '< m1te west of Martm·s Supermarket 
277-6805 
N.D.· S.M.C. 

wARNING•••DON'T GET CAUGHT I WITH JOUR PAJAMAS ONI ~ Students 
SATURDAYS • MIDNIOHT to 4AM a1 
Ski World Invites you to experience the atmosphere ~ of "Moonlight" Skiing. ~ 
YOU'Vt: OOT TO SKI IT TO Bt:Lit:Vt: IT ~ 
niversity Park Mall and
SKI WORLD 1454 7 N. MAIN STREET ~ 
BUCHANAN, MICHIGAN 49107 a1 Concord & Pierre Moran 
(616) 695-3847 ~ 
Malls -Elkhart 


'-~-~~~~~~~~~~~ 

·-~-----~------~---~ 
The Observer Thursday, February 12, 1987 -page 13 
Soccer team to play in St. Louis tourney 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish soccer team 
returns to action this weekend 
when it travels to St. Louis to 
participate in the Budweiser 
Collegiate Indoor Classic. 
Notre Dame, coming off a 13­7-2 record in the fall, will face several top-ranked teams from the outdoor season, including Indiana, junior-college power Meremac, and Sangamon State, who beat Evansvillie in indoor action last week. 
Fatigue will also be a factor, 
as Head Coach Dennis Grace 
has opted to play all three 
games on Saturday. 
''We didn't want the players to miss classes on Friday, so we had them schedule all our games on Saturday," said Grace. 
The Irish could have played one of the games Sunday mor­ning, but an NCAA rule allow­ing only six playing dates in the off-season negated that idea. 
"If we played Sunday mor­
ning, but didn't make it to the 
finals that afternoon, it would 
have been a waste of a day," 
said Grace. 
Last year Notre Dame par­ticipated in the tournament, giving Grace a chance to get an early look at some of the younger players on the team who would be playing in the fall. This year he plans to do the same, and as a result the team for the first time will play without its four seniors-keeper Hugh Breslin, wingback Mar­vin Lett, wingback Bill Gross and sweeper Jim Flynn. 
A final problem for the Irish will be the boards around the field. Currently they practice inside the track in the north dome of the ACC surrounded by tarps, so they haven't been able to try moves off the boards. 
Grace said he plans to take his team to another indoor tournament this winter before possibly traveling south for spring break for several out­door games. 

The ObserYer-
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 


Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How dol know 
if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
What is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
·---------~ 
How do I pray 
If I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
For personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
For appointment, call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239·6385 

Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 

The Country Harvester 
wants to make your Valentine's Day a unique one! Visit our country shop located in the basement of LaFortune and discover great Valentine's Day gift ideas for your sweetheart. 
We have a variety of colorful tins filled 
with: 
· delicious European chocolate · decorated heart shaped baskets 

f 1, ..~··· (". • i .... ~~~ ',;< ~· ...-1"\' ...-.;.:-,'!,. ,,,•j • ',. '•' I~. 
· adorable stuffed animals · unique yogurt items ·trail mixes · dried fruits and nuts 
--FREE SAMPLES-­
Hours: 11:30-6:30 Mon.-Fri. 12:00-5:00 Sat.-Sun. 

Ray Knight signed a contract with the Bal-the New York Mets came to an end yesterday. timore Orioles as his free agent journey from . 
Radkes propel SMC over Bethel 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI Sports Writer 
With two weeks left before qualifying for district playoffs, the Saint Mary's basketball team, 10-5, is sporting one of the best record in years. A 73-68 victory over Bethel on Tuesday has given quite a bit of op­timism to the young squad. 
Once again, the sister team of Tammie and Julie Radke led the Belles with 55 points be­tween the two. Their shooting percentages were practically flawless from the line while pumping in 22 of 32 from the field. 
But it was a team effort that enabled the Belles to pull of the win. 
Saint Mary's had to work it­self back into the game after the half. Bethel boasted an 11­point edge, which later grew to 13 in the first few seconds of play in the second half. 
"The team was able to pull off the upset because of strong defensive pressure and outside shooting," said Head Coach Marvin Wood. "They hung in there and never considered themselves defeated.'' 
Wood was disappointed with the rebounding both offen­sively and defensively. He felt that it had been stronger much earlier in the season. 

"In the past few games we have come on strong in the second half. If we are able to put the offensive strengths and defensive skills with the rebounding, then we can have a total game," said Wood. 
Although the decision for teams competing in the NAIA District 21 does not come until Feb. 22, the Belles hope to clinch the position when they take on the first of their two remaining games against Grace. The place and time is going to be announced today. And the Belles final homestand will be on Feb. 19. 

ND AVE APTS. 
arly Bird Special..... 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount Call 234-6647 by Pinkerton Security Agency 
Make-up Table Reservations for Dinner and Brunch 



Junior Parents' 
Wee~nd 
Thursday, February 12 
8:00 to 10:00 pm Junior Class Office 
~1,2 
0 
• 1' '",.." .~ 1 • • 1 ~.,, • • • '• •"' • o • ,;~ .. ,."' •-• • 

~---­
Alford ties record; Smith wins 600 

Associated Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. -Steve Al­ford received no praise, only severe criticism from Indiana Coach Bob Knight after the senior guard matched the Hoosiers' career scoring mark Wednesday night in a 77-75 vic­tory over Northwestern. 
Alford, who entered the game with a 23.2 average, finished with 15 points on four­of-13 shooting from the field to match Don Schlundt's 2,192 points from 1952-55. 
"It was obvious that Alford did not provide the leadership we needed," Knight said. "He showed no leadership tonight. If I'd been a fan, I'd have been rooting for Northwestern." 
Daryl Thomas led the second-ranked Hoosiers with 32 points and 11 rebounds as they improved to 20-2 overall and remained in first place in the Big Ten with an 11-1 mark. 
"Alford had two good games (42 against Michigan State and 30 against Michigan) and I guess that's enough for him," Knight said. "If we don't have Daryl Thomas we lose. Daryl 


greater concentration of good than than anywhere else on earth." 
-Fr. Ted, January 1987 
A few special children need the help of a few special college students. Please help out. If you want to volunteer for the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics, pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the 2nd Floor of La Fortune anytime between 9:00 and 5:00 Mon-Fri. 
INTERNATIONAL 
1 • 9 • 8 • 7 
SUMMER 
...­
mr
-
SPECIAl 
-
OlYMPICS G A M E S® 
"Notre Dame has been described as a place with a 
Thomas was the only player we 
had." 

Three consecutive rebound 
baskets by Thomas and a nine­
point burst by sophomore Rick 
Calloway midway in the second 
half broke up a close game as 
the Hoosiers took a 58-47 lead 
with 8:50 left. 

Northwestern, 6-16 and 1-11, was beaten 95-43 by Indiana earlier in the season. 
Okla. ST. 75, Okla. 74 
STILLWATER, Okla. ­Royce Jeffries made a driving layup with seven seconds remaining, and teammate Todd Christian added two free throws six seconds later to carry Oklahoma State to a shocking 75-74 victory over No. 8 Oklahoma in a Big Eight bas­ketball game Wednesday night. 
Mter Jeffries made his shot to give the Cowboys a 73-71 lead, Oklahoma called a timeout. David Johnson's in­bounds pass, however, sailed over the head of Ricky Grace and was intercepted by Okla­
homa State's Jay Davis, who 
was fouled with three seconds 
left. 
Davis missed both free 
throws, giving the Sooners an­
other chance. 
But again Johnson misfired 
on the inbounds pass, this one 
sailing out of bounds along the 
Oklahoma bench. 
UNC 94, Wake Forest 85 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Jeff Lebo scored 25 points as third-ranked North Carolina defeated Wake Forest 94-85 in an Atlantic Coast Conference basketball game Wednesday night to give Tar Heels Coach Dean Smith his 600th career coaching victory. 

':11:'~telltt~L~............................................-...........
T.hu•r•sd•a•y•,•F•eb•r•u•ar•y•1•2,•1•00•7•-•p•a•ge...15 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 




Campus 
3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse In­
troduction to LaserWriter, rm 115 Com­
puting Center 
4:45-6:45 p.m.: University Food Services 
present, "It's Just Like Mom Makes." The 
dinner menu for the evening will feature 
students' favorite recipes directly from 
their moms' kitchens. 
7:00 P-~-: Thursday Night Film Series, "Here 1s Germany," 1945, Black and White, 52 minutes directed by Frank Capra and Anatole Litvak, and "Let There Be Light," 1946, Black and White 58 minutes, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft ' 
7:30 & 10:00 p.m.: Movie, "Top Gun", $2, Carroll Auditorium SMC 

Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Obse"er advertising Call· 239-5303 for details. 
Mark Williams 
111£ RJINT? l.lfiU, rH& flJJNT 15•.• IJ£1./.•• rHE,f[ H'EALL.Y ISN'T .A RJINT PElf 5t ... >££•. _ 
\ 
6K£/IT. 
CAN WE

I ! ff.J l
LEAVE? 
" 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Printed fabric

7:30p.m.: Meeting, Spanish Club, CSC 
6 Fiber plant 

8:00 p.m.: Breen-Phillips Hall Talent 
11 Flag Show, Library Auditorium 
14 Means of defense 15 Ally 
Notre Dame 
16 "-Vedis?" 17 School year hiatus

"Just Like Mom Makes" Favorites 
19 Mil. abbr. 
from Home 
20 Lose in a way 21 Word said in unison
Saint Mary's 
22 Destine 23 Punta del ­25 Roman moniker

Monte Carlo Sandwich 
28 School year

Ground Beef & Potato Pie 
hiatus 
33 Arista 34 Bone: pref.
Egg Salad on Rye 
Deli Bar 
35 Bent 36 Brand 38 Hesitatory 
sounds 40 Adams et al. 41 Actress Blake 43 Hiatuses 45 Nautical rope 46 School year 
hiatus 49 Back of a book 50 Biblical 
patriarch 51 Fire-fighting 
aid 53 Besides 55 Warmer spell 59 Unit of work 60 School year 
hiatus for 
some faculty 63 Expert 64 Reduce 65 Slip 66 Youth 67 Mature 68 Cat---tails 
DOWN 1 Chorus member 2 River in 
"Kubla Khan" 3 Jade 4 Word in 
citations 


<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved  
5 Diminutive  
suffix  
6 Sink  
7 Concerning  
8 Reddish  
pigment  
9-standstill  
10 Albanian  
money  
11 Compoaure  
12 Likeness In  
stone  
13 Corset  
stiffener  
18 Turnstiles  
22 Malodorous  
24 Be angry  
26 Oxalis  
27 Gets by 2/12/87  
28 Teacher  37 Insect: pref.  54 "Clair de-"  
29 Did a nurse's  39 Drummers  56 Mata  - 
job  42  -poetlca  57 Famous stream  
30 Zodiac sign  44 Certain tree  58 Existed  

31 Minds 47 Become warmer 60 Calendar 
32 Plane part 48 Rearward abbr. 
33 "There ought 51 Exploit 61 Swiss canton 
to be -" 52 Killer whale 62 Dellbes 

SAB presents: Easy Rider  Tonite  
Wizard of Oz EG auditorium  Fri, Sat  

7,9,11 $1.00 
7,9,11 $1.50 
Absolutely no toad or drink allowed 

Thursday, February 12, 1987 -page 16


S~orts 
Holtz, Irish football rake in 'best recruiting class ever' 
I '*· II_
~

, 'Pleased and delighted' Holtz remains cautious; 
Irish swimmers blow out Flames in the Windy City 
Connor provides the cause for some sibling rivalry 
APphoto 

Frank Jacobs, Kentucky's "Mr. Foot­ball," has decided to play at Notre Dame. For a complete list of recruits, see page 12. 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams blew through the 'Windy City' Tues­day, leaving behind a devas­tated University of Illinois­Chicago team. While the Flames gave the men's team a good contest, the Irish rallied at the end for a solid win, with the women dousing the Flames with gale-like force. 
The men began the meet with a loss in the 400-yard medley relay, but kept a steady pace with the Flames. The see-saw scoring came to an end after an unexpected development. After a poor showing in the breaststroke events, the Irish needed to grab the lead. Their chance came in the 3-meter 
30 recruits mark largest class in three years 
Editor's Note-Today marks the first of a two-part interview with Notre Dame football head coach Lou Holtz, conducted shortly after 30 high school seniors signed national letters-of-intent to play for the Irish. Dennis Corrigan and Marty Burns of The Observer sports stafftalked with Holtz about this year's recruiting class and what's ahead for the Irish during the spring semester. 
Q: Coach, what are your thoughts on this year's recruiting class? 
A: "I'm trying to be very realistic, but we're pleased and delighted. All this means is we have a chance to win. It doesn't mean anything more than that-only that you have a chance. We felt this was an unusual year because of the fact that two of the last three years we signed 16 and the other year we signed 19. So, it was imperative that we have an excellent year recruiting. We had a need at virtually every posi­tion. 
"On paper, I'm exceptionally pleased with the athletes. I think that when you have a year like this in recruiting, it's a tribute to the school -the students, the players, the faculty and certainly the assistant coaches. But the real win­ner today is Notre Dame." 
Q: Is this, as some scouts are saying, the best recruiting class ever at Notre Dame.? 
A: "On paper it may well be, but I think that we need to evaluate this class 
diving event when they cap­tured first, second and third. This gave the men a 15-point lead, and they eventually finished with a 116-99 victory over the Flames. 
Head Coach Tim Welsh was pleased with the outcome of the meet, but admits luck was in­volved. 
"It was a difficult but good win," said Welsh. "We had a when they leave. Even though it's an impressive list, I've always said let's evaluate recruiting by how many games they win. Let's not put them in the Hall of Fame right now. I think other schools that we play have recruited excellent athletes as well, but we are happy at this point. If our ath­letes are as good as we hope they are, we won't have to write about them. People will come to that assumption when they watch them play. It's always a question of how good are they going to get and how much they are going to improve from here. There's no doubt that many of them will make an impact in the future." 
Q: What was your strategy for this year's recruiting? 
A: "We didn't recruit from a list. We had our mind made up on who we wanted in November. It turned out that many of them ended up on those lists. There were some who didn't make the lists that we think are outstanding foot­ball players. I don't think there's anybody on that list that's overrated. There are certainly some on the list that are going to fall in the underrated class. " 
Q: Was it easier to recruit this year as compared to last year? 
"Well, we were better organized, and got an earlier start evaluating and analyzing. Everybody was telling me we would lose a lot of people at the end. Just sort of the opposite happened. At 
few lucky breaks. I was told by Coach Stark that luck is impor­tant in athletics. That proved true against Illinois-Chicago." 
While the women lost the first event, they soon changed the score around after a pair of im­pressive performances by Amy Darling. Her first swim was a record-breaker in the 1000-yard freestyle, with time of 10:47.74. Darling followed that with a the end, some of them came. 
"I think it's organization, and I think it's the university. I can't say enough good things about number one, the job our players did with the prospects that were here, or about the time and effort that our coaching staff spent. It goes further than that -the job that our fac­ulty did, the admissions office and the student body. I've been a lot of places, and we've never had a year like this on paper. So, it's not me, and it's not how we organize. It's the university." 
Q: How did you sell Notre Dame to the prospective recruits? 
A: 
"We really exposed the young men. You never know what really is going to cause a young man to base his decision. They met with the admissions people, they met with the faculty and they spent time with the students. Most of them spent Saturday night at Theodore's with the other students. They met our players. We let them eat in the South and North dining halls ... 

Q: And they still came? 

A: 
"Well, they ate at my house Sun­day morning. (Notre Dame Athletic Director) Gene Corrigan had a Quar­terback Club luncheon. Ex-athletes came back. (Tom) Clements and many other ex-athletes who are playing professionally would come back. They were really exposed to Notre Dame. 


see RECRUITS, page 12 
first in the 200-yard freestyle. 
From that point on, it was downhill for the Irish. They remained strong throughout, not only taking numerous firsts, but backing those with second, third, and fourth places and finishing with a 121-88 vic­tory. 
"The women swam gre-at," 
see WOMEN, page 10 
Dear Pete, 

The letter from my sister began innocently enough. Apparently she had written the letter just after watching the Notre Dame-LaSalle basketball game. She probably felt the need to write her older brother when she saw his school on TV. I'm afraid you are no longer the family favorite. 
A strange thing for my sister to say, I thought. There must be more to it, so I read on. Mom and dad have secretly adopted another soph­omore at ND. Maybe he's a friend of yours? 
Adoption is nothing new to my family, but what was this about adopting someone from my class? It's Sean Connor, of course. 
Alright, what interest could my parents have in a 6-7 basketball player from Ziegler, Ill.? 
Mom and dad were overflowing with pride every time he hit one of those 20-foot shots against LaSalle Iit was so gross). 
I think I'm getting the picture. Anyone at the LaSalle basketball game would say that the loudest cheers during the game came when Sean made the three-point shot. 
When there was 30 seconds left in the fourth quar­ter, mom was saying, "Sean will do it...He won't let us down." 
But there is more to it than Sean's ability to hit the three-pointer. He is a very likable player on the court. Everyone roots for the sophomore for­ward when he is on the floor. 
Part of the reason is the fact that, going back to last season, he has been associated with excite­ment on the floor. Beginning with the Marquette game, he has taken the last shot in regulation time four times. 
Gosh, I was jealous. They love Sean more than me. Next they'll be asking me why I couldn't be like my brother Sean. 

Pete Gegen 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Parents begin to compare their own children to the splendid example Sean has put forward on the court, and the children come up short. No wonder my sister is jealous. 
But as for me, I'll just welcome Sean to my family (as long as I get to be the family favorite). 
On a more serious note, it appears Connor will probably not play in Sunday's game against Duke. Last Thursday Connor suffered an ankle sprain while going for an offensive rebound in practice. 
"If it was a normal sprain, I would be back by now," he said. "But when I planted my foot, it twisted. It was more like an inversion than a sprain." 
The sprain caused ligament damage, for which he is undergoing treatment three times a week. 
If he does not play against Duke, consideration 
• 

will then be given to keeping Connor out longer to make sure his ankle has completely healed. 
Something has to be said about the brawl be­tween Pangborn and Sorin in interhall hockey last week. The biggest thing that stands out in my mind is that the league is supposedly non­checking, but to check is exactly what a player from Sorin chose to do, and as a result a fight broke out. 
The arguments over the brawl can continue, but the ignorance of the ban on checking can't. Many players never played hockey in high school, and to have them mix it up on the ice with guys who are accustomed to checking is to chance having players injured. And the hitting just causes a rise in tensions which, as we have seen, can't always be controlled. 
It is fun to throw your weight around on the ice, but in interhall hockey, the risk is just too great to ignore. 
• 
•
Even though the men's tenms team has a home meet scheduled for Feb. 20 against Northern Illi­nois, don't head over to the Eck Tennis Pavillion to catch the action. 
Delays and cold weather have pushed back the expected completion date of the complex to late April at the earliest. Meanwhile the tennis team, rather than praying for a quick warmup in a week, is looking at the South Bend Racquet Club as an alternate site for the meet. 






