Film series -page 6 


VOL. XXI, NO. 103 TUESDAY MARCH 3 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Nomination of Gates withdrawn by Reagan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Newly in­stalled White House chief of staff Howard Baker announced Monday that Robert Gates' nomination as CIA director was being withdrawn at Gates' request and said President Reagan was ready to tackle the Iran-Contra problem head-on in a speech to the nation. 
Appearing formally for the first time before the White House press corps, Baker said of Reagan: "I've never seen him better than today." 
Baker said "the original plan" was for Reagan to an­nounce a new nominee at the same time Gates' withdrawal was announced, but "it didn't quite come together that way." He said choosing a successor for William Casey as director of the CIA was "an urgent item on the president's agenda." 
Baker also read to reporters a letter from Gates to the pres­ident, saying, "It is apparent that there is strong sentiment in the Senate to await comple­tion, at minimum, of the work of the Senate Select Committee on Iran before acting on my nomination." 
"I believe a prolonged period of uncertainty would be harm­ful to the Central Intelligence Agency, the intelligence com­munity and potentially to our national security," he said. 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., said Sunday 
see GATES, page 4 
Undercover senator finds evidence ofphysical abuse at mental hospital 

Arms negotiators from U.S., USSR agree to more talks 
Associated Press Europe. In all, 572 are to be 
deployed. 

GENEVA-Mter American On the Soviet side, Western and Soviet arms control officials estimate that 441 negotiators met in a special medium-range SS-20s have session Monday, the Soviets been deployed in the Soviet presented Mikhail Gorbac­Union. Gen. Sergei hev's new proposal to eliminate Akhromeyev, Soviet chief of medium-range missiles in staff, said on Monday that 243 Europe. of the SS-20 missiles were 
Searching for a aimed at Europe. breakthrough in the negotia­The Soviet proposal would tions, the two· sides agreed to eliminate medium-range mis­extend the talks indefinitely. siles based in Europe over the 
U.S. officials in Washington next five years, with the Soviet said the American side would Union keeping 100 missiles on respond by presenting a draft its Asian territory and the treaty to remove intermediate­United States maintaining 100 range missiles now aimed at on its territory. Soviet and European targets. In Washington, the White 
Soviet officials said Gorbac­House welcomed the Soviet hev made his new offer on Sat­move. But American officials urday in an attempt to break said any agreement must allow the Geneva deadlock. The pro­the United States to protect posal dropped a Soviet demand Western Europe with short­that the United States restrict range nuclear weapons and its "Star Wars" program that the Americans would in­before an arms control pack­sist on verification to guard age could be agreed on. against Soviet cheating. 
European governments gen­Seven U.S. senators in erally reacted favorably to the Geneva said they were optimis­Soviet initiative but cautioned tic about the prospects for an that they would want to exam­agreement after meeting with ine it closely before moving both the U.S. and Soviet delega­toward banning Soviet SS-20 tions. missiles and NATO's U.S.­But he said the negot1atwns made Pershing 2 and cruise will be "tedious, and we all missiles that are now being pray that the next round will deployed. lead to a great deal of progress 
"We shall need to look care­so that drafting (of a treaty) 
fully at the fine print," said can begin in the summer." 
British Foreign Secretary Sir The proposal outlined by 
Goeffrey Howe. Gorbachev said that the ques­
The missiles that would be tion of medium-range missiles scrapped under an agreement in Europe should be singled out include 316 U.S.-made cruise from other issues and that a 
and Pershing 2 missiles separate agreement be con­already deployed in Western cluded "without delay." 
Proposal passes asking for meat entree on Lent Fridays 
By BUD LUEPKE ey. Copy Editor The senate also voted to extend the deadline for class 
The Student Senate passed officer nominations until 5 a resolution Monday night p.m. and to extend the peti­asking that meat be served tion deadline for nomina­in the dining halls on tions until midnight tonight. Fridays during Lent. Two tickets for class offi­Student Sen. John Gar­cers who missed the original diner, who proposed the deadline to sign up for the resolution, argued that "it's elections were present at the not a real sacrifice" if meat senate meeting. They com­is not offered along with non­plained of a lack of publicity meat entrees. for the first sign-up meeting. Gardiner also said that A member of the ticket students who were not Cath­running for senior class of­olic should not have to abide ficers said no notification by the rules of the Catholic was given in The Observer Church and should not have or in any of the dorms. "All to eat elsewhere if they want we're asking for is a fair meat for their meal. chance. We want to be on the 
The resolution passed 7-6 ballot," he said. with Student Body President However, Director of Mike Switek breaking a tie. Voting Dan Gamache said Gardiner said he would that signs "were put up in 
write the cover letter of the all of the dorms last Tuesday resolution to Director of 
see SENATE, page 4

Food Services William Hick-Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. -A law­maker who got a job at a state mental institution although he used the name of a dead con­victed rapist said Monday he found patient abuse and inci­dents that "made 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' look like a picnic." 
State Sen. Richard Codey said he watched employees corral and prod patients with a pointer, heard a co-worker brag of assaulting sleeping female residents and was or­dered not to intervene when a disturbed patient stuffed ciga­rette ashes and butts into his mouth. 
State officials responded by launching an investigation of hiring practices and conditions at Marlboro Psychiatric Hospi­tal, where Corley spent six days as an orderly last month. 
"If in fact the picture he des­cribed is an accurate one, it's an unacceptable, if not out­rageous, situation," said Human Services Commis­sioner Drew Altman. 
Corley said he proved his guess that applications of prospective workers at mental facilities are rarely scrutinized. 
In 1985, he alleged, more than 300 of the nearly 4,000 employees at New Jersey's seven psychiatric hospitals had criminal records. Under a policy in effect since October 1985, the Department of Human Services requires background checks, including checks of fin­gerprints and Social Security numbers, for all prospective employees of state psychiatric hospitals. 
To determine if hiring prac­
tices had improved since then, 
Codey applied for a job at 
Marlboro, which has about 800 
adult residents, using the 
name, address and birthdate of 
a dead convicted rapist and the 
Social Security number of a 
dead convicted armed robber. 
He described himself as an un­
employed restaurant worker. 
The 40-year-old Democrat 
said he was hired as an orderly after interviews with two admi­nistrators that took 30 minutes, and began work Feb. 17. 

He said he was shocked by cavalier attitudes among fel­low employees and in witness­ing the abuse of patients. He said one worker told him he couldn't wait until evenings, when he would sexually assault sleeping female residents. 
Codey, in his third Senate term after serving eight years in the Assembly, said some employees not only condoned beatings, but also learned how to administer them without get­ting caught. 
"One person said 'If you hit them and someone sees you, you get fired. So what you have to do is put them in a closet and then give them a beating,"' Codey said. 
He described seeing a patient eat cigarette butts and ashes: 
"I saw him get up at 3 in the morning and dive into a trash can to get cigarette ashes .... 
see ABUSE, page 3 
----------~--~~~ --­
--------~----­
The Observer 
In Brief 

The proposed change in library hours will be the subject of a meeting held by Betsy Burke, vice president for academic affairs and college relations, Sara Cook vice president for stu~ent a~fairs, and Julie Parrish, vice'pres­Ident for academic affarrs and college relations elect, with representatives of the Cushwa-Leighton library staff. The meeting was announced by Burke at last night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. -The Observer 
~he deadline for announcing candidacy for class offices has been extended until 5 p.m. today. Petitions must be submitted by midnight of the same date. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
"The Catholic Faith Series" continues tonight at 7-8:30 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Father Monk Malloy, president-elect, will speak on "What Catholics Should Know About Morality." -The Observer 
Opportunities For Psychology Majors will be discussed by Jeff Rice, Career Counselor for Notre Dame's Career and Placement Services, at the Psychology Club meeting, tonight at 7 in Room 117 Haggar Hall. All Arts &Letters majors are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Management Opportunities Night will take place Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Proctor & Gamble amd Career and Place­ment Services will be represented at the presentation. An informal reception will follow. -The Observer 
The "Heart Lights" Program, "Designed For Life," will be presented March 3, 4, and 5 by University Food Services. Each day, one meal will be served with "He_artsafe" foods, prepared to give examples of good­tastmg foods that are healthy. A "Heartlight 5K Run" will take place on Thursday at 3:30p.m. Registration for the run will take place through Non-Varsity Athletics. -The Observer 
"Roots Of Catastrophe in Central America" will be presented by Solon Barraclough, a consultant to UN­RISD, the International Fund for Agricultural Develop­ment, Oxfam and the Transnational Institute, today at 
12:00 p.m. in Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall.-The Observer 
The Last Lecture Series continues tonight at 7:_00 in the Haggar College Center Parlor at Saint Mary's With a lecture by Professor Ann Loux of the English De­partment. -The Observer 
Weather 

Mardi Gras will be sunny and pleasant as the high reaches from 40 to 45 today. Clear skies tonight. Low in the mid 20s. Ash Wednesday will be mostly sunny with temperatures the same. -As­sociated Press 


Design Editor ....... Alice Kroeger Design Assistant ....................... 
........................... Eileen Lawrence Layout Staff......... Matt Zyniewicz Typesetter .............. John Connelly ................................... Jose Novas News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ............... Chris Julka .................................. Bud Luepke Sports Copy Editor..... Pete Gegen 
Viewpomt Copy Editor .... .. .............................. Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout .... Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ... Tom Beatty Accent Layout.. .......... Carey Gels Typist ............~.~ .. ~-~ ... Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ........ Ron Almiron SMC Day Editor . Sandy Cerimele Ad Design .....~ .......... Joan Wrappe Photographer .. ~ ......... Mike Moran 

Tile Obsernr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Observer is a member of The Assod•ted Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, March 3, 1987-page 2 

Adnlim-·s-tr-a-ti_o_n_a_v--o-id-s-'lrangate' by revoking Scholastic suspension 
I had already outlined a very sarcastic article about the suspension of Scholastic magazine last Thursday when suddenly a great misfor­tune had to occur: the Office of Student Activ­ities rescinded the suspension and retreated from its original position. 
Today was supposed to have been D-Day. I would have pointed out that not only had the administration violated its own rule book, but while the Office of Student Activities was suspending a student magazine for printing a blurry picture of what looked like one person leaning over another (if one squinted), it was showing such wholesome, values-oriented flicks like "9 112 Weeks" in the Engineering Auditorium. 
But what did the administration do? At the last moment it blinked, and poor me was left with no story. 
Or so I thought last Thursday. Yet after some reflection I realized there is a very important story here. 
Right now the administration looks rather foolish, now that it has in effect admitted that it was wrong all along, even if it hasn't exactly said so. Still there are worse things than looking foolish once in a while. One of those things is trying to save face, regardless of the costs. 
The prime example of this, of course, is the national premiere of "Bonzo II" which came to television stations everywhere with the dis­closure of the White House's attempted courtship with the Ayatollah. As it was, of course, the President acted with transcendent stupidity in authorizing the Israelis to ship mis­siles to Iran because of the "moderates" in the Ayatollah's regime and in letting Poindexter and North wreak their mischief with the Con­tras. 
Yet by pretending to be infallible and denying any regret for the action at the onset, Reagan made an embarrassing issue into a disastrous one. People quickly put two and two together: If the President is acting totally phlegmatic now, what other scandals has he presided over by simply smiling and nonchalantly saying "Well ...." 
By contrast, the administration of this Uni­versity quashed its own version of the Iran­Contra affair--1 suppose if the suspension had lasted longer we would have eventually called it Scholasticgate to be gimmicky like the na­tional press--by concerning itself more with doing.right rather than saving face. 
Here also officials did not seem to be thinking too clearly, regardless of the good intentions, if one compares their action to what is prescribed in duLac. Yet in this case there was a difference in that officials were not afraid to make an admission that they had made a mis­take, even if the admission was only tacit. 
Chris Julka 
Copy Editor 

I don't believe in complimenting the admin­istration too much, for it leads to boring, schmaltzy writing. Also there is much to criticize in the Office of Student Activities' "shoot first, ask questions later" approach to the Scholastic. Still, one has to admit that the administration deserves credit for backing down where it could have held out until the end of the semester just for appearance's sake. 
By contrast one may say that if Reagan really believed that 240 million people are so obtuse that they would stick to their VCRs and forget the entire scandal, then the Teflon President has a teflon brain. Yet he heeded conventional wisdom. Looking good comes first, as it does with actors, corporations, and job applicants. It's like that antiperspirant commercial with the coach who lost the superbowl saying "Whatever you do, never let them see you sweat." 
Yet although last Thursday the Office of Stu­dent Activities may have looked a bit wet under the armpits, it managed to make its Irangate last only four days. Maybe when the next Re­publican President is elected sometime after the year 2000, he will have enough intelligence to realize that antiperspirant commercials can sometimes be wrong. 

Tonight The Sophomore Literary Festival Presents: 
David Black and Irini Spanidou 
Story editor of Hill Author of the Street Blues and au­critically acclaimed thor of Murder At The novel, God's Snake. Met. 

Tuesday, March 3 8:00PM Ubrary Auditorium 
The Observer 
Tuesday, March 3, 1987 -page 3 . 



The Observer 
The news department is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
Questions should be directed to Chris Bednarski or Jim Riley at the Observer office (239-5313). Resumes and one-page personal statements are due by Tuesday, March 10. 

Theology 
a1 the University ofNotre Dame 
Soplwrrwres 
~ 

Consider a major in Theology or Theology as a second major 

II Come and discuss the possibiliti£s TONIGHT 
'II' 
7:oo-a.. oo p.m.

Room 341 0 'Siw.ughn£Ssy 
Observer general board members chosen for 1987-88publishingyear 
Ob!i4'ner Staff Report design manager. Whitton, an 
accounting major, is now ser-
The Observer has annouced ving on the advertising sales 
the selection of 14 students to and layout staff. 
complete its general board for Tracy Schindele, a junior ac­
1987-88. counting major, has been 
Melinda Chapleau, a sopho-named controller. Schindele, 
more in the College of Arts and whose hometown is Tempe, 
Letters, has been chosen ad-Ariz., previously has served as 
vertising manager. Chapleau a design editor. 
is from Granger, Ind., and is Michael Naughton, a Pro­
currently serving as an adver-gram of Liberal Studies major, 
tising sales representative. has been named Accent editor. 
Chris Bednarski, a junior Naughton, a junior from Santa from Marcellus, N.Y., has been Clara, Calif., is now an Accent selected as a news editor. Bed-copy editor. narski, a governmenVALPA Laura Stanton, a freshman major, is now an assistant news from St. Louis, has been named editor. graphic arts manager. Stanton 
Jim Riley, a junior majoring is now serving as a staff artist. in business administration, James Carroll, a junior from also has been chosen as a news Washington, D.C., will con­editor. Riley is from Sagamore tinue his duties as photography Hills, Ohio, and is currently an manager. Carroll, a Program assistant news editor. of Liberal studies major, is en-
Marilyn Benchik, a sopho-tering his second year as pho­more majoring in English tography manager. literature and minoring in sec-Dennis Corrigan, a junior ondary education, has been American Studies major, will selected as Saint Mary's editor. resume his duties as sports Benchik is from South Bend editor. Corrigan, whose par­and is currently Saint Mary's ents reside in Kaiserslautern, assistant editor. West Germany, is entering his 
Michael Whitton, a sopho-second year as sports editor. more from Oceanside, Calif, Shawn Sexton, a manage­bas been named advertising ment information systems 
Abuse 
continuedfrom page 1 
When he finished up, the atten­dants who had been smoking gave him their cigarette butts to eat." 
Codey said he was told not to intervene. There was no immediate 
comment from the hospital's executive director, David Sorensen. He did not return a telephone call to his office Mon­day. 
Codey said patients were herded into a day room in the mornings and spent the next 16 hours there, leaving only for their three meals. 
Referring to Ken Kesey's major, will continue his duties as systems manager. Sexton is a junior from Beachwood, Ohio. 
Chris Murphy, a sophomore majoring in American Studies, will resume his duties as View­point editor. Murphy, whose hometown is Manchester, Mo., began his duties as Viewpoint editor earlier this semester. 
Mark McLaughlin, a junior from Middletown, N.J., has been named project manager. McLaughlin, an aerospace en­gineering major, is now ser­ving as co-production manager. 
Melissa Warnke, a junior ac­countancy major, will resume her duties as production manager. Warnke, whose hometown is Westlake, Ohio, has served as co-production manager since January. 
The general board was selec­ted by incoming editor-in-chief, Kevin Becker, in consultation with the new managing editor, Mark Pankowski, and the new business manager, Brian Mur­ray. 
The new general board will assume its duties March 24. 
novel about a mental institu­tion, Codey said: "what I saw made 'One Flew Over the Cuck­oo's Nest' look like a picnic." 
Codey, chairman of the Sen­ate Institutions, Health and Welfare Committee, said he plans to draft legislation that would force state psychiatric units to screen applicants bet­ter. 

Are You Dedicated, Enthusiastic and Creative? 
Deadline Extended For Student Activities Board Commissioners 
Campus Entertainment Special Events Musical Entertainment Cultural Arts Movies 
Ideas and Issues Services Publicity Business Auditor 
Pick up your application from the Secretary on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Application due March 6. 
Interested in people? Would you like your degree to lay a 
foundation for understanding the world better... 
Meet Your Major Wednesday, March 4 
4:30 pm -5:30 pm 21 0 O'Shaughnessy 
~mm00c!J@rr {}Ill@ ~rna; nw~~~ romc!J cernmn.n.~~rrJ~ mr! m 
~~@~ A~T~~O~OlOGW 
The Observer 

----------------------------------------------lT~u~esday, March 3, 1987-page 4 
Erroneous broadcast says Rockford hit by tornado 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A national Weather Service bulletin that erroneously said the city of Rockford had been demolished by a tornado was sent to hundreds of Mid­west radio and television stations Monday and read on the air by some announcers. 
One broadcaster whose station used the bulletin said "that's very upsetting to find out you may have panicked thousands of people needlessly." 
The bulletin, sent on the weather service's wire at 4:55a.m., said: 
"At 4:35 a.m. CST a tor­nado hit the Rockford, Ill., weather office. This storm was moving southeast at 50 mph. This is a dangerous storm. Take cover immedi­ately. 
"The entire town of Rock­ford has been demolished. If you are in the path of this tornado, you should go to a basement shelter if avail­able . . . Abandon cars and mobile homes." 

Five minutes later, a dis­claimer was sent explaining that the bulletin was trans­mitted by mistake, said meteorologist Steve Kahn at the service's Chicago office. 
The bulletin was part of a test being conducted to prepare for the upcoming tornado season, and was de­signed only for weather ser­vice personnel, Kahn said. 
He blamed a change in computer software at the service's Chicago office for letting the bulletin get out. 
Kahn said a weather ser­vice worker in Rockford who saw the bulletin called the 
Chicago  office  and  said  
"'I'm  a  survivor'  and  
laughed."  

noon. Baker released Reagan's let­
Gates 
ter in response, in which the 
continuedfrom page 1 president said that "with great 
that Gates' nomination "could regret I've agreed to Robert 
be in some difficulty" if Gates' request." 
brought to a confirmation vote "I've asked Bob to continue 
soon after the Tower report, ser.ving under a new director." 
and other senators have been Baker said Reagan would 
even more negative about give his address at 9 p.m. EST 
Gates' chances in the current Wednesday. He said he had 
climate. gone over portions of it with the 
Baker said Gates met with president and thought it would 
the president Monday after-"have a profound effect." 
r~1\fifAVEAP~ t Early Bird Special ~ ~ Now renting for Fall ~ 
§ 2 Bedrooms completely ~ ~ . furnibs~;d ~ 
§ 8zgn up e; ore break and ~;. 
§ ~ 
§ receive 'a 10o/o discount ~ § Call 234-6647 § ~ Protected by Pinkerton Security § 
J~~··.Q-.·.Q>~~!.~~-~··4··.//.1/./>-.Q>o.Q>·q.oq.·~.~ 


This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. For just $89 round trip, you and your friends will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes. 

~--GREYHOUND leave the driving to us~ 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present ~ ~d coUege. student I.D. car~ upon purchase. No othe~ discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other parllclpatmg earners. Certam ~tncuons apply. Offer effecuve 211/'07 through 4/30/ffl. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. © 19'07 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
Senate 
continued from /JORe 1 
night for the original meeting held last Wednesday. 
In fairness to any other ticket which may have missed the original meeting, the senate voted unanimously to extend the deadlines. 
In other business, Senior Class President Dave Miklos announced that 1,068 students will attend the senior formal. 
Telemarketing 
Earn S and have fun. Hours: Monday and Tuesday Spm to 10pm, Sunday 11am to 7pm Good pay. Short to Indefinite positions. Immediate openings. 
MANPOWER 
Temporary Staff Specialists 320 W. LaSalle 234.0157 


\lielV~_O_i_n_t____________~Tue~sday,~Marc~h3,19~87-p~age5 
Proportional system could stabilize electorate 

We Americans like to think that we have one of the fairest electoral sys­tems in the world. When we go into the polling booth on election day we are confident that our voice is being heard and that the will of the people will be translated into a truly representative result. We look askance at nations such as the Soviet Union where no choice is offered the electorate and where the Communist Party's preselected can­didate is assured of victory. When we look at the whopping ninety-nine per­cent plus majorities secured by such candidates, we rightly question the value of popular participation where there is no real competition to begin with. 
David Koyzis 
guest column 

But what about our own electoral sys­tem? The choice between two candi­dates is considerably preferable to no choice at all. Yet it must be admitted that even our electoral system effec­tively operates so as to limit our choices on election day. Most of us have had the experience of going into the polling booth, reading the names of the Dem­ocratic and Republican candidates for a certain office, and wondering if there were no one better to vote for. Of course, there are usually other parties on the ballot, for example, the Socialist Worker, Prohibition, Libertarian, Citi­zen's, and so forth. But everyone realizes that these other parties have no chance to win. Even when an Inde­pendent presidential candidate, such as John Anderson in 1980, succeeds in get­ting enough public attention, sympa­thetic people are afraid to waste their votes. 
Why is this? Is it simply a matter of Americans being loyal to the two major parties? Apparently not. Recent studies have consitently shown a decline in party loyalty over the last generation. Whereas previous genera­tions had been willing to identify them­selves with one of the two major par­ties, many more people are now calling themselves independents. Yet despite the rise of independentism, nearly all national and state offices are still monopolized by Republicans and Democrats. This suggests that someth­ing else may be at work. 
In 1951 Maurice Duverger wrote his classic "Political Parites" in which he argued that electoral systems largely determine party systems. Herein lies 
Doonesbury 

OKAY, 7He  CJAY'sREAUY  WHAT?... I  
(JT}ER AJ?B5  'ill/.l.tWflK­ ~I  /<NOWI~ILW,  
AJ(E aMI!¥7  IN6 ON HI$  $11<.  8UTIGOTTA  
tON5TRON6!  RRSTMIU/CW!  I  TAI<E Pf?OFIT.'  
~ l&T's BAIL!  I  ITTJRNJOAT  
\  4:30!  '\  

the key to why we are stuck with the Democrats and Republicans. The United States operates for the most part under a single-member­constituency-district system. This means that a given geographical dis­trict elects one representative for nearly all offices at each level of gov­ernment. Even those districts that elect multiple representatives (for example, the fifty states with two senators each) usually elect them on a at-large basis. For purposes of representation in the federal House of Representatives, the nation is divided-often arbitrarily-into 435 districts of roughly equal popula­tion. Each district elects one represen­tative. This seems fair enough at first glance. 
But imagine that on election day the Democrats win fifty-one percent of the vote within every district. According to the current arrangement all 435 seats would thus be occupied by Democrats, despite the fact that forty-nine percent 
of the electorate voted Republican. More to the point, imagine an election in which the Republican candidate won forty-seven percent of the vote, the Democrat forty-six percent and, say, the Socialist seven percent with in each district. With elctions decided by plurality and not by absolute majority, an entirely Republican House would have been put in place by a minority of the electorate. Is this fair? 
In many countries, elections are decided by some form of proportional representation, often called simply PR. If the United States were to adopt aPR electoral system, the actual popular vote would be more faithfully reflected in the make-up of the House of Repre­sentatives. If forty-five percent of the American people voted Democratic, then forty-five percent of the House seats would go to Democratic candi­dates. If fifty-five percent voted Repub­lican, the same proportion of seats would be allocated to this party. Under such an arrangement, the danger of minorities either dominating or being locked-out would no longer be present. 
Some might object to the instituiton of PR on the grounds that it would lead to the end of our two-party system. This, they fear, would result in greater instability, as in present-day Italy or Fourth Republican France (1946-58), both of which are or were characterized by multiple parties and political frag­mentation. It is indeed likely that the adoption of PR would put an end to the two-party system. But a multi-party 
IT'5COMJNG 
ARE YOU
lJ(J(,{INf GET(}(/(, 
MARRIFJI),
I 7ELL>VU! 
CLAY~ w~./JitAR£? I (J(X){). 7HANIC5, 
CHICAGO! 
system does not necessarily lead to in­stability or fragmentation, as is evident in such nations as Norway, Sweden, and the Netherlands, whose political sys­tem are multi-partied yet highly stable. 
Moreover, the decline of the Demo­cratic and Republican parties and the rise of other parties might actually lead to greater stability, since real or poten­tial minorities would be more fairly represented and thus more readily heard within the legislative arena. Un­der our present system minorities are represented only if they happen to reside in a district where they are in the majority. But most minorities in our country, particularly ideological and religious minorities (i.e., minorities of conviction, as opposed to minorities of interest), are scattered across the country and can claim majority status in no single region. If they wish to be heard, and if neither of our two major parties adequately represents their position, then they must resort to extra-parliamentary means. Adoption of PR, possibly in combination with our current district system, would not only serve to prevent future instability, but would ensure more fair representation of all groups and communities in this country who wish their voies to be heard. 

David Koyzis teaches in the Freshman Writing Program and recently received the Ph.D. in Government and Interna­tional Studies. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Speaker's motives not prescribed in invitation Dear Editor: 
My colleagues Fred Freddoso and Janet Smith's Viewpoint piece on the­recent abortion debate (February 20, 1987) displayed many a discontent, but it was difficult to locate their precise target. They endorsed the idea and the fact of a debate, but were unhappy with the choice of Maguire, and most un­happy because Maguire predictably turned the invitation itself into a pretext for legitimizing "dissent" abor­tion among Catholics. So much is clear; but they appear to charge Richard McBrien, another colleague, with re­sponsibility for Maguire's misuse of the invitation. In the course of that indirect and curious misattribution of responsi­bility, they suggest yet other topics which might be debated here, to give their proponents "the opportunities to claim that our invitation itself renders their position a respectable Catholic po­sition?" 
That innuendo, my friends, is unfair. You may disagree with a colleague's choice of speakers, but do not try to saddle the ones who organize events with responsibility for the rhetorical use which those invited may make of their invitation. That is not only misas­signing responsibility, but suggesting a norm for deciding public speakers which would severely restrict our stu­dent' opportunities to hear diverse viewpoints -lest those invited misuse our invitation to their advantage. 

(Incidentally, the alternative speakers suggested -Michael Tooley or Judith Thomson-would have been singularly inept in a theolgical debate.) The sub­stantive results of the debate can only have delighted my colleagues, as they indeed aver, so why should they fasten on Maguire's misuse of the event to gain publicity, and then attempt to at­tribute that fault to the person who in­vited him? It certainly seems gratuitous to proceed to denigrate a col­league for staging an event which so admirably served both university and church. And if not gratuitous, why? 
David Burrell Professor Philosophy and Theology 


On the Viewpoint pages your opinions "add up" 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the day 
"The Roman Church has never erred, and, according to the scrip­ture, never shall err." 
Pope Gregory VII 
( 1020-1085) 
"Dictatus Papae" 

General Board 
Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager .......... _................. Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager .......... ·-················· Melissa Wamke of Notre Dame du Lac and Sslnt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark McLaughlin of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor ............................. _............ Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column 
Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmhoh opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1818 





Accent 
Tuesday, March 3, 1987-page 6 

RastaMan ••• 
Special to The Observer 
I 
pso Facto, a Minneapolis-based reggae band, will return to the South Bend area with a show tonight at Theodore's. And the best part is, the show's free. 
Sponsored at Notre Dame by the Musical Entertainment Committee, Ipso Facto has also played two shows this year at Mitchell's Indiana Club. 
The band's debut album, Communication, has been heralded as an exposition of solid reggae music combined high acclaim for their musical the rest of the band members with pop, rock. and R&B ar­prowess and innovative style. draw the audience into the per­rangements. And after a perfor­The band's goal is to bring formance with the overwhelm­mance at the 1986 Sun Splash, reggae music to new heights ing rhythm of its bass and per­the annual international reggae where it can be enjoyed by a cussion. music festival in Montego Bay, wide variety of musical tastes. Last year the band scored Jamaica, they are ready to Ipso Facto's attempt to create big in the Minneapolis area outdo themselves on stage a unique sound for itself with their song "No Cocaine," tonight. among bands of the reggae which was promoted in a 
After forming as a group in mold comes to life in the public service campaign by a Minneapolis in 1983, Ipso band's musicians. Band local music store chain. Facto has paid their dues founders and siblings Wain, Tonight Notre Dame and touring the country warming up Juju and Julitta Mcfarlane pro· Saint Mary's will have the for such groups as The Kinks, vide it with an on-stage energy chance to welcome what one The Clash, Third World and that catapults even the most critic called "one of the best UB40. Along the way they have passive foot tapper into the reggae bands in the world" at captured numerous awards and heat of the action. They and 8 p.m. at Theodore's. 

Annenberg 
N 
KIM YURATOVAC going to see aren't going to documentaries, and less what has done well in other The films are subsidized by Features writer have 'boy meets girl' storylines popular fllms, are free and cities." the College Of Arts and Letters, or patriotic themes like 'Top shown in the O'Shaughnessy Both Falkenberg and Peter­The Department of Communi­ow, darners who have Gun', but they will experiment Loft. The more popular films, son admit that although the cation and Theatre and The made a habit of complain­with different fllm techniques." which are expected to generate series is popular among the Snite Museum. The rental fees ing about the dreaded Notre a larger audience, are shown in faculty and students, its budget for films, according to Falken­Dame-South Bend social scene, Both Peterson and Falken­the 300-seat Annenberg generally does not break even. berg, varies from $45-$50 for have yet another non-alcoholic berg encourage students to Auditorium for $1.50. "Most Universities get budgets older movies, to up to $700 for social activity. The Annenberg new movies. Most commercial Film Series shows fllms on theatres, she adds, make most Monday, Tuesday, and Friday in of their money from conces­the Annenberg Auditorium of sions, which they don't have in the Snite, and on Wednesday the Annen berg series."The se­and Thursday in the ries is a service to the commu­O'Shaughnessy Loft. nity," says Peterson. 
Upcoming movies recom­The Friday series seems to mended by Professor Falken­be the most popular among berg are "Home Of The Brave,"the students. Woody Allen clas­about the multi-media perfor­sics like "Annie Hall" and "Han­mances of avant-garde rock nah and Her Sisters," avant­star, Laurie Anderson, "Purplegarde fllms like "Home Of The Rose Of cairo," a Woody Allen Brave," and horror flicks like film, and "Sans Soleil," an un­"Dawn of The Dead" are just a usual film about the orientalfew of the films offered this culture. Professor Peterson 

semester. 
says, "We just don't have any bad films." His favorite upcom­

Professor Pam Falkenberg, of ing fllms are "Hearts and the Notre Dame Department of Minds," about the Vietnam war, Communication and Theatre "Sans Soleil," and anything odd 
says that the Communication like "Repo Man." and Theatre faculty chooses The fllm series is becoming the weeknight fllms in conjunc­more and more popular among tion with the courses they are take film classes to improve Falkenberg says "We try to to get fllms. Here because the the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's teaching. And the other fllms their knowledge and under­show a range of films. This year films we use for classes are for community. As students be­are chosen according to what standing of film. "Taking a it's kind of hip to show movies general interest, we don't come more aware of the variety the faculty thinks the Notre course in film is a way for stu­like "Repo Man" and "Home Of usually get a budget at all. We of fllms offered, the Friday Dame community would like to dents to appreciate any film The Brave". We're less bound have to choose films that pay night films may become in­see. and to increase their range of by commercial restraints. We for themselves. Generally, they corporated into the Friday so­
taste in films," Falkenberg choose films by looking at don't, "Peterson admits. cial scene. 




"Notre Dame is an intelligent adds. "There used to be an 
audience," Falkenberg active film culture her in the adds,"But it's hard to generate 1960's. They had discussion a crowd for avant-garde groups after movies. I wouldn't 
f11ms.Anything that's too differ­mind seeing something like 
ent doesn't get a big audi­that happen again," she said. ence." Professor James Peter· son says that students may According to Falkenberg, the 
overlook the series because it weeknight attendance varies doesn't have the big-names from a few for certain and famous titles of alot of documentaries and foreign commercial fllms. "Students films, to full houses for films have to keep an open mind like "Woodstock."The Wednes­that alot of the films we're day and Thursday films, largely 

Questions should be directed to Mike Naughton at The Observer office (239-5313). Resumes
Theindependentstudentnewspaper 
and personal statments due

serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is 
Friday, March 6. 

accepting applications for the following positions: 
• Features Assistant Editors (2) The Observer 
3rd Floor, Lafortune Student Center

• Features Copy Editors 

Business 
Tuesday, March 3, 1987 -page 7 
CHANGES IN THE CPI

Saudi Arabians still adjusting 
Components of the federal government's main measure of Inflation have been adjusted to reflect current spending trends. 


to declining oil prices, profits 
By YORK DAMM of supply and demand on the doning its role as OPEC's Business Writer international oil market. There swing producer. It began ex­was a worldwide decline in pe­porting its crude oil on a "net­
Saudi Arabia, the most pow­troleum demand, and at the back" basis. This brought price erful member of the Organiza­same time, countries outside of advantages on international tion of Petroleum Exporting OPEC such as Norway, Britain spot markets. As of May 1986, Countries <OPEC) is strug­and Mexico flooded the market production averaged 4.5 mil­gling with low oil prices which with oil. lion barrels a day. cause major losses in revenues By mid-1985, the worldwide The decreasing oil tevenues for the country. surplus of oil had Saudi oil pro­are reflected in the import and 
A Shell report points out that duction dropping to levels not export statistics. Imports went 90 percent of Saudi Arabia's in­seen since the 1960's. In August down from $39 billion in 1983 to come is derived from the ex­of 1985 Saudi oil production hit $23 billion in 1985. Exports suf­port of oil. Thus the drop of its lowest point when as low as fered a major loss from almost prices on the international oil two million barrels a day were $50 billion in 1983 to about $30 market hurts Saudi Arabia con­produced. The country's gov­billion in 1985. siderably. ernment faced serious finan­
Major construction and in­cial problems in trying to per­However, because Saudi vestment plans, which were in­form its role as OPEC's "swing Arabia is the second largest oil itiated when oil prices quad­producer." producer after the Soviet Union rupled after the 1973 oil shock, The swing producer has so and has resources which total have been brought to a halt. much oil that it is able to flood 25 percent of the world's Revenues obtained during the the market at any time in order reserves, it seems that Saudi 1973-1983 period enabled Saudi to cause a change in oil prices. Arabia can wait for better Arabia to invest heavily in its The Saudi budget deficit ran times in patience. With Hisham infrastructure, industry and a high $25 billion which could Nazer replacing Sheikh Ahmed agricultural sector. only be covered by drawing Yamani by Royal decree in economies. So far, some im­complex with the help of the 
Until recently Saudi Arabia from its foreign assets which December 1986 as the Minister provement seems to have United States, Japan, France was the largest reserve holder were built up during the 1970's. of Petroleum and Mineral Re­taken place with two million and West Germany. in the world, all of which The pressure on Saudi sources, Saudi Arabia is barrels of oil being taken off One example of the am­changed with the decline of oil Arabia's policymakers grew aiming for prices that will the market as a result of bitious goals of King Fahd and prices from $30 per barrel to with the news that even OPEC exceed the present $18 per bar­restricted output. his advisers is the construction under $10. This forced policy producers were perceived to be rel price. of two new cities, Yanbul and makers to draw upon official exceeding their production Saudi Arabia, however, does Jubail, which are being con­foreign assets which have quotas, and these violations of The December meeting of not only represent a major oil structed near the "kingdom's reportedly declined by $50 bil­the cartell's negotiated ceilings OPEC showed for the first time power. It is also a country most ambitious petrochemical, lion during the last three years. were at Saudi Arabia's ex­that all 13 members were will­which is trying to become less refining, steel and petroleum 
The reduction of petroleum pense. ing to agree upon production dependent on the exportation of related projects," according to exports was brought about by The Saudi government ceilings to prevent further petroleum by building up a Price Waterhouse Publica­dramatic shift in the balance reacted immediately by aban-losses in revenues for their highly competitive industrial tions. 
Minor league owners score with inexpensive franchises 
Everybody knows that major league baseball attendance record with a gate surpassing one million, Joseph Buzas also believes in the system. This 68­players make big salaries. In fact, 20 of the 26 teams an attendance figure higher than that of some major year-old paid 8 bits for the bankrupt Reading Phillies are running at a loss these days, mainly because of 
league teams that year. in 1978 only to bail out eight years later for $1 million. these high labor costs. With their salaries averaging He didn't bother calculating his annualized return: over $400,000 and their use of the hero's image, "The majors are subsidizing us tremendously. You
Alex
players in the majors can count on people remem­have to be real stupid if you can't make money in bering what their pictures look like. this environment." 
VonderHaar
But what happens in the minor leagues? This is Fans notice a big difference with the lower-salaried where you find the teams that make money. Not only Business Bits players. If they aren't picky about watching players 
! 
do they enjoy the benefits of lower salaries, but the -~~-llllll!!~llll!l!l!l-~~-~~~111!!!11111!1!1!1111~-with experience, a family of five can enjoy a night major league teams have for years subsidized their As for profitability, the team A. Ray Smith paid of hot dogs, soda, and baseball for less than $20. In farm teams in the spirit of "player development." $50,000 for in 1961 he was able to sell three years ago the majors, the same clan would have trouble just Robert Lurie, owner of the San Francisco Giants, for $5 million. These are the minor leagues? getting bleacher tickets for that amount of money. told Forbes Magazine that their lack of concern about Even in tiny South Bend, Ind., franchises are This heaven, however, may not last forever. this irony was due to more pressing problems. "One making a fast buck. A lawyer and an Illinois couple Already the farm clubs are required to provide fin­
day we're going to wake up and say, 'Hey you're paid $20,000 two years ago to set up a club for the ancial statements to their partners in the majors, making money and we're losing it!' " Single A Midwest League. They never got around to and the majors may insist on a cut in the future. The Triple A Louisville Redbirds are a prime ex­doing it. Last year, they sold their rights to some Surprisingly, this would lead to the minor leagues 
ample. By 1983, they had broken the minor league New Yorkers for a cool half a million. helping out the salaries for major league players. 


THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO GET INVOLVED! SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSIONER: PLAN: AN TOSTAL Welcome Week Multi-Clutural Fall Festival Etc.... 
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT: 
BRING IN: The Wallets Nazz Competition Band Jams IPSO FACTO-TONITE! 
Pick up application at SAB office-2nd floor LaFor-
MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES NIGHT 
Wednesday, March 4 6:30pm Hayes Healy Auditorium 
*Speakers from Proctor & Gamble and Career and Placement Services will present advice on career choice and hunting for jobs in management-related fields. 
*Sponsored by ND Management Club 

r-------------~----­
The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The Nn men's basketball team is ranked 20th in this week's AP Top 20. UNLV remains No. 1, while DePaul fell to fifth. ­
Associated Press 
ABC television announced today that the network will televise Notre Dame football's season opener Sept. 12 at Michigan. -Special to the Observer 
The OC hockey team will play Morrissey tonight at 10:30 at the ACC in the semifinals of the Interhall playoffs. -The Observer 
The OC lacrosse team will definitely hold practice tomorrow at 4:30 at Stepan field. -The Observer 
Tuesday, March 3, 1987-page 8 
Bookstore Basketball XVI late registration will be held Thursday at the SAB office (second floor LaFortune) from 3 to 5 p.m. Any team that has not registered should do so then. There is a $5 fee per team. For more information contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts ctassifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per live

Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
AT PLANE TIX FOH ~ALE MARY We danced early Thursday at ATTENTION ALL SINGLE LADIES -ANGIE KOWALSKI-Congratulations on SPRING BREAK LOANS SPRING BREAK OR GOING HOME TO Senior Bar. You had a sweet watch. Now Jack Dellafiora is the most suavey and being an 87-88 Leman's RAil We will Morrissey Loan Fund TUCSON.ARIZONA how do I lind you? The guy in the green debonner guy on campus. Get your have a blast! Love ya-Leaner All Students Eligible Leave 311 5, Return :¥.!3 to 0'Hara sweater. chance while you still can. Call 4651 Except May 87 Grads TYPING AVAILABLE FOR $130 RT CHEAP $20-200 30 days 287-4082 PLEASE CALL NOW JJ X3255 OR OH, TO BE IN MISSOUR-AH 1% interest SEND MESS. TO 141 KEENAN IN FEBRUARY 2nd Fl Lafortune
RACHEL NIGRO •• Buy Now & Seve •• 
•• Spring Break Travel to New York? •• (PART II) 11:30-12:30 M-F 
is back

Typing And so begins the night on the town. Ann
and so is her back•• $90 AT Tix to Newark ••

Free Pickup and Delivery cuts out early to the bars, only to find an
233-2235•• Leave 3112, Return :¥.!1 ••

2n-7406 old, white-haired man leading Mizzou-rah WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU 
•• Call X3586 NOW •• 
cheers (maybe he just won the Big 8?). WERE TURNED ON?WANTED Bring $$$$ Lots and lots of $$$$ 
Chris is upset that "Liquor. Guns, Ammo 

and Live Bait is closed, so Pete. with his The Pope says. "Vatican Ill" at CHIPS DEMAND DIRCUS LUNCHIII excellent driving skills (What median?), -$2 pitcher~!!!
Farley's First Official Daisy Bouquet Sale This Wed. & Thurs. al lunch and dinner OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, Friday at lunch ---delivery will be before 
Thank you St. Jude tor your help­gets directions from Mickey at 7-11. AtThank you St. Jude lor your help­the party Mark goes up the river, again Need graduation lickets. Will sell my
yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, Spring Break ...c·mon, be a nice human! II
Thank ypu St. Jude tor your help-Asia. ALl fields. $900-2000
................................................................ much to Karen's delight. Julkalizer shows roommate for them. Call Mark at 2339. 
TURTLE CREEK APTS RESERVA­everyone how to party with 365 Far
mo.Sighlseeing.Free lnfo.Write IJC. PO Ride offered lor two to No. Virgini&falls BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 Church. Leave ()3ft 3 return 0:¥.!2. $50
TIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED. Sides. as well as how to scam (Chris-she Camp Aiello update-Remember you
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS
CLOSE TO CAMPUS FRNSHD. was hitting on you!). After 20 hours of need a collared shirt to get into Stude's STARTING NOWI CALL 272-4135. 
roundtrip. Call Jim X2250
STUDIOS 1,2,& 2 BR TWNHSES. 272-driving, conferences and partying, they Lounge.
NEED TO BUY
8124 return to the hotel only to lind Reeg-o­
MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PRINTER & IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR 
Vatican Ill mania in bed looking rather fufliiled (love Hey Men Swimmers-Kenny B. Scully,SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233-7722 KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL those PJ'sl). But Pete gets to take the Happy Pat. Uptown Tom, Wege. Terry.
OR 239-4478. 272-4135.
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Vatican Ill Tripper to the bus stop (who needs sleep Tiny. Nick. Fro, Haas. Pappy, Raleigh. anyway?) . E.. BJ, Honorable. Big John. Ledrick.
•• 194 •• 
Vatican Ill Thus concludes this adventure. brought Geo. Duke. Crazy. Buddha. Hey Rog.
SO MAYBE CONNECTICUT ISN'T THE to you by the world's safest driver. Neidemeir. Butch, Tommy P.. Petrill.
PLACE TO BE FOR SRING BREAK THANK YOU ST. ANTHONY FOR PE­
at Chips. Tuesday! T.D.. Fast Eddie. Pokey. Fred. Mr. Notre
LOST/FOUND 
I STILL NEED A RIDE, SO IF YOU'RE TITION GRANTED. 
Dame, Donger. and Rich the hairy legged HEADED TO D.A.C. 

TIM--CALL MARGARET. GOD bitch-Let's go out and kick some butt this 3 FAIRFIELD OR WESTCHESTER

LOST& WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU weekend and show people what we've 
COUNTY. HELP ME OUT. TOM £1945 
WERE TURNED ON? Double Trouble got!! Oh give me happ!!Camp Aiello, Thursday March 5.
found: gold Benrus quartz watch contact WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU THE LAW lost and found La Fortune and 
" ..ANNE FROM SMC.... RETURN AIRLINE TICKET FOR SALE 
WERE TURNED ON? 
FREUDIAN SLIP Do you remember???I NEED RIDES TOFROM MIDWAY AIR-PHILIDELPHIA TO O'HARE SAT. MAR. WAS LAST YOU
WHEN THE TIME 
Lost: 2 rings, SMC CIBSII ring and Ruby II Setting: Firat floor Alumni Hall
WERE TURNED ON?
PORT 21 DEPART 7:30PM $50.00 CALL KRIS­
ring and one Selko watch. lady's two CHIPS Time: Midnight
I need to arrive at Midway by 9:30pm TIN AT 3390
tone. Lost in the ACC field house on 2-22. Wednesday Night The thievery, the passion, the loft... 
on Fri. Mar. 13 and I need a ride back THIS IS YOUR CHANCE TO SEE: Extreme sentimental value. ff found to ND from Midway on Mon. Mar. 23. I "One of the most popular bands on please call Dena at 284-5209. REWARD could leave the airport anytime after 6:00 Happy late birthday to Howard's only campus!!" 
PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! JOHN CARNEY -How will I ever ask youYes, that's right. Vatican Ill is at CHIPS.

am. CALL PAUL £2287. Brad H.l Love, EI,NP,AA,MM, and MS tonight. The best in music.
LOST--LOST/I GOLD ROLEX WATCH with out if you keep linding new girllrrends? 
and HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING, pos­THE LAW
From the blues to the B-52'sl! 
sibly at the Miami Room in LaFortune, at SEE SPOOK-I DID !Til
Vatican Ill --Be there! 
or in Flanner Hall. Reward for return­CHIPS Friday Night Please call Eric i 078. Lost around 13 DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH YOUTH IN AISA --a moral dilemma 
•••• J. •••••••••••••••.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..
DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH Ill
February. AT A DINING HALL NEAR YOU Ill OFF-CAMPUS FORMALIIII Lisa Kuhns-Happy 20th b-day! Love the Youth In Alaa AT KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB
Found: Love letter written by Maggie to 6-A section. Duke's Bistro 
THURS., MARCH 5 9pm TO 38m

Patrick. Found on shuttte . Interesting Thursday night 
NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR TIX ON SALE WED., 314 & THURS., 3-5
reading. II either of you want this lefter. Tom, Alex, Bob, & Mike-l AM SORRY' With special guests: Squash Puppies 
BREAK! IF YOU HAVE ROOM FOR A 4-llpm LaFORTUNE LOBBY
please call 2129. Aak for Kevin Barry. SPRING BREAK DAYTONA! JMW
RIDER PLEASE CALL ANNE AT 2939. 
$1CK:OUPLE

It's good to know that Maggie is finally contact 283-4003 Quotea from 1 Warrior Weekend
FREE FOODII

maturing. Quotes of the night-"Did that drink hit you "I never hit a woman before.''
HOWDY DOODY'S MUSIC BY "PAR 3"11 yet?... Want to go jogging?" "Couk:J you fix the reception?''
On US 33 One block north of the stateline TO DANCE! 
GREEN & GOLD '87 WOMEN'S CLASS ··Put the walk-ins on...
is now accepting applications for part­
RING FOUND TUES. 1 PM IN 2ND FL. "Beer does not belong at college events." 
time waitresses, wa"ers and bartenders. JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Mardi
O'SHAG WOMEN'S BATHROOM. CALL Seniors 'Td like lo congratulae the Notre Dame KATY £1319 TO IDENTIFY INITIALS. Roller Boogie DRUIDS will rule the known universe. It basketball team."
Apply in person between 2 p.m. and 6 Gras Mardi Gras Mardi Gras Vatican Ill 
p.m. Monday through Saturday. Vatican Ill Vatican Ill March 3rd March
TONIGHT! is only a matter of time before they arise "Digger. Digger'" LOST: TAKEN FROM BRIDGET'S WED­United Skates of America from the depths of LaFortune and storm "Where do I sign?" 
3rd March 3rd JUNIORS JUNIORS Need ride to Ohio State on March 6. Will
NESDAY NIGHT-AN AQUA GREEN SKI 8-10 p.m. JUNIORS the campus quads. Join them before ~ "I didn't know I was getting a lobotomy
pay. Call Karen at 284-4393. 
$2.50 e $1.00 skate rental is too late. JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Mardi 
JACKET WITH GLASSES AND BAS­this weekend." 
KETBALL TICKETS INSIDE. ALSO Wheels-a-Fun Spring depends on us . . 
Help! Need Ride to I.U.-Bioom. for~-~ Gras Mardi Gras Vatican Ill March 3rd
TAKEN WAS A GREY JACKET WITH A Congrats Lisa 1. II and Maria
Will share cost. Dan x4332 JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
MAROON AND NAVY STRIPE. I.D., I won't want to cross KEYS, AND BASKETBALL TICKETS BLANK GENERATION SMC Clubhouse you next year
Have friend in Clev who wants to visit
WERE INSIDE THIS COAT. NAMES Tuesday. March 3: 9-12 pm Nasty rock Onlooker I'LL ELABORATE ABOUT IT, Thankfully I'm graduating
~-~? My friend from Clev needs rider 
WERE ON COLLARS OF THE COATS. and roll IF YOU ELABORATE ON IT. BUT WHEN EJI Congrats Again! 
to share$ & drvg. 255-1508
PLEASE CALL KEITH AT 283·1225 TO WHERE AND FOR HOW LONG? Way to shake ill Joe RETURN. IPSO FACTO J.S.CASKOST Glad I met 'cha.
l<leed Ride to Bon Jovi Concert at UIC Me.
Pavillion In Chicago
LOST: Benrus quartz watch. Please call IPSO FACTO POOR COLLEGE STUDENT CAPP MAJORS
Wed. Mar 5. Call Kurt or Frank.
Jeannine at C2646 ff found. To the guy who smashed into the white REMEMBER IPSO FACTO Dodge Colt Saturday evening in B1 and Ride needed to Mid Michigan Area TODAY AT 7:00pm LOST: Gray Tweed Hat lei! in South left a note saying he couldn't afford to (tri cities, Flint. Lansing, or anywhere IN 210 O'SHAG
NEED RIDE TO ROCH.NY FOR BREAK
Dining Hall (Laft,Left) Sunday night of IPSO FACTO pay for the damage: If honesty is worth near) on Fri. March 6. THE MARCH CAPPtOPMA MEETING
MATT 2576
North Carolina Game I'd really like to get anything to you, please dial 1079. Please call Sheila at 284-5181 GREG STRZVZEWSKI OF this hat back II you know where it is or IPSO FACTO E.D.S WILL SPEAK ON
Need riders to Columbia SC for break.
picked it up please bring It to campus Chuck Neidhoeler, you swimming god. CAOCAM SYSTEMS AND
Call 284-5056 after 10pm.
Lost and Found or leave It at 11 09 Grace IPSO FACTO May the luck of the Irish and many grilled TO THE EE FROM 309 Z E.D.S. -Thanks cheese sandwiches be with you this THANKTHOU! IPSO FACTO weekend. P.S. WEAR SOCKS LATELY? INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL I LOST SOMETHING AT BRIDGErS SAT. MARCH 7 
TUESDAY (2124) NIGHT FOR RENT ride needed for 2 to D.C. area for break 7:30PM WASHINGTON HALL I loat 2 jacketa. One waa lnalde the SAB APPLICATIONS £2806 WANTED FREE ADMISSION other. On the outalde waa a jean-jackal The Adonis-like male at Theodore's Sat.
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO
with plaid lining. On the lnalde waa a Deadline extended Ill Frldayl "A cattle prod? No Way!" night wearing black combat boots well­
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389
beige Aald & Stream jackal. If found Pick-up your application TODAY 2nd Furniture Hell. Riding the L, from fitting pants -ripped in all the right places, POMPIDOU PARTY plaaae call Mike x3402. Floor LaFortune Zoroastrian lo Armadillo. and a sweat shirt. Your exquisite AU MOULIN ROUGE
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT 
and the Nuclear War Head. physique, memorable and unequaled THURSDAY NIGHT!
SCHOOL YEAR 255-3684288-0955
LOST: Thin,silver ring after DePaul CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT dancing and ponytail intrigue us. What game. Great sentimental value! If found. are you doing for Spring Break? Call284­
2 BED2
call Debbie at 1311. SPECIAL EVENTS AM I JUST A BRAIN IN A VAT?? 5070 or 284-5072. XXV KLEINFEL TEAS UNITE XXV
BATI-tNEWf'URNISHEOCPTi$48G' RENT OR SUMMER SUBLET CALL 
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT "Mom" and "Dad" the weekend was great! TOMORROW NIGHT
BILL 232-7416 Charles from Nicaragua: Thanks for the the 't<ahlua & Cream with those super­PLEASE participate In the Aah
............................................................... 
IDEAS AND ISSUES note! Please give me a call (I don't know cool cookies was the perfect ending. I Wednaday Liturgy-Mass and Distri­FORSALE ·I your last name.) CP from CL only have one small complaint -Mom. did bution of Aahea-celebrated by Father PERSONALS MOVIES you have to flirt with everyone else's James Burtchaell, C.S.C., In the Log Thank you St. Jude! date? At least you let Dad and I alone ... Chapel at 10:00 P.M.. This Ia for the­
FOR S 
CULTURAL ARTS Love. Paige. ology majors and all other Interested 
SENIORS -1 need your extra graduation membera of the Notre Dame Commu­SERVICES tickets II Do you need extra cash for to Mary Leonard: you've got to lower your nity. 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 
through the U.S. government? Get the Senior Formal or Spring Break? Call me standards to raise your ratings but glass
facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR, 7316 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BUSINESS AUDITOR and we can talkll Tom 1251 windows don't count Sandy BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. I still love you!PUBLICITY Come to lunch ala Mexico!!!!! to Steve Dufour remember revenge is Was it as good lor you?
ATTN: Notre Dame memorabilia collec­tors. NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Give me a ring.
sweet beware love tm, mm, kc NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY
Original center jump circle lrom ACC Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S -Chris main arena basketball floor. Blue back­BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. 
Come join us at the JUNIORS there is a PRE-ST. PATRICK$ 
Center for Social Concerns DAY PARTY on Sat. March 7th at the Kground with gold ND in center. 219-287-just off ol N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 

Thursday, March 5 of Con 31. Live band and D.J. Tickets SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL REGGAE!! II 11:00-1:30 on sale this weeki Get your green out! Tuesday: Reading, David Black and lrini To benefit: Spanidou, 8:00pm. Library Aud Wednes­
1ST SOURCE BANK Tues.. March 3 Theodores 8 p.m. IPSO CILA SUMMER MEXICO SERVICE TO THE YOUNG LADY WHO LEFT THE 
6392. 
day: Reeding, Carolyn Forche. 8:00 pm.

Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Financ­FACTO free Ipso Facto performed with 
HELP!!! SPRING BREAK PROJECT NEWSPAPER CLIPPING ON MY DOOR Library Aud Workshop, lrini Spanidou.
Ing available for all US otatea. KINKS, CLASH, UB40 apona. by SAB SATURDAY NIGHT. GET IN TOUCH am Library Lounge. David
TRAVEL PLANS CHANGED, NEED TO 10:00 and SELL $238 TICKET WITH ME AND I'LL SEE IF I CAN HELP Black, 12:00 pm Library Lounge 
SB TO LA. RETURNING SAN FRAN TO 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. You will see TOM DELUCA on Sunday WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU YOU OUT. M.M. SB. DATES: 3113-:¥.!2 March 8 at Wash. Hall at 8 p.m. Tlx $2 WERE TURNED ON? KT Bowling Ball WILL TAKE BEST OFFER! on aaleln the cellar Wedneaday March "Catholic girls start much to late."-BJ You probably could have guessed your CALL 4644 OR 4643 4. Sponaored by SAB VATICAN Ill -ONE OF THE MOST 'Well Catholic guys fake "'"·Andrea birthday wish would be late. What do you
If you want CIRCUS LUNCH 
POPULAR BANDS ON CAMPUSI!II expect from FAGGITSI Happy 19 GENERATION....
................................................................ to return, DEMAND" at a dining hall near ....BLANK "First, the door must remain open. Hope it is filled with all the love & fun Round Trip Ticket Anywhere In US you. Tues.Nite-SMC Clubhouse Be Ready To AT CHIPS, TUESDAY Second, the lights must be on. I'm not times you bring "· Love. Your Jr. Year Call 2053-Ask for Tim Rock I WE'RE TALKING $2 PITCHERSII running a hotel. "-Sister Joe Roomies 


The Observer 
Tuesday, March 3, 1987 -page 9 

Club Following a 4-3 fall season, the Rugby Club is starting 
Saint Mary's basketball ends 12-8
continuedfrom page 12 
practices this week for their 

"The second team is getting spring season, which will open By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
a lot of playing time and is on March 28 against St. Sports Writer Bonaventure at Stepan Field.
really coming around. Our 
depth is really improving. The Saint Mary's basketball We're the best club team in the With several key players who team, 12-8, concluded it's Midwest. We have to start missed the fall season ready for season last Thursday night 
making the transition to be the spring roundup, the team with a 73-59 loss to IUPU­competitive with the varsity is confident of an improved Indianapolis in NAIA district teams too." record this spring. semifinal action. 
The Belles, however, kept things close thorough the first
******************** half the
against number-one seed of the tournament. 
~ 
~ HAPPY BIRTHDAY! ~ "The game was close in the first half because the girls worked hard at both ends of the court and everything worked
~ 2~ 1~ * 
well," said Head Coach Marvin~ PATRICK BRIGID * Wood. "But IUPUI capitalized ~ (Think you're tough?) (Waller) * on a couple of field goals and a 
foul shot to go up at the half 
~ ~ 38-31." But IUPUI took advantage of
! WE'RE VERY PROUD OF BOTH OF YOU! * 
seven Saint Mary's turnovers to burst into a 46-37lead. It was~ L~F~. ~ an uphill fight for the Belles the rest of the game. 
; MOM, OAO, PETE, & TRUFF ~ Tammye and Julie Radke led 
the offense with 18 points each. Jennifer Harte added eight and
******************** Donna Wolfe contributed six. 
Open Up
•
erica 




to a Friend 
and receive this Road AUas FREE! 
48 pages of full-color maps • Handy glove-comparbnent size 
If you have friends or relatives overseas who'd like to study in the United States, you can be their "passport" if they lack English skills. How? Just give us their names and addresses. We'll give them complete information about our English-language training programs and-in your name-provide a $50 tuition discount certificate. El..S counselors in 52 countries help qualified students enroll in American universities, obtain visas, arrange housing, and help with travel. 
El..S is America's leading intensive English program, with 20 schools throughout the U.S. We've served more than 230,000 students from around the world; over 300 American colleges and universities accept El..S's proficiency recommendation as an alternative to the TOEFL. 

Teaching English to the World for Over 25 Years
ELS Language Centers 
5761 Buckingham Parkway, Culver City, CA 90230 
Please send ElS Intensive English Program information to 
Send my FREE LJ S. Road Atlas• to: (please print) the person below, along with a S50 Tuition Dlacount Certlftcate prest>nted in my name. (please print l 
Name of pro1pectlvt' !tudent 
Namt• 
Adcbt•ss

Addreu 
City Country 
City Slillt• Ztp You may lilt additional names on a .'it.•parate sheet of paper 
•supply lmllttodlo om•,~e•r n;u1w aclclrt"'iS a\KIVt' I Jflf•r t·xpirrs .lunr :\n. 1Wi7. 8450 , 
.tteooundmg was spread evenly among the players with Ann Gallagher and both Radkes recording four each and Harte adding three. 
The Belles finished with a 12­8 record. Wood attributes his team's success to consistency and balance on the team. 
"Two out of the three goals I set in Nov. were reached and I am very pleased with that. We qualified for districts and we had a winning record," said Wood. 
Junior Steph Duke believes that team unity helped them to play well. 
"We got along great both on and off the court, and that made a difference,'' said Duke. "It allowed us to get to know each other a lot better and begin to anticipate the styles of play on the court." 
"The closeness also gave us confidence in each other while we played," agreed freshman Gallagher. "It made the fresh­man get us to the different style of play at this level." 
Although the Radke sisters were often in the spotlight this season, there was never any one player who the Belles depended on. 
"We could always count on the forwards and center to come through if the backcourt was being pressured and vise versa," said Julie Radke. "That gave us the confidence of not having to rely on any par­ticular people. It was also the same way with the sub­~titutes." 
Berth 
continuedfrom page 12 
and then switching places in the the NCAA Midwest Regional the next day. 
'Weak-link' leader Todd Grif­
fee and fellow epeeist Tim 
Vaughan will also be going to 
the NCAA's. Vaughan placed 
third in the Great Lakes on Sat­
urday with a 12-5 record, but 
finished first in the Midwest 
Regionals. Griffee took second 
place in both competitions. 
The women are sending an Utlprecedented three fencers to the NCAA's this year. Besides Hynes, defending national champion Molly Sullivan will go to the championships again, along with freshman Anne Bar­reda. Sullivan placed third in the Great Lakes and second in the Midwest Regionals. 
Hynes, however, stole the show this past weekend. Hynes burned through the competi­tion Saturday, posting a 17-1 record to get the automatic bid to the nationals. Sullivan and Barreda finished a close second and third on Sunday in the Midwest Regionals. 
1Ao1\t 
1\-'i 
1-\Gt\ 

t\~\1\ s o~G 
S~"E. • t; K eep your new
p ....­
... Perm In great shape!
o1.,... 

s C Try Redken Creatlf Styling\~c\..Op€ Aids for form, movement & control! 
Redken Creatif s325 
"Try Me" Pak (a '1010 value) With Perm Purchase 
Includes: High Hold Styling Mousse, Designing Spray, Shaping Lotion and Zero Base Shampoo. 2 oz. each· Plus a Handy Travel Bag. While supply lasts. 
No Appointments -Just Walk In! 
Scottsdale Mall 291-0009 
LaSalle Square 237-9049
Daily 8-8; Sat. 8-6; 
Buyers Market Place 272-4036
Sun. 10-5 
PLYMOUTH 2019 A MichiganAve. 935-9984 NILES River Front Square 684-7210 

Tuesday, March 3, 1987-page 10
The Observer 
Stanford and Sorin to fight it out for the Interhall basketball crown 

THE PICTURE MAN 

the third round of the playoffs a total team effort and twoBy CHRIS PAULISON made its journey to the finals nights of flawless basketball."
Sports Writer 
a bit more complicated. A vic­While Sorin hopes to utilize The men's A League Inter­tory over Dillon for the second its size, Stanford will rely on 
hall basketball championship time catapulted Sorin into the speed and quickness. will be on the line tonight when semifinals, setting up a Stanford and Sorin clash at 6 rematch with the same tena­"We're small (only one at the ACC Pit. cious Morrissey team it fell player is over 6'2") ,"said Stan­
Stanford, 7-0 in regular prey to only a few days prior. ford team captain AI Martin, season play, has continued its "so we're going to push the ball winning streak by scorching In the hard-fought semifinal up and let (point guard Dan) 
through the playoffs without game which decided which Niedermeyer run the fast losing a game. After receiving team would meet Stanford, break whenever possible." a bye in the first round, Stan­Sorin escaped with a 51-45 vic­ford defeated Holy Cross and tory over the Manor. Sorin Martin also credited his Morrissey on the way to capitalized on good shooting by team's success to the fact that tonight's final. Because the senior swingman Steve Beuer­several team members have Studs are undefeated and Sorin lein, the leading scorer in the been playing together for long suffered an earlier playoff loss contest. time. Three of Stanford's in this double-elimination starters were members of last tournament, the Screaming Ot­Sorin, though, is well aware year's Bookstore runners-up, ters have to beat Stanford twice that its toughest task lies the Leonia's Stallions. to receive the crown. 
ahead. 
Although Sorin also finished Playoff action is also heating the regular season with a clean "With Andy Heck and Mark up in the B League. Dillon, like 
record, a loss to Morrisey in Trautman, our big men in the Stanford in the A League, is frontcourt, I would say we have currently undefeated and a size advantage," said Sorin awaiting winner of tomorrow senior Mike Scotty. "However, night's game between Sorin
Men's tennis 
is displaying 
Junior Parents' Weekg.nd 
photos in the Annapolis Room from 12 noon until 5 pm first floor LaFortune 

The Arts & Letters Advisory Council presents 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 
TUESDAY 
4:30-5:30 AMERICAN STUDIES 104 O'Shag 6:00-7:00 ECONOMICS 104 O'Shag 7:00-8:00 SOCIOLOGY 104 O'Shag 
if we're to beat a team of Stan­and Off-Campus for the finals !I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!E!!!!!v!!!!!e!!ry~o!!!!!n!!!!!e!!!!!!!!!W!!!!!!!!!e!!!!!lc!!!!o!!!!!m!!!!!!!!!~!!!t~o!!!!!!!!!A!!tt~e!!n!!!!!d!!!!'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
ford's caliber, it's going to take later this week. I
splits pair over-weekend 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
In men's tennis action this past weekend, Notre Dame came out with an even record losing to Ohio State and defeat­ing Ohio University. These two matches also keep this season's record even at 5-5. 
The action against Ohio State was characterized by close matches and valiant efforts by the Irish. At the number-one singles spot, Tim Carr started with a strong 6-4 win in the first set, but was edged 6-7 in the second and dropped the last set 4-6. Dan Walsh also took his match into three sets, emerg­ing with a 7-6, 3-6, 6-1 win against his Buckeye opponent. 
The doubles teams faired better with wins recorded by Tim Carr and Dave Reiter and Mike Wallace and Sean O'Brian, who recorded a 6-1, 6-2 blowout. Despite the strong wins, the Irish were over­powered by the Buckeyes, losing the match 6-3. 
"We thought we had a chance against them," said Head Coach Tom Fallon, "but they turned out to be too strong for us." 
Against Ohio University, Notre Dame evened out their record this weekend with wins by Brian Kalbas (6-1, 6-2), Dave Reiter (6-2, 6-3) and Dan Walsh, who held off his op­ponent with two sets of 7-5. 
In doubles, the Irish won by forfeit in the number-two match and lost the number three match, 8-6. The first doubles match was cancelled due to a lack of time and the Irish ended up with a 6-3 win over Ohio University. 
Fallon saw several encour­aging signs in the match against Ohio University. 
"Kalbas' win shows that he is on the way to recovering," said Fallon. "Couple this with the improved condition of Tony Cahill, and our team's strength will almost be up to par." 
The Irish will need their strength this weekend when they challenge long-time foe Wisconsin and follow up with hard-hitting Gustavus Adophus. 



d.n, artist 
\ recor \ ~ 

\'\ationa ed with 
perforrn ~ UB40 

Kin\G, C\ash 

ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO" 

ONE HOUR ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTo· • Pictures ready in one hour MOTOPHOTo·· 
UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality SCOTTSDALE MALL 
272-8243 291-3096 
UP TO S3.00 FREE S2!>0 OFF
EXTRA SET OF PRINTS
OFF FILM DEVELOPING PASSPORT PHOTO
With this coupon, receive a FREE Extra Set of With this coupon, receive 53.00 OFF on a 36 Prints. when presenting one roll of color print 
With this coupon, receive 52.00 OFF your 
exposure, 52.00 OFF on a 24 exposure, 51.00 film (C-41 process) for processing and print-passport photo at One Hour Moto Photo. Not 
OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a roll 
of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro-ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limited to valid with any other promotion. One coupon · d · t" t H M t one roll per coupon per customer. Not valid per customer per visit. Expires june 1, 1987.
0 0
cessmg an prrn mg a ne our • 0 with any other promotion. Pho~o. Coupon offers may not be combmed. Expires: june 1, 1987. 
¥f'resjune 1,1987. t:JO'TOPHoTo· T1 t:J070PHaro· T1 MOT"OPHOTO­
L---------·-------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------~ 


1[()~Cl~----------------------~--Tue~sda~y,M~ar~ch3~,100~7-~pag~ell 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
71115 IS WHO<£ 
/3fJT We-PIIJ fef<JONIIL­
W€WORK? 1H€ F€/Xf<Al 
lY t£11/l/IN /U.€6/Il
!?£AllY 7 

/?{/? 1'1{ NO, M JIJST
WHAT IS 5£/.f · TYIN& 
OH. 1/NICW 5Tfi'!K{ I'UIIM 


INV£NT 5Wff£P VP.
rf"? SHOWICE 
fT?
f'l/WT. 

HEY, P/41.1 HOW W/1£ I STIJi)y F<JR 1-JHAT stEMS LIKE FOREVER AND ! 
Srl/..1. GANT /l? A P£1?11­IJ(ArtOf{ 4"1D YOU JIJSf 
BRE£U 01'{ THKrVc.H WlrH IVO TR/)(/!Jl.E ? I 
(~ 
Campus 
3:00 p.m.: Tennis NDM vs. Indiana, Courtney Courts 
3:30 
p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Polyurethane Polymerization," by Christopher Macosko, Univ. of Minnesota, Min­neapolis, 356 Fitzpatrick 

3:30 
-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Nota Bene Wordprocessing, Part 1, 108 computing Center, limit 7, to register call Betty 239-5604 


4: 30 p.m. : Biological Sciences Seminar: "The Functions of Complement in Human Diseases," by Dr. Tom Lint, Rush Medical Schoof, Chicago, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center 
7:30 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series: "Hearts and Minds," 1974, color, 112 minutes, directed by Peter Davis, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
8:00 p.m.: Film and Panel Discusson, "Excerpts from The Africans,' Panelists: Mutombo Mpanya, ND.; Peter Walshe, ND.; and James Bellis, ND. Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium, Sponsors: Kellogg Institute, African Studies Program, Black Studies Program, Student Government, and the Ecumenical Association for Inter­national Understanding: African Re­search and Seminar Project (Ann Arbor, Michigan). · 

1H£ &OVe-RNtf/e"NT 
1/N/7 Cta7E/1 711€ 
Til{ f([y IS 10 Kf£P IN HIND T!IAT TH£/f£ IS A RIG-111 /.JAY ANO A WRoN& 
WAY TO STVI>Y. 
\ 

8:00p.m.: Department of Music Concert, Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Or­chestra featuring J.S. Bach's Magnificat, Sacred Heart Church 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Chicken Breast with Long Grain & Wild Rice served with Mandarin Or­ange Sauce 
Broiled Haddock with Lemon & Dill Sauce 
Spaghetti with Mushroom Sauce 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Pot Pie 

Baked Meatloaf with Gravy 
Vegetable Quiche 
Deli Bar 

Women's Care Center I Pregnancy Help Center 
• 
Fret Prwgnancy Tnts 

• 
F,.. Confldentlel. lndlvldull ... Couple Cou ....lng 

• 
Fret Refernl To Suppon AgencieS 

• 
Confldentlll car. 

• 
Medical Refemll Service 


• Post AboniOn Counseling 
234-0363 
417 N. ST. LOUIS BLVD. 
~~ 
~ 
*24 HOUR HEl.PLIP 
One ...From The Notre .,..,.. Campue 
.. 81/T TH£N f'f?£51/?CNT 
Sf'f?IN&Sff~N 
FII?CP 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Hairless 5 Saguaro and 
mescal 1 0 Accomplished 13 Curved molding 14 Synthetic 
fabric 15 First grade 16 Wash. neighbor 17 Comes close 18 Wrack and­19 R.I. inlet 22 Anything 
high-flown 23 High 24 Drive away 27-de mer 30 Movie 
component 32 Poem form 33 "Aida" and 

"Faust" 36 ERA or RBI 38 Strait between 
Cuba and Haiti 41 Major follower 42 Hanging place 43 Stabler or 
Berry 44 Umpire's cry 46 Before 47 Court's Chris 49 Hunter's 
quarry 51 Pub potation 52 Dangerous 
ocean section? 60 Dies­61 Ray 62 Intense 63 Fades 64 Make happy 65 Otherwise 66 Printer's 
measures 67 Scratched out 68 Being: Lat. 
DOWN 1 Blessing 2 Taj Mahal site 3 Rake's look 4 BA e.g. 5 Cuban dance 6 Neighborhood 7 Highland group 
Far Side Gary Larson 


<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
8 Crags 

9 Map on a map 10 Surprised look 11 Amazon dolphin 12 Gainsay 15 Naive 20 Permit 21 Sailor 24 Baseball's 
Schoolboy­25 Blue-pencils 26 Five-pointed 
figures 27 Oberon or 

Haggard 28 Elan 29 Slight error 31 Beer 34 Felt shoe 35 Thus to Burns 37 Encamp 39 Libels 50 Lawn device 55 Afternoon 40 Upright stone 51 Set one's breaks 
slab sights 56 Estimate 45 Flightless 52 Wait 57 Sets bird 53 Ireland 58 Not so much 48 Buyer 54 Nazlmova 59 Sword 

SAB presents: The Dead Zone Stand By Me Wed., Thurs. Friday, Saturday 7' 9, 11 7' 9, 11 $1.50 $1.50 •Absolutely NO ALCOHOL allowed in EG Auditorium!  SAB presents: REGGAE!! FREE TONIGHT!! Theodore's at 8 pm Ipso easy to party! Ipso facto that tonites your last night before lent!  


-----~------·---------------~---~-~~---------------~-­
Tuesday, March 3, 1987-page 12 
Irish notch 20th victory, ranking as they dump Brooklyn College 

By BOB KEMPER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team abandoned its heart-stopping brand of play Monday evening and coasted to a 76-57 victory over outmanned Brooklyn College. 
It was the seventh-consecutive victory for the Irish and insured them of their fourth 20-win season in as many years. 
Mter Mark Stevenson made a layup off an offensive rebound to put the Irish up 4-2 at 19:26 of the first half, the Irish never relinquished the lead. Senior co-captain Scott Hicks helped the Irish take con­trol early as he drilled four jumpers in the first ten minutes of the game. Notre Dame en­tered the locker room at the half with a 38-29 lead. 
After the intermission, the Irish jumped to a comfortable 16-point lead. Gary Voce con­nected on a rebound goal and converted the three-point play after being fouled. Stevenson scored on a rebound goal and Rivers popped from 17 feet to finish off the 7-0 run. The defense complimented the of­fense as the Irish blocked seven shots and had six steals, most of which resulted in fast breaks. 

Fencers earn berth in NCAA finals 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
Yehuda Kovacs and Janice Hynes both took first place in the foil at the Great Lakes Fen­cing Championship as the men's and women's teams both claimed first place Saturday in Dearborn, Mich. 
The men claimed the first­place trophy for the fourth year in a row by outscoring rival Wayne State, 171-128. Kovacs' win marked the third year in a row that Notre Dame boasted of an individual foil winner. Kovacs won the title last year, 

ND takes 2nd in Alabama tourney 
. By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey 
team ended its regular season 
by taking second place in the 
first annual Alabama­
Huntsville Invitational this 
weekend. 
By splitting a pair of games 
over the weekend, the Irish 
finished the season with an 
overall record of 9-18-1 and are 
headed for the American Col­
legiate Hockey Association 
playoffs this weekend at the 
ACC. 
The Irish trounced little­
known Hawthorne College 7-1 
on Friday night, but dropped 
the final to the host, Huntsville, 
by a score of 3-2 in overtime on 
Saturday. 
Despite taking second in the 
tourney and finishing out the 
regular season with a loss, 
Head Coach Lefty Smith feels 
that his squad put forth one of its best efforts of the year against an improved Huntsville club, and believes that a certain amount of mo­mentum has been gained going into the opening round of playoffs this Friday night. 
"Heck, we've got to be opti­mistic," said Smith. "We didn't lose anybody to an injury, which is new, and we probably played about as well as I feel we can play against Huntsville in the final. A puck bounces over a stick of one of our defen­semen late in the game, and they (Huntsville) get the game­winner off of a breakaway. But there were enough bright spots to make me relatively happy." 
One of those bright spots was the play of center Mike McNeill, who was named the tournament's most valuable player. He was also named to the all-tournament team, along with teammates Pat Foley, Tom Mooney and goalie Lance and teammate Charles Higgs­co's undefeated Irish were so 

Coulthard claimed it in 1985. used to winning that his ab­"I was happy with the win, sence made little difference. 
but I wasn't happy with the way Five other fencers besides I fenced," said Kovacs, who Kovacs qualified for the claimed a 16-1 record this NCAA's this weekend, and weekend. He and Charles Higgs-Coulthard gained an au­
Higgs-Coulthard will represent tomatic berth in the NCAA's by the Irish foilists in the NCAA attending a circuit competition Championships in two weeks at for the World Universitythe ACC. 
Games. 

Head Coach Mike DeCicco Kevin Stoutermire and Geoff did not travel with the teams Rossi will represent the sabre this weekend after suffering a team after finishing fifth and slight concussion last Wednes­second respectively in the 
day while giving sabreman Great Lakes Championships,Kevin Stoutermire a lesson. 
see BERTH, page 9
But even on autopilot, DeCic-Madson. 
"The players that have been consistent all year are playing especially well lately," contin­ued Smith, "and hopefully that kind of leadership will inspire some good play this weekend." 
McNeill shares his coach's feeling that the team appeared to come closer together despite the loss to Huntsville. 
"Yeah, it was a tough loss," said the 6-1, 175-pound junior out of South Bend, "and it was another one of those games where you get into the locker room and say to yourself, 'How did we let another close one get away?' But we checked well and didn't let down after we won the first round. A lot of good things came out of the loss, and hopefully they'll show up, with us on the 'win' side against Lake Forest." 
Lake Forest will be Notre Dame's first-round opponent in the ACHA playoffs 

Irish Head Coach Digger Phelps was delighted to have another 20-victory season un­der his belt, the nth of his 16 years with the Irish. 
"Winning twenty games this season is an incredible feat for several reasons," said Phelps. "First of all, the graduation of Tim Kempton, Jim Dolan, Joe Price, and Kenny Barlow left us pretty bare. Secondly, David (Rivers) was involved in the tragic auto accident. Then we found out Keith Robinson would be ineligible for the season. When Western Ken­tucky beat us in the first game of the season, they showed us we were a long way from being a good basketball team. 
"Mter losing to Western Kentucky, I anticipated that we would only end up with about 16-18 wins. The fact that we are now ranked shows what we have gone through. Mter beating North Carolina, Duke, and DePaul, people believe in us. I think that David is primarily responsible for the success of this season. He didn't know how to die when he should have died." 
The Irish had their biggest lead of the night, 72-51, with 
2:45 left in the contest when the five starters retired to the bench. Chris Nanni and Steve Nicgorski fired up the previ-
Illnesses slow women's track club 
A lack of members prevented the Women's Track Club from participating in 10 of 13 events in last weekend's Notre Dame Invitational and caused the Irish to finish fourth in the four-team meet. 
Theresa Rice won the half-mile with a time of 2:20.06, Julia Merkle placed third in the mile at 5:20.43, Darlene Martin finished third it the shot put with a toss of 29-7 314 and Kathy Tammaro placed fourth in the shot put at 24-11. 
"We had a difficult time bercause many of our people were sick. Strep throat ran rampant through our team, but those people who we did put in did extremely well," said Head Coach Dan Ryan. "Theresa Rice ran against some tough runners from DePaul and Marquette, and she wasn't even challenged after the first lap. A time of 2:20 on our track is like 2:18 on another track. 

Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 

"I was pleased. We've got a young team. DePaul and Marquette have significantly more depth than we do. It's difficult to compete with teams like that, but we may as well jump in the deep end of the pool and get all the experience we can now." 
DePaul won the meet, followed by Marquette, Detroit and Notre Dame. 
For the second straight week, the Men's Volleyball Club had problems with a nationally ranked varsity team. But like last week, the Irish were able to recover from that loss to win the remainder of their matches for the week. 
Notre Dame opened their weekend in Ohio by dropping a match to tenth-ranked Ohio State, 7-15, 3-15, 3-15. 
"We have a problem against varsity teams. We came out ahead, 7-5, and just fell apart," said Club President John Sullivan. "We kind of realized who we were playing and thought that we weren't supposed to be ahead." 
The Irish swept Ohio State-Marion Friday, 15-2, 15-5, 15-4, then defeated Miami (Ohio) on Saturday, 15-9, 13-15, 15-3, 15-7. These wins moved Notre Dame to 14-3 for the season, 14-1 against club teams and 0-2 against varsity teams. 
see CLUB, page 9 
ously subdued crowd as both players registered ·in the scoring column. Nanni con­verted the front end of a one and one, while Nicgorski got credit for a field goal at the final buzzer on a goaltending call. 
"Notre Dame is in the upper echelon of major college Divi­sion I basketball," said Brook­lyn head coach Mark Reiner, "and that is what we are reach­ing for. Notre Dame is playing as well as anyone in the country right now. We schedule games like this to help our program move in the right direction." 
"Although Notre Dame only had about a ten to fifteen point lead for most of the game, they have a quiet, conservative way of winning. We were banking on a letdown, especially after their grueling schedule late." 
Donald Royal led the Notre Dame scoring parade with 20 points to go along with his 10 rebounds. Mark Stevenson added 12 points, and David Rivers and Scott Hicks each chipped in eleven. 
Junior Frank Gregov equaled Royal's scoring production by pouring in 20 points for Kings men. 


