Hazy shade of winter
IACCENT: A Scrooge's tale of woe A 30 percent chance of light rain Tuesday with highs in the mid to upper 40s. A60 percent chance of rain Tuesday night
IVIEWPOINT: Myths about hunger problem 
with lows in the upper 30s. 

VOL. XXI, NO. 64 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Gorbachev: 1st 
Gunshots heard in

time ever in U.S. 
Associated Press vi ted Gorbachev to Washington 
air crash 
to "discuss ways in which we WASHINGTON -Soviet can reduce tensions between 
Associated Pressleader Mikhail Gorbachev, set­our two countries. He and I will ting foot for the first time on meet in hopes of promoting HARMONY, C~U. AAmerican soil Monday, said he peace for our peoples and all Pacific Southwest Airlineshopes to hear "new words" the people of the earth." 
commuter jet carrying 44about prospects for cutting He said the star of peace atop people crashed Monday afterlong-range strategic weapons the tree would remain lit day crew members reportedat his White House summit this and night during the summit to hearing gunfire inside theweek with President Reagan. "remind us why we've gath­plane, and all aboard wereThe Reagan administration ered and what we seek." 
feared dead, federal officialsrolled out the red carpet for Asked by reporters if he had said.
Gorbachev and his wife Raisa, any new words for Gorbachev, The four-engine jet en routeand in a welcoming statement Reagan said, "He'll hear them from Los Angeles to San Fran­the Soviet leader wished in the morning." Asked whe­cisco went down on a ranch''peace and well being to all ther he wanted a strategic­near here at 4:14 p.m., the
Americans.'' arms agreement as a Federal Aviation Administra­"At the center of our discus­Christmas present, Reagan tion said.
sions with the president of the laughed and said, "I'll take "There's airplane parts andUnited States will be the pivotal what we're going to have." 
body parts and luggage all over questions of Soviet-American The White House summit a 15-mile area. I don't knowrelations, questions of reducing opens Tuesday, highlighted at how anyone could have sur­strategic offensive arms," 1:45 p.m. EST by the signing vived," said cattleman Bill
Gorbachev said. of a treaty to eliminate Hartzell, on whose property the 
Reagan, presiding later at intermediate-range nuclear ' I . 
jet crashed.
the lighting of the national 
see SUMMIT, page 3 There were 39 passengersChristmas tree, said he had in-
and a crew of five aboard the flight, said PSA spokesman
SMC Boards announce 
Jeremy James. FAA spokesman Fred Far­rar in Washington, D.C., said

'87 Christmas events 
it was believed no one survived 
By MIMI TUOHY Board and the Board of Gover­the crash. He identified the 
Staff Reporter nance Monday night. plane as PSA flight 1771, a four­
Hashagen commended • engine BAe-146 jet. 
The largest Saint Mary's Traditional Events Commis-"Just west of Paso Robles, 
Christmas Bazaar ever began sioner Mary Carol Cahill for co-the crew reported gunshots in 
Monday in LeMans Hall. This ordinating the bazaar, which • \ , the back of the plane," said · 
year the annual event features will be open from 9 a.m. to 5 Victims or partners in crime? The Observer/Brian Mast Drucella Andersen, a spokes­
more than 80 booths, Smith p.m. every day this week. woman for the National Trans­
"There are some really nice Seniors Dan Cahill and Terry Anne Wallmeyer find themselves under
Hashagen, vice president of portation Safety Board. "The
obligation to commit a little public display of affection. They are victims
student activities, told a joint plane crashed near 
meeting of the Programming see EVENTS, page 4 of the Christmas tradition of kissing when caught under a mistletoe. Templeton." 

Senate passes amendment on use of special fund 

By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
The Student Senate passed an amendment to the fiscal policy that establishes definite procedures and usage criteria for the Contingency Fund Mon­day night. 
Although the Contingency Fund has existed in the past, it has never been properly des­cribed in the bylaws. The amendment, proposed by Stu­dent Senator Brian Holst and Student Body Treasurer Chris Grandpre, states that appro­priations from the "Contin­gency Fund are designated for the purpose of financing unique and extraordinary opportuni­ties which have been previ­ously unbudgeted and un­planned for." 

In other business, Sopho­more Class President Dave Kinkopf said Daniel Winicur, dean of administration and registrar, presented the pro­posal of having plus grades as well as minus grades to the academic council last week. 
"Most (members) did not ex­press an opinion," Kinkopf said, adding that members who spoke did not seem to have a strong stance on it one way or the other. 
"Certainly the the 80 percent student support was well­expressed and well-received at the meeting," Kinkopf said, re­ferring to the overwhelming student support for a change in the grading system that was expressed in the recent student survey. 

The issue will go back before the Academic Council in the spring for a vote, said Kinkopf. 
In other news, the Senate dis­cussed the payment of the $1,400 in damages incurred 
see SENATE, page 4 


Pop star Madonna to divorce 
Details of the prenuptial were married Aug. 16, 1985 inAssociated Press agreement were not disclosed a lavish, invitation-only cere­
SANTA MONICA, Calif. -by Inglis, who referred all calls mony on a Malibu bluff while Rock diva Madonna ended about the divorce petition to news helicopters swarmed months of speculation and filed Madonna publicist Liz Rosen­overhead. for divorce from actor Sean berg in New York. She did not 
Penn after 27 months of mar­return phone calls Monday. The couple starred in the box riage, court records disclosed The divorce petition cites ir­office bomb "Shanghai Monday. reconcilable differences. Surprise." In her Superior Court petition Pugnacious Penn, star of filed late Friday by attorney Attorney Howard Weitzman, "Fast Times at Ridgemont 
High," "Bad Boys," "At Close 

Michael Inglis, Madonna asked who represents Penn, was in for restoration of her maiden court Monday and unavailable Range" and "The Falcon and name -Madonna Ciccone -and to confirm whether the actor 
the Snowman," has been in­division of the couple's prop­was served with the divorce volved in a series of legal 
wrangles involving fisticuffserty according to a prenuptial papers. 

agreement. Madonna, 29, and Penn, 27, with photographers and others. 
Activists surround D.C. as summit set to start 
Associated Press are over there," said Lt. Jef­
frey Davis of the National 
WASHINGTON -The first Park Police, surveying the Washington-based summit potpourri of protests as he between President Reagan tried to keep the groups in and Soviet leader Mikhail their assigned corners of the Gorbachev served as a mag­one-block-square Lafayette net Monday for demonstra­Park across the street from tions on subjects ranging the White House. from AIDS to Afghanistan to The colorful swirl of ac­arms control. tivism -with a few hundred 
''The fundamentalists are people flowing through the here, the Ukrainians are park by midday -included over there by the black bal­
see PEOPLE, page 4 
loons, the cure-AIDS people 

r---------------------------------------~ --~ 
Tuesday, December 8, 1987
page 2 The Observer 



In Brief 
An accident on Juniper Road Monday was reported by students who said they. saw an ambulance arriving to aid a person apparently hit by a car there. Students said the victim appeared to be a pedestrian. It was not known whether the victim is a student. Notre Dame Security declined to release information Monday night regarding the incident, but said it will issue a statement today. -The Observer 
An IU prof will meet Gorbachev Wednesday at the State Department. The Indiana University professor, Soviet history scholar Robert Byrnes, will be among nearly 200 scientists, economists and researchers who will gather to honor the visiting Soviet leader. Byrnes and his wife, Eleanor, say they weren't expecting an invitation to the luncheon, which will come during a break in Gorbachev's summit talks with President Reagan. Byrnes and his wife both speak fluent Russian and hope to get to chat briefly with Gorbachev. -Associated Press 
Reducing the federal budget by .$30 billi~n in a compromise plan represents "a substantial step m t~~ right direction," Rep. Jim Jontz said Monday. The def1c1t compromise reached in late November by House, Senate and Reagan administration representatives calls for $9 billion in new revenues during the 1988 fiscal year, $5 billion in defense spending cuts, a $4 billion reduction in entitlement programs such as Medicare and other savings from spending cuts and sale of some government assets, Jontz said. "I would say it is as painless as possible for the average citizen," said Jontz. "There shouldn't be anyone who is nicked too hard." -Associated Press 
Two bulls attacked and killed a Greene County man at his dairy farm in Bloomfield, Ind., authorities said. County police said Marvin Quimby, 50, apparently was trying to break up a fight between two bulls when they attacked him Sunday morning. Quimby's body was found by his father. Quimby was pronounced dead at the scene. 
-Associated Press 


Of Interest 
Broomball Tournament Sign-ups will be held Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday in the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune. Each team must have seven players. The tournament will be held during WINTERFEST at the beginning of next semester. -The Observer 
A celebration of the expected signing of the nuclear weapons treaty will by held at the County-City Building in South Bend at 1:30 p.m. -The Observer 
Sophomore ski trip sign-ups will be held this week from 2 to 4 p.m. each day in the sophomore class office. The trip will be to Boyne Mountain on the weekend of Jan. 22 to 24. -The Observer 
The Juggler's fall issue will be delayed until January 1988 due to printing complications. -The Observer 
The Feast of the Immaculate Conception, a Holy Day of Obligation, will be celebrated at 11:30 a.m. by Father John Lahey, and at 5 p.m. by Father Thomas Gaughan. Music will be by the Notre Dame Glee Club. -The Observer 
Applications for An Tostal '88 executive committee are available from the SUB secretary, 2nd floor LaFor­tune. All applications must be submitted by Wednesday. For more information, call David at 277-9237. -The Ob­
server 


Design Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout Richell Aschenbrenner Design Assistant .................... Jodi Topel Accent Copy Editor .............. Lisa Young Typesetters ............... Becky Gunderman Accent Layout .... Heather Hypes ........................................... Daniel Cahill Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenn Conlon News Editor.. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Regis Coccia ............................................ Lynn Ewing Copy Editor ...................... Matt Crowley ND Day Editors ..................... David Lee Sports Copy Editor......... Rick Rietbrock SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Rader Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Chris Donnelly Photographer....................... Brian Mast 
'he 011e1ner (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. ne 0'-"er is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writiq 'he Oillln'er, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IDdiana 46SS6. 
ne Oillln'er is a member of ne ..u.oclaled Prell. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
The unsung verses: The cheer's cheer 
In the midst of . all of this hoopla for Tim Brown's Heisman heist and Notre Dame's win­ning of the Cotton Bowl bid, I must confess to having committed sacrilege over the past several years. 
You see, I was one of those blackguards who hummed the songs at the football games. I was pretty good with the key lines like "Notre Dame, our Mother" and "Love thee Notre Daaaame!" I just had trouble with everything in between. 
I suppose I shouldn't admit this, but to be frank, I pretty much languished in apathy during the Faust years. But then two years ago the Irish's prospects started looking better. So, being the spineless conformist I am, I decided to jump on the bandwagon and memorize all those immortal University anthems. So now whenever I attend a game, I can shake down the thunder as if I had really been supporting the team all along. 
But now after having repeated those lines as much as the Nicene creed, I must confess to a certain amount of bad faith: when I discovered the words of all those famous songs, I didn't rejoice or break into tongues. On the contrary, I suffered an awful let-down. 
This is it? I asked myself. This is what everybody gets so excited about? 
So now I ask you, has anyone ever paid at­tention to the words we sing at all those games and pep rallies? I mean seriously? 
First, take an obvious example. In the first line of the Notre Dame Victory March we have "Rally sons of Notre Dame" followed by the chorus of "While her loyal sons go marching onward to victory." 
My gosh! Sexism at Notre Dame! 
I am surprised that Ann Pettifer, Common Sense, Playgirl and the entire NOW haven't burned Knute Rockne in effigy for this one. ("It's a dastardly male conspiracy. And I bet the Pope is at the bottom of it, too!") 
Or just think about the first three lines of the Victory March's chorus: Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes, cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high. .. 
Now before I confess my misgivings about these particular lines, let me make clear that in my mind the Notre Dame marching band is still the best in the country (though USC one isn't that bad). In fact, the very moment I heard the Fight Song being played, I knew I was at the right university, primarily because it sounds so militaristic. 
Yet didn't the writer of the above lines think we'd get the point once he wrote "cheer" the second time? And another thing: isn't it kind of superfluous to be commanding ourselves to cheer when technically we already are? 
Also, from the point of view of plain English 
Chris Julka 

Assistant News Editor 

and logic there are other troubling areas. Ad­mittedly, I am not an English major but it seems to me that something is clearly wrong about the last four lines of "Notre Dame, Our Mother." 
Aside from the obviously exaggerated eternal nature of the pledge being made at a football game, is it really possible for our hearts to do anything but pump or maybe burn once in a while? 
Now I realize there is such a thing as poetic license. But wouldn't it be a lot clearer to say, "And we students forever" or "And we alumni forever..." or something to that effect? 
O.K. I'm not a poet. 
But if you aren't already totally outraged by these scandals, consider the opening line of the selfsame song. 
I realize we have a lot of engineering, science and business majors here, but do we really have to translate the French? Insofar as we are to believe that the Virgin Mary is metaphorically or spiritually our mother, isn't this idea already contained in the expression "Our Lady?" 
Someone might object that the song is not really rhapsodizing about the Virgin Mary at all, but rather the University. But then, what's this business about her being "proudly in the heavens." That would be outright blasphemy, wouldn't it? 
Now after all this, didn't you like it better when I just hummed? 

BUY CLASSIFIEDS 
$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: A VALUABLE PROGRAM. A PERSONAL CHALLENGE. 
The NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship that's worth as much as $25,000. And it offers you the opponunity to become a Navy officer and stan asuccessful career. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost oftextbooks, instructional fees, and provides an allowance of$100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years ofcollege. Upon graduation and oompletion of requirements, you'll become part ofthe Navy adventure as aoonunissioned Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging 
program. For more information call Lieutenant Commander Tim Wieand at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 

NAVY)flOFFICER. 
LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 
Tuesday, December 8, 1987 
Indiana's Moscow holds own version of 'glasnost' 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW, Ind. -Although they live halfway around the world from the Kremlin, the 75 or so residents of Moscow, Ind., have their own brand of glas­nost, the Soviet Union's new openness. 
The folks in this Rush County hamlet are proud of their town, especially this week as Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev meets with President Reagan. 
On a gray December mor­ning, Moscow looks like the set­ting of a black and white movie. The only color in the scene comes from the U.S. flag on the post in front of Ruthie Spauld­ing's house and the bright red Coca-Cola machine in front of Earl Price's defunct store. 

"That's the last business in town -that little Coke ma­chine," Price said. 
In the spirit of glasnost, however, Price sets the record straight. There's a Pepsi ma­chine outside Jim Lawless' house. 
"We've got an old saying here in Moscow1" said Price. "Moscow isn't the end of the world, but you can sure see it from here." 
The castle and Knights

r.--..l. 
· 
I' •. ,.. 
• 
Minutes from Campus 

• 
Discounts to Students & Faculty • $4.00offeHalrcutandHelrDalgn 

• 
$5.00 off a Pt'.rm or Color Savlct'. 


You Have Chosen a First Class 
campus, wny Not Choose a First Class Hair Salon with a Touch of Royalty WE SPECIALIZE IN STYLES AND FADS 
• Hair • Skin • Nalls • Tanning 

272-0312 


The Observer I Brian Mast 
segment of his act. Conrad will be holding seminars 
today and tomorrow. 





U.S. summit readies for treaty 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The brewing fight on Capitol Hill and across the country over the medium-range missile ban that President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev are set to sign may be only a warm­


FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11 8:00PM STEPAN CENTER FREE ADMISSION -NO TICKET NECESSARY 
Co-sponsored by the Notre Dame Glee Club & Student Union Board 
a treaty to slash long-range missile arsenals. 
Many of the same issues are in both accords, but magnified in a Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) because it in­volves more radical changes in the American nuclear arsenal. 
The weapons that would be scrapped by START are much more important to the defense of the United States and allies in Western Europe and Asia than the rockets due for dis­mantling under an Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) pact. 
Eliminating all U.S. 


Summit 
continued from page 1 
weapons (INF), the first-ever agreement calling for the destruction of an entire cate­gory of atomic arms. 
The shorter range weapons do not pose a threat to the United States, but are targeted on Soviet and Western Europe. Strategic arms can be fired across the world and are con­sidered the most serious nu­clear threat. 
A strategic arms pact eluded Reagan and Gorbachev at their summit in Iceland last year be­

"WHATEVER THE MIND CAN CONCEIVE, THE BODY CAN ACHIEVE" 
seminars by GARY CONRAD to teach you the secrets of SELF-HYPNOSIS 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8 
4pm GENERAL SELF­HYPNOSIS 
6pm LOSE WEIGHT ­DON'T FEEL HUNGRY 
lOpm ACE THAT EXAM­DOING BETTER ON FINALS 

WEDNESDAY,DECEMBER9 4pm GENERAL SELF­HYPNOSIS 
6pm LOSE WEIGHT ­DON'T FEEL HUNGRY 
8pm ACE THAT EXAM­DO BETTER ON FINALS 
NOTRE DAME ROOM-2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE SPONSORED BY SUB 
medium-range rockets will still leave 4,000 U.S. nuclear weap­ons in Europe. But a 50 percent reduction in strategic arms ­the goal set by Reagan and Gorbachev -would make a vastly more substantial cut in American armaments. 
Hard choices would have to be made by the Pentagon on which weapons to keep and which to scrap in order to stay under prescribed ceilings. 
By contrast, the impact of the missile ban Reagan and Gor­bachev are signing Tuesday af­ternoon is slight. 

broken "nuclear umbrellas," and park regulars like the wo­man who screamed stream-of­consciousness style as waved a sign reading "Legalize Sanity." 
The Observer I Brian Mast 

A man on a bicycle held a 
ning up writers to help put pressure on countries 
hand-drawn sign reading:
violating human rights. 
"December 8th. John Lennon lived and died for this day." 
ministration would like to see 
students take responsibility for students," Kinkopf said. 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
The idea of eliminating during the food fight earlier in desserts, "from what I can see, the semester. Laurie Bink, stu­is the most viable solution and dent body vice president, said the one that will make the stu­she would bring a proposal to dents the least unhappy," Bink the senate next week calling for said. 

MAPLE LANE
a resolution to recommend In other business, the senate some portion of a meal, such discussed altering the current 
APARTMENTS as dessert, be eliminated to method of reviewing the board cover the damages. of trustees reports. 
Private suburban settings
Bink said John Goldrick, as­Pat Cooke, student body 
just 10 minutes from
sociate vice president for president, and Holst both said 
campus.
residence life, "said that a generally poor initiative has 
You don't have to be Irish
whatever (the senate does) is been taken on the part of stu­fine as long as we come up with dent leaders in the past to con­
DAILY DRINK SPECIALS to enjoy life at Maple Lane a resolution." "I think the ad-tribute to the board reports. 
Apartments. Our beautiful setting Is rernilililcent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors,
MONDAY 
employees, graduate stu­75 c DRAFT dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 







DoJ.OUrself 
Featuring: Michelob & Miller Lite
aflavor. 
In addition Wt. otrer you a special discount. 

TUESDAY 
MARGARITA VILLE $1.00 off all Jumbo Margaritas only $1.95 75 c shots of Cuervo Gold 
•
4 apartments per

A Jumbo & a shot for only $2.50 
buil«!ing, on 65 
spacious acres


WEDNESDAY 
HOT SHOT SCHNAPPS NIGHT 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
• 

75 c shots of "Hot Tropical Schnapps" 
Community Activities $}.50 Sunburns & Suntans 
THURSDAY Washer & Dryer in 
• 
each apartment 

CORONA NIGHT cross the Border for only $1.25 a bottle 
Intercom entrances 
•


FRIDAY 
Molson & Moosehead Reasonably priced 
• 

2 Canadian favorites for only $1.00 a bottle gas/heat 

SATURDAY
Yogi's Yogurt 
Earthtone Interiors 
•

right across from Martin's-
Our Top Shelf Golden Margarita
2 minutes from Notre Dame Offer Expires 1223-87 
made with Cuervo Gold & Cointreau 
Country Kitchens 
•

$1.00 off -Only $2.95
Bring this ad in for:

I ------------------------
I 
•call for details

SONDAY
I A Free I 
I I 
Pitchers of our famous Margaritas 277-3731
I I 

I sample I 
for only $4.90 
models and clubhouse 

I I 
Yogi's Yogurt 
open daily I •••••••••••••••• •••••••••• 
I I 
page 4 The Observer 

Events 
continued from page 1 
things being sold this year. I hope that everyone will take the time to stop by and see what is available," Hashagen said. 
In other business, Halane Young, student activities board commissioner, said the "Famous Vacationers" drawing was held last Friday night at the concert in Haggar College Center. 
The five winners, Julie Wag­ner; Anne Parks; Ann Eckoff; Patricia Boyle and Meg Carney will each be able to take three friends on a ski trip to Michigan 
Writing a wrong 
Junior Theresa DeGerolamo gets involved in a worthy cause by looking into Amnesty International's letter­writing program. Coordinator Celeste Kolton was sig-

People 
continued from page 1 
props such as mock coffins, 

Tuesday, December 8, 1987 
in February, according to Young. 

A Christmas movie night featuring "It's a Wonderful Life" and "A Christmas Carol" is scheduled for this Wednes­day in Haggar College Center, said Janel Hamann, student ac­tivities board commissioner. Hamann also said that the SAB is currently working on scheduling joint activities with Notre Dame next semester. 
Eileen Hetterich, student body president, announced that the Student Academic Council will be sending a revised mis­sion statement to random stu­dents next semester. Each statement will include an evaluation to be returned to the SAC. 
Ed Wagner of Delaware ex­plained that the anniversary of Lennon's death in 1980 coin­cides with the U.S.-Soviet treaty signing, and peace was what Lennon "was all about." 


Viewpoint
Tuesday, December 8, 1987 page 5 
Myths about hunger hinder true progress 
One of the great things about eating that is fine with me. I merely aim to MYTH: The United States does not the ability to help stop hunger, without in a college dining hall is that your par-prevent Notre Dame from graduating have a hunger problem. having to make it a lifelong career. ents have no say in what you put in students who think we can not end FACT: Americ~~s die of malnutri-Here at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, your stomach. Think of all the times hunger. It is time to expose the myths. tion, too. Hunger as an issue in the U.S. opportunities abound to address the your father forced you to swallow the MYTH: Everyone knows that there grows greater every day. America's problem. Groups like Notre Dame's sweet potatoes he put on your plate. is not enough food to feed the world. "new poor," the white male un-and St. Mary's World Hunger Coali­Remember when Mom used to say, FACT: We have enough food. Ex-employed, experience hunger they tions, Overseas Development Network, "Don't waste your food because there perts have shown that we can harness never dreamed they would have to face. the Shelter for the Homeless, as well are children starving in Africa"? You the resources of this planet to supply America's "old poor" fall deeper into as dorm groups that serve at soup always wanted to respond, "Good, then every human being with the proper poverty. kitchens all address the issues of can we send them my chicken liver diet. In addition, we can continue doing MYTH: Contributing to charitable poverty and hunger. Committees for spinach casserole?" That kind of an-this for future generations. hunger organizations does no good, be-The Great Hunger Cleanup, a commu­swer seemed appropriate because, at MYTH: The population explosion has cause the money goes to food hand-outs nity improvementAlunger relief event age seven, the answer seemed simple-caused people to go hungry. that only treat the results of hunger, which takes place next spring, are -give hungry people something to eat, FACT: Hunger contributes to the not the causes, or to corrupt govern-forming now and still need members. preferably the aforementioned population problem. Families do not go ment officials. If you cannot devote enough time to casserole. As you've grown older, hungry because they have too many FACT: One cannot generalize about committee work, this one day project you've "learned" that the causes of children. They have too many children, the work of all hunger agencies. AI-is a good way to make a small, hunger lie so deeply embedded in soci-because 18 children around the world though these two objections have some meaningful effort. As a college student ety that no one can solve the problem. die a minute of starvation. Poor parents truth to them, it is not fair to categorize working with Notre DameSt. Mary's Well, it just goes to show how inade-need children to bring income in the all hunger organizations in this fashion. Great Hunger Cleanup, you can partic­quate a college education can be. The family. When parents can feel secure A large number of the groups working ipate in an activity that will, in con­proelem has solutions. that their first few children have to end hunger concentrate not on the junction with a host of similar small enough nutrition to live past the age of hand-outs, but on development projects efforts, contribute to the drive to end five, that will contribute to a decline in that will help produce food or raise hunger. More importantly, the Cleanup 
Elizabeth Durkin 
childbirth. families out of poverty. In addition, makes a statement that NDSMC stu-
MYTH: We do not have the knowl-many groups have no connections with dents do see beyond the confines of their 
guest column edge to solve the hunger problem. the governments of the countries they campus to the suffering in their com-
FACT: We know how to end hunger. help; they work only through the munity and their world. 
The resorces, know-how, technology, people. 
This column does not intend to lecture and money are available to end hunger MYTH: One person cannot do anyth­about the ethics involved in feeding as a basic issue. We merely need to ing to help the hungry. Elizabeth Durkin is a senior communi­your neighbor. If you choose to believe rearrange the use of these tools, in or-FACT: Yes, one person can help end cations major and chairperson of the that the poor should help themselves, der to stop people from dying. hunger. Each and every one of us has Great Hunger Cleanup. 
P.O. Box Q 
Code burdens honest student 
Dear Editor: 
I am very sorry to learn that Notre Dame is about to adopt an honor sys­tem. Such a system, if it works, may well provide a more efficient mecha­nism for suppressing cheating, but it imposes an unwarranted burden on the honest student who becomes aware of a cheating incident. 
Advocates of honor systems argue that all adults bear a responsibility to help police their environment, but they forget that we have built into our adult world a number of protections of the individual conscience that are not typ­ically built into an honor system. For instance, we never require spouses to testify against each other, we never ex­act as great a penalty for failure to report a crime as for the crime itself, we have no penalty at all for failing to report a minor crime, and our prosecutors and juries tend to be ex­tremely lenient on those who fail to report major crimes because of ex­tenuating circumstances like kinship to the criminal or sympathy for some per­sonal hardship suffered by the crimin­al. None of these features is built into the typical honor system. Adult analogs of honor systems are found primarily in totalitarian regimes where the state, intending the system to be coercive (while invoking the same naively idealistic argurments which one hears in support of academic honor systems), augments its police capabilities with se­vere penalties for not reporting offen­ses. 
My misgivings become particularly grave when the honor system is to be applied to Notre Dame where such a large fraction of the students are ex­tremely conscientious. For a slightly scrupulous student who has been raised in the Catholic tradition of judging one's self harshly and bending over backward to avoid unfairly judging one's neighbor, the burden of reporting a neighbor who is known to have other troubles will be too great. How will this new system cope with an idealistic young person who fails to report an in­fraction for reasons of conscience? 
My final concern is less concrete but may be no less real. For a reasonably large number of students I have seen visit Notre Dame recently (and for many ancient alumni like myself), the most unusual feature of Notre Dame life is the exceptionally good treatment which the students accord one another. 
This atmosphere of concern for one an­other is a strong selling point for prospective students who might other­wise choose other prestige universities, and the memory of such an atmosphere inspires the intense alumni loyalty which Notre Dame enjoys. The honor system is almost guaranteed to change the sociology of the residence halls, and as such may erode the University's greatest strength. 
James V. Maher Professor of Physics University of Pittsburgh Nov. 30, 1987 

Quote of the Day 
"Every day Is a holiday... and night time's a party too." 
Tupelo Chain Sex 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief..... . . . .......... Kevin Becker Business Manager . . . . .................... Brian Mu"ay Managing Edilor ... ......... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor ... . ....... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager. . ....... Melinda Chapleau News Edilor ..... . ..................... Jim Riley Production Manager. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... .............. Chris Murphy Projects Manager .................... Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor... . . . . .. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .......................... Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor ...... . . . ... Michael Naughton Controller... . ............ Tracy Schindele
the administration of either institution. The News is repo~ as accurately and objectively as Saint Mary's Editor ... . Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager... . . . .... Laura Stantonposs1bte. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Editor .... . ......... Jim Carroll
Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners, is encouraged. 
---~ -----~--~~------~--~-~-­
Accent
page 6 Tuesday, December 8, 1987 
Christmas stinks 
"I hate Christmas. It reeks." 
Saying this usually elicits cries of "Scrooge!" or "Grinchl" but I say It anyway. I mean It too. Christmas ranks just below hernia surgery on my fun­things-to-do-list. It wasn't al­ways this way though. No, 
KrisMurphy 
Altered 
Christmas used to be my favor­ite day of the year. When I was a kid I marked the twenty-fifth of each month on my calendar and counted the months 'til Christmas day every time I reached that date. 
Twelve Year Old Me: "But Mom, that box is kind of small. How did you fit the whole tree in there?" 
Mom: "I've raised an idiot for a son. Why me God? It's a fake tree you twit!" 
caused her to drop-kick our cat across the living room where it landed on my Uncle Kurt who was drunk out of his mind on Mom's special brandy and rum Christmas punch. We never did get the blood off the carpet. 
Now that I think of it maybe that's when Christmas turned into a bad scene for me. The sight of our family cat chewing on poor old drunk Uncle Kurt's face was just too much for my eleven-year-old mind to take. 
Grandma took me in the kitchen and tried to comfort me with hot tea, and it was working until Uncle Kurt's wife Sasha ran through the kitchen chasing the cat with the baseball bat she'd given me for ling about how he's Santa Claus and how his prices are unbeatable and how you should buy now because, "We're crazy here at Rex appli­ances. Crazy! When it's gone it's all gone! No payments till next year! Bring the kids to meet Rudolph!" 
After the 'Christmas in July' Sale things are relatively quiet again until Halloween when all hell breaks loose. Christmas trees, tinsel, ornaments, giant plastic Santas, Christmas carols in elevators and exhortations to Buy! Buy! Buy! rule the next two months. One of the things that really sickens me is the constant stream of economists and major corporation heads predicting a good or bad Christmas solely on the terms of how much American consu­mers cough up for gifts. Shouldn't Christmas mean something more to most of us than money, money, money? As Woody Allen once said "If Jesus ever came back and saw what was being done in his name he'd never stop throwing up." 
As far as the commercializa­tion of Christmas I think I saw the pinnacle of it when I was in Chicago this weekend. On most of the train stops there was a poster of a relatively hot looking woman in white fur and red lipstick. The poster said "Special Christmas Edition 
of Penthouse now on sale." 
Now be assured that I'm no 
enemy of a little tasteful 
erotica, but the first time 
someone says to me, "Have a 
Penthouse Christmas!" I'm 
going to deck them. 
Oh, and another thing! If I hear "Grandma Got Run Over By A Reindeer" one more time, just one more time, I'm going to join the ranks of all those folks who get lonely and de­pressed at Christmas time and kill themselves. I'll grab ahold of a string of Chrismas lights and jump in a bowl of hot was­sail. 
It may seem that I'm being to harsh but if you'd seen your uncle mauled by a Christmas­crazed cat and if you'd heard that song about the hit-and-run reindeer .35, 000 times you'd be sick of the whole Chritmas thing too. I'm sure there's someone, somewhere keeping the true spirit of Christmas (I think it exists but I don't have the vaguest idea of what it is by now) but I haven't met them yet. No, this year I'm not sen­ding any gifts, I'm not trim­ming any trees and I'm not going to check out this month's Penthouse. Instead I'm going to watch the Grinch over and over and feed the cat pine needles. 

What ND 
women wear 
DANE GALDEN 
accent writer 

IIIT ith everyone on campus
IVV taking surveys about sex, drugs and the grading system, some industrious Notre Dame students have undertaken a survey of equal importance and greater interest: how do Notre Dame women dress? A survey of 60 women attempted to rate women's attitudes towards fas­hion by asking a series of questions and rating the responses on a scale of one to three to determine a fashion coefficient. 
And the survey says --1.89. With a score of one represent­ing a very conservative attitude towards fashion and acces­sories, a score of two being more progressive and a score of three indicating a flashy ap­proach to dress, the women of ND seem to be progressive in their outlook with a slight bend towards conservatism. 
The women were asked ques­tions ranging from an outright evaluation of their own fashion preference, to more subtle questions such as how often they wore various kinds of jewelry and how much money they spent in a typical month on jewelry and other fashion accessories. 
Only 46.7 percent of those surveyed actually defined them­selves as conservative, earning one point on the scale for this response. An overwhelming 
92.8 percent, on the other hand, responded that they are open to wearing new fashions and accessories. This response earned them three points on the scale. 
Other questions revealed that 
21.4 percent often wear blouses alone (a reponse ear­ning one point), while 67.2 percent said that they do sometimes (earning two points.) As for purchasing new fashion accessories on im­pulse, .32.8 percent said that they spend between five and eight dollars per month doing this (two points) and 49.2 per­cent said that they spend nine dollars or more (three points.) 
This survey seems to affirm what has been said about Notre Dame women for quite some time --they do tend to dress somewhat conservatively. But a further analysis shows that they are more open-minded in their attitudes than they are often given 'credit' for. The progres­sive attitude that pervades the campus in music has filtered into the attitudes of women's fashion. Take note of the trends and get in line. 

(My mother comes in the door of our house with a large, ugly, brown cardboard box.) 
Twelve Year Old Me: "Hey Mom, what's in the large, ugly, brown cardboard box?" 
Mom: "It's our new Christmas tree son." 


When it finally came my whole family went to midnight Mass together and then we went home to open presents all night. Everyone was In a good mood, the tree smelled great and all those cool Christmas specials like "Frosty Gets Frostbite" and "Bob Hope's Christmas In Cleveland" were on television. 
Somewhere between then and now something went wrong, and I think I know when It started. That was when my family got a fake Christmas tree. I remember the day It happened: 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Twelve Year Old Me: (shocked, revolted, crestfallen, wounded) "A fake tree! Aaag­ghhl How could you do this to me right In the middle of pu­berty? Why? Why'd you do it Mnm?" 
Mom: "I did It because last year the cat ate some of the pine needles and threw up in your Grandma's lap. Remem­ber?'' 
I did remember. Grandma had a bad temper, and she was also very athletic. The combi­nation of those two qualities Christmas. My mind snapped at that moment, and I insisted on watching every single lame New Year's Eve special six nights later. I spent the next year in intensive psycnological coun­seling. 
That's only part of the reason I hate Christmas though. The thing I probably hate the most is the incredible commercializa­tion of the whole thing. In my home town of Dayton, Ohio. one of the big appliance stores has a 'Christmas in July' Sale. It's so horrible to hear this guy on the radio wheezing and yei-
n\E'fR£ WI\~ ·Kl S\1\WOO \JS LimE KIDS 'tJ\"n\ SUBLIMI~t..L ~ts9GES IN OOR ~. TEW~G \lS 1Cl1\JR~ I~ 0\.JR 
Pf\RtKTS \'\~EN \\-IE SA\\JR~I~ 
r>-IThCK! E~~ ~Ill. 8£.. 
~()8(8) 1-\El.P\f.'£>! 
I 

Bill Watterson 
I't-1. TOO SW..R\ 
f<)R '8<\.111~"! 
I 001'\T RtAD 
M~ t65\G~­
t-\rnTS! 

Tuesday, December 8, 1987 The Observer page 7 
Sports Briefs 
Pete Rose officially announced his retirement as a player from the Cincinnati Reds at baseball's winter meetings. In other activity, Bill Wood was named the gen­eral manager of the Houston Astros. -Associated Press 
The Miami Dolphins defeated she New York Jets Monday night, 37-28. Both teams are now 6-6. -Associated Press 
Broomball tournament sign-ups will beheld today through Thursday in the SUB office, second floor LaFor­tune. The tournament for the seven-player teams will be held during next semester's Winterfest. -The Observer 
WVFI-AM 640 will provide live coverage of tonights NO-Boston University basketball game. Frank Mastro and Kevin Herbert call the action. Coverage begins at 7 p.m. 
-The Observer 
Trivia Night returns to cap off the semester on WVFI's "Speaking of Sports." Join the executive sports staff by calling 239-6400 from 10-11 p.m. Prizes awarded every 15 minutes. -The Observer 
Andrysiak gets medical OK 
Associated Press  ton Bowl game against Texas  larbone Oct. 10 in a 30-22 loss  
A&M will be determined by his  at Pittsburgh.  
Notre Dame quarterback Terry Andrysiak, out with a broken collarbone since Octo­ progress the next three weeks. "I'm happy that Terry has  "Terry's shoulder was X­rayed Dec. 1 and indicated enough healing to permit him  
ber,  has been cleared  to  lift  come along well enough to start  to begin some limited work,"  
weights and throw a football and may start non-contact practice next weekend, Irish coach Lou Holtz said Monday. His status for the Jan. 1 Cot- throwing again," Holtz said. "Right now, there's no guaran­tee he can play in the Cotton Bowl. We just have to wait and see how things go for him." Andrysiak broke his left col- said Notre Dame trainer Jim Russ. "He has been doing a lot of running to stay in shape, and the strength work and throwing are the next steps. ''  

SMC swims to 12th at Invite 
By MOLLY MCNEILL made a favorable showing, earlier meet, at the Nationals Sports Writer placing 12th out of the 15 teams, in Orlando Florida, March 3-5. and qualifying a relay team for The Saint Mary's divers were 
The Saint Mary's swim team the Nationals. well represented in the meet as held its own in the first annual well. Kristin Cavanaugh lead National Catholic Invitational The 400 medley team consist­the Belles in the diving compe­last weekend held at Rolf's ing of Clair Druley, Megan tition, finishing in eighth place Aquatic Center. Ragerty, Lori Swedish and overall. 
The invitational attracted 15 Toni Oliveri qualified for the of the top teams in the country, Nationals by seven seconds. The Belles will use the next all of which were in a higher The 400 medley will join the few weeks to prepare for their division than Saint Mary's. 200 medley team and the 200 next invitational at the Univer­
Despite the odds, the Belles freestyle, who qualified at an sity of Indianapolis in January. 
Tile a...-NotN Deme of&e, located on the thlfd flool' of LaFortune Stu­«Mnt Centw, ecc:epb clualfled --.111ng from 10 L"'-until 4 p.m., Monday ttvuug11 Frtday. n.~Saint Mery's office, located on the third noor of Hllgg.-Collge C..t•, ecc:epb claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtday. Deadline for next-day clasalfleds Is 3 p.m. All clasalfleds must 
Classifieds be prapakl, either In person Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cenb per five c:hlncters p.-day. 
NOTICES 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277· 7406 
TYPINQ 277-8131 or 237-11148 
MARISSA'S TYPINQ 277-2724 NIQHT; 277·1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPINQ SERVICE. CAU MRS. COKER, 233-7008. 
FRIDAY, DEC.11, IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER BEFORE BREAK. THE DEADLINE FOR CLA881F1EDS FOR THAT ISSUE IS 3 PM THURSDAY, DEC.10. 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST SOMETIME THURSDAY 12-03: NO WOMAN'S CLASS RING. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-13631 
to the per110n who TOOK THE WRONG COAT at SA BAR on WEDNESDAY: H has a name In the back and hunting gloves In the pocket. Please call x3948. 
LOST: A TUXEDO JACKET (bettew It or not) In lhe beaemenl of Lalortune,by lhe automatic teller late SATURDAY PLEASE If you have H, or H you saw someone lake Hor even II you juat saw HCALL STEVE AT x-3068. I will be very grateful. PLEASE CALL 
F5 LOST AT FLANNER ALL-HALL: CANON SURE SHOT CAMERA WNAME ON BOTIOM. F5 IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL FRANK AT 1424.REWARDI 
LOST: Small gold antique pin with blue atones, In the computer center (I think). II you found It, please call Eileen at 271· 0952. Thanks. 
LOST: A gold Irish "friendship" ring some· where between the library and B.P. on Friday, the 4th. Extremely lmportant..-lf found call Janelle at £13~. 
FOR RENT 
Looking lor your own room next semes· ler? Need 1·3 roommates lor house, S100-$1 2&1no plus utilities. Call 271. 0758. 
APARTMENT FOR SUBLET 1 or 2 female roommates needed lor spring se· master call 288-2425 
2 Bdr STUDENT HOUSE $100 PER PERSON PLUS ELECTRIC NO DEPOSIT-FULL KITCHEN CAU BOB 5­7PM AT 287·6151 
ROOM FOR RENT: NEW ROOM IN RECENTLY RENOVATED HOUSE, GREAT SPACE WI LOTS OF WIN· OOWS, MINI BLINDS, CARPET, ETC. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS, MOVE IN /MMED., GREAT HOUSEl CALL Ml· CHAEL 239-5863 
2 BE DAM APT $250 e E 288· 7760 
WANTED 
I need 2 riders to Northeast Colorado lor Christmas Break Call Chris 1008 
WANT TO EARN $12 FOR JUST WATCHING T.V.? WANT TO EARN $12 FOR DOING YOUR STUDIES? RELAX IN OUR LAZY BOYS AND DO BOTHI GIVE BLOOD PLASMA AND HELP SAVE A CHILD'S LIFE I BRING THIS AD TO: AMERICAN PLASMA. 515 LIN· COLNWAY WEST. TUES. WED. FRI. SAT. 9:00-5:00 234· 6010 
NEED RIDERS Central NJ Dec 18 AM call 2955 
HI, ANY TWO GUYS WANNA LIVE AT VIEW WE ARE LOOKIN FOR 1 OR 2 TO SAVE $$$$ .... CALL BRIAN-DAN AT 1057 
NEED A RIDE TO HOUSTON OR DAL· LAS, OR ANYWHERE CLOSEBY OVER BREAK. CALL PATII £2986. 
FOR SALE 
-FOR SALE· 
-QENUINE HEINTZ PUPPIES. Choose now, we will hold rtrem unffllhe holidays 
Call PETE at 239·5803 or 234·7429 
Ia It True You Can Buy Jaapa for $44 through the U.S. government? Qat the facta today! Call 1-312-742-1141 Ext. 7318. 
For Sale Two Season Basketball Tickets, Bleachers Sec. 116, Face Value. Call Marie 239· 7668. 
Christmas Trees lor Dorm Roomsll Ser· glo's Sun God Christmas Village now of· lers artificial trees. Check out the 1 and 2 loot trees, perfect lor dorm rooms. Get all your lights and decorations with a stu· dent discount, just show 10. Be sure to see the Notre Dame lreell Sergio's Sun God Christmas VIllage 1919 South Mlc· higan Street South Bend, IN 287·9283 
LEATHER BASKETBALLS-WILSON "JEr-NEVER USEDII $25 ·•3692 
COUCH FOR SALE COUCH FOR SALE , GOOD CONDITION CALL 2201 
ROSSIGNOL STS 180cm with MARKER M40's $135 272·8813 
WATERBED..HEATED $75.00 CHRIS 234-7156 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE: 40 COTION BOWL TICK­ETS, TOQETHER ON 30-YARD LINE. CALL RAY (814) 237-5204. 
PERSONALS 
HEISMANI 
TRAFFIC TRAINEE South Bend branch of a national trana­portatlon flrm haa an opportunity that ollera a dlveralty of dutlea, grow1h po­tential and an excellent ularybenellta package. Quallflcatlona: Bachelor or ..aoclatea degree In general bual­neaa, good organizational and Inter­personal akttta, 35 wpm typing abtttty (lor computer uuge), able to work In 
• l..t paced atmoaphera, witting to work alone It n-aury. lnteraated? Send raaume to: So. Bend Manager P.O. Box 771 Sterling Hgta., Ml 4831 Hl771 
To the Alvin Social Club:Thanks lor put· ling up with the Birthday Queen lor the past three years.JUST THINK..Ihla will be the LAST TIME we can ever celebrate my birthday as SENIORS-· Dreldei,Dreidei,Dreldei .... Aivln 
PmCLUB Chrtatmaa Bua Leave: Friday Dec. 18, 10:00 p.m. 
C.C.E. (acrou from the Morrie Inn) Atrtve: Saturday Dec:. 18, 8:00a.m. Qrayhound Stetton Downtown Leave: Monday Jan. 11, 1 :00 p.m. Qrayhound Stetlon Downtown COST: $80.00 roundtrip -due at time ol algn-up Sign-up • lobby ol LaFortune Tueaday, Dec. 8, 8:00.7:00 p.m. Queatlona? Mike X3382 or Red X1751 
Tueeday, Dec. 28, 11187 may be your lucky dayl Toledo Career Network 10 a.m. -3 p.m. Downtown Toledo, Hotel Solltel. Vlalt the placement office lor mora In­formation or call 4111-243-8181. 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY Yogi's Yogurt will deliver a minimum or· der of $10 Tuesday and Thursday from 7 ·9PM 277 ·4337 
Once again, MAUREEN KELLY, we present the lop 1 0 running jokes from Fl. Lauderdale: 
6. Looking lor shells -"Wall, we need the llashllghtl" 
5. "Wall a minute, loday's my birthday!" 
GOING TO NEW JERSEY? For Sale· Cheap, One way or Round Trip ticket /rom South Bend to Newark. Call Bob at x1521. 
XMAS QLAMOUR. Qlve that apeclal guy the beat gilt of all -youraetl -In 
• 
glamour portrait. Plcturaa by nation­ally publlahed modal photographer. Joe Ringer. 287-0613. 

N. 
Mea 



Hope you had fun Friday Garfield 
Filth Floor McCand. Please Congratulate Cindy & Sue on a tremendous effort last Thursday The Bros. 
TO A MAN THEY CALL...ESPOTATOES 
(or sometimes he just goes by 'T'): I can't wall until I'm 30111 Take me now or lose me forever ... 
..fawning Oomelte 
DOME..OPOLV 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING Tues. Dec. 8 LaFortune Mont. Theatre 
All Dorm Reps, DC Trippers must attend or send rep. 
Will discuss DC trip, Mass, tact sheets, speakers AU WELCOMEII 
Hey 'Ville You be illin' 

HOLY CROSS HOG$3&KEEP CON­FIDENTIALA<3151 
A BIG THANK YOU TO ALL WHO MADE MY 18TH AT MY NEW "HOME AWAY FROM HOME" WONDERFUL. I LOVE YOU SOOOOOO MUCHI JUST BEAR IN MIND THAT I LIVE FOR REVENGE! 
LOVE, KRISTEN S. 

Tom, Pangborn's scl·fl freak, I would really like to get to know yal ·Fisher's Fav Fan 
LOST AT FLANNER ALL· HAU:CANON SURE SHOT CAMERA WINAME ON BOTIOM. IF FOUND,PLEASE CAU 1424,REWARDt 
TIMITIMITIMI CONGRATSI 

DOES ANYONE KNOW WHERE I CAN BUY A T-SHIRT WITH THE NOTRE DAME HEISMAN AWARD WINNERS LISTED ON THE BACK? CALL 2995 IF YOU DO 
TOM DARROW: DO YOU READ THE PERSONALS IN ATLANTA? 
DOES ANYONE HAVE A TAPE OF THE NQ1\IC BB GAME FROM LAST YEAR? IF YOU DO, CALL 2995. I'D LIKE TO TAPE YOUR COPY. 
Mark Qalaaao·Thank you lor Friday nlghtl (Your roses are still reddish!) I had a lebulouslime but what does one expect from a handsome Italian? Excuse me, I have to go again, SandEE P.S. You bel· ter smile more often. Merry Christmas, Bob and Jack! 
Rich, Thanks lor a great weekend In Chi· town and see ya' Salurdayl Good luck with my parents. Love, Deb 
···chrl• c.... 

Thank you lor a wonderful SYR Friday. 
Alao, thanka lor coming to 1he meet. 
tt made ma happy to look up end aee 
you alter my racul 

Randy Reindeer'• Keeper 
DON'T TELL ME what the SWEETEST THING Is about WVFI-AM 640. It's a BIG COUNTRY with Iota of DISORDER, but there Is MERCY. Make the BIG DECI· SION to listen to the man NOTORIOUS lor combining the BEST OF BOTH WORLDS ..... T.Im F.rommer .... Tuesdays.... 5·7 PM ..... 10,9,8,7,6,5,4,3,2,1. 
SOPHOMORES SKI TRIP SIGN-UPS NOW CLASS OFFICE, STUDENT CENTER $25.00 DEPOSIT 2 • 4 P.M. TIL FRI. 11TH •••• DONT MISS IT •••••• 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MICHAEL! LOVE, MARTHA (MUFFY) 
NEED RIDE lo NEW ENGLAND AREA for x-mas (I live in VT, but II you can gel me to MASS, CT. OR NH, I'd be happyll) Will share gas and expenses ..I can leave whenever alter WED. call ROS 12~ 
VICKI BUTH: From the famous "Horseshoe Curve· to 3-North wing, you're terrific I Thanks lor EVERYTHING. Hope IU and your Birthday were the BESTI So,... can I have some cake? 
T.P.-Thanx lor a wonderful SYR. Can I see you again even though my chesllsn'l THAT hairy? 
Majo, Kellie, Gla, Maria, Bryan, Tim, Ube, Jeff, the Girls of 244 & 253, Boo, Don, Pete, John, Mike, and Bill: Thank you lor making my 20th Birthday the most throb­bingly oaaom birthday I've ever had. H was WAY FUNII You all are the best friends a girl could ever ask lor. Love, Connie 
Bill, Thank you lor a great weekend. Connie 
Tom Falvey Happy Blr· would have put a "'hday" to go with your "Bir", but at 2 cents a letter and I want to buy Wed. at Club 23· Money can't buy you Happiness built can buy you Happy Blr· Love Katy 
Waterloo Yoo're fun and dangerous. Tell me wllaf I owe you. It's yours. Napoleon 
S.R. Thanks lor laking care of sis. We'll have to do some eggnog this week. 
P.S. Merry X-Mas 
Roses are red Napoleon's unllonn Is blue 
You want me 
And I want you 
JEN ABOIA 
So ABOYES, Yesterday was "COOL" 
BUT How do you spell "Fart?" P·H·A·R· 
T? Do ya' think? Hey, how does one gel 
an SYR dale? ANS: Pucker up & spin. 
ARTZIE.JUSTWAITIITAKE A PILLJENI 
Love yal GIBBY 
KEVIN, KEVIN, KEVIN MILLAR! I'M SO SORRY I CALLED YOU BRIANI FOR THAT, "YOU CAN CALL ME BETTY"! LOVE, LA 
PAT MUEHLBURGERI THANK YOU TO THE SECOND POWER FOR THE USE OF YOUR WINE SKIN. YOU'RE A TRUE HUMANITARIAN. -THE KRUZER 
To Steve: Thanks lor the late night entertainment Sunday at 3:06 am. Hope everything works out. Love, LeMans Annex 
WOLF PACK & COMPANY ·Thanks lor the bon voyage party. You're all great & I'll miss you next semester! Slay sweet· never change! Love ya, Laura (aka Bun· ny) 
CHRISTMAS BAZAAR CHRISTMAS BAZAAR SMC CHRISTMAS BAZAAR LEMANS LOBBY 10·4 MONDAY 1217-FRIDAY 12"11 
FRIDAY, DEC.11,1S ThO: LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER. THE DEADLINE FOR CLASSIFIEDS FOR THAT ISSUE IS THURSDAY, DEC. 10, AT 3 PM. 
BETH BOLGER Have a merry day love your KK and all the girls in 3A 
BETH BOLGER Have a merry day love your KK and all the gins In 3A 
JAZZ CLASSESIII 
JAZZ CLASSES/II 
JAZZ CLASSESIII SIQN UPS IN THE STUDENT QOVT. OFFICE DEC 10-11 TEACHER FROM JO ANN BRINES SCHOOL OF DANCE-ONLY 40 SPACES $9.00 FIRST MONTH 
CHRIB-YOU LOVEQOD THERE ONCE WAS A QUY FROM NYC, WHO CAME TO THE MIDWEST TO QET A PhD. WEU NEEDLESS TO SAY, HE QOT IT ANYWAY. EVEN THOUQH HE'S A QEEK, YOU SEE I Teke ua with you, Your Pete XXOO 
WAY TO QO, TIM BROWNitl 
YOU LOSE YOU SUCKER YOU LOSE· THE REPLACEMENTS 
ATIN. ELIQIBLE WOMEN OF NDI THERE'S STIU HOPEITHE ULTIMATE BLIND DATE IS RIGHT ON YOUR DOORSTEP. HE'S MATI HELLER (AKA "JOE SYR") CALL NOW FOR THE TIME OF YOUR LIFEI SIGNED, HIS LAST SYR DATE 
Ride needed lo ST. LOUIS lor christmas break. Call Mall x2318 
PFH People think I do stupid things. AI least I've never mistaken Father George lor Bill Truly STRAIGHT FROM HELLI AFH 
A FORMAL APOLOGY TO TED a.k.a. Lou I'm very, very sorryl Please forgive mel 
Love, Kel 
To the gin who asked ill was alright alter my basgeHi dinner went crashing to the floor in South on Sunday. I dropped the tray, but you lilted my spirits. Thanks lor the special show ol kindness...cortes 
TOTHEVANFROMHELLwllhcolfeeinlls well ... drlversitingearwithlilesaver inear.Spewingflames'erewego,driving lhrulheCievelandsnow(awesomecity) T otheonewholiredjokesoncue, wegol our"mindssetonyou".Totheone who ruledoveralltheOotsgames,maybeyou coulddoaswellwllhthedames Forever prayerskieswewllladmlreasSatanbums lneternalfire TolheSpeedDemonwhoen­dagered allourllves-yourjokesSUCKED. Wicked storiesandagoofysneeze,MontyPylhon andreceiptslorfees LOVEDTHETRIPTOPHILLVI WEEKLYREUNIONSI 

page 8 The Observer Tuesday, December 8, 1987 

Take advantage of special 'Macintoshr~ Holiday Bundle' pricing through January 15, 1988. 
The faster you move, the sooner you'll be warming up to the hottest personal CC)mputcr mc)ncy can l)uy. 
If,or pricing and other infonnation contact 
1be Notre Dame C'omjJuting C'enter 
239-7177. 

® 
Apple o.nd lhe Apple Loao are rq-ed tradmwlu ol Apple Compute Inc !Oiaw•&ooh 11 a trademark of Apple Com~>Jte Inc 
Tuesday, December 8, 1987 
The Observer page 9 
-, 
Men's volleyball 
As semester break nears, the club sport schedule for the Irish remains light. 
This week, one club makes its way into this column for the first time this season, while another appears for the first time in the history of Club Corner. The Men's Volleyball Club opened its cam­paign in Canada over Thanksgiving, and the recently-formed Equestrian Club begfln its pro­gram with competition at Purdue. 
At the University of Guelth in Canada, the Irish spikers suffered an early-season setback, finishing eighth in an eight-team field. Ohio State, the fourth­ranked team in the United States, won the title in a predominantly Canadian field. 
Notre Dame opened the tourney with a 11-15, 5-15, 10-15 loss to Guelth. After that, the squad fell to Wilfrid Laurier 9-15, 10-15, 15-10,9-15, and to Queen's 10-15, 8-15, 16-14, 14-16. Irish mentor Bill Anderson thought the squad played well at times, but realized 
opens with setback in Canada 
several aspects of the game that need to be im­proved. 
"The games were actually closer than they look," Anderson said. "There's just a lot of things that we need to work on, like passing and defense. Also, I 

"We had the talent to play with the other teams," Club President Keola Chun said, "but we didn't have the mental toughness to stay together in tough situations so, we made some key errors." 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
What 
Can An 
MBA 
Degree Do For 
You? 
T · H · E 
OHIO 
SlATE 
UNIVERSITY 
The Irish will be back in action Jan. 19 as they host Hope College. 
The Equestrian Club, meanwhile, recently traveled to Foxton Farms for its first competition, finishing second despite having only four team members taking part. 
During the first day of action, Paul Kelly took first place in the flat and fence class in the open division. He finished fourth and third in those same categories the second day of competition. Kelly recieved a ribbon and a silver platter for the high point rider at the conclusion of the event. 
Theresa Weithman, competing in the novice divi­sion, took first in the flat and third in the fences the first day, while finishing fifth in fences the second afternoon. Peggy Sullivan placed third in the intermediate fence class, and Danny Gordon showed in the Western Walk-Trot to round out the team's performance. 
An MBA degree from Ohio State can bring you greater opportunities, income, and career challenges. Our nationally recognized MBA program offers merit-base4 financial aid and has no prerequisites. We enroll both business and nonbusiness majors. And many of our graduates have gone on to jobs with established leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For a free brochure about our programs, please write or call: 
Director, MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road Columbus, OH 43210-1399 614-292-8511 

Sabre 
continued from page 12 
finish supported the sabre team's overall match victory. 
The epee division saw juniors Todd Griffee (6-1) and Ted Fay (5-0) pave the way for the Irish. 
Seniors  Doug  Dudinski  (3-1}  
and  Chris  Reardon  (3-2)  
rounded out the scoring.  

Notre Dame men's fencing coach Mike DeCicco begins his 27th season with a 505-40 meet record with the men's team, and has 599 total wins including seven years coaching the wo­men's squad. The men's team now has a 78-meet winning streak dating back to February 1984 when the Irish dropped a meet to Wayne State. The Irish women's 42-straight victories date back to the end of the 1985 season. 
TIME TO PREPARE. 

START YOUR KAPLAN PREP COURSE NOW AND SAVE!!! 
* 
10% discount until Dec. 31. 

* 
Use Study Center now until April exam. 

* 
Transfers for holidays available. 

* 
Beat 1988 price increase. 

* 
Reserve place in class. 


(Popular instructor Dan Stock is back!) 
INVEST IN YOUR FUTURE. 
c 

KAPLAN! 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
The worlds leading test prep organization 
CAU DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-4135 South Bend, IN 466J7 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiDIIIIIIDIIDinnnmliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIUI. IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIUUUIWIIUIIUIIIIIII,_, 


Tuesday, December 8, 1987 
page 10 The Observer 
,-Irish ready to face 3-1 Boston U. in home opener 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
Coming off an impressive 69­54 victory over Louisville on Saturday, the Notre Dame bas­ketball team faces Boston University at 7:30 tonight in the 1987-88 regular season home opener. 
The Irish jumped into the No. 19 spot in this week's Associ­ated Press poll, after being un­ranked in previous polls. They return to the Joyce ACC, tradi­tionally an unfriendly place for opponents to visit, after facing two Top 20 teams on the road in four days. 
"We're happy to be back at home," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "It's nice to be back here after two very diffi­cult away games last week against Indiana and Louisville. We've got Boston and Prairie View A&M on Thursday before another tough away game at DePaul." 
Though the opponent may not appear as formidable as In­diana or Louisville, Phelps has reason for concern with the recent play of the Terriers. 
"We've got the advantage of a home opener," added Phelps on the first of 17 home games on the schedule this season. "But you've got to be con­cerned by the way Boston beat Southern Cal by 22 after South­ern Cal only lost to North Carolina by five points." 
Boston, in its chase to unseat Northeastern as champions of the ECAC North Atlantic Con­ference and receive an auto­matic NCAA Tournament invi­tation, is now 3-1 after defeating Indiana State, 81-67, last Thursday night. The Ter­riers lost their first game, 66­61, with host Richmond in the Richmond Classic, then bounced back to defeat the Trojans, 75-53, in the consola­tion game. Boston head coach Mike Jarvis' team also owns a 69-56 victory over ECAC-rival Massachusetts. 
Pacing the Terrier attack so far this season has been 6'4" senior guard Drederick Irving, who led Boston in last winter's 18-12 campaign and has contin­ued to play a leading roll early this year. Irving is averaging 
22.5 points per outing, and will be a potent three-point threat against the Irish. He canned 37 trifectas last season, and has already hit 13-of-27 in four games this year 
Senior forward Larry Jones has turned in two consecutive "double-doubles" for Boston, 
ND grabs 19th spot 
Associated Press 
Notre Dame's win over Louisville in the Big Four Classic helped the Irish move to 19th in this week's Associated Press Poll. 
The Cardinals fell out of the Top 20. 
Meanwhile, the Kentucky Wildcats took the top spot from North Carolina, who fell to Vanderbilt last week. 
The Wildcats, 3-0, received 46 first-place votes and 1,090 points from a na­tional panel of sports writers and broadcasters to move one spot in the poll and easily outdistance runner-up Pit­tsburgh. 
TAKE A STUDY BREAK YOU GEEK!! GO TO NIGHTCLUB NIGHT AT THEODORE'S WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 9 9:30PM FEATURING THREE OF THE HOTTEST YOUNG COMEDIANS: 
WILL DIEDRICH BRIAN HOLLINGSWORTH 
Sly hands-which is why A Big Man with a big heart 
all the girls sit in the who will hit you with a front row. Too smooth Big, Big punch line! A man to be funny, and funny whose income has been 
enough to be smooth. seriously supplemented by the Will's gonna catch you save the whales foundation! off guard! 
CHECK OOT OOR FOLL FOOD & DRINK BAR 
-great for a late night snack 
SPONSORED BY SOB 
PIZZA 
BIG "V" SUPER SPECIAL 
GET 2 EXTRA LARGE PIZZAS PLUS 2 LITER BOTTLE OF COKE FOR $13.99 (PLUS TAX AND DELIVERY) YOUR CHOICE OF ANY ONE SINGLE TOPPING AND SECOND PIZZA WITH TWO TOPPINGS OF YOUR CHOICE. 
Not valid i~ combination with any other offers. Vahd at participating locations. EXPIRES 1!15-'87 

after leading several The last time Notre Dame Cambridge, Rindge and Latin faced Boston, Ewing's present teams to prominence, includ-coach, Rick Pitino, was the ing his 1977-81 teams led by Terriers' head coach. The Irish New York Knick center won that contest, the first Patrick Ewing. Jarvis has a 39-meeting between the two 22 record with the Terriers. schools, 89-63. 
IIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRDIIIIlllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
STUDE'S LOUNGE 
Corner of Ironwood and Mishawaka Ave. 
Cordially Invites NO & SMC To Join Us: 
WICKED WEDNESDAY: 
Frozen of Regular Long Island Ice Teas $2.50 24 oz Draft Beers $1.00 Domestic Canned Beers $1.00 Imported Canned Beers $1.75 All Shots $1.00 
THURSDAY: 
Any Shot $1.00 24 oz Draft Beers $1.00 
FREE SNACKS MUSIC-OJ-BEST IN TOWN TOP 40 DANCE MUSIC 
NO COVER 
Across the street {rom 7-1 1 Food Mart 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIDIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllll 
~ 

... .. ­
STEVEN KIMBROUGH 
This HOOSIER has been voted 'THE FUNNIEST MAN IN INDIANA." What? How can anyone from Indiana be funny? Come out to Theodore's and check him out! 
with a 19-point, 11-rebound per­formance against Massachu­setts and a 16-point, 12-rebound outing against Indiana State. Jones, normally a slow starter, leads the Terriers with 9.8 rebounds a game and has con­tributed 15.8 points per contest as well. 
Freshman Russell Jarvis, the coach's 6'9" nephew, entered the starting lineup in the season's second game and has 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC ALIDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
TICKnl AVAa.A81..£ AT nt! CMC 
~BOX()f'fl(2. 
l'tiCIH1WU'tD8 (NII.d NrD ttORTH VU....IW.L~ IIIJP!RIOO!Ule (B.I<ItAin). NU> J.R."I (lA 
POOITf). 
OWlQ!aYPHOOI! 
l~lt-214-5190 

already made his presence felt. With Irving in foul trouble against Massachusetts, Jarvis scored 14 of his 16 points in the second half. 
Junior point guards Tony DaCosta (101 assists last season) and Jeff Timberlake 
(178) return to give the Ter­riers' experience in the back­court. 
Coach Jarvis is in his third year at the helm for Boston 

Tuesday, December 8, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
Campus The Daily Crossword 



7 Enthusiastic 8 Persons 9 Abstruse 
10 Inadequate 11 Billy the Kid's 
nemesis 12 Hero 13 Use a 
stopwatch 18 Exits 23 Nautical term 24 Pinches 25 -and 
Pythlas 26 Open 27 More 
parched 28 Fr. president 29 "Bolero" 

composer 31 H 41 Evans or 50 Dirt 32 Stylish Ronstadt 51 Grain sorghum 34 Exhausted 44 Small falcon 52 Whit 37 Wintry 46 Does nothing 53 In a short 38 Brine 47 Rear while 
Ingredient 48 Look Intently 56 Cummerbund 40 Knit rib 49 011 land 57 Sailor 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
Runaway trains 
.. 
11:30 a.m.: Mass for the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Father John Lahey will celebrate the mass. Sacred Heart Church. 4:30p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Genes Affecting Drosophila Vision." Joseph O'Tousa will be speaking. Room 283, Auditorium, Galvin Life Science Center. Coffee at 4:15p.m. 5 p.m.: Mass for the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Father Thomas Gaug­han will celebrate the mass. Sacred Heart Church. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Cheese Lasagna Meatloaf Garlic Chicken Boneless Rib Sandwich 
lf}I."M.J·n: 1}~1¥ todrink<nl dri-.e ·~ lea~ let U-c n..."ii of l~ kll(M. 
Reader's D1gest 
Question: How do you reach over 12,000 
people daily? nswer: Buy Observer ad space. 
Call 239-6900. 
Comics 
Bloom County 
TH£ H[ISMAN TROPHY WAS 
fRAJ)!TIONALLY !tWMD[/J TO Til£ EEST COLL£.6£ fa:JTBIIU PLIIYU! IN lflf caJNTRY.... 
/ 
Saint Mary's 
French Dip Sandwich Stuffed Fish with Creole Sauce Spinach Crepes Deli Bar 
I'U1·1""'-IIhJhlr\riLi<'miiM lntflllf\'lllrtllll<rr 
I\172-I'>Kl ~'lf'<'tlf'l•cntrll ·~ tht·l nucd '•'~'"' 
Lllltoh l'fr"llt:m•tl,u•lrl• 

Ifthe press didn't tell us,who \\OOld? 
Ju llt'L prlnlc:d tnlurmi\Hifl till lhc rule: ul11lret' pre" ,u\d hu\\ 11 prulc(h \uur r1Fhl,,urtudl..cu,,an~ (rt:c I'II'C'' ''wc:.L·atlthC'flr<ol .lr.mrndml'OI('cnll:r•• 1-HIItl·~-'2·1tl011 
... BUT fAST WINNERS SIJ()f A5 VtNNI£ TESTI/V[RJ)£ ANb /'1/K[ ROZ![R S££M 71J t£ AN !NDtCT/1£NT OF OIJ~ 
NATIONAL [DVCI/T!ON SYSTEM 
INSTEAD OF THE "ST/)/)[Air" ATHL£TE5 TH{YN SUPf­05[!) m / 
Berke Breathed 
-LET's F/1(£ rr; FOU<5­THESE 6VY5 AI(£ MoRE APPI!cPRIIfTE fOR iH£ l!JJX (OVr.R Of ':4.LPHA -sm"a.REAL THIW WHEAT/Es': 
/ 

~~~ .JrB J ,73t 
ACROSS 1 -Sharif 5 Culpability 
10 Pointed shore 14 Golf warning 15 Splits 16 Muslim judge 17 Pianist-singer 19 Particle 20 Pen 21 Had debts 22 Snarl 24 Inquisitive 25 Alluvial 
deposit 26 Esteem 29 Steak order 30 Radiation unit 33 Clasps 34 Farr of TV 35 Inlet 36 Isles 37 Devastation 38 Coteries 39 Favorite 40 Ream 41 Fasten 42 Before 43 Genesis name 44 Foul 45 Angered 47 Extravagant 
talk 48 Beam 50 Trap or pile 51 Farrow of 
films 54 Soviet sea 55 Convention 
task 58 Novelist Grey 59 Maltreat 60 Singer 61 Make -meet 62 Metric 
measure 63 Certain horse 
DOWN 1 Switch positions 2 Castle 
defense 3 Showy 4 Legal matter 5 Shop casually 6 Br. sailor 
TIN bi.'OWN 's 11£/SM/IN 
V/CT~Y MIII?KS AN WT­[~ST!NG-CHANG[ IN RECENT H[ISHAN 7ROPHY 
/?[(ll'/[NTS. rOI< TH£ fl~ 
TIM[ IN YEA/?.5, A ';TU/)[M NHO ltTI.JIU.J....Y (iJ£5 TD TH£ ~" H£ PUIYS fCtf?. HA5 WON TH£ AWAI?D. 

Beernuts 

Sports
page 12 

Irish take third in Classic; Botham makes all-tourney team 
By THERESA KELLY ''They worked harder than The Irish pulled out to a lead 
Sports Writer we did," said Irish head coach early and managed to keep the Muffet McGraw of the Phoenix. Cougars at bay throughout the 
The Fighting Irish of Notre ''They outhustled us, they beat game. Notre Dame again had Dame had a battle with the us on the boards. They took the a hot first half, shooting 19 of Fighting Phoenix of Wisconsin­game more seriously than we 29 (.655). Green Bay Friday night, and did. They played with a lot of Karen Robinson led the Irish the Phoenix got the best of the desire, we didn't." with 20 points, and Heidi Bunek Irish in the women's basketball Sandy Botham, who was added 16. Botham also tallied 
team's first game of the named to the All-Classic team, 16 points and led the way with Phoenix Classic. led the Irish with 20 points, 11 rebounds. The Irish earned a victory in shooting 9 of 11 from the floor, "Sandy Botham played the consolation game on Satur­and pulled down 11 rebounds. really well," said McGraw. 
day with a victory over Brig­"She kept us in the first game. ham Young University. The close game was a tough Heidi Bunek had some foul 
The opening contest was way to break an eight-game trouble, but did well in limited close throughout as the final winning streak dating back to playing time. Mary Gavin (13 score of 69-65 indicates. The last season. assists) had a good game Irish were down 41-34 at the "It was really a letdown for against BYU." half despite shooting an all of us," McGraw said. "We Despite the loss, several posi­amazing .823 (14 of 17) from the knew we should have won the tives came out of the trip to 
field. game." Green Bay. The Irish bounced back on "We shot the ball well," said 
The Irish held the game close the second day of the Phoenix McGraw. "We were better than in the second half but were un­Classic with a consolation 50 percent in both games. The able to put together a run. After game victory over the Cougars press is working well, too. tying the game at 63 with 1:42 of BYU, 81-69, and again the "The fast break worked remaining, Green Bay's Donna desire to win made the differ­against BYU. We had opportu­Gunville gunned a three­ence, according to McGraw. nities against Green Bay but pointer and the Phoenix never ''We wanted to win more than we didn't get the lay-ups in." looked back. BYU did," she said. "We The Irish will try to up their 
What were the factors contri­learned a good lesson from the record to 4-1 as they play host buting to the first loss of the Wisconsin-Green Bay game. to Oakland Wednesday night at season for Notre Dame? We played a lot harder." the Joyce ACC. 
Wrestlers do 'respectable job' at 
By STEVE MEGARGEE (fifth) and 177-pound junior finals of the Las Vegas Invita­"It was just a donnybrook," meet schedule, which begins Sports Writer Chris Geneser (sixth). tional. But Wisniewski did well. McCann said of the Durso­this Thursday at Miami of "We did a respectable job, He was up, 7-1, in his last match Smith match. "John had a dif­Ohio. The Invitational included 
Even though the Notre Dame but we could have done better," and ended up pinning himself. ficult time with Jerry. That was 13 schools in the nation's Top wrestling team accomplished said Irish coach Fran McCann. "Layton and Gerardi did well the toughest John Smith had to 20, every school in the Bigits goal of placing in the top 10 "We were one match away with a couple of mental lapses. wrestle in two years. Smith Eight and six schools from the in last weekend's Las Vegas In­from placing another three They were not in awe of the ended up winning like 10-1 in Big Ten. vitational, the Irish were far guys." competition at all." the finals, so this match was from satisfied. McCann had good reason to basically the final. "It was probably the most 
Wrestlers who came one be pleased with the wrestlers competitive tournament in the 
Notre Dame finished lOth out match away from placing in­who placed at Las Vegas, with "Chris wrestled great at country," said McCann. "As of 45 teams participating in the cluded 142-pound senior Ron Durso wrestling particularly spots. He beat an All-American far as numbers, it was bigger two-day event, but just four Wisniewski, who replaced the well. The junior Irish co­from Purdue, 10-0, then than the NCAA's, and in quality more points would have put the injured Pat Boyd, and fresh­captain recorded a pin, a tech­wrestled a national contender it was just a tad below the Irish in eighth place. Individ­men Mark Gerardi and Todd nical fall and another pin in his from Arizona State. He blew a NCAA's. uals placing for Notre Dame in­Layton. first three matches, then fi­good lead there and lost, 13-11." "In retrospect, you can say, cluded 134-pound junior Jerry "We really missed Boyd," nally lost to defending national The competition at Las 'Hey, we were right in there Durso (fourth), 118-pound said McCann. "A kid Pat beat champion John Smith of Okla­Vegas gave the Irish an excel­with the best teams in the sophomore Andy Radenbaugh in the St. Louis Open was in the homa State, 12-9. lent preparation for their dual country."' 
Fencing teams at it again, coast in season openers 
By CHRIS FILLIO Auriol's perfect record to 45-0 to championship form of years Sports Writer as he enters his third season past. A mere six of the topcoaching the women's fencing twenty-seven fencers on the 
The Irish men's and women's team. Individually, women's combined men's and women's fencing teams both cruised to captain and three-time all­squads are seniors, while the easy victories in their first con­America Molly Sullivan, Irish boast eight juniors, five tests of the year held at juniors Janice Hynes and Kris­sophomores and eight fresh­Northwestern last weekend. tin Kralicek, and sophomore men. 
The Irish men under head Anne Barreda all finished the Returning All-American and coach Mike DiCicco polished day with spotless 12-0 records foil captain Yehuda Kovacs off Stanford 21-6 and Cal-State in the foil division. again dominated his division Long Beach 24-3 after beating The women's second team of with a 6-0 finish. Sophomore a tough Air Force team 16-11. juniors Brenda Leiser and Kim Joel Clark continued his fine The returning NCAA Cham­Sollinger, and freshmen Mar­form of last year with a 5-1 pion women's team fielded garet Connor and Lynn Kadri mark. Senior Gary both an A team and a B team also had a relatively easy time. Galeziewski (2-0), sophomore in the absence of the Saint Men's coach DeCicco sees Colin Gumbs (2-2) and fresh­Mary's fencing squad. Head the addition of assistant coach man Phil Leary (4-3) com­coach Yves Auriol directed the Michael Marks as critical to pleted the foil division for the 
r women to an overwhelming 48-the future success of both Irish men. 0 win. teams. Junior Sabre captain Tim 
The victory by the women's "I can feel confident stepping Collins set the pace in that divi­team dispelled many concerns back knowing that the program sion with a 4-2 finish while which DiCicco had over the is in the hands of Yves and senior Jim Reilly and junior 
, possibility of complacency for talented young people like Steve Rawlings both had per­last year's NCAA champions. Mike Marks," said DeCicco. fect 3-0 records. "They are definitely our "He will be a force in American Sophomore Danny Yu's 3-2 strongest fencing group, as fencing for the next 25 or so mark and freshman Lesek well they should be," said years." Nowosielski's surprising 5-0 DeCicco. DeCicco also noted the youth The victories extend Yves of the teams as key to returning see SABRE, page 9 






