ND elections -page 3 

VOL. XXI, NO. 83 TUESDAY,FEBRUARY3,1~7 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Aquino wins endorsement for constitution, 5 more years 
Associated Press Luzon Island stronghold of from seven northern Luzon 
former President Ferdinand provinces showed about 54 per­
MANILA, Philippines -Pres­Marcos did a majority of voters cent in the region were opposed ident Corazon Aquino won a appear to have rejected the to Mrs. Aquino's proposal. Op­decisive victory Monday as proposal. position also was strong m Filipinos overwhelmingly en­Final, official returns from Manila precincts at military in­dorsed her proposed constitu­the Commission on Elections stallations. tion and another five years of were not expected before next Mutinous soldiers linked to her leadership, unofficial week. Marcos attemptep a revolt last returns showed. The private vote-count week but were put down by gov­
Filipinos backed the draft showed an approval margin of ernment troops. Some military charter by a 4 to 1 margin more than 80 percent-5,374,617 officials, including one of the nationwide, according to the to 1,294,656-with 27 percent of coup leaders, have criticized unofficial count by the private the 86,703 precincts reporting the government's peace over­National Movement for Free nationwide. tun~s to end the 18-year-old Elections. Only in the northern Partial, unofficial returns Communist insurgency. 

Student Body President Michael Switek, sitting at the helm of his administration, crayons a note to some top officials. Switek was called on 

Senate defeats gay rights proposal 
By CHRIS JULKA Copy Editor  the upcoming student election ballot asking students to rate The Observer.  Dame community." Montanaro said the basis for the statement was ques- 
Student  Body  President  The  first  proposal  called  tionable and said it should be  
Mike Switek broke a tie in the  upon the University to allow  changed  to  "There  are  
Student Senate Monday night by voting against a proposal  the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Gay-Lesbian Society to  homosexuals in the Dame community."  Notre  
recommending homosexuals be  that allowed to  reserve campus  meeting and  rooms on advertise  Student Senator John Gar­diner, who proposed the  
reserve rooms for meetings and advertise through Uni­versity media. The senate also voted to  through University media. When the first proposal was submitted for discussion, sen­ate members disputed the  resolution, said he disagreed. "I have Dr. (Patrick) Utz (Director of the Counseling and Psychological Services  
close discussion on a second  preamble  as  well  as  the  Center) verifying that a good  
proposal to establish campus advisory board The Observer, and took  a for no  resolution itself. Student Vice President Don Montanaro challenged the  estimate would be 5-600. And that's a good estimate .... I think it's really safe to say  
vote on the proposal. In addition, the senate voted to add a referendum to  . preamble's contention that there are ''approximately 500­600 homosexuals in the Notre  that there are see SENATE, page4  500  


Voters were asked to state first time Mrs. Aquino turned "yes" or "no" on whether they to the electorate for an endorse­supported ratification of the ment of her 11-month-old lead­20,000-word draft, which ership, and her supporters des­sharply reduces the power of cribed the balloting as a "vote the president, restores a of confidence." bicameral legislature, bans the Former Defense Minister military from political activity Juan Ponce Enrile, who cam­except voting and expands paigned against ratification, human rights guarantees. claimed Mrs. Aquino used the 
The charter, completed in vote to run for re-election un­October by a.48-member com­contested. mission appointed by Mrs. Leftists, including labor Aquino, also guarantees her a groups and the Communist six-year term. 
The plebiscite marked the see AQUINO, page 3 
Student charged in Cogswell accident 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Notre Dame student was News Editor originally charged with driving under the influence of alcohol. 
A Notre Dame student will The charge was dropped, be charged with driving under however, so that the case could the influence of alcohol, a Class be sent to the grand jury for A misdemeanor, in connection review, he said. with the Dec. 6 accident that Barnes said he could not dis­resulted in junior Michael cuss why the grand jury rec­Cogswell's death. ommended charging the stu­
The St. Joseph County grand dent with a misdemeanor. jury did not indict the 21-year­He did say, however, "the en­old student last week, but in­tire factual circumstances of stead recommended that he be Mr. Cogswell's death were ex­charged with a misdemeanor posed. And the grand jury, County Prosecutor Michaer·1 after reviewing the case, made Barnes said Monday. what they thought was an ap­
The charge carries a maxi­propriate recommendation." mum punishment of one year Barnes said he decided to in prison and a $5,000 fine, reinstate the original charge Barnes said. The student also because he "thought that was could get probation. 
Barnes said the 21-year-old see CHARGE, page 4 
... while other student faces trial on Feb. 17 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
The Notre Dame student charged in connection with a traffic accident that killed a South Bend man will go to trial on Feb. 17, County Prosecutor Michael Barnes said Monday. 
The 20-year-old student has pleaded innocent to charges of reckless homicide and involun­tary manslaughter stemming from the Nov. 15 a<!cident. 
The case, which will be heard in St. Joseph County Superior Court, involves the death of Buddy D. Moore, 52, of 1314 Goodland Ave. 
Moore died of severe head in­juries one day after being struck by a car driven by the student, county police records show. 
Following the accident, the student was arrested on mis­demeanor charges of driving while intoxicated and driving charged with reckless homicide, a Class C felony which carries a maximum penalty of eight years in prison and a $10,000 fine. The mini­mum punishment is three years in prison. 
with  an  expired  operator's  
license, according  to  police  
records.  

Those  charges  were  dis­ 
missed, however.  
Instead  the  student  was  

The student was also charged with involuntary manslaughter, a Class D felony punishable by up to four years in prison and a $10,000 fine. The minimum penalty is a one-year prison term. 
According to police records, Moore was struck as he walked on Edison Road shortly after the Penn State-Notre Dame game. 
The accident occurred when the student's car made aU-turn on Edison Road, headed east and then struck Moore, police records show. 
Moore was taken to St. Joseph's Medical Center in South Bend, where he died the next day. 

----~----------~-~ -·-~ --,----...
~----~--~---~..,._..,...--------~--.--~ ---~~--~-------~---~~~---­
The Observer Tuesday, February 3, 1987 -page 2 

Same waiting game continues 
In Brief 
Jeanne Heller, student body president,
announced at last night's meeting of tile Saint Mary's Board of Governance that those who have not signed the petition to open Cushwa Leighton library earlier on Sun­days may do so Wednesday in Madaleva. The petition will be presented to the Academic Mfairs Council which will meet in two and a half weeks. -The Observer 
Cartoonist Johnny Hart's "The Wizard of Id" and "B.C." comic strips have joined a New York State police campaign of posters, leaflets and pamphlets against teen-age suicide and drug abuse. One drawing shows the king from "The Wizard of Id" carrying a picket sign with the message "Start Your Own Revolution, Take A Friend Off Drugs.'' Similar locally produced flyers and pamphlets are in use in Colorado, Utah, Texas, California and Wash­ington state, officials said. -Associated Press 
Republican presidential hopeful Pete du Pont on Monday urged drug-use testing for workers in critical occupations, ranging from pilots and doctors to crane operators. Du Pont, the former Delaware governor and only announced GOP candidate for president, earlier had called for random drug-testing of school children nation­wide. He said the importance of eliminating drug use made mandatory testing a reasonable requirement, despite con­stitutional guarantees. -Associated Press 
Liberace, the piano virtuoso whose flashy garb and gentle wit made nim a television and concert favorite for 40 years, was reported near death on Monday at his desert home in Palm Springs, Calif. Liberace, 67, is suf­fering from anemia, emphysema and heart disease. Friend and manager Seymour Heller said the entertainer was exhausted after a sell-out performance in Radio City Music Hall early last month. Heller blamed the fatigue on a watermelon diet the star went on in 1986. He denied a report in the Las Vegas (Nev.) Sun that the star had AIDS. -Associate Press 

Of Interest 
Keith Egan, chairman of the Religious Studies Department of Saint Mary's, will present "The Catholic Experience and Lay Spirituality,'' the third of a series of six lectures offered by the College's Center for Spirituality, Wednesday at 12:15. The presentation will be held in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. The program is free and open to the public.-The Observer. 
Omicron Delta Epsilon will have a meeting tonight at 6:30 in the Walsh Hall South Lounge. Member­ship certificates will be distributed. The meeting is man­datory for all members. -The Observer. 

Weather 
Weather DJ. We built this school 

as senior anticipates tbe future 
Anticipation permeates the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community as seniors prepare themselves for the "real world." The Counsel­ing and Career development center at Saint Mary's and the Career and Placement services center at Notre Dame are filled with anxious students who are opening files, signing up for on-campus interviews and applying for graduate schools. 
The anticipation soon turns into anxiety as students prepare their resumes, receive second interviews and complete graduate school appli­cations. Mter this is done, students must wait. 
I think back to my senior year in high school when, in the fall, I hurriedly prepared at least eight applications to various colleges and uni­versities around the United States. I was set on attending one school in particular. I was told that I would hear by May 1 of my acceptance or rejection. For many weeks before, I thought about all the possibilities: how the letter would read if I were accepted, and how I would feel; and how the letter would read if I were rejected, and how I would feel. 
Not only did I imagine, but I also asked the opinions of my parents and teachers, "Do you think I'll get in?" (What were they supposed to say, NO?) Of course not. Quite politely, they all responded, "You have just as good a chance as anyone, you've done all you can do now it's up to the admissions committee. 
Soon May 1 came and my mailbox was empty. Itremained empty for several days afterwards. 
Approximately 3 weeks after the May 1 es­timation a letter arrived at my house. It read completely different than I had ever expected. I wasn't rejected, and I wasn't accepted. In­stead I was on a waiting list "until further notice." 
This is one option that I had not considered. My months of pondering over my future were over and I still didn't now the answers. 
Because of this delay, I couldn't hold off my college decision any further; instead, I withdrew my name from the waiting list and pursued another path. 
Manr seniors may feel this same anticipation as they wait patiently for second interviews or graduate school acceptance letters. 
It is comforting to know tha:t if the one career path a student counts on does not develop, there are many other paths that one can pursue. It is still difficult however, to go to the mailbox day after day, look in, and see light coming from the other side. It looks alone, empty and desolate. 
It is just as horrifying to open the mailbox and see the return address of the company or 


Production Staff Meeting 
All Design Editors and Assistants, Accent, Viewpoint, 
and Special Page Layout Wednesday, February 4, 7:30pm LaFortune 
Margie Kersten 
Saint Mary's Editor 

graduate school, tear it open, only to find a financial aid form or a confirmation letter from a company. 
Whatever the case, one must always remem­ber that one letter does not make or break one's whole life. As Jeff Roberts, coordinator of place­ment services and assistant director of coun­seling and career development at Saint Mary's said, "It would take 181,818.18 twenty-two cent rejection letters to equal the $40,000 education students receive." 
With this in mind, Roberts .said students should realize that only a minute portion of available employers conduct on-campus inter­views. The on-campus system is designed to reject the majority of applicants, he said. 
Approximately 25 percent of college seniors have jobs when they graduate, either through on-campus interviewing or other wise, he said. 
Because of the competition involved with on­campus interviewing, rejection letters are the norm. When one is received, several questions should be asked: Was I geniunely interested in the position? ; If so, did I take the opportunity to present myself in the fullest sense, such as attending receptions, writing thank-you's, as­king questions, and researching the organiza­tion? ; If I did, were the odds in my favor to begin with? ; And finally, What was the compe­tition for the job position? 
With these questions in mind, students can begin to look realistically at the "real world," Roberts said. 
A person's whole life is not contained in one letter. If the original goal is not reached, an­other will take its place. 

on rock and snow, and lately we've been spinning out the best temps of 1987. Wrap your ears around this new sound: upper 30s for today and low down to the mid 20s when night checks in. Tomorrow sounds good with sunshine and high in the upper 30s. Right on. Let's stay tuned to sunny and soon we'll be listening to those old 45s. -The Observer. 



SENIORS 
It is not too late! You can still purchase the Senior Class Video Tape for only $47.50. The color video highlights memorable events (football games, interviews, candids) 
Simply send this form to: 
Special Moments Collection 
Box 735 LeMans Hall 
Saint Mary's College 
Name Check one: BETA,u Address VHsO 


---------.---------------~ 

Design Editor·········~·· .... ~. Alice Kroeger Viewpoint Layout .............. Heidi Traxler Design Assistant ................ Mike Mojica Accent Copy Editor ............. Tom Beatty Layout Staff................... ,.. Lisa Tugman Accent Layout...................... Carey Gels Typesetter ........................ John Connelly Typists................................ Colleen Foy .............................................. Jose Novas ND Day Editor .................. Ron Almiron News Editor .................. Mary Heilmann SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Copy Editor ........................ Bud Luepke Ad Design .......................... Joan Wrappe Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen .............................. Mary Carrol Creadon Viewpoint Copy Editor . . . . . . Julie Collinge Photographer ...................... Mike Moran 
Tbe Obsener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Obsener is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, February 3, 1987-page 3 
The Observer 
Those critics refused to con­cede defeat and predicted more 
Aquino Israeli parliament to have hearings
political challenges to the gov­
ernment despite Mrs. Aquino's promise that ratification would Party, denounced the charter bring stability. 
..·on.inuedfrom page 1 
to determine role in arms scandal 
as · · pro-1mperiahst" and said it did not go far enough in changing Philippine society. 
Right-wing criticism has centered on a provision that ex­tends Mrs. Aquino's term to June 30, 1992. They have ques­tioned the mandate Mrs. Aquino claimed in last February's fraud-tainted presidential election. 
The army placed 79 of its 81 battalions on alert in case of trouble following last week's failed coup attempt. 
The charter provides for self­rule for the Moslem minority and land reform for the peasants but leaves details to a Congress to be elected May 11. 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -A parliamen­tary committee announced Monday it will conduct hearings on whether Israel promoted American arms sales to Iran and had a role in diverting profits to rebels in Nicaragua. 
Committee member Simcha Dinitz told The Associated Press that a six-member sub­committe on intelligence ser­vices would begin closed-door sessions Tuesday by question­ing two Israeli officials named in the Senate report. 
He identified them as Amiram Nir, the prime mini­a request by an American member of the National Secur­ity Council who proposed this to Israel." 
Dinitz said the Senate allega­tions required further response. He said the commit­tee wanted to give Israeli offi­cials "an opportunity to respond to our satisfaction to 
Testimony in a 64-page U.S. ster's adviser on anti­these allegations." senate report indicated Israel terrorism, and David Kimche, The legislative committee initiated the U.S. arms sales to former director-general of the began hearings in November Iran and played a role in fun­Foreign Ministry. They acted when the weapons deals be­neling profits to the Contras as liaison to Washington in the came known. The Senate
(J) 
fighting the Nicaraguan gov­arms deals. report has triggered new con­ernment. The Senate Intelligence Com­cern that the scandal could The Israeli government on mittee report published Friday harm Israel's ties with the U.S. Sunday denied such findings. listed Nir and Kimche as in­Congress. Israel counts on Abba Eban, chairman of the itiators of some of the sales. Congress for essential foreign 
~ 
0 ~ 
Knesset's Defense and Foreign The report said Nir and aid, which totalled $3 billion


Alittle 
Mfairs Committee, said he Defense Minister Yitzhak last year. wrote a letter to Prime Mini­Rabin suggested diverting The hearings will be secret ster Yitzhak Shamir asking funds from the sales to the and closed to the press, Dinitz 
u 
that the government provide a Nicaraguan rebels. said. written explanation of its role Nir has made no public com­in the arms scandal. ment since the arms scandal Senior Israeli officials have 
marching 
"Israel's official statements broke in November. Kimche said Israel also has agreed to
canput 
have only been reactions and denied he proposed arms provide the Senate panel 
l) 
do not give a positive, con­dealings with Iran, and Rabin headed by Daniel Inouye with 
tiguous account of Israel's ac­rejected allegations that he had written testimony from Nir, 
z 
youastep tions and the principles that authorized shipments of arms Kimche and two Israeli arms guided it," Eban said in a state­to Contra rebels. dealers involved in the weap­ment distributed to reporters. "Not only did I not propose, ons sales. Eban said he asked for a neither I nor any authorized Is­

ahead 
"detailed document that will raeli, proposed that Israel help Dinitz said Inouye, D­
explain the government's ac­the Contras directly in any Hawaii, asked Israel for the in­
z t c 
tions and rationale on the sub­way," Rabin said on Israel formation last week and the 25­
ofevery ject of (selling) weapons to Army Radio on Sunday. member Israeli Cabinet has Iran." "On the contrary, I rejected agreed.


other 

Only one



college 
ticket attends 
~ 

meeting for 
graduate. 
~ 
candidates 

By ELIZABETH R. CORNWELL
Get your career off to a fast start. 
Staff Reporter Enroll in the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps now. And 
Only one prospective student body presidential ticket atten­
you could gradllate with both 
ded Monday night's informa­
a college degree and an officer's 
tional meeting.
commission in the U.S. Army. 
Prospective student body presidential candidate Vince
Army ROTC is the college 
Willis and his intended running 
elective that gives you the 
mate, Cathy Nonnenkamp, at­
confidence, leadership skills and 
tended the optional meeting. 
discipline essential to any 
Willis is manager of successful career, civilian or 
Theodore's, and Nonnenkamp military. 
is junior class president. Because the meeting was not
Get the experience and 
mandatory, other prospectiveresponsibility other graduates will 
candidates may still choose to have to wait years for. Talk to your 
enter the election, according to
University of Notre Dame 
Dan Gamache, Ombudsman Election Committee chairman. 
Professor of Military Science, 
today. 
Foreign Study Program 
A mandatory meeting for all prospective candidates will be held in room 123 Nieuwland Sci­ence Hall at 6:30p.m. Wednes­day, Gamache said. 

Prospective candidates will receive their petitions for office at the meeting, said Gamache. 
They must have 150 student signatures on the petitions and have them filed with the Om­
Important Meeting 
Interested? 
budsman Election Committee 

What: lnforr'nation on the Program 
by Feb. 9.

Call Capt. Domingo 
in Jerusalem. 239-6264 
The committee will release 
When: TONIGHT 
an official list of candidates on 
6:30pm. -8:00pm. 
Feb. 9, Gamache said. The can­didates will be allowed to begin 
WherP: 120 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
their campaigns at 12 a.m. on Feb. 11. 
Anti-Violence Activist 
Cen1er for Teaching Non-Violence & NCTV full·tlme stall. Lodging &
Applications are still being accepted for 
$400/mo. Research on aggre&SIOn, publishing & lobbying againal vtoltmce 
Fall 1987 program 
tn TV, ftlm, war loya, aports, erotica, 
etc. Non·vtolant hlms. Next to U llllnots. 
Student loans doforabfo. 211·384·1920. 
P.O. Bo< 2157. Chompaogn IL 61820 
The Observer 


Senate 
continuedfrompage 1 
homosexuals on campus." 
Members of the senate also 
voiced criticism of statements 
contained within the resolution 
itself. 
"If they are to have club 
status, does that mean they 
could rent out Theodore's and 
have a gathering?" asked 
Maria Cintron, judicial council 
coordinator. 
"Just like the ISO could rent 
out Theodore's," said Gar­
diner, adding that allowing a 
homosexual club to rent out 
Theodore's would be the same 
as allowing the Black Cultural 
Arts Society to do so. 
Student Senator Tim Salmon 
said there was a distinction be­
tween recognizing a homo­
sexual organization and an or­
ganization like the 
International Student Organi­
zation. 
"The majority has given its consent to recognize (groups like the ISO) even though they are a minority," Salmon said. 
Recognizing a club for homosexuals however, "would go against the 7,400 students who are not homosexuals," he said. 
Gardiner said such a policy attitude "does not promote diversification in the student body." 
Freshman Advisory Council President Dave Kimkopf said he objected to a portion of the resolution which stated the ad­ministration's policy of "notal­lowing homosexuals the mini­mal rights to reserve a room and inform other of its exis­tence is harassment and prej­udice itself." 
Said Kimkopf: "I don't know if the University actually is prejudiced in acting the way it does. "I think what we're as­king here is the University to 
disregard the Church's teach-

Charge 
continued from page 1 
the appropriate charge for (the student) to face at a mini­mum." 
Last week, the grand jury reviewed three fatal traffic ac­cidents, including the one in­volving Cogswell. The six­member panel returned one indictment, which was made public on Monday. 
Indicted on the Class D felony charge of involuntary manslaughter was a 20-year­old Mishawaka resident. 
The man was indicted in con­
nection with an Oct. 19 crash, 
which resulted in the death of 
a 16-year-old youth. 
The Mishawaka resident, who is not a Notre Dame stu­dent, turned himself in to aut­horities on Sunday. 
Following the Dec. 6 accident involving Cogswell, the 21­year-old student was arrested on the charge of driving while intoxicated, police said. The student had submitted to two blood-alcohol tests before the arrest. 
According to police, the stu­dent said he was driving east on Saint Mary's Road, stopped at a stop sign, then went for­ward and hit an unknown ob­ject. 
Cogswell, a 20-year-old Zahm Hall resident, died from mas­sive head injuries 10 hours after being struck. 
The 21-year-old student has not yet pleaded in the case, Barnes said. 
ing in making its policy, and that's a very serious thing .... I think (the University) acted absolutely correctly in the way it did." 
Sheila O'Conner, co-chairman of the Hall Presi­dent's Council, objected. She argued, "If you don't want to recognize homosexuals as a club, what do you suggest the group do? Just let them suf­fer?" 
Executive Coordinator Mike Jaeger said, "This University (already) provides for the things you are suggesting other than club status." 
Said O'Connor: "But then no matter what, you are stuck with Campus Ministry. "(We need to) get them some sort of room for a pre-arranged meeting." 
In response to criticism that such a meeting could become a "pick-up point for homosexuals," Gardiner said, "Heterosexual meetings are pick-up points .... A lot of the times it's the same thing." 
When a motion passed to vote on the proposal, Switek broke a tie by deciding against the proposal. 
Gardiner then submitted a proposal, whereby a review board would be established, which would "be available to students and review the status of the Observer once or twice a semester." 
Gardiner said the board would have no oversight powers. Nevertheless, the pro­posal stated that the board would "be allotted a certain amount of money by student government annually for ex­penses and in the instance that it must advertise something it finds totally wrong." 
Gardiner said he had heard complaints that The Observer rejects many of the columns submitted to it and that it is therefore not open to the full student body. 
Montanaro countered that this was the prerogative of an independent newspaper like The Observer. 
Gardiner said "If the stu­dents must pay a mandatory fee of $12 each year for the Ob­server, then the students should have a say in it." 
Montanaro said students already do have a say in it be­cause it is open to "any fresh­man who wants to become a reporter and work up through the ranks." 
Added Montanaro: "People have to pay for Scholastic and the yearbook too, and many don't get what they want to be in it." 
Switek then said, "I am violently opposed to any stu­dent government control what­soever over The Observer." 
At his request, over two thirds of the senate voted to close the debate. 
"I don't see any connection between us and The Observer,'' Switek said. 
The senate did pass a pro­posal to place two referendums on the student election ballot. One will ask students whether the University should set a date for disinvestment of its hold­ings in companies engaged in business activities in South Africa. The other will ask stu­dents to rate the quality of the Observer. 
Tuesday, February 3, 1987 -page 4 

AP Photo 
Philippine President Corazon Aquino poses for photographers as she casts her ballot in Monday's plebiscite. Story on page one. 

ND AVE APTS. 

Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completelyfurnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount Call 234-6647 by Pinkerton Security Agency 
Observers: 
Telxon will hold an open house at the Morris Inn on February 5 and will be in­terviewing 1987 graduates on February 6 for growth­generated positions. 
Telxcn is a high-tech com­pany manufacturing hand­

held micro computers and accessories and developing custom software and communications packages. With a compounded growth rate of over 30% for the last five years. Telxon provides an exceptional environment for growth in an exploding arena. 
VOCATION RETREAT 
[p)(UJ~[p)(Q)~~ to help you consider the brotherhood 
and priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
[Q)~If~~ Friday, February 13 to 
7:00 p.m. 
[p)[Lffi\~~ Moreau Seminary 
Saturday, February 14 
12:00 noon 
~~~~~u~~u~©U\JJby calling the Vocation Office-no cost 239-6385 

View~_o_i_n_t_______ 1987--pa-ge5
Tues-day,F-ebru-ary3_, 
Catholic theologians must present Church's views 
In light of the Charles Curran case, it would be appropriate for Notre Dame and other Catholic universities to reassess their own compliance with the principle of truth in labeling which is central to that case. The Sacred Con­gregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, with the approval of the Pope, informed Father Curran that "one who dissents from the Magisterium as you do is not suitable nor eligible to teach Catholic theology." The decision was based on Fr. Curran's "open contrast" with the teaching of the Church on the following issues: "on a right to public dissent from the ordinary Magisterium; the in­dissolubility of consummated sacramental marriage; abortion; eut­hanasia; masturbation; artificial contraception; premarital intercourse; and homosexual acts." 
Charles E. Rice 
guest column 
The comment of Bishop John M. D'Arcy of Fort Wayne-South Bend epitomizes the truth in labeling issue involved here. "It can never be the role 
• of a Catholic theologian," said Bishop D' Arcy, "to teach in opposition to what the Church teaches. People send their children to Catholic colleges and uni­versities to receive Catholic teaching. If a theologian calls himself or herself Catholic, and then teaches in opposition to the Church, the Church has not only the right, but indeed the obligation, to declare that that particular theologian cannot be considered a Catholic theo­logian because he is not only probing, analyzing and questioning, but claim­ing that in these areas the Catholic Church is wrong and I am right." The past presidents of the Catholic Theological Society of America and the Catholic Theology Society said in March, "If Fr. Curran's views on the various issues mentioned in the letter are so incompatible with Catholic teaching that he must be declared no longer a Catholic theologian, justice and fairness would dictate that other Catholic theologians who hold similar views should be treated in exactly the same fashion." However, unlike the Catholic University of America, Notre Dame, Georgetown, etc., are legally secular corporations with no juridical ties to the Church. It is likely that the sanction available to the Church with respect to a professor at such a univer­sity will be limited to a declaration that the professor is mislabelling himself by 
Do 

claiming to be a Catholic theologian. 
Incidentally, the right claimed on be­half of Fr. Curran, "to dissent from noninfallible Church teaching" does not exist. It could be argued that at least some of the teachings involved in the Curran case are infallible under the principles stated in the Second Vatican Council's Dogmatic Constitution on the Church (No. 25). Whether or not the teachings contradicted by Fr. Curran are technically infallible, however, there is no warrant for dissent from them. As Cardinal Ratzinger sum­marized the provisions of No. 25 of the Constitution and of Canon 752 of the Code of Canon Law, "the faithful must accept not only the infallible Magis­terium; they are to give the religious submission of intellect and will to the teaching which the Supreme Pontiff or the college of bishops enunciate on faith or morals when they exercise the aut­hentic Magisterium -even if they do not intend to proclaim it with a defini­tive act." The fact that the "dissenter" is a professor gives him no special privileges. If a theologian at a Catholic university cannot bring himself to ac­cept the teaching of the Popes and Councils, he ought to have the candor at least to present himself as a generic, rather than a Catholic theologian. 
Apart from the individual theologian, when an institution solicits money on the ground that it is a "Catholic univer­sity," it represents that it is Catholic as the term is understood by the govern­ing body of that religion and especially by the Pope, the only person in the world with the legal and moral author­ity to give conclusive definition to that term. The Pope has stressed, for exam­ple in his October 7, 1979, address in Washington, D.C., the duty of fidelity to the Magisterium which is incumbent on all Catholic universities and their theology teachers, with or without "juridical links to the Holy See." 
The Catholic university, of course, does not undertake to guarantee the spiritual formation of its students. But the university's claim to be Catholic in­volves an implicit assurance at least that the students will have a predic­table opportunity to study the Catholic Faith as that Faith is taught by the Popes and Councils. Those students are entitled to assurance that they will have a chance to study theological subjects with a professor who agrees with the Church or is at least willing and able to present the teachings of the Church favorably as well as accurately. If not, whatever they learn of those matters may be filtered through the distorting lens of a professor whose teaching will be affected by his own dissent, agnos­ticism, etc. What is most regrettable in such situatiqns is the missed opportu­nity to provide the students with the intellectual background that would enable them to make intelligent choices in matters of faith and morals for the governance of their own lives. 
If the parents of an entering fresh­man paid top dollar for a brand new Mercedes automobile and then dis­covered that what was under the hood was not a Mercedes engine but an old Ford Model T motor, they would have a remedy at law based on the violation of the principle of truth in labeling, whe­ther the switch were innocent or fraudulent. Those parents and students have a moral right to protection against a similar switch with respect to educa­tion. The professor who presents, as authentically Catholic, positions which contradict the Magisterium is merely 
P.O.BoxQ 
Giving crowd technical raises other questions 
Dear Editor: 
It was unfortunate when the Notre Dame student body was charged with a technical foul at the end of Sunday's game against North Carolina. I realize that what we did was wrong. We deserved to be punished. 
But that was our first foul as a student body this season, and it raises a few questions regarding crowd fouls. After the foul was called during Sunday's game, were we all supposed to raise a hand to let the scorer's table know that the foul was on us? What if we commit 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students, and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly con­troversial, please send the quote to the View­
point Department, Dame, In 46556. Trudeau 
HI! JT5PAY FORAN UP­
320NTH8 OAT&ON GOP'S 
ORAL-R08EI<T5 
applying to education the commercial standards of the Mercedes dealer who puts the Model Tengine under the hood. 
If a Catholic university cannot assure its students a chance to study the Cath­olic Faith as the Vicar of Christ intends it to be studied, let it drop the "Cat­holic" from its solicitations and let it acknowledge that, however good it may be in other respects, it is not Catholic in the most important sense in which that term is used. 
It ought to be possible at least for Notre Dame and St. Mary's to under­take, beginning with the next academic year, that students will have available at every level identifiable courses in which the Catholic heritage will be studied with professors who accept it as understood by the Popes and Coun­cils. Only then will the students have a fair opportunity to make intelligent judgments in that matter. 
Charles Rice is a Professor of Law. 
P.O.Box Q, Notre 
Quote of the day 
"Not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced." 
James Baldwin 
five crowd fouls in one game? Does this mean the whole crowd has to leave the arena before the referee will resume play? (Are NBA crowds allowed six fouls?) What if our team is losing in the closing minutes of a game -can the crowd intentionally foul a poor free­throw shooter on the opposing team? And finally, is there any way we can take a charge? 
Again, I am not questioning the call. It was clearly a foul on us. But for fu­ture reference, I feel that these ques­tions need to be addressed before the student body finds itself being asked to leave the arena. 
Jack Lee Grace Hall 
Ihe ObserYer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the vle""s of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt 
opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 
Accent 
Service Before a Career 
CARLA BARROS features writer 
I 
maglne what It would be 
like to start your life over again, to re-enter the world with a new perspective on life and an Increased sensitivity toward your surroundings. Lou Nanni and Kim Krasavec, both 1984 graduates of Notre Dame, recently returned from a two and one-half year committment with the Holy Cross Associates in Santiago, Chile. The experi­ence has changed their lives. 
"I feel like we have been given new eyes and a new mind and a new mouth," said Kim. 
Their experience of actively sharing In the lives of an poor the Chilean poor, has given Lou and Kim a deeper sense of Christian faith as a guiding force In their lives. 
"I wanted a formative experi­ence," said Lou of his decision to join HCA, "I wanted to grow In my faith In God and to open myself up to an experience that would be challenging and new." Both Lou and Kim wanted to live and minister In a Christian community to better prepare themselves for life after college. 
"You realize that being a stu­dent In a university In the Unites States, that you are part of a privileged class. I had to go (to Chile) In order to begin to understand what was going on In the rest of the world, MLou said. 
Lou and Kim joined the other Holy Cross Associates In 
Recent Grads Return From Work In Chile 
Immersing themselves In the 
life ofa poverty stricken 
Chilean parish. "You learn the 
first year that the most valu­
able thing we do Is to love the 
people. ·u·s Chrlstaln tes­
timony." noted Kim. 
Another rewarding aspect of 
being a Holy Cross Associate Is 
the experience of communal of 
communal living. " You learn 
to love people that . you don't 
necessarily like, " said Kim. 
Lou added,"It was Incredible, 
the love and mutual respect we 
came to feel for one another." 
Kim compared the commu­
nity to an image of the Body of 
Christ. Each member of the 
community, like each part of 
the body, contributed to the 
healthy functioning of the 
whole. 
The Associate community In 
Chile Is Involved In many areas 
of service. Lou taught English 
at a school in the poblacion, or 
shanty town, of Andacollo, and 
he also taught at St. George's 
College, a school for the elite 
class of Santiago. 

In addition, his ministry In­cluded weekly visits to women Nanni and Krasavec with a Chilean Family 

Lou Nanni with some young friends 
Jane Plt:r 
Jane Pltz 
political prisoners. "The trauma that these people carry with them is Incredible," Lou said. Most of the women had been routinely tortured by the CNI (Chilean Intelligence), and yet their srtength was evident In the uncritical love they showed to their visitors. The women left Lou with a plaque that 
read:"You have come to know women who have consciences as fertile as their wombs." 
Kim also taught English at the Coleglo Andacollo. She later worked with the Vicariate for Youth Ministry. Here Kim was Involved In a popular edu­cation program In which the students and teachers learned together. "We all have some knowledge and we all lack some knowledge," she said. 
"The challenge of Christianity is to love and share in the suf­ferings of those beyond our family and close friends and I think that ts· one of the founda­tions of this program," com­mented Lou. 
Kim met one Chilean man who embodied this spirit of Christian giving. He was stand­Ing In front of his one room hut when a relief group stopped to ask for contibutions to aid the victims of a recent earthquake."It was cold out­side," Kim recalled, "and the man took the shirt off of his back and gave It to us, saying. 'They need It more than I do."' She added, "It makes you reevaluate everything all over again." 
Kim and Lou are currently Involved In the Transition phase of the Holy Cross As­sociates' program. Part of their ministry Includes sharing their Chilean experience with people back In the United States. They are scheduled to address the Notre Dame community tonight at 7 p.m.• In the CSC. and Sun­day, February 8, at 4 p.m. The presentations will reflect on the value of participating In any Christian ministry, through their particular experience In Chile. 
What Is next for Kim and Lou? Lou will be at Notre Dame this semester, working at the Kellogg Institute and asslssting Fr. Malloy, while taking graduate courses In Govern­ment. Though Kim has a lot of questions about the future, she Is sure of one thing; "I want to integrate Chile Into everyday of my life."


Do the South Bend Shuffle•..• 
Tuesday, February 3, 1987-page 6 -7 
ND Hunger Clean-Up To Begin 
LIZ DURKIN  The Nation Wide Hunger  they need done. The money  publicity. Our first meeting will  campus Itself. This Is done  
features writer  Clean-up Is organized by the  will be raised In two ways.  be Thursday, February 5th at  through sponsoring movies  
National Student Campaign  First, we're going to contact  6:.30 p.m. at the esc.  and lectures on development  
Reducing hunger while  Against Hunger, along with the  local businesses and request  ODN Is a nation wide group  Issues, and Its m~r event:  
cleaning up parts of South  USA for Afrlcatlands Across  donations of money, clean up  with branches on campuses all  Third World Awareness Week.  
Bend--these are the goals of  America Organization, and will  tools, or refreshments and In- over the country. It started at  from Feb. 8-15.  
the Nation-Wide Hunger Clean- be sponsored at NOOMC by  centlves for the workers.  Notre Dame last year. ODN has  
up sponsored at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's by the Over­seas Development Network.  Overseas Development Net­work. The Hunger Clean Up recruits  Second, each student will try and raise their own sponsors who will pledge a certain  two basic functions. First to help raise funds for  ODN  
On Saturday, April I I. I987,  both college and high school  amount per hour. The profits  development projects In the  
hunger clean-ups across the  students to do work on clean- will be divided In half between  third world. A list of projects Is  
country will bring together stu­ up projects In South Bend. We  needy organizations In South  provided by the national office.  Third World  
dents, community organlza­tlons, and residents who will  will be· contacting local not-for­pront organizations In order to  Bend and the hungry In other parts of the world.  Projects are devised on the basis of what the local people  Awareness Week  
work directly to beautify a part  find work sites. Types ofjobs  The ND Hunger Clean-up has  think they need, not on what a  
of their city and raise funds to  Including painting. cleaning up  just begun to organize. We  group of "experts" tell them  Feb.8-1S  
benent the hungry In their  parks and playgrounds, and  need students to help on either  they need.  
community, and hunger  working In food pantries. Basi­ recruitment fundralslng.  The second function of ODN  
stricken countries overseas.  cally, whatever people think  choosing work sites, and  is to raise awareness on the ND 

·----------------------------------------------------------------------..--------------------------­A Guide To Student Services(Clip & Save) 
In one calendar day or more good Idea to get things order to receive any aid, Is to accepting resumes. Available
MIKE RESTLE" than 3 In a 24-hour period). squared away before then. (2) complete and submit a Finan­too In the office Is a packet on
features writer However, It Is recommended If you already plan to live with cial Aid Form (available In the how to draw up a resume, as 
re you angry? Frustrated? that the student try to work out friends In a new dorm, they all office) by Febrary 28 at the well as counselors to go over
A Confused? Running out of conflicts with his professor If move to the bottom of the list very latest. the finished product with you. 
people to turn to? Please don't possible, to save all the red­for picks. That's just the way It The Financial Aid office Is The C&P library also has re­
despair. There Is someone who tape hassle. 
goes. also the place to start If you're sources available for students can help. There are many of­
looking for a job on campus. to do research on their own. flees on campus designed to 
Even If you haven't filed an FAF handle students' questions and 
or have filed but showed no Morrissey Loan fund problems concerning any num­
need, you can still get a job on ber of different situations that 
campus. Just make an appoint­We move now over to LaFor­ment to get an HexceptlonH slip, tune, upstairs on the second might arise. The problem Is 
that many students are unclear 
which wfll allow you to work. floor In the Student Govern­as to where to go with a certain 
Usually, the only jobs available ment area, In the Treasurer's problem or unaware as to what for non-need students will be office. The Morrissey Loan services actually are available In food service (dining halls, Fund Is open Monday -Friday, to help. So, In keeping with the 
the Huddle, Oak Room) be­I 1 :.30-12:.30, and was set up as spirit of service. I have com­
cause the students who have a short-term, low-Interest loan piled here a list of offices, at­
demonstrated financial need fund for students. Any student tempting to clarify the func­are given first priority on avail­can borrow $20-200 (In $5 tions of each as they pertain to 
able jobs, naturally, so the Increments) for thirty days, at us, the students. 
Hbette~ jobs are taken quickly. which point a I% Interest However, If a non-food service charge will be assessed. If pay­Office of the Registrar job Is unfllled at that time, a ment of a loan Is late, there non-need person can take the will be a ten-cent per day Located In the Administration 
job. Just go Into the office, or charge added on, and Building In room 215, the the Student Employment office reasonable attempts to reach Registrar can help with just In room 109, and ask. No time the person will be made. If, 
about anything. 
Is too late to find a job. New however, payment Is still not 
If you have any questions ones are always coming ln. made within ten days, the about your grades or tran­whole amount will be turned script this Is the place to Students' Accounts over to Students' Accounts, a 
come. There Is a nominal 
$I0 charge will be added, and $2.00 charge for every tran­
Going down three floors to the balance will be added to script ordered, and you should the ground level of the Ad. the tuition bill. At this point allow three days to properly Bldg., on our left In room 102 the student will lose all future process and check each re­Also, If you want to officially Student Residences also pro­Is the Office of Students' Ac­borrowing prlvlledges at the quest. Requests for transcripts change anything at all---your vides help In finding housing counts. Although the functions Fund. Keep In mind also that must be made In person at the college, ml'\Jor, permanent or off-campus. Available In the of this office are mainly admin­there Is a one-day walt for ap­office or In writing by mall; no off-campus address, name, office are house and apartment Istrative, If a student has any proval of loan requests. Come telephone requests will be etc.---the Registrar Is the first listings, terms available (e.g., problems with tuition pay­In Monday and you've got 200 honored. Remember that the place to go to get It taken care furnished, pay own heat), ments, bills, or fines, this Is bucks on Tuesday! busiest time for these requests of. maps, etc. The best time to the place to get It all settled. 
Is after the end of each semes­The Registrar Is also the start looking Is the beginning Also, a variety of different Lost and found ter. place to go for all of your of the first semester prior to off-campus jobs are posted In good-student Insurance the one you plan to move off the glass case outside the Fin­Located behind the Informa­If you lose your ID, the benefits, VA benefit certifica­(the earlier the better for ancial. Aid office and on the tion desk In LaFortune, this Registrar Is the place to come tion, and full-time student cer­houses). The University Is not bulletin board outside, under­office does just what you think to get It replaced. The charge tification for payment deferrals Involved at all In any part of neath the steps. It does. If you've found some­for a new card Is $1 0, and you on student loans. There Is also the process--everything Is be­thing that Isn't yours or lost 
will be Issued a Valldlne to use a Notary Public In the office to tween you and your landlord. career and Placement something that Is, then come while the new lD Is being notarize all your offlcjal docu­here to get It taken care of. made, a process which takes ments. Financial Aid Office This office Is located In the This Is also the place to 
about two weeks. If you hap­basement of the Memorial LI­come If, for whatever reason, pen to find your old lD during Student Residences And across the hall, In room brary. Although Its main func­your prof doesn't accept your this period, continue to use the I 03, we find the Financial Aid tion Is to assist seniors and reasons for missing that exam. Valldlne and take the old lD This office Is above the office. The primary purpose of grad students, It Is also there Plead your case here and see If back to the Registrar. They will Registrar In room 3I I. If you this office Is to help students to help juniors and sop­It makes any difference. If they keep It on file there, so that In want to switch dorms for next find ways to finance their edu­homores (In some cases) find can't help you here, then you're the event that you lose your year or at the end of fall se­cation through scholarships, summer Internships and other out of luck. new ID, they will only have to mester, you need to pick up a grants, loans, and employ­employment opportunities. Office hours are 8-I 2, I -5, revalidate your old one, saving form here. When you find a ment. If you are curious as to The office has listings of all Monday-Friday. you the $I 0 processing fee. dorm with an opening and the what options are available to the companies that will be In­So there you have lt. A list 
The Registrar also makes out new rector signs the form, you (even If you are an up­terviewing on campus and a (although surely Incomplete) of the departmental and final you're all set. There are a perclassman), call and make an brief description of the people all the administration officials exam schedules and handles couple of key things to remem­appointment to talk with a they are looking for. There Is and offlces just waiting to serve any conflicts a student might ber: (I) Room picks for next counselor. The most Important also a list of companies which you. You are not alone. Feel encounter (more than 2 exams fall are May I, so It would be a thing to remember, however, In are not Interviewing but are better now? 

Business 
Tuesday, February 3, 1987-page 8 
West German auto manufacturers react to declining dollar 
By YORK DAMM Business writer 
A dropping dollar is expected to give the U.S. economy a major push to recover from its huge $170 billion deficit in 1986. But how far does the dollar have to decline so that a posi­tive effect on the economy will take place? 
Since Feb. 26, 1985, when the dollar reached its peak in West Germany at 3.47 marks, the dollar has declined steadily to 
1.84 marks as of last Friday. Economists have said they believe that a 40 percent drop of the dollar against the Ger­man mark and against the Japanese yen has to occur to support the efforts of the ad­ministration to lower the trade deficit significantly. 
A declining dollar is expected to make imports so expensive that the consumer will turn to products that are made in America. Although import prices went up 9 percent during 1986 and the December trade deficit went down slightly, many companies already see too much damage done to their business by the strength of the dollar in recent years. 
. Importers have reacted quickly to the changing value of the dollar, as they strike back by offering rebates and discounts for periods of months to protect their hold on the U.S. markets. For example, West German manufacturers such as Bayerische Motorenwerke AG <BMW), Mercedes Benz and Volkswagen AG would rather accept cuts in their prof­its than a loss in their share of the U.S. car market. Surpris­ingly, both BMW chairman Eberhar-d von Kuenheim and Mercedes Benz chairman Werner Breitschwerdt are op­timistic for 1987. BMW, selling 90,000 units in the United States annually and being the number 16 car producer in the world, relies on its "image of an ac­cepted and renowned luxury­car maker," as von Kuenheim pointed out in an interview with Business Week. 
Mercedes Benz, being the number 15 car producer in the world, relies on a high quality and high performance basis like that of BMW. In fact, the latest model of BMW, the 735i and the Mercedes Benz luxury automobile, the 560 SEL are tough competitors on both the German and the international markets. 
A third West German car­maker, the Volkswagen AG, producer of the Golf GTI, Jetta and the Audi 5000 S expects its sales to be at the same level as in 1986. Consumer complaints about an "acceleration prob­lem" caused losses last year, which Volkswagen hopes to compensate for in 1987. 
Volkswagen's chairman stressed the fact that the prob­lem with the 5000 S has been resolved and estimates a slight improvement in sales for Volkswagen AG worldwide. 
In Japan, a rising yen has caused many car producers to raise prices on their models by an average of $1,300 last year. Further increases are very likely for this year ac:;cording to industry experts. However, Japan's share of the U.S. trade deficit, an estimated $52.6 bil­lion in 1986, is calculated to drop only marginally by $400 million in 1987. Self-imposed limits on exports by the Japanese car makers are not likely to help the trade deficit soon, because they have oc­curred only in insignificant numbers so far. Japan, being the number three export country (the United States was surpassed for the number one spot by West Germany in the period of Jan.-Oct. 1986) achieved a huge trade surplus in 1986, which amounted to $91.8 billion. Given this fact, many have said it is clear that the Japanese are eager to main­tain this surplus. They will do so by renovating their produc­tion facilities throughout 1987 to come out even stronger at the beginning of 1988, at the 
latest in 1989. 
General Motors and Ford, combining for a total of $13.5 million in car sales per year have to stay alert if they want to avoid a flooding of the U.S. market as has occurred in pre­vious years. 
The United States, having trade connections to more than 130 countries in the world, is going through rough economic times at the moment, which are worsened considerably by its trade partners in Japan and Western Europe. A trade war was just narrowly averted recently, when negotiations resulted in an agreement on 
U.S. grain exports to Europe. Only 24 hours later, an ul­timatum by the United States would have expired which would have led to 200 percent increases in the prices of prod­ucts of the Common Market, such as French cognac, Dutch cheese or British Wiskey. In return. the Common Market threatened to impose high taxes on U.S. agricutural prod­ucts. Although a trade war was avoided, tensions remain in in­ternational trade concerning equal access to all markets, without restricting taxes or regulations anywhere. Until a agreement can be agreed on, the United States will continue to have a negative trade bal­ance. 
Cost-conscious advertisers shorten TV commercials 
In case you were wondering why you've been seeing more commercials while watching less TV lately, its not because the networks are selling more advertising. The reason: The spots are shrinking. 
Growing numbers of cost-conscious advertisers have been favoring 15-second commercials over the traditional 30-second spots for the last two years. This strategy, for instance, was the only one avail­able for a company to spend less than $500,000 to remind Super Bowl viewers about its product. 
For the large advertisers, the question comes down to this: Do we want to form an impression or are we satisfied with giving our customers a simple reminder? 
Still, problems arise when too many short spots run in a row. John Goodchild of the Weightman agency feels that viewers get annoyed when there are eight ads in one break. Even Manning admits "there's a real danger of overloading 15's with un­necessary details and too many selling points." 
Polaroid Corp. has decided to change its spots 

Alex VonderHaar 
Business Bits 
from time to time. Normally, it uses longer ads for television, but "15's are a very nice way to remind people of the message in our longer commercials." Their abbreviated ads touting their Spectra camera led to impressive sales results at Christmastime. 
Currently, about 20 percent of the 5300 weekly network ads last fifteen seconds, but that share is rising. Last fall, Gillette introduced Foamy shave cream for sensitive skin. Although most marketers recommend against using brief spots for product introductions, Gillette's effort has worked so far. The spots using footage of Abbott and Costello slap­ping each other took advantage of Foamy's estab­lished name. 
• 
Have you ever driven past a small inn called "Patel's Motel?" Patel is the name that comes from a clan of landowners in the west-coast Indian state of Gujarat. 
Indian immigrants have seen a great deal of suc­cess in the U.S., but most Americans still associate them with cheaper sleepers. In fact, The Wall Street Journal cited a study indicating that 28 percent of the 54,000 hotels in this country are Indian-owned. They dominate the smaller inns, for example, in California and throughout the South. 
Discrimination limited their progress. As late as 1935, businessmen in the West posted billboards reading, "No jobs for Japs or Hindus." Relaxation of immigration rules ushered in a new age after 1965 as more Asians were allowed to enter the United States. Indian immigrants now number more than half a million with 500 more arriving each week. 
Government eases regional phone company rules 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Justice Department proposed Monday that the seven regional Bell companies be turned loose to compete in making telephones and offering information ser­vices, but it disappointed their desires to enter a key part of the long-distance market. 
In a 210-page filing to U.S. District Judge Harold Greene, the department said competi­tion and changing regulation in the industry since the breakup of the Bell system three years ago have ended the need for most of the restrictions on the regional companies. 
Further, the department's antitrust division said, changes were needed to bring to consu­mers more sophisticated equipment and new electronic information services--such as message storing and electronic mail--already offered to consu­mers in other countries. 
Here For The Game • • • The Weekend • • • The Day? Running Short of Cash? 
Ifyou have a CIRRUS-linked bank card, you don't have a problem! 1st Source Bank 
says, ''Welcome,'' and invites you to any ofour 17 conveniently located Resource 
Centers, where you can get the cash you need! Three are located within a mile and a 
halfofthe Notre Dame Campus: 
1. 
Roseland-52990 U.S. 31 N. at Cleveland 

2. 
St. Mary's College-Haggar College Center 

3. 
Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. at Ironwood 


Resource and CIRRUS ... ~ long on convenience when you're short on cash! ~.source CIRRUS -.Bank 
-F.O.I.C 

-
The Observer Tuesday, February 3, 1987 =page 9 
Sports Briefs 
Whoever has the game ball from the Notre Dame-North Carolina basketball game is requested to return it in exchange for another game ball. It is of the utmost importance that the ball is returned to the team. The person who has it is requested to call the basketball office at 239-6225 or the basketball manager at 239-5356. ­
The Observer 
Rod Strickland scored 18 points and Stanley Brundy added 16 Monday night as fifth-ranked DePaul rolled to an 84-62 college basketball victory over North Carolina State. -Associated Press 
Bookstore Basketball XVI applications for assistant commissioner are still available at the secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Anyone interested in applying should fill out an application by Thursday. For more information contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Ob­server 
NVA Cross-Country Moonlighter skiing takes place tonight from 7-9 on Burke Memorial Golf Course. There are rentals available at Rockne Golf Shop and free hot chocolate will be served. Further information may be obtained from the NVA. -The Observer 
A broomball tourney sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 9-15 at Stepan Fiefds. Sign-ups run through to­morrow from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m. at the SAB office. The entry fee is $3 for a team of five persons. For more infor­mation contact Mike 0155) or Christian (1300).-The Ob­server 
Stars & Stripes moved to within one race of bringing the America's Cup home, pulling away to a 3-0 lead over Kookaburra III Monday. The U.S. boat beat the Australian boat easily in the moderate winds the Aussies had wanted. The end of the best-of-seven series could come in the next race to be held Wednesday. -Associated Press 
North Carolina, which had returned to the No. 1 spot for one week, was knocked from the perch after suf­fering a 60-58 defeat at Notre Dame. And Nevada-Las Vegas, which had been No. 1 for six weeks earlier in the season, returned to the top of The Associated Press' college basketball poll Monday after a two-week hiatus. ­
Associated Press 
A cross-country ski race sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 15 at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Sign-ups run today through Friday in the SAB office, second floor of LaFortune. Rentals are available. -The Observer 
The ND women's varsity cross-country team will have a mandatory meeting Thursday at 5:30 
p.m. at room 127 of the ACC. -The Observer 
The ND Martial Arts Institute is now open for membership in the spring semester. The Institute ofers lessons in TaeKwonDo and JiuJitsu. Classes are held on Fridays, 4 to 6 p.m. and Sundays, 6:30 to 8:30p.m. at room 219 Rockne. For more information contact Jim Hoff (2043) or Brian Johns (1838). -The Observer 
Clubs 
continuedfrom page 12 
After winning seven matches in one week, including one which featured perhaps the team's best comeback ever, the Men's Volleyball Club fi­nally ran out of gas, losing to Bowling Green in the semi­finals of a 15-team tournament at Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Before the tournament, the Irish defeated Grand Valley State, 15-10, 15-8, 15-11, and then came from two games behind to beat Miami (Ohio), 12-15,11­15, 15-8, 15-1, 15-11. It was the first time in at least three years that Notre Dame had come from two games down to win a match. 
"Against Miami of Ohio, everyone played really well. The last three games we really came together as a team," said Club President John Sullivan. "We had a lot of fan support, and they were really behind us the whole way. 
The Irish will be back at home in the ACC Pit to face Wisconsin this Saturday at 
12:30 p.m. 
The ObMrver Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObMrver Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
We've got the BALLS and the brooms. ao sign up today lor the WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEY at the SAB offices. 2nd nocr LaFortunelll 
PREGNANT? Happy, loving. financially secure couple eager to adopt Infant. Con­fidential, legal. Expenses pd. Call Meg collect 513-271-7526. 
IRISH GARDENS If you are on financial aldl work study and are In the market for making lots ol money, come by Irish Gardens and 1111 out an S application for delivery person. Must have own transportation. For appli· cation & mora Information come to Irish Gardens, basement of LaFortune. Appli­cations due Friday at 5:30. 
.......................................... Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277­7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: men's ring, silver with a red atone(garnet). If found please return to 1124 grace or call me. Rlcky--£3024 
LOST Heart-shaped Opal. It fell out of Its aettlng 1127, PLEASE If you find lt. call 277·8033. Sentimental value. REWARD$$$. 
I lost a small gold keychaln last Friday at Theodore's. It Is oval and the name "KIM" 11 engraved on one side. H you found ~-pleaae call 2845. I really want to get back Into my rooml 
REWARD for red .Japanese ntbk. You have my name ao call 2304 or leave It someplace dry where It'll be found. Going abroad-this Ia ESSENTIAL 
FOUND: B-Ball Tlx aher Marquatte game 
-near GroHoSt Mary's Leke call 2885 to 
Identify and claim 
.................................... .....• 
Loa!-Thursday at South Dining Hall. A 
light blue backpack containing' light blue 
blnder,management text,and H.P. 1tC 
ceJc. If found call Bob 233-1292. 
LOST: Rocm Keya(318) & others on ring with a charm which has "SAJ" on front. If found call Scott 1609 
LOST:a gold link bracelet last Thursday at the b-bsll game. Sr. bar, or Bridget's. Great aentlmental value. If found plaase call Melissa at 272-2478. 
LOST: BLACK COOPER HOCKEY GLOVE AT ACC ON THURSDAY NIGHT BEFORE ALUMNI-SORIN GAME. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 287-8622. REWARD OFFERED. 
FOUND: one pair of eyeglasses In the Engineering Auditorium Friday mght aher tha mov1es. Call Chas, x1786 
FOUND: Gold ring In Howard Saturday night Jan. 24. Call Maraya 2698 to iden­tify. 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-800-237-2061 
Students needed to help save lives. Watch T.V. and earn extra money . New donors or former donors who haven't donated plasma In the last 30 days will be paid $11 .00 following Initial or return donation. Bring this ad to: American Plasma, 515 Llncolnway West, S. Bend. 5 blocks west of Burger King on US 201 Llncolnway West. Phone 234-6010. Open Tues.. Wed., Fri., and Sat. 
HIRING PART TIME HELP Pizza Hut wants drivers with own car and ln­surance.Call277-2862 or stop by 138112 Dixie Way No. In Roseland. 
Campus travel representatives needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Earn money, free travel, and outstsndlng marketing experience. Call Inter-Campus Programs at 1·800·433·7747 for details and Information mailer. 
RIDE NEEDED: MIAMI, OH. FEB. 6·8. CALL ROB ·1627. 
NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR EASTER. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL JACK x1686 or DAN x1719 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND AND WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381· 4224 
T eachlng Asst.-Grad Student earn up to $8.00011ch0ol year In your spare time managing on-campus marketing pro­grams for Fortune 500 Companies. Write to: Campus Dlmenslon&2000 Market Street-11th FV Philadelphia, PA 19103· Ann: Gene Liechty or call 800·592-2121 
FOR SALE 
Is H True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facta tcdayl Call 1·312-742·1142, Ext. 7316. 
AIRLINE TIX: OHARE-LAX 13MAR· 22MAR MUST SELL-$280 OR BEST OF­FER BY 18FEB. CALL LIZ EHRET 4­5498 ANYTIME 
................................................................ 
MAC for Sale II Great Deel On Complete System Under $1,000 I Call1310 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE: '88 Bertone x 1 9 convertible. Alpine Stereo. Plrelll tires. 4500 miles. $9900. Call 255·2130. 
TICKETS 
Need Tlcketa Daaparately to beth tha North Carolina and Duka baaketblll gamea. Elthar atudant or GA'a. Call Ertc at 272·8123. 
NEED TWO TICKETS FOR DUKE GAME CALL DIANE 284 4373 
I need a DUKE student ticket or GA. Call Mary at 2750. 
I have $, but do not have 2 DePaul GAs. Could you help me achieve equi­leeeebrium? Please call Bill x1460. 
NEED 2 DUKE TIXI $$$$$ CLARE x2916 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FEB. 15 DUKE GAME. CALL KATHY 284-5310 
Need 3 Duke tlx. call Denise £4684 
I NEED 2 DUKE TIX (EITHER GA OR STU.) SISTERS ARE COMING OUT FOR THE WEEKENDII CALL TOM AT X-4605 
WANTED: Duke GA's & STU TIX, ext. 2994 Loretta 
NEED 2 OR 4 DUKE GA'S CALL KEVIN 2165 
Need 2 Duke GA'sll Call Tom £ 4772 
I NEED 2 DUKE GA'S: PAUL 2364 
TWO GA'S NEEDED FOR WED NIGHT'S GAME FOR MY PARENTS. HELP ME OUT, CALL 3120. 
4 SENIORS ROADTRIPPING TO KANSAS. NEED TIX. CALL 4334 OR 1499. 
NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. 
PERSONALS 
Part-time mktg. pos. on campus. Poten­tial to make $&hr. Call Cindy at 1-800­592-2121. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
LOSE WEIGHT FOREVER WITHOUT DIETING WORKSHOP. Beg. Feb 10 5 wks, 7:30-9:00. $45. Auna Preston PhD. 287-3315. 
If you are on financial aid-work study and are In the market for making lots of money, come by Irish Gardens and 1111 out an application for delivery person. Must have own transportation. For appli­cation and more Info, come to Irish Gar­dens, basement of LaFortune. Applica­tions due Friday at 5:30. 
WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEYIII aign up at SAB offices 2nd floor LaFortuna 
BROOMBALLIII BROOM BALLI II BROOM BALLI II BROOM BALLI II BROOM BALLI II 
AVOIO THE LAST MINUTE RUSH • STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIED& ANYTIME. 
The guy at the Huddle at 12:30 28 Jan 87 eating Ice cream and wearing a v -neck sweater. The girl In the NO cap would like to talk 10 you. Call 284 -4182. 
THE OFFICIAL FARLEY FUNGI LEAGUE WILL HOLD THE FIRST ICE CREAM SOCIAL IN HONOR OF "WHERE WOULD THIS GOOD EARTH BE WITHOUT THE KEENAN REVUE?" JOIN THE HAPPENIN' FUNGIIII 
LEWIS 4th FLOOR FROSH ARE DORM I 
SOPH. CHICAGO WEEKEND FRI, SAT & SUN, FEB 20-22 $60 Includes LODGING (Frl & Sat) and TRANSPORTATION SIGN-UP BY FEB 5 !IOPH CLASS OFFICE 
SOPH CLASS TUBING AT BENDIX WED, FEB 4, BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 8PM, $4 SIGN-UP BY TUES, FEB 3,1N SOPH CLASS OFFICE 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY MARK PROKOPIUS WE LOVE YOU 
Last Chance For Spring Break '871 South Padre Island, Daytona Beach, Steamboat Springs, Miami Beactv Fort Lauderdale, Mustang Island! Por\ Aransas, Galveston Island and Fort Wal­
ton Beach. Call Sunchase Tours Central Spring Break Toll Free Hot Line Today for last minute Information and reserva­tions 1·800·321·59111 
SORRY TOU LOSE CLOITISI NEW CATEGORY. 
Mel, Chris, Mike and the Rock. Thank you all for a great issue. You're the best. 
-DC 
Dupree, you thought you were going to get away without a word? Down with the Tar Heels. Let's go WoHies. 
SECOND CITY TOURING COMPANY Thura., Feb. 5th; 7 & 8:30 ahowa Tlx S4 aold at Waah. Hall tram 7-8 p.m. Feb.3&4 
BENDIX WOODS Thura. Fab. 12 Slgn·upa lhru Frtday In SAB olltcaa tlx $5 (Incl. bua) 
BROOMBALL SIGN·UPS WINTER FESTIVAL algn up thru Wed. In SAB offiCII from 11-4:30 13 par IMm 
APPLICATIONS FOR SAB POSmONS available on 2nd floor LaFortune application• dua Fab. 13; lor mora In­fo., atop by SAB olltca 
All CAPP Majors Thurs. Feb. 5 at 7:00pm Library Lounge CAPPAJPMA will have the first meeting of the new year. The meeting will feature a movie THE ONE MINUTE MANAGER ALL CAPP MAJORS ARE WELCOME 
PEMBROKE HARRINGTON YOU ARE A GOD 
just felt /Ike saying that. 
-Henrietta 
MIKE SWEENEY HERE'S YOUR AD. 
MICHELLE, YOUR ONCE. TWICE, THREE TIMES A LADY. THANKS FOR A GREAT EVENING. OB 
LADY Dl with your priorities In order you can do ANYTHING I good luck with your plans LOVE "HEAD, SHOULDERS, KNEES ... " 
p.s. Sat. was great, let's do It agalnl 
Pla811 coma to hair Prot. Duaaal­calebraled apeclallal In llbaratlon theology-dlacuaa the paraonal axpa­rtancaa that lad to hla conviction• abcut tha alruggle lor llbaratlon: Wednaday, Fab. 4 al10:00 P.M.In 341 O'Shag. Thlalalor all theology majora and lntaraated paraona. 
Jim Alley, Karen Webb and Chris Murphy, Welcome to the Sports Department. 
HELP NEED RIDE TO PURDUE WKEND 2-6 CALL LISA £2170. 
Happy Birthday, a day late. to Mark Kershner. Girls, please, please stop by 408 Pangbom or call 2339 to wish this young Innocent a happy 22nd. 
HELPI I had a rough night last Thursday and lost a gold link bracelet either at Sr. bar or Bridget's. Great sentlmentsl value. If found please call Melissa ~72-24 78. 
RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS Very, very cheap. Best deal In town. If Roy Orbiscn can wear 'em, sc can you. Call Tim at £1801. 
TO DONNA DEKING: HAPPY BIRTHDAY, WE LOVE YOUI FROM YOUR 14 GUYS AND "THE QUINr 
THANKS TO CATH,DOR,ROSEMARY,THERESA AND DANA FOR ALL YOUR SUPPORT THESE PAST 2 WEEKS. I WOULDN'T HAVE MADE IT WITHOUT YOU-TERRI 
••• TO THE VERY ATTRACTIVE, SLENDER, BRUNETTE WITH THE RED SKI JACKET WHOSE EYES CAME INTO CONTACT WITH MINE A FEW TIMES SATURDAY AFTERNOON IN THE BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE. I REGRET NOT TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE OPPORTUNITY TO MEET YOU, BUT HOPE IT'S NOT TOO LATE. PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL AT x4000. 
To All My Friends M Fourth Floor P.E. Saturday Night: Surprised? I Sure Wasl Thanksl Love Y'alll GNDS 
3rd Degree, we did It 
Greg Kohs and Robert Jones, the clutch photographers. Good shOts guys. Thanks. 
-OC 
V ·I'm scrry for my lack of trust. I promise that I'll try my best to work at the things we talked about. Thanks for your forgive­ness. 
HAIRCUTS $4$4 call amy 284-5032 
Famed author and spaaker -FATHER JOHN POWELL. S.J. ·will spaak on "LIFE, THE GREATEST GIFr NO LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 7:30 WEDNESDAY, FEB 4 ALL ARE WELCOME -SPONSORED BY N[)SMC RIGHT TO LIFE 
TOM-JUST RELAX AND EAT YOUR MACHO TACOI 
KISS YOUR DEMPSTER GOOD-BYEI HAPPY 21st SHERRY KILL LOVE.DUTCH,SALL Y,KAREN,CATHY, 
MEGAN,LISA 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHY GRIFFITH THE BIG 2-<l AT LAST ALTHOUGH YOU'RE STILL A MINOR YOU KNOW WE'LL HAVE A BLASTI 
TO THE GREAT LOOKING GUY WHO DROPPED HIS PANTS AT CORBY ST. ON SAT. NIGHT YOU'VE GOT GREAT LEGS, I'D LIKE TO MEET YOU. BE AT SMC LIBRARY,8PM TON IGHT.I'LL FIND YOUIII 
IRISH GARDENS If you are on financial aldl work study and are In the markat for making lots of money, coma by Irish Gardena and fill out an S application for delivery perscn. Must have own transportation. For appli­cation & more Information come to Irish Gardena, basement of LaFortune. Appll· cations due Friday at 5:30. 
LOST: Room Keys(318) & others on ring with a charm which has "SAJ" on front. If found call Scott 1609 
Pillows at close range? But NO tickling! 
Famed author and speaker -FATHeR JOHN POWELL, S.J. -will spaak on "LIFE, THE GREATEST GIFr NO LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 7:30 WEDNESDAY, FEB 4 ALL ARE WELCOME -SPONSORED BY N[)SMC RIGHT TO LIFE 
Hey Larry I Here's your TIMELY correc­tion: A past IBSue reported the existence of a University of Miami of Ohio. No such IChool exists. However, a Mr. Redakln of Granger, Indiana reports the existence of a Miami University. Pending verHica· lion, we regret this error . 
STUDENT STEALS KEG 
Part2ol5 
Pollee Captain Donnelly suspects the student stole the keg to full fill her "beer fix" for the week. Sources close to the euspect say her habit had grown to a keg a week. A close friend using the flctlous name Donna D. told reporters that her habit had "grown to the point where she couldn't afford It anymore." Uncon­firmed rumors say the suspect was contemplating selling her body to support her evergrowlng habit. 
Continued Wednesday 

Tuesday, February 3, 1987-page 10
The Observer 
Playing in Rivers' shadow does not concern Jackson 
By BOB KEMPER Sports Writer 
Playing in David Rivers' shadow. That is the future freshman guard Jamere Jack­son faced when he signed his national letter of intent last year. But that did not bother him when he chose Notre Dame. 
"It did not bother me at all that I would be playing in the shadow of David," says Jack­son. "In choosing a school, basket­ball was actually the third priority. Academics were first and a good social atmosphere was second. I am not looking at Notre Dame as a stepping stone to the NBA. Playing pro­fessional basketball is a longshot for any player." 
Those are pretty humble words for a player that averaged 12.9 points per game while earning four letters at Manuel High School in Peoria, Ill. Jackson also was named to several all-state teams and was nominated for McDonald's all­America team." 
"The most exciting thing about Notre Dame is that the Notre Dame family extends across the United States. Whe­ther we are playing in Philadel­phia or Los Angeles, people are always pulling for us. Wher­ever I go when I graduate, Notre Dame will be there." 
So far this season Jackson is averaging 10.1 minutes and 2.7 points per contest. 
"When Donald (Royal) was hurt and a couple of other players were getting off to a slow start I got to play a lot," he says. "Now it is back to what I had anticipated -waiting. My high school coach told me that those kids that wait and are pa­tient will get their chance. I am sure my chance will come." 
Head Coach Digger Phelps is high on his freshman guard. 
I 

Guard Jamere Jackson 
"Ja mere could be the surprise of the whole crop," says Phelps. "Once he im­proves his defensive concepts, he is going to be a factor. With the way we press and run, he is a real asset. In addition, his outside shooting could really be 
Swimmers edge Cleveland State; women roll over St. Bonaventure 
By KELLY TOWNSEND 
Sports Writer 
The goals were set, and the Irish swim teams met them in swimming action over the weekend. 
Friday both the men's and women's swim teams defeated Cleveland State, and the wo­men also won their meet against St. Bonaventure on Sat­urday. 
When Cleveland State faced the Irish in the inaugural meet at Rolfs Aquatic Center last season, the Vikings handed the Irish a loss. Friday they returned the favor in the only way possible, at Cleveland State's home pool. 
For the first half of the meet, the Irish trailed Cleveland by a seven point margin. But a first and second-place finish in the 200-yard IM pulled the men to within one, and the Irish took a one point lead after the one meter diving event. 
From that point the Irish kept the lead over Cleveland. They increased the spread to ten points after an impressive showing in the 200-yard breaststroke. Finally meet came down to the 400-yard freestyle relay, and Notre Dame emerged from the water with a 116-99 victory over Cleveland State. 
"This was a significant win for the men," said Head Coach Tim Welsh. "Last year Cleveland blew past us like we were just learning to swim. They stayed keyed up through­out the meet." 
The women also faced a tough Cleveland State women's team. Their meet was almost a mirror image of the men's, with the women taking an 11 point lead before the final relay and then adding seven points for a well-earned 143-125 vic­tory. 
"The women ran into a much harder team than we ex­pected," said Welsh. "We had to be real careful about how we swam, with St. Bonaventure still to face on Saturday." 
Despite a late arrival at St. Bonaventure that evening, the Irish were able to continue their strong swimming on Sat­urday. 
The women started the day off on the right foot with a 137­122 victory over St. Bonaven­ture. Mter leaping out to an 11­4 lead in the first event, the women kept St. Bonaventure in check. Although St. Bonaven­ture launched many comeback attempts, they could not catch the keyed-up Notre Dame swimmers. 
The men, hoping for another victory, were met in the water by a determined St. Bonaven­ture team. Undaunted, the Irish put fear into St. Bonaven­ture with solid performances throughout the meet. Despite a valiant effort, the Irish fell to St. Bonaventure, 117-95. 
Coach Welsh was more than pleased with the weekend's performances. 
"We obtained one of our ob­jectives," said Welsh. "We beat a team we lost to last year in grand style. It's a tribute to our guys that we were able to go neck-and-neck against two strong teams. 
"Not only did we win, but we were able to drop our times in all the key events. Once a couple people go faster, the whole team follows suit." 
Improvements in time will give the Irish an edge this weekend as they travel to Brad­ley University and then return home Saturday for a meet important in the three-point shot aspect of the game." 
While balancing the demands of being a varsity ath­lete and a successful student at the University of Notre Dame would be a bit overwhelming for most 17-year-olds, Jamere Jackson is taking it all in stride. The transition from high school to the collegiate ranks has been a smooth one for the Peoria na­tive. 
"The workload has not been that different from high school. What is different, though, is the need to budget time more ef­fectively." says the Dillon Hall resident. "The free time be­tween classes, combined with new distractions, can be a real temptation. What it comes down to is studying between classes instead of turning on the television and watching a soap opera. 
"Juggling time between bas­ketball and studying does not present that much pressure. Everyone knows Coach Phelps' position on academics. Ifa con­flict arises, basketball is second. We would never be penalized if we had to skip practice in order to study for a 
~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~ 
! 
J1.19{J01{_P.fll!l{'E9{rts' WE'E~9{'1J § 'DI9{9{'Et](Jt9{'1J rr'5l13L'E ~ 
t]('EfjIsP1{.5lrr'IO'J{S § Monday, J'e6ruary 2na ant£ ~ rruesday, J'e6ruary 3"{ § 
7-lOP.!M. 
t 


I 
You tfo not liave to sit witli tlie same peopfe for 6runcli and {inner. .!llssignments wif[6e aone raniom{y 6y a computer. (jroups of9 Preferrei. ~VJI&© <V~~~~~~~ 
test." 
When asked why he decided on Notre Dame over the likes of Wisconsin, Marquette and Northwestern, Jackson responds without hesitation. 
"I will answer that question like any sincere student­athlete. Notre Dame is the best of both worlds. On one hand, the TV exposure and athletic tradition are fantastic, while on the other hand, academics are of first priority." 
Academics have always been quite important to Jackson. He was permitted to skip a grade in elementary school and was ranked 13th in a graduating class of 208 in high school. He is presently enrolled in the Frershmen Year of Studies and I plans to major in business ad­ministration. 
"When we travelled to Maryland earlier this year to take on the Terrapins, Tracy Jackson, Duck Williams an Collis Jones showed up at ou practice session. They faced the same demands that we do, and now they dress in suits and ties. It was reassuring to see that all the hard work is well worth it." 

TIME TO PREPARE
The Waiting Is Over 
Ford Motor Company has announced an unbelievable program: 3.9% A.P.R. X 24 mos. 
5.9% A.P.R. X 36 mos. 
6.9% A.P.R. X 48 mos. 
9.9% A.P.R. X 60 mos. 
This Isn't All Though•.• With this fantastic rate you'll receive a ~600 rebate on manual transmissions or $300 rebate on automatics. _ 
This deal is good for not one but 
three of the Ford line: 
-E-SC-oR'fS 
-TEMPOS 
-MUSTANGS 
For Your Best Deal See Your Student Representative Scott Karchunas at Jordan Ford-Toyota-Volvo. 
KAPLAN 

STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD
Whatever it takes Jordan Ford-Toyota­
Volvo and I want to be your car and 
The worlds leading test prep organization 
truck company. 
CAU DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
JORDAN PORD 

against Kalamazoo and Ball State. 
THERE'S STILL 
-----~--------------~----------------~-.----------­
~-----------~----:--c-­
'JI['4(Jt~4tll~------------------------------------------------------·TU--e.sd•a•y,•F•e•b•ru.a.ry--3,•1•00•7•-•p•ag•e•1•1
' Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
... 11/i?l{. ' WHilT flO I f!NISH€/lll Mffil YO// 711/NK 1 'fHe' PIIINT!N&... 1!'11 CAUING /'IOI'ESnY. lfON£5r IT "SWIIN SONATII IN / OPINION.~: 
fJ{.IJ£. • 'TIIK6 II tJXJK 1 IT lif/5 'J J?e5Tf(OY€CJI '• f Be'/Tef( tf'leN 
Y' 771/W I. 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
TELL TH£11 A~ l'3CXJQ? 1!! 3,CXXJ!. 

VN5f[AKA8U rHING-W CtJ IN F(}~ ANYTIIIN'fr UMl£1? CO/.EJO£RING IH£ f?JVti?TY THAT Tf.U.. TH{f1 fvt GIJT KIPS 8tJR/l£~ OIJR IJORKING-CLA~. COU[(£ I?R SC/'flTII//16.' Ct1T IT. 

AN/1 QIXJTE ME ON /HAT••• 
" 
Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "Pluralism and Repression in China," by Prof. Peter Moody, ND., 131 Decio 
3:30 
-5:00p.m.: Computer Minicourses Lotus 1-2-3, Part I, 108 Computing Center, limit 7. And TSO (Time Sharing Option), 23 Computing Center, limit 30, to register, call Betty 239-5604 

3:30 
p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Model-Based Reasoning in Diagnostic Expert systems for Chemical Process Plants," by V. Venkatasubramanian, Intelligent Process Engineering Laboratory, Chern. Engr. Debt., Columbia University, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 


4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Effects of the Introduction of Cutthroat Trout on the Benthos of Lake Lenore, by Dr. Chris Luecke, Univ. of Wisconsin, Madison, Biological Sciences Auditorium 
6:00 p.m.: Presentatiorrteception for all Arts and Letters, Business, Science, and Engineering students includin~ CAPP, MIS 7 MCC students interested m career opportunities with The Travelers Insur­ance Company, Upper Lounge, University Club 7:00p.m.: SMC Varsity Swimming and Diving, SMC vs. Kalamazoo College, Rockne Pool 7:00-9:00p.m.: Second City Touring Com­pany, Washington Hall, admission $4 

7:00 p.m.: "Slides and Stories from Chile", by Lou Nanni & Kim Krasevac, 
esc 
7:30p.m.: Basketball NDW vs. Western Michigan, ACC 
7:30 
p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series, "Woodstock," 1970, color, 184 minutes, Mi­chael Wadleigh, Annenberg Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m.: Faculty Senate Meeting, 202 CCE 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Pork Tenderloin Saute Beef Stroghanof over Noodles Rolled Cheese Omelets with Matchstick Julienne Vegetables Tuna Submarine 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Chicken Baked Meatloaf with Gravy Vegetable Quiche Deli Bar · 

Women's Care Center I 
Pregnancy Help Center 
• 
F... Pregnancy T..W 

• 
FrM Contldentl81. lndlvldull ·I Couple CounMIIng ~~ 

• 
FrM Reternl To Support Agencies 

• 
Confidential c.. 

• 
Medical Relernl Service 

• 
Post Abortion Counseling 


234-0363 
417 N. SI· LOWS BLVD, 
•
*24 HOUR HELPLJE* 
One ...'-The
Notre.,.,. Cempus 
\ r~, Sill 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Vipers 5 Basil and 
rosemary 10 Construction piece 14 Spin floating lumber 15 Creme de Ia 
creme 16 Pianist Peter 17 Robert­18 Response to 
a sneeze 20 Stricken but 
not Ill 22 Triple crowns 23 Tum inside 
out 
241t Is one 25 Kinds 27 Last 31 "Midnight 
Cowboy" role 32 Secular 33 Goodbye 34 Psychic Geller 
35 More bizarre "1987 Tribune Media ServicH, Inc. 2/3/87
All Rights R8HfV8CI 
38 Poetic 
contraction 39 Small lump 4 Record covers 41 King beaters 5 Flight 42 Old-womanish 6 Choose 44 Summary 7 Underwriter's 46 Kilns concern 47 Latvian 8 Heat meas. 48 Motif 9 Court decision 49 Playground 10 Occupy 
Item 11 Bar drink 52 Supports 12 Diva's song 55 He writes 13 Decays 
summaries 19 Filth 57-tide 21 Antelope 58 Dies-24 Vacuums 59 Criticize 25 Drudgee 
aeverely 26-bird 60 Renaissance 27 Concerns 
patron family 28 Innate 61 Stem quality 62 Venetian 29 Useful old 
magistrates style 43 Party choice 50 Sp. river 63 Being 30 Slackens 45 Bose or 51 Jacob's twin 32 Lawful Bartlett 
brother DOWN 38 Toward the 46 Bermuda e.g. 52 Unaccompanied 1 Eve's son sunrise 48 "-were the 53 Pistols 2 Farm building 37 Evaluator days. .. " 54 Graf­3 Hindrance 40 Prop up 49 Declafe!l 58 Dove sound 


[--~---------------~~~ 
-l 
1 Tuesday, February 3, 1987-page 12
S~orts 

'Weak link' epeeists whip Tartars as fencers extend winning streaks 
By TERRY LYNCH wise this weekend, combining claim a 9-7 victory. Sports Writer for an impressive 31-5 overall Molly Sullivan, last year's record. NCAA champion, went 2-2 
Sometimes there's just so "Griffee's gone nuts with this during the meet. much verbal jousting a fencer weak-link thing, and it's just "Molly said she was dis­can take. And when the 'weak been great for the team," said tracted last weekend, and that link' stabs became unbearable DiCicco. "I would have bet you she was thinking about going for the men's epee team, they anything in the world last week to Germany this weekend to didn't just put up and shut up. against those guys going 8-1 fence in the Senior World Cup," They put up and screamed against Wayne State. Those said women's coach Yves about it. guys were just unbelievable Auriol. 
This past weekend against this weekend." "I don't think the team is Wayne State, the men's epee Yesterday at practice, Grif­ready yet. We still need to team whipped the over­fee and his epee teammates make adjustments. ·We'll be matched Tartars by an 8-1 tal­continued their antics, showing facing six teams this weekend, ly. That, combined with the ex­up to practice sporting colorful and hopefully that will help us. pected 8-1 score by the t-shirts with a picture of a chain Wedon'thaveour rhythm yet, heralded foil team, paved the and the words "weak link" and it's a problem that can only way for Notre Dame's 21-6 pas­printed on them. be solved by more competition. ting of rival Wayne State on Saturday's victory preceded "Even so, Molly lost two Saturday in Detroit. Sunday's sweep of Tri-State, bouts against Wayne State and 
Sophomore Todd Griffee has Detroit, and Michigan­we still won," continued Auriol. provided the spark for the Dearborn. The men's fencing "We have a balanced team, resurgent epee team, which team now enjoys a 62-meet win­and we proved that the two now leads the team in overall ning streak, which is the strong girls (Wayne State) had wins. Griffee took to wearing second-longest streak in Irish to face us weren't enough." headbands with 'weak link' fencing history. Both fencing teams will be in written on them last week in The women's fencing team action next weekend when they practice as an obvious parry to continued their current streak travel to Columbus, Ohio, for a Head Coach Mike DiCicco's of 31 meets without a loss this seven-school meet. The fencers remarks about the epee team weekend. Janice Hynes, Anne will then participate in the 
The Observer! Greg Kohs being the weakest part of the Barreda and Kristin Kralicek Junior Olympics the following Irish guard Mary Gavin was named the North Star Conference fencing team behind the foil won the last three bouts against weekend before hosting their player of the week. Gavin had the first triple-double in Notre and sabre fencers. a tough Wayne State team, first meet of the season Feb. Dame women's basketball history against Marquette Saturday, The epeeists proved other-coming from a 7-6 deficit to 21. 
Irish face high-scoring W. Mich. 
By MARTY STRASEN highlights, junior point guard ference. Assistant Sports Editor Mary Gavin established two A high-scoring group, all five school records in the contest, of the Western Michigan 
Tomorrow night's women's and was named this week's starters average at least 13 basketball game between North Star Conference Player points per contest, with 6-1 cen­Notre Dame and Western Mic­of the Week on Monday. ter Shannon Pickell leading the higan might just mark a first Gavin had the first triple­way with 16.6 a game. Senior for the Irish this season. double in Notre Dame history, guard Tracy Wells is second in They have to worry about a with 11 points, 14 assists and 10 the nation in assists, averaging 
possible let-down. steals. Her 10 steals were also 9.2 per outing. 
After every kind of problem a school record, topping her Looking at the last four in the book seemed to show its own mark of eight set earlier meetings between the two face for Notre Dame head this year against Montana. squads, history would seem to coach Mary DiStanislao this Mary Beth Schueth swiped favor the Irish. The teams have season, the 5-12 Irish played eight in 1985 against Xavier. faced each other every year their best game of the cam­The Irish can ill-afford that since 1983, and Notre Dame has paign this past Saturday dreaded let-down, however, as won all four times under DiS­The Observer! Greg Kohs against Marquette, posting an the Broncos enter the ACC tanislao. Of those victories, the 
The Irish women's swim team ·edged Cleveland State on Fridayimpressive 95-60 rout of the (7:30p.m.) with a 13-4 record, last three have been by a com­and edged St. Bonaventure on Saturday. Kelly Townsend details Warriors. In addition to other 6-3 in the Mid-American Con-bined total of 80 points. 
all the swim teams' action on page 10. 
Crystal Mountain takes its toll on ski teams 
Several injuries kept the men's and women's Ski advance to the race near Duluth. Participating in the Can-Am Games last weekend Teams from finishing as well as usual during last "The women and men are both very confident of at Windsor, Canada, the Women's Track Club faced weekend's races at Crystal Mountain, but the skiers making it as long as we can all stand up," said some of the toughest teams on both sides of the are confident they will recover by this weekend's Kathy Skendzel. "Saint Mary's will have more of northern border. divisional races. a struggle now that its number-one skier is out, but "There were some excellent teams there. It in­
The men's team traveled without top skier Pat I think they can make it too." cluded teams like Michigan, Michigan State, the Eilers, who was ill, and lost number-two skier C.B. Parker is equally confident about the chances of Division II national champions, the NAIA cham­Thomas to a sprained knee during the races. The the men's team. pions, the National Junior College champions, and Irish twice ended up placing fourth in the two-day 
the defending Canadian champions," said Head tournament. Coach Dan Ryan. 
"We were one point out of third place on both Steve Julia Merkel finished third in her heat in the 1500­days," said Jeff Parker. meter run with a time of 4:56, and posted a personal­With Jane Heisel out with an injured hand, Sharon Megargee best time of 3:03 in the 1000-meter run. Dow, Laurie Shea, Kathy Skendzel and Mary Beth "Julia equalled her best 1000-meter run time
Club Corner
Skendzelled the Notre Dame women's team to two already. I expect greater things to come from her," 
third-place finishes. said Ryan. 
Saint Mary's got the worst of the injury bug over Linda Filar (5:09), Karen Sharpe ·(5:26), and the weekend, though, as its top skier, Maureen Con­"We should be able to qualify because Eilers will Terry Kibelstis (5:45) all competed in the 1500.' naughton, broke her leg on the first day of compe­be back, but we're not too sure about Thomas," Wendy Powers recorded a time of 11.74 in the 60­tition. The Belles went on to finish fifth on both said Parker. "Without our top two skiers, we were meter hurdles, and Susan Rosenthall participated days. still able to stay in the top four last weekend." in the shot put. 
It could not be a worse time for the teams to get Encouraging the men's team last weekend was "There were some very good performances out hit by injuries. This weekend, the teams return to the result of a dual meet with Michigan following there," said Ryan. "There's a lot of work to be Crystal Mountain for the divisional races. Out of the two-day races. The Irish, behind J.P. Mac­done, but they did really well." twelve teams competing over the weekend, the top Fayden and Todd Maus, handily defeated the Wol­The team next competes in the Michigan State four will advance to a race near Duluth, Minn., verines. Relays on Saturday. between the top teams in the Midwest. The top two 
see CLUBS, page 9
teams in that race advance to nationals. Despite the injuries, the teams feel they should 







