Nu I ;;t. O.!I.Me 
• (;OLLECTW '' 

;-· 
The Iceman cometh 
r 
i::¢:l
IACCENT: Creepy, crawly harmless pets 
Sunny and very cool Tues­
day with the high in the upper 
30s. Clear and colder Tuesday night with the low in the lower

IVIEWPOINT: Deliberating divestment 
20s. ~ 
Z 1 D · 
... 

. . ***1<· _-.;:E'••'E . ' ;_(_, ..Ai_ COli Et:T T ,-,t,:•:.· : I. : ;, • j .....:·. ;l L . : : R A;;. y ·-· . · .. ' 
·:or· .,·E -• 

"--; ,.; I·· t: ' I '" 

.,-=~~ 


VOL. XXI, NO. 49 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1987 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
The Observ'3r I Zoltan Ury Dame. The nearly 20-foot high statue of Mary atop the dome distinguishes Notre Dame as the University of Our Lady. 


Reagan, Ortega to talk peace 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -President Reagan said Monday the United States would take part in talks with Nicaraguan aut­horities if they engage in serious cease-fire negotiations with the Contra rebels. 
Reagan emphasized that such discussions -the first be­tween the United States and Nicaragua in almost three years -would occur only if rep­resentatives of other Central American countries are also present. 
The president outlined the 
U.S. position to a luncheon gat­hering of Western Hemisphere foreign ministers assembled here for the annual meeting of the Organization of American States. Nicaraguan Foreign Minister Miguel D'Escoto was among the listeners as Reagan spoke. 
The United States and Nicaragua have had no sub­stantive bilateral talks since the latter half of 1984 when a series of meetings were held in Manzanillo, Mexico. By insist­ing that other Central Ameri­can countries be a part of any future contacts with the Sandi­
nistas,  Reagan  appeared  to  
rule  out  a  resumption  of  
bilateral discussions.  

Reagan's announcement ap­see TALKS, page 4 
ND grad announces off-campus plan 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 

Sean Coleman, newly elected South Bend city councilman, proposed, during his cam­paign, an eight point plan for strengthening relations be­tween the University of Notre Dame and the Northeast neig­borhood of South Bend. 
Coleman, who graduated from Nore Dame in 1978 and is now a resident and landlord in the Northeast neighborhood, said that his plan is aimed at developing greater ties be­tween the University and South Bend by encouraging off­campus students to take on a greater role in their communi­ty. 
Coleman's press release reads "I am here this morning to propose that a 'good neigh­bor' policy be instituted jointly by the City of South Bend and the University of Notre Dame to help foster a responsible, communi~y oriented relation­ship between the students of Notre Dame living off campus 
see PLAN, page 4 


NYSE chairman lectures on ethics of investment 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER Senior Staff Reporter 
Leadership from business leaders, rather than more laws, is needed to increase eth­ical standards in the invest­ment industry, according to John Phelan, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange. 
''There is a point where reliance on regulation to en­force ethical conduct becomes more hazard than health," said Phelan, Monday's keynote speaker at Notre Dame's Et­
"It is only by businessmen hics in the Investment Industry setting up and adhering to the symposium. highest principles," he said, 
"That point comes when "and making sure that every­regulation ensnares the just as one who comes under their au­well as the unjust, when busi­thority adheres and subscribes ness efficiency is sacrificed at to those, that we can even begin the altar of regulatory purity." to make an impact on all the 
Leadership is needed, he ethical problems that we see in said, to solve the investment in­our industry." dustry's problem of poor et­The investment industry, he 
hics. Leadership must come said, needs not only leadership from those who are responsible but also accountability. "Ac­for running financial institu­countability means that the tions and enterprises, he said. courts will impose severe
John Phelan Jr. 

penalties on lawbreakers, not just slaps on the wrist," he said. 
"Our society," he said, "per­haps in the misguided effort to show compassion and mercy, has too often allowed the lines of accountability to go slack." 
Strict accountability punishes the wrongdoer with­out handicapping those who do right, he said. "Most impor­tantly," Phelan said, "strict 
see STOCK, page 4 

Stocks tumble again as dollar continues to suffer 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A jittery stock market tumbled again Monday as the dollar extended its diz­zying slide on world currency markets. 
Beginning its fourth week of business since the 508-point plunge of Oct. 19, Wall Street continued to be dogged by anx­iety about the battered dollar and Washington's sluggish progress in trimming the huge federal budget deficit. 
And it had a new worry: the potential reappearance of com­puterized program trading, which had been banned after the October stock market crash. For the first time since then, the New York Stock Ex­change relaxed all restrictions on program trading, which has been blamed for wild swings in stock prices and may have played an important role in the collapse. 
The re-emergence of pro­gram trading, a controversial. technique involving instan­taneous buying and selling of stocks and stock-index futures, made traders even more anx­ious and kept many investors on the sidelines. 
"It's still nervous, it's still tense, it's still uncertain," said Monte Gordon, vice president and director of research for Dreyfus Corp. "It's a market that's still uncertain and con­fused." 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which tracks the value of 30 of the biggest U.S. companies, fell 58.85 points, or 3 percent, to close Monday at 1,900.20. Most of that loss oc~ curred early in the day, and the average then moved in a fairly narrow range through the rest of the session. 
It was the ninth largest one­day point drop for the Dow, adding to Friday's 26.36-point decline and last week's net loss of 34.48 points. 

A giant crocodile crawled out of a sewer Monday in a crowded street in Madras, India, causing panic among passers-by. People tried to kill the 7-foot-long creature with stones when it emerged, but authorities finally over­powered the animal by stuffing its mouth with burlap sacks. The crocodile retreated into the sewer but kept baring its teeth, witnesses said. Police said officials from a nearby zoo overpowered the crocodile and took it away in a truck. The animal was believed to have strayed into a sewer from a canal. -Associated Press 


Of Interest 
Le Cercle .t,rancais will meet tomorrow in the ISO lounge of LaFortune Student Center at 4:30p.m. to discuss plans for the creperie. -The Observer 
The Anti-Apartheid Network is sponsoring a daily prayer vigil this week to "pray for guidance in the Board of Trustees decision on divestment" From today through Thursday, the vigil will be at 12:15 p.m. on the steps of the Administration building. On Friday, the vigil will be at the Center for Continuing Education. -The Observer 
A.~ible s.tudy co-sponsored by Fisher Hall and Campus Mmistry will be held at 7 p.m. in Fisher's chapel. Father AI D'Alonzo will lead us in our study of the readings of advent. -The Observer 
Record-A-Tune at Undergrad Night at the Alumni Senior Club. You and your group sing lead vocals to your favorite tune backed up by the original recording. Under­grad Night is from 9:30p.m. to midnight. -The Observer 
Film and Cultural Studies concentration informational meeting will be at 4:30 p.m. in 210 O'Shaughnessy. For further information contact Professors William Krier or James Collins at 239-5398. -The Observer 
Michael Novak, theologian for the American Enterprise Institute will continue his Tuesday evening lec­ture series at 7:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. Tonight's topic will be "Natural Liberty: The International Effect." -The Observer 
A Resume Workshop will be offered at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library lounge by Jeff Rice, assistant direc­tor of the Career and Placement Services office. Rice will di~cuss the purl?ose of a .resume, how to choose an appro­priate format, Information on what to include and what ~ot to include in .a resume and will present further tips to msure an effective resume. Students of all majors and classes are invited to attend. -The Observer 
A Confirmation meeting will be held from 7 to 8 
p.m. in the Badin Hall Campus Ministry Conference Room for all wanting to be confirmed. -The Observer 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will meet at 7:30p.m. in the Stanford 24-hour lounge. Athletic Direc­tor Richard Rosenthal will address the group. All students are welcome. -The Observer 
~he <;ounseling Center is presenting a lecture 1 discussiOn on the signs and symptoms of suicide. This lecture I discussion will help individuals understand suicidal tendencies. It will be held in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center from 6:30 to 8 p.m. 
-The Observer 

Design Editor . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. ... Kathy Huston Design Auistant .................... Jodi Topel Typesetters...... .. ... Becky Gunderman ..................... ...Daniel Cahill News Editor.... .. ............ Regis Coccia Copy Editor.. .. ........... Matt Crowley Sports Copy Editor... .. Steve Megargee Accent Copy Editor ... ......... Lisa Young Accent Layout... .. .. ... Carolyn Rey Typists ... .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. ...... .. . Jenn Conlon ND Day Editor ........... David Lee Photographer. .. .. .. .. .. . Kerry Harrington 
.I 
Tuesday, November 10, 1987
The Observer 



Go for it now: 

In Brief 

You won't regret it 
Newspapers are filled with regrets these days. 
Judge Douglas Ginsburg regrets having used marijuana in the 1960s and 1970s. "I hope that the young people of this country, including my own daughters, will learn from my mistake and heed <Ron and Nancy's anti-drug) message," said Ginsburg. 
U.S. Rep. Connie Mack also regrets smoking marijuana in his younger days. "It was all wrong, and I should not have done it," Mack said last week. 
Other regretful former marijuana smokers include presidential candidates Bruce Babbitt, who apparently smoked the evil weed while at Notre Dame, and Sen. Albert Gore. 
The regrets don't stop with marijuana, however. 
Former presidential candidate Sen. Joseph Biden regrets committing plagiarism while at­tending law school. "I did something very stupid 23 years ago," he said. "I made some mistakes." 
And Republican presidential candidate Pat Robertson regrets engaging in premarital sex 
during his early days. "I have never, ever, in-:=:=:S 
dicated that in the early part of my life I didn't sow some wild oats," he said. "I sowed plenty of them. But I also said that Jesus Christ came into my life, changed my life and forgave me." 
The list goes on and on. In every case a public figure regrets something he did in his early days. 
"So be careful what you do in college," the lesson here seems to be. "You may regret it." 
But wait a second. 

What do you think you'll really regret 20 years from now? More than likely it won't be some­thing you did in college. 
It will be something you didn't do. 
That road trip you didn't go on ... Those jaunts to Bridget's or Senior Bar you missed because you had too much studying to do ... That scholarship you didn't apply for because you thought you didn't have a chance to win it ... 
The parties you skipped because you were too tired ... That club you didn't join because you thought you wouldn't have time . . . The trips to Chicago you didn't make. . . The people you sat near in class but never met ... That girl you worshipped for years but never asked out ... 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. fqr details. 
Mark Pankowski ~:!' 
Managing Editor 


\"~:". J 

The volunteer work you didn't have time for ... The play you didn't try out for ... The big basketball game you didn't go to ... The trips around the lake you didn't take . . . The job you didn't apply for because you thought you didn't have a prayer . . . The SYRs you skipped thinking all the "good dates" were busy that weekend ... 
The tailgaters you missed because you over­slept . . . The professors you liked but never got to know . . . Those An Tostal contests you didn't enter . . . The letters you didn't have time to write home . . . The graduate schools you didn't apply to because you thought they wouldn't accept you ... 
Famous people's lectures you didn't at­tend . . . The time you sold your football ticket . . . The trips you didn't take to the Dunes or Bendix Woods . . . 
The list could go on and on. But only if you let it. So take advantage of your college days and have a little more fun. You won't regret it. 

Tuesday, November 10, 1987 
The Observer page 3 

Senate outlines reports, discusses SUB violations 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink, student body president and vice president, presented the Student Senate Monday night with outlines of reports that will be delivered Thursday to the University's Board of Trus­tees. 
Cooke said the first report will regard the Freshman Ori­entation procedure. The follow­ing recommendations will be made to the Board of Trustees: 
• Lengthening the orientation procedure from two days to four days. The orientation pro­grams of several other univer­sities were consulted for com­parison. Cooke said none of the universities consulted had ori-
STRESS! IT'S CARRIE'S 21st IRTHDAY!! 
LOVE, BILL & THE GUYS 

Lincoln I 



DaresYou I 
ToStep I 
Across 1 
ThisLin

' e. ' ' 
~ It takes courage to deal with 
• constantly perfect weather. sun-drenched beaches ~nd the world's 
most gorgeous tan hnes. 
\ I 
California branches. 


If you have a 4-year degree. retail flair -and crave lots of hard work. call. We'll teach you the business in a unique management training program that lets you go as far as your talent will take you. So take the dare. ~ And come shine in California. 
~ \ 1,800:654-4626 

' l\~~ 

But somebody has to do it. That somebody could be you, if you're bright, motivated and serious about success. Serious enough to work for Lincoln Savings. Lincoln is one of the nation's fastest growing savings and loans. We're a $4.6 billion ' subsidiary of a fortune 500 company. And right now we're hiring at all 27 of our Southern 
entation programs shorter than four days. 
• 
Increasing the amount of small group activities as op­posed to large convocations. 

• 
Creating faculty involve­ment in the Freshman Orienta­


tion  program.  Cooke  men­ 
tioned  an  activity such  as  a  
faculty!Studentparent  

luncheon to foster a positive student;teacher relationship right from the beginning. 
• Increased student involve­ment. Cooke stressed having a student "Orientation Commit­tee that will work hand-in-hand with the Office of Student Ac­tivities and the Freshman Year of Studies." 
Bink said that the second report would discuss the orien­tation and integration of trans­fer students. The report will in-elude the following recommendations: 
• 
Making the five day meal plans more flexible. Bink said that many transfer students in­terviewed had said that they would like to be able to use their five day meal plans on weekends. 

•Stressing 
in the transfer stu­dent application that transfer students may never get a chance to live on campus. 

• 
Eliminating the Combination-S year engineer­ing program with other schools. Bink explained that the program allows 25 students to enter the engineering pro­gram at Notre Dame after taking three years of liberal studies at one of several other schools. These students are placed above regular transfer students on the list for on campus housing. 

• 
Creating a 24-hour lounge on campus for all students. 

• 
Creating a position in the Office of Student Activities for transfer student orientation. This would provide a sense of 


continuity  year  after  year,  
Bink said.  
• Creating  a  University­ 

' 


1 
•A vailable in your prescription for the first time 
•Blocks harmful UV rays and vision blurring blut 
1 
•A viailable in the latest designer frame styles
•Only 
at Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical 

•Ask 
for your student discount 


~~!r.::~~~~Rd :ot£~E:a~~~:. lm•~~£~•:;:•:1iSfZj·
ij.~•-!J•~~::Iillll 
acn»s from Scouad&le Mall rte.lt door to Oleo DN1 
291-4000 258-5000
I 


owned off-campus apartment. Bink said that the apartment would be designed to attract seniors, thus creating space on campus for transfer students. Bink said the report would rec­ommend the apartment be co­ed. 
In other business, the Senate continued discussion over the charges that were presented last week by Mike Jaeger, chief of staff, regarding violations of the Undergraduate Constitu­tion by the Student Union Board. 
The Senate agreed that the SUB steering committee should review the discussion of the charges made and bring specific recommendations to the Senate next week regarding policy changes or constitu­tional alterations. 
One of the points debated was the role of Adele Lanan, assis­tant director of Student Activ­ities, on the SUB steering com­mittee. Jaeger charged that Lanan is more active in activ­ities such as agenda screening than was intended for in the constitution. 
"Nowhere in the constitution are the rights and duties of the 
SObering Advice.: cansavea~~-~~ 1 
Think Before You Drink ~~ 
4

Before You Drive · 

The Observer 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Circulation Manager 

For further information contact Brian P. Murray at The Observer (239-5303) 


ue 



Blockers Are Cool! 

•You 
won't believe your eyes

•Clearer, 
Sharper, More 3D Vision 


assistant director of Student Activities, in his-her capacity as a member of the SUB steer­ing committee, restricted beyond the words 'non­voting,"' said Janel Blount, SUB board director, while reading from a prepared response to the charges. 
"Blount and other members of the SUB said that some con­stitutional violations do and have existed, in many cases, for several years. 
The response concluded "We (the SUB) believe that all of the supposed 'recognized viola­tions of the Undergraduate Constitution of the University of Notre Dame' in no way hinder the Student Union Board's mission 'to enhance student life by providing social, intellectual, and cultural op­portunities."' 
The Senate will discuss con­crete recommendations for rectifying violations that do ex­ist and modernizing descriptions and structures called . for in the constitution next week. 
·········An·Equol·()ppolt·un·•y·Em·ployer··c1007.l.mcoln S.v>""' & Lo.an A»oc>at;,, 

----~-·---~ ~~~ ~--------------------------------------------------r
I, I,I 
page 4 



Stock 
continued from page 1 
accountability deters future of­
fenses by sending a warning to 
the weak and the tempted." 
The investment industry 
needs higher ethics, he said, be­
cause "the past few years on 
Wall Street have been years of 
incredible change and turmoil. 
The size of companies and the 
size of transactions have grown 
enormously, and as size and 
complexity grow, temptations 
can also grow." 
"We need to be concerned as 
never before with preserving 
the values of decency and 
honesty and an atmosphere of 
trust on Wall Street," he added. 
"We simply cannot do business 
without those values and that 
atmosphere of trust." 
Phelan cited three tempta­tions for those working within the market. The hypocratic temptation, he said, is the temptation to think "we can write a set of crystal clear rules for the investment communi­ty." 
Defining business ethics is not impossible, he said, but it's far from simple. "To imagine that we can define and codify business ethics in some neat, precise list of commands would be as mistaken" as defining ethical conduct merely as ad­herence to the law. 
"I'm tired of hearing politicians and businessmen, faced with complaints about their conduct, making the defense that, 'What I did was within the law,"' said Phelan. 
"A truly ethical person ob­serves a stricter set of stand­ards than merely the legal ones," he said. 
A second temptation for those who hope to encourage a high standard of ethics in busi­ness, he said, "is to imagine that they can do the job by drawing an even tighter web of laws and regulations governing the investment community." 
Correction 
It was incorrectly re­ported Monday that Renee Gau was service concerns commissioner for the Stu­dent Union Board. Gau cur­rently holds the position of service concerns commis­sioner for Student Govern­ment. 
The Observer 



Talks 
continued from page 1 
parently was linked to the surprise statement by Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega last Thursday that his government would agree to open, through an intermediary, cease fire talks with the U.S.­backed Contras. 


Plan 
continued from page 1 
and the residents of the North­east neighborhood." 
The eight-point plan that Coleman proposed includes the following recommendations: 
• "The establishment of an off campus center," in a facility such as Northeast neighbohood center, ''where off campus housing, qutreach programs and community service activi­ties could be coordinated giving the University a visible 
"Those who succumb to the denigate businessmen as regulatory temptation would morally unworthy, and busi­turn the proverbial ounce of ness as an inferior calling, and prevention into a ton, or per­still hope that good people will haps ten tons of prevention," take up that calling." he said. If we hold up a vision of busi­
Phelan defines a third ness as an honorable profes­temptation, the adversary sion, he said, "I believe we are temptation, as "the notion that more likely to call into being we can look down on commerce what we believe in, and what 
as a 
I I 
profession, that we can we hope for." 
·~~· 
TUES. Vodka and Mix 90 cents WED. Molson's 90 cents 
THUR. Budweiser Can $1.30 
*************************** ATCH THIS'' 
George Cannon is 
21 TODAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18-8:00 

MORRIS CIVIC 
AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT HE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, 
NIGHTWINDS (NILES NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R."S (LAPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219-284-9190 

Reagan's remarks were con­sistent with the previous ad­ministration position that the United States would ease its stand on talks with the leftist Sandinistas only if they first opened a dialogue with the Con­tras. 
Reagan said that Secretary of State George Shultz "will be ready to meet jointly with the foreign ministers of all five 
presence in the Northeast neighborhood." 
• 
"The designation of an Off-Campus Housing Coordinator affiliated with the University to live and work in the Northeast neighborhood to promote re­sponsible student tenancy, community service and good will between student and resi­dents." 

• 
Creation of a group of stu­dent volunteers ("Weekend Warriors") to promote respon­sible socializing for off-campus students and police the neigh­borhood on weekends for trash 


************************************ 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
: 
*
* 
: : 
* 

: ** * 
*
*
*
* 
Tuesday, November 10, 1987 
Central American nations, in­cluding the Sandinistas' repre­sentative" if Nicaragua engages in "serious negotia­tions" with the Contras. 
The statement appeared to suggest continued forward movement in the Central American peace agreement signed by five presidents of the region last August. 
and contribute to public safety. 
• 
"Establishment of a 'Code for Off Campus Living' by the University to be followed by students promoting respon­

• 
To unite city and University efforts to "establish easily ac­cessible, community and stu­dent oriented retail business development to complement existing businesses" in the neighborhood. Coleman men­tioned specifically the need for restaurants and small shops. 


sible  socializing,  respect  for  
neighbors  and  community  
service."  

•********************************** 
Applications available for 

STUDENT ONION BOARD SECRETARY 
-be a part of SUB -get involved with steering committee, the planning arm of SUB. 
Pick up Applications at Student Union Board office, 2nd Floor LaFortune-due Tuesday, November 10 
• Art/Architecture 


• Business/Economics ,e 
• 
Engineering ~ 

• 
Human/Heanh Services 

• 
Journalism/Communications 

• 
VisuaVPerforming Arts 

• 
Politics 



All programmes include: 16 semester hour credits, 9-week internship, apartment, British facuhy. Ctfered fall, spring and summer seme~ters. 
BOSTON UNIVERSITY LIP, 725 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9888 NAME __________________________ ADDRESS ______________________ CITY__________j.JTATE_ZIP__ 
[ jArVArch 0Bus!Econ. []Engineering 0 Hum.IHeallh Serv. [JJoum.IComm. 0Vis./Perl Arts 0 Politics QOxlord 
* 

HAPPY * 
* 

18TH * 
* 

BIRTHDAY : 
*
* 

DANIELLE : DUCHATELLIER : 
*
* 

LOVE ALWAYS, :* from Mom & Dad * 
*
*
* 
* 





Accent
Tuesday, November 10, 1987-page 5 
Tarantula collection not something to shudder about 
The most difficult myth to dispel, says Henning, is that tarantulas kill humans for food. When people insist they are deadly, he says, he gets angry. 
Henning's fascination with tarantulas began when his uncle brought one home after a cross-country motorcycle ride. He got a tarantula of his own and started a collection about five years ago. Now, Henning trades with other col­lectors throughout the United 


Associated Press 
J 
OLIET, Ill. -People feel their skin crawl when they're around Ralph Henning's "kids." But the kids don't mind. The little darlings do some crawling, too -on eight hairy legs. 
Henning's kids actually are thousands of tarantulas col­lected from all over the world. He is believed to breed more tarantulas than anyone else in Illinois, with a collection that includes .38 of the world's 800 species. One of them, the Mexican Red Leg, is considered an endangered species. 
The spiders share a room in Henning's home with a few s~orpions. But each has its own individual cage in an aquarium, jar or plastic shoe box. 
"Tarantulas, except for males around mating time, are never together," Henning said, ex­plaining that the females eat their mates if they do not get enough to eat. 
One female can hatch 50 to .3, 000 eggs, Henning said. In the wild, only 8· I 0 percent make it to adulthood. 
"In captivity, it depends on the amount of time and effort you want to put in to take care of them," he said. "Different species have different humidity requirements, and if you don't get the humidity right, they don't grow." 
His numbers fluctuate as he trades the tarantulas. He now has about 2, 000, down from the 4,000 he had in August. They come in a variety of colors -gray, black. metallic red, blue, purple or yellow. Most span only a few inches from leg tip to leg tip. 
Myths, propagated mainly by countless "B" movies about killer insects digesting humans, are the most frustrating part of Henning's hobby. 
"There's still so much ignor­ance," he said. 
States, France, Canada, Chile, 
Argentina and England. 
Feeding the spiders can be costly, Henning said, even though he makes nightly trips to collect a supply of crickets, mealworms, grasshoppers and moths for them to eat. A specimen that is especially large or colorful can bring more than $I00. But most of the Henning's transactions are trades rather than sales. 
"Most people get tarantulas to show off, (but) they are very docile," he said. "I will feed them and they run away from my hand. You don't have to worry about them. If they have food, they are very easy to care for." 
Henning says his neighbors are interested in his unusual hobby. "Some ask questions, some shudder," he said. 
But none, so far, has com­plained. 
And despite the ignorance and dread others may feel about tarantulas, Henning hasn't lost his fascination for them. 
"I love seeing something I bred, grow," he said. 


Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 



Geekiness as a way of life 
neek. Geekdom. Let's geek. You have said it, you have Useen it, you have probably even done it. "Geek" or one of its many derivatives is one of those four-letter words which can be used to describe a variety of situations, people and occurrences. Upon arrival at Notre Dame, when I heard "geek." I thought "nerd." There were no certain qualifying character­istics associated in my mind with this term, I just got a general queasy feeling in my stomach when it was used to describe someone. 
As my first semester progressed, I heard the word identi­fying a particular group of people on campus: the geeks of the honors program. I do not know if the majority of them knew, before now, of their nickname, but since my room­mate was one of them, and she referred to herself as one, I assumed it must have had some substance. 
Mary Berger 
Back in the High Ufe 
"Geek" is most often used in reference to dedication to academia for any student: yes, maybe even you and I can be geeks. 
"I can't go to Bridget's guys, I have to read the next three chapters of physics for the test." "Don't be such a geek! The exam is not for three more weeks!" Such is the dialogue which may be heard Thursday night 
in a dorm room. How about Wednesday lunch: "So what are you doing this weekend?" "Well, I am going to be a geek Friday night so I can go 
out Saturday." Or, entering into another dimension of "geek" use: "''ve got to geek Friday so I can party Saturday." "Geek" is multi-faceted. It is like that white shirt you can 

wear with jeans, flannels, shorts or nothing at all. It can be noun, verb, adjective, adverb or take on a form of its own. 

Following are just a few examples heard around our own geekly, geek-filled, geeked-out campus. 
"Geek magnets" are the studly members of the opposite sex who don't consider themselves to be geeky but seem to only attract geeky others. These "others" may have geek breath or be geekheads. Whatever their specific redeeming qualities may be, they are certainly lacking according to the geek magnets. 
Two adverbial forms of this fun word are "geekly" and "geekily." The former almost appears to me to refer to the physical state of someone like "sickly" does. The latter, however, geeks me even more. If something is done geekily, I don't know if there is anything that can pull it through. 
"Geekage" is a noun form of which I do not really know the definition. Is it a state one enters after a certain amount of geeking or geeking out? Is it the generic word ascribed to anything done geekily by a geekly geek? Or is it the final stage before the epitome of "geekdom?" think "geekdom" is kind of like "smurfdom." Everything in one's vocabulary has a geek connection: 
"Wow, Buddygeek. did you catch the geekage on that geekly geekette?" 
Every generation and situation has its characteristic qualities and unique language. The Darners of today may or may not be geeks, geek out or experience geekdom. Most likely, though, they are and they do, but just won't admit it. You know it, I know it and they know it. So the next time you or someone close to you needs to geek or is being a geek. relax, because everyone's doing it. 
ITS n\E St>.D ~1\\. Df..D. KCJBJO~ Crt.RtS A~\,JT '{Ql.lR rosrnot-~s a~ f/1.-n.ltRWXlO. WE JUS\ WOO' m ~ 
~U\ ~OJR QII>.Q~CI'CQ. 
IF 'iOIJ'Rt. G(Jil'-\G 1() ~ 01\1> ~~. 'HE W..IJE lO mJW '«:l\NE. ~m.R 0<::-NE OR SAID AN~\\1\~G '1\1~1 'Heilll 
~l~ 00. 'iOIJR ~\JDG!o\t.~l. 



------~---------------~-------------------------------­
U5TEN, IA/ARPEN,
Editorial Board Operations Board 
MOVe FASTe/1.! ING70H£U-! l'ii 7HAT 5ALOMOII 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef .. Kevm Becker Busmess Manager Bnan Murray 
~ BeiNG PROPP~ 
Managmg Editor Mark Pankowski Adverttsmg Destgn Manager Dav1d Culligan 
• 8Y7HeFW! 
News Ed1tor Chns Bednarski Advert•smg Manager Melinda Chapleau News Ed1tor J1m R11ey ProductiOn Manager Melissa Warnke The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un~vers1ty of V1ewpomt Editor Chns Murphy PrOJects Manager Mark Mclaughlin 
""( Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Marys College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of Sports Ed1tor .. Oennos Corngan Systems Manager Shawn Sexton the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nSt1tu!Jon The News 1s reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Ed1tor M1chae1 Naughton Controller Tracy Sch1ndele possible Uns1gned ed1tona1s represent the op1n1on of the matonty of the Ed1tonal Board Samt Mary's Ed1tor Sandy Cenmele GraphiC Arts Manager Laura Stanton Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of theJr authors. Column space Photo Ed1tor J1m Carroll 
•s ava1lable to all members of the school community. and the tree express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through !etters. IS encouraged 
, Founded November 3, 1986 




Viewpoi
Tuesday, November 10, 1987 
Trustees should vote to divest 
In three days, the Notre Dame Board of Trustees will meet for its semi-annual meeting. As it has for the past several years, it will consider whether the University should main­tain its investments in corporations doing business in South Africa. 
The time has come for Notre Dame to divest. 
The political situation in South Mrica has continued to deteriorate despite investments by well-meaning foreign or­ganizations. These organizations believe their investing in the South African economy will help the blacks there --by setting an example for the way social justice can be achieved. Unfortunately, this approach has failed as a whole. 
The plight of the blacks has not improved because of these investments. Blacks are still systematicallly denied political, economic and social rights in South Mrica. 
A continued economic presence has not, and will not, pres­sure the white supremacist government into dismantling the apartheid system. In fact, this economic presence only strengthens the current political structure. 
Notre Dame's investment policy has been based on the highly-touted Sullivan Principles. In May 1987, the Rev. Leon Sullivan acknowledged the failure of his own principles to achieve significant reform and therefore urged a total dis­investment of holdings. Sullivan also pressed for further sanctions against the South African government as the best means to bring about a negotiated end to apartheid. 
With Sullivan abandoning his own principles, Notre Dame must make the decision to divest. 
By divesting, Notre Dame will be following other banks, corporations and secular universities in placing a meaningful pressure on the apartheid system. Unfortunately, the Uni­versity has lost its position of leadership in this arena of social justice. This fact, however, is no excuse for continued support of a repressive society fueled by an economy depen­dent on foreign investment. 
Notre Dame must now face the reality that the situation in South Africa has deteriorated past the point of selective means of correction. The past approach has failed and a new one is needed. 
If Notre Dame considers the promotion of social justice to be part of its mission, then immediate divestment is the only course that can be pursued. 
-The Observer 

On a weekly basis The Observer will select an issue that is of interest to our community. In ordet to pres;. ent different views on the issue, columns will be solicited from the community, including members of the administration, faculty and students. In addition to these contributions, The Observer will also com­ment on the issue. 
The Observer welcomes letters to the Editor con­cerning the opinions presented o.n tnese and other issues. The Observer, however, reserves the right to edit all letters, and brevity is a criterion for publica­tion. You may addres~ the letters to The Observer, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 


Divestment divides 
Disinvestment will not help end apartheid 
As Paul Johnson reminds us, (Commentary 80, No.3; Sept. 1985) virtually all African states are racist. And Bishop Tutu's assertion that South African blacks would wel­come a Soviet occupation is naught but utter nonsense. South African blacks are brighter than the good bishop insofar as few, if any, would opt to work in the mines of the Soviet "peoples democracy." Nor would the good bishop, I suspect. But the road to Stockholm is less arduous than that to Damascus. 
James Carberry 
guest column 
Our limousine liberals of the fevered brow set are, by instinct, in­clined to fashioning thunderbolts di­rected against South Africa on the issue of apartheid. Genocide behind the Iron Curtain is OK, kids. An al­ternate political life style --one should not be judgmental. Right? Right on. 
No, I ask, who save a moral leper 

would defend apartheid? 
Let me tell you who --a quite clever Marxist-Leninist. Such a depraved mind, sustained by a sig­nal percentage of Western social scientists, would see naught but benefit in an assault upon apartheid which effectively destroys an eco~ nomy intrinsically engineered to end apartheid. More on that anon. 
Such an assault is divestiture, dis­investment. The simplest solution inflicted by simpletons. Academics, naturally. 
Divestiture, as even an economist knows, will blood-let the South African economy. And to bloody hell with the primary victims of such a hemmorage. Yes, the victims! Why the South African blacks, coloureds, and other minorities, including Jews. · · 
Thus, the first 'distortion visited upon us by our fevered-brow breth­ren --that South Africa is divided between blacks ·and whites. Utter . nonsense, the facts declare. In fact, not unlike Africa: in' general, Soutn. 
. Africa is ripe with interracial con­fliCt -black tribe A vs. black tribe B -white group C vs. white' mob D. A chiaroscuro far too subtle for our guilt-ridden social scientists in academe; our caring "kids" on trendy campi; the Amy Carters and their ilk who arrogantly presume to be our national conscience. Burps from the boobs. The second distortion is the .dog­
matic assertion that divestiture-' dis~ -~alleged beneficiaries of this simplest 
investment will bring an end to apar­theid. Give freedom to the blacks and other oppressed minorities in South Africa. To wit, the destruction of the only healthy economy in Africa will, we are told, liberate the oppressed. 
''Disinvestment? Well in spite of the visions of our Moralistic Minority -it doesn't work." 
One is obliged to ask why South Africa, in spite of its dreadful apar­theid· policies, is so popular a work site for Africans in neighboring states. 
Why? Why do blacks from diverse "socialist paradises" seek work in that Eden of apartheid -South Africa? And what forces or factors best diminish the rationale for apar­theid?.What means will most effec­tively eliminate apartheid? 
Disinvestment? Well in spite of the visions of our Moralistic Minority ­it doesn't work. In that damnable phrase of the Kid Kulture Krowd ­disinvestment "is counter produc­tive, man." For the primary victim of disinvestment is the black. Johnson estimates that about 80% of jobs lost due to disinvestment are lost by -you guessed it -blacks, the policy urged upon us by our Princes and Princesses of Park A venue (between 54th and 78th -east side, of course). How convenient it is to sip one's cocktail and fashion ex cat­hedra dicta while looking over Central Park and overlooking the realities of South Africa. 

The reality? Realities? A fair ex­amination of African nations would persuade even an avid reader of The Nation or its local satellite, Common Sense, that the natives benefit only where capitalism flourishes. They, the natives suffer, in spite of Marxist rhetoric, where social engineering is imposed. 
Capitalism will bring about the demise of apartheid in South Africa. Not the ANC, a Marxist-Leninist band of violent villians beatified by the loons of Western academe. 
One would expect that an educated 
academic would respect the distinc­
tion twixt ends and means. Not so 
on our trendy campi these days. The 
end--eliminate apartheid. Va bene! 
How? Why divest, of course. Are 
there not other means whereby the 
noble end might be realized? The en­
couragement of capitalism which, in 
South Africa, has actually benefited 
blacks? God, no. NO! Not 
capitalism, ole boy. That's im­
perialism. Right? Wrong. Look to 
the record, the book. Look, good stu­
dents to history, not social engineer­
ing. 

Much as I am startled by the fail­
ure of the loons of the liberal left in 

page 6 -7 



!S the Notre Dame community 
Divestment is a vital step to end apartheid rule 

Since the massacre of Soweto's school children in 1976, Notre Dame has been called upon to divest its holdings in corporations that do busi­ness in South Africa. Year after year, Fr. Hesburgh and the Trustees responded by offering rationaliza­tions for continued investment in the apartheid system. While a growing number of colleges, universities, cities and states divested, and doz­ens of banks and major corporations pulled out of South Africa, a sizable percentage of Notre Dame's endow­ment was placed at the service of that country's white-owned eco­nomy. 
Peter W alshe 
guest column 
The Sullivan Principles are the guidelines used for Notre Dame's in­vestments. Accordingly, the Univer­sity will only hold stock in corpora­tions that are signatories to the Principles and, therefore, commit­ted to desegregating their plants and offices. The assumption is that con­tinued investment will provide jobs for blacks as well as whites and stim­ulate economic growth. Such a strat­egy, it is argued, will undermine the 

1Ur Princes ·k Avenue east side, ent it is to lion ex cat­king over ooking the  academe to respect the distinction between noble ends and foolish means, I am outraged by their as­sertion that should one dispute their means set forth to realize a noble, agreed-upon end; that such con­stitues a denial of that end.  apartheid system. The illustration behind this ap­proach has been exposed by the events of the last decade. By 1980 the South African government itself was supporting the Sullivan Prin­ciples. Dismantling the color-bar in  
A fair ex­ Professor  Walshe  is  a  case  in  white-owned threat to  corporations was no Afrikanerdom. When  
ions would :.der of The  point: should we question his means to bring about the desired end, we  blacks left the factory gates, they returned to the reality of apartheid  
~.Common enefit only hes. They, of Marxist :ineering is  are explicitly andlor implicitly ac­cused of favoring apartheid. Anyone who, as have Walshe and his crowd, questions the Rev. Theodore Martin Hesburgh's devo­ in segregated townships, schools and political institutions. In 1984, President Botha reasserted white supremacy through a new constitu­tion based on continued social and  
about the uth Africa. st-Leninist eatified by deme. meducated  tion to cevel riglita throughout this universe gives distortion of reality a bad name indeed. "Capitalism will bring about the demise of  political segregation. At the same time, Pretoria's Information Ser­vices spent millions trying to dis­credit the divestment movement, hoping to entice western banks and corporations into fueling an expand­ing economy which would  
the distinc­ms. Not so  apartheid in South  strengthen the militarized apartheid state.  
edays. The  Africa."  In  ·May  1986,  following  pro­ 
tVa bene! ourse. Are  This university has assumed tne  divestment referenda by faculty and students, the Trustees stated that  
·hereby the ed? Theen­ proper position on apartheid -it is a moral evil. It, apartheid, will be best  they would divest if the situation in South Africa deteriorated further.  
m which, in  bested by investment in an economic  Within weeks of this commitment,  
y benefited NO! Not rhat's im­ system, capitalism, which has liberated more persons on this earth than has that most draconian of  the Botha government declared a State of Emergency and applied a range of draconian measures de­ 
g. Look to  pseudo-religions  so  poplular  signed  to  crush  anti-apartheid  
It, good stu­ amongst our pseudo-scientist dons -­ protests. The military, unrestrained  
tl engineer- socialism and its diverse isomers.  by  law,  occupied  the  black  
townships; the press was censored  
by the fail- Dr. James J. Carberry is a Profes­ into passivity; tens of thousands of  
1eral left in  sor of Chemical Engineering.  blacks, whose commitment was to  

loonesbury 
USTEN, lA/~, YOU HAVe 7V HOVe FASTUI.! TH£ 5TR£ET's GO­
/JONT 8EUeVc ING 70 HtU-! I'Ve ei!NH&ARP 
n:tuHIJRell!?£ THe 
YOU P!CJ<JNG RAOIO. 
"NPR."'?

7HAT SAWMON 8R.OTHERS IS 
0

BC!NG PROPPW UP 
UP 5Tl?£TCH&RS NPR.. 
UK& THAT,
8Y7HcFW! 
PHIL."? I 
""" 
\ 

non-violent forms of protest, were rounded up and detained without tri­al; torture became endemic in the prisons; South African troops and Pretoria-sponsored 'contras' devas­tated the surrounding states that op­posed apartheid. Yet, even as the situation deteriorated, Notre Dame continued to invest, regardless of the brutal repression and in spite of its public commitment. 
When, in November 1986, another meeting of the Trustees rolled around, they adopted a delaying tac­tic. The Rev. Leon Sullivan was to reconsider his Principles, sometime in May 1987, and the Trustees decided to wait for his decision. In the event, Sullivan abandoned his Principles and called for complete disinvestment from South Africa plus a total trade embargo. The hard-shelled Trustees, having banked on a different outcome, balked again. 
While the Sullivan Principles have been abandoned by their author, Notre Dame continues to use them while searching for a new excuse to continue business as usual. One line is that disinvestment was tried and has failed. This is simply not true, for disinvestment was never imple­mented in any systematic way. Most of the firms that "withdrew," for ex­ample Coca Cola and General Motors, simply sold out to South African corporations. These firms, many of them created specifically for the task of avoiding any disrup­tion of the South African economy, continue to handle American tech­nology and products. Pseudo­disinvestment parades as the "real thing." 
"Even as the situation deteriorated, Notre Dame continued to in­vest, regardless of the brutal repression and in spite of its public commitment." 
The apartheid establishment is not going to negotiate a non-racial South Africa until the cost of maintaining the existing order is pushed up dramatically. Non-violent protests, strikes, boycotts, political non­cooperation and a guerilla struggle have already put great pressure on the white power structure. However, for the moment, the balance of power is unlikely to shift unless the West applies tough economic sanc­tions. Only if black protests are sup­ported by disinvestment and a com­prehensive trade embargo, will white South Africa be forced to the 
negotiating table. Short of this, the country and surrounding region face a prolonged and increasingly brutal war. 
It is because they understand these dynamics that the liberation movement --the African National Congress, the United Democratic Front and the Congress of South African Trade Unions --has called for determined economic sanctions, including divestment. So has the South African Council of Churches. These organizations know that black South Africans are prepared to suf­fer further to foreshorten the agony of their already protracted struggle for justice. The U.S. Catholic Bis­hops Conference has also come out for divestment. Likewise, Black America--the NAACP, Transafrica, the Black Congressional Caucus and the Urban League --has called on White America to take a firm stand on sanctions. 
What Rev. Malloy and the Trus­tees do when they gather on Nov. 13 and 14 will not matter much--they have left it too late. Without assis­tance from Notre Dame, the divest­ment movement has already achieved a ~asure of success -­damaging the investment climate and checking the growth rate of the South African economy. However, there are opportunities on campus to resist apartheid. The Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network is now throwing its weight behind the na­tional lobbying effort pressing Congress for tighter legislative sanctions against South Africa. There is also a movement afoot to get the United Nations to back a mandatory and comprehensive trade embargo. This is where we must now put our energies and not waste them trying to convert the un­convertable at Notre Dame. 
I will be suprised if there is any change of heart this November on the part of Rev. Malloy or our Trus­tees, whose Chairman is Donald Keough, President of Coca Cola. In all likelihood, we will have yet an­other pro forma performance. No doubt, the music-hall duo, "Ollie and Zang," will be wheeled out once again to perform their smoke and mirrors act, reassuring the Notre Dame community that investment in apartheid is consistent with our much vaunted Christian commit­ment to social justice. In the end, another statement will be issued by the Trustees accompanied by much handwringing. Nevertheless, behind the routine condemnations of apar­theid will lie the assumption that, as the gas ovens are not yet in place, investment in the South African fas­cist state is still defensible. 
Peter Walshe is a Professor of Gov­ernment and International Studies. 

Garry Trudeau A/.50, MOM ~Y5 70 7UL. YOU YOUR T-81U.5 HAVe MI(TUR£P. BOY, HAVENT lAic Alt-.' tATER, PUI?t.' 1/  Quote of the Day "Life doesn't just happen to you; you take what happens and make it your life."  
Carol Crump  


.. 
Tuesday, November 10, 1987
page 8 The Observer 
Rosters are due tomorrow for the Miami Proj­the sports conversation by calling 239-6400. -The ect, an open flag football tournament to benefit the Observer

Sports Briefs 
Marc Buonaconti Fund. -The Observer 
The Gymnastics Club willhaveamandatory
Sports writers are asked to attend a meeting ND hockey players Brian Montgomery, practice today at 4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic 
Thursday, November 12, at 7 p.m. in the Observer Mark 0' Sullivan and Bruce Guay will be the guests Facility. If you cannot attend, contact Maureen at 
office to sign up for winter sports. -The Observer on WVFI's "Speaking of Sports." Fans can join in 284-5119 or Terence at 1608. -The Observer 
n.a.--NotAl Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center .ccept1l claalfled *'-tieing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. n.a..-Saint Mery's offlce, located on the third floor of H-oo-Collge Cent••.ccepta clualfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thfOugtl Friday. Deedtlne tor next-day clualfleda Is 3 p.m. All clasalfleda must
Classifieds be pn~pMt, eltt." In 1*'011 or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five c:tw.cten p.-"-Y. 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT SEMES· I NEED GAs FOR ALL HOME FOR SALE 2 BAMA GA'S CALL 2883 
KATHY NEE-Ooooh, you're the one Kelly had the hots TEA ? SPOT IN CAMPUS VIEW GAMES.272-8306 JOE 
What's a aw-l girl like you doing at for! I wonder what happened to the
\ NOTICES OPENING UP! IF INTERESTED, CALL ................................................................ 
N.D.? Why not come South wherelt'a Golden poet?? KEITH. 271 ·0571. NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· HELP!IHELPI! NEED BADLY 6 ALA· 
warm -mlaa you too much. ThankaTYPING AVAILABLE 

ETS TO ALABAMA va. NOTRE DAME BAMA TICKETS(2 STD,4GA'S). CALL 
for the beot year ao lar... HAPPY AN­Need a ride to the REPLACEMENTS287-4082 GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL 233·9660 ASK FOR BOB OR LEAVE 
NIVERSARY. show this Sat. nrte in Chicago. Call Mike COLLECT (814) 535-9490 BEFORE 5 MESSAGE. 
Love and XXDOXX, 1641.
WANTED OR (814) 286-4494 AFTER 5 PM. 
BenjaminTYPING-WORD PROCESSING NEED 'BAMA GA'S. CALL 272-8282 P.S. -Have a Happy Sunday, Jel­ALISON -A 45?? NO WAY! CON­

CALL CHRIS ii'iii..suci<s..FoFi"iiii·;,;A··s:ruosi··c:~i~ $$$$$. 
lybean? GRATULATIONS! SPAZWORK IN JAPAN AND TAIWAN· un­234-8997 John 271-0939dergrade and grada eligible lor En­GRAD NEED 2-4 BAMA TIX. ALUMNI 
FOR SALEi.NEED 'BAMA STUD TIX. CALL DOC DAD WITH BIG WALLET COMING. Fiict~--;;~~p;;~~;~i; ..~~;;;;d'··;·v;·2··;~··;~d · Roundtnp ticket to anywhere Braniff flies. Typing 
gllah convaraatlon lnatructor peal­
tiona. Long and ahort-term 

334718 PLEASE CALL 312-303-5949 EVES. 
from Indy Hoosierdome for Pink Floyd Cheap. Amy271 -0921 
poaalbllftlea, Including aummera. TNchlng experience not required; 

237-1949 or 2n-8131 
concert. Call Ray at 1478. Please help.N~;;d .4 GAs for Alabama for my brother, NEED TWO ALABAMA STUD TIX $$$ RIDE NEEDED TOclaaNa conducted In Engllah. Good his wife and 2 children. Willing to pay a Michelle 288-6631 Mi'-1i···FFioi.1·· i-iowiiR'ii~:i···eN.J6vii6 LOUISVILLE,KY
TY'PiN·G·..;;·tcKi:i;;...&...ciiii:iiieiiv''2n:· pay. Opportunity to atudy ChineN or 
reasonable amount over cost. 284-5666 

TALKIMG WITH YOU ON WED. SORRY FOR TURKEY BREAK $$$ HELP! NEED 1 ALABAMA TICKET 7406 JapaneN. Plan now! Write: Chin• 
I COULDN'T SHARE THE PIZZA WITH KAREN 4-4381 1need Alabama GA's and stud tix. xt 118 (STUDENT OR GA) CALL KIM 2608 $$$Japan Sarvlcea, 2505 I St., NW, WNh· YOU.LETS SHARE ONE TOGETHER
MARiSSA;s·nPING 277~2724-NiGHr; lngton, DC 20037. Ken. 
SOMETIME.BRAD 4133
................................................................

2n·1051 DAY. 
NEED: FOUR ALABAMA GAME STU· CHARLIE'S ASSIGNMENT £1PAINTER WANTED: NEAT PAINTER
................................................................ 
SAM KINNISON tix available·I tth row­DENT TICKETS, PLEASE CALL MISSY 
MONARCH FIND the PERFECT DATE for the OUT­Soon the Prophecies of the invasion of WANTED TO PAINT CLOSETS, ETC. 
Morris Civic· 1 1/13-best offer 277-8298 271-0868 will be at CHIP'S RAGEOUSLY AnRACTIVE BLONDE.

Israel and the Great Earthquake will be IN MY HOME. YOU CAN CHOOSE Tuesday and Wednesday KATIE H. for the SMC FRESHMENfuHilled (cf. Ezekiel38, Daniel 12). Form­YOUR OWN HOURS. I HAVE APPROX. 
Wanted 2 GA's for the Alabama Game I NEED ALABAMA GA'S ·UP TO FOUR 
Drink specials; 1st set at 10 DANCE at K of C on Nov 20. For moreing a community, self-sufficient in food 40¢ HOURS OF WORK. PAYING 
Call Doug at 1623 C.ll Marty et1489 
info CALL the Angels:and energy, to survive, God Willing, the $4.00+1R. CALL 262-1935, AFTER 6:30 Chris 284-5460PM.
coming destruction. Write: Michael, P.O. 
Need 2 Bema GA's $$ Mark x2447 Jill 284-5535Box 4475, South Bend, Indiana 46634-a BAD WAYI!!

I need 2 BAMA TIX in JUST WHEN HIS DREAM 
Kelly 284-5485 Helpl Help! Help! I need 4 Barna tickets Please help me by calling 3495. WAS ABOUT TO COME TRUE4475 WANTEDII Two grad students need six 
-Before Fri Nov 13­badly! Student or GA. Call Scott at 321 7 THE GATSBY·UKE CARGA's for Alabama game--not necessarily we will investigate the candidates MAYtogether. Please call 283-3090 if you canEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL or 1962. NEED BAMA GA's BADLY x4199 $$$$ CAME OUT OF NOWHERE 
THE BEST MAN WIN!' ...... AND RAN HIM DVERIMRS. COKER, 233-7009 help. Our out-of-town relatives are willing 
toPAYI need 3 Alabama GA's ..Please call Carol My very big brother will pay very big$$$$ SUCH IS UFE... at 271-0868 for a BAMA Tix. Call Steve x3893. 

JUNIORS
HELP THIS TURKEY "WANNA GET LUCKY?" 
Chimes is now accepting plays, poems, 
and short stories. Submrt to Chimes, get home to PINK FLOYD TIX Nov. 12, Indy Hoosier­Do aomethlng better! Donate your GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOOMC SMCST. LOUISEngl. Dept. Am 303 Madeteva Hall dome Call Tom £1062 'Bama Tlx to Logan Centerlll Wed, SUPPORT -EDUCATION • SOCIAL 
"9AD LUCK BASH" Thur, Friday dinners... FOR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
FOR THANKSGIVING1

eeo.iiNo.eREAi<.Fiis:r·N.o:..&s:M c. Can leave Tues. after 12:30. Will share F nday the 13th
TWO ALABAMA GA rrX FOR SALE. WRITE TO 9pm-1 am Elks LodgeParents 2 nights minimum 1 2 minutes expenses. Call Laura x 2750. 
MARK (404) 231·1240 (0); (404) 921-Scraps or Spares? BOX 194; NOTRE DAME. IN 46556 CASH BARIfrom campus 272-5989 3128 (H). I can use those extra Barna T1x for my 
$1D-NO TICKETS AT DOOR little sisNeeded: Ride tofrom BuffaloWNY Area 
SALE TIMES Need 4 Alabama Tix RICH x1 148 NeSd 2 to 4 Call 3018 A SUMMER IN FRANCE, GERMANY,for break. Can leave anytime after noon 
NOV 8-10: DORMS 6·10pmSWITZ, AND ITALY (JUNE 12-JULY 11) 111.!3 or mom. 11124. Will share costs. 
NOV 11: 9am-11am HAGGARJohn--1461 
NEED BAMA TIX-call Mike 1699 WITH ND-SMC STUDENTS? Need 3 BAMA STUD TIX-Will pay $$$. COURSES IN ITALIAN, HIST, SOC 
I LOST/FOUND I 
TRAVEL PROMOTERS WANTED MY FRIENDS ARE COMING FROM Call2915 AVAILABLE. CALL T.J. JONES 2053

LOST· Gold Croaa and Chain. Sentimen­RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO FOR T·
EARN HIGH COMMISSIONS e FREE 

tal Value -Please call Doug 2327 LONG ISLAND AND I NEED ALABAMA (302 STANFORD) FOR DETAILS ON DAY CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER
TRIPS! FANTASTIC BUSINESS EXPE­TIX. GA'S OR STUDENT TIX. I'M A MS. TEEN AMERICA TO VISIT THIS WK THE SUMMER ROME PROGRAM. 

1 1 am ON TUES. CALL 284-4438 Lost Lost Lost Lost One Georgetown 87 SENIOR AND THIS IS IT. CALL PAUL WILL NEED 1 BAMA STUD OR GA.
RIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME! Meet 
people and gain recognition on your

Class Ring, USC Weekend H found call 2185. WILL PAY $$$$$$$$ CALL MIKE AT Dear Blue Eyes, Thank you for your To my Physics Lab Goddess· "I seem to
cempua aa an Entertainment Tours 

4174 Reward Reward Reward Reward ............................ 3459 prayers. patience, and support. They 
have misplaced my velcro." 1 BAMA STUD TIX NEEDED BADLY '' really helped during a diffiCUlt time. TheSpring BrNk Trip C.mpua Repi'8Hn­
Love you, your Roomie Lost: TIME WALKMAN. Please return to CALL MAn X2055 Please help! I need one Student or GA weekend is over and I've made my deci­
tatlve. Call toll lrM 1-800-525-1831and 
aak lor Entertainment To<na. 

313 Howard or the Rock. for the Alabama game. Call 284-5272 sion. • • So are you busy Fnday n1ght? 
To the gang.Shakey,Mom & Dad and PINK FLOYD TIX MAn 272-1869 A Green-eyed Gal 
everyone else who helped make my 20th Lost & Found: When I got off Cardinal b-day so spec1al· Thanks I You are all so 
Energetic CAMPUS REPS needed to FOR SALE promote Spring BrNk Ski I Beach trip

Bus 434 returning from the U2 co concert NEED: 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALABAMA; 2 ALABAMA STUD TICKETS BEST OF­Frosty a1r and snow always send chills wonderiul Love. Kelly
packagea. Earn FREE TRIPS I CASH! 

at Indy Nov. 1, I accidentally took some­CALL DIANE 271 ·0205 FER CALL BETHANI 271-0234 down my sp1ne ··SO does a 'WINTERS'"
Call SunchaN Toura today lor yourone's CS&CO jean jacket instead of my Mlka Woll-Have a great dayl-an admirer
A Warm Heart from an Arctic State
application packet1-800·321-5911. 

FRANK SINATRA TICKETS Excellent lo­(M.C.Kraft) in side, the other doesn't. If Happy 22nd Birthday! 
Levi's jean jacket. Mine has a name tag cation 289·1213 
NEED RIDE 0 SAL TIMORE FOR anyone knows the whereabouts of my THNKSGVNG CALL 1222 Ride n-*!to DetroiVI'urkey Day. Call jacket and wants theirs back, please call CHRIS REARDON Lea284-4320
NEED 1 BAMA TICKET-STU OR GA PERSONALS 
PLEASE HELP ME OUT ALYSSA 3736 Who is bad. WANTED: 
me at 1891 or stop by 104 Fisher Hall. 
COMPUTER DISKETTES LOST BLUE FOR SALE Christina, I had a great time last 
4 GA'S TO ALABAMA

AND YELLOW 2891213 WAKE UP! weekend. but I still want my umbrella CALL ROMANO AT 1623 ................................................................ Lovechunks Lane: Lighten up and hve a back. Make the dinner reservations early LOST 3 keys on white Ireland keyring. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, little.lts alright if you skated beh1nd Joyce 
so you can make 1t to the tower party Call3857 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE all night. Boy oh Boy Saturday mte. 
Ia It True You Can Buy Jeepa lor $44 
through the U.S. government? Gat the 
I NEED 

BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.
hlcta todayl Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 

LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST ALABAMA ................................................................ MORRISSEY 347, DAVE from Grace & TO THE GORGEOUS SMC FLASHER
7318. LOST LOST LOST LOST Timex watch· TICKETS DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? MAn from 3rd floor Keenan, we're FROM HOLY CROSS: 
-gold face with broken silver and gold CALL TONY £1517 IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS watch1ng you 1n Baby Bio--ELK WE MET AT CAMPUSVIEW. YOU
airline tix to MIAMI FL from Ohare 

band REWARD REWARD REWARD WILL BUY THEM! WILL PAY $$$1 CALL MADE HALLOWEEN A REAL TREAT.
onaway 11124 $100 and ride back tom 

REWARD Call Deanna at 3516 SUE AT X4238 Do you have a hear of gold for NO?
2016 DROP ME A LINE SOMETIME. 
NEED TIX TO ALABAMA (2 Student). 

A LONG DISTANCE ADMIRER LOST: BRACELET-GOLD ON ONE Will pay very well. Coli Richard et272-Interested in an Internship? Have 2 BAMA GAs for sale cheap, call
NEC MultiSpeed Laptop Computer 5512.

SIDE, "I LOVE YOU" ON OTHER. I LOST Maunce 233·5966.
100% IBM Compatable : Fully portable; 

IT WED .. NOV. 4 SOMEWHERE ON NO Do you know what you want to do after ANDY AND KEVIN: Now we know you're 
includes 5 hour battery NEED GA call 5 SUZIE

CAMPUS. PLEASE, PLEASE CALL KK 7 40K : Monitor and two 720k drives In­'BAMA TIX student or graduation? TOP REASONS TO WISH real brunettes!!! Love, YOUR FELLOW 
AT 2981 IF FOUNDI! Doug 234-6718 MOSER, 294-5117, 308 LE MANS, A 
NUDISTS Confused abcut job possibiht1es? HAPPY BIRTHDAY: 5) SHE'LL GIVEcluded : 1 200 baud modem extra 
New $2,200...Asking 1 ,800 Call Dan at DESPERATELY NEED TWO ALABAMA YOU OF THE IN

LOST: LAVENDER FOLDER CONTAIN­1456 ...................... ONE BEERS HER K & K: All I can find is a railroad spike
GA'S. CALL DAVE AT 1598 ANYTIME. HANDS, 4)
ING IMPORTANT PAPERS & PARAP· COME TO CARNIVAL OF CAREERS YOU'LL ENJOY WATCH­and a sledgehammer. so you'll have to HERNALIA IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL NOV.12 3-6pm ING HER DO AN IRISH JIG, 3) SHE'LL 
work around it. T.B. 

X 2702 I finally talked my sister into coming up ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY CONVERT YOU TO THE DEMOCRATIC 
1979 HONDA PRELUDE. 5 SPEED, to NO and now she nedds a BAMA ticketl All SMCND Students are inv1ted PARTY AND ALL LIBERAL CAUSES,

AMf'M STEREO CASSETIE PLAYER, Ms. Eileen Gagel, am looking forward 
Help me out--will offer mucho 2)YOU CAN ASK HER "HOW CATHO·
Would the person who took my INFOR· SUNROOF, CRUSE CONTROL, RUNS to dinner tonight. I'll bring the maps, 
MAL LOGIC book from South dining hall OFFER. $$$$$$$$$$ for GA or Student ticket. Call Interested in graduate school? Attend LIC ARE YOU?" AND 1) SUZIE'S A so don't forget your towel~ -MSC
WELL $900 OR BEST 283­

last Thursday (the 5th) please do me the Beth 1334 CARNIVAL OF CAREERS SUPER PERSON!
4165.AF 9PM OR MOR. courtesy of returning rt sometime before AMY, ERIN, & LISA, How was your stay finals--I desperately need it. HELP! NEED 1 'BAMA GA or STUD 
NIRVANA?ISN'T THAT SW OF NILES?
2 ALA GA 239-7943 at Campus View Saturday night? ··The
CALL DON 2304 

....jljanoy•:l84~ ................. GO THERE ALL THE TIME! DAMN Boys of 159 P.S. You just ease right on I lost an Eddie Bauer jeans jacket GOOD IS RIGHT...YOUR NAME? -THE down, cowboy. (laundry £70507) If you find ij, please call I NEEO ALABAMA TICKETS I CALL BEN LOBBY GIRL 2165. Thanx. ................................................................
AT 1661 

TICKETS 
CONGRATULATIONS, GARY!I Want advice on an academ1c major? At­IT'S 11:00-Do you know where your 
For your 20th BIRTHDAY Lost: a denim jacket with corduroy cuffs I NEED ALABAMA TICKETS! CALL BEN tend CARNIVAL OF CAREERS levator lab1i superions ataque nasi is ?! 
You are entitled to 2 tickets for FREE
AT 1661

and collar left in Washington STUDY BREAKS at LaFortune with--US! 
Hall ... reward if retumed ... call 2n·7137. ................................. ................................................................ SUSAN N. WILL WE EVER PLAY I'OOL (Who else?) Claim them soon while our
HELPIII MY BIG BROTHERS ARE COM­

Want to worl< in Chicago? Attend CAR· AGAIN OR WILL YOU CONTINUE TO funds still last! rvg INA
********************************* 

ING OUT FOR THE ALABAMA GAME IGNORE ME? RSVP-M.
LOST: Blue-jean jacket on Wed. Nov. 4 NIVAL OF CAREERS 
Valid until 1ti!W!B in F-line of North Dining Hall. If found, 
AND I NEED 3 STUD TIX OR GA'S.
I really, really, really need 1 Alabama 
CALL KATHY AT 277·2944call Jeff 1551. 

ticket. 

·s;;;;;&·~~y-iiiiii't;;;;;y..odc;;·;~··i;;&·;;;i~~-~
Student or GA will do. Call John at 283-IF YOU SELL ME YOUR BAMA TIX Ros: We didrf't make Security Beat' 
If you accidentally(?) picked up my brown BAMA STUD FOR SALE to the soul-but that's not important now. We'll have to try harder next time. DPH
2445. (STUDENT OR GA) MAUREEN FIN· 
leather bomber jacket at the party on 1 05 C.ll AI £3211 What is important is that I need 4 (four) NIGAN WILL SLEEP WITH YOU. CALL 
Marquette St.. 7 NOV, Sat. after the cope ................................. tickets to the Bam a game. Student or Logan Volunt-•
RICK 2647

busted the perty. call Mike 1900 to ................................. GA. Will pey. Call Scott at 3217 or 1962. Dance Frldayl 
return. No ?'s asked. I NEED 1 BAMA TICKET (STUDENT OR 8:00 Nl upWATCH OUT NO, 'CUZ TODAY WE'RE 
GA) $$$$$$$$CALL TASHA X4041 SPICULE 
GEniNG SOME 'Bema Game S.turday LOST: a light blue "NOr brand jeanjacket R1ng-Ring . .What color is your .... ? 
BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a MO HUSSEYIIIIII Meet at Logan at Noon on Sat. ft was left in a whrte convertible 
Love, John 
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME HAPPY 21ST MO BABEE! Bring your tlcUial 
on Green field. If found please call 284-NEED 2 GA'S FOR BAMA -WILL BEAT
Big, Big cash offered for BC GA's I'm 

4324. No questions asked. Please help, ANY OFFER. CALL KATHLEEN -3829
holding your family hostage ....................
To the Public Masher from the ROSTA
rt's not minel Please call Chris X 1 489 HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOE AND KIMMIE!! To my Physics Lab Goddess-"I seem to
NEED STUD TIX & GA FOR BAMA CALL party Sat. nrte, LET THE RAGING BEGINI have misplaced my velcro."

2456 I saw you duck under that window! 
NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG Love you, your Roomie
Love, Peter the BC sleazebagBUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 after 
NEED 1 BAMASTUORGAIISUEX2919 P.S. Thanks for saying goodbye. 
6pm. ANGERS? LONDON? IRELAND? To the gang,Shakey.Mom & Dad and
FOR RENT 
TOKYO? Were you there, are you there everyone else who helped make my 20th NEED BAMA TIX, STUDS or GA'S. SS
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? now, or do you hope to be there soon? b-day so special-Thanks! You are all so
Ooooh, you're the one Kelly hed the hots 
Lease thia 2BR apartment now for spring 13<3.£3.1J~I<~·.C:~~-'-111~~-~T_ ..t~-~-·..
IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS Did (do) you m1sa Notre Dame and want wonderiul Love. Kelly
for! I wonder what happened to theeemester and move in anytime. S32&tno. HELt'·Hoch brother coming to see Ala­
WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL to know what's up? Then join forces with 
Golden poet?? 

Includes utilities. Call 232-9239. bama game-He'll pay BIG MONEY for
SUE AT X4238 Student Government's REACH Networl< Mike Woll· Have a great dayl-an admirer GA or stu.ticket-Piease sell him your ex­
and do something--even n just a littleNow showing for IY\IIIIl-&'1!89 lease. BAMA GA 50 YD. UNE $50 OR B tra one-call Katy 271-0924 DING DONG I DING DONG! 

something--about itll We are new and we 88R, 2 bath house on bus Nne. Call 232· Q1e1ter oflw) X4333 It's EASY ELLEN'S want you. Today-Tuesday-at 4:30 in the Ride needed to Detroivrurl<ey Day. Call 9239. ATTENTIONII 20th Birthday Student Government office, 2nd Floor Les 284-4320 need 2 stud tix for bema call pete -4340 Four friendS are coming up from the U. 

LaFortune, come flnd out how you canROOM FOR RENT IN EXCEPTIONALLY of Alabama to watch their tNm get keep in touch with your friends (and Moser:QUIET HOME TWO MILES FROM NEED 2 BAMA GA'S. CALL BOB AT ELLEN YOU'RE PRETTY NO! ITS JUST

sleughleredll ~four ticl<eta or my a-­
foes?) abroad. MDrt Info: Mary B. at Happy 21st!!!

CAMPUS. PHONE 272 3920. 2096. POT GOGGLES! 
ia gr-11 Call Soott at 3217 or 1962. 1284. You are a super friend and prsonl 
Tuesday, November 10, 1987 
The Observer page 9 
Rugby, sailing clubs await post-season play 
The schedule may have been light for club sports last week, but the teams that did compete reached new plateaus. The Rugby Club and the Sailing Club both qualified for post-season action after the suc­cessful weekend. 
The Rugby Club finished its fall campaign Satur­day with a 13-7 victory over Boston College. That left the Irish at 7-1, one of their best marks in recent years. 
"It was a big lift for the team," club vice­president Pat O'Malley said. "We had no idea what to expect because they're from the East, and we don't face that many teams from out there." 
The win over the Eagles virtually assured the Irish of a spot in the Midwest tourney next spring, a tourney that features many of the top teams in the country. That imminent bid along with the 7-1 mark left O'Malley and the rest of the squad pleased with the fall season. 
"We had a lot of high hopes at the beginning of the season," O'Malley said. "A lot of guys had been 
Greg Guffey 
Club Corner 


around before, so we had some experience. Our one big disappointment was the 7-6 loss to Purdue, but we came back strong. We proved we can be strong in the spring season and finish high in the Midwest tourney.'' 
The Sailing Club also saved some of its best for last with a third-place finish in the Area A Regatta Saturday at the University of Michigan. That finish gave the Irish a berth in the Timme Angstrem Regatta in Chicago over Thanksgiving, one of the elite races in the nation with nine teams from the Midwest and nine other top teams from around the country. 
The host Wolverines, ranked ninth in the nation, won the race followed by Michigan State in second. The top three teams qualified for the Timme Angstrem. 
"I knew it would be close, but I thought we could finish in the top three," Club President Mark Ryan said. "It was a good thing for the team; it's the third year in a row that we have qualified. This will be a good indication of how good we are." 

Hockey 
continued from page 12 
final period to provide for the final score of 6-6. 
The Irish dominated the overtime period, getting seven shots on goal to Kent State's one, but could not manage to convert any of their shots in the extra period. 
In all four games of the young season, the Irish have come from behind in either the second or third periods. 
"I'm pleased we've been able to come back," said Schafer. "We haven't given up yet, and that's encouraging. Now I hope we get to the point where we get the lead and hold on to it." 
The Irish face another ACHA rival this weekend with a home­and-home series with the Lake Forest Foresters. The Foresters and the Irish face off at the Joyce ACC Friday. 

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY LAW CENTER Will Be Meeting With Students On NOVEMBER11 11 :00, 1 :00, & 2:00 Sign Up In THE LOWER LIBRARY  

Theology at Saint Mary~s College Spring 1988 1280 Electives RLST 307 The Bible and Women Burns W: 6:00p.m. RLST 380 World Religions Martin MWF: 12:15 p.m. Second Required Courses RLST 213 Experiencing God Malits RLST 240 Catholic Social Thought Incandela and Martin RLST 261 Catholic Faith and Life Murphy RLST 291 Thinking the Future Weiss ND students fulfill their second requirement in theology by taking any of the above second required courses. They fulfill their first requirement by taking RLST 200 at Saint Mary's College. For times of RLST courses, see schedule. ND Registration for SMC Theology Courses ND Seniors Wednesday, November 11 7-9 p.m. 340 O'Shaughnessy ' ND Juniors Thursday, November 12 7-9 p.m. 340 O'Shaughnessy ND Sophomores Tuesday, November 17 7-9 p.m. 340 O'Shaughnessy  

"Everybody expected to be going undefeated in the region practicing this week," said and spreading Notre Dame's

Tourney 

senior keeper Tim Hartigan. name in soccer across the
continued from page 12 

"Everybody thought we were country -we've accomplishedgoing to get in. There was a all these things." 
"In my mind, losing to San chance we wouldn't get in, but Diego State kept us out," said I seriously never though we Until that one day arrives, Grace. "We really dominated would not get in." the team and even Grace have that game. The kids played a bitter feeling towards the their hearts out, we missed Hartigan was one of four committee. some golden opportunities and seniors who played their last "We should be one of the 24 they scored on a penalty kick game in an Irish uniform. teams still practicing," said 
and there it goes." "I expect the kids to be up-Grace. 
set," said Grace. "But I still
••• expect them to keep their heads held high and concentrate on the positive aspects of the 
The announcement also hit season. 

the players hard. Expecting to Special to The Observer 

practice this afternoon, they "One day they'll realize what suddenly had to face the fact they've accomplished. The Non-varsity athletics has an­
that their season is over. chemistry, beating Indiana, nounced the following dead­lines: Tomorrow: 
•One-on-one basketball and
30 SECOND WARNING free throw contest. Two men's divisions, under six feet and
GRACE HALL DEBATES 
over six feet. Competitions will be held Nov. 18 on the arena 
TONIGHT'S TOPIC: floor. Finals of one-on-one will be played at halftime of ND­Prairie View A & M game. 
RESOLVED: 

•Turkey shoot. A team tar­get shooting contest will be held 
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT IS MORALLY 
Nov. 17 and 18 at the Stadium 
JUSTIFIED FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES 
rifle range. Teams of two men and two women must reserve a time in person at NVA.
JUDGE: 

Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non­contact sports. Forms and 
PROFESSOR DAVID O'CONNOR, 
NO PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT 
more information are avail­able in the NVA office. NVA has also announced stu­
WHERE: GRACE HALL PIT 
dent hours for the Joyce weight room. The hours are: 11 a.m.
WHEN: 

TONIGHT. 9:00 PM to 1 p.m. and 6:30-10:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and 1-6
***COMPLIMENTARY REFRESHMENTS, 
p.m. Sunday. There will be a clinic for fac­
NIGHTLY RAFFLE*** ' 
ultyA;taff tomorrow at 12: 10 -COME AND JOIN IN THE GROWING p.m. in the weight room in con­junction with the opening of the
EXCELLENCE 
weight room for general stu­
OF THE GRACE HALL DEBATES 
dent and facultyA;taff use . ::.:: ;:. ::· ...... ;··;: :: :· during scheduled hours. 
~~~torct~a;
~l~\~ __.,c---~~ 
WE NEED YOUR 




il~19JTIIYir! 
IT'S OUR POLICY, SPEAK NOW OR FOREVER HOLD YOUR PEACE/ 
NOV.~. t\~fi7EY(MAIN~6:}0v....; ~~ (10CIAL fP.ACI) B= )0,..... 
~. '.WAl7H(fMI LOCH'l) 6~}0 ; AtllMNI (~ME.-colr~ r(tM) B:?O~. 'tfJV.~(ID·LEWI?'~~~) b:}O,.,..,; lAHM <kW~~rf'IIIUY-) 6:]Q,JJ,. 
~. ~ll· ~LANNEJ\ (PiT) b}O f'.JJ.. ; 6R,ACE (PIT) B=JO PA. NOV.K~:KEENAN (CO~) 6:}0,~; lA~NE.(.-r-EJ;VlloWU) 8}0­

Tuesday, November 10, 1987
page 10 The Observer 
Wrestlers win MSU Invite title in season's first competition 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran McCann said before last weekend that he liked his team's chemistry with the mix of upperclassmen and fresh­
men. 
The Irish proved their coach correct in last weekend's season-opening competition. Two juniors and one freshman won individual championships as Notre Dame won its first­ever Michigan State Invita­
tional title on Sunday. 
"We've been in there every year for about 12 years, and this is the first time we won," said McCann. "It was a good win, a real confidence-builder Durso at 134 pounds and Chris Geneser at 177 pounds and freshman Todd Layton at 150 pounds. For Geneser, it was his first competition at 177 after wrestling for two years in the 167-pound category. 
"Jerry and Chris pretty much dominated their divi­sions," McCann said. "They looked excellent. Geneser beat a two-time champ and an NCAA qualifier from Central Michigan at 177 in the finals. That was good for him, since he was moving up a weight class. Jerry didn't have any trouble. 
Layton was one of a host of freshman to fare well in the In­vite for the Irish. Mark Gerardi placed third at 158 pounds, and Jeff Massey placed fourth in the Tomazic just came out of knee surgery, and he won a couple of matches, but lack of condi­tioning was a factor for him." 

Sophomore 118-pound Andy Radenbaugh and 142-pound junior Pat Boyd both placed second for the Irish. 
While McCann was happy about the eight-team Invite, in which Notre Dame outdis­tanced Central Michigan for first place, he also saw much room for improvement. 
"It was a good effort by everyoned, but we're capable of wrestling a lot better," said McCann. "We didn't execute well, and our technique wasn't sharp. Our conditioning was really good, but we've still got a lot we need to do." 
Notre Dame's next competi--.." 
\ 
'I 
' 
,· 
I' 
1: 
i' 
for  us.  We had six first-year  heavyweight division.  tion will  be  at  the St.  Louis  
people in the lineup, so you got  "They showed  some  fresh­ Open on Nov. 21. Oklahoma and  
to feel happy about that."  man  mistakes, but really put  Wisconsin  are  two  of  the  
Individual winners for Notre  on a nice performance," said  strongest teams competing in  
Dame included juniors Jerry  McCann.  "(167-pound  Tom)  the open tournament.  

Twins reliever files for free agency 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Eighteen players, including relief pitcher Juan Berenguer of the World Series champion Min­nesota Twins, Detroit's Frank Tanana and Houston's Jose Cruz, filed for free agency Mon­day as the midnight deadline approached. 
The additions brought the total of free agents to 76 of a possible 95 players. Last year, 
79 players declared free ,.....-----------;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~;;;~;;;
c

agency but only Andre Dawson 
and  Lance  Parrish  changed  
teams  before  the  season  
started.  

Also, pitchers Jeff Reardon of Minnesota and Greg Harris of
Texas and infielder Alfredo Griffin of Oakland officially demanded trades. Midnight was the deadline for making that move, which, like declar­ing free agency, is often a negotiating tool. 
Others declaring for free agency Monday were pitchers Tommy John of the New York Yankees, Joaquin Andujar of Oakland, Ed Lynch and Dickie Noles and infielder Manny 

I I
J. ~~ 
~VIles you to a " I -.............. 


Career -Industry Presentation 
on Wednesday, November 11, 1987 from 7 pm to 9 pm in the Notre Dame Room of Morris Inn 
Winery Management (all of which are NO Alumni) will present a brief review of the wine industry and discuss career opportunities with the most highly respected sales and sales management force in the industry. 
I 

Que:tions are welcomed, refreshments wF be served 
2 1~ 
2







COPIES 
BY! x ll white 20# auto-fed NOW OPEN!!! 

*across the street from Corktown Liquors 
271-0398 

Introducing Nightclub Night at Theodore's 
with 

THE MAGIC AND COMEDY OF 

BOB GARNER 
Erljoy a nightclub atmosphere with your friends while your class officers serve you refreshments {rom the full food and drink bar. 
lht"FOLLOWING SHOW 
Thursday, Nov. 12 
9:00pm (doors open at 8:30pm) 
Sponsored by SUB, Class of '89,'90, and '91 
• ~ • AP Photo After a 30·14 victory over the Seattle Seahawks at home on Monday night, Bob Crable (50) and the New York Jets moved Into a tie for first place In the AFC East. All five teams In the division are tied with Identical 4·4 records. 
ROSS UNIVERSITY Guaranteed student loans for both schools 

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE American Medical School Curriculum. High pass rate on ECFMG. Guaranteed clinical rotations. 
U.S. Medical Schools are accepting Ross students with advanced standing. Listed In WHO. 
SCHOOL OF VETERINARY MEDICINE American Veterinary School curriculum. Listed In AVMA Directory. Only foreign vet school doing clinical rotations In USA. Vet school accepting students with advance standing. 
Now accepting applications for both schools for Spring, Fall and Winter semesters. 
Information: International Educational Admissions, Inc.. 460 West 34th St. New York, NY 10001, (212) 279-5500 
All interested acts should contact Maura at 239-7757 Sponsored by SUB. 

or 283-2745 
Trillo of the Chicago Cubs; pitcher Mike LaCoss, out­fielder Eddie Milner and utilityman Joel Youngblood of San Francisco; outfielder Ken Griffey and infielder Graig Nettles of Atlanta; utilityman Jamie Quirk of Kansas City; pitcher Mark Clear of Mil­waukee; outfielder Ken Landreaux of Los Angeles; pitcher Moose Haas .of Oak­land, and pitcher Greg Minton of California. 

Two of the key potential free agents third baseman Mike Schmidt of the Philadelphia Phillies and shortstop Cal Rip­ken Jr. of the Baltimore Orioles -were negotiating with their clubs Monday. 
Tuesday, November 10, 1987 
The Observer page 11 

The Daily Crossword
·Campus 
12 p.m.: Kellogg Seminar -Brown Bag Lunch -"Economic Development, Social Change, and Political Contestation and Inclusion in South America" by Evelyne Huber Stephens, Assoc. Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University and the University of California, Irvine. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
10:30 p.m. -12 a.m.: Sophomore Class Ice Skating Party, North Dome-JACC, Free admission, Skate rental -$1.00. Hot chocolate and cookies will be served. 
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Pizza Calzones  Roast Sirloin  
Make Your Own Burrito Bar  Stuffed Fish w/ Broccoli  
Egg Foo Young  Spinach Crepes  
Roast Beef  Deli Bar  




ACROSS 1 Bird 6 Mark for 
removal 10 "-Amore" 13 Jeweled 
ornament 14 -orange 15 Oriental 
drama 16 Like a ghost 18 Books expert 19 Kernel 20 Improve 21 Empty space 22 Many years 24 Holding of 
lands 26 Severe trial 31 Plugs 32 Criticize 33 Greeting word 35 Golf stroke 37 Homolka 39 Necessary: 
abbr. 40 Perceived 42 Shoshonean © 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 11/10187
All Rights Reserved
people 43 Reliance 45 Wedding 4 Lessened by 
announce-degrees 
ment word 5 Sailor 46 Goes quickly 6 Confront 48 Cutting 7 Happening 
instruments 8 Sluggish 
50 Lines 9 Pipe bend 53 Circulated 10 Changeable 54 Cusp 11 Theme 
55 Persian wheel 12 Disreputable
62 Mellow 17 Jury 63 Out of 21 Non-specific keeping 23 Marine 
65 Daystar mammals 66 Lombardy 25 Petroleum commune distillate 67 Jibe 26 Peak in the 68 Encountered Philippines 

i* * Happy Birthday, i* * 

69 Solar disk 27 Money 44 Rawboned · 57 Posada 
* ~ * Dave Mitchell! * ~ * 
animal 59 Angry

70 Gr. letter 28 Disjointed 29 Classify 47 Braided cord 60 Fat DOWN 30 Heat measure 49 Fully 61 Needing
~ From Steve ~ 34 -50 Gorge
regia guidance

1 Cornelia ­Skinner 36 Corner 51 Scamp 63 "-Yan­52 Plinth kee .••" 
2 Port

~ (your roommate)~ 38 Of bees 
3 Tatting 41 -Plaines 56 Certain equine 64 Informer 
t***********************************************t 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


The Morning After 

Wednesday & Thursday 
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 pm Engineering Auditorium $2.00 
-~-~-·--­
Sports 
Tuesday, November 10, 1987
page 12 
NCAA soccer tournament snubs Irish 

By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
Slam! 

That was the sound of the NCAA Tournament selection committee shutting the door in the face of the Irish soccer team. 
Early Monday morning the team learned that it would not be one of 24 teams to partici­pate in this year's post-season tournament. Indiana and Evansville were the two teams given the automatic bids from the Great Lakes region. The region received no at-large bids. 
''The NCAA committee is missing a very good team," said an upset Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "We deserved to be there. There's got to be room for the kind of a season we had." 
The Irish matched, if not exceeded, everyone's expecta-
The Observer 1 Suzanne Poch tions this season, compiling a Paul LaVIgne (23) and Mike Drury (22) chase after the ball In a Sept. 17-3-1 record, going undefeated 13 game with lndlana1111he 4·3 overtime win over the Hoosiers in the Great Lakes region and was one of many highlights In a season that saw the Irish soccer defeating Indiana for the first team do almost everything except get an NCAA tournament berth. time in their 10-year history. 
17-3-1 record is not quite enough 
In the end, what hurt the 
Irish  was  the  absence  of  
Evansville  from  their  
schedule.  

"This year supposedly the lack of Evansville kept us from going to the tournament," said Grace. "In fact the exact words I got were that we sidestepped them." 
The word came from Joe Baum, head coach of Michigan State and the head of the Great Lakes regional tournament se­lection committee which deter­mined the final regional rankings and recommended to the national committee which teams should get bids. 
Grace said that the two schools had tried to work out a date last spring, but Evansville gave an ultimatum for only one possible date. Notre Dame could not play on that date, and thus the match was not sched­uled. 
"Joe Baum said he did every­thing he could to get us in,'' said Grace, "but that it wasn't a sit­uation where he could bargain and wheel-and-deal to get Notre Dame in. 
"But it was clear that he wasn't told our side of the scheduling problem, and for that reason the committee wasn't informed. Evansville could have told him anything." 
With the aid of a power­rating system, the committee ranked Evansville ahead of Notre Dame even though the Aces had lost two games in the region, to Indiana and Cleveland State. 
Evansville, however, played eight matches against Top-20 teams, winning four of them, while the Irish won one out of three matches. 
"It's ironic that in the past I've been criticised for compil­ing such a difficult schedule for the team," said Grace. 
In looking at his own team's performance in relation to the bid, Grace felt that the San Diego State match was the deciding factor. In that game the eighth-ranked Aztecs scored on a penalty kick with three minutes remaining to beat the Irish 1-0. 
see TOURNEY, page 9 
I 
l I 
1{
I 
ND, Kent State all tied up in weekend hockey action 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Usually, when a hockey team scores 11 goals in two games, it can count on being pretty suc­cessful. 
But while the Irish scored five goals Friday and tallied six more on Saturday, the Kent State offense had just as much luck with Notre Dame defense. The weekend ended for the Irish with 5-5 and 6-6 ties against their American Col­legiate Hockey Association rival. 
"Offensively, we scored a lot of goals, and the power play worked well,'' said Irish coach Ric Schafer, whose team now stands at 1-1-2. "We need to do a better job of avoiding penalties and killing penalty situations when they do occur." 
Actually, Notre Dame was 
pretty fortunate to get away with a tie in Friday's game at Kent State. The Flashes, now 3-7-2, had a 3-llead early in the second period, with Notre Dame's lone goal coming from senior captain and center Mike McNeill. 
\ ""'~· '" 
\.~.-~!/ Mike McNeill 

Two power play goals, both in the second period, by wings Bruce Guay and Bob Herber, tied the game at 3-3, but Kent State scored a power play goal with fifty seconds left in the period to take a 4-3 lead after forty minutes. 

The Flashes built their lead to 5-3 five minutes into the per­iod, but then the Irish put to­gether their second comeback of the game. McNeill scored his second goal of the evening and fifth goal of the season on a power play with seven minutes remaining. Then, Guay tied the score with just 21 seconds left in regulation time. It was the second goal of the game and the fourth goal of the year for the sophomore New Smithfield, R.I., native. 
Both teams made seven shots on goal in the overtime, but nei­ther team managed to score. For the entire game, Kent State had 50 shots on goal as com­pared to 40 for the Irish. Goalie Lance Madson recorded 45 saves for Notre Dame. 
"Lance played well," said Schafer. "We have to do a bet­ter job of helping him out." 
In Saturday's game, it was the Irish getting off to the fast start, leading 4-2 after one per-

Bruce Guay 

iod. But in a second period that saw 15 penalties, the Flashes made the best of the situation, scoring twice on power plays to tie the game at 4-4 after two periods. 
Center Bob Bilton helped the Irish regain the lead with a shorthanded goal less than three minutes into the final per­iod. Kent State answered with two power play goals to give the Flashes a 6-5 lead with seven minutes left. All of Kent State's goals on Saturday came on power plays. 
"They were in the power play situation an awful lot, it was in the penalty killing where we got hurt the most," said the first-year Irish coach. "I guess it's just combining the two sys­tems of what they're used to doing and what I'm recom­mending." 
For the second consecutive game, Guay provided the dramatics for the Irish, scoring on the power play 15: 26 into the 
see HOCKEY, page 9 
SMC flag football still sparks enthusiasm 
On a cloudy Sunday afternoon on the first of No­vember the Saint Mary's flag football league began its season. The late start of the season is accounted to the fact that there had been no plans for all-girl football teams. 
The strong interest of past players and coaches initiated the organization of the all-girl league. When the players heard there would be only a co-ed league, they got in touch with the veterans from 
last year and asked if they wanted to play on an all-girl team. 
The league includes teams representing the three halls of Holy Cross, LeMans and McCandless. The three groups of coaches had some contacts within the dorms they are now coaching which brought the team and coaches together. 
The season-opener pitted LeMans against McCandless Hall. The game started rather slowly because the teams were not familiar with the plays and reading the other team. Mter some vicious encounters, the game ended in a 6-6 tie. 
LeMans is headed by the veteran coach Craig Simon, who helped coach McCandless Hall last season. Trey Gordon, Joe Linnen, and Marty Watts assist in coaching the team, which is a mixture of experienced and rookie players. 
"We have an intricate offensive scheme,"said Simon "but our linewomen are essential to our game." 
Rich Reynolds heads the McCandless team as­sisted by Mark Naumann, Dave O'Bryan and Mike Shannon. Reynolds, a player and coach for the off­
~~~~ n"""'
Saint Mary's Sports Editor , .. 
campus intramural team for the last two years, was requested to coach McCandless from some girls in the dorm. 
"We had to start from scratch when we began coaching the girls," said Reynolds. "We are stick­ing to the basics." 
In last Sunday's game, McCandless faced the Holy Cross team and lost by a score of 14-13. 
McCandless scored first, but Holy Cross was able to score twice before McCandless got a touchdown with one second left in the game. 
Holy Cross saved the victory by stopping McCand­less on the final extra-point attempt. Tim Neroni is the head coach of Holy Cross, having been asked by Julie McNish and other Holy Cross players to co3ch the team. 
Kevin Hipskind, Kevin Kennedy, Pete Tisser and Kevin Ward assist Neroni in coaching the team and have enjoyed the experience of coaching an all-girl team. 
Both the players and the coaches seem to prefer the all-girl league to a co-ed one. The season unfor­tunately looks to be a short one, since the league is so small and the temperatures are also decreasing. There has been some mention of starting play again 
., in the spring. Even though the games have been few in number the competitive spirit is strong and the close scores prove it. Granted, Saint Mary's flag football has not had a conventional season but it has been filled with excitement for all the teams. 







