The Right Stuff -page 9 

VOL. XXI, NO. 113 THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma11·'s 
ISSOGfilm promoted by actor today 
By KAREN WEBB Assistant News Editor 
Gearing up for the Interna­
tional Summer Special Olym­
pic Games OSSOG) Jim 
Troesh, alias "Scotty" on 
NBC's "Highway to Heaven," 
will speak at a reception today 
on campus introducing a film 
he is currently producing for 
the ISSOG volunteer orienta­
tion program. 
Troesh, a quadraplegic, will 
address a group of more than 
200 invited ISSOG staff mem­
bers and volunteers and media 
personnel at the Center for Con­
tinuing Education today at 5. 
According to Pat Foster, IS­
SOG marketing and public re­
lations assistant, Troesh will be 
addressing the ISSOG Board of 
Directors, chairmen and mem­
bers of steering committees 
which correspond to the six or­
ganizational divisions, and 
other active members and vol­
unteers. 
The volunteer orientation 
program for the summer 
games begins April 25 and will 
feature Troesh's movie, cur­
rently being filmed in the 
WNDU parking lot, Foster 
said. 
Foster said of today's recep­
tion, "It will be a sharing of 
good feelings. It's one more 
step toward the games ... It 
should be quite a party." 
A pre-orientation reception 
preceeds a Logan Center 
meeting at which the names of 
the five atheletes from the St. 
Joseph County area participat­
ing in the Olympics program 
will be announced. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senate Democrats, after failing a third time to choke off a Republican­led filibuster, abandoned on Wednesday their drive to force President Reagan to fully ac­count for all assistance flowing to Nicaragua's Contra rebels. 
The Senate vote of 54-46 in favor of cutting off the filibuster was six votes short of the total needed to end debate. However, it provided evidence that there may be a Senate majority ready to reject new aid installments. 
"The vote bodes well for hal­


ting Contra aid next fall," said Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., the deputy Democratic leader. 
"The 54 majority vote to stop the filibuster clearly reflects the erosion of support for the Contras," Cranston said. "It shows the growing concern over the cover-up of what hap­pened to the money for the Con­tras, money that has either vanished or gone into illegal channels." 
Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., was more cautious. 
He had said earlier in the week he wanted to show that a "constitutional majority" of at least 51 votes could be rallied against Contra aid. 
But Byrd told reporters on Wednesday that reaching that 

The Observer!Paul Oeschger level now does not automati­Roped Off cally mean the Senate will defeat Reagan's request for an­
This ominous boundary rope protects the current restoration of 
additional $105 million for the
Sacred Heart Church from wayward pedestrians. 
Contras when it reaches the 



Support of contras declining in Senate 
Senate floor this fall. 
"The $105 million will have a hard time," Byrd said. "But events between now and then could affect votes -including mine." 
He cited possible new dis­closures or conclusions from the congressional investiga­tions of the Iran-Contra affair as well as unexpected events in Central America. 
At the same time, Byrd renewed appeals for the Reagan administration to "get behind" the peace proposals of Costa Rican President Oscar Arias and to shift emphasis away from current policies which he said place excessive reliance on military force. 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass., said Wednesday's vote made clear that "the handwrit­ing is on the wall that the cur­rent installment of U.S. mili­tary aid is the last installment." 
"I urge the administration to use the coming months to move away from its failed policy of military victory as quickly as possible, and to develop the sort of bipartisan diplomatic initiative that is worthy of the United States and our proper role in the hemisphere," Ken­nedy said. 
The filibuster by Contra-aid supporters prevented action on a House-passed resolution to freeze a $40 million aid install­
ment, origmauy approveu 1a:sL year, to permit time for a full accounting of all money, private as well as public, which has reached the Contras. 

Arrest of espionage suspect triggers wide security probe 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The arrest of a second Marine suspected of espionage while working as an embassy guard in Moscow has triggered a wide-ranging security probe at the embassy, the State Department said Wednesday. 
"We are treating this as a very serious breach of our se­curity," said spokesman Charles Redman, referring to the arrest of Cpl. Arnold Bracy, 21, from the New York City borough of Queens. 
"A full-scale counter­intelligence investigation is being conducted in coordina­tion with other appropriate federal agencies. We're looking at every aspect of se­curity at the embassy in Mos­cow." 
The corps said Bracy had been arrested because of evidence uncovered in the con­tinuing probe of Sgt. Clayton Lonetree, 25, a former guard arrested in December on spying charges. 
The corps said the two men worked together in Moscow from July 1985 to March 1986. 
Lonetree has been accused of passing to the Russians the names and photographs of American intelligence agents attached to the Moscow embas­sy's staff. He also has been accused of providing the Soviets with descriptions of floor plans and office assign­ments for the embassies in Moscow and Vienna, where he also worked as a guard. 
Redman said the State De­partment had launched "a worst-case damage assess­ment so that every aspect of security at our embassy in Moscow will be investigated as a result of these two cases." 
"We have no reason to believe that this is a worldwide problem," Redman added. "We have 1,400 Marines sta­tioned at 134 posts throughout the world" and "this is the first incident of this type in our 40­year relationship with the 
see MARINES, page 6 

University honors Joyce with chair 
By SEAN HICKEY The chair was made possible Senior Staff Reporter by a donor who desires anonymity, according to Hes-
University President Father burgh. Theodore Hesburgh recently announced the creation of a new University chair in honor of Executive Vice President Father Edmund Joyce. 
The chair will be occupied by Brazilian social anthropologist Roberto Augusto DaMatta, beginning in the 1987-88 aca­demic year. 

"I'm very, very pleased,"said Joyce. "I never expected or anticipated this honor. It is particularly Father Edmund Joyce 


gratifying that it happened my final year after 35 years as ex-Anthropology department ecutive vice president." Chairman Carl O'Nell said 
"I know it will please all who DaMatta was chosen because have known Father Joyce in his "he has an international posi­35 years of service to the Uni-tion, he's visited (the U.S.) a versity to see his contribution number of times, and he has a recognized in an endowed lot of experience in graduate professorship,"said Hesburgh. programs in the Brazilian Uni­
"lt's a tribute commen-versity System." surate with the stewardship it Provost Timothy O'Meara honors," he added. said, "The appointment on this internationally known anthropologist will enhance the development of this young dis­cipline at the University. 
"I'm very, very pleased with the appointment. (DeMatta) can make valuable contributions to the depart­ment and the University," O'Meara added. 
DaMatta has taught at both Oxford and Cambridge univer­sities and the London School of Economics. He also has taught at the universities of Illinois and Wisconsin. 
Since 1970, DaMatta has been a professor in social anthropoloy of the Museu Nacional Universidade Federal in Rio de Janeiro. 
He received his masters and 

doctoral degrees from Harvard 
University in 1967 and 1971. His 
chief interest is in structural 
anthropology, particularly in 
cultural expressions of behav­
ior in games and secular 
rituals. 


In Brief 
China must push ahead this year with economic reform in spendmg and productivity, while eliminating the "pernicious influence" of Western liberal thought Premier Zhao Ziyang told the opening session of the Na­tional People's Congress on Wednesday. Zhao told the 2,719 delegates gathered for their annual 16-day meeting the country "must unswervingly push ahead all-round reform of the economic structure so as to maintain steady, sus­tained economic growth." Zhao also said China has suc­cessfully curbed "bourgeois liberalization," which he said was the result of "weak and lax" leadership.-Associated Press 
Seven Saint Mary's faculty members have been chosen as recipients of faculty research awards. Those honored are: Phil Bays, Chemistry; Robert Drevs, Busi­ness; Nancy Nekvasil, Biology; David Pilgrim, Sociology; Pamela,Plouhar, Chemistry; John Rube, Business; and Doris Watt, Biology. In addition, three mini-grant awards were given to Renee Kingcaid, Modern Languages; Nancy Menk, Music; and Mary Martucci, Nursing. -The Observer 
Three businessmen were indicted Wednesday en federal tax charges for creating limited partnerships, some involving celebrities, that allegedly generated $350 million in false tax deductions. The 31-count indictment listed a number of business and entertainment celebrities as limited partners in two of the partnerships, including actors Lorne Greene, Michael Landon and Sidney Poitier, television producer Norman Lear and CBS chairman Laurence Tisch. The celebrities were not named as defen­dants in the indictment. -Associated Press 
"Dynasty" star Joan Collins had angry w?rds for airline workers recently when she was refused a frrst­class seat on a flight to Los Angeles, witnesses said. "Miss Collins is a valued customer, but unfortunately her late arrival and the heavy demand for seats meant that this was unavoidable," said a spokeswoman for British Air­ways. A British news agency said passengers looked on in amazement while the angry actress berated airline employees. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"A Gap in Generations," will be presented by Cavanaugh Hall Productions. The 16th century Italian comedy set on a contemporary college campus will be performed at 7:30 tonight, Friday, and Saturday in Wash­ington Hall. -The Observer 
"The Difficulties of Commitment in Inter­national Law" will be presented by Professor Inis L. Claude from the University of Virginia at noon Friday in Room 101 of the Law School. The lecture is sponsored by the Law School and the International Law Society. -The Observer ' 
Clarinetist Kelly Burke and pianist Melissa Rose from the University of Michigan will perform in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre tonight at 8. The event is part of The Saint Mary's College Graduate Artist Recital Se­ries. -The Observer 

Weather 
Sunshine and 90 degree tempera­tures are expected in Miami. In South Bend, however, it will be cloudy today with highs in the mid to upper 40s. Mostly cloudy tonight with lows in the mid to upper 30s. A 30 percent chance of rain Friday with highs in the upper 40s to low 


50s. -Associated Press 

Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lisa Tugman Typeaetters ........................... Jose Novas ............. ,, .... ,, ...... ,,,, ... Becky Gunderman News Editor ... , .................... Cathy Stacy Copy Editor ..................... Rob Hennig Sports Copy Editor., . . . . . . . .. . . Terry Lynch Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick 
Viewpoint Layout ............... Alice Groner Accent Copy Editor ......... Cindy Petrites Accent Layout................. Heather Hypes Typists..... . .... , . . . . . . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ................. Jane Kravcik Ad Design .......... , ............ David Culligan Photographer .... , ............. Paul Oeschger 

"'(M Olllener (USPS 599· 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Olllener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
TM Obsener is a member of Tbe Auodllted Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Drug tests: An infringement on rights of players, workers 
Imagine the dilemma. 
As time is running out, the university's star point guard is dribbling down the court. The score is tied. His basket would win the game for his team. He glances at the clock. He glances to the left and sees his coach. He glances to the right and sees the NCAA drug marshall. Sud­
denly, sinking the basket and winning the game 
does not seem like as good of a deal: The win­ning team's players must face the little bottles. 
In this year's NCAA basketball tournament, association officials have instituted a drug test­ing program which has caused perhaps the highest degree of personal embarrassment and the greatest amount of personal infringement on a citizen's rights that has of yet occurred in such a program. 
After each game, the winning team has about 10 minutes or so to celebrate and have their post-game talk. Then, as the players hit the showers, the NCAA "marshalls" begin to come into the lockerroom. 
Each of the eight marshalls is assigned to a player -the five starters, the two substitutes with the most playing time, and a randomly­chosen player. 
As the players come out of the showers, the marshalls check their clipboards and have the staff point out which player is which. And even as they dress, uncomfortable players must en­dure the glances of marshalls from across the room. 
The staff and the other players board the bus and return to the motel. The chosen eight are taken next door for "testing." 
College tests are never easy and some players have found drug tests to be no exception. Dehydration sometimes leads to an embarrass­ing situation which no person should ever have to face. The players are "detained" until they give a sample. 
Of course, the marshalls provide distilled water and apple juice to hurry things along. But some players still have ended up staying at the test site for hours into the morning. 
There also has been controversy about the penalties involved. Currently, a player who tests positive is excluded from further playoff competition, but there is no penalty for the team as a whole. They don't have to forfeit the game. The NCAA may institute team sanctions next year. ' 
Besides just having their pride hurt, some players may be hurting themselves physically. Because coaches are unsure of the test's sen­sitivity, some coaches have forbidden players who have the flu from taking even aspirin for fear that it might cause a positive drug test reading. 
But in most cases, the main effect of the test-
Jim Riley 
News Editor 

______________...__ 


ing of basketball players has been public em­
barrassment. While no person should have to 
put up with this humiliation and violation of his 
rights, the "side-effects" of drug testing for bas­
ketball players are just short-term. 
Other people, about whom we rarely hear, may be facing long-term problems because of drug testing. Government agencies and private corporations have begun to give their employees drug tests. In many cases the result of a positive test is dismissal from work. Despite the fad that the accuracy of these tests is uncertain at times, many companies use the results as a license to put a detour in some­body's career path. 
These people could also complain that their rights are being violated, but, in a practical sense, there is much more involved here than just a matter of principle. It is a matter of livelihood. 
The NCAA testing program may have focused national attention on drug-testing, but the col­lege basketball player who suffers embarrass­ment doesn't have nearly as much to lose as does the corporation employee who doesn't use drugs but tests positive. 
It's scary to think that an employee who is asked to fill a little bottle might soon be filling a cardboard box with the things he emptied from his desk. 

The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur Qfflces and start wqrklng Qn yqur newspaper. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIE1Y~
+ 
FOR SALE BY 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
AUTOS 
79 Pontiac Bonneville AM-fM Cassette, 5spd. Loaded. $6700 
81 Buick Park Ave. Loaded. $5000 
83 Ford Escort, AMtFM Cassette, 4spd. Clean. $3000 
84 Reliant K Wagon 

TRUCKS 
85 Chevy Astro Cargo Van, Standard Options $8000 
85 Ford Pickup, 5th Wheel 4spd, Dual Tanks, Trailer Hitch & Brakes. $7670 
MOTORCYCLE 
84 Harley Davidson, Purple, 65 Elcona 
(2 Bedroom) 
$3000 
Can been seen 
only by appointment 

Good condition. $4900 Great Shape. $3000 
84 Ford Escort, AM Radio, Nice. $3650 
86 Nissan Pulsar, AMtFM Cassette, 5spd. $7670 
Now on display at the Main Office on 19033 Douglas Road. Or Call Robert Outly for more information at 239-5646. 


----~---~-­
Thursday, March 26, 1987 -page 3 


Senate seeks access to bank records 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senate at­torneys sought a court order Wednesday to force former Maj. Gen. Richard Secord to wve th~m access to records of t<ireign bank accounts that in­vestigators believe he con­trolled as part of the Iran­Contra connection. 
In a U.S. District Court filing, the Senate said Secord should be held in contempt if he refuses to comply with a valid court order. The Senate author-
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR, El Sal­vador -Hundreds of college stu­dents shoved past police at the 
U.S. embassy on Tuesday and stood chanting "Yankee assas­sins!" on the seventh anniver­sary of the murder of Arch­bishop Oscar Romero. 
They daubed anti-American slogans -"yankee invader!" "Yankee go home!" -on em­bassy walls, burned a rag-and­

preme Court, upholding an af­

Committee approves 1988 budget 
firmative action plan for 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Democrats on the House Budget Commit­tee, only hours after President Reagan blamed them for hold­ing up the budget process, reached tentative agreement late Wednesday on a fiscal1988 
r-------------------------Democrats, working alone be­adopt affirmative action plans 
ized the step in a vote last week. 
Secord has cited his Fifth Amendment right against self­incrimination in refusing to comply with a request from the Senate investigating commit­tee that he sign an order direct­ing foreign banks to make available the information. 
Investigators, including the presidentially appointed Tower commission, say the former Air Force officer helped orga­nize shipments of weapons to Iran and the Nicaraguan rebels, making use of Swiss 
paper effigy of Uncle Sam on the sidewalk and marched away, shouting other anti-U.S. slogans. 
Romero was killed March 24, 1980, while saying Mass at a small hospital chapel in the capital. A lone gunman fired a single low-caliber bullet from a rifle into the Roman Catholic prelate's heart and fled. 
No one was ever arrested. The U.S. embassy is consid­ered the symbol of U.S. support 
spending plan. 
"We have reached a tenta­tive agreement," committee Chairman William Gray III, D-Pa., announced after a meeting broke up after 11 p.m. EST. 

Gray declined to disclose details of the plan, but the com­mittee was working from a 
..~owe~ ~Oit aQQ occogtong_~~ 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 
232~3354 





RENTALS 
No Deposit Ask about our 
Free Membership 95t student club membership!
No Hassle 

per day 
• 
(2 day min) 
"Early Bird Special" 


(blockbuster and Premium Movies -N/A) 

512 W. Edison Mishawaka 256-0226 55011 Mayflower South Bend  •Curtis ! IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMathes ~  
288-8348  HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER  :  

female workers, ruled Wednes­framework designed to day employers may give spe­produce deficit reduction of at cial preferences in hiring and least $36 billion, half from tax promoting women to create a increases. By congressional es­more balanced workforce. timates, that deficit reduction By a 6-3 vote, the justices would be the same or greater said a 1964 civil rights law ban­than Reagan's budget pro­ning on-the-job discrimination posal. allows such preferential treat­
Gray said the committee ment. Also, employers may bank accounts under his con­trol. 

Two members of the House committee, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said there was no evidence to dispute President Reagan's statement that he did not know funds were apparently being diverted from Iran arms sales to the Contra rebels fighting the Nicaraguan government. 
The two sessions took place amid unusual concern about secrecy. 
for the Salvadoran govern­ment, which has not solved the case or halted the civil war. 
APphoto

The students also charge that the government still is corrupt American clergy joined in a march recently to commemorate and repressive. the political murder of Archbishop Oscar Romero seven years The demonstration was one ago. Story at left. of several planned to com­memorate the death of the 62­
year-old archbishop, who in his Justices' decision hailed as 
Sunday homilies denounced the violence from left and right 

victory for women's rights 
prevailing in this small Central 
American country. Associated Press WASHINGTON -The Su­
cause Republicans were without admitting past dis­
boycotting the process, had crimination against women. produced "a strong, credible The decision was hailed bypackage that moves in the right 
some as a momentous victory

direction with cuts in spending for women's rights. that are real but fair." ­
"It vindicates our historic po-


fNDAVE"APTs.l 
I 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completelyfurnished 
§  Sign up before break and  ~  
~  receive a 10% discount  ~  
§  Call 234-6647  §  
~  Protected  by  Pinkerton  Security  ~  

i.~o.Q><Q-.•.Q>•.Q>.q,.Q>~!~J....q-..q-....q.~._q.·.q>.q-•...q,~ 


Applications are now being accepted for 


1988 DOME Editor-in-Chief 


• 
Applications available in Student Activities Office. 

• 
Must be returned to Student Activities by 4:30 on Wednesday, April 1 . 

• 
Everyone encouraged to apply. 





sition that sex discrimination, like race discrimination, can be remedied by the use of af­firmative action measures," said Judith Lichtman, execu­tive director of the Women's Legal Defense Fund. 
As it has in a series of affirm­ative action cases, the court rejected the Reagan adminis­tration's position. Justice De­partment lawyers had argued that individual rights should not be sacrificed in the interest of "casual social engineering." 
The court rejected an appeal by Paul Johnson, who was denied promotion to road dis­patcher by the Santa Clara County Transportation Agency in California. 
The job went to Diane Joyce, who Johnson said was less qualified than himself. 
The court said Johnson, who scored two points higher than Joyce on a test, may have been minimally more qualified for the job. But the justices empha­sized their ruling does not mean unqualified people will be hired or promoted. 
"Sex is but one of several fac­tors that may .be taken into ac­count in evaluating qualified applicants for a position," Justice William Brennan wrote for the court. 
The court's dissenters said the ruling perverts the 1964 law "into a powerful engine of rac­ism and sexism." 


Hundreds retnember bishop's death 
----~----­
J ! ~\PrlCNS ~ :R:>SITIOJS ~t> APPL\CA"T\0"-lS AVA\L-6.SLE:. l~ ~ T OF-F\<' ES ­2.t-Jt> FLCXl?-LA~. A.PPL\CA.\\~ oue, &'( 4"CC>~ -FIZ\l::aA.Y~ ~\L $.  


~-------------·-­
The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1987 -page 5 
Soviet media return Stalin 
News announces staff promotions
to a place in Russian history 
Associated Press victory over Nazi Germany. 
In past weeks, however, 

MOSCOW-From a poet's la­state-run media have printed ment to articles on World War articles questioning Stalin's po­II, the Soviet press is now litical and military judgment trying to deal with the legacy and verse recalling that during of dictator Josef Stalin. his rule millions of people 
Stalin, who ruled the Soviet vanished into labor camps. Union from 1924 until his death The latest publications are in 1953, was exalted as a genius clearly linked to Soviet leader during his lifetime. He became Mikhail Gorbachev's cam­a virtual non-person in the paign for openness that has state-controlled Soviet press permitted wider discussion of after Nikita Khrushchev some social issues since he denounced Stalin's "cult of per­came to power in March 1985. sonality" in 1956. But Stalin's legacy is a more 
Since then, official mention controversial subject than of the former leader has been most because more than three largely limited to his role as decades after his death his generalissimo in World War II. name still evokes strong and Stalin has been lauded as the conflicting emotions among his architect of the Red Army's countrymen. 

'(;~~
of 20% Discount sale items N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 



Whatifyou
don't get into 
the schOol of 

your choice? 
Ofrourse, you may get into some other school,but why settle?Prepare for the admissions exam yOO.re fadng-be it SAT, LSAT, GMAT, GRE, MCAT, or others-with the best test prep rompany. Stanley H. Kaplan. 
For nearly 50 years, Kaplan's test-taking tech­
niques have prepared over one million students, 
boosting their scoring power and test ronfidence. 
So call Kaplan. WID[ go to just arrr school.when youcangototheoneyou want? 

IKAPLAN 
STAIILIY H. WlAIIIDIKlllOIW. ami LID. 
THE WORLDS LEADING TEST PREP ORGANIZATION 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
\'!,1 
~ \~:\.-~\

*CLASSES 
* I NDEPE.N)EN'f STIDY ~~~~~· *NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS 
s 

*TRANSFER 01 S<Xl..NTS! 
Observer Staff Report  former copy editor. Scott Bearby, a  Notre  Rob Hennig, a sophomore from Gaylord, Mich., and  
The Observer News De­ Dame  junior  and  former  Tim  O'Keefe,  a  freshman  
partment announces the fol­ Viewpoint Editor from Ham­ from Manalapan, N.J., have  
lowing recent promotions.  mond, Ind., will return to the  been  named  copy  editors.  
Karen  Webb,  a  Saint  position of Assistant News  Saint Mary's College junior  
Mary's College junior from  Editor,  and  Regis  Coccia  Diane Schroeder from Fox  
Baltimore,  Md.,  has  been  will  continue  at  Assistant  River Grove, Ill.  has also  
promoted to Assistant News  News Editor.  been promoted to the posi­ 
Editor.  Webb is  a  former  Jim Winkler, a sophomore  tion of copy editor.  
Copy Editor. Chris Julka, a Notre Dame  from W~ntagh, N.Y., has been promoted to Day Chief.  In addition, Rachael J arosh will continue as Copy  
junior from Malone, Wi., has been promoted to Assistant News Editor. Julka is a  Winkler editor. Notre  is a former day Dame junior Ann  Editor. Greg Lucas, a from Deerfield,  freshman Ill., and  
former Copy Editor. Cathy Stacy, a  Notre  Marie Durning from Pelham Manor, N.Y., and Joe  Sean from  Hickey, a freshman Wethersfield, Conn.,  
Dame  freshman  from  Markey, a sophomore from  have  been  promoted  to  
Elmwood  Park,  Ill.,  has  Springfield,  Mass.,  have  Senior Staff Reporters. The  
been promoted to Assistant  been  promoted  to  copy  two  had  been  Staff  
News  Editor.  Stacy  is  a  editors.  Reporters.  

Falwell vows 'no funeral for PTL' 
Associated Press a new board member of the or­threatened lawsuit over his ganization vowed: "there will sexual dalliance with a church FORT MILL, S.C. -The Rev. be no funeral for PTL." secretary seven years ago. It 
Jerry Falwell said Wednesday 
Meanwhile, two California remained unclear where most 
it would be impossible for the religious activists said. a of the money ended up. 
Rev. Jim Bakker to return to $115,000 payment made by Bak­Also, a Tennessee minister 
his scandal-wracked evangeli­ker was not blackmail as he said he plans to show leaders 
cal empire anytime soon, while claimed, but settlement of a of Bakker's denomination, the Springfield Mo.-based Assem­blies of God, evidence that PTL officials attempted to cover up
HIGH-TECH PARENTHOOD 
reports of the sexual miscon­duct.
AND 
Falwell, who will preside
THE DEMISE OF THE FAMILY 
here today at the first meeting of the new PTL board he formed since succeeding Bak­ker as chairman last week, told a civic club luncheon Wednes­day in Cocoa Beach, Fla., that he had heard rumors Bakker 
n Application of the Principles in the Recent Vatica 


wants to return to PTL. "I hear rumors that he wants 
Document on Procreation 
to return soon," said Falwell, a fundamentalist Baptist min­ister who founded the Moral Majority. He told the Space Coast Tiger Bay Club that if that happened, however, "it
Donald DeMarco 
would make our job
Professor, Department of Philosophy 
impossible."
University of St. Jerome's College, Canada 
He added he didn't know how he and the new board could "deal ' with the credibility issue'' if Bakker were to return 
Thursday, March 26 
right away. 
7:30pm 

"I'm not saying he could Little Theater, LaFortune never return," he said. "That's up to God, not Jerry Falwell." 
Sponsors: Intercollegiate Studies Institute, ND/SMC Right to Life, He also said he had no desire Thomas J. White Center, Federalist Society, Ius VItae, Thomas More to remain as the head of PTL Soclet . beyond the time needed for 
"fence-mending." 

...................................................... 
·In Concert· 



Neil Diamond 
Wednesday April 29th 
8:00 pm Notre Dame ACC Reserved seats: $17.50 & $15.00 
Ticket sale for NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS will take place this Monday, 9:00 am at the ticket windows located at gate 3 of the ACC (Fieldhouse Dome). Limit of four (4) tickets per student. VALID STUDENT 
I.D. REQUIRED. No line may form before 
6:00 am. (Ticket sale for the public will take place at gate 1 0 of the ACC-Arena Dome)
.....................................,................... 
-~~ --·~~-------~--------­
-·--~-­

~----------------------------------... 
The Observer 
Thursday, March 26, 1987-page 6 

Three chained women discovered in basement 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Three nude women were found chained to a sewer pipe Wenes­day in the basement of a rowhouse and police said they found body parts elsewhere in the house that may represent two bodies. 
A fourth woman escaped from the house during the night and summoned police, who said the women, aged 18 to 24, may have been chained for up to three months. 
Body parts were found in the refrigerator, in the oven and in a stewpot in the kitchen, police said. Homicide Sgt. Robert Snyder said officers also searched near Camden, N.J., for a possible third body. 
Neighbors said they had complained to police about noise and a smell of burning flesh, but police said they had no records of such complaints. 
Gary Heidnik, 43, who lived in the rowhouse for about two years, was arrested and charged with rape, kidnapping and aggravated assault. No homicide charges were filed. 
One of the women held in the basement said she believed two women she knew only by first names died there, one in a fall and the other by electrocution. The Philadelphia Daily News reported that the woman said Heidnik attached electrical wires to the chains of the electrocuted woman. 
Capt. Robert Grasso said police do not know how the people died. "The investigation is just commencing. There are many aspects about which we do not know enough." 
One of the women held in the basement, Lisa Thomas, 19, said she lost 40 to 50 pounds through the ordeal. 
"He was digging holes on the ceiling to hang us, for punish­ment," she said. Handcuffs were placed through loops that 
would  suspend  the  women  
above  the  ground,  Thomas  
said.  

Thomas also told of sexual abuse and beatings. She said one woman fell, injured herself and later died. She said their captor carried the body away and "I think he burned it." 

Marines 
continuedfrompage 1 
Marines, during which they 
have provided us with valuable 
and loyal support." 
Pentagon sources have dis­
closed that Lonetree became 
sexually involved· with a 
female Soviet agent while 
working in Moscow. The wo­
man worked at the time as a 
translator on the embassy's 
staff. 
The sources, who asked not 
to be named, said Wednesday 
there was no indication Bracy 
had become involved with the 
same woman. But they 
declined to elaborate on the .evidence against him. 

DRN<ING AND DRIVING CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR 
Thomas said at first she went willingly with the man, who had a flashy car and a lot of money. 
Rosa Sauris, who frequently visits her son in the neighbor­hood, said there were "a lot of girls going in and out" of the rowhouse. "One was always with him," she said. "We never saw some of them come out." 
Sauris also said she could smell burning flesh "sometimes at 2 a.m., some­times at 9 a.m. The smell was so terrible, everybody com­plained and called police. But when they came out -they did nothing." 
"We in this office have no knowledge of anybody com­plaining," said Detective Ed­
ward Tenuto, of the department's public affairs of­fice. 
Catharine Wainwright, who lives with her daughter of the same name five doors away from the house, said the smell persisted for more than a week. 
Of the four women held cap­tive, Grasso said one was ab­ducted in November. 
Three of the women were taken to Episcopal Hospital where one was treated and released. The other two were in stable condition, suffering from malnutrition and dehydration, said Anthony Cirillo, hospital spokesman. 
Snyder  said  Heidnik  was  
stopped by poli ce  as  he  was  
driving  away  from  the  
row house.  


UP TO $3.00 FREE $2!'0 OFF
EXTRA SET OF PRINTS

OFF FILM DEVELOPING PASSPORT PHOTO 
With this coupon, receive s3.00 OFF on a 36 With this coupon, receive a FREE Extra Set of Prints, when presenting one roll of color print With this coupon, receive s2.00 OFF yourexposure, s2.00 OFF on a 24 exposure, s1.00 film (C-41 process) for processing and print· passport photo at One Hour Moto Photo. Not OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a roll ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limited to valid with any other promotion. One coupon of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro­
. d · t' t H M t one roll per coupon per customer. Not valid per customer per visit. Expires june 1, 1987.
0 0 0
cessmg an prm mg a ne our . with any other promotion. Pho~o. Coupon offers may not be combmed. Expires: june 1 1987. 
:~res June 1. 1987. M:JfoPHOTO-TH • Mb'TOPHoro· TH4 Mb'TOPHaro·
4 L-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••••••••••••••••·---J 
AP Photo
Bashed bungalow 

An old two story farm house was demolished N.Y. Machine won. in a test of machine versus house in Staatsburg, 
Expert supports wider use of chemotherapy 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Wider use of chemotherapy could save the lives each year of an additional 11,000 victims of colon and rec­tal cancer, the nation's second­largest cancer killer, a federal cancer expert says. 
Dr. Michael Friedman said information has emerged within the last year that settles the question of whether drug treatment is worthwhile after 

Choose wedding andgraduation pieces ~ {rom ou_r unique stock ~ ~ or destgn your own W 
CUSTOM DESIGN*DIAMONDS*GEMS*GOLDSMITH this cancer is surgically (as Reagan) ... presenttoday, removed. I think he should be considered 
c::'e~  129 Dixieway South, Suite C 277-1655  M  
'!ibt~>  Portage Realty Bldg., Roseland  
In walking distance from campus  
Across from the Great Wall  

"Every operable patient for chemotherapy." with colo-rectal cancer should be considered for chemot­Friedman is chief of the herapy," he said. Clinical Investigations Branch 
President Reagan was of the National Cancer In­operated on for colon cancer al­stitute. He made his recom­most two years ago and did not mendation at a meeting of the receive chemotherapy. American Cancer Society that 
concluded Wednesday. 

"This information has taken Colon and rectal cancer fol­a long time to evolve," Fried­low lung cancer as the biggest man said. "Were such a patient cancer killer. 
"I compared Paralegal pro,vamsand chose Roosevelt' 


• 
largest ADA-approved program In llllnois 

• 
Effective employment assistance-over 500 employers have hired Roosevelt graduates 

• 
Choice of time and location-Day and evening classes • Loop • Arlington Heights • Oakbrook 

• 
Diversified level curriculum-spedalize in litigation; Corporations; Estates, Trusts and Wills; Real Estate; Employee Benefits or Generalist 

• 
ILLINOIS STATE GUARANTEED STUDENT LOANS 

• 
RECRUITER ON CAMPUS ON APRIL 7 

• 
Contact your placement office for details 


Lisa Larabee For your copy of the Lawyer's Assistant Catalogue and an Legal Assistant 
invitation to the next information session in your area, Santa Fe Southern Pacific 
writeorcall: 
3U-341-3882 
A5The Lawyer's Assistanl Program In cooperation with The Nauonal Center for ParaJegaJ Tr.urung lloosnelt Uniftrsity 430 S. Micbipu Ave. 

N~<-------------------------
Cbicaao IL 606115 1\ddress --------------------­City---------State ____ Zop ___ ___ 
~~ 

Home Phone Busmcss Pho~ 

ONEHOUR 


MOTOPHOTO" 
ONEHOUR 

MOTOPHOTo·· • Pictures ready in one hour UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality272-8243 

ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO. 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3096 
U.S. refuses trade deal for release of hostages 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -The wife of American hostage Alann Steen, whose captors say he is ill and may die soon, pleaded Wednesday for his release. 
There was no word of a Frenchman whose captors withdrew a threat of death, then said they might kill him after all. 
In the plea for her 47-year-old husband, Virginia Rose Steen said kidnappers "should release people that are sick so the person can get the best medical treatment possi­ble. . . . I hope he would be released very soon." 
Steen is held by an organiza­tion calling itself Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine, which said Monday he was very ill and "may die in 10 days." 
It offered to trade him for 100 Arab prisoners held in Israel and demanded the United States intercede with Israel. The U.S. and Israeli govern­ments refused the deal. 
Another group, the Revolu­tionary Justice Organization, has renewed its threat to kill Jean-Louis Normandin, a 35­year-old French television lighting engineer kidnapped March 8, 1986. 
"The organization an­nounces that the execution of the spy, Normandin, was not postponed and was not can­celed," the organization said in a statement issued Tuesday. The group is believed to consist of Shiite extremists loyal to Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. 
On Monday the kidnappers released a videotape in which Normandin said his abductors had decided to spare his life. They previously threatened to kill him Tuesday. 

Al-Ittihad, a newspaper in the Persian Gulf emirate of Abu Dhabi, quoted "well­informed diplomatic sources" as saying Syrian troops deployed in west Beirut had lo­cated Steen and the three other men kidnapped with him in Jan­uary. 






AWORD FROM 
"PYTHON"PIKOPO U•WRESTLER
ABOUT MILLER LITE 

TillE'S 


OILYOil
* UTE& 
I 


I ·-· 

*TRANSLATION: A SUPERBLY BREWED, FINE TASTING PILSNER BEER. 


"ie~~_O_i_D__t______________
Thu-rsday-,Ma-rch2-6,198-7-pa-ges 
Injustices eliminated by people's awareness 
Recently, Saint Mary's com­memorated the one-year anniversary of the overthrow of the Marcos govern­ment with a series of events as part of Philippine Awareness Week. For some, myself included, the events were basi­cally a crash course in recent Philip­pine history and a look at the reality of this unique revolution. 
Mary Ann White 
guest column 

The coup came at a time when, among other problems, the poverty level in the Philippines was nearly 60 percent. While thousands suffered from hunger and deprivation, Ferdinand Marcos successfully silenced his oppo­sition for almost 14 years as his wife Imelda collected her 5,000 pairs of shoes. 
As part of Philippine Awareness Week, the video entitled "The February Revolution" gave an up-close perspec­tive on the revolution. The video, filmed with hand-held cameras, depicted many scenes of the human barricades that formed to protect the rebels inside the Marcos palace. Because of these barricades, government tanks were un­able to penetrate the crowds. 
For me, these human barricades were the most striking aspect of the video. The word "revolution" immedi­ately conjures up images of massive chaos, camouflaged soldiers and widespread gunfire. But this revolution was different. The "rebels" involved wore Levis, Nikes, and even "al­ligator" shirts. In the background of the barricades were parks, shopping plazas, a Coca-Cola billboard, just like any American city. 
So what relevence does this have for us? There haven't been any tanks moving across U.S. 31. We're not starv­ing. Our elections are legitimate. There are no serious injustices on our college campuses today -or are there? 
True, the "injustices" that occur on our own campuses are far from the massive human rights violations in the Philippines and other parts of the world; for this, we are grateful. But the lesson learned from the Philippines is one of great importance, for when we look at the heart of this revolution, we see ordinary people who had enough courage in defending their opinions to stand up to a wall of tanks and armed soldiers. 
These middle class "rebels" were not all that different from each of us. Not only was their appearance and setting similar, but most likely, they held many of the same sentiments that we do. They were probably comfortable in their middle-class lifestyles. But by standing in solidarity with the op­pressed of their nation, they put their reputations, and more importantly, their lives in jeopardy. 
Here at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, we are free to speak out on any issue whether it is the suspension of the Scholastic or disbanding of the Dancin' Irish. We do not lay down our lives when voicing our opinions, however, too often we do not utilize this opportunity to its fullest capability. 
Recently, with the furor over the decision to convert Howard Hall into a women's dorm, many students did voice their discontent. We can all un­derstand the University's need for more women's dorms; however, most 
agree that the administration's treat­ment of the situation was far from ap­propriate. The University told Howard residents of its decision only two weeks before Christmas break. Students that planned to study abroad this semester were given only two weeks to search for housing for next year. Other resi­dents must find space in one of the other dorms or off-campus. Still, the number of students who seriously questioned the administration seems small in com­parison to those who found a month's supply of jokes in the situation. Making light of a situation is one way of coping with it, but does the University now think that it can handle future decisions in a similiar manner since most stu­dents will choose to laugh it off? 
Financial aid, or rather the lack of it in most cases, is another source of in­justice that many students experience. Decisions made by Congress seem far removed from the reality of paying ex­orbitant tuitions. Still, few students voice their discontent over the system. The power in the Philippines came from the voice of the people who came out by the thousands to stand in oppo­sition. Imagine the power if, across the nation, students stood together to op­pose the government's unjust system of financial aid that has failed to com­pensate for the sky-rocketing costs of then, more people will begin question­a college education. ing those that are responsible for these 

The Philippines que~tioned their aut­injustices just as the "rebels" did last horities in a radical, but non-violent, year in the Philippines. manner. We must become more aware Mary Ann White is a junior English of the subtle injustices that occur major at Saint Mary's and is the Group around these campuses and start Coordinator of the Justice Education taking them more seriously. Perhaps Committee. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Hickey is responsive to students' requests 
Dear Editor: 
On the Thursday before break, I met with William Hickey, director of Uni­versity Food Service, to discuss proposals regarding weekend guest meal passes, the alleviation of the mass influx of students to North Dining Hall during finals, and extended breakfast times among other things. I also brought him suggestions on the renova­tion of North Dining Hall which is slated to take place the next two summers. 
I want to take this opportunity to publicly thank Hickey for his receptive­ness, sincere concern and his quick ac­tion on the implementation of several of the proposals. For instance, before I even finished my arguments for weekend guest meal passes, Hickey was on the phone to his secretary as­king her to call the printer and have 500 "Weekender Meal Passes" made up which would encompass Friday din­ner, Saturday brunch and dinner, and Sunday brunch at a 20 percent discount off the individual meal rate. These should now be available at the dining halls to purchase for a guest coming up for the weekend. Beside the discount, the "Weekender" also alleviates the hassle of paying for individual meals while in line. Hickey also extended weekday hot breakfasts by 15 minutes and told me if I could show him tangible support for some of the other proposals, he would not hesitate to implement them. 
When we were discussing the North Dining Hall renovation, he pulled out all the blueprints and showed me ex­actly what was going to happen. I pre­
sented some suggestions such as in­
stalling heaterA10t air blowers in the 
door ways, and he assured me he would 
talk to the architect about them. I can 
assure you that North Dining Hall is 
going to be a much better place. 
Thank you William Hickey and also 
Debra Lemke, manager of North 
Dining Hall, for listening and acting on 
many of the suggested improvements. 
We really appreciate it. 
Steve Viz 
Student Senator 
District 4 


Students have chance to view Hesburgh finale 
Dear Editor: 
The mailing by the St. Joseph Valley 
Notre Dame Club of invitations to all 
local alumni to attend a Century Center 
downlinking of Father Hesburgh's 
valedictory telecast May 9 has resulted 
in many calls to University Relations 
Offices inquiring about campus 
downlink sites. 
There will be two campus sites where 
faculty, students and staff can see the 
program "A Notre Dame Moment" 
without charge. As part of "Senior 
Week," the seniors will be sponsoring 
a downlink of the satellite-delivered 
telecast in the ACC, and all students 
are invited. Faculty and staff and their 
spouses are invited to a downlink in the 
Center for Continuing Education. 
The program, which will also include 
a 16-minute videotape retrospective on 
Father Hesburgh's career narrated by 
Walter Cronkite, will start at 8 p.m. 
(EST) and is expected to last about one 
hour. 
Richard W. Conklin Director of Public Relations and Infor­mation 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Ailey Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1968 
~l 



Accent 
Thursday, March 26, 1987 -page 9 
~The Right Stuff earns Right of Line-
MARY REYNOLDS wonder whether ROTC con­features writer tradicts the values supported by a Catholic university, 
or the second time in four AFROTC at Notre Dame isF years Notre Dame's Air going strong. The Notre Dame Force Reserve Offlcer Training detachment is the 13th largest Corps detachment has received of the 152 AFROTC units In the 
the Right of Line Award. This country, and Notre Dame had award is presented each year more students on AFROTC to the best AFROTC detach­scholarships during the 1985­ment in the nation. 86 school year than any other 
The Notre Dame detachment. university in the nation. under the leadership of Colonel David Woods, won the award The history of the military at for excellence during the I 985-Notre Dame is long and distin­86 school year. Notre Dame guished. According to Father also won the award in 1982. Sampson, presidential assistant The Right of Line Award was to Father Hesburgh for the created four years ago to rec­ROTC. it goes back to the ognize the nation's outstanding founding of the university when AFROTC detachments. Father Sorin requested weap­
Detachments are evaluated in ons and uniforms to train the several areas Including the students. Sampson, who quality of teaching. recruiting served as a military chaplain and the number of offlcers for 30 years including time as commissioned. Each unit is a paratrooper in World War II also judged on a quality Index and in Korea before retiring in based on the SAT scores and 1971 as a two-star general. class ranks of its cadets. said that it is important that a places on high moral and ethi­freedom and keep peace. If the Sampson said. "A soldier, like 
Col. Woods attributes his par­Catholic university have military cal standards, "People leave nation is at peace we are doing any human being. has to be ticular detachment's success to training. "A vital part of officer determined to respect the dig­our job." honest to his convictions, to the quality of the people in the a;~ndldate training is develop­nity of those below them," the nature of human beings, unit. Notre Dame won the ing a respect for the moral dig­Sampson said. Woods finds "No one wants peace more and that's what the Catholic award because the unit is nity of the soldiers who are In ROTC especially fitting at a than the soldier," Sampson church is all about." made up of "talented people their command and for the Catholic university because the stressed. "The soldier is the For these reasons, Sampson who had a desire to excel and civilians whose lives they are principle goal of ROTC is one who will pay with his life if predicts that ROTC will remain did so," said Woods. protecting." he said. Because peace. Said he, "We're here in a the nation goes to war." strong at Notre Dame. Said he, 
Although some people of the emphasis Notre Dame defensive capability to maintain "The key Is integrity," "ROTC Is here to stay." 

Nye: coaching .crew and LaFortune to success 
N 
RICHARD WESTENBERGER semester--before Nye assumed sity sport. Nye feels that there job In Lafortune, and the Uni­system within the course of features writer full coaching duties for the would be advantages in the versity selected the firm to do four days. team. organization and financial the work resulting in the cen­Nye said this project pre­otre Dame is a place filled Being the crew coach means assistance that a varsity pro­ter's present changes and im­sented a special problem in with people of unique long days during the rowing gram receives. He also knows provements. Nye has served as phasing because It was difficult backgrounds, talents, and season. Nye must get up at 4 that there would be unavoid­the program manager (chief to work around the weather Interests. One such person Is a.m. in order to meet the team able disadvantages, such as architect) for this project and and material shipments. Mr. Chris Nye, who has the dis­for Its morning practices on the the various restrictions of NCAA has been Involved in all stages However, he pointed out that tinction of being both the St. Joseph River. In addition, rules that would be Imposed of Its completion --from the parts of the building have been coach of the crew team and the he pursues his own Interest In upon the crew program. In ad­responsibility for the design of open for some time, including program manager for the the sport by rowing after work. dition, Nye feels that for the the work down to the choice of the basement lounge area. Lafortune Student Center Nye says that these long days amount of time and effort put colors and furniture in the renovation. during crew season, which of­forth by those involved, the building. In addition, Nye stated that Nye has spent the majority of ten afford him only four or five Notre Dame crew team Nye says that In approaching the reason behind the Univer­his life under the shadow of hours of sleep per night. are deserves the same recognition this project. he wanted to make sity's expenditure of 4.6 million the Golden Dome. A South probably the worst part of the and support offered varsity pro­Lafortune a quiet, comfortable dollars to refurbish and add to Bend native, he attended Notre job. After a couple months of grams. building and not like a "super­Lafortune was not simply be­Dame and in 1977, graduated the season, It becomes very As mentioned previously, Nye market." While preserving cause of the trouble In recent with a degree In architecture. difficult to perform well in both enjoys a dual relationship with some of the old atmosphere of years regarding student use of Nye initially was enrolled in coaching and work. Nye, the University. For the past the building which was con­alcohol. as some believe. Nye pre-law studies and switched however, says that there are eight years, he has been as­structed in the 1890's, he was says that planning and consid­briefly to business before fi­definite rewards in helping a signed by his firm to Notre interested in making It different eration of the work on LaFor­nally settling upon architecture. group of people to as he Dame and has been Involved from anything else at Notre tune began several years He says that he has always had says, "work their hardest and to with much of the building Dame. A renovation, according before the major crux of the an Interest In design and art. do their best." In the process, renovation done on campus, to Nye, is always more difflcult alcohol Issue at Notre Dame. but that he didn't think he they enjoy a type of "family Including the work done in than new construction, because Nye also commented that could make a living as an art­relationship because of the Breen-Philips, Pangborn, Sorln, It Is hard to anticipate what will reaction thus far has been fa­Ist. Nye Is currently with Cole teamwork involved." and Washington Halls, to name be found once work has vorable to the new Lafortune. Associates, Inc., a local ar­The present status of crew at a few. begun. For example, a dis­He says that he is personally chitectural firm. Notre Dame Is that of a club In June of 1985, work began crepency between the reported pleased with the results and 
Many students have come to sport. as it is at many of the on the renovation and addition depth of the sewer main and says that It Is finishing as he know Nye through his work schools which the team rows to Lafortune Student Center. what was actually found made had anticipated It would. He Is with the crew team. He has against. Regarding the possibil­Nye's firm of Cole Associates it necessary to completely dismayed, however, at the con­
spent the last four years as the Ity of crew being made a var-had done a previous renovation change the building's plumbing duct of some students, as 
coaching of the novice women. falling to care for It as he
Chris Nye, crew coach and LaFortune production manager
It was not long --just a would. 

The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1987 -page 10 

Sports Briefs 
A new policy for Sports Briefs will be in effect beginning immediately. Items of news value, such as games and special meetings, will continue to be printed in this space. However, regular practices and meetings will no longer be announced in Sports Briefs. -The Obser­ver 
Purdue's Ron Woodson has been accused of taking $21,606 in payments from an agent while still in school, according to Wednesday's New York Daily News. Woodson, a first-team all-America cornerback in 1986, can be declared ineligible and his team penalized by the NCAA if the allegations prove true. Woodson is a hurdler and a sprinter on Purdue's track team. -Associated Press 
A Bookstore Basketball Scorekeeper's meeting will be held tonight at 7 at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will take place tonight from 7:30 to 9:30 in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. A $5 fee is required for sign-up. For more information contact Barbara Tull (284-4078) or Mary Fis­her (284-5065). -The Observer 
Umpires are neededfor Inter hall baseball. Anyone interested should fill out a short application at the NVA office this week. -The Observer 
The ND men's and women's swim teams invite interested swimmers to participate in spring prac­tice. Practices will be held Monday and Thursday from 4:30-6:00 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. -The Observer 
Applications are now being accepted for the posi­tions of NVA aerobic instructor for 1987-88. Forms may be picked up at the NVA office in the ACC. Deadline is March 31. For more information call239-6100. -The Obser­ver 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
In NHL action last night, Los Angeles upset Detroit, 6-1, Edmonton defeated Hartford, 5-3, New Jersey defeated the New York Rangers, 8-2, and Minnesota beat Toronto, 6-2. -Associated Press 
Negotiations 
•


In progress for umpires 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Major league baseball teams were repor­tedly lining up substitute um­pires should the regulars strike at the beginning of the season. 
"What I did is alert the clubs that negotiations are in prog­ress, they haven't been re­solved and, with the season coming up, they had to find out who is available and who isn't," American League Pres­ident Bobby Brown was re­ported as saying in Tuesday's editions of The New York Times. 
A national League spokes­man said the league had "not sent a bulletin" to its clubs, but refused to comment when asked if the league's teams had been told to arrange for substi­tute umpires. 
The major league umpires contract has expired and negotiations have made little progress thus far. The umpires have not threatened a walkout. 

1be ObMnw Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.ObserYer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classllieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
PRO-TYPE Quality work, word processing availability, reasonable $. 277-5833. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Wordprocesslng 277-11131 
Typin!rWord Processing 277-5014 
NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR EASTER CALL HELEN AT 3874 
bistro-'bees()tro Fr 1 : a small wines­hop or restaurant 2a: a small bar or tavern 
b: NIGHTCLUB 
THURSDAYS ARE CAMPUS NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO. THE BEST IN UNI­VERSITY ENTERTAINMENT. 50 CENT DRAFH $2.50 PITCHERS. CALL 277­DUKE 41NFO. 
CAMPUS NIGHT THURSDAYS AT DUKE'S BISTRO. TONITE--YOUTH IN ASIA. DRAFT BEER SPECIALS. CALL 277-DUKE FOR MORE INFO. P.S. MUST BE 21. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST LOST LOST KEYS KEYS KEYS at Lyons B-Ball courts week of March 2 EPCOT CENTER key ring with 3 keys . .. please call 283-2564 or 283-2568 or 283-2563 ... THANX, Scott. 
lost one 1920's gold and cultured pearl clip on earnng on saturday on the side­walk by the grotto. please call annette 284-4372. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN BRACELET. IF FOUND CALL 2905 
still haven't found my army green BANANA REPUBLIC SHOULDER BAG! I last saw it in the Freshman studio on the fourth floor of the ArcMecture Build­ing. 11 you have any info about this delin­quent bag, give Mike a call at 2098. Thanks .... 
................................................................. 
LOST: Thurs., March 12 at Duke's, a sil­ver bracelet composed of a chain of little masks. tt was my only christmas present lhat I liked, so please return to Megan x1242 
Found-shoes in ND Golf Course lot last Friday. Call 239-6767. 
................................................................ 
LOST -Sun.,322,on campus In or near Sacred Heart Church or In Scuth Dining Hall Cale.:18k. gold circular lapel pin. ln­tnnsiO' Sentimental value. REWARD.232-8732. 

Found: Earing, gold circular -Monday night. Call Pete at 2546, Am. 1115 Grace. 
FOR RENT 

FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 255-3684288-0955 
two 4 bedroom hses for rent 87 -88; $450­500. 234-9364 
WANTED 

Ride Wanted to Penn State For This Weekend -327 -Call John 2076 
HELP!!! I desperately need ride to Chicago for a reunion with high school friends. To leave Thurs. or Fri. Share usual. Please calf Susan at 283-4021. Thanks! 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANO.WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 381-4224 
Earn $2000-4000. Gain unbeatable busi­ness experience. Be the NO Sales & Mar­keting Director for Campus Connection, our nationally expanding, innovative ad­vertising guide. Currently at 42 universities-we'll provide complete train­ing, materials, and support. Call Chris Kelsey, Manager, at (805) 564-1260 for complete information. Ideal for ambitious, personable freshman-hjunior. Start in April. 
HOUSEMATES NEEDED JUNE OR FALL HAVE NICE PLACE INTER­ESTED? CALL CHRIS 287-3940 
Need riders to Purdue this wknd. Call Steve at 1 087 
FOR SALE 

Compact Disk Player for sale. Audiophile quality NAKAMICHI OMS-7. Program­mable. Remote. Lists for $1 ,295.00 but will sell for $600.00. Call evenings before 10 pm at 277-5912 or days at 239-7133. 
Round trip ticket to D.C. for Easter $100. If interested call Tash at 277 5626 
VERY PHYSICAL, VERY SLAPSTICK, VERY DIRTYIII SEE THE GAP 
79 FORD GRANADA,dark blue,AC,am­fm radio,runs great must sell $900,call 272-9340 
ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET CHICAGO-SYRACUSE APRIL 16 (6:30p.m.)-APRIL 20(3:00p.m.) $118 or BEST OFFER (312) 973-7235(eve) (312) 750-5126(day) 
New Thompson Chain-Reference Bible, top-grain leather, NIV,slightly marked $45. Call Bill at 239-5615 
Hey Dude! Want to look cool? I'm selling my new PX 2000 Vuarnets for $70. They are worth $85. I got them for my birthday, and if I return them, I'll hurt Mom's feelings. (BooHoo) Call Tami at 4276 soon. 
Great golf clubs for sale! Cheapl 21-PW, 1,3,5W, putt, bag. Call Eric at 1758. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Finane· lng available for all US states. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 

•• Spring Break Travel to New York? •• •• Buy Now & Save •• •• $90 AT Tix to Newark •· .. Leave 3112, Return 321 •• •• Call X3586 NOW •• 
Need GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at 2687. 
DRUIDS 

There is a meeting for all Druids and Druids-to-be to discuss the upcoming Spring Solstice Ceremony and other important matters. Refreshments are, as always, provided by the Archdruid. Call him for more information. If you have any questions, commune with Stonehenge and you will find the answers. 
Stonehenge fives . 
LONELY SAILOR NEEDS SOME MAIL CURRENTLY ON WORLD CRUISE. WILL CORRESPOND IMMEDIATELY: STEVE BARRAZA, VAW-112, F.P.O. SAN FRANCISCO 96601-6400 
LARGEST selection of ClifloMonarch Notes in Michianal Bu:;-Sell--etextbooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
LAST CHANCEl! to see Youth In Aala Duke's Bistro Thursday ? -2 a.m. 
.....ENGINEER'S WEEK····· 
•••••ENGINEER'S WEEK""'.. 
'"""'ENGINEER'S WEEK••••• 
B THERE OR B""2 
MARCH 30 -APRIL 3 
••••• ENGINEER'S WEEK••••• 
VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY SIGNUPS ­THIS WEEK -EG STUDENT CENTER COMPUTER MATCHUPS -FORMS IN CUSHING 
PIE EATING CONTEST -(AREN'T YOU HUNGRY?) -NEXT WED 3:15 SIGN UP IN EG STUDENT CENTER PINEWOOD DERBY -(REMEMBER THE BOY SCOUT DAYS?) -NEXT THURS 7:30 PICK UP KITS IN EG STU­DENT CENTER OR CALL JOHN £3698 OR CHRIS £1704 
WHO LOVES BRIAN O'FALLON? He's dying ol curiosity. 
THE GAP IS COMING THE GAP IS COMING THE GAP IS COMING 
YOUTH IN ASIA with Loose Change Duke's Bistro Thurs., 9:30 p.m. -2 a.m. 
Tonlghtl Tonlghtl Tonlghtl 
Youth In Aisa 
Duke's Bistro, 9:30 -2 Come hear Notre Dame's most diverse band I Music by Talking Heads, CCR, Neil Young, Naked Raygun, Zeitgeist plus Youth In Asia originals!! with special guests: Loose Change 
YOUTH IN ASIA YOUTH IN ASIA Duke's Bistro -Thursday night 
RALPH MASTRANGELO: We hearby serve notice lhat Youth in Asia is playing Thursday at Duke's. You have no excuse. 
Anyone interested in being ASSISTANT CONTROLLER contact Jeff at 3242 ASAP. Positions available lor publicity, deposita, and disbursements controls. 
PRODUCTION STAFF MEETING I! All design editors and assistants. Viewpoint and Accent layout please attend. Mon­day, 30 March 1987,7:30 pm, LaFortune The meeting will last until about 8 pm. Signs will be posted on the office doors giving the exact location. As always, refreshments will be served. BE THERE II 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOIRA SCULLY 
HIGH-TECH PARENTHOOD AND THE DEMISE OF THE FAMILY is the topic of a speech by Donald DeMarco. Prof. of Philosophy, U. of St. Jerome. Sponsored by ND-SMC Right To Life 7:30pm Thurs. in the Little Theatre, LaFortune 1:OOpm Saturday in the Game Room, SMC Haggar College Center 
JOHN CASKO: MY MEMORY ISN'T USUALLY THIS GOOD, BUT I DIDN'T FORGET YOUR ELABORATION OVER BREAK. ONLOOKER 
Matthew J. Slaughter aka Boy Wonder In a political dlcuaslon with the tires was overheard saying, "Classici This country has no foreign policy!" 
Kristin, Where would you be without us in your life? LoveD&D 
SOPHOMORES Pay your remaining bal­ance tor the SOPHOMORE COTILLION tonight (326) from 6-9 in the LaFortune lounge and get ready for a lun time!! 
BOB GOT A JOBI 
BOB GOT A JOB! 
BOB GOT A JOB! 
BOB GOT A JOB! 
Hey, Bob got a 1ob! 
Bob got a job Bob got a job Bob got a job Bob gol a job 
Bob really did get a job. 
Chip-Good job. T minus one week on the BCBJA. Very BCFordA. I enjoyed travell­ing with you. Pepsi-cola was great. Wish my owner could have been there. 
Love, my luggage 

DRUIDS and DRUIDS-TO-BE: There is a meeting tonight to discuss the upcoming ceremonies and to hand out various worship materials. Call The Archdruid at 4074 if he hasn't contacted you yet or if you want to sign up. Re­member, spring depends on you. 
Stonehenge lives . 

C. B. You're the sweetet and cutest! Thank you for the past two months! Love T.H. 
Alex V.-What kind of FLOWER did you want me to order? Groan 
THE TOP TEN "I'VE BEEN LOPEZED" LIST 10 Locking everyone out of the Truck at Port A 9 Cleaning battery ter­minals and then the car wouldn't work 8 Everyone goes to eat, Ray goes to dads 7 Leaving car door open going North on highway 6 Getting to Mexico in time for sunset 5 Pulling into gas station and not getting gas 4 OOOPS-1 didn1 see the Holiday Inn 3 Driving 45 min. to haggle about fishing and losing 2 The Olympic skateboard heave 1111 Stopping to get beer at 7-11 and ccming out with none 
woof. woof 
ODN ELECTIONS ODN ELECTIONS TONIGHT 5·00 CSC 
MARILYN BENCHIK!MARILYN BENCHIK!MARIL YN BENCHIK! "I just love sea1ng my name 1n pnnt!" -a former ANE 
Mom & Dad, Thanks for the support. Things Will get better. Thanks for pointing out part of what it means to be on a team. Gumby 
ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG CON­TEST ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST Saturday & Sunday at the Fieldhouse Mall, 12-6 p.m. Support ND Crew and beat your friends at the same lime. Takes less lhan two minutes to win a dinner at the Loft. 
Astrid, we'll take a HOLIDAY Fnday and put you on the BORDERLINEI 
Happy Ellrthday to a LUCKY STAR! 
ASTRID is 21 today! WOW! 
LIKE A VIRGIN' Happy Birthday, ASTRID!! 
NCAA Slummers Crudity was the rule, but you guys are a riot! Thanks for an Interesting buarlde home! Love, The drunk on the alum-border(sinking last) 
My patience 1s reaching its limit as this weekend is demonstrating. I hope It's worth It to you, what you're putting on the line that is. 
WHO IS THIS MYSTERIOUS AP­
PENDAGE NAMED 
"BOB"??? Me thinks David G. doth know ... 
SMC-ND RIGHT TO LIFE 
Is Sponsoring 
"SILENT SCREAM" To be followed ljy a presentation by Donald DeMarco: "ABORTION & COMPASSION" 
Saturday, March 28 -1:00 pm Haggar Game Room, SMC -ALL ARE WELCOME!I 
Tom and Ronald--We've missed you! You guys are finally here! We have been waiting for this weekend for so long! Get psyched for 2 days and 2 nights of party­ing and MSI We love youl Kimberly & Susie 
Blonde in brown BMW, we know you steal groceries. 
Wege, can I have another poptart ? 
Ride needed to CINCINNATI this weekend. Call Chris at 2445. 
Hawaiian Dance! Hawaiian Dancer Friday March 27 7:30 to 10:00 PM at Logan Center 

The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1987 -page 11 
-------------·--­
Clemens continues hold out 
Associated Press 
SPRING, Texas -Boston pitcher Roger Clemens said Wednesday he remained resolute in his 19-day contract holdout and accused Red Sox management of trying to use him as an example for the rest of the league. 
"I want them to recognize what I did on the field last year and they are not doing that," Clemens said during a news conference at his agents' of­fice. 
Asked if he was prepared to sit out the season, Clemens' agent Randy Hendricks an­swered saying, "The question should be are the Red Sox ready to go through a full season without Roger Clemens." 
The American League Cy Young Award winner earned $340,000 last year on a base salary of $220,000 and an added $120,000 in incentives. 
He sought a new contract for $1 million over one year or $2.4 million over two years. 
Clemens has since lowered his demand to $950,000 for one year but the Red Sox have of­fered him a $500,000 base salary and $350,000 in incentive clauses. 
AkerS: Texas charges 'minor' 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Former University of Texas football Coach Fred Akers has described allega­tions by the NCAA committee on Infractions against the Lon­ghorns program as minor. 
Akers moved to Purdue as coach last December after being fired following his lOth year as Texas' coach. He said in a telephone interview Tues­day from West Lafayette, Ind., that he still believes Texas al­ways has conducted its football program properly. 
"I tend to agree with DeLoss Dodds <UT athletic director) that all of these are minor al­legations," said Akers. "These are an accumulation of small things over a long period that could happen almost anywhere you have a major program." 
The 62 violations released by the school Monday in a report included cash loans to players never exceeding more than $200 at a time, ticket scalping, free legal and dental services, free meals and excessive recruiting contacts. 
Allegations involved eight former and present members of the athletic department. Among those named are Akers and David McWilliams, a former UT assistant who returned to Texas as coach after one year at Texas Tech. 
Also named are former UT assistants Scott Walker and Tommy Reaux, now working on Akers' staff at Purdue. 
PIME MISSIONARIES ive t e GOSPEL among t e poor arrl unchurched in the Third World. So that all may kn::lw of God's love. 
Young men 18-35, interested in FREE BOOKLET about life as a missionary priest in PIME, fill out this ad and serrl it to: 
PIME Vocation Dept. 3731 West 62nd St. Chicago, Ill. 60629 
(312) 767-D620 
Name__________________________Age______ Address______________________________ 
State Zi 
Stop by 
the Club 
for some 
after 
Spring 
Break 
specials 
The Club 
will be 
closed this 
weekend. 


\ 


Texas coach David McWilliams works with Akers, now at Purdue, dismissed recent NCAA players as the University ofTexas football team allegations against the Longhorns as "minor." starts its spring practices. Ex-coach Fred 
No. 1-seeded UNLV arrives in New Orleans hoping to take it all 
said. He predicted Indiana would be "very tough," adding "we're going to have to be at the top of our game to beat them." 
Coach Jerry Tarkanian, who preceded the team to New Or­leans Tuesday night told boosters earlier in the day he "never thought about the Final Four until last week. Then it dawned on me 'we're only two games away."' 
Tarkanian last took a team to the Final Four in Atlanta 10 years ago, where it lost in the semifinals to North Carolina 84-83. 
"This has been a special team from day one," Tarkanian told the boosters. 
He said he planned to turn the team loose for some celebrating in the famed French Quarter Wednesday night. 
"I told them they could stay out until 1 a.m. but they're negotiating for 2," Tarkanian laughed, "and they're such a great bunch of kids I'll prob­ably give in." 
Baseball 
continued/rom page 16 

home runs and nine RBI's, but his 21 strikeouts have kept his batting average at only .244. 
On Saturday the Irish start their doubleheader against Ball -st. at 1 p.m. at Muncie, Ind., and then return home on Sunday to face Indiana at 1 
p.m. at Jake Kline Field. 
Thanks to you... 
itwort<s... 
for 
All. OFUS 
Unitedway
• 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -Members of the No.l-ranked Nevada-Las Vegas Runnin' Rebels flew to New Orleans Wednesday for an afternoon practice, a night on the town and Saturday's meeting with Indiana in the semifinals of the Final Four. 
"For you Runnin' Rebels on board, I want you to give Bobby Knight something to whine about,'' the captain of the American Airlines flight carry­ing the Rebels said as the plane landed in Dallas for a chan­geover. 
The Rebels, 37-1, meet the third-ranked Hoosiers, 28-4, in the second game of Saturday's playoffs. 
Some 200 fans turned out at McCarran International Air­port in Las Vegas to see the team leave on an early mor­ning flight. Sleepy-eyed players gave television inter­views before boarding the aircraft, then signed autographs as they walked down the plane's aisle. The flight left 30 minutes late as players and fans straggled on board. 
"I'm going in with the atti­tude I want to win it all, not just be here," said senior for­ward Armon Gilliam. "It's a heck of an accomplishment to be here. We knew we had the potential to be here. We just didn't know if we'd reach that potential. 
"The chemistry was there," Gilliam added. 
The 6-foot-9 Gilliam then stretched out in a first-class seat, pulled a jacket over his head and slept much of the trip. Shorter players, relegated to the back of the plane, did the same. 
Jarvis Basnight, a junior for­ward from Detroit, said the Rebels had achieved a goal they set early in the year by getting to New Orleans. 
"I don't know how to react at this point, but we'll probably begin to feel it when we get into the flow of things," Basnight 

Our Reservation Manager's office hours are: Monday, Tuesday & Wednesday 7:00 -8:00 pm 2nd floor Lafortune in Theodore's Office ... if you have questions or wish to verify your reservation stop in or call 
2.39-6940 
----~---------------~~~~
----~-----------------­
The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1987-page 12 
Bookies support Rebels -as fans 
APphoto 

UNLV's Jarvis Basnight (44) and Gary Graham (32) look to celebrate two more victories with the Runnin' Rebels as the NCAA Tournament winds down. 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. -Las Vegas bookmakers have turned cheerleaders with their hometown team in the NCAA final Four, despite the possible loss of millions of dollars in bets on the championship game. 
Bookmakers are unabas­hedly rooting for the Nevada­Las Vegas Runnin' Rebels, seemingly glad to swallow the lost bets in the name of com­munity pride. UNLV plays In­diana University on Saturday. 
"It would do more for the town for them to win than for us to take a few lousy bets on the game," said Keith Glantz, sports book manager at the Palace Station. 
Nevada gaming regulations forbid betting on amateur teams located within the state, meaning UNLV's advance­ment to the Final Four will cost sports books bets on one of Sat­urday's two games and pos­sibly the championship game itself. 
That doesn't seem to bother most bookmakers, who say the lost bets will be more than made up for by increased na­tional attention for the city. 
"I'm tickled pink we've got a team that well represents our community," said Mel Exber, owner of the Las Vegas Club. "I've talked to a lot of custom­ers around here. Nobody's complaining.'' 
Betting on the NCAA cham­pionship game generally ranks in the top five major betting events of the year, trailing the World Series and Super Bowl in betting volume among con­tinuing events. 
But bookmakers say the mere fact a lot of money is bet on a game doesn't necessarily mean they will win much money. 
"A lot of people think it's going to be extremely costly to sports books but I don't think so," said Sonny Reizner, who runs the Castaways sports book. "First of all, it's only one ballgame. And you can win or lose the game." 
Reizner said bookmakers operate on a 4.5 percent profit margin if they pick the game correctly and adjust bets ac-
L-~------~ -­
Think Thic on Thu ay 
$6.00 

Thick Crust, Extra Cheese, and Pepperoni for only $6.00. A savings of $2.60 
_/ffergood on Thursdays onl~ 
100°/o Real Cheese 

e best time to eat a pizza is when it's 
fresh from the oven. But home-delivered pizza is almost never that fresh. Unless of course, it's from DOMINO"S PIZZA Unlike other 
izzerias, Domino's Pizza has perfected a super-~ efficient way to custom-make each and every pizza. Very, very quickly. And because we make your pizza faster, we can deliver it in less than 30 minutes from the time you call 
F st, Friendly Free Delivery CALL US! 
77·2151 
L----------------------------------------------------
Uncondltlona Guarantee. Time usl 
cordingly. If they don't, they can lose money on a game regardless of how much money is bet. 
"We're not necessarily going to lose any revenue," agreed Glantz. "And, if they allowed betting on UNLV we could take a bath because the people in this town will bet the Rebels no matter what the point spread is." 
Glantz said most book­makers he has talked with around the city are rooting for UNLV. He said he was trying to get tickets for himself to go to the games in New Orleans. 
"The town would rather see them win than take a bet on them," said Glantz. "It's our team. We don't have a pro team here and the town goes crazy over the Rebels. 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we offer you a special discount • 
•
New apartments being built through Spring '87 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
• 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
• 
Intercom entrances 
• 
Reasonably priced 
• 
gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•call for details about your discount 
277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 

The Observer 
Hoosier fans hold rally in Bloomington square 

Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -In­diana University basketball fans rallied in the courthouse square Wednesday evening, sending up 1,100 red and white balloons along with their hopes for a successful Hoosier trip to the NCAA final Four in New Orleans this weekend. 
"I think everybody is pretty confident," said Mick Hayes as he held one of his four sons, all clad in IU sweatshirts, on a closed section of Kirkwood Av­enue a short distance from the campus. "People think we can do it this time." 
The crowd filled most of the closed block and part of the courthouse yard, yelling and waving red pompons as the school's pep band and cheer­leaders performed in the brisk, 45-degree wind. 
An Indianapolis television station's news helicopter circled over the downtown as the rally got underway at dusk. 
Ken Dwigans yelled himself almost hoarse trying to keep up with the megaphone-toting cheerleaders who shouted: "N­C-Double-A, Indiana all the way." 
"This team's been down a lot during the year, but we've al­ways been able to come back," said Dwigans. "We're lucky to be in the Final Four." 
The Hoosiers are scheduled to leave for New Orleans about noon on Friday, and another rally is scheduled for 11:30 a.m. at Assembly Hall on the campus to see the team off. The 
school's alumni association is 
setting up headquarters at the 
New Orleans Hilton and will 
coordinate a rally there on Sat­
urday, said Chuck Crabb, 
promotion director for the 
athletic department. 
Bartenders from a tavern 
across the street from the 
courthouse stretched a banner 
over the door of the business, 
advertising it as the site of the 
''N.C.A.A. Hoosier Party" Sat­
urday and Monday. 
AndrewS. Ludwig, one of the 
owners of the J. Arthur's, said 
he would have 10 television sets 
and serve up red beer when In­
diana meets the University of 
Las Vegas on Saturday. 
"The excitement is really just now starting," Ludwig said. "They (the fans) know Bobby's got the experience. UNLV has not played the type of physical ball they play in the Big Ten, but they're not to be taken lightly either." 
Nine-year-old Mickey Hayes, who alternately cheered and shivered through Wednesday's rally with his parents and three brothers, said he planned to at­tend the Bob Knight Basketball Camp this summer. 
And between cheers from the 
crowd, he was also ready to 
recite a poem he'd written 
about the coach: 
"There was a guy named Bobby Knight, who got into a fight; 
"He got a tech foul, and went on the prowl; 
"And now they know Bobby Knight was right." 
APphoto 

Indiana's Dean Garrett is surrounded by his team earned a spot in the Final Four by Hoosier fans as he returns to Bloomington after beating LSU, 77-76. 
IU bans airplay of Hoosier songs 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana University fans rallied to roar their disapproval Wednesday of an NCAA rule that effec­tively banned from the radio the playing of two songs celebrating the Hoosier basket­ball team. 
"Any song done by any sta­tion anywhere should be able to compliment a team going to the Final Four," disc jockey Gary Harper told a lunchtime crowd of about 200 at Monu­ment Circle in downtown In­dianapolis. 
Harper's station, WEAG­FM, and two other Indiana sta­tions pulled the songs "Bobby Knight Bop" and "Stevie, Shoot A Three-Pointer" from the air at the request of IU of­ficials Tuesday. 
The songs, written by staff 
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions at Theodore's until Friday, April 3rd: 

* General Manager 
* 
Programming Director 

* 
Promotions Director 

* 
Reservations Manager 

* 
Catering Manager 



Applications are available at the Office of Student Activities 301 Lafortune Student Center 
members of the stations, men­tion the names of several mem­bers of the Indiana basketball team that will compete in the Final Four this weekend in New Orleans. 
IU sports promotion director Chuck Crabb said the univer­sity asked that the songs be withdrawn because an NCAA rule forbids the use of a player's name in a commercial venture. Any player so named could be ruled ineligible for Final Fo.ur competition, Crabb said. 
But Harper, his colleague Terry Lee, and many in the crowd questioned the applica­tion of the rule to the songs, which were written without the knowledge or permission of the IU players. 
"I think it's ridiculous," said Marge Poore, 46, an In­dianapolis postal worker who 
Hesburgh 
continuedfrom page 16 
are the same for both athletes and non-athletes. 
Second, the athlete should have the same academic re­quirements as other students. At that time athletes had to carry a 77 percent average to be eligible for competition. Hesburgh gives several exam­ples of this requirement, one in which two starters of the bas­ketball team had fallen below the average. He called the coach the day before the big Kentucky basketball game to inform him of the situation. The coach asked for just one more day before declaring the players ineligible, but Hes­burgh said, "You've got the word now." 
Third, the athlete should lead the same lifestyle as other col­lege students. Hesburgh uses this point to explain how under­the-table payments can hurt the entire process, saying, "they confront the boy with the worst possible aspect of double­dealing and graft, giving him a disreputable standard of values--and from educational institutions of all places," and, "if the boy wants to play for money, he would get much more from professional teams who are organized to do this." Making these points clear to alumni and friends, he stresses, is very important. 
attended the rally. "They did not ask for their names to be used. They're not getting any money for it." 
"What if another school wanted to sabotage our team?" asked John Golden, 38. "All they'd have to do is write up a silly song and get it played on the radio." 
An NCAA official said that whether the players were paid for the use of their names is immaterial. 
"The issue is not whether (a player) gets any benefit but whether his name is being used,'' Rick Evrard, director of NCAA legislataive services, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview Wednesay. "A student athlete cannot use their name, their picture, or their reputation to promote a commercial product . " 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

The issue of commercial ex­ploitation, however, is a toug­her issue for Hesburgh. He says that in the case of a private school, where students (in 1954) pay 65 percent of the cost of running the school, "any con­tribution looks good, even an athletic one." 
But before you can even ask about the danger of making athletics a growing revenue­generator for the school, Res­burgh points out that Notre Dame has declined to partici­pate in a bowl game since 1925 despite the financial rewards because of the time that is taken away from the athletes' studies. 
Of course this position changed in 1970 when Notre Dame went to the Cotton Bowl, but for 45 years this philosophy held. 
Thus Hesburgh concludes his article again with the principle of the athlete and his education. If the focus is kept on four things--the student, the in­tegrity of the institution, foot­ball as just a game and education through athletics, then this principle can be fol­lowed, he says. 
But what about today? Money is definitely the issue in college athletics, and Notre Dame has changed its stance on bowl games. 
But aside from this and a few other anachronisms, Hesburgh gave his opinion a few weeks agp on his 33-year-old testa­mebt to college athletics. 
''I WGUld still write the same thing today," he said. 


----------~~-----­
The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1987-page 14 

Golfers 
continuedfrom page 16 
Kansas at 936, the Irish at 941, Northern Illinois at 944, Wis­consin at 946, Georgia State at 960, Rutgers at 985, and Brad­ley at 1002. 
Medalist for the field of sixty players was Purdue's Lenny Hartlage, whose scores were 71-71-72 for a tournament total of 214. Second medalist was UCF's Joe Regner, shooting 72­74-74 for a total of 220. Medalist for the Irish was Doug Giorgio, recording a 76-74-76 for a total of 226 and eighth place overall. Next in line for the Irish was Dick Connelly, with a 76-78-77 for a total 231, good for 14th place overall. Third for the Irish was Pat Mohan, firing a 82-80-75 for a 237 and 30th over­all. 
Rounding out the squad were John Connelly with a 93-79-78 for a 250 and Chris Bona with 
Baltimore Orioles manager Cal Ripken Sr. a 90-81-81 for 252. 
(right) made the unkindest cut of all yesterday, 
The Observer 
Ripken sends son Billy to minors 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-Cal Ripken Sr., the stoic manager of the Baltimore Orioles, does not let emotions interfere with his job. 
Just ask Billy Ripken, a son of the first-year skipper and one of 14 players sent back to the minor leagues. 
"There was no father-son to it," the 22-year-old second baseman said. "He said five words to me: 'we are sending you out.'" 
The manager said there was more to it than that, but in­sisted that the individual meetings with all14 players do not tug at his heartstrings. 
"I told Billy the same thing I've been telling kids for years," the father-manager said. "We're doing what's best for him and the team." 
"Sure, it's a disappointment when you get sent down from 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

a major league club," he said. "But then you realize that it's best that you go out and play ... put on a uniform and go to work." 
Asked how he handled a similar situation as a player, the senior Ripken, a former minor league catcher said: "I was never in a big league camp, so I was never sent out. I was released." 
Manager Ripken, of course, still has one son on his roster, shortstop Cal Jr. 
Billy Ripken, in his first full season at second base, was promoted to the Class AA southern League last season after hitting .268 at Charlotte. He was optioned Monday to Rochester of the Class AAA In­ternational League. 
Ripken said all the players sent out in Baltimore's first roster trimming of the spring Monday had handled them-





Tumanyoccasion 
into aspecialevent. 
Send Teleflora's Special Day Bouquet 
It's the sunny way to celebrate 
birthdays, anniversaries, 
wedding showers or any 
other occasion you can 
think of. 
We'll deliver in town, or 
wire it anywhere across 
the United States and 
Canada: Call or visit 
today. 
272-NDND 

409 DIXIE WAY NORTH SOUTH BEND ~~~ 46637 
After the tournament, the team was offered a chance to play at Bay Hill Country Club, the course owned by PGA legend Arnold Palmer. Playing from the pro tees, all players shot an eighty or less, proving to Coach O'Sullivan that the strong performance in the tournament was far from a fluke and truly demonstrated the potential of this team. 
Yesterday the team held an 18-hole meet with Lewis Uni­versity at Burke Memorial and defeated the visiting linksters, 297 to 307. Medalist for the Irish was sophomore Pat Mohan, firing a 73. The other scores for the Irish were: Dick Connelly 
(74) Doug Giorgio (76), and team captain Chris Bona (76). 
Next on the agenda for the Irish is the Eastern Kentucky Invitational this weekend. This tournament will see a truly huge field as all the teams of the Big Ten and Mid-American Conferences will be in atten­dance as well as all the major independents in the Midwest. 

selves well in camp. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
"When you see that," he said, "it's difficult to send them out. 

newspaper

But, by the same token, we want them out playing. 

Be a part of it. 
They've got to get ready for 
their seasons. It isn't the end of the world." 
In addition to Billy Ripken, who is considered perhaps a year away from the major leagues, several other highly­
regarded  prospects  were  
among the first cuts.  
They  included  second  

baseman Pete Stanicek and third baseman Craig Wor­thington, who were sent to the minor league camp for reas­signment, and pitcher Jeff Bal­lard, who was optioned to Rochester. 



ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 272-7144 
Lowest 6 pack and 12 pack prices in town! 
Busch half -barrel keg 
Case of Budweiser 
Case of Miller (cans) 
Stroh's 30 pack 
CORKTOWNE 
LIOUORS, INC. 
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23. '• m•te west ot Martin's Supermarl<et 
$24.88 $8.39 $8.39 $8.99 
1 277-6805 
I 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
presents 
SEN. JOHN TOWER 
Chairman of "The Tower Commission" Investigator of the Iran/Contra Arms Deal 
Wednesday, April1 8:00pm Washington Hall 
RESERVED SEATING: Tickets $2 each; available at The Cellar in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center from Thursday, March 26to Wednesday, April1. 




'JI['~.cll~~--------------------------------------------------------T•h•u•rs.d.ay•,•M•a•rc•h•2•6•,1•00•7•-•p•a•ge
..15 


Bloom County 
Beer Nuts 
. . IWD .sq 0U1? ~
N. ···~ 

P/?OTAGONIST T4KcS A Bus TO P4RIS 1/VSTEA!) OF IX155[1./XJRf. . 
Campus 
11:00 a.m.: "Ole La Fiesta de Mexico," North and South Dining Halls and the Oak­room, University Food Services 4:00-5:30p.m.: "The Effects of Divorce and Remarriage on Parents and Children," br Prof. E. Mavis Het­herington, Umversity of Virginia, Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, Li­brary Lounge 
4: 15: "Hermeneutics and Deconstruc­tion," by Prof. Bernhard Waldenfels, Uni­versity of Bochum, Germany, Exxon Dis­tinguished Visiting Scholar Series, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
4:30: 
"Nucleic Acids in Tight Place," by Dr. Charles Cantor, Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, 123 Niewland Science Hall 

4:30: 
"The Politics of Food Aid," by Jason Clay, director of research for Cultural Survival, ND Ethics and Foreign Policy Lecture, 100 CCE 


6:00: General Meeting & elections for next years officers of the Overseas Develop­ment Network, CSC 
6:30: Meeting for the Great Hunger Clean­up 1001, esc 
7:00: Thursday Night Film Series "Har­vest of Shame," 1960, Black and white, 54 minutes, directed by Fred Friendly with Edward R. Murrow, CBS, USA, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 
7:30: 
Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Stanford 24-hour lounge 

7:30: 
Lecture "High Tech Parenting and the Demise of the Family: An Application of the Principles in the Recent Vatican Document on Bioethics," by Prof. Donald DeMarco, St. Jerome's College, Ontario. LaFortune Student Center Little Theatre. Sponsors: NfiSMC Right to Life Group, Intercollegiate Studies Institute, Ius Vitae, and the Federalist Society 


7: 30: Friends of the Snite Museum Arts Lecture "Directions in American Paint­ing, 1875-1925," by William H. Gerdts, Pro­fessor of American arts history, Graduate School, City College of New York, Annen­~erg Auditorium 
• • • • • • SAB presents: 
.....•.•..•• :.)·Bonnie & Clyde · American Graffiti .,-:..••........ 
•
• Tonite! 7, 9:15, 11:30 :
• •• 7, 9:15, 11:30 Friday & SaturdaY: •• $1.00 $1.50 • 
, Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
IT!fllrl NUr 86 ~ 

Wf W 11EAt, HE UEIIK 5NI/f{..' 
1}91_.k€~ 1TEM Ifl'Q11T
IWil ffRI(Y, fJUr 1HIIr 

F(Jf{ ~_II£ ffJI5(W tWICH l./KE
5NII/l. HA511E 5M1E 

1l£M av atK C/IIJP5__ 1/MJ I'H/?£11115
!{J;I(( 10 tM M tr5 

HEIMNUMU< 1511/../..
t.R 115,., 11118'1 !IIIRf' 
5€/IL /X£5. 

av 7lEM /' Pf?IFTT~. 
I 

I 
Mark Williams 

I&NO!?ANT OF Iff) 
•4FTER EV[NTIJ/i.tY REAL· 
SITV4TitYV, /.IE IIRRIV[S 
/ZING /115 l.IXAT!oN, 1-1{ 
lA/ fl.![ •UTY OF LIGHT'.' 
/EJIJES 10 c;o 70 .4 iloTY.­
FOR 'Til£ AIIG!ff ... t.JHIUI IS, VNBCKNCMIVST 7D HIM, A #a/5£ oF soMtiJN4T 
SHAKY MORAL. STANIAR. 

7:30: Cavanaugh Hall Productions presents "A Gap in Generations," a play by Jerry Blunt to raise money for the Andy Sowder Scholarship Fund. Donations to the Andy Sowder Fund will be accepted at the door, Washington Hall 
8:00: Program of Liberal Studies Stu­dent-Faculty Evening "Rousseau on Truth," by Prof. Rodney Kilcup, ND, Li­brary Lounge, PUblic welcome 
8: 00: African Studies Program Film "Country Lovers," based on South African novelist Nadine Gordimer's story of an interracial love affair. Multipurpose Room of the CSC 
8:00: SMC Graduate Artists Recital Series Kelly Burke, Clarinet, Little Theatre 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Spaghetti with Italian Sauce Beef Braciale with Brown Sauce Vegetable Cheese Stuffed Peppers Grilled Bologna Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Ground Cheddar Beef with Cheddar Cheese Sauce Turkey Broccoli Divan with Copen­hagen Sauce Deli Bar 
"Tell It again, Grampsl The one about being caught In the shark frenzy off the Great Barrier Reef!" 
The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1 Rapid 5 Greeting and 
calling 10 Leeward 
Islands part 14 Ready 15 On one's toes 16 Tied 17 Asgard ruler 18 Craze 19 Sound of pain 20 Dog 23 Moray 24 Certain cards 25 Pinnacle 28 School type: 
abbr. 31 Second 
childhood 35 Pub potation 36 US satellite 38 Banister 
section 39 Honey makers 41 Purgative 
drug 43 Speak 
violently 44 Hoists 46 Goof 48-Grande 49 Follows 51 Harmless 52 Study 53 Wilander of 
tennis 55 Make a doily 57 Face in 
the P.O. 64 Foyer 65 Admit 66 Grass plot 67 Teenage 
complaint 68-nous 69 Holiday times 70 Equipment 71 Place 72 Score notation 
DOWN 1 "-Here to 
Eternity" 2 Verdi heroine 3 Reel 4 Uptight 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD presents: 
SEN. JOHN TOWER 
Chairman of "The Tower Commission" Investigator of the Iran/Contra Arms Deal 
"'1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
3/26/87

All Rights Reserved 
5 Rose-like 
flower 6 Word of woe 7 Let 8 Meaning 9 Gawked 
10 Term 11 River to the 
Severn 12 Droplet 13-Arbor 21 Borscht 
ingredient 22 Participating 25 List 26 Liquid part 
of fat 27 Coral ridges 29 A Gardner 30 Anchors 45 Playful 57 Tread 32 Medal mammal 58 Arm bone 33 Mythical 47 Widen 59 Major follower 
spirit 50 Steps over 60 Nick's wife 34 John of music fences 61 Church section 37 Antitoxins 54 Perfume 62 Is indebted 40 Clumsy one 56 White House 63 Col. or unlv. 42 Buttered up name 64 Crone 


RESERVED SEATING: Tickets $2 each; 
• 

Wednesday, April1 
• 
available at The Cellar In the basement of the
8:00pm 
LaFortune Student Center from Thursday,
Washington Hall 
I:::.LJ Auditonum : 
March 26 to Wednesday, Aprll1. 
Absolutely no alcohol allowed : 
Thursday, March 26, 1987 -page 16



S~orts 
Lousy weather, depleted numbers hinder spring football practices 
By MARTY STRASEN spring workouts, and has not Assistant Sports Editor yet set a date for an initiai scrimmage. The squad is depleted, Wed­Part of that decision has to nesday's weather was cold and do with the small numbers on 
rainy, and at times it seemed the field. With quarterbackthe number of dropped foot­Tony Rice and defensive balls would exceed the number lineman John Foley ineligibleof plays run. to practice with the team until 
But this is spring football, fall because of Proposition 48 and Notre Dame head coach and the recent suspension of Lou Holtz is not about to let five players because of discipli­such minor problems impede nary reasons, Holtz and his his team's progress after only staff are looking at a shor­three practice sessions. thanded group. 
Spring Football '87 


"We've only been practicing three days and so far I'm very pleased with what I've seen," Holtz said after yesterday's practice. "I'm not saying we're a good football team right now, but I think the players have the right attitude and are ready to start working long and hard to make themselves a good foot­ball team." 
In the spring, however, long and hard work is a little differ­ent from what it will be in the fall. Holtz said he does not plan to practice more than about three times a week during the 
"We've got a definite number problem," Holtz said, "and that changes things some. We've got a billion people gone for one reason or another, but I am pleased that there are no serious injuries." 
Holtz said the only thing even resembling an injury to this point was a minor pain in the ankle of sophomore nose tackle Marty Lippincott. 
With all the talk of player suspensions, Proposition 48 victims and top-notch recruit­ing classes for the fall, however, Holtz and the Irish have somehow managed to set their sights on sharpening fun­damentals in the spring drills. 

"It's tough to tell this early how things are coming to­gether," Holtz said, "so what I do is take a look at how certain individuals are coming along. So far I've seen some good things on an individual basis, and I think the offensive line is doing a good job. 
"I've been working with the defense a little more than the offense so far, but I'm basically just looking at everyone right now. Sometimes the defense will come along faster and nothing will go right on the of­fense, or sometimes a good pass rush makes it tough for a quarterback to do anything. I'm not saying that's what's happening in general, but those are the type of things that make 
it difficult to evaluate the team in the spring." 
Some welcome signs on the field yesterday for Irish fans included the healthy running of senior Alonzo Jefferson and sophomore D'Juan Francisco, tailbacks who struggled with injuries last year. And as evidenced by some loud colli­sions and heavy pile-ups whenever a ball found its way to the wet grass, at least the players who are in uniform ap­pear ready to begin the quest to better last season's 5-6 record. 

"What you have is a group of game is slated for Saturday af­players who truly want to be ternoon, April 25 . . . With good," Holtz said. "I'm confi­Bookstore Basketball XVI ap­dent in these young men. They proaching, Holtz will continue want to be the best football the traditional Notre Dame players they can be and they're policy of allowing players to working very hard to improve leave practice for their basket­in every play. Give them time ball games. "Even with the and they're going to ac­small number of players, complish what they want to Bookstore Basketball is such do." an integral part of going to 
Notre Dame," said Holtz. "I 

IRISH ITEMS -Although no don't know if anybody put me scrimmages have been sched­on a team yet, but I sure hope uled yet, the annual Blue-Gold so." 

Hesburgh wrote article in Sports Dlustrated's first year 
No.te: _This story was originally intended for the Hesburgh spec,al tssue of The Observer, but due to space limitations, it was withheld from the issue 
Though University President Father Theodore Hesburgh usually refers all athletic matters to his partner Executive Yic~ President Father Edmund Joyce, Hesburgh' is still held m high regard when it comes to college athletics. 
Sport~ Ill~str~ted, for example, has featured Hesburgh many times m his 35 years as president of Notre Dame. One article fe.at~ing his final year as president ran with the Notre Dame-Michigan football story, and just four weeks ago he was quoted on the issue of SMU's probation. 
Pete Gegen 
Assistant Sports Editor 

"He has always been looked up to," says Donald J. Barr, publisher of Sports Illustrated and class of '57 alumnus. "He has let athletics be a total part of the school, rather than the other way around with basketball and football dominating. His opinion is always worth seeking.'' 
While Hesburgh has been a good source for reporters, it is not widely known that as President of Notre Dame, he once turned sports writer and scribed an article about athletics at Notre Dame for Sports Illustrated. 
The article was entitled "The True Spirit of Notre Dame," and it appeared in the Sept. 27, 1954 issue of SI, the seventh issue that the magazine ever published. The table of contents tells the reader to turn to page 16 to read about "the most famous football university in the nation," with Hesburgh ex­plaining "how we try to do it at Notre Dame." 
He begins by issuing a disclaimer that he is not an expert on thge collegiate athletic scene, but rather has "listened to a number of experts" and has come up with his own ideas. 
He then develops the theme which can best be summarized as "the athlete is first a student." In one of my favorite quotes, Hesburgh states, "This does not mean that they should all be Phi Beta Kappas or physics majors, but neither should they be subnormal students majoring in ping-pong." He also ex­plain~ that this theme has three basic conditions, all of which have been applied at Notre Dame. 
First, the athlete must be a qualified student coming out of high school. He notes that at Notre Dame the requirements see HESBURGH, page 13 


Baseball season opener rained out 
By KARA KOONS Sports Writer 
The Irish baseball squad will face Ball State and Indiana in doubleheaders this weekend after their home season opener against Lewis was rained out yesterday. 
"Not playing today definitely hurt," said Head Coach Larry Gallo. "I don't think it will hurt our moment~m, though." 
The Irish are looking forward to their weekend play at Muncie, Ind., Saturday against Ball State and at home Sunday against Indiana. The Irish dropped their first three games of the season to the Hoosiers. 
"Some people feel that In­diana has some of the best tal­ent in the Big Ten," said Gallo. 
"But I feel we are as good as they are. In our last five games against them, four have been lost in the ninth inning and the other we lost in extra innings. 
"Ball St. is 3-10, but they have played some excellent competition. Two of their oppo­nents were in the College World Series last year." 
Gallo will start Kevin Chenail, Mike Passilla, Brian Piotrowicz, and Robert Fitz on the mound for the Irish this weekend. Chenail leads the starters with a 2.38 ERA, while Passilla is the only starter to have struck out more batters than he has walked, registering 10 K's and issuing nine free passes. 
Piotrowicz and Chenail have each worked two complete games and have allowed only 16 earned runs in six starts. Fitz allowed only one earned run in his only win against Schreiner at Kerrville, Texas. 
Shortstop Pat Pesavento and outfielder Dan Peltier have the hot bats right now for the Irish. Pesavento has a batting average of .358 and an impres­sive 12 REI's under his belt. He also has two doubles, one triple and leads the team in stolen bases with four. Peltier has an average of .356 and, like Pesavento, he has 12 REI's. 
Designated hitter Chris Flynn has been a powerful force in the Irish offensive lineup. He has racked up two 
see BASEBALL, page 11 


Golfers impressive in Central Fla. 
By AARON GRICE Sports Writer 
While some of us were enjoy­ing the pleasures of Florida over the Spring Break without anything in the way of worries, the Notre Dame golf team was in a highly competitive tourn­ament at the University of Central Florida. 
The team left for the Or­lando, Fla., institution on Friday for two practice days before the three day, three course, tourney. First of the courses to be played was Or­ange Tree Country Club, a very fine but also very tight course. Narrow fairways, numerous water hazards, and staked boundries took their toll on the Irish scores, as a 90 and 93 were 
recorded, as was a team total 
of 324 for an average of 81. 
The unusually high scores at Orange Tree seemed to inspire the Irish as they stroked a 311 team total in the next round, played at Tuskawila Country Club on Tuesday. Head Coach Noel O'Sullivan commented that the team's confidence was notably up as they came in with an average of 77 for the round. With this perfomance adding momentum, the Irish rolled into the final round of the tourn­ament. 
The last round was to be played on Rio Ponar Country Club, site of the PGA's 1987 Citrus Open, which had been played the week before. Confi­dence was very high as the Irish played for "pride, perfor­mance, and position," accor­ding to O'Sullivan. On this, the nicest couse of the tourney, the Irish continued their surge, firing a team total 306 for a 75 average and placing fourth for the day. 
The final surge pushed the Irish into seventh place in a field of 12 teams including such perennial powers as Purdue, Kansas, and Louisville. Gar­nering top honors at the meet were Jacksonville University and the host school, UCF, each shooting an 898, with Jackson­ville winning the subsequent playoff. After these two, in des­cending order of finish, were Purdue at 911, Eastern Ken­tucky at 923, Louisville at 927, 
see GOLFERS, page 14 








