
Uncommon residences -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 73 TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1986 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mar)"'s 

Politicians warn against swap of Lebanese hijack suspect 


The Observer /Mike Moran 

Chim-chimney
The steeple of Sacred Heart church looms over a snowy LaFor­tune rooftop 
Associated Press 
BONN, West Germany ­Prominent politicians cau­tioned officials Monday against swapping a Lebanese suspect in the 1985 TWA hijacking for a West German abducted in Beirut. They said a trade would inspire more terrorist attacks. 
Government spokesmen in Bonn played down reports that the kidnapping in Beirut of businessman Rudolf Cordes was aimed at forcing the release of Mohammed Ali Hamadi, accused of being one of the terrorists who seized the jetliner in June 1985. 
A U.S. Navy diver on the plane was shot to death at Beirut airport after the jet was commandeered during a flight from Rome to Athens. 
Hans Stercken, chairman of Parliament's foreign affairs committee, said in a radio in­terview: "Those who are aware of the tendency toward terrorist acts in the Middle East know that the acceptance of blackmail increases the chances of new acts." 
The Justice Ministry said Hamadi's extradition to the United States would be accom­plished quickly. It had been delayed pending a pledge from the Americans not to apply the death penalty if Hamadi is con­victed. West Germany does not have a death penalty. 
Foreign Ministry officials renewed a warning against traveling to Lebanon and urged the approximately 200 West Germans living there to leave. 
Hamadi, 22, was arrested last Tuesday at the Frankfurt airport after arriving from Beirut. U.S. officials have asked that he be extradited to stand trial in an American court. 
Authorities said he was iden­tified by fingerprints as one of those who seized the TWA aircraft June 14, 1985, shot Navy diver Robert Stethem to death and held 39 American passengers hostage for 17 days. 
Gunmen seized Cordes, 53­year-old Beirut manager of West Germany's Hoechst chemical company, after he ar­rived in the Lebanese capital Saturday from Frankfurt. 
Friedheim Ost, chief govern­ment spokesman, said the kid­nappers had not identified 
see SWAP, page 3 

Snowstorms blamed for 30 deaths 
Associated Press 
A snowstorm blamed for at least 30 deaths plowed across the Midwest on Monday with more snow and ice, shutting down several Indiana counties after stranding hundreds of travelers and closing schools across the Plains states. 
Winter storm warnings were up for parts of Missouri, Illi­nois, Indiana, Ohio, New York state and Pennsylvania, and a winter storm watch was ex­tended for all of Massachu­5etts. 
Heavy rain along the storm's 5outhern edge caused flooding :md washed out tracks that derailed 35 cars of a freight train in Alabama. 
In the storm's wake, Okla­homa dug out after one of its worst snowstorms in decades, and New Mexico's National Guarri continued hauling sup­plies to rural residents snow­bound by up to 50 inches of snow and 7-foot drifts. 
Slippery roads and blowing and drifting snow in Indiana led officials in six counties to close roads to all but emergency vehicles Monday. Chalmers had 10 inches of snow by mid­day. 
Travelers had to wait out the storm at truck stops, churches and restaurants in Oklahoma and northwestern Texas. 
"But these Yankees aren't too pleased with Oklahoma's snow removal," said Linda Kelly, owner of a restaurant and motel at El Reno. "I keep telling them this is the worst we've had since the 1970s and it doesn't justify the expense of buying those snow plows when we don't get snow like this." 
The Highway Patrol said In-


Nation celebrates Martin Luther King Day 
Associated Press 
The Liberty Bell's peals echoed across the nation and across the sea Monday as Americans marched, prayed and sang "We Shall Over­come" in honor of Martin Lut­her King and his dream of ra­cial justice on the day that bears his name. 
Coretta King, widow of the slain civil rights leader, stood at his grave in Atlanta with Secretary of State George Shultz and black leaders as a wreath of red and yellow flowers was placed at his crypt. 
In Philadelphia, Samuel Pierce, secretary of Housing and Urban development, tapped the Liberty Bell at 12:30 
p.m. EST, triggering the pealing of replicas in state capitols across the United States and in London at Parli­ament's Big Ben. 
"Let us reaffirm the wisdom of Martin Luther King's mis­sion, the righteousness of his message, the glory of his cause," Pierce said. "Let us conduct our lives in relentless pursuit of his dream." 
In Denver, memorial ser­vices, flower plantings at a King statue in City Park and a downtown march were sched­uled. In Maine, a gospel choir recital, memorial services and a candlelight march were planned on college campuses. 
"This is not a 'black' event. This is an American holiday, black and white," Gov. Arch Moore said at a ceremony in Charleston, W.Va., where par­ticipants sang "We Shall Over­come." 

Martin Luther King Day came less than 48 hours after blacks and whites marching in Georgia's all-white Forsyth County were pelted with rocks and bottles by a crowd of Ku Klux Klansmen and their sup­porters. Mrs. King and other civil rights leaders on Monday said another march will be held there Saturday. 
It was nearly a month after a gang of white youths in New York City attacked and beat three black men, chasing one to his death when he ran onto a road and was hit by a car. 
The day was a holiday for federal workers, employees of the District of Columbia and most of the 40 states that cele­brated the second observance of Martin Luther King Day. Some states honor King on his birthday, Jan. 15. 
Financial markets were open, but the New York Stock Exchange observed a minute of silence at noon. Schools, banks and government offices in some states were closed. 
King, a Baptist preacher awarded the 1964 Nobel Peace Prize for his civil rights lead­ership, was born in 1929. He was shot to death in 1968 by a sniper on the second floor of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tenn., where he was staying while he helped lead a sanita­tion workers strike. 
About 200 people gathered Monday at the motel. 
terstate 40 west of Oklahoma City remained very hazardous Monday, and Kelly said only one lane was open in each di­rection. 
About 200 schools and col­leges were closed in Oklahoma, and schools also were closed in parts of Texas, Missouri and Indiana. Indiana State Univer­sity at Terre Haute shut down. Some schools remained closed in New Mexico, where four counties were declared dis­aster areas after up to 50 inches of snow. 
Cars and trucks were forced to stop along Interstate 70 in Missouri during the night be­cause of reduced visibility in blowing snow, the National Weather Service said. Colum­bia got 10 inches of snow. 
Rain, freezing rain and snow 
see SNOW, page 3 
Malloy's 
~ 
.
inauguration 
slated for 


Sept.23 
Special to The Observer 
Father Edmund "Monk" 
Malloy will be inaugurated 
the sixteenth president of 
Notre Dame on Sept. 23, Uni­
versity officials announced. 
Malloy, 45, was selected to 
succeed University Presi­
dent Father Theodore Res­
burgh at a Nov. 14 Board of 
Trustees' meeting last year. 
Hesburgh will step down 
after 35 years as president 
see MONK, page 3 


In Brief 

Barb Osborne was pleased when her husband was appointed to the new Montana Lottery Commission, until she learned of a new rule in effect this summer. Because her husband, retired Cascade County Sheriff Glenn Osborne, is on the panel, neither Mrs. Osborne nor other family members can collect any lottery winnings. "I imagine we can purchase as many tickets as we want," said her husband. "We just can't cash them in if we win. That doesn't sound like too much fun, does it?" -The Observer 
A hamlet named Amboy in south-central Nebraska is in the midst of a veritable population explo­sion. Only seven people in two families lived here two years ago, but now there are 21 residents in five families, reports resident Rick Michaelsen. Although it's never been official, residents agree the 104-year-old settlement is a community. Michaelsen has been appointed police chief and Wayne Marget is the supervisor because the well shutoff valve is near his house. -The Observer 

Of Interest 

"Genetics and Society" is the subject of a lecture by Harvey Bender, professor of biology, tonight at 7:30 in the library lounge. The lecture is one of several faculty forums sponsored by the Friends of the Library of Notre Dame. -The Observer 
The Shelter for the Homeless will be conducting sign-ups for second semester volunteers Thursday from 6:30-8:00 p.m. at the CSC. Sunday, Monday and Tuesday nights available for student teams. -The Observer 
~"~The Great Diaper Race," a case .study presentation of changes Procter & Gamble made m the design, production and advertising ?f the Pa~pers diposable diapers, will be presented tomght at 6:30 m the Center for Continuing Education. Richard Nicolosi, Vice­President of Procter & Gamble's Paper Products Division, and a 1969 graduate of Notre Dame's Chemical Engine~r­ing Program, will give the presentation as well C;lS a senes of informal discussions today from 10-4 (excludmg lunch) in the MBA Lounge, room 258, in the Engineering Building and in the entry to Hurley Hall and the lobby of Hayes­Healey. -The Observer 
A Jerusalem Summer Study Program in Arab and Islamic Studies at Tantur, will hold a general information meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 120 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
"The Catholic Experience and the Intellectual Life," will be the first of a series of six lectures offered by Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality. Terence Martin, assistant professor of religious studies at the College will present this topic on Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. The series will present personal views of contemporary Catholicism from nine invited speakers. -The Observer 

Weather 
Only 50 days till spring 
break. OK, now back to snow. A 20 percent chance of light snow developing late tonight with highs in the mid 20s. Lows from 10 to 15. A 20 percent chance of measurable snow to­morrow with highs in the low 


to mid 20s. 


Deaign Editor . . ........... Alice Kroeger Deaign A.,istant . . . . . . . . . . . Mike Mojica Layout Staff...... . . . . . . . . . Lisa Tugman Typeaettera... . . . .. . . Pat Clark .. ... . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . ................. Shawn Sexton New• Editor... .. . Mary HeUmann Copu Editor ....................... Karen Webb Sport• Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor.. .. Julie Collinge 

Viewpomt Layout .............. Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ............. Tom Beatty Accent Layout...................... Carey Gels Typist . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor .................. Ron Almiron SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design........... . Mary Carol Creadon .. .. . . .. . . .. . . ... . . .. . . . . .. ................Fred Nelson Photographer .... ................ Mike Moran 
The ObRrnr (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObRrnr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S56. 
The Obtener is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Mother/Daughter beauty pageant demonstrates conformity at worst 
It was unbelievable. Simply unbelievable. 
Over break some friends and I were watching TV, flipping the channels around, and we came upon a beauty pageant. 
We knew something was strange right off the bat. There were all these incredibly tall, skinny women in sequined evening gowns parading around the stage -not unusual for a beauty pageant -but they were parading around in pairs, holding each other's hands. 
Was it a pageant for lesbians? No way. This was prime-time network television. No, this spectacle was something else. It was a mother­daughter Miss America pageant, or something along those lines. I never caught the pageant's official name. I was too busy spewing invective at the screen. 
When we tuned in, the judges were trying to choose five couples as finalists, a formidable task considering not only that each mother looked exactly like her daughter, but each entry looked exactly like each other entry as well. It was hard to tell who was the mother and who 
was the daughter because none of the mothers seemed to have put on an ounce of middle-aged weight or gained a single wrinkle to marr their youthful complexions. All the mothers must have been about 16 years old when they gave birth to their daughters. 
The worst part came after the five finalists were announced. Each couple gave a little talk about what they respected most about each other which, you might guess, was absolutely sickening. 
Again, each entry said exactly the same thing as each other entry. The mother's sentimental and pre-recorded words about her daughter were intoned over the loudspeakers as the daughter stepped forward to pose. Each and every mother assumed the same solid, mea­sured tone with just a touch of emotion, calcu­lated to display some sort of American ideal of motherly wisdom when describing what a joy her daughter has been to her and how extremely proud her child has made her. 
Then the daughter stepped back to allow the mother the spotlight as the daughter's words were intoned to the audience. Each and every daughter spoke as if she were choked by emo­tion and on the verge of tears when talking about how much respect she has for her terrific mother. 
It was so fake I couldn't stand it. 
Then came the really hard part for the finalists. They had to answer a question! Each pair was interviewed personally by the emcee, who explained that the contestants were given 
Celebrate Life! 
I 

Help the 
dp 

March of Dimes Fight Birth Defeas 

the question two weeks in advance in order to prepare for this very moment. The question? What is unique about your relationship with your mother/daughter. I think I would need two weeks to think about that, too. 
The worst part about the pageant though was what it says about American society and its conformity complex. The pageant says that American women should be 8 feet tall and weigh 90 pounds. It says the ideal mother/ daughter relationship smells like roses, devoid of conflict or jealousies and full of mutual respect and understanding. The pageant displayed an American tendency to mold reality into what it conceives should reign in the world, like paint­ing the faces of the dead with makeup for an open-casket -a denial of what's natural in life. 
What's natural in life is that mothers are dif­ferent from daughters. They are older and con­sequently have different perspectives and needs. There do exist conflicts. A daughter is often a mirror of a mother, and a mother in­evitably must sometimes feel a sense of per­sonal loss when she sees her child living a life of youth that she will never have again. "Terms of Endearment" stuff. 
But not according to the mother-daughter Miss America pageant. In their version of reality, mothers stay young forever and daughters adore them for their guidance and wisdom. Sounds like a good deal to me. I'm game. But I'm not sure I can convince my own mother to get a face lift and lose 30 pounds before next year's contest. And I know I can't grow 6 inches in a year. But I guess we'll have to find a way. Otherwise, I'll just be so embar­rassed at the pageant next year... 


Call: Joe *1190 Jeff *3660 


ProfessionalVISion Eye Exams 
Large Selection of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 


20~ DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1635 N. Ironwood 1341 Portage 234-2400
277-1161 South of U.S. 23 Martins Shopping Center I 
The Observer 
Tuesday, January 20, 1986-page 3 


Senate agrees to plan alcohol awareness week 
BY CHRIS JULKA Copy Editor 
The student senate agreed to sponsor an upcoming alcohol awareness week in a meeting in Hayes Healy last night. 
Titled "Friends Keep Friends Alive," the event will start this Saturday and con­tinue through Wednesday of next week, according to Vince Willis, general manager of Theodore's and vice president of the local branch of BAC­CHUS, a nationwide organiza­tion urging responsible drink­ing. 
The program will begin with a training session on Saturday and Sunday, aimed at the Freshman Advisory Council, whose purpose will be to "teach responsible attitudes about al­cohol and how to lead group dis­cussions," said Willis. 
Following this, an opportu­nity will be provided to observe the effects of alcohol consump­tion on volunteers in the pres­ence of members of campus se­


$12.00 ticket/transportaion included/rom main circle 
triology. the story at 7:20pm to Morris Civic Auditorium ofa naive nineteen 

Sign-ups in Treasury Office in Student Government, year old's 
experiences at boot 


2nd floor LaFortune between 12:30-4:30pm 
camp in Biloxi


Deadline: Wed., Jan. 21 
Mississippi. 
curity and the state police. "It's going to involve security coming into six dorms or build­ings and helping someone drink some beers and monitoring them," said Willis. "Then they're going to show the ef­fects of what drinking does even when you think you're OK." 
The activity is planned to take place at 10 p.m. in Stan­ford, Keenan and Walsh halls on Monday, in Zahm and Alumni halls on Tuesday, and in Flanner Hall and "hopeful­ly" Lafortune on Wednesday, said Willis. 
In each instance, he said, two, volunteers over the age of twenty-one will be allowed to raise their blood-alcohol con­tent to or above 0.1 percent, the level at which one is legally in­toxicated in the state of In­diana. Campus security and state police will monitor the volunteers, possibly while con­ducting field tests and present­ing slides, according to Willis. 
The Observer /Mike Moran 

ments would be sent to a Frankfurt court for a ruling on whether the terms of the 1978 extradition treaty had been ful­filled. 
"First we have to get the doc­uments, then we have to wait for the court's decision," he told reporters. "Only then can we legally extradite him. 
"When we do get the docu­ments, then it can go very fast. It is in our interest to do it as fast as possible. We are under obligation to fulfill the terms of the treaty between the U.S. and the West German government as quickly as possible." 
The day before Hamadi's ar­rest in Frankfurt, Italian aut­horities picked up Bashir al­Khodr, also Lebanese, at the Milan airport. Italian newspapers have quoted offi­cials in Rome as saying the cases are related. 

Snow 
continued/rom page I 

caused a rash of accidents in Ohio, and at least two highways were closed by overturned or jackknifed tractor-trailer rigs. 
The storm cut off electricity to an estimated 11,000 custom­ers Sunday in the Tulsa area and 17 crews from Kansas, Mis­souri and Louisiana helped Public Service Co. of Okla­homa restore power, said PSO spokesman Jim Goss. 
Heavy snow collapsed roofs of some homes and businesses in Oklahoma City, where Sun­day's 8.3 inches in 24 hours was the third heaviest on record. The National Guard helped take generators, heaters and blankets to a state prison and several nursing homes. 
Will Rogers World Airport at Oklahoma City reopened Mon­day, with only one runway, after a day out of service, can­celing about 200 flights. 


Monk 
continued/rom page 1 
following commencement May 17. 
Malloy, an associate provost and associate theology profes­sor, will be the first Notre Dame president to be formally inaugurated. 
Until the changeover to lay governance in 1967, the presidency of Notre Dame was a religious assignment for a priest of the Indiana Province of the congregation of Holy Cross. 

The Observer/Mike Moran 
Capacity crowd hears feminist criticism talk 
By ROB HENNIG Senior Staff Reporter 
Feminist criticism can be 
divided into two separate fac­
tions, each with its own as­
sumptions and strategies, ac­
cording to a lecture by Sandra 
Gilbert and Susan Gubar Mon­
day night. 
Speaking before a packed li­brary auditorium with ,...a closed-circuit television hook­up in the library lounge to accompany the overflow crowd, Gilbert and Gubar said that feminist criticism "is very much a product of the central intellectual currents that have shaped modern western thought even while we also believe that such criticism in­evitably seeks to disrupt the very traditions that have formed it." 
According to Gilbert, the categories of the mirror and the lamp detail the modes of inquiry of most feminist theorists. 
The mirror is used as a sym­bol of a primarily empirical viewpoint on feminist criticism. Critics supporting this view, said Gilbert, "define the function of criticism at the present time as the mirroring -the transcription -of a know­able history constituted by real authors, real readers, and ob­jectively verifiable cultural conditions." 
The other school of feminist criticism, the lamp, seeks to 
Anti-Violence Activist 
Cenler 101 Te•chmg Non-Vwlence & 
NCTV lull-lime stall. Lodgong ~ 
$400/mo Research on aggress1on, 
publishing & lobbying agamst v1olunce 
1n TV, 111m, war toys, sports, erot1ca. 
ate. Non-v•olent films. Next to U lllino•s 
Student loans deferable. 217·.184·1920 
P 0 Box 2157. Champaogn IL 61820 
A GI.ORAI. liNIVERSITY 


EDUCATION FOR THE 

REALWORLD 
Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with a policy emphasis. 
Special fields: International business, development, eco­nomics, strategic studies. 
Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Studies and the Middle East. 
Dual degree programs in in­ternational business (MBA­MA) and urban and regional planning (MURP-MA). 
Fellowships and other finan­cial aid available. Apply by February 1. 
GRADOO'E SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STIJDIES UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123C CORAL GABLES, FL 33124 (305) 284-4303 



maintain the romantic energy 
of the artist's subjectivity. 
"In the words of these think­
ers, the self-generated bril­
liance of the heroic poet can be 
said to serve as a paradigm for 
the critic's expressive 
autonomy as well as for rebel­
lious impulses that have been 
repressed but not erased by 
patriarchal culture," said Gil­
bert. 

This view of criticism, the lamp, metamorphoses into a vamp because its impulses are associated with the alienated, the dispossessed, and the mar­ginalized -all of which can be represented by "the feminine." 
Sandra Gilbert is professor of English at Princeton Univer­sity and Susan Gubar is profes­sor of English at Indiana Uni­versity. 
The lecture, titled, "The Mir­ror and the Vamp: Reflections on Feminist Criticism," was sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters and the de­partment of English. 




Report 
From !\umber One Wall Street 
Irving Trust 

.~. 
Sittinl! pretty and femininely 
Visiting lecturers Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gober presented the topic of feminist criticism 

If you like challenges, Irving Trust is where your antbitions ntay beconte reality. 
It's people tbat set Irving Trust apart in the highly competitive banking world. Today, 
we serve the diverse financial needs of the largest corporations, governments, emerging companies and successful 
individuals worldwide. 
And to meet tomorrow's even bigger challenges, we're looking for talented people who will learn to manage both traditional and innovative credit and noncredit services by meshing creativity and spirit with professionalism and teamwork. While we're one of the largest banks in the U.S., we recognize and 
reward individual achievement. We' II be on campus: 
Tuesday, February 3 
Sec your career planning office for details. An Equal Opportunity Employer m/ f/ hi v. 
to a packed audience in Memorial Library auditorium Monday night. See story at left. 




\Tie\Y~_O_i_n_t____________Tues~day,J-anuar~y2o,1-~-~page5 
Notre Dame values lead to foundation of group 
Five of the ten American founders of International Physicians for the Pre­vention of Nuclear War (IPPNW)-the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize winner -were Notre Dame graduates. Is this chance, or is there something about Notre Dame which led us, and is likely to lead future graduates, to make a special contribution toward decreasing the threat of nuclear war? 
James Muller 
guest column 

During my years at Notre Dame (1961 to 1965) the nuclear threat was not a topic of study but Notre Dame nurtured two values which I believe led me and my colleagues to work for IP­PNW when the challenge presented it­self. First, as Notre Dame graduates we expected to perform public service, in addition to working for our families and careers. Second, the Christian value of hope, strengthened during my years by the arrival of Ara Parseghian, gave us the feeling that no problem was too big to be solved. The Notre Dame of 1965 also gave me an excellent start on the Russian language. 
It was not until my second year at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine that the nuclear threat became a per­sonal reality. The lectures of Dr. Jerome Frank, my experience with burned patients in the emergency room, and my selection as the first medical exchange student to the Soviet Union, together with my Notre Dame background, left me convinced that a major purpose of my life would be to work against the nuclear arms race. As the Soviet nuclear missiles rolled past me in Red Square, I thought of the ways in which Soviets and Americans could work together in medicine to decrease the nuclear threat. But when I returned home I found few were over­tly concerned with the nuclear threat. 
By 1978, I was married, the father of three children and beginning my career as an academic cardiologist when Pres­ident Carter began advocating the MX missile and George Bush and Ronald Reagan began talking about winning a nuclear war. I approached a teacher of mine, Dr. Bernard Lown, with the thought that we should attempt to hold a conference with our Soviet medical colleagues to present a unified medically-based assessment of the facts about nuclear war. Dr. Lown wrote to his personal friend, Dr. Eugene Chazov, the chief physician for the Soviet leadership. When Dr. Chazov and his colleagues agreed to the details of our proposal in December of 1980, we felt the movement of historic im­portance could begin, if we took the proper steps. I recall praying in a hospi­tal chapel that we be given the strength to fulfill our enormous mission, and writing Father Hesburgh for his help (in that order). 
During the next four years the move­ment grew in size from three Soviet and three American physicians to over 130,000 physicians from over 30 nations. Presentation of the medical facts led government leaders to state that nu­clear war could not be won (although nuclear strategists continue to plan for a limited nuclear war) and strengthened the public demand for an end to the arms race (although it con­tinues unabated). After IPPNW advo­cated the positions, the USSR supported a nuclear freeze, adopted a no-first-use policy and initiated a unilateral 18 month halt of all nuclear explosions. 
In 1984 I left my position as Secretary of IPPNW-I was exhausted, my family had sacrificed greatly for the cause and I was about to lose my position at the Harvard Medical School because of failure to publish. No tired Notre Oame lineman has ever been happier than I to be replaced by a fresh, talented and dedicated Notre Dame teammate. Dr. John Pastore, who continues as Secre­tary of IPPNW brought enormous skills to the position and had the thoughtful­ness to call me early in the morning when IPPNW won the Nobel Peace Prize. 
The primary accomplishment of IP­PNW was to awaken the world to the problem of nuclear war. As a moun­taineer sees the full task ahead after climbing a foothill, it has become ap­parent to me that the solution to the problem requires more than adoption of a specific treaty, more than a reduc­tion of arsenals and more than im­provement in US-USSR relations. Nu­clear weapons leave no option other than the eventual abolition of war with development of a world order in which law governs relations between nations. 
To the general values of commitment an hope which we experienced 20 years ago, the Notre Dame of 1987 adds the academic power of specific courses and degrees about the new world order which it required. It was not a coin­cidence that the five of us who attended Notre Dame some years ago helped found IPPNW, nor will it be by chance that some of you will play a crucial role in the eventual solution of the nuclear dilemma. 
Dr. James Muller is a Notre Dame graduate and Co-Founder of IPPNW. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Some professors show excellence in teaching 
Dear Editor: 
I am intrigued by Jeff Woode's letter to the Observer in which he voiced his disillusionment with the quality of some members of the Notre Dame faculty. Being a freshman I have only had the opportunity to attend classes here for one semester, but during this short time my experience has been widely differ­ent from his. 
Three of my classes are taught by full professors .In two of these, German 101 and Chern 125, the classes are no bigger than the size of a typical high school class. Not many colleges could claim that about their freshman classes. 
Granted, being a full professor does 
Doonesbury 
not make one a great teacher, but my professors inject an enthusiasm to their classes which, in my opinion, has a def­inite effect on their students' level of motivation. Even my Freshman Semi­nar teacher, almost a doctorate him­self, keeps his class lively and interest­ing, something not easy to maintain for 75 minutes each class. 
I am sorry that Woode has come across a few "weak links" in his stay at Notre Dame. I am not attempting to minimize his bad experiences here -I merely offer that not everybody believes the University is "lax in its concern for our education." If my classes thus far are any indication of the quality of faculty here, then I am anticipating a challenging and reward­ing course of studies under the Dome. 
Dave Bruner Dillon Hall 


Facts should establish alcohol policy's guilt 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Kevin Trautner and Sean O'Brien's letter concerning the al­cohol policy I must say with some regret that people who can easily blame a policy as such for traffic fatalities may be just as ignorant as drunk drivers themselves. The key word here is ignorance. Give me, as well as the rest of this university, cold hard facts to show that the alcohol policy is to blame and I'm sure the administration will change it. But until you've com­pleted your study I'll speculate that drunk driving fatalities are caused more by ignorance than by anything else. 
Garry Trudeau 

Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz  
Viewpoint Editor ......................... Christopher Murphy  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University  Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan  
:of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies  Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby  
of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively  Saint Mary's Editor ........................... Margie Kersten  
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board.  News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski  
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column  
space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying  
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  

I don't necessarily agree with the al­cohol policy. I had two years of non­policy fun, but from the looks of things (i.e., as Trautner and O'Brien are juniors, they have no valid reference point to make such accusations.) I've survived three years without it. 
What O'Brien and Trautner, as well as others that gripe and moan, must realize is that conscious decisions are made by people to drink and drive even, at times, under altered states of mind. Yet, those decisions are made, those people are responsible for them. Obvi­ously, O'Brien and Trautner are not aware of the problem, for if they were, their letter would have more thought in it. 
Thomas B. Brown Grace Hall 
Quote of the day 
"Never refuse any advance of friendship, for if nine out of ten bring you nothing, one alone may repay you." 
Madame de Tencin 
Business Manager ................. Eric Scheuermann Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler Photography Editor: ............................ James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November 3, 1988 

~Tu~esday' J anuary 20' 1986 -page 6 
== 



·Accent .• 
Tuesday, January 20, 19'86-page 7 
Uncommon student 
campus residences
You live where? 
JOE BUCOLO rissey. The rooms come com­
features senior staff plete with furniture, carpeting 
and even air conditioning. Ber­
Tired of small rooms? Does gen and Sluby share a bathroom the heat of summer and spring with a shower. get you down? Then perhaps you So what's the catch? There are should do what several Notre two: the men must purchase Dame students have already their own meals and do their own done: get a live-in job. This year, laundry. Bergen says that doing four students are living in the laundry is often very incon­Center for Continuing Education, venient. but St. Michael's and three are living at the Fire Laundry will do it if they bring it Station. Sound odd? It really there and pick it up, too. isn't. 
This year Tim Gianotti. Scott The guys all agree that their Cassidy, Marc Bergen and social lives are as good as ever. graduate student Tom Sluby are Gianotti enjoys the privacy that living in the CCE. In exchange accompanies the building. for a room, these students do Whenever lonely, Bergen simply various tasks that the center visits a friend at another dorm. needs performed, such as The students work anywhere answering phones to running er­from nine to twelve hours a rands in town. Bergen points out week, and work every other that sometimes there is nothing weekend. This leaves plenty of to do but homework and watch time for studying and partying. television. Not a bad job at all. In addition to the CCE, the Fire 
.Station also serves as the home 
Most of the students found out of three students. John for tuition or anything else that about the job through friends. Amarante, Tony Hask.e and Mike the student chooses. Gianotti was asked to work in the McGowan live there this year. The men work approximately office during Senior Week of his These three students have a ten days each month. The shifts freshman year. He and his room­more interesting job. They have run from about 5:00 pm to 8:00 mate, Cassidy, liked it so much to fight fires with the other am the next morning. During that they chose to leave St. Ed's firemen at the station. Like those that time the men must be ready and move into the center. Bergen at the CCE, they get a room in to put out fires if the alarm goes likewise left Morrissey. exchange for their services. off. They only work one night on 
McGowan explains that they also weekends which leaves plenty of 
The rooms, says Bergen, are get $2700.00 credited to their free time open on the "off" night. quite large. His single is twice account. This money is often Also, many of the guys switch the size of an RA's room at Mar-used for food, but can be used hours if they have plans. 
Medievalist spotlights Paris students 
Special to The Observer 
Early Hungarian ties to the West are revealed in a new book by a University of Notre Dame medievalist who explores the life of Hungarian students and masters at the University of Paris in late 15th and early 16th Cen­turies. 
The book. "The University of Paris and its Hungarian Students and Masters During the Reign of Louis X and Francis I," is by Prof. Astrik L. Gabriel, director emeritus of the Medieval In­stitute at the University. 
Hungarian subjects studying at the University of Paris were part of the English-German na­tion, the term "nation" signifying the tribe or clan to which an in­dividual belonged. The foreign students in this nation came from northern and central Europe, as well as from England, Scotland and Ireland. Relying on unpublished material on the English-German nation, Gabriel reconstructs the intellectual con­political and historical events of flow of students to Paris was cut tacts of Hungarians with out­the time, including the plagues off. standing German, English, of 1501-1502 and 1522 to which Gabriel, an expert In the his­Dutch, Scotch,and Irish scholars Hungarian students were ex­tory of medieval education, has of the time. Some Hungarians posed during their studies In been at Notre Dame since 1948. were elected to high offices In Paris. Gabriel also shows that A native ofHungary and a former the nation, and they even In­Hungarian students went on to professor at the University of scribed their native saints Into enroll at other famous European Budapest, he Is a corresponding the official calendar used by the universities, such as Cracow, member of the French and nation, originally written in the Padua and Vienna, after leaving Bavarian Academies of Sciences 
14th Centruy. Paris. and fellow of the Medieval The flourishing contact ofHun­Academy of America. His book Using casual Information writ­garians with the West came to a Is the 17th In a series of Texts 
ten by officials of the nation be­tragic close In 1526, the author and Studies In the History of tween the lines of financial ac­notes, when the Turks success­Medieval Education originated at counts, Gabriel outlines the fully Invaded Hungary and the NotrP n;jmP. 


The job was discovered of trust. Haske says that the full­through friends and a sign that time firemen go out of their way. read "Easy job, Free Room and to help and accomodate the stu­Board, little or no work." dents. Everyone gets along. Amarante says that the job is a Rooms are rarely locked and great opportunity to meet new there's always a friend to talk to. people, especially since most of Does the fire alarm ever go the firemen are from South off? Amarante says the alarm Bend. The job provides a differ­sounds much more often than ent perspective than a dormitory people would guess. McGowan does. was surprised to discover that 
The rooms, says McGowan, are there are very few pranks. The quite large, bigger than dorm alarms, however, are often false. singles. Because he's very tall, Dust and strong winds can set McGowan appreciates the fact off some detectors. Haske says that the beds are seven feet long that about 90% of all calls are instead of the shorter dorm false alarms, usually due to fire beds. There is a community detectors. Sometimes, however, bathroom with showers, but the the fires are serious. Amarante only ones who regularly use it helped to fight the Grotto fire. are the three students. This McGowan fought the fire at the means no waiting in the morn­auction near the ACC It's a dan­ings. gerous job, but someone has to 
The guys all agree that their dolt. social lives are great. McGowan Both the CCE and the Fire Sta­is in a five-year program and tion provide excellent opportuni­appreciates the quiet and privacy ties to meet new people and of the fire house. No noise makes make some money. The rooms it easy to study in his own room. are much more luxurious and Amarante enjoys the privacy, private than those ofdormitories too. If they get lonely, they and a good social life can be simply call a friend at another maintained. Such a job is dorm. There is also a great sense definitely worth looking into. 

Tired of the old routine? 
Join 
The Accent department is accepting applications for: 
• 
Features Copy Editor 

• 
Scene Photo Editor 


(No photography experience necessary) 
For Information contact Mary Jacoby at The Observer . (239-5313), 3rd floor Lafortune. 

~---------------------------------------------------------~­
The Observer Tuesday, January 20, 1986-page 8 
• 
Sports Briefs 
The ND softball club will have its first practice tonJght at 10 for all interested women. Enter through Gate 3 of the ACC. The second practice will be Thursday at 9:30 
p.m. For more information contact Barb (4072) or Lynn (2666). -The Observer 
The WVFI sports staff encourages anyone interested in joining the staff to contact either Sean Pieri (3450) or Rick Rietbrock (3252). -The Observer 
The ND-SMC gymnastics clubresumes practice today from 4 to 6 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will have a mandatory meeting Thursday at 7 p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phil_lips fo~ anyone interested in playing indoor soccer. Elections will also be held. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team wilhavetryoutstomorrow. M~t ~t the main c~cle at 3 p.m. If you have a car, please brmg 1t. For more Information contact Joe (1190) or Jeff (3660). -The Observer 
Red Cross courses are being offered by the Rockne Memorial in the following areas: Lifesaving, WSI, Lifeguarding, First Aid and CPR. Registration for these courses will take place Thursday from 4 to 5 p.m. and Friday from 4 to 6 p.m. at room 218 Rockne.-The Observer 
. Interhall hockey managers may sign up for ice time for the second semester now. Cost is $50 an hour. Teams are limited to one hour a week. For more infor­mation contact Tom Carroll at 239-5247. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has scheduled the deadlines for some of its upcoming events. 
T~da_y is the starting date for the Stretchercise program, begmmng at 5:20p.m. Anyone interested may advance register or sign up at the first session. 
The deadline for a beginners' cross-country ski clinic is Thursday. The program takes place Sunday, Jan. 25. 
Tomorrow is the deadline for the following events: 
Racquetball -men's doubles, grad-faculty doubles and women's doubles. Handball -open doubles tournament. Bowling-minimum seven-person roster, open to all stu­dents, no divisions. 
Track-men's and women's events are planned. 
Registration and-Or further information on these activ­
ities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA 
at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in the ACC. 
Despite all the encouraging signs, both coaches realize that 
Fencing 
the Irish fencers must get past some top-notch opponents
continuedfrom page 12 
before tournament time. The my starters. Seniors Cindy next bouts for both the men and Weeks and Vittoria Quaroni women take place this Satur­have some solid experience be­day at Madison, Wis., where hind them and Brenda Leiser the Irish will take on Wiscon­enters her second year with us sin, Minnesota and Lawrence after compiling a 24-3 mark as with hopes of keeping those a freshman. I think we are winning streaks alive. looking very strong for this season." "For both the men and wo-
Registration for this spring's Bengal Bouts will continue
Ski 
from the end of this week to the 
continuedfrompage 12 
beginning of next week. Stu­
"We haven't had tryouts yet dents should sign up in the because the snow's been so boxing room next to the hockey bad. About 80 to 100 people try rink at the ACC. out, and it determines the top Over 100 people have signed 30 or 40 people," said Club up for the Bouts already, and President Kathy Skendzel. "In the Boxing Club is hoping to see each meet we take 10 men, five at least that many people com­Notre Dame women, and five pete in the springtime charity Saint Mary's women. During event for the Holy Cross mis­the season we try to work in sions. people who don't make the top "We'd like to have 100 finish 20 in tryouts to some meets." the program," said Boxing 
In this weekend's meet at Club President Thomas Crystal Mountain in Michigan, Newell. "Usually about one­the skiers will be facing a con­third of them will train through ference of 17 schools in the Mid­and not fight or don't end up in west. The competition will in­the Bouts." clude several Michigan schools, and possibly some This year's Bengal Bouts are schools from Indiana and nor­scheduled for March 1, 4 and 6 thern Ohio. at the Stepan Center. 
In the 50-yard freestyle, the Irish took the first three places 
Welsh 
led by Jim Dowd.
continuedfrom page 12 
The men's diving squad, led relay demonstrates that we can by Ed Veome, edged out West­change people without chang­ern Ontario, but were unable to ing the speed." take first in either the one or 
Fired up from Friday's win, three meter events. the Irish men's team met West­The snowball almost lost mo­ern Ontario in high spirits. mentum as Notre Dame faced Using team depth, the Irish Northwestern and Minnesota were able to place fresh swim­Sunday. Handicapped by the mers into many of the events Big Ten scoring system of only resulting in a 120-90 victory. awarding points for the first 
Messaglia again took first in three places instead of the first the 1000-yard freestyle with a five, the depth factor of the personal best of 10: 15.05, ac­Irish was held in check. companied by Chris Green with In the end it came down to a second place time of 10:22.70. the 400-yard freestyle relay. 
men, Wisconsin seems to be the toughest opponent this weekend," DeCicco says. "The other teams our young, but that doesn't guarantee anything. We still have to work hard in training for the match." 
The talent is there as well as the coaching and the depth. All the Irish need to do is keep it all together and DeCicco and Auriol may both be coming away with NCAA titles in March. 
Opening its regular season, the Men's Volleyball Club will meet Toledo tomorrow at the ACC Pit. 
Coached by Bill Anderson, the team already had its first taste of competition at a tourn­ament in Windsor, Canada, over Thanksgiving break. 
In the club division of the Midwest Intercollegiate Vol­leyball Association, the Irish will have a home-and-home se­ries with league rivals Mic­higan, Miami of Ohio, Wiscon­sin, Bowling Green and Calvin College, during the season. 
The Irish will also face top­ranked varsity teams from Ball State, Ohio State, and IUPU-Fort Wayne over the course of the season. 
With a new combination of swimmers, Notre Dame edged out Northwestern, 61-52, but were unable to catch Min­nesota and suffered a 29-84loss. 
While the men's team had top performances, the women's team seemed to be swimming uphill. After being edged out Friday by Northern Illinois, 139-130, the women reversed their position against Western Ontario,114-103. Sunday resulted in two wash-outs with the only bright point being a first and second place finish in the one-meter diving event by Georgia Bosseler and Kay Richter. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of HaggarCo~lge Center, accepts classllieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Fnday. Deadline lor next-day classlfieds is 3 p.m. Ali classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per live
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES WORDPROCESSING 277·B131 ................................................................ EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-7009. TYPING AVAILABLE 287~  LOST: Black wallet at Theodore's Satur­day night. Please call Terry at x1137. Thank you. --­~~~~~~~ --, Two room utilities paid private entranca one person 2BB-o955'277·1254 0 Wanted : There Ia a apace open at campus view aperlmenta lor one female  MADISON RIDERS NEEDED FOR WEEKEND PERSONALS TRIP. LEAVING W3. CALL LISA 1B22 Part-time mktg. pas. on campus. Poten· llal to make $&hr. Call Cindy at 1-BOD­592·2121. ................................................................1,,. ,!,~~ ~~~~ ~ J SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS through the U.S. government? Get the ORIENTATION SESSION FOR NEWLY· facts today! Get the facts today! Call 1· REGISTERED STUDENTS FOR ON­CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AT312·7421-1142. 3:00p.m. FOR SALE HEWLETI PACKARD 9125 CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· DISC DRIVE NEW $1200 HEWLETI ....................Y.!!?.~!!..~.~f.!~.'~: ..................  YOU HAVE TO FIGHT FOR YOUR RIGHT TO PARTY 0 PLEASE HELP -I NEED A RIDE TO IU-BLOOMINGTON THIS WEEKEND. JAN.23 TO JAN.25. CALL NIKKI, 283· 37B5. Ski STEAMBOAT lor Spring B,..k contact Joe h110 or Jeff Heo apon­IOred by SAB BILOXI BLUES  '"SENIORS'" Sign up lor the class trip to Chicago tonight at the Claas Office from 7·9pm. Busses will leave from the Ubrary Circle on Wednesday at 7 pm and return at approximately 3:30am. Get a group to­gether lor this wild time in the Windy Cltylll $12 per person (caah only) '''SENIORS'" Also, sign-ups lor this Friday's BENDIX WOODS TUBING TRIP will take placa tonight and Wednesday night at the Class Office from 7-9pm. More detalla to follow II ~ .............................................................. JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS  
lor the spring semester • n Interested  PACKARD  GRAPHIC  PRINTER  DIS·  SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS  Nell Slmon'a play on Jan 23 at the  JUNIORS  JUNIORS  JUNIORS  
ATTENTION CHICAGO RESIDENTSIII  please contact Noreen at 272 • 93B1 or  PLAYS BAR,PIE,ECT CHARTS IN SIX  ORIENTATION SESSION FOR NEWLY·  Morrie Civic Auditorium. Sign up In  JUNIORS  JUNIORS  MAKE-UP  DOG·  
II you are not reglatered to vote In this years Mayoral Democratic Primary or need an absentee ballot, please call Beth  Kim at x«40 lor more Information. Have house suitable lor 5 students, near  COLORS NEW $2000. ALSO WYSE TERMINAL & SCREEN $250 ALL BRAND NEW FOR $2250.  REGISTERED STUDENTS FOR ON­CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AT 3:00p.m.  the T,..aurw'a Office, 2nd noor of LaFortune. nx $12 (lnclud• tranapor· tatlon). Spon10red by SAB.  BOOK PICTURESIIIII Tuesday, JANU· ARY 20 and Wednesday, JANUARY 21 4-Bpm 3rd Floor LaFortunelll JUNIORS  
Ward at 272· 7924 today I  Memorial Hospital. Nice neighbor. For In­ CAREER  AND  PLACEMENT  SER­ JUNIORS  JUNIORS  JUNIORS  
to, call 232-4412.  Macintosh  wl<eyboard,  VICES OFFICE.  Want 10me LATE NIGHT ACTION?  JUNIORS  JUNIORS  JUNIORS  
SAVE $$$11 Buy your claaa booka at PANDORA'S BOOKS. at our new loca· lion: BOB Howard St.. juat oft of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 daye a weal< 10-530, ph. 233­2342. Bring In thle IICI and receive $5 oft every order of S50 or morel [LOsT/FOUND I LOST: NECKLACE-GOLD CROSS WITH DIAMOND on Monday night, Jan. 12 great sentimental value, REWARDIII Call Marianne at 4161. ................................................................ LOST...GOLD BEAD NECKLACE LAST SEEN IN NO LIBRARY ON DEC. 15TH IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND OR CALL £3783. lost. .. red book bag with gymnutlca gear. Including gripe, ahoae, etc. Meets start In 2 weeka, need deaperately. II found call 1802 or bring 1o 1110 Grace. ................................................................ LOST... ROOM KEY AND MAIL BOX KEY FOR ROOM 243111 Keychaln Ia bulc NO, wood keychaln. Please call Jill at 373811 you know of their whereabouts I I ml1111 them Ill ................................................................ LOST: BROWN AND TAN RUSSIAN STYLE HAT. PLEASE CALL 4606.  Large duplex baing used as one house. Two kitchens, three baths. Completely furnished Including washer and dryer. Complete burglar and !Ins alarm system. Will accommodate eight. Call 234·9364 after five. WANTED SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-BOD-237·2061 SUMMER JOBS · Large resort on eaat entrance to Glacier National Park, Mon­tana looking lor students interested in summer employment lor the following pos~lons: Wa~rons, bartenders, kitchen help, cooka, retail clerks, maids, caa· hlers, cocktail waltrons, daek clerks, of· flee personnel and malntenanca. Monthly salary Including room and board. Inter· views wiN ba held on campua In mid· February. Write lor application to our win­ter address: St. Mary RB, Inc., PO Box 1808, Sun Valley, 10 83353. ................................................................ YO HEY, need 2 DUKE GA'S pleaae call· 1152  macwrlt&jlalnt,and mouse ·$900. £3268 Steve. ................................................................ ATT:SKIERS FOR SALE K2 712 WI TYR.360 BINDINGS EXC. COND. CALL LAURIE SHEA 2146 ................................................................ For Sale: Canon Typestar 6 Electronic Typewriter $130 272·1959 For Sale: MlcroSoltWord lor Macintosh. Never opened. Purchaaed at NO $115. 272·1959 FOR SALE-Juki 61 00 Daisywheel Prlnter--$150. Waa $400 new. 234· 7362 Francis................................................................ TICKETS Need GAsior N. Carolina and Duke. Call BIII,200B BIG$$$ FOR N CAROLINA TICKS CALL MIKE 1129 ................................................................ NEED 3-4 N.C. TIXS Call Todd 2551 NE.Eot.ioi:irii'c"Ai:i'CiL',t.iA·GA·rici<E-Ts CALL LARRY 2131" Need 2 GA's lor DePaul. Call Kathy 284· 4380.  o'Aii"iiou·iie-;·coi:o'&E'iiR"·;:·L:iauoii: CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ................................................................ SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca· lion: BOB Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week, 10·530 ph. 233· 2342. Br1ng In this ad and receive $5 off every order of $50 or morel ................................................................ ELIGIBLE STUDMUFFINS AWAKEIII ••• FARLEY ON BROADWAY"' POP FARLEY WEEK "• THIS SATURDAY IS LOOMING NEARIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII FARLEY ON BROADWAY"' POP FAR· LEY WEEK FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR· LEY WEEK FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII FARLEY ON BROADWAY"' POP FAR· LEY WEEK............................................................... Mike S.· Thanks lor taking the time to walk me to the shuttle stop last saturday night. ·Melissa B. MARK YOUR CALENDARS! JAN. 21 Digger DAYI aa declared by the NO ALL-SPORTS ......................~~~~-~!?.~.R.! .....................  A.C.C. thla Wed. Jan 21 eketlng end hot chocolate 11:15. 12:15 ................~~~~~~-~--~~~................ TOASTMASTERS will meet on Wednes­day January 21 at 7pm In Hayes-Healy rm 223. New members welcome! ................................................................ DESPERATELY NEED 2 DUKE STU· DENT TIX·CALL KIM x4440 ................................................................ "'HELPII GOING TO SEE BILLY JOEL IN INDY?? I NEED A RIDE BACK TO SMC ON OWB OR 09. CALL KIM 284· 5535"' MANAGEMENT CLUB General meeting tonight Everyone Ia welcome Check time and location on posted signs or call the officers to the gorgeous arne girl who I saw at Theodore's laat Fri. night wear· lng sweats and a gray top, may I see again soon. ................................................................ NEED RIDE TO CLEVE OHIO 1123-1125 DEBBIE 2980 Pleaae help mel I need a ride to Bowling Green U. this weekend. Will share ex· pensee. Please call Mike at 27B7. Thanxl WORDPROCESSING 277·B131  ~IJNIORS ................................. . HI MANAGEMENT CLUB General meeting, 6:30 tonight, 124 Hayes-Healy WOMEN'S VOCATION RETREAT· Feb. 6-7, 7pm-7pm. To help young adults to discover GOd's call, with an emphasis on nsllgion life. Contact: Sr. Arlene, 284­5599, St. Mary's. TARA COSACCHI IS NINETEEN TODAY! HOPE THIS YEAR BRINGS YOU AS MUCH HAPPINESS AND GOOD TIMES AS YOU HAVE GIVEN TO ALL OF US. MOOI Our bundle of joy, that "oily variety baau· hunk," JOHNNY FURNARI, turns 21 today. Congrats on reaching this day with everything a man could want in life: Friends who love you, a healthy mind, a healthy heart, and a healthy liver -Oh well, nothing lasts forever. Have a great day. Love, Katy, Mike et. al. LOST: Grey knapsack, with book, notebooks, envelopes to ba mailed-from South Dining Hall. To anyone Who haa found this or to the thief that took ~: please return to the lost and found andt!r call Eric at 277·09B4. Especially needed are the contents in the manilla envelopes and the notebooks.  


The Observer 
Tuesday, January 20, 1986 -page 9 
Undefeated Hawkeyes take number-one spot in AP Poll 
UNLV falls to fourth slot after 89-88 loss to Oklahoma 
Associated Press Iowa replaced Nevada-Las Vegas, one-point losers at Okla­homa this weekend, as the No. 1 team in The Associated Press' college basketball poll, ending the Runnin' Rebels' six­week run as the top-ranked team. Iowa, 16-0, took the No. 1 ranking for the first time in its history as the Hawkeyes received 34 first-place votes and 1,263 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. The Hawkeyes edged North Carolina for the No. 1 spot as the Tar Heels, 15-1, received 28 first-place votes and 1,252 points. Indiana, 14-1, was third with 1,133 points, while Nevada-Las Vegas, which got three first-place votes, had 1,088 points. Iowa's only game last week was its impressive 91-88 over­time victory at then-No. 8 Illi­nois in which the Hawkeyes erased a 22-point second-half deficit. The Runnin' Rebels' first loss of the year came at Norman, Okla. as the Sooners prevailed 89-88 in the nationally televised game. Nevada-Las Vegas had a chance at pulling out the road victory but two shots in the final seconds wouldn't fall and 
Do you need $$$$$? Are you good with computers? then... 
Student Government is looking for YOU! 
The Student Government Treasurer's Office is seeking an indi­vidual who will automate our accounting system. You would be responsible for developing a program to maintain records and generate financial statements of all student activity fee trans­actions. 
See 'Becca or Chris for additional info and application in the Treasurer's Office, 2nd Floor La Fortune 12-4 Mon-Fri. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre F"Ilm Series 
Tuesday and Friday at the Snite, the springfilm series has two great films 
Tuesday, January 20 at 7:30pm Carefree (1938) BW, 80 min. Directed by March Sandrich, USA 
Madcap Ginger Rodgers goes to psychiatrist Fred Astaire in this wacky musical comedy with outstanding Irvin Berlin numbers in which the cure is true love. Here the Astair&'Rodgers series is inflected by the screwball comedy to produce a musical that is funnier than ever. 
Friday, January 23 at 7:30 and 9:30 pm Hannah and Her Sisters (1986) Color, 100 min. Directed by Woody Allen 
By all accounts, one of Woody Allen's greatest films and the best film of 1986, this is one of the film's last college showings before it is pulled from distribution to wait for the academy awards and theatrical re-release. Both a drama about three sisters and their romantic entanglements and a satirical comedy about lV producer Allen's fears that he may have a fatal disease, Hannah is Allen's first real audience film since Annie Hall. With Michael Caine, Mia Farrow, Carrie Fischer, and Barbara Hershey. 
All shown at the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Individual admission $1.50. Series tickets also available. Film calendars will be coming in the first issue of Scholastic Magazine. Or pick up a copy in 320 O'Shaughnessy or at the door at the Snite. 
Oklahoma avenged an early­season loss in Las Vegas. 
Purdue, 14-1, was fifth giving the Big Ten Conference three of the top five teams. Iowa and Indiana are also members of the Big Ten, which also had No. 9 Illinois, 13-3, in the Top Ten. 
DePaul, 14-0, was sixth with 974 points, 200 more than Syracuse, which lost for the first time this weekend, a three-point defeat at Michigan. Temple, 16-2, was eighth with 696 points, 16 more than Illi­nois. 
Clemson, 16-0, the third un­defeated major-college team, rounded out the Top Ten with 670 points. 
Oklahoma, 12-3, led the Second Ten with 655 points fol­lowed by Duke, Alabama, St. John's, Georgetown, Pit­tsburgh, Auburn, Navy, Texas Christian and North Carolina State. 
Last week's Second Ten was Temple, Clemson, St. John's, Duke, Alabama, Oklahoma, North Carolina State, Pit­tsburgh, Navy and Kansas. 
Georgetown, 12-2, fell from ninth to 15th after losing -for the second time this season -to fellow Big East member Seton Hall. The Hoyas, who lost by 21 at home earlier in the season, lost 66-65 to the Pirates last Sat­urday at The Meadowlands. 
Iowa comeback tops Purdue 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Kevin Gamble had 10 of his 19 points in the second half and Ed Horton had 11 of 
his 14 in the same period, sparking top­ranked Iowa to a 70-67 comeback vic­tory over No. 5 Purdue Monday in their battle for first place in the Big Ten. 
The Hawkeyes moved to 17-0 and 5-0 in the conference despite playing most of the game without their leading scorer, Roy Marble, who injured his eye when he was hit by a pass with 9': 10 left in the first half and did not return. 
Purdue fell to 14-2 and 5-1 in the con­ference as it went scoreless for more than four minutes down the stretch. The Boilermakers, who led 48-40 with 17:48 
AP to go when Troy Lewis made a pair of Iowa's Bill Jones (14) had plenty to be smiling about. His free throws, tied the game at 65 on a Haw keyes jumped to the top spot in the AP Poll and topped Melvin McCants jumper with 4:48 to Purdue, 70-67 last night to remain undefeated. play. 
Giants' McConkey takes advantage of hoopla surrounding Superbowl 
Associated Press 
COSTA MESA, Calif. Phil McConkey is not let­ting Super 


Bowl XXI pass him by, espe­

cially not all the hoopla. 
"McConkey has moved up to the No. 1 self-promoter on the team," said New York Giants Coach Bill Parcells. "He's passed (Jim) Burt, (Leonard) Marshall and, of course, (Sean) Landeta." 
In Parcells' mind, McConkey is getting more attention that even punter Dave Jennings got in the late 1970s and early 1980s. 
"You have to take advantage of what's put before you," said McConkey, who for $1,500 is writing a first-person column on his Super Bowl experience for a New York newspaper, has appeared on numerous radio interviews and is always avail­able for talks with the media. 
"You have to have fun doing it and you have to keep it in perspective," said the 29-year­old. "It would be foolish not to take advantage of the opportu­nity while we're here." 
McConkey's presence here for next week's NFL champi­onship in Pasadena against the Denver Broncos tends to defy all odds. A graduate of the U.S. 
Schwartz 
continuedfrom page 12 
lao. 
Schwartz says the biggest difference between high school and college play is the defense. 
"My defense has really im­proved," Schwartz says, "but I still have a long way to go." 
She says the best aspect of her game is rebounding, and she wants her field goal percentage. 
"I'm taking enough shots, I'd just like to make more." 
Schwartz is averaging 4.3 points and 14.3 minutes of playing time per game. She had two outstanding games in Notre Dame losses to UCLA and DePaul. On Jan. 5 against the Bruins, she scored 17 points, shooting eight of 12 from the field. She also grabbed seven rebounds and had three steals. 
Last Sunday against the Blue Demons, Schwartz was six for 14 from the field and two for two from the free throw line, totalling 14 points. She had seven rebounds, all in just 20 minutes of play. 
Naval Academy, McConkey flew helicopters for four years before being allowed to leave the service because he suffered from seasickness. 
In 1983, he tried out with the Giants, but the Navy called him back to complete his five-year commitment and the team put him on a military reserve list. 
Since coming back, McConkey again has become a fan favorite. Wearing his emo­tions on his sleeve, he sprints the length of the field, throwing his fist in the air to stir up the crowd before each home game. 
Quarterback Phil Simms has ribbed McConkey about his new-found attention and tackle Brad Benson says jokingly that McConkey has been difficult to be around. 
"We went to the city (New York) the other night for an in­terview," said Benson. "Now McConkey is a helicopter pilot. He has defended our country flying for the Navy and he can't sit backwards in a limousine because he's going to get sick. 
"We expect Annie to shoot over zones for us and also pull down her share of rebounds," says DiStanislao. 
Schwartz chose Notre Dame because of the academics, the location (a three hour drive from her Ann Arbor home), the size, and the basketball pro­
gram. 
"I was expecting tough com­petition," says Schwartz of the rough Irish schedule. "I'm not surprised by the level of play." 
Schwartz says the team's slow start is not due to any lack of effort. 
"We're playing hard and doing the right thing," she says. "We can put it all to­gether, but we need one good win to get started." 
Schwartz, DiStanislao and the rest of the women's team will try to improve the Irish record as they host Cleveland State. 
"Cleveland State is a team that is going to try to press and run on us," says DiStanislao. 
The Irish take on the Vikings tonight at 7:30 at the ACC. 



The New Zealand Yatch KZ7 (foreground) loses ground to the United States yatch Stars & Stripes in the America's cup challenger series. 
. 
'~\.;,"''.;
.. 
:W~·~~;' ' 
~ ~:.:.u • ~ d il ,"'<J~ --~~··. ~~ 
~-... ~~J 
Dennis Conner's boat won the series, 4-1, with a victory yesterday. 
Stars &Stripes clinches chance to win the Cup 
Associated Press 
FREMANTLE, Australia-A ripped sail couldn't stop Dennis Conner from sewing up another trip to the America's Cup finals as he steered Stars &stripes to a one-minute, 29-second vic­tory Monday over once un­beatable New Zealand . 
The Kiwis had won 37 of their first 38 races and 28 straight before they ran up against Con­ner, the world's most experi­enced 12-meter skipper. In the best-of-seven Challenger finals that ended Monday, the U.S. boat whipped them 4-1. 
"Thirteen years beat 13 months experience," said New Zealand's 25-year-old skipper, Chris Dickson, who was in his first America's Cup campaign. 
New Zealand foulups -a poor spinnaker change on the fifth leg and contact with a buoy at the end of the seventh leg of the eight-leg course -were damag­ing. 
That last problem cost Dick­son 30 seconds as the rules re­quired him to reround the buoy. Conner's lead, down to nine seconds before New Zealand hit the buoy, was up to 39 seconds after it went around it again. 
Stars &Stripes, strong going into the wind, pulled away on the final leg, a windward beat, as the breeze packed a power­ful 28-knot wallop. 
Fordham-Georgetown-Notre Dame-Villanova Cons6rtium Progrum to SUMMER 1987 -JUNE 6 to AUGUST 15 
JERUSALEM SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 
IN ARAB AND ISLAMIC STUDIES AT TANTUR 


GENERAL INFORMATION MEETING 
JANUARY 20, 1987 6:30P.M. 120 O'Shaughnessy 
* 
10 Week Stay 

* 
12 Academic Credits 

* 
Field Trips 



The heat is on. 
This summer may be your last chance to graduate from college with a degree and an officer's commission. Sign up for ROTCs six-week Basic Camp now. See your Professor of Military Science for details. But hurry. The time is short. The space is limited. The heat is on. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Interested? Call Capt. Domingo 239-6264 
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
~attcri,IW 
J!lngtr I <!Dultartst 
Jllan lU\LS'al 
1rllt~nv. Janunrl! ZOUJ. t987 8 -t t p.m. «.IJnmdton .ltoom J)RIJlJOt' «.olftgt «.tn Itt' :J.lUJ!Qe 
DE PULE FREEZE AT THE THOUGHT OF MAKING MIIJD.DOLLAR DECISI. ONLY MMHS OOJ OF COLLEGE. 
And then there are those who wann to the idea immediately. These are the people we need at General Re. 
The ones with the extra measure of confidence in themselves and their abilities to accept or reject a million-dollar reinsurance opportunity. After our formal training program, you'll work alongside our knowledgeable staff of underwriters who 'II provide technicaf support and guidance with a minimum of supervision. 
A reinsurance company assumes all or part of the financial risk originally undertaken by a primary insurance company. And General Re is the leader, the largest reinsurer in the country, and growing steadily. 
Few organizations, in or out of the reinsurance industry, are more committed to you or your professional growth than General Re. Or more proud to offer a compensation package complete with excellent starting salary and benefits ranging from major medical and dental insurance to employee savings program and tuition assistance. 
No matter what your degree -liberal arts, business, economics or other 
discipline-we'll offer you an intriguing mix of marketing and technical 

responsibility that will maximize what you've already learned, yet 
challenge you enough to take advantage of our many training and 
and extended learning opportunities. 
So if you're the type that's looking for a springboard to a great career, and not just a stepping stone, 
Join us at our Presentation Tuesday, January 20 at 6pm Upper Lounge University Club 
General Re Services Corporation Financial Centre, P.O. Box 10353 Stamford, CT 06904-2353 
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h/v. 
Injuries 
continued/rom page 12 
be bursitis, and that would be good, but they haven't ruled out an infection," said McCann. 
In last Friday's meet against Ohio State, the Irish lost, 33-6, dropping their record in dual meets to 1-4. Notre Dame had to forfeit 24 points to the Buck­eyes because injuries forced several Irish wrestlers out of the meet, and Ohio State's other nine points came on three one-point losses suffered by Notre Dame. 

"I think they expected Ohio State to be better than they were. We respected them too much. We didn't win the close matches because we didn't hustle like we should have," said McCann. "I think we as coaches might have more con­fidence in our wrestlers than they do." 

---~--~---~---------­
']I['4CJt.cll4tll~----------------------------------------------------------TU•e•s•d•ay•,•J•a.nu.a.ry._2o•••
19•8•6··-pa•g•e--11 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
ANP 5TCY6 IS 60hV& /t1fl0, WHY AI?& }W 5TCVE COlP 17//(I<C'f Fl(c::w! !Uf(fN(:; AT1H€ IINP OPr/5 C/6111?€~5.!!01/I?PfNG H(J(J5{ liKe IN51~~­
I 

ffl'Al1 VP fER(! I 
/{ // 
//
// 
' 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 


BR0111EIH CAN'T ~L/[V[ 
EXCUSE HE-IJOI(H ?I IJO/'IT 
8/JT DO YOU KNOJ.J WIIIJT BEEN t.IALK!N6 FOR HOURS 
TillS-IT5£[115 L/k£ I'VE 
KNOW WHAT YU TALKIN' ANO J; rr!LL CANT S£[ 
DOH11 WE'R£ ABOUT MISTEl o's!-/Af•. a 
NEAREST TO? Bvr ru'o 8E5T GET OUTTA Tl/15 
0 
'f>-1
t-i 

HERE ~LIZZMP. 
"-A / 
~ 
f 7 

CLOP C&.OP c.&.OP 

GREAT. JV/)6JN6 BY fH£ ACCfNT r MUST 
BE ALL 111[ WAY OV£1? 
IN 5CUTH QUAD •.••• 
0 
0 
I \1• --~ 
d\' 'I (-) I_ 
•:~::?'/Jll;!J}: ).d ~ J 
(.LOPc...Oe. I I --:;: 
"Cl-~G !II ,,, 
1·20 

Campus 
12:30-4:30 p.m.: Sign-ups for Neil Simon's play, "Biloxi Blues" at the Morris Civic Auditorium, tickets $12 including trans­portation from the main circle. Play is on Friday, Jan. 23 
7:00p.m.: B.C.A.F. fashion show try-Outs, Washington Hall, general admission $1 6:30p.m.: General meeting, Management Club, 124 Hayes-Healey 
7:00p.m.: Meeting, AIESEC, 220 Hayes­Healey 
The Observer 

Notre Dame 

Veal Parmesan Cabbage Roll Rotini with Spring Vegetables Tomato Cheese Bagel Melt 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Baked Breaded Fish Bean Chimichanga Deli Bar 
~~ 
*24 HOUR•HELPI.M* 
One .... From The Notre o.me Campua 

Simultaneously all three went for the ball, and the coconut-like sound of their heads hitting secretly delighted the bird. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Make fun of 5 Relative 
of 33D 
9 Sound to attract attention 
13 Relief 
carving 14 Talon 15 Northern 
constellation 16 Staggering 17 "-Whitting­
ton, Lord 
Mayor..." 19 -Deighton 20 Stage whisper 22 Rot 23 Goat cheese 25 106 26 Odin's wolf 27 AM 30-Hill 33 St. Francis' 
birthplace 36 Br. young man 37 -time (never) 38 Do••qlas title 40 Slig .. tly mad 42 "Of-and 4 Novelist Emile 
Men" 5 Moving 43 Degree: abbr. 6 Dodging 45 Britain's J. -7 Steak order 
MacDonald 8 Possess 46 Choose 9 Horatio­47 Sp. port 1 0 Bell-shaped 49 Man for one flowers 51 --Magnon 11 Silkworm 52 Chalcedony 12 Great deal 56 Keep clear of 13 Young animal 58 -del Greco 18 Arabian gulf 
(lt. city) 21 Write 60 Fib hurriedly 61 Asian island 24 Burning 63 Truly! 26 Ruler 65 Read poetry 28 Bear: Sp. 66 Connectives 29 Not at home 67 Prodded 31 Draft classi­68 Congers fication 69 Gusto 32 Group 70 Stopovers 33 Before meter 
or sphere 
DOWN 34 Send 1 Street show 35 Furniture 2 Idiot piece 3 Omega cousin 37 Tops 

Applications are being accepted for the position of 
Managing Editor 
Personal statement and resume due by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 21 Please contact Joe Murphy 
239-7471 
3rd Floor LaFortune Student Center 
Women's Care Center I Pregnancy Help Center 
417 N. ST. LOUIS BLVD. 
Wed., Jan 21st 11:15-12-15 sponsored by SAB 

~­
~--------------------------------~--------------------------­
s 0 rt s 
Tuesday,January20,1986-page 12 

~----------------------------------------------------------­
fencing teams face living up to last year's precident 
By TRISH SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing squads may feel like they have a lot to prove this season. 
The men's team enters the 1987 season trying to defend the NCAA title it captured last year. And the women's squad, headed by NCAA individual champion Molly Sullivan, may have revenge on its mind as it will try to improve on its second place finish in the tourn­ament. Irish eyes should keep a watch on these two teams, because from the look of things, the '87 season spells continued success. 
"We lost some very talented fencers on the men's roster," 

The Irish men's swim team 
Head Coach Mike DeCicco says. "There's no doubt that they will be difficult to replace, but I still think we will be in the running for the NCAA's again. We have a nice blend of experience and youth on the squad and I'm excited to see how the season unfolds." 
Women's head coach Yves Auriol relays the same confi­dence in his squad. "We enter this season with a good chance of winning it all. I think we have both solid individuals and good depth, and that's what it takes to have a championship team." 
Certainly after this weekend's action, both coaches seem to be right on track with their teams' assessments. The Irish squads dominated Stan­ford on Friday. registering 
finished the while falling to 


weekend with a 3-1 record, beating Northern details the men's and women's action in his Illinois, Western Ontario, and Northwestern article at right. ' 
Wrestling faces Athletes in Action 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Tuning up for a weekend date with national powerhouse Ne­braska, the Notre Dame wres­tling team is taking a shuffled lineup into an exhibition match with Athletes in Action tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. 
A Christian-affiliated group of former college wrestlers, Athletes in Action travels all over the United States and the world, competing against teams across the globe. 
"They're all post-graduates, and they were really great col­lege wrestlers, so it'll be pretty tough," said Head Coach Fran McCann. "They've been to Czechoslovakia, Poland, West Germany, and they wrestle the finest competition. I look at it as just some good competition for the kids." 
While Athletes in Action can use experience as a strong point, the Irish will be featuring several not-so-familiar faces in tonight's match. With sopho­more starters Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser still out with in­juries, many wrestlers are changing weight classes so Notre Dame will only have to forfeit one match in the meet. 
Senior Carl Hildinger, a three-time monogram winner at 118 pounds who has not seen much action this year, will start at 126 pounds, freshman Mike Sheets will start at 158 pounds, and Mike Crounse will start at heavyweight, marking the first time all year Notre 

Outside shooting, rebounding 
make Schwartz' future bright 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
An important member of the strong front line of the Notre Dame women's basketball team, as well as an important part of the team's future, is freshman Annie Schwartz. 
A 6-3 forward from Gabriel Richard High School in Ann Ar­bor, Mich., Schwartz has started five games for the 3-10 Irish and has performed well coming off the bench for Head Coach Mary DiStanislao. 
Schwartz' high school team was undefeated 09-0) during her senior season as she averaged 21 points and 14 rebounds per game. She also blocked 65 shots and shot 51 percent from the floor. 
"The aspects we looked at when we recruited Annie were her ability to shoot well from the perimeter and her rebound­ing instincts," says DiStanis­
see SCHWARTZ, page 9 

wins of 22-5 for the men and 13-3 for the women. That upped each teams' remarkable win­ning streaks to 54 and 24 respectively. 
As has been the tradition with DeCicco's teams, the foilists lead the way for the Irish. DeCicco was especially pleased to see rookie fencers Derek Holeman, Joel Clark, and Colin Gumbs register their first Notre Dame wins. Return­ing All-Americans Charles Higgs-Coulthard and Yehuda Kovacs also came away with perfect slates on Friday. 
"I expect Higgs-Coulthard and Kovacs to wins bouts," DeCicco says. "But I have to admit, seeing those freshmen win their first bouts was very impressive. The foil team is 
The Observer! Michat1 Ury 
Minnesota. Kelly Townsend 
Dame has been able to compete in the heavyweight match. 
"It all depends on whether our kids are intimidated by the maturity of Atletes in Action. We have a lot of inexperience. If we're not intimidated, we can hold our own with them," said McCann. "They're con­stantly on the road, so we might be better conditioned." 
McCann hopes to have Durso and Geneser back by Saturday, the day the Irish take on Ne­braska. Durso is out because of his injured left shoulder and Geneser is having problems with his knee. 
"It's just a day to day thing with Durso's shoulder. The last report on Geneser is it might 
see INJURIES, page 10 

Freshman Annie Schwartz 
has started five games 
going to be our strength this season." 
If the foilists falter by chance, DeCicco need only turn to his talented sabre team to pick up the slack. Led by senior captain Kevin Stoutermire, the squad posted a combined 7-2 mark last weekend. Stouter­mire posted a 3-0 mark and junior Geoff Ross went 2-0 in his first time on the strip in al­most two years after missing the '86 season with a broken leg. Sophomore Tim Collins split a pair of bouts in the num­ber three slot and freshman Danny Yu won his first bout as an Irish fencer. 
The chink in the armor for the Irish may be with the inex­perienced epee team. Senior captain Tim Vaughan fenced well in the opener (2-0), but the rest of the squad struggled to a 4-3 mark. 
On the women's side, Auriol could rely on his veteran leader and some youthful back-ups to give the Irish a victory. Sul­livan once again paced the team with a 4-0 record against the Cardinal. Sophomores Janice Hynes and Kristin Kralicek, as well as freshman Anne Barreda stepped in and all registed 2-0 wins in their respective bouts. 
"I was very happy with the way we fenced against Stan­ford," Auriol says. "I am espe­cially encouraged when I look at who I have on down the roster if I need to substitute for 
see FENCING, page 8 
Swim teams emerge with mixed results 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
On Sunday, the Notre Dame men's swim team completed a three-day meet schedule with a three win, one loss record. Using their team depth, the Irish kept fresh swimmers in most of the events. 
But the women's team, despite strong individual ef­forts, only managed to win one of their four meets. 
The streak for the men began on Friday night with a victory over Northern Illinois, 148-100. Lead by a strong group of frees­tyle swimmers, the Irish were able to take an early lead over the Huskies. Mike Messaglia and Roland Hartzell took first and second in the 1000-yard freestyle, while John Froman and Chris Petrillo followed it up with a one-two placing in the 200-yard freestyle. 
First and second place 
finishes were also captured by 
Eric Bohdan and Stephen Cof­
fey in the 200-yard backstroke 
and by Charles Niedhoeffer 
and Bernie Niehaus in the 200­
yard breAststroke. 
The Irish finished. off the 
meet with another one-two 
finish, this time in the 200-yard 
freestyle relay. Both four-man 
squads passed the old Rolfs 
Aquatic Center record of 
1:29.70 with times of 1:26.54 and 1:28.17. 
Coach Tim Welsh was im­pressed by the excellent perfor­mances. 
"We had a very convincing win," said Welsh. "The perfor­mances showed our team depth. With such a large team, we keep coming at them. The 
see WELSH, page 8 
~umbers encourage women's track club 
Having just finished its first meet in Michigan last weekend, the Women's Track Club will participate in an invitational at Eastern Michigan this weekend that will include teams from Texas, Michigan and Villanova. 
The unusually large number of people involved in the club this season gives this year's team good reason for optimism. 
"We have about 23 people this year. Last year toward 
Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 

the end of the season we traveled with five or six,"· said Club Co-President Kathy Lehman. 
While the Irish have traditionally had a fair amount of distance runners, this year's squad, led by women's cross c.ountry coach Dan Ryan, has athletes to compete in other areas as well. 
"We have some people for field events and some middle distance people and sprinters along with the long distance people we usually have from the cross country team," said Lehman. "Things look good right now. People just need to stick with it." 
Before going to its first meet this weekend, the Ski Team will hold tryouts tomorrow at Swiss Valley. see SKI, page 8 




