--r---------------------------.----. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
''• 
Top ten stories-page 10 

VOL. XXI, NO. 136 MONDAY, MAY 4, 1987 ~ · · -_ the independent student ne~·spaper ser' ing ~otre Dame and Saint 'faD·~ · 
_..,._ ' . ' 
250 attend Lee's hearing 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
More than 250 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's testified at an Indiana Alcoholic Beverages Commission hearing involv­ing Lee's Grill & Barbeque Friday. 
The students, who were cited or ar­rested in raids of Lee's on Jan. 15 and 25., had received subpoenas ordering them to attend legal proceedings at Mishawaka Common Council Cham­bers at 10 that morning. 
In individual questioning, three stu­dents refused to answer the prosecutor, citing their fifth amendment rights against self-incrimination. 
Most questions, however, were di­rected to the students as a group. 
The hearing was held to decide "what sanction if any should be taken against" Lee's liquor license, said Joseph Rabb, the prosecutor at the hearing. 
Lee's owner has been charged with 234 counts of allowing minors to loiter and two counts of employing persons who were not licensed, in connection 
The Observell'Suzanne Poch with the Jan. 15 incident, according to 
Color provfded by Anbeuser-Buscb, Inc. 

Rabb.Reflections of . . . Lee's owner was also charged with 
Three Notre Dame men relax on a free· The weather looks to improve over this imals this week, the opportunities to 12 counts of allowing minors to loiter floating diving dock, taking in the sur­past weekend's dreai'y skies, but with relax in the sun might be limited. as well as violations of Indiana "Happy rounding scene of St. Joseph's Lake. Hour" laws. 
For a half an hour, Rabb, defense attorney Melvin Reed, and Judge
New academic honor code to be i~nplemented 
Robert McNevin, hearing judge of the 
Indiana ABC, asked the group ques­By KENDRA MORRILL the development of honor," said Wil­•a pledge signed by each student in­tions. Students were asked whether Staff Reporter liams. dicating willingness to abide by the they had been "carded" at the door, 
He added that although the present code and a pledge signed by each stu­whether they presented false identifi-
Beginning in January of 1988 and en­academic honesty policy causes no dent when submitting work indicating . cation and what police said when they ding in January of 1992, the University overwhelming problems, he believes it that the student has neither given nor arrived to begin the raid. will conduct a four-year experimental does not rely enough upon the students' received unauthorized aid The prosecutor then called four indi­program designed to accustom stu­maturity. •a requirement that any student vidual students to testify. The first dents to a full honor code. Under this experimental system, cer­aware of an honor code violation report three refused to answer questions on 
On Tuesday, April 28, the Academic tain freshman and upperclass courses the violation (a student not acting on a the grounds that they might in­Council passed a resolution implement­will be conducted under a full honor known violation will be considered to criminate themselves. The judge dis­ing the new honor system. code. be violating the code) puted their need to invoke the fifth 
Father Oliver Williams, associate The dean of the ,Freshman Year of •student participation in the investi­amendment, saying they were in no provost of the University, will oversee Studies will designate which freshman gation and determination of guilt or in­jeopardy because their individual cases the program as chairman of the courses will be taught under the honor nocence of alleged offenders had already been disposed of. Honesty Committee. code. Faculty members teaching up­•a system of sanctions. There was confusion among the stu­
"One of the hallmarks of a Catholic perclass courses may volunteer to use Violations of the honor code will be dents, however, because those in pre­university is to instill virtues of a Chris­the honor code, with approval of the reported to the dean of the college in trial diversion programs did not know tian way of life. Learning cannot be dean of the college in which the class which the violation occurred. The dean if their cases were officially disposed value-neutral. One of the central is taught. will then refer the reports to Honesty of. Some students were also reluctant 



virtues in acdemic life is honor . . . The proposed honor code contains: 
see HONOR, page 7
Notre Dame is committed to fostering llunproctored examinations 
Leadership at the top changes hands 
By MARK PANKOWSKI more than anything, not in •continue Notre Dame's "es~ hallmark of Notre Dame up to Managing Editor changes in priorities or in the tablished legacy of high­now.'' way we do things at Notre quality undergraduate educa­"And to make all this hap­
It hasn't happened at Notre Dame," said Father E. tion." pen, we're going to have to Dame for 35 years, a period William Beauchamp, who will 8Get more women and raise money," said Malloy, longer than at any other Amer­serve as executive vice presi­minorities involved in adminis­who got his nickname "Monk" 
ican college or university. dent in the new administration. trative roles at the University. as a child and not from his Following commencement Striving for same goals •Look at student life, includ­profession. on May 17, it will happen again. Malloy said as president he ing the use and abuse of alco­Leadership styles differ 
A new administration will will continue striving toward hol. Although Malloy's and Res­take over for the old. Father · many of the goals that have 8Examine the problems of burgh's goals may be similar, Edward "Monk" Malloy will already been set by Hesburgh. minority students and faculty. their personalities and leader­succeed Father Theodore M.. Speaking in an interview and -continue Notre Dame's ship styles apparently differ. Hesburgh, who is retiring after at the press conference called tradition of residentiality by at­Already much has been said 
see LEE'S, page 3 

Last 
•
ISSUe 

35 years as president of Notre to announce his selection, Mal­tracting high-quality dor­and written about the contrasts 1 This is the last regular edi­
tion of The Observer for the Dame. loy spelled out some of these mitory staff members. between the two men. 
1986-87 school year. The Ob­
The transfer of leadership goals: •Maintain ''the standards of Malloy is described as a will bring a change in style, ad­•Attract capable faculty to the Joyce era-that competitive friendly, thoughtful, even­
server staff wishes good for­ministrators say, but little make Notre Dame a major re­high-quality athletic pro­tempered leader who makes 
tune to all graduating change, at least immediately, search institution. gram," while at the same time, decisions only after much 
seniors and a safe and relax­ing summer to all returning 
in the University itself. •Maintain the balance be­maintain the University's aca­consultation, while Hesburgh is "I think the changes that will tween faculty research and demic and conduct standards, 
students.. See you in A~gust.l occur will be changes in style teaching. • something that "has been the see CHANGE, page 6 
• 

The Observer 
In Brief 
Father Thomas O'Meara, William K. Warren Professor of Catholic Theology, has been appointed a con­sultant for the United States Catholic Bishops as they prepare for an international Synod of Bishops this fall in Rome. In early June, O'Meara will speak at St. Mary's during the preparatory meeting of the American bishops who are delegates to the Synod. -The Observer 
Cornelius Delaney, professor of philosophy, has been named the recipient of the 1987 Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching in the College of Arts and Letters, Michael Loux, college dean, announced. The award is given annually in memory of Father Charles Sheedy, former dean of the college. Delaney has taught at Notre Dame since 1967 and chaired the philosophy department from 1972 to 1982. -The Observer 
Neighborhood Study Help Program,the Notre Dame and St. Mary's tutoring organization, will receive a special award at the South Bend Community School Board meeting tonight. The school board is recognizing the 24-year-old program for its help in serving the students at 14 elementary schools and community centers in South Bend. Over 200 students take part in this program each year. -The Observer 
Siamese twins who are joined at the head have left the seclusion of dim days lit by a television screen for a new life as 38-year-old college students. Before becoming students at Compton Community College in California, the twins slept in until noon, then lay "around the house all day, watching TV and being worthless," Yvonne said. They enrolled in basic math and English courses and a computer <;lass, ride a bus to school and exchange small talk with fellow students. -Associated Press 
Reporters for The Miami Herald staked out a Washington townhouse belonging to Gary Hart, and the newspaper said in Sunday's editions that a young woman from Miami "spent Friday night and most of Saturday" with him. Hart, the front-runner for the 1988 Democratic presidential nomination, denied any personal relationship with the woman and denied any impropriety when ques­tioned by Herald reporters Saturday night. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
The SMC Honors Convocation wiiJ be held tonight at 7:45 p.m. in O'Laughlin auditorium. The ac­heivements of all students will be recognized and awards will be presented by most departments to outstanding seniors during the assembly. Those students consistently achieving a GPA of 3.8 or higher will be announced. Also, the Maria Piets and Spes Unica awards will be presented to the outstanding members of the faculty.-The Observer 
Special Olympics needs students to volunteer to live with athletes on campus from July 31 to August 8. Those interested should attend a meeting at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow in the ISO lounge on the second floor of LaFor­tune. -The Observer 
Macri's night for the class of '88 will be tonight. Come out to Macri's from 5 to 7 p.m. and enjoy dinner specials with your classmates. -The Observer 
Weather 
r-· --~

The year ends as it began -with 
i ' :6:!

the weather that made South Bend fa­I , , , 
mous. Today it will be mostly sunny and cool today. High in the lower to middle 60s. Clear and cool tonight. Low in the upper 30s. Mostly sunny and a little warmer Tuesday. High in the upper 60s. 


-Associated Pre 

Design Editor ............... Melissa Warnke Accent Layout ........ Dee Dee Wroblewski Design Assistant .. .. . . . . .. . .. Matt Breslin Typists................................ Colleen Foy Typesetters ...... .............. Shawn Sexton ............................................ Diane Fosco ........................................... Daniel Cahill ND Day Editor ................ Beth Cornwell News Editor.. ........... Ann Marie Durning SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Copy EditOT ...... ........ .......... Rob Hennig Special Page Design .. Mark McLaughlin Sports Copy EditOT......... Rick Rietbrock Special Page Layout .. Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Copy EditOT ....... ... Matt Guye Photo grapher .......... .............. Mike Ury Accent Copy EditoT.. . . Trisha Chambers 
Color for today's paper provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
'ne 0...'et (USPS S99 2-4000) is publishc'd Monday throuah Friday except 
duriiiJ exam and vacation periods. 'Be Olllener is published by the students of the 
University or Notre Dule and Saint Mary's Col.lqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writilll 'ne OlllerYer, P.O. Bo11t Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
ne a..n... is • member or ne Alaoda1ecl Prell. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
Monday, May 4, 1987 -page 2 
Responsibility of press to remain fair and objective for its readers 
There has been much said recently about the duty of Notre Dame's campus press in the com­munity. Ever since assuming my role last March, I have been told privately and publicly 
what The Observer should and should not print if it is to serve its community well. 
I was first told that University administrators were stalking The ~bserver in hopes that we would slip up and print something with which they disagreed. This, of course, would give them an excuse to shut down our operation, and us an excuse not to print anything we personally and capriciously deemed unfit for The Obser­ver's image. 
This advice is so ridiculously fallible that it is insulting. To believe the administrators of 
participate or listen to sensible debate or tolerate objective reporting of somewhat con­troversial issues is absurd. It is an affront to them and those who look to them for leadership. 
On the other hand, there are those members of the community who exhort the campus press 
and then" to show the priests around here that 
the student's pen is mightier than the adminis­
trative sword. 
But for all of their vociferous vituperations 
and shrill caterwauling about conservative, 
"self-censoring" student editors, these people 
are saying the same thing as those who call for 
information to be withheld and ideas to be 
repressed. I prefer to leave the pot-stirring and 
"tail-tweaking" to those who enjoy that type of 
thing, thank you. 
The Observer is here to print the facts and 
issues that affect this community. Writing 
vitriolic columns and putting bees in adminis­
trative bonnets is, as I see it, a lesser calling. 
This is not to say, however, that The Observer 
is going to make everyone happy all of the time. In the Friday, May 1, issue of our newspaper, our Viewpoint section contained a letter from Notre Dame freshman John Tansey. In his let­ter Tansey complained that "The Observer guest columns (on homosexuality) these last few days has viciously re-opened that festering wound." "In the future," Tansey advised, ' "please consider the majority of people who provide the majority of funding for this paper 
and write for their tastes." 
Again, another sector of the community that 
believes it has the solution to making tough 
editorial decisions. We should start tallying up 
the votes from our subscribers and advertisers 


--:--:-----~

will have a temporary shipping and packaging counter at NOTRE DAME!!! 
This counter is centrally located o campus in the West Point Room, just off the main lobby in the LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
MAY th --7th 
MONDAY through THURSDAY 
8:30 to NOON --6:30 to 10:00 P.M. 
The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987 -page 3 

Protestors call for divestment 
By JON THEISEN 
News Staff 
Nearly 150 students, faculty, and members of the South Bend community participated in a rally for justice Friday after­noon on the steps of the Admin­istration Building. 
Through speeches, songs, poetry; prayers, and cheers, the crowd displayed discontent for racism in both South Mrica and the United States. 
"The (Notre Dame) Board of Trustees meets again next week to re-consider their posi­tion on divestment. We want to show them that we are in favor of divestment," explained Patrick Mullen, one organizer of the event. 
Yelling and chanting erupted when Univerity President Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh and Executive Vice President Fa­ther Edmund Joyce appeared from beneath the Administra­tion Building steps during a speech by the chairwoman of the Anti-Apartheid Network, Margarita Rose. 
In unison, the participants in th rally repeatedly chanted, "Divest now." Hesburgh and Joyce rushed to their automobiles and quickly drove off. 
"Is (Notre Dame) a Board of Trustees?" asked Dennis Til­laman, president of the Notre Dame National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. "(Notre Dame) isn't only a building with a golden dome. It is us -you and me," he added. 
"Say a prayer for the op­pressed. Say a prayer for (Notre Dame), that she may open her eyes. Say a prayer for yourselves, that you may open­up and (Notre Dame) may be heard around the world,'' said Tillman who then lead the par­ticipants in the Our Father. 
Professor of Government Peter Walshe expressed his hope that the new administra­tion would take a firmer stance against racism. 
Walshe recalled the involve­ment that the Catholic Church had had with Nazi Germany. He said, "Years after people asked, 'How could the Catholic Church have remained in­volved for so long?' Years from now, people will ask how the University of Notre Dame could have remained involved for so long.'' 
The rally was sponsored by several campus groups includ­ing Student Government, Anti­Apartheid Network, Black Cul­tural Arts Council, Women United For Justice and Peace, the Peace Institute, and the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP. 
Task force to study the ramifications of alcohol use and abuse in college settings 
Special to The Observer 
A 15-member Task Force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol has been ap­pointed by Father Edward Malloy, president-elect of the University of Notre Dame. 
The Task Force has the fol­lowing mandate: 
lito examine the use and abuse of alcohol in the context of contemporary American so­ciety, with special attention to the college and university en­vironment. 
lito provide an appropriate frame of reference for the anal­ysis of the ethical, social, per­sonal, and legal significance of alcohol use and abuse. 
-to determine the Univer­sity's educational responsibil­ity with regard to alcohol. 
lito review present Univer­sity policies concerning the availability and consumption of alcohol as they apply to all segments of the University community. 
The Task Force, which will issue a report and recommen­dations to the University pres­ident by March 15, 1988, will be chaired by Patrick Utz, direc­tor of the University Counsel­ing Center. 
-The Ury Students gathered at the steps of the Administration building Friday afternoon to protest racism in the United States and South Africa. Story at left. 
Lee's 
continued from page 1 

to admit that they used fake ID's because they could potentially be sued in civil court by the tavern. 
Reed later said his client would not sue any of the stu­dents. 
Gale Lighthall, Lee's manager, testified that at the Jan. 15 raid, police an­nounced at the door that stu­dents who showed false iden­tification would be arrested, but those who showed the police no identification would only be cited. He said this encouraged students to "ditch" their ID's. 
When questioned about what police said when they arrived, students made no mention of a jail threat, ac­cording to McNevin. 
Lighthall contended that so many underage people were in Lee's on the nights of the raids because they presented fake ID's at the door. 

. . 

• • ,I • ' ' ~ 
• • ! ' • 
The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987-page 4 

• 
The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987 -page 5 

Gale Lighthall, left, the manager of Lee's Grill and Barbeq•Je, confers with Melvin Reed, his attorney, during Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission hearings Friday. Story page 1. 
'TheWorld'Federalist ~rJCssociation 
announces 
a Bicentennial Essay Contest for College Students 
15Prizes 
to be awarded! 

1st PRIZE isaSl.OOO stipend plus a one semes­ter internship with WFA. in Washington. D.C. Also. participation in an International Bicentennial Symposium, and a NY/DC workshop 
2nd PRIZE is 8500 plus the above symposium 
and workshop. other prizes of S and workshop par­
ticipation 
THE EssAY ToPIC Is: 

•· lf'hat does 1787 lial'L' /tl sav to N S.....t·
' ' -( 
or "Jimt' m11 Jt't' app0' the[{.._\·. comtitutiorw/ principle ~(fcderalism/JJ 
tlie'lf'orM todm?" 

Write P.O. Box 15250. Washington D.C. 20003. or Calll-800-HATEWAH for details and an application 
Committee to appraise teaching quality 
Special to The Observer 
Professor Timothy O'Meara, university provost, has estab­lished a Task Force on the Quality of Teaching in a Re­search University. The task force has the following man­date: 
lito examine all aspects of teaching in the context of a re­search university -in the un­dergraduate colleges, in the graduate school, and in the pro­fessional school. 
•to explore ways through which teaching and research may be mutually beneficial to each other. 
lito evaluate the quality of teaching, advising, and coun­seling at the University. 
lito make recommendations on ways to enhance the quality of teaching and the intellectual life within the context of Notre Dame as a research university. 
The task force will issue a report by March 15, 1988. 
The task force will be chaired by Richard Foley, professor of philosophy. It also includes John Attansio, associate profes­sor of law; Maureen Boulton, assistant professor of modern and classical languages; Daniel Costello, professor of electrical engineering; Jeffrey Kantor, associate professor of chemical engineering; Father Robert Krieg, associate profes­sor of theology; Naomi Meara, professor of psychology, and Daniel Pasto, professor of chemistry. 

Also included in the task force David Ricchiute, profes­sor of accountancy, Randal Ruchti, professor of physics; Lee Tavis, professor of finance and business economics; John Van Engen, associate profes­sor of history and director of the Medieval Institute; Step­hanie Alden, an Arts and Let­ters senior; Susan Faccenda, a third year law student; Rick Deuell, a doctoral student in civil engineering; and the as­yet unnamed Academic Com­missioner for 1987-88. 
Task force to evaluate residential life 
Special to The Observer 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson has appointed a 15-member Task Force on Residentiality. 
According to Tyson, the task force will examine: 
•the quality, sufficiency, and variety of living facilities for undergraduate and graduate students. 
-the criteria for selection and evaluation of residence hall staff. 
lithe structural and program­matic support available to hall staffs. 
•the 
standard of conduct for student residents. 

•the 
provision of services to meet the social, religious, cul­tural, volunteer, and personal needs of resident students. 


~~!!..----------------..!!~:\
' 
~~ Pasquerilla West; Catherine ~~~~~· a~d t~=~~~~~t ~~~f~ra~~ 
Lyons Hall; Father Michael McCafferty, associate profes­sor of law; and Father John Lahey, instructor in theology. 
The task force also includes Jerry Marley, associate profes­Within walking distance to the 
sor of civil engineering; Ken­Untversny of Notn Dame 
neth Durgans, director of minority student affairs; Leslie Griffin, assistant profes­
1404 North Ivy RO!Id 
sor of theology; Evelyn
South Bend. lndlnnn 46637 
Reinebold, director of student "Your Home Away From Home" 
residences; La urine Bink, stu­
For reserve~tlons ce~ll 
dent body vice president; 
(21 9) 277-9662 
Timothy Salmon, co-chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council; 

~---------------------~:'/~ 
Michele Parent, a resident as­
•the relationship between residential life and the aca­demic mission of the Univer­sity. 
The task force, which will issue a report by March 15, 1988, will be chaired by Ann Firth, director of residence life. Other members are Fa­ther Joseph Carey, assistant director of financial aid and rector of Dillon Hall ; Sister 
Annette Giarrante, rector of 
~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~"';;;;~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~;;;;~<~~•~ sistant; and Robert Chal­
1 Ienger, a junior student. 
---···········----········-­
EDWARD FISCHER 

$12.95, paper 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A 
CONTEMPORARY 
PORTRAIT 

'TAKE NOTRE DAME HOME WITH 
YOU' 
Available at the Hammes Bookstore 2nd floor 
Staffs chosen for yearbooks 
By GREG TUEL 
News Staff 
John Kirk, a third year archi­
tecture student from St. Paul, 
Minnesota, has been chosen 
editor-in-chief of the 1987!88 
Dome, the Notre Dame year­
book, according to Anne 
Iacono, the current editor-in­
chief. 
The new co-editors of the 
Saint Mary's yearbook, the 
Blue Mantle, for 1988 will be 
Mari Doti and Kara Cudzilo. 
The Notre Dame book will be 
distributed in May 1988 and 
Saint Mary's book will come 
out in fall of 1988. 
The Dome has also an­
nounced its editorial board 
which will include Ron Almiron 
as managing editor, Paul 
Pahoresky as photography 
editor and Cindy Harrigan as 
copy editor. 
The senior staff of the Blue 
Mantle is still accepting appli­
cations for positions on next 
year's staff. 
Kirk said he has planned new 
ideas for next year. 
"The Dome is traditionally a 
'year in review,' but this year 
I'd rather make it a 'year of 
discovery' -we'll look at those 
things that haven't been cov­
ered by other Domes like the 
campus band situation and 
dorm events," Kirk said. 


The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987 -page 6 
Malloy elected Nov. 14 Malloy, 45, was elected the
Change 
University's 16th president by 
the Board of Trustees on Nov.
continued from page 1 
14. 

described as a forceful and Upon his recommendation, 
charismatic leader who some­the board also elected Beau­
times makes unilateral deci­champ to succeed Father Ed­
sions. mund P. Joyce, who is retiring 
Comparisons 'fruitless' after 35 years at Hesburgh's 
Hesburgh doesn't give such side. Malloy and Beauchamp 
comparisons much credence, will serve five-year renewable 
however. terms. 
"I think all those com­"I really feel confident about 
parisons are rather fruitless at the people in the administra­
this point because you're com­tion,'' said Malloy, who served 
paring someone whose been on as associate provost and asso­
the job for 35 years with some­ciate professor of theology 
one who hasn't begun yet," he before his election. "I think it's 
said. a good working team." 
"I think at the very least you 
ought to let a guy begin the job 'Close working relationship' 
and do it for two or three years Beauchamp agreed, predict­
before judging him on his ing that he and Malloy will 
style," Hesburgh added. "If have ''a very close working re­
you want to make a compari­lationship," a partnership 
son, you ought to compare him similar to that of Hesburgh and 
to what I was 35 years ago. Joyce. 
"And he'd win that one hands "First of all, we're good 
down." friends," said Beauchamp, 
'I'm going to be myself' who was one of the five candi­
Like Hesburgh, Malloy dates for University president. 
doesn't seem much concerned "Secondly, (Malloy) has made 
with comparisons between the it clear that his model is one of 
two. "I'm going to be myself collegiality ... He's made it 
as he was himself," said Mal-clear he and the officers will . loy, who will be officially in­be working as a team." 
augurated on Sept. 23. That team approach already 
"I just want to develop a can be seen. Malloy and other 
style of administration that I'm Notre Dame officers recently 
comfortable with. So rather announced the formations of 
than distinguish myself from three task forces, one on mar­
Father Hesburgh, I'm going to riage, family and life commit­
try to build on what I think are ments, another on residence 
my strengths." life and a third on health and 
Beauchamp, however, said the use and abuse of alcohol. 
his style will differ from the Each task force will issue a 
man he is succeeding. "(The report with recommendations 
changes) will be primarily a to Malloy by March of 1988. 
matter of style, a matter of how Smooth transition expected 
I work with people," he said. Despite the differences in 
Nevertheless, the change in style between the old and new 
style won't mean a change in leaders, Beauchamp expects 
the administration's handling the transition to go smoothly. 
of athletics and business mat­"There is no shake-up 
ters, the two areas for which planned at the level we would 
Beauchamp will be respon­deal with in the administra­
sible. tion," said Beauchamp, who 
"In terms of specific struc­has served as both Joyce and 
tural changes, there may be Hesburgh's assistant. 
some minor ones,'' he said. "The difficulty, if any, is 
"But if somebody were to look when you replace people who 
at the organizational chart, for have been in positions for 35 
example, now and what it years, especially when they're 
might look like in a year, they legends, that's not a simple 
won't see any major changes." thing to do.'' 
TOYO.TA CLASS ciF'B7 
PC»S!iiBLE TD BUY DR LEASE A NEWTt""'"'-'t~T:& 
WITH ND OOWN PAYMENT. 
~lfyou\18 r.ceiwld 1 wrirllblejob offlr, we _.toe-t ~and~~•­oft to I grwtIWl-IMII'IIblwld-I-TCI';OCI. ~ • ..,A IT. ToyotiMolorer.di!Corporwlioloand~par-
IIUY IT 

_, ..._ liE • 1icipltingTo,ota dealer-nowmaiQng itpopibleto;M ..cndit~ diWWIMII'ItwoCIIIIaf'ff7"quiclllppri)\IW''finlncingPOQIarna. 

1---If~ QUIIify.~can buyor.._I_Toyotland~nodownP~¥'*1~ oraecurity ----1 
~will bl requifec1•Whlt'lmcn.wec:an_..proceea yourloln~Mftn2fltourl...See yow 
~iQ'fo)oocl deelertcrprogr.mtpldficL 

Toeppiy.~needl curentdrMr'llicenleand proal atarnpic¥nlr'llorjobalter."..You mayfind ithelpfulto bring along any bat* or creditClld ~Onoe]IOU'nl ~~can takeyourdiOiclatlhe I'IIOit8ICICiCing finial,_c:.nand trucbTC¥J11 '--~Including 
1---··-.--w~ FX16GT·S LJflblc:t. -~ SoIXli'MondcMnto your l*1iciPitingTOjiOUI dealer~-Filoutan IClPiicatiol•and""" buyoriiMe~rww~ Purc:t-.oriiMearrw~ltsmullbla~!•~~June30,1187. A ,_carwt and I ,_Towotl. Who Coukl Aa For~ Men! 
CD 'LD~ TOYOTA 
~~ 
MOPW! 

333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon& Thur 'til 9P.M. 

'No coup planned' Father Carl Ebey, who Mal­loy appointed as his executive assistant, agreed that the transition would go smoothly. "There is no coup being planned right now," he said. ''I presume that any changes that would take place would be gradual changes and would be changes by attritution," Ebey said. "I don't anticipate anybody leaving the University because they're upset with Fa­ther Malloy's appointment. "So there's no big story com­ing out the 23rd of May,'' he added. "Five hundred people are not being replaced." Transition 'more productive' Hesburgh said the transition would be "more productive" than those at other univer­sities, which bring in presi­dents and vice presidents from outside the school.  Father Ned in the library and do whatever I can to helv the University as a utility out­fielder," said Hesburgh. A changing university When Malloy and Beau­champ take over, they will in­herit a changing university. Notre Dame will increase the number of women in the under­graduate student body by 150 in each of the next four entering classes. To accommodate the additional women, the Univer­sity is converting another men's dormitory to a woman's hall. Notre Dame is also building two new women's dormitories, scheduled to be completed in the fall of 1988. In addition, the University is constructing a $6 million sports center, to be used for varsity football, track and field, intra­mural athletics, recreational  the needs of the University without a substantial influx of money into the operations," Beauchamp said. "If you talk in terms of dreams and what we'd really like to have in an ideal situation, $300 million wouldn't begin to touch it." As a result, " 'Monk' and I and the other officers will be spending a considerable amount of time over the next two or three years involved in fund-raising activities," he said. "That will be an on-going thing at Notre Dame always." Succeeding a 'legend' For Beauchamp, taking over for a "legend" has created a slew of emotions. "I guess my feelings about taking over are a combination of excitement, joy, apprehension, fear and anxiety all kind of rolled into one," he said. But, he said "it's healthy  
The new leaders at other uni­versities "come in out of the  sports and physical education classes. Notre Dame is also  fear. "It's one of recognition that it's a complex operation,  
blue and the year begins," Res­burgh said. ''They know noth­ing about the student body, or the style, or how things get done there.'' Malloy and Beauchamp have both gone to school and taught at Notre Dame. They've also attended every budget meeting, promotion and tenure meeting, and important trustee meeting, Hesburgh said. As a result, their transition "ought to be a thousand times easier" than if they'd come from outside the University, he said. Plenty of elbow room To give Malloy and Beau­champ plenty of elbow room at the start, Hesburgh said he and Joyce will remain away from Notre Dame during the new leaders' first year. Once they return, Hesburgh said he and Joyce hope to work from offices in the Memorial Library, one of the 40 campus buildings constructed during their tenure. "I hope to come back and have an office with  building a $1.5 million indoor tennis facility, which will house six courts. University 'in great shape' "I think clearly we inherit a University that's in great shape," said Beauchamp. "It's made a lot of strides under Fa­ther Hesburgh. "And it's in great financial shape under Father Joyce." The University's annual operating budget is currently about $176 million, up from $9.7 million when Hesburgh and Joyce took over. Annual gifts now stand at approximately $48 million, up from $1.1 million, and research funding is at about $15 million, up from $735,000 in 1952. Major fundraising drive To continue its financial progress, the University is scheduled to officially kick off a major fund-raising drive on May 9. The drive, reportedly to be called "Notre Dame: AStra­tegic Moment," has a goal of $300 million. "We couldn't begin to meet  that Father Joyce has done a great job over the years, and I inherit a heritage there's that's awfully impressive ... "You don't replace Father Joyce," he added. "I'm not the next Father Joyce. I'm Bill Beauchamp." Excited about challenge Malloy expressed similar sentiments. "I don't think pres­sure is the right word," he said. "I feel excited about what I see as a challenge. I'm not sit­ting around looking over my shoulder or excessively fear­ful." 'A lot of strengths' Malloy is optimistic about the upcoming administration. "I think Notre Dame has got a lot of strengths, many more strengths than weaknesses,'' he said. "I think people can get really excited about the transi­tion." And what does he expect the coming transition to bring? Smiling, Malloy replied, "Peace, happiness, wisdom, truth ... "  


1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND IN. 46617 

0JAMISON 0INNS 
NEW RENDITIONS 
X 
1621 S/BEND AVE. 
... (kings cellar is our neighbor)... 

ROD PENICKCHRISTY CHOATE 
Hair Designer (formerly with L.S. Ayres) 
PAM SEIDNER 
Hair Designer Owner Hair Designer Manager 

see us for all ur retail haircare 


-------------~~-~-­
The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987 -page 7 

Security Beat 
Friday 
12:45 a.m. -A silver 20 inch boy's bike was found unsecured at Carroll Hall after a resident witnessed two males tampering with the bikes in the rack outside Carroll. The suspects were not located by Secur­ity officers who responded to the call. Bike is valued at $20. The bike was later released to the owner. 
1:27 a.m. -Security responded to a "Peeping Tom" call at Pangborn Hall. The suspect was located and questioned by Security officers. The case will be turned over to the Stu­dent Mfairs office. 
4:30a.m.-Security responded to a call of an extremely intoxicated stu­dent in the Study area of Grace Hall that had sustained some type of in­jury. When security arrived it was determined that the suspect had left Grace Hall. Later, security con­firmed that the victim was a resident of Holy Cross Hall. Security and the Rector located the student who was under control and not badly injured. The Rector advised that he would notify the Office of the incident. 
3:41 p.m. -A non-community mem­ber was questioned extensively by Security officers after Library employees reported that the suspect had been seen in the area on several occasions acting suspiciously. 
Saturday 
2: 19 a.m. -It was reported to Secur­ity a Coke machine had been van­dalized on the first floor of Howard Hall. No damage estimate was avail­able. 

9:45a.m.-A University Village res­ident reported receiving several har­rassing phone calls over the past two months. Investigation is continuing. 
5:42p.m.-Asuspect was questioned by Security after he was viewed shoplifting at the Super Show at the ACC. The property was returned to the vendor dealer and the suspect was escorted off campus. 
Sunday 
1:05 a.m. -A Fisher resident reported receiving several harrassing phone calls over the past several weeks. Investigation is continuing. 
1"'···················,....-;:;;:.~­
•
i Remember those long,i slow-moving lines i North Dining /fall
i
iA short walk back to South Dining HaU: fduring finals week could alleviate i ithis problem and save you time and i !frustration. i fLet's not make this tension-filled i fweek more unpleasant than it already! 
t: A • •
••S. reminder from your student senate. •
.................................................~ 

r~~J£~~ 
DREAMS oF GoLD 
AFFORDABLE 
GRADCJATION 
GIFTS 
Nice selection of women's gem or pearl earrings, pendants and rings under $300.00 
Men's and Women's Watches 
SEIKO * CITIZEN * PULSAR 
NOtSMC STUDENT ID DISCOUNT 277-1655 129 Dixieway South, Suite C Portage Realty Bldg., Roseland 
Honor 
continued from page 1 

Committees which will exist to 
determine whether the alleged 
violations have occurred. Both 
students and faculty will be on 
these committees. 

For a first infraction, the penalty will be an "F" in the course under which the code was violated. For a second in­fraction, the penalty will be dis­missal from the University. 
Williams said at this stage of the experiment only those up­perclass students who desire to take a course employing the honor code will do so. Any classes regulated by the honor code will be indicated in the pre-registration course bulle­tin. 
In addition, said Williams, on the first day of class a profes­sor may indicate that he is thinking about teaching the class as an honor code course. If one person objects to this proposal, the honor code can­not be used in the class. Every­one in the class must agree to be governed by the code. 
He emphasized the fact that many students graduating each year will some day be run­ning corporate and academic America. "We have some very important future leaders on campus," Williams said. 
''(Faculty members) have to do all they can to educate Notre Dame graduates to be as strong as they possibly can,'' Williams added. He said acknowledg­ment of the trust and maturity of students will help students to grow morally. 
Notre Dame employed an honor code prior to 1969, at which point the code was aban­doned when members of the Student Honor Council resigned because they did not think students were committed to the code. 
Williams said he was not here during that period, but believes the code may be more success­ful today. ''There seems to be a feeling that people are more interested in making it work," he said. "Moral development is a primary mission of the Uni­versity. Faculty members want to use every educational tool available to help students grow." 
If the experimental program 
is successful, according to Wil-
Iiams, the University will con­vert entirely to an honor code. The Academic Council will vote after the completion of the four­year experiment on the success of the program and whether to require all students to follow the honor code. Afinal decision on the full honor code will be made by the Academic Council in April of 1992. 
If the code is approved, said Williams, any student coming to Notre Dame will have no choice but to be governed under the honor system. He said he personally hopes the honor code will be installed perma­nently. He succeeds Father Edward Malloy as associate provost. Malloy chaired the Honesty Committee since 1985. 
Thursday 
3:15p.m.-A visitor reported her ve­hicle had been vandlized while it was parked in White Field. The visitor had been attending the Neil Diamond concert. The vinyl top of victim's auto was slashed and estimated damage was $460. 
5:38p.m.-ALyons resident reported her locked bicycle had been stolen from the Memorial Library. The bike is a red women's Schwinn and valued at $100. 
10 p.m. -An employee reported her purse had been ransacked and that $20 cash and a $200 Yoshika Camera had been taken. The purse was in the Library Lounge. 
10 p.m.-A Fisher Resident reported his bookbag was taken from the lobby of the South Dining Hall during dinner. Value is estimated at $20. 
10:01 p.m. -An off-campus student was questioned by Security after it was confirmed that his vehicle con­tained a stolen hang tag. The report was turned into the Student Affairs office. 
10:13 p.m. -An off-campus resident reported that a Sanyo AMFM Cas­sette player and 15 tapes were taken from an unsecured room in the Art Building. Total value is approxi­mately $270. 
11:20 p.m. -Security officers responded to a confrontation at the Rockne Memorial between students and non-community members playing basketball. The non­community members left the campus after being questioned. 
GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS THURSDAY, MAY 7th THRU TUESDAY, MAY 12th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 7th THRU MAY 12th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30 p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED lOOlbs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

Walking distance from campus 
• Across from The Great Wall =-c~a~ 


The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987-page 8 
}r, I 
1 
( 
I 
I, 
r 
~ 
r. 
....... -..... --.. -.. , .. , ..... "··· ., ......................... .. ,"' .. .. -~ 
New Pizza in Packs from Pizza Hut® Delivery! Now you can enjoy your favorite pizza twice as much. Get two 14" Family Size Pizza Hut® Pizzas in our new TWin Packs, delivered hot and fast to your door for just $10.99. A SAVINGS OF OVER $6.00! And what's more, you know Pizza Hut® quality goes into every pizza we deliver. So give us a call, Pizza Hut® Delivery is going all out to bring our best ­home to you. Hours: 11:00 AM-12:00 Midnight Sunday-Thursday 11:00 AM-2:00AM Friday-Saturday Our Pizza '!Win Pack Offer! 'IWo 14" Family Size Pizza Huf Pizzas For Just$ ' e e SAVE OVER $6.00 Now save on toppings, too. Additional toppings at $1.29 per topping covers BOTH pizzas. For two 14" Family Size Pizzas you pay only: (With Coupon Below) Cheese .................... $10.99 3 Toppings ................. $14.86 1 Topping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.28 Supreme (6 Toppings) . . . . . . . . 14.86 2 Toppings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.57 Super Supreme (9 Toppings) . . . . 16.15 For F~t Delivery Call: 232-2499 '~ 19X7 Piz7.<s Hut. Inc. Limited Delivery Arear---------------T---------------1 1 'IWo 14" Family Size Pizzas! 1 'IWo 16" Party Size Pizzas! 1 I $}0 99 1Wo 14" Cheese Pizza'i-$10.99 I $}3 99 Two 16" Cheese Pizzas-$13.99 I 1 • Additional toppings at $1.29 I • Additional toppings at $1.89 I SAVE OVER S6.oo! per topping covers BOTH pizzas! SAVE OVER ss.oo! per topping covers BOTH pizzas!I I -IValid only at participatin~ Piz7.<s Hut'"' Delivery units in Valid only at partkipatin~ Pizza Hut'•> Delivery units inI South Bend. Mishawaka and Osceola. Not valid for dine in 1 South Bend. Mishawaka and Osceola. Not valid for dine in 1 or carryout. One coupon per party per delivery. Not valid in • or carryout. One coupon per party per delivery. Not valid in .-.._ I .e;comhination with any other Pizza Hut'"' offer. $15. cha~c 1 comhination with any other Pizza Hut(.ii) offer. $15. char~c ~ I on all returned checks. ~ ~a on all returned checks. nl....,a: Ctdl't23l2m~2499h~Ul ~Ut® : Ctdt';ly23l2m~2499h ~lSl ~itt® : < 1!»1; l'oa.o llul In, llur .tnwr' <~rT)' nu mur.· th"n $:!11 I :.!IK '·"" rnlt-mroto"n ,·.oluo· l.11noc .. J Jo·lowl\· .oro·.o I • l•oK; l'oa~o llul. "'' I lur Jnwrs ,.trTv nu n10rr th.on $:!11 I :!IIC ,;,~h r.·J,·mpllun ''Jiu,·. l.ornoll'J J•·lowry JrcJ.L ----------------L---------------_J  

,.~ ~

·············-···· ... ········---· 
"ielV~_O_i_n_t_____________
M-onday-,May-4,100-7-pa-ge9 

P.O.BoxQ 
Notre Dame thanked for loving support 
Dear Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Administration: 
Presently we will be directing indi­
vidual thank you notes to the many 
people who extended their sympathy to 
us at the time of Michael's death. At 
this time, we want you, the Notre Dame 
Community of which Michael was a 
happy fulfilled member, to know how 
much your outpouring of care, support 
and love means to us. 
Michael loved his friends ; he was challenged by his studies and comfort­able in his surroundings. We· would anxiously await his Sunday night calls when he would relate the newest hap­pening at Zahm, news of the band, the bookstore basketball league, the paper that was due, the date he had or didn't have, the party he made, the B that he thought was going to be a C, and visa­versa. 
You, his fellow students, were the core of his happiness. You are special, as is Michael. Your being with us, either personally or through letters, ad­vising of your prayers and expressing your desire to help lift our burden of sorrow, is very meaningful to us. It tells us that Michael, who was so important to us, was of a vibrant importance to you. 
We would like to thank the faculty and administration for maintaining an institution that truly lives. For creating an environment where young men and women, like our Michael, can develop into the image of our Creator. Your per­sonal kindness to us during the darkest of nights is deeply appreciated. 
Someday, when the memories are not so painful, we will come back to Notre Dame. In the meantime, know that we receive great joy in hearing from you. Lastly, we believe on the best authority, Jesus Christ, that Michael, in a very special way, is still with you at Notre Dame, as he is with us. 
Michael, Dorothy, Katherine & Amy The Family of Michael C. Cogswell III Class of 1988 

Minorities' opinions deserve respect 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing in empathy with the letter published in last Friday's "View­point" on the topic of homosexuality, or more accurately, the banishment thereof. This latest public attack on homosexuality was commendable, however within it were many fresh and promising ideas which were not al­lowed to reach full and just fruition. 
For example, we too are alarmed and shocked by the presence of homosexuality on campus. In this recent letter to the editor, the presence of homosexuality was described as a "festering wound," the thought of which would make "any decent, red­blooded American" puke. On reflection of this author's brilliant assessment of the situation of homosexuality, we feel that this festering wound that homosexuality represents for society should not be cured, but rather exter­minated. As he says, we should not be "continually subjected to revolting scenarios" about the intimacies of two homosexuals. The thought of two being being "very happy, very romantic," and "blissfully" in love is enough to turn my stomach. 
With regard to the news media, the author termed the articles on homosexuality as a "misuse of Univer­sity media to forward the aims of a minority group." We totally agree. The purpose of media is not to inform the public on irrelevant issues concerning minorities, but rather to further the rightful dominance of the majority. As was so strongly implied by this author, freedom of speech and freedom of the press are just excuses for insubordina­tion, and they should be abolished to preserve the greater good of the ruling majority. The plights of the Jews, blacks and women do not, and need not, concern us. In order to uphold our com­munity whose goal is to rise above the mediocrity of weaklings, we do not have time to concern ourselves with the trivialities of minorities. 
The author stated that if he had it his way, "homosexuality would not exist." Well neither should the homosexuals. We, as representatives of the white, Catholic heterosexual male majority should extricate the pestilence of homosexuality from our community. As Hitler did with the Jews, we should make every effort to exterminate them as a people. Not until the waste of our society is removed will we ever hope to be pure. After all, are we not the master race? 
Sich heil! 

James R. Otteson Matthew A. Grayson Flanner Hall 
Hatred has no place in good writing 
Dear Editor: 

I wish that The Observer would offer Mr. John P. Tansey a regular column as food editor so that he could teach those of us looking for new recipes for ignorance and hatred how to serve up our sputum and vomit as appetizingly as he did in his letter on Friday, May 
1. What delectable tidbits from his oh, so refined palate could we savor as he shared with us his "tastes" regarding women, blacks, foreigners, non­Catholics, gays, the elderly, the sick, the retarded (of course, I'm only guess­ing at the range of his gustatory inter­ests). I'm sure that Mr. Tansey is a delightful dining companion with whom any of us could dip into a common bowl and pick out a sweet piece of dung. Bon appetit, Mr. Tansey! 
Judith A. Zaccaria Graduate Student Dept. of English 
Collaborative effort resulted in Gracevision 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to provide some back­
ground to clarify some vagueness in 
Tuesday's article on the Grace Hall TV 
system. It is inaccurate to say that 
Gracevision "began a few years ago as 
one of Rector Lardner's pet projects." 
The ''guts'' of the system is a coaxial 
cable running throughout the building 
with an "F" type wall jack in every 
room. This cable was installed when 
the building was built in 1969, and in 
short-sightedness, buildings erected 
since have not had a similar cable in­
stalled. The previous rector, Fr. Noone, 
sponsored upgrading the roof antenna; 
the residents voted that they preferred 
the antenna to be tuned to Chicago sta­
tions rather than South Bend. Later, 
two converters were added to the sys­
tem to convert Channels 16 and 32 to 
the VHF band. These show up on 
Gracevision as channels 6 and 13. The 
only public channels available on Grace 
come by way of this antenna. We do 
not have "cable" in the sense that we 
have acceess to C-Span, ESP~, or the 
Playboy channel. 
The system allows its own input on 
channel 4; the current rector, Fr. 
Lardner, developed the use of a Com­
modore 64 computer to generate graph­
ics for the electronic bulletin board 
notices. The outgoing hall president, 
Bob Carroll, sponsored the purchase of 
a hall camera to film hall events for 
the station, and to pioneer live broad­
casting. Jan Farrell has headed up a 
team to create original video for the 
station, and Ed Trifone has taken on 
the task of arranging programing. The 
system has been financed by the hall 
through profits from foodsales. The 
success for Gracevision so far, and its 
possibilities for the future, is due to a 
long, collaborative effort by many 
people. 
Gerald V. Lardner Grace Hall Rector Ed Trifone Grace Vision Director 

Stealing Common Sense is student censorship 
Dear Editor: 
In "We Hold These Truths," John 
Courtney Murray expressed the mind 
of St. Thomas Aquinas on society with 
the quote, "Civilization is formed by 
men locked together in argument.'' 
Conversely, he said, "Barbarism is 
not. ..the forest primeval with all its 
relatively simple savageries ... It is the 
lack of reasonable conversation accor­
ding to reasonable laws. Here the word 
"conversation" has its twofold Latin 
sense. It means living together and 
talking together.'' 
The founding of Common Sense took 
a healthy stride toward cultivating such 
conversation and argument on campus. 
The theft and destruction of the recent issue by some local barbarians show how little they understand what a uni­versity is; if they cannot "live and talk together", they should ask themselves why they are here, and so should their peers. There is no point in students clamoring for journalistic indepen­dence from the administration if they will tolerate vigilante censorship from their own ranks. 
Rev. Gerald V. Lardner Rector Grace Hall 

Education involves considering all views 
Dear Editor: 
The issue of homosexuality and its effects on the cultures of the world has come into the press most recently be­cause of the growing number of AIDS. victims. The Notre Dame press is not alone in covering the events in the world related to the issue, and I would venture to say, somewhat lax in so doing. My point is that Notre Dame, specifically, is not exaggerating the im­portance of homosexuality's effects on our society. 
For someone to state that they do not want to hear about events effecting our community should avoid reading com­pletely. Unfortunately, many people at Notre Dame follow this path, and it leads to individuals, supposedly "ed­ucated," who are veiled from the reality of conflicts in society. A student, to be educated, cannot simply learn what suits his-her tastes, but must learn that which will make himber a respon­sible, educated person. That, of course, is my ideal view of a student. The Uni­versity emphasizes the philosophy of a well-rounded education, and I believe any student here should be open to this. Any person opposed to this should reconsider his role as a student at Notre Dame (or anywhere) and his responsi­bility to be informed. 
James L. Thomassen Morrissey Hall 

The Viewpoint Department has an­nounced the hiring of Rene Tripeny for the "Quote of the Day" Person. Tripeny, a freshman from Casper, Wyoming will replace Tom Darrow, a senior from Neenah, Wisconsin who is graduating at the end of this year. 
Quote of the day 
"Climb every mountain, Ford every stream, Follow every rainbow, 'Till you find your dream." 
Oscar Hammerstein (1895-1960) "Climb Every Mountain" The Sound of Music 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef . . . . . ...................... Kevin Becker Business Manager.. . . . . . . . . . . . Brian P Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Ed1tor... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager..... .... Michael Whitton News Ed1tor . . ...... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager.................. Melinda Chapleau News Ed1tor . . . . . . . . Jam Raley Productton Manager...... . .... Melissa Warnke V1ewpomt Ed1tor... . ........................ Chns Murphy Projects Manager... ... . . . . .. ... .. . . Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer as the andependent newspaper publashed by the students of the Univers1ty 
of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary·s College II does not necessanly reflect the polic1es Sports Ed1tor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Denms Corngan Systems Manager... . .............. Shawn Sexton Accent Ed1tor. .... Machael Naughton Controller... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Tracy Schmdele
of the admamstratiOn of e1ther anst1tutaon The news 1s reported as accurately and ObJeCtively Samt Mary's Ed1tor ....... Marilyn Benchik Graph1c Arts Manager. ................... Laura Stanton
as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmaon of the ma,onty of the Ed1tonal Board. Photo Ed1tor . . . . Jim Carroll Development Manager.. Michael Shannon
Commentanes. letters and the lnsade Column present the vaews of the1r authors. Column 
space 1s avaalable to all members of the commumty and the free express1on of varyang 
opanaons on campus, through letters. as encouraged Founded November 3, 1966 

,. 





i r: 
The Observer 
Malloy selection -page 7 
MTUI.Oo\V.~d.,_ 

'Monk' chosen 'Humbled' associate provost to be 16th president of NO 
Beauchamp eleded executive vice president 
Computers ·lllllide 
Ibe~..._....... _.... _ 


Local resident

3 
dies after accident 

Cogswell's death marked the second time this year that a person died after being struck by a car driven by a Notre Dame student. South Bend resident Buddy Moore died Nov. 16 after being struck on Edison Road after the Notre Dame-Penn State football game. The student recently pleaded guilty to a charge of involuntary manslaughter. 
Neil Diamond • pagt! 7 

7 Divestment delayed 8 GLNDtSMC denied 
The Board of Trustees voted to postpone a decision on the University's South African investments at their No­vember meeting. Divestment at this week's Board of Trustees meeting is also not likely as the Board awaits an announcement from Rev. Leon Sullivan. 
Theabsener 
Howard HaD to bouse women oext faD r-l&.t..IIIIIBL-, 
'"'_ ......... 
"""""""~·--~ -~ 
ot.o,·· ......•• 
6 ... 

Top Ten Stories of 1986-1987 
'Monk' chosen 
Ending months of speculation, Father Ed­ward "Monk" Malloy was elected Notre Dame's 16th president by the Board of Trustees Nov. 14. Malloy will succeed retiring University President Father Theodore Hesburgh following commencement on May 17 and will serve a five­year term. Acting on Malloy's reccomendation, the board also elected Father William Beau­champ executive vice president. Hesburgh leaves his post after 35 years as University pres­

ident. 
Junior killed 


Sex-change
4 

for Howard 
Angry Howard Hall residents protested following the Dec. 8 anounce­ment that their hall will become a wo­men's undergraduate dormitory in the fall of 1987 as part of an overall plan to raise the enrollment of women at Notre Dame. Four years from now, 600 more women will be admitted and 600 fewer men will be in each freshman class. 
Student survival • Jlftlt 7 
"kUI<d IS
Administration denies 
jetll.r,plaao
Unlvenity rerognltlon 

collick 0\'K to homoRxual group Callfonaia 
recognition 
A homosexual group seeking access to University facilities and media was denied recognition by the office of Stu­dent Affairs. The Administration also declined the request to establish a se­ries of meetings with the group. 
Tragedy struck at Notre Dame when Zahm Hall junior Michael Cogswell died after being struck by a car driven by a Notre Dame student Dec. 6. After initially being arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated, the student eventually pleaded guilty to a charge of driving under the influence of alcohol, and was sentenced 
to 120 hours of community service. 
Saowrules-~3 

Authorities net lOO / In Lee's Ribs nid 

5 
200 caught 
at Lee's 

The South Bend police continued their assault on underage drinking as three separate law enforcement agencies raided Lee's Grill and Barbeque on Jan. 
15. More than 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were arrested and cited, a record number for a single raid in South Bend. 
Coal bop. page 7 


i_____ 
-·-·· ..• ·---. ____....9 R.A.'s fired 
Two Notre Dame resident assistants were fired after being cited for furnish­ing alcohol to minors at an off-campus party. The two R.A. 's said they received citations because an under­cover officer had watchd them collect­ing money and giving cups to party goers, some of whom were minors. 
Druak drivtna • PIIP 6 




Hetterich, Hashagen, Parrish win SMC student election 

------------' 
Scholastic

6 
suspended 

Scholastic, Notre Dame's student magazine was suspended from publica­tion by the Office of Student Activities for a week in February after printing a photograph previously removed from the Juggler. Scholastic resumed publication after reaching a new agree­ment with the Administration. 
'Pee Wee's l'lllyhoust' -Campus Sctne 


Cooke, Rink win SBP/VP election in landslide 
In with the new

10 
In a runoff election, Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink easily outdistanced their opponents to win the offices of student body president and vice president. A runoff became necessary after the ini­tial election failed to give any of the seven tickets a majority. 
Becker to be Editor-in-Olief 
____... 
:=:-:::-=: ' I ,. 
~~~. 
::::.:::..-:= .;:;. I 
--...................-.....______
.. =-~~-.. -~~--II_. __ .. ___
·~:· 
:;..:::,:a...~ ::=-.=:..":.-..~i,:S_,, I 
~.--­
lnntut l'.t11111 .. · \\ t•t f..t uti 





Monday, May 4, 1987 -page 10 -11 
~...·... ----~~~----------llllllli.--~----~------------------­


Irish topple No.1 Tar Heels 

Rivers, Voce key 60-SB comeback 
~~{~ 
-=-=----==-=
.._..__......
==--":'~-=-"= 
~"::..-....,..... 
_.. __,___,...__
E.=.=.;:-==_:;:::.;:_____.,..
_..__...,. 
___...
............. --...--·----··-· 
=n----­
=--~.:::=:;
.......................... 
~=~·:..---..::.
::-:..:::::.-:::..~. 
__,_._.....,._
:-.::-:::..-~::
...._.____= 
::~::::...-­

Indicted suspect to tum himself in today =·.:r.:..::':;..·-··· 
r= ::-,.;:r:.::.::: 

~-=,_, =--cc..-·--:::.."':".:.,.~=.: ===.=.-..:.:-..;:.-:: 
-====-~:= ==:=---:::::::.': ~"=-.:;:::..:-_; =a:-E;;.:.".: 
_ 
~------____=----·"_, -------·-.. .. -........ ___..
...._,., ... __c:..,-·----­

-·---··--_,·-------.....-!:2..____ ..
--·-.. -----·----~-· 
..:..:~-~ "'"'-·---::::-..:e..-.::.---"':...-............ ,... __ 
----··---____..___ ...................... ---..--·· 
_~~wy,..,.....,.,.,

............---..---_.-r.,..., ----_.,__.. __,. ---.. ... ---.1\ot-··----·_.., --._..,. 
-.. .._... ...-"". ·----·--_,_.._.,....,_
__...,..~·-=:===-.-..... -:":""'~·--r:-::.:~·-·-·­
--·-·--_.,. ___ ......--.._
~­

-----· _.___ -~----·-..
~----­

Sports -----=--~ 
Irish fencers face nation's best at ACe I 
Women win  M"" finish  I  
finl...-er  fourth place  
llllionaltitle  at final m<et  

--tU'IIIIIW 
.,_,

--
.. -----· _____
-....---·­
:.:.-.. ­
........ __ ·­
~
::..""':"'.::.:-:.:.-:..-:.:..":_._.•._____ -..... _. _ ­

A Promise Kept
3 
When the women's fencing team was given varsity status, then coach Mike DeCicco promised University Execu­tive Vice President Father Edmund Joyce that it would win a national cham­pionship. This year it did, the first for a women's sport at Notre Dame. The Irish got strong showings from Kristin Kralicek and Molly Sullivan en route to the title. 

Debut Spoiled 8 

The game that had been anticipated since Nov. 27, 1985, finally was played. Lou Holtz took to the field to begin his coaching career at Notre Dame. In a classic game, the revamped Irish nar­rowly lost to Michigan, 24-23, when John Carney missed a last-second field goal. The loss, however, impressed the As­sociated Press enough to put the Irish in the Top 20, marking the first time a team had lost its opener and earned a spot in the poll. 
1986-87 was a year of goodbyes for three Notre Daem coaches. First, men's tennis coach Tom Fallon retired after a 34-year career. Then Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith, who started the Notre Dame hockey program after a 41-year absence, retired after 19 years behind the boards. Most recently, Irish women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao resigned to pursue an MBA degree. All three will be missed. 
~ Comeback 
It was a story that stunned the campus just as another year was begin­ning. On Aug. 24, Irish basketball star David Rivers was thrown through the window of a van driven by former team­mate Ken Barlow. He sustained a 12-15 inch gash across his abdomen and un­derwent three hours of surgery. Miraculously, Rivers was back in uni­form when the Irish opened their season Nov. 21. 
1-~----------------------l 

Bnwen' hot start can bl traced to quality farm system 
ISports ~ '--·­
I

SPORTS
------.. ---·-·--... -·-·. ·--....._,,______ 
Top Ten Stories of 1986-1987 
·-----···-··----· --······ --· --------------·-------·-------·---------·----··--­
On paper, this game was a mismatch but 
when it was over, the improbable had hap­pened. David Rivers hit a jumper with 1:06 remaining to put the Irish on top, and they hung on for a 60-58 upset of No. 1 North Carolina. When the game was over, fans mobbed the court, celebrating a Notre Dame moment. 
Shocker 


Finally!
Finally indeed. Lou Holtz's Irish had been the hard-luck kids all season, losing game after game in the final seconds. Against USC, Notre Dame got it right. John Carney hit a 19-yard field goal with no time left on the clock to erase a 37-20 fourth-quarter deficit 


and give the Irish a 38-37 win. 
Pace ~MKII-pqe 10 
. '' -~­
~-· .·. :-': ~· ~:.:.•.... -. .. ___ ._ .... 
~~;\i~~ 
--~----.. --­
~ ~_
-·-·-·-h..... _...... -__...... --....... 
__.... --·--­
_ ~· 
.....~.. ....... h..olo. 

_:::,.::1.;.::.!:".::::=:. ..=.==::.-:.."":"'"...: ::.=.::.:-..:.::::.: =-----·-:-=.·;~z;-:r..... ~­
W"ortune renovations !ilated for lale-Odober completion 
• .,,_ n,...,,,...,, • • • o-,. • '"·•­
Police kill 12 blacks, 70 others shot in latest Soweto riots 
•. 

~":I' 
•. 1 

• 
~ 
·-----------... 
---------­
::.::-..:'·-·-·-·--·.. ­
Goodbye 
Sports-

Irish slated for Charlotte after defeating Dayton 

a.-fights blgbllgbt flub of 57th aanual Benpl Bouts 

l___,_,, 

5 Sweet 16 
Mter an amazing February which in­cluded ACC upsets of No. 1 North Carolina, No. 15 Duke and No. 4 DePaul, the Irish were in the NCAA Tournament for the third-straight year. Notre Dame, a team some had written off at midseason, preceded to knock of Middle Tennessee State and Texas Christian before bowing to North Carolina in the East Regional Semi­finals. The Irish finished at 24-8. 
Sports 

Stallions run into too much Manhood in Final 
Guards' outa~de game key In Do' Brotb~r•" 21-15 win
, __ 
_ ......."f.O...
.... __.,. ____ 
__...,., ______
--·----·,·­
=·-,....._·--·---­
..tt;.:-:=...-=::.-==::::.::.:
=-=--..~--..---­

Quint too tough for Cookie In Women's Championship 

~-------------------------------------_) 
9 Champs 
Da' Brothers of Manhood, featuring Donald Royal, Joel Williams, Tim Brown, Wes Shorter and Kim Adams downed Leone's Stallions, 21-15, to win Bookstore Basketball XVI. For Leone's, it was the second-straight year the Stallions had been the tourney run­nerups. On the women's side, the Quixotic Quint gained revenge on Double Decker Oreo Cookie (which defeated the Quints for last year's title) to take the crown, 21-16. 
,.......,..... 

ND volleyball wins lOth stni&Jlt, hnds for North Star tolli'IWMDt 
'::-r-:::-~-::l:S:-:? 
I Irish take on Sibenik 
j --··­

1 '""'---·-----­
, :"':":'..::.":"=:--.:":::r::c:.= 
I"V..,..,..~:--~­
1 :::=~-=-~~= 
I ~~--=-~~-= 
I ._...,..-.,.-;;-....--..... 
' =-·---=::...~-==---==
I

-~~--=----.. 
Cross country ends 
Read What Notre Dame Reads 
.-_.,...,_ t2,100 people -ChdbJ--"""*-­
.-.... -·­
.•_.._._...,...............................-.....w.-. 
·~......_ ......::::----.. 
----------·--=====
--·-· 
--~--­

6 Snubbed 
For the Irish volleyball team, 1986 was a stellar season. The Irish finsihed 33-7, including a record 17-game win streak. They breezed through theNorth Star Conference, winning Head Coach Art Lambert coach-of-the-year honors. But when NCAA bids were announced, Notre Dame wasn't among the invited guests. But even that couldn't diminish what the Irish had accomplished. 

Banner Year
10 

The Irish soccer team went 13-7-2 this season in one of its finest campaigns ever. Along the way, the Irish beat the University of Connecticut on its home field, the first team to do so in two years, tied national-power Akron, while suffering narrow defeats to Evansville 
and  Indiana.  Paced  by  Bruce  
McCourt's  scoring,  the  Irish  had  a  
season to remember.  

Accent 
Monday, May 4, 1987-page 12 


The Young and The Restless: Victor and Ashley are reunited 
All My Children: Matt told 
Adam he'd be his new driver 
for the Montgomery Cup for 5 
percentofthe purse. Ross told 
Natalie she couldn't love Pal­
mer the way she loved him. 
Natalie and Palmer were 
married at the chapel. Travis 
met his blackmailers who 
asked for $2 million to keep 
quiet. Coming: Travis faces a 
tough decision. 
Another World: Nancy was convinced that Tony was the serial killer. Rachel planned a surprise party for Mac. The kil­ler broke Into the Cory house and cut off the electricity. He locked the men in the den and terrorized the women in the living room. The men broke free. Michael, Donna, Mitch and Felecia entered thejungle where they believed John was being held captive. Coming: The search for John con­tinues. 
As The World Turns: Sabrina is off to England. Despite threats from Seth, Tonio is still after Meg. Com­ing: Decisions abound for John and Lucinda. 
The Bold and the Beautiful: Brooke got an engagement ring from Dave. She was flat· tered. Rocco went to the Logan house and saw Katy and asked where Donna was. Katy called her sister but Donna didn't want to intrude. Later Rocco called Donna and told her she would be in his dreams. Coming: Rocco con­tinues to pursue Donna. 
Days Of Our Lives: Diana was poisoned by a mystery man, but Mike saved her. Kayla persuaded Patch to agree to Jack's offer to work with him on the Riverfront. Gil­lian put a bomb in Kim's car, then sent her a fake note from Shane to meet at a cabin, where she pulled a gun on Kim. Shane proposed to Kim. Coming: After a beautiful wed­ding. Shane gets a surprise honeymoon. 
General Hospital: Sean and Frisco found Greta In the hands of the DVX. She and Malcolm sneaked away as they grappled with the agents. The parole board agreed to end Duke's parole if he repaid $100,000. Duke's Inheritance arrived, and he and Anna planned their wedding. Camellia remembered killing Evan in L'Orlean four years ago. Coming: Tht wedding Is aborted and Camellia, Anna, and Duke become front page news. 
Guiding Light: Shocked to discover the gun missing, Roxie told Ross and Johnny. Wyatt explained to Rusty why · he put a tail on Roxie in Rusty's name. Christine told Alan she didn't kill Valere. Rusty got a lead on Christine and a search was organized. Roxie and Mindy exchanged clothes and cars to evade the tail. Alan threatened to throw Christine out. Coming: Alan tries to find Johnny. 
Loving: Clay moved into Cabot's office and told Shana Jt wasn't his decision to oust her. He insinuated that if she was unhappy, she should resign. Jack was astonished to learn from Curtis that Clay and· Ava were dating. Trlsha accused Ava of having a bla­tant plan to track another AI· den. Eban took Ned to a classy townhouse where a chic madame brought in a young girl... April! Coming: Ned finds out the truth. 
One Life To Live: Tina had to deliver Gabrielle's baby. Before Tina had a chance to offer herself and Cord as the adoptive parents. Garbrielle told Tina that she and Max would be perfect parents. Larry tried to talk Vlkl out of going to the ranch, but she was determined to win Clint back. Coming: Surprises ror everyone when Tina and Gabrielle return. 
Ryan's Hope: Zena's desola­tion and loneliness flnally poured out to Jack. Mark ad· mitted to Concetta that he was in love with Ryan. Frank and Jill realized that she might be pregnant and were overjoyed. Dee told Dakota she was not so hot on maternity now. When Emily Hall metJack they interacted like TNT. As Pat told Melinda about their future, she quietly died. Coming: A romantic triangle. 
Santa Barbara: Jeffrey told Kelly that Mason ignored let­ters from their mother when she needed him. Eden won­dered If she had become a prisoner. Charges of child molestation were brought against Cruz when he called a little child "Eden" and tried to stroke her hair. Lucy was ready tojump from a rooftop. Cruz hurried to the scene. He leaped to her, but fell off the ledge. Coming: Lucy, Ted, Keith and Hayley are the stunned spectators. 
The Young ~ The Restless: Nikki began to believe Ashley might be a good replacement for her in Victor's life, but she and casey both wondered about Ashley's state of mind. While walking through a cor­ridor Victor saw Ashley, who was stunned. He told her he had to come. Coming: An eventful reunion for Victor and Ashley. 
1987 McNaught Syndicate 

' 
Washington Hall Manager, Tom Barkes performs 
"Summer Night" with partner Judith Denman on Jan­
uary 31, 1981 at the Akron Civic Center. 
A dancer's contribution: 
Promoting 
JENNIFER O'NEIL 
features writer 
Washington Hall --most of us know it well as the site of many long lectures or difficult exams. However, few ofus are aware that this 104 year old building is the "home away from home" for manager Tom Barkes --an inter­esting man dedicated to the con­tinuation and expansion of the arts at Notre Dame and through­out the United States. 
Barkes' interest in the arts stems from his love of dance. As a pre-dental major and member of the varsity wrestling team a\ Hope College, Barkes was your all-around American 'Jock." Junior year, confronted with the dilemma of choosing a required Fine Arts class, Barkes decided upo.rt "Modern Dance" --a class of 14 girls and two guys (odds which he liked). 
At first, Barkes was sarcastic and had fun mocking his dan­cing. "I enjoyed being an iconoclast by showing up late for (wrestling) practice and cockily saying. 'Sorry I'm late coach, I had to dance.'" 
Barkes' dance coach, in need of more strong men and recog­nizing Barkes' potential, asked him to continue lessons and ex­pand them to include tap, jazz, and ballet. Being the "tough guy" that he was, Barkes merely scoffed at the idea. In response, his coach remarked, "Yeah, you jocksjust can't cut it--can you?" This "challenge" was all it took to get Barkes to go all out and 

growth through art 
attack the field of dancing. 
His love and appreciation for dance --especially ballet --grew to such an intensity that instead of going on to medical school, Barkes went to New York and studied dance with the world renowned dance company, the Jaffrey Ballet. Although his par­ents were frightened at this move, Barkes' abilities calmed their fears. He soon found him­self travelling with the Jaffrey to 40 different states, as well as tours and concerts abroad. 
Before Barkes'career was cut short by the development of arthritis in his right ankle, his whole attitude regarding the im­portance ofthe arts in everyone's life had changed. Although it was time to move on and leave per­forming professionally, he ear­nestly sought some way that he could still contribute to the per­forming arts, as well as, promote their importance in the main­stream of society. Therefore, he went into manage-ment of the arts. 
Barkes has been manager of Washington Hall, an integral part ofthe fine arts realm of the Notre Dame community for over two years now. Such a position is ex­tremely challenging at a school where, aside from academics, the biggest interest is sports. 
"The Notre Dame arts has a re­sponsibility to share with the community," says Barkes. But, to his dissappointment, " ... the arts here are not stressed or at a point where they can grow. If the com­munity is inter~sted. a new per­forming arts center is a must." 
Barkes does not deny the im­portance of athletics and sports. However, he has become dis­turbed with the over-emphasis on the winning and losing of sports. This over-emphasis prevents the well-roundednes created only when equal impor­tance is given to the performing arts. Says Barkes," We have be­come so involved in winning and losing that its become a tan­tamount problem today .... I find it frightening and incredibly bad that we struggle to fill Washing­ton Hall when professional wres­tling is packed." 
He believes refuge from sucl. a debasing environment can be found in the arts. Here there is creativity, competition, and a committment to excellence --all of which are key ingredients in sports. However, in the arts, the competi-tion is within a framework of team cooperation and most importantly says Barkes, " No one has to lose, there are no fortunes to be made or lost--instead, everyone benefits." 
In the future, Barkes wants to definitely increase staff support for the arts at Notre Dame and to update the facilities so as to provide a healthier environment within which an appreciation for arts can nuorish. Barkes' dedica­tion to excellence will not only benefit the whole Notre Dame community, but everyone indi­vidually as well. 
Accent 
Monday, May 4, 1987-page 13 
And the winner is ••• 
.... 
., \ 

MIKE NAUGHTON
ll ~ 
features editor 

~...
,
' 0 
~~ ~ Democracy lives. The people J"' ..($'"' ~" have triumphed. At least if you ~ ~ 0 are a Calvin and Hobbes fan they ~ 0 'b~ have. Ifyou are allergic to tigers, ~" ,o . however, I would suggest a quick·~" 'htransfer to another school --on 
second thought perhaps an­other planet. 
You see, C&H fans (Are they Calvinists or Hobbesians?) are everywhere and they're rabid. They make the druids seem like a casual social group. C&H fans are worse though because they seem like normal people --at least until they turn to the funny pages. Then they chortle, chuckle and guffaw their way into an ecstatic delirium and begin to chant "He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute... " The cult ofCalvin remained a secret at Notre Dame until The Observer Comic Strip Contest unknowingly "transmor­gified" the student body into a raving mob of zealots. What was intended to be an election rapidly degenerated into a complete landslide which left Shoe, Mother Goose and Grimm; and Rubes shaking their heads in shock as they limped back to the land of 

4 Dick Tracy and Mary Worth. Ifyou think that I'm exagerrat­ing the degree of fanaticism in 

•
I 
the Notre Dame student body, examine the following real com­ments from real Comic Strip Contest ballots submitted by real Notre Dame students and ask yourself whether Catholicism is still the only religion at Notre Dame. The students's responses to the contest can be summed up in the following categories: 
The "Elvis had nothing on this guy" argument: "I love Calvin!" Kerry Sieger, Lyons Hall "I want Hobbes' Cub," Chris Stauduhar, Lewis Hall "Calvin's my idol." Dave Brown, Grace Hall The "Don Corleone offer you can't refuse" argument: "Get Calvin & Hobbes or die!" Michael Joseph, Cavanaugh Hall "If C&H doesn't win, there'll be hell to pay." Dan Webster, Cavanaugh Hall The "Do it for your own sake" argument: "Everyone wants to be a tiger!" Kevin Sandberg, St. Edward's Hall "The Observer needs Hobbes." Krista Speck. Lewis Hall The "I've reviewed all the op­tions and..." argument: "Must! Have Calvinl" Terry Mul­len, Cavanaugh Hall "Calvin and Hobbes! Calvin and Hobbes!" 
"•.:alvin and Hobbes! Calvin and HobbesIII" Mark Weimholt, Morrisey Hall "Calvin and Hobbes is the ONLY choice!'' Kevin Sidders, Cavanaugh Hall The "He hasn't forgotten little people" argument: "Go with Calvin --he's one of the onlycartoon characters left that's not obsessed with his own popularity." Mike Naplerkowski, Carroll Hall 
The "You don't understand, it's notjusta comicstrip"argument: "Choosing another cartoon would be a crime against humanity." Andy Barlow, St. Ed­ward's Hall 'They rule all planes of exis­tence." Kevin Grogan, HolyCross Hall "Calvin and Hobbes is my life." Chris Simms, Grace Hall The "Subliminal sex." argu­ment: "Calvin is a total ladies man." SOE "Calvin Is high speed." Dan "Hobbes is hot." Candace Lyon, Pasquerllla West The "He's a guy I can really look down on.'' argument: "Calvin's shorter than I am." Mic­hele Burkart Lewis Hall "Calvin is God. That dam Hobbes Is so cutel'' Tripp Baltz o.c. 
The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987-page 14 
n.Ob.-.,... Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 1be a...... Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next•y classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds 
characters per day. 

I 
Furnished Summer Apartment For Rent WE'LL MISS YOU SENIORS! This is it,
To Staph 
GOODBYE!

Call Bart or Paul at 3559 or 3573 
The Girl Who Hated Wind ... Hey Peanut butter, ya better write me
NOTICES PERSONALS 
Thanks for stopping by my semester. It this summer--the jelly
WHO IS MY SECRET ADMIRER? YOUWELL-FURNISHED TURTLE CREEK really made the last few weeks easier to 
SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $319 TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT DURING Are you going to CALLED & I WASNI IN...WHO ARE BRENT BASHAM
take. I wish we had more time. Let's keep YOU?
Lowest Scheduled AirFares to all of SUMMER MONTHS; RENT IS NEGOTI­
be here for in touch this summer and nelct semester. HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, MAY 13th Europe. Call1(800) 325-2222 dept. 518. ABLE: CALL 283-3348;283-3457;283· 
SUMMER SCHOOL??? Keep cranking the Bo Deans! (Now you're LEGAL tool) 1489. 
SPRING BREAK 88Kevin 
Wordprocessing-Typing South Padre Island
If so, The Observer needs your help in 
272-8827 Mar. 12-19
producing some summer issues of the JR YEAR ROOMIES: THANX FOR
Air$118 
newspaper. BEING THERE ALWAYS AND FOR 
SCHMALTZ STARTS HERE -GOOD $25 non-refundable deposit due May 6
The jobs are varied and. if you are inter­SAVING A PLACE FOR ME IN YOUR
WANTED
TYPING AVAILABLE LUCK TO THE INNSBAUCK IRISH, THE Call 239-7080 
ested in newspaper training in your spare HEARTS AND IN WALSH ... I'LL MISS 
SND-ERS, THE LATE NIGHT OBSER­
time, call The Obsefver offices and ask YOU LIKE MAD (YOU TOO LISA!).
VERITES AND ALL 'YOUZ WHO WERE 
287-4082 ADOPTION: We're a happily married for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. C'EST LA VIE. LOVE, SOMEWHERE 
HERE TO BUILD SOME MEMORIES Maggie: Here's looking at you, kid. W.K.
couple (physiciar-.paychologist) who The Observer BETWEEN A & E deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We can and WITH, ESPECIALLY SCHWES. GERT UNIVERSITY RESUME provide lots of love, opportunities, and a Special Olympics Paul Daggs Consider yourself SCOPED! Profesalonal Reaumea warm welcome from family and friends. NEEDS YOUIII "Hey, you spit it all over my dress shoes!" G "AND I THINK ITS GONNA BE A Student RaiN Hey baby ... what's your sign? Cancer, 
Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call LONG LONG TIME" I'LL MISS YOU Near the Mall Elli&'Aian collect (21 2)-724-7942. huh? Well I'm an Aquarius, and you know (EVEN THOUGH I HATE YOU). LOVE, 272-8338 what they say... Woo woo, what a se­
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--­T 
mester. Unbelievable. Classic! Scoff not, 
Need 1 graduation ticket. Will pay big Non-texts for $$$k:redit nelct fall. PAN­Finally incredible. To many more
$$$. Call 3586. DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just you are fun To Keenan A Lacrosse: 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL times, A silly goose
off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEK! You may have played with a lot of class MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 10-530 ph. 233-2342 SPORTS DEPT. But the men of Grace have 
JERSEY BOUND??? I NEED A RIDE GRAD TIX!! My mother will pay $$ for a
Thank all of you for a really great year. nicer...buttocks TO CENTRAL JERSEY FOR THE SUM­couple. Sell me the tix and bankrupt my

SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--­Kaplan LSAT prep Cllllll being 5'12 I really appreciate it. Marty, Rick, Pete, -A Fan 
MER. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. HELP!I mother, please! Call Mychal x3307
for the 615 LSAT. Be your beat. Cell Marty B., and Szy, you all really made it 
Non-texts for $$$tredit nelct fall. PAN­PLEASE CALL SUE AT £4041. 
easy. To those of you returning, see you
DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just 272-4135. in the fall. To those of you who aren't, Tell me,
off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI ....................... Need a female SIGMA TAU DELTA 10-530, ph. 233-2342 
good luck. Thanks again. INITIATION Do you have to be drunk to get Zywna 
roommate GOING TO EUROPE THIS SUM­
DC Monday May 4, 7:30pm stuff? Curious for this summer'! MEMALL? Large backpack for sale! 
PRO-TYPE Library Lounge 
Have cheap apt. 272-8919Quality work, word processing avail­Call Mary x4311 
YOSEMITE-TOUCHE!!!
able. Reaaonable S. 277-5833. .......................... 
NEED RIDE TO NJ ANYDAY AFTER MOVING O.C. ??? Good couch, shelves, MAY 12 PREPARED TO SHARE GAS
Typing-Word Processing 277-5014 Whats-his-face and Whats-his-name are dresser and recliner for sale. Cost you a To my Sweetie-pie:
Need female roomate & DRIVING CALL 272-6594 
too cute!! How dare they?? HOW tad more than coming to pick it up. Mike • "...did you recognize those words? It's for this summer 
RUDEll! or Steve 277-3786 the first line of our song. I think it will Have cheap apt WANT TO MAKE HUNDREDS OF DOL­
always remind me of those candles, and Call Mary x4311 LARS WORKING ONLY A FEW NIGHTS 
champagne and our walks under the NEW ORLEANS 
A MONTH? Graduating D.J. needs to sell starry sky...sigh. I will miss you so
Annie,Babs,Keeks & Moni, Much thanx
RESIDENTS!Ill stereo system. It's too much ol a money­much ...love. S.H.
Need room off campus for summer or GET THAT FIRE HAZARD OUT OF THE to "a certain someone" for introducing me
making opportunity to pass up! Best offer. I need someone to drive my car back roommates to share apartment. Call Phil Call Nick at 1060 for details. HALL, MARY SAGRIPANTII AND to Moni(& consequently to you a:l)l Be­Tripleis:What fun it is to be a girl whenWATCH OUT FOR THOSE SATANIC cause of you, I know that someday I canfrom New Orleans to South Bend (or the £1791 I have such great friends as you. HaveBEEPING CONSTRUCTION TRUCKS, look back at my Junior year fondly. Iarea) in the beginning of June. II you are 
JERSEY BOUND??? NEED RIDE TO a great summer. I love you guys. Brigitta. 
YOU BEAKER. trS A WILD WORLD realize it hasn't always been easy to begoing home after school and coming back CENTRAL JERSEY FOR THE SUM­
APARTMENT FOR RENT OUT THERE. DON'T LET THOSE my friend...a dozen roses to you alii I
for summer school or would be interested MER. WILL SHARE ALL EXPENSES.
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED
in driving the car back for me, please call BOHEMIAN GRANOLA-TOTERS GET love you and will miss you dearly over 
HELP!! PLEASE CALL SUE AT £4041.
CHICAGOOAK PARK the summer. Mic
TO YOU.

Kevin Becker at 239-7471 at The Ob­T-Have a great summer.Hope everything call 239-n12 SUMMER ONLY
aerver or 3482 at home. St. Jude, help me remember. works out the way you want it to. I'll visit
Jack and Jill went up the hill to fetch a Only TEN weeks and counting until you you whether you're on 2s or at ND.Brigitta
pail of water. Jack fell down and broke come toG-BURY. Then you're in trouble. 
-A Friend in Need

FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED his Crown Royal, and now Jill is dating Ready AaaaTACK!!! CHICAGOOAK PARK some guy from L.A. SUMMER 
GRADUATION TICKETS
CALL 239-n12 
for sale D.J. DOYLE. WHAT AINI YOU GOT? 
MARIA C. DOTI, CONGRATULATIONS Call Artie at 1787 ... YOU AIN'T GOT NO YAM. BRIAN 
on accepting a year of torture. By theSouth Bend: "It's a town for losers. I'm PIERRET, GEE, HOW'S CATHY? 

way. what is a UHAH?

pullin' out a here to win!" Bruce
I LOST/FOUND 
MINNEAPOLIS BOUND?!--on Fri., 5-9 or SHOW SOME YAM WILL YA.
Springsteen, "Thunder Road"
Sat., 51'10--DESPERATELY seeking ride HELP WANTED!! Year around. part-time. SIGNED, THE YAMFUL--MIKE HELP!!! I LOST MY WALLET AT SMC for me and an overnight bag--Call Apply at PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 KUROWSKI
Let the record snow: 2 people applied
THURSDAY NIGHT DURING THE MR. BRIDGET x3352 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN For Sale: Brand New Brother CE-222 
for the Editor in Chief position at the Ob­
CAMPUS COMPETITION. I THINK IT Self-Correcting Typewriter. Call 284·
7 days a week: 10-530 server this year. 8 people applied for the 
WAS LOST IN THE MENS RESTROOM Whoever offered me a ride to N.C.--IIc.st "If you're gonna go. go! Wait. 4082
Quote of the Day position. Now doesn't 
IN ANGELA. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE your number. John 3362 FREE BEER! FREE BEER! FREE STOP, STOP!!!!" CRASH "'h,s---" Bus-1,
that tell you something!!!
CONTACT ME (154 DILLON OR £4783). BEER I Van-0. Love Calvin Sparks. (Thought YOU CAN HAVE THE MONEY AS A Really, I need a ride to Midway Airport you'd get away without one didn't you female roommate needed-LA area
REWARD. RON FLYNN in Chicago on Tuesday, May 12. Call GLAVIN!) 
Bridget £281 0

Andrew at 1532. I WANT MY JEAN JACKET!!!!! IF YOU 
FOR SALE Kim & Noel --There is no one else I'd "MISTAKENLY" TOOK IT FRIDAY rather party with than you two party ATIENTION WOMEN OF NOTRE Help! I need ride to Mpls-Leav1ng alter
NIGHT. I'D APPRECIATE IT IF YOU'D Our Sloth, animals. Love, The drinking god? P.S. 
DAME What are you going to do when May 9. Call LeeAnn 284-5439Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44
RETURN IT (AS WELL AS MY 101). I know you have my Advocate. Come The liver has never felt better! 
they even the ratio around here and you
PLEASE HAVE A HEART AND GIVE IT through the U.S. Government? Get the me.
over tonight and give IT to I'll be have to start acting like real women?
BACK----NO HARD facts today! Call1-312-742-1142
FEELINGS. waiting, cutie. BB-SO GORGEOUS and VERY SPE· MONICA £1337 EK!. 7316 Love Mr. Leather CIALI Thanks for giving me the chance 
Mary Alice...P.J.'s May 18. Pitchers on £££££££££££££££££££££££££££££££££(to feef!An-tostal,snuggle­
me. ATTENTIONII TO ALL MY FRIENDS AT lost... a gold loop earring somewhere near wombats.knock-knock-guess who? nice SMCII
FOR SALE:1978 VW RABBIT,GOOD
Sarin, Lewis and Stepan Courts on CONDITION,$1 ,200,239-5693. LAST MINUTE FRENCH TUTORING couch, Laf.clst!zipbang!Best of lu~k in all ANDY "LOADER" CARR WAS OVER· Junior year is a finals week away, and Friday. Sentimental Value If found, call QUALIFIED FOR UMOC before we know it, the S times we've
BEFORE FINALS. CALL PIERRE AT you do-l will miss you very much!! x2297. Reward. Love,lb-pup.
239-5414 OR 277-2282 
shared will come to an end. Thanks for

FOR SALE DODGE CHALLENGER 
the joys, the pains, the laughter and the 

LOADED,SPORTY $1100 283­
...............................
To the person who took my denim jacket tears. Your CONSTANT FRIENDSHIP 
on Thurs night Cleveland and 3883,NICK Three hotel rooms at the Holiday Inn. GOOD LUCK ON THE CPA MAUREEN has made lite bearable. REMEMBER; A 
at Hol­ERNY!! I'M THINKING OF YOU! GOPlease call if wanted: 263-1546

lyhock, thank you for returning my I.D. friend Ia always at home In our heerta.
Laura, Kelly, and Becky, Thanks for going GET EM!
but I would appreciate getting my jacket through with me year: I extend to you a WELCOME to last a
MOVING OFF CAMPUS? it all this the
"Now before then
back. No questions will be asked. Please we end and begin, lifetime!!
NEED FURNITURE? We'll drink a toast to how's it's been. A ceremonial burning, elevator rides, To the cute girl I saw taking off her bat­
call me at 4553 Best wishes for a long, relaxing summer! 
CALL PERRY 272-2252 few more hours to be complete, A few poultry paranoia, Feb. 8. calls to N. hing suit by the lake· Will you be there 
Next year we begin anew. (I smell a 4.0!!) 

MUST SELL ALL FURNITURE 
more nights on satin sheets, A few more Carolina, disappearing photographs, and again on Wednesday like last week, or Cleo for now...
LOST: CHROME DIGITAL WATCH BEFORE GOING BACK TO CANADA times that I can say, I've loved these reappearing persons. Here's to the hugs, will I have to wait until next year to see somewhere on campus. This watch was days." the tears, and the punches, and to three you again? Give me a call at 3500. 
a graduation gift from my parents. so it Billy Joel 
of the classiest. warmest people I know. has considerable sentimental value. If BIKE AND CAR RACK FOR SALE, CALL "I've loved these days" Let's do it again sometime. Love, Steph you find it please let me know. The watch 
FRANK-3043, $50 OR BEST OFFER 
Tracy Lowery in LEGS-She's Got Them Marla '81 MAZDA RX7, 5-spd., excellent con· Playing now in your DOME (26). ££££££££££££££££££££££££££££~ 
has the name "Jesse" engraved on the HOWARD MEN, 
back, and the initials "BCHS. • Call jesse JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: Remember hat and lie, tailgaters, Fr. dition. 49,000 miles. Air, AM!FM stereo,
at x2055. HAND IN YOUR PROFILE FORM TO Gene, 
new tires. brakes & clutch, 1 -owner. as· TO SHANNON REIDY, A GIRL WHO IS
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SEA­SYRs, Formals, shorts and shades ... 
king $5,500. 2n-2365 Bob. A LEGEND TO BE REMEMBERED...
LOST Women's Gold Seiko Quartz VICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS Remember all the parties, new friends YOUR "AOOMATES" WILL LOVE YOU 
Watch on Saturday Near the Mudpits. if THIS SPRING. LET US HELP YOU GET THROUGH and old, but most of all. .. 
FOREVER!IIIIIII

Found Please Call 283-2112. FINALS WEEK! THE COUNTRY Remember the TRUE HOWARD HALL, HARVESTER ..... PLENTY OF SNACKS now and always. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TO MUNCH ON FOR THOSE LATE We'll miss you!
LOST:A PAIR OF RAYBANS AT OR 
HAND IN YOUR PROFILE FORM TO NIGHT CRAM SESSIONS. SPECIAL· Luv (especially to 4N)NEAR BADIN HALL ON SATUR· Californian selling authentic 'beach This could be a ...MIMI,-Here's-Your­CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­DRIED PAPAYA-TO HELP ALLEVIATE Nora and MaureenDAY,APRIL 25.-$20 REWARD. CALL cruiser" bike:$50 or best offer Also selling Personal-Add, but I love you too much.
VICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS STOMACH STRESS. OPEN 11 :30-6:00
GREG AT £3170 "huge• electric fan:$25 or best Offer. Call Have a nice Florida and live life to the
THIS SPRING. M-F & 12-5 SAT.
283-2542. 
fullest, just stay alive, huh? Can I go to REWARD REWARD REWARD Fitzwilly's with you sometime?

LOOKING FOR THE PERFECT GIFTREWARD REWARD IF YOU FOUND A Commodore 64 For Sale Call John at 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: FOR MOM? COME ON OVER TO THE
MEN'S GOLD COLORED SEIKO 1158 
To the Spikowski clan and the losere we WATCH AT ST.MARY'S ON LK
HAND IN YOUR PROFILE FORM TO COUNTRY HARVESTER! WE OFFER 
hang around...

CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­A LARGE SELECTION OF GIFTS AND
THURSDAY PLEASE CALL DAVE AT DO YOU NEED FURNITURE FOR AN I've had a great time these last lew I'm so gled we've had this time together,
VICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS HANDMADE ITEMS..... DRIED
4221. YOU WILL RECEIVE A MONE­OFF-CAMPUS APARTMENT? NEED weeks. Hope you have a great summer just to have or sing
THIS SPRING. FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS, UNIQUE a laugh a song.
TARY REWARD. TO SELL CHAIRS, LAMPS, BED AND and I look forward to seeing you next Seems like we just get started and before BASKETS AND WALL HANGINGS. WE
DESK. GREAT DEAL...HELP ME UN­September. dg 
you know it. comes the time we have toARE LOCATED IN LAFORTUNE BASE·LOAD MY APARTMENT!! CALL JOE AT JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: say so long!!! Have a random summer:

MENT.

LOST: SILVER DIAMOND CUT 2n-7209 HAND IN YOUR PROFILE FORM TO Colleen, Betty, Mimi, Janel, Red, Lisa,BANGL.&SRACELET 
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­RIDERS NEEDED So.W. Ct. NYC Area. 
Val, Stan, Donna and Ellen. The LaudsIF FOUND PLEASE CALL NOELLA AT 

VICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS Ar.ER GRADUATION Sun 5-"17 or Mon will Live forever!!!
3183, OR CONTACT AT 411 LEWIS THIS SPRING. 5'18 Kevin 3686 call late and keep trying I'D BE INDEBTED TO YOU! at rJny time.
FOR SALE PLANE TICKET to Portland, OR CHEAPIII Dan £2009 
SHEBA-0, i'm gonna miss ya alot... i'll COLLEEN "SMELLY" FOY definitely see you in Pittsburgh in July CPA Candidate LEAOUX-Well, my love. FOR SALE -1975 PLYMOUTH FURY ••JAMES" da-na-na-na-na-na-na-na
FOUND: Men's CASIO watch in grass I know I promised you a dirty personal, though ... GOOD LUCK! Champagne, the lover, between BP and "CLARK PEACE WAR 89,000 Ml, $700 283·3130 YOU SAY ITS VA BIRTHDAY!!! Happy
but you expected something sexy! and I will be here to greet you on Fri. 
•••••••••• uooooooo ............................................. 
birthday a little bit early from your favorite 

MEMORIAL" Call Jackie at 3194 to claim ' Love. your canoeing partner E~zabeth and Cindy Always remember Soon we can frolic about Randall in utter LOFT FOR SALE: LOFT FOR SALE; "The road to a friend's house is never bliss! -KT SMC chicks; gotta love it!l!ll LOFT FOR SALE; ROOM 325 LE MANS. 
NEED FURNITURE?? MUST SELL long" -Thanks for being the best of SENIOR SELLOUT. LOFT (BEAUTY) • I'm so glad we had this time together.'
DESK, BED, LAMPS, TABLES AND friends! Love, Antonia JEFFREY D. TERRELL--we're gonna
AND FRIG. LETS NEGOTIATE. CALL A happy summer to all my fantastic
CHAIRS! LETS HELP EACH OTHER miss our late night Tac:o Belt runs and
FOR RENT GERTIE • 5125. friends at ND-SMC; I'H miss you
OUT, CALL JOE AT 2n-7209 our "intellectual" conversations. Love. 
guys!!!'"sniff"" Love Kimbo

Noel and Kim HEY CAPP MAJORS Going to Washington for the summer? If
6 bedroom 4-6 students ~ & 
THE FINAL CAPP.OPMA you're a non-smoking female who needs 
utilities. Security system 234 6688 
MEETING OF THE YEAR housing and is interested in a Geor­TUES. MAY 5th getown apartment from May 30-August :i~~;·v;;;;:·t;;;;~-~-~-.-~~~;y·~-~ LIZ: We aa want to be just ~ke you some AT 5:30 PM IN THE 15, costing $954, payment due immedi­awaited personal. I Just want to say Thank day. Apt. for rent this summer ANNAPOLIS ROOM ON THE FIRST ately, pleBS~~ call Beth at x2900. You for this year and for your love. You
TICKETS 
can Heidi 233-4176 FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE are of the "finer th1nga." Love, Terry LAST PERSONAL OF YOUR COLLEGE INFORMAL GATHERING Hey roomie-l'm going to miss talking CAREER MARK SKOLNICK!, SO LOOK 
NEED 1-2 GRADUATION TIX. PLEASE FEATURING PIZZA. AND SUBS. about "no more men." and the bald man, ROB HENNIG-I told you I'd return your HARD (YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN). 3 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT CALL HELEN £288-8157 QUESTIONS CALL DAN AT 288-5599 and everything else. Thank God we gal note -so much for the impossible... END IT WITH A SMILE, I ALWAYS SAY. AVAILABLE 87-88 SCHOOL YEAR 10 ALL CAPP MAJORS ARE INVITED each other as roommates this semester, maybe I'M even get over to say hi... naaah LOVE YOU, MOOSE. GOOSE (AND 
Minutes from campus 233-6298 Arly Extra Graduation Tickets Call -4421 I know no one else would understand -??? ISNI SHE SILLY?) 
The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987 -page 15 
NL roundup 
Reds beat Phils as Davis' homer barrage continues 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Eric Davis hit three home runs, in­cluding a grand slam, and drove in six runs Sunday, powering the Cincinnati Reds over the Philadelphia Phillies 9-6. 
Davis, leading the major leagues with 12 homers, went 4-for-5 and scored four runs. 
Bill Gullickson, 4-1, who also homered, allowed six runs on nine hits in 5 2-3 innings. John Franco pitched the ninth for his fourth save. 
Davis singled, stole second and scored on Bo Diaz's single in the first. 
The Reds hit three home runs in the third, knocking out Phillies starter Kevin Gross, 0­
4. Gullickson and Kal Daniels had back-to-hack homers and Davis homered two outs later. 
Cubs 4, Padres 2 
CHICAGO -Andre Dawson hit a homer, double and single Sunday and Leon Durham had two runs batted in to lead the Chicago Cubs to 4-2 victory over the San Diego Padres. 
Rick Sutcliffe, 4-2, retired the first 12 batters before giving up two singles in the fifth. He gave up seven hits, striking out seven, in 8 1-3 innings. Lee Smith got the last two outs for his eighth save. 
Andy Hawkins, 0-3, took the loss. 
Dawson's seventh-inning solo shot gave Chicago a 4-1 lead. 
The Cubs scored in the first when leadoff batter Chico Walker singled, moved to 

· 
Shipping Let us pack and ship your electronic equipment, 
stereo, etc. direct to your
. "~ow~ ~ott a~~ occm~totm." 
home by UPS-Emery.
Comein and Browse 
219-277-7616
327 Lincolnway 
232-3354 

Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fri 
University Commons SR
MISSING!! 
Western Union 

___A~ajla_2!~ _ _ 
The large bannerbelonging to the Notre Dame chapter of PHI BETA 1\APPA has been taken {rom the LibraryAuditorium Lounge. 


This banner is needed for initiation ceremonies on Commencement weekend. The return of this irreplaceable item will be greatly appreciated. 
second on an out and came home on Durham's double. In the third, Walker doubled, Dawson singled and Durham followed with an RBI single. 
Expos 2, Mets 0 
NEW YORK -Tim Raines homered for the second straight game and three Montreal pitchers scattered nine hits Sunday as the Expos beat the New York Mets 2-0. 
Raines, who went 4-for-5 with a game-winning grand slam Saturday, had one hit in four at-bats in his second game since re-signing with Montreal. 
Bob McClure, who relieved Montreal starter Floyd Youmans in the fifth, picked up the win to even his record at 1-1. McClure allowed two hits, struck out one and walked one in 2 2-3 innings. Tim Burke al­lowed two hits over the final 2 1-3 innings to pick up the save. 

Braves 5, Astros 3 
ATLANTA -Ken Oberkfell and Ken Griffey drove in two runs apiece Sunday to lead the Atlanta Braves 5-3 over the Houston Astros. 
Left-bander Zane Smith, 3-1, allowed seven hits in 7 1-3 in­nings for the victory, while Jeff Dedmon got the final five outs for his first save. 
Mike Scott, 3-2, absorbed the loss for the Astros, giving up six hits in five innings while striking out one and walking three. 
_....._ ..---,.,.1~. 

EDUCATIONAL = 
I 
1 
,......_._ 
r--~IL--,_ 
1 

m~~--M-E~D-IA----~-~~~ 
1

Quality 35mm Slide 
I

~mh 
Up to 20 Dupes of one Slide@ 50c ea. ( Color Correction and Discounts on larger quantities also available ) Contact Christopher in Rm. 13 CCE 239-5465 


-ca CD 
CD

> 0 
YOU DESERVE 
, .... 
0 S»-·
~ 
:::s

0-...
From your 
tn

"C... college grad (I)ca specialist S»
:l ­
S»

CJ :::s
... 
0

~ (,) Greg Kantauskas Dan Meachum 
1\) CU For this special GMAC financing, all you need is your diploma or letter of graduation, 0 LL proof of a job, a low down payment, and the ability to meet monthly payments. 0 W Bring this ad and get $400 off the purchase price, or a 90-day deferral on your payments, -< W as a graduation present from GMAC and Rafferty's. S» 
c

a: 
(Eligible 6 months before gradua tlon.) CD
u. 
RAFfERTt•s 
PONTIAC • BUICK • GMC • CHRYSLER • PLYMOUTH • DODGE 616-683-3920 616·684-8200 
1102 S. 11th St., {U.S. 31·33 N.), Niles, Ml 
..______With purchase of Rust Proofing -------• 
Unemployed Seniors 
Help yourself as well as others by teaching English in Puerto Rico for one year. 
Benefits include -Paid transportation to 
and from location. -Room, board, and insurance. -Monthly stipend of $150. -2 and 112 weeks of 
vacation. 

No experience or teaching certificate necessary but training provided. 
More information available at the Center for Social Concerns . 
1 
I 
~ 
! 
l~ 

I ' I , ' ' 
Puckett's 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS Kirby Puckett hit a solo home run in the eighth inning Sunday, giving the Minnesota Twins a 4-3 victory over the New Yankees. 
Puckett connected on the first pitch from Tim Stoddard for his seventh homer of the season. The Twins hit four solo home runs Sunday and had eight while winning two of three games against the Yankees. 
Stoddard, 0-1, relieved starter Dennis Rasmussen after Tom Brunansky's game­tying homer in the sixth. 
Mariners 7, Brewers 3 
SEATTLE -Mike Morgan won his second consecutive start since returning from the bullpen, giving the Seattle Mariners a 7-3 victory over the 
Happy 


\ 
I I I 
H 
\ 

!I l. 
I ·: 
j'  I !  
'  i  
.  
'  


' ! 
The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987 -page 16 
homer knocks off Yanks; Brewers lose 4th 
Milwaukee Brewers Sunday. 
Morgan, 2-3, was shelled in his first three starts of the year and sent to the bullpen. He talked Mariners Manager Dick Williams into putting him back in the starting rotation and responded by going the dis­tance, allowing eight hits. Mor­gan struck out three and walked two. 
Angels 11, Red Sox 4 
ANAHEIM-Doug DeCinces hit a grand slam and John Can­delaria improved his record to 4-0 Sunday as the California An­gels defeated the Boston Red Sox 11-4. 
DeCinces' third homer of the season highlighted a six-run, sixth-inning outburst as the An­gels pulled out to an 11-1 lead. It was DeCinces' sixth career grand slam and his first since he was with the Baltimore Orioles in 1981. 
Birthday, 
Athletics 2, Tigers 0 
OAKLAND -Eric Plunk held Detroit to six hits for 8 1-3 in­nings and Mike Gallego got his second game-winning RBI in two days as the Oakland Ath­letics blanked the Detroit Tigers 2-0 Sunday. 
Gallego broke up the score­less duel between Plunk, 1-1, and the Tigers' Eric King, 2-2, on an RBI grounder ·in the seventh. Jose Canseco hit his second homer of the season in the eighth off reliever Mark Thurmond. 
Royals 2, Indians 1 
KANSAS CITY-Danny Jack­son pitched a four-hitter, out­dueling Ken Schrom and 
Pari Timt• 

leading the Kansas City Roy at::. to a mistake-filled 2-1 victory Sunday over the Cleveland In­dians. 
Jackson, 1-4, held Cleveland hitless until Carmen Castillo doubled in the fifth. He struck out seven and walked four. Schrom, 1-3, was the loser. 
The Royals scored their first run with the help of a two-base error and a balk. 
White Sox 4, Orioles 3 
BALTIMORE -Donnie Hill singled home the tie-breaker in the eighth Sunday and gave the Chicago White Sox a 4-3 victory over the Baltimore Orioles. 
Chicago swept the three­
game timore loss.  series to its  and fourth  sent str Bal­aight  
'  

STRETCHING 

YOUR DOLLARS? 
We know how tough it can be...tuition, textbooks, rent...not to mention the price of a movie ticket... 
The Signature Group's part time telemarketing 
positions are an ideal way to help make ends meet. 
We provide paid training to part time and full time 
students who have good customer relations skills and 
would like to learn to call our customers across the 
country to explain the products and services we 
provide. NO COLD CALLS! 
e EARN $4.50 PER HOUR GUARANTEED! 
• 
CONVENIENT MARIETTA STREET LOCATION! 

• 
ENJOY EMPLOYEE MERCHANDISE DISCOUNTS AT MONTGOMERY WARD! 


The Signature Group can help you stretch your dollars. Call for an interview appointment today! EOE 

SIGNATURE 
GROUP 
236-4206 
~ Attention: ~ 
• •• · Clubs and Organizations : • 
•
• Hall President's Council : •
• • Student Gover~.W~rftnt Activities Board ~ 
• 
: Today, Monday, May 4, is the last day : : to request funds from your 198&87 Student ••
•
: Activity Fee Budget. Absolutely no exceptions •
•
: will be made as the Treasurer's Office is • : closing today due to final exams. Checks may : : be requested until 4:00 pm in the Treasurer's : : Office on the second floor of LaFortune. : 
Blue Jays 3, Rangers 1 
TORONTO -Jim Clancy pitched two-hit ball for 8 1-3 in­nings Sunday and the Toronto Blue Jays extended their win­ning streak to six games by beating the Texas Rangers 3-1. 
Clancy, 3-2, struck out seven and walked two. He allowed a fifth-inning single to Pete O'Brien and departed in the ninth with a 3-0 lead after Geno Petralli doubled and Jerry Browne drew a one-out walk. 
Anti-VIolence Activist 
Cent111 lor Teechlng Non-Violence & NCTV fUII·liiM ataff. Lodgl119 & MOOQiyr. ReeMrcll on aogreM~on. dearlnohouM, publllhlno & lobbying apiMt wtolence Including TV, ftlm, Will toya,apotta,.-otlca. Next to U IHinola. Student lolllla .......217-384-1120. P.O. Boa 2157, Ch8mpatgn IL 11120 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy Hfe at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we offer you a special discount. 
New apartments being built through Spring '87 
-
-Pool, Clubhouse, Community Activities 
II 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
Intercom entrances 
-
Reasonably priced 
-
gas/heat 
-Earthtone Interiors 
II 
Country Kitchens 
•call for details about your discount 
277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 


Meleah! 

This comes a little early~ but we wanted to publish a picture of you. Con­grats on finishing this year~ now do the others up right. 
Love, Mom, Dad, Buck, Mark & Je 


................................................................................................................................ 
____________.._________
~-----~--~--------------~~-­
The Ohserver Monday, May 4, 1987-page 17 
Sports Briefs _ 
0-C Crime defeated Keenan, 4-3, to win the Interhall Lacrosse Championship. -The Observer 
The ND golf team placed seventh out of 10 teams at the Spartan Invitational. The Irish shot a 945. Low scores for the Irish were registered by Doug Giorgio (228), and John Connelly (237). Michigan State won the Invitational with a score of 886. -The Observer 
The Detroit Red Wings defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs, 3-0, to win their seven-game series, 4-3. ­
Associated Press 
Paul Azinger scored a one-stroke victory over Hal Sutton in the Las Vegas Invitational. -Associated Press 
The Senior Hangover 5K run ended in a tie between Eric Pritchord and David Thorsett at 19:59. Mike Muyres was next at 21:42, followed by Diane Crancro at 21:53, Frank Bemis at 23:06, Paul Smith at 23: 15 and Christie Raleigh at 24:26. -The Observer 

a...-. 
H 8 Oof 

The Observer 
ND lacrosse team ends with win 
as O'Neill 
By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 
They saved their best for last. 
Co-Captain Dave O'Neill and the rest of the Notre Dame lacrosse team closed out their season in style Saturday by beating Ohio State 16-11 in Co­lumbus. The Irish finished their season 6-5 overall, and 3-1 in the Great Lakes Conference, good enough for second place. 
O'Neill, playing in his last game for the Irish, scored four goals and had one assist, making it the highest scoring game of his career. 
"Dave just played a super game," said Irish head coach Rich O'Leary. "It was a really nice way to finish, both for the 
forgot, but somebody remembered! David Brown was 21 last Monday!! Call him today & send MONEY!! 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ i was just an ordinary day f) : 
ATTENTION GRADUATES 
NEED A NEW CAR? 
GMAC College Graduate Finance Plan has your answer! 
Buy the car of your choice with no credit necessary 
-verifiable commi1ment for employment 
-90 days until first payment 
YOU WON'T 
FIND A BmER 
BUY ••• 
ANYWHERE! 
saves best 
seniors, and for the players who will return next year." 
The Irish got off to their usual slow start, and trailed the Buckeyes by two goals for the majority of the first half. The third quarter once again told the story, but this time it had a happy ending for the Irish. 
"I think we wore them down, especially later in the game," noted O'Leary. "Our kids worked very, very hard, and we played an excellent second half. The key was probably the aggressiveness of our midfielders.'' 
O'Leary also praised the play of his trio of senior defen­semen, Wally Stack, Jim Fallon and Dick Milone. 
''They took Ohio State out of the game," he said. "The way they played was typical of their careers here. They earned a victory, and they deserve it." 
The Irish took advantage of some Ohio State mistakes in the fourth quarter to assure the outcome. The Buckeyes forced 

for last 
the action, but Notre Dame, led 
bv its seniors, refused to fold. 
John Olmstead scored three goals for the Irish, and Tom Lanahan and Jim Shields added two apiece. John McLachlan, playing with a separated shoulder, notched five assists. 
IRISH ITEMS-Four awards were handed out at the Notre Dame lacrosse banquet Sun­day night. The team voted John McLachlan, the leading scorer for the Irish, the Most Valuable Player for the 1987 season. Freshman goaltender Jeff Glazier, forced to assume full­time duty in net, was acknowl­edged as the Most Improved Player. The Spirit Award was presented to senior co-captain Wally Stack, who can put the trophy on his mantle right next to the Ugly Man On Campus Award. 
The final presentation was the Dedication Award, won by the other senior co-captain, Dave O'Neill. 

i until you were born
I• 
and made it a 
:,.:~e, Holiday! ..~*~vet.. 
l<7~4e~ ';\~~~ • 
~.......................~ 

~~~····················~~<>1 
• ~q; ~q, May 11 ~eh ~e~ : 
: ~ .~ ' ''6~ :
• <t' 

The Observer Monday, May 4, 1987-page 18 
also at Indianapolis, the javelin 
I ,, 
pick up the tab whenever possible.
crew took second through fifth 

I ~ 
places. Sophomore John Eus­
\ 
terman led the Irish with a
I 
Ifyou're like most college students in the western hemisphere, 
\ 
throw of 168-5, followed by 
you try to make your money go a long way. That's why you should
senior Steve Demartino, soph­
know that.AT&r Long Distance Seryice is the right choice f.or you.
omore Mike Napier and sopho­more Chuck Curley. 
*"AT&r offers so many teiTific values. For example, you
Junior Rick Meunch won the 

can save over 50% off AT&r's day rate on calls during 
long jump with 22-9 314, but was 

A' weekends until5 pm Sunday, and from 11 pm
unable to compete in the triple 
~.11( r~ \to 8 am, Sunday through Friday. 
jump due to a heel bruise. But 
. ~ • Call between 5 pm and 11 pm,
senior Joel Autry filled the va­cancy, winning the triple jump 
~ Sunda,y through Frida,y, and you'll save 38% with 46-8114. Autry also finished 
'fJ? . off our day rate. third in the long jump. 
Ever dial a wrong number? AT&r gives you
Junior Tom Mick won the 


QUESTION #2. 
. immediate credit if you do. And of course, you can count on
hammer throw in a non-scoring 
AT&r for clear long distance connections any place you call.
event, and junior Tim Smith placed second in the discus. 
To find out more about how AT&r can helP. save you mon~ give us a call. With a little luck, you won't have to hang arounWith 
At the National Invitational, 

the rich kids. Call toll-free todlzy, a~ 2~~
Driscoll qualified for the IC4A's in the javelin with a toss of 201-0, but senior Robert 
?At~ 
Nobles and freshman Mike O'Connor both failed to qualify in the 800 and 1500-meter runs, respectively.
{ 

\
Watson recorded a time of

( I 
14.20 in the 110-meter high
1 
hurdles.
J 
ATs.T

The Irish are off until May 15 when they travel to Naperville, 
The right choice. 
Ill., for the North Central Invi­tational. Piane will have only 15 team members left for this 
~ 1986AT&T 

' \ m~~t1·~ ......_... 11 .... -~ ...... ._ .. ";. \ \ : ~ •• r;-,r-rl-~r-.'"T'T~';"'""'~"T."'':~-:-M,...,..,-r.;-:~r.n~7-:P.~r:r.ill~:r:;':T.r.TT.Ir.i'7:Jd.:;:T"'r:r;;,.........:rr:o:T"';"'T"ll"'i"":''TT"T"J""li'T"l'-r"'l!'-,..,...-.~-:-;r,~~~~ a.
I ,. 
i )
) . 
·, ( 
u 
~·· Erving's career ends with loss 

l a~~====================~~
Associated Press In other games Sunday, was a crushing moment when 
SUMMER IN CHICAGO AT liT
Golden State won its first­we lost. Losses always hurt." Thanks largely to Craig round Western Conference se­Jack Sikma led the Bucks 
FOR 131 WAYS TO:
Hodges, Sunday was the last ries by beating Utah 118-113 in with 18 points and 21 rebounds,day of the Philadelphia 76ers' Game 5 and Detroit beat At­John Lucas added 17 points, 
~ Get a head start 
l 
season and the final game of lanta 112-111 in the opening .Paul Pressey 15 and SidneyJulius Erving's career. game of an Eastern Conference Moncrief 14. 
~ Fill prerequisites
The Milwaukee guard scored semifinal series. Milwaukee played the second 
all14 of his points in the fourth Golden State opens its con­half without Coach Don Nelson, 
Make up a course
~ 

ll 
quarter, including six on a pair ference semifinal series who was ejected in the second of 3-point baskets, to lead the against the Los Angeles Lakers quarter after receiving two 
Speed up graduation
~ 

Bucks to a 102-89 victory over Tuesday night at Inglewood, technical fouls for arguing with the 76ers in the deciding fifth Calif. . referee Earl Strom. 
• 131 undergraduate or graduate courses to
game of an opening-round NBA Erving scored 24 points in the 
choose from

eastern Conference playoff se­final game of his 16-season pro­ries. fessional career. He was given 
• 8 week summer session-June 15 to August 8
Fallon 

"We love Dr. J," Hodges a rousing ovation by Mil­
• Day and evening classes
continued from page 20
said. "But today, we had to put waukee fans when he left the 
• Convenient locations-Main Campus, liT West
him away." game with 40 seconds remain­tories in tennis and 69 in wres­
and Extension Centers
Milwaukee advanced to the ing. tling over his 34-year career. 
• Ample FREE parking
conference semifinals against ''I was thinking about my In Fallon's third year at the defending champion Boston teammates, my family, the Notre Dame, his team went 14-0 
You can register by mail.
Celtics. The best-of-seven se­fans, a sigh of relief," Erving to earn a share of the NCAA ries opens Tuesday night at said. ''I wish in my heart I title with Tulane. 
FOR INFORMATION CALL TOLL FREE:
Boston.· could be happy even though it The 24 wins by this year's youthful squad mark the lOth 
Outside Illinois 1-800-448-2329 
"We'll use it to let the guys time Fallon's teams have 
Ask for: Mary Edwards
who have qualified for IC4A's earned over twenty victories
Gordon· 
··­

to get a meet in, and to try to since schedules were 
-ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
continued from page 20 qualify a couple others," said lengthened in 1971. 
3300 South Federal Street 
Ill

Piane. Fallon will travel with the 
Chicago, Illinois 60616 
Jamaica, came to Notre Dame The IC4A's will be run the fol­Irish to Rutgers to defend the with impressive stats, but up lowing weekend at Villanova, team's 1986 Eastern Collegiate to this meet he has not per­Pa. Championship title May 15-16. formed well. "Maybe he's fi­nally coming around," said 

Piane. ·· But with sophomore David 
I 
Warth being held out, the 1600­meter relay team of McGuire, Searcy, Gordon and freshman John Whelan was not as suc­cessful, finishing third with a 

CAN THE BUDGR-mNSCIOUS 
time of 3:21.4 
I 
With freshman Glenn Watson at the National Invitational at 
mLLEGE STUDENT SAVE MONEY?
Indianapolis, freshman Jim Varga won the 110-meter high 
~ 
,\ 
hurdles with a time of 15.0. 
a) Save oYer 50% oH AT&T's weekday Nles on
Second-place finishes were re­
out-of-state calls during nights and weekends.
corded by sophomore David Warth in the 400-meter inter­mediate hurdles and by junior 
b) Don't buy textbooks when "Monarch Notes" will do
\ 
John Dadomio in the 800-meter 
''I 
iustfine. 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I I 
I run. I In the field events, junior Chris Matteo set a meet record 
c) Save 38% oHAT&T's weekday rale on out-of-stale
in the pole vault, easily winning 
~ 
calls during evenings.
with a mark of 15-4. 
) "Chris has been less than 
d) Count on AT&T for exceptional value and high quality 
I' sterling this year, but that is his highest vault this year," 
•
servtce.

' said Piane. "It is a big 
. 
breakthrough for him.'' 
' 
With junior Brian Driscoll 

e) Hang around with the richest kids in school; letthem
. 
1[()({Cl~---------------------------M-ond-ay,_Ma-y4,_198-7--pag-e19 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
9/U.. WK!Te5 f.fm-1 /..11. 1HIITf£'5 Qf//Cki..YKm:HffK:J -n£ (jfm( t.IMIT5 OF~{. 5TMVOM ... \  511Y5 H/5@{Wl/!?llG£ 15 Nfl.l/ IJLM05T 1Hc 5/ZEOF 6/l/J/~ Mf/I<PHY'5. \  


Beer Nuts 

Far Side Gary Larson 
~-~"""!!!1111 

Dizzy Gillespie's seventh birthday party 
Mark Williams 
The Daily Cros~ord 
38 "Le-du 
Printempa" 39 Perrot fieh 41 Forest 
denizens 
43 Korea'• 
~1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
Syngrnan-
All Rights Reserved 

44 Refuge 
LIISI'l 
46 Old hat 48 Terminate 6 Long, long 49 "-Dallas" time 51 AmuH8 7 Superman'• 53 Honshu city girl 55 Brooch 8-drop of a 56 Hit hard hat 58 Certain entree 9 Narrow valleys 64 Smart-1 0 Hole-in-one 66 Wood strip 11 Locomotive 67 Sport leader 68 Goddesses of 12 Vicinity 
the seaeons 13 Sole 69-Domini 21 "Thie one's -" 70 Marcel 22 Literary 
Marceau e.g. anecdotes 71 Bring forth 26 Ananias 72 Be the leader 27 Single 73 "When I performances 
was-... " 28 European 29 Oater 42 Carelese 59 Wind indicator 
DOWN 30 Turncoats 45 Slow up 60 Volcano of 1 Idol 32 "-we all?" 47 Pernicious Sicily 2 Verve 33 Beginnings 50 Alias letters 61 Colo. ski 3 Rickey 36 Make lace 52 Puzzle resort • 
ingredient 37 Mild oath 54 Deily 62 Madame Bovary 4 Golf club 40 Certain 56 Cheers 63 Donna or Rex 5 Belgian city paintings 57 Cockeyed 65 Crow call 




would like to wish everyone the best of luck on finals. Have a super summer and we'll see you next year! 



,;.. ri
I •~ I !~
I :.
I ! , 
' '' 
' ' 
Monday, May 4, 1987-page 20
S~orts 
ND dominates Invite as 'strugglers' shine 
By PETE GEGEN season. Kraus' toss of 53-2 V4, Assistant Sports Editor which easily set a new meet record, outdistanced 
Despite the absence of five Nowakoski's by five inches. team members, the Irish track Freshman Yan Searcy, squad won 11 out of 19 events junior Dan Garrett and junior to take the sixth-annual Mid­Rick Mulvey all continued their west Catholic Invitational. consistent running. Searcy 
Notre Dame ran away with took the 400-meter dash with a the title, scoring 133 points. time of 48.6, Garrett won the Second-place Marquette to­1500-meter run with a time of taled 60 112, followed by DePaul 3:54.97, and Rick Mulvey out­
While the team competition 9:18.47, missing the IC4A qual­may not have been that excit­ifying time by less than six ing, the meet featured impres­seconds. Freshman Tom sive performances by several O'Rourke and junior Mike members who have been strug­Burns placed second and third gling this season. respectively behind Mulvey. 
Junior Tony Ragunas, who Notre Dame's 400-meter has been bothered by a bad relay again qualified for the hamstring since the indoor IC4A's with a time of 42.47. The season, won both the 100 and combination this time for the 200-meter dashes, While the Irish featured Ragunas, times of 10.6 and 21.8 do not ap­Searcy and sophomores Chris proach his personal career be­McGuire and Andrew Gordon. sts, they are his fastest times Gordon also finished third in of the season. the 200-meter dash with a time 
Freshman Tom Kraus of 22.7. Piane noted that Gor­defeated Marquette's Paul don, a native of May Pen,The Notre Dame track team ran away from Pete Gegen runs down the action at right. 
Nowakowski in the shot put for 
the field at the Midwest Catholic Invitational. see GORDON, page 18
the first time in three tries this 

Fallon's final regular season has successful ending 
By THERESA KELLY at the Courtney Courts, defeat­Daggs won at number two to defeated his Kalamazoo op­from early injuries," said Fal­Sports Writer ing his Spartan opponent 6-4, clinch the fifth win.'' ponent, 7-5, 8-6. lon, reviewing the season. "It 6-3. Irish second man Brian The Irish had another tough "Wallace was the star for us, was a great effort on the part 

The Notre Dame men's ten­Kalbas easily took his match match against Kalamazoo, a although everyone played of the whole team. nis team made Head Coach 6-2, 6-1. Dan Walsh went to top-ranked Division III team on well," said Fallon. "He was in "It took some reorganiza­Tom Fallon's last days at Notre three sets with his opponent, 0-Sunday. The Irish won four of trouble early, but came back tion, and it was good to see the Dame memorable by winning 6, 6-2, 6-2. the six singles matches but did to win in singles. Then he and B-team players working out two close matches. Saturday, In doubles action, the Irish not clinch the team victory un­Sean O'Brien clinched in the well. We had new doubles com­the Irish narrowly defeated took two of three, with Walsh til Wallace and O'Brien again doubles. binations, too, but we put it all Michigan State, 5-4, and fol­and Paul Daggs winning 6-2, 6-won their number-three "It was a nice way to go out. together and the season came lowed it up Sunday with a vic­3, and Mike Wallace and Sean doubles match, 6-4, 6-2. We had a couple of heroes each out really well." tory over Kalamazoo, also 5-4. O'Brien winning 6-3, 6-1. Kalbas won his second match day." The matches mark the end of 
"We won two squeakers," "Dan Walsh was the hero on of the weekend, 6-3, 6-2, as did The Irish season mark stands Fallon's final regular season. said Fallon, "It was great to Saturday," said Fallon. "He Walsh, 6-3, 7-5. Daggs won a at 24-11 after this weekend's ex­The winningest coach in Notre end on a good note.'' came back to win a very tough tough singles number-six citing action, which marked Dame history totaled 518 vic-
Tim Carr won at the number­match and gave us a tie going match, 6-4,6-7,6-2. In the fourth the end of the regular season. one spot for the Irish Saturday into the doubles. He and (Paul) spot, the freshman Wallace "We made a nic~ comeback see FALLON, page 18 
Irish offensive production weak 
,, 
•

: l}: 
ID baseball team's weekend 
\ : By STEVE MEGARGEE with the Irish. Game time is Irish offense all season, fell to ) h Sports Writer 3:30p.m. 2-7 with the hard-luck loss. The Irish did not have much "He (Piotrowicz) has got a
ll l 
Last season, the Notre Dame success with yesterday's lot of heart, and he's improved 
I 
I baseball team took out the Northwestern pitchers, as every time out," said Irish ·< I frustrations of a 22-28 cam­Notre Dame only could head coach Larry Gallo. "His I paign by destroying Northwes­manage three hits against the record shows he's 2-7, but I 
/'liJ!i .. 
I tern, 22-5, in the final game of duo of Everett Cunningham don't think in any size, shape 
I the year. and Chris Nichting. Mter a or form that he's a loser. For 
•. \~t
I Ifthe Irish are to do the same serious scoring threat in the a freshman, he's pitched in a 
I ~ thing in today's season-ending sixth inning, the Irish did not lot of close games, and I don't 
I P 
showdown with the Wildcats, have a baserunner in the final think he'd like it any other
I 
they will have to show a much three innings, and a seventh­way."
I }
I ; improved offensive attack inning run by Mike Stein gave 
I from last weekend's games. the Wildcats a 1-0 win, wasting The Irish bats came alive a 
I ~ Notre Dame pitchers only al­a five-hit outing by Irish little in the second game, as a 
I) ~ lowed four runs in three games, pitcher Kevin Chenail. three-run fourth inning paced I ' \. but the hitters also tallied only Northwestern holds a record of Notre Dame in a 4-1 victory. 
four runs, as the Irish split a 19-17-1. Mike Passilla allowed one run I~~li".: doubleheader with Xavier, In Saturday's doubleheader in six and two-thirds innings, I losing 2-0 and winning 4-1, and with Xavier, the Irish received and Mike Harmon got the final 
lost to Northwestern, 1-0. The two other good pitching perfor­out of the game for the save. i " Irish now stand at 15-28 going mances from their starters, but Xavier's re~ord went to 27-18.
f 
into the last game of the only had one win to show for it. "Mike Passilla had runs to 
season. 'Ethel Merman Day' at Jake work with, and he pitched
I 
j Notre Dame hitters can ex­Kline Field must have helped well," said Gallo. "Harmon did 
I. pect to face another strong the pitchers, as two first-inning the job he was supposed to do. 
~ 
challenge in today's matchup runs .by Xavier provided the "The pitching's been good 
...... "

with the Wildcats at Jake Kline only offense in the entire first over the last week or so,'' said
J
I Field. Northwestern's starting game, as the Musketeers won, Gallo. "It was just we didn't hit 
..­

pitcher, Tony Ariola, is a pre­2-0, behind Dave Neuer's three­with authority the way we'd
~. The ObservertGreg Kohs 
season first-team All-Big Ten hitter. Irish starter Brian like to." Mike Passilla picked up the victory in Notre Dame's only baseball 1 selection and threw a four­Piotrowicz, who has not been Gallo could have said those win this weekend. Steve Megargee details the weekend games ) hitter in last year's meeting receiving many runs from the same words the next day. at left. 
1 
1 


The Observeri.Jim Carroll 
~­

---------• 





