Getting high 
IACCENT: Santa's Christmas Quiz Showers possible with highs near 50 this morning, becom­ing cooler this afternoon. Cloudy tonight, lows in the mid 
IVIEWPOINT: Bungling the budget 
30s. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 65 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Superpowers sign 

historic treaty 
Associated Press missiles on each side to be destroyed by launching them 
WASHINGTON-President without their warheads or by Reagan and Soviet leader Mik­dismantling and exploding hail Gorbachev, in a landmark their components. moment of superpower affairs, "We can be proud of planting signed a treaty Tuesday ban­this sapling which may one day ning intermediate-range nu­grow into a great oak of clear missiles and began talks peace," Gorbachev that would reduce the number proclaimed. of more threatening long-range "May December 8th, 1987 be­weapons. come a date that will be in­
scribed in the history books--a 
There were "no surprises or date that will mark the new proposals" during the first watershed separating the era day of the three-day summit, of a mounting risk of nuclear an administration official said war from the era of a Tuesday evening after both demilitarization of human leaders expressed satisfaction life," the Soviet leader said. with the day's main order of business. Said Reagan: "We can only 
"We have made history," hope that this history-making Reagan declared after he and agreement will not be an end Gorbachev spent more than in itself, but a beginning." three minutes putting their Reagan and Gorbachev, signatures--time and again-­leaders of the world's foremost into leather-bound volumes capitalist and communist containing the treaty and societies, sat side by side to accompanying documents. sign the agreement under the 

The INF treaty gives the su­cut-glass chandeliers of the perpowers close to three years East Room.Flower power to destroy their arsenals of After the day's summitry medium-and short-range mis­was over, Gorbachev hosted a
A senior's room is flagrantly fragrant after she 
siles in the 340-to 3,000-mile
received 300 roses from a person she has dated. 
range. This process allows 100 see SUMMIT, page 6 

Auto accident victim is recovering from her injuries 
By JIM RILEY cording to the report filed with p.m. Monday at the Juniper campus sophomore, was cross­Sikorski said he also needed 
News Editor the University by Officer Irv Road traffic light in front of the ing the street with the light to interview other witnesses he Sikorski, who is investigating Hesburgh Library, the report when she was struck by the car. had not yet been able to con­
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1987 


The Notre Dame student who was hit by a car on Juniper Road Monday night was recovering from a concussion and fractured ankle in the stu­dent health center Tuesday, said Investigator Bill Hedl of Notre Dame Security. 
The car was driven by a Notre Dame administrator, ac-the incident for Security. 
No charges had been filed Tuesday, but "at this point, with the investigation incom­plete, that's still up in the air," said Sikorski. 
He said the accident was not alcohol-related. 
The accident occurred at 6: 53 

HPC discusses funding of non-alcoholic events 
By LAURIE that money would be differ­LESNIEWSKI ent this year, according to News Staff Froman, who added that the presidents are largely un­
The HPC decided Tuesday certain of exactly what those to seek clarification from changes are. Student Activities on the Froman said the Presi­parameters of spending dents have not yet received each dorms $500 allotment those funds and the Council for non-alcoholic events, has requested clarification said Jamie Froman, Carroll on the new policy from the Hall president. administration, and plans to 
In previous years, each meet with Cassidy next se­dorm received $500 from the mester. Office of Student Activities Several presidents re­to spend on non-alcholic ported that Cassidy said the events, said Froman. money must be used in one 
Early this semester Joe lump sum, rather than to Cassidy, director of student fund a variety of events. affairs, told council mem­bers that policy for spending see HPC, page 3 said. The woman was taken by "This leads us to believe the tact. ambulance to St. Joseph's driver did not stop (at the light) "The pavement was wet, but Medical Center. She was as he should have," said Hedl. it was not raining at the time released to the student health (of the accident)," said 

center Monday night, said He said the driver was very Sikorski. "The rain had been Hedl. shaken up when Security intermittent that evening." talked to him Monday night, The driver of the car was not 
Sikorski said that according and Security wanted to re­injured, Sikorski said. No other to interviews conducted with interview him to see if someth­passengers or pedestrians witnesses, the woman, an off-ing more could be learned. were involved, he added. 


Gunman employee apparently responsible for plane crash 
Associated Press Richard Bretzing, head of the rounds of ammunition, said 
FBI office in Los Angeles, said ABC's Tom Schell. 

CAYUCOS, Calif.-The FBI before the ABC report. "It ap­In Washington, David said today that the fiery crash pears at this point--and has yet Shipley, a spokesman for of a PSA jet appeared to have to be substantiated--that it was USAir, said the passengers in­been caused by "a criminal a criminal act on board that cluded a former airline em­act," and ABC News reported caused the craft to come ployee who had been fired on a former USAir employee gun­down." Nov. 19 "for misappropriation ning for his boss was among of funds." However, he said he the 43 people aboard. ABC news said a former em­had no information as to whe­
The pilot of the jet radioed ployee of USAir, using his air­ther the former employee was 
that there was gunfire aboard line badge to avoid security in any way involved in the ac­and smoke in the cockpit checks, boarded the plane in­cident. shortly before it crashed onto tending to kill the boss who had USAir bought Pacific South­a cattle ranch in a picturesque recently fired him and was on west Airlines earlier this year, region of central California on the flight. but continues to operate it as a Monday afternoon, killing all The former USAir employee separate airline. 
aboard, officials and witnesses reportedly left behind a suicide Pieces of the plane scattered said. note in which he said he would across 20 acres of brush and 
"At this point it does not ap­get on the plane with a .44-oak grove on a hillside, the pear that it was an accident," caliber Magnum and six owner of the ranch said. 
.-------------------~--~--~--­
Wednesday, December 9, 1987
page 2 The Observer 




In Brief 
Airport security checkpoints have confiscated thousands of weapons over the years, but critics say the screening is uneven among airlines and airports, and FAA spot checks have shown weapons often may get through. A series of tests by the Federal Aviation Administration revealed that one out of five mock weapons escaped de­tection at screening checkpoints. During the series ofFAA tests, the agency found a wide range of accuracy in the screening programs. At one airport just over half the mock weapons passed through. Overall the detection rate ranged from 48 percent to 99 percent. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Free refreshments will be served at showings of,"A Christmas Carol" and "It's a Wonderful Life." The showings will be tonight at 7 and 9 in the game room of Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
FinanciaiAidFormsfor1988-89arebeingdistributed this week through the mail. Students who have not received an F AF by next week may pick one up at the Financial Aid Office. -The Observer 
Dimensions in jazz, a concert featuring ND's two Big Bands, will take place tonight at 8 in Washington Hall. 
-The Observer 
Air Force ROTC will be holding their annual Dining-In in the JACC Monogram Room tonight. The guest of honor is Lieutenant General Aloysius Casey, commander of Space Division, Los Angeles Air Force Base. -The Obser­ver 
The Bridge Club meets tonight at 11 in the basement 
of Alumni. This is the last meeting of the semester. -The 
Observer 
The Equestrian Club meets tonight at 10 in Room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. The meeting is mandatory for all those who planning to attend Sunday's gathering. For information, contact Liz at 283-2934. -The Observer 
Sean Coleman, newly-elected South Bend councilman and a graduate of Notre Dame, will be the guest on tonight's Campus Perspectives talk show on WVFI 640 AM. Lynsey Strand will host the show, from 10 to 11 p.m. Calls will be taken at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The Ceramics Department Annual Christmas Pottery Sale continues today in the O'Shaughnessy Great Hall from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and will run until Friday. -The Observer 
Applicationsforthe1988AnTostalExecutivecommittee are available from the SUB secretary on 2nd floor LaFor­tune and are due today. For questions, call Colleen at 283-4034 or Dave at 277-9237. -The Observer 
Sophomore Ski Trip sign ups continue today through Friday from 2-4 p.m. in the Sophomore class office, 2nd floor LaFortune. The trip will be the weekend of Jan. 22-24 at Boyne Mountain. See flyers for more detail. -The Ob­server 
Broomball Tournament Sign-ups will continue today and tomorrow in the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFor­tune. Each team must have 7 players. The tournament will be held during Winterfest at the beginning of next semester. -The Observer 
We want to know! 
Ifyou see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 
---. ----.L~Y~'---­
-Ih-e-Obse.-~~r-­
Design Editor .............. Melissa Warnke Accent Layout... . ...... Rachel O'Hara Design Assistant .............. Allison Cocks Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cathy Haynes Typesetters . . . . ........ Becky Gunderman ............................................ Jenn Conlon 
. . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . ........... Dana J annotta ND Day Editors... . .... Katie Gugle News Editor . ........... Ann Marie Durning SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Copy Editor ...................... Tim O'Keefe Photographer...... . Paul Oeschger Sports Copy Editor... . ... Theresa Kelly Sports Wednesday Editor .. Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Julie Collinge Sports Wednesday Layout .. Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint Layoat .............. Laura Manzi Layout Staff... . .............. Karen Voltura Accent Copy Editor ............ Mike Restle 
TM a.-ner (USPS $99 2--4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriaa cum and vacation periods. ne Olleener is published by the students of the University of Notte Dame and Saint Mary's CoUeae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2$ per ICIDater) by writina TM OblerYer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46$$6. 
ne a..ner is a member of ne .u.odllled Pnu. All reproduction riahts are 


Food fight bill thrown about for a long pass 
Oh that food fight. 

Way back in September, a group of students 
threw food around and caused 1400 dollars 
worth of damage. Months passed, Tim Brown 
won the Reisman, Muffy started the women's 
basketball team off on the right foot, and the 
Student Senate completed something useful-­
the survey. 

During that time, the ominous $1400 bill some­how materialized in the hands of somebody and then everybody heard about it and nobody wanted to pay it, but everybody thought some­body else should. Then came the ultimate delay­-the bill was given to student government to take care of. 
The passing of the bill was like the old lateral kickoff return during a football game on the quad. I'm not sure who caught it first, but I think the jersey read "Class Officers." No Reis­man for those guys. They pitched it to the Hall Presidents Council. A couple of people on HPC thought it would be a good idea to try to advance the bill toward the "paid-in-full" endzone. They concocted a plan, but they needed help blocking from the class offices, student body govern­ment, and student senate. HPC called out the signals, but the senate tripped the HPC and the ball,bill was fumbled. Unfortunately, the senate recovered. 
In the meantime, the fans, especially the stu­dent body, saw the play developing. They began to boo the advances with full strength. The senators, those wild and crazy representatives of the student body, couldn't hear the boos over the din of their own thinking. They decided to call a timeout and make a plan. 
That's where we are now. The bill still hasn't been paid, and nobody knows if it will be paid. In fact, a lot of people don't know if it should be paid. I'd even go out on a limb and say that a few of the fans don't care if it is ever paid. The issue is dying, as the scoreboard clock ticks away. But the senate doesn't want it to die. Heck no. They can debate it right into overtime. 
The latest notion to pop out of that bastion of rational thinking is the idea that the money for the bill could be recovered by doing away with ice cream or dessert for awhile. I can just hear the fans singing the new version of our Alma Mater. Notre Dame Our Mother, has taken de ;ert 
away. 

Ashamedly in the dining halls, we endure a 
dessert-less day. 

Our ice-cream bowls are empty, 'the food fight' 
is their claim. 

Desserts are gone forever, at the senate's Notre 
Dame. 

The defense has virtually left the field. They figure that only ~he senate can stop the senate from performing well. The biggest obstacle for the senate is that they don't know which way to go. 

Should they carry the bill toward the "paid­in-full" endzone? If they do that, how do they get there? Using a no dessert formation is sure to generate ridicule from the student section in the stands. Ifthey try to advance out of a pro-set fund raiser formation, they may not get enough blocking from everyone to successively pull the play off. 
Maybe the senate could win if they simply put the baUbill back into Coach Goldrick's hands and said "Sorry, this play won't work. We have better things to tend to, like the Con­tingency Fund." Coach Goldrick could then dis­card the food fight plan, something the fans thought he should have done at the start. 
One thing is certain. Not even Arena Football provided as much fun as the food fight issue has. Maybe we could make Lou Holtz pay it. It was his fault we beat Michigan to begin with. Unfortunately, not even a crazy plan like that is good enough for the senate. 
Can the senate complete the play? I know they won't pass the ball, because there is almost nobody left to pass it to. Besides, the senate would never pass up a chance to make a moun­tain range out of a dirt speck. What I want to know is, if the bill is paid, does anybody win? Does anybody lose? Does anybody care? Be­sides the senate, of course. 
Maybe they will make a movie. "The Bad News Bears Go To Student Government." Com­edy. Tragedy. Both. 
·---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial benefits worth as much as S25,000 to qualified college sophomores. All these benefits are pro\'ided for one purpose: to edm..
111e and train qualified young men and women to serve as commissioned officers in the Navy. 
The ~ary pays for tuition. textbooks, instructional fa.-s, and gi\'es you an allowance ofSIOO a month for up to 20 months during your last two years ofcollege. L~pon graduation and completion of requirements, you'll become an important part of the Na\'y aJ,·enture as a Na,·y oflicer. 
Call your Na\'y representati,·c for more information on this challenging and rcwardin_g_program. 
For more information call Lieutenant Commander Ttm Wieand at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 

NAVY~OFFICER. 
~-~=·~~.;'~tj;_r;_,.~~:=;~~;~;;;_~;~~~-:;~~-f:~~~';_:;&~:;;_~·i{t§_~~·:-~-;':-~~-,~:;-~~-~~#~~~~~:i::::~,.;_~.;~~~~~~~~';[;~~-~::;_;:-;~Y:~-;~::;-*k:.:~~~;~,;~-: 
••• .............. J, ....... :.o-............... _ .... -·· -·· ...._.__........_ ·---~--..;. ······---·---·-.;. •_:a,..___ ••••.••• _ ............·••. r, ......... -... ·~:.;.·.••.• -• .-·.·~ .... ··-·-·••• 
-LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 

----------~------------------------~--­
Wednesday, December 9, 1987 
The Observer 


Plane crashes in Antarctica; 3 Americans hurt, 3 missing 
He said he was unable to transmissions from McMurdo,
Associated Press 
comment on reports by ham reported the plane's wing tip CHRISTCHURCH, New radio operators that three dragged, then the craft flipped Zealand-A U.S. military Americans were unaccounted over. The New Zealand Press As­
transport plane carrying 11 for and feared dead. people crashed on an icy sociation quoted Park as 
an

airstrip in Antarctica Wednes­"I have no information ... saying, ''They found but day, and reports said three of any fatalities. That would be three of the passengers. There people were missing and at merely speculative," Harler are three injured. One has back said. injuries, one had neck injuries 
least three were injured. 
Cmdr. Bob Harler, head of The four-engine plane, and one had a few broken ribs. the U.S. Navy's Antarctic re­equipped with ski-type landing search program, Operation gear, crashed at 9 a.m. (5 p.m. The news agency said emer­Deepfreeze, said the C-130 Her­Tuesday EST) during an oper­gency medical teams were 
cules plane was carrying 11 ation to recover another Her­headed to the crash site from people and crashed on a small cules that went down at the site the U.S. National Science airstrip about 600 miles north 15 years ago. Foundation base at McMurdo 
of America's McMurdo Sta­Russell Park, a ham oper­Sound, three hours flying time tion. ator who said he overheard from the crash site. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Attention Juniors: 
IF 
YOU THOUGHT YOU COULDN'T START AT THE TOP 

NOW YOU
MAY 
Explore summer internships with an industry leader which 

-Demands Entrepreneurship -Emphasizes Career Growth Based on Individual Performance -Offers Challenging Responsibility -Provides a TOP-rated Internship Training Program 
*Interviews to be held on Tuesday, February 9, 1988 *Profile form turn in date by Monday, January 25, 1988 at the Career and Placement Services *For profile forms and more information please contact the Career and Placement Services Office 
The Observer 1 Paul Oeschger

Door decor 
Seniors Kara O'Neil, left, and Kate Hyder decorate Hyder's door in Howard Hall. Hyder puts on the final bit of tape to hold Santa down, so he can rest securely during the holiday season. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
Cassidy also suggested that the dorms should pair off and plan one large non-alcoholic event, with the possibility of awards given to the dorms who sponsored successful or unus­ual events, according to Kath­leen Maglicic, president of Breen-Phillips Hall. 
"We are in a quandary about this, and we are wondering why we can't use the money we are seeking the way we want.... Personally, I would prefer to spend it on the picnics," Froman remarked, referring to the dorm picnics with bands that Carroll Hall has held in recent years. 
Guest speaker Bob Chal­lenger, a student representa­tive from the Residentiality Task Force, asked HPC mem­bers to get feedback from the students on how they evaluate the services available to them on campus. 
Challenger said he is trying to maximize students' satisfac­tion with the services that are offered them. 
Challenger mentioned offer­ing women on-campus laundry service and having a better or­ganized tutoring program for students as possible improve­ments which the task force may focus on if students would support those changes. 
He said he will hear students' input at a meeting next semes­ter. 

1;
WHAT'S THE NEXT 
.
BEST THING TO A 
You can give someone a place in the sun for only $25.00. Our pre­wrapped giftpack in­cludes agift certificate for 1 0 tanning sessions and a TanPro Skin Care Kit to promote a beautiful, healthy-look­ing tan. 
-WITH COUPON ---, 
A '40 Value! I 
: TANNING GIFTPACK : 
1 
only $25°0 1
I I
Offor oxpooo 1111118 
~:~:-::.~~!o~cifw ~· I 

-WITH COUPON ---..,_ --_:::. _J 
s1 Off I Check your I local phone listing for the Fiesta 
-----~ ---~---------------~-~ 
--------------------~-~-----­
Wednesday, December 9, 1987
page 4 The Observer 




Security Beat 
Sunday, December 6 
9:03 p.m. A Holy Cross Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his jacket from the West wing of the South Dining Hall between 6: 45 and 7:30 
p.m. The jacket was later found and returned. 
9:15p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported that his bookbag was stolen from his unlocked room between 
12:30 p.m. on Dec. 3 and 8:50 a.m. on Dec. 4. His loss is estimated at $75. 
Monday, December 7 
3:13 a.m. Security was called to assist an Indiana State Trooper at the Campus View Apartments in regards to a Christmas Tree which was stolen from Grace Hall. The tree was confiscated and returned to the Notre Dame Security Office. 

7 a.m. A University employee re­ported that a window in the Haggar Hall Library was broken between 6 
p.m. on Dec. 4 and 6 a.m. on Dec. 7. 
12:01 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported that his bookbag was stolen from his unlocked room be­tween 2:35 and 2:55p.m. on Dec. 3. His loss is esimated at $264. 
2 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported that his jacket was stolen from his room during an SYR be­tween 11 p.m. and 2 a.m. on Dec. 4. His loss is estimated at $270. 
7 p.m. A traffic accident was re­ported involving a student on Juniper Road. 
7:32p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the loss of a silver necklace between Lewis Hall and the D2 parking lot. His loss is estimated at $50. 
. . 
Tuesday, December 8 

2:21a.m. Security apprehended a suspicious· person roaming in the D6 parking lot. The suspect was cited for public intoxication and resisting arrest, then transported to the St. Joseph County Jail. 
8:50a.m. Security responded to a minor traffic accident at the en­trance to the C2 parking lot. No one was injured and damage was mini­mal. 
2:30 p.m. A University employee reported that two trees were stolen from the Burke Golf Course. Damage is estimated at $140. 

ABA gives high rating to nominee 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -An Ameri­can Bar Association panel decided unanimously Tuesday to give Supreme Court nominee Anthony Kennedy its highest rating a week before the Senate opens hearings on him. 
The ABA panel's rating of "well qualified" was a boost for 
Faculty Exhibit, which will be on display until Jan. 17. 


AIDS education is urged for physicians 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Per­sonal physicians need more competence in counseling patients afflicted with AIDS, and medical schools need to prepare their students better for that task, a top AIDS re­searcher said Tuesday. 
However, Dr. Michael Got­tlieb, the founding chairman of the American Foundation for AIDS Research and the first doctor to diagnose the disease, said he held little hope doctors would be able to overcome their prejudices, fears and lack of training to take on a greater role in curbing the spread of the fatal affliction. 
"I think the prognosis is poor," Gottlieb said at a news conference marking the end of an Indiana University sympo­sium on acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
"Physicians are often in a po­sition to counsel such persons," Gottlieb added, "but usually they fail." 
AIDS, for which there is no known cure, attacks and destroys the body's immunity system. It is spread primarily through sexual contact and 
blood products. "There is a 

What Can An 
MBA 
Degree 
Do For 
You? 
T · H · E 
OHIO 
SlATE 
UNIVERSITY 
tion that we can't rely on lab­oratory science alone and on technology alone to control this epidemic--that a behavioral response as well, and much ex­panded programs of public education, are essential," Got­tlieb said. 
Gottlieb, director of clinical research at Porton Medical Laboratories in Sherman Oaks, Calif., criticized the behavior of most physicians when they have diagnosed AIDS in a pa­tient. 
Most physicians have no for­mal training in human sexuality, he noted, and they avoid taking a patient's sexual history as part of his or her medical history. In addition, some physicians are prejudiced against homosexuals or are afraid to work with the AIDS virus. 
Andrew Mattison and Dr. David McWhirter, whose re­search on male homosexual couples was published in 1983 in the book, ''The Male Couple," said emotional reac­tions in AIDS patients range from increased spirituality to a desire to help other sufferers through videotaped interviews 
An MBA degree from Ohio State can bring you greater opponunities, income, and career challenges. Our nationally recognized MBA program offers merit-based fmancial aid and has no prerequisites. We enroll both business and nonbusiness majors. And many of our graduates have gone on to jobs with established leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For a free brochure about our programs, please write or call: 
Direaor, MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hageny Hall 
1775 College Road Columbus, OH 43210-1399 614-292-8511 

Kennedy, a federal appeals ~~;;~~;:~;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::
court judge who is President 
Reagan's third choice to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court. 
The Senate Judiciary Com­mittee plans to start confirma­tion hearings next Monday. 
The 15-member ABA stand­ing Committee on the Federal Judiciary rated Kennedy, 51, of Sacramento, Calif., well qualified to serve on the Su­preme Court, Justice Depart­ment spokesman Terry Eastland said. The other possi­ble ratings were "not opposed" and "not qualified." 
No senator has announced opposition to Kennedy. All but one of the women's, civil rights and civil liberties organiza­tions that campaigned against defeated Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork have remained neutral so far. 
Only the National Organiza­tion for Women, which opposed Bork, and the anti-abortion American Life League have an­nounced opposition to Ken­nedy, a 12-year veteran of the 9th U.S. circuit Court of Ap­peals who has written more th~m 400 opinions. 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yoursel~, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN: October 9-11, 1987 November 20-22, 1987 January 22-24, 1988 
* March 25-27, 1988 


OFFICE OF CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 0MPUS 
(Badin Hall) 239-5242 COST: $15.00 MINISTRY 


Wednesday, December 9, 1987 
The Observer page 5 
Soviet Union offers 





Pact sets standard for future 

Associated Press
no clemency for pilot 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The Soviet Union on Tuesday squelched rumors that daredevil pilot Mathias Rust would be out of prison and back home in West Germany for Christmas. 
Rust astounded the world and embarrassed the Soviets on May 28 by flying a single-engine Cessna plane from Helsinki, Finland, through the vaunted Soviet air defense system to Red Square, where he landed next to the Kremlin wall. 


Copies of the treaty itself weren't publicly available until after the signing. But well before the document was finished. detractors com­
the ultimate plained that it contained too little protection against cheat­ing and that, while billed as an agreement to scrap a wholechristmas 
class of nuclear weapons, it left the vast majority of weapons, including all the most danger­ous missiles and bombers, in



gift! 
place. 

CHRISTMAS CONCERT 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11 8:00PM STEPAN CENTER FREE ADMISSION -NO TICKET NECESSARY 
Co-sponsored by the 
Notre Dame Glee Club & 
Student 
Pick them up at ADWORKS 301 

However, the INF treaty, as it is commonly called, requires both sides to scrap all missiles that can strike targets 300 to 3,400 miles from their launch sites. Because most such mis­siles are mobile and some resemble others outside the af­fected class, compliance with the treaty is difficult to ensure. 
Gorbachev called signing of the document ''the first step down the road leading to a nuclear-free world." The gen­eral secretary of the Soviet Communist Party described the agreement as the most stringently verified accord of its time. 
Reagan said, "We can only hope that this history-making agreement will not be an end in itself, but a beginning." 
''The importance of this treaty transcends numbers," Reagan said. "This agreement contains the most stringent verification" procedures in arms control history. 
Reagan, who opposed the never-ratified SALT II treaty on grounds that it was unverifi­able, insisted that any arms control treaty negotiated during his administration would have to contain provi­sions permitting on-site inspec­tion to check for cheating. The INF treaty does that. 
"This gets into details no other treaty contemplated," said one senior American offi­cial familiar with the negotia­tions in Geneva that brought the document into final form. "It not only permits challenge inspections, but it sets out just how you conduct one, how much time the other side has to get you to what you want to see, and so on." 
The official, speaking on con­dition he not be identified, said many of the provisions drafted for the INF treaty already are being used at the Geneva talks where negotiators are trying to work out a mueh more far­reaching accord that would halve the superpowers' strate­gic arsenals. 
''They're talking treaty lan­guage at START (the Strategic Arms Reductions Talks), and whole blocks of that language can be lifted from INF and ap­plied to START," the official said. 

The unauthorized flight led to a top-echelon shakeup in the Soviet military. 
The 19-year-old pilot, who said his flight was to ad­vance peace, has been in confinement since he landed. 
On Sept. 4, the Soviet Su­preme Court convicted him of illegal entry into the So­viet Union, violating inter­national air safety regula­tions and malicious hooliganism, and sentenced him to four years in a labor camp. 

2:30-5:30 pm 
WASHINGTON -The new treaty banning U.S. and Soviet intermediate-range nuclear forces has been dismissed by some as strategically insig­nificant, but officials say its detailed verification procedures already are being put in proposals for a wholesale cut in long-range missiles. 
The accord, whose final lan­guage wasn't agreed upon until hours before it was signed by President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev on Tuesday, is described by those who worked on it as the most meticulous document of its kind ever negotiated. 



-~~---------~-----------~-----­
Wednesday, December 9, 1987 
summits, it was "Mr. Presi­

Summit 
dent" and "Mr. General Secre­
continued from page 1 
tary." group of about 60 prominent The president pressed Gor­Americans at the Soviet em­bachev on human rights and bassy. He appealed for said U.S. officials would give scholars and artists to pressure the Soviets "some cases" in­political figures to forge a ''new volving Jewish "refuseniks" relationship" between the su­and divided spouses, according perpowers. to a senior administration offi­
cial who declined to be identi­
Following the session, the fied. Gorbachev defended the Gorbachevs were guests at a Soviets' human rights record White House state dinner. and countered with problems in 
In their private summit the United States. talks, the two leaders agreed On arms control and other is­to Reagan's suggestion to talk sues, the official said, "There on a first-name basis: Ron and were no surprises or new Mikhail. At their two earlier proposals today." 
Pot pushers The Observer I Paul Oeschger 
The Great Hall in O'Shaugnessy is the site of the Hintze, Tracy Dippo, Bill Kremer, and Sek Thim Chee Christmas Pottery Sale, which continues through (not pictured). Friday. It features the work of, from left to right, Rick 

Nicaragua may prosecute:**************************************************:
downed American pilot ! TAKE A STUDY BREAK YOU GEEK!! ! 
Associated Press In a recent interview, Denby : GO TO NIGHTCLUB NIGHT AT : said he sometimes gave the MANAGUA, Nicaragua-rebels food or flew their : THEODORE~ : Nicaragua said Tuesday its sol­wounded to hospitals, but did 
diers shot down a small plane not supply weapons or help !* WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 9 9:30PM !* flown by an American linked to them fight. He owns a farm in ! FEATURING THREE OF THE HOTTEST YOUNG COMEDIANS: !
Contra rebels, and he may be Costa Rica near the put on trial. Nicaraguan border. 
* * 
James Denby, 57, of Carlin­

ville, Ill., "was moved to the The Defense Ministry said * WILL DIEDRICH BRIAN HOlliNGSWORTH STEVEN KIMBROUGH * capital Monday, and at this rifle fire hit the fuel tank of * *
* Sly hands-which is why A Big Man with a big heart This HOOSIER has been * time is being interrogated by Denby's Cessna 172 and it made * all the girls sit in the who will hit you with a voted "THE FUNNIEST * state security" about ties to the an emergency landing Sunday * front row. Too smooth Big, Big punch line! A man MAN IN INDIANA" 
* 
U.S.-supported rebels, Defense at San Juan del Norte, on the * to be Iunny, and funny whose income has been What? How can anyone * Minister Humberto Ortega told Caribbean coast just inside **· enough to be smooth. seriously supplemented by the from Indiana be funny? ** a news conference. He said the Nicaragua's border with Costa Will's gonna catch you save the whales foundation! Come out to Theodore's * American was "in good Rica. * off guard! and check him out! *
* 

health." Ortega said Denby might be 
Contra leader Adolfo Calero tried, as was Eugene Hasenfus ! CHECK OUT OUR FULL FOOD & DRINK BAR ! said in Miami: "Mr. Denby or of Marinette, Wis., but added: * -great for a late night snack * whatever his name is has ab­"This time the laws of the ! SPONSORED BY SOB : 
solutely no connection to us." country should be applied more 

He accused the leftist Sandinis­severely." •**************************************************• 
tas of generating propaganda Hasenfus was captured in from an illegal attack on a October 1986 after a Contra plane. resupply flight was shot down.
..... 








Viewpoint

Wednesday, December 9, 1987 page 7 
Budget accord fails in lack of resolve 
Most of Washington this week is aflut­ter over General Secretary Gorbac­hev's summit visit to sign the historic INF accord, as well it should be. Yet while Gorbachev and Reagan exchange public relation blows, congressmen work furiously on the recently con­cluded budget reduction accord. Time is indeed of the essence, for unless the two-year, $76 billion dollar plan passes congress and becomes law, Gramm­Rudman's sequestration will rear its ugly head with $23 billion in automatic, across-the-board cuts for fiscal 1988. A failure to enact the plan could topple the world markets' already precarious position and spell disaster. According­ly, the content of the package becomes for the moment secondary, a sorry sit­uation indeed, for this budget deal fails miserably to signal a determined United States government bent upon fiscal responsibility. 
Matt Slaughter 
and another thing 
Even a superficial glance at the plan's particulars reveals a serious lack of resolve among its authors. $30 billion is to be saved in fiscal 1988, but at least a quarter of this comes from short-term gimmicks rather than true restraint: $5 billion from the sale of government rural electrification loans, $1.6 billion from "improved" IRS col­lection procedures, $1.2 billion from refiguring the interest on the national debt. Discount these accounting tech­nicalities and the package falls below Gramm-Rudman's required $23 billion in actual spending cuts. 
The problem as I see it is that Congress and the president recognize the detrimental effects sustained budget deficits incur, but they tie their hands before they even reach office with ridiculous campaign promises in pursuit of the almighty vote and cam­paign donation. Budget deficits in and of themselves need not be bad. Indeed, as Keynes described in theory in 1936 and Roosevelt proved in practice throughout the 1930s, government def­icit spending can stimulate the ag­gregate demand of the economy when no other sector is able, and thereby bring on recovery. Yet here we are in the 61st month of economic recovery, the longest peacetime expansion in his­tory, and are running federal deficits pushing 5 percent of GNP, up from 2.2 
percent in 1980 when Reagan became president-elect. Sustained deficits of this magnitude in times of prosperity seem unnecessary and dangerous. Economically, deficits requiring gov­ernment borrowing of some $150 billion annually crowd out private borrowing for investment, and they constrain the latitude of fiscal policy as an economic tool. And psychologically, the sheer size of them helps place the international economic community on edge, as the recent worldwide market crash can at­test. 
Given this consensus among nearly all in Washington that the current fiscal excesses must be reigned in, these policymakers often find there is little they can do, given the ridiculous cam­paign promises they prophesy. An un­fortunate constitutional oversight of our founding fathers dictates that all revenue raising and appropriating bills must originate in the House of Repre­sentatives, while these same represen­tatives all must come up for reelection every two years. A representative, it would seem, could find himself continu­ally campaigning while intermittently legislating. The president and the Sen­ate, the other two nearly important legs in the fiscal policy trinity, often suffer the same fate. Without fail, the air around election time fills with a cacop­hony of outrageous promises, resulting in policy-making giving way to pork barreling. In 1984, Walter Mondale was enough of a realist to state he would raise taxes; Ronald Reagan vowed never to commit such a mortal sin. And surprise, Reagan won in the biggest electoral landslide in history. Part of the blame lies with us the public for exacting from our leaders such silly campaign vows to appease ourselves; but more so with our elected officials who so consciously restrict their ability to govern. 
What is needed is an honest assess­ment of the situation and a disinter­ested look at possible remedies. The current fiscal irresponsibility must end, and its end will not be without pain. What combination of outlay restraints and revenue enhancers will best redirect our government and the eco­nomy I, a college sophomore, have no idea; let the economists haggle over this. But let the rest of us help them by scrutinizing every facet of the budget, leaving no "sacred cows." 
To argue that in the defense budget, the largest component of the overall 

Doonesbury 
YOU CAU HIM JEFFREY, I 
HOP£. {)()R. CHII-17 15 NAM/3.17 CHR/5TOPH&R, 8UTtv& PJ()()LJJf./T PReAM OFCAlliNG HIM CHRIS! 

JCFF'S A LITTlE 80'1. 
NIO<NAM/3.5 ARECASI&R. 
ANI? SOM/3. MIGHT Al/P, A TA/7 1£95 PRU&NTIOUS. 
'\ 
budget at nearly $300 billion, there exists no room for fiscal austerity is folly. Billions could probably be cut here, while simultaneously even bolstering our nation's defenses in in­troducing more efficiency. A 190-pound sidewinder missile costs the Pentagon some $50,000, or more than $250 per pound. The average car figures out to about $4 per pound. We still maintain over 300 foreign bases, and singlehan­dedly pay for the majority of our NATO alliP.!':. Why not require thP.ir economic parity with the U.S. be matched with parity in terms of providing the West's defense? 
"The international economic community, of which the United States is more and more an integral part, has demanded decisive action of us and we have failed them." 
Similarly, to declare all safety net programs such as Social Security, Medicare, and food stamps untouch­able does little but breed waste and excess. By no means should fiscal aus­terity come at the expense of the truly needy; indeed, government help for them should be increased whenever possible. But why not examine these various programs to see if any potential savings exist; such a move is in no way analogous with eliminating Social Se-curity cost of living increases, etc. Already strained Social Security, for example, may break in the coming decades as the baby boomers retire and fewer workers will exist to pay into their deserved benefits. Why not care­fully study if some fundamental restructuring of the program can both meet the looming problems and do it cost efficiently? 


And finally, to declare "I will never raise taxes" as George Bush does today is simply not rational. Does he truly believe that between now and 1992 the current tax system may not need ex­panding? Given the aforementioned trend of growing government spending, such a claim is ludicrous. Taxes could be shifted to place a larger burden on consumer spending (e.g. increase ex­cise taxes or develop a value-added sales tax), thereby also easing the other ~win deficit, the trade deficit. 
These above suggestions do not re­quire a doctorate in economics to rec­ognize their plausibility, just a good dose of levelheaded common sense free of rhetoric. Unfortunately, they all must first await passage of the budget accord. This package, weak though it is, must become law to calm the jittery markets and governments around the world. The international economic community, of which the United States is more and more an integral part, has demanded decisive action of us and we have failed them. Everyone will sur­vive this defeat, but next time we may not be as lucky. 
Matt Slaughter is a sophomore govern­ment/economics major and an Assis­tant Viewpoint Editor. 
Quote of the Day 
"Religion is a multicolored lantern. Everyone looks through a particular color, but the candle Is always there." 
Mohammed Nogulb 

Ihe Observer 
P.C. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The ObHrver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reltec1 the policies of the administration of either lnstnution. The News is reported u accurately and objectively as possible UnSJgned editorials represent the opinion ol the majority ol the Editorial Board. Commentaries. leiters and lhe Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members oltha school community, and the free expression ol varying opinions on campus. through leiters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ... ................................. Kevin Becker Blnlneu Mana(}tlr ............................. Brian Murray Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advet1ising Design Manager ........... David Culligan News Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski Advet1iting Manager .................. MeWnda Chapleau News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager...................... 1\Aellsaa Wamke Viewpoint Edltor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .......................... Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ..................................... Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Carimele Graphic Am Manager... .. .. Laura Stanton Photo Editor...................... . ............. Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1988 

Calvin and Hobbes 
88-la..D 11-IE ltRR\8\.£. 
n1E f:IERCESI \)INOSI\UR or 111UN\:1tR l\ZARD, 
~Ll. l-IE IS I'HtNI~ 11JNS Cf 
"NI<.b.t-lNOSt>..\JR\lS REX! 
130Nt.-CR\ls\1\NG MUn£. N\D ~1.\$<.. '31-lMJ> 1t£TI.I! 
TRISHA CHAMBERS accent writer 
Y
es, it is time once again for all those wonderful TV Christmas specials. And, though you may have watched them every year since you were four, have you really paid close attention to them? Here's your chance to find out-­and get yourself into the Christmas spirit as well. 
1. 
What did Hermie the Elf really want to be? 

2. 
What is the name of the Grinch's dog? 

3. 
Who is the girl in "Frosty the Snowman?" 

4. 
Why was the Bumble from "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" so mean? 

5. 
In "Santa Claus is Coming to Town" what made the reindeer fly? 

6. 
What is the name of the rabbit in "Frosty the Snowman?" 

7. 
What was Mrs. Claus' profession before she married Santa? 

8. 
Who sings the "Frosty the Snowman" song? 

9. 
In "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" where does the train with square wheels live? 

1
0. What is the name of the little girl in "The Grinch Who Stole Christmas?" 

11. 
Who is the voice of the snowman in "Rudolph the Red-No~ed Reindeer?" 


(12. In "Santa Claus is Coming to Town" who does \Santa teach how to walk? 
13. 
Who is the mountain climber in "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer?" 

14. 
Which Christmas special features the escapades of the Heat and the Cold Miser? 

15. 
What is the name of Rudolph's girlfriend? 


Answers: 
asspe[)"c;;I .:sneo !!lues e ln04l!IYI JeaA V . ."Pl 'sn!JaUJO:) UO>t"A"£1 '>t::lOIJeiYI JillU!IY\ il4..L"C::l 'saAJIJ"S"ll '04/Y\ no1 J;puo·oi 'SAO.L l!JS!W JO pue1s1 il4.L"6 'aluema AWW!IB "Ja4::l2illJ004::lS e·L 'smod -sn::lOH"9 'UJO::l ::l!6ew·c;; '4lilill aJos·p 'u<~Je}l"( 'xew·c:: 'lS!tuap e·1 


and Coming 
db 


2~¥No New Tale Tell Love and Rockets
Bill Watterson 

3. Get Over It Guadalcanal Diary 
4. 
Head Gone Astray The Soup Dragons 

5. 
Painted Desert 10,000 Maniacs 


< 6. Pump Up the Volume W.AtRIR-S 
-... . I Wanna Be a Flintstone Screaming Blue Mes­siahs . 
8: Marr!:}'"Me (Lie Lie) These Immortal Souls 
9. 
I Want Your (Hands on Me) Sinead O'Connor 

1
0. A Rush and a Push and the Land is Ours The Smiths 



nt 
page 8-9 




'You've Got a Friend' with Big Brothers/Sisters 
HEIDI SCHLUMPf accent writer 
M 
ost college students spend their Saturday afternoons recovering from Friday night, watching football, or maybe even studying. But Jennifer Diem spends most of her Sat­urday afternoons with Myrenda Chism, an eleven-year-old girl from South Bend. 
"We go bowling, Ice skating, miniature golfing, to the movies," said Diem, a senior RAIn Farley. "Once we even went strawberry picking." 
Diem and Chism are "sisters" matched by Big BrotherSIBig Sisters, a social service pro­gram that tries to address the needs of single parents by pro­viding adult friends for their children. 
"Friendship Is Important," said Diem, "That's the biggest thing. You need time to share and a little creativity. Flexibility Is also key." 
One of every five American families Is headed by a single parent. In fact, the number of single parent families has risen 80% In the past ten years. The children of those families often need guidance from adult friends to "make up" for the loss of a parent In their lives. 
Big BrotherSIBig Sisters of America matches children of single parent families with adult volunteers who provide companionship. Forty students from the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community have Little Brothers or Sisters, according to Scott Smith, president of Big BrotherSIBig Sisters of ND-SMC. Another 40 students have ap­plied for matches. 
Big BrotherSIBig Sisters of ND-SMC funds various activities for matches. This year's activi­ties Include a bowling night, a. movie night, a Christmas party, and maybe a trip to Chicago. "We try to provide interesting and novel things to do for matches," said Diem. 
Since the Chlsms do not have a phone, Diem usually contacts Myrenda's mother at her job to make arrangements for their outings. "Myrenda's mom works two jobs and often Isn't home when I go to pick her up." Diem said. 
Myrenda lives in a small, two story house on the southeast side of South Bend. She and her twin brother, Myron, usually watch television after school and on the weekends. The house smells like gasoline from a space heater next to the TV set. 
"We always do fun things," says Myrenda. She Is a cute little girl, with two braided pig­tails and a smile always on her face. She can be shy, but Is ususally energetic. Big Brot­herSIBig Sisters matches the children with adults based on Interests, backgrounds, per­sonalities and general compatl­
blllty. The match may take a few months because Big Brot­herSIBig Sisters screens and evaluates the children and the volunteers. A caseworker su­pervises the match, providing guidelines and making sure that the child's needs are met by the developing friendship. 
Diem learned about the pro­gram from girls in her dorm who were Big Sisters and volunteered at the end of her freshman year. "I saw It as a need in the community that could be filled by Notre Dame students," she said. She was matched at the beginning of her sophomore year and she and Myrenda have been "sisters" ever since. 
The Big BrotherSIBig Sisters program stresses a one-on­one, same-sex relationship. They do not have "cross­matches" (that Is, Big Sister with Little Brother). Myrenda's twin, Myron, is matched with one of Jennifer's friends. Jen­nifer says that the time she spends alone with Myrenda Is the most Important, but some­times she will plan an activity, usually miniature golf, with Myron and his Big Brother. "The boys usually win," says Diem, "but not by much." 
"The Big BrotherSIBig Sisters program does not replace a parent In any way," Jennifer said. "We are role models and friends, but not authority fig­ures. It's Important to be a 

Cowboy Church holds services in a barn 
I 
nside a livestock sales barn 
near Hermiston, Oregon, a 
young preacher in blue jeans, 
cowboy hat and cowboy boots 
greets visitors to the come-as­
you-are Cowboy Church, the 
second of Its kind in the United 
States. "This doesn't look like 
the House of God, but the 
overhead Is low," the Rev. John 
Wambeke says as his hour-long 
service begins. 
The Northwestern Livestock Commission's auction barn along Interstate 84 was picked because It would be a comfort­able place for the kind of people Wambeke Is trying to attract. While all are welcome, the church seems to attract Western-minded types --people who like horses. 
"There's a Jot of people who haven't been in a church for years and years because they feel uncomfortable; they have to dress up," Wambeke said. "A lot of cowboys wouldn't ever go unless they're getting married or buried." 
Wambeke, 25, was raised on a I0, 000-acre cattle ranch south of Calgary, in Alberta, Canada. He's lived in this country since 1984, and recently moved to Hermiston to look after the family cattle operations associated with Ron Baker's feedlot and new Jean-beef packing plant. 
Wambeke was raised a Cath­olic and had never intended to be a pastor, but while living In Fort Worth, Texas, he became Involved in the original Cowboy 
Church there. With rodeo cow­boy Jeff Copenhaver as pastor, services are held In an Indoor bull-riding arena in one of Texas' king-size bars. 
"I just went down to Fort Worth because I knew Jeff and wanted to go to an agriculture school. But I got more and more involved. I had never gone to a church I had felt more at ease (at) and grown more as a Christian." As for becoming a cowboy pastor, "It was my desire, and he worked with me." 
Other than the business In­terests of his family, Wambeke had no special reason for wan­ting to live In Hermiston, but It was suggested that Hermiston was a good central location for a cowboy outreach In the Pendleton, Ore/ Tri-Citles, Wash. area. All things consid­ered, it seemed a natural place to start the nation's second Cowboy Church; and Wambeke has found he enjoys living here. 
As the service begins, Wam­beke thumbs a well-worn Bible. His wife, Jordawn, stands on the dirt floor of the sales arena, preparing to project onto the wall the words to "Whispering Hope." Strumming guitars, Wambeke and fellow canadian Shawn Wells sing traditional hymns with a country flavor. 
Wambeke's service is non­denominational, and he speaks on this Sunday of a "no­nonsense kind of Christianity," in which you don't have to be in a cathedral to talk to God, nor do you have to pick a num­ber to have a chat. "You can catch him anytime," Wambeke says. 
Wambeke, who became a cowboy preacher in September, says he's beginning to get the hang of it. "You can't just go up to somebody and blast them. They have to see some­thing else, another example. There is a tremendous amount of pride and independence among Western people, and that holds cowboys back from reaching out to God. Cowboy Church challenges you, but you're free to be who you are." 
Wambeke has been married about three years to Jordawn, from Toronto, who is expecting their second child early next year. During the service, she shepherds the children off to the Buckaroo Club, held in an adjoining room. 
The Sunday service has been drawing 25 to 30 people each week. The Wambekes also have fellowship meetings at their home two days a week. 


good role model and expose 
them to things they wouldn't ordinarily be exposed to." 
Myrenda has decided she wants to attend Notre Dame and room with her best friend from Girl Scouts when she grows up. "''m proud of her aspirations," Jennifer said, "I hope she sticks with her dreams." 
Chism and Diem celebrated the two-year anniversary of their match on Oct. 4 this year. "Our relationship has really developed Into a friendship," said Diem. "I also think Myrenda has grown up a lot In the past two years. 

"It's been very worthwhile," she adds. "I've gamed a lot of Insight Into the life of an eleven-year-old girl but mostly I've made a friend." 
Since Diem Is from South Bend, she expects to stay In contact with Myrenda even If she moves away after gradua­tion. Lifelong friendships be­tween matches are not unus­ual. 
If you have a few hours a week to share with a child, contact president Scott Smith at 283-1164 or vice-president Jennifer Diem at 283-4248. 
-
Laugh those exam­time blues away 
G
rouchy because you're studying for finals too hard? Tired of spending all of your time In front of a type­writer? If you could use a study break the week before finals, check out what's happening at Theodore's. 
Wednesday night at 9:30 the Student Union Board Is presenting another Nightclub Night. After the success of magician Bob Garner on November I4, Wednesday's show will feature three of the circuit's brightest rising comedians: maglcocomedlan Will Diedrich, 'Big' Brian Hol­lingsworth and local funny man Steven Kimbrough. 
Headliner, Kimbrough, performs his trade three or four times a week. making regular stops at Chicago clubs. Born in Chicago, but raised In South Bend, he currently manages comics for the Center Street Blues Cafe. "Being raised In the ar~, I like being involved with various facets of com­edy around here," Kimbrough said in a recent Interview. 
In addition to his work at local clubs, Kimbrough plays various private party engage­

ments and charity functions, 
and joins ZIP I 04's Bobby 
Rivers on the air Tuesday 
mornings between 8 and 9. 
He also has been opening 
for national acts such as 
Sam Kinlson and Kenny G. 
Kimbrough Is no stranger 

to the college scene either, 
having done shows at Saint 
Mary's, I.U.S.B. and an 
opening bit for the AT&T 
Record-a-Tune event at the 
Senior Alumni Club last 
month. 
While telling us about the show, Steven had a few words about the credentials of his Wednesday night cohorts. "The emcee for the night, Will Diedrich, has done a lot of college work. He's 25 and still hasn't graduated. The feature act, Brian Hollingsworth, Is big. So big, In fact, that he's had some problems with a few of his performances -people keep throwing harpoons up on stage." 
All kidding aside, Kimbrough confided, "I like to use my humor to make people feel good." Not a bad sentiment especially around finals time. 
.... 
-
r-­
1 
I 
Wednesday, December 9, 1987
page 10 The Observer 


Sports Briefs 
Broomball Tournament sign-ups will be held today and tomorrow in the SUB office, second floor LaFortune. The tournament for the seven-player teams will be held during next semester's Winterfest. -The Observer 
The women's softball team will have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Farley's Middleroom for anyone interest in joining. If you can't attend, contact Barb at 4290 or Terri at 1260. -The Observer 
The ski team will hold a mandatory meeting for all those involved in any of its functions tonight at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. Bring your insurance and checkbooks. Questions call Christopher (234-6718), J.P. (271-8082), Maureen (271-0654) or Laurie (2656). -The Observer 
The Little Big Men won the championship in the first annual 5-10 and Under Fightin' Irish Classic. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 

Has John McEnroe finally found a profession that suits him? Has Ivan Lendl changed his personality--for the better? 
IU survives Vandy scare, 
63-61 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Keith Smart, removed from the start­ing unit and delegated to bench duty for most of the night, scored two key baskets in the final minutes to give No. 6 In­diana a 63-61 victory over Van­derbilt in college basketball Tuesday. 
Vanderbilt, which upset then-top ranked North Carolina on Saturday, had fought back from a 16-point first-half deficit to take its only lead of the night at 59-58 on two Barry Goheen free throws with 4:48left. Cen­ter Will Perdue, who led all scorers with 27 points, sparked the comeback with 15 in the second-half. 
n.oe....Notnt Deme office, located on the third floor of LaFonune Stu­dint Centw, ~clualfled ectw.tlling from 10 Lift. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The oe....Selnt u.ys office, located on the third floor of H-uga' Collge Cent•, accepta c'-'fteds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next~ clualfledsls3 p.m. All clualfleds must
Classifieds be pntpa6d, el~ In peqon or by mall. The ch.rge Is 10 centa per five ~perday. 
NOTICES ·Please nodce- Looking for your own room next semes­ter? Need 1-3 roommates for house, $100·$1251no plus utilities. Call 271­0758.  LEATHER BASKETBALLS-WILSON "JEr'-NEVER USEDII $25 -x3692 COUCH FOR SALE COUCH FOR SALE  DOME-OPOLV The gift for alumni who ha.va avery­thing  JAZZ. CLASSESIll JAZZ CLASSES!!!  Althla-Babe Your fellow Pebble Beachers are going to miss you next semester! I want to be youllllll  
That today is Kim Nugent'• 19th birthday. The first personal in each sec­lion is dedicated to her.  APARTMENT FOR SUBLET 1 or 2 female roommates needed for spring se­mester call 288-2425  GOOD CONDITION CALL 2201 ROSSIGNOL STS 180cm with MARKER M40's $135 272-8813  DOME-OPOLV  JAZZ CLASSESIII SIGN UPS IN THE STUDENT GOVT. OFFICE DEC 10..11 TEACHER FROM JO ANN BRINES SCHOOL OF DANCE-ONL V 40  Please remember we are all victims of the party even in Londonl Salety before funl Come back to us soon Ill Ill  
ADOPTION: Loving couple, phyak:iar>j:lsychologist, deeply wishes to adopt newborn. Welcoming warm family, love, opportunities! Expenses paid. Le­gal, confidentiaL Call Ellie or Alan collect 212-724-7942. TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997  ROOM FOR RENT: NEW ROOM IN RECENTLY RENOVATED HOUSE, GREAT SPACE WI LOTS OF WIN­DOWS, MINI BLINDS, CARPET, ETC. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS, MOVE IN IMMED., GREAT HOUSEl CALL Ml· CHAEL 239·5663 2 BEDRM APT $250 ¢ E 288·7760  WATERBED-HEATED $75.00 CHRIS 234-7156 HELPIII MUST SELL PLANE TICKETS FOR 2ND SEM. PIEDMONT SUPER SAVERS BETWEEN NEWARK,N.J., AND SOUTH BEND. FOR DETAILS CALL JOE 3804  RIGHT TO LIFE MASS RIGHT TO LIFE MASS Thurs. Dec. 10 4:30 ALUMNI HALL Fr. Leveille, celebrant ALL WELCOME ATTENTION:  SPACES $9.00 FIRST MONTH HEVII ANNE HART HAPPY BIRTHDAY Hope thla Ia the happiest birthday ever. Wlah we were there to celebrate with you. Much Love, Mom, Dad & Suun  Kim N. Are you ready for a birthday present you'll never forget? ·Your well endowed love slave  
- Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 TYPING 277-8131 or 237-1949  1to3 male Housemates needed next se· master SAFE nbhdl LOW rentl287·0753 Turtle Creek Townhouse needs 1 male roommate. $15(}tnonth e utilities. Fur­nished. Call Dan 271-0804. LOVELY LARGE FURNISHED HOME, 1034 ALLEN ST., roR RENT. '88-'89 SCHOOL YEAR. PREFER GRAD STU­DENTS, 5 STUDENTS MAX. 232-2436.  [ TICKETS We regret to inform you that tickets lor "A Co-ed Slumber Party with Kim" are no longer availible. For Sale Two Season Basketball Tickets, Bleachers Sec. 116, Face Value. Call Marie 239· 7668.  All Personal ilems not claimed at lhe Pasadena Palace by midnight December 13 will be auctioned off. Please call to claim. Alng... Ring "John, this is Kim, I just threw up in the sink. What do I do?" Well, Kim let's have a repeat perfor­mance on your B-day. -JB  Kim, I know what happened the 'Barna weekend. Do you? -John Ride needed lo ST. LOUIS for christmas break. Call Matt x2318  I need a ride to U of !-Champaign, II. for break. Call Babs 3736 NEED RIDE TO PURDUE CHORAL SHOW FRIDAY GREG 1562 DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO FLORIDA FOR X-MAS BREAK? Will share ex· penses. Please call Kevin x1368.  
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL IIIRS. COKER, 233-7009. FRIDAY, DEC. 11, IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER BEFORE BREAK. THE DEADLINE FOR CLASSIFIEDS  WANTED: Roommate to share TURTLE CREEK APT.for second semester call Beth at 277 • 7065 WANTED  FOR SALE: 40 COTTON BOWL TICK· ETS, TOGETHER ON 30-VARD LINE. CALL RAY (814) 237-5204. Airplane Ticket to San Francisco: leaves 1216: call 3301.  Casablanca Lives. "Dancing" is only a memory. My heart is In your clenched fist. Tell me you love me and I'll ride off into the sunset.  Happy 22nd Anne F. I You're not only as old as dirt, bul you are dirtl Guess who? CHRISTMAS BAZAAR CHRISTMAS BAZAAR SMC CHRISTMAS BAZAAR LEMANS LOBBY 10·4  REVENGE IS SO SWEETII CONGRATULATIONS, FARLEV-­NVA VOLLEYBALL CHAMPSI KEN FISCHER 1111 For a blind date, you've got great eyesl!! Thanx for a fun time at Lyons SVR. Renee  
FOR THAT ISSUE IS 3 PM THURSDAY, -DEC. 10.  Looking for tall, well-built male model to escort Kim N. on birthday date tonight For more info call 2240. Short boys need not apply  COTTON BOWL ·50 yd. ln. 8 at $1 00 each. Call or LM lor Greg at (713) 332­8281.  :r~-;;,·_···;;~~~t;;;;~:~--~~i~ii''j;~~k:··j"~~~id really' like to get to know yal ·Fisher's Fav Fan  MONDAY 12/7-FRIDAV 1211  CAMPUSVIEW APT. FOR RENT. SECOND SEMESTER. (FEMALE). IF INTERESTED CALL 283·3958 OR 271­0952  
-..  \ LOST/FOUND FOUND: Frederick's of Hollywood edible underwear with birthday card addressed IO Kim N. to the person who TOOK THE WRONG COAT at SR BAR on WEDNESDAY: ~ has a name in the back and hunting gloves in the pocket. Please call x3948. LOST: A TUXEDO JACKET (believe It or not) in the basement of ~afortune,by the automatic teller late SATU ADA V PLEASE if you have it, or If you saw someone take it or even if you just saw it CALL STEVE AT x-3068. I will be very grateful. PLEASE CALL F5 LOST AT FLANNER ALL-HALL: CANON SURE SHOT CAMERA WNAME ON BOTTOM. F5 IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL FRANK AT 1424.REWARDI  I need 2 riders to Northeast Colorado for Christmas Break Call Chris 1008 NEED RIDERS Central NJ Dec 18 AM call 2955 NEED A RIDE TO HOUSTON OR DAL­LAS, OR ANYWHERE CLOSEBV OVER BREAK. CALL PATTI £2966. RIDERS NEEDED 1212Qo87 Driving to Seattle via 1-80 or 1-90. Need riders for all or part of the way. x3800 ask for Chas. NEED RIDE TO NORTH NEW JERSEY FOR X-MAS BREAK. Can leave Friday the 18th. Willing to share expenses. Gall Greg ·1663. NEED CASH? I'll buy your baseball and football cards and other sports memoribilia, including programs, year· books, and photos. Call170 1 for the best money for your collectibles.  PERSONALS If's Kim "Bedaplna" Nugent's 19th birthday today. Call 2240 and wish her a happy birthday. -"F" Anderson OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. We're getting closer, MAUREEN KELLV, to the end of the top 10 running jokes from Ft. Lauderdale: 4. Bringing bread lor the guards at the fish place. 3. Blowing up poor, helpless animals (with Pepsi). GOING TO NEW JERSEY? For Sale­Cheap, One way or Round Trip ticket from Soulh Bend to Newark. Call Bob at x1521.  DOES ANYONE KNOW WHERE I CAN BUY A T-SHIRT WITH THE NOTRE DAME HEISMAN AWARD WINNERS LISTED ON THE BACK? CALL 2995 IF YOU DO DOES ANYONE HAVE A TAPE OF THE NOOC BB GAME FROM LAST YEAR? IF YOU DO, CALL 2995. I'D LIKE TO TAPE YOUR COPY. Rich, Thanks for a great weekend in Chi· town and see ya· Saturday! Good luck with my parents. Love, Deb SOPHOMORES SKI TRIP SIGN-UPS NOW CLASS OFFICE, STUDENT CENTER $25.00 DEPOSIT 2 ·4 P.M. TIL FRI. 11TH •••• DON'T MISS IT ...... NEED RIDE to NEW ENGLAND AREA for x-mas (I live in VT, but If you can get me to  .... SOPHOMORES •••• Looking for excitement? Ski Trip to Boyne Mt. Jan 22-241$150 signup this week flyers in the office Nightclub Night Thurs at Thaodores doors open 8:30 show at 9:15 fun, food, entertainment Dinner at Bamabya Thurs night at 6:30 $4 all you can eat bring your friends Chrlatmaa Study Break Saturday, Dec 12 Ubrary Lounge Bpm-9:30 movies, hot cocoa & cookies CMV-5 Thanks for be1ng a "dream date" RIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURGH FOR BREAK; CAN LEAVE ANYTIME THURS. OR FRL;CALL SUSIE (£2531) OR LEAVE A MESSAGE AT £2537 NEEDED: COTTON BOWL TIX Call  The lelt·kiss rule was in effect, when her lips did meef lhe brick. For on her little fondue skewer, the strawberries did not stick. He pleaded his innocence, as he felt un­justly accused. Vet his partners in per­sonals could be but amused. His second· hand guilt was guilt still, was it nol? So here's your own little quip, dear Mr. Turkey Trot. Kiml In honor of your birthday they got a Glee Club suggestion box II For Sale Cheap: 2 Cotton Bowl Tickets -What a Bargain! Call Joe M. at 1213 KIM, on your 19th BIRTHDAY,we lhink of the laugh, the nod, and SYRing with other people's scopes. Love, MLBKKESL. 'tis true,my FAWNING DOMETTE, 30 years is much loo long for two restless hearts to waitPerhaps there is still but a chance that  
LOST: Small gold antique pin with blue  RIDE  NEEDED TO  COTTON  BOWL  MASS, CT, OR NH, I'd be happyll)  Lynn, 271-0585  our paths may cross in the nearest tu­ture.(lf not, I still think  
stones, in the computer center (I think). If you lound it, please call Eileen at 271­ FOR SALE  FROM CHICAGO.SOUTH BEND AREA. Call Ann at 284-5335.  Will share gas and expenses--I can leave whenever after WED.  you'd make a great nun I) Love 'T'  
0952. Thanks.  call AOS 1284  Call KIM NUGENT x2240 to wish her a  Happy Birthday Glngarl  
XMAS GLAMOUR. Give that special  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  Keep an eye out for your picture!  
LOST: A gold Irish "friendship" ring some­ FOR SALE: Front row tickets for "The  guy the best gift of all -yourself -lin a  Have a great dayl  
where between the library and B.P. on  Frosty Frolic with Kim" $200 per ticket.  glamour portrait. Pictures by nation­ Merry X-Mas to Room 245 Alumni  Stanford Hall sends its congratulations  Love,  
Friday, the 4th. Extremely important---if  ally published modal photographer.  It's been a great semester, you guys lend  to Heisman winner Tim Brown.  Tine & G.C.  
found call Janette at £1364.  ·FOR SALE- Joe Ringer. 28Hl613.  us stuff, we give you beer. You guys all  
·GENUINE HEINTZ PUPPIES­ gol something at the dance because of  
LOSTIIIIIII--silver  necklace  with  small  Choose now, we will hold them unf/1 the  5  WAYS  OF  OVERCOMING  FLAC­ my decorating skills, we give you beer.  CUBI, YOU ARE HYPNOTIZED AND 10  
pink,  white  and  blue  bird  orna­ holidays  CIDITY 1 )Use the phone 2)But not too  You guys win the door decor price, and  POUNDS  UNDERWEIGHT  TO  THE  MAN  THEY  
ments .... lost somewhere on north quad (btwn Lewis and D2)1ate Sat. nite ..iffound  Call PETE at 239-5603 or 234·7429  much 3)Take a chance 4)0ne on one once in awhile 5)Verbalize  we still give you beer. How 'bout some Moisan's in our stockings? Across The  LOVE,VOUR FAVORITE LONG DIS­TANCE BUDDIE I P.S. GIVE SOMEONE  CALL... ESPOFRITO (or sometimes he goes by 'sheep')  
please call x1055 Jim.  Hall Distributors Inc. (A W&M Subsidiary)  A CALL TODAVII  1 wish I was 15 againlll Then I would  
Christmas Trees for Dorm Rooms II Ser­ DOME-OPOLV  have a chance with you -jail bait  
gio's Sun God Christmas Village now of·  a great  Merry Christmas Bambi!  ••••• CANDVGRAMS •••••  
FOR RENT  lers artificial trees. Check out the 1 and 2 fool trees, perfect lor dorm rooms. Get  Chrlatmaa glftl  Sand that special someone a Walsh Can­dygraml  Happy B·day Kim, It could be worse...  
all your lights and decorations with a stu­dent discount, just show ID. Be sure to  DOME-OPOLV  FRIDAY, DEC. 11, IS THE LAST ISSUE  On sale Wed and Thurs at South Dining Hall  You could be celebrating your birthday standing in a parking place at Lake Lawn  
227 Sarin after the B-day bash we throw for Kim N. We'll be kicked out anyways.  see the Notre Dame tree II Sergio's Sun God Christmas Village 1919 South Mic­ Available now at ND-SMC Bookatoraa  OF THE OBSERVER. THE DEADLINE FOR CLASSIFIEDS FOR THAT ISSUE  Delivered Friday. ***** CANDYGRAMS •••u  and drinking sparkling grape juice. Love, John and Chris  
Just kidding Joe.  higan Slreet South Bend, IN 287-9283  IS THURSDAY, DEC. 10, AT 3 PM.  
- 

December 9, 1987 The Observer page 11 



Sports Wednesday 
Basketball Top 20 Football Top 20, 
AP Top Twenty AP Top Twenty The Top Twenty college football teams In The 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams In The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren-Associated Press poll, with first-place votes In paren-theses, this season's records and total points. Points theses, thta season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are ltallclzad. are Italicized. 
1. Oklahoma ( 4 7) 11-0-0 1,129 2. Mlami,Fia. (9) 11-0-0 1,088 3. Florida St. 10-1-0 1,018 
1. Kentucky (46) 3·0 1,090 4. Syracuse ( 1) 11-0-0 955 2. PtMsburgh (4) 2-0 928 5. Nebraska 10-1-0 926 3. Iowa (2) 6-0 902 6. Auburn 9-1-1 647 4. Artzone (2) 5-0 652 7. LSU 9·1·1 794 5. No. Carolina 4·1 833 8. Michigan St. 8·2-1 687 6. Indiana 2-1 760 9. So. Carolina 8-3-0 653 7. Wyomtng 3-0 674 10. UCLA 9-2-0 642 8 Syracuse 4-2 670 11. Oklahoma St. 9-2..() 509 9. Missouri (1) 2-0 656 12. Notre Dame 8-3..() 487 
10. Duke 3-D 565 13. Texas A&M 9-2-0 400 
11. 
Temple 1·0 564 14. Clemson 9-2-0 392 

12. 
Florida 4-1 483 15. Georgia 8-3-0 370 

13. 
Purdue 4-1 479 16. Southern Cal 8-3-0 296 

14. 
Georgetown 3-0 411 17. Tennessee 9-2-1 274 

15. 
Mtchigan 4-1 367 18. Iowa 9-3-0 165 


16. Oklahoma 3-0 301 19. Pittsburgh 8-3-0 131 17 UNLV 3-0 189 20. Penn State 8-3-0 96 18. Kansas 4-2 166 
19 Notre Dome 1-1 136 Others receiving votes: Indiana 45, Wyoming 34, 
20 MemphiS St. 2-0 93 Alabama 25, san Jose St. 17, Air Force 3, Arkansas 2, Eastern Michigan 2, Florida 1, Washington 1, West Virginia 1. 
AP Top Twenty 

NBA Standings
The Top Twenty college women's basketball teams In The Associated Press poll, with first-place Eaotern Conferencevoteoln parentheses, this season's records and total Atlantic Dlvlalonpoints. Points baaed on 20·19-18-17 etc. Notre w L Pet. GBDame opponents are Italicized. 
Boston 11 6 .647 Philadelphia 7 7 .500 2.5 New Vorl< 5 12 .294 6 
1. 
Tennessee (57) 3-D 1,272 Washington 4 12 .250 6.5 

2. 
Texaa (3) 5..() 1,212 New Jersey 2 13 .133 8 3. Auburn (4) 4·0 1,151 Central Dlvlolon 


4. 
Loulalana Tech 3-0 1,065 Detroit 11 5 .686 

5. 
Iowa 5..() 1,051 Chicago 12 6 .667 

6. 
Virginia 4-D 921 Atlanta 10 5 .667 .5 

7. 
Long Beach St. 2·1 877 Milwaukee 10 6 .625 1 

8. 
Mlsalaaippl 4..() 814 Indiana 10 7 .568 1.5 

9. 
Ohio Stale 3..() 745 Cleveland 6 8 .429 4 10. Rutgers 1·0 737 


11. 
Weal VIrginia 4-0 656 Wutem Conference 

12. 
Georgia 3-2 475 Mldweot Dlvlolon 

13. 
So. llllnoll 2-1 443 w L Pet. GB 

14. 
Duke 4..() 414 Dallas 9 5 .643 

15. 
Stanford 5..() 385 Denver 10 6 .625 

16. 
Waahlngton 3-1 271 Houston 10 7 .588 .5 

17. 
Vandarbltt 4-1 185 Utah 9 8 .529 1.5 

18. 
Southern Cal 1-2 166 San Antonio 8 6 .500 2 

19. 
UNLV 4-0 109 Sacramento 4 12 .250 6 

20. 
James Madloon 3-0 98 Peclllc Dlvlolon L.A. Laker& 11 5 .686 


Portland 11 6 .647 .5 Seattle 8 8 .500 3 Others receiving votes: Penn State 80, Maryland Phoenix 6 8 .429 4 48, Old Dominion 48, Syracuse 28, St. Joaeph's 26, L.A. Clippers 6 9 .400 4.5 
LSU 24, llllnola18. DePaul Ill, Nebraska&, Stephen Golden State 2 13 .133 8.5 
F. Austin 7, San Diego State 4, Houston 3, Colorado 3, Clemson 2, Holy Cross 1, New Mexico St. 1, Utah Tueodoy'o Reaulte
1. 
L.A. Lakers 96, New Jersey 81 New York 116, Washington 92 Detroit 127, Portland 117 
Indiana 103, Milwaukee 101 Houston 106, Sacramento 97
Wrestling Top 20 
Amaleur Wrutllng Newo Poll 
The top twenty wrestling teams In the Amoteur NBA Scorers Wreotllng Newo poll. Notre Dame's opponents In dual meets are hal/clzed. NBA Scoring Leedero 
G FG FT Pia. Avg. 

1
. Iowa State 3-0 Jordan,Chl. 17 198 158 556 32.7 

2. 
Iowa 5·0 Barkley, Phil. 13 131 100 370 28.5 

3. 
Penn State 4-0 Aguirre, Dall. 13 141 64 351 27 

4. 
Ohio Stale 3-D Drexler, Port. 16 169 80 420 26.3 

5. 
Arizona State 5-D Bird, Boa. 13127 71 337 25.9 


8. Edinboro Stale 4-0 Theus, Sacr. 13117 86 322 24.8 
7. 
Northern Iowa 2·1 Malone, Utah 16150 91 391 24.4 

8. 
No. Carolina 4·0 Ellis, Sea. 16 159 55 388 24.3 

9. 
Oklahoma 3-D Wilkins, AH. 12 104 72 282 23.5 

1
0. Wloconoln 1-D Thorpe, Sacr. 15130 92 352 23.5 

11. 
No. Corollna St. 4..() English, Denv. 16156 57 369 23.1 

12. 
Lock Haven 3-2 Davis, Phoe. 11 95 63 253 23 

13. 
Minnesota 2·1 Cummings, Milw. 13121 48 290 22.3 

14. 
Michigan 4-0 Floyd, G.S. 15 115 98 329 21.9 


75. Indiana 5·0 McDaniel, Sea. 14 133 39 308 21.9 
16. Notre Demo 3-1 Johnson, LaL 15 111 82 306 20.4 
77. Ohio State H M. Malone, Wash 15 90126 306 20.4 
18. 
Maryland 1·2 Danlley, Detr. 15 98 109 305 20.3 

19. 
Purdue 4·0 Ewing, N.Y. 16 132 61 325 20.3 

20. 
Nebraska 3·0 Person, Ind. 16 142 32 325 20.3 


Women's Basketball 
JAZZ CLASSES!! 

sign ups December 1l-12 In Student Government Office 
L.,_________
$9 lst month,_________. 

Sports Calendar Sports Lists 
Home games in CAPS 


MOST CONSECUTIVE 
Today 


COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Women's Basketball vs. OAKLAND 

WINNING SEASONS*
Thursday 

Louisville 43 seasons 
Men's Basketball vs. PRAIRIE VIEW 

U.C.L.A 39 seasons
A&M 
Wrestling at Miami (Ohio) 

St. John's 24 seasons 
North Carolina 23 seasons 
Marquette 22 seasons
Friday 

Hockey vs. DAYTON Indiana 1 7 seasons Syracuse 1 7 seasons DePaul 16 seasons 
Saturday 

Alabama 16 sea5ons 
Men's Basketball at DePaul 

Purdue 15 seasons 
Women's Basketball vs. ST. 
AMBROSE 
Hockey vs. DAYTON 
SMC Basketball vs. ST. JOSEPH 
(Rensselaer) 
NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE Adamo Dlvlalon 

•Division I througn 1986-87 season 
W L T GF GA Plo. Montreal 18 7 6 120 91 42 Source: NCAA and SFS Research Boston 17 11 2 115 105 36 Buffalo 10 13 4 94 114 24 Hartford 10 12 4 83 88 24 Quebec 11 14 1 97 109 23 !'•trick Dlvlafon 
Scoreboard 

N.Y. Islanders 17 8 1 113 82 35 New Jersey 14 9 4 93 87 32 Washington 12 13 2 96 86 26 Raaulta for Dec. 2 through Dec. 8 Woman Pittsburgh 10 11 5 94 101 25 Notre Dame over Stanford, 18-0 
Philadelphia 10 13 4 65 100 24 
Notre Dame over Air Foroa, 16-0 
N.Y. Rangers 9 14 3 96 103 21 

Basketball Notre Dame over Cal. State-Long Beach, 16­Man 0
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvlolon 

Notre Dame 69, Louisville 54 W L T GF GA Plo Notre Dame 74, Boston 49 WI'Htllnt 
Calgary 16 8 4 136 104 36 Woman 1Oth-place finish at Laa Vegas Invitational Edmonton 16 10 2 134 103 34 Wis.-Green Bay 69, Notre Dame 65 (45teams) 
Winnipeg 12 12 1 95 103 25 
Notre Dame 81, Brigham Young 69 
Vancouver 10 14 3 94 101 23 

Los Angeles 7 17 4 107 143 18 Norrlo Dlvlalon SwimMing 
Detroit 13 10 2 98 81 28 Hockey Man 
Toronto 11 14 2 109 110 24 Notre Dame 5, Michigan-Dearborn 3 Villanova 757.7, Notre Dame 727, Fordham 
Minnesota 10 13 4 96 111 24 

Michigan-Dearborn 6, Notre Dame 2 424, Boston College 396, eight others In Na­
15 98

Chicago 10 2 125 22 tional Catholic Championships
St. Louis 9 14 2 85 92 20 

Villanova 122, Notre Dame 95 Fencing Notre Dame 139.5, Fordham 75.5 Man W0111an Tueodey'o Reaulto 
Notre Dame over Stanford, 21-6 Boston College 837.5, Notre Dame 626,
Philadelphia 5, Boston 2 

Notre Dame over Air Force, 16-11 Fordham 518, Providence 380, 11 others in
Harnord 5, Quebec 4 

Notre Dame over Cal. State-Long Beach, 24-National Catholic Championahlps
Calgary 5, Washington 4 Montreal 3, N.Y. Islanders 2 3 Notre Dame 111, Fordham 1 04 Minnesota at Vancouver, late 
NHL Scorers NFL Standings ­
NHL Scoring Leadaro NATIONAL FOOTBALL .LEAGUE G AP1o. Plm. Gretzky, Edm. 25 44 69 10 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AMERICAN CONI'I!ItENCE
Savard, Chi. 14 39 53 31 Eoot 
E-.t
Lemieux, Pitt. 23 23 46 24 
w L T Pet. PF PA 
w L T Pet. PF PAMessier, Edm. 19 27 46 33 

x-Washlngton 9 3 0 .750 307 218 Indianapolis 7 5 0 .583 253 198Hawerchuk, Wpg. 14 30 44 20 
7 270

Dallas 5 0 .417 287 Buffalo 6 6 0 .500 229 272Goulet, Que. 16 27 43 12 Philadelphia 5 7 0 .417 272 318 Miami 6 6 0 .500 301 280P. Stasny, Que. 19 23 42 27 St. Louis 5 7 0 .417 288 309 N.Y. Jets 6 6 0 .500 280 260Naslund, Mtl. 12 30 42 4 
8 .333 216 266

N.Y. Giants 4 0 New England 5 7 0 .417 241 256Carson, LA 19 20 39 19 CentroI CentralRobitaille, LA 15 23 38 40 
Kurrl, Edm. 15 22 37 12 
2 0 .833 329 204

x-Chlcago 10 Cleveland 7 5 0 .583 309 185Smith, Mtl. 15 22 37 19 Minnesota 7 5 0 .583 285 278 Houston 7 5 I) .583 290 292
Simpson, Pitt· 18 17 35 40 
7 237

Green Bay 4 1 .375 205 Pittsburgh 7 5 0 .583 236 240Edm. 
Tampa Bay 4 8 0 .333 256 285 Cincinnati 4 8 0 .333 220 270Yzerman, Det. 18 16 34 4 
Detroit 2 10 0 .482 205 344 WillLafontaine. NYI 17 17 34 12 
Weot 

Denver 8 3 1 .706 314 243 y-San Francisco 10 2 0 .833 335 246 San Diego 8 4 0 .667 230 253 y-New Orleans 9 3 0 .750 324 255 seanle 7 5 0 .583 289 231 
284 9 185 

L.A. Rams 5 7 0 .417 263 L.A. Raiders 5 7 0 .417 271 243 
Atlanta 3 0 .250 338 Kansas City 2 10 0 .167 199 338 

Don't drink 

and drive
<"'"t:t DIC~ 
J'-p(IV£ 
A public service message from The Observer 

... 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 


Wednesday, December 9, 1987
The Observer
a e 12 

Oklahoma vs. Miami for No. 1 


Orange 
Associated Press 
Oklahoma is ranked No. 1 and Miami is No. 2 but not everyone is convinced that their Orange Bowl clash, the 23rd such game in the 52-year history of the Associated Press poll, will decide college foot­ball's national championship. 
Syracuse University Coach Dick MacPherson is among the dissenters. 
Only two teams have a shot at going 12-0--the Oklahoma­Miami winner and fourth­ranked Syracuse, which meets No. 6 Auburn, 9-1-1, in the Sugar Bowl. Third-ranked Florida State, 10-1 with a 26-25 loss to Miami the only blemish on its record, plays No. 5 Ne­braska, 10-1, in the Fiesta Bowl. 
"Oklahoma and Miami are playing a good opponent (each other), and so are we," Mac­Pherson said. "Any team that wins the Southeastern Confer­ence is a good opponent." 
Items 

continued from page 16 
Year after a nearly-fatal auto­mobile accident the previous August. Six, as in the number of over­time games the Notre Dame soccer team played this fall en route to a an outstanding 17-3-1 record. At one point the Irish were one of only two unde­feated teams in the nation, 
along ~ith Haryard. They up--1+:-**********'************tlc**********i­
set Indiana, which later would * * 
climb to the top spot in the na-* tion's soccer polls, but the Irish ! did not receive an invitation to * the NCAA Tournament. *
-
Seven, as in the seventh place * finish of the Irish men's cross-: country team at last month's * cross country NCAA Cham-* pionships. Senior Dan Garrett * finished sixth overall in the na-~ tion. Ironically, Notre Dame* did not win a regular season * invitational in 1987. * Eight, as in the eight days in ~ August which displayed the ~ true spirit of sport. The Notre ~ Dame campus was the setting E-for this summer's Special t Olympic Games for the men-~ 



hunt for recognition 
Miami completed its second consecutive 11-0 regular season by defeating South Carolina 20­16 Saturday night. Oklahoma, which finished 11-0 two weeks earlier, received 47 of 57 first­place votes and 1,129 of a pos­sible 1,140 points in Tuesday's final regular-season AP poll. 
Nine first-place votes and 1,088 points went to Miami, while Florida State remained third with 1,018 points. The other first-place ballot went to Syracuse, which received 955 points. 
Nebraska held onto fifth place with 926 points and Auburn remained No.6 with 847 points. 
MacPherson concedes there's nothing he can do about the Orange Bowl matchup and all the attendant hype--past, present and future. 
"If one of them is a dominat­ing factor, they deserve to be No.1," he said. "We'rethenext best game. The voters can see one game (Fiesta Bowl) at 1:30 (p.m., EST), one game (Sugar) at 3:30 and one game (Orange) at 8 and see who deserves to be No. 1." 
LSU, 9-1-1, stayed seventh with 794 points. South Carolina, LSU's Gator Bowl opponent, was the only other member of the Top Twenty in action over the weekend and their close loss to Miami dropped the Gamecocks, 8-3, from eighth place to ninth with 653 points. 
Michigan State, 8-2-1, moved up from ninth to eighth with 687 points and UCLA, 9-2, com­pleted the Top Ten, just like a week ago, with 642 points. 


GRAND 

OPENING! 
Fast service, outstanding quality, and low, low prices! 

• 
•
•
• 
18187 State Road 23 1~cross from Corktowne Liquors 271-0398 
• M-F Sat Sun• /.30am-10pm 9am-6pm Noon-5pm
• 
KJMJ Yle • •  * * * !*  
*  
*  

THIS AD'S for You! * 
!
* 


HAPPY 18th!! * 
Love, !* From deep in * the heart of * Texas !
*
* 
* 


Melvin Bratton (5) scores for the Miami Hurricanes, who will battle Oklahoma for college football's "national championship," although Syracuse will have something to say about that. The Orangemen could finish undefeated. 

SURPRISE! HELLO VIDUCICH! 
CHEERS & GOOD LUCK ON -YOUR FINALS. YOUR EVER ADORING AND LOVING. 
"VID-TEAM" 
NEED A BIRTHDAY CAKE 
(or) FRESH BAKED GOODS? The Notre Dame Student Cake Service can help you. 
In cooperation with the Country Bake Shop of Simply fill out the below order form South Bend, we'll deliver fresh baked goods & mail to: 
right to your door. P.(); Box 191 N.D., ln. 46556
Please make check payable to N.D. Student Cake 
{don't use campus mail)
Service and be sure to Include the message you want 
call 2B3·2359 today!
on the cake. 
Delivery Date  Sender's Name  
·•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  & Phone ....................................  
Recipient's Name & Address  

,................................................................. 
Cakes:sizes: B"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.0(1 chocolate half sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(B" only) CHEESECAKES(B"): plain ~10.50 icing: white wl fruit $12·50 --chocolate(add 1.50) BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen 
PARTY KIT: $2.50-includes plates Doughnuts: Variety Box 
forks, napkins, candles, $4.50 per dozen & a knife 
tally and physically handi-c*********************************~ 
capped. A nationally televised audience saw a festive and spectacular opening session, but the thousands of local and student volunteers saw the love and innocent determination which showed us all that it just takes a lot of heart. 
Nine, as in the number of matches the Notre Dame vol­leyball team lost en route to its second-consecutive 30-win season. Under head coach Art Lambert, the Irish posted a 30-9 mark and won the North Star Conference championship for the second straight year. Due to key losses to Top 20 teams, however, Notre Dame failed in its quest for a first-ever NCAA Tournament appearance. 
Ten, as in the ten rounds it took for a champion to be crowned in the campus-wide Bookstore Basketball XVI tournament. The month-long tournament drew 662 teams, the largest field ever. 'Da Brot­hers of Manhood, led by Notre Dame basketball co-captain Donald Royal and Irish football star Tim Brown, captured the title after a month of games in every weather condi­
"WHATEVER THE MIND CAN CONCEIVE, THE BODY CAN ACHIEVE" 
seminars by GARY CONRAD to teach you the secrets of SELF-HYPNOSIS 
WEDNESDAY,DECEMBER9 4pm GENERAL SELF­HYPNOSIS 
6pm LOSE WEIGHT ­DON'T FEEL HUNGRY 
8pm ACE THAT EXAM­DO BETTER ON FINALS 

NOTRE DAME ROOM-2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE SPONSORED BY SUB 
tion possible. 'Uijj========================;;;;;a;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;iiiii;;;;;;;;;;:==;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;a;;jWJJ 
... 
Wednesday, December 9, 1987 
The Observer page 13 
Saint Mary's basketball falls to Michigan, Loyola 



PIZZA 
BIG "V" SUPER SPECIAL 

GET 2 EXTRA LARGE PIZZAS PLUS 2 LITER BOTTLE OF COKE FOR $13.99 (PLUS TAX AND DELIVERY) YOUR CHOICE OF ANY ONE SINGLE TOPPING AND SECOND PIZZA WITH TWO TOPPINGS OF YOUR CHOICE. 
Not valid in combination with any other offers. Valid at participating locations. EXPIRES 11.5-87 
TAKE A STUDY BREAK YOO GEEK!! , GO TO NIGHTCLUB NIGHT AT THEODORE'S WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 9 9:30PM 
FEATURING THREE OF THE HOTTEST YOUNG COMEDIANS: 
WILL DIEDRICH BRIAN HOLLINGSWORTH STEVEN KIMBROUGH 
Sly hands-which is why A Big Man with a big heart This HOOSIER has been 
all the girls sit in the who will hit you with a voted "THE FUNNIEST front row. Too smooth Big, Big punch line! A man MAN IN INDIANA." to be funny, and funny whose income has been What? How can anyone 
enough to be smooth. seriously supplemented by the from Indiana be funny? Will's gonna catch you save the whales foundation! Come out to Theodore's off guard! and check him out! 
CHECK OUT OUR FULL FOOD & DRINK BAR 
-great for a late night snack 
SPONSORED BY SOB 


But once again, the Belles were unable to keep up with the competition's shooting ability in the second half as Michigan took the eight-point victory. 
Julie Radke led the Saint Mary's scoring with 22 followed by Linda Garrett who had 10 points. 
"We simply need to learn to adjust without our floor leader and take control with more con­sistent play in our overall per­formance." said Wood. 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
ball in the basket. The Terriers made only 34 percent of their shots from the field for the game, with Irving, who had been averaging 22 points a game, leading the slump with 3-of-12 shooting. 
Meanwhile, the Irish were able to correct their shooting problems in the second half. After making 35 percent of their field goals in the first half, the Irish responded with a 54 percent total in the second half. 
Once again Rivers led all scorers with 19 points, includ­ing 8-of-9 shooting from the charity stripe. Voce added 16 points and nine rebounds in just 23 minutes of play, and Robin­son collected 12 of his 16 rebounds in the first half. 
The rebounds hid Robinson's 3-of-10 shooting performance, with many of the misses com­ing on short jumpers and layups. 
"He needs to get into an of­fensive flow where he can read first, then shoot," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps of Robinson. "He's got ability to score, but it's a little different than high school where you can just turn and shoot it. 
"But 16 rebounds is a lot of rebounds, and that's good for him," Phelps added. 
The game opened with slam dunks by each team, but the first true field goal wasn't scored until Boston guard Jeff Timberlake hit a short jumper with 13: 57 remaining in the half. 
The Terriers held the lead early on when Jones was left all alone after the opening tip, re­sulting in an opening slam. The senior forward ended up leading the Terriers with 14 points and eight rebounds, just two boards shy of his third con­secutive double-double. 
Stevenson responded with a slam of his own off a fast break started by Rivers. But two free throws by Jones and Timber­lake's field goal gave the Ter­riers an early 6-2 lead. 
A  three-pointer  by  Rivers  
and  a  jumper by  Stevenson,  
who  also  finished  in  double  

figues with 10, gave Notre Dame a lead which it would never relinquish. The Irish out­scored the Terriers 33-11 to make the score 33-20 Irish before Boston closed the gap to nine at the half. 
Forward Steve Nicgorski woke up the JACC crowd when he entered the game with 2:43 to play. With birthday-boy Sean Connor trying to feed the senior walk-on almost every time down the court, Nicgorski fi­nally made it to the charity stripe on a shooting foul. The students stood with one out­stretched arm as Nicgorski made both of his "offerings." 

By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost twice last week to drop their record to 2-3. 
Against Loyola University December 2, the Belles took an early 13-6lead but were quickly passed by as Loyola displayed excellent perimeter shooting, especially from three-point range. Loyola went on to take 
\~ 

a 49-34 halftime lead. 
"Our girls played fairly well but they (Loyola) had excellent shooting," said Saint Mary's head coach Marvin Wood. "The score was 64-53 with eight minutes to go and that is the closest we got in the second half." 
Saint Mary's was unable to keep up with Loyola's consis­tent shooting, and was defeated 92-57. 
. ,,llfAN-UP THI~ WEEK. S1u~~~r ).1lJ$1 sf. PAl[/ sy 
~-~" CfFrE ~f =waa-z=oo-~· ~~ '/HL~f\7.. }:00-4:00 7 "1b"'fAL COJT I~ $160 
IJICWOEf: 
'fRAN~ i4. TION, LOO~fNfA 1 UP!" TICJ<.ETj RX F/{t., ~Ar.17UN., Jo1EAL5, R<E£ ~KI LEtfCN tl-NAf!At.. Rv,v; Kt1Y-5ti't'E.(j /l.ECE!V€ $C.O (X!PIT AT7/IE L{;{ME. 
ADWORKS 
The leading scorer for the Belles was Tammye Radke with 18 points followed by her sister Julie, who had 11. 
"Loyola just shot better than 60 percent against us," said Wood. "We shot more and had fewer turnovers but their great perimeter shots and percentage got us." 
0n December 5, the Belles traveled to the University of Michigan.


lfllllllllll------1111111!!! 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
\ 
11CK!T'8 AYAI.ABI.J! AT T1t!: 0\'IC AUDI'TOftiWWI BOX OPPI(Z. POQHTWII'tDI (NilZS AND NORTH 1JI..I..AQE Ml.l.). IKIP!JII IOUtCDI (!l.JUWft). MD J.R.'I (LA 
""""'~ 
OWIQ!tn'PtfOf't! I..Zit-ZI4·tll0 
Because of an injury, Tammye Radke was unable to play. The Belles were could not overcome that disadvantage and lost, 71-63. 
"Tammye is our floor leader and without her we had no chance to put a game plan to­gether," said Wood. 
The score was tied much of the game, but the Belles led 32­27 at the half. The five-point lead was the largest margin of the half. 


page 14 Wednesday, December 9, 1987
The Observer 

Morrissey, Stanford open lnterhall hockey with wins 
By CHRIS PAULISON Sports Writer 
With the first round games complete, the quest for the In­terhall hockey crown is now un­derway. 
Grace, Morrissey, and St.Ed1Ioly Cross skated to vic­tories in the first round, ear­ning spots atop the league's Gold division. In the league's Blue division, victors Stanford, Sorin, and Alumni iced a three­citement early in the second half as they closed the gap to 5-2. However, Morrissey team captain Tim O'Brien and cen­ter Tim Hartigan provided sparks with two goals apiece and the victory was sealed. "We looked decent, consider­ing this was our first time out as a team," said Chris Hasbrook, who also scored a goal for the Manorites. "WP still need to work on fundamen­tals if we're to beat the better 
Captain Galis gave credit to his sophomore goaltender, Gary Davis. "Simply put, Davis is the key to our season. If he continues to play as well as he did tonight, this Grace team should prove to be very successful." 
Grace's success was put to the test again last night as they faced off with Morrissey. 
Stanford's 7-0 drubbing of Fisher represented the first Tankersley, tended the twines with perfection. 

By defeating Zahm 6-3, Sorin became victorious for the first time in over two seasons. Otter team captain, defenseman Matt Beuerlein, explained what this victory meant for his team. 
"This year's team is com­prised of an improving group of upperclassmen. We have been playing together for a few seasons now, and I think this is the year we make a name for ourselves." 
In other first round action, St.Ed1Ioly Cross skated past Flanner 4-2. Alumni downed Pangborn, 4-1, in the first clash for both teams. 
Dillon and Cavanaugh remained idle through first­round play. Both of these teams must wait until after Christmas break to make their season debuts on the ice. 
way tie in their race. 
Most impressive of the three Gold division games was the 10­3 offensive explosion by Mor­rissey over Keenan. The pow­erful Manorites jumped to an early 4-0 lead they never gave up. Keenan provided some ex-
Smith, Parker trad~ed to AL; both leagues talk expansion
Associated Press The Red Sox also got what they wanted, a major closer in 
DALLAS -Dave Parker and Smith. Lee Smith moved to new teams Smith is the only NL pitcher while baseball talked at the with 30 or more saves in four winter meetings Tuesday straight years, a streak he abou~ m~ving to new towns and maintained last season with 36­startmg mterleague play. -compared to a major league-
During a day of Texas-style low of 16 for the entire Red Sox dealing that would have made staff. even J.R. Ewing proud, Rafael Nipper was 11-12, his third Ramirez also got swapped and straight losing year with 12 more deal_s seemed on the way. l?sses. Schiraldi was 8-5 with 
ExpansiOn may not be closer, s1x saves and a 4.41 ERA, and 
but the subject moved toward its first full-scale debate in 10 years. It was discussed at sep­
GIVE THE GIFT arate league meetings Tuesday and will be presented a joint OF A meeting of owners Wednesday, marking the most serious study SUNTAN! since Toronto and Seattle were added to the American League 
in 1977. Gift certificates "lnterleague play is prob­
Available

ably the key," said Bill Giles, president of the Philadelphia Phillies and a member of the long-range planning commit­tee. 
Giles, American League 
Specials:

President Dr. Bobby Brown and National League President 10 Bed visits for $39.00 Bart Giamatti agreed that any 
5 Booth visits for $12.50

expansion would mean new teams in each league. 
Combo of 3 Bed & 3 Booth for $19.50 

"I don't see any league em­barking on an . individual 2n-1026 JMSPLAZA 
4609 Grape RL Milllanka
basis," Brown said. 
8 

The real interleague action 
SOUTH OF UNIVERSITY 

TAN--HAWAIIAN

Tuesday sent two long-time 
PARK MALL 
sun sam

dominant players in the NL to the AL. 

teams in the league." 
In the battle between peren­nial powerhouses, Grace was able to escape with a 3-2 defeat of Off-Campus. Team captain Mike Galis shared scoring honors for Grace with his bro­ther, Ed Galis, and forward Steve Bishop. 
shutout of the young season. The Studs dominated the con­test from the opening whistle, scoring six goals in the first twenty minutes. Forward John Welch combined with fresh­man Dave Lorelli, to make the red light appear four times. Stanford goalie, junior Hardie 
. only he and Wes Gardner got 
saves for Boston last season. 
"We've given up someone 
who has been as good a pitcher 
as there has been in the last 
four years, but we had to do 
something with our staff," new 
Cubs general manager Jim 
Frey said. 
Bill Wood, promoted to Hous­
ton's general manager on Mon­
day, made his first deal and 
filled the Astros' shortstop hole 
with Ramirez. 

I I I ALUMNI ;~~::;,:,:~,,,,~,:~-w -SENIOR'::::::::~=~:::;:;~~~·..,.::· 








i!:CLUB 
WEDNESDAY 

50~ DRAFT FUZZY NAVELS 15¢ 

THURSDAY 
504'-DRAFT ~TEQUILA SUNRISE 75' 
~~FR\DAY LUNCH 
-OF TWI! SEtM:STER­
WHEN IT'STIMETO RELAX, OPEN NOON·2pm 21 f.U REQ\) 
Parker, a six-time All-Star, was traded by Cincinnati to Oakland for promising pitchers Jose Rijo and Tim Birtsas. Smith, one of the premier relievers in the game, was traded by the Chicago Cubs to Boston for pitchers Al Nipper and Calvin Schiraldi. 
"You don't replace a Dave Parker, but we felt we need some more pitchers," Reds manager Pete Rose said. 
"We think he's going to give us a lot of pop, particularly from the left side," Oakland general manager Sandy Alder­son said. 
Parker, 37, hit 26 home runs with 97 RBI last season but batted a career-low .253. He has 
a .297 lifetime average with 273 homers and 1,190 RBI. 
Rijo, 22, was 2-7 for Oakland and Birtsas, 27, was 7-2 at Class AAA Tacoma. 
Cincinnati wanted to unload Parker's $1.3 million salary and also wanted to make more room in the outfield, where 


TERRIFIC VALUE 

join us for "BEEFY WEDNESDAY" Purchase a 14" Roast Beef Sub and receive an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 

Eric Davis, Tracy Jones, Kal 
Offer valid only on Wednesday Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion Daniels and Paul O'Neill already were squeezed. 

--·---------------~
..----.­
Wednesday, December 9, 1987 
The Observer page 15 

Campus 
8 p.m.: Dimensions in Jazz concert, 2ND Big Bands, free, Washington Hall. 
10-11 p.m.: Campus Perspectives talkshow, Notre Dame graduate and newly­elected South Bend city councilman Sean Coleman, WVFI-AM 640, host, Lynsey 
Strand, questions taken at 239-7471. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Roast Turkey French Bread Pizza Egg Rolls 

A forest fire couldhityou rightwhere you_ live. , 
Comics 
Bloom County 
111! WOK.ff 111KT 15 THIIT )ti(I'Vt 8£EN 
KC€1'/N& )Ollf? 
&I?()(JNCJHO&Ne5~ 
IN THe: Ct0:!£T A/..t. 7H~7!M€l 'CV5 I KNeW
\ 
YOf/'11 1/CT tiKC IITWfT.I 
\ 

Beernuts 
HAVe NCJT 
PeT~!?

P/?0/MetY 
66T NAME 
Hot.M.

~~N 
YO II ON~.

3HMOOZIN& :r 
I

WITH PM HAVel. 
HAVE/

/?JK Y&/11(5/ 
\
I 
Mark Williams 


Saint Mary's 
Baked Ham Super Pizza Florentine Omelet Deli Bar 

YeA' JV5T II PIG l IIN/1 YOV'I/~ 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS VIchy and Baden 
5 Tic 10 Rip 14 Buckle 15 Similar 16 -Major 17 To shelter 18 "Quo -" 19 Where Anna 
went  
20  Preakness  
flowers  
23  Buss  

24 Tropical 
cuckoo 25 Swine fare 28 Conjuror 33 Monet's stand 34 Tailed orbiter 35 1,501 36 Uncontrolled 37 Homes for 
bats 38 Approached 39 Holiday time 40 Memento 
41 Reason 42 Fated 44 Mountain 
ridge 45 Sternward 46 Stumble 48 Kentucky 
Derby 56 Strain 57 Libertines 58 ltalla's capital 59 Fuss 60 Sllverheels 
role 61 Mine opening 62 Biblical 
prophet 63 Lieu 64 Overdue 
DOWN 1 Mop 2 Lessen In 
Interest 3 Locale 4 Dotted 5 Reserves 6 Fiddles 7 Adjutant 
Berke Breathed 


'1:.". 
© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
8 Slide 9 Memos 1 0 Related to a 
cough 11 Silkworm 12 Wise -owl 13 Football team 21 Defeat 22 Army group 25 Basted 26 Forgo 27 Man and 
Capri 28 Changed 

residences 29 So be It! 30 Likeness 31 Own up to 32 Relative 34 Birthday food 37 Twists 38 NCO 40 Spat 47 Beef up a 51 Anchor 41 Home for lawn 52 Lilt 

cubs 48 Movie dog 53 Soft drink 43 Latin dances 49 Space 54 Send off 46 Gr. letter 50 Ruin 55 Satisfy 
The Far Side G 
C)1987 Unr'lltNI Ptetl SyndiCI11 



.. 
r 
r 





' Sports
~ Wednesday, December 9, 1987
page 16 
-----~-~-~----­

r 
Irish pound boards and Terriers, 74-49 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
While the shooting was ice­cold, the Irish heated up the boards on the way to an easy 74-49 over Boston University Tuesday night at the JACC. 
Notre Dame out-rebounded the Terriers 50-26, with sopho­more forward Keith Robinson collecting a game-high 16 of those plentiful missed shots. 
"To be honest with you," said Boston head coach Mike Jarvis, "the game was probably decided in the first two or three possessions down the court when Notre Dame got the rebounds. They wanted the ball, and they got the ball." 
The 19th-ranked Irish im­proved to 2-1 on the season, while the ECAC North Atlantic team Boston fell to 3-2. 
Holding a 33-24 lead at half, the Irish used a 23-6 run to pull away from the Terriers for good. After forward Mark Stevenson opened the half with a jumper from the key, six dif­ferent Notre Dame players scored. 


Jackson hit from the baseline after a reverse feed from for­ward Gary Voce. After Boston forward Larry Jones went over Voce for two, lhe senior co­captain connected on a three­point play when Jones fouled him on a turnaround jumper. 
Guard David Rivers hit a long jumper, Robinson put in a layup off an inbounds play and Stevenson hit a baseline jumper before Terrier guard Drederick Irving scored, making the score 46-28 for the Irish. Irish center Scott Pad­dock completed the round­robin scoring with a tip in of a missed layup by Rivers. 
The run was further helped by Boston's inability to put the 

Irish forward Gary Voce breaks through the Bos­see IRISH, page 13 ton defense for two of his 16 points. The Irish 
Women return against Pioneers 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
Although the women's bas­ketball team dropped its first game of the season in the Phoenix Classic last weekend, head coach Muffet McGraw says the squad will show marked improvement tonight against Oakland. 
The Irish lost to Wisconsin­Green Bay, 69-65, before downing Brigham Young in the consolation game, 81-69. McGraw saw the loss as a building block for the remainder of the season. 

"They know what they have to do now," she said of the 3-1 Irish. "They went out expect­ing to win without doing the work. Then, we played well against BYU." 
The Irish must be in the right frame of mind when the Pioneers invade the Joyce ACC at 7:30 p.m. Oakland is cur­rently a perfect 7-0 with all of those victories by margins of more than 20 points, including a romp over Michigan, 92-70. McGraw realizes the Irish must control the Pioneer of­fense in order to stay in the game. 
"We have to play good defense to beat them," she said. "They haven't been in a close game all year. They average in the 70's, so if we can hold them in the 50's, we'll have a chance." 
Notre Dame enters the game with a distinct height advan­tage over Oakland. The tallest Pioneer player stands 6'0" compared with center Sandy Botham at 6'2" and forwards Heidi Bunek at 6'4" and Diondra Toney at 5'9" for the Irish. McGraw will try to ex­ploit Oakland's inside game, and this chance couldn't have come at a better time. 
Botham had a season-high 20 points against Wisconsin­Green Bay and added 16 more in the win over Brigham Young while being named to the all­tourney squad. Bunek contrib­uted 28 points and Toney tossed in 19. In short, McGraw thinks the Irish frontline can be the difference in the game. 
"We'll be trying to get the ball inside," McGraw said. "We could do a better job rebounding inside, but I think we're doing a pretty good job overall." 
McGraw will start senior Mary Gavin and freshman Karen Robinson at the guard spots. Gavin averages 6.7 points per game and needs only 17 points to pass Laura Dqug­herty as Notre Dame's No.2 career scorer. Robinson comes in averaging 10.5 points, includ­ing a team-high 20 against Brigham Young. Annie Schwartz continues to give the Irish depth off the bench, averaging 9.2 points. 
McGraw has no plans to prepare differently for the Oak­land game despite the setback at Green Bay. 
"They're a lot like Wisconsin-Green Bay," she said. "They're aggressive, play man-to-man defense, and go to the basket well." 

Wrestlers earn spot in top 20 for first time in Irish history 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
For the first time during a season in its 32-year history as a varsity sport, the Notre Dame wrestling team has reached the Top 20. 
The Irish are ranked 16th in the latest issue of Amateur Wrestling News, but Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann is not about to start celebrating. 

"I think it's a little prema­ture," said McCann. "It's nice to have, but we haven't proven ourselves yet." 
The ranking comes in the wake of Notre Dame's impres­sive performance in the St. Louis Open two weeks ago, where team scores were not kept. The poll was completed before last weekend's Las Vegas Invitational, where the Irish placed tenth in a compe­tition that included 13 other Top 20 teams. 
"We have a chance to move up a spot after Vegas," said McCann. 
Notre Dame won the Mic­higan State Invitational in its only other event of the year so far. Its dual meet schedule does not begin until tomorrow's match at Miami of Ohio, and McCann believes his squad is better in tournaments than in dual meets. 
"I would say as a tournament team, we're a Top 20 team, but as a dual meet team, maybe not," said McCann. "We don't have the balance, and we still have some holes to fill. But we do have some great individ­uals." 
But the ranking does repre­sent a big change from last year, when only two startin~ wrestlers survived the season without injury, and the Irish limped to a 1-11 record. 
Amateur Wrestling News had Notre Dame in its Top 20 poll one other time, ranked 18th in the 1978-79 preseason poll. That year, Irish heavyweight Bob Golic was coming off a 1978 season where he placed third in the nation. 
Golic, who was also a Notre Dame football player and cur­rently is a member of the Cleveland Browns, did not wrestle in 1979. Consequently, the Irish never appeared in the Top 20 during the actual season and did not return to the rankings until now. 



Countdown: The Top 10 of 1987 
As 1987 draws to a close, all seems well under the shadow of the Dome. 
The Heisman Trophy is where it belongs -in the hands of Tim Brown. David Rivers has a ready cast to work with as the Irish make another run at the NCAA Tournament. The wrestling team is ranked 16th in the nation, the fencing teams are undefeated and the swimming and women's basketball teams are off to strong starts. All this while 


Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 
Notre Dame students recover from Christmas SYRs, prep for final exams and anticipate New Year's Day in Dallas. 
Just as students count down the ten days remaining before the semester break, here's my countdown of the top ten Notre Dame sports stories of 1987. 
One, as in the number-one player in the country. To say that Tim Brown provided Irish fans with exciting moments this fall is modest. The senior flanker literally did it all for Notre Dame, receiving, returning and running his way to become the school's seventh Heisman Trophy winner on Saturday. His two consecutive punt returns for touch­downs in the home opener will be noted as one of the greatest two-minute spans in Irish football history. 
Two, as in the margin of victory in Notre Dame's 60-58 upset of top-ranked North Carolina at the ACC last February. "Nobody leaves Notre Dame number one," said Digger Phelps and Rivers, Gary Voce and Company proved it again. A true Notre Dame Moment, one that will always bring back thoughts of flying yellow placards. Per­haps the Notre Dame student body should have been charged with the cost of replacing Phelps' split suitcoat. 
Three, as in three-time All-American fencer Molly Sul­livan, who led the Notre Dame women's fencing team to the first-ever national championship for a Notre Dame women's varsity program. Sullivan, then the defending national champion and now Irish team captain in her senior year, placed third in the individual competition held here at Notre Dame last March. Four, as in four times the Notre Dame football team has appeared in the Cotton Bowl. The Irish will return there on the first day of 1988 after posting an 8-3 record against what many agree was the nation's most difficult schedule. Lou Holtz' Pony Ex­press ran past and over most opponents to keep national championship hopes alive before losses to Penn State and Miami in the last two weeks of the season. 
Five, as in five players on a basketball team. The Notre Dame basketball team finished its 1986-87 campaign with a 24-8 record and reached the NCAA Tournament "Sweet Sixteen'' before falling to North Carolina. Irish floor gen­eral David Rivers was named Comeback Player of the 
see ITEMS, page 12 



