----------------~~--~--­
IACCENT: The light at the end of the tunnel I :~~ng cloudy latertoday 
with a 20 percent chance of showers and a high around 50.

VIEWPOINT: All brass but no cIass L...-~-~:_
I I 


VOL. XXI, NO. 41 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The Observer I Susy Hernandez

But officer . .. 

Saint Mary's Professor Dr. William Shannon had the Shannon was taken away, ending class early for the right to remain silent yesterday after being "arrested" students "bringing charges" against him. as part of a jail and bail fundraiser for charity. 
SMC endowment not affected by recent stock market plunge 
By KATIE KEARNEY 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Last week's stock market decline probably caused an in­crease in the Saint Mary's en­dowment fund because it is heavily weighted in debt securities, according to Jason Lindower, Saint Mary's con­troller and business manager. 
"We've got about 64 percent of our endowment fund in fixed­income securities which have gone the opposite way of the stock market," Lindower said. "Of the 34 percent of the en­dowment fund invested in com­mon stocks, one of our advisors had 14 percent of the portfolio in cash." 
Regarding the equity portion of the portfolio, Lindower said, "We're really not feeling any short-term effects of the downturn, other than we don't feel as well off as three weeks ago. 
"We're not planning on changing any policies at the present time," he added. 
In the long run, however, he said the market crash may af­fect the Saint Mary's stock portfolio. 
"In the future, a larger percentage of the endowment fund probably will be placed in common stocks," Lindower said. 
He said he believes if the stock market remains de­pressed, the Saint Mary's en­dowment fund could suffer. However, he said he believes the market would have to stay down for at least two years before creating a great impact on the Saint Mary's fund. 
Because of the affluent na­ture of the individuals and cor­porations who contribute to the endowment fund, Lindower said he believes the decline will not adversely affect future fund donations. 



Summit details still unclear 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Ronald Reagan on Wednesday renewed his offer to host the next superpower summit meeting in the United States, but administration officials said Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev might prefer an­other site. 
Gorbachev's reservations surfaced as the White House and the Kremlin announced that Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze would fly to Washington for talks Friday with Reagan and Secretary of State George P. Shultz. 
He was expected to deliver a message from Gorbachev to Reagan, who said in speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, N.Y., that "it would be good for Mr. Gorbac­hev to see this country for him­self." 
But two U.S. officials, de­manding anonymity, told The Associated Press separately that the Soviet leader was reluctant to have the summit held in the United States. 
"He is concerned about being upstaged by the president on his own turf," one of the offi­cials said. "They also have said they are worried about secur­ity." 
The official said the Soviets had hinted that Dublin, Ireland, might be a suitable summit site. "But," he added, "I wouldn't be surprised ifthey agreed to meet here." 
The second official said Gor­bachev felt uncomfortable about having the summit in Washington, and that was one of the reasons for his hesitation in setting a date for his third meeting with Reagan. 
But another U.S. official said, "Gorbachev, himself, in discussing the summit last week with Shultz in Moscow 
talked  only  about  Washing­ 
ton."  
The  leaders'  first  summit  

was in Geneva in November 
see SUMMIT, page 3 


Honor code to debut in spring 
By KENDRA LEE MOR­RILL 
Copy Editor 
Certain courses will be des­ignated as honor code courses in the preliminary course schedule booklets for the 1988 spring semester. These book­lets will be available after Oc­tober 30. 
Beginning in January of 1988, sixty percent of freshman courses and some upperclass courses will be conducted un­der the University's new honor code. 
Freshman entering Notre Dame for the 1987-1988 aca­demic year came to the Uni­versity with the understanding that they would be required to abide by the honor code, accor­ding to Associate Provost Fa­ther Oliver Williams. Each suc­cessive freshman class will be told they will be required to fol­low the honor code, Williams said. In this manner the honor code will be phased in over four years. 
To prepare the freshman for the honor code courses, two videotapes will be shown to them in their dorms, said Wil­liams. One tape will be on the notion of honor. The second tape will explain why the aca­demic council decided to imple­ment an honor code and will outline the procedures of the code. This will give all fresh-
ND grad Storin focuses on press, privacy conflict 
By LINDA BAILY 
News Staff 
Matthew Storin, former editor of the Chicago Sun­Times, said ''every story must be evaluated sepa­rately" when considering its impact on individuals' privacy during a lecture last 
night  in  the  library  
auditorium.  
Storin,  a  Notre Dame  

graduate, spoke about "The Press and Privacy: A Con­flict of Interest?" 
Storin pointed out that the press must open themselves up to a greater awareness of how the news is affecting the people it is written about. He stated that many reporters spend more time worrying about how they will obtain the information rather than what impact it will have upon the individuals they are reporting on. 
Regarding the victims who die from AIDS, Storin said people feel differently man a chance to hear the code explained, said Williams. 
The specific freshman courses designated as honor code courses will be listed and explained in a newsletter that will be sent out in a week or so, said Dr. Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 
The list should be "rather lengthy," said Hofman. "We're choosing a large number of courses to give (the freshman) the widest possible experience of the honor code, and to give (the code) the best possible chance," he said. 
In addition to the freshman honor code courses, certain up­perclass courses will also be conducted under the honor code. These courses will be des­ignated as honor code courses in the preliminary course schedule booklet, and only those upperclass students will­ing to abide by the code should enroll in these courses, said Williams. 
The instructor of each course chose to teach his class under the honor code, and then received approval of the dean of the appropriate The number of courses is small, according to Williams, because the deans "didn't want to close anyone out" of taking a class because it was an honor code class. 
Typically, said Williams, if an instructor of a course with 
see HONOR, page 6 
about how to report the dis­ease. The policy of The Bos­ton Globe and The Chicago Sun-Times is to print the cause of death if the funeral home gives out the informa-
Matthew Storln 


tion, he said. 
Storin said he does not feel it is necessary to reveal the cause of·death in obituaries, for example, if the family does not want it revealed. He added that this does not 
sea PRESS, page 5 

Thursday, October 29, 1987 
page 2 The Observer 

Notre Dame complaints not an accurate picture 
I complain about a lot of things while I attend 
Of Interest MBA Mini-forum will be held this afternoon from noon until 4 in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education. Representatives from 46 graduate schools of business will be on hand to answer any questions students have about the application process, financial assistance, curriculum and job placement. The forum is open to stu­dents of any major. -The Observer Trick or treat will take place on the Fieldhouse Mall today from 4-6 p.m. The Student Union Board is starting off Halloween with free candy and aDJ.-The Observer Wear green, says the Student Union Board. All Irish football fans are asked to wear green to the Navy game this Saturday. -The Observer The first annual survey of the student body is being mailed to 2,000 random undergraduate students. The sur­vey, sponsored by the student senators, is ~imed at deter­mining the backgrounds, desires, and attitudes of Notre Dame students. All students who receive a survey are urged to complete it and return it via campus mail before Friday, Nov. 13. The results will be released after Thanks­giving. -The Observer Leprechaun window posters are being distributed in the halls. Student Government urges students to show Irish spirit and display these posters in their windows. Off-campus students and anyone else needing a poster can pick them up at the Student Government secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer The Great Hunger Clean-up will have an organizational meeting tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. People are needed for fund raising, recruitment, finding worksites, and publicity. The clean-up will be held on Saturday, April16. -The Observer A ribbon-cutting ceremony will be held at the St. Joseph's Bank branch in the basement of LaFortune Stu­dent Center Friday at 11 a.m. At this time, officials from St. Joseph's Bank will present a check for $1,862 dollars to Joe Cassidy, director of the Office of Student Activities. This number signifies the number of accounts opened at this new branch since St. Joseph's Bank began operating in LaFortune in August. -The Observer The Third Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns will be Friday at 12: 15 p.m. Professor Jeanne Day of the psychology department will speak on "Improv­ing Educational Assessment." -The Observer "An Alternative Tradition: Academic Styles of Painting in the 19th Century," is the title of a lecture sponsored by the Friends of the Snite Museum, Thursday, Oct. 29 at 7:30 p.m. Stephen Spiro, chief curator of the Snite Museum of Art, will speak in the Annenberg Auditorium. Admission is free to students. -The Observer Students interested in participating in the 1988 Notre Dame Excavations at Oppido Mamertina (southern Italy) are invited to a meeting on Friday, Oct. 30, in Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall, at 4:30. -The Observer Observer Of Interests and In Briefs may be submitted in writing at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until2 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus­wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials and determine which items it will publish. The Observer will attempt to print all submitted Of Interests, but because of space limitations, there is no guarantee that they will all be run. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor ... .. ............... Rob Luxem Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Design Assistant ............... Alison Cocks Accent Copy Editor ..... Trisha Chambers Typesetters .......................... Mike Buc Accent Layout ................. Heather Hypes .. .. . . .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .... Shawn Sexton Typists ................................ Lynn Ewing News Editor..................... Scott Bearby .............................................. Jen Conlon Copy Editor .................. Kendra Morrill ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee Sports Copy Editor ................ Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Rader Viewpoint Layout ... Dee Dee Wroblewski Photographer .... David Fischer . TM ot.eneo-(USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. ~ OblerYer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas· eel for $40 per year (Sl~ per semester) by writina TM OI!Mneo-, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. TM Olleeneo-is a member of ~ Allodated Pnu. All reproduction riahts are reserved.  

school here. I admit it. Thousands can confirm it. 
From administration policy and the fairness of tests to long lunch lines and the cost of Double Huddleburgers with cheese, there isn't much around here that escapes my wrath. But I am not alone. 
An ungodly proportion of my total amount of conversation with other students each day is devoted to our slamming some facet of Notre Dame -the school we love to hate. 
You'd never guess that 92 percent of students who enter Notre Dame as freshmen stay here for all four years (98 percent before the Alcohol Policy). The amount of negative response that I hear leveled at just about every aspect of university life would seem to indicate an im­pending exodus from this barren abyss of lim­ited freedoms and even more limited promis­cuity. But it never happens. Why? 
Every year the story is the same: The lines are too long everywhere. The food's rotten. We should all be able to drink outside our rooms. Everyone's too competitive. Cops shouldn't bust us at bars or at off-campus parties. It's too hard to get grades. Sex should be legal. The girls are ugly anyway. Too many foreign TA's. Dillon sucks. Digger can't coach. The weather is ridiculous. The rooms are too small. Weekend fun is restrained at best. Bookstore prices are outrageous. The girls are ugly. That silly Proposition 48 thing kept Tony Rice out a year. A federal investigation is launched every time you try to drive on campus. No day off on na­tional holidays. Crunchberries in the dining hall only on select days. The beat goes on and on. But why? 
Let's count our blessings, shall we? Sure, we're ambitious and want to see every shortcoming of life at Notre Dame rectified in­stantly and to our specifications. But complain­ing has become the campus pastime, and it's not too fair, considering that Notre Dame serves a lot of pretty darn useful purposes. Not the least of these is as an airtight, four-year bubble shielding us from the real world. While we're being protected from going out on our own, we're increasing our potential for making megabucks. 
Only 40 percent of people in our age group (18-22) are in any college right now, and only half of that 40 percent will graduate. And a lot of that final 20 percent go to Podunk U. or an­other state school equivalent. So, when we get out, it's safe to say that we'll be pretty highly coveted by the powers-that-be in the American work force. Don't let that Don your government midterm wash away your dream of a starting 



salary in excess of $35,000. 
Many people on campus get their laundry done for a nominal fee by the University, the University Food Services have won national awards in two of the last three years. And if . you enter them with an open mind, 99 percent of the situations you encounter at Notre Dame 
can be made tolerable. 
Really, this school is Fantasyland compared 
to other situations you could be in. We've got 
a golf course in our backyard, a national sports 
reputation unlike almost any other, and as 
beautiful and scenic a campus as there is. And, 
when you think about it, the Alcohol Policy isn't 
that bad when you consider that the drinking 
age almost everywhere in the country 
(including Indiana) is 21. 
I guess complaining is just a natural tendency 
for aggressive, informed, cream-of-the-crop 
folks like us, but when it comes right down to 
it, Notre Dame offers quite a few more oppor­
tunities than headaches. 
What happens when the world of high finance 
A world of high success develops. 
Merrill Lynch is looking for candidates with majors in Business, Liberal Arts and Technical Subjects to join our 
Corporate Systems Program 
We Will Be On Campus To Hold lnformaticn Sessions 
November 3,1987, 7:00 to 9:00p.m. Morris Inn Alumni Room 

meets the world of high technology? 
~Merrill Lynch 
Your world should know no boundaries. 


The Observer page 3 

'Saint Mary's a place to grow' 
Saint Mary's given high marks 

I and the American people will welcome him."




HARVARD GRADUATE 
A terse White House an­By MIMI TUOHY 


Staff Reporter 

Kathleen Hessert described her first few months after graduating from Saint Mary's as "miserable. I thought that my life had peaked at Saint Mary's at age 22. Eventually I . realized that it was time for me to take my own talents and what Saint Mary's had taught me out into the real world." 
And that is exactly what the 1974 graduate did. Hessert, president of Communications Concepts in Charlotte, N.C., elaborated on her college years and her career in a speech last night at Haggar College Cen­ter. 
"It was not until I came to Saint Mary's that I realized who I was and what I could do. Saint Mary's gave me a place to grow." 
By JULIE RYAN 
News Staff 

Saint Mary's College has been named one of the best
Library tech 
small, comprehensive colleges in America, according to a
Junior Warren Sanger discovers the new computerized card catalog 
recent survey of college and
system at the Hesburgh Library yesterday. The German and finance 
university presidents in U.S.
major was working on a German term paper. 
News and World Report. 
The College was ranked seventh out of 170 colleges. Twenty-one percent of the 68.8
URBAN p~ 
percent who responded rated" Saint Mary's as a top institu­tion in the survey which ran the Oct. 26 issue. The presidents of colleges
REMINDER z 
rated the top 10 schools in the
G) 

smaller comprehensive cate-
The Urban Plunge Orientation 
m

Workshop is this Sunday, 
'f'• ... .. ·,·.. . .. ~ 
November 1st from 2:.30-4:.30 p.m. 
SEAFOOD 
in the Hesburgh 
* Served in our warm 
casual dining room. carrv out.
Library Auditorium. 
gory based on the following criteria: cohesiveness of cur­riculum, quality of teaching, the relationship between fac­ulty and students and the atmo­sphere of learning fostered by the campus. 

"The thing that pleases the College most is that (the recognition) comes from peers of comparable institutions," said Brett McLaughlin, who handles public relations for Saint Mary's. 
A school is considered "smal­ler comprehensive" if it has an enrollment of 1,500-2,500, if it has a wide variety of profes­sional and liberal arts pro­grams and if it awards more 
Hessert's speech was the first of the "Life After Saint Mary's" series sponsored by the student government and Saint Mary's Alumnae Rela­tions. 
While taking a full course lmid her senior year, Hessert worked thirty hours per week for the local WJVAIWRVR radio station. She moved to Syracuse, N.Y., following com­mencement and started as a general assignment reporter for CBS. She remained in tele­vision broadcasting for the next ten years, her career cul­minating in the hosting of her own talk show. 
After moving to South Carolina and taking time out of her career to have two children, Hessert decided that it was time to put her commu­nications skills to work in a pro­fessional business. 

"Communication is a compe­tition," she said. "Words are not the only thing involved, ap­pearance and actions count, too. The challenge is to make our good ideas matter to others. Communications Con­cepts helps executives learn the art of effective communi­cation." Hessert, a humanis­tics studies major, is a firm believer that "you can do whatever you want to do" but describes herself as being somewhat of a "late bloomer." 
Next Wednesday's alumni speaker will be Kathleen Flynn Fox, the marketing vice­president for Carousel Restau­rant Group. She will speak at 
6:30 p.m. in Haggar College Center. 
than half of its Bachelor of Arts 
degrees in two or more areas. 
Berea College in Kentucky was selected as number one fol­lowed by Gustavus Adolphus College (Minn.), Whittier Col­lege (Calif.), Augustana College (Ill.), Hood College (Md.), William Jewell College (Mo.), Saint Mary's College, Collf:ge of Saint Catherine (Minn.), Milikin University (Ill.) and Otterbein College(Ohio). 
Saint Mary's is one of the three all-women's colleges mentioned. The others are Hood College and the College of Saint Catherine. 


Summit 
continued from page 1 
1985. There they agreed to have back-to-back sessions the next two years in Washington and in Moscow. 
But their summit last Octo­ber was held, instead, in Reyk­javik, Iceland. 
Without putting pressure on Gorbachev to come here, Reagan said in his West Point speech that "summits can be useful for leaders and for na­


SCHOOL of ARTS and SCIENCES 
Will be on Campus to Talk to Interested Students on October 30th at 1:30 & 2:30 p.m. in the Career Placement Center in the Hesburgh Memorial 
Librar 
nouncement, meanwhile, said Shevardnadze would make a brief visit to Washington and meet Friday with Reagan and Shultz. It described the talks as a continuation of discussions Shevardnadze held here in Sep­tember and again Oct. 22 and 23 with Shultz in Moscow. 
The agenda accepted by both sides includes arms control, human rights issues, regional problems, including the Iran­Iraq war; and U.S.-Soviet rela­tions, said State Department spokesman Charles E. Redman. 

On prospects for a summit, Redman said "our basic pos­ture is that we'll wait and see what the foreign minister has to offer." 

_..___..~--------~~--.~~--~---------·----~ 
-----~-~~-~---~ 
Thursday, October 29, 1987 



Mamas 
B~~y 
S269 \.~~ 
929N. Eddy south Bend, IN 
Mon.-Thurs.: 10om· 7pm Friday: 9am · 8pm Saturday: 9am · 6pm Closed Sunday 
Caroline Doii11W' 
S2S9 

The Observer page 5 
Grace Hall, Malloy to raise money by running 
By JIM WINKLER minute segment. want. Brennan mentioned that serves a dual good purpose," a collection canister will be lo­Staff Reporter From that point untilll a.m. a few runners had pledged to said Brennan. "We take care cated at Fieldhouse Mall, Saturday, runners will follow a run for an hour or more. of our own Notre Dame stu­which is the starting and finish­
Notre Dame President Fa­circular course around The purpose of this event, ac­dents in the area and we show ing point of each runner's seg­ther Edward Malloy and 40 campus. Each runner will cording to Brennan, goes far South Bend residents that we ment. members of Grace Hall will carry a baton which will be beyond demonstating the ath­care about our community." Brennan pointed out that the participate in a 24-hour run passed from participant to par­letic ability of a group of run­This can help relieve some of event was taking place on a beginning tomorrow to raise ticipant. Brennan said, "Basi­ners. The direct purpose is to the tension that exists between football weekend when many money for the Northeast Neigh­cally, our goal is to keep the raise money' and by doing so, Notre Dame students and the parents will be on campus, and borhood Community Service baton moving for 24-hours for to show that Notre Dame stu­City of South Bend, Brennan he said this should help in the Center, according to Seamus charity." dents are concerned with the added. money-raising. Brennan, chairman of the Brennan explained that in community around them. He said the work on fundrais­"I think we can establish a annual Grace Hall24-hour Run. this type of running event, dis­Brennan said that the money ing takes place a few weeks definite link between Grace 
The run, expected to raise tance is not the issue. Each run­collected would go to the North­before the 24-hour run. Bren­Hall and the Northeast Neigh­more than the $400 collected ner participates for as long as east Neighborhood Community nan and his staff contacted the borhood Community," Bren­during last year's event, will he wants. Runners sign up for Service Center on Notre Dame South Bend Chamber of Com­nan said. "We have an oppor­begin at 11 a.m. Friday with 15-minute segments, and can Ave. merce to ask for local business tunity to serve the greater Malloy running the first 30-run as many of those as they "Giving them the money contributions. During the run, community at large." 
'Jim and Tammy,' Spuds top list of popular masks 
Associated Press beer commercials, also is Mary Lou Landes of Landes big this year, including eyeholes are in the neck, with popular, as is Alf, the space Costume Co. says masks of cheeseburgers, hot dogs, corn the large head looming atop the INDIANAPOLIS -Ronald alien with his own television se­presidents always are popular on the cob and ice cream cones. wearer's head. 
Reagan and Richard Nixon still ries. at Halloween. Reagan and Pam Russell, manager of French maids, beer cans, are popular, but the hottest new But in Indiana, gory, Nixon are the biggest sellers, Costumes Unlimited, says her pumpkins, the San Diego masks for Halloween this fall gruesome masks reign su­whereas Gerald Ford and favorite is a gorilla costume. Chicken, Popeye and Olive Oyl are rubber likenesses of preme, retailers say. Jimmy Carter masks are ''The gorilla carries a steel also are popular this year, said 
beleaguered television evan­"Real gory, bloody, dis­practically collectors' items, cage with you in it," she said. Russell. gelists Jim and Tammy Faye figured face masks are big for she said. Landes says "big head" cos­Bakker. haunted houses," said Denny Harry Palmer, manager of tumes of Frankenstein's mon­Yount said adult costumes at 
Spuds MacKenzie, the Illi­Yount, co-owner of Costumes Indianapolis Costume Co., says ster, the devil and other evil his store carry an averagenois dog who's made it big in By Margie in Indianapolis. food masks and costumes are creepies are popular. The price of about $22. 
ComP-uter Science & MIS Students 
SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
U 
he rush of adrenaline. If you're a highly-motivated The surge of excite­person, an independent worker, ment. The flash of and an innovative thinker, you inspiration. Familiar have the right chemistry for fPPlings to talented IS profession-ACCENT. als at The Tra·;elers. And to the Now make the right move. promising graduates who'll join To The Travelers' ACCENT pro­us this year. gram. Where you'll find varied You've discovered these and valuable learning experiences. feelines in your academic work. Asupportive human environment Recognized them in the elegance and a sophisticated technical one. of advanced technology. And now And where you'll find plenty of you can share in them at The opportunities to help move you Travelers, where the support is ahead. stronger, the environment more You'll also receive a com­sophisticated and the ap!"lications petitive salary, complete benefits 

more challenging. 

As a distinguished Com}'uter Science 01 MIS graduate, you now have a difficult decision to make about your future. That's why we created ACCENT. Afast-paced, competitive program. Oftering tech· nic<..l and management training through a diverse range of assignments leading to key professional positions. 
All in one of the most advanced IS environ­ments in the financial ~ervices industry-including the largest IMS sh,.p, 14 IBM mamframe~ and a 37,000 terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of IS technology doesn't stop there. We've recently installed over 20,000 IBM PCs, integrated the latest 4th generation languages, and we're develop­ing our future leaders with ACCENT. 
If you have a degree in computer science, MIS or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­gramming experience, you have the right credentials for ACCENT. 
The Travelers Companies, Hariiord, Connecticut 06183. 
and even an IBM PC AT to take home with you. Plus generous relocation assistance tn our Hartford, Connecticut hom~ office. 
So, if you're a bright and talented computer­oriented major, join The Travelers. Where the accent is on you and the inspiration shared by all. 
Find out more about signing up for The Travelers' interview schedule. Recruiters will be on campus Friday, November 13th. Or, send your resume to: Gail L'Heureux, The Travelers Companies, 30-CR, CN87, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
TheTravelerSf 
You're better off under the Umbrella:~' 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Press 
continued from page 1 
really apply to figures such as Liberace or Rock Hudson, who "checked their privacy at the door years ago." 
Storin also referred to an in­cident involving a Saint Mary's student whose name was pub­lished by the South Bend Tribune after her stillborn baby was found in the trash. 
Storin said he was surprised that the authorities released the girl's name when no charges had been proven. He said he felt the minor's name should not have been used, par­ticularly because she had not been convicted of any crime. Storin said there probably was not enough discussion about whether to print her name. 
Reporters must keep practi­cal points in mind when dealing with the topic of restraint in matters of privacy, Storin said. 

One of the practical consid­erations an editor must make is how the public will react to a revelation, he said. People may resent the press for uncalled-for lack of restraint, and may be alienated by the press. He cited the Gary Hart case as reported by the Miami Herald as an example and said the Hart case shows the pain the press can inflict. Another factor a reporter must consider is whether the actions of a per­son will have any bearing on his future role in society. A guideline used when dealing with political candidates is whether they have consistent patterns of particular kinds of weaknesses, such as infidelity or emotional instability, that may affect their political per­formances. "Whether or not a person is a leading candidate is also taken into considera­tion," he said. 
Storin said that reporters do the same thing for mundane topics as they do for the big news -search for the truth. But he said there "must be some overriding reason to allow reporters to delve into the private lives of individuals." 
--~-----_....,--~-----~-----~-­
page 6 The Observer 
U.S. airmen killed in Philippines 
Associated Press 
ANGELES CITY, Philip­pines -Suspected communist rebels shot and killed two U.S. airmen and two other people Wednesday in separate daylight attacks near the giant 
U.S. 
Clark Air Base. 

U.S. 
officials said the dead included two Air Force ser­geants, a Filipino retired from the U.S. Air Force and a Filipino businessman of U.S. ancestry. Assassins also fired on an Air Force captain. 


The attacks came within 15 minutes of each other and fol­lowed by several hours the slayings of two policemen and the wounding of an army colonel in Manila. Authorities also blamed those on the rebels. 
Names of the victims were not immediately available. Base spokesman Maj. Thomas Boyd said both airmen were in uniform. 
Maj. Gen. Donald Snyder, commander of the 13th Air Force, said the motive for the killings were unknown. But Col. Manuel Caranza, security officer of the Philippine mili­tary's Clark Air Base Com­mand, said he suspected com­munist rebels were responsible. 
He said the style of the at­tacks and the weapons used ­.45-caliber pistols -pointed to rebel assassination teams known as "sparrow units" for the swiftness of their assaults. 
Francisco Nepomuceno, mayor of Angeles City, also said he suspected communist assassination squads because of recent U.S. arms shipments and statements of support for President Corazon Aquino's government. 
A statement. by the Philip­pine military said the first at­tack came at about 3:45 p.m. when three assailants shot dead an Air Force sergeant in front of a McDonald's less than two miles from the base. 
Moments later, up to 15 gun­men ambushed the car of an­other Air Force sergeant, kil­ling him instantly. The Filipino businessman, who stopped to investigate, was also slain. 
The retired Air Force ser­geant was shot dead as he drove his station wagon near a military housing area, the statement said. 
The Air Force captain was attacked near another housing area at about the same time, the statement added. When the captain returned fire, the rebels fled. 
At the Pentagon, officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said the attacks "were obviously coordinated." 
Threats, raids continue in Gulf 
Associated Press 
KUWAIT-Iraq said Wednes­day its warplanes raided three tankers off Iran and industrial targets on the mainland. Iran threatened to answer any West­ern economic embargo by sealing off the Persian Gulf. 
Iran also said three of its warplanes approached Ameri­can warships south of the gulf in defiance of U.S. Navy warn­ings. 
The 13th convoy of Navy ves­sels and reflagged Kuwaiti tankers arrived safely at the sheikdom, which has been hit by three Iranian missiles this month. 
Shipping sources in the gulf said they could not confirm the attacks on tankers reported by Iraq. The Iranians indirectly confirmed bombing sorties on the mainland by saying 18 people were killed and 70 wounded in Iraqi air raids on civilian areas. 
Iranian authorities vowed retaliation and warned Iraqi 
Honor 
continued from page 1 
only one section asked to con­duct his class under the honor code, the dean refused permis­sion. The courses which will be honor code courses are ones with a number of different sec­tions to allow students to have a choice between taking an honor code or a non-honor-code class. 
Any other course can be taught under the honor code if the students in the class vote unanimously to take the class under the terms of the code. If any decide they do not wish to take the class as an honor code class, the course must be con­ducted following the normal su­pervision procedures. 
The Academic Council of the University passed the resolu­tion implementing the new honor system on April28, 1987. This four-year experimental program will begin in January of 1988 and end in January of 1992. 
The proposed honor code con­tains: j a pledge signed by each student indicating willingness to abide by the code and a pledge signed by each student when submitting work indica­ting that the student has nei­ther given nor received unaut­horized aid j a requirement that civilians, as they have before in the 7-year-old war, to evacuate areas near industrial and economic installations. 
Marine executives reported a fire at Saudi Arabia's Safaniyeh field near Kuwait, the world's largest offshore oil operation. They said one drill­ing platform burned for hours and there might have been one casualty. 
The fire may have been ac­cidental, the sources said, but Saudi authorities were inves­tigating. Arabian American Oil Co., commonly known as Aramco, operates the field. 
President Ali Khamenei renewed the oft-expressed Iranian threat to close the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow gulf gateway whose shores belong to Iran and Oman. 
Tehran radio, monitored in Cyprus, said Khamenei's remarks were prompted by an embargo President Reagan imposed this week on nearly all trade between the United States and Iran. 
any student aware of p· .•onor code violation report the viola­tion (a student not acting on a known violation will be consid­erect to be violating the code) j 
"The Strait of Hormuz is a waterway for shipping and for the Persian Gulf countries," he said. "The day we feel no ship is coming to us through that waterway we will not allow any ship to enter the Persian Gulf. 
"We have been threatened by an economic blockade by the Western states. We are not afraid of such things. We have an appropriate reply to any measure." 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency said the Iranian warplanes challenged Navy ships last Friday in the Gulf of Oman, south of Hormuz. 
It said the pilots "ignored warnings and a threat of at­tack" transmitted by radio at distances of 20, 22 and 27 miles and replied that they would fly "within the range prescribed" by their command. 
IRNA said they approached to within 10 miles of the ships and returned to their bases without incident. 
student participation in the in­vestigation and determination of guilt or innocence of alleged offenders j a system of sane­tions. 

Thursday, October 29, 1987 



THE KAPLAN CURRICULUM FOR CAREER CLIMBERS: 
LSAT, GMAT, MCAT, GRE,DAT, 
Advanced Medical 
Boards, TOEFL, NursingBoards, NTE, CPA, Intro. to 
Law, Speed 
Reading, 
AND MORE. 
For nearly 50 years, Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared over 1 million students for admission and licensing tests. So befo~ you take a test, prepare with the best. Kaplan. A good score may help change your life. 
!KAPLAN 
STANlfY H.I<API.AN EDUCATlONAL CINTER IJO. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 Phone 219/272-(135 
12/12/87 LSAT CLASS STARTS NOW! 
The Observer page 7 

Kevin O'Connor and Colleen Mara spend time study­Convocation Center. ing for their geology class at the Joyce Athletic and 
Cats wake family during fire 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTOWN, Ind. -A pair of cats named Maddie and Kitty are receiving credit for rescuing a Charleston woman and her two children from a nighttime fire in their home. 
Angie Webster, 24, and children Ashleigh, 5, and Jef­frey, 3, fled through a bedroom window and escaped from the smoke billowing through the brick, ranch-style home early Tuesday after the cats began pouncing on them and making strange sounds, Webster said. 
"The cats were up on the bed and making weird noises, not a meow, maybe a grunting noise," Webster said Wednes­day. 
Danny Grace of the Charles­town Volunteer Fire Depart­ment said ashes from a fireplace in the living room ig­nited a bucket of pine cones, and the flames spread to papers, blankets and pillows. 
HALLOWEEN COSTUME BALL 
Friday, October 30 10 pm-2 am at Theodore's FREE Admission 
-food, door prizes, a costume contest and more! 
sponsored by SUB and Theodore's 
The home is equipped with a smoke detector, but Webster said she had disconnected it over the summer after burning some food in the kitchen and had forgotten to reconnect it. 
Webster said her husband, Jeff, 27, was at work, so the children were sleeping with her when the fire broke out about 2 a.m. 
The cats -Maddie, which is almost 2 years old, and her 1­year-old kitten, Kitty -came into the bedroom and jumped on the bed, Webster said. 
"The older one was up and walking up and down me, pacing almost. They were both very excited and agitated," she said. 
"They finally woke me and I became aware of what was going on," she added. "My eyes were stinging from the smoke. I looked down the hall and all I could see was smoke." 
Don't let your term papen wait until t.he last minute. 

Call 
THUNDER ENTERPRISES 
Word Processing · Plus 
P.O. Box 414 'South lend, IN 46624 
novaw,.a.
(2111234-121!2 

...,. 
Movie poster sale 
S. Korean diplomat released in Lebanon 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Kidnap­pers released a South Korean diplomat for a $1 million ran­som after holding him for 21 months, the leader of the main­stream Shiite Moslem militia said Wednesday. 
Do Chae-Sung was released Tuesday, and "not less than one million dollars have been paid," Nabih Berri, leader of the Shiite Amal militia, told reporters at his residence in Moslem West Beirut. 
"Amal did her job to protect him after his release into a safe voyage," Berri said in English. He did not disclose further details. 
No information was immedi­ately available about who pur­portedly provided the money and who was paid. 
Do, 45, the second secretary at the South Korean embassy in Beirut, was kidnapped in the city's Moslem western sector on Jan. 31, 1986. A group calling itself Revolutionary Cells claimed his abduction, but has made no public demands. 
A Lebanese employee at the South Korean embassy also said the diplomatic mission does not have information about Do being released. 
Do's release leaves 22 foreig­ners, including eight Americans, held hostage after kidnappings in Lebanon. Most are believed held by pro-Iranian Shiite Moslem groups. 
In addition, Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite has been missing since last January, when he disappeared during a mission to mediate with Is­lamic Jihad, which holds some of the hostages. No group has claimed kidnapping him. 
Berri's militia has been en­
gaged in efforts to free some 
foreign hostages, including an 
American and two Saudi 
Arabians. 
In June 1985, the pro-Syrian 
militia also negotiated with 
Shiite hijackers of the Ameri­
can TWA airliner in Beirut for 
freedom of the passengers. 
There have been several kid­
nappings for ransom of 
Lebanese in West Beirut in 
recent months. Press reports in 
Germany say that the Siemens 
electronic company paid a ran­
som for the release in Septem­
ber of an engineer held hostage 
in Lebanon. Siemens, of West 
Germany, denied the reports. 
Do:s reported released came 
one day after kidnapped Amer­
ican journalist Terry Ander­
son, the longest-held foreign 
hostage, turned 40 in captivity. 
Anderson, chief Middle East 
Correspondent of The Associ­
ated Press, was kidnapped in 
West Beirut March 16, 1985. 
One day later, the pro-Iranian 
Islamic Jihad, or Islamic Holy 
War, claimed his abduction. 

Brokerage gunman a former witness 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The man who shot two stockbrokers and himself had testified against organized crime figures in a stock manipulation case before en­tering the federal witness protection program, officials said Wednesday. 
Arthur Kane, 53, killed the manager of a Merrill Lynch brokerage office Monday, seriously wounded his broker and then turned the gun on him­self. The longtime dabbler in the stock market had lost an estimated $10 million to $15 mil­lion when the market dropped in the last two weeks. 
The U.S. Justice Department said Kane was actually Arthur Katz, a disbarred Kansas City, Mo., attorney relocated to Miami in 1979 after testifying for federal authorities. 
Along with cooperating in a Kansas insurance fraud case in which he pleaded guilty in 1978, Kane testified in a 1977 organ­ized crime investigation in Philadelphia by the U.S. secur­ities and Exchange Commission, said Thomas Monahan, the agency's Philadelphia assistant regional administrator. 
"It was the first criminal case the SEC ever had involv­ing organized crime," Monahan said Wednesday. 
Kane was one of several people across the country who had acted as front men for a ring of outside investors that tried to manipulate stock in the Magic Marker Corp. of Philadelphia, said Monahan. Later convicted in the scheme was Harry Blumenfeld of Miami Beach, identified by the Philadelphia Organized Crime Strike Force as a close associ­ate of reputed crime figure Meyer Lansky. 
"They were using (Kane's) name to hide the principals," said Monahan. "His account was used for transactions." The ring bought 18 percent of the Magic Marker shares, then tried to boost its price by bribing market writers and others. 
Monahan said he believed Kane was introduced to the scheme through another man more closely related to the ring. 
Kane's testimony, although not crucial, helped lead to the convictions of 20 people. 


ironwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND, IN 46635


Viewpoint
p~ge a Thursday, October 29, 1987 
USC band director displays lack of class 
Mter this weekend's USC game, a new definition of the word "classless" entered the dictionaries of all Domers. 
It reads: USC's band director. 
Eric M. Bergamo 
20 seconds into the future 
This individual hit a new high in low disregard for Notre Dame. Consider his . offenses. 
Exhibit one. This so-called "direc­tor" forced his charges to play that fight song of theirs over and over and over again. (I swear I heard it in my sleep that night, forcing me to wake up screaming "Enough, enough, go USC! Just stop playing that song!) Even after repeated crowd reactions to this end­less rendition, the band director contin­ued to make his band play their beloved fight song. Notice that the classy Notre Dame band does not play the fight song after every first down, unlike the USC band that plays it after their quarter­back is sacked. 
Don't you think that this band direc­tor was playing the song at the end of the game just to get us Domers angry? 
Exhibit two. USC's halftime show, which was very good, but was spoiled when Mr. USC Band Director decided to run after our gutsy leprechaun, Brian Stark, because he was making the halftime show a little more "in­teresting" for us. Now Mr. USC Band Director, did you think that we, consci­entious Notre Dame students, would be the least impressed by the psuedo­leprechaun of yours? No way, Jose. Maybe you could have asked our leprechaun, who is much better than your weak imposter, to be in your show. 
Boy, I think you would have gotten a lot more applause than you did. 
But the best offense is yet to come. 
Exhibit three. As the Notre Dame band was on the field, preparing to play "Notre Dame, Our Mother," Mr. USC Band Director thought it was just the right time to swing into the post-game show. I was quite surprised that a ram­paging group of Notre Dame students didn't tear across the field and stuff this idiot of a band director headfirst into a tuba. He surely deserved that kind of a fate. 
But, despite this glaring insult, the Notre Dame band lowered their instru­ments and did not play until the low­brow USC band stopped. Truly a class act, something Mr. USC Band Director should learn from. 
From the reaction of the students, I feel they wouldn't cry over the possi­bility that the USC band might never again travel to the friendly confines of Notre Dame Stadium. 
But more telling was the reaction of some band members. They were genuinely upset and insulted at the ac­tions of Mr. USC Band Director and they would also be glad to see the USC band go and never return. 
I don't feel that it has to come to that, but the director of the USC band should get a new attitude and take a few les­sons from their classy hosts. 
Eric M. Bergamo is a senior govern­ment major at Notre Dame and a reg­ular Viewpoint columnist. 
Grace Hall debates: an intellectual forum 
Last year marked the inception of the Grace Hall Debates, an event to be con­ducted annually by its home dormitory. Great success for the competition a year ago was markedly proven, evidenced by both the debators' skills 
Chris Leopold 
guest column 
and the audiences' enthusiasm. Thanks to then Assistant Rector of Grace, now turned Rector of Sorin Hall, Joe McKen­na, for his laying the solid foundation for the competition, Grace Hall is en­thusiastically preparing to host the debates again, beginning October 29 and running through November. 
For those who may be unfamiliar to the debates, the teams of debators are representatives from each section in Grace, which boasts twenty sections in total. Single elimination will ultimately lead to the two top teams competing for the championship. For each debate, a controversial topic will be assigned by the debating committee, with the teams arguing either the affirmative or negative side. The debates last year were far from two sides passively stating obvious points. Heated battles often ensued, and the true art of debate clearly was evinced. Aside from ser­ving as pure entertainment for the crowd, dozens of interesting as well as important facts emerged throughout the debates. Often these points helped question or even change the viewers' own personal stand on issues. Some of 
P.O. Box Q 
24-hour charity run needs your support 
Dear Editor: 
Once again it is time for the annual Grace Hall 24-hour run. This run is the largest of Grace Hall's many charitable fundraisers, the proceeds of which will benefit the Northeast Community Ser­vice Center in South Bend. The 24 hours are subdivided into smaller time inter­vals, all of which are run by Grace Hall residents. This year the run will com­mence on Friday, October 30, at 11:00 
Doonesbury 
a.m. with an appearance by guest run­ner Monk Malloy. 
Throughout the past, there has ex­isted some animosity between the South Bend community and the Notre Dame student body. By donating the proceeds of the run to the Northeast Community Service Center, Grace Hall hopes to im­prove relations between the two com­munities. Donations will be accepted throughout the run and the support of the Notre Dame student body would be appreciated. 
Bill O'Mahony John Whelan Grace Hall 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The News is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying c.pinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
the issues debated last year included the legal possession of hand guns, eut­hanasia, and the hiring of immigrant workers. Even if one believes he or she steadfastedly supports one side or the other, in all likelihood certain aspects of the arguments will help soften his or her own tunnel vision view. The art of debate can be an awe-inspiring beauty, filled with skilled rhetoric and pas­sionate emotions. It is an event all people should witness, especially during college years when one begins to form his or her own opinions regard­ing controversial issues in our compl­icated world. 
One must certainly give credence to the genuiness of the Grace Hall Debates. Certain sections last year boasted previous high school, nation­ally ranked debators. The judges who 
Garry Trudeau 

'/()(} $T 90'/o 15 THAT A 
OR. I G&T GUtSS1 HOW ~FFW IN70 Cf)M& YOU$& A CAR COM-GUYS [)()N'T 
PACT/3R '? GU&93 THAT 
\;---....,_,;;;,GOQ;..=.:'f}:....:~:..__~__: 

Editorial Board 
decide the winners are professors from 
throughout the university, each 
representing his or her own academic 
specialty in the related topics. 
Grace Hall is proud for the success 
it witnessed in its first year hosting the 
debates, and avidly awaits for the en­
suing second annual event. Grace Hall 
strongly encourages and warmly in­
vites all students to join us in this spe­
cial occurence. The debates will take 
place in Grace's "pit" on dates and 
times announced in The Observer, the 
first taking place Oct. 29. We guarantee 
all who attend will witness top flight 
debating, and more importantly learn 
many new opinions about important is­
sues in the world we live in today. 
Chris Leopold: Grace Hall Debate Committee 

Quote of the Day 
"There is no conversation more boring then the one where everyone agrees." 
Michel de Montaigne 

Editor·in·Chief ...  Kevin Becker  
Managing Editor  Mark Pankowski  
News Editor .. .  ..... Chris Bednarski  
News Editor .... .  ..... . ..  . ...... Jim Riley  
Viewpoint Editor. . .  .................... Chris Murphy  
Sports Editor .. .  Denms Corrigan  
Accent Editor .. .  . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Naughton  
Saint Mary's Editor  Sandy Cenmele  
Photo Editor ......  ..... Jim Carroll  

Operations Board 
Business Manager ........................... Bnan Murray Advertising Design Manager. .. ...... David Culligan Advertising Manager . ............... Melinda Chapleau Production Manager . ................... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager...... .. ..... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager . . . . . . . Shawn Sexton Controller.. .. .................... Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager . .................... Laura Stanton 

~--­

Accent
Thursday, October 29, 1987 page 9 
\1,, ....,,... 
Ul t. at I It I II \'
........... 
111\ltlt\\t' 
"Ill \IIU" ' t• \ tl t 1• \ It I ' I \1 flttl ' \I\' 
I k I t k t \ \I \ ' 
I • I I I I I I II
I ., 

II ''I I tU I U\ I 
I"Ul\tl' UUIII I\'\ f Ul,t.l hi u'....t ••• ' ,. " tU ' \HI ttl \1 U' t \\lt'tl't 'U\\ 


Boss searches for light 
at end of ''Tunnel'' 
MATT SITZER accent assistant editor 
F 
or the last 15 years, the popularity of Bruce Springsteen has been largely due to his image as a voice for the masses. Whether this voice was reflected in the adolescent rebelliousness of 1975's Born to Run or the early-Reagan years pessimism of Nebraska, Springsteen's albums have all gone on to reach anthem-like status with the American blue collar. 

With his latest album, Tunnel of Love, Springsteen continues In this same tradition, except this time something seems to be missing. Absent from many of the songs on the album Is that cruical element which had made his earlier working class hymns so palpable--hope. 
Gone also, are many of the stirring rock and roll chartbusters which attracted Springsteen so many new "psuedo fans" following the release of I984's Born In the 
U.S.A. and his subsequent world tour. 
If these people are expecting a comparable follow-up album, 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Bruce Springsteen Tunnel of Love 
they will certainly be sorely dis­
appointed. Listening to Tunnel 
of Love does not leave one In a 
particularly festive mood. Yet, 
this may not be entirely bad. 
The album opens rather un­
pretentiously with the bluesy. 
Introspective "Ain't Got You," 
which features an unaccom­
panied Springsteen possibly 
reflecting upon his rise to su­
perstardom ("When I walk 
down the street people stop 
and stare I Well you'd think I 
might be thrilled but baby I 
don't care"). Springsteen 
clearly does not seem to be 
revelling in his fame. 
Many of the following songs echo the tone and tempo of the first. In fact, It Is not until the bayou flavored fourth track "Spare Parts" that we get any hint of the backbeat and rhythm which made Springsteen so famous. Even then, the tune epitomizes the hopeless, despairing theme Inherent throughout much of the album. The chorus conveys this Idea effectively, albeit quite pesslmistlciy ("Spare parts I And broken hearts I Keep the world turnln' around"). 
Although the most commer­cially successful song on the album will most likely be the already overplayed "Brilliant Disguise, " the true jewel of the album Is most certainly the title track. E Street Band member Roy Blttan's systheslzers and Nils Lofgren's guitar blend per­fectly with Springsteen's in­cisive lyrics to create the Coney Island atmosphere around which the song revolves. 
Springsteen uses the song to convey the fear and confusion felt by many In today's younger generation. He seems to be telling us that we must keep searching hard to flnd the goodness In the world ("But the house Is haunted and the ride gets rough I And you've got to live with what you can't rise above ..."). 
The bleak "One Step Up" picks up the bail where "Tunnel of Love" left off, further accen­tuating the idea that something Is definitely wrong In the world­-or, at least, in Springsteen's world (''I'm slttln' here In this bar tonight I But ail I'm thlnkln' is /I'm the same old story, same old act ..."). 
This is definitely not an al­bum for everybody. For those who have Identified with Springsteen over the years and have stuck with him through thick and thin, this album will simply be seen as a new direc­tion for "the Boss." However, for those expecting a carbon copy of Born In the U.S.A, Tunnel of Love may prove to be a great disappointment. 
Bill Watterson 






Concerned with the stock market? 
Complied by Cara Anthony and Kathy Ellis Photos by Mike (Jry 
"The stock market Is going through a substantial correction. A full-scale recession Is unlikely. If you have a lot of courage, you might want to throw some money Into It, but the best thing to do Is to walt and buy stock on the uptick." 
Patrick J. McDonnell Certified public accountant Class of 1965 

"It affected my father and he was really upset. but I really don't un­derstand the stock market." 
Suzl Crlqul Freshman Walsh Hall 

"Alii know Is that mycollege edu­cation Is lost because all my money was In stocks." 
Brad Mayer Freshman Keenan Hall 



"I think that the people who didn't buy originally or sold before the crash who Invest now will make a fortune In the next six months." 
John Mosier Sophomore Cavanau.gh Hall 

"It's not all bad. My dad Is In com­modities and It's been good for him. I think It has made us more tlnanclally aware." 
Jennifer "Zooma" Zlma Junior Breen-Phlllips 

"All that money that got lost-I want to know where It went." 
Michelle Lynch Junior Breen-Phllllps 

"My mom lost a little bit of money. She's upset about that. It hasn't affected me too much yet. I think It will go back up." 
Claudia Augur Freshman Lewis Hall 

"I pulled everything out before It happened. I thought It was going to level out, but I don't know anymore." 
Bill f'ltzpatrlck Sophomore Alumni Hall 



Thursday, October 29, 1987 
page 10 The Observer 
Tile....._Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· cs.nt Center, .ccepta clauifled ectw.tl86ng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tlw ....._s.lnt Mery'a office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cent81', accepts c~from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next4ay clualfledsls3 p.m. All clualfleds must
Classifieds be prepMI, elthef In penon Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five charKt8l's per day. 
RETIRED NO PROF. & WIFE NEED EX· ••• PINK FLOYD TIX ••• SURVEYIII SURVEYIII SURVEY!!!
$$$$$$ NEED NAVY TIX II stud or GA WILL TRADE 2 BC GA'S FOR 2 NAVY PERIENCED DRIVER TO TUCSON, AZ for safe for their concert at Indy's Hoosier THE FIRST ANNUAL STUDENT BODY 
can Karen 271·0585 GA'S CALL 2734 
FOR XMAS BREAK. ALL EXPENSES Dome on Nov. 12th. Calf Annette £2488 SURVEY IS COMINGIII PAID. CALL 232-5097 PROF. KEN· WILL TRADE OR PAY $ for BC tix. call MY DID SAID "GIT ME SUM BAMA WATCH FOR IT IN YOUR MAILBOXII! NEDY. Rich 283·2144 TICKETS OR YU'LL BE OED" (HE'S FROM BAMA IF YOU CANT GUESS). ECONOMIC COLLAPSE IS IMMINENT! ooooooooooooooooooooo•••••••••••••••••••••••••••o.t••oooooooooooo or at least mine is anyway if I don't get 
NOTICES 

I need 4 tickets to lhe Alabama game, 2 Navy tickets for my family call Dan atTYPING AVAILABLE 
FOR SALE Ga's and 2 student. Call £3251 and ask NAVY GA'S for Chris. Will pay MUGHO DINERO II 287·4082 
£3444 OUT OF CONTROL 
PSYCHO EXPLOSION PART II: THE Logan Volunteers! NIGHTMAFIE CONTINUES 
FOR SALE 

CALL 2086 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. Halloween Dance This Friday! SAT NIGHT ·COME IN THE OUT·TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL PAT AT 283-3859.
CALL CHRIS 

6:00 PM sat up at Logan RAGEOUS COSTUME OF YOU CHOICE
234·8997 

HOW Bring Your Costume!
FEATHERED MASKS UNIQUE NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· Will trade 2 BC GA'slor 2 Barna GA'o. . ................. SHOP AT COUNTRY HARVESTER ETS TO ALABAMA vo. NOTRE DAME Call Marla at £4559 
NOoSMC Council lor the Retarded HEY CUBI ·HERE IT 1St HAPPY FOR YOUR TREATS LAFORTUNE BIRTHDAY TO THE WOMAN OF MY
GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL 237-1949 or 277-8131 
Typing 

BASEMENT NOON·5 P.M. COLLECT (814) 535-9490 BEFORE 5 ......YOU REALLY NEED NAVY GA'S DON'T DREAMS LOVE KK OR (814) 266-4494 AFTER 5 PM. YOU? WELL I'VE GOT 'EM ........... Tired of studying? FOR SALE!! RESTAURANTAlAR NEAR AND I'LL TRADE YOU FOR 2·4 BC GA'S Burn the books and party with CAMPUS. OWNERS SELLING AT ANOOR STUD. TICKETS ......g ..... THE BOTIOM LINE IF I COULD SAVE TIME IN A
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL NEEDED: 2 NAVY GAs VINCE 271·9441 
WELL BELOW ORIGINAL COST. BUS!· This Tuesday and Thursday at CHIPS BOTILE...THE FIRST THING HAT I'D
...................... CALL DAN AT 1858 CALL DAN AT 1858 
MRS. COKER 233·7009. 

NESS MAJORS. APPLY YOUR HARD NEED 2 BC TICKETS.' .CALL ..KRis CALL DAN AT 1858 ......5 $2.50 PITCHERS TUESDAY DIME LIKE TO DO.. IS TO SAVE EVERY DAY EARNED EDUCATION AND OWN A DRAFTS THURSDAY BOTIOM LINE at TILL ETERNITY PASSES AWAY AND
X2800. BUSINESS EVERY COLLEGE KID Chips THEN I WOULD SPEND IT WITH YOU.: 
TERRIE'S TYPING WORD PROCESS· 

NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE 'RENTS ·NAVY WANTS! 277·0352 AFTERNOONS. HAPPY B·DAY KATHY .......... TOMMY lNG, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, LETIER 
GAME ·CALL ANNETIE 271·0205 Need Alabama tickets -GA'sQUALITY PRINTER, WORD PERFECT, 
$1.50 SS, $1.25 OS, 287·1283 

STUDENT TICKETS FOR NAVY, BC, Call Bill O'Hara Need cash fast? ... We need help selling KATHY BREHL YOU DID NOT HAVE
$$$Beer Need 2GA's for Navy Call Scott BAMA FOR SALE. CALL 2025 BEFORE 295·1900 ext.319 fastl TO TAKE LAURA'S CHEEZE BALL CAN 
at 1111 or 1112 THURSDAY MIDNIGHT OF EACH between B·5pm Help sell the single 100 YEARS a tribute AND MARJORIE'S TOOTHPASTE..WEGRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL 
DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES 

GAME. to N.D. football. call Peter x1672 or Paula WOULD HAVE GIVEN THEM TO YOU
NEED 1 NAVY GA PLEASE CALL x3764 NOW! TODAY'S YOUR BIRTHDAY!! HAPPYGRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL 
MEGAN 271-0784. FOR SALE II BOOk external disk drive for HELP! I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S CALL MATI 19TH SEXY FACE!
DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES 
GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL 

a Mac system. Less than a year old. $200 x1686 HARMANMARDON CASSETTE DECK
GIRLS: AIRLINE TICKET SOUTH BEND firm. Call Bob 239·7666 if interested. MODEL 291 for sale. Asking $190. 2 VOLUNTEERS NEEDED to keep score DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES 
TO BOSTON FOR SALE. NOV. 23· NEED BOSTON COLL. GA TIXI Will pay years old, works like a dream! Complete for mentally retarded bowlers every FriGRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL 
3:15PM DEPARTURE···CALL 284· Navy GA'a.S40,nagot. £2685 big bucks. Call Joe after 6pm at 287·4561 packaging, manuals. Call 287·8249 if in· 3:45 meet PW lobbyDEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES 
4271. terested.
GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL 
DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES 

FOR SALEIIII I'M SELLING "TWO" NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CALL TONY HEY DAVEYIII Thanks for the care
I NEED ALABAMA (NOV.14) G.A.'S BY NAVY GA'SII CALL SHANNON AT x3348. 2 FREE MIAMI TICKETS package ... ! appreciate all you do for me. 
GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL 

TONIGHTIII ··CALL TONY 2149·-L £33561 Your friend ALWAYS, KarenDEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES 
GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL 

NEED BC & ALABAMA TIX IN A BIG Join ua lor our Grand Opening week
NEED 2 NAVY GA's $30. JIM x1584. WAY. WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE of activities at the LaFortune Banking 0 holy St. Jude, Apostle & Martyr,DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES 
GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL £ ROUND TRIP TICKETS 

NAVY TIX (GA & STUD). CALL JOHN Center ol tha St. Joseph Bank. Great In VIrtue & Rich In Miracles, Near 
II you got $$$, I have NAVY Tlx. TwoDEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES valid anywhere lor alractlon of airline 
AT 3451. October 28-31 Kinsman of Jeaua Christ, faithful ln­
palra available. Call Chuck (the Rockcoat tarcasaor of all who Invoke your aidGRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL Godt) 283-1877DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES call John x2012 
I need 1 Navy GA or Stud. ticket. Call . Food & Relraahmenta all week long In time of need, to you I have recourseGRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL x4016 ask for Jerry. I need 1, and only one Navy stud tix, . Free Grand Opening gilt (while aup­& from the depth of my heart I humblyDEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES For Sale:Macintosh 512E computer 
thank you, Kevin 1560 pllealaat) beg to whom God has given ouch""OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 GRACE w1!00k disk drive inc all manuals, 
HELP HELP HELP HELP . Grand Opening Halloween Dance at great power to come to my aaalatanca.
PIT OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 •• MacWritef>aint. Price negotiable. Call 

NEED MANY BC TX Theodore• Oct. 29, 9 pm. Help me In my present & urgent pall·
BUT YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND THE""OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 GRACE x2093 
STUD AND GA CALL TONY 2067 Band: DM 51 lion. In return I promise to make your
IMPORTANCE.. $100 lor beat costume. name known & to cause you to be 
2, 3 or 4 GA'S WANTED FOR ALABAMA Free anacka. Invoked. Say 3 "Our Fathers", 3 "Hall PIT OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 •• 
I NEED 1 NAVY STUD. TIX 1560 KEVIN GAME -CALL BILL x3366 Free drawing lor myatery prize. Marya" & 3 "Giorlaa". PublicationBABY SITIING SERVICES AVAILABLE 
TEL:277 ·3718 I have U2 tickets for sale or trade. Call 
Tlcketa are FREE and available at the muat be promised. St. Jude pray lorTICKETS Need 2 or 4 BC GA's. Willing to pay. Call LaFortune Banking Center. us & all who Invoke your ald. Amen.
Branch Rickey at 2005. Dave at x3200 St. Juda, thla novena has never beenMARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 
277-1015 DAY. 

. Raglater to win an all expense paid known to fall.
NEED NAVY GA's. Big Bucks! Call Todd 
Need Navy student ticket. Call Kim 2615 trip lor 2 to the Nov. 28, Notre Dame
288·2032
if you can help out. va Miami gama. if you insist on fooling I'll be forced to 
$$$$$ 

-Free travel and 3 nlghta of deluxe ac­flog you with a chinchillaNEED 2 GA'S OR STUDENT TIX FORI Need 2 GA's to USC & Navy call Dan 
BC TIX commodations provided by Travel­It won't be pretty
I LOST/FOUND I 

THE NAVY GAME. 
3319 
NEED Stud Or GA, Call TIM at 1038 more'Aak Mr. Foatar.
CALL TRISHA AT 232-1345
CASH -2 Free tlck•ta plus 5100. You can register now through Nov. 5, DEAR HUN
I HAVE TWO STUDENT NAVY TICKETS NEED 1 GA FOR BC 
at the LaFortune Banking Canter. For the hugs and the smiles. For listemng CALL SHAWN AT 2235
LOST -Gold Cross and Chain FOR SALE TO THE HIGHEST BIDDERI NEED 2 BAMA G.A.a. PLEASE CALL and talking. For keeping me going whenSentimenlal Value ..pfease call Doug BY 9 PM THURSDAY. CALLJOHN 283· 
MARC AT 288-7105.$$$$$$$$$$$$ HOURS I was falling behind and calming me down
2327 2127 
Mon.-Frl.. ... 1Oam to 7pm when things got crazy. For being there I NEED ALABAMA TIX Saturday..... lOam to 1pm when the world was falling apart and call· 
REWARD: MY GRANDMOTHER'S NEED B.C.,BAMA TIX·CHRIS 1609
WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? 

CALL X3811 ing when you needed someone. For let· HEART·SHAPED LOCKET AND CHAIN Then uU me your BC GA'a ao my ting me take care of you and tak1ng care
CALL 6712 A.M. OR 233·1296 aletera, coualna, and unclea can see NEED NAVY GA'S ??? CALL X2799 Going to U2 Nov 1? Need a ride? Take of me like no one has ever done before. 
EVENINGS. 

the Eeglealoulllllll Cell Steve at 232· 
NEED B.C. STUDENT TICKETS CALL our bus! Call 284·5016 or 4357 For a wondertul past and a beautiful
NAVY GA'S FOR SALE 282-29779818. 
VAZ AT 271·0579 PAY BIG $$$ lifetime to come. For loving me the wayREWARD REWARD REWARD BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX BRADY BUNCH FILM FESTIVAL that you do. THANK YOU (me)REWARD REWARD REWARD I NEED 1 STUDENT TIC OR GA FOR
BC TIX 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. PLEASE CALL COMING SOON
REWARD WED. BEFORE BREAK I NAVY. PLEASE CALL CORY 3561 
................................................................ 
NED AT 3515! 
LEFT A GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WITH CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER "MESTROVICH IS

A RED STRIPE IN THE SOUTH DINING DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. G.A.s call 
FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES IIIII! 
LOST: GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WIRED EVERYWHERE,MESTROVICH IS
HALL AT LUNCH. MY MOTHER GAVE £1852, ask lor Bryan. Will pay $$$. 
STRIPE IN S. DINING HALL ON WED. EVERYTHING, MESTROVICH ISME THAT SHIRT BEFORE SHE 
WHAT THE COST! Patrick 271·0477 BEFORE BREAK. MY MOTHER GAVE EVERYBODY, MESTROVICH IS STILL
RETURNED TO PANAMA. IT IS MY FA· ................................... DESPERATE Student willing to pay 
ME THIS SHIRT BEFORE SHE THE KING!!"
VORITE SHIRT AND I MISS MY MOT· .................................. major dollars for 4 Barna tix. (G.A.or
2 Navy GAs needed. Please call Jim RETURNED TO PANAMA. IF YOU
HER VERY MUCH. IF YOU FOUND IT stud.) call Hugh at 2120.
£3278 FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. I WILL TEN CENT DRAFTSPLEASE CALL 2359. REWARD 
I really, really, really need 1 Alabama 
PAY YOU$$$ at CHIPS
REWARD REWARD REWARD WANTED: One student Barna ticket. I'm
ticket. 

NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR NAVY with
REWARD REWARD REWARD willing lo sport you major $. Call Dave
Student or GA will do. Call John at 283· 
CALL JULIE 4128 OR 3714 "LIKE TO PERFORM WITH A TOP THE BOTIOM LINE
at 4779 or 2120.
2445. 

NAME PERFORMER FROM HBO?" $1.00
LOST BLACK LEATHER GLOVE be· 

NEED NAVY GAS$$$$ 288·7033 STAY TUNED FOR DETAILS. 10 BEERS
tween Howard and Administration Build· I have your Alabama tickets BUT.... I
********************************* BE AT CHIPS TONIGHT (THURSDAY)
ing on Tuesday, October 27. To return, ................................. need BC tickets; will trade staight across
NEED BC TIX. CALL 272-6282. $$$$$. 
DAVE IS THE NADS!
please call 2548 or return to Lost and call me pleasel!lll Meleah x2674 Found. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2·6 BAMA GA'S THANK GOD, DAVE IS HERE, HEY O'SHAG... TO N.D.'S OTHER BOSTON COLLEGE GA's 
Need U2 ticket for Barna tix and $$$,
$$$DAD WILL PAY$$$ CALL JIM AT 
CALL HIM AT 1045 HEISMAN CANDIDATE... DONT BE
LOST: WOULD TtiE PERSON WHO Dan 1167
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME 

283·3669 . SUPERSTITIOUS ON FRIDAY THETOOK THE CRAYONS FROM LEWIS Big, Big cash offered for BC GA's I'm 13TH, JUST SAY YOU'LL GO TO THE
HALL'S SYR PLEASE RETURN THEM Need a Navy Stud. Tickel?
holding your family hostage 
NAVY GAs 2 Needed, Kevin 289·8216 KEVIN DUGGAN-Tell me lies: tell me WALSH FORMAL WITH Ml (ME). P.S.
TO KATH' ,N AM. 417 OR PATIY IN Trade me a Barna Stud. Ticket
Please call Chris X 1489 after 5 sweet little lies. For pictures call 272· OR WOULD THAT BE TOO GAY???
RM. 423. THANKS. Dave 1801 3694. 
NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG $$$$$ $$$$$$ Need 'Barna G.A.'s 272· PEGGY McGUIRE You're nica. I'mIF YOU HAPPENED TO TAKE MY BUCKS!! CALL JOE 287·4561 after 
4162 LOST GOL[}BRONZE EARRINGS ... real, ... l'm sorry. ALFONSO
CHEMISTRY BOOK FROM NORTH I NEED ABC STUDENT OR GA TICKET 
6pm. 
wire-looped, triangles... lost between
DINING HALL I WOULD APPRECIATE FOR A MEMBER OF TED KENNEDY'S
NEED BC TICKETS! 
south quad and football stadium day of Will sell tickets to sold out REM concert
IT RETURNED. I CANT AFFORD TO STAFF CALL STEVE X1654
BC MUST HAVE 2 STUDENT OR GAs USC game ... Please call 2548 or return Nov 5 UIC Pavillion if you have a ride.
BUY A NEW BOOK SO IF YOU WOULD Yep, I need two GAs for the Boston Col· Call Marty at 239-7569 to Lost and Found. Thank You. Dave x1304

JUST PUT IT BACK ON THE SHELF NEED BC OR 'BAMA TIX. CALL 303·
lege game. Please call Mike at 271-0765. WHERE YOU FOUND IT I WOULD BE 278-0985. 
HELPINEED TICKET FOR BC Anyone going to THAT PETROL EMO­FOREVER GRATEFUL! 
Need 2 Navy GAs ? I'll trade 2 Navy GAs CALL AT TION Nov 6? I NEED A RIDE! II
DESPERATEL VI ROB 234· on DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? 
for 2 B.C. GAs. Call Bryan at 4280 ASAP 7166 there's any room In your car, please
Lost: Gold St. Christopher medal sur· FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT NEEDS 4
IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS call Kathy 2823.
rounded by 10 small pearls with Maureen B.C. GA'S REACH HIM CO MATI 283·
WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL 
Uncle Dick atlll needa 2 Navy G.A.'a. U2 TIX FOR SALE!
Inscribed on the back. Extreme sentimen· 3549
SUE AT X4238 
Call Chuck (the rock God!). 283-1877 INDY CONCERT, NOV. 1 HAPPY BIRTHDAY, TIM LAKEtal value. Lost on Saturday Oct. 24. 
CALL 2064 Love, Mom, Dad and Susan.
REWARD nfound. Call (818) 795-7535 Desperately need BC tickets. Will paycollect and ask for Mary. 

Needed lots of$. Call Becky 277·3835 K 4 Navy GA's and 2 stud fix call Brian Happy 19th Birthday to that COLORADO WHY ARE YOU YOU? You make me
I HAVE A BROWN LEATHER JACKET 1456 DESPERATELY NEED Beauty: KATHY SHANNON The DUCK smile with my heart ... 
WHICH WAS RETURNED TO ME BUT 

BC TIX ClubIT IS NOT MINE. I WANT TO RETURN 
Needed KEVIN X 2388 RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO-WEST
IT TO ITS OWNER BUT AT THE SAME PERSONALS ································································ 
4 Navy GA's & 2 stud tix call Brian at 'BURBS FRI. OCT 30 PAY GAS I AMTIME I WANT MINE BACK. IF YOU 
1456 FAT BRODIE FOR DESPARATEIII CALL SMC-4083LOST A JACKET OR HAVE FOUND DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. STUD. 
BAND PRESIDENTONE AT 103 CAMPUS VIEW, PLEASE 
HELP I TIX OR GA'S. PLEASE CALL DIANE • Hellooooo...Margaret Mary Doyle (Mag)! 
CALL 284-5437. 

DESPARATEL Y NEED 273511 They took my Out Runl Have a great 19th B·dayl 1 NAVY GA . Luv,Hyde,Lynard,Marshmellow,Murph,T.B. PLEASE CALL SCOTI X1640 NEED NAVY & BAMA TIXIII SUSIE OUT OF CONTROL Party In tha Snlte? One,"Cutie" X2919 PSYCHO EXPLOSION PART II: THE Preposterous! "Soft Chairs and Free Piz· za" Join the STUDENT LIAISON COM· Call one sweetheart of a girl and wish TICKETS NEEDED I need 1 Navy student or GA ticket. MITIEE Thursday Oct. 29 at 5:30 in the her a happy B·day. Make her dreams
FOR RENT 

W•lthy Wall St. Alum needa Penn St. Please call Mike at 283-1661. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Snita Board Room. come true I Meg 284·4427 end BC tlx. Cell Matt 1·8()().223-6559. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Need 4 Boston C.·ND tlx. GA or Std. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. THE LEPRECHAUN IS HERE! GET YOUR TEAMS TOGETHER DESPERATELY NEED 10·15 NAVY Pairs preferred. Good bucks. Call 233· TODAY I aiio··:;;,-··aii'iiA.iCF:As:r··ii'ooi.48''j;Ciii G.A.'s AND TWO BC STUDENT TICS. 2651. DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? Sqt. Robin (Darling) Squyres, I love wo­SMC INTRAMURALS PRESENTS: 
NOV. GAME CALL TODD AT 2937 or 1050. IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS men with authority. Your most loyal cadet 4 ON 4 CO-ED VOLLEYBALL WEEKENDSORADUATION. 1-218-HELP!. .. HELP ME SHOW A BC STU· WILL BUY THEM! WILL PAY $$$1 CALL ENTRIES AVAILABLE AT ANGELA 281·7153. I JUST WON A MILLION FROM ED DENT WHAT IT REALLY MEANS TO SUE AT X4238 Rocky, You shouldn'l trick people. Nei· ATHLETIC TODAY! MCMAHON AND NEED 5 BAMA STUD BE A CATHOLIC. I WANT TO TRADE !her should I. Your Buddy at HC TIX. CALL MARK X3371 (PS. HAVE AN ALABAMA STUD. TICKET OR $$ LAST CHANCEl Limited apace NEED BC TIX·CALL KATHY 284-5531 KEENAN REVUE TIX) FOR A BC STUD OR GA. IF YOU CAN remalna on Notre Dame Winter Ski To the girl who spit her milk in North HELP CALL MIKE AT 3419 OR 3413. Breaks to Steamboat, Vall, Winter Park Dining Hall-rVERY CRUDEIII·Ihe rest of DUNN ONCEWANTED NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL THANKS. and Breckenridge lor live or uven DUNN TWICE
NOH 

-
JOHN AT 3064 nlghte deluxe lodging, 1111 tlckete, DUNNIGAN HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HOPE BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDS! Call mountain barbecue, aid.._ end more TO THE BEST LOOKING AIRMAN IN IT'S A GOOD ONE, MARY! IF YOU'LL SELL ME 2 BC TIX FOR A John 271-0939 from only $154. Optional air and MISS: I hope you don't mind I hope you LOVE,DANIELLE,KATIE & MERIDITH wanted babysitter for five month old baby REASONABLE PRICE, CALL 283·2916. charter bua tranaportatlon aYIIIIable. don't mind That I put down in words How ....., HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S••••••• BEST
two days a week tuesday and thursday Hurry, call Suncheee Toura toll frN wondsrfullffe Is while you're in the world Jan, Thanx lor the sheep and lor being 11pm til 3pm ten minutes lrom Notre I NEED OM FOR ALL HOME OFFER OR TRADE FOR 2 BAMA TIX lor lull demlla and color brochure, 1-I LOVE YOU, CDS!! Your favorite BUlL T a reallrlend In a world full of pseudos. 1 Dame call 287 8087 alter 4pm GAMES.272-6308 NANCY X2841 100-321-6111 TODAY! honey yud ya. Love, Sue 


The Observer page 11 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
lnterhall football playoffs swing Into action this weekend. Tim Sul­livan profiles the remaining six teams at right. 
lnterhall 
continued from page 16 
tion mark. 

The Large Dorm Division Champion played great foot­ball for four weeks and looked like a true powerhouse -until they ran into Flanner in the last week of the season. 
Flanner beat Dillon 6-0 in a game full of key turnovers, and now Dillon will have to face Flanner again in the first game of the playoffs. It's do-or-die time for the Big Red. 
Dillon's key weapon through­out the season has been fresh­man running back Tim Murphy. His ball carrying along with Steve Murphy's re­ceiving helped the Big Red to a 55-14 point advantage this season. 
Dillon's challenge will be to avenge that lone loss, but if it does, it will then be faced with a strong, but smaller, Pangborn team -Dillon's path to the trophy is a rocky one. 
Alumni (3-1) 

What a turnaround! 
The once-proud Dogs are back on their feet again. 
Alumni entered the season with something to prove. The 1986 version of the Alumni team went 0-5, and a repeat of that performance just wouldn't do. 
Well, the Dogs put together a team loaded with freshmen, coached by democracy, and full of spirit -the result was a 3-1 record and a spot in the playoffs. 
"The best part of our team," said player-coach Mike Brcik, "is that we have unity. We're all students and we all coach together. 
I -----------.., Alumni has utilized a potentI s~20AUCKLAND ·COPENHAGEN· TOKYO· LONDON S2Q" I passing attack thus far this 
B • 
~ 
I 0 X MAS 
I ~ 
NOW! 
I ~ Space is rapidly selling-out for low Christmas overseas ~airfares. BOOK NOW, pay by Nov. 15 and we'll giveI ~ you $20 off yourfare with this coupon. Call today for 
e; reservations! Not valid with other promotions. 
I~ ~STUDENT 
S20 (312) 525-9227 C::J~ ~~~~RK S20 
season and that's not about to -o Ichange. Freshman John Neiers ~ has been excellent at quarter­~ I back for the Dogs, his two fa­
Fisher will be tough, espe-
L ----------~ •••••••••••••••••••••IMcially if they are overlooked. 
~ I voriW r~eivern b:m;~.Fla:er wu good, 
very good -but they have also 
showed signs of mediocrity. 
In games like a 24-7 rout of Grace or the key 6-0 victory over Dillon, the Flannerites looked like the powerful squad they have the potential to be. At other times, though, -like in a 7-6 loss to Keenan -the Flan­ner seemed lackadaisical. 
One thing the Flanner team has plenty of is experience. This year marks the third season in a row that Flanner has made the playoffs. 
Flanner relies heavily on two people. On offense, running back Dave Kane is the key weapon. Kane handles the ball a large percentage of the time behind Flanner's huge offen­sive line. 
The integral part of Flan­ner's defense is linebacker Brian Freisen. The sophomore has only played in two games this season due to injury, but his return for the playoffs makes Kelly happy. 
"He's all over the field, and he really hits," said Kelly. "There's no way you can't notice him on the field." 
Despite the fact that the Flannerites have already beaten Dillon once, there's no way that they are taking their first-round playoff opponent lightly. 
The key for Flanner could be whether or not they show up ready to play. 
Fisher (3-0-1) 
Fisher is a team with an image problem. First, they come from the Small Dorm Division. On top of that -they weren't even the champions of the SDD. Teams may be taking the Green Wave too lightly. 
The Green Wave used an old­fashioned wishbone to pile up 48 points in four games. Two freshmen, Mick Greene and Pat Murphy (4 TD's), have led Fisher on offense. 
The powerful defense (only seven points allowed in four games) has been led by sopho­more Jim Turecek whose 'big plays and leadership' at linebacker have been an in­spiratiion. 
"We've got to take these games one at a time," said Fis­her coach Chris Carlson. "First, we've got to get past Alumni; then Stanford. We're just looking for the chance to play them -then we'll see what happens." 
ICE COLD BEER 
Frank's Place Liquors 
Mr. L's Liquors 413 Hickory Road
327 W. Marion-Two blocks 
Across from Town andsouthwest of Memorial Hospital Country Shopping CenterHours:Mon.-Sat. 1Oam 'til 1am 5 minutes from ND 232-2277 Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 1Oam-11 pm 

~ I 
s;:: ;.... I 
~ 
~I 

end, Pete Skiko and his 
wideout, Mike Cihak. 
In order to qualify for the playoffs, Alumni took a hard­fought, 8-0 victory over Cavanaugh. Brcik scored the lone touchdown of the game on a six yard run. 
Alumni's first playoff test in two years wil be against a team with even less playoff experi­ence-Fisher. The Green Wave with its stifling defense will be a tough challenge for the offen­~iye !!!ind~d Dogs. 
With the likes of Fisher and then the hallowed Stanford team in its way, Alumni's big­gest test may just be surviving the playoffs. 
Pangborn (3-0-1) 
Pangborn dominated the Small Dorm Division with a high powered offense and a very strong defense -but dominating the SDD is a bit dif­ferent than playoff competition against the likes of Dillon, Flanner, and Stanford. 
It just might be that this Small Dorm Division team is too small. Pangborn will face the winner of the Dillon-Flanner game, and Dillon and Flanner are two of the biggest teams in the entire interhall league. 
Despite scoring 77 points in the regular season, Pangborn's defense is its strongpoint. The Pangbornites have allowed only 13 points this season. 
Pangborn's running attack is keyed on two men -fullback Dan Bailey and tailback Greg Defilippo. Their running and the occassional 'keep 'em honest' pass by quarterback John Jacobs allowed Pangborn to tear through the Small Dorm Division. 
"I don't know if we've got the best team," said Sherman, "but in one game, anything can happen." 
Flanner (2-1-2) Flanner is the ~ost difficult playoff team to ftgure out. 
~ flllln<J ~ TflTIOfl ·~ 
~ 
-Thursday­$1.30 Elephant Beer 
good throuQh 

Everyday prices -Case Beer, Cans
Sale Prices ICY1Ml7 
unless otherwise nnted 
Stroh's 30 pack $7.89 Miller Lite $7.99 

r&1&iiM 

Schaeffer $4.99 Pabst $6.89 
Imports Sale 
Corona $16.99 
"Great" Liquor and Wine Specials 
Join us for our Halloween Party in Frank's Place Lounge -Fun & Prizes 
Prices are subject to change at any time • Quantity while supplies last 

Budweiser $8.79 Bud Lite $8.79 Busch $7.59 Goebels $5.89 Hamms $6.89 Little Kings Case $6.19 Lowenbrttu bottles $10.69 Maister Brau $5.89 Michelob and Lite bottles $10.69 
Fri.-Sat. 1Dam-midnight 
Miller $8.79 Miller Draft $8.79 Miller Lite $8.79 Milwaukee's Best $5.89 Old Milwaukee and Lite $5.89 Old Style $7.99 Pabst $6.89 Schlitz $5.99 Schaeffer $5.89 Stroh's 30 pack $8.59 
Import-Bottles 
Corona $18.89 Heineken $16.89 Heineken Dark $16.89 Moosehead ~:14.29 Molson $12.89 

----·~ -•-= -~ ---~T--­
--~-----------··-----~ ----­
Thursday, October 29, 1987
page 12 The Observer 
Golf's newest tournament is also the richest and most controversial 

raised eyebrows on the tour. 
Injuries 
continued from page 16 
But at the Naval Academy, 
just about everyone knows. 
Notre Dame is always a big 
game for the Midshipmen, who 
seem to have more rivalries 
than they know what to do with. 
Perhaps the Irish would pay 
more attention to the rivalry if the recent series was a little closer. Last year's 33-14 victory over Navy was the 23rd in a row for Notre Dame over the Middies. The last Navy quar­terback to beat the Irish was Roger Staubach in 1963. 
BEER 

Pabst 24 cans ... $6.59 Meister Brau 24 cans ... $4.79 Stroh's 30 pak ... $7.59 Busch 24 can ... $5.99 Michelob 24 can ... $9.99 Michelob Light 24 can ... $9.99 Hammes 24 cans ... $5.99 Lite 24 can ... $7.79 
BEER Q(JARTS 
Budweiser ... $10.99 Bud Light ... $10.99 Busch ... $9.99 
KEGS 

Bud 15.6 gal ...$28.99 Old Milwaukee 15.6 gal ... $23.99 Busch 15.6 gal ... $26.69 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas -The money -all $3 million of it -is wonderful, said Greg Norman. 
But should it count? 
The Australian raised the question Wednesday on the eve of the Nabisco Championships of Golf, the richest tournament golf has ever seen. 
Norman is among the elite 30 golfers who are competing for $2 million, with $360,000 to the winner, in the Championships of Golf. 
In addition, the tournament that begins Thursday on the Oak Hills Country Club course serves as the culmination of the Nabisco Grand Prix of Golf, a season-long point list based on players' performances in regular-season events. 
Another $1 million, with $175,000 to the winner, will be distributed in the Grand Prix competition. 
And that money will be "of­ficial," meaning that it will count toward the season's money-winning lead. It is the first time so-called bonus money -anything other that ac­tual tournament prize money ­has been counted as official. 
"This offsets what happens on the golf course," said Nor­man, the "Great White Shark" who led the American and Australian tours in money­winnings last season. 

"It penalizes the guy like me -and there are only a few of us -who travel a lot and don't play the 25 to 28 tournaments a year in this country that you have to play to be competitive in the Grand Prix. 
"If they had this last year, I wouldn't have won the money title," Norman said. 
"I think they have to intro­duce something to be more fair to everyone," he said. Then he offered a disclaimer. 
"Of course, it's my decision to play abroad instead of playing here all the time," he said. 
Ben Crenshaw had a differ­ent view. 
"This tournament was meant to be a bonus, a reward for the fellows who have played the best all year. 
"It was meant to be an im­portant, season-ending tourna­ment. It's certainly that," Crenshaw said. 
Norman quickly agreed that "the bottom line is that it's great for all of us to be playing for this kind of money." 
In addition to the enormous prize money to be distributed, such important titles as Player of the Year and leading money­winner will be decided this week, along with the finals of the team charity competition, in which another $1.4 million in charitable contributions will be determined. 
Curtis Strange is a central figure in most of the races that end this week. 
He leads Paul Azinger in both the Player of the Year and money-winning races, and is in front in the Grand Prix stand­ings. 
TONIGHT! 9:00-1:00 
snackS

flfll.;\\\ ~~-~ free

~Dance 
*Register to win free trip 
for two to the Miami game! ! 
Live Band!!! DM-51 plays at 9:30 
l$100 prize .for best costume I 
Friday: 9:00-2:00 COSTUME BALL 
co-sponsored by SUB 
Saturday: CLOSED 
Sunday: 12:00-6:00 
Tacos, tacos, tacos All y·ou can eat!! For only $2.00 
OPEN 9-9 
THRU HALLOWEEN 
~Stoner~ ~FUNSfORES 
THE HALLOWEEN SPECIALISTS 
OUR NEW STORE ON 305 S. MICHIGAN ST. IS STOCKED FULL AND READY FOR ALL YOUR HALLOWEEN NEEDSI 9:00-9:00 MON.·SAT. 12-5 SUNDAY ON MICH. ST. BElWEEN WAYNE & WESTERN NEXT TO CORNUCOPIA RESTAURANT -DOWNTOWN 

CITY-WIDE LIQUORS 
3825 N. Grape Rd. WINE 
NEWI Matilda Bay 4 pak ... $2.99 Bartles & Jaymes 4 pak ... $2.99
.Mish, Ind. 
Carlo Rossi 4 liters ... $4.99 

Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm. Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 272-2274 
UQ(JQR 
Windsor 1.75 I ... $10.99 Gilbey's Gin 1.75 I ... $9.99 Klesser's 1.75 I ... $9.99 Giro Tequila 1.75 I ... $10.99 Malibu Rum 7.50 ml ... $6.99 
Glenmora Vodka 1.75 I ... $7.99 Dubouchett Peach Schnapp's 1.75 I ... $4.99 Don Q Rum 1.751 ... $11.99 
LL FOR SYR PARTIES 
The Observer 
e 13 

Senior sweeper 
Lowney provides 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Talent, quickness, experi­ence and leadership. 
These qualites are bound to get an opponent's attention. Add to that list an air of confi­dence and a tenacious style of play and now you have also earned his repect. 
For the past four years when the Notre Dame soccer team need a sufficient dose of these they simply turned to one player: senior co-captain Steve Lowney. 
As both a sweeper and a wingback, Lowney has had a significant impact on the team since he earned his starting po­sition his freshman year. 
"We would not be the same ball club without Steve Lowney," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace, "his lead­ership, attitude and work ethic are tremendous." 
Lowney has scored two goals this year, including the game­winner against Illinois State. He found the net for the first time since tallying three goals as a freshman. 
Yet his limited scoring is hardly an indication of his great importance to the team. 
It is defensively, when he is on the other side of the ball, that Lowney becomes danger­ous. Whether he is shouting his advice to the offense or frustrating his opponents with his aggressive marking, Lowney's leadership is one of the main reasons for the team's success. 
"I have to let the other team know that we've got someone in command," said Lowney, "and I'm very conscious of that. We become a lot more in­timidating if we talk a lot." 
Consistent defensive ability and the experience gained from playing 77 collegiate games has made Lowney a can­didate for all-Great Lakes Region honors as well as making him one of top players in the history of Notre Dame's program. 
"He has really learned to read the game," said Grace, "He is very quick and is a good athlete. On the field and off he is busy guiding and directing teammates." 
Lowney strives to improve his game, especially his heading and shooting, but focuses his efforts on his job as the team's co-captain for the second year in a row. 

N.D. HOCKEY 
vs. WINDSOR 
7:30 pm Fri. & Sat. J.A.C.C. 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
•Softmate Daily or 
Extended Wear 
Contact Lenses 
$39.98 
Dally Wear Powers +7.00 to -12.00 
I.:Xtended Wear Powers plano to -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted 
2 Pairs for
Contact Lenses 
Daily or 
ExtendedWear 
$99.98
IJauac:h a: Lomb ar 
aonm•te 0 
2 Different Col?rs 
An eye exam is required at the time of 
purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not 
be combined with any other offers or discounts. 
Limitea time offer. 
"Our eyewear prices are the lowest In fndiana, and our eyecare quality Is unsurpassed. And that's a prom[se from the doctor." 
{;I~ South Bend 
-

leadership 
"My responsibility this year has been to make sure that the freshman are integrated into the team," said Lowney, "but I also have to take charge on the field and let the referee know if he's not doing his job." 
Lowney has been a model of consistency for the Irish and confidence in his abilities has helped Notre Dame attain a great deal of success during his 
~!~l~~;~~~ :~:,v~.J~_,~ 
~->·. .. ·.':i J -~,
To get that bid the Irish will · · , have to perform well this ·.·;.. weekend in California where they will play UCLA and San Diego State in the Metropolitan Life Tournament. 
The games have a special significance to Lowney, a na­tive of San Jose, California, be­
·•:w.

cause they will serve as a 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch

homecoming as well as factors in deciding the team's post­Sweeper Steve Lowney, the only senior starter for the Irish, Is seen season fate. In action earlier this year. Molly Mahoney features Lowney at left. 
SMC soccer splits over break 
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team came out strong Saturday after a week off, combining consistent offensive pressure with unbreakable defense to shutout Wheaton College, 2-0. 
With the score tied 0-0 at the half, the Belles wasted no time in taking the lead. 
Three minutes into the second half, opportunity arose when the ball went out of bounds off a Wheaton player, 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS (NILES 
ND NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R.'S (LAPORTE). 

giving the Belles a corner kick. 
Sophomore Mollie Meehan booted the ball to the center of the goal box where Celeste Aquino got her foot on it and put it in the net, putting the Belles on top. 
The Belles controlled the majority of the game, keeping the ball in emeny territory and only allowing five shots on goal. 
The icing on the cake came with ten minutes left in the game when Gina Di Tinto stole the ball, dribbled down the field, and put the second point on the board for the Belles. 
"I was pleased with our team cohesiveness, especially after a week off," said coach Tom Van Meter, "the forwards worked together passing the ball well and our defense kept the ball out of our zone." 
The week vacation and only two days of preparation took its toll when the Belles faced Mic­higan State on Tuesday and fell 6-0. 
"The week off hurt us in our consistency of play," said Van Meter. "Michigan State is a very well coached team with a lot of talent," said Van Meter. 
"MISCHIEF NIGHT MADNESS" FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30 
7:00-7: 30 pm Pep Rally 
7: 30 pm Hayrides begin-from Stepan to White Field 7:45pm Bonfire on White Field-Hot Chocolate & Donuts! 
8: 
15 pm Hayrides begin-from White Field to Rockne Memorial 

8: 
45 pm Outdoor Movie at the Rock: ''ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN 


Thursday, October 29, 1987
page 14 The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
The ski team will collect the remainder of the Christmas Trip money tonight in the LaFortune main lobby between 7-9 p.m. Also bring a copy of your insurance. Call J.P. at 271-9082 if you have questions .. -The Observer 
Team tennis rosters are due tomorrow. Contact hall commissioners for details. -The Observer 
Gerry's Fighting Zips won the NVA co-ree softball tournament for the second year in a row. The Zips are undefeated in two seasons. -The Observer 
Sweet C. Robinson, a university employee, successfully defended his Michigan middleweight kick boxing title with a first-round knockout of Chuck Haron. Robinson now owns a record of 18-4-1 and is ranked No. 10 in the world. -The Observer 
Squash Club T-shirts are in. Members can get their shirts by contacting Allan at 3211. -The Observer 
Fifth-year senior guard 
Freeman plays key role on offensive line 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 

Consider five to be Tom Freeman's lucky number. 
At his fifth position for the Irish -offensive left guard -and playing as a fifth-year senior, Freeman, wearing uniform number 65, is watching himself and his team enjoy the most success since he arrived on campus. 
"Tom has been steadily im­proving year in and year out since I've been here," says second-year offensive line coach Tony Yelovich. "He's given tremendous effort, he's a very dedicated young man who strives to improve and he has good work habits." 
It took Freeman all those work habits to survive his freshman year, where he was shuffled through various posi­tions on the defensive unit before finding a home on the offensive line. 
Freeman played both offen­sive tackle and defensive end at Rockhurst High School in Kansas City, but he earned his reputation at defensive end. He switched from defensive end to outside linebacker early in his freshman year. After suffering a groin injury, Freeman moved to middle linebacker in the spring of his freshman year. The game of musical positions finally ended with his arrival on the offensive line. 
"Gerry (former head coach Faust) decided I'd contribute more quickly as an offensive lineman," says Freeman. "I always thought I would be too small for the offensive line. When I graduated from high school, I was 220 pounds. 
The 6'4" guard from Shawnee Mission, Kan., has bulked up to 270 pounds since that time, and earned a start­ing position last year, in the first season of current Head Coach Lou Holtz. He joined classmates Chuck Lanza, Tom Rehder and Byron Spruell on what figured to be an inexper­ienced line. The line instead helped the Irish finish the season ranked 14th in the na­tion in total offense. 
"We had more experience than anyone thought," says Freeman. "During Gerry's last year the second team. We knew we just had to be aggres­sive and play the way we were capable." 

Hearns prepares for Roldan Hagler interested onlooker 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS, Nevada ­Thomas Hearns will try to be­come the first boxer to win titles in four weight classes when he fights Juan Domingo Roldan Thursday night. 
At stake will be the World Boxing Council middleweight championship, which became vacant when Sugar Ray Leonard retired after upsetting Marvelou's Marvin Hagler last April6. 
On hand for Hearns' bid to make history will be Sugar Ray Leonard, who stopped Hearns in the 14th round of a battle for the undisputed welterweight championship in 1981, and Mar­velous Marvin Hagler, who knocked out Hearns in the third round of an undisputed mid­dleweight title defense in 1985. 
Leonard will attend as a spectator, while Hagler will be a commentator on the closed­circuit and pay-per-view telecast of the scheduled 12­round bout at a 10,100-seat out­door stadium at the Las Vegas Hilton. 
"I'm evaluating the situa­tion,'' said Hagler, who is a pos­sible opponent for the winner. "I want to sit back, watch these guys and see what happens." 
"This fight will put me above everyone else out there," the 29-year-old Hearns said. "This fight definitely will make up for those two losses." 
Hearns, an 8-5 favorite, is one of 10 men to win at least pieces of three titles. Six of those 10 won their third titles in the 1980s when the number of weight classes doubled from the traditional eight and most championships have been been split. 
Only of two those six cham­pions held an undisputed title ­Roberto Duran, lightweight, and Leonard, welterweight. 

Offensive guard Tom Freeman (65), gives quar­Freeman's steady play has not gone unnoticed, terback Tony Rice plenty of time to run a play In as Steve Megargee reports below. last weekend's win over Southern California. 
Mter the season ended, Freeman decided to use his fifth year of eligibility upon graduation. Once again, he was joined by Lanza, Rehder and Spruell to form an offensive line that includes four fifth­year seniors. 
The four have played to­gether since they were on the second team as juniors during the 1985 season. 
"We all knew that we had a chance to come back and that 
For now, Freeman, having graduated as a history major with a 3.013 grade point avearage, is making sure he can make his final year in a Notre Dame uniform a special one for both himself and for the team. 
"We're not a great team yet, but we have the potential to be a great team," Freeman said. "We have to keep improving and eliminate our mistakes. The only thing that can stop us is ourselves. We can beat anyone in the country if we do all the little things right." 

we hadn't reached our poten-r;:::===::;:;:;:::::;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;:::::::;=::;:::;;;;:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii::iiiii:=:====::::;,
tial," says Freeman. "We all realized Lou Holtz was a great coach, great things could hap­pen and we wanted to make a contribution. We all love the game and playing for Notre Dame, and we wanted to make it last as long as possible." 
Freeman's experience on the line has helped both the starters and reserves on the line, according to Yelovich. 
"His experience has helped, and his work habits have helped because it shows the other young men how to develop, and how you have to work bards in practice to develop to your maximum abil­ity," says Yelovich. 
Dally and Nighdy 

HELP THE JIMM R · HE'S ~ 9 AND HE'S 
SLAWLESS 

10:00 pm-Close Park Mall on Grape Road 
.Join our "Around tlae World with 80 Beers"Cfu 
Spedals with free munchies 
Moaday thra Friday 4:00-7:00 PDI Moadap thra Saturday 
Selections 
Phone 277-6368 6402 Grape Road 

Across form University 
r---~---------~-­
Thursday, October 29, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
Campus 
Last Day for Course Discontinuance 
12:00 p.m. SMC Justice Education Program Discussion-Theme: Justice in the Context of the U.S. Constitution. "Is There a Right to Medical Care?" by Kevin McDonnell, SMC. Stapleton Lounge. 
2:45 p.m. Department of American Studies Public Seminar on "Print Jour­nalism: Does It Have a Future?" by Matthew V. Storin, Library Lounge. 
4:00p.m. Kellogg Institute and Department of Economics Lecture "Issues in 
the Reform of the International Monetary System," by Sidney Dell, Senior Econ­
omist, United Nations, New York. Room 131, Decio Hall. 
6:00p.m.-7:30p.m. SMC Campus Ministry Discussion Series-Theme: Neces­
sary Losses. "Rest in Peace: Dealing with the Death of a Loved One," by Rev. 
Thomas Stella, C.S.C. Stapleton Lounge. 
7:30p.m. Friends of the Snite Museum of Art "What Is Art?" Lecture Series­" An Alternative Tradition: Academic Styles of Painting," by Stephen B. Spiro, ND. Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Devonshire Sandwich Roast Beef Fried Perch Seafood Newburg BBQ Pork Loin Almond Chicken Broc & Cheese Casserole Deli Bar 

Comics 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Placed 5 Tittle 9 "0 -Mlo" 
13 "Tell -the 
Marines!" 14 Overwhelm 15 Ilium 16 Meat dish 17 Passageway 18 Informality 19 Passed a 
crisis 22 Escape or 
sale 23 Exist 24 Watch out 27 Pastry 32 Old-womanish 33 Avant ­34 Wing 35 Soothe 36 Indians 37 Undo 38 Before 
-..
39 Equines 40 Slowly In music -;, 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/29/8741 Ordained 
All Rights Reserved 

43 Bad 44 Fuchsia 9 Sound 45 "Elephant reproduction 
Boy" 10 Algerian 46 Imminent seaport 54 Playground 11 Give up 55 Papal 12 One who 
vestment observes 56 Something 14 Framework forbidden 20 Emerald Isle 57 "To -and a 21 Fr. department 
bone ..." 24 Packaged for 58 Reservoirs shipment 59 Base 25 Accustom 60 VIgorous 26 Tricks 61 Produces 27 Recorded 
profit 28 "Trinity" 62 Fla. county author 29 Brag 
DOWN 30 Cream of the 1 Enumerate crop 2 Alas. Island 31 Spoke 40 Timber wolf 48 Test 
3 Roman road endlessly 42 Tramp 49 Banyan e.g. 
4 Ruin 33 Garment 43 Speed 50 Stop 5 Pen Insert contests 51 Exploding 6 Quiet! 36 Bequeath 45 Vends star 7 -of Man 37 Came back 46 Ind. nurse 52 Okla. city 8 In -(fated) 39 Bearing 47 -avis 53 Function 


Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Far Side Gary Larson 
EJI/..t. CIISCY WlltK€1? (Jf' OH '14/fflfRII., THIS, 
Today: 
rrJ 7JE GIITC9 OF HefiVeN W.A... JIIST Sfflt.£ Ms. Leona O'(bnnor, /W(7 Sill/? 1rJ fiN(£/.. t'.aRr?F:0-·1 WI1H 7HC STT?IKef?S. Exec. Vice President 
~ 

of Bloom County, Inc. will tell a funny political joke. 
Ail of us here in management are i)(•hind you the whole way, Leona! Go for it, girl! 
Beernuts Mark Williams 
wo~! Far HA HA HA.... N{J.
fH[ SAME WAY Wf/0 ME YOU ANY/JAY? UH ... £XCUSf t1£... o ABoUT YOU 1H[ 011MN·W~t:R£ ARE 
TIM£! M'f ci~~De P1u.~ ?
\ I 
Suburban headhunters 
SUB PRESENTS 

TRICK OR TREAT 
on the Fieldhouse Mall 
FIRE STARTER TODAY 4-6 pm
TONIGHT 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 
FREE CANDY and D.J. 
Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
Sports 
Thursday, October 29, 1987
page 16 

Six to challenge for lnterhall football title 
By TIM SULLIVAN up the scoreboard for 102 points Sports Writer in just four games. Martin credits the team's of­The games are over -the fensive line for the scoring WARS have begun. prowess. 
Sure, the regular season is "They're the best part of our nice, but everyone knows that team," said Martin. "They're the postseason is the real test big, they all played last year, of championship teams -it's and they're great pass block­playoff time in men's interhall ers." football. Martin's defensive team 
The year began with sixteen hasn't been too shabby either. teams, all with nice fresh uni­Only six points by the Dogs of
-........,. 
forms, and high hopes for a Alumni stopped Stanford from 
trophy. But now, two months going unscored upon. 
later, just six teams -Alumni, By virtue of its undefeated 
Dillon, Fisher, Flanner, season, Stanford will enjoy a 
Pangborn, and Stanford -still bye in the first round of the 
have a chance to play on the playoffs, and then play the win­
grass of Notre Dame Stadium. ner of the Fisher-Alumni game. 
Herewith, a capsule review Even though every other of each of those teams: coach names Stanford as the 
favorite, Martin isn't as sure. Stanford (4-0) "We're confident, but it's so Defending champion Stan­hard to tell," said Martin. We 
ford is again the favorite to win just haven't seen the other 
the crown. Using quarterback teams play." 
and player-coach Al Martin, Dillon (4-1) 
The Observer I David Fischer
wide receiver John Sheehan (7 The Big Red are a big ques­
TD's), and talented running see INTERHALL, page 11 Kathy Baker and the Notre Dame volleyball team Theresa Kelly has details of the unexpected loss back Dan Diebel, Stanford lit were upset by Purdue last night In four games. below. 
Volleyball team's tourney hopes dim with loss 
By THERESA KELLY Michelle Erickson appeared to the lead before two powerful before Bennett took over for the The loss will severely hurt Sports Writer rattle the Irish, and inconsis­serves by McDonald tied the Irish and ran off four straight Notre Dame's chance of an tent play proved to be the score at 13. kills to move Notre Dame 
NCAA tournament bid. Al­The Irish volleyball team team's downfall. 
The teams again traded within one point, 5-4. though five of the seven Irish 
was upset by a surprising Notre Dame fell behind 12-5 points to tie at 14, but Waller's But again, the Boilermaker losses have come to nationally
Purdue team at the Joyce ACC in the first game, but behind dink for a point followed by a service game got the best of the ranked teams, their current 19­
Pit Wednesday night. Behind a the kills of Zanette Bennett and game-winning volley tied the Irish return game, as Darcy 7 record may not be goodpowerful service game, the Mary Kay Waller and the 
match at one game each with Orin served 10 consecutive enough for the selection com­Boilermakers took the match serves of Maureen Shea, the the Irish 16-14 victory. points to give Purdue the game mittee. 
in four games, 15-10, 14-16, 15-2, Irish narrowed the score to 13­
The Boilermaker power and the match, 15-4. "We have more big games15-4. 10. Purdue regrouped to score showed itself in the third game Zanette Bennett lead the because we have such a tough"We couldn't keep track of the final two points and take as the Irish were blown away, Irish in kills with 10 and added schedule," Bennett said. "If wetheir hitters," said Irish assis­the opener, 15-10. 15-2, despite several errors by seven digs, but was not happy had won this match, I think we tant coach Patti Hagemeyer. In the second game, the Irish Purdue. with the results of her efforts. would have been in the tourna­
"We had trouble with digs after jumped out to a 9-2 lead as the "They gave us every chance "First of all, we lost confi­ment, because the Purdueblocks. We couldn't seem to Boilermakers went through a 
in the third game," dence too easily," Bennett coach has an influence on the
handle their power game, es­brief period of poor serves and Hagameyer said. "We had op­said. "We also didn't communi­selection."pecially the serves." missed connections. The portunities that we didn't take cate well--no one was talking. The Irish hope to bounceThe Boilermakers came up Purdue service game came advantage of." It seemed like we were frozen. back against the University of
with 11 service aces, but that back in full force as they The Irish played stronger in "The bench got down, and it Illinois-Chicago on Friday
was. not the whole story. The stormed into the lead, 11-9. the fourth game, but Purdue seemed like we gave up when night.bullet serves of Debbie Amy White and Colleen Wag­had the momentum. The the subs came in. Nothing gave Friday's match begins atMcDonald, Becky Kanitz and ner served the Irish back into Boilers jumped out to a 5-0 lead us any spark." 
7: 30 Friday in the ACC Pit. 

.,_ 
Irish injuries do not stop at quarterback 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz often speaks of the importance of something called chemistry on a foot­ball team. 
When senior quarterback Terry Andrysiak's season ended because of a broken collarbone a few weeks ago at Pittsburgh, the Irish offense had to test a new chemistry under sophomore Tony Rice. Apparently it worked, and Notre Dame is now 5-1 after two big wins with Rice calling the signals. 
But perhaps more amazing than the ease with which Rice seems to be running the offense is the way Notre Dame's "No-Name Defense" has main­tained its poise in the face of adversity. Injuries have plagued Irish defensive coordinator Foge Fazio's defensive line and secondary, but the defense still has managed to keep non-Pittsburgh offenses out of the endzone on a consistent basis. 
"You've got to keep a consistent lineup in there," Fazio said. "That's important. But we really haven't had that luxury on the line and in the sec­ondary.'' 
This week, it's sophomore Bryan Flannery sitting out practices. Flannery stepped in at right tackle when Jeff Kunz was injured a few weeks ago, and played very well in Notre Dame's last two victories over Air Force and USC. Flannery suffered back spasms against the Trojans this past Saturday, and is questionable for this Saturday's game against Navy. 
"That injury hurts a lot because he played very well against the wishbone team -against the Air Force," Fazio noted, referring to the fact that Navy also runs the wishbone offense. "We're a decent defense when we have all of our people, but this is about the fifth week when a new face has been on the defensive line. You'll probably see (sophomore Ted) Fitzgerald start along with Kunz." 

Marty Strasen 

Assistant Sports Editor 
In flie secondary, Brandy Wells is doing it again. 
The senior, who has spent the last three years switching from cornerback to strong safety and back to corner, has been called on to try his hand at yet another position-free safety. Freshman Todd Lyght started the Air Force game after junior Corny Southall tore knee ligaments against Pittsburgh. 
But the Irish coaching staff decided it needed Wells' experience at the signal-calling slot on the defense, and Wells made 10 tackles at free safety against USC. 
"Todd will play, but Brandy will start," Fazio said. "Brandy is a heck of an athlete. His ability to play those different positions speaks well for his talent. Our free safety is the quarterback of the defense. He's got to call the signals and get us in the right formations. 
"Brandy has been adjusting very well in that role. 
We have a lot of confidence in him-as we do in all our players." 
The Notre Dame offense got a couple of pre­Halloween scares early this week when a couple of key players missed some practice time. 
Rice, who took a hit in the chin from USC's Marcus Cotton which resulted in 14 stitches and a mild concussion, missed practice Monday. 
Holtz said he would have to assume Rice might miss the Navy game at his weekly press conference Tuesday, but Rice has been back in the lineup and working with the first team in both Tuesday's and Wednesday's workouts. 
Senior flanker Tim Brown slipped while running a pass pattern Tuesday and landed on his shoulder. Brown was slow to get up and sat out after the incident, but was back in action Wednesday and feeling fine. 
Many Notre Dame fans and players might not realize that the Notre Dame-Navy series is the longest intersectional rivalry in the nation. Satur­day's game marks the 61st straight season the two teams have met. 
see INJURIES, page 12 




