Texaco bankruptcy -page 9 
r---------------------------------------------, 
VOL. XXI, NO. 126 

TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1987 
the independent student newspaper sen·ing ~otre Dame and Saint 'fa11's 

Resolution for gay group not valid 
By THERESA HAR­RINGTON News Staff 
Saint Mary's student govern­ment learned Monday night that a resolution which it passed last week allowing a group calling itself Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's <GLNMMC) to use a room at the College is in­valid. 
Last Tuesday night Eileen Hetterich, the College's stu­dent body president, was shown a letter by Saint Mary's President Bill Hickey which he had sent to GLNMMC Oct. 6, 1986. 
The letter stated: "We can­not serve as a co-sponsor for programs or activities planned by the GLNMMC. If the Col­lege, as a Catholic Institution, were to provide sponsorship, it would be recognizing the homo­sexual lifestyle as an accep­table one, which it is not in the eyes of the Church." 
The College's official policy regarding the group was estab­lished in the fall by Hickey when he received an identical request for a room from GLNMMC. 
After a discussion, members of the Council agreed to stand by their original vote, which they acknowledged can serve only as a recommendation to Hickey. 
Said Hetterich, "President Hickey is the official represen­tative of the institution, and as such he is the only who can set school policy." 


Jolly green midget 
The Observer/Mike Moran 
Brian Stark resolutely strikes the famous stance of the Fightin' Irish Leprechaun, in the culmination of the routine which clinched him the coveted spot. See story below right. 

Large voter turnout for SMC hall elections 
By MARIA DOTI Staff Reporter 
Voter turnout increased by 29 percent in this year's hall elec­tions at Saint Mary's, following the decision made by the Col­lege's student government to move the polls to the dining halls. 

"We had more tickets this year than last year," said Eileen Hetterich, Saint Mary's Student Body President for next year. "And we had 41 per­cent of the student body vote as opposed to less than 12 per­cent last year. Our goal was to generate interest, and it looks like we did." 
The dining hall proved to be a beneficial move for the polls. Election Commissioner Frannie Thompson said, "Everyone has to go to the dining hall at least once a day, and this way, students don't have to go out of their way to vote." 
The results of the elections were as follows: 
The 'Drew Crew' consisting of Terry Drew, Erin Haggerty, Kerry McMonigle and Katie Kearny defeated the ticket of Pam Raque, Sheila O'Grady, Jill Verdun and Shannon Reidy in the race for LeMans Hall Council. 
Forty-three percent of next year's residents voted. Out of these, the Drew ticket received 69 percent of the vote, while the Raque ticket received the remaining 24 percent. 
"We were very pleased by the large voter turnout," said Erin Haggerty. "We hope it's indicative of the strong support we'll receive next year." 
In the Holy Cross race, the ticket of Jill Tomko, Kim Sar­tori, Andrea Receski and Karin Rader will run against the ticket of Patti Swain, Sue Ber­tucci, Sandy Hickey and Chris Deckel in a run-off. 
"The heat is still on in Holy Cross," Tomko said. "We're urging everyone to come out and vote on Wednesday." 
Forty-four of next year's 
see ELECTION, page3 




Shultz holds talks with Shevardnadze 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz held three rounds of talks Monday with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, taking up the critical issue of nuclear arms reductions at an un­scheduled late night session. 
There was no immediate word on the outcome. At the California White House, mean­while, presidential Chief of Staff Howard Baker Jr. said he would not be surprised to see a decision on a superpower sum­mit emerge by the end of Shultz' three-day visit. 
The Soviet news agency Tass, however, accused Wash­ington of"a fresh cock-and-bull story" of Soviet espionage at the U.S. embassy in Moscow. The dispatch said the Pentagon came up with the "spy scare" in an effort to undercut the State Department. 
Charles Redman, the State Department spokesman, said Shultz and Shevardnadze brought their arms control ex­perts to the evening meeting. 
The meeting was held after a Passover Seder attended by Shultz at the U.S. embassy with about 40 prominent Jewish "refuseniks," -people who have been refused permission to emigrate. 
Shultz attended the Seder, which recalls Jewish deliverance from slavery un­der the Egyptian pharaoh, to demonstrate continued U.S. support for Soviet Jews. He told them U.S. citizens are praying for them. 
Shultz and Shevardnadze held two rounds of talks Mon­day morning and afternoon to try to stabilize relations in the midst of a bitter exchange of spy charges. 
Those sessions and a working lunch were held at a Foreign Ministry guest house about a mile from the Kremlin. Sunny skies, melting the little slush left, spoke of spring. 
A special van was set up to provide secure communica­tions for Shultz to Washington and for meetings with his staff. The United States has accused the Soviets of infiltrating the embassy with the collusion of some U.S. marine guards and gaining access to classified materials. 
About three dozen reporters and photographers were taken on a tour of two rows of red­brick townhouses where Amer­ican diplomats have lived since late last year. Construction on the new embassy building stopped in 1985. 
President Reagan said last week the new, $191 million em­bassy complex might have to be torn down. 
Shultz planned to complain to Shevardnadze about a "pattern of intrusiveness and hostility." But he also said before coming to Moscow on a three-day visit that he wanted "to find our way to a more constructive relation­ship" and to lower the level of nuclear weapons. 

Stark chosen to be ND leprechaun 
By JIM WINKLER Staff Reporter 
After surviving a month and a half of tryouts, Brian Stark, a Zahm Hall junior from Erie, Pennsylvania, has been named the Notre Dame leprechaun for 1987-88. 
Stark was chosen following final tryouts Saturday by a panel of judges consisting of members of the Athletic De­partment, guests from the American Cheer leading Asso­ciation, and Jeff Anhut, the leprechaun two years ago. 
Stark said he was surprised at being selected, but he also felt "very thrilled by it and complimented by it." "Until that sign was posted, I was very anxious and worried. To be chosen from a group like this is an honor," he said. 
Stark said he was selected because he showed the judges that "I am an average student at Notre Dame, but I can put life back into the spirit that brought all of us to Notre Dame." 
According to Stark, he and the 20 contestants initially began tryouts in March. Each contestant could be no taller than 5 feet 7 inches, he said. 
Each contestant also had to pass a strength test in addi­tion to performing a tradi­tional Irish jig, an innovative Irish jig, and an improvisa­tion routine, he added. 
Six finalists were then cho­sen and asked to return on Saturday for a final viewing. 
At the final viewing, Stark performed a six and a half minute skit in which he acted out the development of a leprechaun. Stark described the routine as "a progression of the leprechaun from some­one who was unsure of himself and lacked direction, to some­one who was a strong symbol of what Notre Dame is all about." 
Stark said he developed the routine from ideas that he had sought out from his friends and other students about what the leprechaun should do. 
"What I did in my tryout was what a leprechaun should do," Stark said. 
Stark said he was inspired to try out for the position be­cause the Notre Dame spirit he had dreamed of in grade school and high school was lacking. 
He said last Halloween, stu­dents paid money to leave campus and party at another college. "I felt like, hey, this is our campus. We should have fun here." 
Stark said he wants to con­tribute something substantial to the University. "I decided that I was leaving here in thir­teen months or so, and I wanted to try and help bring back the spirit of Notre Dame, and make this place as thrill­ing as it used to be." 
The new leprechaun said he has many plans for next year, including coordinating c> "Greased Lightning" routine with the band. 
Stark said he wants to get alumni involved in the spirit 
seeSTARK, pageJ 

The Observer 
In Brief 
Dr. Alexander Hahn, professor of mathematic!: at Notre Dame, has been named director of the Foreign Study Program at Innsbruck, Austria, for the 1987-88 year, according to Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of Foreign Study Programs. Hahn, who received a doc­torate from Notre Dame in 1970, joined the faculty here in 1972. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
SMC Triduum Liturgy Schedule is as follows: Holy Thursday, 5 p.m.; Good Friday, 3 p.m.; Easter Vigil, 8 p.m.; Easter Sunday Eucharist, 11 a.m.; and Easter Sunday Vespers, 5 p.m.. All services are in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. -The Observer 
"Senior Month" events registration will be held tonight and tomorrow from 7 -9 p.m. in LaFortune lobby and Haggar lobby. The Senior Class is sponsoring an event every day from An Tostal until graduation. Registration is necessary for the Weddingless Reception, Dr. Bop and the Headliners Show, Canoeing in St. Pat's Park, and the Chicago Skyline Sunset Cruise. All interested seniors should sign up. -The Observer 
Hunger Clean-up Pledges should be turned in by tomorrow to the secretary at the Center for Social Concerns or to Liz Durkin at 704 PE. Please put the money in a sealed envelope with your name on it. -The Observer 
Celebrating the Twentieth Anniversary of Pope Paul VI's encyclical, "On the Development of Peoples,'' the Institute for International Peace Studies will sponsor a lecture by Denis Goulet, entitled "Populorum Progressio: Twenty Years Mter" today at 4 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
Any student interested in being an officer of the Pre-Law Society may pick up an application in 101 O'Shaughnessy. Applications must be submitted no later than 3 p.m. on Tuesday, April22. -The Observer 
The 1987 edition of Dome will be distributed next week to undergraduates from 12:30-4:30 p.m. outside the Stepan Center. Seniors may pick up the book Tuesday, juniors on Wednesday, sophomores on Thursday, and freshmen on Friday. Students must bring ID's with them to receive a yearbook. -The Observer 
''Juniors: How to Fill Out Your Profile Form" is the title of a presentation to be given by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 7 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland Science. All juniors are welcome to attend. This presentation will be repeated tomorrow night. -The Observer 
"For Export Only: Pills" is the title of film to be presented by the SMC College Justice Education Pro­gram, at 4 p.m. today in Stapleton Lounge. Associate Pro­fessor of Psychology Joseph Miller will host the program. 
-The Observer 

"Reverse Discrimination" will be the subject of a debate held tonight at 6 p.m. in the Media Center of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. The debate is sponsored by the Constitutional Law, GOVT 323 class at SMC. -The Ob­server 
Attention Class of '88: Next year's Senior Class Trip will be to Jamaica during fall break. The trip will cost a total of $569, $100 of which must be paid, non­refundable, by the end of the semester. For information, contact the Class of '88 office in LaFortune. -The Observer 

Weather 
"Mediocre" is the key word for today and tomorrow's weather. Highs will be in the upper 50's to low 60's this afternoon, with a 70 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Lows tonight will be in the mid 40's, and the high Wednesday in the mid to upper 50's, with a 60 percent chance of rain. 

"This paper has been sent to you for luck," the letter read. 
Now, I don't get much mail, so any letter is lucky. (I'm one of the few people who read their balance statements from the Notre Dame 
Credit Union.) But this letter was really lucky. "The original copy is in New England. It has been aroud (sic) th~ world nine times! The luck has now been sent to you. You will receive good luck within four days of receiving this letter providing you send it back out." Is this a joke? I wondered. "THIS IS NOT A JOKE," the letter read. "You will receive it (luck) in the mail." But who do I send copies to? "Send copies to people you think need good luck. Don't send money as FATE has no price. Do not keep this letter. It must leave your hands within 96 hours." Now I was getting kind of scared. What hap­pens to people who send out copies of the letter? What happens to those who don't? "An Airforce (sic) officer received $70,000. Joe Elliott received $40,000 and lost it because he broke the chain, while in the Phiillippines (sic), Gene Welch lost his wife six days after receiving this letter. He failed to circulate the 
letter. However before her death she won $50,000 in a lottery. The money transfered to him four days aftter (sic) he decided to mail (sic) the letter and forgot 1t had to leave hiS out this letter." hands within 96 hours. He lost his job. Later 
I guess 1.\ilr. Welch broke even. Fift~r finding the letter again, he mailed ?Ut ~0 

"Please send copies of this letter and see what copies. A few days later he got a better JOb. happens in four days. The chain comes from !h~t's encouragi~g, I thought. Maybe that Venezuela and was written by Saul Anthony de m1~~1onar¥ really d1d do the world a favor by Croff, a Missionary from South America." writmg this letter. 
I'm glad to see our missionaries are spending Unfortunat~ly,. there ~as more. their time on productive activities, I thought. "_Do~an Fa1rc~lld rece~yed the letter a~d not It's about time they stopped feeding the hungry ?,el~evmg threw 1t aw~y, .~he letter contmued. 
and spreading the Word of God. 

But I was still confused. Just how did this chain letter work? "Since the copy must make a tour of the world, you must make 20 copies and send them to your friends and associates" 
. · · · .
Geez, I thought. Gettmg th1s letter 1s kmd of like getting mono. Someone give$ it to you and you give it to 20 of your friends and associates. 
"Mter a few days you will get a surprise," the letter read. But what if you're not super­stitious? I wondered. "This is true even if you are not superstitious." 
Thank God. 

"Do note the following," the letter continued. 
"Constantine Dias received the chain in 1953. He had his secretary make 20 copies and send them out! A few days later he won the lottery of two million dollars. 
"Andy Daddit, an office employee recieved 
Nme days late~ he d1~d. . . , Oh my God. It s not JUSt a cham letter, It s a death threat, too. . " The letter ended w1th a plea. Please send no money, Please (oops, watch that punctua-
IT WORKS 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1"
t' ) d 't ·g e th1'
Ion on 1 nor s. . ......: . 
Let~s see, I thought. I could send 20 copies to my friend~ and make about $70,000. And I could keep my JOb. . . 
_OR l could 9uote the en~1re letter m a column with a potential readership of 12,000 people. At $70,000 per 20 copies, that means I'd make $42 million. Moreover, if I were as lucky as Mr. 
Diaz, I'd ra~e in $1.2 billion. . 
I could qwt school, leave my JOb and spend the rest of my days indulging in a life of pure, unrelenting hedonism ... 
"This column has been sent to you for luck... " 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
~SENIOR MONTH~ 
from An Tostal until graduation, the Senior Class is sponsoring an event EVERY day. 
Senior Month booklets will be available when you register for Senior Week Activities. 
Sunday, May 10th Weddingless Reception $5.00 Monday, May 11th Dr. Bop & the Headliners $4.00 Tuesday, May 12th Canoeing in St. Pat's Park $7.00 
SMC Luau $5.00 Wednesday, May 13th Chicago Trip (Lake Michigan Partyliner) $26.00 bus and boat $10.00 bus only 
REGISTRATION: Tuesday, April 21st and Wednesday, April 22nd 7 p.m. -9 p.m. LaFortune Lobby & Haggar Lobby 



Design Editor . . . •. . . . . .. .. .. . . . Kathy Huston Design As•istant .. .. .. .. Eileen Lawerence Typesetter .. .. .. .............. Jose Novas ................................. Becky Gunderman News Editor. ....................... Chris Julka Copy Editor.. .. Tim O'Keefe Sports Copy Editor ... ......... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor . .... Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout .............. Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ............. Tom Beatty 
Accent Layout...................... Carey Gels Business Page Editor ......... Steve Claeys Business Page Layout ....... Heidi Traxler Typist .. .. . .. ........... :.. .. .. Colleen Foy ....................................... Jennifer Conlon ND Day Editor ......... Pratibha Tripathi SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design ...... Joan Wrappe Photographer .......... Mike Moran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tho Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer Tuesday, April 14, 1987 -page 3 
Columnist urges activism for peace 
By KATIE SULLIVAN 
Staff Reporter 
Colman McCarthy, synd­icated columnist for The Wash­ington Post, said, "We should study peace like we study sci­ence or computers." 
Introducing himself at Mon­day's lecture at Carroll Hall as a "journalist, a writer, a liberal and a citizen of a country we should all be worried about," McCarthy said, "We should study Ghandi, Jesus, King and Day, for example, and by their ideals learn to be nonviolent." 
The lecture, titled, "Working for Social Justice: Should We Bother?" was sponsored by the Saint Mary's Department of Sociology and the Writing Proficiency Committee. 
According to McCarthy we should all be bothered with the extraordinary amount of vio­lence in our society. 
The lecture consisted of a slide show presentation with narration that McCarthy and several of his peace studies stu­dents produced. The presenta­tion which began with Joan Baez's "Where Have All the Flowers Gone" displayed an array of photos and quotes from well-known pacifists like Gandhi, Jesus, Rankin, and Einstein. 
The presentation touched upon the issues of defense spending, possible ecological disaster, and what the narrator of the presentation called "mis­leading" advertisements pre­sented to the public by the armed forces. 
"People are learning they can't be all they can be. The whole story is not being told," said the narrator of the presentation. 
McCarthy said the purpose of his presentation was to arouse people to strive for a nonviolent society. ''A good way to begin to decrease violence is by in­stalling peace-study programs in our schools," he said, add­ing, "A marvelous gift from the class of 1987 would be 200 signa­tures petitioning for peace studies programs." 
McCarthy concluded the presentation by giving what he called "three essentials (necessary) to be effective (in applying your) social ideals." 
The first essential is a sense of prayer, he said. "It should be prayer that asks what God wants from you; it demands risk." 
A sense of service was cited by McCarthy as the second es­sential. According to McCarthy, this consists of using skills to ease other peoples suffering. 
The final essential which McCarthy dis~ussed is what he called a "sense of exorcism." By "exorcism" McCarthy said he meant the "actual driving out of anythirlg that is violent." 
"The key to all of this is to make a commitment to non­violence and decreasing suffer­ing," McCarthy said. 
With this commitment, McCarthy said, "We should start small. 
"For example, start with your friends and roommates, and if you succeed in decreas­ing suffering, widen the circle and move on," McCarthy said. 

Chadian soldiers stand near undamaged Soviet tanks on April 10 in northern Chad after the tanks were abandoned by Libyans with the keys still in. The Chadian forces routed the Libyans, ending Ghadaffi's grip on northern Chad. See story at left. 
QUESTION #2. 
HOW CAN THE BUDGO-CONSCIOUS 
COLLEGE STUDENT SAVE MONEY? 
Stark 
Continued/rom page 1 
at games. "I want to develop 
more interaction between 
alumni and students. The 
alumni share the same ideas 
that we have; they are basi­
cally the same people that we 
are, caring about· Notre 
Dame,."he said. 
In an effort to bring about this interaction, Stark said he will work with a spirit club that is being formed. The club, which is the idea of Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan, will attempt to create enthusuiasm and ideas on making Notre Dame a more fun place, Stark said. 
I want to create spirit all over campus, not just courtside," he said. 
Stark also said he hopes to improve the spirit and inter­est for sports other than foot­ball and basketball. "I won't be naive enough to say that I will go to every Irish game, but I want to pop up at a lacrosse game or a field hockey match. The leprec­haun may even have his own aquatic outfit for next year,." he said. 

Save over 50% oH AT&T's weekday rates on out-of-state calls during nights and weekends. 
Don't buy textbooks when "Monarch Notes" will do iustfine. 
Save 38% oH AT&T's weekday rate on out-of-state 
calls during evenings. 
Count on AT&T for exceptional value and high quality service. 
Hang around with the richest kids in school; letthem pick up the tab whenever possible. 
Ifyou're like most college students in the western hemisphere, 
you try to make your money go a long way. That's why you should 
know that AT&r Lon Distance Service is t e ri ht choice £ you. 
~ AT&r o ers so many terrific values. For example, you 
can save over 50% off AT&r's dey-rate on calls during 
weekends unti15 pm Sunday, ~nd from 11 pm 
\ to 8 am, Sunday through Fr1dey-. . Call between 5 pm and 11 pm, 
. Sundey-through Friday, and you'll save 38% 
· off our day rate. 
Ever dial a wrong number? AT&r gives you 
immediate credit. ifyou do. And of course, you can count on 
AT&r for clear long distance connections any place you call. 
To find out more about how AT&r can help_glve you mone.XJ 
give us a call. With a little luck, you won't have to hang around with 
the rich kids. Call toll-free todey-, a~~r 
Oft~ 


AD.T 
The right choice. 
Election 
Continuedfrom page 1 
residents voted. The Tomko 
ticket received 48 percent of the 
votes, while Swain and her fel­
low Armadillos earned 31 per­
cent. 
In the Regina Hall Council election, the ticket consisting of Anita Knebel, Shannon McGowan, Jennifer Berg and Victoria Stolarski went on to defeat the ticket of Melissa Morin, Amy Carzoli, Rachel O'Hara and Kristene Murphy. 
Twenty-four percent of next year's single inhabitants voted. The Morin ticket earned 40 per­cent of the votes, while the Knebel ticket won with 60 per­cent of the votes. 
Two tickets ran unopposed this year: that of Maura Reidy, Karen Bell, Stephanie Libert and Helen Burke for McCand­less Hall, and the ticket of Col­leen Harty, Debbie Storey, Amy Friday and Angie Cor­tesio for Augusta Hall. 
a) b) 
c) 
d) e) 
~~1 
~ 
~ 
~ . 

~ 1986AT&T 


~--~~~--~----------------------------------·----------------------~-------------­
The Observer Tuesday, April14, 1987-page 
Pope receives criticism for praise of Argentin 
Associated Press Galtieri now is serving year prison sentence 
ROME -Pope John Paul II role in the war. denounced human rights Flying across the Atlantic abuses in Chile, but he disap­March 31 to visit to U pointed those who hoped for the Chile and Argentina, same in Argentina, where the told reporters it was his " church has been criticized for to condemn abuses of not condemning torture and kil­rights under Chile's ling under past military rule. tatorial" regime. 
During the two-week tour en­He likened the church's ding Monday, the pope spoke there to guidance given by firmly against the conduct of hierarchy in the Philippines Chile's right-wing government. the civilian-military 
In neighboring Argentina, that drove President which is adjusting to a 3-year­dinand Marcos into exile in old democracy and struggling February 1986. with economic crisis, John Paul Pinochet made his speech of 

' ~, . ·-! 

provoked criticism for not welcome at the airport, a cool saying more about the military lecture about what he called juntas that governed for nearly the "reality" of a country
nine years and had a close re­threatened by a Marxist con­lationship with the Argentine spiracy. church. The pope and Pinochet met 
"I believe there were serious privately the next day and deficiencies ... because Pope prayed together in the chapel John Paul II did not make con­of the presidential palace. tact with the human rights or­Pinochet's forces attacked the ganizations," said Adolfo palace during the September Perez Esquivel, an Argentine 1973 coup that overthrew the who won the 1980 Nobel Peace elected government of Presi­Prize. dent Salvador Allende, a Mar­
He said local Roman Catholic xist. leaders "organized a beautiful When John Paul returned to tourist trip but not a pastoral Rome on Monday, the city was visit." plastered with posters showing 
After arriving in Rome on the pontiff and Pinochet on the Monday, the pontiff said of Ar­balcony of the palace. A leftist gentina: "You don't see the Catholic group that criticized tension that you saw in Chile." the meeting put up the posters, 
Chilean church officials keep which carried the word "recon­meticulous records of ciliation," the major theme of
The Observer!Mike MOran 

presumed kidnappings, allega­the pope's six days in Chile.
Duane DiFranco practices for the upcoming at Washington Hall, and tickets can be pur­tions of torture and harassment The pontiff had urged Chile's 
production of MacBeth with the help of Prof. chased now. · 
of labor activists, priests, nuns, bishops to guide the nationLou Soens. The play will be beginning April 29 
lawyers, social workers and toward a prompt return to others who have denounced the democracy, while reminding '13-year-old military govern-them to condemn violence from ment President Augusto Pinoc­either right or left. Communist 
Population now exceeds 5 billion 
het. guerrillas have waged a terror­ist campaign to oust Pinochet. Associated Press ulation Institute, calculated been stressed as heavily this The church in Argentia has The pope's presence gave that the event occurred last year, said Mary Kent of the the reputation of doing little Chileans a rare chance to gat­
WASHINGTON -The rate at year. bureau. during the military's "dirty her in huge numbers and speak which people are being born is In its new report, the Popu­As a result, China's birth rate war" on leftists from 1976 to out. speeding up again, just as the lation Reference Bureau esti­jumped from 18 per 1,000 1983. At a Mass attended by 500,000 planet's population edges past mated the worldwide birth rate people in 1986 to 21 this year, President Raul Alfonsin's poor people in a Santiago slum, the five billion milestone, a at 28 births per 1,000 people, up and "they may have trouble government says at least 9,000 a woman took the microphone population study group re­from 27 last year. The world's getting it back down," Kent people disappeared, and told John Paul: "We want ported Monday. rate had been 27 for two years, said in a telephone interview. presumably killed, but human a dignified life, but one without 
The privat(;l Population Ref­down from 28 in 1984 and 29 in "They didn't mean to ease up rights groups say the number dictatorship." erence Bureau cited an easing 1983, the group said. . that much," she said, adding may be four times that. In a Santiago park, pockets of strict birth limits in China "If Beijing continues to ease that there have been indica­John Paul also visited Argen­of young people in the crowd of as a prime reason for the turn­up on its population policy, it tions that Chinese officials plan tina in 1982, during Argentina's 600,000 hurled stones, and around in population growth. will shatter current assump­to renew their stress on small war with Britain over the police responded with water 
The Bureau's new World tions about a continuing slow­families. Falkland Islands, and met with cannon and tear gas. The pope Population Data Sheet for 1987 down in the global population's Kent cited a combination of Gen. Leopoldo Galtieri, the watched in amazement from estimates that the July 1 popu­growth rate," said bureau spe­factors for the Chinese in­military president at the time. the altar. lation of the world will be 5.026 cialist Carl Haub. "China's crease in births, including billion. sheer size dominates the entire some public reaction against 
The United Nations has demographic picture." the strict limits, a large num­projected that the world will China's policy of one child ber of young people moving pass the five billion milestone per family had been very effec­into the childbearing ages, and early in July, while another tive in reducing growth in some changes in the age at private study group, The Pop-recent years, but that has not which people marry. 

Clubs and Organizations 
Applications are now available for: 
1. 
Student Government Funding for 1987-88 

2. 
Club Registration 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 

4. 
Office Space in LaFortune 


Pick applications in Student Activities Office, 301 
LaFortune. 
Applications are due Wednesday, April 15 at 4:00 pm. 
All the Seasons of Mercy 
Contemporary in theme, written in inclusive language, and grouped according to the seasons of the church yeat; these prayers, based on the Common Lectionary, convey the mystery of Gods presence in our lives. 
"Gods grace has showered upon Diane Karay the wonderful gift of theological insight and the poetic insight to translate the mystery of Gods grandeur into prayers that sing with scriptural integrity and human honesty." -James G. Kirk 
Paper, 57.95 
Published l7y The Westminster Press 
Available at 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

The Observer Tuesday, April14, 1987-page 5 
Hinckley corresponding with mass murderers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Presiden­tial assailant John Hinckley Jr wrote to serial killer Theodore Bundy and obtained the ad­dress of mass murderer Charles Manson, a psychiatrist said in surprise court tes­timony Monday. 
Hinckley, who is trying to convince a judge his mental ill­ness is in remission, recently wrote Bundy to "express his sorrow" about the "awkward position he must be in" on Florida's death row, Dr. Glenn Miller testified in U.S. District Court. 
The stunning testimony prompted a bench conference during which Hinckley's lawyers told the judge Hinckley may still have the let­ters he received from Bundy, who is awaiting execution for three 1978 murders, according to a transcript of the private conference. 
Miller also testified that Hinckley, 30, received a letter several years ago from Manson follower Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme, asking him to write to Manson at a California prison. 
He said Hinckley declined but obtained Manson's ad­dress. 
Miller's unexpected tes­timony came at a hearing on Hinckley's request to make an unescorted 12-hour Easter visit to his family from the mental hospital where he was sent for shooting President Reagan. 
The psychiatrist, who was testifying on behalf of Hinckley, cited these incidents as examples of lapses in Hinckley's judgment. 
Miller's disclosure appeared to stun and anger U.S. District Judge Barrington Parker and federal prosecutors, who had subpoenaed Hinckley's letters, diaries and medical records, including psychiatrists' notes from St. Elizabeths Hospital. 
Hinckley has been held at St. Elizabeths since 1982, when he was found innocent by reason of insanity in the March 30, 1981 shooting of Reagan, White House Press Secretary James Brady, a city policeman and a Secret Service agent. 
The Secret Service was in­furiated when it learned Hinckley had visited his par­ents under hospital escort for 12 hours on Dec. 28. The presidential security force said last month it considered Hinckley still a threat. 
IllALUMNI 

.---II SENIOR 
~!:CLUB 
Applications for DJ's for the 1987-88 school year are available in the Student Activities Office, Rm. 301 LaFortune. 
f/ 


A Philippine Army crew prepares to fight com­this year against the New People's Army, which munist guerrillas in Northern Luzon. The oper­President Corazon Aquino has vowed to ation in the rebel-infested area is the largest supress. 
Tutu urges defiance of speech ban 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa -Archbishop Desmond Tutu and other clergymen urged people at a special prayer service Monday to defy new limits on speech and assembly. The U.S. ambassador was among 700 people in the congregation. 
Ambassador Edward Perkins issued a statement saying: "It is sad that a gov­ernment which claims to up­hold the values of human dig­nity, and which portrays itself as secure and strong, should be so intimidated by the peaceful protestations of its citizens that it declares those protestations to be illegal." 
Perkins' attendance and his statement represented one of his most vivid gestures since he became the first black American ambassador to South Africa last November. 

The ambassadors of Canada, Sweden and Austria also atten­ded the ecumenical service dedicated to people detained without charge under a nationwide state of emergency the white government imposed 10 months ago. 
Regulations issued Saturday by Police Commissioner Johan Coetzee make it a crime to call for release of detainees by word, action or in writing. Gatherings in support of detainees also are banned. Penalties for breaking the rules range up to a fine of 20,000 
CAMPUS VIEW APTS 

Furnished Utilities Paid 

Now taking applications for summer leasing Ph. 272-1441 
CLASS OF 1990 
: Sophomore Dorm Representative
•
: and Commissioner Applications 
: Are now available with the Student : Government Secretary at 2nd floor : LaFortune. Applications must be 
• returned by Wednesday, : April 15th, 1987.
• 
i 
• 
:•: 
: : : • : 
• 
rand ($10,000) or 10 years in 
prison. 
Tutu, the black prelate who is Anglican archbishop of southern Mrica, organized the service. He was joined at St. George's Cathedral by Jewish and Dutch Reformered church members. 
Although Law and Order Minister Adriaan Vlok said prayer services at churches were not prohibited, Tutu and his colleagues openly violated a section of the rules making it a crime to urge other people to support detainees. 
Tutu said he would make· similar statements inside or outside church. 
"I will continue to urge, as I do, the authorities to release all detainees or bring them to court, and I hope you support me in such a call," he said, ap­parently leaving himself open to incitement charges. 
Coetzee issued a statement Monday saying the regulations did not bar prayers for detainees at "bonafide religi­ous gatherings" or prohibit po­litical candidates from ad­dressing the detention issue in speeches. 
Vlok's latest regulations join a long list of emergency rules that restrict reporting about unrest and the treatment of detainees. 
Correction 
In yesterday's Saint Mary's College valedictorian story, the date of Saint Mary's com­mencement was incorrectly re­ported. Commencement at Saint Mary's will be on May 16. 
·····i~········~·····~ 
~  f!JI't 16  ..-·  :  
~•1!. $ev-V'­ CAFE  ::  
APRIL  

• 
W.cl. 1 Eddy CINrw-Frl. 3 Pri8CIIIa Ptollllpa & F~• Sat. 4 Duk• TOINIIoe & Po-r Trio 

• 
W.cl. 1 Junior Walle Fri. 10 HHI..tlon BluM ...... Slit. 11 HHitatlon B"-IISand 

• 
WMI. 15 Bl9 Twtell -low Fellows Fri. 17llh-• S.l.11llh-• 


• W.cl. 22 Lonnie Brook• Fri. 24 Soultlslde O...ny & The Sklnlonee Sat. 25 Soulhelde Denny I The Skin-• 
(" Wtndy C•ty We<lnesd••{s­Chtcago Blues Ar1tsts) 
Sunct.ye, Live: H•rvey Slau-. WVPE DJ Lunch I 01..-r ..... -Sun.. AU Cajun_, 100 Center, Mishawaka 
256-0710 
e You must be 21: cover charged. 

--------------------------------..-------------~ 
-·-------------~­
Tuesday, April14, 1987-page 6 

The Observer 

AP Photo 

About 60,000 residents were asked to evacuate as rescue crews worked to stop the leaking of toxic chemicals. 
Hart announces bid for presidency 
Associated Press him their help and their time: We've let right-wing ideology 
"You give me 20 days in the skew this nation's basic
DENVER -Gary Hart, stand­next 20 months, and I will give priorities. We've increasinglying coatless before the snow­
you a presidency you can be let narrow special interestscapped Rocky Mountains, an­
proud of." finance our campaigns andnounced his bid for the 1988 control our political process. 
Democratic presidential Invoking the idealistic rheto­nomination Monday and ric of John Kennedy, Hart con­"Most of all I think we havepromised a return to American cluded: lost a sense of the national in­ideals and a "presidency you terest and are in serious danger 
"Let us go forward from this 
can be proud of." 
of letting our future pass us

day committed to restore this
The 50-year-old former by."
land to all of its people, to res­
Colorado senator opened his 
tore a sense of genuine true pa­
second presidential candidacy Hart, known in the Senate for 
triotism to America. And if we
stressing idealism and . the his work on military reform
do, we will have done the
power of ideas, themes that al­and arms control, warned that 
greatest thing for this country 
·most wrested the 1984 Demo­domestic policies must not beany of us could ever do.
cratic nomination from former shortchanged as he said they"March on!" 
Vice President Walter Man­have been under Presidentdale. 
Reagan.

His formal announcement at
This time, it is Hart who is 
Red Rocks, a park 16 miles
ahead in the early polls, with from downtown Denver, was Hart is the third candidate to the rest of the still-increasing before his wife and daughter, formally join the Democraticfield of candidates bunched far reporters, cameras and staff. presidential competition,back. 
Hart said the park, begun with 
joining former Arizona Gov.

"I intend to be a candidate 
federal funds during the De­
Bruce Babbitt and Rep. Rich­for the presidency of the United pression, "is a symbol of what ard Gephardt of Missouri.

States in 1988, and I do so for 
a benevolent government can 
Massachusetts Gov. Michaelone single reason: and that is 

do." 
Dukakis, Sens. Paul Simon ofbecause I love my country," Illinois, Albert Gore of Tennes­Hart said as he stood in Red 

"Sadly, in recent years we've 
see and Joseph Biden of Dela­P.ocks Park for the morning an­

fallen far short of the ideal of 
ware, and the Rev. Jesse Jacknouncment. 

America," Hart said. "We've 
son will enter the race later this Later, Hart asked several 

let personal greed replace a 
spring. Arkansas Gov. Billthousand supporters at a rally 

sense of social justice and 
Clinton is still considering ain downtown Denver to give 

equity and the national good. 
bid. 

Sentences toughened, made more uniform 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. Sentencing Commission issued guidelines Monday to increase prison terms for many federal crimes and force judges to sen­tence people convicted of such offenses according to a uniform set of regulations. 
The guidelines are designed to wipe out wide disparities in penalties for similar offenses. 
"We want to take the two ex­tremities of our justice system, the hanging judge and the Baby Ruth judge, and pull them in together," commission Chair­man William Wilkins, a federal appeals court judge, told a news conference. Because of "unwarranted disparity" in sentencing, he said, "fairness is sometimes lacking." 
Wilkins also said the 
guidelines require that corpor­
ate executives convicted of 
antitrust offenses serve prison 
terms. Currently, only 28 per­
cent of those convicted of 
antitrust offenses are sent to 
prison. 
The certainty of doing time 
behind bars is intended to serve 
as a deterrent to businessmen, 
Wilkins said. 
The guidelines also are ex­
pected to cause a 10 percent in­
crease in the federal prison 
population over the next 
decade, the commission said. 
That population is now 42,000, 
a 75 percent jump since 1980. 
The guidelines, which will 
take effect on an experimental 
basis late this year, will in­
•crease prison terms for rob­bery, fraud, forgery, drug vio­
lations and a host of other crimes. 
In addition, new federal laws now going into effect target drug dealers and repeat of­fenders with a background of violent crime for longer prison terms. 
The commission approved the new sentencing system on a 6-1 vote over the weekend, and it now will be reviewed by Congress before going in effect. 
Commissioner Paul Robin­son, a Rutgers University pro­fessor, dissented, saying that "the guidelines treat identi­cally offenses that are of very different seriousness . . . The commission has chosen ... to mimic the mathematical averages of past sentences." 
Bank robbers would have an­other three months added to their terms by the guidelines, two months would be added for fraud and forgery, and eight months would be added to the terms of heroin dealers. Cur­rently, bank robbers serve an average of 44 months, those convicted of fraud and forgery serve just under seven months, and heroin dealers serve 29 months. 
Congressional and other crit­ics predict the commission's approach to sentencing will overwhelm already overcrowded prisons. Wilkins has acknowledged that the guidelines will cause some rise in prison population, but he in­sists it will not be significant. 
Judges who depart from the guidelines have to cite ag­gravating or mitigating factors in writing. 



The Obsel'\ler Is accepHng applications for the following paid positions: 
DAY EDITOR 

Questions should be directed to Jim Winkler at the Observer of­fice (239-5313). 
THE~SHOPPE  
PACKING. SHIPPING. STORING. MOVING. n.,AJ-.o..._..c...... BOXI!S. w...w,.,,....,,. ,..,,...,,... Te Melt YOOa St 1 + • MOVING 80XD • PACL\GE SIIJPIIING • GilT 80XEI • MAIUNG 111-.a • noaAGE80XD • LOOSEPACUNGMA......U. • GIJT A PACL\GE • SHIPPING ENVEUJIIIS WIIAPPING ANDCONT~ .-..,,_ IIIII 0./luOr A .,...._~ttl, .. IIW..P. 'r,.,..,fJ lf'•C•IIO.III! WI'A,.A ~Daitn6M1Dr,w .... ..lil•lfl#/«n~m. . .. Alid Tlwt MMIU c...,.m.l'rtcilf8!  
.. _,.......,.. ttnu" JMI..._ .. ..u~ ..... ... IUA ~I "' ~~ IUA t.l II'~~ --~ ...~.--...... .... kf.l'( .. .....'*....... l.,.,.,  

The 1988 Dome 
is now accepting applications for the following editorial positions: 
Managing  Extracurriculars  
Copy  Hall Life  
Sports  Academics  
Events  Index  
Seniors  Photo  

Applications can be picked up at the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune thru Thursday 
..• ! • 

-----·---------­
"ieVV~_O_i_n_t______________
T_uesda-y,A-prill-4,198-7-pa-ge7 

P.O.BoxQ 
Education must involve values of our society 
Dear Editor: 
In Gregory Maggetti's March 10, Viewpoint column, ("College students losing sight of world issues"), he wrote about a crisis in college education. As our society has placed an emphasis on individualism, so has college education been used to serve the ends of enjoying a materially rich life rather than a spir­itually rich one. Or, as a wise man once said, college education is viewed today as a means of making a living rather than making a life. 
There seems to be a wide gulf be­tween college and the outside world. The liberal arts education, a bedrock of the college education, is seen as relic from a dead age, an anachronism that cannot be applied to one's life. Many feel that history, theology, philosophy, literature and the other disciplines of liberal arts are solely the realm of scholarly high-browed elites , who wield their "education" as a merit of the high distinction of "culture." Cer­tainly a liberal arts education cannot enrich one's life, the realists contend, particularly because one is unable to find a decent job upon graduation with a liberal arts degree. 
As Maggetti points out, we must eval­uate our classwork, research and ex­tracurricular activities and decide "whether they reflect a spirit of commitment to the common good." While vocational training can only be applied to the professional aspect of one's life, an education can enrich one's life beyond measure. If the disciplines that we study are to have any affect on us, we must embody them in our lives. They cannot be left behind in the class­room and in the texts; our education must become an integral part of our lives. 
In addition to the issue of the college education and social justice that Mag­getti treats, I would like to mention an additional effect that an education can have on the individual. Not only can an education help us to confront the prob­lems that the world faces, it can also give us the tools to solve the problems that we encounter every day. Without some ethical and moral foundation to rely on, we can become lost in these times of sexual promiscuity, drug abuse and familial breakdown. If col­lege amounts to a glorified vocational­technical school, as Maggetti points out, we will become ethically and morally impoverished. If anyone ought to encounter the world with a strong set of ethical and moral responsibility, it is the college student. 
Given the notion that a college edu­cation can enrich one's life and that many do not seek to have such an ex­perience in college, one must wonder what is the purpose for going to college if it is not to have one's life enriched. Does one go to college in order to train oneself for a future high-paying job, or enroll with the rationale of seeking an education? Obviously, there are two different schools of thought on this issue. One must look further into the 


Doonesbury 
AS PMTa= 7He S.c.C.'s
SIR, I CAN SEE ~'Ve 
avGOING INV8'S776ATICW I TRY TO GE.T 7HROIJ6H MY 
HAIJ A fD./6/JAY, SO IU. 
INTO INS/P6 Tf?APIN6, CAN Q(MT/ONS AS Q1IICI(J.YAS 
liltNfJT7CB)A IJIS(JIEp-txP/.AJN 
ANCYIN WR NOIEM-7HAT... lJCR. ACCIJlJNTS... 
POS5/&C. 
I 

issue of the "well-rounded education." 
Does the handful of liberal arts require­
ments for graduation at Notre Dame 
constitute a well-rounded education? 
Or are they an example of the future 
"educated" elite, a case of disciplines 
that are offered to help one impress 
others with one's sense of culture? 
The crisis in college education seems to stem from the isolation of the values of an education from the values of so­ciety. If we are to make college rele­vant to today's world, we must be able to relate it to our current condition, and not to see an education as a means to a vocation, but as a means to making ourselves better people and enabling ourselves to construct a better world. The ideas which the liberal arts treat are not dead; they are alive in our world today. It is our duty to become, through our education, as Maggetti writes, "open-minded, well-informed, and cri­tical citizens of the world." 
William Murray Holy Cross Hall 
More space needed for south-quad parking 
Dear Editor: 

This is an open letter to the Admin­istration and the Maintenance Depart­ment. Now that the weather is nice and the golf course is in full operation, it 

Trudeau 
lHISOWi
11/HY f)ON'r I 

BEHAPPeN­
~eACK 

/N6. I?&A6AN
lATER, SIR~ 

IS5TIU..
I P/Wj/f)EN[! 
once again becomes obvious that the D-6 parking lot is too small. For those of us students who park there all year round, it is very frustrating not finding a space on any afternoon and having to park along the road leading up to WNDU. 
I think there is a simple solution to 
the problem. There is a large field be­
tween D-6 and the road leading to Car­
roll hall. Can't the University pave just 
part of it? Enough say to fit 30 or 40 
cars? That would alleviate the 
problem-simple as that. Those of us on 
the end of the South Quad would appre­
ciate it. 
Donald Seymour Morrissey Hall 
Jazz Festival proves enjoyable to students 
Dear Editor: 
I was surprised to read in Monday's inside column that Mark McLaughlin "managed to do nothing socially con­structive this weekend." He must have missed what I felt was the finest social event on. campus in recent memory ­the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
The music was great, the attendance was good, and the organizing skills of Kevin Cronin and friends were proven. 
Thanks guys for a fun weekend. 
Paul Dennee Off-Campus 
Quote of the day 
"The glory of friendship is not the outstretched band, nor the kindly smile nor the joy of companion­ship; it is the spiritual inspiration that comes to one when he discovers that someone else believes in him and is willing to trust him." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882) 

/
General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Ed1tor·m·Ch1ef ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager...... . ........ Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managmg Editor . .. .................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ......... Michael Whitton News Ed1tor.. . .................. Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager... . ...... Melinda Chapleau News fd1tor. . ................... Jim Riley Production Manager...... . ....... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty V1ewpomt Ed1tor . . ............... Chris Murphy Projects Manager ...... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Marys College It does not necessanly reflect the poilc1es Sports Ed1tor ................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager. . . .......... Shawn SeKton of the admtn1stra11on of e1ther 1nSt1tu11on The news IS reported as accurately and ObJeCtively Accent Editor . . Michael Naughton Controller.. . ........ Tracy Schindele as possoble Uns1gned edotonals represent the op1noon of the ma1onty of the Edotonal Board Samt Mary's Ed1tor .... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager...... ....... Laura Stanton Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the voews of thetr authors Column Photo Ed1tor ...... J1m Carroll Development Manager.. . ....... Michael Shannon space IS available to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of vary1ng op.n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged Founded November 3, 1968 
Accent 
Tuesday, April 14, 1987 -page 8 

getting involved for
HPC: 
the 'hall' of it 
TOM BEATTY  Hall spirit and enthusiasm for  hail president Arthur Phillips  
features writer  student government are not  feels that It Is a good, repre­ 
A sk a Notre Dame student about the particulars of  always easy things to evoke, however. "Within the dorm, It's  sentative organization. but says " ... any problems I had with it  
student government, and  definitely difficult to get hall  (the HPC) were in the way  
you're likely to get a blank  spirit going," according to out­ people in general view it." He  
stare. At the hall level. interest  going Lyons hall president  continues, "I think aiot of  
and knowledge of how It all  Judy Grace. She says that hall  people view it as a sort of bul­ 
works ranges from keen en­ ac~ivltles,  such as banquets  letin board kind of thing, where  
thusiasm to dour apathy.  and SYR's, were successful, but  only information like SYR  
As most students know, each  enthusiasm for hall and stu­ dates. and what movies are  
residence hall has its own gov­ dent government In general  playing this weekend are dis­ 
ernment, headed up by a presi­ was lacking. Grace said that  cussed." Phillips says that a  
dent, vice-president and, Ideal­ the Lyons hall council consists  typical HPC meeting is also a  
ly, a cabinet and judicial board.  of commissioners for upcom­ forum where various speakers  
According to DuLac, "This is  ing events, section leaders, hal_l  come and present their views  
the basic unit of student gov­ officers, and a representative of  on pertinent campus Issues.  
ernment. .. (it) works with the  the hall staff. The meetings are  like Parletals violations  . .  . . ....... ;;J'.-. . . .... -. ·... •.  
'  '  . _ ... -. j·  
... ..  .......  :·  .  ::·V'/·-~ .~ . . ..  
........  . .  '·  

'Ugly' Americans take 
bad rap 

A group of us were walking through the tube station last week. A man muttered, 'damn yankees' to us as he passed. Whether he heard us discussing Reagan and capitalism or, more likely, he just knew we were Americans, we were insulted. Why do Americans get such a bad rap in Europe? Why do they refer to us as 'ugly Americans'? 
There are hundreds of thousands of Americans in Europe. We see them in almost every city we visit. There are thousands of American students studying in London alone. For the English, it is not quite as much of a novelty to meet an American as it would be if roles were reversed­-For a Brit to visit the states. It is understandable that they feel we invade their country, yet this is due to the basic fact of the size of the U.S. and its huge papultion. 
Lisa Young 
The London Bridge 
But it isn't as if Americans are the only ones traveling inEurope. When we were on the continent, we met students from every country traveling to every country. We met some Australians who were spending two months in Europe. 
Maybe it is because Americans seem to be easily iden­tifiable. After a week here we could pick them out a block away. Our jeans, tennis shoes, and ray bans are like signs that say 'Born in the U.S.A.' We don't fit in with either the conservative English working class or the radical Lon­don Punkers. 
Our first week in London was very exciting. Everything was new to us, and we were havingfun getting acquainted with our surroundings. Yet very often we would look up and see a trainful of Londoners staring at us.
Matt Dlngens, newly elected president of Morrissey HaD The Observell'Mike Moran 
We still do. The English seem to be a very reserved people they rarely smile. Conversation, if any, is quiet
hall staff to develop the best open to all members of Lyons, penalties and hall activities fun­
and unanimated. our excitement is as much a part of our
possible environment for resi­but few attend. ding. 
age and culture as reservation is of theirs.
dents." How well has hall gov­Judy Grace points out that 
We aren't overly obnoxious. We laugh, and joke, and 
ernment moved to meet this Sophomore Jim Winkler, who HPC was active in ,sponsoring 
make fun of some of the British ways. Mostly we laugh
challenge? More Importantly, took office last Tuesday as co­activities as well as serving as 
at ourselves because there is so much we are not used to 
are hall residents involved in president of Alumni has some a legislative body. "Events like 
or don't understand. We forget that the doors here push
the governing process, and new Ideas about the purpose of the Aerobathon, which the HPC 
to go in and pull to get out. We quickly learned that if you 
what can be done to foster hall government. "Basically we sponsored, proved that it (the 
stand on the left-hand side of escalators, you will be run 
greater interest on the part of want to get more students in­HPC) was more than just a link 
over by hasty Londoners. 
the students? volved by having section between the dorms." According 
Of course there are quite a few times when we act down­
Morrissey's hall government leaders bring ideas to the hall to DuLac, the HPC is the most 
right silly --trying to get that 'once-in-a-lifetime' picture 
seems to have found a way to council. rather than having us representative of the student 
or mimicking a British accent. It's really not any different 
get the hall residents directly give them information." Accor­legislative bodies, because It is 
than we act at Notre Dame --except that we aren't shel­
Involved. According to Matt ding to Winkler, the hall secre­the forum for the widest cross 
tered by the Golden Dome. We forget that our actions can
Dlngens, newly installed presi­tary will have the responsibiilty section of views. 
be stereotyped too.
dent of Morrissey. an all-hall of writing and posting hall 
Another problem we have is the European opinion that 
meeting is called each Tuesday notes, leaving section leaders Ideas for increasing student 
Americans are rich --automatically. It is an easy conclu­
night after the weekly HPC 
free to discuss and comment input at the campus wide level sion to draw considering the amount of traveling we do
meeting, and residents are en­on the happenings in student through the HPC can probably 
and the souvenirs we buy. They probably don't realize
couraged to attend by attrac­government. Winkler has im­best be fostered at the dorm 
that most of us have either worked and saved for our
tions such as donuts and soda, plemented a hail events calen­
level. Morrissey's method of semester, or will owe a great deal when it is over. I wish 
as well as slide shows high­dar, located prominently in all-hall participation in hall I owned the oil well they think I do! 
lighting the exploits of Manor Alumni's lobby, to encourage council meetings has been 
So we are haunted by the 'ugly American' attitude. We
res)dents. "It's a great way to residents to get involved in hall proven to work well, and 
have come to understand where the stereotype comes
foster hall unity and communi­
events. Alumni's new method of having from, yet that does not mean it is correct. 'ugly' is a harsh 
cation of events and ideas Is 
section leaders bring the ideas word -'different' seems more appropriate; just two dif­
really quick." Dlngens points As far as the HPC is con­
to the hall council seems ripe ferent cultures clashing in subtle ways. out. cerned, outgoing Cavanaugh with promise. 


Business 
Tuesday, April14, 1987-page 9 

Texaco files for bankruptcy; future uncertain 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Texaco gained ground in its multibillon-dollar legal war with Pennzoil Co. by filing for protection under federal bankruptcy laws, analysts said Monday. 
In taking the step, Texaco relieved itself of the necessity of posting a potentially debilitating security bond against the roughly $11 billion judgment won by Pennzoil against Texaco in a 1985 Hous­ton jury decision. 
That removed a negotiating club that Pennzoil had been wielding over Texaco, giving the White Plains, N.Y.-based giant oil company plenty of time to negotiate a settlement, they said. 
This benefits Texaco because the more time it has, the more chance it has of winning a reversal of the decision, and the more time Pennzoil has to wait to get its money, or some part of the award. 
Even if Texaco eventually loses the fight, it still stands to be better off, said Bruce Lazier, an analyst at the Pres­cott, Ball & Turben Inc. secur­ities firm. 
"Pennzoil could win the final suit. But it's up to the bank­ruptcy judge to determine how much Texaco is going to pay," he said. 
In addition, Lazier noted, Pennzoil will have to stand in line for its money with other creditors whose claims are not backed by Texaco assets. 
In announcing the move Sun­day, Texaco officials insisted the company will be conducting business as usual while reor­ganizing its finances --a view some industry watchers sug­gested was optimistic at best. 
"It's not mirrors. It's not per­ception. It's a real bank­ruptcy," said Richard Lieb, a bankruptcy specialist at the Kronish, Lieb, Weiner & bel­lman law firm. "Texaco's got real problems." 
Texaco Chairman Alfred C. deCrane Jr. sought on Sunday to calm the fears of companies with which it does business. 
Under Chapter 11, Texaco 
Dow falls 51.71 points; traders fear inflation 

NEW YORK -Stock prices fell sharply Monday, as a late selloff in blue chips accelerated a broad decline in a market haunted by worries over rising interest rates and inflation. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down more than 51 points last week, fell 51.71 to 2,287.07. 
The average's drop was its fourth-largest daily loss ever. 
Prices in the broader market were widely lower for most of the session. Decliners outpaced advancers by nearly 7 to 1 on the New York Stock exchange, with 285 up, 1,429 down and 284 unchanged. 
Texaco fell 3% to 28 1/2, leading the NYSE most active Jist with 12.6 million shares changing hands, and Pennzoil plunged 15IJ4 to 77. 
Chemical New York fell 2 to 
42. The bank holding company said its first quarter profit fell to $1.58 per share from $1.93 per share in 1986. 
Borg-Warner rose 1% to 49%. 
the company said its directors had agreed to a $48.50-a-share buyout by an investor group led by Merrill Lynch & co., which topped a rival $46-a-share offer by GAF corp. 
Caesar's World rose % to 32%. investor Martin T. Sosnoff sweetened his hostile bid to ac­quire control of Caesars World Inc. to $32 a share from $28. 
Big Board volume totaled 
181.03 million shares, against 
169.53 million in the previous session. 
Nationwide turnover in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, to­taled 199.87 million shares. 
The NYSE's composite index fell 3.58 to 162.14. 
The American Stock Ex­change's market value index fell4.00 to 334.08. The NASDAQ composite index for the over­the-counter market closed at 423.71, down 7.22. 
will be free to conduct its busi­ness while all debts to creditors remain frozen as it seeks to work out a way to pay them. 
High on that list is Pennzoil, which won a 1985 judgment that Texaco wrongfully interfered with a merger agreement be­tween Pennzoil and Getty Oil Co. and then acquired Getty it­self. 
A houston jury awarded Pen­nzoil $10.53 billion in damages, since reduced to $8.5 billion, but with interest it amounts to about $11 billion. 
Texaco faced a Texas state requirement that it post bond equivalent to the award --or an amount suitable to Pennzoil -­while appealing the verdict. 
Texaco said it filed under Chapter 11 after failing to agree with Pennzoil on a bond that would not destroy its busi­ness. 
DeCrane stressed that only Texaco Inc., which is essen­tially a holding company, and 96 percent of the company's its two financing subsidiaries revenue and 79 percent of its would be affected. net property, plant and equip­
Those companies account for ment. 

Dow charts changing stock market 
By JOHN WHOLIHAN Business Writer 
Summer is almost upon us. Undergraduates are probably wondering about summer jobs. Seniors are anticipating their careers. 
Finance majors are familar with one way to invest their earnings from these jobs. But few engineers, accountants and English majors consider the stock market as an invest­ment alternative. 
The New York Stock Ex­change has been the topic of much discussion during the first quarter of 1987. 
Investors have had reason to both smile and worry. Although the Dow Jones average has climbed to record highs, volatility and insider trading scandals have rocked the mar­ket. 
1987 is expected to be a con­tinuation of the current bull market. A bull market is a market whose value is rising. 
Located on Wall Street in New York City, the Exchange is most famous for its daily transactions of approximately 2000 stocks. 
The most popular measure­ment of the Exchange's prog­ress is the Dow Jones Industrial 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&Saint Mary's Theatre production of 

by William Shakespeare 
Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday April 29-May 2, at 8:10 pm Sunday May 3, at 3:10p.m. 
Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony 
$4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun. Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239-5957 
Average (DJIA). The DJIA is composed of a price-weighted average of thirty stocks. 
The thirty stocks that make up the average are "blue chip," that is, they are well-known in their respective industries. IBM, McDonalds, and Proctor & Gamble are three of the stocks included in the DJIA. 
Besides the industrial average, Dow Jones also has transportation and utility averages. 
Carolina Freight Corpora­tion and Delta Airlines are two of the twenty stocks that make up the transportation average. The utility index consists of fif­teen stocks, including Southern California Edison and Philadelphia Electric. 
The money invested in this bull market comes from two types of investors: institutions and individuals. 
On the institutional side, many corporations and mutual fund companies have placed a higher percentage of their available funds into the mar­ket. 
The weak U.S. dollar has also sparked Japanese investment in the market. 
These groups have one thing in common. They want to in­vest where they will receive a high rate of return. Institutions cannot hold cash when there is the opportunity for large gains in a bull market. 
The current situation has also led the individual investor to take advantage of the stock market's average long-range return of nine percent. This is much better than the passbook account rate of five and a quar­ter percent found at most banks. 
One can see the major role low interest rates have played in the bull market. 
The bull market has wel­comed many new individual in­vestors; however, those indi­viduals who were in the market before 1983 have enjoyed ex­ceptional profits. 
To understand how the mar­ket evolved to Monday's DJIA close of 2287.07, one must look back to late 1982. 
The Dow was approximately at 1200 and started to move up­ward. Of course, one of the major factors that influenced this growth was the improve­ment of the economy. 
As the United States moved out of the recession unemploy­ment came down, as did inter­est and inflation rates. 
The market tends to rise if future expectations of the eco­nomy are positive. Since 1982, expectations have been high and the bull market has been in full force. 
The Dow approached 1900 before tumbling to ap­poximately 1700 in September of 1986. 
The slump was short-lived, however, as the market rebounded to 1960 by the start of December. 
The Ivan Boesky insider trading scandal encouraged stock holders to sell, and con­sequently, the Dow fell and finished 1986 slightly below the 1900 mark. 
The inside trading investiga­tions are continuing, but inves­tors' fears have subsided. 
Many investors also sold their securities at the end of 1986 to take advantage of the tax situation. 
Capital gains, profits made on selling stock held for more than six months, are no longer taxed at the special rate of twenty percent. 
Instead, they are now taxed as regular income, usually at twenty-eight percent. 
The market opened 1987 with the Dow reaching thirteen con­secutive new highs. The thirty­third new high was recorded April 6, with the Industrials closing at 2405.54. 
A recent raise of the prime rate has worried some inves­tors that interest rates will begin to increase. 
Most institutional traders are afraid to pull out of the bull market, though, which is a good sign for the individual in­vestor. 
How high will the market go before this phase of the bull market concludes? Nobody knows for sure. 
Provided that interest rates do not rise dramatically, the current market should be looked upon as a viable altern­ative for your investment dol­lars. 


-------~---------~---­
The Observer Tuesday, April 14, 1987-page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND golf team placed second out of ten teams at the Indiana Intercollegiates at Eagle Creek golf course in Indianapolis. Ball State won the 36-hole tournament with a score of 788, followed by the Irish with 806 8nd Milliken with 819. Norm Campbell finished seventh overall for Notre Dame with a 79-79-188 score. -The Observer 
In the NBA last night, Philadelphia defeated Washington, 133-105, Atlanta edged Indiana, 102-101, Detroit pounded New York, 120-100 and Chicago beat Mil­waukee, 114-107. -Associated Press 
The bicycle club will have group rides for beginning and experienced riders starting from the Administration Building at 3:45p.m., today through Friday. Everyone is welcome. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The Bookstore picture becomes clearer 
Tuesday's Schadule Stepan 1 
4:45 • Yacht Club vs. Team No. 166 
5:30 • Crocodile vs. 5 Really Cool Guys 
6:15 · Return of the MBA vs. Team No. 451 Stepan 2 
4:45 ·East Side Runners vs. The Team That Time Forgot 
5:30 • Team No. 471 vs. 4 O'So ...Fireman 
6:15 • 4 Midgets & A Dwarf vs. Playing...Veranda Stepan 3 
4:45 • The Board Bangers vs. Team No. 208 
5:30 • Captain Kirk... vs. Minahoonies 
6:15 • The Bosses vs. We Don't Dribble Stepan 4 
4:45 • Leona's Stallions vs. Team No. 51 
5:30 • C.J. & the Rastafarrians vs. Heat Miser 
6:15 ·Team No. 421 vs. Axe Wounds Stepan 5 
5:30 • OKRA vs. Uberace, Len Bias, & 3 Other Bad Cracks 
6:15 • Put It In The Hole Chief vs. 5 Hot Dogs...Condlments 
Stepan 6 
5:30 • SKOAD Men vs. What the Puck 
6:15 • 4 Guys... Newt vs. Fill It Up Bookstore 9 
4:00 • Jus' Tofu vs. Oliver North & 4 Other... 
4:45 • Cotton Club vs. Return of the Fugitive Guy 
5:30 • Air Daggers vs. Ten of Us 
6:15 ·Just When You Thought vs. Too Much in 
Fuch Bookat ore 1o 
4:00 • Raging Meat Users vs. Juan Boesky... 
4:45 • The Cunning... vs. Corporate Raiders 
5:30 • Groundskeepers vs. Notre Demon's 
6:15 • The Edge vs. All The President's Men Lyona 11 

4:00 • Myth Gods of Love & Destruction vs. OTIS HURTS 4:45-Gods & Men at NO vs. Yellow Subs X-Meats 
5:30 • We Eat Cannibals vs. Top Guns 
6:15 • SOMFAW vs. What the Hell Is Rasia 
Anyway? Lyons 12 
4:00 • Uncoachables Ill vs. 4 People & A Short Fat Guy 
4:45 • Malandros vs. Disgrace 
5:30 • II That's All We Get, We'll Do It Ourselves vs. Team No. 320 
6:15 ·A Priest, A Nerd, & 3 Dudes vs. Team No. 47 
Stepan 1 New Order over Rat Pack by 8 Missing Line over Fawn Hall's Desk Top Aerobics... by 11 Team No. 644 over G-Men by 9 Da' Brothers of Manhood over Team No. 124 by 14 
Stepan 2 Cop Car Thiel, An Ex-RA, and 3 Other Guys... over Team No. 303 by 9 Who's Next... Who Cares over Team No. 557 by 18 4 Fags & A Zahmbie over The Cool Team by 11 Killer Bees over Grand Illusion by 10 
Stepan 3 Rosie Palms ...Soccer Burgers over Digger Phelps & 4 Other Guys... by 16 Josephus & the Ethiopian Shimsham over Phil Collins, Monk Malloy... by 7 Dead Chicks Don't Say No over Fr. King & 4 Other Guys $100 Richer by 11 Swill 'n Swish over 5 Guys Who Put the Legend to Shame by 13 
Stepan 4 ND Law over The Condos by 4 Ed Smerciak's last Hurrah over Team No. 271 by 11 5 Guys From Carroll Who Beat Dillon over Budd Dwyer & 4 Other... by 1 0 Verkler's Construction over More Anonymous Freshmen by 10 
Stepan 5 7 Guys Who Still Can't Add over Michiana Express by 2 Grover & the Boys over Team No. 460 by 2 Ball-Headed Freak Daddies over Death Tongue by 2 
Stepan 6 We Pack Exlra Baggage over Holy Rollers by 9 We Don't Dribble Before We Shoot over Fat NO Chicks, Iran,... by 2 UGD II over 5 10" Guys by 11 
Stepan 7 Mr Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers over Gary's Kids by 8 
Bookstore 9 4 Slamma Jamma over Armed & Dangerous by 2 
Party at Chips over Dick Vitale's All-Universe Team by 16 Cubs Lose Again! over The Fighting Kernals by 10 
Bookstore 1 0 Mr. & Mrs. Marty Bullfrog over Trichotomies by 6 Harmless Pranks over Phi Slamma Jamma by 10 Tequila White lightening over But Isn't love More Important Than Sex by 10 
Lyons 11 Just When You Thought over Willie Wonka by 5 Carte Blanche over Jumping & Jerking ... by 12 
Lyona 12 Team No. 456 over Team No. 211 by 5 

1'he ClbMnw Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m~ until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 1'he ClbMnw Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m All classilieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per live
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277·7406 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287·4082 
UNIVERSITY RESUME Profeaalonal RHumH Student Ratea Near the Mall 272-&311 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$-· Non·tex1s for $$$tredit nex1 fall. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS, BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI 10·530. ph. 233-2342 
DID YOU GET A PICTURE 
OF HESBUROH AND JOYCE 

IN THEIR SUNGLASSES AT JPW??? 
II so. call Keith at 239· 7569 or 272-6795 
by today (or tonight). 

I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: 2Q-inch gold chain on Stepan Courts las! Wednesday, 4-1 during Bookstore game. If found, please call Vin at £2159. 
"LOST: LIGHT BROWN LEATHER WAL· LET. POSSIBLY LOST IN SOH, PLEASE CALL MICHAEL MORAN £2199, REWARD! 
LOST: one new leather indoor-outdoor MacGregor BASKETBALL on Tues 7 April alter 6:15 game. It wasn't even mine; I borrowed it from a good friend and would REALLY like to return it. So if you have it and are an HONEST Domer PLEASE CALL STEPHANIE AT 277· 8241. THANKS\111 
LOST: Black Wallet, at Senior Bar Wed. night·ID's, photos, etc. of sentimental value. Much appreciated if returned. Call Connie 277·3545. Reward. 
FOUND: Woman's wedding band, out­side law school. Call Gary at 234·8984. 
FOUND: Sunglasses in front of B·P Thurs. night Call 2187 or stop by 225 Grace 
FOUND: AIWA headset in cashier office 1014 call matt at 1682 to identify and claim 
Lost, grey Boston College sweatshirt, Stepan 3, Friday at the Bookstore games, please return to Bsdin 307·3713 
LOST: A brown Wilson Aggressor model basketball. last seen before the 2:30 game on Bookstore 1 0 on Saturday, April 
11 . If was a m1e overinflated. Jt is my nex1 door neighbor's from home, soils return would be greatly appreciated. If found please call T1m at 3450. 
LOST: HP tiC CALCULATOR ON THURSDAY, APRIL 9 IF FOUND PLEASE CAUL £1352 AND ASK FOR PETE 
LOST::Silver Bracelet at Bridget's Apr 2nd Hiph Sentimental Value-Reward Call Kathy284-4371 
LOST: Black purse, wallet, and check· books in 01 lot. You can keep the cash, credrt, and checks (they've all been can­celled anyway) but PLEASE return my ID or license so I can go out again. Call 287·3940 or send toP. 0. Box 972, Notre Dame. Thanks~ 
LOST: KODAK 35mm CAMERA by the PW vending machines Thurs night,¥.! at about 3am. I need H back desperate· lyii\Piease be honest and return it. II found please call Julie at 1308. 
FOUND: baige scarf at the Charity Ball. To claim call 3896. 
lost: Citizen's watch -Roman numerals with brown leather band. Somewhere on SMC campus. Please call 284-4288. 
Lost: at Turtle Creek. Blue Drexel Baseball Jacket with £8 on it. Please call Michelle at 284·5118. 
FOR RENT 
6 bedroom 4-6 students $40o-500 & utilities. Security system 234 6688 
SUM STOR:all belonings(incl lur)saf&1lecure Bill M.2327 416 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683· 8889 
House available June 1sf for long-term lease. $40Mno. 277·7121 before 9pm 
FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277­3684288·0955 
3 BEDROOM APART For 87-88 school year Partially Furnished $ 45Mno. CALL 233 6298 

87·88.4 BEDROOM CARPETED. 282· 2881 
WANTED 

ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physiclar>j>sychologist) who deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We can provide lots of love, opportunities, and a warm welcome from family and friends. Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call EllieiAian collect (212)-724·7942. 
WORK FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS SUMMER. 683·8889 
GOING TO PERDUE? TWO STUDENTS NEED RIDE TOf'ROM LAFAYETIE EASTER WEEKEND PLEASE CALL LAURE£2769 
DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND I NEED A PLACE TO UVE. THIS WILL BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282·3727. 
Despeately need ride to NYINJ, leaving 4116 and returning 421. Please call Scott at 3175. 
Bass player sought for rock and roll band. Preferably underclassman. Musical inter­ests include: Who, U2, Kinks, Cars, Pollee, Stones, BeaUes, Van Halen, Rush, Zeppelin. Call Pete at 4644 or Kurt at 3175 for more information. 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21 e. Coed, sleepaway camp, Massschusetts Berkshires, WSI, arts&cralts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, piano-play for shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock· etry, guitar, radio, video,archery, year· book, woodworking, RN and typists. Write:Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779­9406. 
Here lor the summer and need a place to stay? I need one female roomate to share Turtle Creek apt. Call SMC-5239 if interested. 
MARQUETIE: NEED RIDE FOR EASTER. CALL ROB-1821 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio for Easter Break. Willing to help pay for gas. Please call Pete at 4644. 
Need ride to CHICAGO and back over Easter WEEKEND (Sat & Sun) X4311 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT • fisheries. Earn $600 plu&Week in can­nery, $8,000·$12,000 plus lor two months on fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No experience necesssry, Male or Female.. Get the early star! that is necessary. For 52-page employment booklet, send $5.95 to: M&l Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CAU COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­INGS 914-381-4224. 
Are you travelling 1·80 past Youngstown lor Easter? I need a ride for 2 on Thurs. 4116 alter 12 noon. Call Dave 1049. 
Needed: A ride t()!rom Milwaukee or Sheboygan, WI lor Easter break. Call Paul2287. 
need ride to NJNYC can leave lues or later call Jim 232·8913 
HELPI NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO IN­DIANAPOLIS OR BLOOMINGTON FOR EASTER. PLEAS E CALL 2914. 
NEED 2 RIDERS TO SHARE CAR RENTAL TO CENTRAL NY. HAVE RADAR DETECTOR. CALL DEZ AT 284·4271. 
RIDE NEEDED TO FORT WAYNE FOR EASTER CALL DEIRDRE AT 1329· THANKS 
Need 1 Ride t()!rom 
U. of MICHIGAN for Easter 

Call Andy £1529 
DALLAS RIDERS WANTED For Easter Break-Call Tom 1079 
LONG ISLAND RIDE NEEDED For Easter Break-Call Jim 1157 
Need ride to DetroH Can laeve alter 4pm on Wad. CaH Joanna at 294-4248 
Here for the summer and need a place to stay? I need one male roommate to share a Hickory Village Apt. beginning mid-May. Call 2n·3093 avenings. 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS,OH SOP· HIA £2814 
FOR SALE 

Is H True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. Government? Get the facts todayl Call 1-312·742·1142 Ex1. 7316 
81' OMNI,4DR.,LOW MILES, AUTO TRANS,AIR, CALL 234·3792. 
1986 TREK BIKE for sale. Best offer. Call Pat 2n·8535 
OCiassical guitar, Yamaha G 231 wtase, excl cond $120, call Ron large 284·4613, 288·5236 
TICKETS 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Need one graduation ticket. I am getting 4, but I have 2 parents and 3 brothers and sisters. Can't leave my little sister at home. Please call DON at 3675 Will Pay $$ 
Need Graduation Tix--2 Do not need to be together. Will Pay $$ I am desperate Call MIKE at 3640 
NEEDED:Tang from anyone willing to give it up Call Mike 1865. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
LARGEST selection of Cliii'Monarch Notes in Michiana! Bur.>eii--Hexlbooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
Are you going to be hare lor SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
II so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues of the newspaper. The jobs are varied and, if you are inter­ested in newspaper training in your spare time, call The Observer offices and ask lor Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
The Observer 
and 
Spacial Olympics 
NEEDS YOUIII 

GLNOOMC -For information, write to: Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: "HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 
123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS WELCOME. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: "HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 
123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HAU. ALL MAJORS WELCOME. 
DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FULL· TIME JOB, AND I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. 
DRUIDS, UNITE. Elect Archdruid as UMOC. 
IGUANA FOR UMOC 
IGUANA FOR UMOC 
IGUANA FOR UMOC 
THANK YOU ST. JUDEI( 
I desperately need 2 Graduation tickets. II you help me, I will ensure your financial future, and finance your Senior Week Call Mark at 2339. 
OK this is my final offer tor Qraduation tickets. I'll give you my s1ster and my roommate tor two Graduation tickets. They do not even have to be together~ Call Mark at 2339. 
Need ride to Detroit. Will share expanses. Call Jon at 2100 
Haven't you always wanted to participate in a fixed election? Now's your chancel Start your campaign lor U.M.O.C. today. 
Archdruid lor U.M.O.C. 
Fr. Ted lor U.M.O.C. 

MINNESOTANS: HELP I I need a ride to 
MinneapoliS'S!. Paul lor 

Easter Break! I can leave as early as 
Wednesday and I am 

perfectly willing to share expenses. etc... 
II you can help 

me please call284·51 81 and ask lor Rac­
hael! 1111111 
Is it true that PEGGY DESMOND is con· sidering joining the convent? 
ROLAND BLUEMLE IS U.M~O.C. 
HE'S UGLY, HE'S VILE. HE'S SCUM, BLUEMLE FOR UMO!I 
want to be a druid? 

Call the Archdruid at 407 4 to get in on the big INDUCTION OF SPRING ceremonies next Tuesday all around campus. Equal opportunity employer. It's fun, it's happemng, it's now. Be therel 
Spring shall arrive . 

Ride offered to WASH. DC/ No. VA. Leave 4116 at noon Return 420 Call Jim Carroll at 2250 
HAPPY 21ST RAMONI Only 2 t2 shots-we'll have to get you the other 18 next week. 
Chris H 
Was it chance or was it fact, to meet this 
man from my Northern state? Lookin' hot 
in Masters attire. I was lealln' warm-you 
were on lirel TO the man with the grip 
ol a dead fish: Saturday's good night 
k1ss? I wish!! I trust youl Anni 
MANNY COHOON 
Congratulations on your success 
You're All THE FUDGE 

Maybe you should give louie his pants 
back...Aiter all, Hisn't nice to keep clothes 
that you borrow from people. 
love, Gladys 

KATHY "SPOOFETTE" DONAL$-A 3­WOMAN MAN 
GRIPE NIGHT AT B-P TUES. 8:30·10:30 "BE THERE OR DON'T COMPLAIN" 
GRIPE NIGHT "BE THERE OR DON'T COMPLAIN" 

SEUL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--· Non-texls lor $$$tredit nex1 fall. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI 1 0·530 ph. 233·2342 
.. 
Dumb Retarded UaeiHa Impotent Debesed Sadfat 
-you know who you .,. 
································································ 
Riders needed to Ohio UniversHy at At· hens. Leaving Frida)V 1038. 
rt;·;·;,h·i~p·;:;;;;~·i;;~-;;:,-;ki;;o·-.tiie 
Obaerver: 
11. Picking on that Incompetent, pseudo-production manageoollrch· Druid Mark McLaughlin elf night long! 
·The new A.N.E. (end proud to be one) 
COOL A 8·3·1 FOREVER -Lady in Red 
CHIP's CHIP"s CHIP's 
TONIGHT" 
The LAW 
Come tor the last big bash before break!!! 
Don't let a great night go by ........ . 
TONIGHT! The LAW 
CHIP's CHIP's CHIP"s 
CONGRA T'S to Robbenzo and Doug, two hot cheerleading studs! (but they're not just gorgeous bod's--they have bra1ns, too!) 
.. 
CONGRATS to BRIAN STARK and his FANATIC SUPPORT CREW on the AWESOME display of LEPRECHAUN abilities~ PAPANESI AND CO always did say that NUDE SKYDIVERS DO IT BET· TEA~ Room scenting by MR. & MRS. RHINELANDER. And remember kids, If you see the FETUS, DOGPILE him. 
OH MY GOD' Siobhan Stephen put an Ad in the Observer?! I'm surprised she spent the money because she's so tight. Mom would have written but you're adopted and she hates you! You better start studying for Emil, the nex1 quiz is in 10 days, and you sure didn't study hard enough for the last one I SKY THIS I The Candy Bar Kid 
BEWARE South Quad ... SMiJ is coming! -3rd Floor Cavanaugh 
To the person who wrote a personal to the girl who slams fuzzy navals, who are you?? I need more clues. Initials?? One of many fuzzy naval slammers this weekend 
...................ii~~·c-;~~-,..ii;;j;····.............. 
Tomko Sartori Rider Receski For Hall Council The heat is on in Holy Cross 
STRANDED IN SOUTHBEND FOR EASTER? SAB CHICAGO TRIP THIS FRIDAY COST $5.00 LEAVE ND AT NOON·LEAVE CHICAGO AT 1:00am SIGN UP AND PAY AT SAB OF· FICE,2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE BY 
THURS 
WVFI-AM 114 
Speaking of Sparta 
Join host Rudy Brandl and co-host Jamey 
Rappis and their special guests, Notre 
Dame baseball pitchers Mike Harmon 
and Bryan Tucker. for a night of baseball 
talk, both Notre Dame and professional 
tonight. Call 239·6400. 
5 Reasons why BILL FISH deserves UMOC 
1. 
He's never won an election 

2. 
He's rude. crude, and a social mutant 

3. 
He sees a high school townee 

4. 
He has no body hair whatsoever 

5. 
Because he's all spicy and nice 



The Observer Tuesday, April 14, 1987 -page 11 

AP Photo 

Philadelphia's Steve Jeltz turns a double play in baseball action over the weekend. The Cubs had their way with the Phillies last night, however, as Chicago's Jamie Moyer pitched no-hit ball for eight Innings to lead his team to a 5-2 victory. 
Padres set home-run record 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -The San Diego Padres established a major-league record Mon­day night when their first three batters hit home runs off San Francisco Giants pitcher Roger Mason. 
It was the first time a team's first three hitters had 
Baseball roundup 
Moyer loses no-hitter in ninth 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Jamie 
Moyer, in his 18th major­
league appearance, pitched no­
hit ball for eight innings as the 
Chicago Cubs defeated the 
Philadelphia Phillies, 5-2, Mon­
day night. 
Moyer, a 24-year-old left­bander who pitched his first major-league game last June· 14, was going for the first no­hitter ever at Veterans Stadium until Juan Samuel led off the ninth with a line single to center field. 
Von Hayes followed with a walk and Mike Schmidt singled home Samuel. Lee Smith then got the last three outs for his first save despite allowing an­other RBI single, to Lance Par­rish. 
Reds 7, Braves 2 
ATLANTA -Eric Davis had 
three hits, including a tiebreak­
ing double in Cincinnati's two­
run fifth inning, leading the 
Reds to a 7-2 victory over the 
Atlanta Braves Monday night. 
Davis' grounder over the 
third base bag ignited the Reds 
to their fifth victory in six 
games. 
Cardinals 8, Pirates 4 
PITTSBURGH -Jack Clark and rookie Jim Lindeman hit homers Willie McGee had a three-run triple as the St. Louis Cardinals used a pair of four­run innings to beat the Pit­tsburgh Pirates, 8-4, Monday. 
NHL playoffs 
Flames-Oilers rematch in jeopardy
opened the game with 
Associated Press 
After upsetting the powerful Edmonton Oilers in a tough seven-game playoff series last year and losing only once to them in eight regular-season NHL games this year, the Cal­gary Flames were looking for­
ward to a postseason rematch 
with their provincial rivals. But the Flames may not get
COMMUNICATION IN CLOSE 
that chance if Winnipeg con­
RELATIONSHIPS FOR COUPLES, 
tinues to have its way in their Smythe Division semifinal se­
FRIENDS, SPOUSES OR ROOMMATES. 
ries. The Jets rallied from a 2-0 deficit Sunday night to beat the Flames 4-3 in Game 4 and lead 
UNNERSITY COUNSELING CENTER, 
the best-of -seven series 3-1. The 
ROOM 300 
Jets can clinch a trip to the 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 6:30 PM 
Sponsored btl the University Counseling Center 
Women 

continued/rom page 16 
It wasn't all fun and games for some of the teams and vic­
Student Activities 
tory was bittersweet for Sweet­
ness, which was disqualified
is now 
accepting applications 


The Pirates led 1-0 after five 
innings on Johnny Ray's RBI 
single in the first as Doug 
Drabek, 0-1, limited St. Louis 
to two hits. 

But Jose Oquendo singled 
with one out in the sixth and 
Tommy Herr followed with an 
RBI double into the right field 
corner. 

Clark followed with his 
second homer of the season and 
the 31st of his career against 
Pittsburgh. One batter later, 
Lindeman hit his third homer 
of the season and third of the 
series. 

Danny Cox allowed six hits 
and three runs over six innings 
to improve to 2-0. 
Dodgers 4, Astros 2 
LOS ANGELES -Tracy Woodson hit his first major­league homer and Brian Hol­ton, another rookie, pitched five innings in relief Monday night as the Los Angeles Dodgers handed the Houston Astros their first loss in seven games with a 4-2 decision. 
Holton, 1-0, entered the game after starter Rick Honeycutt was forced to leave with a pulled muscle in his right side. Holton allowed four hits, in­cluding Phil Garner's homer with two outs in the ninth. 
Yankees 11, Indians 3 
NEW YORK -Willie Ran­dolph drove in five runs with four hits and emergency starter Charles Hudson pitched a three-hitter Monday as the New York Yankees won ther 
home opener by routing the 
Cleveland Indians, 11-3. 
Randolph, four for 20 this 
season entering the game, tied 
single-game career highs for 
RBis and hits. He had a three­
run-double in the fourth inning 
that gave the Yankees a 6-1 
lead and a two-run double in 
the fifth. 
Brewers 6, Orioles 3 
BALTIMORE -Cecil Cooper's second sacrifice fly snapped an eighth-inning tie as the unbeaten Milwaukee Brewers, off to their best start in history, defeated the Bal­timore Orioles, 6-3, Monday for their seventh consecutive vic­tory. 
Paul Molitor started the two­run rally with a bunt single, moved to second on a sacrifice, and stole third before Glenn Braggs was intentionally walked. 
Giants 13, Padres 6 
SAN DIEGO -Robby Thompson hit a grand slam to highlight a four-homer attack as the San Francisco Giants, overcoming a record homer binge by San Diego, beat the Padres 13-6 Monday night in San Diego's home opener. 
Angels 5, Mariners 3 
SEATTLE -Devon White hit a two-run homer in the top of the lOth inning to lead the Cal­ifornia Angels to a 5-3 win over the Seattle Mariners Monday night. 

homers. Two batters homer­ing to open a game had been accomplished 13 times in the American League and 12 times in the National League. The last team to ac­complish that feat was the Philadelphia Phillies, when Gary Redus and Juan Samuel homered last July 7. 
divisional final with a victory Tuesday night at Calgary. 
The Flames, who rallied to win Saturday night at the Win­nipeg Arena, looked like they were going to even the series Sunday night. But Brian Mul­len's power-play goal in the second period turned the game around. 
At Quebec, the Nordiques rebounded from two losses at Hartford to tie their Adams Division series at 2-2 with weekend triumphs. The Nor­diques failed to win at Hartford during the regular season, and Game 5 is there Tuesday night. 
Teams needing only one 
for having too many varsity athletes on the court. 
The Vicki Mouse Club kept One Mole With a Job and Four Unemployed Weasles out of work with a 21-3 win. Hard Li­quors defeated If He Liked You He Would Have Asked You Out 
for the following positions: 
ND AVE APTS Now Renting for Fall 

Completely Furnished, Balconies, Off Street Parking, Laundry, On Site Management & 
• LaFortune Building .Monitors 
• Stepan Center .Monitors 
Maintenance. All Deluxe Features. Pick up applications in the 
Ask about our Special Student Activities Office, 
Summer Rates 
Office at 820 NO AYE­234-6647 

301 Lafortune. 

more victory to advance to division finals are the Washing­ton Capitals, who beat the New York Islanders 4-1 Sunday night in the Patrick Division, and the Oilers, 6-3 winners over the Los Angeles Kings in the Smythe Division. Those series will continue Tuesday night at Washington and Edmonton. 
In the other series, the New York Rangers defeated the Philadelphia Flyers 6-3 in the Patrick Division, and the Toronto Maple Leafs nipped the St. Louis Blues 2-1 in the Norris Division. Those series, tied 2-2, resume Tuesday night at Philadelphia and St. Louis. 
by Now A.K.A. Sven Sweeties 21-15. Jim Baker's Other Wo­men dunked A Smoker, A Toker, and Three Alcoholics 21­10 and Not Mraid of Public Ridicule beat Nameless No. 69 by forfeit. 
The Penthouse Playmates defeated Indiana Oozzers by a forfeit because of an injury. Fi­nally, the Loud Proud Their Tacit Crowd silently lost to No Mercy by forfeit. 
Action continues tomorrow on both campuses as the players look forward to some new competition in the second round of play. 
The players on Hello My N arne Is Sue all wore team shirts with the number six and the name Sue, appropriately enough, on the back in their eight-point victory over Pearls and Sweats. 
"That girl Sue was really in­tense," said Jennifer Jagoe of Pearls and Sweats. "It seemed like she was everywhere on the court." 

------------~-~---~----­
_T_h_e_O_b_se_rv_er__________________________________________T_u_e_sd_a_y_,_April 14, 1987 -page 12 
Lanza, Spmell highlight Y elovich's line 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Recognition and respect do not come easy to an offensive lineman on any football team. But there is a growing trend on the Irish squad to combat those perceptions. 
Consider that the team voted center Chuck Lanza and right tackle Byron Spruell co­captains for the upcoming season. Not since Rocky Bleier of the 1967 team have the cap­tains come from the offense alone, and never have the cap­tains come solely from the line. 
"It's unique," says offensive line coach Tony Yelovich of the captains. "It's the first time I've been in a situation like that. Both are very dedicated academically and athletically, and they set fine examples for the players." 
Records 
continuedfrom page 16 
with a time of 49.42 and was the anchor leg of the victorious 1,600-meter relay team of senior Robert Nobles, sopho­more David Warth and Brown. Trailing at the start, the relay came from behind and stole a victory at the tape with a time of 3:13.8. 
Nobles and Warth finished fourth and fifth, respectively, in the 800-meter run. Both ran a 1:51.4 to finish one of the closest races of the day in a virtual tie. 
Freshman Mike O'Connor and junior Nick Sparks ran 3:51 and 3:52 to place fourth and fifth, respectively, in the 1,500­meter run. Junior Rick Mulvey took third in the steeplechase with a time of 9:17. 
Itwas a disappointing day for the field events as freshman Tom Kraus threw 53-2 in the shot put to finish fifth. 
Brown placed second in the 200-meter dash with a time of 
Both Lanza and Spruell saw extensive playing time last season, and Lanza was named an Honorable Mention All­American. 
It is interesting to note, however, that prior to last season both these players had 
Spring Football 
'87 

seen only a limited amount of playing time. In fact the entire offensive line was relatively in­experienced when Yelovich took over as the coach. An 18­year veteran of offensive lines, Yelovich whipped the players into a crack unit which, as a credit to its performance, went without much recognition. 

Now Yelovich is looking to use the experience gained by last season's starters as well as the developing talents of several reserves. 
The only starter lost to graduation is right guard Shawn Heffern. Freshman Jeff 
Pearson was expected to be the main challenger for the spot, but he has been suspended with Jason Cegielski and John Zaleski for the entire spring drills. 
Into this spot steps freshman Tim Grunhard, a 6-4, 240-pound freshman from Chicago, and Dean Brown, a 6-4, 250-pound freshman from Canton, Ohio. An ankle injury to Brown, however, has left Grunhard in the top position, with Vesey Wilborn backing him up. 

21.1, dropping a close race to Andre Phillips, an independent sprinter ranked number-one in the world last year in the inter­mediate hurdles. 
Phillips was not the only ath­lete running independently in the Stanford Invitational this weekend. Sprinter Valerie Brisco-Hooks and long jumper Jackie Joyner participated in the women's competition and several world-class athletes were on hand to challenge the men. 
"I was pleased with our per­formance against some great competition," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. "There were world-class people sprinkled throughout the whole meet." 
Times were affected by the strong headwind that chal­lenged the runners as they came down the home stretch to finish line, but weather condi­tions were considerably better than those faced in Bloomington last weekend. 
"I think things went well," said Piane. "It was a success­ful meet and things really im­
as time went on." 
Can you afford to gamble 
with the LSAT, GMAT, 
GRE,or MCAT? 
Probably not. Great grades alone may 
not be enough to impress the grad 
school ofyour choice. 
Scores play a part. And thafs how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course subjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So if yotive been out ofschool for a 
while and need a refresher, or even if 
yotire fresh out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. Take Kaplan. 
Why take a chance with your career? 
G\1.<\r. 6/


IKAPLirl187 
STANlfY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 110. 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 *CLASSES 
91 '~> 1 
* INDEPENDENT STUDY 
• .r1\."\: ~ 9 '~\..'{ \ 
*NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS 
~~'{ c

*TRANSFER DISCOUNTS! 
"The problem is really sol­ving itself," says Yelovich. "Both of them (Brown and Grunhard) are in an equal po­sition, and both have a great opportunity to start." 
At left tackle, Tom Rehder is the returning starter, but com­plications from pneumonia has kept him out of drills the entire spring. The opening has given the opportunity for senior Pete Rokich, who is returning after sitting out the fall season with a back injury, and Marty Lip­pincott to challenge for a spot with the first string in the spring drills. 
"Both of them are about equal," says Yelovich. "Pete started slow, but now he is really starting to pick up the 
offense." 
Tom Freeman returns to the left guard slot, and Ted Healy is backing him up. Chuck Kil­lian backs up Spruell at right tackle, and with center James Baugus out with a serious back problem, Steve Huffman has moved to second string behind Lanza. 
Rice takes SMU's place on schedule 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND -A football game against Rice will replace a canceled Southern Methodist contest in 1988, Notre Dame announced Monday. 
The game will be played at Notre Dame on Nov. 5, the date originally scheduled for the Southern Methodist­Irish game in Dallas. The change will give Notre Dame seven home dates in the 1988 season. 
Southern Methodist, whose 1987 football season was canceled because of NCAA rule violations, recently announced it will not play its 1988 schedule. 
WOW! 


THENIJTT/CilETTIJ !~~~r:!, 
/celandair Direct to Luxembourg from Chicago is only$689 round trip! 
• 
Free express motorcoaches to Germany, Holland and Belgium. 

• 
Only $15 by train to Switzerland and France. Economical Eurailpasses are available. 

• 
Kemwel Rent-A-Cars with no mileage charge start at only $79 per week short term and even lower for long term rentals.* 

• 
Prepaid Hotelpak coupons, start at only $26.00 per night in 19 European Countries.** 

• 
Our unrestricted fares are also super low priced to Paris and Frankfurt. 

• 
We fly from New York, Chicago, Boston, Baltimore/Washington and Orlando. ~ 


ICELANDAIR J-' 
CALL ICE FOR THE PRICE AT 1-800-223-5500 OR YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. 
Fare facts: Super Apex Fare is valid 611187 thru 9m87. 7 day minimum/60 day maximum. Payment 14 days prior to departure. Fares subject to change. Penalty for cancellation, $3 departure tax and $10 U.S. customs/immigration fee. Limited availability, other restrictions may apply. 
•Prices based on rate of exchange 2.11187~ ••Reservations subject to availability. Full refunds with a14 day pr~or cancellation. 


lhe Ohsent:r Tuesday, April 14, 1987 -page 13 
Rowing Club continues winning ways 
After upsetting Kansas over spring break, the men's lightweight eight boat of the Rowing Club defeated Michigan in a regatta hosted by Notre Dame last weekend. Nevertheless, the team still is not satisfied. 
"I was really happy about our performance be­cause Michigan's always been a nemesis, but our main goal is the Midwest Sprints, and that's two weeks from now," said Greg Shadid. "That's the biggest race of my life, and I don't want to get complacent about winning our own regatta." 
The Irish will compete in the Midwest Sprints on April 25 at Madison, Wis. Winners there will ad­vance to the NCAA Championships. 
Notre Dame had much to be pleased about in last weekend's regatta at the Mishawaka end of the St. Joe River. The men's heavyweight four was another winner for Notre Dame, and the heavyweight eight also placed among the top three. 
In its final competition of the year, the Women's 
Soccer Club placed second out of four teams in Sun­
day's Notre Dame Invitational Spring Tournament 
held at Stepan Field. 
Notre Dame went undefeated throughout the 
tournament, winning two matches and tying an­
other. The Irish defense shut out the opposition in 
all three of its matches. Indiana won the tournament 
championship by virtue of having more total goals 
than Notre Dame. 
"The defense was good, especially Michelle 
Spring's play," said Karen Logsdon. "She was just 
really good in the back, and the goalie, Helen Gil­
boy, was really good. They played a controlled 
game." 
Notre Dame tied Indiana, 0-0, in its first match 
of the day, and defeated Loyola, 3-0, in its second 
match. Joy Sisolak, Jane Titterton, and Susan 
Haling scored for the Irish. 
The Irish then knocked off Saint Mary's for the 
first time in three tries this year with a 1-() triumph. 
Sisolak scored the winning goal for Notre Dame. 
"We really are strong and aggressive, and we 
had a really good attitude," said Logsdon. "I think 
that's why we did really well. We're a young team, 
and we just played tough." 
Club president Kate Titterton organized the tournament, which was hosted by Notre Dame. 
The Men's Volleyball Club ran into two surprises during the past week--one surprise which was pleas­ant and one that was not quite so pleasant. 
In last Tuesday's match against Ball State, a var­sity team ranked eighth in the nation, the Irish won a game from a varsity team for the first time and nearly took the match as well before falling, 15-9, 14-16, 15-11, 15-11. 
"It was probably our best match all year," said Club Vice-President Mike O'Grady. "It was a case of playing up to our level of competition." 
The Irish were not able to carry this momentum over to last weekend's Midwest Intercollegiate Vol­leyball Association championships at Wheaton Col­lege in Chicago. Notre Dame had hoped to reach the finals, but instead placed fourth out. of Reve'lteen 

Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 
teams, losing to eventual champion Illinois State. 
"We played all right, but not well enough," said O'Grady. "We thought we could win, but we came up short. Everyone gave a great effort. The com­petition was right where we thought it would be, and the matches were tight. It was about what we expected, but we couldn't pull it out." 
The Irish get another chance at knocking off a nationally-ranked varsity team tonight at the ACC Pit. Notre Dame will put its 26-7 record on the line against IUPU-Fort Wayne at 7:30p.m. IUPU-Fort Wayne has already defeated Notre Dame earlier this year, but the Irish feel more confident facing varsity teams after the Ball State match. 
"A lot oftimes there's been an intimidation factor when we play varsity teams, but we conquered that by playing a close match with one of the top teams (Ball State)," said O'Grady. 
Mter winning two of three games in the season­opening ND Tourney, the Fastpitch Softball Club split two doubleheaders last week, giving the team a 4-3 record going into the Easter break. 
The Irish beat Marquette, 5-0, and Lake College, 
11-0, while losing to Purdue Calumet, 9-6, in the 
tournament, which was eventually won by Mar­
quette. 
In the first doubleheader, Notre Dame beat Lake · College, 9-4, in the opening game but lost the second 
game, 2-1. The Irish then lost the first game to St. 
Joseph's (Rensselaer), 10-3, and won the second 
game, 7-6. 
"We have a really young team with a lot of fresh­
men and sophomores and only one senior,'' said 
Club President Barb Mooney. "We're improving a 
lot, and the freshmen are getting into it a lot more." 
The Irish have been boosted by a strong pitching 
staff featuring Mooney and freshman Susan Fenn. 
The staff was depleted last year following several 
injuries. 
The Irish have one more tournament this year 
and seven more doubleheaders through the begin­
ning of May. 
"We're looking pretty good," said Mooney. "A 
lot of the club teams are folding, so it's hard to get 
a good schedule, but we should fare pretty well 
against the teams we are playing." 
The score of the Rugby Club's victory over 
Northwestern Saturday at Stepan Field appears 
close, but according to Club President Quentin Wil­
liams, the 18-17 score in this case is deceiving. 
"I thought we dominated them basically," said 
Williams. "They scored a couple of times right at 
the end, and we kind of let down. The referee let 
the time go a little bit long." 
Chris Quigley scored twice for the Irish, and Sean 
Higgins also turned in a solid performance for Notre 
Dame. 
The B side also downed Northwestern, taming 
the Wildcats by a score of 4-0. · 
The Irish will be on the road at Michigan State 
this weekend, then return home to host two more 
matches this spring. 
stages of the game before Brown picked up the pace and had the fast break rolling, Brown assessed his first game in this year's Bookstore tourn­ament. 

"I'm tired," laughed Brown. "I just came from (spring foot­ball) practice, but I shot OK though. We'll do what it takes to win -today we ran the break well." 
Party At Chips When We Repeat was in championship form yesterday as it blew away Dick Vitale's All-Universe Team, 21-5. Steve Beuerlein led Party At Chips with eight points, and Mike Kovaleski added seven as the defending champions ran a smooth fast break and controlled the boards in another big victory. 
"We want to repeat," said Beuerlein, "but we're out here to have a lot of fun, too. Today the crowd was obviously against us, as usual, but that made us work a little harder." 

Who's Next...Who Cares looks ahead to the fourth round after pummeling Team No. 557, 21-3, and UGD II cut down 5'­10" Guys, 21-9. Both winners turned in true team efforts in their wins -the kind of play that carries a team in the later rounds. 
The Cool Team was down­right cold, as was their op­ponent, 4 Fags and a Zahmbie, in a game won by the Fags, 21­
10. The winners shot 21-of-61, while the losers shot 10-of-66. 
New Order exterminated Rat Pack, 21-13, behind Joe Hills' eight points and six rebounds. Teammate Ray Blajda pulled down 10 rebounds for New Or­der. 
George Stewart's eight points paced Verkler Construc­tion to a 21-11 victory over More Anonymous Freshman. If Verkler and 'Da Brothers of Manhood both win Wednesday, the two teams would meet in a star-studded game in the Aus­tin Carr Sectional champion­ship next Tuesday. The game would feature a matchup be­tween former Notre Dame bas­ketball teammates Jim Dolan and Royal, and a meeting be­tween Head Coach Lou Holtz and flanker Brown. 
Today's games will finish up the third rounds of the tourna­ment. The fourth round, featur­ing the addition of referees, begins Wednesday and resumes next Tuesday. 

Heat 
continuedfrom page 16 
ous, 21-19, in a dramatic game on the Bookstore courts. Armed and Dangerous played a tough zone defense that neutralized 4 Slamma's inside game, but Flannery stripped the ball from a fast-breaking Armed player, and tipped in a Scott Hicks' miss to send his team into the fourth round. 
"Armed and Dangerous came out prepared and played very tough," said Hicks, who scored six points. "We are going to have to play tough against these teams, but we're here to go all the way to the finals." 
Carte Blanche grounded Jumping and Jerking, 21-9, be­hind Tony Rice's 8-of-9 shoot­ing. Well, shooting isn't exactly the word -six of Rice's points were on slam dunks. That per­formance is two short of the Bookstore Basketball record of eight dunks in a game, held by former Irish and present NBA star Orlando Woolridge. 
Da' Brothers of Manhood, with Tim Brown but without Donald Royal, destroyed Team No. 124, 21-7, behind Kim Adams' six points and Brown's 5-of-6 shooting. Da' Brothers shot 21-of-33, hitting with ease from the outside in the early 
CLASS OF 198a-----. 
Senior Portraits for the Dome Yearbook will be taken Wed­nesday through Friday, April 15-17, in the Chicago Room, 3rd Floor Lafortune Sudent Center. 
•..ltl''~ 
.--JV-.1, 
__.......___,.. t 

·~ i~ ~-~if[~ 
Take your Picture NOW before your Spring Break tan fades! 
Sign up for your sitting by call­ing 239-7308. 


Skupien 
continuedfrom page 16 
leg injury. Gallo said that the injury is a day-to-day thing. 
The Irish came back in the second game behind a heavy hitting attack and a solid effort from starting pitcher Brian Piotrowicz to win, 8-6. The freshman right-hander went the distance, allowing only three earned runs in seven in­nings to raise his record to 2-3. 

"Brian Piotrowicz was put into situations where the defense broke down," said Gal­lo. "We didn't catch some fly balls and didn't make some plays in the infield, and they got back in the game. Piotrowicz had the bases loaded and one out at the end, and he got out of it." 
Chris Flynn had two hits in the game, including a home run, to drive in three runs and score two runs. Tim Hutson continued to have the hot bat, slamming a two-run homer for 
Correction 
Due to an editing error, a story and headline in Mon­day's issue incorrectly stated that the soccer team finished second in the Nor­thern Illinois indoor soccer tournament. The team ·lost in the quarterfinals of the championship round. 

the game-winning RBI. 
Notre Dame's hitting attack that had produced 49 runs in four games ended on Sunday. Tulane pitcher Sam Amarena, who had pitched over fourteen innings in a game just four days earlier, looked like he had been rested for weeks. Irish outfielder Scott Rogers led off the game with a single up the middle and eventually scored, but that ended the Irish offen­sive highlights for the after­noon. Amarena hurled a one­hitter, striking out twelve 
batters, as Tulane won, 7-1. 
The Irish have a chance to improve their record in four road games this week and a home doubleheader on Easter Sunday. Notre Dame will be at Valparaiso today at 2:30p.m., at Purdue tomorrow at 2:30 p.m., and at Detroit on Satur­day for an afternoon doubleheader before returning to Jake Kline Field for a doubleheader with St. Joseph's. 
Valparaiso defeated the Irish earlier in the season, 9-5, at Jake Kline Field. 
"Valparaiso beat us pretty solidly here, so the players will be anxious to play them again," said Gallo. "Purdue has a very good hitting club. Detroit's kind of struggling this year, but they always are anx­ious to play Notre Dame, and they beat us four times last year. 
"These games will play a very integral part on how we end up the season. There's still a great opportunity to have a good season. We're starting to play better. We're starting to get to the point where we were when we got back from Texas." 

The Observer Tuesday, April14, 1987 -page 14 
Women's tennis splits, hosts Western Mich. 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
Mter splitting matches against Toledo and Eastern Michigan over the weekend, the Notre Dame women's ten­nis team hosts Western Mic­higan tomorrow at 3 p.m. 
On Saturday, the Irish defeated Toledo, 7-2, by taking five of the six singles matches and two of three doubles matches. 
Three singles matches went three sets apiece, and the Irish fared well, winning two of those three. Stephanie Tolstedt defeated Missy Buck, 3-6, 7-6, 6-1, and Alice Lohrer defeated Ann Harrah, 7-6, 5-7,7-5. Junior co-captain Michelle Dasso was upended, 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (9-7 tie­breaker), by Lisa Donnelly. 
Although Dasso has not seen things go her way in singles ac­tion, she and partner Lohrer are on a tear in doubles play. They defeated Donnelly and Harrah, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
"That was the best match they've played since the Ohio State match,'' said Head Coach Michele Gelfman. "They hit the ball hard and they took the shots that they wanted to." 
While Dasso and Lohrer's doubles play has been nothing short of spectacular, Tammy Schmidt and Resa Kelly remain a model of consistency, winning three of their last four doubles matches. 
The singles play of Natalie Illig has been another bright spot for the 6-8 Irish. Illig was the only player to win both her singles matches over the 
Yankee great Mantle hospitalized 
Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas -Baseball Hall of Farner Mickey Mantle was in fair condition Monday after being hospitalized for ~best pains, a hospital spokes­woman said. 
Mantle's condition was upgraded from serious to fair early Monday, said Sharon Peters, spokeswoman for Ir­ving Community Hospital. She said Mantle was in the inter­mediate coronary care unit. 
The former New York Yankees' great released a brief statement through hospital of­ficials. 
"I'm tired, but I'm feeling fine," he said. Peters said Mantle indicated he would have no other comment. 
Mantle, who lives in Dallas, was stricken late Sunday on a Delta Airlines flight bound for Dallas-Fort Worth Interna­tional Airport, said Ramona Bevir, a hospital spokes­woman. Paramedics met the flight. 
She said doctors confirmed that Mantle did not suffer a heart attack. 
In December, Mantle ended his association with Del Webb's Claridge Hotel Casino at Atlan­tic City, N.J., where he was director of sports promotions, primarily handling public rela­tions and playing golf with casino customers. 
Mantle, 55, was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1974. 
weekend. Against Toledo's Lisa Ambrosetti, Illig won, 6-4, 6-1. Illig then defeated Eastern Michigan's Gina Radeck, 6-4, 6-0. "Natalie has come a long way in two years," said Gelfman. "She plays with a lot of intensity and she's learning to turn a defensive situation into an offensive one. 
"Overall, I think the team is playing relatively well. Some­times our play is sporadic and we have trouble getting every­one to play well on the same day, but I'm sure that will work itself out." 
Wednesday's match against Western Michigan should be another close one. During the fall season, the Irish lost, 6-3, but Notre Dame is counting on the strong doubles play and the home court advantage to even up the score. 
The Observer I Mike Moran

If weather does not permit 
Scott Hicks of 4 Slamma Jamma (near rim) The Jammers escaped this game Monday with
outdoor play, the matches will 
fails to live up to his team's name as he misses a 21-19 victory. Brian O'Gara details the action
be moved indoors to the South 
a slam against Armed and Dangerous. Defend­beginning on page 16. Bend Racquet Club. in~ for Armed and Dan~erous is Ron Giometti. 


This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to
$ 

the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. 
For just $89 round trip, you and your friends 
will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes.
,.GOGREYHOUND
EMAooleavethe driving to us: 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Mus! presenl a valid college smdenti.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for trJvd on (ln.'yhound Lines, Inc., and other participating carriers. Certain reslricrions apply. Offer effeclive 2/V'Kl through 4/30/H7. Offer limitlxi. No! valid m ( :anada. ii" l'ltf? (lrt-yh,,und l.lllel>, Inc. 


'JI['~~ttll~--------------------------------------------------------T-ue•s-da_y_,_Ap•r•il•1•4,_1_98•7•--pa•g•e--15
Bloom Count Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Y()().l68l.IITT, If YoW ffJN'T 51lJP fJWJ6/N6 M&, IU 
~~~~~MY t£1117 ~­f'ti/Ye!? !!frt: 1H€ H€1/P (Yf 'lOri!? WIFE 
Beer Nuts 
VII ... [XWSf H[-NO,NO, 
GOULDA a? ftRHAP5 A IXJj,.jN U[R[ ·' TI-l[ 6UrS 
NILP CJI£ta4R j.l){)IJ) 8[ ELEc.TED f£ TO TELL YOV 
A NIC£ UIAN6[. TI!ANKS. 
THAT YWR UIOtC£ OF Sf,JI~ Cl-IffS£ R:JR Tllli t'WSf­TRAP<; :JusT NDtlT OJT IT. 
Campus 
Elections for ND Management Club offi­cers all day in Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.: University Food Ser­vices presents T.V. Generation Lunch; come and relive the past with some of your favorite T.V. lunch specialties, like Alphabet Soup and Spaghettios 
12 p.m.: Kellogg Institute (Brown Bag) Seminar "The Peasantry and Nicaraguan Agrarian Transformation," by Michael Zalkin, ND, 131 Decio 
3 p.m.: Varsity Softballi SMC vs. Taylor University, SMC Softball field 3 p.m.: Varsity Tennis! SMC vs. Kalamazoo College, SMC Tennis courts 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar "Protein Purification by Affinity Partition," by Prof. Alfred Carlson, Penn. State University, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
4 p.m.: Justice Education People and Jus· tice Film "For Export Only: Pills," Stapleton Lounge 
4 p.m.: Civil Engineering Seminar "Photochemistry of Natural Waters," by Dr. Bruce Faust, Swiss Federal Institute for Water Resources and Water Pollution Control, Switzerland, 358 Engr. Board Room, Fitzpatrick Hall 
4 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture "Populorum Progressio: Twenty Years After," celebrating the 20th anniversary of Pope Paul VI's encyclical: "On the Development of Peoples," by Prof. Dennis Goulet, Library Auditorium 
OPf/S... 7l?Y YcXI'i' WI/ -WA ~/JilL /V(}W. 1/NYTH!NG r 
I 
Mark Williams 


The Daily Crossword 
4: 15 p.m.: Senior Piano Recital by Lynn Giusti, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum 
6:15 p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop "How to Manage Your Anger, Part Two, by Tom Thompson, M.A., In­tern, 122 Haggar 
7 p.m.: Presentation, "Juniors: How to Fill Out Your Profile Form," by Paul Reynolds, Associate Director, Career and Placement Services, 123 Nieuwland Sci­ence 
7:30 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series "Repo Man," 1984, color, 92 minutes, di­rected by Alan Cox, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
10 p.m.: Mass in Sacred Heart Church (Penance Service) Presider: Fr. Andre Leveille 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Beef Stew over Biscuits Russian Vegetable Pie Hot Open Faced Cheese Sub Roast Breast of Turkey 
Saint Mary's 
Chicken Cacciatora Baked Breaded Fish Beef & Bean Chimichanga Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Applies 
lightly 5 Mention 9 Ring stone 
13 Concerning 14 "A Bell tor-" 16 Cantrell of 
music 17 Like-of 
bricks 18 Tropical fish 20 Statutes 21-de deux 22 Foots the bill 23 Prized name 25 "Bali-" 26 Swagger 27 Arranged 
troops 32 Coach 33 Object 35 Krona eamer 36 Hautboy 38 Feasts 40-Wiesel 41 Acidifies 43 Aeries 45 Pioneered 46 Diplomatic 
officials 48 D'Artagnan's friend 50 Energy unit 
of a kind 51 Cupid's ammo 52 More wan 56 Rainbow shape 57 Open 60 Fish 62 Chest sound 63 Amour 64 "-Water­
front" 65 Shetlander 66 Appear 67 Algerian 
governors 68-out (makes do) 
DOWN 1 Make a call 2 Square pillar 3 Fish 4 Light device 5 Covered floors 


6 Utopian 7 Urchins 8 Printing 
measures 9 Gr. pitcher 10 Hemingway 
epithet 11 Dill old style 12-Porsena 
(legendary 
king) 15 Ready 19 Seed coverings 24 Future flower 25 Toast word 26 Wooden shoe 27 Buggy milieu 28 Be in debt 29 Fish 30 Singer Adams 
et al. 31 Legal paper 32-Nostra 34 Extracted ore 37 Notable time 39 Carbohydrates 
of a kind 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
SPAT EIIC All M IC.LIOIO 
A ARION AILIEIE A I DIA 
LIMPS DAIIL IRIEIEID 
DEGRADE IORIEIIIIII 
-E A V E R E W A RIDIE D CADRE MOTEL.URI HIDE fGOURD ANNE ADO.ARIOSE ICADIET RENE G AIDE PARE­
IIIIIIIR 0 T DESERVE 
A L V A F 0 A M I N E R T L I E N U R S A E R A S E M 0 A T L E T S R A D A R 
42 Rock debris 53 Clog e.g. 
44 Liner: abbr. 54 Skeppist's 
47 Mute Marx concern 
49 Gruff 55 Short notice 
51 Government: 56 Comic Johnson 
suff. 58 Lily plant 52 Piercing 59 Soaks hemp instruments 61 Completion 


Stranded in South Bend for Easter??
ESCAPE 
on the SAB Chicago Trip, Friday, April 17. 
Leave N.D. at noon, Leave Chicago at 1:00 Costs only $5.00 Sign-up and bring payment to SAB office, 
2nd floor LaFortune by Thursday. 
Tuesday, April 14, 1987 -page 16

S~orts 
15 games mark opening I "l of Women's Bookstore 



By ANNE GALLAGHER Sports Writer 
Women's Bookstore Basket­ball opened yesterday on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Games ran smoothly except for a few minor injuries accor­ding to chairwoman Barbara Tull. For some players high winds seemed to hamper play, however the holding off of the rain was welcomed by all the competitors. 
Women's Bookstore Basketball 

"The competition was good and everyone played fair," said Suzi Sullivan of Now I Know How Joan of Arc Felt. 
Most players agreed that the level of competition the courts was very high, but their main objective was to just go out and have fun. 
Exciting action could be found at Notre Dame on the Lyons courts. The Fast Break Five defeated Robie's Heroes, 21-4. The Fast Breakers broke away in the first half with a 10-0 lead, but the Hereos were not conquered so easily as they came out with some coura­geous defense in the second half before finally giving in. 
Cynthia Guickuien led the Breakers, hitting 9-of-16 shots, and teammate Vicki Buth added five buckets to secure the victory. 
Two runners set records at Stanford 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Running against the wind-­that is what the Notre Dame track team overcame to set a new school record at the Stan­ford Invitational. 
The Irish encountered strong winds on the West Coast Satur­day, but that did not stop junior Dan Garrett and sophomore Ron Markezich from breaking the school record in the 5,000­meter run. 
Garrett placed second with a time of 14:10.6, crossing the finish line a fraction of a second behind Mark Olsen's winning time of 14:10.5. Markezich ran a 14:11 to place third as both Irish runners qualified for the IC4A Championships and erased the old school record of 
14:23 set by Mark Novak in 1980. 
Freshman Glenn Watson placed third in the 110-meter high hurldes with a time of 14.5 and helped the 400-meter relay team of junior Tony Ragunas, freshman Yan Searcy and junior Tim Brown finish second and qualify for the IC4A's with a time of 41.8. 
Searcy added a fifth-place finish in the 400-meter dash 
see RECORDS, page 11 
"We want to cruise through the tournament on our height and good looks," said Patti Briody of the Fast Breakers. 
A total of 15 games were played and five were forfeited. Two of the forfeited games were because of injuries, but most of the teams managed to scrape by the competition with minor cuts and bruises. 
"The games seemed to run smoothly and the tournament was well organized," said 

Grace Giorgio of The Funniest 
The Observer I Mike Moran 
People I Know. 

Notre Dame's Steve Skupien (10) is greeted by knocked two more home runs in the first game
On the St. Mary's campus be­
Pat Pesavento after hitting his first home run against Tulane Saturday.
hind the Angela Athletic 
of the season earlier this month. Skupien
Facility, Five Girls in Search of Large Condominiums defeated Holy Hanna, Who Are 
Irish take one of three from Tulane
We Trying To Kid by forfeit. 
Chicago, 20-3, on Wednesday, and won one game in a three­game series at Tulane over the weekend. Tulane was one game away from the College World Series last year, and holds a 28-12 record this year. 
"Tulane is one of the strongest programs in the country, year in and year out," said Irish head coach Larry Gallo. "Playing a team like that, it's a big win for our pro­gram. We played well in the one we won; however, we lost the other two." 
Seeded teams emerge as Bookstore heats up 
By BRIAN O'GARA ahead, 23-22, and Carl Collins Sports Writer finished the game off with a jumper after both teams had 
Bookstore Basketball saw several opportunities to tie or perhaps its best day of action win the contest. Monday, as several ranked "Nobody had scored more teams continued their runs for than 13 against us before now," the championship and many said a drained Singleton. more teams turned in fine per­"They were really tough. I can formances. just imagine the next game. I 
Bookstore Basketball XVI 
With early-round joke teams hope Braxston (Banks) is on and pretenders out of the way, time for that one, too. We were we are now entering the guts­glad to see him out here early and-glory period of the tourna­today." ment. Yesterday's victors and In another overtime today's third-round winners matchup, 7 Guys Who Can't will have the distinction of Add derailed Michiana Ex­being the top 64 survivors in the press, 22-20, led by Rob Kossler 662-team field. and Tom Shallow who com­
In the highest-scoring con­bined for 14 points. ND Law test of the day, Ball Headed sunk The Condos in a near­Freakdaddies licked Death upset and very physical, hard­Tongue, 24-22, in a thriller at fought contest, 21-17. D.J. Stepan. Xavier Victor led the Moorman chipped in eight Freakdaddies with seven points for ND Law, while Gabe points, while Ryan Singleton Powers scored eight for The chipped in five and pulled down Condos. nine rebounds. Steve Morse Ray Flannery scored seven gathered 15 rebounds for the points, including the game­losers. winner, as 4 Slamma Jamma 
Despite losing a contact lens shot down Armed and Danger-in the physical overtime per­iod, Singleton put his team see HEAT, page 13 



Notre Dame split a doubleheader with the Green Wave on Saturday. In the first game of the series, Tulane scored in every inning of the seven-inning contest against Irish pitchers Mike Passilla and Tom Howard on its way to an 11-3 Green Wave victory. Steve Skupien hit two home runs in a losing cause for the Irish. 
Skupien had to miss Sunday's game, however, because of a 
see SKUPIEN, page 13 

There was no hung jury for the Hoosier Lawyers which handed down a 19-point thrashing to Five Four and Under We Grow An Inch. Bow Derelicts beat Kimba and the Four Potatoes, 21-4. 
Lorretta and the Lindettes slammed the Slammers III 21­10, and Don't Forget to Smell the Cork laughed We Chuckle in the Face of Chaos off the court with its 21-4 victory. Team No. 25 defeated £*o/o$! 21-10. 
see WOMEN, page 11 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Having broken its eight­game losing streak last Wed­nesday and having won one of three games against a top pro­gram over the weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team will play six games this week to see if it has fully turned the corner. 
Mter a disastrous 0-8 opening homestand at Jake Kline Field, the Irish found comfort on the road last week. Notre Dame beat the University of Illinois-




Sean Cullinan of Tequila White Lightning goes up for a difficult shot against a defender from But Isn't Love More Important Than Sex on Bookstore Court yesterday. The Lightning emerged with a 21-11 victory. 





