
Less than zero 
Very cold today, with highs from 10 to 15, but wind chills dipping from 1 0 to 20 below zero. Bitterly cold tonight, lows 
J ACCENT: Alcohol is a drug 
IVIEWPOINT: Catcher in the Rye from 5 to 1 0 below. 


Associated Press Reagan administration's re­
quest for $36.2 million for the 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -anti-Sandinista rebels. President Daniel Ortega said "If the president of the Thursday the rejection of fur-United States . . . tells the ther aid for the Contra rebels North American people and the by the U.S. congress will international community that strengthen peace efforts, "but he has decided to cut off all kind it does not make the war dis-of military aid and financing to appear." the mercenary forces, and 
"President Reagan is begin a direct dialogue with the meeting with the National Se-government of Nicaragua on curity Council, studying ways security matters, and direct to continue the war against the Contras to cease fire, then, Nicaragua," Ortega said at a yes, we would be able to say news conference the day after we are on the road to peace," Congress turned down the he said. 
The leftist Sandinista gov­ernment generally refers to the U.S.-funded and -trained Con­tras, who have been waging a guerrilla campaign against the Sandinistas since late 1981, as "mercenaries." 
State-run radio on Thursday called on the rebels to lay down their arms and take advantage of political amnesty. 
The rebels, in a clandestine Radio Liberation broadcast, said: "The Nicaraguan Resis­tance will continue. The people's desire for liberty will not be stopped." The station 
BP, Cavanaugh collaborate to sponsor new talent show 
By DEANNA DOBROWOLSKI News Staff 
Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh Halls are getting their act together, in the form of a campus-wide talent show. 
The two halls are co­sponsoring a talent show in an­swer to a request from the Drug and Alcohol Education Office for new and unusual ac­tivities. The office asked hall councils to come up with activ­ities that do not revolve around drinking. 
The office gives $500 in fin­ancial assistance to each dorm for special activities, said Cavanaugh president Chris Lee, adding that Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh decided to combine their funds. Because the Drug and Alcohol Educa­tion Office is sponsoring the event, admission to the talent show will be free. 
Although the office is helping to support it, the show will be run entirely by students. The only stipulation is that the ac­tivity must provide only non­alcoholic beverages. The pro­duction will be organized mainly by the hall councils of Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh. 
Breen-Phillips president Kathleen Maglicic said the in­itial response to the idea has been good. Although the dorm was the butt of many jokes in the Keenan Revue, Maglicic said the talent show is "not meant to make fun of Keenan.'' 

Maglicic said the show will include two categories of acts: musical talent and comedy. 
Monetary prizes will be given away, Maglicic said. Two first prizes of $125, two second prizes of $75, and two third prizes of $50 will be awarded. 
The show will be held March 5 at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. Seats will be available on a first-come, first-served basis, and doors will remain open until all the seats are filled, Lee said. 

reportedly broadcasts from El Salvador and is jammed in Managua. 
Ortega lobbied hard to end the funding. His campaign in­cluded restoring many lost rights in the last five months, courting visiting Democratic Congress members, and recently completing a European trip that included an audience with Pope John Paul II. 
Military analysts speculated the Contras could not survive more than a year without the food and weaponry airdropped to isolated, rugged regions by CIA-operated planes. The Con­tras have been most active lately in central Chontales and northern Zelaya provinces. 
They say they have up to 18,000 men under arms, al­though the Sandinistas put their strength at 6,000. 
There was little reaction to the news from Washington on the dusty streets of Managua, where Nicaraguans waited in lines to buy gas or board scarce buses. 

Donnelly, Oxrider chosen to manage The Observer 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
Two Notre Dame students were appointed Thursday to the positions of managing editor and business manager of The Observer. 
Chris Donnelly and John Oxrider were chosen by the paper's editor-in-chief, Chris Murphy, as managing editor and business manager, respectively, for 1988-1989. 
Donnelly, a sophomore philosophy major, said he is excited about the upcoming year. "We've got a lot of new projects starting. The paper is really growing," he said. "It's a very good time, a time to build and keep im­proving on the paper." 
The Observer's new busi­ness manager, junior ac­counting major John Ox­rider, agrees. "I feel confident with the way our system is right now. We're going to keep it running smoothly," he said. "I'm really pleased with the op­portunity to work with The Observer.'' 
Donnelly, from South Bend, began working at The Observer as a freshman in 
see OBSERVER, page 4 


Friday, February 5, 1988 

page 2 The Observer 


Of Interest 
Student Art Forum will meet today at 5:15p.m. at the Snite Museum. Pizza will be served. All members and those interested are welcome. -The Observer 
Catholic Faith Series' first sessions are this Sunday and Tuesday from 7 to 8:30p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel, with Father John Dunne, Center for Social Con­cerns, talking about "Prayer." -The Observer 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education wil have its dedication reception at 4:30 p.m. today in 210 LaFor­tune. All are welcome. For information call David Dan­nison at 239-7970. -The Observer 
TheJugglerArt and Literary Magazine is nowaccepting submissions for the spring 1988 issue. Bring art or written work to the English office on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
The camJlUS billiards tournament has begun. Those who have stgned up should check the pool room for their opponent's name and make arrangements for the pool games. -The Observer 
Graduate students are invited to participate in an open discussion on how university structures and policies influence male-female relationships, perceptions of mar­riage and family, issues of sexuality, and other concerns that affect daily life and future plans of students. The meeting will be held Monday at 4:15p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns lounge. The discussion is organized by members of the University Task Force on Marriage, Family, and other Life Commitments. -The Observer 
Campus Bible Fellowship will hold their fourth annual Invite Night tonight at 6:30 in the Campus House, 19525 Pendle Rd., 277-8471. -The Observer 
A Taste of France will be held tonight at Le Cercle Francais' Creperie Restaurant from 7 to 9:30 in the Center for Social Concerns Coffee House. -The Observer 
Steve Rypkema, a representative from the Peace Corps, will be at the Center for Social Concerns tonight answering questions from 6:30 to 9:30. -The Observer 
Returning Holy Cross Associates from Chile will give reflections on their experience at the Spanish Liturgy on Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Farley Chapel. Father Don McNeill will be presiding. -The Observer 
The Sophomore Class will run a trip to Bendix Woods Saturday night. Buses leave the main circle at 7. For ticket information, visit the class office on the second floor of LaFortune today between 1 and 3 p.m.-The Ob­server 
The Junior Class Mass will be Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Zahm chapel. Father David Tyson will be the cele­brant. -The Observer 
Eating Awareness Training will hold its third session, "How to Deal with the Problem," on Monday from 
6:30 to 7:30p.m. in Room 300 at the University Counseling Center. This series is geared to individuals who feel they may have an eating problem or are worried about someone who may.-The Observer 
Basketball refs are needed at the Logan Center tonight from 6 to 8, Friday and Sunday afternoon from 12 to 3: 15, and Monday night from 4:45 to 6:45. Call Jon at 283-2006 or Sue Koffmann at 289-4831. -The Observer 

Design Editor .................. Joe Zadrozny Typists... . ................ Will Zamer Design Assistant ......... Stew Garcia ................................... Kathryn Harrigan News Editor..... . . Regis Coccia Ad Design . . . . . . ................. Molly Killen Copy Editor........ . . Tim O'Keefe Photographer ..................... Todd Tucker Sports Copy Editor......... Rick Rietbrock Accent Copy Editor .......... Mike Naugton Typesetters ......... ..... Becky Gunderman Viewpoint Copy Editors .... Brian Conway ...................................... Mark Ridgeway ND Day Editor .... .......... Janet Herold 
Tile Olleener (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday Cllcept durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile O!Mener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purc:has· ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writina Tile ~et", P.0. Bolt Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Oll.ener is a member of Tile .u.octaled Praa. All reproduction ri&hts are reserved. 
Cold and flu season: A problem everybody nose 
It starts as a tickle somewhere in the depths of your sinuses. You glance to the left. You glance to the right.Maybe you just imagined it. 
You know how it is.You go into class, prepared as always for a fun and exciting hour and fifteen minutes of intellectual stimulation. 
You sit down, intensely interested in what the professor has to say. Having read all the re­quired material and more for your own enrich­ment, you confidently open your notebook and click that ball point pen into the "on" position. Doctor Doom walks in, and a hush falls over the classroom. 
You try to ignore the tickle by concentrating on the fascinating lecture. But the tickle is turn­ing into a trickle. 
As you stare at the blackboard with unseeing eyes, a terrible dread begins to creep through your body. You cling to the hope that it is merely a false alarm, but as the old sinuses begin to churn and the pressure builds, you know your hope is but a pipe dream. 
The same word runs through your mind over and over: "KLEENEX . . . KLEENEX ... KLEENEX.'' Of course those soft, white, fluffy facial tissues are in your room right now doing I you absolutely, positively no good whatsoever. You have no choice but to sniff. Just once. That 
should do it. Twice. Accompanied by a brush of the hand. Alas! 'Tis not enough. The flood gates swing open; the dam breaks. If the people around you don't notice the sniffles, they'll certainly take note of the sweat you've just broken into. Great. Fantastic. 
Dread turns into panic as you frantically try every facial contortion in your repertoire to coax your honker into humility. Sniffles stretch into snorts ; students begin to turn around and frown at you with disdain. How dare you have the audacity to interrupt their intense concen­tration? 
In a last-ditch effort you tilt your head back, with the pretense of pondering some deep thought, praying that your last friend in the whole world won't desert you: gravity. But you're kidding yourself. No one admits friendship with a sniffler. Tilting your head is not enough, and you contemplate hanging by your heels from the ceiling. 
Ears popping, eyes watering, mind racing, and of course, nose running a marathon, you try to assume anonimity by slumping down in your seat and hiding behind your notebook. You sneak a peek at your watch and, horror of hor­rors, it is only ten minutes into the class! Oh, sorrow! Oh, misery! 
As you slouch in agony, shunned by all your peers, the professor requests that you leave the room and do something about your raucous probiscis. 
Humiliated, you make a nosedive for the door. Stumbling down the hall and into the bathroom, you grope for a wad of toilet paper. As you bury your nose in the white cloud, heavenly relief cascades over your entire being. 
An outcast, you find solace in your solitude, sniffling away. It wasn't your fault you were cursed with perpetual motion of the sinuses today. Then, a wicked thought pops into your head. You smile despite your post-nasal drip and laugh inwardly. This malady is bound to be contagious. 
It won't take long before the whole snooty class nose this is nothing to sneeze at. 

STUDENT/YOUTH FARE. EACH WAY BASED ON ROUND TRIP FROM CHICAGO. CALL FOR FREE STU· DENT TRAVEL CATALOG. 100'S OF OTHER DESTINATIONS AVAILABLE TO BUDGET TRAVELERS. 

ouncil Travczl 
29 E. Delaware • Chicago, IL 
1---1312) 951·0585--­

SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SO. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS 

Free Delivery to ND & SMC! 
COME IN AND BROWSE Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundays 9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon Friday, February 5, 1988 



The Observer page 3 

Stock exchanges urge self-reform 
Associated Press presidential task force that in­
vestigated the Oct. 19 stock 
WASHINGTON · The heads crash wants the Federal 
of four major stock and futures Reserve Board to coordinate 
exchanges said Thursday that financial market policy. 
Congress should give the "We must ... fully revisit 
markets a chance to reform the regulatory scheme," said 
themselves before imposing Kenneth Liebler, president of 
any new regulatory structure. the American Stock Exchange, 
Executives from the Ameri­who, of all the witnesses 
can Stock Exchange, National Thursday, called most strongly 
Association of Securities for change. 
Dealers, Chicago Mercantile However, he said Congress 
Exchange and Chicago Board should give the financial 
of Trade agreed that market of­markets three to six months to 
ficials and federal regulators agree on necessary measures. 
ought to do a better job of co­"If that fails, then Congress 
ordinating policy. ought to make clear that a 
single regulator, either the Fed 
But they asked the Senate or the SEC, ... should be cho­
Banking Committee to hold off sen," he said. 
before tinkering with the ap­The heads of the two futures 
portionment of power among exchanges, meanwhile, said 
federal agencies. flatly that Congress need do 
"Increased regulatory coor­little in response to the crash dination among markets is beyond prodding the ex­clearly needed and can be changes to work together. delivered within the existing ''The expertise to achieve regulatory framework," said better coordination among the Joseph Hardiman, president of markets lies within the the National Association of Se­markets themselves," said Leo curities Dealers, which runs Melamed, chairman of the ex­the over-the-counter stock ecutive committee of the market. Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 
The Securities and Exchange He recommended creation of a Commission regulates stock private-sector coordinating and stock options trading, the group with representatives Commodity Futures Trading from the exchanges and Commission oversees futures regulatory agencies. 
'trading, and the Federal Karsten Mahlmann, chair­Reserve Board sets margins -­man of the Chicago Board of or borrowing limits--on buying Trade, said formal SEC-CFTC stocks. cooperation procedures should 
The SEC is pushing to expand be adopted, but said he saw no its authority over futures need to make the Federal markets, and the CFTC is Reserve overseer of the two resisting that. Meanwhile, a other agencies. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is acceptin\1 applications for the following position: 
News Editor (2) Ad Design Manager Viewpoint Editor Ad Manager Sports Editor Production Manager Accent Editor Projects Manager Saint Mary's Editor Systems Manager Controller
Photo Editor Graphic Arts Manager 
Applications should include a two page personal statement and a brief resume. 
The deadline for applications is Tuesday, February 9. 
For further information contact Chris Murphy at The Observer (239-5303) 

The Observer I Todd Tucker 

Junior Mike Ramsden gets fitted for his band musical groups on campus has been invested into monogram sweater. Hours upon hours of practice in every monogram sweater earned. Marching Band, Concert Band or one of the many 
Lawyers divided on 'surrogate'" 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Efforts by legal and medical experts hoping to shape the future of surrogate motherhood on the heels of a New Jersey court's groundbreaking decision got bogged down quickly Thursday. 
Twenty-six participants in an American Bar Association con­ference aimed at drafting a model state law found they could not agree easily on an all­inclusive definition of sur­rogacy or on just what con­stitutes a "commercial" surrogate agreement. 
"We have two days to come up with something," said moderator Robert Arenstein, a New York City lawyer. "It's a big task." 
If the two-day conference can reach agreement, its proposal probably will be sent to the ABA's policy-making House of 
Copies 
sc 

kinko•s~ 

Delegates in August. If ap­
proved, the proposal would 
spark ABA lobbying efforts in 
state legislatures. 
Much of Thursday's discus­sion focused on the New Jersey Supreme Court ruling a day earlier in the widely publicized Baby M case. The state court said surrogate motherhood for money violates New Jersey's adoption laws. 
The decision ended a dra­matic legal fight between a wo­man artificially inseminated and the man whose sperm was used. They had signed a con­tract under which the woman would surrender all parental rights and would receive $10,000, but she later changed her mind. 
The New Jersey court ruled that the contract was illegal. 
"What we first have to decide is whether surrocacy should be prohibited under all circum­stances," said Gary Skoloff, the Livingston, N.J., lawyer who represents Baby M's fa­ther, William Stern, and his wife. 
Only one conference partici­pant, William Pierce of the Na­tional Committee for Adoption, supported a total ban on sur­rogate motherhood. 
Harold Cassidy, the Red Bank, N.J., lawyer represent­ing Baby M's surrogate mot­her, Mary Beth Whitehead­Gould, said surrogacy amounts to "forcing women through subtle inducements" to give up their children, an act that should only be a last resort. 
Dr. Michelle Harrison of Cambridge, Mass., explained that not all surrogacy cases are as clear cut as the Baby M case. Citing the transfer of an embryo from one woman to an­other, she asked, "Who is the mother? Is it the genetic or gestational mother?" 


---~--~----l 
Friday, February 5, 1988
page 4 The Observer 
Nuclear power death-s studied 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Na­tional' Institute of Health has quiety initiated a study of can­cer deaths among populations near nuclear power plants, ac­cording to a letter released Thursday by Sen. Edward Ken­nedy. 
The letter, which was sent to the Massachusetts Democrat -from Dr. James Wyngaarden, director of NIH, said that the studies were started as a result of "leukemia clusters around the Pilgrim power plant in Massachusetts and several plants in the United Kingdom." 
The findings, said Wyngaar­den, "have led us to initiate a large-scale evaluation of can­cer deaths occurring among persons living near the over 100 
reactors  operating  in  the  
United States."  
Don  Ralbovsky,  a  NIH  

spokesman, acknowledged that the letter was sent on Jan. 28, but said Wyngaarden was out of town and others who could comment were not reachable. "We'll just have to stand on the letter," he said. 
In the letter, Wyngaarden said the NIH also is collaborat­ing in a Swedish study of 40,000 patients who have received low 
Election 
continued from page 1 
Boards, or putting posters or flyers in the wrong places. 
The candidates will be run­ning on four-person tickets for class offices and three-person tickets f£or student body of­fices: student body president, vice president in charge of stu­dent affairs, and vice president in charge of_academic affairs. 
The students who win the elections will also become members of the Board of Governance and the Programming Board. 
To remain on the Board o( Governance or the Program­ming Board, students must not be on academic probation. The purpose of the Board of Gover­nance is to discuss the issues and policies and to give 
Observer 
continued from page 1 
the production department, as design assistant and later as design editor. He was promoted in 1987 to assistant production manager. In Sep­tember of that year, Donnelly became an assistant Viewpoint editor, while retaining his pro­duction department position. Donnelly will succeed current managing editor Mark Pankowski, a senior. 
Oxrider previously served as an accounts receivable clerk as a sophomore in The Observer's business department. The Highland, Calif., native was later made accounts payable clerk and assumed the duties of business manager in Janu­ary, following the departure of the previous business manager. 
Donnelly and Oxrider will as­sume their offices in late March, immediately after spring break. 
doses of iodine-131 for medical diagnostic reasons. Iodine-131 is described as "one of the major radioactive isotopes emitted during nuclear power plant operations and from nu­clear weapons testing." 
"We have also evaluated descriptive mortality data re­garding possible cancer risks in the general population iiving downwind of the Nevada nu­clear test site," the letter said. ''While many reported associa­tions are unsupported by these data, a small increase in leukemia in southwest Utah cannot be ruled out at this time." 
A site in Nevada has been used for years for underground nuclear weapons testing. 
.Wyngaarden said results are expected within a year from both the Swedish study and the Utah study. 
The letter said that the NIH also has "confirmed that leukemia was increased above expectations" among military personnel who participated in at least one nuclear weapon test series. 
Wyngaarden said that the most serious impact on health of the Three Mile Island '1U­clear plant "is mental stress to those living near the plant." 
opinions and recommendations to Saint Mary's. Mandatory meetings are held once a week. Discussions include such things as the newly changed li­brary hours . and extended parietals. 
The Programming ' Board deals with the social aspects of Saint Mary's. They plan tradi­tional events, think of new ideas for events, organize weekend movies, help classes and dorms arrange their dances, and make sure these dates don't overlap. 
Running for sophomore class officers on a ticket are : Molly Bringardner, Tara Kearney, Kate Matuzak, and Kerri Gus­tufson; Natasha Doyle, Jackie Brody, Maria Marczak, and Kristen Izydor; President, Vice-president, Secretary, and Treasurer. Other students run­ning are: Maggie Belin, Kathy. O'Dwyer, Kelli Phelan, Kerry 

O'Shaugnessy can this be done with a quote from a Greek tragedy in the background. 
CJ VALENTINE'S DAY ("') 1 BoXER-GRAMs! v 
Perfect for sweethearts, roommates, friends 

Anne Weber, and Karin Young. 
Running for junior class of­fices on a ticket are: Jill Terry, Kristin Anderson, Chrissy Haj­duch, and Coleen Keefe; Lisa Catenacci, Tara Melichar, Carol Berkouski, and Deirdre Milon; Rachael Jarosh, Kathy Sullivan, Patricia Johnson, and Chris Rockeman; Liz Hassel, Sara Mantei, Melanie Taghon and Gina Mantei. 
The only students on a ticket for senior class officers are Rose Pietrzak, Rozel Gat­maitan, Maria Koch, and Lisa Emlong, running for president, vice president, secretary, and treasurer. 
The following will be compet­ing for positions on the student body oifices: Ann Reilly, Julie Marozas, and Kelly Connery; and Annie Buch, Kim Sartori, and Carol Mahony. 




Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
ND '61

ironwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
1725 NOI\TII IKONWOOD DK. 50Ul11 flt:ND. IN 'HiG."'\5 

Let your sweetheart love expressed through 
V~ll~n,fin-~ C/BSSifiedS Or l"'it::nl!tll 
I be accepted from 1Oam to 3pm . The Observer is located 
in room 314 LaFortune or call239-7471 for 
further information. 

---------~------~---------~ -----­
Friday, February 5, 1988 
The Observer page 5 
0 e'  \.Jve  Theodore's  
:  ;:j:) rPt(~  Saturday, February 6  
:  Sponsored by SUB and Theodore's  10:00 p.m.  •  

~ .........~ .......................................................•..... 

Dole, Bush very close in race, says Iowa poll 
Associated Press Dukakis and 15 percent for Sen. 
Paul Simon of Illinois. 
WASHINGTON -A new Iowa Trailing were Hart with 10 poll suggested on Thursday percent, Jackson 9 percent, that three Democrats are in a former Arizona Gov. Bruce tight race and George Bush is Babbitt 6 percent, and Sen. Al­closer to Bob Dole than some bert Gore of Tennessee 1 per-other polls have indicated. cent 
A second poll said Bush and Twenty-five percent were un-Massachusetts Gov. Michael decided, and there was a 5.5 Dukakis still hold strong leads percent margin of sampling in New Hampshire, which has error--indicating the race is its first-in-the-nation primary still far from decided. on Feb. 16. The Iowa presiden-On the Republican side, Dole tial caucuses are Monday. Jed Bush 28 percent to 23 per-' 

----cent, just within the poll's mar­gin of error and closer than other polls have shown the two men. 
In still another poll, this one suggesting election-year voter dissatisfaction, nearly half the respondents said they wished someone else were in the race­-though more than half of those couldn't come up with the name of someone they would prefer to the 13 major candidates. 
That poll, sponsored by USA today and CNN, said Bush is the top choice of Republican re­spondents nationwide--43 per­cent to 24 percent over Dole-­while the Democrats were widely split, with the most sup­port for former Colorado Sen. Gary Hart and Jesse Jackson, with 17 percent and 16 percent respectively. 
In the new results: 
-A poll of likely Democratic Iowa caucus-goers, conducted for Boston's WNEV-TV by Cambridge Reports, had 18 percent saying they supp~rt Rep. Richard Gephardt of ~Is­souri, 16 percent backmg 
Introducing Tammy Lupa to 
NEW RENDITIONS 

HAIR & TANNING·SALO 
1621 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-5007 
Formerly of Hair Crafters of St. Mary's 
I ------------------------­
I 
L--------------------------1 
-.\.  10°/o off on  
I 1  ()\)~ ()~  foil highlighting  I 1  
I  c;  with coupon  I  

. 
, s 

a \rl,icvt~o ,,
ttL-tO yti0't · 011 (\)'t 0'l •'t (\!(;t't 
CJ -:-lb\, \J 

Former television evangelist Pat Robertson was third with 17 percent, followed by Rep. Jack Kemp of New York with 8 percent, former Delaware Gov. Pete du Pont 4 percent and former Secretary of State Alexander Haig 1 percent. Nineteen percent were un­decided. 
The poll, of 600 Democrats and Republicans, was con­ducted from Jan. 29 through Feb. 2 by telephone. 
-A poll conducted for WMUR­TV in Manchester, N.H., by David Moore, a University of New Hampshire political scien­tist, indicated that Dukakis had support from 47 percent of Democratic voters in that state, up from 37 percent in December. Next came Simon with 15 percent, Hart 11 per­cent, Jackson 6 percent, and Babbitt, Gephardt and Gore with 4 each. 
.....·~,.,·• 

Grinning at grooming  The Observer I Todd Tucker  
Sophomore Chip Malloy grins, perhaps thinking of  his hair cut at University Hair Stylists, in the basement  
how suave and debonair he will look after he gets  of LaFortune.  

Bush, Dole engage in word war 
.9lttention !J{ptre 'lJame Community: 
9'"ou are coraiaf{y invitea to attena 
tlie dedication of tlie 
'University of 9{ptre Vame 
Office of.9l{cofio{ and Vrug T-ducation 
:friday, :February 5, 1988, at 4:30p.m. 
210 La:Fortune Center 
witfi reception immu{iatefy jo{[owing, at 'l'fieotfore's 'Davit£ 'Dannison, 'Director 
Dole, the Republican leader of the Senate, handed the vice president a copy of a statement by Bush's Iowa chairman. 
"I wanted the vice president to tell me man-to-man that he had authorized it," Dole said. "He said he had authorized it but hadn't read it. So I handed him a copy.'' 
Bush, the president of the Senate, was presiding during a procedural vote on aid to the Nicaraguan Contras. 
Bush and Dole both broke off campaigning four days before Iowa's crucial caucuses to return to Washington where Senate Republicans hoped to breathe life back into President Reagan's Contra aid proposal. 
"I know a Bush set-up when 
I see it, and this is Bush-league 
operations, trying to impugn 
my integrity," Dole said. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a hfesov•ng Red Cross CPR.course.
+Ame~ican Red Cross 

Associated Press 
Republican Bob Dole con­fronted chief opponent George Bush on Thursday, accusing the vice president of a cam­paign designed "to impugn my integrity" and demanding to know if Bush authorized an aide's harsh statement. 
The two met face to face on the Senate floor in a moment orchestrated by Dole following escalating tensions between their two presidential cam­paigns. 
Enjoying the GOP brawl, Democrat Bruce Babbitt ridiculed Dole from afar for leaving his vision of the future "locked in a blind trust." 


Locked in their own tight race in Iowa, the Democratic presidential candidates crowed 
over  Wednesday"s  narrow  
House  defeat  of  aid  to  the  
Nicaraguan rebels.  

Republican candidate Pat Robertson looked to score a vic­tory in Hawaii's rescheduled GOP caucuses and straw vote Thursday night. The Bush and Dole campaigns acknowledged that Robertson --who nearly doubled GOP membership in that state since December -­had the numbers to win. 

-

.....---------­
page 6 The ObservE!r Friday, February 5, 1988 
Police disperse Poles·. during riot in protest over price increases 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland -Police swinging clubs dispersed Solidarity supporters who protested price increases after a Mass on.Thursday, opposition sources said. Lech Walesa was at the church in Gdansk, but did not join the protest. 
"It was an unusually brutal action;" Joanna Wojciechowicz said. "Police beat people with clubs unusually severely ... It was a nightmare." 
Wojci~chowicz was a witness 
outside St. Brygida's Roman Catholic Church in the the Bal­tic port city, Walesa's hometown and birthplace of the now-outlawed free trade union movement. She said by tele­phone that police detained at least 10 people. 
Father Henryk Jankowski of St. Brygida's, one of Walesa's close advisers, said he would file a complaint about the police action. 
Thursday's protest was the second in Gdansk since the weekend, when the govern­ment announced price in­creases of 40 to 200 percent for most basic foods, fuel, alcohol, cigarettes, transportation and services. They are the steepest price hikes since 1982, when the country was under martial law. 
Police did not intervene Thursday when several thousand Solidarity supporters marched through Gdansk and chanted anti-government slogans outside the local Com­munist Party headquarters. 

Indianapolis Education Board accepts standardization of competency testing 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -An esti­mated 31,270 pupils in five grades will have to take remedial work this summer after falling below a new stan­dard on statewide competency tests, according to Department of Education figures released Thursday. 
The State Board of Education approved on Thursday the cut­off scores that pupils in grades 1, 2, 3, 6 and 8 will have to exceed to avoid going through summer remedial work. 
The department also es­timates that 11,877 children could be retained in their pre­vious grade after failing to show enough improvement after remediation. 
Under the 1987 education reform law, children in the five grades, plus grades 9 and 11, will participate in the Indiana Statewide Testing for Educa­tional Progress program by taking exams in mathematics 
Launch of Star Wars satellite is postponed 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­The launch of a "Star Wars" research satellite carrying 15 simulated Soviet nuclear mis­siles was postponed Thursday because of a potential problem with the Delta rocket, NASA said. 
The launch was not immedi­
ately ,rescheduled. 
Instruments indicated trou­
ble with an oxygen vent on the 
Delta's second stage with five 
minutes to go in the countdown, 
the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration said. 
"It has not been determined 

if it is a vehicle or a ground 
system problem," NASA 
spokesman Hugh Harris said. 
The mission calls for the 

Delta's second stage to go into 
orbit and release 15 payloads. 
Four have rocket motors that 

will fire to simulate a Soviet 
missile rising from a launch 
pad; the 11 others will play the 
roles of missiles coasting 
through space before releasing 
their multiple warheads, offi­
cials said. 
Once released, lasers, radars and other devices on the second stage and at ground stations are to track the objects while they maneuver through space for 12 hours. 
and English in March. Students remains below the same stand­in the two higher grades will ards on the second test, he or not face remedial work. she can be retained in the grade 
Pupils who score below both just completed. the state standard and the 16th The new law caps at 16 per­national percentile on the test cent the total number of pupilswill go through remediation that could be put into remedial and retesting. If a child courses. 
Security Beat 
Tuesday, Feb. 3 
10:20 p.m. A Howard Hall resident reported the theft of a pair of high top sneakers from outside her doorway sometime between 7:30 and 9 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $65. 
5:30 p.m. An off-campus student reported losing her I.D. case and contents in LaFortune Student Center sometime between 12 noon and I p.m. Her loss is estimated at $200. 
4:05 p.m. A Holy Cross Hall resident reported that he lost his green ID case and contents petween LaFortune apd Washington Hall between 9 and I 0 a.m. 
4:10p.m. An abandoned motorcycle found in the AB 16 Lot was towed off of University property. 
Wednesday, Feb. 4 
9:32 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a minor two vehicle accident in the reserve lot behind the CCE. No one was injured, and damage was minimal. 
8:46 a.m. Security went to the consruction site by the Pasquerillas to assist a worker who had suffered an apparent stroke. The victim was transported to Michiana Community Hospital. 
3:25 a.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported that $26 in cash was stolen from his room sometime between 8:15 p.m. and I :30 a.m. on Jan. 26. 
Monday, Feb. 2 
10:20 p.m. A University employee reported that his car was struck while parked in the B I Lot. 
I0:45 p.m. A Mishawaka resident reported a hit and run accident to his vehicle while it was parked in the C2 lot for the Notre Dame vs. Maryland basketball game. Damage is estimated at $200. 
6:43 p.m. A University employee reported vandalism to his vehicle while it was parked in the Dl Lot sometime between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. Damage is estimated at $200. 
5 p.m. A freshman was found to have illegally registered his vehicle under another student's name. 


O
This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound® to the beach, the mountains or your hometown. 

...,;;,..___,;;..... For $49.50 each way, you and your friends will have a great GO GR~~~HOUND
time when you ~ wJ 
Each way based on round-trip purchase. 
go Greyhound. And leave the driving to us~ 
Greyhounq • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present a valid college student I. D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, ~nc., TraiJu"'}'s Lines and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Fare is each way per person based on round-trip purchase. Offer effecuve 2/15/88 through 4/25/88. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. Greyhound also offers an unlimited mileage fare for $59.00 each way. 
Some restrictions apply. © 1988 Greyhound Lines, Inc. . 
Viewpoint 
Friday, February 5, 1988

page 7 
A new attitude toward drugs 
"Alcohol is a drug." . 
Most of us have heard this fact before, but who takes It seriously? 
Apparently the administration does. 
Today's dedication of the new Office of Alcohol and Drug Education marks another step in the administration's con­tinuing effort to deal with the problem of alcoh~l abu.se in our community. The administration has committed Itself to educating students and raising awareness of the dangers of alcohol misuse through policies, task forces and educa­tional programs. . . 
But unless student attitudes change, this effort Will go to waste. 
In an environment where alcohol is associated with fun times and release from the demands of school, it is difficult to treat alcohol for what it is --a potentially addictive drug. We need to learn to respect it as such. 
The cost of alcohol abuse is staggering. Nationally, it has been responsible for 23,000 highway deaths, 3,000 drownings and 9,000 suicides within one yea~. Alcohol­related highway deaths are the number one killer of 15­to 24-year-olds. At Notre Dame, two tragic alcohol-related deaths have made these statistics a grim reality. 
Another tragedy of which most of us are not aware con­tinues every day: Based on national estimates, we can project that 700 Notre Dame students are in the primary to advanced stages of alcoholism. 
In light of this, we cannot afford to continue treating alcohol use casually. Student attitudes which not only per­mit, but encourage, drinking to excess must be changed. We must work to recognize alcohol abuse in ourselves and others and take steps to deal with it. 
Whether we like it or not, the drinking habits which we form in college will affect us for the rest of our lives. It's time we started using this drug responsibly. 
The administration has shown that it takes the problem of alcohol misuse seriously; it is time for the students of Notre Dame to follow that lead. 
-The Observer 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, sent the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556. 
Doonesbu 
OH, Y/311W THEN
Gt~UAL, 00 PRYfoKJT? 
lla.L., NO. 
SHOW M/3! HIT
YOU R&llli.-Y &X· Y()()'RE NOT 
I a'OUWN'T 
THc fJUJ< ANI? 
lA/HAT?
Pf3CT WJTl3llS 7lJ a.J&OF7H~ 
SAY I'M... 
GIV/3M/3 -AN/l66/?fi551VE APf'tASEI;f!iNT 
t /J{)y lf.fTD 5lJCH HOUYWOOI? 
/ FIFTY.'~ 
: GEO·POUTICAL. FRUITCAKeS, / ? AR£ YOU?
-----,_ 
,cC'""" 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rellect the policies of the admimstrat1on of 811her 1nstitution. The News is reponed as accurately and objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the op1mon of the majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column presentlhe views of their authors. Column space os ava1lable to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
P.O. Box Q 
Fanatacism has no use in debate 
Dear Editor: 

Mr. Hahn, in his Feb. 1 column, "Abortion issue needs rethinking," states that he wants "opinion forming thought" on the volatile topic of abor­tion. So do most people, but for this to occur hyperbole, incomplete analysis and callousness must be avoided. Mr. Hahn states that we are encountering "an atrocity comparable to tne Nazi holocaust." Over six million Jews died in Hitler's Germany. To equate any number of abortions with this ultimate expression of hate and bigotry is ridiculous. Remember, human beings die, not potential human beings. Fur­thermore, to infer a parallel between a Nazi and an abortionist is hypocritical and cruel. 
Mr. Hahn cited the decision of some doctors to selectively abort fetuses and commented--"How low has the medical profession sunk this time?" I will grant that this is a potentially unethical prac­tice, but if Mr. Hahn had explored the issue deeper he would have learned that in many instances the survival of any of the fetuses depends on the aborting of the others. 
Another difficulty with his article was the lack of discussion about a very im­portant person in any birth--the mother. Any analysis of this issue must involve the rights of women, to omit them evidences a sexist attitude which too often prevails on the Right to Life side. 
In any discussion of a controversial issue it is important to avoid fanatacism, but it is particularly vital on the abortion question. If the U.S. is to reach a concensus on this pressing issue we must do so after examing and respecting all sides with objectivity and compassion. 
Craig Gundersen Grace Hall February 3, 1988 
precipitated the legalization of abor­tion, was almost entirely overlooked (with the exception of a short and am­biguous pro-life quotation). I fail to un­derstand why Friday's or Monday's edition could not have featured at least a brief report on the NMMC Right to Life rally in the capital. Perhaps a few comments from spokesmen of both 
R.T.L. and N.O.W. (National Organiza­tion of Women) could have been printed. Each group has something to say, but we read nothing from either side. · 
On Jan. 22, 1973, the Supreme Court sparked a huge controversy that has become progressively more dynamic and intense. On Jan. 22, 1988, I would have enjoyed reading in our school newspaper a little bit about this monumentally important issue. I would have been interested to read about how different people are reacting to one of the most widely disputed decisions in the history of Constitutional interpreta­tion. 
Now, there lies a profound irony in all this. Humanity is subverted; human beings are expendable to the tune of about 1.5 million lives per year in this country. Simultaneously, however, animals are being elevated to the status of humanity. Last Friday, we read about some gallant cat that was trapped in the cargo hold of an aeroplane, journeyed several thousand miles, and was later rescued. "I love her so much," said the feline's joyfully sobbing owner of her pet, as the cat "nibbled on tuna, steak, and caviar." This animal was even "toasted with champagne." That's news? That's trivial. Think of how many rats and ver­min have seen the same kind of mileage in the storage compartments of ships and choo-choo trains. And they only get to eat moldy trash and industrial waste. No, it's not news, but it got the print. The newsworthy issue dido 't. 
Mark Napierkowski Carroll Hall January 27, 1988 

Roe anniversary lacked coverage 
Dear Editor: 

In reading the Jan. 22 Observer, I was dismayed at reading not about human interest, but about animal interest. The anniversary of the Roe vs. Wade Su­preme Court decision, which 
Garry Trudeau 
Correction 

The Observer wishes to correct an error in yesterday's column "Irish hockey team beginning to gel." The proper spelling of the coach's name is Ric Schafer. 
L-------------------------~ 
Quote of the Day 
"The highest patriotism is not a blind acceptance of official policy, but a love of one's country deep enough 
to  call  her  to  a  higher  
standard."  
George  McGovern  

Editorial Board  Operations Board  
Editor-in-Chief...  .  ....... Kevin Becker  Bus;ness Manager ............................. John Oxrlder  
Managing Editor . ..  Marl< Pankowski  Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen  
News Editor ..  . Chris Bednarski  Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clarl<  
News Editor . . . . . . .  ............... Jim Ailey  Production Manager ................... .. Melissa Warnke  
Viewpoint Editor..... .  ............ Chris Murphy  Projects Manager.........................Marl< Mclaughlin  
Sports Editor  ........ Dennis Corngan  Systems Manager ........... . . . . ......... Shawn Sexton  
Accent Editor.  Michael Naughton  Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele  
Saint Mary's Editor  Sandy Cerimele  Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura St!lflton  
Photo Editor  ... . .  .Jim Carroll  

~----·-­
Ace
Friday, February 5, 1988 
A Catcher in the Rye 
prince of darkenss as an agent of evil with a specific identity; yet in the Church's rite of Bap­tism, the exorcisms are milder than they used to be. The lie that the devil has spread in the 20th century America, so they say, is that he doesn't really exist. 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

Undergoing hypnotism as part of his therapy, the boy remembered attending a party where a naked woman did an erotic dance with a chicken. The mother's question was: were the weird events part of the worship carried on by a Satanic cult? 
Are witches and warlocks now holding their covens in the Windy City? It wouldn't be surprising to hear that black magic is being carried on as a pubilcity gimmick, or a cult favored by thrill-seekers, or as a game teenagers are playing to shock their parents. 
Does this mean that the devil is alive and well and working in Skokie? Based on the evidence I've heard, OI'Nick isn't going to get any testimonials as a activist from me. Does Beel­zebub exist as a personal enemy of God, out to ruin souls? On the question of Beel­zebub's existance, I'm an ag­nostic. The Gospels mention Beelzebub; is this purely myt­hological language, or a per­sonification of the spirit of evil? I'm open-minded, like a liberal Christian. 
The catholic Church ack­nowledges the existence of the 
I've never seen proof of the diabolism in the world; whether I see the devil or not, I'm sus­picious that he's around; not, however, because a naked wo­man does a dance with a chicken. But why should the devil come around, when he's got well-intentioned Christians to do his work for him? Why would God need archenemies who want to rival His authority? God must have His hands full, turning the crooked lines His friends draw into straight writing. 
Why bring this up? Because Notre Dame is a campus of exceptionally fine young people. Every student here has his or her special kind of truth and beauty, which awaits fulfill­ment. Each of us is partially fulfilled in the fulfillment of the others; none of us is an island. Each one is a child of the adoring Father, related as a sibling to the only-begotten Son. 
Does anyone feel short­changed when compared with others, as though he or she were lacking a necessary ad­vantage? That could be a stum­bling block, but it shouldn't terminally defeat us. Didn't Christ promise: "My grace is sufficient for thee?" What, then, could defeat us, to leave us losers? Nothing can cheat us of our fulfillment, if we resist believing the enticing lies. 
Adam and Eve believed an enticing lie. 01' Snake-hips in the garden, promised them: "You shall be as God." Wanting to be godlike, they brought misery on themselves. Their bad luck should be a warning to us: "Neep an eye on those angels of light, flattering you with what you most want to hear. A number of those angels of light may be in the devil's camp, without even knowing it." 
I offer you a warning: season everything you read or hear-­including this column--with a grain of salt. Season any gospel of liberation that is preached to you--no matter how Christian it sounds--with a grain of salt. Religion used to represent a body of doctrine that the faithful had agreed to agree on; but that was before the silly seasons started. 
Do the preachers seem in love with love? "By their fruits, you shall know them," said the Lord. The tree of love can bear bitter fruit. 
Is the 20th century the cruel­lest of all centuries? The cream of the crop of two generations perished in the great world wars, and every decade produces a fresh genocide. 
Now, in the Eighties, when America has no war of its own to fight, what new headcounts of death are we keeping, and what are the battlecries that ease us towards the cults of death? The young and the wise need to be wise in their own defense. 
Like Holden caufield, I dream of being a catcher in the rye, saving the children playing in a field of rye from falling over the edge of a cliff. His vision of himself as a catcher in the rye means that he wants to save them from their loss of innocence 
Dennis Tillman is a black student I like and admire very much. Tuesday, reading his Observer column, I had ques­tions to ask him as a catcher in the rye. He acknowledges the vicious circle of the Admissions Office recruiting black students to a Notre Dame where they will feel out of place. 
I've been aware for years of this kind of problem. Nearly 20 years ago, a number of stu­dents came here from the black neighborhoods of Chicago. Among them was Greg, an angry young man, who made no bones about his dislike for Notre Dame. 
The recruiters, he said, came to his ghetto, asking: "How would you like to be a Notre Dame freshman?" "''d never heard of Notre Dame," Greg said. "But they brought me here to see the place, for a weekend of partying. I decided: why not go, to get away from the streets for a year? When I came, I didn't see no more partying. It was just a white boys' school, and it wasn't for me." 
Greg put up with the place 
for one semester. His class­
mate Chris, winner of the first 
Martin Luther King scholarship, 
was as charming as Greg as 
surly. He was gifted, sensitive, 
and highly intelligent; I found 
out a lot about him, because 
he invited me to read his jour­
nal. He had been accepted at Harvard; but he came to Notre 
Dame because his brother, an 
ND graduate in love with the 
place, asked him to. 
By October, Chris had stopped going to classes. When he came back after Christmas, he had no grade point average because he hadn't taken any finals. His indifference to the place had nothing to do with the color of his skin; he couldn't have had more friends if he had won the Heisman trophy. But he hated the drab­ness of life in the dorms, and he kept eating his heart out because he wasn't at Harvard. 
My questions to Dennis are: why would blacks want to at­tend Notre Dame if other blacks told them they should stay away? How, in conscience, could I encourage them to en­roll, if I suspected that they might be unhappy here? 
Do other prestigious schools have a much larger percentage of blacks in attendance, and a larger number of black teach­ers on the faculty? 
None of these questions change the truth or forceful­ness of what Dennis wrote; but after twenty years, I want him to say more than that blacks have felt uncomfortable on campus. 
If we treat the blacks here now as part of the family, maybe their children and their children's children will be in love with the place. 
As Jesse Jackson says of himself, Notre Dame isn't per­fect, but God hasn't finished with it yet. May the devil and his angels of light stay away from out door, but may the Dennis Tillmans always bear witness. 

~ clock-radio, tuned to a 1" l:hicago station, awoke me this morning: the radio-host was reading from Mike Royko's column in the Chicago Tribune. Royko quoted from a letter written by a mother about her teenager, who has been acting strangely. 

The Observei1Jim Brake Dave Dannison, director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education which is being dedicated today. 
He said the office would be targeted in these six basic areas: 1)getting information to as many people as possible so that they might be able to see alcohol as a problem or poten­tial problem in their lives. 2)having information sessions and materials in dorms. 3)helping people do research on alcohol for papers and per­sonal reference. 4)meeting with rectors to help support them through in­stances where alcohol might be an issue. 5)promoting social activities which condone responsible or non-drinking activities. 
6)providing a setting where students concerned about alco­hol and drugs in thier lives or the lives of others can come and air their concerns. 
Sally Coleman, alcohol coun­selor at the University Counsel­ing Center is quite exicited about the office: "It's an oppor­tunity to start learning about the people we want to be in society and how chemicals do or do not fit into those roles." 
This is the fifth and final story in a series of articles on alcohol education at Notre Dame. 

Alcohol and leadership 
TAMRYN ETTEN accent writer 

}\ lcohol "education"--that nsounds like another subtle way for the University to tell you to stop drinking. Right? 
Wrong. 
"AlCohol education is to help you know more generally about alcohol and its role for you as a leader," said Dave Dannison, Director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education af Notre Dame which is having its dedication ceremony at 4:30 this afternoon. 
"We're training leaders here at Notre Dame, "he said. "Ones who should be able to conquer problems, and alcohol is as large a single social problem as any other in society." 
"If you don't know about al­cohol, you don't know about the area over which you'll have to make decisions." 
Alcohol leads 10 percent of its users to addiction, while 70 to 80 percent of the American population chooses to drink. Recent evidence has shown that this addiction can be hereditary. 
Children of alcoholics, as well as undergoing emotional problems because of their par­ents addictions, are four times as likely to develop an alcohol problem then their peers. A general genetic influence (for instance through siblings or grandparents) is identifiable in 35 to 40 percent of alcohol abusers, both men and wo­men. 
These statics imply that al­coholism is a disease--a status that the American Medical As­sociation gave it 22 years ago. Treating alcoholism as a dis­ease is much different than treating it as a lack of wil­lpower on the addicts part. 
"Will power is a bankrupt ideal in terms of alcohol. A lot of alcoholics think they can stop drinking if they have enough will power," said Dan­nison. "Will power may get them through tomorrow, but it won't get them through 1993." 
The "cure" is just as illusive as the disease. 
This is something that is cru­cial for the alcohol educator to teach. "If you give them good information," said Barbara Naser, executive director of the South Bend Alcoholism Coun­cil, "then they are able to watch their behavior closely" to see if they are developing any 
symptoms of alcohol depen­
dence. 
"It's ·like cancer. People are learning earlier and earlier what to look for." 
Naser said alcohol without 

education is like giving a 
loaded gun to a child and not 
telling him about the dangers 
involved with it. 
She said that in the South Bend community, they are starting to educate children as early as grade school. A recent ·survey taken by the National Council on Alcoholism showed that only 42 percent of the na­tion's fourth graders were aware that alcohol was an a drug (and therefore addictive) while 81 percent considered marijuana one. 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at Notre Dame, will not be educating fourth graders, but college students -­mostly people who have been exposed to just as little infor­mation concerning the drug. 
"The main goal (of the office) will be to provide a resource center to help students access information to loosen the grip of alcohol in a person's life," said Dannison. 
.... 


nt page 8-9 
-. _,-·-r .....~. --, r.r,­
iMusf.-See movies 
•
DR. STRANGELOVE 

FrVSat Engineering Auditorium 8 and I 0 p.m. 
Stanley Kubrick's award-winning satire stars Peter Sellers and George C. Scott. Subtitled "How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb," It deals with the President of the United States and the Premier of the U.S.S.R. uniting in an unique effort to save the world. 
THE MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH Fri Annenberg Auditorium 7:30p.m. 
David Bowie stars as an alien with the mission of finding water on the Earth for his own planet. Based on Walter Trevis' acclaimed fantasy novel, this film combines captivating science fiction with a commentary on contemporary society. 
BLADE RUNNER Mon Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. 
Presenting a nightmarish and bleak future Los Angeles, box-office draw Harisson t"ord plays the role of a tough police detective who must track down evil robots who bear an eerie resemblence to humans. 
MOONSTRUCK Town and Country Cinema 
Romance, passion, and jealousy find new life in an Italian­
American familly from Brooklyn. Loretta (Cher) and Ronny 
(Nicolas Cage) star as lovers who find the wondrous magic of a 
moonlit night. The whole family feels the power of the moon as 
they try to work out their problems as well as Loretta's. 
PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES University Park West Cinema 
Steve Martin Is a mild mannered businessman trying to get home for the holidays. John Candy is the loudmouthed salesman he can't seem to avoid. The two blunder their way from one mess into another as they try to make their way cross country. 
THREE MEN AND A BABY Town and Country Cinema 
Tom Selleck, Ted Danson and Steve Guttenburg are three fast­living bachelors who share an enormous New York apartment and an aversion to responsibilities and commitments of every kind. When a child fathered by Dansen is left on their doorstep, their lifestyles are forced to undergo dramatic change. Even as they face epic struggles with the mysteries of diapering and feeding a child, they become caught up in a drug smuggling scheme and must deal with dangerous gansters and suspicious police. 
Local Theater Guide 
0000000000000000000 

TOWN AND COUNTRY READY Ill CINEMAS 
2340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090
420 E. Main St. 
Niles, Michigan "SHE'S HAVING A BABY" 683-1112 
"THREE MEN AND A BABY" "MOONSTRUCK" 
"THE SERPENT AND THE 
RAINBOW" 
"RAW" 


SCOTTSDALE CINEMAS 
"OVERBOARD" "THREE MEN AND A BABY" 
I 153 Scottsdale Mall 291-4583 
"THE COUCH TRIP" "FATAL ATTRACTION" FORUM CINEMAS 
100 CENTER CINEMA 
North Village Mall 277-1522 
I 00 Center St. 259-0414 
"MISSING IN ACTION" 
. 
"RAW" "THROW MOMMA OFF THE "FOR KEEPS" TRAIN""BROADCAST NEWS" "DIRTY DANCING" 

UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
University Park Mall 277-0441 
"PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES" "GOOD MORNING VIETNAM" "EMPIRE OF THE SUN" 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
6424 Grape Rd 277-7336 
"THE SERPENT AND THE RAIN BOW" "RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD II" 
"BAR FLY" "THE COUCH TRIP" "JULIA. JULIA" "BATTERIES NOT INCLUDED" "RAW" "FATAL ATTRACTION" 


Violinist Sergiu Luca will be per­The Notre Dame Hockey team SACRED HEART SUNDAY MASS forming with the South Bend takes on Air Force tonight and SCHEDULE Symphony under the direction of tomorrow at 7:30 in the JACC. guest conductor Tsung Yeh Sat­5 p.m. (Saturday Vigil) urday night at 8: 15. The perfor­Fr. D~vid Tyson mance will be held in the Morris At 2:00 p.m. on Saturday the 9 a.m. Fr. Joseph Walter Civic Auditorium. Call 232-6343 World Wrestling Federation 10:30 a.m. Fr. John Lahey for ticket information. Superstars of Wrestliny will be 12: 15 p.m. Fr. David Tyson 
competing at the JACC. Tickets 7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady "Retrospect to Raymond Loewy" can be purchased at the ath­Chapel an exhibit presented by the letic facility for $9 and $12. Studebaker National Museum covers the career ofthe industrial WEEKDAY MAIN CHURCH designer. He is perhaps best SCHEDULE
The Snite Museum of Art willknown for creating the Grey­
be providing a free guided tour
hound Scenicruiser and the "Bul­I I :30 a.m. Monday thr 
at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday. It
let Nose" Studebaker automo­Friday
begins at the main museum
bile. Call 284-9714 for more 5:15p.m. Monday thr Friday
entrance. Please call 239-5466
information. 
for more information. 
Don't let the winter weather stop SACRED HEART CONFESSION you from enjoying an exciting SCHEDULE day at the zoo. The Potawatomi The Saint Mary's College Guest Zoo is open from 10:00 a.m. to Artist Recital with Patricia Ber­
I I: 15 a.m. Monday thr Satur­
5:00p.m. daily and is located in lin, a mezz-soprano, will begin day the scenic Potawatomi Park at at 3:00 p.m. on Sunday. It will. 5 p.m. Monday thr Friday 
500 S. Greenlawn. 

7 p.m. Monday thr Thursday
be held in the Little Theatre. 
jVideo Review 
"No Way Out" (1987) is a steamy murder mystery pitting Kevin Costner's handsome Navy Lieutenant against Gene Hackman's sleazy Secretary of Defense in a race against the clock to uncover a spy in the Defense Department. The search for the spy is in actual­ity a smoke screen to cover up Hackman's accidental killing of his mistress (Sean Young) who, coincidentally, was Costner's lover. Costner becomes the prey in this thrilling cat-and­mouse game that will keep you on the edge of you sofa (HBO Video, rated R. 116 minutes, $89.95). 
As the third sequel to Steven Spielberg's original watery horror tale, "Jaws the Revenge" (1987) is parody of itself. This time the great white sharK Is out for more that just human flesh; it wants revenge, and follows the Brody family from Amity to the Bahamas, where it terrorizes the screen--but not the audience. This box office flop should close this sea denizen's mouth forever (MCA Home Video, rated PG-13, 87 minutes, $98.95). 
"In The Mood," (1987) fol­lows the real-life exploits of "Sonny" Wisecarver, a 14-year­old who, during WWII. married two older women and made front page news as the "woo­woo-kid" (Lorimar Home Video, rated PG-13, 98 minutes, $79.95). 
In "The Curse" ( 1987), a mys­terious orb from outer space contaminates the water, food and minds of a small farming town, bringing death, destruc­tion and ghoulish special ef­fects to the screen (Media Home Entertainment rated R. 90 minutes, $79.95). "Voyage of the Rock Aliens" ( 1987) stars Pia Zadora as a singer who joins a band of alien rock musicians (flying around the cosmos in guitar-shaped spaceship) when they land on Earth in search of the origins of rock 'n roll, making this fllm a "way-out" science fiction musical (Prism Entertainment rated PG, 97 minutes(. 
I 1t '':::>'52NIIIPII&W-.~SWW"fi.4& .w~ '''"041&'-~·"'-i!.~!"_l,l:'-'.'l,;;ilj~~ 
Friday, February 5, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
$ports Briefs 
Top-ranked Arizona lost to Stanford Thursday night 82-74. The Cardinal scored the last 10 points of the game to stop Arizona's eight-game winning streak. 
Associated Press 

Bill Madlock has agreed to a one-year $600,000 contract with the Lotte Orions in Japan. Madlock, a four­time National League batting champion, played with Detroit and Los Angeles last season. -Associated Press 
ND hockey will be broadcast on WVFI again this weekend. Tune in at 7 p.m. Friday and Saturday night to 'The Iceman' Sean Pieri and Steve Trepiccione for all the action, and Jamey Rappis will have the between-periods show. -The Observer 
The NVA track meet will take place Sunday, 
February 7, at 1 p.m. at the Loftus Indoor Complex. -The 
Observer 

,.. 
Classifieds 
Booros hot 
at P. Beach 
Associated Press Flying Irish Classic Basketball Tournament Feb. 6-7. Six­teen teams from Army, Air Force and Navy ROTC units 
Air Force ROTC will be hosting the second annual 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. ­in a five-state area will compete. Games will be played 
Jim Booros, who had to re­all day at Stepan Center with the championship game to 
qualify for the PGA tour last be played Sunday at 12 p.m. -The Observer 
fall, finished off a 67 with birdies on the last three holes The Sailing Club is travelling to the University 
Thursday to earn a share of the of Michigan this weekend to set the 1988 regatta schedule. 
first-round lead in the $700,000 
Pebble Beach National Pro­
Am. 

"I can't believe I played the 
-The Observer 

The Racquetball Club will mail league schedules back in 30," the 37-year-oldnext week. League play starts the week of Feb. 15. Any Booros said after his effort atquestions, call Dave (1425) or Mark (1422). -The Observer 
Pebble Beach, one of three courses used for the first three The graduate hockey team skated by Off Campus rounds of this event, tied him Tuesday night 11-6. The team's next game is Tuesday at with Mark Calcavecchia and
11:45 p.m. -The Observer 
Jim Gallagher. 

Booros, 37, has played the 
PGA tour off and on since 1977. 
n.a.....Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, ..:cepta cluslfled edwlftiiMng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvuugh Friday. The a.....Saint Mlily'1l offlce, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next~ classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be pntpald, either In P8f8011 or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five c:tw.:ters per ct.y. 
NOTICES Sony Diskettes Contact Tim Dierks of MadMacs for the best price on Sony D&OD 3.5" diskettes for your Macintosh r other computer. Call 283-2101 and help support the Macin­tosh Users Group! Guaranteed for life  FOUND: White and light blue Red Sky wool and acrylic sweater on sidewalk be­tween Grace and P.E. last Friday. Call 271-0845 FOUND: GOLD RING ON NORTH QUAD. CALL KATHY TO IDENTIFY. 2892. FOR RENT I  Tascam 4-track Portastudio Great for bands, demos. $850 232-6528 '81 Ford Escort 2-Door, 4 speed, stereo cassette. $1995 or best offer call £1999, Pat COMPUTER FOR SALE Mac 512K with 400K external disk drive call 239-7599 8 ~~-~­-~..~:~ ................................ ..  Anyone interested in a one month sum­mer study program in Scandinavia and the Soviet Union? The program will run from June 17 to July 15, 1988. For more information, call David or Pat at x1155. Hurry, space is limited. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS  DOUBLE, You are my favorite date. Flea CK, I can't wait for Saturday. Let's hope we don't see any cakes, crepe paper, tinfoil, sinks, or other people's dates. You are my favorite date. Hyphen Sister Pentacost, Your date is safe with me this time. Sister Epiphany  CORRECTION Yesterday's personals mistakenly asked Molly Rauscher how she liked freshmen. The question should have been "Michelle Spring, how do you like freshmen?" Molly wishes for everyone to know that she has never stooped lower than sophomores. AN EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING? SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE TRYING TO GET ME DRUNK AGAIN .... the nude one.  
TYPING-WOAD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 MARISSA'S TYPING 27?-2724 NIGHT; 27?-1051 DAY. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  LARGE DUPLEX FOR RENT. WILL Ac-COMMODATE 8-9 STUDENTS. THREE COMPLETE BATHS, COMPLETELY FURNISHED INCLUDING WASHER & DRYER. NEW SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234-9384 AFTER 5, NANCY HUMBARGER. FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND. 27?­3097, 683-8889.  I TICKETS • UCLA I need two UCLA GAs. Please call JR at 283-1538. Thanks. WANTED: TWO G.A.a FOR UCLA GAME PLEASE CALL AMY £2845  PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORNINGS 914-3814224 IrS NOT TOO EARLY TO PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. AVOID THE RUSH AND COME IN ANY DAY FROM NOW UNTIL THURSDAY, FEB. 11.  Fat, You better run and hide--you may be the next roommate to suffer. La Happy 21st to the coolest of the coot-­D'JUAN FRANCISCO Hope you have a great day. Don't get caught in the darkroom!!! DARKROOM GODDESS Steve Miller is a god ..........................................................  BEAUTIFUL BLONDE,PONYTAIL,INCAEDIBLE EYES-6:45pm WED. N. DIN. HALL WHO ARE YOU?! GUY WN.D. SWEATS AND HAT FACING YOU WOULD LOVE TO KNOW JOE-3249 To the girl wearing a green-TULANE­tshirt in 3rd II. Rockne on WED. -very impressive. Working out again soon? Sat 4, Man 7  
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272-8827  PARTIALLY FURNISHED BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS  RANCH  3  NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR UCLA-CALL  NEED RIDE TO PURDUE FOR WKEND 2112-14 GREG £1562  Q: What are companies really looking for? A: BUSINESS MAJORS (but that's allright cause we need maids and chauf­ ssshhh .. be vewy quiet Elmer Fudd has an SYR  
WASHER,  DRYER,  OVEN,  STOVE,  TOM X1609  lers) 227 Zahm  
REFRIGERATOR, SOFTNEA.  
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 27?­GREAT NEIGHBORHOOD, OFF AN­7406 GELA BLVD. IDEAL FOR 3 STUDENTS CALL 232-3616 TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 6 BDRM, 2 BATH W!SHOWERS. ON BUS LINE TO ND. FURNISHED, GOOD EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL NEIGHBORHOOD, $1300TUDENT & MRS. COKER 233-7009. UTILITIES. 233-9947 OR 287-3530. Terrie's Typing 287-1283 FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­WORD PROCESSING, LASER BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955<255­PRINTER, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, 3684 CAN SAVE ON DISK, FOOTNOTES, RESUMES. EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288­0955 I LOST/FOUND IIL.-_w_A_N_Te_o_____.  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE MOM IS COMING FOR JPW NEED 2 DAYTON TIX SO SHE CAN SEE ND BASKET­BALL GAME CALL 283-3484 ASAP THAN X NEED TWO UCLA GA TIX DESPERATELY. CALL DAN X3261. UCLA TICKETS WANTED: 2 lower arena student or GA tickets. We can negotiate for large sums of CASH. Call Mike at x3698 N"eE·o·2~4·u-c:L.A..G";;:s..c:i...;·;a2····.. ··· Needed: Two GA's for Vandertlitt game. Call Pete at x1 033. Need 4 Vanderbilt tix -call Mike 1699  DO YOU REALLY WANT TO GO HOME FOR SPRING BREAK? GO TO DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA ROUND TRIP, 7 DAYS FROM $199 CALL CHRIS KILEY 3382 NOW! Hi Vivian, I Hope You'Ve Been Watching These Past Two Days ... You Don'T Know What You'Ve Been Missing. Your "Secret" Admirer I NEED 1 T-SHIRT THAT READS "SEE TIM RUN, SEE TIM CATCH THE BALL!" PLEASE CONTACT LISA £284-5078 Happy Birthday Denise!!! Mary says "Gee Denise, you don't seem 211" Colleen says "Hi, we love you, congratulations, can we drink your wine?" Larissa would say  LET'S MOVE It's Alex's birthday! Stop by Club Dankis to help the Pres. of the Club have a wild birthday. You won't regret it! Happy Birthday Alex! I hope all your birthday wishes come true! L Shoot...Scorel Notre Dame Hockey. Fire on Ice! If you thought 35-14 was bad, Air Force wait until Irish Hockey gets through with you! Top 1 0 reasons to go to Notre Dame  Jimbo, Danimal, and All: The road trip was the best time of my life; you guys are soo cooool!l!!!! Betsy, lets BOB for apples roomie from hell ATTENTION! We'll rub those pa1ns away! Massages for ALCOHOL!!! For more information call the Sleepless Six at 4135. TO A SPECIAL DAUGHTER AND SISTER, DENISE BOYCHUK, ON HER 21st BIRTHDAY, FEB. 6th. HEALTH, HAPPINESS AND THE BEST OF EVERYTHING IN YOUR FUTURE. DRINK UPI HAVE A FUN DAY! WE MISS YOU. LOTS OF LOVE, MOM, DAD AND SISSY  
MISSING: leather bomber jacket from BEEF'S house Fri. Jan.22. Important that it is returned. Call Allison at 1340. LOST: GOLD-RIMMED GLASSES IN A BROWN CASE ON TUES JAN. 26. THE CASE SAID SEBASTIAN ON IT. IF YOU FOUND THEM PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X2039 OR X2040. FOUND: One white silk woman's scarf with a paisley print on it. It was in the Keenan Lobby after the world famous Keenan Revue Party. If ~ Is yours, please  WANTED Macintosh serial HARD DRIVE lor Mac 512e with no SCSI port. Call 239-57?2 and leave a message for Matt. Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. Earn $&hr! MATEO'S SUBS needs drivers! If interested in big $$$, call 271-0SUB  PERSONALS BELL YGRAMS I 255-3355 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. JMB  "Salutations etc." (so happy birthday) JOOOAN, EMA & PATTY--HAVE A "BALL" AT THE TAl MIL! WAIT A MINUTE HONEY! THERE'S BEEN A MISTAKE. URANUS WAS OUT OF PLACE AND THE MIDGETS MISSED THEIR PLANE! BEAUTIFUL CHINESE LOVE WEEKEND II IS YET TO COME. T Last year it was great, last year it was fine, last year was the date, that Rona  Hockey against Air Force Friday and Sat­urday, 7:30 p.m., north dome of the JACC. 10.) Maybe someone will win the car for the year in the Bartles and Bar­naby's puck shoot-out. 9.) Winning streak at 10 and counting. B.) LarrytheZamboni Driver 7.) Admission free with NOOMC student ID. 6.) It's okay to be insane in the stands, so be crazy. 5.) Siren whistles 4.) Mike McNiell and Tim Kuehl--scoring machines! 3.) Cheerleaders on ice? Maybe. 2.) Ric Schafer is a hockey genious 1.) More fun than Darners should be allowed.  Is your pencil big and yellow? If so call Lola at x4693 BENDIX WOODS BENDIX WOODS BENDIX WOODS This Saturday Tickets are on sate TODAY ONLY from 1 -3 p.m. for $2 in the Sophomore Class Office, Second Floor LaFortune. Bus leaves Main Circle Saturday at 7 p.m., returns  
call Dan tzzo at 3319 as it doesn't go  got fined. Last year when you chowed,  10:30.  
with anything I own. MISPLACED SWEATSHIRTIIII! IN THE ACC FIELD HOUSE FRIDAY NIGHT (LNO)--GRAY N.D. SWEATSHIRT, SIZE LARGE. IF YOU HAVE MINE-I HAVE YOUASII CALL TANJA X2843  SOUTH PADRE ISLAND I NEED A RIDE TO SOUTH PADRE FOR SPRING BREAK. IF SOMEONE ON THE SUB TRIP WANTS TO SELL THEIR BUS SPOT PLEASE CALL ALSO. KEVIN 2335 ASAP  One Calorie Diet Coke LAUD. BEACH LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL  and passed out on the rug, no more beer is what you vowed ... oh well, go get your mug. HAPPY BIRTHDAY AONOI NUDESKYDIVERS D Happy Birthday Mike! C Hope you have a nice weekend with  CHRISTY A. lets smelly farts!. ..(truce?) Jennifer Rudolph: Just wanted to make sure you know how sorry I was to miss the game; thanks for being such a great friend! ! !  SHERRY KILL; Happy belated birthday.•.no more excuses. Congrats with camps. Now you have double the reason to celebrate. A big hello also to  
Lost: BLUE WINTER JACKET contain­ MANAGER WANTED FOR TEENAGE  Sunsational beachfront hotel for Spring  Kelly. Sorry I can't be here for the wild  Margaret Cox and the chics ·on Rex  
ing a wallet and set of keys. Lost Thurs. at JACC racquetball Courts. Reward 4330  DISCO IN NILES. IF INTERESTED CALL COLLEEN, 8110-843-3848. MALE TRANSFER STUDENT LOOKING  Break '88. Right on strip, close to all bars. Only $14g.person (41-oom) for 8 days, 7 nights of Florida fun and sun. Call 1-800­ENJOY-US.  bash I'm sure you're going to have. D.G. K, Good try. I commend you. 'Tis a pity you fell victim to the lure of a well turned  SEAN CULLINAN BMOC  Street. Happy Birthday Susy Hernandez!!!  
Lost: Detex. keys, and ID between Badin and South Dining Hall. If found, call 3720.  FOR CHEAP SUB-LET FOR SUMMER MONTHS CALL X3484.  finger (or was it?) VALENTINE'S DAY  BOXER-GRAMS  BIG MANATEE ON CAMPUS  Happy 24th ??? Birthday you big hairy  
'.  lost: TRIANGLE-SHAPED BLACK LACE HEAD SCARF. CALL DAY 239-5654 GENEROUS AEWARDIII LOST: Sapphire And Diamond Pinky Ring Lost Friday Night. Has Very Sen­timental Value. If Found, Please Call Jeanne At 283-3887.  OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Austratta,Asla. All fields. $900-2000 mo. Stghtsee­tng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. FOR SALE  VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that spe­cial guy the best gift of all -lyourself -In a Glamour Portrait by Joe Ringer. Call for details and free brochure. 287­0613. COKE SWEETENS APARTHEID APAR­THEID KILLS SUPPORT THE BOYCOTT  1!1!11 Have Valentine Boxer-Grams delivered to your friends. roommates or sweethearts. Buy in SDH 2-9 & 2110 or call Chris X2521 CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII Speed skating was never this much fun.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU BETSY SEGGERSON YOU'RE THE SWEETEST AND THE COOLEST AND YOU'RE TWENTY TOMORROW WE LOVE YOUII! HEY PANGBORN WINDOW WAS­HERS! HOW LONG IS YOUR  hunk of a man!! Yes, tomorrow Feb. 6, this incredible and most awesome love­machine otherwise known as the F. stud who never quits, celebrates! Come 1 come all to wish the G-man the best. Happy Birthday Greggie M.!l PS Instead of a BD cake I think I'll give you a banana split.  
LOST Black sony walkman between the  . YOU MISSED A SPOT! - 
Law School and Alumni last Friday Janurary 29th. If found please call 271­0865.  FOR SALE MCAT Prep Books And Materials. All  KUJO, I NEVER KNEW WHAT LOVE MEANT UNTIL I MET YOUI LOVE, ME  424 OCCUPANTS Well, STUDMUFFIN O'GAR you have  "STEGAMANIA" is running WILD  
LOST: VARSITY LETTER JACKET TAKEN FROM THE LOFTUS WEIGHTROOM ON FEB. 1 BETWEEN 5-6 PM. I WORKED 4 YEARS TO GET  Like New. BE PREPARED! Call Ted At 2387.  A SUMMER IN EUROPE? INTER­ESTED IN TRAVEL TO FRANCE,GER,SWITZ,ITALY? SIGN UP FOR THE ND-SMC SUMMER ROME PROGRAM FROM JUNE 12-JULY 11.  SOPHOMORES TUBING SAT. 6TH 7­10:00 P.M. BENDIX $2.00 TRANSPO PROVIDED SIGN-UP SOPH OFFICE 1­3:00 P.M. FRIDAY, 5TH  reached your peak of perversion someone offers you a taste of ice cream and you get all pink and squishy!! I guess ~·s a good thing I wasn't eating cherry-swir1 ice-cream!  Sue-cute bunny nose Steph-nice laugh Amy-love those facial expressions You know who  
THIS AND WOULD APPRECIATE IT IF  FOR SALE: AL 300 Slats Books. Com­ COURSE  CREDIT  AVAILABLE  IN  
- YOU COULD RETURN IT. CALL JOHN 1075.  plete Set--Buy All Or None ... PLEASE!!!! Call £1185. Martin M-36 acoustic guitar $7?5 232­ ITALIAN,SOC,HIST. FOR MORE INFO CALL T.J. AT 2053 OR DR. BLACK AT 284-4460.  FLYING IRISH BASKETBALL TOURN­AMENT -featuring 13 teams! Come sup­port your ROTC teams -Air Force, Army and Navy Sat. 8am-9pm and Sun. 8am­ NAPES NAPES NAPES WE ARE FLAGLESS AND ATE ...  DESPER­ ALEX ABRALDESII!I ALEX ABRALDES !Ill HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAYIII! From, Your "Chaminade Fag" roommate  

I LOST A PAIR OF HUGE, WOOL, OR­ANGE, LIGHT BLUE,AND GREEN MIT­TENS IN O'SHAG. PLEASE RETURN TO TIFFANY 3390 IF FOUND -THEY ARE THE ONLY THINGS THAT WILL EVER MATCH AN ORANGE COAT. THANK YOU! 

6528 
Hohner 5-string bluegrass banjo-­prfessional quality $375 232-6528 
Yamaha PA, slave amp, mini-monitors $1500 for system 232-6528 
Let the Party Doctors perform their sur­gery of sound at your next event.... Call Dan at 3626 
NEED AIDE to Exit 12 on the Ohio Turnpike for weekend ol Feb. 5. Call Dan x1155 -will share $ and driving. 
1 pm at the Stepan Center BE THEREII! 
Thank You, St. Judell Thank You, St. Jude!! 
Happy 19th, Kristil We tuv yal Julie, Ed, and Chris. 
WHAT DO YOU SAY ... ? PB 
PEBBLE BEACH BOWLING QUEENS PEBBLE BEACH BOWLING QUEENS PEBBLE BEACH BOWLING QUEENS REIGN!I!I!II 
"SECRET"(!?)ADMIRER: WHO ARE YOU?I -VIV 
••• RIC HELLE L YN ASCHENBRENNER ••• Happy 19th Birthday!! We'll get you trashed Sat. nitel Love, Kel & Dee 
---~-------~-~-~---­
Friday, February 5, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Meyo attracts nation's best 
By MIKE SULLIVAN meet so special is not only the country. We want visiting ath­caliber of the athletes them­letes to leave here saying that 
Sports Writer 
selves, but also the facility in this is an incredible place to 
Like a professional driver which the meet will be held. run," said Paine. waiting to test his powerful new The Loftus Indoor Facility, be­Among the college athletes car, the Fighting Irish men's sides housing a tremendous that will be present is Tom track team prepares to host its football facility, contains the Smith who currently holds the first home indoor track meet of "premier indoor track in the NCAA record in the high jump the season at the brand-new country," according to Irish at 7'6.5". Arizona features a Loftus All-Sports Center. Head Coach Joe Piane. long jumper who has leaped 
The Irish will be going up The track, at 352 meters, is over 25 feet and a high jumper against some of their toughest the largest in the country. The who has jumped 7'5". Jack competition of the indoor mundo surface of the track is Quade, also from Arizona, has season, with the likes of the same surface that was used run a 3.42 1500 meters, as has Purdue, Arizona, DePaul, Illi­in the Olympics at Montreal, Bob Mau from Northwestern. nois State, Loyola, and others Munich and at the 1987 World Eastern and Western Michigan visiting Notre Dame. Indoor and Outdoor Champion­feature two explosive mile 
Featuring some of the ships. relay teams, running a 3: 11 and country's top track and field "Simply put, the surface is 3:14 respectively. athletes, collegiate and non­the best in the world," said "I expect them to be running collegiate alike, the meet will Piane. · around a 3:08," said Piane. include a special mile run This weekend's'" meet is Notre Dame sophomore shot which includes four of the top called the Ray Meyo Invita­putter Tom Crause is also an­-. milers in the country, all of tional in honor of Ray Meyo, a other athlete expected to have which have run sub-four­Notre Dame graduate and a big day. minute miles. Among them is large benefactor to the facility. The Ray Meyo Invitatiional 
mental mistakes that have

Chuck Aragon, a Notre Dame "Thanks to Ray Meyo we is free to the public. The meet plagued them this season, es­
Irish
graduate and member of the hope to make this one of the starts at 11 a.m. with the pole pecially in losses to KentuckyAthletics West Track Club. most prestigious meets in the vault and long jump. 
and Maryland in their last two 

continued from page 16
What makes the upcoming games.
• (there has to be a vowel in there "We're a team that has to somewhere) Krzyzewski's concentrate on the little
NO soccer opens spr1ng season 
Blue Devils, who sport a 15-2 things," Phelps says. "We're 
(5-1 and atop the Atlantic Coast not going to be a dominating By PETE GEGEN that there is more at stake for the U.S. Summer Olympics Conference) heading into a team, so we've got to have the Sports Writer his team. team. home game Saturday against mental concentration for 40 
"It's a great deal for Notre N.C. State, are as talented as minutes if we're going to beat 
This weekend the Irish soc­"This past fall season was a Dame and for soccer in gen­any team in the country. Their the better teams. We did that cer team heads to Chicago to fairy tale come true," said eral," said Grace, "and the only losses have come at top­down the stretch against begin what should be an inter­Grace. "Not many people Olympic cause is just icing on ranked Arizona and at home to Kansas, but we didn't against esting spring season for the believe in Notre Dame outside the cake." Maryland. Along the way this Kentucky and Maryland. team. of ourselves. We have to begin That inaugural "Golden season, Duke has beaten SEC "It won't be any different on 
to let people know that we're Boot" match will be played leading Florida and North the road against Duke, which Thursday, April14 at 7:30 p.m. certainly is as strong as any
Northwestern is hosting this not a fluke." Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
at the IUPU-Indianapolis Leading the way for the Blue team we've played all year.
16-team two-day indoor tourn­Looking at the spring campus stadium. Grace said Devils is 6-10 junior forward We've got to play smart and doament as a fundraiser for 
schedule, the Irish will be that officials were hoping to Danny Ferry. The all-America the things we want to do for 40juvenile diabetes. Indiana and 
tested several times. Next draw a crowd of 10,000 for the candidate and son of Washing­minutes.''
several of the top soccer As has been the case all year, 
schools from Illinois and Wis­weekend the team participates match. ton Bullets' General Manager 
in the St. Louis Budweiser In­Finishing off the spring Bob Ferry is averaging 18.8 David Rivers has been leading consin will participate. 
door Invitational, and just last schedule is a possible outdoor points per game and 7.6 the squad. Rivers is averaging 
While the spring season is Wednesday it was announced tournament at Quincy, Ill., rebounds a game and has 23.7 points per game and has usually used to evaluate talent that Notre Dame will face In­which would feature handed out 76 assists on the established himself as a under game situations, Irish diana outdoors at Indianapolis Evansville and Southern Meth­season. Right behind Ferry on leading candidate for player­head coach Dennis Grace said in an effort to raise funds for odist. the Blue Devil scoring chart is of-the-year honors. But the the 
game, and if we do that I'm rest of the team seems healthy 6-5 senior guard Kevin Strick­Irish haven't been able to get sure we'll be all right. Having and ready to go. The practices land, who averages 18.2 points consistent scoring from anyone 
Hockey 
per contest. else. Strickland's backcourt mate "We've got to stop relying on 
(Air Force) at home is great this week h'ave been intense 
continued from page 16 because the fans have been and we're playing well pr~y is Quin Snyder. The 6-3 junior David to do all the scoring,"
they've scored some big wins super all year and we'll need consistently now. Hopefully, over tough teams, but they do them for this series." we'll get the same great sup­averages 7.5 points per contest says sophomore guard Joe have three losses. All we can Last week's sweep of Kent port from the fans and show and has a team high 83 assists. Fredrick, who has put together 
Rounding out the Blue Devil two solid games in the absence do is try to win the rest of our State proved to be costly in that them some good hockey." 
lineup are 6-5 Robert Brickey of Mark Stevenson. 
games and be optimistic. 'The the Irish lost sophomore 
(9.5 points per game, 4.5 But the Irish are staring at a
rest' starts with these two." winger Bruce Guay for this Irish head football coach Lou rebounds) and 6-6 swingman bigger problem if they can'tAccording to Schafer, the weekend's series. Guay, the Holtz will be on hand at the Billy King (4.9 ppg, 3.4 rpg). bring home a W.
Irish are loose and ready to third-leading scorer on the JACC to participate in the The Blue Devils aren't a big "We're going to have to tryprove themselves. Bobby Her­Irish with 35 points, suffered a weekly Bertie's and Barnaby's team, but they're quick and and pull this one out Sunday," 
ber, right wing on the third line thigh contusion in Saturday Celebrity Puck-Shoot between along with Thomas Smith and night's 11-2 victory. the second and third periods of loaded with talent. If the Notre sophomore forward Keith Rob­
Dame has one thing in its favor, inson, who leads the Irish in
Bob Bilton, confirms that fact. Friday night's game. If Holtz 
it may be that Duke will be rebounding at 7.3 per game,"This is our chance to show "We'll sure miss Bruce," can shoot the puck from the red playing its fourth game in six said Wednesday. "If we don't,that we're no fluke," said Her­said Schafer. "He'll be line to a small opening in one days when the ball goes up Sun­it'll be three loses in a row.
ber, a junior with 19 points for replaced by Frank O'Brien on of the goals, he wins free usage day. But even still, the key for We're going to have to try ourthe year. "None of us think we the line centered by (senior of a Mazda automobile for a the Irish will be to avoid the hardest this weekend." 
are. All we can do is play our captain) Mike McNeill. The year. 

LIQUOR
BEER 

McCormick Vodka .... l.75 liter.....$7.99
CITY-WIDE LIQUORS
Hammes.....24 cans.....$5.99 

Jack Daniels..... l.75 liter.....$19.99
Hammes Ught....24 cans..... 5.99 

Bacardi Rum...... l.75 liter.....$12.99
Old Mllwaukee .... 24 cans.....$5.99 
3825 N. Grape Rd. 
Peachtree Schnapp's... l.75 liter...$11.99
Old Milwaukee Light ... 24 cans...$5.99 Miller Genuine Draft...24 cans...$8.57 
Walker's Canadian...l.75 liter.....$9.99
Mish, Ind. 

Maul Tropical Schnapp's...750 ml...$4.99 Miller's ..... 24 cans.....$7.99 
Miller Light ..... 24 cans.....$8.57 
Hours: 
Meister Brau.....24 cans.••..$4.99 

Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm.
Budweiser.....24 cans.....$8.90 Bud Light ..... 24 cans.....$8.90 
TRY OUR NEW ENTRANCE OFF EDISON RD.
Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 272-2274 
RETURNABLES Budweiser ...... 24 bottles ..... $7.99 

SUPER SPECIAL
Bud Light ..... 24 bottles ..... $7 .99 
I

"Special Exports" 
., 
zQUARTS 

Reg u larA.ig ht 
Budweiser........$10.99 Bud Light ........ $10.99 
24 bottles 

........... 
$8.99 

I 
CALL fOR SYR PARTIES! 
_I__ 
--~-----~---~-----~-------, 
page 12 Friday, February 5, 1988
The Observer 

.­
~ 

for 

STUDENT UNION BOARD .·.·.· 
... 
S. U.B. is seeking fun, dedicated, enthusiastic, and creat[ve people who 
would like to provide Notre Dame students with beneficial services and wild and crazy social activities. We are now accepting aoplications for commissioner positions for the 1988-89 school year . 

CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSION: Did you see Hypnotist Gary Conrad i!i!i! or Larry "Bud" Melman, Rita Budner, and Emo Phillips in the AT & T Comedy tour? These ::y were sponsored b~ the Campus Entertainment Commission which also sponsors "We Can Make i!H You Laugh," Nightclub Nights at Theodore's, trips to Chicago, and various social events. ::} 
\i:\\ SPECIAL EVENT_S COMMISSION· What about An Tostal? Who are the people in charge :} of that? The Spec1al Events C?mmission, sponso~s this along_with other week-long events ··· 
suchasW:I:::A~:::E:::::::~F;::::;:~:~dW::t:~::~u like about THE ROMANTICS? 
Th1s concert was brought to you by the Musical Entertainment Commission as were concerts .·.·.· by IPSO FACTO, PIECES OF A DREAM, TRIP SHAKESPEARE, and PAR 3. This commission :::::: 
i) is also responsible for the NAZZ competition, campus band jams, and lip sync contests. 
J 
i\i\l IDEAS AND ISSUES COMMISSION: This commission sponsors lectures on campus by national ::\ )i speakers such as John Kenneth Galbraith, George Plimpton, and Shirley Chisholm. They are also ... \\\ involved in planning debates and panel discussion. ... 

MOVIE COMMISSION: You can always count on being able to go to see a movie at :::::::::::_:::::_:·:::_::_:·::::_:_·::::::Cushing Auditorium. The Movie Commission is responsible for the popular new and classic movies shown weekly on campus. 
CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION: Remember the ODOSan Francisco Dance Company and the Alpha-Omega Players' performance of BAREFOOT IN THE PARK? The Cultural Arts Commission is responsible for these performances as well as the SOPHOMORE LITERARY 
/ ~~~T~i~~~~ ~~Tc~g~L~~~~~~~ J~r7i!~~~VA,k~d~to~~~D~~Ts~~~~~t~~~~R~~~u~~~~~· ••••••. 
iiii::; SFRVICES COMMISSION: Are you headed to South Padre or Vail for Spring Break? :::::. ::::::: inese trips are brought to you by the Services Commission. They also provide valuable ... ii:ii:! services like STEPAN MALL, the USED BOOK SALE, and refrigerator rentals. 
••••:: JBLICITY COMMISSION: Somebody has to· make sure everyone knows about all .. ::t tnese great events.· This commission coordinates all the advertising such as Observer and !!!!\\:Scholastic ads, posters, table tents, and other methods to"get the word out"'about S.U.B. activities. ··· 
:·:-:-: 

;::::: ·aUSINE9S AUQ!TOB: If you're a business major, this may be the position for you. ···· ::::;:: The Aud1tor maintains the books and keeps the financial statements for the S.U.B. ... 
•11 student-run businesses such as ADWORKS, IRISH GARDENS, and THE CELlAR. ••• 
!\!!\! CONTROLLER: You also need to be a business major for this position. The Controller :1:1: keeps track of all financial matters and monitors spending of all the commissions. ... 
::·:·· 
DEADLINE EXTENDED 
Applications for these positions are due Feb. 5 before 5:00 pm ?ii ;!ii!:• at the secretary"s desk on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. ,,,, 
[\il:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::>>>>>>:::<<:::>>::>>>>::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::{::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::f<<<<<<<<<<<: 
Friday, February 5, 1988 

Devils 
continued from page 16 
not the same squad that began the season 12-0 and ranked as high as ninth. Junior forward Katie Meier injured her knee in a Jan. 9 game against Maryland. The Blue Devils went on to lose that contest and three of their next four without their all-American before she returned against North Carolina last week. Duke lost that contest by a point and has split its last two games, beating Georgia Tech 80-71 last weekend and losing 78-65 at Monday night at Clemson. 
Meier averages 16.0 points per game and 6.6 rebounds, while handing out 70 assists for the season. The big gun for Debbie Leonard's squad is Blue Devils is all-America forward Chris Moreland. The 6-1 senior averages 18.9 points per game and 12.2 rebounds per contest. 
Rounding out the Blue Devil lineup is forward Paula Ander­son (9.2 points per game, 4.3 rebounds, team-leading 74 as­sists), center Sue Harnett (14.0 ppg, 8.4 rpg) and guard Leigh Morgan (5.8 ppg, 2.0, 73 as­sists). 
"Duke is a lot like us," McGraw said of the Blue Demons. "They have a very strong inside game, good guards, and not a lot of bench strength." 
McGraw added that to counter the Blue Devils inside game, the Irish would "definitely" play some zone defenses. 
After a night's · sleep and a second look at the stats, McGraw said she felt a little better about her squad's disap­pointing loss to Tennessee. "Looking at the stat sheet, we played our normal game," McGraw said. "We didn't rebound as well. Seventy points should be enough to win a game, but we didn't play good defense. We're getting some good shots, but we're not get­ting enough of them." 
~-------­
The Observer page 13 
Bullets great, coach Unseld tops Hall of Fame inductees 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -Wes Unseld, the first year he was up for election, Clyde Lovel­lette and Oregon State Coach Ralph Miller were named to the Basketball Hall of Fame Thursday. 
A fourth man whose election was announced was the late Bobby McDermott, who dropped out of high school to star in the pros in the 1930s. 
Although Unseld made it in his first try, the Honors Com­mittee passed over his flashier former teammate Earl Monroe for a second consecutive year. 
"I wasn't flashy and I never played pcetty," said Unseld, who last month became head coach of the Washington Bul­lets in the NBA. "My contribu­tions were in the things most people don't notice. They weren't in high scoring or dunking or behind-the-back passes." 
But during his 13-year playing career with the Bullets, the 6-foot-9· Unseld, who also played center on his high school football team and won the Ken­tucky state high school shot put championship, averaged 14 rebounds and 10.8 points in 984 games and led the Bullets to the 1978 NBA title. 
His impact on the Bullets was immediate. A first-round draft pick, who had averaged 19 rebounds and 20 points a game at the University of Louisville, Unseld was named the NBA's Most Valuable Player as well as Rookie of the Year in 1969. The only other player to gain both honors was Wilt Chamber­lain. 
Following his retirement, Unseld was named vice presi­dent of the Bullets in 1981. He began this season as an assis­tant coach. 
Unseld was surprised that Monroe again failed to win election. "If anybody in his era revolutionized the game it was Earl. We have Michael Jordan and Magic Johnson now, but he was the one who set the stan­dard for that type of play,'' U n­seld said. 
Lovellette, who ushered in the era of the high-scoring big center in the early 1950s at the University of Kansas, said he also had felt ignored by the Hall of Fame. 
"It seems somewhat overdue. I used to read about guys who came after me get­ting elected, and it sort of made me wonder. But I'm just glad it happened, before I passed away," said Lovellette, in a telephone interview between classes at White's Institute in Wabash, Ind., where he teaches teen-agers who have been in trouble with the law. 
After leading Kansas to the NCAA championship in 1952 and the U.S. Olympic team to the gold medal in Helsinki, he averaged 17 points a game in an 11-year professional career with the Minneapolis Lakers, Cincinati, St. Louis and the Boston Celtics. 
After his retirement from the Celtics, Lovellette worked as a television sports director, sheriff of Vigo County, Ind., director of a nursing home in Illinois, owned an antique shop on Cape Cod and coached at St. Anthony's High School in New Bedford, Mass. 
Miller is the winningest ac­tive coach in Division I. 
"I think anybody who goes into coaching hopes some day he might be elected and I'm just as happy as can be," said Miller, who prior to Thursday night's game with the Univer­sity of Southern California had amassed a 642-358 record in 37 years of college coaching. 


The office of Drug and Alcohol Education sponsors... 
(;v,

v'-1~ 
THE BOTTOM LINE & '$" THE FLYING LEATHERNECKS 
to celebrate the opening of their new office. 
Donations of $1 will go toward the Michael Cogswell Memorial Fund 
Have a good time and spend a dollar for something worthwhile! 
Open 9:30-2:00
ATURDAY 
From Chicago THE ALL NIGrlT NEWSBOYS live band sponsored by SUB 
SUNDAY 
Open 12:00-6:00 pm 
Cc:JI} baske"%~~h tho 
SUBS 6>~1" garn only $2.00 listen to tunes 

The Observer I File Photo The Notre Dame fencing team will try to keep letlc Facility. Scott B~o previews the action rolling In a meet this weekend at the Angela Ath-beginning on the back page. 
r~·.-..:·.-.c·-·-·-·-·-..-.....-.c..-...-.c~·~·~~..-.. ........-..........-.~ r Applications for Theodore's I 1 Student Managers for the I 1 1988-1989 school year will be I 1 available in the Student I 1 Activities Office I 1 TODAY They must 
L·-·--~~-J!!~~g,J!!l>~-E~~...?~~.J 
Fencing 
continued from page 16 
DeCicco said. "We have to show that we can win against Wayne State." 
Starting for the Irish against Wayne State in foil will be Yehuda Kovacs, Derek Holeman, and Joel Clark. Right behind Clark will be freshman Phil Leary, who is having an outstanding season. 
In the sabre . division the starters will be Leszek Nowosielski, Tim Collins, and Danny Yu, with freshman David Kirby close behind. 
The eppee team will see Todd Griffee, T~d Fay, and Doug Dudinski as its starters. 
On Saturday, both the teams will fence Case Western Reserve, Michigan, Northwes­tern, Ohio State, Chicago, and Oakland (Michigan). Cleveland State, Detroit, Eas­tern Michigan, Michigan State, and Purdue are also scheduled to compete in the meet. 
The fencing will begin at 7 
p.m. on Friday and 8 a.m. on Saturday, at the AAF at Saint Mary's. 


---~-­

Friday, February 5, 1988 
page 14 The Observer 
Irish sophomore 
Winter~s over for Robinson 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
You could say that Keith Robinson is used to the winters. Robinson is a native of one of the few places in the country with worse winters than South Bend--Buffalo, N.Y. Robinson remembers schools closing for days at a time and games being cancelled. 
But last year, the sophomore experienced a different kind of winter. Robinson was ineligible to play basketball last year un­der the provisions of NCAA Bylaw 5-1-(j). As the Irish went on to post upsets of North Carolina, Duke, DePaul and eventually end their season in the Final 16, Robinson could only watch and try to stay in shape. 
·country,  former  Irish  great  
John Shumate.  
"Shumate's  a  good  coach  

"Last year I worked out a lot in the weight room," Robinson says. "I did a lot of playing at the Rock with some of the stu­dents. I couldn't just sit back and sit out without trying to stay in shape. I just did a lot of playing and working out. 
"It feels good to be back with the team after sitting out last year. It was rough on me." 
But when spring came Rob­inson was eligible to join his teammates on their trip to Yugoslavia. Itwas his first shot to show his coaches what he could do. But for Robinson, bas­ketball was secondary to the experience of going out of the country. 
"It was an experience for me to go there and see a different lifestyle," Robinson says. "It was a chance for me to go out of the country for the first time, meet different people and see how they live. The competition was good because the players were older and had more expe­rience. Basketball was second­ary because we didn't have to practice, just play in the games." 
But when Robinson came back for his sophomore year, he found that the carefree days were over. Robinson became a key player off the bench for the Irish almost at once. But it was clear that the layoff had hurt him. He showed flashE>j of bril­liance inside but also made many errors, especially put­ting the ball on the floor when inside. More often than not, that led to turnovers. 
"In beginning of the season I needed to work on my defense," Robinson says of his 
Men's tennis faces Taledo 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame tennis team willlQok to remain un­beaten when it plays host to Toledo. Saturday. 
The Irish beat both Nor­thern Illinois and Southern Illinois in a tri-match last weekend to move their record to 3-0. 
Freshman Ryan Wenger remains undefeated at the number-three position, as does senior captain Dan Walsh at the number-four spot. 
Saturday's match begins at 11 a.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

game. "My scoring will come as I get more comfortable. I still have the same high school habit of putting the ball on the floor without knowing where my man is. I take one dribble for no reason and I usually get caught up. I'm on a different level than I was in high school." 
But the Irish have one of tve best big man coaches in the 
working with the big men," Robinson says. "He teaches us inside moves, ways to guard people in the post. He has ex­perience in the pros and here." 
While still in the early part of the season, Robinson expe­rienced . one of the loneliest feelings in basketball. He was at the foul line on the road at DePaul with a chance to seal a win in the nationally-televised game. He missed two shots, and the Irish went on to lose the game in overtime. 
"When I went to the line," Robinson remembers, "I thought I could make one at least one of those two free throws and it didn't happen." After the game I was down on myself because I could have won the game. Coach Phelps carne over and told me it was an experience for me and every college player has experienced those things. I felt bad for a couple of days before I got over 
it., But shortly after that disap­pointment, Robinson returned to Buffalo, where he was 
!!!DAAAANG!!! 
Happy Birthday Chief, Part II 

The night belongs to ~ Michelob: 
Take home exceptionally smooth Michelob by the case 
named Mr. Basketball in the state of New York while a senior at Grover Cleveland High School, and the fans there were eager to see their former prep star. A crowd 'of 13,558, the first sell-out for a college game in Buffalo, was on hand at Buffalo's Memorial Auditorium as Notre Dame took on St. Bonaventure. Rob­inson got his first start of the season and responded with a game-high 15 points in a 64-49 Irish win. 
"It was a big homecoming," Robinson recalls. "There were a lot of relatives and friends there to watch me play. That was one of the things I was looking forward to when I was able to play. I wanted to go home and play in front of my friends and family. It was just fun because everybody that I knew was there." 
Now Robinson has become Notre Dame's leading rebounder with 131 boards, 45 off the offensive glass. His 7.3 rebounds per game average is more impressive when you con­sider he averages 24 minutes a game. That along with his 9.1 points per game have made him a solid factor off the Irish bench. 
Robinson is philosophical about his future. 
"Every basketball player's dream is to play in the NBA, and that's what I'm striving for now," Robinson notes. "Whatever happens after that happens. I may go into business or whatever I'm comfortable with." 
..... 
·•:Y&M••'•·"··•.··~ 

The Observer I Pat Kusek Keith Robinson has become an integral part of the Irish basketball team after being ineligible as a freshman. Dennis Corrigan features Notre Dame's leading rebounder at left. 

f'J FRIDAY~B \ GAlUMNI·S~N\OR CLUB CUP 
't25 

fiLL ONE WlTK YOUR f'AVORITE ORAn' ~0~ JUST 75ct./U 
75t MARGARlTAS 
C.'-'eES! &TlC.kS 7S ~ 
f'.)SATURDAY Vi MILLER G!~~N~~AAFr 754 M~L&8U ~\"-'E~~PL&$ 754. 
~ 

.. 
Friday, February 5, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
ACROSS 1 Coconut meat 6 Gemstone 

4:30p.m.: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education dedication reception, 210 LaFor­
10 Space 
slghtlngs 14 With 13D, 

tune Student Center. 
5:15p.m.: Student Art Forum, Snite Museum. 
noted

6:30p.m.: Campus Bible Fellowship's fourth annual Invite Night, Campus House, 
comedian 

19525 Pendle Rd. 
15 Have courage 
16 Install

7-9:30 p.m.: A Taste of France, Le Cercle Francais' Creperie Restaurant, Center 
for Social Concerns.  
Dinner Menus  ·-~.·<.·  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Beer Batter Perch  Pizza  
London Broil  Shrimp Vegetable Oriental  
Broccoli Cheese Casserole  Deli Bar  
Monte Cristo Sandwich  

.:·· .. · 
17 Jargon 18 Regarding 19 Gaelic 20 Dine In a way 22 VIolations 24 Part of RPM: 
abbr. 25 Soars alone 27 The ones here 29 Spike 33 Sulk 34 Before side or 
rlde 35 Ardor 36 Many times to 
poets 37 Casualties 40 Separate 
4:2 Barred 43 Type of race 


All Rights Reserved 
44 Period 
45 Coax 
46 Wrath 
47 lt. river 
48 Jacket 
49 Encouraging 
shout 
51 Powerful one 
53 -Alamos 
54 Telegram word 
56  Prevent from  
stealing  a  
base  
61  Before long  

63 VIntage autos 65 Irritable 66 Sensualist 67 Border 68 Pass In 
69 Chi-chi 70 Spouse 71 Della of song 
DOWN 1 Situation 2 Jar 3 Map 

Comics · · , 

4 Gambling 
town 5 Certain cattle 6 Harem room 7 Faint 8 Talented 
person 
9 Author Uris 10 Avail 11 Digs up 12 Gobi spots 13 See 14A 21 Reach the 

limit 23 Porch 26 Hay area 28 Move rapidly 29 Fewer 30 Tilted 02/05/88 31 Obeys as 42 King -57 A Hackman 
orders 44 Quit 58 Bone: pref. 32 Complete 47 One-celled 59 Shoshones 37 Paroled organism 60 Phoenician 38 Large 49 Famous Bow port 
kangaroo 50 Integrity 62 Fr. marshal 39 Br. gun 52 After 64 Holy one: 41 Unique people 55 Trolley car abbr. 
·' 


Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
I flONT WI/NT T7J €UCT II COMAW~ CANPI!lllf'E. HOW 8tXJT BIWCE 8118/Jtrr 7 I  Me111tNI<5 YOU OVt'f?UXJK (](Jf{ CIW!lf!lATC'5 IJN{(}II€ 1/PP€/It. "' '  IN~Il OF fl Pf?f'51/7eNT WHO '5 IIX&EP rt&r/RATIV£/..Y, W€ CllN HAV€ ON€ P!l55etl Ot/T t/TY?/1/../..Y/ NO WON/J€R!Nf:J. fU/.. {Jf5Cf..OtXJ!(€/  tr'IJ8£ 1/N~tnN& NEW FKON1!eK IN Pl?£5/fleiTTA/.. C(}(IRI/17€. \  60 W()()t.{l fiN!lM£ uKe •!JI19fJ/TT~ \  

Bill Watterson 

The matador's nightmare 

Calvin and Hobbes 
winner of 60 international awards 
Dr.StraQgeJC)ve 
OR HOW I 
LEARNED TO 
STOP 
WORRYING 
AND LOVE 
THE BOMB. 

"Dr. Strangelove" 
Friday & Saturday 8 & 10 p.m. Cushing Auditorium $2.00 
Sports
page 16 Friday, February 5, 1988 
Men face tough Women ready team, wild crowd for big challenge 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor Sports Editor 

DURHAM, N.C.-Sunday, the Chris­DURHAM, N.C. -The scheduletians really are going to the lion's den, doesn't get any easier for the Notre or is that the cuckoo's nest? 
Dame women's basketball team thisWhen the 12-6 Notre Dame men's bas­weekend, as it travels to face 17th­ketball team ventures into Cameron In­ranked Duke Saturday. The game is the door Stadium for a contest against second straight against a Top 20 op­fourth-ranked Duke (3: 30 Sunday ponent after dropping a deceiving 91-71 afternoon on NBC), it will be entering decision to fourth-rated Tennessee what is considered the toughest place Wednesday night. 
to play in the country. The main reason "We're tired, that's for sure," Irish is the Duke student body. Al McGuire, head coach Muffet McGraw said who will be part of NBC's broadcast Thursday of her 12-6 squad. "We're crew for the game, calls Cameron the 
more physically tired than emotionally, zoo and has thrown peanuts to the (but) we really have to win to keep our 
animals. 
NCAA hopes alive." 

Duke's students are notorious for The Irish head into the game against their antics. In years past they've the Blue Devils a little banged up.
thrown pizza boxes at an opposing McGraw said that both Lisa Kuhns and player who got in a scrape with a pizza Heidi Bunek would not practice company, records at another player Thursday. Kuhns injured a knee in a who got in trouble for stealing a stereo fall against the Lady Volunteers, andand papers at yet another who got in Bunek is suffering from some ten­trouble for plagiarism. All in all, the dinitis. Their status was to be evaluated Duke student body is the perfect host. 
following Thursday's practice. Bunek "The Duke student body is very vo­leads the Irish in scoring at 18.9 pointscal," Irish head coach Digger Phelps per game and rebounding at 8.8 boards says. "Beating Duke at Duke is an ac­per contest. Kuhns is the team's leadingcomplishment. But no matter where we three-point shooter, having connected play, the crowd is pumped. We're used on 27-of-68 attempts (39.7 percent).
to that." 

The 14-6 Blue Devil team that the
The I Pat Kusek
The bigger test for the Irish will Irish are facing, while formidable, is
Gary Voce and the Notre Dame basketball day. Dennis Corrigan previews the game 
definitely be on the court, as Mike 
team look to rebound from two straight at left. 
see DfVILS, page 13 see IRISH, page 11 losses against fourth-ranked Duke Sun-

Fencers prepare for season's lone home meet 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Wayne State arrives on Friday. Wayne State to regain our con­ship she won as a sophomore, great German epeeists. I hope Sports Writer Last week, in a fiercely com­fidence." you can expect that she will be the foil and sabre squads will petitive meet, Wayne State The women's team was hurt ready. Her overall season give us a repeat performance." It's here. It happens once a barely edged out the women by by losing junior Janice Hynes, record is 39-2. The foil and sabre teams won year. It is the only home fen­a score of 9-7. its number-three fencer, for the The men's team coasts into convincingly, but the epeecing meet of the season, and it Women's Head Coach Yves season. However, sophomore the meet with a 15-0 season team lost 7-2. The perfor­.is expected to be filled with ex­Auriol would like another Anne Barreda has responded to record, after defeating Wayne mances by the foil and sabre citing bouts. chance. the challenge by compiling a State last Friday by a score of squads were enough to ensure 
The Notre Dame fencing "It's going to be a big 40-1 record, which is tops on the 18-9. Its victories over the the victory of the meet. team plays host to numerous rematch," said Auriol, who team. Barreda's only loss weekend extended its winning You can bet that Wayne State 
teams over the weekend, also will be a fencing coach in came in a bout against Wayne streak to 90 meets, dating all will be looking to avenge its facing rival Wayne State on the 1988 Olympics. "Wayne State. the way back to 1984. loss by upsetting the Irish at 
Friday night and six schools on State has two talented Ger­Senior Molly Sullivan, cur­"We had a very good tourn­home. Saturday. Instead of the usual mans and two Italians that are rently rated as one of the top ament at Wayne State," said "The Wayne State-Notresite of the ACC, the meets will strong additions to the team. five women fencers in head coach Mike DeCicco, in Dame annual meet has often be held at the Angela Athletic "Our girls need to regroup America, struggled against his 27th year coaching the dictated who would win the Facility at St. Mary's. and fence to their abilities. This Wayne State last Friday with team. "The big disappoint­Midwest Championship,"
The women's team is prob­Friday night's match is a very a 2-2 record. With her quest to ment, however, was the epeeably counting the hours until big one. We really need to beat regain the national champion-team. Wayne State had two see FENCING, page 13 
Air Force will test red-hot hockey team 
By PETE SKIKO higan, one of the leaders in the Sports Writer Central Collegiate Hockey As­sociation. Because of their The Notre Dame hockey tough schedule and despite team is 19-2-2, riding a ten­Notre Dame's sterling record, .. game wining streak, and Air Force has been placed
having one of the best years in ahead of the Irish in the inde­its existence as a varsity sport. pendent rankings. But there have been ques­Only one independent squad 
tions· about a relatively weak is given a berth in the NCAA schedule and the ability to win playoffs, and as Irish head co­the big games. ach Ric Schafer explains, if 
The Irish can take a giant Notre Dame is to have any shot step toward answering those at all at that spot, a sweep of 
questions by sweeping their the Falcons is crucial. 
two-game series against Air "The team we're chasing is Force this weekend at the Merrimac," said Schafer, in JACC. Both games, on Friday his first year as the Irish men­and Saturday nights, are at tor. "A couple of wins this 7:30p.m. weekend and they stumble a 
The Falcons are 12-9 on the bit. ..Who knows? They'veyear, but their wins include two (Merrimac) played a toughervictories over top-five indepen­schedule than we have, and The Observer I Brian Mast dent power Alaska-Anchorage The high-flying Notre Dame hockey team faces a Air Force comes to the JACC for a pair of games. 


and one over Western Mic-see HOCKEY, page 11 stiff test this weekend when tough independent Pete Sklko previews the weekend series at left. 




