
Balmy breezes blow
/ACCENT: Cher 'Moonstruck' 
Mostly sunny and warmer 
today with high in the low 50s. 
Increasing cloudiness tonight
IVIEWPOINT: A parody of social justice with a low around 40. 
0:3/ l!:o/88 Zl DIR 
EXPEDITE **** 

4~6556 -=ver===

... VOL. XXI, NO. 105 MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Neighbors to watch homes over break 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Police officers will make an ex­Staff Reporter tra effort to check houses that are part of the program. 
Groups in the Northeast • Storing valuable items with Neighborhood are taking steps a trusted neighbor or a friend to help Notre Dame students on campus. Storing items in keep their property safe over local warehouses is also an op-the upcoming break. tion. 
A. five-point program is being .. • Installing security devices mailed out to all off-campus such as deadbolt locks, light studen~s that can be located, timers and alarm systems. accor?mg to Sean Coleman, These items are inexpensive councilman-at-large. and easy to install. 
"This was started by the • Checking windows to make 
local neighborhood people," sure they are closed and said Jake Webster, chairman of 
latched. 

the Northeast Neighborhood • Asking a neighbor or Advisory Commission and a 
landlord to keep an eye on the 

local resident. ·"We want to house over break. Have the 
show our concern ... Every­mail picked up daily and a one benefits from this pro­porch and house light switched 
gram, and it doesn't cost a on at night.
dime," Webster said. 
Brendan Judge, student judi­

"From the resident stand­cial coordinator at Notre 
point, we're concerned with the Dame, stressed storing valu­
negative image (of the neigh­
able property elsewhere. "Off­borhood)," said Coleman. campus students have to take 
"This plan is a tool to get every­the time to think," he said. one out to meet the students, "Students should bring thei!'
Hall to the king and queen 
and to make them feel wel­valuables to campus if they 
Brian Stark, the Leprechaun, announces the victors display their royal garb. The competition at come," he said can, or store them at a neigh­
of the Irish King and Queen contest at an award Theodore's on Thursday included root beer injesting The five point plan includes: bor's house." 
ceremony Friday night. King Bill Sammon of Alumni and Irish jigging. • Registering with the House 
Hall and Queen Meg Davin of Howard Hall proudly Watch program of the South Bend Police Department. see SAFE, page 4 

Security procedures set 
Racism rising on campuses
for Reagan's ND visit 
Associated Press can have a horribly, horribly the-clock protection for a
By JIM RILEY a ticket. Doors will open at 10 
vicious outcome." she said. black activist who repor­
News Editor a.m. 
AMHERST, Mass. -The number of incidents tedly received death threats. 
The Rockne stamps will be 
Twenty years after race logged by the center has A school fraternity was or­
Notre Dame Security has an­available only on the Notre 
riots tore up cities and an jumped from 14 in 1985 to 56 dered to close for 18 months
nounced procedures for the Dame campus the first day of 
assassin killed civil rights last year, she said. for sponsoring a strip show
Reagan visit, and the post of­issue, said Paul Sniadecki, 
leader Martin Luther King They range from racist in which white students
fice has placed Rockne stamps manager of retail sales and ser­
Jr., a rise in campus racial jokes on a talk show at the jeered black dancers. 
and commemorative envelopes vices of the South Bend post of­
incidents is shaking some of University of Michigan last In Massachusetts, some 40
on sale. fice. 
the nation's ivory towers. year to alleged beatings of members of minority groups 
Security has asked students Students can purchase 
"Even from our crude fig­black students by whites at at Hampshire College ended 
to arrive at the Joyce ACC by stamps at the Notre Dame post 
ures we can see a tremen­the University of Massachu­a 9-day takeover of a school
11:30 a.m. for the 12:15 cere­office from 7:30 a.m. to noon 
dous increase in the number setts in 1986 and earlier this building last week to protest 
mony, said Phil Johnson, assis­and 1:30 to 5 p.m. Wednesday. 
of reports of racial incidents year. Last spring, a carica­racism. A similar takeover
tant director of Security. Stu­Stamps will also be available 
in schools," said Eva Sears ture of a black man with a at the nearby University of
dents should enter the north at gates 3 and 10 of the JACC 
of the Center for Democratic bone through his nose was Massachusetts ended late
dome of the JACC through Gate from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Renewal, a Ku Klux Klan drawn on a University of last month after meetings
3, leave any bookbags in a The general public can pur­
watchdog group in Atlanta. Wisconsin fraternity lawn. with the school's chancellor. 
checkroom and pass through a chase stamps at booths set up 
"We're not talking about At the University of Penn­And more than 300
metal detector on their way to by the postal service outside 
juvenile jokes here. We're sylvania last week, campus
the arena. 
talking about something that police maintained round-see RACISM, page 4
Every student must present 
see STAMP, page 4 



Quiet in gulf shat·tered by heavy gunfire attack 
Associated Press Iraqi civilian areas." fired on the U.S. helicopters on
The atta<.J:\. came about :.l:J have been no reported attacks MANAMA, Bahrain,-hours after a U.S. warship, on on shipping by either Iraq or Iran said it launched two mis­Sunday, but there appeared no 
siles into Baghdad and four into doubt that it was Iran, whichpatrol farther north, fired at Iran since Feb. 12.
American helicopters on a other Iraqi cities, including controls many of the oil plat­reconnaissance flight escaped what were believed to be Basra in the south, while forms in the central gulf andIranian speedboats moving But the two warring nationsSunday after drawing heavy Iranian warplanes bombed uses some as supply and
continued Sunday to trade
machine gun fire from an oil toward one of the Navy's of­four cities or towns. staging bases for the armed
savage missile attacks on each
platform and several boats in fshore supply barges. 
Both sides reported civilians boats that patrol the waters
other's cities. The Iraqi News
the central Persian Gulf, U.S. 
The two encounters shat­Agency said Iraq fired five killed or wounded in the missile and attack neutral shipping. 
officials said. 
and bombing attacks, but gave U.S. officials .declined totered one of the longest periods long-range rockets into Tehran identify the oil platform in­Iran was believed to be be­of quiet in the gulf since the and jet fighters bombed 10 no figures. 
volved other than to say it washind the attack. No casualties gulf's so-called "tanker war" Iranian cities in retaliation for The Navy did not say who "in the central gulf." 

were reported. began four years ago. There Iran's "criminal attacks on 
Monday. -M_arch 7, 1988 

page 2 The Observer 


Of Interest 
Tickets for the Rockne Stamp Dedication Wednesday at which President Reagan will_ speak will continue to be available all day today until after the Hardin-Simmons basketball game at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. At Saint Mary's tickets will continue to be available at the O'Laughlin Box Office. -The Observer 
Auditions for "Bent" by Martin Sherman will be held at 7 tonight and Tuesday in the lab theatre of Washington Hall. No experience necessary. -The Observer 
Meet your major department presentations will ta~e place Tuesday. English will be from 4:30 to 5:30p.m. m 104 O'Shaughnessy, theology will be fro~ 7 to 8 p.m. in 341 O'Shaughnessy, and anthropology will be from 8 to 9 
p.m. in 210 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
Ex-F.B.I. agent John Ryan will give a lecture cal~ed ''A Crisis in Conscience'' as part of the Peacemaker Senes of the Institute for International Peace Studies Tuesday in Room 121 of the Law School. He will discuss the cir­cumstances surrounding his firing from the F.B.I. for refusing an order to investigate an antiwar organization. 
-The Observer 
Herb True a nationally renowned humorist, will be speaking on "'fhe Biggest Kept Secret on Being Success­ful" in the Hesburgh Library lounge Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
-The Observer 
ISO Presidential Elections will be held on April 
7. Anyone interested in running must contact e~ther Marianno at 272-6562 or Jozef at 283-3861. All Internatlonal Student Organization members are encouraged to run. 
-The Observer 
James Mundell, director of the Chol-Chol Foundation for Human Development, will be speaking on issues in­volving the operation of a Third World dev_elopment or­ganization tonight at 7 in the Center for Soctal Concerns. The Chol-Chol Foundation is a recipient of the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition funds raised through the Wednes­day Lunch Fast. -The Observer 
Holy Cross Associates applications are due March 25. See Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns or Jane Pitz, HCA Office, Moreau Seminary, for more information. -The Observer 
London Program Reunion will be held tonight for 
senior London alumni in the Library lounge from 7 to 9. 
-The Observer 
Ballroom Dance Club will meet tonight in Stepan Center. Intermediates start at 7 p.m. and beginners start at 8. Remember your money for Willowbrook tonight. -The Observer 
Great Hunger Clean-up sign-ups will be in both dining halls during dinner toaay and Tuesday. Anyone interested in participating in the clean-up, to take place on April16, can sign-up then. -The Observer 
Dismas House application deadline has been extended to March 11. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. If interested, contact Kathy Royer at the Center or at 239-7862. -The Observer 
A mandatory meeting for all those planning the 
Great Escape in 88 will be tonight at 7 in the SUB Office 
of the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Ob­
server 
Dick Rosenthal, Notre Dame athletic director and former C.E.O. of St. Joe Bank, will speak on "Business Ethics, the Business Aspect of Athletics and a Marketable Curriculum for Arts and Letters Students" Tuesday at 7 
p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 

Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Layout ............ Katy Kronenberg Design Assistant . . . ... . . . . . .. .. Alison Cocks 
Typist .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . .. .. . Jenn Conlon Typesetters ............................. Mike Buc ND Day Editors ............. Suzanne Moser ...................................... Mark Ridgeway 
........................................... Janet Herold 
News Editor..... .. .. Cathy Stacy Copy Editor . . ........... Greg Lucas Photographer ..................... Mike Moran Sports Copy Editor............... Pete Gegen SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... John Blasi Business Editor.................. Steve Claeys Accent Copy Editor.. ..... Robyn Simmons Busineso Layout ................ Heidi Traxler 
De 01111nw (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday exc:cpt durin& ClWIIIUid vacation periods. De011eeroer is published by !be students of the University or Notre Dame IUid Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions may be purcbu­cd for $40 per year (S2S per semeslel') by writiq De Ollllnw, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
De 01111nw is a manber or De ~-r.-. All reproduction riahts are raerved. 

AIDS crisis political not medical 
Yet another article on AIDS? 
Admittedly,. not a day seems to pass without "AIDS" appearing in a newspaper headline or in casual conversations. Everyone seems to agree we should stop at nothing to combat this "Plague of the '80's." What amazes me is that despite this, almost nobody seems prepared to do anything about it. 
But then maybe I shouldn't be. For when you think about it, the reason for the current dimen­sions of the AIDS threat is not really medical at all; rather, it's political. 
The biggest obstacle to containing the epidemic, for instance, may be its most fre­quent victims. 
A week doesn't seem to pass under the Dome, for example, when someone tries to introduce "homophobia" into our vocabulary, which as far as I can tell means "fear of man." Yet while AIDS has already killed 50,000 Americans and may have infected another two million, anyone who tries to suggest that lives may be saved by curbing homosexual conduct is instantly con­demned as "homophobic." Using this rationale, we should then condemn any attempts at saving lives by curbing alcoholism as "drunk-driver­phobic." The most recent move by the gov­ernment illustrates not only that our national policy is incoherent but also that it may have degenerated into a parody of the Theatre of the Absurd. 
Last week Surgeon General Everett Koop tentatively declared we will thwart the growing epidemic by issuing free sterilized needles to intravenous drug abusers. 
All I can say is that if this is the best the government can do, then I think overpopulation will definitely not be one of our great problems for the coming century. 
Unfortunately, this action is only typical of policy being undertaken by men obviously more concerned about getting reelected than saving lives. 
True, the Reagan administration has given AIDS prevention a top priority in the budget, spending almost a half billion dollars on re­search. Yet HIV--the AIDS virus--remains alive and well. In fact, despite all these efforts, Koop is now predicting AIDS will continue to afflict America well into the next century at least and may become the leading cause of death. 
Then, too, many place their hopes in the con­dom. Unfortunately for the advocates of this view, the condom has shown itself to be the SDI of the Sexual Revolution: it's leaky, and all it takes is one to get through. All of which really should not have come as much of a surprise, since Planned Parenthood, after all, cited the ineffectiveness of condoms as a justification for abortion. 
For the facts call your local Red Cross. or write' AIDS 
+
American Red Cross ~ W!shington, DC 20006 


BORN TO LEAD? 

You know you have it in you, and now you can prove it. If you have 60 semester hours from a regionally accred~ed college, and can achieve a high score in a special apt~ude test, you're only 22 weeks away from the gold bars of a Second Ueutenant in the Army Reserve. To prove your leadership, you'll attend an B·week 
Basic Training Course, and then go on to a 14·week Officer Candidate School (OCS). H's a challenge. Tough mentally. Tough physically. Hack it and you'll get your commission as an officer in the Army Reserve, and continue training in a branch Officer Basic Course. Then you'll return home to serve in a nearby reserve unit -·usually one weekend a month 
and two weeks annual training. 

Now you're a leader. You've earned it. And rt's this 
kind of leadarship that civilian employers lool< lor 
when seeking new executives. 

If you have 60 semester hours, the abil~, and the 
confidenca In yourself, you sound like OCS material. 
Call: 
SGT Mahome or SGT Cheek at 234-4187 Be All You Can Be. ARMY RESERVE. 

Chris Julka 
Assistant News Editor 


All of our efforts so far have thus been as successful as the potions, nostrums and spells devised in the 14th century to stop the Plague. 
Ironically, however, the solution to the AIDS crisis may already be within our grasp, if only we would allow it. This is because like the Plague, AIDS is primarily a problem of pure hygiene. Let me give a concrete example. 
Last summer when I worked as a reporter intern, I discovered that some anonymous AIDS testing centers are not really so. At hospitals in particular, all cases of AIDS must be re­ported to the state because AIDS is a contagious disease. 
It thus seems to me that there should be no reason why health agencies couldn't use this data to trace the spread of the disease, and thus prevent carriers from continuing to multiply the number of victims. 
In this way, instead of waiting for a cure that may never come, as in the case of hepatitus, we could nip the epidemic while it is still in the bud. 
Yet as I said before, the problem is really political, not medical. Such a solution would inevitably elicit cries against Big Brother or, let us not be sexist, Big Sister. Then, too, there would be the usual condemnations of "homophobia" and "lack of compassion." 
So I apologize for my lack of compassion and homophobia. Let's continue our present laissez­faire policies and let more people die. 



FREE TOPPINGS! 
Any Size Pizza With Unlimited Toppings For The Cheese Pizza Price: I 0" -$4.50 
14" -$6.50 
5:30p.m. to 12:30 a.m. 

--------------------------------~------------------------------------~---------·--­

Housing help exists for students who look 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN 
Staff Reporter 
While resources currently exist in the Northeast Neigh­borhood for off-campus stu­dents, some feel that the Notre Dame administration could be providing more off-campus support. 
"Some sort of off-campus co­ordinator should live and work in the Northeast Neighbor­hood," said Sean Coleman, councilman-at-large, last Friday at the Neighborhood Housing Service office. "They (the administration) need to give the University a real off­campus presence." 
The Notre Dame off-campus housing office is currently lo­cated in the Administration Building. 
Coleman said that Notre Dame students have helped the neighborhood in the past through programs such as Dis­mas House and several com­munity projects. However, a more prominent University off­campus housing service and existing neighborhood organi­zations "can complement each other," Coleman said. 
The Northeast Neighborhood has seen constructive input from several sources at Notre Dame, though, including Assis­tant Vice President for Student Affairs Sister Jean Lenz, Direc­tor of Community Relations James Roemer, and several student government officials, Coleman said. 
Many students do not realize that local neighborhood ser­vices are also available for them, said Jake Webster, chair­man of the Northeast Neigh­borhood Advisory Commission. "Most of the off-campus stu­dents have no idea we're here for them," he said. 
The Neighborhood Housing Services office, located on Notre Dame A venue just south of Notre Dame Apartments, of­fers services to all neighbor­hood residents. "We offer in­spection services to residents, and also do many rehabilita­tion projects over the sum­mer,'' said Anne Mannix, exec­utive director. 
Housing Services also offers low-interest loans and realtor services to neighborhood resi­dents, Mannix said. 
Students can also check on landlords, housing conditions, and neighbors at the Northeast Neighborhood Center in the same building. "The people in the neighborhood reaJly know Three-time heavyweight champion 

each other," Mannix said. Mohammed Ali made a guest appearance at the Ben-autographs, Ali was quite the celebrity. 

New dictionary defines slang 
Associated Press 
MADISON, N.J.-Since the New Dictionary of American Slang first publication in late 1986, it has sold more than 25,000 copies, almost a best sel­ler by reference book stand­ards. 
The dictionary is a testament to the wit, anger and vulgarity of society and the vocabularies people adopt to identify with their peers and disassociate themselves from others. 
Society couldn't exist without slang, says Robert Chapman, the book's editor and a retired professor from Drew Univer­sity. 
"Slang is more than anything else the language of rebellion and self-assertion. It's our defense against institutions we reckon are threatening us," says the linguist. "It's a neces­sary defense of our ego as we mature, whether it's an ethnic group or teen-agers rebelling against their parents. 
"We live in hierarchies, and a self which merely accepted and obeyed would be a per­manent wimp." 
Worried dweebs-creeps or nerds -will find plenty of words in the slang dictionary to get hip. And it is replete with enough obscene words to shock even veteran cursers. 
Chapman defines slang as a style of language that has a much stronger emotional im­pact than standard words. "It's really an idiom of feeling, not of sense. And the basic emotion is cockiness," he says. 
Here are samples of the words and phrases that can be found in the New Dictionary of American Slang: 
-Beezer: the nose. 

-Beggar's velvet: the tufts and whorls of dust that accum­ulate under furniture. 
-Big noise: important news; 
NOW, FOR A LIMITED TIME! 



FREE 
TANNING SESSIONS WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHASE! call us today! 
Stock up for Spring Break! 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS/ ST. RD. 23//PHONE 272-7653 
an important person or most in­fluential person. -Blivit: anything suprfluous or annoying. 
-Bodice-ripper: a romantic­erotic novel, especially one with a historical plot. 
-Brain-fade: stuporous boredom; tedium. -Chiphead: a computer en­thusiast. -Cut didoes: to frolic, horse around. -Double-bagger: a very ugly person. -Drooly: very attractive; a popular and attractive boy. 
-Mallie: a person, especially a young person, who frequents shopping malls for sociability and excitement. 
-Plain vanilla: unadorned; simple; basic. -Ultraswoopy: very spectac­ular, glamorously styled. 
-Win the fur-lined bathtub: to deserve a spectacularly use­less award; merit nothing more than something absurd. 
-X-double-minus: very much inferior, wretched. -Zhlub: a coarse person; a boorish man. -Zod: an eccentric and ob­noxious person; weird. -Zoid: a non-conforming per­son; a misfit. 
of the world gal Bouts Finals Friday night. Swamped for 
Refugees live in fear 
By JANET HEROLD News Staff 
Although the United States gives about $700 million in aid to Jose Napoleon Duarte's "democratic" gov­ernment in El Salvador, the money's use is controlled by this Notre Dame graduate's military leaders, said Fa­ther Jack Martin, who has lived among El Salvador refugees for the past two years. 
The El Salvador govern­ment actively pursues a dis­information campaign to deceive the world of the regime's democratic na­ture, Martin said in a lecture Friday. United States' citizens do not realize what is going on down there, said the Maryknoll missionary. 
Thousands of El Salvador refugees live in refugee camps in Honduras sur­rounded by barbed wire fences, he said. Unless they are returning to El Salvador they aren't allowed to leave or they will be shot, he added. 
----..-------------­
--~

It-­
I
1 I I 1 
,

• ' JB ·ROBINSON t
.•



t -JEWELERS t 
\

tl lOo/o Off ~ I
t. 
your first charge purchase 
I II

t or next add on j,with new credit application 
t ,
University Park Mall 

II_ ----------•
~­
The refugees want to return home, he said. 
"(They) want to go back home, to plant their crops, and to raise their children," but, they fear for their lives, Martin said. 
Almost every refugee has suffered a loss of a member of their immediate family from the violence in their country, he said. These refugees look to the United States for help. 
Quoting a letter from a refugee woman, Martin said, "I beg you that you help us, the life of Duarte is to kill and to torture." The El Salvador people don't need any more military sup­plies, the letter said. They need medicine, it said. 
The most immediate prob­lem the refugees face right now, Martin said, is keeping international representa­tives, like Martin, in the camps. If the missionaries are forced to leave, the refugees could be subject to harsh Honduran military rule, Martin said. 
IAMERICAN



f=w. 

Rouo'sHair 
-~ 
'. 
531 N. Micll9rn SC:. Phone IJJ-4957 
Monday, March 7, 1988 

page 4 The Observer 


Robertson undecided


Security Beat ~ 
on paying court costs 
2 p.m. A Notre Dame professor
Saturday, March 5 Sunday, March 6
reported that a window on the third 
is a share of some very modest Associated Press

floor of O'Shaughnessy had been 
costs, but McCloskey was 

3 a.m. An Alumni Senior Club shattered. 4:37 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident 
WASHINGTON­talking about $400,000 in legal
employee reported the theft of a picture I: 15 p.m. A resident of Howard reported the theft of his class ring from 
Republican presidential hope­fees."
and frame that was hanging on the east reported that someone had kicked in the his unlocked room sometime between wall. Loss is valued at $50. door panel of her car sometime between March 4 and March 6. His loss is es­
ful Pat Robertson said Sunday Under terms of the dismis­9 p.m. A South Bend resident was 8 and II p.m. on March 4. Damage is timated at $383. 
he hasn't decided whether to sal, Robertson must pay court cited for excessive speed on Dorr Road estimated at $200. I :20 p.m. A Security Officer 
pay court costs incurred during fees, printing costs and court 
She was cited driving 46 mph in a 30 reported that a Greenhouse window was 
his libel suit against a former reporters' fees, but not McClos­
mph zone. 5:43 a.m. A Saint Mary's student shattered and several pots inside were 
congressman, although the key's attorney's fees. McClos­
was issued a citation for illegally en­broken. 
payment remains a condition key said in an interview Satur­
4:50 p.m. A South Bend resident tering campus. 9 a.m. A pine tree was apparently was issued a citation for excessive 3: II a.m. Security assisted the torn down by vandals sometime 
for dismissal of the case. day that he would file a motion speed on Juniper Road for traveling 44 Notre Dame Fire Dept. in responding Saturday night. The tree held a bird's 
U.S. District Judge Joyce or a separate suit to recover mph in a 25 mph zone. to a false alarm at Stanford Hall. nest and two eggs. 
Hens Green agreed Friday to the expenses he had incurred. dismiss the $35 million lawsuit If Robertson rejects Green's Robertson filed against former dismissal, he must then go to 
Rep. Paul McCloskey Jr., R­court in Washington, D.C., on Calif., provided the GOP can­Tuesday to begin the trial, didate pay the court costs, es­which was expected to last timated to be between $10,000 about three weeks. and $20,000. Robertson said the scheduled 
"I haven't even had a chance start of the trial on Super to talk to my lawyers about it," Tuesday unfairly forces him Robertson said on NBC-TV's to choose between his cam­"Meet the Press." "I don't paign for the GOP nomination know what I'm going to pay Mr. and trying to vindicate his per­McCloskey's court costs. There sonal honor. 



THBYELLOW SUBMARINE 
''Nicest Buns In Town" 
HAM SALAMI CORNED BEEF PEPPERONI VEGETARIAN MEATBALL TURKEY TUNA SALAD 
FRENOIDIP CHICKEN SALAD PIZZA ANDSPEOALS PASTRAMI PEPPERONI-MEATBALL
Practicing for the 'Big M' 
ASSORTED CUTS 
After painting the boat house, Pete Wall, a member abound for those in possession of such acquired of the NO Sailing Club, perfects his technique of skills. The Italian -Ham, Salami, Pepperoni flipping burgers. Summer employment opportunities Oub Combo-Roast Beef, Ham, Turkey
--~--------------------------------------------­
attempts to recruit blacks and Super Combo -Ham, Salami, Honey Loaf keep them in college. 

Stamp Racism 
ALL ON Wlii"m OR WHOLEWHEAT BUNS
"Many whites come to 

BAKED FRESH n-tE DAY YOU EAT TiiEM
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 campus assuming everyone is 
WITii NO PRESERVATIVES
the same and they see special

Dartmouth students rallied
the Alumni-Senior Club from 8 minority this and special ---SEASONED TO PLEASE YOUK TASTE---­
in Hanover, N.H., last week
a.m. to 3:30p.m. minority that, black centers LE'ITUCE. ONION, TOMATO, ITAllAN DRESSING,
to protest bigotry while here and Hispanic centers MAYONAISE, YELLOW AND BROWN MUSTARD, ANDpolice guarded the offices of
First-day envelopes and there,'' said Reginald Wilson, 
YOUR CHOICE OF CHEEZE -MOZZARELLA. SWISS,
a conservative weekly
first-oay covers will also be director of the American Coun­
AMERICAN, OR PROVOLONE

publication that launched
available. cil on Education's office of 
ALSO AVAIUBLE AT NO EXTRA Q-IARCE 

stinging attacks on a black pro­minority concerns. "You get a fessor. sense of resentment: 'what is PICKLES, BLACK OUVES, SALT, PEPPER.
People can stick their stamps he getting that for?"' JALAPENO AND BANANA PEPPERS, OREGANO, RED on almost anything and get the "It was just a matter of time Fueling the fire is a conser­HOfSAUCEpostmark printed on it, includ­before things began erupting,'' 
vative federal administration

ing programs and "probably said Joseph Lowery, president FRESH SALAD-Try Our New Super Salad
that opposes affirmative action 

even footballs," said of the Southern Christian Lead­
and backs tax breaks for DRINKS .55 -.65 -.75 -LOO
Sniadecki. ership Conference in Atlanta. 
private schools, black leaders 

Pepsi, Diet. Mounrain Dew, Teem, Dr. Pepper, Grape,
"I have sensed a smoldering,Parking behind the JACC will growing distrust on campuses say. Orange, Upper 10, Lemonade, Fruit Punch, Icc Tea, be restricted from midnight for a number of years," he Root Beer
"You have to remember that
Tuesday to late Wednesday af­said. "I think emotions have this president has been in office 
WITH SERVICE THArS READY WHEN YOU ARE
ternoon, Johnson said. Parking run from dissatisfaction to dis­half these kids' lives," said Wil­
will be available in the lot south gust and from disappointment MONDAY-SATURDAY 10am-10pm
son. "I don't doubt his conser­
of the JACC <Red East) and in to outrage." vative agenda has had a tre­SUNDAY 11am-8pmthe lots south of the stadium Black leaders say recent ra­mendous impact on them."
and north of the Alumni-Senior cial unrest is rooted in an ap­But there are signs that 
AT PRICES YOU CAN TRUST

Club. 
parent lack of civil rights prog­many students are resisting ress in the last two decades. racism. 8" Footl.ong And 2' up to 6' "We've come to the 20-year $2.00-$2.99 $3.00 -$3.99 At speciat)5rices 
anniversary of the riots of 1967 More than 1,400 blacks and and the assassination of Dr. whites rallied at the University Come In -Or Call 272-HIKE 

Safe 
continued from page 1 
Martin Luther King and I think of Michigan last year to 
We Deliver Within 3 Miles-$6.00 Minimum Order
Judge also emphasized the people are saying, 'Wait a min­denounce racist acts on use of the House Watch pro­ute, things haven't improved campus. More than 500 whites 
N gram. "The House Watch ser­for blacks,"' said Samuel 
stood in bone-chilling cold at 
vice is available all the time. Myers, president of the Na­
University of Massachusetts 





;p.E

The more people that use the tional Association for Equal last month in support of the 125 
system, the more South Bend Opportunity in Higher Educa­
students holding a building.
police spend time in the North­tion, which represents 117 east Neighborhood." predominantly black colleges. Most white backlash appears "The best patrol, though, is to be coming at large univer­18109 SR 23-JUST WEST OF IRONWOD-272-4453 
your neighbor," said Judge. ''Everyone sees the police com­ing."  .Black leaders say the embers of racism have been ignited by  sities with a large population of inner-city blacks, Wilson said. ---------­ 
-----­ 


Bush stumps Dole in Missouri; Dukakis strong 
Associated Press One day after Bush swept to 
victory in the South Carolina 
Vice President George Bush primary, Dole campaign barnstormed across Missouri manager Bill Brock conceded on Sunday, invading Bob Dole's the vice president holds a "2-1 strongest Super Tuesday state lead or a 3-1 lead in virtually in an apparent bid to nail down every Southern state." But a spectacular sweep. Michael Brock said his man would win Dukakis looked strong in polls some delegates on Tuesday and in Florida and Texas as the run better in the Midwestern Democratic presidential rivals and Western states that follow. blazed away with negative Sen. Albert Gore Jr. of Ten­commercials. nessee insisted the late Demo-
Troops may pull out, but Soviets still win 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -When Soviet troops withdraw from Afghanistan, as now appears likely, they will leave behind a Soviet intrastructure ensuring Moscow's influence in the stra­tegic region once coveted by the czars. 
The Soviets are training Af­ghan military officers. A soviet adviser has been placed in every ministry. And 10,000 Af­ghan youths and kindergar­teners are living in the Soviet Union, establishing what the Soviets hope will be lifelong ties with Moscow. 
Afghanistan's financial debt to the Soviet Union alone-
more than $2 billion -appears to ensure political attention to Soviet needs. And close trade relations, based on Soviet ex­ploitation of Afghan mineral resources, will also bring the two countries closer. 
While most Western experts say Moscow has lost the costly and unpopular 8-year-old war, some suggest that by other means the Soviet Union finally may have brought unruly Af­ghanistan into its orbit ­thereby winning a battle in what Rudyard Kipling called in the late 1800s "the Great Game." 
Most observers agree that the Soviet Union won't simply admit defeat and walk away from Afghanistan, leaving nothing but a vacuum after years of integration into the So­viet economy and indoctrina­tion of Afghans of all ages. 
The Soviets are simply switching the struggle into dif­ferent fields. 
The Soviet Union intervened in Afghanistan in December 1979 to aid a faltering Marxist regime. After eight years of a bloody stalemate pitting the Red Army against Moslem guerrillas and their Chinese, American and Pakistani back­ers, it has decided to leave. 
The latest and possibly final round of talks on Afghanistan began last week in Geneva be­tween Afghanistan and Pakis­tan, which negotiates on behalf of the anti-Soviet resistance. There is optimism about a po­litical settlement this month. 
The Soviet Union has made major concessions in talks, dis­tancing itself from the Afghan government of Najib. 


Theology 
a/ tlu' University fljNotre DaniR 
Soph,orrWres 
arulF~ 
Consider a major in Theology or Theology as a second major 

Come and discuss the possibilities on Tuesday, March 8 7:00-8:00 p.m. Room 341 0 'Shaughnessy 
cratic tide was flowing his way, and he picked up one very im­portant vote -that of influen­tial Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia. Nunn, who was leaving for a week-long trip to the Soviet Union, said in a statement that he cast an absentee ballot for Gore because "his views come closest to my own views." 
Aides to Democratic Rep. Richard Gephardt, meanwhile, already were at work trying to minimize the impact of a big Super Tuesday success for Dukakis. 
"It could be that he'll come out of Super Tuesday the front­runner," conceded one aide to the Missouri congressman. But he quickly added that Gephardt will win enough delegates to remain a healthy challenger. 
Dukakis made the pilgrimage to the Plains, Ga., home of former President Jimmy Carter. Although Carter is remaining neutral in the Democratic presidential race, he said, "I think there's a great deal of campatibility between my basic attitude towards gov­ernment and that of Gov. 
Dukakis." The former Georgia governor noted that both he and Dukakis had executive experi­ence, knew how to balance a budget and how to deal with a legislature. 


Irish chorus line 
The ND cheerleaders and leprechaun pose for bas­ketball fans in formal attire. Hats were not required, 
Catholics resist communists 
dina] Frantisek Tomasek. Several hundred chanted "We want bishops," "We want reli­gious freedom," and "We want the pope." 
"Long live the Holy Father," shouted the crowd outside Tomasek's residence, which adjoins the castle where Husak lives. The presidential flag was flying, indicating Husak was home during the unusual and massive demonstration. 
The two-hour Mass was cel­ebrated in honor of Blessed Agnes, a 13th century Czech princess who is to be canonized by the Vatican later this year. The service was the culmina­tion of a pilgrimage by Cat­holics from the Czech lands of Bohemia and Moravia. 
PUT YOUR LINGUISTIC SKILLS ON THE LINE 
If you're about to become a college graduate with a degree in foreign languages, here·s your chance to "talk" yourself into a great career opportunity. The U. S. Army is seeking linguists, both male and female. If you successfully complete training, you'll be putting your experience to work while earning a good salary to start, with good opportunities for quick 

advancement,  plus  food,  
lodging,  medical and  dental  
cere.  

lfs an opportunity that could lead to several civilian career possibilities, and give you a real edge on life. Contact your local Army Recruiter lor more Information. 
SGT Larry Holloway 
2~187 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

Associated Press 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia-­
Thousands of Roman Cat­holics packed a cathedral Sun­day shouting,"We want religious freedom." in a sign of growing religious resistance to the communist government. 
The Mass at the St. Vitus Ca­thedral, across the street from the home of President Gustav Husak, drew an estimated 8,000 people in one of the biggest re­ligious services in the capital since the communist takeover in 1948. 
Several dozen plainclothes security officers were posted inside and outside the cathe­dral. Police had arrested 13 leading dissidents and religi­ous activists on Friday, ap­parently to prevent them from attending the Mass, and briefly detained seven other dissi­dents. 
After the Mass, about 1,000 people gathered beneath the balcony of the residence of Car-

but our mascot choose to adorn himself from head to toe with the luck o' the Irish. 
Monday, March 7, 1988

page 6 The Observer 
Crash hearing probes turbulence, pilot inexperience 
Associated Press tional Airport in a snowstorm. Ted Lopatkiewicz said Friday. the end of the year. NTSB at cold weather operations, de­The aircraft, a DC-9, broke into "There's no evidence of mal­board member. Joseph Nall will icing procedures, the perfor­
DENVER -Investigators three pieces as it slammed into function before the loss of con­be chairman of the board of in­mance of the DC-9, flight crew holding hearings this week on a runway. trol of the aircraft," he said. quiry, on which three other training and scheduling," he the crash of a Continental Air­Officials will question 29 wit­The hearing "will not be like NTSB staff members will said. "We might also look at lines jet that killed 28 people nesses and survivors during a a courtroom case," Lopat­serve, Lopatkiewicz said. the crash fire and rescue opera­will be looking at ice buildup four day hearing on the crash kiewicz stressed in an inter­tions." on the wings, turbulence from that begins Tuesday. The in­view from Washington. "This Witnesses, Lopatkiewicz The crash of Flight 1713, another plane and inexperi­vestigation may also look at is not an adversarial proceed­said, include survivors, air which trapped some of the vic­enced pilots as possible causes. fire and rescue operations that ing. It is to elicit information. traffic controllers, members of tims in the wreckage for more 
Fifty-four other people were followed the crash. There will be no finding at the the flight crew, FAA represen­than six hours, was the first in­injured Nov. 15 when Flight Engine failure has been ruled end of the hearing." tatives and rescue crew mem­volving commercial fatalities 1713 flipped over while taking out as a contributing cause in A final report, he said, would bers. at Stapleton in more than 26 off from Stapleton Interna-the crash. NTSB spokesman probably be released around "We probably will be looking years. 


Thousands riot in Tibet for freedom from China 
Tibetans stoned and torched a police station and police 

BEIJING -Thousands of opened fire. rioting Tibetans set bonfires in Chinese authorities had con­Lhasa's streets and several sidered canceling the Great people were killed during more Prayer Festival to prevent vio­than 12 hours of clashes with lence, but instead gave it heavy police, according to reports publicity to show the troubled reaching Beijing Sunday. Himalayan region had 
The protesters were demand­returned to normal. ing Tibet's independence from But China also flooded Lhasa China. The riots came at the with police, prompting many close of a major Buddhist fes­monks to boycott the festival. tival in Tibet's capital. Attendance by pilgrims was 
The dead included one also down, according to Tibetan monk and two Chinese Tibetan sources and police officers, the reports Westerners who observed the said. Calm was restored late festival this year and in the Saturday and no further vio­past. lence was reported Sunday. The reports from the West­
A Chinese television reporter ern sources, who spoke on con­who arrived Sunday in Beijing dition of anonymity, differed from Lhasa said he had not sharply from the official Xin­heard of any deaths but that an hua News Agency's terse ac­undetermined number of count Saturday. It said that an A spring touch up The Observer I Michael Moran monks and police had been unspecified number of burned in the blazes. "agitators" attacked a police 
Associated Press 

Patti Losinski applies finishing touches to the freshly becoming more attractive to outdoor enthusiasts as 
It was the first anti-Chinese station and the office of a
painted boat house as part of the NO Sailing Club's warmer winds blow our way. 
violence reported in Tibet since government-controlled Bud­


project to prepare it for the Spring. The lakes are 

Expected Soviet protest attended by only eight 
Associated Press toward unofficial orgamza­
tions. 
MOSCOW -Police detained Anatoly Petrunovsky, of the four people and used religious organization "Brot­snowplows Sunday to prevent herhood in Dialogue," said the a protest against the legacy of demonstration was called tc Josef Stalin on the 35th anniver­protest the legacy of Stalin. sary of the dictator's death, Under Soviet leader Mikhail witnesses said. Gorbachev, the state-run press 
The witnesses said about 60 and officials have been increas­plainclothes police were on ingly critical of Stalin's role in hand to prevent the protest in fostering a stifling bureau­October Square, which is cracy and a secret police appa­dominated by a large statue of ratus that carried out purges Soviet founder Vladimir Lenin. in which millions died. Only about eight people came But Gorbachev has defended to the square to protest. the industrialization and 
The noon rally had been agricultural collectivization scheduled by several groups drives carried out under Stalin, that have sprouted under the as well as his role as military Kremlin's more liberal policy leader in World War II. 
Oct. 1, when about 2,000 angry dhist association. 
'Flag day' marked by beating 
Associated Press tion with the beating of two Askar refugee camp in the 
bound Arabs in the West West Bank about 40 miles 
JERUSALEM-Israeli Bank city of Nablus last north of Jerusalem after soldiers killed two Arab month. 
shots were fired at troops.teen-agers Sunday and The beating, which lasted Soldiers were searching for 
dragged an injured boy from more than 30 minutes, was a second Palestinian who his sick bed during violent taped by CBS News and fled. sieges at two hospitals in the sparked international The Palestine Press Ser­occupied territories, offi­
criticism of the crackdown vice identified the victim as 
cials said. 
in the West Bank and Gaza Khalid al Ardah, 17. It Arab protesters hoisted Strip, which Israel occupied marked only the second time hundreds of outlawed Pales­after the 1967 Middle East Palestinians used guns since 
tinian flags to mark a PLO­war. 
the uprising began. 

organized "Flag Day." Arab Sunday's fatalities reports said soJdiers shot brought to 83 the number of In Mazraa Sharqiya in the and killed a donkey wearing Palestinians killed since vio­West Bank about 15 miles 
both Palestinian and Israeli lence erupted in the occu­northeast of Jerusalem, flags. pied territories on Dec. 8, ac­Ayman Salim Al-Jad, 18, was 
The army said an officer cording to U.N. figures. shot in the chest after and two soldiers were in-· protesters threw stones and dieted on charges of ag­The army said one Pales­raised Palestinian flags, gravated assault in connec-tinian was fatally shot in the hospital officials said. 
RESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 


CONSULTING WEEK MARCH 6-11, 1988 
An opportunity to have your last minute questions answered before you must declare your college program 
See the March Freshman DEAN's NEWSLETTER for scheduling details 
DON'T MISS THE OPPORTUNITY 
FRESHMEN_FRESHMEN_FRESHMEN 




Viewpoint 
page 7

Monday, March 7, 1988 
Editor's Note: The following is a parody of Jonathan Swift's "A Modest Proposal." Mr. Fogarty has no working relationship with Common Sense. 
These are the times that try women's souls, and men's too, for it's midnight in America and the world. The U.S. gov­ernment is in the hands of a far-right demagogue like Reagan, and the Vatican is in the viselike grip of a Cromagnon, sexist Pope named John Paul II. Together this dynamic duo of reaction and its supporters have managed to stifle the progressive forces of social justice (and re-invent poverty), along with their narrow­minded shouts for "tr&ditional values" and "morality." As a result, the lives of us radicals in the '80s have been nasty, brutish and short. Consequently, we here at Common Sense believe that something must be done to finally remove the blight of ReaganPope con­servatism from the earth. 
Glenn Fogarty 
the american vision 

We have devised a cheap, easy and effectual plan to accomplish this task, the advantages of which are obvious and many, as well as of the highest im­portance. Our friends at Pravda last year revealed that the CIA had developed a bomb that, when dropped, kills only minorities, like a selective neutron warhead (This is most cer­tainly true, for the CIA is a racist, fas­cist institution, with probable ties to the Papacy as well. The CIA, by the way, also invented the AIDS virus in its labs.) Now, we have just received word from a very knowing source (at our fa­vorite neo-Stalinist magazine, The Na­tion) that the Soviet Union has developed a similar bomb, but one that kills only Republicans, conservative Democrats, the Pope and Papists, 

'A Modest Proposal' to consider 
homophobes, male chauvinists and anybody else we radicals don't partic­ularly like. Such news is a godsend to the oppressed masses of the world who have struggled for so long under the heels of these narrow-minded and anti­progressive people. 
We here at Common Sense feel that, with widespread use of this "Social Jus­tice" bomb, we can eliminate the cold, famine, filth and bogus "morality" (all the world's problems), that were in­vented by and are currently sustained by two groups in particular. Over the ages, these two groups have been the Papists and Reagan supporters, with their multifarious subgroupings of Cromagnon right-to-lifers, homop­hobes, sexists and pro-Israeli fascists. They really, so to speak, have to go. Imagine it: a world without Reagan, free enterprise, the Vatican, injunc­tions against birth control and abortion, standards of medieval morality and loyalty to some dogmatic fat man in Rome. Sounds wonderful, doesn't it? 
Some scrupulous people might be apt to censure the widespread use of the "Social Justice" bomb (although very injustly) as a little boarding on cruelty, which we confess, has always been with us the strongest objection against any project. But it is much better in the long rnn that some bad people may simply "vanish" for the sake of the proletario.n masses yearning for jus­tice. The Soviet Union could use its mis­siles to deliver the joyful surprise to targets around the world. This action would accomplish two goals. First, it would get rid of the few existing Soviet missiles for a good cause, and secondly, it would eliminate the reactionaries who currently run or support war­mongering nations like the United States and its NATO proxies. Peace and justice would then reign supreme. 
Again, as we said, the advantages of this proposal are obvious and many. With Republicans and conservative 
Democrats suddenly "vanished," eco­nomic. inequality would simply disap­pear, since those people have been the main impediments to a society based on socialism and the practice of free love. In addition, as we have already observed, the bombs would greatly les­sen among us the number of Papists, with whom we are yearly over-run (since they choose to follow that silly injunction against birth control and abortion) and who stay at home believ­ing in "the American way" and the ob­solete notion of the "nuclear family." With the Pope gone as well, the joys of heresy would finally be free and open. The bombs could also be used in spe­cific circumstances, such as against the evil capitalist peasants in Nicaragua who refuse to relinquish their land to the loving Sandinista-forced collec­tivization program, or in Ethiopia, where the peasants don't like it when their food is given to the good and loving People's Army. 
What kind of society (after all the bad people are gone) do we here at Common Sense envision? A communist society, of course. But there's a distinction! Our 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something in­tellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556. 
Ooonesbury 

communism is feminist, androgynous communism. We haven't yet figured out how we could reproduce in such a great society, except through artificial means. But then, with the Pope gone, there wouldn't be anyone to bash us about the supposed "immorality" of in­vitro fertilization! Free love would rule, and the joy of abortion would be gratis to all comers. Our religion would continue in the great faith tradition of Friedrich Nietzsche, Hegel and Madalyn Murray O'Hair. Perhaps the best summation is offered by our own beloved columnist, Ann Pettifer: "Neanderthals were peace-loving feminists, gentle herbivores who spent their days painting in caves and their nights in frolicking and love." In short, we want a Neanderthal society. 
Thus, you can see, we have based our ideas for a new society and its attain­ment on purely sane and just prin­ciples. Anyone who is committed to so­cial justice will most certainly suppport our proposal. Glenn Fogarty is enrolled in the Fresh­man Year of Studies and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O. Box Q 
a concern for justice in the first place, 
U.S. foreign policy rather than on a concern for maintain­ing friendly dictators, we may haveinconsistent found ourselves in a better position. The Dear Editor: Sandinista government has made life 
In his Feb. 24 Viewpoint article on better for many Nicaraguans than it "The evils of using food as a weapon," was under Somoza. Glenn Fogarty truly exposed a major Like so many narrow-minded con­injustice in world affairs, but paradoxi­servatives, Mr. Fogarty reveals the cally attacked U.S. Catholic "justice flaw of seeing Third World conflicts as and peace" groups, who have a major battles between capitalism and Mar­role in the famine relief in Ethiopia. xism, as opposed to battles for justice. Like many conservative-minded indi­Another thing that comes across from viduals, Mr. Fogarty misunderstands his article is that Marxism is inherently and misrepresents the position of these evil. Such a view reflects a prejudice groups. Their contention is not and an unwillingness to concede the mot.ivated by full support for the San­serious moral problems that are in­dinista government, but rather by the volved in a capitalistic society. inappropriateness or downright im­The most viable course of action is morality of U.S. efforts to destabilize for the U.S. government to work with the government of Nicaragua by the Sandinistas. But how can we work financing mercenaries using tactics with a government guilty of so many similar to those used by terrorits. The abuses? The same way we can work leaders of the Contras are old members with the governments of Israel and of Somaza's National Guard. If the South Africa, whose abuses of human United States had not supported the rights are just as great as those of the Somoza government, which abused Sandinistas. power and was content to let its people squa.der in poverty, a revolution in Robert Raphael Nicar~a may not have occurred. Grace Hall That is, if our policy had been based on February 29, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the Day 
"Man is a special being, and if left to himself, in an isolated condition, would be one of the we a k e s t creatures; but associated with his kind, he works wonders." 
Daniel Webster 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Oblelver is 1t1e independent newspaper publilhed by the students of the Univeralty of Notre OIIT\8 duLac and Saint Mary'a College. It does not necessarily reflect the policin of the administration of either lnatltullon. The News Ia reported u accurately and objec:11vely u possible. Unsigned editorialS repreMnt the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column pr-nt the vieWS of their authors. Column ap~~ce is available to all members ollhe school community, and the free axpreuion of varying opinions on campus, through letters. 11 encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker 
Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider 
Managing Editor ............................ Maril Pankowski 
Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Kitlefl 
News Editor ....................................Chris Beclrwski 
Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark 
News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley 
Production Manager ...................... Melissa Wamke 
Viewpoint Editor..................................Ctnis Murphy 
Projects Manager ......................... Marl< Mclaughlin
Spom Editor .................................. Oennia Corrigan 
Systems MaMJger ............................ Shawn SeKIOn 
Founded November 3, 1881 
-------~------·----~--------------------------­


~---~--~ 
page 8 




Accent 

SUSAN BUCKLEY accent writer 

D
oes a full moon affect you 
in strange ways? Does it 

awaken in you strong passions 
and compel you to behave 
daringly? Does it give you new 
vitality and new life? 
Moonstruck4 
If the moon makes you feel 

this way, film director Norman 
Jewison would say you were 
"Moonstruck." This theme and 
a huge full moon over Brook­
lyn compose the backdrop for 
his romantic comedy starring 
Cher and Nicolas Cage. 
In "Moonstruck," Cher plays 

a 37-year-old Italian widow who 
unexpectedly falls in love with 
her fiance's younger brother, 
Nicolas Cage. The film is 
promoted as a "sophisticated 
romantic comedy." Yet, al­
though it may be romantic and 
a comedy, "Moonstruck" does 
not really deserve to be des­
cribed as sophisticated. 
Loretta Castorini (Cher) lives 

with her parents, Cosmo 
(Vincent Gardenia) and Rose 
(Olympia Dukak.is), and with 
her elderly grandfather (Feodor 
Chaliapin) in a Brooklyn 
brownstone. Loretta is a super­
stitious woman who is con­
vinced that the death of her 
first husband seven years ear­
lier was "bad luck" caused by 
their not being married in a 
church ceremony. 
When Johnny Cammareri 

asks her to marry him over 
dinner in an Italian restaurant, 
Loretta is determined to avoid 
any bad luck this time by 
having a proper engagement 
and wedding. She makes 
Johnny propose on his knees, 
give her a ring and set a defi­
nite date for a church wedding. 
The fact that she isn't really in 
love with him is of minor im­
portance. 
When Johnny leaves for Italy to be with his dying mother for a few weeks before the wed­ding. he gives Loretta explicit directions to invite his younger brother to the ceremony in hopes of mending bad blood between them. From then on, fate takes Loretta in a different direction from a safe, dull mar­riage with Johnny. 
Loretta arrives at Ronny cam­mareri's bakery to find a fiery, hot-headed young man who refuses to reconcile the five­year rift with his brother. Loretta and Ronny talk in his apartment and confront each other with issues they each won't admit to themselves. Their conversation explodes into a sizzling and passionate encounter while the light of the full moon shines softly through the window. 
Their night together awakens emotions in each of them that have been asleep for years. Ronny knows he is in love, but Loretta is torn between her safe, planned engagement to Johnny and her undeniable, but risky, attraction to his bro­ther. 
The "Moonstruck" storyline is engaging. It draws the audi­ence into it, but not very deep­
ly. The Italian characters and atmosphere are enjoyable, and the film as a whole is entertain­ing. It is light-hearted and fun. 
Some of the humorous parts are especially good. A few scenes in the Italian restaurant the Castorini family often fre­quen~s involve a man being walked out on by his young dates. Later, he is drawn into the story when he joins Loret­ta's mother for dinner. 
The final scene, occurring around the Castorini breakfast table, is also enjoyable as all the conflicts of the story come to a climax with light suspense and much humor. The con­frontations between the charac­ters at this meal are skillfully intertwined, yet in a way that 
does not make them seem very 
likely. 
None of these scenes can 
really be described as "sophist­
icated." Although they are en­
tertaining. most of the film's 
scenes are a little too silly and 
far-fetched to be believable. 
The only really convincing 
scene is when Ronny heartfully 
tries to explain to Loretta that 
love is full of risks and does 
hurt and can make people 
miserable, but is still much 
better than having no love at 
all. He shows that although 
emotions can be painful, they ·are what make life meaningful. This scene is a touching one, 
and probably conveys the 
central message of the film. 
In addition to its un­believability, a further problem with "Moonstruck" is that it does not hold together very well. The several aspects or angles of the film are not brought together into a cohesive whole. The full moon idea that was meant to be a sort of theme never seems to click and is not carried throughout the movie. The problem with Loretta's parents' marriage is never really con­fronted and resolved. It is briefly mentioned in the final scene, but not treated ade­quately for all the significance it seems to have had earlier in the film. 
Despite its problems, "Moonstruck" is still enjoyable. If a viewer goes into it expect­ing only a light and entertain­ing escape from everyday reality and not expecting anyth­ing terribly convincing or so­phisticated, he will be pleasantly satisfied. 
"Moonstruck" renews passion and romance in the hearts of two lonely people who have given up on love. In doing so, it suggests to viewers the pos­sibility of rekindling love in their own lives. 
Monday, March 7, 1988 

Soap update 
Shana falls, loses her baby on 'Loving' 
All  My  Childem:  Jeremy  
rescued  Natalie,  and  then  
blasted  Silver  for  being  

jealous of Natalie. Matt was elated when Nina said the baby was his. Cliff was dubious, but cancelled his trip after hearing Bobby wish he and Nina were together. Julie tried breaking Nlco out of prison, but he lay uncon­scious Jn the laundry room. Coming: Tom, Brooke, and Adam take sides. Another World: Cass saved Nicole when their plane crashed on a desert island. Andre secretly watched them with a gun. Adam got the store to drop the shoplifting charges against Loretta. Sam wound up in prison on his wedding day when he tried to return a bracelet. Loretta gave to Amanda. Dawn won her suit. Coming: Sam makes his apology. As The World Turns: Margo learned she was pregnant. Lien was confused by Margo's feeling for Hal. Susan found a threatening note from Nick in Emily's condo. Meg found a similar note in Tonia's brief· case. In Edinl>urgh, Hal received a concussion while exploringJames' house. Beau covered when Pam saw scratches on his face. Com­ing: Beau gets a dangerous idea. Dallas: April went into hiding. Pearce's strange behavior puzzled Sue Ellen. J.R. in­fluenced Cliff to keep his Weststar shares. Bobby be­came attracted to Kay Lloyd while doing business in Wash· ington. Brett urged Laurel to return to London with him. David Shelton attempted to blackmail Clayton. Coming: Nicholas flees his old enemies. Days Of Our Lives: After es­caping from the police, Roman and Diana made up. 
Justin severed contact with Victor when Adrienne told him about the baby. Kayla moved into Patch's loft and began rape therapy. Jack started to reject the kidney. Eve worried about the slasher. Coming: Janice makes a choice. Dynasty: Alexis hired Morgan Hess to investigate Sean. Alexis finally told Blake why Kirby left without marrying Adam. Leslie revealed Sean's death threats against her. Adam faces the truth about his parentage. Blake and Dex were pulled into an explosive trap in Natumbe. Coming: Blake faces new charges. falcon Crest: Richard upset Angela's first legal outingwith Michael. Lance found help from the Justice Department, but endangered himself by in­vestigating Richard. Carly threw a party. Angela found out about Maggie's lapse with alcohol. Melissa learned the truth about Frank. Coming: Angela escal!ltes her battle with Richard. General Hospital:Anna began her recoveryat General Hospi­tal. Duke mistakenly thought 
Anna called out to Robert. 
Scorpio searched Duke's club after rival mobsters fought over the illegal booze. Felicia learned Frisco was missing in action. Bobbie responded to Scott's kisses. Coming: Robert questions his feelings. Guiding Light: Alan refused to let Josh see Reva. Josh ac­cepted Will's apology but remained suspicious. After overhearing Alan's conversa­tion with Alex, Will told Sonni that Josh is Marah's father. Sonni went to Will for love after Josh said no. Roxie's psychiatrist told Johnny not to visit her anymore. Coming: Johnny makes a new start. Knots Landing: Olivia became attracted to a youngcolleague of mobster Manny Vasquez. Vasquez stepped up his plans to use Lotus Point as a center for gangland business. Gary decided he wanted out of his Lotus Point arrangement with Abby and Karen. Johnny Rourke began an investiga­tion of Greg. Coming: Olivia steps onto dangerous ground. Loving: Believing Jim stayed with her out ofduty, not love, Shana rushed upstairs, fell, and suffered a miscarriage. Rick told Jack that Lily en­gineered his marital break-up by planting evidence. However, Jack continued to believe in Lily's innocence, ac­cused Rick of trying to get back at Lily. and punched him. Coming: Stacey remains unforgiving. One Life To Live: Clear Eyes urged Clint to return to Buc­hanan City if he wanted to see his loved ones again. Clint learned Ginny was in love with Randolph Lord, and had to find him or Vlki would never be born. Max joined Tina un­dercover; they found Milagro in the basement but were taken captive by thieves. Coming: Tina fights for her child. Ryan's Hope: The doctors stabilized Johnny. Dee con­vinced Malachy Malone to get Dakota to resign. Jack trapped Sherr! into revealing her knowledge of Richard and Emily's affair. Ben got drunk and a fire started in his apart· ment. Brewster suggested that Zena leave the Walkers. Maeve took a nasty fall. Com­ing: Dee makes a suggestion. Santa Barbara: Kathleen died in a shootout with Cain and Andrea. Richard said he knew who killed Andrea's father. Cruz' uncle blessed him and Eden in a Mexican ceremony. Mason was hesitant about marriage again. 
Coming: Tori's mother com­
forts her. TheYoung & The Restless:Jill told Kay about her 'makeover' of Rex. but after Rex insisted on signing a strict prenuptial agreement, Kay married him. 
Nina went into labor. Victor 
took Leanna's phone number. Leanna hid her feelings during a dinner with Jack, Ashley and Steven. Coming: Nina's baby is born. 
1988, McNaught Synd. 


Business
Monday, March 7, 1988 page 9 
Japan's econom1c r1se based on innovation 
By Renee Gau Business Writer 
Dorothy Robins-Mowry, a Ph.D. in International Rela­tions, Organization, and Law, recently spoke at Notre Dame addressing the issue of Japan's economic and social transition. 
"Nowadays, the word foreign no longer means foreign. It means Japanese," said Dr. Robins-Mowry, "and yet Canada and West Ger­many, for instance, hold more investments in the United States. By reason of the very dramatic economic role of Japan the United States cannot help but devote its attentions to Japan." 
Furthermore, Robins-Mowry said that the Asian­Pacific rim is and will be the arena of economic dynamics for the next 25 to 50 years. As projected for the next two years, Japan will lead the world in rising GNP. The Asiatic eco­nomic area, therefore, has be­come the focus of the world. 
Japan has not always been a leader in the financial markets. 
According to Dr. Robins­Mowry, the years after World War II saw the slow but steady revival of Japan. The island people, who had experienced both the devastation of their economy and of their countryside, had only one option--regroup and build up from the rubble. They com­pletely renovated every socio­economic facet. 
"Their realization was that they were not going to focus at all in the military arena, nor in the international arena. They focused their attention on an economic rebirth," said Dr. 
Robins-Mowry. "Later on the Japanese became the benfac­tors of the Korean War ... and this gave them an added boost." 
Robins-Mowry added that because the Japanese are an in­nately hard-working and focused people, they are able to produce exponentially. 
She said, "Their duty to their jobs has become their principle duty orientation in life, almost like a blindness to anything else but duty." 
The Japanese also observed and learned from a motley va­riety of exemplary interna­tional cultures, languages, technological inventions and economic innovations. Dr. Robins-Mowry described this learning process as a three phase system: assimilation, digestion and rejection. 
Robins-Mowry explained: "They assimilate. They take in what they think is good and im­portant. They digest it through the Japanese prism of all things which make Japan a 'Japan­ness'. And then, they reject from that intake those things which do not suit them, making something which is completely Japanese." 
"Many of these things which Japan has used to get ahead in the world have come from America," said Robins­Mowry. She said, "Hard work, good hard study and devotion to obligations are all character­istics which have added to the flavor of America." 
When Americans search for the secret to Japan's success, therefore, they should look within themselves. 
"These special traits which 
Dividends boost 
By JOHN WHOLIHAN term growth. Business Writer Many people are wondering whether to take their profits in 
Editor's Note: This is the order to finance Spring Break. final enstallment ofa series on Although the chart investment opportunities avail­demonstrates that superior able to Notre Dame students. 
As a service to our readers, Wall Street at Notre Dame Av-Wall St. enue initiated a model stock at portfolio for the small investor. 
NO Ave.
Four stocks were purchased: Baxter, Coca-Cola, Pacific Telesis, and Wringly. 


The stocks were chosen be-short-term results have been cause they were in "recession achieved, certain new develop­proof" industries which were in ments have made this portfolio demand because of the stock attractive to hold. market crash in October. Baxter has raised its annual 
The intention of the model dividend 13.6 percent, from $.44 portfolio is to show how a diver-to $.50. Fifty shares of Baxter sified portfolio will enjoy long-will net the portfolio $25 a year. 
Wall Street at N.D. Avenue 
the Japanese use today are 
things we (Americans) have al­
most forgotten or excuc-;ed as 
not being necessary ... we have 
become flabby," said Robins­
Mowry. 
Robins-Mowry suggested 
that as Americans try to be­
come more sensitive and 
aware of their international 
counterparts, they must also 
step back and attempt intro­
spection, difficult though it 
may be. 
Robins-Mowry also added 
that America in no way needs 
to copy Japanese ways. "I don't 
even know if the U.S. wants to 
learn from them. We should, 
however, pay attention to 
them," said Robins-Mowry. 
For instance, although the 
Japanese are very successful, 
they are only focused in the 
small arena of their own eco­
nomy. Other Japanese socio­
economic processes are ne­
glected such as their standard 
of living. It is by far inferior to 
America's living standards. 
America would do itself a dis­
service if it emulated this or 
other aspects of Japanese soci­
ety. 

Dr. Robins-Mowry foresees a 
coming economic balance be­
tween the United States and 
Japan as both nations share in­
creased international responsi­
bility and cooperation. . 
Robins-Mowry, in light of 
growing international ties, 
strongly recommends that col­
lege students study a second 
language and travel as often as 
possible. 
She hopes that the modern 
generations will be able to ac­
cept their responsibility of 
learning about an ever 
shrinking world. 
portfolio 
Coca-Cola has a good outlook 
for 1988. This company has also 
raised their dividend, from 
$1.12 a share to $1.20. The 
portfolio's 25 shares of Coke 
will earn $30 in dividends this 
year. 

Pacific Telesis, the 
portfolio's only utility stock, 
recently announced a dividend 
raise. Pac Tel shareholders 
will now receive $1.76 per share 
annually, up from $1.64. 
Airfares climbing 
a The Party's Over-Better purchase your airline tickets soon, because the days of cheap airfares may soon be past. Continental, American, and United announced on Thursday that they will increase selected fares after Mar. 15. Prices wil go back to the levels found at the end of last year. Delta Air Lines and USAir have also indicated they may boost their airfares. The reason for this unfortunate news is that the airline industry is experiencing a definite upswing. Industry analysts believe that fears of a recession have been overdone, and that airline traffic will not decline. Another result of the booming industry is that the airlines will tighten their re­strictions on discount fares. a Celebrity Support-Schleicher & Co. of West Germany experienced a 20 percent jump in 1987 sales because of an unexpected endorsement by that star-studded Marine him­self: Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North. Schleicher produces the Intimus 007 S paper shredder which was used by North 
according to his testimony to congressional investigators. 
Wholihan and Claeys 
Business Briefs 
a You Figure It Out-The stock market logically should 
react favorably to good economic news. At least that is what 
we would like to think. It is getting increasingly difficult to 
predict how the market will react to a new statistic or piece 
of information. For example, the Department of Labor an­
nounced Friday that unemployment is at an eight and an 
half year low of 5.7 percent-pretty good news to a market 
worrying over an upcoming recession. The Dow Jones 
Average, however, dropped 20 points by noon. Why? Traders 
feared that the increase in employment signals an expanding 
economy, and as a result, higher interest rates. Any talk of 
higher interest rates is enough to send the stock market 
falling. This illustrates that the market can find bad news 
in anything if it wants to, and therefore, hardly acts logically. 
a Marathon, L.A. Style-Most people are familiar with the 
Boston and New York Marathons. The Boston Marathon has 
a rich tradition, and the New York race is currently the 
largest, and the only race that has television coverage. The 
relatively new Los Angeles Marathon, however, will not be 
outdone much longer. Why not? Management and marketing 
superiority. 
Bill Burke, a 52 percent owner of Los Angeles Marathon 
Inc., is the man behind the growth of the West Coast race. 
The Los Angeles race is a for-profit race, unlike the other 
two. Burke is hoping for television coverage within the next 
two years. This would help finance the $4.5 million race 
budget. The owner's second goal is to model the race after 
the successful 1984 Olympics, which also took place in Los 
Angeles. There are two parts to this goal. Burke has already 
secured many big-name sponsors. Among them are 
Mercedes-Benz, Seven-Up, Pan Am, and John Hancock. In 
addition, Burke has arranged for thousands of locals to volun­
teer and assist in the race effort, similar to the Olympic plan. 
Of course, there will be a celebrity pre-race dinner to help 
market the race. 
What does this mean to the runner? A lot of fun and sweat. 
What does this mean to the winner? Both the male and female 
winners will earn $25,000 and a Mercedes-Benz automobile. 
A world-record will earn an additional $100,000. 
The Last Word: New York talent consultant Marty Black­
man on the limited possibilities of U.S. Olympians gaining 
endorsement contracts. Brian Boitano could do well but, 
"When advertisers look towards a male sports personality, 
what type of image do they want? Machoism. He might be 
perfect for a camera company, but he ain't going to do an 
after-shave commercial." 
#of Shares Purchase Current Percentage Stock Purchased Price (11/4) Price (3/4) Change 
BAXTER 50 $22.50 $24.88 +16.55% COKE 25 $40.63 $38.00 -6.46% PACTEL 50 $28.75 $28.75 0% WRIGLEY 25 $54.00 $76.50 +41.67% 
Portfolio* $4,928.13 $5,543.75 +12.49% 
Dow Jones 1,963.53 2,057.86 +4.8% 
* does not account for paid commissions or dividends received 
Wrigley continues to be a star r:::=7;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:==::::~·performer. The portfolio bene­fitted from an extra year-end 

Business Boxers 
dividend of just over $.60 a share. To each their own. But, if the 
flmerica•s Oldest Trademarks 
bull market starts again, it 
should be worth your while to 
hold these stocks. Model Portfolio Update 
Colgate Jack Daniels Chiquita Bananas Vaseline Coca-Cola 
1806 1866 1876 1879 1886 

Source: <1.8. Patent Office 
Monday, March 7, 1988

page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
LaPhonso Ellis was named first team high school all-American and Elmer Bennett was named third team all-American by Parade Magazine. Both players have signed letters of intent to play basketball for Notre Dame. -The Observer 
· SorinHallistheinterhallbasketball 'B' league champion after defeating Dillion 49-40 Sunday night. In the 'A' league finals, a buzzer shot by Chris Perozek gave Stanford A2 a 50-48 win over Stanford A1 and forced a second game to decide the champion tonight at 11 p.m. -The Observer 
Interhall hockey playoffs begin tonight at the Joyce ACC ice rink with Grace facing Cavanaugh at 10:30, fol­lowed by Alumni and Off Campus at 11:45. -The Observer 
Thewomen'srugbyteamwillhavepracticetomorrow from 10-11 p.m. at Loftus. Any questions, please call Lauren (3560) or Cathy (4067). -The Observer 
The Fisher-Howard broomball team defended its title Saturday by defeating Morrissey twice. -The Observer 
. · 
Body fat testing is being offered by non-varsity athletics tomorrow at 6 p.m. in the NVA office at the JACC. Testing will be done on a first-come, first served basis. Shorts and short sleeves are required. -The Observer 
Aerobic instructor applications are now available at non-varsity athletics for 1988-89 positions. Interested stu­dents students should submit their applications no later April 1. Call 239-6400 for more information. -The Observer 
Trivia Night returns to "Speaking ofSports" tomorrow on WVFI. Host Rick Rietbrock and the entire executive sports staff will taking calls at 239-6400 from 10-11 p.m. -The Obs~rver 
ND basketball against Hardin-Simmons will bybroadcast by WVFI tonight. Frank Mastro and Kevin Her­bert call the play-by-play beginning at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
~ports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­t~ne Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publiC'::>­bon. -The Observer 
Deadlines announced 
Special to The Observer 
Non-varsity athletics has an­nounced the following entry deadlines: March 9 
•Interhall 
women's soccer tournament. Entry fee is $25. Submit rosters to NVA office. 

•Interhall 
men's and women's softball. Rosters minimum is 12 women, maximum 16. Play will start as early as weather permits. Roster deadline is March 11. 

•Graduate 
department slow­pitch softball. Roster mini­mum is 12 men, with captains listed. Teams must be entered by department. 

•Interhall 
baseball. Entry fee is $15. Roster minimum is 14, maximum 18. 


Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non­contact sports. Forms and more information are avail­able in the NVA office. 

1'lllea...-Notnl Dame office, located on the third floor of LAFortune Stu­ct.nt c.m.r, -=c:ept. ctuaifted ~llllng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday tllrough Ffldar. The a...-s.1nt lbry's office, located on the third floor of HIQprCollge Cent•, accepts cluaifleda from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday thruugll Ffldar. DMdllne for next-day claaalfteds Is 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must 
Classifieds be pnlpllld, either In peBon or by mall. The ch.,ge Is 10 cents per five 
~~day. 
John Monahan HEY YOUI House lor rent: safe area. 5 furnished 
No, he's not desperate. But come to bedrooms. 2 large living rooms 2 lull MARK TAYLOR'S class anyway. Today Thanks to both of you lor walking me OK, you win, but I'll get you next time. HEY YOUI HEY YOUI
baths. Eat-in kitchen. Private parking lot: home. security lights. Outdoor basketball court. -AL ARE YOU IN A CAMPUS BAND? WE Room lor 5 students. Avilable: Fall1988. 
{ NOTICES is Mozart. 3 pm-·1 st floor Crowley. The Buffalo 
ARE LOOKING FOR UNIVERSITY MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; Welcome back BANDS TO PLAY AT THE GREAT ES· 
$575.00 per month ¢ utilities ¢ deposit. 
DAVE STOLPMAN, Je ne t'obliais pas.
2n-1051 DAY. Father Arlit CAPE OF 88 ( A MARATHON CON­
Call: Bruce: 234·3831 evenings and HELP ME GET HOMEI ·····················-········································· weekends. I desperately need to find a ride to Long CERT/DANCE TO RAISE MONEY FOR BALLROOM DANCE CLUB: Cost lor Wil·
TYPING AVAILABLE CYSTIC FIBROSIS) ON APRIL 15. IF
Island or the NYC area lor spring break. 
lowbrook is $15 Bring your money to287-4082 YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les· I will split expenses, etc. and can leave YOU ARE INTERESTED OR KNOW OF 
class tonight
bians at Notre Dam..St.Mary's College A BAND AT ANOTHER UNIVERSITY
any time. Please call if you are driving 
......\ ........................................................
P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame. IN 46556. THAT MIGHT BE -CALL DAVE AT
in that area. Thanks. Jim (1215).
WANTED 

DAD, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! REMEMBER
Get ready lor Spring Break by selling Confidentiality Guaranteed. 1851. OUT OF CONTROL! unwanted class booka lor $$$ at Pan· 
THAT 45 IS ONLY 112 OF 901 ­
KYM,MIKE,TONYdora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off To gi~ with NEW YORK CITY ticket. Yes, AAJAX WANT TO KNOW WHAT WAS THENO Ave). Open 7 day&' week 10·5:30. 
I want it! Please call Missy at 27HJ868. FIRST OFFICIAL N.D. FOOTBALL Congratulations to the cast of Amadeus. 
GIRLSI GIRLSI GIRLSI Kevin Hoar has 
Leave message with roommate. NEEDII CHEER ? BUY THE ORIGINAL N.D. A triumph for Notre Dame I StMary's
turned 211 Stop by 235 Keenan or callFAST. QUAUTY TYPING $1-1>0. 258­A RIDE TO CLEVELAND, AKRON· theatreII
TRIVIA GAME AND YOU WILL FIND 
3289 and make him live up to his namel WANTED: BLOOD PLASMA DONERS. THE ANSWER TO THIS QUESTION ¢ ·JAR4643 
CANTON VICINITY OR EXIT 11 ON THE OHIO TURNPIKE FOR SPRING
Help save a life and earn extre cash 4,799 OTHER QUESTIONS. AVAIL­i'N'Eieo.A..R.IDETO INDIANAPOLIS OR 
................................................................ 

BREAKI! CAN LEAVE AFTER 2:30 ON EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
lit the aame time. N-and old donora ABLE FOR ONLY $12. CALL 269·91586 HEY FLAT 5 EUROFAGS: ARE YOUR
CLOSE ON THURSDAY AFTERNOONTHURS. MARCH 10. IF YOU CAN HELP 
who have not glvan within 30-daya will AFTER 8PM. SADDLES SOAR? 
3-10 IrS ON THE WAY TO FLORIDAMRS. COKER, 233-7009. CALL THERESA AT X4238.
be paid $12, ceah after donating If you NICK 2101 or 2100 
bring In this ad. Come to Amelcan Going West on 1-80 lor break? I need a WELCOW FARTIII RIDERS NEEDED FOR Plasma on Tuesday, Wednesday, ride lo Iowa City. Call Faris at 4352. THE TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF FA··
To girl with NEW YORK CITY tick­Kathleen my Germanic Jewel, When will 
YOUNGSTOWN, CLEVELAND, PIT· Friday or Saturday. 515 Llncolnway et... Yes, I want itt Please call Missy at THEA ART
you even acknowledge my presence? I TSBURGH AREA 3111 to 3-20. 271-o868. Leave message with room­
Weal, South Bend, 234-6010. I Love I Love Ter Rsdak I Love I Love 
see you all day and in my dreams atmate.
CALL MATT 27HJ604 night. Just say Hi. Love, Late Night Gem 

GOING TO D.C. FOR BREAK???? We Things We Won't Miss XV:
Cutter 

want to share rides with you I Beth needs EDUCATIONAL TOUR TO THE SOVIET Enjoy Coke "Whore's The Bookstore?" a ride there, Amy needs one back. 
UNION -DESIGNED FOR STUDENTS SOPHOMORE SIBS PLEASE call Beth 2851 or Amy 4525 15 days starting May 29 ·algn-upa due Enjoy Coke SOPHOMORE SIBS 
\ LOST/FOUND\ 

soon. lnfonnatlonal meeting 4 211 and Hey Party DuckSOPHOMORE SIBS
2110 at 4:30 In G~9 library baaemant
RIDERS NEEDED FOR Enjoy Coke Talk about Fun Lost: Last Semester. A blue lijeguard YOUNGSTOWN,CLEVELAND,PITISBURGf (or cell 1-1162-3191) April 15-17, 1868 
The Law jacket wrth gold letters and trim. II you AREA 3111 TO 320. 
Into. meeting March 9-ND ROOM 
(LAFORTUNE)-7:30 PM ALL WEL­have seen rt, please contact John at CALL MATT 271·0604 CLASS OF '91 CLASS OF '91 VOTE HELP!I Desperately need ride to Buffalo COME!
1620. P.S. It is part of my unilonn. WITH GUMBY FOR FITZGERALD 
area lor break. Share the usuals. Can Hey Doge CENEDELLA RICHARDS BOEHLING 
leave Thursday afternoon. Todd 1355 Lost, a black, herringbone overcoat at NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES­••• MARCH 8 ••• or 1310. Vote For Train And Eggroll
CLASS OF 1990The Commons. It had a checkbook with SEE FOR EASTER BREAKIIIIIIIIII CLASS OF 19911 my name on it in the breast pocket and CALL CAROL at 27HI868 ASAP. HAIRCUTS:ONL Y $4111 Two people need a ride to Columbus But Not Just For Their Good Looks Alone
MONDAY, MARCH 7, 11188keys in another. II you picked " up on I'll come to YOUR rooml Ohio lor spring break. Money is almost LAFORTUNE TV LOUNGE, 8:00 PM
Tues<jay night, I'd appreciate a call. You I need a ride lor spring break to anywhere Call Jean 4244 no object. Please call 4205 or 2921. Ride needed to Mt. Prospect, 11.3110.
SOPHOMORE MOVIE NIGHT "SPRING 
can keep the coat but I desperately need In the area of SOUTHERN ILLINOIS or Thanks. Share expenses.Call Jack at 2021
BREAK"
those keys. Call at, 27Hl683 ST. LOUIS. Call Babs x3736. 
ANNE W. WHY DO YOU READ THESE? START SPRING BREAK EARLY/I!/!! o'i<Av....·;;L:Ntie'Aosi.....iiA'o.....AsoliT
································································ True to Uta, a lecture by Lawrence 
LOSTI LOSTII LOST II RIDER NEEDED to share expenses lor GLAD EVERYTHING IS OVER LET'S Weschler on the exhibrtion, ENOUGH OF MEDIOCRE BANDS?
What IS your middle name? LIZREILL Y 
I LOST MY FRIEND'S RADIO HEAD­trip to SC over break. Leave Fri. Return HAVE FUN TOGETHER LOVE YA Photographs by Devkl Hackney has FOR SOME REAL ROCK"N"ROLL
Happy 19th -or is it 23? The best is yetSET ON WEDNESDAY, »1111. POKES been changed to 4 pm, March 9, An· COME SEE THE SHADES AT CHIPS
next Fri. Call 4048. to comel We love you, KT, Wendy-0,
WHERE? IN THE VARSrrY nenberg Aud., Snite Museum of Art. ON TUES.&WEDS.THE SHADES THE

Stupid, the gi~ in the ragged jeans, and
WEIGHTROOM IN THE ACC. PLEASEI RESORT HOTELS, Six: 6 SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES
your favorite (only) roommateIF YOU Cnulaellnea,Airltnee & Amuaement · COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Brother· 
PICKED IT UP, CALL ME TO RETURN Parka NOW accepting applications for Sister Camps seeking stall, all transpor· v;;;;·H;;;;:·oh·E·fiij:j.'.Aii~~·;p;~;;·i~ij...;;;;g
Kiki Johnson 1.) Skoal user 2.) Fish killer 
IT. IT WOULD BE GREATl.Y summer job8,1ntemahlpa and career HELPI I NEED A RIDE TO NORTHERN tation paid. Call collect: (215) 663-0366. hours searching lor your name in the per­
3.) Denture wearer
APPRECIATED BY ME AND MY pollltlona.For lnfonnatton & applica­N.J. FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL See us at LaFortune Student Center on sonals, or even an ad which possibly ap­FRIEND. tion, write Netlonal Collegiate Recrea­SHARE EXPENSES. CALL FRANK 1487 Thurs.. Mar. 24 from 11 am -4 pm. ply to you (the cute blond who's such a
DOGSTHANKS, VIVIANNE 283-1382 tion, P.O.Box 8074, Hilton Head la­RAD dancer), here it lsll Have a good
DOGS 
land,SC 29938. NEED RIDE TO ANOOR FROM OK· DOGS dayl hove ya' K.C. 
................................................................ LAHOMA.WILL HELP WGAS AND 
MR. STANFORD MANIAIII CATCH ITI!I 
DOGSFOUND: ONE SET OF CAR KEYS WITH DRIVE BRAD4133 Happy 20th Bday Mary Cassidy! Luv,DOGSLEATHER RING IN 06 PARKING LOT. 
Need a ride to BUFFALO? Wed 9th or Marianne Elizabeth Lynn Sue CALL 283-2824 TO CLAIM. NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES­
Thurs 1Oth Call Jen 284-4381 OKAY. SO NVA SCREWED IT UP.
FOR SALE 

SEE FOR EASTER BREAKIIIIIIII (OR THUS, ONCE AGAIN, WE BRING YOU Need ride to Mpt..St. Paul lor break. LOST: men's gold chain JPW weekend ANY WHERE IN THE NEAR VICINITY) 
Need ride to DC area lor Spring break IH HOCKEY PLAYOFFS Please call 4-4326. (211 9) at Bridget or Sen. bar. I've looked PLEASE CALL CAROL at 271.0868.
Electra Westone Bass ¢ Marshall Bass20 Call lngo X 2460 with good news ALUMNI DOGS 
everywhere. Call Matt-4506 Sent. Value 

Amp. Together or separate. Marty 1106 va. THE TOP FIVE: WHY NOT TO HAVE OC CRIME
"DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY VOTING RECOUNTS 5. MAKES I lost my camera at Bridget& on Thursday FOR SALE: Metal Office Desk & GOAT IS?" TONIGHT, 11:45 AT THE ACC MOUNTAIN OUT OF A MOLEHILL 4. night (at least I think I lost rt there). My 
Chair($45), Wooden Dresser($20) 2· Good Luck An.,..Marle Walker & Jeff CAUSES UNDUE STRESS TO THE senses were not functioning maximally, 
Single Beds($15 each) Call Blll258·5760 Hellertl Cleaa of '90 needa youl Amy YES, EVEN SGT. SAM WALSH WILL CANDIDATES 3. ELECTRONIC SYS­and II I asked you to take a picture of NAN lor UMOC 
BE AT THE ACC TONIGHT. CAN THE TEMS MALFUNCTION 2.DOESN'T me and my friends and neglected to get NAN lor UMOC
NEW CAR STEREO:doesn't lit my Attention Pebble Beachl Please come DOGS TAKE THE BITE OUT OF HELP THE SITUATION-THIRD TIME car,AMf'M,tape,40WT visit long-lost Farleyite in Rm.146. CRIME?
the camera back from you, I would greatly NAN lor UMOC ISN'T A CHARMI 1QUE SERA SEA­appreciate rts return. II you happened to spkrs,booster,$100 negotiable-WHATEVER WILL BE WILL BE... THE 
lind rt on the floor or table I would also "It's gonna get ugly." greatly appreciate rts retum. The film in (Well, UGLIERI) 
Greg287 -3934 Tam "QUACK? WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU END-PAR2 NEXT WEEK 
Now that exams are over... Don't waste GUYS DOING?" the camera has great value to me. Please 
too much time on MCATsl Have some 'WE'RE PUTIING ON THE FOIL, COA· fun I CH." CONGRATULATIONS N.V.A. BROOM­
Interested in social service? Interested BALL CHAMPIONSIIIIIII in fighting red tape? Interested in the
(;()".t~~.~...~:..~.~.~.~~.~~..'.~.~.~.~................... I TICKETS 
Chief· human suffering in Chile? Then come Why won't you ever play tennis with me? DOGS MOLLY, JEANNE, BECKY, sc FOR listen to James Mundell, director of Chol· KRIS, BEV,
FOR RENT I 

FLIGHT TO CHARLESTON DOGS • • BREAK.CALL 1678 Foundation Develop­JESSE JACKSON FOR PRESIDENT! A DOGS PAUL, JOE, DAVE,
Chol lor Human ment CSC, Monday, March 7 at 7:00PM. 
CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE FOR THE DOGS TOMMY, CHRIS, ARNIE RENT CHGO APTI Sunny, lg 1 br In 
..............................................

To girl with NEW YORK CITY ticket. Yes, MOCK CONVENTION JACKSON CAM· DOGS vln~ ctyd bldg. Hdwd lira, fan, 
I want itl Please call Missy at 271-0868. WED. LUNCHFASTERS... Ever won­PAIGN WILL MEET TO DISCUSS NA· blnda, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clata, dered where the money goes? Who rt BEE FER 
Leave message with roommate. TIONAL AND MOCK CONVENTION bamt atorage,lndry. V.Z blk to Lk Shore flelps? Here's your chance to lind the 
PLANS. MEET IN 357 CAVANAUGH ON HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY CINDY RED· BEE FER Dr bUa, 2 blk to el train, Wrigley. $850. answers. James Mundell, director of the 
TUES 3-8. FOR MORE INFO CALL DINGI I KNEW YOU WOULDN'T AN· BEE FER Avail beg Apr 1. 312-1171-3397 (NO '80) Choi·Chol Foundation lor Human Devel· THANKS FOR INVITING ME TO 'WAKE"
JOHN AT 1531. NOUNCE IT SO I FELT IT WAS MY opment, will be speaking about issues WITH YOU. HAD A GREAT TIME.
DUTY AS A COUSIN TO DO SOl FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· involved in running a development 
SUPPORT IRISH BASKETBALL! FIRE ANNETIE
PERSONALS
BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955255-agency in the third world. Choi-Chol an· 
DIGGER PHELPSI To John, Renee, Brian, Julie, Mike, 3684 nually receives lunch last lunda lor its Susan, Geoff, Laura, and Loopster: North Dining Hall: Please bring back ................................................................ OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, work in Chile. All are invited to hear 
I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR Thanks tor all your help on the Business Cracldin Bran. 2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE James Mundell. Monday, March 7. 7:00 SPRING BREAK-WILL SHARE ANY EX· Page. Steve Jt may look like catlood but it tastes greatl 288-0955 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. PM in the CSC auditorium. 
PENSES CALL MIKE X3625 ··Matt King 


Irish cap season of fast improvement 

page 11 

Indiana takes two from Irish 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball 
team lost a doubleheader at the 
hands of Indiana University on 
Sunday, by scores of 10-1 and 
7-4. 
Hoosier ace Eric Jaques held 
the Irish to just two hits in the 
first seven-inning game. His 
team backed him up with four 
home runs by four different 
players. 
Senior Kevin Chenail, 0-1, 
took the loss for the 1-5 Irish. 
The Hoosiers won the second 
game when John Wehner belted 
a two-out grand slam in the bot­
tom of the fifth inning to erase 
a 4-2 Irish lead. The shot tagged 
Brian Piotrowicz with the loss. 
Notre Dame started quickly 
in game two, scoring three runs 
in the first inning. Dan Peltier 
had an RBI-double and Tim 
Hutson followed with a long 
two-run homer to right-center 
field. 
But Indiana responded with 
single runs in the second and 
third innings. Notre Dame also 
added one in the third. 
Hutson has three home runs 
and 13 RBI in six games for the 
Irish. 
Friday the game between 
Notre Dame and Indiana State 
was cancelled because of snow. 
Notre Dame 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 -1 2 1 
Indiana 1 0 3 1 3 2 x -10 13 2 
Chenall. Howard (2), Passilla (3), Madden (4), 
Nagle (5) and Yawman. Jaques and Nebraska, Skin 
(7). W·Jaques 1-0. L·Chenall 0·1. HAs-Indiana, 
Morandlni (3), Sabo (2), Simloe (1 ), Aim (2). 
NotreDame 301 000 0 -4 5 0 
Indiana 0 1 0 1 4 1 x -7 9 1 
Plollllwlcz. Harmon (5) and Yahman. Peters, Han­
selman (4) and Barber. W-Hanselman t-0, L­
Piotrowicz, Q-1. HAs-Notre Dame, Hutson (3). In­
diana, Wehner (1), Dembinski (1). 
Promotions announced 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer sports depart­
ment announces the following 
promotions effective March 21 
for the 1988-89 publishing year: 
Theresa Kelly, a sophomore from Rochester, Ill., has been appointed Assistant Sports Editor. Kelly is currently a sports copy editor. 
Steve Megargee, a sopho­more from Tallahassee, Fla., has been appointed Assistant Sports Editor. Megargee is cur­rently a sports copy editor. 
Greg Guffey, a freshman from New Castle, Ind., has been chosen to be a sports copy editor. Guffey is currently a sports writer. 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
The men's swimming team capped a season marked with success and improvement last weekend with a fourth-place finish in the Midwest Indepen­dent Invitational Champion­ships. 
The Irish tallied 399 points in the meet. Western Kentucky won the event with 555 points followed by Southwest Mis­souri State at 458.5 and Western Illinois at 423. 
The 399-point total for the Irish showed just how far the team came this year. At last year's meet, Notre Dame scored 170 points and finished ninth. 
"We're really pleased with how we swam," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "Part way through the meet last year we thought we were knocking on the door, swimming in the con­solation finals. This year we ex­pected to be in the champion­ships. 
"What was especially excit· ing was that our best day was our last day. We think the last meet of the season is also the first meet of next season." 
Freshman Paul Godfrey led the Irish efforts with two first­place finishes. He won the 500 freestyle Thursday and the 1650 free Saturday. Both swims were University records. 
"Our objective was to swim a fast meet and do our best job," Welsh said, "then we would let the results take care of themselves. Paul did just that. It was two great swims for him. The fact that he was first in both made it that much better." 
The other first place went to Jim Byrne in the 200 back­stroke, setting another Univer-
Irish 
continued from page 16 
to Northern Iowa's Kurt Shedenhelm. Layton pinned Southwest Missouri State's Danny Francois and deci­sioned Chicago State's Rodney Johnson before falling to an­other Panther wrestler, Pat Hogan. And Gerardi edged Tim Cocco of Norther Illinois 7-5 before losing to yet a third Pan­ther wrestler, Chris Lembeck, in the finals. 
sity record. The night before Western Kentucky took four of the top five places in the 100 backstroke. Bynre downed all four of those swimmers in the · 200. 
The success of this year's team began with a home con­test against Alabama, the first of the season. Welsh said it was the stepping stone for the rest of the year. 
"Alabama won every event," Welsh said. "But it opened our eyes early in the season to a faster level of swim­ming. It was an educational and positive experience." 
That positive meet carried over to the National Catholics in December. The Irish finished second to national power Villanova and gave a signal that better times were definitely ahead. 
"We came back in December and proved that we were going to be a very fast, spirited team," Welsh said. "The results at the National Cat­holics lasted all season long." 
Notre Dame downed St. Bonaventure for the first time in five years in capping a 13-3 dual-meet record. Other im­pressive showings were first in the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference Championships and fourth last weekend. 
"We had a wonderful year," Welsh said, in perhaps some­what of an understatement. 
Notre Dame's Ron Wisniewski tangles with Nor­thern Iowa's Kurt Shedenhelm In the champion­ship match of the 142-pound division of the NCAA 

WOMEN IN PROFESSIONS  
A PANEL DISCUSSION Tuesday, March 8th  
8:00P.M.  
Washington Hall  
An opportunity to discuss issues concerning  
women in the professional arena.  
AOWOAICI  



page12 The Observer 
Stevenson rejects slump 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
With 7: 34 to play in the first half of Notre Dame's 72-50 vic­tory over Marquette Saturday, Mark Stevenson made a resounding return to the Irish lineup. 
And it was Stevenson, in the midst of a multi-game slump, who set up his own opportunity. 
The junior forward had a pass deflected at the top of the key, and Warrior forward Trevor Powell seemed headed for a dunk to cap the fast break. Then, Stevenson appeared from nowhere. He skied above the rim and swatted Powell's lCJ.yup away with a force that could probably be measured on the Richter scale. 
It was the only blocked shot of the day for the Irish, but it brought the capacity crowd to its feet and capped an 8-0 run for the Irish. 
"I threw a post pass into Keith Robinson, and it was deflected," Stevenson said. "When a competitor makes a mistake, he likes to make up for his mistake. Basically, that's what was going through my mind. I went after that shot even harder. 
"I just let him throw the shot up first and therefore I wouldn't hit him. I just tried to catch it on its peak going up so it wouldn't be goaltending." 
Before that block, Stevenson had not taken a shot from the field, connecting on just two free throws. Mter it, he caught fire. Stevenson connected on all six of his field-goal attempts and finished with 14 points in 21 minutes of action. 

That performance was a far cry from last weekend's showing against Vanderbilt when Stevenson did not score. In the three games before Van­derbilt, Stevenson scored 10 against Creighton, eight versus Dayton and four at Rutgers. In those three games, he shot only 6-of-20 from the field. 
Title 

continued from page 16 
It took a while for that next goal to be scored. Notre Dame's Lance Madson and Klavon were performing their own roles in a rendition of "Dueling Goalies," as neither team scored in a span of almost 25 minutes. 
It was Klavon who finally cracked. Mter breaking down the left side, Bob Herber skated toward the crease and put the puck past Klavon to give the Irish a 4-2 lead at 11:57 of the final period. 
McNeill added the final touches on the title-winnning triumph with his second goal of the contest at 14:51 of the per­iod. 
"He (McNeill) capped off a very good college career," said Schafer. "I might shed a tear the day he graduates. We'll miss him and all the seniors." 
Madson was the hero on this evening. The sophomore from Minnetonka, Minn., turned back a total of 29 shots to protect a_lead the Irish continu­ally held after Smith's first­minute rocket. 
"Som~tgames get down to that, witb''two evenly matched team~ t~. goaltend!ng makes 
the diff~nce," said Schafer. "TwQ wfllll*s ago, when we played bere Klavon shut us down. 
"I knew that sooner or later 
I was going to break out of the 
slump," Stevenson said. "I've 
been a part of this team for 
three years and my job is to 
score. I hadn't been doing that, 
and I felt like I was letting the 
team down." 
Irish coach Digger Phelps also knew it was only a matter of time before Stevenson returned to his old form. 
"As I said last week, he's due and Sean's (Connor) due to ex­plode," Phelps said. "I think Mark did today. That was something he needed to get his confidence going. I think we need to give them positive rein­forcement and just stay with them and know sooner or later that if they are going to shoot, they're going to hit it. Now, it's just a matter of maintaining that consistency." 
With Stevenson in the slump, Phelps opted to start Jamere Jackson at forward and use Stevenson off the bench in a suporting role. It was a move Stevenson understood. 
"Basically I wasn't hitting my shot," Stevenson said. "We needed somebody that was shooting pretty well and that would get us off to a good start. Jamere did that well for us. I just came off the bench and played my role. 
"It just helped me. That's the kind of thing we have on this team. If somebody lets down, there's always somebody be­hind you to pick up the slack. If you want to play, you're going to have to go out there and work just as hard." 
Along with Stevenson, David Rivers also broke out of a slump Saturday. In the early stages of the second half Rivers and Stevenson put on a two­man show of of basketball per­fection. They scored 14 points in Notre Dame's 17-8 spurt that gave the Irish a 54-33 lead, with Stevenson twice capped fast breaks with layins from the as­sists of Rivers. 
"If we were paying Madson, we'd have to pay him doubletime this year," contin­ued Schafer. "He's our main man." 
For a while on Friday, the Irish were dangerously close to not getting another opportunity to face Dearborn. 
Notre Dame trailed Lake Forest 3-1 in the second period, and nobody on the Irish could get the puck past Forester goalie Jeff Sandreuter. 
"He was making some spec­tacular saves," said Schafer. "I was waiting for the horse­shoe to come out of his pocket.'' 
Somebody finally pickpock­eted Sandreuter, and the surprising conspirator was Frank O'Brien. The senior, playing his last weekend for the Irish, had scored only five goals all season. He picked the perfect time to pull a hat trick. 
First, O'Brien found a loose puck at the crease and stuck it in the net at 9:38 of the second period to cut Lake Forest's lead to 3-2. 
Bilton tied the game at 4: 19 of the third period, and then O'Brien got into full steam. He scored the winning goal at 12:30 of the third period. At 16:06 of the final period, O'Brien's third goal of the game gave him a hat trick and the Irish a 5-3 vic­tory. 
The  Frank  O'Brien  show  
earned  rave  reviews  from  
Schafer.  


"I think when me and Dave are shooting our shots the way we're supposed to that we can compete with just about anyone," Stevenson said. ''With Joe Fredrick coming into 
his own and making his shots like he is, that makes it even tougher for opponents. With Gary (Voce) and Keith <Robinson) at the post, you can't ask ·for anything more than that.'' 
"That was a key factor," Rivers said of Stevenson break­ing out of the slump. "When he comes through, that makes it a lot easier for the other guys. We can become a very good team when we're at our best." 
And with the NCAA tourney looming on the horizon, Steven­son has no doubts that he can maintain his revived level of play. 
"I don't think it's going to be any problem keeping my rhythm going," he said. "I've got all my confidence back and all I have to do is play like I know I can play. I won't fall into another slump." 
Saturday's Results Notre Dame 72, Marquette 50 Marquette (50) 
M FG·A  FT-A  R  F  ·P  
Powell  31  2-8  0-0  10  0  4  
Foley  35  7-14  0-0  2  0  14  
Leurck  22  3-7  1-3  6  4  7  
Sims  32  4-13  0-0  4  1  9  
Smith  31  1-3  0-2  3  1  2  
Luter  7  2-3  0-0  0  1  4  
Przybyla  1  1-1  0-0  0  0  2  
Anglavar  25  2-6  0-0134  
Grosse  16  2-6  0-0  2  2  4  
200 24-61  1-5  28  12  50  
FG  Pet  -.393.  FT  Pet  -.200.  Team  

rebounds -1. Turnovers -17. 3-PT shooting -Foley 0-1, Sims 1-4, Anglavar0-2. Assists-14 (Sims 5). Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame (72) M FG-A FT-A R F P 
J. Jackson 27 5-7 0-0 3 1 10 Voce 31 5·9 1-1 5 1 11 Robinson :19 6-7 0-1 9 2 12 Fredrick 14 2-8 0-0 1 4 4 Rivers 36 7-12 1-1 5 0 15 Singleton 4 1-4 0-0 1 0 2 Nanni 3 0-3 0-0000 Nicgorski 3 1-2 0-0 3 1 2 Stevenson 21 6-6 2-2 2 1 14 Connor 4 0-2 0-0 0 0 0 
T. Jackson 9 0-1 0-0 2 1 0 Ellery 11 0-2 0-0 2 0 0 Paddock 8 1-1 0-0 4 3 2 200 34-64 4-5 37 14 72 
FG Pet -.531. FT Pet -.800. Team rebounds -5. Turnovers -17. Assists -18 (Rivers 6). Technicals -none. 
"What a great way for him 
to end his career," said 
Schafer. "I was teasing him in 
the locker room after the game. 
I asked him when he became 
such a good goalscorer. He 
said, 'I did it just to spite you, 
Coach."' 
SLAP SHOTS-At a banquet 
held before the tournament, 
McNeill, Madson and defen­
semen Pat Foley and Lance 
Patten were named to the All­
ACHA team... At the 
post-tournament ceremonies, 
O'Brien and Foley made the 
All-Tournament team... The 
weekend marked the end of the 
college careers of seniors 
Foley, McNeill, Tom Mooney, 
O'Brien, Patten, Andy Slaggert 
and Welsch ... McNeill's three 
points over the weekend placed -him fifth in the school's all-time career scoring list with 198 points... McNeill's 72 points this season places him third on the school's all-time single­season list. . 
HILDCARE NEEDE 
Thurs, March 24, 9-noon Call3607 

Help needed while parents participate in an INFORMATION CARNIVAL 
Monday, March 7, 1988 


I Celebrate St. Patrick's Day I I with our special I I "Pot '0 Gold," and we'll I I provide the "Rainbow!" I
I . I 
Select any one of our delicious toppings at no charge I when you enjoy our gourmet frozen yogurt (cups and 1 cones only). It's smooth, creamy and delightful, withI half the calories and 80% less fat than premium ice I 
orroupon_ Cli98B I Can., &1-.: IIi 

1  cream.  open 7 days a week 111 -11  1  
1  I Can't Believe It's  I  
I  ~:r'l  
I  ~ ~  5 •  ;e.; •  f'Uie pn:.'nt this COI4JOII tri:Jre CJI'dmnc I..Jmil ® one coupon prr untomrr Nol \OaiKI WJitl.-.y othH  I  

~ 

~ON~~~-~~~~-----~ 



AP Photo Keith Jackson and the rest of the Southwest Missouri State Bears are looking forward to another trip to the NCAA Tournament after clinching the AMCU conference title with a 72-50 victory over Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
Player dies after game 
Associated Press This season he started in 14 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Jeff Tag­of Canisius' 22 games and was gart, the Canisius College bas­averaging 7.9 points and 1.9 ketball player who suffered a rebounds a game. seizure as he sat on the bench Saturday during a game He was 0-for-4 from the floor against Niagara, died of car­in his playing time Saturday diac arrest just as he entered night but led Canisius in the a local hospital's emergency game with four assists. The room, according to the team Golden Griffins lost 70-61 to physician. Niagara. 
Lecture by: 


Arthur Schlesinger 
-one of America's most influential historians and cherished writers -former special assistant to President John F. Kennedy -author of The Age of Jackson, winner of Pulitzer Prize for history 
-author of A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House, winner of Pulitzer Prize for biography 
March 7, 1988 Washington Hall 8:00 pm Tickets $2.00 
Available at The Cellar Feb 29 -March 4 
Sponsored by Student Union Boara 
~-~ -~--~-------~-----~~ 
The Observer page 13 
Seniors bid farewell as Irish host Hardin-Simmons tonight 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame squares off against Hardin-Simmons Monday night (7:30, WGN), the game will have two themes, farewell and revenge. 
Monday night, the Irish will be saying goodbye to their seniors--David Rivers, Gary Voce, Chris Nanni and Steve Nicgorski--in their final home regular season. 
On the revenge side stand the Cowboys. Hardin-Simmons plays in the Trans America Conference, home of fellow hyphenate Arkansas-Little Rock, a team that stunned Notre Dame and the nation two seasons ago in the first round of the NCAA Tournament 90-83. Don't think that's not on Notre Dame's mind. "Hardin­Simmons plays in a conference that beat us two years ago in the tournament," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "We haven't forgotten Arkansas-Little Rock." 
The Cowboys are 17-10 and third in the Trans America be­hind the Trojans. Hardin­Simmons has won six of its last eight games. After Monday night's game, the Cowboys head to DeLand, Fla., home of the Stetson Hatters, for the TAAC Tournament which begins Thursday. Four starters average double figures for Hardin-Simmons, led by forward Eric Adams' 17.8. Fellow forward Vince Langston scores 16.7 game, while pivotman Tyrone Mul­dow adds 15.6. 
In the backcourt, Terry Yan­cey is averaging 11.6 points per game and Sedrick Evans averages 9.3 points and 7.0 as­sists per game. 
"Hardin-Simmons has some athletes," Phelps says. "When they played at Oral Roberts, Oral Robers came out in a 2-3 zone, and Hardin-Simmons made five straight three­pointers." 
But more importantly for the Irish and their fans, Monday night's game is chance to say goodbye and thank you to the class of 1988. Led by Rivers, the Irish have had an overall record of 86-31 (.740), including 57-0 (.860) at home. They've made three-straight trips to the NCAA Tournament after a three-year absence and are on the verge of another. 
Rivers has scored 1,992 total points in his career and stands 
third  on  the  Irish  career  
scoring  chart  behind  Austin  
Carr  (2,560)  and  Adrian  

Dantley (2,223). Should he get eight points against the Cow­boys, Rivers will become only the third player in Notre Dame history to score 2,000 points. 
Rivers stanJs first in career free-throw percentage at 81.5 percent, assists with 558 and steals with 191. His 567 free throws made and 695 free throw attempts stand second in both categories. His 17.3 career scoring average is ninth all­time. 
"David Rivers has been Notre Dame basketball for the last four year," Phelps says. 
"No  offense  to  Adrian  
CDantley)  and  Kelly  
(Tripucka)--players  like  that  

are one in a million--but a player like David comes along once in a lifetime. 
"The seniors will say goodbye after the game as has been tradtion. I would hope the student body turns out to say thank you for all he's done, es­pecially since he was almost dead two summers ago." 
Voce has been a model of de­velopment for the Irish. After seeing limited action his first two seasons, Voce has become an integral part of the Irish in­side game. He's led the Irish in rebounding last season with 200 and is second with 178 this season behind Keith Robin­son's 180. His 10.8 scoring average this season is a career high. He's fourth on the Irish career blocked shots list with 36, behind Tim Kempton's 40. 
Nicgorski has been a walk-on for the Irish for three years and Nanni for two. They've been fan favorites at the end of games, putting the finishing strokes on big Irish wins. 
Notre Dame has not lost a regular season home finale in 15 years. Their last loss in a home finale was a 78-75 loss to Villanova in the 1971-72 season, Phelps' first at the Irish helm. 
College basketball roundup 
Pitt claims Big East title 
Associated Press 
Jerome Lane led Pitt to an early lead and the Panthers held on to beat Syracuse 85-84 for the regular-season Big East title Sunday as the college bas­ketball season wound down to conference showdowns and postseason tournaments. 
Lane had 18 of his 29 points before halftime and also finished with 15 rebounds for Pitt which scored 10 straight points after the Orangemen had taken a 2-0 lead and led by 14 with about five minutes gone in the second half before Syracuse whittled away at the lead. 
Rony Seikaly finally tied the score at 79, but Charles Smith had a basket and two free throws in the final two minutes to secure the victory for the seventh-ranked Panthers, 12-4 in the Big East and 22-4 overall. 
It gave them the first seed in the Big East tournament, which begins in New York on Thursday. The 12th-ranked Orangemen, last year's na­tional runner-up, finished 11-5 in the conference, 22-8 overall, and will be the second seed. 
In other games Sunday, No. 9 Duke beat No. 6 North Carolina for the second time this season, 96-81. But North Carolina had already clinched the Atlantic Coast Conference title. 
In other games involving ranked teams Sunday, No. 1 Temple routed Duquesne 77-57 in an Atlantic 10 quarterfinal tournament game; Illinois beat No. 11 Iowa 94-81; No. 14 Brad­ley beat Creighton 101-77; No. 16 North Carolina State defeated Wake Forest 86-82; and No. 20. Xavier Butler edged Butler 71-70. 
On Saturday, the NCAA tournament got its first five 
FIND YOURSELF S I T U A T I 0 N S Y 0 U ' D RATHER ·N 0 T BE I N ? ? ? . 


TRY Tt£ Fa..J..oiJt«; &orlGESTJ()IS, 
TAPE # TITLE 
Call 
6 Ei<PRESSJt«; IEATIVE TH:OOKTS 
fw FEEJ..It«;S 1 0 fbi TO SAY 't(J' 
Counsel Line 
239-779:~ 
M-Th 4pm-12am; 4 0 2 Sel.F AsseRTIVENESS F 

qualifiers, including second­ranked Purdue, which clinched the Big Ten title with an 80-67 win over Michigan. 
Also gaining entry were Cor­nell in the Ivy League, North Carolina A&T in the Mid­Eastern Athletic Conference, Southern University in the Southwest Athletic Conference and Southwest Missouri State 
in  the  Association  of  Mid­ 
Continent Universites.  
North  Carolina  A&T,  26-2,  

beat Florida A&M 101-85 in the finals of the Mid-Eastern tourn­ament and earned its seventh straight NCAA trip; Southern defended its SWAC tournament title with a 78-62 win over Grambling State; Cornell lost to Princeton 79-58 but clinched its first Ivy League crown since 1954 when second-place Dartmouth lost to Yale 79-78, and Southwest Missouri by beat Wisconsin-Green Bay 70­52 to win its title. 
No. 4 Oklahoma, meanwhile, clinched the regular-season Big Eight title while No. 8 Ken­tucky won the Southeastern Conference. Both, however, must now enter conference tournaments. 
And Hersey Hawkins, the na­tion's leading scorer, broke records set by two of the greatest players in basketball history. 
He broke Larry Bird's record of 40 points in a Missouri Valley Conference tournament game with 41 in No. 14 Bradley's 93-74 win over Indiana State which ironically got 21 points from Larry's brother Eddie. That gave Hawkins 1,014 points this season. 
------------~~---~-----···-----­
Monday, March 7, 1988

page 14 The Observer 
Six successfully defend Bengal Bouts titles 

3rd straight for Noone, Uhll 
By MARV MASTRO Sports Writer 
History repeated itself Friday night at Stepan Center as six boxers successfully defended their titles at the finals of the 58th annual Bengal Bouts. 
Leading the way was Boxing Club President Kevin 'The Vigilante' Duggan, who out­lasted Tim 'T-Bone' Reardon in the Junior Welterweight divi­sion, winning by a split decision to defend his title. 
Reardon, whose father, Tim, was a four-time champ, effec­tively used a stick-and-move attack to befuddle Duggan in the first round. 
"My style is always to come out and take it right to a guy," said Duggan, "And I was taking it to Tim, but he would catch me with a combination and then he'd move. It was frustrating me." 
However, it was Duggan who ended up frustrating Reardon by relentlessly pursuing him around the ring. Duggan's style is similar to one of those movie creatures that keeps on com­ing, no matter how hard you try to stop it. 
"My corner man, Andy Panelli, told me in the second round I had to move more with him. I tried to do that and at the same time still take it to him," said Duggan. 
Duggan's hard work paid dividends in the third round as he was able to land a pair of left-right combos against a tired Reardon, swinging the fight in his favor. 
"I'm not a good enough boxer to stop and throw jabs," said 
Duggan,  "I  have  to  really  
chase the gu y and  wear him  
out.''  

Junior Mike 'High' Noone wrapped up his third straight championship when Junior Troy 'Slam' Duncan was un­able to answer the bell at the start of the second round in their Junior Lightweight bout. 
Duncan's injured right shoulder prevented him from continuing against Noone, who spent the summer in South Bend training in a professional gym with NABF Junior Welter­weight champion Harold Brazier. 
"I think it helped me a lot, confidence-wise," said Noone, "I think my ability improved greatly since the last year. That's my goal--to improve every year even if I don't win. I'll be pretty happy with myself if I've improved over the last year." 
Noone can become only the fifth boxer in history to reign as a four-time champ if he is victorious next year. Mean­while, senior Tim 'TH' Har­tigan was more than happy with his defense of the Lightweight crown; a unani­mous decision over junior Mike 'Candy Man' Canavan. 
Hartigan used a stinging jab to keep Canavan off balance the entire fight. When Canavan worked past the jab, the right hand of Hartigan was waiting for him. 
"Mike (Noone) helped me out on how to move in and con­nect my jab," said ijartigan, ''The first couple of fights I was standing toe-toe and exchang­ing jabs with my opponent. Today, I was able to twist down and under and get in to throw combinations from the inside." 
Hartigan was in control the entire fight and impressed the 3,136 in attendance with his fluid technique. 
"I try to keep busy. Sean (McCormick) says one of the most important things is to keep busy and never be content with the way your boxing and try to set the ~ace," said Har­tigan, "Whenever there was a break I tried to be the aggres­sor and move in." 
Also retaining his belt was senior Dan 'The Anchor Man' Gamache with a unanimous decision over junior Chris 'Murph' Murphy in the Super Middleweight division. Gamache, who suffered a cut in the second round, fought back in the third round with a furious flurry that stunned Murphy. 
Senior Greg 'Skid' Rowe cap­tured a second Super Cruiser­weight title by winning a unan­imous decision over senior John Showell. The gutty Showel received his share of punish­ment from Rowe, but refused to back away from the cham­pion's hard right hooks. 
The final boxer to repeat as champion was senior Heavyweight John Uhll. Uhll won his third straight title by stopping sophomore Panos 'The Terminator' Tsicopolous at 1:35 of the second round. Uhll used two thunderous lefts to rock the highly-touted Tsicopolous into the ropes in the second. 
Uhll has never lost a bout in the Bengals. A broken foot forced him withdraw from a fight his freshman year. 
One former champ, junior Dan 'The Man' Quinn, the 1986 Super Heavyweight champ, failed in his attempt to regain his crown. Fellow football player Brian Shannon defeated Quinn by a split-decision. 

Shannon's work on the heavy bag showed in the third round as he scored repeatedly with body shots to deny Quinn. 
The evening got off to a fast and scary start. Sophomore John 'All Man' Manfredy reeled off eight straight punches to knockout sophomore Joe 'Doomsday' Dieterle 40 seconds into the first round to 
capture the Bantamwe1ght title. Dieterle laid on the canvas for about three minutes before getting up. 
In the Featherweight class, 
it was sophomore Tim 'The 
Shepherd' O'Laughlin defeat­
ing senior Eric 'Smilin' Feder 
by unanimous decision in a 
fight that served as sort of an 
undercard for the next three 
that featured Noone, 

The Observer I Mike Moran 
In the super curlserwelght division, John Showel lands a left jab on Greg 'Skid' Rowe (top). And In the heavyweight division, John Uhll forces back Panos "The Terminator" Tslcopoulos (right). Rowe eventually won his match In a unanimous decision, while Uhll was declared the winner when the fight was stopped In the second round. 
Hartigan and Duggan, respec­tively. 
Doug 'Boom-Boom' Biolchini was able to follow in his fa­ther's footsteps by outpointing fellow sophomore John 'Bull­Bull' Bastian in a unanimous Welterweight decision. His fa­ther, Bob, became a champion back in 1962. 
Another boxer with the nick­name 'Boom-Boom' brought home a title belt. Sophomore Chris Balint sent junior Mike 'Hello Holmes' Kelly to the canvas 50 seconds into their fight for a knockout victory. Balint used a right to the solar plexis followed by a right to the head to finish off Kelly in the Light Heavyweight division. 
The upset of the evening came in the Super Welter­weight final where the last seed, junior Mike 'The Ham­mer' Keegan surprised senior 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer. Call us arl-800-414-8!80, Ext. 91. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
MAGS 
Love, Jules, Andrea, Colleen, Ellie, Emily, Kara, Mich, MJ, and Joan 
Paul 'Nose' Gluckow on a split decision. Keegan fought with heart and desire to outlast fel­low Garden Stater Gluckow in a thrilling finish. 
Sophomore Vance 'Pretty Boy' Becklund, whose stature and style is reminiscent of Mar­velous Marvin Hagler, bloodied lanky junior Steve "Slim" Riedl with a hard right to the nose in the third round of their Middleweight title bout. Riedl survived the storm but lost the war as Becklund walked away with the belt. 
In the Junior Middleweight division, sophomore Ken 'Sting' Scheve defeated senior Andy 'Shakin' Baker on a unan­imous decision while · the Cruiserweight title went to junior Bill 'The Annihilator' Angrick who defeated fresh­man Kevin 'Special K' Kramer when the referee stopped the contest at 1 :33 of the second round. 

One of the biggest highlights of this year's Bouts was outside of the ring. Muhammad Ali, the former three-time Heavyweight champion took in the action from his ringside seat. Ali's association with the Bouts dates back to his friendship with Bouts founder, the late Dominic 'Nappy' Napolitano. 


16 YEARS AND OLDER ADMilTED 
--CILIDRATI -­
••••Ne a•EM'U 
in Ft. Lauderdale fO A.M. -6 P.M. -POOUIDI PA.TIIS 
Uve DJ. Emceeing Poolslde Contest • Water Volleyball Toumoment 
Free Deer Chug Relays • Free T·Shlrt Relays • The Deily Flop Contest ond cllmox the doy with ... The Wettest. Wet T ·Shirt Contest featured In Playboy Mogozlne Cosh Prizes • Free T·Shlru • and other giveaways 
Summers Gomes A.nd Wet \Voter rs VIdeos How On Solei!­
7 P.M.-I P.M.-COUI81 HAPPY HOU. 
UNIV. OF NOTRE DAME PARTY • HONDAY, I'ARCf' 1.4, 1983 
FREE SPRING OREAK '88 T-5HIRT WITH PAID ADM/55/0N FOR AOOVE COLLEGE STUDENTS OETWEEN 7 O'CLOCK AND 8 O'CLOCK WITH PROPER COLLEGE I.D. 
All OAR DRINKS AND DRAFT DEER-$.75 COMPETE IN CONTESTS FOR PRIZES! 
IVIIIIII8S 
SUMMERS on the beoch presents .. "FURY' Ft. Lauderdale's finest Rock·n Roll bond nightly PLUS 6 DaB to Serve You 

: UNIV. OF NOTRE DAME PARTY• MONDAY, MARCH 14, '88 
OHE f~EE DA~ ORIHK 0~ DP.AFT 0~ 10fT OPJHK -GOOD f~OM 7 P.M.  · 8 P.M. NIGHTLY  
!LIMITONEP£RMT()M(R)  
·  Summerl on the Deoch •219 S Atlonnc Blvd  •fr  louderdole  Flor1do •<J05) 462-~976  
'  (located If.! blocM nonh of Los Olos Olvd  on A 1 A>  
•  ADMIWO... POUCY, 18 Y!Hln. Or Old.,  

•••• CUP AND ~VE••••••••••••••.•.•.••.•.•• , •.••• CUP AND SAV£. •••• 


Campus 
Monday 
4:20p.m. Physics Colloquium "Quantum Chromodynamics and the Phenomenol­ogy of Hadronic Process at High Energies," by Cheung-Ryong Ji, North Carolina State University. Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Department of English Ward-Phillips lecture, Part II Theme: The languages of pain, literature, medicine, and the body. "Melancholy: The Pleasures of Pain" by David Morris, NEH Fellow in the Program of Humanities, Science and Technology. Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 7 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series ".Celine and Julie Go Boating," 1974, 193 minutes, directed by Jacques Rivette, France. An­nenberg Auditorium 7:30p.m. Basketball: ND vs. Hardin-Simmons. Joyce ACC 8 p.m. Student Union Board lecture "The Cycles of American History," by Arthur Schlesinger, CUNY, former presidential advisor to John Kennedy and Pulitzer 
prize-winning historian. Washington Hall 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Grilled Pastrami & Swiss Sandwich Fettucini Alfredo Southern Fried Chicken Sweet & Sour Pork 
Saint Mary's 

Breaded Pork Cutlets with 
Gravy 
Lasagna 
Potato Pancakes 
Deli Bar 

Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
Comics 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Curriculum unit 
7 Serene 11 Beetle 14 Plunder 15 Hautboy 16 "-Got a 
Secret" 17 Emissaries 18 Lowdown 19 Sandwich type 20 Shy 21 Unfortunate 24 Gladden 26 Dizzy 27 Daisy 30 Explosive 32 Diamond ­33 Rep.'s foe 34 Eng. city 37 Assistant 40 Gr. shipping 
magnate 42 Some horse­
shoe tosses 44 Ms Barrett 45 Printing type 47 Wernher ­
Braun 48 TV network 50 Take to court 51 Crinkled fabric 53 Thin linen 55 Hackneyed 57 Elite 60 Dims 64 Social 65 Loud sound 66 Vestigial 
wings 68 Table scrap 89 Golf club 70 -broil 71 "Norma -" 72 Appends 73 Sings Swiss 
style 
DOWN 1 Stuff 2 Anger 3 Sword 4 Small 
locomotive 5 Bank money: abbr. 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
U!'J/HEI.I fi/H()U (}PeN  
Pt»I?S fl.?lf YOCI. /  -fiNlWI-­ 
. . 11/H()U CH005e 7/i~  FINe  511Y 11/?tN'T .  
WIN~ 1fT /11NNCR /  WITH  Yt/11  
I«:J,+f~ WI((JU TIIKe  Me.  7s. /J'/Uf/5 .  
~VI? t/IIN/1/fN/1 /.elf/?YOf/ THRW&H 11 CI?OWI?/  I  t II'~~---'  

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
'10\j \(t()'fl OOt-1 1:)\.D l'8:lPlE ' 
t.LVI~~c; 'N~ITt mOCAA. ~~~. @A.~lMNI~G 1\-1~11\\EIR K.\05 lllt.'I£R. 'tiR.Ilt., CAU. ~ ~IS\F ~<H. l£m.RS. R9.\.l...'( 
C~C.I<. to\£ UP. 
-

© 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
03/07/88
All Rights Reserved 
6 Inventor 
Nlkola 7 Remark 8 Busy as ­9 Bank deal 
10 Of the mind 11 Not accept as 
true 12 Egg 13 Insurgent 22 Swears 23 Adherent of a 
Christian 
priest 25 Dregs 27 Smell 28 Allen: pref. 29 Free 31 Bank workers 35 12 36 Defendants In 

Roman law 38 Let fall 52 Give back 62 Br. prison 39 Serf of old 53 Teacher 63 Capitol Hill 41 Fur 54 "Norma" e.g. men: abbr. 43 Book man: 56 Boot country 67 Card 
abbr. 58 Rope game 




Sports 
Monday, March 7, 1988 

page 16 
Irish explode past Warriors 
Marquette shelled by NO's balanced attack 72-50 
Notre Dame's advantages. The By DENNIS CORRIGAN INSIDE first hoop came on a Jamere

Sports Editor 
Jackson 18-foot jump shot. 

Stevenson breaks out of slump
Notre Dame head coach Dig­Mter a TV timeout, Rivers 
ger Phelps said before Satur­........................................ page 12 drove the lane for a jumper and 
day's game with Marquette Robinson got a layup after 
that the Irish were due to ex­Irish face Hardin-Simmons taking a crisp bounce pass
tonight ............................ page 13
plode. It took the fuse just over from Rivers. Voce rebounded four minutes to burn before the 
a Joe Fredrick miss and Jack­

Irish went off, and when they had 12 points and nine son also scored on a rebound to did, it was a like a nuclear rebounds, Gary Voce added 11 complete the run. bomb hit the Warriors. and Jamere Jackson, who 
Tied at four with 15: 52 left to returned to the starting lineup The second half featured
-play in the first half, Notre in place of Stevenson had 10. much of the same, as the Irish Dame went on a 10-0 run and Notre Dame simply over­went on 6-0 scoring spurts three never looked back from there. whelmed the undermanned times and another spurt of 8-0. The Irish proceded to shell Warriors who had only nine The Irish shot 18-of-33 in the Marquette 72-50 in their most players on their bench. The second half for 54.5 percent. balanced performance of the Irish hammered them on the season. Five players, including boards 42-29 and outhustled "Hopefully we can play with four starters, scored in double them all around. Marquette that consistency going into the figures, as the Irish shot 34-of-didn't help its own cause, shoot­tournament," Phelps said of 64 (53 percent) for the game. ing 24-of-61 (39 percent for the his team's play. "I said we were due to get game). hot, and we did today," Phelps "I thought we played pretty Only Pat Foley (14 points) said. "We just· went out and hard, but wwhat hurts us was scored in double figures for the · shot the ball well today, which they have too many athletes," Warriors, who have now lost 10 is someting we hadn't done said Dukiet, whose squad straight to the Irish. Pop Sims against Vanderbilt." dropped 10-17 on the year. "I had nine and John Leurck David Rivers paced the at­think we did play hard and seven, as no other Marquette tack with 15 points. Mark quick, but we played against player scored more than four Stevenson, who had been in an athletes who run quicker, jump points. awful slump and didn't start higher and shoot straighter. "We missed a ton of layups," Saturday, made all six of his They jumped over us for Dukiet commented. "We cer­field-goal attempts and fin­rebounds." tainly have no one like Rivers sihed with 14. Keith Robinson The 10-0 run showcased all of who's a great player." 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Clearly it was time for Schafer. "We'll take this win, the lead. After .;tealing ~~1e game 3:05 into the second per­
Sports Writer revenge. savor it and savor the season puck, McNeill skated to the iod. Dearborn wasn't about to On Saturday night, the for the rest of our lives. right side of the crease and cry wolf, however, and when 
DEARBORN, Mich.-revenge, as well as the Amer-"It's a season we'll remem­made it 2-0 at 16:17 of the Duda drove down the left side Throughout the Cinderella ican Collegiate Hockey Associ-ber. Years from now when opening period. to score his second goal of the season of the Notre Dame ation tournament title, we're rocking in our rocking But this game was not to be evening, the crowd again came hockey team, the University of belonged to the Irish. Notre chairs, we can say, 'We had one a runaway. Just 37 seconds to life. Michigan-Dearborn kept rin­Dame (27-4-2) upended Dear-hell of a season that year."' after McNeill's goal, a sliding ging the midnight bell. born 5-2 in the tournament final Playing without the services Ron Duda scored a power play The Irish continued to hold 
When the Irish won eight after beating Lake Forest (12-of injured forwards Bruce goal that had the partisan the 3-2 lead at the end of two games in a row early this 12-1) by a score of 5-3 on Guay, Tim Kuehl and John Dearborn crowd howling. periods. season, Dearborn stopped the Friday. The Irish held a 10-19-1 Welsch, the Irish still wasted "Dearborn's a great hockey "I didn't feel all that comfort­streak. When Notre Dame fol­record last season, and this no time in taking an early lead team," said Schafer. "We had able after two periods," said lowed that up with a 14-game year's turnaround featured the over the Wolves. Tom Smith's to play our best game and have Schafer. "My feeling was winning streak, the Wolves best record in Notre Dame slap shot 25 seconds into the outstanding goaltending to whoever scored the next goal ended that streak. The Notre hockey history. game went past goalie Mike win." was going to win the hockey Dame seniors had never beaten "This is the culmination of a Klavon for the score. Notre Dame kept the mo­game." the Wolves at Dearborn in six very rewarding season for us," Later in the period, senior mentum in its favor when Bob 
see TITLE, page 12

tries. said first-year Irish coach Ric captain Mike McNeill extended Bilton's score made it a 3-1 
Irish take 2nd in region; r----8-e-ng_a_l-8-ou-ts-----~ six qualify for finals 
By PAT KEARNS souri's Doug Smith 17-4, and pinning Jon Anderson of Drake at 2:32 to win
Sports Writer 
his weight class. 

The Notre Dame wrestling team At 177 pounds, junior Chris Geneser finished second out of ten teams at the of the Irish also grappled his way 1988 Western Regional Wrestling through the winners' bracket to prove Championships held Friday and Satur­to be the best in his weight class. day at the Joyce ACC, finishing behind Geneser outmatched Drake's Rod only fifth-ranked Northern Iowa. Lyman 15-2, edged Northern Iowa's 
The Irish were good enough to send Doug Downs 10-7, and overcame an 
six wrestlers to the NCAA Champion­ankle injury to outscore Northern Illi­ships, one less than the Panthers' seven nois' Anton Kossakowski 10-3 to win. qualifiers. Andy Radenbaugh, Jerry 
Durso, Ron Wisniewski, Todd Layton The other Irish wrestler to win his Mark Gerardi and Chris Geneser all bracket was Andy Radenbaugh at 118 qualified for the finals to be held March pounds. The sophomore beat Scott 
17-19 at Ames, Iowa. Swanson of Northern Illinois on a tech­"We're extremely pleased," said nical fall, took Drake's Vance Light 14­McCann. "Six kids is the most we've 5, and defeated Craig Sterr of Eastern ever qualified. It's our best showing Illinois 7-6 for the title. 
ever." Notre Dame's three other advancing Durso was named Co-Most Outstand­wrestlers are Ron Wisniewski at 142 
ing Wrestler of the tournament al.ong pounds, Todd Layton at 150 pounds, and with Northern Iowa's Kurt Sheden­Mark Gerardi at 158 pounds. helm. Durso, at 134 pounds, was in ex­Wisniewski outscored Drake's Mike. 
cellent form on both days. The junior Ostander and Eastern Illinois' Dave For the third straight year, senior John stayed in the winners' bracket by pin­Marlow before losing on a technical fall Uhll · Is declared champion of the heavyweight division of the Bengal
ning Illinois State's Micky Marcchese at 2:27, decisioning Southwest Mis-see IRISH, page 11 







