
Freeze the
IACCENT: Dorm of the Week 
Hurricanes 
Cloudy, windy and cold 
today with a 60 percent 
chance of showers. High in

IVIEWPOINT: Women's roles in Church 
the 40s. 

VOL. XXII, NO. 36 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Ticket 
ND students pr1ces assaulted in skyrocket Pittsburgh 
By SARA MARLEY By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Staff Reporter Two Notre Dame band members were as­
If you want tickets to Satur­saulted late Saturday night in downtown Pit­day's game against Miami, be 
tsburgh after the afternoon's football game.prepared to spend a lot of Each received slash wounds to the neck. 
money. Regardless of the Freshman Mike Caldwell and sophomorescalping policy, tickets are 
Karl Schudt were treated and released from a being sold above and beyond Pittsburgh hospital following the assault. Both 
face value. 
returned with the band Sunday and attended According to various buyers classes and band practice Monday. 
and sellers of Miami tickets, The attack occured near the hotel where the 
the average price for a student 
band was staying.ticket is $50 to $100, and the The area was "pretty well lit, I thought," said 
average for GA's is at least Schudt. "I've been in worse areas of New York 
$100. Prices of student tickets 
City at night," Caldwell said. continue to rise as various clas­Nothing was taken from the Notre Dame stu­sified advertisements ask for dents and robbery does not appear to be a mo­the "best offer" for the tickets. tive. The students speculated the attack by
One student seller said she black youths may have been racially
probably could have recieved motivated. $75 for a student ticket. "I sold 
Caldwell, Schudt and two other band mem­it for $55, and I guess that's a bers were walking at approximately 11 p.m.lot, too," she said. when they were approached by six to 12 young
Other student sellers said black males, "high school age or early teens," they had bids of $50 and $60 and according to Caldwell and witness Chris that they would wait "as long Scherzinger. The youths acted together but as possible for the highest wore no insignia to indicate they were members price." of an organized gang.
The Observer1 Sheila Lombard
One student salesman said Airing out dirty laundry "We went across the street and they came $80 was his top bid. With regard over at an angle and intercepted us in the to the University's scalping The artist(s) of this sign beat the rush, urging ter with altered samples of St. Michael's street," said Schudt, who called the attack the football team to "Beat Miami," and laundry's finest. "completely unprovoked." 
See MIAMI, page 6 managed to adorn LaFortune Student Cen-See ATTACK, page 6 

Soldiers open fire on protesters, killing 25 

Associated Press 
ALGIERS, Algeria-Soldiers with heavy machine guns opened fire on protesters Mon­day, killing at least 25 people and wounding dozens, wit­nesses reported. At least 260 people have been killed in a week of violence. 
"There were bodies laying on all sides," a witness said. "The soldiers were piling them into trucks, one body on top of an­other." 
He and others who saw the shooting in the the Bab-el-Oued district reported several dozen people wounded, with some of the seriously injured taken away by ambulances. 
Reliable unofficial reports from police, hospitals and other sources say the weeklong uprising against high prices and the economic policies of President Chadli Bendjedid has cost 260 lives or more. No official casualty counts have been issued. 

Army helicopters armed with missiles made repeated passes over Bab-el-Oued at low altitude Monday, apparently trying to frighten the protesters. 
Monday's demonstration was organized as a "peaceful protest march" by the Islamic fundamentalist Movement for Algerian Renewal, which has made claims of leading the revolt, after the government its weekend ultimatum for Bendjedid's resignation. 
A marcher reported seeing the body of a teen-ager wrapped in a sheet 
Warning fails to halt unrest in Yugoslavia 
Associated Press 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia­Communist authorities put more police on the streets and imposed unspecified "urgent measures" in Montenegro's capital Monday, but protests fed by economic crisis and eth­nic tension did not stop. 
Protest has swept much of southern and eastern Yugos­lavia in recent weeks. Police used violent tactics for the first time over the weekend to dis­perse Montenegrin students and workers demanding the dismissal of local Communist Party leaders. 
President Raif Dizdarevic went on national television Sun­day night to appeal for calm, warning of unspecified emer­gency measures. 
Unrest continued Monday in Titograd, the capital of Mon­tenegro 280 miles southwest of Belgrade, and the regional party leadership held an emer­gency meeting, the official news agency Tanjug reported. 
Workers and 2,000 students at Niksic, 30 miles north of Titograd, rallied outside a gov­ernment building and in a steel mill where 2,800 workers were on strike for a second day, Tan­jug said. 
Police used clubs and tear gas to break up weekend crowds in Titograd and dis­perse marchers in Niksic who were on their way there. 
The Titograd rally was an ex­plosion of anger about hardships resulting from the 
See UNREST, page 6 


... 
•
The sound of silence and sculpture 
Visiting artist Joe Moss puts the finishing touches on his sculpture depicting a theme of sound near the 

-----· ~---­
Tuesday, October 11 , 1988
page2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
FatherTheodore Hesbu rg h, NotreDame'spresident emeritus, has been named a trustee of the newly formed Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom Fellowship Foun­dation of New York City. According to Peter Mullen, also a trustee and partner of the Skadden, Arps, Meagher & Flom law firm, the new foundation's purpose is to provide nationwide fellowships encouraging careers in public in­terest law and to support organizations which provide civil legal service to people otherwise unable to afford them. 
James Sterba, professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, has been awarded a Fulbright grant to lecture on "Peace and Justice" in the Soviet Union during the 1988-1989 aca­demic year. Sterba, a specialist in political philosophy and a member of Notre Dame's faculty since 1973, is only the second of this year's Fulbright Program philosophers to be accepted by the Soviet Union. Sterba is a faculty fellow of Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies and author of several books including Morality, War, and Nuclear Deterrance. 

OF INTEREST '.. 
El Salvador will be the topic of a slide show and discussion today at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. It will be conducted by faculty and students who visited El Salvador. -The Observer 
The Isis Gallery will be exhibiting prints by Dennis McWilliams from Oct. 11 through Oct. 28. Mr. McWilliams will give a slide talk in Room 200, Edna and Leo Riley Hall of Art and Design at 7:30 tonight. There will be an opening reception in the gallery following the lecture. -The Observer 
JPW Executive Committee is now forming. Juniors should pick up applications at the Office of Student Activ­ities, LaFortune, or from Chris Boron in 241 Pasquerilla West. All applications are due back this Friday. -The Ob­server 
Race Judicata is a three mile rull'\valkrace on Saturday, Oct. 29 at 10 a.m. on the Notre Dame campus. Proceeds go to the Legal Aid and Defender Association. A donation is required and a reception will follow. Registration forms are available in B-12 Legal Aid Office in the Law School and should be completed before October 15. -The Observer 
LaFortune Macintosh Computer Lab is now open in room 15 of LaFortune Student Center from 8 a.m. to 1 
a.m. Monday thru Thursday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturday, and Sunday from 1 p.m. to 1 a.m. -The Observer 
Learning.-Service Opportunity with handicapped adults in small L'Arch households is available in Toronto, Canada during fall break. Interested students should call Angi at the Center for Social Concerns, 239-5293. -The Ob­server 
The College of Engineering will sponsor a trip for Minority Engineering Students and Freshman intents on Oct. 27 and 28 to the General Motors plant in Flint, Mic­higan. Those interested may sign up in Room 118 Cushing Hall of Engineering. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
Design Editor .. ."............. Kathy Huston Design Assistant ........... Karen Newlove Typesetters... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tim Kieffer ............................................ Mike Kolar News Editor............. Kendra Lee Morril Copy Editor ............... Cindy Broderick Sports Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey Viewpoint Copy Editor ... J. Scharfenberg Assistant Viewpoint Editor .. L. O'Malley Viewpoint Layout.... . . . . . . Moira Fox Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike Restle 

Tate O!Mener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TW Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing Tate Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
TW O!Mener is a member of TW Auodaled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Accent Designer.......... Annette Rowland Typists ................................. Will Zamer ........................................ Diana Bradley ND Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski SMC Day Editor ............... Maura Reidy Photographer... . . . . . . . . . Sheila Lambard Ads Designer ............... Jeffery Stelmach ............................................... Debbie Ho ............................................... Chris Nee ............................................. Val Poletto 



'The Big Game' is a sort of homecoming 
I'm going to a family reunion this weekend. 
Compared to most students' plans of tail­gaters, parties, and The Big Game (I think we all know which one), a weekend of picnics, grandparents, Great-Aunt Minnie or getting to know my newest first cousin-once-removed-by­marriage hardly sounds too exciting. 
Luckily for me, this is a different kind of fam­ily reunion. I'll still get to go to the game, the parties and the tailgaters, but I'll also get to see all my brothers and sisters together for the first time since Christmas, 1986. 
Yes, this weekend my family is gathering this weekend at our home in South Bend. My sister and her boyfriend are flying in from Denver and my two brothers will drive from Chicago. My other two sisters, my parents, and myself will all be here waiting for them. 
For some it will be the first opportunity to meet Karen's boyfriend and some will meet Sheila and Wayne's six-week-old baby for the first time. 
Ours being a sort of "foreign study junkie" family has caused much of the apartness. Shortly after the last reunion, my sister took off for London. She returned in June of 1987 and ten weeks later I embarked on a ten-month stay in Austria. 
It became slightly unbelievable upon my return, as this same sister departed for London again just ten days after I got back from In­nsbruck. I moved into the dorm less than a week after she got back and she stayed at home. Even though "home" is only two miles away, between the two of us we have four majors, three jobs, and no car. It just doesn't lend itself to a lot of sisterly bonding. I do occasionally bump into her in the dining hall or around campus. 
Come Friday all that will change. For ap­proximately thirty-six hours, my five siblings, my parents and I will share a city. I can't even say we'll share a home because my family has outgrown our house--no easy task. I'll stay in my dorm here, because somebody else will be sleeping in my bed. My married sister, her hus­band, and their two daughters will stay in their own house. 
Despite the physical proximity, we probably still won't see each other all that much. Oh, we'll have a tailgater and Mom's famous lasagna after the game, maybe brunch on Sun­day, but there just still won't be enough time. 
Being the youngest of such a crew, I am used to our family being spread apart and seldom seeing one another. My oldest brother made the big move to campus when I was eight. Except for a few summers, our family has never been quite the same. Another sister came to Notre Dame the next year and went to Innsbruck, creating a precedent three of us would follow. 

::~:~News Editor A 

)~

i! (it
~p 
J· (I 
This was also the cause, however, of our first holiday season apart. I remember talking to a rather upset sister as she talked to us from a phone booth in rainy Madrid on Christmas Day, and I thought how I'd never want to be anywhere else but South Bend on December 25. Nine years later, I was on the European end of that transatlantic phone call. 
The family division continued as another bro­ther went to Innsbruck, missing my sister's wedding in the interim. My oldest sister returned and graduated, she decided the plains of the Midwest weren't for her and headed for the mountains of Colorado. 
It came as rather a shock to me to discover that we have been apart so long, although I have seen them individually since then. The last year we saw one another was the same year I graduated from high school. So much has transpired in my life since then. I don't even look the same. 
There's really no way to catch up on nearly two years in less than two days. None of us would give up our experiences abroad or our independent lives, but no one can restore the closeness that letters and phone calls just can't duplicate, especially with writing habits like ours. All we can do is enjoy this weekend and hope we don't have to wait two more years for another. 

e«tteJJe1 t t COP &CIDER GIVE 8WBY 
12-3 IN FRONT OF HAGGAR (SPONSORED BY SHC STUDENT GOVERNMENT) 
T-SHIRT SRLE OCT_ 10-12 DINING HALL DINNER ..Saint Mary"s College, always imitated, never duplicated."' $5.00 
STYLE SHOW DINING HALL DURING DINNER SEE FORMER UNIFORMS ON TODAV'S STUDENTS. 
fffl,OOill 5fTifl!;~fllW Cit A 
8:30-11 HAGGAR PARLOR 
sTUDENT ACTIYITIE~m ERIC KILBURN, ALL WELCOME..._, .1. .l. I I FREE PERFORMANCE. SAIBT IIARY'S COLLEGE 
Tuesday, October 11, 1988 

Fire in Lemans evacuates hall 
By LISA MONTPETIT Staff Reporter 
Arson is believed to be in­volved in a fire which occurred at 3:43 a.m. Sunday to a door on the second floor of LeMans Hall, according to Richard Chlebek, director of security at Saint Mary's. 
The building was evacuated when smoke from a burning door decoration triggered the alarm, Chlebek said. He added that no injuries were sustained. 
No suspects are being held at this time, said Chlebek. He said the situation is under an inves­tigation which "will involve in­terviewing several students to hopefully identify the respon­sible party". 
The fire caused $150 damage ity responded to the call that came over the fire alarm sys­tem, Chlebek said. 
The section resident assis­tant said the fire was extin­guished with water by a resi­dent before the fire department arrived at the scene. The two occupants of the room were in their beds at the time the inci­
dent occurred, she added. 
"I am shocked and I am surprised that someone would deliberately go and do someth­ing like that," the resident as­sistant said. 
Another section resident recalled being the first into the hallway after the alarm had sounded. "I left the room and saw the flames coming off of the door," she said. "I started 
The Observer 


page 3 


' ':';.., 
.~:J~: 
The Observer I Sheila Lombard 

pears to indimidate those who refuse to acknowledge the signs of things to come. 
Duplicating Pitt's defeat 
Even the University Copy Center at the Administration Building gets into the act with a spirited display. A Hurricane-hungry Fighting Irish football player ap­to the door and the carpeting, screaming and ran down the 
Chlebek said. hall pounding on the doors." "We feel this is a serious "It's a senseless prank or a 


Security Beat
matter," he said. "Fortunately deliberate act," said Chlebek. it involved minor damages and "We don't know at this time, 
Thursday reponed the theft of her sweat shin from the p.m. on 10/6 and 6:50a.m on IOn. The loss 
no injury or death. Any time and that's why the investiga­
1:30 p.m. A Notre Dame student reponed JACC Concourse between 3 and 4:30 p.m. is estimated at $90.00. 
you have a fire in a residential tion is being conducted." 
that his vehicle had been vandalized while it Her loss is estimated at $35.00. 
was parked in the C-2 Lot sometime between Saturday 9 a.m. and I p.m. Damage is estimated at 5:20 p.m. A Notre Dame employee
building, especially when it is 
Friday
deliberately set, you always Chlebek asked if anyone has 
reponed the theft of her purse and contents$500.00. 1:14 p.m. A Notre Dame employee
have that possibilty of not only any information relating to the 
I :45 p.m. A Notre Dame student reponed a from the Morris Inn sometime between 9:30 
reponed the theft of a sign from the football
larceny from his auto while it was parked in a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Her loss is estimated at
loss of property but of life too.'' incident to report it to security. 
stadium sometime between 5 p.m. on 10/6
the C-1 Lot between 10:50 a.m. and I p.m. $152.00.
and 8 a.m. on 10n. The loss is estimated at
The Notre Dame Fire Depar­Persons giving information 
His loss is estimated at $500.00. 

$50.00. Sunday
tment and Saint Mary's Secur-may remain anonymous. 
3:45 p.m. Security responded to the repon of a bicycle theft from the bike racks outside 

2:05 p.m Several Notre Dame students 
II :58 a.m. A Notre Dame employee 
reponed the theft of bicycles from the bike reponed the theft of three clocks from the
the Hesburgh Library. The student 's loss is 

racks at University Village sometime around Nonh Dining Hall sometime between 7:30 4:30a.m. 
estimated at $200.00. 
4:50 p.m. A resident of Pasquerilla West

-_ . ---. A-=Y=-..,&.-=--­The Crime of the Week is the dining rooms. These oak trimmed clocks and where they are now. 

----Ihe-Obse.-~~-­
theft of three battery operated clocks are 12 inches by 12 inches, Crimestoppers will pay up to a $300
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
clocks from the North Dining have black faces and gold colored reward for information leading to Commons. This theft occurred hands and numerals. The clocks the apprehension of the person 
hung approximately eight to 10 feet responsible for this or any crime at 6:50a.m. on Oct. 7. above the floor over the doorways. Notre Dame. The clocks were taken from the 
newspaper 
between 7:30p.m. on Oct. 6 and 

Notre Dame Crimestoppers Call 288-STOP-you don't have
Be a part of it. 
to give your name and you'll bemain lobby and the "D" and "E" wants to know who took these eligible for a cash reward. 

Heres amultiple choice quiz you really can't fail. In fact, it may even improve your G.P.A.: 
Should you buy one of our Macintosh'" Plus personal computers? Or one of our Macintosh SE personal computers? 
The answer, of course, depends. 
If you've been holding out for that ever-elusive combination of high perfonnance and affordability, you'll very likely want our Macintosh Plus. It has one full megabyte of RAM.l28K of ROM. And adouble-sided 800K internal disk drive. 
Translated, that means the Macintosh Plus can plot astatistical formula or repaginate areport in the time it took you to read this sentence. 
But-ifyou truly want to expand your horizons-we suggest the Macintosh SE. It has all the attributes of the Plus, plus alittle more. Like one megabyte of RAM, expandable to four megabytes. Awalloping 256K of ROM. As well as an expansion slot that lets you customize the system for your particular needs. 
And to ensure you have plenty of space for your growing intellect, theSE gives you achoice of two storage options. Either two built-in 800K disk drives. Or one built-in 800K disk drive along with an internal 20-megabyte hard disk. 
So even if your tenn paper begins to reach epic proportions, you can rest assured you'll have room for the whole thing. All six hundred footnotes included. 
Th learn more, visit your campus microcomputer center. They'll gladly :mswer any questions, including the one your parents will ask: 
How much? 
._ ti.The power to be your besr 
Tbi! Macinlosh Plus,poo~a11daffordable Th<• Alad11/osb SE, /JOitoerfula11de:rpmulable 

Computer Center 8:00AM-5:0b PM Room 25 Math Building 

Time was, earning an MBA put you head and shoulders above the crowd. 
But in the push and shove of the current job picture, the opportunity to stand out isn't just anywhere. It's right here. At General Mills Restaurants, Inc. Where we recognize your accomplishments. And more importantly, help realize your potential. 
By putting you in a position to make decisions. Assert your leadership. Have an impact. Not five years from now. But right from day one. 
Contributing your marketing or finance savvy to our thriving Orlando-based billion dollar restaurant organization. There's The Olive Garden, fine Italian cuisine set amidst a natural garden setting. 
York's, a unique self-service restaurant concept thriving in 1 00+ locations across 22 states. And of course, Red Lobster. Far and away the leader in satisfying America's growing appetite for seafood. 
An eclectic group to be sure. But sharing in common one great opportunity for a few well chosen MBA graduates. So ifyou're interested in being more than just a face in the crowd, join us Wednesday, October 12th, at 8pm-1 Opm for our presentation and reception in the Alumni Room at the Morris Inn. 
Or write to: MBA Employment, General Mills Restaurants, Inc., P.O. Box 593330, Orlando, FL 32859-3330. 
GENERAL MILLS RESTAURANTS, INC. 
RED LOBSTER® 
THE OLIVE GARDEN® 
©General Mills Restaurants. Inc. 1987 Equal Opportunity Employer 
Tuesday, October 11 , 1988 The Observer page 5 
Notre Dame Spirit Week kicks off 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER News Staff 
Two prominent Notre Dame professors, Head Basketball Coach Digger Phelps and a former basketball team cap­tain on Monday night dis­cussed the possibilities of 
combining  excellence  in  
college  athletics  and  
academics.  

In a lecture titled, "Can a 

University Excel in Academics and Athletics?" the four-member panel kicked off Spirit Week, a se­ries of activities designed to promote sportsmanship on campus. 
The panel included Phelps, former Notre Dame Basket­bctii cd}JL<1~U 7 • U~J-.::'I'KSOn, Prof. Thomas Morris and Prof. George Howard. Nathan Hatch, acting dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, mon­itored the discussion. 
The panelists agreed that varsity athletics and academics can successfully be combined. "We need a commitment from the Board of Trustees to get people who can do both," Phelps said. 
"I think we've seen in one situation a high priority for athletics and a neglect for academics, and the opposite in other schools, but this Uni­versity has done an excellent job over the last 30 years of allowing these people (athletes) to get degrees in 4 years," said Phelps. 
"Hopefully at ND we've taken a stance at preparing student athletes for the busi­ness world, but the most im­portant point is what the ath­letes have learned from the University and what they can contribute to society," said Tracy Jackson. 
"It is in the best interest of the athlete to diversify them­selves in other fields," Jack­son said of the problem of col­lege athletes working at their sport to the exclusion of academics. 
Speaking from the aca­demic point of view, Morris said athletes often are not challenged academically un­til they enter college, but that this should not create the mis­conception of the "dumb jock." 

Notre Dame Spirit Week kicked off Monday night with a panel discussion on University athletics and academics. The remaining schedule is as follows: 
TUESDAY: Spiritual Day 

"The Role of Christianity in Athletics" at 7:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
WEDNESDAY: Whole Health Day 
Videos, posters and broc­hures stressing the impor­tance of diet and nutrition will be available to all stu­dents in the North and South Dining Halls. 
THURSDAY: Athletic Day "CBS Sports on Campus" at 3 p.m. in the Hesburgh Li­brary auditorium. Partici­pants will include: CBS color analyst Pat Haden, CBS Emmy-winning college 
football producer Mike Burks and CBS manager of 
program  services  Teresa  
Ross,  a  Notre  Dame  
graduate.  

FRIDAY: Roll-out Day 4 p.m.: Campus picnic at Stepan fields. 7 p.m.: Notre Dame-Miami football pep rally at Stepan Center with guest speaker Olympic speedskater Dan Jansen. / 8 p.m. on: United Limo shuttle from Stepan courts to Coveleski Stadium for Notre Dame-Miami baseball game. 9·11:30 p.m.: Student dance in the JACC Fieldhouse, sponsored by 7-Up and featuring "The Groove" and free pizza, Crystal Lite and coffee. Four Italian racing bikes donated by Domani Foods and three complete Fisher stereo systems donated by Tyson Foods will be given away. Students must show ID to register and must be present to win. 
11 :50 p.m.: "Notre Dame Basketball's Greatest Hits," a video produced by Golden Dome Productions and spon­sored by General Foods shown in the JACC. 
Midnight: Scrimmage by Notre Dame men's basket­ball team with two 20-minute halves. Coca-Cola will give free full-color schedule posters to all who attend. 
SATURDAY: Game Day 

9:30 a.m.: Women's basket­ball scrimmage in the JACC. 
1:30 p.m.: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs. Miami Hurricanes in Notre Dame Stadium. 



NO Senate 'needs to take a new direction,' says Doyle 
By REGIS COCCIA tion," Doyle said, adding the Mike Carrigan to discuss the greater access to it and to dis­the Hall Presidents' Council, Senior Staff Reporter student government cabinet senate rule and how the senate cuss issues such as apartheid Doyle said. The Student Sen­will meet next week to discuss can address issues of concern and divestment, which concern ate, however, provides a forum 
The Student Senate needs to ways the senate can plan for to students. the campus. for discussing campus issues, take a new direction to start the future. "I think we started off the he said. planning and addressing "We'll brainstorm next year well, addressing things If the senate can be more campus issues, Student Body week, we'll evaluate ideas and like the alcohol policy," said open to student input and dis­"There really is time for us President Tom Doyle told the hopefully start moving forward Doyle. "Lately, the focus has cussion, he said, "It becomes to sit down and plan things senate at a brief meeting last as a student senate," Doyle been more towards informa­more a body of initiative than again," Doyle said, noting the night. said. tion dissemination." disseminating information." student government meeting
"The senate as a body has Doyle said he met earlier Doyle said he would like to Distributing information to next week. "Hopefully, some been somewhat lacking direc-with Senate Parliamentarian see the senate give students students is an important role of good will come of it." 
NOTRE DAME WELCOMES 


MICHAEL P. ESPOSITO, JR., 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
AND ALUMNUS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a presentation and reception on October 
12th at the University Club, Upper Lounge from 7 to 9 p.m. Mike 
warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty members 
who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in 
the Chase Corporate Controller Division. 

0 Chase Manhattan Bank 

---~ --~------~---­
page 6 
Tuesday, October 11, 1988
The Observer 

AIDS protesters to hold rally 
Associated Press Pentagon during the Vietnam The rally was organized as a War. mock trial with speaker after 
WASHINGTON-About 300 Monday's rally was outside speaker reading off a list of AIDS protesters rallied outside the vacant Hubert Humphrey "charges" against the admin­the federal health Building, which houses the istration as a "judge" stood by headquarters building Monday Health and Human Services nodding affirmatively at each in a warmup for a more intense Department. Because it was on count. demonstration planned today a federal holiday, the building in which they will try to block was deserted and surrounding "Guilty, guilty, guilty," the entrances to the Food and Drug streets were nearly vacant. crowd chanted as various Administration headquarters A small contingent of police charges were leveled. in nearby Rockville, Md. watched as a series of speakers A major focus of the after­
ridiculed the Reagan adminis­noon rally, as well as the 
Leaders of the demonstra­tration for what they said was demonstration planned Tues­tions have said they expect a criminally inadequate day, is to press for wide access hundreds of arrests in what response to AIDS and cas­to experimental drugs for they bill as a civil disobedience tigated the news media for not people suffering from AIDS, or action they hope will be the paying enough attention to the acquired immune deficiency largest since marches on the disease. syndrome. 
City of unrest 
Residents of Algiers survey the damage done in the downtown capital city of Algeria during recent days of unrest. The city is still under curfew. See related story on page 1. 


Attack 
continued from page 1 

The assailants verbally harassed the students, but got no response, said the students. They then hit Caldwell in the back of the head and then cut him and Schudt in the neck, the victims said. 
"We dove into McDonald's and they followed us in and con­tinued to assault us until the manager chased them out," Caldwell said. 
The Notre Dame students praised the quick response of the police and paramedics, who arrived "in two minutes, if that," according to Caldwell. 
Police were able to ap­prehend one of the assailants, but he escaped shortly after being taken into custody, ac­cording to the victims. 
Police officers and the res­taurant mananger said this was a unique incident, accor­ding to the band members. "They have gang wars often, but usually nothing against uni­nvolved persons," said Schudt. 
This was the first time band members were involved in an incident like this, said Luther Snavely, director of University Bands. 
"This is really that sort of thing that we hate to get too blown out of proportion ... We don't want to detract from the great win at Pittsburgh," Snavely said. 
"All of us know when you go to a city late at night there's always danger," he said. "It happened so quickly, they had no time to react." 
Phil Johnson, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame Security, stressed that band members and students must be cautious. "We have a concern for per­sonal safety for everyone, no matter where they are. We hope everyone sees the need to exercise prudence in an un­familiar area." 

Snavely and Johnson also stressed that this was not an incident specific to a large city like Pittsburgh. "This occa­sionally happens to students coming back to campus, too," said Snavely. 
Two Notre Dame Security of­ficers accompanied the band to Pittsburgh but were not pres­ent at the incident. "Our re­sponsibility when traveling with the band is to facilitate access, traffic and crowd con­trol and to act as liaison with the campus police there and with other agencies," said Johnson. 
have also received calls from those who have aided in finding 

Miami 
the location of sellers." 
continued from page 1 "If someone offers more than policy, he said, "I ask everyone face value for a ticket," he who calls to identify them­said, "we can deny the original selves; if they are students I ticket holder future ticket can look them up in the direc­privileges." tory. If I believe that they are a wrong party One ticket owner's answer­(administration), I say that I ing machine provided the fol­don't have any tickets." He lowing message: "If you are also said he wasn't worried calling for Miami tickets I about getting caught because already sold my two tickets for "it would be entrapment if they $100 each, however, I do know (officials) call and make a two law students willing to give false bid." them up for $75 each.'' The tick­
Bubba Cunningham, Notre ets were married student tick­Dame's ticket manager, said, ets which do not require a Uni­"I've been looking through the versity I.D. classifieds and I've gotten some numbers and locations of Mike Ramsden, a Notre those who are selling tickets. I Dame student, is hoping to find 
Kosovo province, where Serbs 

Unrest 

and Montenegrins are a 
continued from page 1 

minority to ethnic Albanians, austerity program the govern­also has stirred passions. ment imposed in May because Tanjug reported, without of a $21 billion foreign debt and details, that "urgent high inflation, which has measures" were imposed Mon­soared to an annual rate of 217 day in Titograd. It said later percent. The unemployment 1,000 construction workers rate is about 15 percent. called off a strike after local 
Concern for Montenegrins in party leaders promised to con­southern Serbia's troubled sider their demands. 

a student ticket for his sister. "Most people ask for $50, $60, $65, and I'm trying to buy one for $25." He said a common re­action to his price was, "You're kidding me." 
He recieved an offer of a ticket for $30, but says his sister won't pay more than $25. "I think the whole thing is out­rageous and funny. I get all kinds of calls --I can't even study," said Ramsden. 
One buyer who needed 15 GA's said, "There's a lot of tickets available.'' He said the average asking price was $65­
90. The highest asking price for oneGA was $200, according to this buyer. Another student said that for GA's 
.------------------------­
niversity of Notre Dame 
FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAMS 
APPLICATIONS FOR SPRING 1989 
PROGRAMS IN JERUSALEM MEXICO CITY AND CAIRO 
DUE OCTOBER 15, 1988 Return applications to Room 420 Administration Building Questions? Call 239-5882 
•• ~ • • ~ "' ,· .., .., , \ 'f f o1 0 ,. ,. "' } , ) ~ . ~-' ~ . .. ; 
~' -. '.. 

were $50-100 each. clubs. "Each club can pick two 
Jim McEachen, a senior, tickets for one game. Most bought a pair of GA's for $90. clubs picked Miami, "said Cun­"I got lucky," said McEachen. ningham. Senior Mike Wade paid $175 for a pair of GA's. Molly Fifty-three clubs had Miami McCarthy, a student, said she ticket raffles in addition to the has found that $50 to $125 per 20,000 ticket alumni lottery, GA and $75 for a student ticket said Cunningham. Three were average. hundred tickets are also avail­
able to alumni host clubs, he 
John Houlihan "just wanted said. tickets for some buddies." He said he bought GA's at face Selling Miami tickets may be value and was offered other profitable, but one seller com­tickets for $30 to $45. One other plained, "I get thirty calls a 
student paid face value for day. I'm trying to get rid of the GA's, buying them from a tickets. There is obviously a friend. great demand." 
Cunningham said it was pos-Cunningham agrees: "In the sible to get tickets for Miami last ten years these are the Notre Dame alumni most sought-after tickets." 


.. < 
.......... • <il-""~-·~ . 


One fish, two fish, red fish, blue fish 
The son of a current Saint Mary's student takes a few moments to reflect on life near the campus' soon-to-be-frozen lake. 
-***. ----.__.,_-­

Crash hurt, but the rich remain rich 
w-----~~--~---­
The Observer page7 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-The stock mar­ket crash wiped out some of their wealth, but according to Forbes magazine the 400 ric­hest Americans still had a total worth of about $220 billion, enough to cover the federal budget deficit for a year. 
Last year's Oct. 19 financial market debacle reduced the fortunes of many of the ultra­affluent 400 and caused 22 former members to be dropped from the list because their for­tunes slipped below Forbes' $225 million cutoff. 
Still, the average fortune on this year's edition of the annual list comes to $551 million, up $1 million from last year. 
The list appears in the Oct. 24 edition of Forbes and is based on holdings as of Aug. 30. 
The federal deficit for the fis­cal year that just ended was about $150 billion. The total na­tional debt is about $2.5 trillion. highest number of identified 
Sam Walton, 70, easily held billionaires with 34. the No. 1 spot for the fourth Runner-up to Walton on the year in a row, even though his billionaire list is John Werner net worth shrank by a whop-Kluge, the head of Metromedia ping $2 billion following the Co. with a net worth of $3.2 bil­crash. lion. 
Walton, head of the Next in line are H. Ross Arkansas-based Wal-Mart dis-Perot, the founder of count store empire, scoffs at Electronic Data Systems who his $6.7 billion in riches. He wants to overhaul the nation's calls it "just paper-all I own postal system, with $3 billion; is a pickup truck and a little publishers Samuel and Donald Wal-Mart stock." Newhouse, $2.6 billion each; 
By Forbes' estimates of and Pittsburgh industrialist worldwide wealth, Walton Henry Lea Hillman, $2.5 bil­rates fifth behind Japan's Yos-lion. hiaki Tsutsumi, $18.9 billion; Taikichiro Mori, $18 billion; Underscoring the adage that and Haruhiko Yoshimoto, $7.8 the more you have, the more billion; and Canada's Kenneth you can lose, billionaires were Cole Irving, $8 billion. among those hit hard by the 
The number of American bil-crash. Among the big losers lionaires nearly doubled in were David Packard, founder 1987, but Forbes' '88 list has of Hewlett-Packard, media only two additional bil-magnate Keith Rupert Mur­lionaires, bringing the total to doch and retailer Leslie Wex­
51. Japan has the second-ner. 

Bush, Dukakis court Italian-Americans, prepare for debate 
Associated Press and final presidential cam­
paign debate. 
It was a day that mixed cam-
George Bush and Michael paign rhetoric with colorful Dukakis courted the support of made-for-television images. Italian-Americans in compet­Dukakis proposed a plan to ing Columbus Day appear­make it easier for first-time ances Monday that left plenty home buyers to finance their of time to polish their lines in residences before marching in private for this week's second a Columbus Day parade up Fifth A venue in mid-town Man­hattan alongside Gov. Mario Cuomo, New York Mayor Ed Koch and John F. Kennedy Jr. 
Bush took a turn at a pool table in an Italian neighbor­hood in New Jersey, bouncing the No. 4 ball in the corner pocket while the morning pa­trons cheered. After that came 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a speech on crime.
I  Their daily campaign rounds  
The Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center  over, both men hustled back to  
for the Study of American Catholicism  their political lairs to resume  
preparations for their prime­ 
Announces the Annual  time debate later in the week.  
HIBERNIAN LECTURE "LOOKING THROUGH THE  Both camps said they ex­pected the 90-minute debate to be held at 9 p.m. EDT Thursday night on the campus  

LACE CURTAIN: THE IRISH-AMERICAN SEARCH FOR IDENTITY AT THE TURN OF THE CENTURY" 
Presented by : 
DR. TIMOTHY J. MEAGHER 
National Endowment for the Humanities 
Thursday, October 13, 1988 
4:15P.M. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
of UCLA, and the presidential rivals were flying to the West Coast today to prepare. 
The candidates exuded con­fidence as they began the final four weeks of campaigning. 
The vice president, a step ahead in the polls, said he was heartened by surveys showing him the leader across the South and in other key states. 
Countered Duk.akis: "This one is out there to be won ... We can taste it. We can feelit." 
Dukakis attacked Bush's record on housing issues in his first stop of the day. 
"George Bush has no housing program. He has no solutions," the Democrat said in a speech 
HAPPY B-DAY TRISH 
(SORRY NO PIX) LOVE, 



Class 

continued from page 1 0 KATHY 
HELP HELP U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 
After watching NO kill Miami, I U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 
will need a ride home(AkrooCiev.) 
U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 
Call Jeff at x3276 RIDE TO AKRON 
RATTLE AND HUM RATTLE AND HUM RATTLE AND HUM RATTLE AND HUM
JILl DAY 
RATTLE AND HUM RATTLE AND HUM
A.K.A. MA'AM, WONDER WOMAN, THIS NOTE'S FOR YOUI NOW WAIT AND SEE WHO CALLS. 
JAMES BOND 

NOW AT THE CELLAR THE CELLAR Rachel and Pat 
THE CELLAR Good luck In your scenell You THE CELLAR were destined to be Corinne and 
THE CELLAR 

.~~.~.'.'......................................................................... .................................................................................. 
THE SENIOR CLASS AND THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
is sponsoring 

Sr. Trip to the Bahamas send-off 
with The Famous Vacationers (Chicago Reggae Band) 

Thursday, Oct. 13 from 9pm -2am at ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
WEAR your shades and get you leis! ! (All ARE WELCOME TO JOIN THE FESTIVITIES!) 
in Levittown, a Long Island community that was the em­bodiment of the post-World War II boom in affordable housing. "He has no new ideas." 
But the vice president got the endorsement of 11 Progresso, an Italian-language newspa­per, which said the ''traditional values of Italian-Americans can be found in the electoral program of Vice President Bush. 
Italian-American Cuomo an­swered for Dukakis, saying, "Then they ought to change their name. From going for­ward -progresso --to going backward," he said. 
HEY BOB KELLY YOU STUD! WHY DON'T YOU BE QUIET EVERY ONCE IN AWHILE SO I'LL LEARN SOMETHING. HAVE A GREAT VACATION! LOVE YA'JILL 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KAREN MCNAMARA! LOVE, JENNIFER, CLAUDINE, AND YFR'S 
NEED MIAMI GA'S. SMC 43-49 
CHRISSY WISSY BOLDT WE TOOK UP A COLLECTION TO BUY YOUR OWN PLOP FARTS & OREOS. LOVE THE PEOPLE YOU WAKE UP 
CRAIG THE IRISH GUARDSMAN FROM ZELDAS SAT NIGHT, 3 SMC CHICS HAVE 
FOUND THAT LOVIN FEELING 
1 OF US THINKS YOU'RE CUTE. 1 LOVES YOU, 1 LOVES YOU MOREl RSVP ASAP 
TODAY MARKS 2 DECADES OF ANNE "BOTTEMS UP" BRODERICK ­
IN THE WORLD -WAHOOOOOIIIII AS WE SEE IT THAT'S 7200 BEERS FOR EVERY DAY ANNE'S BEEN HANGING AROUNDIIII THE RAGE IS ONIII IF SHE STARTS NOW SHE'Ll AT LEAST BE DONE BY MIAMI ­
HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY ANNE IIIII 
THE BARN­SWILL SISTERIIIIIIIII 
CHRIS "I SHOULD HAVE DUCKED" DIRKS I HOPE YOU'RE FEELING BETTER SOONI 
TO MY FAVORITE "DUDE" THANKS FOR EVERYTHING FROM THE FLOWERS TO THE GREAT TIMES (ESP. THE SOPH FORMALI) "ANNE-MARIE" 
HEY PEBBLES! HANG IN THERE THE 
WEEKEND IS COMING! WE'Ll LEAVE NO 
"CHORD" UNFINISHED AND NO S-WORDS 
UNSAIDII -THE MOUSE 
SMC FALL FEST TODAY 12:30-3 FREE 
CUP GIVE AWAY. STYLE SHOW DURING 
DINNER. T-SHIRT SALE AND CLUB TUES­
DAY 8:30-11 IN HAGGAR, FREE. 
CLUB TUESDAY TONIGHT AT SMC. ERIC 
KILBURN 8:30-11 IN HAGGAR FREE. 
CLUB TUESDAY TONIGHT AT SMC WE HAVE FREE ENTERTAINMENT AND FREE FOOD IN A GREAT ATMOSPHERE. SMC CLUB TUES DAY, WHERE YOU'RE FRIENDS ARE. 
NO TOASTMASTERS 
NO MEETING THIS WEDNESDAY. 
NEXT MEETING WEDNESDAY, 1()26. 
7:30 PM, 223 HH. " 

~~~~~~~~~~ 

--~ --~ ~---~----­






Viewpoint
pageS Tuesday, October 11, 1988 
Pope restricts women's potential 
This past weekend I read an interest­ing article in the Chicago Tribune about Pope John Paul II's recently issued apostolic letter entitled "Mulieris Dig­natatem," Latin for "On the Dignity of Women." As a woman, I was truly of­fended by the Pope's views on the role of women in the Catholic Church and on women's vocational responsibilities. While he claims that women and men are equal and should be treated as such, he fails in further comments to follow through on these claims. 
Margaret Egan 
guest column 
It seems that the Pope sees women as best realizing their vocational capa­bilities through motherhood (child­bearing), or through what he calls "spiritual motherhood," which refers to those women who remain celibate in order to devote themselves to a religi­ous order. In other words, women are truly useful to the Church only in these two senses. Somehow, this argument is just a bit too close to the outmoded stereotypical attitudes which would keep women "barefoot and pregnant." The Pope also clearly restated his view that women definitely should not be or­dained priests. His stance on this issue is based on the assumption that Jesus chose only men as His disciples because He felt that men would simply make better leaders. 
Actually, it would seem more reliable to say that Jesus did not choose women because at that time in history women did not have that kind of authority and therefore would have been less likely to influence potential Christians. But times have changed. An argument such as the Pope's is based, fundamentally, on the very premises of the inequality and discrimination which he refers to as a "sin." Accordingly, it appears that Pope John Paul II is contradicting him­self; on the one hand, men and women should be treated as equals, and on the other hand, women are unequally refused to serve their faith through the priesthood. 
Another disturbing point in the Pope's argument is his view that wo­men are basically distinguished by "feminine" characteristics such as "sensitivity." While some women do possess this characteristic, he here in­timates that men do not, or at the very least, that this is an undesirable trait in men. In a certain sense, one would think that a good characteristic for a priest to possess would be sensitivity to others. If women are in such great abundance of this trait, wouldn't it therefore follow that women would make excellent priests? Jesus Christ Himself was known for His sensitivity to others; does this make Him any less than the man who He was? 

The Pope also said that, even though women should strive for equality, this "must not under any circumstances lead to the masculinization of women." He is now dictating what the actual characteristics of femininity are. Since when does achieving simple equality lead to the masculinity of individuals? He claims that "the personal resources of femininity are certainly no less than the resources of masculinity; they are merely different." If a woman's re­sources are equal to a man's, she should be given the opportunity to enter into a male-dominated field, i.e., the pries­thood. Yes, of course these resources may vary, but the differences could only add a new dimension to what it means to be a priest. 
What's more is that the Pope ap­parently wrote this letter without con­sultation of other religious leaders. So, this is basically one man's opinion. But he is not just any man--this is our Pope and the leader of the Catholic commu­nity around the world. What he has just claimed will be Church teaching for the duration of his time as Pope. 
A unique aspect of being a woman is, indeed, her ability to bear children. But this is by no means the sole aspect and by no means the most important one. My argument is simple: Pope John Paul II's view on gender equality is just not in keeping with our times. We, both men and women, at this leading Catholic university should question religious teaching which seems so obviously to contradict itself. The women here make incredible sacrifices to gain an educa­tion which, in most respects, will be used outside of the vocation of mother­hood. Motherhood is certainly not a prerequisite for personal dignity. 
Margaret Egan is a sophomore cur­rently enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. 

All forms of sexism degrade women 
Dear Editor: 

"Jerks" was a really appropriate title for Bob McLaughlin and Kevin McKay's cartoon of Thursday, Oct. 6. The last frame read, "Fishing is a lot like scoping chicks; except when you scope, you throw back the big ones." Wow, what nerve! Apparently the two authors were busy making themselves feel good by insulting women in this same way last year when a series of articles about insensitivity and eating disorders came out in The Observer. 
"But it's such a small thing," you might argue. True, but it's a perfect example of the little things around our campus that build up to women feeling ashamed about their bodies and abusing themselves to cope with that shame. I must say that the two dorks in the cartoon look like they can't afford to be that picky, but it's too bad that they, or real guys with their attitudes, will miss out on meeting really beauti-
Garry Trudeau 


P.O. Box Q 
ful women in life who just may not look like Playboy centerfolds. It's your po­tential loss, but please realize that you're helping to perpetuate devastat­ing attitudes about women that we're all doing our best to overcome. 
Susan Hrach 
Walsh Hall 
Oct. 8, 1988 


Cartoon exudes chauvinist attitude 
Dear Editor: 
I found the "Jerks" comic strip in the Thursday, Oct. 6, Observer offensive, yet unfortunately typical of the per­vasive mentality at Notre Dame. The strip portrayed one fisherman saying to another, "fishing is a lot like scoping chicks; except when you scope, you throw back the big ones." 
While this establishes that the fisher­man is indeed a jerk, one wonders whe­ther the cartoonists (Bob McLaughlin and Kevin McKay) are capable of creating a joke. Reading this sort of 
80RS TURN&/? Otff 7lJ rATGI A 

RIZI-JNG FROM R&PQ!zyj 7HAT
t G/..IMP5& OF TH& 1?/56/?AC/3[) 

TH& 'N&tfl'BUSH «<A5 IN fiiCTH/5 
: P/?£5/fJENTlAL CANOil?AT&." 

&VIHWIN 5J<JPPY•.. " 
sexist tripe is a lot like vomiting, except when you do so, you expel the bile. 
Valerie Camarigg 
Off-campus 
Oct. 7, 1988 


Sexism prevails in offensive cartoon 
Dear Editor: 
Is there sexism on campus? Yes, I believe there is. This week I saw a young male student wearing a T -shirt with the saying, "No chick looks ugly after 2 a.m." What a horrible reduction of the human person to a mere object of sexual pleasure. But there is more. On Oct. 6, The Observer printed a comic strip called "Jerks" by Bob McLaugh­lin and Kevin McKay which ended saying, "Fishing is a lot like scoping chicks: except when you scope you throw back the big ones." What in­credible insensitivity. This is anything but humorous or responsible editing. Are these not forms of sexism? 
This spring, the American Bishops 
Doonesbury 

spoke out against these blatant and subtle forms of sexism in their first draft of Patterns in the Mystery of Redemption: A Pastoral Response to Women's Concerns for Church and So­ciety. In paragraph 41 they wrote, "Acknowledging the subtle presence of sexism and affirming the equality and dignity of women is only a first step. We must and do pledge to reject clearly and consistently human structures and patterns of activity that in any way treat women as a lesser worth than men. When our actions do not conform to our ideals, all suffer." 
I ask you to join the bishops in their regret and confess our individual and collective failures to respond to women as they deserve. Destroying stereotypes and honoring women with dignity must begin with recognizing these various forms of sexism. We must all further equality and dignity which women deserve. 
John J. Donato, C.S.C. Moreau Seminary Oct. 10, 1988 
" IN K&NNCBVNI<PORT, MAINS, 

"IT HA~ NOT 813EN A 6CXJD Wl381< 



Quote of the Day
H(JNIJREJ)S OF 5TlJNN&D N&/6H­

FOR TH& VIC& PR£31/JtNT. STIU.. 
HA! I KNEIAJ 
IT! I l<lltiAJ H& ti/A5N'T THAT TOU&H! 
I 

"If our students wish to dis­play their closeness as a student body and how much they care for their football team, the most valuable thing they can do is be as positive as possible in their support of this team." 
Lou Holtz 


IheOhserver 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-in-Chief ~~~··········~~·······················Chris Murphy Business Manager ..................... ~~~~~~~·· John Oxrider Managing Edltor ...................... , ......... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Aegis Coccia
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tllle University of Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of News Editor ··································~Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager...................... Bernadette Shilts the administration of ei~her institution~ The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Systems Manager~ ....~·········~~·······~~~ Mark Ridgeway
Viewpoint Editor~~~······························ Matt Slaughter Sports Editor......................................~ Marty Strasen Controlfer.......................................... Todd Hardiman
possible~ UnSigned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Com~ntaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Accent Editor~········································· Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager...................•..... Marga Bruns 
Saint Mary's Editor.......................~. Sandy Cerimele
IS available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on c;ompus, through letters, is encouraged~ 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 







1-.-.-------­
Accent
Tuesday, October 11 , 1988 

After the Fire, St. Ed's Lives On 
STEVE MEGARGEE  residents, making it the  junior Mark Purcell, who  
accent writer  second smallest men's dorm  serves as hall academic com­ 
(after Carroll). That's just  missioner with sophomore  
Constructed in 1882 to pro­ fine with the men of St. Ed's,  Mike Kautzky. "We're mixing  
vide housing for children  who cite that fact as one rea­ academic awareness through  
then attending Notre Dame's  son for the friendly atmo­ social events."  
grammar school, St. Ed­ sphere they see in this hall.  Another event to start at St.  
ward's Hall is one of the  "The small size encourages  Ed's recently is the St. Ed­ 
oldest structures on the Notre  people to get to know  ward's Hall Players program.  
Dame campus. Naturally, it  everybody in the hall," said  Since its inception in the 1986­ 
is most closely associated  Hall President Tim Flood.  87 school year, the Players  
with one of Notre Dame's  "People will go around and  have presented two drama  
more historical moments --the  meet more people, and that  productions on campus. The  
1980 fire that closed the dor­ makes for a better atmo­ Players debuted with "Love,  
mitory to students for a year.  sphere in the hall. It's a  Sex and the IRS," in 1987,  

 closely-knit hall. Most of the  and then performed "The Odd  
hall supports all its events,  Couple" last winter.  
cnr:t~ [ •• II ]of the  social and athletic." Those hall events have sig­nificantly increased over the last few years. One new event started this year is the St. Edward's Hall Forum, which  The Players have 60 mem­bers, including about 20 St. Ed's residents. They are re­sponsible for everything ex­cept the actual playwriting in their productions, which will  
~~~  features weekly presentations by various faces in the Notre  continue with a yet-to-be­determined play next semes­ 
l  r  Dame community. Recent speeches have included a  ter.  
St. Ed's will be forever as­sociated with that fire, and  Bush-Dukakis debate between former Ohio Governor John Gilligan and law professor Ed  "Father Mario (Pedi) was the rector my freshman year, and we used to do a play  St. Edward the Confessor, King of England from 1042-66, stands guard over the dorm that bears his name.  
renovations following the dis­ Murphy, and University Pres­ every year," said senior  hall was converted to a wo- St. Ed's choir headed by  
aster resulted in the forma­ ident Emeritus Father  Duane DiFranco, the original  men's dormitory.  Jayroe Stayer.  
tion of a wing to the dor­ Theodore Hesburgh speaking  organizer of the Players. "We  Gorski's arrival has  
mitory building. But  about the U.S. presidents he  wanted to still have plays  produced many new ideas for  So even after the fire, the  
programs recently estab­ has known. Future speakers  every year after Fr. Mario  the Sunday liturgies. Under  St. Ed's community continues  
lished by this men's dor­ include University President  left, so we formed the club.  commissioners Terry Brady  to thrive not just because of  
mitory, along with the unique  Father Edward Malloy and  It's going very, very well."  and Tom Hassett, the liturgi­ the history that comes from a  
elements of the dorm's popu­ Irish basketball coach Digger  Current rector Father Gene  cal commission has added  structure listed on the Na­ 
lation and architecture, have  Phelps.  Gorski, a former rector at  unique programs for the Ad­ tional Register of Historic  
firmly established St. Ed's as  "We were interested in  Howard Hall, is in his second  vent and Lenten seasons. Last  Places, but also because of  
much more than "the dorm  raising the academic atmo­ year at St. Ed's. He brought  year, a special Christmas  the spirit and new ideas being  
that survived the fire."  sphere by using social inter­ many of his former Howard  Mass was held that featured  produced every year by the  
St. Ed's houses about 180  action in the dorm," said  residents with him after that  the talents of the expanded  180 men of St. Ed's Hall.  


Appalachian Trip Broadens N.D. Education 
L 
KATHY LENNEY dents this fall, over twice the "I hope that the reason why Dame we have four years not lifestyle of people with accent writer number of students who at­the seminar is doing so well only to educate ourselves, but serious problems," said Ham­tended last semester. Dr. Mi­is because students have a to give of ourselves. There lin. iving beneath our Golden chael Mfleck, the co­deepening desire to care for are so many people who need During the seminar, stu­Dome among the lush ordinator of this seminar, others," said Mfleck. help in the world. I don't dents will study the economic, trees and peaceful lakes, it is believes that the increase is Sophomore Karen Mcintire think that one week out of my social and political forces easy for us to forget that life due to an awakening of the applied for the Appalachian life is too much time to give," which have brought about the for others is not as wonderful. spirit and consciousness of Seminar, hoping to help less she said. oppressive conditions in Ap­As we stress over our mid­the university. fortunate people. "At Notre palachia. Students earn one terms and anxiously await 
After experiencing this theology credit for their week the Miami game, it is difficult seminar, students will have a of social service. A final to understand that in other better understanding of the paper is required of all stu­parts of the country people Appalachian people. "From dents who participate. are fighting day to day to sur­their experiences in this semi­According to Affleck, the vive. nar, I hope that students will purpose of the final paper is 
learn about these people who to give students the opportu­
The Center for Social Con­suffer such great injustices. nity to reflect on their experi­cerns conducts a seminar They will see first-hand who ences in Appalachia. "The over fall break that strives to these people are and why esc hopes that the experi­help less fortunate people their lives are so difficult," ences students have will influ­living in the Appalachian said Affleck. ence them in some meaning­Mountains. Students in the Sophomore Kim Hamlin ful way. Writing a final paper seminar participate in a vari­hopes that her experiences will help students to integrate ety of activities, from spend­over fall break will give her a the lessons they've learned ing time with the mountain better understanding of the into their lives," he said. people to visiting centers for problems people face in Ap­Approximately $100 should elderly people and abused palachia. "You can read be enough pay for the children. Physical work can about poverty in a book, but registration fee, gas, and food entail such jobs as home to experience it is something for the week. This seminar is repair, gardening and farm else. The Appalachian Semi­offered both fall and spring maintenance. nar is a good opportunity for semesters. For more informa­
The program has a record kids to get out of their subur­tion, contact Dr. Michael M­
Participants In last spring's Appalachian trip fix the roof of a
high enrollment of 102 stu-ban world and experience the fleck at the esc, 239-7943.
house In Harlan, Kentucky. 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 


~--------------~~---~~-,..---------------------------.-­
..
,--­
Tuesday, October 11, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
n.o..n-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Cent.-, .:cepts classified lldvertlsmg from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.o..n-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of H-uo-Collge Cent.-, accepts claalfledafrom 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day claaalfleda Is 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ctw8ctenl per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-41182 
TYPING 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 
277-7406 
Matt "Schmeal" Gallagher lor VP 
TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Books for ALL cia-81111 evelleblel UN­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's Books, BOB Ho-rd St., just off of NO Ave. 233-2342. 
MULTICULTURAL WEEK GRAND FINALE -MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 et Bpm In Stepen Center. 239-7 442 & 284-4626 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12. 
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR TYPINGWORDPROCESSING 237-11148 
' LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH ON STEP­HAN FIELDS -CALL BRET 1389 OR 1376 
LOST: Gold Hoop Eerrlngll Call 284­5171 if found. PLEASE HELP ME FIND MY EARRINGIIII 
LOST: BUNCH OF ABOUT 12 KEYS MAYBE NEAR NO POST OFFICE. CALL JULI AT 239-6335. THANKS. 
FOUND: Man's black watch. Found after GrearvScrully concert. Call Chris at x3670. 
PLEASE Helpl I lost my StMary's Class Ring around Senior Bar or the Commons on 1G6. Initials EED (or maybe the name), BA, 83. Call 272-7065 or 299­4935. Thanks! 
STOLEN: Blue denim jacket from table by beck door of North Dining Hall. H you have ~. please return ~ to 100 Stanford Hall or call Chris at x2161. thenx 
LOSTfl GOLD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER STRAP. HAS A MOON AND SUN ON THE FACE. EXTREME SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE ... REWARD OF· FERED. PLEASE CALL AMY X1338 
LOST: GEOLOGY TEXTBOOK-THE EARTH'S DYNAMIC SYSTEMS 4TH EDmON. I MUST HAVE MY BOOKI A REWARD IS OF· FERED. IF YOU FIND A GEOLOGY BOOK PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1799 
Guess what I found? A gold framed pair of bifocals. Hyou care to obtain your vision, SEE ij you can call Stephanie at 284-4314. 
FORRENT 
I 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­211-7153. 
FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. 
Summer,yr.round.Europe,S.Amer., 
Auetrelle,Aelll. All flelde. SIOG-2000 mo. Slg,_.ng.FIM Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-11104, Coronal Del Mer,CA 92a25. 
OPPORTUNITY IN THE TRAVEL IN­
DUSTRYI 
The # 1 college tour operator is looking 
lor an efficient, responsible and organ­
ized campus representative to market a 
Spring Bresk trip on campus. Earn !rea 
trips, snd good commissions while 
gaining great business experience. For 
more information call 1-800-999-4300. 
Need ride to Pgh. for break-wiN pay. CJ x-4009 
I need a ride to the Washington, DC area lor fall break. Will help pay travel ex· penses. Call X2376. 
Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT.Ior only 
90.00 a month,right now or beginning of spring semeater.Call 3476. 
NEED RIDE to CHICAGO AREA Muat leave afternoon of 1014 Will shere ex­penses Call Kirk, 3790 
Need ride to1rom NYC. Can leave TH 
$$$. Call Jose 272-1936. 
RIDE NEEDED TO DAYTON I'd like to leave Oct 16, 17 and will pay lor gas. Mike # 3200 
DESPERATE! NEED RIDE TO PHILLY/ TRENTON AREA. WILL PAY $$11 NO RETURN TRIP NEEDED. LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER MIAMI GAME. CALL CHRIS X3364 OR X3375. 
NEED RIDE TO INDY 1014 AFTER 3:30 CALL TERESA 1367 
PROFESSOR NEEDS student to wash win dows inside&out. $5 hour. 232-()472. 
GOING HOME TO BAL TIMOR &DC AREA? HAVE ROOM IN CAR? ON LUGGAGE RACK? TAKE ME WITH YOUIIIIPLEASE? IF YOU CAN HELP A DESPERATE FEL­LOW DOMER, CALL LAURA 4934 SOON I 
IF YOU HAVE I HATE MIAMI TSHIRTS I NEED 3. CALL JILL 2575. 
DON'T JUST FLIP BURGERS! JOIN THE TEAM AT SCOOTER'SII OUR NEW 200 SEAT RESTAURANT WILL OPEN SOON AT 120 W.MISHAWAKA AV. WE NEED COOKS FOR LUNCH AND DINNER SHIFTS. AP­PLY IN PERSON. WORK IN A FIFTIES ATMOS PHERE FOR 80'S PAY. REMEM­BER,DINERS ARE FINERII 
YOUR FRIEND-SCOOTER 
SCOOTER'S, MICHIANA'S NEWEST 
200 SEAT RESTAURANIT IS OPENING SOON AT 120 W. MISHAWAKA AV. IN Mis­HAWAKA. WE NEED FUN PEOPLE TO WORK AS SO'S 
AND 60'S FOODSERVERS. AUDI­TIONS ARE NOW BEING HELD-APPLY IN PERSON-WEAR YOUR SADDLE SHOES AND GREASE BACKII YOUR FRIEND-SCOOTER-BEAT 
MIAMifl 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272·5959 ANYTIME. 
MACINTOSH 512K FOR SALE WITH FANNY MAC AND ALL MY SOFTWARE FOR $800 OBO. Nick # 
1423 
TWO PRINCE SPECTRUMS FOR SALE PRE-5TRUNG FOR $80 EACHI NICK 
# 1423 
APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­cluding keyboard, green-screan mon~or. disk drive, Hewlett Peckard printsr, Ap· pleworks word processor, blank data dis­ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283­
3481. 
FOR SALE ONE MIAMI STUD TICKET Best Offer Call Chris 1 052 
TELEVIDEO COMPUTER 10 MEG HARD DRIVE 1 FLOPPY DISK DRIVE KEYBOARD & MONITOR EXCELLENT CONDITION CPM 233-1101 FRANK 
Hotel Room Availeble lor MIAMI Weekend. Call Brendan x3598. 
Miami Stud Ticket lor sale to highest bid­der. Sara x4951 
Van Halen ticket 4 salel # 4915 
1980 DATSON 310GX COUPE, 5 SPEED CLEAN, GOOD MECHANICAL CONDITION, $995. 272-M77. 
King size bed, mattress, rails, box springs, bookcase headboard. Completa $100. Call 277-3014 anytime. 
3 MIAMI GA'S,2 AIRFORCE GA'S, 1 AF STUD BEST OFFER BY 6, # 4858 
TICKETS 
BIG MONEY 
BIG MONEY I Nead 2 GA's lor the Air Force Game. Please Call Dan at 3365 or my mom will kill me. 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6308 
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL MARY AT NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288­0988 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. 

HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15 Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete at 287-5871. 
NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS PREFERRABLY GA'S CAROLINE 283-3144 OR CARLOS 289-8417 
Ten Canadien hoseheads ere coming down lor the MIAMI game, and they're bringing Ice cold Canadien beer end 
• bunch of tunny looking money with them. They're offering both beer end cash for GAs. Good deal, eh? 
Cell Marty et 1471 

HELP! NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S 277-1513 
NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL JIM STYNES AT (BOO) 223·2440 EXT. 7772. 
NEED 4 USC TIX FOR "BOOGERI" ­CARL 4073 
I need Miami Tix 271-8311 
I NEED 5 AIR FORCE GA'8-KRIS x2804 
HELP! I have $90 and am DESPARATELY in need of two MIAMI GA's. Call JIM at x1010 
TORCH needs two tickets lor the Miami game or he will die. Call CHRIS at 3322 and keep the FLAME alive. 
NEED 3 TICKETS TOGETHER FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT 219­
482-8999. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI-NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP$. CALL 305· 981-9354 AND LEAVE MESSAGE. 
2 MIAMI GAS FOR SALE. CALL 415· 769-1248 BETWEEN 9AM-5PM PACIFIC TIME 
SOMEBODY MUST HAVE 2 PENN STATE GA'S-PLEASE MIKE X1628 
I nead 8 PENN GA or two sats of 4 Life or Death MEGABUCKS ollerred call Tim X1616 or Bruce 8-5p.m (313)628-4300· 
Looking lor 4 Penn State GA's -goodS -call Connell 232-6233 
Have 2 Miami Stud tix lor sale. Still in Desperate need of 2 Penn State GAs. Please call heather at 277-3268 after 5 p.m. 
2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOR SALE 272-61183 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S DESPERATELY CALL ED AT 299-6207 
I nead 2 Penn St. GA's. I have 4 AF GA's. II you are wiHing to trede, sell, or buy, please call John at 2099. 
NEED MIAMI GA'S BIG BUCKSIII CALL MATT AT (218) 484-9080 a AM -5 PM, 11-F 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR PENN STATEIII Will pay $$$$$.Please call MG at 284 5112. 
FOR SALE:2 STUD. TIX FOR AIR FORCE CALL 284-5160 
I NEED RICE TIXIII Let's be serious --you don't want to see us play Rice, but my family does. I need 8 tickets lor the game. II you can help, please call me at 283-1069 ask lor The Beeler. 
HELP ELP HELP HELP Need MIAMI stud tlx Bill 2445 
TIX 4 SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIR F. STU. # 1827 MAKE YOUR OFFER. 
AIR FORCE TIX FOR SALE 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD ALSO NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S CALL ERIC AT X3573 
NEED 10 Miami Tx. GA or Std. Would like in grps. of 2 If possible. 233-2651. 
WANTED: 3 MIAMI STUDENT TICK­ETS. CALL BRENT AT# 3065. 
Need 2 AF GA's. My parents sold theirs and then decided they wanted to sea the game. Mark 1913 
1 AIR FORCE STUD. FOR SALE CALL MATT AT # 3610 
FOR SALE-MIAMI STUDENT TICKET BEST OFFER 284-4335 
HELP! I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUDENT OR GA. MY FAMILY NEEDS A PLACE IN THE STANDS TO SEE ND BEAT MIAMI. CALL BRIDGET AT 284-5075 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY TOP$ # 1913 -JOHN 
Need as many AIR FORCE GA'S as pos­sible. Will pay any price. Michelle at SMC­4395. 
NEED 2 PENN ST. STU TIXI CALL EL· LEN X3706 
FOR SALE: AIR FORCE AND RICE STUDENT TIX -X4169 
MIAMI STUD TICKET FOR SALE I am a warm weather lriend--r60" and higher. Call Brian at x3670 w~h your sunny forecast. 
Will trade 4 A.F. GA lor 4 MIAMI CALL 283-2238 
One Miami student ticket lor sale. Best offer. Call Lou x1433. 
i-ii¥t:;;·ME'ii'i'..\~·iN-·oe.sPE'FiA1e.~e-Eo 
OF 4 RICE STUDENT TICKETS FOR MY SIBLINGS. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT AND LEAVE NAME, NUMBER, 
AND PRICE. 

HEY I NEED MIAMI STUDENT TIXII CALL TOM AT 298-4036. THANX MAN. 
FOR SALE 3 GAS FOR MIAMI 2 GAS FOR BOTH RICE & AIR FORCE (BOTH ARE 50 YD LINE) CALL JOE 2546 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S I CALL KENYON-1191 
NEEDED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S Call Steve at x3114 
HELPIII I NEED 5 AIR FORCE GA'S ... PLEASE, SELL ME YOURS. CALL GUY AT x3883 
Need 2 Penn State Tix(prefer stu­dent)Will pay $$! Call Rich at 3317. 
Miami Tix neaded. Need 2 MIAMI GA's and 1 stud. $$$$ KEN 297-5451 
I HAVE 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE! BEST OFFER. LIZ 284-4325 
in dire straits-need 3 Air Force GA name your price. call Tom at 1596 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's x1999 NICK 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S, AND 2 MIAMI STUDS. X1604 CHRISSY 
FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GA'SII CALL KERRI AT 2156. 
2 AF GA'S FOR SALE# 1165 DAVE 
2 Miami Stud lor sale best offer by Thursday call 2036 or 4456 
I need PennS!. tixs Stud or Ga Kevin x1024 
Need Miami GA Tickets. Big Bucks. Call Joe at 287-4561 after 6p.m. 
NEED 6 Rice GA'sl Will buy peirs. Call SCOTT # 1305 
I NEED TWO STUDENT TICKETS TO MIAMI ANY PRICE, ANY THING. CALL JOE AT x2212 
I need 2 tix lor USC Also 1 Air Force stud lor sale Jim 3371 
You WANT to satl ME your Miami Tix Will pay BIG $$$$ lor 2 Miami GA's Call MONTE at 283·1577 
I have MONEY lor Miami tix. Need 2 GA's or Stdt. Call Amy 3944 
I NEED 2 GAS FOR MIAMI CALL 2281 
1 MIAMI Stud. Tick lor sale! $HIGHEST Bid.$ Patrick 2727 
MIAMI TIX FOR SALE 
BEST OFFER BY 10 13 88 CALL X4118 SHEILA 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GAs IMMEDI­ATELY CALL X4111 
ONE MIAMI GA FOR SALE 
CALL 3580 

I wan1 to exchange my 2 MIAMI GA's and some$$ lor 2 MIAM1 stud. TIX. Call RON tue after 7 p.m. at 272 -4583 
NEED 2 Miami GAs Will Pay $$$ ancltlr trade 2 45-yard line Air Force GAs. Call John efter 11 pm 
# 1805 

Need 2 Miami Gas Will pay Big $$$ Call John After 11pm at # 1805 
AirForce $11 Pat 1027 
THREE MIAMI GA's FOR SALE Ill These tlcksts are on the 45 yd line 
Call Mike Bennetta at 516-746-5177 or call Brian at 272-3405 ( I'll give him your name) . 
MIAMI GA'S. Pair on 30-yd line. 
Will trade lor pair of Penn tix or take $. Call Jackie (212) 
713-1222. 

ONE AIR FORCE STUD TIX FOR SALE. WILLING TO TRADE FOR RICE STUD TIX 
CALL RICH X3580 
HAPPY DAYS!! WE HAVE FOUR MIAMI GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 6PM 1014. CALL 283-1181 ASK FOR JOHN OR DON 
MY UNCLE PHIL AND AUNT MARTINA CANT COME FOR MIAMI, SO WE HAVE TWO GA'S. CALL X1225 AND GIVE BEST OFFER BY THURS 6PM 
WE HAVE TWO MIAMI GA'S --CALL 1222 AND ASK FOR PAT--BEST OFFER BY THUR 
THE "FOUR NEAT GUYS" HAVE MIAMI TIX LEAVE BEST OFFER BY 1014 X1712 
I REALLY, REALLY NEED 2 PENN ST. GAS. LEE,# 1609 
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI TIX -STUD ­BEST OFFER BY 1013--CALL X2117 YOLANDA 
2 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE. X1170 
NEED MIAMI STUD. TIX. CALL JIM AT 2050. 
STUD. TICKS FOR SALE INCLUDING 2 MIAMI TIX. CALL BART AT 234·4422. 
4 SALE MIAMI TIX. BEST OFFER. 2871. 
PERSONALS 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check 
to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 
S. FIGUEROA, LA, CA 90037. 213-741· 1338. 
Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher 
Scott (St. Ed's) Happy 18th on the 18th Love Mom, Dad, Steve & Ami 
THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12. 
HELPII need a ride to Pittsburgh on Oct. 15 ASAP following the Miami game. Will share expenses. Mike x4141 
I NEEED 2 PENN ST. GA's NOWII WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL JASON AT x4141. 
JUNIORS FIRST DAY FOR DOGBOOK PICTURES BEAT THE RUSH AND GET IT TAKEN TODAY 7-11 BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
muat sell plane ticket from mishawaks international to newarkl flight leaves friday october 141 70$ or best offer call brian 3574 
I am looking lor 4 GA's to any home football game. I have very little money but I would be willing to trede my services as a photographer in exchange. Any size bleck and white portraits available. Hin­terested call # 3331. 
watch lor VIsion 
watch lor VISion 
watch lor VISion 

JUNIORS.. JUNIORS .. JUNIORS Appa evellable lor JPW Executive Board Pick up In Otllce of Student Actlvltl•. Due Fri. Oct. 14 by 5pml 
RIDE NEEDED TO PH ILLY lor break; will pay $ Call Dan 1765 
"TO THE BEST SISTER IN THE WORLD", "I'LL BE UP TO CELEBRATE YOUR BIRTHDAY, ELIZABETH CRISP. PUT SOME BREW ON ICE. 
"NEXT TO YOUR MOTHER, YOU ARE MY BEST GIRL", HAPPY BIRTHDAY EUZABETH-ANNE CRISP, 
DAD 

RIDERS NEEDED to Houston, Texas Leaving 1013; returning 1<¥.!3 Call Brian at x3670 or Mike at x2647 
Sarah J At first I thought to follow hot on passion's flair, now I lang-iuish lor a true-love's bliss. Pray tell, is your heart taken? Please respond. 
-One who's Interested NEED 1 MIAMI STUD. CALL MIKE# 2238 

I NEED HELP! Anyone have a Tandy 1 000 TX Professional Write or Partmastere Manuel, PLEASE call Mar­cey x1339 
LOSII GOLD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER BAND SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN B.P, ZAHM, AND CUSHING. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL AMY X1339 
NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO, NY OCT 14 FOR BREAK? CALL JEN 284-4385 
0 glorious St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in mirades, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful interces­sor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to you I heve recourse, snd from the depth of my heart I humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my aid. Help me in my present and urgent peti· lion. (Petition). In return I promise to meke your name known and to cause you to be invoked. Amen. Say 3 "Our Father"'s, 3 "Hail Mary"'s, and 3 "Gioria"'s. Publi-rcation must be 
promised. Thank you, St. Jude! 
ROBOCOP ROBOCOP ROBOCOP COMING THIS FRIDAY, DON'T MISS IT! 
NEED RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS 
AFTER MIAMI x1999 NICK 
I NEED ONE HOTELMOTEL ROOM 
FOR SATURDAY, OCT 15. 
IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL 
SAM AT 239-6696. 
KRISTEN STAMtLE 
Saw you (many times) at Soph. 
Formal. You really looked great! 
Wish you would've been home when 
I called to inv~e you. Hope to 
meat you sometime. 
J.R. 
THE NOTRE DAME QUARTER MILE 
You don't have to look like Flo 
Joyner 

THE NOTRE DAME QUARTER MILE 
You don't have to break e s-et 
Mr. "X" Got your note. Who aro you What football player do you know? 
Hey duck woman, don't do anything pat­hetic on your b-dayl We love you 
WANT TO PURCHASE T SHIRTS CATHOLIC S VS CONVICTS CALL 2511-0600 
BUT WHERE TO PERFORM THIS CLOCKWORK MURDER? PICTURE THIS SCENE: PEOPLE IN COSTUME DANCING UNSUSPECTINGL Y IN SOUTH DINING HALL, THE HALLOWEEN SPIRIT HOVERS IN THE AIR ... THE 
BLOOD WILL OOZE BUT THE SCREAM WILL BE LOST IN THE CROWD ... 
KERRY W: 

We really like your savage tanl 
How did you avoid tan·"nes? 
Love, Heather snd Amy 
HELP!! Ride needed to Binghampton, 
Syrecuse,lthaca; will share $$ 
Please call 3944 and leave message 
SHANNON RYAN. juat two words of advice.. CHILL OUT Ill 
Hey Diana, 

A most Happy Birthday to you II 
From Me, 
Tu Camarada 
KAREN ON YOUR BIRTHDAY WE WISH YOU WELL YOU'RE AN AWESOME A.A. CUZ YOU NEVER YELL WHEN WE SING OR SCREAM OR RAISE HOLY HELLI SO HAVE A GREAT DAY, IT'S YOUR 21ST WE LOVE YOU SO MUCH, WE ALL JUST MIGHT BURSTIIII!I THE FFF 
DUFUS got drunk. DUFUS had fun. 
DUFUS hed a happy birthdeylll 
Thanks MIKE, SMITTY and SPOOG. 
see CLASS, page 7 
Tuesday, October 11 , 1988 The Observer page 11 

Farley eyeing championship 
By ARTHUR GOLLWITZER Sports Writer 
Farley continued on the road 
to the women's Interhall foot­
ball championship Sunday af­
ternoon with a tough 12-0 win 
over Lyons. . 
Farley's quarterback, Col­
leen McGillis, had a hand in 
both touchdowns. The first was 
on a 10-yard pass, and the 
second a quarterback keeper. 
The game's key defensive play 
was provided by Kim Koz­
lowski, who, with Lyons on the 
Farley five-yard line, surged 
through the line of scrimmage 
and intercepted a pitch. 
"It was a very competitive 
game," sa.id Farley captain 
Karen Lynch. "We worked well 
together as an entire unit. We 
really came together." 
The win improved Farley's 
record to 6-0, leaving it as the 
only undefeated team in the 
league. 
Lewis 16, Howard 8: Lewis ad­
vanced its record to 5-1, good 
for second in the standings, by defeating Howard, which won its opener but has dropped three straight, fell to 1-3. 
Christine Wall meyer started the scoring for Lewis with a center sneak for a touchdown, which was capped off by a two­point conversion by Sue Lippa. The winning touchdown was on a run by Valarie LaManna. 
The game was a very even contest until the end, when Lewis added the margin of vic­tory. 
PW 13, Knott 0: PW pushed its record to 3-1 with a win over Knott. 
Quarterback Jill Bodensteiner rushed for the opening touchdown, and Heidi Hansen added the second. The PW defense also played well, as shown by an impressive fourth-down stand on its own 15-yard line. 
"Both the offense and defense looked good, but our special teams could use a little work," captain Tanya Pieters said. 

Siegfried 8, Badin 0: In a de­fensive battle, Siegfried prevailed to raise its record to 3-1. 
Throughout the game, Badin (0-6) showed signs that it might earn its first victory, but mis­takes proved to be its downfall. Every drive was limited by penalties. With two minutes left in the game, an intercep­tion was turned into the win­ning touchdown. 
Breen-Philips 7, Walsh 6: This game featured Sunday's longest run from scrimmage. A 70-yard dash by Kristy Alkidas was enough for BP (2­
2) to win its second straight game, keeping slim playoff hopes alive. 
BP's win would not ave been possible without some great de­fensive play. Linebacker Al­lison Devers came up with two key plays to stop a Walsh drive. 
Wheaton hands Belles first defeat 
By MARY KATE COYLE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team traveled to Wheaton last weekend College and lost for the first time this season, 6-3. The Belles went into the match with a 17-0 record after defeat­ing Saint Francis on Thursday, 6-3. 
"We were at a disadvantage going into the match, without our number one singles player, Jennifer Block , who is out be­cause of illness," said coach Deb Laverie. "This moved everyone up a flight." 
Men 
continued from page 16 
last week," said Stanford cap­
tain Tom Walsh, referring to a 
6-0 setback courtesy of Alumni. 
"We had a few mental mis­
takes but we came through on 
the key plays." 
Stanford ends the regular 
season witha 3-1 record, while 
The Mayer sisters, Sarah and Ellen, both won in straight sets at No.3 and No. 4 singles. This put the Belles at 4-2 going into the doubles competition. 
The Belles fought it out in doubles, but only the No.2 team of Charlene Szajko and Sarah Mayer won. 
"I was disappointed because our goal was to be undefeated," said Laverie. "I do think it may be a blessing in disguise, for it may bring about the good mo­tivation we will need to have going into state." 
The Belles have shown that they are team that has the skill 
Zahm heads into the last week of play at 0-2-1. 
Pangborn 20, Carroll 6: Pangborn tallied its first win of the season in the biggest offen­sive game of the rain-soaked day. 
Martin Somerville plunged in from three yards out and Rus­sell Jones caught a 35-yard pass to pace the victory. Butch Vicenzio recovered a fumble and dashed 65-yards for a and competitiveness needed to be a winning team. The real test will come when the Belles go to Anderson to compete in the state competition this weekend. 

"If we all give 100 percent we can do it," Sarah Mayer said. "If some only give 99 percent, we won't be able to win it. I think it's important that we all go in there with positive atti­tudes." 
The Belles travel to Manchester College today to complete the regular season. 
touchdown to cap Pangborn's scoring. 
Sorln 6, St. Edward's 0: Mike Cowden ran in from the three yard line during the second half to lead Sorin to victory over an injury-laden St. Ed's squad. 
"We lost a few guys during the game and our quarterback has been out since the first game," said Steve Schmidt, St. Ed's captain. "We've been struggling offensively all season." 
Sorin remains unbeaten at 2­0-1 and St. Ed's falls to 1-3. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO Women's Track Club is having a brief organizational meeting today at 7:30p.m. in Howard Hall's 24-hour lounge. If unable to attend, please contact Linda at x2563 or Wendy at 684-4052. -The Observer 
Frank Starns, Wes Pritchett, George Streeter 
will be guests on Speaking of Sports tonight on WVFI-AM 
640 from 10 to 11 p.m. Join host Greg Guffey and Jamey 
Rappis by calling 239-6400 with questions about Irish foot­
ball. -The Observer 
The Rolfs Aquatic Center will reopen at 8 a.m. on Wednesday. Open hours will be 8 a.m. till 4 p.m., and 6:30p.m. till10:30 p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday. -The Observer 
Grace Hall won the NVA cross country race. Carroll finished second, while Morrissey and Zahm tied for third place. In the individual standings, Dave McCain placed first with a time of 12:50, Jeff Miller was second at 13:01 and Paul Del ave third at 13: 10. -The Observer 
Transportation is available to and from Friday night's Notre Dame-Miami baseball game at Stanley Coveleski Stadium. Three buses will leave from the pep rally (after its conclusion) to the stadium and will return to the Joyce ACC afterward. -The Observer 
The ND'SMC Ski Team has its turtlenecks back. Anyone who plans to go to Steamboat or try out for the team must attend the meeting today at 8:30p.m. in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. For those planning on going to Steamboat, bring a $100 deposit to reserve a spot. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club will hold a meeting today at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. Mter break, meetings will be held in O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team, which 
defeated Calvin 3-0 Saturday, will host Northwestern 
tonight at 7 p.m. at Krause Stadium. 
SMC soccer downs IU 
By JANE SHEA SMC Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's soccer team snapped a five-game losing streak Sunday when it defeated Indiana University 1­0. 
Trish Troester scored the only goal late in the second half. Rain delayed the game, but the Belles came out ready to play. 
"Our patience paid off," said senior Anne Szweda. "We all played well." 
In the first half play was fairly even. The team was able to get the moumentum going for the key plays. 
"We really needed this win," said coach Tom Van Meter. 
"The players off the bench gave us the extra hustle we needed." 
The Belles lost 1-0 to Wheaton College on Saturday in another tight contest. 
"We controlled the game, but we could not get the ball in the net," said Szweda. 
The Belles played a good game but were not able to score. Much of the play was around Wheaton's goal. 
The Belles host Notre Dame Thursday. In their last game against the Irish, the Belles lost 
after an emotional loss to the University of Wisconsin. 
"The quality of the game was even last time," said Van Me­ter. "We hope for a win, but we know it will be difficult." 
IBM CORPORATION 
Mr. Paul Murray of IBM East Fishkill, NY will be on campus Thursday, October 13, from 7 -9 pm in Room 106 of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. He is interested in discussing employment opportunities for mechanical, electrical and chemical engineers expecting to graduate in May, 1989. 

action pass or throwing deep. "It's the most dangerous
Speed 
group of skill players we've seen from a Notre Dame foot­
continued from page 16 
ball team," Johnson continued. 
tion. He attacks the corner of "Any one of them can beat you. the defense when he runs the They have as fine an offensive option. On top of that, he can backfield as I've seen." be effective with the play-Johnson also mentioned his 
AftEITIOI JUNIORS! 
Now acceptin8 applications for JPW Executive Committee! 
Available in Office of Student Activities or from Chris Boron in 241 P.W. 
Due b 5 Frida Oct. 14th 
concern about the speed in Notre Dame's kick return duo of sophomore Ricky Watters and freshman Raghib "Rock­et" Ismail. Watters has returned punts for touchdowns against Michigan and Purdue, and Ismail shows off his 4.28 40-yard dash speed when re­turning kickoffs for the Irish. 
"Their return men may be as fast and talented as you'll see in the country," said Johnson. "Ricky Watters showed against Michigan and again against Purdue that he's one of the better return people in the country. The freshman, Ismail, is averaging 29 yards a kickoff return. We're really concerned about him. Those two people, I'm sure, are ranked among the tops in the country in returning." 
The Hurricanes have been stingy with punt return yar­dage all season, allowing a total of 32 punt return yards in five games. Kickoff returners are averaging 17.8 yards per 
return against Miami. 

... 
,-----­
---~ ---­

The Observer Tuesday, October 11, 1988
page 
12 

------------~-­
DEAN WITTER CAPITAL MARKETS 
Invites All Accountancy, Finance and Economics Majors To A Presentation On 
Opportunities In Corporate Finance 
Morris Inn The Notre Dame Room Wednesday, October 12, 1988 8:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. 

Tuesday, October 11 , 1988 The Observer page 13 
• 
......--••••-••:••--•••••••----•
\ ' 
-~­

,  
,  - 
.... _ '··,  ••..,.,  
4  
-­ '  _;. """'"'"' "  .,......  

Photo courtesy of Miami Sports Into 

Miami pitcher and Milwaukee Brewer draft pick Joe Grahe, 13-5 with a school-record 11 complete games, will lead the Hurricanes into Covaleskl Stadium Thursday and Friday for a two-game series with 
the Notre Dame baseball team. Over 33 media requests from the state of Florida have been received for the game and at least five buses of fans will make the trek to South Bend. 
hits and struck out six as he became the first rookie to win

Rally 
two games in the playoffs since the format was adopted in 1969.

continued from page 16 
In Game 2, Belcher allowed 

With two outs in the ninth, five hits in 8 1-3 innings as the Gibson beat out an infield hit, Dodgers beat the Mets 6-3. then appeared to reinjure his Marshall led off the fourth left hamstring stealing second with a single and, after a walk and left the game. Jose Gon­to John Shelby, Dempsey zalez ran for Gibson and scored doubled down the left-field line the Dodgers' seventh run when on a high fastball. Mike Marshall tripled to right­Dempsey was signed as a center. non-roster player last spring by 
In all five games, the the Dodgers after hitting .177 Dodgers have scored first, this for Cleveland in 1987. He time breaking through for missed the last half of 1987 three runs off loser Sid Fernan­after suffering a broken thumb dez in the fourth inning on 39-in a collision at home plate with year-old Rick Dempsey's two­Kansas City's Bo Jackson. run double and an RBI double As a catcher for Baltimore in by Alfredo Griffin. 1983, Dempsey was the World 
Belcher, who won Game 2, Series MVP and is 20-for-61 in 
set down nine straight before 21 postseason games. 
Len Dykstra led off with a walk 
in the fourth and Gregg Jef· Griffin, a .167 batter hitting 
feries singled. right-handed, followed 
Belcher, who won nine of his Dempsey's hit with a double to 
last 11 decisions, allowed seven left-center field. 
IP----------------~
OPENING SOON I 

I I 
I ffi®mrnill 9~ I
I I
South Bend's Newest Restaurant 

I Now accepting applications for: cooks, 1 I busers, servers, etc. Benefits, paid I1 vacations, 0/otips I 
Part time 8-20 hours

II I
Full time 40 hours or more 

I I
Apply from 1-7, Monday-Friday 

I Very close to campus I I phone 277-7678 I I I
I I
S.R.23 
2046 S.R.23

II f -· g_i •• 
I I 
~----------------~ 
•

Eagles w1n NFC East battle 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-Randall Cunningham threw for 369 yards and three touchdowns as the Philadelphia Eagles beat the New York Giants 24-13 in the NFL monday night, and barged into the thick of the NFC East Division race. 
Cunningham completed 31 of 41 passes as the Eagles, 3-3, moved into a tie with the Giants and the Washington Redskins, one game behind the surprising Phoenix Cardinals. 
The Eagles snapped a six­game losing streak against the Giants in their first Monday night appearance in seven 
years.
The Eagles defense was led by end Reggie White's 21/2 sacks and constant harrying of 
Giants quarterback Phil Simms by tackle Jerome Brown and end Clyde Sim­mons. 
The Giants took a 3-0 lead 
8:32 into the game on a 47-yard field goal by Raul Allegre. The drive to a first down at the 
NFL may extend trade deadline 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-The time frame to consummate the controversial trade with the Indianapolis Colts for offen­sive guard Ron Solt might be extended beyond the NFL's Tuesday trading deadline, the Eagles announced. 
The Eagles acquired Solt from the Colts last week for a 1989 first-round draft pick and other, undisclosed draft choices. 
But Solt refused to report to Philadelphia without a $400,000 bonus to bring his new five-year, $2.6 million con­tract to his original demand with Indianapolis, $3 million. 
"The window of time allowed for Solt to report to the Eagles could be extended beyond tomorrow's trading deadline per agreement between the two clubs," Eagles President Harry Gamble said Monday night. 
Gamble also denied the Eagles were considering trading Solt to another NFL team, as rumored. 
The Eagles contend that if Solt fails to report and take a physical, they are entitled to the return of the draft picks. The Colts have said the deal stands, whether or not Solt reports. 
Solt is on the Eagles' roster, although he is not being paid. He was deactivated for the Monday night game against the New York Giants . 
Philadelphia 32 was triggered 12 yards to Keith Byars and 19-Byars to make it 14-3 with 25 
by a pair of 16-yard com ple­and 17-yard throws to Cris seconds left in the half. 
tions from Simms to tight end Carter. Mark Bavaro. The Eagles made it 17-3 on 
The Eagles went ahead 7-3 The Giants then drove to a their first series of the second with 9:28 left in the second per­first down at the Eagles' 18, but half as Luis Zendejas hit a 37­iod on a 12-play, 80-yard drive, Simms was intercepted and yard field goal. Cunningham capped by Cunningham's 4-Philadelphia took over at its 7. completed passes of 34 and 12 yard pass to Jimmie Giles. Cun­Cunningham directed an 11-yards, and Anthony Toney ran ningham completed eight play, 93-yard drive, capped by 17 to move the ball to the passes in the drive, including a 4-yard touchdown pass to Giants' 10. 
in the following track season man combination that made up 
after the IC4A meet at Vil­for any bad days that the front continued from page 16 lanova. After running poorly, runners had. season: captain Dan Garrett the three future leaders of the Four: Surprise. and Rick Mulvey. team--Dan Garrett, Ron Especially due to their ter­
"Attribute it (the team's suc­Markezich and Mike O'Connor­rible performance the previous cess in 1987) to very good lead­-got together and committed year, no one expected the Irish ership from our seniors, Dan themselves to start over, run­to challenge the top schools. Garrett and Rick Mulvey," ning with new strength, "Last year we'd go to a meet said 14th-year Irish coach Joe dedication and vigor. and no one knew who we were. Piane. "Garrett is the best cap­Piane witnessed this pact No one expected us to do well, tain I've every had. He's not and said later that "they made so there was no pressure on only a great leader by example a commitment and nothing was us," said senior Ron but he knows what to say to the going to get in their way." Thus Markezich. runners after a meet. He's marked the new attitude of the Five: Confidence. really an excellent leader." Irish. According to Garrett, this is 
Rick Mulvey was more of a "Last year (the 1987 season) the most important reason for silent leader, but his dedication was really super because the Irish success in 1987. Gar­to the sport and attendance of everyone focused on what we rett himself had enough confi­practices without fail served to needed to do," said junior Tom dence to finish sixth in the inspire the rest of the team. O'Rourke. "The team really NCAA meet and achieve All 
Two: Dedication. came together." American honors. 
In the District IV meet at the Three: Depth. The team got its momentum end of the 1986 season, the Irish With the addition of two rolling in the previous track were embarrassed with a 15th­freshmen Ryan Cahill and Pat season when the Irish top three place finish out of 26 teams. Kearns, the 1987 cross country runners, Garrett, Markezich That was the end of their team had an extraordinary and O'Connor, all broke the the season. It was a low point for amount of depth that it lacked Notre Dame record for the 5000 the Irish and they needed to get in 1986. Teaming up with Mul­meters. This incredible ac­back on track. vey, these three formed a very complishment served to in­
The Irish got back on "track" effective fourth, fifth and sixth spire the team and give it con­
fidence. 

Run 
"Running cross country has a lot to do with confidence," said O'Rourke. "Once you get
Woodrow Wilson School 
it rolling it's like a snowball. If you don't have the confidence
of Public and 

you're not going to race well." The Irish got the ball running 
International Affairs 
in 1987 and have kept it going ever since.
Princeton University 
Graduate Education for Careers in Public Affairs 
International Relations Development Studies Domestic Policy Economics and Public Policy 

Presentation and question-and-answer session will be held with a Woodrow Wilson School representative. 
Date:  Thursday,  October 13, 1)33  
Time:  lQ :JO  a.m.  and  LOO  ;J. m.  
Place:  see  Career Placement  Office  


1""""'"------------~----------~---------~-~-~ 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, October 11, 1988 
• 
ND impressive at powerful regatta 
The Rowing Club competed in the Head of the Rocks Regatta last weekend in Rockford, Illinois. 
Out of the 17 teams that participated, Notre Dame placed very well in nearly all the categories where the Irish were represented. Some of the big-name schools that partici­pated were Wisconsin, Cincinatti, Iowa, Northwestern, and 
Greg Scheckenbach 
Club Corner 

Chicago. Along with the universities, Notre Dame also competed against the highly touted Milwakee Rowing Club. 
In the men's divisions, the Irish were very consistent by taking fourth in both the open four and open eight person boats, and a sixth place in the lightweight four­person boat. 
The women faired a little better in the regatta. They grabbed an impressive second-place finish in the lightweight four person boat along with two fourth-place finishes in the heavyweight four-person boat and the open eight-person boat. 
The high point of the regatta was in the mixed eight person boats. Notre Dame rowed to a second and fourth­place finish in this highly competitive race. 
The Sailing Club participated in a regatta at Purdue University last weekend. They performed outstanding on a day that was not very pleasant for sailing. 
Overall, Notre Dame tied for second place with Purdue. Ohio State won the 13-team regatta by destoying all other competitors. 
The duo of Paige Cooper and Juli Peleva won the "A" Division, while Watts Hudgens and Theresa Herman were runner-up in the "B" Division. 
Next weekend the Sailing Club is scheduled to compete in a regatta at Ohio State University, but might not attend because of some trivial football game. 
SMC volleyball squad falls in straight games 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team didn't put up much of a fight Saturday as Tri-State Uni­versity ran away with the match in three straight games. 
Earlier this season, in tourn­ament play, the Belles defeated the Tri-State team, which is one of the best in the district. Revenge was on their mind as they shut out the Belles in the first game 15-0. 
Saint Mary's retaliated by jumping out to an early lead in 
Upset 
continued from page 16 
blockers and more important­ly, those waiting at the 10 foot line where her kills landed. 
Senior outside hitter Kim Thompson added to the offen­sive onslaught with 23 kills and also played well off the net con­tributing 19 digs for the Wildcats. 
But even with strong perfor­mances from many Kentucky players, the Irish held onto the momentum gained from four game two but the Belles just couldn't hold on as Tri-State prevailed 15-9. Game three didn't prove to be any better for the Belles as they suffered a 15-5 loss. 


"Defense was our biggest problem," commented sopho­more Melissa Phillips. "Mter the first game we just couldn't pull ourselves together. Our confidence was low and every­one was frustrated." 
The Belles will have a chance to rectify themselves as they take on Bethel College Thursday at home. 
consecutive home wins to take the upset and move up to fourth in the Midwest Regional poll after being ranked sixth last week. 
"We've got good momentum right now," said Lambert. "I know they can win. Now they have to know because feeling like they can win is knowing how." 
Wide receiver John Jackson and USC climbed college football poll. Miami is still No. 1, UCLA one spot to third in the latest Associated Press No. 2 and Notre Dame No. 4. 
Irish now fourth; Miami still No. 1 
Associated Press 

Mter a win on the road in Pit­tsburgh, Notre Dame climbed to No. 4 in the Associated Press college football poll. Miami, UCLA and Southern Cal remained in the top three spots. 
The Irish replaced Auburn, which fell eight spots to 12th after a 7-6 loss to LSU. 
Indiana's Hoosiers, ranked in The Associated Press college football poll for the first time this season, welcome the na­tional exposure but can't forget the years of struggle it took to get it, Coach Bill Mallory said Monday. 
Indiana, improving each year since Mallory's winless rookie season in 1984, earned the No. 18 ranking on Monday after an impressive 41-7 victory over Ohio State. 
"The way I look at it, it's good exposure. It's important, but the big thing is we have our minds on the job each week, and the poll will take care of itself," said Mallory, whose Hoosiers are 4-0-1 for all games and 2-0 and tied with No. 15 Mic­higan and unranked Illinois for first place in the Big Ten Con­ference. 
The only blemish on In­diana's record was a 28-28 tie with Missouri. 
"It's good, but it boils down to what we do on Saturday, and tom, when Mallory succeeded Sam Wyche and became the third Indiana coach in three seasons. Mallory inherited a five-game losing streak and lost all 11 games in 1984 before the turn-around began. The Hoosiers were 4-7 in 1985, 6-6 in 1986 and 8-4 last year. 
"You never forget where you've come from and how you got where you are. You have to remind the younger players, too, who haven't gone through the things these other players have to be aware of what's gone into putting this program where it is today," Mallory said. 
"Never allow that attitude of complacency to sit in. That'll cut your throat quicker than anything." 
Since the start of the 1987 season, Indiana's 12-4-1 record is the best among all Big Ten teams, and the Hoosiers are no longer sneaking up on their op­ponents, Mallory said. 
"I know the teams we play aren't surprised any more. They're all cranking up for us on the field. As we go along, people will begin to realize this." 
UCLA remained No. 2 for the fifth week in a row by beating Oregon State 38-21. The Bruins received one first-place vote and 1,051 points. 
Southern Cal, which had the remaining three first-place votes and 1,012 points, was third for the third straight week following a 42-14 victory over Oregon. The loss dropped the Ducks out of the Top 20 from the No. 18 spot. 
Notre Dame, a 30-20 winner over Pitt, took over the fourth spot with 932 points. Florida State defeated Georgia South­ern 28-10, its fifth straight vic­tory since being routed by Miami, and climbed from sixth place to fifth with 817 points. 
COPY EARLY COPY LATE COPY WEEKENDS 
When you need a full service copy shop before work or after hours. depend on Kinko's. 
kinko•s· 
the copy center 
18187Stale Road 23 
271-0398 

that's where our focus of atten-..-----------~~-------...1 
tion is," Mallory said of the na-•++++++++++++++++++Jill 
tional ranking. T Q .., It's also important, he said, + n October 14th the + that his players remember it + M: h" J 5 • ty
wasn't so long ago that the foot-J"UC lana azz OCie • ball program was at rock bot-: is sponsoring the first of its • 
t . JAZZ CONCERTS : + The first concert in the series + + will be at Knollwood Country Club ++ at 9:00pm · + 
+ Featuring: ++ Saxophonist Rusty Bryant ++ of the Blue Wift ++ along with +
+ 
The Steve Schmidt Trio + : Season Memberships ar avail~ble for ++ $} 0 the day of the concert + 

+ 
For more information call : • 288-1339 • 


···················~ 

Tuesday, October 11, 1988 
CAMPUS 
Noon Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "'Lo Popular' as a New Basis for Collective Action: Chilean Shantytown Organization Under the Authoritarian Regime," by Philip Oxhorn, Harvard, 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4:30p.m. President's Address to the Faculty, Washing­ton Hall. 
7 p.m. ND Women's Soccer vs. Northwestern Univer 
sity, Moose Krause Stadium. 
7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Tw Weeks In Another Town," directed by Vincent Minnelli, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Graduate Student Union General Council meeting in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 210 Center fo Continuing Education. 
9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "All Tha Jazz," directed by Bob Fosse, Annenberg Auditorium 
DINNER iv1ENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Italian Beef Sandwich Meatloaf 
Roast Turkey Chicken Fajitas 
Shrimp Fried Rice Vegetable Chow Mein 
Baked Noodle Casserole Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
-----------~------------------------------~ 
The Observer page 15 
' 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD ,. 

ACROSS 
1 Wound mark 5 Tall-tale 
tellers 10 Sour 14 First-rate 15 Aileen Quinn 
role 16 Fast-food 
fizzer 17 Insurance, e.g. 19 Was aware of 20 Sir, in Sevilla 21 Giant Mel 22 Range roamer 23 Actor Torn 25 Takeoff 27 Reading desk 31 Church 
instrument 57 Sag 61 Zoo sound 62 Owner 64 Skirt style 65 Judith 
Anderson vehicle 66 Barrett or Jaffe 67 Gershwin 

portrayer 68 Isaac of music 69 Garment 
closing 
DOWN 

1 Enervates 2 Center 3 After a while 4 Answered 
sharply 5 Varnish ingredient 6 " -each life
.. 

7 Santa-, Calif. track 
8 Noisy 

24 Urges onward 32 Nary a soul
disturbances 
26 Permission 35 Evert
9 Indonesian 
maneuver

27 At the end of 
coin 

the line 36 Relaxing 
10 Activity for 
28 Verdugo of 38 Travel 
Barbara 
Walters 

Welby, M.D." rehearsers
11 Peacekeepers 
29 Illegally 43 Ongoing 
12 Thought: 

transported hostility
Comb. form 
goods 46 European
13 Early morning 
30 Christie's peninsula
18 Pa. port of 

"Death on the 48 Moslem judge 
entry 

50 Plumed heron 
22 TV's Gertrude 
33 Lotion ingredient 34 Doing a lube job 37 Need of 68 Across 
39 Transmit 
40 Treads heavily 
41 Blackthorn 
42 Explosive 
43 Weak 
44 Quaker William 
45 "Tempest" sprite 
47 Boxed 
49 Treated badly 
52 Sailor 
53 Receded 
55 Actress Scala 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Berke Breathed The Far Side 
51 Electron tube 53 Writer Bombeck 54 Bring to a 
bubble 56 Mimic 58 Midwestern 
tribesman 59 Chaplin's 
widow 60 Baby buggy 62 A.M. followers 63 Operated 

Gary Larson 

Buzz McFiatop Michael F. Muldoon 



How the human egg Is often deceived. 

, 


Sports 
Tuesday, October 11 , 1988
eeye 16 

Johnson worried about impressive Irish speed 
By STEVE MEGARGEE anyone who saw Miami domi­
with times like that, and that's dimension is they're so effec­Assistant Sports Editor nate Notre Dame 24-0 last (sophomore receiver) Randal tive running the option. Notre season at Miami's Orange Hill," Johnson continued. "We Dame runs the option as well 
Under normal circum-Bowl. When Hurricane don't have that kind of speed. as anyone. They have the same stances, a football game be­receivers Michael Irvin and When you take the top skill power attack as Michigan, who tween Notre Dame and Miami Warren Williams weren't busy players for Notre Dame, I don't gave us all kinds of trouble." could be stereotyped as a running past the Irish second­know if any school in the Miami is averaging just over matchup of the size of the Irish ary to turn short passes into country has a faster group, this 100 rushing yards allowed per versus the speed of the Hur-long gains, the Miami backs is according to the times in the game, while the Irish are run­ricanes. were outrushing Notre Dame press guide." ning for more than 300 yards 
If that's the case, then Miami 204-82. Miami already has faced two per game. coach Jimmy Johnson believes But Johnson points to the of the nation's top rushing at­Johnson cited Rice's emer­this game is a definite excep­Notre Dame press guide as all tacks in Florida State and Mic­gence as a primary weapon in tion to that rule. the evidence he needs to argue higan. The Hurricanes held the Irish attack, but he had "When you compare Notre that things are different this FSU to 42 rushing yards en praise for all of Notre Dame's
Jimmy Johnson

Dame's times to Miami's man time around. route to a 31-0 victory, but Mic­skill players. per man, you'll find them "Year in and year out anyone Brooks and Mark Green run 4.4 higan rushed for 167 yards in "Tony Rice gives us con­faster at Notre Dame than at who knows about football (40-yard dash), Tony Rice a losing 31-30. cern," said Johnson. "He's 
Miami, and that's probably a knows Notre Dame is as 4.48, they have wide receivers "It (Notre Dame) is a differ­playing much more aggres­shock to many people," said talented a team as there is in with great speed and their cor­ent style of offense, similar to sively this year and has ex­Johnson in a teleconference the country," said Johnson. nerbacks and free safety run Michigan's in that they have tremely improved on the op-Monday. "The difference this year is under 4.4. the power attack," said That certainly would shock they have great speed. Tony "We only have one player Johnson, "but there's an added see SPEED, page 11 
Alumni alone at top LA, Gibson with perfect record down Mets 
Associated Press By DAVE McMAHON the season as Dave Fisher hit Sports Writer Dave Shaw with a 10-yard NEW YORK-Rookie Tim 
touchdown pass for the lone Belcher won his second game 
After a day when terrible score of the defensive battle. of the playoffs and Kirk Gibson weather marred the playing "With the exception of a few hit his second straight game­field, Alumni remained the penalties, everything went real winning homer as Los Angeles only unbeaten, untied team in well," said Morrissey captain beat the New York Mets 7-4 in Interhall football by posting a Greg Golonka. Game 5 on Monday to move 12-0 victory over Holy Cross. Morrissey is now 1-2-1 and within one game of their first 
Pete Partin caught an 87-Keenan slips to 2-2. National League pennant since yard touchdown pass from Off-Campus 12, Flanner 0: 1981. quarterback John Neirs in the Dan Deibel scored on a 40-yard The teams now fly to Los An­first half to put Alumni on the run and Brendon Max threw a geles, where the Dodgers can board. In the second half, Neirs 50-yard touchdown pass to Rick wrap up the best-of-seven se­was once again in on the action Beneau to wrap up the win over ries Tuesday when former Met as he scored from the three­previously undefeated Flan­Tim Leary opposes David yard line. ner. Cone, the losing pitcher in 
Alumni improves to 3-0, "We did a good job of shut­Game 2. while Holy Cross drops to 1-2. ting down their offense," com­During the regular season, 
Dillon 3, Grace 0: Dillon kept mented Off-Campus captain the Mets won 10 of 11 games its lead in the Parseghian divi­Pete Walsh. Off-Campus evens from the Dodgers and won 56 sion as Cole Schneider booted its record at 2-2 and Flanner games at home, including their a 29-yard field goal in the fourth slides to 2-1-1. last 11 at Shea Stadium. But the quarter, despite less than help­Stanford 7, Zahm 0: Stanford Dodgers came into New York ful weather conditions. bounced back from last week's to win two of three and take a 
"We thought it would be a defeat to -overcome winless 3-2 lead. tough game with the condi­Zahm. The Dodgers won Game 4 in tions, but we expected the final Sean Gilboy put Stanford 12 innings on Gibson's homer outcome," commented Dillon ahead for the duration with a shortly before 1 a.m. EDT. a captain Paul Drey. six-yard touchdown run in the little less than 12 hours later, 
Dillon goes to 3-1 and Grace first half. I David Fischer the two teams were back on the falls to 1-3. "We improved greatly from field for the fifth game with the Morrissey 6, Keenan 0: Mor­rissey picked up its first win of see MEN, page 11 see RALLY, page 13 
Big performances key Irish upset
ND runners break 
By MOLLY MAHONEY was that even after letting season totals for kills and
away from others 
Sports Writer them off the hook at times, we blocks up to 187 and 87. didn't throw in the towel." Shea, Waller's partner inWith the men's cross country team coming off of a spec­Streaks are made to be bro­The Irish did not succumb to crime, registered 16 kills andtacular seventh-place finish in the NCAA last year, it is ken --as long as they are not the Wildcat attack in part be­helped break the Wildcatstime to look at the runners a little closer. This is especially your own. cause of a brilliant match from backs by adding five total true since they surprised a lot of people by finishing so The Notre Dame women's Shewman at outside hitter. blocks as well as six digs. 
strongly. 

volleyball team made this its Shewman had 17 kills for .317 Senior Zanette Bennett con­Just a year before, in 1986, the Irish had one of their motto last Saturday night as it hitting percentage and added tributed to the upset as well, upset tenth-ranked Kentucky 14 digs to complete a well­adding 11 kills at the net and a on the road in Memorial Arena. rounded performance offen­team-high 15 digs to help the
Scott 


The Irish defeated the sively and defensively. Irish. Wildcats in four games, 15-13, "Whitney really played Junior Kathy Cunningham
Brutocao 

12-15, 15-9 and 16-14, to end their great," said Lambert. "I was came off the bench to turn in a 
23-match home winning streak really pleased with her perfor­strong }Jlatch defensively for and keep a five-match one of mance. It had to be one of the the Irish tallying 12 digs to helptheir own alive. best matches she's played at set up the team's offense. 
Sports Writer 

worst years to date. Finishing 1-3 and failing to qualify to 
Kentucky had not lost a Notre Dame." Notre Dame needed all thethe NCAAs in the District IV meet was not even the worst match at home since October Fellow seniors Mary Kay defense it could get againstpart of it. 
of 1986, but Notre Dame, led by Waller and Maureen Shea also Kentucky as the Wildcats'These guys made one of the biggest turnarounds a team an impressive performance by turned in outstanding perfor­super seniors sent a barrage ofcan make from 1986 to 1987. What were the factors that senior Whitney Shewman, used mances at the net to keep the spikes slamming into the Irish explain such a ~ramatic comeback, especially considering superior ball control to deny Wildcats on their heels. frontcourt and backcourt.
they returned vtrtually the same team? Here are five par­
the Wildcats their 24th victory. Senior middle blocker Lisa
r 
tial explanations. 

''Itwas a very significant win Waller continued her strong Bokovoy tallied an incredibleOne: Leadership. 
to beat the tenth-ranked team play at middle blocker as she 32 kills for the match on a .439
. There were two seniors in the group last year that helped 
in the nation," said Irish head tallied a team-high 19 kills for hitting percentage, making life ptck up the team and turn it around after the dismal 1986 coach Art Lambert. "We a .325 hitting percentage and miserable for the Irish middle 
Morrissey quarterback David Fisher led Morlssey to a 6-0 win over Keenan Sunday afternoon in lnterhall football. Dave McMahon details the weekend action at left. 
see RUN, page 13 

passed well and we had better added nine blocks. The perfor­ball control. But I think the key mance brings her team-high see UPSET, page 14 




