

Clouds crowd
/ACCENT: Cheap Trick is back! 
Wednesday with a 50 percent chance of rain or snow. High 35 to 40. Cloudy Wednesday night with a 50 percent chance 
I VIEWPOINT: Grades not set in stone
1 
L .. 

VOL. XXI, NO. 102  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 1988  
~  •.  ..  .  
,.. , I  • •  "··  '  ..  ..  · 1  I'~  the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary'sJ  


Atlanta Mayor '88 commencement speaker 
By SUSAN MARHEFKA Dame minority policies, Mal­eluding the 1956 Montgomery, demonstrators in the South. candidates for honorary Staff Reporter loy said. Alabama bus boycott and a He became executive vice degrees as well as the com­Conklin cited Young's "ex­voter education and registra­president following King's as­mencement speaker. The trus­Atlanta Mayor Andrew cellent record in political tion project in New York City sassination in 1968. tees then meet and approve the Young will be the Notre Dame rights" and his "successful po­
selections, based on various commencement speaker on litical career" as among his After resigning from the con­criteria including who the pre­May 15, said Richard Conklin, varied accomplishments. · ference in 1970, Young served vious speakers have been and director of public relations and Young was nominated by as chairman of the Atlanta who represents the Univer­
information for the University. President Carter to be the Community Relations Com­sity's policies. He will be the second black American ambassador to the mission for two years. He also Reactions to the announce­commencement speaker at United Nations, a post which served in the U.S. House of ment have been very good, ac­
Notre Dame after Vernon Jor­he held from 1977-79. Representatives. cording to Fitzgibbon.dan addressed the class of 1976, The commencement speaker "There has been a great
according to University ar­He was elected mayor of At­is chosen each year after the response from the students ... chives. lanta in 1982 and again in 1986. senior class makes their sug­because he is a public figure
The announcement was Young was born in New Or­gestions, said Amy Treder, and he is known as a man of made at "a propitious leans and graduated from senior class treasurer. Those high values and someone to be time...when new minority en­Howard University in 1951. He nominations are then submit­respected," said Fitzgibbon.rollment policies are being continued his studies at the ted to Father Malloy. "He takes words and turns enacted," said Conklin. Hartford Theological Semi­The development office and them into action. He is a role nary and was ordained a min­Mayor Andrew Young Father Hesburgh's office also model, which is what we were 
l<,ather Edward Malloy ister in the United Church of give their input, added Senior looking for.'' agrees. "He is a major spokes­Christ, serving as pastor in Al­organizing nonviolent protest Class President Diane Fitzgib­"I'm very pleased with the man for the black community" abama and Georgia churches. with Martin Luther King, Jr. bon. selection. He is a man of action and his selection is a step Active in the civil rights Young joined the Southern According to Father Malloy, . . . he has challenged a lot of toward efforts to respond to the movement, he was involved Christian Leadership Confer­University groups, faculty, stu­establishments and the results recently-announced Notre with numerous projects, in-ence in 1961, aiding King and dents and trustees nominate are there," Fitzgibbon added. 
Campus violence studied by Senate 
the problem after he saw Mr.
By ERIC M. BERGAMO 
Senior Staff Reporter and Mrs. Howard Clery on "HPur Magazine" discussing 
A resolution calling for the the murder of their daughter establishment of a legislative Jeanne in April 1986 while she study committee to review the was a freshman at Lehigh Uni­problem of campus violence at versity in Pennsylvania. Indiana universities was The girl was awakened 
passed by the Indiana Senate during the night by a male stu­last week, according to State dent who was stealing valu­Senator Joseph Corcoran (R­ables from her room, Corcoran Seymour), sponsor of the explained. The student then resolution. raped and killed the girl. The resolution now goes to The student was convicted of 
the legislative council, com­murder and is appealing a prised of members from both death sentence in the case, Cor­houses of the Indiana General coran said. Assembly, who will decide if Lehigh officials refused to 
the committee should be estab­tell the Clerys the cause of their lished, he said. daughter's death for two days, 
The committee, if approved, he said, adding that Lehigh will collect statistics on violent released the cause only after crime at Indiana colleges and Howard Cleary had received examine the role of campus se­assistance from the Pennsylva­curity forces, Corcoran noted. nia State Police. 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez 

The committee will also see Corcoran wrote to the Clerys if colleges are willing to release and was asked to appear on the crime statistics to prospective "Sally Jessy Raphael" show 
freshmen, he said. which aired Jan. 26. Nationwide statistics on The day the program was campus violence are "pretty taped a story about the Clerys terrifying," Corcoran said. and their daughter's murder "The average girl attending appeared in USA Today, Cor­college, 25 percent of them coran said.
Associated Press Vermont in 1984, was running mary took place on Town stand a chance of being raped Since his appearance on thedead last. Meeting Day when Vermont's sometime during the four-year program, Corcoran hasMONTPELIER, Vt. -George Dole was flush with endorse­328,466 voters decided town period of college attendance. received "a tremendousBush, bidding to extend his win­ments in his effort to challenge budgets, road repairs and a That's worse chances than amount of mail from aroundning streak in New England, the vice president in his host of other local issues. 
would happen in the average the country from people wholed Bob Dole Tuesday night in Yankee backyard. Pat · With 43 percent of Vermont's neighborhood," Corcoran said. are very much interested in thethe Vermont Republican Robertson and Rep. Jack Kemp precincts reporting, Bush had 
presidential primc.~ry. Michael put up little effort and lagged 6,042 votes for 49 percent, com­"Colleges in this country cer­subject." 
tainly should be at least as safe Corcoran said he hopes to
Dukakis defeated four other far behind the GOP front­pared to Dole at 4,998 and 41 as the neighborhoods from start work as "close to July 1Democrats in the low-key, low­runners. 
percent. Robertson, whose sup­

which young people come from as possible" if the committeestakes tuneup for Super Tues­The elections were "beauty­porters said they were focusing 
day. and university officials should is approved.
contest" primaries. Vermont's on the April caucuses, had 5 In the state with the fewest national convention delegates percent and Kemp had just 3.4 do everything humanly pos­Corcoran would not spec­
blacks in the nation, Jesse Jack­sible...to provide for safe, se­ulate what kind of legislation
won't be apportioned until next percent. son ran a strong second to the month in party caucuses, and Bush had established his cure circumstances for stu­would be recommended by the Massachusetts governor, as he dents while they are attending committee.
the candidates have practi­standing in New England with did last weekend in Maine. cally ignored the state to con­college," he added. 
see PRIMARY, page 4 see SENATE, page 5
Gary Hart, the big winner in centrate on the South. The pri-Corcoran became aware of 
Tina Donahue and Janet McNeil, both Saint Mary's students, exchange pleasantries outside the dining hall. The spring like weather they enjoyed Tuesday is quuickly fading and rain and snow are expected today. 
Dukakis, Bush lead in Vermont 
--------~---­
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, March 2, 1988 


lin Brief 

John Kozak, professor of chemistry, has_ been naJ?ed head of the department of chemistry by Francis ~~stelhno, dean of the College of Science. Kozak, who JOmed the faculty at the University in 1968, replaces Thomas Fehlner, who will return to teaching and research. -The Observer 

cQf Interest 
The Juggler, an art_and lite~ary magazine, will accept submissions for the sprmg 1988 Issue only t~roug~ the ~nd of this week. Bring submissions to the English office, third floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
Irish Pub Night at Theodore's featuring Irish music by members of "Paddy's Racket" will be tonight. The members of the group are David Jones, Na~ional Ha~mer· Dulcimer Champion; Dan Gellert, player m the national folk festival; Kim Hoffman and Molly Moon. -The Obser­ver 
I 
I ~ Visiting fabric artist, Lenare Davis, will present a slide lecture on "Human and Humanism" Thursday at 7:30p.m. in Room 200 Riley Hal~ of A~t and Design. J?avis 
I 
is well known for her three dimensiOnal stuffed figure farms, painted slide narratives and her quilted wall farms. A reception will follow. -The Observer 
Adlai Stevenson will lecture on "Democracy and Civic Virtue: From the Greek Ideal to the Modern Amer­ican Reality" at noon Thursday in Room 220 in the Law School Courtroom. -The Observer 
The Women's Care Center!PregnancyHelpCenter is holding a training session for volunteers during the weekend of March 4. Volunteers will be trained to provide pregnancy testing, crisis counseling, and com_munity referrals. The session will be on campus in the Knights of Columbus building. Contact the Women's Care Center Monday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or Friday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 234-0363 for more information. 
-The Observer 

The Bridge Club will meet tonight from 11 to midnight in the basement of Alumni Hall. Beginners are welcome. 
-The Observer 

Freshman Orientation Executive Committee applications can be picked up in the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Applications are due on Monday, March 7 by 4 p.m. -The Observer 
Circle K a service and leadership organization, will have a 6:15 'p.m. general meeting in the Center for Social Concerns. A speaker on career choices is expected.-The 
Observer 

Great Hunger Clean-Up recruitment meeting will be tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. All those interested in participating in the clean-up, to take place April 16th, should attend. Sign-ups will take place in both dining halls during dinner March 7, 8, and 9. If interested and you cannot attend the meeting, call Sean Evers at 232-9112. -The Observer 
An Indian Lunch will be served at the Center for Social Concerns Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. The luncheon will benefit the Dismas House. -The Observer 

Design Editor.... . .... Joe Zadrozny Sports Copy Editors ............. Pete Skiko Design Assistant Annette Rowland Sports Wednesday Editor . Brian O'Gara Typesetters.. . ...... Becky Gunderman Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Julie Collinge News Editor.... Cathy Stacy ND Day Editor ................ Carrie McCall Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Liz Panzica Photographer .............. Susie Hernandez 
n 1e 0'-ner (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish<:d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile 0"-"er is published by the students of the Urtiversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile 0'-"er is a member of Tile Aaodaled Pres. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Could College of Sports fix U.S. jock shortage? 
The evidence seems clear: the United States has a definite jock deficit, and we've got to do 

Chris
something about it. If you've watched the Olympics over the past 
Julka
several weeks, you may have wondered if ABC 
was doing a travel-guide special on the lights Assistant News Editor and wonders of Calgary. If the Winter 91ympics 
proved anything, it was that it is definitely an 
international competition. 

Jim McKay got "up close and personal" with so many medalists from the Eastern Bloc that he might as well have been a correspondent for Tass. And I hate to say it, but about the only Americans you saw were usually crying, lying on the ice or drinking Bud in the stands. 
Apparently, this is the worst we've done since 1936. We've never really dominated the Winter Olympics, of course. Still, the experts are saying that we probably aren't going to look that spectacular this summer either. America is starting to look like a nation which rejoices in its wimpiness. 
That was my impression anyway from the coverage of the event. Soon ABC, probably run­ning out of ideas for subjects of athlete prof~es who didn't require interpreters, started domg segments on why Americans were not winning so many medals. · 
The Giffords pointed out that the U.S., be­cause it is not socialist, spends only $140 million are just as respected now, if not more so, than 
on its Olympic program. Interestingly enough, 
the traditional arts and letters, why not es­of this, only $7.5 million went to the athletes. I tablish a new College of Sports and Athletics? 
wonder where the other $132.5 million went. 
By this I mean abolish all NCAA academic Probably to former business and accounting 
requirements altogether. Universities sup­majors. 
posedly exist for the purpose of preparingThen Ted Koppel devoted an entire Nightline careers. So then why waste effort on peopleepisode to this question, and it became clear who excel in areas outside of academics? If 
we had a national crisis on our hands. 

they don't make the grade, teachers often fudge Now all of the experts are being called in to it anyway, which merely corrupts the system. 
rectify this suddenly discovered Medal Gap. 
Today physical prowess can be just as much George "Mr. Baseball" Steinbrenner is chair­an asset as academic aptitude. People point out 
are
ing an overview committee, and there the slim odds an average athlete has of making
proposals for spending more money, building it to the pros. Yet they fail to mention the odds, more facilities, and spending more money. 
say, an art or even an English major has of 
Instead of increasing the nation's debt even getting employed. . further, in fact, I propose a much simpler so­The traditional argument that an athlete IS lution. destined for unemployment without knowledge No, not genetic engineering. It's just inter­of calculus or Camus if he can't make the big
esting to me that our more successful compet­leagues is garbage. I just recently read, for itors not only spend more, they also have no example, that America is suffering a shortagequalms about establishing schools exclusively of physical education teachers. 
devoted to the training of future athletes. In any case, if the athlete is truly worried, So I was wondering, why not do the same he could double major--say, football and En-here? glish. <. · 
American universities, for example, did not In this way, we could enable young people to always have colleges of science or engin_eering. devote full time to sports in which they excel. And it was only several decades ago, m fact, We could have hockey majors, skating majors, that Notre Dame created a college of business and luge majors. administration. And best of all, Julius Erving would then not 

So if we could add all of these colleges, which be the only athlete we could call doctor. 
---·-NI1-AVE._APTS~---, 



l~arly Bird Special 
Now·. renting for Fall Bedrooms completely furnished Sign up before break and Call receive a lOo/o discount 234-6647 by Pinkerton Security Agency 
~·~~·-·..-.·-·~·~-··---··---·-·.._...._..__oor:a. ...........-•• _._,_,..., 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

AMADEUS 
by Peter Shaffer 

directed by Frederic Syburg 
Washington Hall 

Wed., March 2, Thurs., March 3, Fri., March 4, Sat., March 5-8:10 P.M. Sun., March 6-3:10 P.M. 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 Tickets arP-available at 
Students & Senior C1tlzens $4 Wash•ngton Hall T1cket Off1ce 
on W~d .. Thurs., Sun. only. Weekdays Noon to 6 PM. 
MasterCard/Visa orders 239-5957 

Wednesday, March 2, 1988 
By DIANE HAMMEL 
News Staff 
University programs on gay studies are "alive and thriv­ing," said Professor Claude Summers in his lecture Tues­day evening about the difficulties of writing articles about gays for literary publica­tions. 
"Gay studies has entered the mainstream of literary schol­arship," said Summers, a pro­fessor of English at the Univer­sity of Michigan, Dearborn and the author of the Gay Studies Newsletter and Journal of Homosexuality. 
The University of New York is among the several univer­sities that have accepted gay studies programs. 
"Gay studies is an intellec­tual achievement accom­plished with little institutional support and widespread skep­ticism. It's growth has coin­cided with the growth of gay 
libration and feminism," said 
Summers. 
''Although realistic obstacles 
still remain, "concluded Sum­
mers, "attempts to silence gay 
studies is unlikely to succeed." 
''Unfortunately, homop­hobia, or gay paranoia, still exists," said Summers. 
"Due to homophobia, many publications still discriminate against essays on gays. Arti­cles that are accepted suffer much criticism," said Sum­mers. 
"The gay literature that is written and read is taught in a hostile environment. Many people falsely assume that those who are sympathetic to gays in writing are gay them­selves," Summers said. 
"The prejudices in academic publishing must be put to an end. Gay scholars need to speak up for fair treatment and suggest unbiased reviewers to insure fairness and accuracy." he said. 
.... 

The Observer I Susy Hernandez
Dash to class 

Students rush through Madeleva Hall on their way to their 2:45 p.m. classes. lnspite of the rush many students still find time to talk with friends. 

ND junior organizes fund raiser for Olympic skater 
By KATIE KEARNEY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
When Notre Dame student Tricia Jansen saw Olympic speedskater Dan Jansen fall in his bid for a gold medal, just hours after his sister died from leukemia, the off-campus junior, no relation to the Olym­pian, felt she had to do some­thing. 
After watching Jansen fall a second time in the 1,000 meter race, she called the local ABC autuaLt! auu got a phone num­ber in Calgary where she reached Dan Jansen's brother. 
"He told me about the 'Jane 
M. Beres Fund' for leukemia research," she said. The fund honors Jane Beres, Dan Jan­sen's sister who died of leukemia Feb. 14, the day her brother competed in the 500 meter race. 
"I thought it would be a nice idea to get the Notre Dame community involved in raising money for the fund," said Tricia Jansen. 

"I want to organize some type of fund raiser here (at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's) and then present the Jansen family with the proceeds for thP funrl " 
"I am not related to Dan, but I am from the same state (Wisconsin)," she said. "I saw him on the Olympics and wanted to do something to help." 

fJfu: 'llniu£7-1-it!J of c:::/Votrz_t: !Dam£ and th£ 

"I am not sure yet how the money will be raised," she said. "Maybe dorms could donate one of their Sunday col­lections to the fund." 
''A friend of mine in a campus band said he would donate his time, so a concert is another alternative." 
Tricia Jansen said she is also contacting local organizations such as the Knights of Colum­bus to see if they would be in­tersted in participating in the fund raiser. 
"I would like to raise at least 1,000 dollars for the fund," Jan­sen said. "But even if we raised only a few hundred dollars, that would still be great." 
Jansen said she hoped to raise money like Saint Mary's professor Nicholas Meyer­hofer, who started a fund to help the family of a boy who died of AIDS. 
Beres is survived by her hus­band, three daughters, and a family of eight brothers and sisters. 

[/nuit£ th£ c:::/Votrz_t: !Dam£ ~tudt:nt !Body 
to th£ !Dt:cfiC!.ation of 

"The Knute Rockne Commemorative Stamp" 
with (Prz_inC!.ipaf ~pt:ak£7­

PRESIDENT RoNALD REAGAN 
dl!l.a'l-ch 9, 1988 a1 the :Joyce cf!-thLdic & Conuocalion Cente'L cf!-'Lena at 
12:30 p.m. 

Tickets will be free, but required 
Information regarding time and place for ticket distribution will be made available at a later date 
L_______________________________________________________________________________________________ _ 

-~ ~ ----------~-~---~----~--~~­

Security Beat 
1:55 p.m.-A University employee reported 
FEBRUARY 28 

that his car windshield was cracked while it 
6:26 p.m. · Notre Dame Security issued a was parked in the B I Lot at about I :30 p.m.
citation to a South Bend resident for Damage is estimated at $125. 

disregarding a stop sign at the intersection of 

5:00p.m.~ A University employee reported Juniper Road and Eddy Street. 
that four vending machines in Dillon Hall 8:40 p.m. ~ A Notre Dame student found a were vandalised sometime between Feb. 26 
bracelet on Lake Road and turned it into the 

and Feb. 29. damage estimates are not known. Security Office. 
I0:15 p.m.~ While on patrol. a Notre Dame 
9:30 p.m. · Notre Dame Security issued a Security Officer reported that a car was struck 

citation to an Indiana resident for traveling 45 while parked in the Dl Lot. Damage is mph in a posted 25 mph zone. 

estimated at $1000. 
9:50 p.m. -Notre Dame Security issued a citation to a South Bend resident for driving MARCH I while having his driving privileges suspended. 

1:30 p.m. -A Sorin Hall resident reported that his car was stolen while parked in the 
FEBRUARY 29 

D I Lot sometime between 2:00 a.m. on Feb. 
12:30 p.m. · A Lyons Hall resident reported 29 and II :00 a.m. on March I. Investigation

that someone struck her car while it was revealed that the vehicle wa' not stolen. The 

parked between Stepan Chemistry and 

car had been taken by someone with an O'Shaughnessy Hall sometime between II :45 
identicial car. the key is the same for both 
a.m. and 12:25 p.m. Damage estimates are vehicles. 

unknown. 


To the NOTRE DAME SWIM TEAM: Shave those bodies and win the Midwest Championships! 
Swim Meet: Thurs-Sat, Rolfs Aquatic Center, 12pm prelims, 7pm finals 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Computer Graphic Artist 
deadline: March 4th, 5:00 p.m. 
Applications available at The Observer. 


Primary 
continued from page 1 
a dramatic victory in New Hampshire over Dole and a vic­tory over Robertson in Maine. 
Among the Democrats, Dukakis had 7,702 votes for 54 percent and Jackson had 4,323 votes for 30 percent. Rep. Rich­ard Gephardt, who visited the state several times, had 7 per­cent of the vote and Sen. Paul Simon, who made no real ef­fort, had 5 percent. Hart had 
3.6 percent and Sen. Albert Gore Jr. was not on the ballot. 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents 
The Fourth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality 
"Women and Teaching: Themes for a Spirituality of Pedagogy" 
Maria Harris Nationally ~regarded writer. lecturer and authority on education 
Thursday, March 3, 1988 7:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 
Admission free 
For further information. contact Center for Spirituality 219/284-4636 
-------EB------­
saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME I NOlANA 

The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Page Editor 
Application deadline: Friday, March 4 
For further information contact Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin at The Observer (239-5303) 
SENIOR FORMAL "FOREVER YOUNG" 
April 15, 16, 17 
Hyatt Regency Chicago 
BID SALES 
TODAY 
WHERE: 
March l & 2: Ncv' Orleans Room, Lafortune March 3: LeMans Lobby, SMC 
WI-IEN: 
6-9 p.m. 

BID PRICE: $70 
I 
REMEMBER TO: INCLUDES: 
./ Buy Bid 

:t Dinner for Two 
* Crwktail Jlartv 
./ M:<l«· llinn<T

.1: lwn Ill'•' drll:h. 11• kt·T<.; 
1\c~tT\'O!Iicnts

* 
<:harupaJ.!IIl'

* 
EnJ.:,ravl·d Sl'nlor Fnnnal Cltar11pagnc (~lass._·~ 


,/ Make I<ooJJl HPsCr\'atinns

* Formal T>mwf'
* * 
Contirwnt;d :\las~ !lnnwh 

Nl·l·ll INIIf' I ·\I I '· I~.: I· . \ I :'.'I.\ I :1 :II>. I ' I) I I l • • ' I ."•.! . ' .. 1'1 1,1·. \ o\J ''·" 1 , d!o 1 •11 •,, \I ."'I','.'' 
ADWOI1KS 
-------~-----------­
-~~-----~-------------------~------------------------­
~W~e~d~n~es~d~a~y~,M~a~rc~h~2~·~1~9~88:____________________________________T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r______________________________________________~Page ~ 
Chicken pox reported common on campus 
By GINA CAMARENA 
News Staff 
The varicella virus--more commonly known as chicken pox--is not uncommon among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. There is no cause for alarm, however, because the number of cases has been in accord with the norm, said Dr. James Moriarity of University 
Health Service. 
Approximately ten cases of both chicken pox and the mumps have been reported at the University this year and only four at Saint Mary's. Moriarity said there is definitely not a campus epidemic of the virus. 
Why, then, are college-age students contracting this "childhood disease"? Moriarity attributed possible outbreaks to the closeness of living and eating quarters at Notre Dame. Although no spe­cial prevention will avoid con­tacting chicken pox, Moriarity suggested a few measures that can lessen the chance of com­ing in contact with the virus. 
Most importantly, students should avoid drinking from an­other person's cup--sound ad­vice according to Moriarity, but often not heeded. Another suggestion he made is for stu­dents "to do their best to keep 
are better with 
Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 

as clean as possible"-­
especially the hands when com­
ing in contact with food. 
Nothing will provide com­
plete immunity from the dis­
ease except having previously 
had the virus. A noticeable 
fever, sore throat and runny 
nose usually begin two or three 
days before the characteristic 
rash appears. Depending on its 
severity, the virus can last 
from one week to ten days and 
result in the patient being kept 
in isolation. 
Moriarity said the Japanese claim to have a vaccine for the virus although it remains in the experimental stages. 
The only medication given to patients is aspirin for head­aches and calamine lotion to relieve the itching from the rash. Only the body itself, through its immune system, can overcome the disease. 
Although chicken pox itself is not a serious illness, it can stimulate other diseases such as pneumonia or the Reyes Syndrom, which is a liver dis­order. The varicella virus does not directly cause the Reyes Syndrom, but this disease has been known to occur two to six weeks after the chicken pox outbreak. Chances of contract­ing pneumonia or the Reyes Syndrome, however, are ex­tremely rare . 

start service at 1 a.m. and go

287·8677 
held again this year on April 9 
to 3:30 a.m. because people 

after its success last year, said
l ~ @@ 
committee chairman Jay Far-
s J J t r. ~~ 1) _, ~ -.\ 
reher. Each dorm will be al-
Jt ~-rr..ll~ /. 't. l j .i lowed two entries, and prizes
--' 1-(i / I-\ ~ " ~ (~ ~~ :/~h~efi~:1a~~~~. to the winner 
By JIM LANG aren't riding it between mid­News Staff night and 1 a.m.," he said. Salmon also said they would 
The Hall President's Council attempt to publicize the bus by discussed restructuring the placing posters in the bars and Buzz Bus schedule and imple­the dorms before the spring menting minor route alterna­season. tions to increase ridership at Tuesday night's meeting. In other council business, 
Co-Chairman Tim Salmon Amy Rochon announced that said that one major problem the system for choosing dorm was the bus's inability to keep representatives for freshman up with its schedule, especially orientation would be different in the winter months. He hopes this year. Instead of the new that a new schedule will hall presidents choosing the "increase ridership by having dorm representative at the out­a bus that's on time." set of the year, the outgoing 
hall presidents will choose the 
According to Salmon, an­dorm representative near the other problem is the bus's end of their term. starting time. "We want to 
The Fisher Regatta will be 
'-<AJ)(;L WQ Jt .. lJee .. Ett £ar~
c 
J "' 

@ "IRISH PUB NITE" ~ at 
~ 

Theodore's 
{@ 
Wednesday, 8:00 p.m. 
F0­
0 
'<ll.l featuring Irish Music by ~ "PADDY'S RACKET" \:.)Y Members: DAVID JONES--Nat'l Hammer Dulcimer Champion, DAN GELLERT-plays
)~) 

in Nat'l Folk Festival, KIM HOFFMAN, & 
MOLLYMOON

r!7?­
Instruments used include hammer dul­'-<AI cimers, keyboard, fiddler, guitars, man­0 dolin, bouzouki, Irish drums & pin whistles 
~ "Irish music in overdrive"
£@ National Folk Music Champsi 

AP Photo
Fingers do the talking 

An Israeli soldier and a Palestinian resident of the occupied West Bank have a discussion after the sol­dier checked the man's identification Monday. 
HPC to improve Buzz Bus 
1"0 ~ ~~ II ' CL~')E5 {'?:} 
•,l'·': 

~ <-tJJ ~j 1\ il ' or;.: c_-y~: 


,.. The regatta will attempt to
raise money for the Andre ~ House, a Center for Social Con­
, Senate 
~ 
~
Q. ~ 
@ 
0
W 
~ 
'~ ~ 
~ 
@ 
~ 

"That is something that would have to be developed through the consensus of the committee," he said. The Indiana State Police are 
cerns sponsored shelter for the homeless, Farreher said. 
The Great Hunger Cleanup will be held on April 16 from 11 and 2 p.m., off-campus repre­sentative Sean Evers told the council. There will be a meeting for anyone who is in­terested Wednesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the esc. 

Evers explained that the vol­unteers would do some clean­ing for elderly people who are unable to do it themsleves. He said, "Each volunteer will hopefully raise about $25 in scholarship." 
Badin Hall President Margo 
-Kirchner announced that Badin and Dillon Halls are sponsoring an academic talk on the 1988 presidential race. The talk will be held on Thursday in Dillon Hall and will discuss the candidates and the issues. 
The Keenan Rebuttal will open at 7: 30 Saturday night, ac­cording to Chris Lee, Cavanaugh Hall president. There will be a dance after the rebuttal held in Cavanaugh and open to the entire student body. 
"very supportive" of the com­mittee, he added. 
Pennsylvania is currently considering legislation that would require colleges to release crime statistics to in­coming students, though the law would not be compulsory, Corcoran said. 
r--L-EA_R_N-CP_R_,-P-LE_A_S_E--.. 
Toke o l>fesov1ng Red Cross CPR course
+American Red Cross 
~ 
V 

The Observer 
The independent student newspaper seNing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Supplies Clerk/Business Assistant {paid position) 
A one page application should be turned in by Friday, March 4. 
For further information contact John Oxrider at The Observer (239-5303) 

The Observer Wednesday, March 2, 1988
page 6 

Reagan arrives in Brussels for summit with allies 
Associated Press arrived from London, and met 
briefly with Belgian officials. 
In a gesture of reassurance 
BRUSSELS, Belgium-Pres-givenin a departure statement ident Reagan, urging Western Tuesday morning at the White solidarity in arms talks with House, Reagan pledged that the Soviets, arrived Tuesday American troops will remain in for the first NATO summit in Europe "so long as Europeans six years. want them to stay." 
He also promised to protect 
After Air Force One touched NATO's interests in any arms down on the tarmac at Brussels deals with the Soviet Union. Zavantem Airport in windy "We will never sacrifice the in­conditions, Reagan was terests of this partnership in reunited with Secretary of any agreement with the Soviet State George Shultz, who had Union," he said. 
After stepping down the ramp from !->is Boeing 707 jet­liner, Reagan smiled and chatted amiably as he was greeted by Shultz, who had just arrived from London talks with Jordan's King Hussein. Also on hand were Belgium's prime minister, Wilfried Martens, and Foreign Minister Leo Tin­demans. 
Following a five-minute courtesy get•together with Tin­demans in an airport salon, Reagan was ferried by motor­cade for an overnight stay at In his departure statement, Chateau Stuyvenberg, a 1840 Reagan hailed the newly brick and stone palace one used signed treaty to abolish U.S. as the favored residence of the and Soviet intermediate-range Belgian royal family. nuclear missiles ONF), but 

The two-day meeting at said, "the pu>pose of this sum­NATO headquarters in Brus­mit is not self­sels, beginning Wednesday, congratulations." brings together the heads of state or government of the 16-"Our first priority is to main­member North Atlantic Treaty tain a strong and healthy part­Organization. The conference nership between North sets the stage for Reagan's ex­America and Europe, for this pected summit in Moscow with is the foundation on which the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­cause of freedom so crucially hev in late May or early June. depends," he said. 
Violence in Panama as strike continues 
Associated Press and the Panama Defense Forces, the 17,000-member mil­
PANAMA CITY, Panama -itary and police organization Plainclothes officers fired doz­commanded by Noriega, the ens of shots into the air Tues­real power behind the civilian day to disperse about 15 people government. who banged pots and pans in At least four men were support of a strike against the punched, kicked and beaten military rule of Gen. Manuel with rubber truncheons during Antonio Noriega. the 40-minute melee as they 
The young security men, were arrested and shoved into dressed in jeans and T-shirts, police vehicles. outnumbered the protesters. The confrontation occurred as Two women were amongthe strike appeared to be gat­those arrested on Via Argen­hering support in its second tina, an upper-middle-classday. neighborhood. They were not 
beaten, but one was slapped on 
Eric Arturo Delvalle, ousted the buttocks as she was hustled as president last week by the into a car. general, remained in hiding Demonstrators from the Tuesday. He predicted serious Popular Action Party were economic trouble. banging pots and pans, and dis­
Delvalle's successor, Manuel tributing leaflets, when secur­Solis Palma, accused the ity agents jumped from United States of "lies and 4-wheel-drive Toyotas with defamation" about Noriega polarized windows. 



BETA ALPHA PSI 
AND 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
&.0; 
PRESENT 

Consulting in Business 
Wednesday, March 2 4:30PM Senior Bar Reception to Follow 
Casual Dress 

All Accounting Majors and All Finance Majors With 12 or More 
Hours of Accountin Are Welcome to Attend. 


Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 2, 1988 page 7 
Route needed to appeal grades 
Should a professor have absolute, un­checked power over your grade? Do you know that the grade an instructor gives is final? Suppose that a professor makes sexual advances on a student. Assuming that the student refuses--let's say the professor fails the student and says it is due to the grades the student received. Even if these grades are bogus or doctored, the student has no recourse, because only the professor can ever give or change a grade. 
Bob Brutran 
guest column 

A more common example may be that you have a personality conflict with a teacher, and it ends up being represented in your grade. Even if you have a legitimate beef, and hard evidence to prove it, you will not get 
P. 0. Box Q 
Defense spending threatens peace 

Editor's Note: The following is the third in a series that will conclude with Pres­ident Reagan's visit to campus. Dear Editor: 
I am frightened by the arms race, by the fact that the countries of the world spend $1.7 million a minute on the mil­itary. The arms race seems to have a morbid dynamic of its own, which leaves us as individuals paralyzed and numb, afraid to comtemplate the impossible. It is true that the recent INF Treaty was a step forward, for which both Reagan and Gorbachev must be congratulated, but we must go further and eliminate the 60,000 nuclear warheads which remain. 
Reagan is not the first president to perpetuate this death race, nor does he represent the only actor in this tragedy­-the Soviet Union is equally responsible­-but this administration's policies have done little to halt the slide toward an­nihilation. Since 1981 we have spent $2 trillion on defense. That works out to $743 million per day, $31 million per hour, $516,000 per minute, and almost $9,000 per second. On the SDI project alone the administration has spent $13 billion. How can this obsession with ag­gression be justified? Both sides would claim that the arms race has acted as 
a system of deterrence. That "peace" 
does not feel secure; we are perilously 
close to destruction. The world has been 
witness to over 160 wars since 1945. The 
immorality of threat has been high­
lighted by the U.S. Catholic Bishops' 
Pastoral Letter on the Challenge of 
Peace, which concluded that the threat 
to use nuclear weapons is in itself im­
moral. 
It isn't easy to think of war. To face reality and act to prevent war is hr.rder. We can live a pretense of ignoring the nuclear threat, and leave the sordid details to the men of the Kremlin and White House, or we can attempt to in­dividually act out the words of the Bis­hops' Pastoral: "Peacemaking is not an optional commitment, it is a require­ment of our faith. We are called to be peacemakers, not by some movement of the moment, but by our Lord Jesus." 
Sarah Gillam Pax Christi-Notre Dame February 26, 1988 
Racial incident leaves doubts 
Dear Editor: 
I have the unfortunate task of report­ing a regrettable incident which oc­curred on Feb. 1, 1988, at the Queen of All Saints Junior High School gymnasium--located in Michigan City. 

The girls' basketball team I coach, Barker Junior High's, was defeating Queen's team, when their coach yelled at me, "When are you going to take the press off, boy?" I informed him that I considered "boy" to be a racial slur, but that did not stop him. He emphati­cally called me a boy several times during the course of the game. 
The incident described above oc­curred in the presence of my team (and Queen's team), and that was in­tolerable. That was my first game as a coach, and I had planned beforehand to "press" throughout the first quarter so that I could obtain a sizeable lead and let my second-and third-string teams receive playing time. Indeed, my first--string played only seven minutes the entire game. The coach argued that his comments came because I was trying to "run up" the score. If my starters had played the entire game, they would have scored more than a hundred points. During the game I in­formed the coach that I was not trying to embarrass his girls, but he became angry and started shouting at me, in full view of the teams and the fans. In the second half I sat on the bench hoping that my players would not score. Even if the coach believed that I was trying to embarrass his girls he had no right to repeatedly call me a boy. 
I am a black man and I am sensitive to racial slurs. Unfortunately, the prin­cipal at Queen of All Saints does not share my sensitivity. Although he has received letters of complaint from myself and the Barker administration, he rationalizes the coach's behavior as understandable given the lopsided score. That is sad. Queen's coach is a visible representative of Queen's school, parish and the local Roman Catholic community. His behavior was appalling, and the unwillingness of Queen's school to take any action against him is equally appalling. Queen's principal has asked me to "drop" this matter, but I cannot in good conscience agree. I have discussed this incident with Catholic officials through­out the Michigan City area, and, almost to a person, they have encouraged me to forget the incident. Maybe if they were in my shoes they could understand why I must not be silent. Recently, there has been a rash of similar inci­dents across the United States. This does not surprise me. I am, however, surprised that the local Catholic church has given its tacit approval to the coa­ch's actions. I am a professor of sociol­ogy at Saint Mary's College, and my colleagues have tried to assure me that this situation is an anamoly and is not endemic. I am not sure. 
Doonesbury 
ITHe O~IPiRfiiiiRW tT ON. I 

IT'5 TIM£ TO 5HAKE UP THC. 1 ~ATIJS QUO IN TH/5 caJNTRYt
"'
. ~. 
anywhere, short of divine intervention, like if the guy gets run over by a beer truck before the grade makes it to the Registrar's Office! 
If you work hard and receive your final semester grade, that should be the one that goes on your transcript, shouldn't it? Not necessarily. The pro­fessor can change your grade at his will, apparently any time until you leave Notre Dame. This means that if you had a personality conflict with the professor, and he forgot to stick-it-to­you last semester, he can go back and change your grade downward the next semester after the course is finished. All the teacher has to say is that he made a calculation error and the stu­dent (or the dean, or the president) has no recourse. 
A professor at Notre Dame has tre­mendous authority over his class. Aside from a few requirements by the indi­vidual departments, a professor has free reign to teach and stress the aspects of the subject that he feels are most important. This is generally good because it gives each class in the same subject a different flavor. Students can choose their instructors at registration. But how do you prevent a professor with tenure from becoming lazy and simple monotonously repeating ten-year-old notes semester after semester? There is a system of advancements, and pay raises, but how do you get rid of the dead wood? Is it impossible? 

Notre Dame should consider a policy to give some of the faculty's absolute power to a neutral authority in a formal appeal process. It is well known that absolute power can corrupt absolutely (like President Marcos, or General Noriega). The framers of the United States Constitution included a system . of checks and balances to eliminate this possibility. Other schools have such ap­peal sturctures, shouldn't we? 
There are several formats that could be used. One possibility would be to have an autonomous, paid staff mem­ber act as an intermediary, whose deci­sions are final. This person could be reached easily, by phone or in a con­venient office location. An inter­mediary could also help with problems between students and administration, for example the Registrar's Office, etc. Another solution could involve a panel that meets when called to review cases. This panel could consist of a faculty representative, a student and a repre­sentative from the administration, maybe a priest. Either form would be a last-chance, one-shot service. An ap­peal process would help Notre Dame as an institution striving for justice and Catholic ideals. 
Bob Brutran is a sophomore transfer 
Jl~ 
I tdANT 7D BE-KNOIAJV A5 7HE IN­51/R6ENT' PR£5/PtNT! COM& 1989, 
IAJt'/?E. GOING TO 513ND TH& POUT/CAL. !3STABU5HM£NT 
PACI<IN6! 
BI!T IAJ& CAN'T/A/AIT UNTIL. 19891 7711:3 FARM EJUREAU HAS OJT OFF MY PADDY's (]?[3.[)/T! al/3 HAVB TO S/31.-L-OUT 
TH/5 14/UI<. ! 
(JLcr 

Garry Trudeau 
OON7 /JJORRY, G£&, THANK5, 
50N. IU MR. OUT51/?&R! 
MAl<& A 
R3WCALI...'3. 
/"' 

Quote of the Day 
"Neither a lofty degree of intelligence nor imagina­tion nor both together go to the making of a g en ius. Love, love, love, that is the soul of genius." 
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Ed1tor-in·Chief .. Kev1n Becker Business Manager .. .. . .. .. .. .. . ... John Ox rider Managmg Ed1tor Mark Pankowski :ldv·crtising Design Manager.... . .... Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor Chns Bednarsk, Advertising Manager ...' ......... Steve Clark News Ed1tor J1m R1ley Production Manager.... . . .. Melissa Warnke Viewpomt Ed1tor Chns Murphy Projects Manager. .. ... Mark McLaughlin
The Observer IS the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the Umvers1ty of 
Sports Editor Denn1s Comgan Systems Man;;ger . . . . Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary s College It does not necessanly reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor Michael Naughton Controller. ......... . .... Tracy Schindele
the adm1ntstrat1on of etther tnstttUtlon The News IS reported as accurately and obJeCtively as 
Samt Mary·s Ed1tor Sandy C~o·1me1e Graphic Arts Manager... .. .... Laura Stanton
poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nton of the ma)onty of the Editorial Board Commentanes. leHers and I he lns1de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space 
Photo Editor Jim Cal·nll 
•s ava1lable 10 all members of the school communtty. and the free express1on of vary1ng op1ntons on campus. through leHers. 1s encouraged Founded November 3,1968 
Accent 

Wednesday, March 2, 1988 
Cheap Trick, now better than ever 
MATT MURPHY 
accent writer 
I 
know what your're thinking­"Could it be, could it really be, Cheap Trick back together and touring again?!"--You guessed it! 
The originators of such hits as "Surrender" and "Tonight Its You" will be performing this Thursday, March 3rd at 9 pm at the Indiana Club, South Bend. For the first time in eight years the original band, con­sisting of Tom Peterson, Rick Neilsen, Bun E. Carlos and Robin Zander are back togther with a brand new album and an international tour. 
Cheap Trick has been known as a rock group with good lyrics and a strong beat and has experienced much popularity especially after the release of an older album, "Cheap Trick... Live at Budokan." Lately though, they have slipped into semi­obscurity do to the departure of bass player Tom Peterson, and a lack of new work. 

This upcoming tour of theirs looks to change all that. The group has just released a new album "Lap of Luxury" a·nd its first single, "The Flame", will premier on MTV on March 10. Their tour, schedualed to begin after a limited number of 'war­mup' mid-western perfor­mances, includes playing Australia, New Zealand, and the U.S., and is in response to this release and reunion. 
The South Bend performance is the only one in the area, so why not come out and hear a good rock group before they get 'big' again. Tickets are 15 dollars and are still avaliable, for this one show, Thursday, by calling 312-559-1212 or by visiting Audio Specialists, All State Athletics, or Night Winds, in the South 
Kodak's camera angles 
Some 'interesting' WJ music ~ 
ANN SEIFERT 
accent writer 
E
ven though these two records are semi-old, they are still worthy of your time, because they are pretty good. The first and best comes from Band of Susans, an EP titled Blessing and Curse. This band is so named because three of the six members are named Susan. The music can be categorized as hardcore, but it is certainly accessible. 
The best song of the four on the record is "Hope Against Hope." It features a loud wall of guitars (four of 
.them here!) and good vocals 
and harmonies from three 
members, Susam Stenger, 
Susan Lyall, and Alva 
Rogers. The different talents 
of all six members of the 
band allow for lots of varia­
tion throughout each and 
every track. 

In England, Band of Susans is receiving a lot of critical acclaim. This EP shows great promise and originality and should not be overlooked. 
Along this same vein of originality and unique style is a record by a band called Cargo Cult. This group has a sound which is Spanish and Creole sounding. It is jazzy, with a heavy conga drum sound. If any of you have ever listened to Buckwheat Zydeco or New Orleans jazz stuff, then you can imagine this sound. It is certainly different! 
The best song is probably the first cut. It is titled "Vanishing Point"; "Speech Impediment" is another strong cut. The music of Cargo Cult on this album, Concrete Island, is a fusion of many different sounds. Hmmmm, interesting. 
Associated Press 
Eastman Kodak Co. is celebrating the 1OOth year of the snapshot with the introduc­tion of new cameras and film. 
In June 1888, at a time when photography was still primarily a complicated and cumber­some wet plate process, George Eastman introduced the first Kodak camera. It was a box-type camera, light and small in size, loaded with a roll of light-sensitive emulsion on stripping paper long enough for 100 exposures. The price of the loaded camera, including a shoulder strap, was $25. 
After exposure, the camera was sent to Rochester, N.Y., where the exposed strip was removed, developed and printed, and a new one was inserted for $10. 
That Kodak camera created an entirely new market: people who had no special knowledge of photography but who wanted to take pictures. Anybody could "press the but­ton" and Eastman's company "would do the rest." 
Kodak has come a long way since 1888. The new Kodak products being introduced at the Photo Marketing Associa­tion show in Chicago this month include cameras and films that still encourage the inexperienced photographer to 
just "press the button" and let Kodak do the rest. 
George Eastman would be proud of the new Kodak Fling 35, a throwaway camera that contains 24-exposure Kodacolor ISO 400 film. Last year Kodak introduced a Fling camera utilizing 11 0-size film. The step up to 35mm size should improve picture quality considerably. 
With the Fling 35, you just take the pictures and turn the camera over to the processor to get your prints. No, you don't get the camera back. The Fling 35 can't be re-loaded like George's original camera. You'll have to buy another. However, at a suggested price of $8.35 

(you'll find it cheaper at dis­count stores), it's an affordable alternative when you're on vacation and your camera breaks down, and it's a perfect camera for the beach, boating or skiing. 
Also being introduced at the Photo Marketing Association show is the Kodak Winner camera, a compact Olympic­themed edition of its popular 11 0-format camera. The new Winner, which showcases Kodak's participation in the 1988 Olympic Games, is de­signed to introduce young picture-takers to the delights of photography. 
"Many adults have fond recol­lections of receiving their first camera which, in many cases, was a Kodak," a Kodak spokes­man said."With the Winner camera, we are building on that tradition." 
The Winner, designed for children ages 5-12, uses ISO 200 or 400 film and accepts an 8-bulb or a 10-bulb nip-flash for indoor photography. It will be available in red or blue, in a package that contains a 24­exposure roll of Kodacolor film and a book of rebate coupons worth $5 on Kodak film am:! battery purchases. (The pack­age will also include a mail-in offer for a sports wallet-watch from Kodak, at a sugAested retail price of $11.95.) 
A step up from the Winner is Kodak's new 35mm 51 OOEF camera, an inexpensive manual camera featuring a built-in electronic flash and lens cover, a 35mm f4.5 fixed-focus lens and a suggested price tag of $59.95. It will be available in either red or black. 
At the top of the ladder of the new cameras is the Kodak 5900 Tele camera. It features two lenses: a 34mm wide angle fixed-focus lens and a 62mm three-zone autofocus telephoto lens. A flip of a switch on the camera flops a mirror inside from one lens to the other so that the user can compare images in the viewfinder before taking the picture. 
Some of the other features found on the 5900 Tele camera include: auto-advance of the film to the first frame after the film is loaded and the shutter button is depressed; automatic sensing of the film ISO speed with DX coded films; automatic flash when it's needed (which can be turned off with a defeat switch); auto-advance; rewind, and exposure. It's made in America and has a suggested list price of $299.99. 
Also scheduled for introduc­tion at the Photo Marketing Association show: new gold Kodak film packages. 

Wednesday, March 2, 1988 
The Observer page 9 
The 0.....Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Cen._, ..:ceplll cluallled -'-ti*'O from 10 Lm. until 4 p m. Monday through Fncs.,. The 0.....Saln1 Mery'a office, located on the third flO()( of ~Collge Centar, accepts clualfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Fncs.y. Deadline lor next-day clasallleds Is 3 p.m. All clasallleda must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In pefSOil or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per live a-.cten per day. 
NOTICES MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 WORDPROCESSING·TYPING  CAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT· lNG APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT· lNG INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM· PLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS OF CHICAGO. IF INTERESTED SET UP AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT· CAMPUS PAINTERS 2901 CENTRAL STREET EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 312·251·0151  I'm not coming backl!l One way ticket San Diego to Chicago March 201h $50 284·5258 i··~~~d· 2··GA;~· i~;··MAFiauiinEt.i<y~ 288·9103 N~;;;; ·;·M~;ci~~ti~ ii~k~t p-,~~;;;, x1367. , NeE:o Mu r1xs cALL Mii<E: x1597  Coke Coke Things We Won't Miss XII: Waterbed Ads  Coke  Want to know more about N.D.. its legends. legacy, people, places and traditions ? Buy the original N.D. Trivia game. Only $12. Call 289·1586 aher Bpm. j' ~~~d·~~;;;~· ;··2·t~fk. S0·;;;;;·;·2·~~~~ 2 luv Snookums 25 cent beers at BRIDGET'S  M. Mclaughlin is off the market The question is did he go at a prem1um or a discount? K. Lynn, Nancy, Siiri, Kevtn, Will, Kassis, & Brant: BREAK A LEG! Love, Dan  
272-8827  TONIGHT  
................................................................ Get ready lor Spring Break by sethng unwanted class books tor $S$ at Pan· dora's Books 808 Howard ( 1 block off NO Ave) Open 7 daySI week 10-5:30 Need Rtde to NEW YORK CITY of the near vtctntly lor SPRING BREAK!!! Can leave any day W1ll share expenses Please call Mtssy 271·0868  GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR SPRING BREAK??? Please call me. I'd like a rtde any day you're gotng. Shared expenses. Call Missy 271-0868 or leave message wtoo!'lmate. HAVE A FRIEND NEEDING A RIDE TO N.D. FROM PITTSBURGH APRIL 15 WEEKEND? FRIEND DRIVING UP FOR SR. FORMAL AND WOULD LIKE RIDERS. CALL DREW 3666.  PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. BEACH HOTEL LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL YOUR OFFICIAL N.D. HOTEL FOR  Tues. and Wed at CHIP's the return of MONARCH drink specials both nights you never knew how much i really liked you because i never even told you oh, and i meant to IRISH EVE$­ 25 CENT BEERS BRIDGET'S TONIGHT 25 CENT BEERS BRIDGET'S TONIGHT  oooooooowwE'ii£"ii£eiiE.iii..Hii..is SOOOO UUUUGL Y COMA FOR UMOC TALKS ON WVFITONIGHT AT B:OOLIS· TEN AND CALL INI sr.. F>Ars· oAv· A·wi:e· 8ir.eAFii.vtt ST. PAT'S DAY A WEE BIT EARLYII FIND THE LEPRECHAUNII TODAY, YES TODAY, FROM 4:00-4:10, HERE'S WHERE HE'LL BE ON CAMPUS: LAMBENT LAIR  
DON'T FORGET TO FARABAUGH HAPPY TODAYIIII!  WISH AMY BIRTHDAY  To gtrl wtth NEW YORK CITY ticket Yes, I want if I Please call Mtssy at 271 -0868. Leave message wtth roommate.  SPRING BREAK '88. The HOTSPOT of laud. Beach. Only $14~rs. (4toom) lor 8 days, 7 nights of tun, sun & surf. Call 1·800-ENJOY·US.  YOU LOOKED SO CUTE IN YOUR GREEN OUTFIT I DIDN'T HAVE THE NERVE TO SAY HI. IF YOU'RE  THE GRIND at BRIDGET'S Thurs. 6·9 pm  IF YOU FIND HIM THERE, SAY "LUCK 0' THE IRISH!" TO CLAIM A PRIZE. IF NOT, WELL, LOOK FOR CLUES 2 & 3 AND FIND HIM LATER THIS WEEKII  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. ................................................................ LOST/FOUND I LOST patr of eyeglssses··brown case wtlh tntllals DAL on back II found call Dave al 2506 LOST WOMEN'S GOLD WRISTWATCH WITH SQUARE FACE DURING JPW please call x3872 or x1581 If found ATTN: PREPROFESSIONAL & BIOL· OGY MAJORS. FOUND A BRACELET JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND FREIMANN & LIFE SCIENCE CENTER. CONTACT ROBERT SPENCE OR KAY STEWART AT 239·6086 OR 5393 TO IDENTIFY. LOST POLO JEAN JACKET W WALLET IN POCKET $25 REWARD PLEASE CALL PAUL Ol.lLAND AT 1747 LOST·burgandy wallet,on 2-28, some· where between Steppan and the library II lound please call Bob at 271 ·0758 Thanks LOST MY GOLD GUENE WATCH SOMEWHERE BETWEEN lYONS AND HAYES· HEALY IT HAS A BLACK FACE WITH A DIAMOND REWARD GIVEN IF RETURNED EXTREME SENTIMEN· TAL VALUE!! PLEASE CALL PATTY AT 2807 LOST-THURSDAY AFTERNOON LEFT MY BLUE N 0 SWEATSHIRT AT LAFORTUNE WASH IF YOU FOUND IT COULD YOU RETURN IT TO THE WASHROOM OR 302 ST ED'S THANKS TO THE PERSON WHO STOLE $70 FROM MY WALLET SAT NITE AT CAMPUS VIEW I'TS ALWAYS COOL TO ROB YOUR HOSTESS· ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU DRANK FREE I HOPE YOU ARE MAN ENOUGH TO RETURN IT .MEGAN STOLEN $70 FROM MY WALLET AT 308 CAMPUS VIEW NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF RETURNED THANKS FOR TAKING ADVANTAGE OF YOUR HOSTESS LOST: GLASSES IN BROWN LEAT· HER CASE WITH VELCRO CLOSURE AND BLACK GLOVES IN OR NEAR CUSHING LAST THURSDAY. CALL SCOTT AT 283-4798. Has anyone found a black T oshtba walkman? Its oeems to have been taken from my room a couple of weeks ago. II found. please return to Martlyn 1n 420 Lewts or call 3468 LOST gold Israeli cotn earnng. Lost Sal· urday somewhere between 02, Flanner, and Farley Please call Susan at 3838 il found Thanks  NEED RIDE TO PH ILL Y·DEL.AREA FOR SPA. BREAK LEAVE ANY DAY AND PAY$$$ CALL SCOTT AT 1663 CLEVELAND(east) I need a ride home lor sprtng break Maggte X4670 WANTED: BLOOD PLASMA DONERS. Help •ave a life and earn extr• cash at the same time. Naw and old donors who have not given within 30-days will be paid 512, caeh alter donating II you bring In this ad. Come to Amelcan Plasma on Tuesday, Wednesday, Frldey or Seturday. 515 Llncolnwsy Weal. South Bend, 234· 6010. NEEDED· 4TH FEMALE ROOMMATE FOR CAMPUS VIEW APT$. FOR 88·89 YEAR CONTACT AMY AT 4525 OR JEAN AT 4244 IF INTERESTED. DESPERATE!! need a rtde to Phila.. Pa area lor Sprtng Break. Call T rish M ~84· 4447! NEED RIDE TO CHGO. 314. WILL SHARE $ CALL KRISTIN 5249. TAMPA-ST PETERSBURG area ·I need a ride to Sarasota, Fl. or anywhere in this area lor Spring Break. Will share all expenses and even buy you lunch! Call Colleen at 1 366 or 1367 WANTED MARQUETTE TICKETS CALL MIKE AT 323·0550 GOING TO D.C. FOR BREAK???? We want to share rides wtlh you! Beth needs a nde there, Amy needs one back. PLEASE call Beth 2851 or Amy 4525 NEEDED: AIDE TO DC FOR SPRING BREAK-CALL JIMX3264 I need a rtde to New Je~~~y(~r ~~~;~~~d~ tng area) lor spring break!! II you can give me a liH call me at x1380, Mike. FOR SALE HELP! CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI· ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER. PLANE TICKET. NEW ORLEANS TO CHICAGO, SAT. MAR. 19, $60, CALL DAVID, 232·8327. UNITED LIMO TICKETS ·2 round trips to Chicago ·530 each. Call 233·3713 by March 3. ................................................................ FLY TO WASHDC AFTER FINALS, Thurs.. May 5. ONE WAY TICKET (in male's name) on United. Lv. SB 11:10AM. $75. Call Paula, 288·5158. FOR SALE:77ponl. Grand Prtx.p&~>b,new parts,85K mi.$600 offer. 287·3876.  BEACH HOTEL LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL YOUR OFFICIAL N.D. HOTEL FOR SPRING BREAK '88. The HOTSPOT ol Laud. Beach. Only $1491Jers. (4toom) lor 8 days, 7 nights of fun, sun & surf. Call 1 ·BOO-ENJOY ·US. coE:o.sicvci.:e· roi:ili~coi:.oRAoo ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF· TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY WELSHY HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY WELSHV HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY WELSHY HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY WELSHY H;,:;;·;;;,;···aifirfio'Av···;;·;;a·Fi:r...·H;;:;;;;v BIRTHDAY SPORT HAPPY BIRTHDAY SPORT HAPPY BIRTHDAY SPORT HAPPY BIRTHDAY SPORT Today is Jim Welsh;s Eiirthd~~ . Call him and wish him a happy birthday at £1157 or stop in and vis1t h1m personally -Aiumn1 Hall Interested Chemistry Grad Students, You're Invited to the wedding. -Mark and Laura A AJAX ........................................................... NEW YORK-Spring Break. Aide needed. Call Missy 271 ·0868.""'"'""' NEEDII A RIDE TO CLEVELAND, AKRON· CANTON VICINITY OR EXIT 1 1 ON THE OHIO TURNPIKE FOR SPRING BREAK!! CAN LEAVE AFTER 2:30 ON THURS. MARCH 10. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL THERESA AT X4238. SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII Q:WHAT IS A BID? A:A TICKET FOR TWO. Q:WHV IS A TICKET CALLED A BID? A:WE JUST DON'T KNOW WHVI SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII BID SALES TONIGHT 6-9 NEW ORLEANS ROOM LAFORTUNE SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIMMY happy birthday jimmy HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIMMY  GOING TO SEE PADDY'S RACKET TONITE AT THEO'S KEEP YOU'RE EYE OUT FOR THIS IRISH LAO Karen(Aebbeca De· Mornay)-met you in Almn. Sat. nile but never got a last name. We have an SYR 3-5. II interested call Chris(Felix) x1058 · KATHEAINA-Good Luck in your debut(?) as a tramp-WE LUV YOUI Lyss,Babsie,Maria PROVOLONE ................................................................ HAPPY BIRTHDAY KERRY O'ROURKE Ill 22 years ol living on the edga. Kaep up the good workI S.M.D. ································································ HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMY HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMY HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMY HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMY HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . HAPPY 19TH FARABAUGH WE LOVE YOUI!IIIIIII HUMMY'S 19 HUMMY'S 19 HUMMY'S 19 HUMMY'S 19 HUMMY'S 19 .................................................... Hey 14923 Brentwood· Two reasons to stick around and enjoy the ride· One, we'll be the talk of Chicago. Two, have you ever been treated this good? Ae· member. I don't give up if I want some· thing badly enough. Watch !he personals. FRED OOOOOOOOWEEEEEEEEEEIIIII He's uuuuuuuglyll COMA lor UMOC Coma Umoc Coma Umoc Remember, II he wins by a nose, It will be by a landallde. w·h·~~~--~~~-;;~~-;~~:·c-;~~;;·;;~;··9-;;·~~~­Tiny be huge, Haas eat 'em up Johnny K. smoke the water. Happy Pat go psycho. Fro-child be a man, Trillo put his b····on the line, Bill the Cat set his tail on lire, Dave L gel out of hand, Skully go out of hts head, Pokey move II, Billy Jack fly, Ajax clean up, a Swan Glide by, Spuds mash the competition. Sprout mow 'em down and Roger, too, only at Rolls Aquatic Center this Thurs. Fri, and Sal. HELPI!!iNEEDARiDETODALLASOA VICINITY OVER BREAK. WILL PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL GARY 4284. Coke Is IT To the short blond girl Call me, tell me what's happening The Irish Guy Jad Dieterle G;;;;d i~~k ·i~ B~~g~j;j 1 know you'll come through in the CLUTCHIII (Are you free Sal. night?) Pam A BRILLIANT METAPHOR FROM. A  90 cent Molsons THE GRIND at BRIDGET'S Thurs. 6·9 pm 90 cent MOLSONS ,:;;~ o:c:·ci:u8 sPiiiNG.iilie.:.:i<·j:iiis Is cancelled due to lack ol riders. A flat ol those who signed up can be picked up outside 109 Kaensn In order to halp those still without rides to ar­range them. Riiii"iicc"A..se.iiiE't:":~~~i··~-~~;:~··F';.:R·· LEY A.A. great job. good luck and best wishes from your brother cLAss··a;;· ·9;··c:t:Ass·aF·;9;···va:rE WITH GUMBY FOR FITZGERALD CENEDELLA RICHARDS BOEHLING ••• MARCH 8 ··• siiNioFis::· L~~-~-13~-o~i wiit.·:.\·9~~9 Vole Oiebei-Filzpatnck·McAIIisler-Fitz CAMPUS BANDSI CAMPUS BANDSI CAMPUS BANDSI Fruedian Slip has broken up and every· thing must go! Complete Peavy PA sys· tern Incl. mics, monitors, head, speakers, and dtgilal delay. Reasonably priced and essential lor any campus band. starting or pro. Call Keith 3289. 2·-r;:;E: ,;i-ior N·iiw M·iixtc"Af..i . HOWZ ABOUT MEETING ME UNDER A SOMBRERO FOR A LITTLE SIESTA? I KNOW IT SOUNDS A LITTLE "CAAZY" ... BUT YOU'RE SUCH A "CASANOVA"! HAPPY 20THI THE "HOT" TAMALE SOUTHPADREiiWE GOT7 BUT NEED 3 MORE FOR CONDO, $115 FOR THE WEEK,CALL DAN 1167 Dear Bob, Bush could never beat you as Vice Pres­ident Good luck. Mike HAIACUTS:ONL Y $4111 I'll come to YOUR rooml Call Jean 4244 Screaming mldgele from hell Screaming mldgete from hell Quit screaming and slay the hell out of the personals i:ooi<iNa.FoR.A.REAL.cli:..:owict<. /..~~;~:...................................................... Thanks lor delivering the milk and cookies lor Jeff. You're a sweetie! -Homogenized Milk  EVERYTHING YOU WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT N.D. AND DID NOT DARE ASKING-E IN THE ORIGINAL N.D. TRIVIA GAME. 4800 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS. NOW ONLY $12. CALL 289·1586 AFTER 8PM. VAIL TRIP We still have 4 spots openlll Cell Mtke 271·9448 or Paul 1116 rANz.·HAPPv 'EiiFii-Hi:iA'vi. HoPE. ir·s A GREAT ONE! LOVE,KARES BRIAN MCCARTHY I'M GLAD YOU ENJOYED YOUR BIRTHDAY BECAUSE IT'S POSSIBLE THAT YOU MIGHT NOT MAKE IT UN· TIL THE NEXT ONEil ................................................................ D. GALLIVAN EXPLODE! S. DAN GAMACHE Good luck tonight In Bengalatt We want to hear another countdown from tha crowd. Your Lewla Fane CHAMP, Will you be wearing your classy black jocks tonight? Walch out Sly, a new video star is born I Knock 'em dead T.C. 6~.;;;, M~c;~,y ~~d M~;,a c~v sMoKE OUR HOGSII You Know Who Hey you! Dtd you know !hal "F" doesn't stand lor FABULOUS?? Love, your latlhful roomte Farley's First Dynamic Duo SYRI Let's go girls, grab a date and come Friday nile as your favorite couple. Oon'l miss out! To Colleen, Arnie, and Tipp: We're all glad we got to celebrate the big 21st with you last Thurs. What a mean game of thumper, though! 2 NEED RIDE TO SE COAST OF FL iw PALM BEACH AREA) FOR BREAK CALL KATHY 2623 OR MARGARET 3847 MATT A. I HOPE YOU REALIZE THAT YOUR ONE OF THE BIGGEST JERKS I KNOW HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE (ALIAS HARDWARE HANK) HOPE YOU HAVE A ROCKIN' 19thlllllllllllll WE LOVE YOUIII M.B.A.,FRANZ, AND MALl TO MY HOG FRIENDS I'm really sorrr if I got anyone worrted over my problem  
FOR RENT RENT HOUSE DURING SUMMER CALL 232·3616 RENT CHGO APT! Sunny, lg 1 br In vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd lire, len, blnda, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In cleta, bamt atoraga,lndry. 112 blk to Lk Shore Dr bua, 2 blk to el train, Wrigley. 5650. Avail beg Apr 1. 312-871·3387 (NO '80) FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288·095!>255· 3684 2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID 288·0955 - Electra Westone Basse Marshall Bass20 Amp. T,ogether or separate. Marty 1106 350 YAMAHA 74 8000M $500 233-1485 BEFORE 10 PM ASK 4 MARTIN '83 Yamaha motorcycle lor sale. XT250K enduro. Good condition! Asking $850. Call Rick. 287 ·3048 The best giH lor all N.D. fans in all ages. The ortgtnal N.D. Trtvia Game. 4800 questtons and answers. Its lacstnaling ! Only $12. Call 289·1586. Mer Bpm. TICKETS I NEED ANY MARQUETTE TIX·CAAL  •••••••••• HAPPY BIRTHDAY .......... ........... JAMES WELSH ••••••••••• .......... HAPPY BIRTHDAY .......... COKE SWEETENS APARTHEID· SUPPORT THE BOYCOTTII "Buslnese & Society In Japan" Optional Cradl~lnanclal Aid International Internship Programs 406 Colman Bldg., 811 1st Ave. SeaHia, WA 88104 (206) 623-5539 HAPPY BIRTHDAY J ppppp w w J p p w w J J ppppp w w w JJPWWW JJJJJ p wwwww HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY  POPULAR STANDFORD STUD: "IT'S LIKE STICKING YOUR FINGER IN A JAR OF GRAPE JELLY." AIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO ON 31 1 CALL HOLLY 284·5485 T~ .;;~. ~;;~;~;;,~ gi;l ~;;~. p~~~;;;;. ;;;~. ~I the bus slop at noon the other day--your smile and "hello" knocked me out I'd like to meet you. lithe feeling is mutual. reply here. H~;. £i~ 2ii.she .h~ii~ i;~;;;. N~~..:i~;~~Y Her fans think she is AWESOME Her name is... KAREN ROBINSONIII MENDY I LOVE YOU BUTCHIE  GET INTO SHAPEII TRAIN EARL Y!l 1rs coMING!! c3i:r FiE:.:.:ov..Noii... i.i"AC"t<.ev PoPuLAA..oiiM"Af..io.. ·· E ENGINEERS' WEEK 1988 MARCH 21 ·25 CAST and CREW of AMADEUS "I don't believe it!" Opening night here already. If's been great working with you all and Rich and PJ !he Friday night parties have been awesome' Break a leg everyone! Matt YO NO SWIM TEAM GOOD LUCK MID· WEST DO ME PROUD AND SWIM  Saturday. Thanks for being such awesome friends and for keeping this a secret. I love you guys Ill -JAILBAIT .......................................••...•...... BRINO. YOU ARE A STUDI!! Our little boy is finally growing up!IYeall Traci, I'm sorry about the ltascol! Thanks lor being my best lrtendl Guys aren't worth IIIII love you! Laura REGATTA IS COMMING ... REGATTA IS COMING ... RiiG'iinii"is..coi:iiN·a::·_-...................... REGATTA IS COMING ... ................................................................ ELEVEN ELEVEN ElEVEN Only 1 1 More Days ELEVEN ELEVEN ELEVEN  -......  
£2187  JAMES PATRICK WELSH  P.E. SPIRIT WEEK  YOUR BUTTS OFF!II!III!!II KENNY B &  
WANTED  FLIGHT  TO  CHARLESTON  SC  FOR  P.E. SPIRIT WEEK You still have a lew days to gel involved!  ROCKY  SMC dtgs Coke  
BREAK.CALL 1678  HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM  GET PSYCHED FOR MONTE CARLO!  BIG ED MADE rr! BIG ED MADE ITI  
OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europa,S.Amer.,Auatralle,Aala. All llelda. 5900-2000 mo. Slghtaee­lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92825.  NEED FLIGHT TOFROM DC FOR BREAK? CAll 3705 To gtrl wtlh NEW YORK CITY ticket Yes, I want ill Please call Missy at 271 ·0868.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM  you were there when Chuck Yeager broke the sound barrier BE THERE when CRAZV PAT smashes the 2 minute bar· rier.  BIG ED MADE IT! Ed Campbell made president ol Mel Life Securilieslfl Every· one who knows him send congrats to: 30 Burnett Ter West Orange NJ 07052 I desperately need a ride to NJ.NYC area  Allante I always have a good t1me Maybe you should call me somettme  ....  
Leave message with roommate.  lor spring break. II you are driving please  
THANK YOU ST. JUDE  IRISH SWIMMING: WE  IMAGINED IT  call Marilyn at 3468.  
CAMP WINADU lor boya now hiring. High Salary plua Room and Board. If you would like to apand your aummer In Maaa .. wrllalo: Ooug, 290 Bradford  NEED 4 MARQUETTE GA OR STUD. CALL CHRIS X3389. DO YOU NEED A TICKET TO PADRE?  To girl wtlh NEW YORK CITY tick· eLVes, I want if! Please call Missy at  WE WORKED FOR IT LET IT HAPPEN I Good Luck Anne-Marie Walker and Jeff Heilert. You'll make great Jr. Class Offi­ To "The Family", my RA's & Fr M. You will always be in my thoughts I will miss you. Take care and smile for I shall return.  Two lovely ladles need ride to Phii>South Jersey area lor Spring Break. Will help play tolls and gas. Call Denise £2497 or  
Dr., Canfield, Ohio, 44406 or call 216­ MUST SELL $1911 I 312 TO 319  271 ·0868.  Leave message wtlh room·  cers! Luv. Amy  Friends till the end. Love always, Pope  Becky £2545  
533-7497 lor mora Information.  CALL DAN £4258  mate.  Uba  
- 

r-------­
page 10 -The Observer March 2, 1988 
Sports Wednesday 
S orts Lists Basketball Top 20. 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points, Points 

Ready, Aim ... Aim ... Aim ... 
based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized.

Slowest Free Throw Shooters in the NBA* 
1. Temple (44) 25-1 1234

(in seconds per shot) 
2. Purdue (12) 24-2 1185 3. Arizona (3) 26-2 1126 4. Oklahoma (4) 26-2 1114 5. Nevada-Las Vegas 25-3 908 6. No. Carolina 21-4 890 7. Pittsburgh 20-4 802 
8. Kentucky 20-5 786 
9. Duke 20-5 679 
10. Michigan 22-5 688 11. Iowa 20-7 581 12. Syracuse 21-7 572 13. Georgia Tech 21-6 442 14. Bradley 22-4 434 15. Brigham Young 23-3 425 
16. No. Carolina St. 20-6 394 22-5 314

Rodney McCray, Rockets 11.30 17. Wyoming 
18. Loyola (Calif.) 24-3 250 
19. Vanderbilt 18-7 171

Adrian Dantley, Pistons 10.28 
20. Xavier 22-3 45 Others receiving votes: So. Methodist 38, Florida

Mike Woodson, Clippers 9.87 
30, Indiana 30, Kansas St. 26, Seton Hall 24, Louis­ville 23, Georgetown 22, Kansas 17, Missouri 17,

Jack Sikma, Bucks 9.84 
DePaul 10, Arkansas-Little Rock 9, Texas-El Paso 6, Rhode Island 5, Auburn 4, Arkansas 3, No.

Louis Orr, Knicks 9.82 
Carolina A&T 3, Virginia Tech 3, Boise State 2, Illinois 2, Marshall 2, No. Carolina-Charlotte 2, Cal-Santa Barbara 1. 

*The fastest is: 
Sports Calendar

Manute Bol 1.88 Home games in CAPS Source: Basketball Heaven, 1987-88 Today 
Irish Wrestling 
Current Irish Wrestling Records 
118 pounds -Andy Radenbaugh 22-6 
126 pounds -Dave Smith 1-21 
134 pounds -Jerry Durso 26-5 -Dave Carlin 1..() 
142 pounds -Pat Boyd 6-1 -Ron Wisniewski 16-7 
150 pounds -Todd Layton 20-11 
158 pounds -Mark Gerardi 27-7 
167 pounds -Todd Tomazic 14-13 
177 pounds -Chris Geneser 28-4 
190 pounds -George Logsdon 13-12 
Heavyweight -Dominic Prinzivalli 1-16 -Jeff Massey 2-4 
Tournament Champions Michigan State Invitational Jerry Durso (134) Todd Layton (150) Chris Geneser (177) 
St. Louis Open Pat Boyd (142) 
Wyoming Invitational Chris Geneser (177) 
National Catholic Tournament Andy Radenbaugh (118) Jerry Durso (134) Ron Wisniewski (142) Todd Layton (150) Mark Gerardi {158) Chris Geneser (177) George Logsdon (190) 
lnterhall Hockey 
GOLD DIVISION 
w L T "Grace 6 0 0 "Off-Campus 4 1 1 M9rrissey 3 3 0 Dillon 3 2 1 St. Ed'&tloly Cross 3 3 0 Flenner 0 5 1 Keenan 0 5 1 ·-clinched playof1 berth 

BLUE DIVISION -w L T •Alumni 6 0 0 
"Cavanaugh 5 1 0 Stan1ord 3 2 0 Pangborn 3 3 0 Sarin 2 3 0 Fisher 0 5 1 Zahm 0 5 ·-clinched playoff berth 
BENGAL BOUTS SEMIFINALSScoreboard Women's Basketball at Illinois-Chicago 
Results for Feb. 24 through Mar. 1 
Thursday Men's Swimming hosts MIDWEST IN­
Basketball Men 

DEPENDENTS CHAMPIONSHIPS Vanderbilt 75, Notre Dame 66 Baseball at Indiana State Women Notre Dame 91, Valparaiso 56 
Friday
DePaul 69, Notre Dame 68 
BENGAL BOUTS FINALS 
Wrestling hosts NCAA WEST Notre Dame 6, Lake Forest 1 REGIONALS Notre Dame 4, Lake Forest 2 Men's Tennis vs. MARQUETTE Men's Swimming hosts MIDWEST IN­Wrestling 
Hockey 
DEPENDENTS CHAMPIONSHIPS Notre Dame 41, Marquette 7 
Hockey at ACHA P.layoffs (Dearborn) Women's Tennis at Ohio State
Baseball Notre Dame 14, Duke 11 Duke 9, Notre Dame 6 Saturday Wake Forest 22, Notre Dame 1 0 
Men's Basketball vs. MARQUETTE 
Wake Forest 12, Notre Dame 5 
Men's Tennis vs. OHIO STATE Wrestling hosts NCAA ' WEST
Swimming 
REGIONALS
Women Notre Dame places 5th in Midwest Indepen­Hockey at ACHA Playoffs (Dearborn) dent Invitational Championships Indoor Track at IC4A's 
Men's Swimming hosts MIDWEST IN­Tennis 
DEPENDENT CHAMPIONSHIPS Men Notre Dame 6, Purdue 3 
Sunday
Colorado 6, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 9, Bowling Green 0 Baseball at Indiana (2) Notre Dame 9, Cincinnati 0 Women's Tennis at Michigan 
Women Fencing at Midwest Regional Colorado 7, Notre Dame 1 
Indoor Track at IC4A's 
Miami (Ohio) 7, Notre Dame 2 Illinois 8, Notre Dame 1 
Monday 
Fencing Men 
Men's Basketball vs. HARDIN-Notre Dame wins Great Lakes Championship 
SIMMONS 
Women Notre Dame places second in Great Lakes 
NBA Standings
Championship Eastern Conference
NHL Standings 
Atlantic Division WALES CONFERENCE w L Pet. GB Adams Division Boston 39 17 .696 
w L T GF GA Pis. Philadelphia 23 32 .418 15.5 Montreal 36 20 10 242 204 82 New York 22 32 .407 16 Boston 37 22 5 249 200-79 Washington 22 32 .407 16 Buffalo 29 26 9 225 241 67 New Jersey 12 42 .222 26 Hartford 26 30 7 192 210 59 Central Division Quebec 26 33 4 222 240 56 Detroit 35 18 .660 
Patrick Division Atlanta 35 20 .836 1 Philadelphia 33 22 7 229 220 73 Chicago 31 25 .554 5.5 NY Islanders 30 24 9 245 215 69 Milwaukee 29 24 .547 6 Washington 31 26 6 215 188 68 Indiana 29 25 .537 6.5 NY Rangers 27 29 8 242 230 62 Cleveland 28 29 .491 9 New Jersey 28 32 5 226 246 61 Pittsburgh 25 30 9 241 259 59 Western Conference 
Midwest Division CAMPBELL CONFERENCE W L Pet. GB Smythe Dvlslon DaUas 38 17 .691 
w L T GF GA-Pis Denver 33 21 .611 ' 4.5 Calgary 37 20 7 302 242 81 Houston 32 21 .604 5 Edmonton 35 21 8 289 228 78 Utah 28 26 .519 9.5 Winnipeg 28 27 9 237 241 65 San Antonio 21 31 .404 15.5 Los Angeles 25 37 5 251 295 55 Sacramento 16 39 .291 22 Vancouver 21 38 7 225 259 49 Pacific Division 
Norris Division L.A. Lakers 45 9 .833 Detroit 31 24 8 255 219 70 Portland 34 21 .618 11.5 St. Louis 29 30 5 222 225 63 Seattle 29 27 .518 17 Chicago 26 31 7 226 257 59 Phoenix 17 37 .315 28 Toronto 19 36 10 230 272 48 Golden State 14 39 .264 30.5 Minnesota 17 38 9 197 271 43 L.A. Clippers 12 40 .231 32 

Basketball Playoff Brackets 
Brackets lor the double-elimination men's Inter­hall basketball playoffs, which conclude with the championship games on Sunday night In the Joyce ACC Pit. 


Brackets lor the double-elimination women's lnterhall basketball playoffs. 

3/8~--­
7p.m. 

Welsch. LW 
BankowSke, RW 
Chli$ Kleva, LWi::::w · 
Roy Bemiss, 0 Tom Atzgerald, ·LW 
John Ghla, RW BNI L~rman, RW Millllael Lenerr, .o FrankO'Ekiiln, 0 
Bruce Haikola, D 
Tim Caddo, D 
Phil Shaffalo, RW Andy Slaggert: RW 
Desmond Curran, 0 
Chris Olsen, C 
Lance Madson, G 
John Carlin, 0 Craig Kleis, LW 
Bench 
NOTRE DAME 31 
OPPONENTS 31 
SCORING BY PERIODS Notre Dame Opponents 
GOALTENDERS MIN Lance Madson 1570 Mark O'Sullivan 220 Steve Hurd 51 Dave Kolata 49 
PTS PIM PPG GW 69 12 12 1 14,,.,,..... 2 3 
22"'''''! 6 5 38 8 5 2 38 34 1 3 35.w 38 11 1 
3s·'if!Mt 20 ,..,,,,,,:::,:,.. 8 1 
33 4 3 2 12 26 10 0 2 16 26 36 1 2 
.22 25 46 2 0
:·····+a 

18 30 0 1 9 14 4 0 0 7 13 6 0 1 7 11 2 0 0 8 10 32 0 0 
4 6 10 4 0 0 3 6 9 0 0 0 5 4 9 0 0 0 0 9 9 28 0 0 5 2 7 14 0 1 1 6 7 27 0 0 1 6 7 4 1 0 2 4 6 6 0 0 5 1 6 6 1 0 1 3 4 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 
212 339 551 418 54 25 109 166 275 528 30 4 
1 2 3 OT T 72 66 72 2 212 37 39 33 0 109 
RCD G GAA svs PCT so 22·4·2 92 3.51 686 .881 2 2-D·O' 12 3.27 58 .829 0 1-0-0' 4 4.71 12 .750 0 0..()-0' 0 0.00 15 1.000 0 
Financal aid turned you down, but you $ still need a job on campus. $ 
The Observer can solve your problem. We are currently looking for committed, dependable, and diJ igent students to typeset once a week. 
Please  contact  Mark  Ridgeway  for  more  
information.  
$  $  



Wednesday, March 2, 1988 The Observer page 11 
• The Observer I Trey Raymond 
Steve Nlcgorskl goes through his free throw shooting ritual against Vale earlier this season. Pete Skiko features Nicgorski and fellow walk-on Chris Nanni at right. 

~ffiJ@fRlU~ 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTEHS & TOURS 
287·8677 
FREE TOPPINGS! 
Any Size Pizza With Unlimited Toppings For The Cheese Pizza Price: 1 0" -$4.50 14" -$6.50 

Nanni, Nicgorski play role larger than last two minutes 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
Time is running down in the contest as the Notre Dame men's basketball team is in the latter stages of polishing off an opponent during the regular season. The Irish starters head to the bench and the sparse crowd remaining at the JACC are about to get what they've been waiting for. 
"Entering the line-up for the Irish, number 11 Chris Nanni and number 20 Steve Nic­gorski. ... " 
The Irish fans go wild as the walk-ons try to cram a season's worth of practice into a minute or two of playing time. Nanni gets the ball and members of the throng scream for at least an attempted shot. Nicgorski gets fouled and the students in the stands lean forward in an­ticipation of marveling at his unusual, semi-effective, free­throw shooting style. 
What some of those fans may not realize is that the effect of the walk-ons' impact on the team extends far beyond those hectic couple of minutes at the end of a lopsided contest. But that's all right with Nanni and Nicgorski. 
"Contrary to what people might think, it really gets me pumped up when the crowd starts calling my name to get into the game," says the 6-7, 205-pound Nicgorski. "I guess I really didn't expect it when it first happened, and Digger makes the final decision as to whether I get in or not, but it's nice to know that people want to see Chris and I get into the game." 
"I think it's kind of funny," says Nanni, a senior from Ak­ron, New York. "I know that a lot of (the cheering) is in the form of the guys from Sorin giving me a hard time. But it's really flattering to hear your name coming down from the stands, even if it is just to see the walk-ons get into the game." 
Both Nanni and Nicgorski realize that playing isn't their primary role on the team. Nan­ni, in his second year as an 

rw;====================~~discipline I've taught myself is 
Are you interested? 
·interested in helptng to manage and 
account for $~lPO ;,oo??? 
If you are... 
II you are a 
SOPHMORE BUSINESS MAJOR 
who enjoys 
working 
with 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU 
TI1c Siudcm Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body ~asurcr in disbursing fund~ for: 
Student Government SUB Halls clubs and organizations 

·n,is position will prepare you Applicalions arc available in lhc for becoming lhc SJUdcnl Body Treasurer's officc.2nd noor of Treasurer the following year. La Fortune, 12:30-4:30p.m. 
applications arc due on Wed. March 2 by 4:00p.m. 
ANY QUESTIONS? 
Contact Michelle Zinser at 239-7417 

. Nicgorski. "I feel very for­
l-.:::===================::-1' tunate to be a part of the Irish 
tradition." 

Irish walk-on, takes his true role on the squad to heart. 
"For me, the gametime is unimportant," comments the 5-11, 165-pound guard. "I know that's not my role, and that when I do get into games it's never in a very serious posi­tion. The playing is all a bonus. A lot of people have misconcep­tions about walk-ons--they think they're in the same situa­tion as the rest of the players. That's not so. You know you're going to be on the bench, and that's never bothered me. 
"But that's not to say that we're not treated the same during the season by Digger or the rest of the guys. We're taken seriously and that's good because we take our job of hel­ping the rest of the guys get ready for games seriously. Practice is a big deal for me. I try to do it the best I can every day." 
Nicgorski, a veteran in his third year with the Irish, is thankful for the chance to play with a talented team that helps him develop his own game. 
"Your limitations are really highlighted playing with these guys," says the South Bend na­tive. "In my first couple of years I was in there scrapping with guys like Jim Dolan, Tim Kempton, Donald Royal, and Ken Barlow. You could say I was a bit intimidated because the caliber of their play was so much higher than what I was used to. But the good side of that is that you can't help but improve when you try to defend players like that day in and day out.'' 
The two seniors have learned to stick together during the year and have become good friends as a result of their ex­perience. 
"I can't imagine what it would be like without someone else there that's going through the same thing I am," says Nanni. "Even as a walk-on, you go through the same ups and downs during the course of a season as anyone else, and it makes it easy when another guy is looking at things from your perspective." 
"I play Chris one-on-one all pretty substantial." 
"You just won't find a coach more supportive of his players doing well in school than Dig­ger," says Nicgorski, a govern­ment major who used to deliver newspapers to the Phelps house while in grade school. "Our team GPA was really high last semester, and Dig­ger's a big reason why. You'll never see him schedule a really late practice and if you've got a big test coming up he'll give you a break as far as practice goes." 
Nanni lays to rest the notion that the walk-ons live lives of high work and a low profile both on the team and on campus. 
"It's been an incredibly valu­able experience," says Nanni, "and one I've really enjoyed. I've met a lot of great people 
and  learned  things  about  
myself that will take me  far  
into the future."  

"I wouldn't have traded my experience for anything," says the time during practice,'' adds Nicgorski. "He usually kills me, he's too quick. But we've been able to travel almost everywhere the rest of the team has this year and we've had a lot of fun with it. He's a really good guy, but then again, so is everyone else on the team. Nobody's cocky--they all make you feel like you belong on the team." 
The legacy of Steve Nic­gorski is ironically centered around his free-throw shooting ability and technique. After missing all six of his free throws as a sophomore, Nic­gorski was looking for a new style. He found it while review­ing a game tape last year. 
"We were preparing for Kansas last year," says Nic­gorski, "and while watching a game film of Kansas and Wic­hita State, Digger and I saw Wichita's Henry Carr hold the ball out in front of him and con­centrate on the hoop before he shot. Digger told me, 'From now on, that's the way you're going to shoot free throws.' 
"I thought he was kidding. But sure enough, he made me practice like that, and the next game I played in, I looked over at him before I went to the line and he said, 'Do it like you've practiced,' and I made them." 
Both Nanni and Nicgorski received offers to play on the varsity teams of smaller schools, but turned them down to come to Notre Dame, not knowing that they would even­tually play on Notre Dame's varsity. As their 3.4 GPAs at­test, they take their schoolwork as seriously as they do their basketball. 
"That's why I can almost consider my Notre Dame expe­rience a dream come true," says Nanni, a double major in theology/computer applica­tions. "I'm getting a great edu­cation and playing basketball at a big time sports school. It's tough to manage both if you want to do well. I mean, after just going through two-and-a­half hours of intensity at prac­tice, it's hard to get psyched to study. You have to give up some things, but I think it's worth it in the long run. The 

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, March 2, 1988 

By CHRIS PAULISON Sports Writer  point guard Dan Niedermeyer displays some confidence reflecting on his ballclub.  hustle this team is character­istic of producing,'' said Flan­nery. "For us to win, we must  
And then there were six...  "We may not be as tall as the  cause numerous turnovers and  
Of the fifty-two teams that  other two teams," said Neider­ hit the floor for every loose  
began play back in early  meyer, "but our ability to block  ball."  
December, only an elite group  out and gain position under the  In B-league action, Sorin has  
of six remain in contention for  boards, should earn us some  experienced a fate analagous  
the men's Interhall basketball  easy hoops at the other end of  to Stanford A-1 in the A-league.  
championship.  the court."  With wins over Flanner and the  
Coasting through the winners  Keenan achieved its status  Off-Campus Whitesnakes, the  
bracket flawlessly, Stanford A- with tight victories over Stan- Otters have advanced to the  
1 earns a trip to the ACC Pit  ford A-2 and Morrissey.  championship round. The win­ 
where they will vie for the A- Keenan boasts a set-up offense  ner of tonight's Dillon versus  
Division crown. Tonight's  in which the guards kick the  Off-campus matchup will be  
clash between Keenan and in- ball into bigmen Tom Dwyer  awarded a ticket to the ACC Pit  
trahall rival Stanford A-2 will  and Bryan Tucker. Dwyer and  Sunday evening.  
determine the Studs' opponent.  Tucker, both standing over 6-3,  
Because Keenan and Stanford  represent the most formidable  Dillon, like Keenan, lost their  
A-2 have suffered playoff  frontcourt of the three teams.  first playoff game and has  
losses, the victor will be re- After dropping their opening  sneaked through the loser's  
quired to defeat the Studs in  playoff game to tonight's op­ bracket. Assuming this  
two successive attempts to  ponent, Keenan, Stanford A-2  "cinderella role", the Big Red  
gain the crown.  has rallied with victories over  has responded with a pair of  
Stanford A-1 has had little  Sorin and Morrissey. Point  offensive explosions provided  
trouble keeping their playoff  guard Ray Flannery credits  by junior guard Pat Marget.  
record unblemished. After a  forwards Chris Perozek and  
first round bye, Al Martin and  Terry Maag for providing  Dillon's opponent will be the  
Company downed the Holy  much of the scoring as of late.  Off-Campus captained by Mike  
Cross Hogs by a twelve-pointmargin, and then sent Keenan  Flannery also commented on his team's playoff future.  Szymanski. Off-Campusdefeated Cavanaugh and  The Observer I John Studebaker  
into the loser's bracket, win­ "With our backs to the wall,  O.C.Madison before succumb- Men's lnterhall basketball playoff action is heating up. At left, Chris  


Both Stanfords may battle for men's IH hoops crown 
ning by ten buckets. Senior PIliliiio.-oiiiik•f•o•r.-e._ve•n•milliioilre.._oiiif._.thile-llli·iiiii.-tll:o;.iSIIiolirliiinii..,._______P•a•u•l•is•o•n•l•o•o•k•s•a•t•h•o•w-th•e•f•in•a•l•s•ix-te•a•m-s.igi.o.t•w•h•e•r•e•t•heliy-a•re•. _ .. 
NVA sets deadlines 
Special to The Observer 
Non-varsity athletics has an­nounced the following entry deadlines: 
Today: 
•Sneaker broomball. A one day open tournament will be held March 5 at the JACC ice rink. 
NVA also has pledge cards available for the Century Club until today. Members fill out a pledge card at NVA, pick an aerobic activity, choose a goal to work toward and complete a log book. Free t-shirts awarded for working out. 
Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non­

contact sports. Forms and The American Express* Card gets an outstanding welcome virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket
more information are avail­

or a leather-bound classic. Whether vou·re bound for
able in the NVA office. 

a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college and after. it's the perfect way to pay for JUS! aboutHall of Fame everything you 'II want. 
elects no one How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we Associated Press believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card ri?,ht now TAMPA-No one was elected Whether you're a freshman. senior or to baseball's Hall of Fame grad student, look into our new automatic Tuesday by the Veterans Com­approval offers For details, pick up an mittee following a four-and-a­application on campus Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for
half hour meeting. 
astudent application
Phil Rizzuto, considered to 

be the leading candidate The American Express Card. 
among the old-timers, was Don't Leave School Without It~"' 
again denied entrance into the 
shrine. The 20-member panel, 
which includes Hall of Famers 
Ted Williams, Stan Musial and 
Roy Campanella, was unable to 
give any of the candidates the 
required 75 percent for elec­
tion. 
"We couldn't get enough votes to put anybody in," Musial said after the commit­tee met for four-and-a-half hours. "It's disappointing." 
Ed Stack, president of the Hall of Fame, said voting was scattered and that there were "some close calls." Vote totals are not announced, although it was learned four people had been in serious contention. 

Several committee members expressed displeasure with the TRAVEL 
RELATED
voting process for the old-
SERVICES 

timers. ------­

Wednesday, March 2, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Big Ten looks tc make big mark in NCAA's 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Purdue, Mic­higan, Iowa and Illinois should be the Big Ten basketball teams who make the biggest impact in the NCAA tourna­ment this year. 
Big Ten coaches, in their weekly telephone interview Tuesday, said they felt Illinois was probably the most im­proved team in the conference and put the Illini in line with No. 2 Purdue, No. 10 Michigan and No. 11 Iowa as an NCAA title contender. 
"Illinois is playing well over the level of play earlier in the year," said Michigan State Co­ach Jud Heathcote. 
"A little improvement could carry Purdue all the way," he added. "With its talent, Mic­higan could get red hot." 
Heathcote, whose Spartans captured the NCAA title in 1979, said that "Purdue and Mic­higan could make it to the Final Four and win it all. 
"Illinois and Iowa are explo­sive clubs and, on any given night, can beat anybody, but maybe they're not good enough to sustain it for five or six games." 
Illinois, 18-9, is unranked. But the Illini have won five of their last six games -including a 75-65 victory at Indiana on Monday night that put aside the theory that Illinois is incapable of beating a good team on the road. 
"Our club has improved a lot," said Illinois Coach Lou Henson. "We were not good on offense and we were struggling on defense and rebounding. 
"Now we are rebounding, playing defense and have im­proved on offense. The club is better but still needs improve­ment." 
Most of the coaches conceded that Purdue, heading for the undisputed Big Ten title, is the best team in the conference. 
"You have to like Purdue's experience," said Iowa's Tom Davis. "But don't put Michigan too far behind them. Michigan is improving. Illinois had an outstanding game against In­diana and Indiana has a lot of talent, but don't count us out at Iowa." 
Minnesota's Clem Haskins said Illinois "is as good as anyone. They are the most im­proved from January 15 to this point. 
"Purdue is still the team to beat. Michigan is strong and Iowa is playing extremely well.'' 
·Group Charters & Tours ·Card T.:-bles 
• 
Restrooms • Radios 

• 
Your DESIGNATED Driver •Tape Playli•S 


CARDINAL 
CHARTERS -&-rbURS 
287·8677 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend IN 4 17 
56 boxers remain 

Bouts to continue tonight 
Special To The Observer 
The 58th annual Bengal Bouts tournament will continue tonight at Stepan Center with 56 boxers competing in the semifinals. The action gets un­derway at 7:30. Tickets are available at the door. 
Winners in the 14 weight classes tonight will advance to the finals, which will be this Friday night beginning at 7:30. Drawing a bye past the semi­final round are the two Super Heavyweight boxers, Dan 'The Man' Quinn and Brian Shan­non. Their fight will be the last one of the evening Friday. The competition tonight and Friday will be in the order of weight classes shown below. 
NAME HALL 
Bantamweights (128 lbs and under) 
Mike 'The Polecat' Polcari Keenan 
John 'All Man' Manfredy Grace 
Eric 'Dingo' Bender Flanner 
Joe 'Doomsday' Dieterle Dillon Featherweights (128-135 lbs.) Eric 'Smilin' Feder Dillon 
Chris 'Mad Dog' Boroski Alumni 
Tim 'The Shepard' O'Loughlin Dillon Laurin 'Bad Dude' Dodd Alumni Jr. Lightweights (135-140 lbs.) Matt 'Sadd Muhammed' Morrow Off Campus Troy 'Slam' Duncan Flanner 
Mike 'High' Noone Keenan Mike 'Mr. Magoo' Joyce Morrissey Lightweights (139-142 lbs.) Dave 'Respect Your' Elder Morrissey Mike 'Candy Man' Caravan Flanner 
Tim 'TH' Hartigan Morrissey 
Mike 'Mister' Meyer Dillon 
Jr. Welterweights (144-146.5 lbs.) 
Tim 'T-Bone' Reardon Sorin David 'Sugar' Kane Flanner Kevin 'Vigilante' Duggan Norm 'Stormin' Norman' Conley Welterweight (147-148 lbs.) Matt 'The Mauler' Potts Doug 'Boom-Boom' Biolchini 

John 'Bull-Bull' Bastian Sean 'The Commie Killer' O'Brien Super Welterweight (148-152 lbs.) Paul 'Nose' Kluckow Dave 'Mtn. of Molten Lust' Crouse 
Mike 'The Hammer' Keegan Syed 'Bengali Tiger' Haider Jr. Middleweight (153-157 lbs.) Ken 'Sting' Scheve Paul 'Krunch' Kohl 
Andy 'Shakin' Baker Chuck 'Charles in Charge' Moser Middleweight (157-161 lbs.) Pat 'The Bleeder' O'Neill Steve 'Slim' Riedl 
Joe 'May-Day' Nelson Vance 'Pretty Boy· Becklund Super Middleweight (161-164.5 lbs.) Tom 'T' Stahl Chris 'Murph' Murphy 
Dan 'The Anchor Man' Gamache Marty 'M-Train' Falkenberg Lt. Heavyweight (165-168 lbs.) Chris 'Boom-Boom' Balint John 'The Legend' Schmit 
Tom 'K.O.' Cummings Mike 'Hello Holmes' Kelly Crulserwelght (169-175 lbs.) Kevin 'Special K' Kramec Brendan 'Honky Tonk Man' Max 
Bill 'The Annihilator' Angrick Brad 'Pit Bull' Benson Super Crulserwelght Greg 'Skid' Rowe Mike 'Silk' McQuick 
John Showel Ricky 'Slick' Purcell Heavyweight John Uhll Pat Griffin 
Richard 'Richie Rich' Jennings Panos 'The Terminator' Tsicopoulus 
Drawing byes to Friday night's finals 
Super Heavyweight Dan 'The Man· Quinn Brian Shannon Flanner Keenan 
Morrissey Dillon 
Dillon Keenan 
Off Campus Flanner 
Alumni Off Campus 
Morrissey Carroll 
Off Campus Flanner 
Keenan Grace 
Morrissey Grace 
Keenan 
Flanner 
Off Campus Alumni 
Keenan 
Grace 
Zahm Morrissey 
Grace 
Morrissey 
Grace Off Campus 
Off Campus Flanner 
Off Campus Morrissey 
Off Campus Fisher 
Fisher 
Fisher 
Sorin 
Dillon 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
LIP SYNC CONTEST 
LaFortune. 

Saturday, March 5 
10:00 p.m. 


20 hot acts going for a $200 Grand Prize!!! 
n ~ 


FORMALWEAR FITTING 
AND 
SAVINGS EXTRAVAGANZA! 
Louie's Tux Shop and the formal committee invite you to attend a formalwear ntting party, on campus, for the upcoming Notre Dame and Saint Mary's formal. You'll be professionally fitted for your tux... plus you'll receive a special discount on our selection of formalwear, including: 
Basic Black Tux........••. $.39.95* Designer Black Tux...... $49.95* Basic Tails..........••....... $49.95* Designer Tails.....•••••.•• $54.95* 
Come to the Louie's Tux Shop formalwear fitting party on campus. You'll find the style you want to make you look your best. .. and special savings on your tuxedo rental. 
WHEN: March 1, 2, .3 (Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday) WHERE: LaFortune Center (March 1 &: 2, first floor); LeMans Hall (March .3, Lobby) TIME: 6-9 p.m.
Sponsored by SUB & Theodore's 



"We Make You The Event!" 
'Does not Include damage waiver fee, and shoes.
MYSTERY JUDGES! 
~--------~­

~----------~ -~~ ~-----­
Wednesday, March 2, 1988
page 14 The Observer 
PW, 9-0, is early favorite 
• Sports Briefs
1n women's IH basketball t 
By BOB MITCHELL who defeated Breen-Phillips on sive boards the entire game. Sports Writer Sunday night. Lyons defeated B.P. played a 2-3 zone through­Breen-Phillips, 38-36 in an over­out most of the contest that en­The momen's Interhall bas­time that had to be played abled them to slow down the 
ketball league is conducting its twice. This replaying of over­tempo. own version of the Final Four time was caused by a misin­Lewis, a small but quickin the gyms of the ACC. The terpretation by one of the team, pressed man-to-man 
selective participants are referees regarding the keeping from tip-off to the final buzzer. Pasquerilla West, Lyons, of time. The official was under Yet, B.P. was able to effec­Lewis, and Breen-Phillips. the impression that clock ran tively dismantle the press.
P.W. seems to be the odds-on continuosly during overtine yet "B.P. controlled the boards favorite to capture the title. NVA rules dictate that the and did not allow us to get any 
The first playoff action took clock must stop in the event of second shots," said coach Tom place on Sunday night. P.W. foul shots and jump balls. Zadar. ''They handled our handily defeated Lewis by a The protest was issued by press very well and that hurt 
score of 40-27 extending their Lyons because nearing conclu­us." overall record to 9-0. These two sion of regulation, Lyons had B.P.'s play was highlighted teams squared off against each an opportunity to win the game by Vicky Booth and Cynthiaother in the regular season with from the charity stripe with 45 Guican. Guican, the high
P.W. edging Lewis by one seconds to go, but never got the scorer with 12 points, poured in point, yet Lewis could not even chance to shoot because time shots from inside the lane while 
the record up. P.W.'s excellent expired. The NVA granted the Booth played a well-rounded play was keyed by Jill protest thus giving Lyons a game at both ends of the floor. Bodensteiner. second chance. Coach Jeff Peters was happy
"Jill's play was superb in the 

Lyons took advantage of the that his team was able to win paint and that was the reason opportunity and defeated B.P. this game especially since the we won the game," said AI by a slim margin. loss to Lyons was fresh in his Martin who was substituting In the consolation bracket of players' mind. for regular coach Gary Sasse. the playoffs, B.P. immediately ''The loss to Lyons was 
Martin believed that another had to take on Lewis after their frustrating but this game was important factor in their win disappointing loss. However, do or die," sais Peters. "I was 
was the effectiveness of their B.P. con­
bounced back and particularly satisfied because press. P.W. utilized a diamond­quered Lewis, 38-36. B.P. took the bitter taste of the loss was 
and-one press to dictate the fast advantage of its height and con­in our mouths yet we went out tempo, at which P.W. excels. trollPrl thP offensive and defen-and won." 
Regular coach Gary Sasse believes that his team's suc­cess is bound to continue as long as it keeps playing at this present level. 
"We have the best talent in the league and the only way we could lose is if we beat our­selves," said Sasse. "We must play an up-tempo game and our 

Your education will not end with graduation. As a grad~
press must work. 
uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will
In fact, the press is what got 
receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orientation
P.W. to the playoffs. Through­
where you will further develop your professional skills.
out the entire season opponents 
Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the 
have fallen victim to this har­
growth opportunities that a world-class med1cal center 
rassment and have not been 
can provide. 
able to effectively attack it. 
Spring grarJuates apply now for positions available
Lewis' coach Tom Zadar 
in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attractive benefit
believes that this was the cause 
package.
of his team's demise. "We could not break their 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo
press and that threw off our en­
Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose 
growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital.
tire game," said Zadar. 
Zadar pointed out that P.W. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital, Personnel Services,
shot exceptionally well from 
Nursing Recruitment Section, 201 West Center Street,
the floor and their ability to go 
Rochester, MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect).
the bench for reinforcements 
played an important role in the 
outcome of the game. 
Rochester Methodist HosR_ita_l_ 
''P.W. is going to be tough for 
A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITAL 
anybody to beat twice," said 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Zadar. Next in line for P.W. is Lyons 
Alumni 
continued from page 16 
fidence on Monday night with 
a 9-1 shellacking of Sorin. 
Three players CVairo, Flynn, 
and Brach) tallied two goals 
apiece, as the Dogs ran over 
the Screamin' Otters. 
"We have three solid lines, a 
good defense, and a good 
goalie," said Brach. "We think 
we can win it." 
The Cavemen of Cavanaugh, though certainly not conceding defeat to Grace, are very happy just to make the playoffs. 
"It's been a lot of fun," said Cavanaugh captain Hugh Wade. "We've got the whole dorm behind us. We haven't had a winning team in any sport all year." 
Cavanaugh finished the season with a Iaugher against Fisher to wrap up the runner­up spot, but received the worst seed and now must face Grace. 
"Grace is a heck of a team," said Wade,"But we'll try to beat 'em with hustle, not tal­ent." 


Late registration for men's Bookstore Basketball will be held today from 3-5 p.m. in the SUB offices in LaFortune. Any questions, call Mike at 1962. -The Observer The Blue Line Club is sponsoring a trip to the ACHA playoffs in Dearborn, Mich. The bus leaves Friday and returns Saturday after the game or Sunday morning. Cost is approximately $30 and accomodations are available at the Hyatt Regency at $65 a room. -The Observer IH floor hockey is looking for referees. The pay is $7 per game. If interested, stop by the NVA office today or tomorrow. -The Observer ' Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held tomorrow from 7-9 p.m. in Room 108 LaFortune. There is a $5 entry fee. For more in­formation, call Barbara at 284-5073. -The Observer The Sailing Club will have a meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in 204 O'Shaugnessy. -The Observer The Water Polo Club will have mandatory practices today and tomorrow beginning at 6 p.m. All those traveling to Iowa this weekend must at­tend. Please note change in time and place. Any questions, call Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Ob­server  
Applications for FRESHMAN ORIENTATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE can be picked up starting Tuesday, March 1 at the Student Government Offices on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Applications will be due Monday, March 7 by 4:00 p.m.  
Lecture by: Arthur Schlesinger -one of America's most influential historians and cherished writers -former special assistant to President John F. Kennedy -author of The Age of Jackson, winner of Pulitzer Prize for history -author of A Thousand DaY.s: John F. Kennedy in the White House, winner of Pulitzer Prize for biography March 7, 1988 Washington Hall 8:00 pm Tickets $2.00 Available at The Cellar Feb 29 -March 4 Sponsored by Student Union Board  

Wednesday, March 2, 1988 The Observer page 15 
~Campus 
Wednesday 
11: :m a.m.: Economics Department Labor Workshop with Dale Belman, Univer­sity of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Noon: Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture, "Democracy and Civic Virtue: From the Greek Ideal to the Modern American Reality," by Adlai Stevenson, Chicago, Room 220 Law School Courtroom. 
12:10 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Collisions Between Relativistic Nuclei: The Quest for Matter at High Density and Temperature," by Dr. Braun-Munzinger, from Stony Brook, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 7:30p.m.: Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 Center for Continuing Education. 7::10 p.m.: Faculty Conversations on Connections; An Historical View of the Development of Science & Technology, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 8 p.m.: Theology Lecture, "The Newtonian Settlement and the Origins of Modern Atheism," by Father Michael Buckley, National Conference of Catholic Bishops, Hesburgh Library auditorium. 8:10p.m.: Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents "Amadeus," tickets 
$5 and $6, Washington Hall.  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Clam Strip Roll  Grilled Pork Chops  
Lasagna  Beef Tacos  
Cheese Stuffed Pepper  Cajun Chicken Stir Fry  
Poached Scrod  Deli Bar  


M A 
T H 
1 
0 1 

Comics 
Bloom County 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Ginger cookie 5 Obstreperous 
child 9 Press 13 Make 
enthusiastic 15 Glib talk 16 Mex. boy 17 Goddess of 
peace 18 Pilaster 19 Canter 20 Game birds 22 Formerly 23 March date 24 Overacted 26 Wire fastening 30 -Scott 31 Scarlett's 
home 32 Melody 35 Reserve 39 Painting style 41 Fragment 42 Bowl or bar 43 Dissipate 

44 Be superior to ".1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
03/02/88

Ail Rights Reserved
46 Pilaf base 

47 Nobleman 49 Miserable 6 Run -around 51 Become (outdo) 
confused 7 Feed the kitty 53 High-priced 8 One who 55 Proceed bullyrags 
smoothly 9 Amiably 56 Political 10 Cheerful 
adherent 11 Assured 62 Chin. city 12 Eminent 63 Colorful ocean 14 Risk 
fish 21 Conception 64 Declaim 25 Disorder 65 Border on 26 Pack 66 Frost 27 Mulberry bark 67 Rocky Mt. tree 28 Turk. river 68 Essential part 29 Relinquished 69 Philippine 30 Facts 
volcano 33 Croissant 70 Smooth 34 Fury 36 Touched down 
DOWN 37 Tribe 1 Vessel 38 Biblical spot 52 Sinker 57 Samoan 2 Mrs. 40 Duck 53 Broadway port 
Charles 45 Low cart show 58 Rainbow 3 Mimic 48 Bulletin 54 Waters or 59 Zola novel 4 Kick 50 Ship's deck Kennedy 60 Collar 5 Rapier 51 Excuse 55 Swing loosely 61 Tear violently 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
7H€t?e'511 'f65-PWNP WOttiiiN fl:f({}5~ 7H€ :777?6€1
HELLO? 
f'KIININ& H£1( 1/Zf/U!A~ Wt'IIRIN& II P/1/ff

9//? 
OF ~/Nf()(Jp &l(ceN

\ 
HOTP/WT5.// 

\ F.Niir;Rhf'AlfY11 
Calvin and Hobbes 

F/?IJM/1 TII5Te 
PEK~E.CT!VC, 
/ 
Bill Watterson 
S\-\E'S G<J\ A. RfA\. AACI<E\ Ga\1'\G, OOt.s~'l 
s~t. ~ 


"No, wait! That's not Uncle Floyd! Who is that? ... Crimony, I think it's just an air bubble!" 


---~----------------------------­
Sports

page 16 Wednesday, March 2, 1988 
Grace, Alumni 6-0 in IH hockey play 
By TIM SULLIVAN the team has stayed right on track for a fourth consecutive
Sports Writer 
trip to the finals. 

For three years Interhall "I think we and 0-C are the hockey has been dominated by favorites," said Grace captain one team, Grace. The tower Mark Galis, assuming that 0-C team has taken three consecu­would beat Morrissey. "We tive championships and has played them ( 0-C J in the first looked unbeatable in doing so. game of the season, but things 
And, so far, this season has are a lot different now.'' been no different, as Grace has Grace has been led all season cruised to a perfect 6-0 record by two big scorers (sophomore in the Gold Large Dorm Divi­forward Erik Galis and junior sion and enters the playoffs as defenseman Steve Bishop) and the odds-on favorite. a solid goaltender in sopho­
Grace will be joined in the more Gary Davis. playoffs by Blue Small Dorm Alumni is also 6-0, but the Division Champion, Alumni, Dogs seem to be lacking the and Blue Division runner-up, respect that Grace's continual Cavanaugh. The fourth and dominance has earned. Led by final playoff spot was decided a high-powered first line of late last night, when Morrissey Mike Flynn, Steve Kalten­and Off-Campus did battle to mark, and Steve Vairo and a claim second-place in the Gold consistent, strong defense, the Division. 0-C won, 6-0. Dogs have rolled through the 
The final week of the regular Blue Division in an impressive season proved to be a chance fashion. for the playoff bound teams to "I haven't seen Grace or 0-C tune their games on lesser op­play yet," said Alumni captain ponents. Grace, Alumni, and Mike Brach, "but I know we Cavanaugh each won by more could beat either of them. I than six goals and were able to don't think anybody should look play all of their players. past us." The Observer I Rob Regovich Grace's season hasn't been a Alumni only helped their con-
Sandy Botham (52) puts up a shot In the paint previews tonight's women's basketball game vs. complete runaway -there have see ALUMNI, page 14
earlier this year against Dayton. Theresa Kelly Illinois-Chicago below. been close games --but, overall, 
Irish women look to vent frustration vs. Illinois/Chicago 
By THERESA KELLY McGraw and the Irish were line to try to tie the score, but the always optimistic McGraw can center on a tournament, Sports Writer left more than a little unhappy the attempt fell short. still has hope. the Irish first have to deal with after Sunday's loss to the "We are still upset about the "We only lost four games in the Flames, the Northern Illi­
Notre Dame has a team on a DePaul Blue Demons. This loss," McGraw said. "The January and February and nois Huskies, and a rematch mission. The Irish women's week is almost a vacation for seniors (playing their last they were all to ranked teams," with the Dayton Flyers, all on basketball will travel to the the Irish after playing, and home game) were still a little she said. "We're not in the the road. University of Illinois-Chicago mostly winning, through a bit depressed. driver's seat anymore, but you "We're going to win big.to take on the Flames and take rigorous February schedule. never know what the other They're not a real good team,"the monkey off their backs. "We took Monday off," "We're going to take our teams will do. Maybe if we win McGraw said honestly of the 
"It's going to be ugly, real McGraw said. "We just haven't frustrations out against UI-C. the next three big, we'll look UI-C Flames. "We don't want ugly," said Irish head coach had a break lately. Tuesday we We need a huge win to forget good to the committee." to play down to their level. We Muffet McGraw. worked on a few things, but about DePaul." want to get a lot of players in 
The Flames can definitely be mostly we talked about The DePaul game was an im­The losses were against Ten­the game and have a good time. called hapless. Currently DePaul." portant one, and that one game nessee, Virginia, and in two We think it will be a fun game."sporting a 2-23 record, they may have made the difference tough battles with DePaul. At 18-7, the team on a mission have lost five in a row to the The Irish lost a heartbreaker in the Irish post-season McGraw says the selection can take one more step in the Irish including last season's 90-to the Demons on Sunday 69-68 prospectives. Although the committee has to look at the quest for a 20 win season with 53 Notre Dame victory. on basket with nine seconds to NCAA tournament is basically toughness of the schedule. a victory tonight over the Why the mission, then? go. The Irish made it to the foul out of the question for the Irish, But before anyone's thoughts Flames. 
Spring cleaning takes Items to the mailbox 
Right around this time every year my mom 
decides to dig deep into closets and drawers in the 
name of spring cleaning. It provides for a time of 
reminiscing, but little productive cleaning. 
Maybe it runs in the family, but let's take this 
time of NCAA speculation to avoid the issue all­
together and take a look through the mail which 
has accumulated throughout the school year from 
across the campus, the nation, and indeed the world 
as we know it. 

Dear Brian, I bought this hankie back in October i!'l Minneapoli~ and it was real fun for a while, yel­lmg and wavmg around for a week. But now it's sort of like the Rubiks Cube, it's just no fun anymore. What can I do with it.? 
Dear Twins' Fan 

How about lending it to a Minnesota North Stars 
fan to cry in? Hey, maybe they'd get out of the NHL 
cellar if they played in the HomerDome. Dear Brian, I'm starting my post-Olympic diet. What do you recommend I eat? Dear Debi Thomas, Stay away from home-made clam chowder. You never know when you're going to get one of those small bones caught in your throat...and choke. Dear Brian, What are you doing for Spring Break? Dear Coach Phelps, I'm staying here to work for the NCAA Tournament. I'll let you know what hap­pens. Dear Brian, WE'RE SO EXCITED ABOUT THE 
UPCOMING  BOOKSTORE  BASKETBALL  
TOURNAMENT. ARE  YOU  COVERING  IT  
AGAIN?  

Dear Screaming Midgets From Hell, Good luck against David Rivers and Tim Brown in the Bookstore Basketball Hall-of-Fame game. They might have a height and quickness advantage, but good thing for you offensive goaltending is legal. 

medal in Olympic figure skating. Or was it the sil­; ver?
Brian 

Dear Dave, Sorry, wrong Brian. This one is still trying to figure out if curling is really a sport or
O'Gara 

just a method of taking a Hoover vacuum to ice. Dear Brian, We're taking a collection because we're
Irish Items 

trying to be fiscally responsible and we're in need of some quick cash to support a few new teams. 
Dear Brian, I'v~ got a problem. My scope just turned me down on television while millions were watching Saturday night. I even offered her my own gold medal, but she had to go out and win her own. Everyone thinks I'm a studmuffin, and I get rejected bigtime. Help! 
Dear Alberto Tomba, Look, congratulations on your gold medal run in the slalom in Calgary, but I'm no Dear Abby. Why would you want to give up a gold medal anyway, even for Katerina Witt? Sure she's beautiful, but I think she's got the eye for me. Sorry, Alberto. Dear Brian, A 6-3 sophomore from Cincinnati told me Joe Fredrick is going pro next year. Is it true? Dear Jimmy, It seems there is another sophomore guard who wears number three who thinks so. Ac­cording to Kentucky's Rex Chapman, whose praises Joe has sung in the past, "I definitely think Joe will join David Rivers in the starting backcourt on the 
U.S. Olympic team." Dear Brian, Congratulations on winning the gold 
How about a donation? 
Dear Notre Dame Athletic Department 
Maybe you can sell all the field hockey sticks you decided not to use. 
Dear Brian, You no-good Cardinals' lover. You're scum. I hate you and everything you write. Dear Mets' fan, I didn't realize Opening Day was so soon. Dear Brian, Since when did you think you could write? Do you work for sports or for comedy? I gave up lunch on Wednesday's just because you're on the back page. Get a life. Dear Mom, I thought I asked you never to write to me at the office. 





