Just plain bitter 
. '· t. 
IACCENT: Sportin' an NO grad
~.II. 
Snow becoming light Tuesday mor­ning. High 10 to 15. Clear and bit· 
u.. 
terly cold Tuesday night Low zero 
to 5 below. Mostly sunny and not

IVIEWPOINT: AIDS and the -University
//J'i 
as cold Wednesda .
,,,._­



VOL XXI, NO. 76 TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Reagan: union still 'strong' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan said Monday night in his final State of the Union mes­sage that the United States was "strong, prosperous, at peace," and he asked Congress to help make his last year in office "the best of eight." 
"I don't buy the idea that this is the last year of anything," Reagan said. 
The president said he has a full agenda for his final months in power: keeping the economy strong, maintaining peace, at­tacking social problems, par­ticularly in education, and promoting the spread of democracy worldwide. 


Stevenson on alcohol 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame basketball for­ward Mark Stevenson was ar­rested Sunday morning on charges of minor consumption of alcohol by St. Joseph County Police, according to John Heis­ler, Notre Dame assistant sports information director. 
Heisler indicated that no ac­tion had been taken against Stevenson by either Irish head coach Digger Phelps or the Athletic Department. Atheletic Director Dick Rosenthal was out of town Monday and was not scheduled to return until late that night. 
Stevenson, 20, also was ar­
rested Dec. 13 at University 
Park Mall on preliminary 
charges of theft by deception 
Without specifying a figure, Reagan urged Congress to ap­prove more aid for the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. He also called on the Senate to ratify the recently signed agreement with the Soviet Union to abolish intermediate-range nuclear weapons. 
Reagan chastised Congress for its often-chaotic budget process of passing budget bills after deadlines have passed and combining all federal spending in catch-all legisla­tion. 
"Congress shouldn't send an­other one of these," he said. "And if you do, I will not sign it. 

arrested charges 
and plead innocent to a charge of criminal conversion at a hearing Dec. 28. Stevenson will face trial on that charge April 8. 
On Sunday, Stevenson was stopped at about 2:30a.m. after he pulled into North Village Mall too fast and didn't not pull over for an initial police cruiser, according to a report on WNDU-TV. 
A second cruiser pulled him over. A breathalizer test given at the county jail showed Stevenson to be just under the legal limit, the report said. 
Minor consumption of alco­hol is a Class C misdemeanor. 
Stevenson, who is averaging 
11.5 points per game for the 11-4 Irish, practiced with the team Monday afternoon. 



SMC Prof pleads 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR Staff Reporter 
Not guilty of criminal trespassing was the plea of St. Mary's mathematics pro­fessor Peter Smith and four others in St. Joseph County Superior court Monday. 
The five, members of a group calling itself Pledge of Resistance, must wait until February 1, to be assigned a court date, according to a representative of the county prosecutor's office. 
The charge stems from the group's Christmas Eve sit-in held in 3rd District Congressman John Hiler's office to protest U.S. support of the Contra Rebels in Nicaragua. 
The protest began Dec. 23 at 3 p.m. when Smith and four others gathered peace­fully in Hiler's office and refused to leave until they felt assured that Hiler was aware of the severity of the group's intentions, or until they were forced to leave, Smith said. 
We were "resisting with our bodies as a means of showing our dedication" to the cause of saving the people of Nicaragua, said Smith. 
At approximately 2 p.m. on December 24, after a night of reading statements to Reg Wagle, Hiler's dis­trict director, the group was arrested and charged with trespassing, he said. 
Hiler, who was not present for the sit-in, eventually made plans to speak with members of the Pledge of Resistance group to discuss the affair. 


not guilty 
In a press statement released January 20, the Pledge of Resistance stated that the five would plead not guilty because they believe the Reagan administration "is in violation of interna~ tiona! law as defined in the Nuremburg Principles." 
Criminal trespassing, a class A misdemeanor, carries a maximum penalty of up to a $5,000 fine and!or up to one year in jail. 
Smith, a long time peace activist, has been arrested twice previously in similar situations. In 1985, he was arrested along with 30 other Pledge of Resistance mem­bers for staging a similar protest of Hiler's support of Contra aid. The group pleaded not guilty at the 1985 
see PROTEST, page 4 


$246 million raised in Notre Dame drive 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
The "Notre Dame: A Strate­gic Moment" fundraising cam­paign has raised $246 million towards a goal of $300 million, but some of the campaign goals are far from being fully realized, according to Joseph Sandman, director of develop­ment. 
"Even though we are close to the goal, we have some key campaign goals that are not near funding," he said. 
Only 29 percent of the $10 mil­lion goal for the Memorial Li­brary has been attained. Sandman said, adding the money would be used to buy new books and expand current collections. 
Also, only 42 percent of the $60 million endowment for un­dergraduate scholarships has been raised, and a mere 22 per­cent of the planned $27 million fund for graduate fellowships has been attained, Sandman said. 
Still, a large number of the campaign's objectives have been met. "We've come a long way," he said. 
Campaign goals for profes­sorships and buildings are "virtually funded," he said. 
Facilities that have been funded through the campaign are two new women's dorms, Knott and Siegfried halls, the Friemann Life Sciences Build­ing, the Loftus All-Sports Cen­ter, the Eck Tennis Pavilion and a new classroom building that construction has yet to 
see FUND, page 4 

-~----------­
Tuesday, Janua~26, 1988

page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
Hundreds in Dallas rallied to show support for their police department after an officer was fatally shot Satur­day when bystanders goaded on his assailant. Dallas police were still trying to identify bystanders who shouted ''Shoot him, shoot him" to a mentally ill man who grabbed the officer's gun in a struggle. The man fatally shofthe officer in the face. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs may be submitted at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until2 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free, campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine which items it will publish. -The Observer 
Acts for the BCAF talent show must be reported today to the coordinators. Call Tracy Lowery or Agnes Peterson at 4072 or Carla Morris at 4380. -The Observer 
Rodrigo Atria will speak on "Opposition Journalism under the Chilean Dictatorship" today at noon in 131 Decio. 
-The Observer 
The philosophy club pizza dinner will be today from 4:30 to 6:30p.m. in the basement of Grace. All are invited. -The Observer 
Constitutional interpretation will be tackled in a joint speech by the Hon. Daniel Manion, U.S. Circuit Judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals, and Sotirios Barber, Notre Dame professor of government and international studies. Manion and Barber will speak at Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's on Wednesday, Jan. 27 at 7 p.m. -The Ob­server 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will have a meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Stanford 24-hour lounge. -The Observer 
Overnight homeless shelter volunteers will have an organizational meeting tonight for sign-ups. At Saint Mary's sign-ups will be at 6:30 p.m. in the gameroom of Haggar College Center. The Notre Dame sign-up will be at 8:15 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. At that time, volunteer dates will be selected. -The Observer 
The Hoorays will play tonight at Theodore's at 9 p.m. The concert is sponsored by the Overseas Development Network. -The Observer 
Juniors interested in reading at the JPW Mass should come to Sacred Heart Church on Wednesday at 4 p.m. Anyone interested in helping write the communion medi­tation for the Mass should contact Helen at 4416 or Nancy at 2764. -The Observer 
The Bagpipe club will hold an organizational meeting Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFor­tune Student Center. No experience is necessary and the club is open to any students or faculty. For more infor­mation, contact Paul Harren at 3475. -The Observer 
Project Head Start will have a meeting Wednesday from 6:30 to 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns for all those interested in teaching 4-year old pre-schoolers basic skills. The program takes place from 8 to 10:45 a.m. on Tuesdays and I or Thursday mornings. Transportation is provided. -The Observer 
--.L-=:Y=-'-'
---Ih--e-Obse.---~~r----­

Design Editor ... . ...... Matt Breslin Accent Layout.. .... ........ Kathleen Moran Design Assistant . . . Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Brian Conway Typesetter•........................ Micheal Buc Viewpoint Layout Richelle Aschenbrenner .................................. Becky Gunderman Typists............................ Lynsey Strand News Editor ......................... Chris Julka .......................................... Wendy Burek Copy Editor ..... Matt Crowley ND Day Editors ......... David Lee Sports Copy Editor.. .. . Theresa Kelly Photographer... .. .... Mike Moran Accent Copy Editor .............. Lisa Young 
De at.ner (USPS ~99 2...wo0) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam aDd vacation periods. ne Obeerwer is published by the students of the Univcniry of Notre Dame aDd Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2.5 per semester) by writing De at.ener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~~6. 
ne at.ener is a member of ne Aaodllled Preu. All reproduction rights are raerved. 
Our hearts forever, Superbowl or no 
Disappointed football fans of the other 26 NFL 
teams will dutifully sit down this Sunday to Sandywatch the consolation game of the 
season ... the Super Bowl. Cerimele Super Bowl Sunday has become an American 
tradition for sports fans and non-sports fans 
Saint Mary's Editor
alike. The event begins a week before kickoff, 
with obnoxious prognosticators telling the 
public that the game will be the greatest battle 
since the Trojan war. 
Deep inside, they know it will be a blow-out, 
but it is blasphemous to attack an America in­
stitution. They predict a close, high-scoring 
game with lots of action. 
The hype continues throughout the week on 
the lucky Super Bowl network, ESPN and in • 

the towns from where the two teams hail. 
We hear what each player has had for break­
fast on Game Day, and the quarterbacks of both 
teams will undoubtedly end up arm wrestling 
in some Coke commercial, making snide com­
ments about the outcome of the game. 
Everyone's attention is on the big game even 
if their team is out. 
So what about the other guys? Isn't it about 
time there was a real match-up of some greener porch lights were lit to "burn 'em for Bernie." 
teams to the Super Bowl field? I was awakened every morning to my mother's 
A Super Bowl that featured the Minnesota exhuberent chorus of "Here Come the Browns." 
Vikings and the Cleveland Browns would be a My aunt wore Dawg tags all week, my brother 
much better game. gave up talking for barking, my mom called 
off work and took a nerve pill before the game 
Being from Ohio, I have been raised with the and even my grandmother, who frequently asks 
Cleveland Browns. Ever since I could say what inning it is, was screaming "Come on, "touchdown," the Browns have been the only 
DEFENSE!" team in football. And all for what? ... to be teased all the way That's what happens when parents brainwash back into the Dawg house by those nasty their children ... they lose touch with reality. 
Broncos. How could they do that to us? They But in football, fans are not part of the real did it last year, they'll do it again if they can. world. But the beauty of Browns fans and other fans 
From the days of the "Kardiac Kids" and a who are faced with similar annual devastation disappointing loss to the Oakland Raiders in 
is loyalty. 1981 to last Sunday's bitter second-time loss to the nasty Denver Broncos, we have suffered. Ask any Browns fan if he or she has thrown 
We suffer because it is the same scenario in the towel on the team. Ask Vikings fans if every year. The Browns have a good season, they care about the Super Bowl now that their they take first place in the ever-threatening team and city had the same taste of glory 

AFC central division and the town prepares for snatched away last Sunday. Not a chance. playoff domination, never considering the fact Sure, we will all watch the Notre Dame bas­that the team might lose. ketball game and get dragged into the circus 
This year was no different. of pregame hoopla. We'll drink beer, eat nachos 
and cheer for these teams with a hint of bitter-
The Cleveland Plain Dealer printed banners ness that has turned into apathy. We'll even sit and Dawg masks to be hung and worn in public through the hideous half-time spectacular. during the week, and victory songs were on But our hearts will be with our teams: the every radio station within a hundred mile Browns, the Saints, the Vikings, the Oilers, and radius of the city. maybe the 49ers. Once again, but with no less 

In my hometown, Youngstown, home of enthusiasm, "Maybe next year." Bernie Kosar, the Cleveland quarterback, Go Redskins. 
~-·r::·-------------·---THE KNIGHTS I 

1 /">,'( ~--,

LEARN 
We are only I 
minutes from campus.

CPR, 
We now have a brand new I 
MALE DEPARTMENT



PLEASE. 

BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE.~
Toke o lilesovtng Red Cross CPR course. 

Haircuts are $6 with this coupon. 1
+American Red Cross 
277-1691



------' 
'

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE YEAR 
PART II A GUIDANCE PROGRAM by 
EMIL T. HOFMAN DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES 
in the ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 26 6:30 P.M., 8:00 P.M. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28 6:30 P.M., 8:00 P.M. 
(All four programs will be the same. !:very freshman should plan to_ attend one.) 




FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 

Tuesday, Janua~26, 1988 page 3
The Observer 
Student financial aid to be subject to taxation 
By MATT GALLAGHER Staff Reporter 
Scholarships and grants for room and board are now sub­ject to taxation, says account­ing Professor Kenneth Milani. 
According to Milani, stu­dents are now obliged to pay federal taxes on any aid they receive for room and board and travel allowances as a result of the Federal Tax Reform Act of 1986. This includes any aid received on or after Aug. 16, 1986. 
The new law does not extend to aid paying student fees, books, supplies, and tuition, ac­cording to Milani. 
"If the grant is covering tui­tion, fees, books, supplies, or equipment--no problem. It's not taxable," said Milani. He also said that a student could no longer claim himself as a personal exemption if his or her parents already claim the stu­dent. 
"It's a double whammy. Room and board is $3,000 in in­come, plus (students) cannot claim themselves as exemp­tions," said Milani. 
Milani said that an average student who gets $3,000 for room and board will wind up with an extra $460 in taxable income, after taking the stan­dard deduction of $2,540, which is tax free. Furthermore, any earnings from a summer job will also be taxed, since the stu­dent has already taken the standard deduction, according to Milani. What this means to a student who receives $3,000 in room and board aid and earns $2,000 in a full-time sum­mer job is an additional $384 in taxes paid to the federal gov­ernment. 
Milani also pointed out that this figure does not include any state or local taxes, which might take an even larger chunk of the student's income. When Social Security and other deductions are added in, Milani mentioned, this can amount to 25 to 30 percent of the student's income. 
"We have to ask if this is equitable," Milani said. "If someone is on a full ride, we're talking about someone who has pretty strained financial re­sources. Now we're taking away 25 percent or 30 percent of his summer income." 
Kathy Keener-Han, a finan­cial aid counselor in the Office of Financial Aid who is respon­sible for educating Notre Dame students about the effects of the new tax laws, stated that a let­ter was mailed in Dec., 1987 to all students who probably would be affected by the new law. 
Enclosed in this mailing was a worksheet which helped people to estimate the impact of the new law on individual cases. 
Keener-Han also has planned several workshops next month (the exact dates and times to be determined) to help stu­dents assess the influence of the new laws. She also said that Milani would be instructing students in the affects of these new laws; these students would subsequently be available to help others with their tax returns. 
Student Senate passes redistricting resolution 
By GREG LUCAS Copy Editor 
With student elections on the horizon, the Student Senate worked feverishly Monday night to resolve the jurisdiction problems that will result in the next few years from the numerous changes planned on campus. 
In order to accomodate the addition of two new women's dorms, Knott and Siegfried, the Senate passed a proposal alter­ing current senate districts. 
The resolution, proposed by Senator Mike Carrigan, retains the five districts, increasing the constituencies in all but two of them. It places both Knott and Siegfried in district 2, moves Stanford and Keenan form district 2 to district 1, St. Edwards from district 1 to 2, and Carrol from district 1 to 3. 
MEXICAN RESTAURANT£  
DAILY DRINK SPECIALS  
MONDAY 75 c DRAFT Featuring: Michelob & Miller Lite TUESDAY MARGARITA VILLE $].00 off all Jumbo Margaritas only $].95 75 c shots of Cuervo Gold A Jumbo & a shot for only $2.50 WEDNESDAY HOT SHOT SCHNAPPS NIGHT 75 c shots of "Hot Tropical Schnapps" $].50 Sunburns & Suntans THURSDAY CORONA NIGHT cross the Border for only $].25 a bottle FRIDAY Molson & Moosehead 2 Canadian favorites for only $1.00 a bottle SATURDAY Our Top Shelf Golden Margarita made with Cuervo Gold & Cointreau $1.00 off -Only $2.95 SUNDAY Pitchers of our famous Margaritas for only $4.90  

Under this resolution, Dis­trict 4 and the off-campus dis­trict will remain the same. 
The proposal passed by a vote of 12 to one over a rival bill mandating the creation of seven districts. 
The seven-district proposal was presented by Senator Sean Hoffman, who argued that the addition of two senators would provide for more congruent districts and promote in­creased student participation in government. 
A preliminary vote indicated that the five-district proposal was favored over the seven­district one by a count of eight to five. 12 votes were required to pass either proposal. 
Senate members generally agreed that some resolution had to be passed before the meetings for next year's inter­ested senatorial candidates begin. 
"If no resolution is passed, then Knott and Seigfried will 


~~!~~~~~,~.~~~-~.~~!,~.?.~~~ tf 
Large 1 Br. Apts., Efficiency Apts., Hotel Rooms, Heated Pool, Air Conditioning, Heat, Color TV, AM-FM Radio, Barbecue Pit, Parking, Laundry Room, 3 Short Blocks to Beach, 20 min. from Ft. Lauderdale Airport, and close to Galleria Shopping Mall, Gourmet Restaurants, Ocean World, Atlantis Six Flags Water Theme Park, Tennis Courts, Golf and many more Attractions. FREE HBO 
Hotel Efficiency 1BR 2BR/2Bath 12/14-116 $45 $55 $65 $105 1/7-2/7 41 48 57 90 218-4/30 58 68 78 125 5/1-12/13 24 29 35 55 
800-247-2506 (US & CAN.) FL Call Collect: 305-566-1432 555 Antioch Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33304 
be left unrepresented," Car­rigan said. 
The simpler five-district pro­posal passed in a subsequent vote, where four of the mem­bers who had supported Hof­fman's proposal voted for Car­rigan's resolution in order to assure the representation of the two new dorms. 
Carrigan argued that Hof­fman's proposal to tighten and unify the senate districts would not justify the loss of Senator credibility that would accom­pany reducing the number of constituents. "The district is only as big as you let it be," he said. 
Carrigan also questioned why the seven-district system would leave the off-campus dis­trict with approximately 500 more students than the other districts. 
"I think if we're going to change the number of the senators you have to look at the effects it will have on this body (Senate)," said Steve Wenc, senator. 

sign-ups held 
Tuesday, January 26 and Wednesday, January 27 

Sponsored by SUB 
6:00 pm -9:00 pm at the Information Desk first floor LaFortune 
$100 deposit required at that time no lines before 5:00 pm 

Tuesday, January 26, 1988 

a e 4 The Observer 
support of the university trus­
tees, then reached the "general 
constituency" through events 

Fund 
Bayh admits he used pot
continued from page 1 
on campus and in cities 
begin on, according to Sandman. 
The campaign, begun in May 1987, will continue until Dec. 31, 1990, he said. 
A wide spectrum of fundrais­ing activities have been used in the campaign, Sandman said. 
"We try to be as personal in our approach," he added. Notre Dame first secured the 




A &trate8ic Moment Update 
at a glance 

82% $246 million (out of projected $300 million) 



lund 

$2.9 million (out of projected $10 million) 

lund 


$25.2 million (out of projected $60million) 

Graduate lund 

$5.9 million (out of projected $27 million) 



Pudgy man bilked 
women  of  
Associated Press  
SAN  FRANCISCO  -Short,  

pudgy and balding, Lee Sawaya was an unlikely Casanova. 
So investigators are puzzled how the middle-aged man with droopy "puppy eyes" allegedly charmed scores of women and bilked them for millions of dol­lars in phony investment deals. 
Detectives unraveling the coast-to-coast caper allege Sawaya spent his adult life as a devious "Prince Charming" who may have swindled as many as 1,000 victims before he was arrested Jan. 11 at a San Francisco restaurant while 
dining with his wife of three
days, a woman he proposed to the day they met. 
"He was not that attractive. He was short and overweight,
but he had a way about him," said Sawaya's wife, "Sarah," 



Protest 
continued from page 1 
arraignment but never went to court because the charges were dropped weeks before the trial. In addition, Smith said he was arrested in the early 1970's demonstration in Washington D.C., protesting the U.S. pres­ence in Vietnam. 
Despite his arrests, Smith said that his job as professor at St. Mary's College is in no way jeopardized. 
He said that this most recent demonstration was worthwhile because ''people need to be con­scious of the conflict in Nicaragua," and this arrest and exposure "got things in the news." 
Asked if he would participate in other similar demonstra­tions, Smith replied that the Pledge of Resistance already has tentative plans to hold an­other protest next week to ex­press dissent with further pro­posed U.S aid to the Contras and that he would participate. 
throughout the nation, Sandman said. 
The programs are designed to inform people about the cam­paign and to ask for a commit­ment to the drive, he said. 
The campaign also uses per­sonal visits to the campus, tele­phone solicitations and letter campaigns in the fundraising, he said. 

millions 
who asked that her real name not be used. The 47-year-old Marin County real estate bro­ker had never married when she met the man introduced as Franklin Rossi and married him Jan. 8 after a whirlwind courtship. 


CORP 
The scam might never have unraveled had it not been for a friend who showed Sarah's wedding picture to a party guest who recognized Sawaya as the man who earlier romanced and cheated her, Police Det. Gary Jiminez said. 

..._lllllii!WIIIifi.~Wiiiiii-...iiaii.~---iiii•IIAAIIIIiilllilll.__.. 
One of the nation's largest 
• .c t 1 ·e s 
uni.orm ren a com~an1 
Will be hOSting a StUilent Open hOUSe for a}l StUdentS in Management-Marketing. 

The open house will be on January 26th at the Morris Inn in the Alumni Room from 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Secretary of State Evan Bayh admitted Monday that he smoked mari­juana once when he was an 18­year-old college student, but considered that experiment "a mistake that I regret." 
The 32-year-old Bayh, a can­didate for the 1988 Democratic nomination for governor, said he tried a substance he believed was marijuana in 1974, when he was a student at Indiana University in Bloomington. 
"I tried it. I didn't like it. I never tried it again,'' said Bayh at a hastily called news confer­ence in his Statehouse office. "It was a mistake that I made when I was 18." 
Bayh said he decided to make the admission after he was asked by a reporter over the weekend if he had tried mari­juana. Bayh said he answered the question truthfully and decided to make his response known to all the media and the public. 
"I think it is important to be 
Annual Winterfest set to begin 
By LISA MONTPETIT said Smith Hashagen, vice In other news, Hashagen an­News Staff president for student affairs. nounced that the Keenan 
Thursday's events will in­Revue Party will be held in 
The Saint Mary's Program­clude outdoor activities and are Haggar immediately following ming Board announced its final still being discussed, she said. the production. A disc jockeyplans Monday night for the 2nd A Winterfest hotline is avail­and food will be provided. Annual Winterfest to be held able at 284-5231 for students She also introduced Rozel Feb.1-5. who have any questions re­Gatmaitan as the junior class 
Activities begin Monday garding the weeks events, said vice president to replace Anne night with "Willie Wonka and Cahill. Palamaro. the Chocolate Factory" which ~t•••••••••lltl.!wwwwwwwwwwwo,'"h
will be shown at 9 p.m. in Car­roll Hall. Tickets will be sold 
at the door for 50 cents,  said  
Mary  Carol Cahill.  
Tuesday  will  feature  free  

tubing at Bendix Woods from 8 to 11 p.m., she said, adding that there will also be buses running every 40 minutes. A schedule will be posted in LeMans Hall. 
"Buses will also be provided on Wednesday night for stu­dents who wish to participate in bowling at Beacon Bowl," open and honest even if it is embarrassing," said Bayh. 
He said he hoped "a mistake made when I was 18 is someth­ing people can understand." 
Bayh said that he told his fa­ther, former three-term U.S. Sen. Birch Bayh, about the in­cident and "he said he under­stood." 
Bayh said he used marijuana in a social setting with friends, but never used it again after the one experiment. 
"I submitted to peer pres­sure in a moment of weakness, and I regret it," said Bayh. "It (marijuana use) is not a part of my life." 
State Republican Chairman Gordon Durnil, one of Bayh's most persistent critics, said he was surprised by the announce­ment. He said he had reports Bayh had tried marijuana, but claimed "that is the type of in­formation you wouldn't use" in a campaign. 
He predicted the announce­ment could call Bayh's judg­ment into question in the minds of Hoosier voters. 
"I think people want a little 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY TOM PICHETTE 
"Now you can legally demand 
your rights" 

From: Mom, Dad Spot, Craig 

11111111111011111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


STUDE'S LOUNGE 
Corner of Ironwood and Mishawaka Ave. 
Cordially Invites ND & SMC To Join Us: 
WICKED WEDNESDAY: 
Frozen of Regular Long Island Ice Teas $2.50 
24 oz Draft Beers Domestic Canned Beers Imported Canned Beers All Shots 

THURSDAY: 
Any Shot 24 oz Draft Beers 
FREE SNACKS MUSIC-DJ-BEST IN TOWN TOP 40 DANCE MUSIC 

NO COVER 
Across the street from 7-11 Food Mart 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
better judgment than that in a top official like a governor," said Durnil. 
Durnil pointed to a recent In­dianapolis Star survey that showed almost half of Hoosiers questioned said they would be less likely to vote for someone who had used marijuana. 
"According to that survey, it doesn't play very well with people in Indiana," said Dur­nil. 
The survey showed that 46.34 percent of the 800 people polled in early January said they would be less likely to vote for someone who admitted smoking marijuana. Another 
47.9 percent said such a revela­tion would make no difference in voting decisions. 
Nationally, about 27 percent of people polled say they would be less likely to vote for some­one who admitted marijuana use. 
Bayh is opposed for the Dem­ocratic nomination by former Kokomo Mayor Stephen Daily, who was campaigning Monday and couldn't be reached for comment. 
$J.OO 
$J.OO $J.75 $J.OO 
$1.00 $J.OO 







Accent
Tuesday, Janua~ 26, 1988 page 5 

NO alumnus 'sports' Fake Flynn foils foreign frolic
broadcasting skills 
E
verybody has these bizarre ideas about what happens to people who study abroad. My grandmother, for CHRISTINE GREGORY Hemingway style : short important thing. because there instance, thought that I would come back as Errol Flynn or 
declarative sentences to ex­are so many people, is to fill a something. ali debonair and worldly-wise. Wrong. I only press yourself. It's the most need when you go to apply for came back with the knowledge of how anti-Errol Flynn I 
&Jitor's note : Don Criqui, valuable, practical thing I ever a job, as opposed to having a am and will always be. Notre Dame alumnus and NBC learned at Notre Dame: how to resume saying. "I can learn Stili other people think you'll return hating America, with sports broadcaster, returned to write and consequently how to this" and 'Til do anything to your hair dyed purple and your nipple pierced. Maybe Notre Dame to cover the Notre communicate on the air. learn that." That's not good some people do. Nobody I know did. Dame-Kansas basketball game. How else do you think Notre enough because they want Or people assume that you'll come back with all these This Is the first in a two-part Dame prepared you for your somebody that can help them witty anecdotes which will somehow encapsulate the whole interview. career--not just In terms of now. What you can do Is find experience of way off-campus life. 
skills used In a specific fleld the need for that station or that I offer the following witty anecdote as proof that I did non Criqui came to Notre but In terms of developing publication and then you can not turn into Errol Flynn. It is a story that almost could l..IDame In the fall of 1958 yourself and your thinking go in with a game plan of how have happened In Bridget's. It really did happen In from Kenmore, N.Y. While here, process? you can help them. In other London. The names have been ignored to protect the he majored in communication The greatness of a university words, your point of attack embarrassed. arts and spent much of his Isn't the courses. It's the asso­when you're being interviewed I always felt kind of lost In the nightclubs in London. time at WSND, delivering sports ciation with bright motivated should be, "What I can do for broadcasts. (This was before people. That's where the real you if you hire me?" Kevin Walsh 
accent writer 


Behind the Screen Door ~ '-· ·~ 
Toto, I don't think we're in Theodore's anymore. 
Maybe it was the lager, but more likely it was the atmosphere. Green, red and blue laser lights flash through the smoke in sync with the skull-numbing thump of the latest Euro neo-disco junk. Two gigantic soft sculptures of a male and a female acrobat hang high over the dance floor in the dark. Both are nauseatingly over-exaggerated, very fat and very naked. 
Blondes in black slink by. They are tali and tan and perfectly content in their ignorance of my existence. One perches on the edge of a couch next to an empty space, alone. 
I'm thinking. "Hey, I'm In London now and It's about time 1 turned on my Errol Flynn act to bag some European babes." 
Very suavely, I sit down next to her. Once seated next to this vision, ali that my mind comes up with are cliches. "You know, you lookjust like a really good friend of mine. Can I buy you a drink?" "What's a nice dame like you doing in a crummy joint 
like this? Can I buy you a drink?" "What's your sign? Can you buy me a drink?" While I'm rummaging through this verbal K-Mart. the 
' 
"lady" next to me taps me on the shoulder. THIS, I'm thinking. is my big chance. Sexy European accent here I come. She says in her sexy European accent. "Urn, someone is already sitting there... " "Yes?" I say, trying to smile mysteriously and wondering if she really is a member of Bananarama. 
Don Criqul announces news and sports at WSND as a Notre Dame student in 1962. Criqul Is now a sports broadcaster with NBC. WVFI came into being.) After value of going to college Is. I How would you describe your graduation, he served in the Air wasn't a great student but I responsibilities as a play-by· Force Reserve and worked at think I got as much out of col­play announcer? several stations, developing his lege as anybody could. If Notre It's pretty basic to identify; skills as a play-by-play announ­Dame exports anything from you make the whole broadcast cer. Among these stations were that campus with the students, flow. You set up an analyst WSBT South Bend and WCBS its integrity--which is the most who talks about the "why" New York. Since 1979, he has valuable human attribute there that's happening. You also been part of the WNBC New is when you get out in the have to be very informed so York staff ~here he broadcasts world. you can tell your audience on both television and radio. Let's talk about what you're things they haven't heard 
doing now. Do you remember before about teams they have 
How would you characterize when and why you first got watched a lot. And it has to do Notre Dame while you were interested in sports broadcast· with the style of presenting it. there? (1958-1962) ing? How do you get that lnfor· 
I think it was a pretty austere I don't know any specific rea­mation, those Insights that environment. I think that's why son why. I was always inter­people haven't heard before? It is a bad turn of events. Errol Flynn might call it an people from Notre Dame tend ested in broadcasting and Talking to them: talking to unmitigated disaster. Why do I care what Errol Flynn would to be successful. To go people who did games, from people that are Involved In the say? He was a homosexual Nazi spy, wasn't he? through four years of what It sometime when I was very games, talking to people who Instead, I try to salvage at least common decency by was like, you had to be a pretty young. Just based on a boy's play these teams, just a variety saying something devastatingly witty. My mind churns and disciplined person. I think it interest in sports I guess. You of sources from which you all I come up with is ... pays off in the long run. The know, I really didn't think I build up a network of informa­"Oh." more you're away from It the could get into the business. I tion and you bring it all to­I try to take my time and compose myself. I drink deeply more you see the uniqueness figured it was too hard. gether. For every hour you're from the pint of bitter that I just paid way too much of it. How does someone go about on the air, there's many, many money for. The world looks distorted and strange through 
You were a communication getting Into the business more hours preparation in the fisheyed bottom of a pint of bitter. arts major. What sort of curric­today, considering It's so com­broadcasting. The goddess next to me taps my shoulder again as I ulum did that Involve? petitive? stand up. Perhaps she is realizing the error of her ways, 
It involved various aspects of The hardest part about get­In the second part of this think. writing and broadcasting. ting into broadcasting is get­interview, Criqui discusses The sexy European accent again, " ... and, urn, your There were some tremendous ting the first job. Once you get working with ex-athletes and zipper is down." Neat. professors who taught how to it if you're good, the rest kind other Notre Dame graduates What an amazing and exciting place to live. write. They taught a basic of takes care of itself and then now working in the broadcast­Now I will stumble back into the anonymity of the crowd, writing style--almost like a you can move up. The most ing field. just as I did that night. 
' 
i 
I 
-T-ue-sd-a-y.-J-an_u_a~--26-.-1-98-8----------------------------------------------------------------------~-----i--~----~------~-:j-, 
The responsibility AIDS: a question 
of AIDS education The only 'vaccine' 
available is education 
Ignorance is not bliss. 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, for the most part, is sadly unaware of how to deal with the threat of AIDS. It is time for students, faculty, and administrators to acknowledge the problem and begin to deal with it effectively. 
AIDS is not a disease that affects only homosexuals and I.V. drug users. Recent statistics show that there has been a rise in AIDS and AIDS-related cases in the general public, including children, parents, and college students. 
Our community cannot plead ignorance to the threat of AIDS. This ignorance has already contributed to the spread of AIDS and AIDS hysteria. 
The solution for ignorance is education. 
The administration must provide information about preventing AIDS. The Student Health Centers at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer literature regard­ing responsible measures for safety. Awareness, however, should not be limited to the Student Health Centers. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's should also increase community awareness of the disease and its implica­tions by implementing educational programs. Such programs could include mandatory physical education classes, dorm discussions, student mailers, and desig­nated counseling sessions. 
With that information, members of this community will be better able to make competent decisions about their actions and prevent the spread of AIDS. 
A university's mission is to educate. In this it must not fail. Our community cannot afford to put itself at risk because of ignorance. To do so would be deadly. 

-The Observer 
On a weekly basis The Observer will select an issue that is of interest to the community. In order to present various views on the issue, columns will be solicited from members of the school community. An invitation is also ex­tended to members of the Administration. In addition to these contributions, The Observer will also comment on the issue. 
The Observer welcomes letters to the Editor concerning the opinions presented on these and other issues. The Observer, however, reserves the right to edit all letters, and the shorter the letter the better chance it has for publication. You may address the letters to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
For many people, the mention of the word AIDS results in reactions like: "I'm not a homosexual or IV drug abuser, so I'm not at risk." "I'm tired of hearing about AIDS... I don't want to hear anymore." 
Carol Seager 
guest column 

However, in steadily increasing numbers, we are coming to realize that AIDS is a deadly disease about which we must all be concerned. Al­though the high risk groups continue to be homosexual and!or bisexual males and IV drug abusers, recent statistics are showing a leveling off of the cases of AIDS in homosexual and!or bisexual males and an in­crease in the heterosexual popula­tion and IV drug abusers. 
Each of us, as individuals, has a responsibility to know the facts as­sociated with this deadly disease and to act in a manner which reduces and!or eliminates the potential of be­coming infected with or transmitting the AIDS virus. 
Recognizing and dealing objec­tively with AIDS and the threat it poses is extremely difficult. To do so forces us to address, simultaneously, the concepts of death and sexuality. AIDS is a disease with intense moral and physical implications. 
One of the most effective ways of controlling the emotional responses to AIDS and reducing the panic which can result is to know the facts. Currently education is the only "vac­cine" available for AIDS. The Uni­versity is very sensitive to this need for information. Consequently, stu­dents can have their ques­tions/concerns about AIDS ad­dressed through a variety of methods: 
University Health Services has available a large variety of written materials. These materials are available in the lobby along with other health care information. Since these materials were first made available, they have been used in far greater numbers by the students than any of the other pamphletS/brochures. 
Within each dormitory, the rector has been asked to display a poster which contains the national HOT­LINE telephone number for AIDS (1­800-342-AIDS). By calling the num­ber, a student can in a very personal and anonymous manner, ask ques­tions and express concerns. 
The St. Joseph County Health De­partment is a source for information, couseling, and testing. Accessing their services can be done by calling (284-9781) or visiting their clinic (9th floor, County-City Building). 
Within the South Bend community is a Community Action Group whose purpose is to provide support and in­formation to those individuals dealing with the AIDS issue. 
The University has sponsored a campus-wide seminar which in­cluded presentations by couselors, 
physicians,  clergy,  and  AIDS  
patients.  
Counseling  is  available  through  

the customary campus sources--the Counseling Center, Campus Mini­stry, Rectors, other clergy, etc. 
In addition, we are currently ex­ploring the feasibility of bringing AIDS education into dorms and, pos­sibly, the classrooms. 
Like Notre Dame, colleges and universities across the country are frustrated by the difficulty in getting AIDS information to students. Public meetings (campus wide) are not well attended. Apparently, for a signifi­cant number of students, there is a fear of being seen at an AIDS meeting. Written materials, though effective, may often go unread. It is becoming increasingly apparent that the most effective methods of communication are those which either insure anonymity (HOTLINE, individual couseling) or where dis­cussions can be held in smaller, less threatening groups (dorms, clas­srooms). 
The University's commitment to AIDS education is, in part, the result of actions taken early in 1986 when an interdisciplinary committee was formed to draft a policy. The efforts of that committee resulted in the drafting and, subsequent, endorse­ment of the University's AIDS Guideline which has been in effect since August of 1986. The guideline, which applies to the entire campus community, emphasizes that each case of AIDS must be handled on an individual basis and that all deci­sions/action must be based on medi­cal and scientfic facts. 
As individuals we each have a re­sponsibility to seek out the facts about AIDS and conduct ourselves in a manner wich reduces or eliminates the risk of contracting and spreading this devastating dis­ease. Simultaneously, the University has a responsibility to assist in the dissemination of information on AIDS and to respond both compas­sionately and objectively when con­fronted with the AIDS on the Notre Dame campus. 
Carol Seager is the Director of Uni­versity Health Services. 




Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther Institution The News is reported as accurately and objectively as poss1ble. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ................................... Kevin Becker Bus.ness Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ........................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor... ............Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor... . ............. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke 
Viewpoint Editor ................................Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark McLaughlin Sports Editor . . ......... Denms Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor . . . . . . . . ........... Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor... Sandy Cenmele Graphic Ms Manager ...................... Laura Stanton 
Photo Editor.. ....... Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1966 



oint 
page 6-7 

of awareness and action 

Doonesbury 
MR. f'&Af)ft£fj[ .47 lH& PR£5/­fJtNT'S ALTeR £60, You'RE IN A UNIQU& P051TION 7VCA5T liGHT ON MR. 8181'5 ROlE 
TH& "7( •.uv...-,_... 
•

A call for caring and compassion 
It is impossible to read a newspa­per, listen to the radio or watch tele­vision and not be bombarded with the international tragedy that is AIDS. What began as a medical con­undrum a scant seven years ago has escalated to pandemic proportions. The uncertainty which surrounds this phenomenon has bred fear and panic. It is conceivable that as many as 1.5 million Americans may be in­fected with the AIDS virus. Since 1981, when AIDS was first reported in the United States, the Public Health Service and the Centers for Disease Control have reported over 40,000 cases of AIDS, of which over 20,000 have resulted in death. 

Kevin Worth 

guest column 
My own involvement with AIDS dated back to 1982. As vice president of Covenant House, an international crisis care facility for homeless and abandoned youth, founded by Father Bruce Ritter in New York, I was con­cerned with a population that was clearly and tragically at risk. The homeless street youth we served faced a double-barreled death sentence--many were intravenus drug users, and many were sexually active. While AIDS had not made sig­nificant inroads into our population at Covenant House by the time I resigned in 1985 to enter the Congre­gation of Holy Cross to begin studies for the priesthood, I had become deeply involved as a volunteer with AIDS patients. 
Since joining the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1985, I have remained involved in the lives of PWAs-­"Persons with AIDS"--and their families. I have had to face the star­tling fact that this disease is simply not going away. Rather to the con­trary, it is clear that few of us will escape the tragic experience of knowing AIDS firsthand--either in the lives of immediate family or of close friends. What will we do when the unthinkable occurs, and we are forced to confront AIDS--not in the media, but in our own lives? As Christians, what must we do? 
Even if we are fortunate enough to escape a personal experience of AIDS, each of us has a civic and re­ligious responsibility to be informed, to be caring and to be compas­sionate. As Christians, we follow Jesus Christ, who devoted a substan­tial portion of his public ministry to the poor and marginalized. Jesus told us, "Whatsoever you do to the least of my brothers and sisters you do to me" (Matthew 24:40). In the faces of AIDS victims, we must see the face of Christ. 
<;{){)-{)-{)()I! 
...f)(}f;5N'TMeAN I'M MR. HWtiY! Jl5f8!5CAIJ5t 
CAPABL.E Of8&TRAY­I OBJECT' I'M M7T lJ(X)Nf) 
/NG lH&lOYAI..7Y fY= 70 TH/5 8YTH&~M/3 
7HI51HeM05T liN& OF Pt&fJG/3 OF 
RJlOFMR. o<::n<•nur: INCXJIRY.' 
I 

Saint Mary's College and the Uni­versity of Notre Dame enjoy a proud tradition of preparing Catholic men and women, as well as those of other faiths, for positions of leadership in the arts, education, government, re­ligion and the sciences. We have a unique opportunity then, as we ven­ture outside this campus, to bring with us that tradition of compassion and that thirst for justice that is part of the Gospel and is also part of the charism of the pioneer Holy Cross sisters, brothers and priests, and their associates, who started these institutions we enjoy today. Nowhere is the cry for justice and compassion greater in our day than for Persons With AIDS. 

"In the faces of AIDS victims we must see the face of Christ." 
The time I spend with AIDS folk and their families are moments of special grace, and I have learned much. When I was asked to prepare this essay, I telephoned a friend in New York, himself in the throes of late-stage AIDS. "Tell them that we're dying, and that we're scared," my friend said. "Tell them that we need to be loved--a lot." 
I share here my experience with AIDS patients and their families so that others might cope with this tragedy when they face it--please God you will never have to. But if you do confront AIDS in family, among friends or in the workplace, perhaps you might remember my friend's words, and my experiences. 
Aids is and equal opportunity dis­ease. While often attributed to gay_ men, the virus infects men and wo­men, black or white, heterosexual or homosexual. 
Persons with AIDS are persons. As children of God, they have a right to expect our love and concern. 
Persons with AIDS fear that they will eventually die. Those faced with terminal illness experience stages denial, anger, "bargaining," depres­sion, acceptance and hope. Our task is to support the Person With AIDS in these various phases, even when behavior seems irrational or bizarre. 
Persons With Aids need spirituality in their lives. I have grown in my own faith by working with AIDS patients and their families. Sharing our spirituality means sharing the strength of our own faith and allows the loving, healing hand of God to be better known. 
Persons With AIDS need our care and our compassion. The Gospel challenges us to do nothing less. 
Kevin Worth is a seminarian in the Congregation of Holy Cross and a graduate student in the Mastery of Divinity Program at the University of Notre Dame. He is a member of the Community Action Group (GAG), a voluntary organization of South Bend professionals concerned about AIDS. 

P.O. Box Q 
Spring Break help to continue 
Dear Editor: 

As many of you know, the Alumni Association has traveled with the students to Florida for Spring Break during the last few years. In the past we have provided a number of ser­vices that included complimentary long distance phone calls, Coca-Cola products, newspapers and a student locator file as well as reserved bas­ketball courts and trips to spring training baseball games. 
We have again been asked by Stu­dent Government to continue these programs this year, and it is our hope that we will be able to continue to provide these services-­unfortunately a problem has arisen. During the last few years resorts out­side of Florida have grown in popularity. So much so that it is now impossible to gauge where our ser­vices would be most effective. 
We need your help. Please call our office (ND-239-6000; SM0284-4578) or stop by (201 Admin.; 110 Lemans) and let us know what your plans are for spring break. 
Jeanne Martin Director, Alumnae Relations Saint Mary's College 
Charles F. Lennon, Jr. 
Executive Director 
Alumni Association 
University of Notre Dame 
January 22, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"It is in ourselves that we fi­
nally experience the mystery 
of God." 
T. Guzie 


Tuesday, Janua~26, 1988 

page 8 The Observer 
Joyner-Kersee honored as Female Athlete of 1987, Sports Briefs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Track and field 

star Jackie Joyner-Kersee, As­
sociated Press Female Athlete 
of the Year for 1987, is familiar 
with the great career of Babe 
Didrickson Zaharias, with 
whom she is compared. 
"I saw her story on TV," 

Joyner-Kersee said. "She in­
spired me. 
"It was touching to see her 

(high) jump ... into sawdust. 
And to watch her play golf and 
tennis. 
"Her being a woman, and 

being so dedicated in what she 
wanted to do was inspiring." 
Joyner-Kersee, the world record-holder in the heptath­lon, co-world record holder in the long jump and a former basketball star at UCLA, is considered the finest all­. around woman athlete in the 
world today. 
It was a title that belonged 

to Zaharias for more than two 
decades, including 1932, when, competing in track, she won two Olympic gold medals and one silver and was chosen AP's Female Athlete of the Year. 
This year, Joyner-Kersee, 25, will try and match the Babe's two Olympic golds in the Seoul Games -in the heptathlon and long jump. 
In balloting by a nationwide panel of 244 sports writers and broadcasters, she received 128 first-place votes, 68 seconds and 16 thirds and a total of 880 points, with points alloted on a 5-3-1 basis. 
West German Steffi Graf, the world's top-ranked woman ten­nis player and winner of 75 of 77 matches, including the French Open, finished second in the balloting with 806 points. She had 108 firsts, 82 seconds and 20 thirds. 
Third was another tenpis player, Martina Navratilova, the 1983 and 1986 Female Ath­lete of the Year. Navratilova, the only player to beat Graf in 1987 -in the Wimbledon and U.S. 
DennisGrace,NotreDame'ssoccercoach, has been appointed to the adidas Soccer Advi­sory Board. The board was instituted three years ago for the purpose of promoting soccer and consists of the most successful and respected soccer personalities in the world. As a member of the board, Grace will conduct clinics, test products and represent adidas at special events. -The Observer 
Late Night Olympics entries are due today. See your dorm reps for details. -The Ob­server 
Advanced conditioning classes will be offered to all students from Feb. 1 to March 12. The sessions will be on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday afternoons from 5-6 p.m. in the Loftus Sports Facility. A physical ex­amination is recommended. -The Observer 
BookstoreBasketballxvncommission applications can be picked up at the secretaries desk on the second floor LaFortune. Any soph­omore interested in the position should turn in an application today. Interviews will be con­ducted from January 27-29. Any questions, call Steve Wenc at 271-0573. -The Observer 
Any freshman interested in becoming a student manager should attend an organiza­tional meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC auditorium. Call the managers' office at 239­6482 after 2:30p.m. weekdays if you have any questions. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in forming a women's lacrosse team call Heidi at 3778. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for SMC intramural basketball. Call5548 for more information. -The Observer 
Squash players interested in playing in the Mutual Benefit Companies 1988 Chicago Squash OpeQ from Feb. 5-8, please contact Allan Lim at 3211. -The Observer 
TheRacquetballClubwill be organizing spring leagues. Please call Dave (1425) or Mark (1422) before Friday, Jan. 29, to sign up. All levels of players are welcome. -The Observer 
A Gymnastics Invitational will be held at SMC Saturday, Jan. 30, at 1 p.m. Prac­tice for club members is mandatory for the week. Monday's practice is at 4:30p.m., Tues­day through Friday practices are from 4-6 p.m. 
-The Observer 
Tile a...-Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, -=cepts classified 8dwatlelng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 'I'M a...-s.1nt Mwy's office, located on the third floor of Hllgg.-Collge Center, -=cepts claslfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day claslfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda must
Classifieds be pnlplid, either In pen10n or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five char.:tens parday. 
NOTICES 

MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 1 0·5:30 
TYPING SERVICE 259-2334 

TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 2n­7406 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 

SEND YOUR VALENTINE SOME HAND-DIPPED CHOCOLATES DELIVERED TO YOUR DESIRED DORM. CALL 287·6073 FOR DETAILS. 

' LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT­ING GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I REALLY NEEDIIII 
LOST: PAIR OF PRESCRIP. BROWN­RIMMED GLASSES IN TAN HARD­BACKED CASE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 4559 OR 2698. 
Help we lost our favorite scarfs! One red plaid wool scarf was lost December 16 in the Huddle. The other was a maroon and grey plaid scarf lost January 12 be· tween the JACC and Cushing. If you have any information regarding their whereabouts please call us at £3433 
LOST: PEARL RING, SET IN GOLD--lost the Friday before Break in the vincinity of the Circle and Alumni Hall. If found call 284-4141. RING IS OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE AND A REWARD IS OFFERED. 
MISSING. I am missing a dark grey Wil­derness Experience backpack from the South Dining Hall at lunch on wednesday, Jan,20. It was chock·full-o' books and other neat stuff very dear to me. If found, being reunited with it would be just dandy. call Chris £4294 
LOST: GREY AND YELLOW OBER­MEYER SKI JACKET CONTAINING BROWN WALLET IF FOUND CALL TRENT AT 1462 
ELVIS TAPE FOUND ON FRI. OUTSIDE SO. DINING HALL. CALL 232-4907 TO CLAIM THE KING'S TUNES. 
LOST ITALIAN GOLD NECKLACE SOMETIME SATURDAY ON NORTH QUAD OR THE ACC .PLEASE CALL AMY AT 2948 IF FOUND! 
LOST: FRIDAY NIGHT AT SENIOR BAR One long charcoal grey overcoat was picked up lrom the coat room at Senior Bar on Friday nite Please return to Kevin at 343 Dillon Hall or call X3609. I'm even offering a reward. No questions asked. I really need the coat since it is the only one 1·-<JWn. I"M FREEZING!!! HELP!!! 
LOST: NO woman's class ring. If found please call 283·1363. 
FOUND (1125) Gold ring in Madeleva­room 224. Call -4284 
.......................................•.......................,_ 

FOR RENT 
Partially furnished ranch 3 bedrooms -2 baths washer-dryer-oven-stove­refrigerator-softner great neibourhood, off Angela blvd. ideal for 3 students call 232·3616 
OFURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288­09551 255-3684 
Apartment in NO Apts. Looking for female to share expenses with 3 others until May. Call Cathi at 3n3. 
Roommate needed-3 blocks from campus $125¢utils. Call 288-2642 

WANTED 
HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $15,000-$88,000. Call (602) 838-8885, Ex1. 6262. 
Babysltters needed to work per your sch. lor delightful 2 t2 yr. girl. Need own transp & like cats. $2.50 plus hr. 287-3315. 
CANDIDATES FOR SKI SCHOOL AND SKI PATROL, CONTACT SWISS VAL­LEY FOR APPLICATION (816) 244­5835. 
SUMMER JOB INTERVIEWS: Average earnings $3,100. Gain valuable experi· ence in advertising, sales, and public re­lations selling yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame Telephone Directory. Travel Opportunities. Expense paid training program In Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal­oriented s1udents lor challenging, well-paying summer job. Sign up for Interviews with University Directories at Career & Placement Services, Lower Level Hesburgh Library by Jan­uary 29. 
Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. 
RIDE NEEDED TO IUBLOOMINGTON 1·29 CALL PETE 4340 
Female roommate needed for 1988·89. House on Hammond Place. For more details, call 283·4510 at any time. 
NEED RIDE TO PITT THIS WEEKEEND CALL JOE 3883 

FOR SALE 

For Sale, Smith Corona Typerwriter Call Don 271-0653 
PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS BADIN HALL IS SELL­ING IRISH PAINTER CAPS BADIN HALL IS SELLING IRISH PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS 

TICKETS 
I NEED ONE KEENAN REVUE TICKET for SATURDAY NIGHT. 
INXXS INXXS need 2 tix for chi town or any area show.plz call 2n-84 75.aft.8pm.thanx. 
NEED KEENAN REVUE TICKETS?? I have 2 for Saturday night and would like to trade for 2 Thursday night tickets. Call Robin at 2808. 
Help Sr see last Keenan Revue. Will trade b-ball tix, $, firstborn, or thanks for 1·2 tix. Call 2880, 201 Lyons 

PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Sell old texts for $$$. Pandoras -808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30. Also save $ on used books. 
DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA-ROUND TRIP,7 NIGHTS FROM $199 CALL CHRIS 3382 NOW! 
"OBTAINING A SUMMER INTERN­
SHIP" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES OFFICE. TONIGHT AT 6:30 p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL MAJORS ARE INVITED. 
"OBTAINING A SUMMER INTERN­
SHIP" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES OFFICE. TONIGHT AT 6:30 p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL MAJORS ARE INVITED. 
"OBTAINING A SUMMER INTERN­
SHIP" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES OFFICE. TONIGHT AT 6:30 p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL MAJORS ARE INVITED. 
"OBTAINING A SUMMER INTERN­
SHIP" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES OFFICE. TONIGHT AT 6:30 p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL MAJORS ARE INVITED. 
SHE"S GOT BETTY DAVIS EYES!! Ill 
SARAH "LAME DUCKESS" HAMIL· TON, THANK YOU FOR THE WONDERFUL COOKBOOK. SURPRISED TO SEE MY RECIPES IN IT. REMEMBER THE "DRUGS" ~~~ YOUR MAILBOX FOR THE DIP? LOVE, OLD WIFE 
KEENAN REVUE 
KEENAN REVUE 
The first name in campus entertainment 
is coming January 28,29,30. THE 
KEENAN REVUE. IS COMINGIIIIIIII 
PJH 
Here's your personal What are you going to do lor the coolest guy Gust ask Leanne)? Have a nice week. 
Mr. Sarcastic 
Hi CPA ZZll. Greetings from Hell It's nice here, and the Brut (by F.aberge) smells good Only 110 more days 
Your loving cellmate 
FEMALE AUDITIONS for Cavanaugh Hall's production of "The Best Man" a political farce by Gore Vidal, will be held in rm 118 Niewland on Mon­day, Jan.25 and Tuesday, Jan.26 at 7:30pm. No Experience Necessary 
Hi Heather! 
I NEED ONE KEENAN REVUE TICKET lor SATURDAY NIGHT. 
LOST : a NO gray scarf that my little sister gave me in South Oining Hall last week. Would greatly appreciate its return. Call John 1388 
Go Back to Sleep!! 
All people are born right-handed But only the best of us can over come ill Brought to you by the League of Left-handers 
Female looking for roommates to move off campus. Call Tina 4311. 
ATTN: ST. MARY'S STUDENTS Yogi's Yogurt will deliver on Tues. & Thurs. between 7 & 9 pm. Call 2n­4337 . .Chinese Pizza Men Here's your first ransom notice Be prepared to answer demands Or you won't see your little friend again 
All Nappers 
Speaking of Sports Speaking of Sports 
Give your prediction on the Super Bowl tonight on WVFI's sports talk show. Call 239-6400 between 10-11 p.m. to talk Super Bowl with host Rick Rietbrock and guest Chris Murphy. 
Speaking of Sports 
ATTENTION PEBBLE BEACH: BETSY ROSS went on a commando mis­sion and took the "flag." I'm sorry to disappoint you all, but per­haps I'll leave you something else some· lime. 
P.S. I have a bigger nose than you could ever imagine. 
Dear Michelle, Michele, and Molly-you are the best roommates I have ever had. Who else would put up with all my "weird" music?! These Sunday night shot parties are evil, but THEY WILL GO ON! Next time, let's all pass out on the same night, OK? Heart, Ann. 

PAINTER CAPS •••••••••••• PAINTER CAPS ............ BADIN IS SELLING PAINTER CAPS..BADIN IS SELLING PAINTER CAPS... TO BUY YOUR PAINTER CAPS, STOP BY 403 BADIN 
OR CALL 2728 ............ PAINTER CAPS 
RENEE I wish you weren't in Chicago. I'm really going to miss you. Come Back Soon. "Ho_nestly" STEVE 
JEFF BRINKER SHOULD EAT MORE VEGETABLES! 
JOHN MILLEA WITH WISDOM COMETH AGE. HAPPY 26TH AND COUNTING!!! BIG BOOMER BOTTOM 
ST. ED'S MOVIE NIGHT DIRTY DAN­CING Tuesday, Jan. 26 at 8:00 p.m. at St. Edward's Hall. 
ST. ED'S MOVIE NIGHT DIRTY DAN­CING Tuesday, Jan. 26 at 8:00 p.m. at St. Edward's Hall. 
ST. ED'S MOVIE NIGHT DIRTY DAN­CING Tuesday, Jan. 26 at 8:00 p.m. at St. Edward's Hall. 
JR. SKtFEST 88 II 
Alpo jerky bllaoLD. Is OMEGAmaw'l hate to think someone has an Inch on me.':t\Yho Is GRANNY SMITH and where did she go?VJC Mueller's NA5­TAR record1s Kaes up yat?/'1 think we'd better take 1hat plunger ou1 of there':t.!3 lnchas/J.G's 15yr. oldOUESTIONStJ.D.'s hour long rur>' LAPS' xrays&lan's counter leap..Oulgs hears what chicks really talk abouttrhe first bus romanc..M.K. strikes agaiMIIce nose Wilson. 
THE REUNION IS COMING II 
JUNIORSIIII Chicago trip this Wednesday! $11-slgn up In class office today! 
JUNIORS Ill CHICAGO Ill 
Kevin "SKIN NO WIN" McGowan has our vote for Hot Body '88. The Guys. 
This summer--CROCODILE DUNDEE II!!! G"Day, mate! 
S. Democrat-maven tho your politics are WRONG-I'd still like to know you better. RSVP if you like. -Greedy Republican x 1286 
When are we going to go OUT? 
To HRH: Need a new hairstlye? How about Newvo Messa? I know you're a geek, but if you could drag yourself away from this campus for a day, let's go to Chicago. This month. And let"s spend the night. Soon. Well, I hear the giant calling. Bye. 
happy birthday flash! love ya!-rita 
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. JMB 
Top Five Reasons To Eat at Macri's on Sunday Night: 5.The pepperocini will keep you young. 4.Big black boots are part of the dress code 
spurs preferred . 3.The riding crop IS optional. 2.You can kill the Hungarian waiter with a good breeze. 1."Can I see your I.D. again, sir? "Sorry, my girlfriend ate it. • The Three Stoogeteers 
Coke Is It 
NEED KEENAN REVUE TICKETS?? I have 2 for Saturday night and would like to trade for two Thursday night tick­ets. Call Robin at 2808. 
1) A PINK AND WHITE STRIPED SHIRT 
2) BLUE JEANS 
3) STRAIGHT BLACK HAIR DANCING AT THEODORE'S SATUR­DAY Are You the female described ? I was the D.J. and was scoplng you!! Come see me! I'll be the D.J. next SAT. 
Oh JIMMY JIMMY!! Oh JIMMY JIMMY! I If you're a lonely or desperate BIM Call JIMMY JIMMY 287-6831 Girls, HE'S BIMMIN, BOOZIN. AND BRAWLIN FOR YOU! 
Happy Birthday, Jesilyn! Love Nikki 
"Hey BAMBI do you know what today is?" "Gee THUMPER. I don"! know­Tuesday?" "No,its JESIL YN BARNES' 20th Birthday!!" "Well, what should we get her?" "I think this personal is more than enough." 
PADRE WARS Where will you be Friday? Hope your plane doesn't nip. 
HELP KAREN ROBINSON CELEBRATE HER BIRTHDAY BY SUPPORTING HER AND THE REST OF THE NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM WHILE THEY TAKE ON MARQUETTE TONIGHT AT 7:30 IN THE JACCI HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KAREN! 
Hey you sophomore skiers! Hope all of you (and Boyne Mt.) have recovered from the weekend. You'd better THINK (think!) about what you did to yourself. How about a few DR. PEPPERS for a QUARTER? We could hang from the CHANDELIER and CHASE it with a beer (or several). There's enough room for all ("the Lads" included), even if we have to sit on the table! Was anyone alive at Sunday break­fast? So what if it took some novices two hours to get down one run, at least they stopped at the bottom (with the aid of the fence). And then there were those who could really ski, "take that jump", "do those moguls"! But watch out for the lifts, "Happy Birthday to you Teresa". Oh, what a weekend it was! Same time next year??? 
To the girt in the bookstore Mon. 2:35 wearing yellow jacket: guy in brown over­coat would like to meet you! Call Bob 2oo7 
ANYONE going to (or passing through) YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO this weekend?" I need a ride and will share expenses. Call X1265 
LNO means LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS means LOTS OF FUN means HELPING SPECIAL OLYMPICS means YOU SHOULD BE THEREIII Friday, Jan. 29 9-4. please come... 
JB, If I bring you roses, will you give me tulips? AT 
Vicki, Meg, and Garrett, Thanks lor such a great weekend. You guys are the best! I hope we can have some more like that one soon. Love, Andrea 
What's so special about All? 

Tuesday, Janua~ 26, 1988 The Observer page 9 
Irish sharpshooter 
Kuhns bombs for three 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Lisa Kuhns makes the most of her opportunities. 
Kuhns, a junior guard on the Irish women's basketball team, has had some tough breaks and some lucky breaks, but throughout, she always makes the best of them. 
After starting swingman Diondra Toney went down with an injury at DePaul last week, Kuhns found herself starting for the Irish against Michigan State. She scored eight points and pulled down four rebounds, doing what the Irish want her to do -hit the long jumpers. 
Kuhns has shot 22 of 57 from three-point range this season, the only member of the Irish who has hit from afar. 
"Lisa gives us an added di­mension with her range," says Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "No one else on the team can shoot like she does. Just being on the floor, teams have to guard her, which ex­tends the defense." 
Those extended defenses open up the Irish inside scoring game, the team's strongest point. 
Kuhns says that when she is on the court, she looks to shoot from long range. 
"I'm aware of it (the three­point line)," she says. "I look for the long shot. That's what I'm out there for. I don't con­centrate on it so much that I screw myself up, but I look for it." 
Kuhns was averaging just under eight points in 15 minutes of playing time per game. With the starting job, she will be looking to the bucket even more. 

ll.IIIIIIIIIIIIIRIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
~ I 
iLATE NIGHT** 
I 




IOLYMPICS § 
== friday. Joroay 29, 1988 =
= 

~FRIDAY, JAN. 29 9J)la;:.. ~ 
i! CGntlct liM Moll ~lativo = ~ s,.-.ti By lloo-V"'ily llhlo~ 5 ~lt .... ll.w.,A~~~= 
i5TUESDA Y IS THE DEADLINE FOR SIGN-UPS 5 i§SEE YOUR HALL REP FOR DETAILS i = =
I=m~ ~~~~~~:flET~~~~~~:~,~~;::•~J I 
i ~w~~(~ug~fftl:IBA!L !~~~Jtn'i-!L g~~KST~ANT:lG i 
i5 NERI' FOOTIIAI.L INDOOR SOCCER RXJD i5 !! INNERTIJBEWATEKI'OLO OBSTACLECOURSE MUSIC 5 5 RACQIIETDAil. SINGUOS VOUEYBALI. AND MOREl :, : AKM WKESlUNG TAIJLETENNIS i5 
~ ADVANCE R~~~~~~~:J.~~~ ~~~'isYMPIC EVENTS ~. 5 SPONSORED BY NON-VARSITY ATIILET!CS ~ ~IIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
I --------------1111111!-•••S5o 
I I I I $50 Coupon for: I I Indoor Soccer I 
I Sign-up at I I South Bend Turners I 
I Ironwood at the Toll Rd. II* 8 game session starting NOW I 1* Weeknights 1 0 pm • ? t I * $50 deposit required per 15 1 1member team (total fee·$350) J 1*Late entries accepted. 1 I THIS COUPON EXPIRES FEB. 13 I 1 Call 277·0851 for more informatio1 
Indiana's First Built I
I $50 $50
I Indoor Soccer Arena I 
An injury forced Kuhns to sit out the entire 1986-87 season. She tripped over one of the wires strung across campus to keep people off the grass. But as she is apt to do, Kuhns made the best of the situation. 
"Sitting out definitely helped my play this year," says Kuhns. "I made the most of a bad experience. I learned a lot, and I think I gained experience just by watching." 
But nothing can take the place of playing, as Kuhns and the rest of the Irish will find out when they host Marquette tonight. 
"They (the Warriors) look pretty good," said Irish assis­tant coach Liz Feeley. "I'm sure they'll run on us, and they are scrappy on defense. 
"We don't want to look past them to Tennessee. They're a good team," Feeley said. "We're bigger and quicker, but they are still a real threat to us." 
The game begins at 7: 30 tonight in the Joyce ACC. 

The Observer I John Studebaker Junior Lisa Kuhns looks for the long bomb In her new starting assignment for the Irish. Kuhns has takem the place of Diondra Toney, who underwent arthroscopic surgery last week. 
Gelfman sets Irish tennis pairs 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team left last weekend's Gopher Doubles Invitational having found just what it was looking for -three set doubles pairs. 
Notre Dame competed in the tournament with Minnesota, Drake, Northwestern, Iowa and Southwest State in an event where finding set doubles teams for the regular season was more important than win­ning matches. Each doubles pair played seven matches during the three-day event. 
"The nice thing about this tournament is it wasn't geared toward finding a particular flight winner," said Notre Dame coach Michele Gelfman. "It was geared to switching doubles teams around if you had to, and setting your doubles teams." 
After switching her doubles teams after the tournament's first day, Gelfman liked what she saw the rest of the way. 
The tournament started with freshman Ce Ce Cahill paired with senior captain Michelle Dasso, sophomore Stephanie Tolstedt matched with class­mate Alice Lohrer and junior Natalie Illig paired with fresh­man Kim Pacella. 
On the second day, Gelfman kept the Cahill-Dasso team, but also formed Tolstedt-Pacella and Lohrer-Illig doubles pairs. 
"They were much more pro­ductive with the partners they played with the second and third days," said Gelfman. "I was extremely pleased with Pacella and Tolstedt. They worked really well together. 
"I think that Cahill and Dasso played extremely well. They lost to Minnesota and Northwestern. They played their two hardest matches the first day and after that they had no problem at all." 
When the Irish open their dual match season this weekend at Yale with Wake Forest and Brown, Cahill and Dasso will form the top-seeded doubles teams. Pacella­Tolstedt and Lohrer-Illig will be the other two doubles teams, with a challenge match on Wed­nesday determining which pair gets seeded second. 
This was Notre Dame's second consecutive ap­perarance in the Gopher Invi­tational, but Gelfman thought the Irish needed this pre­season doubles tourney more this year. 
"We felt it was more impor­tant this year because we had 

""'-·------·-------·-..-·----·--· changes in the lineup with and 
rl':d;!Uf.\JJ llill?) coJJnnillf!l 
Summer of '88 University of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Program Tuesday. January 26. 1988 242 O~haughnessy 
6:30 P.M. 
\LL ,.\RE WEL('OI\IE !!! 
l·--~··-··-,.._...._.,.._...._.,,_~.._..,_...,_....._...._..._,.._., __-_1 

If~~h~~rt~~~d w~re t~~m~~~
I back in the spring," said1 Gelfman. "Compared to where 1 we were in the fall, we're 300I percent better. We're more c_onfident wi!h our c~mbina­
tlons and with the different 1strategies we're using now." 
IIrish 
I continued from page 12 t 
200 freestyle and the 100 butter­

t 
I 
t
I 
fly. Amy Darlington won the 
200 butterfly and the 200 indi­
vidual medley. 
The men's team downed the Eagles, 155-113, and dominated the Friars, 131-80. 
Against the Golden Eagles, senior John Koselka led the Irish by winning the 100 frees­tyle and pacing the first-place 200 medley relay team of Brett Hunt, Bill Jackoboice and Jim Dowd. Jackoboice also turned in winning performances in the 200 freestyle and the 100 butter­fly. Brian Vogel captured firsts in the 100 and 200 breaststroke events. 
Freshman Brian Rini paced the Irish against the Friars, winning the 200 and 400 frees­tyle. Classmate Jim Byrne took the 200 individual medley and the 200 backstroke. 
The women travel to Illinois State Friday and both teams host St. Bonaventure Saturday. 



Tuesday, Janua~26, 1988

a e 10 The Observer 
Men's volleyball h.eats up '87 
It's been more than a month since this column last appeared as club sports teams enjoyed an ex­tended vacation. 
The action is beginning to heat up again, though, as two teams opened their winter seasons, and others made final preparations for the 1988 cam­paigns. 
The Mens' Volleyball Club now boasts a 3-0 record after winning three consecutive matches last week. The Irish downed Hope College Tuesday 15-6, 15-5, 15-3 and then came back to beat Grand Valley State Wednesday 15-7, 15-4, 1-15, 15-5. 
"We were supposed to win those games," Club President Keola Chun bluntly said. "There wasn't much to those games." 
The big test came Saturday against Toledo and the Irish responded with a 15-12, 16-14, 15-12 victory. That win left the squad in good shape after the first week of play. 
'We really played well," Chun said. "We had to come from behind several times. In the second game, we were down 14-11 and came back to win." 
"We're starting to come on strong," coach Bill Anderson added. "We're starting to put things to­gether, but we're still not where we want to be. Consistency is a big key for us. We can't afford any letdowns at all." 

Greg Guffey 

Club Corner 
The Irish are back in action Friday as they host a four-team tourney in the JACC. The Irish, the defending champions, play the University of Miami (Ohio) at 8 p.m. Michigan and Bowling Green open the tourney at 6 p.m. The consolation and final rounds begin at noon Saturday. 
"It should be a really good tourney," Chun said. "I think we have a pretty good chance to win it 
club action 
again, but we really don't know what the other teams have this year." 
The Women's Track Club competed in the Uni­versity of Illinois Invitational Saturday with cross country standouts Teresa Rice and Jenny Ledrick turning in stellar performances. Rice took third in the mile with a clocking of 5:02 followed by Ledrick in eighth with a time of 5:32. 
No other Irish runner broke into the top eight. 
"Teresa ran real well, and so did Jenny," Club President Maureen O'Leary said. "We have a lot of freshmen on the team, so it was a learning ex­perience. We're just getting used to the competition. You can't really say we're disappointed." 
The Irish travel to Windsor Saturday for the Can­Am Invitational. 
The Ski Club travels to Crystal Lake in Michigan Saturday, while the Gymnastics Club will host an invitational the same day. 
Irish youngsters star at TAC 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team competed in their second meet of the indoor season this past weekend in Bloomington, Indiana. At the TAC (The Ath­letics Congress) meet where there are no team scores, Notre Dame turned in several out­standing individual perfor­mances. 
Freshman Jeff Smith placed second in the long jump with a leap of 23 feet 11 112 inches. 
Pitt's Heyward will go pro 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -All-American running back Craig "Ironhead" Heyward said Monday that he would skip his last year at the University of Pittsburgh to play in the NFL next season. 
"I plan to petition the NFL," Heyward told Pittsburgh tele­vision stations Monday. 
"My reasons for doing that (are) being a father and com­ing from a family of eight -you know, a low-income family -so I think the decision that I'm 
Sullivan 
continued from page 12 
woman fencer and hopes to procure a spot on the 1988 Olympic team. 
Now the Irish set their sights to this weekend, when they will be thoroughly challenged by Wayne State University, one of their toughest opponents. They will be at Wayne State on Friday and then will travel to Dearborn, Michigan, where a meet with Chicago, Cleveland State, Detroit, Eastern Mic­higan and Tri-State will be held. 
KILLILEA OLDS NISSAN­.85 Buick Skylark 4 door Air Automatic stereo $4995 '83 NIIC Alliance DL 4 door Automatic air stereo $3995 '83 NIIC Eagle 4 wheel drive 2 door ve~ dean air auto­matic stereo 6 cylinder$3895 '83 Ford LTD 4 door air au­tomatic stereo $4295 '72 Buick Centurion Conver­
tible one owner 66,000 miles $1895 call Joe Sargent or Tim 
Berger 255-9644 
Classmate John Cole took first in the high jump with a jump of 6 feet 9 314 inches. Sophomore Yan Searcy raced to a first place finish in the 600 meters with a time of 1:22:00. 
Junior David Worth ap­parently had the 800 meters wrapped up with a 1:52: 45 but was disqualified for a lane violation. The mile relay team, comprised of Searcy, Worth, and freshmen Rob Harris and Richard Culp, placed first with a time of 3: 19:00. Their victory qualified them for the IC4A in­
Don'tcompete 
with a Kaplan student -beone. 
Why? Consider thiS: More students increase their scores after taking a Kaplan prep course than after taking anything else. 
Why? Kaplan's test-taking techniques and educational programs have 50 years of experience behind them. We know students. And we know what helps boost their confidence and scoring potential. 
So ifyou need preparation for the: LSAT, GMAT, MCAt GRE, OAT, ADVANCED 
MEDICAL BOARDS,TOEFL, NURSING BOARDS, NTE, CPA,INTRO. TO LAW, SPEED READING,or others, call us. 
Why be at a disadvantage? 

IKAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL aNTER LTD. 
1111 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN la6637 Phone 219/272-4135 
MCAT CLASS STARTS FEB. 6 
door championships to be held in March at Princeton Univer­sity. 
Over all Irish coach Joe Piane was pleased with the results of the meet, but he pointed out that the upcoming triangular meet with Michigan and Northwestern is an impor­tant meet for the team as a whole. "I'm really pumped about this meet. It's the first meet where the athletes are competing for the team as well as themselves. This meet will show our team character. " 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
COUNSELINE NOW IN OPERATION 
************* 
hours: 4 pm-12 midnig Mon-Thurs 239-7793 We still have 2 hour shifts to fill for Fridays. 
-Your want to help provide a valuable community service to NOOMC -You can spare just a couple of hours of easy volunteer work in a nice study environment (the number and manner of handling calls is rarely demanding) -Your could use something extra to look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask for Margie at the University Counseling Center or just leave a message. 239-7336 
going to make is the decision for me," Heyward told WPXI­TV. 
Heyward said he has not signed a contract with any agent, although he said he had met with agent Bruce Allen of Phoenix, and "a lot of other agents." 
Heyward said Pitt Coach Mike Gottfried did not know of his decision despite a meeting with him only hours earlier. 
"His decision was to per­suade me to come back and to finish the educational part of it and I had my mind made up I wanted to turn pro and he had a somewhat hesitant reaction to it," Heyward said. 
"I can't say I'm surprised, but I am disappointed," Got­tfried said immediately after Heyward's announcement. 

Tuesday, Janua~ 26, 1988 The Observer page 11 
The Daily Crossword
Campus . 
-· . 

rKOM II fOUf!C!IL ~K~F&cnve. eoe f/YX.e S/Mf(. Y CllN'T If, HIS CAKE fiN/7 MT IT, -roo  f}{e/(e .'!II WI(Y ftXtnCIU. IN.5/&HT /INC' [ Pl/JN'T MIX MY METI'If'HOR/ 17117 IT tnt£/ YOV'!{ 19f'PI(0Vflt. '?'/ \  NOT f?£1/UY. 1H£ fHI?AS£ IS IYI£11NfN6(.€(75. IF Y(}(J Hill£ Wt'lf? Cf/Ke, YOV CIIN 5T7U ef/T IT. IT'5 II ~lifl Ct.ICHe". f ~  



Calvin and Hobbes 
~.LOOK. WE.'VE T\\1S DUMB PRQ.IEU T~r..~l>u:v SO WE f'o\\GI{I f>.."S Will GIT II 
OVEQ. W\~. Wl1t-.1 ~ W£. su~ -m Bt. 00\NG? 
Bill Watterson 
Bt.L\EV£ IT, LADY. 
~00 ~O'N \1ClW EI~Sit.IN cYJT fW> ~l>tS f\S 
A KID? Will., 
NINE f>..Rt. EVt.t1 
WfJI(SE.' 

Embarrassing moments at gene parties 
: STUDENT UNION BOARD : i COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS i 
: are being accepted until Feb.l. They are available : : at the secretary's office, 2nd floor LaFortune. Call : : 239-7757 or stop by the S.U.B. office for more : : information. : • Available posttions: Board Manager, Campus •• Entertainment Commissioner, Special Events • : Commissioner, Movie Commissioner, Cultural Arts : : Commissioner, Services Commissioner, Musical : : Entertainment Commissioner, Ideas and Issues : •• Commissioner, Publicity Commissioner, Controller, and •• : Business Auditor. : 
..,..,_-+--+--+--+­
'1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AII Rights Reserved 
6 Open-

mouthed 7 Certain spies 8 Hoosegow 9 Clod 
10 Armadillo 11 Descended 12 Hoarfrost 13 Desideratum 18 "-you not" 
(Jack Paar) 19 Snare 24 Cruel people 25 Well-hidden 26 Church 
councils 27 -Zola 28 Imitate 29 God of war 
01/26/88 

30 Hawaiian 40 Doubter 53 Br. gun 
veranda 47 Coral ridge 54 Ceremonial 31 Hit of yore 48 George M. -act 32 Worsts 49 Nouveau -56 Cattle 35 Ms Barrett 50 Made of a 57 Discharge 36 Blackbird certain wood 58 Nerve network 39 "-and the 51 Sch. subj. 60 Gist 
River" (Wolfe) 52 And no more 81 Raw metal 
Far Side Gary Larson 

Tuesday 
12 p.m.: ·Brown Bag Seminar, "Opposition Journalism Under the Chilean Dic­
tatorship," by Rodrigo Atria, Kellogg Institute, 131 Decio. 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar with R.C. Armstrong, 
MIT, Room 303, Fitzpatrick Hall. 3:30p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Effects of Hyperlipidemia on the Biosynthetic Response to Stretching by Aortic Smooth Muscle Cells," by Dr. Joseph Grande, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, Room 356 Fitzpaatrick. 4 p.m.: Justice Education Film, "Wasn't That a Time! The Weavers," Stapleton 
Lounge. 
4:15 p.m.: English Department Lecture, "The Self-Mythography of Jenkyn Alysoun in Chaucer's Book of Wicked Wives, by Professor Jane Chance, Rice University, ETS Theatre, Center for Continuing Education. 6:30p.m.: Presentation, "Obtaining a Summer Internship," for all students, by Paul Reynold, Career and Placement Services, Room 124 Hayes-Healy Center. 7 p.m.: PresentationReception, CINTIS Corporation, for all Management, Mar­keting, and Arts and Letters seniors interested in sales or management, Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 7 p.m.: Mandatory orientation meeting, Big Brothers and Big Sisters, CSC·Multi­Purpose Room. 7 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series, "Brakhage Program," 55 minutes, Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.: Basketball, NDW vs. Marquette, Joyce ACC. 7:30p.m.: Anthropology Lecture, "Classical Antiquities: To Be or Not to be?" by Kelly Boll, ETS Theatre, Center for Continuing Education. 9 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series, "Cabiria," 1913, 70 minutes, by Giovanni Pastrone, Italy, Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Hearty Beef Vegetable Soup Italian Beef Sandwich Sweet & Sour Pork Roasted Turkey Fettucini Alfredo 
Comics _ 
Saint Mary's 
Fried Chicken Vegetable Quiche Beef & Vegetable Stir Fry Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Grandiose poetry 
5 Latin dance 10 Mountain pool 14 Encircled 15 Ancient 
marketplace 16 "It's a sin to 
tell-" 17 Very rarely 20 Stem 21 Tent need 22 Famous 23 Whitewashes 25 Dallas school 
letters 26 Did over 29 Ingested 30 Court stroke 33 Delete 34 Tropical 
parrots 37 Pub choice 38 Idle period 41 Once Clay 42 Painted 
surface 43 Horse stride 44 Wine word 45 Oolong e.g. 46 Pyle and 
Kovacs 48 This side of: 
pref. 49 Cowboy show 51 Chest 54 Inlet 55 Glacial ridge 59 Just before 
too late 62 Olive genus 63 Arthur's sire 64 Monogram 
part: abbr. 65 A Redgrave 66 Geoffrey of 
fashion 67 Whale 
DOWN 1 Swelled heads 2 Quart part 3 Whale 4 Star-shaped 5 Neander­
thal-

Bloom County Berke Breathed 


. .. Sports
page 12 Tuesday, Janua~ 26, 1988 
Irish swimmers beat Friars, split with Eagles 
Bonny qualifies for regional competition 
By GREG GUFFEY broke a three-game skid for the Sports Writer Irish women, and left Welsh 
pleased with both meets. 

It was a long journey for the "The win was wonderful," Irish swim teams to compete Welsh said. "It was good for against Boston College and the women to win convincingly. Providence last weekend, but Boston College won the Na­the trip was worth every long tional Catholic Meet earlier in mile to diver Andrea Bonny. the year and won it convincing­
Bonny highlighted the ly. We only lost by 16 points. I weekend for the Irish by qual­told the women that from the ifying for regional competition front to the back, it was their in one-meter diving. The senior best meet of the season.'' diver won the event Sunday Christine Moston paced the against Providence, tallying Irish against Boston College by 
423.95 points for 11 dives. Bonny winning the 100 butterfly and also qualified for the regionals swimming the first leg for the as a sophomore, and did not victorious 200 medley relay swim last year because she was team. She also turned in her in the London program. second-best time of the season 
"This is a big stepping stone in the 100 backstroke. Joining in collegiate diving," Irish Moston on the medley relay mentor Tim Welsh said of her team were Becky Wood, An­performance. "This marks the nette Quill and Tracy Johnson. complete return of Andrea Wood also won both the 100 and Bonny. She's with the elite in 200 breaststroke events. 
f!<l$$%' collegiate diving.'' Wood took the 100 and 200 
he Observer I David Fischer The women's squad downed breaststroke events again Sun­Boston College. The men won their meet over the the Friars, 152-98, but lost to day, while Jean Kelly won the Frairs and the Eagles. Boston College, 126-142 Satur­
day. The win against the Friars see IRISH, page 9 
Fencers whip opponents, extend winning streaks 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer Over the weekend, the unde­feated Notre Dame fencing team took its act to Madison, Wisconsin, where both the men and the women whipped five Midwestern Universities. Both the men's and women's teams were undefeated on Sat­urday, January 23, extending their winning streaks to 84 and 50 meets, respectively. The men's team, under the leadership of longtime coach Mike DeCicco, defeated Min­nesota (24-3), Purdue (25-2), Lawrence (25-2), Wisconsin  (19-8), and Chicago (24-3), for a perfect 5-0 record. DeCicco's overall record coaching the men is 511-40, for a .927 winning percentage. The women's team, guided by 1988 Olympic coach Yves Auriol, defeated Lawrence (16­0), Minnesota (14-2), Wisconsin (12-4) , and Purdue (15-1) , to make Auriol's overall record a perfect 50-0 coaching the wo­men's team over three years. Efforts by the men's team were highlighted by four unde­feated fencers in the sabre divi­sion. Junior captain Tim Collins and sophomore Dan Yu posted 8-0 records, while senior Jim  Reilly and freshman David Kirby turned in identical 7-0 records. The sabremen did this despite the absence of freshmman Leszek Nowosielski, who was in Canada, and classmate Chris Bauger, who was in New Jer­sey, as they were participating in Olympic trials. Nowosielski competed for a spot on the Canadian fencing team, while Bauger tried for a spot in the U.S. Junior Olympics. "I was pleasantly suprised at the convincing victories," said DeCicco. "It shows the depth of this squad, especially since  some of our best fencers did not compete." In the epee event, the Irish were able to overcome junior Todd Griffee's absence with an impeccable 10-0 performance by senior Doug Dudinski. "We needed someone to pick up the slack without Griffee on the trip," said DeCicco. "Dudinski had an outstanding. weekend. His improvement augurs well for the future suc­cess of this team." Senior Yehuda Kovacs led the way in the foil division, with a 9-1 record, improving his season record to 17-2. Sop­homores Joel Clark and Colin  Gumbs had excellent weekends, both posting 6-0 records. For the women, senior Molly Sullivan and sophomore Anne Barreda led the way. Barreda went 12-0 to raise her season record to a phenomenal 27-0, while Sullivan went 11-0 to raise her season record to an equally impressive 26-0. Barreda hopes to represent the United States in the World Junior Olympic Championships this spring at Notre Dame, while Sullivan is currently ranked fourth in the U.S. as a see SULLIVAN, page 10  
SMC  coach  let go;  
'procedure'  cited  
By JANE SHEA Saint Mary's Sports Editor  decision to rehire the coach is made then. In May, Nester decided to wait and see whe­ 
Saint Mary's varsity softball  ther or not to rehire Beisel.  
coach, Scott Beisel,  was  not  "After two violations in a row  
rehired for the 1988 season be­ in November and December,"  
cause  certain  administrative  said Nester, "the decision not  
procedures were not followed.  to rehire Beisel was made."  
Beisel  had  been  the  head  Beisel  met  with  Sr.  Karol  
coach of the softball team for  Jackowski, the Dean of Student  
the last 10 years. The decision  Affairs, and Dr. William Hick­ 
disappointed Beisel, but he did  ey, President of Saint Mary's,  
not want to expand upon the  who agreed with Nester's deci­ 
reasons behind the decision un­ sion.  
til after he had talked with his  "After playing for two years  
attorney.  I was disappointed about the  
"My job performance  and  decision, and I feel Scott is the  
administrative procedure has  greatest  coach,"  said  team  
not changed over the years,"  member Julie McNish.  
said  Beisel,  "and I  had  the  "Education  comes  first,".  
team's best interest as students  said Beisel, "and playing for  
first."  the team is part of education."  
Saint Mary's Athletic Direc­ "There are two criteria to  
tor  Dr.  Jo-Ann  Nester  said,  coaching," said Nester,  "the  
"Beisel  was  not  rehired  be­ ability to teach and to follow  
cause of the ongoing problem  administrative  and  
of not folowing administrative  departmental procedure."  
procedure and established de­ A new head coach has not yet  
partment policy."  been named. The search began  
According to Nester all var­ on Monday when an advertise­ 
sity coaches have one-year con­ ment was placed in the South  As usual, the Notre Dame fenci ng teams were several teams and scoring more wins for coaches  
tracts that expire in May. The  Bend  Tribune.  victorious on the road last wee kend, defeating Mike DeCicco and Yves Auriol.  

The Irish men's and women's swim teams returned yesterday from a successful eastern trip. The women beat Providence College, but lost to 






