/ACCENT: Alumni Association director IVIEWPOINT: Theological approaches 
Flftysomethlng  1;:::::::;>""7-,~-...rl~ ..r.v. /... '1. '  
Sunny and breezy today with highs in the mid 50s. Clear  )  -;...-­- 
tonight with lows of 35 to 40.  
Warmer Friday.  
~  


VOL. XXI, NO. 117 THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 1988 1 
j
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
1
Student reaction to task force reports j being compiled 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN government be where it hap­News Editor 
pens." Their plan to collect student 
Student reactions to the task responses includes: force reports are being chan­• Meeting with students in neled through student govern­each residence hall to discuss ment and will be given to Uni­"all aspects of each report." versity President Father Minutes would be taken at each Edward Malloy, according to meeting and compiled into a Tom Doyle, student body pres­report. ident. • Mailing a survey letter to all 
"I spoke briefly with Monk, students asking for written and he really wants student in­responses on any aspect of the put (on the reports)," said task force reports. These Doyle. responses would also be com­
piled into a report.
MORE TASK 
• Further advertising in The 
FORCE REPORTS Observer "so that the most rel­evant and clear responses
see pages 4-5 
received" can be published. 
The means of compiling stu­The hall meetings and stu­dent opinions will be discussed dent survey will be managed Friday in a meeting of the Hall by student government com­Presidents' Council, class mittees, said Doyle. The com­presidents, and Student mittees will be·coordinated by Senators. Melissa Smith, student govern­
Student government has ment executive coordinator. already "sat down and talked Committees will consist of stu­about a legitimate plan to col­dent government members, he lect response on these sensitive said. issues," said Doyle. Obtaining student response 
"It's essential th;it every stu­before final exams might be a dent have the chance to give problem, said Paese. "We're some input,'' said Student Body pressed for time, so unfortun-Vice President Mike Paese,
Junior Andy Stephens of Flanner contemplates pur­
"and it's essential that student 
chasing a bicycle at the Notre Dame Security auction see REPORTS, page 7 

$1.25 million grant to assist minority students at ND 
By SUSY PASQUINELLI admissions office," said Dean phases, said Hofman. The first special monitoring during the or engineering. They will par­News Staff Emil Hofman, director of the is a pre-freshman year sum-freshman year," said Hofman. ticipate in courses approved program. "The program is for mer program. Participants Participating students will for their upper division pro­Notre Dame has received a minority students who have come to Notre Dame for a six receive a special advisor un­gram." 
$1.25 million grant for the been accepted to Notre Dame week program before their derstanding and sympathetic 
Balfour-Hesburgh Program as incoming freshmen through freshman year. They take to the needs of a minority stu­A final part of the program 
designed to attract and assist the normal means, and who three formal courses in com-dent. includes a University 

minority students intending to have indicated science or munication, mathematics and major in mathematics, science engineering as their college quantitative reasoning. They or engineering. program." About fifteen stu-will also be offered a basic 
"Selection for participation dents will participate as learning skills program and en-is made from those students Balfour-Hesburgh Scholars. richment materials. who have been accepted by the The program has four basic "The second phase involves 

Threatening caller sentenced 
By GREG LUCAS The case originated in which were subpoenaed by Se­Copy Editor Bloomington where similar curity in January. calls had been made to Security originally arrested 
A South Bend man was sen­Bloomington residents and In­Jackley on Jan. 8 after question­tenced Monday to six months diana University students, said ing him about several com­in Monroe County Jail in con­Rakow. plaints received from female nection with a series of threat­According to Rakow, about students at Notre Dame, ening phone calls made to eight student victims from according to earlier state­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ments issued by Phil Johnson, students earlier in the year, came forward with evidence assistant director of Notre said Rex Rakow, director of earlier in the year. He added Dame Security. Notre Dame Security. that the investigation docu­Johnson said at the time that 
Donald Jackley, formerly of mented over 200 calls made all Security began investigating 4033 York Road, pleaded guilty over the country. the calls in October. Some­to one felony charge of in­Rakow said that Jackley was times the caller would phone timidation, Rakow said. The not charged with the calls the student's residence and tell Monroe County prosecutor made to Notre Dame and Saint the female student that he was dropped an additional charge Mary's students because it was holding one of her parents cap­of intimidation and two felony easier to trace calls to tive, according to Johnson. charges of crimminal confine­Bloomington from the ment, said Rakow. suspect's telephone records see THREATS, page 7 

A post-freshman year sum­mer program is the third phase. "This is for students who successfully complete the freshman year and indicate an intention to continue in science Headstart project,· which will bring select groups of minority high school students to the campus for the pre-freshman 
see MINORITY, page 5 

Dukakis looks to NYC; Bush meets opponents 
Associated Press Dukakis shunned any such 
talk, likening the race to a 
WISCONSIN -Michael 15-round boxing match that Dukakis basked in the glow will be decided by a decision, of his unexpectedly strong rather than a knockout. "My Wisconsin primary victory job is to go out now and do on Wednesday as he and his the very best I can in New Democratic presidential York and Pennsylvania and rivals pointed toward New Ohio, and those other veryYork. important primaries ... " he 
From campaign rival said as he campaigned in 
Jesse Jackson to party chair­New York City. man Paul Kirk, Dukakis There were political after­won accolades on his Wis­shocks on the Republican consin landslide. "It puts side of the race. Dukakis in the catbird Vice President George seat,'' said former party Bush, the certain nominee, chairman John White, a Jackson supporter. see RACE, page 7 

I 
I t 
f 
r 
r 
f 
I 
I 
t f 
I 
r '~ 
! ' 
! 
page 2 



Of Interest 
"Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out the Profile Form" is the title of a presentation to be given by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 7 in 123 Nieuwland Science. Juniors of all majors are strongly encouraged to attend. This talk will be repeated on April 11, 12, and 13. -The Observer 
A BBC film on the reported apparitions of the Blessed Virgin to six youngsters in the Yugoslavian village of Med­jugorje will be shown in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Library tonight at 8. The film will be presented by Richard (Digger) Phelps. He and three of his players--David Rivers, Scott Paddock and Joe Fredrick--will speak about their own experiences when they visited Medjugorje while playing basketball in Yugoslavia last summer. -The Ob­server 
"Human Rights Now," an Amnesty International demonstration for Human Rights, will be held today at 5 at the Fieldhouse Mall. "Ink for Freedom" will be tonight at 8in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. There will be letter writing, prisoner information and a video-speech of Reverend Farisani of South Africa. -The Observer 
He_sburgh Program in Public Service presents Gary Orfteld, Professor of Political Science and Education at the University of Chicago, speaking on "Shutting the Door to College: The Decline of Minority and Low-Income Stu­dents in the 1980's" tonight at 8 in the Galvin Life Science Center Auditorium. -The Observer 
A Brazilian lunch to benefit the flood victims in Brazil will be served from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. today at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
"The Moral Delegitimation of Law" is the title of a lecture to be presented by Reverend Richard John Neuhaus, Director of the Center on Religion and So­ciety of New York, today at noon in the Law School Court­room, room 200. -The Observer 
ISO elections are being held today from 6 to 10 p.m. Ballots will be in the ISO office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Annual Student Art Exhibit will be held at the Cavanaugh-Corby Room of LaFortune Student Center today from 4 to 10. -The Observer 
New Jersey delegation to the Mock Convention will meet in Room 1000 of the library at 6:30 tonight. For more information call Mark at 272-7497. -The Observer 
Mock MCAT will be held Saturday, April 9 at 8 a.m. in Room 123 and 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. AED will sponsor the full exam plus essay. Sign up with Mrs. Filbert in 239 Nieuwland Science Hall. -The Observer 
Class of '89 must turn in Senior Trip surveys to the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune Student Center or 103 Haggar by 5 p.m. -The Observer 
The Mock Convention and presidential politics will be the topic of tonight's Campus Perspectives talk show from 10 to 11 on.WVFI-AM 640. Guests will be Mock Con­vention Chairman Vince Willis, Rules Committee Chair­man Michael Faehner, Dukakis Campaign Chairman Mark Bettencourt, Jackson Campaign Chairman John Far­ley, Gore Campaign Chairman Mary LaSata, and WVFI political commentators, Bob Groth, Chris Devron, Ed Yevoli, and Matt Schlapp. Host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400. -The Observer 

Design Editor . . . . . ...... Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Design Assistant Pete LaFleur Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Typesetters... . ................... Mike Buc Accent Layout ................. Rachel O'Hara .................... . .......... Smed Labae Typist .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Will Zamer News Editor....................... Cathy Stacy ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee Copy Editor.. .. .. .. . .. ........ Erin Lynch SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Sports Copy Editor ....... Steve Megargee Photographer.. . . . Patrick Kusek 
Tile o.-ner (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile Obeener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina Tile oe-ner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46H6. 
Tile oe-ner is a member of Tile Allodalell Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
~---~-----~-­
The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1988 

Procrastination is the fall of Spring 
It's springtime, supposedly, and I can't even enjoy the beauty of the season because all the work I put off during my prolonged apathy in February has smacked me in the face. 
Sure, it was ironic that you had to look at pictures in the paper of people enjoying them­selves in the blinding sunlight as you used the front page to guard against this J\iidwestern hurricane. It's wrong. 
It's like Notre Dame losing to Purdue in 1984. It's wrong. 
Does it always seem that the rain blows in your face no matter which direction you are walking in or is someone trying to tell you some­thing? 
Why is the drop date for a class just early enough to be before the test that you are con­fident about and just too late after you received that second "D?" 
Then there are the incidentals, like losing your driver's license on a really good drink spe­cial night, getting a bomb on a ten page paper during an electric storm, being allergic to Com­munion hosts, your roommate's suicidal ten­dencies over the lack of marital opportunities, or the reality that the only answer you know on a Theology exam is Bathsheba. 
Yesterday I ended up face-down in eight inches of muddy water when I fell off the planks maintenance strategically placed between LeMans and Haggar so we could get to class without doing the backstroke. 
I have a friend who was hunted down for jury duty last week. As usual, the government could not understand that she lives in Indiana during the school months and getting to Texan courtrooms presented a slight problem. 
That's the same friend who was turned down for an SYR by her high school senior prom date. 
Aside from the incidentals, the root of these problems that I feel suddenly saddled with is neglect. For instance, my contact lenses. They are supposed to correct my vision to 2(}20 but are so covered with protein deposits that there are yellow halos around all lights and chalkboards, I have headaches from blurred vision and my glasses look like something from Coca-Cola's lens grinders. 
There are other things we all neglect that lead us to feel strapped, like parking tickets, 20-page research papers, senior comps, MCATs, telephone, Mastercard and Visa bills and our health... even when the circles under our eyes promt the question, "Why didn't I start this when it was assigned?" The answer is all too clear. It was too easy to put off. It was too easy to daydream and look to the future. 

Sandy 
Cerimele 
Saint Mary's Editor 
· / " 
'------__J...L....l!L.....:~""-..o....J/-,=IJ.._._____. 
But the due dates are no longer months away. They are this week, next week and before we know it, finals will be tomorrow. But since An Tostal, bookstore basketball, tanning weather, keg softball and saying good-bye to all our senior friends is obviously more important than passing to the next grade, we will have to learn a semester of Calculus in four hours, ending studies early so we can go to Senior bar and take the test with a hangover or a buzz, depend­ing on when we started. 
There seems to be no justice in the world. Just when the weather permits activities that take us from our studies, we are torn by the dilemma of responsibility. Of course there are those who have done their papers and studied for their tests already, who are probably laugh­ing at the rest of us who haven't been able to get past the astonishment of our procrastina­tion. 
But summer is around the corner, and procrastinators wouldn't jump out the window right this minute, so hang in there. (No pun intended). The lazy days of summer are also fast approaching. 
Besides, things ARE looking up... the Cubs are in first place. 
~--------------------, 


Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer advertising. 

Call 239-6900 


Coach Digger Phelps 
along with 

David Rivers, • Scott Paddock, and Joe Fredrick ~ 
present BBC Film on MEDJUGORJE• 
~ 

Thurs. April 7, 1988 8:00 p.m. Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Knights of Immaculate
... 


AMERICAN 
CANCER
~
SOCIETY~ 
Learn how the English masters did it. 
VVorkshops 1n landscape sketching. art h1story. architecture. Gam an 
ins1der's v1ew of the Summer Show. gallery opemngs and noble houses with members of the Royal 
Academy and workmg 
art1sts. 
College Cred1t 
Anglo-American Workshops 
12 East 86 St.# 408 
New York. NY 10028 
212-737-1559 
212-971-9682 

/ 

Thursday, April 7, 1988 The Observer page 3 

No pardon offered to North, says aide 
Associated Press 
SANTA Barbara, Calif. ­
President Reagan was giving merely a "throwaway com­ment" when he made a remark interpreted by some congress­men as a sign he might pardon former aides Oliver North and John Poindexter, the White House said Wednesday. 
"I don't think it's safe to make any conclusions about the president's attitude about pardons," White House spokes­man Marlin Fitzwater told reporters as Reagan vaca­tioned at his mountaintop ranch. 
Fitzwater confirmed that the president, at a closed meeting with Republican members of the House on March 22, had been urged by Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., to pardon North and Poindexter, who have been indicted on felony charges in the Iran-Contra affair. 
Hyde suggested Reagan sign pardons in the final days of his term next January, possibly in a ceremony at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Wash­ington. 
Hyde's comments were greeted by applause from other GOP congressmen. Reagan said, "I like the sound of those words," according to one uni­dentified congressman quoted by The Washington Post. An­other lawmaker recalled the president as saying, "I like hearing what you said." 
Some lawmakers have taken Reagan's comment as a hint that he will pardon the two former national security aides, but Fitzwater played down the significance of the remarks. 
He said Reagan "told them he was not discussing pardons, period, and then he had some throwaway line which was similar" to the remark quoted by the congressmen. 
"I gave them no significance at the time. I don't give them any significance now. Cer­tainly you've heard the presi­dent say much stronger things than that in terms of his feelings about North and Poin­dexter," the spokesman said. 

MR. STANFORD CONTEST 
7:30 PM Saturday, April 9th 
Washington Hall $2.00 Admission 
Proceeds go to Hope Mission Homeless Shelter 
CONTESTANTS: 

Matt Glaser  Chris White  
Pat Hall  Steve Wightkin  
Kerry Panozzo  Bill Wolf  
Dave Sauve  Mike Woll  


Student artwork was displayed this week in the Corby their works will be framed and hung in LaFortune. Room of the LaFortune Student Center for the Annual Story below. Student Art Exhibit. Two winners received prizes, and 

A·rt exhibit winners chosen 

J)on'+ fY'\ l ss 
.. I I
(.'C.. 
-

~ 
10n\~ht­



9:30 


+-ort•s 
By AMY HOWARD News Staff 
Catherine Burger and Brian Doherty were each chosen as winners of the Annual Student Art Exhibit on display in Corby Room of the LaFortune Student Center this week. 
The exhibit, sponsored by Student Government and run by the Cultural Concerns Com­mittee, received donations for prize money from Student Gov­ernment, the Alumni Associa­tion, and the Snite Museum. 
Each winner received a $200 purchase prize and their work will be framed and hung in LaFortune. Burger's winning piece is a photo-silkscreen titled, "Approaching the Ul­terior." Doherty used photog­raphy as his medium and his work is titled, "After Hours." 

"My goal was to look at things differently and gain a new perspective so myself and others would notice their sur­roundings through color and point of view," said Burger, a senior art major at Saint Mary's. Her work is one of nine pieces in her senior compre­hensive exam and portrays a city street in Cincinatti. 
Doherty, a sopohmore design major, dealt with various light shades in his photo, which he decided to submit after taking a photography course this se­mester. Doherty took his photo in the Administration Building for a class assignment. 
"The print I chose was spe­cial to me, but I didn't think it would win any prizes. I just thought it would be good to get my work displayed," he said. 
Art work could be entered by any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student, and works were judged on the basis of originality and creativity, ac­cording to Professor Robert Leader, director of graduate studies in art and one of three judges who chose the winners. Karin Geldmacher, a senior art major, and Teri Larkin, assis­tant director of the Snite Museum, also served as judges. 
One drawback to the compe­tition was the limited amount of entries in the show, accor­ding to Carmina Perez, chair­man of the Cultural Concerns Committee. "The awards are purchase prizes, and many stu­dents don't want to sell their art work," she said. 
The art department is also sponsoring an art exhibit next week and this conflict could also be the cause of some of the reluctance to participate, said Perez, adding that next year she hopes to hold the show in conjunction with the art depar­tment's show to eliminate scheduling conflicts. 
The exhibit will be on display through Saturday, April 9, in the Corby Room of the LaFor­tune Student Center. 
Impress 


**ALL NOTRE DAME CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS** 
Registration materials are now available for you to: 
1. 
REGISTER for the 1988-89 ACADEMIC YEAR-­Registration is MANDATORY to be an officially recognized organization on campus. 

2. 
APPLY FOR FUNDING. 

3. 
APPLY FOR FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND. 

4. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT table registration. 


DEADLINE FOR REGISTERING YOUR ORGANIZATION IS: FRIDAY, APRIL 8 BY 4:00P.M. pick up packets in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune Student Center 

-----~---------------~ 
page 4 The Observer 
Quality in teaching stressed by task force 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Senior Staff Reporter 
Although the Notre Dame faculty does a "good job of teaching," a University task force report says many profes­sors are not as effective as they could be. 
"They do a very good job of teaching. We were quite im­pressed by it," said Richard Foley, philosophy professor and chairman of the Task Force on the Quality of Teach­ing in a Research University. 
Teaching can, however, be improved, he said. ''A policy of benign neglect with respect to teaching," exists at the Univer­sity, the report states. "Ad­ministrators and faculty have been co-conspirators in this policy."
r 
Notre Dame "can't rest on
r 
r its laurels," said Foley. "There r are trends, national trends,
, 
~ that you have to be careful 
, about." 
, "There are national pre­ssures which make an empha­'r sis on teaching difficult," he f said. Many job offers and r grants are based on research r quality, not teaching, he said. , ~ Administrators, therefore, 
"need to be as aggressive atr promoting good teaching as they are at promoting good re­
~ search," the report states. The task force made 17
~ recommendations to promote teaching and called attention first of all to a need to "substan­tially" increase the number of faculty members. Major courses with 40-80 stu­dents "tend to stifle intellectual interaction, limit the the possi­bility of frequent writing as­signments and in general en­courage passivity on the part of students," the task force wrote, adding that more fac­ulty members will cure this problem. The task force recommended that additional faculty mem­bers will also reduce the num­ber of courses taught by graduate students and adjunct professors. Using graduate students to teach introductory classes should be discouraged, the 
report said. Quality education is, in general, best accom­plished by regular faculty members, Foley said, adding, "The primary role for graduate students should be as­sisting." 
It is not feasible, however, to eliminate all graduate students from teaching positions, "but that is the goal," Foley said. 
The task force recommended "the use of adjuncts to teach basic courses should be mini­mized." 
The report also called for completion of a proposed new classroom facilty as "one of the University's highest priorities." Classrooms with good lighting and sufficient blackboard space are in short supply, the report said, and are "a major problem that must be addressed soon." 
In addition to more class­room space, the report also rec­ommended the bookstore be dramatically upgraded. "The bookstore should be regarded as one of the major intellectual resourses in the Notre Dame teaching and research commu­nity," the report said. "What we envision is a store with a greater variety of books," Foley said. Bookstore adminis­trators, however, say more space is needed before addi­tional books are added, Foley said. 
The task force recommended the initiation of a senior thesis or senior project for all majors. 
The report also recommends establishment of a center for the improvement and support of teaching, similar to other 

University  centers  and  in­ 
stitutes.  
Stephanie Alden,  a  under­ 

graduate student member of the task force, said this center is the most important recom­mendation. "Students want to have teachers they can learn from," Alden said, adding that such a center would improve the quality of professors' teach­ing as well as better train graduate students to be teach­ing assistants. 
All such efforts to improve Notre Dame's "teaching envi­ronment" should be based with the individual academic de­partments, the report said. "The departments themselves are in the best position to over­see their teaching," the report said. "They have the expertise to determine what they should 
be  teaching  and  how  they  
should  be  teaching it,"  said  
Foley.  

Alden said it is important to place the emphasis at the de­partment level because each department uses a different ap­proach to teaching. 
"The University and depart­ments need to create an atmo­sphere in which professors take pride in their teaching and are rewarded for doing so," said Foley. 
Foley also said there is dis­trust of the Teacher Course Evaluations among the fac­ulty. 
"In general, the faculty feel like the TCE doesn't accurately reflect quality ofteaching," Al­den said. "(The problem) has to do with the nature of the questions." 
She said the faculty still does want some form of ·student evaluation of their teaching. 
Two undergraduates and two graduate students were mem­bers of the task force. ''The fac­ulty definitely listened to what we had to say," Alden said. Al­den said she and sophomore Dave Kinkopf were able to give a good deal of input because they were the only two under­graduate students on the com­mittee. 
"I think the report definitely reflects the attitudes of both students and faculty," Alden said. She said the students on the committee talked to many students, faculty members and department heads and dis­tributed a survey to students. The students then made their own report to the task force. 
Senior Staff Reporter Jim Riley contributed to this arti­cle. 

NOTRE DAME 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS Session 1: Friday, April 8 at 7:30pm Featuring five collegiate bands-Judges' Jam approximately 11 :30 pm 
Session II: Saturday, April 9 at 12:30 pm Featuring six collegiate jazz groups 
Session Ill: Saturday, April 9 at 7:30 pm Featuring five collegiate jazz groups-Guest appearance by Airmen of Note Awards Ceremony 
Tickets available at gate. 
Session I  $7.00  All Session Pass  $12.00  
Session II  $4.00  Student Discount  $2.00 I session  
Session Ill  $5.00  Student Pass  $10.00  


-~-~---~~-----~------~--~-~---~ 
Thursday, April 7, 1988 
The Observer page 5 

Task force discusses sexuality, discrimination 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN 
News Editor 
The task force report on 
"Marriage, Family, and Other 
Life Commitments," released 
Wednesday covers a broad 
range of issues including dis­
crimination, sexuality, 
graduate student problems, 
and child care. 
Many of the issues were related to respect for fellow members of the Notre Dame community. "The theme of respect for differences runs all through our recommen­dations," said senior Jim Wim­biscus, a member of the task force. "People need to respect others' personhood, and the University needs to send a clear signal that this is ex­pected," he added. 
It was difficult to single out one issue as most important, said Kitty Arnold, chair of the task force and director of · Career and Placement Ser­vices, because the report "con­cerned two different con­stituencies --students, and faculty and staff." 
Among the students, "we were concerned with the lack of sensitivity displayed by a small segment of the student body," Arnold said. While this group is small, "they are in­fluential when their insen­sitivity manifests itself through jokes about weight, crude remarks about women, and verbal abuse" given to any minority. 
"I don't think lack of respect for differences is pervasive, but even a few cases is too much," said Roemer. To increase awareness about such issues, the task force rec­ommended that freshman receive instruction on a long list of issues concerning sexuality. "Freshmen are more accessible as a group," said Arnold, "and it's never too early to expose people to these issues." According to Arnold, both a classroom format and workshop settings were dis­cussed. "We'd like to get several offices to coordinate a 
cooperative approach," said 
Arnold. The problem with 
courses on sexuality issues, 
said Arnold, was finding 
qualified teachers for the 
courses. 
To combat sexual harass­
ment, the task force recom­
mended a ''policy statement 
which defines and prohibits 
sexual harassment," and "a 
formal complaint procedure," 
according to the report. "It's 
hard to get data on the subject, 
but . . . sexual harassment 
seems to occur, according to 
our surveys," said Edward 
Trubac. task force member 
and associate professor of 
finance and business econom­
ics. "We'd like to see an ex­
plicit policy like that which 
some other schools have 
tried," he added. 
Senior Joanna Branick, a member of the task force, said that an explicit policy would help victims of harassment. "There really isn't any way now to know what to do. Under this policy, people would feel more comfortable filing a com­plaint," she said. 
The issue of varying forms of sexuality in the Notre Dame community was also addressed by the task force. "We tried to see the issues related to sexuality," said Eugene Ul­rich, professor of theology and a member of the task force. "We tried to ask what areas people thought had room for growth. We tried to sample all groups," he added. 
One area where there is room for growth on campus is atti­tudes about homosexuality, ac­cording to Arnold. "The task force was cognizant of the dif­ficult situation the University faces as a Catholic institu­tion.... But we found very strong unaccepting attitudes among students towards homosexuality.'' 
"If we close the door on op­portunities to at least learn what homosexuality means, we will likely maintain the nega­tive, self-destructive attitudes found among homosexual per­sons now," added Arnold. 
Ulrich said "it is important to · between a homo­
---, 

Are You Graauanng-t 
Personafize your yratfuation .9Lnnouncements 1 witli Printed 9\(flmecard Inserts 
I 50 cards for only $7.35 
(Available In same ty_petace and color as the announcements) 
Call ADWORKS at 239-6757 to. order 
L------·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·--------------------­
' 
Italian Cafe 
Italian Specialties will be sold outside Haggar Center at St. Mary's Today from 2-4 PM 
sexual orientation and homo­
sexual activity. 
"We should foster respect for 
all, and within that context, 
while we are not at all recom­
mending homosexual activity, 
those of homosexual orienta­
tion ought not to be dis­
criminated against," he added. 
"We can do this in the same 
way we respect heterosexuals. 
yet do not condone adultery." 
The isolation of the graduate 
student population was also ad­
dressed by the task force. "The 
graduate student body seems 
to have a different social expe­
rience on campus," said Ar­
nold. "They feel extremely iso­
lated ... they feel they are 'not 
included' in the largest sense 
of the word." 
Arnold said that graduates feel like they are treated as 'second class citizens' com­pared to undergraduates. "Even though graduate stu­dents use LaFortune Student Center, they feel as if the undergraduates own it," said Arnold. The task force report recommends several changes to ease this dilemma, including year-round basic services, a graduate student chapel, and space earmarked for graduate students in LaFortune Student Center. 
According to the report, the task force recommends that parietal regulations be voted on by graduate students. "By the time students are in graduate school, they can make responsible decisions as more mature adults," said Ul­rich. Arnold also said that rules that may apply to undergradu­ates are not appropriate for graduate students in their late 20s and 30s. 
The issue of child care for children of staff and graduate students was strongly ad­dressed by the task force. "The University currently does not provide any facilities for child care. They are not immedi­ately involved with the issue," said Trubac. "The University should provide either on campus child care or should subsizize in some way peoples' costs." 
Minority
continued from page 1 
year summer session following their junior year. 
The pre-freshman year sum­mer program began on a trial basis two years ago through a grant from the GTE Corpora­tion, said Hofman. The post­freshman year program will be held this summer through the Balfour-Hesburgh program. 
This program, although of-

TASK FORCE ON LIFE COMMITMENTS 
STUDENT RECOMMENDATIONS: 
• 
Provide comprehensive orientation to graduate students · 

• 
Allow graduate students to choose whether parietals regulations will apply to themselves 

• 
Provide year round food, laundry, and mail services to on-campus graduate students 

• 
Explore the possibility of coresidential dormitories for both graduate and undergraduate students 

• 
Begin instruction of freshmen on sexual ethics, sexual harassment, date rape, positive male/female relationships, homosexuality, and other relevant issues 


WORKPLACE RECOMMENDATIONS: 
• 
Provide some means for employees of the University to obtain child care facilities for their children 

• 
Adopt a parental policy that is more generous to both women and men and provides job guarantees 

• 
I,nvestigate creation of services for those with responsibility for elderly or incapacitated relatives 

• 
Offer a stopped "tenure clock" option for faculty members opting for parental leave 


POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS: 
• 
Develop a policy which defines sexual harass­ment and offers formal complaint procedures to students, faculty, and staff 

• 
Stress a need for an atmosphere of tolerance, nondiscrimination, and respect for all persons 

• 
Broaden access to campus meeting places and channels for public notice for members of the community interested in discussing sexuality 

• 
Include "sex" and "sexual orientation" as part of University nondiscrimination policies 


"We (the task force) are committed to child care. Weal­most have to be. With demographics being what they are, it's a national issue," said Arnold, citing a survey that found only 10 percent of Americans are members of a 'classic family' with one male breadwinner. She added, "Do we support the family at Notre Dame?" 
"We as a group are strongly committed to the recommen­dations that we made," said Kitty Arnold, chair of the task force and director of Career 
fering financial assistance for the summer programs, pro­vides no additional scholar­ships to the participants during the regular term. Students who complete the Balfour-Hesburgh Program will receive preference for the Bal­four Scholarships, which are included in Notre Dame's new $12 million endowment fund for minorities and are based on in­
dividual need  and  available  
funds.  
The  University  now  has  



HAPPY (belated) BIRTHDAY, 
J.P.! 
Love, Molly Widget 
and Placement Services. 
Mary Ann Roemer, task force member and coordinator of special events for the Center for Social Concerns, praised the task force's mandate to ex­amine all the issues. "Monk (Malloy) is creating an atmo­sphere of openness" where "it's 'O.K. to talk critically if need be," she said. 
After distribution to mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity, the task force reports will be considered for imple­mentation by "officers of the , ~ administration," according to Arnold. 
about $20 million in endowment funds underwriting undergrad­uate minority scholarships. 
"We are deeply grateful to 
the Balfour Foundation for making this essential and inno­vative program possible," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "Not only its participants, but the entire Notre Dame community will derive incalculable benefits from the Balfours' generosity." 
The program honors Lloyd Balfour and his friend, Univer­sity President Emeritus Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh. Balfour was the founder and sole owner of the L.G. Balfour Company, a jewelry manufac­turer in Massachusetts, at the time of his death in 1973. 
\leneed with 
the confidmce~SU¥00,
thededicationoC 
amarathoner andthe 
rourage ofan aplorer. 
\\<t nt'r\l 1 ~.a Co~ H,luntt-tr 
Call uu•J-110()...4l4-8580. E1.1 9\ 
PeaceCorps. 
n......,..,_.._._ 
-----"­
~~ 
Thursday, April 7, 1988

page 6 The Observer 
Abandoned articles a real bargain at auction 
By SUSAN MARHEFKA News Staff 
"One man's trash is another man's treasure." 
Although there was incle­ment weather, a good-sized crowd turned out Wednesday evening to view the wares of­fered by Security. Bikes, bracelets and binoculars were the norm at the auction held in Stepan Center, sponsored by Notre Dame Security. 
The event is one of two an­nual auctions held every school year, usually in the spring and fall. 
"We usually hold the auc­tions shortly before both the Blue-Gold game and the first (football) game of the season," said Rex Rakow, director of Se­curity. 
Other "treasures" sold in­cluded watches, jewelry, cal­culators and cameras. Special items of interest were a set of headphones and a portable cas­sette player, a basketball, a car speaker, a car stereo and a Notre Dame horse blanket. 
As expected, a fast-talking 
r auctioneer kept the pace
r moving quickly. Jim Rockwell 
r 
r is a South Bend native who pre­viously worked for the Security 
r 
r department and for an auc­
r tioneering company. He has 
r been working at these auctions for the past four years, accor­ding to Rakow. Real bargains could be had as bicycles sold from $1 to $50 and most calculators and jewelry went for less than $20. However, all articles were not sold and those that remained at the end of the eve­ning were thrown away. The auctions are held to "get rid of property that has been recovered but hasn't been claimed," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. Items that have been recovered in attempted thefts, found on campus and aban­doned are included, be added. Clothes, eyeglasses and books are donated to local mis­sions, according to Rakow. While most items are held for as much as six to nine months, legally security only has to hold them for sixty days. If the ar­r ticles go unclaimed, they are r then stored by security until the 

r 
next auction. t Occaisionally a student will
r 
r claim one of the auction items 
~~o!~e:as~;~hes~~s~~k:s~~~~~
hasn't reported the theft or loss and if he substantiates his 
claim with the time and place that corresponds with police records, the article will be 
returned to its owner. 
u:n~o~=~~! ~::~ f~~ i~e$~: 
and go to the University depository, according to 
Rakow. 
"It (the auctions) seems the fairest way (to get rid of un­claimed property); everybody gets a shot at it," Rakow said. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

From the cloud's point of view 
Windy weather and cold rain beat down on students all morning and afternoon yesterday. Only a wet suit could have kept one dry between classes. Even the strongest of umbrellas were found cracked in half around the quad. 
Experts predicting shortage of doctors 
Associated Press could have even a modest 
BOSTON -An oversupply of shortage of physicians." doctors that is widely predicted In general, Schwartz's report for the turn of the century will and another by Dr. Ernest not materialize, and there Schloss of the University of could be a shortage instead, Arizona argue that the earlier two reports predict. predictions overstated the 
The reports contradict an supply of doctors and underes­often-repeated prophesy that timated demand for their ser­the nation will have tens of vices. thousands too many physicians Schwartz said the predic­by the year 2000 and so should tions of too many doctors train fewer doctors already have had an impact 
"I see no basis for cutting "Many college students are back on the number of new looking on medicine as an un­physicians," said Dr. William promising career, in part be­Schwartz of Tufts Medical cause they are being told that School. "I think we are likely there is going to be a huge to be in rough balance and physician surplus," 


..----------------------~ 
~ 
~ ~
Q
oV ~", 
... \<(;; ' 
o ~ ......'~ ~ .Stepan 
~,~ April 11 -14 
(J 
Opening Address given by Sou~h Bend's Mayor Joe Kernan 


Hijacker releases 32, holds royal family 
Associated Press 24 women. 
NICOSIA, Cyprus-The The gunmen are demandinghijackers of a Kuwait Airlines the release of 17 Shiite Moslems jet released 32 more pas­convicted and imprisoned in ·sengers in Iran early Kuwait for bombing the U.S. Thursday, but warned that and French embassies in 1983. 
those remaining would be in Iran's Islamic Republicdanger if authorities failed to News Agency, or IRNA, said meet the hijackers' demands, the 32 people released Iran's official news agency re­Thursday included two flightported. crew members, a Sudanese 
The release left about 50 pas­and a Yemenite. All those freed sengers and crew members were brought to the transit aboard the plane. lounge of Mashad airport and 
The hijackers warned in a were under medical care, it statement that three members added. of the Kuwaiti royal family who 
are still aboard the aircraft The hijackers earlier in­would pay a dear price if the sisted that the Boeing 747 be demands were not fulfilled, the refueled. Tehran radio quoted agency reported. airport authorities at Mashhad 
The release of the 32 addi­in northeastern Iran as sayingtional passengers came a day they would refuel the plane "to after the hijackers freed 25 prevent any calamity or inci­hostages -one ailing man and dent." 
Israeli girl killed in· Passover outing 
Associated Press Arabs wrestled two auto­matic rifles from the group's BEITA, occupied West two Israeli guards but did not 
Bank -A holiday hike by Is­fire them, the army reported. raeli teen-agers ended Wednes­Arab witnesses said the Is­day in a melee of shooting and raelis started the trouble by kil­
stone-throwing in an Arab ling an Arab. town. A 14-year-old Israeli girl and two Palestinians were Army spokesmen originally killed. said the girl, Tirza Porat, and 
Hours after the clash, Jewish several other Israeli teen­settlers raided the nearby Arab agers were shot but reported village of Hawwara, smashing later that she was killed by a car windshields, beating vil­rock. lagers and breaking into Eleven of the 18 hikers, the homes, said Jihad Howari, the 60-year-old man acting as Israeli-appointed head of the guide, and one of the two Israeli village council. guards were injured and two 
The youngsters, children of Palestinians were wounded by Jewish settlers on the occupied gunfire, the army said. West Bank, were on a Passover outing and had stopped for a Dozens of settlers waving an picnic lunch when the trouble Israeli flag held a vigil Wed­began with stone-throwing. nesday night near Beita, which Members of the group said the army had sealed off, and Arabs offering to help then led said they would build a new them to Beita. settlement in the area. 
NDAVEAPTS. 
SPECIAL SUMMER RATES AVAILABLE also renting for Fall 
2 Bedrooms completely furnished CALL 234-6647 
Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency 
liiiiiiiiiiiOH-IIOIIIIiOoOOOOIIIIOUiOOOIIIIOIOIIIOOIOIIIOOIIIIOO.IIIIOIIOOOOIOOOOOIOIIIIIIOIIOIO., 
:.~ SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
iThl'nkr'ng ab t t k' ff
: ou a 1ng a year o before Law School?
.  
~  Medical School?  
ii  or Graduate School?  

lA Chicago. Litigation Fi~m is loo~ing for a person, for Legal-MediCal Internship. We Will be conducting zinterviews on the following date: 
APRIL 11, 1988 at SMC, 
APRIL 12, 1988 at NO 

If it is more convenient, you may write to: 
Terrence M. Johnson, Esq. The Monadnock Building 53 West Jackson Boulevard Chicago, Illinois 60604 (312) 922-4022 

; ..................................................................................................tt 
Thursday, April 7, 1988 The Observer page 7 
Security Beat 
Thursday, March 31 
I: 19 a.m. A Howard Hall resident reponed that her luggage was stolen from the hallway outside her room sometime during the afternoon on March 10. Her loss is $3!Xl. 
1:30 a.m. A Farley Hall resident reported that someone threw a rock through her window at about 2:45 a.m. No one was injured. 
7:30 a.m. A University employee reponed that his car struck a deer on 
Grape Road.  Damage estimates  arc  
unknown.  
12:44 p.m.  A resident  of Flanner  

Hall reported that cash was stolen from his room sometime hctween 4:30 and I 0 p.m. on March 30. His loss is $70. 
II 
:45 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident reponed that his car was broken into while parked in the D6 lot. The incident occurred between 8 p.m. on March 29 and II p.m. on March 30. His loss is estimated 

at $365. 

I 
:30 p.m. A Sarin Hall resident reported that his car was vandalized while parked in the Dl lot hetween 4 


p.m. on March 30 and I p.m. on March 31. Damage estimates arc not known. 
1:30 p.m. Notre Dame Security re~ponded to a minor traffic accident at the Main Circle. No one was injured. 
I :(Kl p.m. A resident of Flanncr Hall repurtcd that his radar detector was stolen from his vehicle while it was parked in the D2 lot. The incident occurcd sometime hctween 9:20 p.m. on March 27 and 12:13 p.m. on March .11. His loss is estimated. at $2'!5. 
2:35 p.m. An O'Hara Grace resident reponed that her car was vandali1ed while it was parked in the B I lot ~omctime hctween 8:50a.m. and 2:25 
p.m. Damage is estimated at $100. 
4:03 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reponed the theft of four huhcaps from his car whih: it was parked in the D2 lot sometime hctween March 27 and March 31. 
3:.13 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reponl·d the loss of her watch while she was walking on the South Quad at ahout 2 p.m. 
10:34 p.m.An Off-Campus student reponed the loss of his wallet on the Stepan Haskethall Couns around 8:30 p.m. 
Reports 
continued from page 1 
ately this will probably run into An Tostal," he said. 
+
American 
Red Cross 

Be..· a voluntc..Tr. 
H:OO p.m. A Security Officer on routine patrol discovered that a Flanner Hall resident's car had been vandalized. This incident occurred in the D2 lot sometime between 4 p.m. on March 29 and !! p.m. on March 31. Loss is valued at $100. 
II :59 p.m. Security assisted the Notre Dame Fire Department in responding to a fire alarm at St. Ed's Hall. It was a false alarm. 
Friday, April 1 
I0:00 a.m. Three student vehicles parked in Green Field were reponed vandalized sometime hetween 9:30 
p.m. on March 31 and 8:30 a.m. on April I. 
5:00 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident reponed that his car had been broken into sometime between 4:45 p.m. on March 31 and 5 p.m. on April I. 
I0:00 p.m. A Holy Cross priest reported the theft of several floral arrangements from the dock entrance of Corby Hall sometime between 8:30 and 9:30 p.m. Loss is estimated at $225. 
Saturday, April 2 
4:00 p.m. Two South Bend youths were iss.ued citations for illegally consuming alcohol in the Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
Sunday, April 3 
3:29a.m. A Pasquerilla West resident reponed the theft of a cassette tape from her room around I :40 a.m. This tape was later recovered and returned to its owner. 
5:30p.m. A Quebec, Canada resident reponed the theft of a gold ring and bracelet from her purse sometime between noon and 5 p.m. in the vacinity of Rolfs Aquatic Center and the JACC fieldhouse. 
Monday, Apr.il 4 
12:20 a.m. A Farley Hall resident reponed the loss of her ID case and contents in Flanner Hall sometime in the evening hours. 
10:10 p.m. A Holy Cross Hall resident reponed the loss of his wallet and conlents in the vacinity of Grace Hall sometime on March 31. 
II :03 p.m. A resident of Keenan Hall reponed the theft of three keys on a ring from the lock on his door sometime around 10:45 p.m. 
"But if we show apathy by not responding to the reports," he added, "the administration would have no choice but to decide on their own." 
Paese said that hall meetings probably would take place one week to ten days after the reports have been distributed to the student body. 
The task force reports were distributed Wednesday to all students and staff, according to Dick Conklin, director of Uni­versity relations. 
For people who have to stand upalld11r 
~ Now there's an incredibly _. ~~. ~ comfortable answer to your ,.,·-. i:J:rrJ, .~~ · li:~•Ji aches and pams.
1 

• , .... :'( ' "·" ' · ·, ''' :'""' ; v .~· Birkenstcick·'' footwear 
clings to every contour of 
your feet, providing cradle-support that works to improve posture and circulation. ~ Test·walk a pair now. • L.......~L.... 22 styles. $27 to $74. ~OCt<­
rht" ll"!mnu~ lurmy lnol11r~ \O<lritll\ lrom G1•rrrruny 
Ernie's Shoe Repair 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend 288-5717 
Delegates attend candidates' debate for mock convention 
By RICHARD THORNBURGH 
News Staff 
As part of the Mock National Convention, students represen­ting the Democratic presiden­tial candidates met Wednesday night in the Hesburgh Library auditorium to debate foreign policy issues. 
Student delegates listened as the students debated their can­didates' positions on Soviet re­lations, Latin American rela­tions, and U.S defense policy. 
Representing the democrats were Bill Smith as Paul Simon, Erich Straub as Jesse Jackson. Mary LaSata as AI Gore, and Mark Bettencourt as Mike Dukakis. Prof. John Gilligan, director of the Institute for In­ternational Peace Studies, and Prof. King Pfeiffer, professor of government and interna­tional studies, were the panelists and Steve Claeys moderated the debate. 

Each candidate was given two minutes to answer the panelists' questions and the first candidate to respond was allowed a rebuttal after the others had addressed the issue. Claeys said this format at­tempted to model the debate after the actual presidential debates of last fall. 
The purpose of the debate was to "raise an awareness of the real convention and the ac­tual issues of the 1988 campaign among students and to be a source of information for the democratic delegates to next week's mock convention," said Claeys. 
Questions for the candidates included, "Do you favor a com­prehensive test ban treaty with the Soviets?", "What kind of relationship would your admin­istration seek to establish with the Soviet Union?", and "What would your attitude be towards the current governments in Nicaragua and El Salvador?" 
The candidates prepared for the questions by contacting their campaign headquarters and reading the relevant posi­tion papers. Bettencourt and Smith are campaign volun­teers for Dukakis and Simon as well. 
Next week, over 600 student delegates will meet Monday through Thursday at Stepan Center for the Mock National Convention. 
Each party will select their nominee in the same manner as the Democratic and Repub­lican National Conventions this summer. 


A grass-roots movement 
Freshman Chris Weldon stands on a fallen tree out­Messina. The tree was downed Wednesday in bad side Grace Hall with friends Dan Soller and Chris weather but it looks like things have blown over. 

Threats 
continued from page 1 
"In other calls, they called not the student but the stu­dent's parents or the boyfriend of the student" and said that the student was being held, Johnson said. 
Johnson said Security noticed a similarity among some of the cases. "Four of the students had come in on the same flight or the same night" at Michiana Regional Airport," he said. 
Jackley, who worked at the airport at the time, came under 
, ..,_...,. ·­


investigation. 
After serving six months in Monroe County Jail, Jackley will serve an additional six months under house arrest, Rakow said. 
The judge also ruled that Jackley not be allowed to own or use a phone except for work purposes. Jackley will be forced to serve the remaining year of his original two year sentence if he fails to comply with this and other conditions, said Rakow. 
"You forfeit certain rights when you plead guilty to a 
BIRTHDAY! George, NO '57 Love, Everyone. 
··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-· 
St. Joseph County prosecutor, who united the investigative ef­forts of Notre Dame Security and Monroe County. 1 
"Given the nature of the 1 crime, I think (the decision to 1 limit Jackley's use of the , ~ phone) was within the court's 'I perogative," Barnes said. 
j j 
Race 
continued from page 1 
met privately with Sen. Bob Dole, once his strongest rival. 
Bush said he envisioned a role for Dole in the general election in which the Kansan would work "as much as he 
possibly has time to give. A lot of it's here and a lot of it I hope will be around the country." Dole said they talked about "getting George elected in No­vember." 
"Is Mike Dukakis boring? Let's put it this way: if you loved Mondale, you'll like Dukakis." 
For a lree copy ol the cu"enl lS.\Ue of Nauonal Revrew wrile IO Depl UN IV . I ~0 WI Hlh Street New York, N.Y 
·----· 100t6 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 7, 1988

a e 8 
r 
r r r 
r 
f 
r 
" 
' 
r 
Best theological 
There does not exist the engineer who extended, and never reversed. would come before a technical audience In light of this "Second Law," it and profess to have discovered a per­would appear that Catholic theologians petual motion machine; after doing so who expend energy trying to justify or he would be roundly laughed out of the allow actions such as artificial birth room. A well-known natural law, the control, homosexuality, remarriage second law of thermodynamics, states after divorce, euthanasia and abortion that "the total amount of useful energy are seeking the theological equivalent in the universe is always decreasing," of perpetual motion. How is it that a and this is the classical proof against Catholic theologian can spend his time perpetual motion machines. working in areas such as these? And 
how is it that the pool of theological

John R. Regalbuto perpetual motion believers is large 
enough to perpetuate itself? 

First of all, it must be that theology guest column is such a difficult field. Scientists and engineers have mathematical models Scientists and engineers use this con­which work well enough when applied straint to save much time and effort in to natural objects or processes, and their research by discounting a priori these are quite amenable to tractable those processes which simply cannot proof. It goes without saying, however, work. Furthermore, by paying close at­that these models don't work so well tention to this law great advances can when trying to describe the super­be made. Such is the case for the recent natural, the Infinite. In its subtlety, the­advances in superconductor technolo­ology must be a more complex field of gy ; this process still obeys the second study than science or engineering. law, but the dissipation of useful energy Within this complexity, can't one easily has been made extremely small. Laws lose sight of orthodxy? Can't one even of nature such as this both constrain find the room to build a self-consistent and guide scientific research, and thus rationale somehow circumventing 
•
route IS orthodox 
the Church will never accept represents perimentation? The world is becoming 
lost time. The yield of theological re­more and more polluted due to a dis­
search is lessened. regard for the consequences of tech­
Additionally, the inconsistency and nological production. Through tech­
division within the Church that Catholic nological advance, enough food for the 
perpetual motion thinkers belie· are not entire world is currently being 
the marks of a leader institution. Thus produced, but populations starve be­
an inefficient and embattled institution cause an unconcerned majority is not 
of research is left far behind the ex­distributing these resources equitably. 
tremely fast pace of technological ad­How can the pace and impact of 
vance. If theology is itself uncon­theological research be improved? The 
strained and not in a leader's position, most efficacious approach to theologi­
science also remains to a large extent cal research must be the orthodox ap­
unconstrained and unguided and is free proach: true large-scale advances in 
to create atrocities. any research field always arise from 
At present, the lag of theological re­efforts concentrated in their attention 
search behind technological advance is to governing laws. Works in orthodox 
much in evidence. Increasing dis­directions are the only efforts which 
respect for life is seen from increased can control technology, and the present 
suicide, violent crime, abortion and day need for this control is tragic in 
divorce rates. Aren't these linked to proportion.
technological advances in artificial Dr. John R. Regalbuto is a 1986 Notre 
birth control, abortion, surrogate mot­Dame graduate and is currently a pro­
herhood, in-vitro fertilization, eut­fessor of chemical engineering at the 
hanasia and human genetic or fetal ex-University of Hlinois at Chicago. 
P.O. Box Q 

the advance of technology is made Church doctrine? more efficient. Why then do not theologians welcome 
If scientists and engineers can benefit the guidance of the "Laws of Theol­from the great, inviolate laws of their ogy," especially the "Second Law?" fields of research, why cannot Catholic Why instead this great cry for complete theologians benefit from the great, in­academic freedom, so often in defense violate laws of the Church? Whereas a of theological perpetual motion? Could 
r 
"First Law of Theology" would be that one plain and simple reason be ad in­
r 
r supreme magisterium is infallible, tellectual's pride? Might another be a r "And this is the infallibility which the lack of fortitude? So often, to uphold r Roman Pontiff . . . enjoys in virtue of orthodoxy in today's society is not to r his office, when, as the supreme shep­be so immediately popular. Thirdly,r herd and teacher of all the faithful, who and to a large extent, might the moti­confirms his brethren in their faith, by vation arise from some form of com­
~ 
a definitive act he proclaims a doctrine passion? It is easily imaginable that a ~ of faith or morals" (De Ecclesia, Arti-priest hearing the agonized and sincere r •cle 25), the "Second Law of Theology" confession of a misformed conscience r would be that even ordinary magis­would want to bend the rules for this 
terium is to be accepted as truth: "This person.~ religious submission of mind and will But what use is a theology of bent
r 
~· must be shown in a special way to the rules and perpetual motion machines? r authentic magisterium of the Roman It certainly doesn't put theology in a 
Pontiff, even when he is not speaking position to control technological ad­r ex cathedra .... His mind and will in the vance. And this must be a fundamental r matter may be known either from the role of theological research, for natural r character of the documents, from his laws are not enough to control technol­r frequent repetition of the documents, ogy; science can create objects and 
r 
r 
or from his manner of speaking" (De processes which are scientifically in­
r 
r Ecclesia, Article 25). genious but morally atrocious. r It would be a cruel God to lead His Perpetual motion theology, however, 
, 
Church off in the wrong direction; represents unconstrained theology. It therefore it makes sense that those can only lend support to technologies~ areas taught consistently over a long which are contrary to human dignity.
r 
period of time can only be clarified and Furthermore, time spent on theories
r 
~ 
f 
r 
r 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something in­tellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Doonesbury 
a mainstream candidate capable of

Jackson demeans 
matching the intellect and expertise of 
· ·

Democratic Party George Bush. 
William J. Sammon Alumni Hall Dear· Editor: 

Jesse Jackson can now validly claim status as the Democratic front-runner 
Festival more

after his landslide victory in the Mic­higan caucuses. As a registered Dem­than a sucess ocrat, I am ashamed. Jesse Jackson does not deserve the political success Dear Editor: that he has enjoyed; he has manip­By the present letter, I would like to ulated and profited from divisive racial take this opportunity to thank and con­policies. Jesse Jackson is a radical. He gratulate all the people who partici­claims that his victories are a victory pated in one way or another in this for minorities; they are not. The more year's International Festival. The show Jesse Jackson portrays himself as the was a huge success, the songs and bearer of minority politics, the more dances were of great quality, and he takes minority politics away from W asbington Hall was packed with a mainstream politics. With near very receptive and excited audience. monolithic support from the black com­The standing ovation it gave the whole munity, simply because he is black, cast at the end was in itself a great Jackson has made black politics reward for the countless hours that become radicalized. What is more dis­over 100 people put into the Festival. couraging, however, is that the Demo­cratic Party, the party of Truman and Along with this happy note came the Kennedy, may actually allow Jackson sad realization that so many people had to be a significant power broker. Re­to be turned away. Due to fire regula­member what he stands for: he has tions, Washington Hall does not allow kissed up to international dirtbags such standing room, and its policy is to allow as Castro, Arafat, and Quaddafi. He ticket people first, and then to fill the talks blandly about realigning hall with stand-bys. Hence, latecomers, America's foreign policy away from both with and without tickets, were not Europe. Why Jesse? Not enough non­allowed in. We regret that such a sit­white radicals there? The Democratic uation had to occur and we apologizeParty has a great and proud tradition. to all to whom it happened. 
It is embarrassing to see it squandered Once again, very warm and sincere on the leftist agenda of a rabble-rouser. thanks to everyone who helped make It is bad enough that the city of Chicago the International Festival such a suc­must endure Jesse on a daily basis, and cess, and thus bring much needed mul­what a job of cooperation he has engen­ticultural awareness to the ND-SMC dered there, but it would be inexcusable community. for the Democratic Party to force his kindergarten politics on the entire na­Ramzi Bualuan tion. Enough of rhymes, riddles and International Festival Advisor cliches; the Democrats owe the nation March 30, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"The capacity for reforma­tion and change lies within." 
Preston Bradley 


Thursday, April 7, 1988 e_age 9
Viewpo1nt 
P. 0. Box Q 

Crimestoppers not amoral 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Victor J. Krebs' column of Mar. 28. In the article he states "one of the reasons why crime is allowed to proliferate in any commu­nity, and probably the reason why it is allowed at Notre Dame, is the general apathy towards the welfare of others." I believe this is not true. The main rea­son crime proliferates on our campus is the fact that most crimes go un­noticed. 
If one has been reading the Security Beat, one would realize that a great amount of the crime on our campus is theft. These occur especially outside the racquetball courts and in the South Dining Hall. I ask this: What compel­ling reason does a bystander have to suspect that the coat outside the court, or the bookbag in the storage area, doesn't actually belong to the person he sees leaving with it? The bystander would risk severe humiliation upon ac­cusing the actual owner of theft. However, if Crime Stoppers was a strong program on our campus, the bystander would have no second thoughts about reporting the perceived crime, and since his information is con­fidential, he would not run the risk of embarrassment upon false accusation. 
In the article, Krebs also states " ... there is something incongruous in the suggestion that we motivate people to help prevent crime in their commu­nity by means of monetary rewards." If Krebs feels that Notre Dame students are only looking for a quick buck, and morals are not involved, then how could we, as he stated in his article is Notre Dame's responsibility, possibly achieve " ... the mission to set a model to the rest of society, to show that moral principles are the only real means of combatting any sort of corruption"? Krebs places too great an emphasis on the reward a person would receive, and neglects what I feel to be the most im­portant characteristic of the program­-confidentiality. The informer would run no risk of being condemned by his peers for his high moral standards. The reward then becomes only an added plus to the informer's feeling of satis­faction of having performed a service to his community. 
I raise a question to Mr. Krebs: isn't an allowance parallel to that reward granted by Crime Stoppers? A young person may receive an allowance for performing certain tasks, but he really performs them as a duty to his family, and to strengthen the bond with his im­mediate family community. To further my point, what about the volunteer pro­grams on campus? Some students use these programs for the isolated purpose of having something to put on their job resume. But, a majority of students participate in volunteer work to help the less fortunate in their community, and to place this activity on one's resume is only an added bonus. Should we then conclude that since some people use the volunteer programs, only in self interest, that we should not have them at all? I think not. To sum it up, we must look beyond the shortcomings of Crime Stoppers and realize that this program will be a ben­eficial and strengthening force of our honorable Notre Dame community. 
Molly Jason 
Farley Hall 
March 30, 1988 
Reagan policy strives for peace 

Dear Editor: 
There has been a disease in this country which has especially run ram­pant since World War II. I am writing about the very contagious "red scare," an intense allergic reaction to the words communism or socialism that blinds the subject from the reality of particular circumstances. 
Mr. Smant, in his letter of Mar. 29, says " ... while groups such as Pax Christi show great awareness of the dangers of United States power, they do not realize this power can be put to good use." This simply is not the case, and it is an attempt to oversimplify the position of those who oppose contra aid. There is an advantage to being a global power, which requires a great degree of moral responsibility. Sadly enough, 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies ot the adm1nrstrat1on of either 1nst1tu!10n. The News IS repoi'W!d as accurately and ob1ectively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the maJority of the Editorial Board Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS ava1table to all members of the school communrty, and the tree expression of vary1ng op1nions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Wf fOOKD YOOR 
~M. Ml PISIDfNf, 00111f WAN15 TO sncK AhWND... 
the United States is not always this great moral influence on the global community. The Reagan administra­tion's policy in Nicaragua is one exam­ple of this. 
The tendency, as expressed in Mr. Smant's letter, is to label groups who oppose aid to the contras as "leftists." This is the tunnel vision which does not allow one to see the reality of the sit­uation, the reality being that the Nicaraguan people have been engaged in a civil war, in which the UnitedStates has been a direct participant in various ways. How can human rights be present in a country where fighting is everyday existence? How can peace come about when most of the fighting is instigated by weapons supplied by the United States and plans drawn up by the CIA? 
While pleased that progress toward peace has been made in Nicaragua, I do not believe that the United States has lived up to its moral responsibility in this area in the past several years. Will the Nicaragua people be able to live in peace? It is not that "America is blamed first" without reason in this situation. But, one must ask the ques­tion: who is responsible for needless bloodshed? Power entails moral re­sponsibility where the intellect wins over the disease called "red scare." 
Bob Dowd Moreau Seminary March 30, 1988 
SIT provides help in alcohol abuse 
Dear Editor: 

A new group has formed on campus, the Student Intervention Team (SIT). This is an alternative source of help which is both confidential and accessi­ble to students who feel more comfort­able approaching other students. SIT is a group of concerned students qualified to give guidance in the area of alcohol abuse. 
SIT members have been trained to conduct an "informal intervention" This is a process that allows members of the Notre Dame community to help a friend who has an alcohol problem. SIT members also provide information, literature or referrals to students with questions related to alcohol. 
SIT works in the following way: Chris is anxious about his girlfriend Jenny's drinking. He calls SIT and leaves a message on the answering machine, giving a number and a time when he can be reached. A SIT member returns his call to set up a time when Chris can talk about his concerns. 
Help is not solely directed at Jenny but also at her friends. SIT does not plan to be in contact with Jenny and makes no assumptions about her drink­ing. If Chris is simply seeking informa­tion, SIT can provide this. SIT offers any help or guidance he may need, pos­sibly referring him to a more appropri­ate source of help. 
If Jenny's drinking is presenting problems either for Chris, Jenny or other close friends, the SIT model can be useful. Mter the problem has been formulated, SIT helps Chris decide who should be involved. Chris and other con­cerned friends close to Jenny, maybe even her rector or a professor can be active in the process. An adequate resolution may be helping Jenny's friends identify and end their own be­haviors or attitudes which add to the problem. 
If Jenny's friends decide it would be beneficial to confront her, SIT helps them prepare for an intervention. SIT teaches, helps rehearse, gives encour­agement and is available whenever problems occur. Whether anything is done is up to Chris and Jenny's friends. 
Although SIT offers many options, the responsibility belongs to the con­cerned people. SIT focuses on clear ob­jective consequences of drinking and suggests consistent ongoing ways of responding. For those interested, infor­mation seminars will be held on April 12, 18, and 19 from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. All are wel­come to come. 
Helen Janss Howard Hall April 6, 1988 
Amnesty needs support for justice 
Dear Editor: 
If you were a political moderate and 
active labor organizer and yet were un­
justly arrested and imprisoned by your 
own government, to whom could you 
turn? Your only hope is Amnesty Inter­
national. Amnesty International is a 
worldwide organization· dedicated to 
human rights which works to achieve 
the release of Prisoners of Conscience. 
A Prisoner of Conscience is an indi­
vidual who is imprisoned becasue of his 
or her beliefs, color, ethnic origin, sex, 
religion or language and who has nei­
ther used nor advocated violence. The 
prisoner described in the opening sen­
tence is an actual Prisoner of Con­
science in South Mrica, Mutile Henri 
Fazzie. Fazzie has been in a South 
African prison since August of 1986 
merely because of his beliefs and not 
because he committed any crime. 
Amnesty International of NMMC is 
specifically working for Fazzie's 
release. By running letter-writing cam­
paigns and keeping the world informed 
about unjust activities, Amnesty Inter­
national seeks to create political pres­
sure which can lead to the release of 
Prisoners of Conscience. AI also works 
to ensure that all prisoners receive a 
fair and prompt trial and to put an end 
to torture and executions worldwide. 
Today (April 7) at 5 p.m. there will 
be a demonstration on the fieldhouse 
mall to bring attention to the unfair 
treatment which political prisoners are 
receiving throughout the world. In ad­
dition, at 8 p.m. tonight there will be a 
special letter-writing and information 
event held in the Notre Dame Room of 
LaFortune Student Center. Please 
come by to learn a little more about 
human rights issues and to write a let­
ter so that we can get Mr. Fazzie 
released from prison. 
John J. Farley Amnesty International April 3, 1988 
The Observer welcomes your .letters and columns. Please address them to The Observer, PO Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
-

Editorial Board 
Editor-In-Chief ........................... .............. Chris Murphy Managing Editor .................................. Ctvia Donnelly News Editor .............................. .............. Regia Coccia News Editor .............................. ........ Mall< Mclaughlin Viewpoint Editor ....................... ............ Man Slaughter Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Straeen Accent Editor ..............................................Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ............................. Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ..........................................Michael Moran 
Operations Board 
Buslnau Manager ......... . John Omder Advertising Design Manager.. ... Moly Killin AdvertJalng Manager ... . . . L.lnda Go6lilc:hnldr Production Manager ........ . 
H...H.....,...... Shill 
-
Systems Manager ...... .. ........ Mn~ Controller ............... . ........ Todd~ Graphic Alta Manager... ... ."'-ge an­
-

Accent
page 10 Thursday, April 7, 1988 
Alumni Association Director Lennon extends involvement 
HEIDI SCHLUMPF accent writer 

''Vou can do anything if you 
I have enthusiasm," reads the back of the business cards that Charles Lennon has sitting on his desk. This quotation by Henry Ford perfectly describes Lennon's personal philosophy. 
As the executive director of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association, as well as the president of South Bend's School Board, a volunteer for several community organiza­tions, a husband, and father of five children, Lennon's enthusi­asm must be an asset. 
"I've got the greatest job in the world," said Lennon, refer­ring to his position as execu­tive director of the Alumni As­sociation since December, 1981. He oversees the pro­grams and projects for the 80,000 alumni and 214 alumni clubs. 
Lennon is proud of Notre Dame's Alumni Association. "We have the largest club struc­ture in the world," he said. 
"Our whole philosophy is that you don't wait until you graduate to become involved in the Alumni Association. From the time you get accepted, you're indoctrinated to become 
a member of the Alumni Asso­
ciation." 
The Association doesn't em­phasize athletics because that support is already strong. Con­tinuing education is a priority. According to Lennon, "Notre Dame is in the forefront of alumni continuing education programs." These programs include the Hesburgh lecture series, Universal Notre Dame night, and others. 
As alumni director, Lennon is often asked why alumni wear plaid pants. He doesn't mind the question. It's publicity. "That's OK. They're talking about us, _even if we're the brunt ofjokes. People are talking about us." Lennon said. 
Unlike at most universities, Notre Dame alumni do not have to pay to be members of the Alumni Association. "We're totally funded by the Univer­sity," Lennon said. The Associ­ation also has various fund­raising projects to raise money for it's many programs, such as the Rockne stamp. 

A graduate of Notre Dame himself, Lennon is a native of Joliet, Ill., where he attended Catholic schools as a child. After graduating from high school, he entered a Carmelite seminary at Niagara Falls in Canada, but left during his novitiate of his second year. Instead, he decided to follow in his father's footsteps and at­tend Notre Dame. 
Lennon has used his degrees in biology and education, as well as his masters in guidance and counseling, to the benefit of the South Bend community. He has served as executive director of the Mental Health Association of St. Joseph County, the Model Cities-Model Neighborhood Program, the Community Development Agency, the Department of Redevelopment, and as director of the Housing Allowance Of­fice. 
Changes characterize 
success of 'Dallas' . 

JOE BUCOLO accent writer 

T
en years ago last Friday both a family and a show were born. By the time the world famous "Who shot J.R. ?" question was answered, the family had become an integral part of the lives of people around the world. They are the Ewings, and "Dallas" is their story. 
Looking back. viewers can see many changes that have taken place during the 1 0-year run of the hottest CBS show, which airs Fridays at 9 p.m. Pamela Barnes Ewing (Victoria Principal, who left the show at 
the beginning of this season), 
for example, was supposed to 
be the central figure on "Dal­
las" around whom the show's 
action was supposed to 
revolve; however, after a few 
-
episodes, it was apparent that 
J.R. Ewing (Larry Hagman) would emerge at the helm of the show. J.R. quickly became one of television's most intrigu­ing and memorable characters. 
"Dallas" also began what has become a staple for the nighttime soaps: the cliff­
hanger, a way to keep viewers in suspense during the sum­mer hiatus. While the fate of Sue Ellen Ewing's (Linda Gray) child after being involved in a car crash was the first "Dallas" cliffhanger, it was the famed "Who shot J.R. ?" incident that put "Dallas" on the television map and kept the world guess­ing all summer long. Ever since, the cliffhanger has pro­vided kidnappings, earthquakes, and even mas­sacres in an attempt to keep viewers interested. 
The cast of "Dallas" has seen 

many characters come and go. At the end of the '85-'86 season, for example, Patrick Duffy's character of Bobby Ewing died; however, a year later Duffy decided to return In an attempt to correct the show's sagging ratings. The end result was the '86-'87 clif­fhanger, when Pamela woke up from a long sleep (nine months actually), and viewers dis­covered that Bobby was alive; he died only in Pam's dream. 
While "Dallas" no longer holds the number one position among television shows, it still maintains a huge viewing audi­ence. What makes "Dallas" so special? Those involved with the show suggest that the show's intense emphasis on family appeals to its audience. Whatever the reason, "Dallas" is sure to keep up its tradition of great viewing entertainment. 
The making 
of Photopoll 
Compiled by Cara Anthony and Christine Walsh Photos by Zoltan Ury 

On Thursdays, The Observer usually runs Photopoll in this space. But this week. we thought we'd write a guest column instead. Photopoll is a compiling of interviews and photos of typical (and not so typical) Domers on topics of interest to other Domers. In our endless efforts to make Photopoll interesting, informative, and ready before the deadline, the column has almost assumed a life of its own. ''I'm Cara." ''I'm Mike." "''m Christine Walters, and this is Photopoll." It's 4:05 Monday morning. The birds aren't even up yet-and neither are we. You must be crazy ifyou think we start working this early. Sometime Monday afternoon, Cara calls Mike and Christine and they agree on a time to meet. It's now 4:30 the next day, and Christine and Cara have been waiting for 15 minutes at the Observer office for Mike to show up. He finally walks in, griping about Spanish class. He apologizes for being late (again), and asks whether Chris and Cara are ready to go. Little does he know that Chris and Cara still haven't thought of a question (again). So, for the next half hour, they sit around shooting down each others ideas. Finally they settle on the least lame one, and move to the lower level of Lafortune to stalk their prey. We've come to the conclusion that this campus is full of photo-phobic individuals who don't know anything about anything unless we kick and scream to evoke some kind (any kind) of response from them. We've even gone so far as to interview each other for the column. (Just kidding-but we've been tempted.) However, occasionally we do turn up a few gems. Here are a couple ofour favorites, which were originally edited out. "I think coed dorms are a great idea. You'll be living with women the rest of your life, you might as well start living with them now." "On Junior _Parents' Weekend, they should give us every op­portunity to get away from the juniors and their parents. The last thing we need around here is a bunch of people running around in plaid pants." "Condoms can be made available to college students on spring break. but they should not be pushed on anybody. People should have a choice." After each interview, Mike coerces, jokes, and threatens the victim to smile for the camera, and the job is done, right? Wrong! Now comes the hard part: editing. Christine and Cara sit down with the tape recorder and notebook and go through each quote, and try to write down what people seemed to want to say. Most quotes have to be cleaned up quite a bit. Here is a perfect example: "Y'know, I don't think it's real cool, that, urn, Reagan's coming to talk about a stamp. There's alot of stuff that's important to college students that he could talk about." This quote came out: "I think it's unfortunate that President Reagan will not be addressing issues that concern college students today." A typical quote takes almost ten minutes to edit. Why should it take so long to put 90 seconds of conversation into four or five sentences? Because <:.ara and Christine cannot agree on anything. They sit at the computer and argue: "That's not what he meant! Where did you get that idea from?" "The quote makes no sense if you write it that way." "Let's listen to that quote again." "Okay, you win, you were right, I was wrong. Write whatever you want. I don't care. You know more than I do about every­thing anyway." Somehow, though, the quotes get done, the photos are developed, and by 10 or 11 Wednesday night, another Photopoll is ready for printing. With all the problems that come up every week. it's a wonder that we get the thing done at all. 

.••and the current cast of 'Dallas' 

Thursday, April 7, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Sports Briefs 
Women'sBookstoreBasketballwillholdacaptains' meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Montgomery Theater at LaFortune. For more information, call Barbara at 284­5073. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo club will hold a mandatory meeting for all club members tonight with practice to follow at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at 7:00. Any questions should be directed to Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Ob­server 
Thewomen'srugbyteamwillhaveanorganizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the middle room of Farley Hall. Questions should be directed to Lauren at x3560 or Kathy at x4067. Anyone interested in helping coach the team who has playing or coaching experience also should call Lauren at x3560 or Kathy at x4067. -The Observer 
Irish Spring Runs are scheduled for Saturday, April 16, at 11 a.m. Participants can pay a $4 registration fee at the NVA office or can pay $5 the day of the event. 
Driesell returns to coaching 
Former Maryland mentor signs with James Madison 
Associated Press 
HARRISONBURG, Va. ­
Lefty Driesell, who resigned as Maryland's basketball co­ach in the aftermath of the cocaine-induced death of Len Bias, was named basketball co­ach at James Madison Wednes­day. 
"I don't have anything to prove to anybody," Driesell told a news conference punctuated by loud cheers from several hundred students. "I'm a basketball coach. I've won games, and I've won them within the NCAA rules." 
Athletic Director Dean Eh­lers and James Madison presi­dent Ronald Carrier said they believe the veteran of 26 bas­ketball seasons was their best candidate, despite the 1986 Bias affair. 

"We certainly were aware of it," Ehlers said. "I think everybody in America was aware of it. I personally don't think that was the coach's responsibilty. A coach can only provide guidance. You can't be with them 24 hours a day." 
Driesell said he missed coaching even though he en­joyed doing color commentary on televised basketball games. 
"I think I've got 10 or 15 years left to coach," said Driesell, 56. 
James Madison was 10-18last season, 5-9 in the Colonial Ath­letic Association. 
Carrier said Driesell's five­year contract is worth $65,000 a year and the James Madison Foundation will pay him $10,000 a year as an annuity toward his retirement. He will also be able to operate a bas­ketball camp. 
Driesell would not comment on reports Maryland will make up the difference between his new salary and the $150,000 a year he would receive in each of the seven years remaining in his 10-year contract. 
Driesell becomes the fifth full time coach at the Division I school since it began its men's basketball program in 1969. 
He won 524 games in nine years at Davidson and 17 years at Maryland. 

n.0....Notna Dame office, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu· cMnt c.ntw, IICCIIPta clualfled ectw.ttelng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. n.a..-Saint Y.,Y. office, located on the third floor ol H-ou-Collge Center, IICCIIPta c'-lfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday tfmlugfl Frtday. Deedllne for next~ claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda muat 
be pnlplld, either In peqon Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per live ctlalw:terl per ct.y. 
Classifieds 
Roundlrip air from S.B. lo anywhere con­FAT YOU DIDN'T DESERVE ANYTH­BROADWAY REVUE linenlal US. Expires <VI2. Call 233-3412 ING THAT I DID TO YOU. I REALLY MOCK NATIONAL CONVENTION Friday, Aprl/8 
TOOK ADVANTAGE OF YOUR FOR­COMING APRIL 11·14 8 P.M. GIVING NATURE. IT"S TOO lATE BE A PART OF IT ALLIII WASHINGTON HALL NOW. BUT I AM SORRY. 
NEW CAR 

L--_NO_T_IC_E_s___,l (...___FO_R_R_EN_T___, 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2n4 NIGHT; FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL STEREO:AMf'M,tape,bstr,40WT spkrs­
2n-1051 DAY. lARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH BROADWAY REVUE 
my car died, Greg287-3934

LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK, Friday, AprilS TYPING AVAILABLE CARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI· 8 P.M.
ugly, ugly, ugly ... IBM POXT Model 086 
lhat's mah tickeelll

287--4082 ANCES. lOCATED NEAR CAMPUS Allanle: Do you miss me yet? WASHINGTON HAll 
1OMb disk, 360K lloppy, 640K RAM and 
ugly, ugly, ugly... Quadram CGA color monilor. $1,600

AND BRIDGET'S. FURNISHED OR UN· 
ugly nan on campus ... price 1ncludes OOS 2.1. documentalion.

FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA· 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAll TION CALL 2n-7360 DAYS OR 272-........................... :ili'Nioii·;;:·----·:i'uN'io.iis·:···--·:;uNiofis; BROADWAY REVUE 
AST SuperPak utililies and SideKick. 

THANK-YOU ST. JUDE FOR ANSWER­
MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 6181 EVENINGS. LEARN HOW TO Fill OUT THE Friday, April 8 
OOS 3.2, Nolebook II, PFS:File, LOGO 
ING MY PRAYERS 
8 P.M. WASHINGTON HALLPROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BYand other software packages also avail­

Profeaaors and grad-sludenls: Pandora's HAVE SUCCESSFUL 2ND INTER­······························································ PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND
able. For more informalion, call Mike OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT

will buy your books Call 233-2342 10 VIEW? Rent Chgo 1 br eptl Big enul PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE ................................................................ 
Krager at 239-7248 weekdays !rom 8 '88-'89 SCHOOL YEAR

make an appo+nlmanl 10-5:30 7 lo aha..,. Sunny vintage ctyd bldg. TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M. IN ROOM 123 THE BASTARD .... HE DOES NOT EXIST 
a.m. lo 5 p.m. 
CioN to campua and lnexpenalve.

day&Week Hdwd lira, eat-In kit, dw, welk-In elate, NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL All 
...................... 

919 South Bend Ave-4 Bedrooma 823
baml atorage, lndry. 1/.l blk to Lk Shr MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT­TONIGHT AT BRIGETS 85 CENT 
For Sale : 2 Airplane Tix, S.Bend -Newark 

Not"' Dame Ave-8 Bedrooma 814 MICHS. AND THE GRIND 8 TO 10 Sunday May 15, 2:09pm United FH 2685,
WORDePLUS Dr, bua. 2 blk lo l tm, Wrlg, Fld. $650 TEND. 
Corby Blv~ Bedrooma 702 St. loula-ScholasiiC Typon~d111ng Incl. ht. Moat Chgo IeaNa renew 5'1, 
$75 each; Call John 271-0935. 4 Bedrooms 717 St. lou/... 5 Bedroom• ································································ 
256·30n ao call eerlyl 312-871-3397 (ND'80). JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TONIGHT AT BRIGETS THE GRIND 85 733 St. loula--8 Bedroom• 734 St. 
CENT MICHS. 8 TO 10LEARN HOW TO Fill OUT THE'82 Honda Nighthawk 650, EXCEllENT lou/... 5 Bedrooma 801 St. Loula--8

NICE FURNISHED 5 BEDROOM PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY
condition $1000. Call271-0439, Laura or

EXPERT TYPIST HOUSE, 1/.l MILE NORTH OF ND. Bedrooma CALL LAURA AT 289-6821 PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND TONIGHT AT BRIGETS THE GRIND (A
Jeff.

CAll JAN FARLEE 256-2383. GOOD AREA. 287~9. SERVICES LITTLE QUIETER) 85 CENT MICHS. 8
PLACEMENT OFFICE TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN ROOM 123 TO 10 
HOCKEY EQUIPMENT FEDERAL, STATE & CIVIL SERVICE

2 ROOMS AVAilABLE FOR RENT IN NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL
Complete outfil of hockey gear including 

Jobs $18,4 to $69,891. Immediate Cooperall pads end bib panls. Good con­
CAll 237-1849 FOR YOUR CHICAGO --ROGERS PARK AREA MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT· AT BRIGETS TONIGHT THE GRIND 85 
openlngal call JOB LINE 1-518-459­dition. Will sell separalely or as set Call
WOROPROCESSING NEEDS. $200 PER MONTH FOR MORE INFO TEND. CENT MICHS. 8 TO 10 
3811 Ext. F 794, 24hr.

CALL £284-4351. ................................................................
Malt al x2173. 

JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: LIZREILLY, STUPID. KT, THE GIRL IN JUNIORS ... JUNIORS ... JUNIORS 
WANTED APT. TO RENT. Retl.-.d LEARN HOW TO Fill OUT THE THE RAGGED JEANS, LISA. AND 
FOR SALE: A pair ol Nordica ski boots, 

Jusllhink aboul it... you are laying on the size 8. Call Jenn at 2975.
couple, former ND ateffer, wenta to PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY ELIZABETH, THANKS FOR A GREAT 
beach, trying lo get tan. You think you
rent lurnlah8d ept. lor aummer, PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND BIRTHDAY! YOU GUYS ARE THE
( LOST/FOUND I 
preferably at Unlveralty Peril Apia, but are all comfortable, and then someone PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE BESTIILOVE YOU, WENDY-Q
Chevy Impala. X3282--Sieve yells. "ll'a time to go. The boal's leaving." You're time in the sun is cut short. 

will conalder other. Wrlle with per­TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M. IN ROOM 123 ............................. 
LOST: A YELLOW JACKET IN THE ICE tinent Information to 135 L.okevlew Dr., NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL Oh how scary...~·s lhe ANTI-HONOR CREAM SHOP. REWARD FOR Mulberry, Fl 33880. MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT· OORM SHOT PARTY! We don't exectly 
WE CAN AVOID THIS UN­RETURN. CALL 23~838 OR 683-TEND. know how lo describe It, bullel's just sey
PLEASANTRY/I VOTE for lhe NASSAU 78311. 2 BEDROOM 2 BATH APARTMENT there WILL be girls allhis one. Possibly
TRIP for Senior Trip '88 FOR SUMMER SUB-lEASE, NEW TICKETS Nobody liked "The love Boat" for some, a lriumvirate bottle-off lool You know LOST N.D RING--Inacr~p~on reeds,"T J COMPLEX.POOL $500 FURNISHED. anyway... uglyness is where ... allhe Fish heads' Sunday al mid­
'­a '89'.11 lound, please call CALL 271 a slate ol mind... 
night K2003.REWARDIIIII 0764 EVENINGS. for nan, 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL JUNIORS ... JUNIORS ... JUNIORS GREG 2n-8898. SENIOR TRIP VOTES ARE DUE ugliness is KAREN AND DEE ARE HERE, LIVE LOST A BLUE ANN KLEIN SASH. LOST TODAY! a brulal realily ... AND IN PERSON, AT N.D. ALL IRISH 
RETURNING TO BRIGETS TONIGHT Help lhe class of '89 avoid ending up MEN BE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR
SATURDAY NIGHT SOMEWHERE BE­nan sauer for UMOC...
2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID THE GRIND 8 TO 10 sluck in crime-ridden Miami waiting lor a THESE TWO HOT BABES FROM OUTTWEEN GRACE HAll AND WASHING· TON HALL IF FOUND PlEASE CALL 
288-0955 big ugly boal thai cosls an e>rtra 200 EAST. HOOSIERI.AND WILL NEVER CHRIS M X1747 ................. I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA· bucks. Vote lor the NASSAU TRIP! Voles BE THE SAME. KAREN AND DEE FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· TION. Will PAY. CAll3257 ASK FOR are due by 5 p.m. today. WEEK HAS JUST BEGUN...
EVER WANTED TO BE IN THE SECRET BORHOOD 288-0955255-3684 BRIAN Who the hell is "Gopher" anyway?
FOUND· CAR AND DORM KEYS, POS· SERVICE? SIBLE ROOM IS 140 (AS PRINTED ON MOCK NATIONAL CONVENTION 1988 '""'"BADIN SPIRIT WEEK"""'
LOOKING FOR SUBLETTER(S) FOR A NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TICKETS CALL Nobody ever liked the Love Boat
DORM KEYS) OF SOME DORM. IS LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD """'BADIN SPIRIT WEEK'""" 
2 BEDROOM TURTLE CREEK KAREN £.2879 OR ERIC AT 232-1399 anyway...
FOUND AROUND JACC PARKING LOT PEOPLE WHO WOULD LIKE TO USE """'BADIN SPIRIT WEEK'"'"" TOWNHOUSE OVER SUMMER. FULLY lei's face It: Gopher was a dork, Julie's
AREA ClAIM IN LOST & FOUND ON A LITTLE "INTELLIGENCE" (VERY """"BADIN SPIRIT WEEK"'""' 
FURNISHED. REAL CHEAP. IF INTER­a coke-head, The Caplain was bald, his
1ST FlA. LAFORTUNE LITTLE), HUMOR, AND MUSCLE AS A '"""BADIN SPIRIT WEEK""'" 
ESTED CALL JOSH AT 1622 OR TIM daughler one ol the ugliesl women on SECRET SERVICE AGENT DURINGAT 1604. earth, and lhe Doc a loser. The only cool 
FOUND· I lound a pair of prescription THE EVENT. so If your an expert with a Need aummer worl<? Apply In peraon. 
guy on the ship was Issac --and he left

glasses 1n the sludenl park1ng lol by the walkie talkie or just have dreams of Godfather Pizza, 52920 U.S. 31 North.
PERSONALS 

lha love Boat to work in NASSAU. Issac
aladlum (d1 ?). They were grayiSh-black wearing a dark blue suit and looking Im­
said, "I had lo gel oul ollhal slupid cruise 

and b1locals. Call Scolt 1189. P.S. you portant BE AT OUR MEETING AT FOR SALE: A pair of Nordica ski boots, left lhem on lhe hood ol my car 8:30PM THUR APRIL 7 305 LAFOR­size 8. Call Jenn at 2975.
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, deal. I heard thai the class ol '89 was CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE headed toward the beach In NASSAU. I TUNE QUESTIONS OR PROBLEMSWANTED BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. • wanl to party with them. CAll 239-6283. JllllENNERT'S BIRTHDAY Claaa of '89: Party In NaaMu: Vote 
was yesterday. bulshe'llslillaccept ANYFound· A poem credlled lo Tim RICe en· todayIllCOED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO sort ol Happy Birthday wishes, etc. in lilled "Nobody's S1de". I piCked up a SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS ROCKIES 1986. WHITEWATER RAF­COKE IS IT Room 8 Lyons or by phone al 3033. (You

xeroxed copy ol II in Riley Hall over 1wo An Aparthied Information Nighl will be
Counselors. 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL· KNEW this would be Isle didn'l you Jill!) 
years ago. It anyone haa any informatiOn camp, Massachusetts Barkshires, WSI, LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. held on Monday, April 11 al 8:30pm in leading lo lhe peel in quesl1on, conlac1 P.E.'s party room. All are inv~edl
arts & crafts, lennis, all land and waler me 1mmedlaleiy; I've written music to ac­
sports, gymnastics, drama, piano-play for YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les· UGlY''MAN'ON··c·AMPii~i?··rr··HAS'To ""SOPHOMORES"""" APPLICATIONS company lhe lyric and desire permission shows. judo, photography, dance. com­bians al Notre Dam&St.Mary's College Do you have questions about the MOCK BE T.J. SMITH FOR JUNIOR ClASS ADVISORY 
lo record It 1n a s1ud10 lhls summer. Call pulers, naiUre. wilderness, model rock­NATIONAL CONVENTION? OFFICE
P.O. Box 194, Noire Dame, IN 46556. COUNCIL ARE NOW AVAilABLE THEY 32041.!206 and ask lor JeH. HOURS WED&THUR&FRI 305 LAFOR­
airy, guitar, radio, video, archery, year­Conlidenliallly Guaranleed. endad .......................................................... CAN BE PICKED UP AT THE SECRE· book, woodworking, RN and lypist. Write: TUNE 3-8PM £239-6283 Am I a dele­Sam TARY'S DESK 2ND FLOOR I.A FOR· Helpl I losl a plastiC I.D. holder 1n N. gale? for which stale? what's going on?
Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd, Sludenls: Sell your unwanted class lis clear and cooling Ieday. No real traHic TUNE BE A PART OF MAKING JUNIOR 
dimng hall or O'Shag Wed. Balore call Call or slop by WE"LL HELP/
Easlchesler, NY 10707 or books lor $$ al Pandora's Books. 808 snarls. I hope lunch is delicious. Mine YEAR GREAT! "WE NEED OVERSEAS Easier Conlalned I.D. , Delex, Bank 9t477B9406. Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week was free. I still don't know why I'm here, REPRESENTATIVES, SO LONOON 
Card, Drivers' hacense. and cash I don't LIVE OC FOR SUMMER TURTLE233-2342 bul I'm jusl giving lhe illusion ... AND AU FOREIGN STUDIES STU­care aboullhe cash. lllound, Please call & NEEDED CREEK APT FOR RENT BELOW COST 
WAITRESSES WAITERS lD Inc. DENTS FOR NEXT YEAR ARE WEL· 
4515 or relum lo 740 P.E. ll's important. AND FURNISHEDII CALL CHRIS 272­
Flexible hours The Dock: 616-699-7466. 
SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE I Apr. 15-17. COME TO APPlYl Used Books 50-90% off. New books 30% 
8689 PLEASE SElL ME GRADUATION TICK­off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off ND sliM'M"iifi.:io8s--;;oii..n:iii..ii'NvifioN: THE GRIND ETS. $$BUCKS INVOLVED$$! CALL Ave. 10-5:30 7 days/ week. 233-2342 MENT THE GRIND
EE Benquet lOST· BEIGE, IRISH CABLEKNIT 
MARC AT 288-7105 ( aka Browme point Fesl ) 
EARN S2500-$3~PIRGa hiring THE GRIND
SWEATER IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON 
............................................................... 
ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1sl • Tues., April 12 summer atllff In 80 cltlea THE GRIND3<26. CALL 2n-2142. 
HELP MY BROTHER SEE ANDREW Source Bank will finance your car pur­• Tix available in ECE office for $1Yslud Including Boaton, DC, Chicago, THURSDAY AT BRIDGET"S .85 MICH'S YOUNGII Need 2 gradualion tix chase For more inlormation call Ellen and $12-taculty. llerl<eley, Boulder, Phll8delphl•,
I LOST A FINE GOLD CHAIN WITH $$$$$$$$$ Call John 1840 Santa or Jell Corey at 236-2200 • All siUdenl, facully, and staff gEEks Seattle. FLOOR I.AIMBEER'S STUNNING UP·FOUR CHARMS ON MONDAY, MARCH 
............................. SET ON TUESDAY WAS JUST THE
invited . Ca-r opportunltlea alae evellable.
28. Looking for riders lo SPRINGFIELD MA Bartles Imports BMWMAZDMIW All Call K•te 81 1--800-622-2202. BEGINNING. WATCH FOR THE CIN­
THIS NECKlACE REALLY MEANS A 
area April 15-17 Call Sean 271-9441 JETTAS al invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends DERELLA TEAM OF THELOT TO ME IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 
April 30th IEEE Election sign-up deadline: TOURNAMENT TO GRIND OUT AN­AMY AT X2666 
Fri.. April 8 Am~---c'Ai:iPus···o:;:s···:aoii-.iCi...oul-OTHER VICTORY, NEXT TUESDAY. SUMMER JOBS Contact Jill lennert x3033 or Bill Bus,NEss SALE FEATURING 300 WT AND MAGIC'S BACKIII All LAN[}WATER SPORTS McCarthy x1150. JBl SPEAKERS AND DENON POWER PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK AMP -ASKING $1,000. IF INTERESTED So lhe Florida boy turns inlo a HOT Cal· FOR SALE MOUNTAINS IN THIS EXCELLENT INVESTMENT ifomia man on July 18th I CON­LOST: BEIGE PATTERNED UBREli.A CAll COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­heard about the MOCK CONVENTION CALL £.2318 AND ASK FOR JOE. GRATULATIONS ROGER ·San Fran­WITH DARK WOOD HANOLE. LOST INGS 914--3814224 and wished you had signed up? THERE cisco will never be lhe sarne!lll SOMETIME THE WEEK BEFORE GOV'T SEIZED HOMES $1.00. IS STill A CHANCEIII The CONVEN­BROADWAY REVUE EASTER BREAK, PROBABLY SOME­(U Repair) BUY Propertlea lor b.tek TION is looking lor a lew more interesled Friday, April 8 00 YOU NEED A CAR? '80 Datsun 210 WHERE IN O'SHAG. GREAT SEN­TAXES! Ride lor 2 needed to NYCNorthem NJ people! Sign up in the Sludenl Govern­8 P.M. tor sale. Dependable, CHEAP. good me­TIMENTAl VALUE. PlEASE CAll Info, REPO Uatlng 1-518-4511-3546 area lor Easter Break. Will share ex­man! offices or 305 Lafortune(3-8pm) DO WASHINGTON HAll chanical condition. Call Bert> 233-8597 LAUREN x3560 IF FOUND. EXT H-794 24 Hra. penses and driving. call 2282. IT TODAYIIIIIIIIII for delails. 

• 

page 12 Thursday, April 7, 1988
The Observer 

Women's tennis falls to NU 
By FRANK PASTOR "We played an excellent Soyoung Lee 6-2,4-6,6-1 in the Sports Writer match, " said Gelfman. "We number-four position, fifth­did an excellent job at pushing seeded Natalie Illig fell to 
The Notre Dame women's them (Northwestern) to their tennis team dropped its match limit. However, I was disap­Wendy Nelson 6-0,6-4, and to Nortwestern 6-3 in the Eck pointed with individual points Cathy Bradshaw dropped her Tennis Pavilion on Wednesday of the game, of being up in a match to Cindy Galloway 6-1,6­afternoon. . set and not being able to close 3 at number-six . 
Inclement weather forced it out." . Notre Dame also picked up a the Irish to play (8-13) indoors, The Irish won only two of victory in doubles competition, where they were defeated by their six singles matches, gar­as the tandem of Cahill and the Wildcats (3-12). The match nering victories at the number­Dasso defeated Schuschel and was originally scheduled to be one and number-three posi­Willey 6-3,6-1 in the top posi­played outside on Courtney tions. Top-seeded CeCe Cahill tion. Courts. defeated Christina Schuschel6­
Notre Dame, has never 3,7-6 (7-3) and third-seeded Lohrer and Illig lost to the beaten Northwestern in eight Alice Lohrer put away Kristen team of Staples and Tonya attempts. Nonetheless, Irish Willey 6-4,0-6,6-3. Evans 6-3,6-3 at number-two coach Michele Gelfman In other singles action, Mic­doubles, while third-seeded believes that the team per­helle Dasso lost to Julie Staples Pacella and Bradshaw were fomed well for the most part 6-3,6-1 at number-two, Kim . outscored by Galloway and Lee on Wednesday. Pacella was defeated by 6-2,5-7,7-6(7-3). 
Baseball roundup 
Toronto, 
l 
Associated Press 
I 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Rookie catcher Pat Borders had three 
hits and drove in five runs in 
his first major-league game, and George Bell went 5-for-5 and scored three times as the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Kansas City Royals 11-4 Wed­nesday night. 
Borders tripled two runs home in his first career at-bat in a four-run first inning. He singled with the bases loaded in the third inning to drive in two more off Royals starter Charlie Leibrandt, who gave up six runs and lasted just three innings. 
Borders had another run­scoring single in the fifth off Ted Power. 
Bell, who hit three home runs in Monday's opener as Toronto's designated hitter
... played left field after Lloyd 
Moseby was a late scratch be­cause of a sore hip. 
Bell's three singles and two doubles gave him eight hits in nine at-bats this season. He also drove in his fifth run. 
Winning pitcher Mike 
conditions, the Bookstore Bas­Flanagan allowed two runs, 
ketball Committee seemed to which both came in the first in­
Shot 
have everything under control. ning, and six hits in six innings. 
continued from page 16 
The only problem was filling a runaway for the Uecker out score sheets. The rain ren­Yankees 5, Twins 3 team, possibly because We'll dered all attempts at writing do a Shot. .. did just that after useless, forcing the Bookstore NEW YORK-Rickey Hen­each hoop, sprinting to the staff to make do without derson's tie-breaking two-run sidelines for some yet-to-be­knowing what players scored double in the seventh inning determined beverage intake. what points, and in some cases helped the New York Yankees That seemed to slow the team without knowing the final to a 5-3 victory Wednesday over a bit down the stretch. scores. the Minnesota Twins. 
Joining these once-in-a­lifetime stars in the round of 
AP PllOIO 

Just as Calgary's Hakan Loob has a hold on Dave Taylor of the Los Angeles Kings In this regular season game, the Flames throttled the Kings 9-2 In Wednesday's Stanley Cup playoff action. Other winners Wednesday Included Philadelphia, the New York Islanders, Montreal, Boston, Toronto, St. Louis and Edmonton. 
256 were several seeded teams. The Adworks' All-Stars, romped on Yeah Boy!! 21-9. The All-Stars, who were ex­pected to have Irish center Gary Voce on their team, will 


not and instead have varsity 
Summer Sessions

football player Ricky Watters. Last year's Mr. Bookstore 
at

John Buscher scored 6 for the All-stars and Matt Dingens added 5. 
Indiana University at South Bend 

The Kinkoids, who played last year as 4 Fags and a 
May 16-June 27

Zhambie, moved closer to their Final 16 seeding by beating Cocky Frosh 21-11. Another 
July 5 -August 15 seeded team, Minahoonies, put away the Bad Company 21-10. 
For your copy of the schedule

The Bad Co. was sorely out­matched on the boards, as the Minahoonies front line of foot­
call 237-4455 ball stars Tom Gorman, Tom 
IUSB Admissions Office

Byrne and Pete Graham skied above the opposition time and 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue 

again. 
·~ 
Despite the horrible weather 
Falcons sign Bruce 
Associated Press worst record in the league 
last year at 3-12, decided 

SUWANEE, Ga.-The At­March 30 to select the 6-foot­lanta Falcons, who have the 5, 231-pound Bruce. Atlanta No. 1 selection in the April had also contemplated 24 NFL draft, on Wednesday taking Reisman Trophy win­announced the signing of ner Tim Brown, a wide Auburn linebacker Aundray receiver from Notre Dame, Bruce to a five-year con­or Nebraska defensive end tract. Neil Smith. 
Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but Bruce's agent, Bruce, an All-Richard Woods, said he was Southeastern Conference se­"satisfied with the con­lection as a senior, had 81 tract." tackles, eight sacks and 
The contract was believed three interceptions last to be for more than $3.5 mil­season in helping the SEC lion, including a signing champion Tigers gain a bonus of about $1 million. Sugar Bowl berth against 
The Falcons, who had the Syracuse. 
Bell alarm Royals 
Cubs 3, Braves 0 games, a two-run shot in a three-run first inning, leading 
ATLANTA-Greg Maddux the Houston Astros to a 5-1 vic­pitched a three-hitter and Dave tory over San Diego Wednes­Martinez's RBI single broke a day. scoreless game in the seventh 
Phils 6, Pirates 5

inning Wednesday as the Chicago Cubs beat the Atlanta PHILADELPHIA-Juan Braves 3-0. Samuel doubled with two outs 
in the 14th inning and scored Red Sox 6, Tigers 5 on Milt Thompson's single Wednesday night, giving the 
BOSTON-Brady Anderson Philadelphia Phillies a 6-5 vic­scored the tie-breaking run on tory over the Pittsburgh a bases loaded passed ball by Pirates. Detroit catcher Mike Heath as the Boston Red Sox rallied for Angels 4, Chisox 2 four runs in the eighth inning for a 6-5 victory Wednesday CHICAGO-Bill Buckner's 
over the Tigers. tie-breaking two-run pinch single in the top of the lOth in­Mariners 6, A's 5 ning gave the California Angels a 4-2 victory over the Chicago OAKLAND, Calif.-Ken White Sox on Wednesday night. Phelps broke a 5-5 tie in ther--------' sixth inning with a sacrifice ny, Allied ,
and the Seattle Mariners beat f f the Oakland Athletics 6-5 Wed-, Sh• • 
nesday for their first victory of' 1 p pIng t the season. tLet us pack and ship yourf Tribe 5, Texas 1 felectronic equipmentf tstereo, etc. direct to you1
ARLINGTON, Texas-Left­bander Greg Swindell, makingfhome by UPS -Emery. f 
his first !lppearance since ~ast t 219-27 7-761 6 ' June, pttched a seven-httter . ' and Joe Carter drove in twot Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fn f 
runs as the Cleveland Indianstuniversity Commons' beat the Texas Rangers 5-l . ' Wednesd::1y night. f SR 23 &. Htckory f 
Astros 5, Padres 1 t Western Union t 
HOUSTON-Glenn Davis hitl Available t his second home run in as many· -------­
Saint Mary's College invites you to attend a one-day seminar (1 0 am-3pm) on 
WHAT'S RIGHT 
WITH 

THE CATHOLIC CHURCH? 
On April 9, 1988 with Sister Margaret Brennan, I.H.M. Professor of Pastoral Theology, Regis College, Toronto and The Most Reverend Rembert G. Weakland, O.S.B. Archbishop of Milwaukee 
at Carrol Hall Auditorium, Madeleva Hall Telephone: 219-284-4636 
~~~~~CENTER lOR SPIRI'l'UAJJfY ~~~~ SAINT MARY'S COI.J.EGE 
----------------------------------------~ ----­
Thursday, April 7, 1988 
Cards 
continued from page 16 
which, the Cards have an ex­one in Bob Horner, who hit home runs in Atlanta (and Japan) but won't in cozy little Busch Stadium. 
The Cardinal brass obviously did not want to win big again in 1988, as evidenced by the ef­fort they put into re-signing last year's answer to a savior, Jack Clark. The Yankees, in that other league, have Clark's 35 home run and 106 RBI poten­tial. The Cards have a man coming off a season with the Yakult Swallows. To repeat, St. Louis won't. 
The Montreal Expos seem like a logical choice, but Montreal is in Canada, and even the Canadians don't root for the Expos. Montreal couldn't win with the two best outfielders in the league (Andre Dawson and Tim Raines), so how can the Expos be expected to win with only one? 
Raines is the best player in baseball, but the Expos don't have the lineup to back him up, although Andres Galarraga is probably the best player you've never heard of. But Montreal is not exactly a media hotbed. 
The bullpen is strong, the starters are questionable, the Expos are destined to watch the playoffs from their armchairs. 
This is a rebuilding year for the Pittsburgh Pirates. (Every 
see PIRATES, page 14 
Yanks 
continued from page 16 
Yankee regulars, if they can survive their owner's heat and their manager's daily antics, have the talent to bring the American League East title back to the Big Apple. 
Slugger Jack Clark adds more power to a lineup with much more punch than anyth­ing that will ever come out of Steinbrenner's mouth. Don Mattingly is the best first baseman in baseball, Ricky Henderson combines speed and power and Randolph has come alive near the top of the batting order. 
The Yankee pitchers are far from overpowering, but no team has the arms to stop 1988 
A's 
continued from page 16 
season) and Mark McGwire (49 HR>, and Oakland's Terry Steinbach (16 HR,.284) could be the best catcher in the AL after only one season. 
Welch shores up a question­able pitching staff which fea­tures 20-game winner Dave Stewart and little else. However, that should be enough to hold off the con­tenders. 
Close behind will be the pow­erful Texas Rangers, whose let's-try-to-outscore-'em phi­losophy may finaHy pay off this year if it can find some semblance of a pitching rota­tion. The Rangers' outfield could be the most dangerous in the division, with Larry Par­rish (32 HR), Ruben Sierra (30 HR) and Pete Incaviglia (27 HR> returning for their third year together. Pete O'Brien (23 HR, 88 RBI, .286) is solid at first base for the Rangers. But Texas needs an kinds of pitch­ing help to back up amazing knuckler Charlie Hough (19­13). Leading candidates Jose Guzman (14-14, 4.67) and Bobby Witt (8-10, 4.91) will have to pick up the slack and the staff will have to aHow fewer than last year's league­leading 760 walks in order to keep up with the A's. 
You can't write off the World Champion (I can't help but snicker) Minnesota Twins, es­peciaHy with their patented dome-field advantage. But I wouldn't bet on a repeat per-
from resembling 1987 in run production. Even Steinbrenner and Mar­tin might have to smile in 1988. 
The Toronto Blue Jays, after blowing a 3 V2 game lead in the final week of last season, could find themselves in the hunt again this year. 
The heart of the Jays' lineup is one of the best around, with Lloyd Moseby, Jesse Barfield and George Ben leading the way. Fred McGriff and Cecil Fielder are promising replace­ments for Willie Upshaw at first, and Tony Fernandez can be a great shortstop. 
If starter Dave Stieb re­emerges and Jimmy Key picks up where he left off, a strong bullpen featuring Tom Henke and Mark Eichhorn should be able to hold leads better than 
The Observer 
formance from the Twinkies unless someone steps forward to back up Frank Viola and the 
a~ing, oft-mediocre Bert Blyleven on the mound. 
Sure, they get hitting from Kent Hrbek, Gary Gaetti, Kirby Puckett and Co., but they did it with mirrors last year, folks. No higher than third without more pitching and an occasional win on the road. The Homerdome will be slightly less intimidating this time around. 
From there, things take a nosedive. The Kansas City Royals may be in it for a while, and Bo Jackson (22 HR) will make things controversial, if not terribly productive. But outside of Danny Tartabull (34 HR, 101 RBI, .309) and AH-Star Kevin Seitzer ( .323), the Royals are in pretty dire straits. 
The California Angels have descended to earth rapidly since being one strike away from the pennant in '86, and, barring an incredible pitching revival (say, from Mike Witt and Kirk McCaskill) and con­tributions from a geriatric starting lineup, they'H stay there. 
The Seattle Mariners and Chicago White Sox will battle for the basement. I chaHenge anyone to name 10 Mariners, but anonymous Seattle some­how seems to avoid last place. That leaves Chicago, which has a decent nucleus, but expect a lengthy wait for it to gel. Harold Baines can't keep the Sox afloat forever. 
the team did in the last week of 1987. 
The Detroit Tigers' starting rotation of Jack Morris, Doyle Alexander, Frank Tanana and Walt Terre]] is a good one. If Willie Hernandez can find some of his old magic and a crop of young players can take up the slack left in the lineup by the trade of Kirk Gibson, the Bengals could make a run. 
A lot of people are picking the Boston Red Sox to win it all. Lee Smith in the bullpen will most certainly improve the Sox' chances, and Wade Boggs has a way of making things happen in Fen way. 
But too many young players will have to come through for the Red Sox to be in the race this year. 
The Milwaukee Brewers had a big head start last year and finished third. The head start (20-3) will not happen again, and the third-place finish is a longshot, too. Young talent abounds, but the Brewers do not have the consistency to keep up in the AL East. 
The Cleveland Indians did not make the cover of Sports Illustrated's preview issue this year. That, and the absolute haplessness of the Baltimore Orioles, might be enough to keep the Tribe out of the cellar. 
. 


AP Photo Los Angeles manager Tommy Lasorda Is asking Santa Claus for two gifts: a white Christmas and a Dodger blue October. 
l• 
sion champions found the ~ 
J
leadoff hitter they were looking for when they acquired centerfielder Brett Butler. 
In fact, the Giants probably have the most overall talent in the division with hitters like Will Clark, Jeffrey Leonard and Candy Maldonado in the lineup, a balanced starting rotation that stars Dave Dravecky and Rick Reuschel, and a solid bul­lpen with Don Robinson and Craig Lefferts. 
It's a team that looks like an obvious favorite, but I'm still a little leery about this bunch. The Dodgers will be just a little hungrier, and that will be enough to have the Giants hum­ming the blues this year. 
Does anybody remember the Cincinnati Reds? Just about a year ago, centerfielder Eric Davis was off to a phenomenal start and everyone was hand­ing the Reds the division title in April. 
By the end of the season, Cin­cinnati was barely over .500 and living testimony to the fact that you can't win without a single quality starter. 
The Reds made some trades for pitchers, but it won't help. Dealing disgruntled Dave Parker to Oakland will help the team attitude, but neither Jose Rijo or Tim Birtsas is ready to make a difference. Former Royal Danny Jackson has shown flashes of brilliance, but he never could win consistently at Kansas City. 
Of course, if you want start­ing pitching, take a look at the Houston Astros. With Mike Scott and Nolan Ryan, the Astros arguably have the two 



~~ l 
nutc;P.nt.c; 

BRC>ADVVAV 
IN CONCERT 
a review of broadway's best songs 
See student singers in action! 
Friday, April 8, 8:00pm Washington Hall  

Dodgers 
continued from page 16 
But in return, the Dodgers 
received several impact 
players. Reliever Jesse Orosco 
comes from the New York 
Mets, and he will work in the 
bullpen with former Oakland 
closer Jay Howell. Orosco and 
Howell had as many saves last 
season as the entire Dodger 
team, and will try not to add 
their names to a list of poor LA 
relievers since the ill-fated 
Steve Howe era (Ken Howell, 
Tom Niedenfeur, Don Stan­
house, Ed Vande Berg, etc.). 
The Dodgers also acquired 
former Oakland shortstop 
Alfredo Griffin. 
Coming from the free-agent market are outfielders Mike Davis and Kirk Gibson, who combined for over 40 homers and 150 RBI last season. Davis and Gibson will work with John Shelby, Pedro Guerrero and Mike Marshall to form a sud­denly potent offensive attack. 
Granted, the Dodgers have plenty of question marks. Any team that features the defen­sive talents of Guerrero, Sax and Marshall in its infield must have some question marks. But the improvements in hitting and the bullpen should make up for any defensive lapses and bring the playoffs to southern California. 
Most of the predictors have 
the playoffs going to the nor­
thern part of the state, where 
the San Francisco Giants take 
residence. The defending divi­
r-:~~;:::~---================t best starters in the National 
League. But after that, the 
rotation is a mystery, as Jim Deshaies is coming off rotator cuff surgery and Bob Knepper and Joaquin Andujar try to sal­vage their careers after hor­rendous 1987 seasons. 
Dave Smith might be the best reliever in basebaH, and he will help keep Houston in conten­tion for a while. But the Astros do not have enough hitting to make a serious run at a division title. 
Oops, I almost forgot about the San Diego Padres and At­lanta Braves. Wen, now that I 
think  about  it,  maybe  that  
wasn't  such  a  big oversight  
after all.  

Thursday, April 7, 1988
The Observer 

NCAA gets tough on fights 
New rule formed to curb scuffles in college basketball 



i• 
At" 1-'tloto 

t 
If Assistant Sports Editor Theresa Kelly's predictions are on the mark, Bob Dernler and the Philadelphia Phlllles will have plenty to 
smile about by the end of the season.
t 
t Pirates 
continued from page 13 
year since 1979 has been a rebuilding year for the Pirates.) They're the team of the nineties, but this is still the eighties. The pitching staff is young and needs time to ma­ture. The position players are young and need time to mature. That translates into another Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. ­
College players who get in­volved in fights during games next season will risk losing their eligibility for the rest of the season under get-tough measures announced Wednes­day. 
"We're interested in mini­mizing the ugly scenes. One ugly scene is too many as far as I'm concerned," Ed Steitz, secretary-editor of the NCAA men's Basketball Rules Com­mittee said at a news confer­ence. "We cannot afford to let anything mar this great game of college basketball.'' 
Steitz said following the com­mittee's two-day meeting that players suspended for "being involved in fighting" would have no way to appeal. 
Fights made headlines throughout the past season. There were none during the NCAA tournament, after NCAA executive director Dick Schultz warned that any player fighting would be suspended for the rest of the tournament. 
The policy announced Wed­nesday specifies that a player involved in a fight will be ejected from the game and placed on probation. 
"The second time that indi­vidual is involved in a fight during the season, he will be ejected from the game and suspended from participation in his team's next game," Steitz said. 
"If that player is involved in a third fight during the season, he will be suspended for the remainder of the season. If available, and deemed neces­sary, television monitors may be used to determine those in­dividuals involved in a fight," he said. 
Steitz also said any bench personnel other than the head coach who enters the court during a fight is subject to dis­qualification for the remainder of a game. 
"We've got to knock this fighting off. I don't think we've pushed the panic button," Steitz said. "I think we have to have machinery in place to serve as a deterrent." 
''No matter how bad they are, Grandma loves to hear the latest jokes.'' 
Some coaches immediately raised questions about the new rule. 
"I would like to see an appeal available," said Gary Williams of Ohio State. 
"This is a lot different than a traveling call, or maybe a fifth foul called on the wrong player. Those are a part of bas­ketball. But this is not. I just want it to be just. If a mistake is made, it should be correc­tible. '' 
Lon Kruger of Kansas State said, "I think anything we can do fo minimize the number of occasions that are not healthy for the game is good for the game. And I think putting a rule in place would be a move in that direction." 
But Kruger also saw the pos­sibility of problems arising. 
"There would be a need to define what constitutes a fight so we can be consistent with enforcement. Does a shove one game get the same thing as an all out fisticuff in the next?" he asked. 

second-division finish, unless the boys mature fast. 
Catcher Mike LaValliere is another one of those players who had a great 1987 but you probably didn't know it, and the pitching staff is going to be solid. But when your aged vet­eran is Andy VanSlyke, you're going to need at least another year. 
That leaves the Chicago Cubs and the Philadelphia Phillies in the race for the pennant. 
The Cubs have the best start­ing pitcher in baseball, Rick Sutcliffe. They have last year's MVP, Dawson, leading a pow­

• erful attack tailored for Wrigley Field (but not many 
You miss her sparkling 

other parks). They have an un­
Sl'IN.' of humor. She misses

derrated defense and a top­
you :tnd your jokes. En:n the 

notch bench. New manager 
Don Zimmer has plenty to 
had ones. That\ one good 
reason to cilllong distance.

smile about, at least until 
AT&T Long Distance Sen·ice 

someone mentions pitching. 
Sutcliffe can't pitch every 
is anotlll'r good rL·ason. Ik' 

day, although that might be the 
ctLI.~e itco.~ts k.~s than \'Oll 

Cubs' best bet. These are the 
think to !war ~·our gran(\.

Cubs, and it hasn't been 40 
motlll'r start to giggle hc­

years since they last won 
l(>rL' youc'\'L'll get to the 

anything, so they won't this 
punch line. 
year, either. 
So whenewr You miss

The Phillies will win the divi­
her Ltughtcr, bring. a ~mile

sion only because there is no 
to her bee· with AT&T Reach

reason why they shouldn't, un­
out and touch someone~

less you count the minor fact 
that Lee Elia is the manager. 
The Phils have plenty of speed 
If You'd like to know more and power and a much­
~thinn AT&T products and 

improved pitching staff. All 
services, like the AT&T Card, 

that stands in the way is a his­
callus at I HOO 222-0300. 

tory of playing below potential. 
With Schmidt, Samuel, 
Hayes, Parrish and Bradley 
providing the punch and Cy 
Young winner Steve Bedrosian 
piling up the saves, the Phillies 
are the team to beat in the NL 

East. 
ATs.T 
The right choice. 

The Observer 

Thursday 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.: Brazilian Lunch, Center for Social Concerns. 
Noon: Thomas White Center on Law and Government Lecture, "The Moral Delegitimation of Law," by Father John Neuhaus, Center on Religion and Society, New York, Room 220 Law School Courtroom. 
1-2 p.m.: GALA-Kelogg Graduate Student Workshop, "U.S. Policy Toward Latin America: A Congressional Candidate's Perspective," by Tom Ward, Dem­ocratic candidate for the third congressional district, Room 131 Decio. 
4 p.m.: Kellogg Institute and Department of Anthropology Seminar, "Music and Society Among Brazilian Indians," by Professor Anthony Seeger, Indiana University, Bloomington, Room 131 Decio. 
6:30p.m.: SMC Department of Government Lecture, "Women and the U.S. Constitution," by Karen O'Connor, Emory University, Carroll Auditorium. 
7 p.m.: Presentation, "Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out the Profile Form." Students of all majors are encouraged to attend, by Paul Reynolds, associate director of Career and Placement Services, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7:30p.m.: Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 Center for Continuing Education. 
8 p.m.: Hesburgh Program in Public Service Lecture, "Shutting the Door to College: The Decline of Minority and Low-Income Students in the 1980s," by Gary Orfield, University of Chicago, Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
8 p.m.: African Studies Biko-Steward Film Series Theme: Woman in Africa, films: "With These Hands: Women in Agriculture" and "Asante Market Women: Power in the City," Center for Social Concerns. 
8-9:30 p.m.: Knights of the Immaculata Film, "Medjugorje," Library Auditorium. 10 -11 p.m.: Campus Perspectives talkshow on Mock Convention and presiden­tial politics, WVFI-AM 640, host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Meatball Hero Cal zone Soft Tacos Salisbury Steak 
Fried Chicken Potato Pancakes Cheese and Vegetable Pot Deli Bar Pie 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Ritzy 5 Fellow 9 Notes 
14 Raines or 

Logan 15 Swiss river 16 Lithe 17 European 18 Excite 19 Fr. general 20 Piece by 54A 23 Become 
enraged 24 Red dye: var. 27 Sailing term 28 Resort 30 Lachrymose 
drop 31 Ancient 

chariot 34 Quiet 36 Pedro's uncle · 37 Jaded 38 Bon ­
(elegant) 39 Moslem officials © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 41 Drilling tool 
All Rights Reserved 
42 "Watch on 



the-" 44 Eur. kite 45 Ludwig or 

Jannlngs 47 Crude metal 48 "Purloined 
Letter" author 49 Ruler 51 Calls 54 Bandleader-
composer 58 Polynesian 
60  Duck  
61  Breathing  
sound  

62 TV's "Kate and-" 63 Sedaka or Diamond 
2 Earthen pots 3 Quench 4 "I Only -for 
You" 5 Nut 6 Despised 7 Solo 8 Saucy 9 Port. territory 
10 Conceited one 
11 "-Moocher" (Calloway song) 
12 Ancient 13 Observe 21 Merchant 22 Pukka 25 Nymph 26 Unevenl1 
64  Mil. addresses  edged  40  His theme  
65 Irks  28  Rock  was  "Smoke  
66 Avant-garde  29 Conifer  Rings"  
67 Cravings  31  Receded  43 Table d'­ 
32 VIscous  46 Annie  - 
DOWN  33 Song by 54A  48 Eastern city  
1 Troublesome  34 Move  50 Heavens  
one  35 Pond cousin  51  Braid  

Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
.,./1Nf? If PI~ BefORe 

THERe'S II THEYU NICE I Wf/K£ .. t.OI?P, f'OR. COMPANY IN COMEOV~f?. /Pel/ ... CI?YIN' OriT t.O!JfJ... ft.OR.If?ll 7HI!T fiNf? TIIK£ HIM YOU CllN 
I

Wlt.L FKCEZ£ -11f(Y llWI!Y f(}f{ f(JT f/£70 Yf)(Jf< PET. f'ROCE5SIN& IJPON me 1/FTei?H£ MIINTeL
\ 
CI?OAKS fOf{ er£f{NITY. 
L \ 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
IT'S B£0.\ISE I-IC>T P..IR RISES. 
~E. SUN'S HOT IN 1\\E MIDOl£. 0~ 1\iE Df\t ~ IT RISES 1-\IG\-\ IN 11\E '5~'(. \ 





Professor Feldman, traveling back In time, gradually succumbs to the early stages of non-culture shock. 
52 Encampment 
of troops  
53  Lawmaker  
55  Volcano  
56  Evil grin  
57  Lock  - 
58  Deface  
59  Ms MacGraw  




.... _ 
Sports
Thursday, April 7, 1988 page 1 
Turbulent weather causes wild, wacky Bookstore day 
By JIM WINKLER ther and a lack of experience on the part of Sports Writer their opponents to gain the second shutout of Bookstore Basketball XVII, beating the Sometimes you've got to take the bad with Spanish-speaking Bonita Banana 21 to nada. the good. Bumblebee forward John Albertini pointed out 
If any lesson was learned in yesterday's that the Bees have not yet been scored upon Bookstore Basketball action, that was it. Sure, this year, winning by forfeit in the preliminary Bookstore is fun and exciting and full of round. springtime, but yesterday was a cold reminder "They had one shot that bounced around the of what the South Bend weather can do to a rim," said Albertini. "We all watched it, hoping jump shot. it would miss. We wanted the shutout so we 


could get in the paper. Luckily the shot missed." In the last game of the day, A Pilot and 4 Guys Who Can Fly soared past Da' Step­,. brothers of Manhood, 21-16. In a game that seemed to last forever, A Pilot. ..gained an early 
i 
While several seeded teams survived the lead and never lost it. Solid rebounding from onslaught of precipitation, some of the other Jim Fleisher and Chris Weppner enabled Pete squads settled for long games of missed lay-ups, Skiko to score several fast break lay-ups. 
desperation half-court shots, or in one case, a After a great deal of running up and down coin toss. the court, Fleisher popped in a short jumper to 
In one of the most creative endings to a win the game. Mter the game, he commented Bookstore game, The Wedge, a Hoosier, and 3 on the weather. Other Lame Guys beat 4 Guys From Air Loomer "Can I say 'it sucked' in the paper? Yes? Then in a coin toss. That's no misprint. A coin toss. it sucked." 
With the score stuck at 14-10 in a driving rain, His teammate Mike Napier added, "The wea­both teams decided that it just wasn't fun ther in the beginning of The Wizard of Oz was anymore. After quick consultation with the better than this.'' spectators on hand and the Bookstore Basket­Bob Uecker ... outplayed a tough We'll do a ball staff, the teams decided to settle the score Shot Every Time We Score, winning 21-17 be­with the flip of a coin. The Wedge... was able to hind the passing and shooting of Matt Marrow. make the call that counted, advancing to the What began as a close game started to become round of 256. 
The Bumblebees took advantage of the wea-see SHOT, page 12 
Linebacker coaches Stewart, Alvarez like what they see 
By MARTY STRASEN linebackers go hand in hand in Frank Starns and Darrell The battle for playing time playing basketball over spring Sports Editor a lot of ways," Stewart ex­"Flash" Gordon, both of whom at inside linebacker already is break. . plains. "It's a lot of the same will return as fifth-year seniors an interesting one. Mike Bolcar and Pritchett were i 
Former Notre Dame tight fundamentals. They line up in the fall, head Stewart's Stonebreaker, a monogram the top two Irish tacklers last ends coach George Stewart re­across from each other, so you group. Freshmen Andre Jones winner in 1986 who missed last year. members how he felt when he have to look at one when you and Scott Kowalkowski are season because of academic in­At least one of the top three was told he would coach the look at the other. I spent a lot playing well on the second eligibility, has stepped in to inside backers will play on both outside linebackers in 1988. of time with (defensive coord­team. 
lead the defense in what has the right and left sides, Alvarez 
"It's like waking up one mor­inator and inside linebackers been a spring dominated by the said, so they can be rotated reg­ning in Russia, and not knowing coach) Barry Alvarez, who men in white. ularly in and out of games. how to speak Russian," coached the defensive ends last "Stonebreaker has really Which of the three will do that Stewart laughs. year." come back ready to play," Al­has not been determined, he 
Stewart's previous "lan­But above all else, the strong varez says. "He had some cob­added. guage" was spoken on the other play of the linebackers and the webs at first, but every day In a spring which has been side of the line of scrimmage. early competition at that posi­he's been improving. Every dominated by strong defensive 
He coached the Minnesota of­tion have made Stewart's ad­day has been his best day, and play, the linebackers are fensive line under Lou Holtz for justment an enjoyable one. "There's so much competi­I suppose that's what every co­leading the way. two years, and followed Holtz "I'm in charge of four people, tion on the whole defense," ach looks for." "There hasn't been a day to Notre Dame to work with the and I'm really pleased with the Stewart notes. "That makes Stonebreaker has been when I haven't seen improve­tight ends in 1986 and 1987. performance of all four of everyone work hard because sharing time with Wes ment," Alvarez says. "(Donn) 
But the two languages have them," Stewart says. "The sit­there's always someone creep­Pritchett, and Ned Bolcar will Grimm and (Greg) Hudson are some similarities. uation for me couldn't have ing up on you who wants to be returning soon from an really playing well and making "Tight ends · and outside been better to come into." play." ankle injury he suffered while the first-teamers work hard." 
Observer predictors like Yanks, A's, Phi Is, LA 
AL East AL West NL East NL West 
The Observer I File Photo 

Wes Pritchett Is one of several veteran players returning to the Notre Dame linebacker corps In the 1988 football season. Barry Alvarez and George Stewart are coaching the linebackers this year. 
George Steinbrenner is enough rea­The talent in the American League The New York Mets are not going to Mter suffering its second consecutive son to predict the New York Yankees West is much more concentrated win the National League East this losing season last year, the once-proud will suffer their share of internal prob­among the top few teams this season season. Not by a long shot. Because of Los Angeles Dodgers franchise was lems in 1988. than it has been in recent years. But it the fact that everyone expects them to dangerously close to becoming the Na­
During the spring Steinbrenner seems that the Oakland A's helped take it all, Davey Johnson's crew will tional League's version of the Bal­joined second baseman Willie Ran­themselves more than anyone else in not. So what if they have the best start­timore Orioles. dolph in accusing Dave Winfield of the off-season and has the best chance ing staff in baseball? Darryl Straw­Sensing the impending danger, new publishing lies in his autobiography. A of breaking out of the pack. berry is one of the best players in the Dodgers general manager Fred Claire fine start. With the addition of veterans Bob business, but he is not a great diplomat, made some risky off-season moves. The 
Billy Martin (at least for now) gets Welch and Dave Parker in major and the lineup is either great or useless most prominent of the missing faces in his fifth shot at managing New York, trades, both theoretically with someth­but never consistent. LA is starting pitcher Bob Welch 05-9, and that always means a little more ing to prove in the junior circuit, the The St. Louis Cardinals will not be 3.22 ERA in '87), who was dealt to Oak­controversy. A's have strengthened a youthful but filling the stands in October, because land. The Dodgers still have a fairly 
Marty Pete 
Theresa 
Steve Strasen Skiko Kelly Megargee
Assistant Sports Assistant Sports Assistant SportsSports Editor Editor Editor Editor 



But Steinbrenner and Martin, try as potentially explosive lineup. Parker they won the division last year and, in strong rotation with Fernando Valen­they may, never step up to the plate or will get his cuts sandwiched between this league, repeating is as rare as a zuela and Orel Hershiser leading the deliver pitches in Yankee Stadium. The sluggers Jose Canseco (31 HR last power hitter in Japan. Speaking of way. 
see YANKS, page 13 see A's, page 13 see CARDS, page 13 see DODGERS, page 13 



