Blast from the past

IACCENT: Raising spirits end Clearing and coorer, with high in the mid to upper 60s. Clear and much cooler tonight. Low in the low 40s. Mostly
VIEWPOINT: Beyond Notre Dame 
sunny and mild tomorrow. 
~~------------------------~ 



VOL. XXI, NO. 134 FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's . 

Class of 1988 takes a big step forward 
Malloy gives 
437 graduatedegrees for tomorrow at the first time Saint Mary's 
By MARK PANKOWSKI By SANDY CERIMELE Saint Mary's Editor 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame will see at least two The undergraduate endeavors of 437 firsts and 2,427 lasts at Sunday's com­students at Saint Mary's will be cele­
brated at the 141st commencement ex­mencement exercises. 
It will be the first commencement ercises this weekend. presided over by University President One of the world's foremost jour­Father Edward Malloy. nalists, Georgie Anne Geyer, will ad­
It will be the first time a 16-year-old dress the class Saturday at noon in the graduates from Notre Dame. Court of LeMans Hall. 
And it will be the last stage of under­Today's events include the Nurses graduate work for 1,873 students and Pinning ceremony at 1 p.m. in the postgraduate work for 554 others. Church of Loretto and the Baccalaure­
Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young will ate Mass, which will be held at 4 p.m. address the graduates at commence­in Angela Athletic Facility. The cele­ment ceremonies beginning at 2 p.m. brant will be Bishop John M. D'Arcy of in the arena of the Joyce Athletic and the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. Convocation Center. The co-valedictorians for the class of 
Malloy, who is completing his first 1988 are Joan Mary Boutton, a business year as Notre Dame president, will major with a concentration in account­celebrate the Baccalaureate Mass at 5 ing from Westlake, Ohio, and Gretchen 
p.m. Saturday in the South Dome of the Preston Gilcrest, also a business major JACC. with a concentration in finance from 
The University has experienced no Mishawaka. This year's class is the early problems preparing for Notre second in the history of the College to Dame's 143rd commencement, said have co-valedictorians. Richard Conklin, director of public re­This year's honorary degree lations and information at Notre Dame. recipient, Laura Bornholdt, is special 
"We've been though this a lot of times assistant to the president and director so the planning is pretty fine tuned," of the office of university-school rela­said Conklin. tions at the University of Chicago. 
At Sunday's ceremonies, Eunice Ken­Bornholdt will receive an honorary doc­nedy Shriver, founder and chairman of tor of humanities degree for her work Special Olympics International, will in higher education during the past receive the Notre Dame's highest forty years as an administrator and as honor, the Laetare Medal. a member of a variety of foundations 
The University will give honorary and educational support groups. degrees to 10 others, ranging from The College will also award the Erich Bloch, director of the National Lumen Christi Medal, its highest stu-Science Foundation, to Father Bruce We're golden now The Observer/Suzanne Poch dent honor, to a graduating senior. The Ritter, founder of Covenant House recipient will be announced at the cer­crisis shelters for the homeless and 
The statue of Mary atop the Golden Dome of the Administration Building seems to offer the emony · . runaway youths. world to this year's graduating class. In the event of mclement weather, ceremonies will be moved indoors, to
see GRADS, page 6 
Angela Athletic Facility. 
Commencement Weekend Aetlvltes 
At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Friday 
1:00 p.m. 4:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 9:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. 
Saturday 
12:00 noon 
2:00 p.m. -3:30 p.m. 4:00p.m. 4:20p.m. 
5:00 p.m. • 6:30 p.m. 9:00p.m. 
Sunday 
12:30 p.m. 1:15p.m. 2:00p.m. 4:30p.m. 4:30p.m. 
Saint Mary's Nurses Pinning Ceremony, Church of Loretto Saint Mary's Baccalaureate Mass, Angela Athletic Facility Lawn Concert, UNO Concert Band, Administration Building Mall Graduate School Reception, Center for Continuing Education Senior Class Dance, South Quad 
Saint Mary's Commencement Exercises, Court of LeMans Hall Notre Dame Reception,Center for Continuing Education Graduates assemble for academic procession, JACC Academic procession begins, JACC Baccalaureate Mass, JACC, South Dome Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club, Stepan Center 

Distribution of Bachleor's and Master's diplomas, JACC Academic Procession, JACC, North Dome Commencement and Conferring of Degrees, JACC, South Dome Law School Diploma Ceremony, Sacred Heart Church Business Administration Diploma Ceremony, Stepan Center 
ObservP.r Graphic 
English professor dies 


before final 
:Special to The Observer 

Professor of English Joseph Duffy died Saturday, April 30, at South Bend's Memorial Hospital, two days before final examinations began. 
Duffy, a specialist in 19th and 20th century fiction, taught courses on a variety of literary genres and was among the Uni­versity's most challenging and popular teachers. 
"I want to be a transparent mediator," Duffy once said of his teaching technique, "so a student can look through me without being distracted from the literary work, get his own conception of the work and make it part of himself. Student imaginations are stirred and become large through their 


exams 
contact with literature en­abling them to conceive of themselves in finer terms," he said. 
Graduated from Columbia University in 1946, Duffy was a Fulbright scholar and received his doctorate from the Univer­sity of Chicago. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1954. 

He received the Danforth Foundation's E. Harris Har­bison Award for Gifted Teach­ing in 1971, for two of his most heavily subscribed courses, "Literature and the Imagina­tion" and "Tragedy and Literary Tradition." 
Duffy is survived by his mot­her, Susan Duffy, of South Bend. A funeral Mass was cel­ebrated on May 3 in Sacred Heart Church. 
page2 The Observer Friday, May 13, 1988 


Graduates must apply the past to the future 
In Brief Students and guests are reminded by Notre Dame Security not to park in fire lanes or other areas blocking access roads on campus. Please do not park in a way that would block the access of emergency vehicles to campus buildings. -The Observer Arthur Decio, University trustee and chief executive officer of Skyline Corporation, has been elected one of t~velve .U!liversity fellows. The fellows include six lay and SIX rehg1ous trustees who are members of the Priests' Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross, are responsible for electing trustees, adopting and amending bylaws, and safeguarding the University's Catholic character. -The Ob­server Marty Rodgers, a senior economics major at Notre Dame, has been named the recipient of the Rev. A. Leonard Collins Award by Father David· Tyson, vice pres­ident for student affairs. The Collins Award, in memory of a Holy Cross priest who served as the University's prefect of discipline from 1957 to 1965, is given annually to a graduating senior for "substantial personal effort to advance the interest of students" at Notre Dame. -The Observer Father Georse Minamiki,associate professor of modern and class1callanguages, has been named the win­ner of the 1988 Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching in the College of Arts and Letters. A faculty-student com­mittee made the award in consultation with Michael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. The award, en­dowed by an anonymous donor, has been given annually since 1970 in memory of Father Charles Sheedy, former dean of the College. -The Observer Father Richard McCormick, O'Brien professor of Christian ethics and one of the country's leading bioet­hicists, will receive two honorary degrees this month. McCormick will receive a doctor of humane letters from Xavier Unviersity on May 14 and Fordham University on May 21. The degrees are his eigth and ninth honorary doctorates. McCormick, a past president of the Catholic Theological Society of America, will also receive the Henry Knowles Beecher Award from the Hastings Center in New York state for "lifetime contributions to ethics and the life sciences." -The Observer New language department divisions have been approved by the Notre Dame Academic Council. The De­partment of Modern and Classical Languages will be reor­ganized into the departments of Classical and Oriental L~nguages and Literatures, Romance Languages and L~teratures, and Germa_n a_nd Russian Languages and L1teratures. The reorgamzabon will be effected by the fall of 1989. -The Observer Three Saint Mary's students teamed up to win semi-finalist honors in the recent Mathematical Contest in Modeling, sponsored by COMAP, Inc.. Juniors Karen Snyder and Lisa Rosmarin and senior Felicia Stein were awarded meritorious classification for their solution to the problem "Optimal Loading of Flatcars." -The Observer A high-tech grant of $77,500 has been awarded to Saint Mary's by the Charles E. Culpeper Foundation. The grant will incorporate video technology into the College's language curriculum. -The Observer "Last Call" reception for 1986-87 Arts and Letters London Program students, faculty, and staff will be held Saturday from 12:30 to 3 p.m. in Theodore's. If you have questions, contact Kevin Sandberg at 271-0513. -The Ob­server  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editors... . . . . . Bernadette Shilts Sparta Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen .................................... Annette Rowland .......................................... Brian O'Gara Typesetter ....... Mark Ridgeway Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Matt Slaughter News Editora.. . ........... Regis Coccia Accent Copy Editor.............. Beth Healy ................................... Mark McLaughlin Photographer................... Suzanne Poch De OMner (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. ne OI!Mner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina ne OI!Mner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. ne OI!Mner is a member of ne Alloclaled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

I have stayed on campus for every Senior Week since I have been a student at Notre Dame. I honestly cannot say that this one has been very different from the others, except for all of the senior-y stuff I had to do (i.e., filling out the epic survey before I could get my graduation tickets). 
It's been a pretty good four years. I think everyone had a pretty decent time across the board. And the few who did not probably will find some nice memories to take away with them in the long run. Therefore, I have made a vow not to get too sentimental in this column althought it will be pretty tough to restrau; myself. 
Graduation is an interesting event. It is sup­posed to _be the culmination of our four years, but I believe that many of us would not mind getting our diplomas in the mail if it were not for our parents and the chance to be with our friends for a few more hours. But you just can­not help feeling sappy at times --being here for the past four years has made us quite comfort­able with the place. 
And I believe that is what a lot of the emotion is about, being comfortable with our lives at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. On a trip to
Chicago this past Wednesday, one of my friends 
was making fun of some others who insist on categorizing all of the "lasts" that we get in­volved with in these final weeks. With fake tears and maudlin voice, he was satirizing their emo­tion over taking our "last trip to Chicago." I, like most people laughed at the joke; but I could not help but feel a little twinge when I was reminded that these good times were not going to last forever. 
Life at college --and especially these colleges --is generally pretty easy. We are surrounded by friends, constantly reminded that the commu­D;itY is here to educate us and help us in good bmes and bad. These characteristics do not serve only to make the students comfortable with life in this community. Parents who send their children here generally feel comfortable about the sense of Catholic values that surround their children as they come to maturity. 
So when the time comes to leave this com-
M A T H 

Kevin Becker 
Editor-in-Chief Emeritus 

ML8 
._.______________...;...;.;;;,~ 
munity, almost everyone involved starts to feel a bit emotional about having to abandon sur­roundings of the past four years. If our college careers have. "een like some stage play, we have gotten throut;,> •he last act and are making our way to the curtain call on closing night. Everyone wants to get together for a final time to celebrate and reminisce about the trials, tribulations, and adulations of the entire prduc­tion. 
But when the urge to get sad about leaving ND and SMC starts to get the best of us, I sug­gest that we forget about getting too caught up in the emotion of leaving this comfortable en­vironment. We have done what we could with our lives in college; now we have to put all of the training to use. As we prepare to graduate, we should think about the work we are going to do in the future --the application of our past here. 
1 0 
1 
A public service message from The Observer 



Walkingre-invented 
Birkenstock sandals re-introduce you to the joys of walking. Because they're light and flexible, shaping to your feet like cool, soft sand. Because they give you correct support and let you move younger, healthier, more naturally. Birkenstock. Made in the old world tradition to last and last. 



Friday, May 13, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Commencement speakers set 
Young 'honored' to speak at Notre Dame 

By HEIDI SCHLUMPF Senior Staff Reporter 
Andrew Young, mayor of At· 
lanta and a spokesman for the 
civil rights movement, will ad­
dress an audience of graduat­
ing seniors and guests Sunday 
during Notre Dame's 143rd 'Commencement. 
University President Father 
Edward Malloy and the Board 
of Trustees chose Young as this 
year's speaker from a list of 
suggestions made by the senior 
class. 
"He is a major spokesman 
for the black community" and 
his selection is a step toward 
efforts to respond to the 
recently-announced Notre 
Dame minority policies, Mal­
loy said in a previous inter­
view. 
Young's selection came soon after the University's an­nouncement of a plan to in­crease minority enrollment in the next four years through the formation of a $12 million en­dowment for minority financial aid. 

The selection of Young has brought optimistic reactions from the minority community at Notre Dame. Young will be the second black to speak at a Notre Dame commencement. The first was Vernon Jordan, who addressed the class of 1976. 
"Mayor Young is honored to have been selected to be the commencement speaker at Notre Dame," said Nehl Hor­ton, Young's press secretary. "Certainly, Notre Dame is one of the more prestigious institu­tions of higher learning in America." 
Young was out of town and not available for comment. 
"The mayor looks on this as a good opportunity to influence the thoughts and ideas of the nation's future leaders," Hor­ton said. 
Young was born March 12, 1932, to a middle-class family and grew up in a predominantly Irish and Ital­ian neighborhood in New Or­leans, Louisiana. He graduated from a private high school and enrolled in Dillard University in New Orleans. The following year, he transferred to Howard University in Washington D.C. as a pre-med student. 
After his graduation in 1951, Young decided to enter mini­stry. He graduated from the Hartford Theological Semi­nary in 1955 and was ordained a minister in the United Church of Christ. 
Journalist Geyer will praise Saint Mary's 
By MIMI TUOHY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
High praise for Saint Mary's is in order, according to Georgie Ann Geyer, syndicated columnist and the 1988 com­mencement speaker at Saint Mary's. "Saint Mary's is the perfect setting to prepare a wo­man to enter the world and the many ctmllenges it offers. I hope to deliver a message of hope and enthusiasm to the graduating seniors," said Geyer. 

Geyer, whose column ap­pears in various newspapers throughout the United States and Latin America, also ap­pears as a regular panelist on the PBS television show "Was­hington Week in Review." She received an honorary doctor of letters degree from Saint Mary's in 1986. 
"I was very lucky because I always knew what I wanted to do. It is very important for the youth of today to decide what it is that they want to do and make a for themselves in society. Everyone should do something that they enjoy, not something that they are told to do by the rest of society," Geyer said. 
After receiving a bachelor's degree from Northwestern University, Geyer worked as a general assignment reporter in her native Chicago. She later worked as a foreign correspon­dent in various locations, in­cluding Central and South America and Middle East and Southeast Asia. 
From the Notre Dame Club of Greater Boston 
CONGRATULATIONS ND/SMC 1988 GRADUATES ! 
If you'll be moving to the BOSTON area or justing vacation with us this summer, 
Give us a call and get involved. 
call: John Rudser 617-366-7955 Paul Mortensen 617-242-2086 Cathy Wisniewski 617-567-0880 Mark Staublin 617-259-0916 



page 4 The Observer Friday, May 13, 1988 
Lapsley named as Senior Fellow 
By REGIS COCCIA News Editor 
Professor Daniel Lapsley has been named the 1988 Senior Fellow. Lapsley, was chosen from 10 candidates nominated by graduating seniors, said Diane Fitzgibbon, senior class president. 
Lapsley, assistant professor of psychology, won by majority vote over fellow candidates 
Valedictory: examine past 
By LIZ PANZICA Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Co-Valedictorian Gilberto Mar­xuach described himself as feeling both anxious and scared about delivering the valedic­tory address to the graduating class of 1988. 
"It's a lot for one person to take on, talking to thousands," said Marxuach, adding that his speech will "share an experi­ence I had four years ago," when he gave his high school valedictory address. In his 
-----~-----------­
You 


The Zenith Data Systems Z-159 Enhanced PC 
Dual Floppy Drive suggested retail price: $1599 
Single Floppy with Hard Disk suggested retail price: $2199 
Lou Holtz, head football coach, Father Andre Leveille, direc­tor of campus ministry, Joe Cassidy, director of student ac­tivities, Mary Ann Roemer, coordinator for special events and concerns of the Center for Social Concerns, and five others. 
"We sent out ballots to every senior and got 500-600 back," Fitzgibbon said. "We got nominations from a bunch of 
speech to 84 graduating high school classmates, Marxuach said his theme was forgive­ness. 
He said his Notre Dame ad­dress is a comparison of his high school and college gradua­tion experiences. 
In high school, choosing a subject for the valedictory ad­dress was easy, Marxuach said, because he knew what had to be expressed. He said he was not able to speak on such a personal level here, be­cause he would have excluded too many. "I'm asking each seniors and we looked for people (in the Notre Dame community) who worked with seniors." 
Each of the candidates received a large number of votes, Fitzg~bbon said. 
"I'm really excited about it and Professor Lapsley is very excited, too." Lapsley could not be reached for comment 
Thursday. 

student to examine his own past," he said. 
Marxuach said he discussed his speech with Professors Kat­herine Tillman and Mark Jor­dan, of the Program of Liberal Studies. No one was assigned to oversee the writing of the ad­dress, but he he went to the pro­fessors because they were close personal friends, Mar­xuach added. 
Marxuach, a PLS major, shares the honor of valedic­torian with Michael Chapski, an English major. 
Marxuach, a native of Puerto 
Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center x7689 
or 
Fourway Computer Prod. 
Brad Koch 277-7720 
Zenith data systems 

data 
systems 
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON 
© 1987, Zenith Data Systems 
r-----------------------------------~ 
FORD -TOYOTA -VOLVO 
":a~..b 
·~ JEFFERSON & CEDAR-MISHAWAKA 
Kurt Miller Lissa Astilla Anne Sanderson Jamie Froman Brian Olson Matthew Ryan Kara England Gregory Tatum John Schirger Robert Carroll Edward Trifone Karen Vuono John Omernik 
The Student Affairs Citation of Merit is awarded to graduating seniors who have rendered outstanding service to the residential mission of the University. The recipients of these citations were nominated by the hall staffs and the Office of Residence Life. 
Observer Graphic 

Rico, was chosen to give the I would have had a problem,"farewell address because he said Marxuach. had a slightly higher grade point average and'more credits Marxuach plans to attend then Chapski. Yale Law School this fall. After 
"I have no problem (with the that, "I'm taking it one step at arrangement). Ha~ I been him, a time," he said. 
Special Student Price: $949 
Special Student Price: $1249 
Harold Sivers Lisa Buonaccorsi Frank Huemmer Kimberly Corcoran Robin McHugh Kenneth Kollman Jeffrey Mayer Katherine Gehl Colleen Kretz Bardley Drawer James Wimbiscus Brendan Judge Timothy Dempsey 

$9.99 Pan Pizza Dinner Special 
Includes a large Deep-Dish Sicilian or 14" Pan Brio® pizza (with up to 3 toppings) and 2 orders ofbreadsticks. 
Drink." not indm.lt.•(.l Nol l'alic.J wirh any utht.·r UJUp<m tJr diSt.'tJUfll. 


Dinnerfor 2Just $5.99 
Includes your choice ofa medium Deep­Dish Sicilian pia..a or a 12" Hand·lhssed Round or IO'! P'dn Brio' with I topping and I order ofhreadsticks. 
Drinks nol inc.:ludL·d. 
NcH valid with an\'cJih«.:r t:CJUpcm tJrdi~t:tJ~nl. 


The Zenith Data Systems Z-159 Enhanced PC is IBM PC®-compatible and faster than the IBM PC/XT®. It's everything you'd expect in a powerful, flexible, expandable PC. And we're throwing in a few extras ... 
Now, the Z-159 Enhanced PC can be yours at a great student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­stration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! 
So stop by today. And see the Z-159 Enhanced PC for ourself. See you soon! 

~--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------·--­
Friday, May 13, 1988 
The Observer pageS 
AUTHENTIC

w 
Knute ROCKNE Cachet
z 
1st Day Covers Now Available 
0 
~ For those who couldn't attend the ceremonies personally attended by President Ronald Reagan, you have the opportunity to purchase a truly 
collectable item that can be framed. 
0 LAST 22¢ CO.MMMEMORATIVE STAMP ISSUED
a: 
GIFT IDEAS 
w 
Great for framing 
Graduation Gift 
z 
N.D. Enthusiast Relative 
Alumni Friends of N.D.
~ 
Birthday Present 
0 
Keepsake0 Momento Collectiblea: Souvenir 
SEND THIS ORDER FORM WITH YOUR PAYMENT TO:w I~-------------~~---,
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE I
ROCKNE 

I I
z 
COMMEMORATIVE aName 1 
Limited Quantity 
~ STAMP I Address I 
0 
I I 
0 
I City/State I I I I I ONLY I I
a: 
'------------------~' 

P.O. BOX 685 NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 

Honorary degrees conferred upon 10 
Special to The Observer • Norman Francis, president 
of Xavier University in New 
Notre Dame will give Orleans, will receive a doctor 
honorary degrees to 10 persons of laws. Francis has served 
at its 143rd Commencement ex­since 1968 as the president of 
ercises on Sunday, May 15. the only Catholic institution of 
Also to be honored at gradua­higher education in the United 
tion ceremonies is Eunice Ken­States with a predominantly 
nedy Shriver, founder and black enrollment. 
chairman of Special Olympics • Bernard Hank, Jr., chair­
International. She will receive man of the board of the 
the Laetare Medal, Notre Montgomery Elevator Com­
Dame's highest honor and the pany in Moline, Ill. and a Uni­
oldest and most prestigious versity trustee, will receive a 
award given American Cat­doctor of laws. He has been ac­
holics. tive in many civic, charitable, 
Atlanta Mayor Andrew and industrial organizations 
Young, Jr., the previously an­over the years. 
nounced commencement • Linus Pauling, research 
speaker, will receive a doctor professor at the Linus Pauling 
of laws. Institute of Science and 
Those receiving honorary Medicine in Palo Alto, Ca., will degrees are: receive a doctor of science. 
•. Eric Bloch, director of the Pauling is an American theo­National Science Foundation in retical chemist and biologist Washington, D.C., will receive who was awarded the Nobel a doctor of engineering. Prize in chemistry in 1954 for 
• 
James Burke, chairman of work on intermolecular forces the board and chief executive and the 1962 Nobel Peace Prize officer of Johnson & Johnson in for organizing scientists over New Brunswick, N.J., will the world in opposition to nu­receive a doctor of laws. clear testing. 

• 
Bishop John D' Arcy, ordi­nary of the Diocese of Fort • Father Louis Putz, founder Wayne-South Bend, will of the Harvest House and receive a doctor of laws. While Forever Learning Institute en­in Boston in the late 1970s as a richment programs for the el­"regional bishop," D' Arcy di­derly, Notre Dame gruaduate rected the Office of Spiritual and former professor of theol­Development, whose programs ogy, will receive a doctor of reached some 250,000 people. laws. 

• 
Mary Douglas, a British • Father Bruce Ritter, foun­anthropologist and visiting pro­der of Covenant House crisis fessor in anthropology and re­shelters for homeless and ligion at Princeton University, runaway youths, will receive a will receive a doctor of laws. doctor of laws: 


~ ...
, ;if.·.Jr~-. 
~-' ..' 
' " . -. . 
~~ 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch
Boxed out 

Farley Hall was one of many halls which set up hall before final exams was moving day for most under­storage services to haul mountains of furniture and classmen. junk like this to off campus warehouses. The weekend 
SMC survey shows future 
By ROSE PIETRZAK recently and will be surveyed an outline for a general pattern News Staff again next year. of graduate activity. 
"The responses on our sur­If the graduating seniors fol­
A 1987 survey indicates that vey so far this year have been low the patterns of previous the graduating seniors at Saint pretty meager," said Jeff classes, about 20 percent will Mary's have bright futures Roberts, assistant director of enter graduate school. More awaiting them after their com­placement services. He said than 70 percent of those who mencement weekend. that of accounting and educa­attend graduate school will 
Each year, Sister Jeannette tion majors who replied, most pursue advanced studies, said Lester, director of institutional have already been placed in Roberts. research, polls graduating jobs or currently finding work Of those who pursue seniors in April and again in assignments. graduate studies, more than 25 February, after graduation, on The responses from the sur­percent will enter law and MBA graduate preparation, job veys are collected by Lester programs. Another 25 percent satisfaction and life expecta­following the second survey in will pursue studies in the arts tion. The results of the 1987 sur­February and compiled for and sciences, while fewer than vey have just been released. release the next spring. The five percent will study full-time 
The Class of '88 was polled surveys' results have provided for other degrees. 
Friday, May 13, 1988

pageS The Observer 
Hesburgh still working for Notre Dame 
By KENDRA MORRILL Assistant News Editor 
Where does one go after spending 35 years at the helm of the greatest Catholic univer­sity in the world? Everywhere, if you're University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh and University Ex­ecutive Vice President Emeritus Father Edmund Joyce left South Bend on June 11, 1987, in a van, dragging a Chevy behind the van and hold­ing a sign saying "Gary or bust." They did get by Gary, said Hesburgh, and three months, 26 states, 16 national parks and 30 national forests later they came back to the University. 
"During that time we did 16,000 miles and didn't put a scratch on the van or the Chevy," he said. 
Hesburgh and Joyce came back shortly for the Interna­tional Special Olympics held at Notre Dame in August, and after that "took off for Alaska in a small plane," Hesburgh said. 
"It was a wonderful time. I did the cooking and we both lost 10 pounds," he said. "I'd never cooked before in my life." 
"We both drove and stopped along the way and met Notre Dame people almost everywhere," he said. 
"It was a wonderful chance to see our country and I came up with the conclusion that, having been in 130 different countries on earth, America's got to be the most beautiful -­not one spot but when you put it all together," Hesburgh said. "It took me 70 years in America to see our own parks and I hope that you younger folks will all get the chance to 
RANSFER TO YOUR HOME 
see them because they're ab­solutely fabulous." 
They got back from their cross-country excursion just in time to see the opening home football game against Mic­higan State, said Hesburgh. 
Then the administrators emeriti were off again --to Latin America. They began in Mexico and traveled south through through all of Central America and all of South America to Tierra del Fuego in Chile, "the southernmost point on earth before you get to the Antarctic," said Hesburgh. 
The two priests wound up in Buenos Aires, Argentina, said Hesburgh, and flew home in time to give the talk at the Reis­man Trophy award presenta­tion in New York, at which Notre Dame's Tim Brown received the trophy. 
"Then we went off to the Caribbean over Christmas with the QE II (Queen Elizabeth II) to get used to the ship. It was very complicated. It's the big­gest ship on earth," said Res­burgh. 
Hesburgh returned to New York from the first leg of his ocean voyage on Jan. 2 and fle, .. to Amsterdam for a meetin~ with the Soviets on human rights, at which an organiza­tion was established to monitor human rights in the Soviet Union and in the United States, he said. 
"Following that, we went back to New York on the 13th of January and left for around the world," said Hesburgh. Beginning the second leg of their ocean voyage, Hesburgh and Joyce headed south to the Caribbean, across the Panama Canal and up to Los Angeles via Aculpulco, Hesburgh said. They then went to Tahiti and Morea and Rorotonga and New 
GMAT LSAT MCAT GRE& NCLEX 

TOWN! 
T HOMESTUDY PACKETS NOW! 
FFER GOOD ONLY IN SOUTH BEND. I 
~· 
* Expires 6/15/88 
c 

KAPLAN! 
5TANlfY H. KAP\.AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
The world's leading test prep organization 
CAU DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-41~5 South Bend, IN 466J7 
Zealand, and then over to Australia "where we did the big cities --Sydney; Canberra, the capital; Melbourne; Fremantle-Perth, where they had the America Cup races," said Hesburgh. 
Aboard the QE II, Hesburgh and Joyce were chaplains. "We had Mass every day and gave homilies every day --we gave over a hundred homilies on that boat," Hesburgh said. He and Joyce celebrated the full Holy Week services, Hesburgh said. 
During the entire voyage, "we distributed close to 10,000 hosts for Holy Communion," he said. "We also did a lot of coun­seling work. We had five people die, and we helped with that. We had the usual crises one has on a large ship like that. It's like being the chaplain of the Waldorf-Astoria. 
"We left on the 13th of Janu­ary and got back at the end of April," Hesburgh said. He said he and Joyce stopped at 40 ports of call and, including the Christmas cruise, spent 115 days aboard the ship. 
Hesburgh and Joyce logged about 50,000 miles during their year abroad, Hesburgh said. 
"It was a great year," he said. "I read over 40 books and I wrote a diary every day, so I have about 600 pages of diary that when it gets all typed up 
has to be edited.'' The 600 pages "may or may not" become a book. "I just have to see how it comes out. I haven't even read it myself yet," he said. 
Mter going virtually everywhere on earth, then what does Notre Dame's former president plan to do? 
Grads 
continued from page 1 
Among the 1,873 receiving baccalaureate degrees will be 16-year-old Narciso Jaramillo, the youngest graduate in Notre Dame history. 
Jaramillo, an honors math­computing major, said he feels no different from the other graduates. 
"I can't see how I would be any different from anyone else, except that I can't drink," said Jaramillo, who plans to study artificial and com-
Hesburgh said he felt as if a burden had been lifted from him when he stepped down as University president. "When you're president here you're president 24 hours a day," he said. "Every problem is your problem. It's a constant pres­sure from morning till night. It's wonderful to be free of all that administrative kind of duty. 
"The things I'm doing now I love to do," he added. 
puter science at the University of California, Berkeley. 
Gilberto Marxuach, a Pro­gram of Liberal Studies major, and Michael Chapski, an En­glish major, will be honored as co-valedictorians. Marxuach, who holds a 3.986 grade point average, will deliver the valedictory address. 
Also graduating Sunday are 64 students receiving doctoral degrees and 148 getting master's degrees in the graduate school; 181 getting M.B.A.s; and 159 receiving J.D. degrees and two getting LL.M. degrees in the law school. 


Coopers&Lybrand 
We are proud to welcome the following 1988 graduates of the University of Notre Dame to our Firm: 
BOSTON OFFICE: Alisa Sabolsice 

CHICAGO OFFICE: Ann Brown Gary Galeziewski Brian Murray Tim 0 'Connell Brian Pierret Nan Sauer Mike Shannon Tim Smith Dennis Tillman 
CINCINNATI OFFICE: Mary Marchal! 
COLUMBUS OFFICE: James Aman 
DETROIT OFFICE: Mark Anderson Kevin Stoutermire Tom Butewig 
HARTFORD OFFICE: Joe Alfano Jim Fraleigh Jim Woode 
HONOLULU OFFICE: Dom Prinzivalli 
INDIANAPOLIS OFFICE: Dave Fink 
MIAMI OFFICE: Deanne Summers 
NEW YORK OFFICE: David Marcantuona 
ORLANDO OFFICE: Mary Larkin 
SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE: Jim Reilly 
SOUTH BEND OFFICE: 
Molly Meyer 
Scott Swick 
Mark Zeese 
THE COOPERS & LYBRAND COMMITMENT 
To provide the quality of service expected by our clients; to develop individual initiative and help our people fulfill their potential; and to foster a sense of teamwork -among our people and with our communities. 

.-,-, -, 

Friday, May 13, 1988 
The Observer 
--~·­

Minorities have seen change in four years at Notre Dame 
By LYNSEY R. STRAND 
Staff Reporter 
"I've seen such a wide spec­trum of change at Notre Dame in my four years here. When I arrived, minority issues were on the back burner," said Lisa Boykin, a black graduating senior. 
Last June, a University com­mittee issued a report on minority students which the ad­mininistration responded to this February by announcing its goal to raise the minority enrollment from 11 to 15 per­cent in four years and the es­tablishment of a $12 million en­dowment fund for minority concerns. 
"It's great that the Univer­sity is implementing change, but we must be cautiously op­timistic," Boykin said. 
Of the 32 black students who started freshman year with her, 25 are graduating this May, Boykin noted. The Uni­verity's percentage of black undergraduates has grown 
~[h]@J~[1@Ul]@[h]~ ~@D~@omm 
and Thanks Mom and Dad 
Love. one Generation of Rudser 
Graduates Anne '8Z ]ohn '83 Moira '85 )im '86 
WE'RE CELEBRATING 
Another year of making the thickest, richest pizza in town. It's obvious you are people of taste and 
distinction who appreciate the exceptional rather than the ordinary. 
THANKS! We value your business. 
------illii(O(•]i]J•]:pi-----·-••.. I SUPER
SAVE OVER I
I $6.00 PEPPERONI I
I I
2 medium original Super Pepperonis 
I ONLY 510.99 PW:u~~xrv& c!uaul·s I
I Coupon Expires 5-31-88 Pizza I Not valid with other offers or coupons y · I
I I
Limited Delivery Area 

I Town & Country US 31 North II Shopping Center in Roseland 1 I 259-2556 211-588o I 
~----------------­
from two to nearly four percent since her freshman year, she said. The report stated its four­year goal was to reach six per­cent. 
"There are only five black teaching faculty members Notre Dame, one black profes­sor at Saint Mary's and no black women professors at either campus," she added. 
Hiring minority faculty is "a problem now being forcibly ad­dressed," said Nathan Hatch, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Boykin said she thinks the University's minority program is a positive step, but has two flaws. She cited the program's voluntary affirmative action plan to hire more black scholars "leaves almost an es­cape door to hire women and Asians if they couldn't fill the positions with qualified blacks." 
She also criticized Associate Provost Oliver William's ap­pointment to oversee the Uni­versity's minority program. 
"Putting a white in charge is 
ironic  because  he  is  not  a  
minority."  
The  University  has  

proclaimed 1988-89 as the year of cultural diversity to promote minority awareness. "The stu­dent body has to do its job of bridging its gap between minority and , majority stu­dents," added Boykin. 
"In an institution of higher learning, students shouldn't leave here with the same feelings based on ignorance they came here with," said Angie Chamblee, assistant dean of Freshman Year of Studies. "There are individuals at Notre Dame who have stereotypes. We need to ed­ucate those to believe diversity is best at the University." 

Notre Dame applicants set record 
By MAURA KRAUSE 
News Staff 
The class of incoming fresh­men promises to be one of the most qualified, drawn from the largest pool of applicants in the University's history, according to Pat Leonardo, associate director of undergraduate ad­missions. 
This year the Admissions of­fice received nearly 9,700 ap­plications, a figure "about 20 percent ahead of last year which was a record with ap­

J)enws' 
RESTAURANT 
Congratulations to the Class of 88 
Open 24 Hours 
Breaklast ~ervoo 1\nytome I mile north of campus 
52626 US 31 N. 277-0022 

ND'61
ironwood wine and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors (219) 272-7144 
1725 North Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
BURKE GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP 
WELCOMES 1988 GRADUATES AND THEIR FAMILIES 
NOTRE IM/1E&OLFWEIIRliND EQUIP/1ENT-GREAT FORGIFTS 
PRO SHOP HOURS THIS WEEKEND FRI 6:30AM -8:00PM SAT/SUN 6:00 -4:00PM 
PRIORITY TEE Tl MES FRIDAY BAM-4PM SATURDAY 9AM-2PM 
proximately 7,985 applica­tions," Leonardo said. 
The Class of 1992 boasts some of the most impressive test scores to date, with a "the median being in the top 3 per­cent of their class with a 1250 SAT (Scholastic Aptitude Test) score," he said, but added that Admissions will not have exact statistics on the class until Au­gust. 
The Admissions office under­took some steps itself to "create interest in the Univer­sity," Leonardo said. The of­
page7 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Average Annual Starting Salaries for 1988 College Graduates 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Accountant  $23,272  
Bank Officer  $19,620  
Chemist  $30,847  
Commercial Artist  $11,444  
Computer Systems Analyst  $23,664  
Economist  $28,122  
Editor,Print  $12,372  
Engineer,Aerospace  $37,642  
Public Relations Specialist  $14,715  
Purchasing Agent  $17,005  
Stockbroker  $13,734  
Teacher  $17,238  
Source: The Jobs Related Almanac  

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 


fice "doubled the number of Notre Dame information nights ever offered and generated more correspond­
ence with prospective stu­dents," he said. 
"With the rising costs of col­lege, more and more students are looking for the most quality for the dollar and Notre Dame looks better and better. In Notre Dame's case, reality is catching up with reputation," he said. 
Minority enrollment at Notre Dame is also on the rise. With the Class of '92, "minority en­rollment will be the highest ever with a possibility of 13 per­cent," Leonardo said. 
The number of women at Notre Dame is also increasing, he said. Next year's class will number about 1,150 men and about 650 women. Over the next four years, the University will admit 650 women each year, to increase the overall number of female students by about 600, Leonardo said. 
"SAVINGS OF THE GREEN" at 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENT-HOMES 
Enjoy the comfort of: 
* 
Countrysize kitchens 

* 
Central Air Conditioning 

* 
Swimming pool & club house 


*Washers & Dryers in each Apartment 
* I0 minutes from Notre Dame 
12 month discount available Cleveland at Bendix Road 277-3731 
Viewpoint 
Friday, May 13, 1988

pageS 
New graduates face new obligations 
We have closed our books, said our goodbyes and snapped that last photo­graph of the Dome. Our years at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are over, just as quickly as they began. 
This column is not about all of these things though--all of us are so wrapped up in our own sentiments and memories of college that we do not need another column to remind us of them. 
Scott Bearby 
a look ahead 
Instead, I want to focus on topics which will be as important at our 25th reunion as they are today: the tremen­dous responsibilities for which the Notre Dame community has prepared us to undertake and the obligation we have to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as a sign of thanks for giving us this opportunity to grow during the past four years. 
We have a number of choices to make that will affect our individual lives-­marriage and family, career, a new "hometown,"--choices which will be keeping us very busy during the next few years. Life at Notre Dame hope­fully has prepared us for these choices, or at least has made us able to adjust to our new situations. 
But, the Notre Dame community has done more than prepare us for our in­dividual lives; it has prepared us to af­fect the lives of many others as well. 
In the fields of government, business, medicine, science, engineering, the arts, teaching and other professions, we will be called upon to lead the way. The decisions we make will be based on the education gained during our time at Notre Dame and, equally important, the day-to-day experiences here which will have readied us for our new day­to-day lives. 
The standards which the University espouses and the strong community bonds which have been developed while at college here have given us an edge over students at many other universities--but Notre Dame expects that we use these experiences not just for our own gain, but also for the benefit of all society, or at least to contribute to our own smaller portions of the world. 

Notre Dame provides the opportunity to learn the importance of contributing back to the causes for which we believe. Most of us have found a way to become involved on this campus or in the South Bend community. Now that we are moving on to new environments, this involvement in the community must continue. 
There is a responsibility to do what we can to make a difference in our world--through our individual lives, in our careers and in those community in­terests in which we strongly believe. This not a responsibility of only Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates, but of everyone. However, these are re­sponsibilities which we willingly have learned while at Notre Dame. 
There also is the obligation for each of us to contribute back to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
Even more than the need for financial support, there is the need for us to be aware of what is happening within the Notre Dame community in future years. The university has given us tre­mendous support--and our first priority as alumni must be to see that Notre Dame is providing ever-expanding op­portunities in education, financial as­sistance and personal development to future students. 
Our years at Notre Dame are over but fortunately the memories will live on as we continue our friendships and return to campus for football games and reunions. Even more important than these memories will be the exam­ple we set in our new environments--the example of a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's "alum" concerned about their university community, concerned about the world around them and will­ing to be involved in both. 
Scott Bearby is graduating with a B.A. in GovernmentiALPA and is a writer for the news and Viewpoint depart­ments. 
Spirit of Notre Dame will persist 
Well it's over. The four year lease with no option to buy has expired. They are kicking us out after four years of hard work, hard play and most impor­tantly, maturing. It hardly seems fair that the Class of 1988 has to move out now from under the shadow of the dome, to a world that is looking for us to be its leaders. Yet it is neccessary that Notre Dame ask us to leave. You see this place in northern Indiana, where we all chose to spend the last four years, is a constant source of change and renewal. You can see it every year, as each class moves on so Notre Dame moves on. It is a progres­sion of the spirit of human life, under the guidance of Mary, Our Lady, that best sums up what Notre Dame means. 
Brian Broderick 
sincerely yours 
No words can express the experience of living in a community such as this. No article in The Observer can do jus­tice to the love, warmth and friendship that comes from living at a place like Notre Dame. As we are to go about our separate ways, we begin to look back and relive our memories of the good times and the bad times. We all want to hang on to the experience of being at Notre Dame. As we leave, I only hope than we can bring that experience with us. 
Our families should be thanked. We left home and brought with us a sense of community, love and friendship. Here at Notre Dame these qualities were renewed, shaped and made whole through the guidance of our hall staff, faculty administration, and the love that Mary gives to this campus. With­out the sacrifice, support and guidance 
of our parents none of us would be here today. Because they cared, a very spe­cial day is upon us. 
We all will move on to a world that 

is full of problems, problems which ap-~·------------------------------, pear insurmountable. The challenge is 
p 0 BQX Q
to make a difference in this world of ours. Notre Dame has sheltered us in • • a way from the "real" world. As we L---------------------------------1 
graduate we mark the end of one jour-Mall b"d f II 
ney and the beginning of another. Our W?rld af!er Notre Dame will be filled 
with excitement, challenges and more maturation. We can not be apprehen­sive about our new beginning We should attack it with all the verve and anticipa­tion that marked our entry into Notre Dame. As a wise government professor told his graduating seniors, "if you come back here twenty years from now, and you are with your friends at the Grotto and you say 'those were the best years of my life', then you just wasted the last twenty years of your life. Your future is now. The best years of your life are ahead of you." 

All of us will have different memories of Notre Dame, from Bridget's on a Friday night to a football Saturday to a stroll around the lake with your fa­vorite guy or gal. We came here from different backgrounds and formed a family. Notre Dame gave us more than a academic education, it gave us the opportunity to grow both spiritually and intellectually. We have all made friends here that we will never forget. We were renewed by the spirit of Notre Dame. Now, Our Lady asks us to go forth and live our lives according to the Christian principles that we were taught here. We are asked to live a life of uncondi­tional love, of unbounded giving and of peace. It is time for Notre Dame to renew itself. We should leave with hap­piness in our hearts and thankfulness for the opportunity to live in such a spe­cial place. If we live with the spirit of Our Lady in our hearts we will live hawr lives. 
Brian Broderick is graduating with a 
B.A. in Government and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
oy I s arewe 
to Class of 1988 
Dear Members of the Class of 1988: 
These are busy days for you and the members of your family who are visit­ing the campus. Four years can pass quickly, especially in an invigorating environment like Notre Dame. Great changes have taken place in each of your lives over the course of these years. I know that many of the 
you. May you never stop learning and 
may you bring a compassionate heart 
to a world that suffers many pains. 
I hope to have the opportunity towel­
come you back to the campus fre­
quently. You are now a full-fledged 
Domer, and may this be both a reward 
for four years of hard work and a sign ..of the responsibility you now bear. 
Father Edward A. Malloy University President May 13, 1988 

friendships you have made will last r---------------.., 

forever. 

Notre Dame has its own special tradi­tions, sights, and smells. You have be­come familiar enough with the campus to call it your own. The Dome and the Grotto, the Hesburgh Library and the Joyce ACC, the Bookstore and the road to Saint Mary's--these are reminders of the people of Notre Dame who are so precious to all of us. 
On behalf of all of us here at the Uni­versity who have served you for these four years I pray for your well-being and happiness in coming years. May you find satisfaction in your work and 
Quote of the Day 
"Friends are friends forever--if the Lord's the Lord of them. And a friend will not say never-­'cause the welcome will not end. 'Tho it's hard to let you go--in the Father's hands we know--that a lifetime's not too long to live as friends." 
Michael W. Smith "Friends" 

good friends to comfort and support 1---------------____..J 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ....................•................. Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ................................... Mark McLaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports .Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 
Friday, May 13, 1988 
The Observer page 9 
A Final Farewell for Seniors 
Photos designed by Suzanne Poch 


Friday, May 13, 1988 
1 ''Monk'' inaugurated 
Father Edward "Monk" Malloy was inaugurated the University's 16th president on September 23, 1987 in the first such ceremony at Notre Dame. Thousands of students, alumni and faculty members attended the ceremony. One hundred seventy-five presidents and academic officers from universities and colleges nationwide were among more than 1,500 distinguished guests who also attended the inauguration. Malloy succeeded Father Theodore Hesburgh, who served as 
The Dey After
ACCENT: Mules for pets 
Partlyal,mnyTIII.Iradaywltll 
&hlth...ound10.Cieerand 
'tlof'Y cool Tllu,...y nlg~l 
wlltlttMIDwnur40.1o.~nnv

VIEWPOINT: Constitutional injustices 
II'KICooiFrldlly 


Ill(' lfl(1l'l)tnclc•n! nlw-.p.IIJI'' ..,, ovulq Nnl11 0\olor-,\11115,11111 Muy.., 
'Monk' Malloy inaugurated 

By CHRIS BEDNARSKI  frum t33eolleges and~mt\·er  
N.,..tduor  s1Ues al&o anended thfo ~ere  
mony  
Saytnl Not~ Dame llu atm  In  h.UIIIIaUi'JI"&l  addreu  
portanl mwtOn to play u  a  Malloy  111d  Notre  Dame's  
Cat/w:lllcuruvenlly.f'atherEd·  jp"tlteli\SlreJJith.u;t\.5  'dl5  
wardMalloywutnal,lgurated  IJ.no:Uve~~sare\~g~ousm  
the t51.hpr"tdentofthe Crn·  aututton"  
vently Wednaday at the Joyce  Quotms tho:­statutes of the  
ACC  't.:ruven1ty  Mlilloy ntd  'the  
"Notre Dame llu 1 mwton  euentta!characterofthet:ru·  
ofaervlcetosootetyandthe  ver.ttyuaCathohc1D$Ulunon  
Church. Htd MaUoy. the fll'&t  ofh.tgherlearntns.lh.a.llataU  
Notrf Dame prestdent to  be  tlmesbemamtamed  
honored  with  a  formal  In·  ·•1 fully s~pport that  man·  
aucurauon  date,''htt.atd  
"lam def!ply hoMred to he  · Notre Dame will conll.nue  
(Notre Oame'al prutdenl." he  ~~eU.J:OnsciG~Uoiy  ~nd  proudly  
u<d  prodllmlltiitaelftobeaCath  
"FatherMalloy,onbeii.Uof  olicwuveralty."' htwd  
tbetrultoelollheUnlvenllyl  At  the ume lime,  Malloy  
commmdtoyouthep1'81tden  wd, Notn Dame will rema111  
liaJ leadenlup of the Urnver­ academ1c,.Uy  free  ··Notre  
atty of Notre Dame and offi  DameLJanopenlnrumwbere  
dally IDV•t you  &I ILII&tb  o;bv~  Ylewpo:>mt&  can  be  
~.·....w.c:tw.trmanof  freely  &Pd.  cn.Uc.lly  dis.  
lbeNotn!DameBoardofTrua·  CUAed,. t.euid  
~e.l)orr.ald KtiOIJih  "TO me. then II OOU1Jnllll·  
"We  welcolftf  you  to  tbe  hmm!Jy  llle'Ompat.able  be­ 
rlibLI and rwponatbllllle5 of  tween  .c:aderruc  uc-ell~ce  
t.bi1  offke.  Mid  Keoue/1  aodtheWtoffanhfuldill:iple:l  
r:..~medalarcundMal·  lu~oy ..ld Notn Damf. WLll  
.........., .......... ,...... ur-w.....,..ttw......... ,..,...,...,,.,.,.o.-,_~ .......... ..........,. ................ c-.  ~ tlonln~t.-.JoyotACC.n.--.~n~tomw~ ,......_ ~ .. ""'"o.r..........""".........  AboUt UOO adnwultraton ~.faculty.&DdltudenLI ptblnd Ill the JACC for the Cft'eiiiOO)' ~LallY•  coaUDI.M' to empbuW! academtC!I over athletla ··we -IIIAU.OY.~I  

Thousands attend historic inauguration ceremonies 

tmXftllOIIofPflt'Ultrt'nt· a...·e·tnlptrLDtl"'lll'er)'llladay REGlS COCClA 
v~lty lrustHS and tobeapartoflt 
dtJILnguu.lied guaU mo1·ed Sophomol'e Vtlflllll Coluect 
'nloldandlo!st~nh. fac mtotheJACCforMalloy'afor· utdlhe..,ut.UentnbyMal ulty. 1lumru and 175 collere maJ inllllllatiOII II the lUI loy's ln&UIIIr&l addrn.a He prnidentaandaudemtcoffl teenth prestdent of Sotl'e &uea!'eallyLntereaiLDiad 
eva attended tM h.lltor•c Dame Musw wu provtded by ck'eN and I wutmprnaed by III.IUCW-'ton ceremony of l:nt the L'ntveralty Cancer! Band thenumbrrofuntvennUn;that 
AaulaniN~Ed't"' 

vtnll.y Pmudenl FatMr £d •ttellded ll"''lllbeauuful wa-d :.talloy saM! Richard 
Many who aUenMd were tm cel'emOII>' n;peo:Lally the ConklLD. dtrtdOI' of Pubhc 
pressed by the histone event mua•~: theulll IWJat101111nd lnformiiiOII the flnt ume the t:ntventty AmOI'lltn&MaulntheJoy« ltll Lnaucunled one of IU SeveralJTaduate student. ACC be1an Wednnday·s m presidents aba anended the eon\'OCitlon 
lthoulj:tltllll'liabnuufuJ LouSinni.&I9&41TidU&teandi:t!:~v,~t•H~~~~;~n[~ n~l'emony." ulll sophomore former Hoi~ Crou Assoctate brary mall an and~'"'~ M1ura Hogan "It 'A'IJ rull>' notf'dMallo)''lapeeehtouehed 
Biden withdraws from race 
hoeellltt'dPrru the W('l)nd eandtdate to be Supreme Court nomtnalton of 
forel!(o from thence! b~·ques Robert Bork 
WASHI\'GTOS Sen Jowph hona of character <tnd In· ·And althoUij:h 11'1 &ll'full)' Btdenendrdhu;quelitforthe tegnt~ cleartome..,·hatchoteelha•·e 19111 Ot!mocr1hc prutdenual I m1de some mistakes to make. I have to tell )'011 nomm1toon "'tlh tncrf'dtble Btdenhts"'tfeathtJSidetold hone"J,·Idott"'·Hhtneredtble 
reluctlll<:t' an Wednnd•Y a room cro"'ded ""llh reluctaiiCfl and 11 malin me 

•aytna the eugeratf'd reponers ·~o..,theenger •111ry rm IIIU>' "''lth m)'self 
shado" of ml5tlkt5madell ated ohadii'A of tho&e mts!UH rorha•'tlllbeenputtnthep~~­ompoulbleto\OnllnlH'hl!eJn hubef:untoobseurethees· 11Uon put myself mthe poll· 1tdac-;. wnc.oof mycanc:bdac~·andthe 
IICI!l of ha•·tntlo make thti 81Mn "nhdr•" !rom tlw HWf1Ct o1 Jot' B1Mn cho\Cfl .. henid .am~u~n ;o.lter a 'APt'k tn And lam no lH& fTI.IIIUted "'htch hu r•mpa11n .. u Btden561dhehadtoeh­
at the en~trOnment of prestden· rockf'd b1 <tdmtUIOIII of bel"ooen contmumc h11 pla&tansm ilnd false cl;urns presidenu•l eamp111n and 
::r~~:~t't~~·'c~ue.:~:~:~n 
~bout i'uo 01\idemtc l'e<:Ord chlltrtn&theSenateJI>IIIctar) p!'Oplemeuurethe"'holeJoe Th~ Df>li'Aift' Ot!moerll LS C'ommti!H he11nngs on the Btden 
on weaknnR~ u well u llrenlllll "I wu Impressed w1lh the way he ltressed the atluaiLon 
wtlhmlnont~esandhowheem 
phuiUd that we have to JI'O"' totetheruauntventtyandto rucll out to thoH in r>ftd beyond ourcommuruty. und Nan11l. aclosefrlendofthel'lf\11 prn;tdent 
"I'm real neU~ about the whole preatdellCy and ltllmk 
~;: •..g:e~.'jr:i~~~t·~ ~~~: bz:k~,~~d;,:•:nt1~ 
of the COllllll')' to be 1101\h Monk onthLSspecl.llday.··hesatd 
Alumru reprHI!nUoUVfl from CalLfonua Colorado. Ken· tuclly. Mtdugan ilt1d Mm nesota were pnsent for the LD· aupatum. said Charln; Lennon. ueeuuve dtreelor of theAlumlllAuoo:•allon 
"rd uy there w~re approlu mately1'i0Lalumnll.''Uonnon utd 'About ZO tru&tl!ft are alumntand there's no way of 
~:;S:Ut::O~oom:.ie :~:"' 
-"EACTQ. ,.. 3 
Fundraising begins for Literary Festival 
By COt"RTSE\' sponsoredtlweHnttnpre JAMIESOS 
Vl0115 ~·ea!"ll. satd Chatrmln s~•Si•ll 
Mike Even ·we are worktngll'tth iln hl5tor~cally The plannm& commti!Pt' lii'AbudgetlhtJrur ntd 
for the t"·entteth annual E\·C't:'s addtn& the commu 
Sophomore Lnerary Fu tH plans to ra1sr S3000 to 
uvJl 11 buly fundntltnl helpfm.aneesllpendsforthe 
sctwdulln& "'Tll~n. ;o.nd r,wrdtnatm&eventlfDI'Feb 
~~~~o~'1r.!ore:~~~:t"d'rr I 
1Hll.\hewftkol\~lt$ 
UVII The Sophomore Lllerln 
I 
Tbe fundriLStnl dn1·e Fn;uval 11 a cruc111 part of 
::f:;~:. "":!.;~ ~ ::7e~;:~z~~~~}~~C\I~'~d,:~:'! 1 soUtotfuncbfromal'eabust 
L.::'"""=-":::':::"':__::':.:•n:__:-="'::."'_"--'.·c;.-_:_'___J 



ACCENT:Hockney exhibits 'real' photos 

_jl;;,:..;;:--_-;: l. 
VIEWPOINT: New Jersey: hardly Hell 1-··-·~~~
.......,...,.."··-....... "'" -
Ihe Obset:Ver 
I' I. !. J!!. ;, I·; !ik#Q@. l.!!iJ·f! ¥ 1·+f•'I 

Task forces release recommendations 

ACCENT: The light at the end of the tunnel j\ ;;:::,:::.::·: ·:,::1::;·1 VIEWPOINT: All brass but no class ~. ::.::::r.:-;-.: ..A. . 
'I~h~O~ 
Summit details still unclear 
..------..................... -__ ... .... 
"" .......... ~
......................_''""''... 
........ . .... ...
~~~· 

University president for 35 years. 
2 
Task force 

reports released 
A yearlong study of campus life commissioned by. . University President Father Edward Malloy culmmated m the release of four task force reports on April 6. The task forces made a number of recommendations in each area. Topics studied by the task forces were; marriage .and. family; use and abuse of alcohol; quality of teachmg m a research university; and residentiality. 
Minority enrollment plan announced 
3 
The University announced a plan on Feb. 23 to increase minority enrollment over the next four years through a $12 million endowment fund for minority financial aid. A Committee on Minority Students, appointed by University President Father Edward Malloy in 1986, made 12 recommendations it felt would enhance all aspects of minority life at Notre Dame. 
4 
Honor code 
implemented 
Courses were offered under an honor code in the spring 
semester of 1988. Sixty percent of the freshman courses 
and some upperclass courses were included in the honor 
code, which permitted to students to take unproctored exams. Students enrolled in honor code courses were 
required to sign a pledge to uphold academic honesty in 
the classroom. No violations of the honor code were 
reported during the semester. 

The "Gipper" remembers Rockne 
5 
President Ronald Reagan visited Notre Dame for the second time in his two terms in office. On March 9, Reagan spoke to a packed Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center during a ceremony to dedicate a stamp commemorating the late Knute Rockne, Notre Dame's legendary football coach. Reagan portrayed George Gipp, one of Rockne's most famous players, in the 1940 film, "Knute Rockne, All-American." 

ACCENT: Kodak's new creations ]!!;~";'?!.-:: -· i
1

•VIEWPOINT: Turned_awa.~ from Reagan -§_~"7,,:;::: .I.I 

J! g ./ ·lih'M .lliH 1f1l.ff@l 1 

I 
..__·-------··· -------···-·.."··-·------· ···--·-···--..·-·-··­

---·-----..., 
~r-~------------------------------------------------------------------~~~8~10~-~11 

1 Brown is tops ..... 
: 

lilt• mdc•pl'llffrnl tWw<op.ljlN "''11111111 Null!• 0,11111' IIIII S,!ll>l M.11y • 
It was a runaway. Irish flanker Tim Brown finished 611 points ahead of Syracuse quarterback Don McPherson in the 
Brown wins Heisman with surprising ease 

8) DF.NNIM ('IIRRUi,.\N rul d111t I IUttu tllllttt vntn Drown f1n111wd thr-)'111t with !lpurtoio:dllor ...,. In before lut W<'l'kfnd 1,147 1llpurpo.r y,rd1 1nd 
balloting to become Notre Dame's seventh Reisman Trophy 
o\hto Z40 Notrp ll•m•l011a to ~evtn tuuehdowna llr w11 

liNt;:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;:; M:;::s:.~ ~llllaum, Holy ~h.m~~~,b~~~~~:~IM~:lt!': Truphy awardro rtli'f'muny Wll CI'OIII two w•y lhrrll, hn11hrd C1mp t'oundlrtton and !ktlpp~ 
winner as college football's best player. Brown holds Irish 
II'LIIIIhlff' wu no lllrprl.. third wllh M7 pu1n\1, lollowrd Howard Ntowl S.rvu'C! II<' hu 
Nnttf ll•m~• wnlot mull! 
~!nr=~~~~ ~~~':n':~PLtk ~~:"t~~~fl~~=~~ 

career records for pass receptions, kickoff return yards,
purpo~or bafk T1m Drown 
tJbur111 • runnlntt .,.ck Cl'lll Pnu !lhtt lint 111'111' tho:o Af' ... 

Onplle tlor'" 111 '"'""' IO't'elll ll•rwttd wllh 1111 BroWn~~~ l«<l'dapllfl'Tuarfoturnape
whw-hmadfohlmatudd.nun 
tunodhvtoltht'llll't'IIO!III 111 r•alistl tlwl:lmpJI'oundliiDn 
thf ~oltnJ MrPI!Itnon won 1n Uw F'ootbtll WroteoMI A.._.u• 

combined kick and punt return yards and all-purpose yards. 
~~~fu!0r:.';.~ ~~~~ s~~:! 
till' NortMili 11011 of AmPtll'l, Kod1k ltllhlnow,llhlnkrvfryollt' IAmertun ~'oothall t'oarh<'J ~;.~h::unlilllfllrllark Uon ll'tH.JndhiTf',llltlurlllliJm)'Kif. AaiOCIIliOnl. !WIIppt;llOWITd 
dayntllhl lar!KIIdlllln('lllll 
He returned three punts for touchdowns in 1987, leading Notre 
11 m 1 ol1tr of l~k." Drnwn and Footbill N•'"• 
1111dnfwlnnln1 "lretll)'don't

·r thm~ lt 10111 wltliulll 
IIYIIII(. IJ.IJI I'm truly l">ll!lr~d Krnw11 hold~ Notl"'! Ibm~
pav-"

h> Ill! ~Iandini h<ofor.. yPII tt.ltman ~011119. nr...,rrl't'ordalorpiiii"\'C'tiP 
toohoy, Rrownuldllllft'l'pl lion yanb 12,(\I.Jo, kl~kofl 
Dame to an appearance in a major bowl for the first time 
know whll lo ta)' about the 

Inti IM IWitd ltom F.UI~IN' 1'1'turll)'lrdii\.IIJI.l'Offibllll!d
llf'llman ILhLnlltnarouple-of ycoanfrom-l'llr..ahw

Mryn !liP prnodl'lll.,olt!V kock rfturn •2,oet•.1rlckofl 
Downtown Alhlfollc 1'11111 ''ld ""UI'fllfor IOIH'hdownto 131,
wl'llll II m...llll 
since 1981.

hkf'IO!Ikflhllopput!UnllyiD and punt rotlurnaiDftouch 
lhllnk myroa....._ m) lurrl "My flnllmohon wu thllt I down& !3, all In 1111, whl• 't 11 
ju.t Wlnlrd to tT)' bft'IIIM' I 11141111!11011mlf)ll 

tonlllorlilrklnlb)'m.. thr!Kllh wur.orlofl'l'hevedthlti'V1!1')' lfrgwnlltl'll'wvt'llthpllytor 
IIIP bad hmn and lhl' lfOdd 
Umn (iodhiH.S)'I)IIII1' 1 
maln.anddefln11f'lymyp.t~r 
~~'":v~:;o':.h 1~:::; ~~:11';'~ lrom Nlllrt nem" to wtn Ill<' happy. lod my n~~rl'll'l an Hto11m111 Trophy, tile ma.tfor Druwn flnlo<~w• wllll 1,442 heppy We doll'! knnw IWhfl'l' anyarllool Drowottthu<'<'ond 
yet, but

~:~~,~~~~~~~f~!~1,~! ~~·~:~~~y1 ;~.~:·~.11 ~~hn~~~E~~·:!fE~ 
aurJM'lll! 1t thf mlll(ln !ll Vlt' Afte-r the award Brown Dany O'Bnro 11'1 IM first tory l'ft'etVI'd tht llbh111ory phlone t1me In Htollman lltatory th11 ltl\oujlhlllllattlw mar11n> nil from Prnldenl Ron11d lwo wlnnrn have bftn from 
;:~::~:=5d~~: H~~:nfOIIITIIulllod ""' far :1~~:::~~~:: ~~~~ :':::.'::~~~~~..·~~ 
~:'i;:!~~·;ro.::ll: llld « the ~•II -IJtOWH, ..... tl 
Protests in USSR and U.S. occur as summit nears 
... ._,,~ PnH Mlmmit. liorbll:lwv heidi to Afknowledlq 1 lhlft In llw 
~::~':"~~~=·~~~~::. 

W.UifiNIJTON llov~ and ~~~:-;of ~111~=-r.n:.a;r ::.~~~~ .';::~W~~:~:: pnn~ldent ab.ndon DDI Ill' rediiC1! !DI or pol!potw SOl, whll'hhe'IIIDIIIOU\IIodo"
:~:~a::~hi·Ei~ ~::~:::t~~~~:::E ~I.~~~~~::_~~~~:.: 
Munwhlle, • CI'OWd O!SU IIIII 1 n~mpromiM on 'llar 1111Miin dN,, over ihrM H""'"'" iJI.ft llld tlw Kr~m matedbypollntntlwulllf!of Wan lnhlllll,....lbk' wtu~ )'9an ltn'apor.lloro 'lll'•._•llltlfdrf 100.(1(10 looil p.!1111 Ill I 
dt'monatnhon mal't'h and raU~

:~a-;~;~":':-*:: ,,.::':r':em~~~:r:. :::':",';.·•::::.":,'o,11;.: mWul'll"'lonteprnaforfrH 
marl'9fl ptotnl 1n MMl-1111 1-•nl a llooktK a(tHnwrll to monlhl 1110 · ~mlfjnllan Ill !kw~ J..,., 4trwronod dttl••-•• on 011 ....,,.. llnlqM: nu lntii'T'V-..donNBl"a ·M..,t l.cd by author Ellt' W-1 human roJtflt• dear-·~ by I'LIIIf. p.!IIVIIII tt. l'nu,' Rallt'r prl'dk't.-1 •nd Sovit't tm••~ Nat•n 
Thill-m~ho •It•• thr IIW way !Dr anotlwf 1umm11 by thllt Uurbut.v woulcl muv• Sharalllllly, the demonatnlon lorr•llupull,..l••l•upr..,......,r M•tJUIWin tiiiii<'OW forward on litai..I~W<IIp>fl nnlecllllnlllklllti''Wherell 
Survey verified, varied attitudes found 
"' Jl\t Hll.t:l' l'IIOIIIh tu ~ thlllllllrdn an tnt..rall'd p.illrt of IM Stu wu no •lllllllc1nl chilli" 111 e>IU•IIudttMbodruawhot.. deniBody'''onlyiDprl't'lntuf tlwrnul\lofllwquntiOIIIper ~«erdlnt lethe tlllllfnb ,radwitt"lludentlllldllwydid lallllnt to aleohol wlwn 
hnultollf 1 .....-.4 Mudr!oi 11w tllillornb wie<'tecl 1 rep-('Ompolrl'd •tlh .txlui 14 per II'IIIUIIIt lludmtl 'ftft In -urv.-.IIAW"•'IftllfiiV<Iilwpn l"'''lfttall,.wml'lteltlwq~~n t'lllltflflhru..,ll'adl dudlodintl•aurvt"y,,eamow hm>IWirtllnd•,.•llllw-r t-u...tb)'ollldltrlil"""'" Hlf:hrt' perrema... r:ll IIIII 
•t•lfl.-..lbttlu6t'IIIIUVIffl lllf'lll •rill nii'ICtuctfd 1111 aracluate ttudenta rall'd ftc "Wtwtn' tbleotoafl mon ""'"' hul tlwl I'LII.,. .,... o.ur~o b).,._... uhy apprl>lfhtbtllly 11 ~ fNd.,.f~ ebout lhl qUitiiM>no '"""'"'luut.o~~mrlltll•noncH 
•~·l•..,n tlw •lllludM of ";::h'r:t\~d:'~'~ ~~::! :..O:::u:.:~~":n ::~~ ;~~!~a:;:)~;..;:.:' 1 oulu.oiO';Iui!O'nl•.ondundO'r r•autta of the llludltnt lo,..,n albly be altrlblltld to IM Ide• potntld oot Vielk~~H~H tn two ~ ...... m•nl IUrYiy llld Ktlhleorn IIIII 111111111' diiiiH for ll'ld Ill 1M lllfVIt)' qu..tlonl. I<'<'<Jt 
riM· oUf\t'\ ull'ldu<ittl b)' rolctiowen OM oltllto Jhrclenll llwt.nta IIVIt mor• 0111 011 ont dlqto Fearnow. · '" o.l~lleln• oiiNIPnil uM"d 1 
•llft'•n•"'llal•tud..nl••• w'::;,:~.~"'::~rrftl "'""" ~=~~'7~· o1':: It'!:;~~ Many atlidltnll "....n ulltllr<' ....,.......l•olhihoJotl.U'Itll ltl'ld\lal• tllldentJ wer• In wha ~ondurtl>d lhlaurvey wlwrtt to lllln' lhl'maelvn on 
"·~· •"" "'"'•"'""' liw' olu r"*dlnlhlaurMt Tlllaui"VV)'I'IIUI\Iauuftl.cl tlw "How uft<'ll do you dronll 
In ln&-r to tlw qunt111n lhlidriMtn&h•blti('IIT)'DVfl
''"'"''",..."'"""•) Rul
..........,..........,"" 

IJorou~idll'yourwtltobfo lo'frlll~~ehaolbec•oarlheft' 
ACCENT• A Domer success story ~~-;::::; :: 1 
1 VIEWPOINT: Some unexpected prals~[f:;:;·.~ ':::. .A.' 
Wright: 
ND settles for 
Plan ne.eds 
Cotton Bowl bid 
GOP help 
,.,...................... 
... ~ .....,,..._ol_,,
,.•,1,_ ........ _ .. 
--J···"-"""''-1' .. ,....-................,...
........................ 
__....,..r, 
ott........­
......_,....,~, 


·-· 

~!H~~f:~:.~:~·.··. ·~'f~~~)~.f.~~~~ 
~.-·-~··=~·~··::~.~.··.~.:-:·._'.':··· ~~1:.~~~~:
.... 
..•::.~:·.·.~.~.·,·.' ..:.:·.:.·::.·:,.:.

~~:~_ ~~:.:. ~;~~~ 
~.1·~·:=r~~; ;.:::i~~~~-=.:.:.~ ~---~==-.::-..-:-~ ....~ ..~":.·.~-:::,.'!-:~;:;:~~ 
Wlnlef ul dluonleflt "';i.."i',::'.':':::'!',::':".-,..~':":!"''::.~·· ·-· 
..~.:==:.~. ~·:~..g~~~~~;~::~ ~~·~~=~~:::~.:~ 
Episcopalian priest not allowed to hold services 

Sports 

Rosenthal named new Notre Dame A.D. 
Former banker takes over as Corngan goes to ACC 
........... 
.... ,.......... '·' 
"'"'"""'""'''""'"' 

.. ·''-" ~ .' "'"''"' 
''"" I"'" ~-lor•l ,. ' "' o•• ••1o "' . '
~,. ""'' . ,.. ,..,.................... 
....._ .................. '•<I~" ............ "' "" •y ....... 1................ ,. 
,·~ ~~;,;~£3 ~~~:~~~ 
fCl' I _...., ·.~ 
?.~~~·~ ~f=~;~] 
""... ~ ... _.. ..,.._ .........,.....-,..­
..-.,_... ,~ ....... '"""''""'_ ........,. 
:fh~~"]g;. ~:..=~~=;:~ ~f.~~i ~~~~i~ 

~~;.~~~i!:;.lftw~~wt''~";' ol David Soll\l' eai'Tifd .,.n nen with the runnnufpeopltt rfiUMidpermtltlontollaveotlw Soviet Un1011 
"NocampalndpriSOIIICin nii"'UJ..h tlw l~thl 1nd flndll' of freedom," Shll'll'llk)' told Uw aowd 
Rr•t•n did nol allrnd thr nlly,butlw pll'dll'fl hllaup 
-SUMMIT, 
New office on drugs begins work 
!!.,.~~~ \'N !UMMONS
1 
'tlwdlrMiorgftllt'UIIIver llly'atw• Offit'<'Of All'Ohul tnd Dru1 F.ducallnn. D1v1d D1nn1aon, 11ot11n work laal w""'k 11drd b~· a ftJ,II56 lnntfi'Omllll' · •partmrnt of Edllflllon 
Dannr141n.•lotronthrn Pllilll s..nton Harhur ~h lll<llllt'olftrr.,rllbfoan 

2 Destination Dallas 
All the Orange Bowl talk subsided after Tony Rice was stopped short of a two-point conversion at Penn State and the Nittany Lions defeated the Irish 21-20. That made Notre Dame 8-2 on the season, and Head Coach Lou Holtz and Athletic Department officials accepted a bid to the Cotton Bowl immediately after the loss. The Irish met Texas A&M on New Year's Day and were manhandled 35-10. 
One more time 

3 
Molly Sullivan did it again. The first woman ever to attend Notre Dame on a fencing scholarship finished her college career by winning her second National Championship in three years. She also won the individual title as a sophomore. This time, Sullivan avenged three team losses to Wayne State by defeating Wayne State's Loredana Ranza 9-7 in the individual final. Sullivan is first on Notre Dame's all-time victory list and a four-time All-American. 
4 
Rosenthal named athletic director 
Before the school year began, a former banker was named Gene Corrigan's replacement as Notre Dame athletic director as Richard A. Rosenthal took the post Aug. 4. Rosenthal is a Notre Dame alumnus, former chief executive of St. Joseph Bank and Trust Co., and a former captain of the Notre Dame basketball team. He was an All-American his junior and senior years for the Irish. 
One out, three in 

5In the biggest moves under Rosenthal, three women's sports were promoted from club to varsity status, while field hockey was dropped from varsity to the club level. Women's golf, soccer and softball received the promotions. The absence of varsity field hockey at other Midwestern schools was cited as a major reason for the field hockey demotion. In addition, Rosenthal announced that six sports will receive additional scholarships beginning in the 1988-89 academic year. 

Sports 
Three women's clubs reach varsity level 
lhl'llllollol\ Uo•O.. _,_,_,,. ....... -......,,,.,.,,..........,loN .• .,_.. ,.,, 
IIEli~ 
McGraw's Irish: 
~11~~~~ running I--~-"'"' .......... 
I ~--~~-.:.--.-~··::::.:.··­
•
C' 

-·---·-·--____..,_______ 
8c;;rir;gl;~p.'7oCQ"hpj;y-down 1n 87-88 interhall hockey action 
~~a~tla 
r-----~--~------­
Friday, May 13, 1988
The Observer
page 12 

--~-~~---~ -----~~----------~~~------~ 
-~-------------~--­
Garrett heading to NCAAs 
By BRIAN O'GARA ach Joe Piane. "He's a great "But I've got some time-­
leader, was sixth in cross the NCAAs are still a long Sports Writer country and is one of the top way off." 
Notre Dame's Dan Gar-5,000 runners in the country. rett is once again en route I have high expectations for Before the NCAA Cham­to the NCAA Champion-him at the NCAAs." pionships, which will be held ships. Though a senior, Garrett in Eugene, Oregon, Garrett 
The senior pulled off a retains a year of eligibility and 16 teammates will surprising sixth-place finish after sitting out his sopho-travel to the IC4A Cham­at the NCAA Cross Country more year with an injury· He pionships in Philadelphia Championships last fall, and hopes to be accepted into next weekend. More Irish will make a run at another Notre Dame's graduate pro-runners will have an oppor­all-America performance at gram and pursue a M.S.A. tunity to qualify for the the NCAA Outdoor Track degree while running next IC4As this weekend at the 11­Championships in June. The year. linois Twilight Invitational senior from Clarence Cen-Garrett has been ham-in Champaign, Ill. ter, N.Y., qualified for the pered recently by tendonitis NCAAs in the 5,000 meters inthekneewhichhesuffered Among those at a meet last month at Stan-in a post-Penn Relays going to the IC4As are some ford with a school-record workout. who hope to join Garrett at time of 13:53:52. The NCAA "lwasrunningsomeofthe the NCAAs. According to qualifying time for the 5,000 hills out there during a Piane, senior Tom Mick meters is 13:57:00. Garrett workout after the relays (hammer), senior Rick Mul­then re-qualified for the when I hurt the knee," vey (steeplechase), sopho-NCAAs at the Penn Relays recalled Garrett. "There are more Mike O'Connor (5,000 with a 13:57:97 and a third-meters) and freshman Ryan place finish. no hills in Indiana so I guess Mihalko (javelin) all have a 
"Dan has had a really my legs were a little shot at the NCAAs with a solid year across the surprised to be doing that good showing in Philadel­board," said Irish track co-stuff. phia.
~~~:........:=~~~~~:.::..._-=~---------....:_-----------' 
Knight weighs move decision 
Associated Press cials, who originally hoped to like that since I've been at In­announce the name of a new diana," Knight said. "It's time coach by Friday, said negotia­to make that kind of decision. 
BLOOMINGTON tions likely will continue until It's a personal decision. I'll Thousands of Indiana Univer­next week. have to leave it at that. I'm not sity basketball fans rallied on Knight, talking to reporters going to get into the whys or campus Thursday in an at­before speaking Thursday wherefores. I've got to make it tempt to persuade Coach Bob night at a sports banquet, indi­in the next couple of days." Knight not to leave for the cated he had not made up his vacant head coaching job at the mind whether he would leave "That's a part of the country University of New Mexico. Bloomington. that I enjoy very much," said 
Meanwhile New Mexico offi-"I have not made a decision Knight. 
More top sport stories 
Special To The Observer 
The 1987-88 school year had its share of major sports stories 
as  more  than  a  few  teams  
posted  reco rd-br eaking  
seasons.  

Though not among The Db­server's list of top five sports stories of the year, these teams and moments should be recog­nized as among the year's best stories. 
The soccer team fell just short of its goal to make the NCAA Tournament but had its best season ever none the less. Thelrishfinished17-3-linclud­ing a 4-3 overtime win over In­diana, which held the top spot in national polls for several weeks of the season. 
Notre Dame made its first appearance ever in a soccer Top 20 poll, but these ac­complishments would not pull weight with the NCAA selection committee which snubbed the Irish when tourney invitations were extended.
The Irish hockey team had a banner season in its first year under head coach Ric Schafer. The Irish went a school-record 27-4-1 and won the American Collegiate Hockey Association championship. It was the team's first winning season in three years, and as the wins mounted so did the attendance figures at home games. More than 25,000 people saw the Irish play at home. Another first-year coach led her squad back to its winning ways. Muffet McGraw coached the Irish to a 20-8 record which 
included a 78-66 victory at 17th­ranked Duke. 
The win was the first ever against a Top 20 team. Notre Dame led the nation in field goal shooting from the begin­ning of the season to the end behind the strong inside game of Heidi Bunek and Sandy Bot­ham. Botham and point guard Mary Gavin finished their careers as all-time Notre Dame leaders in several categories. Despite the renewed success, two close losses to North Star Conference rival DePaul may have cost the Irish a post-season bid. 
In the madness called Bookstore Basketball XVII, the Adworks All-stars, led by tournament MVP Gary Voce, topped Tequila White Lightn­ing 21-18 to capture the title. 
The all-weather, month-long tournament once again grew to a record number of teams, this time consisting of 666 teams of contenders and pretenders. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team had an up-and­down season but still captured its fourth-straight NCAA Tournament bid. SMU knocked out the Irish (20-9) in the first round of the East Regional 83­
75. Along the way, the Irish up­set Louisville and eventual Na­tional Champion Kansas. David Rivers became the third player in Notre Dame history to score more than 2,000 points,ending his college career as the third-leading scorer in team history with 2,058 points. 

n.a..-Notnt Dame oftk:e, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, .:cepta classified .s-tlslng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvough Frtdar. 'T'M a..-Saint Mery's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, .:cepta c'-lfleda from 12:30 p.rn. untll3 p.rn., Monday through Frtdar. Deadline for next-day claaalfleda Ia 3 p.rn. All claaalfleda rnuat 
Classifieds be pntpald, eltt.r In person Of by mail. The charge Ia 10 cents per five charaiCtera per day. 
THANKS TRACY FOR ALL THE HELP WITH THE BUSINESS DEPART. YOU 
M.J.. Laurie, Monica ... The B.P. B---·es ... Jill, Jenn, and Jennifer 

Can you buy Jeeps, Cars, 4 x 4's Seized You will be missedl!ll Don't forget your Hey, it's been a good time these years,in drug raids for under $1 00.00? Call for favorite underclassmen !Ill We love you!! MADE A DIFFERENCE! GOOD LUCK! right? Engagements, VCRs, Miami trips, 
~-N_O_TIC_E_S~~~~--FO_R_S_A_LE~ 
facts today. 602·837·3401, Ext. 881. KEEP IN TOUCHI AND TAKE CAREl ADOPTION: Loving couple, phyalclan JOHN AND TODD 
IBM PC?<T Model 086 The ex-Pebble Beachersllll Boris finding the door, and the infamous 
10Mb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Koppel, PA trip. What more could oneand paychologlat, deeply wlahaa to Quadram CGA color monitor_ $1,600 SPECIAL SUMMER OFFER To our favorite fifth roommate, T.D.IIII ask for as Notre Dame moments? Best
adopt newbOrn. Welcoming wann lllm­25 PER CENT OFF KAPLAN GMAT, To the NICE GUYS:
price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, Pebble Beach will never be the same of luck to all of you. AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. again!!! You will lorever be my Fatal AI· Scott
lly, love, opportunltleal Expenaea LSAT, MCAT, GRE OR NCLEX PREP Mark, thank you for Horror Movies and po~lcl. Legal, confidential. Call Ellie and COURSES. NOW THRU &-15-88 FOR letting me fall in the bush.
DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO traction!!! I Love Youllll
Alan collect 212-724-7942. SOIITH BEND SIGN UPS ONLY. Greg, thank you for helping me appreci·
and other software packages also avail­
TRANSFER ANYWHERE IN USA -ate "Farm Related Activities"
able. For more information, call Mike Brian-
WORD¢PLUS SAVE $$$'Sill CALL 272-4135 FOR IN­Jim, thank you tor your paternal guidance 
Krager at 239· 7248 weekdays from 8 John Mosierlllll You are a god among Now you're going to be a senior. Seems 
Scholastic TypingEditing FO. (even when you didn't know you were
a.m. to 5 p.m. menlll Where have you been all of my like yesterday when the big snowstorm
Rush Jobs O.K. giving any). 
lite? hit and you were forced to see a South
256-30n HAPPY GRADUATION I will forever dig all your packages.
Ia It True You Can Buy Jeepa lor $44 Bend winter a year earty ... and you still
································································ 
Things will never be the same without
lllrough the U.S. government? Get the and Oh My God!! It's SNOTTOII\1 WATCH came here.._Thanka lor all of the support lecta todllyl Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. OUT PARAGUAYII Scott Baird is on the these years -you're a good friend.
HAPPY SUMMER you. Spending the summer in South Bend? to all "The Blonde." 
7318. way\ Here comes the cap~alist dictatorll Scott
Need some extra income? Doc Pierces 

AMY (Copy Center) Look lor the Special Observer Corre­
is hiring part-time food and cocktail ser· 

FOR SALE: BROTHER TYPEWRITER, spondent!
vers. Flexible hours. Must be 21. Apply Dennie Wennie Pookie Bear
2·STEREO SPEAKERS, BICYCLE·· marl< and Jim 3-6P.M. 120 N. Main St. Mishawaka. Coke Is~ :r~·~h~··s;;v~--~i-119·i:i:·si:·p~~~~-si~~~i·i, A.K.A. Dumbhead.
MUST SELL CALL 289·6623 AFTER Whether rt was The Observer or Senior 7:00PM What will we do without our off-campus Bar ·it's been a great lour years. If you 
You will still be the favorite part of my days. Love, San. 
home? Thanks for all the dinners and the lind yourselves needing a scoop on In­
SEE MY DISPLAY AD offering KNUTE available couchesl! I am still in the bed diana State Government or get In·
LOST/FOUND 

CONGRATULATIONS, DEBBIE Beanhead! want go David and Elizabeth 
ROCKNE 1DOth anniversary of birth com· wading I to to dianapolis, let me know. 
SUPER EFFORT, SUPER GIRL AND You're thinking "I came two thousand
memorative badges or send # 10 SASE Chicago with the cows !rom Minnesota. Scott 
SUPER FUTURE AHEAD. FOUND HP15c CALL 1453 miles lor this?"
for list of available rtems. BELLA BUT· I LOVE YOU BOYSIII\1 
LOVE, MAMA D. & DAD. Relax, it could still rainTONS. P. 0. Box 1953, South Bend, IN 
;:~·i;;~·s;;~i-B;;Yiri~;;;;~-~~-ih~·:;,~~.-;;::r·.-o::
46634·1953. Observer crewLOST: A blue-jean jacket with a set of 
Just wear the bandana and make the Good luck with what will be a bannerKEYS inside. Lost on Saturday April 23. DEBBIE, face and Boston will be under your spell. ································································ year. Don't overdo the Grand Slams and 
II found, pleasa call ·I need my keys Steve, John, Marl<, Norm, John, and Pat 
CONGRATULATIONS AND BEST 

Scotto-Oh..My God! The Peace Corps late nights.
backll Call Ellie at x1253. We really have nothing to say, except
WISHES. I AM REAL PROUD. 

doesn't know what they're subjecting the Scott
TICKETS 

that hell moves to Webster St.
JENNY people of Paraguay to! Stet-wherever 
John and Brian 
FOR RENT 
you are, I'll find you and wake you up! Bernadette I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA· Johnnie-my bestest boyfriend. I Love You sitting next to me as I type this so TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR Mentors You\ I had better make this quick. Thanks tor
F-SupMme 111\Cl All ante 
Overlorda: Thanks for your time, patience, advice 

BRIAN XXOO HEIDIHO a great semester ·what you will do without 
Here's something lor your scrapbook. 
me I don't know. Good thing Kate is still

NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO Good Luck. Remember your friends
and so much more. Knowing you guys NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR when you're driving one of these. 
HELPII I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big Kerry and Mary Beth·yThanks for some around. Remember, Stick wrth me Kid" 
has been an honor lor me and I just want 6838889 LA
$$$ Call Heidi 233-4176 great times! I'll never eat another devil Scott 
to say thanks lor the memories. Good dog without thinking of you! That's a bigi..i.iE'Er:;·;··C3iiA:o·':ric-·;so;.:;:r:;:M:5346.. luck wrth everything you do and may God tat I'll miss you on that one II guide each of you to success. Ciao, mio 
T.D. AND SCOTTO
... lratellil Kara England-WHEN THE MOON HITS YOUR EYE
Faithfully Yours, Regis 

Just remember . .lt's not easy being LAURIE H.,
.....____w_A_N_TE_o---JI ~-;~~;;~-~ 
LIKE A BIG PIZZA PIE, THATS
cheesyll No use crying over spilt milk Here's your personaL Best of luck in
AMORE ... BUT WHEN YOUR TWO FA·
unless it l<ills your mother\ I love you Chicago.
SUMMER JOBS VORITE BOYFRIENDS ARE
PHIL DESILVA: Soya did make rt into 
Babe!!

ALL LANDWATER SPORTS GRADUATING, THATS SADNESS
The Observer once before you PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK GONNA MISS YOU BOYSI!I!I
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, C. I love you. M_ 
CARRY OIIT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE graduated. Scott Bearby· If I stick wrth you where 
MOUNTAINS DON'T FORGET YOUR
-JR CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN· NANETTE...SHE LOVES YOU.
BLOCK SOIITH OF HOUDAY INN. will we go? Kate Bush will be singing you 1988 ··the year that I thought and hoped 
love songs forever! would never come -Congratulations and INGS 914 3814224 Students: Sell your unwanted class best of luck to all of you in the future and ANDY BAKERSHIRLEY G. 
books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Whatever ... 
ANDY BAKER thanks tor all the good times. Take care
We'll think of you at 12:22 each day. Need rida to Colorado during or following Thanka lor everything. ANDY BAKER and keep in touch ..... I know this isn'tHoward off ND Ave. 1Q-5:30, 7day&Week 
233·2342 HARD·ROCK\1 Can we rock before you
senior week. Willing to share expenses CONGRATULATIONS COUS\11 really personal, but I'll miss you aiL Love. 
leave me? I hope soli!
and provide sleepover lor those going to THIS OLD PLACE WON'T BE QUITE Rose
Brian Some people complain "I was a hostage OH, MY GOD, THEY'RE BACKit 

Cal~omia. Call Pete at x3105. THE SAME WITHOUT YOU. NOW WHO'S GOING TO KEEP AN EYE ON Greg, Jim, Kevin, S.ndy, Rose, Mimi,
the Labian Miners tor fifty...,ight days." But, we know they PEBBLE BEACH!! I love you all for the 
FEDERAL, STATE & CIVIL SERVICE ME?II LOVE YOUI\1 ANNETTE Scott, Regia, Mark, Chrla'a, Laura, 
are coming!!! got off light. (Start humming America The best year!! There will never be another.. Joba $18,400 to $89,891. NOW Hlrtngl Beautiful.) Let's just call this year an ex­I will miss it more than anything! Kim, Cathy, Lynaey, Liz, Dave, Phil, 
Call JOB LINE 1-5111-459-3811 Ext. ................................................................ Laurte, Shlrtey, all Obaerver typea,
perience. Remember, wort< above the F194 24 Hra. MARILYN from MARYLAND Congratula· etc., etc., 
second floor, find a new person lo cover, 
Michelle,

and make sure he owns a gun. I'll be tions, you made it. Thanks lor the t1mes:
Just think ·we have seen one another all 
1888 KNUTE ROCKNE 1988 Coke flying in for the Monday night bowling the Plunge, Stetson&tnystery guest, ap­Fill In uppy line hare. 
across the country even if we didn't at 
I WILL BUY your first day ceremony pro-plications and alcohol, the visijs, the
league, seeing that we'd never get dates 

NOOMC. Obviously, this means that we if I didn't. I don't want to spoil an emo­
grams $ 5.00 each -·mint condition only, phone calls, and for putting up with can· Thank• tor everything. (Thla eln't 
will continue to meet ·first in Orlando. your unusual first day covers; write first, ............................................................... . tional moment wrth Rock Me cranked up, Best of luck, although I know everything 
celled plans. You're great! !!IIIII Can't wait goodbye.) ·Mark P.
to see you this summer. Have a gooddescribe or send photocopies. E. Bella, Let's just get this over with so I can go but since when have emotions mattered? 
will be great. 4927 York Road, South Bend, IN 46614. home. 
one Love, Todd
Scott 

... 
FridAy, May 13, 1988 
Accent 

Just in time for a and a driver's 
Joe Duffy: A Second-Hand Friend 
n Saturday mornings, I put on their galoshes. Joe, 
have a program called I'm told, e'1]oyed being told "The Children's Hour," on how he should prepare him­WSND-FM radio. Two weeks self to face the day outside. ago, when Professor Duffy of On Saturdays when I was the English department away, he was impatient for died, the program lost its me to get back. to give him most faithful listener. advice. 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Joe Duffy never told me 
that he tuned in regularly to 
a radio broadcast which fea­
tures a gallery of characters 
ranging from Pooh-bear and 
Christopher Robin, Mr. Toad 
and Mr. Badger from "Wind 
in the Willows," to Asian the 
Lion-Lord of Narnia, 
Tolkien's hobbits and Saint­
Exupery's Little Prince. As a 
matter of fact. Joe Duffy 
never told me anything, be­
cause we were not per­
sonally acquainted, though 
we once had Thanksgiving 
dinner together as guests at 
the same dinner table. 
Many years ago, when the Scholastic solicited Joe's opinion, "Inter Alia," on campus life during the Vietnam era, he declined comment except for a quote from a poem: "Caged bird no sing." Why he felt caged, I no longer remember; but from that time on, I regarded him as a sensi­tive, reticent human being whose privacy must be respected. 
"I don't know if he ever respected me, but I trust that he did not refuse me his good will or affec­tion." 
Seeing him riding his blcicle on campus, or at lunch In the pay caf, I nodded at him, he nodded at me. Though I kept hoping to find him free of this cage, willing to sing, or at least to talk. It never happend. I grieved at this death, be­cause the caged bird, leaving, took his song with him, and now I will never hear it. 
Ten years ago, when he heard I was reading "omnia opera" of Charles Dickens, he sent me a coliecion of figures: Mrs. Gamp, Uriah Heep, Mr. Micawber and other characters from Dick­ens. He sent them through a mutual friend, with specific directions that he did not want to be thanked. It seemed clear to me that the caged bird was embarrassed by gratitude. 
Yet I spoke to Joe every Saturday on the radio. When you do a program, you're never sure If anyone Is lis­tenh1g. I knew Joe always listened, because his close friends told me so. Joe be­came the audience I was 
talking to, especially at the 
end of the hour, when I 
advised the "children" to 
dress warrnly or lightly, or Was he aware that I knew he was listening? I have never heard. The feedback from him came to me second­hand. He was unhappy when I changed versions of "The Teddy Bears' Picnic," the theme song with which the program opens. He didn't like the new version, and was annoyed with me for making a switch. This news blew my mind. Here was this scholarly professor with the 


I.Q. of a genius, a noted au­thority on Jane Austen and Dickens, a teacher of courses In meta-fiction 
This Impossible, charming 
curmudgeon got himself 
bent out of shape because I 
replaced the King Cole ar­
rangment of "Teddy Bears" 
with the King's Singers' ar­
rangement. Caged bird took 
his teddy bears to heart! 
I was aware, too, that Joe Duffy read this column weekly; and at times, he ex­pressed his annoyance at the sanitized picture of the world I painted. Knowing that the caged bird was monitoring my articles, out of repect for Joe as an ur­bane reader, I have tried to leave out silliness and sen­timentality which would cause him to wince in visible pain. 
His death was a disap­
pointment. I always hoped 
we would be together for an­
other Thanksgiving meal, 
which we would leave as 
cronies who got together to 
talk once a week. He knew 
so much that I need to hear; 
maybe I could have told him 
something cheerful that 
would relieve his pain. His 
pain was obvious, even from 
a distance. I suspect he was 
pained because he felt that 
losers, or phonies, or 
second-raters, or crooks, or 
blockheads, or the blind 
leading the blind, or unwor­
thies of one kind or another 
were in charge of the visible 
universe, and maybe he was 
unhappy with God for 
leading them there. 
It's strange that I'm writing this, since I wasn't ac­quainted with Joe. From a long distance away, I thought the world of Joe Duffy, the friend I knew second-hand through people we were both close to. I am writing this to make the sad­ness go away. 
On Saturday's "Children's Hour," perhaps I can report clear skies for the Com­mencment weekend. Joe, listening on a crystal set In heaven, will understand that I'm reporting to him. 
diploma license 
however, I kept to myself a lot. By junior year, I relaxed end got mellow", he says. "Now, most of my close friends are here, not at home anymore." 
In retrospect. Narciso ob­serves,"It seems the University watched me more than I was aware of at the time. Everyone thought I was very mature. I really wasn't. I faked it for awhile." 
As the time for leaving ap­proaches, Narciso contemplates his life here. "I am very glad that I decided to come here, this being the University that it is. The people I've met here are so cool-that is really not a good word-but it says ft. People accepted me here, they didn't try to isolate me. At a another University, I would have gotten a different reaction." 
Narciso plans on continuing his education at the University of California at Berkeley in the fall. He received a three-year tenure fellowship there and plans to continue Computer Science and Artificial Intelli­gence Research. He will also hold a graduate student teach­Ing position. At Berkeley, he hopes to earn a Masters Degree and get his PhD. He would ultimately like to work in the corporate world Involved on research. 
Narciso plans on returning to Notre Dame soon. "''ll definitely come back for a foot­ball game," he says. "''ll come back In the plaid pants, singing the fight song at the fifty-yard line." 
No more need be said. 
MARIA JUCIK accent writer 
G
raduating Magna Cum 
Laude, m(\jorlng In Math 
and Computing, and going on 
to graduate school are not un­
common events for a graduat­
ing college senior. They are 
extraordinary, however, when 
the graduate is 16 years old. 
Narciso Jaramillo, from Rialto, California, is graduating Magna Cum Laude with a major in Honors Math and Computing. Narciso came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1984, just one month after his thir­teenth birthday. 
Narciso learned to read at 
eighteen months. He started 
school a year early and then 
skipped the third, fourth, and 
sixth grades as well as his 
senior year In high school. 
"My parents never really pushed me," says Narciso. "When I was little, whenever I was bored, they gave me stuff to learn. They only did so If they thought I could, or wanted to, handle it. There was never any pressure." 
Narciso does not feel that he missed his childhood by start­ing school so early."''m just doing what I think is right rather than worrying about not having done it" observes Nar­ciso."I would rather worry about not having a 'normal' childhood." 
Narciso comes from a close family. His father is a director of information systems at a company In California and his mother is a homemaker. Nar­ciso's sister is earning her master's degree In Literary Criticism at New York Univer­sity. 

Notre Dame took Narciso un­der its wing when he first ar­rived here. Father Miceli, Rector of Cavanaugh, observed Nar­ciso at his arrival."Narciso struck me as being very mature for a 1.3-year-old. He fit in very well. He was the center of at­traction for awhile, but after that. everything was normal." 

Nercteo J..-.mlllo Those first days at Notre Dame were not as eventful as one may Imagine. The biggest problem,he recalls, was trying to deal with people. "Entering college was a bit different for me, rather than a 17 or 18­year-old. I had to learn how to deal with people and not take things so seriously," says Nar­ciso. "You've got to remember, I was a normal 1.3-year-old." After the initial shock of his age wore off for his fellow classmates and dorrnmates in Cavanaugh Hall, Narciso says people treated him normal­ly."The first two years here, 
A ~Raising of Spirits 
LYNSEY R. STRAND accent writer 
J\ fter four years of Notre nDame living, this graduat­Ing senior ponders, "What is the one word that describes life under the Dome?" The answer: Spirit reigns supreme at Notre Dame. 
It flows through all special and everyday events here. Spirit is what makes the people and the place. And once the two meet they are never the same. It Is in this meeting of spirits that gives Notre Dame Its essence. Notre Dame is rtiJuvenated year by year by new freshmen faces and con­tinual alumni pilgrimages. 
The Spirit of Notre Dame is most professed in its Catholic tradition: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. At Notre Dame, student faith is evident in the interest in dorm masses and participation in choirs at Sacred Heart Church. 
Another spirit honored at Notre Dame Is the famous Fightln' Irish football Spirit. This March, President Reagan, who played Notre Dame legend George Glpp, honored another legend Coach Knute Rockne, "Who did more spiritual good than a thousand preachers." 
In his speech commemorat­ing the Rockne Memorial Stamp, Reagan called to Rockne's great faith. "On or off the field, It is faith that makes the difference. It Is faith that makes things happen." 

A powerful moment des­cended upon the South Dome 
of the Joyce ACC almost four years ago. Parents were asked to raise their hands and invoke 
their blessing over their new­
fledged freshmen sons and 
daughters. This spiritual act 
symbolized the parents' sen­
ding off their children to the 
Notre Dame life. 
Notre Dame's legendary School Spirit is intricately linked to her Sports Spirit. Even the International Special Olympics made its way to Notre Dame last summer. The Spirit of Legends calls these names to mind: Hesburgh, Joyce, Moose, Rockne~ and the Four Horsemen. The Glpper is not only football legend, but a spirit in Notre Dame lore. The ghost of George Gipp is said to roam Washington Hall. 
Our Lady, Mary, raises her 
hands over all at Notre Dame. 
Symbolically, the Spirit Is In­
voked in the raising of hands. 
The Sacred Heart statue raises 
its hands to Our Lady, atop of 
the Golden Dome. "Touch 
Down Jesus" raises his hands 
over Knute Rockne's stadium to 
hail the winning play. The 1.32­
foot library stone mosaic Is 
patterned after Millard Sheet's "Word of Life" painting. Jesus calls us to search for the truth. 
Students raise the hands In 
class In hopes for the truth. 
The raising of hands is com­bined In the raising of voices during Notre Dame football games. A blanket of hopeful spirit falls upon the stadium as Irish fans raise their arms and shake their hands to the monotone hum of "Ahmmmmm." The Invoking of the Fighting Irish Spirit sounds like an ancient Celtic chant. 
The raising of voices calls the Spirit of Notre Dame, whe­ther in the SI)>Orts crowd's chanting "We are, ND. We are, 
ND." Strong loyalty to Notre Dame embodies her Spirit. Along with her teams, Notre Dame's stu­dents, alumni and fans display their fierce Flghtln' Irish Spirit by their resolute conviction to carry on the fight. "What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all." Perhaps, during our Bacca­laureate Mass on Saturday, our parents will be joined by Notre Dame's clergy, officers and fac­ulty In sending us off Into life by again raising their arrns and invoking their blessing. Again, 
we will be under the invoking 
of the Spirit. The Spirit of 
Notre Dame will always sparkle 
in their hearts and inspire them 
to bring love Into their lives. 

page 14 The Observer Friday, May 13, 1988 
Campus golf course due for summer renovations 

By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Student play always has been the top priority at Notre Dame's Burke Memorial Golf Course. That's not changing. 
But the course itself is on the move, as added funds and a little more attention should be providing students with better golfing and the school with more revenue from its 18-hole course in the near future. 
"We're doing some things to make it more enjoyable," said Sally Derengoski, who took the post of director of operations last year. · 
Dale Getz began as course superintendent last year, and works with Derengoski on a daily basis under the authority of Dr. Tom Kelly of Non­Varsity Athletics. The Athletic Department began running the course two-and-a-half years ago under former Athleti Director Gene Corrigan. 
"Gene Corrigan decided we could make some major course improvements to accomplish two things," Derengoski said. "It gives the students a better golf course, and also makes the course a better revenue source. Hopefully we can attract more public golfers over the summer months, because public golfing is our main source of revenue." 
An $80,000 project to rebuild 

all the tees and implement a 
computer-controlled irrigation 
system was one of the first im­
provements. 
"We started that a year 

ago," Getz noted. "There are 
liS new tees in play this year, 
and automatic irrigation on the 
tees and greens. That's a big 
help. Ifyou can't control water, 
you're going to have problems. 
Now we can do that by pushing 
a few buttons. 
No-hitter 

continued from page 20 
everything fell into place." 
Pat Pesavento led off the sixth inning with a triple and scored on a single by Steve Skupien to give Piotrowicz all the support he needed from the plate. 
Tim Hutson, Dan Peltier and Ed Lund each homered for Notre Dame in the first game. 
The Irish play host to the four-team MCC tournament one week from today, the win­
ner of which earns a spot in the NCAA Regionals. Notre Dame opens against Butler, while Detroit and Evansville meet in 
the first game at Jake Kline Field Friday. The Saturday and Sunday games of the double-elimination tournament 
are scheduled for Coveleski Stadium. 

now," Piotrowicz said. "It's going to be tough to win the MCC tournament. All the 


Burke Memorial Golf Course will undergo several improvements over the summer and coming years. 
"We also re-landscaped the No. 1 tee. Most golf courses will tell you that the first tee is al­ways in the worst shape, be­cause that's where traffic backs up the most. We've redesigned it so traffic is fil­tered around the tee area in­stead of over it." 
Other projects in the works include "edging" and replac­ing sand in the sand traps, and the replacement of hundreds of trees which have been lost to disease over the years. 
"Trees have been lost by the hundred without a major replanting," Getz said. "Last fall we planted 40 and 10 more this spring. I'd like to plant 40­50 trees a year for at least five or 10 years. 
"There are so many things you can do with trees to make the course more strategic. We 
teams are pretty tough, and Evansville will be especially hard to beat. But in a double­elimination tournament and with only four teams, we've got a great shot at it. 
"We realize now that we can win and the chemistry is there. We believe in ourselves, and we're going to be a tough team for people to beat." 
1888 KNUTE ROCKNE 1988 
1OOth Anniversary, Knute Rockne birth commemorative 
',.. badge. $1.25 each postpaid. ~ oOther Rockne items and first :J ·~day envelopes available; list 
C .. ~ ,a~a ....~ with order or send S.A.S.E. .p ,<;Ss .':-....,.... to: oC' , · 
1.;: 11e-r''' BELLA BUTTONS 


hope to make it more challeng­ing for the better golfer, with­out discouraging the novice or the student who hasn't played much by making it too difficult an experience. We feel we can make a course like that." 
A bridge will be built in mid­summer over an area on the seventh fairway which collects most of the course's water, Getz added. 
"It all starts with (University Vice President) Fr. (William) Beauchamp," Derengoski said. "He recog­nizes that, as a business ven­ture, this is a great opportunity. And when you can do something like that and also provide the students with a bet­ter service, it's worth putting some money into." 
The Pro Shop in Rockne 
Since final exam week, the Irish have swept five twinbills in five days. Notre Dame swept Valparaiso twice, Tri-State and Illinois-Chicago in addition to Ball State. 
Notre Dame faces the Uni­versity of Chicago in a doubleheader on Tuesday in the final regular-season games. 
Memorial also is being im­proved. The inventory has been increased "many times over," Derengoski said. 
Student passes are another effort to attract more students to the course. Two types of season passes will be offered to students in the fall. One will al­low unlimited play from the beginning of fall semester until fall break. The other will be geared toward students who stay over the summer, Deren­goski said. 
"The student turnout has been great," Derengoski said, adding that an estimated 68 percent of the rounds played on the course are played by stu­dents or faculty members of the University. "With all the improvements, we're trying to give the students a reason to get out and play more. 
"The course's philosophy has always been students first. That's how it will always be, and that's why the public events we hold have to wait un­til the school year is over. Now the students will have a better course to play, and we're hoping even more come out and take advantage of what we have to offer." 

Friday, May 13, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 
ball every year we were here, led by another of our class­mates, David Rivers. 
Rivers' graduation is itself a near miracle considering that at the halfway point of his and our college years, he lay in a hospital near death. He and the Irish came back from that 
In the past four years, the wo­men's basketball team went from regional heavyweight to the brink of national recogni­tion. Yes, two seniors, Mary Gavin and Sandy Botham were instrumental in this rebirth. Of­ten overlooked, this squad began to assert itself as more than just the "other" basket­ball team on campus. 
Our first fall under the Dome was also the first fall for Art Lambert and Dennis Grace. Over the course of our stay, they brought the volleyball and soccer teams to the edge of the national scene. Both squads have put together back-to-back record seasons. While Lam­bert's squads made double­figure winning streaks the norm, Grace's teams were pul­ling off upsets of perennial powerhouse Indiana. But if you had to use one word to describe these teams, it would be "snubbed." Both teams deserved post-season berths but were denied. 
Fran McCann was also a rookie coach when the Class of 1988 arrived on campus. Steadi­ly, McCann's records rose, cul­

From a mishandled kickoff In the opener In 1984 to returning punts for touchdowns, Tim Brown's Helsman Trophy chase Is one of the many fond 
brink, upsetting three top 20 teams in the span of a month, beginning with one of the greatest moments we saw -an upset of top-ranked North Carolina. 
The Observer I Trey Raymond 

memories the Class of 1988 takes with them after minating this year with school-graduation. Dennis Corrigan looks back at four record six berths in the NCAA years of Irish athletics beginning on page 20. Wrestling Championships. An­
other surprising NCAA bid this 
year went to the Irish Cross Country squad under Joe Piane. In our sophomore year, the two-mile relay team of John McNelis, Robert Nobles, Jeff Van Wie and Jim Tyler set a school record time of 7:21.11, the sixth-best time in NCAA history. 
On a different kind of court, the men's and women's tennis teams kept on rolling. The end 
of one era ended when Tom 
Fallon, who coached the squad 
for 32 seasons, retired after last 
year but under new head coach 
Bob Baylis, the team has shown 
no signs of departing from the 
winning legacy of Fallon's 
squads. 
There were two squads which 
didn't need to wake up any 
echoes -the men's and wo­
men's fencing teams. In fact 
they were responsible for two 
National Championships. They 
posted the best records of any 
Irish squads in continuing their 
long winning tradition. Molly 
Sullivan captured two individ­
ual titles. 
Another team that put wins on ice was the Irish hockey team. When we arrived in 1984, the team had just been re­elevated to varsity status. Mter three years of struggling, the squad put together its finest season ever under new head co­ach Ric Schafer. Another new coach is still in the process of of completing hsi squads' finest season. Pat Murphy has his Irish baseball team riding a 13­game winning streak heading into next weeks Midwestern Collegiate Conference playoffs. The winner advances to the NCAA Tournament. 
The seniors of 1988 were pres­ent at a time when Notre Dame's athletic programs emerged from the long shadow cast by the successes of football teams past. They are shaking down their own thunder and creating echoes for future teams to wake. It's been an ex­citing time. 
Oh, and don't feel too bad for that freshman who fumbled on his first chance. Unless you slept through your four years, you know how his story ended ­
in a Heisman Trophy. 

* Convenient Downtown Location 
* 
Security Entrance 

* 
Utilities Included 

* 
Laundry Facilities on Premises 

* 
Range From $285 thru $425 

* 
Efficiencies Still Available 


125 W. Marion St. 233-2098 ask for Mary Jane Chase 
Our outstanding new menu features great Seafood, Prime Rib, Almond Shrimp, Chicken Forest-style, Stir-fry Cooking, Caesar Salad and much, much more ... at very reasonable prices.
ON SALE AT 
Captain Alexander's
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
SECOND FLOOR 
Whar:f 
$17.95 
300 E. Colfax (219) 234-4477 


-~~----------~--~-----~-------~-~----~------------------­
page 16 The Observer Friday, May 13, 1988 
Holtz to host call-in show 
in the fall 
Associated Press 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz 
will host his own weekly call-in 
radio show about Notre Dame 
football beginning in Septem­
ber, it was announced Wednes­
day. 
"The Lou Holtz Show" will 
air on 13 consecutive Tuesday 
nights starting Sept. 6 on the 
Mutual Broadcasting System. 
The hour-long show, featur­
ing opposing coaches, players 
and Holtz' own players as 
guests, will be broadcast live 
via satellite from South Bend. 
Larry Michael, director of 
sports for Mutual, will serve as 
co-host from the network's 
studios in Arlington, Va. 
Callers from around the 
country will be able to talk with 
Holtz by dialing a toll-free num­
ber. 
The 51-year-old Holtz is en­
tering his third year as coach 
of the Fighting Irish. 
ND baseball 
signs eight 
prep stars 
Special to The Observer 
Eight high school seniors have signed national letters of intent to play baseball at Notre Dame next season. 
The eight signees are: Joe Binkiewicz, a pitcher from Wintersville High School in Wintersville, Ohio; Bob Cataldo, an infielder from Dowling High School in Nor­walk, Iowa; Brian Conway, a pitcher from Cathedral High School in Indianapolis; Craig Counsell, a third baseman from Whitefish Bay High School in Whitefish Bay, Wise.; Jason Martinez, a second baseman from Richland High School in Richland, Wash.; Cory Mee, an infielder from Central High School in Hilton, N.Y. ; Korey Wrobleski, a catcher from LaPorte High School in LaPorte, Ind.; and Joe Zebrowski, a pitcher from Colonia High School in Colonia, N.J. 
"We have some outstanding 
student-athletes coming in next 
year and a few of them should 
get a chance to play very quick­
ly," said first-year Irish coach 
Pat Murphy. "We believe that 
this group of freshmen will give 
us a solid foundation to build 
on over the next four years. 
"At the same time, while I am pleased with our recruiting efforts, we have to realize that we still have a long way to go in developing a more competi­tive baseball program. We still have to work hard every day to develop a better team, but this recruiting class is getting us closer to where we want to be." 


The Observer I File Photo 
Irish football coach Lou Holtz will host a radio call-In show on Notre Dame football, beginning next fall. Details at left. 
WAC wants Bobby Knight 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Western Ath­letic Conference coaches and executives alike say they would welcome Bob Knight as the new University of New Mexico bas­ketball coach because it would bring increased exposure and credibility to the league. 
"I'd give my right arm to see him come into our league," said Wyoming coach Benny Dees on Wednesday. "I've never coached against him before but I'd love to give it a shot. Having Bobby Knight come in would just be a great boost." 
"He's one of the greatest coaches this game's ever seen and I think maybe a change would be good for him. He's done everything he can do at Indiana," said Utah's Lynn Ar­chibald. 
"He's been a great influence in my life," said Colorado State's Boyd Grant. "I have great respect for him as one of the best teachers in the game." 
Grant said the defensive phi­losophy he used to take his Rams to the National Invita­tion Tournament this spring was greatly influenced by Knight's book, "Let's Play Defense." 
"He's an exceptional coach 
... there's no question he'd bring publicity to the WAC 8 and certainly to New Mexico," said Brigham Young's Ladell Andersen. 
Air Force's Reggie Minton said Knight would "bring a lot of notoriety to the league be­cause he's a marquee name and a great coach." 

Despite Knight's history of exasperating administrators, WAC commissioner Joe Kear­ney said Knight would be a pos­itive presence in the league. 
t t t t 
t WHAT'S A DEGREE GOOD FOR? t 
t 
t 
t 

..·
t 
t 
t 
t 

t ) PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT
t ( 
t 

t ( ) $400 CASH BONUS FROM FORD t 
t ()/) ALL OF THE ABOVE AT 
t t t t Your Ford Force Dealer t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t 
t t t t t t t 


t 
At Your Ford Force Dealer your
t degree is worth a lot. If you've graduated, or will graduate, with a
t 
Bachelor's or advanced degree
t between October 1, 1987 and Janu­ary 31, 1989, you may qualify for
t $400 from Ford and pre-approved credit from Ford Motor Credit Com­pany. To qualify for pre-approved
t credit, you need: (1) verifiable 
a employment beginning within 120 
' days after your vehicle purchase;f (2) a salary sufficient to cover normal living expenses plus a car
t payment; and (3) if you have a 
t 
• South Bend Motors Poulson Ford Jordan Ford
t 
Akron Etna Green Mishawaka 
t Bremen Ford Eby Ford Sales Oliver Ford Sales 

--.>~'! COLLEct" 
~c fl'" re-
C? 
~  ~.._~-=.-.K•  "9. ....  
~  
,.,..,  

Rochester Ford Rochester 
~  Bremen  Goshen  Plymouth  Silver Lake  Warsaw  t  
t !  Fieldhouse Ford DeMotte Pete Fall Ford  Tri-A Ford Knox Bobilya Ford  May-Harris Motor Sales Remington Brooks Motor Sales  Basney Ford of South Bend ~:k:r~~aSales  Jim Dobson Ford Winamac  I  tIIftI]jJI] !  
'  Elkhart  LaGrange  Rensselaer  '  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

t 
credit record, it must indicate pay-~~ ment made as agreed. 
The $400 from Ford is yours t whether you finance or not. Keep it or apply it to the purchase or lease f of an eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle. ' 
For all the details, contact us or t call Program Headquarters, toll free, at 1-800-321-1536. But hurry. This t limited time offer is only available t between March 1 and December 31, 1988. Take advantage of the t Ford/Mercury College Graduate t Purchase Program now. 
t 
Walkerton Ford t Walkerton t 
f
Kerlin Motor Company Rice Ford 
Friday, May 13, 1988 
NO's Fallon selected 
Special to The Observer 
Former longtime Notre Dame men's tennis coach Tom Fallon is one of seven new members to be inducted into the Collegiate Tennis Hall of Fame on May 24, announced the International Tennis Coaches Association recently. 
The group will be enshrined at the annual Hall of Fame ban­quet in Athens, Ga. 
Fallon amassed a 517-200 record in his 31-year career as head coach of the Fighting Irish. In only his third year at the helm Notre Dame shared the National Championship with Tulane on the strength of its 14-0 season. 
Fallon guided the Irish to an­other unblemished record in 1966, capturing the first of three consecutive Eastern Collegiate Championships as the Notre Dame program continued to gain respect on the national level. In 1971, following its first 20-win campaign (26-5), Notre Dame was selected as host for the NCAA Championships. 
Twenty-victory seasons be­came the rule rather than the exception under l<~allon. In 1980 Notre Dame posted its best regular-season finish since 1966, going 20-3 and earning its fifth Eastern Collegiate crown. A 17-12 mark in 1985 ended a string of six consecutive 20-win seasons, but Fallon closed out his career by going 22-9 in 1986 and 23-10 in 1987, his final season at the helm. All told, he suffered through two losing seasons in 31 years as coach. 
His retirement following the 1987 season ended an associa­tion with Notre Dame which goes back to 1938, when he en­rolled as a freshman. Upon graduation, the native of Long Island, N.Y., native spent four years as a Navy officer during World War II. After gaining his master's and doctoral degrees in physical education at Colum­bia, Fallon returned to his alma mater. 
In 1969 he was named chair­man of the physical education department and subsequently gave up his duties as wrestling coach. He currently holds the rank of associate professor and is the director of activities in the Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse. 
THE 

RIVERSIDE 
EXECUTIVE 
NOW ACCEPTING 
RESERVATIONS 

ONE OF SOUTH BEND'S FINEST EXECUTIVE SUITES 
Weekly or Monthly Rentals Available 

1671A Riverside Drive • South Bend, lndiano Phone 2I<l-21 l-2212 
liGHTUPTHI 
NIGHT~ 
6..packs of 12 oz. bottles MICHE~ 8 


page 17 
.., 

,:..,. 
~,~ h1!iW..~f 
~' <'Zf?:S 
~~''\:::,', ····­


The Observer I Suzanne Poch 

CeCa Cahill, the Volvo Rookie of the Year In the first female tennis player to be Invited to the NCAA Midwest, heads to Los Angeles to compete In the Championships at the Division I level. NCAA Championships. Cahill Is Notre Dame's 
Cahill gets bid to NCAA tourney 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
On May 6, Notre Dame wo­men's tennis player CeCe Cahill finished her final exams as a freshman at Notre Dame, then discovered that had been chosen to take a test of a dif­ferent sort. 
On that day, Cahill received an invitation to the fitting con­clusion to her outstanding freshman season--the NCAA Championships. The 64-player tournament, which will feature the top four players from each region of the country, gets un­derway Monday in Los An­geles. 


THANKS to the many seniors who have been involved in programs related to the Center for Social Concerns. We look forward to your ongoing collaboration as alumni. Congratulations! 
Staff of Center for Social Concerns 
En route to becoming the first Irish player to reach the NCAA Tournament at the Divi­sion I level, Cahill was named Midwest Rookie of the Year by Volvo and is in the running with seven other freshmen for na­tional Rookie of the Year honors. She is currently ranked 52nd among Division I players in the latest national Volvo1TCA poll. 
The Hinsdale, Ill., native is ranked third in the. Volvo1TCA Midwest rankings behind two Indiana players. Her 36 wins on the season set a school record, eclipsing Susie Panther's record of 34 set during the 1983­84 season. 
And she's just a freshman. 
"I'm very excited for CeCe," 
said Notre Dame women's ten­
nis coach Michele Gelfman. "I 
think she is very deserving of 
the bid and she's proven it this 
year. 
"It's been a challenge for her 
to juggle the pressures of being 
a freshman, the academic 
workload and the responsibil­
ity of being the No. 1 player on 
the team, but she's handled it 
very well." 
Cahill will be seeking to im­
prove on her showing in an­
other top-flight tournament in 
the fall, the Rolex Regional 
qualifier, where she had an 
early exit after dropping her 
first-round match. 
"I think CeCe has learned a 
lot this year," continued 
Gellman. "The experience of 
going to the Rolex Qualifier will 
benefit her at the NCAAs. She's 
more aware of the level of com­
petition and the effort it takes 
to succeed." 
Notre Dame 
signs six for hockey 
Special to The Observer 
Six high school seniors have 
signed national letters of intent 
to attend Notre Dame and play 
hockey, marking the first 
hockey scholarships offered by 
the Irish in five years. 
The signees are: Lou Zadra, a left wing from Catholic Memorial High School in Stoughton, Mass.; Mark McClew, a right wing from Up­per Canada College in Toronto, Ontario; Pat Arent, a center from Lourdes High School in Rochester, Minn.; David Bankoske, a center from Nic­hols High School in Buffalo, N.Y.; Mike Curry, a center from John Marshall High School in Rochester, Minn.; and Kevin Patrick, a defen­seman from Deerfield (Mass.) Academy and a resident of Schenectady, N.Y. 
"We have some very good players coming in next year and I think they can contribute right away," said first-year Irish coach Ric Schafer, who led Notre Dame to a best-ever 27-4-1 record last season. "I'm very pleased that we now have scholarships to offer. We didn't find out until mid-December that we would be in that situa­tion, so a lot of other schools really had a head start on us last year in that respect." 
page 18 

Watters 
continued from page 20 
looks to be a permanent one, although Holtz said he could line the sophomore up at tail­back on any given play. Wat­ters has the hands and all the natural talent to be very pro­ductive at the flanker position. 
Converted strong safety Pat Eilers and senior Aaron Robb are backing up Watters. Robb caught a 25-yard pass in the Blue-Gold game. 
The split end job is up for grabs. Ray Dumas missed the spring because of a knee in­jury, and sophomores Bobby Carpenter and Pierre Martin each saw work at split end. Pat Terrell was moved to the de­fensive secondary early in the spring, so it looks to be a three­way battle for the No.1 position there. 
Carpenter spent the most time with the No. 1 unit, while Martin made the best catch of the spring in a mid-session scrimmage as he held onto a ball while a D'Juan Francisco hit sent him somersaulting. 
Sophomore Frank Jacobs has taken over for Heck. The 6-5, 234-pound Jacobs has the size and skill to enhance Notre Dame's offensive attack, and will be backed up by 6-5 senior Mike Brennan, who missed the Blue-Gold game because of an injury suffered earlier that week. Jacobs caught one pass in the contest. 
Offensive Line -This has been the trouble spot all spring for Holtz' squad, which lost four fifth-year seniors from last season. The defense took ad­vantage of the inexperience up front on offense and dominated most of the spring scrim­mages. 
"The possibility exists that all five of the starters on the offensive line will be at posi­tions that are new to them," said Holtz, who spent much of the spring looking for the right combination up front. 
Heck (6-6, 246 pounds) looks to start at one tackle, while Dean Brown (6-2, 283), Marty Lippincott (6-5, 293) and Peter Rausch (6-6, 244) are strong candidates for the other tackle spot. 

Three  players  have  spent  
time  at  center  this  spring.  
Former  guard  and  long­ 

snapper junior Tim Grunhard (6-3, 283) could play either cen­ter or guard, while sophomores Mike Heldt (6-4, 265) and Tim Ryan (6-4, 240) also have snapped the ball. 
The guard candidates in­clude returning starter junior Jeff Pearson (6-2, 254) and pos­sibly Grunhard if he stays at guard. Junior Jim Dadiotis (6-2, 237), sophomore Winston Sandri (6-4, 247) and junior Ted Healy (6-4, 263) are also in the hunt for playing time at guard. 
DEFENSE 

Defensive Line-The defensive Ricky Watters turns upfleld as Wes Pritchett this fall. Marty Strasen looks at how the Irish line has had less trouble than pursues. Watters switch to flanker Is just one of football team looks heading Into the 1988 season, its offensive counterpart fin­several moves made by head coach Lou Holtz beginning on page 20. 

ding replacements for its graduating seniors, but there will be positions to be won once fall workouts begin. 
Returning starter and senior Tom Gorman (6-6, 258) will fill one tackle position, and a lot of talent will be vying for the other two slots. Juniors Bryan Flannery (6-3, 249) and Jeff Aim (6-6, 248) have been pleas­ant surprises all spring, while junior John Foley will continue his transition from linebacker to the line. 
A pair of sophomores have looked solid on the line as well. George Williams (6-4, 285) and George Marshall (6-3, 240) are expected to play large roles this fall. Williams probably will line up at noseguard, where he saw action in seven games last year. 
Senior Rich Morrison (6-3, 245), junior Michael Crounse (6-2, 266), junior Ted FitzGerald (6-5 267) and 
3.20 a.m. 6.15 a.m. 5:20a.m. 7:45a.m. 8:15a.m. 7 20 a.m. 9:45a.m. 10:15 a.m. 

r--J---"---1 9:20a.m. 11:45 a.m. 12:15 a.m. 
11:20 a.m.  1:45 p.m.  2:15p.m.  
t--r-1l  1:20 p.m.  3:45p.m.  4:15p.m.  
=--·~-'---~  3 20 p.m.  5:45p.m.  6:15p.m.  
5:20p.m.  7:45p.m.  8:15p.m.  
7:20  •  10 15  


Also at inside linebacker are Chuck Heater, has continued senior Greg Hudson and soph-its improvement over the last omore Donn Grimm. two seasons. Senior Corny 
Fifth-year senior Darrell Southall leads the returning "Flash" Gordon ret~rns to starters at the safety positions. anchor the outside linebacking Southall calls the defensive sig­corps. Gordon will be expected nals and has dished out some to provide a pass rush which solid hits at free safety, while the Irish have been lacking senior George Streeter returns over the past few years. At the to start at strong· safety. other outside position will be Streeter was named the Defen­either fifth-year senior Frank sive Player of the Blue-Gold Starns or sophomore Andre game. Jones, both of whom had im-Senior D'Juan Francisco ap­pressive spring workouts. pears to have won a starting 
Scott Kowalkowski, Kevin spot at cornerback, alongside McShane and Kurt Zackrison either junior Stan Smagala or also will vie for time. sophomore Todd Lyght. 
Other hopefuls in the second­Secondary -The Notre Dame ary include Terrell and Bob secondary, under new coach Satterfield. 
homores Steve Roddy (6-2, 237), Brian Shannon (6-5, 244) and Chris Zorich (6-1, 260) round out the group of candi­dates for tackle positions. 
Linebackers -The Irish are chocked full of talent at linebacker, especially at the in­side linebacker position. 
With the return of junior Mike Stonebreaker from a year of academic ineligibility, Notre Dame has three solid inside 'backers to put on the field in 1988. Stonebreaker joins last year's two top tacklers in junior Ned Bolcar (106 tackles) and 6-5 senior W es Pritchett 
(70). 

with very special goat
7:55a.m. 8 00 a.m. 9:55a.m 10:00 a.m. 

HE"RY LEE SOMMER 
11:55 a.m. 12:00 p m 155 p.m. 200 p.m 3:55p.m 4:00p.m 

5:55pm 6:00p.m. Sclnday. ]one 5 7:30 pm 7:55p.m. 8:00p.m. 
Morr1s Civic Auditorium
10:25 p.m 11:00 p.m. 

12:25 ALL SEATS RESERVED $14.50 (PLUS 50¢ FOR RENNOV A TION) 
TICKETS GO ON SALE MONDAY, MAY 16 
Available at the Civic Auditorium Box Office, Nightwinds (Niles and North Village Mall) and World Records and Tapes (Elkhart) Record Connection, Super Sound (Elkhart) 
Charge by Phone 219-284-9190. Welcomed by WAOR 
CALL UNITED UMO 


Friday, May 13, 1988 
The Observer page 19 
Bloom County M PK£51PffNTtllt. CIW/JI~ /JillN'T CCM1e" lf()('lf€ t.A5T NI6HT. I  COI?Ne/..111IIMJ 8/U./  61/.t.N' C(Jf(NV/ I  Berke Breathed 116'£ 1511 501?TOf C05MIC fllf?MONY 1rJ IT. \  The Far Side  Gary Larson  
Calvin and Hobbes  Bill Watterson CAL'IINJ  ..  
"Hey! You wanna kick me? Go aheadl C'mon, tough guy! Cat got your tongue? Maybe he took your whole bralnt ... C'monl Kick mel"  

Campus 
Friday, May 13: 
6:30p.m.: Lawn concert on the Administration Building mall by the University Concert Band. In event of inclement weather the concert will be cancelled. 8-10 p.m.: Graduate School reception for degree recipients in the Graduate School and their families (by invitation) at the Center for Continuing Education. 9-10 p.m.: Senior Class dance on South Quad. 
Saturday, May 14 
9:30a.m.: ROTC Commissioning in the South Dome of the Joyce ACC. 
11:30 a.m.: Phi Beta Kappa installation in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 1 p.m.: Shenanigans performance in Washington Hall. 2-3:30 p.m.: University Reception in the Center for Continuing Education for graduates, their families and guests. 4:20p.m.: Academic Procession for graduates begins at the Joyce ACC. 5-6:30 p.m.: Baccalaureate Mass in the South Dome of the Joyce ACC. Cap and gown attire required. University President Father Edward Malloy will be the celebrant. 9 p.m.: Glee Club concert in Stepan Center. 
Sunday, May 15: 
12:30 p.m.: Distribution of Bachelor's and Master's Diplomas in the North Dome of the Joyce ACC. Doctor of Philosophy degrees will be individually conferred during the Commencement ceremony. 
1: 15 p.m.: Academic Procession begins in the Joyce ACC. Cap and gown attire required. 2 p.m.: Commencement and conferring of degrees in the Joyce ACC. Tickets for admission to the Commencement exercises are required for parents and guests. 
4:30 p.m.: Graduate division: Business Administration diploma ceremony in Stepan Center. 4:30p.m.: Law School diploma ceremony in Sacred Heart Church. Tickets re­quired. 
LAST YW 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DIIIICIIIG AID DIIVIIG. 
' 

• l~ . .1Jl,'."
•·f . I ,/ )f-i A 
1 ~-\· /·.;~--· Ja ....·/·',
·~ -_:
~-"-~ a'/ "· ') "' .
"·~·~~ ....... -~ 
DCNI'fHMibH,~IJIKwmtlllOMWMOIHM:' 

Comics 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Chesterfield 5 Sarcastic 
rebuke 9 Alumnus for 
short 13 Came to earth 14 Pope's crown 16 City on the 
Truckee 17 Saucy 18 Certain 

showers 20 Give a leg up 22 SRO person 23 Corn or pod 
preceder 24 Donny or 
Marie 26 Verdancy 28 Kitchen 

follower 32 Seek the favor 
of ~~-r_,-­33 Bishoprics 34 Mothers: Fr. 35 Center 36 Mosaic piece © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 05/13/8839 Abstract 
All Rights Reserved 
being 40 Heath genus 3 Spring 42 Provoked harbinger 43 Shoe width 4 Dress 44 Author Ferber 5 ERA or RBI 45 Air 6 Insolent talk 48 TV summer 7 Swiss river 
fare 8 Light 50 Bird: pref. refractors 51 Level of 9 Nobleman 
command 10 TV actor Tim 54 Expresses 11 -Boleyn 
thoughts 12 Medicinal 57 Result of 18A measure 60 Proficient 15 Choir 61 Birthright members 
seller 19 Scampered 62 Painter 21 Afternoon rest 
Edouard 24 Dollar bills 63 Bulrush 25 Group meeting 05/13/88 64 Vend 26 Pepo 38 Primary color 51 Scot. uncles 65 Ivy League 27 Born 41 Cautious 52 Crate 
school 29 Nascent elms 45 Witch's 53 Glass: pref. 66 Cheese type 30 Doctrine transport 54 Bone: pref. 31 Existence 46 Airstrip 55 Ms Raines 
DOWN 32 Yippee! 47 Fly 56 Appear 1 Grape juice 34 Reckless 49 Building 58 Sp. queen 2 Huzzahs 37 Ages addition 59 Kin: abbr. 


j
• • 

Ifthe press didn't tell us, who \\OOld? 
lu tll'll"tllllc.'d IUiurmoUIUil un thl' rulr ul ~ lfl'l' 1"1'1:'' .mJ hu11 II J'lfllll,'l'l' \ltUttljlhl" utllliJI"'II"'Iin\ Jrcr(li"\'"'1''-IK.' l•lllhl'ill"ol .\rmndml'lll { rnlt'rll I Kllll '\.12.1t.l~ 
~ 
Sports 
Friday, May 13, 1988 



• 


'~ The Observer I Bob Jones 
Notre Dame's Brian Plotrowlcz tossed a no-hitter lights and preview the MCC championship, which on Wednesday as the Irish baseball team defeated Notre Dame will host next week, beginning on Ball State 2-0. Marty Strasen has the game high-page 20. 
A look at the returnees Irish, Holtz look to '88 season 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz hopes to follow a spring of changes with a fall season filled with evidence that those changes have paid off. 
The annual Blue-Gold game in late April confirmed that Holtz' latest move might be a good one, as sophomore Ricky Watters played flanker and earned co-Offensive Player of the Game honors along with quarterback Stave Belles. Wat­ters, who gained 373 yards on 69 carries as a tailback in 1987, looks to be Tim Brown's re­placement as a punt and kick­return man as well. 
"He has good hands and has the knack for catching the ball," Holtz said after the game, in which Watters caught a nine-yard touchdown pass. "He must get his hands on the ball12-14 times a game. He's a Tim Brown-type player, but I don't want to compare him to Tim Brown. That wouldn't be fair." 
Former tight end Andy Heck made the move to tackle in a,n effort to strengthen an offen­sive line which could not find any consistency following the loss of four fifth-year seniors from last year's squad. Heck could be the only senior starter on the line when the Irish take the field at home against Mic­higan on Sept. 10. 
"If you look at our two-deep, you'll find 15 or 16 freshmen (now sophomores)," Holtz noted. "That scares you going into a season. " 
Here's how the team looks, position-by-position, going into the fall (excluding incoming freshmen): 
OFFENSE 
Quarterbacks -Junior Tony Rice has secured the No. 1 quarterback spot entering 1988, and has looked impressive moving the ball. Rice still needs to sharpen his passing game, something none of the Irish quarterbacks managed to perfect in the spring. 
Sophomore Kent Graham is No. 2, but the play of Steve Belles in the Blue-Gold game (leading two long touchdown drives) has left room for either Belles or Pete Graham to earn some playing time in the fall. 

Running Backs -Mark Green is back. Mter leading Notre Dame in rushing in 1987 with 861 yards and spending most of the spring at flanker, Green made the move back to tail­back when Watters was moved to flanker in the last week of the spring. The senior gained 70 yards on 13 carries in the Blue-Gold game, and should be carrying the ball quite often in 1988. 
Sophomore Tony Brooks capped an impressive spring session with 69 yards on 17 carries and a touchdown in the Blue-Gold game, and also will see plenty of playing time. 
At fullback, juniors Anthony Johnson and Braxston Banks are proven players. Johnson enters the fall No. 1, while Banks scored a touchdown and gained 50 yards on 12 tries to lead the Gold to a 27-9 victory. 
Receivers -Watters' move 
see WATTERS, page 18 

Piotrowicz no-hits as NO wins again 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
There was no reason for sophomore right-hander Brian Piotrowicz to think he would lose the seven-inning no-hitter he threw at Ball State Wednes­day. 
Mter all, Notre Dame's 2-0 victory over the Cardinals was the squad's 13th in a row (a school record) and its lOth in five days. The Irish are hosting the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference baseball tournament in a week, and their 36-20 record under first-year head coach Pat Murphy already marks the most victories in Notre Dame history. In short, just about everything is going right for the 
Notre  Dame  baseball team  
lately.  
But  while  you're  in  the  

middle of your first-ever no­hitter, your mind tends to play tricks on you. 
"I've had quite a few one­hitters in high school," Piotrowicz "but never a no-hitter. I started thinking about it in about the fifth inning. My mind just started wondering if I could really get it. 
"You don't want to make any mistakes at that point. I started trying to be a little too perfect and ended up walking two guys in the seventh." 
But the sophomore held on for his seventh win in a row, boosting his season record to 7-3. He struck out four and lost three in the contest, which was the second game in a 
doubleheader against Ball State. 
Mike Pasilla, 6-4, won the first game for the Irish by a 13-4 score. 
"It's a great feeling, to say the least," Piotrowicz added. "My sinker was keeping them off the plate, and that made my slider and fastball more effec­tive. I just got some good calls when I needed them, some great defense behind me and 
see NO-HITTER, 14 


Seniors look back at years of sports 
It all started with an early morning bus ride -and a 
fumble. There we were, stuck in the endzone of the Hoosier 
Dome for our first Notre Dame football game. One of our 
own, a freshman, stood before us waiting to field a Purdue 
kickoff that would begin our four years of Irish athletics. 
We rose our arms, twirled them and hummed. The kick­
off came straight at us. Our classmate settled beneath it 
and ... promptly fumbled it. The Boilermakers recovered 
and kicked field goal. The Irish went on to lose. 
From that moment, there would be many more dishear­
tening losses, including a 58-7 thrashing at Miami. We saw 
Dennis Corrigan 
Editor Emeritus 
one coach resign under pressure and another come in, anointed as a messiah before even stalking a sideline. One more year filled with heartbreaking losses ensued, but in our final chance at glory, Lou Holtz put together a squad that at one point was a serious contender for National Championship honors. The Irish went to the Cotton Bowl, the first bowl that we could travel to easily. Notre Dame lost, but we knew that we would leave a football team that was back on the tracks. 
That idea of being back on track applies to all the Irish programs. The class of 1988 witnessed a four span that gave meaning to the familiar adage "wake up the echoes." A basketball team that had been absent from NCAA play for the three years before we got here made it to the big 
see SENIORS, page 15 



l • 
t 
I 
Don't Say Goodbye to ND Forever 
P---~------------,
Keep in touch with underclassman friends, favorite faculty members, the To subscribe nowNotre Dame football and basketball teams, and the changing campus. 
please send $40 for the While you are away, let The Observer bring Notre Dame and Saint Mary's entire school year or $25home to you. The Observer staff of more than 250 students will continue to for one semester to: 

cover all of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's news every day. Subscribe now and you'll be able to keep tabs on Notre Dame's drive to 
The Observer 

the national championship and on Father Malloy as he heads into his 
P.O. Box Q 
second year as president of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame, IN 
46556 

I 
··"t---------------------------1 
I 
I ~----------------­


