
------------------------~----­
Let it snow 
Light snow today, becoming 
windy and cold with tempera­
tures dropping tonight. Low 
zero to five above. Remaining 
J ACCENT: Romantics Review 
iVIEWPOINT: Helping the homeless 





VOL. XXI, NO. 75 

the independent newspaper serving· Notre Dame and Saint Mary's
.r,, 


Stock crash not affecting ND on-campus interviews 
By EHIC M. BERGAMO availability of job openings," stock market problems." future when setting up campus they actually do the hiring, it's Senior Staff Heporter Arnold said. "We have not seen A cancellation by E.F. Hut­recruiting sessions, she said. going to look a little different." the number of cancellations ton "came as no surprise," Ar­''They are frequently guess­she said. 
Companies recruiting at that one might expect based on nold said. ing a year in advance what The total number of inter­Notre Dame have not suffered how dramatic the stock market Arnold cited the company's their employment needs are views this year is up 15 percent any major effects from last Oc­changed," she said. recent purchase by Shearson going to be, so many of the from last year, Arnold said. tober's stock market crash, ac­There have been some can­Lehman Brothers and the people who scheduled spring Arnold said she was uncer­l~ording to Kitty Arnold, direc­cellations, Arnold said, but the layoff of 5,000 employees as recruiting and fall recruiting tain if next year's recruiting tor of Career and Placement companies are not concen­reasons for the cancellation. (estimated their needs) in the would be affected by the stock Services. trated in any one business sec­Career and Placement Ser­spring of 1987," Arnold said. market crash. 
<>n campus interviews have tor. vices "always has some can­Normal attrition rates may not decreased since the crash, "<The cancellations) go all cellations every year, regard­tell the company how many The companies will have had Arnold said. over the map," Arnold said, less of what's going on in the people they will need to fill six months of "history" after 
"We've only seen minor adding "the cancellations that stock market," she said. those positions, said Arnold. the crash to determine what changes in the availability of we've seen probably aren't in Companies estimate what ''Another point in the year, a ·their jobs needs will be, she interviews and potentially the any large number the result of positions they need to fill in the little closer to the time when said. 

Kemp doubtful 
4 

1of Bush, Dole 
<t.

"country clubs . . . and For­tune 500 companies" to the . Rep. Jack Kemp portrayed poor, minorities and elderly. 
Associated Press 
( 
himself Sunday as a populist Gephardt was a prime target and GOP presidential front­at the Democratic debate, re­runners George Bush and Bob flective of his position in the 
i . Dole as the "old guard of the front tier of candidates in a poll Republican Party" while a new published in Sunday's Des poll threw the Democratic race Moines Register. in Iowa up for grabs. The Missouri congressman 
Democrat Richard Gephardt defended his trade proposal to defended his trade bill against impose automatic sanctions criticism that it was "non­against nations that have trade sense" as the seven Democrats imbalances with the United met in New Hampshire in States as a result of unfair debate -their second in a practices. three-day string. "The whole purpose of my 
Kemp complained that Bush trade policy is to move us into and Dole would "definitely be a changed situation where we a step back from what Ronald can really break foreign Reagan started in 1980. markets open," Gephardt said. 
"Bush and Dole represent Tennessee Sen. Albert Gore the old guard of the Republican Jr. said of the automatic sanc­Party," he said on CBS' "Face tions, "That's nonsense." And the Nation," ignoring his own former Sen. Gary Hart said it 18 years in Congress. was "the worst old idea I've 
"I would like to see the Re­heard of in this campaign."Right to Life March publican Party have a populist The Iowa poll showed Gep­as its candidate, not an elitist," hardt, Illinois Sen. Paul Simon
A group of 45 Notre Dame I Saint Mary's Pro-Lifers 
Kemp said, adding that the
rally in Washington, D.C. to protest the historic Su­see RUNNING, page 4
GOP should look beyond the
preme Court ruling which legalized abortion. The 
N. Y. Times

Abandoned girl visited by relative 
ranks SMC 

Associated Press and potato chips -and drank the freezing bedroom attic of "She should be up on artifi­her pop," Mrs. Carlisle said. her family's Gary apartment cial trainer legs to learn how 

among top

CHICAGO -A 9-year-old girl The girl underwent a 2-hour on Jan. 17. Authorities believe to balance herself in a couplewhose frostbitten legs were operation at Wyler Children's she was left there several days of weeks," the surgeon said. amputated after she was found Hospital at the University of earlier by her mother, who has 


229 schools 
abandoned and locked in a Chicago on Saturday to close been charged with felony ne­Officials are not sure with freezing, filthy apartment got the wounds left open when her glect. whom Miss Carlisle will live 
By PATTI WEED some company Sunday from legs were removed below the "When told that many people when her stay at La Rabida is 
News Staff relatives as she recovered knees last week. have been asking about her, completed. 
Saint Mary's ranks among

from a second operation. Mrs. Carlisle said the child's she said, 'Tell them I'm fine,"' The Child Protective Ser­"She's fine -as far as can be father and other relatives and said Dr. Victoria Dvonch, the vices Division of the Lake 
the 229 "best buys in college education," according to a

expected. Her color has come friends had also visited the orthopedic surgeon who per­County Department of Public 1988 publication by The New back. She's really pretty," said child after the surgery and formed Thursday's amputation Welfare took custody of her York Times. 
Katie Carlisle, the 67-year-old again Sunday. and led the operating team after she was discovered, and "The Best Buys in College
great-grandmother of Darlwin ''The first time she came out again on Saturday. final custody will be awarded Carlisle, the spunky child of surgery she was crying and by a juvenile court. 
Education," by Edward recovering from post-she asked me who was going to Miss Carlisle is expected to The girl's mother, Darlwin 
Fiske, education editor of amputation surgery. "I take care of her and I said 'I be transferred to La Rabida Joann Britt, 24, is in jail in lieu 
The New York Times, combed her hair," said Mrs. will,"' said Mrs. Carlisle. Children's Hospital in Chicago of $50,000 bond and faces three 
chooses academic institu­Carlisle, who raised the child's Miss Carlisle was listed in at the end of the week but, count~ of felony neglect and a 
tions which represent the father, "and put two blue bar­fair but stable condition on Sun­"right now we're concerned possible prison term of 60 
best combination of cost and rettes in her hair to go with her day, said hospital spokes­with letting the wounds heal," years. She entered an innocent gown." woman Katrina Batts. said hospital spokeswoman plea Friday in Lake Superior 
see BEST, page 4 

"She ate well -baked chicken The girl was found locked in Gretchen Flock. Court. 
The Observer I Rafael Carreira 
group participated in the annual March for Life from the White House to the Supreme Court. 
Monday, January 25, 1988

page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
The John Cardinal O'Hara Award will be given to Edward Fischer, professor emeritus of American Studies, given annually by the Alumni Association to an alumnus who has been a member of the University's fac­ulty, administration, or staff and has performed outstand­ing service. Fischer graduated in 1937 and joined the fac­ulty here ten years later. -The Observer 
Former Ohio Governor John Gilligan, a 1943 graduate, will be awarded the Alumni Association's John 
J. Cavanaugh Award, presented annually to an alumnus who has performed outstanding service in the field of local, state or national government and politics. Gilligan joined the faculty here in 1979 after serving as governor and a member of the House of Representatives. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Notre Dame Bagpipe Band will hold an organi­
zational meeting on Wednesday, Jan. 27 at 7 p.m. in the 
Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. Any students or faculty 
from Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in playing 
the pipes or drums please attend or contact Paul Harren 
at 283-3475. -The Observer 
"Obtaining a Summer Internship"is the title of a presentation to be made by Paul Reynolds, associate director of the Career and Placement Services office, tonight at 6:30p.m. in Room 124 of the Hayes Healy Center. Reynolds will discuss the techniques and resources stu­dents should use when attempting to obtain a summer job. This talk will be repeated tomorrow evening in the same location and at the same time. All juniors, sophomores, and first-year MBA students are encouraged to attend. ­
T~ Observer 
Eating Awareness Training (what is an eating problem?) will hold its first session tonight from 6: 30 to 7:30p.m. in Room 300 at the University Counseling Center Health Center. This three part series is geared to individ­uals who feel they may have an eating problem or are worried about someone who may. -The Observer 
SAVE will hold an organizational meeting at 7 p.m. in Room 117 Haggar Hall (ND). SAVE volunteers visit shut-in elderly in the area and anyone interested in volunteering should come to tonight's meeting. -The Observer 
SMC Juniors going to Senior Formal please contact Karen Donahoo at 283-5115 or Rose Pietrzak at 284-5049 for information on an alternate weekend for Junior Moms. -The Observer 
Summer study-tour programs in London and Rome are being offered by Saint Mary's for the summer of 1988. The London program runs from May 18 to June 17, and the Rome program runs from June 12 to July 11. For information, contact Professor Anthony Black at 284­4660 or 272-3726. -The Observer 
Philosophy Club Pizza Dinner will be Thursday, Jan. 26 from 4:30 to 6:30p.m. in the basement of Grace Hall. Interested persons are asked to attend. -The Obser­ver 
Saint Mary's juniors interested in any one of the commissioner positions should return the application to the Haggar College Center front desk. For information, call Rose at 284-5049 or Rozel at 284-5083. -The Observer 
Ihe-Obs.e~'0t~­
= ----&.--=-Y=-'--· ---·-­
Design Editor ........ Jane Anne Riedford Business Editor ........ ;,teve Claeys Design Assistant .............. Alison Cocks 
Business Layout ............... Heidi Traxler Typesetters... .. ............ Micheal Buc 
Typists... .. .. ..... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Jenn Conlon ............... Daniel Cahill 
......................................... Wendy Burek News Editor... Regis Coccia 
ND Day Editors .............. Beth Cornwell Copy Editor .. .. .............. Greg Lucas .............................................. Sue Moser Sports Copy Editor .. ..... Rick Rietbrock 
Photographer ... ..................... Jim Brake 

Accent Copy Editor ... _K_a_th.:.._y_Sc_ar_be_c_k---------
Tille Obeeroer (USPS S99 24000) is publish'!d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Obwner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tille Obeeroer is a member of Tille Asaodaled Peas. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Morals are something which can't be taught 
"You can't legislate morality." 
Tell that to the Indiana state legislature. House Bill1067, passed in committee by a 10-1 vote, states that sex education in Indiana public school must, among other things, "include that abstinence from sexual activity is the only cer­tain way to avoid out-of-wedlock pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and other asso­ciated health problems," and that they "must teach abstinence from sexual activity outside of marriage as the expected standard for all school age children." 
It is technically true that abstinence is the only 100 percent effective method of avoiding sexually transmitted diseases (STD's) and pregnancy. But other methods, such as latex condoms and spermicides, have an effective­ness rate of "over 99.9 percent," according to a national toll-free AIDS hotline. 
Teaching that abstinence is the only way to be safe is technically correct. But it is mislead­ing. It really isn't teaching at all -it's dictating morals. 
The proposed law could have been worse. The previous version would have the state teach schoolchildren that the only way to avoid sexual diseases was to avoid sexual activity except in a "faithful monogamous relationship in the con­text of marriage," which is flat out wrong. The sponsor of this original version said he might not support the new version because it weakened its moral statement. As if the new version isn't a moral statement. 
Anyone who knows teenagers at all will realize that one easy way to get them to do something is to tell them not to do it, preferably in as condescending a: manner as possible. Inner city public schools have tried variations on this theme in sex education, only to see teenage pregnancy rates rise alarmingly. Simply telling high school students not to have sex is at best naive and at worst wrong. 
Aside from whether preaching abstinence will reduce teenage pregnancies or STD oc­curence, the question arises: "Should the state legislate morality?" Does a state or nation have the right to force the views of the majority on the rights of the minority who in most cases would simply like to be left alone? 
Many people seem to believe that sex outside of marriage is permissible. 
Mark 0
Mclaughlin 
Projects Manager 



Even in Indiana. 
Even in Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Indiana isn't the only state to try to legislate its residents into the Catholic Church, though. New Jersey went through a similar debate a few years back, and I'm sure other states are engaged in similar debates with the advent of AIDS. 
But even if only a small minority of citizens believein premarital sex, it isn't right to force­feed the opposite belief to their children. If premarital sex or homosexuality or other forms of 'deviant' sexual behavior are wrong or harm­ful, they are not hurting anyone other than the people who practice them. Does the state have the right to legislate something, be it sex or seat belts, for "your own good?" 
Someday we may be forced by law to vote for the Conservative Party "for our own good." But at least we won't have to worry about AIDS. 


DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KIU A FRIENDSHIR 

Effective immediately New Reservations policy for Theodore's: 
1) A reservation application must be received seven days in advance of event. Application can be picked up during office hours 4-5 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday in Theodore's 
[

office which can be accessed off of the south stair well on the second floor of Lafortune or in the Student Activities Office. 
[ 

2) A deposit of $50 CASH must be received three working days prior to the event. A cancellation must be received 24 hours before event or deposit will be lost. 
3) Reservations can only be made for Monday-Tuesday 2 p.m.-12. Other days and between times are left to the discretion of the management. 
If there are any questions, contact Noel Murtha ~~~ese~,vatio,!1S ~~nag~r at)28.3-.34.35 


Monday, January 25, 1988 

Former chief of police elected Haitian leader 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti ­The government on Sunday declared political scientist Leslie Manigat the winner of Haiti's presidential election, state-run radio said. 
A former police chief under dictator l<~rancois Duvalier was elected mayor of Port-au­Prince, the radio said. quoting results released by the government-appointed Elec­toral Council. 
Opposition leaders said the election run by the ruling junta was a sham, and the U.S. gov­ernment said it could not be considered "free and fair." 
The radio said Manigat gar­nered 50.3 percent, or 534,080 votes, out of a total 1,061,916 votes cast in the Jan. 17 elec­tion, according the Electoral Council results. 
"The Electoral Council has officially declared Leslie Manigat the new president of the Republic of Haiti," the state radio said. 
Manigat's campaign manager, Robert Benodin, con-

TO ALL HIS FANS: ARTHUR 
is not in the Dining Hall anymore. He's cooking by himself now. For having DINNER with him (AUSTRIAN KITCHEN) call ARTHUR or his MANAGER. 283-2747 
<GIRLS ONLY) 
J,:.;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.:.J 
South Padre 
for 

~. Spring Break__ 
,~~.li. March 11-20 ~~-cost $346 

includes .,~ 
hotel accommodations at the luxurious 
Hilton Resort transportation by Motorcoach (trip must include 
transportation) 
free pool deck parties, etc. 
sign-ups held 

Tuesday, January 26 and Wednesday, January 
6:00 pm -9:00 pm at the Information Desk first floor LaFortune 
$1 00 deposit required at that time no lines before 5:00 pm 
Sponsored by SUB 
Call Jim 239-7757 or Judy 283-2999 

firmed the victory of the author and political scientist, who is known as a nationalist and po­litical pragmatist. 
Manigat, 57, has pledged to reconcile the nation's powerful military with its restless oppo­sition, but opposition leaders have called him an opportunist and government puppet. 
The Electoral Council also declared Franck Romain win­ner in the election for mayor of Port-au-Prince with nearly 80 percent of the vote. The former army colonel served as chief of police under dictator "Papa Doc" Duvalier and is a former mayor of the capital. 
Critics say he forced school­children to watch the execu­tions of political dissidents. 
The junta led by Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy has promised to turn over power to an elected president on Feb. 7. The three­man junta has ruled this im­poverished Caribbean nation since dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier fled to exile in France in February 1986. 
The Observer page 3 
,,, The Observer 1 Jim Brake
This is snow fun 
Snow brings out the best in winter and sport. On and Stanford Halls engage in some fun and frolic in North Quad, snow brings out the best in winter sports, the snow. namely, snow football. Here teams from Breen-Philips 


Reagan to address Union 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan's favorite recipe for a State of the Union address: 
I. Stir an oratorical stew of optimism, patriotism and nos­talgia laced with hyperbole. 
2. 
Sprinkle with legislative proposals, mostly leftovers. 

3. 
Add a dash of spicy rebukes for big-spending Democrats, a dollop of praise for the Nicaraguan Contras and a pinch of scorn for Soviet 


militarists. 

4. 
Top off with tributes to an American hero or two sitting in the balcony with Nancy Reagan. 

5. 
Heat to bubbling. Serve before a joint session of Congress and a nationwide television audience. 


If his six previous speeches are any guide, look for Reagan to stick to his standard formula for a boffo performance when he delivers his seventh State of the Union address Monday night. Once again, in the tradi­tion of presidents past, it's likely to be long on rhetoric and short on substance. 
But watch to see if Reagan sweetens the pot with a surprise. 
The old Hollywood actor hinted as much last week when he told a rally of senior admin­istration officials, "As they say in show biz, let's bring them to their feet with our closing act." 
There's an unmistakable Hollywood aroma, in fact, to much of Reagan's past State of the Union oratory. 
His early succession of speeches, focusing on restoring the country to economic health, contained .robust imagery evocative of the late celluloid cowpoke John Wayne. In 1983, he declared that IIAmerica is on the mend." In 1984, "America is back, standing tall." In 1986, "America is on the move." 
While other presidents have quoted the likes of Tom Paine, Ben Franklin or Alexis de Toc­queville, Reagan summed up his vision of America in 1986 with a line from Steven Spiel­berg's popular movie, "Back to the Future." In the same speech, he applauded families and communities as "the co­stars of this great American comeback.'' 
Reagan has seen few of his major State of the Union initia­tives gain the approval of a con­tentious Congress . 




~-­

-~----------------­
Monday, January 25, 1988 

page 4 The Observer 

Security Beat . 
Friday, January 22 
9:30 p.m.-A Dowajiac, Michigan, resident reponed the theft of her wallet from the Joyce ACC during the Notre Dame vs. Pennsylvania basketball game. The value of her loss is un­known. 
I: IOa.m.-A Pasquerilla East resi­dent's vehicle was vandalized while it was parked in D2 sometime between 5:30p.m and I a.m. Damage is esti­mated at $100. 
Saturday, January 23 
5: I Op.m.-A South Bend resident reported the theft of his jacket and gloves from the Tip Off Club. His loss is estimated at $70. 
7:55p.m.-A Dillon Hall resident reponed the theft of three pairs of bas­ketball sneakers and cash from his un­locked room. His loss is estimated at $175. 
II :04p.m.-A University employee reponed that an intoxicated person had fallen and injured himself in LaFortune Student Center. The victim, a 17-year­old South Bend youth, was taken by ambulance to Memorial Hospital for treatment. 
3:45a.m.-A Notre Dame employee reported that his car was broken into while it was parked in the South Din­ing Hall lot sometime between I :30 and 2:30 a.m. His loss is estimated at $40. 


Runn..ing
continued from page 1 
and Massachusetts Gov. Mi­chael Dukakis bunched tightly together Gephardt at 19 per­cent, Dukakis at 18 percent and Simon at 17 percent. Hot on their heels were Jesse Jackson with 11 percent and former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt at 10 percent. 
Hart's support among Iowa Democrats dropped off dramatically; the poll put him at 13 percent, half his support of a few weeks ago. 
Hart again faced hostile questioning, this time from a college student, on his relation­ship with a Miami model and alleged campaign financing ir­regularities. 
"I have tried ... to lead as good a life as I could -not a perfect life, without error but as good a life as I could," he said. 

Best 
continued from page 1 
academic quality from the na­
tions 2,000 schools of higher 
education. 
The recently published volume chose the schools based on information compiled from 
.independent surveys, students and administrators. The publication considered only those institutions where "the total fixed costs did not exceed the average disposable family income for the state in which the school is located." 
Other special criteria were also taken into account: small classes; faculty who show in­terest in students; counseling services; quality of library facilities, and special aca­demic opportunities, such as foreign study programs. 
The book's article on Saint Mary's mentioned the campus' proximity to Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame al­lows Saint Mary's students to take classes and earn second degrees at "more expensive Notre Dame for no extra charge," according to the arti­cle. The article also stated that Saint Mary's students are no longer "in the shadow of Notre qame, but more of its equal." 
2:27a.m.-A Cavanaugh Hall resi­
dent reported he was attacked by four 
suspects while walking back to campus 
from a local bar. The assault occurred 
on North St. Frances Street. After un­
successfully see~ing assistance at three 
area residences, he returned to campus 
and notified Notre Dame Security. He 
was taken to St. Joseph Medical Center 
for treatment of minor injuries. 
7:04p.m.-A Hanner Hall resident 
reported the theft of several pieces of 
jewelry from his room. His loss is es­
timated at $300. 
Sunday, January 24 
7:08 p.m.-A Sorin Hall resident reported the theft of his walkman and laundry bag from his unlocked room at approximately I :30 a.m. His loss is estimated at $115. 
3:44p.m. -A Flanner Hall resident reported that his car was broken into sometime between 3:30a.m. and 3:14 
p.m. while it was parked in the D2 lot. A rock was thrown through the win­dow, and damage is estimated at $300. 
2:25 p.m. -A resident of Fisher Hall reported his car window was bro­ken while it was parked in the Dl lot sometime between 8 p.m. Saturday and 
1:15 p.m. Sunday. Damage is esti­mated at $250. 
2:57 a.m. -A Sorin resident scared off two men who had unlawfully en­tered his unlocked room while he was sleeping. Nothing was taken and the student was able to provide a de­scription of both suspects. 
******* **** 
*
* 
* 
~ 
* 
* 
~ FREE DELIVERY!!! 
* 

*************** S U P E R WEEK··············**­featuring a 
"GUESS THE SCORE CONTEST" 
Correctly guess the score of this week's SUPER BOWL between the Denver Broncos and the Washington Redskins and win yourself a 


***********************FREE 6' SUB!!!*********************** 
Plus all during SUPER WEEK you will receive these GREAT SPECIALS brought to you by MATEO'S SUB SHOP!!! 
eMILE HIGH MONDAY 
With the purchase of any sub for delivery you will receive a 12 oz. Orange Crush at no extra charge!!! 

e WASHINGTON'S "HOG" WEDNESDAY 
Receive 50c off any Ham sub if you're a Redskin fan but if you're a Bronco fan just say "GO CRUSH" and receive 25c off any sub you order 

e FIELD GOAL FRIDAY 
Receive a 7" sub and a 16 oz. 
OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK 

South Bend, In. 46635 
or off at the 
NAME_________________ 
SCQRE OF GAME 
WASHINGTON REDSKINS---­DENVER BRONCOS 
*In case of a tie a drawing will be held to determine the winner 



Police officer shot with own gun despite pleas for life 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -A man seized a policeman's gun and fatally shot the officer in the face as he pleaded for his life as some spectators yelled "Shoot him," authorities said. 
Officer John Chase, 25, who last month switched from an evening to a day shift to spend more time with his bride of three months, was attacked Saturday as he was writing a traffic ticket. 
The suspect, Carl Dudley Williams, 34, was shot by off­duty officers who responded to the call. The man died a few hours later at Parkland Memorial Hospital, police said. 
A crowd of about 30 people gathered around the officer and his assailant, a homeless man with a history of mental illness, according to police and witnesses. 
"The officer was saying, 'Don't shoot me. I'll help you whatever way I can.' But the guy shot him in the head,"' wit­ness Melitha Johnson said. 
"One girl said that people in the crowd were saying, 'Shoot him, shoot him again,"' said police Lt. Jerald Calane. 
Witnesses said the attacker then strolled down the street, dangling the gun from his hand. 
Investigators said they knew of no motive for the shooting, but Chief Billy Prince and some of his officers blamed recent criticism of the department by some City Council members for creating a dangerous environ­ment for police. 
"This is very tough on the of­ficer on the street,'' Prince said at a news conference. "Constant bashing" of the de­partment created a volatile sit­uation, he said. 
Chase was preparing to give a traffic ticket to the driver of a vehicle he had pulled over when Williams began arguing 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111~ 
********** * 
*=
*­
*-*= 
* 
*= 
* 
271-0SUB ~ 
with him, police spokeswoman Vicki Hawkins said. 
Williams didn't know the 
driver of the car but began . fighting with the officer and grabbed his .44-caliber gun, 
Hawkins said. 
"Several witnesses said 
p~ople in the crowd were ur­
ging Williams to shoot him," 
she said. 
Williams had a criminal record dating to 1978 with an arrest in August for assault on a police officer, authorities said. 
His father, Carl L. williams, said the family was in "deep shock." 
"All we know is what the police have told us," the father said. "This is very unusual. It's not like him." 
He said his son was gentle but had a history of mental problems. He declined to elab­orate or to explain why Wil­liams lived on the streets. 

Monday, January 25, 1988 
The Observer page 5 
Cryonics offers cold solution to new life 
Associated Press 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. -When a cryonics company froze Dora Kent's head last month, it was with the hope that the 83-year­old woman could someday be revived and live in a new body without the disease that plagued her first life. 
But while the members of the Alcor Life Extension Founda­tion cast themselves as visionaries, others consider cryonics the work of mad scien­tists. 
Cryonics is the freezing of the bers were handcuffed and dead in hopes that technology taken in for questioning, and 
will someday advance to the the Riverside County coroner point that the bodies can be demanded to examine Mrs. revived -a practice scoffed at Kent's severed head. by most medical authorities. The physician and Alcor 
On Jan. 7, Alcor President member who signed Mrs. Michael Darwin and five mem-Kent's death certificate indi-


PLAY YOUR CARDS RIGHT AND 
YOU'LL GET MORE SPECIAL SAVINGS. 
Somettmes we JUSt don't know when to stop. Not only doc:; LJomtno's Pizza" deliver a great deal like Doubles ­two pizzas for one special pnce-but now we've topped that off wtth even more savtngs And Domino's Pizza deltvers its freshly-baked, custom-made pizza in 30 mmutes or less. Or we'll slice another $3 off the price. So clip these coupons and call Dommo's Pizza today. 
,................, 
Great I I Meal I I Deal $8.88 I I 
I Juf.t !i8.88 for two regular I small cheese p1zzas. I Not valid w1th any other offer. Add1t1onal toppings available at reaular pnce 
Exp1res 1131;88 
I I I I I I

._______________.J 

D~===~ 
OUR HOT, FRESH PIZZA MAKES THESE DEALS WINNERS. 
em 


II. 
a 
Call Us! 
South Bend 


277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
c. 1988 Dom1no s P1zza Inc 


,------·--------.,I 
I Think I I 
I I I Thick I 
I 
I $6.00 I I 
I Only $6.00 for a 12" p1zza I With thiCk crust. extra I cheese and pepperoni. Good on Thursdays only. One coupon per order. Not valid w1th any other offer. 

1131;88
II.E''"" 
Valid at part1C1pat1ng stores only Customer pays appl1cable sates 
L 
lax 
..I 

r-···-----------.,
I Dinner for 4 $10.99 Ask for the Dinner for 4 spec1al and get a 16' two-topping p1zza plus four icy cold 12 oz. cans of Coke" forjust$10.99. One coupon per order. Not valid w1th any other offer. 
I I 
II.E''''" 1!.31 AlB
I I 
I 
Vahd at part1c1patmg stores only Customer pays applicable sales I lax 

'---------------.J 
eating she died from pneumonia, is under review by the University of California, Los Angeles School of Medicine, where he is a post­graduate research pathologist. The man who removed the wo­man's head -a research asso­ciate at the medical school -has been put on a paid leave of ab­sence. 
Alcor has refused to turn over Mrs. Kent's head, and ear­lier this month received a tem­porary court order preventing the coroner from disturbing the frozen remains. A Feb. 1 hearing is set. 
Alcor officials say it is the 
novelty of the field that got 
them into trouble. 
"The law is really behind the 
times in dealing with it," Alcor 
attorney Christopher Leanders 
said. 
Coroner Ray Carrillo has found that few if any regula­tions exist to police cryonics firms. 
"It's a big, new, unregulated field," said John Gill, executive officer of the state Cemetery Board, which licenses cemeteries and crematories. 
Gill would like to see cryonics firms outlawed, but he added, "Nothing is going to happen from a legislative and regulatory point of view until you have more proven abuses." 
There have been abuses. In 1980, authorities, acting on the concerns of relatives, opened a tomb in Chatsworth, where four people were said to be frozen. Instead, they found rot­ting remains. 
"I'm almost certain that we're going to have to do some tightening up of the law," said state Sen. Robert Presley. 
The Riverside County coroner's investigation was sparked because Mrs. Kent's death certificate indicated she died at a residence, later deter­mined to be Alcor's laboratory, without a doctor present. 
An autopsy on her headless body was unable to determine the cause of death. 
An estimated 14 heads or complete bodies are known to be frozen by U.S cryonics firms: two bodies are kept by the Cryonics Institute in Oak Park, Mich.; three heads and two bodies at TransTime Inc., in Oakland, Calif.; and one body and six heads at Alcor, which also has a cat and two dogs. 
Alcor is the second-largest cryonics group in the nation, with about 250 members, 98 of whom want to be frozen, Dar­win said. TransTime claims to be the largest with 102 seeking preservation. The Cryonics In­stitute has about 60 seeking cryonic treatment upon death. 
At Alcor, clients pay $100,000 to have their body frozen, $35,000 for a head. There are also $200 annual dues. 
Pictures taken of clients before their deaths greet visitors at Alcor's two-story lab, in an industrial park 50 miles southeast of Los Angeles. A long-haired man wearing a metal-studded choker and a young woman with a Mona Lisa smile are among the portraits. 
The remains are frozen at 320 degrees below zero. The heads, stored in aluminum canisters, are sealed in a cloth bag and nestled in synthetic wool amid swirling liquid nitrogen. 

Monday, January 25, 1988 


145 nations gather for world AIDS summit 
The Observer I Jim Brake
One step at a time 
A student takes to the staircase in Sorin Hall on his is a way of life on campus and, as this student shows, way upstairs while another student looks on. Walking in dorms, too. 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Health officials from 145 countries are gather­ing in London this week for a world AIDS summit at which they will plan a global assault on the deadly epidemic. 
The three-day conference, which opens Tuesday, will be the largest meeting of govern­ment ministers ever held on a single health problem, accor­ding to the World Health Or­ganization. 
The U.N. agency, based in Geneva, and the British gov­ernment are co-sponsoring the event. 
"The conference, we believe, is going to mark another criti­cal turning point in the global mobilization against AIDS," 
Dr Jonathan Mann the Amer­
ican director of WHC)'s Special •••••••••••• a..a•,.a..a••••••••l 
Program on AIDS, said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Health ministers from 131 countries and government ad­visers from 14 others have 
KILLILEA OLDS NISSAN­'85 Buick Skylark 4 door Air Automatic stereo $4995 '83 AMC Alliance DL 4 door Automatic air stereo $3995 '83 AMC Eagle 4 wheel drive 2 door very clean air auto­matic stereo 6 cylinder$3895 '83 Ford LTD 4 door air au­tomatic stereo $4295 '72 Buick Centurion Conver­tible one owner 66,000 miles $1895 
call Joe Sargent or Tim ••••••••••·--~-;:-=::.=.=-->
.._B_e_rg_e_r_2_5_5_-_9_6_44___........__________., ~...,.;:: ~ 
....._ r.•"'r. ••••••~1 
IF YOU WANT TO BE APHYSICIAN, WE'LL PAY FOR IT. 
If you're w1111ng to 1nvest your skills and knowledge as an A1r Force medical off1cer. we'll1nvest myou and pay your way through med1cal school. It's the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program It pays for * Tu111on;
* 
Books, supplies, equ1pment and lab fees,

* 
Plus a monthly income of more than $550 


Call US AF Health Professions Capt James Richey 
317-848-5830 

Collect ... =-:=--_. ;..,..-.. 
registered for the World Sum­mit of Ministers of Health on Programs for AIDS preven­tion. 
Princess Anne, the daughter of Queen Elizabeth II, will deliver the opening speech. 
Attending from the United States will be Surgeon General Everett Koop; Dr. Robert Win­dom, the No. 2 official at the Department of Health and Human Services; Dr. Gary Noble, deputy director of the Atlanta-based Centers for Dis­ease Control in charge of AIDS activity; and Dr. Peter Fischinger, AIDS coordinator for the Public Health Service. 
Unlike conferences involving medical experts· working on vaccines and treatments for AIDS, this summit deals mainly with government ef­cases doubling roughly each forts to control the spread of year. acquired immune deficiency 

syndrome. 
Its stated aims are: 
-To present WHO guidelines for AIDS prevention and con­trol and consider how they can be used as part of a global strat­egy. 
-To provide an update on the global AIDS situation, includ­ing its social and economic im­pact. 
-To review national policies for slowing the spread of AIDS, with emphasis on public educa­tion campaigns. 
Since AIDS was first identi­fied in 1981, the disease has spread throughout the world, with the number of reported 
Soviet enterprises run in red in several ways 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW-More than one So­viet enterprise in eight lost money last year, and the na­tion's factories have been slow to innovate, the Communist Party daily Pravda reported Sunday. 
The report on the nation's performance in meeting eco­nomic goals set by the party and the government showed many sectors were struggling under sweeping reforms intro­duced by Soviet leader Mikhail 
S. Gorbachev. 

A "great number" of en­terprises that were free to negotiate contracts under the 
Royal couple fly to join Australian bicentennial 
Associated Press 

LONDON -The Prince and Princess of Wales flew to Australia on Saturday to join the country's 200th birthday celebrations. 
Prince Charles, the 39-year­old heir to the throne, and his wife Diana, 26, will spend 10 days in Australia. Upon arrival in Sydney, they will present Britain's bicentennial gift--the square-rigged ship Young En­deavor. 
Their visit is the first of three royal tours in the bicentennial year. Australia is a member of the British Commonwealth. 
In May, Queen Elizabeth II 
WHO had recorded 75,392 AIDS cases in 130 countries as of Jan. 12, but the organization estimates the actual worldwide toll is twice that because many cases are not reported. 
The United States leads the world with 51,361 confirmed cases of AIDS as of Jan. 4. Of 
that  number,  28,683  people  
have died.  
AIDS  destroys  the  body's  

natural immunity to disease, 
I 'TTie 'Road o{ tfze Heart~~ 'Desire
i directed hy 
1' 'Jr. 'lofzn 1Jullne, (,S.C.
1 when 
i 'Fcliruant12tli · l.Jtli·, 1988
I w~re 
i

I Crowe's :Jf(,use, Lake :Vicfziqm1
1 contild 
~-O[{icc o[Campu.; ~11/.nistnt
sign-up de<1dline
l 
I ~ 

! '[cbruant Stfz, 1988 
:--·-·-·--~~·-·---·-·-·-·-··-··-··-·-·-·-~·-·· . 
economic reforms did not meet commitments they undertook, said the report. It was issued by the State Committee for Sta­tistics and published in Pravda. 
Last year about 13 percent of the country's factories and eco­nomic enterprises ran in the red, and economic organiza­tions did not meet goals for high-quality production, the report said. 
"On the whole, they failed to capitalize on the advantages of the new mechanism of man­agement," the report said. It said supplying factories and enterprises with materials con­tinued to be a "sore point." 
and her husband, Prince Philip, will attend the opening of the Australian Parliament, and in early autumn the Duke and Duchess of York will visit. 
In addition to their luggage ­two van loads of it -Prince Charles and Princess Diana took with them "The Ashes," the treasured cricket trophy for which England and Australia have been competing more than 100 years. 
The urn is traditionally never allowed out of Britain, even when Australia wins the series. But in honor of the bicenten­nial, the trophy will be put on display during the bicentennial test match. 
leaving victims defenseless against a variety of infections and cancers. It is fatal, and there is no known vaccine or 
cure. 
AIDS is most often spread through sexual contact. Other ~<nown means of transmission include transfusions of con­taminated blood and blood products and sharing of con­taminated needles by drug abusers. The disease can also be passed from pregnant mot­hers to their unborn children. 
1-1-CI_n_I_O_o_o_o~ 
i 
I 
I i 
•I 
I 
I 
i 
i i i i
i Iji I
I 
I
I 
j 
(l_MJAMINIM I -I
ur.MM'Sify of NotTll Dame 
Naill Dome IN 46556 i 
, • .,""':;;,.;;•.,..~~-! 
--•J1
9•lltH•l 
_j 


Viewpoint
Monday, January 25, 1988 
page 7 

Debate on the homeless ignores causes 
perception of the homelessness along with the nascent agenda for addressing it. But their picture obscures more than it illuminates." With their insistance that all of the homeless are "just like you and me," they paint a Grapes-of­Wrathesque picture of depression traceable to one figure, the Eternal Bogeyman and Great Satan, Ronald Reagan. All-purpose radical activists like Mitch Snyder attempt to connect the whole homeless problem to Nicaragua, the "new" cold war, the American way of life, and any number of other scapegoats. Sadly ironic is their insistance that Reagan's "cuts" in social spending have "caused" the entire problem, as if it never existed before 1981. Reagan's budget in real terms have in fact doubled the amount of social spending since the height of the Great Society in the mid 70's. Peter Rossi, a University of Massachusetts sociologist whose census of the Chicago homeless was published in leading sci­entific journals, says "The advocates want you to say 'there but for the grace of God and the fact that Reagan didn't look at me directly go 1."' Meanwhile the real homeless are out freezing, or festering in shelters with their mental illnesses and self-enervating habits still very much intact. 
Real charity and effective social policy stress self-improvement in order that the individual, if possible, can as­sume a normal role in society; they should not merely institutionalize the problem at a poverty-line level. Under­standing the problems of the individual is key, rather than lumping him into some mythical category. The very na­ture of the present homeless population dictates a need for more than simply some beds and a roof. Liberal social policy ignores such complications, weakly attacking the symptoms but leaving the root of the problem un­scathed. By ignoring basic human at­tributes, it can often create more prob­lems than it solves. Consequently, the problem is merely sustained while money is poured down a black hole. 
A humane society cares for those who have no way whatsoever of taking care of themselves. Effective help for the homeless (especially for the mentally ill homeless who make up such a large segment of the group), is help that is well-intentioned but more importantly, well-planned and specific. 
Glenn Fogarty is enrolled in the Fresh­man Year of Studies. 
Quote of the Day 
"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father In heaven." 
At the start of the 80's, a terrible "new" problem showed up on the TV screen of America: a "just­discovered" mass of people called "the homeless." People of good conscience everywhere wondered where this group had suddenly come from, who they were (and how they got that way), and what could be done to solve the prob­lem. To this day, a big questiop mark remains in the minds of most Americans about the nature of the homeless population, while the impera­tive to "do something" seemingly be­comes greater every day. Clouds of misinformation spewed out by self­styled homeless advocates have merely added to the confusion. We are flip­pantly told that the size of population ranges "oh, between 2 or 3 million or so" and that all of the homeless people themselves are "just like you and me." Such "thinking" fails to confront the truth about homelessness (for various reasons, not just ignorance) while we sit with a national travesty on our hands. 
Glenn Fogarty 
the american vision 
So who, then, are the homeless, and how many are there? University re­searchers, guided by policemen, social workers and local homeless people, have searched through the nation's major cities for the past several years. Most of these empirical scientific studies have placed the number of homeless between 250,000 and 350,000. Ten National Institute of Mental Health studies in different sections of the U.S. have consistently determined that fully one-third (over 100,000) of the homeless are severely mentally ill. Another third suffers from alcohol and drug-related problems, and a sizeable group is com­posed of disturbed veterans. The com­mon denominator of the homeless pop­ulation seems to be a varying degree of mental illness. 
The average American asks "But if they're 'crazy' why are they being left alone?" The answer to that question, my friends, is a story well worth remembering. In 1955, the population of public mental hospitals reached an all-time high at 599,000. Thirty years later, after thousands of evictions and denied admissions, the mental hospital population stood at 146,000. Something obviously happened. 
Through a combination of intellectual 
Doonesbury 
quackery, both professional and politi­
cal, and the "best" of intentions, the 
deinstitutionalization movement was 
born 30 years ago. With the advent of 
psychoactive drugs like Thorazine, 
many psychiatrists believed that the in­
sane could be rendered docile enough 
for release (with occasional treatment 
at "community centers") into society. 
The patients would then improve radi­
cally simply because of the social 
stimulations they would find on the out­
side, in contrast with the bleak routine 
of life inside the hospitals. Popular at 
the time as well were the views of 
crackpot psychiatrists like R.D. Laing, 
who claimed that insanity was merely 
a rational response to an irrational so­
ciety. 
Enter the Civil Libertarians. The liberal American Civil Liberties Union and its ideological bedfellows soon launched an attack upon the idea of in­stitutionalization as a whole, claiming that it interfered with the rights of people whom ''no one'' had the slightest right to deem ''mentally incompetent.'' First they forced a Supreme Court deci­sion that changed involuntary commit­ment procedures from decisions based upon professional judgment to court­room escapades examining a person's "potential for imminent criminality." Through a strategic combination of muckraking and class-action lawsuits, the ACLU managed to shut down scores of mental hospitals, flooding the streets with disgorged mentally ill, combined with a community health system (staffed not by psychiatrists, but mainly social workers) totally unpre­pared to suddenly meet the needs of such huge numbers. 
Unlike the liberal insistance on easy sentences and quick parole for criminals, which makes society the vic­tim, the only victims of deinstitutionalization are most often the mentally ill themselves. It is com­plete hogwash to imagine the fact that it's some triumph of civil liberty when people who are unable to make rational decisions are now "free" to make ra­tional choices. 
Some lessons, however, are rarely learned, even at the expense of making the insane the victims in one's ongoing social tinker-toy. Mayor Koch's plan to place many of New York City's men­tally ill (estimated at 60 percent of New York's total homeless population of 35,000) back into mental hospitals has, unsurprisingly, met fierce resistance. The NYCLU has threatened to sue the 

Ho 
ON~ 15$1}{3. CONTINlJ&S 7D 
JOIN M6,AlON6/AIITH MY
6(X)IJ C.VENING. A5 THE 1988 
PR£<3/{)CNTIAL CAMPAIGN 
WMIN/l:T6 7HE POUTICA/... 
GlJ/3575 VICE P!<&5/WNT 8U5H H&AT5 liP 7lJ O~IUN6,., 
ANT?6.QP. RIVAL-RON HEAO­
0/SCU~SION-TH& 15SlJ6 OF 
R&5T, A~ ABC Nt/A/5 6RAP­Pt&5 /AIITH THE QuesTION... 

City and vilified the mayor, ironically, as an "enemy" of the homeless. Ad­dressing the APA convention in Sep­tember, Koch fired back, "If the crazies want to sue me, they have every right to sue, and by crazies I'm not talking about the people we're going to be helping. I'm talking about those who say 'No, you have no right to intervene to help."' 
. The ACLU joins the self-styled home­less advocates in stating that the home­less don't need any psychiatric atten­tion or special care, just more bends and public housing galore. While nec­essary, these measures leave the root causes of the homeless problem, the be­havioral difficulties, quite intact. Such "advocates" ignore reality. 
Dealing with the problem of the men­tally ill homeless requires pragmatic action in the form of a mental-health system that works. That means 
"The very nature of the present homeless pop­ulation dictates a need for more than simply some bed and a roof. Liberal social policy ignores such compli­
cations~~ 
humane state hospitals for those who can't live uninstitutionalized, and vigorous community outreach pro­grams for the few who can live inde­pendently (and take their medicine) to do so. As to charges that hospitals only offer inhumane treatment, there is no excuse for such a situation, even if re­sources aren't up to par, it is people and methods that are to blame. The funds for such a system are readily available if one looks closely. 
Is any resolution of the problem of the mentally ill homeless on the horizon? Not really. Congress' recent homeless bill provides little if any remedial measures for the root causes of so much of the homelessness (the mental illness and substance abuse). The problems will ultimately remain intact, thanks to ignorance and mis­guided ideas in Congress and the na­tion. Much of the blame rests on the homeless "advocates," a well-meaning lot who more often than not place poli­tical agendas ahead of any pressing concern for the real homeless. Accor­ding to scholar Myron Magnet, "The advocates have shaped the natiopal 
Garry Trudeau 
"6COR6E 81JSH: CO-PilOT OR 
FliGHTA7TENPANP.'' HEY! 
I THAT'SNOT 

Matthew 5:16 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief........... . ........ Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrlder Managing Editor...... . ...... Mark Pankowski Adveftlslng Design Manager ................Molly Klllen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor........ .... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor........... . ......... Jim Ailey Production ManagtN ...... ................ Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... .. .....Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor.......... . ... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor........... . ............. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele
the administration of either institution The News is reported as accurately and objectively as poss1ble. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Saint Mary"s Editor ......... ........... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor........ ... Jim Carroll
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the school community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 
.·-----­
Monday, January 25, 1988

page 8 
-~~--~~----------~~-~----~ ~-~~~ ·~--~­
Accent 

PAUL A. PILGER 
accent writer 
T
he Romantics really pull their weight during a live performance. In their pre-tour, Friday engagement at the acoustically imperfect Stepan Center, the band overcame a subdued crowd and poor sound quality, provided by the facility's domed roof, to give a brief clinic on performing live. 
After a forty-five minute set from special guests Frank Al­lison and the Odd Sox, the Romantics blasted out 20 songs in an hour and a half, including five new tunes from their yet to be released album, and, of course, their classics "What I Like About You," "Rock You Up," and "Talking in Your Sleep." 
Bassist Mike Skill and guitarist Coz Canter provided a wall of rhythm and "the layered background harmonies." Skill started with the band in 1977 as part of its founding nucleus while Canler joined in 1980. 
"We've cut demos for the new ones but we still have to go back in," said a melancholy Wally Palmar of the new album. "I liked the crowd," Wally com­mented, "I like this kind of au­dience better than, say, a bar because they're the same age, and you know where you are with them. They had a good time ... it was a good time." Palmar, the founding Romantic, played guitar and sang lead vocals on the majority of the evening's selections. 
Drummer David Petratos, the newest member of the Roman­tics acquired from South Florida's Slyder in 1985, han­dled the lead vox spot on the remaining tunes. He never missed a beat pounding out the time on his 28 inch bass drum with relentless fervor throughout the evening. Petratos is the partial product of drum mentor Gene Thaler, who has helped to guide such drumming greats as Stew Nevit of Shadowfax and Max Wein­berg of the E Street Band. Petratos' style and experience, as well as that of the entire outfit, was more than evident throughout the evening at Stepan. 
Through a quality musical performance, marred acousti­cally by the lack of an appro­priate facility, and a sincere portrayal of a rock music and goodtimes mentality, the Romantics brought to life what for the mos£ part was a ter­ribly ill crowd. After the show, a certain sense of disappoint­ment was evident on the tired faces of all four band mem­bers, not because the crowd was comatose, but in spite of it as if they could have done more to arouse enthusiasm. Sometimes a horse needs to be shot before it knows it has a broken leg--the crowd missed a great show. 

The evening's opening act . Ann Arbor's own Frank Allison and the Odd Sox, played ·with just as much drive as the head­lining Romantics. Frank Allison, the band's rhythm guitarist and lead vocalist was chosen Ann Arbor's Best Songwriter of 1987 by the Metro Times. Take the Times' word for it on this one. Frank and the Sox performed songs they wanted to play and wanted people to hear with the power and charmisma of a band like the BoDeans--and then some. 
With any luck, Allison, and the Sox, will get some well deserved exposure via their single "The Rodent of Love" and its B side "Some Odd Girl." Unfortunately, this single is available only by mail, so as a special favor to Frank... write: Frank Allison and the Odd SoX'P.O. Box 77961Ann Arbor, Ml 48107. Good luck to Frank and his Sox (Dan Beckett-guitar, John Boyle­bass, Nathan Logus-drums). 
Both the evening's acts, the Romantics and Frank Allison, fit the criteria needed to be filled for the success of a live perfor­mance. Without a harmonious coexistance between the ideals of musicianship and all the elements which create a spe­cific mind set on stage, live performances are moot en­deavors. Still, seeing, and hearing, is believing. 
ATTENTION: 
There will be a 
mandatory meeting for all new and old Accent copy editors today at 
4:00 in The Observer office. 
Soap update 

Duke forced to rejoin mob on 'G.H.' 
All My Children: Cliff decided to file for separation from Nina and seek sole custody of Bobby. Jeremy sent Nick to take care of Erica. Nick found Erica unconscious; her condition was diagnosed as toxemia. Cecily warned Julie she Intends to be there for Charlie. Coming: Nina devises a plan. Another World: Reg ordered his thugs to steai.Jason's watch, but Nicole had it. Jason got beaten after demanding more money from Reg. Mary arrived at the farm just as Jason discovered a bomb. Michael fired his assistant after she hid a card from Donna. Vicki decided to surprise Jamie. Lisa helped Adam.. COming: A race against time.· As the World Turns! Deni5e said she'd help Barbara to survive prison Jife .. Ed . . Patterson t()ld Tonia .he'd ~teal business from Lucinda. Pam befriended. Beau. Rod fit th¢ description of ~aut;:l's atta<:ker,Coming: ~od is unfair!~ accuse_g. Dallas: Bobbyvo\\(esr __• v~ng¢an<:e ory tt)e person he 
··susp~ts.ls.~ehi~g·_·-~isa·s ~ght(Qr custody, ~ ..R. f;ont)nu¥d his p1!1ln to•.t;ontrol Weststar, .. but <HS(;overed 
.t;lnex~ded competition. ;\pril ignored her pdv;:1te investigatofs w;;~rn.ing.about Nicholils. Ctayton's.n~w ~ lp.ter7~t .led him to forget his apd Ejlie's wedding anl1l\lersary. Coming: Bobby defies his brother. Days of Our Lives! Diana made peace with Phillip at his deathbed. When Kim tried helping a·beaten Eve, Kim wasthrown against a 
:\Vall and lost her baby. Eve 
·blamed herself. serena· gave R,mnan the disk; .Justin told Adrienne about his family "bus.iness." COming: Jack goes for blood. Dyn~st:f;Aiex:ls' nightmares about Cecifs death appeared ~o lerid validity.to que;stlons 
about her involvement; Krystle_tol~ Blakeabqut her 
~~~~:~~·~hat•ci~~~~ake 
tAieXis h.eir. . . . . ... tune. Sean urged Alexis to stay in ·· ·the C<:lf11j>aigp, w~Jile he 
· · · · l~ycQ;. ·.. did 
!t? fa 

f() .. . __. u~tfU.l'Wedt1ing for Maggie.arid-.Richard·-were foiled. Tempers flared after Erir;; erupted ?It Richard's bachelor party,.. Melissa 
turned MP at Maggie's. bridal shower. la~ce an~ Toryy fought coming: Avisitor 
brings news. <reoer~J-· Hospitai;Robin was traumatizeq \1/hen Grant · kidnapped Anna and inadver~ent~y c;aused .. 
>Filomena'sde?Jth; Dukll:was 
forced to rejoin the mob 
after he accidentally killed 
Carruthers. Robert accepted 
the job of Police 
Commissioner and fought 
with Duke over Anna. Tom 
and Simone won their 
parent's blessings. Coming: 
Bobbie acknowledges the 
truth. 
Knots Landing: Abby scorned Charles' offer to divorce his wife and marry her. Johnny Rourke became tied to the underworld at Lotus Point. Karen and Mack worried about Greg's strange behavior. 
Coming: Gary consults a 
lawyer. 
Loving: Ava learned Clay's 
blood type from his records 
but couldn't get to Rick's 
medical files, _so she hired a 
P.l. Clay gave Rick a sportscar. Gwyn received another anonymous letter. Carrie began to probe Jim's memory. Corning: Jim makes slow progress. One Life to Live: Max suspected that Rolo and Lita were posing as the Brewsters with the baby. Herb agreed to let Melinda recommit herself to Mountainview and expose Kellogg. Unaware of their 
.identities,..Melinda helped 
Lita.;;~nd the baby after Rolo 
took Lita's money. Tina and 
John left a $ I million 
ransom. Max trapped Rolo at 
his hideout. Coming: Tina 
demands her baby. 
Ryan's Hope: John, Nancy, 
Don, Lizzie ,and Ben 
searched for Owney. after he 
got lost at the zoo. Ryan 
loved the apartment Chaz 
found for them, unaware of 
its expense. Dee was 
outraged to hear about 
Nancy Don working for 
Dakota. 
Coming: Lizzie receives the 
proposal.. Santa Barbara; Mason pledged his love to Julia, andtold Tori their marriage was over. Scott refused to forgive .Gina. La ken moved to !'lew York. After Cain said he loved her, Andrea backed off, her feelings in conflict with herorders.· Pamela feared discovery of Hal's body. COming~ Harry claims another victim. The Young & The Restless: Nikki seduced a. dnmken Victor, who instantly regretted it. Leanna began to poison Ashley. Jill was enraged when Rex admitted he'd fallen for Kay. Chuck told Amy he had slept with Nlna last summer. unaware of her mother's fatal illness. Cricket demanded that Jessica leave town. However, Jill and Kay wanted Jessica to stay. COming: Ashley lies on..her deathbed. 
I98a McNaught5ynd 

Business
Monday, January 25, 1988 
page 9 

Creative entrepreneurism found at Grace foodsales 
By Julie Casko Business Writer 
Editor's Note: This is the final installment ofa series ex­amining the business side of dorm foudsales. 
Since Chuck Bower and Mark Schnur began managing Grace's foodsales in the fall of 1986, yearly sales have in­creased by 27 percent. 
Sales increased by 20 percent in the first year alone. 
The phenominal success of Grace's foodsales. named Sarge's after a short. feisty, retired head maid that Grace residents nicknamed "Sarge", is due largely to Bowers' and Schnur's marketing efforts and efficiency. 
Sarge's is run by three stu­dent managers; Charles Bower I Head Manager), Mark Schnur (I nvcntory Manager) and Paul Waguespack (Personnel Manager). They are advised by Assistant Rector Mike Walsh. 
Two major changes the new management team impli­mentcd were a renovation of the foodsales area, and an ex­pansion of the menu. The large sales revenues resulting from these changes, in addition to low costs, have resulted in sub­stantial profit. 
Reinvesting much of the profits back into capital im­provements of Sarge's was a major priority. "We thought that if we increased the aes­thetics, it would attract people to come down and spend more time here," said Bower. 
Initial improvements in­cluded installing a new ceiling, cedar panelling, and mirrors. A big screen TV was also bought for the lounge area. Bower, Schnur, and Waguespack were able to keep costs to a minimum through doing much of the installation work themselves. 
A second change was an en­largement of the menu. New items include pizza, burritos, chili, submarine sandwiches, popcorn and juices. Prices are kept low to ensure that Sarge's offers the most competitive prices. A large pizza sells for $3.90, Jess than half the price of a small pizza from Dominos'. 
Unlike some of the other dorm foodsales, Sarge's man­agement does not have to pay rent for their space. Their main costs, therefore, come from in­ventory and wages. Because Sarge's management has kept inventory costs low. they can afford to pay Sarge's employees better in compari­son to other foodsales employees. 
Low costs coupled with the initial renovations and menu changes paid off so well .that from 1987 profits management was able to purchase a weight machine, a second big screen TV, an electric organ, and three VCR's for the dorm. In addition, they bought track lighting, a new pizza oven, and a neon sign for Sarge's. 
Nlanagernent has expanded hours and hired more employees in response to in­creasing business. Sarge's is now open 33 hours per week with 25 full-time and 25 tempo­rary workers. The average of 70 pizzas sold every night reflects the high sales volume they have reached. 
Unlike other hall foodsales managers, Bower, Schnur, and Waguespack are on a salary and do not get the profits them­selves. Profits either go back into Sarge's, toward purchases for the dorm, or into the food­sales savings account for fu­ture use. 
At the end of every month the three managers meet with Walsh to decide how to invest their profits. Ideas for addi­tions and new improvements are given at this time. 
Part of the new manage­ments' success can be attrib­uted to their ingenuity. "The one thing I notice of these guys, compared to the people who run other foodsales, is that they're always trying new ideas. They might not always work, but at least they try." 
said Grace senior Glen Hegewald. One innovation is a delivery system to the Pasquerillas. 
The one problem Bower, Schnur, and Waguespack have encountered, is getting their ideas implimented through the University. "Dealing with the University is the worst part be­cause there's so much red tape. And everyone wants a say in what you do but no one wants to follow up and do it," said Bower. 
The large size of Grace offers an advantage through sales po­tential and space available for inventory. 
Because Sarge's serves such a large number of people (550 Grace residents alone) order­ing can be done in bulk through suppliers who deliver and stock Sarge's themselves. This in­creases efficiency by saving management time and money. As inventory manager, Schnur is in charge of ordering, dealing with suppliers, and general maintenance. 
Waguespack is in charge of personnel and all of Sarge's banking. His duties include hiring, training, and schedul­ing the workers. 
Bower, head manager, is in charge of Sarge's finance and accounting. He oversees all operations while taking care of 
· the books and the payroll. Every month Bower must sub­mit a balance sheet and income statement to Walsh. 
Both Bower and Schnur devote about 15 hours per week to Sarge's. Although they say that their reponsibilities take "half a grade point off the GPA," both agree that the rewards have been well worth the effort. 
"It's basically like an intern­ship," said Bowers. "We've 
_ learned managerial capabili­ties such as handling people, money, and inventory," Schnur said. He added, "We have a lot of pride in our ac­complishments. We've done a Jot here since we've taken over.'' 
Delco to offer car OAT players 
Associatt'd Press 
WARREN, MICH. -There will be few, if any, tapes to play on them, but Delco Electronics Corp. will be providing digital audio tape players for some General Motors Corp. vehicles by summer, Delco officials said. 
Digital audio tape systems, or DATs, offer virtually peifect sound reproduction because like CDs, or compact disc sys­tems, the music they play is translated into digital signals­-numbers--when it is recorded. 
"DAT is the next step in playback capability format. We want to be one of the first to offer it and develop it." said John Crawford, Delco Electronics' general market­ing director. 
Although DAT players and recorders are available in Europe and Japan, resistance from the entertainment and recording industries has so far prevented their introduction in the United States. 
Those industries fear that the high quality of DAT sound reproduction could eat into sales of original recordings even further than existing home taping systems, so they have taken their case to Congress. 
But Delco Electronics, a sub­sidiary of GM Hughes Electronics Corp., expects the dispute to be resolved soon and has decided not to wait to be among the first on the U.S. auto sound market. 
"The consumer has come to expect the same type of sound in an automobile as they can get in their living room. What's amazing to me is that we've been able to do it," said Donald Almquist, Delco E:lectronics vice president and general manager. 
Ford Motor Co. already has announced it will offer a Sony system in this country, said Mi­chael Shoemaker, supervisor of Delco's playback mecha­nisms group. 
Delco announced Wednesday it will offer optional radio sys-terns that include CD players after March 1 and will follow with a DAT system probably by summer. Prices have not been set, said W. Don Helm, Delco's audio systems direc­tor. 
Delco showed prototypes of its CD and DAT player systems at a three-day "Technology in Motion" show at GM's Tech Center styling dome in Warren. 
The CD system will be of­fered on 30 GM models and the DAT system initially on selec­ted GM cars. But both will fit any car equipped with a recent Delco radio system, said Deb Morgan, one of many Delco employees explaining exhibits at the show. 
Since DAT tapes, blank or pre-recorded, aren't yet sold in this country, Delco will provide a set of three pre-recorded tapes to everyone who buys its DAT system, Crawford said. 
A DAT tape is about half the size of a standard cassette but holds about two hours of pro­gramming, compared with an hour or 90 minutes for most cassettes. 
Ugliness more than skin deep for Yugo 
rrWilliam E. Prior, president of Yugo of America, predicted sales of 200,000 Yugos a year, as quoted in the Wall Street Journal. Yugo sales were held down to 49,000 in 1987 because of poor quality, little reliability, and a blatent lack of styling. 
Despite their intense efforts to overcome these problems, one fatal flaw remains: the car is ugly. Starting at $4200, the car's price rises to $10,000 with options. The higher range borders the cheaper and far more stylish Mazdas, and the lower range comes within a few thousand dollars of the higher quality Hyundais. With a big purchase such as a car, people are more apt to spend the extra money for style. This suggests a bleak outlook for Yugo's future in this country. '::7 Business Week observed that those in the market for blank audio cassettes should stock up soon. The falling dollar is forcing leading cassette makers, including Max ell, to raise prices by as much as 20 percent on Feb. 1. 
Wholihan and 
-

~ Murray I!'J.. 
...

.,.,.,,.-Business Briefs 
~ 

u There have been two developments at Eastman Kodak Company. The company recently announced that in March they will begin delivery of two new color copiers. Kodak wants to join the growing color copier market, which is ex­pected to reach $2 billion within two years. The new copiers cost $54,000 and produce color copies for just under fifty cents each. 
Friday saw Kodak enter the $110 billion pharmaceutical market with its $5.1 billion purchase of Sterling Drug Inc. The $89.50 per share offer easily surpassed previous bids by Roffman-La Roche & Co. Kodak will be taking advantage of the American pharmaceutical industry's profitability, boosted recently by a weak dollar and the quicker approval of new products. The loss of its instamatic camera line does not seem to be slowing the giant. '::7 Columnist Carol Kleiman recently wrote about a study of the the Peace Corps Dr. Joseph O'Donoghue. He has fol­lowed the careers of 1000 Peace Corps alumni, and found that they tend to rise above their peers in careers after their tour of duty in the Corps. The salaries of Peace Corps alums are 13.5 percent higher in education, 10.6 percent higher in government and a whopping 40.1 percent higher in health service. The rest, including business professions, earned an­incredible 68.98 percent higher than the average. 
Does this mean that joining the Peace Corps will build one into a super worker? 
Unfortunately, Dr. O'Donoghue overlooked the obvious fact that those who have the motivation to spend a year or two in a third world country helping the poor will be as motivated in their careers, and will be more than willing to make the necessary sacrifices. The Peace Corps more than likely gives less of an opportunity to build a great worker, and more of an opportunity to prove oneself. But if that is an obvious fact to us, it will be an obvious fact to employers when searching through resumes. u Another instance of Spuds Mackenzie bashing occurred over the holiday season. As part of a their holiday promotions, Anheuser-Busch put Spuds dressed as Santa Claus suit on Bud Light twelve-pack cases. The State of Ohio, however, banned the sales of these festive cases of beer. According to an obscure Ohio law, Santa Claus may not be used to promote alcoholic beverages. 
The Economy Onder President Reagan 

1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1988 1988 1987 Source: Department of Commerce (projected) 
Monday, January 25, 1988

page 10 The Observer 
Fitzgerald, a native of Rochester, Minnesota. ''A lot of
Sweep 
the time we would be totally

Sports Briefs 
continued from page 16 dominating the game and yet 
The. Tae K won <?lub will m~et. today at T~e Rugby Club will hold a mandatory 7 p.m. m the JACC fencmg gym. This IS the last meetmg today at 4:45p.m. in the Haggar Hall night for beginners to start. If interested, come Auditorium. All new and old members of the for a free lesson. For more information, call team are encouraged to attend because the 
Greg Barron at 2180. -The Observer 
• 
.Julie Bremmer, one of the nation's top high school volleyball players has announced her plans to attend Notre Dame next fall. Bremmer led Wheaton-St. Francis of subur­ban Chicago to the Class AA final this past year and was named the Reebok National co­Player of the Year. Bill Feldman, director of the Midwest Volleyball Scouting Reports calls Bremmer, "probably the best collegiate set­ting prospect ever and certainly the best to ever come out of the Midwest. -The Observer 
In the NBA Sunday, Washington routed Philadelphia 131-99, Atlanta knocked off New Jersey 118-111, Indiana beat Phoenix 128-109, the Lakers stopped Seattle 116-109 and Portland pounded Detroit 119-111. -Associated Press 
In NUL action, Los Angeles topped Winnipeg 2-1, Hartford dumped Detroit 2-1 (OT), Minnesota beat Philadelphia 5-3, Montreal defeated Quebec 5-3 and Chicago knocked off Vancouver 3-1. -Associated Press 
Mats Wilander defeated Pat Cash to win the Australian Open tennis title, 6-3, 6-7 (3-7), 3-6, 6-1, 8-6. The win gave Wilander his fifth Grand Slam title. -Associated Press 
Squash players interested in playing in the Mutual Benefit Companies 1988 Chicago Squash Open from Feb. 5-8, please contact Allan Lim at 3211. -The Observer 
winter practice schedule will be discussed. No experience or athletic ability required. Any questions, call Tim at 234-5986. -The Observer 
The _Tae Kwon Club will meet today at 7 p.m. m the JACC fencing gym. This is the last night for beginners to start. If interested, come for a free lesson. For more information call Greg Barron at 2180. -The Observer ' 
Bookstore Basketball XVII Commissioner applications can be picked up at the secretaries desk on the second floor LaFortune. Any sophomore interested in the position should turn in an application by to­morrow. Interviews will be conducted from January 27-29. Any questions, call Steve Wenc at 271-0573. -The Observer 
Any freshman· interested in becoming a s~udent ma~ager should attend an organi­zational meetmg tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the JACC auditorium. Call the managers' office at 239-6482 after 2:30 p.m. weekdays if you have any questions. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will begin practice today at 8:30 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. -The Observer 
SMC intramural basketball entry forms are now available at Angela Athletic Facility. The forms for the five-on-five league are due Monday, Jan. 25. -The Observer 
was good, but he wasn't that good." 
Even more disconcerting was the Bison's quick lead and ability to stay with the Irish despite the barrage of Notre Dame shots on goal. North Dakota State jumped out to 1-0 lead just 54 seconds into the game, and held a 3-1 advantage midway through the second period before Tim Kuehl and Thomas Smith tallied to knot the score at the end of the per­iod. Bob Bilton got the game­winning goal and the Irish held on for the win. 
On Saturday night, the roles were reversed. The Bison were forced to play catch-up as Notre Dame bolted to a 5-1 first period lead. But a second­period letdown allowed North Dakota State to close the gap to two goals, 6-4, at the end of two periods. That was as close as they would come, however, as third-period insurance goals by the Irish assured the out­come. 
Junior left wing Tom Fitzgerald, who scored twice and added an assist in Saturday night's game, echoed his coach's contention that the Irish will need to raise their game a notch in order to win their remaining games and keep faint post-season NCAA tournament hopes alive. 
"We had a really bad second period on Saturday," said keeping the score close with silly mistakes. You still get the scary feeling that no matter how much you think you're dominating, one screw-up defensively could cost us the game." 
Senior defenseman Frank O'Brien agrees with Fitzgerald. 
"We have a tendency to play at our opponent's level, whatever that is," said O'Brien. "We're a decent team, but we've got to be con­sistently good if we're going to be really good. We can't just be great one week and slack off the next." · 
The Irish are home for their next three series, starting with next week's action against ACHA rival Kent State. In two weeks, Notre Dame faces Air Force, a team ranked slightly ahead of the Irish among in­dependents. Of all the indepen­dent teams in the nation, one will receive a bid to the NCAA championships. 
The Irish are ranked fifth and the Falcons fourth in those rankings, but Air Force holds wins over teams ahead of it. 
"It's a confusing situation," said Schafer, referring to the playoff situation. "But all we want to do is win hockey games. If we keep winning and the teams above us stumble, great. But all we can do is to prepare for our own games." 

Tille ca-..Non Dime offtc:e, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­clint CenW, .ccepta claalfted edwertl81ng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday thnJugh Frtdar. n.ca-..Selnt a..y"a offlce, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•. eooepts ciMalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through frtdar. DMdllne for next._claaalfledsls 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must 
Classifieds be pnlpald, el~ In penon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five chlnct8ra ....day. 
NOTICES  LOST: Chopard Watch of great sen­timental value. Lost around the library or Breen-Phillips. Watch has a maroon band and a glass lace. PLEASE call1325 if found.  SUMMER JOB INTERVIEWS: Average earnings $3,100. Gain valuable experi· ence in advertising, sales, and public re­lations selling yellow page advertising lor the Notre Dame Telephone Directory.  THE SCREAMING MIDGETS WILL BE BACK MORE HELLISH  SARAH "LAME DUCKESS" HAMIL· TON, THANK YOU FOR THE WONDERFUL COOKBOOK. SURPRISED TO SEE MY RECIPES IN IT. REMEMBER THE  Welcome Encounter 4 group to the NDE family! Today begins "the fourth day." Strive to be happy... -an NDE ·2 groupie  
FOUND: A gold ring in Ladies Room of  Travel Opportunities. Expense paid training program In Chapel Hill, NC.  THAN EVERI  "DRUGS" IN YOUR MAILBOX FOR THE DIP?  Why pay so much lor so little???  
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 277WI051 DAY. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. TERRIE'S TYPING Word Processing, Laser Printer, Close to Campus. Resumes, letters, papers. 287·1283 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block  Alumni Hall. Found during first week of semester. Call 3792 at ND. Help we lost our favorite scarfs! One red plaid wool scarf was lost December 16 in the Huddle. The other was a maroon and grey plaid scarf lost January 12 be· tween the JACC and Cushing. II you have any information regarding their whereabouts please call us at £3433 ································································ LOST: PEARL RING, SET IN GOLD--lost the Friday before Break in the vinclnity of the Circle and Alumni Hall. II found call 284-4141. RING IS OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE AND A REWARD IS OFFERED.  Looking lor enthusiastic, goal· oriented atudenlll lor challenging, well-paying summer job. Sign up lor Interviews with University Directories at Career I PIIICIIIIIent Services, Lower Level Heaburgh Ubrary by Jan­uary 29. FOR SALE Ia It True You Cen Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the leclll todllyl Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7318.  Sell old texts lor $$$. Pandoras -808 Howard (1 block off ND Ave). Open daily 1 0·5:30. Also save $ on used books. DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA-ROUND TRIP,7 NIGHTS FROM $199 CALL CHRIS 3382 NOWI "OBTAINING A SUMMER INTERN­ LOVE, OLD WIFE 8Eiit.;;;·e;\"[)"""iiEA"Nfiii;:o···aEANHEAo BEANHEAD BEANHEAD DOES PICAS· SO...COMING TO A GALLERY NEAR YOU I sAvE·;:;;·e·:ruFirL:e·i:~~~~g:·i;;;u~-~~~ new home. Has provided us with many hours of entertainment. Answers to the name FLASH. Any REASONABLE offer will not be refused. This is NOT a joke. £30881.l085 ·ask lor Tim, Jay, or John. SAVE FLASH  FEMALE AUDmONS lor Cavanaugh Hall's production of '1"he Best Man" a political farce by Gore Vidal, will be held in rm 118 Niewland on Mon­day, Jan.25 and Tuesday, Jan.26 at 7:30pm. No Experience Necessary LOST : a NO gray scarf that my little sister gave me in South Dining Hall last week. Would greatly appreciate its return. Call John 1388  
off NO Ave). Open daily 10·5:30 TYPING SERVICE 259-2334 TYPING -GALL DOLORES 237-1849 SEND YOUR VALENTINE SOME  MISSING. I am missing a dark grey Wil· demess Experience backpack from the South Dining Hall at lunch on wednesday, Jan,20. It was chock-lull-o' books and other neat stuff very dear to me. If found, being reunited with~ would be just dandy. call Chris £4294 LOST: GREY AND YELLOW OBER­ For Sale, Smith Corona Typerwr~er Call Oon 271-0653 Great Hockey Equipment-Call Don 271· 0653  SHIP" PRESENTA110N BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE· MENT SERVICES OFACE TONIGHT AT 8:30 p.ll'l. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL MAJORS ARE INVITED. REPEATED TOMORROW NIGHT-SAME TIME, SAME PLACE. "OBTAINING A SUMMER INTERN- o say can you see by ttie dome's glowing light what so proudly we sail from the top of our tree whose wide briefs with blue stripes fly silently in the night... JIM'Betsy Ross'WINKLER...your flag's a'ftappiing in the windlll  Hey Fish-heads, get out of bed ~·s Mon­day mominglllll Oh well, another Sunday another shot party. Pour me anything I'll drink ~ (but don't smell ~). Bolge is still a transparent girl and Chip is a closet feminist but IT"S TOO LATE TO START A RELATIONSHIP ANYWAY SO DOWN THE HATCH!!!!!! 'Ill the next sabbath, M.  
HAND-DIPPED CHOCOLATES DELIVERED TO YOUR DESIRED DORM. CALL 287-6073 FOR DETAILS.  MEYER SKI JACKET CONTAINING BROWN WALLET IF FOUND CALL TRENT AT 1462  TICKETS  SHIP" PRESENTA110N BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CA!IEER AND PLACE·  ;:;:;ii-ooii.coliP"L:e·riie.ooo·c·ouPi:e You thought you and your roommate  Today is a very special day ... Nineteen years ago on this 25th of January... KATHY PELLEK WAS BORNI HAPPY  
( LOST/FOUND I IL.-_FO_RR_E_NT____.J LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT· Partially furnished ranch 3 bedrooms -2 lNG GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE baths washer-dryer-oven-stove­FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE refrigerator-softner great neibourhood, WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO off Angela blvd. ideal lor 3 students call 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY 232·3616 TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I REALLY NEEDiflf OFUANISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288································································· LOST ·DATALIFE 8 INCH FLOPPY 09551 255-3684 DISK, SOMEWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD ................................................................ OR ALONG NOTRE DAME AVE. ON Apartment in ND Apts. Looking lor female WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON. PLEASE to share expenses w~h 3 others until CALL LINDSAY AT 2927 REWARD May. Call Cathi at 3n3. REWARD REWARD REWARD  I need 3 UCLA tix stud or GA call 277· 7137 ································································ PERSONALS Gary Hart is coming to campus Saturday night lor the Keenan Revue. He has a ticket, but he wants to bring a date. So I NEED ONE TICKET lor SATURDAY NIGHTS REVUE. Money (or anything else) is no object. Call Mark P. at 283· 1539 or 239·5313 to help. THE CPA IS ON THE WAYI STUDY TODAYI VEAl  MENT SERVICES OFACE. TONIGHT AT 8:30 p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL MAJORS ARE INVITED. REPEATED TOMORROW NIGHT-SAME TIME, SAME PLACE. "OBTAINING A SUMMER INTERN­SHIP" PRESENTA110N BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES OFACE. TONIGHT AT 8:30 p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL MAJORS ARE INVITED. REPEATED TOMORROW NIGHT-SAME 11ME, SAME PLACE. "OBTAINING A SUMMER INTERN­SHIP" PRESENTA110N BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE·  weren't a match? ··················i<ee"NA"N..iiEvue················· KEENAN REVUE The first name in campus entertainment is coming January 28,29,30. THE KEENAN REVUE IS COMINGIIIIIIII TEFiFivi................................................... HOPE YOU HAD A GREAT ENCOUNTER! THIS ONE IS FOR YOU. AT Hi Eliz~t;.;"j;;··--·--····································· Here you go Turn up the rock And get to know your neighbor  BIRTHDAY! ME. <3~-e~~k·t~··;;i;;~;;ii···············--················ ································································ All people are bom right-handed But only the best of us can over come Ill Brought to you by the League of Left-handers Female looking lor roommates to move off campus. Call Tina 4311. STUDENTS FOR DUKAKIS ARE TRAVELLING TO IOWA THIS WEEKEND AND NEXT WEEKEND TO WORK FOR MIKE IN THE CAUCUSES. CALL TIM 288-7929 OR HOWARD 2n­3590 FOR MORE INFO. ································································ My Dearest Utt/e Rabbit, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, HUNI  
LOST/I/ LOST MY FAVORITE RED CAP SATURDAY NIGHT. IT WAS LOST EITHER ON PORTAGE AVE. OR AT  WANTED  oi"ii"H"olise:·c-c;"Lo·aiiE"ii.&"LiaiioR. CARRY OIIT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE  MENT SERVICES OFACE. TONIGHT AT 6:30 p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL MAJORS ARE INVITED. REPEATED TOMORROW  The uttimate big bro ;;j;:;···········································--··········-­ You are my lila and I will love you forever. Your, Caroline  
CAMPUS VIEW. IF YOU FIND IT, PLEASE CALL STEPHEN AT 3018. THERE IS A SMALL REWARD IF FOUND I ................................................................ LOST: PAIR OF PRESCRIP. BROWN­RIMMED GLASSES IN TAN HARD­BACKED CASE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 4559 OR 2698.  HIRINGI Government jobs -your aree. $15,000-$88,000. Cell (802) 1138-8885, Ext. 8282. ·········uA"L:e.voc:Ausr.w.\mo········ lor RIR band. Tenor preferred. C•ll Ell t11-o804, or Melt 27HI804.  BLOCK SOIITH OF HOLIDAY INN. BILL WEBB DAY February 12, 1988 Only 18 shopping days left • ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!!::!::::::::::::.-::.•::.-:.•:• ATTENTION FORMER MALE HOWARD RESIDENTS WHO ARE  NIGHT-sAME TIME, SAME PLACE. ................................................................ SHE"S GOT BETTY DAVIS EYESIIIII Dear QT, sweet pea, hugging cake-­HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Now that the first quarter century is over, I hope we'll ba together lor the next ones I My car is his· tory, but I hope we can still fly away to­ Here·s your personal What are you going to do for the coolest guy Oust ask Leanne)? Have a nica week. Mr. Sarcastic iil"cp:\·z.m·······--································· Greetings from Hell It's nice here, and the Brut (by Faberge)  ································································ ATTN: ST. MARY'S STUDENTS Yogi's Yogurt will deliver on Tues. 1 Thurs. between 7 I 9 pm. Cell 2n­4337. ................................................................ Karallllll You are vicious and cruel! I Shea-manIIIII!  
................................................................ LOST:SEIKO WATCH with silver and gold band white lace, sometime before  ................................................................ Babyahtera needed to worll per your ach. lor delightful 2 112 yr. girl. Need  NOW JUNIORS: We are trying to orga· nize a Howard gathering during the hall socials after the JPW dinner. II you would  gether, and I still say you have a cute nose! Newton  smells good Only 110 more days Your loving cellmate  No need to worry. lhe wide angle len.. was on Luke and Chris,  
break. HS grad. present-BIIIIGG REWARDIII Call Mike, 2112. ................................................................ LOST: GREY SKI JACKET at Rat's house last Thursday night. H found call Jerry at #1728. No questions asked and reward offered.  own trllnap I like cete. $2.50 plus hr. 287-3315. ciitDi"ii:Ai=Es.Foii"si<i.sciiooi:.A"ifi> SKI PATROL, CONTACT SWISS VAL­LEY FOR APPUCA110N (818) 244­5835.  be interested in attending, and we know you will, call Kevin Walsh at X3609 and sign up. We need everybody signed up by January 27 and the sooner you sign up the better, so call nowl Also, whenever you see other Howard guys tell them about this. Thanks.  TALENTED MALES: SHENANIGANS IS AUDITIONING MEN TO FILL AN OPENING I CALL DAN AT 3596 WE NEED A SAX, TOO.  ;:;;~~i;;;·i~·jj;~-ii~v;·~;;~·;;;ip;;;j·;;~~j;·~~ car back through the fence Thurs. night in D-21 The grateful owner of the wMe Chevy  Thanks lor taking time out of your male bonding weekend to stop by our dance. Cheddar head, T.D., and Paul, Thanks lor putting up with Pop Farley's DRUNKFESTI Here's to next yearlllllllll  
................................................:...............  

------~-~-------~ 
--
-~ 
---..----­
Human' award 
the NBA's leading scorer this season, was third with 206 points, including 24 first-place votes, 22 seconds and 20 thirds. 
Another NBA star, Magic Johnson of the Los Angeles Lakers, the league's most valu­able player last season, and Bo Jackson, who played baseball with the Kansas City Royals and football with the Los An­geles Raiders in 1987, tied for fourth with 192 points each. Johnson collected 24 first-place 
,votes and Jackson 20. 
Jordan, Johnson and heavyweight champion Mike Tyson, who finished ninth with 170 points, tied for the second­most first-place votes with 24 apiece. 
Last year's Male Athlete of the Year, Larry Bird of the NBA's Boston Celtics, got only four first-place votes this time and wound up in a 16th-place tie with 20 points. 
The Associated Press Female Athlete of the Year will be announced Monday. 
page 11 

------------~ 
Monday, January 25, 1988 
The Observer 

The Notre Dame wrestling team lost a tough one to Clarion State Friday. Steve Megargee has the 
McCann not satisfied with close, as wrestlers fall to Clarion State 
By STEVE MEGAHGEE a rebuilding year for the knew we were in trouble," said Sports Writer Golden Eagles. Injuries and in­McCann. "We had to have 150. experience <eight of the 10 That hurt us. There's no way Notre Dame wrestling coach Clarion wrestlers were either he <Layton) should have lost Fran McCann wasn't about to freshmen or sophomores) had that match. He just didn't look be satisfied with coming close. Clarion coming to Notre Dame real good; his concentration 
'Fastest takes AP 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sprinter Ben Johnson, acclaimed the "World's Fastest Human" after breaking the world record in the 100-meter dash last year when he went unbeaten in 21 races, was named The Associ­ated Press Male Athlete of the Year on Sunday by an over­whelming margin. 
Johnson became the first Canadian track athlete to win the honor and only the second Canadian in the award's 57­year history -the other was hockey player Wayne Gretzky in 1982. Johnson received 48 first-place votes, 18 seconds, 28 thirds and 322 points in ballot­ing by sports writers and broadcasters. Points were al­loted on a 5-3-1 basis. 
Wide receiver Jerry Rice of the San Francisco 49ers, who set an NFL record with 22 touchdown receptions in only 12 games, finished second with 222 points on the basis of 22 firsts, 26 seconds and 34 thirds. 
Chicago's Michael Jordan, 
Two years ago, the Irish had with a winless (0-7) record. was nil. If he had won that faced Clarion. a nationally­And at first, it looked like match, we would have won." 
Rivers
heralded wrestling school, and Notre Dame <4-2) was ready to Major decisions by 158-pound had been blown out 32-8. In last add another number to freshman Mark Gerardi and 
continued from page 16 
f<'riday's rematch at the JACC Clarion's loss column. Major 177-pound junior Chris Geneser Pit, Clarion won by a single decisions by 118-pound sopho­gave Notre Dame a 19-12 lead free-throw attempts (85.3 per­point, 20-19. But that was small more Andy Radenbaugh and with two matches left. But as cent), said. "Before I shoot, I consolation for the fourth-year 134-pound junior Jerry Durso, fate would have it, the match see it going in. Irish coach. and a win by 142-pound senior ended with the strongest part "Today I was penetrating 
"What's the difference be­Ron Wisniewski, gave the Irish of Clarion's lineup going more and trying to hit the open tween one and 24?" said an early 11-4 lead. against the weakest part of man on the wing. That opened McCann. "We are a better But in the turning point of the Notre Dame's lineup. things up, and I was able to hit team. We have too many teams dual match, Clarion sopho­Senior John Flaherty of a few shots in the lane." better than us on our schedule, more Brian Burk defeated Clarion beat walk-on sopho­For Kansas, they watched an so we have to win the ones like Irish freshman Todd Layton 8-6 more George Logsdon 13-6, and 11-point lead evaporate in the this -the ones we're expected in the 150-pound competition. then Clarion's freshman second half as Manning was un­to win." Burk's surprising victory put heavyweight Kurt Angle able to get the ball inside. 
Indeed, while Clarion has Clarion within striking dis­defeated walk-on Irish senior "I'm disappointed," said consistently been in the top 20 tance of a comeback. Dom Prinzivalli 25-10 on a tech­Jayhawk head coach Larry in recent years, this has been "When we lost that one, I nical fall at 1:43 into the third Brown, whose squad dropped 
period. The five-point technical to 12-5. "This really hurts. We
~~==~~==~'~===M====~~~~~==-"==~ 
fall gave Clarion the 20-19 ad­never got the ball in Danny's vantage and its first win of the hands the last 10 or 12 minutes.

HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
season. We would come off a time out "We've got four walk-on's on talking about how we would get
LIZ CALLAGHAN! 
our lineup, and that makes it the ball to Danny, then a guard tough," said McCann. would take a 22-footer. Our kids 
"What kind of bothered me have to realize they have to get about this match is that it the ball into the star's hands. looked to me like they wanted "We let the 11-point lead slip 
So... 
How old are you? 
it a little more than we did." away because we got too offen­Notre Dame's next competi­sive minded too soon. We were 
tion comes on Jan. 30 in the Na­shooting very quickly when we
We love you! 

tional Catholic Tournament at need to be patient." 
Cleveland. They Irish, though, showed the patience of Job. They had 
trailed from the opening tip when the Jayhawks Milt New­ton slammed an alley-oop pass
&. Robyn Annette, Maureen, 

four seconds into the game. The Irish trailed by as much as eight in the half, and if not for Keith Robinson's four-for-four from the floor, it could have been worse. Robinson finished
1--------------$50 
with 10 points and 10 boards.
I 
Kansas had a 41-36 halftimeI $50 Coupon for: lead and threatened to put the game away m the early stages
I Indoor Soccer I Sign-up at 
I South Bend Turners SPRING BREAK IN CANCON 
I Ironwood at the Toll Rd. MEXIC0-8 days, 7 nights
I 
* 
8 game session starting NOW

* 
Weeknights 1 0 pm • ? From $365 up, pays for transportation,


I 
I 
hotel accommodations, free parties, and
I * $50 deposit required per 15 1 member t':am (total fee-$350) much more! 1 *Late entr1es accepted. 1 
Go where the sun shines 280 days a year,
I THIS COUPON EXPIRES FEB. 13 I 
with white beu'-hes, blue oceans, and no1 Call 277-0851 for more informatio... 
one knows what an lD is. 
I $50 Indiana's First Built $SO I Come to Mexico -call Doug at 1650
I Indoor Soccer Arena I 
-
Saturday's Results Notre Dame 80, Kansas 76 Kansas (76) 

M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Piper  30  2-8  0-0  1  3  4  
Newton  30  6·9  0-1  7  3  15  
Manning  40  9-13  4-6  9  4  22  
Livingston  26  2-3  0-0  1  4  4  
Pritchard  29  6·13  0-0  1  4  14  
Barry  6  0-0  1-2  0  1  1  
Minor  20  2-6  2-2  1  2  6  
Masucci  4  1-1  1-1  1  3  3  
Harris  15  3·4  1-2  1  0  7  
200 31-57  9-14  22  24  76  
FG  Pet.  -.544.  FT  Pet  - .643.  Team  

rebounds -1. Turnovers -10. Assists -19 (Livingston 6). 3-point goals · Newton 3. Pritchard 2. Techmcals -none 
Notre Dame (80) 

M FG-A FT-A R F p Stevenson 36 7·9 1·2 1 3 15 Voce 39 5-9 3-5 3 1 13 Paddock 8 0-0 3-4 2 3 3 Rivers 38 7-16 14-15 5 3 29 
J. Jackson 31 3-8 2-3 2 1 8 Fredrick 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Singleton 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Connor 11 1-1 0-0 3 0 2 Rob1nson 33 4-6 2·3 10 3 10 
200 27-49 25-32 26 14 80 

FG Pet. -.551 FT Pet -.781. Team rebounds -8. Turnovers -13. Ass1sts · 12 (Rivers 7). 3-point goals -R1vers 1. Technl­cals -none. 
Hallt1me -Kansas 41. Notre Dame 36 01­liclals -J.C. Leimbach. Stan Reynolds. R1ch Eichhorst (all B1g E1ght). A· 11.418 (c) 
r­
... 
boredom on this campus. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

S. U. B. is seeking fun, dedicated, enthusiastic, and creative people who 
would 'like to provide Notre Dame students with beneficial services and wild and crazy social activities. We are now accepting applications for commissioner positions for the 1988-89 school year. 
CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSION: Did you see Hypnotist Gary Conrad ::::: or Larry '''Bud" Melman, Rita Rudner, and Emo Phillips in the AT & T Comedy tour? These :) were sponsored bythe Campus Entertainment Commission which also sponsors ''We Can Make ) You Laugh," Nightclub Nights at Theodore's, trips to Chicago, and various social events. :H: 
::::: SPECIAL EVENT_S COMMISSION· What about An Tostal? Who are the people in charge ): of that? The Spec1al Events C?mmission, sponso~s this along_with other week-long events
II such as Welcome Week, Multi-Cultural Fall Fest1val, and Wmterfest. 
M~SICAL ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSION: What did you like about THE ROMANTICS? 
Th1s concert was brought to you by the Musical Entertainment Commission as were concerts ..·.· by IPSO FACTO, PIECES OF A DREAM, TRIP SHAKESPEARE, and PAR 3. This commission j)j
't is also responsible for the NAZZ competition, campus band jams, and lip sync contests. ••••• 
::U IDEAS AND ISSUES COMMISSION: This commission sponsors lectures on campus by national .::::· ::::: speakers such as John Kenneth Galbraith, George Plimpton, and Shirley Chisholm. They are also iili involved in planning debates and panel discussion. 
MOVIE COMMISSION: You can always count on being able to go to see a movie at 
Cushing Auditorium. The Movie Commission"is responsible for the popular new and 
classic movies shown weekly on campus. 
:::::: 
CULJURAL ARTS COMMISSION: Remember the ODOSan Francisco Dance Company and the Alpha-Omega Players' performance of BAREFOOT IN THE PARK? The Cultural Arts Commission is responsible for these performances as well as the SOPHOMORE LITERARY 
II ~~~i:i~~~O ~~Tc~g~L~~~~~~; J~z;i:~~~~VA}~d~t~~~D~~Ts~~A~~~t~i~~~R~~~u~~~~~· 
... SERVIC~S COMMISSION: Are you headed to South Padre or Vail for Spring Break? ~j~~jj! These tnps are brought to you by the Services Commission. They also provide valuable 
!i1 PUBLICITY s:::~I::~OS:E:::~b:~~· t::~~:D :~k:K ::~E~:n~~::i::~::r ::::~s~ll 
mJ these gr~at events. This commission coordinates all the advertising such as Observer and . . . j~~r Scholastic ads, posters, table tents, and other methods to '·get the word out" about S.U.B. act1v1t1es. 
BUS~E~S AUDITOR· If you're a business major, this may be the position for you. ... ffie Aud1tor maintains the books and keeps the financial statements for the S.U.B. student-run businesses such as ADWORKS, IRISH GARDENS, and THE CELLAR. 

Applications for these positions are available in the secretary's office, second floor LaFortune, and are due on Feb. 1. Interviews will be held the next week. Stop by the S. U. B. office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune 

_.....-----~---­
Monday, January 25, 1988 

---~-----~ 
The Observer 
Basketball roundup 
Michigan thumps 
page 13 

Hoosiers 
17-4 over the next four-and-a­
half minutes to regain control. 
Arizona improved to 8-0 in the Pac-10, while UCLA fell to 3-4 in the conference and 7-10 overall. 
Tar Heels 77, Wolfpack 73 
J.R. Reid scored 17 points as North Carolina overcame foul trouble to beat N.C. State in Raleigh. 
The Wolfpack tied the score 62-62 on Vinny Del Negro's 3­pointer with 6:25 left, but the Tar Heels surged ahead 72-66 on a layup by Kevin Madden and led the rest of the way. 
The Tar Heels improved to 14-2 overall and 3-1 in the At­lantic Coast Conference. Charles Shackleford scored 26 points for N.C. State, which dropped to 10-4 overall and 2-2 in the conference. 
Score 
continued from page 16 
The Irish led the nation in 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON -Michigan Coach Bill Frieder knows Bob Knight built a reputation with tough defense, so he knew he had to find a special advantage. 
"We changed all of our of­fense," Frieder said Sunday after his seventh-ranked Wol­verines beat Knight's Indiana squad, and stopped the Hoosiers' home winning streak at 29 games, the second-longest in the nation behind Kansas' 55 games. 
"When Bobby has a week to prepare, you know he's going to know all of your plays by name. So we changed our en­tire offense. That's hard to do in one or two days," Frieder said. 
Rumeal Robinson scored Michigan's first 11 points of the second half, keying the rally that lifted the Wolverines to their 14th victory in 16 games and their fifth Big Ten win against one defeat. 
Indiana, the defending na­59-58. Reserve Anthony Todd hit a 10-foot jumper with two seconds left to cap the com­eback. 
"It's just a miracle for us to win this game," UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian said. "With 
seven  minutes  to  play,  our  
defense  went  up  one  notch  
higher.  We  got  into  total  
denial.''  
Brothers  Keith  and  Karl  

James each hit 3-pointers for UNLV during the late rally. 
"They're a big play team and they got the big plays today,'' said Temple Coach John Chaney, whose team fell to 14-1. 
Tarkanian let his team free­lance for the final shot after Temple's Duane Causwell missed a free throw with 17 seconds left and the Owls leading 58-57. 
After Todd hit the shot, Temple called timeout to set up a final play. But a desperation pass slipped through Mark Macon's hands as time ex­pired. 
story beginning on the back page. 
Arizona 86, UCLA 74
tional champions, dropped to 9-field goal percentage (.533) 6 and 1-4. Sean Elliott scored 27 points going in to Sunday's game. The
Wholesale Prices • IBM·~ M Compatibles 
and the top-ranked Wildcats team shot 55 percent in the withstood a late UCLA rally to second half to finish the game
UNLV 59, Temple 58
·IBM™ XT/ATCompatible TURBO 8 & 10Mhz Microcomputers 
post their 18th win in 19 games. at 49 percent. 
• f.OMPLETE systems starting at $560 INCLUDING mon~ors 
No. 8 UNLV, 17-1, held the UCLA, which trailed 56-41 The Spartans were one of the 
• Full li1e of components & accessories (Hard Disks, Mouse..) 
third-ranked Owls scoreless early in the second half, rallied few teams that really chal­over the last four minutes as it to take a 66-64 lead. But the lenged the Irish for rebounds, made up a 58-51 deficit to win Wildcats outscored the Bruins totalling 37 to Notre Dame's 35. 
• 360 day warranty backed by local service department 
·See our system at NO Comp. Ctr. Micro Demo Lab 
MSU could not stop the inside 
COMTALK COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
scoring of the Irish, however, as Heidi Bunek and Sandy Bot­
Passport Photos
271-0444 
ham scored 16 and 14, respec­
#19, 22G, 6910 N. Gumwood-Gran er, IN 
tively. Freshman Krissi Davis
While you Wait 
scored 10 points, and every bucket or rebound she had seemed to spark the Irish or 
******************* 
slow the Spartans.
iC LAURA SHEARON * kinko·s·
* 
"Krissi Davis had a great game," praised McGraw. "She
Great copies. Great people.
* 
really helped us coming off the
18187 State Road 23 Telephone 219 271-0398 
bench."
South Bend, Indiana 46637
is now 

This was the first game for
19 years old! 


the Irish without starting for­
Let's celebrate 

ward Diondra Toney, who un­
the occasion!! 

derwent arthroscopic surgery after suffering a knee injury against DePaul on Wednesday. 
CORPO 
HAPPY B'DAY One of the nation's largest 
McGraw says the Irish can make up the loss of Toney's of­
uniform rental comP-anies
SPROUT 

fense, but will miss her 
defense. "We've got to bear down and 
will be hosting a stuilent open 
house for all students in 
play defense," McGraw said. "She (Toney) was our best de­
ManagementMarketing. 
fensive player. Lisa <Kuhns, Toney's replacement in the starting lineup) can make up
The open house will be on 
her scoring, and the team can take up Lisa's scoring, but
January 26th at the Morris 
defense is the key.'' 
The Irish will return home to
PRESIDENTIAL AND SENATORIAL 
Inn in the Alumni Room from 
battle Marquette on Tuesday at
ELECTIONS 
7-9 .m. 

7:30 in the Joyce ACC. 
FOR TIIOSE INT"ERESTED IN DECLARJNG TIIEIR CANDIDACY FOR TilE OFFICES OF SENATE PRESIDEI'IT AND VlOl PRESIDENT, TI!ESE DATES ARE Of <!REAT IMPORTANCJ;· 
lnfonn:~tional Meeting for Prospcctiv<: Ctndidlucs: TIIURSDAY,January 28 
6:00 pm No<re Dame Room, 2nd floor L.afonune 
MANDATORY Meeting for Dcclar<d Ctndidlucs: 1UESDAY, Fcltnwy 2 
6:00 pm No<re D..,., Room, 2nd floor L.afonune 
Pen lions Required for CandidiCy Due: FRIDAY. Febnwy S 
12:00 noon in &he Snxlent Goven>D'alt Offices, 2nd !loor Lalonune 
CAMPAIGNING BEGINS: 1UESDAY, foebnwy 9 
CAMPAIGNING ENDS: MONDAY,Febnwy IS II midnicht 
EUcnONDAY: 1UESDAY, FEBRUARY 16 Runoff Campail:"inc (If occeswy) Wednc<day, February 17
. 

Ruoofl' Election (it necessary) Thunday, Fcltnwy 18 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE YEAR PART II A GUIDANCE PROGRAM 
by 

EMIL T. HOFMAN DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES 
in the ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 26 6:30P.M., 8:00P.M. 
THURSDAY, JAl'iUARY 28 6:30 P.M., 8:00 P.M. 
(All four programs will lle the same. Every freshman should plan to attend one.) 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 

Monday, Janua~ 25, 1988

page 14 The Observer 

The Observer I Pat Kusek 

Jamere Jackson drives for a big three-point play in Notre Dame's 
upset of Kansas. 
Coach 
continued from page 16 
with the best of them. 
Nine of Robinson's points came in the first half on 4-of-4 shooting from the field. The sophomore had the seemingly­impossible task of guarding Manning in both man-to-man and zone defenses, and the J ayhawk senior managed only 13 shots in the contest. Robin­son was helped in that area, as Gary Voce, Scott Paddock and Mark Stevenson often double­teamed Manning. 
With less than a minute left and Notre Dame leading, 74-72, Robinson made what might have been the biggest defen­sive play of the game. 
Kansas' Otis Livingston pushed the ball upcourt against Notre Dame's David Rivers, but Robinson dashed up from behind Livingston and slapped the ball away from him. Rivers grabbed it, was fouled, and hit two free throws to give Notre Dame its largest lead of the game, 76-72. 
"I saw him bringing it up, and I saw that he had his back turned," Robinson explained. "I just sagged off my man and helped Dave out." 
Robinson made mistakes as well, the most critical coming with 15 seconds left when he wa~ called for an over-the-back foul which sent Manning to the free-throw line with a chance to tie the game. But Manning missed the front end of the one­and-one, and Jayhawk forward Chris Piper stumbled out of bounds with the rebound. 
Robinson, who sat out last year under NCAA Bylaw 5-1­(j), said having support from the stands made Saturday's game special. 
"It's a great feeling to have them come down for a big game like this,'' Robinson said, "especially when it's a big win. I wish my mother could have been here, too." 
Robinson's mother is ill and could not make the trip to Notre Dame, the sophomore said. 
"When I watched the game last week against DePaul," Serotte said of the 77-71 Irish loss in which Robinson scored three points, "I said, 'That's not Keith Robinson.' I called Shu (Notre Dame assistant coach John Shumate) and told him that. Then I made arrange­ments to be here to watch him play this week. 
"He was super. But you have not seen what this kid can do. He's got all the skills, the best attitude, and he'll be great be­cause he's playing for Digger Phelps. When they made Keith Robinson, they threw away the mold." 

Wish yQur friends a Happy Birthday lhrQugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fQr details. 
·r--~-~..-..-·-··-·-·--·-·-·.-...-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
SUMMERJOBS ILarge resort in Glacier National Park. MTIis seeking student employees for the 1988 Isummer season including: waiters, 1waitresses, desk clerks, cooks, salespeople, cocktail servers, office, service station, and maintenance personnel. Monthly salary, including room and board. Interviews will be held on 
campus in Mid-February. 
Write for an application: St. Mary Lodge 
P.O. Box 1617 
Whitefish, MT 59937 

-·-·-·..-.·-·-·-·-·----·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·--·-·­
ND tennis team starts strong, shuts out Broncos in opener 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
First year coach Bob Bayliss didn't know quite what to ex­pect, as his men's tennis team entered its first match of the spring season. 
They had a successful fall season under recently retired head coach Tom Fallon, but that was three months and one head coach ago. 
Many of Bayliss's questions were answered Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, where he saw his Irish handily defeat Western Michigan 9-0. 
"I thought we were a better team going in," said Bayliss. "But I really didn't know. I haven't been through the cycle yet. It'll take me most of this year to learn about the teams we play.'' 
Bryan Kalbas didn't skip a beat in his first match of the spring, downing Western's Karl Krauter 6-2, 7-5. The junior, who played number one throughout the fall, has only ce­mented his reputation as the Irish's best player with Bayliss. 
"He's earned that spot," said Bayliss. "He hasn't lost a chal­lenge match yet. He's an excel­lent player." 
A pair of seniors were the keys to the shutout for Notre Dame. Sean O'Brien, who "hasn't played a whole lot of singles", and Paul Daggs, who was hurt by the flu, each came up with big performances to seal the victory. 
Senior Dan Walsh had a very busy afternoon. In his singles match, he spotted Jerry McKim three points in the first set before winning 12 of the next 13 points for a 6-4, 6-0 vic­tory. He then teamed with Daggs in the most exciting doubles match of the afternoon, a 4-6, 6-4, 7-6 (9-7) heart­stopper. 
Bayliss' learning experience will continue next weekend, as the Irish (now 1-0 l play host to two teams who beat Notre Dame last year, Northern and Southern Illinois. 
"A lot of people don't think I'm a very smart scheduler," said Bayliss. "But I want to play as tough a schedule as pos­sible." 

Belles take 2nd in tournament 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team placed second this weekend in a four-team tourn­ament held at Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles' record now stands at 6-6. 
Other teams in the competi­tion were Cedarville, Marian 
and  the  University  of  Mic­ 
higan.  •  
In  the  first  game,  Saint  

Mary's played Cedarville. The Belles got into foul trouble ear­ly, but took a 7-0 lead. Cedar­ville rallied to tie up the game with a score of 14-14. The score remained close throught the first half, but then Cedarville pulled ahead for a 28-26 lead. 
The second half resembled the first with neither team gaining a significant lead. Saint Mary's obtained control with six minutes remaining and dominated the tempo for the rest of the game for a 52-49 victory. 
Tammye Radke led Saint Mary's with 18 points. 
In the championship game, against Marian College, the Belles ran into trouble from the start. Marian built a 12-8 lead early in the game, but the Belles were able to close it within one at 18-17. Saint Mary's, however, was unable to keep up with the quick pace clock, however, and were and Marian rallied to take a 25-defeated 69-59. 19 lead at the half. Once again, Tammye Radke 
Saint Mary's created trouble was the leading scorer with 20 for themselves by only shooting points, followed by her sister 9-for-41 in the first half. In the Julie with 12. second half, Marian continued to stretch their lead until Saint "The girls played defense ex­Mary's changed to a full-court, tremely well but we need to im­man to man press and rallied prove on our shooting to bring the score to 57-54 with percentage, " said Wood, "We two minutes remaining. The came back strong but couldn't Belles were unable to beat the get over the hill to win it." 

(. \I' 1· S.·\ M <i .\<i I I< l 
2II) -2_\ l) -(, (! .q 
-=--~-....ir-iiL' .... 
_, ,__ ..
-....... ........--111'!= ,. >
::::::::::::::--::·~--;;;---~~---~ 
~-~~=---= ?"
= 

Leadership EJcrellmce Starts Here 

A SUMMER JOB BRIEF: 
• 
Make the trans1hon into the business world selling yellow page advertising lor your campus telephone directory or lor other campus d1rectones nationwide 

• 
Gam valuable experience m sales. marketing. advertising. and public relations 

• 
Earn an average ol :3100 m 10 weeks 

• 
Tram WJth 200 other college students workmg lor Umverstty Directones 


Sign Up For On-Campus InteMews By 
January 29th 

Career & Placement SelVlces Lower Level Hesburgh Library 
~University Directories 


Monday, Janua~ 25, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
·Campus . 
••••••....••.....•.•.•..••...•••.•.•••••••....•.........\ 
: MOVIES THIS WEEK • e EVIL DEAD. HOLLYWOOD SHUFFLE • : Wed. & Thurs. 8 -10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 8 -10 p.m. : 
Monday 
12 p.m. -Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture "Rethinking the Establishment Clause--Opening the Schoolhouse Door to Value-Based Dis­cussion," by the Honorable William Brevard Hand, Chief Judge, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Alabama. Room 220, Law School Courtroom 4:15p.m.-Medieval Institute Lecture "Latin School Poetry: Literary Education and the Secularization of Asceticism in the Later Middle Ages," by Professor John Fleming, English Department, Princeton University. Room 715 Library 4:30p.m.-Reilly Lecture in Chemistry "The New 'Old Quantum Theory'"by Dr. 
Eric Heller, University of Washington, Seattle. Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 6:30p.m.-Career and Placement Services presentation "Obtaining a Summer Internship" by Paul Reynolds, associate director of Career and Placement Ser­vices. Room 124 Hayes-Healy Center 6:30p.m.-Amnesty International meeting. Center for Social Concerns 7 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series I "The Searehers," 1956, directed by .John Ford, USA. Annenberg Auditorium 
9:15 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series II "Gimme Shelter," 1970, directed by David Maysles, Albery Maysles, and Charlotte Zwerin, USA. Annenberg 
Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Grilled Pastrami and Swiss Sandwich Veal Parmigiana Garlic Baked Chicken 
Cheese Souffle 

Comics 
Bloom County 
I /?1/NNO. I THINK (;Of<tMCH£.
/j A WOlF ,,./'\....) 
IN ~HEeP S ,__/ 
~~· ~') 
f. \ '-­
~,(iY~) .')
/ ~
I ) ,;:': ~ 
C·-·. ..,
. ,,., 
;. ."'... 
.....: ""~--_. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
A.~G"\-1, L ~'t ££UEVE WE 'Nt.RE AS5\G~£D mDO A. RE~I<T l't>SE"rnER . 

' 
) ! 
~ 
' 

· 
Berke Breathed 
IRREMRl?t.ESfJ, IM WORRIEf? 
·uorHtN&:· 


Saint Mary's 
Lasagna 
Rottini with Clam or 
Marinara Sauce 
Fettucini Alfredo 
Deli Bar 

Don't drink and drive' 
A public serv1ce message from Tre Observer 
~U. l CAN Sr>.:~ \S '{O\J'D BEITER DO AGREAT JOB~ I Dat'\'t WP.NT 10 FLUNK JUS\ BKA\Jst. t WA.S A.§IG~tll ~ 
tx:n\JS RJR f>. Pt>.RH\ER. 
\ 
ACROSS 1 Stanch 
, 5 Pup 10 Marathon 14 Biblical weed 15 VItriolic one 16 Annexes 17 Enrage 19 Ooze 20 Taft's 
successor 21 Sate 23 Tilting 26 Among 27 Need 30 Baas 34 A Hackman 
35  Baldwin  for  
one  
37  Chilly  

38 Formicary 
resident 39 Demanded 41 -out (make 
do) 42 "Le Coq -" 43 Operatic voice 44 Snlcker-­45 "Saws wood" 47 Jubilant 50 Bat material 51 US president 52 Volatile 
solvent 56 Shoddy 60 Bread spread 61 Unrestrained 
joy 64 Storyteller 65 Shankar's 
Instrument 66 Wall 67 Drinks like 
Fldo 68 Br. guns 69 Fast jets 
DOWN 1 Ragout 2 Hack 3 Epochal 4 Memo 5 "-the 
course of human events a." 
6 Port: abbr. 
17 
t=-+--+--+---i-t-­
•
...__.....__........____.__ 
. ~988 Tnbune Media Services. Inc All R1ghts Reserved 
01125188 
7 Gr. vowel 8 Permits 9 Constitution 
beginning 10 Live 11 Tavern orders 12 Musical 
symbol 13 Spot 18 Vaulting aid 22 Laid floor 
squares 24 Lots 
25  Readied  for  
printing  
27  Mild oaths  
28  Inert gas  

29 Musical 


beginning  01/25/88  
31  Stadium  48 Stomach woes  57 Adam's  
32  Reserved  49 Annealing  grandson  
33  Saccharine  oven  58  Kind of  
36 Agent  52  Cotton pod  jazz  
39 Corpulent  53 Charles  59  Desires  
40  Hasty action  Lamb  62 Shoshonean  
44  Rills  54  Kind of tide  tribesman  
46 Barber tools  55  Door sign  63  Prohibition  
Far Side  Gary Larson  


When car chasers dream 

: Cushing Auditorium : : $2.00 : • Sponsored by SUB • 
Sports
page 16 Monday, Janua~ 25, 1988 
Irish upset 16th-ranked Jayhawks 80-76 
NO gamble contains KU 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame picked up the dice Sat­urday against 16th-ranked Kansas, rolled them, and came up with sevens. 
By playing a sagging zone defense around the Jayhawks Danny Manning, the Irish gambled that the other Kansas players wouldn't be able to hit from 
• 
outside consistently. The gamble payed off in an 80-76 upset. 
Manning scored 22 points, but took only 13 shots and made nine. His team couldn't pick up the slack. Chris Piper, normally a 68 percent shooter from the floor hit on only two-of-eight attempts. 
"To hold Manning to 13 shots was a great job by Gary Voce, Scott Paddock and Mark Stevenson," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "We knew the things we had to do to beat Kansas. Manning is best working working from half-court, and we did a great job hold­ing him to a few shots." 
And while Kansas couldn't get the ball to Manning, the Irish made certain that David Rivers had it in crunchtime. Rivers simply took the game over when it was on the line. He scored a game­high 29 points, including six-straight free throws in the final minute of the game to ice it. For the game, he shot a near-perfect 14-of-15, as he penetrated the lane and looked to kick the ball out or find a way to score. 
"I don't see myself missing a free throw," Rivers, who has made 99-of-116 
David Rivers led Notre Dame past 16th­ranked Kansas Saturday. Dennis Cor­see RIVERS, page 11 
left and Marty 

rigan has the story at 

ND women survive 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
EAST LANSING, Mich.-The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team spent 39 minutes and and 25 seconds playing defense as tough as it can be played yesterday. Not only were those last 35 seconds bad for anyone with a weak heart, but they al­most cost the Irish the game. 
Notre Dame held Michigan State to .304 shooting for the game and held Spartan scoring leader Kim Archer to seven points, eight below her season average. 
But in those closing seconds, luck, tenacity and the referees put the excitement back in the game. Trailing 57-48 with 35 seconds to go, the Spartans em­barked on a comeback. Taraisa Wills hit a 17-foot jumper to cut the lead to seven, and after the Irish missed a free throw, MSU's Carlotta Taylor hit a three-point bomb from the top of the key. Not only was that the first three-pointer of the season for the Spartans, but Taylor was fouled. She com­pleted the four-point play to make the score 57-52. 
Irish forward Mary Gavin 

ND sweeps Bison, despite subpar play 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team raised its record to an im­pressive 17-2-2 after a weekend sweep of North Dakota State this weekend at the JACC. 
But the play of the Irish was somewhat less than impressive against the Bison, a club team which has won the national club hockey championship three years in a row. Irish Head Coach Ric Schafer knows that his squad must pick up its level of play for its next two series against Kent State and Air Force. 
"I would say we played pretty average," said Schafer, in his debut season as the Irish mentor. "I'd give our effort about a C or a B-. It's tough because I saw the guys play about as good as I think they can last weekend at Army and anything less than that appears to be a letdown to me. But I can't expect that kind of inten­sity every time we take the ice." 
Amazingly, Notre Dame won Friday night's contest only 6-3 while outshooting the Bison 87­
20. Although the Irish came away with the win, Schafer was concerned about the shooting inaccuracy. 
"You could say we kept the pressure on," said Schafer, "but we really were not accu­rate at all. I mean, their goalie 
see SWEEEP, page 10 

Former coach helps Robinson 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The words were shocking, but they seemed to work. 
"You're better than Danny Man­ning," Keith Robinson's former high school coach Art Serotte told the 6-9 Robinson before Notre Dame's 80-76 up­set of 16th-ranked Kansas on Saturday. 
Robinson scored 10 points, grabbed a game-high 10 rebounds and made a cru­cial steal in the final minute of what Irish coach Digger Phelps agreed was the sophomore's best game for Notre Dame. 
"I told him that I didn't come 5oo miles to see him lose," said Serotte, who drove into South Bend from Buf­falo, where he coached Robinson at Grover Cleveland High School. Robin­son's father and 15-year-old brother also made the trip. 
"I told him that I thought he was bet­ter than Danny Manning," Serotte added. "From what I saw today, he'll be above and beyond (Manning l. He can do everything, and his attitude is fantastic." 
Manning, who averages more than 23 points a game and is considered by many the favorite for Player of the Year honors, notched 22 points for the Jayhawks on Saturday. And although Serotte's comparison might be a bit premature, Robinson showed a sellout crowd at the Joyce ACC and a national­
Strasen details Keith Robinson's contri­television audience that he can play bution at right. 
see COACH, page 14 

late scare, top Mich. State 
was called for a charging foul as she tried to move up the court. Cynthia Lyons launched another three-point bucket for the Spartans, and the Irish lead was down to two. 
Fortunately for the Irish, the clock finally wound down before . the Spartans could throw another prayer at the basket. The final score was 57­55, and despite the score, Irish head coach Muffet McGraw was pleased with the play of her squad. 
"I thought we did a good job with our poise, we were calm despite some adversity," McGraw said. "The crowd was loud, the officiating was suspect at the end. We held our composure and won a close game, which is something we've been wanting to do all year." 

The Irish led 28-24 at the half, as both teams were playing tight defense. The Irish shot 44 percent in the half and held the Spartans to 29 percent. 
MSU took a brief lead early in the second half, but the Irish regained the lead and then went on a ten-point run to go ahead 50-39. The Irish defense took over, and the Spartans did 
Bruce Guay and the Notre Dame hockey team swept a weekend series from North Dakota State. 
not make another field goal for over five minutes. Then the comeback began. 
"We made a spurt in the second half, and we got up nine," McGraw said. "We've talked about that, we have to make a run. We did exactly what we wanted to do on of­fense, and we held them on defense. 
"We didn't shoot well, like we've done all year; 28-24, that may be our lowest halftime total in a while. I'd like to see us score more." 
see SCORE, page 13 






