No place like Dome I :Q:J
IACCENT: Summer Movie Review 
Mostly sunny Wednesday. ~ ,,,1 
High around 80. Clear Wed­nesday night. Low around 55. 
I : 
Sunny Thursday. High in the I
IVIEWPOINT: Doyle-Paese get to work 
lower 80s. ~ 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 1988VOL. XXII, NO. 2 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Administration changes alcohol policy 
Revisions result from task Doyle offersforce recommendations reaction to 
By REGIS COCCIA only one all hall formal each News Editor 
semester. 
new policy
In a letter to student govern­After more than a year of ment, student leaders and hall 
ByKENDRA MORRILLreviewing the recommen­staffs, Malloy highlighted the 
Assistant News Editor
dations of students and task policy's revisions: force members, the University •At least 70 percent of the hall's The University administra­has issued a new alcohol policy student residents must pur­tion "could've done it better"barring alcohol at hall formals. chase tickets or bids for the for­when implementing the 1988"Of all the things that have mal to take place. 
modified version of the 1984been decided in Notre Dame's •No University or hall funds, University alcohol policy, ac­history, there's probably been or funds collected from the sale cording to Student Body Vice more student involvement and of bids may be used to purchase President Mike Paese. 
input in this policy," said Uni­alcohol. Further, the hall shall "It was not made clear ex­versity President Father Ed­not distribute or supply alcohol actly what the changes are,"ward Malloy. "One of the alter­in any public or private area. 
said Paese. "It seems it's leftnatives was going dry." •The hall must provide funds people confused about whatThe new policy was finalized for food and non-alcoholic (the new policy) means andduring a five-day meeting of 12 beverages. 
how it's being implemented." 
University officers in July at a "The all hall formal will be The changes in the alcoholUniversity-owned research reviewed by the Office of policy were made in responsecenter in Land O'Lakes, Wise., Residence Life at the end of the to the recommendations of lastMalloy said. 1989-90 academic year with the year's task force on WholeThe Task Force on Whole goal of recommending further Health and Use and Abuse ofHealth and the Use and Abuse policy changes not to exclude Alcohol.
of Alcohol made its report on the termination of these But "not that many changes" March 15, after a yearlong events," Malloy wrote. 
have been made, said Tomstudy. Reaction to the report The revised policy also bars Doyle, student governmentwas solicited by various publications such as The Ob­president. "A lot of recommen­campus groups and given server from printing advertise­dations were made (by the task serious consideration during ments promoting alcohol or force); only a few were imple­the Land O'Lakes meetings, alcohol-centered events. 
mented," Doyle said. 
Malloy said. 
Doyle also said he felt stu­The recent nationalization of "I think this is a moderate dent response to the task force the 21 drinking age indicates policy that requires some reports, given to the adminis­the need to confront the prob­degree of compromise. It's aw­tration in the form of a surveylem of alcohol abuse, he said. fully hard to make everybody of students, was definitely con­
Welcome back
"Alcohol use and abuse is a na­happy. I'm sure this will be 
sidered by University officerstional reality. Surely every uni­reviewed and changed," Mal­This scene from Walsh Hall will probably last until Saturday, when all when modifying the policy.
versity in the country has to loy said. 
dorm construction is supposed to be finished. For now, it's proof that 
face that reality," Malloy said. "We've tried to avoid ex­see DOYLE, page 5
Notre Dame is a moving experience for many.
"Obviously the result of that tremes and find a middle change in the law is going to be route," he said. "I feel confi­unpopular with people under dent we can maintain a high­
SMC gets new residence director
21," he said. "I'm hopeful quality social life at the same we're going to get cooperation time we come to grips with the and that we're going to struggle problem of the abuse of alco­By KRISTINE KRUCZEK nication among all involved," like I have a routine." to find a solution to alcohol 
hol." Staff Reporter she said. VanBebber, of Greenville,abuse." Implementation of the VanBebber, 28, said she was Ohio, is a 1984 graduate of Ohio One of the policy's most policy, which is effective im­A new face in Saint Mary's attracted by Saint Mary's State University with a Master noticeable revisions concerns mediately, rests with the Of­Department of Residence Life smaller community. "Because of Arts degree in Student Per­
SYR (Screw Your Roommate) 
fices of Student Affairs and the and Housing is bringing a fresh Saint Mary's is a smaller col­sonnel Work.
dances, Malloy said. Based on Provost, Malloy said. Father perspective to residence life, lege, there is much more inter­As coordinator of instructionthe task force recommen­see TRADE, page 8 said Sister Karol Jackowski, action among all the people and training at Maryland, Van­dations, dorms are permitted 
dean of student affairs. who make up the community," Bebber was responsible for all On July 21, Jackowski an­she said. in-service training for full-time nounced the appointment of ''At a large university such staff members. 
Lissa VanBebber as the direc­as Maryland, I was dealing tor of Residence Life and strictly with one aspect of res­VanBebber's experience in­Housing. ident life. As director of resi­cludes teaching courses in 
Reagan endorses 
VanBebber was the coordin­dent life at Saint Mary's, I have group dynanmics and leader­ator of Instruction and Train­the opportunity to work with ship, resident assistant train­ing in the Department of Resi­department like Studrent M­ing and communication skills. Associated Press president touted the economic dent Life at the University of fairs and make solid deci­While at Maryland, VanBeb­advances of his term and Maryland--College Park. sions," VanBebber said. ber designed instructional pro­
IRVINE, Calif.-President proclaimed Bush the man to She replaces Pat Rissmeyer, "I also have a lot to say to grams for moral development. Reagan wooed blue-collar and carry his legacy forward. who left in July to become dean women of Saint Mary's," she She also developed workshops conservative votes for Vice He did not mention the record of students at Canisius college added. "Hopefully my experi­on sexual miscommunication President George Bush on $170 billion trade deficit in 1987 in Buffalo, N.Y. ences on the professional and and date rape. Tuesday, signing a landmark that helped propel this version "Because of her vast expo­personal levels can help to Her many hats at Maryland trade bill and deriding the of the measure through sure at the University of diversify both our p_rograms included training police offi­Democratic presidential ticket Congress, nor its primary spon­Maryland, Lissa brings a whole and staff members."· cers in communication skills as "third-stringers" playing a sor, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of different perspective to the The upcoming year is one of and tutoring the men's varsity 
"curveball campaign." Texas, who is paired with Dem­small community of Saint "newness" for the department, basketball team. 
In two Southern California ocratic presidential candidate Mary's," said Jackowski. VanBebber said. "We have "Lissa's new ideas and en­appearances, a bill signing cer­Michael Dukakis against Bush "In our smaller community, three new hall directors. In ad­ergy add a whole different per­emony on a pier in Long Beach and Quayle. we have a more proactive than dition, we have 35 first year spective to residence life," 
and a GOP fundraiser in con­reactive situation merely be­resident assistants. I'm looking Jackowski said. "She's just an 
landmark trade bill 
see POLICY, page 8
servative Orange County, the cause there is greater commu-forward to the day when I feel absolute delight." 
-------------~-~-~--------------------------~-~ 
page 2 The Observer VVednesday, August24, 1988 
IN BRIEF 
Gov. Mario Cuomo said Tuesday that the film "The Last Temptation of Christ" is offensive and he wouldn't see it. But Cuomo, a Roman Catholic, said producers had a right to make the film. "I don't see the point of my seeing it," Cuomo said in an interview with Albany public radio station WAMC. "The idea of profaning the Christ figure by showing him to be as human as the rest of us and leering at a woman and desiring her sexually is some­thing that I find offensive to good taste." The film, which opened in theaters earlier this month, includes a scene in which a crucified Jesus Christ hallucinates that he has married Mary Magdalene. Roman Catholic bishops have urged the country's 53 million Catholics to boycott the film. Other religious groups have demonstrated against it. -Associated Press 
Princess Beatrice is the name of the newest Princess of York. Buckingham Palace yesterday announced the baby's name and released the first official pictures of the baby, which were taken by her father, Prince Andrew. Andrew, who is based on HMS Edinburgh, flew to London from Singapore on Aug. 7 for the birth. Princess Beatrice was born Aug. 8, 1988, at 8:18p.m., considered by Chinese astrologers one of the luckiest moments of the century because of all the eights. The original proposed name, Annabel, was rejected by Queen Elizabeth. 
The St. Joseph River was contaminated yesterday when wind blew an undetermined amount of powdery sub­stance used to manufacture plastics into the river from an overfilled storage silo, a plastics company said Tues­day. The substance, polyvinyl chloride, is neither toxic nor hazardous, said a spokesman for Uniroyal Plastics Inc. Firefighters sprayed water onto the floating powder in an effort to cause it to sink to the riverbed, where it would pose no danger, said city Fire Chief Ronald Watson. The silo was overfilled by a truck driver, said company spokesman David Barnhart. "It's the first time we've had to handle anything like this in the river," said Watson. "Luckily, it is one that is not bad." The. plant produces semi-finished products including synthetic rubber, seals and adhesives. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
The On the Grass Classic will be sponsored by Fisher Hall this weekend. The Classic is a two-person volleyball tournament and will be limited to 24 teams. The proceeds from the tournament will be donated to Andre House of Hospitality. For information, contact Mike Shimota at 283-1987. -The Observer The Bicycle Club will have a group ride to the beach on Saturday. All levels of experience are welcomed. The round trip distance is 75 miles. For more information call Robert Kobayashi at 283-3807. -The Observer Photographers are wanted for the yearbook. Interested parties must attend a workshop on Saturday. For sign-ups and additional information, see the Office of Student Activities on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer The Graduate Student Union will offer a workshop on University Services today from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. A reception will follow. -The Observer An orientation coffeehouse will be held today for graduate students from 5 to 7 p.m. at Wilson Commons. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
-Ihe-Obs.-e~~er-­~­-----&.-=-Y~ --­Design Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alison Cocks Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee Design Assistant .. .. .. .. Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Copy Editor. Cindy Broderick Typesetters ....... ........... Mark Ridgeway Viewpoint Layout. ........ Annete Rowland ...............................Paul Jackson Accent Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy News Editor... Sara Marley Typist ................................. Jim Winkler Copy Editor........ .. ... Cindy Broderick ND Day Editor .... .. ... Jim Winkler TM O!Menn-(USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TM Oblervn-is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Oble"n-, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. . TM O!Mener is a member of TM A.uodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

INSIDE COLUMN 
Work and play at the paper all day 
The campus newspaper. It's a big part of any 
university, providing a forum and medium for 
the students, faculty, and administrators. Here 
at Notre Dame, The Observer is beginning its 
22nd year of operation serving the Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's community. 
It is a newspaper and an operation that we 
are very proud of and we take our responsibility 
very seriously. In fact, for some of us, it 
replaces academics as our number one priority. The day begins at 8 a.m. when Shirley Grauel, 
our office manager, opens the doors. Shirley is 
quite possibly The Observer's greatest asset. 
She takes care of much of our billing, runs our 
entire subscription department, takes all clas­
sified and much of our display advertising and 
gives experienced advice. 
Around 10:00 the day's paper arrives from 
the printer in Milford, Indiana. (Milford is 
about an hour's drive from campus.) We have 
a campus circulation of 10,000 and it usually 
takes an hour-and-a half to distribute all the 
issues at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Meanwhile, people start to roll into the office 
between classes. The news editors begin to as­
sign campus stories to our staff reporters, who 
range from freshmen to seniors. The news 
editors work in conjunction with our 
Mary's office. 
production personnel begin to cut paste the 
The Viewpoint department editor comes in to copy onto the flats. While this commences, news 
check what mail has been sent for P.O. Box Q and sports reporters type their stories in and 
letters to the editor. After the selection process copy editors prepare the stories for typesetting. 
(which is detailed in the policy seen on page 10 This is when chaos can result with people run­
of today's issue), he gives them to a typist who ning around trying to hit their deadlines. 
types the columns and letters into our Alpha-By 10 p.m. most of the stories have been 
Micro word processing system. edited and page design has taken shape. That's 
(As the afternoon rolls on, the sports and Accent when the real work begins for our production 
departments begin to assign and write stories department which works with the news and 
while our advertising department sells display sports night editors to make the pages look as 
advertising to campus, local, and national ad-good as possible. Our graphic arts department 
vertising. At2 p.m., the Managing Editor deter-works to give the paper an artistic look and the 
mines how many ads we have and how many photography department examines the photos 
pages the newspaper will be. This is where the to determine which will be developed and used 
business side of our operation takes place. for publication. 
Next, ad design begins to typeset and put the If everything goes "smoothly," we can get ads on our flats. The ads are the first items to finished by 2 a.m. If not, which happens a lot be placed on the page and eventually determine of the time at even the most professional the style and look of the newspaper. newspapers, it can be a lot later. 
Our classifieds close at 3 p.m. and that's the But the real point of this column is not how deadline to get in your notes to your friends or much work it is to produce a daily newspaper, even tell stories about last weekend's dates. but how much fun and what a great learning This is the time when production really begins experience it is to put it together. At a school to pick up. Viewpoint and Accent copy-editors with no "journalism" program, it's a great way run carefully through the copy to check for er-to learn how a newspaper operates. rors in spelling and style. If you're interested in working for us, look 
After dinner, assistant editors arrive to for our table at Student Activities Night on Au­design the page and write headlines and cut-gust 30 or stop by our office on the third floor lines. The actual copy begins to be typeset and of La Fortune. You may just like what you see. 

ncounter 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN: * September 16-18, 1988 November 11-13, 1988 February 3-5, 1989 March 31-April 2, 1989 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office (Badin Hall) 239-5242 OFFICE OF 

0MPUS
COST: $15.00 
MINISTRY 
Wednesday, August 24, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Freshman enters ND after full recovery 
By REGIS COCCIA 
easy for Sauceda. She had 
News Editor 
missed six weeks of high school.
It's the start of a new school "People thought I was bald,year and all's well for Notre 
they thought I was hit by aDame freshman Melissa crane," said Sauceda, laughing Sauceda, who was injured this as she added many kids tugged spring during the An Tostal at her hair to she if she wore a
Keg Toss. 
wig.
Sauceda spent a long sum­The University communitymer recovering in her native 
supported Sauceda throughout Texas. But now she's ready for her hospital stay, said Father
her first year here. 
Andre Leveille, director ofWhen she arrived last Campus Ministry. 
Thursday, Sauceda said she "I was walking around every couldn't wait for for school to . The Observer I Rob Re99.yich day and people were askingbegin. "I feel great. I can't wait 
From left: Joseph, Viola, and Melissa Sauceda; Father Andre Leveille 
me, 'How is she?"' he said.
for football games to start." 
Sauceda received dozens of 
The 18-year-old Weslaco, received a heroine's welcome. "We didn't want her to feel gifts and flowers from Texas youth was visiting Friends and well-wishers she had to go to Notre Dame, residence halls. Both students campus when she was acciden-decorated the town with yellow after the accident. But she said and administrators visited her. 
tally hit in the head with a keg. ribbons, flowers and balloons. she wanted to," said Viola "I'm just so proud of Notre She had already been accepted Sauceda said she decided to Sauceda, Melissa's mother. Dame, like I am whenever 
to the University. b t "It's a very friendly place. I something like this happens,"After a two-week hospital attend Notre Dame a ou ..a feel confident she'll be fine Leveille said. "People pulling stay at St. Joseph's Medical ~eek after s~e g?t home. I 
hke the fnendhness here. here." together in time of need is whatCenter, Sauceda went home · · " h 'd Adjusting to family and the spirit of this place is all
with her parents, where she Everyone IS so mce, s e sat . 
friends at home again wasn't about." 
CARPET REMHAHT SALE
The Observer 
10 °/o OFF 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Carpet & Tile De ot 
Typists 
Mon. thru Sat. 
10:00 to 5:30 
402 South Ironwood 
For further Information contact 
Mishawaka, Ind. 
Jim Winkler 
Ph. 259-5630 
at The Obs r (239-5303) 


Miners lock selves up in protest 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland-Some workers ended their strikes Tuesday, but 125 miners bar­ricaded themselves in an un­derground shaft and vowed to stay until they won higher pay and recognition of the banned Solidarity trade union. 
The government said it wouldn't negotiate "under the 'pistol' of a strike," and took measures to end Poland's worst wave of labor unrest since the 1981 imposition of martial law. 
Government spokesman Jerzy Urban said at least 49 people have been detained by police nationwide in con­nection with the strikes, which began Aug. 16 and at their height affected about 100,000 workers at 20 sites. 
On Monday night, Interior Minister Czeslaw Kiszczak said troops would be sent to secure major industrial plants to prevent anarchy, although none were in evidence at the plants Tues­day. An 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. cur­few was imposed in Jastrzebie in Katowice Prov­ince, the site of many of the mine strikes. 
Four columns of army and police vehicles left Krakow for Katowice, witnesses said. Two of the convoys con­sisted of more than 70 vehicles. 


The Tl-65 Technical Analyst™Offers all the built-in functions of the 11-60, plus a stopwatch I timer, eight physical con­stants, decision program­ming (if... then) capabilities and 100 programming steps for repetitive calculations. 
The Tl-60 Advanced 
Scientific Features such built­in functions as hexadecimal I octal coversions, integration using Simpson's rule, statistics (including linear regression), trend line analysis and metric to The Tl-95 PROCALC™ Our most powerful, top-of-the-line English conversions. There are advanced scientific features BK RAM and a full range ofscientific, also 84 programming steps for mathematical and statistical functions. It uses redefinable function . repetitive calculations. keys to provide easy access to 200 + functions with menu-like win-· 
dows and has a flexible file management system to conveniently store programs and data. The 11-95 offers optional accessories such 
as Solid State Software Th1 canridges for Mathematics, Statistics, and Chemical Engineering, and 8K Constant Memory1M cartridge, a portable printer and a cassette interface. 
TI designed its advanced Tl's advanced scientific calcula­keys and simple keyboard layouts. scientific calculators to tors-the TI-60, TI-65 and the This helps you concentrate on real TI-95 PROCALC-were designed problem solving, instead of solving 
help cut science and 
with all the right scientific the mysteries of a complex 
engineering problems 
mafhematical and statistical func-'*' calculator. down to size. tions you'll need to get ahead in With all the demands your ad­It takes more than an ordinary school and in your career. vanced courses place on you, you calculator to help make an extra­These powerful calculators were need the help of an advanced 
TEXAS ..
ordinary future scientist or carefully created to be easy to use. scientific calculator from TI. engineer. They feature large, color-coded Copvri~ht © 1988 TI INSTRUMENTS 
TM Trademark ofTnaslnsrrumen!5lncorporatt"d 
IH0007 

-~---~-----------------------------------------------~----------~ 
Wednesday, August 24, 1988
page4 The Observer 

TIME TO HIT THE BOOKS ... 
Back to those hallowed halls and ''burning the midnight oil". Back to trying to cram in a meal before that big test. But, alas, help is on the way in the form of two new cour­ses on campus. DOMINO'S PIZZA presents the perfect way to fuel your stomach while you feed your mind ... "PIZZA-401" and "PIZZA-501 ". 
Save time with Domino's Pizza~R~ FREE DELIVERY, and save BIG BUCKS with PIZZA -401 and PIZZA -501. 
NOTRE DAME CALL 277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 

!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!
-· 
·­
-· 
·­

-· -· Subject: Pizza Enjoyment ·­
-· ·­
-· ·­
-· ·­


-· PIZZA-401
-· 
-· 
-· 
-· -· Twelve inches of the best pizza you've-· 
-· ever tasted topped with cheese and
-· 
-· 
-· pepperoni ... delivered to your door
-· 
-· -· -· piping hot for ...-· 
-· 

® 
-· 
-· 
-· Only $4.01 (plus tax)
-· 
-·
-· 
-· 
-· 
Valid at 1835 South Bend Ave. store ONLY. 
-·
-· 
::-· Offers valid through semester. 'IP_U#i;A/ :: Expires December 31, 1988. ~~,,AA--~~ . 
:: No coupons necessary with these f7V" :: special offers. Not valid with anyEE other coupons or discounts. 
-· 
-· 
• 
·­

PIZZA-501 ·­·­
·­
An Extra Thick Domino's Pizza crust is ·­·­
·­
topped with cheese and your choice of ·­·­
·­
any two toppings. This course, with ·­·­·­electives, is ... ·­·­
·­
·­
·­
·­
·­
Only $5•01(plus tax) ·­·­
·­
·­
·­
This semester save BIG with ·­·­
Domino's Pizza! :: ·-
Umited delivery area :: 
· :: 
Our drivers carry less than $20.0. :: ©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc. EE 
·­
·­
iiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilri 


Wednesday, August 24, 1988 
The Observer 

Saint Mary's Security cracks down on illegal parking 
By MIMI TUOHY forced to use them that often, in front of each residence hall. Assistant Saint Mary's Editor but if the need arises, we will It is now unlawful to park in boot cars that are parked in­front of any dorm except 
Parking illegally at Saint correctly," Chlebek said. Augusta. Students previously Mary's may result in more Saint Mary's Security will were permitted to park up to than just a ticket, said Director also strongly enforce the no 30 minutes. of Security Richard Chlebek. parking regulation in the ser­Students must now obtain a 
The College recently pur­vice lane on Madeleva Hall's loading1.mloading pass from 
chased four vehicle restraining east side, Chlebek said. security when necessary. devices, also known as "Den­"Last year, this lane turned "Over the past few years, the ver boots," which can be used into a parking lot. It's not for total abuse governing the safe by security to punish parking the use of faculty, staff or stu­movement on campus has in­offenders. dents," he said. "Emergency creased. Therefore, we had to 
When clamped to a rear tire vehicles are the only exception, take action to return this to a and locked in place, the boots all others will be towed at the safe community." Chlebek make moving the vehicle owner's expense." said. impossible. Security has also devised 
"Hopefully we won't be new rules concerning parking 

Doyle 
continued from page 1 
"(The modified alcohol policy) is not ideally what stu­dents wanted," said Doyle, "but I .want to emphasize that student response was consid­ered ... It's clear that the rea­son SYRs even remained was the student response to the
The Observer 
reports."The independent student newspaper serving Notre Limiting all-hall semi-formal Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for dances, or SYRs, to one per se­the following position: mester per hall is one of the major changes to the policy. In addition, no alcohol may be provided by the hall or permit­
Copy Editors ted outside of private rooms at these gatherings--also a new provision. 
"We all enjoyed SYRs in their past form, but we have to 
For further information contact 
realize we haven't lost the SYR completely," said Doyle. "The
Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin 
complexion will change, but at The Observer (239-5303) the idea of an all-hall gathering is still a reality." 
Welcome Back Students!! 
To learn more about THE HOLY CROSS FATHERS AND BROTHERS 

Stop by and visit our display 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT '88 TUESDAY, AUG. 30th 7-10 pm STEPAN CENTER 
or contact 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocations Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 239-6385 
University ~ .... ~r• 

How to start your law career Defore you start law school. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nation-wide! And candidates who score over 40 on the LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 125 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
IKAPLAN 
DON'T COMPETE WITH 
A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
CLASS STARTING NOW! 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 [. South Rend Ave. 
The revised policy will have a "major effect on people plan­ning social events in dorms," said Doyle, requiring more creativity in planning the ac­tivities. 
The University policy toward tailgaters has not been ad­dressed or changed at all, said Doyle and Paese. However, Doyle said he felt "greater at­tention will be placed on alco­hol throughout the campus, tailgaters included." 
The modified alcohol policy deals not only with students, said Doyle, but also with fac­ulty, staff, and alumni--the Notre Dame community as a whole. 
"Now is not the time to look at what we don't have," said Doyle. "It is a time to look at what we have and make the best of what we do have." 
The Observer· 
VVednesday, August24, 1988
page6 The Observer 

TEAR OUT THESE COUPONS. TEAR DOWN TO PEACHES. THE ONLY MUSIC AND VIDEO STORE YOU'LL EVER NEED! 
ISUPER COUPON #11 lsUPER COUPON #21 ISUPER COUPON #31
~-----~~-----~~-----~ 
1 ANY 11 ANY 1 1 MAXELL XUI 90 1
I CASSEll EOR LP I I COMPAa DISC I I AUDIO TAPE I 
I 
99 II 1.99II $1.79 I 
Present this coupon and receive any LP or Present this coupon and receive any single album Per Tape In 10-Pack. TotallO-Pack Price $17.90.1 I I cassette (regularly priced up to $9.99) for $5.99. I I compact disc (regularly priced up to $16.99) for I I Present this coupon and receive the Maxell XLII I This coupon not valid with other offers. Offer $11.99. This coupon not valid with other offers. 90 Audio Tape 10-Pack with Free Upgrade Tape expires 9/30/88. Offer expires 9/30/88. for $17.90. This coupon not valid with other offers. Offer expires 9/30/88. ~~~ 
NOTRE#1 NOTRE#1 NOTRE#1
L Ill L -.1 L 
• 
Great Selection Of Hits On Sale Everyday 

• 
More Than 20,000 Items I'o Choose From 

• 
Area's Best Selection Of Compact Discs 

• 
Super-Low Everyday Prices On Blank Audio And Video Tape 

• 
Huge Assortment of Movies And Music Videos For Sale 

• 
Special Orders Welcome 



5784 N. Grape Road, Indian Ridge Plaza • 271-9715 

..,, 
·o~ •r.f' ·• ·: 1 

Wednesday, August 24, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Bush, Duke continue attacks 
Associated Press A new Gallup poll said Bush billions of dollars in higher was leading Dukakis by a mar­taxes." 
Democrat Michael Dukakis gin of 48 percent to 44 percent At a fund-raising luncheon in ridiculed Republican George among registered voters. Irvine, Calif., for Republican Bush's call for a flexible budget However, the survey had a 3 Sen. Pete Wilson, Reagan said freeze on Tuesday, likening the percent margin of error, Dukakis was following a cam­proposal to "a melting ice meaning that either figure paign of "covert liberalism" cube." Embattled GOP vice could be off by that much. Gal­trying to conceal his true presidential nominee Dan lup contacted 1,000 likely beliefs. Quayle labeled reports about voters last weekend immedi­Dukakis responded: "I think him "just one bum rap after ately following the Republican it will be the American people another." National Convention. who decide who belongs in the 
Campaigning in Seattle, Dukakis continued to brush major leagues and who belongs Bush sounded impatient with aside poll results as having in the bush leagues." continued questioning about little meaning at this point in Quayle. "I'm appalled you the race. Earlier, Reagan signed trade could ask that," the vice pres­"I got a bounce (from the legislation at a ceremony in ident snapped when asked Democratic convention)," he Long Beach, Calif. As he was about a report that Quayle had said. "They got a bounce. I leaving he was asked if he once propositioned lobbyist think you'll see lots of thought Bush should drop Paula Parkinson. bounces." Quayle from the ticket and he 
The 41-year-old Indiana President Reagan described replied, "No. He's a fine man senator called the report "an the Republican ticket as "our and well-qualified." absolute, flat-out falsehood." winning team" and called the 
Bush campaign manager Democrats ''third-stringers However, a RepublicanLee Atwater said Quayle was with a weak defense, a foreign member of Congress, Howard "here to stay" and denied there policy of errors, curveball Nielson of Utah, said he ever was serious discussion of campaign promises, a set of thought Quayle was hurting the dropping him from the ticket. policies to be named later and ticket and should quit. 


, 1 
~ 
1


Welcome Back Sale 
1 
1 

DORM SHOP 
TOWELS: Luxury® Solid Color Bath 3.99 
SHEETS (twin size): Smart Value Plain Hem 4.99 X-Long White 10.99 Smooth Touch® Percale E.99 
3pc. Sheet Sets 29.00 PILLOWS: 
Smart Value Polyfil standard 4.99 queen 6.99 
MATTRESS PADS (twin size): Polyester I Cotton 15.99 
BEDSPREADS (twin size) : Fashion Flai~ Ribcord 18.00 Solid Color All Cotton Woven 29.99
20°/o OFF 
Smooth Touch Comforter 50.00 CATCH THE TEAM SPIRIT! BLANKETS (twin size): 
NOTRE DAME APPAREL Acrylic Thermal 25.00 
FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILV. All Cotton Thermal 25.00 You'll be rooting for your favorite college athletic 50% Acrylic I 50% Polyester teams in these comfy sweatshirts and sweat pants. 
Electric 45.00 
20'' FAN Dorm Trunks 
3 Speed 
26.99 19.99 -39.99 

20% OFF 
FAMILY ATHLETIC SHOES. 
It's our athletic shoe marathon! Big savings on famous names like Reebok ®and Nike~ Not as illustrated. 
Sale 35.99Reg. 45.99. Men's REEBOK ® 4000 lo-cut basketball shoe of soft garment leat9r· 
Sale 39.99Reg. 49.99 Men's NIKE Full Force® hi-top basketball shoe ofgarment leathet. Natural Sale 31.99Reg. 39.99 Woman's Ree~Fantasy 
shoes. Sale 47.99Reg. 59.99 Men's Reebo~l<H:ut shoes. 
Desk Lamps 
choose from 3 styles 
14.99 
lll:~~~(+)if~l You're look/ng smarter than everat JCRen n ey
Photos shown for Illustration purposes only. Entire line sales do not Include those llemaln our atores designated as JCPenn'ey Smart Values, Everydily V.luea, Special Buys, Markdowns or Cloaeouta. Percentage off represents savings on regul~r or original prlcea. Intermediate markdowna mey have been lllken on originally priced merchandise. 
Reductlonolrom orlglnolly priced men:hendiM orr.ctlve untllotock 11 depleted. Sole prlceo err.ctlw thru Saturday. August 27th, unleu otherwiM noted. • • • 
Charge tt at: Umverstty Park Mall-Mishawaka 
Phone 277-6000 (Clt1181 . .K:.....neyeo.lnc, 
Wednesday, August 24, 1988 
page 8 The Observer 
Buildings demolished in Nepal quake zone 
Associated Press 
DHARAN, Nepal-Police bul­ldozed teetering houses Tues­day to keep people from return­ing to homes left unsafe by an earthquake that killed at least 731 people in India and Nepal. 
Officials in both countries ex­pected the death toll to rise as relief workers reached remote towns that have been inacces­sible since Sunday's devastat­ing quake. 
Some roads were flooded by heavy rains that continued Tuesday, while others had 3­foot-deep cracks or were blocked by boulders the size of houses in the Himalayan moun­tains and valleys. 
Trade 
continued from page 1 
"We're here to sign a piece of legislation that will help our economy continue to grow and compete," Reagan told hundreds of dock workers and politicians as he spoke before a huge container ship in Long 
Policy 
continued from page 1 
David Tyson, vice president for 
student affairs, could not be 
reached for comment yester­
day. 
"I'm sure this is not the last 
word on the place of alcohol on 
the Notre Dame campus," he 
said. 
At least 531 people were killed in Nepal, said Tek Bahadur Thapa, additional secretary in the Home Affairs Ministry. 
Prime Minister Marich Man Singh Shrestha visited Dharan, one of the hardest-hit towns, and surveyed heaps of bricks that were once three-story and five-story houses. 
"This is the biggest calamity to strike Nepal,'' Shrestha said as he toured the town. 
India reported an official death toll of 200, but the figure was disputed by news media and opposition politicians who put the Indian death count at anywhere from 400 to 1,500. 
Beach,  one  of the world's 10  
busiest  computerized  cargo  
ports.  

The bill he signed is seen as a landmark bipartisan attempt to deal with the nation's trade woes. 
The signing ended months of negotiations between the ad­ministration and Congress 

The Observer I Mike Moran
Tuba or not tuba 
The Notre Dame Marching Band makes the trek to first football game on Sept. 10. Stepan Field for their frequent practices before the 

Avoid Long Cold Winter Walks off Campus 
Affordable New Cars Used Cars 
BASNEY FORD 
Sharon Dow
~ m1suzu ~ Yu6o 1 Sales RepPhone 291-691 0 
ND Grad '88 
over the bill, which Reagan vetoed when it was first sent to him because it contained a provision reqmrmg 60-day notice to employees of plant closings and layoffs. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 
Day Editors 
For further information contact 
Jim Winkler 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
PART-TIME POSITIONS WEDNESDAY AUGUST 24 4 PM to 8 PM 851 S. Marietta Monroe Industrial Park (2 Blocks west of Farmers Market on Lincoln Way East) Tl j[ SIGNATURE GF10UP  They go together at The Signature Group. Whether you're a MOM or a COLLEGE STUDENT, you can earn $1200 in three short months! The Signature Group offers you: • Company-paid CRT training • A variety of shifts to choose from (20-25 hours per week) • $4.50 per hour to start with an increase after 8 weeks • Paid vacations and holidays • Montgomery Ward merchandise discount You can become part of the fast­growing direct response industry representing a nationally recognized leader. Your pleasant telephone personality and good reading ability, combined with our specialized training will equip you with valuable new skills. The Signature Group's modern offices provide an ideal, friendly working environment. If you're interested in advancement or have . supervisory skills, there are opportunities for growth, too. CALL 236-4206 for directions and to reserve your place. Interviews will be conducted at the Open House, so you could start earning next week! Equal Opportunity Employer M/F.  M C. ESCHER PRINTS LASER PHOTOGRAPHS MOVIE POSTERS And Much More' IMPRCSSIONISM TO SURRCill/SM •••• , liND CVCRYTII/NC EJCTWCCN! Today thru ·Friday, Aug. 26 9am-5pm Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 3 LARGE PRINTS FOR ~12!  

page 9
Wednesday, August 24, 1988 The Observer 
Abortion foes remain in jail 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-More than a month of demonstrations by an anti-abortion group trying to close local clinics have worn out the city's welcome mat, and Southern hospitality is being withdrawn. 
During and just after the Democratic National Conven­tion, police carried anti­abortion protesters to waiting jail buses. Now, more than 700 arrests and a dozen demonstra­tions later, they drag them. 
"We're giving them the op­portunity to walk the 10 feet to the bus," said police Sgt. Mel­vin Denson. 
"We are no longer extending certain courtesies," says Sgt. Carl Pydrum. 
The jails are getting crowded, although corrections officials say they can manage, even if some demonstrators have to bunk on cell floors. And the cost of protecting the clinics and of arresting and holding the protesters has shot past $250,000. 
Operation Rescue, a New York -based anti-abortion group, kicked off the protests July 19, the second day of the convention, when scores of ac­tivists who were not carrying identification tried to block access to a clinic where abor­tions and other procedures are performed. 
Those arrested refused to give their names, identifying themselves as Baby Jane Doe or Baby John Doe to show solidarity with the fetuses. Some remain jailed; others have been identified or have won their release by giving their names. Comrades keep coming. 
Authorities won't release those who refuse to give their names, saying they could not be sure the protesters would return for court dates. 
The city's tactics in dealing with the activists have changed as the protests have dragged on. 
Captain charged in refugee case 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Navy has accused the captain of the USS Dubuque of dereliction of duty for failing to rescue a boatload of Vietnamese refugees who claim they later resorted to cannibalism to sur­vive. 
Pentagon sources said Tues­day it appears there were suf­ficient indications of hardship aboard the refugee boat when it crossed paths with the Dubuque that the Navy war­ship should have taken aboard the survivors. 
Capt. Alexander Balian, 48, of Los Angeles has been charged with two counts of violating lawful orders under a section of the Uniform Code of Military Justice that calls for "non-judicial punishment proceedings," said Cmdr. David Dillon, a Pacific Fleet spokesman in San Diego, Calif. 
As a result, instead of court­martial proceedings, the 48­year-old Navy captain will ap­pear at a closed "admiral's mast" on Wednesday after­noon before Vice Adm. George Davis Jr., the head of all sur­face ships in the Pacific Fleet, the spokesman added. 
Davis will serve as the lone judge in considering the evidence. The admiral could take a variety of disciplinary actions, including stripping Balian of his command perma­nently, ordering a fine or is­suing a letter of reprimand or censure. 
Balian was temporarily relieved of his command of the Dubuque on Aug. 13 while on patrol in the Persian Gulf. Davis is scheduled to retire on Saturday, suggesting he will make a decision quickly. 
Balian was charged with violating a general Navy regulation "by wrongfully failing to render appropriate assistance to Vietnamese refugees found on the South China Sea on June 9, 1988, in danger of being lost." 
The second count accuses him of violating standing operational orders for the Pacific Fleet "which require a commanding officer to aid and rescue refugees encountered at sea in life-endangering circum­stances." 
Write for The Observer before it writes about you 
· 
The Observer I Mike Moran
Shirt off his back 
Tie-dying is the occasion in front of the law school Tuesday, as Vic Pisani, a freshman in Dillon, exhibits his artwork. 
Parents of rape victim lead police to offender 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio-The par­ents of a rape victim staked out the location of the attack for more than a year, and their persistence paid off with an ar­rest. 
The wife acted as decoy and her armed husband waited in the dark. 
"Obviously, they had really carefully thought out what they were going to do," Debra Seltzer, rape prevention coord­inator of the local chapter of Women Against Rape, said Tuesday. "It really shows the frustration that a lot of people feel." 
Police on Monday announced the arrest of Robert Biddings, 34, of Columbus, who aut­horities say is a suspect in a four-year string of attacks at­tributed to the so-called "handcuff rapist." The nick­name resulted from the use 6f handcuffs in early attacks later attributed to the same man. 
Authorities believe the man is responsible for as many as 60 rapes. 

The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 

Assistant News Editor 
For further information contact Mark Mclaughlin or Regis Coccia at The Observer (239-5303) 
The Observer is looking for new reporters. We don't expect Pulitzer Prize winners --we'll train you to call, interview, write, and edit. We do expect commitment. If you want to meet people, 
You'll have an unequaled opportunity to lead,
get invaluable communications experience and add something 
manage and be successful. Aim High with Air
to your resume, stop in The Observer and ask for Regis Coccia 
Force ROTC
or Mark Mclaughlin. 
CAPT SAM GAGLIO 219-239-6634


The Observer 
~

Be a part of it. 
="':.~
---------·="': -~ 








Viewpoint
page 10 Wednesday, August 24, 1988 
Viewpoint Policy 
I. All members of the Notre Dame and feet, only being co-signed by the Saint Mary's community may submit organization. guest columns, letters to the editor, or VIII. Commentaries which appear in cartoons to the Viewpoint department the Viewpoint section may not have of the Observer. While individuals not been printed previously in other associated with the Notre Dame and newspapers, magazines or publica­Saint Mary's community may submit tions. Exceptions to this procedure are guest columns, letters to the editor, and those organizations of which The Ob­cartoons, the Viewpoint department server is a member, quotations used gives priority to those individuals who for commentaries, and "Quote of the are directly associated with the com­Day." Syndicated columns also are ex­munity. cluded from this procedure. 
II. All columns, letters to the editor, IX. The opinions expressed in the View­and cartoons submitted to the View­point section are not necessarily those point department become the property of the editorial board. House editorials of The Observer. Any further use of appear in the Viewpoint section of The these commentaries without the writ­Observer. Regular columnists, those ten consent of The Observer is whose columns appear on a regular prohibited. Not-for-profit organiza­basis; guest columnists, those whose tions, those organizations which have columns do not appear on a regular a reciprocal-usage agreement and basis; letters to the editor; and car­those organizations of which The Ob­toons are commentaries. Such status is server is a member may be granted determined by the Viewpoint editor in permission to publish commentaries all incidences except house editorials. with the permission of the editor-in­X. Paid employees of The Observer are chief or the permission of the managing not permitted to have their commen­editor and the Viewpoint editor. taries appear in the Viewpoint section 
III. The Viewpoint department as letters to the editor. Regular colum­reserves the right to edit all commen­nists and members of the Viewpointtaries submitted to the Viewpoint de­staff also are not eligible to have their partment. The Observer has no obliga­commentaries appear in the Viewpoint 
tion to print commentaries submitted. section as letters to the editor. The Commentaries will not be printed if status of such individuals is determined they are libelous, unintelligible, or sub­by the Viewpoint editor. Those whose mitted by anyone mentally unbalanced. commentaries appear in print in 
IV. 
All commentaries submitted to the column form may not respond to Observer must bear the signature of criticism of that commentary in letters the author. Under no circumstances to the editor. will unsigned commentaries appear in XI. This policy must be approved by print in the Viewpoint section of The the editorial board and can be amended Observer. by a majority vote of the editorial 

V. 
Commentaries submitted as letters board. All procedures not covered in to the editor may not exceed three in this policy statement are left to the dis­number from the same individual or cretion of the Viewpoint editor in con­organization within the same academic sultation with the editor-in-chief. The semester. There is no limit to the num­procedures outlined in this policy apply ber of times an individual or organiza­to only the Viewpoint department of tion may have their commentaries ap­The Observer. pear in print as guest columnists or XII. No commentaries of any kind will regular columnists. be printed in the Viewpoint section con­


VI. All commentaries printed in the cerning any candidate for student gov­Viewpoint section must be verified ernment or hall office once the official before being printed. The means of campaign period has begun for that of­verification are left to the discretion of fice. This ban on commentaries is to the Viewpoint editor. continue until the election for the posi­
VII. Only those individuals authorized tion has been completed. The Observer to speak as representatives for a group reserves the right to comment on any will be allowed to use the organization's candidate or issue it wishes throughout name. In such cases, the primary au­the campaign period. At any time, the thor of the commentary is the individ­editor-in-chief and the Viewpoint editor ual(s), and the commentary is, in ef-may suspend this article. 

Doyle-Paese set year's agenda 
Welcome back to Notre Dame. We fpr tailgaters. hope that all of you had an enjoyable As we reflect on the summer, the area summer and are excited, as we are, where most progress has been made about the 1988-1989 school year. We concerns the political, cultural and so­believe that our efforts during our stay cial awareness agenda. First, we have here this summer have been fruitful, appointed a chairman who has begun for we began to lay the ground work to organize a campus-wide debate se­for what looks to be a fantastic year. ries that will most probably take place Six months ago we made commitments in the spring. Second, Student Union in two areas to Notre Dame students: Board should be commended for their first, to improve student services and efforts in attracting superior speakers second, to provide diverse fora to en­for this year. Third, Student Govern­hance the political, social and cultural ment will be organizing a campus-wide awareness on campus. We shall take voter registration campaign that will this opportunity to discuss both what begin in September. Moreover, our of­has been accomplished and what you fice will be arranging information can expect to be achieved through the booths that will provide information on next year. all the presidential candidates. Space 
does not allow for a description of ourTom Doyle complete agenda, but these are only a few of the many programs that we will
Mike Paese 
provide this year. 
guest column In an effort to better inform the stu­
dent body and hold us more account­
able to students, The Observer has 
kindly granted us space for a weeklyClearly, the service that we most column to discuss Student Government hoped to provide for the student body issues and events. We invite your input was the establishment of a 24-hour stu­and thoughts on any issue concerningdent lounge. After much work and our work.
frustration, such a facility has been ap­Finally and most importantly, to beproved with the invaluable cooperation successful this year we need your in­of Mr. William Hickey and the Univer­volvement and support. Please do notsity Food Services staff. It will be lo­hesitate to stop by or call the Studentcated in the Oak Room at the South Government Office, located on theDining Hall, will serve a limited menu, second floor of LaFortune.
and will remain open 24 hours, seven 
days a week. However, this service will 
Tom Doyle is the Student Body Presi­
be provided on a trial basis contingent 
dent, and Mike Paese is the Student 
on the number of students using the 
Body Vice President.
lounge. If you find this facility to be an 
important service, its survival depends 
on your use of it. 
In addition, two booklets published 
Correction
under the last Student Government ad­
ministration will soon be distributed. 
The first booklet deals with various On April 29, Dr. Asher Brenner's aspects of off-campus housing ranging column "Decide between truth and 
from crime prevention to community 
myth" was printed with deletions resources. The other manual is a guide 
which may have caused misun­to on-and off-campus life at Notre derstanding of the data. A copy of Dame. As the year progresses we will the original article can be acquired attempt to address a whole spectrum by contacting The Observer. 
of service issues, dealing with issues 
from more phones in the library and 
the academic buildings to more toilets 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space tS avatlable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners. is encouraged. 
Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Phpto Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 




Accent
Wednesday, August 24, 1988 
Summer Movies feature Hits and Misses 
F
JOE BUCOLO audiences are treated to some stars in a motion picture a accent writer of this summer's most new nationwide fad emerges memorable scenes. Ever and for a film to cause such aster than the dripping of wonder what goes on during excitement is an incredible a melting ice cream cone, those team meetings on the thing. "Top Gun" boosted summer comes and goes; pitcher's mound? "Bull Dur­Navy enrollment and pool however, the memories of its ham" offers some entertain­rooms were crowded after events linger. In addition to ing answers. This film is a "The Color of Money "--Bar­parasailing, swimming, and grand slam from the moment tending schools beware. tanning, movie viewing is a the first pitch is thrown. "Cocktail," however, is not hot summer activity and this Only "Midnight Run" can just an attempt to "cash in" summer's movies offer some create a hilarious story about on Tom Cruise's national ap­of the year's best--and worst-­men running from the mob. peal; it is a well-written story films. Robert De Niro stars as a about a man who wants to 
''Switcheroo-syndrome'' bounty hunter who captures make it rich in corporate 
continues with the latest addi­Robin Hood-like Charles America. Mter enrolling in tion to the list of "boy be­Grodin for whom both the some business courses, Cruise comes man" films in "Big." mob and the police are sees his dream begin to fade. Tom Hanks portrays a boy searching. Together, De Niro His bartending job provides a who makes a wish to a car­and Grodin travel cross­place where he can show-off nival wizard that he were big. country in a series of witty as well as make money, and It does not take a wizard to adventures and "one-liners." Cruise decides to make a predict that the wish comes While funny, "Midnight career out of it. In Jamaica, true and Hanks becomes a Run's" characters are real where he opens his own child trapped in an adult's people. De Niro and Grodin beachside bar, Cruise meets body. Surprisingly, the se­become best friends as they the character played by quences that follow are grapple with personal prob­Elisabeth Shue. They fall in refreshing and hilarious. lems such as loneliness, love but are immediately Hank finds his way into some divorce, and the role of faced with trouble. "Cock­funny situations but none money in their lives. "Mid­tail's" bar is definitely open. compare to the "Chopsticks" night" is a box office run­Perhaps the biggest let scene in which Hanks and his away hit. down of the summer is "The new boss entertain a toy store Eddie Murphy does some Presidio." Oscar winner Sean crowd by tapping out the traveling of his own in "Com­Connery teams with Mark familiar tune on a large piano ing to America." As Prince Harmon in what should be an in the floor. Akeem, Murphy seeks to find exciting murder mystery. In­·­
Summer and baseball go a woman fit to be his queen stead, viewers squirm in their hand in hand but one film in in, where else, Queens, New seats through this sour, con­particular is even more enter­York. In his best role to date, fusing flop. Even after two taining than a Cubs game un­Murphy portrays the naive hours of Connery and Harmon der Wrigley Field's new and innocent prince brilliant­virtually pulling clues out of endures while trying to pass movies being released. With lights. In "Bull Durham" ly. Sidekick Arsenio Hall the air and piecing them to­drivers education. "License such films as "Young Guns," Kevin Costner portrays a makes his screen debut as gether, the audience still is to Drive" attempts to capture "Betrayed," and "Clean and minor league catcher with one of the summer's most not quite sure who killed the these memorable moments, Sober" just beginning to dreams of playing for a win­likable fellows. Viewers may victim and why. but this film runs on empty. emerge, there's sure to be ning team and setting a bat­enjoy "Coming to America" Everyone remembers the The Writers Strike certainly standing room only at most ting record. While the new by simply counting the num­trials and tribulations one did not affect the quality of theatres nationwide. pitcher on the team helps ber of times they can recog­Costner realize his dreams, nize Murphy and Hall, each he also proves to be some of whom makes several ap­stiff competition in Costner's pearances in minor roles. fight to win the affections of a One drama rounds out the 
Scoop on soaps
lovely lady. summer's best: "Cocktail." It Throughout the movie, seems each time Tom Cruise 

A feeding frenzy 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) a recreation equipment. burly police officer barely For Sessions, a 27-year-old beat out a 90-pound Alabama police officer from Craw­woman to claim a charity fordsville, the third time was pizza-eating contest. a charm. Sessions said he 
Jim Sessions out-gobbled changed his strategy from the Vickie Staten to claim the past two years. $1,500 grand pruze in the an­"I ate my first three pizzas nual contest sponsored by in the first 20 minutes and the Arni's restaurant. other two in the rest of the 
With the crowd chanting remaining time," Sessions "Eat, eat, eat," Sessions and said. Ms. Staten each devoured one Ms. Staten, a 30-year-old large and four small cheese former Lafayette resident 
pizzas within the one-hour who now lives in Guntersville, 
time limit Sunday night. Ala., used a different tech­The contest was close. nique. "She was about a half-bite "I didn't drink that much 
away from being the winner," something I noticed a lot of said Arni Cohen, the restau­other people around me rant owner who has spon­1doing," she said. "I wouldn't sored the contest 13 years. have made it if I would've 
"We haven't had a girl in drunk a lot of water." the running for a long time, and all of the sudden this Ms. Staten collected $400 little thing comes out of for an hour's work. nowhere," Cohen said Mon­"I was determined to get day. that money, and I almost got 
1the big money," she said 
Cohen said 72 contestants Monday. "I would have if I'd paid $10 each to compete. A taken one more big bite. It $1,500 donation will be made was easy; I love pizza." to the Hanna Community Sessions said he didn't Center in Lafayette. The know how he would spend his money will be used to rent a 'prize money, but one thing van to transport children was certain. attending day camp at the "I'm having a liquid dinner center and to urchase toni t," he said. 
Y
oung Daniel Harris, who plays Sammy Garetson in "One Life to Live," has the leading role in "Halloween IV," the next installment in the horror movie series that started the whole box-office bonanza for the genre. 
Danielle plays Jamie, the daughter of the now deceased Laurie, who fans will recall was almost Jason's first vic­tim in the original "Hal­loween." Donald Pleasence, the doctor in some of the "Halloween" movies, is also back. Incidentally, they named Danielle's character Jamie as a tribute to Jamie Lee Curtis, who was the first leading lady to run from Jason's killing rampage. 
Jack is not faring too well in the world of politics on "Days of Our Lives." He probably could use some ad­vice from Angelica or Patch. Childless Adrienne fears losing Justin while Benji charms his grandfather. 
Felicia is unable to trust Colton, who is still doting on the mystery woman on "General Hospital." Tony stays with Bobbie, but Gregory tells Bobbie that he's not about to give her up. Louise witnesses a fight be­tween Lucy and Terry. Despite troubles, Felicia and 
Colton come together for a night of love. 
Mter she loses custody of her child, a distraught Tori is driven around the bend on "Santa Barbara." T.J. is about to give up on Kelly and an uneasy Scott hopes he's wrong about Zack. 
Will Jessica's presence af­fect Traci's pregnancy on "The Young and the Rest­less?" Leanna wonders if she'll be able to handle Victor when he learns the truth, while Nina, under Rex's ex­pert tutelage, surprises Phil­lip. 
Bothe imposter holds Didi hostage on "One Life to Live." Mter Tina is lured to a hotel room, the Imposter takes her to a nearby car­nival where Cord rescues her. Steve asks Gabrielle for a divorce. Meanwhile, with Didi handcuffed to an electrical panel at the carnival's fun house, Bo and the Imposter confront each other. Tina goes to meet Ursula, a friend of Patrick London's. 
On "Ryan's Hope," Sylvio, Ryan, and Jack convince George Anthony to end the violence and he gives up with­out a fight. Jill Novak is worried that Siobahn is obsessed with Max Dubujak. 
At a florist shop, we see a stranger's back as he orders a rose which he plans to deliver to Siobhan. Later, as Siobhan is taking a shower, a ­figure enters the bathroom. 
Steven Andrews, who kid­napped Travis, poses as Dave Gillis and rents a room in the boarding house where Erica and her daughter are staying in "All My Children." Cindy's son Scott and Angie's son Frankie want to join the ­ACES but have to submit to a dangerous initiation -­walking the railroad tracks. Scott refuses but Frankie agrees, and his sneaker is caught when he tries to jump off the track to avoid an ap­proaching train. 
Jim follows Shana to Rome in hopes of getting Luciano's help with a reconciliation on "Loving." The homeless shel­ter is threatened. When Lily is interviewed on TV, her piano solo brings in offers. There is also a lavish party at Luciano's villa. 
Unhappy Throne doesn't see the telltale signs that Caroline needs a clean break in "The Bold and the Beauti­ful." Storm and Margo pick Clark to pieces. Beth needs more support from Eric as Stephen begins to make his presence felt. 
-~------------·----~------~----------~---------------------~ 
page 12 
The Observer Wednesday, August 24, 1988 

Checklist of Back-to-School savings this week at Venture 

6.88 
4.99
reg. 9.99 
Lenoxx 2-piece 
reg. 6.99 decorator phone Full size Tucker Works on all 
crates phone systems 
•Vertical or ' and is desk or wall 
horizontal crates mountable. Last 
sale3.99 
In our notions department. 
number redial. 

14.99 2/$5
reg. 19.99 
reg. 3.99 each 
Bean bag chair 
Stackable 
....... 
The bag is back! 
storage crates
Take home one of 
Extra storage
these big comfy 
space for books, 
chairs in your 
plants and lots of 
choice of some 
other items. 
great colors. 
19¢ 
99¢
~our choice 
tuart Hall ~our choice 70page torage or under­themebooks bed box Storage Choose wide or 24x13x1 0% "D, narrow college underbed ruled 10%x8" 6x16x28% "D. 
In our notions department. 
page size. Many colors. Buy one for each class! 
-


3.99 
reg. 5.99
7.99 
DAC808
reg. 12.99 
standard pillow
Swing-arm desk 
With Dacron 
lamp Clamp 
polyester.
fastens to desk or 
-
•Queen size reg.
headboard. Great 
6.99 sale 5.99
selection of office 
•King size reg.
colors. 
8.99sale6.99 



88.88 
reg. 139.99 Avanti washer/dryer Washes, rinses and dries in one machine. Compact, 4 V2 lb. washing caoacity.
Modei2001 
10.99 
reg. 13.99 Black &Decker steam &dry iron Lightweight. Has 27 vents. 
Modal F-363BED 
4.50 
reg. 6.99 Portable ironing board Adjustable 
height, ventilated top. Easy to store, 
easy to use any 
time! 
2/$7 reg. 5.49 Rubbermaid laundry baskets Choose square floral or rectangular baskets. Sturdy and flexible. 

Admit it, you're gonna need this stuff. So, get it at Venture and save! 
0 Shower curtains  0 Dustpans  0 Storage boxes  
0 Shower caddies  D Trash cans  D Bedrests  
D Laundry bags  D Dish drainers  D Closet organizers  
D Drying racks  D Coffee makers  D Door mirrors  
DRugs  D Clock radios  D Padlocks  
D Blankets  D Fans  D Backpacks  

Store locations: 4600 S. High Street and 5700 Grape Rd. 
Wednesday, August 24, 1988 The Observer page 13 

Tyson breaks bone in hand during a late-night scuffle 
Associated Press The cast, stretching from the Tyson said the fight occurred 
hand to within about 4 inches around 4:30 a.m. outside a 24­
NEW YORK -Heavyweight of the elbow, is to be on for hour clothing store, where he champion Mike Tyson broke a three weeks. It then will be de­had gone to pick up a jacket. bone in his right hand during a termined if there will be suffi­street fight early Tuesday with cient time for Tyson to train for Green's version, according former boxing opponent Mitch the bout, Cayton said. to police, was different. Green, the champion con­Green told investigators the firmed Tuesday night. The break was described as fight took place outside an 
Tyson appeared at a news minor and the boxer said he felt after-hours club in Harlem, conference wearing a cast on no pain. said police spokesman Sgt. his right hand, and said the in­There were conflicting John Clifford. Green said jury was a hairline fracture of reports of what occurred. "Tyson popped him on the the third metacarpal. bridge of his nose," Clifford 
Tyson claimed that Mitch said. The injury required five 
Tyson's manager, Bill Green, a one-time Tyson op­stitches. 
Cayton, said he didn't know ponent, ripped his shirt and 
whether Tyson's Oct. 8 fight started the fight as Tyson was Police were investigating 
against Frank Bruno at Lon­getting into his car early Tues­and no charges had been filed. 
don, England, would have to be day morning. The pair ex­Green, 31, couldn't be 
rescheduled. changed punches, Tyson said. reached for comment. 
Sports Briefs 
A sportswriters meeting .for veteran writers will take place tomorrow at 7:30p.m. at The Observer. Fall assignments will be discussed. New writers will meet Mon­day night at a time to be announced. Questions may be directed to Marty Strasen at 239-5303 or 283-1471. -The Observer 
Football ticket forms have been mailed to all students, first-year ticket manager Bubba Cunningham said. Season tickets go on sale Monday (seniors), Tuesday (juniors), Wednesday (sophomores and grad students) and Thursday (freshmen) from 1:30 to 8 p.m. at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. The seven-game season ticket costs $73.50. Those who do not receive applications may pick them up at the OBUD office in LaFortune Thursday and Friday from 7-9 p.m. -The Observer 
TheNDwomen'sgolfteamwillholdanorganizationa. meeting Thursday at 6 p.m. in the basement of Walsh Hall. All those interested should attend. -The Observer 
SMC varsity volleyball tryouts will be at 3:30 
p.m. daily at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament will be Saturday, Sept. 3 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Green Field. Each team must pay a $9 registration fee and must have a minimum of two girls. Proceeds will be donated to Dis­mas House. Signups will be held Monday and Tuesday in both dining halls at breakfast and dinner. Any questions should be directed to Kris Malaker at x1915 or Rachel Lyons at x2895. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby club will hold a meeting for all new players Thursday at 5 p.m. in room 117 of Haggar Hall. Practice begins Monday at 4:30p.m. at Stepan Field. -The Observer 
Three ND athletes were selected as GTECoSIDA Academic All-Americans. The Academic All-Americans include the baseball team's outfielder Dan Peltier, track team hammer thrower Tom Mick and the lacrosse team's attack man John Olmstead. -The Observer 
The ND Martial Arts Institute will have its first workout at 6:30p.m. Friday at Rockne Memorial. All re­turning members should attend. -The Observer 
Fisher Hall will hold its 'On the Grass Classic,' a two-person volleyball tournament, this Saturday and Sun­day. Tournament field is limited to 24 teams with a $10 entry fee per team. Proceeds go to Andre House of Hospitality. If interested, contact Mike Shimota at x1987. 
-The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sund~y through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
n.a.--Notra Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Cent.-, 8CC8Pts cluaiflecl ectv.tlling from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.oc..r-Saint ~offlat, located on the third ftoor of HIQgar Collge Cent.-, accepts claaalflecla from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day claaalfledsls3 p.m. All claaalfleds must 
be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five char.:tenl p.-day. 




Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
..............................~~ ............................... 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x1177 
..... .. ......... . 
Inter Varsrty Chns11an Fellowship Bible Study group. Introductory meeting: To· morrow. 7pm, J09 Grace. All welcome! Questions? Call Jim 283 1621 or Andreas 287 4855. 
USED TEXTBOOKS..ALL CLASSES! Bought & Sold·-Best prices! PAN· DORA'S BOOKS 608 Howard St. just oH of N.D Ave. ph.233-2342 
WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 683· 8889·287·6389 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR FOOTBALL WWEEKENDS. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY...1-219-291­7153 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD 255-3684-288·0955 ·•········································ 
ROOMMATE WANTED: 1124 CORBY ST. $12!>' MO. OWN ROOM, SHARE BATH CALL BILL, ED, OR SCOTI 287­7933 OR STOP BY. WE DON'T GET PHONE UNTIL FRIDAY 
HOMES & ROOMS FOR RENT.NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 
WANTED 
POST ADVERTISING MATERIALS ON CAMPUS. WRITE: COLLEGE DIS· TRIBUTORS, 33 PEBBLEWOOD TRAIL, NAPERVILLE. IL 60540 
HELP WANTED, DAYS AND NIGHTS APPLY IN PERSON MACRI'S DELl 
POLITICAL PHONE SURVEYORS NEEDED EARN EXTRA MONEY PART TIME TEMPORARY POSITIONS EVENINGS AND SATURDAY $4.75 ­$5.00tiOUR CALL DIANA AT 233·9826 OR 259·3520 
TICKETS TICKETS TICKETS Will buy tickets to any NO football game, home or away, student or GA. Call us today and get $ to buy those bargain· priced textbooks. Call 4601, 3t55, or 3157. 
Your football ticket application. Don't like football? I won't harass you about your lack of school spirit if you sell me your application. Call 2804 or 272· 7690. 
FOR SALE 
TANDY 1000SX,MNTR,PNTR&LOTS OF SFTWRE -·$1000: CALL 259·4317 AFTS 
SELLING MY FAITHFULL MULE (PL YMUTH VOLARE, 76,STATION WAGON) FOR ONLY $150. UGLY AND RUSTY, BUT RELIABLE 
HP·16c,programmer calculator ,new,$75,272·8253,239· 7385 
LOFT FOR DORM ROOM: $30. Evenlnga -2n-5533. 
Pr. upholstered chairs $35, lamp $15, 4'x4' white carpet $10, AM-FM dual cas­sette deck $45. 291-4869. 
............................................................ 
BMW 2002, '72, sunrl, engine reblt--runs like new. $4000 219·872·2636 
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of NO and now it's up to me to sell his blue NO "starter" jacket (size Medium) Uust like on page 4 of the bookstore catalog). Like new. Regularly $63.955 but it's yours lor only $30. Call 2804 or 272-7690 lor this chance of a lifetime. 
L..-_T_IC_K_ET_S__.I 
NEED 1 STUDENT TX FOR MICHIGAN GAME X2756 
ii't¥l:P·,·,-·i:1v..PA'iiE.i.irs'A'iiE'.A'iiFiivir:iG 
FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME AND I NEED 3 TIX DESPERATELY··WILL PAY $$$$$ CALL DEBBIE AT 2939. 
I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAME TIXS.272-6306 
FOR SALE MICHIGAN tickels call Greg 234·6355 
NEED GA TIX FOR ALL FOOTBALL HOME GAMES. 272.0058. 
NEED GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME. 239-5303 OR 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. ASK FOR SHIRLEY. 
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of NO and be in their band. My sister is in the Band of the Fighting IRISH. My parents need to be at the Michigan-NO game to prevent my siblings from killing each other and to see their beloved children at this game of high sentimental value. Help stop needless violence. Sell me 3 tickets and keep my family intact. $$ little or no ob­ject. Call 2804 or 272·7690. 
I want Michigan tixllllllllllllllllll Lots of them lor BIG $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Amy D. at 1822 ASAP 
( PERSONALS 
BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION Loving couple, both college teachers. un· able to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are responsible caring people ready to share our love with a much wanted baby. Medical ex­penses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect. 317-743-0791 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x11n 
................................................................ 
COME...WE GO 
CLUB 23 NOW OPPEN II STUFFED PIZZA & SANDWICHES 
Bored with your aHemoona... Want to meet people and get In­volved... Come work at the Oboerver 
Be a part altha team aa a DAY EDITOR or TYPIST Contact Jim Winkler at 239-7471. 
BROTHER WILUAM J. DOHERTY, 
c.s.c. 
Congratulation• on your 45 yea111 at the Poet Office. 
GOOD JOBI 
ROCK'ROCK'ROCK Who told you rocks don't float? 1know of a certain bathtub that can prove you wrong! 
AUDITIONS II 
SHENANIGANS 
IS LOOKING FOR TALENTED, FUN­LOVING PEOPLE SIGN UP AT 441 MORRISSEY, OR JUST SHOW UP TONIGHT 215 O'SHAUGHNESSY 8:3G-11:00 
Going to Ann Arbor this weekend? ... Call x4028 (Ann) 
Aneel & Paul •• Thanks lor all your help last night. ··S,K,M,& A 
To my fellow members of the Demon Quad -it's gonna be a great year!l 
Tim Phelan... You are such a stud! I am so glad you are hereII By the looks of it, you are going to have a great year. 
Theresa and Monica -You're real fine, my 409! It Is going to be a great year! But step out of line, and we'll bum your beds. 
We love youl 
Anet... Don't worry..Be Happy. 
.----------------------------------------------------------:-c-:-::-----:-c--·----­
~·.1 •• _'l.f·~·'-~ ~:;_·_..,1•.·~~ 
Wednesday, August 24, 1988
The Observer
page 14 
Irish 12th and 13th in preseason polls 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame is ranked 12th in the nation by United Press In­ternational and 13th by the As­sociated Press, the two major pre-season college football polls released last weekend. 
The Irish finished last season ranked 17th by the AP and un­ranked in the UPI poll follow­ing an 8-4 season that ended with three consecutive losses. 
Florida State, which finished second in the nation last season, heads both polls enter­ing the 1988 campaign. The former women's college in Tal­lahassee, Fla., school never before has been ranked first in its football program's 41-year history. 
Defending national cham­pion Miami, which defeated Florida State 26-25 in Tallahas­see last season, is ranked fifth by the UPI and eighth by the AP. Miami hosts Florida State on Sept. 3 in the season-opener for both schools. 
Miami is one of five Notre Dame opponents ranked in the two polls' preseason Top 20. The other four Top 20 teams on Notre Dame's fall schedule are Southern California (ranked sixth by the AP and eighth by the UPI), Michigan (11th, lOth), Michigan State (15th in 
both  polls)  and  Penn  State  
(20th, 15th).  
Pittsburgh,  another  Notre  

Dame foe, is among the 'others receiving votes' in both polls. 
Trailing Florida State in the AP's Top 10 are Nebraska, Oklahoma, Clemson, UCLA, 
Southern Cal, Auburn, Miami, Iowa and Texas A&M. 
Rounding out the AP Top 20 are Michigan, Georgia, Notre Dame, Alabama, Michigan State, West Virginia, Tennes­see, Louisiana State, South Carolina and Penn State. 
Following the top-ranked Seminoles in the UPI Top 10 are Oklahoma, Nebraska, Clem­son, Miami, Texas A&M, Auburn, Southern Cal, UCLA and Michigan. 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized. 
1. Florida State (44) 11-1-Q 1,161 2. Nebraska (2) 10-2-0 952 3. Oklahoma (2) 11-1-0 946 4. Clemson (3) 10-2-0 929 5. UCLA (2) 10-2-0 818 
6. usc (3) 8-4-0 775 
7. Auburn 9-1-2 769 
B. Miami 12-0-0 747 
9. Iowa (1) 10-3-0 736 10. Texas A&M 10-2-0 659 
11. Michigan(!) 8-4-0 608 
12. Georgia 9-3-0 449 13. Notre Dame (1) 8-4-0 359 14. Alabama 7-5-0 342 15. Michigan State 9-2-1 307 16. West Virginia 6-6-0 285 17. Tennessee 10-2-1 250 18. Louisiana State 10-1-1 249 19. South Carolina 8-4-0 216 20. Penn State 8-4-0 211 UPI 1. Florida State (37) 11-1-0 713 2. Oklahoma (4) 10-2-0 607 3. Nebraska (1) 11-1-0 552 4. Clemson 10-2-0 485 
5. Miami 10-2-0 452 
6: Texas A&M (1) 8-4-0 391 7. Aubum 9-1-2 373 
8. usc 12-0-0 348 
9. UCLA (2) 10-3-0 338 10. Michigan (I) 10-2-0 309 11. Iowa 8-4-0 190 12. Notre Dame 9-3-0 183 Louisiana State 8-4-0 167 Georgia 7-5-0 140 
Michigan State 9-2-1 131 Penn State 6-6-0 131 
Tennessee 10·2-1 104 South Carolina 10-1-1 70 Alabama 8-4-0 49 Texas 8-4-0 46 

Bobby McAllister and the Michigan State Spar­tans are one of five Top 20 teams on Notre Dame's schedule. Florida State is the top-ranked team on 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take a lofesaving 
Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross 
HOMES & ROOMS FOR RENT 
272-6306 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FOREIGN 
STUDY 
PROGRAM IN 
JERUSALEM 
INFORMATION MEETING 

with 
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 1988
Sr. Mary Aquin O'Neill. ASM , 
the new coordinator ol 4:30P.M. 
the program at Tanlur. ROOM 410 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
Carpet your dorm room with thick, beautiful
Open Daily 10-5:30pm 
Sat 10-5 carpet, but not empty your pocketbook! Sizes from 6x9, 12x7, 12x9, 12x12, 12xl3,
Directions: 
12x14, 12xl5, 12x16, 12x18, and up . 
••-.N.o..__.. g 
_ed_l_so_n... ~ McKinley Bring Your Measurements Visa and Mastercard accepted 
Mishawaka a.* 234-9148 
VVednesday, August24, 1988 
The Observer page 15 


AL Roundup 
Twins continue their Tiger hex 
Associated Press 
Royals 11 , Rangers 7 Blue Jays 7, White Sox 2 
MINNEAPOLIS Kent ARLINGTON, Texas TORONTO -Fred McGriff Hrbek's second homer of the George Brett singled, walked homered and tripled Tuesday game, a two-run shot in the lOth and scored twice to spark an night as the Toronto Blue Jays inning Tuesday night, lifted the eight-run rally with two outs in beat the Chicago White Sox 7-2 Minnesota Twins over Detroit the ninth inning Tuesday night after the start of the game was 7-5 for their lOth straight vic­and the Kansas City Royals delayed 2 hours and 13 minutes tory against the Tigers. shocked the Texas Rangers 11-by rain. 
The Twins, who beat Detroit 7. Jesse Barfield homered and in five games in last year's The Royals, trailing 7-3, com-got his 500th career RBI and American League playoffs, are bined six walks with four hits Ernie Whitt also homered as 10-1 versus the East Division and a wild pitch against four Toronto sent the White Sox to leaders this season. pitchers. Jeff Russell left after their sixth straight loss. 
eight innings with a five-hitter Jim Clancy, 7-15, gave up two 
Kirby Puckett opened the before Kansas City's com-runs on eight hits in 6 1-3 in­lOth with a single off Mike Hen­eback. nings. Duane Ward pitched 2 neman, 6-3. Hrbek followed Brett met Mitch Williams a 1-3 hitless innings for his lOth with his 24th home run, all leadoff single and Brad Wei-save. against AL east opponents. lman and Bill Buckner drew Chuck Finley, 7-12, allowed Hrbek went 3-for-5 and drove one-out walks. Dale Mohorcic, only two singles by Greenwell in four runs. 2-6, struck out Bo Jackson, but for four innings. 
Jeff Reardon, 1-4, pitched one pinch hitter Danny Tartabull Indians 6, Brevvers 2 
inning for his first victory since got a two-run single and Willie 
last Sept. 13. The Twins won Wilson's RBI single pulled MILWAUKEE -Rich Yett 
their first extra-inning game in Kansas City within 7-6. Steve pitched five-hit ball for seven 
six tries this year. Farr, 4-2, got the victory. innings and Joe Carter doubled 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~twice Tuesday night, leading


the Cleveland Indians over the Milwaukee Brewers 6-2. 
Yett, 8-4, walked three and struck out three. Don Gordon finished with two-hit relief. The Indians got 11 hits and ended a three-game losing streak. 
Bill Wegman, 10-11, lost his fifth straight decision. He gave up nine hits in 6 1-3 innings and remained winless since July 19. 
Red Sox 10, Angels 2 
BOSTON-Mike Greenwell's lOOth RBI put Boston ahead in the fifth inning and Jim Rice, Rich Gedman and Todd Benzinger homered Tuesday night as the Red Sox routed the California Angels 10-2. 
MIT. Structural Engineering. University of Virginia, Fi-Uc Santa Cruz, Marine Biol-University of Michigan, MBA Greenwell, who leads the 
major leagues in RBI, went 3­
Analyzing and designing nance. Studies fluctuating ogy. Studies behavior of blue candidate. Assisted on pric­for-4. His run-scoring single capped a three-run fifth that
bridges. Developed working stock and money market whales and effect of environ-ing projects for GM. The HP­
made it 3-2. modelofadoublespandrelarch trends. Assisted head trader menton distribution of mar-17Bofferseasyalgebraicentry. Wade Boggs also had three hits, increasing his American
bridge. The HP-28S helps him in Yen at Chicago Mercantile ine mammals. The new, easy Plus timevalueofmoney, cash League-leading average to .359.
analyze structural stress and Exchange. The HP-12C with to use HP-22S has a built-in flows and linear regression to 
Mike Boddicker, 10-14, scat­geometry. It's the only calcu-RPN lets him analyze prices, equation library with solver, analyze budgets and forecasts. tered six hits and struck out seven in 7 1-3 innings.
::~::a~~:=,:':"~:::::~:-NewAchievers in =~~~=~e:":e::~:;:;:: 
variable. 
Hewlett­
~::~~;:~ Heavy Metal, Swing, Blues 
matrix math and graphiCS cap-Packard's calculators are built 
and Motown 
abilities. And HP Solve lets him • for your success. Look for them 
solve custom formulas without ratios, net present value and giving her access to the most at your campus bookstore. Or 
programming. With more than internal rate of return. He can commonly used scientific calll-800-752-0900, Ext. 658E, 
1500 functions, 32K RAM and even create his own custom equations. Statistics with for your nearest dealer. 
both RPN and algebraic entry, programs. The HP-12C is the linear regression. ~nd alge-We never stop asking "What if ... 
the HP-28S is the ultimate sci-established standard in fi-braic entry. The ideal student 
(h~ HEWLETT 
entific calculator. IJancial calculators. science calculator. PACKARD ·;;&E{'fu 
R •I· P .. •BEERNUTS• . 
:Novv that Beernuts is 
' no longer vvith us, The Observer is looking for a campus cartoonist. The position is paid, and the cartoonist is expected to vvork at least three days a vveek. Those inter­ested should submit a small portfolio their vvork to Chris Donnelly or Marga Bruns by Au­
HP-28S SCIENTIFIC HP-12C FINANCIAL HP-22S SCIENTIFIC HP-178 BUSINESS gust 31. CALCULATOR CALCULATOR CALCULATOR CALCULATOR .; 

---------------------------------------~-­

Wednesday, August 24, 1988
page 16 The Observer 

AP Photo Shawon Dunston and the Chicago Cubs defeated the Houston Astros 9-3 Tuesday behind the hitting of rookie catcher Damon Berryhill. A complete National League roundup is at right. 
NL Roundup 
Cone, Mets stop Dodgers 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-David Cone scattered nine hits over 7 2-3 innings as the New York Mets beat Los Angeles 5-1 Tuesday night for their seventh victory in eight games against the Dodgers this season. 
New York, 5-0 this season in Dodger Stadium, rallied for three runs in the fifth on Mookie Wilson's RBI single, Wally Backman's run-scoring double and Keith Hernandez's sacrifice fly. 
Cone, 13-3, struck out six and walked none. His winning percentage of .813 is the best in the majors and his 2.36 ERA is second in the National League. 
Cubs 9, Astros 3 
CHICAGO -Damon Ber­ryhill's two-run homer and Vance Law's two-run single highlighted a seven-run seventh inning Tuesday night and the Chicago Cubs beat the Houston Astros 9-3. 
With the score . tied 2-2, Chicago had seven hits to fuel its biggest inning of the season. Mark Grace's RBI single broke the tie and Rafael Palmeiro hit a sacrifice fly before Law's single and Berryhill's fifth home run. Mitch Webster's run-scoring single made it 9-2. 
Jamie Moyer, 7-12, gave up 12 hits and three runs, striking out seven in his third complete game. Danny Darwin, 6-10, gave up 11 of Chicago's 16 hits, allowing six runs in six-plus in­nings. 
Pirates 2, Reds 0 
PITTSBURGH Dave LaPoint won his second con­secutive game since his trade to Pittsburgh and Andy Van Slyke hit a two-run homer Tuesday night as the Pirates ended a 25-inning scoreless streak and beat the Cincinnati Reds 2-0. 
LaPoint, 2-0, gave up four hits in 7 2-3 innings, struck out three and walked two. Jim Gott finished with one-hit relief for his 24th save. 
Van Slyke's seventh-inning homer drove in Pittsburgh's first runs since the fourth in­ning of a 2-1, 14-inning loss Sun­day to Houston. 
Rookie left-bander Norm Charlton, 0-2, took the loss. 
Cardinals 7, Braves 0 
ST. LOUIS -Bob Forsch pitched a six-hitter and Tom Brunansky drove in three runs, including two with a first­inning homer, as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Atlanta Braves 7-0 Tuesday night. 
Forsch, 8-4, struck out five, walked two and allowed one runner past second base in first complete game since he shut out Pittsburgh on Aug. 10, 1987. Forsch, who has 19 career shutouts, is 4-2 as a starter this season with victories in four of his last five decisions. 
John Smoltz, 1-4, pitched 12-3 innings and gave up six hits and four runs. Nine of the 14 batters he faced reached base. 
NO awarded North Star title ... again 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame went out of the 
North Star Conference with a 
bang, winning the conference's 
All-Sports Trophy for the third 
time in four seasons. 
The university is leaving the North Star Conference this year to move on to the Midwest Collegiate Conference. 
The Irish took league titles in volleyball and women's tennis this past season to propel them to this year's award. Notre Dame also took second in the conference in women's basket­ball and cross country. The Irish won the award despite not participating in the recently completed softball champion­ships. Notre Dame did not com­pete in softball on the varsity level this past season, but will field a team during the 1989 season. 
The conference's six teams earned 17 points toward the All­Sports Trophy for winning the title in one of the five sports for which the league sponsors a championship. A second-place finish is worth 12 points, third is worth seven points, five p~ints for fourth, four points for fifth, four points for fifth and three points for sixth. The Irish amassed 58 points to 53 for runner-up DePaul. 
In the five-year history of the North Star Conference, Notre Dame has won the award three times. The Irish also took the trophy in the 1984-85 and 1985-86 seasons. 
Notre Dame's men's non­revenue sports competed in the MCC during the 1987-88 season, and will be joined by the Irish women's athletic teams for the 1988-89 campaign. 
Dayton, DePaul, Marquette, Northern Illinois and Val­paraiso were other members of the North Star Conference last year. The MCC now consists of Butler, Dayton, Detroit, Evansville, Marquette, Notre Dame, St. Louis and Xavier. 
............ 
I GET AN EXTRA I
ftad1e lhaeli SALE! Welcome, Students! : 100/o : 
12-129 
Only Weighs 2 Ounces! 
Batteries extra 


==ijii I
~69!! 
Description Cat No EachBatteries extra 
95 l-;;2"'"'s-F,-t.-,.,co~rd::--+--::2=79:-::~3=se:-+.s=-=.9-=-lsStores 200 Reg. 119· Duplex Jack 279-357 4.95 Names/Numbers 
lnline Coupler 279-358 2.49 
Calculator 
39% 
Off 
15!_!. 
Reg. 25.95 
71-Function
Scientific ......____. 
Tape Recorder 
Cut 
40% 
Reg. 49.95 
Voice Batteries extr~ Actuated 
Power Strip 
Six-Outlet 2195 61-2619 
TV/FM Antenna 
15-1816 
Fine Tuning Control 
Scottsdale Mall Shopping Center 4618 West Western Avenue 
1261 Scottsdale  South Bend  
South Bend  287-5544  
291-3018  
52130 US 31 North  
South Bend  
A DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION  277-2040  

Programmable 
1111111111111 
83-Function 
m•IIIICIB
Scientific 
Type II Cassettes 
... 
Cut 340/o 
HD-60 HD-90 
2!! 2?.! 
44·940 44-941 Reg. 3.49 Reg. 4.29 
University Mall 6501 Grape Road Mishawaka 272-8631 
Musical PA Cut 
25% 
32-2030 Batteries extra Reg. 39.95 Plays College Songs 
Car Alarm 
With
7995 
Pager 
49-791 Pager battery extra 
2538 Miracle Lane Mishawaka 
PRICES APPLY AT PARTICIPATING STORES AND DEALERS
255-9949 Wednesday, August 24, 1988 
The Observer page 17 
23. If there's a bunch that can "We've really got a long way do it, this is it." to go. we want to be the best
Heater 
Another key returner from defense in the country; we sure 
NVA sets deadlines
Continued from page 20 
last year's secondary is senior aren't there yet, but we're 
Brandy Wells, who combined for 82 solo tackles and 100 as­sists. Also out of the secondary picture is Pat Eilers, who saw playing time at strong safety but has since been moved to flanker. 
Returning starters are junior Smagala at right cornerback and Streeter. 
Smagala started nine games as a sophomore, getting in on 35 tackles, intercepting one pass and recovering two fumbles. 
Streeter returns for his senior season after starting every game as a junior, getting one interception and breaking up a team-high six passes. 
"The secondary will be more agressivee," Streeter said. "We'll cause more turnovers. We'll have more interceptions than what we had last year. Our goal is to get about 20 to free safety Corny Southall, who split the playing time with Spence. Southall began last season as a starter, but a par­tially torn knee ligament kept him out for four games. He led the team with three intercep­tions, including two against Michigan which both set up touchdowns. 
"One of the big differences in the secondary this year is that we know Coach Heater's philosophy now," Southall said, "which is to do our best at all times, know our assign­ments, and play with intensity. If we're not sure about some­thing, we ask instead of making a mistake. · 
"The hardest part is ths de­manding pace. We work up to a high tempo and stay there all practice. But this year, we'll know how we line up, we'll know how to react, we'll use the speed we have. 
GET THE EDGE ON THE COMPETITION 
CAPT SAM GAGLIO 219-239-6634 
Le.adenhip fJil:ellence Starts Here 
FAMOUS 

SINCE 1987 
EASTERN STYLE 

SUBS 
Whole Wheat or White 
1636 NOBTB IRONWOOD DRIVE SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46635 <219> 271..oSUB FREE DELIVERY OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
11:00 A.M. • 1 :00 A.M. (or later) 
looking pretty good." 
Todd Lyght, playing time in 
all 12 games while backing up 
Spence last season, had one in­
terception and was in on 29 
tackles. Francisco returns to 
try to add to his limited playing 
time behind Smagala, and 
senior Satterfield's hard­
hitting may earn him a back-up 
spot. 
Heater said that the fresh­
men in the defensive backfield 
need a little work before break­
ing into the top eight. 
"We've got some good young 
kids," he said, "but none are 
in the immediate picture. But 
we still have to see how they 
develop.
"Because the defense is less assignment-oriented, we tend to have things together faster," Heater said. "Defense has al­ways beeneasiertoplay. We're moving people around, looking at different people, alternating positions. We have good kids here. The always give a great effort and they respond well to coaching." 
"We can make -things hap­pen," Southall said. "We've got great team unity." 
The following entry dead­lines have been announced by Non-Varsity Athletics for the upcoming fall season: 
Men's Football --August 
31. $40 entry fee to accom­pany roster of no less than 24 players. 
16" softball --August 31. Tourney limited to first 32 teams to enter. Rosters must have a minimum of 15 players. 
Mixed Doubles Tennis ­August 31. One member must sign up at the NVA of­fice. Open to Notre Dame students only. 
Grad-Faculty Tennis -­August 31. Men's and wo­men's singles and mixed doubles. Elimination tour­naments. 
Men's Tennis -August 31. Open division for advanced or experienced players, novice division for those who have not played competi­tively. No telephone entries. 
Women's Tennis --August 
31. Open tourney with no classification of players. No telephone entries. 
---Conducive----
Qiverside North Apartments 1671 Qiverside Drive ~uth Bend 233-2212 
1bedroom w/den slarUf18 al $460.00 
Women's Football August 31. Entry fee of $35 to accompany roster of no less than 15 players. 
Aerobics --Starts August 
31. Register at NVA or at first day of class. Check NVA for schedule details. 
Biathlon--Through Sept. 2. Race takes place on Sept. 3 at St. Joseph Lake Beach. Race consists of a half-mile run and a half-mile swim. 
Hydrobics --Classes begin 
August 31 at Rolf's Aquatic 
Center. "Water aerobics" 
held in two biweekly classes. 
Sign up at NVA. 
Putt Putt Golf September 7. Best ball tour­ney takes place Sunday, Sep­tember 11 at 7:00pm. Teams of two pay $2 per person in advance. 
· Ultimate Frisbee Tourney --September 7. • Ten person minimum on roster. Call NVA for details. 
Stretchercise --Begins Thursday, Sept. 1. Register in advance or at the first ses­sion. Sessions are Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:20­
6:10 pm at ACC Gym 1. 
Scuba Diving Class -­Information meeting Wed­nesday, September 7 at 6:30 pm in Room 218 in the Rockne Building. Five week course. 
Call NVA at 239-6100 or stop by the NVA office in the JACC for more information on these or any other events. 
+ 
.Am.erican 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
Aug 24 Wed  Chicago Trip  -$12.00  
Buses leave main circle at 6:30 PM  
Buy tix at Senior Class Office-2nd  
floor LaFortune-til 5:00PM  
Aug 25 Thurs  Hot Tub Get-Together at Senior  
Alumni Club 7-8:30 PM  
Aug 26 Fri  Elk's Lodge Gathering  
Tunes, Friends, Refreshments  
8PM-1 AM  Buy tix at Senior Class  
Office Wed, Thurs, & Fri,  
Limited Tickets. Buses leave main  
circle at 8PM and will run every 1/2  
hour. (directions can be picked up  
in the office.)  

Aug 27 Sat  Meet at New Buffalo Beach ( not  
the Dunes  -see si  ns for directions  
Aug 28 Sun  ass at  rotto wI Fr. Levie lie 7 PM  
-bring blankets (rain location Knott  
Hall)  


-------, 
r-----------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, August 24, 1988 

BOILDirtG OPErt FOR ACTIVITIES 
Monday-Friday: 7:00 am-11 :00 pm Saturday, Sunday: 10:00 am-11:00 pm 
RECREATIOrtAL SWIMMirtG HOORS 
Monday-Friday: 7:00-9:00 am, 12:00-6:00 pm, 8:00-11:00 pm Saturday: 1:00-6:00 pm, 7:00-11:00 pm Sunday: 1:00-6:00 pm, 7:30-11:00 pm 
FR. LArtCE WEIGHT ROOM (302) 
Monday-Friday: 3:00-10:30 pm Saturday, Sunday: 12:00-9:00 pm 
The Rockne Memorial is available free of charge to ND students, faculty, and managerial staff upon presentation of ID. 
Lockers for rent at Issue Room of Front Desk 
OBSERVER,GRAPHIC/Geoff Sauer 
Musselman to coach NBA's Timberwolves 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Bill Mus­selman, who used to tell the University of Minnesota bas­ketball team that "losing is worse than death," was intro­duced Tuesday as the first head coach of the NBA expansion Minnesota Timberwolves. 
"We wanted a coach with fire in his guts," Timberwolves president Bob Stein said, "and with the ability to be patient to build a young team. We feel we have one. He is an intense com­petitor, one who generates ex­citement." 
Musselman, 48, was signed to a four-year contract at an un­disclosed salary by the Timber­wolves, who begin play in the 1989-90 season. 
While coach at Minnesota, he posted a sign in the locker room reading: "Defeat is worse than death because you have to live with defeat." 
On Tuesday, Musselman showed no sign that his inten­sity and desire to win had waned. 
"If you want to picture the type of team that I feel the Tim­berwolves want and I want, I would say that you could visualize a cold, dark winter night in the state of Minnesota, a pack of timber wolves stalk­ing and waiting for its prey. And the prey -and the opposi­tion -is fearful of what might happen," he said. "World War III will take place. In lighter terms, the prey is in for a tough night and the battle of its life. 
"I will make one commit­ment -the Minnesota Timber­wolves will fight each night like it's their last game." 
Musselman coached Ashland College in Ohio to a 129-30 record from 1965-71 and then, in 1971, became the youngest head coach in Minnesota bas­ketball history. 
New ND alums impress NFL 
Observer Staff Report 
Dead in the middle of those baseball-crazed days of sum­mer, Notre Dame football managed to grab the headlines of papers all over the nation. 
It now appears that the hype behind the Notre Dame name helped to spread these stories. Nonetheless, it was a busy sum­mer both for former Irish 

Steve Beuerleln 
players and for current Irish coaches. 
Tim Brown signed a four­year contract worth more than $2 million with the Los Angeles Raiders. As an unexpected bonus, Brown is catching passes thown by former Irish teammate Steve Beuerlein after the Raiders released quarterbacks Jim Plunkett and Marc Wilson. Beuerlein, who sat out last season with an el­bow injury, is battling Vince Evans for the starting job. 
Another former Irish receiver, Reggie Ward, is opening eyes in Minnesota. Ward, who now goes by Reginald, caught a touchdown pass in each of the first three preseason games for the Vikings. 
Two former Notre Dame of­fensive linemen, center Chuck Lanza and tackle Tom Rehder, have signed contracts with Pit­tsburgh and New England, respectively. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz also made the headlines this sum­mer, though the words were not always favorable. Early in July, LeRoy Gardner, the Uni­versity of Minnesota's chief counselor, drug out the past when he accused Holtz of giving $500 to a Gopher football player. Then The Star and Tribune of Minneapolis quoted former Gopher running back Pudgy Abercrombie as saying he received money from assis­tant coach Jim Strong, who is now a member of Holtz's staff at Notre Dame. 
The controversy died a week later when Abercrombie denied ever receiving cash from Strong, and Holtz and Strong both strongly denied ever doing anything of the sort. Holtz also denied Gardner's charges, but Gardner stands by his story. 
More controvery brew in South Bend when a local tele­vision sportscaster reported 
Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
that Irish quarterback Tony Rice would be academically in­eligible for the 1988 season. But the registrar's office noted that Rice actually had done very well in his summer classes, and WSBT's Mitch Hinck resigned in embarrassment. The Notre Dame near­comeback story of the summer involved former Irish split end Alvin Miller. Injuries plagued the 1982 Parade Hilgh School 
Reginald Ward 
Player of the Year throughout his college football career, which ended amid an agent payoff controversy. 
But Miller did not give up. He graduated last spring from Notre Dame and the Buffalo Bills invited him to training camp. 
A few weeks later, however, the Bills released Mmer, but he still has not given up his dream. Miller signed with the St. Louis Gamblers, a semi-pro team. 

Rocco's Restaurant Welcome back students and parents 
South Bend's "Original Pizza" and a tradition with students 
Only a few blocks from campus Families welcome We serve the best in Italian and American Cuisine try us and You'll agree 
537 St. Louis Blvd. 233-2464 Closed Sunday & Monday 


,., •WAREHOUSE SA.tE• 
GALLAGHER'S. CARPETS 
Quality carpet at low low PJices. Many styles and cOlors to choose from. Remnants, roll ends and lui rolls. Prices start at 14.00 per yd. to '1 0.00. Save money, stop and check our warehouse out before Y.OU buy. 
683·8800 
.iii ;;;;;. .....;;._ ...;::..=: ... 
Located at 2428 U.S. 31 Niles, Mi. 
=======-:-::·;·~~~~~-~~:·:..--11!!= .>
= ---..--..
~--~~~-= 11"" 
Open Mon. tllru Sat. 9 IllS# 
Leadership fJ«:eJJence Starts Here 
Bring yoar student I.D. fflr IS IJFF ttJtal purcllase I 
.........---~---~ 
-----------------~~~-~-~---.~~~-----~--~--~----~......---~--, 
Wednesday, August 24, 1988 
The Observer page 19 
DINNER MENUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD ~ 
Notre Dame 
Thin Steak Sandwich Roasted Turkey Breast Batter Fried Perch Cheese Stuffed Pepper 
ACROSS 
----22 Words of
Saint Mary's 
understanding
1 What a derby 
23 Joel C.
tops 
Harris's­
Roast Beef with Au Jus 
5 Guipure and 
Rabbit
malines
Egg Rolls 
24 Wander 
10 Dorothy's dog 
Stuffed Potato Copenhagen 
26 Prepared for a
14 Portico
Deli Bar 
premiere
15 Mosaic 16 Yeses, in 31 N.H.L. champs Rouen 33 German canal 17 Oilskin 34 In favor of 
headgear 35 Cptr., e.g. 19 Egyptian god 36 More frigid of creation 38 Duo 
20 Adjective for a 39 Shade tree Texan's 40 Contest headgear 41 Short and solid 
COMICS 
21 Place to see 43 Certain race
The Far Sl!ie Gary Larson 

tall headgear horses 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZlLE 



"Sol Planning on roaming the neighborhood with some of your buddies today?" 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

RUMBLE
RUMBLI 
( 



Riding the creel of contemporary crafts in America featuring the work of more than 70 artists and craftspeople from around the Unlled Stales. 
• JEWELRY • HAND BLOWN GLASS • WOOD • POTTERY • ART fine art posters 
Tuesday lhru Saturday-10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. Thursday till 8:00 p.m. 514 Llncolnway East Mishawaka 255-9191 
0 0 I 0 0-f I
. '.' -:t'. 

46 Enclosed space 47 Dickens 
heroine 48 Prepare to travel 50 Military headdress 52 Bridge necessities 57 Hebrew 
measure 58 Auditory 59Coupd'­60 Rope 61 Austen novel 62 Observe 63 "You used to 
come­o'clock ..." 64 Appear 
DOWN I Attention-getting sound 2 An Amerind 3 Lad, in Ayr 4 Legislator 
13 Fed. work-29 Violinist 45 Married one 
5 Cotton thread place agency Morini 49 A felony 6 Chapeau rack, 18 Facilitator 
30 Fishing boat 50"We've­
sometimes 21 Spoken 31 Mind had!" 7 Singer Laine 23 Bock and 
32 Signet 51 As far as 
8 Merit kvass 
37 Swindle 52 Shoo! 9 RR org. 24 Moon valley 38 Low, flattop 53 Expense 10 Formal 25 "Please to put headgear 54 Peak head wear a penn~ _in the 40 Friend in a 55 Christie or 
II Astronaut's 
fray Hess milieu 27 Stretching the 42 Musical 56 Bridge feat 
12 Headdress: 
budget "Ssh!" 58 In the manner 
Var. 
28 Speed 44 Discount of 
"Hey! You wanna kick me? Go aheadl C'mon, tough guy! Cat got your tongue? Maybe he took your whole bralnl ... C'monl Kick mel" 


-
j
·IIIII 
~---~~~~-----_------=~~------­
Sports 
VVednesday, August24, 1988
pag_e 20 
Irish rebound from the summertime blues 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Plenty of negative things happened to the Notre Dame offense away from the field before practices started a couple weeks ago. 
But now that some better things are happening on the field, the losses of this past summer are being erased by visions of what the fall may hold. 
First the summer news: 
Jeff Pearson, who would have been the only returning starter on the offensive line at guard, withdrew from the University for personal reasons. 
Pierre Martin and Bobby Carpenter, the top two candi­dates for the open split end job, also left Notre Dame after be­coming academically in­eligible. 
But the Irish offense, after scoring only two touchdowns in Saturday's opening scrimmage (one was against the third­string defense), is beginning to put some of the pieces back into place. 
The biggest piece is junior first-team quarterback Tony Rice. 
"He's throwing the ball well," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "He's improved over last year, and he's getting better every time out." 
Although the offense sput­tered in the scrimmage, Rice was 8-of-11 passing. Holtz said the key now is for Rice to remain consistent. 
The split end problem might be solved with sheer speed. Freshman Raghib "Rocket" Ismail from Wilkes-Barre, Pa., was moved from running back to split end his first day of prac­tice. He never played receiver in high school. 
But Ismail, who was clocked at 4.28 seconds when he ran the 40-yard dash in fall drills, already has shown that not many defenders can stay with him. He broke loose for two long touchdown passes from Rice in 7-on-7 drills Monday and has been catching the ball better and better each time out. 
The first-team offensive line for the early workouts has con­sisted of senior Andy Heck and junior Dean Brown at tackles, junior Tim Grunhard and soph­omore Winston Sandri at guards and sophomore Mike Heldt at center. Holtz said there are still some problems in the middle, but added that the tackles are making good progress. 
Sophomore Ricky Watters gets the nod to replace Tim Brown at flanker, while sopho­more Frank Jacobs has been starting at tight end. Freshman Derek Brown, Parade Maga­zine's high school player of the year as a prep senior, has been impressive at tight end as well. Brown led all receivers with four receptions in the scrim­mage. 
The Irish backfield, called the best in the nation by The Sporting News, has the return­ing talents of senior Mark Green and sophomore Tony Brooks at tailback, and juniors Braxston Banks and Anthony Johnson at fullback. 
And while Holtz said he was disappointed in the perfor­mance of the receivers and the backs in the opening scrim­mage, both units have came back with solid practices since then. 
"We've got a long way to go," Holtz said. "But we're making some progress." 
EXTRA POINTS: The Irish survived two-a-days with only minor injuries, hitting the de­fensive line the hardest. 
DB's are confident as season nears ... 
. . . but Heater is not quite so excited 
By THERESA KELLY Heater is not so quick to dish Assistant Sports Editor out the praise. "We're still looking for the If you ask George Streeter, right combination," Heater the 1988 Notre Dame defensive said. "We've had some break­backfield shouldn't have any downs and some mistakes, and problem stopping opposing of­I don't think we're as far ahead fenses. as people might think at this For example: time." Senior D'Juan Francisco INSIDE SPORTS "he's gotten a lot better," 
Irish In NFL .............. page 18
Streeter, a senior strong safety said. 
AP, UPI polls ........... page 14
"Stan Smagala is playing su­perb," he said. "(Sophomore) First-year coach Heater has Todd Lyght is playing like an to deal with a few losses, but upperclassman, Bob Satter­the returnees, plus Terrell's field and Pat Terrell are switch from split end, will give playing really well and will the Irish a secondary with help us out a lot, David Jandric game experience. Lost to is a great hitter Corny Southall graduation from the 1987 defen­is the same all-star he was last sive backfield are free safety year. The secondary has gotten Marv Spence and cornerback a whole lot better." 
see HEATER, page 17
Secondarv coach Chuck 
Special to the Observer Albemarle (Va.) High Schoolin I think we can make up that 1982. He is the son of former difference and make it to the 
Kevin Corrigan, as assistant Notre Dame athletic director NCAAs. coach at Virginia the last two Gene Corrigan, who currently "I think we can generate in­years, has been named Notre serves as the commissioner of terest in the sport in this area Dame's new lacrosse coach. the Atlantic Coast Conference, and there's no doubt that we'll Corrigan takes over as only the "I don't think there's another be able to attract the better second heaQ coach in the pro­school in the country that can players because of the educa­gram's history after Rich come close to approaching the tion the University has to offer. O'Leary resigned the position facilities that Notre Dame has I don't know of any other school to devote full time to his role to build a successful lacrosse that offers its students the op­as assistant director of non­program," Corrigan says. portunity to develop intellec­varsity athletics. "The Loftus Sports Center of­tually, spiritually and physi­
A Virginia graduate, Cor­fers us an indoor facility for off­cally as well as Notre Dame." rigan assisted the Cavaliers season training in addition to during both the 1987 and 1988 indoor play. At 5,000 seats, O'Leary served as the coach seasons under head coach Jim Krause Stadium is perfect for for all 18 years of the pro­"Ace" Adams. Last year Vir­the sport and Cartier Field is gram's existence --the last ginia compiled a 9-5 record and ideal for an outdoor artificial eight as a varsity sport--before reached the semi-finals of the turf field. resigning. His record was 143­NCAA championships before "Our immediate goal is to get 87 (.621), including a 63-42 losing to Johns Hopkins in over­the Midwest region's bid to the (.600) varsity record. time. NCAA tournament and I
-
Notre Dame will be Cor­believe that's achievable," "There's nothing I've en­rigan's second stint as a head says Corrigan, a 29-year old na­joyed more at Notre Dame than coach. He directed Randolph­tive of Charlottesville, Va. coaching lacrosse," O'Leary Macon College (Va.), a Divi­"The fact that the NCAA says. "But, the program needs sion III program, to a 10-14 lacrosse committee awarded a someone who can devote more record from 1985-86. He previ­bid to the Midwest is a real time --especially in the recruit­ously served as an assistant at bonus for a program like ours. ing area --·to help the players Randolph-Macon during the Two years ago, Notre Dame reach the goals they have. 
Academic All-American John Olmstead and the Notre Dame lacrosse 
1984 season. came within one game of going 
team will be playing for a new coach this season In Kevin Corrigan. Corrigan also served as an to the tournament. That's kind "I'll miss it, but it's the right The former University of VIrginia assistant coach is the son of assistant at Notre Dame during of been a secret around here, move for me and the lacrosse former Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan. the 1983 season and at Western but I think we can change that. program." 









