
------------~--------------~---­
Chill out
/ACCENT: Hockney exhibits 'real' photos 
Windy and much cooler Wed-, 
nesday with a 50 percent 
chance of showers during the 
morning. High in the mid 50s.
IVIEWPOINT: New Jersey: hardly Hell 

VOL. XXI, NO. 116 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Task forces release recommendations 
The Observer I Usa D'Anzl 

By CHRIS MURPHY Editor-in-Chief 
The reports of four Notre Dame task forces have been completed and are ex­pected to be distributed to the campus community today, according to Rich­ard Conklin, director of public relations and information. 
TASK FORCE REPORTS see pages 4-5 
The task forces have studied four aspects of University life: 
• 
Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol 

• 
Residentiality 

• 
Marriage, Family and Other Life Commitments 

• 
The Quality of Teaching in a Research University. 


The reports concerning marriage and teaching were not available at press time. 
The reports of the task forces are only recommendations and not binding. The reports have been presented to Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy, Provost Timothy O'Meara and Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson. 
Malloy requested in the opening let­ter accompanying the reports that stu­dents direct comments to the adminis­tator to whom the report was directed. 
Malloy, O'Meara and Tyson ap­pointed students, faculty and staff to the task forces last May. 
sure some of the students are
A couple pauses for a moment on the bank of St. Mary's Lake. In spring, 
going to be surprised (by the
the lakes are often surrounded by students taking advantage of the warm 
The health task force concerned itself with five major areas in its report. Its goals were to face "significant areas of concern," including a high propor­tion of Notre Dame students who drink excessively, the consumption of alcohol on football weekends, the level of drink­ing at alumni reunions, the University's responsiblility to uphold state laws and "the axiom that without alcohol there is no social life." 
Whole Health and the Use and Abuse 
of Alcohol Task Force head and Direc­
tor of the University Counseling Center 
Patrick Utz was satisfied with the ef­
forts of the task force. 

"Overall, I am pleased with the work. In some areas, there were some strong disagreements obviously. But that is part and parcel of university life," Utz said. 
Utz emphasized two things students should remember when reading the reports. First, the recommendations were for the whole Notre Dame com­munity, and not just directed at the stu­dent body. Second, the task force's directive was not to write a set of rules. Instead, the directive was to set up pos­itive educational programs and social alternatives. 
The residentiality task force focused on the "quality, sufficiency and vari­ety" of living facilities. Other areas of concern in the report were student con­duct in the dorms, the selection process for rectors and resident assistants and the "relationship between 
see TASK, page 4 
, Shriver awarded Laetare medal · for work on Special Olympics 
By KATIE KEARNEY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Eunice Kennedy Shriver, founder and chairman of Spe­cial Olympics International, will be awarded the 1988 Laetare Medal during the Uni­versity's commencement ceremonies May 15, according to Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., president of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
The Laetare Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor, is widely considered the most 

HPC directs student 
By DAN MURPHY Staff Reporter 
Task force reports on alcohol and residentiality, which were confidentially distributed to the HPC last week, will appear in student mailboxes today, ac­cording to Student Body Pres­ident Tom Doyle. 
The HPC received the reports early "to prevent a rumor mill," Doyle said at Tuesday's HPC meeting. "I'm 
~lniurrsi!!_! of ;Nu!rc :!J)mue 
~1.1lr~ ~umr, ~n()iuuu 46556 
<OUin of l~t Jhr•U~rnl 

Apr I I ,  1988  
Dear MeA Timothy  mbers of year ago O'Meara  the four and  Notre Dame Community, Tas~ Forces were appointed by Father David T. Tyson,  by me, C.S.C.,  by VIce  Provost Presi­ 

dent for Student Affairs. They were to examine four Important 
areas of University life: 

Marriage, Faml ly and Other Life Commitments 
Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol 
The Quality of Teaching In a Research University 
Resident Ia! lty 

I share these studies with you In this special edition of the Notre Dame Report. They are Important reading for anyone con­cerned about our I lvlng-and-learnlng community. It Is now the task of myself, Provost O'Meara and Father Tyson to consider care­fully the recommendations made In light of resources. available to Implement them. In determining priorities. we should be grateful for your reactions. Kindly direct your comments to the person to whom the report was made. 
In closing I should like to cor,mend the Committees for their excel lent work. Many hours--hours that could be spent much more pleasantly--go Into this sort of Committee work, resulting In a kind of camaraderie of discursiveness. The larger community Is In ,your debt !~r the thoughtfulness with which you performed your
service. 

Again, I encourage your own reactions to the reports. 
Cordially, 
~a.~JL.IC 
(Rev.) Edward A. 0Mal ;gy, C.S.C. President 
prestigious award given to American Catholics. 
In announcing the award, Fa­ther Malloy said, "Inscribed on each Laetare Medal is the slogan, 'Truth is mighty and will prevail.' Last summer, while hosting the International Special Olympics, the Notre Dame community saw anew an ancient Christian truth : Christ comes most often in the stranger's guise. By commend­ing Mrs. Shriver, the chief ar­chitect of that celebration, we emphasize our gratitude to all the Special Olympians for 
reports) , and there will be some strong response to it,'' he said. 
"We feel it's our job as stu­dent government to head up the response," said Doyle. '~It's important that we respond in a legitimate manner. If Mike (Paese, student body vice pres­ident) and I felt that the best way to show the administration how we feel was to storm the administration building, then that's what we would've done. Something like that, I think, bearing that truth and our faith that their special witness to it will indeed prevail." 
Father Malloy explained that "each year we look for an out­standing Catholic leader to honor. There are a lot of good Catholics out there," he said, "but we narrow it down to one who has dedicated their life in a specific area of service or ac­tivity." 
"We recognize Mrs. Shriver for her lifetime commitment to service and particularly her 
see LAETARE, page 9 


reponse 

would just be considered adolescent." 
Doyle said task forces will go to each dorm to hear student response one week to 10 days after the report's release. A transcription from each meeting will be sent to Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy, who will be invited to attend all meetings, according to Doyle. 
The reports also address marriage and family and 
see HPC, page 3 

Love Is In the air 
temperatures. 

Wednesday, April 6, 1988


Of Interest 
.Kepresentative John Hilerwillspeakon''Election '88" to all interested people and members of the College Republicans tonight at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. -The Observer 
University Counseling Center is presenting the first of a two part workshop titled "Women and Careers." The first workshop will be tonight from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Sorin Room in LaFortune. Tonight's workshop will focus on women and career decisions. Next week's workshop will focus on balancing family and career. -The Observer 
Italian Culture Week presents Giovanna Sanduskey lecturing on contemporary Italian art today at 4 p.m. in the media center of the SMC library. -The Observer 
"Where Are You In Your Job Search" will be the topic of a workshop for graduating students scheduled for tonight at 6:30 in 119 O'Shaughnessy. Jeff Rice assistant director of Career and Placement Services, win discuss strategies to help secure that "elusive" job. -The Observer 
ChannelPost-GradVolunteerProgramrepresentativeE Scott Connelly (Notre Dame '87) and Mary Ann Van Tassel (St. Mary's '87) will be available to talk to students today from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Library concourse and from 1 to 4 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee Tournament sign-ups will be tonight at 7 in the An Tostal office in 307 LaFortune. Teams must have 10 members, and there is a 20 team limit. -The Observer 
Foreign policy debate will be held tonight in the Hesburgh Library auditorium at 7. The campaign managers from the Mock National Convention will answer questions from panelists Dr. John Gilligan, director of the Institute for International Peace Studies and from Dr. Michael Francis of the government department. State delegates are urged to attend, and the public is welcome. 
-The Observer 

IEEE members interested in being officers next year please contact Bill McCarthy at 1150 or Jill Lennert at 3033 by Friday, April 8. -The Observer 
New Jersey delegates to the Mock Convention will meet in Room 1000 in the Hesburgh Library at 6:30p.m. Thursday. For more information call Mark at 272-7497. 
-The Observer 
Class of '89 is reminded to turn in senior trip surveys 
to the Student Activities office in 315 LaFortune or 103 
Haggar. -The Observer 
Mock MCAT will be held Saturday, April9, at 8 a.m. in Rooms 123 and 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. AED will sponsor the full exam plus essay. Sign up with Mrs. Filbert in 239 Nieuwland. -The Observer 
"Beyond Fear" is the film on AIDS that will be shown tonight at 7:30 in the basement of Farley Hall. Farley and Zahm halls are hosting the film, and discussion will follow afterward. -The Observer 

"Shutting the Door to College: The Decline of Minority and Low Income Students in the 1980s" is the title of a lecture by Professor Gary Orfield from the Uni­ver~ity of Chicago. The lecture is scheduled for Thursday, April 7, at 8 p.m. in the Galvin Life Science Center auditorium. -The Observer 
Sen. Pete Domenici has cancelled his lecture due 
to pressing Senate business. The lecture was scheduled 
for Sunday, April 10. -The Observer 

Knights of Columbus open house will be tonight between 7 and 10. Interviews for membership will be given. 
-The Observer 


Design Editor ..................... Rob Luxem Sports Copy Editor............... Pete Skiko Design Assistant .. .. .. .. Annette Rowland Viewpoint Layout .............. Laura Manzi Typesetters... . Paul Brauweiler Accent Copy Editor ........ Susan Buckley ......................................... Andy Schlidt Accent Layout. .. .......... Kathy Gliwa News Editor... . Liz Panzica ND Day Editor ............... Carrie McCall Copy Editor .................... Michelle Dall Photographer ..................... Lisa D' Anzi 
Till Ollelner (USPS S99 2~) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Till Ot.ner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Till ot.er.er, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Till Obelner is a member of Till .u.odaled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Without the Easter Bunny, we're all basket cases 
Easter may be over, but the Easter Bunny 

remains a mystery. A popular icon of our egg­coloring culture. A creature that is at once cute and cuddly and somehow able to provide mil­lions with baskets aplenty on Easter morning. But why do we attribute Easter benevolence to a bunny? 
The answer is, why not? A rabbit is as good a symbol as any other for a holiday com­memorating the resurrection of Christ. A bird or a fish might suffice, but they lack the natural charm of a soft, swift and taciturn bunny. 
For one thing, rabbits are remarkably able to multiply. It seems appropriate they should stand for a "new life." It's no coincidence that most Easter candy comes in the shape of an egg. An egg is the symbol of life. Easter, in case we forget, celebrates new life, too. All right, you're probably wondering what mam­mals have to do with eggs. Biologically speak­ing, well, nothing really. 
Easter baskets (and their bearer) symbolize a gathering or harvest of souls. Eggs represent life, precious and fragile, needful of care and nurture. We are all eggs in the Easter basket of life. We would do well to take a tip from the ubiquitous Bunny: be careful, life lasts only as long as it is cared for. Know what happens to leftover Easter candy? It gets stale, of course. But most importantly, it loses its taste, and what good is it then? It's a lot like the oarable of the salt going flat. Good for nothing but to throw it out and trample on it. 
There's enough trampling going on in the world today -people's rights, human dignity and morality are all getting trampled to death. The Easter Bunny, however, remains a figure worthy of emulation: pure, gentle, soft-spoken and soft-footed, a bearer of life and love. . The Easter Bunny has brought Easter eggs, Jelly beans and other confections to children (an~ ad';llts) as fa~ back as I can trace my family hneage. This annual act of kindness after 40 long Lenten days is appreciated by everybody I've ever known who experienced it. And well it should be -benevolence is becom­ing increasingly rare today. 
Everyday we hear reports of violence in Nor­thern Ireland, South Mrica, Central America and, as always, Palestine, the very land which gave us Easter. What we all need a bit more of is peace. Corny as it may sound, the Easter 

...................ii~·~~~·8;~·;;d'~~................. ll Observer classifieds will 
Regis . Coccia 
. 
News Editor 
.
€ 
MLB 
Bunny gives a reason to believe we can have peace. Now, jelly beans and chocolate-covered marshmallow eggs don't do a whole lot to stop bullets and artillery shells, but they do show us that somebody still cares about us. 
.Who hasn't experienced a deep feeling of hap­pmess on Easter morning? The same goes for Christmas and the gifts Santa brings. Like Christm.as, ~aster is celebrated throughout the world, m different ways by very different peoples, but celebrated nonetheless. It's up to us to recreate this happiness in the world. We don't really need an Easter Bunny or a Santa Claus, but until we can replace them with our­selves, there will never be true peace in the world. 
Easter is a time of resurrection and joy. Until we resurrect ourselves from the evils in the world today, we will never experience the joy that comes with the Goodness of the Easter Bunny. 
be accepted from 

ll 
Today IS Laura S.'s birthday Call her up · • and WISh her a happy one By the way 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer Offices, 314 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaFortun 

on pool tables tonight e. 
Question: How do you reach over 12 000 people daily? ' . · 
Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. ·· 

TICKET INFORMATION: 
St·ssiun I $7.011 .\II St·!oo~itua l'u.,., Sl:..! 1111 St•ssion II $1.UO Sluth•ul I h:o.t·uunl S:..!.tlll ... , . ., .. "'" St•ssion Ill $;)_110 Stuclt·ul l'a.... Sllliltl 
4;roup •·atl's availahh· upon t't'tltH"sl lu•fun· 1lu; ft· ... lt\ .al ",.,.l..,·tHI. 
Call 2 -7757 

Wednesday, April 6, 1988 The Observer page 3 


Police allotments to catch drunk drivers cut locally 
By CHRIS JULKA driving programs will actually to deal with the backlog of Force to Reduce Drunk originally expected, according Senior Staff Reporter increase. cases, said Michael Barnes, St. Driving. to Rakow. The reduction occurred be­Joseph County prosecutor. Still, Barnes and Cook ac­Budget cuts may take a bite cause the federal government Barnes conceded that, be­knowledged that the cutbacks Yet, because this is the first 
out of law enforcement against has delayed funding to the cause of the funding cuts for will make future enforcement time the University will drunk drivers in St. Joseph and states in its attempts to control local police departments, "the against DUI more difficult. receive any such grant, the Elkhart counties. the national deficit, according number of apprehensions may "Studies have shown that as amount is still "$2,100 more 
Reduced funding for anti­to Smith. 
go down." funding for enforcement goes th~n we had last year,'' Rakowdrunk driving programs was The lack of new funds means Still, he insisted this does not down, traffic fatalities and ac­said. announced Tuesday in a press Indiana had to make tough mean the commitment to en­cidents will go up," said Bar­conference by Michael Smith, choices. "We realized that forcement is being abandoned. bara Noser, regional coordina­Rakow said the increase in director of Indiana's Division major cutbacks had to be "I don't see arrest figures fal­tor of the Governor's Task funds to combat drunk driving of Traffic Safety at the Morris made," Smith said. ling over the edge," he said. Force. does not imply Notre Dame Se­
Inn. After prioritizing St. Joseph Barnes pointed out that St. Despite the cuts overall, curity has decided to step upand Elkhart counties' various Joseph and Elkhart counties however, Notre Dame Security enforcement against students. 
St. Joseph and Elkhart programs, state and local gov­will still devote over $35,000 to will actually experience an in­"Typically, the offenders we counties will receive a total ernment decided to give top enforcement against DUI, add­crease in funding. For the first apprehend in the area we pa­grant of $137,250 for their com­funding priority to ing that many neighborhood time, Notre Dame Security will trol are not Notre Dame stu­bined DUI program this year, prosecutorial and judicial pro­anti-drunk driving programs receive state allocated federal dents," he said. Smith said. This amount is grams, according to Smith. will also continue. money to fund its own educa­down from last year's grant of This means that the level of Much of previous funding tional and enforcement pro­Despite the new influx of $170,000t and $80,000 less than funding earmarked for en­was also devoted toward train­grams against drunk driving. ~unds for Notre Dame Security, originally anticipated. forcement in these counties ing officers, who should now be The amount of the grant is m general anti-drunk driving
On the other hand, despite will decrease. more adept at combatting $2,097. programs throughout the state these cuts, funds for Notre Prosecutorial agencies need drunk driving, said Patti Cook, The figure is much lower are undergoing reductions in Dame Security's anti-drunk the top funding priority in order director of the Governor's Task than the $8,000 Notre Dame had their budgets, said Smith. 
Alumni-Senior Club chosen as site for 



Fighting Drug Abuse
Governor's alcohol education program 

WHAT OTHERS ARE DOING • HOW YOU CAN HELP 
By NATASHA WILSON held each day at the Alumni­vitations for the ses~:ions to 
SYLVESTER STALLONE JOINS TEAMSTERS 
Senior Club from April 26-28. 3,000 alcoholic beverage per­
Senior Staff Reporter 
During each two hour ses­mit holders in the eight target IN CRUSADE FOR DRUG-FREE AMERICA The Alumni-Senior Club will sion, an Excise policeman and areas. host six training sessions in late a Governor's Task Force mem­The other locations include April for servers and sellers of ber will address several topics, Marion County, Monroe alcoholic beverages in St. including recognizing In­County, Vanderburgh County, Joseph County as part of a diana's state-issued identifica­Vigo County, Delaware statewide plan. tions, identifying signs of in­County, Allen County and Tip­The sessions are part of a ser­toxication, dealing with the pecanoe County. ver training and designated intoxicated customer, liability The invitations ask the per­driver program co-sponsored issues and managers' and ser­mit holders to invite their by the Governor's Task Force vers' legal responsibilities, employees to the training pro­to Reduce Drunk Driving and said Sanders. grams, Cook said. the Indiana State Excise Rex Rakow, director of Notre Both Cook and Sanders agree Police. Dame Security, said he recom­that this new training program Patti Cook, director of the mended the Alumni-Senior is quite unique. Governor's Task Force and Club as a site for the training "Training has been provided Philip Sanders, superintendent sessions because it has ade­throughout the state in the of the Excise Police, an­quate space for the 100 people past; however, we have begun Sylvester Stallone expects fective in reaching out to nounced the plans for the pro­expected to attend each ses­to reach into the local commun­to be a knock-out in his role America's youth. In his gram during a press confer­sion. ities," Cook said. of spokesman for the Team­pledge to support the union ster Crusade for a Drug-Free crusade, Stallone said he
ence last Wednesday at the Rakow is also the Governor's Sanders added, "I know of no 
America. The Stallone-Team­would work to build a broad
Alumni-Senior Club. Task Force chairman for St. other state that has offered 
ster coalition against drugs is anti-drug coalition between
Joseph and Elkart Counties. such a program. Our intention encouraging news for par­the Teamsters Union and the 
Servers and student St. Joseph County is one of is to offer this seminar free to ents, educators and other citi­Hollywood community. managers of the Alumni-Senior the eight target areas selected every server or seller before zens concerned about drug Club will also participate in the for the kick-off of the project. the end of 1988, whether they abuse in America. Here's Other aspects of the Cru­
why. sade include a Teamster Med­
the training sessions, said When choosing an area, the be affiliated with a package 
According to Teamster Pres­ical Advisory Committee
Larry Briggs, the club's gen­task force reviews violations store, tavern, restaurant, 
ident Jackie Presser, "Drug panel to come up with recom­
eral manager. and alcohol related car acci­grocery, supermarket, hotel or abuse will only be defeated mendations on drug rehabili­
"By making free training dents and fatalities in the drug store." when every home, school and tation and drug testing available throughout Indiana county, said Cook. In addition to the training, workplace is enlisted in the policies and plans for a na­for those who serve and sell al­She added that many of the the seminar participants will struggle." The Teamsters tional Teamster fund raising 
have union locals in every campaign for drug research
coholic beverages, the Gover­selected locations are "college receive posters, decals and 
county and state and are in a and rehabilitation programs.
nor's Task Force and the Ex­towns (where) you have an pamphlets promoting respon­
good position to lead an In summing up the program's
cise Police offer a unique overabundance of underage sible drinking and designated awareness campaign against goals, Presser states, "Noth­approach to reducing drunk drinking and, more than likely, drivers. the dangers of drugs. With ing is more important than to driving in our state," Cook a number of minors' viola­Cook said she hopes the par­Stallone as spokesperson, the help young Americans, in 
said. tions." ticipants will distribute those multi-media campaign can be particular, avoid the pitfall of expected to be especially ef-drug abuse."
Two training sessions will be The Task Force mailed in-materials to their customers. 

our education will not end with graduation. As a grad· uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hosp1tal, Y.ou wr!l receive a comprehensive twelve-week long onentat1on where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation. you will have the challe~ges and the growth opportunities that a world-class med1cal center can provide. 
Spring gra1uates apply now for positio~s available 
in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attract1ve benefit 
package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo 
Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose 
growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital. Personnel Services, 
Nursing Recruitment Section. 201 West Center Street, 
Rochester. MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
Rochester Methodist Hos2ital 
A MAYO 1-'lUNilATION ltOSI'ITAI. 
An Equal Opporlunity Employer 
sensitive issues. He expects a hall government elections. good turnout at the individual "Hall elections are really
HPC 
dorm meetings and said, "This sporadic. It makes the most 
continued from page 1 is the time for people to vo­sense if everybody gets their teaching at Notre Dame, but calize what they feel." presidents at the same time, so Doyle said the recommen-Turning to other business, there would be a smooth transi­
the HPC unanimously accepted tion from year to year," saiddations concerning alcohol and 
residentiality are the most a proposition to standardize St. Edward's Hall President 
1Unighh• of <fnluntbll!' 

. Notre Dame's only Fraternity 
lS having an open house. Free Food & Drinks -Interviews April 6, 1988 Wednesday 7-1 0 
Jeff Dorschner. 

The proposition recommends that each dorm hold elections for pesident, vice president, treasurer and secretary some­time during March. Newly elected presidents would offi­cially assume office April 1. 
15 boats will compete in the Fisher Regatta Saturday at 
12:30 p.m., according to Fisher Hall President Jay Farraher. So far, Pasquerilla East is the only women's dorm entered in the contest. Zeto and the Heat­ons will play before the race, said Farraher. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIETYIt 

TASK FORCE ON WHOLE HEALTH
Alcohol task force offers 


changes in current policy 
students could still get together  Ward said the task force tried  
By JIM RILEY  and donate money to purchase  "to take the focus away from  
Senior Staff Reporter  alcohol for consumption at hall  alcohol and put it on something  
events. "Then the University  else." The report listed possi­ 
The Task Force on Whole  isn't considered 'liable'," said  bilities for both short and long­ 
Health and the Use and Abuse  Ward.  term social alternatives. For  
of Alcohol has returned a  "It's not that you can't have  example, in the short-term,  
report which includes many  alcohol," Ward said, "just that  hours and availability of  
recommendations, including a  the University can't provide  recreational facilities, LaFor­ 
limitation on the alcohol pro­ it."  tune Student Center and the  
vided by the University at  "If individuals invite people  Alumni-Senior Club would be  
SYRs, a change in the Univer­ into their rooms for drinks,  extended.  
sity's policy toward tailgaters  that's up to them," said utz.  In the long-term, the Univer­ 
and proposals for enhancing so­ Six members of the task  sity would build a major per­ 
cial alternatives for students.  force signed a minority recom­ forming arts center and inves­ 
University President Father  mendation, which encouraged  tigate the possibility of  
Edward Malloy will be review­ that "the general policy  developing a commercial cen­ 
ing the recommendations, none  governing alcohol use in the  ter in the area surrounding  
of which are currently binding.  residence hall should be consis­ campus. The report suggested  
"We were not defining alco­ tently enforced at all times, in­ the inclusion of shops, restau­ 
hol abuse as a student problem,  cluding such social events as  rants, movie theaters, 'night  
but rather as a Notre Dame  all-hall parties." The report  clubs and pubs.  
problem," said Patrick utz,  said this would include enforce­ Newton said commercial es­ 
chair of the task force and  ment of the ban on open con­ tablishments currently cannot  
director of the University  tainers being carried in hal­ locate very near to students be­ 
Counseling Center. The 16­ lways.  cause the University owns so  
member task force of Notre  A second minority report ad­ much of the land surrounding 
Dame community members in­ dresses tailgaters. The Univer­ campus. The ideal model would  
cluded five students.  sity currently allows public  be Harvard Square. "There's  
The committee's report  consumption of alcohol at  things going on all the time  
focuses on the need to de­ tailgaters, which is an excep­ there," said Newton.  

PROGRAM RECOMMENDATIONS: 
• 
Require a credit course for freshmen in alcohol education. 

• 
Begin a wellness program to address the spiritual, vocational, physical, intellectual, social and emotional needs of all community members. 


POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS: 
• 
Stop residence halls providing alcoholic beverages for all-hall semi-formal parties. 

• 
Develop "dry" sections or floors in some residence halls. 

• 
Enforce existing regulations more strongly during football weekends. 

• 
Prohibit scheduling evening home football games. 


SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES: 
• 
Increase availability of campus sports facilities. 

• 
Extend hours of LaFortune Student Center and Alumni Senior Club. 

• 
Construct a major performing arts center for concerts, plays, and first-run movies. 

• 
Examine the possibility of developing a com.nlercial complex adjacent to campus including shops, restaurants, night clubs, and pubs. 


emphasize the role played by  tion to its policy banning public  He said such a mini-mall is  Notre Dame, Willis said. But  said Utz. "But the environment  
alcohol in the University com­ consumption  of  alcohol  on  needed because Notre Dame is  society now considers drunken­ should  not  be  a  coercion  to  
munity and the need to develop  campus. The report suggests  so  self-contained and "in its  ness wrong in and of itself, not  drink."  
positive alternatives to current  doing away with the exception.  own world."  just  because  of  its  conse­ 
social life  so  that alcohol  no  Newton said this would allow  Vince  Willis,  student  task  quences, he said.  Malloy has actively sought 
longer plays  a  primary role,  the University to enforce the  force member and member of  "We should make people feel  student input in this area, and  
said  Steve  Newton,  special  policy  when the  behavior of  BACCHUS, a national student  that if they choose to drink, it's  "it would be wise for people to  
projects coordinator for the Center for Social Concerns and  those at the tailgaters got out of hand.  alcohol awareness group, said that while the report was the  okay, and if they choose not to drink, it's okay," he said. "But  take advantage of these input channels," Willis said, adding  
a member of the task force. The task force studied the  He did not, however, favor aggressive enforcement. "We  product of a very diverse group, everyone's views were  if they choose to drink, it must be done responsibly."  that committee members would be willing to talk about  
history of Notre Dame's alco­ are looking at attitudinal is­ expressed. "We came to a very  "It's an individual choice,"  the task force findings. 
hol policies, the legal issues in­ sues, not enforcement issues,"  strong majority agreement on  
volved with being a provider of  said Newton.  the critical points," he said.  
alcohol, the policies of other  He said he hoped that, with  He said the other committee  
universities and a survey of  a change in attitudes and the  members were "very fair as  
student  attitudes  at  Notre  implementation of social alter­ far as taking student input as  
Dame.  natives, alcohol use, in the long  equal input."  
The  task force  then  made  term,  would  cease  to  be  a  It is very unrealistic to ever  
program  and  policy  recom­ volatile issue.  say drinking is going to stop at  
mendations.  
The task force urged the Uni­ 
versity not to provide alcohol  
at  any  events,  whether  the  
events  are  centered  on  stu­ 
dents, alumni or even trustees,  
said Newton.  
"This is different than saying  
that alcohol is not to be allowed at those events," Newton said.  Meg!  
He said the committee's pro­ 
posal did not limit alcohol at  
SYRs, "but what halls and stu­ 
dent affairs might do, we don't know." Reggie Ward, a student on the task force, said the task  Love, Mom, Dad, Mike,  LaFortune Student Center April 6-9  
force members envisioned that  Lori, & Maggie  Sponsored By The Alumni Association,  
Task  Snite Museum, & Student Government  
continued from page 1  

residential life and the aca­
**ALL NOTRE DAME CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS**
demic mission of the Univer­sity.'' Residentiality Chair and Director of Residence Life Anne Firth was 
Registration materials are now available for you to: 
"generally pleased" with the task force's findings in such a wide-ranging field. "We 
1. REGISTER for the 1988-89 ACADEMIC YEAR-­
would have liked to have more time in order to give more at­
Registration is MANDATORY to be an officially
tention to all of the areas. Our 
task was a large one . . . a 
recognized organization on campus. 
wide ranging mandate," she 
said. 
2. 
APPLY FOR FUNDING. 

3. 
APPLY FOR FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND. 


Father Malloy and Father Tyson were out of town and unavailable for comment. 
4. ACTIVITIES NIGHT table registration. 
Correction 

DEADLINE FOR REGISTERING YOUR ORGANIZATION IS: 
Because of an editing error, the color photo of Mestrovic's 
FRIDAY, APRIL 8 BY 4:00P.M. 
"The Pieta" was incorrectly 
pick up packets in the Student Activities Office
credited in last Wednesday's Observer. Jim Brake took the 
315 LaFortune Student Center 
photo. 

Wednesday, April 6, 1988 
The Observer page 5 
TASK FORCE ON RESIDENTIALITY RECOMMENDATIONS


Residentiality 
PERSONNEL: 
• Enhance support for hall staffs and their roles in residential life at Notre Dame.

study finished 
• Hire a professional resource person to aid rectors, assistant rectors, and 
By REGIS COCCIA 
News Editor 
After 11 months of study and discussion, the Task Force on Residentiality released its final report on residential life at Notre Dame and made a sweeping series of recommen­dations. 
The report made 41 recom­mendations on improving hall staffs, residential environment and residence facilities. The most visible issue addressed in 
the  report,  however,  was  
coresidential housing.  
The  majority  of  the  task  

force felt coresidential housing should be optional, said Ann Firth, director of residence life and chairman of the task force on residentiality. 
"I think it should be an op­tion. It's an alternative that should be considered," said Firth. "I don't think (co-ed housing) is for everyone," she said. "I think the base model should be and should continue to be the single-sex dorm." 
The issue of coresidential housing has come up several times, Firth said, but has not been examined in depth. "I don't know of there being an ongoing dialogue. Alumni, stu­dents and others all have some­thing to say on it and they need to be heard," said Firth. 
The task force considered three possible models for coresidential housing, Firth said, to "fit in with the overall residential system." The models the task force recom­mended include: 
•Senior 
townhouses, limited to 200 students 

•A 
dorm for upperclassmen only, with separate living areas for men and women, similar to Keenan and Stanford Halls 

•An 
"Honors Hall" housing 75­100 juniors and seniors chosen for academic achievement, demonstrated leadership and commitment to community life 


"We decided to suggest a look at these models and come up with a way that works for 

resident assistants. 
• 
Establish a program for evaluating resident assistants. 

• 
Hire an intervention specialist in the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education to conduct assessments of substance abuse. 

• 
Hire a professional resource person to assist off-campus students. 


RESIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENT: 
• 
Increase interaction of students and faculty in residence halls through academic and informal activities. 

• 
Establish parity in the number of men and women on campus. 

• 
Increase minority enrollment. 

• 
Revise and clarify the rules and regulations in du Lac 


FACILITIES: 
• 
Build additional residence halls to accomodate freshmen, graduate and fifth-year students. 

• 
Make an optional arrangement for coresidential housing 

• 
Appoint a committee to study coresidential housing. 



Three Possible Models for Coresidential Housing 
cial for all involved. People have to learn to interact with other people and what better
SENIOR TOWNHOUSES 

place to learn than at Notre
/W W W:tJJ lffl\ 
A small complex housing no more than 200 
Dame in the Notre Dame fam­
ily?" said Challenger. 
students. Design would include common social
OctO 
0lQ
0 ~ 0 

Brendan Judge, student judi­
and study space and a chapel. Senior men and 
cial coordinator and task force 
women could reside in the townhouses, provided 
member, said he feels
0 JO 
o,o

0'0 
there be adequate privacy in each unit. 
coresidential housing is imPOr­
n n tant, but only in the context of 
the task force's mandate to 
n 

Notre Dame," said Firth, add­tion came up at all the task ing the models were first pro­force meetings. "The majority posed by previous committees of the student input was for appointed to evaluate coeduca­coresidential housing," he tion. said. "We also looked at models 
Junior Bob Challenger, a stu­other schools employed. We dent appointed to the task saw it's not necessarily nega­force, said the issue of coeduca-tive; in some cases it's very 
beneficial," Challenger said. 
"My personal feeling is that 
coresidential housing is benefi­
SEPARATE LIVING FACILITIES Open to juniors and seniors, this arrangement would provide men and women with areas common to both, such as social rooms, chapel space, lobby and laundry rooms, similar to the present configuration of Keenan and Stanford Halls. Parietal regulations would apply. 

study residentiality. 
"What the task force wants
I 
\ 

is a sound residential system
/fl_ 
2 \ 
that fosters growth in a lot of areas," Judge said. "Everyth­
0 
0 

0 ing we addressed was in the
D n n

0 D 
context of a residence hall sys­
0 
0 

tem which fosters
0 G 

relationships, human dignity
0 0 


( 1\ 
and a pursuit of academic ex­
,...­

/'W~~Wv'tl\ 
GtO 0 G Dctil 


n.romn,G 
cellence," he said. 

Senior Michelle Parent, a resident assistant, said she 
"HONORS HALL" 

Housing no more than 75-1 00 upperclassmen, 
thinks coresidential housing is 
this hall would select residents based on 
a very important issue. "It's 
hard to say how it will affect 
the community. It's just like
academic achievement, demonstrated leadership, 
and commitment to community life. The code of 
any other issue -you start
student conduct found in du Lac, with some 
talking about it and some are 
for it and some are against it,'' she said. 
self-governance of residents. 

No official reaction has been 
made to the task force's recom· 
mendations, Firth said. 

"We presented the report to 
(University President) Father 
<Edward) Malloy. The ball is 
pretty much in his hands," said 
Challenger. 

"I hope people will read the 
entire document," Firth said. 
"It's important to get a sense 
of what the task force was 
trying to do." 

The 16-member task force was appointed in April, 1987, by Father David Tyson, vice pres­ident for student affairs, at Malloy's request. Six subcom­mittees were formed to research specific issues on residentiality, Firth said. Each subcommittee met with hall staff members, students, fac­ulty and administrators and submitted reports of their fin­dings to the task force. 
A survey was distributed to about 600 students in introduc­tory theology courses, said Judge, to provide a representa­tive sampling of the student body. 
"(The University adminis­tration) will definitely look at what we've said," Parent said. "What we've recommended are all important, otherwise we wouldn't have put them in the report," she said. "!think the task force has hit on the key issues," Parent said. "If they start working on them, it will definitely be a good thing for Notre Dame." 
Task Force on Residentiality 


"I hope people will read the entire document. I think It's important to get a sense of what the task force was trying to do: represent the needs and Interests of Notre Dame." 
Ann Firth 
Director of Residence Life 
Ann Firth, chair, director of residence life 
Laurine Bink. former student body vice president 
Father Francis Cafarelli, adjunct instructor of the Freshman Writing 
Program 
Father Joseph Carey, assistant director of financial aid 
Robert Challenger, junior 
Kenneth Durgans, director of minority student affairs 
Sister Annette Giarrante, campus ministry staff 
Leslie Griffin, assistant professor of theology 
Brendan Judge, former student judicial coordinator 
Father John Lahey, instructor of theology 
Jerry Marley, assistant dean of the College of Engineering 
Catherine O'Hare. assistant rector of Lyons Hall 
Michelle Parent, resident assistant of Lewis Hall 
Martin Rodgers, senior 
Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences 
Timothy Salmon, former co-chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council 
Task Force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol 


"This report Is not addressed to the students; It Is addressed to the Notre Dame community." 
Patrick Utz Director of the University Counseling Center 
Patrick Utz, chair, director of the University Counseling Center Joanne Bessler, assistant director for reference and instructional services Sister Joris Binder, rector of Pasquerilla East Patrick Cooke, former student body president Sean Cullinan, senior Diane Fitzgibbon, senior class president Dolores Frese, associate professor of English Roger Jacobs, director of the Kresge Law Library Father Thomas King, rector of Zahm Hall Stuart McComas, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering Patrick Murphy, junior Father Stephen Newton, special projects coordinator of the Center for Social Concerns John Poirier, professor of physics Wendy Clauson Schlereth. University archivist Reginald Ward, senior Vince Willis, former vice president of local BACCHUS chapter 
Wednesday, April 6, 1988
page 6 The Observer 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHI.......IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHitllllllllttltlllllltllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiU 


Our Mission, should you choose 
: 
to accept it, is kids. 
Kids across our country who 
know loneliness and fear. 
Kids who desperately need 
help and love. 
Some say they are beyond 
help, unreachable. 
Some call it a "Mission 
Impossible:' 
We say no way. 
We are the Salesians of 
Don Bosco and we live for 
poor kids. 
But to continue we need more help. 
We are looking for a few good 
men to become Brothers or 
Priests for the young, to share 
in our "Mission" by working 
with needy youth. 
YOU COULD MAKE OUR MISSION POSSIBLE. 


------------------r----------­
0 YES, I'd like to find out more about the Salesians. 
Name_  _---~---­ 
Address~  
--~­ 
City  State  Zip  
Phone#  Age  

Send the coupon to: 
Salesian Vocation Ministry Box 9000 West Haverstraw, NY 10993 


NO 
I I I I I I I I I I I 

OR 


CALL 
(914) 429-1457 
Salesian Vocation Ministry 
ltHIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllllllllletllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIII........IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllll.......lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
I 
I I 


Wednesday, April 6, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Hijackers demand prisoners' release 
Arabs. But their demands
Associated Press 
echoed those of Iranian-backed 
NICOSIA, Cyprus -Arab Shiite Moslems holding Amer­hijackers Tuesday forced a ican hostages in Lebanon. Kuwait Airways jumbo jet to The Kuwaiti government land in northeastern Iran, rejected the hijackers' demand threatened to blow it up and to release 17 prisoners, calling demanded that Kuwait release it "blackmail," but said it 17 pro-Iranian prisoners. They would listen to other demands, later released 24 of the 112 pas­the Kuwait News Agency re­sengers. ported. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency said After an emergency session, without elaboration that the 24 Kuwait's government said it women were released early will send a three-man delega­Wednesday after negotiations tion on Wednesday morning "to with Iran's deputy prime min­help Iranian authorities" se­ister, Ali Reza Moayyeri. cure the passengers' release. 
Among the other passengers Iran asked Kuwait to send a were three members of high-ranking delegation to Kuwait's royal family and a Mashhad in northeastern Iran passenger with aU.S. passport, for direct talks with the hijack­on a flight from Bangkok, ers. Thailand, to Kuwait. The gun­The hijackers earlier men warned the Kuwaiti royals demanded fuel for the aircraft would be "in imminent dan­and threatened to blow it up if ger" if Kuwait refused to free the Iranians approached. the prisoners, IRNA reported. IRNA initially said the The Observer 1 Lisa D'Anzi
Let there be light

The hijackers, brandishing Iranians refueled the plane, but pistols and hand grenades, then said the gunmen were still Maintenance workers replace the lampposts on North excessive wear and tear on the previous posts.
identiP<>d themselves only as requesting fuel. 
Quad Monday. The new lights were erected due to 
Four Israelis wounded as guerrillas try to cross border 
Associated Press fired rubber bullets at Defense Minister Yitzhak response from King Hussein of That attack was thought to 
protesters, putting out the left Rabin, saying they would "not Jordan, whose approval is con­have made the Israeli army 
JERUSALEM Soldiers eye of a 16-year-old Palestin­take part in acts of oppression sidered essential. seem vulnerable, and violence fired at "suspicious shadows" ian, the Army said. It was and occupation in the West in the occupied territories Tuesday in southern Lebanon among the few violent inci­Bank and ·Gaza Strip." The The attempted penetration began two weeks later. At least and fought Palestinian guerril­dents in a relatively quiet day number writing such letters Tuesday was the ninth infiltra­138 Arabs and an Israeli soldier las trying to cross the border, in the occupied West Bank and now stands at 107. tion effort since Nov. 25, when have been killed during the 4­killing two, the Army said. Gaza Strip, where an Arab Secretary of State George a guerrilla in a hang glider flew month-old rebellion in the lands Four Israelis were reported rebellion began Dec. 8. Shultz went to Jordan and Syria into Israel from Lebanon and Israel captured from Jordan wounded. Forty-one high school stu­promoting the U.S. peace plan. killed six soldiers before being and Egypt in the 1967 Middle 
In the Gaza Strip, soldiers dents about to be drafted wrote He got an inconclusive shot to death. East war. 


The Zenith ()ata Systen1s eaZy l\1 pc 
Singll' Fl<lppy I >rin·: 

~lll.;l.;t"'-lt'd ll '!.IJi p!lt't•: $999 our price only: $499 
I >u;tl Fl<lppy I >rin·: 

'-lll!.l!t''-lt'd lt'Liil p!kt·: $1199 our pricl' only: $599 
Sin.l!ll' Fl< 1pp~· \\·it h !Ltrd I >i:-;k: ~ll.l.;l!t''-ll'd lt'Liil pnt·l ·: $1699 our price only: $899 
The eaZy TM pc from Zenith Data Systems gives you a full-featured computer that's so simple to operate, you can he up and running within minutes after opening the box. And it even comes with a 14" monochrome moni­tor attached. Along with an easy-to-use keyboard, and compact, high-capacity 3W' disk drive. Added to all this, you get some very important extras ... 
Like service and support. As an authorized Zenith Data Systems dealer, we'll give you a full demonstra­tion. Match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs have been met. 
So come talk to us. Here's our calling card! 
Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center-x7689 -or-Fourway Computer Prod. Brad Koch 277-7720 

data 
systems 
I 
1lJ:-'~. /l'l\lth ll,it.\ ~\ -.!l-!11-­

Wednesday, April 6, 1988
The Observer

a e 8 

Pentagon orders buildup to counter Noriega's tactics 
Panama's history. The

Associated Press The reinforcements and a Noriega is head of the 15,000-begun training several squadron of 26 helicopters were man defense forces. hundred civilian volunteers in country's banks have been 
closed for more than a month,PANAMA CITY, Panama -intended by the Reagan admin­The action followed reports guerrilla warfare. 

In Santa Barbara, Calif., and the government has been
The first of an extra 1,300 U.S. istration as a signal to Gen. of harassment of U.S. citizens unable to pay either its debts
troops arrived in Panama on Manuel Antonio Noriega, the by Panamanian soldiers and where President Reagan is Tuesday to increase security de facto ruler whom Washing­the temporary arrest of several vacationing, his chief spokes­or its employees. for American soldiers and ton has been urging to step American reporters during a man denied Monday that the 
Tuesday's editions of state­

citizens in the face of a political down. police raid on opposition president is considering 
and economic crisis. The buildup, ordered last headquarters in a Panama City military action or that he would run newspapers carried a com­A C-141 Starlifter carrying week to counter what the Pent­hotel. urge further economic sanc­munique from Panama's 
Health Ministry that ridiculed

the first contingent of soldiers agon called Noriega's "heavy­The Panamanian govern­tions on Panama. 
the new American troops, call­

from Fort Bragg, N.C., touched handed tactics," will push ment has repeatedly accused U.S. sanctions imposed in ing them potential AIDS carri­down at Howard Air Base, just American troop strength along the Reagan administration of a
outside Panama City. Nearly the 50-mile-long Panama Canal preparing for an invasion and February have produced the ers and threat to public 50 flights were expected. to 11,800 officers and men. said Panama's army had gravest economic crisis in health. 


Government, rebels prepare for Managua 
Associated Press Many technical details remain to be worked out. 
SAPOA, Nicaragua -Gov­Matamorros reiterated the ernment and rebel delegates Contras would cancel the peace met Tuesday to discuss details talks scheduled for April 12 in of their truce agreement as Managua unless the Sandinis­new obstacles threatened plans tas allow the rebel leaders free for a high-level meeting next movement in the capital. He week in Managua. called it "an essential condi­
The start of the technical tion.'' 
talks in this outpost on the In Miami, the Contras said Costa Rican border was the leftist Sandinistas had told delayed almost five hours by them the rebels would have to the rebels' late arrival. stay at a hotel near the 
Bosco Matamorros, a Managua airport. spokesman for the rebels "We will not go to Nicaragua known as Contras, said the to be confined," Contra Direc­
delegation was tardy because tor Pedro Joaquin Chamorro of "transportation and told a news conference in the mobilization difficulties." Miami headquarters of the Nicaraguan Resistance, the 
The meeting in Sapoa is to rebels' alliance. define the zones in Nicaragua, where rebel combatants are to gather under international su­
A group of students catch a few rays on the quad pervision during the 60-day Tuesday. The recent 70 degree temperatures cease-fire that began Friday. 

ATTENTION JUNIORS-19aasr.c1ass Trip 
Your first vote determined an 8 day trip and these are our final options. Along_ with a destination we also need an estimate of the number of seniors planning to attend. Please read and return by Thursday, April 7. 
CARNIVALE CRUISE Mon, October 17-23 (Sun.), 1988 $684 per person Quad occupancy 
Monday Miami Tuesday Freeport Wednesday Nassau Thursday Fun Day at Sea Friday Miami Fri-Sun Miami Fontainebleu Hilton 
* 8 meals per day included on cruise Monday through Friday *Special Events: Captain's Party, Welcome Aboard Party, Gala Captain's Dinner 
NASSAU Sheraton British Colonial $498 per person Quad occupancy Sun, October 16-23 (Sun.), 1988 
*Lush Tropical 8 acre ocean front resort, including pool, lighted tennis courts, restaurants, and lounge. 

----1 would only go on Nassau trip ----I would only go on Carnivale Cruise ____I would go on either; no preference 
MUST BE RETURNED BY APRIL 7 AT 5 PM 
Return to Student Activities Office at 315 LaFortune or 103 Haggar. 
Wednesday, April 6, 1988 
The Observer page 9 
Median age over 32 for first time in U.S. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -America's population is older than ever, with maturing Baby Boomers and the growing number of el­derly pulling the median age past 32 years for the first time, new Census Bureau figures showed Tuesday. 
"The 'Graying of America' is ... documented by its increas­ing age. The median age was 
32.1 years on July 1, 1987," Bureau statistician Louisa Mil­ler reported. 
Rising from 31.8 in 1986, it was the highest median age in 
U.S. history. Median is the point at which half of all Americans are older than that age and half younger. 
Racially, the median age for whites hit 33 for the first time, up from 32.7 in 1986. Black median age was 27.2 in 1987, up from 26.9 and the first time that group had surpassed 27. 
The national median rose with the help of several factors, including the growing number of elderly Americans, the ma­turing of the post-World War II Baby Boom and the small Baby Bust generation that followed. 
The median age reached 30 for the first time in 1950, but the rapid growth of the Baby Boom that was then occurring pulled it down in the following years. 
Parachutist forgets chute, videotapes own death 
Associated Press 
LOUISBURG, N.C -An ex­perienced parachutist filmed his own two-mile death plunge after he fell from an airplane. He carried a video camera but apparently failed to realize he had no parachute, inves­tigators said Tuesday. 
Officials declared the death Saturday of Ivan Lester Mc.ire, 35, of Durham, an ac­cident. 
Franklin County Sheriff's Capt. Ralph Brown said there was no foul play and no indica­tion of suicide, although "a man who has jumped 800 times ought to remember his parac­hute." 
The videotape shows McGuire leaving the plane, ap­parently without problems, Brown said. Other parachutists then jump and free fall, but dis­appear when they pop their parachutes, and McGuire plunges on toward the ground at 150 mph. 
McGuire, who was carrying a video camera mounted on his helmet, was filming a student and an instructor at Franklin County Sports Parachute Cen­ter about 20 miles from Raleigh. 

The Observer I Lisa D' Anzi 
Singin' strings 

Members of the American String Quartet perform Stern and Laurie Carney on violin, Daniel Avshalomov during the University Artists Series Tuesday night at on viola and David Geber on cello. Washington Hall. The quartet is comprised of Mitchell 


Laetare 
continued from page 1 
work with the Special Olym­pics," Malloy said. "Hosting 

t"!t::':"..... ..:::,~:::·"=~~·;:::~:::,,:::~=·~::':"~;.~ ..=·~~.~::: ..':':~=·~~ ..~~~.~::: ..':':... ..:::;·:::..~l :h~~v:~:i~~: ~~~::
~~.~::: ... ..:::.,:::,.:::,.S':': ••:::.;:::~::: ..~;·:::··:::,.:::,.':':,~':': ..:::~.O:::..R::':"=~~ ..::: 
: • very nicely." 1Th' k' b t t k' f i The Laetare Medal is so
i In 1ng a ou a 1n9 a year of before law School? i named because it is announced i Medical School? i each ye~r on Laetare Sunday, : G d t S h 1? : the fourth Sunday of Lent. Es-
C 00

! or ra ua e · i tablished at Notre Dame in 1I f :• 1883, the medal was conceived
:A chicago Litigation Firm is looking for a person, orj as an American counterpart to !LegaVMedical Internship. We will be on conducting! the "Golden Rose," a papal 
iinterviews on the following date: APRIL 11, 1988 at SMC, APRIL 12, 1988 at NO 
If it is more convenient, you may write to: Terrence M. Johnson, Esq. 
5  The Monadnock Building  
i===  53 West Jackson Boulevard  
Chicago, Illinois 60604  
i ~IIOIIIIIIIIOIIOO  (312) 922-4022 OOIIIHOIOIIOIII-IIIHIHOIUOIOIIIIUUUIIIIIIIIIIUOIIIIIIIIOI  

honor which antedates the 11th century. Through the years, the 
recipients of the medal have been selected by a committee headed by the president of Notre Dame. 
"We have a committee which recommends candidates and a committee to review those who have been recommended," Malloy said. "All members of 
the committee are Notre Dame 
people." The Medal was restricted to 
' lay periODS until 1968, wben it 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
~~-'f*
~IJI.I'~. E~~ct~on of8f8 
Foreign Policy Debate Wednesday April6, 1988 Library Auditorium 7p.m. 
Guest Panelists: 
Professor John Gilligan  Director of Institute for  
International Peace Studies  
Professor Michael Francis  Notre Dame Government  
Department  

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUWUIDUIUIJIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIW-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIADWORKSII 
was announced that priests and religious would also be eligible, Malloy said. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C, received the 1987 Laetare Medal for his 35 years of service·to Notre Dame and the country. 
Over the years, the medal has been presented to 85 men and 24 women; soldiers and statesmen, artists and in­dustrialists, diplomats and philanthropists, educators and scientists. 
Among the 109 previous recipients of the medal are Mrs. Shriver's brother, Presi­dent John F. Kennedy, who received it in 1961, and her hus­band, Sargent, the former Peace Corps director and am­bassador to France, who received it in 1968. 
Although the medal has been awarded to married couples in the past, this is the first time spouses have ever received medals separately, Malloy said. 
A native of Brookline, Mas­sachusetts, Mrs. Shriver is the fifth child of Joseph B. Kennedy and Rose Fitgerald Kennedy's nine children. Following her graduation from Stanford Uni­versity in 1943, Eunice Mary Kennedy worked in the State Department's Special War Problems Division. In 1947, she was coordinator of the Justice Department's National Confer­ence on Prevention and Control of Juvenile Delinquency. In 1950, she did social work at the Federal Penitentiary for Wo­men in Alderson, West Vir­ginia. In 1951, she moved to Chicago, where she was a so­cial worker at the House of the Good Shepard and in the Chicago Juvenile Court. She married Robert Shriver, Jr. in 1953. 
Since 1957, Mrs. Shriver has directed the Joseph P. Ken­nedy, Jr. Foundation. The foun­dation, established in 1946 to memorialize her brother, who had been killed during World War II, supports research into the causes and possible preven­tion of mental retardation, as well as efforts to improve the manner in which mentally 
retarded citizens are treated in 
their societies. 

Last summer, Mrs. Shriver chaired the International Spe­cial Olympics at Notre Dame. in which more than 4,000 men­tally handicapped athletes from 60 countries participated. 
············································t 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 

OPEN HOUSE •• 
CENTER FOR NURSING 
Saturday, Aprll9, 1988 
10:00 AM to 2:00PM 
AMERICAN BAR CENTER 750 North Lake Shore Drive 
•

Suite 601 Chicago, Illinois 60611 (312) 908-8298 
Bachelor of Science In Nursing Master of Science in Nursing Registered Nurse Advancement Program Full-time and Part-time Programs 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~ 




Viewpoint
page 10 Wednesday, April 6, 1988 
P.O. Box Q 

View of N.J. not wholly accurate 
Dear Editor: 
I live in New Jersey, and, in reading Mr. McLaughlin's Inside article of March 24, I sat down to think about my own experiences there. Somehow I think I'm probably not as experienced in observing the characteristics of a particular place as the author. I was embarrassed by my innocence, for I don't see New Jersey as "Hell" as his brilliant description h\d clarified for the reader; I see New Jersey somewhat more glorified. I remember fishing and crabbing with my father, water skiing with my friends, surfing in solitude, and walking on the beach with my girlfriend. Then I realized that it wasn't me that was the idiot. I realized that perhaps there was more than one area of New Jersey. 
I am fairly familiar with Keansburg. I used to live in Hazlet and Keyport, which are not too far from there. Now I live in a town called Oceanport, which is about 25 miles south of Keansburg. Through my experience of that town, I've come to realize it is probably not the best. My high school, Shore Regional, played in a basketball game against Keansburg. The vision is scarred in my memory. The bus pulled up to the gymnasium. There were four police cars at the door. I was a little wary, but that all changed. As I walked in the door, I thought I was in a juvenile hall. I was terrified. Midway through the game a guy on my team fouled a Keansburg player. There was a little pushing until someone from the stands pulled out a switch blade. There was not a "bench-clearing brawl"; there was a riot! Our team had a police escort back to the bus. Shore Regional will never play Keansburg again. 
So it's not hard for me to imagine 54 junior high students being arrested for drugs. It's not hard for me to imagine Mr. McLaughlin's little brother slowly turning into a delinquent. Where I think he errs is in saying that all of New Jer­sey is like Keansburg. I never saw what a "joint" looked like until my senior year at high school, I learned how to curse from my parents, I was never in a bar until I got to college, and I was more interesed in playing basketball than drinking alcohol in junior high. Furthermore, I hope it's not only Jersey kids that think about sex often! You might think all this is coming from a clean-cut all-American boy, but it's ac­tually quite the opposite. 
Finally, I don't know if it's that the people are happy without trying to get a degree or become successful. Per­haps they lack the money or maybe the area where they live suppresses their ambition. And that's the point I'm trying to make. I live in a great area, with smart kids, and ambitious people. I could easily write a story about how New Jersey is exactly like the place where I live, but I'm not that ignorant. 
Peter Meringolo Flanner Hall March 24, 1988 
Amnesty debates death penalty 
Dear Editor: 
On Feb. 8, 1987, Amnesty Interna­tional released a statement that des­cribed the use of the death penalty in the United States as "arbitrary, ra­cially biased, and clearly in violation of international treaties signed by the 
U.S. Government." It is not the only body asking the United States to recon­sider its stand on the death penalty. 
In the world community, the United States stands with Turkey as the only NATO Alliance countries that still exe­cute people. In fact, when it comes to the death penalty, the United States keeps questionable company with the Soviet Union, South Africa, Chile, and Iran. As citizens of this country, we must realize that the executions are being carried out in our names. We need to examine this issue seriously. 
The campus chapter of Amnesty In­ternational invites the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community to attend the British film "Fourteen Days in May" at 7 p.m. tonight in Room 121 of the Law School. Through the film and a brief discussion following it, we hope to raise some serious considerations about the death penalty. 
Portrayal of ANC lacks accuracy 
Dear Editor: 
This is a response to the inaccuracies of a letter printed in the Friday, Mar. 

25 edition of The Observer written by Ron Kunkel. Yes, necklacing is per­formed by some black South Africans against other blacks who are informers paid by the apartheid regime, but the African National Congress and other anti-apartheid organizations do not condone these activities, nor have Nel­son Mandela and other black leaders participated in such brutal activities. Unfortunately, whenever there is such violent oppression as is practiced by the South African government, which the Reagan administration appears to support, then there will be those dissi­dents aroused by extreme anger who will violently attack their brethren. But it must be made clear that the ANC is not supportive of violent measures against those who are not members of the police force or military. 
In earlier years, the ANC practiced sabotage against unpopulated areas and buildings like communication tow­ers and abandoned warehouses. However, more recently, the ANC has been promoting violent tactics against those militiamen (none of which are women or children) who are armed with machine guns and other weapons. 
Naturally, as peace-loving people, we of the Anti-Apartheid Network would prefer there to be no bloodshed at all, but which of two evils would you support--an oppressed people who have only resorted to violence after years and years of attempted peaceful negotiation, or a powerful military which randomly murders and im­prisons men, women and children whose major goal is justice? The Net­work supports complete divestment, which would force the government to the negotiation table, and hopefully, put an end to the violence much faster than would a long and bloody civil war. 
Another fact I should reiterate is that the black South Africans are to some extent supported by communist countries, but they did not seek the sup­port of these nations until after the sup­port of democracies like the United States and Great Britain had been denied them. Many patriotic persons wrongly and automatically condemn any group associated with the "Commies," but you should be in­formed that communism to these people is much different from the com­munism we as Americans tend to visualize. To black South Africans, communism is not the extreme mea­sure we witness in Cuba or Afghanis­tan, but rather a more equal sharing of power, which is no~ apparent in the sup­posed democracy of South Africa, where only whites and some coloreds are allowed to vote while blacks who make up 80 percent of the population are denied that basic human right. Mr. Kunkel would do well to get his "well documented facts" correct before publicizing his opinion. 
Zandra Mencer LyoQHall Co-chairperson Anti-Apartheid Network March 27, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"A tart temper never mellows with age; and a sharp tongue is the only edged tool that grows keener with constant use." 
Washington Irving 



Editorial Board Operations Board



Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief......................... . ......... Chris Murphy 
Business Manager. . .................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ...................... ............ Chris Donnelly
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Advertising Design Manager . ................. Molly Killen 
News Editor .............................. .............. Regis Coccia 
Advertising Manager ............. ..... Unda Goldschmidt News Editor .............................. ........ Mm Mclaughlin 
Production Manager ....................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ....................... ............ Matt Slaughter 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Systems Manager ............................ Mm RidgewaySports Editor ......................................... Marty Strasen
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Controller ................................ .......... Todd Hardiman the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nst1tutlon. The News IS repor1ed as accurately and ObJectively as Graphic Arts Manager........................... Marga Bruns
Accent Editor .............................................. Beth Healy 
Saint Mary's Editor ............................. Sandy Cerimele
poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the ma,onty of the Editorial Board 
Photo Editor .......................................... Michael Moran
Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space 
1S available to all members of the school community. and the tree expression of vary1ng op1mons on campus. through leners. IS encouraged 

Accent

Wednesday, April 6, 1988 
page 11 


Easter insRires a
\
\ 

love for hats 
E
aster is a great holiday for more than Cadbury cream eggs, goody baskets and decorating eggs with Paas designer kits. Easter Mass sets the scene for some of the year's best fashion shows. 
Every spring brings the advent of baseball. tulips and new Easter outfits. People of all ages participate in this last rite of spring. and what makes it fun is when some people really enjoy themselves, from toe to head. 
For all of us, Easter Sunday is indeed a new beginning--we rejoice as we commence our renewed lives. This one day brings a whole new dimension to a woman's closet, however. She can dress up in her best for the day; she can finally begin wearing white; and she can indulge in a fashion statement long ignored by many women and fashion analysts alike. I am writing here of Easter bonnets, and hats in general. 

My mother introduced me to the tradition and fun of having a new hat for Easter when I was just a little tyke. I can picture myself in a pink dress that hit about mid-thigh, wearing those 
Mary Berger 
Back in the Highlife 
I 

white stockings, white ballet slippers and the rufned bottoms little girls wear with short dresses. I carried my tissues in a white pillbox purse and atop my head sat a white Easter bonnet. 
I guess that is when and where it all started. An Easter bonnet at five has led to green bowlers, red fedoras, gray berets and Australian bush hats at age 20.


Hockney transcends limits 
As a young girl. there was usually an annual occasion which SARAH VOIGT 
would warrant a new hat. In high school, though, is when the real


i ll:

accent writer obsession began. That's when I began wearing old family ·_.. -~~·· ·. ..., ~ treasures found in the basement and began making a beeline for D a rely does an artist work in .· .. :~ . ,.._ the hat department of any store, or hat stores themselves, where l'-1 medium that he distrusts ·. · ; . the few and the proud could be found. and dislikes. David Hackney is , . ,,._ ' .··. Historically, women wore hats because it was believed a head an exception. Hackney's col-/:, , " o; hair was too much a temptation for men. Women particularly lages of photographs in the had to wear hats in church to keep men's attention on the "l'hotographs by David Hock-sermon and not on their luscious locks. ney" collection at the Snite As time moved along. society did not expect women to cover Museum attempt to overcome their heads as much, so the practice slowly disappeared. An early the restraints of time, perspec-sign of women's liberation perhaps? tive and motion in photogra-The ObserveP'Rob Regovich "Let your hair down! No more hatpin acupuncture! Put your hats phy. Hackney has developed "Photographs by David Hocl<ney" Is on display at Snite through April 17. back in the hatboxes and be free of hat hassles!" innovative techniques to create no 'hillle ~Jill!. j:>llolo:;, trorn a .?i5mm camera. But like all the other things popular with one generation and vivid, living photographic Hackney first created his He found that this oon!erless gauche with the next, hats are back. images that try to draw the photo collages to try to tran-film allo'wed him much more My hats now number about 25. This includes all the very viewer into the scene. scend these limits of photogra-freedom because he could casual, the sporty-to-nice, and the special occasion hats which tlockney originally distrusted phy. He developed the concept change the edges of the col-stay in boxes on the shelf until they are the perfect topper. I have photographs because he of "visual mechanization." Gray lages. For example, when about 15 here at school strung across and down the wall on believed that they distorted elaborates, "Hackney studied Hackney assembled the elastic clotheslines. You now have to climb on the couch to get reality. For example, Richard L. the way in which we mechani-photographs of the Grand Can-some hats, and you have to balance yourself on the radiator and Gray, assistant professor in the cally view an image. Previously, yon and Yosemite Park, he window ledge for the out-of-season ones, but the configuration is Department of Art, reveals that people would use a wide angle could curve the horizon or lead both efficient and aesthetic. t-lockney disliked the single lens to photograph a room, but the eye off the landscape at a Why do I wear hats? It started as fun and has remained so. point perspective that this would distort the scene." certain point so that the viewer Sometimes they are functional--the bush hat pulled way down in a photographs convey. Hackney In order to eliminate this per-feels that he is actually in the rainstorm is the perfect substitute for an umbrella. Sometimes claims that this limited vision spective distortion, Hackney picture. they are convenient, as many males·out there can attest to--when distorts the true sense of depth began taking shots of individ-Another way that Hackney you wake up too late to take a shower, a baseball cap fits the bill and volume and disregards the ual aspects of a scene. He draws the audience into his perfectly. various angles of a subject. For would then piece the photos work is through the placement More often than not, however, h<'ltc;; simply are fun. Like example, in an ordinary photo-together into a unified whole. of his own feet or discarded shoulder pads and any other acces·sory, they can make an old graph of the front of a chair, Gray explains that Hackney rolls of film in one end of the sweater look like it's just off the runway, or they can tie an entire the viewer can never see the likened the crafting of these collage. Hackney's trademark outfit together. back, side or top view. photo collages to the sketching shoes, often complete with Hats are like LIFE cereal. Once you try them, you'll like them. Another major flaw that of a drawing. Starting with a bright laces and unmatched Unfortunately, the world is no longer filled with milliners, but Hackney finds with photogra-box full of pictures, Hackney socks, allow the viewer to fortunately, both affordable and haute couture designers are phy is its failure to express the would assemble the images stand in Hackney's place and tipping their hats our way once again. Beach hats fill the stores passage of time. Hackney feels based on the principles of line, see exactly Vv'hat he sees. now as do the classic fedoras and even a few party hats here and that it is unnatural to freeze a multiple perspective, contour The "Photographs by David there. If you like to shop and ever want to buy yourself a. little 
single image. Gray clarifies and continuity. Hackney" exhibit will be at the something new and fun, try a hat on for size. It's the perfect way Hackney's opinion when he ln addition to the basic Snite Museum until April 17. to keep your chin up.ask~ ··wedon'tthinkinin-gu~elinesofdrn~ng. Hackney ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
stances so why should we pho-uses the technique of cubism 
Eat1·ng survey ea s to treatment 
tograph them?" In a video tape to provide multiple ways of · presentation in the exhibit, he looking at the subject. Hackney Special to The Observ._. -~he Counseling Center, in an cannot be used to identify indi­claims, "The idea of a frozen was especially influenced by This week, all undergraduate effort to provide education and viduals in any way. The more image could not have existed Pablo Picasso's style. He ad-Notre Dame women 18 treatment, has found that indi­surveys that are returned, the before the chemical invention mires cubists because he feels years and older will receive an viduals tend to distort this more accurate the results will of photography." that they try to see more ac-Eating Survey from the Univer-issue. Some people believe no be. Surveys should be returned 
Yet another concept that curately than the traditional sity Counseling Center. The problem exists while others to the University Counseling Hackney believes could never one point perspective painting. purpose of this survey is to fear as many as 65 percent of Center through campus mail a have existed before photogra-Hackney's earliest photo col-.assess the need on this college-aged women may be soon as possible. phy is the blur. He asserts that lages were created with the campus for programs and ser-affected. No research has been the camera creates an illusion Polaroid. In the cubistic style vices that address eating prob-conducted at Notre Dame to lt is important to recognize of blurred motion. In 1982, Hackney reduces, enlarges and lems. While we recognize that provide an accurate picture of that this problem is not unique when Hackney was commis-fragments individual polaroid men may also have eating this problem. lt is our hope to Notre Dame. The week. of sloned to design promotional photos in order to create col-problems, the incidence of that our survey will provide this April 24 through April 30, 
I
posters for the 1984 Olympics lages of casual scenes, such as them is more prevalent among information. 1988, has been designated 
I
Games, he portrayed a skater's friends chatting or a man women. Therefore, due to the "National Eating Disorders 
I
spin using multiple pictures smoking. expense and time required to Participation in the survey is Awareness Week" by the U.S. 
I 
taken In rapid succession. The In 1982 Hackney left conduct this survey, women completely voluntary. Senate and House of Represen­result is a remarkably accurate polaroid film and began to only were included. Responses are confidential and tatives. 
I 
image of a skater's spin with create collages with 3 by 5 
' 
Wednesday, April 6, 1988

page 12 The Observer 

NHL playoffs face off tonight for 16 
Associated Press 

New Jersey vs. New York finalists last year against Ed­playoffs with an 0-7-1 record Winnipeg vs. Edmonton Islanders monton, had a weak finish due and carry a two-yearThe Islanders hold a 35-1-3 to an unusual amount of injur­postseason drought into their After finishing a disappoint­record over the Devils at Nas­ies. Both teams were inconsis­first-round series with the ing second and failing to win sau Coliseum and will have tent in the late stages of the Blues. The Blackhawks were 
the division title for the first four potential home games. Patrick race, when the swept 3-0 by Toronto in the 1986 time in seven years, the -Ed­The Devils nailed down the Islanders took charge. playoffs and 4-0 by Detroit last monton Oilers hope to redeem last playoff spot on the final year.themselves against Winnipeg. day of the season for their first Chicago vs. St. Louis Sabres vs. Bruins 
The Oilers, led on offense by postseason berth since moving Wayne Gretzky, Mark Messier to New Jersey in 1982. The Blackhawks finished The Bruins had a midseason and Glenn Anderson, have third in the Norris, a spot they streak that put them in first un­
Philadelphia vs. Washington

beaten Winnipeg in 14 straight had sewn up for nearly a til the Canadiens ripped oft a playoff games. The Flyers, Stanley Cup month. But they slid toward the 15-game unbeaten streak. The 

teams 
Bruins slumped at the end but still finished with the fourth­best record in the NHL. 
Toronto vs. Detroit 
Detroit lost superstar Steve Yzerman to injury late in the season, still finished strong, be­coming the first divisional title­winner this season. The Red Wings won their division by the biggest spread, 17 points over St. Louis. 

The a.--Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, eccepb classified advertising from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through F~-Tbe a.--Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through F~. Deadline lor next-day classllleds Is 3 p.m. All :lassifleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In penon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five ~per day. 
'--N_O_T_IC_Es___.ll..____FO_R_RE_NT__,Jj .__I_TI_CK_ET_s______. 
FEDERAL, STATE & CIVIL SERVICE EE Banquat WE BEAT THE NATIONAL CHAMPS 80· 
Jobs $18,4 to $69,891. Immediate ( aka Brownie point Fest ) 76 Digger FOR PRESIDENT!II MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL. NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL openings! call JOB LINE 1-518-459-·Tues., April 12 277-1051 DAY. LARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH GREG 277-8898. 3611 Ext. F 794, 24hr. • Tix available in ECE office for $&Stud Countdown 'till LaPhonso-only 240 days 
LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK, and $12-faculty. Seattle bound in '88-'89 !!! TYPING AVAILABLE CARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI· Top Quotes from South Padre Spring ' All student, faculty, and staff gEEks 287-4082 ANCES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS Break 88 Continued 10 Rog ain't chillin', invited. 
Shhh .. don't tell

AND BRIDGET'S. FURNISHED OR UN· he's illin' 9 HE'S GOT BRAKES!! 8 Not
PERSONALS 
Sean Kerrigan was nice last Wednesday. 

FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA· Whataburger! 7 We all have big ·pans' ADOPTION: Loving couple, physician TION CALL 277-7360 DAYS OR 272· Come and use them anytime. 6 ... I don't IEEE Election sign-up deadline: The SMASHERS are gonna be J-J·
and psychologist, deeply wlahea to 6181 EVENINGS. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, remember... 5 Get off the babysitter' 4 Fri., AprilS Jammin' just like Jordan SMASH!!!!!
adopt newborn. Welcoming warm fam­CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Jeff. get your fingers outta there 3 RAY!!!! 
Contact Jill Lennert x3033 or BillIly, love, opportunities! Expenses HAVE SUCCESSFUL 2ND INTER­BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 2 Get on the p---y!! 1 So what are you paid. Legal, confidential. Call Ellie and VIEW? Rent Chgo 1 br apt! Big enuf trying to say? 
McCarthy x1150. EVER WANTED TO BE IN THE SECRET Alan collect 212-724-7942. to ahara. Sunny vintage ctyd bldg. COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO SERVICE?
Hdwd lira, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clata, ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF­YOU SAW HIM PLAYING IN THE HALL MOCK NATIONAL CONVENTION 1988
heard about the MOCK CONVENTION
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL bamt storage, lndry. 112 blk to Lk Shr TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­OF FAME GAME...HE'S SO UGLY IS LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD
and wished you had signed up? THERE PEOPLE WHO WOULD LIKE TO USE
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Dr, bus, 2 blk to L trn, Wrlg, Fld. $650 LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. COMA FOR 
IS STILL A CHANCEl!! The CONVEN­A LITTLE "INTELLIGENCE" (VERY
Incl. ht. Moat Chgo leesea renew !VI, UMOC ... COMA ... COMA. .. YOU ARE SO TION is looking for a few more interested people! Sign up in the Student Govern­Professors and grad-students: Pandora's ao call eerlyl 312-871-3397 (ND'80). Oh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, UGLY. 
LITTLE), HUMOR, AND MUSCLE AS A

will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to great in virtue and rich in miracle near 
make an 10-5:30 NICE 5 ment offices or 305 Lafortune(3-Bpm) DO SECRET SERVICE AGENT DURING
appointment. 7 FURNISHED BEDROOM Kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful inter­JUNIORS ... JUNIORS ... JUNIORS 
THE EVENT. so If your an expert with a

IT TODAYIIIIII!III
day&Week HOUSE, 112 MILE NORTH OF NO. cessN of all who invoke your special Just think about it... you are laying on the 
walkie talkie or just have dreams of

GOOD AREA. 287-8389. patronage in time of need, to you I have beach, trying to get tan. You think you 
wearing a dark blue suit and looking im­

recourse from the depth of my heart and are all comfortable, and then someone 
portant BE AT OUR MEETING ATMOCK NATIONAL CONVENTION WORD¢PLUS 2 ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT IN humbly beg to whom God has given such yells, "It's time to go. The boat's leaving." 

6:30PM THUR APRIL 7 305 LAFOR­COMING APRIL 11-14Scholastic Typing-Editing CHICAGO --ROGERS PARK AREA great power to come to my assistance. You're time in the sun is cut short. 

TUNE QUESTIONS OR PROBLEMSBE A PART OF IT ALLIII256-3077 $200 PER MONTH FOR MORE INFO Help me in my present urgent petition, WE CAN AVOID THIS UN· CALL 239-6283

CALL £284·4351. In return, I promise to make your name PLEASANTRYII VOTE for the NASSAU known and cause you to be invoked. Say TRIP lor Senior Trip '88 
TO C. FROM LYONS, WHY NOT! 

EXPERT TYPIST WANTED APT. TO RENT. Retired three Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and Nobody liked "The Love Boat" MAYBE THIS TIME YOU WILL HAVEMOCK CONVENTION --DEBATECALL JAN FARLEE 258-2393. couple, former NO staffer, wants to Glorias. Publication must be promised. anyway... 
TO WALK ME HOME HARRY CALLTONIGHT --7:00PM LIBRARY 

rant fumlahed apt. for summer, St. Jude pray lor us who invoke your aid. 
X4062 praferably at University Park Apia, but Amen. This Novena must be said for 9 AUDITORIUM --DELEGATES EN-
An extra 200 Dollars, Just to go on a COURAGED TO ATIEND
boat?

Wordprocenlng-Typing will consider other. Write with per­consecutive days. 
BODES, LA, AND BOB THANKS FOR

272-8827 I don't think it is worth rt, do you? Cast
tinent Information to 135 Lakeview Dr., 
COMING HOME WITH ME. I HOPE YOU Mulberry, FL 33860. 
Tonight at BRIDGET'Syour vote by 5 p.m. tommorrow to send ENJOYED EASTER AS MUCH AS I DID . 
. 25 DRAFTS AND MONARCH 
Students: Sell your unwanted class the Class of '89 to Nassau for Sentor 
CALL 237-1949 FOR YOUR 2 BEDROOM 2 BATH APARTMENT books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Trip '88. --TONY WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7day....,eek Isn't th;s beach just Grrreeeeaaatttt!!!!!!!! 
7-10 PM CLASSIC ROCK AT ITS BEST! 
FOR SUMMER SUB-LEASE, NEW LOOK OUT WORLD Rebecca Seidel
COMPLEX,POOL $500 FURNISHED. 233-2342 RIDE OFFERED TO EXIT 1t<:ANTON, Hey, BUD! (My name's not...) This is the turned 21 today! Call and wish happy
CALL 271 OH 411-10. FSCALL 2992. 0764 EVENINGS. SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE! Apr. 15-17. first so don't expect a lot, ok? How's my birthday to the cute blonde at x4290
BRIGETS .25 DRAFTS!!! with MONARCH tonight!!! 7-10 pm CLASSIC
Used Books 50-90% off. New books 30% southern pal? How are M, D, K, M, C,
····························································· ROCK AT BRIDGET$!!!
off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off ND M, J & J--and or course Pebbles? Any Peggy, Ave. 10-5:30 7 dayS" week. 233-2342 good rock stories? Did you miss my You are my only one! wake-up calls and my BIG driving con­I love you.
\ LOST/FOUND I L-.1_w_A_N_TE_o__,J 
ATIENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st tributions? Glad you're back! Sincerely, Bill Source Bank will finance your car pur­the Simpleton. It's 
Jennifer Conlon'sLOST: A YELLOW JACKET IN THE ICE SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS chase For more information call Ellen Birthday!!! ···················· 
Guess what! The baseball season's un­TOP
CREAM SHOP. REWARD FOR Counselors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway Santa or Jeff Corey at 236·2200 THE. UNCENSORED # TEN 
Give her a call at 2975 and wish her a
RETURN. CALL 239-8938 OR 883-derway, and the Braves are just a game QUOTES OF EASTER WEEKENL 
camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, good one. 
7838. Bartles BMWMAZDANW out of first place! from the home office in Columbus
arts & crafls, tennis, all land and water Imports All 
Atlanta Braves-1988 World Champs 10. I've never been called a ma'am
sports, gymnastics, drama, pian()jllay for JETIAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends before.
shows, judo, photography, dance, com­April 30th Waldo ·Thanks for calling, and caring. 
9. We're gonna pick up chicks tonight.

puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­
LOST: N.D. RING--Inscription reads,"T J miss your ugly mug around here. I can't 8. Alii need is two minutes and my Speed 
G '89".11 found, please call etry, guitar, radio, video, archery, year­SUMMER JOBS Bookstore tourney fans beware: SMASH! wait to see you again. 
Stick and I'll be ready.

book, woodworking, RN and typist. Write: ALL LANIW/ATER SPORTS IS com1ngx2003.REWARD!I!I! 
7. She's done a lot of smart things. She'sCamp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd, PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK killed two people.

MOUNTAINSLOST: A BLUE ANN KLEIN SASH. LOST Lala -Even though you steal my. dates, I 6. It's good ...it's all good when you think
Eastchester, NY 10707 or call Dan to you and me--eWho was that girl
CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­

9141779<9406. I saw you with? INGS 914-3814224 TWEEN GRACE HALL AND WASHING­5. Officer, I just had to go bad. Can I 
SATURDAY NIGHT SOMEWHERE BE­still lhiilk you're okay. about it. 
DEBBIE is a BOOGER--RYou know who TON HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL Laura--Thanks for all your patient help please finish?
WINNETKA, IL lam lkg for daytime stu­
dent aa summer girl. 312-446-3171 you are. Besides, I'm taller than you. -­evea. STRAIGHT MESSAGE £6 your roomie
CHRIS M X1747 in Chern. (I would have flunked even 4. Hey Amy, there are a lot of hot guys 
worse wt> you!!) --Becky here. Don't you wish you knew what you Lost: a small brown leather pouch on a were missing?
Being straight with someone you care 

WAITRESSES & WAITERS NEEDED about is sometimes real tough to do. Did someone say SMASH!?
leather necklace, containing a relic of St. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: 3. You. and me, and a bucket, and we're 
Flexible hours The Dock: 616-699-7466. If you are really struggling with leelings
T. Aquinas. Any help call Eric 1305. LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT THE
about someone close to you who abuses Nobody ever liked the Love Boat set. PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY 2. Any girl is comfortable when her head 
PLEASE SELL ME GRADUATION TICK· alcohol anyway ... 
LOST: Silver,Baii-Point,Cross pen --If KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND is on this shoulder
ETS. $$BUCKS INVOLVED$$! CALL or other drugs, call us for information Let's face it: Gopher was a dork, Julie's found please call Kevin £1 004 about our programs to help you. a coke-head, The Captain was bald, his PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE 1. We need an overstzed drain plug, but
MARC AT 288-7105 TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M. IN ROOM 123 not the rubber kind.
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education daughter one of the ugliest women on 
NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. Al,LFOUND: CAR AND DORM KEYS. POS­WANTED: PLASMA DONORS. Help 210 LaFortune earth, and the Doc a loser. The only cool MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT­SIBLE ROOM IS 140 (AS PRINTED ON save a life and earn extra caah at the 239-7970 guy on the ship was Issac --and he left TEND.
DORM KEYS) OF SOME DORM. the Love Boat to work in NASSAU. Issac
same time. New and old donora who FOUND AROUND JACC PARKING LOT have not given within 30 days will be said. "I had to get out of that stupid cruise COKE IS IT 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS:AREA. CLAIM IN LOST & FOUND ON paid $12 cash after donating If you Ride for 2 needed to NYDNorthern NJ deal. I heard that the class of '89 was LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT THE
1 ST FLA. LAFORTUNE. bring In this ad. Come to American area for Easter Break. Will share ex­headed toward the beach in NASSA'u. I PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY
Plasma on Tuesday, Wednesday, penses and driving. call 2282. want to party with them. PLEASE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I lost a small gold Class of '89: Party In Nassau: Vote KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND Tab
Friday or Saturday, 515 Llncolnway
chain bracelet!! Somewhere between CONVENTION! CON­today!I! PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE How many BMW's actually exist in KC?
West, South Bend. 234-6010. MOCK MOCK 
B.P. and La Fortune I think. Someone VENTION! 50 delegates still needed for TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M. IN ROOM 123 The B~ar will kill me if I go home without it-­the Convention. Sign up in LaFortune; the ugly ones NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL 
sentimental!!! If found, please call Janice second floor. Join the lun' always smash the picture MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT-at X1264. THANKS!! always •'
TEND. 
HAPPY UNBIRTHDAY, STEPHANIE

FOR SALE 
ugly, ugly, ugly ... every lime 
THOMAS!

FOUND: I found a pair of prescription that's mah tickeet!! JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: (Well, you said you wanted your name
glasses in the student parking lot by the ugly, ugly, ugly... HOW FILL THE
LEARN TO OUUT in a personal, and I had to' thtnk of some
stadium (d1 ?). They were grayish-black ugly nan on campus ... An Aparthied Information Night will be PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY reason.) ' 
and bifocals. Call Scott 1189. P.S. you GOV'T SEIZED HOMES $1.00. held on Monday, April 11 at 8:30pm in KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND left them on the hood of my car (U Repair) BUY Properties for back THANK-YOU ST. JUDE FOR ANSWER­P.E.'s party room. All are invited! PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE SUMMER JOBS FOR THE ENVIRON­
TAXES! ING MY PRAYERS TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN ROOM 123 Found: A poem credited to Tim Rice en­Info, REPO Lliltlng 1-518-45&-3548 Do you have questions about the MOCK NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MENT 
EARN $2500-$3500-NPIRGa hiring

titled "Nobody's Side" I picked up a EXT H-794 24 Hra. Jason, isn't it? NATIONAL CONVENTION? OFFICE MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT­aummer atall In 60 cities
xeroxed copy of it in Riley Hall over two Gotcha! HOURS WED& THUR&FRI 305 LAFOR­TEND. 
Including Boston, DC, Chicago,

years ago. If anyone has any information Roundtrip air from S.B. to anywhere con­...SaWeet, Duuude!! TUNE 3-8PM £239-6283 Am I a dele­Berkeley, Boulder, Philadelphia,leading to the poet in question, contact tinental US. Expires <VI 2. Call 233-3412 gate? for which state? what's going on? JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: me immediately; I've written music to ac­Call or stop by WE"LL HELP! 
Seattle.

LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT THE company the lyrit and desire permission NEW CAR Career opportunities also available.
scon PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY Cell Kate at 1-800-822-2202.
to record it in a studio this summer. Call STEREO:AMFM,tape,bstr,40WT spkrs­scon FEMALE MODELS WANTED FOR PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 3204!,3206 and ask for Jeff. my car died, Greg287-3934 scon HAIRSTYLING. GET THE NEW LOOK. PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE 
scon ALL EXPENSES PAID. FOR MORE IN­TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M. IN ROOM 123 Re;mond, Help! I lost a plastic I.D. holder in N. IBM PG?<T Model 086 scon FORMATION, CALL COSIMO'S HAIR NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL Wt.at happened to my ice cream? Pud­dining hall or O'Shag Wed. Before 1OMb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and scon DESIGNS, 277-1875. MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT­ding Paul 
Easter. Contained I.D. , Detex, Bank Quad ram CGA color monitor. $1,600 scon TEND. Card, Drivers' liscense, and cash. I don't price includes DOS 2.1, documentation. scon LIVE OC FOR SUMMER TURTLE Allison, care about the cash. If found, Please call AST utilities SideKick. CREEK APT FOR RENT BELOW COST A.M. REILLY:
SuperPak and I love you and I am sorry I am here last 4515 or return to 740 P.E. It's important. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO AND FURNISHED!! CALL CHRIS 272-Here's your personal, night. I am camper, Pete 
and other software packages also avail­8889 you dweeb, you! LOST: BEIGE, IRISH CABLEKNIT able. For more information, call Mike OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT -ug Bumpsies.SWEATER IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON 
Krager at 239-7248 weekdays from 8 '88-'89 SCHOOL YEAR The only 10 PRINTABLE quotes from Had a gJ;~>at time down south. Senior for­3-26. CALL 277-2142. a.m. to 5 p.m. Close to campus and Inexpensive. female bonding: . Ia thla the climax? mal u~ NEXT Him 919 South Bend Ave-4 Bedrooms 823 ...If you have to aak, we have a prob­for some. I LOST A FINE GOLD CHAIN WITH For Sale · 2 Airplane Tix, S.Bend -Newark Notra Dame Ave-8 Bedrooms 814 lem. 2. I can fake II. 3. I can HEAR uglyness is Miguel Huerta, FOUR CHARMS ON MONDAY, MARCH Sunday May 15, 2:09pm United Ftt 2685, Corby Blvd-6 Bedrooms 702 St. Louls-you... 4. I don't think I like your prin­a slate of mind... You've seen our demands· the "amigo's" 
28. $75. each: Call John 271-()935. 4 Bedrooms 717 St. Loula-5 Bedrooms ciples. 5. I Murphled myself twice. 6. for nan, life is in danger. Leave $903 in a brown THIS NECKLACE REALLY MEANS A 733 St. Loula-6 Bedrooms 734 St. It's a Hah guitar. 7. Where'a BoH? 8. ugliness is paper bag at Stonehenge at midntghl
LOT TO ME. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL '82 Honda Nighthawk 650, EXCELLENT Loula-5 Bedrooms 801 St. Loula-6 I'm In the markat for a man. 9. He hea a brutal reality... tontght. Failure to pay less then $300 at AMY AT X2666 condition $1000. Call271-0439, Laura or Bedrooms CALL LAURA AT 289-8621 a bigger cheat than I do. 10. Just jump nan sauer for UMOC ... this time will result in his tmmediale ex-Jeff. him and cell II a night! Who said that? 
ecution. This is no game. MLeSSI 

Wednesday, April 6, 1988 
The Observer page 13 

Irish senior attacker Jeff Shay (13) maneuvers against the Wooster defense earlier this season. Shay, the team's third-leading scorer, suffered a 

Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
entrants, also won impressive­
ly, disposing of Jimmy Swag­
gart and the Four Pimps, 21-9; 
Lou's 2 QB's and 2 Blind Guys, 
behind Jeff Peters (seven-of­
eight) and George Baldus (six­
of-seven), devoured The 
Greasy Pork Sandwiches, 21-6; 
Katarina Witt, A Howard 
Chick, and 3 Other Guys Who 
Don't Shave edged No Guts, No 
Glory, No Defense, 21-16; and 
Lions of the Tribe of Judah 
mauled Just Shillelagh, 21-7. 
In other games, The All-
ND lacrosse wins, 

but loses 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team stretched its winning streak to five games last week but the two victories proved costly as the squad lost two key starters to injury. 
Irish victories against Mic­higan last Wednesday and Lake Forest on Saturday have given the team its best mid­season record ever, at 7-1. But those accomplishments are overshadowed by injuries to senior attackman Jeff Shay and senior middie Art Brady. 
Junior attackman John Olmstead led the Irish with eight goals and six assists in the two games, including a school record nine points in the team's 17-7 rout of the Wol­verines. Against Lake Forest, sophomore attackman Dave Carey came of the bench for 
the injured Shay to score a goal lowed The Mouthfuls by for-We're Pathetic won the only and two assists as the Irish held Bridget McGuire's Team swal-break, You Better Win Because off the Foresters 11-6.
feit; Peter Fruin scored 17 way it knew how--by forfeit points for Carver High as they over The Quartet that Couldn't Despite the fast start, the thrashed All Seriousness Count; Last Year We Lost to 4 team still has four of its toug­Aside, 21-4; Stationary Motion Geeks and a Girl didn't fare 
hest games ahead at the end of April. And the injuries, partic­bleeped You'd Censor It much better this year, drop­ularly Shay's, pose as a majorAnyway, 21-11; Mike Jones and ping an equally humiliating 21­setback to the Irish's chances
4 guys... smoked Doobage 7 decision to Orange Blossom Masters, 21-9; St. Michael's Special; Floor Laimbeer against powers such as Ohio 
Wesleyan and Michigan State. 
Shrinks Your Laundry rained blocked 5 Guys Who Go to the Shay, the team's creasemanon Golden Showers, 21-6; The Hole With Authority, 22-20, in a Zone bought for Winners Buy sweat-drenched hour-and-15­and third leading scorer, was injured midway through theafter their 21-13 win: and Emo-minute affair; and Air Force second period against Laketionally Exhausted... tor-ROTC Flying Irish stabbed Fix Forest. After swatting at apedoed 5 Marines that Shhot Bayonets and Charge, 21-3. 
loose ball, Shay was hit fromBig Guns, 21-9. 
behind by two Forester defen­In other action yesterday and First-round action continues semen.
on the Wednesday before tomorrow. 
"It seemed like kind of a late hit," said Olmstead, "and then Jeff's knees buckled and he was 
in a lot of pain. It's pretty serious and it's frustrating for 
The DePaul University 
Professional Master of SCience 
him because he's been playing 
in Accountancy Program 
so well." 

Brady, one of the team's senior tri-captains, suffered a separated shoulder in the second period against Mic­
1988 LA&S GRADUATES: A Special Announcement concerning Careers 
higan and is questionable for
in Business Specifically for Liberal Arts and 
this Saturday's game at
Sciences Students. 
Kenyon. 


Shay 
Irish coach Rich O'Leary said that Brady, whose face-off proficiency has keyed the Irish attack, should be back for next Wednesday's rematch with Lake Forest. 
However, team members say it appears doubtful Shay will return this season even though his condition has not been fully evaluated. Shay is the fourth starter to be seriously injured this year. Un­fortunately for the Irish, they are not nearly as deep at attack as they are at middie and defense, where they have ade­quately coped with several in­juries to key players. 
"Lacrosse is a rough game and you have to expect injur­ies," said O'Leary. "You need to have some depth on your team and unfortunately we do not have much depth on attack, so the loss of Jeff concerns me. 
"Jeff has provided a lot of leadership by coming up with key ground balls and by keeping pressure on the op­ponent's defense. He worked harder than anyone on the team and it will be difficult for anyone stepping in to equal his significance to the team." 
None of the attackmen have sufficient experience on the crease, but Carey is practicing the position this week and is slated to start. Junior Mark Healy and sophomore Ron Lynn will be the team's only attackmen off the bench while freshman Mike Sennett will ap­parently continue to sit out the season with back problems. 
Nonetheless, O'Leary ap­pears confident that the team will continue to adjust to adver­
sity just as they did in the first seven victories. 
"We've played most of our games on the road and have been using a lot of underclas­smen. The fact that we've come out of the first half of the season with only one loss is great con­sidering all that," 0 'Leary said. 
The School of Accountancy of DePaul University, Chicago, Illinois, a 75-year leader in innovative accounting education, offers to selected graduates of prestigious Liberal Arts and Sciences programs the Professional Master of Science in Accountancy. The program is offered in conjunction with the nation's leading accounting firms, is highly competitive, and restricted to students sponsored by the participating accounting firms. 
The IS-month program entails: 

• 
immediate (June 1988) employment in the Chicago office of a sponsoring accounting firm. 

• 
an accelerated course of study in business and accounting--a growth industry--at Chicago's DePaul University. 


Successful completion of the DePaul PMSA program results in: 
• 
A Master of Science in Accountancy degree from DePaul University 

• 
Full-time business and accounting experience with a major accounting firm 


Stepan Center 
• Eligibility to sit for the CPA Examination in Illinois 

Aprilll-14
• Broad career opportunities, and advancement, in professional accounting with your sponsoring firm. 
~egins at 7:00 PM 
Participation in the PMSA is restricted to candidates sponsored by participating accounting firms. 


o1~il6 
The PMSA Program begins June 20, 1988. 
Library Auditorium ~ ~ ¥ * 
For more information on the PMSA Program, contact the placement office on this 
Foreign Affairs ~ ~ ¥ ~+: 
campus, which is cooperating with this program, or Dr. John T. Ahern, Jr., Director, School of Accountancy, DePaul University, 25 E. Jackson, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 341-8770. 
BE A PART [~[]®©UO@[J)f[_g)ffi) OF IT ALL! 
ADWORKS 


,-------­
page 14 The Observer 
ND baseball team rallies to go 4-2 during break 
By THERESA KELLY and STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editors 
Last year's Notre Dame baseball team was plagued with the inability to win close games, going 6-17 in games that went into extra innings or were decided by two runs or less. 
But under first-year Pat Murphy's aggressive style of play, the Irish are turning that statistic around this season. Playing a textbook version of "Murphball," the Irish have used last-inning rallies to win their last two games. 
But as far as late-inning rallies go, Murphy may be ready to put Notre Dame's ninth-inning heroics at Bowling Green on Monday into a time capsule. Trailing 7-2 after eight innings, and facing Bowling Green's ace pitcher, the Irish shot down the Falcons with nine runs in the ninth to pull out an 11-7 victory. Senior des­ignated hitter Chris Flynn led the heroics with a single that brought in the winning run. 
"It had to be the greatest baseball comeback I've ever seen," said Murphy. "It showed what we've known all year, which is that our team can win the tough games." 
Just in case anybody needed more evidence"of this, the Irish did it again on Tuesday at Jake Kline Field. Mter spotting Northeastern Illinois three runs in the first inning, Notre Dame scored single runs in the first, second and fourth to make it a 3-3 tie. 

But the Irish, who had lost 15 of their last 20 games at Jake Kline Field before Tuesday, proceeded to waste opportuni­ties in all the remaining in­nings. When the Golden Eagles broke the tie with a run in the lOth inning, it looked like an­other Jake Kline horror story was reaching its climax. But not this time. Mter Mike Mos­hier reached on an error to lead off the lOth, Greg Vogele tried to move him along with a bunt. Relief pitcher George James tried throwing out Moshier at second, but his throw was high, and then Vogele beat the relay to first. James proceeded to walk Mike Coss on four pitches, loading the bases with nobody out. 
Pinchhitter Craig Pavlina then delivered the key hit, sin­gling up the middle to score Moshier and Vogele and give the Irish the win. "We really had to work for this win," said Murphy. "We were a little tired, and we weren't mentally ready to play this game at 3:30 (the game's starting time). I think that's why we gave up three in the first." 
Irish pitcher Mike Harmon earned the victory in relief of starter Erik Madsen. The Irish duo held the Eagles scoreless for eight innings after giving up three in the first. 


"Madsen pitched well," Murphy said. "He's been get­ting the job done for us all season. Harmon came in and did a good job to get the win." 
With a 16-13 record, Notre Dame already has won more games than it did in all of last season's 15-29 campaign. 
Before the matchups with Bowling Green and Northeast­ern Illinois, the Irish split a four-game series with Midwes­tern Collegiate Conference rival Dayton. 
"We were not happy with a two and two split," Murphy said. ''Dayton was happy, we were not. We are a better team. But that's why you play so many games. A team can't al­ways beat the teams it should.'' 

The Irish pitching staff has put the heat on after a shaky start. In the four game series with the Flyers, Notre Dame pitchers allowed only 11 runs. Brian Piotrowicz and Mike Passilla each earned victories. Piotrowicz allowed one run in seven innings of work en route to a 12-2 victory, while Passilla hurled a four-hitter to earn the complete-game win in a 3-2 Irish triumph. 
Notre Dame had problems scoring runs in the Dayton se­ries, as Flyer pitchers Joe Molony and Mike Devlin re­corded complete-game vic­tories in the two Dayton wins. Molony pitched a five-hit shutout in the opening game of the series, which Dayton won 3-0. In the final game of the se­ries, Devlin scattered six hits in a 4-2 Dayton victorv. 
An exhibition game with the Chicago White Sox scheduled for Easter Sunday at Comiskey Park was cancelled. A meeting with Ball State scheduled for last Saturday at home was postponed and will be played at Ball State along with an already scheduled game on May 11. 
Notre Dame hits the road for a six-game road trip beginning today at Northwestern. 
"They're really a tough team," Murphy said. "They played two close games with Michigan, which is one of the top teams in the country." 
The last time Notre Dame faced Northwestern, the Irish lost a 7-6 extra-inning marat­hon to the Wildcats in the last game of Notre Dame's 1987 season. Notre Dame has lost 16 consecutive games against Big Ten opposition. 


liTrustr:orp 
Bank 

WIN A WORI.DWIDE TRIP FORlWOI 

SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO SPECIAL 
Louie's Tux Shop has extended the special formalwear discount to all students for the upcoming Notre Dame and Saint Mary's formal. Just stop in at any Louie's Tux Shop location, and you'll receive special student rental rates authorized by the student formal committee on our selection of formalwear including: 
Basic Black Tux ..................... $39.95* Designer Black Tux .........•..•... $49.95* Basic Tails ........................... $49.95* Designer Talls ....................... $54.95* 
At Louie's Tux Shop, you'll be professionally fitted for your tux... and you're sure to find the s le ou want to make you look your best. So don't delay. Visit Lou1e s ux Shop at either University Park Mall or Scottsdale Mall and get your special discount when you order your tux today! 
University Park Mall Scottsdale Mall Mishawaka, IN South Bend, IN 
272-2486 ~ 29Hl496 
NUMBER OF ADDITIONAL lYPF.. OF ACCOUNT ENTRJF..S 
Exclusive Direct Deposit ...... ... ..... ........... .............. .. . 25 Payroll Deduction .... .... ........... ................. 20ND ISConsumer Choice Loan ........................... FREE Checking (Interest bearing) ......... 10Banking Savings; Christmas Club; CD's ............... 10 Prime Une or VISA Card ......................... 10Benefits ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS Card..................... 5 
Froaa APRIL 4, throap MAY 7, 1988-Drawlnc held MAY 9, 1988 
GRAND PRIZE 
Worldwide roundtrip airfare for two on any American Airlines route. PLUS-$300 ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS cash! 
FIRST PRIZE -Weekend package trip for 2 to downtown Chicago. 
SECOND PRIZE-Schwinnr"IO speed bi~e. 'DIIRD PRIZE -Golf clubs. 4 FOURTH PLACE WINNERS -Tennis Rackets 
5 nFI'H PLACE WINNERS -35mm Automatic Cameras 
All airline and travel packages are provided by AmericanAirtines and 

LaFortune Banking Center 237-54ND 
f1JU SERVICE BANKING HOURS: Monday· Friday lOam -7pm; Saturday lOam -lpm 
"We Make You The Event!" 
•Does not include damage waiver ree and shoes. 
•All transactions except balance Inquiries qualify. No purchase necessary. Official rules and entry blanks are available at Lafortune Banking Center office. 
C 1988 Truotcorp Bank, South Bend MF.MBER miC 
---~ ~ ~-~--------~------------., 
Wednesday, April 6, 1988 The Observer page 15 
-------------------------------------------------~~~~~~----------------------------------------------~~--



Pacella, ND women in action today against Northwestern 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Wnter 
Following an 11-day layoff, the Notre Dame women's ten­nis team resumes play this af­ternoon at 2 p.m. against Northwestern outside at the Courtney Courts. 
The Irish have not beaten the Wildcats in seven attempts, dating back to 1976. However, this might just be their year, as Northwestern (2-12) is cur­rently in the midst of a rebuild­ing process. Six of its nine players are in their first year of collegiate competition. 
"They've lost a lot of players, " says Michelle Gelfman, head coach of the Irish. "This year, they're unranked, even in our region. We can go head to head with them, and I think we'll beat them this year." 
The Northwestern match is the first of three the Irish (8-12) will play this week. Saturday, the team goes up against Toledo, and the next day, Purdue comes to town. Clearly, the Irish netters are nearing the home stretch. Easter break afforded the team the opportu­
to catch its second wind. 
"We took advantage of the 
time off and regrouped our­
selves, "says Gelfman. "The 
team is fresh and ready to 
finish out the season." 
Fourth-seeded Kim Pacella will play a key role for the Irish throughout the remainder of the season. In Notre Dame's last match, a 6-3 victory over Eastern Michigan, the fresh­man effectively combined her consistent baseline game with a willingness to approach the net in defeating Gina Radecki 6-0, 6-0. "Kim is in a very pivotal position on the team, " says the Irish coach. "She has a good attitude, she's an ex­tremely hard worker, and she's very athletic." 
These attributes undoubtedly helped the 5-3 freshman over­come the adversity associated with collegiate athletics. In ad­dition to the increased level of competition, college sports im­pose a number of time restraints on athletes. 
"I worry a lot about not get­ting my work done, and I worry about sleep," admits Pacella. "I know that I won't play well the next or I won't have time to study if I don't get enough sleep. 
"It's hard, but I've always 
had to be very disciplined about 
getting my practice and school 
in. I think my high school back­
ground and playing tennis all 
the time has helped to ease the 
transition." 
Earlier in the year, the fresh­man had worries of a different sort. 
"At first, I thought, 'Oh my God, what if I lose this match at 4-4 and then the team loses the match 4-5?'", reveals Pacella. "I'm a freshman, I'm playing number four singles, and I don't know if I have to impress the coach, impress the team, or what." 
Fortunately for the Notre Dame women's tennis team, the bubbly native of Toledo, Ohio has been able to suppress her initial fears and settle into 
her role as a vital cog in the Irish game plan. 

AMERICAN CANCER 
SOCIETY1t
t








owtorun our 

"11w American Express., Card can play a starring role virtually an)where vou shop, from 'Iuisa to Thailand. \\"hether vmfre huvin~ a '1\' or aT-shirL So during colle~e and after. it"s the perfect wav to pay for just about evef)thin~ you'll want 
How to get the Card now. Colle~e is the first si~n of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it e:L~ier to ~et the American Express Card ri~ht now \\"l1ether you·re a freshman. senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or caiii-XOO-TIIE-CARD and ask for a student application. 111e American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without lt5"' 
II 
TRAVEL 
RELATED 
o SERVICES 

Fencing 
continued from page 20 
at Notre Dame, finished in 37th place. With the outstanding season that she had, she was a little disappointed with her per­formance. 
"I realized that they're just fencers, and not phenomenal like I thought they would be," said Barreda. "I think it would have helped me if I knew that going into the tournament." 
The epee finals saw the tournament come to a close, but not before Russian epeeist Pavel Kolobkov defeated Mario Bovis of Italy for the title. Kolobkov's Russian com­rade, Oleg Skorobogatov, came in third. 
All added up, the tournament contained some of the finest fencing to be seen anywhere. 
In team competition, the So­viet Union was victorious, col­lecting 59 team points. Italy was second with 55 and Ger­many came in third with 49. 
The tournament did not lack its share of problems, however. During the opening ceremonies, the national an­them of Cuba was inadver­tently misplaced, so when the team stood on the stage to be acknowledged there was nona­tional anthem. 
This caused an "absolute em­barrassment," according to Mike DeCicco. The Cubans mistook this blunder to be a politically oriented action and threatened to leave. 
DeCicco, however, took things into his own hands by first apologizing and then recovering the lost anthem. He then led the Cuban team to the center stage himself, display­ing the sign of Cuba high in the air when the Cuban national an­them was being played. 
Admired by all who saw it, DeCicco downplayed his ac­tions. 
"It wasn't a designed thing. They were threatening to leave and I didn't want this event to cause embarrassment to the University of Notre Dame," he said. 
A tremendous success that it was, it was the third time Notre Dame has hosted the tourna­ment. Next year the tourna­
ment will be hosted by Greece. 

--~-------~-~-~--------~--­
page 16 The Observer 

Jimmy Welsh (dark shirt) of Tofu's last Gig tries terday. Pete Sklko has a wrap-up of Bookstore to cut off an opponent's drive to the basket yes-Basketball action beginning on the back page. 
Golf team third at Purdue Invite 
By BILL STEGMEIER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame golf team came up big Easter Weekend, finishing third in a field of ten teams at the Purdue Invitation­al. Their success at Purdue fol­lowed a clutch win against Lewis College here last week. 
The Irish defeated Lewis Col­lege, 309-315. The big man for the Irish was junior Pat Mohan. The two teams were dead­locked at 236 as Mohan prepared to shoot his round. Mohan shot a 40 on the front side, but came up with a 33 on the back nine. His 73 put the Irish on top, as Lewis' top man, Andy Krajewski, could only shoot a 79. 
The Irish then competed in the 54-hole Purdue Invitation­al. They registered scores of 292, 304, and 313, good enough for third place with a 909 total. Ball State finished first with a score of 895 and Wright State took second, shooting a 905. 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan was delighted with his team's per­formance.

WORK. SHARE. 
LIVE. SAVE LIVES. 
You can ha\e a summer full of adn~nture & personal grov.th Y.hilc imprO\ing health for the people of Latin Amenca. \'{) L u'TE E R I 
I ,1 he an Am1gm 'oluntccr. v. rite: Am1go~ de Ia~ Amenca~. 51:>1 KStar l.anc. Hnu,ton. Icxa~ 77057. 
Or t"all 71 ).7!<2-5290 ur K00-2.~ 1-7791:> !KOO-.N2-45KO an lex;),A~ 

"I'm very proud of my team and how the guys played," O'Sullivan said. "Our round of 292, an average of 73 per golfer, was sparkling. Overall, we beat some of the best teams in our district." 
Among the teams the Irish beat were host Purdue and Iowa, two teams which had won every tournament they had participated in since the fall. 
Notre Dame placed four gol­fers in the top 14 individuals at the Invitational. Junior Pat Mohan tied for top medalist honors, shooting a 224. Senior Dick Connelly took 11th with a 227 score and freshman Paul Nolta came in 12th with a 228. Junior Doug Giordio, with a 230, placed 14th. Pat Kusek, a fresh­man participating in his first 
MICHIANA'S NEWEST HOTS POT!!!!! 

IN GEORGETOWN SHOPPING CENTER Hours 11:00-1 AM Mon-Thurs Fri-Sat 11 :00-3AM Sun. 4-midnight 
~ ~ () ~ c 
~~~ Oc~ ·~ ~ Ooa Oc-i"~ \$\ DAILY IMPORT SPECIALS'*!' -ft~8 
************** ****
***"*COMING fiURflqiONS***** 
APRIL 8th & 9th APRIL 29-30 
Grand Opening APRIL 15-16 Southside Denny 
"Hot Pursuit" 
varsity tournament, scored a 248. 
The Irish next participate in the Kepler Invitational the weekend after next. The 54-hole tournament will be played at Ohio State, the home course of Jack Nicklaus Jr. The host, Ohio State, is the number-one college in District IV. A total of 24 teams will participate in the three day affair. 
O'Sullivan is quietly optimis­tic, as his team readies for the Kepler Invitational. 
"We're going down to the Kepler, the most prestigious golf tourney in the Midwest, re­alizing that we can play and perform at a high level and that we can come out of the tourn­ament with a high placement," O'Sullivan stated. 



Cubs beat Braves 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-Manny Trillo's 13th-inning sacrifice fly gave the Chicago Cubs a 10-9 victory over Atlanta Tuesday night in a National League opener that included a controversial inter­ference call on the Braves and a record-tying seven home runs by both clubs. 
Trillo's fly to center field off losing reliever Jim Acker, 0-1, scored Vance Law, who had doubled and was sacrificed to third. 
Mike Bielecki gained the vic­tory with two scoreless innings of relief. 
The game included seven home runs-four by the Braves 

Sports Briefs 
Women'sBookstoreBasketballwillholdacaptains' meeting on Thursday at Montgomery Theater at LaFor­tune. For more information, call Barbara at 284-5073. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo club will hold a mandatory meeting for all club members tonight with practice to follow at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at 7:00. Any questions should be directed to Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Ob­server 
Irish Spring Runs are scheduled for Saturday at 11 a.m. Paricipants can pay a $4 registration fee at the NVA office or can pay $5 the day of the event. The Irish Spring Runs will include both a three-mile run and a six­mile run. The race starts west of Stepan Center, and t­shirts and door prizes will be given out to participants. 
-The Observer 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS/ ST. RD. 23/1PHONE 272-7653 
GET YOUR 
FlJTUREOFF 


THE GROUND 

CAPT SAM GAGLIO 219-239-6634 

Leadership f.:xl:ellence Starts Here 
and three by Chicago-to tie the major league mark in an opener. The New York Mets and Montreal also combined for seven homers on Monday. 
The Braves appeared to have won the game in the bottom of the ninth when Albert Hall bounced a two-out infield single behind second base with Gerald Perry at second. 
Perry, who was caught in a rundown between third and home, scored when catcher Jody Davis' throw hit him on the helmet and bounced toward shortstop. Home plate umpire Bruce Froemming, however, ruled that Perry interferred with third baseman Law and called him out. 

I 
I I I I I I I 
~ 
I 
L 
...--------------~---------------------~-­


Sports Wednesday 
page 17

Wednesday, April 6, 1988 
Bookstore Results and Schedule 
Bookalora Tournament TUESDAY'S RESULTS 
STEPAN 1 Long on the Yen over Ted and 4 Guys by t8 Kalarina, Wirt, A Howard Chick over No Guts, No .by5 Transport Phenomena over Pitt. Dallas, and 3 Other... by 8 No Blood, No Foul ovet Oh My God! II Talks! by6 
STEPAN 2 Tofu's Last Gig over John McGrath and 4 Others by t5 L•ons of the Tribe of Judah over Just Shillelagh 
by 14 
The All Bndget McGuire's Team over The Mouthfuls by lor1e« late •Night at Bob's With an RA over Raging 
Panhandles by t 0 
STEPAN 3 Malicious Proee<:Uilon over Just 5 Guys by for­feit Carver High over AU Seriousneoo Aside by 17 A Couple of Hacks over 5 Guys Who Eat Urinal Pucks by 11 Air Checl< arid Ground Support over Jolos by 
9 
STEPAN 4 4 Couch Potatoes arid ... over 5 TV Evangelista Who Don't... by 8 Stationary Motion over You'd Censor II Anyway by 10 Dukes of Slam over UDF by 10 lou's 2 OB'o... over The Greasy Pork Send­wicheo by t5 
STEPAN 5 We're Pathetic So... over The Quartet That Couldn't Count by for1e11 Mike Jones and 4 Guys... over Doobage Masters by 12 Red Death & the Jammin' ... over Give the Ball 
to H... by 20 Rich, Dan, & 3 Other... over The Great Ute Hope by 14 
STEPAN II St. Michael's Shrinks... over Golden Showers by 15 
Orange Bloaaom Special over laaf Year We 
loaf to... by 14 Silly English Pigdoga over YYZ by 10 The Zone over Winners Buy by 8 
BOOKSTORE 9 4 RA's & a Guy ... over An Ox, Dog, Buzz, and 2 Moms by 7 Stony island Ave. over Oh Heck! We Slink! by 16 
The Grungemasters over Howard Women: Past 
& Present by 10 La Came Caliente over Bruce Babbil & 5 Other ... by 9 
BOOKSTORE 10 Emotionally Exhausted... over 5 Marines That Shoot... by 12 
Jamaican Bobsledders over Business Majors 
Who Dolt... by 15 Ferrence & 4 Guys... over The Merry Mats by 14 
5'10"-6'4" with Afros over Gimme Some of That by 8 
LYONS 11 AFROTC Aying Irish over Fix Bayonets and Charge by 18 FlOOr laimbeer over 5 Guys Who to the Hole ... by I Dentiey, lemleiux, TO... over Things Fall Apart by forfeit 
LYONS 12 5 Guys Who Can Lick tha ... over Magna non eat... by 4 Tha Fun Bunch over Otters from Hell by 15 Tequila While Lightning over Jimmy Swaggart ... by 12 5's All Around over Guys 2, Chicks 195 by 14 
WEDNESDAY'• Gamea 
STEPAN 1 
4:00 -Szy's StaKions VB. Spuds 
4:45 ·Mind the Gap va. Dead Chicks Revenge 
5:30 · Butterball & the Colorado... VB. The Ex· 
ptosive Packages ... 6:t5-The Wet One ... VI. 800 lbs. of Slow White CeKuiHe 
STEPAN 2 

4:00 • Townies in Teddies VB. Society ot Men Engineers 
4:45 • Grumpty & the 4 Dumps vs. A SMC Chick, Doormat... 
5:30 • The Bumblebees VB. Bonita Banana 
6:15 • Minahoonles VB. Bed Company 
LYONS 12 
4:00 • Solomon's Soccer ... VB. Dogged by the ... 
4:45 • Swaggart, Reagan ... vs. 4 Studs & UMOC 
5:30 • larvae: Boon or Bane vs. Banevolent Butcher's... 
6:15 • 3 Players & 2 Coaches vs. Air Boredom 
STEPAN 3 
4:00 • lakers vs. Sons of 2t1 
4:45 · 5 Guys Born to Hang VB. SKOAD Men 
5:30 -KinkoidB VB. Cocky Frosh 
6:15 • Forceable Unconstrained ... vB.look Who Bought... 
STEPAN 4 
4:00 -Madison Ave. Hoobers vs. Main G's 
4:45 -5 Really Bad Guys ... vs. Plugs Players 
5:30 • We Always Play in the Rain vs. Air Bran· nan 
6:15 ·Bob Vecker ... vs. We'll Do A Shot Every ... 
STEPAN 5 
4:00 • Gee Mark, I Like ... vs. 1 Spud, 3 Saints ... 
4:45 • The MBA's VB. Hard Enough to .. . 
5:30 • 3 Dunks & 2 Oinks vs. Whubus .. . 
6:15. A Few Good Wastes ... vs. A Republican, Democrat... 
STEPAN8 
4:00 • The Skirts vs. Team No. 69 
4:45 • 4 Guys trom Air Loomer vs. The Wedge, Hooter ... 
5:30 • "P" Boys VB. Greg Talbot & 4 Excuses 
6:15 ·A Pilot & 4 Guys ... VB. Da' Stepbrothers ... 
IIOOKSTORE I 
4:00 • 5 Marines Who love... VB. Tank & the Fun Boys 
4:45 • let Nigoraki Coach VB. Watering Hole ... 
5:30 • Yeah Boyil vs. Adwork's All Stars 
6:15 • The Dudes with Moves vs. Hitler arid ... 
BOOKSTORE 10 
4:00 ·Worm Dirt vs. Vermin Cong 
4:45 -Boinkers VB. S5 tor 1 Game 
5:30 • 5 Guys ... Study Abroad VB. 5 Guys Dan­cin'... 
6:15 ·Off the Glass vs. lucabrasi & 4 HH Men 
LYONS 11 
4:00 ·We Have the Tools ... vs. Mad latin lover 
4:45 • Debl Gibson's First 5 ... vs. If We Score... 
5:30 • 4 Drunks & Driver vs. Yikes, I'm Sitting .. . 
6:15 ·Never, Ever Mix ... vs. Blood, Guts, Gore.. . 

Sports Lists 
fiCTIVE Mfi)O~ LEAGOE~S WttO ttfiVE fiPPEfi~ED IH fl SOAP OPE~fl 

Scoreboard 
RnuHa for Mar. 30 through Apr. 5 
!IaMbeII Dayton 3, Notre Dame 0 Notre Dame 12, Dayton 2 Notre Dame 3, Dayton 2 Dayton 4, Notre Dame 2 Notre Dame 11, Bowling Green 7 Notre Dame 5, N.E. Illinois 4 
NBA Standings 
E..tam ContaNnce Atlantic Dlvlalon 

w  L  Pet.  01  
y·Boeton  46  25  .648  
Philadelphia  32  39  .451  14  
New York  32  40  .444  14.5  
Washington  32  39  .451  14  
New Jersey  18  54  .250  26.5  
Central Dlvt alon  
x·DetroH  46  25  ,648  
x·Atlanta  45  26  .634  1  
x·Chic&QO  43  21  .597  3.5  
Milwaukee  39  31  .557  6.5  
Cleve!arid  34  38  .472  12.5  
Indiana  33  38  .465  13  

NHL Playoffs 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Adama Dtvlalon  
w  L  T  OF  
Montreal  45  22  t3  298  
Boston  44  30  6  300  
Buffalo  37  32  tt  285  
Hartford  35  38  7  249  
QuebeC  32  43  5  271  
I'Mrlck Dlvta lon  
NV lalariders  39  31  10  308  
Waah•ngton  38  33  9  281  
Phlledelplua  38  33  9  292  
New Jersey  38  38  6  293  
NY Rangers  36  34  10  300  
Pittsburgh  36  35  9  319  

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvtalon 

w L T OF Calgary 48 23 9 397 Edmonton 44 25 11 363 Wlnnepeg 33 36 t1 292 loa Angeles 30 42 8 318 Vancouver 25 46 9 272 
Noma Dlvtalon DetroH 4t 28 11 322 St. Loula 34 38 8 278 Chicago 30 41 9 284 Toronto 2t 49 10 273 Minnesota 19 48 13 242 
PLAYOFF SCHEDULE 
All aeries are beat ol seven. Second team has home-IC8 advantage CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norrfa Dlvtalon ChicagO VB. St. louis Toronto VB. Detrort 
Smythe Dtvlolon Loa Angeles va. Calgary Winnipeg vs. Edmonton 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dtvlalon Philadelphia VB. Waah1ngton New Jersey VB. NY Islanders 
Adama Dtvlalon Hartford VB. Montreal Buffalo vs. Boston OA Pia. 238 t03 25t 94 305 85 267 71 306 69 
267 88 249 85 293 85 298 82 285 82 285 81 
OA Pta 305 105 288 99 310 71 
359 68 
320 59 
269 93 294 76 327 69 345 52 349 51 

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Baseball at Northwestern Men's tennis at Michigan State Women's tennis at Northwestern 
Thursday No sports scheduled 
Friday Men's tennis at Southern Illinois Track at Texas Relays 
Saturday Women's tennis vs. TOLEDO Lacrosse at Kenyon Baseball at Xavier (2) Men's tennis vs. Louisville and Bradley at Carbondale, Ill. 
Track  at  Texas  Relays  and  Purdue  
Relays  
Sunday  

Baseball at Xavier (2) Women's tennis vs. PURDUE 
Monday No sports scheduled Tuesday Baseball at Purdue Men's Tennis vs. EASTERN MIC­HIGAN 
Golf WNtem Conterance Mldweal Dtvtalon
3rd at Purdue Invitational
NL Standings 
w L Pet. OB

Pat Mohan tied for medalist honors 
NATIONALLEAOUE Dick Connelly, 11th e..t w L Pet. OB 
LacroaM Chicago 1 0 1.000 
Notre Dame 17, Michigan 7 
New York 1 0 1.000 

Notre Dame 11, Lake Forest 6
Pittsburgh 1 0 t.OOO Montreal 0 1 .000 Philadelphia 0 1 .000 Tennla St. louis 0 1 .000 Men 
WMI 

Notre Dame 5, Hawaii 4 Ball State 7, Notre Dame 2
Cincinnati 1 0 1.000 Houston 1 0 1.000 San Francisco 1 t .500 11.! los Angeles 1 .500 Irish Lacrosse
1 11.! Atlanta 0 1 .000 1 Sen Diego 0 1 .000 1 

PLAYER, POSITION 
Tueeday'a Reoutta 

John Olmstead, A
Pittsburgh 5, Philadelphia 3 Houston 6, San Diagp 3 Brian McHugh, A Chicago 10, Atlanta 9 (13 limlngs) Jeff Shay, A los Angeles 5, San Francisco 0 
John McNicholas. M Tom Lanahan, M Dave Carey, A
AL Standings 

Mike Quigley, M 
Dave Kidder, M Eaat John Campana, M w L Pet. OB 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Doug Spencer, D 
Detroit 0 1.000 

Art Brady, M
Milwaukee 0 1.000 New York 

0 1.000 John Burtis, M 
Toronto 1 0 1.000 Mark Healy, A Baltimore 0 t .000 
.000 Rob Lynn, A 
Boston 0 1 

Pete Gillin, M
Cleveland 0 1 .000 WHI Mark Brady, M 
Eamon McAnaney, D 
Chicago 1 0 1.000 

Dave Barnard, D
Oakland 1 0 t.OOO Texas 1 0 1.000 

Mark Rizzieri, M 
California 0 1 .000 Randy McDonald, D Kansas City 0 1 .000 
Kevin O'Connor, D 
Minnesota 0 1 .000 

0 .000 Brendan Cahill, D
Seattle 

Matt McQuillan, G Jeff Glazier, G Tueld•y'a Reaulla NOTRE DAME New York 8, Minnesota 0 
OPPONENTS 
Seattle at Oakland, tate x-DaUas 46 25 .648 

x~Denver 48 26 .639 .5 
X·Houoton 41 29 .588 4.5 
x·LIIah 40 31 .563 6 
San Antonio 27 44 .380 18 
Sacramento 20 52 .278 26.5 
PIICIIIC Dlvlalon •·LA Lakers 54 17 .761 X·Portlend 44 26 .629 9.5 x-Seatt\e 38 33 .535 16 
Phoenix 23 47 .329 30.5 Golden Stele 17 53 .243 36.5 LA Clippeoa 16 55 .225 38 
Through Tuesday PTSG-S Shots G Pet A 
8-8 8-8 8-8 8-1 8-8 8-0 8-0 5-0 8-0 8-8 7-7 8-7 4-0 6-0 8-1 8-0 8-0 8-1 6-0 8·8 6-6 8-1 
7-7 
3-1 
8 
8 
47 
42 30 
44 
42 12 33 12 6 3 16 6 5 5 
5 
3 2 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 
330 207 
lAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
' 1 ~ . .. 1 1, \, .· 
,. ' ·' . I , I ' ,... 
I_-~\~·.. d//'1 L~-~ ---~~~----/
'·~~~-..... --~~~ 
OOtllDI:I\IIDJIUMII.OitJIIDIWITHAitTOfCIWUtODOC\ 
25 
15 15 10 8 3 6 4 4 0 1 1 2 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 
97 53 
.532 
.357 
.333 
.227 .191 .250 .182 .333 
.667 .000 
.063 .167 .400 .200 
.000 
.333 .500 1.000 .000 
.294 
.258 
15 
9 
5 
6 
3 
7 
3 
1 
0 
4 
2 
2 
0 
1 
2 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
61 25 
40 24 19 16 11 10 9 
5 
4 4 4 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 
0 0 
0 
158 78 



.. 
page 18 The Observer 
•

Irish defensive line receives some rare pra1se 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame defensive line, which perhaps was more criticized than any other area of the football team last season, is receiving much praise for its performance in the beginning of the spring drills. 
Spring [)_] Football 
1988 / 

In last Wednesday's scrim­mage, highlights included two strong stands by the first-team defensive line against the first­team offensive line. The defen­sive front's performance had Head Coach Lou Holtz singing its praises after the scrim­mage. 
"(George) Williams and (Jeff) Alm had excellent days," said Holtz. "Our ends played well, they really showed up for this scrimmage. We're a lot quicker on defense than we are on offense in coming off the ball." 
First-year defensive line co­ach John Palermo is not about to get too excited, but he has shown much pleasure with the attitude his players have shown this spring. 
"We have a long way to go. We need to keep working on the little things. The players are working really hard, and I'm impressed with their attitude." 
The defensive line has had to contend with injuries and inex­perience during spring prac­tices. John Foley will miss all the spring after undergoing shoulder surgery, Chris Zorich has a knee injury that could keep him out for the rest of the spring and Bob Dahl has been out a week with an ankle in­jury. Palermo hopes to have Dahl back in action by Satur­day's scrimmage, and Bryan Flannery has returned to prac­tice after m1ssmg five practices with back spasms. 
Tom Gorman enters the spring as the only defensive lineman who will be a senior during the 1988 season, and is the senior member of a line that has many starting posi­tions open. 
"The older players we have are giving good leader hip to the younger players," said Palermo. "Other than Gor­man, we'll be really young up front. 
"At this point, I'd have to say we're unsure of who our starters will be. Aim's a strong candidate, and Tom Gorman's a strong candidate. They're the two strongest candidates right now." 
A host of other players also are vying for playing time, in­cluding both those on the in­jured list and those currently making names for themselves in spring practices. 
"George Marshall had a really good practice yesterday (Monday)," said Palermo. "He's a young player improv­ing, and I hope by the fall he'll be able to compete. 

"Before Bob Dahl got hurt, he was making improve­ments," continued Palermo. "George Williams at times has shown signs of being a good player for us. From an effort standpoint, Steve Roddy has made a lot of plays this spring. I've been pleased with his ef­fort and overall attitude." 
Palermo replaces veteran Irish coach Joe Yonto, who resigned at the end of the spring to take an administra­tive job with the athletic depar­tment, as the defensive lines coach. Palermo most recently served as defensive lines coach at the University of Minnesota for four years, working for two years under Holtz and two years under current Golden Gophers coach John Gutekunst. 
The 35-year old Palermo is one of five Irish assistants to move from the Minnesota staff to Notre Dame. Palermo also plans to help out in recruiting, focusing primarily on New Jer­sey and parts of Florida. 
"It was a positive experience (at Minnesota)," said Palermo. "When Coach Holtz came, the program wasn't in good shape, and two years after he came in, we went to a bowl game and beat Clemson in the Independence Bowl." 
EXTRA POINTS: Several players made position switches during Monday's practice. Split end Pat Terrell was tested at free safety, and Bobby Carpenter was practicing with the first team at split end. Tim Grunhard, who has seen most of his action as an offensive guard, practiced at center. 
Braxston Banks, who played fullback last season but had been practicing at tailback this spring, again was practicing at fullback. 

Kansas, Manning excel to win 'special' championship 
Associated Press with a game that summed up 
the Jayhawks' season. 
KANSAS CITY, MO.-Kansas' Manning finished with 31 second NCAA basketball points and 18 rebounds in the championship was something 83-79 victory over Oklahoma. special. But it was the way he scored 
The Jayhawks won it Monday the big points and the way he night on a near-homecourt that avoided his fourth foul to had never been friendly in title remain on the court that games. They did it over an old showed how valuable he was all 
foe and one considered the bet­ter team. 
There were players making contributions, some on the court and some off. There were more losses than any other champion. 
There was a coach who is talked about in terms of moving, making moves that will be talked about. 
Finally,  there  was  Danny  
Manning.  
And  he  is  the  reason  that  

Kansas was so special Monday night. 
The two-time All-American ended his collegiate career 


Ballparks 
continued from page 20 
nesota; May 4-5 vs. Texas; May 12-15 vs. Cleveland. Mez­zanine seats are $10.50 and for another half-dollar you'll get the Deluxe Mezzanine, enclosed by glass and heatedlair-conditioned. For more economical seating, box seats are $10, lower grand stand is $9, upper grandstand is $6.50 and the bleachers go for $4. County Stadium is right off 1-94 and has a vast $3 parking area suitable for plenty of tail­gating. Call 414-933-1818 
Tiger Stadium is the home of the Detroit Tigers. The Tigers are looking to repeat as cham­pions of baseball's toughest division. Tiger Stadium will celebrate its 76th birthday on April 20, when the Tiger Stadium Fan Club will sur­round the structure for a "hug­in." How cute. 
Tigers' home dates: April12­14 vs. Texas; April 15-17 vs. Kansas City; April 19-21 vs. Boston; April 26-28 vs. Califor­nia; April29-May 1 vs. Seattle; May 2-3 vs. Oakland; May 13-15 vs. Minnesota. Box seats are $10.50, Reserved granstand seats are $6, while the bleac­season. 
"I don't think he ever played a better game," said his father and Kansas assistant coach Ed Manning. 
Manning picked up his third foul 25 seconds into the second half. Coach Larry Brown didn't remove him from the game and it proved to be a great move eight minutes later. 
Oklahoma took its largest lead of the game, 65-60, with 
12:13 to play. 
Manning's fellow senior Chris Piper hit a jumper to pull the Jayhawks within three. Manning then scored the next seven Kansas points-the last two on a nice hook shot-around a 3-pointer by Mookie Blaylock, and the Jayhawks had the lead they never gave up. 
"I knew he wanted it bad, and he came out here and proved that tonight," Okla­homa's Stacey King said after the game. "He had 18 rebounds and did a good job defensive­ly." 
Manning had five steals, and his play-with three fouls-was a major reason King and Harvey Grant, Oklahoma's leading scorers, were held to a com­bined eight points in the second half. 
But it wasn't Manning alone. 
Piper had eight points and seven rebounds and he teamed with Manning on the inside defense. Milt Newton had 15 points and Kevin Pritchard added 13. Clint Normore had seven points and four asists in 16 minutes. Scooter Barry hit a big free throw with 16 seconds left. 

hers go for $4. 1-75 will take you Indians and their cellar­into Detroit, while the Rosa dwelling. But they do playParks Boulevard exit will bring baseball there, and that's goodpoint you towards the stadium enough for this column. at the corner of Michigan and Indians' home dates: April8­Trumbull. Call 313-962-4000 U_vs. Baltimore; April12-14 vs. 
Municipal Stadium is the Mmnesota; April 19-20 vs. home of the Cleveland Indians. Texas; April 26-28 vs. Seattle; Jokes about Cleveland aren't April 29-May 1 vs. Oakland; nearly as fun as jokes about the May 2-3 vs. California. 
Coach Digger Phelps 
along with 
David Rivers, , Scott Paddock, and Joe Fredrick • 
present BBC Film on MEDJUGORJE•
• 
Thurs. April 7, 1988 8:00 p.m. Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Knights of Immaculate 

Brown figured out how to stop the Sooners, the second­highest scoring team in the country. He slowed it down after playing a first half that was to Oklahoma's liking and ended at 50-50. 
"I wanted the kids to under­stand that we had to work the clock, run some plays and get a little organized," Brown said. 
The final minutes found Oklahoma making a charge that was snuffed by four free throws by Manning in the final 14 seconds. 
So Kansas had the title only 35 miles from campus. But Kansas City had never been kind to Kansas before. 
The Jayhawks, who were 8­point underdogs, had played three championship games there before Monday night and lost each of them. 
The Jayhawks lost both regular-season meetings with Oklahoma, the champions of the Big Eight. They had nine other losses and that total is one more than any champion had before. 



Summer Sessions at Indiana University at South Bend May 16-June 27 July 5 -August 15 
For your copy of the schedule 
call 237-4455 ,}: ~ IUSB Admissions Office ~ 1700 Mishawaka Av:_~ 
------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 
19 

11:30 a.m.: Economics department labor workshop with Frank Wilkinson, Cambridge University, Room 131 Decio. 
Noon: Kellogg Institute and O'Neill Chair in education for justice seminar, "Costa Rica's Development Strategy: Four Competing Models," by David A. Crocker, Colorado State University, Room 105 Law School. 
12:10 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 2 p.m.: Women's Tennis vs. Northwestern University, Courtney Courts. 
3: 30 p.m. : AerospaceMechanical engineering seminar, "Dynamic Testing and Analysis Techniques used at Livermore National Lab for Large Structures," by Dr. Joseph Weaver, Livermore National Lab, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 
4:20p.m.: Physics colloquium, "Status of Electroweak Unification," by William Marciano, Brookhaven National Lab, Room 118 Nieuwland. 7 p.m.: Career and Placement Services presents "Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out the Profile Form," by Kitty Arnold, Room 123 Nieuwland. 
7:30 p.m.: Faculty Conversations on Connections: An Historical View of the Development of Science and Technology, Room 118 Nieuwland. 8 p.m.: Department of music concert, Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble, Washington Hall. 
8 p.m.: African studies Biko-Stewart film series, African Dance, "Dancing Through West Africa," and "African Dances: Celebration at the United Nations." Center for Social Concerns. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Fried Catfish  Turkey Cutlet  
Stuffed Shells  BBQ Beef  
Sailor Sandwich  Broccoli Cheese Pasta  
Pasta Bar  Deli Bar  

Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JMt advertising. ~ 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Pounding instrument 
7 Art school 11 Gym pad 14 Turning 
machines 15 Egg 16 According to 17 Willows 18 Pacific bird 19 Middle: abbr. 20 Duration 21 Dug in 24 Sea eagles 26 Type of farm 27 Desist 30 Posed 32 Misbehave 33 Strange 34 Woodland 

deities 37 Coral ridge 40 Very important 42 Excited 44 Ollie's friend 45 Held in check 47 Country letters ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
04/06/88

48 Tennis item All Rights Reserved 50 May Day 51 Asocial one 11 Rapid-fire 53 "-Is Born" weapon 55 Haunts 12 Change 57 Cave "icicle" 13 Not on time 60 Yield 22 Snuggles up 64 -up (dress) 23 Landmark 65 Fratricide stone heap 66 Marauder 25 Remainder 68 Before 27 Police 69 Fleuret 28 Work on copy 70 Alto or bass 29 Benefits 71 Legal thing 31 Passage 72 Soviets 35 Swiss river 73 Arab chiefs 36 Sault -Marie 

38 Other 
DOWN 39 Terror 1 Scheme 41 Actor Ryan 2 Abate 43 Otiose 3 To-do 46 Antiseptics 4 Motifs 49 Kind of 5 Gaelic sea bullet 
god 52 Of singing 6 Ger. city birds 7 "You -!" 53 Fall flower 8 State firmly 54 Amass 9 Sahara sight 56 Rhymed 
10 Reparation writing 

04106188 
62 Antlered 
animal 63 Flubs 67 Intent 


Comics , 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

Deqr l11o111. _. 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

Clt988 Un11,eru1 Prna 

NDAVEAPTS. 


LEARN 
SPECIAL SUMMER RATES AVAILABLE 

CPR,

. also renting for Fall 
CELEBRATE YOUR GRADUATION IN STYLE South Bend's Historic Art Deco Train Station is a 

PLEASE.
2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Great Place for Your Graduation Party. We have 
Toke o lolesovtng Red Cross CPR course

halls to accomodate 25 to 600 people. 
CALL 234-6647 

+American Red Cross
CALL 233-2876 

Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency 
m 

20 

Nice weather aids Bookstore seeds 
By PETE SKIKO Last Gig explained that despite the relative ease of his squad's
Sports Writer 

21-6 drubbing of John McGrath 
Bookstore Basketball's 17th and Four Other Guys ... , edition chugged along last stamina was still a problem. Wednesday and again yester­"It was hot, but that was day, as first-round survivors of probably good for us," said the monstrous tournament set Hanley, whose Tofu squads their sights on the round of 256. have been a major contender 

for the Bookstore title the last three years. "Conditioning is our biggest weakness right now, and we've got to get into a little better shape. But other­wise, things went pretty welL
Unseasonably warm, humid The things we experimented

weather and long, 21-point games gave many Bookstore with worked OK, even though participants a somewhat un­we let up some after we got complimentary look at their ahead by a lot." physical condition. Tournament Commissioner 
"I thought I was in the best Mike Manning reports that the shape of my athletic career procedings have come this far before break," mused an ex­withvery few hitches. hausted Brian O'Gara after his "It makes it easy when I've 4 RA's and a Guy Working Off got a lot of assistant commis­Service Hours broke up An Ox, sioners with a lot of experi­a Dog, Buzz, and 2 Moms, 21-15. ence," said Manning, a sopho­"Maybe it was all the chocolate more. "I wish I had something in my Easter basket, but I felt dramatic to say, but things about ready to hang it up when have gone really smoothly. We we were tied at 3-3." had a couple of forfeits today, 
Seeded teams fared well yes­but that's it." terday, as seeded teams Tequila White Lightning, one Vladimir Prokln of the USSR and Italy's Claudio usually do in the early rounds, of last year's final four Rubino square off In the finals of the sabre com­
but they felt the heat as well. 

petition at the Junior World Fencing Champion-Matt "Bingo" Hanley of Tofu's see BOOKSTORE, page 13 

NO, DeCicco host Fencing Championships successfully 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
With 28 foreign countries' flags hanging from the JACC rafters, the Junior World Fen­cing Championships were begun with opening ceremonies fit for the Olym­pics. 
The Championships, which began early in the morning on Thursday, March 31, would last all the way to Monday, April4, occurring during the Notre Dame's entire Easter break. 
The tournament was atten­ded by the top junior fencers of each country, comprising some 200 athletes. Accompanying these athletes were numerous coaches, trainers, and families. 

To qualify for the Junior Worlds, besides having to be the best of their country, the fencers had to be under the age of 20. 
"It was a tremendous suc­cess," said tournament direc­tor and 27th-year men's coach Mike DeCicco. "I am always amazed by the cooperation that we get from our student body and community. The support was the greatest thing that could have happened." 
The opening ceremonies started off the Junior Worlds in style. On Thursday night, each country's team took its turn marching up to center stage and being acknowledged by the playing of their national an­them. 
Following the processions, two fencing demonstrations were provided for the audi­ence. At the conclusion of the cermonies, people present knew that they were going to see many world-class bouts in the nights ahead. 
"I really appreciated all the support that we got from the student body and community," said DeCicco. "There were several times when people from the community would come through when we needed them. 
"I just wanted to express my gratitude to the student body and the heartwarming response they showed to the fencers. There's nothing I wouldn't do for them." 

Finals for fencers in the foil weapon were held Friday night, which was the best at­tended competition of the tournament. People packed the fieldhouse stands to see the best junior foilists in the world. 
The audience witnessed Al­exander Koch of The Federal Republic of Germany defeat Thomas Endres of the same country. Alessandro Puccini of Italy took third. 
Sabre finals were held on Sat­urday night, in which Vladimir Prokin of the USSR defeated Claudio Rubino of Italy. Ger­man sabreman Jochen Knies placed third, and Notre Dame's own Leszek N owosielski finished 21st. 
Had Nowosielski, a freshman in his fourth Junior Worlds, finished in the top 20, it would have given him a chance to qualify for the Canadian Olym­pic Fencing team. 
The women fencers, who only compete with the foil weapon, had their finals on Sunday night. Anja Fichtel of Germany retired Elena Glikina of the So­viet Union for the champion­ship. Third place went to Diana Bianchedi of Italy. 
Anne Barreda, a sophomore 
see FENCING, page 15 
•


A guide to baseball 1n the Great Midwest 
Play ball! 

On Monday, umpires across the country barked out that oh-so-familiar commencement to the na­tional pastime. 
There are few things better in the world of sports than a day at the ballpark. You've heard the apple pie phrases before, but its no exaggeration. The wonderful fragrance of peanuts, hot dogs and spilled beer fill the air and combine with home team rooters to create an atmosphere conducive to the die-hards, the bleacher bums or the family. 
Some of my greatest memories growing up come from those twice-a-summer trips to Fenway Park in Boston with my family to take in a Red Sox game. There I could see grown men acting out my child­hood dreams--making a game-saving catch, drilling a fast ball over the Green Monster in left field, leading the Red Sox to a World Championship (OK, OK, they were dreams). 
While some may look at the calendar and fret that only a month remains to get rid of those D's, the more optimistic should see a month of oppor­tunity to take in a day at the ballpark at one of the not-so-far-away big league ballparks. To give credit where it is due, the idea to print this guide to road­trip baseball came from Notre Dame grad Chuck Freeby ('86), who wrote a similar column for Irish Items in April, 1986. Freeby now is a sports broadcaster for WNDU-TV and will undoubtedly make his mark in the world of sports journalism. 
Wrigley Field is the home of the Chicago Cubs and the mecca of major league baseball parks. Au natural grass, ivy-covered walls and bleacher bums make Wrigley a baseball heaven. Brouhahas over installing lights for night games resulted in eight night games for the Cubs this season, which will be announced shortly before the day of the game. 

Brian O'Gara Irish Items 

Cubs' home dates: April 15-17 vs. Pittsburgh; April19-21 vs. Montreal; May 6-8 vs. San Francisco; May 9-10 vs. Los Angeles; May 11-12 vs. San Diego. Box seats are $10.50, Terrace reserved are $6, Upper deck reserved are $5 and the chance to catch a tan or an Andre Dawson tater in the bleachers is $4. You can find the promised land by cutting off the Dan Ryan early to avoid the construction and heading up Lake Shore Drive to Irving Park and Wrigley signs. Call 312-281-5050 for ticket informa­tion. 
Comiskey Park serves as home to the Chicago White Sox and is another top quality park in the Windy City looking for a better-than-mediocre team to play in it. It doesn't have ivy, but Comiskey is another fun, family ballpark which is also the oldest in the big leagues (78 years). That age and the Ryan mess are creating a stir with Sox owners, who are licking their chops over a dome being built in St. . Petersburg. 
Sox' home dates: April 6-7 vs. California; April 8-10-vs. Seattle; April21-24 vs. Oakland; April26-28 vs. Boston; April 29-May 1 vs. Baltimore; May 2-3 vs. New York; May 13-16 vs. Toronto. Box seats are $8.50, Mezzanine seats are $6.50, Reserved grand stand is $5.50, and general admission seats are $4. The best way to get there is probably by parachute, but it'll be worth it. Call312-924-1000 for tickets. 
County Stadium is the home of the Milwaukee Brewers. Easily accessible and home to a dandy bratwurst with red sauce, Hank Aaron began and ended his illustrious career in this ballpark with the Braves and the Brewers. 
Brewers' home dates: April15-17 vs. New York; April 19-21 vs. Baltimore; April 22-24 vs. Boston; April 29-May 1 vs. Kansas City; May 2-3 vs. Min-
see BALLPARKS, page 18 
.. 





