Autumn returns 
Mostly sunny and warmer 
today, with increasing 
cloudiness this afternoon. 
High in the upper 50s to 
IACCENT: Endangered diners 
IVIEWPOINT: NO Republicans deceitful 
lower 60s. 


VOL XXII, NO. 46 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Bush, Dukakis call for support 
Associated Press 
George Bush said Wednes­day that voters should pick a president who reflects their hopes and dreams for America and proudly proclaimed, "I am that man." Michael Dukakis urged supporters to "keep pouring it on" in a drive for an Election Day upset. 
Republican Bush and Demo­crat Dukakis made their rounds six days before the voting while all around them the pace of campaigning quick­ened. 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole was going to three states during the day in a bid to help endangered GOP can­didates for Congress. Sen. Ed­ward Kennedy countered for the Democrats by campaign­ing in Minnesota, where Hubert 
H. Humphrey III is a Senate race underdog. 
Officials in both parties agree Democrats are likely to retain control of both houses of Congress after next week's bal­loting, although Republicans harbor hopes of winning enough close Senate seats to reduce the current 54-46 Dem­ocratic advantage. 
President Reagan cam­paigned in Ohio, where he tried to turn Dukakis' "On Your . Side" rallying cry against the Democrats. They're "on your side when they want to get their hands on your wallets," he said. 
John Howard in Owensboro, Ky., set up a sort of drive­through poll at his Crickets Classy Car Wash, and said the results were about even. Cus­tomers could drive into a bay named for the presidential can­didate of their choosing. "It's very scientific," he said. "The margin of error is 100 percent." 
As usual, Dukakis' aides said their private polls were encour­aging. As usual, the public polls A game of catch? seemed to be pointing to a Re­
•

publican victory next Tuesday. 
Andy Heft juggles his way into the dining hall at 

23 faculty, 10 administrators join Saint Mary's for 1988-89 
Special to The Observer 
Twenty-three faculty mem­bers and 10 administrators have joined Saint Mary's Col­lege for the 1988-89 academic year, according to Brett McLaughlin, the College's public information specialist. 
The business administration and economics departments have welcomed Madelyn Young to the position of visiting instructor of economics. Young received her M.A. from the Notre Dame and is currently a doctoral candidate at Georgia State University. 
Lecturer Anita Jacobs has also joined the business depar­tment. Jacobs received her Ph.D. from Georgia State Uni­versity, and she was an adjunct professor at Indiana Univer­sity. 
The chemistry department recently appointed Su-Min Oon as assistant professor. Oon was a postdoctoral research associ­ate at Trinity College in San Antonio, Texas. 
Carolyn Weber, a lecturer at Saint Mary's since the spring 
see FACULTY, page 5 

Congressman tells of '88election, Haiti situation Democratic 
Single issues dominate process slow voter interest in election

but nearing in 
By KELLEY TUTHILL country or are they simply a Staff Reporter divisive factor fragmenting the troubled Haiti body politics and splintering"This is an election year and our political parties?" he
By JOHN O'BRIEN your vote would be asked.
News Staff 
appreciated--illegal, but appre­The biggest single issues of The current state of political ciated," Rep. James Oberstar this presidential election are upheaval and the history of na­(D-Minn. ) joked with an audi­pro-life and gun control, said tional strife in the island nation ence Wednesday night in the Oberstar, adding that the fur­
Hesburgh Library auditorium, lough issue has been very im­of Haiti was the subject of a referring to himself.

lecture by U.S. Congressman portant in this election. 
James Oberstar on Wednesday. Oberstar delivered his lec­In his lecture, Oberstar listed 
Oberstar (D-Minn.), who ture, "Election Year Value abortion and gun control as ex~ taught English to Haitian mil­Conflicts: Your Vote and the amples of single issue conflicts itary personnel from 1959 to Politics of Single Issues" he has faced in the past. "I give 1963 and is considered before a small group that in­you those examples of reaVlife Congress' foremost authority cluded his son Ted, a Notre to show you that when fe'd by 
on Haiti, explained the prob­Dame junior. deeply felt emotions and con­lems in Haiti with a Creole "For twenty-five years I've cern, their primary effect is it 
proverb. seen single issue politics grow can literally rip a political
and become more sophisti­

"Behind the mountains, party to shreds." 
cated," Oberstar said. 

there are more mountains," A recent phenomenon said Oberstar, explaining the "I've raised the question, are related to single issue politicssingle issue groups an expres­was something Oberstar called 
seemingly constant struggle 
for order in Haiti. sion of the historic american the "Me ,First Principle." This 
value and the historic tradition 
of freedom of speech in this

see HAITI, page 6 see VOTERS, page 4 
/ 


page 2 
OF INTEREST 

Career and Placement Services presents "How to Conduct an Effective Mail Campaign," tonight at 6:30 in Room 124 Hayes-Healy by Paul Reynolds of Career and Placement Services. Students of all majors are welcome. 
-The Observer 

A representative from Habitat for Humanity is at the Center for Social Concerns to answer questions about this post-graduate opportunity. -The Observer 
Coverup, a documentary film on the Iran-Contra affair, 
will be shown at 4:30p.m. at the Center for Social Con­
cerns. -The Observer 

Grace Hall Debates continue tonight at 9:00p.m. in The Pit in Grace Hall. The issue: "Surrogate motherhood is an immoral means of acquiring a child." -The Observer 
The Investment Club will hold a presentation on "Real Estate and Acquisitions," by Nancy Mumaw and Edward Ahdswede of the DeBartolo Corporation at 7:00 
p.m. in Room 220 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
M.B.A. Studies is the topic of a lecture by Dean Robert Weddick, College of Arts and Letters, on Thursday at 7:00 
p.m. in Room 122 Hayes-Healy. All interested students are encouraged to attend. Sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society. -The Observer 
A Fireside Chat featuring Native American students will take place today at Noon in the ISO lounge, LaFortune. Lunch will be provided. -The Observer 
"Black Images", a variety show dedicated to the images of Black people in America, will be held Friday, Nov. 4, at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Everyone is encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
An Andy Warhol Film will be shown at the Snite Museum by the Student Art Forum at 7:00p.m. tonight. All are welcome. A meeting of the Forum will preceed the movie. -The Observer 
CPA Review There will be a presentation by Conusier, Duffy, and Miller tonight at 7:00p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. -The Observer 
300 Rice Student Tickets Needed to allow mentally handicapped adults to attend the Nov. 5 game. Students can drop off their tickts in the dining halls or the Center for Social Concerns until this Saturday. -The Observer 
AnySophomoreinterestedintheSophomoreCommittee Chariperson for Junior Parents' Weekend position can ap­ply in the Office of Student Activities, LaFortune, by 5:00 
p.m. on Monday Nov. 7. -The Observer 
Communion & Liberation, Notre Dame, invites all to attend a presentation about this popular Italian move­ment now in the U.S. at 4:00pm. this Sunday in the Library Lounge. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Deaign Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Annette Rowland Viewpoint Layout .............. Laura Manzi Deaign Auiatant . . . . . Kathy Gliwa Accent Editor ............ Trisha Chambers Accent Copy Editor.. Michelle Berninger ~~~~-~~~"-r~.:::::: ..~r~~~~.~~~~~k~~j;~~ Accent Designer. .. .. .. .. . Michael Conway Newa '!!:\mar ......... ... Kendra Lee Morrill Typi!! .. .. .. .. Will Zamer .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. ............Regis Coccia ........................................ Diane Bradley Copy EditOT..... .. .......... Paul Jackson ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey Sparta Copy Editor............ Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ....... .. Maura Reidy Viewpoint CopJI Editor . Ann Hebenstreit Photographer.. ................ Heleni Korwek 
Tile ~... (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tile ~« is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed f« S40 per year (Sl5 per sernester) by writina ne ~«. P.O. BoK Q, Notre o.me. lndiaDa 46556. ' 
Tile ~is • manber of Tk .u.odlllell rr-. All reproduction ri&hts are raerved. 
Thursday, November 3, 1988
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Hello, I'm ... tired of all these new names 
The University shouldn't admit any more people named Pat, Mike, Ann, or Chris. My life certainly would be a heck of a lot easier. 
I was excited about coming out from New York to study under the Golden Dome--excited about the hordes of new people I would meet. 
And meet tons of new people I did. 
The only problem was that for the life of me, I could not remember any of the names of all the people I was meeting. Well, actually, I could. The real problem I was having was that everyone I met had the same dozen or so names. 
Don't get me wrong. I think solid, traditional names like John and Jim are wonderful--it's just that they've become all-too-commonplace around this campus for pathetic name-droppers like myself to keep everybody straight, let alone establish relationships with them. 
I used to think that it was uniquely a freshman experience to forget even the names of the people who lived next door. 
I guess I was wrong. Now that I'm a sophomore, things have gotten even worse. 
It was convenient last year, when I was going through orientation and starting classes, to blame my ineptitude at remembering names on the fact that I was a new kid on the block, and I simply had things on my mind other than the name of the guy who sat next to me in calculus. 
A year later, I'm still forgetting names. The only difference between then and now is that now there are 10 times more names for me to forget, and I look 100 times more idiotic when I forget them, as my excuses for forgetting them grow older and more lame by the minute. 
Christine Walsh 
Copy Editor 
~0
~ ~ ~ 
But, I have a solution to this dilemma ... 
Nicknames. 

Nicknames are wonderful little inventions-­
they're fun, they're creative, they're stupid, 
and most of all they're one of a kind. 

Not only are they nifty, but they're functional 
too. 

Being a person of the general "Chris" cate­gory, I'm all for anything that saves me not only the embarrassment of forgetting names, but also the embarrassment of turning around every time I hear a random "Chris" being screamed across the quad by some "Joe" throwing a frisbee between Keenan and B.P. 
Just think of the possibilities--You could es­tablish a new identity for yourself, and drop the name your parents thought was sooooo dar­ling, like a lead balloon, all in one shot. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer .JMt advertising. )Mt 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 



FRIDAY, NOV. 4 8:00 PM Busses leave from ACC Gate 1 0 

TODAY LAST DAY FOR TICKETS 3-5 SOPH. CLASS OFFICE ·$5 PER PERSON 

_____ \ 
Thursday, November 3, 1988 The Observer 


Marcoses find millionairess to post I-melda's $5M bail 
Associated Press 
·NEW YORK--Imelda Marcos's quest for a benefac­tor ended Wednesday when tobacco heiress Doris Duke agreed to put up the $5 million needed by the former first lady of the Philippines to secure her bail on racketeering charges. 
Miss Duke will post more than $5 million in municipal bonds as bail for Mrs. Marcos, who is accused along with her husband, former Philippine president Ferdinand Marcos, of looting more than $100 mil­lion from their homeland. 
Lawyers said the bonds would actually be worth be­tween $5.3 million and $5.4 mil­lion depending on market fluc­tuation, although the exact · types of bonds were not revealed. 
"It was Miss Duke's idea to help," her lawyer, Donald Rob­inson, said after a hearing before U.S. District Judge John Keenan in Manhattan. 
Mrs. Marcos, 59, who has been staying in an $1,800-a-day suite at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, did not attend the court session. 
"Mrs. Marcos is extremely grateful and was tearful when she learned of the offer," said Robinson. 
The 75-year-old Miss Duke, Robinson said, is "happy to help a friend. She believes she (Mrs. Marcos) is innocent be­cause she knows that Mrs. Marcos didn't commit any crimes." 
Mrs. Marcos flew to New York from the couple's home­in-exile in Honolulu aboard Miss Duke's lavishly appointed private jet. 
All the paperwork regarding the posting of bond was not complete, and it was unclear how soon Mrs. Marcos would be able to leave New York. 

Students speak on LeMans renovations 
By ROZEL GATMAITAN News Staff 
Student input regarding the renovation of the Lemans Hall chapel dominated the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting Wednesday. 
Guest representatives of Saint Mary's Campus Mini­stry, Mary Feeley and Sr. Betty Smoyer, S.N.D., said the chapel was literally "crum­bling," and that replacement of the stained glass windows would cost close to $300,000. 
There is presently a debate over whether or not the chapel would continue services or be created into a place of private prayer, Feeley said. The basic concern, however, is to main­tain the tradition and beauty of the chapel, she said. Feeley stressed the need for support for the renovation project from tbe Board of Governance and all of student government. 
Members of the board responded positively to the renovation project. Lisa Hill, vice president of Student Af­fairs, ended the discussion of the LeMans chapel renovation: "The student concern is greatest for LeMans Chapel be­cause of its tradition and his­torical significance." 
John Gordon, an expert on John F. Kennedy, will lecture and give a presentation of films and slides on the former pres­ident. Gordon's presentation is slated for Monday, Nov. 21, in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's campus, one day before the 25th anniversary of Ken­nedy's assasination. 
Pulitzer Prize-winner in poetry Gwendolyn Brooks will also be coming to Saint Mary's. Brooks, a highly regarded scholar and the first black wo­man to win the Pulitzer, will lecture on the role of women and their importance in soci­ety. 
Positive feedback on the election information table in Madeleva Hall, as well as en­couragement to attend the Car­nival of Careers being held tonight in Angela Athletic Facility, ended the meeting. 

ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 1988 

"MOCK TRIAL" 
COACH DIGGER PHELPS WILL BE THE DEFENDENT IN A MOCK COURT CASE INVOLVING A DRINKING AND DRIVING CHARGE 
ALUMNI, FACULTY AND STUDENTS WILL BE PARTICIPATING AND WJLL BE DECIDING WHAT-DIGGER'S SENTENCE WILL BE 
' 
]RlTIHlOG-LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 





UDDER 
7:30 PM 
ngm£... BACchus
WITH A NEW 1VIlSI 
·· ---' -'• -· , .___._ AQWQRKS 
_ALL ADV61{Cisiry&"'l'AiD"R:ll\l>Y AWI1Jf)f-SCf)lCR, CLUB 
page 3 


Washington Monument Jr. The Observer/Heleni Korwek 
An obelisk erected before the South Dining Hall draws attention to Expo Roma. 
The Observer 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
DAY EDITOR 
For further information contact JIM WINKLER at The Observer (239-5303) 

~~~············ 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, November 3, 1988 


Voters 
be pro-life and pro death

Hebrew language allowed again in USSR 
penalty, we are asking people continued from page 1 to think about whether you 
Kremlin has dealt with the country's 1.8 million Jews, and they come in the context of an effort by President Mikhail Gorbachev to eliminate ran­corous issues that have histori­cally hampered relations with the West, especially in the field of human rights. 
As part of that effort, 1975 Nobel Peace laureate Andrei Sakharov is being allowed to travel to the West for the first time, and the Soviets· have reportedly agreed to release all remaining political prisoners 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The teaching of Hebrew, once punished in the Soviet Union as a crime, will be allowed again, an official of the World Jewish Congress said Wednesday. 
Officials also will allow So­viet Jews to participate in the congress, according to its ex­ecutive director, Elan Stein­berg, who met with high-level Soviet officials. 
Both steps would constitute major changes in how the 
' \ 


Space In-videos 
A video vending machine located in the basement students. 
Crime of the Week 
This week's Crime of the 
Week is the theft of computer equipment from the Computing Centeli'Math Building. There ·are three thefts that security 
believes may be related. 
The first theft occurred be­
tween Aug. 1 and Aug. 2, 1988. 
Thieves stole three IBM 
microcomputers, leaving the 
monitors behind. 
On Monday, Oct. 17, 1988, 
Computing Center staff dis­
covered the theft of an Apple 
computer keyboard, mouse 
and power supply. This theft 
happened sometime between 
Oct. 14 and Oct. 17, 1988. 
The third theft occurred on 
Wednesday, Oct. 26, 1988, be­
tween 12:15 a.m. and 4:55a.m. 
In this instance, a Macintosh 
SE computer was taken after 
the thief or thieves cut a secur­
ity cable. The Macintosh com­
puter is marked "M6" on top. 
CRlMESTOPPERS wants to know who stole these com­puters and will pay a cash reward up to $300 for informa­tion leading to the apprehen­sion of the person(s) respon­sible. 
If you have information about this or any crime at Notre Dame, call 288-STOP. ' You don't have to give your name and you'll be eligible for a reward. 
by the end of the year. 
principle not only refers to in­
World Jewish Congress Pres­
dividuals, but to powerful
ident Edgar Bronfman met for 
groups as well, he said. 
two hours Wednesday with So­
"(Members of special inter­
viet Foreign Minister Eduard 
est groups) have not yet seen
Shevardnadze, and later with 
America as a whole when they 
Konstantin Kharchev, chair­
have had to choose between be­
man of the Soviet State Com­
having like an American and
mittee on Religious Affairs, 
behaving like say coalminers
Steinberg said in an interview. 
or steelminers," he said. 
''Soviet authorities have now 
Oberstar said he is con­
agreed that the Soviet Jewish 
cerned that "we may be in dan­
community can participate in 
ger of drifting into 'rule or ruin' 
the activities of the World 
politics motivated by what I
Jewish Congress," Steinberg 
call the 'Me First' principle." 
said. 
"I think that increasingly 

people are having difficulty relating to a complex society that we built," he said. "It's much easier to retreat into the comforts of a single issue or a single group, where you don't have to defend yourself, where you feel comfortable . . . you don't have to compromise or explain anything, and you can pursue your own purpose." 
He said that in this electronic age certain organizations, re­alizing that there are many people who control us around the nation, get names and put them on hard disks, then the incumbent or the candidate can set up a mailing list or a phone bank. 
"We are asking people to think about whether you should 
BUY 
OBSERVER 


AUTHORIZI:D DI!ALI:R 
•ICYCL.S * •x•IICI..... * IIIIX HUDQUAIIT.IIS 
Rep. Pat Bauer 
should be pro-life and for a bil­lion dollar military budget,'' said Oberstar. 
Dave Lawlor, a sophomore who attended the lecture, said, "(Single issue politics) is an important issue because spe­cial interest groups can manip­ulate the voting process." He also said he thought the lecture 
was  interesting  and  
worthwhile.  
Sophomore  Angie Appleby  

said that we should be more concerned about the "long term effects of our narrow in­terests." "You shouldn't just vote on one issue without con­sidering all the realms of it," she said. 
The lecture was sponsored by Notre Dame's Community for the International Lay Apost­olate ( CILA), the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, the Institute for Pastoral and So­cial Ministry and the Depart­ment of Government and Inter­national Studies. 
Oberstar, a 14-year veteran of the House of Representa­tives, serves Minnesota's 8th District. He graduated in 1956 from the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minn., with bac­helor's degrees in French and political science. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIETY~
+ 
Re-Elect 
State Representative 
B. Patrick 

BAUER 
N.D. Graduate 
Democratic Fiscal Leader. 

Thursday Nove1nber 3 

Engineering Aud. 
8:00 and 10:00 $2.00 
HQ!y~ail 
F.RIDAY, NOVIMB.ER 4, 
SATUR.DAY, NOVEMBER 5 
THE 




Thursday, November 3, 1988 The Observer pageS 
Indiana's Orr gives Bayh 
' 
fA[\) 

poor grades on 'A+' program 

MOT 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Republi­can Gov. Robert Orr charged Wednesday that his "A-Plus" education reform program would be taken apart if Demo­crat Evan Bayh becomes governor. 
Bayh's campaign scoffed at the charge, saying the Demo­crat wants to give the educa­tion reform package "a decent interval" to prove its value. 
The charges and counter­charges flew as Indiana's in­tense gubernatorial campaign between Bayh and Republican Lt. Gov. John Mutz entered its last days. 
Orr and Marion County Pros­ecutor Stephen Goldsmith, Mutz's running mate, held a se­ries of six news conferences to defend the education reform package approved after a four­month debate in the 1987 Gen­eral Assembly. 
"I put every ounce of energy and political clout on the line to get 'A-Plus' enacted, and I don't want to see it torn to shreds," said Orr, barred by law from seeking a third 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 
of 1987, is currently a visiting instructor in the Communica­tion and Theatre department. 
Prof. Timothy Clark has been appointed as a new lec­turer in the Department of Education. 
straight term. 

The governor said Bayh "is doing a great dance on educa­tion," proclaiming he supports the state's reform movement while questioning key elements of the Orr plan such as widespread competency test­ing and the five-day extension of the school year. 
Bayh also is trying to have it both ways by supporting edu­cation reform while attacking the income tax increases that paid for it, Orr and Goldsmith said. 
"The problem has been we let Evan glide by being for edu­cation reform and against the tax increase," said Goldsmith. 
"I don't think we've put him in the tough position" of choos­ing between school reform and taxes, Goldsmith said of Bayh. 
Orr said if the competency testing program is changed, the reform package would lose the accountability Hoosiers were promised when they were asked to pay higher taxes to support "A-Plus." 
Orr also charged that the leadership of the Indiana State Teachers Association, which 
Three faculty members have joined the Department of En­glish. Rosalind Clark, visiting assistant professor, joins Saint Mary's from Texas A&M Uni­versity. 
Another new visiting profes­sor, Laura Haigwood, comes to Saint Mary's from Notre Dame, where she was an ad­junct assistant professor in the Program of Liberal Studies. 
supports Bayh, wants to undo some of the education reforms. Because of the union's support, Bayh would be inclined to sup­port their positions, Orr said. 
The governor has had a long­running feud with the ISTA leadership. 
Bayh campaign press secre­tary Fred Nation said that al­though Bayh has reservations about some elements of the "A­Plus" program, he thinks it should be given time to work. Nation said Bayh would prob­ably wait two years after taking office to see if major changes should be made in the program. 
"He would not go in as gover­nor and immediately stop this," said Nation. 
Nation called the governor's rhetoric ''another desperate at­tempt to scare Indiana voters" into supporting Mutz. 
Bayh has suggested refine­ments in the program such as giving more control to local schools and increasing spend­ing on programs for students at risk of failing due to social and economic factors. 
Professor Irene Leahy has accepted the position of lec­turer in the Department of En­glish. 
The mathematics depart­ment recently appointed one new instructor, Prof. Krystina Leganza. 
Six people have been added to the modern language depar­tment. Coming to Saint Mary's from the University of Califor-

The Observer I Suzanne Poch 

Protesters showed their dissent outside Stepan Center Tuesday as Vice President Bush delivered his speech. 
nia, Berkeley, Encarnacion Juarez has been named as a new assistant professor of Spanish. 
Richard Otto has also been appointed to the Spanish depar­tment as a lecturer. 
Lucia Massi, a visiting pro­fessor of Italian, is also a lec­turer with the Saint Mary's Rome Program. 
A new lecturer for French, Michaele Gauduchon, received her undergraduate degree from Angers University before attending Notre Dame for her Mary's alumna, Perry is an on­cology clinical specialist at Memorial Hospital in South Bend. 
William Young joins the Phi­losophy department as a lec­turer. 
Joseph Blount joins the de­partment of Psychology from the University of South Florida. 
Paul Ngo and Prof. Nancy Hansen also join the Psychol­ogy department as lecturers. Ngo received his Ph.D. from Notre Dame. 


graduate studies. An adjunct professor has 
Anita McCollester, formerly been added to the Religious an instructor at IUSB, is a new Studies department. Father lecturer of French. John Keegan is currently on a 
A new lecturer of-German is sabbatical from Maryknoll Marianne Hahn. School of Theology. He is study­
The nursing department is ing political science and inter­welcoming a new visiting pro­national relations at Notre fessor. Jane Perry. A Saint Dame. 
• Fine Stationery




Resume 
• Matching Envelopes 

Service kinko•se 
the copy center 
18187 State Road 23

For a resume that can do tl1e job, depend on Kinko's. 271-0398 
•
• • 


Come Join Us For 
Live DJ 
Current Dance Music 
Great Sandwiches 
*Student Discounts* open: Tuesday Saturday 
•
•

5 p.m. 3 p.m. • 
Across from the Marriott •• Free Parking in Senor Kelly's lot • •• 
ADWORKS 
.,•...........................................~. 

Thursday, November 3, 1988

page 6 The Observer 


Mrs. Bias speaks on drug, alcohol abuse 

The Observer /Heleni Korwek 
Lonise Bias takes time to address issues of drugs and peer pressure. See story at right. 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
Lonise Bias, mother of former Maryland basketball star Len Bias, who died from a cocaine overdose, spoke out against drug and alcohol abuse Wednesday night in the Joyce ACC. 
Invited to speak as part of "Alcohol Awareness Week," a series of activities sponsored by BACCHUS to promote re­sponsible use of alcohol, Bias opened her speech with four points she said she always presents to her audience no matter where she speaks. 
"One, I love each and every one of you with the uncondi­tionallove of Jesus Christ. Two, I see only beautiful Americans before me, not black and white faces. Three, I come to offend no man. And fourth, I care ab­solutely nothing about what anyone thinks of me," she said. 
Bias said she did not come to entertain people with the story of her son, who died from a cocaine overdose two days after he was drafted by the Bos­ton Celtics, though people love to be entertained. 
She said she came because "we treat the symptom and tonight I intend to get to the root of the drug and alcohol problem. Many think that des­ignated drivers treat the prob­lem, but they treat the symptom." 
Bias said she is on a "mission from God" to speak out against, not only drugs and al­cohol but peer pressure, premarital sex, and disobeying parents. 
She urged students in the au­dience to "not take your family for granted and to love your­self. The greatest love of all is the love you have for yourself. Happiness comes from a man knowing what's within him." 
Len Bias' death "will be your ticket to freedom," his mother said. "Len has done more in death than he could have ever done in life. God took one man to save millions." 
"how to deal effectively with negative peer pressure. If you stand up for what you believe, they'll talk about you to your face, but if you go along they'll still talk about you. Everyone is not your friend." 
Bias said she was disturbed "that you will turn your back .on the teachings from home of the past 18,19 and 20 years and allow someone to come into your life for a short time and forget everything." 
"Work on being the whole man; that takes much more than saying no to drugs," Bias said. "It takes character, courage and personality to be different. We have too many 
followers  and  not  enough  
leaders."  
Using  an  example  of  her  

other son Jay, who idealized his older brother, Bias urged the audience to love their family. 
"Words can't be called back'1, said Bias. "Be careful of the things you say to people. Dont take loved ones for 

Haiti 
continued from page 1 




r·······How·to·make··a·Elt·······l 
Michael Jackson's "Bad" granted. L.I.F.E stands for video was Bias' example in 'love is forever."' 
Since the ouster of dictator Jean Paul "Baby Doc" Duvalier on Feb. 7, 1986, Haiti has come close to its first taste 
* 
of Democracy. But the 
:* * 
country's first free elections * since 1957 were cancelled and it has endured a coup of former military leader Lt. Gen. Henri * Namphy by Brig. Gen. Prosper *
* 
Avril, a junior army officer. 
* 
Oberstar expressed his con­
* 
fidence that Avril, one of his 
* 
former students, will not back * down on promises of a : democracy as his predecessor * Namphy did. * 
Avril is much more in control ! than Namphy was, said * Oberstar, but "we've been ~ burned once, we don't want to 
* 
be burned again." 
~ 
"I told Avril, 'We're judging you by your actions, not by * your words,' " said Oberstar. ! He added that Avril's recent * announcement that elections ~ for local level government of­* ficials were being planned was * encouraging. ~ 
Oberstar said Avril had con­
* 
tacted him asking him for as­
* 
sistance in restoring order to !Haiti. He said he told Avril that 
* 
it is necessary to first elect the 
* 
lower level officials and then a 
~ 
legislature and president. 
~ 
"I have immense hope for 
* 
Haiti,'' said Oberstar. "We 
·* 
have more competence in process than in people and that : process is coming into place." 
* 
Oberstar denied the fear of a Communist takeover as moti­*
* 
vation for aiding Haiti. "The * traditional basic elements of * Communist appeal are not * present,''' he said, citing the *
* 
lack of need for land reform 
* 
and the absence of widespread *
* 
absentee land ownership. 
* 
Oberstar said that the United 
* 
States is helping Haiti by pro­* viding aid and by attempting *
* 
to relieve the burden of debt until the nation gets back to ** normal. He denied that mili­*
* 
tary aid will be part of the aid. 
* 
Oberstar said that it is im­* portant to help Haiti recover * because "It would be a tragedy *
* 
if we miss the opportuniy for a new constitutional Democracy **~ 
*
* 
t * 
f * 
) : 
* 
*
* 
*
* 

........,,.;M.•.•~•• ,·.,,••,e<,.....-._,,,,....w.·.w·. *
,,,•.•••.. ._,,,,,,._._._._,,, 
* 

The American Express~ Card is a hit virtually ! anywhere you shop, from Los Angeles to * London. Whether you're buying books, baseball * tickets or brunch. So during college and after, ! it's the perfect way to pay for just about * everything you'll want. ! 
How to get * the Card now. ~ College is the first * sign of success. And : because we believe in your * potential, we've made it easier for ! students of this school to get the * American Express Card right * now-even without a job or a ! credit history. So whether you're an * underclassman, senior or * grad student, look into ! our automatic approval * offers. For details pick up an * application on campus. Or call * 1-800-THE-CARD and ask for a ! student application. * The American Express Card. ! Don't Leave School Without It:" * 
t
*
*
* 
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 
* 
*
*
* 
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*

* . 01988 American Express Travel Relaled Services Company. Inc. **~ 
in our own hemisphere." 
t~*********************************************************************** 
Thursday, November 3, 1988 The Observer page 7 
Israelis confident of getting coalition 
Associated Press religious parties said a coali­
tion remained possible with 
JERUSALEM--Leaders of Labor and Foreign Minister 
Israel's right-wing Likud bloc Shimon Peres. 
expressed confidence they Demands by the religious 
could form a government and parties include strict rules on 
began coalition talks Wednes­observing the Sabbath and 
day with four ultra-Orthodox changes in the policy that ex­
religious parties that will tends automatic citizenship to 
decide who will govern the na­all Jews, including converts. 
tion. The toll rose in the 11-month­
Prime Minister Yitzhak old rebellion in the occupied 
Shamir's Likud and its allies West Bank and Gaza Strip, 
won 46 of the 120 seats in Tues­which was a major issue in the 
day's election. Labor and sym­election. 
pathetic left-wing parties won Soldiers shot a Palestinian to 
49, so either major party could death in the West Bank town of 
form a government with sup­Qalqiliya, bringing to at least 
port from the religious fac­306 the number killed since the 
tions, which won a total of 18 uprising began Dec. 8, 1987. 
seats. Ten Israelis also have been 
Two parties on the extreme slain. 
left won the other seven seats. Likud won 39 seats on its own 
The Alaska pipeline
Although Likud generally is in the Knesset, and Labor got more sympathetic to the Or­38, according to the nearly final Members of Lyons and Keenan Halls compete in thodox view, one of the main count of Tuesday's vote. the "Quest for the Crown" in front of the South 


Solidarity, Poland cooperate to save shipyard 
Associated Press nounced the unprecedented trade union said in a joint a monument just outside the The joint stance with the of­
cooperation with the rival resolution that, "The liquida­shipyard Friday. ficial union marks a reversal 
GDANSK, Poland--Lech official OPZZ trade union tion of the enterprise. . . is a W alesa said the common po­of Solidarity's earlier position
Walesa told a rally of nearly during the outdoor rally at the completely political decision sition reached by Solidarity not to talk to OPZZ, which was 
all the 10,000 workers at the shipyard where Solidarity because the financial position with the OPZZ "is proof the uni­set up in 1982 after the martial­
Lenin shipyard Wednesday sprang up during nationwide of the shipyard is advantage­ons can reach agreement at law crackdown on Solidarity.
that Solidarity and a strikes in August 1980. ous at the present moment. any moment provided we are Solidarity questions the inde­
government-backed union will The rally took place on the "One must not decide the fu­not set against each other by pendence of the official union, 
cooperate for the first time to first workday since the govern­ture of the Gdansk shipyard someone else." particularly at the national 
try to keep the shipyard open. ment on Monday revealed its without consulting the "We are united by this single level. The head of the OPZZ is 
The government, mean­plans to close the yard Dec. 1, workcrew. We will defend our goal--saving the shipyard," he a member of the ruling com­
while, announced a new ap­citing economic reasons. The shipyard." said. It proves "that pluralism munist party Politiburo. 
proach to Wales a by Interior move was denounced by ac­But Walesa appeared to rule is possible." Walesa said he believed Ra­
Minister Gen. Czeslaw tivists as a deliberate blow by out a strike for the moment. Ac­He added that he has kowski's decision to close the 
Kiszczak to start delayed talks new Prime Minister Mieczys­tivists said they wanted to received messages from all shipyard has ended hopes that 
between authorities and the op­law Rakowski aimed at his avoid creating any confronta­over the country that people the round-table between aut­
position on Poland's future. long-time nemesis Solidarity, a tion that might jeopardize the are willing to buy shares in the horities and the opposition on 
Walesa, leader of the out­charge Rakowski has denied. planned visit of British Prime shipyard in order to preserve Poland's future could begin
lawed Solidarity union, an-Solidarity and the official Minister Margaret Thatcher to it. soon. 



TALK. TO 
E BEST IN 
E BUSINESS 

WE'LL TELL YOU ABOUT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AND SUMMER INTERNSHIPS WITH ONE OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST FINANCIAL SERVICES ORGANIZATIONS 
•
Thursday, November 10 7:00PM 
Alumni Room of Morris Inn 

ADWOf~KS 

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 3, 1988

page 8 
ment fails to tap the full range of human resources, which leads to the alienation of the student from recognizing the stu­dent's role in the world. 
In order to survive as an education process, "Redefining Security?" demands student motivation and fac­ulty support. If you are interested in learning more about "Redefining Se­curity?," there will be an information meeting in the Lounge of the Center for Social Concerns at 6:30 p.m. on Thursday, Nov. 3. 
Jerry Duff Stanford Hall Nov. 1, 1988 

ND Republicans guilty of deceit 
Dear Editor: 
National politics descended upon the Notre Dame community this Halloween morning, and deceit soon followed. The hour of witching was at hand as a predominantly Republican crowd lined up to receive tickets for the Bush­Quayle pep rally in Stepan Center. The tickets became available not at the prescribed hour of noon (as advertised in advance) but at the revised hour of eight o'clock. Mr. Cassidy, director of student activities, when asked about the change, commented that, "the Bush forward-people thought it would be bet­ter." I was there, not because of any interest in the Bush-Quayle ticket but because I was infuriated at the conspir­acy surrounding the distribution. 
Merely ten hours before, a College Republican, mistaking a Young Demo­crat for a Republican, informed him that the time had been changed to guarantee the Republican slant of the crowd, and further that the Young Democrats group was purposely being kept in the dark. This morning as people quietly filed in, conspiracy turned to confusion as my Republican friends glanced at me (and the few others who could be informed at this late date) in disbelief with such quotables as: "Why are you here?", "Who told you?" and "How did you find out?" 
Perhaps all is fair in love and politics, but the phrase "Notre Dame commu­nity" won't mean the same for me again. 
James P. Dailey Dillon Hall Oct. 31, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"Drunkenness is not a mere matter of intoxicating liquors; it goes deeper--far deeper. Drunkenness is the failure of a man to con­trol his thoughts." 
P.O.· Box Q 
Candidates avoid deficit problem 
Dear Editor: 
If the polls are accurate, Vice Pres­ident George Bush is ahead in the presidential race. The polls also tell us that concern about the deficit, that $150 billion-plus monster that the Reagan­Bush administration created, is at the top or near the top of every voter's list. 
During his debate with his opponent, Governor Michael Dukakis, the Vice President waffled when asked about how he would reduce the deficit. In all fairness, so did Governor Dukakis. 
A week or so ago, Mr. Bush was asked again by reporters how the deficit should be reduced. His answer was in­sulting: "Now, I'm having trouble with these questions, because they are put­ting me beyond where I want to be, and so if I don't answer some of them from here on in it is because I am focusing on Nov. 8 and I don't want to be dragged beyond that because things seem to be going well now." 
In other words, Mr. Bush says that if he tells us the truth, he endangers his election. If he had the courage to tell the voters that it is impossible to reduce the deficit while adding new programs and refusing even to consider raising taxes, he might not be as popular. 
Mr. Bush talks about his "flexible freeze" program as the salvation for the nation's economic crisis. But when he was asked to explain it two weeks ago, he refused. 
There was a time, about eight years 

Doonesbury 
ago, when candidate George Bush at­
tacked Ronald Reagan's economic 
plans as "voodoo economic theories." 
They are no better now than they were 
then. If George Bush has a plan to save 
us from ourselves, he ought to tell us 
what it is--now, before the election. 
And while they are at it, reporters 
should press Governor Dukakis for 
specifics as well. 

P. Charles Martucci Associate Professor, Sociology 
Saint Mary's College Oct. 28, 1988 
Support the ND United Way drive 
Dear Editor: 

"United" is a word often associated with the student body at Notre Dame. We, the students, are also united to the community of South Bend. The United Way campaign drive officially began on our campus with the quarter-mile run held on Oct. 14. The proceeds from this event and others that follow are used by the South Bend Chapter of the United Way, donated on behalf of the students of Notre Dame. 
It is the hope of our committee that the students of Notre Dame will once again come together and contribute to this cause. It would show that we do want to interact positively with our sur­rounding community, South Bend, as well as show that we want others to have a chance to both rebuild and grow. 
Our goal is to have each student donate one dollar. When you stop to think about how easy this would be, the 

OH... AR& YOU 5/JR&, G&OR613~ I f)(;W'T RCAI.-­
...ANP THIS IS tuH&I<&~ HAVe NATtavAL 5EaJR.ITY {{)()NO/... MC&TIN65f 
/ 

1.-Y R/3CAU. eVER HeAR­ING YOU 5AYANYTHING. 
\ 
worthiness o"f this cause is clearly evi­dent. Simply give up food sales for one night or save that loose change. The Door-to-Door Campaign will officially begin Oct. 31. This involves an inter­dorm competition in which the dorm with the highest percentage of dona­tions based on population will be ac­knowledged and rewarded in an appro­priate way. During the weekend of Nov. 11, WVFI will also be sponsoring a dance with various door prizes raffled off, including a package trip to the USC game. Other opportunities for dona­tions will also be available. We hope that you the students will see the worthiness of this cause and will help us to help others ...Give to the United Way. 
Wendy Burek 
Executive Committee 

United Way Campus Campaign 
Oct. 31, 1988 

Course promotes active learning 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to describe a new and exciting course being offered at Notre Dame. The course is student-run and its content centers on the question of "Redefining Security?," which is also its name. "Redefining Security?" has two main objectives: to develop a dif­ferent method of learning through a pedagogy of students teaching stu­dents, and to examine alternative views of security in human relations. To ob­tain these two objectives, the course has been divided into two components: a weekly seminar and an independent study. 
In my experience, the formal class­room environment usually reflects some of the restrictive modes of thought present in the hierarchical sys­tems that guide world politics. Specif­ically, the formal classroom setting in­stitutionalizes the initiative to learn by teaching students how to question, while inhibiting the student motivation to actually question. 
In such a learning process, the stu­dent relies only upon abilities recog­nized in the formal classroom setting (test taking and paper writing), ignor­ing other imaginative qualities. As is evident on the world level, this leads to a stagnation of humane action. Conse­quently, the formal classroom environ-
Garry Trudeau 
WITH AUPUe 6&0/?{j/;., IF 
RESPeCT, 5/R, 7HitT80TH/3RBJ YOU IA/&R& Ya.J, YOfJ 5HOUW U9UAL-L-Y HAVe SPOKeN 
NOWING \UPLJK&A MAN! 
OFF. \ 
David Grayson 

--=-.1-=n _LAJM:c-=~c___ _ Editorial Board Operations Board
-~e-~~--:-~--­
Editor-in-Chief ............ ......................... Chris Murphy Business Manager ........................... John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managing Editor........... .. ...... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor.... .. .................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager ................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ......... ........................ Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager.. Bernadette Shilts 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor...... .. ........... Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ..... Mark RidgewayNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflecl the policies of Sports Editor ........ .............................. Marty Strasen Controller ............ ............................. Todd Hardiman the administration of either inst~ution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor ............... .......................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager . ....................... Marga Bruns possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Sandy Cerimele Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor.. . .................... Michael Moran space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
------------------------·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Accent 
Thursday, November 3, 1988 page 9 
The life of Fossey and her 'Gorillas in the Mist' 
BILL DONARUMA accent writer 
T 
he day's shooting of "Gorillas in the Mist" begins with an hour and a half hike up the mountains of Rwanda, Mrica, with a heavy load of film gear. Director Michael Apted then sets the scene once again, hoping that this time the gorilla won't charge at Sigourney Weaver. Sound wild? Twentieth­Century Fox and Warner Bros. have collaborated $24 million on Dian Fossey's pas­sionate and devoted struggle to save her beloved gorillas. 
This film is not just a Greenpeace promotion, for it is the story of Fossey's (Weaver) strength, convic­tion, courage, and most im­portantly, love. She began working for Dr. Louis Leaky, conducting a census of the gorillas and compiling ob­servational data, but then she befriended them, particularly those in "Group Four." 
Cinematically, Apted cap­tures astonishing and austere footage of the gorillas and their relationship with Fos­sey. Sure, he could have used clever editing or gorilla suits from the last Tarzan film, but edits are few and the gorillas are definitely real. The viewer is amazed not only by Fossey's accomplishments and courage, but also by that of Sigourney Weaver! She 

had to audition with these gorillas to establish her com­patibility. And that she did. Weaverbecomes Fossey with all the intensity, passion, anger, and love. 
It is also important to notice that the events portrayed manifest a psycho­logical and deep emotional development in Fossey. Some say that Fossey eventually went mad in her struggle, but this was never documented as being true and it was never the intent of Apted or Weaver to portray this. Fossey was, in fact, obsessed with her cause and love for the goril­las, but Weaver said, "She did become fiercely single­minded about what she thought could save the gorillas--it became very per­sonal. To me that's not mad­ness." 
Even with all that this film has to offer, I expected a 
Oct. 25--Nov. 1 
1. The Feelies "Only Life" 
2. 
They Might Be Giants "Lincoln" 

3. 
Siouxsie and the Banshees "Peep Show" 


4. Oingo Boingo "Live!" 
5. Billy Bragg "Workers Playtime" 
6. 
Let's Active "Every Dog Has Its Day" 

7. 
Game Theory "Two Steps From The Middle Ages" 

8. 
Huxton Creepers "Keep To The Beat" 

9. 
Poidog Pondering "Poidog Pondering" 

1
0. The Squeals "No Time" 


littie more. We do not hear about, or at least not enough of, Fossey's research that she compiles. However, we are allowed to observe enough to perhaps come to our own in­sights. We are therefore made a part of this film be­cause of our involvement in studying the gorillas on our own. There is, however, an eight-year gap in which no developments are made evi­dent other than Leaky's death. 
There is also a high strung and passionate segment with Fossey's lover which simply comes and goes without men­tion of her fiance in the States and without any more relevance to her womanhood than her stay in the jungle. 
These gaps in the film left me with questions about Fos­sey that needed to be an­swered. However, although her profile is left a bit empty, these aspects do not subtract from the chief objective of the film to convey the key moments of Fossey's crusade. Perhaps the producers had this directive in mind, since the running time is already 2 hours and 15 minutes. And 
Eat at Rickey's 
Diners become endangered species 
RICHARD THORNBURGH accent writer 
A
tradition is dying. A true 
piece of Americana, a 
whole way of life ... gone with 
the wind. Yes, I'm afraid the 
American roadside diner is 
becoming a thing of the past 
as our wonder bread culture 
increasingly turns to fast food 
for mealtime satisfaction. 
A self -proclaimed expert in 
this field, I've been studying 
these demographic trends in 
culinary choices for quite 
some time now. Believe me, 
folks, it's getting harder to 
find a good diner now than a 
bowl of grits north of the 
Mason-Dixon line, so you'd 
better experience one soon 
before they all disappear with 
the Studebaker. 
My interest in this field of 
study began several years 
ago at Rickey's Restaurant, 
the true mecca of diner food, 
in my hometown of Chat­
tanooga, Tennessee. 
The decor, service, and cooking at Rickey's are simply unparalleled and 
Calvin and Hobbes 
CM.'IIt-1, 'TAKE Cff 'fOUR oun:rr BEFOR£ 'ltiJ SIT 
A.T T\IE Tf..B\..£, CK? 
should serve as models for eating establishments across the nation. In the spirit of American pioneering, prints of John Wayne and other cow­boys on the range hang above each booth. From the ceiling and walls drape masses of plants that make no preten­sion to be anything but plas­tic. Best of all, the waitresses 
are the sweetest ladies who know the names of and the latest news about everyone in 
the restaurant. 
As for the food, you just won't find any better fried chicken or apple pie outside your grandma's kitchen. A vegetable menu and home­made rolls complement these basic American foods to put Rickey's at the pinnacle of diner cuisine. 
I didn't really mean for this to be a restaurant review, but the high points of Rickey's hold true for all diners. You can keep your plastic burgers in the styrofoam boxes--I'll take roast beef and fried ocra any day. And have you noticed all the fast food joints upgrading their image with the slick oak and brass look? Give me the genuine tack­yesque of an American diner, thank you. 
If you start searching for these roadside diners, a sure­fire sign is a line out the door at lunch of customers from · all walks of life. You'll see business executives in their gray flannel suits sitting next to plumbers because a good pork chop transcends all so­cial classes. 
A leading contender for diner prominence in the South Bend area is The 24-hour cafe affectionately known as "Fat Shirley's" for the plump proprietress. With the help of Joyce and Junior, Shirley will whip you up her famous Trucker's Special: two eggs, bacon or sausage Oinks or patties), American fries, and toast and jam. Now if that doesn't make you want to 
jump behind the wheel of a Mack Truck and head to Oklahoma, I don't know what will. 
Bill Watterson 
&lT SM£Nil005 
W..N I-1AS A STOMAO\ Of 
St£E.L! 


maybe I expected a bit much. an impact as Fossey made 
"Gorillas in the Mist" is a alone. Her story cannot, film not to be missed. (OK, should not, and has not been this pun is intended.) It not told here in this article. The only portrays one woman's only way to know it is to see struggle, passion, and fight, it. but also her strength in the world--a lesson we all need to "Gorillas in the Midst" is learn. Wall Street and all the now playing at Town and Apple engineers combined Country III at 7:30p.m. and will never make as important lOp.m. 
Thursday, November 3, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is
Classifieds
I 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The I charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
I 
STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE PleaN give me Penn St. GA'al HELPIII We desparalely need PSU tkts.· DIANE TRACY: You are one of the most CPA REVIEW RECEPTION CONVISER I NOTICES Apple Computer, Inc. Ia looking tor a Okay, I'll pey good money for them, but student & GA'sll x2607 incredible looking girls that I have ever DUFFY & MILLER THURS., NOV.3 I motivated, enthualutlc Individual to I really need 2 GA's. Call Kathleen at seen! P.S. Your smile is awesome,too. 7:00PM MONTG. THEATER LAFOR­
l 
be • Student Representative at Notre 283-4220. Need 2 Rice GA's. Ann, 2529. signed, An Admirer TUNE TYPING AVAILABLE Dame. Knowledge of Macintosh 267-4082 software products u -u •• owner­I NEED 8 PENN STATE TICKS WILL I need Rice TICKETS call 3436. CPA REVIEW RECEPTION CONVISER 
ship of a Macintosh Ia desired. You PAY TOP$$$ CALL 271-0904 "MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­DUFFY & MILLER THURS. NOV. 3 should be a freshman, sophomore or need PENN STATE GA 288-4160 PAIGNS" A PRESENTATION BY PAUL 7:00PM MONTG. THEATER LAFOR­1unlor and be marbling oriented. Wa I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS IN A REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­TUNE HALF PRICE COURSE require 5-10 hours (a -) of your BIG BAD WAY. ALL GA'S, ALL 20 OF I need 2 GA's and 2 Student tix for Penn MENT SERVICES. ROOM 124 HAYES GIVEAWAY time. YC>U will help organize and run THEM. THATS RIGHT-TWENTY. CALL St. Call Chris at 4478 HEALY CENTER. TONIGHT, 6:30 p.m. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL IIVenta u _, as put up posters and BOOGER AT 287-5871 TODAY. CALL STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS WEL­BUMP MRS. COKER 233-7008. distribute flyers. If you are Interested, TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A RICE BEATS NOll My parents think so. COME. AND 
plaau call 312-399-4903 and leave FREE GINSU KNIFE SET-DON'T I need 1 or 2 RICE GA's to prove them GRND Typing. Call Pat at 271-41118. Located your name and a time you can be DELAY-CALL TODAY !I! wrong. JIM x-2383 "MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­2 mi. north of Notre Dame. reached. PAIGNS" A PRESENTATION BY PAUL WITH 
I 
HELP! HELP! HELP! REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MadMacs RIDER WANTED to CO SPGSOEN My dad is a staunch N.D. supporter who NEED 3 PENN ST. MENT SERVICES. ROOM 124 HAYES NO HOCKEY Meeting leaving Dec HYI 7 after finals. Save $$ has seen N.D. edged out at P.S.U. the STUDS HEALY CENTER. TONIGHT, 6:30p.m. Thursday, Nov. 3 and see the country. Call Shane 1142 last two games. I want him to see us CALL BILL x4306 STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS WEL­FRI NOV4 7pm Am 226 Computing Center crush them, can you help me? I need 2 COME. 7:30PM Featuring Desktop Publishing GA's or 1 GA and 1 stud. Call me at 
l 
and other neat stuff 4935. 2 RICE GA'S FOR SALE "MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­SUPPORT THE IRISH The Notre Dame CALL NANCY AT 2141 PAIGNS" A PRESENTATION BY PAUL AS THEY FACE MICH-DEAABORN Macintosh User Group FOR SALE Need 4 RICE GA & 1 PENN ST Stud or REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MedMacs MENT SERVICES. ROOM 124 HAYES
GA. Call Maurine 2615. 
I DESPERATELY NEED ONE RICE HEALY CENTER. TONIGHT, 6:30p.m. To the liberal jerks and crybabies who
I 
APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­db desperately desires 2 penn state ga's STUDENT TICKET!!! IF YOU CAN STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS WEL­
tried to disrupt Bush's speech: you can
cluding keyboard, green-screen monitor, x2352 or x2375 HELP, PLEASE COME. 
save your breath tor FOUR MOREdisk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­CALL BETH X4021 YEARS because George Bush is going
pleworks word processor, blank data dis­I need many Penn St. GA'sl Call Pat James Dean James Dean James Dean
\ LOST/FOUND ) 
ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283-x1535 Stop by the LaFortune Ticket Sales from to run up the score against Michael 
Dukakisl

3481. Pretty please with a CHERRY on top (no 12-3 daily and meet James Dean LOST: A VIVITAA CAMERA IN BROWN NEED PENNST TICKETS CALL MIKE-pun, guys). I need four Penn St. GAs. James Dean James Dean James Dean I NEED PENN ST. TIX 2 GA, 2 STU Call LEATHER CASE AT SMC HOLY CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S 1628 Jeff x23n. 
JJ 1661CROSS SYR. SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER NEEDED: 2 XL T-SHIRTS IF YOU STOLE IT ... JUST GIVE ME THE $100.00? CALL FOR FACTS TODAY. HELPII Family coming to the PENN ST Looking for 2 Penn St. tix Please call # "CATHOLICS VS CONVICTS" HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LAURA AYANIIIFILM, PLEASE. JEFF X3580 602-837-3401. EXT. 881. game. I need 2 GA's and 2 Student tix. 1332 CALL 232-2051 EXT. 240. Yes Dear, I know this isMark x1937. 

late, but you should be used

1978 AMC Concord NEEDED: Two PENN STATE STUDENT 
NO-USC TRIP TIX FOR SALE 2n-4271 to me being late !II 
LOST: HELPII My dad was here for 2-d, P.S., Air, Auto, Mich tires Geraldo needs 6 GA's for 6 friends tor tickets. Call MEGAN 2577 Thanks! 
Love,the Air Force game and lost his new battery and brakes, excellent the RICE game on the eve of the 6th. 

NEED USC TIX 2n-4271 Peter
N.D. Letter Sweater at Sr. Bar tor student. GOOd car. , HE also needs 2 stud tix tor the altar NEEDED: One RICE GA, Please call If you picked one up by accident Call Chris 284-4288 boys. call SARAH X3736. MEGAN at 25n Thanks! 
SMC BUSINESS CLUB PRESENTSplease call Colleen at 272-5891 WALL STREET NOV 1-3 IN CARROLL IN ADDITION TO WISHING PATTYThis sweater is really important My parents would love to see the # 1 Anyone selling their RICE ticket? I'd love AUD 9&11 ONLY $1. CARLIN A HAPPY BIRTHDAY, ASKto him and he'd really appreciate RICE WEEKEND IRISH pounce on Penn State. I NEED 2 a GA, but would gladly settle for a student HER WHAT SHE LEFT BEHIND AT THE anyone who would retum ~-Thanks Rooms available next to campus GAs. Lisa. 233-6407. Thnx. • ticket!! Call Colleen at x4053. THANKSII GREED IS GOOD. see Wall Street Nov DAYS INN.
JAMISON INN (219) 2n-9682 1-3 SMC Carroll Aud. 9&11 $1 

I really,really,really need 3 RICE GA's a 2 RICE GA'S FOR SALE·CALL RON 
PATTY CARLINLOST: CALCULATOR TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALEI TWO whole lot. TOM 287-6053 Tell my stupid AFTER 8.00 PM AT 272-4583 Lunch is tor sissies. See Wall Street Nov HAPPY BIRTHDAY, YOU ROTCWould the guy who !loaned my calculator PRINCE SPECTRUMS PRE-STRUNG roomates to take a message it I'm not 1-3 Carroll Aud SMC 9&11 $1 Sponsored WENCH

to on Sunday (1M3) in the Library (2nd FOR $140 -NICK# 1423 there. by SMC Business Clubs LOVE, ALL YOUR ROOMIES
floor) please call me. x3885. I MUST HAVE A PENN STATE TICKET Technics Turntable SL-BD2 For Sale­WILL PAY BIG $$$$ CALL STEVE
Yo' Skeezer11-Papa Bear needs 2 GAs Attention SMC FreshmenLOST:BUNCH OF KEYS AROUND NO Jay '1910 X1801and one Stude lor Rice. Big Biz Man Clue # 2 Red, Red Paint h Red 
PATTY CARLIN, WHY IS YOUR NICK­hu his Mojo workln and needs tlx lor November 12POST OFFICE. PLEASE CALl JUU NAME ROTC WENCH? DOES IT HAVE 239-6335. 1966 VOLVO Great Town & Winter Car FOR SALE: 2 RICE GA'S BEST OFFER 
alunky time. Tallgater lnvheslncluded 
ANYTHING TO DO WITH A COUCH? I$800.232-3438 Before 1Oam After 7pm BY 1V4 CALL x3nt
In the package. Call Rill Randle at 
DON'T KNOW. ASK HER. EVEN BET­x4508 to gat on the party train. Peace PlaceLOST IN THE HUDDLE TEA, CALL HER 2632 HAPPY B-DAY,BROWN LEATHER PURSE. WARNING: HELPIII 
11. He just said a funeral, he sounds ROOMIE.
MY USC-NO PACKAGE FOR SALE# 1370 I NEED 3 PENN ST. TIX WILL PAY$$$$
C'MONI I KNOW I CAN SCROUNGE UP kind of down. 12. Happy wants to get
CREDIT IS NO GOOD! PLEASE CALL MEG AT 284·5087! 
Rockin' Bryan here with a change ABOUT 8 STD. TIX FOR THAT into Trouble 13. Is that sky or water? 14. PATTY, HOW OLD ARE YOURETURN ANYTHING YOU CAN'T USE. 
HOLOCAUSTAL RICE GAME CALL Baby bonies bein born.
CALL LISA AT 239-5474 OR 288-8733. in plans. Need to sell 4 Penn I NEED 4 RICE GA'S PLEASE CALL 15 Watch the TODAY?(20) IS THAT WITH OR WITH­NO QUESTIONS ASKED. State tickets ... SOON! OUT THE DRINKS? HAPPY B-DAY
NICK AT 3247 mailboxes on the right 16 I keep thinkin 
284· 5231 GAIL OR MEGAN
...........................-..................................... that's my stomach 17. Yeah, we all ex­
CALL 1167 ROTC WENCH. WE LOVE YOU 
I need Penn St. GA's ... TOP $$$ pected to lose weight in Appalachia. 18.
LOST: Light-brown teddy-bear w' green RICE STUDENT TIX GUARANTEED! Call Andy, 1930. Okay, who brought the 8-tracks? GOOD LUCK MICHAEL MESSAGLIA
ribbon on I Oo29 at Carroll Haunted FOR SALE House; responds to "Cookie";very sen­CALL SUSY 284-5444 SWIM FAST TONITEI GET A's ON 
I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S SO SENIOR BLOCK PARTY FRIDAY, NOV
timentsl,catl 4666 YOUR TESTS/
TICKETS 

THAT THE NITTANY LIONS CAN 18 COME CELEBRATE WITH YOUR 
F & C, LIZ LOSE TWO MORE DIE-HARD FANS. CLASSMATES AND RESIDENTS OF
LOST -Seiko watch before Oct. break. REWARD. Jeff at 3151. I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 
CALL X4652 SOUTH BEND SENIOR BLOCK PARTY/ GAMES.272-6306 SENIOR BLOCK PARTY/ ZETO & THE HEAT-ONS-A PLAID LOST: GOLD BRACELET IN ROOM 6, PERSONALS GUITAR THREE CHORDS AND THE O'SHAG OR NORTH DINING HALL ON WANTED: SIX RICE GA's, count 'em, 6 
PLAIN AND SIMPLE. I NEED RICE TIX. CLUB 23-The beat stuffed plzz In town. TRUTH, THE REST IS UP TO YOU BE 
LOU 289-4315 Groups -leoma. 234-3541
THURSDAY, OCT. 27. CALL ANITA AT will pay CA$h... call Frank N.D. CANDY AT BRIDGET'S THUAS 7-9:30 
4953. or Aob-3137 Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White
I NEED 2 RICE GA'S MIKE 4113 After Notre Dame beat Miami, a friend DON'T GIVE A DAMN BOUT ANY
Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check HELP! Someone picked up my new L.L. TRUMPET PLAYIN BAND THATS NOT
of my brother, a Notre Dame Alumni was 
to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 Bean Flying Tiger leather jacket during I NEED TWO PENN ST. GA'S. ANY WHAT WE CALL ROCK 'N ROLL
I NEED Penn State stu. tix. $$$ in his glory. 4 day's later he got laid off
S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741· the Halloween party at Senior Bar Sat. PRICE X4418, # 847 P.E. 
call John # 1806 after 20 years at Xerox. What does he
1338. 
want? A "Hate Night at Notre Dame" or AND
night. Any info call Mike at 287-5502 no ZETO THE HEAT -ONS BACK 
"Cathloics vs. Convicts" T-shirt. Come
questions asked. Please roturn ij-H was I have 2 Rice GA's, willing to trade them FROM OUR SABATICAL IN SOUTH­
NO HOCKEY VS. MICHIGAN­
HELP! I need 2 Rice GAs desperately on, help an Alumni out. If you've got one HERN INDIANA. TIME OFF HAS GIVEN my only warm jacket. plus $$$ lor 2 Penn ST GA's. 
DEARBORN,Call Tina at x4846 to sell call x3263. US THE SPIRITUAL STRENGTH TOCall Stacy at x3771 FRIDAY NIGHT 7:30. 
PUT ON A ROUSING SHOW. COME TO LOST: Ruby ring on South Quad. If found, BRIDGET'S TONIGHT 7-9:30 
BADLY in need of 9 Penn State tix 5 THE MOST IMPORTANT FILM 
stud 4 GA call 1767 evenings YOU WILL SEE THIS YEAR. ..
please caH 2731 and ask for Katie. NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE $$$$$ 
CALL SHEILA-271-9365 CRY OF REASON EAT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS/ PLEASE
PENN STATE TIX WANTED
Need 2 Penn St. tics-GAs or studs name THURS. 11110 7:30PM at CSC
LOST: a double stranded freshwater PATRONIZE THE AMNESTY INTERNA­
GA OR STUD TIX PEARL BRACELET at the MORRISSEY I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S I TIONAL CONCESSION STAND ON THE 
$$-call Doug # 1478 
CALL 234·104B .... jen. FORMAL last friday. Has great sentimen­Preferably together. FIELDHOUSE MALL BEFORE THE 
tal value/ H found, PLEASE call Beverly Call Sharon at 288-2314. 
Need Two Penn. G.A.'s and will pay un­AF ROTC FORMAL BALL RICE GAME limited green stuff Call 232-9541 and Sat, Nov 5 at x2605. 
hi ag.
leave message FUN & DANCINGIII 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL MEETING LOST: 4 PENN GA'S NEEDED II WILL PAY ANY 6:30 ON SUNDAY AT THE CSC DEAN
SOPHOMORE BARN DANCE!!
NEED 1 STUD & 4 GAs(PENN ST)
Royal Blue Book Bag AMOUNT WITHIN REASON. CALL TIM LINK OF THE LAW SCHOOL WILL Taken from the So. Dining Hall at 1616 OR BRUCE 313-628-4300 B-5p.m. Melissa x2707 TO THE SAINT MARY'S GIRL whose SPEAK ON HUMAN RIGHTS IN CHILE,FRIDAY, NOV 411 
BONFIRES! DJI HOT CHOCOLATE! Lunch on Nov. 2. If contains Arch. SOUTH AFRICA, AND THE U.S.
friend from Mich St. was up on Fri. 1MB
tics on Nle In claN office In LaFor­stuff, etc. PLEASE RETURN CASH CASH CASH 
NO-USC TRIP TIX FOR SALE 277-4271 and gave me and my buddy a ride from 
tune, Nov 1-3 btw 3-5 $5 per person Tracey x4032 I Need 2 Rice GA'a or m~ mom will kill LIES I 
Campus View, !left my blue bookbag in 
COME JOIN THE FUN!! me. Call Dan at 3365. 
NEED USC TIX 2n-4271 her car. nyou have it please call Jeff at 283-2061 t.1~iii~··;;;;;;;;;;g··;~ ..t.io·ii~;;i~:-.;;;:~;;~ NEED 10 USC TICKETS CALL 284-5010 
NEED RIDE-BAY CITY-NOV 5 PAT needs a ticket for PENN STATE'(eijher 
LEAVE MESSAGE We need a new name
GREEN 1440 GA or student) Please call Beth x1264. But we're gonna play at Bridget's
FOR RENT 

NEED TWO (2) PENN ST. GA'S--MY 
Thu. Nile, 7-9:30 anyway ZETO & THE Don't Buy the Bush LlelQUEST FOR THE CROWN
DAD WILL PAY YOUR TUITIONII MIKE
DESPERATELY SEEKING 8 pen state HEAT-ON$
Oct. 31-Nov.2 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-tix Please call 44951 P .S. We play really gOOd songs ATIENTION Regina 3N
x1817 2111-7153. Your own special RA Ia having a HELP MEl I NEED 1 PENN TICKET! 
NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX. $$CALL x2133. birthday on Saturday, Nov. 5.
A week-long adventure to capture the PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 TO THE I.S.O BANQUET COMMITIEE
glory for your dorm! 
I need 3 Rice GA 's. Call Ken or Sly at ANYONE want a USC plane ticket? call
AND NEED RICE, P-ST GA TIX. ALSO NEED # 3122 OCT.31·NOV.2 THE COOKS-THANKS A MILLION Ill Cathy# 1674
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bad 'N BI'Midut 
I need 1 student ticket tor Rice. Call
A.F. PROGRAM. CHRIS x1073 FROM: THE BOARD MEMBERS
juat 20 mine. !rom ND. Ideal tor al NO 
Monica at # 267 4 YOU WANT TO FEEL GOOD???I/
actlvhlea. Re_... now. 618-471-5711. 
I'LL BUY ANYTHNG THAT EVEN CLOSELY RESEMBLES TICK­FOR SALE: 2 RICE GA'sll CALL KERR! contests,tournaments,movies, ride Cols. area to DONATE YOUR RICE TIX-TO CSCIII
PENN games, Need to OH 1 V4 ETS (1 OR 2). CALL LAURA 3756. dances,pertiesllll 11Al.$$Have Mercy.OSU football sux
AT x2156 QUEST FOR THE CROWN Dave x2034 BRING BACK THAT LOVIN' FEELING 
I NEED PENN GA's--will US GO TO THE USC GAME AND NOW DONATE YOUR RICE TIX TO CSCIII 
WANTED 

HELP!! OUR PARENTS FINALLY LET 4 ST. pay Mon, Oct.31-Fri, Nov.4 
mucho dinero $$$$$$111 Please call Bob 
at x2321 and we'll talk/ INTERESTED IN WORKING FOR THE OPPORTUNITY IN THE TRAVEL IN­
ALL WE NEED IS AT LEAST 4 TIX TO 

OBSERVER? DUSTAYI THE GAMEl CALL JULIE AT 4351 OR 
IT'S COMINGIII ROSE HERRMANN IS 21 TODAYIII 
AMY 271-9885 The big 0 needs a day edijor for WISH THE SCREAMING CHICKEN AThe # 1 college tour operator is looking 
Thursday afternoons. It you are free from 
HAPPY BDAY, AND WEAR YOUR

lor an efficient, responsib and organized SEX DON'T MISS !Til 1 to 5 p.m. on Thursdays and want a
SEX SEX SEX SEX MONEY RAINGEAR TO BRIDGET'S 
campus representative to market a DESPERATELY need 2 RICE GA'sl Will cool job, call Jim Winkler at 239-7471.
MONEY $$MONEY MONEY Call Shana LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES! TONIGHT ... 
Spring Break trip on campus. Earn free pey $11 Please call collect after 6 pm.
at X2691 , offer her 2 Rice tickets and

trips, and good commissions while 513-531-3192. Thanks. 
HELPIII I desperately need a ride to exit
listen to what she'll oftor you/ ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUMgaining great business experience. For 22 on the PA turnpike for Thanksgiving. PRESENTS PROF. DAVID LINK, DEAN more information call 1-BOQ-999-4300. TOPS FOR GOOD SO. CAL. SEATS.
I NEED 4 RICE GA'S PLEASE CALL Can leav&tetum anytime II Will share ex­NOTRE LAW
OF DAME'S SCHOOL,

NEED 2-41. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT CARNIVAL OF CAREERS V
284-5231 GAIL OR MEGAN pensest driving! Call Aileen x4975. SPEAKING ON "HOW I THINK YOUHIRING! Government job11-your aru. (805) 1148-1181. LEAVE MESSAGE. 
SHOULD PREPARE FOR LAW
S15,0CJ0..$88,000. Csll (802) 838-8885, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3RD, 3-6 SCHOOL," MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7 AT Ext. 11282. I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S-DAN x4115 want 2 Rice tix-needn't be together Mark P.M. ST. MARY'S ANGELA ATHLETIC JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS LAST 7:00P.M., FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE. ALL 3278 FACILITY CHANCEII DOGBOOK PICTURES ARE INVITED.
SPRING BREAK TOUR PROMOTER­I REALLY, AEALL Y NEED TWO STU­THUAS 4:30-8:30, FA! 4-7 AM 002 ESCORT Energetic person, (IM'), to DENT TICKETS TO THE PENN STATE I need 1 Rice student ticket. Call# 1647. Is anyone driving to or near Milwaukee LAFORTUNE EVERYBODY COME!! take algn-upe tor our FLORIDA tours. GAME.CALL CHAD at 1580. on 1V4 and back 11Al, I NEED a ride. 
A young knave buill like a pillar On Friday got loaded with Miller So we put him to bed And he PUKED on his spread NowWelumlah an materials lor • aucceu­Need 2 Rice GA's call Mike x3235 Will share expenses. Please call Chris BRAD, SO YOU'RE 19 NOW-DOES 

tut promotion. Good PAY and FUN. we need PENN TIX/1 2 GA's would be at x2923. THAT MAKE YOU SPECIAL OR SOME­the room's stench Is a KILLER! HAPPYCaH CAMPUS MARKETING at 1-800-really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call Two Rice tix for sale 272-5095 THING?ISN'T CAADLEROBBING BIRTHDAY JON
n7·2270. walter x2151 or michelle x2844 IS ANYBODY GOING TO DAYTON THIS AGAINST THE LAW? sean,paul,bung,kreg,mike,dan,hal
DESPERATE WEEKEND, NEXT WEEKEND, OR ANY HAPPY BIATHHDAYI I JUST HOPE sphincter,jim, and chef pud2Ga's Desired for Penn, just 2-Will pey PENN ST. TIX NEEDED NEED GAs and I NEED 10 PENN STATE TIX, GA OR WEEK-END? WILL PAY$. CALL MARY YOU $$$. Call Wendy at 2845474,soon STUDENT TIX call CHRIS or PAT 2053 STUDENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME I'D 284-5128 OR 5117 SAW THIS ON YOUR OWN! LOVE 
or KAY 4853 APPRECIATE IT/ CALL TRISH M 284-CAISI Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT. for 5056. WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? only$80.00 a month,starting right I NEED 2 RICE GA's PAEFERABL Y TO­WHAT DO THEY DO? HELP, CATHOLICS VS. CONVICTS 
see CLASS, page 13 

now.Cal~3476. GETHER. CALL 3023 OR 2999. NEED PENN ST TIX TERRY 4013 COME SEE ... EXPO ROMA'BB SHIRT NEEDED. CALL CRIS X4565 
--------~---~--­
Thursday, November 3, 1988 
The Observer 
page 11 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Pep Rallyfor the Rice game will be held Friday in Stepan Center at 7:00 p.m.--The Observer 
, 

lnterhall Ice Hockey teams may sign up for first semester practice ice times on Monday, Nov. 8 at 1:00 
p.m. at the ice rink. The cost is $50.00 per hour and time is limited to one hour per week. Telephone reservations will not be taken until2:00 p.m. on Nov. 8. Any questions, call Tom Carroll at 239-5227.--The Observer 
Basketball season tickets will be distributed this week to only those students who applied earlier for tickets, continuing with freshmen today. On Friday, those students who did not apply but still want tickets can wait in line for the 2,000 remaining season tickets. -The Observer 
The USF&G Flag Football Drive to Cure Paralysis is scheduled for Friday, Nov. 11 through Sunday, Nov. 13. The entry deadline is Monday, Nov. 7. Teams may register at Non-Varsity. Call239-6100 for more details. -The Obser­ver 
The NVA scuba meeting, will be held Wednesday, Nov. 9. The brief informational meeting will be at the Rockne Memorial room 218 at 6:30p.m. Classes will start the following Sunday. -The Observer 
• -•••••••••••••••••••-~
' 

Positio11 available. Immediate opening. Inquire within. 

l.s not an easy life. In places from Chicago to Bangla­desh, you'll serve the poor and 
rich, the aged and young, the 
edocated and uneducated. The life demands prayer. hard work and vision. The rewards are great...even in this life. You will have opportunities to develop your potential. You will con­
tinue the work of Christ, share His mission and respond to 
world needs. There is no joy in this world to compare with that. 
By the witness of our lives, Brothers serve in: Missions, 
Education, Social, Pastoral. Health Care, Youth and Retreat 
Work. Farming, Maintenance 
and other trades and profes­sions that help to strengthen Christian Community. 
For more information. 
Contact: Brother Don Gibbs, C.S.C. P.O. Box 460 Notre Dame,lndiana 46556 219/233-2191 

'HOLY CROSS 
BROTHERS$ 
Associated Press 
KOKOMO, Ind.--Jay Ed­wards, practicing with the In­diana basketball team but not officially reinstated, seems to be trying to straighten himself out, says Coach Bob Knight. 
Edwards, the Big Ten Con­ference freshman of the year last season and Indiana's top returning scorer, was suspended this fall while he was in a drug abuse program. 
Now it's up to Edwards to make his rehabilitation stick, says Knight. 
"I said to Edwards, 'You're in a position where you are doing one of two things. You're either really working to try and straighten yourself out, and I'm not convinced of that nor will I be for some time, or you 
are really trying to fool people. 
"And if you are trying to do that, the person you are trying to fool the most is you." 
Knight still won't say whe­ther Edwards will be reinstated to the Hoosiers' bas­ketball team, but he says he hopes Edwards' problems will serve as a warning to others. 
Edwards lost his basketball scholarship for academic and disciplinary reasons after last season. Then before classes began this fall, he was suspended for .the unspecified drug problem. 

"The current status of Jay Edwards is that he practiced today. He practiced yesterday, and off his performance today I invited him to (practice) tom­morrow,'' Knight saia Tuesday night at a fundraising event for the Indiana University at Kokomo Library. 
"I would like to think, and I really hope more than at anytime I've been at Indiana, that Edwards winds up being the best example for kids that we've ever had," Knight told about 3,000 people at the 

T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS, WHo•s GOT THE T-SHIRTS? 
DENNYS, '\12 MILE NORTH OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. IS OFFERING A "I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS" 
T-SHIRT GIVE fl.WAY. 
FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO OENNYS WE ARE OPEN 24 HRS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
PlayFootball ForSomeoneWhoViewsWalkingAs ASpectatorSport. 
The USF&G Sugar Bowl Flag Football Drive To Cure Paralysis needs able-bcx.iied students to help raise money Every player gets a free shirt. And everyone on the team that raises the most money on campus wins a mini Tv. Plus, the top money-raising team nationally gets an all-expense~paid trip to New Orleans for the USF&G SugarBowlWeek. Soplease come out and play. And maybe one day your biggest fans will show their thanks with a standing ovation. 
USF&G SugarBowl Flag Football DriveTo CureParalysis. 
· . NOVEMBER 11, 12& 13 LOFTUSALL-SPORTSCENTER 
8if 

DEADLINE FOR TEAM ENTRIES-NOVEMBER 7 SPONSORED BY NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
Edwards practicing with IU 
Knight hopes guard can 'set a good example' with return 
Kokomo Memorial Gym. 
The 6-foot-4 Edwards, a former Indiana high school co­Mr. Basketball with Hoosier teammate Lyndon Jones, averaged 15.6 points and led In­diana in free throw percentage and in 3-point goals. 
"We've had some great kids who never caused an ounce of trouble to anybody. We'll never be able to say that about Ed­wards," Knight said. "Ed­wards has been a momunmen­tal pain ... for a variety of reasons, not all his fault. 
"What I would like to see with Edwards is that he comes from this point, where I've had to take his scholarship away and he has to pay his own way and is scrambling like a dog to do so, simply because he didn't do what he should academical­ly . 
"The other day I said to Ed­wards, 'You seem to be doing what you should be doing. It ap­pears that you're trying to do the right thing. Is it any harder or even as hard to do things the right way and to do things that are right, compared to doing the wrong things or doing things that are wrong?' 
"Edwards said, 'No, coach; in fact it is easier. I feel alot better when I try to do things the right way. In fact it makes me feel pretty good when I do the right thing.' 
"If Edwards can get himself straightened out, I think Ed­wards becomes the kind of ex­ample that you want and I want for kids. 
...

Soccer 
continued from page 16 
kick just outside the area, which Guignon converted off Morris' assist. 
"Their keeper had been step­ping over the line on his punts the entire game,'' said Irish co­ach Dennis Grace. "We asked the referees at the start of the second half to watch his foot. I never thought the call would come." 
The call obviously upset Sos­zynski and the rest of the team. 
"I was disappointed with the direct kick," said Green Bay coach Aslo Santaga. "It shouldn't have made a differ­ence in the game. Otherwise it was a good game." 
The result was good for Notre Dame, which faces Detroit Friday in the first round of the MCC Tournament. The Irish beat the Titans 3-1 in a close battle earlier this season, but Detroit will enter the match with a six-game win streak. 
The winner of Notre Dame­Detroit will face the winner of Loyola-Evansville Saturday. 
"We can't look past Detroit to Evansville," said Grace. "Hopefully this game will teach the players that lesson." 
SfEAKS 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

l I I I 
I I I I 
_j 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, November 3, 1988 

A's Weiss wins AL Rookie of the Year 

AP Photo 
didn't commit an error In 58 straight games during Oakland's drive down the stretch. A related story appears at right. 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK--Shortstop Walt Weiss was selected American League Rookie of the Year Wednesday by the Baseball Writers Association of America, the third straight season a member of the Oak­land Athletics has won the honor. 
Weiss received 103 points and 17 first-place votes from a panel of 28 writers, two from each AL city. 
Right-hander Bryan Harvey of the California Angeles was second with 49 points, one ahead of infielder Jody Reed of the Boston Red Sox. Reed, however had six first-place votes to three for Harvey. 
Right-hander Don August of Milwaukee was fourth with 22 points, followed by outfielder Dave Gallagher of Chicago with 18, right-hander Melido Perez of the White Sox with nine, right-hander Mike Schooler of Seattle with two and shortstop Cecil Espy of Texas with one. 
• 
Switch
Released players cashing 1n 
continued from page 16 It had been reported in Wed­
Long-term contracts pay huge sums to inactive players 
nesday's issue of The Chicago 
Associated Press 
PALM SPRINGS, Calif.-­Baseball teams paid $26 million to players who did not play last season, with Bill Caudill cos­ting Toronto $2 million and At­lanta spending the most for the least. 
The so-called termination pay includes money for players who were released before the season, cut during the year or bought out of their contracts. 
Caudill was the most expen­sive and he didn't throw one pitch. Cincinnati ate $1.35 mil­lion of Mario Soto's contract and Kansas City picked up $1.1 million to release Dan Quisen­berry, while San Diego's LaMarr Hoyt and Cleveland's Andre Thornton each did not play and were $1.1 million losses. 
The study, prepared by the club owners' Player Relations Committee, was delivered at the annual general managers' meeting. 
Barry Rona, head of the PRC, said the figures are "a graphic illustration of the dan­ger of long-term contracts." 
"We are not opposed to multi­year contracts, but they must be utilized carefully," he said. "Otherwise,. you're going to end up with big financial obligations to players who can't play." 
The $26,225,000 figure was an increase over 1987's amount of $20,783,902. In 1986, teams paid $23,536,412. 
The Atlanta Braves, who are making a move toward youth, paid the price for cutting vet­erans by spending $2.67 mil­lion. Len Barker cost the most at $940,000, with the other money going to Damaso Gar­cia, Ken Griffey and Gary Roenicke. 
• .... 
• i • HEY IRISH! i•i LET'S GO INSANE!! i
• 
• i SIGN UP FOR THE IRISH ! ! INSANITY CHEERING SECTION i i FOR THE NO HOCKEY AND ·! ! BASKETBALL. BE APART OF A i : TRUE IRISH SPIRIT ALL : i SEASON LONG!! !
• 
: SIGN UP LIST IN SUB OFFICE OR : : CALL 239-7757 BY FRIDAY! :
•
• 
i• GO IRISH! i• •
. ­
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••. •• 
Tribune that Ho was being The New York Mets did not 
benched for Saturday's game. have any termination pay for the second consecutive year. Boston and Oakland, also divi­
The offensive line received sion winners, did not spend any 
heavy criticism Holtz after and neither did Seattle, whose 
Notre Dame's lackluster per­$6.5 million payroll is the 
formance in a 22-7 win at Navy, but Holtz had high praise forlowest in the majors. 
his linemen after Wednesday's The World Series champion 
practice. Los Angeles Dodgers paid 
"Our offensive line's had a $950,000, about the average for 
great week," said Holtz. clubs. 
"The 've racticed reall 
"oakland's Jose Canseco was Rookie of the Year in 1986 and first baseman Mark McGwire won the award last year. While Canseco and McGwire brought the A's power, Weiss' slick fielding helped Oakland win the AL pennant. 
Since the inception of the award in 1949, no other AL club has ever had three consecutive winners. From 1979-1982, Rick Sutcliffe, Steve Howe, Fer­nando Valenzuela. and Steve Sax won as Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League. 
In 1987, Oakland was 11th in the AL in fielding with 142 er­rors. This year, the A's finished third with only 105. The only two teams ahead of the Ath­letics, Minnesota with 84 errors and Boston with 93, had fewer than the previous major-league low. 
Only one of Weiss' 15 errors came after July 8, and he han­dled 261 straight chances over 58 consecutive games without an error down the stretch. 

The offensive line's performed exceptionally well this year considering the injuries we've had." 
Holtz added that the line is starting to get healthier, with junior guard Tim Grunhard ex­pected to return to action this weekend. 
"We're better than we've ever been, this is the healthiest we've been," said Holtz. 
Expected to start on the line this Saturday are sophomore Mike Heldt at center, senior Andy Heck and Dean Brown at tackle and Grunhard and Tim Ryan at guard. Senior Mike Brennan also might get a start­
osition on the line. 

ro---­
Thursday, November 3, 1988 The Observer page ~3 
JULIE 
NOV 3, 1988 
Love-Dad. Mom. and Karin 
.L 
lr-1
_-­
. ' 
!'Jijr
..,, 
1 
Rice Tennis Classic next for Irish women 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team resumes action this weekend at the Rice Tennis Classic in Houston, Texas, where they will be challenged by a high caliber of competi­tion. 
The Irish will face Rice, Houston, Texas, Texas A&M, SMU, and LSU. Of these teams, SMU, Texas and Texas A&M were ranked in the top 25 na­tionally in the preseason polls. 
Coach Michele Gelfman feels the team members will have to play "above their personal po­tential" for them to do well. 
"We've never played any of these teams before," Gelfman said. "We know we will have to play up to these people and better in order to win the matches." 
Swimming 
continued from page 16 
and a new scoring system that gives two more points to the first-place winner could hurt 
Notre Dame. ~ The Irish women are coming off a 9-7 season. The women had more key losses than the men, but boast a strong recruit­ing class and some talented returnees. 
"This is a faster and stronger team than we had a year ago," Welsh said. 
The Irish could be hard­pressed to replace diving sen­sation Andrea Bonny and swimmers Amy Darlington and Barbara Byrne. _ . 
Versatile sophomore and last year's high-point scorer Christie Moston returns for the Irish, as do senior co-~tain 
Your Family, Mom & Dad 
Jen, Jut,  Bee  
Vic  Val  
Lou  Andy  
Joey  James  


Ce Ce Cahill will again lead the Irish in the top singles po­sition. She will be followed by Katie Clark, Tracy Barton, Kristy Doran, Kim Pacella, and Ann Bradshaw. The com­binations of Cahill-Clark, Barton-Doran, and Pacella­Bradshaw will compete in the doubles events. 
"We do have people who I think can go head to head with some of the people of the other teams," Gelfman remarked. "It will help us that the tourn­ament-is flighted." 
But the overall youth of the squad contributes to the unpre­dictability of the outcome. 
"This tournament, our first this year out of the region, will be a good test for all our young players," Gelfman said. 
Clark, Barton, Doran, and BradSQ!lF a.re all freshmen. 
and freestylist Tracy Johnson and junior freestylist Kathy Quirk. Sophomore transfer Amy Tri and senior co-captain Kelly Quinn will also have an impact. 
Some of the freshmen ex­pected to make a splash include Heather Winiecki and Betsy Knaus in the distance events, Katie Pamenter, Jackie Jones, Debbie Brady and Cyndie Saf­ford in the freestyle events. 
"We think it's an exceptional freshman class," Welsh said. "The thing that has happened is that they have closed the spread between the fastest and slowest swimmer. With that, we can swim at a faster pace." 
The Irish and the Horned Frogs will meet again Friday at 4 p.m. in the Notre Dame Relays. Other teams par­ticipating include Xavier and Illinois-Chicago. 
Class 
continued from page ~ 0 
Hitter Healey, Rowers are supposed to die, but fish? 
George better be living when you read this or you are a b&d p4n00. 
Zeto eays, 'Bring your beet gall!" ZETO AND THE HEAT -ONS "AIIIIbelance-no atyte.and one moot reason tor your mom to hate rock and ron1r Friday night at THEODORE'S BEGINNING AT 10:00P.M. 
THEODORE'S presents: PIERCE PET­TIS Nationally acclaimed recording artist· playa guitar, hermonica, IW1d ling81 Don1 miss himlll Sunday, Nowmber 8 al 1:30l".M. 
LINTA AND KATE, 8()1( THEY"RE GREAT MY LOVE FOR THEM IS IN A HUGE PILE CAUSE THEY SENT ME A REPTILE XXX 000 LIZARD LIPS 
Michigan State Invitational. Steve Megargee on the back page. 
.ng weight classes, which have 
been Notre Dame's weakness
Wrestll 
continued from page 16 in recent years.
"Salvino is just a horse," He recorded an 85-6 record at said McCann. "He benches 400 Marist High School, last year's pounds, and is one of the Illinois state championship strongest freshmen you'll find team. for a l!J<)-pounder. Legitimate 
Chuck Weaver of Midwest 190-pounders are hard to come City, Okla., won the state by. Weaver's the number-one heavyweight championship heavyweight coming out of twice in high school and enters high school, so on paper we got that position at Notre Dame. the best freshman McCann is look~ng for Weaver, heavyweight. who won his last 78 matches in "They're a little timid, which high school, and Salvino to pro-is typical of some big kids," vide strength in the heavier McCann continued. "They 
The Saint Ed-ward's Hail Players 
will be holding auditions for  
Agatha Chnstie's  
~~Ten  little llndian§~~  
Auditions Will be held on Wed. at 4:00 and Thurs. at 7:00 in the Saint Ed-ward's  ~ ; ~  
Hall Party Room. All are welcome and  ,;  
~·  1you only have to come to one of the two  
sessions. For more information call  
Duane at •t661 or Lowell at •1699  

,................................................ 
: SOPHOMOREs-. tnterested : ! in the position of Sophomore · :-­!• Committee chairperson for Junior !•: Parent's Weekend? : 
: Applications available in the : : Office of Student Activities, 3rd !
•: Floor LaFortune. :
•

: Due November 7th, 1988 by 5pm : 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• I 

HAPPY 218T BIQTHDAY 

Chris Geneser and the Notre Dame wrestling previews the squad, which looks to Improve as team kick off their season Sunday at the a result of an excellent recruiting year, starting 
have to get their feet wet and toughen up mentally. That comes with experience, we're not worried about that. 
Notre Dame's other fresh­man wrestlers are 118-pound Mike Sheehy, 134-pound Tim Anderson and Curt Engler, who will compete at either 177 or 190 pounds. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
The words we liw I::J• 
\l ~· .· .,.:k: ..:·:..:~ \.-·.·:::·i;...--:.~~-.: ~~::~l··:~''.::·;;~·-~ 

....-----------~----~------------------~ -­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 3, 1988 
Brennan's rise to the topstarted at the basement 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 

If a depth chart is like a lad­der, and if football teams are like buildings ... 
Then Notre Dame tackle Mike Brennan may have climbed to the top of the Em­pire State Building. 
And no doubt about it, he started on the ground floor. 
The senior, one-time walk-on began his Notre Dame career as a lacrosse recruit. An All­American at his high school in Severna Park, Maryland, Brennan came to Notre Dame­-but played spring football in­stead of lacrosse. 
From that beginning (Brennan weighed 180 pounds as a high school senior), Bren­nan has climbed ... and eaten ... and now is a starting offensive tackle on the number one ranked team in the nation. 
"It's sort of a dream come true," said Brennan. "It took a helluva lot of work, but it all fell into place." 
As Brennan has climbed so too have his goals. The small freshman has evolved into the big (real big, 6-5, 260 pounds) senior, and for him starting is a reward for his hard work. 
"I always envisioned contri­buting," said Brennan, "but never imagined starting. As the years went on though, I knew I could." 
His mentor, offensive line co­ach Tony Yelovich, sees Bren­nan's move in a similar light. 
"He knew he could contrib­
e 
~.;...,~.---.. 
APPholo 
Mike Dltka, head coach of the Chicago Bears, suffered a mild heart attack yesterday after completing his morning workout. He remains In serious condition for the time being, but Is expected to recover fully. A related story appears at right. 

Ditka suffers heart attack 
Bears' head coach hospitalized, in serious condition 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, IlL-­
Chicago Bears coach Mike 
Ditka suffered a mild heart at­
tack Wednesday after his daily 
workout at the team's training 
camp and was hospitalized in .serious condition. 
The 49-year-old Ditka was alert and conscious and being treated at the intensive care unit of Lake Forest Hospital, said Dr. Jay Alexander a staff cardiologist. Ditka's wife, Diana, was at the hospital with him. 
Alexander said he expected Ditka would recover complete­ly, "barring anything unfor­seen." 
Students ofall majors are invited to attend a presentation on 
Opportunities in Investment Banking MORGAN STANLEY Public Finance 
Thursday, November 3, 1988 LaFortune Student Center Foster Room 5:00 to 7:00p.m. 
Morgan Stanley representaJives will be present to discuss the Financial Analyst Program in Public Finance and the Investment Banking Industry. For further information, contact Career and Placement Services. 
Ditka was given medicine for a blocked artery and Alexan­der said the coach would re­quire hospitalization for at least a week while doctors de­termined the extent of the blockage. 
"It's too soon to say when he will be back and resuming his duties," Alexander said. 
Bears president Mike McCaskey, who visited Ditka at the hospital, described the coach as being in good spirits and even joking that he had planned to visit a friend Wed­nesday at the same hospital anyway. 
McCaskey said he would name an assistant coach later 0." 
Entering the season, the Irish offensive line was billed as a weakness on the team, yet they've pulled together, thanks in part to unexpected contribu­tions of players like Brennan. 
"Everybody believes," said Brennan, "from one end of the line to the other. We have one big heart." 
And while this year's line was called "too young" and "inex­perienced", next year's should return four of five starters-­including Brennan. 
"I'll be back," said Rrennan. "and I'll start. I just want to help." 
Brennan's climbed a long way so far, and with another year to play, there's no telling how high he could go. 
this week to direct Sunday's game against Tampa Bay in Ditka's absence. 
Both the players and McCas­key agreed the disruption would be minimal because a game plan was nearly com­pleted and Ditka increasingly has turned over play-calling re­sponsibilities to offensive co­ordinator Ed Hughes and his defensive counterpart, Vince Tobin. 
"We're left in very capable hands," said safety Dave Duer­son. "We're a bunch of profes­sionals and we know what our jobs are.... Certainly, though, Mike's going to be in the back of our minds, and Sunday will be for him." 
ute and help us win," said Yelovich, "and he just dedi­cated himseH to doing so." 

the season. But InJUries (especially to starting guard Tim Grunhard) sent Brennan to guard and his first start against Miami. 
Brennan started at guard in that game and against Navy, and now, with Grunhard re­turning, Brennan will retain his starting spot, but back at the quick-tackle position. 
If Brennan's move up the depth chart has been unpredic­table, it's been no more so than Notre Dame's climb to the top of the polls. Brennan ap­proaches the success in typi­cally matter-of-fact fashion. 
"We never look ahead and we never look back," said Bren­nan. "You don't even think about it, and all of a sudden, you turn around and you're 8­
Thursday, November 3, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
Noon Peace Institute Brown Bag Seminar "New Thinking in 
ACROSS 34 Fort Worth inst. 58 Las Vegas 
Soviet Foreign Policy" by Prof. Robert C. Johansen, Room 
36 Plumber? features
1 Prefix with john 
112 Law School. 
38 Some are 62 Soc.-page
or god 

palookas denizen
5 Magna-­
39 Skater Heiden 64 TV's "L. --" 
3:00 p.m. Radiation Lab Seminar "Sites of Electron Attach­
10 Norwegian king 
41 Figure of 65 Large area
ment in DNA Exposed to Ionizing Radiation Below 77K," by 
14 Ardor 

authority 67 Abundant
Dr. William Bernhard, University of Rochester, Conference 
15 "On life's vast 
43 Dissolve 68 "Charley's --"
Theatre, Radiation Lab. 
. . "·Pope 
44 "Divorce 69 Tips
16 Venetian 
capital," once 
70 Wickedness
magistrate 
45 Pyromaniac's
4:15p.m. Friends of the Snite and the Tully Endowment Lec­
17 Storage places 71 Don Giovanni, 
crime
ture "On Discovering an Andrea del Sarto," by Dr. James 
e.g.
18 Talkative
A. Welu, Worchester Museum of Art, Annenberg Auditorium. 
47 Peer at 
72 Robes
20 Singer Tennille 
48 Southwestern 
73 Something to
21 Actress Joanne 
shrub 
make
22 Court schedule 
4:15p.m. American Catholic Studies Seminar "Catholicism 
51 Warrant off. 
and the Control of Culture in Boston 1900-1920," by Prof. · 23 Lets stand 

Paula Kane, Texas A&M University, Library Lounge. 
5:00p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for students interested in careers with Morgan Stanley (Tax Exempt Division), Foster Room, LaFortune. 
6:30 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "How to Conduct an Effective Mail Campaign," by Paul J. Reynolds, Room 124 Hayes-Healy. 
7:00 & 9:15p.m. Graduate Student Union Film, "Roots," Li­brary Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
Sloppy Joes Pork Cutlet Beef Stir Fry Beef Pot Pie Fried Chicken Cheese Blintzes Vegetable Marinara Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
~·s fJitJ6KIIfHY PR!NTEI? II 5HOCKfN& NeVI f!CTf/~ CF 
CIIN/71/JI/Te 8/U. ... 

Buzz McFiattop 
53 Three-time 25 More agreeable Masters DOWN 
21 Sally champion 1 Liabilities 
29 "... Western 55 Fabled guardian Front" novelist of mines 
2 Prufrock's creator 3 Models 4 Locale phrase: 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
TASKIEPOS DAWNS ELOI TRAP OCEAN 
NORTHC.~~~
S E T T E E H A D I T 0 P 
ENTO RENErw. mother language general 
S P EIN C E R S M 0 R ASS C H A. E R I C H S T R A P
ROS.T EDGE
U N T I E I R G U N .H A W BEETLE NONAGONS 
~EACH SGTS 
rsro U T H A S I  A  
VOGIUIE  ERLEIRANT  
A P S I  S  A D E N  P U N S  

ALE "PooL SCHEME
LOIG~S 
Lat. 5 Something too 
common 6 Type of squash 7 Syllabus 26 Proserpina's 35 Algonquian 57 Confederatematerial 
8Aia--, 
28 Jay's cousin 37 Pentagonal 58 Winter Palace U.S.S.R. range 30 Indy driver's base resident9 Garland 
concern 40 "Le --d'Or" 
59--vitae

1 o Of a Pindaric 31 Export from 42 Plunder (alcohol)11 Defunct 
Seville 46 Nailing block 
magazine so Rot!
32 "The-­49 Utilities 
12 Malarial fever 61 Overdue
Duckling" customer 13 Weskit 
33 Punta del --, 50 Thrips, e.g. 63 Mamie's 
19 Comedienne Uruguay 52 Caught predecessor Witherspoon 
34 Part of a school 54 Alluvial plain 66 Out-of-style24 Taste year 56 Puzo subject jacket 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Michael F. Muldoon 



~~-----------------------------------------------------------·---------------------------------·-------­
Sports 
Thursday, November 3, 1988 
page 16 
ND men's soccer edges Green Bay 
By PETE GEGEN one bad game is out of our sys­Sports Writer 
tem," said Irish coach Dennis 
Grace. "They've got St. Louis 
John Guignon scored off a (the sight of the MCC Tourna­direct kick with less than five ment) on their brains. I minutes to play, giving Notre suspected it, and I talked to the Dame a 2-1 win over Wisconsin­seniors and the captains about Green Bay Wednesday after­it, but they just weren't ready noon at Krause Stadium, set­for today's game." ting the stage for this Randy Morris gave the Irish weekend's Midwestern Col­a 1-0 lead just before halftime legiate Conference Tourna­when he took a perfect lead ment. header from Joe Sternberg and 
"I wanted to take it," said beat Phoenix keeper Dan Sos­Guignon, who was playing with zynski low and to the right. an injured right foot. "I wanted The momentum did not carry the ball pushed to get more of over into the second half, as the an angle on the goal. Randy Irish came out flat and Green (Morris) did that, and I hit it Bay exploited Notre Dame's with my left foot." man-to-man defense to tie the 
That goal saved a team per­game. Joe Mueller dribbled in formance that could have all alone and lofted a shot over destroyed the team's NCAA Irish keeper Danny Lyons for Tournament bid hopes. Though the goal. the Irish kept heavy offensive Notre Dame then needed a pressure on the Phoenix, ear­disputed hand ball call by the ning a 17-7 edge in shots on linesman to set up the deciding 

goal, they also played ragged  goal.  
soccer  at  times, resulting in  Soszynski  was  whistled for  
Green Bay's only goal at 54:01  stepping  outside  the  penalty  
and  some  excellent  Phoenix  area before releasing the ball,  The Observer I Suzanne Poch  
scoring chances in the final two  giving  Notre  Dame  a  direct  Joe Sternberg the Notre Dame soccer team  Guignon scored with just over four minutes left  
minutes. "All I can hope for is that the  see SOCCER, page 11  (light shirt) defends against a member of the Wisconsin-Green Bay Phoenix yesterday. John  to give the Irish a 2-1 win. Pete Gegen has the details at left.  

Winter sports get into gear 
Swim teams open seasons tonight vs. Texas Christian 
By GREG GUFFEY Texas Christian's men's Welsh recruited a talented 
Sports Writer squad placed fifth in the South­and large freshman class. With 
west Conference last year and over one third of the tealJl 
Coming off a 13-3 ledger last narrowly lost a seven-point freshmen, Welsh will test their 
year, the Irish men's swim­decision to eventual NCAA ability early in the season. Top 
ming team has a solid list of champ Texas. Senior frees­recruits include Jim Birming­
returnees and a strong class of tyler Doug Ellis, a participant ham and Charles Smith in the 
freshmen talent. in the Olympic Trials, paces freestyle and Jay Nash and 
When added together, those the Horned Frogs. Roger Rand in the 
factors could spell success for "They'll be g9od," Welsh breaststroke. 
a Notre Dame squad trying to said of the Horned Frogs. "In the first place, the fresh­
make a name for itself on a na­"They will be very strong at men are high spirited, exciting 
tional level. least with the lead swimmer. and energetic," Welsh said. 
"We're anxious to find out When they don't have a super­"In the second place, they are where we are and what needs star in the lead, they'll have a working hard. They're filling in to be done," Irish coach Tim lot of depth." spaces very well." Welsh said. Key returnees for the Irish A couple of factors will make 
Notre Dame will get that include sophomore school it difficult to compare this chance tonight at Rolfs Aquatic record-holders Paul Godfrey year's squad with last year's Center when both the men's and Brian Rini in distance version of the Irish. The and women's teams host Texas freestyle and Jim Bryne in the schedule will be considerably Christian at 6 p.m. It will be individual medley. Co-captains difficult with fewer dual meets the first meeting ever between are seniors John Froman and 
see SWIMMING, page 13
the two schools in the pool. Brian Vogel. 
Irish wrestling, under McCann, shoots for the top 1 0 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Americans back, and that will shoulder injury that kept him Assistant Sports Editor be a real test for us," said out for almost all of last season. McCann. "The top three teams "I'm extremely pleased with The Notre Dame wrestling in the tournament have im­our returnees," said McCann. program took a giant step for­proved, and that's us, Edinboro "Pat Boyd is just looking dom­ward by qualifying six and Michigan State." inant. He hasn't lost a beat, in wrestlers for the NCAA tourn­Other high points on the fact he's gotten better. Jerry's ament. schedule include the Las Vegas the best he's looked since he's 
Now the Irish are hoping to Invitational, a tournament that been here and Chris is the same make tracks on the top teams includes virtually all the top way." in the nation. names in collegiate wrestling, An improvement of quality in 
"We truly believe we're a top and a dual meet at Oklahoma. the practice room is the result 10 team," said Irish coach Fran Next year, the Irish will be of a tremendous freshman McCann. "I just feel that. Ifour heading to Iowa. class of wrestlers. McCann fig­kids have the confidence, we But McCann still has reason ures to have three freshmen in can push into the top five." to be confident. He returns five the lineup at Michigan State. 
The Irish certainly will get of last year's six NCAA Marcus Gowens probably plenty of chances to prove they qualifiers in 118-pound junior will get the call at the 126-pound can compete with the top Andy Radenbaugh, 134-pound category. Gowens placed schools. Notre Dame opens the senior Jerry Durso, 158-pound second in the 123-pound section season Sunday by trying to win sophomore Mark Gerardi, 167-of last year's Junior Olympics its second consecutive Mic­pound sophomore Todd and recorded a 95-12 high higan State Invitational, but Tomazic and 177-pound senior school record at Oklahoma. the tournament now includes Chris Geneser. Tom Salvino of Chicago will Edinboro, which placed In addition, Pat Boyd, a 142-start at the 190-oound division. seventh in the nation last year. pound senior from Cleveland, 
see WRESTLING, page 13
"They have three All-has fully recovered from a 
~--------------~----------------------------, 
Watters switches ~back to tailback 
Sophomore Ricky Watters, a former tailback who switched to flanker before this season, is back at his original position. 
Watters, who led the Irish with 11 receptions for 215 yards, was moved to the backfield at the beginning of this week's practices. 
"I think it's my natural position," said the resident of Harrisburg, Penn. "It was Coach Holtz's decision. It wasn't like anyone was doing anything wrong. I didn't feel comfortable there (at flanker). Even though I was playing the position and doing a good job, you could tell my heart wasn't in it. I guess coaches kind of know those things." 
Steve Megargee 
Football Notebook 


While playing behind Mark Green at tailback last season, Watters gained 373 yards on 69 carries. The fresh­man was part of a "Pony Express" backfield that included Green, Tony Brooks and himself at tailback and Pernell Taylor, Braxston Banks and Anthony Johnson at fullback. 
A running back in high school, Watters was moved to flanker at the end of spring practices. During the season, Watters has scored two touchdowns as a flanker and two touchdowns on punt returns. 
His only ballcarrying action this season came when the Irish would run reverses or when he would line up in the backfield during a wishbone formation. In that role, Wat­ters has gained 45 yards on 23 carries this season. 
Watters currently is listed as the third-team tailback behind Green and Brooks. 
One decision Holtz has yet to make is choosing who will be kicking field goals and extra points against Rice this Saturday. 
As usual, sophomore Billy Hackett will do the kickoffs and senior Jim Sexton will handle the punting chores. It will be decided today who is doing the placekicking on Saturday. 
"It will be Hackett or Reggie (Ho)," said Holtz. 
Ho has kicked extra points and short field goals for the first eight games of the season. He connected on his first six field goal attempts and is 9-of-11 for the season. But the junior from Kaneohe, Hawaii, has missed extra points in the last two games. 
Hackett, ~ sophomore from Sarasota, Fla., has at­tempted the long field goals. He made a 44-yarder against Purdue and had a 43-yard attempt blocked against Miami. 
see SWITCH, page 12 





