
P.E ! .. -. 
Please, snow more
IACCENT: Dismas residents grow together 
Cloudy Wednesday with a 40 percent chance of afternoon snow. High around 20. A 60 percent chance of snow Wed­
IVIEWPOINT: ND and the world 
nesday night. 

A, r;:,'~.~.6 ._, 
·~ 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

NICHUS t L& 
,. 
•. 
• 
The Observer I Rob Regovich
So many choices! 
Junior Mike Collins gazes in wonderment at the mul­paign posters plastered over the walls in the halls of titude of student body president-Vice president cam-Flanner Tower. 



SMC seniors combat pressure as comprehensive deadline nears 


By KIMBERLY TRENNER Senior Staff Reporter 
Many Saint Mary's seniors feel pressure as the deadlines to complete their comprehen­sive exams draw closer. 
"They (the exams) demon­strate overall competency in a field as opposed to mastery of various pieces of that field,"said Teresa Marcy, as­sistant to the vice president. Students must satisfy a com­prehensive requirement in 

Dole, Gephardt hope for victory 
Bush's swift political demise,Associated Press despite the vice president's 
Republican Sen. Bob Dole lead in New Hampshire polls. and Democratic Rep. Richard Unlike Dole, Gephardt Gephardt blew into New notched only a n~rrow ~in in Hampshire on Tuesday, two Iowa. He Immediately Midwesterners angling to turn declared himself the "clear un­
their first-place Iowa caucus ~--_-_._,·'::_'·_---::-_._-:ii!'i£§'


_· ._.-_-. 

finishes to advantage .in n~xt _._._ ·:--. ~:':~ _· ___ _ week's lead-off presidential · -•-. _ _.. ·-······-·-· ·· . primary elections. · 
Vice President George Bush, derdog" in New Hampshire the national front-runner and pronounced Massachusetts humbled by a third-place Gov. Michael Dukakis the finish, redoubled his campaign Democrat to beat. 
efforts and requisitioned one of Dole's campaign themes. "I'm Even so, he said, "I'm gonna one of you," he told New do fine." Hampshire voters. Sen. Paul Simon, runner-up 
But Pat Robertson, Iowa's among the Democrats in Iowa, surprise Republican runner­also pegged Dukakis the man up, said the vice president's to beat, and said, "The impor­"myth of invincibility" was gone. Another rival forecast see PRIMARY, page 3 
Professor comments on Contra aid deal 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO are going to see all sorts of new Senior Staff Reporter aid pacakges put up (by Congress)," Francis noted. 
Last week's Congressional The Democrats in Congress rejection of a $36.2 million aid have already offered another package for Contra forces plan that is solely fighting the Nicaraguan gov­humanitarian aid, he added. ernment was a "very partisan The Contras will have "a and very political" decision, hard time" receiving military according to Michael Francis, aid unless Nicaraguan Presi­professor of government. dent Daniel Ortega "does 
The House of Representa­something, that, as he has done tives voted down President in the past several times, up­Ronald Reagan's aid request sets the Congress," Francis 219-211, with only 12 said. Republicans voting to reject Francis was unsure of how the package. Part of the pack­Reagan would react to Con­age was $3.6 million ear­gressional rejection of his re­marked for weapons and am­quest. munition; the rest was Reagan will probably wait to designated for humanitarian see what the Democrats' pack­aid. age entails and monitor 
Francis said he agreed with developments in Central Congress' decision, though the America before taking action, rejection does not mean the he said. Contras are finished as a fight­"If Ortega does something ing force. that looks like it's going to in­
"They can survive without fluence even 10 Congressmen any help from Congress for 
done," said Marcy. "Usually see TESTS, page 5 several months and I think you see CONTRA, page 6 

Proposed grading system could be a big plus 
their major in order to graduate, said Marcy. This re­quirement varies in each de­partment, she said. 
"If a student fails her com­prehensive she can retake it un­til she passes, but it sometimes means delaying graduation," Marcy said. "There is one per­son I know of out there who hasn't yet passed, but she hasn't arranged to retake it," she said. 
"There are always people who have trouble getting them the people who don't get them done are the chronic procras­tinators -those who get incom­pletes," she added. 
"The first time it was men­tioned that comprehensive ex­ams were required was in a 1935-36 college catalogue," said Sr. M. Rosaleen Dunleavy, of the Saint Mary's archives. 
Since that time the exams have changed. "In the 1960's 
By MATT GALLAGHER Staff Reporter 
Plus grades may soon be added to Notre Dame's grading system as the pro­posal gains support among professors who desire greater flexibility and stu­dents who want a fairer grading system. 
The University's Aca­demic Council, which is composed of administra­tors, faculty members and students from each college, will consider the addition of plus grades at its Feb. 16 meeting. The council makes all major decisions regard­ing academic policy at Notre Dame. 
The proposal will add grades of B +and C +to the current grading system. 
Students from all the col­leges and faculty alike have expressed approval of the proposal, which has been resubmitted to the Aca­demic Council in response to the results of.last semester's rent system you can get trapped between grades," said Moszczenski. "With an 88 percent, you get a B, even though you're closer to an A-. Plus, you get a chance to get a higher GPA. Our GPA's are not comparable to other schools," he said. 


Moszczenski also pointed out that prospective employers might not realize that the current Notre Dame system does not include plus grades as do other schools' s stems. 
However, Kitty Arnold, director of Career Place­ment Services, said most prospective employers do not make that fine a distinc­tion between GPAs. "We supply information on the grades given by the various colleges to employers. They then use it as a ranking sys­tem for comparing stu­dents," said Arnold. "They don't take the GPA entirely out of context." 
see GRADES, pa e 4 


-~~~----~-----------­
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, February 10, 1988 


·1n Brief 
Student senate candidate Sean Hoffman withdrew from the District 1 race Tuesday, said Ombudsman elec­tion official John Wilson. Hoffman "withdrew for his own reasons. We didn't kick him out," Wilson said. Hoffman could not be reached for comment. Pat Kiernan and Billy Joel are now left to contest the seat. -The Observer 
Kermit the Frog hopped up Capitol Hill on Tuesday to join a group of lawmakers and safety advocates in inaugurating National Child Passenger Safety Awareness Week. The week, proclaimed by Congress last week and ·continuing through Saturday, is designed to call attention to the need for adults to properly buckle children into safety seats when driving. Among those attending the news conference were Transportation Secretary Jim Burnley, five members of Congress and television and film person­ality Jim Henson and his puppet, Kermit the Frog. ­
Associated Press 


Of Interest 
The. annu.al can.didate debate for Student Body Pre~Ide~t will be this Sunday in the Hesburgh Library Auditonum at 7:30 p.m. -The Observer 

A Career in Law is the scheduled topic for tonight's Circle K meeting at 6:15 in the Center for Social Concerns. 
-The Observer 
A logo contest is being held for the Collegiate Jazz F~sti_val's 30th anniversary, to be held April 8 and 9. The wm~mg designer will receive $100 and old designs are available for reference. Entries are due Feb. 29 in the Student Union Board office. For more information, contact Dave Thornton at 287-6575 or Kevin Mundy at 283-3797. 
-The Observer 
Dis~as House, a residential community for ex-pnsoners and students, is seeking student residents for the 1988-89 school year. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. Application deadline is Feb. 
29. -The Observer 

The Wo.men's Caucus of NDSMC will meet today at 7 p.m. m. the fac~lty lounge of the Hesburgh Library. For further Information, please contact Catherine Francis at 233-7295. -The Observer 
United ~tates Transportation Command will be the topic ?f a lecture by Major Peter Geurtz visiting from Scott Arr ~orce Base in Illinois. The Air For~e ROTC Detachment Will be presenting this lecture today from 
4:30 to 5:20p.m. in the Library Auditorium.-The Observer 
Career ~ec~sion-making workshops will be held at the Umversity Counseling Center for sophomores who have not selected a major. Workshops will be held Feb 15-18 an~ Feb. 22-25 from 6:30 to 8 p.m. Call the University C?unsehng Center at 239-7336 and ask for Bart Julie or Rita for more information. -The Observer ' 
Notre Dame Bridge Club meets again in the basement of Alumni Hall tonight from 11 p.m. to midnight. -The Observer ~ 


Design Editor ........ Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... John Blasi Design Assi•tant .. .. .. .. Annette Rowland Viewpoint Layout .............. Laura Manzi Layout Staff. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Kathy Gliwa Accent Copy Editor ........ Susan Buckley ..................... .. ..... Kim Nugent Accent Layout ................ Heather Hypes Typesetters .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. Smedley Laboe Typist .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. Will Zamer ... .. ........... Becky Gunderman ND Day Editors ........ ...... Carrie McCall News Editor. ........... Ann Marie Durning Photographer ................... Rob Regovich Copy Editor ............ Kendra Lee Morrill Sports Wednesday Editor .. Brian O'Gara Sports Copy Editor . ............. Pete Gegen Sports Wednesday Layout .. Joe Zadrozny 
Tilt Olllener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tilt O.,_,.er is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $-40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tilt Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tilt Ollllnu is a member of Tilt Aaodllted Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Crazy cat candidacy had humor, creativity 
Yes, it's that time of year again. It's time for Mark us to be inundated by meaningless posters and smiling photos staring at us in bathroom stalls. Me LaughlinThey all seem to say the same thing. 


Not so in 1972. Oh, sure, there were the same Projects Manager old speeches about how "the situation demands changes and leadership. Where are they?" and campaign planks like "Creation of a Total En­vironment." But 1972 was the year of the cat. 
Uncandidate the Cat was his name. Student Body Vi~e President was his game. Running along with Bob Kersten, a.k.a. The Prime Mover, the Cat actually won, despite being declared ineligible after his claim to be a Notre Dame student was thrown out by the Student Senate.. The vote on the Cat's candidacy was 4-2, which tells you how apathetic the Student Senate was. 
Kersten and Uncandidate declared their can­didacy from the "second commode of the Walsh fourth floor lavatory'' by announcing his plans for a "hard-hitting campaign in which I plan to come out unequivocally and indefinitely on every major issue." 
Sounds like a lot of campaigns I've been reading about on our walls. 
The Prime Mover certainly was up front about his candidacy. He proposed the abolition of all student government, to be replaced by an runners-up threw their support behind oligarchy consisting of -you guessed it -Kersten Kersten's opponent, a well-meaning former and Uncandidate. Among other things, he pro­Ombudsman fighting a lost battle. posed t? distribute scholarships by lottery, an AlB option to replace the current pass1ail sys­Kersten withdrew from the race at that point, tem, and repeal of all parietals. citing a vision of God telling him to "get your­

After staging a kidnapping at a Keenan Hall self the hell out." He won anyway in a veritable rally, Kersten raised his 27 cent ransom at a landslide, scoring a victory against student gov­fundraising dinner at Saint Mary's. He spoke ernments everywhere. from a burning bush (actually a burning trash basket) on the roof of Walsh Hall, where two Lest you get the wrong impression, Kersten lepers were reputedly cured by Uncandidate. an~ Uncan?idate actually did some good after 
Kersten proposed that Security be replaced their election. Kersten still pulled the same by the Brain Police and a committee be estab­stunts: walking on water, staging a coronation lished to ensure the consistency and quality of instituting the "King for a Day" contest and drugs sold on campus. He called for a takeover leaving student government to Uncandidate of The Observer, citing its "total news black­while he ruled for three months in absentia. out" and its editorial urging students not to put But he and Uncandidate also swept most of the the student body in a position it might regret. deadwood out of student government before 
And to bring women to the Notre Dame they set up one central student governing body campus, Kersten suggested sending out merger and retired to a life of pranks. "feelers" to Saint Mary's of the Field in 
Perhaps it is indicative of the wisdom ofWinona, Minnesota, since the more familiar Kersten's approach that the Board of TrusteesSaint Mary's was balking at a merger. 
asked him to remain as Student Body President, 
The big day arrived, and Kersten won the and that the student budget increased almost election handily. But wait! Runoff election! The 50 percent during his tenure. Observer once again slammed Kersten. Six Perhaps we need more cats in our election. 
people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad· space. Call 239-6900. 
$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial benefits \\'Orth as much as~ '5,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
All these benet. s are prm·ided for one purpose: to educate and tnlin qualified young men, nd women to serve as commissioned officers in the Navy. 
'lbe Na,·y pays for tuition. textbooks, instructional fet..-s, and gives you an allowance ofSIOO a month for up to 20 months during your last two years ofcollege. l~pon graduation and completion of requirements, you'll become an important part of the Na\'y ad,·cmure as aNa,~· ofiiccr. 
Call your Na\'y representati,·c for more information on this challenging and rewardin_g_program. 
For more information call Lieutenant Commander Tfm Wieand at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 
NAVY~OFFICER. 

LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 


Wednesday, February 10, 1988 
Salaries, needs cause N D tuition increases 
By ROBYN SIMMONS ships is currently a major com­News Staff ponent of the University's 'Strategic Moment Campaign' 
Recent increases in under-with a goal of a $60 million in­graduate tuition at Notre Dame crease by 1990." are attributed mainly to fac-An alternative financing ulty salaries and operational package, which would allow requirements, according to a certain families to borrow up 1988 Tuition Review and letter to $15,000 per year with a sent to parents from University cumulative maximum of president Father Edward Mal-$60,000, was also discussed in loy last week. the brochure. 
The letter and brochure are "When the inforrnation was a follow-up to a letter that was sent to the parents sent to parents in June an-(concerning) thetuitionforthis nouncing a tuition increase of year, Father Malloy indicated 
9.9 percent, placing undergrad-he would send a letter explain­uate tuition for the 1987-88 aca-ing it," said Eexecutive Vice demic year at $9,480. President Father William 
The 1988 Tuition Review pro-Beauchamp. vides information concerning The information sent to par­the University's budget -ents does not include an an­approximately 46 percent of nouncement of next year's tui­which is provided by tuition --tion. "All that it's explaining is and the forces driving tuition what the tuition increases have upward. been in the past," said Beau-
These forces include faculty champ. "We don't know what salaries, which account for 40 the tuition would be next year." percent of the tuition increase; According to Beauchamp, educational materials and the most recent trend in the facilities for student life, ac-cost of tuition has been a 10 per­counting for 10 percent each; cent increase, on the average. and operational requirements "I don't see anything drasti­for the University, adding an-cally changing that," he said. other 40 percent. Notre Dame currently ranks 
The brochure also includes 32nd among 35 peer institutions several courses of action which in tuition, room and board fees. the University is considering in order to ease the burden of in­According to the Tuition creasing tuition, especially in Review, "The rate of increase the area of student aid. in combined tuition, room and 
According to the 1988 Tuition board of these peer institutions Review, "A significant in­has been higher than Notre crease in endowed scholar-Dame's during the 1980's." 
THE PHILADELPHIA INSTITUTE 



Detnandfor our graduates exceeas supply 2to1. 
The Philadelphia Institute• is The. Institute for Employee Benefits Training The. Institute for Tax and Fiduciary Management The. Institute for Paralegal Training (with specialties in International Trade Law, Litigation Management, Real Estate Law, General Practice, Public Law, and Corporate Finance and Business Law) The. Law School Transition Program The. London Summer International Legal Studies Program, and much more. 

A New Class of Law and Management Professionals Over 7,000 college graduates have used our 4-month graduate­level programs to qualify for positions with some of the best law firms, corporations, banks, and financial institutions in the country. Our placement setvice will help you find a job in the dty of your choice-a setvice backed by a unique tuition refund. 
B.A. requued. For information and a free booklet entitled OPTIONS: New Careers in Law and Business, return the cou­pon or calll-800-222-4758. In PA, call (215) 567-4811. 
We'll be on campus Mar. 2 
Contact your placement office to arrange for an interview. 

Nationwide, lifttime job plactmtnt GSL Loans (up to $7,500) Housing Merit Scholarships 
THE 
PH ILADELPH lA 
INSfiTUTE 
Approvtd by tht American Bar Association 1 Phon<.,---:--------;:--:-­
(present) RUND lhome) 
We've put more'than 7,000 college educations to work. 

-
The Observer 
page 3 


By FRANK MORENO 
News Staff 
The Hall President's Council debated reviving the Sowder Award which was formerly presented monthly to the dorm which expressed outstanding spirit, but was discontinued last year. 
A proposal was made to resurrect the award to be given to the dorm which produced the best, creative, non-alcoholic event that promotes dorm uni­ty. Tom Tisa, Flanner Hall Co­president suggested that it be a semester or yearly award rather than a monthly award. 
A proposal was made to resurrect the award to be given to the dorm which produced the best, creative, non-alcoholic event that promotes dorm uni­ty. Tom Tisa, Flanner Hall Co­president suggested that it be a semester or yearly award rather than a monthly award. 
"I think that this would be 


are better with 
Your Group and 

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 
very good in increasing unity within the dorms and would en­courage new, creative events for the campus," said Tisa. 
The visit by President Reagan is set for March 9 at about noon. Since the Knute Rockne stamp dedication is non-academic in nature, classes will not be cancelled. There will be a stamp in­auguration ceremony in the Joyce ACC at which the Presi­dent will speak. 
The HPC also discussed the amendments which were pro­posed and passed by the Stu­dent Senate and which will be voted on in next week's meeting. 
The first amendment con­cerned the introduction of a new business committee, sepa­rate from the present Student Union Board, but with a repre­sentative structure that is par­allel to it. Student Body Presi­dent Pat Cooke explained that it would provide the organiza­tion with people who have a bet­
ter backround with student-run 
businesses. 
The second proposed amend­
ment discussed the implemen­
tation of a new Student Senate 
position which would give the 
Senate an unbiased outside per­
spective of campus issues. 
Carol Seager, director of Uni­
versity Health Services, spoke 
to the HPC concerning the cen­
ter's desire to make proactive 
changes and gather input from 
the students at times other than 
when hurt or sick. 
Seager also expressed inter­
est in holding information ses­
sions about general health on 
topics such as nutrition, signs 
of common illnesses and first 
aid. She also spoke of AIDS dis­
cussions and pamphlet dis­
tributions for ND students. 
Susan Coene, president of 
Farley Hall, expressed interest .in having health experts hold­ing these discussions in the dor­
mitories. 
win to sticking to the issues and holding onto his temper in the face of provocations from Bush's campaign aides. 
But he said he faces an uphill battle against the vice presi­dent in New Hampshire. "Let's face it, I'm behind," he said. "I'm not the front-runner in New Hampshire." 
The Senate Republican leader said he still viewed the campaign as a two-man race between himself and the vice president, Robertson's surpris­ing finish aside. 
But it was clear that the Re­publican campaign had under­gone an opening night up­heaval. 
"Certainly Robertson will be a factor. I think Jack Kemp will be a major factor in New Hampshire -something that hasn't been discussed much of late," said Elsie Vartanian, head of the state Republican Party. 
"I think most people would admit that the whole race has been thrown upside down," said Kemp, who appeared at a New Hampshire Statehouse rally. 



Primary 
continued from page 1 
tant thing is who comes in second." 
Dukakis predicted he would carry the state next Tuesday but neither he nor his aides wanted to predict a margin. "I think after New Hampshire the field will be narrower and we will be the front-runner," he said in an interview. 
He added, "I think it's going to be more aggressive, only be­cause the field now is going to begin to narrow. " 
There was no disagreement on that point. Traditionally, the first primary is also the last for many of the also-rans. 
And with only a week until the election, Iowa's winners scarcely had time to savor their success before flying halfway across the country. 
Dole attributed his easy Iowa 


page 4 

Oldest applicant gets green card 
Associated Press 
HARLINGEN, Texas -There was a cake, an applauding crowd and even a Valentine's Day greeting, but what great­grandmother Clara Escobedo de Martinez appreciated most Tuesday was the little green card declaring her a per­manent U.S. resident. 
Escobedo, at 98 the oldest person to apply for amnesty un­der the new federal immigra­tion program, had confounded the government's computers because they didn't know how to process an alien born in 1889. 
But in a ceremony that drew about 50 people -including rela­tives and the regional Im­migration and Naturalization Service commissioner -she received her permanent resi­dent card and an application for citizenship more than 60 years after she first came to the United States. 
"I feel very content and thank all of the people who have gone to this trouble with­out me deserving it, and I hope the Lord multiplies all of your blessings in all aspects," Es­cobedo said in Spanish. 
She beamed demurely at a cake proclaiming "Congratula­tions, Clara" in Spanish and at the applauding crowd, and smiled happily when INS 

Grades 
continued from page 1 
Father Leonard Banas, as­sistant chairman of the depar­tment of modern and classical languages, said his opinion on the new system was "between indifferent and in favor." Banas pointed out that the new system "gives the teacher more leeway in distinguishing between certain quality (of work)." 
Banas said he had witnessed several changes in the grading system while teaching at Notre Dame, and his favorite was a percentile system which gave grades of zero to 100. 
Professor Al Neiman, an as­sistant dean in the College of Arts and Letters and director of the core course program, is in favor of the new system. Neiman said the ability to give B +grades would be helpful to professors because "what of­ten happens is that you have too wide of a range of students in the B category (with the present system). You don't want to diminish (the value of) an A-, so you wind up giving a lot of Bs." 
Neiman cited a case in his 
own graduate school days at 
Notre·Dame when he received 
a B, even though his grades in 
the course were A-, A-, B + and 
B + . His professor had to give 
him a B, even though he had 
never received a grade that low 
throughout the semester. 
Said Neiman, "I have often 
been in the situation where I 
wished I had that B +to give." 

Correction 
The name of next year's Student Union Board Manager was misspelled in Tuesday's Observer. His name is Brian Reilly. 

Regional Commissioner Step­hen Martin gave her a V alen­tine's Day card. 
"I think this is great. We've been waiting for this," said great-granddaughter Rakel Zarate, who attended the cere­mony with her mother. 
Escobedo has said she also plans to apply for citizenship, and has agreed to appear in a series of television commer­cials produced by the INS to promote its legalization pro­gram. 
A study issued Tuesday in Washington urged the INS-to conduct a major marketing ef­fort to attract applicants be­cause the amnesty program is in danger of falling below its original estimate of covering 2 million people. 
Martin said Escobedo is eli­gible for citizenship because of the years she lived legally in the United States before losing her legal status and later re­turning as an illegal alien. 
"Actually what we're doing now is putting things in proper order. We're restoring to her her permanent residency," Martin said. 
Wednesday, February 10, 1988
The Observer 


The Observer I Rob Regovich

Hey there, big guy ... 

This sultry student must be thinking of one thing only Saturday night-"Will my date be wearing my dress?" as he prepares for the Breen-Phillips Mardi Gras SYR 
~~-: ~·
.....q 
,:.:.~13t:~:£n:f 
0978. 

3112 ~SOOb ~..-·­
... ··s' ,. u 
-

..c''~!1s:.:~L 
··~..,.,.......,~-' ® 

The American Express'" Card can play a starring role virtually anywhere you shop, from lUisa to Thailand. Whether you're buying a 'IV or aT-shirt. So during college and after. it's the perfect way to pay for just about evel)1hing you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. Whether you're a freshman. senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application. The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without It'"' 
II
TllAVEL 
RELATED 
• SERVICES 



Wednesday, February 10, 1988 

SMC board discusses 
By JULIE RYAN The platforms of the candi­
News Staff dates are due Feb. 17. This will 
finalize their commitment to 

Saint Mary's Board of Gover­the campaign and also notify 
nance discussed the upcoming other students of their views. student body and class elec­Hetterich mentioned the Stu­tions and the Alumni Speaker dent Government Manual Series. needs to be rewritten before the 
"We were really excited new officers take office to 
about the turnout of the candi­clarify some of its inconsis­dates." said Eileen Hetterich, tencies, and reminded officers student body president. she is looking for writers. 
Three sophomore, four Judy Borelli, a professor of junior, one senior, and three reading and language at student body tickets will be Central Connecticut Univer­participating in the election. sity, will be speaking in the 



Security Beat 
Monday, February 8 
X:40 a.m.-A South Bend resident reponed losing his hearing aid in the parking area cast of the Stadium, across from Gate .l of the Joyce ACC sometime between 10:15 and II p.m. 
II :00 a.m.-A Morrissey Hall resident reponed losing his wallet and its contents at Campus View Apartments sometime between 9:30 
p.m. and midnight on Feb. 3. His loss is estimated at $25. 
I:40 p.m.-A Security officer extinguished a toaster oven grease fire in the basement kitchen of Farley Hall. There were no injuries and damage was mmimal. 
3:00 p.m.-A resident of Alumni llall reponed losing his wallet and its contents at an unknown location. His loss is valued at $20. 
9:30 p.m.-A South Bend resident reponed that some unknown person had chained the bumper of her car to a cement post in the Main Circle. When she pulled away it ripped the bumper off of her vehicle. Damage estimate is $300. 
II :48 p.m. An off-campus student reponed the loss of his wallet and its contents between the Rockne Memorial and Hesburgh Library sometime between 2 and 4 p.m. on Sunday. 
4:00a.m.-An overhead door of the Press Gate of the Stadium had been crashed into by an unknown vehicle. Damage is estimated at $1,000. 
The Observer 

elections 
Alumni Speaker Series Feb. 15 at 6:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. Borelli was an elemen­tary education major and 1974 graduate of Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's Hoard ot Gover­nance, with Campus Alliance Rape Elimination, will sponsor a talk by Mary Koss, professor of psychology at Kent State University, about acquaint­ance rape on college campuses. The talk will be given Feb. 16 at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 
Tuesday, February 9 
II: 15 a.m. Two students reponed the theft of their leather jackets and contents from the first floor racquetball coun in the Rockne Memorial. Their combined loss is estimated at $710. 
2:00 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reponed that he lost his wallet at The Huddle pizza counter at about 
7:30 p.m. on Monday. His loss is estimated at $50. 
2:00 
p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reponed the theft of a textbook from the South Dining Hall sometime between 5 p.m. and 6: 15 p.m. on Feb. 

I. 
His loss is estimated at $25. 


2:25 p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh Hall reponed the theft of his leather jacket and contents from an unlocked locker at the Rockne Memorial sometime between I :20 and 2:20 p.m. His loss is estimated at $200. 
Army says soldier shot Arab teen; 51 dead in two months 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -The army said Tuesday an Israeli officer shot and wounded a 16-year-old Arab protester, and Arab reports said another youth died of beating injuries. A Jewish settler was being investigated in the fatal shooting of a demonstrator. 
U.S. envoy Richard Murphy began talks Tuesday night with Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir on a peace process to help end rioting in occupied ter­ritories that has claimed 51 lives since Dec. 8. 
Shamir lashed out at the Palestine Liberation Organiza-

WORK. SHARE. 
LIVE. SAVE LIVES. 
You can ha\l: a ~ummer lull ol UlhCtJIUrl: & pcr~onal grov.th v.hile tmpro\ing health for the people ol l.atin America 
\'Oll'\lFER' 
lo he an Amtgm \oluntccr. v.ntc: Amtgo' de Ia~ Amcnca\, 511 I K Star I.ant:. llou,ton. Icxa' 77057. 
Or l'ali: 71.1-7K2-52YO or KOO-::!J I-77Yh 
(X00-1Y2-45XO tn 
lcx';;AI-IillftJ 
tion for its plans to send a boat loaded with 200 Arab deportees back to Israel from Athens, Greece. He called the action a "declaration of war" against Israel. 
The Palestine Press Service, an Arab-run news agency, said Fuad Tarazi, 17, of Gaza City died Tuesday of injuries sus­tained during a beating while in army custody. 
Palestinian sources said sol­diers chased the youth after he threw stones and arrested him in his house Monday. His mot­her told a reporter: "They took my son, they beat him. They broke his bicycle." 
The army confirmed Tarazi's death but said the cause was under investigation. 
A military spokesman said that during a demonstration an Israeli officer drew his pistol and shot a 16-year-old Palestin­ian in the legs in Rafah, a Gaza Strip town bordering Egypt. 
The Palestine Press reported four separate incidents in which Jewish settlers smashed car windows or damaged houses in Arab areas of the West Bank Monday night and early Tuesday. The army said it had no information or that police were investigating. 

Yosef Fares, spokesman for Samaria police, said a settler would appear before a judge for a bail hearing in the shoot­ing death of a 25-year-old Arab on Monday. 
Fares said two settlers from 
the Jewish settlement of 
Kedumim came to the Arab vil­
lage of Kfar Qaddoum to pick 
up workers Monday and were 
stopped by stone-throwing, 
masked youths. He said one 
settler shot in the air with an 
Uzi submachine gun. 
"We suspect that the man who was killed was killed by one of those bullets," he said, adding that under Israeli Jaw a suspect may be held in custody but is not charged until the in­vestigation is completed. 
Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin said a minority of the 65,000 Jewish settlers were in­volved in vigilante acts, but they could cause great harm. 
Don Ernesto Feliz Camploanos. para el anclano qae a panta de traba)o se ha ganado naestro carlno. 
Gals & Guys 


The Observer I Rob Regovich

Break-time? 
Frosty the Snowman is the only one who would consider stopping be­tween classes at this snow-covered table outside of Hayes-Healy Center, at least until June, when the snow melts. 





Tests 
continued from page 1 
each department submitted a proposal for the type of exams which they thought would best fit the discipline," said Sr. Miriam Cooney, chair of the mathematics department. Earlier, she said, the exams were all in written format. 
The mathematics compre­hensive is based upon a semi­nar which runs for two semesters, said Cooney. "In the second semester, students work independently with fac­ulty advisors," she said. 
Students incorporate both new and old material to prepare a series three highly technical seminar talks, said Cooney. "Our grads all tell us that it is the most valuable ex­perience of college," she said. 
Humanistic studies majors are given two weeks to write a 25-30 page comprehensive paper, said Debby Storey, a humanistic studies major. The paper consists of five questions in three areas: art and culture, history and colloquia, said Storey. 
"I think that any experience writing a lengthy paper is worthwhile," said Storey. "But I think they (the comprehen­sives) should all be done either for credit or for a grade so that there would be more incentive to do well rather than just to pass," she said. 
Business majors must take two comprehensive exams, one in their field of concentration and one covering their core courses, said Suzanne Raco, a business student. 
Raco expressed mixed feelings about the exams. "It's a good way to summarize all that you have learned but it's also a lot of re-memorization," she said. "Its a tough time to take exams because a lot of people are also interviewing for jobs." She added, "I think the exams should be something more beneficial, like present­ing company reports." 
Chemistry and physics majors must complete both a written comprehensive test and an oral seminar presenta­tion, said Dr. Margaret Cavanaugh, chair of the chemistry and physics depart­ment. 
"Although it's time-consuming, the experience it­self is a valuable one," said Cavanaugh. Many grads have to give oral presentations within their first month in in­dustry, she said. "They come back and say that their com­prehensives prepared them for this," Cavanaugh said. 
Jennifer Duker, a chemistry major, said she thinks the ex­perience of doing research for her presentation is very bene­ficial. Duker's research in­volves the study of cells in rat lung tissues. 
"I'll be glad when they (the comprehensives) are over," said Anastasia Borgman, a theatre major. "It's hell." "There is not enough time on top of regular classes," she added. 
For her comprehensive Borgman must write a lengthy play analysis. She must also stage the play and choose a set design and costumes. 
Art majors are expected to work independently and with­out feedback from their profes­sors on their pieces, said art major Gretchen Berlacher. They (the professors) want to see what we do on our own, she said. 
Comprehensives begin right after Christmas break and end in March when the works are shown in the gallery, said Ber­Jacher. Students may choose whatever medium they want to use, she said. 
"Most art majors put in five or six hours a day working on their pieces," said Berlacher. "While the experience is good and valuable for my portfolio, I think that for this much work we should receive credit hours instead of a pass, fail or honors," she said. 
Wednesday, February 10, 1988
The Observer 

Ex-associate: Noriega is behind large criminal enterprises 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A former associate portrayed Panamanian strongman Manuel Antonio Noriega on Tuesday as the driving force behind a "gigantic machine" that generated hundreds of mil­lions of dollars through drug trafficking, money laundering, gunrunning and other criminal enterprises. 
Jose Blandon, a former Panamanian intelligence offi­cial fired by General Noriega as his country's counsel gen­eral in New York, also said Cuban President Fidel Castro once personally intervened in a dispute between Noriega and the Medellin drug cartel in Colombia. 
One cocaine shipment by an alleged Noriega associate in­volved an apparent connection to the U.S.-backed Contra· rebels in Nicaragua, Blandon told a Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee. 
Blandon also testified that Noriega, Panama's military chief, worked closely with the CIA and regularly received classified reports on the politi­cal leanings and personal lives of U.S. senators and congres­sional staff members. 
The CIA reports, along with others prepared by the Na­tional Security Council staff, included information on the ac­tivities of Sen. Jesse Helms,
Monday? 

After Iowa, candidates now begin their fight for survival 
Associated Press Former Secretary of State Dukakis' New HampshireAlexander Haig Jr. has been on neighbors had better be kind to 
CONCORD, N.H. -The testy the edge ever since he started him or his bubble will burst. exchanges that marked the thinking about really being in It's over for Gary Hart. The final week of the Iowa cam­charge at the White House. only question is whether he 
paign should look like Valen­Making better runs than knows it. tines when compared with the Haig, but equally in need of a Sen. Albert Gore Jr. of Ten­fight for survival in the seven lot of help from New nessee is the forgotten man of days before the New Hampshire Republicans next the Democratic race. He Hampshire primary. Tuesday, were Rep. Jack Kemp passed up Iowa and appearsWith a record turnout, of New York and former Gov. ready to do the same in New 
Iowans delivered a tough mes­Pete du Pont of Delaware. Hampshire, a strategy that 
sage to candidates in both Among the Democrats, depends on the rest of the field 
major parties. To many of the former Gov. Bruce Babbitt of to keep his hopes alive. 
13 contenders, they served Arizona will soon be just a 
notice that New Hampshire pleasant memory, a man who The candidates who came out 
could be the last stand for their displayed more wit than broad of Iowa in the best shape were 1988 hopes. voter appeal. easy to spot -Republicans Bob The most prominent figure in For Sen. Paul Simon of Illi­Dole and Pat Robertson and trouble is Vice President nois, second in Iowa won't be Democrats Gephardt and Jesse 
George Bush. And it must be good enough if he can't move Jackson. 
small consolation that there ahead of Rep. Richard Gep­
are other Republicans teeter­hardt of Missouri in the next Now that there is a dynamic
ing much closer to the edge of contest. set by votes rather than opinion 
political oblivion. Massachusetts Gov. Michael polls, what is likely to happen? 
said. the last three or four years and 
Francis said the opinion polls although I disagree with Pres­
he has seen are all against aid ident Reagan about this, I think 
Contra 
continued from page 1 

to the Contras. this is an issue in which he has in a negative way, Reagan's "There has been an enor­shown some political going to be, five minutes later mous amount of polling over courage," Francis said. ... back on Capitol Hill with a 
-''"'"''''.."'"""'""''"'"'"'"''''''"''''"'''""''""'''''''"''"'''"''""""'' 
bill," Francis said. 

The Contras may turn to fundraising in the United States to provide money, 
-~ 

Francis said, adding they might also seek the help of right-wing governments such 
~~ 

as South Africa and Taiwan. The vote should have a 
-Pinko~red copies Vz off withi f!.~ 
"favorable" effect on peace 
this coupon. ~r ­
talks that began recently be­tween the Contras and the San­dinista government of Nicaragua. 
kinko•s® 
"As long as the Contras think they have a pipeline to the 
18187 State Road 23 South Bend, Indiana 46637 
Congress and think that they 
Telephone 219 271-0398
are doing well, there's no rea­
,_

son for them to negotiate or 
..................................................................................................
make any concessions," he R-N.C., a leading Noriega critic, and on Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., Blandon said. 
Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., heading the congressional in­vestigation, said such reports would be "reprehensible" and that if the testimony proves correct, those responsible should be fired. 
Efforts to reach CIA officials for comment were not immedi­ately successful. 
Kerry said key U.S. agencies, including the Drug Enforcement Administration and the State Department were until recently either "duped" by Noriega or blinded to the na­ture of his enterprises by their interest in Panama's strategic importance as the site of the Panama Canal. 
Using a set of charts, Blan­don described a network of people and allegedly used by Noriega to profit from drug­running and money-laundering operations. 
He estimated the Panamanian leader's fortune at least $200 million but said there are some estimates peg­ging it closer to $1 billion. 
He said Noriega lives lavish­ly, maintaining a dozen homes in Panama, a fleet of luxury cars and aircraft and a residence in France. 
Blandon said Noriega began to build a criminal organization in the earlv 1970s when he served as Panama's intelli­gence chief. He said the gen­eral consolidated his power on becoming chief of the nation's armed services in 1983, after an internal struggle that fol­lowed the 1981 death in an airplane crash of the country's ruler, Gen. Omar Torrijos. 
Testifying under oath and through a tt:"anslator, Blandon said Noriega transformed Panama's national guard into the Panamanian Defense Force and injected it into "such normally civilian responsibili­ties as immigration and cus­toms, the ports, railroads and airports." 
"Together, Noriega and his group turned Panama into a gigantic machine for all sorts of criminal activities and en­terprises," said Blandon, whose appearance was marked by intensive security precau­tions. 
Noriega has adamantly denied the accusations by Blan­don, a political rival. Noriega's lawyers have demanded the right of cross-examination to protect their client from al­legedly "vicious untruths." 
Noriega was indicted by a federal grand jury in Miami last week on charges he ac­cepted at least $4.6 million to 
make Panama a safe haven for drug and money-laundering operations. 


~....a....... 

The Observer I Rob Regovich

Arctic art 
Freshman Chris Carroll takes a stroll across the white, barren Arctic, 
a.k.a. South Quad by O'Shaughnessey Hall, as he takes notes on the Mestrovic Fountain statues for a descriptive paper he is doing. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for. the following position: 
Saint Mary's Day Editors 
Must be available 12:30-3:30 any week day. 
For further information contact Sandy Cerimele at The Observer (239-5303) 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, February 10, 1988 page 7 
•

ND IS unaware of the world around it 

At the risk of sounding "preachy," I would like to offer my recent reflections on life at Notre Dame. As a student deeply devoted to the Golden Dome who has chosen to study abroad in France for a year, I have experienced a homesickness which has given me a great need to hold on to that devotion and to see Notre Dame as the perfect place to be. However, I am finally beginning to take a step back and look twice at where the grass seems to be so green. 
Tara Cosacchi 
guest column 

Notre Dame, sadly located in a fairly inactive community, has created its own world, around which everything seems to revolve. This, however, is not an excuse to be shut off from the real world. I was disappointed and even em­barrassed to read, on the front page of a recent Observer, that there was a Viewpoint article "from Germany," when in fact the letter inside came from a student on the Innsbruck, Austria Foreign Study Program (the letter even mentioned this in the first sen­tence). The error was not even recog­nized in the next issue. This example unfortunately demonstrates a cruel ig­norance. Is Notre Dame so closed to the world that it does not even know where its own students abroad are lo­cated? 
Also, in a recent Observer, some Democratic students mentioned their disappointment in the reaction (or lack thereof) of the student body to a previ­ous letter they had written. There is plenty of talk about the crime in South Bend whfch directly affects the stu­dents. However, when an issue does not dramatically intrude on the students' lives, it seems impossible to get a re­action. For a well-reputed liberal arts university, Notre Dame is embarrass­ingly inactive. I, myself, am realizing how guilty I am of a lack of knowledge about the world, and I hope that by the time I return to Notre Dame I will be informed enough to keep my interest going, despite the absence of a fertile ground there for nourishing debate and reflection on world issues. 
One of the things I respect most about the Notre Dame community is the strong set of morals the students up­hold. I do not criticize the good hearts and the good minds which abound un­der the Golden Dome. The problem, however, lies in the peace, tranquility and easy life (aside from the pressure of studies), which make it all too easy to find excuses to avoid becoming familiar with current events. A change needs to occur where students would encourage each other not only to be in­trospective, but also to look outside at what is happening in other parts of the world. Notre Dame students have such a wasted capacity to make changes. A move toward awareness cannot occur if all one discusses over dinner is what is in the salad bar or if all one reads in the paper is the personals and the com­ics. I am guilty of this as much as anyone, and I hope that by realizing it I can have the motivation to change it. 
I look forward to coming back to Notre Dame in August and falling back into life there after having been away for a year. However, I hope that the view I have had from afar will remain in my mind and allow me to avoid be­coming lost in such a simple world and to forget about the real world crying outside. Until then, perhaps the aware­ness on campus will be sparked by an upcoming presidential election and an increasingly more desperate famine in Ethiopia. I can only hope that the high moral standards represented at Notre Dame will eventually lead the student body to expand its horizons beyond the lush gardens under the Golden Dome. 
Tara Cosacchi is a sophomore studying in Angers, France. 
P.O. Box Q 
Reagan worthy of some respect 
Dear Editor: 
Last week during lunch, I overheard some conversation which really both­ered me. It was about President Reagan's planned visit to Notre Dame. A girl sitting near me spouted, "How dare he have the gall to associate him­self with Notre Dame just because he did a movie about Knute Rockne." As if that wasn't enough, I later hear a girl say "We'll probably have to sing for him," to which her friend replied, "Yeah, I have to play for him in the band." 
Now, maybe I misinterpreted what I heard, but if not, I have two things to say. First, it's often been said that Notre Dame is politically unaware, and the above conversation is a great ex­ample of that problem. The man we're talking about is Ronald Reagan, but he is also the president of our country. Now, there's a critical difference be­tween the man and the office. In America, we don't have to like or respect the man (but how can we dislike him without personally knowing him?) or his policies (but if we don't like his policies, why did we elect him?). But, if we suppose that we live in this country by choice, then we must 
Doonesbury 
respect the work he does as the leader of our country. Resenting the fact that he visits our school is something we really have no right to do. 
What is also at issue here is someth­ing I see far too often: I'm sick and tired of the Notre Dame arrogance that I see all over this school. People here seem to think that his school is the most sacred place in the world. Some stu­dents think that we are the most moral, upstanding, intelligent, God-chosen students anywhere. I see this opinion in newspaper articles that read some­thing like "it's shocking that this place is as insensitive about fat jokes as it is;" and in bumper stickers: "God made Notre Dame £1;" and in the bookstore, where you can't buy a pair of socks or a candy bar without an "ND" plastered all over it. And now, the epitome of it all, "How dare the President of the United States have the gall to associate himself with Notre Dame... ?" And I thought "God, Country, Notre Dame" was bad enough. Is it now "God, Notre Dame, Country" or "Notre Dame, God, Country?" 
The fact is, as shocking as it may be, that the people here are the same as those anywhere else. We will continue to have "unChristianlike" food fights, we will continue to support both sides of the abortion issue, and we will con­tinue to enjoy alcohol. 
It's OK to like Notre Dame, but to worship it such that we think that we're somehow better or more important than the rest of our country is a serious mistake. 
Bob Hallahan Holy Cross Hall Feb. 8, 1988 
A call for tasteful support of hockey 
Dear Editor: 

Last weekend was a great one for the Notre Dame Hockey team. I write to thank you for your boisterous support. Your cheering certainly woke up the echoes and shook down the thunder! 
Your support this season has played a large part of the resurgence of the hockey program. We are upgrading our schedule for next year and plan to have an even stronger team. We will con­tinue to work hard to provide you with the "best" college hockey entertain­ment possible. But we need your help. 
Larry (the ZAM man) and I were talking the other day, and we both agreed that the "cheering" was a bit off-color at times. Imagine, if you would, trying to explain to my tour­year-old son the virtue of good sports­manship when some of you were screaming obscenities at the Air Force team. Imagine the many other hockey fans who were offended. Please be aware that we need those people to con­tinue their support of Irish Hockey too. We want them to have a great evening and come back again and again. 
Then there was the tennis ball bar­rage. As harmless as that may seem, it almost cost us a bench penalty at a critical time in the game. After the warning by the referee yet another baH came sailing from the student section. It could have cost us the game! Please, no more tennis ba1ls. 
I think that you'll agree, all of us at Notre Dame have a lot to be proud of. The team is simply trying to provide yet another source of pride. It involves the fair play and good sportsmanship of the players and coaches just as it involves the display of good sportsman­ship by the fans. 
Mind you, we encourage you to boo, hiss and razz our opponents. But let's do our razzing in a more tasteful man­ner. In short, let's refrain from the profane. 
Like the hockey team, let's all use some creativity to make "Hockey Night at Notre Dame" better each weekend. I thank you in advance for your an­ticipated cooperation. Go Irish! 
Ric Schafer 
Notre Dame Hockey Coach 
Feb. 9, 1988 


Garry Trudeau ....-----------------. 
Quote of the Day 
"Wealth does not bring about excellence, but ex­cellence brings about wealth and all other private and public blessings for men." 
Socrates 
329-399 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 

Bus•ness Manager ............................ John Oxrider Managing Editor .. . ..... Mark Pankowski 
Editor·m·Chiel ..... . Kevin Becker Advertising Design Manager.. .. ...... Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 

News Editor . . . Chns Bednarski Advertising Manager..... .. . .. ............ Steve Clark News Editor .. .. Jim Riley Production Manager... .. ...... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor . Chris Murphy 
Projects Manager... .. .... Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students ol the University of 
Systems Manager............ .. ........ Shawn Sel!ton
Sports Editor ....... . Dennis Corngan
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Michael Naughton Controller...................... . .. Tracy Schindele
Accent Editor ... ...

the adminostrat1on ol e1ther 1nst1tution. The News is repo~ as accurately and objectively as 
Graphic Arts Manager... .. ........ Laura Stanton
Saint Mary's Editor. .. Sandy Ceromele
poss1ble. Unsigned edilonals represent lhe op1n10n of lhe maJOrity ol the Editorial Board Photo Ed1tor ... . .. Jim Carroll
Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present lhe views ol their authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members ol the school community, and the free eKpression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Accent
page 8 Wednesday, February 10, 1988 

Community brings identity 
TIM DEMPSEY Coming together as a family what it is we think we know. accent writer 
we notice that we hurt differ­It is an issue of constructing 
T
ently, yet we all hurt; we laugh an identity. On one side of the Tim Dempsey, a Notre Dame differently, yet we all laugh; we fence, the student finds himself senior who lives at the South grieve differently, yet we all in a minefield of ideas. He is Bend Dismas House, shares his grieve. Our community is given driven to question the beliefs reflections on life in the Dis­life by its openness. It is this he has grown up with and, mas community. openness which challenges us consequently, the identity he he most frequent question to question what we believe has constructed for himself. I'm asked about living with and who we are. On the opposite side of the ex-offenders is, "How do you fence, the ex-offender has been
It is•••a strange, 


HEIDI SCHLUMPF accent writer 

N
otre Dame does not allow any co-ed student housing. True? 
False. Dismas House, where Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students live with ex-offenders, is the one exception. 
"Family life is co­educational," said Kathy Royer, president of Dismas of Mic­hiana and coordinator for so­cial service action groups at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. 
"And Dismas is a really sup­portive family," said student resident Tara Durney. 
"I like how close-knit every­one is," added Roy Williams, a The ObserveiYJim Brake 
32-year-old ex-offender. "When Residents of the South Bend Dismas House spend some relaxing time together. one suffers, then we all suffer. South Bend. Notre Dame al-a mask. I did it so long that have lived at Dismas House in When one feels good, we all lowed students to move into the real me escaped. I came South Bend have returned to feel good." the house in September of here to find the real me again." prison. Nationally, the 
Reverend Jack Hickey, O.P., 1986. Currently, eight stu-The community at Dismas recidivism rate is 85 percent. the Catholic chaplain at Van­dents, four ex-offenders, and House offers an atmosphere "I saw a lot of people come derbilt University in Nashville, three house directors make up for trust, reconciliation and a back (to prison)," said Roy Wil-Tenn., founded the nation's the community. new start. "In prison either you Iiams. "I knew I would have to first Dismas House in Nashville The experiment has seen 16 dominate or you are try extra hard not to go back." in 1974 as an extension of the months of challenges, disap-dominated," said Roy Williams. The house rules at Dismas Vanderbilt Prison Project. pointments and successes. ·"To survive I had to dominate. are simple and few: no vio-Today, five houses -in Nash­"You get as much out of it as To escape that, I came here." lence, no illegal drugs or sub-ville, Memphis and Merryville, you're open to," said student Roy Williams claims the key stance abuse, no disturbing the Tenn., in Burlington, Vt., and Kristen Williams, who lived at to readjustment after release peace and no sex. The resi­in South Bend -house students Dismas last year and returned from prison is patience. dents voted at the beginning of and ex-offenders in a caring for a second year. "People will turn their backs on the school year not to allow community atmosphere. Dismas House offers a sup-you; the stigma (against ex-any alcoholic beverages in the 
Dismas House of Michiana portive community for ex-offenders) is nationwide. A lot house because a few of the began when Carol Gayas, a offenders who need help read-of guys can't handle the low-house residents are recovering Notre Dame senior, spent the justing to society. Very little in paying jobs, but you've got to alcoholics. summer of 1984 working at prison prepares them for life be patient. Everyone is assigned a house the Nashville Dismas House. outside of prison. In Indiana, "Being around students and chore and a night to do dishes. That fall, she approached they are handed $75 when they the success-oriented atmo-All residents must also attend South Bend's United Religious leave and wished good luck. sphere motivates me to be weekly house meetings. Both Community's Ex-Offenders Task "First you have to want to something, to do something the students and ex-offenders Force about starting a Dismas stay straight," said Roy Wil-productive with my life," he currently pay $53 per week for House here. Iiams. He came to Dismas said. room and board. 
The group purchased a large House "to escape old habits, Dismas House's support sys-"Once people move into the three-story, Queen Anne-style old places. For me it was an tern and caring atmosphere house, they're no longer ex-home and began raising funds environmental change. has been successful. Only three offenders or students. They're to open a Dismas House in "In prison you have to put on of eighteen ex-offenders who residents." said Sal Harris, who 
Dis mas community offers a new start 
together with her husband, 
Leo, lives at Dismas House as 
a house director. 
The students living at Dismas House stress that they receive as many benefits from the community as the ex-offenders. "Nobody's trying to fix anybody," said Kristen Wil­liams. "We're all trying to grow as individuals. The only way to make a difference in anyone's life is through example, and that's what everyone does here." 
Kristen Williams said she moved into Dismas "to add some diversity to my college experience." 
Chris Shine, a second year law student, said that he decided to move into the house "because I have lived in a community before and en­joyed it." 
Durney said Dismas "seemed like an opportunity I couldn't pass up...an opportunity to love people and grow myself." 
Everyone agrees that living at Dismas House has been a growing experience. "It's prob­ably been the most dynamic experience of my life," said Durney. ''I've learned from other people what my weaknes­ses are, how to deal with them, and how to accept myself." 
"''m more open to communi­cating with people about prob­lems," said Shine. "''ve also learned a lot about people's misconceptions about the legal system." 
"They say that in a commu­nity you find yourself as an individual," said Kristen Wil­liams. "Now I believe it." 
Disrnas needs residents for both the summer and the school year. ror more informa­tion, contact Kathy Royer at the esc at 239-5239. 
help them get back on their 
feet?" The most frequent an­swer I give to this question is, 
"We don't." 
Normally this invites an awkward-looking, blank stare followed by, "Well then, what is it that you do with them?" The ridiculous fact is that we just live with them. 
The reasoning behind this peculiar sort of environment, where ex-offenders and stu­dents simply share the same roof, could only be born hi the mind of a dreamer. Yet this unique vision, when allowed to root, offers a new way of looking at things. 
To me, living in the Dismas House is a rare opportunity which allows many different stories to be told. 
dehumanizing process a person goes through when bars have been put in front of him. 

And through this openness, we are faced with the bit­tersweet realization that each of us has gotten very little right in our lives and that we're likely to continue getting just as little right. When we do fi· nally figure this out, the collar that has restrained our social, political, ethical and religious beliefs is cut loose. We begin to reconstruct and redefine who it is we think we are and 

A Dlsmas House resident meaningless to us as a pen becomes something which segregates prisoners into ones who are loved and ones who are not. 
In prison it is a struggle to hold onto some sort of iden­tity. For most this struggle is a slippery slope which breaks apart a person's identity yet offers no means of building up a new one. The Dismas House offers the ex-offender the op­portunity to build up his iden­tity again, and it offers the stu­dent a similar opportunity. 
The dynamic side of the Dis­mas House is the intense give­take relationships which develop. It is simply impossible to give without taking or take "accidentally'' stripped of his identity by the correctional sys­tem and forced, when given back to society, to attempt to reconstruct or rediscover the identity he has lost. (I say acci­dentally because the primary concern of the prison system is to rehabilitate the prisoner, not to dehabilitate him.) It is, however, a strange, dehumanizing process a per­son goes through when bars have been put in front of him. 
Prison staff and volunteers are asked not to give so much as a pen to an inmate. In an environment where numbers have replaced names, where men and women are referred to as "male" and "female", and where supper is simply a feeding time, an object as 
The ObserveiYJim Brake 

pauses to reflect on his life. without giving. It is this notion that bridges the tremendous rift between the cultures represented on the one side by the students and on the other side by the ex-offenders. 
Don't let the wording of what I've said lead you to think that ex-offenders are mindless drifters when they come through our doors. In fact, just the opposite is true. They are some of the most bright and insightful people I've met. The chord which we all strike to­gether is that, so far, we have all learned and developed in an environment which is fake. None of us has yet made it out in the world -perhaps we can prepare each other. 

Wednesday, February 10, 1988 The Observer page 9 
n.a.....Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· ct.nt Center, IICCePia classified .tv.tlslng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through F~. n.a.....Saint Mery'a office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, ~~CeePts cluelfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Mondey through F~. Deedllne for next-dey clasalfleds Is 3 p.m. All clasalfleds muet
Classifieds be prepeld, eltr-In penon or by mall. The cherge Is 10 cent. per five ctweclenl per day. 
The 5-10 and under league needs someone to organize next year's league. If interested, call Jim Manning at 283-1459. -The Observer 

NOTICES  FOUND: SMC 88 class ring al 733 St. Lou1s St. Sal. 2· 7 am during performance  TICKETS  To B/1/"Cud Mouth"F. I heard you were caught spending a night In the zoo with  GET  IT  CHEAP TONIGHT BRIDGET'S  AT  A warning lo all you earthling types. The MARTIAN LIBERATION ORGANI·  
of Robert Duvall and Napalm Surfers.Call  a cow. MOO! MOO! big (ella (rl Johnny  DRAFTS-25 CENTS  ZATION will not be stopped. Attempt to  
Sony DlakeHea Conlac1 T1m D1erks ol MadMacs lor the besl pnce on Sony DSOD 3.5" d•skettes lor your Macintosh r other computer. Call 283·2101 and help support lhe Mac1n· losh Users Groupl Guaranteed lor lila TYPING-WORD PROCESSING  D1rt 288·3421. I know this sounds weird, but did anyone lose a pair ol sneakers at lhe 21 party 1n Lyons on Saturday night? If 80, call 3026 to identify and cla1m.  :WANTED: :TWO G.A.s FOR UCLA GAME :PLEASE CALL AMY £2845 HELP!! II! Need UCLA Tickets BIG TIME CALL 271·0868 ask lor Missy, Carol or Susan Will trade lower arena tickets!! I  B. EARN MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK! JPW needs student workers. Call 239· 7814 for more info! SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMAL!!!  GET PHILOSOPHICAL AT CLUB BRIDGET NOTHING IS BETTER THAN SEX WARM BEER IS BETTER THAN NOTH­ING THEREFORE, WARM BEER IS BETTER  resist this painfully physical movement will be met with phorce. Have a mce day. ...................................... ············································ LULU 'SWEETNESS' BUFFALOCHIP  
CALL CHRIS 234·8997  FOR RENT  Need Vanderbilt tix-GA's and STUD's· Mike 1699  SENIOR FORMALIII  THAN SEX WEDNESDAY AT BRIDGET'S-25  I guess I need a date lor senior lormal. Busy?  
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY.  FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 277· 3097, 683-8889.  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE UCLA GAME PLEASE CALL NANCY x3885  SENIOR FORMALIII BID SALES MARCH 1,2,3  CENTS FOR THE BETTER OF THE TWO WHERE THE CAMPUS' GREAT MINDS  ·le Slud de l'amour  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  8 BDRM, 2 BATH WSHOWERS. ON BUS LINE TO NO. FURNISHED, GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD, $130STUDENT &  UCLA TICKETS WANTED 2 lower arena student or GA tickets. Call Mike at x3698  SENIOR 'FORMAL! II WATCH YOUR MAIL FOR DETAILS  PONDER THE ISSUES OF TODAY BRIDGET'S  " MARS SUCKS "  
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272-8827 TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-70011. Coke I& as Amencan as the Constrtulron. To dnnk 11 1s a duty LARRY SAYS:IRISH ICERS ARE ROCKIN,SO LETS ROLL WITH THEM ON THE ROAD Let me do your TYPING I Cell 784-2963 3:30-8pm S4 per page you aupply peper lOST/FOUND I I LOST A PAIR OF HUGE, WOOL, OR· ANGE, LIGHT BLUE,AND GREEN MIT· TENS IN O'SHAG. PLEASE RETURN TO TIFFANY 3390 IF FOUND -THEY ARE THE ONLY THINGS THAT WILL EVER MATCH AN ORANGE COAT THANK YOU!  UTILITIES. 233-9947 OR 287·3530. FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955'255· 3684 EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288· 0955 WANTED WANTED Macintosh senal HARD DRIVE lor Mac 512e with no SCSI port. Call 239·5n2 and leave a message for Man. Need Ride lo I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Converso· t1onalisl Call 1108 evenings. MALE TRANSFER STUDENT LOOKING FOR CHEAP SUB-LET FOR SUMMER MONTHS CALL X3484. OVERSEAS JOBS ..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Asla. :All llelda. $900-2000 mo. Slghtsee­lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52· IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625.  Desparately need UCLA G.A.s for my wealthy parents. They will pay big bucks or g1ve you a good deal on a Honda. Call Tim a11651. HELP! Need 3 UCLA tix stud or GAll 277-7137 need 1 STUDENT lickel for UCLA game:Tim 3451 HELP! I NEED UCLA GA'SII JOHN X1654 NEED 2 GA'S FOR UCLA WILL BUY OR TRADE FOR 2 STUDENT TIX CALL JILL 2702 HELPIII N.D.Grad Dad in for Soph. parents weekend. Need two tickets (either stu­dent or G .A.) for UCLA game. Please call ERIN: 284-5252 [PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. LAUD. BEACH LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL  SENIOR FORMALIIII GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII SENIOR FORMALIIII Lest Chance For Spring Break '881 Limited apace remain a at South Padre, North Padre, Daytona Beach, Fort Wal­ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado lor skiing. Hurry, Call SunchaS8 Tours toll lrae 1-800-321-5911 lor reserva· tiona and Information TODAY. Credit cards accepted. Theology Forum Members: Please at­tend an Important meeting on Tuesday February 11 at 10:00 P.M. In the llrat floor lounge ol St. Edwarda Hall. Your fellow students-Dave Klnkoll, Marty Tracey end Anne Marie Woll-wlll dis­cuss their papers on Hebrew Scrip­tures. Pizza will be served. Support your fellow students. HUMM HUMM F(Kalhryn, 1 ): 28.01.88,1orever Equals:COMFORTING : PAORE ISLANDS I've found sure thing in Miami. Need to sell round trip ticket to CORPUS CHRISTl from CHICAGO. call MARK at £2727 COCA-COLA SWEETENS APAR· THEID  YOU DO NOT EVEN KNOW HOW MUCH FUN YOU WILL HAVE! In the place my wonder comes from. . there I will find you, Always and forever swaying among the yellow grass. : Uttle Goat Kath, happy (a little late) birthday to one of my GRRRREATEST friends in the EXISTING world!!! Love, K.l.C. From Bill's home office at NO... top ten things lo do at the Grotto: 1 0) Dressed as a priest, offer obscene confessions 9) Toast marshmallows 8) Light candles you brought 7) Pick up sweet wholesome Catholic girls 6) Pray for BP chicks 5) Recruit lor the Hare Krishnas 4) Reenact scenes from Clan of the Cave Bear 3) When noone's looking blow out the candles 2) Pray Dillon is turned back to a guy's dorm 1) While hiding behind a bush, pretend to be God by speaking into a coffe can ELECT TOM EHRHARDT STUDENT SENATE DISTRICT 2 ELECT TOM EHRHARDT SENATE DIS· TRICT 2 ELECT TOM EHRHARDT SENATE DIS­TRICT 2  Need tix for UCLA b'ball --·stud or other· wise --WILL PAY CALL x2576 HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHLEEN! We hope that your birthday is the bestl Be prepared to celebrate your 20th in 4A style. Have a great day! Love Julie, Laura, Anne, Steph and lhe resl ol 4A Rick, The party al your house Sat. was fun, But the party at mine made the night great Sweet & funny guys like you are rare. Hope to see you out soon. -Charlie Cheswick I know thla aoundo weird, bul did anyone lose a pair of sneakers at the 21 party in Lyons Friday night? II so, call 3026 lo identify and claim. MARIA MILANO Tri·Mil was a SWEET time. Thanks again. Happy Valentine's Day--Have a SWEET One! STEVE DEAR RICKY, (RB£1) : NO SPECIAL DAY, NO SPECIAL OCCASION. JES' WANTED TO SAY I LOVE YOU, AND IrS REALLY NICE HAVING YOU AROUND, 'CUZ YOU MAKE LIFE LOTS OF FUN ... OK, IT'S ALSO 'CUZ I THINK YOU'RE KINDA CUTEI : YOURS AL· WAYS, RICKY'S GIRLFRIEND TOP 10 QUOTES FROM WALSH SYR 10.0H, YOU'RE WEARING A MINI·  -­ 
LOSIILOSTIILOST!ILOSTIILOST!I BROWN LEATHER WALLET WITH GOLD LETTERING C.S. ON FRONT PLEASE RETURN IT HIGH SENTIMEN· TAL VALUEII CALL x2508 REWARDIIREWARDII  TRANSLATORS NEEDED All LAN· GUAGES SEND RESUME & SAMPLES PO BOX11385 SO BEND IN 46634 NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS  Sunsalional beachlronl hotel lor Spring Break '88. Right on strip, close to all bars. Only $14G1>erson (4toom) lor 8 days, 7 nights ol Florida lun and sun. Call 1·800· ENJOY-US.  :HAVE A COKE AND SUPPORT RAC­ISM NEED 1 STUDENT OR GA UCLA TICKET CALL KAREN 2n-5195  RATTIYA, QUEEN OF ALL-NIGHTERS WITH THE MACINTOSH AND DESIG· NATED MOUSE KILLER FINALLY TURNS 20 TODAYI HAPPY DAYII WE'D BE YOUR FRIENDS EVEN IF WE  SKIRT 9. GOD, EILEEN HOW SLOSHED IS CHRIS? 8.HEY, WHERE DID MARK AND LAURA GO? 7.SO, WHEN DID YOU START LIKING GIRLS?  
LOST WALLET ·GREY, LEATHER WI I.D. KEYS -FOUR KEYS ON SILVER RING I lost them some!•me on Saturday ail or Sunday 'J/7 at e1lher the Huddle or Soulh Dining Hall Please call R1ch at 272-45t8 LOST MAN'S GOLD RING WITH ONYX SETTING, FRIDAY NIGHT, IN O'LAUGHLIN AUD OR IN BACK PAS·  WEEKEND CALL RICH AT 1148. D DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS WKND CALL STEVE AT £1078 NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND THIS WKND·WILLING TO SHARE RENTAL· PAULA £2674 HELP ME,SOMEBODY HELP ME. I  COKE SWEETENS APARTHEID (Nutrasweet or No) APARTHEID KILLS SUPPORT THE BOYCOTT SUMMER JOBS All LAN[}WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORNINGS 914·3814224  To the guys in 245 Nice picture on the door But haven't we seen this idea with lhe two celebrities across the hall Yes, we have, but we knew you'd like the personal P.S. You still owe us Chicago Dude:  DIDN'T HAVE TO LIVE WITH YOU! WE WANTED THIS TO RHYME BUT WE DIDN'T HAVE MUCH TIME. SAT NIGHT WE'LL PARTY AND MAKE YOU DO SHOTS OF BACARDI (OR WINE COOLERS). DON'T EAT TOO MUCH CAKE (OR AT LEAST DON'T WEAR SWEATS WHILE YOU DO IT!) LOVE, MAKD TO THE ROOMATES BIG GEORGE  HELP! RIDE NEEDED -OHIO TURNPIKE EXIT 11 2119-2121 WILL PAY CALL KRISTEN £1759 All is the antl-chrisllll TIGHE Don't llatter yoursell. Women don't wail around lor guys like you.  
SAGE OF ART EXHIBIT AREA. SEN· TIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 232·1555. REWARD  NEED A RIDE TO U OF M FOR THIS WEEKENDII WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND I'M NO CHEESEBALL. TOMMY 271·9467  IrS NOT TOO EARLY TO PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. AVOID THE RUSH AND COME IN ANY  Oh my God, like you should have seen lhis dudette like totally pukeoid Valley Dude  AND LINCOLN, WHO KEEP FALLING ON THEIR BOOTIES. THAN X FOR THE LAUGHS! LOVE, KAY AND ANG. SO COOL... IT'S SCARY!  Food lor Thought: Beware ol Women who cast barracuda leers.  
LOST ·IRISH FRIENDSHIP RING (Ciaddaugh) I lost a small (size 4) Irish lnendshlp ring lasl Friday n~ght. This ring haa greal sen11mental value, 80 PLEASE return 11 11 you found it. A reward will be offered. Call 283-3484 If you have my nng. Thanx. FOUND· AT THE LEWIS SYR A NAVY BLUE SPORTCOAT. THE BRAND NAME IS JOHN ALEXANDER; MADE  FOR SALE Mart1n M-36 acoustic guitar $775 232· 6528 Hohner 5-string bluegrass banjo-­prfessional qualify $375 232·6528  DAY FROM NOW UNTIL THURSDAY, FEB. 11. CELEBRATE VALENTINES DAY 2 TO 7 GET-TOGETHER (SATURDAY) CALL ROBIN AT 255·5974 FOR MORE INFO. Business & Society In Japan Optional Credltf'lnanclal Aid International Internship Programs 406 Colman Bldg., 811 let Ave.  Well, here we go again. The Boycott Is Over The Boycott is Over Sam It is a wonder how I get any sleep But 4:30 here is only 1 :30 where it counts Mr. LA  DAVID, CHOSEN ONE: SATURDAY NIGHT WE WILL MEET YOU FOR CEREMONIAL WINE. EXPECT A CALL SOON! YOURS IN YAWEH, INDIRA AND FRANCESCA. :LARRY SAYS:RICS RANGERS NEED YOU ON THE ROAD. Happlnesa Ia living In a Bob Dole America!  Fall lnlo THE GROOVE!! Reserve your seat today. THE GROOVE is comingll .......................................... YOW PRETTY LADIES AROUND THE WORLD: THE GROOVE BCAC TALENT SHOW, FEB 13, LIB. AUD., 7 P M. CHIPS FEB 23·24 TELL YOUR BROTHER, YOUR SISTER, AND YOUR MOMMA TOO!  
FOR G. FOX. CALL BRENNAN AT 2158  Yamaha PA, slave amp, mini-monitors  SeaHie, WA 98104 (206) 623-5539  
TO CLAIM LOST· Pa1r ol black HOTFINGER gloves Sat. N11e between ACC and Dillon lllound pleaS8 call Rob 1764 becauS8 my hands are cold. Thanx. Lost Losl Black and Gold Saiko watch.  $1500 lor system 232-6528 Tascam 4-track Portastudio Great lor bands, demos. $850 232·6528 '81 Ford Escort 2-Door, 4 speed, stereo cassette. $1995 or best offer call £1999, Pat  ATTENTION All HISTORY AND AMST MAJORS Volunteers needed to guide tours and give slide show presentations for South· hold Restoration in South Bend. Learn exciting fac1s about the citylll Must be  CLUB BRIDGET TONIGHT 25 CENTS -DRAFT BE A PART OF THE FUN CLUB BRIDGET  You were supposed to say "No", protest vehemently, and reluctantly give 1n despite your jealous reservations. You didn't. Thanks. All I'm trying lo do is be happy. Of course, being extremely suc­cessful is a prerequisite. Is dating you? ............................................  A Hairy Buffalo wa1 seen on the outeklrta of C8mpua heeding toward South Qulld. How is Bill Webb Dey celebrated In other countries? Chine: The Great Wall is painted lest1ve  - 
If  found  call  Rob  at  1:2506.  Reward  dependable and have own transporta­ WEDNESDAY  IRISH MUSICII JOHN KENNEDY AND  colors and the movie theatres let people  
Reward  for sate· ROSSIGNOL STS SKIS 180 em  tion. For more info contac1 Leslie Choitz.  SIP 25 CENT DRAFTS  FRIENDS ARE PERFORMING FRI. AND  in for free.  
WI  M40 BINDINGS.  EXCELLENT  Exec direc1or 234·3441 .  BY  THE  POOL,  JACUZZI,  TENNIS  SAT. EVENINGS FROM 8 TILL 12 AT  
FOUND·  CALCULATOR  BY  SOUTH  SHAPE. MAKE OFFER. x6013 or 272·  COURTS & GOLF COURSE  MR.  CHRISTIAN'S  DILEMA  ON  Only 2 Days  
DINING  HALL  TUESDAY  MORNING.  8813.  HOWEVER, THE FACILITIES WILL BE  PRAIRIE AVE. (NEAR BRUNO'S PIZZA)  
CALL KRIS AT 2790 TO CLAIM.  Catch The Wave: Coke  CLOSED I  ALSO AVAILABLE FOR PRIVATE PAR·  Bill Webb Dey  
Cruise lor 2 frm Ft Lauderdale w&iays  BRIDGET'S-A  COUNTRY  CLUB  OF  TIES, CALL 233 6298  
REWARD:LOST CHEMISTRY BOOK £  in Freeport ¢3days near Orlando-$160  PRESTIGE  February 12, 1988  
INSIDE COVER  Call 259·4317 after 5  

Sports-Briefs 
The Atlanta Falcons have refused an offer from another team to trade for its top pick in the upcoming NFL Draft, according to the Atlanta Con­stitution. Tim Brown's name has been mentioned as a possible top pick in the draft. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight for all members at 6:30p.m. in 204 O'Shaugnessy. Anyone planning on travelling to Tulane University this weekend with the club must attend. -The Ob­server 
ND-Fordam basketball can be heard tonight on WVFI. Sean Munster and Bob Fitzgerald will handle the play-by-play, with the pre-game begin­ning at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in forming a women's rugby team please call Lauren (3560), Sarah (4039) or Kathy (4067). No experience necessary. -The Ob­server 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The SMC swim team lost Friday night to Grand Valley in a close meet which was held over the telephone because of bad weather. The next meet is tonight at Valparaiso. -The Observer 
Varsity and Novice crew teams will have a mandatory meeting tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland to plan the spring break trip. Bring a $10 deposit for the trip. -The Observer 
The Air Force ROTC basketball team won the Flying Irish Classic held at Stepan Center. Soph­omore Ray Flannery took MVP honors for the second year in a row. -The Observer 
The St. Louis Cardinals have finally acquired pitcher Jose DeLeon from the Chicago White Sox for pitcher Rick Horton and outfielder Lance Johnson. In other baseball news the Oakland Athletics signed Don Baylor to a one-year contract and the Cleveland Indians have signed Ron Kittle and Dan Schatzeder to one-year contracts. 
Associated Press 
a e 10 The Observer 

Sports Wednesday 
Scoreboard Sports Calendar Basketball Top 20 1 
Results for Jan. 27 through Feb. 2 
Home games in CAPS 
AP Top Twenty 

Basketball The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Men Today Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points 
Duke 70, Notre Dame 61 Men's Basketball vs. FORDHAM 
based on 20-t9-t8-t7 etc. Notre Dame opponentsWomen Wrestling vs. MICHIGAN are italicized. Tennessee 91, Notre Dame 71 Notre Dame 78, Duke 66 t. Temple (23) t8-t t,204
Thursday t9-2
2. Purdue ( t6) t,19t Hockey Women's Basketball vs. DETROIT 3. Arizona (t5) 2t-2 t,162 4. Oklahoma (9) 20-2 t,t34
Notre Dame 5, Air Force 4 SMC Basketball at Purdue-Calumet 
5. Pittsburgh (2) t6-2 927Notre Dame 4, Air Force 3 

6. No. Carolina t6-3 905 U.S.S.R. -68 gold 
Friday 7. Nevada-Las Vegas 20-2 900Fencing 8. Brigham Young t7-t 859 Norway -54 gold 
Men Women's Tennis hosts ECK DOUBLES tie Duke 16-3 905 
U.S. -40 gold 
Notre Dame over Wayne State, 18-9 CLASSIC 10. Kentucky 16-3 749 
Notre Dame over Ohio State, 24-3 Wrestling vs. OHIO STATE 11. Syracuse t7-5 70t Sweden -32 gold 
Notre Dame over Northwestern, 20-7 t2. Michigan t8-4 605

Swimming vs. ILLINOIS-CHICAGO 
t3. Iowa t6-6 378 East Germany -30 gold*
Notre Dame over Chicago, 21-6 

Hockey vs. VILLANOVA t4. Kansas St. t4-4 323
Notre Dame over Michigan, 24-3 t5. t4-3 Finland -29 gold 
Indoor Track at Central Collegiate Bradley 283 
Notre Dame over Case Western Reserve, t4-4
t6. No. Carolina St. 269 21-6 
Championships Austria -25 gold
17. Vanderbilt 14-5 173 Notre Dame over Oakland 23-4 t8. Wyoming t7-4 t46 Germany -24 gold** Women Saturday 19. Indiana 13-6 134 t6-6
Wayne State over Notre Dame, 11-5 20. Villanova 94 Switzerland -18 gold 
Women's Basketball vs. DAYTON 
Notre Dame over Ohio State, 11-5 

Swimming vs. CLEVELAND STATE Canada -14 gold 
Notre Dame over Northwestern, 11-6 
Notre Dame over Case Western Reserve, Women's Tennis hosts ECK DOUBLES Others receiving votes: Georgetown 92, Florida 

CLASSIC 83, Loyola (Calif.) 82, Cal-Santa Barbara 75, Mis­
14-2 * East Germany from 1968
souri 42, Southern Methodist 38, Rhode Island 35,
Notre Dame over Oakland, 14-2 Fencing at Junior Olympics 

St. John's 29, Illinois 27, Georgia Tech 2t, Auburn **Germany 1908-1964; 
SMC Basketball vs. HOPE COLLEGE 
20, Iowa State 20, Arkansas t2, Ohio State t2, So. 

West Germany from 1968
Wrestling Mississippi t2, South Carolina t 0, Xavier (Ohio) t 0, SOURCE: Notre Dame 21, Nebraska 18 Texas-EI Paso 7, Virginia Tech 6, Arkansas-Little
Sunday Sports Features
Rock 5, Louisiana St. 4, Louisville 4, Stanford 3, Swimming Men's Basketball vs. UCLA Boise St. 2, New Mexico 2, Utah St. t, West Virginia Syndicate Research Men Men's Tennis vs. EASTERN MIC­
t, Wichita St. 1. 
Notre Dame 123, Bradley 80 HIGAN Notre Dame 98, St. Louis 15 

Notre Dame 67, Oral Roberts 44 Women's Top 20 -Men's lnterhall NHL Standings 
Ball State 126, Notre Dame 91 Tuesday A-League Standings WALES CONFERENCE
WOIR«< 
AP Top Twenty Big 10 Dfvlslon Adams Dfvlslon

Notre Dame 94, St. Louis 16 Men's Basketball at Rutgers The Top Twenty college women's basketball w Pet. w T GA
L GB L GF Pta.
Notre Dame 94, Oral Roberts 17 teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place 
Wrestling vs. OLIVET Stanford A2 6 0 t.OOO Boston 33 t9 5 2t7 t77 7t 
Ball State 140, Notre Dame 128 votes In parentheses, this season's records and total 2 2 Montreal 17 2t4 70
SMC Swimming at Olivet Alumni A2 4 .667 30 tO t82
points. Points based on 20-t9-t8-t7 etc. Notre Holy Cross A 4 .667 Buffalo t9t
2 2 25 22 9 211 59
Dame opponents are Italicized.

Tennis Fisher A 3 3 .500 3 Hartford 23 25 7 t70 tao 53 Men Off Campus 2 2 .500 3 Quebec 22 27 4 188 20t 48
1. Iowa (58) t8-0 t273 Pangborn A 2 3 .400 3.5 Patrick DfvlalonNotre Dame 9, Toledo 0 2. Louisiana Tech (5) t9-0 1211 Dillon At 1 4 .200 4.5 Philadelphia 28 20 6 186 t84 623. Auburn (1) 20-1 1160 Big Sky DfvlslonF4 N.Y. islanders 26 2t 6 207 t88 58

Soccer 4. Tennessee 19-2 1075 
w L Pet. GB Pittsburgh 24 24 9 2t8 224 57
lnterhall Hockey 
Stanford At 0 Washington 25 6 t72
Notre Dame 2, Wisconsin 1 5. Texas 20-2 t038 6 t.OOO 24 180 546. Rutgers 17-3 885
Notre Dame 5, Wheaton 1 Cavanaugh A 5 2 .7t4 t.5 New Jersey 24 27 5 192 2t6 53
7. Mississippi 17-3 849

Notre Dame 1, Loyola 0 Grace At 4 2 .667 2 N.Y. Rangers 22 26 7 211 20t 51
8. Virginia 18-2 809

Northwestern 2, Notre Dame 1 Keenan A 3 2 .600 2.5
INTERHALL HOCKEY STANDINGS 9. Ohio State t5-4 779 o.c. 3 3 .500 3 CAMPBELL CONFERENCEGold Division to. Stanford 20-t 728 Zahm A t 4 .200 4.5 Smythe Dvlalon
W L T 11 . Maryland t7-4 632 t 5 5 L GF Pta
St. Ed's A .t67 w T GAGrace 3 0 0 t2. Washington t6-2 6t8 Flanner At 0 5 .000 5.5 Calgary 33 t7 6 272 211 72
Women's lnterhall 2 t Georgia t6-5
Dillon t t3. 523 Edmonton 30 t8 7 244 t90 67Off Campus 2 t t t4. Long Beach St. t2-5 4t3 ACC Division Winnipeg 23 22 9 204 202 55Morrissey 3 2 0 t5. Montana t9-0 4t0 w L Pet. GB Los Angeles 20 33 5 216 257 45St. Ed'&Holy Cross 2 2 0 t6. Wake Forest t7-2 303
WOMEN'S IH BASKETBALL STANDINGS Morrissey 5 0 t.OOO Vancouver 18 3t 7 t92 2t3 43
Flanner 0 3 t t7. Stephen F. Austin t9-2 t92
'W L Pet. GB OC Thunder 5 t .833 .5 Norris Division
Keenan 0 3 t t8. Southern Cal t3-5 t89
Pasquerilla West 5 0 t.OOO Sarin A 5 t .833 .5 Detroit 27 t9 8 2t7 182 62
Billa Division t9. James Madison t7-3 75
Lyons 4 t .BOO t Alumni At 3 3 .500 2.5 St. Louis 25 24 5 t85 t83 55
W L T 20. New Mexico St. t7-2 65
Lewis 3 t .750 1.5 Grace A2 3 4 .429 3 Chicago 22 29 5 t97 228 49
Alumni 4 0 0

Breen-Phillips 3 2 .600 2 Carroll A 2 4 .333 3.5 Minnesota t6 32 9 t74 235 4t
Cavanaugh 2 t 0 Others receiving votes: Nebraska 48, New Orleans 
Badin 2 3 .400 3 Dillon A2 t 5 .t43 4.5 Toronto t5 32 9 20t 238 39
Pangborn 2 t 0 30, Houston 20, DePaul 19, LaSalle t8, Clemson
Pasquerilla East 2 3 .400 3 Flanner A2 0 6 .000 5.5
Sarin 2 t 0 t6, Nevada-Las Vegas t4, St. Joseph's t4, Western 
Farley t 3 .250 3.5 B-LEAGUE STANDINGS Tuesday's Results
Stanford 2 2 0 Kentucky tt, Duke 7, San Diego St. 4, Syracuse 4,
Howard t 3 .250 3.5 All Star Game In St. Louis
PAC-10 DivisionFisher 0 3 Middle Tennessee St. 2, Montana St. t, Notre Dame 

Walsh 0 .000 Wales Conference 6, Campbell Conference 5, OT
5 5 W L Pet. GB
Zahm 0 4 t, UCLA t, Vanderbilt t. 
Grace Bt 5 t .833 
oc 5 t .833 
Stanford B 1 3 t .750 t 
NBA Standings 

Flanner Bt 2 2 .500 2
Irish Fencing . The 69ers O.C. 4 3.5
~ t .200 Eastern Conference Zahm B t 4 .200 3.5 
Atlantic Division CarrollS t 5 .t67 4 
w L Pet. GB 

Major Independents Dlv. Boston 
32 t4 .696 1987·88 FENCING STAnSTICS 
W L Pet. GB Philadelphia 20 24 .4t9 11 Madison Ave. OC 6 0 1.000 Washington 18 25 .405 t2.5
_,_ 
Flanner B3 3 2 .600 2.5 New York 
t6 28 .364 t5 

Holy Cross B 2 2 .500 3 New Jersey tO 35 .222 2t.5Man's Individual Women'• lndlvklual 
Dillon 82 2 3 .400 3.5 
Central Division Grace B3 2 3 .400 3.5 Atlanta 
3t t5 .674 S1anford 82 1 3 .250 4 Detroit 
w L Pet. w L Pet 
26 t6 .619 3FOIL 167 31 .843 SABRE 30 Sullivan 48 3 .941 

Keenan B2 t 4 .200 4.5 Chicago .600
27 t9 4 Milwaukee 23 20 .535 6.5 

Kovacs 36 4 .900 Collins 5 Barreda 47 4 .922 
Leary 30 6 .833 Yu 5 Kadri 32 7 .821 
ECAC Division Cleveland 23 23 .500 8Clark 25 3 .893 ReiUy 1 Kralicek 30 9 .789 

Holeman 24 4 .857 NowQSieiSki 0 Laiser 30 12 .714 
w L Pet GB Indiana 22 22 .500 8 Sarin B 6 0 1.000
Gumbs 19 5 .792 Kirby 1 Sully 25 7 .781. 
Grace 82 4 2 .667 2 
Waatam Conference OC Whitesnakes 4 2 .667 2 
Galeziewski t3 2 .867 Bauger 3 McNeill 7 1 .87$ Mit' 
Midwest Division Kroener Rawlings 
Trayets 12 2 .857 Kerrigan 2 Solllnget 7 1 .875 
Keenan Bt 3 3 .500 3 
w L Pet. GB Amaro 
8 5 .6t5 Varga 7 2 
.778·"-·--' 
St. Ed's B 33 .500 3 Dallas 29 t5 .659
Connor 5 4 

Alumni 82 3 4 .429 3.5
EPEE 145 53 .7a2 Harding Hyne» 15 1 Denver 26 t7 .605 2.5 
Flanner B2 1 4 .200 4.5 Houston
OUdlnskl $2 6 .842 Pietrusiek 
26 t7 .605 2.5 
The Bricks OC 0 6 .000 6 Utah
Fay 27 7 .794 22 23 .489 7.5 
SEC Division San Antonio t8 23 .439
Grlffee lis 7 ,'786 9.5 Gugel ao 8 .714 w L Pet. GB Sacramento 18 23 .439 9.5 Margan 19 13 .594 Man'• Te.m !it Woman•snam 5 1.000 Paclftc Division
Dillon 81 0 Cavanaugh B t
Reardon 17 8 .sao w ..L Pet w L 5 .833 .5 LA Lakers 35 8 .814 Keough 4 3 .57t Meets 22 0 1.000 Meets t7 2 O.C. Goats 3 2 .600 2 Portland 26 t6 .619 8.5 Fabian [) 1 .000 Bouts 480 114 .aos Bouts 253 51 Alumni B 2 3 .400 3 Seattle 25 20 .556 11 Pangborn B t 3 .250 3.5 Phoenix 
13 29 .3t0 21.5 Fisher B t 4 .200 4 Golden State tO 
32 .238 24.5 

Morrissey B 0 4 .000 4.5 LA Clippers tO 32 .238 24.5 

-


l /2 dozen long-stem roses $16 1 dozen long-stem roses $32 AVOID THE RUSH, ORDER EARLY! Valentine deliveries will go out Saturday night. 
DON'T FORGET TO ORDER VALENTINE'S DAY FLOWERS! 
Hours: Monday-Saturday 12:30 -5:30 
Information Meeting 
VVednesday, February 10, 1988 
6:30 P.M. 216 O'Shaughnessy 
All are welcome 
University of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study
Program 



Wednesday, February 10, 1988 The Observer page~ 
-

Here is the list of high school seniors who have verbally committed to sign a national letter of intent 
to play football for Notre Dame:  
Name  Hometown  
Walter Boyd  Hillsborough, N.C.  
Derek Brown**  Merritt Is., Fla.  
Rod Culver*  Detroit, Mich.  
Marc DeManigold  Goose Point; Mich.  
Justin Hall  Plano, Texas  
Raghib Ismail  Wilkes Barre, Pa.  
Graylin Johnson  Port Arthur, Texas  
Mirko Jurkovic  Calumet City, Ill.  
Lindsay Knapp*  Deerfield, Ill.  
Bernard Mannelly  Atlanta, Ga.  
Devon McDonald  Patterson, N.J.  
Gene McGuire*  Panama City, Fla.  
George Poorman  Palantine, Ill.  
Troy Ridgely  Ambridge, Pa.  
Rusty Setzer*  Hammond, Ind.  
Michael Smalls  Rialto, Calif.  
Rod Smith*  Roseville, Minn.  
Tony Smith  Gary, Ind.  
Kenny Spears  Atlanta, Ga.  

** Parade High School player of the Year 
* Parade All-American 
Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  
RB  6-1  200  
TE  6-7  235  
RB  6-0  170  
DL  6-5  230  
OL  6-5  280  
RB  5-10  172  
DB  6-4  205  
L  6-5  235  
OL  6-6  235  
L  6-5  235  
LB  6-4  220  
OL  6-5  275  
QBDB 6-3  188  
DL  6-4  252  
DB  5-9  180  
ILB  6-3  220  
RB  6-0  185  
WR  6-3  170  
RB  6-2  215  

PW leads the pack in IH basketball 
By JEFF HEILERT Sports Writer 
Mter taking a week off in ob­servance of the Super Bowl, women's Interhall basketball picked up right where it left off -with Pasquerilla West keeping a comfortable lead over a large group of playoff contenders. 
Last Sunday's action paired the league's best with the rest. The best came out ahead; as the top four teams all were vic­torious, but the rest played tough, and came close to pul­ling off a couple upsets. 
League leader PW moved to 5-0 with a narrow victory over Badin. The game was tight the whole way through. Badin had a chance to tie at the buzzer, but a three-point attempt fell short. 
Kathy Kronenberger came off the bench to lead the PW inside attack, grabbing 10 rebounds and recording several steals. Floor leader Pandora Fecko added 13 points. PW holds a one game lead over Lyons, while Badin drops to 2-3 on the year. 
Breen-Phillips moved to 3-2 on the season by defeating Far­
ley 27-17. Cynthia Guckien 
tossed in 12 points and Carol 
Cavaliere added 10. 
With the win, BP moves into 
fourth place and holds the final 
playoff spot. Farley drops to 1­
3. 

Lewis bounced back from its 
loss to PW by edging Howard 
28-26. 
"We were down by six at half," said Lewis captain Theresa Bullivac, "but we came back to win. We played really tight defense and showed great intensity. The guards were are main scoring force, but our big people were key be­cause they were a lot taller. Sue Lippi and Cindy Alverdo had great games." 
Lewis improves to 3-1 and grabs third place while Howard slips to 1-3. 
Sunday's final game saw Lyons move to 4-1 by defeating Walsh. Walsh remains the only winless team at 0-5. 
Women's lnterhall action continues on Thursday nigh~ with a battle for second place between Lyons and Lewis. The tip-off is set for 6 p.m. 
Brown, who runs a 4.6 40, also year's recruits will do nothing Hendersonville, N.C., has 12 touchdowns. has played defensive end, to lessen its reputation. The decided on North Carolina Also headed for UCLA are
Recruits 
tackle and nose guard. Nittany Lions have commit­after Mack Brown took over as Bret Johnson of El Toro, Calif., 
continued from page 16 
McGuire is Florida's best of­ments from linebackers Eric Tar Heels' coach 
one of the nation's top two quar­But Notre Dame is like a jet fensive lineman and Johnson is Renkey of Pittsburgh and Southern Cal has been called terback prospects, and offen­airplane with a small hole in the best all-around athlete in Ivory Geathers of John's Is­the running back school on the sive lineman Brian Jacobs of 
its wing -i.e., the Irish have not Texas. He played mostly at land, S.C. West Coast, but right now that Newhall, Calif. Johnson passed received a commitment from a quarterback but intercepted Renkey's North Hills High tag belongs to UCLA. the for more than 2,000 yards and top high school quarterback. seven passes as a part-time School was rated No. 1 in the Bruins have a commitment 24 touchdowns despite missing However, they played two free safety and that's where he country by USA Today, and Co­from Kevin Williams of Spring, four games with a knee injury. young quarterbacks last year is projected to play in college. ach Jack McCurry said Texas, the "franchise" player Jacobs allowed only one sack after Terry Andrysiak was in­Clemson's top recruits thus Renkey, "turned out to be the in the Lone Star State, the type in 627 plays.jured. far are kicker Chris Gardocki best player we've ever had." of back who can turn a pro­The other quarterback prize, 
Not one of our top 162 of Stone Mountain, Ga.; 6-8, Penn State al~o has lined up gram into a national champi­6-4 Todd Marinovich of Mission prospects has committed to na­295-pound offensive tackle Les top-notch defensive linemen onship contender. Viejo, Calif., reportedly has tional champion Miami but the Hall of Columbia, S.C., Super­John Gerak of Youngstown, Despite missing almost three committed to Southern Cal. 
state of Florida produces so Prep's Mid-Atlantic Offensive Ohio, and Anthony Matesic of games with an injury, the 193-Marinovich threw for 9,194many outstanding players that Player of the Year; defensive Oradell, N.J. pound Williams rushed for career yards and 74 touch­the Hurricanes will get their end AI Richard of Clinton, S.C., Linebacker Eric Gash of 1,339 yards -6.2 per carry -and downs. share of good ones. our Mid-Atlantic Defensive 
Notre Dame's top recruits Player of the Year, and 275-Correa,
are 6-foot-7, 235-pound tight end pound defensive lineman "We've certainly been com­
Fordham
Derek Brown of Merritt Island, Chester McGlockton of petitive against some very Fla., considered the South's Whiteville, N.C. good basketball teams over the team agree
continued from page 16
best prospect; 265-pound offen­Gardocki connected on 13 of last wweek in Kentucky,rebounding at 6.3 per night. He 
sive lineman Gene McGuire of 23 field goal attempts, five of Maryland Duke," Phelps says. on Sabbath
Panama City, Fla.; defensive them from more than 50 yards is averaging 9.3 points a game. "Yet, we still haven't done all back Graylin Johnson of Port out and including a 59-yarder. The Rams have been un­the little things you must do for Associated Presssettled in the backcourt, with
Arthur, Texas; 290-pound of­He also put 52 of 59 kickoffs into 40 minutes to win against those 
fensive lineman Justin Hall of the end zone and punted for a Plano, Texas; and Lindsay 45.8-yard average. Knapp of Deerfield, Ill., yet an­Penn State has been known other offensive lineman. as Linebacker U. and this 
Candy is da~y, Roses are neSt, 
But Observer ads 
Are really sweet. 
Let your sweetheart see your love expressed through 0/:JHrver Valentine classifieds or display ads. 

Classitleds will be accepted from 1Oam to 3pm every weekday. The Observer is located in room 314 LaFortune or call239-7471 for further information. 
no guard starting more than 12 kind of teams. I don't think our ARLINGTON, Texas -The ­games. Greg Pedro (9.3.points) 
Texas Rangers have agreed to 
and Mark Taylor (4.4 points, 78 players are discouraged. let pitcher Edwin Correa rest assists) are the likely starting think they know what we have 
on his Sabbath, but the team 
combination. to do to be successful this last said he may be pressed into 
Notre Dame's three-game month of the regular season. service in a pinch.losing streak is its longest since "I respect his position," said dropping four straight in 1984 "We've got nine games left, Rangers Manager Bobby(to Rutgers, DePaul, Pitt and and we've got an opportunity Valentine. "He respects our po­BYU). The loss to Duke to win 20 games. We're not sition. We're going to do every­marked the first time this going to take anything for thing we can to make it work." 
season that the Irish have not granted, whether it involves The Rangers agreed they will hit a three-point shot, the nine our team or the opposition. try to keep the pitcher off duty that Duke hit was the most they We've simply got to play from sundown Friday to sun­have given up. Phelps knows smart, do the things we're ca­down Saturday, and Correa, a that the time has come for his pable of doing and get it going Seventh-day Adventist, said he 
squad to put it all together. again." 
o.~· ~ 
~e~ . ~\'(\Q; 

~~ 8TOP MAKING &EN~E 
'(>.(\0. 

TRUE &TOQIE& 
Thursday Night, 9:00 at THEODORE& 
would help out when necessary. 
"Saturday is not a major problem, it's just Friday night," Valentine said. 
"Chances are, there is going to come a Friday night when we're not able to adjust to it. He understands his value to the team and that there might have to be some sacrifices made. We'll sacrifice as much as we can. But we're not going to sacrifice the other 23 guys on the team," Valentine said. 
Correa said he will let Valen­tine figure out how to plan around Friday nights and Sat­urday afternoons. All but one of the Rangers' 26 Friday games are at night. The Rang­ers play four times on Saturday afternoon. 

------------------~----­
Wednesday, February 10, 1988
Irish wrestlers face No. 13 Mich. 
Logsdon improves after hiatus 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
It's hard not to feel for the Notre Dame wrestling team. 
Just four days ago, the Irish came up with one of the biggest wins in their program, going to Nebraska and beating the 19th­ranked Cornhuskers 21-18. 
And what's their award? A date with No. 13 Michigan. The Irish tangle with the Wol­verines at 7 p.m. at the Joyce ACC Pit. "They're by far the most difficult team on our schedule," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "They could win the Big 10. 
"We don't match up with them very well. We've got a good 134-pounder in Jerry Durso, and they've got the second-ranked one in the country in John Fisher. At 158, we've got what we consider one of the top freshmen in the country in Mark Gerardi, and they've got the third-ranked one in the country in Joe Pan­toleo." 
Michigan (7-3) also has expe­rience. The Wolverine lineup is dotted wiht five seniors and three juniors. While McCann does not consider a win for Notre Dame (5-2) impossible, he knows it will take a huge effort from his wrestlers. 
"Michigan's a lot better than Nebraska on paper, but you never know," said McCann. "We have to wrestle probably the best we have all year to stay in the meet." 
Mter a disappointing loss to Clarion on Jan. 22, the Irish have rebounded with an easy win in the National Catholic Tournament and the upset over Nebraska. 
Part of Notre Dame's recent success can be attributed to the improvement of 190-pound sophomore George Logsdon. After a slow start, Logsdon won the 190-pound division of the National Catholics, and his win last weekend clinched Notre Dame's victory over Nebras­ka. 
Logsdon, a 23-year-old soph­omore from Niles, Mich., is new to the Notre Dame pro­gram -sort of. After wrestling for the Irish during the 1983-84 season, then went into the Army. 
Stationed in Hawaii for three years, he returned to Notre Dame this year and liked the changes McCann had brought to the program. 
"I remember coming in and being disgruntled with it,'' said Logsdon. "I couldn't under­stand. This was college wres­tling, but it wasn't. The college wrestling that you expect com­ing out of high school is here now. 
"There's no comparison. It's a whole different class of wrestlers. The attitude differ­ence is primarily due to the coaching, with Fran McCann and Rick Stewart. You have two great coaches, quality recruiting and you can't help but improve." 
But at first, Logsdon had a little trouble returning to the collegiate mats. McCann thinks the academic load may have taken a toll on Logsdon's wrestling performance. 
"The first semester was the first time he was in school in three years, and he had to get academically squared away and reacclimated to school," said the third-year Irish coach. "This semester, his grades came out well, and he can con­cetrate more on wrestling. He comes in the morning and works out, comes to practice early and puts in the extra time." 

Perhaps the proof that Logsdon had improved came in last weekend's victory over N e­braska's Sonny Marley. 
"The kid he was wrestling was pretty good," said McCann. "It's a match they (Nebraska) expected to win. It was a fairly close match going into the third period, but we were in better shape. 
"His technique is so much better. He's not doing dumb things, he's adjusting to the techniques we're teaching and is picking up on it. Before, he was beating himself. Now he's in better shape, and that gives him an advantage. A lot of times when you're out of shape After upsetting 1fth-ranked Nebraska last you have doubts about your­weekend, the Irish wrestling team faces 13th­self." ranked Michigan tonight at Ann Arbor. Steve 


ComP-uter Science & MIS Students 
SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
U.
herush of adrenaline. If you're a highly-motivated The surge of excite­person, an independent worker, ment. The flash of and an innovative thinker, you inspiration. Familiar have the right chemistry for feelings to talented IS profession-ACCENT. als at The Travelers. And to the Now make the right move. promising graduates who'll join To The Travelers' ACCENT pro­us this year. gram. Where you'll find varied You've discovered these and valuable learning experiences. feelings in your academic work. A supportive human environment Recognized them in the elegance and a sophisticated technical one. of advanced technology. And now And where you'll find plenty of you can share in them at The opportunities to help move you Travelers, where the support is ahead. stronger, the environment more You'll also receive a com­sophisticated and the applications petitive salary, complete benefits 
more challenging. 
As a distinguished Computer Science or MIS graduate, you now have a difficult decision to make about your future. That's why we created ACCENT. Afast-paced, competitive program. Offering tech­nical and management training through a diverse range of assignments leading to key professional positions. 
All in one of the most advanced IS environ­ments in the financial services industry-including the largest IMS shop, 14 IBM mainframes and a 37,000 terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of IS technology doesn't stop there. We've recently installed over 20,000 IBM PCs, integrated the latest 4th generation languages, and we're develop­ing our future leaders with ACCENT. 
If you have a degree in computer science, MIS or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­gramming experience, you have the right credentials for ACCENT. 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. 
and even an IBM PC AT to take home with you. Plus generous relocation assistance to our Hartford, Connecticut home office. 
So, if you're a bright and talented computer­oriented major, join The Travelers. Where the accent is on you and the inspiration shared by all. 
Find out more about signing up for The Travelers' interview schedule. Recruiters will be on campus Monday, February 22nd. Or, send your resume to: Gail L'Heureux, The Travelers Companies, 30-CR, CN87, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
TheTravelersf 
You're better off under the Umbrella~" 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
The Observer I Trey Raymond 

Megargee previews the meet and features the return of Irish wrestler George Logsdon. 
The Observer page 13 
Lemieux's tricks carry Wales to 6-5 win over Campbells 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Mario Lemieux capped a record-breaking night with his third goal and sixth point of the game at 1:08 of overtime as the Wales Con­ference beat the Campbell Con­ference 6-5 Tuesday in the 39th NHL All-Star Game. 
Lemieux, who set up the Wales Conference's first three goals and scored the fourth, had given his team a 5-4 lead at 8:07 of the third period. But Luc Robitaille tied the score by beating goaltender Patrick Roy for his second goal of the game with 3:32 to go in regula­tion, sending the game into overtime. 
But Lemieux, the NHL's leading scorer, wasted little time in getting the game­winner. He picked up a feed from Mats Naslund, who finished with a record-setting five assists, shook off a check 
Athletes like race conditions 

Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta -World records will fall during the Win­ter Olympics, U.S. speed skaters predict. And Americans Bonnie Blair and
THURSDAY: 9:00-1:00 
Dan Jansen could be among those who break them. 
Talking Heads Night 

With arctic-like cold gripping the Olympic town of Calgary,

True Stories & 
athletes continued to arrive for the Games, which start Satur­
Stop Making Sense 

day. The U.S. slalom, cross­country and biathlon teams were among those getting into
FRIDAY: 9:30-2:00 
town. 
Although many American athletes still have not arrived 
DJ's Bryan Rao and 
Rick Reuter will 

in Calgary, the U.S. flag was 
keep you dancing SATURDAY: 9:30-2:00 Tom Tis a and Dan Janick 
in front and put a backhander through the legs of goaltender Mike Vernon. 
Lemieux, of the Pittsburgh Penguins, was named · the game's Most Valuable Player for the second time, having captured the award in 1985. 
The victory was the fourth in a row and lOth in 12 games for the Wales Conference since the current format was adopted in 1975. 
Lemieux set up a first-period goal by Tomas Sandstrom and assisted on second-period goals by Mike Gartner and Peter Stastny before scoring his first goal at 11:34 of the second per­iod to give the Wales Confer­ence a 4-2 lead. 
After Denis Savard's goal at 
5: 19 evened the score at 4-4, Lemieux made it 5-4 with 11:53 to play in regulation by beating Vernon with a high shot after taking a pass from Naslund. 
It also broke the All-Star record of four points in a game, held by six players. 
The game, before a standing­room-only crowd of 17,878, was played under the cloud of the death of former St. Louis Blues defense man Barclay Plager, who died of a brain tumor last Saturday. Plager, who was scheduled to be an honorary co­captain of the Campbell Con­ference team, was honored in pre-game ceremonies. 
Dale Hawerchuk's goal gave the Campbell Conference a 1-0 lead at 3:25 of the first period. 
The Winnipeg center scored on a wraparound shot, beating goaltender Ron Hextall on his glove side after fighting off defensemen Ray Bourque and Paul Coffey for the puck behind the net. 
The Wales Conference tied it 2-2 at 4: 28 of the second period on a play that was almost identical to their first goal. 
officially flown over the Olym­pic Village Tuesday in a wel­coming ceremony. 
"This is the fastest track in the world," said Blair, a former world record-holder at 500 meters and considered a top medal prospect at the sprint distances. "I think pretty much every world record will be bro­ken once the races begin." 
Not only is the ice in excellent shape at the University of Cal­gary oval, but because it is in­doors, the skaters will not have to contend with wind. This is the first time speed skating will be held indoors at an Olympics. 
"If everybody skates real good, I think they can all be 
• 
Group Charters & Tours ·Card Tables 

• 
Restrooms • Radios 


play your favorites. 

• Your DESIGNATED Driver ·Tape Players 
12:00-6:00 

CARDINAL 
$2.00 all you can eat 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
HOT DOGS AND CHILI DOGS 
287·8677 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617
What a deal!!!
·············· ··············· 
*······································~ 
a
*
*
*
*
* 
*
*
*
* 
*
* 
!
* 
: 
:
*
* 
ANY 7" SUB ONLV $1.99 ~ 
~ 

Join us for our "WEDNESDAY FRENZY" You can receive any of our delicious 7" subs for the special reduced price of only $1.99 Minimum 3 for delivery. 
Now hiring sub-makers and delivery drivers 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
t ~ 
~ 
t ~ 
: 
~ 

Offer valid only on !his Wednesday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. ~ 
**************************************** 
broken," said Jansen, who won three of four races and the overall title at the World Sprint Speed Skating Championships last weekend at West Allis, Wis. 
Blair won one 500-meter race head-to-head with Christa Rothenburger of East Ger­many at West Allis, but Rothenburger won the overall title. 
Olympic officials from North Korea also were in town, and they said they would not let their love of the Olympics prevent them from using the Games as a tool to help reunite the two Koreas. 
In an exclusive interview with The Associated Press, Chang Ung, secretary general of the North Korea Olympic Committee, said: "We love the Olympics. But first, we have to consider our nation's fate ... It is a sign of the unity of Korea." 
North Korea is boycotting the Summer Games because of the refusal of South Korea and the IOC to allow Pyongyang to be a co-host with Seoul. 
The International Olympic Committee, meanwhile, voted during the first day of its three­day session to delete a rule from its charter that it consid­ered sexist. IOC members struck from its charter Rule 28. which made participation by women athletes conditional on approval by the IOC or inter­national sports federations. 
IOC spokesperson Michele Verdier said the rule was voted out "because it was felt to be discriminatory to women and no longer applies to the present world." 
About half of the 1,600 ath­letes registered for the Games have arrived, organizers said. They include one American competitor who has set off a small controversy -football player-turned-bobsledder, Willie Gault. 
Gault, a wide receiver for the Chicago Bears, was named to the alternate U.S. sled, bum­ping Don Lavigne, who 
-

postponed his senior year at Harvard to try out for the team. Now, Lavigne says he was beaten out by the name, not the man. 
-----~----~-~-­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 10, 1988 
-
Irish baseball to shoot for 'that winning feeling' 


By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
The first seventh-inning stretch is over two weeks away for the Notre Dame baseball team, but first-year Irish coach Pat Murphy is ready to start singing. 
And the song he's talking about isn't "Take Me Out To The Ballgame." 
"One of our goals is to bring back that winning feeling," said Murphy about an Irish squad that has suffered back­to-hack losing seasons. "You know that song 'You've Lost That Loving Feeling?' We're trying to bring back that win­ning feeling." 
While neither of the Righ­teous Brothers actually has been seen at the team's prac­tices in the Loftus All-Sports Complex, another person well­known for something besides baseball has. Irish quarter­back Terry Andrysiak cur­rently is working out with the team at centerfield. 
"He's doing a nice job," said 
Murphy. "He realizes he's be­
hind a little, but he's a great 
athlete. He's competitive, and 
he'll make something happen 
for himself -I bet on it." 
Football coach Lou Holtz in­
formed Murphy that any foot­
ball players who can make a 
contribution to the baseball 
team could play for Murphy's 
squad this spring. 
"He's been 100 percent 
cooperative," said Murphy. 
"He's told me that anyone who 
can help our program, he's 
willing to sit and be open ears 
to it." 
Andrysiak could find himself 

Top ranking adds pressure on Temple 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Temple Coach John Chaney says area rival Villanova is a tough op­ponent under any circum­stance. Now, there is an added reason. 
When they play Wednesday night, Temple will be the na­tion's No. 1 college basketball team for the first time in its

-history. The 16-6 Villanova Wildcats are ranked 20th. Chaney, whose team is 18-1, expects a "very, very tough" contest. His philosophy is to forget the pressure and ignore the fanfare generated by the polls. "We have been in and out of a presure tank all year long," Chaney said after the 5:30a.m. to 8 a.m. practice session that concentrated on shooting and defense. "We have been criticized over the years about teams we beat and teams we didn't, and we just won't dis­cuss it. "We have the right attitude. We practice hard and we play our game. Villanova will be a very, very tough basketball game. They are always tough. They have some great players and both teams always give 100 percent. "It is very rarely a one-sided contest. We played them twice 
r--.;;;;:;GHT'R'ETR'E'Ar--1~ 
! for Women
I 6:30·11 p.m. Feb. 19th, Friday I
IWhere? 1104 N. Notre Dame Ave. 1
1 (four blocks so. of the circle) l
I CALL: Sister Arlene, 288-2665 
~~-..-...-....-...-.c...-..---... 

last year and one game went into overtime. I don't expect anything different this time." 
Villanova coach Rollie Mas­simino, whose team was na­tional NCAA champion in 1985, agreed with Chaney. 
"I think it will be close. We are not going to Temple to shoot and play marbles," Mas­simino said. 
Massimino said he is happy for the exposure the contest will provide. 
"I think Temple is outstand­ing and we're happy to have the opportunity to meet them at this time. We're playing the in a starting role because several positions are open. Murphy named only four players who pretty much had starting spots wrapped up. · 
"It's pretty early to tell," said Murphy. "Dan Peltier is a very good college baseball player and a great representa­tive of this University. (Pat) Pesavento will start at shortstop, Pat O'Brien has done an excellent job in the out­field and will probably play one outfield position. Our captain, Steve Skupien, looks to win the third-base job." 
Murphy also noted improve­ment in the pitching staff since the fall, particularly with the developments of Erik Madsen, Brian Piotrowicz-and Derk Madden. 
Piotrowicz was named the team's outstanding pitcher last season, but Madsen and Mad­den saw very little action under former coach Larry Gallo. 
"Pitching doesn't come over­night, it takes a lot of repetition and hard work," said Murphy. "They still have to believe in themselves and in our way of doing things. We're on the right trail." 
The pitching and hitting also has been helped by appear­ances by Chicago Cubs pitcher Jamie Moyer, who offered tips and even pitched batting prac­tice to the team. 
Along with a new coach comes a new conference and a new home field for the Irish. Notre Dame is re-entering the Midwest Collegiate Conference after leaving it before the 1987 season. The conference in­cludes Xavier, Detroit, Dayton, Saint Louis. Loyola, 
No.1 team and we're not even know, but we never discuss it. close but we will compete," The players are kept away Massimino said. from the media. Sure they are 
Chaney was asked if his human and they have pre­players had any reaction to the ssures, but it's my job to handle No. 1 ranking. the questions." 
"I don't go around asking Although Chaney claims he them about their feelings, and doesn't believe his team is bet­we don't talk about the polls, ter than anybody else in the top ever," Chaney said. "We just 35, he acknowledges a lot of don't let the rankings influence pride by becoming the first us at all. Temple team ever to be ranked 
"Being first when the season No.1. 
Evansville, Butler and Notre Dame. The Irish will be in a division with Xavier, Detroit and Dayton. Last year Notre Dame was 2-6 agianst MCC op­ponents. 
"It's a very good conference, all those teams play good ball," said Murphy. "In our division, Xavier has a fine program, Detroit's got a great tradition and Dayton's up annd com­ing." 
The winner of the MCC's postseason tournament receives an automatic bid to a six-team NCAA Regional. Win­ners of the Regionals earn a trip to Omaha for the College World Series. But the Irish aren't about to start looking ahead to that with two losing seasons behind them. 
Or with the schedule ahead of them, for that matter. The Irish start a 58-game regular season at Duke on Feb. 25, then go to Wake Forest for a two­game weekend series with an­other Atlantic Coast Confer­ence team. At Wake Forest, the Irish players will be reunited with their former coach, as Gallo works as an assistant for the Demon Deacons. 
Then come road games with Indiana State and Indiana, fol­lowed by a trip to Texas over spring break. The Irish finally play their first home game on March 22 after 17 straight games on the road. By that time, Murphy may be singing the blues. 
"It's the toughest schedule Notre Dame's ever played," said Murphy. "With our first games on the road, we'll find out what we're made of. 
"We have to believe in our­
selves," continued Murphy. 
"That's my formula 
preparation, belief in yourself 
and aggression equals win­
ning." 
When the Irish finally do return home, it will be home to South Bend, not home to Notre Dame. All of the Irish home games in March will be played at South Bend's new Stanley Covaleski Regional Stadium. Notre Dame's first game at Jake Kline Field is not until an April5 meeting with Northeast­ern Illinois. The Irish will play almost half of their home schedule at Covaleski Stadium. 
"Of course, the players 


i !CLUB i 
~ F[~~~ ! 
Your education will not end with graduation. As a grad·· uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orient~ion 
! -rMEBOTTOM LINE 1 where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center 
I DOLLAR lMPO~TS I 
can provide. 

Spring gra1uates apply now for positions available 
I 'SECTS' ON.,."'! 6EAC" $1,25 I 
in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attractive benefit 
package. 

I~~ I 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo 
Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose 
growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
I 75~ DRAfT I 
Rochester Methodist Hospital, Personnel Services, 
I MADRAS 75~ I
Nursing Recruitment Section. 201 West Center Street. 
Rochester, MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
1-TJtJ.<J.M of!_~ -•
Rochester Methodist HosR_it_a_l_ 
• oPEN ~ooN-2pmA MAYO I'OUNDATION HOSPITAL 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
L-----------------1 
is over is really what counts. 

The only thing that being No. 1 ....-------------------------...1 
does at this time is put more I LU ~~ ~~~ ::~~~~~~:~:;:~~~~~:~:~~::~~~~~:~:~~:~;;;:~~;;;r:;:;:: I 
pressure on me. 


15 
-

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Nor. king 5 Watering

12:15 p.m. SMC Center for Spirituality's Signals of Grace Lecture presents 
places

Rev. William McManus on Giving. Stapleton Lounge. 
9 Trumpet shell 

4:20 p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Large Spin Effects in Hard Proton-Proton 
14 Major-­Scattering," by Professor Alan Kirsch, University of Michigan. 118 Nieuwland 
15 Writer Ambler 16 "Butterfield 8"

Science Hall. 
author

4:30 p.m. Air Force ROTC Lecture, Major Peter Geurtz, Air Force, on U.S. 
17 Son of Isaac

transportation. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
18 lt. Island 
19 Collier 20 Gambler's 

6:45 p.m. SMC Sexuality Education Council Lecture, "Sexuality: Does the 
Church Have All the Answers?" by Doris Donnely. Stapleton Lounge. 
game

7 p.m. Wrestling vs. Michigan. Joyce ACC auxiliary gym. 
23 Aromatic

7:30p.m. Basketball vs. Fordham. JACC. 
spice 
24 Dernler ­25 Affirmative 

7:30p.m. Faculty Conversations on Connections: An Historical View of the 
De\ielopment of Science and Technology. 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, free. 
26 Finally 29 Principal 31 Salary hike 32 Quaker's 
pronoun

Dinner Menus 
33 Peruvian 37 Biting Insect 38 Emmy or Oble 

39 Meat 40 Giant of fable © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 41 Famed loch 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
All Rights Reserved 

42 Norman

Roast turkey breast Veal Parmesan 
VIncent -8 Hot summer
French bread pizza 
43 Eur. river days Eggrolls 
45 Frightens 9 Marxist for 46 Commercials short
Garden croissant 
49 Baseball's Mel 10 Buckeye State 50 Getz or Laurel 11 Nursemaid 
M A T 
H 
1 
0 
1 


51 Short-lived 
sensation 56 Auction word 57 Gemstone 58 Run 60 Singer Fisher 61 Fasten 62 Famed lioness 63 Eng. city 64 Sea birds 65 A tide 
DOWN 1 Lyric poem 2 Misplaced 3 Oriental 
maidservant 4 Sailing vessel 5 Cull 6 Cost 7 Verdi opera 


12 Gr. Island 
13 Rabbits . 
21 Luxury 
22 Lost moisture 
26 Jason's ship 
27 Sharp taste 
28 False witness 
29 Fox hunt 
30 Variety store 
32 Card game 
34 Approach 
35 Tranquil 
36 Pub orders 
38 Ms Ekberg 
42 Program 
44 Gil of baseball 
45 Coral Islands 
46 Play backer 50 Rustle lover 54 A Gardner 
47 Electronic 52 Actress 55 Singer device Markey Ponselle 
48 Sarcastic 53 Mast 59 Faucet 
Comics ·~ 
Bloom Cou Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Bill Watterson 



1\.115 'tllll \3E GRE/>.T. I'Ll ~~\"IE i\1£ 1'\t.\G\\OOR\\00\) 
AW\-1\Lt. f>Nt> 1\.\t.l'{ ~00 CJ>.t-t TRAt{SMGGil.\N I'll£ PACK TO A. B:l'i 'ti\.\EN 11-\t. NP-.1\0W..L 
G\Jr..QI) (()MES . 
I 



SOB presents: 

Tonight and Thursday 8:00 & 1 0:00 p.m. Cushing Auditorium $2.00 
•A spectacle of stomach-churning horrorl• -TIME MAGAZINE 
r---~~~-~ 
-
t 
I 
I Sports
Wednesday, February 10, 1988 page 16 


River's injury may disarm Irish against Fordham 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Director John Heisler. If butt heads, it's almost old home game, is the brother of former North Carolina into overtime at Sports Editor Rivers, who is averaging 22.9 week. Phelps coached Irish standout Bill Paterno. North Carolina." points per game and has 89 as­Fordham to a 26-3 record (a The elder Paterno was an Irish 
When Notre Dame takes to sists this season, is unable to school best) and a third-place cocaptain for two seasons from The Rams currently stand at the court tonight against start, freshman Tim Singleton finish in the NCAA East 1975-1977 and stands 22nd on the 12-10 (5-4 in the Metro Atlantic Fordham (7:30, tickets are would be the likely replace­Regional (the school's last ap­Irish scoring list with 1,134 Athletic Conference) under available), it will be looking to ment. pearance in the tourney) in the points. first-year head coach Nick end a three-game losing streak. This game will also mark the 1970-71 season. The following Macarchuk, who spent the 10 But the Irish will not have their return of junior forward Mark season, he assumed his current "Fordham is always a spe­previous years at Canisius. The main weapon at full strength. Stevenson. Irish head coach position. cial game for us," Phelps says Rams are lead by 6-5 forward 
Senior guard David Rivers Digger Phelps suspended the 6-One of Phelps assistants at of the contest. "They always Tom Parrotta, who averages injured an ankle in Sunday's 70-6 swingman Jan. 26 for two Fordham and at Notre Dame get up to play to the old coach. 14.6 points and 6.1 rebounds per 61 loss at Duke and has been weeks, and that period has was Frank McClaughlin. It's a special game for Joe contest. Paterno, who on crutches. He was not sup­ended. Stevenson, averaging Today, McClaughlin is Paterno knowing that his bro­averages 5.1 rebounds, is the possed to practice Tuesday 12.4 points in 14 games, may Fordham's athletic director. ther was a part of our success other forward. Dan O'Sullivan, night and his status the game not start against the Rams, but The connection continues with here. This year there is no dom­a 6-10 senior, plays the pivot for against Fordham is question­he is expected to get playing the Rams' second-leading inate team in college basket­the Rams and leads them in able, according to Notre Dame time. scorer, Joe Paterno. Paterno, ball. You have to be careful, Associate Sports Information When the Irish and Rams who averages 14.5 ooints a knowing that Fordham took see FORDHAM, page 11 

~«Y" -­
~':K:'· 
tiPS 1 In nr•r; '''*' 



The Observer I David Fisher 

The Irish men's swim team rebounded from last Tuesday night 128-80. Greg Guffey details the weekend's loss to Ball State to defeat Bradley meet below. 
Swimmers rebound with win 
By GREG GUFFEY dominated the Braves in nearly swims the 100 and 200 free, but 
Sports Writer every aspect of the meet, win­he swam the 50 and 500 free 
ning 12 of a possible 13 first tonight. Jim Byrne usually 
"We expect the Irish to places. Welsh was quick to swims the 200 individual med­
bounce back with resilience" -note, though, that the Bradley ley and the 200 back, and he 
men's swimming coach Tim team is in the midst of a subpar swam the butterfly and the 
Welsh after the Irish had their season. freestyle." 
seven-meet win streak stopped "It's important for us to rec­Dave Thoman and Adam 
by Ball State Saturday. ognize that this is not a typical Hirschfield paced the Irish 
Bradley team," Welsh said. romp with two first places. 
Welsh may drop his job as "They're going through a Thoman won the 50 and 100 
swimming coach and become transition year." freestyle events, while 
a prophet after Tuesday's meet In a way, though, the team Hirschfield took the one-and 
with Bradley. The Irish that Welsh fielded was not typi­three-meter diving events. 
rebounded from that loss to the cal either. He switched the Thoman also was part of the 
Cardinals with a 128-80 thrash­lineup after the loss to the Car­winning 400 free relay team 
ing of the Braves at Rolf's dinals, experimenting with the along with Petrillo, Eric Bob­
Aquatics Center. same swimmers in different dan and Tom Blank. 
events. The results left Welsh Other winners for the Irish 
"The Irish bounced back pleased. were Dave Ledrick in the 1000 
with resilience," Welsh said "The plan behind the meet free, Bill J ackoboice in the 200 
after the victory. "This is good was to change the personnel free, Paul Godfrey in the 200 
for morale in a lot of ways. It's without changing the speeds," IM, Byrne in the 200 butterfly, 
always good to get a win right Welsh said. "Everybody swam Bohdan in the 200 backstroke, after you lose. It's a fresh win a fresh, new event without Brian Rini in the 500 free and in every respect." changing the speeds. For ex­Brett Hunt in the 200 
The Irish swimmers ample, Chris Petrillo usuall~ breaststroke. 
ND recruits get rave previews 
EDITOR'S NOTE -Allen By ALLEN WALLACE It's an excellent year for high 
Wallace is editor and co-Associated Press school talent and 10 of Super­
publisher of SuperPrep, one of Prep's top 162 players have 
the nation's foremost recruit­It has been 11 years since given verbal commitments to 
ing magazines headquartered Notre Dame won its last college Notre Dame, promises that 
in Costa Mesa, Calif. In this football championship. On they are ready to sign. The sig­
report, written exclusively for Wednesday, the· first day that ning period runs until April 1. 
the Associated Press, he looks high school players can sign Clemson, Penn State and 
at where the top high school letters of intent, the Irish are UCLA also are set to sign out­
football players can be ex­expected to corral a class that standing groups of recruits. 
pected to sign letters of intent could help bring a champion­
on Wednesday. ship to South Bend, Ind. see RECRUITS, page 11 
T earn, fans face uphill battle 
Parity is everywhere is college basketball. 
In the west, teams like Loyola-Marymount and Cal-Santa Barbara are pounding on the door to the AP Top Twenty while UCLA stumbles to regain credibility. In the east, everyone is beating everyone else in the Big East and At­lantic Coast conferences, with seven teams between them in the Top Twenty. Here in the midwest, Indiana upset Purdue but Northwestern upset Indiana, while Dayton knocked off DePaul. 
But here at Notre Dame, the Irish are not getting into the fun as they are seemingly unable to· pull off an upset even if their, well, NCAA hopes depended on it. Because they do. It is now the proverbial do-or-die time. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


Consecutive Sunday losses to Kentucky and Duke were consecutive missed opportunities on national television to tell the basketball world that Notre Dame belonged in the 64-team field. 
I recall when friends at home chuckled at creampuffs like Prairie View A&M and Hardin-Simmons on the Irish schedule, I shot back, "Sure, but we'll win 20 games and make the NCAA's." 
Don't count your chickens ... 
What remains now are nine chances to win for the 12-7 Irish, and it just may take a 9-0 performance if Notre Dame is going to even make the first round of the tournament which it is hosting. The greatest obstacle is 17th-ranked Vanderbilt, which has beaten North Carolina, Kentucky and Florida. But smaller hurdles also need to be crossed, par­ticularly UCLA and Dayton. 
Typically it has taken single-digits in the loss column and twenty-plus in the win column for a team without an auto­matic conference bid to nab an NCAA bid. Louisville ac­complished neither of those goals last year and got snubbed when March Madness rolled around. Cardinals' head coach Denny Crum whined that his boys had played the best in the nation and, heck, they were the defending national champs. Sure they played the best. And they got blown out by the best, too. 18-14 just doesn't cut the mustard. 
Neither will 18-10 or 19-9 for Notre Dame this season. More than one loss and the Irish will probably find them­selves in the N.I.T., otherwise known as the Not Important Tournament. One loss and its anybody's guess. But a 9-0 finish and they're in. The momentum of nine straight wins, the advantage of being a host team and the appeal of David Rivers should secure a fourth-straight NCAA Tournament appearance. 
Fortunately the Irish have seven of their remaining nine games in the friendly confines of the Joyce ACC. At home, Notre Dame averages an 18-point margin above their op­ponents. On the road that margin falls to less than one point. But this is not the only reason Notre Dame should win all seven remaining home games. 
When asked to name the best five crowds in the nation, NBC commentator and all-around basketball god AI McGuire listed the Notre Dame fans. That is true when AI comes to town because he brings national TV cameras with him. 
It is not only do-or-die time for the Irish, but for Irish fans as well. Whether it be the Fordham game tonight on WNDU or the UCLA game Sunday on NBC, Notre Dame fans must be ready to stand behind the team which has brought you this season's humbling of Danny Manning and last season's Notre Dame Moment against top-ranked North Carolina. 
But please, don't throw the yellow placards. 





