Rain of Terror 
Etc: An Tostal '88 
Intermittent rain likely today 
with highs In the lower to mid 
50s. Cloudy tonight with a 50
VIEWPOINT: Terror i-n the aisles percent chance of showers. 



VOL. XXI NO. 106 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's . . · 
., 

Petition calls for outdoor graduation 
By DAN MURPHY Staff Reporter 
Junior Jim Winkler has started a pe­tition to move graduation ceremonies into the football stadium next May. 
Big families mean big problems for seniors when it comes to graduation commencement ceremonies, according to Winkler. "I think it's absolutely ridiculous to have to have a lottery among your own family for four graduation (commencement cere­mony) tickets," said Winkler. 
Commencement ceremonies have been held inside the air conditioned Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center since 1968, limiting the number of avail­able tickets. Each graduating senior receives four tickets to distribute to family members, often a difficult task. 
Winkler gave the petitions to hall presidents to circulate in each dorm. He plans on submitting the petitions to the administration early next week. "The petition is to show that it's not just my idea," said Winkler, "There are a lot of interested students." He said about one quarter of the dorms have returned the petition so far, and the number of signatures is "in the neighborhood of 500." Many students have expressed a desire to help orga­nize an outside graduation, he added. 
Winkler said he was unsure of the petition's prospects for success. "Everyone always says the adminis­tration doesn't listen to students. I think the idea is feasible. With a little creativity, we can make it work in the stadium," he said. 
The unstable South Bend weather is an important consideration, noted Winkler. "There is, obviously, always the possibility of rain, so we need a con­tingency plan, possibly in the ACC," he said. 
The threat of wet weather means everything must be duplicated if the ceremonies are held outside, incurring extra costs, according to assistant registrar David Kil. "You can never 
see GRAD, page 7 

House passes trade bill despite veto threat 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House passed a sweeping trade bill Thursday, deliver­ing a sharp blow to President Reagan as supporters of the hotly disputed mea­sure piled up enough votes to override his threatened veto. 
"Our future isn't in the past," House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, declared as he fought a move to return the bill to a House-Senate conference commit­tee and drop a plant-closings provision that Reagan said he could not approve. "We can regain our competitiveness ... We can be No.1 again." 
The final tally, 312-107, contradicted numerous forecasts that the bill's spon­sors would fail to produce the two­thirds vote needed to override a veto. 
But many lawmakers, even if they had their doubts, appeared to have no taste in an election year for going on record against a measure billed as a plan to upgrade American competitive­ness. 
The bill was a House-Senate compro­mise on two competing measures that passed both chambers last year. The measure now goes to the Senate, where Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd, D­W.Va., planned to begin debate Friday. He was shooting for a vote on final pas­sage early next week. 
The House passed the measure after defeating, 253-167, a move by Minority Leader Robert H. Michel, R-Ill., to throw the bill back to the conference committee and drop the plant-closings provision. 
Reagan, on the road in Massachu­setts, said he would veto the bill if it came to him with the plant-closings provision intact. He also sent a letter to Michel, saying, "I want a trade bill." 
Controversy over the plant-closings provision overshadowed central fea­tures of the bill, which would stream­line the way the United States imposes import curbs to aid U.S. industries and retaliate against international trade vi­olations. 
Scores of other provisions range from repeal of the windfall profits tax on oil companies to billions of dollars in new agricultural subsidies. 

Associated Press 
A $1 million gift from a Wisconsin corporation will fund a legal ethics professorship at the University of Notre Dame Law School, the University an­nounced Thursday. 
The gift from Fort Howard Corp. of Green Bay will fund the Paul J. Schierl chair, named for the company's chair­man and chief executive officer. 
Schierl holds undergraduate and law degrees from Notre Dame and is a member of the Law School Advisory Council. 
Mobs, confusion at checkmarking will be corrected, says Weaver 
By MATT GALLAGHER Copy Editor 
Disorganized mobs rush­ing, pushing and shoving to get their checkmarked classes in O'Shaughnessy Hall should be a thing of the past, said Ellen Weaver, as­sistant chairman of the depar­tment of theology. 
The process of checkmark­ing Wednesday night was typified by confusion among the students in line for theol­ogy and English courses. 
Weaver said the problems arose because the students were unaware where the lines should form. She said the stu­dents in line for theology courses formed from both ends of the hall, and thus there were two lines meeting head­to-head at the office door; pandemonium ensued. 
Weaver, who was present W ednedsay evening in the theology office, said the prob­lem has been overstated. She said there was much confu­sion, but little violence. 
During checkmarking in April 1987, two students were injured as they were pushed through the glass doors of Stepan Center. 
Weaver said that the check­marking was moved to O'Shaughnessy in the fall of 1988 to prevent the confusion which marred the process at Stepan. 
Weaver stated the process went smoothly in November 1987. 
However, the disorganiza­tion was so great Wednesday night that "at a point, we thought (the students) might faint, they were so stifled," said Weaver. 
Joseph Buttigieg, chairman of the department of English, said, "We had a good system worked out. The oroblem was with people skipping lines." 
The "5:30 rule," preventing students from forming lines prior to 5:30p.m., was not en­forced on Wednesday because the departments failed to remind the Security office to enforce it, said Weaver. 
She said that last fall Secur­ity was asked to patrol O'Shaughnessy to prevent lines prior to 5:30 p.m., but apparently no one asked them to do the same this week. 
"No one thought to remind (Security); we assumed that 
... MOBS, page 5 

r ~ -----------------------------------------------T~h~e~O~b~s~eN~e~r_______________________________________F_r_id_a~y,~A~p_ri_l_22~,_1_9_88_ 
~ 
' 
f 
! 
In Brief 
Six hundred additional copies of the special issue of the Notre Dame report will be made available to off­campus and graduate students beginning this afternoon. The issues may be picked up at the student government offices located on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Two hundred more copies for law students will be available in Room 203 of the Law School. Additional ques­tions should be addressed to Darlene Cutrona, extension 5337. -The Observer 
A total of 105 license branches have volunteered to undergo the transition to state jurisdiction under the Bureau of Motor Vehicles Commission prior to the July 1, 1988, deadline established by the Indiana legislature, in­cluding the South Bend and Mishawaka license branches. Under the new system, hours of operation will be expanded from an average of thirty-seven-and-a-half hours to forty­two-and-a-half hours of operation per week. With improved service to motorists the top priority, comment cards will be available in all state-operated license branch offices, so the Commission may receive public input of the changes which have occurred. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Recess 101 will be held today at Stepan Center from 9 to 11 p.m. Events include fingerpainting, free ice cream, balloons, dodge ball and favorite grade school tunes. -The Observer 
Yearbook distribution concludes today. The 1988 Dome will be available from noon to 4 p.m. behind Washington Hall. -The Observer 
Uri Huppert, an Israeli Civil Liberty Activist, will speak on "Jewish Religious Fundamentalism in Israel: The Danger from Within" today at 1:30 p.m. in Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 
Road Rally '88 will be held Saturday at 9 a.m. at the Main Circle. Call Brennan at 2158 with any questions. -The Observer 
The Hangover 5K and 10K runs will begin Saturday in front of the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Registration will be at 9:10a.m., and the runs will begin at 9:30a.m. 
-The Observer 
The off-cam pus An Tostal picnic will be held Saturday at 1 p.m. at 744 Hill Street by the big billboard. Live music and food will be provided. -The Observer 
The Divine Liturgy of the Ukranian Catholic Rite will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church on Saturday at 5 p.m. The liturgy will observe the millennium of Chris­tianity in the Ukraine. -The Observer 
Meetings for staged readings for the Spring Theatre Festival will be held Sunday for interested stu­dents. Meetings will be at 4 p.m. in the lobby of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's and immediately following the per­formance of Bent at Washington Hall that night. The meeting will begin at approximately 10: 15 p.m. in the Green Room of Washington Hall. -The Observer 
An Irish Guard meeting will be held on Sunday at 4:30 p.m. in the Band Room at Washington Hall. All those interested in trying out next fall should plan to at­tend. If you cannot make it, or if you have questions, call Tom Lauer at 1850 or stop by 375 Dillon or contact the Band Office. -The Observer 
All engaged couples from the NDSMC community are invited to a mass in their honor Sunday at 7 p.m. in Alumni Hall. Rev. Andre Leveille will preside. If there are any questions, contact Matt Zyniewicz at 271-0039. -The Observer 
The Hesburgh Program in Public Service will sponsor a talk by Sen. Pete V. Domenici, the republican senator from New Mexico, Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Res­burgh Library auditorium. -The Observer 

Viewpoint Layout ................... Syl Flood 
Design Editor ..... .. Joe Zadrozny 
Typist .................................. Will Zamer
Design Assistant .............. Sean Buckley 
............................................ Jenn Conlon
Typesetters ...................... John Mullaney 
ND Day Editor ............. ... Janet Herold
.......................................•...Paul Jackson 
SMC Day Editor ..................... Liz Ryan
News Editor. . ............. Tim O'Keefe 
Photographer ......................... Jim Brake
Copy Editor ...................... Michelle Dall 
Sports Copy Editor............. Greg Guffey
Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Patrick Zande 
De oe-r-(USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. ne Olllener is publis~ ~Y the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscripuons may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S15 per semester) by writina ne Oll.ener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
ne Oll.ener is • member of ne Allodaled Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
ND racial must be 
Almost one year ago today, a racial con­frontation marred the championship game of the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. No mat­ter what provoked the incident, I, among many spectators, sensed a very dangerous situation­-something that one would not expect to see at Notre Dame. 
This ugly incident inspired a letter from Uni­versity President Father Edward Malloy that called for the end of "comments or actions that display racial or ethnic insensitivity." Certain­ly, the fact that racially motivated incidents happen on this campus cannot be overlooked. Whether competition on the court or ignorance off the court breeds the ugliness, it is time that the University's administrators, faculty and students challenge themselves to examine their own attitudes concerning racial insensitivity. 
One of the problems at this University cur­rently being looked at is the obvious lack of minority students, faculty and administrative staff. Only 3 percent of the students and only a handful of faculty and administrators are black. The fact that these numbers are not anywhere close to national averages may lead to a general attitude that minorities should not have to be dealt with. This ignorance must come to an end immediately. 
The administration is apparently serious in attempts to end much of the racial ignorance. Its recommendations to increase minority en­rollment reflects Father Malloy's commitment to establishing goals in terms of minorities. Also, the University has named a senior admin­istrator to encourage and implement the direc­tives of the University. All of these steps are encouraging and should be looked at optimis­tically. 
One of the most positive steps that the Uni­versity has taken, however, was the Minority Visitation Weekend held last weekend. The pur­pose of the weekend was to bring in prospective minority candidates and acclimate them to the University setting. 
This is the type of action that needs to con­tinue if the University truly wants to end racial ignorance in the community. For students here in the community, it was a time to share their experiences with high school students and help them adapt to university life. Possibly more important, however, was that the community here saw that the program for increasing minority commitment, though long overdue, is making tremendous strides. 
One hundred and ten minority students came to Notre Dame. Eighty percent of these high school students will enroll here next year, ac-
problems addressed 

cording to estimates. This number eight times the amount of students who attended a similar weekend visitation four years ago. 
Students were able to meet and discuss ad­missions and financial aid possibilities and were given tours of the entire campus. Some were addressed by the deans of the various col­leges, and Father Malloy addressed the candi­dates. Students were also introduced to various student organizations at a student forum. 
Mter discussing the weekend with the high school students and actually taking part in one of the activities, it seems that everyone bene­fitted from the weekend. The entire weekend left everyone with a feeling that things are beginning to change for the minorities here. 
This change, nonetheless, is far from com­plete. When these minorities enter the Univer­sity, they will face many of the same problems that exist now. Integration is still a goal and not a reality at this point. 
It is our challenge now to act. The programs have been set, and progress has been witnessed in minority admissions. But this work will go for naught, unless attitudes change. Last weekend was an indication that attitudes are changing. Hopefully, this weekend, with the bookstore championship, will indicate that the change is not just a one weekend affair. 

MONDAY, MAY 9 7:30 

MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED: $11.50 

Groups of 20 or more save one dollar 
Tickets available at the Civic Auditorium Box Office and all the usual locations. Tickets also available at Bethel Bookstore (Mishawaka and Elkart), Providence Bookstore and Living Word Bookstore. Ch 
arge by Phone: 219/284-9190 Mail Order: Send a self addressed, stamped.envelope to Morris Civic Auditorium, 


___-__:___'____~-________:_~--~~~--· ---1 
~2. 1988 The Observer 
Reagan fears that Senate may not ratify treaty before summit 
Associated Press the Senate won't rush to ratify Hill. Reagan said that if it 
the treaty. reaches his desk in its present 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. "We want a good treaty; that form, he will veto it. President Reagan said is our objective," Byrd said, He also said he would imme­Thursday he is "very con­telling reporters the approach diately ask Congress to enact cerned" the Senate may not of the Moscow summit ''doesn't a new bill that did not contain ratify the pending U.S.-Soviet guide me at all." provisions to which the admin­arms control treaty before he He added: "I'm not going to istration objects, including a goes to Moscow for summit rush to judgment." requirement for companies to talks with Soviet leader Mik­The pending treaty, covering give workers notice of plant hail Gorbachev. intermediate and shorter­closings. 
In a question-and-answer range missiles, was signed by In his speech to the group, session after a speech to the Reagan and Gorbachev at their which was billed as a scene­World Affairs Council of West­summit meeting in Washington setter for the upcoming sum­ern Massachusetts, Reagan in December. mit, Reagan proclaimed a was asked by a law student When the two leaders meet "period of realistic engage­what the effect on the talks again in Moscow from May 29 ment" between the United would be if the Senate had not to June 2, one of the issues con­States and the Soviet Union. yet ratified the treaty. fronting them will be a treaty "Even while freedom is on 
"I think it would be very up­still being negotiated that the march, Soviet-American setting and would put a strain would cover longer-range in­relations have taken a dra­on the summit if the Senate has tercontinental nuclear mis­matic turn into a period of real­not ratified the treaty by the siles. istic engagement," Reagan time we go there," the presi­Of this treaty, Reagan said, said. dent said. "There is a great question as "Two of the most bas~ rights 
"We hope and pray that they to whether it could be ready for that we have called on the will, but their scheduling of it signature at the summit." Soviets to comply with," the has been such that I am very "We don't want a fast president said, "are the right 
concerned we may have to go treaty," he said. "We want a to emigrate and the right to without having had it ratified," good one." travel. How can we help but he said. On another issue, the presi­doubt a government that 
Senate Majority Leader dent was asked about a trade mistrusts its own people and Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said bill being considered on Capitol holds them against their will? 
Dinnerfor 2Just $5.99
$9.99 Pan Pizza Dinner 
Includes your choice ofa medium Deep­
Special 

Dish Sicilian pi:t..7.a or a 12" Hand-lhssed Includes a large Deep-Dish Sicilian or 14" Round or 1 0" P'an Brio· with 1 topping P'.m Brio~ pizza (with up to .3 toppings) and 1order ofbreado;tick'>.
and 2 orders ofbreado;ticks. 
I >rink.' nc >I indudl"d.
l>rink.' nulanclmkd. 

N,u val ill with any tJthl·rNul valid wilh an)" ulh.c:r 
t:tmptm tJr t.lisl'C 1un1 . 
..:tlllfl'JO tJrt.li~l'tJUOI 

SUB Special Events Commission 
is looking for students to chair individual events for the 1988-89 school year. 
Applications are available in the SUB Office 2nd floor Lafortune. Due 5pm, Mon. Apr. 25. 
page 3 
i 
The Observer 1 Jim Brake
Buckle up 

Junior Steve Rawlings gets a jolt in the Indiana State Police "Convincer." The "Convincer" is a machine used to demonstrate the hazards of not wearing a seat belt. 
FORD -TOYOTA ­
JORDAN'S AUTOMALL 
PH: 259-1981 
GMAT LSAT MCAT GRE& NCLEX 

TRANSFER TO YOUR HOME TOWN! GET HOMESTUDY PACKETS NOW! FFER GOOD ONLY IN SOUTH BEND. I 
~· 


* Expires 6/15/88 
KAPLAN~ 
STANLEY H. KAptAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
The worlds leading test prep organization 
CAU DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-41}5 South Bend, IN 466}7 

~~---------~---------~-~-----~-~----------------------.......---~---~----~-~--------­
page 4 The Observer 
Israel celebrates 40th b-day 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Israel cele­brated its fortieth birthday Thursday, but in the violence­ridden occupied territories, it was called Firebomb Day, proclaimed by the PLO. 
Military jets roared over Jerusalem, and Israel honored Independence war veterans, who fought five Arab armies in 1948. 
Soldiers were on alert in the West Bank and Ga~a Strip, which Israel has occupied since the 1967 war, but Palestinians managed to throw a firebomb at a military patrol in Beth­lehem. 
Journalists were barred from much of the West Bank and Gaza, and the 1.5 million Pales­tinians who live there are prohibited from entering Israel for the rest of this week. Cur­fews in 23 towns and refugee camps affected about 400,000 Arabs. 
Palestinians were on general strike in much of the occupied lands, following the the instruc­tions of a Palestine Liberation Organization leaflet. 
Violence has swept the ter­ritories since Dec. 8, and at least 169 Palestinians have been killed. An Israeli soldier and civilian also have been slain. 
New details emerged Thursday about the assassina­tion of Khalil Wazir, the PLO military commander also known as Abu Jihad (Father of the Holy War). 
Israeli sources said an Is­raeli commando team carried out the operation under the direct command of Lt. Gen. 
''A FUNNY AND ABSOLUTELY DELIGHTFUL COMEDY. 
Robert Redford struck oil in his directing debut with the Oscar-winning ~Ordinary People= Now, he bas another gusher with 'Milagro= It's wonderful. Don't miss it!" 
-Stewart Klein, FOX NETWORK 
'What an incredible cast, beautifully directed by Robert Redford. 'Milagro' is wonderful I loved this film!'' -Joel Siegel, GOOD MORNING AMERICA 
''Nothing Redford hasdone before will prepare you for the wide-eyed charm of this cinematic fable. 'Milagro'provides plenty to smile abouf.' 
-David Ansen, NEWSWEEK 
The Observer I Jim Brake
Yummy yummy fish heads 
Junior Fred Scott stresses the culinary delights of raw fish while seeking donations for Professor Carl Starn's goldfish swallow Thursday. All profits from the event will go toward Starn's UMOC campaign. 
High Street Storage 
1212 High Street South Bend 
5' x 5' --$15/month 
5' x 10' --$20/ month 
10' x 10' --$32/month 
1 0' x 20' --$45 I month 
other sizes available 
288-3575 
11A delightfully raucous comic fable. What makes this genial, wacky movie so captivating is not only its wild and crazy characters, but its mysteriously mystical atmosphere=' 
-Kathleen Carroll, NEW YORK DAILY NEWS 
AFILM DIRECfED BY ROBERT REDFORD 
T H E 
MILAGRO 
BEAN FIELD 
W A R 
Friday, April 22, 1988 
•

Three injured 1n gas explosion 
Associated Press 

MISHAWAKA, Ind. -An apartment resident and two firefighters were injured, but none seriously, in a fire that fol­lowed an explosion at a westside apartment complex, fire officials said. 
Residents of the Jamestown Apartments complex north of Town & Country Shopping Centre reported smelling natu­ral gas before the explosion, but no cause was determined immediately, investigators said. 
Dawn Speicher, 28, told aut­horities she was lying on a bed in an upstairs bedroom when the ceiling began fall on her. She was able to get out of the apartment and was treated at St. Joseph's Medical Center in South Bend for burns on her 
The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yQu have any, cQme tQ Qur Qfflces and start wQrklng Qn yQur newspaper. 
Dean·s Run 
Twice Around the Lakes (7km) 

Sunday Apri 1 24 at 11:30 am 
Sponsored by the College of Science Student Council 
Register in Room 229 Nieuwland Science Hall 
YOUR UNCLE WANTS TO PAY FOR COLLEGE. BUT ONLY IF YOU'RE GOOD ENOUGH. 
Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition and provide an allowance for fees and textbooks. Find out if you qualify. 


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. Scholarships This Summer Call Capt. Warrick 
forearms and hands, officials said. 
Firefighters Paul Floridia and Michael Portolese were slightly injured when sections of ceiling cpllapsed on them. 
"I felt the burning on my neck and told the man in back of me to stick the hose down my back," said Portolese. 
Residents told police that a contractor had been working on natural gas lines at the apartment complex the past few days, and that they had smelled gas during that period. 
City fire inspector Joe Bathje said it would be several days before a cause could be deter­mined. 
Firefighters said five units sustained damage. No damage estimate was immediately available. 


Friday, April 22, 1988 
The Observer pageS 
Shultz meets with Shevardnadze 
Associated Press the talks between Shultz and Shevardnadze. who have been 
MOSCOW -Soviet Foreign meeting monthly since Minister Eduard A. February in preparation for Shevardnadze and U.S. Secre-the Moscow summit meeting tary of State George P. Shultz that begins May 29. discussed human rights and Perfiliev described the ex­regional conflicts Thursday but changes as being held in "a reached no breakthroughs constructive atmosphere," and despite a "constructive atmo-Redman said the ministers sphere" and less contention have made it their practice to over Afghanistan. get down to serious work on the 
Last week's signing of an ac-issues that divide them. cord setting a May 15 start for A U.S. official who spoke on the withdrawal of Soviet troops condition of anonymity said the from Afghanistan "certainly meetings had produced "a has been a positive develop-modicum of progress" on ment," said State Department several fronts. spokesman Charles Redman. He said arms control experts 
He said the apparent im-met in a working session while provement in the Afghanistan Shultz and Shevardnadze situation made that issue less agreed on procedures for joint contentious, but that the war experiments in nuclear testing and its consequences were not to begin in July, both at the U.S. a "closed book." Questions of test range in Nevada and at the monitoring the pullout and hel-Soviet facility in Semi­ping Afghan refugees continue palatinsk. to confront U.S. and Soviet of-"They were good, solid, Play It again, Mike 
ficials, he said. businesslike meetings," the of-Notre Dame guitarists Mike Senkovich, Mike Lee and Mall Thursday. With the warm weather, bands are Both Redman and Foreign ficial said, but he added, "I Mike Ury perform a few classic pieces at Fieldhouse frequently being featured outdoors. Ministry spokesman Vadim don't have anything of a Perfiliev praised the mood at breakthrough to point to." 
M b 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
0 S Class
•• , planned corrective measuresf f f f to prevent such confusion ; sop-
continued from page 13

ff Due to Last Minute Cancellations tt continued trom page 1 ~f~fr:~d f~~:~~~~r~~~ d~a:! 

,t 3 openings are available for Summer t, it would work out. Security was next Tuesday. SELL YOUR HOUSEl SEU ALL OF 
YOUR PERSONAL BELONGINGS!

'f p · L d t' not to blame," said Weaver. "We will have more people 
SCRAPE UP ALL OF THE MONEY YOU 

f rogram In On On. f Director of Security Rex there at the beginning (of the 
CAN AND GIVE, GIVE, GIVE III NO, THIS IS NOT ORAL ROBERTS SPEAKING

,t Join SMC-ND classmates in Ireland, Wales, t, Rakow and Assistant Director evening)," said Weaver, "to 
TO YOU BUT THE MARY BERGER FOR 

't Scotland, and France. t' Phil Johnson were out of town supervise the forming of UMOC COMMITTEE. GIVE WHAT YOU CAN TO MAKE SURE THAT MARY IS VOTED THE UGLIEST MAN ON
!t Contact Prof. A. R. Black t! ~~l~~~~s~:~~~~t~hus unavail-~~~~~· b~h~g:~s~la~~g i~~~= 
~ ____~~~6~ ~ ~::::~ ___Jt Weaver said her depla!!rt!!m!!e!!nt!!!!h!!a!!ll!!t!llodirect the lines. 

UNGJ ~ STATO'J 
CELEBRATE YOUR GRADUATION IN STYLE 
South Bend's Historic Art Deco Train Station is a 
Great Place for Your Graduation Party. We have 
JUNIORS! 
halls to accomodate 25 to 600 people. 

(Seniors-to-Be) CALL 233-2876 
It's time to put your resumes together. Are they looking bare? Well, here's your chance to add some activities and have some fun at the same time. Such positions as "Newsletter Editor," "Advertising Coordinator," Public Relations Director," and "Off-Campus Communications Liason" are available. We are looking for enthusiastic people with new and creative ideas. If you are interested and have not received an application in the mail, please pick one up outside of the Junior Class Office. Please return all applications to your dorm executives (indicated on the application) or to the Junior Class Office by THIS Friday, April 22nd! 
CAMPUS Ill 
MARY "UGLY" BERGER FOR UMOCIII 
r squared would you like to have lunch today at lhe Cornucopia? love me 
you only 10,000 days left In this relationship. HIM 
R'ib;..&..:n;;;;:··w~:~~-ij;;i..i;;;;··i.4·~·,;b~··;;;d the seven Inches, where do you want ~ ... in the shower? J-Bird & T-Hawk 
i<ri~ii~'"i(;~ii.;;;j;'"i~'"2'i''''i;;;j;~····i(~;;ii~ 
Kralicek Is 21 today Please wish her a very happy birthday 
You're out of tuck Kristin, Oregon disease doasn't go away when you tum 21. Have a very special and happy birthday, Nanook 
Deaperate Davey-Boy, Just a warning: Sex wrth a 16 year old Is a felony I Have a good time. Remember, Big brother Is watching II Bobber 
For Sale M plane ticket to anywhere In US Valid thru 1189 Call: Chris 1!1747 w-BO. 
DOMESTOCK '81 
An T oalal and Alumni Hall proudly pres­ent a ftashbeck to lhe age of outdoor tunes... ... Campus Band Jam 5 10 9 p.m. The following bands will appear on stage on South Quad: 5 p.m.: Zeto and lhe Heat-Ons 
6:15p.m.: Barbara Billingsly 
7:30 p.m.: The Groove ... Be !here... Be rhere...Be there... ....................... ....................................... 
HAPPYBtRTHDAYHAPPYBIRTHDAY IrS ANNE CRANLEY'S BIRTHDAY THIS WEEKEND Ill BE SURE TO WISH THE GODDESS A HAPPY ONE (MEN: A KISS WIU BE SUFFICIENT) 
........................................................... Taddy Bear, Love and Silence don't worl< tor me Have time lor a chat? Love, Hap­piness 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take o lilesov•ng Red Cross CPR course. 

Saving the Best for Last! 

page 6 The Observer Friday, April 22, 1988 
.·... 
.::.
... .:. 
Apple.the Apple logo and ~acintosh 

Take HomeANew 
Roommate This 
Summer! 
.. 

.. . ......... . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.. . 

.. ... . .. : . . ... ... . ... ... ~. .. . .. . ...·..·.· .·.·. 
. . ·:.·.·.··· .·. ·.:· :·.:···.·· .·.·::.. :.·.:·.·...... · ... . 
f e e e e e f e e e e e e : I e: •• e e
. . .. . . . .:. .. .... ·.... ' .. .. . ...... 
e f e •• e f e e e e e e e e e e e e e I. e f e e I II I I e I •: I 
'·••••••••••• ••••••• • •••••• • •I •• •••• • • •••• ••• •• •••'
. . . . . . . . . .. . . ..... ·........·.. ....·.·.. : . . . .. .·. . .. .. 
. ...... 
f  1  I  I  f  e  :  I  f  If I  e  e  ,  e  I  f  e  I  •,  )' I  e  :  
. . . ... . . ....  2 • • •• ••. .  
..  ·.  . .  ... . . ...  ....  ... ..  
...  ....  ...  

.. .. ···~·. ..
.... ' . . . 
... . ·. .. . . M~i~t&h;SEl/ii
... .. 
.. .. ···········=··.·~:·.· .
. . I I I e I II e f .•' e e •e I I 
. . 
.. .. 
...
..
..... 
...
..
.· . 
.-:· .· 

University of Notre Dame Faculty, staff and students can buy Macintost1-----11 computers at discounted prices from the Notre Dame Computer Store. 
For further information, inquire: the Computing Center, Room 25, 9:00-5:00 M-F Phone 239-7477 
Friday, April 22, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Smoking ban on short flights starts Saturday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Aboard thousands of airline flights, the smoking lamp is about to be ex­tinguished. 
The federal ban on cigarette smoking on domestic flights of two hours or less -about 80 per­cent of the total -takes effect at 
12:01 a.m. Saturday. Beforehand, some avid smokers are reconsidering train travel while others search for ways to keep their tobacco urges under control, at least for a few hours. 
Government and airline in­dustry officials said Thursday they expect the new smoking restrictions to cause few prob­lems, although some confusion may exist for the first few days. 
"On the whole, I think we're in reasonably good shape on this," said Transportation Sec­retary Jim Burnley, whose de­partment issued the new re­strictions earlier this month in compliance with a law enacted by Congress last year. 
Agostino elected new McCandless president 
Observer Staff Report 
The winners of the McCand­less Hall elections were an­nounced Thursday by Michelle Agostino, elections commis­sioner for Saint Mary's student government. 
The ticket of Kathy Schmidt was elected president with 63 percent of all votes cast. The ticket of Mary English gar­nered 29 percent of the vote, and 8 percent abstained. 
On the winning ticket were also Joanne Martin as vice­president, Nicole Hill as trea­surer, and Kathleen Dowd as secretary, said Agostino. 
33 percent of next year's hall residents voted in the election, the last hall election of the year, said Agostino. 
Schmidt said, "We think that McCandless has the potential to be a unified and active dorm on campus." 
She added that she plans to do this through "personal inter­action with the residents." 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Aestalrant And Cocktail Lounge Authentic SzechU81'1 end Hunan Tute 
lunches startin1 at.......$3. Dinnen startin11t-_. __ . _$4.
(\1 oo~s 
0\'eo ..,.eeV... 
Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272-7376 
South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 

WE'RE CELEBRATING 
Another year of making the thickest, richest pizza in town. It's obvious you are people of taste and distinction who appreciate the exceptional rather than the ordinary. 
THANKS! We value your business. 
-------.:t{.]ilJ·]~..---······--· 
SUPER
SAVE OVER 
$6.00 PEPPERONI 
I 2 medium original Super Pepperonis
I 
ONLY S10.99 p~:~~~~&
I c!uauls 
Coupon Expires Pizza. I
I 
Not valid with other offers or coupons
I v I 
Limited Delivery Area 

The Transportation Depart­ment and the Federal Aviation Administration have come un­der some criticism, however, for not pushing the airlines 
hard enough to publicize details of the new restrictions and avoid passenger confusion. 
"The airlines do not have a uniform policy to inform the public" about the new rules, said Susan Bianchi-Sand, pres­ident of the 21,000-member As­sociation of Flight Attendants. 
She said at least one airline inserted details about the new requirements into flight crew manuals only this week, and four airlines are continuing to book seats in smoking sections of no-smoking flights. 
An estimated 13,600 domestic flights a day will be affected. International flights are not af­fected, and the length of a flight will be determined by the time shown in the airlines' official schedule. 
Even if a flight is delayed in the air or on the ground and 
New Jersey Great Britain 
• 
The General Medical Council of Great Britain officially recognized St. George's University on February 9, 1988. 

• 
Approved February 4, 1987 by the New York State Educa­tion Departmept for the purpose of conducting a clinical clerkship program in New York teaching hospitals. 

• 
St. George's received a similar approval in 1985 from the New Jersey Board of Medical Examiners. 

• 
Over 700 students have transferred to U.S. medical schools. 

• 
St. George's has graduated over 1,275 physicians: They are licensed in 45 states; They hold faculty positions in 22 U.S. medical schools; 2507o have gone on to be Chief Residents In their specialty!" (*according to a 1986 survey.) 

• 
St. George's students qualify for Guaranteed Student Loans. Our students also qualify for the PLUS/ALAS loans and, under certain conditions, VA loans. St. George's grants loans and scholarships to entering students. 


own & Country us 31 North 
For information St. George's University School of Medicine Shopping Center in Roseland I please Office of Admissions, Dept. 488 
contact: c/o FMSSC • One East Main Street 259-2556 277-5880 Bay Shore, NY 11706 • (516) 665-8500 
·-----------------.._______________________....J 
goes beyond two hours, smoking will be prohibited if the schedule has the flight listed as lasting two hours or less, FAA officials said. 
The government has defined a flight as being any single seg­ment between two cities. Thus, for example, a traveler flying from Washington, D.C., to Los Angeles with a stop in St. Louis would not be able to smoke on the first leg of the flight but would be allowed to do so on the second, longer leg. 
Grad 
continued from page 1 
depend on the weather," said Kil. "What if it rains in the middle (of the ceremonies)?" He said two sites would have to be set up: the actual site of the ceremonies and an altern­ative site in case of foul wea­ther. 
"Even if itdoesn't rain," said Kil, "there is a high likelihood that hot and humid weather would make it very uncomfort­able for the guests, and espe­cially the graduates who would be wearing black ~owns." 
Kil emphasized that the cer­emony will be shown on closed­circuit television for those who are unable to attend. He also said there are many other events which the entire family may take part in during graduation weekend. He noted the glee club concert at Stepan Center on Saturday, a dance, the baccalaureate mass, tours of the Snite, dinners and brunches. 
Kil said he understands that the ceremonies are emotional for many seniors and family members, but he is unsure of how the university officials will receive the petition. "I'm sure they will take it into consider­ation, but I have a sense it will be turned down," he said. 
"If you're interested, and you think it's a worthy option," said Winkler, "write to the ad­ministration and request it." He also said that interested stu­dents should contact their former hall presidents about signing the petition. 


Two dial-a-porn companies fined over a million dollars 
Associated Press money the companies made during the commission's mon­
WASHINGTON -The FCC on itoring process.Thursday ordered two Califor­In an 11-month period, Audio nia dial-a-porn operators to pay Enterprises made $650,000 off 
fines totaling $1.2 million for calls to one line, the spokesman
failing to restrict access of said. obscene messages to children and nonconsenting adults. Today's order resulted from 
"It's time we took steps. The an FCC investigation triggeredultimate in sleaze deserves the by complaints alleging that ultimate ... penalty," said FCC unimpeded access to the mes­
commissioner James Quello. sages resulted in the molesta­The companies, Audio En­tion of one 10-year-old girl and 
terprises, Inc. and Intercam­so disturbed one teen he had to bio, Inc., were each fined enter weekly psychiatric$600,000 for violation of statutes therapy. banning the interstate trans­The companies have 30 daysmission of obscene material to pay or seek reduction of the and failure to restrict such fine. transmissions from minors and nonconsenting adults. The Earlier commission dial-a­maximum fine is $50,000 for porn rules had mandated the each day of violation. "blocking" of such messages 
An FCC spokesman Gerald through access codes, message Brock said the $600,000 fines scrambling or use of credit were based on the amount of card numbers. 

Friday, April 22, 1988

page 8 The Observer 
Sophomores Stacy O'Grady and Mike Smith jump Thursday. Proceeds from the event will benefit the for charity at the MBA sponsored Jump-a-thon American Cancer Society. 
Meese met at White House over scandal 
Associated Press while he was under investiga­$llbillion Iraqi oil pipeline proj­tion by an independent counsel ect. 
WASHINGTON -Embattled was hampering department McKay is also known to be Attorney General Edwin operations. looking into Mrs. Meese's Meese III was summoned to a One knowledgeable source $40,000-a-year job with the Mul­private meeting with President said Weld told Meese on the day tiple Sclerosis Society. Mrs. Reagan at the White House on he resigned he would seek an Meese's salary is underwritten Wednesday shortly after indictment of Meese if he were by The Bender Foundation, a Reagan met with two top Jus­the special prosecutor. tax-exempt philanthropy run tice Department officials who by a Washington real estate resigned in dissatisfaction with The source said after the family. Meese's continued tenure, a March meeting between Meese Meese has denied anyJustice Department source said and Weld, Meese was sum­wrongdoing and said he didn't Thursday night. moned to the White House and have anything to do with the 
·The source, who declined to met privately with Reagan and lease. be identified, said Deputy At-possibly Bush. torney General Arnold Burns The source was unable to pro­and former Assistant Attorney vide any details of that con­General William Weld, who versation. headed the department's cri-Meese has been under inves­minal division, met at the tigation for nearly a year by White House with Reagan and independent counsel James Vice President George Bush McKay, who is looking into a and perhaps some White House handful of incidents to see if staff members. Meese violated conflict-of-
The details of that conversa-interest or other federal laws. tion could not be learned. Weld Roman Popadiuk, a White and Burns have not discussed House spokesman, did not im­publicly their reasons for turn-mediately respond to a phone ing in their resignations March call seeking White House com­
29. menton the meeting. 
Sources close to them have McKay is looking into said they felt Meese's contin-Meese's ties to the scandal­ued tenure in the department plagued Wedtech Corp. and a 
***********************************\ *~ Check out... * * * 
i* THE GROOVE i* 
* *
* *
* *
*~ winner of this year's Nazz competition *~ * and * 
,.,.1111-IHI..IIII......IIIII...III..IMIIIIIIIIIHIIIIII...IIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIDIIIIIIII... 
* * 
16..•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••¢ 
i Catholics in Bad ~ 
~............................................................................................................................,:: 
......._......"....................... Standing
no...................................

;...............-...................... .....................................~ 
..........................................................-.................................................................1 :* another campus favorite * * *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* * 
* *
* *
* *
* * 
* *
* * 
************************************* 
SENIOR FORMAL PROOFS 
DISPLAY & ORDER 
at: OHARA LOUNGE MAIN LOBBY LAFORTUNE 
FRI 6-9PM 4/22 MON 3-SPM 4/25 
Pick up Formal and Candids Fri 4/29-5-7pm 
Questions: Call Maggie 283-2581 
----. ---~~-~------~--... 
Viewpoint
Friday, April 22, 1988 page 9 
---------~-------------------­
P.O. Box Q 
Checkmark system favors cutthroats 
Dear Editor: 
Here we go again, another check­
mark system editorial. Let's review the 
system: stand in line, get checkmark 
card, fill it out, turn it in. Sounds simple 
enough, doesn't it? 
Well, I found out last night, Wednes­
day, that the words "classy, polity, 
courteous, decent, fair, loving and un­
derstanding," words that I thought 
were associated with the University of 
Notre Dame, are not part of the check­
mark system. Maybe it is not the fault 
of the checkmark system but of the 
many students who decided that all is 
fair in love, war and checkmarking. 
I was in line last night to checkmark 
an English course "Principles of 
Practical Writing." I got to 
O'Shaughnessy early because I knew 
that the lines would be long. There I 
was, with about 30 people in front of 
me in the line. The line got bigger as 
the minutes ticked away, and, just to 
be safe (so I thought), I checked with 
the people in front of me to see who 
wanted the same course. My survey 
found eight people in front of me who 
wanted the same course. Whew, I 
thought I was a shoe-in with plenty of 
openings behind me. 
My first mistake was assuming that 
lining up on the third floor of 
O'Shaughnessy were people of honor. 
Instead they turned out to be cut­
throats. I thought that they would fol­
low the rules of fair play, but that would 
be against everything the Notre Dame 
student stands for, wouldn't it? When 
the door opened, the people who were 
at the back of the line, which had 
snaked towards the front of the line, 
rushed to the front and filled the spaces 
in the course I wanted. 
Oh, wait a minute; I got it. It is the 
scripture addage "The first shall be 
last and the last shall be first," right? 
I knew it was connected to Notre Dame 
somehow. 
Whatever happened to "Good things 
come to those who wait?" It was 
replaced with "Nice guys finish last!" 
Solutions? How about callin~ 1-800­
CHECKMARK to register for those 
classes? At least I can have a fair shot 
at getting the class then. Of course, I 
would lose to the students who would 
cut the phone lines down. 
There was a security officer at 
Doonesbury 
IT'S 6R£AT TO 5EE Y()(J /16A!N, CAP'N.' HA5 IT ReALLY8/ZN FIVEti/1-KU 
YeARS~ 
/ 

O'Shaughnessy last night, but he left 30 seconds before the doors opened be­cause he didn't want to get hurt. How about handing out numbers like at the deli? What about doing each of the four departments in different buildings so the lines don't curl around themselves and let the last be first? The only ad­vantage to having checkmarks in O'Shaughnessy is that there are no win­dows to push people through. Different days for each of the four departments would help, too. 
I don't know what the solution is, but I hope someone finds one soon, for the freshman's sake. By the way, Professor Soens, I really would like to take your class, so if you can fit me in, please call; I'm in the book. 
Doug Weglarz Dillon Hall April 21, 1988 
Fidelity ad parallels Python 
Dear Editor: 

Recently, several students have at­tacked a letter writer for objecting to the University's showing of "The Life of Brian." The students admit that the picture is "bawdy" and do not even deny that it is sacrilegious. Yet they conclude that these things should not be a concern and recite the usual lib­ertarian platitudes: "The purpose of a university is free and open intellectual exchange," and the Church's con­demnation of the film "belongs buried in the Church's past, along with the crusades and inquisitions .... " 
This all sounds very nice, and I'm sure the students who wrote these state­ments all got 'A's in their courses on civil rights, the American Consitiution and the Second Vatican Council. Yet isn't it interesting that this resounding attack on the evils of censorship comes only two months after the Notre Dame community in righteous wrath to violently condemn an ad for a Fidelity expose on the Notre Dame theology de­partment? Whatever one's opinion on the article, I didn't hear much about the right to free speech, the importance of freedom of dissent and the evils of censorship then. Instead everyone au­tomatically insisted the ad should be suppressed, to the point where the then editor-in-chief of The Observer knuckled under to outside pressure and 
IA/OIAI... THIS IS /N(R£[)181&. 
I PHAT IS? 
\ 
apologized for running the ad. In addi­university's Publications Office, I was tion, the issue containing the article given an apology instead. was quickly removed from the shelves Third, the meetings for "response"in the Hesburgh Library. What is more, to the reports were organized and as­the man responsible for the ad was even signed by on-campus undergraduate denied the chance to defend himself in dorms. No forum for gathering a letter-to-the-editor. response from graduate students was 
Why? Nobody denied the truth of the announced. article featured in the ad; in fact, if Of course, if we graduate students anything, its statements were con­can't get copies of the report to read, firmed by earlier articles in journals I guess it would be difficult for us to like Common Sense. Rather the ad was have any comments on it. so objectionable, people declared, Richard Beatty simply because it was "tasteless." Yet Off-Campus by contrast, when Monty Python makes April15, 1988 a movie that is purposelessly tasteless, not to mention sacrilegious, and doesn't S M C 
students do

even have the redeeming value of truth, this is not seen as sufficient grounds respect workersfor declining to show it or even to ex­press misgivings about it. 
So what are we to make of this? If Dear Editor: someone merely reports the findings of We, as students of Saint Mary's have a police investigation on a member of great respect for the employees of the the Notre Dame theology department, Marriot Corp. and their agility at ser­it is tasteless and proof that the dirty vicing such large numbers on a daily reprobate responsible couldn't possibly basis. Personally, we have had no prob­be as Christian and decent as we are. lem with the staff of the Saint Mary's Yet when a movie ruthlessly mocks dining hall. No problem, that is, until Jesus dying on the cross, then it is said we were publicly assailed by the stu­we should all be big enough to take a dent managers in their letter of April little joke. 18. 
Is this the meaning of Catholicism--be Before they lecture us in front of the open to all expressions of speech, no entire University and College in the matter how derisive, inflammitory or name of Christian priniciple, they vulgar, as long as they don't happen to should please consider that isolated in­soil our own reputation? cidences do not a "thoughtless, greedy, 
I don't know if such a policy means and rude" community make. Portray­Notre Dame isn't fulfilling its self-ing Saint Mary's women as "girls call­declared Catholic mission. But if this ing each other names over cookies" is is the meaning of Catholicism, I'd an insult to their education as well as rather be an atheist anyway. At least to the majority of intelligent women an atheist is consistent. here. 
Chris Julka We are sorry if the experience at the Flanner Hall dining hall has driven them to such bit­April 21, 1988 terness., We agree their job is difficult. That's probably one of the reasons why they are the highest paid student
Graduate Students 
workers on campus.
excluded Wait, we do remember having a prob­lem with a member of the dining hall Dear Editor: staff. A student manager screamed at Amidst all the excitement surround­us for taking the initiative to fill our ing the release of the Presidential Task cereal bowl from an unopened bag in­Force reports, a few facts must be stead of from one of the many empty borne in mind: dispensers. We now know this is illegal. 
First, it is not the case that the She was probably just having a bad reports have been circulated to "all stu­day. It happens to the most Christian dents." Only 4400 copies were printed, of us. and that's not enough to go around. Elizabeth Whelpley 
Second, no means of distributing Kathleen S. Bock reports to graduate students were ex­Augusta Hall ercised. When I asked for a copy at the April19, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 
GOOIJ. YOU'RE 

Quote of the Day 
"For to be possessed of good mental powers is not 
s u ff i c i en t ; matter is well."  the to  p r I n c I p a I apply them  
Descartes  

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Edltoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark McLaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shl~s Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 
The Observer 

Progressive Quartet promises variety 
CAROLYN GARDNER 
accent writer 

Y
ou may have seen their posters around campus --the Kronos Quartet. Their group photo looks like a takeoff on the "Just Say No" campaign ... or maybe they're some sort of avant-garde garage band. In reality, Kronos is a foursome of serious musicians who perform exclusively 20th century music ranging from rock and jazz to contemporary classical music. 
MUSIC 

The Kronos Quartet will appear at O'Laughlin Auditorium tonight at 8 to conclude the Saint Mary's College 1987-88 Performing Arts Series. 
The group was founded in 
197.3 by first violinist David Har­rington. Other members include second violinist John Sherba, violist Hank Dutt, and cellist Joan Jeanrenaud. Both Dutt and Jeanrenaud are former Hoosiers, having studied and played in musical groups at Indiana University-Bloomington. Since their first performances in 1977, the unconventional quartet has garnered critical acclaim for its experimental and innovative ways of presenting chamber music while retaining the classi­cal tradition. 
The Quartet has premiered over 250 works in the last ten years, more than any other quar­tet In history. Harrington Is 
pleased with the current musical 
scene, maintaining that "this is 
the most exciting time for the 
string quartet. Every composer Is 
interested in writing for the 
string quartet today ... It's the 
most personal medium, the 
most difficult the clearest, the 
most concise." 
Accordingly, Friday night's program will feature music by Philip Glass, a 'new wave tango' by Astor Piazzolla, and the title song from Kronos' latest album, "White Man Sleeps," by Kevin Volans. 
But even if your taste runs contrary to such new music, Kronos may still have something for you. Jazz enthusiasts can expect to hear arrangements of music by Thelonious Monk, Bill Evans, and Omette Coleman, and the program will also in­clude 20th century classical music by Bela Bartok. Finally, though there's no guarantee on this one, the quartet is famous for its interpretation of Jimi Hendrix's "Purple Haze." 
Tonight's performance prom­ises to be an interesting blend of styles and the price is right for all of you budget-conscious (or just broke) music lovers: tickets are $7.50, $6.50, and $5.50 and are available through the O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Of­fice. If you'd like to postpone payment till you get a summer 
job, Visa and MasterCard orders 
are accepted. For reservations 
and further information about 
the Kronos Quartet, call the box 
office at 284-4626. 


JIM WINKLER wall decorations keep the sports 
T
he Cubs are on one T.V., the NHL playoffs on another. Turn your head and you see the latest in dog sled racing on ESPN. Look back to your table and a basket of Golden Dome Rings ("An Irish Fans Favorite") appears. With one spin of the 
BAR BEAT 
head, you've taken in the sights and sounds of one of the best known secrets in the Greater Michiana region: Between the Buns, "a sports and spirits, soup and sandwiches" establishment, located at 1150.3 Lincoln Way West in Osceola. 
Between the Buns is the type of place a sports fan loves. They have eight different beer brands, although only Old Style is on tap. The food is good and is aimed at the burger and fries crowd; and the atmosphere and fan in tune with the current sporting news and memorabilia of glorious moments in the past. 
The menu' alone at Between the Buns makes the trip worth the while. All of the entrees are written in the sports motif. "Leading Off and Playing Ap­petizers" tells of Macho Hector Ca-'Nachos,' a spicy bean and beef nacho basket that goes for $2.95. 
Other appetizers of note are the Chicken Strippers ($.3.25), strips of chicken breast deep fried and served with a choice of B.B.Q., sweet and sour, or mus­tard sauce. A note of warning: the B.B.Q. sauce is very spicy and the sweet and sour may be a better choice. 
The restaurant's name obvi­ously indicates that hamburgers are the speciality. The best choice on the menu is the Tinkers to Evers to Cheeseburger, a cheddar cheese burger that comes in a basket with cheese fries and pickles for only $.3. 25. 
Another special of note is the Chili Rodriquezz Burger, topped with homemade chili, raw onion, and cheddar cheese for $.3.95. The burgers are all served with cheese fries and are served on a choice of white, wheat, rye, sesame, or onion buns. It is good to tell the waitress you want the burger cooked well­done, because "rare" means "raw" in the kitchen. 
Although primarily a restau­rant, Between the Buns also has quality drinking capacities, ip­cluding a nice weather outdoor 
Between the Buns 
Address: 11503 Lincolnway West, Osceola. 679-4474 
Atmosphere: Sports bar 
Specialty Nights: Wednesday Lite Night Sat. $2.50 Long Island Ice Teas 


----------------""~------...., 

I burgers 
patio, a full bar, drink specials, 
and classic big drinks with take 
home glasses. 
Each month Buns prints a 
calendar with specials on it. For 
April, the main specials are Wed­
nesday Lite night, where all Mil­
ler Lite and Bud light cans are 
for $2.50, and Saturdays with 
$2.50 Long Island Ice Teas. 
Also, Between the Buns has spe­
cial parties for afternoon Cubs 
games on WON. 
Although Between the Buns is 
a spectacular establishment, it is 
a bit off the beaten path for 
Notre Damtt St. Mary's students. 
Osceola Is a hole in the wall 
town just past Mishawaka. 
To get to Between the Buns, 
flll the car with gas and head 
south on .31 into the city. Turn 
left on Monroe and take that for 
I 0 miles. Monroe will change 
names and become Lincoln Way 
West. In the middle of nowhere 
on the left hand side, Between 
the Buns appears. 
Trio of play explores social topics 
ROBYN SIMMONS accent writer 
S 
tudent directors will be set­ting the stage for three plays this weekend as part of the Lab Theater Series for the Notre Dame Department of Communi­cation and Theater. 
"Gangsters," written by Maishe Mayponya and directed Notre Dame senior Bill Wilson, will be presented tonight and tomorrow evening at 8 in the lab theater on the third floor of Washington Hall. 

.......~1!1!1111111~ 
Immediately after "Gangsters" the audience will move to the main stage of Washington Hall where "Talking With ... " written by Jane Martin and directed by Notre Dame senior Laurie Shea will be performed at 9. 
"Bent," written by Martin Sher­man and directed by Saint Mary's senior Anatasia Borgman will be presented on Sunday and Monday night at 8 in the lab theater. Admission is free for ail three 
Kristen Olsen, Amy Mcfadden, Shawna Rheaume, Laurie Shea, Sllri Scott, Nancy 
Tye-Dyc Sorin Statue 
JelloToss 
Alumni 

Licorice Eating Cushing 
Marshmallow Stuffing O'Shaugnessy 
Mattress Race Cushing 
Hot Pepper Eating Alumni 
Doughnut Eating Alumni 
Egg Drop Alumni 

Watermelon Seed Spitting Alumni 
Pie-In-Face Cushing 

Treasure Hunt Administration Building 
Egg Toss Alumni 

K. Lynn Berry, Robin Dvorak, and Kassie Misiewiscz in a scene from "Talking With ... " 
, firt TOSTfiL ·as 
y p Tire-Rolling 2:00pm Stepan Center 11:00 pm Stepan Field 12:3().. Cushing SUNNY SATURDAY Three-Legged Race 12:35 pm 3:30pm Road Rally 9:00am Northwest of Stepan Center 
Pie Eating 2:00pm 
Main Circle 

12:30 pm Alumni Slip and Slide 12:40 pm Hangover Runs 9:30am East Side of Stepan Center 
Keg Toss 2:30pm 
Stepan Center 

!2:30pm Cushing Mud Pits 1:00pm Kite Flying 10:00-WhiteField
Cereal Eating 2:30pm 
Stepan Field I 1:00am 

12:45 pm Alumni Mud Wheelbarrow Race 1:15pm Picnic I 1:00am WhiteField
Popcorn Eating Contest 
Northwest of Stepan Center 

1:00pm 2:45pm Mud Pillow Fights 1:25pm Alumni Mud Volleyball Finals I 1:00am WhiteField WhiteField 
1:00pm Cow Chip Toss 2:45pm Mud Tug-of·War 1:35pm Cushing Balloon Toss 12:00Noon White Field Picnic Area 
1:15pm Obstacle Course 3:00pm Mud Chariot Races 2:00pm South Dining Hall Orange Pass 12:05 pm White Field Picnic Area 
1:15pm Car Stuffing 3:30pm Frisbee Golf 4:00pm Alumni Wheelbarrow Race 12:10 pm Holy Cross Hall Northwest of Stepan Field 
Impersonations  3:45pm  
1:30pm  Stage  Bucket Brigade  
1:30pm  "JeoparND"  4:15pm  Northwest Stepan Field  
Stage  
1:30pm  Serf Auction Stage  4:45pm  Potato Spoon Relay Picnic Area  
1:45pm  Domestock Band Jam South Quad Stage  5:00­9:00pm  Sack Race Stepan Field  
Recess  9:00­ 

Wilson and Borgman are both directing as part of their final project for COTH 444 Directing: Practice. Although not enrolled in COTH 444, Shea is currently a teaching assistant in COTH 221 Acting: Process. Shea appears in "Talking With .. " a series of monologues with nine women: two actresses, a housewife who lives in Oz, a rodeo rider, a baton twirler, a daughter griev­ing over her mother's death, a woman in labor, an old lady who loves McDonald's, and a tattooed woman. 
'There's a thread that runs through them all and ties them together," said Shea, "These people represent us. The theater is a mirror that reflects reality and these characters on the stage are a microcosm." 
Borgman is directing "Bent," a drama which depicts the per­secution of homosexuals in Nazi Germany. The story revolves around Max (Kevin Kennedy) who is forced to assist in the killing of his lover Rudy (Eli Coats). In Dachau, Max meets Horst (Matt Nash) another homo­sexual who teaches Max to 
"'-~ 

Irish Wake 10:00 pm Stonehenge
12:15 pm SERENE SUNDAY 
12:20 pm Bookstore Finals 12:00noon Stepan Couns 

12:25 pm Graham Chapman 7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium (SMC) 
------~~ --­

hiding behind the yellow Star of David worn by Jews and accept the pink triangle worn by gay prisoners. 
"The play shows homosexuals as real people, as opposed to the common stereotype,'" said Borgman, "They are people with emotions and relationships and problems just like anyone else. They just share a different sexual preference." 
"Gangsters" is another socially conscious play, with a very timely topic. "Gangsters" was inspired by the death of Steve Biko, a black South African ac­tivist and leader of the Black Consciousness Movement, in 1977. The main character of the play is Rasechaba (Eli Coats), a poet who describes the plight of blacks under apartheid in South Africa. 
"South Africa is a very impor­tant cause for me," said Wilson, "I believe that I chose the play because I wanted people to see what kinds of things go on In South Africa and I felt that this particular play was a useful tool ­for this desire." 
Friday, April 22, 1988 

Accent 
a e 12 

The ND myth and its dream 
You may have read of timental over the landmarks; Portland, Maine, "the beau­but landmarks are unsentimen­tiful townlfhat is seated by the tal, and as indifferent to you as sea," in Longfellow's poem, dirt would be. It is painful to "My Lost Youth." Longfellow meet the child who was father was born in Portland in 1804, to the man. and I saw the light of day there I had a good time, talking to one and a quarter centuries the Notre Dame Club of later. Portland. I brought two props Last Friday, I went to to use in giving that talk: Pro-Father Robert Griffin Letters to a Lonely God Portland, after many years fessor Fischer's autobiography, away, to speak to the Notre "Notre Dame Remembered", Dame Club, and to test the published last year, and the saying, "You can't go home recent Notre Dame Report ex­again." Lons:~fellow's poem was amining University life. Holding the mood music that haunted up the book, I _said: "This is the me, until it finally became myth." Showing them the  Club in Portland, and In Manchester, New Hampshire, I became aware of how much Notre Dame, as a place where the myth is still taking place, means to the grads. On foot­ball weekends and at class reunions, they look forward to going home again, expecting to find change, yet hoping nothing essential to the myth has been lost. They want to recall, as Longfellow recalled, their lost youth; and many of them find it for a couple of days every spring or fall. Notre Dame doesn't change as their hometown changes, because tradition survives on a campus as a nourishment that keeps the school spirit alive. Notre Dame doesn't exist however, to embalm Its past.  What troubles me about the Notre Dame Report I realize now, after thinking about It for a week, is the perception that the University has, that it must be all things to all comers. So many needs have to be balanced, it seems, if Notre Dame is to fulfill its mission; and apparently we will not be at peace with ourselves until it happens. The Report makes Alma Mater sound as though she wished to be as caring as the earth mother, as involved in peoples' lives as the welfare state. We're replacing the Camelot myth with the myth of Utopia. The Task Force on whole health recommends a compre­hensive program of health promotion that addresses the spiritual, vocational, physical,  paternalism the price the Uni­versity has to pay, if It wishes to be more than a male Catho­lic ghetto, catering to upper­middle class white kids from conservative, Republican· families? The Notre Dame that I wanted to see nourishing is one where young men and wo­men, from an endless spec­trum of backgrounds, could come to be educated, and to grow in grace and wisdom before God and the world. All this in a climate of dignity and freedom that is so pervasive that they are even free to make costly mistakes. The teachers hired to instruct them should be free to teach their classes, write their books, and turn out as geniuses.  
tiresome, like Muzak. The  report I said: "This is the  All the progress we have made  intellectual, social, and emo­ The camel, they say, is what  
landmarks that Longfellow  blueprint of the Dream of the  so far promises that we will  tional needs of all the mem­ a horse would look like if it  
remembered from his boyhood are still there, I remember  Future." What I meant was that Notre  make even greater progress tomorrow. Notre Dame is  bers of the community. In the future, obviously,  were put together by commit­tee. A grove of academe put  
seeing them when I was a lad.  Dame, like Camelot is a mythi­ looking forward to the 21st  nothin!l will be left to chance.  together by a group of commit­ 
Every stanza mentions someth­ing that I can identify with as though the town were change­less.  cal place, and senior faculty members like Professors Fis­cher and Stritch and the late Richard Sullivan are Its literary  Century, when all our present greatness will seem like the prelude to a symphony whose initial themes have been for­ not ev~n the right to smoke, or male, female relationships. How can you make students comfortable with their alternate  tees could turn out to be as homely as a herd of camels. But a committee knows, from experience, what a horse looks  
"I remember the gleams and glooms that darti,A.cross the schoolboy's brain:lfhe song and silence in the heart:.lfhat In  chroniclers. No one has written more beautifully of a campus they love than these three Catholic gentlemen of the old  shadowed by the orchestra waiting to begin its thunder. Why, then, in my speech, did I feel the tension between the  sexual lifestyle? Anything, they say, is morally permissible, as long as it doesn't frighten the horses. What kind of standard  like. A committee has an idea of what Notre Dame, Our Mot­her, should look like if they keep our controlling myths in  
- part are prophecies, and in part/Are longings wild and vain .... And Deering's Woods are fresh and fair/And with joy that is almost pain! My heart goes back to wander there/And among the dreams or the days  school. They have kept our legends and traditions Qreen in our memories by documenting the myth of Notre Dame's greatness from the beginning until now. Talking to the Notre Dame  Myth and the Dream? Is there anything in the Dream that threatens to leave the Myth in ruin? Progress can look like an enemy when you're on a nos­talgia trip, looking for the lost childhood.  is that for a Christian commu­nity? Could all those recommen· dations be implemented with· out the University's appearing to be maternallstic and pater­nalistic? Is maternalism and  mind. Nostalgia shouldn't be the glue that binds the Dream to the Myth; but I hope that in the 21st century, the grads will feel that in their trips to Notre Dame, they can, and will be, going home again.  

that wereA find my lost youth again." 
Is it sentimental to claim that on a weekend in April, when I was 62, I met the child who was father to the man? Even so, It is true that you can't go home again, in a satisfactory way. 
You can visit the landmarks 
on a well-remembered street; 
but they don't look the same; 
and ghosts from the past if there are any, don't show themselves. You may be sen-
Join The Observer 

SUSAN ODGERS 

BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
Happy 19th 

: ~ ~ 

Birthday 
AUTHORIZED DEALER 
you LUSH!!! 
BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES-SERVICE-PART8-·ACCEUORIES 
• 
CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY • OPEN TUES 9AM • 7PM 

• 
OPEN WED • SAT 9AM • 5:30PM 


Summer Storage Available Kryptonite Locks 
Parts & Service Available 
Students $26.95 

Love, 
ROSELAND 277-8866 
with ad cut-out

You Know Who... 
135 DIXIE WAYS. 

Saint ~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 



J'ISA, JUSl'ERc.4RD ACCEI'l'ED 

The Observer page 13 
Tile a.-..NotN Deme office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, 8CC8Pb clualfled .tMwtl.tng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtclay. The a.-..Saint tary'1l office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, 8CC8Pta claelfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtclay. Deedllne for next-day claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must
Classifieds be .,..,aid, either In pen10n or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per flwt ~perday. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-'082 
Professors and grad-students: Pandora's will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to make an appointment. 10-5:30 7 day&Week 
Wordproceaalng·Typing 
272~27 
CAU 237·1949 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277·7406 
WORD~ PLUS Scholaslic Typong€diting Rush Jobs O.K. 256-3077 
Computer Art Faor Friday, April 29 In Roley Hall Room 200. Come sea lhe latest in lnteractove Art, Videodoaks. and Computer Musoc at 4 
p.m. and Computer Animabon Videos at 5 p.m. Don't miss the moat Innovative computer and art work Notre Dame has seen 1n years. 
LH:YOU ARE LOVEDI 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST· A dark blue velcro wallet. H has all my od. and drtver's license. I have no exoalenca wolhout this wallet. Please call Matt at x3t34 or 3132. 
LOST: Royal blue NO backpack from North Dining Hall at Lunch Monday. Call Batay at x4t69 PLEASEIII 
LOST: Black vinyl shoulder bag at senoor formal check-ln. Contains a 35mm camera, pocket camera. notebook and planner. II you have any onformalion or accodentally pocked it up please call Theresa at 277·8158. III!IREWARDIIIII for any ol ot returned. 
Lost on Friday (If I knew where: this wouldn't be put In) Ray Ban sunglasses Gold frames leas than tK. II found please call Dan at 271-0480 
LOST-A ROYAL BLUE BACKPACK IN THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO HYATI DURING SENIOR FORMAL-ANY IN· FORMATION PLEASE CAll DIANE 413211 
FOUND· Set ot car and oHica keys on a Notre Dame key ring. Stop by room 10·S In Stepan Chemostry Building between 8 
a.m. and t p.m. to collect them. 
lost· At Senoor Formal: A black purse w1th a Kodak camera ins1de and a Vivitar camera on a gray easel If found please call George at 287 ·0753 or Kathleen at 284·42881111 
LOST ·Gold "ST. Chnstopher" medal and chain probably at Rockne. call Broan 283· 3833 $40 raward 
loallll A black Oroent watch on Saturday, Aprol 10 on front of Holy Crosa Hall. If tound PLEASE return to 340 Holy Cross or call ~ 1238. Would greatly appreciate lhe return. THANKS! 
LOST: LIZ CLAIBOURNE PURSE AT FRESHMAN FORMAL MY 1.0. AND KEYS ARE INSIDE SO GIVE ME A CALL AT 284·5182. REWARDI REWARD! 
LOST: SCARLET OHIO STATE U. LET· TER BLANKET AT STEPAN COURTS DURING BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL. CALL BILL SEXTON AT 23~123. 
LOST: brown leather wallet with every· lhing valuable In it. Please return rt to me and i will gove you a reward. If you're a blonde 6' male and wanl to keep lhe minnesota licanse as a fake ld be my guest but please give me back the copy card,onsuranca cards, and onslent cash card tor my bank at home. and give me the nd od because or doesn't do you any good keep the credit carda because they're no good anymore anyway I lost H on wednesday, april 13 at night be· tween the future home of the international peace studies and alumni erther call 1 060 or leave it anonymously In 207 alumni if you want the reward call 
LOST:CAMERA, CANON SURE-SHOT. LOST AT THE SENIOR FORMAL AT THE DANCE ON SATURDAY NIGHT. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL2541. 
FOUND· MAN'S TIMEX WATCH IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL MEN'S LOCKER ROOM 
FOUND: BASKETBALL CAll 1657 WITH DETAILS AND DESCRIPTIION 
FOR RENT 
NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
summer rental beautiful, large 1 bedroom apt. in house wtiver view. 1 mile from campus fur· nished, ssle neighborhood, fenced yard. 289·2527 
6-7 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER OR 9 MO LEASE FOR FALL.272~306 
FOR RENT 3 BR HOME SUPER CLEAN INSIDOOUT, WITH GARAGE. WALK TO CAMPUS. $470 MONTH NEG. CALL LEN AT 234·7650 OR JOHN 232·3972. 
LARGE, FURNISHED STUDENT HOUSE available lor summer anc:lbr !all Maalon on NO Ave. 255-5852 evenlnga. 
Plan lor FAll! Large 5 bedroom house near campus. Furnished or unfurnished. Also available for summer. Call272· 7258 ............................................................ 
WANTED 
WANTED: PLASMA DONORS. Help aave a llle and Nrn extra ceah at the aame time. New and old donora who have not given within 30 dayo will be paid $12 caah after donating II you brtng In thla ad. Come to American Plaama on Tueaday, Wedneadoy, Friday or Saturday, 515 Llncolnway Weal, South Bend. 234-6010. 
SUMMER JOBS All LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­INGS 914 3814224 
WANTED....WANTEo····wANTED••..\ I nned a female roommate for the sum· mer. Will split expenses lor a Turtle Creek 
apartment. If interested call Amy 284· 5470. 
CHICAGO ROOMMATE NEEDED Graduating in May? Wor1<ing in Chicago? Looking for a roommate? Call me STEVE G. 289-9233 
SENIORS: UvingoWor1<ing in Wash. D.C. next year? Need a ROOMMATE? Call JOHN at xt666 
SEEKING"...SEEKING""""SEEKING A FEMALE ROOMATE FOR OFF· CAMPUS 88-89. IF INTERESTED CAll LIZ 277·0860. 
DESPERATE AND WILLING TO PAY ...for graduation tickets call Monica # 3938 
Want to go to Europe? Female senior wants travel prtner-Call 3938 
Looking for used Mac call Todd at 1639 with model and price 
FOR SALE 
Government Homea !rom SUM!. "U Repair". Alao tax delinquent property. Call 80s-844·9533 Ext. 1387 lor Info. 
IBM PCIXT Model 086 tOMb disk. 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:FIIe, LOGO and other software packages also avail· able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239-7248 weekdays from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 

MACINTOSH t28K: IMAGEWRITER 1 & ACCESSORIES Call TOM 2350 
IBM PO?<T Clone Call Rick 271·0548 
1978 4·DOOR VW RABBIT, 92,000 miles GOOD COND. $1100 call288-6154 
UNITED LIMO TICKET FOR SALE·· WORTH $40, ASKING $30.CALL 271­0575. 
79 FORD LTD, RUST PROOF, $1280, AOCASSETIE,CALL Jl 2834155 
14" COLOR TV SAMSUNG $85 CAll Jl 2834155 
FOR SALE: 1983 GREY FORD ES· ~WJI'r"WJII!IDEII:OI'IDITION. CAll271· 0868. 
Graduation weekend-plane ticket· Nationai,Wash.DC to South Bend on thur.eve.5112 return on Mon.5116. Asking $150. I will also sell one-way tor $90. Call Brtan 283-3833 
A.T.T. PC 7300 PERSONNAL COM­PUTER ASK MARGUERITE 256·5737 
FOR SALE: 1983 GREY FORD ES­CORT. GOOD CONDITION. 38,000 MI. CAll 271-0868 
FOR SALE: 18" K-TV, 2 LARGE LAMPS, SANYO MICROWAVE, FULL·SIZE BAR, 2 MATCHING LOVE SEATS .......CAll 271-0868 
Onaway licket to Philly, $138, Sun., May 81h, 12:45, call 287·1243 or 239·7313. 
1981 Olda Wagon 89000 mllea Excel· lant Condition New tlrwa, brakea, car· borator. $2200 271.0785 
76' ELDORADO 69000 MLS NO RUST NO DENTS NEW EXHAUST $900 Al· PINE SYSTEM $3200 CAll ED AT 232 1198 AFTER 6 PM 
AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ANIMALS FOR SALE 50% OF RETAIL PRICE # 232· 1198 
Moving off campua? Creating a party room? For Sale: Matching loveseat and armchair...chocolate brown strong wood frame, top condition, bought practically new. used only one semester...great prica...call2170... in time tor hall storage. 
81 Chevette·l T 70,000 mi. Runs great. nica intertor, $1150. Call Paul 1530 
TICKETS 

I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA· TION. Will PAY. CALL3257 ASK FOR BRIAN 
HELP!I I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big $$$ Call Heidi 233·4176 
HELP! You've golto undemlandl My tam· ily is too big and 3 reason I want to say... 

1. My siblings WANT to SEE me in per­son, NOT to HEARl 2. They WANT to CRY OUT their CHEER. but CAN'T HEAR them! 3. Because I'M DEAF!.. PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, I desperately need 3 GRADUTATION TICKETS! I Will PAY $$$$ PLEASE CAll JJ x3276 
I NEED AS MANY GRAD TICKETS AS YOU CAN SELL CAll SAM: 271·0683 OR 288·5818 
OUR FAMILIES ARE COMING All THE WAY FROM PUERTO RICO, SO WE NEED to GRADUATION TIX. Will PAY ANY PRICE. CAll 277·72611 
I NEED t GRAD TIC $DAN 234-5346 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Students: Sell your unwanted class books tor $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off NO Ave. 1 0·5:30, 7day&Week 233·2342 
ATIENTION 88 GRADUATES tst Sourca Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey al 236·2200 
Bartles Imports BMWMAZDAVW All JETIAS at invoice PH. 272·8504 Ends April 30th 
SENIORS: Moving to So. Cal. for a per· manent job? Call me it you need a room­mate. Jim 1912. 
SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or 
B.MILLER PO 665 NO IN 

JUST SAY uNOc. ugly nan on campua ... 
Vote UMOC 
Vote UMOC Ls Fortune Info Boolh MON-FRI7·9 

STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER at STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! Loweat me. 24 hour electronic protec­tion. Call 854-3638. 
CRUISE TO THE TUNE OF $6-$1GtiR. can you make $12,01f0o'{r. delivering lor Domlno'a PIZZll? You bell Now hiring. 1835 South Bend Avenue $3.7Stor with bonua at hlra. 277-2151. 
AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIll AN TOSTAL IS HEREttl AN TOSTALIS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HERE Ill AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII 
SENIORS: Going to a new city? Carwer and Plac"'""nt Sarvlcaa can help you flnd other N.D. grada going to the aame city. STOP BY AND SIGN UP NOW 
And Now For Something Completely Oil· lerent ... Monty Python's GRAHAM CHAPMAN at O'laughlin Auditortum Sunday, April 24th 7:30 
tickets: $5 students$! 0 public Ticket 
Stub·laFortune O'laughlin Box Offica 
Century Center Ticket Office 

BRING OUT YOUR DEADI Graham Chapman Tickets on sale now 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN GRAHAM CHAPMAN GRAHAM CHAPMAN GRAHAM CHAPMAN THE CIRCUS IS COMING Ill Wed., April 27 .... 

JUDY HUTCHINSON has a GREAT sense ot humor and loves jokes (don't you, Judy?) but BOY Is she UGLYII 
U.R.O.C. Ugly Rectress on Campus U.R.O.C 
JUDY HUTCHINSON is too UGL Y··make her feel good and bring your pennies to laFortunell Judy Hutchinson: U.R.O.C.· ·ugly rectress on campus•••••• 
AN TOSTAL T-SHIRTS ARE HERE X 1951 
Have A Coke And A Smile 
OH, MY GOD, THEY'RE BACKII 
!he Labian Miners are coming!!! 
1-WAY TICKET ANYWHERE, $80. CAU KIM 2971 
SMC-ND LONDON SUMMER PRo­GRAM (May 1lhlune 17) LATE CAN· CELLATIONS HAVE CREATED 3 OPENINGS Program lncludea trwvel In Ireland, Walea, Scotland, England & Franca Couroeo available In Buec, Art, Soc, 
Blo, a. Hlat can Pro!. A.R.Biack at 284-4480 (offlce) or 272-3728 (home). 
LE CERCLE FRANCAIS •••••••• SOIREE ••••••••• Monday Aprtl 25 7·10 ISO Lounge Food, Fun, Music, Slides 
JULIE BENNETI 
JULIE BENNETI 
JULIE BENNETI 
Squeeze Mel!! 
Whoever took my gray jacket from Stepen courts Monday: I'd lil<e it back. Call Chris at x1694. 
NEEDED: ROOMMATE West Chicago burbs-Oak Pari< area, call Jane (SMC 87) 312-482·7289 
FREE JAZZ CLASSII THIS SUNDAY AT THEODORE'S FROM 7 ~:30 P.M. ONLY ARST 30. 
My little flower of love: I am afraid I've covered you with enough fertilizer to plant a field of wheat. Or is that your breath I smell? By the way, you look cute in your robe. And It I could do It all again, I would have worn the purple tie. Or would I have wanted lhe striped shirt? Well, you looked great the whole time. 
LISA HOWARD, YU'RE THE BESTIII 
can you say"HAPPY BIRTHDAY,LISA HOWARD?" practica now and call 2685 sat.at midnite-allday sunday 
FOR SALE: 1983 GREY FORD ES· CORT. 38,000 MI. CALL 271·0868. 
I lived through hell 
and I'm never going back 
WHAT? A REAL BAND IN S. BEND? CINCINNATI RECORDING ARTISTS DOC and the PODS at BRIDGETS, SATURDAY NIGHT wtBARBARA BIL· LINGSLY. 7 PM. 
DOC AND THE PODS, ON THIS WEEKS WVFI TOP TEN PLAY LIST SATURDAY NIGHT AT BRIDGETS, 7 PM. WI BARBARA BILUNGSLY. 
Sue Sue Sue Sue Sue Happy Birthday Happy Birthday The Bestest Big Brothers 
LYNN SWIFT HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! LOVE, MOM a. DAD 
Brian 
Please pay me back. I need money for 
personalized plates on my BMWI Isn't 
graduation greal? You will be tourtng LA 
in style. 
So. Cal. 

PHILADELPHIA CLUB Baggage truck will be loading on 5oS: 1·2 PM at SMC behind LeMana 2-5 PM on Stepan courta(NOT 2-3PM) Truck will tentatively unload on !>11 btwn Spectrum & JFK !rom 1-3PM Quea­tlona? call John at 2004 
To the cast of Talking With .. Ready to do it in the dark? For whoever and whalever, whoever makes of it? Of course we are, because tonight .. 
We're in !he light 
Saludl LULU 

HORST, 
I'm all ben! up about your show and I'm 
exploding with anticopation. I Ieee/ it will 
be a climactic end to the year. Yeses! 
Think pinkl 
SCREWLOOSE 

p.s. I'm rubbing my eyebrow . 
CHIMES 88 CHIMES 88 CHIMES 88 CHIMES 88 

STEVE RIEDL HAPPY BIRTHDAYII 
HOW ABOUT ANOTHER TRIP TO PSUI?I (I DRIVE) 
ANNIE P. 

SHOW DAN JANSEN NO CARES. $ 
FOR LEUKEMIA. CHECKS PAYABLE 
TO 

NOTRE DAME/JANE BERES 
LEUKEMIA FUND ~ TRUSTCORP 
LAFORTUNE 
HELLO K·TOWN I NEED $$$$$$$$! I also need chocolate chip cookies. Counting the days, see you 
soon. 
Hello, Amanda 

RECESS 1011 FRIDAY AT STEPAN 9­111 RECESS 1011 
Tom Doyle Ia 21 Tom Doyle Ia 21 You can't hide from your roommates... Satur· day Night is your history. 
IF YOU'RE FROM AN IRISH CATHOLIC FAMILY, LOVE NEW MEXICAN SUN· SETS, AND BANANA SPLITS HAVE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! YOU CAN QUOTE ME ON THAT! 
Ann, To the best big sister a guy could ever ask for, HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAYI!I love, John 
TONIGHT"S THE NIGHTI 
From 7:30·10:30 at the Knights of Co­lumbus Hall, NO.SMC Ballroom Danca Club will hold its 
LAST CHANCE TO DANCEI 
DON'T MISS ITI 

SEE ZETO'S LAST PERFORMANCE AT DOMESTOCK REASONS FOR ZETO BREAKUP DAVE'S TRIP TO MET­HADONE CLINIC DON'S SECRET VOODOO MARRIAGE TO BAND GROUPIE •BARB" GEOFF'S NEW FOUND RELIGIOUS BELIEFS RELEASE OF GERARD'S SOLO Al· BUM BRIAN & KURrS MOCKING NICKNAMES FOR OTHER BAND MEM· BERS(LIKE NEQ-CALVANIST) 
TOP TEN SENIOR FORMAL QUOTES AND WS & H'S 88 B'STORE FG % 10. 
W: 1-13, H: Q-7 9. FLASHBACK: CAN I BORROW YOUR HIGHLIGHTER? 8. FLASHBACK: THAT GOONBALL ATE MY POPCORN AT SENIOR BAR 7. HEY BUDDY, IS THAT HOW YOU SPELL DESTANATION? 6: NICE SUIT, BUDDY, WHEN DOES IT HAVE TO BE BACK IN THE WINDOW? 5. YO, DO YOU WANT THOSE DOORS OR WHAT? 4. YOU TWO MET AT K·MART DURING A BLUE-LIGHT SPECIAL? 3. HEY, H, HOW DO YOU MAKE THAT NOISE WITH YOUR FINGER? 2. YOU MET HER LAST NIGHT BUT YOU HAD BEER GOGGLES ON. 
LAURA LlllY is OFFICIAllY 20 TODAYII It's all vodka colllnses from here, Doll-phin. HAPPY BIRTHDAY and have a HUMONGONOUS DAYIII Lata ol Aahy Love, J. BoDean 
DON'T YOU WANT TO SEE THE VALEDICTORIAN PUKE? FRIDAY NIGHT BASHII TITO, BUSY, AND THE OTHER GUY ARE HAVING A PARTY­·DECADANCEIIII TONIGHTII AND AS ALWAYS, F R E E C H E C K I N G 111111111 
SEAN AND THE SUN KINGS, FRIDAY 
AT 10:00 PM AT CLUB 23 t$ COVER 1 $ MOLSON 
SEAN AND THE SUN KINGS, FRIDAY AT 10:00 PM AT CLUB 23 1$ COVER 1 $MOLSON 
KIM, Was that your perfume or were you weartng a NO-PEST strip? P.S.· Has Paula's "boy" frtend gotten UP the con­fidenca to do his manly deed yet? 
See JULIE BENNETI In action In thla laaue. 
Call JULIE BENNEn, ahe'a a great time. 
DOH, SQUEEZE ME JULIE BENNETT!!! 
YOT, A MOMENT TO BE REMEMBERED A PRINC&f!UN EROTIC DISCO CLUB IS NOW BEING FORMEDI­LOOK FOR MORE DETAILS SOONIII THIS COULD BE A SIGN FOR OUR TIME I THE MURPH 
MR. AURIGEMMAIIII 

LICKY, LICKY, LICKYIIIIIIII 
SERENE SUNDAY WILL NEVER BE THE SAME 
METAL GIVEAWAYS ON METAL MAYHEM 
SUNDAY AT 7PM WVA AM 640 

................................................,..,............ 
Tiny Dancer, 
Thanks lor the best six months of my 
life!!! 
I LOVE YOUIII F-Agurw 
FRESHMEN I FRESHMEN I FRESHMEN I CLASS MASS IS THIS SUNDAY AT THE GROTIO AT7:00 P.M. BE THERE WITH MONK AND All YOUR CLASSMATES! 
SPRING TRAINING! SPRING TRAINING! SPRING TRAINING! 
9:30 am MAIN CIRCLE SATURDAY, APRIL 23 
M.G. • GET READY FOR A GOOD TIME TONIGHT I YOU NEVER KNOW WHAT 
CAN HAPPEN WHEN A COUPLE OF MICHIGANDERS GET TOGET· 
·•'I'II!R~.~:e.w.•••••••• 
COLLEEN McCARTHY IS 19 TODAYI I hope this birthday is a special one, I'm sure It will be a memorable onel Well SCREAMIN', Shar1<ey wishes you welll HAPPY BIRTHDAY COLI LOVE AL­
WAYS OINKS 
EGGROLL DON'T WORRY, YOU WILL GET YOURS MONDAY.... LOVE, THE 
FIANCE' 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MO, Mohawl<, Moses, Mosie, Motown, LocoMOtion, Schlo-MO Mo-hican, MAUREEN O'BRIEN. Our utile Mo Is finally 21.How about a repeat per1ormance lonight? 22 shots, head·ln·the·bowl tor 17hrB? Her boys--give Mo a big sloppy Birthday kia tonight at Bridget's 
JULIE BENNETI JULIE BENNETI JULIE BENNETI 
See Julie In this Issue. Call her for yourseW, and gel her magic Squeeze/ 
OH MY GOD JIM, SHE'S HIDEOUSI!I TOP TEN REASONS WHY MQU_Y BAKER DESERVES TO BE UMOC: 10. SHE'S UGLY 9. SHE'S UGLY 8. SHE'S UGLY 7. SHE'S UGLY 6. SHE'S UGLY 5. SHE'S UGLY 4. SHE'S UGLY 3. SHE'S UGLY 
2. SHE'S SOOOO UGLY SHE'S OFF 
THE UMOC SCALE 1. SHE'S THINKS SHE'S NOT UGLY 
SPECIAL SUMMER OFFER 25 PER CENT OFF KAPLAN GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, GRE OR NCLEX PREP COURSES. NOW THRU 8-1s-B8 FOR SOUTH BEND SIGN UPS ONLY. TRANSFER ANYWHERE IN USA • SAVE $$$'Sill CALL272... 135 FOR IN­FO. 
WHAT DOES U.M.O.C. STAND FOR? Ugly Molly On Campus 
OF COURSEII 
PARTYI PARTYI PARTYI APRIL 22,1988 TOASTMASTERS MEET AT 
4:30 MAIN CIRCLE OR CAU 23<Hi7181 
END OF THE YEAR PARTYI TOASTMASTERS MEET AT MAIN CIRCLE 4:30PM APRIL 22, 1988(TODA Yl) CALL 234-6718 FOR INFO 
That's ok It was sheet exchange the next day. 
Happy Birthday Frank 
Sam I was too nice, remember, more coke, sell the tv, don1 shave 
Dr. COLLEEN (MAD MAN) McCARTHY YOU MAY NOT HAVE A WEDDING DAY BUT YOU'll ALWAYS HAVE A BIRTHDAY! LET US DO THE "COACHING" THIS WEEKEND. GIN AND TONIC Will NEVER TASTE THE SAME. WE PROMISE I HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY···CELEBRATE BEFORE YOU GET TOO OLD. WE LOVE YOUI KELLIE, TRISH, PATTY AND LIZ 
MARY BERGER IS THE Ugliest Man On Campus. MARY BERGER IS THE Ugliesl Woman On Campus. MARY BERGER IS JUST PLAIN UGL VIII 
MARY BERGER FOR UMOCIII MARY BERGER FOR UMOCIII MARY BERGER FOR UMOCIII 
AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIll AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII 
see CLASS, page 5 

page 14 
Drew leads usx Classic 
Associated Press 
GULFPORT, Fla.-Heather Drew, winless in five seasons on the LPGA tour, had a career-low six-under-par 66 on Thursday to take a one-stroke lead after the first round of the $225,000 USX golf Classic at Pasadena Yacht and Country Club. 
Tina Tombs-Purtzer, Martha Nause and Rosie Jones had 67s over the 6,013-yard course while another stroke back was the foursome of Kathy Ahearn, Donna White, Vicki Fergon and Kathy Postlewait. 
Australians Sherrin Smyers and Susan Tonkin were at 69. 
Drew, who played early in the day and began her round over the back nine, took advan­tage of the calm conditions with birdies on her first four holes. Her only bogey came on No. 4, her 13th hole of the day. 
"I was so far under par by the time I made my first bogey that it didn't really matter be­cause there was a par five right after that where I could make a birdie and get it back," Drew, a 28-year-old native of Solana Beach, Calif., said. 
Tombs-Purtzer, also playing early, posted seven birdies against two bogeys in her round. "Conditions were per­fect for playing early," she said. 
Nause and Jones played in 

the afternoon and had to battle 
wind. Yet Nause had only one 
bogey against six birdies. She 
birdied four of the first six 
holes. 
Friday, April 22, 1988

The Observer 
Men's Bookstore XVII: The Elite Eight 
Put it in the hole a ~Chief (11) Adworks AD-$tars (6) 5Slamma Jamma (7) a shot at Senior Bar (10) Kinkoids (15) Lou's 2 QB's and 2 Blind Men 
) Observer Graphic 

tournament. I thought they a fearsome shot-blocker, if not other Bookstore final by then. should have been seeded higher that productive a scorer, in­Tequila's finesse game. will
Tequila 

than lOth going into the Final side. I'll take Pop a Shot at prove to be too much. I sense 16 and they proved me right by Senior Bar by four. a lot of breakaway layups for 
Continued from page 20 
beating an excellent 5 Slamma the little guys in this one. 
Now last year, I said Scotty Jamma squad Wednesday. Last year, the following in­Well, if all this pans out Hicks' 4 Slamma Jamma squad Nevertheless, they now draw formation (the next two (which I probably shouldn't didn't have a chance to beat my the formidable second seed, rounds) didn't mean a whole lot count on, but I'll describe the pick to win it all, Party at Chips Lou's 2 QB's and 2 Blind Guys, for me, as my top two teams final anyway) we'll have a clas­When We Repeat. And, of a team replete with outstand­were beaten in the first round. sic confrontation between two course, I ate my words after ing talent. Holtz really is no Barring similar tragedy, I'll very opposite pomt guards in the upset of the tournament. So slouch on the court, and every­Play will meet Pop a Shot in the final. Al Martin, who might I'll just say it's highly unlikely one else (Jeff Peters, Tony the semis, and Al Martin's as well wear a black hat when that Who's Next? will be able Rice, George Baldus, and Kent team will pop The Shot's he takes the court, may not be to stay with Tequila White Graham) do a little better than bubble. Too much experience a crowd favorite, but he makes Lightning tomorrow, despite hold their own. gives I'll Play the edge over a his teammates play better in the presence of Steve Nicgorski team that it matches up per­the big ones. Not to mention the and the emergence of Joel But position by position, Pop fectly with. Two relatively fact that the members of last Rump as a big scorer. a Shot more than matches up deliberate teams who can run year's Leone's might want a 
The Nanni brothers should with Lou's boys. If they can if they need to. Martin and Sul­little revenge from last year. dominate in tomorrow's battle play defense against the shoot­livan led Leone's Stallion's Nanni, seldom-used as a 
of the walk-ons. Sean Cullinan ing (dunking?) of Rice and over New Order's Ferrara and walk-on this year, wants the has been playing exceptionally Peters, Pop a Shot should do Hills in last year's Elite Eight. championship in his senior well lately (8-for-11 Wednes­all right. Ralph Ferrara is It's a close one, but like I said, year. Gosh, what a crowd­day) and Tequila has just un­probably the most unknown, the team will do what it has to pleaser. I'll take Tequila, but paralleled chemistry running underrated player in the tourn­in order to win. not by much, maybe 21-19. It's the floor. White Lightning by ament, with great instincts and a game I'd really like to see. six. a silken jump shot. He and Joe In the other semi, Tequila 
And now my upset special. Hills can fill it up against White Lightning should dispose But I suppose I'd like to break I've been watching Pop a Shot anybody from outside, and of Hahn's Funeral Home be-the .500 mark this year a little at Senior Bar since early in the Steve Bynum has evolved into cause they're going to s/m_e,_ll_a_n_-_m_o_r_e_.---.. 
playing together and their overall court balance. They are too solid a team for Hahn's to dismantle. 
In the other semi, look for a tight game between Adworks and Pop A Shot. A look at the position matchups and individ­ual talent gives Adworks the nod. They are a talented bunch of individuals. But they have put together several different lineups during the course of the tournament, replacing injuries and absences, and are not the cohesive team that Pop A Shot is. Pop A Shot is a talented bunch of individuals who also blend into a talented unit on the court. Four players return from last year's final eight finish, and this year they're on their way to the championship. 
Tequila White Lightning vs. Pop A Shot At Senior Bar. 
I don't know. Pop A Shot of Tequila and take a guess. My guess is Pop A Shot. They're hungry, they're tough, and as long as tornado-like winds don't rush the campus, they should be on target for the Bookstore laurels. But don't trust me, go watch for yourself and catch what will certainly be some great basketball. Now where's that tequila'? 



Th1s week at the Snite: 
together. They will against I'll Play today, and despite the I mental toughness of Martin, 

~ 
5ft Dl~~

I Sullivan and Mundo, they will 
D(IVE I title-game victory which has I eluded them for two years run­I ning. 
I probably not get a shot at a 
Don't drink and drive 
Following that matchup, Pop 

A public service message from The Observer
I 
l 
Individual admission $2.00 
With the suppon of the Indiana Arts COmmi.sslon 4 the National Endowment for the Arts 

1 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre A[)W(JAIC.I 
For 
Something Completely Different ... 
&£~••,f.!RD presents
2~..1......r 

........unmu..... Monty Python's 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN 
Sun., April 24 
7:30p.m. 
O'Laughlin 
Auditorium 
Saint Mary's College 

Tickets Now on Sale O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office Ticket Stub, LaFortune Hall, Notre Dame Century Center Box Office 
All Seats Reserved: 510/55 Students 
Visa/MasterCard Orders and Information: 284-4626 
Picks 
Continued from page 20 
ballhandling skills spell double trouble for other guards, and will do the same for Who's Next, who's the next victim for the tournament's top seed. 
ln the other 4:30 game, Ad­works All-Stars meets I'll Play, No I Won't. This will be a dandy. Adworks has Gary Voce, flashy Ricky Watters and sharpshooting Kevin Keyes and John Buscher. I'll Play, No I Won't has Al Martin's inten­sity, Al Martin's intensity and Al Martin's intensity. I'll Play is not just Martin, though, with forward Bill Sullivan combin­ing rough-and-tumble play in­side with a smooth jumper as John Mundo and John Kennedy work the perimeter with Mar­tin. But I'll Play is not the same team they were as Leone's Stal­lions for the past two years, missing Mike O'Grady to graduation and the hot hands of Gary Sasse who played with Air Doggers this year. 
Adworks has the guns--last year's Mr. Bookstore, the start­ing center on the Irish basket­ball team, the fleet-of-foot Wat­ters, the bulk of Matt Dingens underneath and the quiet talent of Keyes. They are solid and have perhaps the best talent in the tournament, the question is whether or not they put it all A Shot At Senior Bar and Lou's 
2 QBs and Two Blind Men will meet in another classic and in these eyes, another upset. Put simply, Pop A Shot has more talent on the basketball court and matches tip better against Lou's 2 QBs. Ralph Ferrara and Joe Hills have been on fire for Pop A Shot and could be the best backcourt duo next to the Nanni brothers. The inside games of both teams are strong but not overpowering. Pop A Shot's zone should contain the penetration of Jeff Peters and Tony Rice, and if they can keep George Baldus and Kent Graham off the boards, it's on to the Final Four. 
In the other late game, look for Hahn's Funeral Home to toss Chip's Bar in a tight one. Bubba Cunningham and com­pany are another talented group which complement each other on the court. Taking noth­ing away from Derrick Johnson, Aaron Robb and the rest of Chip's, Hahn's is on a roll and will be difficult to stop ... 
... until they meet Tequila. So far we have Tequila, Hahn's, Adworks and Pop A Shot in the Final Four. Once again, Te­quila will win on Saturday be­cause of their experience 
Friday, April 22. 7:15 & 9:30pm. AUENS 
Breathtaking sequel to ALIEN, stars Sigourney Weaver as the ultimate hero, rewriting our 
understanding of 
sexual difference. 

Monday, Aprtl 25, 7:00 & 9:30pm. Zorba the Greek (1964) 146 min. 
Anthony Quinn stars as the earthy peasant in the zesty and spectacular adaption of Kazantzaki's novel. 

Friday, April 22, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Sports Briefs 
T~e Blue-Gold Game will take place Saturday, Apnl 23, at 1:30 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium. Students get in free upon presentation of a student ID card at Gates 15 and 16 only of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. General admission tickets to this 58th annual spring foot­ball game are on advance sale at Gate 10 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Gate 10 of the JACC. Adult tickets cost $3 ($4 on game day), while youth tickets cost $1.50 ($2 on game day). -The Observer 
WVFI-640 AM will air the all-star game and finals of Bookstore Basketball XVII. Jamey Rappis and Frank Mastro will cover the action starting at 1 p.m. on Sunday. 
-The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer team will hold its last meeting Sunday, April24, at Coach Phoebe's house. Meet at 6 p.m. at the library circle. Briing cars if you have them. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
By FRANK PASTOR Wisconsin, meanwhile, is Sports Writer consistently ranked among the Top 25 teams in the nation. The 
The Notre Dame men's ten­Badgers captured a big win nis team travels to Michigan earlier in the year when theythis weekend to take on upset Top 20 Kansas 7-2. Kalamazoo Saturday at 1 p.m. and returns home Sunday to face Wisconsin at 11 a.m. 
The Irish (17-10) hope to keep the momentum going after defeating both Indiana State and Ohio University last weekend. 
Kalamazoo, last season's NCAA Division III national champion, looks to provide a stiff test for the Irish. However, first-year coach Bob Bayliss is confident that his team is ca­pable of meeting this chal-"A victory is certainly not lenge. out of the realm of possibility," 
"Notre Dame beat them Bayliss said of the Wisconsin (Kalamazoo) 5-4 last year in a match. "We can beat them." very tense, exciting match," Dan Walsh, Paul Daggs and says Bayliss. "I expect more Dave Reiter, all of whom 


r-;;;;;;;;;;------------------~-==....::.of:...:;:th.::e:..:s;::a:,::m~e:;;,.::th.:,::is~e~a::r;.;..'-'___ missed last weekend's matches, return this weekend to bolster the Irish lineup. Mike Wallace remains sidelined with a rotator cuff injury. Sunday's match will be par­ticularly important to second­year captain Walsh, for it will 


&elusive NO Banking 
Beneflbl 

Walsh winds down career as Irish host home finale 
be his final chance to perform in front of the home crowd. Since his early years, the senior from Bloomfield, Mich. has been surrounded by the legacy which is Notre Dame. His father, two older sisters, two brothers, and a couple of uncles all have passed under the shadow of the Golden Dome at one time or another. 
"I've grown up with Notre Dame all my life," Walsh said. "It's been everything I ex­pected and more. The tennis program has given me a lot, the education is great, and I've made some great friends over the years. I just love the whole atmosphere of Notre Dame." 
Walsh began playing tennis at a local club when he was eight years old. At first, he played tennis simply for the pure enjoyment of it. 
Walsh began to take the sport more seriously when he en­rolled at Brother Rice High School, where he stockpiled an impressive list of athletic and academic honors. 

NUMBER OF ADDITIONAL 
As a junior, he was named

1YPE OF ACCOUNT ENTRIES 
MVP of the Michigan state Direct Deposit.......................................... 25 
championship team after Payroll Deduction.................................... 20 
claiming the number-four Consumer Choice Loan ........................... 15 
singles title. The following

FREE Checking (Interest bearing) ......... 10 
year, he made the all-state

Savings; Christmas Club; CO's............... 10 
team. During his final two

Prime Une or VISA Card......................... 10 ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS Card..................... 5 
years at Brother Rice, Walsh garnered all-county, all-area and Scholar Athlete of the Year 
honors.

Fro• APRIL 4, throap MAY 7, 1988-Drawlq held MAY 9, 1988 
GRAND PRIZE 
Women

Worldwide roundtrip airfare for two on any American Airlines route. PLUS-$300 ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS cash! 
Continued from page 20 
"We anticipate cuts, pass well, and look for each other on 

FIRST PRIZE -Weekend package trip for 2 to downtown Chicago. 
SECOND PRIZE -SchwtnnrM 10 speed bike. 
the court," said Rochelle THIRD PRIZE -Golf clubs. 
Holder, a player on the winning team.

4 FOURTH PlACE WINNERS -Tennis Rackets 
The game was close until the 5 FIFI1I PlACE WINNERS -35mm Automatic Cameras 
end when Give Me took off. It was their toughest game so far. All airline. and travel packages are provided by 
The Educators beat Hoosier Hysteria 21-6 without the help

AmericanAirlines and :i ~ 

In his four years at Notre Dame, Walsh has left his mark on the varsity tennis program. He is currently the third­seeded singles player for the Irish and teams with classmate Paul Daggs at the number­three doubles position. In addi­tion, he was a preseason nominee for academic All­American. Bayliss credits Walsh with helping his own transition into the Irish pro­gram. 
"Dan is an easy guy to get along with," Bayliss said. "Coming in as a new coach, I was unsure about how things would go, particularly with the seniors. But Dan is a good rep­resentative of Notre Dame, and he is a great competitor. 
"He's been one of our biggest winners. When he's on, he's pretty tough to beat. He'll hit winners from anywhere on the court. He doesn't seem to get rattled; he looks forward to the big matches." 
For his part, Walsh admits that it was difficult at first to adjust to the different style of a new coach. However, through his role as captain, Walsh has done a great deal in the way of shortening the gap between players and coach. 
"I'm the go-between between the players and coach Bayliss," says Walsh. "If they (the players) have a problem or a question and they don't want to take it to coach di­rectly, they tell me. Then, I usually bring it up at a team meeting." 
Despite all of his achieve­ments, Walsh is able to keep his success in its proper per­spective. Complacency has never been a problem for the 6-0 senior. 
"There are a lot of players in our program who are capa­ble of playing that don't play," Walsh said. "That just keeps pushing you. They've gotten stronger since I've been here, and that's been a big change. Just having so many people who can play pushes you to be better or you're not going to play." 
This perpetual drive to im­prove himself has given Walsh an edge over many of his oppo­nents which is not immediately apparent. 
"As a player, I think I've be­come mentally tougher," Walsh said. "Now, I can win a lot of matches just on experi­ence, even if the other guy's a little bit better talent-wise." 
of their varsity player, LaVetta Willis. High scorer Francine Kelley had the hustle to keep the team going. 
We Won Inter-Hall won easily over Boxer Club 21-7, while Stubbe Shooters lost to Yurtles and Turtles 21-15. 
Victor Sefuentes and Four Other Members of the Bar beat The Whatnots 21-9. 
The round of eight begins today at 4 p.m. at Stepan Courts. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRIIIIICIIIG AIIID DRIVING.
LaFortune Banking Center 237-54ND 
FUU SERVICE BANKING HOURS: Monday-Friday lOam· 7pm; Saturday lOam -lpm 
•All traneactlons except balance Inquiries qualify. No purchase necessary. Official rules and entry blanb are available at Lafortune Banking Center omce. 
01188 Truatcorp Bank, South Bend MEMBER FDIC 

page 16 The Observer Friday, April 22, 1988 
Pitching problems continue as Irish lose 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team could not find a cure to its recent pitching woes Thursday night at Coveleski Stadium, as the Irish fell 10-5 to IUPUI. 
Notre Dame has given up 10 runs or more in each of its last five games. The Irish (23-18) next go to Michigan State for a doubleheader on Saturday at 1 
p.m. before returning to Jake Kline Field for a twinbill with Illinois-Chicago on Sundayat 1 p.m. 
"I'm worried that since we're winning at a better clip than previous years, we've won 23 games and we've clinched a (MCC) playoff berth, we might be getting a little too com­placent," said first-year Irish coach Pat Murphy. "That worries me." 
IUPUI took control of the game by scoring four runs in the third inning and four runs in the fourth. Notre Dame sandwiched that onslaught with two runs in its half of the third, so IUPUI led 8-2 after four innings. 
"Our pitchers are getting ahead in the count, and then they don't know how to make pitchers' pitches," said Murphy. "Late in the year, when the hitters have caught up with the pitchers, you need 

Orioles lose 15th 
Associated Press Milwaukee has now beaten MILWAUKEE B lt' the Orioles in 20 of the teams' 
. -a Imore last 23 meetings
contmued to struggle on baseball's skid row Thursday Red Sox 12, Tigers 3 as the Milwaukee Brewers scored six runs in the third in­Ellis Burks had four hits and ning and sent the Orioles to a four RBis, Spike Owen hit a major league-record 15th two-run homer, and rookie straight season-opening loss Steve Ellsworth scattered six with a 7-1 victory. hits over seven innings as the 
Bill Schroeder's two-run Boston Red Sox beat the homer capped the six-run Mil­Detroit Tigers 12-3 Thursday.
waukee third off Baltimore Burks, who drove in three loser Scott McGregor, who runs with a bases-loaded triple, lasted just 2 2-3 innings, as the also scored four times. Owen Orioles' added another loss to and Rick Cerone had three hits their improbable beginning. apiece in support of Ellsworth,
The Orioles broke the major 1-2, who walked one and didn't league record with their 14th strike out a batter before giving 
straight loss Wednesday night up a leadoff homer to Matt and continued the streak as Nokes in the seventh innmg. lt 
their starting pitching failed was Nokes' fourth. once again. The previous mark of 13 losses to start a season was set by the 1904 Washington Senator and 1920 Detroit Tigers. 
Baltimore starters Mark Thurmond, Mike Boddicker and McGregor lasted a com­bined nine innings in the three games and gave up 18 hits and 18 runs to the Brewers, who have won five straight after en­ding a seven-game losing streak. 
Paul Molitor singled to right to begin the third, moved to second as Robin Yount reached on an infield hit and scored on Glenn Braggs' broken-bat single to center. 
Rob Deer doubled in Yount, and Greg Brock gave the Brewers a 4-0 lead with a ground ball double down the first base line, scoring Braggs and Deer_ 
After Joey Meyer grounded out, Schroeder sent his first 
homer of the season over the fence in left and reliever Os­waldo Peraza replaced McGregor, 0-3. McGregor, who gave up six hits and six runs, has not won a game since May 16, 1987. 

to work on your location. We're not that talented in pitching, and we have to be smart pitchers. Right now we're throwing too many right across 
the plate." 
Notre Dame had its share of chances. The Irish had its first two batters reach base on walks in both the first and second innings, but they failed to come away with any runs. Notre Dame left a game total of 12 runners on base. 
Brian Piotrowicz, in relief of losing Irish starter Erik Mad­sen (6-3), allowed just two un­earned runs in 4 2t3 innings of work, but the Irish hitters could not mount any kind of com­eback. 
IUPUI scored two runs in the eighth, and Notre Dame scored three in the bottom of the eighth to close the scoring at 10-5. 
"They (IUPUI) beat Indiana State last night," Murphy said after the Irish loss. "A lot of people don't know who they are, but they're a pretty good team." 
Having lost five of their last eight games, the Irish now await perhaps their toughest two games of the season. Mic­higan State holds a 24-10 record (9-5 in the Big 10), and the Spar­tans only recently exited the Top 20. 
Notre Dame has lost 18 con­secutive games against Big 10 opposition, and Michigan State 

swept a doubleheader from the 
Irish last year at Jake Kline 
Field. The Spartans won two of 
three games from Miami 
(Fla.) early this season, and 
they also sport a 6-2 record 
against Purdue and Northwes­
tern this year. Both the Boilers 
and Wildcats have defeated 
Notre Dame this year. 
"We'll have to have our best 
effort of the year to beat Mic­
higan State," said Murphy. 
"They're an established pro­
gram, and we've hit a down 
note right now." 
EXTRA BASES-Pat 
Pesavento's stolen base in the 
first inning set a new Notre 
Dame single-season mark. The 
senior shortstop has stolen 21 
bases in 29 attempts ... Dan Pel­
tier missed Tuesday's loss to 
Western Michigan with a case 
of the flu. It signified the first 
game and first inning the soph­
omore had missed since he 
began his Notre Dame playing 
career ... Craig Pavlina is 5-for­
10 on pinch-hitting attempts 
this season with one walk and 
five runs batted in... Michigan 
State holds a 61-28 lead in its 
all-time, series with Notre 
Dame. 
IUPUI 004 400 020 -1013 3 Notre Dame 002 000 030 -5 8 5 
~elf Schabel, Troy Anderson (7) and Jon Baumel, Jerry Dukes (7); Erik Madsen, Brian Piotrowicz (4), Kevin Chenail (9) and Ed Lund, Dave Yawman (9). W-Schabel (4-1) L-Madsen (6-3) 
straight 
Angels 11, Mariners 6 
Johnny Ray drove in six runs and he and Bob Boone went 4­for-4 Thursday night, leading the California Angels to an 11-6 victory over the Seattle Mariners. 
Ray's two-run double off Billy Swift in the third inning, following Boone's single and Dick Schofield's double, gave California 2-0 lead. He also had a two-run single in the sixth and another two-run double in the eighth. 
The Angels made it 3-0 in the fourth when Bill Buckner and Jack Howell led off with singles. Buckner was thrown out at home on Devon White's grounder but Boone followed with a single to score Howell. 

Tonight:
.JJTHE GROOVE 
and 

CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 
2 campus favorites start at 9:45 
Saturday: OJ and dancing 

can eat food bar ­

Pat Pesavento and the Irish baseball team lost to IUPUI 10-5 Thursday. Notre Dame travels to Michigan State Saturday and hosts Illinois-Chicago Sunday at Jake Kline Field. 
City-Wide Liquors 
(Discount Liquor, Beer, Wine) 
Busch

~~~~~t$699 
$699
24 cans 
_J 



24 16 oz. cans equals 32 12 oz. beers 
Little Kings Milwaukee 1851 24 7 oz. btls. 24 cans $4.99 $5.39 
Returnables Michelob 
Bud 24 btls. $8.38 24 btls. $9.99 Bud Light 24 btls. $8.38
Kegs Little Kings 15.6 gals. $28.99 Busch 15.6 gals. $28.99 
i C~nadian $ ! Kamchatka $
79 99

I M1st 1 O ~ 7
Vodka 

~ ;;l~d~phia__ $899 ,;.;;~:>1299 
Scoresby Scotch us_____________________ $11 99 

Friday, April 22, 1988 
The Observer 
Women's Bookstore 
We Won lnterhall 
Boxer Club e Won Interhall 
STl~o----..., 
ST 2a-----tST 2 5:00 
ST 1 

4:00 12:00 


I
Top-notch talent missing 1n 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Leigh Stein­berg, who represents some of the NFL's top players, is taking it easy this year, although he still has two players who will probably be picked in the top 15 in Sunday's draft. 
"I consider Brian Boitano my prime first-rounder," he says. 
If you listen to some scouts, Boitano, a Steinberg client who is headed for a professional ice skating career, might be a bet­ter NFL prospect than some of the football players out there. 
In fact, there's rarely been so much moaning and groaning as there has been about this year's NFL draft, which will take place Sunday beginning at noon, EDT. 
Some player personnel people consider it the worst draft of the decade and perhaps the worst ever. Some claim there are no more than 12 to 15 actual first-rounders available and one team gives only 112 players "make it" grades, less than half the 250 rookies who normally make NFL teams in 

Start your research career with Northwestern University's Medical School aa a member of our prestigious and dedicated research staff. Your Involve­ment and challenge can start with research opportunities available in the areas of: 
• 
Mlcrolmmunologr • lndoorlnologr 

• 
lntectloue Dlee••e • Allergy 

• 
ltlltholotr • lurgerr 

• 
Molecul•r •lologr • Medicine 


Successful candidates will have Bachelor's or Master's degrees in the biological sciences, with emphasis on independent lab research Must possess a thorough knowledge of tissue & cell culture, microbiology and biochemistry techniques. Small laboratory animal handling experience helpful Proven academic achievement is also required 
Northwestern University offers a very competitive starting salary and com­prehensive benefits package, including dental insurance and 3 weeks pa1d vacation your first year For immediate consideration, please contact your department chairperson or campus placement office, or send resume. which must1nclude transcripts and two faculty references. to 
Northwestern University 
Personnel Department, Chicago Campus 339 E. Chicago Avenue, Room 119 Chicago, ll 60611 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 


a normal year. 
Perhaps. 
Linebacker Aundray Bruce of Auburn, who has already signed with the Atlanta Fal­cons, isn't considered as good a prospect as the top pi~ks of the last three drafts bruce Smith, Bo Jackson and Vinny Testa verde. 
And even the top seven or eight players are considered flawed in some fashion. 
For example, there are worries about Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown's hands; Craig "Ironhead" Heyward's 
NFL draft 
weight; a high school neck in­jury suffered by Florida safety Bennie Blades; how quickly Nebraska defensive end Neil Smith will learn. 
But Karl Mecklenburg, Deron Cherry, Mark Clayton, Richard Dent, Joe Jacoby, Jim Burt and several dozen other Pro Bowl-caliber players wouldn't be playing in the NFL if pre-draft ratings always stood up. All were taken in the eighth round or lower and Jacoby, Burt and Cherry were never drafted. 
Sutton pars out 
to lead 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Hal Sutton saved par on the final hole, and with it preserved a 65 and a one­shot lead Thursday after the first round of the USF&G clas­sic. 
"That was the only time I got in trouble all day long," said Sutton, who played without a bogey in his 7-under-par effort. 
"It was a real solid round, and it could have been lower," said Sutton, who twice missed birdie putts of five feet or less. 
"I missed those two short ones, but I made a couple of long ones, so I guess it evens out." 
Sutton, a non-winner for al­most two years, hooked into the trees on the ninth hole. 
"I didn't have much of a shot at all," he said. He had to hook 
classic 

a 5-iron around the trees and caught a greenside bunker_ Sutton got it up and down from the sand, making a 5-foot putt to stay one in front of Tom Byrum. 
Byrum, not yet a winner in three years of PGA tour activ­ity, used some long-range put­ting and a fast finish for his best round of the year, a 66. 
He was even par through 10 holes, then birdied six of the last eight. Two of them came on putts from off the green, from about 20 and 25 feet, and Byrum dropped still another from about 25 feet. 
Veteran Lanny Wadkins, a winner in Hawaii earlier this vear, birdied three of his last tour holes for a 67. 
"I probably got the most I could out of it," Wadkins said. 
Fights mar eastern 
Associated Press 
Finesse appears on the way out and fists on the way in, at least in the eastern half of the NHL playoffs. 
"We're not going to be head­hunters, but as I've said before, you don't go to war with pea­shooters. We're going to have to reinforce our gloves with some extra padding when we go to Boston," Montreal coach Jean Perron said after Boston beat the Canadiens 4-3 to even their Stanley Cup quarter-final series at 1-1 Wednesday night. 
Montreal also lost 50-goal scorer Stephane Richer, who suffered a broken right thumb when he was slashed by Bos· ton's Michael Thelven. 
The same rule seems to apply to the Washington-New Jersey series, which is also tied 1-1. The Devils evened it by beating the Capitals 5-2 in a fight-filled game uncharacteristic for those two teams. 
The NHL playoffs continued Thursday night with the CampbeH Conference semi­finals. 
Detroit goalie Greg Stefan earned his first playoff shutout and Peter Klima scored three goals as the Red Wings beat the St. Louis Blues 6-0 and took a 2-0 lead in the best-of -seven Norris Division finals. 
Edmonton, leading 1-0 in its Smythe Division Series, was at Calgary in a late start. 
The Devils-Capitals game was interrupted at the 3:31 mark of the second period by a brawl involving three sepa­rate fights that held up the game 1~ minutes~ Four players were eJected New Jersey's Tom Kurvers and Perry Ander­son and Washington's Ed Kas­telic and Yvon CorrivP.:n1. "I'm not going to divulge our 
page 17 

j 
Pacers control destiny 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The In­diana Pacers' season is down to two crucial games, and their chances of making the NBA playoffs for the second year in a row likely won't be decided until Saturday night in the final game against the New York Knicks. 
If the Pacers win, they're in; if they lose, they're out. It's that simple. 
"It doesn't guarantee us 

anything, but it helps our sit­uation," Coach Jack Ramsay said of Wednesday night's vic­tory at Atlanta, a 116-98 tri­umph that lifted the Pacers into a three-way tie with the Knicks and the Washington Bullets for the final two Eastern Confer­ence playoff positions. 
Indiana plays at Detroit Friday night and finishes at home against the Knicks the following night in Market Square Arena. Washington's remaining schedule included games against Detroit Thursday night and Atlanta on Saturday. The Knicks play at Milwaukee on Friday before the final game at Indiana on Saturday. 
If the Pacers beat New York 

and end in a two-way tie with 
Washington, the Bullets would 
get the seventh playoff spot and 
Indiana would get the eighth 
playoff position because of 
Washington's 4-2 season series 
advantage over the Pacers. 
Indiana would then have to 

play Eastern Conference 
champion Boston in the best-of­
five first round of playoffs. If 
the Pacers finish ahead of the 
Bullets, they would face 
second-place Detroit in the 
opening round. 
But Saturday night's game is of more immediate concern, since a loss to New York would give the Knicks a 3-2 season ad­vantage over the Pacers. 
"We've been getting a lot of chances with other teams losing," center Steve Stipanovich said of the Pacers' playoff hopes in the final week of the season. Beating Atlanta "was the first time we capi­talized on it." 
playoffs 

plans right now," he sa1d. "We've got to think of a couple of options." 
The series shifts to New Jer­sey for a game Friday night, giving the Devils the home ir<> advantage in their series. 
Boston, which has lost 18 se­ries to Montreal dating back to 1943, also now owns the home advantage. The two teams also play Friday night in a game that figures to leave a lot of scars on the smaller ice of the Boston Garden. 
As in the Langway incident, Montreal is sending videotapes of the Thelven-Richer incident to the league office. Thelven claims he is innocent of wrongdoing and was just trying to lift Richer's stick when the injury occurred. It is the same thumb the Montreal winger in­jured late in the season and missed five games because of it. 
----~--------~------~------~----~­
-----~­

page 18 The Observer Friday, April 22, 1988 
Cubs beat Expos with hot hitting 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO-Vance Law ex­tended his hitting streak to 14 games with a two-run homer, and Andre Dawson hit a home run and a sacrifice fly Thursday, leading Greg Mad­dux and the Chicago Cubs to a 6-2 victory over the Montreal Expos. 
That ended the Cubs' four­game losing streak and the Ex­pos' five-game winning streak. 
Law's homer, his second of the season, capped a three-run sixth and came off loser Bryn Smith, 0-1. Maddux, 3-1, gave up eight hits but was backed by four double plays. He walked three and struck out four. 
Reds 7, Giants 6 

Jeff Treadway tripled home Nick Esasky with none out in the 12th inning Thursday, giving the Cincinnati Reds a 7-6 victory over the San Francisco Giants. 
Esasky, who homered in the third, opened the 12th inning wjth a single off Joe Price, 0-1. 
Treadway, the next batter, lined a ball that caromed off the right field wall as Esasky scored easily. 
The Reds have played six extra-inning games out of 16, winning three. 
Astros 8, Braves 0 

Bob Knepper and Ernie 
Camacho combined on a six­
hitter and Denny Walling had 
three hits and drove in two runs 
Thursday night as the Houston 
Astros beat the Atlanta Braves 
8-0. 

The Braves, shut out by 
Houston's Mike Scott on Wed­
nesday night, have not scored 
in 19 innings. Atlanta has been 
shut out four times this season. 
Kopper, 2-0, gave up five hits 
in six innings. He struck out 
three and walked two. 
Camacho finished up for his 
first save. 

Alan Ashby hit a two-run 
double and Walling followed 
with an RBI single for a 3-0 lead 
in the fourth against Kevin Cof­
fman, 0-2. 

In a big move earlier this week, freshman Ricky Watters switched from tailback to flanker. Junior Mark Green, moved to flanker at the beginning of spring workouts, took over duties at the tall-

Spring 
Continued from page 20 
Receivers -Freshman Ricky 
Watters will be tested at 
flanker for the Gold squad, a 
position at which he has no col­
lege experience. Watters will 
be backed up by Pat Eilers, a 
converted strong safety who 
has been a consistent receiver 
this spring. 
At split end is 6-2 freshman 

Bobby Carpenter, who has 
looked promising with the No. 
1 offense. Freshman Frank 
Jacobs, a 6-5, 234-pounder who 
will see plenty of time in the 
fall, starts at tight end for the 
Gold. 
Aaron Robb has the flanker 

chores for the Blue team. Robb 
has worked with the second 
team for most of the spring, 
and is backed up by James Dil­
lard. 
At split end for the Blue is another promising freshman, Pierre Martin, who turned in the most spectacular catch of the spring two weeks ago when he was knocked into an aerial somersault by a D'Juan Fran­cisco hit. Steve Alaniz and walk-on Patrick Fallon also will see time at split end for the Blue. 
Mike Brennan, a 6-5 junior. will play tight end for the Blue team. 
Offensive Line -This has been the trouble spot all spring for Holtz' squad, which lost four fifth-year seniors from last season. The defense took ad­Rausch (6-6, 244) and Joe Allen (6-5, 272) at tackle, Winston Sandri (6-4, 247) and Tim Grun­hard (6-3, 283) at guard and Mike Heldt (6-4, 265) snapping the ball. The reserves include Marty Lippincott, Chuck Kil­lian, Mike Harazin and Shawn Anderson. 
DEFENSE 
Defensive Line -The defen­
sive line has had less trouble 
than its offensive counterpart 
finding replacements for its 
graduating seniors, but there 
will be positions to be won once 
fall workouts begin. 

Returning starter Tom Gor­man (6-6, 258) lines up at one tackle on the Blue defense, while freshman George Mar­shall (6-3, 240), who has made some big plays this spring, starts at the other tackle spot. Fellow freshman Brian Shan­non, who sat out the fall season with a leg injury, backs up Marshall. Steve Roddy (6-2, 
237) fills the middle for the Blue, with Michael Crounse (6­2, 266) waiting in the wings. 
A pair of sophomores start at defensive tackle for the Gold. Bryan Flannery (6-3, 249) and Jeff Aim (6-6, 248) have been pleasant surprises this spring, and will be given an occasional breather tomorrow by Bob Dahl and Mike Callan. At noseguard is George Williams (6-4, 285), who played in seven games last season and will be an important factor on the Irish defense in 1988. 
ing senior Darrell "Flash" Gordon and freshman Scott Kowalkowski at the outside 
linebacker positions. 
'£& "D ttl< DRtN k ° ·'' l _
The Gold squad will go with 
-' 1 0 • a returning senior who also has 
;£
"~ 

1

been working with the first 
1 

team (along with Gordon) in 
\ Frank Starns at one defensive 
A_ 

<"£{: DIC,I( liAMl.• 1\f'end. Freshman Andre Jones, 
Jl D(IVf / vmw who has shown great quickness 
~-Dt11 b and some solid hitting this spring, will start at outside ~ Don't drink and drive 
linebacker along with Starns .=iiiilii~F=;:::=!!::=:=:!!=:=::!f::;:=:!!::;:=~~=~piil!!,
for the Gold. They will be 11 
vantage of the inexperience up front on offense and dominated most of the spring scrim­mages. With an already inex­perienced line divided into two units for tomorrow's game, the quarterbacks might have to be extra alert. 
The starters on the Blue line include converted tight end Andy Heck (6-6, 246 pounds) and Dean Brown (6-2, 283) at tackle, Ted Healy (6-4, 263) and returning starter Jeff Pearson (6-2, 254) at guard and Tim Ryan (6-4, 240) at center. Also in the trenches for the Blue unit will be Dave Prinzivalli, Norm Balentine, Ryan Mihalko, Jim Kinsherf and Darryl Wodecki. 
The Gol<i starters are Peter 

Linebackers -Perhaps the most reliable position for the Irish is inside linebacker, where both 6-5 junior Wes Pritchett and sophomore Mike Stonebreaker will play for the Blue team. Pritchett and Stonebreaker are two of the top three inside backers entering the fall, and will be helped out by Greg Hudson. 
Junior Ned Bolcar led the Irish in tackles with 106 last season, and lines up with fresh­man Donn Grimm at inside linebacker for the Gold team. They will be replaced by Joe Farrell and Scott Bufton. 
The Blue team boasts return­defense this April. Starting at strong safety for the Blue is freshman Greg Davis. Round­ing out the Blue secondary are cornerback Jerry Bodine and safeties Doug DiOrio and Rich Earley. 
Junior strong safety George Streeter anchors the Gold de­fensive backfield, while con­verted split end Pat Terrell gets the starting nod at free safety. The cornerbacks will be speedy freshman Todd Lyght and junior Bob Satterfield. Reserves include safeties Marc Dobbins and David Jandric, and corners Dan McDevitt, Mike McLoone and Rick Pur­cell. 
Special Teams -All spots are up for grabs in the punting and placekicking departments, and Holtz will certainly be keeping his eye on how the kickers per­form tomorrow in a game sit­uation. 
Jim Sexton and Pete Hartweger will punt for the Blue, while Sean Connor will handle the punting chores for the Gold. 
Reggie Ho and David Neidell tee the ball up for the Blue squad, while Billy Hackett will try the field goals for the Gold team. 

backed up by sophomore Kevin McShane. 
Secondary -The Blue squad has three possible Irish starters in the defensive back­field. Junior Corny Southall, a steady field general, calls the defensive signals at free safety. At the corners are D'Juan Francisco and Stan uu•LC•6 ,,...., both of whom have 

with the No. 1 
IllALUMNI ~i.!ai<;;:::~~~"-"''li. · 
SENIOR~.;,;..~~~~'!). 
~CLUB 
HEY,, 
W.kr< cfkMd ~ 
~-~ S{OU 
aX PECESS //.' 
SATURDAY 
Ml LLER GENUINE DRAFT 
75~ 

PEACH DACQUIRIS 75¢ 
[f@IT @ @M ~~® 
Call Julie 
& 

Melissa 
#3433 

Friday, April 22, 1988 The Observer page 19 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
ACROSS

Friday 
1 Ages 5 Herbage
1: 15 p.m.: IAPL special sessions. Gadamer's Aesthetics, Room 206 CCE; 
10 Under
Adorno's Aesthetics, Room 100-104 CCE; Politics, Culture and Writing in Latin 
nautically

America, Room 112-114 CCE; The Aesthetics of the Holocaust, Room 202 CCE; 
14 Dunderhead 
15 Lorelei 16 Branches
Language, Politics, Philosophy, CCE Auditorium. 
3 p.m.: SMC Softball vs. ND, SMC Softball Diamond. 
17 Predicament
4 p.m.: College Fellow's event, "Whistle In The Dark." Bus departs from main 
18 Lineages
circle. 
20 "Peter Pan" 
pirate 21 Hogshead
4 p.m.: Physics colloquium, "Positron Emission Tomography: Window into 
the Human Mind," by Dr. Richard Hichwa, University of Michigan, Room 118 
22 Singer Lena
Nieuwland. 
23 Bid aloha to 
4:30p.m.: Biological sciences seminar, "Calcium Regulation During Contrac­
25 Sauce type 
26 Of bees 28 Certain 
tion -Relaxation in Smooth Muscle," by Dr. Kaushik D. Meisheri, Upjohn Com­
pany, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences. 
captive

4:30p.m.: IAPL plenary session, "The Role of Redemptive Criticism in Legal 
30 Eight: pref.
Interpretation," by Drucilla Corness, Univeristy of Pennsylvania. Respondent: 
34 Rugged hills 
35 To be sung
Herman Rapaport, University of Iowa, CCE Auditorium. 
37 Chemist's place 
7: 15 &9: 30 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Aliens," 
Annenberg Auditorium. 
38 Ease of
8 p.m.: SMC Performing Arts Series, The Kronos Quartet, O'Laughlin 
movement 

41 Common abbr . 8 p.m.: IAPL plenary session, "The Unknown Masterpiece: Lukacs' Heidelberg 42 Bridge seats 
Auditorium. 
43 Bleaching vats
Aesthetics," by Agnes Heller, New School for Social Research. Respondent: 
44 Sow
Fabio Dasilva, ND, CCE Auditorium. 46 -In the bag! 7 Hemlcycles 47 Items for 37A 8 Search for 
Saturday 48 Manage 9 Elders: abbr. 50 Musical 10 Ravine 
1:30 p.m.: Blue-Gold game. composition 11 Mole's hole 52 Situate 12 Presage 55 Electric 13 Sage
Sunday catfish 19 Even If for 57 Peruse short 60 VIsage 24 Follow
11 a.m.: Tennis vs. Wisconsin, Courtney Courts. 
62 -breve 25 Use a mop
Noon: "Human Rights in the Arab Countries," by Nazih Y. Daher, Language 
63 Seckel 26 Pinnacles 
Department, Room 110 Law School. 64 Cut short 27 Repeat Idly 
3 p.m.: SMC department of music student recital, Kelli Finn, soprano, Little 65 Abound 28 Anchorages 66 Pangolin's 29 Edible
Theatre. 
tidbits tubers

3:30 p.m.: Department of music concert, ND Brass Quintet and Brass En­
67 Claret and 31 Patronages
semble, Washington Hall. port 32 Czech 4 p.m.: Career and Placement Services presents "Small Business and 68 Doctrines mountains 

Entrepreneurial Opportunities Workshop," Mr. Dell Lucas and Ms. Marilyn Bury, 
DOWN

Foster Room, LaFortune. 
1 Eng. letters

4:30p.m.: Irish Guard meeting, Band Room, Washington Hall. 2 Storage place7:30p.m.: Graham Chapman Performance, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Tickets: 3 Homage 
$5 students, $10 others. 4 Guidance 
5 Cake topping
8 p.m.: "On The Verge," by Eric Overmyer, Haggar College Center Parlor. 
6 Attack 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
60PKNOIV5, 
I 1/Pmff... .IM5e 7HI1T'51T~ I ClfeK/5H 
CAN 61~ II HECK OF fJt..ACK f'€()fl£. II 56/?MON ... 1/NP 
I 
!/Mrf:oNAf,

IE RHYMU ~U~. 
\ rEt\ 
,.......~ ~--­
~ 
It 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

33 Bottomless pit 
35 Garment 
36 Compare 
39 Idle 
40 Intelligentsia 
45 Laundromat units 
Far Side 

49 Ms Hagen 50 Mother-of­peai1 51 "Golden Boy" playwright 
52 Father 
53 Kind of tournament 54 Gaiter 55 Nobel 
physicist 56 Shortly 58 Turil. flag 59 Water 
barriers 61 Crude 
Gary Larson 



...... 


04/22/88 


Sports 

Blue-Gold signals end to spring of changes 
By MARTY STRASEN which marks the end of spring watch the contest without inter­team all spring, and tomorrow pound sophomore Anthony Sports Editor workouts. fering with either side. Tony Rice and Kent Graham Johnson, another probable Mark Green will line up at "It's important after a long, face each other in different uni­starter, with Ted McNamara 
Time is running out for tailback for the Blue squad, hard spring to end it all on a forms. The fleet-footed Rice, a serving as his replacement. making more of those position after spending most of the fun note and give the players a sophomore, calls the signals For the Gold, freshman Tony changes which have grabbed spring in Tim Brown's vacant chance to compete," Holtz for the Blue, while the fresh­Brooks will try to continue much of the attention in this flanker slot. said. "It should be fun to man Graham will aim for the what has been a very impres­year's 20-session spring foot­Ricky Watters now is a watch." Gold squad's receivers from sive spring at tailback. Brooks ball season. flanker for the Gold team and The game is sponsored by the the pock~t. Rice is backed up gained 262 yards in the fall and 
for the Irish, after spending his Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph by Pete Graham, while Steve has shown some nifty moves freshman year to this point as Valley and proceeds will bene­Belles will get some time for and strong legs in spring
SPRittCi 

a tailback and gaining 373 fit that organization's scholar­the Gold. workouts. Behind Brooks is yards on 69 carries in the fall. ship fund. Notre Dame and walk-on Antwon Lark.
FOOTBALL Both of those changes were Saint Mary's students receive Running Backs-Mark Green, Sophomore Braxston Banks, made by Holtz and his staff ear­free admission upon presenta­Notre Dame's leading rusher who spent some time at tail­lier this week. tion of a student ID. last season with 861 yards, is back early in the spring, starts 
The rosters for the two Here's how the squads look back at tailback and will lead at fullback for the Gold. Banks 
But that has not stopped Irish squads also were drafted ear­at each position: the Blue team. Green has been is backed up by Joe Jarosz, who head coach Lou Holtz from lier in the week, with Jim snaring passes most of the has made some impressive making two important last­Strong coaching the Gold and OFFENSE spring, but also has rushed gains on the No. 3 offense. minute moves before Satur­Pete Cordelli at the Blue helm. from the wishbone formation day's 58th annual Blue-Gold Holtz and defensive coordina­Quarterbacks They've and should not be rusty. game (1:30 p.m. ES'DCDT), tor Barry Alvarez plan to battled for time with the No. 1 At fullback for the Blue is 220-See SPRING, page 18 
Women's tourney shrinks to eight 
By JANE SHEA tournament because every team had forfeited to them,
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
beat Just Can't Get Enough 21­
Fast action continued 16. Thursday on the courts of Saint The score was close through­Mary's as Women's Bookstore out the game but Kukla Fran 
Basketball narrowed down to and Ollie managed to pull it off eight teams. with its quickness and rebound­
f 
! 
I I I 
I 
~ 
. 

ing skill. Three members of the team made it to the final eight last year. 
Shots at the Bar shot by Pen­thouse Playmates II 21-8. All 
Sparky's Franchise blew by members of the winning team Supreme Court 21-5 with the attend Notre Dame Law School leadership of previous Notre and played in the women's Dame varsity basketball league at the school this year. players Kathy Brommeland Good passing and fast breaks and Ellen Mouch. added to Shots ability to work 
The strong defense and con­as a team. sistent shooting on the part of Give Me Your Address beat Sparky's Franchise gave them Almond Joy 21-11. Sandy Bot­the advantage over Supreme ham, a co-MVP of Notre Court. The winners got off to a Dame's varsity basketball 
The Observer I Michael Moran

fast start and kept control team, led the team in points throughout the game. and rebounds. Only eight teams remain In the Women's played today at Stepan Courts with the semi-finals Kukla Fran and Ollie, who Bookstore Basketball Tournament after and finals slated for this weekend. Jane Shea has had not played a game in the See WOMEN, page 15 Thursday's games. The round of eight will be all of the details at the left. 
•

And this year's Bookstore winner IS. • • 

There are three things my Dad told title. No matter what happens on the 
me before I left for Notre Dame. courts today or over the weekend, 
One, no female deserves a dozen each player left in the 666-team tourn­
roses. Two, be good or at least be care­ament can be proud that he has gone 
ful. And three, never, no matter how this far. 658 teams are now on the out­
many times they put your picture on side looking in. 
the back page, never leave yourself But there can be only one winner, 
open to embarrassment by predicting and this column is about to tell you 
what will happen in Bookstore Bas-who that winner will probably, 
Brian O'Gara 
Bookstore Basketball XVII 

ketball. maybe, don't-put-much-money-on-it 
Last year in this same space I said be. some, well, stupid things. Like Party We'll begin with today's quarter­at Chips When We Repeat would do finals games. The opener on just that, Leone's Stallions wouldn't Bookstore court 10 (at 4:30 p.m.) is even reach the Final Four and Jimmy Tequila White Lightning vs. Who's the Greek's prognasticating job was Next. It just wouldn't be the Sweet 16 safe. I was insinuating that the Greek without Tequila, who has reached that did not need to worry about me taking round for six straight years. Why? Be­over his job because of my Bookstore cause the guys on this team play to­predictions, not realizing Jimmy the gether so well. Other teams may have 
Now-Unemployed would reveal his more talent, but Tequila's quint seems personal theory of genetics to the to know where everyone else is on the world of sports. court. This year's version has oppo-
This hoops-loving campus has al­. nents seeing double as the Nanni brot­ways been a bastion for pickup bas­hers, former Mr. Bookstore Lou and ketball, and the best it has to offer former Irish walk-on Chris, team upwill be on exhibition today, tomorrow on the perimeter. Their quickness and and on Sunday as the final eight teams vie for the Bookstore Basketball XVII See PICKS, page 14 
You'll forgive me if I'm a bit uneasy about putting this column in print. 
It was just a year ago that I went a combined 2-for-7 trying to pick Bookstore Basketball from the Elite Eight down to its completion. 
Well, I can't help but think that this year will be a little better. O'Gara beat me out last year (picking a to the wire, it'll simply be a matter of which gets neutralized more effective­ly: the outside shooting of Martin and Bill Sullivan (eight points last game) or the power game of Voce and Matt Dingens. I'm going with Martin's all-out intensity to carry a team that might not be as talented, but does what it has to to win. I'll Play by 3. 

Pete Skiko 

Bookstore Basketball XVII 
meager tcree out of seven correct), but after careful consideration of the remaining teams, I am ready to boldly unveil this year's Final Four, finalists, and champion of the tourney. 
Some interesting developments will unfold in today's quarterfinal matchups, and in my opinion the most intense of these will be the I'll Play, No I Won't-Adworks All Stars game. How could it not be with a potential Al Martin-Ricky Watters duel on the horizon. Martin's savvy and experi­ence matched against Watters' pure quickness and athleticism ... wow. 
You can bet Adworks will try to pound it inside to their big man as they've done in the past, and they have quite a big man in Gary Voce to do it with. In a game which should go down 
In another game that should prove to be a barnburner, I'll take Hahn's Funeral Home in overtime over Chip's Bar. This is another case where I like the experience of Bubba Cunningham at guard, who was in the Final Four of this tourney long before I got here, and underrated big man John McCabe, who'll muscle with anyone underneath. 
Granted, Chip's has an excellent ballclub (it's almost impossible not to with varsity football players Andy Heck, Steve Belles, and Aaron Robb on your team), but watch Derrick Johnson. The way Hahn's matches up with Chip's inside, as Johnson's shoot­ing goes so could go Chip's. 
See TEQUILA, page 14 



