Back In the fifties
IACCENT: Bitter 'Beetlejuice' again 
Mostly sunny and cool Tues­
day, high 45 to 50. Clear and 
cold Tuesday night, low 30 to

/VIEWPOINT: Respond to the Task Force 


VOL XXI, NO. 125 
TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Reagan defends military strikes on Iranian targets 
Associated Press no illusions about the cost of irresponsible behavior," 
WASHINGTON --President Reagan said. Reagan said Monday he or­"They must know that we dered military strikes against will protect our ships, and if Iranian targets because of "ir­they threaten us, they'll pay a responsible behavior" toward price," Reagan said. The pres­
U.S. ships, and served notice ident told his audience that "a that Tehran will "pay a price" more normal relationship with for such aggression in the Per­Iran is desirable --and we're sian Gulf. prepared for it." 
Defending attacks on Iranian But Reagan said that "such military platforms in the south­a relationship is not possible so ern gulf, Reagan said: "we aim long as Iran attacks neutral to deter further Iranian aggres­ships, threatens its neighbors, sion, not provoke it." He supports terrorism and refuses renewed the U.S. call for Iran to end the bloody war with to accept a United Nations Iraq." resolution demanding a cease­Besides destroying the two fire in the Iran-Iraq war. offshore Iranian oil platforms 
Reagan used an appearance used for military purposes, the before a business audience to U.S. Navy either sank or comment on U.S. reprisals for damaged four small Iranian the mining of the frigate USS gunboats and bombed two Samuel B. Roberts. His use of Iranian navy frigates that had force won bipartisan support fired missiles at U.S. planes. on Capitol Hill. Iran attacked oil facilities off 
"I have something in the na­Sharjah and fired on at least ture of a bulletin for you," he two U.S. vessels. told representatives of the As­No American injuries or 
The Observer I Stacy St. Germaine
sociated General Contractors fatalities were reported, but Power of the paletteorganization in the Old Execu­Defense Secretary Frank Car­Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's is the location of this of the art finals being held there. 
tive Office Building lucci Cobra
said a attack exhibit of student art by Joclene. The artwork is part 
auditorium. helicopter with two crewmen "Earlier today, our Navy aboard was late in returning to made a measured response to a Navy cruiser and that a 
ND student founds Notre Dame-Jane M.
Iran's latest use of military search had been mounted for force against U.S. ships in in­the aircraft. ternational waters as well as The National Association of 

Beres Memorial Fund for leukemia 
its continued military and ter­Arab Americans said in Wash­rorist attacks against a num­ington that it regretted the By JULIE RYAN sen. Beres died of leukemia this especially reminded me of my ber of nonbelligerents," News Staff year. family. It struck me as feeling Reagan said. Although she shares the close to him." 
"We've taken this action to see STRIKE, page 5 Notre Dame junior Tricia same last name with the Olym­When the Olympics were on 
make certain the Iranians have Jansen has undertaken a spe­pic athlete, the Jansens are not television, said Jansen, she cial project to benefit leukemia related. When she first heard watched for Dan Jansen in his research. Inspired by an occur­about Dan Jansen and his events.


Peace corps internship 
rence at the 1988 Winter Olym­sister, Jansen said she wanted Before he was about to race, pics, Jansen started the Notre to do something to help. the skater found out his sister

open to NO students 

Dame-Jane M. Beres Memorial "I heard about Dan in an in­just died, according to Jansen. 
Fund for leukemia research. terview a few weeks before the As a result, he fell twice during By JANET HEROLD ply and "we are hoping that The fund was established to Olympics," Jansen said. "We the race. News Staff people of all kinds will want to raise money in memory of Jane are both from Wisconsin, have 
do this," she said. M. Beres, the sister of U.S. the same last name, and both see FUND, page 5 
Notre Dame students are in­The student can select the se­Olympic speedskater Dan Jan-have large families. His family vited to compete for an intern­mester --summer, spring or ship in the Peace Corps, said 
fall--in which to participate 

Bands J·am at NO for cystic fibrosis
Kathleen Weigert of the Center upon applying for the intern-for Social Concerns. 

ship, Weigert said. B VICTOR CUCINIELLO tivities, Temeles said. schools on the procedures in­The semester-long intern­Experience living abroad is Y
News Staff None of the bands were paid volved in organizing a dance­
ship, sponsored by the Peace not necessary or required, said for performing, said Temeles, a-thon for cystic fibrosis,Corps and Campus Compact, a Weigert. The internship has Eight bands performed at but two professional bands, Temeles said. 

national public service consor­been designed for those stu­Stepan Center last Friday to Material Issue and Sergeant Temeles said he hopes all his tium, allows students to live dents "who have demonstrated raise money for those suffering Friday, were provided with efforts will give rise to a nation­and work with Peace Corps interest in community ser­from cystic fibrosis. Dave hotel arrangements and given wide movement to battle thestaff in Third World countries. vice," she said. 

Temeles, a sophomore from traveling expenses. diseal)e and raise money for re­Applications for the intern­Weigert said the internship is 
Dillon Hall, organized and search.
ship are presently available at "a reward for and a further in­coordinated the event which Currently, Temeles said, he

the Center for Social Concerns, tensification of it (community Cystic Fibrosis is a genetic
may have netted over $3500. is applying for club status. Hethe Peace Institute or at Assis­service) . '' said he plans to organize a disorder which affects the 
tant Dean Robert Waddick's of­The applications are due on Temeles' cousin who suffers dance-a-thon that will take body's ability to break down a fice, said Weigert. April2? by 5 p.m. to the Cente.r , from cystic fibrosis, motivated place at Notre Dame as well as thick gummy mucous which The internship "is open to for Social Concerns. The apph-him to direct his efforts toward at eight other universities. clogs a persons lungs and even­freshmen, sophomores and c~tions will be revi~wed imm.e-raising money for the disease. tually leads to death, Temeles juniors who are American diately by a sel~ctl?n co~mit-The benefit was made possi­During the summer, said. Fifty percent of the people citizens . . . who have the po­tee and th~ee fi!lahsts will be ble with the help from the spe­Temeles will participate in a afflicted with the disease live 
tential to live and work over­until the age of ~. with very
chosen, said Weigert. cial events department of Stu­conference called Goal Un­
seas," said Weigert. Students few living past thlrr twenties,
dent Government, along with limited, he said. The confer­
of all majors are eligible to ap-see CORPS, page 4 he said. 
financial help from Student Ac-ence will instruct 30 high 


Tuesday, April 19, 1988 
page 2 The Observer 





In Brief 

Bridget McGuire's sign was stolen late Saturday night, said Teresa Bauer, the bar's president. The sign, more than 12 feet across, served as the logo for "Bridget McGuire's Filling Station" at the intersection of Eddy Street and South Bend Avenue. Bauer, a Saint Mary's alumna, said she felt the sign must have been taken by "Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students because they're our main customers." The sign's disappearance is "amaz­ing because it's so big," she said, adding that the building will be redone over the summer. "It's pretty expensive and time consuming to make (the sign) and paint it," said Bauer. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
A Campus-wide blood drive will be held today through Thursday from 12:30-4 p.m. at the Knights of Co­lumbus Hall. Those who have not signed up may drop by and give blood. The event is sponsored by Circle K Club and the Knights of Columbus. -The Observer 
Juggler art submissions will be returned today from 4-4:30 p.m. on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center in the Juggler office. -The Observer 
Orientation for fall 1988 courses for the Hesburgh Program in Public Service will be today from 6-7 p.m. in Room 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
Room picks for Siegfried and Knott Halls will be held Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in the Office of Student Residences. A $20 hall tax is required to pick a room. -The Observer 
Another forum will be held to answer questions and hear responses regarding the residentiality and alcohol task force reports. The meetings will be held at 6:30p.m. at Pasquerilla West for Pasquerilla West and Pasquerilla East, and at 9 p.m. at Morrissey for Howard, Badin and Morrissey. -The Observer 
Senior trip registration takes place today in the West Point Room of LaFortune Student Center from 7-9 p.m. For details call Kathleen at 283-4220 or Theresa at 283-4071. 
-The Observer 

Those graduating in May that have obtained Student Loans must attend one of the two exit interviews: today from 7-9 p.m. or Thursday from 7-9 p.m. at Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Senior Month booklets will be distributed to off-campus seniors Wednesday and Thursday from noon to 2 p.m. at the information desk in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
The John F. Donnely Program in Participatory Management within the College of Business Administra­tion will be inaugurated today. Activities include a lecture by an Irish management consultant, Edmond Molloy, a specialist in organizational development from Tipperary. 
-The Observer 

"A Republic Madam, If You Can Keep It," is the title of a lecture to be presented by Professor Forrest McDonald of the University of Alabama's department of history. The lecture, co-sponsored by the department of history and the program of liberal studies, will be given on Wednesday at noon in Room 220 of the Law School. 
-The Observer 

''The Pushing of Alcohol Via Adver~ising'' will be the title of a lecture by Professor Jean Kilbourne to be given today at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
-The Observer 

"International Human Rights: A Comparative Analysis" will be the subject of a Tecture ~Y _David Li~, inaugurating the Joseph A. Matson deanshtp m law whtch he holds in the Law School. The talk will be today at 7 
p.m. in the Law School courtroom, with a reception fol­lowing. -The Observer 
Design Editor .................. Alison Cocks Copy Editor ................. Cindy Broderick Design Assistant .. .. ........... Kim Evans Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee Typesetters ..... John Rossmiller Viewpoint Layout ....... R. Aschenbrenner ............................................ Anne Ducey Accent Layout.. ....... Kathleen McCaffrey News Editor............. Kendra Lee Morrill 
ne 01111ner (USPS $99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& eum &Dd vacation periods. ne at.er.er is published by the studenu of the University of Notre Dame &Dd Saint Mary's CoUeae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2.5 per scmater) by writina ne OIMerwer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46$56. 
ne o..n. is • member or ne Mlodaled Pnu. All reproduction riahu are reserved. 
. Now for a completely different • • • attitude 
Let's face it. Monty Python's "Life of Brian" 

is disrespectful to traditional Catholic faith. Jim
And very sacrilegious. Offensive, perhaps? 
Maybe. Winkler 
But more than anything else, "Life of Brian" 

is funny. Day Chief I saw it this past weekend at Cushing ==~==~==~~~~~~~~~~ 


Auditorium for the zillionth time and it was -' funny again. On Friday, the Observer printed a letter from a reader who was offended that Notre Dame and-Or Saint Mary's would show the movie and allow Graham Chapman to "lecture" at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Poor guy. He missed a good movie and he'll probably miss a humorous lecture. All because he's blind. 
"Blessed are the cheesemakers!?!? Did he say cheesemakers?!?!. What's so special about cheesemakers??" 
"These words are not to be taken literally of 

course. He means the makers of all dairy prod­
ucts." 
Okay, maybe Monty Python humor is a little slapstick and off-beat.lf you don't like that type of humor, fine. What has me upset is that people take the content of ''Life of Brian'' too seriously. 
I don't intend to slam the poor soul who wrote that letter last week, but it really irks me when L---...J~L:===:...Em 
people don't~pen their eyes to the world around them. How weak is your faith in Christ that between the ultra-conservative forces of stal­watching "Life of Brian" will shake it? wart Catholicism and the liberal-minded bloc 
Take the movie for what it is. A humorous who profess an open society of free expression, • spoof on a historical event. Is it sacrilegious? free love and free sex. Somewhere in-between, I guess so. Does that make it evil? I should most of us try to avoid getting shot, keeping think not. our middle-of-the-road lifestyle. 
Notre Dame is a Catholic school. Saint Mary's "Life of Brian" seems to be a target of one is also. That doesn't mean that we have to live of these groups. What upsets me, usually an in a vacuum or bubble, ignoring anything that innocent bystander, is that these people take isn't dogma or doctrine. Notre Dame's charter their close-minded opinions and attempt to says that we are Catholic. It also says that we force-feed them to us, using Church doctrine as are a University open to a liberal exchange of justification for what they say and do. ideas. Perhaps we shouldn't allow students to take classes in Marxism. Mter all, Karl baby If they don't like "Life of Brian," or what did preach atheism. Is that not offensive to my Ron "The Gipper" Reagan has to say, that's Christian ears? their opinion. If they want to express dis­
We could always do away with movies entire­pleasure in The Observer or that Common Non­ly. Well, okay, we'll show movies like "The sense publication, that is their option. What they Greatest Story Ever Told" or "Jesus of can't do is tell me and anyone else who likes Nazareth." Maybe an occasional Disney flick Monty Python that we are living in sin, or that for old times' sake. Notre Dame is failing in its mission by allowing 
This is getting silly. My point in all of this movies like that to appear. If they don't like goes something like this: Relax --don't get up­Monty Python, they can save the two bucks and tight over things like "Life of Brian." They are go preach somewhere. meant to make people laugh. If you don't find Notre Dame has a mission that is not based it funny, don't laugh. If you find it offensive, on closing our eyes and ears to what some may stop, take a look at what you just saw on the construe as anti-Catholic thought. It strives to screen, and realize that it is all a joke. Don't open those sense gathering units so that we may take it seriously. understand what type of world we live in. 
Too often at Notre Dame, there is cross-fire "Always look on the bright side of life . .." 
FORD -TOYOTA -VOLVO

SObering
Advice .·· ~ 
~n~

alife , · --.---_ 
!.li 

PH: 259-1981 
-;~...­.. 
~ 

~~-~ilifp.J_
~ JEFFERSON & CEDAR-MISHAWAKA -~ 
Tuesday, April 19, 1988 

ND Senate, task force members discuss report! 
By JENNIFER GRONER News Staff 
Notre Dame Student Senators held a question-and­answer session with members of the task forces on residen­tiality and alcohol, while Senator Thomas Rask pre­sented a proposal to postpone enforcement of a bylaw during the senate meeting Monday night. 
The senate members spoke with Ann Firth, director of res­ident life and member of the task force on residentiality, and Steve Newton, coordinator of special projects at the Center for Social Concerns and mem­ber of the task force on alcohol, at the senate meeting Monday night. 
The-question-and-answer session was modeled after those sessions held in residence halls, according to Tom Doyle, student body president. 
The senate will debate the is­sues raised in the report and give their reaction at the next meeting, said Doyle. 
Rask, District 4 senator, pro­posed to postpone enforcement of Article II, Section VI, num­ber seven in the "Bylaws of the Undergraduate Constitution of the Student Government of the University of Notre Dame." 

The bylaw states: "Member­ship fees are required for all non-service organizations before they are eligible to receive student activity fun­ding." 
Many organizations were not aware of this new bylaw in time 
to implement dues before this year's budget considerations, according to Rask. The postponment would allow these organizations to wait until the 1988-89 academic year to col­lect membership fees without jeopardizing their funding, he said. 
The bylaw was passed by the previous senate to insure that organizations give an accurate count of their membership before they are given funding, Rask said. 
Each one had tonr<>.dil"f". Againandagain. the big test came, each athlete was ready. Strivingfor his personal best. 
That's how it is with •• sports. And that's how it is : withanotherformofcom­
ndardized 
n. students are able to the most, year after 
year. Fact is. Kaplan prepa­ration hashelpcdoverone 
lionstudentsonto the ~.jnsi<le track, giving them ""•'·'~"'-,,,.Ilis and confiden<:e 
tofinish strong. . lfyou'refacingtheSAT, 
•· ACT. GMAT, GRE, LSAT. MCAT, or professional tests like the BarorCPA exams. call StanleyH. Kaplan. These athletes had totrainto beat their com­petition. Maybe there'sa 


..,._.,.....,.~.;·•·;)esson initforyou. 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-413.5 
SIGN UP BEFORE YOU GO HOME TO RESERVE SPACE FOR YOUR FALL LSAT CLASS IN SOUTH BEND! 
INDrPENDENT SUMMER STUDY PROGRAMS! 

Open for business 
Two Saint Mary's students enjoy the weather and Saint Mary's library. Though there was a chill in the their studies on the recently opened terrace of the air the spirit of spring is still evident. 
Pro-choice coalition seeks to strip Roman Catholic Church of its tax-exempt status 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Roman Catholic Church's tax­exempt status gives it an unfair advantage in the political bat­tle over abortion rights, the Su­preme Court was told Monday. 
The court was urged by a "pro-choice" coalition to keep alive an 8-year-old lawsuit that seeks to strip the church of its tax exemption because of its anti·abortion lobbying. 
The suit is against the federal government, not the church. 
The justices are being asked to decide whether the suit can go forward --not whether the church's tax exemption should be revoked. A decision is ex­pected to be announced by July. 
If the suit against the govern­ment is kept alive, the church faces $100,000 a day in fines for its refusal to surrender docu­ments sought by those suing . 
Marshall Beil, a lawyer for 






CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS
:.::::·::::.;. 

pro-choice groups and individ­uals, said being free from paying taxes is a form of gov­ernment subsidy that "is skewing the political process" in the national debate over abortion. 
Only the courts "can create a remedy," he said. "The poli­tical process can't." 
Church officials and the Reagan administration urged the court to kill the lawsuit. 
Permitting such legal claims could "expose the government to untold suits by people inter­ested but not affected by the outcome" of federal regula­tion, said Justice Department lawyer Alan Horowitz. 
Several justices hinted that the case could be sent back to a federal appeals court for clarification of that court's views on the pro-choice coali­tion's legal standing to sue the government. 
Justice Byron White, in raising that possibility, said, 
"It  would  save  us  a  lot  of  
work."  
Chief  Justice  William  

Rehnquist suggested that the case is in "sort of a twilight zone" because the 2nd U.S. Cir­cuit Court of Appeals did not state clearly whether it believed the pro-choice coali­tion has the proper legal stand­ing to sue. 
The appeals court said last June that "there is at least a colorable basis for standing." 
IAMERICAN 
f~· 


The Observer page 
Palmer speaks on Reagan ideology 

By MIKE O'CONNELL 
News Staff 
John Palmer, former Assis­tant Secretary of Health and Social Programs, spoke on the social and economic changes of the Reagan Administration in a lecture Monday night at Hayes-Healy Center. 
Palmer's speech, "Beyond the Reagan Revolution," focused on the repercussions of a short-sighted political ideol­ogy combined with the "perva­sion of basic value conflicts in American society today," he said in his talk. 
Palmer looked back on the Reagan years as a "consolida­tion" of political ideologies 

delivers a lecture titled "Beyond the Reagan Revolution" at Hayes-Healy Center. Story at right. 

Corps 
continued from page 1 

The selection committee will consist of George Lopez of the Institute for the International Peace Studies; David Ruccio, director of Latin American studies; Waddick; and herself as chairman, said Weigert. 
"We (the members of these­lection committee) are really looking for someone who is ready and enthused about living in a Third World country," said Weigert. 
The three Notre Dame finalists will be interviewed on April 27 and the winning appli­cant will be chosen by May 2, said Weigert. 
The winner's application will be submitted to the national competition by May 13 and the applicant will be notified by June 1if he or she has been cho­sen by the Campus Com­pacWeace Corps selection committeee to participate in the program, said Weigert. 
The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur Qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
SMC Board prepares for elections 

8·00·· 
By JULIE RYAN 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's hall elections 
were the main focus of discus­
sion at the Board of Gover­
nance meeting Monday night. 
Hall elections will be held today, during meal hours, ac­cording to Julie Parrish, stu­dent body president. 
The location has been 
changed to downstairs, in front 
of the president's dining room 
on the LeMans side of the 
dining hall, said Parrish. 
The change will avoid the confusion of previous elections, when people were entering and leaving the dining hall in the same place where the voting was being done, she said. 
Parrish read the newly revised election rules from the student government handbook to the new members of the board. 
Parrish said a photo ID must be shown to receive a ballot, all ballots must be initialed on the back or they will be invalid, and all ballots must be put in the ballot box by the person who is voting. 
Each group running for of­fice may have a representative 

which satisfied the majority will. 
"The public, largely through Congress, made it clear that so­cial programs must remain in­tact," said Palmer. "Most of Reagan's ideology comes from our American heritage, and it's up to students to weigh the pros and cons of this credo." 
Palmer then turned to the changing welfare situation in America, and Reagan's cuts in the upper and lower tier social programs. "These changes mark a substantial shift in federal government, a de­evolution from federal to state government," said Palmer. 
Palmer described the prob­lems of an enormous national deficit coupled with the deterioration of government of­ficials since the 1970s. One of the difficulties, according to Palmer, is the fact that the American government refuses to deal with many of these long­
range problems. 
"The problem stems from the deterioration of public dialogue," said Palmer. "We're not talking about these problems as we need to." 
"There is a serious conflict in some basic values of societv which must be resolved," h~ said. "The public must be ed­ucated in order to realize the significance of these problems, and strive toward long term goals. 

who is not on the ticket present at the voting place to make sure that the procedures are followed correctly, Parrish said. 
The board discussed whether the raw number of votes should 
be  ma{ie  available  to  the  
public,  rather  than  the  
percentage of votes.  

This suggestion was given to the board by Sandy Cerimele, Saint Mary's editor of The Ob­server, to give the readers of The Observer more exact 





ATTENTION CLASS 
Senior Class Trip Signups Mon. & Tues., April 18 & 19, 

7-9 p.m. 

West Point Room, La Fortune Destination: NASSAU!!! 
The $498 trip includes all air and land accomodations $150 required at registration 
and there will be no registration next semester. 
*DON'T MISS OUT ON THE FUN­THERE'S ONLY ONE SENIOR TRIP* 
coverage of the elections, Par­rish said. 
The board decided they did not want to give out the exact number of votes to save possi­ble embarrassment of some candidates. 
+
American 


Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
• 

Tuesday, April 19, 1988 
The Observer 



Demjanjuk convicted of Nazi war crimes 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM --Retired Ohio autoworker John Demjanjuk was convicted Monday of Nazi war crimes by an Israeli court that said there was no doubt he was "Ivan the Terrible," a death camp guard who ran gas chambers that killed 850,000 Jews. 
The three-judge court con­victed Demjanjuk of the four counts against him: war crimes, crimes against the Jewish people, crimes against humanity and crimes against persecuted people. 
Demjanjuk, 68, listened to the guilty verdict from a cot in a cell next to the courtroom. Six police officers had carried him there feet first after he said he was unable to sit down because of a back injury. 
He was the second person to be convicted of war crimes in Israel. Adolf Eichmann, archi­tect of Adolf Hitler's "Final So-

PLO leader protests in 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Army cur­fews and strikes to protest the killing of a PLO leader paralyzed the occupied lands Monday, and hospital officials said soldiers shot two Arabs to death, including a woman who was taking her children home. 
At least 167 Palestinians have been reported killed since riots began Dec. 8 in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which Is­rael has occupied since captur­ing them from Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 Middle East war. An Israeli soldier and ci­vilian also have been slain. 
Israel ordered the closure of Jerusalem's only English­language magazine owned by Palestinians, alleging that it is financed and directed by ter­rorist organizations. Its managing editor denied the al­legations. Buildings in the West Bank 
' were draped with black flags lution" for the extermination of pected a conviction. 
European Jewry, was hanged "These are old-fashioned in 1962, the only person to have 
hanging judges,'' said Demjan­been executed in Israel's 40-juk's son, John Jr. "It's a dis­
year history. 

grace to the word justice."
The Ukrainian-born Demjan­juk, who lived in suburban "The writing is on the wall," Cleveland before his extradi­added Demjanjuk's son-in-law, tion to Israel in 1986, could face Ed Nishnic. "This is going to the death penalty when he is go down in history as the most sentenced April 25. Observers lopsided case ever conducted have said it was more likely he anywhere in the world." would receive a life prison term. Defense attorney Yoram 
"We determine decisively Sheftel said he told Demjanjuk and without hesitation or doubt last week there was "no doubt" that the accused John Demjan­he would be convicted. "He ac­juk who is on trial before us, is cepted it," the lawyer added. lvan, known as 'Ivan the Ter­rible,' the operator of gas Jewish leaders praised the chambers," said presiding verdict. Judge Dov Levine. "The trial was an affirma­
Defense attorneys have said tion of law and civility in they would appeal the verdict, response to the barbarity of the which came after the court Holocaust," said Harry Wall, spent 11 hours reading the 450-director of the Israel branch of 
page summation. Before it was the B'nai Brith Anti­announced, Demjanjuk's attor­Defamation League, a major ney and relatives said they ex-American-Jewish organization. 

assassination sparks Israeli-occupied ~reas 
of mourning for assassinated man Vasser Arafat said al­PLO leader Khalil al-Wazir. Wazir, his chief aide and the Hundreds of Palestinians paid PLO's military commander, condolence calls in Nablus to "fell, weapon in his hand, to the al-Wazir's cousin during three bullets of a Mossad gang." The days of mourning, said Adnan Mossad is the Israeli secret ser-Zahran of Nablus. vice. 
"Nablus is a city of ghosts," 

the 30-year-old engineer told Arafat said he had lost "a The Associated Press by tele­brother, a friend, a revolution­phone about the West Bank's ary companion and one of the largest city, which was in its symbols of the liberation fightsecond day of curfew. of the Palestinian people. . .. Al-Wazir, also called Abu The price of his death will be 
Jihad (Father ofthe Holy War), high." was killed early Saturday by commandos who burst into his Official sources in Tunis said home in a surburb of Tunis, privately Monday that inves­
Tunisia. tigators concluded Israel had 
News of the death sparked conducted the operation riots in the West Bank and against al-Wazir and Tunisia Gaza in which 17 Palestinians would make a formal com­were killed and more than 100 plaint to the U.N. Security wounded. It was the bloodiest Council. day in the territories since the Israel has said nothing offi­
rebellion began. cially, but Israeli sources have 
In a message to Arabs in the said the assassination was the occupied lands, Palestinian work of Mossad, the navy and Liberation Organization chair-an elite commando unit. 
Demjanjuk trial 

Security guards carry John Demjanjuk to hear the verdict in his Nazi war crimes trial. His family says he's suffering from a back injury. Story 
at left. 



Fund 
continued from page 1 
"I felt I wanted to do some­thing to help, to get something going at Notre Dame," Jansen said. 
Jansen contacted the local 
ABC-TV station, who helped 
her to get through to the Jansen 
family in Calgary, she said. 
When she finally got through to the team residence, Jansen said, she told them she wanted to help out their family. Since then, she said, she has been corresponding with Dan Jan­sen's brother Jim on the prog­ress she has made. 
During An Tostal, the 

U.M.O.C. (Ugly Man On Campus) fundraiser will be an­other way Jansen will get money for the fund. 
Proceeds from the U.M.O.C contest will be presented to the Leukemia Foundation from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student bodies in a ceremony on commencement weekend, Neidhoefer said. 
In the U.M.O.C contest, money will be given to guys who do weird things, like swal­low gold fish, Jan5en said. The guy who raises the most money will be known as the ugliest man on campus, she said. 
The incident was the second States sent a message to Iran 

such outbreak of violence since warning that any "further continued from page 1 the United States began escort­provocation or hostile Iranian 

Strike 
ing oil tankers through the gulf military or terrorist actionrising violence in the gulf, but last July to protect them from against U.S. personnel or tar­that the U.S. military response attack from the warring par­gets will receive a firm U.S.

************************************ was ''appropriate in light of our ties in the7-year Iran-Iraq war. 
response."
• * 
: Check out... : vital security interests and On Oct. 19, a raid was staged The message said the mine
Iran's continued belligerence." in retaliation to a missile at­explosion that damaged the• * "The stakes are very high, tack on a Kuwaiti ship flying 
Roberts had followed repeated• * and the U.S. cannot permit Iran the U.S. flag in which 18 warnings by the United States to impede the free flow of oil in Americans were injured. Two to Iran about the consequences~ THE GROOVE athe gulf," association president Iranian oil platforms were of placing mines in interna­George Moses said in a state­destroyed in what Reagan at
* • tional waters of the Persian
• • ment. the time termed a "prudent" Gulf.
There were no immediate in­response. 
Redman said that before

* * 
dications of American or
:* winner of this year's Nazz competition :* At the State Department, Monday's retaliatory action,
Iranian casualties from Mon­spokesman Charles Redman the United States had notified• ~d * day's fighting. said Monday that the United Britain, France, Italy, the Net­

..,_,,,,..,..,..,,,,___,,,_..,,,,_,......,_,.......,,,_..,,,,,,,,,,,,,...,,.._,,.,,...,,.,..,,""-......
* * 
Jle..............................................................................-.................._......_•.••••••"•..;i­
: Catholics in Bad a 
................................................................................................................................,..*
* 
~····-····••N•••···...-·......... Standingn•···-.........N.......n••··J 
~........,_,,_,...................., ..............._,,_,_.......,... ~............-·-············-···--·········--··--··············-···..····-··---·-___............
* • 
: another campus favorite ! •* •* 
* • 

:* this Friday night :* * 9:45 at Theodore's * *• *
* •
* •
* •
************************************* 
IF YOU ARE GRADMTING MAY 1988••• IF YOU HAVE OBTAINED STUDENT LOANS••• 
It will be necessary for you to attend (federal regulation) one of two exit interviews: April 19, 1988 7:00 to 9:00 PM 
April 21, 1988 7:00 to 9:00 PM at Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center 

herlands and Belgium of its in­tentions. All have naval vessels in the gulf. Others, including the Soviet Union, were notified at the time the action com­menced, he said. 
Democratic and Republican congressional leaders said they felt Reagan's actions were fully justified. Several said they were pleased that Reagan consulted with them on Sunday night before acting. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., said: "the Iranians were carrying out terrorist acts.... I support the decision to ,siestroy the (Iranian oil drilling) plat­forms." 
------------~---------~­
f 






Viewpoint 
Tuesday, April 19, 1988
page 6 

P.O. Box Q
Task Force needs student input 
The release of the four task force reports two weeks ago has left many students confused. Whether because of apathy or in­timidation at the sheer size of the reports, many are waiting to see what becomes of them. This is a mistake. 
Students must make their opinions heard now if they wish to have any effect on policy decisions. 
University President Father Edward Malloy has explicitly asked for input to aid in assessing the recommendations, stating in the letter accompanying the reports, "In determining priorities, we should be grateful for your reactions." 
The timing of the reports' release seems rather poor, as stu­dents are busy with end of the year activities. Regardless, they have been released now, and now is not the time for apathy. Recommendations may very well become actual changes by next fall, as happened with the Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol in 1984. Students responded then by storming the Administration Building and holding mass rallies. Amidst their rage, no articulate response was formulated by these students and, as a result, the administration adopted policy changes with­out the help of significant student input. 
Again student input has been requested, and the time for such input is now. A unified student opinion is not necessary; better a disjointed opinion than no opinion at all. 
Many vehicles exist by which students can express their ideas and concerns, and all should be used to their fullest. Malloy himself requested input in the form of letters, asking students to "direct your comments to the person to whom the report was made"--namely Malloy, Provost Timothy O'Meara, and Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. Such an offer should not go unheeded. 
Student government has assembled and distributed a ques­tionnaire in an effort to solicit opinions. Granted, the form allows primarily for only yes1lo responses, but a large response by students in terms of sheer numbers would send a clear signal of student concern. 
Forums have been assembled in the dorms to initiate student response. These forums continue through Thursday, and they provide an excellent chance to speak out. 
These Task Force reports address four crucial areas of Uni­versity life, and their effects will undoubtedly be felt by students in the coming school year. The administration has requested student response; the time to act is now. To remain silent would 

eliminate  the  only opportunity students  have  to  affect  the  
reports' final impact.  
-The  Observer  

Dooneabury 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Mr. Stanford: for a worthy cause 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to thank all those who helped out with the 1988 Mr. Stanford Contest, especially Washington Hall Manager Tom Barkus, and Dr. Emil Hofman, who videotaped the event. This was the sixth consecutive year that we have held the competition, and it was the best and biggest so far in the history of the contest. The first Mr. Stanford Contest was held in the base­ment of our dorm; however, the fact that we can now sell out Washington Hall lends some credibility to the fact that the Mr. Stanford Contest is not just a dorm event, but now a campus event as well. This year we were able to raise about $700 which will benefit the Hope Mission Homeless Shelter. The proceeds going to the Hope Mission will be used to purchase various items which they have requested. 
We would like to thank The Observer for covering the event for the first time ever. Unfortunately, we at Stanford feel that Mary Berger's article "Stanford Contest Entertaining but Lacks Taste" of Apr. 11 was not a fair review of what we think was a worthy fundraiser for a local charity. We acknowledge that there were a few rough spots as well as one or two isolated incidents during which things may have seemed "off­color." However, these parts were not more crude than some things said during other campus events. Neverthe­less, Berger seems to have judged the entire contest solely on these few inci­dents. The rest of the contest was taste­ful, funny and exciting, and we have heard nothing but positive comments from numerous people who were in the audience. 
We feel that Mr. Stanford accom­plished two main goals: we were able to raise a sizable amount of money for the homeless shelter, and we provided a different sort of entertainment to over 600 people. We at Stanford feel that we are speaking with the majority when we say that the 1988 Mr. Stanford Con­test was not just "locker room talk" but a huge success. 
David Gould Ben Scafidi Wilson Walter 1988 Mr. Stanford Contest Co-Chairmen April13, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 
Editoral Board 

Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly News Editor ......................................... Regis CoC'cia News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 

Flaws corrected in SMC elections 
Dear Editor: 
As student body president, I am con­cerned about the recent attack on the integrity and honor of Saint Mary's stu­dent government which appeared in The Observer on Tuesday, April 12. It is unfortunate I have to address such an arduous accusation at the beginning of a new term, however, I also feel clarification and redemption is needed here. 
Saint Mary's student government fundamentally supports student in­volvement, inquisition and input. Un­fortunately, this is an ideal and, like most democracies, is limited without voluntary outside participation. Stu­dent government leaders are therefore entrusted by the student body to act in accordance with students' beliefs. It is both parties' responsibilities to com­municate any discrepancies in such beliefs, ideas or views. 
Student government is not a flawless organization and has never claimed to be one. There were flaws in the election procedure that were not apparent before the narrow three ticket student body election for 1988-89. These flaws, however, did not obstruct the running of a fair and impartial race. The flaws were in election procedure, not struc­ture, and therefore did not affect the end results of the election. 
These procedural flaws did not make student government a mockery, nor were they an embarassment to student government. They were an oversight to the expanding participation and aware­ness in student government and its' elections. 
Now that the flaws in the system have 
been addressed and corrected 
democratically, I hope the interest in 
student government remains as hall 
elections approach this week on Tues­
day, April 19. I encourage all of you to go out and vote for those student gov­ernment leaders who will represent you within the next year. 
Julie Parrish Student Body President Saint Mary's College April13, 1988 


Quote of the Day 

"The people that once bestowed commands, consulships, legions, and all else, now concerns itself no more, and Ion g s eagerly for just two things bread and circuses!" 
Juvenal 
Operations Board 
Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager............ .. .. Marga Bruns 

Founded November 3,1966 




Accent
Tuesday, April 19, 1988 


UICE 

hard to swallow 
B
ROBYN SIMMONS bara Maitland (Alec Baldwin family. Delia (Catherine accent writer and Geena Davis), a likable O'Hara) had her heart set on young couple who were in­revamping the entire build­eetlejuice--say it three volved in a car accident at ing. Her stepdaughter Lydia times and "the ghost the beginning of the film. (Winona Ryder) was a loner with the most" will appear. The Maltlands returned to who liked to dress in black Actually, this is the last thing and take pictures. Lydia's
their home to find a anyone would want to hap­father Charles (Jeffery
"Handbook for the Recently pen after seeing this film. Jones) was a henpecked
Deceased" In their living Michael Keaton stars as husband who spent most of
room. Somehow they got BeUeve It or not, this Is Michael Keaton as a freelance blo-exorclst. 
Beetlt;juice, a "freelance bio­his time looking clueless.
the clue that they didn't sur­exorclst"' who helps scare Adam and Barbara years. effects, but those weren't
vive the accident. people out of haunted decided to frighten the In desperation, the Malt­particularly scary. Keaton houses. I would use the The Maltlands were also Deetzes away, but proved to lands decided to summon gets to spout off winning term 'stars' quite loosely, unable to leave their house. be rather inadequate ghosts. Beetlt;juice, who advertised lines like, "Attention, K-Mart since Keaton didn't appear Whenever they stepped out­They eventually befriended himself on TV as the bio­shoppers!" and "Go ahead, until the second half of the side their front door, they Lydia, who was the only live exorcist with "a free demon make my millennium." film. When Keaton finally did ended up In a bizarre person in the household possession for every exor­Keaton is a talented, appear, his character was so wasteland--probably the who could see them. The cism." I've seen used car usually funny actor, and obnoxious and Irritating that cranium of whoever wrote Maitlands traveled to the af­dealer commercials funnier that"s why it's so surprising I wished he never showed the script. terworld where their than Keaton's parody of one. that he was one of the worst up In the first place. To the Maitland's dismay, caseworker Informed them In one scene, the ghosts elements of an already The real stars of this their house was sold to the that they would be stuck in temporarily possessed the bland fllm. With a terminally movie were Adam and Bar-Deetzes, a rather eccentric the house for the next 125 Deetzes and their dinner goofy grin that must have guests. This was probably been surgically removed the one moment of the fllm after fllming stopped, that could be considered Keaton came across as humorous. The Deetz family someone desperately trying and their guests (which in­to make people laugh. cluded Dick Cavett as Della's Basically, Beetlejulce could agent) danced around the do anything--from throwing table singing the "banana his voice to spinning his boat song." It wasn't terribly head--but entertain the audi­hilarious, but the little kids ence. There's not much to In the theater seemed to en­be said for this movie, ex­joy it. cept that I hope Keaton's Technically, "Beetlejuice" next movie role won't In­is a comedy.. but it just volve a plot that makes as wasn't very funny. There much sense as the name were some well done special "Beetlejulce." 
'The Wonder Years' --simply wonderful 
looks more like a cow's less, enabling the viewers to 
citing past years of your full of wonder in the form of head. Hervey's portrayal of Kevin's relate to both his character life? Everyone, at one time many intriguing characters. Someone asks him to "pain-in-the-butt" older bro­and the situation. or another, looks back at These Include Kevin's nerdy draw the rest of the female ther is so convincing that 
some favorite times of the friend Paul (Josh Saviano) anatomy so that they can those who have older brot­"The Wonder Years" Is a past. It's no wonder, then, and Kevin's girlfriend Winnie get an understanding of how hers will find themselves marvelously entertaining that someone has captured (Damica McKellar), whose everything fits together. (In remembering their wonder­dramedy and a sure hit for the essence of this favorite brother was recently killed in reality, they want to see how ful siblings In all their glory. ABC. The show has main­
pastime In a new television Vietnam. Cullin can handle drawing Laurlca and Mills' tained the high Tuesday dramedy, "The Wonder Then there's Coach Cutllng certain body parts. Those portrayals of Mr. and Mrs. night standards set by Years." (Robert Picardo), the school seventh graders are SO Arnold flow with a level of "Growing Pains" by starting 
ABC airs this ingenious gym and sex education sneaky... ) When Cutlln reality greater than most its run in the Nielson Top show on Tuesdays at 7:.30 teacher. Together, these merely draws a box around other TV parents. The star of Ten. The show appeals to p.m.(the spot recently occu-characters create and sus-the "cow's head," Kevin the show, however, Is Fred people of every age and 
comments, "It was then that Savage, a truly Incredible depicts a real and nostalgicJoe Bucolo 
I understood why Mr. Cutlin child actor. His facial expres­situation. "The Wonder sions and reactions are flaw-Years" Is simply...wonderful. 
E
ver want to relive the ex­the death of the senator, is show are very impressive. 
would remain eternally single." The comedy of the show To be continued... is set against the backdrop 
of 1968, a year of much tur­pled by "Growing Pains," tain a very real an<l authen­moil and confusion. In the ABC's highest rated show). tic past. midst of their daily live&, the The entire series is a flash­When It comes to plots, characters must cope with back of Kevin Arnold on his the show offers situations to the second murder of a Ken­seventh grade life In 1968. which everyone can relate. nedy as well as the Vietnam 
The present-day Kevin nar­Kevin relives that awkward conflict. The show's writers rates the show and each stage ofjunior high when do an outstanding job week deals with a wonderful girls suddenly turn from showing how these unex­aspect of seventh grade de­pests Into desirable crea­pected tragedies can Imme­
velopment. tures. diately change the lives of 
Fred Savage (currently The sex education classes the people they influence. starring In the hit movie are depicted in a witty man­In the midst of exciting "Vice Versa") portrays the ner, but the fact that most seventh grade life, for exam­young Kevin. other family viewers have lived through ple, Winnie learns her older members Include Kevin's such fiascos makes them all brother Brian has been father Jack (Dan Laurlca), the more funny. Kevin com­killed in Vietnam. The 
Kevin's mother Norma (Alley ments that "sex In the hands episode deals with the wake Mills), his older brother of public education Is not a and funeral. Kevin must put Wayne (Jason Hervey), and pretty thing." his romantic feelings for 
his "flowery" older sister The scenario involves a Winnie aside and, in a very Karen (Olivia d'Abo). group of seventh grade boys mature fashion, help his 
Kevin's junior high school. watching Cutlin draw the friend deal with her suffer­recently renamed Robert female sex organs. When ing. Kennedy Junior High after he's finished, the picture The performances on the 





&nior Form 
The Chicago Hyatt Regency was the site of the 1988 Senior Class Formal. Seniors gathered for the weekend to remember the good times and the friendships formed over the past four years. 
-----~­
-· 




Irish 

continued from page 16 
ball well in the spring but failed to show the mobility Irish coaches wanted. 
"Kent gets better every 
day," said Cordelli. "He still 
has to work on his mobility par­
ticularly, but he's coming 
along fine." 
Graham admits his lack of 
scrambling ability has hurt 
him, especially since the graduation of four starting linemen has left the offensive protection sporadic. 

"Decreasing the sack is one of the major things I've got to work on," said Graham. "I have to work on getting rid of the ball and not putting the team in a situation of second­and-long. We have been switch­ing guys around a lot on the offensive line, and there have been some missed assign­ments, but that's the aspect I needed to work on." 
Rice, meanwhile, has shown 
The Observer 
enough in the passing depart­ment to keep Graham with the second unit. Although his num­bers on the spring often have been less than sensational, such as a recent 6-of-20 perfor­mance in one scrimmage, Irish coaches have been pleased with his mechanics and decision-making when throw­ing the ball. 
"People can look at the stats, but what counts is what's put on the board,'' said Cordelli. ''A quarterback is like a doctor. He's got to make decisions when there's not a whole lot of time to make them. The guy who can make those decisions, move the football team, and be a leader, is who you want. Tony's improved his passing this spring and been the most consistent moving the team." 

Although he admits he still needs practice timing his passes, Rice says he feels satisfied overall with his per­formance. He also agrees that the criticisms leveled against his passing ability last year 
Tuesday, April 19, 1988 
only served to make him more nervous when he did have to throw. 
"I didn't care what anybody said, I thought I was a good pas­ser," Rice said. "But last year, I thought about it too much. Now, I'm just trying to get the job done and not letting it bot­her me. I feel like I've im­proved a lot, and I'm trying to continue to get a better feel of the ball and to learn my receivers. But so far, it's going very well." 
Tile 0....Notra o.me offlGe, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, eccepta clualfted ~from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 11w 0....s.lnt ...,Y. offlce, located on the third floor of Hllgg..-Collge Center, eccepta c'-lfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thfOugll Friday. Deedllne for next-day claaalfteda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must
Classifieds be pnlplld, either In person Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ~perday. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
ADOPTION: Loving couple, phy81cl8n and payc:hologlat, deaply wlahn to adopt .-bam. Welcoming -nnfa,.. fly, love, opportuniiiHI Expan­pakl. LAgal, conlklendal. Cell Ellie and Al8n collect 212·724-71142. 
Prof8880111 and grad-students: Pandcra's will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to make an appointment. 1 D-5:30 7 daysANeel< 
Wordproceulng-Typing 
272-8827 
CALL 237-11148 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 
2n-1406 
WORDePLUS Scholastic Typing-Editing Rush Jobs O.K. 256-30n 
BUS TRIP HOME TO PHILL Y SIGN­UPS THURS 7:30 Baaa. LaFortune tat COME 1at SERVE 

\ LOST/FOUND I 
helpllost a brown wallet with inrtials FJD, contained 10, driver's liscence, and photos. It was lost somewhere between 
North dining hall and the Engineering ii· brary. Please call Francis at 283-1723 or return to 704 Grace Hall ~ found. REWARDIIIIIII$50. 
LOST: One jeans jacket.l wouldn't care ~ you kept rt ~ not for my keys being in the pocket. It was left in 101 Hu~ey after the 10:10 class on Wed. 41'13. My name Is in the coat so give me a call at x2003. 
FOUND: 3 X 8 IN. LT. BROWN AD­DRESS BOOK WIT1t ALPHABETIZED TABS. NO OWNERS NAME. FOUND BEHIND FACULTY LOT ACROSS FROM BRARE. CLAIM AT LOST • FOUND IN UBRARY. 
LOST: A dark blue velcro wallet. H has all my id. and driver's license. I have no existance without this wallet. Please call Matt at x3134 or 3132. 
LOST: Royal blue NO backpack from North Dining Hall at Lunch Monday. Call Betsy at x4169 PLEASEIII 
LOST; WHITE, PULLOVER N.D. JACKET. 206 O'SHAG, LAST WED. 
A.M. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JEN AT 2526 
LOST: Black vinyl shoulder bag at senior formal check-in. Contains a 35mm camera. pocket camera, notebook and planner. ll you have any information or accidentally picked ~ up please call Theresa at 2n·8158. IIIIIREWARDIIIII lor any of~ returned. 
Lost on Friday (if I knew where: this wouldn't be put in) Ray Ban sunglasses. Gold Ira.,_ less than 1 K. ll found please call Dan at 271-0480 


FOR RENT 
2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID 288-{)955 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD 288-0955'.!55-3684 
NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
6838889 
GREAT STUDIO SUBLET II Spacious, wall-to-wall carpeting, new krtchen. Avail· able May 15. Pe~ect for grad. student or prof. Quiet location, 'IV laundry f8()ilities. 
etc. Call 289-n09. 
STUDIO APARTMENT TURTLE CREEK $33GMONTH CALL 2n-4842 

TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER RENT CALL 283·1606 ERIC 
summer rental beaut~ui, large 1 bedroom apt. in house wtiver view. 1 mile from campus fur· nished, safe neighborhood, fenced yard. 289-2527 
Lg. apt. near Leeper Park. 288·2821. 
IH BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER OR II MO LEASE FOR FALL.272.QOII 
................................................................ 

WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN· INGS 914 3814224 
................................................................ 

FOR SALE 
IBM PCXT Model 086 10Mb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quadram CGA color monitor. $1, 600 price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO and other software packages also avail· able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239· 7248 weekdays from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Ia It True You Can Buy Jeepa lor $44 through the u.s. eovemment? Get the facta todllyl Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 
1318. 

MACINTOSH 128K; IMAGEWRITER 1 & ACCESSORIES Call TOM 2350 
St. L.oula C.rdlnel Beaaball Fenell i have SIX tlcketa lor tha night game on Aug. 5th egelnlll the Expoa. I can't go, bU1 I know you would love tol Only $50. x1560 
WINDSURFER FOR SALE Fanatic Cat w Mistral Sail 368cm race board Call Ron 287-7736 
IBM PC?CT Clone Call Rick 271.0548 
For Sale. Sax wrth new pads, case and cleaners. Casio Keyboard. W~h drums, chords and 24 sounds. 271-9341 for Jen· niter. 
1978 4-DOOR VOLKS RABB, 92, 000 miles GOOD COND. $1100 call 288· 6154 

TICKETS 
I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA· TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN 
WE NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD llX. CALL KAREN 2878, OR ERIC 232·131111 TOOAYI 
HELPII DESPERATELY need one more Commencement ticket. I'll make you a GREAT DEAL $$$1 Call Gretchen 272· 2836 
HELPII I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big $$$ Call Heidi 233·4 176 
Two graduation tickets needed. Will pay. Please call Susan at 239-6098. 
HELP! You've got to understand I My fam­ily is too big and 3 reason I want to say ... 
1. My siblings WANT to SEE me in per· son, NOT to HEARl 2. They WANT to CRY OUT their CHEER, but CAN'T HEAR theml 3. Because I'M DEAF!... PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, I desperately need 3 GRADUT ATION TICKETS! I WILL PAY $$$$ PLEASE CALL JJ x3276 
I NEED AS MANY GRAD TICKETS AS YOU CAN SELL. CALL SAM: 271.Q683 OR 288-5818 
My whole family is coming from Puerto Rico and I might need up to tan gradua· tion tickets. Please call GilbM at m · 7261 and we'll reach a price agreement. 

PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER • UOUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les· bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College 
P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentialily Guaranteed. endad 
Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandcra's Books. 808 Howard off NO Ave. tD-5:30, 7day&Week 233·2342 
ATIENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your cer pur· chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 
Bartles Imports BMWMAZDIWW All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272·8504 Ends April 30th 
SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or B.MILLER PO 665 NO IN 
JUST SAY uNOc. ugly nan on campua... 
Things are getting UGLY 
Vote UMOC LaFMune Info Booth Mon-Fri 7-9 
SENIOR MONTH 1988111 SENIOR MONTH 1988111 CONTINUE THE FES· TIVITIES TUESDAY AT TIVOLI'S DIME BEERS, LOTS OF FRIENDS, AND LOTS OF FUN HOW CAN YOU GO WRONG??? 
LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR CLUE NO.2 Unlike NO guys I've seen a lot of action Reaching for the sky All look to me for hope. 
What does JUDY do on weekends? "I R.O.C.k alone" Judy -Ugly Rectress On Campus 
KATE~ JEN OK, I'll do it, but you provide the M~M's. 
SUMMER JOBSI SUMMER JOBSI AVAILABLE AT THE DEVELOPMENT 
PHONE' CENTER EVENING HOURS, NO WEEKENDS. 20 HRS PER WEEK llL THE END OF JULYI $4.35-$4.75 PER HOUR. PER· FECT JOB FOR SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS. APPLY AT BADIN PHONE CENTER OR CALL CAROL McCLORY AT 239-7838 
HEY!fl Gu... whlll'a coming April 27 
TO THE THEIF WHO STOLE THE WATCHES OUT OF 815 PEON FRI 4-8: MAIL THEM BACK TO THE OWNER BY 4-21 AND I WON'T TURN YOU IN 
Paula and Becky -I love you guys, you're the best. Hope we go to LittleS's. Love, Kim 
R.G. Thanks for everything. Love, Me 
To all my wonderful friends in Four No~h -1 love ya. Kim 
JUDY istooUGLY--make he< feel good and b<ing your pennies to LaForunell Judy : U.R.O.C.· -ugly rectress on campus·----· 
So, you have discovered you need not join the Army to see the wo~d? If you are beginning to pack your backpacks and are getting your passpo~ ready for stamping, take a break Tuesday 4-6 for Student Government's 
BON VOYAGE PARTY pizza pop travel talk at Theodore's all NO and SMC students who will be studying abroad next year are cordially invitadl Questions? Mary 1284 
Futured NOOMC foreign study students: REMEMBER the BON VOYAGE PARTY today at Theodore's 4·6 
Ballroom Dancers:Come out and join the other members one more time. Friday, April 22 is the 1ast chance to dance"at the Knights of Columbus from 7:30 to 
I0:30pm 

KIM E' ·SOld someone say 'about $46?" We were all impressed when we found out that you could add. No one could believe that you don't trust us... We're shocked that you dumped out your change so that you could count Hl?l You know that we wouldn't dream of keeping just one cent that wasn't ours. Remem· ber, anyone will buy beer free if they get to drink ~-Why not ask the guys who were going to? H's a good thing that you did leave your change, though. Other· wise, what would pay for this ad? 
REMINDER to all KISSERS: There is a very important meeting tonight at 9:30 in the Montgomery Theatre • Leforune. 
AnnetteR How could anyone else be considered lor UWOC? What a headshot on the in· side columnl 
Thanks, Pete. 

OK Scott, you got me pretty good . However, I will not sink any lower than we already have in order to get vengence (they probably wouldn't print what I want to put in anyway). Just keep in mind that I have IN MY POSSESSION a tape of a sordid incident in Koppel Pennyslvanla that could su~ace at any time in your l~e and completely destroy your political aspirations. Live in fear ... -you know who 
P.S. The war is not overi 

LOST: Scott Bearby'a mind. Description: Very small and strange. If found, call 3083. 
OH, MY GOD, THEY'RE BACK!f 
the Lab/an Miners are coming!!! 
All ante Did you solve the mystery yet? Anyway, don't forget about tonight's double lea· lure 
JIM Thank• lor baing ao nlc.ll Love alweya, SUE (P.S. no code) 
THE FLYING LEATHERNECKS 
will be performing the rock opera Tommy in Hs entirely tonight TUES., APRIL 19 AT CHIPS 
DON'T MISS THEM! 
No, scon BEARBY is not engaged, but he is very interested. Now, as for Jenn Conlon ... 
Michelle and Margo-You guys are great and tons of fun. Love, Kim 
Happy 20th bi~hday to a very hot woman, yes it's you T<acy. I.L.Y. -TOM 
ca'Mfi.seE··:i;:N·;:·c;c;L:AciNa··;:s·j·it:i.. 
MONROE; CHRIS KURTZKE AS KELLY GARRETT; JEN VAN-ES AS SABRINA DUNCAN; MICHELLE RYAN AS WONDER WOMAN; TERRY HIZON AS ISIS. 6 TONIGHT. SMC COURT 13 
;F'FiE'ezE'eus:.reFii;·;aii.i:iiafi:rY'isisi· 
"IrS TIME FOR THE GOLD LASSO OF TRUTH I" LOOK FOR THE OUTFITS TO MATCH THE LINES. 6 PM. SMC COURT 13. 
Mr.Quantas Airlines Who would ever treat a woman tha way you did to me? This is not over yet-it will be a very long time before I will forgetiYou know who you are!Oon't think you can get rid of me easllyiHave a nice weeki Call me this weeki Ms.Sydney Ai~ine 
Hey Geek· Sorry I took you away from your work Friday night. I think it was worth it though, don't you? Thanks for a great night. Love, 
Jerkface 

RIDE NEEDED to Indy or IU Bloomington this weekend for LiL 500 Will share ex· penses. Call x31 41 
TO MY FAVORITE MAN WOUT A MIDDLE NAME: THANKS FOR A FAN· TASTIC WEEKEND OF NEW EXPERI· ENCES FOR BOTH OF US. LErS TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THAT UNUTILIZED RESOURCE AGAIN SOMETIME. LOVE CATHERINE JIM WINKLER 
JIM WINKLER 
JIM WINKLER 
FOR BPOC 
JUST ASK ANY HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR!f 
AN TOSTAL IS HEREtt! AN TOSTAL IS HEREtt! AN TOSTAL IS HEREtt! AN TOSTAL IS HEREtt! AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII 
................................................................ 
llMID TUESDAY ... TIMID TUES. 
DAY ... llMID TUESDAY An Toatal Spirit Reflle, Tuck Ina, Ul­timata FrlabM, UMOC Looking lor Mr. Goodbar, KISSER, Bookato111 Baaket· ball end mo111l Check your bookleta. Queatlona? Stop by the An Tatal Of­ftc. Rm. 307 LaFortune. 
llMID TUESDAY ... TIMID TUES. DAY ... llMID TUESDAY ... ANTDSTAL IS HERE! Todlly'a eventa: Goff Toum· ament 2:00pm Burlle Memorial Golf Ccuraa. Chalk Drawing Contut 3:00pm on the Fleldhouaa Melli Come end be a part of tha fun! 
0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MARTYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLE NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTERCES· SOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPE· CIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART AND HUMBLY BEG TO WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY ASSISTANCE. HELP ME IN MY PRESENT URGENT PETITION. IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. SAY THREE OUR FATHERS, THREE HAIL MARYS 
AND GLORIAS. PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. ST. JUDE PRAY FOR US WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN. THIS NOVENA MUST BE SAID FOR 9 CONSECUTIVE DAYS. 

SUZANNE P AND BETH M NINE FINE llNY BUNS OVENS ARE FOR BAKING THEM MY TRUE LOVE IS TAKING THEM I WILL BE SO NICE FOR THEM I WILL KISS HIM TWICE FOR THEM ICAN'TBEUEVEMY DINASAUR ANOMY BOOTS AREGONE.HOWCANIEVERTRUSTYOU AGAIN? CRUNCHYPOTATOES, MEG 
AMY, MAUREEN, KATHY, MARY, DANA, AMY, STELLA, KRISTEN THE BUMBLINGIDIOTS FINALLY DO WELL!f LOVE VA, MEG BLADES, DOYOUWANTMYPULP? 
ZEP FEST II '88 
THURSDAY 4-21 from 3 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
1628 Po~age Avenue 
Come Nil your head with Led ... 
IIIII JELLO WRESTLING IS BACK ­
THURSDAY, 5:00, SMC IIIII 
Dear Princess: Gee, I've never been "kissed" before I Thanks, sweetie. Cheers, Your Prince 

SCOTI BEARBYIII!fll My lila le not over nowIf Thanka lor tha good newa about your non-marital -uall Kille Buah could not ba happlerlllll 
AMY HOODECHECKIIIII I mlu you babalfll Hcpa everything In your life Ia peachy!I Come up and-me aome tlmell Love your lev Pebble Beac­
hertltl 

Dr. Jean Kilbourne. Under the innuence. 
8:00 p.m. in the library auditorium. Free admission. Frank will be there. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT with Royel 
P1111111ge. $3250 plua lor 13 wMka. Excellent ex· pertenc. lor futu111 ruurnel Poaltlona available In Michigan, lndlena end Ohio. Automobile requl111d. For more lnlonnllllon come to Morrla Inn, Alumni Room, Thuraday April 21at at 2:10 or 4:10. 
Can you buy Jeeps, Cars, 4 x 4's Seized in drug raids for under $1 00.00? Call for facts today. 602·837·3401, Ext. 881. 
FOR SALE:' one-wey flight to PHILLYI Only $100. Luvu SoU1h Bend on Sat. altar flnala. Call John at 2004 
Slash, Worm, Poppey, Mark, Lally, and Arnie .. Thanks for being great friends and making this a great year. Brian you're the best. Love, Kim 
1WO LITER TREDER!/! 7WO LITER TREDER!!! 
VICKY-. My tongue still hurts from what we did 
together Saturday night. It was well worth 
rt, though. _TIM 
THANK YOU SAINT JUDEII 
SENIORS: Going to e new city? ea-r end Pl_,.nt S.rvfcea can help you find other N.D. grada going to tha ume city. STOP BY AND SIGN UP NOW 
TOP 10 FROM HOLLAND; 1. Bring your books, we'll study Saturday 2. Now we gotta deal wrth the Mch 3. We'll just spray lysoi on the fire 4. BABYCHAIR OF DEATH! 5. Holy goggles! 6. Spin the pizza 7. Gi~ gives birth at 5, grandma at 
11 8. Luke, what's a boner? 9. Beer run in 20 minutesi 10. The bi~hday zebra's in the trunk BONUS QUOTE: STAG PARTYII 
Nora, Stacy, Anne, Joy, and Jen. The formal was a blast, you guys are the greatest-just wanted to say "Thanks Man." your HUGE Stanford Studs 
Novice Women's HWS 31 minrunsintheAcc, orthetravelingweathercurse. Thegi~ho'sinbow(um ..Kristin ..Thelma), Stella, Amy"wow", Dana, Smegnell, Kat· hyblades, Mo&AmyEiizabeth: 
Thanksforal~hefunandFriendship. 
l'llmissyouKathy, Amy&Stella.Take Europebystormforme. LoveYouall Mary 
And Now For Something Completely D~­ferent .. Monty Python's GRAHAM CHAPMAN at O'Laughlin Audrtorium Sunday, April 24th 
7:30 tickets: $5 student&$10 public Ticket Stub-LaFortune O'Leughlin Box Office Century Center Ticket Office 
BRING OUT YOUR DEADI Graham Chapman Tickets on sale now 
. . or I shall be forced to taunt you a second time.. • 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN GRAHAM CHAPMAN GRAHAM CHAPMAN GRAHAM CHAPMAN 
STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER Ill STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! Lowut rata. 24 hour electronic protec­tion. Cell 854-3836. 
CRUISE TO THE TUNE OF $8-StOHR. Cen you meka $12, OOG'fr. delivering lor Dcmlno'a Pizza? You bell Now hiring. 1835 South Bend Avenue $3.7Mir with bcnua Ill hire. 2n-2tst. 
DUCKS ARE GOOD ·DUCKS ARE COOL DUCKS PLAY TUESDAY AT 5 AND THINK THEY RULEII Come watch ODE TO A DUCK in Women's Bookstore at Saint Mary's. 
......A:tt;;~ii;:;~·iiA:L:i:.P'iieSioiit:iii,...... 
This week's HPC meeting will be at Fis· her tonight at 6:30. All new presidents should attend. 
AN TOSTAL T-SHIRTS ARE HERE 
X 1951 

Have A Coke And A Smile 
THE WALLETS  lead this promising squad. The game was never close,  
with Address taking a 15-0 lead  
before Headache could pull to  
LIVE  within 14. the inside  Botham controlled game, while her  
Minnesota Music Awards  teammates in the frontcourt held Headache's star guard  
Best Rock Band -'85  Lynn  Arnold  scoreless.  Ar- 
and Band of the Year -'84  
this Thursday night 9:30  
at Theodore's  
LAST YEAR'S BIGGEST  


-~ ---~---~~-­
---~-~~ 

Tuesday, April 19, 1988 The Observer page 11 
•



Men's Volleyball wraps up season 1n MIVA's 
SMC track team places 4th 
Belles win three medals in Saint Joe's Relay Invite 
The Men's Volleyball Club ended a great season on a sour note last weekend, taking third place in the MIVA Regional Championships. 
The Irish, who were seeded first, lost a hard­fought battle to Michigan 12-15, 11-15 in the semi­final round of the tourney. Notre Dame played with­out the services of starter Andrew Sullivan, who was out for the weekend with an arm injury. 
Notre Dame came back to down Ohio State for third place. In pool play, the Irish defeated Wooster College, Toledo and Quincy College. They outlasted Wisconsin in the quarter-finals 15-13, 9-15, 15-12. 
Mike Shimota and Keola Chun made the all­tourney team for Notre Dame. 
Despite the disappointing finish, the Irish still had one of the best records in their history. They com­piled a 28-10 ledger, seven of those losses coming at the hands of varsity teams. More than that, they turned some of the heads that make the decisions regarding the advancement of club teams to the varsity level. 
"We had a great year," coach Bill Anderson said. "Hopefully, next year we'll be even better. We have a lot of good freshmen coming in." 

Greg Guffey 
Club Corner 


The Women's Softball Club lost seven of eight games last week to fall to 4-12 for the season. 
Notre Dame dropped a doubleheader to St. Joseph's by scores of 13-8 and 6-1. The team bounced back to defeat Purdue 13-3 behind the hitting of Meg Fay and Marie Liddy. The Boilers won the second game 11-8 after taking an eight-run lead in the first inning. 
Mter the Purdue split, the Irish lost four straight games. Lake College swept a doubleheader from the Irish 2-1 and 5-4, rallying from a 4-1 deficit in the second game. McHenry College won two from the Irish Saturday, 17-15 in a slugfest and 9-3 in the nightcap. 
The inconsistent play from both the offense and defense has left coach Joe Speybroeck looking for ways to turn the season around. 
"When the defense plays well, the offense is not hitting," Speybroeck said. "When the offense gets going, the defense makes mistakes. It's just a men­
tal lapse that arises at a certain point. It seems 
that if we don't dig ourselves in a hole early, we're 
allright." 
The Irish hope to turn things around Wednesday 
when they meet Purdue-Calumet. They also play 
Saint Mary's on Friday. 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's varsity track team took fourth place in the Saint Joseph's College Relay Invitational held Satur­day at Rensselaer, Ind., as in­juries and Junior Mother's Weekend left the team with only six girls to compete in the relay events. 
Saint Joseph's took first place by defeating Spring Arbor, Goshen, DePauw, Taylor, Val­paraiso Club and Saint Mary's. 
Individuals placing first, second or third received medals. The Belles won two 
.

r­
. 

~ 
-.,_ 
' 

\" 
~ 

\ 
4 
., ) 

of the Notre Dame women's

_...,.1""'""'-----------------------------....-• varsity basketball team, and 
Kara England, a member of '---1~-----------------------------.....,"""1 last year's Bookstore champi­
onship team (Quixotic Quint), 
yourself. Let one of our Designers give you the long nolls you hove been dreaming of. We'll alao help your own oolls grow
DON'T MISS IT! stronger. Bring this o.d o.nd receive o. frH 
bottle of Queen's Co.atle No.ll Pollah with 

your set of oolls. ~ Ca.tle 
54533 Terrace La~~e 
.........,_._.D.._...,..... 

medals by capturing one first place and one second place finish. The first came in the javelin relay as Jeanette O'Neil, Kelly Streit and Maggie Daday recorded a combined distance of 248'5" to win the event. 
The 1600-meter relay of Mary Cassidy, Cathy Kennedy, Daday and Streit placed second with a time of 4: 26.8 seconds to win their medal. 
Saint Mary's recorded several fourth-place finishes. In the 400-meter relay, Claire Dettling, Daday, Streit and Cassidy combined for a time of 
56.2 seconds. In the 800-medley 
To: Terrie and Rich, the cutest couple I know and the best Mom and Dad I could have asked for. Happy Birthday to both of you! Love forever and always, Kristen 
relay, Daday, Cassidy, Streit 
' ' ' . ~ I l ' *.
and Kennedy recorded a 2:04.5 time. 
In the high jump, Daday, Cassidy and Kennedy placed fourth with a combined jump of 8' 10" while Cassidy, Daday and Dettling jumped for a com­bined length of 36' 6.25" in the 
long jump. 
"Relay invitationals are al­ways fun. Everyone did a great job," said Belles coach Larry Szcechowski. "We are really looking forward to districts next Saturday at Huntington. The way we are improving, we are certain to peak there." 
l•
' 

AP Photo Both Harolds Snepsts (27} of the Detroit Red Wings and Mike Bullard 
(22) of the Calgary Flames start their Stanley Cup playoff series tonight. In Monday's Stanley Cup games, Montreal downed Boston 5-2 and Washington defeated New Jersey 3-1. 
Address 
continued from page 16 
Botham, a graduating member 
nold's team got by the tough Address defense to score five points, but Botham and crew weren't affected by a slight Headache and took the contest 21-5. 
"We have to work a little bit 
on the fundamentals," said 
Keller, "like offense and 
defense, before we take to the 
court again next season. 
"We went a little easy on them," Keller continued. "We didn't want them to get injured and jeopardize their pro careers." 
Almond Joy, Still not Afraid 
of Public Record, The Boxer 
Club and The Supreme Court 
also were winners today. 
SC\JLtJT\J~E~ 



~ail~ 
C~PLETE 
~~\~
1 

,., 
w. opec;o~~xeln Sculpt"'ed-P2PS
ATTRACTION IS BACK!! •-:ao•• 

page 12 The Observer Tuesday, April 19, 1988 
Peltier's attitude, hitting boost baseball team 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Peltier proved Murphy cor­to do much as a team offensive­
Assistant Sports Editor rect. The sophomore fired a ly. But with Peltier hitting 12­
shot up the middle that went of-20 last weekend, the Irish 
The situation last weekend at into centerfield, scoring two scored a total of 48 runs in four 
Jake Kline Field could not have runs and giving the Irish an in­games. 
been more pressure-filled. credible 12-11 comeback vic­"Since we got back from San 
Notre Dame's baseball team tory. Antonio (March 23), Peltier 
had rallied from an 11-3 ninth "It was great, and with my hadn't hit like he can, but he's 
inning deficit against Detroit to parents there, that made it such a good hitter that he still 
make the score 11-10. The bases more special," said Peltier, got his share of hits," said 
were loaded with one out. "but it wouldn't have been pos­Murphy. "Peltier was not hit­
Sophomore rightfielder Dan sible if everyone else hadn't ting the ball the way he could, 
Peltier stepped to the plate done their jobs. It was a big and he was hitting .360. Now, 
with the game on the line and win, and I was glad to be a part this past weekend, he's gotten
his family from Clifton Park, of it. back to his old hitting form, and 
N.Y., in the stands. "I heard Coach Murphy say I look for continued success." 
"I really don't view it in in the eighth inning, 'You never "The other guys get excited 
terms of runners being in know,' and that just summed it when he's hitting," Murphy 
scoring position because that up," Peltier continued. "We continued. "They know that 
will just put extra pressure on knew we could do it, especially our team's going well if Pel­
you. Just hit the ball hard whe­when things started going well tier's hitting the ball, Hutson's 
ther there are runners in for us." hitting the ball and Pesavento's 
scoring position or not." The Irish had reason to be getting on base. That gets the 
Peltier fell behind in the confident in the ninth. Notre other players motivated." 
count with two strikes. If he hit Dame already had come back Peltier was among the Mid­into a double play, the Titans from a 7-2 ninth inning deficit western Collegiate Conference would escape with the victory. to beat Bowling Green and had leaders in several offensive If he struck out, Detroit would cut an 11-2 Purdue to 11-7 in the categories before last have two batters out and the ninth inning earlier this season. weekend's games. With the momentum. The comebacks have helped sparkling performance at 
"When I'm up there, I think the Irish earn a record of 23-16, home against the Titans, his 
hit the ball somewhere hard. which they will take to Western numbers look even more im­
When you start thinking you're Michigan for a single game at posing. The right fielder, who 
going to strike out, you usually 3:00 this afternoon. has played every inning of 
do. The best thing to do is have Peltier is quick to point out every game since starting his 
a positive attitude." that part of the reason for these Notre Dame career, is batting 
As Peltier hit foul ball after patented Irish comebacks is .384. In 39 games, he has driven foul ball, first-year Irish coach the aggressive style of play in 45 runs, hit four home runs Pat Murphy knew he had the Notre Dame has adopted under and smashed 15 doubles (his Titans right where he wanted Murphy this season. Another next will break the school them. part, as Murphy will readily record). 
"Dan has a great mental out­admit, is the big offensive pro­He has managed to record look. Because he takes every duction of Peltier and seniors these kinds of hitting stats even at bat so seriously and works Tim Hutson and Pat though he is adjusting to a new so hard at every bat, when the Pesavento. position in the field. A natural pressure situation is on it's just When those hitters have first baseman who still plays another at bat for him." slumped, the Irish have failed first base in the summer, Pel-
Baseball roundup 
•


White Sox w1n 4th straight 
Associated Press Tigers 4, Royals 2 Leonard's single in the 12th in­ning Monday night, giving the Ivan Calderon hit a two-run Giants a 6-3 victory over the homer and Carlton Fisk fol­A double by Tom Brookens Cincinnati Reds in Cincinnati. 
lowed with a solo shot in the triggered a two-run sixth in­fourth inning as the Chicago ning Monday as the Detroit Red Sox 4, Rangers 3 White Sox won their fourth Tigers beat the Kansas Royals straight game 4.{) over the 4-2 in Detroit for a rare victory Seattle Mariners Monday night over Floyd Bannister. 
Mike Greenwell's sacrificein Seattle. Bannister, 2-1, who had al­fly in the bottom of the ninthDave LaPoint, 2-1, pitched lowed just four hits this season inning drove in Wade Boggsseven shuotut innings and Bill coming into the game, had won and gave the Boston Red Sox aLong pitched the last two in­12 of his previous 18 decisions 4-3 victory over the Texasnings. against the Tigers. 

Rangers in a rain-delayed game Monday in Boston. 

Athletics 5, Angels 4
Phi Illes 10, Mets 7 

Boggs had walked and gone DeWayne Buice balked home to third when Jim Rice doubled Chris James drove in three the winning run with two outs off Mitch Williams, 0-1. 
runs with his first home run of 
in the eighth inning, capping
the season and a sacrifice fly Dodgers 6, Padres 0
Oakland's rally for a 5-4 victory
as the Philadelphia Phillies 
over California Monday night 
outlasted the New York Mets in Oakland. 
Tim Leary pitched a three­10-7 in New York on Monday hitter, struck out a career-highnight to snap a seven-game Giants 6, Reds 3 11 batters and hit a two-runlosing streak. 

single Monday night as the LosVon Hayes and Lance Par­Kevin Mitchell's sacrifice fly Angeles Dodgers beat the San rish each had a pair of RBI as put San Francisco ahead, Will Diego Padres 6-0 at Los An­Philadelphia won for the first Clark doubled home another geles.

time since beating the Mets 9-3 run and scored on Jeffrey on April 9. 
Yankees 18, Twins 5 
Jack Clark broke out of an 0­
to Our

for-10 slump with three hits and three RBI and Dave Winfield Phoenician continued his hot hitting with 
Sun-Goddess

three hits and four RBI monday night as the New York Yankees routed Minnesota 18-5 in Min­
"May the 10 go

neapolis. The Yankees, who haven't down before the scored as many runs in six 
rest come up"

years, had 20 hits. Every New York starter had at least one hit, one run and one RBI in sup­
Love, Pat, JoAnn, Paulx2,

port of winner Charles Hudson, 
Bill, Asako, Bland, Melissa, 

1-0, who allowed three hits in 
BJ, Elias and your favorite

seven innings in relief of inef­
. ~,.·,:' ~>} ."J'<c 
~ 

After enjoying a big weekend against Detroit, Dan Peltier (42) has watched his hitting statistics soar along with the Notre Dame baseball team's record. Peltier went 12-for-20 In last weekend's four-game series with Detroit. 
tier has had to play rightfield legiate players that uses at Notre Dame. wooden bats and attracts flocks 
"It's been a transition," said of professional scouts every Murphy. "We've made him a year, is another step in Pel­rightfielder; we haven't given tier's goal to reach the profes­
him a choice. He hasn't had a sional ranks. Murphy wouldn't lot of experience out there. be surprised at all to see Pel­
"He's going to play in the tier, who will be nominated for Cape Cod League this summer, Academic All-American and he'll be playing first base," status, eventually reach that Murphy continued. "There's a level. possibility Dan could move to "He's a very mature individ­first base next year with Tim ual, and he's a winner," Hutson leaving, but that still Murphy said. "I think remains up in the air depending he'll definitely be drafted. 
on what our freshmen do." Don't be surprised if you see The Cape Cod League, a sum­him on TV some day, and it will mer league for the top col-be due to his hard work alone." 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer ,JMt advertising. JUt 0 Call 239-6900 ~ 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
THEOLOGY AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Fall 1988 
ELECTIYES Faith and Modem Life Martin MWF 12:15 pm Thomas Merton Mal its W 6:30pm ~ 


SECOND REQUIRED COURSES ~§ 
fective starter Richard Dotson. ~~~~~~<Q'><O">o<O">o4i' 
The Catholic Experience Mize & Keegan Catholic Social Thought Incandela Catholic Social Thought (NEW) Keegan Tu 6:00 pm Catholic Faith and Life Martin Thinking the Future Weiss 
ND Students fulfill their second requirement in theology by taking any of the above second required courses. They fulfill their first requirement by taking RLST 200 at St. Mary's College. For times of all RLST courses, see schedule. 
ND Registration for SMC Theology Courses ND Seniors (88-89) Wednesday, April 20 7-9 p.m. 340 O'Shaughnessy 
ND Juniors (88-89) Thursday, April 21 7-9 p.m. 340 
O'Shaughnessy ND Sophomores (88-89) Tuesday, April 26 7-9 p.m. 340 O'Shaughnessy 
(on days following the above: 8:30 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 327 or 340 O'Shaughnessy 
partner in crime 


P----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, April19, 1988 The Observer page 13 


It's down to 32. 
Mond•y'a Raauha 
Step•n 1 The Explos1ve Package and Boomer over Son or 211 by a Pop A Shot over Check the Ice by 6 I'll Play, No I Won't over We B Bncklayers by 12 Pump Up !he Volume over Man In a Canoe Overboard by 2 
Stepan 2 

KinkOids over The Skirts by 3 Johnny Wad's last Shot over Air Dogger& by 
9 Yo.. .What Up? over Hans, Frans, and 3 Other... by 14 Lou's 2 QB's over Rick. Dan, and 3 Other ... by 5 
Stepan 3 5 Slamma Jarnma over Censored by 6 Who's Next ... over Putthe Power or an Upright... by 15 Butch and the BoxCBIB over SCB Club by 9 M1nahoomes over Men on Men by 7 
Stepan 4 

Uncle Fester and the Chiela over Do You Know Anything About... by 10 Whubua and His Four Friends over The Team That Couldn't Think... by 4 Put ~ In the Hole Again, Chief over The Groundskeepers. by t 0 4 Brothers and a Sweet J over The Ministers or Pain by 7 
Stepan 5 

Tofu's Last Gig over Mahc1ous Prosecution by 
2 
Corporate Raiders over The Tors by 7 Top Guns over Brace Yourselves 24-22 Chip's Bar over Tookey Masters by 6 
Stepan a 

Orange Bloasom Special over Carver High by 
12 
Retum of the Fugitive Guys over 5 Guys and 0 Gl~a: the NO... by 4 Swagga~. Bakker. and 3 Others over Lea Mrs and !he Retum or... by 9 Somlaw's Return over OB's Pub by 6 
Bookato"' 8 

Hahn's Funeral Home over Murph and the MagiC Tones by 12 Tequ1lla Whrte Lightening over Stoney Island Ave. by 7 Debi Gibson over 6 Guys That Can't Add by 4 Ferrence and 4 Guys Who Can ... over 5 Guys Who Can Lick ... by 6 
Booketo"' 10 SOS over Spidey's Nehers by 23-21 Boinkers over Swaggart, Reagan, and 3 Other Guys... by 15 
A Bad Dude, A Cool Buzz over Red, Red Wine by 3 Adworks' All-Stars over Larvae: Boon or Bane by4 
Tuaaday'ao...... 
Stepan 1 
5:30 -Pop a Shot at Senior Bar vs. Johnny Wad's 
last Shot 

6:15 -Pump Up the Volume VB. lou's 2 OB's 
...... 2 Who's Next... VB. Whubua and his 4 Friends 
5:30 -Who's Next... vs. Whubus and His 4 Friends 
6:15 -Minahoonies vs. 4 Brothers and a Sweet J 
Stepan 5 
5:30 -The Explosive Packages and Boomer vs. Kinkolds 
6:15 -I'll Play, No I Won't vs. Yo ... What Up? 
Stepo~n 8 
5:30 -5 Slamma Jamma vs. Uncle Fester and the Chiels 
6:15 -Butch and the Boxcars vs. Put it in the Hole Again, Chief 
Bookato"' 9 
5:30 -Corporate Raiders vs. Return of the Fugi­tive Guys 
6:15 -Chip's Bar vs. Somlaw's Retum 
Booketo"' 10 
5:30 -Tofu's last Gig VB. Orange Blossom Spe­cial 
6:15 -Ferrence and 4 Other Guys vs. Adworks' 
All Stars Lyone 11 
5:30 -Tequilla White Lightening VB. Swaggart, Reagan, and 3 Other Guys 
6:15 -Top Guns vs. Jimmy Swaggart, Jim Baker, 
and ... Lyon• 12 
5:30 -Hahn's Funeral Home vs. SOS 
6:15 -Debl Gibson You're Ours VB. A Bad Dude, A Cool Buzz 
For Something Completely Different ... 
€'.AD presents
~ '5·r':l'vlpS... Jat MAaY"S COLLEGE 
Monty Python's 
GRAHAM 





CHAPMAN 
Sun., April 24 
7:30p.m. 
O'Laughlin 
Auditorium 
Saint Mary's College Tickets Now on Sale 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office Ticket Stub, LaFortune Hall, Notre Dame Century Center Box Office 

All Seats Reserved: 510/55 Students 
Visa/MasterCard Orders and Information: 284-4626 


ND catches 'Scarlet' fever 
Golfers place 21st in Keplers on 'unforgiving' course 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
At the Kepler Intercollegiate Invitational this weekend, the Notre Dame golf team had to battle more than the obvious competition, as the Irish en­dured 54 holes of bitter cold at the Scarlet Course in Colum­bus, Ohio. 
Competing in the cold after enjoying a week of mild spring weather at home, Notre Dame's 21st-place finish out of 23 teams is not as surprising as it might first appear. 
Irish coach Noel O'Sullivan did not want to mask the team's performance with excuses, but conceded that the team was quite adversely affected by the weather. 
"The conditions worked on us mentally," said O'Sullivan. "It 

continued from page 16 
smooth assists to Rice and Peters. The coach assessed his own performance in a not-so­favorable light. 
"My head sees what has to be done in a certain situation," said Holtz, "but the problem is that my body doesn't react nearly as fast. It's like being on a flight to Chicago and not getting off the plane until Den­ver. In the last eight years I think I've touched a basketball twice--for Bookstore Basket­ball last year and this year." 
Holtz and his team will face seemed that it wasn't enough to simply want it. I'm not dis­appointed as a coach, but we were just pretty demoralized by the conditions." The favored Buckeyes from Ohio State took top honors in the tournament. The OSU elite overpowered the competition, turning in a three-day total of 

913. Taking a distant second was Kent State at 941, while Ball State placed third at 950. 
The Irish linksters turned in performances at 333-328-336 for a total of 996. After two days, Irish junior Doug Giorgio was in the top 10 with rounds of 81 and 74, but a third-round 93 hurt his chances at any medals as he ended with 248. The best overall performance came from junior Pat Mohan with 83­83-80 for a 246. Senior captain Dick Connelly finished at 82-88­81 for a 251, while freshman 
Pump Up The Volume, which features two more standouts from the Irish football team, defensive back George Streeter and flanker Mark Green, in today's action. Pump Up The Volume slipped past Man In A Canoe Overboard, 21­19, behind Green's eight points and a perfect 4-of-4 perfor­mance by Tim Smith. The game will be played at 6: 15 (Stepan 1) to allow those in­volved with spring football enough time to participate in both. 
"We really appreciate the way those who handle the scheduling give us the later games," said Holtz. "Our 


YEARBOOKS HAVE ARRIVED! 
The 1988 Dome will be distributed as follows: 
DATES: Tuesday-Friday, April 19-22 TIMES: 12:00-4:00 p.m. LOCATION: Behind the Band Building 
(next to LaFortune) 
on Tuesday through Friday, April 19-22, from 12:00 to 

4:00 p.m. Student ID's must be presented in order to receive a book. If a student wishes to pick up more than one book, more than one student ID must be presented. 

Paul Nolta had 87-84-90 for 261. Freshman Pat Kusek scored a 267 with 91-91-85. 
"The skill was there, but there were other factors," said O'Sullivan. "We were prepared physically, but not psychologi­cally. The results would have been different under other con­ditions, but the Scarlet is un­forgiving." 
Typical of the adversity was the performance of OSU's second man and son of golf legend Jack Nicklaus, Gary Nicklaus. The younger turned in scores of 90, 83 and 86 for a 259 and most likely merited a late night phone call for advice from the Golden Bear. 
Next week the Irish will look to fare better as they head to the Spartan Invitational in East Lansing, Mich. The Irish have a much better history at the Spartan, finishing third in 1979 and first in 1986. 
policy since I've been here is that Bookstore Basketball is what Notre Dame is all about and it's something everyone participates in and has fun in so it was important to let ou; players play as long as they don't miss practice for anyother reason." 
Other football players in­volved in a tough matchup today are Braxston Banks, An­thony Johnson and Bobby Carpenter of Yo... What Up? who face I'll Play, No I Won't, I'll Play, No I Won't, (Stepan 5, 6:15). Joe Hippler scored ten points for Yo... What Up in their 21-7 thrashing of Hans, Frans and Three Others ... yesterday while AI Martin hit 7-of-8 from the field to pace I'll Play, No I Won't in their quick 21-9 win cementing of We B Brick­layers. 
1n other action yesterday, Adworks All-Stars stopped Larvae: Boon or Bane, 21-17, but lost Mr. Bookstore 1987, John Buscher, for today's game with Ferrence and 4 Other... . Buscher twisted his ankle during the win but finished the game. 
"I came down after a dunk," began Buscher, "no ... just kid­ding. Actually I had gone up for a rebound and came down on somebody's foot. I had it checked at the hospital and nothing's broken or anything, so I should be back out there on Wednesday. 
"We're sort of the New York Yankees of this tournament," continued Buscher. "We've had a lot of lineup changes in a short time." 
The changes include Gary Voce's decision to play, then not to play, then to play again, as well as the addition of Ricky Watters and the absence of Cedric Fili(aro.

r----:----, 
, Allied t t Shipping t 
t~:-et us pack and ship you~ telectronic equipmenlt tstereo, etc. direct to you~ thorne by UPS-Emery. t 
t 219-277-7616 t t Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fri t tUniversity Commonst t SR 23 & Hickory t t Western Union t l __A~a.,!la_2!~ __t 
• __J' 
r­
• By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis season hit a high point last weekend with impressive wins over Indiana State and Ohio University. 
Notre Dame defeated In­diana State 6-3, then knocked off Ohio by a 7-2 score. The win over Ohio was particularly im­pressive as the Irish were slight underdogs going into the match. "We were really hur­ting coming into this weekend," said first-year Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "Mike Wal­lace, Dave Reiter, Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs were all out. That meant I had to start four freshmen in singles, and it worried me." 
Bayliss' spirits were lifted when the freshmen on his squad gave him a pep talk. 
"They basically told me they'd take care of every­thing,"said Bayliss. The Irish then went on to have a victorious weekend, led by the sparkling play of freshmen Ryan Wenger, Paul Odland, 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, April 19, 1988 

Irish men's tennis wins two . Sports Briefs 
Strickland heads for N BA early 
Associated Press "These people aren't ready. fall term. The seniors aren't ready," he And his personal difficulties added. "People don't realize went on from there, which in­how good the NBA is." cluded a much-publicized New 
Strickland closed out the Year's altercation with a dor­season with two of his better mitory assistant, and several performances in the NCAA late-season benchings as a tournament, scoring 19 points result of missed practices and and adding 13 assists against other disciplinary problems. Wichita State, then 19 points and eight assists in a losing ef­Even so, Strickland led the fort against Kansas State. Blue Demons to a 22-8 record 
But he began the season on by averaging 20 points and a sour note, being ruled nearly eight assists per game, academically ineligible for the in addition to adding 75 steals. 
David Kuhlman amd Shaun Sparkman. 
Against Indiana State the Irish were favorites on paper, but with all the injuries plagu­ing the team, it looked to be a close match. The Irish bench responded with a resounding 6­3 win over Indiana State on Sat­urday. 
It turned out to be a rela­tively easy match for Notre Dame, which took five out of six singles matches. Junior stalwart Brian Kalbas trounced Claude Servant in straight sets 6-4, 6-2. Senior Sean O'Brien defeated Brad Begley 6-1, 6-2. Ryan Wenger won over Dallas Kelsey 6-2, 6-3. 
In other singles play, Paul Odland and Shaun Sparkman won in straight sets. The only Irish loss in singles came at the hands of Mark Smith, who edged Dave Kuhlman 6-4, 5-7, 6-1. 
In doubles action against In­diana State, the Notre Dame team of Arnell Gallanosa and Ron Shashy defeated Smith and Kelsey 6-1, 3-6, 6-3. Notre Dame lost the other two doubles matches by close scores. 
The Irish next took on Ohio University on Saturday after­noon. This match was expected to be much closer than the match with Indiana State. Notre Dame played a superb match, working as a cohesive unit to win 7-2 despite the team's injuries. In singles, Odland, Kuhlman and Sparkman all won over Chris Petersen, Matt Kline and Fred Krase, respectively. The other singles win came from junior star Brian Kalbas, who defeated Jay Ethridge in straight sets 6-3, 7-5. 
Notre Dame swept all three doubles matches from Ohio University to wrap up the vic­tory. The ailing Dave Reiter teamed up with Arnell Gal­lanosa to beat Ethridge and Donase 6-3, 1-6, 6-1. Kalbas and Ryan Wenger won in three sets, as did the freshmen tandem of Kuhlman and Odland. 
Notre Dame now is 17-10 and will finish the season by the end of this month. 

The Innertube Water Polo tournament is taking any applications for teams who did not sign up during the regular registration period. Call Barb at 289-5920. -The Observer 
The Blue-Gold Game will take place Saturday, April 23, at 1:30 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium. Students get in free upon presentation of a student ID card at Gates 15 and 16 only . General admission tickets to this 58th annual sprmg foot­ball game are on advance sale at Gate 10 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Gate 10 of the JACC. Adult tickets cost $3 ($4 on game day), while youth tickets cost $1.50 ($2 on game day). -The Observer 
The club sports scene will be the topic o~ ~peaking of Sports at 10 p.m. tonight on WVFI-640 AM. J~mmg Greg Guffey, Rick Rietbrock and Frank Mastro will be Barb Mooney of the softball club and team members from the men's volleyball club, women's soccer club and the field hockey teams. Call 239-6400 to discuss the recent moves within the athletic department involving these teams. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo club will have a meeting to elect officers for next year on Wednesday at 7 p._m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Any questions should be dtrected to Marty Watts at 288-8732. -The Observer 
LeAnne Morris won the women's grad student division of the Irish Spring Runs last Saturday with at time of 21:17. -The Observer 
The women's rugby team will have _practice Wednesday April 20, at 4:30 p.m. on Stepan Fteld. All members a~d anyone else interested in joining the team should attend. -The Observer 
The ND crew team will hold a meeting for both varsity and novice members on Wednesday at 7:45 P:m. in Room 118 of Nieuwland Science Hall to pay for T -shrrts and the Texas trip. Bring raffle tickets. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of L~For­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day pr10r to publication. -The Observer 


··­

SUMMER IN CHICAGO AT Ill FOR 137 WAYS TO: 
111' Get a head start 111' Fill prerequisites 111' Make up coursework 111' Speed up graduation 
• 
137 undergraduate or graduate courses to choose from 

• 
8 week summer session-June 13 to August 6 

• 
Day and evening classes 

• 
Convenient locations: Main Campus, liT West and Extension Centers 

• 
Ample FREE parking 


FOR INFORMATION CALL TOLL FREE: 
In Illinois 1-800-572-1587 Outside Illinois 1-800-448-2329 



NIG TCLUB 
Tuesday is University Night Only $1.00 Cover and 10¢ Draft 
DON'T MISS IT! 
Wed. Night Tight T -shirt Contest $50 for Men $50 for Women Plus $}.00 Bottled Beer 
-----~~----------------­
Tuesday, April 19, 1988 The Observer 
page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS

noon: Seminar, "Literature and Society in Brazil," by Enylton SaRego, University 
1 Destined 

of New Mexico, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
6 Horse color 
10 Lose Interest 14 Spry 

12: 10-12:55 p.m.: Art Noontalk, "The Art of Teaching: Sixteenth-Century Allegorical 
Prints and Drawings," by Robert Coleman, ND, Print, Drawing, and Photography 
15 Jason's craft

Gallery. 
16 Nastase

12:15 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Spinal Cord Regeneration in Lower Ver­
17 Small sponge tebrates," by Dr. Sidney Simpson, University of Illinois, Chicago, Galvin Life 
cake 19 "-Kleine

Sciences Auditorium. 
Nachtmuslk"

2:20-3:35 p.m.: Mathematics Department Short course on "Maximal Subgroups and 
20 "We -the

Representation Theory,'' by Professor Gary Seitz, Room 300 Computing Center and 
World" 
21 Black 22 Splinter

Mathematics Building. Classes are on Tuesdays and Thursdays, April12 to May 5. 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Rate Constants of Non­
24 Cushions

Arrhenius Chemical Reactions," by Professor Morton Kostin, Princeton University, 
25 Priest's

Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 
residence 

4:30p.m.: College of Science John A. Lynch Lectures in the Biochemistry, Biophysics 
26 Smart and Molecular Biology Program, "Enzymatic Studies of Initiating a Chromosome," 
29 Lure 30 Make an

by Professor Arthur Kornberg, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
embankment

6:30p.m.: Hall Presidents Council meeting, Fisher Hall 24-hour lounge. 
31 Confront 7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Classics--Video Art 
32 Certain radio operators 36 Writer Waugh

Program," (1972-82), BW and color, 148 minutes, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m.: Department of English Bilingual Reading in Serbian and English by 
37 Collins'

Professors John Matthias and Vladeta Vuckovic of "The Battle of Kosovo" in celebra­
"The -In

tion of the publication by Swallow Press of their new translation, Hesburgh Library 
White" 
38 Part of QED 39 Lebanese

Lounge. 
8 p.m.: SMC Department of Music Concert, SMC Wind Ensemble, Professor Roger 
town

Briggs, director, Little Theatre. 
40 Skating feat

9:45p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film Series, "The Working Class Goes 
41 Script to Heaven," 1975, color, 91 minutes, directed by Elio Petri, Italy, Grand Prize, 
direction 42 Willow

Cannes Film Festival, Annenberg Auditorium. 
44 Sock 45 Sea birds 48 Bohemian 49 Makes Into 

M 
law 
50 Diving duck 51 Hair style 

T 
A 54 Milan cash 55 Alluring photographs 
H 
58 Afr. homblll 59 Arab port 
60 Moroccan city 61 Snick or ­82 Sibley or pup 63 Implores

1 
DOWN0 1 FOR's dog 
1 
2 Kelp extract 3 Ebb or neap 



Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
ft.f/5, W€'Re E3I?OI<E, 

MY CI1Mfll/6tl IINP MY I?VNNING MII"Te 
me flJU ~51/t.T5 5MEU. 
15 IN 1l7TliL. 15 IN liN 11/..COHfJt./C. 
P/5/IRRIIY. COM--€!?... !?Ct.lfiiCX/5 
I
'Tlf:IINC£. 
I 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 


All Rights Reserved 
4 TV Tarzan 
Ron ­5 Bold 6 Series 7 Binge 8 Ripen 9 VIkings 
10 Dream of 
profit 11 Extant 12 Cruise ship 13 Suspicious 18 -500 
23 Circuit 24 Cinch 25 Transfer 
sticker for short 26 Obnoxious 
child 27 Depend 28 State 
positively 29 Less wild 31 Outwits 33 Seed coat 34 Invented 
Gary Larson 
35 Galley note 46 Catkin 
37 Paneling 50 A Connery 41 Belg. city 51 All­43 Rest 52 Approval 
44 War god 53 Wagers 45 Stones 56 Ancient realm 46 Labor group leHers 47 Broad comedy 57 Limo 
Far Side 
...but the )(!'(refo.r,y ofState rh>t·I•II••A to comment oh fhe latest rou.ndof fa/Irs ••. 
•.. ,-1nd "(oday fheA-1 L;feRaftCo.issued 
a s~teme11 t recal/;fiJ Sqooo of iis small rubber boats due to def~t.ve 9/ue us~r/ in +heir mcmufadure, C4tJSing fhe boats io lose air and grt:Uiuolly Sin/( over q 
of q few days •.. 
..

And now let's go fo Lou :kckson for whaft.s nappeni"!J in sports 

4--1 
• 











Sports
page 16 Tuesday, April 19, 1988 
•

Bookstore action heats up 1n last week 

Routs are aplenty in women's play 
By JANE SHEA Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

Action resumed Monday afternoon at Saint Mary's in the Women's Bookstore Basketball Tournamement. 
Three teams won easily by the score of 21-2, including We Won Interhall, which beat We Just Want to Score. 
Penthouse Playmates II and Five Lyonites who Bite won their games over Brian Boitano and Four other Female Athletes and Sparky's Franchise, respectively. 



IDMf·IIS···
Millis•,••· 
Three teams had even easier victories when their opponents did not show. 
Beefer's Chicks finally beat Do Not Loft Balls in a game that went into overtime after lasting for more than an hour. 
Despite the fine defensive effort of Steffanie Keller, We Can't Play Tonight We Have a Head­ache lost to Give Me Your Address There. 
Address looks like a good contender for the 1988 women's title. The team is led by several veterans of Bookstore and varsity play. Sandy 
see ADDRESS, page 11 
Garrett qualifies for NCAA's with record time 
By WILLIAM STEGM:EIER Sports Writer 
Dan Garrett qualified for the NCAA's with a school-record time in the 5000-meter event, highlighting a successful per­formance for the Notre Dame track team at Stanford last Sat­urday. 
Irish coach Joe Piane was pleased with his team's perfor­mance in the meet, where Notre Dame competed with Stanford and Washington. 
"Though no team score was kept, the team, as a whole, did reasonably well,"Piane said. "The most impressive race of

• 
the day for Notre Dame was the 5000-meter run, where we 

swept the first three spots." two people to work with, in Ron Garrett won the race in and Mike," said Garrett. "The 
13:53.52. Sophomore Mike three of us, together, were able O'Connor took second in a time 
of 13:58.84 and junior Ron Markezich finished third, with a time of 14:00.25. For their ef­forts, all three men qualified for the outdoor IC4A's. 
Garrett shattered the previ­ous school-record time of 
14: 10.00. The co-captain from Clarence Center, N.Y., also be­came the first Irish performer this season to qualify for the NCAA's. A time of 13:57.00 or better is needed in his event to 


qualify. 
Dan Garrett

Garrett attributed his suc­cess at Stanford to teamwork. to compensate for the fact we "The key factor in my setting had to run into a headwind on the school record was that I had the straightaway." 

Rice still holds starting slot 
Irish QB's Graham, Rice both looking to improve 
By MARTY BURNS Sports Writer 
Notre Dame quarterback Kent Graham may be able to pass the football, but he hasn't been able to pass teammate Tony Rice in the race to be the starting signal-caller for the 
Irish. 


Men's field narrows to 32 title dreams 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
It all comes down to six days of basketball. 
Bookstore Basketball XVII kicked off its final 
week yesterday as 32 teams advanced to today's 
fifth round action in hopes of surviving to this 
weekend's culmination of the world's largest 
basketball tournament. 
Mter today's games, the 'Sweet 16' will ad­
vance to play on Wednesday, then eight remain­
ing teams will have a day off on Thursday 
before the tournament resumes on Friday and 



lilllllf11 
over the weekend. 

Among those who advanced to today's action 
were Lou's 2 QBs And Two Blind Guys and 
Pump Up The Volume, who will face each other 
today. Lou's 2 QB's ... survived a scare from 
Rick, Dan and ... ,pulling out a 21-16 win behind 
Jeff Peters' 10-of-11 shooting performance. 
Lou's 2 QBs, Kent Graham and Tony Rice, 
combined for eight points while George Baldus 
added three for the winners. Lou Holtz went 
0-for-5 from the field but did dish out some 
see HOLTZ, page 13 
Garrett is pleased with the progress of the 5000-meter trio. 
"I think each of us is improv­ing vastly," said Garrett. "We have each dropped our time by about 15 to 18 seconds." 
A school record also was set in the hammer throw. Senior Tom Mick broke his own record of 173 feet, set earlier this season, with a throw of 182'6" at Stanford. Mick placed first in the event and also gained a berth in the IC4A's. 
Other individual winners for the Irish included senior Rick Mulvey and freshman Ron Culp. Mulvey recorded a time of 8:57.32 in the 3000-meter steeplechase and Culp took the­400-meter run in 48.97 seconds. 


Both now have qualified for the IC4A's. 
Not to be outdone, sophomore Glenn Watson was victorious in the 110-meter high hurdles with a time of 14.52 seconds. Fresh­man Ryan Mihalko, though finishing third in the javelin, still qualified for the IC4A's with a throw of 209 feet. 
The Irish will participate in the Indiana Intercollegiates this weekend. Coach Piane is wary, yet optimistic, of his team's chances at Indiana. 
"It's tough to compete 
against the likes of a Indiana 
and Purdue," Piane stated. 
"Yet I'm confident we'll have 
some strong individual perfor­
mances this weekend." 
•·. 
workout spring season, which concludes Sunday with the playing of the annual Blue-Gold game, Rice has a firm grip on the No. 1 offense, thanks to the sophomore's experience and elusive running ability. 

Graham, a 6'5" freshman with superior passing skills but slower feet out of the pocket, remains as he finished in 1987 --right behind. 
"There's still competition at the quarterback spot," said Irish coach Pete Cordelli, who along with coach Jim Strong has spent much of his time evaluating the signal-callers. "But Tony has moved the team consistently and he's No. 1 right now. We're not necessar­ily looking for a quarterback who can make the big play, but one who can get you out of the bad one. And Tony's been the most consistent doing that." 
The speedy Rice frequently turned broken plays into big gains last season, leading the Irish to five wins in seven games after senior starter Terry Andrysiak went down with a broken collarbone. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz and his staff, however, never felt com­fortable allowing the strong· armed but erratic Rice to put the ball in the air. As a result, the predominantly ground­oriented offense became predictable and impotent late in the season. 
"We can't win being a one­dimensional team," Holtz vowed before the start of spring workouts. "We've got to be able to either throw or run the ball when we want to against the caliber of opposition we face from week to week." 
Graham, whose 16-of-24 pass­ing for 248 yards in seven games of the 1987 campaign made him a strong candidate 


The Observer I Trey Aeymond
for the starting role, passed the 

Tony Rice (9) he• maintained hla hold on the alerting quarterback 
position thus far In spring football practices. Marty Burns discusses 
see IRISH, page 10 the Irish quarterbacking altuatlon at left. 



