
------~--------~--------­
S B d, S I ng has sprung
IACCENT: outh en s tudebaker museum ~e~~ess~;y~YHi~~din~~~m~~~ 
60s. Cloudy Thursday with a 
IVIEWPOINT: U.S. policy in Honduras I 0~_;~_::____...;;;...,
._~_~:_h~-~~-;~_:_i~-n~n-edo_~~-~e_ 


VOL. XXI, NO. 110 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
RA hospitalized 
•

1n South Padre 
driver of the vehicle that struck By MARK MCLAUGHLIN McNeil. "We have very little to 
News Editor 
go on," said Sergeant John A hit-and-run accident at Stetar of the South Padre Is­South Padre Island left a Notre land police department. "He 
Dame student seriously in­was struck by a small white jured last Thursday. pickup truck," Stetar added. 
Tom McNeil, a resident as­Police in the South Texas sistant in Flanner Hall, was re­region and the local area have ported in good condition Mon­been sent a description of the day at Valley Regional Medical vehicle, according to Stetar. 
Center, near Brownsville, "There's a lot of cars that an­Texas. McNeil had recently swer that description, though," been moved out of an intensive he said. "The way the car hit, 
care unit. there's probably not much 
"Luckily for him, the injuries damage to the car." were much less severe than Several Notre Dame stu­they could have been," said dents saw the pickup hit 
McNeil's mother, whohadbeen McNeil, according to Stetar, staying with McNeil at the but none were able to describe hospital, Monday. "He's doing the driver. 
pretty good." McNeil was struck uncon­
McNeil sustained a severe scious in the accident, but concussion, whiplash and con­came to in the ambulance that tusions over much of his body. took him to Valley Regional, According to Mrs. McNeil, his Stetar said. eyes were swollen shut, and his Brother Michael Smith, rec­
The Observer I Brian Mast

Spring Into action forehead "was scraped up tor of Flanner Hall, said he pretty bad." found out about the incident 
The familiar campus rites of spring are evident when lighted by annual events such as Bookstore Basket­
There appears to be little
winter weather disappears. On South Quad several ball and the Beaux Arts Ball. 
see PADRE, page 3
hope of apprehending the
students prepare for the spring sporting season, high-

Student visit to South Africa delayed over visa denial 
By ROBYN SIMMONS scheduled departure date on spent time with Archbishop conclusions about the current consulate) said I would have no News Staff March 12. Tutu," said Schadek. "(Tutu's situation." problem, and I would receive "It's been about one year assistants) were making ar­Schadek feels that his politi­approval before my departure, 
Current tensions in South that my preparations and plans rangements for me to stay, cal interest may be the source and then Archbishop Tutu was Africa have delayed the visa have been going on, and I've most likely in the bishop's of his difficulties. "Everyone arrested, and suddenly the gov­approval of one Notre Dame got sponsors here at Notre court," he said. that I have spoken with who has ernment became unrespon­student attempting to visit that Dame," said Schadek, whose "This is my own initiative. I gone as a traveler had no prob­sive," Schadek said. nation on a trip sponsored in trip sponsors include the Notre want to see the apartheid sys­lem whatsoever." "On my visa application, I part by the University admin­Dame administration, Grace tem in action," said Schadek. Shortly before Schadek's had to specify what I would be istration. Hall, Campus Ministry, stu­"I think Archbishop Tutu is one scheduled trip, Tutu was ar­doing and who I would be in 
Mike Schadek, a sophomore dent government and the of the ideal individuals to speak rested for staging an anti­contact with," Schadek said. government major, planned a Mansfield Soroptimist Club in with," he said. apartheid rally, which was "In the past week, every time two week trip to South Africa Schadek's hometown in Ohio. "I want to go and find out banned by the government. I would speak with them, (a in March. Schadek applied for Schadek was planning on more about apartheid in the Tutu was detained for several representative of the consul­his visa in early February at meeting Nobel Peace Prize hopes that I will be a more ef­hours and released. ate) was almost curt with me." the South African consulate in winner Archbishop Desmond fective spokesman here." he After Tutu's arrest, obtain­The visa was referred to Chicago. Schadek was told his Tutu, an anti-apartheid ac­said. "I want to draw my own ing a visa became increasingly 
see TUTU, page 6

visa would be ready before his tivist. "I would have actually difficult for Schadek. "(The 
Sandinista government proposes 

Co-valedictorians chosen extended cease-fire with Contras 
for '88 graduating class 
ster Victory Hugo Tinoco told move into cease-fire zones still
Associated Press 
point average through seven By PATRICKreporters there are 3,300 to be determined. 
semesters of study at NotreO'CONNOKSAPOA, Nicaragua -The prisoners the government con­It said the government Dame. Chapski, a senior En­
Staff Reporter
Sandinista government and siders eligible for release un­should grant "total and uncon­glish major from Elgin, Ill., 
Contra rebels announced der the program. ditional amnesty" as soon as One thousandth of a grade held a 3.985 at the end of proposals Tuesday for an ex­
the truce takes effect, allowing point separates co­seven semesters. 
tended cease-fire that would in­anyone who left Nicaragua for valedictorians Gilberta Each student earned A's clude amnesty and steps political reasons to "rejoin the Marxuach and Michael in all courses but one, said toward a lasting peace. political, economic and social Chapski, but both will be Jones. Both Chapski and 
The leftist government's pro­process without any condi­honored as valedictorians of Marxuach received an A­
posal, outlined in a statement tions." 
the Notre Dame Class of in the same course, she said. 
to journalists on the second day The rebels also want to join 
1988. However, Marxuach took 
of peace talks at this post on a national dialogue between the For the first time in more seven more credit hours the Costa Rican border, calls Sandinistas and their internal than 10 years, Notre Dame than Chapski and thus has for a 30-day truce with the political opponents while the will have co-valedictorians, the higher GPA, said Jones. 
rebels intended for them to lay cease-fire lasts. The govern­said Sister John Miriam "In order that equitydown their arms and "rejoin ment also would allow rebel Jones, associate provost. would be served," said Nicaraguan society." leaders to participate in na­Marxuach, a senior Pro­Jones, they were both named 
Daniel Ortega
It also provides for the tional reconciliation talks. 
gram of Liberal Studies valedictorian. 
release of a political prisoner The Contra proposal calls for Both proposals call for inter­major from Puerto Rico,for each rebel accepting am­a 45-day truce starting on April national monitoring of the maintained a 3.986 grade see CLASS, page 6 nesty. Deputy Foreign Mini-1, in which rebel fighters would r>ease-fire. 

-----~ ---~.
-------------------------~-~-----..-------­
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, March 23, 1988 


Of Interest 
Art Buchwald tickets for his lecture titled "While the Gipper Slept" are available today in The Cellar in the LaFortune Student Center or in the American Studies of­fice on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The lecture is scheduled for today at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. -The Observer 
The Concert Band presents its annual spring concert tonight at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
A ceremony dedicating the collected columns and memorabilia of the late Red Smith will take place today at 4 p.m. in the Rare Book Room of the Hesburgh Library. Following the presentation of a television profile of Red Smith, remarks will be made by Robert Miller, director of Notre Dame's university libraries, and by Red Smith's son, Terrence Smith, a 1960 Notre Dame alumnus and White House correspondent for CBS News. -The Observer 
The Bridge Club will meet tonight from 11 to midnight 
in the basement of Alumni Hall. Beginners are welcome. 
-The Observer 
Engineers' Week continues today with engineer's lunch at both dining halls, a crossword puzzle race at 3 
p.m. and the Pinewood Derby at 6:30p.m., followed by a pizza party and the Dating Game. All events will take place in the Engineering Student Center. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will distribute ticket vouchers for its spring concert today beginning at 1 p.m. at the Washington Hall Manager's Office. The concert will be held Friday at 8:15p.m. in Washington Hall. Vouchers are free, and there is a limit of two per person. -The Observer 
Auditions for "Gangsters" will be today and Thursday at 7 p.m. in the lab theatre of Washington Hall. There are three roles available for both black and white actors. No experience is necessary. -The Observer 
Toastmasterswillmeettonightat7: 30in233Hayes-Healy Center. Director of Career and Placement Services Kitty Arnold will be the guest speaker. -The Observer 
Colonel Povilus will speak in the Hesburgh Library auditorium today at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
A jump rope-a-thon to raise funds for the American Heart Association will be held on Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. Dorm representatives will be collecting donations this week, and donations will also be accepted at Stepan on Sunday. The event is sponsored by student government. For more information contact Steffanie Kel­ler at 3617 or 239-7668. -The Observer 
Cavanaugh Hall Productions will present "The Best Man," a political satire by Gore Vidal, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The show begins at 7:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. Admission is free, but dona­tions will be taken for the Andy Sowder Fund. -The Ob­server 
"Religion and the Founders" is the title of a lecture to be presented by ·Professor Thomas Pangle of the department of political science of the University of Toronto. The lecture will be held Thursday in Room 112 of the Law School. -The Observer 
AISEC will be holding the second organizational meeting on Monday, March 28 at 7 p.m. in Room 121 of Hayes-Healy. All interested members are asked to attend in order to prepare for upcoming events. For more information call Warren at 2482 or Scott at 1305. -The Observer 
Junior World Fencing Championships needs volunteers to serve as hospitality students at Notre Dame during Easter Break. If interested, stop by Room 309 of the Administration Building and fill out a general infor­mation form any time this week. -The Observer 
American Catholic Studies seminar presents Professor Steve Ochs of Georgetown Preparatory School speaking on "Desegregating the Altar: The Struggle for Black Catholic Priests, 1854-1960" in the Hesburgh Library lounge at 4:15p.m. Thursday. -The Observer 
-Ih_,e-O.bse.~~r-­
------&.-=Y=-'-' --­
Design Editor ............... Robert Luxem Viewpoint Layout ..... Laura Manzi Design Assistant ... . .. .. Annette Rowland Accent Copy Editor. .. .. .. . Susan Buckley Typesetters...... .. .... Jolm Rossmiller Accent Layout. .. ..... Kathy Gliwa ..................................... Mark Ridgeway Typist............ .. ...... Will Zamer Layout ............... .............. Kerri Owens ND Day Editor ..... Carrie McCall New• Editor........... ............ Liz Panzica SMC Day Editor .......... Suzanne Devine Copy Editor .................... Michelle Dall Photographer.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Brian Mast Sport• Copy Editor. ........... Pete Skiko Sports Wednesday Editor .. Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Syl Flood Sports Wednesday Layout .. Joe Zadrozny 
ne Olleener (USPS S99 2--4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duri111 exam and vacation periods. ne 0'-ner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writilll ne OlleerYcr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
ne Olleener is a member of ne A.lodalld Pial. All reproduction riahts arc raerved. 
The Observer: It's 


everyone's 
A lot of my friends and classmates ask me questions like these about The Observer: "So, you work for The Observer. What do you do?" "I've always wanted to get involved. What could I do?" 
The latter is not an easy question to answer. As a business that is open 20 hours a day and employs more than 200 students, The Observer is more than just a bunch of people who like to write. The Observer offers something for every­one. 
The following is a day in the life of The Ob­server. It will help some decide where they would fit in best, and it will give others a general idea of exactly what goes on behind the scenes. 
8 a.m.: The Observer offices open for the day. During the morning and afternoon, the business portion of the paper is handled. Bills are sent 
to advertisers, checks are calls are made to advertisers, etc. 
10 a.m.: The Observer that was produced the day before arrives. 10,000 copies are distributed to various places around campus. 
1 p.m.: The day editor arrives. The day editor assigns stories to reporters and helps people who have questions about the paper. 
3 p.m.: The ad design crew begins work. Most of the ads in the newspaper require design and make-up by The Observer staff. 
3:30p.m.: The office begins to get really busy around this time. Reporters come in to write stories, and editors arrive to answer messages, make calls, check on the progress of their sec­tions and help out reporters. Typists also arrive to type campus events, letters to the editor, etc. (Reporters are required to type their own stories). 
4 p.m.: The Viewpoint copy editor arrives to copy-edit the Viewpoint columns and letters. The Accent copy editor begins the Accent page. 
5 p.m.: The assistant Viewpoint editor begins the production of the Viewpoint section. Head­lines are written, copy is chosen and the pages are designed. 
6 p.m.: The Viewpoint layout person arrives to lay out the Viewpoint section. The afternoon typesetter arrives to typeset the copy that has been copy-edited thus far. The assistant news editor, sports copy editor and news copy editor arrive and begin to copy-edit and design their sections for the next day. 
7:30 p.m. : The Accent section has been com­pleted. The Accent layout person arrives to lay out the section. The afternoon typesetter leaves. 
9 p.m.: By this time, the editors that arrived at six have enough of their sections completed to begin layout. The layout of the paper is un­

newspaper 

dertaken by a design editor and an assistant design editor; however, they are sometimes as­sisted by a layout staff. The evening typesetter, the photographer and the artists begin work. 
From here until the finish, there are no set times. Many factors will influence the time the paper is completed. Late-breaking stories, equipment problems, a lot of copy to edit, etc. can all contribute to a later completion time. A 16 page paper will be finished around two in the morning. 
5 a.m.: This is when the paper is picked up to be printed. In other words, this is our absolute deadline. The actual printing is the only part of the process stude.nts do not take part in. 
All the editors stay until their sections are completed. Because this can make for some pretty late nights, there is a different staff every night. There are some, however, who spend every day working on the paper. These people sometimes spend more than 40 hours per week working at the newspaper. 
Hopefully, this has helped answer some of your questions (if you had any) about The Ob­server. If something interests you, or if you have any questions, feel free to come by the offices and ask. 

STUDENTS ARE CORDIALL V INVITED TO MONTHLY VOCATION REFLECTION & DISCUSSION SPONSORED BY THE HOLY CROSS VOCATIONS OFFICE. 
MARCH'S LBADER: SR JANE PITZ, C. S.J. TOPIC: "THE ON/NO OF SELF TO OTHERS" 
Date: Wednesday, February 23, 1988 8:00-9:30 p.m. at the Old College 
For Further Information: Fr. Michael D. Couhig, C.S.C. Fr. Paul F. Doyle, O.S.C. 
Vocation Directors P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame, ln. 46556 Phone: {219)-239-6385 

Wednesday, March 23, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Crisis ends, U.S. holds maneuvers 
Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras 
-U.S. troops sent here for emergency training exercises will stay on to complete the maneuvers, a U.S. military spokesman said Tuesday, al­though Honduras says its bor­der crisis with Nicaragua is over. 
"Right now the plans are to make it a 10-to-14-day exercise. We have not received any directive as to when to begin redeployment," said U.S. spokesman Maj. Gary Hovat­ter in a telephone interview. 
He said exercises were taking place Tuesday at four sites. 
President Reagan ordered 3,200 American troops to Hon­duras last week at the request of President Jose Azcona Hoyo, who had accused Sandinista soldiers from neighboring Nicaragua of penetrating Hon­duran territory in pursuit of U.S.-supported Contra rebels. 
President Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua denied his troops were in Honduras. Last week Honduran jets twice bombed Nicaraguan positions to force them to leave. No casualties were reported. 

Honduran Foreign Minister Carlos Lopez Contreras said in an interview Tuesday that the border tension "has virtually disappeared" after both the Sandinistas and the Contras suspended hostilities and began truce talks. 
The three days of negotia­tions began Monday in the small southern Nicaraguan town of Sapoa, near the Costa Rican border. The talks aim mainly at reaching a cease-fire so that both sides can strike a permanent peace accord in their 7-year-old war. 
The dispatch of the U.S. troops bolstered the American military presence in Honduras to about 6,000 servicemen. The Reagan administration billed it as both a show of support for Azcona and a warning to the Sandinistas against further ac­tions in the border region. 

The Observer I Brian Mast
Low key 
Glee Club members resume practice after their trip ber James Robertson awaits his cue at a rehearsal. to the East Coast over Spring Break. Freshman mem-
HPC reviews first constitutional outline of its powers and duties 
By JIM LANG News Staff  be held from April 11 to 14 in the Stepan Center.  tions were being accepted for the council's Rector of the Year  
Copies of the new constitu­tion of the undergraduate stu­dent body proposed by the Stu­dent Senate were distributed for review at Tuesday night's Hall Presidents' Council  McCarthy said invitations had been extended to all presidential candidates, and that the possibility of personal appearances from democratic candidates Mike Dukakis and Jesse Jackson was "very  Award. Rectors are nominated by their hall president, and a six-person committee from the council then chooses from the nominees. Daley said the committee will be looking for "activities  
meeting. HPC Co-Chairman Tim Sal­ good." Pangborn  President  Liam  in the hall, University and com­munity, plus whatever excep­ 
mon said there were no stantial revisions from  sub­last  Canny announced that the Pangborn Cup scramble golf  tional traits the rector might have."  
year's constitution, except the powers and duties of the HPC are included for the first time  tournament will be held Satur­day, March 26, starting at 8 a.m.  Alumni Hall President Mike Napier spoke to the council con­cerning Domestock '88, an  
this year. Overall, though, Salmon said the constitution basically con­sisted of "cosmetic changes ap­proved by the senate, and no revisions affect the Hall Presi­dents' Council. I see no prob­lems with it passing." In other business, Brian McCarthy, press secretary for the Mock Convention, told the council that the convention will  All dorms will be permitted to enter one four-person team to compete for the Pangborn Cup. The first-place trophy will be housed in the winning dorm each year. Other prizes include car­digan sweaters bearing the tournament logo and gift cer­tificates to local restaurants. HPC Co-Chairman Bob Daley announced that nomina­ event sponsored by Alumni Hall, in conjunction with An Tostal. Five bands will be se­lected by a panel of judges to play at the event, held from 5 to 9 p.m. on Friday, April 22. Bands interested in par­ticipating are encouraged to contact Steve Burke or Paul Czarnecki as soon as possible. "The Best Man," a play spon­sored by Cavanaugh Hall to  


THE CONTEMPORARY CHURCH: latin America and The United States 
~ ;. . 



"' \ I 
...."0~ \ \
g,~ . 
~ Luciano Mendes de Almeida 
~ President, Brazilian Conference Iof Catholic Bishops 
I I 

CAMP WINADO for Boys 5 Glen Lane. Mamaroneck. NY 10543 

914 381-5983 

Now staffing for the 1988 summer season. Positions are available for summer 
counselors who love children and have strong skills and ability to teach 1 or 
more of the following activities: Archery Lacrosse Swimming Arts & Crafts Photography Tennis Baseball Plano Track Basketball Pioneering Volleyball 

Bicycling Rocketry Water skiing Computer Science Ropes course Weight training 
Dramatics Sailing Wind surfing Aeld Soccer Wood working General Counselors Support staff Yearbook 
Guitar Hockey 

High Salary, Room, Board, Laundry, and Travel Allowances Full 8 week season. Drop by for an interview tomorrow at Room 108 LaFortune between 9 a.m. & 5p.m. 
benefit the Andy Sowder Schol­arship Fund, will run Thursday, Friday and Satur­day at 7:30 p.m. in the Res­burgh Library auditorium, ac­cording to Cavanaugh President Chris Lee. 
Admission to the play is free, but donations to the fund will be accepted after the perfor­mance, Lee said. 
Padre 
continued from page 1 
when he arrived on campus 
Sunday night. He also said that 
a mass would be held in the hall 
for McNeil. 
Mrs. McNeil said her family 
was hoping to bring Tom home 
today. "A few weeks' rest, and 
he should be OK," she said. 
McNeil was the first college student of the year involved in a major accident on South Padre Island, Stetar said. He also said that, while several students have usually been seriously injured in break­related accidents by late March, "this year has been a pretty low year for accidents" of that nature. 

----· -~~-------· ~ 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, March 23, 1988 
Girl taken for a wild flight after plane snags her kite 
Associated Press 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. ­Little DeAndra Anrig was flying her kite when it suddenly started to fly her, her parents say. It was just a short hop, but one the 8-year-old isn't likely to forget. 
A twin-engine plane caught the 200-pound nylon test line of DeAndra's kite and carried her about 100 feet -over her dad­dy's head and almost into a tree, she said Tuesday. 
She let go, but said she Wa6 still sore after two days' rest. The plane, meanwhile, is grounded because of damage apparently caused by getting tangled in the kite string. 
DeAndra and her parents, who live in the East Bay com­munity of Dublin, were picnick­ing with friends at the Shoreline Park about 30 miles south of San Francisco and about two miles from the Palo Alto Airport Sunday and taking turns flying a glider-type kite with a 12-foot wingspan. 
While it was DeAndra's turn, a plane descending for the air­port snagged the line, her par­ents said. 
"She said it was just a big jerk that lifted her into the air," said DeAndra's mother, Debby. "It carried her right over my husband's head. All he saw was a shadow going over his head. I'm just thankful she let go." 
"We always said, 'Hold on tight. Don't let go, honey,"' the 
********** 
mother said, recalling their ad­
vice on proper kite-flying tech­
nique. 
DeAndra said she was doing 
just that, until she saw what 
was looming in front of her. "I 
thought that I was gonna hit a 
tree," she said. 
Asked what she thought about during her brief flight, DeAndra said, "I wasn't think­ing anything but how scared I was." 
Mountain View Fire Marshal Frank Moe said the child was dragged for about 100 feet before letting go. Moe did not see the incident, but quoted from a report filed by inves­tigating officers. 
The girl spent a couple of days at home following Sunday afternoon's mishap, resting on an air mattress and sur­rounded by soothing ice packs and two of her favorite stuffed animals. Neighbors delivered cupcakes to cheer her up. 
Lenore Deaville, a pilot, was at the airport watching a friend make her first solo flight. She said the pilot of the twin-engine Rockwell Turbo Commander, Jake Uranga of Reno, told her that "he was at 800 feet doing about 140 knots (160 mph) when this thing came at him." 


The walk of life 

Sophomore Brian O'Fallon strolls past construction on an addition to Nieuwland Science Hall. The addi­


**ALL NOTRE DAME CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS** 
Registration materials are now available for you to: 
1. 
REGISTER for the 1988-89 ACADEMIC YEAR-­Registration is MANDATORY to be an officially recognized organization on campus. 

2. 
APPLY FOR FUNDING. 


3. 
APPLY FOR FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND. 

4. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT table registration. 


DEADLINE FOR REGISTERING YOUR ORGANIZATION IS: FRIDAY, APRIL 8 BY 4:00P.M. pick up packets in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune Student Center 
J. Philip Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics 
'Being a Christian Physician Today' Edmund D. Pellegrino, M.D. 
Director, Kennedy Institute of Ethics Georgetown University 
Auditorium Continuing Education Center Friday, March 25 
4:15 p.m. 
Dr. Pellegrino is currently Director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics at Georgetown University. He was formerly President of the Catholic University of America and President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Yale-New Haven Medical Center. He is one of the most influential contributors to recent discussions of medical ethics. Among his many writings are Humanism and the Physician (University of Tennessee Press, 1979), A Philosophical Basis of Medical Practice (Oxford University Press, 1981 ), and For the Patient's Good (Oxford University Press, 1988). 


~~-------­
--------------~------­

Wednesday, March 23, 1988 
Noriega offers to talk, people continue strike 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama 

Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega's opponents scorned what they called a cynical offer to negotiate his resignation and kept Panama shut down Tues­day with a general strike in­tended to force him out. 
An estimated 90 percent of of­fices and industries were shut by the strike, which appeared to be gaining support on its second day. Most shops and stores were closed, public transportation was halted and many government employees did not go to work. 
Panama is out of cash be­cause of pressure from the United States to force the ouster of Noriega, who is the real power in Panama as com­mander of its 15,000 soldiers and police. The U.S. dollar is the national currency, and the supply has been cut off. 
Most government workers were paid only $75 of their mid-

PY BELATED BIRTHDA KATHLEEN McTIGUE!! OUR RENAISSANCE WOMAN IS 21!! 
LOVE, ALLISON, DEBBIE, DEEANN, AND RATTIYA 
Sophomores, 
Juniors, & Seniors 
In Engineering, Physics, Chemistry and Math. 
Earn Over $1200A Month While Still In School! 
It's part of the Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Pro­gram. And the money you can earnwhilestillln school is just the beginning! 
After graduation, you will receive graduate level training valued at $30,000 and begin work as a technical manager with im­mediate authority and responsibility. This Is the only program of its kind in the world. 
To qualify you must be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-six, be In good health and meet stringent academic requirements. 
A Navy Engineering Programs Specialist 
will be on campus March 2s, 1988 
Make an appointrrent aL the Career & Placement Svc. 
For more information call toll-free 

1-800 527-8836 ....._____Lead the Adventure_____, 
month wages last week, and the $33 million end of the month payroll for the 130,000 public employees probably won't be met. Pension checks due Wed­nesday have been delayed, at least until March 28. 
Hunger is spreading among workers as well as the poor, un­employed and elderly. Many washerwomen, cleaning wo­men, maids and cooks have lost their jobs because there is no money with which to pay them. 
Manuel Solis Palma, the ci­vilian Noriega chose to run the government, said on television Monday night the general would resign in exchange for "a national dialogue" to recon­cile differences with opponents of the regime. He prefaced the offer with a diatribe against the United States. 
The implication was that Noriega, under federal court indictment in Florida on nar­cotics and money laundering charges, would stay in Panama and might retain power behind the scenes. 

The Observer page 5 

The Observer 1 Brian Mast
Stick 'em up 

Junior Dan lzzo cradles his catch during a game of the varsity lacrosse team will host its first home game 
lacrosse on North Quad. In the inner-collegiate level, on Saturday. 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 

• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2 V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST LITTLE IN MICHIANA" 

free 


Shamir opposes 
U.S. plan of peace 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Thousands of Israelis mobbed Prime Min­ister Yitzhak Shamir Tuesday as he returned from a U.S. visit and cheered him for his firm opposition to an American peace plan. 
The army said troops shot and killed a Palestinian man in a clash Monday night, bringing the Arab death toll to 107 in 15 weeks of protests in the occu­pied territories, according to 
U.N. figures. The Israeli army has suffered one fatality. 
At least three more protesters were wounded in clashes, and a Palestinian who allegedly collaborated with Is­raeli authorities was shot and killed by fellow Arabs, Pales­tinian reports said. 
Returning from a week-long visit that included talks with President Reagan and Secre­tary of State George P. Shultz, Shamir said U.S. officials had set no deadlines for Israel to accept the plan. 
"No .one demanded anything from us," he told reporters at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport. "It all depends on us." 
Shamir also hinted Shultz was considering a return to the Middle East in another attempt to defuse Israeli-Palestinian tensions. 
Asher Nairn, the information minister at the Israeli Em­bassy in WC~shington, said Shultz will travel to the Middle East in two weeks to continue negotiating for acceptance of his regional peace plan. State Department spokesman Charles Redman said Tuesday that Shultz had not yet decided to return. 


--------------------.. 
page& The Observer Wednesday, March 23, 1988 
~---··--~---------------~ 


AP Photo Anti-apartheid activist Archbishop Desmond Tutu, right. Story on student's visit on page 1 and below. 
Despite the setback, Schadek still wants to go to South Africa "now more than ever." Be­cause of the delay, he may have to change the dates on his visa. "Now I'm making contingent plans to go in May," he said. 
"I don't think there's too much anyone can do . . . basi­cally it's waiting for Pretoria," ~aid Schadek. 
WE"D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
·n,e wcxds we he ~· 

left, chats with fellow Anglican Bishop Keith Sutton, 
Tutu 
continued from page 1 
South Africa's capital, Pretoria, for approval. "Every time I talk to (the consulate), they haven't heard from Pretoria." 
Schadek' s mother called the South African embassy in Washington, D.C., and the of­fices of Ohio Sen. Howard Met­zenbaum and Rep. Mike Oxley in an attempt to assist her son in his efforts. She was told ob­taining a visa would be difficult because of the current tensions and relationship between the American and South African governments. 
An assistant of Tutu was Schadek's contact in South 
Class 
continued from page 1 
Each student earned A's in all courses but one, said Jones. Both Chapski and Mar­xuach received an A-in the same course, she said. However, Marxuach took seven more credit hours than Chapski and thus has the higher GPA, said Jones. 
The last time Notre Dame graduated co-valedictorians, both were permitted to deliver· abbreviated speeches, said Jones. The situation turned out to be a "disaster," she said. 
This year, due to his higher GPA, Marxuach will deliver the valedictory speech at the commencement ceremony, said Jones. 
Marxuach was satisfied with the decision and said, "It would have been unfair" to name only one valedictorian in this situa­tion. 
Chapski said "It is a great honor," to be named valedic­torian and was "not at all up­set," about not delivering the valedictory. 
Both Marxuach and Chapski felt the sacrifices over four years were worth the honor of being named valedictorian. 
Marxuach said, "It required some hard work," but was "mostly a matter of keeping things in perspective." "I had to give up lot," said Chapski, but "I worked hard, and I played hard and I have no regrets." 
Africa. "This doesn't surprise me in this current totalitarian state," he told Schadek. 
One Notre Dame student who traveled to South Africa as a high school student agreed the purpose of the visit is impor­tant to the government. 
"When I went over the first time, my visa was a study visa," the student said. "I studied the whole year. That's how come I could have the visa," she said. 
"The second time I went on a visitor visa, and I gave the name of my friend and the ad­dress, they gave me the visa right away," she said. "I assumed that they checked out my friend and saw that she was not politically active or they just assumed so." 

r ................. 
THIS COL,JPON GOOD FOR A • 



uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Spring gra1uates apply now for positions available 
in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attractive benefit 
package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo 
Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose 
growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital. Personnel Services, 
Nursing Recruitment Section, 201 West Center Street, 
Rochester, MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
Rochester Methodist Hos_R_it_al_ 
A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITAL 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

Security Beat 
MARCH 11 
I a.m. A Farley Hall resident reported the theft of a pair of earrings from her room sometime between 3/10 and 3/11. Her loss is estimated at $600. 
12:30 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of cash from the employee locker room in The Huddle. His loss is $36. 
12:50 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported the theft of her purse and contents from her unlocked room at about 12:15 p.m. on 3/11. Her loss is estimated at $185. 
MARCH 12 
5:32 p.m. Notre Dame Security issued a citation to a South Bend resident for traveling 47 m.p.h. in a posted 30 m.p.h. zone on BullaRd. 
8:35 p.m. A Mishawaka resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 56 m.p.h. in a posted 35 m.p.h. zone on Douglas Rd. 
9:10p.m. An Elkhart, IN. resident reported that his car was vandalized while parked in the Red Field East Lot. Damage is estimated at $10. 
9:20 p.m. An Elkhart, IN resident reported that his car was vandalized while parked in the Cl lot sometime during the day. Damage is estimated at $300. 
MARCH 13 
4:35 a.m. While on patrol, a Notre Dame Security officer reported that three student cars were vandalized while parked in the D1 lot. Damage estimates are unknown. 
8:35 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a minor traffic accident at the intersection of Dorr Rd. and Juniper Rd. No one was injured and damage was minimal. 
MARCH 16 
3:05 p.m. A University employee reported that a vending machine in a maintenance building was vandalized sometime after 5 p.m. on 3/15. 
7: 15 p.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation for traveling 60 m.p.h. in a posted 30 m.p.h. zone on Edison Rd. 
MARCH 17 
8 p.m. Two Indiana residents were involved in an argument and minor physical altercation while waiting in the ice cream line of the JACC Concourse. 
10:45 p.m. Security assisted the Notre Dame Fire Department in responding to a false alarm at the Snite Museum. 
MARCH 18 
6:48 p.m. A Granger, Indiana resident was issued a citation for traveling 44 m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone. 
MARCH 20 
II :55 a.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported 3 that someone had hit his car while it was parked in the A15 (Infirmary) lot sometime between II a.m. and 12 noon. Damage is estimated at $1300. 
MARCH 21 
8:44 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of a steel grate from the side of the LaFortune Student Center sometime between 3/18 and 8:10a.m. on 3/21. 
12:30 p.m. A resident of Breen-Phillips Hall reported the theft of a suitcase, overnight case and a garment bag from an unlocked storage room sometime during break. 
4:39 p.m. Two R.O.T.C. officers reported the theft of $18 cash from their wallets in the Air Force locker room. This occurred sometime between 12 and I p.m. 
4 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported the theft of five basketballs from the JACC sometime between II :45 p.m. on 3/19 and 4 
p.m. on 3/21. Loss is valued at $350. 
MARCH 22 
2:30p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the loss of his N.D. identification card between the Huddle and his dorm sometime during the evening of 3/21. 
3:32 p.m. A South Bend resident reported the theft of his license and $8 cash from a locker in the Rockne Memorial Building. 
COME TO 
NEW HAMPSHIRE FOR THE SUMMER 
Camp Counselor Positions Available at Outstanding Sports Camps Camp Winaukee for Boys and Robindel for Girls 
One mile apart on 22 mile lake, near "On Golden Pond" site and the Maine coast. Good salaries and all transportation paid. Seek qualified specialists in all areas. 
Personal interviews available at LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
11 AM TO 4 PM-THURSDAY, MARCH 24 CALL COLLECT (215) 663-0366 

stick around after the movie for some tunes, open until 1 :00. 
FRIDAY Open 9:30-2:00 Dance,Dance,Dance with campus DJ's Dave Bruneel and Bryan Rao 
Check out the specials ato our beverage barf 
SATORDA Y Open 9:30-2:00 Catch the newest tunes as Anne Seifert and Kris Murphy play the tunes to keep you dancing all night! 
SONDA Y served from 12:00-6:00 ALL YOU CAN EAT SOBS 
$2.00 
----------------------------------------------------~---------~ 


Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 23, 1988 
gage 7 

P.O. Box Q 
Catholic Alumni Club reception 
Dear Editor: 
Have you noticed the yellow bunnies popping up on bulletin boards on campus? 
The bunnies are an invitation to single faculty, staff, graduate students and seniors to become acquainted with the Catholic Alumni Club. CAC is, I believe, the largest national organiza­tion for single Catholics. CAC is a mem­bership club without a political agenda. It provides social, athletic, cultural, re­ligious, travel and community service opportunities for members. 
A reception at the University Club is planned for Thursday, March 24. If you are interested in CAC but cannot attend the reception, please drop a note to CAC, P .0. Box 38, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Jean Hanrahan President, Catholic Alumni Club of South Bend March 21, 1988 
Group demands troop recall 
Dear Editor: 
Pax Christi-Notre Dame deplores the Reagan administration's unilateral decision to deploy United States mili­tary personnel into Honduras. We sin­cerely doubt that peaceful solutions to the Nicaraguan civil war are being ade­quately pursued by the United States. 
We are not so naive as to believe that the issues involved are simple. Though Pax Christi strongly objects to Nicaraguan troops crossing the Hon­duran border in pursuit of Contra forces, we do not consider this tempo­rary intrusion into Honduras a jus­tification for escalating United States involvement in the Nicaraguan civil war. The deployment of U.S. troops is an act which will inevitably cause the Nicaraguan people increased suffer­ing. The Reagan administration refers to its action as one that sends a message to the Sandinista government. We agree, there is a message being sent. The message is that the United States is willing to support (as it has) as well as directly engage in war before peace­ful solutions have been exhausted. To this, we strongly object. 
What we do believe is that a perspec­tive needs to be taken which leads in a new direction. This new perspective is one that attempts to see the circum­stances from the point of view of the Nicaraguan people. This new direction calls for empathy and increased under­standing. It sees that communism is not our natural enemy, but that the enemy is totalitarian regimes of the left and right who trample human dignity and cause great suffering. 
Pax Christi believes in human prog­ress that is linked to global cooperation and the faithful pursuit of peaceful so­lutions to conflicts. "The whole human race faces a moment of supreme crisis in its advance towards maturity," says the Second Vatican Council on its treat­ment of warfare. We believe maturity calls for the president to reverse his order by recalling military personnel and aid to the Contras. Pax Christi also believes that it is this maturity which urges its members, as well as all the members of the Notre Dame commu­nity, to write their representatives in Congress to protest this rash policy. 
Bob Dowd Moreau Seminary Pax Christi-Notre Dame 
March 22, 1988 
ND community includes SMC 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to John Coughlin's letter in the March 10 issue. I would like to address his statement, "groups not associated with the Uni­versity, namely Saint Mary's College students .... " He is sadly mistaken if he thinks Saint Mary's College is not as­sociated with the University of Notre Dame. 
Students are eligible to enroll in classes on both campuses. A large num­ber of joint (Saint Mary's and Notre Dame) academic, social, spiritual and athletic clubs share funds and facilities. Where would the Keenan Revue, Graham Chapman, and several AnTos­tal events be without the support of the Saint Mary's community (not to men­tion our facilities)? 
We as Saint Mary's students do not consider ourselves to be Notre Dame students. We look upon it as a privilege to be able to purchase student football and basketball tickets as well as to receive student tickets to the presi­

dent'~ ::~drlrP.s~ ::~t the Knute Rockne 
Stamp Dedication. While Saint Mary's 
College or the University of Notre 
Dame is each strong enough to stand 
on its own, for several decades students 
from both campuses have chosen to 
participate in and support the Saint 
Mary's-Notre Dame community as a 
whole. This joint community has a 
great deal to offer to all. 
I have been involved in student gov­ernment for four years, giving me the opportunity to extend as well as receive support from the University of Notre Dame. The efforts of working together have resulted in many educating and enjoyable experiences. I hope within the next three years Mr. Coughlin will have the same opportunity to reap the benefits of both campuses. 
My advice to Mr. Coughlin is to open his eyes and take a look at the state­ment that appears underneath The Ob­server title on the front page of the paper every day. It states, "The inde­pendent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." Can he now tell me Saint Mary's students are not associated with the University of Notre Dame? 
Eileen Hetterich Student Body President, Saint Mary's College LeMans Hall March 21, 1988 
Rockne more than an ND hero 
Dear Editor: 

In response to the past letters of Kathryn Pirrotta and John Coughlin, I feel that these letters were very selfish. Both letters were in response to being turned away from the Knute Rockne ceremony. I am sorry that both of them were unable to attend, but Miss Pir­rotta and Mr. Coughlin seem to have missed the whole point of why Knute Rockne was chosen to be on a com­memorative stamp. 
Knute Rockne was chosen to be on a United States commemorative stamp because he was an American hero, not just a hero of Notre Dame. The name of Knute Rockne is known beyond the limits of the University of Notre Dame. In order to have the honor of being placed on such a stamp, one must affect the entire country. The University of Notre Dame is just a small part of this no!,!ntry. Miss Pirrotta and Mr. Cough­
lin seem to have thought that Knute 
Rockne was being honored simply be­
cause he was from the University of 
Notre Dame. 
Since Knute Rockne was admired and 
loved by many Americans, his stamp 
dedication ceremony was opened to his 
closest fans, the people of Notre Dame, 
Saint Mary's and South Bend. Knute 
Rockne's daughter graduated from 
Saint Mary's College in 1941. While 
coaching at Notre Dame, Rockne's 
family lived in the South Bend commu­
nity. It was unfortunate that more 
Americans could not attend. Knute 
Rockne is part of America's history, 
not just Notre Dame's, and he should 
be accordingly shared. 
The University of Notre Dame should 
be honored to be associated with such 
a hero but should also remember that 
he belongs to all America. Knute 
Rockne is not just the legend of Notre 
Dame, but he is also the legend of the 
American Dream. Thus, limiting the 
crowd to only those people at Notre 
Dame would have been limiting the 
American Dream. 
Julie Wagner Holy Cross Hall March 19, 1988 

Donators thanked for generosity 
Dear Editor: 
One month ago you were kind enough to publish my request for assistance to the parents of Richie Teders, the 13­year-old boy who died of AIDS on Jan. 
8. The response from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community has been overwhelming. 
I had originally hoped to raise a few hundred dollars for the Teders family, and the fund to date has $1,800 in it. The Saint Mary's students have been particulary generous in their response to this cause. Student government, in­dividual classes and dorms all donated generously after actively soliciting con­tributions, and The Special Collection Fund of Campus Ministry also responded to my request with a sizeable check. 
For my caring, for your giving, for your incredible generosity, let me simply say "thank you." 
Nicholas J. Meyerhofer Associate Professor Modern Languages Saint Mary's College 

Doonesbury 
OH, THCR£ /AlAS TH/3 0{){) 015­TRACTION, SUCH AS TH£ TIM& TH/3 /Jti..&[.TABl£ LAf7'15UNPI& 
RIJ[)t EJY 70 ASK f?IREC770N5. 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
~v 
BUT &VCN ON OCCASIONS SIJQI AS TH£5&I 14/HliN P/At.KS fA/&1?!3SHAW, 6lANa.5 txOIANGW, 
ANP PROMIS/351AJHISPI3RW... 
MY SIAIC&T MAN-01/WI I SHAU. NeVeR 
FORG£3T YOU' 
"' 

Garry Trudeau 
•.. H£ tvA£ AltVAY£ BACK IN TIM& FOR OINN£R. 
I HAOTHe STRANGEST PAY. 
I 
Editorial Board 
Quote of the Day 
"If you want to make the world a better place, take a look at yourself, then make a change." 
Michael Jackson "Man in the Mirror" 
Operations Board 
Editor·in·Chief .. ............... Chris Murphy Busmess Manager.. John Oxnder Managing Editor . . . . . . . . ............ Chris Donnelly Advert1smg Des1gn Manager.. .Molly K1llen News Editor.. . ................. Regis Coccia Advertismg Manager ... L1nda Goldschmidt News Editor ..... . . Mark McLaughlin Production Manager Bernadene Sh1lts Viewpoint Editor ..... ..... Man Slaughter Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor .... ... Marty Strasen Controller... Todd Hard1man
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa~nt Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor ... Beth Healy Graph1c Arts Manager Marga Bruns
the adminiStration of e1ther 1nsutut1on. The News IS repor1Qd as accurately and ob1ectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor . Sandy Cerimele
possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opin1on of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Editor ... Michael Moran
Commentaries, leners and lhe lns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
1s available to all members of the school community. and the free expression of varying opimons 
on campus, through leners. IS encouraged. Founded November 3,1966 
~------­



Accent 
page 8 Wednesday, March 23, 1988 
Museum brings Studebakers to life 
SARAH VOIGT accent writer 

W 
hat images does the Studebaker name evoke? Most people associate the Studebaker name with anti­quated, grand cars seen in old movies. Some may know that the Studebaker Automobile Company was headquartered here in South Bend from the early 1920s until 1963. 
What most people do not know is that the Studebaker Company became involved with such varied ventures as the popular television show "Mr. Ed", a car named 'after Knute Rockne, and United States army trucks manufactured for both World Wars. The Studebaker National Museum, located in two sites in down­town South Bend, attempts to highlight the diversified inter­ests of the Studebaker family as well as to trace the evolu­tion of the automobile industry. 
The portion of the Studebaker National Museum located in the Century Center on St. Joseph Street displays the company's products in a historical frame of reference. This "interpretive museum" uses life-size murals, original advertisements for some of the first cars ever built, an 1874 map of downtown South Bend and assorted nostalgia in order to place the cars in the proper 
Shoulder fashion 
re those yours?"

''A 
That's a comment often heard from men as they glance at a woman's shoulders, squeeze them, and ask again. Rarely are they really hers. More often than not, shoulder p~ds are her secret. 
Mary Berger 
Back in the Highlife 

Shoulder pads are found in all types of women's clothes: blouses and blazers, sweaters and sweatshirts. They are one of those hip-fashion-hot-in-the­80s kinds of things. Sitting in a fern bar, sipping a Corona and sporting broad shoulders, you are definitely in. 
Why the fascination with exaggerated shoulder lines? Some may say it's male envy. By adding some padding, we can cheaply and easily alter part of our appearances to look like men, to get a little closer to understanding that mascu­line mystique. 
Fashion gurus, however, note the attractive lines which shoulder pads create. Slaves to fashion that we all are, we blindly follow their advice and agree that the inverted triangle­bold shoulders and trim waist­is the only answer. 
OK. so. shoulder pads are hip movie "The Studebaker Story'' as well as episodes of the Studebaker sponsored televi­sion show "Mr. Ed." 
Thomas E. Brubaker, the director of the museum, ex­plains how even Knute Rockne helped endorse a model bearing his name in the I 930s. "In the archives we recently found a 12-inch record of Rockne's sales pitch for the model. We also uncovered some photos of Rockne's players pushing the car for an advertisement." 
The impact of the museum's historical treasures extend beyond Rockne's humorous endeavors outside of the foot­ball stadium. Brubaker ex­plains, "These documents form a microcosm of the industrial age. They provide detailed cor­porate records and legal papers that trace the progres­sion of a famous American 
having felt something hit m the back when I was walking, and I had this black shoulder pad hanging from my navy 
blue scarf. Faux Pas Number One. 
The second encounter also occurred at the dining hall. Sit­ting at lunch with a group of people, we were all casually reading the paper and listening to the jackhammers when one girl started feeling her lower arm and had a funny look on her face. Abracadabra and voila! Out of her sleeve she pulled a shoulder pad which had magically disengaged it­selfl Faux Pas Num~er Two. 
Faux Pas Number Three hap~ pened at a dance earlier this semester. There was a girl dressed in a dark skirt and a big white blouse. Thoroughly enjoying herself, it seemed, she was ubiquitous on the dance floor. She danced to every song in a long set and left no holds barred. While I 

company." 
Interesting questions arise after visiting the Studebaker National Museum. For example, why did the Studebakers choose South Bend as the site of a large automobile plant? Brubaker believes that the area's abundant water and lum­ber supplies, as well as its geo­graphic position as a gateway to the west, made South Bend an attractive place for headquarters. 
Why did the company declare bankruptcy in 1963? "Ironical­ly, the company had just intro­duced the Avanti and two other of its most successful models when it was shut down," Brubaker says. Unlike today, it was not the foreign competi­tion in the I 950s that ruined the company but the larger American car manufacturers. Brubak~r states, "The Studebaker Company could just not compete with the 'big three' of the American auto industry: Chrysler, Ford and General Motors." 
The Studebaker National Museum's interpretive approach and historical perspective aim to bring the automobile indus­try to life. This museum is open from 10-4:30 on Tues­days through Fridays, from 10­4 on Saturdays and from I 2-4 on Sundays. 
was dancing, I happened to glance down at the floor and saw a lone white shoulder pad left there, like a living memorial to the girl's free spirit. 
I don't think the shoulder pad was ever claimed. I think it was just danced upon and tossed aside. The girl may not have realized until the end of the evening that she was mis­sing something. But, like I mentioned above, if her other blouses or sweaters had had some encounters with washing machines or defective velcro, she probably wasn't too worried. 
It's kind of like all those mis­matched socks that get paired up when the machines or St. Michael's need a fix. You can usually find a pretty close match, and if it's not that close, like diffferent colored stripes on tube socks, who ever really notices? 




historical perspective. 
The Studebaker Company can trace the origins of its thriving automobile industry to 1830 when John Studebaker designed the first Studebaker model--a handmade wagon. Later, at the turn of the cen­tury, the Studebakers experi­mented with electric cars. Im­agine having to stop every 50 miles to recharge your car's batteries and to only be able to travel at a mere 15 miles per hour! 
The display at Century Center includes the original Flanders model, the first car manufac­tured in South Bend in 1920, and continues through the Daytona, the last car produced before the company declared bankruptcy in 1963. 
This learning resource, however, does not focus solely on the products of its namesake company. Since a 
•
pads: IS 'hip' really worth I•t?. 
fashion statements just like any other accessory. However, shoulder pads can also be fas­hion dilemmas. 
How do they work? Most use the velcro method. This enables the pads to be removed for cleaning pur­poses, and also enables the 
pads to be mixed and matched. (More details and why there might be a need for mis­matched pads later.) 
First let me air a grievance I have with all of those designers who refuse to go with the velcro and instead choose to tack in the pads with a few stitches on each end. This just does not work very well. 
Sometimes one half of the pad will come loose so that it is literally hanging by a thread. So then you've got this shoulder pad that never really stays on your shoulder. If it is still tacked near your neck, then the pad flops down either on your chest or on your back. Lumps aren't attractive. If the pad is still tacked near your arm, then it flops down into your sleeve and you look pretty lopsided. This is fashion? 

main goal of the museum is to portray the industrial heritage of northern Indiana, the collec­tion represents all of the major industries and companies that operated in South Bend in the early 1900s. Consequently, Singer sewing machines, Bendro washers, and Oliver plows are exhibited among the car models. 
The other half of the Studebaker National Museum is the Archives Center on South Lafayette Boulevard. This facility displays 60 to 80 Studebaker vehicles, including old wagons, buggies, the car­riages of four United States presidents and many army trucks. 
This building also houses the company archives which in­clude many personal family documents, advertising litera­ture, posters and films. These films include the Hollywood 
Cleaning shirts with thread­enforced pads is another prob­lem. A shoulder pad doesn't usually take very kindly to a washing machine, to any water for that matter. Soaked through, the pads refuse to maintain their shape. They get all twisted around themselves and turn into little balls. (Then they are only good for throwing at your roommate.) Likewise, it seems that thread is not suffici­ent when you finish a load of wash and find three swingin' single shoulder adornments in the bottom of the washer. 
These miniscule maintenance problems could be lived with if one truly enjoys wearing shoulder pads and being "in." But, most of the hassles of shoulder pads pop up while wearing them. I have three strange but true stories to share with you, all of which I personally witnessed. 
The first happened to me last fall. I have this black, long­sleeved T-shirt style shirt that has shoulder pads. I always detached the pads when was­hing the shirt and put them in my drawer until I wore the shirt again. One day, I could not find both pads. Two days later, I found the other while stand­ing at the salad bar. 
You see, I also keep my scarves in that drawer and the pad had velcroed itself to one of my wool scarves. So, there I stood over the peanut butter, 



Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, March 23, 1988 page 9 
·Sports Lists 
TOP 100-POINT GAMES IN NCAA TOURNAMENT HISTORY 
Total Team, Opponent. Date 
123 N. Carolina vs. Loyola (Ca), 1988 121 Iowa vs. Notre Dame, 1970 121 UNLV vs. San Fransisco, 1971 119 Loyola (Ca) vs. Wyoming, 1988 119 Houston vs. Notre Oame1 1971 118 Princeton vs. Wichita State, 1965 118 Notre Dame vs. Vanderbilt, 1974 
SOURCE: Chica o Tribune 
MARGA BRUNS and GEOFFREY SAUERfThe Observer 

NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Adamo Division Smythe Dvlslon 

w L T GF GA Pta. w L T GF GA Pis Montreal 42 20 12 274 219 96 Calgary 44 21 9 363 285 97 Boston 40 28 6 281 237 86 Edmonton 40 23 10 330 259 90 BuHalo 34 30 9 261 280 77 Winnipeg 31 33 10 272 284 72 Quebec 32 37 4 256 273 68 los Angeles 27 41 7 287 333 61 
Hartford 30 36 7 222 250 67 Vancouver 
Patrick Dlvlolon Washington 37 29 7 259 216 81 Detroit NY Islanders 35 29 10 281 247 80 St. Louis Philadelphia 36 30 7 267 269 79 Chicago NY Rangers 33 32 8 273 259 74 Toronto Pittsburgh 31 33 9 288 291 71 Minnesota New Jersey 32 36 5 258 283 69 
Wednesday'• Gomeo Quebec at Montreal Washington at Pittsburgh Minnesota at Chicago 

Irish Baseball 
Through Monday BATTER GP AB R H 2B 3B Greg Vogele, OF 8 3 1 2 0 0 Dan Peltier, OF 16 50 20 22 10 0 Tim Hutson, 1 B 16 49 14 21 2 1 Pat Pesavento, SS 16 59 19 21 1 1 
Craig Pavllna, C 4 3 0 1 1 0 0 2 0 0 .333 Chris Flynn, DH 13 34 6 11 6 0 1 9 2 12 .324 James Sass, OF 15 42 8 11 2 0 0 2 10 6 .262 Edward Lund, 1 B 16 27 8 7 1 0 0 4 13 1 .2f!9 Mike Moshier, 28 16 57 11 14 5 0 0 14 6 7 .246 Ray Szajko, IF-OF 16 37 6 11 2 0 0 2 3 7 .297 Pal O'Brien, C 10 25 2 5 0 0 0 4 1 7 .200 Jeff Knight, C 7 12 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 1 .167 Mike Coss, 38 12 26 7 4 0 0 0 2 5 6 .154 Steve Skupien, 38 12 31 7 4 1 0 0 2 4 6 .129 Mike Flynn, OF 33 112 10 32 5 0 5 26 5 42 .286 Ter!): And~siak. OF 14 37 7 4 0 0 0 2 7 13 .108 
Mike Harmon  7  0  16.1  28  4  
Zachary Nagle  1  0  1.2  3  1  
Brian Piotrowicz  5  0  12.2  22  9  
Derk Madden  2  0  3.0  6  5  
NOTRE DAME  16  2  117.0 143  49  
OPPONENTS  16  5  125.0 130  96  

Davtd Yawman, C 9 13 2 1 0 David Legus, 1 B 2 2 0 0 0 Mike Rotkis, DH 2 2 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 16 472 113 130 29 OPPONENTS 16 466 104 143 18 
Left on base: Notre Dame 114, Opponents 102 
I PITCHER GP CG IP H BB Anthony Livorsi 1 0 .1 0 0 Mike Coffey 3 0 4.0 1 3 Kevin Kearns 3 0 5.0 4 5 
Linzie ~er 2 0 5.0 8 1 
Saves: Notre Dame 1 (Pasilla), Opponents 0 
0 
0 0 2 2 
so 
0 2 5 3 
6 0 4 3 54 80 
22 44 9 255 305 53 Norris Division 
39  25  9  295  243  87  
32  34  8  260  264  72  
30  36  8  260  296  68  
20  44  10  255  314  50  
18  44  12  224  314  48  
HR  RBI  BB  so  BA  
0  2  0  0  .667  
3  19  17  4  .440  
6  27  15  12  .429  
0  5  12  2  .af!!l  


Sports Calendar · , Scoreboard 
Home games in CAPS 

Results for Mar. 9 through Mar. 22 
Today Basketball Men
Fencing at NCAA Championships 

Notre Dame 72, Dayton 59
Baseball at Bethel (2) 

Southern Methodist 85·73 Women Thursday Notre Dame 77, Dayton 64 Northern Illinois 95, Notre Dame 74
Fencing at NCAA Championships 
Wrestling
Friday 

38th place at the NCAA Tournament Fencing at NCAA Championships Women's Tennis vs. EASTERN MIC­
Baseball St. Mary's 3, Notre Dame 1
HIGAN 

St. Mary's 7, Notre Dame 6
Baseball vs. WISCONSIN (at 

Notre Dame 16, Cornell 2
Kovaleski) 

Incarnate Word 10, Notre Dame 2 Golf at Colonial Classic 
Notre Dame 7, Texas Lutheran 3 Notre Dame 8, Texas Lutheran 2 
St. Edward's 5, Notre Dame 4 Schreiner 4, Notre Dame 0
Saturday 
Lacrosse vs. WOOSTER 

Notre Dame 19, Schreiner 2
Track hosts NO INVITATIONAL Fencing at NCAA Championships 

Tennis Baseball at Butler (2) Men 
Golf at Colonial Classic Notre Dame 8, Army 1 Notre Dame 8, M.I.T. 1 Harvard 7, Notre Dame 2
Sunday 

Notre Dame 5, Boston College 4 Baseball vs. CHICAGO STATE (2) (at 
Penn State 5, Notre Dame 4 Kovaleski) Women Lacrosse vs. WINDY CITY Utah 7, Notre Dame 2 Golf at Colonial Classic 
Notre Dame 6, Princeton 3 Alabama 7, Notre Dame 2
Tuesday 

UNLV 6, Notre Dame 1 Colorado 5, Notre Dame 1 Lacrosse at Michiaan 
Notre Dame 8, Cal State-Northridge 1 Golf 
Notre Dame 307, Embry Riddle 312, Flagler
· NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference 
Atlantic Division 
w L Boston 46 20 New York 29 36 Philadelphia 29 36 Washington 28 37 New Jersey 17 46 
COntrol Dlvlalon Detroit 44 20 Atlanta 40 24 Chicago 37 28 Milwaukee 36 28 Indiana 32 33 Cleveland 30 36 
Western Conference 
Mldweot Dlvlalon 
w L Dallas 43 21 Houston 38 25 Denver 39 26 Utah 36 29 San Antonio 24 40 Sacramento 19 46 
Pocltlc Division LA lakers 51 14 Portland 42 22 Seattle 34 32 Phoenix 21 44 Golden State 16 48 LA Clippers 13 51 
Wednesday's Gomes Washington at Boston New Jersey at Cleveland Chicago at Philadelphia Denver at LA Clippers Sacramento at Golden State Portland at Se•ltle 

325 11th place at Palm Coast Intercollegiate 
~Irish Lacrosse
Pet. GB 
.697 .446 16.5 
through Sunday
.446 16.5 .431 17.5 

PLAYER, POS. Otr•. 
.262 26.5 

John Olmstead, A 15 Brian McHugh, A 16
.686 .625 4 

Jeff Shay, A 16 
Tom Lanahan, M 16
.569 7.5 
.563 6 

JQ!:m M~;;Nicholas, M 1§
.492 12.5 

Dave Kidder, M 16
.455 15 

Mike Quigley, M 16 Dave Carey, A 12 Doug Spencer, D 16
Pet. GB .672 

Art Brad~, M 16 
John Burtis, M 16
.603 4.5 
.600 4.5 

John Capano, M 13 
.554 7.5 

Pete GIUin, M 14
.375 19 .292 24.5 

Mark Healy, A 6 Rob L~nn A 3 
Dave Barnard, 0 16 Ed McAnaney, 0 12 Matt McQuillan, G 14 Jeff Glacier, G 2 NOTRE DAME 16 OPPONENTS 16 
'Exhibition Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

E811  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
New York  12  7  .632  
Chicago  13  6  .619  
Montreal  10  7  .586  1  
St. louis  6  9  .471  3  
Pittsburgh  9  12  .429  4  
Philadelphia  8  11  .421  4  
Weal  
Los Angeles  15  6  .714  
Cincinnati  10  8  .556  3.5  
Houston  10  10  .500  4.5  
San Francisco  9  9  .500  4.5  
San Diego  8  10  .444  5.5  
Atlanta  5  13  .276  8.5  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Eaot  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
New York  14  6  .700  
Toronto  12  6  .667  1  
Cleveland  6  10  .444  5  
Boston  6  11  .421  5.5  
Milwaukee  6  12  .400  ·ti  
Baltimore  6  12  .333  7  
Detroit  4  14  .222  9  
Weot  
Kansas City  14  6  .700  
California  10  7  .588  2.5  
Texas  10  9  .526  3,5  
Oakland  9  9  .500  4  
Seattle  9  9  .500  4  
Chicago  9  12  .429  5.5  
Minnesota  7  11  .389  6  
Tuesdey'o Reoullo  
NY Mets 4. Houston 2  
Los Angeles 3, Cincinnati 2  
Atlanta 6, Baltimore 5  
Boston 10, Detroit 4  
Kansas City 5, Pittsburgh 3 (10 innings)  
Toronto 5, Philadelphia 3  
Minnesota 6, Chi. White Sox 0  
Texas 3, St. louis 1  

SH G Pet. A Pt8. 
23 12 .522 5 17 
21 8 .381 6. 14 
19 8 .421 3 11 
22 4 .182 3 17 
20 4 .200 ~ 7 
8 3 .375 1 4 13 2 .154 2 4 5 1 .200 2 3 0 0 .000 2 2 8 0 .000 1 1 
2  0  .000  1  1  
1  1  1.000  0  1  
3 4  0 1  .000 .250  1 0  1 1  - 
4  1  ,2®  0  l  

.765 

MarkradY, M 10 2 0 .000 0 0 
.656 6.5 

Mark Riztierl, M 4 1 0 .000 0 0
.515 17.5 .323 30 

Randy McDonald, 0 16 0 0 .000 0 0 
.250 34.5 

Kevin O'Connor, D 16 0 0 ,000 0 0 
.203 37.5 

!ltindi!l Qablll, o 112 0 Q .goo 0 0 
0 0 .000 0 0 0 0 .000 0 0 0 0 .000 0 0 0 0 .000 0 0 150 45 .300 30 75 112 32 .286 14 46 
0 
0 0 10 18 
R 0 1 3 3 
2 
0 0 96 90 
ER 0 0 1 2 
4 0 0 96 49 
w 
0 0 0 Q 
3 0 0 80 54 
L 0 0 0 
Q 
.077 .000 .000 .275 .307 
ERA 0.00 0.00 1.80 360 

Erik Ma n 6 1 29.2 26 6 20 16 14 3 1 4.:<5 Mike Passilla 7 1 18.2 19 8 7 13 10 1 2 4.82 Kevin Chenaii 4 0 15.0 19 4 4 11 10 1 1 6.00 Tom Howard 3 0 5.2 7 3 0 5 4 0 0 6.35 
17 12 1 3 6.61 2 2 0 0 10.80 23 18 0 3 12.79 10 8 0 0 24.00 104 81 6 10 6.23 113 87 10 6 6.26 
; NCAA Sweet Sixteen 



-::_~~"'*

Monday, March 28 ~;IJII' Jf.)t Library Auditorium &Jl®©N©rni'OO 
Domestic Policy Debate 
7p.m. Featuring Panelists: 
Dr. Perry Arnold Head of Notre Dame Government Department 
Mr. Patrick Pierce Saint Mary's Government Departtnent 
ADWcmKS 


-page 10 The Observer 
Kite hopeful after defeat, looks to Champio·nships 
Associated Press 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -It could have been a downer for Tom Kite. 
"I had my chances. I just wasn't able to do it," he said of the last-round bid that was blunted by Paul Azinger last Sunday in the Bay Hill Classic. 
On the back nine, Kite twice closed to within one shot of the lead before Azinger pulled away to a five-stroke victory. 
"It would be easy to walk away with your head down, feeling despondent,'' Kite said. 
"But that serves no useful purpose. 
"I'm looking at it as a posi­tive," he said before a practice round for the $1.25 million Players Championship that begins Thursday on the tour's home course, the TPC at Sawgrass. 
"Obviously, I'm doing some­thing right. I had an excellent chance to win. It was just not to be," Kite said. "When you go against a man with a one­shot lead and he shoots 66, he probably was supposed to win." 
"I'm looking forward to the next couple of weeks, or the next two tournaments I'm playing, the Players Champi­onship and the Masters," Kite said. 

In the re-named Players Championship (formerly the Tournament Players Champi­onship), he faces the strongest field of the year in an event that grows annually in prestige. 
The tournament, developed by PGA tour Commissioner Deane Beman, is designed as the annual championship of golf's touring pros. It is no se­cret Beman aims for so-called "major" status; that is, placing the Players Champion­ship on a level with the Masters, U.S. and British Opens and the PGA. 
Wednesday, March 23, 1988 

Keith Hernandez and Darryl Strawberry are looking to lead the heavily-favored New York Mets back atop the National League East this season. A preview of that division is on page 13. 
n.a.....NotAl Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, ..:c:ephl clus.lfled -'-tieing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.~Saint Mwy's office, located on the third floor of H-uo-Collge Center, accepts clualfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day clualfledsls 3 p.m. All clualfleds must 
be pnlpQI, eltlwf In person 01" by mall. The charge Is 10 cenhl per five char8cters per~­



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272-U27 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
WORD¢PLUS Scholastic Typing.'Editing 256-3077 
BOOKSTORE T-SHIRTS $8 COMING THURSDAY YELLOW 100% COTION 
( LOST/FOUND I 
LOSTI LOSTII LOST II I LOST MY FRIEND'S RADIO HEAD­SET ON WEDNESDAY, 3-2118. WHERE? IN THE VARSITY WEIGHTROOM IN THE ACC. PLEASEI IF YOU PICKED IT UP, CALL ME TO RETURN IT. IT WOULD BE GREATLY APPRECIATED BY ME AND MY FRIEND. 
THANKS, VIVIANNE 283-1362 
HELP!!! LOST WATCH A GRUEN WATCH WITH A LEATHER BAND AND SQUARE FACE WAS LOST LAST DEC. MAYBE LOST IN BAIGETS. VERY HIGH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OF­FERED. IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT IT CALL 277-3226 
FOUND: WATCH IN ENGINEERING AUD. ON THURS. MARCH 3. CALL 3702 
LOST ONE PAIR OF SILVER PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN A BLUE HARD CASE. LOST AFTER A BASKETBALL GAME BETWEEN THE ACC AND THE MAIN CIRCLE. PLEASE CALL JOE AT 4642. 
LOST: TWO CALCULATORS ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26TH I THINK AT THE NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 1075. 
LOST/TAKEN I!! dark blue Allergen make­up bag from the lost and found box of 1st floor O'Shag. It was only missing for an hour, yet it was lifted. What good are my cosmeUcs going lo do you?l The re­placemenl cosl will be near $75. Call upon your sense of decency and please relum the items to 1st floor O'Shag, the lost and found, or 112 Lyons! £2903. Thanks! 
LOST AQUA-BLUE-OFF-WHITE SCARF MADE IN SCOTLAND TAG LOST THURS 3-3-87 BETWEEN DOME, BOOKSTORE, AND HOWARD REWARD OFFERED PLEASE CALL 2548 OR RETURN TO 226 HOWARD THANK YOU LOST AQUA-BLUE-OFF-WHITE SCARF REWARD OFFERED 
..____FO_R_R_ENT ___JI
_ 
LARGE N.D. AVE. HOME AVAIL. FOR FALL TERM; LEASE PLUS DEPOSIT; 255-5852 evenings 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEYT YEAR 268-0955-255­
3684 
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID 288-0955 -~ . .... 
2 & 7 BEDROQ~. HOMES FOR RENT, SUMMER ~r NEXT FALL 272-8308 Large 5 bedroom house near campus. 1 year lease. Call 277-7360 days or 272­6181 evenings. 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21¢, Coed, sleepaway cemp, MassachuseHs Barkshires, WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, piano-jllay for shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, guitar, radio, video, archery, year­book, woodworking, AN and typist. Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779-9406. 
wii.itiEl-"KA:·;i:·;~;;;-;;;ii·'fu~-d~Yii;;;~·;i~: 
dent as summer girl. 312-446-3171 
eves. 
NANNIES NEEDED ·SOUTH FLORIDA Nannle&'Mothers Helpers, no lee, 1 year minimum commitment. 1-800-9­NANNY-1 Modern Day Nannies, Inc. 
Ride needed to1rom Baltimore for Easter.Leave 3-30 aft. Astrid-3194 
WAITRESSES NEEDED Flexible hours The Dock: 616-699-5060 
Sell me some grad tixs. 3282 Steve 
RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE Fri. Mar. 25 Can leave anytime Fri. or even Thurs. evening Will share expenses Call Heidi 233-4176, evenings or early mor­ning. 
Two students need ride to St. Louis for Easter week-end. Will help pay for ex­penses. Call -1046 or -4183. 
TELEMARKETERS -DAY & EVENING SHIFTS. $4MR. CALL AFTER 1 PM 683-0861. 
································································ 
FOR SALE 
NEW 13" PORT BW TV. $50 277-4149 
Model 1 00 Portable Computer $267.00 Call 256-3077 
SUPER SINGLE WATERBED WITH DARII: PINE BOOKCASE HEAD­BOARD. GREAT CONDITION. IN­CLUDES HEATER & BUMPER PADS. $200 FIRM. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 P.M. 
BOOKSTORE T-SHIRTS COMING THURSDAY YELLOW 100% COTION 
21" Fuji CLUB apple red-yellow trim very lo miles. wtacc. greattriathlete bike. 277­2638 
································································ 
TICKETS 
HELP! HELP! Anyone with extra GRATE­FUL DEAD tickets for either one of the Chicago shows, please call ScoH at 3217 or Erin at 1302. Will pay $$. 
\'--_PE_RSO_N_AL_S.___J 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
AAJAX 
"DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY GOAT IS?" 
RUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have your carpet professionally cleaned by The Rug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Oil­campus negotiable. We also do fumijure. Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY 
Oh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracle near Kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful inter­cessor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present urgent petition, In return, I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and Glories. Publication must be promised. St. Jude pray for us who invoke your aid. Amen. This Novena must be said for 9 consecutive days. 
gil out duh wayl 
nan sauer for UMOC... Just when you 
thought it was safe 
to vote for a decent, upstanding 
American citizen... nan sauer for 
UMOC ... 
that's mah tickeet!! 
BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts 
Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30, 7days-Week 233-2342 
SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE!Apr. 15-17. Used Books 50-90% off. New books 30% off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30 7 days! week. 233-2342 
THE STONE HENGE ROMEOS 
ROCK CHIPS!!! 
COME OUT AND PARTY WITH THE 
STONE HENGE ROMEOS AT CHIPS 
3-25 & 3-26. THE STONE HENGE 
ROMEOS AT CHIPS 
WITH AWESOME DRINK SPE­
CIALS!!!!! 
DID YOU HERE THE NEWS? THE STONE HENGE ROMEOS WILL ROCK CHIPS. DON'T MISS THEM! 
Need ride to Philly or D. C. area for Easter break. Will share expenses. Please call Tasha X4041. 
SMAll BUSINESS EMPLOYMENT OP· PORTUNITIES Presented by Mr. Dell Lucas, career counselor and Ms. Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career & Placement Services. Foster Room -LaFortune Student Center. 4:00 p.m., March 24. Students of all classes and majors welcome. 
SMALL BUSINESS EMPLOYMENT OP­PORTUNITIES Presented by Mr. Dell Lucas, career counselor and Ms. Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career & Placement Services. Foster Room -LaFortune Student Center. 4:00 p.m., March 24. Students of all classes and majors welcome. 
DO YOU REMEMBER THE CALENDAR OF EVENTS? MEMORIES FROM MARCH 23, 1987... THERE'S A MAN BEHIND THAT TREEII WILL THERE BE ANY MEMORIES FROM SML THIS SPRING? OR DO YOU WANT TO BREAK PARIE­TALS? 
SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES TOGAI THIS SATURDAY AT MITCHEL'S BUY TIX AT CLASS OF­FICE WED(3:3G-5) THU(2:30-4) FRI(1 :30-3) ONLY $&COUPLE & $&SINGLE 
International Festival Sat.,March 26,7:30 PM Washington Hall FREE ADMISSION 
TO THE GIRL WHO WORKS IN NORTH DINING HALL FOR LUNCH, BLONDE HAIR, I THINK YOUR NAME IS KRIS­TEN, I'VE BEEN WATCHING YOU, I KNOW IT'S KINDA' WEAK TO BEG FOR A DATE IN THE PERSONALS, BUT HOW 'BOUT A RESPONSE DAN 

Oh, you betcha! I need a ride to the Minneapolis-St. Paul area for Easter. I can leave as early as 
Wed. afternoon and would like to return Tuesday morning. I'll pay money, share expenses, etc. Call Kris at 4505. 
BAND, BEER, AND BRIDGET'S Zeta and the Heats ons and .85 Molsons Wednesday, 7-10 
Cavanaugh Hall Productions presents 
Gore Vidal's 
.,.... THE BEST MAN .... Thursday -Friday -Saturday Library Auditorium 7:30p.m. 
"You're the one with the problem • how to get girls Into the White House!" 
WHAT REALLY MAKES A PRESIDENT ANYWAY? 
"Just because he's a bastard don't mean he wouldn't be a good can­didate" 
"I realize some of my methods upset a lot of people..." 
THERE ARE RUMORS ABOUT EVERY PUBLIC MAN:..and WOMAN 
"Deny everything! Deny you've ever been In Mexico." 
He's a NEUROTIC who had a BREAK­DOWN • and his SEX life Is certainly not normal. Why shouldn't he be PRESIDENT, considering the altema· tlve... 
"Nobody with that aw1ul wile and those ugly children could be anything but heterosexual" 
IrS THE MAIN EVENT 
Even CRAZY Dick Nixon didn't con­sider suicidal 
"Can you prove this?" "I'll make you wish you'd never been born" 
Preny Boy ¢ Di-Spring Break was great. The east will "nevah" be the same! Sa­tween late-night Mario, Casablanca, Har­vard ¢ B.C., shopping, ¢ my book, who could help having funl?! Thanks! ANN 
BOOKSTORE T-SHIRTS $8 COMING THURSDAY YELLOW 100% COTION 
Dear HB, THREE reasons why FIVE Is Important 
to us: 2-For the "ID" that you used five months ago today. 3-To be delivered later. One of our quotes: "Put your tiny hands In mine ... 'Ill the 
end of time." YOU'RE THE BEST!!! ·I LOVE YOU Ill Father Figure 
Happy Birthday Andrew! You're ONE in a millionll Luv T&C 
Now Appearing on the Lido Deck ... ZETO and the HEAT-ONS Tonight at BRIDGET'S 
Dine and Dance with... ZETO and the HEAT-ONS Tonite at BRIDGET'S 8:00­10:00 
THE GREAT COKE OUT SUPPORT THE BOYCOTI MARCH 22-25 
THE GREAT COKE OUT MARCH 22-25 SUPPORT THE BOYCOTI 
··································· 

BRIDGET'S BARTENDER APPLICA· TlONS Are being taken this week come by between 2:30-4:00, ask lor Camllo Need not be 21 until next yeer Deadline: Friday, March 25 
BAND AT BRIDGET'S Zeta and the Heats ons .85 Molsona Wednesday, 7-10 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CAROL PlATZ!!!! (AKA "MOM") WE LOVE YOU LOTS!!! RUTH AND CAROLYN 
SANIBEL SPRING BREAK It brought the family closer together S--wEEEEt Man in motion I'm having the BEST time--let's EATI Flying banana muffins Get out of my dreams and into my car overdue library books I need a bathing suit that won't fall down without straps Oh my God! You have chicken pox! Will you rub lotion on my back? DQIJerry's runs THANKS FOR A GREAT TIME, GUYS! LOVE, MOJ AND ROS 
···························································· 
NEW ORLEANS!!!!II Round trip tickets from South Bend March 30-April 4 GREAT PRICE!II!I! Call x2B09 soon!! 
Things We Won't Miss XX: "How Was Your Break?" 
Catch The Wave: Coke 
Allante 

I'll make you forgel all about those cheap 
BMW's Lambe 
Brian 

Being perlect is overrated 
I know 
I've been there Sam 

For sale:Round trip airline ticket(Amer. West):Chicago-Phoenix leave:31 MarchTH720A Return:4ApriiM0800A Call X1150 
Will Don Elbert Sing? Find Out Tonight ZETO and the HEAT-ONS at BRIDGET'S 8:00-10:00 85 cent Mic­helobs 
April 26, 1988 The day the Atlanta Braves are mathe­matically eliminated from the playoffs. 
THE TOP TEN PLACES VISITED BY THE WASHINGTON SEMINAR GROUP: 
9. 
Kennedy Center parking garage. 

10. 
Brickskellar. To be continued . .. 



Top 10 quotes from Washington D.C.: 
1. Where am I going lo get a newspa­per. 2. A senator from North Carolina-­
J.R. Reid. 3. You two look like your pets just died. 4. I think this is a bad part of lawn. 5. I draw a magic circle.. To be continued . .· 
DRIVING TO IOWA FOR EASTER? I need a ride to Marshalltown, Ames, or close by. Will share expenses. Call Jeff 3061 
BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL XVII MANDATORY CAPTAIN'S MEETING TONIGHT AT 6:30 IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM TO PICK UP SCHEDULES. 
PAULSY FLAKE PEEL LOBSTER 
Stop Touching Me!!! 
b.j. 

To all those who helped out wijh the Junior Class election campaign: You are the greatest, thank you so very much. Sincerely, Bill "Fitz," DeeDee, Joe and Jack To DeeDee, Joe and Jack: You gave me 11 0%, we gave it our best shot and I love you three for it. Friends Forever, I think you know who! 
Shoebox Greetings (a tiny lmle divi­sion of Hallmark) Is looking lor humor writers. You'll find a challenging career In creating Innovative greeting cards that represent a fresh alterna­tive to traditional humor cards. Shoebox oilers a competitive salary, a stimulating creative environment and one of the finest benefit programs available. Just write 10 (ten) humorous greeting card Ideas on a single sheet of paper and send them along with your resume and S.A.S.E. 
to: · 
Editorial Manager 
Shoebox Greetings 
·Mall Drop No. 200 
Hallmark Cards, Inc. 
Post Office Box 419580 
Kansas City, MO 641416580 

Special Information: "How to Say No the Haalthy Way" Send $1 to LlleCom, Box 1832, St. Cloud, MN 56302. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­INGS 914-3814224 
It is really sad when a guy can get beat 
up by a girl and then make up silly ex­
cuses for the scratches on his nose. 
WANDA THE FISH 
The ullimate SYR date... 

Sandy--so tell me, wherever did you find those awesome shoelaces? --A concerned citizen 
Stick with me kid ... l'llleave you alone on Wednesday night with a bunch of... You will be missed I 
KENDRA LEE, Here's the personal you requested. Thanks for a job extremely well done (including late headline changes, yes, 1 saw them). 
Mark 
BAND AND BEER AT BRIDGET'S .85 MOLSONS and Zeta and the Heats ons Wednesday, 7·10 
I NEED A MIRACLE TICKETS TO WEDS. DEAD SHOW IN CHICAGO DESPERATE! X1945 CHRIS 
JACK B WAS SEEN IN WPB FL WITH A HAREM OF 4. THEN WHY WAS HE CAUGHT SCOPING IN THE URINALS? 
ZETO AND THE HEAT-ONS-BRIDGETS 
WED 23 8-10 85 CENT MICHELOB'S 
WHO IS ZETO? WHAT IS A HEAT-ON? SEE WHAT ITS LIKE WHEN ZETO PUTS THE HEAT-ON 85 CENT MIC­HELOBS THERE'S A UTILE BIT OF ZETO IN ALL OF US 
TOASTMASTERS GUEST SPEAKER KITTY ARNOLD CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES 
7:30 PM Am 223 HH EVERYBODY WELCOME 

ATIENTION 68 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 
Bartles Imports BMWMAZDPNW All 
JETIAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends 
April 30th 



Wednesday, March 23, 1988 The Observer page 11 
At-' 1-'hoto 

strategy for their Sweet 16 matchup with Kansas State this week. A related story Is at left. 
oilermakers need ore than scoring 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­Purdue's season-record .534 shooting percentage might not mean much in the huge and un­familiar Silverdome, so rebounding is even more im­portant in Friday night's NCAA game with Kansas State, Coach Gene Keady said Tuesday. 
The third-ranked Boiler­makers, who manhandled the Wildcats 101-72 in December, are expecting a tougher time in their rematch at Pontiac, Mich., in the Midwest Regional semifinals. 
Vanderbilt plays Kansas in the other semifinal. 
"In the dome, the shooting may not be as effective, so you'd better get some second and third shots," said Keady. "We think that will be very im­portant in this game." 
Purdue's top rebounders are senior forward Todd Mitchell and junior center Melvin McCants, both under six 
' rebounds a game. Right behind them is senior guard Troy Lewis, the team's leading scorer at 17.8 points and 4.6 rebounds and the top gunner with at least one 3-point goal m each of the past 65 games. 
McCants, who averaged 13.7 points during the regular season, has shown steady im­provement in the middle, scoring a career-high 26 points against Fairleigh Dickinson and 20 against Memphis State in the Boilermakers' two tour­ney victories so far. 
"He's just a young man, but 
now his years of playing and 
his maturity are paying off," 
Keady said of the 6-foot-9 
McCants. "He's got the experi­
ence like the seniors, and he 
has the confidence and the 
other players are confident in 
him. 
"It's one of those things that 
happen," Keady said of 
McCants' sudden emergence. 
"He has arrived at that level. 
Hopefully he can keep it going. 
He's a deserving young man 
because he's worked very 
hard." 
Kansas State Coach Lon Kruger, who joined Keady on a teleconference call, said the biggest difference in the Wildcats since their earlier game at Purdue was in an al­tered lineup. 


FREE ADMISSION!! Thuradtly 9:30 •t TIMiodora'a 


GROW WITH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your 
potential,  look  into  the  many  
opportunities  available  in  NAVY  
MEDICINE.  
• Medical Scholarships  

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Scie.nce Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses 


The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a professional career plus the unique benefits and rewarding lifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefit!i 


A Navy Medical Programs representative will be on campus on MarchJo; 1988 JOB FAIR. Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. 
1-800-527-8836 
~· 

Purdue's leading scorer, Troy Lewis, tries to move around a Michigan State defender earlier this season. Lewis and the Boilermakers are eevlslng 


Women 
continued from page 16 
mark for the Irish by defeating Shelin Ohlsson 7-6 (7-2), 6-4 at number two singles. No doubles matches were played. 
Next on the schedule for the Irish was their host, UNLV. Un­fortunately, the Rebels were in no mood to entertain their guests, cruising to a 6-1 win. 
Kim Pacella ruined UNLV's shot at a shutout, posting a 6-4, 3-6, 6-4 victory over Anna Cas­tanecki at number four singles. 
The Irish faced Alabama on Wednesday, losing 2-7 in their first match ever against the Crimson Tide. 
Although the Notre Dame women dropped all six singles 

Saint Mary's College Department of Communication &Theatre presen1s 
direction and production design March 24th thru 27th at 8 pm ROBERT GRAHAM SMALl Haggar Parlor/Saint Mary's College 
--~ --­Saint Mary's Coli~~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


events, they managed to cap­ture two of the three doubles matches played. 
Lohrer and Illig beat Beth Marrow and Thayer 6-3, 6-4 at number two, while Uhll and Bradshaw stormed past Molly Fiuk and Susan Sherman 6-1, 6-2. 
The magic returned for the Irish in Friday's match against Princeton. Notre Dame's 6-3 victory over the Tigers reflected the manner in which the team has come together throughout the season. 
Cahill defeated Hilary Shane 6-3, 6-3 at number one singles. Dasso beat Lisa Nyman 6-2, 6-3 at the number two position, Pacella edged Susie Wer­theimer 7-6 (7-3), 3-6, 6-0 at number four, and Illig emerged victorious over Aditi Viswarat­han 0-6, 6-2, 7-5 at number five. 
In doubles competition, Cahill and Dasso combined to defeat Lauren Fortgang and Viswarathan 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 in the number one position. Lohrer and Illig beat Shane and Wer­theimer 7-6 (7-5), 3-6, 6-3 at number two doubles. 
The trip came to a close on Saturday, when Notre Dame dropped its match to Utah 7-2. 
Cahill powered by Michelle Myas 6-1, 7-5 at number one singles, and the tandem of Illig and Lohrer put away Natalie Newell and Kristin Siegmund 6-4, 6-3 to post the only marks for the Irish against the Utes. All in all, coach Michelle Gelfman was pleased with the team's spring performance. 
Men 
continued from page 16 
showing the poise Bayliss had been looking for. Notre Dame was sparked by the grueling doubles win of the tandem of Dave Reiter and Mike Wallace. Reiter and Wallace showed stamina and concentration, winning 6-7, 6-3, 6-3. 
Harvard University was the next stop on the team trip. Bayliss knew Notre Dame would be heavy underdogs and was looking for an upset. It was St. Patrick's Day. The Irish were in Boston. Unfortunately all the luck in the world couldn't have helped the Irish, who were trounced 7-2. The suprise of the day came from freshmen Paul Odland. Odland stunned Harvard's Ken Hao in straight sets 6-3 7-6. 
In the final match of the trip Notre Dame went to West Point and crushed Army, 8-1. The Irish are definitely an indoor team and played a powerful match, led again by Kalbas as well as captain Dan Walsh. 

-

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, March 23, 1988 

ND wrestlers 37th 
•


1n NCAA tourney 

Sports Briefs 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Things did not work out quite the way the way the Notre Dame wrestling team was hoping at last week's NCAA Championships. 
Hoping to place in the top 20, the Irish finished 37th in the na­tional championships, held at Ames, Ia. Of the six Notre Dame wrestlers who qualified for the NCAA's, only Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser won a match. 
"I was disappointed," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "I felt we had the team to get in the top 20. We had enough people there qualifying. In or­der to place in the top 20, we'd have had to have a couple of people to place and have some other people help by winning some matches." 
Any further hopes Durso had of placing were squelched when he lost to Oklahoma's T.J. Sewell by a 9-4 count in the con­solation round. 
"He beat him (Sewell) ear­lier in the year, and he was up 5-2 with 20 seconds left," said McCann. "He got taken down to his back, and it cost him the match. He was in control up to that point." 
Geneser, a junior seeded seventh in the 177-pound divi­sion, began with an impressive 18-6 victory over Rick Evans of Brigham Young. In the next round, however, Purdue's Joe Urso toppled Geneser 5-2 in overtime after the two had wrestled to a 7-7 tie at the end of regulation. Virginia's Derek Capanna defeated Geneser 13-9 in the consolation round. 
"Geneser didn't perform to his potential,'' said McCann. 

A Sports Writers Meeting will be held tomorrow night at 10 in The Observer offices in LaFortune. Spring assignments will be discussed, and new writers are welcome. Those unable to attend should contact Marty Strasen at 239-5303 or 283-1489. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing Club is looking for anyone interested in teaching sailing for the spring semester. Call Mike at x3508 if inter­ested. The Sailing Club also will have a meeting to tonight at 6:30 in the boathouse to discuss the freshman ice breaker. -The Obser­ver 
An Tostal mud volleyball signups will be 6:30-8:30 p.m. today in 307 LaFortune. Each team must have seven players including a minimum of two women. Only one women's varsity or men's club player can participate on each team. The tournament has a 128-team limit, and a $7 entry fee is required of each team. Anyone with questions should call Mic­helle Gund at 284-5184. -The Observer 
Men's Open Soccer tournament rosters will be accepted at the NVA office until to­morrow at 5 p.m. A captains' meeting will be held on Friday at 4:30 p.m. in the football auditorium. Tournament play begins this weekend. Any questions should be directed to NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Chinese Tai Ji exercise classes will begin tomorrow. The NVA-sponsored classes will meet for an hour on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7 p.m. in the Joyce ACC Boxing Room for the next four weeks. Students may register in advance at NVA by paying a $4 registration fee. For more information, call instructor Hongyi Sun at 239-5252 or the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Women's soccer practice begins today, weather permitting, for anyone interested in playing in the spring tournament. Players should meet at 4 p.m. at Stepan Field. Any questions should be directed to Susan at x4541. -The Observer 
Durso and Gesneser were the "He had beaten him (Urso) by wrestle with any confidence. I only wrestlers who came rela­10 points earlier in the year. He don't care if they're freshmen tively close to placing in the made too many mental mis­or sophomores, they still have tournament. Durso, the junior takes. If he'd won that match, to wrestle to their abilities and 

co-captain seeded third in the he would have been in the they didn't." nation among 134-pounders, driver's seat to place." Despite the less than spectac­won his first two matches. Notre Dame's other four ular finish, McCann expressed 
oe''"ert 
But after defeating Anibal qualifiers, including 119-pound satisfaction with the season, Nieves of East Stroudsburg sophomore Andy Radenbaugh, which saw the Irish post a 6-6 (default) and John Viola of Vir­142-pound senior co-captain record that included a win over gmta 9-3, Durso fell to Ron Wisniewski, 150-pound a nationally-ranked Nebraska 
THBYELLOW Northwestern's Joe Bales in a freshman Todd Layton and 158-squad. controversial 2-0 match. Bales pound freshman Mark 
SUBIIARINB 
eventually placed fifth in the Gerardi, were not able to win "We wanted to get a lot of 
''Nicest Buns In Town"
tournament. a match. kids into nationals and be com­
"Jerry ran into a little bad "Ron Wisniewski had the ex­petitive with some of the top luck," said McCann. "He lost perience, but he didn't look teams in the country, and we HAM SALAMI a really tough one. There were really good," said McCann. did that with a young team," 
CORNED BEEF PEPPERONI a couple of questionable of­"Our younger kids wrestled said McCann. "We've got a lot VEGETARIAN MEATBALLficiating calls." like freshmen. They didn't to look forward to next season." 

NAVY HIRING EXECUTIVE TRAIN·EES 
You can do a lot more with your degree than just get a job. As a Navy officer, you can lead the adventure! 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
ALL majors considered 


Today"s Navy is top-flight people working with the best in their field. It's also sophisticated technical and management training in executive, managerial, professional, scientific and technical positions. 
You don't have to wait until you graduate! Navy Officer representatives will be on campus conduct­ing an exclusive testing session. All interested stu­dents who are within 3 years of graduating are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity. Testing takes approximately JV2 hours and seats are limited. 

PLACE: CAP.EER AND PLACEMENT SERVICF.S C::.:.:..::ONF:..:ERENCE=;_::.:::"_:RCX:M__:_:____________ 
256 1455

Testing appointment may be obtained by calling __ _-__ _______ 
FLIGHT OFFICER: . Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 correctable vision. Ages 19-26. Operate the electromcs & computers in the Navy's newest aircraft. 
BUSINESS MANAGER: Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Finance, personnel, logistics. Ages 19-28" 

ENGINEER: Start at $23,500 ($45,000 after 4 years). Bonus when selected. Project management. Engineering/Science/ 
Technical major. Ages 19-28. 
SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS: 

NAVAL AVIATION CADET: . . . Sophomores from 4-year or Community College that are undecided about contmumg college may qualtfy for immediate Pilot training. Requirements: 60 semester hours, 2.5 GPA, and pass the aptitude test. Smgle/no dependents. 
AVIATION RESERVE OFFICER CANDIDATE: Guaranteed Pilot/Flight Officer Training at AOCS (Pensacola, FL) during Junior year summer break and upon completion of BS/BA degree. 
BACCALAUREATE DEGREE COMPLETION PROGRAM: . . An Affirmative Action program for students with a "B" average, or better. Selected students w1ll rece1ve $1000 a month until graduation. No drilling or meetings required. 
EXCEPTIONAL ENGINEERING STUDENT PROGRAM: Sophomores & Juniors majoring in Engineering, Math, Physics, or Chemistry. Must maintain _a 3.3/4.0 GPA: Selected students will receive $1100 a month until graduation, plus add11tonal bonuses. No dnllmg or meetmgs 
required. 
Must be a U.S. citizen & in good health. 
NAVY¥OFFICER. 

TURKEY  TUNA SALAD  
FRENCH DIP  OiiCKEN SALAD  
PIZZA  ANDSPEOALS  
PASTRAMI  

PEPPERONI-MEATBAll 
ASSORTED CUTS 
The Italian-Ham, Salami, Pepperoni 
Oub Combo -Roast Beef, Ham, Turkey 
Super Combo -Ham, Salami, Honey Loaf 
ALL ON Wlil'm OR WHOU: WHEAT BUNS BAKED FRESH THEDA Y YOU EAT THEM WITii NO PRESERVATIVES 
---SEASONm TO PLEASE YOUK TASTE---­l.ETI'UcE, ONION, TOMATO, ITAUAN DRESSING, MAYONAISE. YELLOW AND BROWN MUSTARD. AND YOUR CHOICE OF CHEEZE-MOZZARELLA. SWISS. AMERICAN. OR PROVOLONE 
ALSO AVAILABLE AT NO £XTRA OIARCE 
PICKLES, BLACK OUVES, SALT, PEPPER. JALAPENO AND BANANA PEPPERS. OREGANO. RED HOT SAUCE 
FRESH SALAD-Try Our New Super Salad 
DRINKS .55 -.65 • .75 -LOO Pepsi, Diet. Mounrain Dew, Teem, Dr. Pepper, Grape, Orange, Upper 10, Lemonade, Fruit Punch, Icc Tea, Root Beer 
WITH SERVICE THATS READY WHEN YOU ARE 
MONDAY-SATURDAY 10am-10pm 
SUNDAY 11am~pm 
AT PRICES YOU CAN TRUST 
8" Footlong And 2' up to 6' $2.()(}-$2.99 $3.00 -$3.99 At speaa:Ii'nces 

We Deliver Within 3 Miles -$6.00 Minimum Order 

N







;p.· 
~ •.' ·~ L-~~·fi.;c;~ ;;.;}iff?/\i'i'£i~2"'i,'E ~~i~~~:.;;f,o ?;E~::.;>E§4ig~~~-;;:~":~;::~ 
18109 SR 23-JUST WEST OF IRONWOD-272-4453 
LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 

ednesday, March 23, 1988 The Observer a e 13 
• 
.v. Mets are cream of the crop 1n NL East 
Associated Press we would hit like we did last Montreal, Pittsburgh and 
year even if Jack was here," Philadelphia all can score 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. -Jack Herzog said. runs, and the Expos have put Clark is in Yankee pinstripes, For a power source, the Car-together one of the better pitch­the Mets are favored to win the dinals signed free agent Bob ing staffs in baseball. The East, and the Expos and Horner. Chicago Cubs have woeful Pirates are moving up on the Horner, who played in Japan pitching but can score runs. outside. last season, will play first and 
It's just another pennant the Cards need him to stay New York Mets race for Whitey Herzog. healthy. · 
The Cardinals and Manager "Potentially, we've got a The rotation of Dwight Herzog took advantage of the chance to be a very good ball Gooden, Ron Darling, Bob Mets decimated pitching staff club," Herzog said. "But we Ojeda, Sid Fernandez and Rick and mangled morale in 1987 to may have to approach it a little Aguilera is healthy and will 
win the National Leagae East different than we did last year. for the third time this decade. We may have to win more low-And, St. Louis won despite run ball games." several! key injuries of their To stay on top, Herzog made own. improving the starting rotation 
Now, they must overcome his primary goal and he says the loss of Clark, who signed as the Cards accomplished that make the Mets hard to beat if it stays that way. 
The Mets finished three games behind the Cardinals last season and the difference was the New York bullpen. 
The Mets lost six times in Jeff Parrett and Randy St. Claire. 
The starters were shaky at the beginning of last season, but Dennis Martinez and Pas­cual Perez were signed and combined for an 18-4 record. 
The Expos are strong at the corners with Andres Galarraga at first and Tim Wallach (26 homers, 123 RBI) at third. 
St. Louis Cardinals 
The Cardinals need big seasons from their starting rotation of John Tudor, Danny pitching and the Phillies couldn't in 1987. 
Although the rotation of Shane Rawley, Kevin Gross, Don Carman, and Bruce Ruffin were the only starting four in the NL who each threw for 200 innings in 1987, they were only a combined 50-52. 
Steve Bedrosian, who played a part in 45 of the Phils' 80 vic­tories, has struggled in spring training because of injuries. 
The Phillies are strong at the top of the batting order with Milt Thompson, Juan Samuel, Von Hayes and Mike Schmidt. 
Cox, Joe Magrane, Jose DeLeon They have added outfielder and Greg Mathews. Phil Bradley (14, homers, 67 
Tudor suffered a broken leg RBI) in a trade that sent Glenn last April, but came back and Wilson to Seattle and outfielder finished 10-2 in 16 games. Mike Young (16 homers) from 
Like the Expos, the Cards Baltimore. have lots of talent in the bullpen with Todd Worrell (33 saves) Chicago Cubs and Ken Dayley. Herzog may also add rookie Cris Carpenter The Cubs made a major off-to the pen. season move when they sent 
The Cardinals have lost ace reliever Lee Smith (who Clark, but still have the speed last year notched 36 saves and and defense of Ozzie Smith four victories) to Boston for (ss), Terry Pendleton (3b) and· pitchers AI Nipper and Calvin 
Willie McGee and Vince Cole­man in the outfield. 
The key on offense will be im­proved production from catcher 'l'ony Pena (.214) and outfielder Jim Lindeman . 
Pittsburgh Pirates 
The Pirates have pitching, defense, hitting and speed. Power? No, but four out of five makes this team dangerous. Just ask the Mets. 
The Pirates won 27 of their last 38 games including three of six from New York down the stretch. 
Rookie Mike Dunne, who didn't pitch in the majors until June, finished 13-6 with a 3.03 ERA. he heads a staff of Doug Drabek, Brian Fisher and Bob Walk. General Manager Syd Thrift strenghtened the bullpen with the additions of Jim Gott (13 saves) and Jeff Robins. 
Philadelphia Phillies 
It's hard to hide poor starting Schiraldi. 
New Manager Don Zimmer will probably have lots of dif­ferent pitching rotations as the year progresses. 
Rick Sutcliffe is No. 1. After that there's Nipper, Scott San­derson, Les Lancaster, Greg Maddux, Jamie Moyer, and maybe Schiraldi. 
Zimmer would like to see them just get out of the first inning. Overall, the Cubs trailed 44 times after one inning last year. 
The Cubs were actually playing well last season until both second baseman Ryne Sandberg and shortstop Shawon Dunston went on the disabled list in June. 
Jim Frey is the new general manager and he says the Cubs have loads of talent in the minors. First baseman Mark Grace is pushing Leon Durham at first and the catcher of the future is Damon Berryhill. 
Senior Form 
Tuxedo Special 
Classic Black..Tuxedo 
Hegularly $44"" 
All Other Tuxedos, Tails & Designer Tuxes 
Hegularly $4H"" -!)()·· 
CuaranteeJ 1st choice anJ fit on idl orJers placeJ hefore :\pril 1st. 
man tells another. it's 
.,~~ ''"" """"
l.CJ ~ Mon. & Thurs.: !1:00 to H:OO 
Tues .. \\-cd .. & Fri.: !1:00 In 5::10 Sat. · !1:00 In 5:00 
a free agent with the New York with the acquisition of Jose 1987 after taking the lead into Yankees. DeLeon from the Chicago the ninth inning. New York 
The Cardinals scored 5.2 runs White Sox for reliever Rick needs Roger McDowell to per game with Clark in the· Horton and outfielder Lance return to his 1986 form. Randy lineup, 3.6 runs without him. Johnson. Myers takes over for Jesse 
But Herzog will adjust -he The Mets have the best talent Orosco as the No. !left-handed usually does. in the division and will be hard reliever. Myers throws very 
"I think we might surprise to beat. But they also have hard but has bouts of wildness. some people. I hate to lose Jack shown cracks in the bullpen (Clark), just like everybody and defense at second and The Mets led the league in else does, but I think we can be third. They also have a paten­hitting (.268) and runs scored better pitching-wise to make up tially explosive atmosphere in (823) and that could improve if for a lot of it. I don't think that the clubhouse. Keith Hernandez and Gary 
~!l!lf•••••••••••••••~c:arter rebound from subpar 
STEVECORR? 
STE\'ECORR? 
TEVECORR. HAPPY 
21st 
BRITHDAY GOTCHA 
Montreal Expos 
The Expos were 28-14 in one­run games last season and 12-1 in extra inning games thanks to the best bullpen in baseball. 
That wasn't suppose to hap­pen. 
Prior to last season, Montreal traded relief ace Jeff Reardon to Minnesota for starter Neal Heaton. Reardon had combined for 76 saves in 1985 and '86. 
Manager Buck Rodgers took a page from Herzog's book, and put together a bullpen by com­mittee: Tim Burke, Bob 
!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!~ McClure, Andy 



B presents: 
The annual 
-Musical Competition! $300 Grand Prize!!! 
illustrious )udges 
Saturday. March 26 9:00pm Stepan Center 
featuring: Comedian Henry Cho, • The-Tennessee Korean,• 
as master of ceremonies. 
Interested acts contact Maura at 283-2745 
a e 14 The Observer Wednesday, March 23, 198 

Associated Press 
HAINES CITY, Fla. -Bo and baseball. Will he make the choice, or will the Kansas City Royals? 
"It's going to be a very tough decision," Manager John Wat­han said. "We might risk losing him if Bo is sent to the minors. But we have to do what is best for the team." 
More likely, Bo will do what Bo wants to do -just like he does on the football field. 
There are some, and Wathan is among them, who believe Bo Jackson could become the greatest baseball player ever. 
Others, including many who have seen Jackson flail at curves and misplay fly balls, aren't so sure. 
Then there's Bo. He's not saying. Bo -he refers to himself in the third person, as in "Bo can be a funny guy" -is not talking this spring. 
He says he is dedicating him­self to baseball and wants to avoid any distractions. 
Sound familiar? 
"He said he wasn't going to play football and then he did," Wathan said. "They offered him a ton of money and he doesn't come from a wealthy family." 
"Hey, he changed his mind," Wathan said. "We all do that." 
Except that when Jackson turned his attention to a new "hobby," he seemed to turn off baseball. 
Jackson was batting .253 with 18 home runs and 45 RBI in 79 games when Los Angeles Raiders owner Al Davis signed him to a $7.6 million, five-year contract shortly before the All­Star break last year. After that, Jackson hit just .193 with four homers and eight RBI in 37 games. 
"All of a sudden, he seemed to drift," teammate George Brett said. "He had good num­bers in July and he didn't add much to it." 

Bookstore XVII 
The schedule of ev~nts for Sorin Room of LaFortune final preparations for Student Center Bookstore Basketball XVII, Friday which begins Friday: The Hall of Fame Game will 
Tonight kickoff the tournament at 4 Mandatory captain's p.m. at the Bookstore meeting at 6:30 p.m. in the courts, featuring Tim Library Auditorium. Brown, David Rivers and 
Thursday Tony Rice playing on the Meeting for all Bookstore same team against The Dig­Basketball scorekeepers ger Phelps Fan Club and and anyone wishing to be a Five Other Guys. scorekeeper at 7 p.m. in the 

WEDNESDAY 
DOLLAR lMPOQTS STQAWBERRY DACQUIQI 75¢ 
THURSDAY 
75¢, BIG CUP DRAFT SEA BREEZE 75¢ 


FRIDAY LUNCH 
PIZZA-HAMBURGERS-SHRIMP SUBS .. TUNA-TACO SALAD· BEER AND LOTS MORE/ OPIN 12-2 

GO IRISH NOTRE DAME VARSITY LACROSSE 
1988 

HOME GAMES 
..."!~ 
LACROSSE GUIDE
March 
IRISH BEGIN NOTRE OAME SET 
PLAY IN KRAUSE FOR RUN AT NCAA WESTERN PLAYOFF BERTH 
26 (Sat.) Wooster 1:30 p.m. 
STAOlUM m!]~m~~~

27 (Sun.) Windy City 1:30 p.m. 


April 
13 (Wed.) Lake Forest 6:30 p.m. 16 (Sat.) Denison 1:30 p.m. 27 (Wed.) Michigan State 3:30 p.m. 30 (Sat.) Ohio State 1:30 p.m. 

SUPPORT YOUR TEAM!! ALL HOME GAMES IN KRAUSE STADIUM. 

Wednesday, March 23, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
WOODY ALLEN WEEK 
"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex" -but were afraid to ask! Wed & Thurs 8 & 10 pm "A Mid Summer Night Sex Comedy" Fri & Sat 8 & 10 pm 
Sponsored by SUB 
Wednesday 
11:30 a.m.: Department of Economics Labor Workshop, Professor Frank Wil­son, Cambridge University, Room 131 Decio. 
12:10 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Development of the SHARP Microwave Powered Airplant," Professor James DeLaurier, Univer­sity of Toronto, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 
6 p.m.: Sigma Xi Annual Dinner and Lecture, Faculty Conversations on Con­nections: An Historical View of the Development of Science and Technology, South Dining Hall Faculty Dining Room, dinner $15. 
7:30p.m.: Department of Music Concert, Notre Dame Concert Band, JACC. 7:30p.m.: SMC Department of Music Concert, Cassini Trio: Carmelo Galante, Masako Hayashi, and Karen Buranskas, Little Theatre. 8 p.m.: Department of American Studies 1988 Red Smith Lecture in Journalism, Art Buchwald, syndicated columnist and author, Washington Hall. 8 p.m.: Department of Theology Lecture, Professor Dean Hoge, Catholic Uni­versity of America, Library Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Baked Ziti Marinated Sole Grilled Chicken Sandwich Baked Potato Bar 
\le need someone with 
the ronfidenre ofasw;geon,
the dedication or 
amarathoner and the 
rourage o{an explorer. 
We need a Ptkt Corpi volunl«t Call us 11 I·IOQ...4l4-8580. Eu. 9' 
PeaceCorps.
........,..........,. 
Comics 
Bloom County 
l \00\JG-\T 'Nt.'O Bt: 1<11-\Pit--.IG ~~D 1Wt. WOOI)S L\K£ WE ~V.Jf\'{5 1,)(), '\3\J\ II 1\JR~C::, OJT \1~8<5 ~~ S\\ft.RE 
1\-\t.IR ~\TORIES '+J\1\\ 
01\\t.R 1\G86! 

Saint Mary's 
Philly Steak Sandwich Sweet and Sour Pork Vegetable Kabobs Deli Bar 
"llf£8 ABEACH." 
flllfllflu•f/lu/mlll'f\llftlhlllllt1111f'11f•llm"nl/, /01/ fl li'W'Irtlllllllfin'tL\IIJ!IIWII'!..\ /fiiWI mill ~111111 
'of'llll'/11111'/lllu•/f' 1/011 11111jl11 /llfll ll'illt/1111~/ 
t:s=+ 

:::£l \-I£Rt WE AA£, 'SITII~G ~ 0~5\iE S\OCS Ot f:\ 8\G ROC\::. WI-I~T ABlASI. 
I 
ACROSS 1 Breathe hard 5 Card game 
10 Church part 14 Gem 15 Wide-awake 16 Excoriate 17 Optimistic 18 Blockade 19 Lacerate 20 Explosive 21 Road sign 
23 Parrot 25 Part of et al. 28 Candidate for 
graduation 30 Colt 31 Recede 34 Social class 35 Burning 36 Poor grade 37 Fit to ­38 Plant fiber 39 Golf call 40 Grassland 41 Anatomical 
seam 42 TV part 43 Hill dweller 44 Molding 4 --by-night 45 Attractive 5 Clergyman 46 Have 6 Salmagundi 
membership 7 Lawn sign 48 Happy song 8 Work unit 49 Certain 9 Map abbr. 
freshman 10 Following 51 Wander 11 China shop 53 CIA sign 
predecessor 12 Eur. basin 56 Fr. composer 13 Eagle's nest: 57 Liter's cousin var. 59 Luau dance 21 Clog 60 Numerical 22 Soccer great 
prefix 24 Quote 61 Like some 26 Linen gems 27 Bunny 62 Church figure 28 La -,Milan 
03123188
63 Audition 29 Corroded 64 Passageway 32 Basque lid 65 Lean-to 33 Wallace or 42 Prune 54 Plum 
Noah 45 Neb. river 55 Hourglass 
DOWN 35 Colo. resort 47 WWII craft contents 1 Sweet wine 38 Shakespear­49 Conspiracy 57 Sine ­2 Knowledge­ean heavy 50 Alencon e.g. non 
able about 39 Stoke 52 City on the 58 One: pref. 3 Concorde sign 41 Impersonation Oka 59 Possessive 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


1\-\/>.1'5 1'\01 1\\t. 
"~\.f Of \1. IT 
Sl\~5 1\ERt: ~t:R£. 
i\N ENO~~GER£0 
S?'t.CIES! 

-. 

~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 






Sports
;se 16 Wednesday, March 23, 1988 

--------~--------------~~--­
ND tennis teams up·and NO men go 3-2, get win over BC ByGEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team travelled east over break where they won three matches and lost two. The team is now 12-7. 
It was an up-and-down week for Co­ach Bayliss and his squad. The biggest shock of the trip came Sunday when the Irish lost to Penn State 5-4. Bayliss was very disappointed in his team's­play. 
"It was our first road match of the season," said Bayliss, in his first year at Notre Dame, "and we did not adjust well. It was a real close match, one I thought we should have won." 
Brian Kalbas was a bright spot against the Nittany Lions. He defeated Oliver Sebastian in straight sets 6-4, 6-4. Dave Reiter also came through with a three-set win. 
Notre Dame next went to M.I.T. where they won 8-1. The Irish man­handled M.I.T. (Bayliss' old team) by winning every singles match in straight sets. Kalbas again sparkled in beating third team all-American Ron Spellman in three sets. 
On Wednesday the Irish took on Bos­ton College and came away with an im­

down over break Women go west, come back 7-12 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
While many college students were riding the waves and absorbing the sun last week at Daytona Beach or South Padre Island, the Notre Dame women's tennis team was busy working the courts at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas. 
The Irish netters won two of their six matches over spring break, running their record to 7-12 for the year. 
The trip to Vegas got off to a fantastic start when the Irish stormed past Cal St.-Northridge 8-1, garnering their second win in two tries against its west coast opponent. 
Notre Dame swept all six singles matches against Cal St.-Northridge. The Irish also dominated the doubles competition, grabbing two of three matches. Ce Ce Cahill and Michelle Dasso soundly defeated Conn and Kin­caid 6-0, 6-4 at number one, and the team of Natalie Illig and Alice Lohrer beat Izmirian and Yandail 6-2, 7-6 in the number two doubles position. At number three, Jacqueline Uhll and Kim Pacella were outscored by Anderson and Gillis 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. 
Notre Dame had its hands full the 
pressive 5-4 win. Ce Ce Cahill returns a shot earlier this year. The Notre Dame tennis following day, dropping its second The Irish nipped the Eagles by win­teams returned from spring break with very mixed results. Frank match to Colorado this season, 1-5. ning several close matches and Pastor has the women's update and George Travers has the men's Michelle Dasso procured the sole 
action. 
see MEN, page 11 see WOMEN, page 11 
NO women's fencing team finishes second in nation 
By MARTY STRASEN defending national champion to come so close and then fall and sophomore Anne Barreda begins its quest for a national Sports Editor Notre Dame could return with short, but the girls did a great represented the Irish in the title Thursday. another team title. job just to be where they are. two-day team competition. "There's no question about 
The team that has given Yves Their time will come." it, Wayne State had to be a huge Auriol's Notre Dame women's The Irish won a pair of ear­favorite," DeCicco said. fencing squad fits all year did lier matches Tuesday to ad­"They've got a very strong more of the same Tuesday in vance to the final. They team. I thought we were good Princeton, N.J. dumped Harvard 9-3 in the enough to catch them, but we 
Wayne State beat the Irish morning and then edged needed a couple more breaks." for the third time this season Temple on touches 8-8 (65-57). to capture the National Cham­"Overall they (Waynepionship in team competition "Without Janice Hynes (who State) we~e the best team," by a 9-6 score. was declared academically in­Auriol added. "They deserved 
"Losing twice to Wayne State eligible and missed much of the to win. In a team competition,during the regular season, I'm season), we put up a great you expect the best from all happy we finished second in the fight," DeCicco said. "The four four of your athletes. I thought country," Auriol said. "I ,1 girls we went with really we could have fenced better, 
thought we had a chance to win, fenced well, and I can't pos­but we're pleased.but we didn't get very many sibly find fault with them." breaks." "To think we were just a Three-time All-American Sullivan and Barreda com-"We've got some high hopes Irish men's coach Mike couple of touches away," Molly Sullivan, juniors Brenda pete for individual honors in the individual competitionDeCicco said he also thought DeCicco said. "It's a let-down Leiser and Kristin Kralicek today, and the men's team and in the men's." 



It's Bookstore Basketball 
Almost just as quickly as the dorms filled up on Sunday afternoon with students and suitcases,-the basketball courts at Stepan and the Bookstore began to fill up. 
It's back and bigger than ever... Bookstore Bas­ketball XVII. 
Though the thermometer disagrees, the calendar says it's spring and that means that the population of Stepan Courts will most likely exceed tha~ of the library, at least during the month-long, all-campus, all-weather tournament. 
Each night as I glance toward Stepan on my return to Grace Hall it is evident that no hour is too late to be playing basketball on this campus as hoopsters sharpen, or simply pretend to sharpen, their skills as the days wind down to Bookstore's Opening Day. 
The tournament will begin this Friday with the traditional Hall Of Fame game. The contest will feature Irish athletes Tim Brown, David Rivers and Tony Rice on one team, facing a squad called The Digger Phelps Fan Club and Five Other Guys. The game will be played at 4 p.m. on the courts behind the Bookstore. 
Several other games will be played on that day as the preliminary rounds, which last until next Tuesday, narrow the field before the first official rounds begin and all teams see action. 

Brian O'Gara 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The 1988 field is again the largest, with 666 teams, four more than last year. And no "Team No." whatever. Every team name was reviewed on the spot by the Bookstore staff of commissioners, headed by sophomore Mike Manning. Any team whose name passed by this board and was still found offensive by the S.U.B. Steering Committee were then called and asked to submit another name. Only · a couple teams could not be reached for this change. The NCAA runs its own tournament but we here at Notre Dame evidently don't like to play in that one, or at least for too long, so toss aside those 

time again 
'Sweet 16' lists and head out to the courts to either 
play or watch. 
Some of the top teams in this year's tourney fea­ture Notre Dame varsity athletes of the present and the past. Suiting up for the Adworks All-Stars team will be Irish center Gary Voce and football linebacker Cedric Figaro, along with John 'Booger' Buscher, recipient of last year's Mr. Bookstore award for the outstanding player of the tournament . 
Lou's 2 QB's and 2 Blind Guys will be led by obviously, Lou Holtz' quarterback duo, Tony Ric~ and Kent Graham. 
Half the fun of Bookstore is creating a team name and hearing all the others. And again this year, despite the quasi-censoring, Bookstore features some dandy names. Here are a few of the early favorites: 
Career and Placement Rejects From Hell; No, Guts, No Glory, No Defense; A Moccasin, Dan Jan­sen and Three Other Slippers; Five Guys Who Go To The Hole With Authority; 4 Reasons Why Playboy Voted Us No.2 and The Reason We're Not No.1; 5 Guys With A Suburban White Pump Fake; and Floor Laimbeer. 




