Snow job 
Windy today, 50 percent chance of snow showers. Cloudy, high in the mid 20s. Partly sunny Tuesday, high in 
IACCENT: The Isis Gallery 
IVIEWPOINT: SSP endorsement the upper 20s to low 30s. 



VOL XXI, NO. 90 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and S~int Mary's 


SBP candidates outline goals 
By BRADLEY GALKO to her platform's promise to Staff Reporter strive for cable television in Notre Dame's dormitory
Nine candidates tried to dis­rooms. tinguish themselves from their opponents Sunday night at the debate between the candidates for student body president in the Hesburgh Library 
auditorium. Matt Micros was next to 
Each candidate was given speak. Micros said that his two and one half minutes for ticket was taking a more an opening statement. This was lighthearted approach to stu­followed by four questions: two dent government and pointed from WVFI news director Lyn­out his use of humor in cam­sey Strand and two from The paigning. "We're the guys Observer Editor-in-Chief doing handstands in front of the Kevin Becker and Chris library," he said of himself and Murphy, editor-in-chief elect. his running mate Pat Sheehan. 
Following those questions, He said that his platform there was a half hour allocated stressed pragmatic ideas for for questions directed to spe­the immediate future. cific candidates from members . Junior Class President Ellen of the audience. This was fol­Nichols said her ticket lowed by closing remarks from represents "leadership with each candidate. action," adding that she and 
The first candidate to speak her running mate have a "fresh was Michael Keegan. Keegan perspective, but (also) knowl­The Observer I Don Pan stated that his campaign is edge from experience." She, based on the premise that stu­like Keegan, endorses a "Stu­
Candidates for student body president debate one night. The elections for student government offices 
dent government should take dent Forum" to keep the chan­
another in the Hesburgh Library auditorium Sunday are being held Tuesday. Story at right. 
"an active role of finding out nels of communication be­
the ideas of students." He tween student government and criticized the current adminis­the students open. "Students tration's "passive approach" would know if things were
Pravda proposes open voting 
to receiving student input and being done," she added. Associated Press proval, they will appear at the cussed the possibilities of promised that, if elected, he Steve Viz stated that his 19th All-Union Party Confer­giving party members a choice would establish a "Student In­ticket shows "experience and 
MOSCOW Communist ence, a rare gathering of the in voting for top party officials. put Council" to actively seek diversity," stressing his two Party activists proposed in an nation's Communists to be held He also criticized the system out students' ideas and years of experience in Student article on the front page of June 28 in Moscow, that allows bureaucrats to opinions. Senate. "Our big goal," he 
Pravda on Sunday that more Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­remain in party posts for life Candidate Mary Berger said, "is to accomplish little than one candidate be put for­bachev has said electoral while performing little work. spoke next. She stressed her goals --the stuff that really ward for top party posts and reform will be a key topic at He talked about broadening the ticket's experience and diver­touches students' lives." He that all party members be al­the conference. He has talked nomination procedure for gov­sity, explaining that she and reminded the audience that it lowed to vote. about many of the same sug­ernment elections. her running mate are from two was he who led the campaign 
The suggestions, appearing gestions printed in Pravda, Some of the suggestions have different classes, two different that eventually got crunchy in the party's main newspaper, beginning at a plenary meeting been adopted experimentally. areas of campus, and two dif­peanut butter in the dining came from party activists in of the party's Central Commit­Last June, "multiple-candidate ferent organizations in student halls. He repeatedly was called the Ukraine. tee in January 1986. elections" for local party posts government --Student Senate upon by his opponents and 
Although the proposals do not At that session, he raised the and Student Cabinet. members of the audience to an-have the party's formal ap-issue of secret ballots and dis-see REFORMS, page 4 Repeated references were 



New ND research center receives $250,000 grant 
Special to The Observer multaneously at the Center. 
"The Center's work will 

The University of Notre have a positive impact on a Dame has received a most serious worldwide $250,000 grant from the W. problem," said University 
M. Keck Foundation of Los President Father Edward Angeles to purchase equip­Malloy. "I applaud the W. ment for the University's M. Keck Foundation for its new Center for Bioengineer­tangible expression of confi­ing and Pollution Control. dence in Notre Dame's ef­
The Center was created to forts to develop viable meth­encourage interdisciplinary pds for pollution control." research in pollution control The Center will conduct and to provide educational basic research in the areas opportunities for interested of rnu nicipal and industrial students at both the under­treatment, hazardous ma­graduate and graduate terials destruction, decon­levels. Faculty from the De­tamination of leachates and partments of Civil Enginee­soils, and mathematical ring, Biological Sciences and Chemistry will work si-see GRANT, page 6 made by her and her opponents see DEBATE, page 5 


Talks show improved relations 
Associated Press coming Reagan to Mazatlan De Ia Madrid has been a tem­Saturday. pering influence among Latin 
MAZATLAN, Mexico -The The two chief executives, ac­American leaders under meeting between President companied by high-ranking of­domestic pressure to declare Reagan and President Miguel ficials of their administrations, moratoriums on their enor­de Ia Madrid showed that met for four hours Saturday to mous foreign debts, much of despite differences on foreign discuss issues of common con­which is owed to American policy, trade and narcotics cern, including trade, nar­banks. trafficking, U.S.-Mexican rela­cotics trafficking and Central tions are improving. American policy. In turn, the U.S. government 
It was the last officially has been instrumental in get­
The new atmosphere is be­scheduled meeting between the ting u.s. banks to agree to cause of, in large part, what two presidents. De Ia Madrid refinance portions of Mexico's one U.S. official called the "ex­ends his six-year term on Nov. enormous foreign debt of $105 cellent personal working rela­30, and Reagan leaves his post billion, and to lend this country tionship" between the two in January. the money it badly needs for leaders, who have met six development. times over the past five years. Unlike some of his predeces­Mexico has drawn praise 
"On the basis of personal sors, de la Madrid has avoided from the United States for friendship we have open confrontations with the drastically lowering its trade reviewed matters of interest U.S. government over foreign barriers, and the United States . . . overcoming delicate mat­policy. Instead, he tends to ters," de Ia Madrid said in wei-stress the positive. see MEXICO, page 4 
~-----------------------------------------------. 
page 2 The Observer Monday, February 15, 1988 
In Brief -\. ~-.. · 
Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware was listed in satisfactory condition Sunday after undergoing surgery to correct a burst aneurysm in an artery supplying blood to his brain. Eiden, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Com­mittee and a former Democratic presidential contender, had been listed as "seriously ill" following eight hours of surgery Friday. The senator last June announced he was a candidate for president, but withdrew from the race in September following disclosures that he had borrowed, without attribution, the campaign rhetoric of a British politician and had exaggerated his academic accomplish­ments. -Associated Press 
. ·.


Of Interest ~ · .... ~~­
Ballroom Dance Club meets tonight in the Stepan 
Center at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The Institute for International Peace Studies brown bag lunch will host Father Robert Pelton, director of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, discussing "The Role of Central American and U.S. Bishops in the Peace Process" in Room 105 of the Law School from noon to 1 p.m. today. -The Observer 
Any engineering student interested in the summer London program should see Professor Jerger or Professor Lucey of the Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering De­partment. A few spots are open. -The Observer 
The Investment Club will meet today at 7 p.m. in Room 124 Hayes-Healy Center. -The Observer 
Career Decision Making Workshop will be held tonight for undeclaredtmdecided sophomores at the Uni­versity Couseling Center from 6:30 to 8 in Room 300. -The Observer 
Applications are available now in the Office of Student Residences for the positions of Summer Hall Manager andlor Assistant Manager. They may be picked up in Room 311 in the Administration Building. The dead­line for return of applications is March 14. -The Observer 
Holy Cross Associates will hold an informational meeting for any student interested in their one year volun­teer program. The meeting will be tonight at the Center for Social Concerns from 7 to 8:30. Interested students will be able to talk to former associates and view a slide show. 
-The Observer 
TheJugglerArtand~iterary ~agazin~isnow accep_ting submissions for the Sprmg 1988 Issue. Brmg art or written work to the English office, third floor of O'Shaughnessy, by March 1, 1988. -The Observer 
Information on taxation of scholarships will be provided to undergraduates tonight from 7:30 to 8:30 in the Foster Room on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. Students who have scholarships or grants which pay for more than tuition, fees, boo~s and supplies ar~ required to report this amount on therr tax return. Addi­tional meetings will be held Tuesday from 3 to 4:30p.m., Wednesday from 10:30 to 11:30 p.m., Thursday from 9:30 to 10:30 p.m., and next Wednesday from 11:30 p.m. to 1 
a.m. -The Observer 

Tickets· are available for Fashion Savvy, the annual fashion show, in the Ticket Stub in the basement of LaFor­tune Student Center. The show will be Saturday, Feb. 20 at 8 p.m. in the Century Center. The show features clothing from Denderah's and Brooks Brothers. Proceeds from the show go to charity. -The Observer 
The Alumni Speakers Seriesat Saint Mary's will sponsor a talk by Judy Borelli tonight at 6:30 in the Stapel­ton Lounge at SMC. A reception will follow. 

Design Editor ........... Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... John Blasi Design Assistant ....... Annette Rowland Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck Typesetters... . ............... Micheal Buc Accent Layout.. ........... Katy Kronenberg .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .... .. ............ .... Mark Ridgeway Typists................................ Jenn Conlon News Editor....................... Cathy Stacy ND Day Editor ......... Beth Cornwell Copy Editor .. . .. Tim O'Keefe Photographer ...................... Donald Pan Sports Copy Editors ....... Rick Rietbrock .. .. .. .... .. .. ... .. .. .. .. . . . .. .. .. .. ... .. .. . Greg Guffey 
Tille Obeen>er (USPS S99 24000) is published Monday tluouah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tille Obeerver is published by the students of !he Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purcha.s~ ed for $<40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Tille Obeen>er, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tille Obeen>er is a member of Tille Aaodaled Press. All reproduction ri&h!S are reserved. 


Get the scoop on campus candidates 
As everyone who has entered a dorm bath­room knows, campaigns have been heating up lately for the next campus presidential election. 
The suspense as to who will win is probably killing everyone. Yet everyone pays so much attention to the national contest that we actually hear more about Iowa these days than Califor­nia. By contrast, no one seems to have bothered to inform the campus about the odds for the much more imminent Notre Dame student body election. 
To put an end to this terrible state of affairs, I will now give my preview of what to expect this week, based on extensive research con­ducted in the Flanner Hall lavatories. 
I have to admit this year's election doesn't look easy, but at least it doesn't look nearly as confused as the national presidential contest. In that election, after all, the apparent leader of the Democrats dyes his eyebrows, and the best bet among Republicans has the same name as a pineapple. By contrast, the outcome of our campus election looks much more obvious. Let me start with the candidates who have come up with by far the most eloquent campaign slogan. I refer, of course, to the burning issue Ellen Nichols and David Lese have raised on posters throughout campus, asking "Have you ever ... ? " For which their conclusion is, "So have we." 
Who do they think they're fooling? Could the double entendre be more blatant? Despite the lack of subtlety, on just this basis, I would say they'd be shoe-ins. 
Mter all, this is the year 132 A.F. (Mter Freud), and getting something sexual into what you have to say has the same effect today as getting something about God into it in the Middle Ages. 
Unfortunately for Nichols and Lese, however, they've failed to realize one thing: 52 percent of the students on this campus haven't. 
By contrast, Steve Viz and Chris Boron come across as the height of respectability in their posters, and Chris looks pretty cute besides. Unfortunately, Steve alienated half the campus last year when he proposed to keep the vile South Quadders out of the North Dining Hall. I don't know what you'd call this --quadism? -­but this is sure to draw numerous outcries against campus apartheid. 
Then there's Bill Pelino and Dana Togden ticket, whose motto is "We speak your lan­guage!!" Yes, you guessed it: another in­sidious, thinly veiled campaign against foreign exchange students. 
On the other side we have the radically middle of the road Doyle and Paese, whose platform is about as original as a T.J. Hooker episode. Name one candidate, for instance, who opposes "continued and expanded service to students." 
Still, they take a much tougher stand than Rado and Hines, whose sole slogan, as far as I could tell, is, "Please take the time to read our posters and our mailers ..." It doesn't seem to have occurred to them that this presupposes their posters are already being read. 


Equally uncommitted seem to be Keegan and Dodd. In the posters I saw, both are pointing in different directions to unseen people off­camera (the other candidates?) and Dodd has an unmistakable "don't look at me" expression. Assertiveness is obviously not the major appeal of this ticket. 
But then Berger and Carrigan go much fur­ther than to point to the other candidates, saying you have to "be a nut" to elect them. The basis of this slogan seems to be a Doonesbury strip. This is reason enough to vote against them. 
Not to be outdone in the "nut" category, however, there are Matt Micros and Pat Sheehan in their posters doing headstands before the Hesburgh Library. 
I don't know what exactly this is supposed to prove, since hands extending from off-camera are propping them up. Perhaps this stunt has a limited appeal--for Dillon residents, for ex­ample --but I don't think the student body at large will stand for it. 
Finally, we have Christopher Jones and Joe Shank--"C.J. and Chachi." Imagine what your non-Domer friends will think when you tell them your chief student body officers are "C.J. and Chachi." The only thing we'd lack then is Joanie. 
Now that I've made myself the person most likely to be purged this April, you may be won­dering who's left that I could predict as winning the election. 
My choice, I think, is the obvious one. 
I foresee Mikhail Gorbachev forcing a tie, but in the end Spuds MacKenzie will take it all in the runoff. 


STUDENT/YOUTH FARE. EACH WAY BASED ON ROUND TRIP FROM CHICAGO. CALL FOR FREE STU­DENT TRAVEL CATALOG. 100'S OF OTHER DESTINATIONS AVAILABLE TO BUDGET TRAVELERS . 

ouncil Trave 
29 E. Delaware • Chicago, IL I 
'---(312) 9~1-0585 

~CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY~ Program for Lent 
Badin Hall Chapel on Tuesday nights at 8:00 p.m. Five one-hour sessions during the season of Lent. 
Father AI D'Alonz, CSC, Director 
Register and Orientation on Tuesday, Feb. 16 at 8:00 p.m.. 
----~-----------------­
Monday, February 15, 1988 The Observer page 3 


Hiler reviews GOP, supports Kemp 
By LIZ PANZICA Hiler said that Pat Copy Editor Robertson's candidacy brought in a large block of votes, which 
Congressman John Hiler is good for the party. But, Hiler spoke about the upcoming said, "were he to get the presidental elections, the Re­nomination, it would be a very publican party, and his own po­tough election in '88" because litical experiences in a lecture of some of the statements in the Hesburgh Library Robertson has made on his tele­Lounge Saturday afternoon. vision show. 
Hiler, a Representive of In­Despite the personal attacks diana's Third District, said he used in some Republican cam­was optimistic about the Re­paigns, Hiler stated his firm publican party's candidates for belief that Republican candi­1988. dates were by far more "I believe the American qualified than their Demo­people, the people of Indiana cratic opponents. He saaid, and the people of this commu­"Richard Gephardt in the last nity appreciate the fact that the four years has changed his po­Republican party has gone a sition on every major issue."
The Observer I Don Pan 

long way towards alleviating Hiler called special attention to
Indiana's 3rd District Congressional Representative, and his own recent reelection campiagn. Story at 
some of the major problems Gephardt's change from pro­
John Hiler, speaks at the Hesburgh Library Lounge. right. 
that faced this country when life to pro-choice on the isssue 
He discussed his opinions on the presidential race 
the country turned to the Re­of abortion. publican party in 1980 and Paul Simon, according to elected Ronald Reagan,"said Hiler, is a "nice man" but "just

Accusations fly in GOP debate 
Hiler. dead wrong on the issues." And Associated Press Rep. Jack Kemp of New York the Republican message that "The strong leadership that Dukakis' Massachusetts gave a preview of his approach, we are the low-tax party." Reagan has been able to show miracle would not have oc­
CONCORD, N.H. -Republi­charging that Robertson says Dole denied Kemp's charge has helped to base the Repub­curred without the help of can candidate Pat Robertson "off-the-wall things" and that and also took shots at the vice lican party," he said. Reagan's strong economy, he called Sunday for phasing out 
president's leadership as the Hiler expressed some disap­said. Social Security, as Democratic nation's first primary loomed pointment, however, with Re­Hiler said of the Republican front-runner Michael Dukaki~ Tuesday. publican candidates George canidates, "You don't have to became the focus of attacks "I don't think he has made Bush and Robert Dole. look to what they said last week from his rivals in the closing any decisions in the last seven "Those of you who support to figure out where they stand hours of the increasingly bitter Dole is behind a national eco­years," the Kansas senator Senator Dole and those of you on the issues." Hiler praisedcampaign for the New nomic commission that will said of Bush in a CBS news in­who support the vice president, his party's candidates for not Hampshire primary. suggest increasing taxes. terview broadcast Sunday. I wish you would send those changing their positions 
With Republicans Gebrge Dole said he is pleased with gentlemen telegrams asking quickly and standing staunchly 
Bush and Bob Dole running "I am convinced that Senator his progress in New Hampshire them to debate the issues on their ideas on the issues. neck-and-neck, the five GOP Dole has a secret plan to raise --where Bush once had a big rather than debate who's got According to Hiler, the race candidates gathered for an taxes on the American people," lead: "I have come a long way the bigger trust fund and who will not be an easy one. "We hour-long League of Women Kemp said in Bedford, N.H. in the last 30 days." came from better or worse con­will only win if we present a Voters debate. "that would totally frustrate For his part, Bush defended ditions when they were young,'' more forceful and more artic­



Passport Photos 
271-0398 

kinko·s· 
creat copies. Creat people. 
$8.95/2 
18187 State Road 23 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FEBRUARY HIGHLIGHTING SPECIAL $25 WITH ANY CUT 
We're located in LaFortune Center 9 an1 -9 pn1 Monday through Friday 9 an1-4 pn1 Saturdays 
his campaign's ads that say 
he said. ulate presentation of the kinds Dole has "straddled" making Hiler supports Jack Kemp. of things we believe the countrydecisions on several major is­"Jack recognizes the fact that needs," he said. 
sues. 
if the Republican party is to be­Hiler knows a lot about close"The man is running on lead­come the majority party in this races. The Congressman wonership," Bush told reporters in country we are going to have his fourth-term seat last elec­Nashua. "I think it is fair to to widen our support," he said. tion by a mere 47 votes. "Inlook at the results." 
"Jack faces an uphill battle on politics to win by 47 votes isWith less than 48 hours to go Tuesday, and he may not still worse than kissing yourbefore the first votes are cast, 
be in the race on Wednesday sister."
Sen. Paul Simon of Illinois morning. His time will come. Hiler plans to run a more ag­switched to attacking Dukakis, If it is not '88, it will come some­gressive campaign next elec­the clear front-runner in the 
time." tion.
Democratic field. 
"In endorsing Paul Simon for president, the Lawrence 

Libraries' random survey
Eagle-Tribune of Massachu­setts said, 'President Dukakis would head a bureaucracy. 

to review,improveservice
President Simon would head a nation of people,' "the ad said. By MIKE O'CONNELL are meeting students' needs. 
Maureen Gleason, assistant director for Collection Devel­
News Staff 
TWILIGHT RETREAT 

Notre Dame's libraries opment and Coordinator of
lor Women 

recently sent out more than 700 Technical Services, is in
6:30-11 p.m. Feb. 19th, Friday Where? 1104 N. Notre Dame Ave. 
questionnaires to a random charge of the survey. (lour blocks so. of the circle) 
sample of undergraduates, "The survey is part of an ex­graduate students and faculty ternal review of all the aca­to evaluate how the libraries demic departments over the next few years by the Office of 
CALL: Sister Arlene, 288-2665 
•·······················~·:·~~~~~------~.:···• Advanced Studies," said• • Gleason.
•• ? ••
• an outgoing person. • The survey's purpose is to• • find out which parts of the li­
: well organized? : 
brary students are using, and the amount of time they spend
: a motivator? : 
there, she said. The rest of 
• dedicated? • the survey is an evaluation of library services, such as li­
: experienced? :
• • brary instruction, how services 
: interested in Advertising? : 
can be improved, and any other• • improvements.• • Reviewers will make recom­•• •• mendations to the administra­
tion on the areas which require
! Ifyou are, then the Observer ! 
the most attention. "We want to make the libra­

!wants a person like YOU to be the! ries more accesible and en­
• courage students to use them.
•
• • The action we will take depends! ADVERTISING .MANAGER ! on strength the
the of • • responses. We are looking for•• •• strong signals on what needs to• • be improved from all the stu­
: Applications should include a personal : 
dents, not just those who use : statement and a brief resume. : the library all of the time,"
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Gleason said. 

participated, with each student running a mile. The run was held Saturday afternoon in the Loftus Center. 


Reforms 
continued from page 1 

were held in several areas. The government called the system democratization, although all candidates must be approved by the Communist Party, and no other parties can be created. 
In the June experiments, party members in one of every 25 voting districts chose among more than one candidate for local governing councils. Runoff elections had to be held 

Mexico 
continued from page 1 

has responded by opening up the U.S. market to Mexican textiles, leather goods and other products. 
De Ia Madrid has strongly pushed the market-opening moves as a way to help moder­nize the sickly Mexican eco­nomy and pull it out of its lengthy economic crisis. 
A perennial source of irrita­tion had been the U.S. attitude that Mexico was not doing its best in the fight against illegal drug trafficking because of of­ficial corruption. 
But the Mexicans now have practically forced the United States to admit that there is corruption on both sides of the Rio Grande and that the drug fight must be a joint effort. 
Mexico is a large producer of marijuana and heroin for the 
U.S. market and a relay point for South American cocaine. 
Secretary of State George Shultz stressed the importance of the anti-narcotics campaign, saying Colombia was an exam­ple of a situation where drug traffickers can become a pow­erful and disruptive factor in a society. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS 
If you're a Math, Engineering, Physics, or Chemistry major & your GPA is 3.3/4.0 (or better), the Navy would like to give you: 
• 
$1,100 a month until graduation 

• 
Paid graduate-level training 


A Navy Engineering representative will be on campus 
Februo'lry 17 & lC 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information, toll-free: 1-800-221-5932 
NAVY OFFICER. * LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 
Monday, February 15, 1988 

Clever pilot foils hijacking attempt 
Associated Press 

DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania A Tanzania Airways pilot tricked four hijackers into· believing he had flown them to Kenya, then landed his plane at a Tanzanian airport where troops overpowered and ar­rested the young men Sunday. 
Capt. Dominic Ngandile also managed to send a secret distress signal to the Dar es Salaam airport, which turned off its terminal and runway lights, making it look like a small Kenyan airport, aut­horities said. 
Mter landing, the pilot stalled the assailants, telling them they would have to wait until daylight to refuel the plane. Just before dawn army troops stormed the plane and arrested the hijackers. 
The hijackers stabbed Ngan­dile in the neck and hands after they realized they had been tricked. His co-pilot, Christop­her Mnika, suffered cuts on his hands. The injuries were not serious, said airline and secur­ity sources who spoke on con­dition of anonymity. 
Among the 70 passengers on the Saturday night flight were two senior government offi­cials --Home Mfairs Minister Muhidin Kimario and Hamad Rashid Mohamed, deputy min­ister for finance, economic af­fairs and planning. None of the passengers were hurt. 
Officials said the four hijack­ers arrested Sunday made no 
JUNIORS 
JPW 
political statements or claimed any affiliations and that their only demand was to be flown to London. 
The Boeing 737 carried a crew of six on the internal flight between Dares Salaam, the na­tion's capital, and Kiliman­jaro, a northern town near the Kenya border and the site of Mount Kilimanjaro, Mrica's highest mountain. 
Shibata, the government­owned news agency, said the four hijackers were from Zan­zibar, the semi-autonomous In­dian Ocean island nation that with the mainland forms the Republic of Tanzania. It said they were aged between 17 and 20. 
"Mter takeoff, three youths ~tormed into the cockpit and announced that the flight had been hijacked and that they were going to London via Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and Egypt," government-owned Radio Tan­zania reported. 
Ngandile told the hijackers that the plane did not have enough fuel to reach Addis Ababa and suggested he refuel instead at a small airport at Ludwar, Kenya, the sources said. 
The hijackers agreed. 
Instead of heading for Kenya, Ngandile flew the plane in a wide arc and headed back to Dares Salaam. Mter he sent the secret distress signal, air­port officials turned off some airport lights. 
The Boeing 737 landed about 
10:30 p.m. and taxied to the old Dar es Salaam terminal. 

in 59 of the Soviet Union's 52,000 districts because candidates tied. 
Although there has been no firm indication whether the ex­periment will be expanded, continuing articles in the press indicate the idea is still very much alive. The party confer­ence in June could set the stage for making the system per­manent and nationwide. 
Gorbachev has also brought a little democracy to the working place. The Soviet par­liament, known as the Supreme Soviet, last June approved com­petitive elections for managers of state enterprises to make them more accountable. 
In its report on a meeting of Kiev University Communists, Pravda said there would be a diversity of views if more than 
one  candidate  ran  for  party  
first secretary.  
Currently,  only  top  party  

bodies elect the first secretary, and any debate about whom to choose is held behind closed doors. The first secretary is the top party official. The post exists at the city, regional and republic level. 

Tuesday, 16 February 9:oo a.m.-1o:oo p.m. 
Wednesday, 17 February 9:oo a.m.-IO:oo p.m 
You must bring your student ID card and You must register at this time to attend the weekend events. Tickets will be contained in your registration package along with weekend information. 
FRESHMEN
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY DEAN JAMES TAYLOR AND THE DEPARTMENTS OF THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
6:30 P.M. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16,1988 
ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN

·~ ~ 

Monday, February 15, 1988 
The Observer page 5 



South Bend patrol experience shows police officer at work 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Editor's note: Eric Bergamo rode patrol with Captain Patrick Cottrell, East Sector supervisor, Friday night. This is his report. 
A Friday night patrol can get busy at any time, according to Captain Patrick Cottrell. 
"On Friday night it can start jumping right after roll call," Cottrell said. "In fact, a lot of times it can start on day (shift)." 
Fridays in the winter, however, tend to be less hectic because of the cold, he said, adding when the weather is warmer calls increase. 
Because Cottrell is the only captain on duty this Friday evening, he must supervise all three of the city's police sec­tors: East, West and South. 
People may not realize the extent of responsibilities of the police officer, Cottrell said. 
"The police officers in this town are not only are respon­sible for the citizens that live here ... but we're responsible for all the people that work here and students that live here ... (plus) people that are visit­ing ..." Cottrell said. 
On a normal night there are six to seven patrol officers covering the East Sector, Cot­trell said, adding that one or two officers from the Fifth Detail, a special unit that works from 6:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m., may also patrol the sec­tor. 
The East Sector alone covers a large area of South Bend, Cot­trell explained. Chapin Street and Portage Avenue form the western boundary. The nor­thern boundary runs along An­gela Boulevard and State Route 23, then twists over to Hickory Road to form the eas­tern boundary of the sector. The St. Joseph River and Sample Street is the southern edge. 
The residents of the East Sec­tor cover the ec;onomic spec­trum, Cottrell noted, from the poor sections of the Northeast · Neighborhood to the wealthy residents of Jefferson Boulevarrl 
The Northeast Neighborhood is one of the areas in the East Sector that has a large crime problem, he said. The 300 block of Chapin Street, called "The Block," also has a high rate of crime, he noted. 
But there are other areas in the city that have problems with crime, Cottrell said. 
The 1200 block of West Wash­ington Ave., lined with boarded-up buildings and run­down bars, is referred to as "The Shooting Gallery" for the high number of shootings there in the past year, he explained. 
The Southeast Neighborhood is also a big problem. South Michigan A venue between Broadway and Bronson, where bars such as Ramona's Car Wash and the Ace-Hi Lounge are located, is where South Bend's prostitutes ply their trade, Cottrell said. 
Even the downtown area is not immune from crime, suf­fering from a high number of car break-ins and purses stolen from buildings, he said. 
There were not many calls this night. Cottrell responded to a call on a suspect wanted for a failure to appear warrant on Lincolnway West. He gave a ride to two teenagers hitchhik­ing along North Side Boulevard and was on the scene of a car in a ditch on Sussex Avenue. Cottrell pulled over a car that ran a red light on South Mic­higan. 
During a brief stop at the East Sector substation, a call came in of a "man with a shot­gun" at 427 West LaSalle Ave. When Cottrell arrived, five cruisers were already on the scene. Cottrell got out and con­Cered with the officers on the scene. Soon two men, hand­cuffed, were led from the house to waiting cruisers and driven off. 
Cottrell came back to the car. "Family dispute," he said. No shotgun was found at the scene. 
The two men had been taken in because they were believed to be wanted on warrants, though one would later be released since the warrant on him did not exist. 
A family dispute is "the worst call you can get," Cot­trell noted. 
"Whenever you're dealing with a family fight, you're dealing with so much emotion on the part of the people in­volved," he said. 
As for students, all police ask is they "obey the law," Cottrell said. 
"As long as they obey the law, there aren't going to be any problems," he added. 
Students can have parties, Cottrell said, but "when you have a blowout, then you're not having a party." 
Students also don't under­stand how much work, or luck, it takes to catch a burglar, Cot­trell said. 
"There could be somebody breaking into that house right there; how would we know it," he said, "unless we seen them smashing the door down or smashing a window in?" 
Burglars also have someone looking out for them and spend little time in the house, he said, adding that burglars are usually caught when a neigh­bor calls in about a break-in. 
Ifstudents had good relations with their neighbors, bur­glaries could be cut down, he said. 
Much of the crime in South Bend can be linked to drugs, Cottrell said. 
"People break in to get the VCRs and TVs to sell to buy the drugs. A lot of crime in town revolves around the drugs," Cottrell said. 
Drug activity is spread out throughout the city among "the rich and the poor and the 
J-council learns police do more than raid parties 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Six members of the Notre Dame Judicial Council went on patrol with South Bend police officers Friday night in an effort to improve rela­tions between students and police. 
"We wanted to make con­tact with the man on the beat in a non-confrontational set­ting," said Judicial Coordin­tor Brendan Judge. Judge said the experience "was a real eye-opener. The gravity of crime in the city is much greater than I thought." 
Judge said he felt the pro­gram was successful in im­proving relations. 
"All the people who rode seemed very impressed with who they rode with, and the officers were receptive to them," he noted. 
Dillon representative Paul Irving rode with Sgt. Chuck Eakins and found him to be "very cooperative." 
"He answered a lot of my questions. He was very upfront with me and didn't hold anything back," Irving noted. 
Eakins told Irving that most officers don't try to make trouble for students while breaking up parties, thought there are some poor attitudes towards students by some officers. 
Eakins also told Irving that "they (the police) don't enjoy breaking up parties." 
There are more pressing incidents for police to check than breaking up parties, Farley representative Rebecca Seidel said. 
"One of the definite things we found out was that they 
have much better things to 
do than break up Notre 
Dame parties," Seidel said. 
"They've got so much else 
to do that they really don't 
go over to break up a party 
unless they have to, unless 
they've gotten a number of 
complaints from neigh­
bors," she added. 
"When an officer goes to 
an off-campus party he has 
no choice ... he's respond­
ing to a complaint, and he 
has a job to do," Judge said. 
The officer Judge rode with stressted the inital con­tact between the student and police. 
"If a student approaches the scene with a cooperative attitude, then the officer's attitude will be more under­standing," Judge said. "But if someone objects he's (the officer) put with his back against the wall because he has to follow orders. He has to protect the rights of others." 
Seidel said her impression of the police improved. 
"I got a lot more respect for them ... I didn't realize the kind of responsibilities they had and just how many things they really have to deal with," she said. 
The program was the result of a meeting last month between the Judicial Council, South Bend Police Chief Patrick Hurley, St. Joseph County Sheriff Joseph Nagy and University offi­cials, Judge said. 
Also riding with the police were off-campus represen­tative Bill Kaberlein, Keenan Representative Artie Feles and Council As­sistant Chairman Scott Swick. 

on "maintaining and enhanc­ing" student services that "im­mediately and visibly enhance daily living." He called these qualified as opposing tickets. 
his  ticket's  combined  seven  
years of experience  as  Notre  
Dame  students  made  it  as  

He said he was entering the realm of student government with a "sense of urgency" to "cut through the BS ... (and) red tape." However, he added that he would give careful con­sideration to all relevant is­sues. 
Chris Rado spoke after Johnson, and he emphasized the precision and feasibility of his goals. Among these are road trips to other universities, alleviating lunch lines, install­ing lockers in the dining halls, and an off-campus house­sitting program. 
Bill Pelino was the last of the candidates to give opening remarks. He said his primary interest was to increase spirit at Notre Dame. He proposed an event each weekend to give people a reason to stay on campus. He added that he wanted to "end the eliteness of Student Government," so that students could feel comfortable about calling student govern­ment officials. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
llw 1\',,r.ls \\T h\'t' l;•c 
·------· 

page 6 The Observer Monday, February 15, 1988 



Security Beat 
Thursday, Feb. 11 
12:35 p.m.-An Off-Campus student reponed the theft of his bookbag and contents from the South Dining Hall sometime between 12 noon and 12:30 p.m. His loss is estimated at $80. 
4:41 p.m.-A Notre Dame employee reponed the theft of his wallet and contents from his jeep that was parked in the South Dining Hall lot sometime around 7 a.m. His loss is $300. 
6 p.m.-A Pasquerilla East resident reponed the loss of a hean-shaped pendant while she was running on the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse track. 
9:35 p.m.-A Building Services employee reported the theft of a vacuum cleaner from Cushing Hall. 

Friday, Feb. 12 
8:55 a.m.· A Lewis Hall resident reponed the theft of her 35mm camera from her unlocked room sometime between 8:15 and 9 p.m. on Feb. II. Her loss is estimated at $90. 
3: 15 p.m.-A Notre Dame employee reponed that someone had siphoned about I 0 gallons of gasoline from her car that was parked in the Stepan Lot sometime between 6:15a.m. and 12 noon. 

Grant 
continued from page 1 

modeling and computer simulation of contaminated surface and groundwater sys­tems. 
Robert Irvine, professor of civil engineering, will direct the Center. 
The Keck Foundation was es­tablished in 1954 by W. M. Keck, the son of a Pennsylva­nia oil worker and the founder of the Superior Oil Co. of Cali­fornia. Until his death in 1984, Keck was actively involved in the company, which became one of the largest independent oil and gas producing compan­ies in the world. 
One of the nation's largest foundations in annual grants, the W. M. Keck Foundation's primary focus is funding grants to outstanding univer­sities and colleges throughout the United States, with partic­ular emphasis in the fields of science, engineering and medi­cal research. 
Other faculty participating in the Center for Bioengineer­ing and Pollution Control in­clude: Victor Bierman, associ­ate professor of civil engineering, with research in water quality modeling; Mal­colm Fraser, assistant profes­sor of biological sciences, ge­netic engineering; William Gray, chairman and professor of civil engineering, porous media physics and groundwater modelling; Lloyd Ketchum, associate professor of civil engineering, physico­chemical and anaerobic treat­ment; and Ingemar Per Erland Kinnmark, assistant professor of civil engineering, simulation of groundwater contamination. 
Also participating are David 
Kirkner, associate professor of 
civil engineering, multicom­
ponent transport and precipita­
tion reactions; Charles Kupla, 
associate professor of biologi­
cal sciences, mixed cultures 
for biological treatment; 
Thomas Nowak, professor of 
chemistry, enzymology; An­
thony Serianni, assistant pro­
fessor of chemistry, biochemi­
cal reaction mechanisms; and 
Stephan Silliman, assistant 
professor of civil engineering, 
field methods in groundwater 
hydrology. 

4:40p.m.-A South Bend resident reponed that someone had broken the electric antenna on her car that was parked in the BI lot sometime between 4:30 and 6 p.m. on Feb. 9. Damage is estimated at $1 00. 
Saturday, Feb. 13 

3:35 p.m.-Eight keys mounted on a brown leather key holder were found in the Notre Dame Post Office and turned into Security. 
3:45 p.m.-A resident of Pangborn Hall reponed the theft of his leather jacket from his unlocked room sometime between II p.m. on Feb. 12, and 2 a.m. on Feb. 13. His loss is estimated at $225. 
7:19 p.m.-The Notre Dame Fire Dept. extinguished a fire in the trash chutes of Stanford Hall. There were 
no injuries, and damage was minimal. 
Sunday, Feb. 14 

10:15 a.m.-Security investigated a minor two car accident at the rear of the JACC. Damage was minimal, and there were no injuries. 
I :21 p.m.-A Lyons hall resident reponed the theft of her bookbag and contents from her car that was parked in the D6 lot sometime between 
10:57 a.m. and I :20 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $50. 
''Mom says the house just istit the same without me, even though its 
alot cleaner.'' 

just because your Mom is far away, doesn't mean you can't be close. You can still share the love and laughter on AT&T Long Distance Service. 
It costs less than you think to hear that she likes the peace and quiet, but she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a call. You can clean your room later. Reach out and touch someone~ 


ATs.T 

The right choice. 


Lead singer Leroy Mcintosh fronts The Groove, just one of many bands which took part in the Black Cultural Arts Festival Talent Show. The Talent Show was held in the Hesburgh Library auditorium Saturday night. 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~-------------­
Viewpoint 
Doyle-Paese ticket deserves support 
This year no student body presidential ticket definitively stands above the rest. Of the nine, however, the ticket of Tom Doyle and Mike Paese is the best suited for the offices of student body president and vice president. 
Although their ideas are not different from those of their opponents, or those of years past, Doyle and Paese bring the freshest attitude and approach toward achieving their goals. 
Doyle's experience as Grace Hall president gives him a dif­ferent perspective of student government than the other eight candidates. He has stayed out of the bureaucracy that some candidates have been caught in. 
Others may have more student government experience, but their approaches are stale and have proven to be ineffective. 
Doyle's enthusiasm, sincerity and composure are his greatest assets. These attributes make him the most qualified for a position which entails communicating to students as well as administrators. 
During the campaigning process, year after year students are promised cable television, co-educational dormitories, or laundry machines in male dorms. These promises, however, are not fulfilled and often forgotten. 
Doyle's sincerity is convincing in that he'll seek out student needs and not forget them if elected. While Doyle may not accomplish all his goals, his enthusiasm indicates that he will at least follow up on his promises. 
Doyle said he'd like to replace what he calls "apathy" with a spark that starts from the office of student body president. His enthusiasm would make that possible. 
During Sunday's presidential debate, Doyle displayed com­posure in presenting his platform and answering questions. That confidence should enable him to deal effectively with both student demands and administrative red tape. 
Students look to student government to get things done. They deserve someone who has a creative approach to meeting stu­dent needs. Doyle is that someone. 
Make him your choice on Tuesday. 
-The Observer 

P.O. Box Q 
Abortion issue warrants analysis 
Dear Editor: 

Mr. Gundersen stated in his Feb. 5 letter that "incomplete analysis (of the abortion issue) must be avoided." I heartily agree, and think that he sorely needs to heed his own advice. 
Mr. Gundersen referred to a Right to Life "sexist attitude." Apparently he has never heard of Feminists for Life, Concerned Women of America, the Eagle Forum, WEBA (Women Ex­ploited by Abortion) or any of the many other women's pro-life groups. Neither did he mention Birthright, Maternity Homes, Rachel post-abortion help groups nor the multitude of problem and crisis pregnancy centers, including South Bend's two Women's Care Centers. Indeed, the Right to Life movement is very much for the right of all women, including those little wo­men in the womb. Pro-lifers simply do not believe that a woman has the right to destroy the body and end the life of an innocent human being. 
Mr. Gundersen would disagree here, for he referred to fetuses as "potential human beings" rather than "human beings." Come now, Mr. Gundersen, even the pro-abortionists recognize that the fetus is a human being. I quote from the Senate report, 97th Congress, S-158: "Physicians, biologists, and other scientists agree that conception marks the beginning of the life of a human being -a being that is alive and is a member of the human species. There is overwhelming agreement on this point in countless medical, biological, and scientific writings." The Supreme Court declared however that the unborn human being is not a "person" -in the same way that it declared in the 1857 Dred Scott case that blacks, though human beings, were not persons. 
Mr. Hahn, in a Feb. 1 column, states that the millions of abortions today are "an atrocity comparable to the Nazi holocaust." Mr. Gundersen called this assertion "ridiculous." But consider the following three excerpts: 1) "An unborn child likely to present heredi­tary and transmissible defects may be destroyed." 2) "It had nothing to do with humanity -it was a mass. I rarely saw them as individuals. Jt was always a huge mass." 3) "If you are going to kill all these people, at least take the brains out so that the material could be utilized." Quotes from modern day abortionists? They very well could be, but in fact they are the words of the 1933 Hamburg Eugenics Court; Franz Stangle, the commandant of Treblinka; and Nazi doctor Julius Hallervorth. The vocabulary and actions of Nazis and abortionists are strikingly similar. Both involve the "treatment," "removal" and "evacuation" of the "unwanted", the "defective", and the "economically or socially unuseful." Both also involve "experimentation." 
German doctors were killing institu­tionalized handicapped children in 1939. The murder quickly spread to include the learning disabled, the elderly, am­putee World War I veterans and even bed-wetters. In total, 300,000 "defec­tive" Aryans were killed. It was then that an entire race was termed defec­tive, and six million Jews were mur­dered. As was noted in the 1977 Cancer Bulletin (vol. 29, no. 4), "In 1944, a physician in Germany could partici­pate in genocide with legal sanction; in America he would have been a mur­derer. In 1977, an American physician can perform an abortion with legal sanctions; in Germany he would be a murderer. We have come 360 degrees on the moral compass." 
Dr. William Brennan's "The Abor­tion Holocaust" describes in great detail the analogy between the two holocausts. I recommend, in the inter­ests of complete analysis, that Mr. Gun­dersen read it. 
Mary Lee Freeman Walsh Hall February 8, 1988 

Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something in­tellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
50NOF AL&RJTH& &1-PtR, 7H& 
ITIUAS AN UNU51JAL 01/WHOOO.
YOUNG PRJNC& GReUJ UP IN 7H8 5HAOOIJ./ OF 7H& CAPI7Dt [)()M£3. 
C()(}W YOU PASS 
TH£ KETOIU/1 PlEAS£3, 
MR.. 513CR&TAR.Y? 
I 

Quote of the Day 
"The possibility that we may fail in the s t rug g I e ought not deter us from the support of a cause we believe is just." 
Abraham Lincoln 
1809-1865 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief... . ........................... Kevin Becker Business Manager .. ......................... John Oxrider Managing Editor ......................... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager.... .. .. Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor.. .. .. .. ................. .. ..... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ........................... Steve Clark News Editor ..: ........................................... Jim Riley Production Manager....... .. ....... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversity of Viewpoint Editor... .............................Chrit Murphy Projects Manager ........................ Mark Mclaughlin Notre Dame du Lac and Seint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sporrs Editor.... . ................ Dennis Comgan Systems Manager .. .. . .. ....... Shawn Sexton the adminlatratlon of erther instrtutlon. The News ia reported 11 accurately and objlctively as Accent Editor... .. ...... Michael Neughton Controller ....................... ................ Tracy Schindele possible. Unstgned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor.. .. ....... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arls Manager... .................. Laura Stanton Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Editor............... .. .. .. .. .. . . ........... Jim Carroll IS available to all members of the school community. and the free expression of verying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1918 
---~------~ ---~ ------~-----------­
Accent
page 8 Monday, February 15, 1988 
Isis Gallery shows students 'what's happening in art' 
THERESA LOOMIS accent writer 

C
ontrary to the belief of some non-art majors, the Snite Museum is not the only art gallery on campus. Located on the third noor of the Riley Hall of Art and Design, the Isis Gallery of­fers a wide range of ex­hibits. 
It is said that the Egyptian goddess Isis, after whom the gallery is named, often (J changed her appearance but continued to be venerated in her new forms. The same can be said of the Isis Gallery itself. 
During 1970 a group of students established the gallery in a locker room of the Old Fieldhouse. They initially displayed their own work but later began includ­ing the work of faculty mem­bers. Gradually, the faculty took over management, lending a more professional atmosphere. 
The Isis Gallery moved to its present location in the spring of 1983. It is now operated by faculty advisor Richard Gray, assistant pro­fessor in Notre Dame's art department and students enrolled in the gallery man­agement class. The class is limited to five students and, 
although it is open to stu­dents in all majors, priority is given to junior and senior art majors. 
Amy Taschler, a junior art major who is taking the class for a second semester, believes the presence of stu­dents from other concentra­tions is a definite benefit. "Everyone has seen a museum and has different ideas on how to approach an exhibition. They (non-art majors) contribute a lot of fresh ideas," she said. 
Taschler stressed that Gray is an advisor only-­students take charge. It is a "hands-on class." As Gray said, "The idea behind the class is contact with the ar­tists and their art. It is an experiencial class in gallery management." 
The students work as a group on the first show so that everyone gets a general idea of each task. After that, however, they rotate duties with each exhibit. 
Major responsibilities in­clude publicity, graphics, gallery preparation, and opening night arrange­ments. Work on the last ex­hibit of the semester counts as a final for the class, and students manage the entire show from start to finish. 

1988 Catholic Faith Series 
Time: ?-8:30pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Sundays Tuesdays 
Church ----------Feb. 16 Sr. Regina Coli, C.S.J., Theology Dept., UNO 
Scripture Feb.21 Feb.23 Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Office of Student Affairs, UNO 
Sacraments Feb. 28 Mar. 1 Fr. Robert Kennedy, Doctoral Candidate/liturgy,UND Morality Mar. 6 Mar. 8 Fr. Drew Christiansen, S.J.,Theology Dept, UNO 
The students also choose 
the series of shows for the 
following semester. They 
discuss ideas submitted by 
faculty members as well as 
their own proposals before 
voting. 
Members of the class 
agree that the opportunity to 
work with professionals and 
their art is a great experi­
ence whether one is inter­
ested in gallery management 
or design. "If you're consid­
ering showing art in the fu­
ture, this lets you see the 
reverse side," Taschler said, 
referring to the fact that stu­
dents are involved in every­
thing from hanging and 
lighting to organizing. 
The class also agrees that 
the Isis Gallery has an im­
portant function in both uni­
versity and local communit­
ies. 
Local residents as well as 
students attend opening 
nights and exhibitions. Fac­
ulty member Douglass Kin­
sey, an associate professor 
in the university's art depart­
ment, adds, "It's nice to get 
people involved who aren't 
taking art courses." 
Since the gallery is such a positive presence at the uni­versity, Gray and the stu­dents hope to re-establish a relationship with the Student Union Board. Presently, the Isis Gallery receives all of its funding from the art depart­ment. 
Although student work is still shown (thesis work will be exhibited at the end of the semester), the Isis Gallery tends to focus on new, emerging art from well known beginning artists. Shows cover a broad range of media including drawing, painting, photography, sculpture, ceramics, fibers, industrial design, and envi­ronments. 
As an alternate space for contemporary artists, the Isis distinguishes itself from the Snite Museum which usually displays established or historical art. The Isis Gallery also enjoys more nexibility in scheduling. Ac­cording to Kinsey, "The 


Sophomore Steve Roddy in the Isis Gallery. Snite is so professional it's show and held a workshop. booked years in advance." Through his drawings, pas­
"The Max Drawings," a na-tels, etchings, lithographs tionally recognized series by and sculptures he has artist Sigmund Abeles, will gained widespread critical be making a stop at Notre acclaim. His work is in-Dame en route from Califor-eluded in collections of the nia to Vermont. The Museum of Modern Art, the drawings document the in-Boston Museum of Fine Arts, creasing health of the artist's the Smithsonian Institute infant son Max over a period and the British Museum of of 50 days. Max. who is now Art, among others. Pres-five years old, was born ently, Abeles is an emeritus three months premature and professor at the University of was not expected to live. New Hampshire. Kinsey says, "It's not a pretty subject matter," but The Isis Gallery is open he adds, "It shows the from 8:30a.m. to 5 p.m., struggle to survive. Abeles is Monday through Friday. For the best known artist whose additional information about work we've exhibited this the current exhibition, on year." display through February 26, 
As is the usual procedure or upcoming events, contact for visiting artists, Abeles the Department of Art, Art gave a lecture on the History and Design at 239­February 8 opening of the 7602. 
Catholic education: a 'life-long process' 
HEIDI SCHLUMPF was seen as mostly for also considered the student Students can also hear the speaker. After the talk. accent writer children," McCabe contin-evaluations of last year's professors whose classes McCabe encourages the par­
ued. "Now we're seeing program. they are not able to take. A ticipants to introduce them-you went to Catholic growth in our faith and it's The first speaker, Father senior who attended last selves to two or three other grade school, Catholic seen as a life-long process." John Dunne, C.S.C., profes-week's presentation agrees: people around them and to 
high schooL C.C.D. and con-The Catholic Faith Series sor of theology at Notre "John Dunne is a resource raise any questions they firmation classes and now is one of the educational Dame, spoke on prayer last that the entire student body might have about the you take theology classes at programs that Campus Mini-week. This week Sister should tap." speaker's presentation or the a Catholic university. Why stry offers the Notre Dame Regina Coli, C.S.J., director The lectures are held in topic. should you need more Cath-community. The program of field education in Notre the Keenan-Stanford chapel 
olic education? presents a series of guest Dame's theology depart-from 7:00 to 8:30p.m. on Students can pre-register "I think it's a misnomer speakers who discuss issues ment, will address the topic Sunday and Tuesday at the Camups Ministry of-that everyone at Notre Dame related to the adult faith ex-of the Church. evenings. The speakers give fices in Badin Hall or in the 
is Catholic educated," said perience such as prayer, the The remaining speakers the same talk on both nights · Hesburgh Library. 
Sister Pat McCabe, C.S.C., Church, Scripture, sacra-are Sister Jean Lenz, 0. S. F., so that as many people as director of religious educa-ments and morality. "All are from Notre Dame's Office of possible can take advantage "I would like to challenge tion for Notre Dame's Office topics we felt are basic to Student Affairs, Father of the program. "Lots of students to continue their 
of Campus Ministry. Catholicism," said McCabe. Robert Kennedy, a doctoral people cross-over (to a dif-religious education," said "Besides, religious education In choosing this year's candidate in liturgy, and Fa-ferent night)," said McCabe, McCabe. "There are so many is a life-long process. speakers, McCabe "did a lot ther Drew Christiansen, S.J., "and that's O.K." good opportunities out there 
"For a long time in the of listening to students, associate professor of theol-The format of the program and you've got to keep Church, religious education seeing who they like." She ogy at Notre Dame. allows for interaction with learning." 
~-~-----~------· -----~--­
Business
Monday, February 15, 1988 page 9 
Penny stocks offer the risks and rewards of stock speculation 
By JOHN WHOLIHAN 
Business Writer 
Editor's Note: This is part of a continuing series on invest­ment opportunities available to Notre Dame students. 
"Hey Buddy! Wanna make a quick buck?" 
This is the common percep tion of "penny stocks." They are usually viewed as worth­less stock, issued by a fly by night operation. 
The series today will discuss penny stocks by presenting the risks and rewards of this type of investment. 
The term, penny stock, en­compasses stocks that are sell­ing on the Over the Counter (OTC) market for less than five dollars. 
Some of these companies have grown enough financially to be listed by the National As­sociation of Securities Dealers (NASDAQ). These stocks are listed everyday in the paper, and your regular broker can handle their purchase and sale. 
The majority of penny stocks are not listed, and are traded by what are called market makers. A stock's market making institution is found by looking up the stock on the "pink sheets." Pink sheets are a listing of the non-NASDAQ stocks, and al­though these stocks are OTC, they are known among brokers as "under the counter." 
Penny stocks are also traded on smaller exhanges such as the Vancouver Exchange. An investor wishing to invest in a stock listed on one of these smaller exchanges may have to deal with a broker that spe­cializes in smaller stocks. 
There are numerous penny stocks available to the inves­tor. Many small corporations raise capital by issuing mil­lions of shares of penny stocks. 
Most people invest in a penny stock with the hope that the company will grow and as a result the stock will appreciate in value. 
However, investing in most companies is very risky. This is because the companies have not established earnings, may have inexperienced manage­ment who cannot handle rapid expansion, or lack the neces­sary public recognition. These kinds of penny stocks will be issued, increase in price be­cause of hype, and eventually fall to a few cents a share. 
Wall St. 
at 
ND Ave. 

What should an invenstor look for in a good penny stock? 
There are a few characteris­tics that make certain small companies more favorable in­vestments. The first is an established pattern of earn­ings. This does not guarantee future earnings, but it demonstrates potential. An­other characteristic to look for is whether or not the company has signed any contracts to per­form their service or sell their products. A signed contract translates into future reve­nues. A company that finds a niche in an industry, or one that develops a new technology can also be favorable for invest­ment. 
There are many publications that cover penny stocks. The Penny Stock Journal is to penny stocks what the Wall Street Journal is to New York stocks. Many penny stock newsletters provide the essential informa­tion for finding a broker, routinely follow stocks, and dis­cuss new stock issues. 
The criteria for choosing a 
Trade numbers boost 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stock prices rose Friday in what analysts described as a muted response to news of a smaller U.S. trade deficit. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials climbed 21.72 to 1983.26 by closing on Wall Street. 
Gainers outnumbered losers by more than 9 to 5 in the over­all tally of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 937 up, 556 down and 473 un­changed. 
Before the market opened the Commerce Department re­ported that the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.20 bil­lion in December from $13.22 billion the month before. 
The figure came in at the low end of analysts' estimates, and lent support to the growing belief that the international trade situation was improving. American exports set a record for the second straight month. 
But analysts said traders in the stock and bond markets didn't see the news as purely positive. 
Given the strength it showed in U.S. manufacturing, they said, the chances seemed less that the Federal Reserve might soon relax its credit policy fur­ther. Interest rates rose and prices declined in the credit markets. 
The good trade news was also muted because the annual trade deficit reached an all time low of $145 billion. 
Commerce Secretary William Verity said: "Such a level is unacceptable. We have a long way to go until we can be comfortable." 
Another apparent drag on the markets was the Labor Depar­tment's report that the producer price index of finished goods rose 0.4 percent in January, after falling about the same amount in December. 
This increase is due to a jump in food prices which offset declines in energy prices. Food prices went up 1.7 percent primarily due to insect infesta­tion in California and Arizona. Lettuce skyrocketed 51.6 per­cent while celery went up 44.1 percent. 
penny stockbroker are the 
same as the ones used in choos­
ing a regular broker as dis­
cussed earlier in the series. 
As a client, one must under­
stand that penny stocks areal­
ways speculative. These in­
vestments in most cases are 
short-term. The broker will 
usually encourage a client to 
purchase several hundred or 
thousand shares of stock. Many 
investors like the fact that for 
a few hundred dollars, they can 
own thousands of shares of a 
potentially valuable stock. 
There are a few recommen­
ded guidelines that may differ 
from those used in trading reg­
ular stocks that successful 
penny stock investors should 
follow. 
If the price of a penny stock doubles, sell half to cover the cost of investment. Before in­vesting, set an upper limit. That is, determine a price at which you will sell everything if the stock price rises. Also, before investing, set a lower limit. A fifty percent loss limit is one way to cut losses without losing everything. Take all the hype with a grain of salt. Al­ways read the prospectus of a company's new issue before in­vesting. 
As stated before, penny stocks are issued by companies in any industry. An example of a non-NASDAQ issue is AT&I, Inc. It recently sold for 45 cents a share, and deals in micro­wave television transmission. An up and coming NASDAQ issue is Video Jukebox Net­work, Inc. Video Jukebox was recently selling for two dollars a share. The company is an in­teractive television video net­work. 
If you have a little extra cash, and like to speculate, penny stocks may be for you. With some research and a little luck you may soon be the proud ow!ler of a dollar stock. 
Wall St. 
Gainers among the blue chips included International Business Machines, up 314 at 112; General Electric, up at 43.75; Ford Motor, up at 43, and Exxon, up at 40.5. 
United Inns jumped $7.37 to $26.50 when the company an­nounced it has retained an in­vestment banker to offer ad­vice on takeover offers that "have or might be made." 
MCA also joined the gainers by climbing $5.25, to $45. Real estate developer and financier Donald Trump has just bought a block of MCA stock amd may increase his stake to as much as 24.9 percent. 
The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .87 to 144.86. 
Volume on the Big Board came to 177.19 million shares, down from 200.76 million on Thursday. Nationwide turn­over in NYSE listed issues to­taled 22201.47 million shares. 
Standard and Poor's index of 400 industrials rose 2.22 to 296.07, and S&P's 500-stock composite index was up 1.68, at 257.63. 
A true rocking chair 
u The column that brought you the sonic jacket now fea­tures Pioneer's Bodysonic Surround Sound Chair. After con­necting the chair's cord to a television or stereo, the bass­driver in the chair's bottom amplifies the sound and sends vibrations throughout the chair. The chair will sell for $2,000. 
Every dorm room, however, needs the less expensive Sony Boodo Khan Body Acoustic System. This system provides vibrations similar to the the Bodysonic Chair by using a speaker/cushion that fits on any chair, but also includes head­phones. The Boodo Khan system will retail for about $500. 
Wholihan and0 Claeys
"''" 
c ., 
~~--i

Business Briefs
~~·, 
u ABC's -How do state's help pay for public education? More and more states are using funds raised through a state lottery. Most guarantee single Lotto jackpots of $1,000,000. However, certain smaller states are joining forces and funds to offer larger payoffs. The first to do this were Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine, who formed Tristate Megabucks. Making it's debut last week was Lotto America. Six states and the District of Columbia are offering a weekly grand prize that starts at $2 million. Some of the larger states are also following this trend. Ohio, Michigan, New York, and Illinois are considering offering their own super lottery. 
u Lingo-Like any industry, Wall Street has it's own slang language. Words and phrases which allow brokers, traders, and anyone else on Wall Street to communicate better and add some humor to thier jobs. Most companies have nick­names based on their stockmarket symbol. McDannel Douglas is known as Mad Dog because it's symbol is MD. Piedmont's symbol of PIE has earned the airline the nick­name of Pie in the Sky while Minnesota Mining and Manu­facturing (better known as 3M) is called Triple Mary. Other times a company's nickname is based upon a characteristic of that compnay. "We the People" was given to Merrill Lynch because they are the largest brokerage firm. 
Wall Street slang is hardly confined to company names. It also encompasses many other aspects of the investment world. The recent increase of takeovers and mergers has spawned an entire new set of words and phrases. A nuclear war occurs when two companies compete to buy the same corporation. If a company wishes to avoid being the target of a nuclear war it could put a shark repellant clause in the company charter. This clause would make the company less susceptible to a hostile take over. If that doesn't work the company can hope to be saved by a white knight: a person who saves the company from a hostile takeover through buying the company himself. 
u The High Life -Those who will work in Leo Burnett's Chicago office next year (which seems to include the entire College of Arts and Letters) can look forward to working in a brand new 50-story headquarters building. Burnett, who handles advertising for many of America's largest compan­ies such as McDonalds and Pillsbury, will probably begin moving in during 1989 and will take up 25 floors of the building. 

Top Corporate Sponsors of the Olympics 
~ 

.... ­
The Observer Monday, February 15, 1988
page 10 

Sports BriefS 
The men's tennis team defeated Eastern Michigan 8-1. The Irish are now 5-0. Details appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
In the NBA Sunday, New Jersey topped Philadelphia 109-105, the Los Angeles Lakers beat Boston 115-106, Hous­ton defeated Portland 115-103, Denver dumped utah 107-93, and Dallas knocked off the Los Angeles Clippers 110-100. -Associated Press 
In NHL action the Islanders and Rangers tied 4-4 in a battle of New York, Washington clipped Calgary 5-4 in overtime, Chicago beat Buffalo 4-3 in overtime, New Jersey topped Toronto 7-2, Winnipeg nipped Quebec 3-2 and Edmunton edged Vancouver 7-6. -Associated Press 
Lanny Wadkins shot a six-under-par 66 to overtake Tom Watson en route to a one-stroke victory in the Hawaiian Open Golf tournament. -Associated Press 
Patty Sheehan shot a five-under-par 67 to claim her record third-straight Sarasota Classic. Sheehan was two strokes behind Beth Daniels going into the final round. 
-Associated Press 

The Blue Line Club will sponsor a trip to Notre Dame's hockey series against Michigan-Dearborn this weekend. Buses leave Friday, Feb. 19, at 2 p.m. and return Sunday at 1 a.m. (after the game). Cost is $30 for bus transportation, and $65 per room at the Hyatt Regency. 
-The Observer 

Pangborn won the men's division and Lyons won the women's division of the MS 10-mile relay Saturday. The event raised $500 for MS. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Irish· 

continued from page 16 
don't need the three-point shot right now, and we don't need you to commit the dumb foul after the three-point shot.' He was trying to make it up with the steal. I just wanted him to settle down. 
"I thought the way he han­dled the rest of the game was vintage David Rivers." 
Rivers scored 12 of his points in the second half, when he took control. With the Irish down 43­42 with 14: 12left to play, Rivers took an inbounds pass the length of the court for a driving score. He was fouled by Craig Jackson, converted the free throw and put the Irish ahead to stay. 
From there on, it was almost a parade to the stripe, with Voce doing a lot of the march­ing. 
"I knew if I made it to the basket, I'd get the shot off or the foul," Voce said of the in­side strategy. "We knew they were going for the blocked shot, so I pumped faked and went up 
strong." 

Sunday's Results Notre Dame 73, UCLA 66 UCLA (66) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  
Wilson  40  7-15  1-2  10  
Jackson  38  4-6  3-4  8  
Butler  21  2-4  0-0  2  
Richardson  32  6-15  0-0  3  
Immel  28  5-12  2-3  3  
Madkins  21  1-3  0-0  4  
Rochelin  20  3-6  1-2  1  

200 28-61 n­11 66 
F p 3 15 3 11 3 4 4 13 5 13 2 2 1 8 31 21 
FG Pet. -.459. FT Pet. -.636. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -17. 3-PT shooting -Richardson 1-2, Immel 1-3. Madkins 0-2, Rochelin 1-1. Assists -14 (Richardson 5). Technicals -none. 
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish have won three of their last four against the Bruins. These­ries record now stands at 22-14 in UCLA's favor. Before Rivers and Voce arrived in the 1984-85 season, the Bruins had won six straight. The 14 wins are the most by a non-conference team against the Bruins. 
Notre Dame (73) M FG-A FT-A R F 

p Fredrick 38 6-11 3-3 2 4 15 Voce 38 6-8 9-10 1Q 2 21 Robinson 28 1-2 0-0 3 2 2 Rivers 36 8-16 5-6 4 4 21 J.Jackson 8 1-2 0-0 0 1 2 Singleton 4 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Stevenson 35 2-8 2-3 4 0 6 Paddock 13 2-3 2-2 4 1 6 200. 26-50 221-27 14 24 73 FG Pet. -.520. FT Pet. -.875. Team rebounds -b1. Turnovers -13. Assists -11 (Rivers 5). 3-PT shooting -Rivers 0-2. Techni­cals -none. Halftime -Notre Dame 33, UCLA 32. Otfi­cials -Roger Parramore, John Carr, Mike Stockner (all MAC). A -11,418 (c). 
U. S. prepares to meet Czechs 
Associated Press 

CALGARY, Alberta -This 
U.S. hockey team is already one game up on the last one, but the coach who lost to the Americans Saturday night and beat them four years ago says the 1984 team was better never­theless. 
"The 1984 team was a stronger team," Austria coach Ludek Bukac said in the after­math of the 10-6 loss in Satur­day's opening game. "The players were generally better skilled. It was a faster team, and it played with great emo­tion." 
Bukac coached the Czechos­lovakian team, which beat the United States 4-1 in 1984 at Sarajevo, Yugoslavia. 
That loss was the second straight to start for the Americans en route to a disap­pointing seventh-place finish, not even in the medal round. 
But that failure had nothing to do with lack of ability, Bukac said. 
"The reason they didn't do better was that they had a lot of pressure to win" because of the "Miracle on Ice" gold medal at Lake Placid in 1980, he said. "They weren't able to play under the pressure." 
The pressure will return quickly for the current U.S. team, however, as it faces Czechoslovakia Monday night. The third-seeded Czechos­lovaks were upset in their opening game by West Ger­many 2-1. 
"I don't think the Czechs had a good day," U.S. coach Dave Peterson said. "They've been stung. My guess is that they'll react and come back strong against us." 
"There was no trouble get­ting up for the game," starting goaltender Mike Richter said of the Austrian game. 
The 0....Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dim Center, .a:epta classified ~sing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Moodily througtl Friday. The 0....5alnt w.ry's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts cluslfieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day class.lfleds Is 3 p.m. All class.lfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 centa per five a-.ctera per day. 
NOTICES 

Sony Diskettes Contact Tim Dierks ol MadMacs for the best price on Sony DS1JD 3.5" diskettes lor your Macintosh r other computer. Call 283-2101 and help support the Macin­tosh Users Groupl Guaranteed lor life 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1D51 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
Terrie's Typing 287·1283 WORD PROCESSING, LASER PRINTER, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, CAN SAVE ON DISK, FOOTNOTES, RESUMES. 
MY GIRLFRIEND needs a ride lrom ND to Pittsburgh after JPW. If your parents would be able to give her a ride to the Pittsburgh area, please call Kevin at 239-5303. Thanks. 
AN TOSTAL IS COMING I WATCH THIS SPACEIll 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: WALLET -GREY, LEATHER wl 
I.D. KEYS -FOUR KEYS ON SILVER RING I lost them sometime on Saturday 2-6 or Sunday 'VI at either the Huddle or South Dining Hall. Please call Rich at 272-4516. 
FOUND: AT THE LEWIS SYR A NAVY BLUE SPORTCOAT. THE BRAND NAME IS JOHN ALEXANDER; MADE FOR G. FOX. CALL BRENNAN AT 2158 TO CLAIM. 
LOST: Pair ol black HOTFINGER gloves Sat. Nile between ACC and Dillon If found please call Rob 1764 because my hands are cold. Thanx. 
Lost Lost Black and Gold Seiko watch. If lound call Rob at £2506. Reward Reward 
FOUND: CALCULATOR BY SOUTH DINING HALL TUESDAY MORNING. CALL KRIS AT 2790 TO CLAIM. 
FOUND: SMC 88 class ring at 733 St. Louis St. Sat. 2-7 am during performance of Robert Duvall and Napalm Surfers. Call Dirt 288-3421. 
FOUND: PAIR OF GLASSES NEAR ZAHM HALL. CALL JEN AT 3193 TO CLAIM. 
LOST: An all black Nikon FA Camera w1 flash and motor drive: To the person who borrowed rt, the camera has tremendous sentimental value but can be replaced -the film inside, however, is of the Cogswell Family's visil and therelore priceless. If you have an attack of con­science send the film to Mark Dillon 203 
E. Navarre St. South Bend. Any inlorma­tion call 288-8673. Thanks. 
LOST: Gold ring with blue stone, Has­burgh Library last week. Call Beth at 288­6631. REWARD. 
IF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK FIRST IN THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. AND THEN IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. 
LOST BROWN LEATHER JACKET AT BRIDGETS WED. NIGHT. IT ALSO HAS MY CHECKBOOK AND TAX FORMS IN IT. PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE LOST AND FOUND IN LAFORTUNE OR CALL JOE AT 232-7602. THIS JACKET AND ITS CONTENTS ARE QUITE IMPOR­TANT TO ME SO PLEASE HELP ME OUT. 
I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ­INGIII!II!IIIIIIII!I!!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII without my brown leather gloves I left in 120 O'Shag on that cold Wednesday 1Oth 2:00pm. If lound, please call £1763 soon!!lll!lllllll 
Found playing basketball Thursday eve­ning: Mens basketball jersey -call JC at 1209 to claim. 
LOST: IRISH WALKING HAT, SANDY BROWN TWEED. CALL HEATHER 284-5100. 
LOST: One grayMember's Only Glove between Hurley and Grace. Call 2382 
q······q···~-~···~·~~~.............1 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND. 2n­3097' 683-8889. 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955-255­3684 
EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288­0955 
WANTED 
WANTED Macintosh serial HARD DRIVE for Mac 512e with no SCSI port. Call 239-5n2 and leave a message for Matt. 
Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 11 08 evenings. 
OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Asla. All fields. $900-2000 mo. Slghts­lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
Ride needed to Detroit area Jan. 19. Will pay well. Call Mary 3803 
FOR SALE 
SLEEPER LOVESEAT Blue contemporary design like new con­dition $250 CALL 284-4531 or 287-7023 
HELP I CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN MON. MARCH 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTIABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER. 
TICKETS
I. 

HEY Y'ALL, 4 BEAUTIFUL BLONDES FROM VANDERBILT ARE DESPERATELY SEEKING VANDY ND BBALL TIX. PLEASE CALL PAT 2n­2151 
Need VANDERILT GA'S-Mike 1699 
PLANE TICKET 4 SALE S.BEND TO CHICAGO e CHICAGO TO BUR­LINGTON,VT £2153 
( PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
BOYCOTT COCA-COLAI 
Coke Divestment NOT the 'Real Thing'. 
So Max, are high school girls really bet­ter? Happy B-dayl Mike 
Last Chance For Spring Break '88! Limited space remains at South Padre, North Padre, Day1ona Beach, Fort Wal­ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado lor skiing. Hurry, Call Sunchase Tours toll free 1-800-321-5911 lor reserva­tions and Information TODAY. Credit cards accepted. 
•• KATHRYN HUMM " " KATHRYN HUMM " Thank you for such a lovely week-end. Good luck on your Comp. --Daryll Dickie 
KRISTIN K 
THANKS FOR SCREWING OVER OUR 
ROOMMATE!! He may be much too nice a guy to say anything about it, but we aren't! II you didn't want to go to the ball with him, all you had to do was call back and say "No." But to just leave him hanging and never answer his messages like you did was truly TASTELESS! Thanks for showing us that there still are some class­less people in the world. Happy Valen­tine's Day! By the way, an apology might be a real nice gesture on your part --FOR A CHANGEII 
Laurie, To my one and only roommate that I miss more than words can say, It's been quite some time, I've been counting down the days ... This dirtbag loves you. You're my lavor­ite. 
XXX, Col 

Mags, I've got a great idea -take a picture ol ourselves and blow it up. 16 weeks till chaos in Syracuse. Whoohl Whoohl Love 
Always, Molly 

STONEHENGE ROMEOS STONEHENGE ROMEOS Come Dance with the STONEHENGE ROMEOS Tuesday, Feb. 16 at CHIPS 
EARN MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK! JPW needs student workers. Call 239­17814 lor more infol 
ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKET TO ANYWHERE IN THE U.S. CHEAP! Call Karin 284-5275 
LOVE YOU TOO BUGERHEADI 
INTERESTED IN MAKING A LITTLE EX­TRA CASH ON THE WEEKENDS? Be a photographer lor Irish Photos and take pictures at SYR's and formals. All you need is a 35mm camera and a desire to meet people. CALL PAT AT 2318. 
Have you ever covered each other with butterscotch and licked it off? 
So have we 

Happy Valentine's Team America and friends 
especially to the King and Queen, Prince 
ol Pillowhead. Swordsman of Sorin, 
Rapunzel ol the Tower, Duke of Black­
duck, Webbman of Crew, and the 
Minstrel ol Melody. 
Love from me 
PAT D. • HAS UNSIGHTLY NASAL HAIRS!! PLEASE CALL HER AT 277-7306 TO OFFER REGRETS.-THE GEEK 
THE VALENTINE UNSPOKEN My lriend, I shall miss thee. Our gentle talks ol what might be The silly ways you would threaten me. Alas, sweet lass, A mistake I made. That must be paid. t spoke ol things best left unspoken. Your heart as yet too soon lay broken. And so regret­tably, this this valentine needs be, to thee unspoken. Thy sweet smiling lace, beau­tiful like the moon. The ice creams shared with a single spoon. Indeed, I spoke too soon. My sweet friend, I will miss thee. 
I'll have a burger, tries and a large Coke 
Hey Walt Hazzard, Go get a job you can handle John Wooden 
To a great Moonstruck bunch: Thanks for a really great time. You made my weekend! 
Cheers, The Mystery Man 
To those stogies' smoking, heart playing 
stanford studs I met at the commons 
Friday afternoon-­
How about giving me another chance to 
shoot the moon? ANNETTE 
HEY ZABIEREK!! HAPPY BELATED VALENTINE'S DAYI ARENT YA GLAD SOMEONE LOVES YOU? JILL & Dl 
To the blonde haired girl in the red sweater who congratulated me just before she left the dean's list ceremony on 214.•.. Happy Valentines Daylll 
Hey wierdos: the Progressive Music Club ol Notre Dame (under new management) announces bus trip to Nothwestern for Echo and the Bunnymen concert 39. In­to: Greg x1182; Zep x1409. 
MORE QUES:1)Who 2)What 3)What type BE SPECIFIC! 
Yea, but will the Almighty Roundball God kiss you goodnight? 
KIKI: glad you're at ND.Happy 2othlllove: the other 2 sisters 
NOOMC Ballroom Dance Club-A step ahead ol the rest! Meet new people. Have tun! Tonight in Stepan starting at 7:00. Come on out! 
C K Happy B-Day A Camera You Say ? 
Give me an S 
HELP ME ... HELP ME. .. HELP ME ... I seem to have lost my spine. I used to be a big guy, but ever since I lost my skirt I have had an identity problem. I thought it was all solved, but now I have a marshmallow calling me Winnie. What can I possibly do to save mysell? 

-lashions ol a class act­FASHION SAVVY 8 pm CENTURY CENTER FEB. 20 -designer fashions lor men & women, live band, party-free transportation 
Things We Won't Miss II: Liberals 
Soke Is It 
LISA!! 
Thanks for the flower!/ I hope your tree 
on the 27th? Condo lor Spring Break is 
set for Orlando FLA. II Hope you'll like to 
come along and party with us GUYS!! 
CALL ME SOON! MARK 
CRARE PATIENCE IS A VIRTUE THAT I'M LOSING SLOWLY. MY HEART IS YOURS LOVE,? 
G.B. WE DONT ALWAYS SEE EYE TO EYE. BUT BEST OF LUCK. BILL 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, WALT COLLINS From your lriends at The Observer 
To the BEAUTIFUL BLONDE I gave a rose to at the SMC Library on Thursday night--WHO ARE YOU?? I can't get you out of my mind! Please reply here to HOPEFUL. 
SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL THEY'RE BACK!!! 
SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL: This time it's for their SOULS! 
TO BOB HENKE & BILL BAILEY. A belated Happy Valentine's Day!! From the two that love you most, the girl that thinks your a blue-eyed god (B.H.) and the one that loves the way you run. (B.B.) 

Monday, February 15, 1988 
Allison beats son, 
•

WinS Daytona 500 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH -Bobby Allison raced to his third Daytona 500 victory Sunday, outdueling his son Davey to win the 30th edition of stock car racing's premier event. 
The race was marred by a spectacular crash from which seven-time Daytona 500 winner Richard Petty miraculously es­caped serious injury. 
Petty, 50, skidded sideways coming off turn four and was hit and launched into the wall by Phil Barkdoll on the 106th lap. Petty's car pirouetted into the air' then barrel-rolled seven times, coming to rest on its wheels. 
It was then sent spinning again after being hit Brett Bodine's car. Eddie Bierschwale, A.J. Foyt, Rusty Wallace and Alan Kulwicki also were involved in the acci­dent. 
There were no other injuries, and Bierschwale, Wallace and Kulwicki were able to continue racing after repairs. 
Petty was kept overnight at Halifax Medical Center for ob­servation. 
The elder Allison, already the oldest man to win a stock car event, became the first 50­year-old to win a 500-mile race. He won the Firecracker 400 here last July at the age of 49. 
He showed his strength throughout the $1.5-million race at Daytona International Speedway, starting from the second row and running at or near the front all the way. 
There were 17 drivers on the lead lap at the end, the most in the history of the race, as well as 26 lead changes among 12 drivers. 
But the race, the first run with NASCAR's new car­buretor restrictor plates, in­tended to slow the cars in the interest of safety, was the third slowest Daytona 500 ever. 
Seven caution flags for 42 laps--nearly a quarter of the race--held the average speed to 137.531 mph. The slowest pre­vious race was in 1960 when Junior Johnson won at 124.740. 
One of the caution periods was caused by Petty's crash. 
That caution period lasted 21 laps as a track crew replaced two fence posts damaged in the crash at the front of the main grandstand. They also had to retighten the safety cables used to strengthen the fence. 
Bobby Allison, who previ­ously won this event in 1978 and 1982, picked up his 84th career victory, moving him out of a tie for third place on the all-time list with Cale Yarborough. 
The winner, driving a Buick Regal, charged to the lead for the final time just 18laps from the end of the 200-lap event, roaring past Phil Parsons as the green flag came out after a caution period. 
He stayed on top the rest of the way, holding off the Ford of 26-year-old Davey, the 1987 Rookie of the Year by about 21/2 car-lengths. 
It is the first time the father and son from Hueytown, Ala., have finish one-two. 

The Observer page 11 
\ 
AP Photo" 

This crash In one of the 125-mlle qualifying races plagued race and took his third career win at foreshadowed the events of Sunday's Daytona Daytona. 
500. Bobby Allison avoided mishap In the caution­
s 
"We knew if we went to Voce
enI. 0 rs 
continued from page 16 
over Fordham on Wednesday. 
"I wasn't really tired or anything," said Rivers, "but I got off to a slow start. I'm sup­posed to be a leader and of course I want to be out there, but he's the coach. Still, I'd take my ankle at 80 percent over somebody else's at 100 percent." 
But any coach will tell you it doesn't matter who starts the game, it matters who's in there at the final buzzer. Voce and Rivers were there, guarantee­ing that this would not slip away. When the Bruins resorted to desperation fouls in the final minutes, it was Voce and Rivers who parted the nets from the free throw lines, con­necting on 9-of-10 and 5-of-6 at­tempts, respectively. 
"We wanted to go to Voce down the stretch," said Phelps. 
enough that they (UCLA) would foul him and put him at the line." 
Voce, whose 21 points were a career-high, found the Bruins ready and willing to hack him inside. 
"They were playing a really tight man-to-man defense," said Voce, "and there was not a lot of weak-side help. So once I made a move to the ball and took it to the basket, I could either get the shot or the foul." 
UCLA head coach Walt Haz­zard said he knew his team would have to contain Voce and Rivers going into the game if they wanted to pull out a win on Notre Dame's home court. 
"We have a lot of respect for Voce," said Hazzard. "He really can get you on the boards, and with his big body he can bang people around in there. 
"Rivers is a four-year starter and an all-American can-dictate. He is supposed to do the things he does. When he takes the ball coast-to-coast like that, you expect him to make those." 
That coast-to-coast, bob-and­weave trip down the floor which Hazzard is referring to erased the Bruins' last lead in the game. With the Irish down 43-42 at the 12:42 mark of the second half, Rivers took the in­bounds pass the length of the court, drove the lane and threw up a shot-put style layup with his right hand while UCLA's Craig Jackson committed the foul. The shot fell, as did the ensuing free throw for a three-point play. 
"The way he handled the rest of the game (after being pulled in the opening minutes)," said Phelps, "that was vintage David Rivers." 
Together, Rivers and Voce put on the kind of performance expected of senior captains in a big game with a longtime­rival. Senior leadership. You can't define it, exactly, but you know it when you see it. 


page 12 The Observer Monday, February 15, 1988 
•

ND perfect 1n dual finale 
The Observer I Bob Jones 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 

It was the perfect way to end the dual-meet season for the Irish swim teams. 
The men's and women's squads routed their weekend opponents in a final tune-up for the upcoming championship season. The men downed Illinois-Chicago 112-87 Friday and topped Cleveland State 121­83 Saturday. The women, meanwhile, defeated the Flames 118-88 and turned back the Vikings 135-118. 
The convincing victories gave the women a big lift going into the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. The women finished the season at 9-7 and hope to put a season of close losses behind them in championship action. 
"This was a strong, spirited finish for the women,'' Irish mentor Tim Welsh said, "and it solidifies a winning record. This is the fastest, most com­plete team I have coached at Notre Dame. They are better than the 9-7 record and I'm glad they came out of the season with a taste for winning." 
In their last dual meets, the
The Notre Dame swim teams knocked off Cleveland State and 
Illinois-Chicago this weekend. Greg Guffey details the teams' last 
dual meet at right. Macon, Temple blast George Washington 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Top-ranked Temple, led by Mark Macon's 23 points and 17 by Howard Evans, ran away from George Washington in the first half and coasted to a 92-67 vic­tory over the Colonials Sunday in an Atlantic 10 Conference game. 
Temple led 51-27 at halftime as the Owls took their 20th vic­tory against on loss. The tri­umph boosted Temple to 13-0 in the conference. GW slipped to 11-12 and 4-9. 
Coach John Chaney's Owls reached the 20th-victory mark for the fifth consecutive year. The record is the best for a Temple team through 21 games since the 1955-56 team went 20-1 on the way to the NCAA's Final Four. 
The victory also was the Owls' 80th in the last 82 games on their home court and the 100th against nine losses since the field house opened in 1979. 
Arizona 77 Oregon State 62 
TUCSON -Tom Tolbert scored 21 points, including nine in a four-minute stretch mid­way through the second half, to help No. 3 Arizona rally from an 11-point deficit Sunday and beat Oregon State 77-62. 
Arizona, 23-2 and 12-1 in the 
Pacific-10, missed eight of its 
first 10 shots and trailed 19-8 
when Oregon State's Bill Sher­
wood made a 3-pointer from the 
baseline at 9:59. 

Sean Elliot scored 18 points 
for the Wildcats and Earl Mar­
Rllllll)IS 
,ue spreading (,b(l'IliMll .\IDS. 

rl"n 
For the facts call your local Red Cross. or v.nte· AIDS 
+

American Red Cross ~ 
llllshington. OC 20006 

tin scored 18 for Oregon State, 12-8 and 6-5. 
North Carolina 64 Virginia 58 

CHARLOTTESVILLE -Jeff Lebo scored 18 points and No. 6 North Carolina overcame a 17-point deficit to outscore Vir­ginia 12-2 in the final 4: 05 Sun­day, beating the Cavaliers 64­58. 
The Tar Heels, 18-3 and 7-2 

in the Atlantic Coast Confer­Freshman sensation Mark Macon scored 23 over George Washington University Sunday. See ence, shot 36 percent in the first points to lead top-ranked Temple to an easy win college basketball roundup at left. 
half and trailed 33-25 at inter­mission. Virginia, 12-12 and 4-4, which made its first four 3-pointers, 
AMERICAN had raced to a 26-9 lead. 
CANCER 
SOCIETYQt

John Johnson scored 22 points 
f

for Virginia and Mel Kennedy added 11, all in the first half. 
J.R. reid scored 16 for the Tar Heels and Ranzino Smith 10. 
The

The Cavaliers shot 54 percent in the first half, including 6-of­12 from 3-point range. 
Observer 

................

r-::=======···· ....~... -========:-. 
IF YOU WANT TO BE APHYSICIAN, WE'LL PAY FOR IT. 
If you're willing to invest your skills and knowledge as an Air Force medical officer, we'll invest in you and pay your way through medical school if you qualify. Irs the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. It pays for: 
• Tuition· 

* 
Books: supplies, equipment and lab fees;

* 
Plus a monthly income of more than $650. Call 


CAPT JAMES RICHEY USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
317-848-5830 
Collect 

GROW \\tiTH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your 
potential,  look  into  the  many  
opportunities  available  in  NAVY  
MEDICINE.  

• 
Medical Scholarships 

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses 


The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a professional career plus the unique benefits and rewarding lifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefits 


A Navy Medical Programs representative will be on campus February 17 & 18 in the Pre-Professional Office 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. 
An information booth will be outside the Library 
1-800-527-8836 
NAVY~OFFICER. 
LEAD TilE ADVENTURE 
seniors rose to the occasion and paced the victories for the wo­men. All of the competing seniors recorded career-best times during the weekend meets. Welsh says this perfor­mance proves the Irish are ready for the next step. 
"The seniors all had a great meet Saturday," Welsh said. "These are all good signs that there is energy left to prepare for the championship season. All the optimism says 'bring on the big meets.' " 
Sophomore Kathy Quirk and freshman Christy Moston won three events for the Irish against Illinois-Chicago. Quirk won the 50 and 500 freestyle and was part of the winning 400 medley relay team, while Mas­ton won the 200 individual med­ley and was on the 400 medley and the 200 free relay winners. 
Against Cleveland State, Amy Darlington won the 100 and 200 butterfly, and Andrea Bonny captured the one-and three-meter diving events. Be­cky Wood took the 100 breaststroke, Moston the 100 backstroke, and Quirk the 100 free. All three were part of the winning 200 medley relay team. 
The men finished the dual­meet season with a 13-3 ledger, winning 10 of their last 11 meets. The Irish won the Mid­western crown in 1986 and hope to recpature the title after rejoining the conference this season. 
"The men's objective was to win more dual meets than any other season and they accom­plished that," Welsh said. "We've achieved some real flexibility in the lineup and that has assisted in our preparation for the championship season." 
Jim Byrne led the Irish at­
tack against the Flames with 
first places in the 200 back­
stroke and the 200 individual 
medley. Dave Thoman won the 
50 free Saturday, while Bill 
Jackoboice took the 100 butter­
fly. Both were part of the win­
ning 200 medley relay team. 
"Cleveland State played a very important role in the de­velopment of the swimming program here," Welsh said. "This meet was the first away for the seniors, it was the first meet in Rolf's Aquatic Center and it is the last for the seniors now. It's been great to watch the progress." 
AP Photo 

Monday, February 15, 1988 
The Observer 

Hockey team barely tested 
•
1n thrashing of Villanova 
Ry STEVE MEGARGEE Freshman Bill Lerman and 'Cats an early 1-0 lead with a Sports Writer junior Tom Smith led the Notre breakaway goal, the Irish ex­Dame scoring attack with two ploded with four unanswered 
It wasn't too hard to predict goals apiece, while senior goals within six minutes of the outcome of the Notre defenseman Lance Patten had each other to gain control. Dame-Villanova hockey series three assists. But Villanova rallied, as before it started last weekend. Lance Madson and Marc Kevin Stadtler scored on a 
But the two teams went O'Sullivan shared time at breakaway in the last second ahead and played anyway, and goalie. and combined to record of the first period, and Bob the result was just as expected­an easy shutout, as Notre Ward tallied three minutes into -two Notre Dame routs. The Dame outshot Villanova 61-16. the second period to make the Irish swept the Wildcats 14-0 The 14-0 score represented the score 4-3. and 15-5 to improve their largest margin of victory for The Villanova highlights record to 23-2-2. Notre Dame since the Irish ended there. Notre Dame 
"It just shouldn't have been pounded Culver Military scored six unanswered goals in scheduled, the former athletic Academy 18-1 in the 1921-1922 the next 12 minutes to make the director scheduled it," said season. score 10-3 after two periods. first-year Irish coach Ric. Rob Bankoske led the run with Schafer. ''If it were a boxing Notre Dame had to cope with two goals. match, it would have been the an epidemic of sickness that af­kind where everybody says, fected several key players in Notre Dame continued the 'Stop the fight.' " Saturday's game. That may onslaught with five third­
Villanova goalies Mitch have been a reason why the period goals, including two Doren and Jimmy Clark prob­Irish only managed to win by goals by freshman John Ghia, ably would have led any cheers 10 g?als in a 15-5 annihilation. to make the final score 15-5. to stop this series. The Irish, using several players who Lerman, who usually does Notre Dame tied a school hardly seen game action all not suit up for the Irish, pro­record of 23 wins in a season year, still managed to rock the vided the scoring heroics with the sweep. Schafer didn't Wildcats for almost 30 goals again, with a hat trick that think a series with the 7-18-1 during the weekend. gave him five goals for the Wildcats did anything to help 
Notre Dames informed Vil­weekend. prepare the Irish to try and lanova it was going to be a "This is his opportunity to break the record this weekend miserable weekend in the form really shine, and I thought he at Michigan-Dearborn. of a five-goal spurt in just over played pretty well," said ''Our scrimmages are prob­six minutes during the first per­Schafer. ably more worthwhile," iod Friday. That helped give At one point, it actually Schafer said. "It was a mis­the Irish a 6-0 lead after one looked like the Wildcats might match. This is nothing against period. The rest of the series make a game of it. After Villanova; we're just two dif­

Teaching math or science as Peace Corps Volunteer. you will a Peace Corps Volunteer will handle responsibilities and meet develop your professional skills in challenges far greater than the classroom and beyond. You those that might be offered in a might teach basic math to rural starting position in the United students in Belize ... and after States. When you return. your school set up a vegetable gar­Peace Corps experience may den to improve nutrition. Or be open new doors to you. Educa­assigned as a physics teacher tional institutions. international 
in Lesotho. In addition. help firms and government agencies local women market handicrafts value someone with your 
to earn school fees. As a experience. 
25 years of PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. See Our Free Film 
Wed.. Feb. 17th at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Interviews 

Wed.. & Thurs .. Feb. 24th & 25th at the Career Placement Office. 
Interviews 

at St Ma ·s. Fri.. Feb. 26th in the Career Development Center 





page 14 

Jansen loses shot at 500-meter gold 
Associated Press 

CALGARY, Alberta -The day began in tragedy and ended in disaster for Dan Jan­sen, a U.S. speed skater who carried the Winter Olympic hopes of America and the in­spiration of his dying sister. 
Jansen's sister, Jane, died of leukemia Sunday morninp, and several hours later, the world sprint champion fell in the 500­meter race. 
"Maybe it just wasn't meant to be," he said. "My family doesn't want me to go home now and I know Jane wouldn't want that." 
After one false start, Jansen
.. 
slid out of the inside lane and crashed into Yasushi Kuroiwa. Jansen got up and slapped his 

knees. He jerked his hood off amd hid his head in his hands. Frustration and sorrow were etched on his face. 
Kuroiwa was given another chance in the 500 meters. Jan­sen, who was not allowed a res­kate, will have to wait until Thursday's 1,000 meters to go for the gold medal. 
Jansen said the fall came so fast. "I can't remember much. My first 100 wasn't normal for me. It felt like it slipped out from under me, and the next thing I knew I was in the mats." 
Earlier in the day, a barroom brawler from Finland, Matti Nykanen, easily won the 70­meter event. He can become the first jumper in the Olym­pics to win two gold medals if he defends his Olympic title on the 90-meter hill Wednesday. 
At the same time, the Olym­pic comeback of Finland's 1984 triple gold medalist, Marja­Liisa Kirvesniemi, was spoiled by a young student from the So­viet Union. 
And hurricane-force winds 
that made it difficult to stand, 
let alone race on skis, forced 
postponement of the men's 
downhill. The race was res­
cheduled for Monday, when 98 
mph winds were expected to 
abate. 

The speed skating gold went 
to Jens-Uew Mey of East Ger­
many in a world-record time of 
36.45 seconds. Jan Ykema of the Netherlands won the silver, and Akira Kuroiwa of Japan got 
Defense 
continued from page 16 
packed it in and when we couldn't score from the outside, they were great on defense." 
Notre Dame shot 10 of 27 (37 percent) in the first half and finished the game 23 of 55 (42 percent). Going into the game, the Irish led the nation in field goal percentage at over 53 per­cent. 
"We just shot so poorly," McGraw said. "We were awful in the first half. That won't hap­pen again. We weren't taking bad shots, we were just missing them. We looked real tired through the whole game and I don't know why." 
The Irish had better rest up, 
as six of their remaining seven 
games are on the road, includ­
ing this week's contest!:: at 
Cleveland State and Mar­
quette. 

the bronze. Thometz finished eighth. 
"It's been a real tough time for the people on the team," 
U.S. Coach Mike Crowe said. "We pulled together a little tonight for Dan. It was difficult for people to get up and skate the way they would have liked." 
The 24-year-old Nykanen soared 89.5 meters on both his jumps to easily win the 70­meter. If he wins the 90-meter, he would become the first man to win both jumping gold medals since the event was split in 1964. 
Finnish Coach Matti Pulli thinks Nykanen has a good chance for the other medal be­cause of the temper that has gotten Nykanen into barroom fights and suspended from the team, and earned him the nick­name Matti Nukes. 
"Yes, he's still strong­headed at times," Pulli said. "But you need to be like that to win gold medals. In Finland we have many nice athletes, polite people, but they don't win gold medals." 
Pavel Ploc of Czechoslovakia won the 70-meter silver, and countryman Jiri Malec took the bronze. 
Vida Ventsene, a 23-year-old Soviet, won the first gold medal of the Games when she finished the women's 10-kilometer cross-country ski race in 30 minutes, 8.3 seconds. Kirves­niemi, who won all three indi­vidual events and had a bronze medal in the relay at the 1984 Sarajevo Games, was ninth. 
At age 32, Kirvesniemi came back this summer from two years' retirement and the birth of her daughter, and she still has three more chances for a medal--in the 5-and 20­kilometer races and the 20­kilometer relay. 
Raisa Smetanina, 36-year­old Soviet veteran, won the sil­ver, and Marjo Matinainen of Finland took the bronze. 
Jansen learned early Sunday morning that his sister had died of leukemia back home in Wis­consin. 
Jansen, the youngest of nine children, won the World Sprint Speed Skating championships last weekend at West Allis, Wis. 
His sister, Jane Beres, was 
too sick to accompany him to 
Calgary, so he had hoped she 
could watch him win gold on 
television. 

SUNDAY, MARCH 6 7:30pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 (includes $.50 for Building Improvement Fund) 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS, WORLD RECORDS AND TAPES AND J.R.'S. CHARGE: (219) 284-9190 
Monday, February 15, 1988
The Observer 


The Notre Dame wrestling team had a lackluster performance as It fell tc1 the 16th-ranked Ohio 
ND doo1med by 'flat' showing, fall 23-13 to 16th-ranked OSU 
By JOHN GREEN 
Sports Writer 

Flat. That's how Irish wrestling coach Fran McCann described his team's perfor­mance after he watched his squad's record fall to 5-4 with a 23-13 loss to the 16th-ranked Ohio State Buckeyes Friday night at the JACC. 
"We just came out flat tonight, and I'm not sure why," said McCann. "This was a big meet for us. We were facing a top-20 team in Ohio State, and I felt that we matched up very well against them. But the kids did not seem to be up for this one. They just did not wrestle aggressively enough to win." 
A perfect example of the Irish being too conservative oc­curred in the first match of the evening, when Notre Dame's 118-pound sophomore Andy Radenbaugh was held to a 2-2 tie by Buckeye David Range. 
"That match set the tone for the whole meet," said McCann. "Last week against Miehigan, Andy defeated one of the top wrestlers in the Big Ten. Now tonight, against an average Big Ten wrestler, he's too hesitant and has to settle for a draw." 
However, the Irish did come out on top in the most an­ticipated match of the evening. 
Notre Dame's Chris Geneser, ranked No. 12 in the country, was pitted against the Buck­eyes' Ron Gharbo, who entered the match rated No. 10. Watch for those rankings to switch now. Geneser dominated the match from the outset and looked very impressive as he coasted to a 10-6 win over Gharbo. 
"That was an important match up for Chris," McCann commented. "With nationals coming up, he knows that he has got to go out and win each match decisively. And that's exactly what he did tonight. It was just a tremendous perfor­mance on Chris's part." 
Other victors on the evening for Notre Dame were 134-pound junior Jerry Durso and 142­pound senior Ron Wisniewski. Freshman Todd Tomazic also managed to come away with a draw at 167 pounds. 
Despite the loss of the meet, Coach McCann is still very op­timistic about his Irish squad. "We're a young team," he ex­plained. "Ohio State starts five seniors, Michigan had six, but we start only two. And with youth like that comes inconsis­tency. 
"But now we're through the toughest part of our schedule, and the kids have done well. A big thing is that we have hung in there against schools ranked in the top-20. We stayed com­petitive. 
"And we had our chances to win. If we get another point tonight in each of those two ties (at 118 and 167), and pull out another win somewhere, then we win this meet. It was that close." 
The Irish will try to get back on the winning track when they play host to the Olivet Comets tomorrow night in the last home meet befor the NCAA Western Regionals. The match will begin at 7 p.m. in the aux­iliary gymnasium of the JACC. 

CLASS OFFICE AND OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER ELECTIONS 
FOR TiiOS E INTERESTED IN DECLARING ruEffi. TICKET CANDIDACY FOR Tiffi OFF1CES OF TiiE C! ASSES OF "89 '90 ANQ'9! JJiESE DATES ARE OF GREAT IMPORTANCE· 
lnfortll.ltiona! Meeting for Pro.pcctivc Dndid&&es: 1HURSDAY, kbruary 18 
6:00 pro NOlle Dame Room. 2nd floor LaFortune 

MANDATORY Mcerinc for~ CandidaJcs; lUESDAY, February 23 
6:00 pm NOlle Dame Room. 2nd floor Lafortune 

Petitions Required for Candidacy Due: FRIDAY, Fcbruaryn26 
12:00 noon in tbc S1uden1 Govc:nunoonl Offices, 2nd llooc Lafonune 

CAMPAIGNING BEGINS:  lUESDAY, March I  
CAMPAIGNING ENDS:  MONDAY, March 7  
al midnighl  

!EJLJECifilON TDAY: lUESDAY, March 8 
Runoff Campaigning (if necessary) Wednesday, March 9 Runoff Election (If necessary) Thursday, March 10 


Monday, February 15, 1988 
The Observer 
page 15 


{)() >0!1 t<€ALIZ€ 11EY'Vt 6(JT fHO'TO 5/l~t.L.IT€5 1/P me:f?E 1HIIT CI/N 5€£ 111€ C(){.()R Of 01/R EYES ... \  NO (l()(J!ff, fl fJ/~TrJI?eiN& f(CII€t/ITKJN 7lJ 11/..L 7HtJSe CtAN/J€ST7Nt Cl?llr16-COtnMI~R5. \  


Gargoyle socks 
~************************~ 
~ ~ 
~ J., Saturday, March 5 ~ ~ ~ fl'. at Theodore's ,/) t 
~ ~ ~ $200 GRAND PRIZE!!! ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
********Sponsored by SUB ~ ** 
• 
Interested acts should contact Maura (x2745) or Mack (x1184) by Feb. 19. 
Campus · · · 
Monday 
12 p.m.-1 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Seminar (Brown Bag), Father Robert Pelton, ND, will give a slide show presentation on "The Role of Central American and U.S. Bishops in the Peace Process." Room 112 Law School. Public invited. 6:30p.m.: SMC Religious Studies Speaker "Human Love in the Bible," by Pro­fessor Adela Collins, ND, Little Theatre 7 p.m. and 9:30p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "All 
That Jazz," 1979. Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Speidano Romano 

Baked Sole wl Savory Rice 
Dressing 
Meatless Baked Ziti 
Chicken Mozzarella 

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
Comics . . : ··.. 
,, 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 
· -.-· 
Saint Mary's Baked Chicken Broccoli Stuffed Fish Spaghetti wl Meat Sauce Deli Bar 

I I 
~I 
\ 
~~~ 
SEE [)ICK Dt'JID 
The Daily Cross"Yord . 
ACROSS 1 Clenched hand 5 Rink 
10 Long poem 14 Look ­(Investigate) 15 Food from 
orchids 16 Tunisian port 17 Rabbit's tall 18 Soak 19 Printing term 20 Hack 21 Surgical 
bristle 22 Mountain 

ridges 24 Eccentric 26 Qum native 27 Scarfs 29 Sham 32 Michigan's 
neighbor 33 Duplicate 34 -rummy 35 Eng. 
composer 36 Denoted 37 -Blanc 38 Creak 39 Lofty nest 40 Stove 41 Affronted 43 Bother 44 Assumed 

name 45 Loud noise 46 Malden 48 Labor 49 Unit of work 52 Border on 53 Claims 55 Adored one 56 Part 57 Thoughts 58 Long easy 
stride 59 Inspector 60 Shrewd 61 US author 

DOWN 1 Royal treasury 2 Peruvian 
Indian 3 Obstinate 4 Little one 
? • 


-
©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
II 
AILOIG RIAFIT lACIARI LID GIE UTAH T 0 BE 0 DID ZIE T 0 I LIE 
~~~~~O~~S IU TIE YIE 
LIL IDIEIA N IMII....,_I~OI~F F IRIE T I RIE 
SIT liE s•RIOIAID.HIO AIR C I A T I C H IF 0I R IT I Y IW I IN KIS AIB 0 I0 • 1-liiJU.R •1 0~~1
S E 

T.'U•R•INfnii~N~~~~YIO~O~~
ITIAIPIS.Lfl_ lA MIE
• 

I N T H E A N[O IO ~~~ IM'A R IIA IT 10 IR I IGRiiFi IAMIENIS IORIES ILAICK 
S E E 0 Y IN EIW T I E Y I E S 
39 "I cannot 47 "It's -!" 
tell-" 48 Youth 40 Genuine 50 Lasso 42 Overcoat 51 Gaiety 43 Prudish 54 Mountain In 45 Arthur -Crete 
Doyle 55 Stevedore's 46 Be brave union 
All Rights Reserved 
5 Resources 6 Shabby 7 Ancient Gr. 
city 8 Once called 9 Obvious 
10 Ancient ascetic 11 Showing off In a way 12 Words of understanding 13 Spiteful 
women 21 Br. gun 23 Appraise 25 Lily plant 26 Aromatic oil 27 Afr. river 28 City on the Po 29 Tartan 30 Scorch 31 Enroll 33 Goddess of 
agriculture 

36 Tinny 
37 Church ritual 
_ 

Far Side 











