
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Cool, dude 
jACCENT:Local bands jam 
Mostly cloudy and cool today 
with a high in the middle 50s. 
The low for tonight will drop 
into the upper 30s.
IVIEWPOINT: Task force issues 

VOL. XXI, NO. 119 MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Hijackers 
Associated Press 
LARNACA, Cyprus--The hijackers of a Kuwaiti jumbo jet offered to trade passengers for fuel Sunday and threatened to crash the aircraft into Kuwait's royal palace. They also warned of a "slow and quiet massacre" of their hostages if their demands were not met. 
A flight engineer said the hijackers, who are demanding the release of 17 pro-Iranian terrorists imprisoned in 

threaten 
Kuwait, had started to hurt one of the passengers. 
It is believed there are still 53 people aboard the Kuwait Airways Boeing 747, including three members of Kuwait's ruling Al-Sabah family and at least six hijackers. 
In Lebanon, a pro-Iranian group threatened to kill kid­napped American and French hostages if any attempt was made to storm the plane. 
A statement from the Islamic Jihad terrorist group was 

to kill passengers in Cyprus 
delivered to the Reuters news agency in west Beirut, along  senger since seizing the plane Tuesday, threatened to kill  return for fuel, but that was rejected at Kuwait's insis­ 
with photographs of journalists Terry Anderson, an American,  their captives, but a noon dead­line passed without any addi­ tence.  
and Jean-Paul Kauffmann of France.  tional slayings.  Negotiators talked with the hijackers for 20 minutes late  
"To  the  families  of  the  One minute before a second  Monday and Cypriot govern­ 
hostages,  we declare that we  deadline  expired  four  hours  ment spokesman Aids Fantis  
shall execute the Western cap­ later,  the  engineer, relaying  said, "There was an important  
tives in Lebanon if the plane and holy warriors (hijackers)  the hijackers' messages toLar­naca Airport control tower,  contact right now, and by to­morrow morning we shall know  
aboard  are  subjected to  any  said: "they've already started  the result that we would hope  
military  foolhardiness,"  the  to hurt one of the passengers."  to be what we wish to have."  
statement said. In Cyprus, the Arab hijack­ers, who have killed one pas- He gave no details. Later, the hijackers offered to free 20 of the passengers in  "It's the same offer always, the release of the hostages for fuel," he said.  


The Observer1 Rob Regovich
And all that jazz 
Trumpet player Jimmy Owens pumps out a number Stepan Center this weekend. at the Collegiate Jazz Fest. The festival was held at 
Input plan ready to go 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN News Editor 
A plan for student govern­ment to gather student response to the recently released task force reports was discussed in a special meeting on Friday. Student Body President Tom Doyle asked for support from the newly elected Hall Presidents' Council, dis­trict student senators, and class presidents. 
He said the role of student government concerning the reports was "to stand up for the rights and the interests of students. Student government is where those types of issues are addressed." 
The plan was split into three parts, said Mike Paese, student body vice president. Paese said "The focus of this entire effort is going to be in two areas -­
that every student should have the opportunity to express themselves both orally and in written form." 
The first part of the plan pro­posed a series of hall meetings. The hall president, the district 


Lopez named new ND leprechaun 
By REGIS COCCIA News Editor 
The Fighting Irish have a new leprechaun. 
Ray Lopez, a junior from Alice, Texas, won a close two­day competition Saturday to become Notre Dame's 1988-89 mascot. 
Next year's cheerleaders were also announced Saturday. 
"We had a really tight race going--it was so close," Lopez said. "It's a great feeling. I put a lot of time and effort into it. I have a lot of people to thank. My friends really came through for me and my family was backing me the whole way," he said. 
"It's going to be a challenge. 
There's something special in what (the leprechaun) represents and I hope I can ex­emplify that." 
The competition was rated by 10 judges from the Universal Cheerleading Association, the Notre Dame Athletic Depart­ment and past cheerleading squads, said current leprec­haun Brian Stark. 
Competitors were required to perform the Irish jig, gym­nastic stunts, an improvisa­tional entertainment routine, and an original skit. Judges also interviewed each compet­itor. 
Lopez said he acted out a skit with the help of his friends in which he taped a rainbow across the gym in the Joyce ACC and danced his way to a pot of gold at one end, from which he pulled a national championship banner. 
For his 40-second improvisa­tional routine, Lopez said he spun a basketball on a pencil and break-danced to Elvis Presley's tune, "Jailhouse Rock." 
Lopez will officially assume the duties of leprechaun at the Blue-Gold football game in about two weeks, said Stark. "I'll meet with (Lopez) and pass some of the traditions, such as the shillelagh and some of the other secret things that go from leprechaun to leprec­haun," Stark said. 
Margo Ball will captain the women's cheerleading team that will include returnees Sinead Rigney, a junior, soph­omore Kristin Komyatte and new members Claudia Limardo, Michelle Paraiso and Keilleen Phelan. Kathleen Kel­ley will serve as alternate. 

The men's squad is captained by junior John Romney and in­cludes returnee Geoff Kohles and new members Fred Ac­hecar, Nick Farmer, Don Gomez and Todd Parker. Bren­dan Teehan is alternate. 
The cheerleaders and leprec­haun will hold daily practices to prepare for the upcoming Blue-Gold game, said Gomez. Before the fall semester begins, the squads will have a week ofpractice and attend a weeklong cheerleading camp. 
student senator, an invited memberofeachtaskforce,and an invited member of the ad­ministration would be at each hall meeting. Minutes from each meeting would be com­piled and sent to University President Father Edward Mal­loy, said Paese. 
"If the hall presidents, num­ber one, can't get a turnout in their hall, and number two, can't effectively facilitate the discussion, then we have failed from the outset," said Paese. 
The second part of the plan was a student survey on the task force reports. "We're going to have a questionnaire which is sent out to every stu­dent at the University .... These will eventually be com­piled, summarized, and put into a report," said Paese. This report would also be sent to Malloy, he added. 
The plan also proposed that "the most clear and relevant responses will be put into The Observer in space that student government will buy," said 
see INPUT, page 6 
UFW head to speak 
Special to The Observer 
Cesar Chavez, president of the United Farm Workers of America, will speak today at 8 p.m. in the Center for So­cial Concerns. 
Chavez will show a short videotape about the Ul'"'W's boycott of fresh California table grapes before the talk. 
The boycott was called to bring attention to the danger to farm workers and consu­mers caused by the use of pesticides in the fields sur­rounding California's San Joaquin Valley. 

Monday, April 11 , 1988 
page 2 The Observer 

Of Interest 
AIESEC will be holding the third organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in Room 120 Hayes-Healy. All members, particularly marketing members, are asked to attend for additional information on company marketing. -The Ob­server 
Apartheid Information Night will be held today in Pasquerilla East's party room at 8:30p.m. The video, "Children of Apartheid," will be shown and discussion will follow. -The Observer 
"Juniors: Learn How to Fill Outthe Profile Form" 
is the title of a presentation to be given by Paul Reynolds 
of the Career and Placement Services office today at 7 
p.m. in Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. Juniors of all majors are strongly encouraged to attend. The talk will be repeated Tuesday and Wednesday. -The Observer 
Elizabeth Hay, professor at Harvard Medical School, will speak on "The Mesenchymal Cell: Control of Cell Shape and Locomotion by Matrix-Cytoskeleton Interac­tion" today at 4:30 p.m. in the Galvin Life Science auditorium. -The Observer 
Baggage truck operators must register with the Office of Student Activities, before they will be allowed to have a truck on campus. Stop by Room 315 LaFortune Student Center to register your truck and order mailing labels. 
-The Observer 
Applications for Cellar workers are due Friday, April 15 at 5 p.m. at the Cellar. Applications for Irish Gardens workers are available today through Wednesday and are due Friday. Applicants for these positions must be on work study. -The Observer 
Senior class "Backpack to Briefcase" lectures will take place Tuesday from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. Topics include: "Finding a Place to Live" by Jan DaBrowiak, manager of Georgetown Apartments; "You and the Community" by Susan Cornell-Obi, director of research at the South Bend Chamber of Commerce and Project Future· and "Being a Notre Dame Alumnus" by Chuck Lennon 'exec­utive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Associatio~. -The Observer 
Brown Bag Seminars continue with "Notes on Contemporary Brazil: Political and Economic Aspects" by Vera Barrouin Machado, the head of the cultural section of the Brazilian Embassy in Washington, D.C. The lecture will be Tuesday at noon in Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
-The Observer 
Peace Corps Overseas Undergraduate Internship applications are available at the Center for Social Con­cerns, the Peace Institute and Room 101 O'Shaughnessy. Freshmen, sophomores and juniors who are American citizens are eligible; candidates should have demonstrated interest in community service and potential to live and work overseas. Fall, spring or summer placements are possible. For more information call239-5142. -The Obser­ver 

Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra will be performing works by Haydn and Beethoven on April17 at 4 p.m. in Washington Hall. -The Observer 
Cesar Chavez, President of United Farm Workers will speak today at 8 p.m. at the Center for Social Concern~ on the "Wrath of Grapes" boycott. This presentation is part of Peace with Justice Week. -The Observer 


Deaign Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Warnke Copy Editor ......................... Greg Lucas Deaign A"iatant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jason May Sparta Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen Typeaetter ..................... Jim Mercurio Accent Layout . ........... Annette Rowland Newa Editor.......................... Jim Riley Photographer ................... Rob Regovich 
Tile a.-.-(USPS 599 2-4000) ia published Monday throup Friday except durina eum and vacation periods. Tile Olleen• is published by the studenu or the University or Noue Dule and Saint Mary's Colleae. Sublc:riptiona may be purchu­ed rOI' S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina Tile~-. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dule, Indiana 46556. 
Tile~-is a membu of Tile "-~aiM rn.. All reprodllWon ri&hU are reserved. 


Little Leaguer's catch makes playing worth it 
How many of us can remember back to the days in fifth and sixth grade, when members Mark · of the opposite sex had cooties and candy bars 
were only a quarter? Me laughlin


About this time of year was my least favorite because of one thing: Little League. I hated it News Editor and my parents made me go. Mom thought I 
was cute and Dad wanted me to be good at it. ----------------­
I guess most parents feel that way. 
Our league had real live kid pitchers that were expected to come somewhere near the strike zone. They didn't. I got hit once and that was all it took to rid me of any desire to play the game. 
Most of the time I stood out in right field in the daisy patches, staring up at the sky or at the bumblebees. I was in the 'B' league for lesser players ('B' is for Bad, the A-leaguers said), and so I didn't see too many balls hit my way. Pretty boring. 
The game has changed a lot since I sat through it. My little brother is in Little League now, and enjoys it immensely when he's not out skateboarding or causing trouble. 
They don't have 'A' leagues and 'B' leagues anymore. Everyone gets to play, by league rule. Kids still pitch, but they pitch only three innings a game and only six innings a week. 
The Pioneer league, for younger kids, is even better. Kids don't pitch at all, coaches toss up sl~w pitches over the plate. No score is kept in prodigies into hating baseball. People are ac­PIOneer games. There's lots more practice and tually believing the old cliche: ''It's not whether instruction and lots less competition and unrea­you win or lose, it's how you play the game." sonable expectation. They don't even call it a That Vince Lombardi stuff about "winning league. It's a baseball clinic, where.kids learn isn't everything. It's the only thing" is fine for to play baseball. Competition can wait until men and women. Boys and girls can't handle Little League, and even then it's low key. it, or at least shouldn't have to. 

Some people would say that we shouldn't treat I certainly didn't handle it. I didn't even stay these kids with kid gloves, that we should make in the batter's box when my peer's pitching was them compete because 'the real world is like on the inside half of the plate. that.' That doesn't teach competition, not at There was one day, though, where I actually age eleven. That teaches kids to hate the game, enjoyed myself. I had gotten a walk and an or at least playing it. I hated it because it was actual hit, my only one of the season. But my forced on me without much coaching and even right field play was the highlight of the day. less teaching. Two men on, tied up in the fourth. Someone 
My brother loves the game, even says he actually hit a blooper to right field, and I ran wants to be on the Mets when he grows up. in and picked the ball off the top of the grass, That's what Little League is for. He enjoys the a shoestring catch. game because he was taught it, not thrown into The coach was stunned. So was the other it. team. I flipped the ball to the mound in my best 
It's too bad that there are probably still imitation of a calm, cool big leaguer and went coaches and parents and older brothers and in to the bench with quite a grin on my face. sisters out there who e_ush their budding Maybe Little League was worth it for me, too. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGh ~CHOUi. STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
., 

~·f • ' l ~ I . ' . I'I\. f.·.
: """· \\ ' ; . /I ' .. ..J /l
•)

I \,~ '· ...___ ~~.... /·
/'/_,~·· · 

....... ~-"'-..: ''l ~ '· ':. /
~~":I~--..'l--=--
DOtn OIIW: DIM&K,OIIJIK WlTK AI'IWft WHO Dot\ 


Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer ~ advertising. JMt C Call 239-6900 ~ 
-~'•Hair 
.s~ 
531 N. Miclliflon St:. Phone lJJ-4957 

We need people to fill the following positions: 
-Advisory Council Reps. -Publicity Commissioner -Social Commissioner -Major Events Commissioner -Service Project Commissioner -Senate Coordinator Commissioner 
-Religious Activities Commissioner -Academic Commissioner 
Applications & Job Descriptions are available in the Student Government Secretary's Office-2nd floor Lafortune from I 12. 

Monday, April 11, 1988 The Observer 
a e 3 



Cracks form down middle of Student Center 
By JIM WINKLER Staff Reporter 
The cracks in the walls and floor in LaFortune Student Center are the result of compli­cations during renovations last year and present no danger to the people who use the building, said Don Dedrick, director of Notre Dame's Physical Plant. 
The problem in LaFortune occurred along the area where the new addition to the building was joined to the existing struc­ture. On the third floor, the damage is most visible, as many floor tiles are cracked and a gap has opened along the base of the wall. The floor in the new section is slightly higher than the floor in the old part. 
Dedrick said the cracks came about because water soaked into the cement while the extension was roofless during its construction last year. This made it difficult for the cement from the new build­ing to settle evenly with that of the existing part. As the ce­ment dried out, the cracks developed, Dedrick said. 

"It is difficult to build a structure on to an existing piece as old as LaFortune," he said, adding "You usually leave a little space between the old and the new parts so that it can expand." 
The repair work for LaFor­tune will be handled by Notre Dame and will be paid for by the University, Dedrick said. The company that handled the LaFortune renovations, Wright Construction Company, is not liable or responsible for the damage, he added. 
Work to repair these cracks will begin after school has finished for the year, Dedrick said. "It's not really a big prob­lem, and so there is no reason to disturb the students by doing work now," Dedrick said. The cost of the repairs has not been finalized, but it will not be that expensive, Dedrick said. 
Exactly how the building will be repaired has not yet been determined. According to Dedrick, one option is to fill the cracks and repai ntthe walls, while putting new tiles down on 


Campus construction projects running on schedule 
By JIM WINKLER Staff Reporter 
All three of the current con­struction projects on campus are on or ahead of schedule, ac­cording to Don Dedrick, direc­tor of Notre Dame's Physical Plant. 
Both of the new dorms will open as scheduled this August, Dedrick said. Siegfried Hall, next to Pasquerilla West, is two-thirds complete. Accor­ding to Dedrick, the exterior is all but finished, and the top two floors are "essentially com­plete." Knott Hall is not as far along as Siegfried, but will be finished in time to house stu­dents next fall. 

These new dorms will house women, both freshmen and transfers from other dorms. According to Dedrick, the dorms have been modeled after the neighboring Paasquerillas. Each dorm will be air­conditioned, and will consist of three living floors and a ground floor of social space. 
Dedrick said that the dorms will each consist of two wings on each floor. "This will divide each floor into two sections, each with its own lounge, bath­room, and showers," Dedrick said. In addition, there will be lounge space on each . floor where the two wings ineet. 
Tel Aviv $355 Rio $385 Tokyo $499 


the floor. Brother Francis Gorch, the building manager in LaFortune, said that another option would be to sand down the floor, eliminating the slight differential between the old and new parts. Carpeting would then be put down on the third floor. The second floor of LaFortune is already fully car­peted. 
Several other buildings on campus have already or are currently receiving additions, but Dedrick discounted the likelihood of similar damage occuring. "It is possible in the Law School, but it will be to a lesser extent. It is always a pos­sibility when you add onto an old building," Dedrick said. 

Cracks in the walls and floor of LaFortune Student Center have appeared recently along the area where the new addition was added about two years ago. 
That is also the location of the 
elevator. 
On the front of North Dining Hall, Dedrick said, two add­tions to dining areas are under construction. Each of these will be hi-level and will be "full of sunlight" Dedrick said. 
"On the east side of these ad­ditions, there will be alot of glass, and the west side will be open also," Dedrick said. Stu­dents will have the option of dining on either level, Dedrick said. 
In addition to adding dining space, the renovation team is modernizing the serving ca­pacities. In each dining room, a scramble area similar to what exists in South Dining Hall will be constructed. 
"We have to strip everything from the serving areas because it was obsolete. We also had to improve the air systems, electric aJ work, and plumb­ing," Dedrick said. 
As the weather continues to improve, Dedrick said, work will rapidly increase. "As soon as the ground dries out, we can put in the curbs and walkways,'' Dedrick said. The only problem that was encoun­
problems with delivery, but the 
exterior is done now." 
The work at North Dining Hall is presently ahead of schedule, said Dedrick. "All of the work will be done by Octo­ber, but we anticipate that two of the three serving areas and all of the dining areas will be completed by next fall," Dedrick said. 
The renovations at North are extensive, according to Dedrick. "Much of the building and its equipment was ob­solete, and had to be replaced. in addition, we are adding to the existing structure in four different places," said Dedrick. 
On the north and south sides of the building, special dining areas are being added. These will open into the existing rooms on each end and will have wood floors and a fireplace. 
"We hope they will be good party spaces for dorms or sec­tions or clubs," Dedrick said. 
The newest construction un­dertaking is an extension proj­ect for Nieuwland Science Hall. A three-story and basement ad­dition will be operational by 

tered was in the delivery of June of 1989, said Dedrick. Bids limestone for the exterior, for the work will open May 10, Dedrick said. "We had some 1988, and construction should
........,....
.._____....... "'..."·----.. 
COLLEGE GRADUATES­AIM HIGH. 
Get your career off too flying startl Attend Air Force Officer Training School, earn a commission and begin a rewardrng career The Air Force offers you good pay, complete med1cal care and much more Call 
TSGTRANDYRODGERS 317-743-1924 COLLECT 
Ai;; ';.,. 

~~~=~=> 
.._______ ·--~--;r¥n."'!!;;:~ ~ 
begin by this June. 
Dedrick said that the renova­tion would serve to upgrade the facilities for the physics depar­tment and the College of Sci­ence. The basement will house the University's administra­tive computer system. The sys­tem is presently split between the library and the Administra­tion Building. 
According to Dedrick, the first floor will house rooms for physics classes. On the two floors above, the renovations will include offices and labs. Dedrick said that this will allow the space now occupied by clas­srooms and offices to be used for research. 
The extension will not bear the name of any donor or ben­efactor, according to Dedrick. "The source for the funds is in­ternal," Dedrick said. 
The extension to Nieuwland will run paralJel to the existing building, and will not interfere at all with the Clarke War Memorial, according to Dedrick. Also, the cornerstone monument that com­memorates the old Notre Dame fieldhouse will not be moved. 
The only existing facility af­fected by the renovation is the road from the library to the back of LaFortune Student 
Center 

Correction 
Because of an editing error, the following corrections concerning Friday's story 
about commencement tick­ets are necessary. Tickets will be distributed free of charge. They will be avail­able on the fourth floor of the Administration Building beginning May 9. Students who requested zero, one, two, three, or four tickets are eligible. If there are ex­tra tickets, they will be dis­tributed through a lottery system. Seats for viewing the ceremony on closed­circuit television at the Cen­ter for Continuing Education will be available on a first­come, first-serve basis for all guests without tickets. 
Monday, April 11, 1988 



---------------------------------------~-~-------,-----­
Monday, April 11, 1988 The Observer 
page 5 


Office sponsors workshops, intervention plans 
By TAMRYN J. ETTEN tion and answer forum, group coming members of Notre Janss. initial contact made through an News Staff discussion, as well as role Dame's Student Intervention Informal intervention is a answering machine, J anss playing, where audience mem­Team. technique where the team said. 
Three alcohol awareness bers will be asked to partici­The intervention team was member does not meet the per­The alcohol awareness workshops, sponsored by the pate. Current members of formed last spring and cur­son whose drinking behavior is workshops will be run by Bar­Office of Alcohol and Drug Notre Dame's Student Inter­rently has six members trained in question, said Janss. The bara Noser, executive director Education, will address alcohol vention Team will also partic­to provide information to stu­team member simply counsels of the South Bend Alcoholism abuse and intervention, said ipate in role playing, said Helen dents who are concerned about the friend, family member, or Council. David Dannison, the office's Janss, a member of the team. a friend's drinking. "The team spouse on ways of conducting The workshops will be held director. The workshops will also is also available as a resource his own intervention. this Tuesday and April 18 and 
The workshops, which begin serve to recruit and train stu­to perform an informal al­The intervention process will 19 at the Center for Social Con­Tuesday, will include a ques-dents who are interested in be-chohol intervention," said be done anonymously with the cerns from 7 to 9 pm. 
Grad students may get refunds on their taxes 
• 

By JIM LANG required of all candidates for News Staff the degree. When the IRS decided in 1986 
Graduate students who were to include this income in over­assessed back taxes on their all taxable income for 1987 and teaching or research income the years following, it began to for the 1984, 1985 and 1986 assess back taxes on graduate school year are eligible for a student income from as far refund of this money, accor­back as 1984. ding to an Internal Revenue This prompted complaints Service informational release. from graduate students at uni­
Those who were assessed the versities located primarily in tax on income from 1984 must Florida, Iowa, and Indiana, file a form 1040x before April said Kathleen Kolberg, a Notre 15 this year. The others have a Dame graduate student who year to file the amended form. refused to pay the retroactive 
taxes.
$i!S::8 

Prior to the 1986 Tax Reform Graduate students at several Act, teaching and research in­schools, including Indiana Uni­come was not included in tax­versity, complained to their able income if the following senators, who in turn lodged three requirements were met: the complaints with the IRS, 
• The taxpayer was a can­Kolberg said. didate for a degree at an edu­The IRS eventually cational institution. responded to the pressure from 
• The taxpayer performed the senators, and in a March 30 

research, teaching, or other informational release said that Mock convention services for the institiution that it had given instructions to its
The Observer I Jim Carroll 
satisfied the existing degree re­district and service centers 
Mark Bettencourt, a representative for the Mike vention in the Law School. The mock convention 
quirements. concerning the issuance of 
Dukakis campaign, speaks to delegates of mock con-begins today and goes through Thursday. • Equivalent services were refunds. 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY Monday, Aprilll 7:30, Engineering Auditorium Packets will be issued (attendance is required) ADWORKS  

-~-------~------------------------­
Monday, April 11 , 1988

page 6 The Observer 


Ca-vanaugh, Lewis 
By SUSAN MARHEFKA were the most popular, some Staff Reporter exotic ideas included balloons wrapped in garbage bags and 
As large crowds watched oil barrels. from the banks of Saint Mary's "We just did this forty-five Lake, the crafts piloted by minutes ago," said Karla Cavanaugh and Lewis halls Wursthorn, a freshman mem­cruised to victory in Saturday's her of Badin Hall's team, "The second annual Fisher Regatta. Unsinkables." 
The regatta, which was spon-"I needed a cheap way to sored by Fisher Hall, included (make a boat) and ... balloons 20 teams from both on and off-have a lot of buoyancy," campus and was divided into a Wursthorn said. "I used women's and a men's division. physics equations to figure out 

Each hall was permitted to how many balloons we'd enter two teams, ranging from need," she added. four to eight students per boat. Bijilding restrictions included Not all plans were so hastily a maximum length of 16 feet laid, however, as Fisher Hall's and a maximum width of six "Green Seamen" had been feet. The length of the oars been in the planning stages for could be no longer than five feet months. and no parts from a conven-"It took one hour of construe­tional boat could be used. tion, 21 years of creativity," 
An entry fee of $20 was also said Greg Tatum, a senior me-required. chanical engineer who de-
Entrants in the competition signed last year's winning boat showed off their creative and and "The Green Seamen." engineering skills as materials "I used Archimedes' princi­for the. crafts included kiddie pie to build the boat. We went pools, cardboard, styrofoam, with six men this year ... we papier mache, garbage bags needed the extra horsepower," and milk crates. he said. 
Boat designs also ex-While some boats were obvi­emplified some ingenius in-ously built for practicality, sight as teams found numerous others entered the realm of ways to make their entries true ingenuity. One of Holy float. Although inner tubes Cross' creations, "Holy Cross 

cruise to 
Hall Big AI," was complete with flags, oil barrels and a large cardboard pig. St. Ed­ward's "Fire-Brewed Picnic Warriors" included a grill and a cooler. 
The regatta was run in various heats, with three teams competing in each race. Win­ners of each race then com­peted against each other until only two teams remained. 
In the finals for the women's division, Lewis raced with Pasquerilla West and Cavanaugh and Fisher com­peted in the men's division. 
At the conclusion of the regatta, the Fisher Hall Regatta Cup, Ladies' Division, 
. was presented to the victorious Lewis Hall team. The team also received gift certificates, Notre Dame boxer shorts, Fis­her Regatta T -shirts and a cas­sette tape. 
In the men's division, the cup was awarded to Cavanaugh Hall's "A" team, who defeated last year's winners. They also received gift certificates, T-shirts, a cassette tape and an autographed football by Lou Holtz and Tim Brown. 
The award for the "most original and ostentatious design" was given to St. Ed­
200 protest Miss Gay USA pageant . 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--About 200 fundamentalist demonstrators--some wearing surgical masks and others carrying Bibles--showed up at the Indiana Roof Ballroom Sun­day night to protest the 12th an­nual Miss Gay USA pageant. 
Twenty-seven preachers from central lncuana led the peHucm r'lazarene Church in group that objected to the Indianapolis. "There are some pageant, in which 12 finalists red-blooded American men in competed to claim the crown Indianapolis, and we won't as the nation's foremostfemale stand for this." impersonator. 

"If they try this another While the protesters stood time, I'm telling you there's outside the historic building, going to be bloodshed. We some 500 people crossed the mean business," said the Rev. picket line and watched the Gene Hood, pastor of the Inde-pageant without interruption. 

regatta victory 

ward's "Fire-Brewed Picnic Warriors." 
The judges for the event were Tom Morris. professor of phi­losophy; Ted Gradel, a former Notre Dame football player, and Jeff Jeffers, asportscaster for WNDU. 
"It was a last-minute deci­sion," said Michelle Fretter, a freshman on Lewis' "It Just Doesn't Matter." · 
"We went out to have fun; we didn't expect to win," said Cara Anthony, another fresh­man Lewis team member. 
Proceeds from the regatta go to the Andre House of Hospitality in Phoenix, Arizona, a house for the home­less run by the Holy Cross com­munity. The house is a Fisher Hall project. 
The Fisher Regatta cul­
minates "Fred and Sally 
Week" at Fisher Hall, the an­
nual spirit week named for the 
hall's benefactors. 

Bogus baccalaureate 
Rector of Sorin Hall, Joe McKenna, hands a diploma to graduate student Chris Kvochak at the hall's traditional graduation in Sacred Heart Church. Emil Hofman, honorary graduate and Lou Holtz, commencement speaker, grin in the background. 



Input 
continued from page 1 
Paese. 
A timetable for the plan was not presented, but Paese said he would like to see hall meetings start "seven to 10 days after the students receive the reports." Paese also said that An Tostal and the ap­proach of finals made it urgent to gather student input. 
Megan Hanley, president of Pasquerilla West, expressed skepticism about student response to the task force reports. "I know the average student in my hall won't be reading these reports," said Hanley. Paese disagreed, saying "at a university, I think we should expect everyone to have read the reports." 
Some student government members were unsure that stu­dents really were being given input to the administration's decision process. "How much is our input actually affecting the decision making?" asked Hanley. 
"I seriously question whe­
ther they nne aamrn1strat1onJ 
take us seriously because of the 
timing of the report," said 
Scott Miller, co-president of 
Grace Hall. "They didn't give 
us enough time to respond. I 
have a feeling that they know 
that. 
Miller also added that he felt 
the administration was making 
decisions about the task force 
recommendations over the 
summer purposely to exclude students from influencing those decisions. 

Others said they had more faith in the administration's desire for student input. Doyle said that in a previous meeting with Malloy, that he "was in­terested in getting student response." He also said that, if the administration did not want student response, it would have released the reports over the summer. 
"I believe that the absolute worst message we cound send is a silent message," said Doyle. Paese said that the num­ber of students named to the task force committees showed the administration's commit­ment to student input. 
Melissa Smith, student gov­ernment coordinator for the task force response, said that questions about student input were "why we're attempting this huge undertaking.... With this we can say 'the entire student body feels this way,' and that's why were trying to 
tap  every  single  student  on  
campus."  
Doyle  said  the  task  force  

. re rts would "affect student 
life probably as much as anyth­ing we'll see while we're here at Notre Dame." Doyle likened the situation to a simple equation. "It's the Notre Dame task force reports plus the stu­dent response, and what that will end up equalling is ul­timately the administrations' decisions." 
The Anaerobic Mitochondrion: An Enigma 
Theodore M. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

-THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE­
DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Presents 
PROFESSOR HOWARD J. SAZ 




Attention Sophomores 
Place your ring order before you leave for SUMMER VACATION. This will 
assure you of having it when you return to school in the fall. 
HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. 
Monday -Friday 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMES NOmE DAME BOOKSTORE 





Viewpoint
Monday, April 11, 1988 

a e 7 
Task force issues not crux of problem
The president of our esteemed Uni-secularized world. By discussing whe­a leading university in the United 1970s, when merger talks were unsuc­versity has seen fit to distribute ther dormitories can buy alcohol for States, such a report is just inadequate. cessful. 
thousands of copies of the latest Notre SYRs or should housing for women fac­Dame Report. Encouraging our own ulty and administrators be available on reactions to the four task force reports campus we are cheapening our aspira­inside, Father Malloy tells us to "kindly tions and denying the Notre Dame faro­direct your comments to the person to ily the breath of vision Father Res­whom the report was made." I have burgh fought so desperately to instill. decided instead to address my com-The recommendations offered are ments as an open letter to the Notre nice and some probably should even be Dame community. adopted. But to focus the debate on 
--------=---------campus on these task force reports is Rob Hennig to sap valuable University attention on what Notre Dame really needs. None
t l

gues CO umn of the reports displays anything more The real question is not what can be 
done to improve teaching. The real 
question is "How can Notre Dame 
move to the forefront of higher educa­
tion in America?" We are cheating our­
selves and future members of this com­
munity by not coming to grips with this vital question. 
With the new fundraising campaign, we have the potential to make a major move in the desired direction. By set­ting our sights so low, we are squan­dering what may be a unique opportu­nity that will never happen again. 
So, after much careful reflection, I have come up with my own recommen­dations that come to grips with the real issues: 
First, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College cannot afford our present sit­uation indefinitely. Our present "en­gagement" status cannot continue to serve the best interests of this commu­nity. I believe a merger is not only in­evitable but necessary. Such a move would open tremendous opportunities for the University and is also in the long-term interests of Saint Mary's. The number of all-female colleges in the United States is dwindling yearly. It is doubtful whether Saint Mary's could survive without the present ar­rangement with Notre Dame. It is fur­ther doubtful whether Sa:int Mary's can survive in the future even with present cooperative ties. This remains even 

No doubt much will be said about 
these reports, and more feedback than 
Father Malloy could hope to read will 
be generated. And that is the great 
shame of it all. For, in forcing the Uni­
versity to consider the issues of "Mar­
riage, Family and Other Life commit­
ments," "Whole Health and the Use 
and Abuse of Alcohol," "The Quality of 
Teaching in a Research University," 
and "Residentiality," Fathers Malloy 
and Tyson and Provost O'Meara have 
drastically altered the quality of debate 
that is occurring at the highest echelons 
of our University. 
If the Hesburgh legacy is to mean 
anything, it is that Notre Dame should 
set its sights on as high a level as pos­
sible. These four reports deal with is­
sues, though important, that do not get 
to the heart of the issue of what it means 
to be a major Catholic university in an 
increasingly competitive and than a superficial understanding of the University or its problems. 

Maybe a year is too short to properly assess the problematic issues inherent in our present structures. More ac­curately, maybe the topics were poorly chosen. It seems to me that three aspects of Notre Dame should be ad­dressed: the educational, spiritual, and social life of the University. That the four reports inadequately cover these three areas is problematic. What we get is a hodgepodge series of recom­mendations instead of a comprehensive and integrated plan upon which to build. 
Nowhere is this more true than in the report on "Teaching in a Research Uni­versity." Such a report first assumes Notre Dame is a research university. To say so is, in my opinion, highly dubious. But moreover, all of the recommendations are just piecemeal. 
If it is truly the goal of the Notre Dame family to make this University 
Ooonesbury 

THE ~&&M: f((}IAJ 70 6I3T TH/3 IAJORJ) OlJT THAT~ 8U5H tuAS NOVJ H/5 OIAJN MAN. 
Ihe Observer 
more true now than it was in the early nist. 
P.O. Box Q j 
Britain also has executions 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to add a point of clarifica­tion to the recent letter of Michael E. Lee of April 6. 
The United Kingdom is one other NATO Alliance country that still ex­ecutes people. These executions have been perpetrated by members of the Royal Ulster Constabulary in Northern Ireland (the so-called "shoot-to-kill" policy) and, more recently, by British soldiers in Gibraltar. However repug­nant the death penalty might be, at least those executed in the United 
Garry Trudeau 

~~~~-' 
MUCH Y&S, EJE.T­5/R. TER. 
\ I 

Editorial Board 
Second, Notre Dame must increase 
the number of graduate students and 
faculty. A major university is judged 
on the quality of its graduate programs 
and on the quality of its faculty. If we 
ignore this reality, we do so at our peril. 
Since 1978, according to the task force report on teaching, the number of graduate students has increased by less than 100. An encouraging sign is that faculty size has increased by almost 100 as well since 1978. If Notre Dame wants to truly play in the big leagues, both the graduate student population and the faculty size must increase dramatically from their present num­bers. 
Third, Notre Dame must develop a comprehensive building program. This is no time for an architecture lesson, but we need a coherent Master Plan for the campus. If one exists that we are presently using, I apologize. I am just not aware of it. My own solution is to fill in Saint Joseph's Lake. One lake is enough, and besides, this would allow for living up to our legal name of " ... Notre Dame du Lac." 
These are all tongue-in-cheek recom­mendations, probably doomed to cries of outrage. So be it. The point is to raise the level of discussion above what the task forces have seen fit to say. We owe at least that much to ourselves, each other, and the future of Notre Dame. 
Rob Henning is a junior economics major and a regular Viewpoint colum­

States are convicted and sentenced by a court of law. 
Hugh McManus Off-campus April 7, 1988 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year In VIewpoint. Join the growing number of peo­
ple  who  feel  t h e I r  
opinions  do  make  a  
difference.  Write  to  P.0.  

Box Q, Viewpoint De­partment, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

Quote of the Day 
"Happiness is not a reward-it is a conse­quence. Suffering Is not a punishment-it Is a result." 
Robert Green Ingersoll 
Operations Board 

Editor-In-Chief ........................... .............. Chris Murphy 
Buslneu Manager .................................. John~ 
Managing Editor ..................................Chris Donnelly News Editor .............................. , .............. Regis Coccia
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 AdvertJslng Design Manager ................... Moly Killin 
Advertielng Manager .................... Undl OGidKhnldr News Editor .............................. ........ Mtllk MclJiughlln 
Produclkln Manager .................... -....,_... SNil Viewpoint Editor .................................... Man Slaughter
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of S)IBiems Manager .............................. u.rk ~ Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Conltoller ............................................ Todd ~
Spotfa Editor .......................................... Marty Str..-, the administration of e1ther institution. The News is reporllld as accurately and objectively as Graphic Arts Manager ............. , .............. Mergll an..
Accent Editor ..............................................Beth Healy posSible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .............................Sendy Cerlmele Commentaries, leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Pholo Editor .........................................Michael Morin is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners, is encouraged. 
--------------------------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­





Accent
page 8 


ANN L. SEIFERT accent writer 
W
ell, they've done it again. Steve Kilbey, Marty Willson-Piper, Peter Koppes, and Richard Ploog, just four guys from Australia, have released an album which rises above all others. Starfish is the name of this LP, the sixth from these guys who call themselves The Church. 
The neat thing about this group is that it is like no other. The haunting yet hopeful vo­cals of Steven Kilbey are ab­solutely unique and the guitars are equally impossible to em­ulate. You know how you can immediately identify a U2 song because of The Edge's guitar? Well, the same thing happens with The Church, only the guitarists are Willson-Piper and Koppes. This group has had the same lineup since 1982, and their five years of experi­ence together certainly is evi­dent on Starfish. 

The first cut, "Destination," is like a roller coaster as it dips and soars and carries the lis­tener right along. The first single is titled "Under the Milky Way," and it is typical of the album as a whole. Nearly five minutes long, the single is carried by a strong bass from Kilbey, as he sings: "I wish I knew what you were looking fmi Might I know what you would find' Under the Milky Way tonight." t1ear it once, and you'll be singing the chorus to yourself two hours later; it's that kind of song. 
The Church is truly a group of musical artists, a refreshing change from the synthesized pop stuff the music world is currently saturated with. Their lyrics are sometimes sad and always thought provoking. Kit-
Monday, April 11, 1988 
Bands battle Cystic Fibrosis with music 
MATTHEW SPATZ accent writer 
T
o raise money to help fight Cystic Fibrosis, a group of students have gathered to bring The Great Escape '88 to Notre Dame. Friday from 6 p.m. to 3 a.m. at Stepan Cen­ter, almost a dozen bands representing almost as many different musical styles will par­ticipate in a band jam. 
Students can purchase tick­ets for $5 at the door, and dorm representatives will also be selling tickets door-to-door. All proceeds will go to fight the Cystic Fibrosis disease. 
Sophomore Dave Temeles heads the project with a dedi­cated group of students. On the national scale, the project is called Goal Unlimited, a group which works to raise money for CF by running events like 1 2 hour dance­a-thons. The Great Escape '88 is a "spin-off of a dance-a-thon fundraiser my high school sponsored," said Temeles, whose Bishop O'Connell t1igh School in Virginia was one of the first to hold the 'Super­dance' I I years ago. 
By kicking off the band jam concept, Temeles hopes to "teach universities to do the band thing." There is already a program to teach high schools how to hold the I 2 hour dance-a-thons. They are now organizing a similar corres­pondence with other univer­sities and hope that The Great Escape will become a yearly happening at colleges across the country. 
The campus bands appearing at Notre Dame this year are Zito and the t1eat-ons, The Groove, Deadhorse, Eut­hanasia, and Catholics in Bad Standing. These groups alone represent many different styles of music including funk, dance, pop, and progressive. Four other bands appear including Sergeant Friday (from Wiscon­sin), Material Issue (from Evansville, Indiana), and two bands from Purdue: Toxic Gypsy and Elixir. 
In addition to the styles of­fered by the campus bands, Elixir offers a dimension of harder rock sounds. Material Issue, with a '60s pop sound is presently touring the East Coast and is rapidly becoming known as one of the better bands on the college scene. 
In planning the event, the group met every Thursday this 
semester. They proposed the 
concept to Student Govern­
ment, who were helpful and 
supportive. Since they receive 
all funding from the Cystic 

Fibrosis Foundation, the group 
learned how difficult it can be 
working with a bureaucracy. 

Temeles said it has been a learning process. "We made a lot of little mistakes. We wanted to get some CF patients to some Notre Dame masses so the students could see who they were helping," said Temeles. "We also wanted to sign a headline act. But that 
just didn't work out." The 
group made adjustments as 
they progressed to find better 
ways of organizing. 

Overall, Temeles feels that the group has been successful. This year, they wanted to es­tablish the event as an annual fundraiser. Temeles hopes that, because they worked so hard and made mistakes this year, "Next year, the people who are running it will know about what to expect. Also, Notre Dame is a good place to have the first Great Escape be­cause the people here care. Notre Dame is the starting point for this whole thing," Temeles said. Temeles hopes that next year the band jam will be more of a nationwide event, where colleges around the country will sponsor similar functions. 
Temeles said the biggest challenge will be getting the students to go to the band jam. "It will be a good time, and the money goes to saving lives. CF affects people our own age. It's not some distant thing." he said. If the spirit is good among the students at Notre Dame, it will transfer to the program on a national scale. 
Temeles also thanks the many people who have worked hard organizing and planning the event. If students are inter­ested in learning more about Cystic Fibrosis and how they can help fight it, they can call Dave Temeles at 283-1851, Pete Pucillo ·at 283-1422, or Quvi Ryan at 271-9142. Others are urged strongly to come and support this great cause· 
Since the band jam is nine hours long, students can come and go as they please. There will also be volleyball nets set up and prizes from various local donators. 
deserves devotion 
bey and Willson-Piper are re­Church is well worth your sponsible for almost all of the money, and now Kilbey and songs, and the latter sings lead Willson-Piper have solo albums vocals on "Spark," an upbeat out. rocker of a song. By contrast, "Lost" is composed of many It's weird that this new album intricate guitar riffs which blend probably marks the first time together beautifully. most people have heard of The 
Church. They are already num­
The Church will be on a ber one in Australia, along with spring tour of the U.S. shortly, Midnight Oil, another tremen­and they are now recording for dous Australian group poised Arista Records, their fifth label for the big crossover into the in six albums. Live, the band is United States. These groups louder and faster than on their have already fully established vinyl releases, but their 1986 themselves in the college and summer concert remains right pro!!ressive music worlds, now up there on my all-time favorite let tfiem enter yours! Don't skip concert list. Anything by The The Church. 

Monday, April 11, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
Whalers stay alive
. 

·­
The Kentucky football team has accepted the apology offered by former Gov. A.B. "happy" Chandler for a racial slur he used saym·g Chandler "wanted to hurt no one 'by his unfortunate remark", head coach Jerry Claiborne said Saturday. "Governor Chandler's record speaks for itself over the years," Claiborne said in a statement. The football team had boycotted Thursday's practice_ and w~rn bla.:k wristbands upon resummg spr1t1g drills Friday. -Associated Press 
The ND lacrosse team defeated Kenyon 7-6 in overtime Saturday. John Olmstead scored an unassisted goal in the second period of sudden death to give the Irish the road win. Notre Dame is off to its best start ever with an 8-1 record. Fur­ther details will appear in tomorrow's issue of The Observer. -The Observer 
An Tostal Water Polo tournament sign-ups will be Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Corby room at LaFortune. There will be a 32-team limit. Teams must pay a $5 registration fee. Any questions should be directed to Barb at 289-5920.-The Observer 
Irish Spring Runs are scheduled for Saturday, April 16, at 11 a.m. Paricipants can pay a $4 registration fee at the NVA office or can pay $5 the day of the event. -The Observer 
The women's rugby team will have practice on Tuesday, April 12, at 
p.m. at the Loftus Center. Any questions should be directed to Lauren at x3560 or Kathy at x4067. The women's rugby team also is looking for someone to help coach the team. Anyone interested in helping co­ach the team who has playing or coaching experience also should call Lauren at x3560 or Kathy at x4067. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
The Hartford Whalers stayed alive with a clutch victory over the Montreal Canadiens, but four other teams moved to the verge of elimination Sunday night in the Stanley Cup playoffs. 
Mter losing the first three games of their best-of -seven Adams Division semifinal, the Whalers scored five goals in the final period for a dramatic 7-5 victory over the Canadiens in one of eight first-round games Sunday night. 
The result sent the series back to Montreal for Game 5 Tuesday night with the Canadiens holding a 3-1 lead. 
Meanwhile, Toronto, Chicago, Washington and Win­nipeg all lost and went down 3-1 in their respective series. 
Detroit beat Toronto 8-0; St. Louis stopped Chicago 6-5; Philadelphia defeated Wash­ington 5-4 in overtime and Ed­monton trimmed Winnipeg 5-3. 
In other action, it was Buffalo 6, Boston 5 in overtime and the New York Islanders 5, New Jer­sey 4 in overtime. 
Calgary played at Los An­geles in a late Smythe Division game. 
Whalers 7, Canadlens 5 
Kevin Dineen led Hartford with two goals as the Whalers outshot the Canadiens 17-12 in the final period and 43-31 in the game. 
Defenseman Dave Babych also had two goals, one in the third-period outburst, and added an assist for the Whalers, who ended a seven­game playoff losing streak. 
n.a...-Notre Dame office, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu­cMnt Centw, 8DCIIP'-clualfled .twertlting from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Fftdar. n.a...-Saint Mwy'a office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thfOugll Fftdar. Deldllne for next-4ay claaalfledsls3 p.m. All claaalfleds musl
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge 11 10 cents per live ctlwKtenl per !SQ. 
Ann-Marie. guess what appeared in the
FOUND: High School Class Ring IBM POXT Model 086 An Aparlhied lnlormation Night will be Amy--the sunglasses are in peril
personals about this time last year? I(girt's) In Rockne Memorial Locker 10Mb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and held on Monday, April 11 at 8:30pm in thought you might be missing your name 
room. Call 239-6321. Quadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 P.E.'s party room. All are inv~edl
NOTICES 

in the personals so these are for you. WANDA THE FISH 
................................................................ price includes DOS 2.1, documentatton, 
Wishes to thank CRAZY BOB lor a whale AST SuperPak utilities and StdeKtck. L:ive····ac:····;;ofi....s.uMMe·Fi···:rufiri:e
LOST I of an SYR. (Even if she did get left behind 

Hewlett-Packard 15C DOS 3.2. Notebook II. PFS:Rie. LOGO CREEK APT FOR RENT BELOW COST 
...) MARISSA'S TYPING ffl-2724 NIGHT; 
Ml around 5:15 and other software packages also avatl­AND FURNISHEDII CALL CHRIS 272-SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 3rd floor Fitz. able. For more inlormation, call Mike 8689 $3250 lor 13 Weeka (S250Wk).
277-1051 DAY. 

please call 1342 Krager at 239-7248 weekdays lrom 8 For more Information, come to Inter­
................................................................ RUN JESSE RUNI RUN JESSE RUNI 
view on Wednasday, April 13th In 1he
a.m. to 5 p.m. Career and Placement Services Bldg.
TYPING AVAILABLE EE Banquet WIN JESSE WIN I MOCK CONVENTION 
287-4082 ( aka Brownie point Fest ) DELEGATES -VOTE FOR JESSE JACK­
(Hesburgh Library) at 10:00, 12:00,
• Tues.. April 12 SON ON APRIL 13! FOR MORE INFO'82 Honda Nighthawk 650, EXCELLENT 2:00, 4:00 or 6:00. Positions available
................................................................ condition $1000. Call271-0439, Laura or • Tix available in ECE office for $&Stud CALL JOHN X1531 
In Ohio, Indiana and Michigan.
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL and $121aculty . ................................................................
Jeff. 
................................................................
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. ' All student, faculty, and staff gEEks SMC-ND SUMMER ROME PROGRAM 
Need summer worl<? Apply In person.
................................................................ FOR RENT FOR SALE: A pair of Nordica ski boots, invited. JUNE 12-JULY 11. TRAVEL IN 
Godhlther PizZa, 52920 U.S. 31 North.
Professors and grad-students: Pandora's size B. Call Jenn at 2975. FRANCE,GER, SWITZ & ITALY . will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to F"ofi..sA"L:ii;·;;·;;~;;·~i·t:i~;;;;~·~k;··.;;;;;;·~: COURSES IN ITALIAN,HIST,SOC 
make an appointment. 1 D-5:30 7 Chevy Impala. X3282--Steve AVAILABLE. MAY 18 DEADLINE.FOR 
size B. Call Jenn at 2975.
day&Week FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL. MOCK NATIONAL CONVENTION INFO CALL T.J. AT 2053 OR DR.
................................................................ 
................................................................ LARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH 83 Honda Civic great condition 49K miles COMING APRIL 11-14 BLACK AT 284-4480 OR 272-3726. 
SENIORS: Moving to So. Cal. for a per­
WORDePLUS LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK, only. Call 288-2642 BE A PART OF rr ALLfff manent job? Call me if you need a room­
Scholastic Typin~diling CARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI­MORT DOWNEY Jr supports THE 
mate. Jim 1912.
256-3077 ANCES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS PHILDO for UMOC AND BRIDGET'S. FURNISHED OR UN­
:iii.Nioiis:······:i·uliio'Fis:··..··:iuti.iolis·,
FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA­2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID CALL 237·1949 FOR YOUR TION CALL 277-7360 DAYS OR 272-288-0955
LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT THE NICE ROOM TO SUBLEASE FOR THE 
PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY SUMMER JUNE-AUGUST 31WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. 6181 EVENINGS. 
TICKETS 
PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND KITCHEN,BATHROOM,LIVING
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­
HAve····suCCESSFUL····2N·o····iNTER·-PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE ROOM.TV,ETC $125. CALL 288­
BORHOOD 288-0955255-3684 viEw? Rent Chgo 1 br apt! Big enul TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M. IN ROOM 123 
7929.VOLKER 

NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL Hdwd !Irs, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clsts, MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT­son; Located at Ironwood and Edison; 
to share. Sunny vintage ctyd bldg. Summer Rental; 2 Bd.; $1721no. per per­
I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­Greet Location near campus. Large TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR brick home. Room lor 6 students. 2 BRIAN baths. Ready lor Fall occupancy. 
bam! storage, lndry. t--2 blk to Lk Shr TEND. call 271-0559. 
Or, bus, 2 blk to L tm, Wrlg, Fld. $650
LOST/FOUND :iuNioiis:····...j.liliioFis."······:iuti·,c;lis·, 
$66Gtno. plus u1111tles. 232-2366. NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TICKETS CALL 
Incl. ht. Moat Chgo leases renew S'l, 7 BEDROOM FURNISHED 
so cell eartyl 312-871-3397 (ND'BO). LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT THE HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYS. KAREN £2879 OR ERIC AT 232-1399 
PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY TEM.SUMMER OR FALL 272-8306
liiC"f:.....i="iiliti.lsii.Eo····s·····aEofiooi.i AM, what exactly were you doing tn
PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
................................................................ 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 GRADUA­PLACEMENT the a.m. on Saturday night alter the
HOUSE, t--2 MILE NORTH OF NO. SERVICES OFFICE NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TOFOUND: I found a pair of prescripbon 
TION TICKETS! I WILL PAY BIG $$ TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M. IN ROOM 123 SYR.
GOOD AREA. 287~9. ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEARglasses in the student parking lot by the FOR THEM. CALL TIM 4ooo IF YOU NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL
stadium (d1 ?). They wer~ grayish-black 6838889
HAVE EXTRA TICKETS. MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT­You're so /ushious 
and bifocals. Call Scott 1189. P.S. you Room lor 4 students. Near campus. TEND.
left them on the hood of my car ND Movers Neede for New Student Or­
Family won'tlet me Graduate unless they It's just a joke,Ready lor Fall occupancy. $44Gtno.
............................................................. ientation at Saint Mary's. Wanted all
can all see it. Please help mell Call Jeff for some, You know who Found: A poem credited to nm Rice en­Guys interested in coming back ea~y to
plus utilities. 232-2366. 
1246
................................................................ uglyness is
titled "Nobody's Side". I picked up a help move in new students. Chance to 
3 BD. HOUSE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS a state of mind ... 
xeroxed copy of it in Riley Hall over two meet new people. Will have to be back oA"Fi.H"ouse:·c-oto.&ee:Fi·a:·t:ialiofl.
FOR FALL '88. CALL 289-6539. for nan. 
years ago. II anyone has any information on Wednesday. August 17. For more in­
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE leading to the poet in question, contact formation contact Cathy Burke at 284­
ugliness is 

BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. me immediately; I've written music to ac­5051. 
a brutal reality ... 
PERSONALS 
nan sauer for UMOC ... 
company the lyric and desire permission ................................................................ c:c;e·ii··a·ic:v·c:i:"E··;:oiiliS:CoL:oii:Aoo 
to record it in a studio this summer. Call Theology Forum Members: Tomorrow 
ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF­320<v.l206 and ask for Jeff. Dear Smitten, April 12 at 10:00 p.m. In St. Edwards
WANTED 

TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­Thanks for a terrific time Saturday. The Hell Prof. Marl< Searle will speak on 
LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. 
COKE IS IT
j:i~ip·i·i··i;;~i··~··;;i~;;;··;:o.··-.;;;-ld~~-~~-·t:i. 

SYR was great and Chicago was a lot ''The Whet and the Why of Liturgical 
................................................................ 
dining hall or O'Shag Wed. Before 

of fun. Studlea". YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­Easter. Contained 1.0. • Detex, Bank SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS I'm suprised you didn't suffer a heart ................................................................ bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College Card. Drivers' liscense. and cash. I don't Counselors, 21 plus, Coed. sleepaway attack from having to deal w~h the both SUMMER JOBS FOR THE ENVIRON­P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
--··-··-····-·············-······· 
care about the cash. If found, Please call camp. Massachusetts Berkshires. WSI, MENT SOMEBODY PLEASE DATE RAPE ME 
of us for a whole day. Confidentiality Guaranteed. 4515 or return to 740 P.E. It's important. arts & crafts. tennis. all land and water EARN $2500-$3500-0PIRGs hiring Iff 
................................................................ 
sports, gymnastics, drama, piane>illay for summer ahlll In 60 cttlea Students: Sell your unwanted class
i:os:r:··..se.ii3·E:····;Fi·isii·····c:;;8i:e.a<N.ii-shows, judo, photography. dance, com­Thanks again, 
-CD Including Boston, DC, Chicago, books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 swEATER IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON puters, nature. wilderness, model rock­Berl<eley, Boulder, Phlledelphta, Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week P.S.: Happy birthday (oops ...I couldn't 
326. CALL 277-2142. etry, gu~ar. radio. video. archery, year­Seattle. Aide needed to Chicago (Mi.:l...ay). Fri 233-2342
book. woodworking, RN and typist. Write: help it. It just wouldn't be a Stanton per­
Career opportunltlea also available. April 15 cali Chris x4544 ................................................................
i:os:r:·aEiG:E..PAnifiN"Eo.ueFiei:i:A Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd. sonal w~hout it) Call Kate at 1-800-622-2202. 
SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE! Apr. 15-17. 
WITH DARK WOOD HANDLE. LOST Eastchester, NY 10707 or call Always remember: SO MANY MEN SO Baby, You Can Drive My Car­
Used Books 5D-90% off. New books 30% SOMETIME THE WEEK BEFORE 91417799406. UTILE TIMEIII Rose Pietrzak 
off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off ND 
EASTER BREAK, PROBABLY SOME­................................................................ 2""R"oo"Ms"'.A:iiA'iCiiei:.e··f.'a·R··FieNT..IN 
Ave. 10-5:30 7 days/ week. 233-2342
WAITRESSES & WAITERS NEEDED CHICAGO --ROGERS PARK AREA TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL Flexible hours The Dock: 616-699-7466. $200 PER MONTH FOR MORE INFO 
WHERE IN O"SHAG. GREAT SEN­................................................................ 
CABOOSE 

ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st LAUREN x3560 IF FOUND. CALL £284-4351. THAT WAS THE FUNNIEST THING 
Source Bank will finance your car pur­
j;i:eAsii.sel:l:t.ie.i3FiAoiii;rioN.rici<-
SEMNtOR r..1HMAL TICKET FOR YOU EVER DID. 
chase For more information call Ellen
ETs. $$BUCKS INVOLVED$$! CALL :;···se.ofiooM···;;·..6;;:rH···APARrM'ENr
SALE WE ARE AMERICA'S STRANGEST 
Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 CORONA KEYCHAIN & KEYS LOST AT ................................................................ 
MARC AT 288-7105 My date was killed by terrorists, so he FOR SUMMER SUB-LEASE, NEW COUPLE. can't go ... Will take Best Offer, Call Diane COMPLEX,POOL $500 FURNISHED. SCZHETZLE
SENIOR BAR OR BRIDGET'S I Berlles Imports BMWt.1AZD.ANW All
SENIORS -Need roommate in New York 
271-0205 NEED MONEY ?? IRISH GARDENS IS
THINK ...... PLEASE CALL PATIY AT JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends 
-City this summer Call Lindsay -2927 NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR
283-2807 IF FOUNDIIIIIII April 30th 
................................................................ ANTOSTAL, INNERTUBE WATER­WORKERS FOR THE -Tiie.Nor.iie·o;;t.i·E·;;(i;;i"j;()t:i.sauAo·.
1988-1989 STUDENT SALES REP WANTED FOR POLO TOURNAMENT! Finally, It's back I SCHOOL YEAR. ANYONE INTER· FORMERLY THE DANCIN" IRISH. 
................................................................ 

BLUE NOTRE DAME WALLET LOST SUMMER JOBS 
THE FALL SEMESTER 

Sign Your team up tuesday at 7:00pm in ESTED CAN PICK UP APPLICATIONS WANTS YOU! AN ORGANIZATIONAl Opportunity available lor an en1husl­
ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. I LOST MY ALL LANIVNATER SPORTS 
the Corby Room. AT IG FROM 12:30-5:30. ALL APPLI· MEETING WILL BE HELD WEDNES· aattc person to marl<et sllkscreaned
IDS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK 
CANTS MUST BE ON WORK STUDY. DAY, APRIL 13 FROM 6-7 IN THE oU1erwt111r and o1her products. 3.014 •• SPECIAL NOTICE •• NOTRE ROOM 2ND 
CLARE AT 283-2758 THANKSI MOUNTAINS 
................................................................ DAME ON Fl. 
CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­GPA required. Only freshman and The NOOMC Ballroom Dance Club will LAURIE, A BIG NOSE ALONE DOES LAFORTUNE. ALL NOOMC GIRLS IN­INGS 914-3614224 
LOST a steelblue (blackish) and gold sophomores need apply. Very 

be meeting tonight in gym 4 of the ACC. NOT A GODDESS MAKEI TERESTED IN TRYING OUT ARE WEl­desirable Income. Greek a plus. Con-
bead bracelet somewhere between the 

Enter at Gate 3. COMEROTC and Aerospace and Engineering 
buildings about two weeks ago. It was a 1act CAMPUS SPECIALTIES at 815-This is the LAST meeting of the year so Fici<i.:e··;;et.iAiiS"."..we··:w;cc··cE;;:iiN ..oi="F.cA"i.i.Pu"S"iioiisEs··;;c;ii··ii"ENr·
758-4895 (anytime). all be sure to attendl HOW TO PLAY MCREES QUARTERS TAMPA:s..rof."riiN···;·)··.:n:iiiR"E:s··N·o
gift lrom my boyfriend and has extreme '88-'69 SCHOOL YEAR 
sentimental value. If found PLEASE have Close to campus and Inexpensive.
AS SOON AS YOU LEARN HOW TO SLOWIN' US DOWN" 2) "YOU B----1 
DRINK! WE ARE TIRED OF PARTYING YOU NEVER EVEN PAGED MY 6~~k·i~;·~·;~j~;~-~~9aii~;;;~~i:r;;~·ifiisii WITH "NURSING" MAJORS! STUDS. FRIENDS!" 3) "I DIDN'T GET KICKED Notre Dame Bedrooms 
a heart and call 283-2660. REWARD. 919 SoU1h Bend Ave-4 Bedrooms 823 
................................................................ Ave-8 814 
SPRING RUN Three and six mile runs OUT; I WAS JUST ASKED TO LEAVE."
Found: one Marriage and Family text and Corby Blvd-6 Bedrooms 702 St. Louls­one beginning ~alian text near Juniper 4 Bedrooms 717 St. Louls-5 Bedroom•
this Saturday at 11 :00. Sign up at the Harry from Carroll 4) 'WE HAVE TO DO SOMETHING
FOR SALE 

NVA office to participate. Thanks for a great time on Saturday ABOUT THESE SLEEPIIJG ARRANGE­
-
and Howard Sts. over Easter break. Call 733 St. Louts~ Bedrooms 734 St. Kathy 277-2944 Louls-5 Bedrooms 801 St. Loule-8
night. Maybe I should make a habit out MENTS." 5) Bernardo Arroyo: feliz cumpleanos, te of getting walked home from parties by "SHUBADAHUMANAHUMANA..." 6) Bedrooms CALL LAURA AT 28~21 
desean, El Clan Latino. Gracias por los strangers. if I knew things would work "PETA, PETA LOOK GATA, GATA." 7)GOV'T SEIZED HOMES $1.110. 
pasados 7 meses. te quiero mucho. out as well they did this time. Chivalry is "SO DEGREES? SO WHAT? LET'S GOFOUND--65 Glove&Mittens at lost and 
(U Repair) BUY Properties lor back TAXES!
Found--Also many Glove and Mitten (mi)2. not dead and maybe I should meet some SWIMMING." B) "IT COSTS $260 TO Feoe.FiA"t::··;;;:A:;:e··;;··c:iY:iL:..se.Fiv.rce 
more Vermin! RENT A CAR SO I BOUGHT ONE." 9) 
Pairs; Scarfs Tool! Claim today. 110 Joba $18,4 to $69,881. lmrnedlahl
Info, REPO Ua11ng 1-518-459-3548 
SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or C from Lyons 'WHERE'S...THE OTHER PETE?" 10)
LaFortune Hall openlngal cell JOB UNE 1-5111-459­
EXT H-794 24 Hrs. 
B.MILLER PO 665 ND IN "LET'S GO ROOOOONNNN." 
3611 Ext. F 794, 24hr. 

L._________________________ ~ ~-~--­

The Observer page 11 
en's tennis splits weekend action at S. Illinois 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team travelled to Carbon­dale, Ill. this weekend where it competed in the Southern Illi­nois Invitational. The teams competeing in the quadran­gular were Notre Dame, Bradley, Louisville and SIU­Carbondale. 
Saturday morning the Irish destroyed Louisville, 6-0. The Cardinals were severely over­matched, managing to win only 
Young Texas squad takes swim titles 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Texas Co­ach Eddie Reese has his second NCAA men's Division I swim­ming and diving championship with the potential for a dynasty. 
A squad dominated by under­classmen wrapped up the team title Saturday, giving the school a rare sweep of both the men's and women's champion­ships in 1988. 
"We came to swim and the way we get our excitement is to swim fast," said Reese, whose team's have finished third or higher in the meet eight of the past nine years and fifth in the other year. 
"Our goal will be to go back and try to get better" said Reese, who had three seniors, nine sophomores and three freshmen among the 17 swim­mers he brought to the meet. "Nobody can start a dynasty in this country. All you have to do is get up there and somebody 
The Center of Social Concerns presents: 
Monday, April 11th 
CESAR CHAVEZ* 

"The Wrath of Grapes boycott." The nationally known president of the United Farm Workers speaks on the attempt to free farm workers and consumers from the threat of pesticides. 
8:00P.M. at the Center for Social Concerns Reception following. 
* Cesar Chavez's presentation is co-sponsored by: The Center for Social Concerns, ND Student Government, ND Minority Concerns, SMC Campus Ministry, ND Minority Student Affairs, ND Campus Ministry, St. Mary's Peacemakers, The Institute for International Peace Studies, and the Kellogg Institute. 
two sets. 

Notre Dame was once again led by the stellar play of cap­tain Mike Wall ace and junior Brian Kalbas. Kalbas started out slowly but eventually took control of his singles match. Kalbas defeated Scott Hill of Louisville 1-6, 7-6, 6-4. Wallace trounced David Rueff 6-1, 6-3. 
In other singles action against Louisville Ryan Wenger beat John Meade 1-6, 6-4, 7-6. Dan Walsh and Paul Odland won in straight sets, defeating Mike Mehlbauer and 
want you." 

Texas recorded 424 points in the three-day meet that ended Saturday--the most by a team since Indiana won the second of a record six consecutive titles with 427 points in 1969. 
Southern California, the fa­vorite, was second with 369 112 points. Stanford, which was seeking a fourth straight cham­pionship, was third with 275 112 points. 
"This team is younger. They worked harder as a group," said Reese in comparing this year's champions with the squad that won the title in 1981. "The thing that surprised me most about them is that they're tougher than the '81 team." 
Sophomores Kirk Stackle and Doug Gjertsen gave the Longhorns two victories in in­dividual events and the Lon­ghorns swept the three relay races. Gjertsen, who won the 200-yard freestyle Friday, also recorded a pair of seconds and was the anchor swimmer in two of the relay events. 
Jay Avenido respectively. 
Freshman David Kuhlman also has been playing outstand­ing tennis ever since a big win at Harvard over Spring Break, which earned him the sixth singles spot. Saturday Kuhlman beat the Cardinal's Chris Trinkle handily 7-5, 6-3. 
The Irish next took on the Salukis of SIU-Carbondale, in a much more competitive match. Southern Illinois dominated Notre Dame in sine:les play, and won overall 5-4. The Irish had beaten the 


Michigan's Brent Lang celebrates after winning mlng and Diving Championships this weekend In the 100-meter freestyle at the NCAA Men's Swim-Indianapolis. Lang's winning time was 42.96. 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
Lady Boilermakers and evened the series record between the two teams to 6-6. Gelfman at­tributed the victory to two 
MONDAY & TUESDAY 7-10 PM 

NO: Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune 
SMC: LeMans Lobby 
Salukis 7-2 at Notre Dame in January. 
SIUC won four of the six singles matches, including number one singles. In that match Jairo Albano beat Brian Kalbas 6-2, 6-4. In other singles action Joe Deneterco trounced Mike Wallace 6-2,6-2. and Mickey Maule beat Ryan Wenger in a close match 7-6, 7-6. The Irish winners were Dave Reiter and Paul Odland. Reiter, who is bothered by a reoccuring foot injury, came off the bench to defeat Fabiano 
-·­
/ 

0 
"First, we paced ourselves well," said Gelfman. "Usually we are traveling a lot, but this weekend we had time to regroup and came out fresh. Second, I think Purdue under­estimated us. They thought that they were going to do the same thing that they did last year." 
need info? 
CALL Regine 284-5316, Ann 284-5221, or Colleen 283-2582 
In singles play, Ce Ce Cahill shook off a second-set loss and triumphed in three 6-4, 2-6, 6-2. Dasso also dropped the second set but followed suit in winning a three-set battle, 6-4, 0-6, 6-1. Alice Lohrer conquered Kelly Craig, 6-3, 6-2, and Bradshaw blanked Georgina Munsz, 6-0, 6-0. 
In doubles play, only two out of the three matches were played. The match between the number-one tandems was for­gone because by the time it could be played, the match was already decided. In matches that were played, the duo of Lohrer and Natalie Illig defeated Kristen Dicken and Georgina Munoz 6-3, 6-1. Brad­shaw and Pacella were pushed to a tiebreaker in the second set but would go no further and edged Kelley Craig and Mic­hello Oelze, 6-4, 7-6(7-5). 
"The girls played to win," said Gelfman. "I was pleased with the play of Alice Lohrer and Cathy Bradshaw. They both had great weekends." 
Gelfman was ecstatic that her team improved its record to 10-13. 
"I think we can attain a .500 record and I hope we realize how good we are," said Gelfman. 
Ramos 6-3, 6-3. 
In doubles play the Irish fared better, but didn't play well enough to win the match overall. Wallace and Reiter beat Maule and Ramos in straight sets 6-1, 7-6. The tan­dem of Mike Walsh and Paul Daggs also won in straight sets. Kalbas and Wenger came up short in doubles, losing to Al­bano and Deneterco 7-5, 7-5. 
The Irish played well in both matches and now have a record of 14-10. Louisville is 8-5 and Southern Illinois is 13-9. 

_.. 

AP Photo 

The Observer Monday, April11, 1988
page 12 

Comeback victory leaves Yankees 5-0 
Associated Press the Minnesota Twins to a 4-2 Detroit Tigers. two balks and issued six walks, victory over the Toronto Blue Seitzer, George Brett and including two with the bases 
NEW YORK--Don Slaught Jays on Sunday. Jim Eisenreich hit RBI doubles loaded in Texas' three-run went 4-for-4 Sunday, including Frank Viola, 1-1, allowed in the first inning doubles to fourth. a tie-breaking two-run single in seven hits in 7 2-3 innings as give the Royals a 3-0 lead Scott Fletcher and Ruben the eighth inning, leading the the defending world champions against Doyle Alexander, 0-1. Sierra opened the inning with New York Yankees to a com­won for the second time in five Wilson opened the Royals' singles. Sellers struck out the eback 7-6 victory over the Mil­games. Jeff Reardon pitched first with a single and scored side and didn't allow another waukee Brewers and their first the final 1 1-3 innings for his on Seitzer's double. Brett's hit in the inning, but a balk, 5-0 start since 1933. second save. double brought Seitzer home three walks and a fielding error 
Six balks were called, setting Todd Stottlemyre, 0-1, and one out later Eisenreich enabled the Rangers to take a an American League record making his first major-league doubled to score Brett. 3-1 lead. Two of the runs were and tying the major-league start and second appearance, unearned. mark. Five were committed by had the Twins baffled through Chet Lemon and Mike Heath Milwauke and two of them led four innings. singled in the Detroit second. Mariners 7, White Sox 4 to the run that tied the game But Randy Bush opened the Jim Walewander's fly ball as CHICAGO--Rookie Rich Ren­4-4 in the seventh inning plus inning with a double and Tom dropped by right fielder Danny teria had three hits, including the run that capped a three-run Brunansky walked. They TartabuH, but he recovered in a pair of doubles, and scored eighth and proved to be the pulled off a double steal, with time for force Heath at second twice on singles by Al Davis to game-winner. Bush scoring and Brunansky as Lemon scored the only run lead the Seattle Mariners to a 
The Yankees, who trailed 4-0 taking third when catcher Pat off Leibrandt, 1-1. 7-4 victory over the Chicago in the second inning, were tied Borders overthrew. White Sox Sunday. 4-4 when they loaded the bases Rangers 4, Red Sox 1 Mike Moore was the winner, with one out in the eighth After Steve Lombardozzi ARLINGTON, Texas--Paul allowing nine hits and three against reliever Chuck Crim, 0-walked and Tom Nieto struck Kilgus pitched a four-hitter runs in six innings. 
The Observer I File Photo 1, on singles by Gary Ward and out, Gladden doubled, putting over seven innings and the Brian Poltrowlcz allowed only Dave Winfield and a walk to the Twins ahead 2-1. Gagne Texas Rangers exploited Bos­five hits In Sunday's win. Roberto Kelly. greeted Mark Eichhorn with a ton mistakes in the fourth in­Indians 6, Orioles 3 
After Dan Plesac struck out single to make it 4-1. ning for a 4-1 victory over the CLEVELAND--Jay Bell hit a Mike Pagliarulo, Slaught sin­Red Sox on Sunday. two-run triple and continuedND baseball gled. Plesac then balked, al­Royals 8, Tigers 1 Kilgus, 1-0, was relieved by home on a Baltimore error to lowing Kelly to score. KANSAS CITY, Mo.--Willie Mitch Williams after walking cap a four-run fourth, and Car­takes four Wilson and Kevin Seitzer each the leadoff batter in the eighth men Castillo had three hits and Twins 4, Blue Jays 2 had three hits and Charlie inning. It was Williams' second two RBis as the Cleveland In­
The Notre Dame baseball MINNEAPOLIS--Dan Glad­Leibrandt scattered seven hits save. dians beat the Orioles 6-3 Sun­team swept two doubleheaders den's RBI double and Greg in eight innings Sunday, Boston starter Jeff Sellers, 0-day. from Midwest Collegiate Con­Gagne's two-run single keyed leading the Kansas City Royals 1, allowed only five hits and Baltimore, 0-5, matching its ference rival Xavier this a four-run fifth inning that gave to an 8-1 victory over the struck out seven but committed worst start since the 1955 weekend at Cincinnati, Ohio. Orioles went 0-6, has been out­
Notre Dame unloaded the scored 36-5. The Indians, 5-l, Musketeers 14-2 and 13-4 on Sat­are off to their best start since urday, then won 6-1 and 7-6 on the 1966 team opened with 10 Sunday. The four wins lifted the straight victories. Irish to first plac~ in the MCC's Northern Division. Notre 
Angels 6, Athletics 4
Dame, which has won six ANAHEIM, Calif.--Jack

straight games and 14 of its last Howell drove in two runs with17, holds a 6-2 conference two singles and the Californiarecord and a 20-13 overall Angels scored twice as a resultmark. 

of balks by Oakland's BobFurther details of the Welch and beat the Athletics 6-4weekend sweeps will appear in Sunday.
tomorrow's edition of The Ob­server. 

SMC dumps 
Saturdey~me One Notre Dame 010 022 9 -14 16 0 Xavier 110 000 0 ·2 8 5 
Ft. Wayne
Mike Passilla and Ed Lund. Dave Goodwin, Phil Ferhine (7) and Tom Serey. WP-Passilla (3-3). LP.· Goodwin (1-4). HR· Notre Dame, Pat Pesavento (1), 
twice 
Chris Flynn (4). 
Saturdey~me Two 

By MOLLY MCNEILL
Notre Dame 031 052 200 ·13 13 3 Xavier 002 001 010 -4 8 0 Sports Writer 
Kevin Chenail, Mike Coffey (7), Tony Livorsi (9) and Ed Lund, Craig Pavlina (9). Bill Wittich, Barry Butterbaugh (6) and Derrick Menckus. WP-Chenail The Saint Mary's softball (3-2). LP-Wrttich (0-4). HR· Notre Dame, Chris Flynn team combined power at the (5), Pat O'Brien (1· grand slam). Xavier, Scott Gor­
don 2 (5). plate with consistent defense in the field to sweep IUPU-Fort 
Sundey~me One Notre Dame 310 110 0 -6 7 0 Wayne at home Saturday. Xavier 000 000 1 -1 5 0 The Belles welcomed 
the 
Brian Piotrowicz and Ed Lund. Jeff Rumpke and Derrick Venckus. WP-Piotrowicz (4-3). LP-Rumpke pleasant weather conditions as (2·3). HR· Xavier, Scott Gordon (6). 
they had no problem handling Sundey~me Two their opponents, playing close Notre Dame 020 010 121 -7 10 1 
to perfect games. 

Xavier 021 010 002 -6 13 2 Erik Madsen, Mike Harmon (9) and Ed Lund. Rob Freshman Michelle Pinter Burkhart, Scott Gordon (9) and Torn Serey, Derrick 
lead the attack from the mound 
Venckus (9). WP-Madsen (6-2). LP· Burkhart (1-4). Save-Harmon (1 ). HR-Notre Dame, Tim Hutson going the distance and only al­(9). lowing five free rides. In the field, the defense was sparked by junior shortshop 
Carolyn 'Jumper' Konopa. Konopa, a transfer student Associated Press against Randy St. Claire. from Valparaiso, has contrib­
Mets avert Phillies' series sweep 4-3 
from Shane Rawley, 0-2, for the eight and improved his record 
Law went to second on the uted greatly in both the field an
game winner. to 2-0.
PHILADELPHIA--Mookie throw home and took third on at the plate. Wilson hit two home runs, in­Pirates 5, Cardinals 3 (11) a single by Shawon Dunston. Catcher Laura Sokolowski
Dodgers 3, Braves 1
cluding a two-run, seventh­

ST. LOUIS--Sid Bream and Pinch-hitter Jerry Mumphrey had the hot bat at the plate,
ATLANTA--Orel Hershiser
inning blast that carried the walked to load the bases, and leading the Belles in RBI's.
Mike La Valliere hit consecu­
allowed five hits over 8 1-3 in­
New York Mets to a 4-3 victory tive doubles to break a 3-3 tie, Carmelo Martinez doubled The first game provided the 
nings, taking a shutout into the over Philadelphia on Sunday, 
and the Pittsburgh Pirates home two more runs. warm-up the Belles needed.
ninth inning until Atlantasnapping the Phillies' three­scored twice in the nth inning Rich Gossage 1-0 picked up They came out strong and wonsnapped his streak of 17 score­
game winning streak. to beat St. Louis 5-3 Sunday. the victory and Les Lancaster by the ten-run rule in the fifth 
less innings, but the DodgersDwight Gooden, 2-0, pitched 
earned the save. inning 17-5.
held on to beat the Braves 3-1
the first six innings, allowing Cubs 10, Expos 7 Saint Mary's wasn't as per­
on Sunday.
three runs and five hits. 

MONTREAL--Vance Law Montreal scored three runs fect in the field in the second Gooden struck out three and Astros 12, Reds 3 singled home Manny Trillo to with two out in the ninth to tie game, but the team made up
walked five. Roger McDowell CINCINNATI--Kevin Bass break a lOth-inning tie, and the 
the score 7-7. for the errors with a powerful
worked the next 2 1-3 innings hit a grand slam and Glenn Chicago Cubs scored three runs attack at the plate.before he was bailed out of a Davis drove in four runs with in the lOth inning to beat the Padres 6, Giants 4 Tammy Shelor started on the ninth-inning jam by Randy a sacrifice fly and a three-run Montreal Expos 10-7 Sunday. SAN FRANCISCO--Randy mound and did a good job of Myers, who earned his first homer Sunday to lead the Hous­
Trillo, pinch hitting, drew a Ready hit a two-run homer and keeping IUPU-Ft. Wayne off 
save. ton Astros to a 12-3 victory over lead-off walk from Bob 
scored twice, helping the San the bases. She was relieved by The Mets trailed 3-2 going the Cincinnati Reds. McClure, 0-1, was sacrificed to Diego Padres beat the San freshman Kim Benjamin, who 
into the seventh. Len Dykstrt;l, Mike Scott, who pitched a second by Rafeal Palmeiro and Francisco Giants 6-4 Sunday added the finishing touches in batting for Gooden, beat out a seven-hitter, reached the 1,000-came around when Law 
for their first victory of the the Belles second victory of the 
bunt. Wilson then hit a 1-0 pitch strikeout mark by fanning bounced a ball up the middle season. day. 



AP Photo 

Sunday 4-3. The win averted a sweep of the series by the Phlllles. 
,.-.--------------------~-­
Monday, April 11, 1988 
The Observer 
page 13 

Getting down to business 
S•turd•y'• R••ult• 
Stepan 1 

Billy and the Bikers over Raffomania by 8 Digger Phelps· A Season ... over 5 Guys Standing Around... by 12 The Trlnily over Scummas by 17 We B Brocldayers over Midland, Texas ... by 8 4 Paopte With a Clue... over Faraide Players by 
4 
Hardrea House Tiki over Prude by 15 
Step•n 2 Brideohead Revrsited over House, Moose, and 3 Guys... by 9 I'll Play, No I Won't ... over The Untouchable Five 
by 15 
5 Guys Who Wish ... over 5 Inebriated Loons ... by 13 Yo.. .Whal'a Up over We Are Best by 13 5 Guys Who Srng Soprano... over Oddlellowa 
Local £151 by 10 
Step•n 3 3 Men, A Fag, and a Husband over 110th and 3rd Ave. by 12 Butch and the Box Cars over Chemical Imbalance by 14 
Hana, Frana. and 3 other guys... over Jimmy Swaggert singa ...by forteit La Polls Recorda over We Play as Good as Digger Coacheoby17 5 Guys with a Suburban... over 5 Guys with a Momentary Lapse ... by 9 What ia Bookstore Anyway? over Nobody Cares about Apartheid 22·20 
Stepan 4 IKE over Just Another Number by 10 The Maccabees over The Five Amigoa by 9 Ollie North and 4 Guys who ... over Swill n' Swish by5 Swaggart. Beker, Hart & 2 Others ... over Dick Button... by 3 SCB Club over Bad lnftuence by 18 
Step•n 5 Fat's Running Oters over Clueless Revisited by 13 
Posarble Skank over Brothers ol Childhood by 12 
The 4 Horsemen & a Plumber over Career & Placement Reject ... by 5 Spring Break over 5 Guys Who Play Less than ... 
by t2 O.B.'a Pub over Censored by 9 Stepan 8 
5 Guys Who Follow Triangle over it's Not Whether You Win ... by 12 Spiffy Spoon Handles over 4 Dudes and Stash 
by 4 5 Guys & ND Girts:... over McWooln & The Cavlly Creeps by 5 It Does Not look Like a Taco over 3.14149 by 2 
5 Guys Who Swrng Low over Peenmo & Squankera by 5 The Mrchlgan Connection over Abla Nidal and His Card... by 5 Michigan Connection over Abia Nidal and His Card. by 5 
Book8to,. 9 Rodeo Morse and the Dead Horse over A Mid­summer Nights ... by 4 Zipper & The Undertoads over Road Kill by 8 Chips Bar over Really, We Know What We're Doing by 12 The Adirondack Rustic Campers over The Varts by 12 Joseph & His Aack over Court Mongers by 13 
Book8to,.10 TOOkey Masters over Phoenix Phenomena by 12 5 Blondes under 5'2" over We Signed Up Twice by 15 Several Species of Small Fury ... over 5 Guys Fis­hing ... by 12 SOMFAW'a Retum over Pete & Tony are Still Fat by 13 The Oiler Pub Strobers over We Drink Alone by 
8 

Lyon• 11 Kernels over We Like Bug Juice by 12 Slippery When Wet over Duke and The Dongs 22 to 20 Corporate Aalders over Thirty end under by 9 Captains Of Tihe Zodiac over We Dribble Before We Shoot by 5 
L.S.P. over Tihe Greatest Team In The World by 
4 

Lyone 12 The Wounde Fever Shatchn over Team From Hell by 7 Where Are You Bud? over 2 Couples & A 5th Wheel by 6 The-Tors over Tihe Big Blue Vane by 11 Return Of The Fug~lve Guys over Riker Is A Huck­leberry by 4 Free Handed Evangelista over 5 Men And a Baby by 4 
Sund•y'• Result• 
Stepan 1 
Drgger Phelps: A Season ... over Billy & The Bikers by 4 Hordies House Tiki over 4 People With a Clue by 
7 I'll Play ... over Brideahead Revistited by 8 Pump Up The Volume over Gimme Some Jau by 2 Man In A Canoe Overtloard over We're Genna Lose ... by 13 
We B Bricklayers over Tihe Trinily by forfeit Yo.. .What Up over 5 Guys Who Wish by 16 5 Guys Who Sing over Guys Who Can't Slam by 
5 

No Blood, No Foul over Late Night by 8 Wally, Julie & Steve ... over Rabid Bats From Hell by 6 
Stepan 3 La Carne Caliente over Tihe Grungemasters by 13 Hans, Frans & ... over La Polka Records by 6 5 Guys With A ... over What is Bookstore by 4 Lou's 2 QB's over Air Chek ... by 8 Michael Cool J over Hearty Bee! Over Aios by 9 
Stepan 4 Rich, Dan over The Zone by 15 Red Death... over Silly English Pigdoga by 10 Ferrence... over 5'10"-6'4" by 4 Dantley... over Tihe Local £69 ... 25-23 
Stepan 5 Ferrence ... over 5'1 0" -6'4" by 4 Dantley... over Tihe Local £69 ... 25-23 Minahoonies over 800 lba. of Slow ... 23-21 Look Who Bought the Myth over Bob Uecker and 4 ... by 8 
A Pilot and 4 Guys Who Can Fly over A Few Good Wastes ... by 5 
Stepan 8 5 Guys Who Can Lick ... over 5'a All Around 22-20 Adworl<s All-Stars over The Dudes With the Moves by 13 Men on Men over Ankle Bangers by 10 4 Brothers and a Sweet J over 5 Amigoa by 2 Dan Jansen, Debi Thomas... by 11 
Stepan 7 Off the Glasa over 5 White Guys Dangling by 8 Ylkea, I'm Sitting On... over Blood, Guts... by 2 Larvae: Boon or Bane over 3 Players and 2 Coaches by 16 The Ministers of Pain over One Wide Reciever by 
4 

We Don't Need a Center over This is Vintage Digger by 2 Bookato,. D Flipper and the Undertoads over Rodeo Morse by 
6 

The Adirondaks over Chips Bar by 4 Tookey Masters over Joseph and His Flock by 3 Several Small Species ... over 5 Blondes Under... by 10 
Bookato,. 10 SOMFAW'a Return over Tihe Oller Pub Strokers by 3 Fat's Running Otter over The Cotton Club by 11 The 4 Horsemen... over Possible Skank by 4 OB's Pub over Spring Break by 9 
Lyon• 11 Reverse Peristalsis over Don't Shock My Corn by forfeit 
Brace Yourselves over Men Without Pants by 13 Top Guns over Dunkin' Hines by 10 The Linebacker over Mercuriana by 9 
Lyone 12 Les Mia and the Return... over 5 Guys Who Put... by 7 Jimmy Swaggart, Jim Baker... over Tihe 10 of Us by 5 Double Hems over Smash 22-20 Jolly Green Giant over Fennis Glembo et al by 3 
Monday'• G•m•• 
Stepan 1 
4:00 -Party at Chips ... va. Disgruntled Ras­tafarians 
4:45 -Tihe Mules vs. Who's Next ... 
5:30 -Sprocker Met va. Kearnsey Likes Little Boys 
6:15 -110th and 3rd Avenue vs. Butch and the Boy Cars 
Stepan 2 

4:00 -Put the Power of an Upright. . vs. W~h Ourselves 4;45 -Sly and the Family Stone vs. We Couldn't 
Think ... 
5:30 Gick, Mook, and 3... vs. The Groundskeepers of Busch... 
6:15 -IKE vs. Elvis Died.. . Step•n 3 
4:00 -Tihe Team That Couldn't. . vs. A Fat Man, aGimp... 4:45-Dick V~ale's One-Eyed... vs. Check the los 
5:30 -LA Law vs. Slaughterhouse 5 
6:15 • Tihe Maccabees vs. Ollie North and ... 
Step•n 4 

4:00 . Bayliss Boys vs. 5 Guys Who Bust Anyth­ing ... 
4:45 -Conjunction Junction ... vs. Dangling Child­hood 
5:30 -Fill it Up vs. Pop a Shot at Senior Ber 
6:15-Swaggart, Bekker, Hart... vs. SCB Club Stepan 5 
4:00 -Blair's Cousin va. Retum of the Sodom Clowns 
4:45 -Air Daggers vs. A Senior W~h a Job... 5:30-Maddog and the Meat-Eating ... vs. D-<:Ubed, T-aquared 
6: t 5 -Put It in the Hale... vs. 5 Chips in Search 
of... Stepan 8 
4:00 -Whubus and his 4 Friends vs. Greg Talbot and 4 Excuses 
4:45 -Cool Guys on Asphalt vs. Johnny Wad's Last Shot 
5:30 -Students of the Game vs. Kiss ol Death­tongue 
6:15 -Legion ol Doom vs. 4 Men and a Red­Headed Stepchild 
Book8to,. 9 
4:00 · Kernels vs. Slippery When Wet 
4:45 -Corporare Aalders vs. Captains ol the Zodiac 
5:30 · Debi Gibson, You're Ours vs. 1988 
Bookstore Champs Booketo,.to 
4:00 -LSP vs. Axe Wounds Fever ... 
4:45 -Where Are You. Bud? vs. The Tors 
5:30 -Surfs Up va. 4 Hogs and a Pig 
6:15 -Tihe Big Men From u. State va. 6 Guys 
That can't Add Lyon• 11 
4:00 -Return of the Fugitive Guys vs. The Free­Handed Evangelists 
4:45 -5 Guys Who Follow Triangle ... vs. Spiffy Spoon Handles 
5:30 -Reefers vs. Red Red Wine 
6:15-A Bad Dude... vs. Jamaican Sinse Lyona 12 
4:00 -5 Guys and No Girts... va. it Doesn't Look Like a Taco 
4:45 -5 Guys Who Swing Low vs. The Michigan Connection 
5:30 -Tihe Illegitimate Children ... vs. Forteit 6:15-Any Age Will Do vs. Meet the Semo 
Bookstore 
continued from page 16 
and leading all scorers with 
eight. Jim Baugus and point 
guard Andrew Higney chipped 
in with four apiece, while Ray 
Dumas went 4-of-21 for the 
losers. 
Five Blondes Under 5-2 Will 
ing Pay Two-Thirds (and they 
really are, they said) blew out 
We Signed Up Twice 21-6 on 
Saturday behind Petra Wor 
wag's 20 points. The Blondes 
then lost their bid for the Round 
of 128 on Sunday by losing to 
Several Small Species of Small 
Furry Animals Gathered To 
gether In A Cave 21-11. 
"Hey, this is the 80's," said Blondes point guard Erin Bar­tholemy. "I know people might be surprised we won on Satur­day but we're out to begin a bastion of female superiority at Notre Dame." 
One team that had little trou­ble advancing w'as Yo... What's Up rolled past Five Guys Who Wished They · Played For Xavier, 21-5. Bobby Carpenter and Joe Hippler paced the win ners with 10 and eight points respectively. In another runaway, Adworks All-Stars, playing without Mr. Bookstore 1987 John Bouscher, froze The Dudes With The Moves 21-8 be­hind the strong inside play of Cedric Figaro and the eight points of Ricky Watters. 
In other action over the weekend, the Linebacker tackled Mercurians 21-12; Top Guns shot down Dunkin' Hines 21-11 and Gamecocks 21-13; Brace Yourselves stripped Men Without Pants 21-7; SOM­F A W's Return slipped past The Oiler Pub Strokers 21-17 

..................................................u ..............................................................................................................................................u ................................................. 
I FRESHMAN PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGRAMS I 
i I
I Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program: areas on Tuesday, April 12, 1988. 
At each program complete information will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree curriculum. 
The meeting places for the programs, according to college program area, are as follows: 
ARTS AND LETTERS COLLEGE PROGRAMS (all, including AL Preprofessional) 
Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium A through K at 6:30 PM L through Z at 8:00 PM 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION COLLEGE PROGRAM 
122 Hayes-Healy Center A through K at 6:30 to 7:30 P.M. L through Z at 7:45 to 8:45 P.M. 
ENGINEERING COLLEGE PROGRAMS -6:30 P.M.
i 
Aerospace 
I 
12 Aerospace Building {lt75) 
Architecture 202 Architecture BuildingChemical 182 Fitzpatrick HallCivil 
205 Cushing Hall
Electrical and Computer Engineering 
I 
356 Fitzpatrick Hall
Materials Science and Engineering 384 Fitzpatrick HallMechanical 
I

120 Cushing Hall 
SCIENCE COLLEGE PROGRAMS -6:30 P.M. 
Biological Sciences 283 Galvin Life Science Center 
Chemistry 158A Stepan Chemistry Hall (enter through North door only) Earth Sciences 101 Earth Science Building Mathematics 300 Computing Centeli'Math Bldg. Physics 341 Nieuwland Science (7:00 P.M.) 
Preprofessional (All majors, this includes all collegiate sequence majors) SCIENCE ONLY 
118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
FINANCIAL AID INFORMATION • 9:00 P.M. Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium 
ALL FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR. 
llllltHHI...IIItiHIHIHII....II..............................HIMtiHHIHIIHHIHHIHHIHHIIHIIIH...IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII....HHIIIIIIIIIIIHIIHIIIIIHHIIHIIIHIII.................................................................. 
~~--~~a~g~e~-_!:1-4~-·~-_-...,......_-_~ -_-_-_-_--_~---------~~~----·------~--~----~______!.T.!..!h~e~O~b~s~~:.!..:N~e:!..~----_-_-_-_---­
___--__ 

I t 
I Experienced Heater takes 
I 

George Streeter Is one of the familiar faces In a secondary which features some new one&. Theresa Kelly details t,he changes at right. 
Defense 
continued from page 16 
tion gets more interesting every day. Tony Rice, Kent Graham, Peter Graham and Steve Belles are all doing some good things." 
Kent Graham skippered the No. 2 offense into the end zone against the No. 2 defense from 70 yards out on the next drive. Brooks gained seven yards on a fourth-and-three play to keep the drive alive, and junior Aaron Robb snagged a 10-yard touchdown pass on the sideline to finish it. 
Rice engineered his only touchdown march as the No. 1 offense scored against the No. 2 defense to close the scrim-

Lyle escapes as a Master 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga.--Sandy Lyle, once teetering on the brink of collapse, extricated himself from a fairway bunker on the 72nd hole and then sank a 12­foot birdie putt for a one-shot victory Sunday in the 52nd Masters. 
Lyle, a husky Scot who won the 1985 British Open, was tied for the lead with Mark Cal­cavecchia until the final stroke of the tournament sent the putt downhill and into the cup. It finished off a 1-under-par 71 and made Lyle the first British subject to win this storied tournament. 
Lyle had to come out of a yawning fairway bunker on the 18th hole of the Augusta Na­tional Golf Club course. He ran hopefully onto the fairway to follow the flight of the ball, which hit beyond the cup and backed up toward the hole while the gallery howled for still more roll. 
Lyle, who had blown a two­
• shot lead and trailed as late as the 15th hole, rolled the winning putt into the back of the cup: It gave him a total of 281, seven shots under par. 
Lyle also became the only three-time winner on the Amer­ican PGA tour this season and mage. The final play was a play-action toss to freshman tight end Frank Jacobs from the 1-yard line. 

Holtz noted improvement in the area of penalties, but said there is still progress to be made. 
Junior Andy Heck, who has played tackle this spring, ran a few plays back at tight end near the end of the scrimmage. Pat Terrell is still in the defen­sive backfield, while Braxston Banks looks to be playing more fullback than tailback. 
"We're still trying to put the football team together," Holtz explained. "And we've got a long way to go. We're going to find the right combination on the offensive line. I don't know what it is yet, but we're going 
SCORECARD 

AUGUSTA, Ga.~Final scores and prize money Sun­day for top finishers in the 52nd Masters Golf T oum· ament, played on the 6,905-yard, par·72 Augusta 
National GoH Club Course:  
Sandy Lyle, $183,800  71-67-72·71-281  
Mark Calcavcch, 110,200  71-69-72·70-·282  
Craig Stadler, 69,400  76-69· 70·68 ..283  
Ben Crenshaw, 48,900  72-73-67-72--284  
Fred Couples, 36,500  75-68-71-71--285  
Greg Norman, 36,500  77·73·71-64..285  
Don Pooley. 36,500  71-72·72·70-·285  
David Frost, 31,000  73·74-71-68..286  
Bemhard Langer, 28,000  71·72-71·73·-287  
Tom Watson, 28,000  72· 71-73· 71--287  

first man to win consecutive tournament titles since West German Bernhard Langer won the Masters and the Heritage Classic in 1985. Lyle came into the Masters off a victory in the Greater Greensboro Open. 
Calcavecchia, a man from the wrong side of golf's tracks and a caddy as recently as three years ago, finished second with a 2-under-par 70 in the bright, warm sunshine. He had a 282 total, six under par. 
Craig Stadler, the 1982 Masters winner, once had a share of the lead, but dropped back with a 16th-hole bogey and finished third at 283. Stadler, who bolted into contention with a 12-foot eagle putt on the eighth hole, had a closing 68. 
Another former champion, 1984 winner Ben Crenshaw, fol-
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Anyone watching the Notre Dame football team practice this spring will see an un­familiar face and an old face 
in an unfamiliar place. 
The new face is secondary co­ach Chuck Heater, who takes over the defensive backfield from Terry Forbes, who retired after the 1987 season. Heater is coming off three years working as an assistant coach at Ohio State, where he coached the Buckeye second­ary. 
The old face in an unfamiliar place is that of Pat Terrell, a reciever last year who is making the move to free safety. 
Heater brings a successful philosophy from a successful Ohio State program. "I want the players to know their responsibilities," Heater 
to find it. 
"One thing's for sure: the only thing we won't change is their names." 
EXTRA POINTS: More bad . news for the offensive line. Jim Dadiotis, who is in the hunt for a job in the trenches, will be out for the rest of the spring with a shoulder separation suf­fered in the scrim­mage... Notre Dame basket­ball player Sean Connor is looking for the open Irish pun­ting job. Connor booted one more than 50 yards before the scrimmage in punt drills. "Sean's a real question mark," Holtz said. "We don't know if it's in his best interests to punt, though it might be in the best interests of the Notre Dame football team." 
lowed at 284 after a hard-won 
72. He was Lyle's playing partner in the final twosome that played over the flowered hills and valleys of the course Bobby Jones built. 
Greg Norman, the white­haired Australian who was runner-up in the last two Masters, started the day 11 shots back but burst into con­tention with a record-matching 30 over the front side. 
But the putts stopped falling with the same regularity on the back nine and, although finish­ing with a 64 that was the best round of the tournament, he ac­tually expressed disappoint­ment. 
"I thought if I could get it to five under (par) the other guys might start thinking, 'How can he shoot 62 out there?' and wor­rying about my score instead of theirs," Norman said. 
But he couldn't quite make it, finishing in a tie at 285, three under par, with Don Pooley and Fred Couples. 
Pooley had a closing 70 and Couples 71. 
South Mrican David Frost was at 286 after a 68. Tom Wat­son and Bernhard Langer were at 287. Watson, a two-time Masters champion, shot 71 and Langer, a West German who won here in 1985, had a 73. 
Monday, April 11, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Campus 
Monday 
4:30 p.m. College of Science 1988 Nieuwland Lecture in Biological Sciences, part II "The Mesenchymal Cell: Control of Cell Shape and Locomotion by Matrix­Cytoskeleton Interaction," by Professor Elizabeth Hay, Harvard Medical School. Galvin Life Sciences auditorium 
7 p.m. Career and Placement presentation by Paul Reynolds, associate director, titled "Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out the Profile Form." Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
7 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film series "Gilda," 1946, 114 minutes, directed by Charles Vidor, USA. Annenberg Auditorium 
8 p.m. Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, part I "The Biogenesis of Lysosomes," by Professor Stuart Kornfeld, Washington University Medical School, St. Louis. Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
8 p.m. Saint Mary's department of music graduate artist recital series Jonathan Helton, saxophone. Little Theatre 9 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film series "Repo Man," 1984, 92 minutes, directed by Alan Cox, USA. Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Hot Beef Sandwich BBQ Spare Ribs Turkey Divan Pasta Primavera Saint Mary's Chicken Patty Ground Beef and Potato Pie Pancakes Corn Souffle 


Comics 
Bloom County 
THeY ~y HI~ AUVIIY5 KEPe"/1-m ~ 
ttl~· 
Calvin and Hobbes 
8t>.D ~f.W'5 ON '1-'lu~ ro\l.s. Pr\o. '()\) PR<>PP£.0 
t\NO\\-IER fWt. to\NTS. 

~/Jef( fO(/fl. 'ICII~ f6() WIEN ~~IIPIJW f!lf(TY 5efff }1)(1 M fl)({ PIN6 ~65 1/NP 11EN NAMe/? YOf/ 
1H€7R CIINIJIPilT€ RJI{ VIC£­l'f(~51~T IN ~Ill l' 
II SEEMS 1\i~T />.L\\\1.)\lG\-\ ~OOR Rt.CClG~IT\~ t=t>..Gt>R IS ~IG\-1, 1\-\t. sc.A~Of>.lS Of 'lOIJR />.01'111~\STAATIO~ CD~TIN\lt. \tl 1-\/>.\l~\ ~0\l. 
\~\L 
.,...---­
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS Ripening factors 
6 Burden 10 Achy 14 Face an 
embankment 15 Bud holder 16 Prune 17 Soul 18 Roman road 19 Fury 20 Golden horse 22 Blue pencil 
wielder 24 "Miami -" 25 Table linens 26 ,Gypsy 29 Macbeth title 31 -Gay 32 Raucous 33 Goulash 37 Matched 
group 38 Scope 39 Mine yield 40 Filly's galt 42 -fixe 43 Prove falsity 45 Acted mad 47 Wired 48 Nautical 51 Single: pref. 52 Evoke 53 Bookish 57 Rich fabric 58 Shiite leader 
60  Breed of  
dwarf cattle  
61  First victim  

62 Not any 63 Petal essence 64 Facet 65 Scot 66 Shuts tight 
DOWN 1 Don't give ­2 Rowlands of 
films 3 Maleficent 4 Hauling away 5 Endurance 6 Like ewe 7 Western pact 8 Employ 9 Love song 
Berke Breathed 
1,~~ ~~~ 


10 Lines 11 Speechify 12 Severity 13 Manicure item 21 Slick 23 Well-known 
Rather 26 Pause 27 Rarity 28 Oriental sleuth 29-down 
(muted) 30 Humongous 32 Put on freight 34 Driving fee 35 Huron's 
neighbor 36 Unwanted 

plant 
38 Enthralling 
41 Drip 
43 Allen film 
44 Hard rubber 49 Courtroom 54 Toodle-oo 
46 Tropical claim 55 Type type: cuckoo 50 Stirred up abbr. 
47 Fish 51 Baltic port 56 Autos 
48 Plateaus 53 Glass sheet 59 Extinct bird 

For Somethmg Completely Otlferent 
{QJI"'\ ·S-fd3·· 

presents ~ .............. Monty Python's 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN

Sun., April 24 O'Laughlin 
7 30 p m 

Auditorium 
Sa.nt Mary·s College 
Ttckets Now on Sale 
O'Laughiln Aud•tOIIum Bo• OM1ce T1cket Stub. LaFor1une Hall Notre Dame Century Center Bo• Qn,ce 

All Seats Reserved '1 01'5 Students V•s.t MasrerCarel Oraers analnlormar•on 2~-4626 


Sports
page 16 Monday, April 11, 1988 
Defense looks strong as experiments continue 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's defensive coaches are smiling. The offen­sive coaches are still ex­perimenting. 
And Saturday afternoon's spring football scrimmage in 
SPRittCi FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame Stadium was a great example of both. 
First the No.2 defense would stop the No.1 offense. Then the No.1 defense would stymie the No. 2 offense. Then it would happen again. And again. And again. 

Billy Hackett's 27-yard field goal after a 43-yard march by the No. 2 offense, led by fresh­man Kent Graham, snapped the shutout on the 12th drive of the afternoon. The defense stopped six of the first 11 drives without allowing a first down. 
"We won't sell many season tickets if the fans come to see offense," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "But I thought the hitting was crisp and the inten­sity was good. Our young offen­sive line really put the defense ahead. We're still trying to find the right chemistry up front." 
Defensive tackle Jeff Alm and outside linebacker Darrell "Flash" Gordon took advan­tage of the inexperience and 
358 title hopes are extinguished 
Intensity picks up on the courts 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The first round of Bookstore Basketball XVII is history, as are the hopes of 358 teams which have been eliminated from competition. 
After the 48 games played yesterday, a total of 208 teams remain to vie for the coveted Bookstore title. The second round of action began yester­day and continues today and tommorow before the round of 128 kicks into gear Wednesday. 
AR~AA ~~~A ••
Jirrrirrr'l• 
Both the level of play and in­tensity picked up during this weekend's action and will con­tinue to do so for the rest of the tournament as some early favorites find that no win is a given. 
One seeded team which found its hands full was Minahoonies, who reached the final-16last year before bowing out to the eventual champions, 'Da Brothers of Manhood. Yes­terday they met up with 800 Pounds of Slow, White Cellulite in second round action. 
Cellulite and Minahoonies pounded the boards and an­swered point-for-point in the second half until Minahoonies, who played without point guard Steve Antonelli, eclipsed a 21-21 tie and put in two hoops to take the overtime win, 23-21. 
"It was a pretty physical game," said Pete Graham of Minahoonies, who scored eight points in the contest, "but's that's kind of the way we play. We've got some big players. We're not a crowd favorite, that's for sure, but they were just as physical as we were. 
"They (Cellulite) could have possibly been a final-32 team if they didn't get matched up with us. Hopefully the rest of our bracket won't be as difficult." 
Brideshead Revisited put a scare into I'll Play, No I Won't, I'll Play, No I Won't early in their game yesterday before the Leone's Stallions connec­tion of John Mundo and Al Mar­tin, guards on last year's tourn­ament runner-up team, turned up the tempo and ran away with a 21-13 win. 

Mike Sperry paced the early Brideshead success with a hot hand from the outside to knot the score at 5-5 and hold I'll Play to an 11-8 halftime count. But I'll Play, who played with­out another Leone's vet Bill Sullivan, poured it on as John Kennedy hit 9-of-13 to lead the winners into the third round. 
Sibling rivalry took on a new meaning on the Stepan courts yesterday when Red Death and the Jammin' Provost slayed Silly English Pigdogs, 21-11. Howie York scored three points for the winners while brother Mike went scoreless for the losers. Red Death had previ­ously outscored its opponents 42-1 before the battle of the Yorks. 
Lou's 2 QB's and Two Blind Guy~ advanced with a 21-13 win over Air Chek and Ground Sup­port. Former Irish basketball player Jeff Peters led the vic­tors with eight points, most coming off strong drives to the hole, while one of Lou's 2 QBs, Tony Rice, added five. The game was marred by a few hos­tile and profane reactions by an Air Chek player to abuse from a partisan segment of the crowd. 
"It was the first serious inci­dent we've had this year," said Bookstore Commissioner Mike Manning. "We didn't react in time to stop it and we regret that we didn't take immediate action. He should have been out of the game as soon as it hap­pened. 
"We realize tempers can flare out there on the court," continued Manning, "but that's not an excuse for unsportsman­like conduct. We can't tolerate this type of action and similiar actions will result in the elim­ination of any players in­volved." 
The Ministers of Pain iced One Wide Reciever, 21-17, in a physical battle yesterday at Stepan. Tim Ryan paced the winners by clearing the boards 
see BOOKSTORE, page 13 
raced past the No. 2 offensive however, scoring points on five receiver Bobby Carpenter for line to pressure the Notre of the last six drives. 20 yards on his first play of the Dame quarterbacks on several Steve Belles led the No. 3 of­47-yard drive against the No. 1 occasions. Alm sacked fense to the first touchdown of defense. Tailback Ricky Wat­Graham two consecutive times the day against the No. 3 ters broke through for 17 yards on one drive. defense following Hackett's two plays later. 
Strong safety George field goal. Belles completed the Watters gained 79 yards on Streeter and outside linebacker only three passes he put up, in­16 rushes, while fellow fresh­Frank Starns also turned in cluding one to split end Pat man Tony Brooks carried the strong performances for the Eilers from 12 yards out for the ball 18 times for 61 yards. top defense. score. Carpenter and Pierre Martin 
Defensive end Andre Jones The No. 1 offense then put its looked promising at receiver and lineman Bryan Flannery first points on the board on a slots. Martin held onto a 16­made big plays for the No. 2 35-yard boot by Hackett, who yard Kent Graham passunit. missed a 44-yarder on an ear­despite a solid hit by D'Juan 
"Our whole football team on lier drive, but the play was nul­Francisco that sent him into a defense is pretty active," Holtz lified by a defensive penalty. somersault. noted. "There aren't as many Junior signal caller Pete "I'm impressed with our holes in the defensive line. We Graham was sent in to replace backs," Holtz said. "They took close the holes a lot quicker Tony Rice after one running some great hits today. than last year." play and two straight illegal "And the quarterback situa-
The offense put it together to procedure penalties. close out the scrimmage, Pete Graham hit freshman see DEFENSE, page 14 

The action becomes more Intense and the big guys start to take over as Bookstore makes the transition from fun and games to a serious bas-
Women's tennis dominates foes 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer  tivities was Jackie Uhll, who defeated Claudine Michaud, 6­2, 6-0.  "I was exceptoionally pleased that everyone got the opportunity to play today, "  
Dominant. This word  sum­ "Our solid six players gave  said  Gelfman.  "I  was  im­ 
marizes the play of the Notre Dame women's tennis team  the rest of the team the oppor­tunity to play in the doubles  pressed with the play of Pacella and Bradshaw. In the  
this weekend. The Irish netters  combination," said Gellman.  beginning they played spotty  
rolled  up  16  victories  while  Gellman was impressed with  but they adjusted and closed in  
dropping only weekend.  one  the entire  the play of the new doubles combinations. The number-one  on the net." On Sunday the  Irish  were  
The first victim of this red  team of Kim Pacella and Cathy  braced for a clash with Purdue.  
hot Irish team was the Univer­ Bradshaw, regularly number­ The Irish expected the match  
sity of Toledo. The Irish dis­ three,  took  advantage  of  its  with the Lady Boilermakers to  
mantled the Rockets by a 8-1  promotion and grinded out a 7­ go to the wire. But Notre Dame  
score. Notre Dame wrapped up  5, 2-6, 6-4 against the regular  found that extra something and  
the match in the singles play,  number-one Toledo tandem of  extinguished the Boilermakers  
allowing Head Coach Michele  Donnelly and Harrah.  8-0.  
Gellman to play everyone on the team.  In other doubles play, the Notre Dame duo of Jackie Uhll  "I was skeptical going into the match," said Gellman.  
In  singles play,  the entire  and Julie Sullivan lost a 6-3, 6-2  "Purdue brought basically the  
team dominated its matches.  decision  to  Lisa  Ambrosetti  same team this year that beat  
Ce Ce Cahill crushed Lisa Don­ and Chantel Van Dyke. But the  us, 6-3, plus  were  were  even  
nelly 6-1, 6-1. In what was the most decisive victory of the day, Michelle Dasso defeated Lisa Ambrosetti, 6-1, 6-0. Not  tandem of Maura Weidner and Pat O'Byrne rallied from losing the first set 5-7 and emerged victorious in three  younger this year." Despite Gellman's reserva­tions the Irish trounced the  
wanting to be left out in fes­ sets, 5-7, 6-2, 6-0.  see TENNIS, pa~e 11  




