·---------~--~---------~--------------~ --­
Nippy and drippy
IACCENT: Spice of variety Mostly sunny and cool today 
with a high in the mid 50s. 
Clouds tonight with a 40 per­
cent chance of rain.
IVIEWPOINT: SBP addresses criticisms 


VOL. XXI, NO. 127 
Dukakis: Victory is in sight 
Associated Press 
Michael Dukakis said Wed­nesday that victory in the Dem­ocratic nomination battle is "visible, but not inevitable" after his impressive New York win. Rival Jesse Jackson promised the presidential con­test will get "even more excit­ing" as it moves to Pennsylva­nia minus Albert Gore. 
"When I look back at Iowa now, there were many of us in this, but now there are three...Bush, Dukakis, and me," Jackson said after finish­ing second in New York. 
Democratic leaders across the country talked of Dukakis as the party's likely standard­bearer in the fall, while Repub­lican nominee-apparent George Bush said he looked for­ward to battling the Massachu­setts governor, calling him "an old-world liberal Democrat." 
"New York ...almost locks it up for Dukakis, or comes close to it," said Sen. John Glenn of Ohio, who sought the 1984 nomination. 
"It won't be a brokered con­vention. It'll be a first-ballot 
victory  for  Dukakis,"  said  
Democratic  National  
Committee  member  Fred  

Brown from Coffeyville, Okla. 
The focus of the Democratic campaign turned to Pennsylva­nia, with 178 delegates at stake next Tuesday. 
Democratic National Com­mittee chairman Paul Kirk cautioned that Dukakis has not locked up the nomination -yet. Quoting a baseball maxim, Kirk said, "It ain't over 'til it's over." 
But in contrast to earlier worries about a splintered con­vention in Atlanta in July, Kirk talked of "a very wholesome, positive unifying convention." He lauded both candidates, saying "these two who are going to be contending for the nomination down to the end" present "a real opportunity for forging a coalition to win in the fall." 
"These two" that Kirk referred to did not include Gore, the big loser in New York. 
110 visit 
By ROBYN SIMMONS News Staff 
The students and staff of Notre Dame welcomed 110 minority students already ac­cepted to the University during the Minority Visitation Weekend held last week. 
More than 80 percent of the students who attended the Minority Visitation Weekend are expected to attend Notre 
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

I he Observer I Trey Raymond 
Getting slammed 
The dynamic duo of "Batman and Robin" head for the hoop in the annual slam dunk contest, part of the An Tostal festivities. 
Lines turn into 

mob at 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN 
News Editor 
Long lines of students in the corridors of O'Shaughnessy Hall collapsed into mobs Wed­nesday night as students at­tempted to register for check­marked courses. 
The worst conditions were in 
the lines for checkmarked the­
ology courses, called "a 
nightmare" by one student. 
"It turned from a line to sort of a gathering," said junior Dave Lese. "It's way too hot," he added. 
According to junior Brendan Cahill, the line for theology courses ran down the third floor hallway in O'Shaughnessy and back towards the department door. "They all collapsed as soon as the door opened," he added. 
Attempts to restore order to the theology line proved to be futile. "They keep saying how they'd stop registration until we got orderly," said junior Kathy Epping. 
Cries of "please, please pull this back" by one woman in the theology department went unheeded by the crowd. 
Sonia Gernes, associate pro­fessor of English and one of the people staffing the checkmark sign-ups, said, "We've had problems with the line because students aren't staying in it." 
A Security officer arrived at about 7: 45 in response to a call and told the crowd to reform a line. "I can't do it for you; you have to do it yourselves," he told the crowd. 
Shortly thereafter, the Secur­

O'Shag 
ity officer left, saying "it's not 
my problem." 
A member of the Security de­partment said Security was not scheduled to staff check­marked course registration and didn't know it was taking place until they received a call early Wednesday evening. Nei­ther Rex Rakow, director of Se­curity, nor Phil Johnson, assis­tant director of Security, could be reached for comment Wed­nesday night. 
Some arts and letters depart­ments reported no problems with checkmark lines Wednes­day. "The students moved along well," said Father Leonard Banas, assistant chairman of the modern and classical languages depart­ment. Professor Stuart Goetz of the philosophy department said the lines there were "very civilized." 
Four Arts and Letters de­partments had "checkmark course forms available in their respective rooms from 7 p.m. ­-8:30p.m.," according to a let­ter mailed to juniors for ad­vance registration. The advance registration letter mailed to students asked stu­dents not to form lines prior to 5:30p.m., but this was ignored by students. 
"We got here at 5:00 and there was a line," said one stu­dent who asked not to be iden­tified. "The people in front are just getting in," she added. "The people at the end got in first." 
Enforcement of the 'prior to 
see MOB, page 3 
Hijackers given safe passage out of Algeria 
Associated Press ALGIERS, Hijackers with  Algeria­"eyes of  since hijacking Kuwait Air­ways Flight 422 on April 5 on a flight from Bangkok to the Per­sian Gulf sheikdom with 112  the U.S. and French embassies in December 1983. Among the passengers on the Boeing 747 were three cousins  hostages came out" at 6 a.m. -three hours into the 16th day of the hijacking. The number of hijackers had previously been  
sharks" slipped away Wednes­day after wiping their fin­gerprints from a Kuwaiti jet, and 31 hostages stumbled from the aircraft that was a prison of fear, brutality and death for 15 days. The Shiite Moslem gunmen  people aboard. They agreed to free their remaining hostages after ar­ranging safe passage with Al­gerian officials who mediated a settlement. The hijackers had demanded that Kuwait free 17 pro~Iranians convicted  of the Kuwaiti ruler, Sheik Jaber Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah. Kuwait's official news agency KUNA, citing Algerian sources it did not identify, said "five hijackers left the plane, then about 10 minutes later, four other pirates left the  estimated at seven or eight. According to the agency, the hijackers were assured safe passage to either Beirut or Teh­ran. A Soviet-built transport plane belonging to the Algerian  
had murdered two passengers  and  imprisoned for  bombing  plane.  Following  that  the  see HIJACK, page 5  

ND for Minority Visitation Weekend 
Dame next year, according to dents a chance to see the opportunity to meet depart­"Probably the most impor­Marty Rodgers, student campus," said Rodgers, ment chairpersons, members tant thing he said to (the stu­recruitment coordinator. Many "(and) also the chance to see of the faculty, hall rectors, rep­dents) was telling them a story of these students are Notre the committment of Father resentatives of student organi­about the academic problems Dame scholars. Malloy." zations and minority alumni. he experienced his freshman 
A total of 550 minority stu­University President Father "I think the one that really year and now being the presi­dents have been accepted for Edward Malloy has already in­hit home was when they were dent of a university," said next year's freshman class, dicated that a goal for the Uni­addressed by Monk Malloy," Gandy. and 50 percent of those students versity is to have 15 percent said Derek Gandy, admissions In addition to the faculty are expected to confirm their minority population by 1992. counselor, "They were really greetings, the visiting students acceptance. The students who attended impressed with how down to made appointments with the 
"The main purpose (of the the weekend activities were ad­earth he is as a priest and as a weekend) is to give the stu-dressed by Malloy and had the university president.'' see VISIT, page 3 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, April 21, 1988 


Of Interest 
U.M.O.C., Ugly Man On Campus, will be accepting 
votes at the Information Desk in LaFortune Student Center 
from 7 to 9 p.m. today and Friday. The proceeds will go 
in the Notre Dame-Jane M. Beres Memorial Leukemia 
Fund. The winner will be announced at Saturday's An 
Tostal dance. Donations may also be sent to: Notre Dame­
Jane M. Beres Leukemia Fund, Trustcorp. Bank, LaFor­
tune Student Center, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.-The Obser­
ver 
David Brooks will give a slide show on "The Popular 
Memorial for Los Quemados in Santiago Chile." The 
presentation will be held today at 12:30 p.m. in 283 the 
Galvin Life Science Center. -The Observer 
A campus-wide blood drive will conclude today from 12:30 to 4 p.m. at the Knights of Columbus Hall. Those who have not signed up may drop by and give blood. The event is sponsored by Circle K and the Knights of Columbus. -The Observer 
Senior Month ticket sales will be next Monday through Thursday from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Student Center. Tickets for Senior Month and Senior Week Events must be purchased during this time. ­
The Observer 
The An Tostal picnic scheduled for 4 p.m. today at Saint Mary's College will be cancelled in the event of rain. If there are any questions, call Anne at 284-5073. -The Observer 
Notre Dame MBA students are sponsoring a Jump-a-thon to Fight Cancer. The event will be held from noon today to noon Friday on the Fieldhouse Mall. The jump-a-thon will feature "campus celebrity" jumpers and donations will go to the American Cancer Society. For a schedule of celebrity jumpers, call Paula Kostolansky at 277-0735. -The Observer 
VanderCook College of Music will present a concert at Washington Hall auditorium today at 7 p.m.. This three-part concert will feature VanderCook's Show Choir and their Wind Ensemble and Jazz Band as well as instrumental performances. Classical and contemporary works will be played. -The Observer 
Those graduating in May who have obtained student loans must attend an exit interview. The final one will be held today at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater at LaFor­tune Student Center.-The Observer 
A final task force forum will be held to answer questions and hear responses regarding the residentiality and alcohol task force reports. The meetings will be held today at 6:30 p.m. at Keenan for Breen-Phillips, Zahm, and Keenan and at 9 p.m. at Fisher for Pangborn, Lyons and Fisher. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame N.A.A.C.P. Academic Success Speaker Series presents Professor Erskine Peters from the Department of English and the Department of Black Studies speaking on "Your African Heritage and Aca­demic Excellence" today at 8 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy.­
The Observer 
Senior Formal proofs will be on display in the lobby 
of LaFortune Student Center today through Monday at 5 
p.m. For information contact Christopher Lower at 239­5465. -The Observer 
"The Brundtland Report: The Threat to Our Common Future" will be the topic of a lecture by Thomas Malone from St. Joseph College in West Hartford, Connec­ticut. The lecture, sponsored by the Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies, will be in Room 121 of the Law School today at 4 p.m. -The Observer 
Leo Despres will speak on "Macrotheories, Macro­context, and the Informal Sector: Case Studies in Brazil" today at 4 p.m. in Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 
---Ih-. e-Obse.-----~~r-­
-.L-=Y=--'-' ---
Deaign Editor ................. Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Copy Editor . Brian Broderick Deaign A..iatant . . .. . Kim Evans Accent Layout. .. .... Rachel O'Hara Typesetters... . ..... Mike Buc Typist .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . Lynsey Strand ............................................ Smed Laboe ND Day Editor .. .. .............. David Lee News Editor .......................... Jim Riley SMC Day Editor .. . .......... Joanna Grilla Copy Editor.. ... Erin Lynch Photographer...... .. ....... Trey Reymond Sparta Copy Editor.......... . ... Pete Skiko 
TM Ollelner (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. TM Oblerrer is published by the students of the \Jnivcnity of Notre Dame and Saint Muy's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (52~ per semester) by writina TM Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiana46~56. 
TM Olllener is a member of TM Mlodated Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
Boyfriendgirlfriend? 

Or are we 
Love knows no bounds. It also knows no def­initions, no explanations, no logical terms to describe it. Everyone, at one time or another, tries to 
describe whatever relationship he or she might be in, especially if it is a new and previously undefined relationship. 
If you try to avoid description, good luck. "Friends" inevitably force some kind of defi­nition or explanation by asking outright what the situation is. They don't understand that they are forcing you to define the undefinable, ex­plain the inexplicable, give shape to the intan­gible. They just don't realize they are making you state what you more than anything would like to avoid putting into words. 
So, in order not to give the "wrong" answer, the key is to memorize several "right" answers, depending on the situation, and to reel off the answers as though you really analyzed your feelings and knew what you were talking about. 
The questions and corresponding answers usually vary by degree of commit­menVemotional attachment. Beginning with the least commitment: 

• Are you dating? 
This is fairly easy to answer without commit­ting yourself very much. After all, what is "dat­ing?" Maybe going to movies or parties to­gether? Meeting for dinner at the dining hall? Going to more than one SYR with the same person? You are fairly safe in saying "Yeah, I guess we're kind of dating." But to be really safe, stress that you also date other people. 
• Are you seeing each other? 
This doesn't refer to sight, and it asks for a little more commitment than "dating" does. It implies that you are, temporarily at least, somewhat attached to whomever you are "see­ing." It involves more of an emotional commit­ment than merely doing things together--it usually means you like to do things together. But again, to be safe you could add that you'd like to see other people, or that this is just a temporary arrangement. 
• Are you going out? 
Again, this is a little stronger than "seeing each other." Commitment at some level is definitely implied. The person you're going out with can be construed as your boyfriemilgirlfriend, which leads to ... 
• Are you, like, boyfriendgirZfriend? 
This must be asked with a giggle, with "like" always included, and with 
Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 

THE WALLETS 
LIVE 
Minnesota Music Awards 
Best Rock Band -'85 and Rand of the Year -'84 this Thursday night 9:30 
at Theodore's 
LAST YEAR'S BIGGEST 
ATTRACTION IS BACK!! 


DON'T MISS IT! 





just dating? 

"boyfriendgirlfriend" pronounced as one word. It belongs in the same group as "Are you, like, going to the Mall?" and "Dude, like, check out my new skateboard." The best answer you could possibly give is an emphatic "no." Regardless of whether or not you are, like, boyfriendgirlfriend, this is a silly question and attaches a silly label to you. 
Now, to avoid giving a direct answer to any question but to still give some answer so as not to be asked again, you could always give a longer explanation: "Well, we're really good friends and we do alot together and we like to spend time together and we have alot in com­mon" is generally an effective explanation. 
My favorite, for myself, is: "I'm in like." 
The only problem with this one occurs when you begin to pass the like-phase and enter into the serious commitmenVemotional attachment phase. Then. you might have to say the Capital L word, as in "I'm in L ---." 
Then, once you admit that to yourself, you will probably have to admit it to the person you're in L---with. That means saying "I L­
--you." If you've reached this phase, you're on your own. No form answers can guide you now. 
r------------.----------------------------------------------------------------------~----------­
Thursday, April21, 1988 
The Observer page 3 
Iran mobilizes to face u.s. 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iran began full mobilization Wed­nesday to confront the United States and Iraq, and it fired a missile into Kuwait that repor­tedly fell near a U.S.-run oil­field. Iraq fired missiles into three Iranian cities. 
The official Islamic Republic News Agency said Iranian forces killed or wounded 300 Iraqis and captured more than 250 in the Shemiran mountain region of Kurdistan in northern Iraq. 
Iraq claimed its forces were mopping up Iranian pockets of resistance in Iraq's southern Faw peninsula after recaptur­ing the region two years after the Iranians overran it. 
Iraq also said it would stop bombarding Iranian cities beginning at midnight (4 p.m. EDT> as long as Iran did the same, the Iraqi News Agency reported. 
There was no immediate response from Iran. Hundreds have been killed in the ex­changes since Feb. 29 and two cease-fires lasted only a few days. 
After the Iraqi announce­ment but before midnight, Iraq said it fired missiles into Teh­ran, Isfahan and Shiraz. Teh­ran radio reported a strike on Tehran and said civilians were killed. 
The clashes with the U.S. navy and the unexpected Iraqi recapture of the Faw Peninsula -the first major Iraqi offensive in two years-clearly have jolted the Iranians. 
The radio said all volunteers, known as "basij," should report to bases throughout the country "and get ready for departure" to the battlefront. 
The broadcast made no men­tion of numbers, but Iranian leaders have claimed up to 5 million Iranians were trained in the last six months. 
The U.S. navy sank an Iranian patrol boat, crippled two frigates and set two of­fshore oil platforms on fire Monday in the worst clashes with the Iranians since the Navy buildup in July last year to curb Iranian attacks on ship­ping. 
Iranian TV showed a cere­mony in the gulf port of Bus­hehr, where senior military of­ficials lauded the bravery of the crew of the patrol boat Jos­han, which was sunk by the 
U.S. navy. Iran has said 15 of the Joshan's crew were killed and 29 wounded. 
The clashes prompted Lloyd's of London insurers to double their rates on ships traveling to the gulf. 


The Observer 1 Trey Raymond 

Mighty midget 
New Leprechaun Ray Lopez announces at the slam dunk contest in one his first official appearances as Leprechaun. 

Visit 
continued from page 1 
Admissions and Financial Aid Departments. 
"The students' reaction seemed to be really positive," said Rodgers. "There were some students who weren't ac­tually considering Notre Dame who are considering Notre Dame now." 
Although academic life was emphasized during the weekend, there were several social events, including a mixer, bowling night, and a dinnerAiance. An inter­denominational prayer service was offered in addition to Sat­urday evening Mass. 
All of the visiting students stayed on campus with other minority students currently en­rolled at Notre Dame. "I really believe the perceptions of the students about the professors and the school are the things that are really important," said Ken Durgans, director of minority student affairs. 
Gandy described the stu­dents as, "very good students (and) very intelligent. They had well-prepared questions. It was obvious they were good thinkers." 
"I think the main concern was probably where exactly a minority student fits in at Notre Dame, and what are the sup­port groups and networks available to minority students for both academics and non­academics," said Gandy. 
"I've had some phone calls from those students expressing their appreciation," said Gandy, "I've actually had some students who returned home crying--they actually didn't want to leave." 
Mob 
continued from page 1 
5:30' rule would have been "counterproductive," said Gernes. She added that she had heard complaints, but that there were no more complaints than usual. 
"No one's gotten hurt," said Gernes. "It's been orderly in terms of behavior." 
But many students still ex­pressed dissatisfaction with the process. 
"It's like the stock market," said junior Greg Kinzelman. "It's not a line, it's an orderly mess." 

~-~-------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, April 21, 1988
page 4 The Observer 

ND nets grants of more than $1M 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame received $1,061,695 in grants during March for the support of re­search and various programs. Research fund totaled $783,664, including: 
• 
$132,275 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Morton Fuchs, chair­man and professor of biological sciences, on the reproductive physiology of Aedes mosquitoes. 

• 
$123,588 from Upjohn Co. for unrestricted research by Jacob Szmuszkovicz adjunct professor of chemistry, and Thomas Fehlner, professor of chemistry. 

• 
$95,000 from the U.S. De­partment of Energy for re­search by John LoSecco, asso­ciate professor of physics, in non-accelerator high energy physics. 

• 
$61,650 from the National Science Foundation for studies of the theory of several com­plex variables by Wilhelm Stoll, professor of mathema­tics, and Pit-Mann Wong, pro­fessor of mathematics. 

• 
$55,000 from International Business Machines for re­search by J. Kerry Thomas, Nieuwland professor of science in the chemistry department, on photochemical mechanisms of photolithographic imaging systems. 

• 
$50,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Frederick Goetz, as­sociate professor of biological sciences, on ovulation in fish. 

• 
$448,490 from Sandia Na­tional Labs for research SBR technology in biodegradation of wastes by Robert Irvine, pro­fessor of civil engineering, Lloyd Ketchum, associate pro­fessor of civil engineering, and Charles Kulpa, associate pro­fessor of biological sciences. 

• 
$40,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on complete surfaces in three-space by Brian Smyth, professor of mathematics, and Frederico Xavier, associate professor. 

• 
$38,900 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Steven Buechler, as­sociate professor of mathema­tics, on geometrical stability theory. 

• 
$35,000 from the National Aeronauatics and Space Ad­ministration Ames Research Center for research on vortex control by Robert Nelson, as­


sociate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and Tsun-Ming Terry Ng, as­sistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
• 
$31,300 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Julia Knight, profes­sor of mathematics, on the recursive model theory. 

• 
$27,400 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Nancy Stanton, pro­fessor of mathematics, on eigenvalues of complex laplacians. 

• 
$22,500 from the Occidental Chemical Corp. for research by Charles Kulpa, associate pro­fessor of biological sciences, on biodegradative activities of bacteria in liquid-Solid phase. 

• 
$7,492 from Little City Foundation for research by David Cole, assistant professor of psychology, on the social in­tegration of handicapped children. 

• 
$5,069 from J.M. Mold Inc. for research by D. Chris Ander­son, professor of psychology, on OBM application to J.M. Mold. 

• 
$4,000 from the Association of Theology Schools for re­search by Jean Laporte, asso­ciate professor of theology, on Origen's sacramental theol­ogy. 

• 
$4,000 from the Indiana Commission on the Humanities for research by Thomas Jemielity, associate professor of English, on the Hebrew prophet in the satirist's mask. 

• 
$1,500 from the University of Oklahoma for research by David Lodge, assistant profes­sor of biological sciences, or predator-prey interactions. 


Awards from instructional programs totaled $10,000, in­cluding: 

The Observer I Trey Raymond 
Loony tunes 
Finishing off Wicked Wednesday's events, energetic contest held at Theodore's. students mimic Metallica in the An Tostal air band 
• $5,000 from the Lilly En-ministered by Nathan Hatch, dowment Inc., for Lilly course associate dean of the College of development by Theresa Krier, Arts and Letters and director assistant professor of English. of the Institute for Scholarship 
in the Liberal Arts. 
• $5,000 from the Lilly En­dowment Inc. for research by • $34,024 from the National Charlene Avallone, assistant 
•!1!1.1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!!1!1.1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!!1!1.1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!!1!1.1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1!1! 
professor of English, on divi­sion in 19th century literature of the United States. 
Awards for service pro­grams totaled $34,007 from private benefactors for pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
• $200,000 from the National Endowment for the Humanitites for faculty devel­opment in the humanities, ad-


Pac & Ship 1 09 Dixieway North STUDENTS 
~et us send your goods home. We'll supply the boxes, pack and seal them for you! BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE 50c 
·······················-~ 
~<J;-X>! llil Pac & Ship : ~~ -~~~G : This Coupon Good For i 8~'o~~€Ji> '?c,"'-0 .: 50c OFF : C'f-:' 
~ I 
I I 
• Congratulations ~s Class of '88 
Especially for: 
Endowment for the Humanities for work by Karl Ameriks, professor of philoso­phy, on Kant's lectures on metaphysics. 
Awards for other programs totaled $234,024. 

John Perez Jerry Roughtely Scott Connolly Tim Oliver Marilyn Lauren Zano Liz Murphy Patti Tripathy and Tim Brown Andrew Sohple 

1213 Lincolnway East, Mishawaka 
We will also be open 
256-1444 
Sunday, May 15th Love, Maria 

Make Reservations Now 


Thursday, April 21 , 1988 The Observer page 5 

Stealth bomber is now visible to the public eye 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Air Force, lifting a decade-long veil of secrecy, released pic­tures of its Stealth bomber on Wednesday and said the plane would make its first test flight this fall. 
As disclosed in 1985 by former Sen. Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz., the flew long-range strategic bomber resembles a big "flying win~ ' with no fuselage in the middle. 
The Stealth bomber, offi­cially designated the B-2, takes its nickname from the fact it is designed to fly without showing up on radar. 
Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chair­man of the Senate Armed Ser­vices Committee, predicted the bomber ''will render obsolete billions of dollars of Soviet in­vestment in their current air defense." 
The Air Force said in a state­ment that it was beginning to lift its secrecy surrounding the plane because of the approach of the maiden flight sometime this fall. 
Such details as performance characteristics, crew size and maximum payload remain classified, however, the Air Force said. 
Indeed, some of the details about the plane's design -for ex­ample, the placement of the en­gine exhaust outlets-have been deliberately masked in the art­ist's rendering released Wed­nesday, service sources said. 
The Air Force did acknowl­edge. though, that its cost esti­mate for the Stealth bomber program was now being revised. 
"While the acquisition of 132 B-2 bombers was originally es­timated to cost $36.6 billion in 1981 dollars, the Air Force is re-evaluating cost estimates for the program as a result of current and projected fiscal constraints," it said. 
"When that process is com­pleted later this year, the Air Force will release those up­dated figures." 
Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, just last month described as "probably unrealistic" the Air Force's original cost estimate for the B-2. 

The flying wing design has long been the object of ex­perimentation by Northrop. The company flew a propeller­driven version of such a plane, known as the XB-35, in 1946. 
A jet-powered version, the 
Souper 
YB-49, first flew in late 1947 and was tested by the Air Force. But the service never pur­chased any of the planes and experimentation with the prototypes ended by the early 1950s. 
l 

The Northrop Corp., which is building the plane for the Air Force, is known to have suf­fered some overruns and schedule delays, having writ­ten off more than $200 million on the project in recent years. 
Prospective buyers exclaim over Campbell's Tomato The possessions of the late artist will be auctioned soup can replicas, part of the Andy Warhol collection over ten days starting Saturday. on display prior to auction at Sotheby's, New York. 
''Dadwas right.You get wliat youpayfor.~~ 

More people choose AT&T over any other long distance service. Because, with AT&T, it costs less than you think to get the service you expect, like clearer connections, 24-hour AT&Toperator assistance, instant credit on wrong numbers. And the assurance that we can put virtually every one of your calls through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. 
So when it's time to make a choice, remember, it pays to choose AT&T 
Ifvou'd like to know more about our products or services, like the AT& T Card, call us at I 800 222-0300. 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 


Hijack 
continued from page 1 
air force took off shortly before dawn. It is rare for military aircraft to use the civilian Houari Boumedienne airport and there was speculation that some or all the hijackers were aboard. 
Algerian officials would not discuss the flight or its oc­cupants. KUNA quoted Mohammed Taber, a member of the Algerian negotiating team, as saying without elaboration that the hijackers were "still here." 
Interior Minister Hedi Khediri, who led the Algerian mediators, announced the drama's end without giving details and said the fate of the hijackers was the "concern of Algeria" alone. 
Floodlights had bathed the blue-and-white jet nightly since it landed in the North African capital on April 13, but were extinguished at 9 p.m. Tues­day. 
-------~------­Saint Mary's Coli~~ 
NOTRE DAME ·I NOlAN~ 
PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
FRIDAY, APRIL22 • 8 P.M. 
O'lAUGHUN AUDITORIUM 

TICKETS: $7.SO, $6.50, $5.50 ,1\VAll.ABLE AT lliE BOX OFFICE 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 284-4626 
VISA, MASTERCARD ACCEPTED 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, April21, 1988 


Mentalist The Amazing Kreskin leads a seance to contact the spirit of Elvis Presley in a Nashville recording studio. About a dozen loyal fans later fell to their knees as Kreskin played "Love Me Tender." 
Japanese-Americans may receive payments 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate voted Wednesday to give $20,000 tax-free payments to thousands of Japanese­Americans who were forced from their homes and sent to internment camps during World War II. 
Final passage came on a 69­27 vote after an emotional debate in which senators recalled the sometimes-harsh treatment and financial losses suffered by about 120,000 Japanese-Americans who were interned after Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on Dec. 7, 1941. 
The bill would require the United States government to apologize for the mass roun­dups and would make each of the estimated 60,000 survivors eligible for $20,000 payments. A similar bill already has passed the House. 
On votes of 67-30 and 61-35, the Senate defeated attempts to strip the bill of the payments, while retaining the apology. It then voted 91-4 to kill an amendment proposed by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., to with­hold payments until Japan compensated American families for losses suffered at Pearl Harbor. 
At one point, Sen. Spark Mat­sunaga, D-Hawaii, was brought to tears as he told of an elderly Japanese-American internee being killed by machine-gun fire when he strayed too close to a camp fence. 
But Sen. Malcolm Wallop, R­Wyo., argued that the intern­ment "was not a dishonorable act, it was the option of a nation in the first days of a war." 
Sen. Daniel Inouye, D­Hawaii, a Japanese-American who lost his right arm in com­bat with the Army in Italy, said: "these payments ac­knowledge the unconstitutional deprivation of liberty...and the stigma of being deemed un­loyal." 
Opponents, in addition to ob­jections over the payments, complained about a statement in the bill that the internment "was caused by racial preju­dice, war hysteria and a failure 
" 




ND, area researchers work on medical diagnostic tools 
Special to The Observer 
Researchers from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame have joined colleagues from two Chicago-area universities in an interdisciplinary engineering research center that will work to develop healthier and far less expensive medical diag­nostic tools with equal or su­perior capabilities. 
Participating engineers from Notre Dame, the University of Illinois at Chicago, and Northwestern University will work together with facutly from several Chicago-area medical schools and teaching hospitals to advance the field of signal and image processing in medicine, according to Robert Gordon, vice president of advanced studies at Notre Dame. 
The Engineering Research Center for Signal and Image Processing and Medical Appli­cations (SIPMA) will have its primary facilities at UIC, he said. The multi-institutional or­ganization of the center will 
provide its  researchers  with  
access to (magnetic  costly resonance  MRI im­ 

aging), CAT Scan, holography and other signal and image pro­cessing (SIP) equipment never available within a single insti­tution. 
According to Anthony Mic­hel, dean-elect of Notre Dame's College of Engineering and Freimann professor of electri­cal engineering, Notre Dame's engineers bring to the effort strengths in signal and imageprocessing and systems con­

$9.99 Pan Pizza Dinner Special 
Includes a large Deep-Dish Sicilian or 14" Pan Brio.!> pizza (with up to 3 toppings) and 2 orders ofbreadsticks. 
Drink."' not induc...ll·d. Not valkl with any otht·r <.:«JUP(JO (Jf cJi~o,unt. 


GOTO MEDICAL SCHOOL 
Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and paid in full-plus earn more than $600 a month while you attend school. 
Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the Army, Navy or Air Force. 
If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as a commissioned officer in the Reserves. 
After graduation, you'll serve three years or more-:depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive-as a respected 
Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great ben and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical technology. 
If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice-and want to cut the expense of medical school 
well the particular strengths of the other institutions," he said. Michel is among the team of engineers from Notre Dame participating in the research center. 
The main goal of the center is to develop equipment that will provide physicians and surgeons the clearest and cleanest possible view or image of a section of the body, in three dimensions, with the ability to rotate and to change the viewing angle. It's also con­ceivable, Michel said, that the dosages of radiation or of dyes used with certain equipment may be reduced for otherwise comparable results, which will benefit the patient's well­being. 
An example of SIPMA's goals can be seen in the re­search of Notre Dame's Ruey­wen Liu, professor of electrical engineering. Liu is studying how the processing of ultrasound images might be improved to provide a clear image. If ultrasound images could be improved, Liu said, this diagnostic tool might be used in place of more expensive and less portable CAT Scan equipment, which in the end will make diagnosis more ac­cessible and affordable for the patient. 
Other SIPMA research proj­ects by Notre Dame engineers include studies to improve the sharing of medical information through computer networking by David Cohn, professor of electrical engineering; inves­tigations into the satellite transmission of medical images by Daniel Costello, pro­fessor of electrical engineeri­ng, and research in dis­criminating between relevant and irrelevant information in medical signal and image data reduction. 
The Observer is looking for 

who are interested in writing 

MEETING Sunday 5:00 Pm 
Contact Beth Healy if interested. 
Dinnerfor 2Just $5.99 
Includes your choice ofa medium Deep· 
Dish Sicilian pia.a or a 12" lfand·lhssed 
Round or I 0" P'.tn Brio· with I topping 
and I order ofhreadsticko;. 
I>rink.' 11( Hinchu..Jt.:U Not \'alid wilh any other 
o mptm t >r di!'lc.."t mm. 

YES1Send me full dt:la1ls D• .now lhe Armed Forces Health Profass1ons Scholarship Program 
• can help cut my medical school expenses. I meellhe age requuements noted below. I understand I am under no obligation Maillhls coupon lo: Armed Forces Scholarships. P.O. Box 2865 Hunlinglon Sta11on, NY 11746·2102 9012 
Check up 10 lhree: 0 Almy -0 Novy 0 Air Force 12t·5l rears of age) UI·:U years of agel 119·35 yurs of •t•l Please prm1 all mlormat•on clearly and compltlely 
Name•.....,,.,::-,------;...,==••"'"""""'=,----.,-"",---l JMale 0 Female 
Address ____________Apt. /1---;:::;:::::;::::;::::::;::::;
-send for more information today. 
_____z,pl I I I I I 
Soc. Sec. No. O::::r:J CIJ I I I I I B1rth OateCIJ CIJ CIJ 

Mo ~ Yta1 
Gradua11on Da1eL.L.J CIJ 
Mo 'fUI purposes only The mou! complele 1l•s.1h1 
r-----------------------------­



Viewpoint
Thursday, April 21, 1988 page 7 
P.O. Box Q 

SBP responds to criticism 
Dear Editor: 
Under normal circumstances, we would not respond to criticisms rooted in ignorance. However, because the Student Senate for the 1988-89 school year is comprised of new, energetic, intelligent and concerned students, we shall make a special exception by ad­dressing Jeff Woode's letter of April15 criticizing the Student Senate. 
The discussion leading up to a deci­sion whether or not to include seniors' responses in the survey;questionaire for the task force reports on "The Whole Health Use and Abuse of Alcohol" and "Residentiality" was not made in spite of Dr. Murphy's recommendations but rather in light of them. His suggestion was that seniors not be included in the statistical tabulation for fear they may skew the results. Acknowledging this fact, we decided to include them in the 
survey, yet tabulate their results sepa­rately. Thus, we do not consider it "unintelligent, foolish, unreason-able, irrational or lacking in foresight" to make special efforts to collect the opinion of those students who have the most experience and insight into two issues that strike the heart of residence life at Notre Dame, Alcohol and Residentiality. 
We would like to invite you, as well 
as any member of the Notre Dame com­munity, to attend the Senate meetings which are held on Mondays at 6:00p.m. in the Notre Dame room of LaFortune, to discover that those people who you elected "truly do represent the people they say they do." 
Tom Doyle Student Body President Mike Paese Student Body Vice President April19,1988 
SMC  election  
quirks  addressed  
Dear Editor:  

We are writing in response to Miss Rucker's Viewpoint article concerning Saint Mary's elections. As it is true in any situation, there are two sides to every story. We as members of the 1987­88 student government would like to respond to the questions and state" ments submitted by Miss Rucker on Tuesday, April12. 
The 1987-88 student government has faced many challenging issues over the past year including the NDSMC Gay and Lesbian Society, increased student involvement, library hours, AIDS, the Chili Project, date rape and the elec­tions procedures. Anyone could have followed our progress by reading the paper or even asking a representative on student government. 
As for the election in February 1988, the Reilly ticket submitted petitions for a recount and a revote using the correct procedures. Student government ac­cepted these petitions and addressed them immediately. The discrepancy found during the recount did not affect the end result. Mter careful consider­ation and much debate, a typed full page letter from the Election Commit­tee was submitted to the candidates and The Observer as a response to the revote petition. It should be noted that the Election Commissioner cannot con­sider conducting a recount or a revote purely upon a candidate's request until the proper petitions have been officially submitted. The potential for a revote did not occur until5:45 p.m. on Friday, February 26, just as the polls for the run-off election were about to close. 

Members of student government do not believe that making an issue out of the election procedures was an embar­rassment to the school or would make student government a "mockery." We believe that we dealt with the issue in an appropriate manner and handled it in such a way so that it would not have affected the other remaining candi­dates in a negative way. 
The other problems that occurred due to the written form of the election procedures were brought to our atten­tion and have been addressed. We have been discussing rewriting the Saint Mary's Student Government Constitu­tion since January. Members of the Board of Governance, Programming Board and hall and class boards have been aware of this and had the oppor­tunity to submit and voice their opinions as the representatives of the student body. This is their job, is it not? 
On March 22, 1988, the Board of Governance, as outlined in the consti­tution, unanimously adopted the amended constitution. This includes over 20 amendments strictly concern­ing the electoral process. The fact that the 1987-88 student government promptly addressed and rectified the existing flaws in the system shows a desire to uphold the integrity and ideals of Saint Mary's College. We encourage all students to read the new constitu­tion. It is not locked away in a box: It to ask his opinion on all issues? Does she believe this should be the case at Saint Mary's? As a student worker in the Student Activities office, Miss Rucker is well aware of who represents the student body and how the student government system works. Why did she wait until one month before her gradua­tion to voice her words of wisdom? 
Miss Rucker was also aware of and involved in the electoral process in the spring of 1987. If she felt that the elec­tion procedures were such a great in­justice to the members of the Saint Mary's student body, why didn't she attempt to discuss this with a represen­tative on student government earlier? Why didn't she ever attend a Board of Governance meeting to voice her opinions? Why didn't she write a View­point in The Observer prior to the elec­tions so that we could have addressed the issue sooner and made the proper changes? This is a "curious" thing. 
During the upcoming hall elections, we hope students will see evidence of the changes made in the electoral process. The balloting and counting procedures have been corrected and will be efficient. 
We also hope students will see how important their input is. We in student government cannot see all flaws; we need others to help us look at the cur­rent system, evaluate it and make im­provements. 
Finally, we stand by all the decisions made by the 1987-88 student govern­ment because we believe we have ac­cepted challenges and upheld the ideals of our fine institution. 
Eileen Hetterich, 1987-88 Student Body President Smith Hashagen, 1987-88 Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs Frannie Thompson, 1987-88 Elections Commissioner Sarah Cook Julie Grieb Janel Hamann Angie LeJeune Jill Winterhalter Leigh Ann Donnelly Saint Mary's College April 14, 1988 



is open to all; it is YOUR constitution .....-----------------, because ALL students are members of 
The Observer welcomes your

student government. Miss Rucker, as a senior Government 
letters and columns. Please 

major, should recognize the democracy 
address them to The Observer, of her student government. Is it realis­
PO Box Q, Notre Dame IN 46556.
tic to think that the President of the United States would call every citizen L..--------------~ 

Quote of the Day 
"It is the height of absurdity 
to  sow  little  but  weeds  in  
the  first  half  of  one's  life­ 
time and  expect  to  harvest  

a valuable crop in the sec­ond half." 

Percy Johnston 



Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, leHers and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leHers, is encouraged. 
Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ............... Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager ................. Linda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ................ ..... Bernadene Shi"s Viewpoint Editor ................................. Man Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager... .. ......... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 



Accent
page 8 Thursday, April 21, 1988 
Remembering the spice of life 
W
alking down Michigan Ave­nue after a day of shop­ping last Saturday, one of my friends groaned at the thought of returning to campus, "Back to reality now." 
I groaned as well. but then realized that we were actually leaving one reality and heading made of besides final exams, 
levis and Notre Dame sweat­shirts. and dorm room or off­campus parties. 
Life is made of rude sales ladies at Saks Fifth Avenue who stand between you and a dress insisting that you "please let them help you with anything caught up in all of that though, and then none of it is as worthwhile as it should or could be. 

In the Windy City this weekend, I did a lot of people watching. I checked out what people were wearing and en­
joyed seeing people with their 
own senses of style, wearing 
things few people on this 
campus would dare to wear. I 
overheard conversations, 
laughing along with some and 
taking time to think about 
others. 
I watched as people scurried across the street. laden with groceries or briefcases, seeming anxious to get home and get rid of those things. 
Even though I lost quite a few valuable hours that could have been spent on the gov­ernment paper I ended up writing in the wee hours of Monday morning, my trip to Chicago renewed me. Variety is the spice of life, or so they say, and it's truly amazing what a pinch or two of a change of 
pace can do for your outlook. 
and street corner clowns who

Mary Berger 
make you laugh. Life is women 
selling roses on the street and 
grade school kids selling choc­

Back in the Highlife olate bars for their sports 

back to another, one that is sometimes a little backwards, which we call home for four years. 
I love this place as much as any other Domer. Going into my senior year, I envy the freshmen-to-be who will be ar­riving this fall, eyes and arms wide open to embrace all that we are and have here. At the same time. as I enter my last year of formal education, I envy the seniors who are about to embark upon another adven­ture: an adventure into the reality which has surrounded us throughout all our years, but which we do not always live. 
It was great to get away from campus this weekend, just to get a breath of fresh air and be reminded of what else life is you would like to see." 
Life is made of the nouveau riche in their Gucci tennis wear buying "something small" for the evening's gala. And life is made of the poor people hud­dling on the sidewalks with their belongings, watching the parades go by. 
Life is made of those taxi drivers who take you right to where you need to go in less time than you need, and those who drive four blocks around your destination, finally drop­ping you off with one minute to spare before your appoint­ment. 
Life is staying at the office until midnight and rising at the crack of dawn to complete a project because district managers don't care that you have two other reports to com-

Alumnus produces 'Two Moon Junction' 
ZACK HUDGINS 
accent writer 

''T wo Moon Junction" is a new movie due for release in 500 theaters, in 25 .Acities, on Friday, April 29. What makes this movie a little differ­ent from others is that it was produced by a Notre Dame graduate, Donald P. Borchers. Borchers was born In Brook­lyn. N.Y. With the help of a Navy ROTC scholarship he was able to attend Notre Dame. His ROTC scholarship paid for his first three semesters of school from the fall of 1974 to the fall of 1975. In the spring of 1976, he was able to begin paying his own way and left Navy ROTC to the surprise of his commanding officer. "I didn't think I would be able to produce movies in the Navy," said Borchers. He graduated in December of 1977 because he had earned enough credits early, but he is part of the class of 1978. While at Notre Dame, Bor­chers directed himself toward a producing career. He recleved a Bachelor's Degree In busi­ness administration because, according to Borchers, "That's what I was told producers dealt with a lot." At the same time Borchers took classes in cinematography, ballet, drama, writing, and directing so that he would know about every aspect of the industry. "Producers don't need to know exactly how a camera works, but it helps if you know what an f-stop is," he said. 
During the summer of his sophomore year. Borchers got a job as a tour guide in Hawaii and Canada. He did not just show people the sights. In­stead, he would take complete care of the entire tour. He was responsible for every aspect of every tour. 
According to Borchers, "It was as a tour guide that I first realized that I had a knack for getting difficult or impossible jobs done--like when a tour group would arrive and no rooms would be ready for them. That's a producer, the guy who gets it done." 
With the knowledge that he could get things done, Bor­chers attended USC's film school for awhile, and then took a job at Avco Embassy Pictures because he wanted hands-on experience. At Avco, he worked on 17 feature films for three years as executive overseer of expenses. 
Borchers then became an as­sociate producer at Sandy Howard Productions. He also worked as the Senior Vice­President of production and creative affairs at New World Pictures until he formed his own company, Planet Produc­tions Corporation. With his new company, Borchers put to­gether the deals that created the movies, "Vamp," "Tuff Turf," "Children of the Corn," "Angel," and the controversial "Crimes of Passion." The last movie almost received an X­rating. 
As producer, Borcher over­sees everything involved in a movie. Directors, salaries, in­plete for that day, and thus will not give you an extension. 
Life is taking a horse-and­carriage ride through down­town Chicago on a warm spring evening and waiting over two hours just to get into the Hard Rock Cafe for a good hamburger. 
Life is sidewalk musicians 
teams. Life is the impatience that engulfs people as they wait for an elevator and then push to get a place in it, not letting the riders get off first. Life is people dressed up as lobsters handing out flyers for seafood restaurants. Life is playing softball at a family reunion. Life is attend­ing the symphony dressed to the hilt. Life is walking your dog and smiling at the old men playing checkers. Life is writing all those letters and thank you notes which get put off. Life is getting together for a cup of coffee with that person you always put off, thinking there will always be time later. We all have many responsi­bilities here at school with our classes, activities, and plans for the future. It's too easy to get 

Nothing new with 
M!ghty Lemon Drops 
vestors, and distribution are 
only a few of the many aspects 
with which Borchers must deal 
on each of his pictures. He 
does not have a real favorite 
aspect of all this work, but 
said, "They're all about even in 
my mind, each with good 
points and bad points." 
"Two Moon Junction" is Bor­
chers' sixth production. It is 
written and directed by Zalman 
King, writer of "9 1J2 weeks." 
"We got an R-rating on this 
movie, which is good," said 
Borchers. The new movie will 
contain very steamy sex scenes 
as did both "9 1J2 Weeks" and 
"Crimes of Passion." 
The plot of the movie is pretty basic. A beautiful Sherilyn Fenn stars as April. the bethrothed southern belle, sorority queen who is drawn to Richard Tyson, a carnival ride operator. The relationship is completely taboo. Despite warnings against their liaison, they cannot keep their passions for one another quiet. 
Although it has a relatively simple plot. the movie will be brought to life under the direc­tion of King and the director of photography, Mark Plummer. Plummer made Robbie Neville's video "C'est La Vie" which caught the eye of Borchers. Borchers had to get a green card for Plummer to work in this country after he convinced Plummer to do the movie. "Plummer has a true love for the camera," said Borchers. 
With such a motivator behind "Two Moon Junction" as Bor­chers, the movie is bound to be a hit. 

ANN Sf:lf'f:RT 
accent writer 
1\ new album has recently nheen released by The Mighty Lemon Drops. The group, originally called the Sherbet Monsters, hails from London, where, In 1986, they created huge waves on the 6rltlsh underground music. seene. In England, national underground charts are compiled biweekly, and it is a big deal to make the charts, especially If the group does not have an al­bum out. 
In 1986, their single, "Like An Anget" pushed The Mighty Lemon Drops to number one. Their sound back then was harder and inevitably more raw than their current sound. Now, they sound like a slightly weaker version of Echo (!( the 6unnymen. 
If I had to pick one adjec­tive to describe this album it would be this: boring. The redeeming factor of this World Wtthout End LP Is the first cut and first released single "Inside Out." It's really a very good song. catchy, with a good drum 
li i beat. tfltd Marsh's vocals come tt1ro1,1gh \'len ln this bright pop song,' It's too bad' The Mighty Lemon Drops can't readt this height again on their new LP. World Without End Is the group's third release. In 1986, Happy Head hit the 
LP Is probably its best so far. These early songs con­tain an energy and an over­all sound which are ab· solutely gripping. 1987 brought Out Of Hand, really only important for its won­derful title track, which stayed on the college charts In the United States all sum· mer and fall. That trend of one "big hit" per album seems to continue here on World Without End, also released on Sire Records. 
,The ten songs are, for the most part. of medium tempo and medium talent. "Hear Me Call" is pretty good, but songs like "In Everything You Do" are more typical of this LP. On this track. a droning tempo is topped by uninventive lyrics and uninspired vocals by Marsh. Just when the lis· tener is ready to turn off the turntable, the song simply cuts. It's as if the band too, has realized that the song Is going nowhere and just Wa.nts to end it, but doesn't exactly know where to do it. Pretty weak. 
The Mighty Lemon Drops create a sound which ls at times fresh and upbeat. They don't exactly break any new ground with this new album, so when you listen to it, don't listen with high expectations or anything. Don't get me wrong, I don't hate The Mighty Lemon Drops. I just don't like them. 

----------------~~ ~ ~--­
The Observer page 9
-Thursday, April 21, 1988 ____________________:_:~..::..:==~~--------------------------:........:_ 
n........,HotN o.m. office, located on the thlnllloof of LaFortune SCu­
ct.nt Center -=cepta claaifled .,_..,ling from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. n. oe..-Slllnt u.rya office, looat.d on the third floor of H..-Collge Cent•. 8CCePta ciMalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtday. o.dllne tor next-Gay clualfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda ~~
Classifieds be pnllleld, el~ In perwon Of by mall. The ch..-ge Ia 10 centa ~ tift ct.ecters ~cRy. 
NOTICES  FORRENT  )  HELPII I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big $$$ Call Heidi 233·4176 Two graduation tickets needed. Will pay.  SENIORS: Going to • ,_ city? C.rMr end P-nt S.rvlcee can help you lind other N.D. grade going to the Nme city. STOP BY AND SIGN  Penthouse 1988? Scary thought but watch it or she'll burn your bedl  lfs ELIZABETH HRYCKO'S birthday today. Happy 19th, Uzsterl -your roomie  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ProleBSOrs and grad·studenta: Pandora's will buy your books. Call 233·23-42 to make an appointment. 10.5:30 7 day........,k Wordproceulng-Typing 272-ll827 CAll 237-111411 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. ................................................................ EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAll MRS. COKER, 23l-700tl  2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID 286-0955 N'iCE''HOME..FU.RNiSHED"CLOS·e·ro NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 summer rental beautiful, large 1 bedroom apt. in house wtiver view. 1 mile from campus fur· nished, safe neighborhood, fenced yard. 289·2527 ............................Lt;:·;;;;;:..~;ar Leeper Park. 288-2821 .  Please call Susan at 239-6098. ................................................................ HELP! You've got to understand I My fam­ily is too big and 3 reason I want to say ... 1. My siblings WANT to SEE me in per­son, NOT to HEARl 2. They WANT to CRY OUT their CHEER, but CAN'T HEAR theml 3. Because I'M DEAFL PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, I desperately need 3 GRADUTATION TICKETS! I WILL PAY $$$$ PLEASE CALL JJ X3276 i"N'Eiii'i:i'A:s··M;.:N'v.GR';.:i:l·:rici<.8s··;.:s YOU CAN SELL. CALL SAM: 271-0683 OR 288·5818 midnight oil tix desperately needed area show 2 ph:2n8475 Joe.  UP NOW ;.:;;;i·N"~;·F~~·s;;;;;~;;;;~~-c;;-~;;i;;;;;·iiii: lerent. Monly Python's GRAHAM CHAPMAN at O'Laughtin Aud~orium Sunday, April 24th 7:30 tickets: $5 student&$10 public Ticket Stub-LaFortune O'Laughlin Box Office Century Center Ticket Office ································································ BRING OUT YOUR DEADI Graham Chapman Tickets on sale now ................................................................ GRAHAM CHAPMAN  ···O'iioi:e-s·Fiia;:.;·:r·iiii..ci:uaiiouse·· "We're busted, we're bustad." "Whore's the light?" "We should have · · · · • ­more in the car." HELPII DESPERATELY need one more same. give~ your best shot You're great. o~i··~;-~ii"'ih;;''~;;;~..y~~·ve spoken to me, one tiny linle wisper was the most meaningful. "Yes."  MIKE DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT has opened ijs office In South Bend, 712 N. Niles, 232-3722. The Indiana primary ia MAY 3 and we need your helpl Students lor Dukakis NOOMC will caravan to Mer­rilville to meet Mike at the airport on Saturday--you're invltedlll Call olfica lor detells·GO DUKAKISIII From the home office in Gary, Indiana, it's the TOP TEN QUOTES FROM SENIOR FORMAL 10. Shakespeare was quite a psycholo­gist. 9. Hey, these bottles of wine are only 99 cents .  
WORDePLUS Scholaatic Typing-Editing Rush Jobs O.K. 256-30n  6-7 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER OR 8 MD LEASE FOR FALL.272-6306 FoR'.Fiii·;.;:r·3·aR.HoMe.su·;;eR.ci:e.:.:;:,  PERSONALS  ]  GRAHAM CHAPMAN GRAHAM CHAPMAN GRAHAM CHAPMAN ...................... Foli.s'Ai:"E;······················  Nicole, From one wlerdo to another. What are we dolngl?l Evelylhlng went well yester· day, chic&. LISA  8. What room are we In again, Joan? 7. Wouldn't It be Iunny Ill woke up w~h Bob? 6. Let's stop lor a nightcap! 5. We'll leave them alone so Kevin can get a little Iovin'.  
Computer Art Fair Fnday, April 29 1n Riley Hall Room 200. Come see the latest in Interactive Art, Videodisks, and Computer MusiC at 4 p.m. and Computer An1mahon Videos at 5 p.m. Don't miSil the most Innovative computer and art worl< Notre Dame has seen In years.  INSIDE-OUT, WITH GARAGE. WALK TO CAMPUS. $470 MONTH NEG. CALL LEN AT 234-7650 OR JOHN 232·3972. ................................................................ WANTED J  Tom -·re gled to hNr you put the 400 pennlea to another UN end In the proceae acr-ed yourull royelly­ahowe juet how Intelligent you really eral Joke'e on youll  one-way flight to PHILLYI Only $100. L.Nvu South Bend on S.t. alterlln•le. Cell John at 2004 ·····a'H:·'Mv.ooii:·:;:ii·Ev;fiii..iiA'ci<ii····· the Lab/an Miners are comlngl!l  C•ooeR-ell Today et SMC. Don't bother elgnlng up. Juet come out et 4 lor """"' funt  4. If you wake me up at 9:30 I'll beat the S··· out of you. 3. Anita gives ··lobs lor a quarter I 2. Are the condom machines in tha men's bathroom pink, too? 1. It's OK as long as they have big breasts I  
THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES ARE AT BRIDGETS TODAY AT 7. BE THERE OR BE MEC· HANICALL Y REDUCED TO A LESS THAN HUMAN LIFE FORM. THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES PAUL LASZLO PHIL DAVE BUS TRIP HOME TO PHillY SIGN­UPS LAFORTUNE BASE. TONIGHT! TONIGHT! 7:30 1al COME tat SERVE or CAll 3482 FOR DAVE  SUMMER JOBS ALL LANOWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN· INGS 914 3814224 w:.\N:reD;;;;w:;.:N:;:ei:l;;·;;w:;.:N";:iii) ..... """"WANTED''''WANTED"""" I nned a female roommate lor the summer. Will spirt expenses for a Turtle Creek apart· ment. If interested call Amy 284·5470. ····cii'icA'a·a··iioouMATE..NEEDED Graduating in May? Working in Chicago? Looking lor a roommate? Call me STEVE G. 289·9233 SENiORS: i:i~~~~~·l~g I~ W~sh. D.C. next year? Need a ROOMMATE? Call  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER 6 LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentialily Guaranteed. endad Students: Sell your unwanted dass books lor $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off NO Ave. 1 0·5:30, 7day&Week 233-2342 ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank wilt llnance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jell Corey at 236-2200  ································································ ZEP FEST II '88 THURSDAY 421 from 3 p.m. to 1 a.m. 1628 Portage Avenue Come fill your heed with Led ... iiiii''JELLO''WRESTL!NG..is··eAcK··::. THURSDAY, 5:00, SMC IIIII si:ii:iiiiiifi..iiuP"i:o.vi:iii'NT··;;;iii;...R;;~~i Preetlge. $3250 plualor 13 -ke. Excellent ex­perience lor future ...umal Poeltlone evell•ble In Michigan, Indiana •nd Ohio. Automobile required. For more lnlonnetlon coma to Morrie Inn, Alumni Room, Thuradlly April 21et at 2:10 or 4:10.  SPRING TRAINING I SPRING TRAINING! SPRING TRAINING I !1:30am MAIN CIRCLE SATURDAY, APRIL 23......................................... TONIGHT THE DAtiNG GAME, AT STMARY'S. 7:00 PM. JOIN THE FUN OF An Toatel, DATING GAME, Dating Game, dating game DATING GAME, Dating Game,  WHAT? A REAL BAND INS. BEND? CINCINNATI RECORDING ARTISTS DOC end the PODS et BRIDGETS, SATURDAY NIGHT wBARBARA Btl· LINGSLY. 7 PM. DOC AND THE PODS, ON THIS WEEKS WVFI TOP TEN PLAY LIST SATURDAY NIGHT AT BRIDGETS, 7 PM. WI BARBARA BILLINGSLY. ................................................................ THE SHADES ARE HERE THE SHADES ARE NEAR TONITE AT BRIDGETS' NEAR MUCH BEER ARRIVE;APPEAR GOOD TIDINGS MUCH CHEER  
( LOST/FOUND I helpt loll a brown wallet W1th Initials FJD, conteined 10, driver's llacence, and photos. It was loat somewhere between North dining hall and the Engineering II· brary. Please call Francia at 283-1723 or return to 704 Grace Hall II found.  JOHN at x1666 w~~i;;;i;··;~d·,~id;;;;;··i~ ..x-;~~--~rt'i~i~~ end magul,... from the Notre Dema Library. If lntereeted wrlted Anthony Meacte, 23 Arverne Road, Weal Or­ange, NJ 07062. FORSALE ]  Bartles lmporta BMWMAZDANW All JETTAS at invoica PH. 272·8504 Ends April 30th SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or B.MILLER PO 665 NO IN JUST SAY uNOc. ugly nan on cempue...  Melanie Thanks lor being such a great roommate! Have a fantastic 21st birthday! Trish ................................................................ 1-WAY TICKET ANYWHERE, $80. CAll KIM 21171 iiMC":N·o···;::CiNooN···;;uuuii·ii...PiiO: GRAM (May 18-June 17) LATE CAN­CELLATIONS HAVE CREATED 3 OPENINGS Program lncludu travel In Ireland, Welu, Scotland, Engl•nd 6 France  dating game TRISH: From what I've seen, you'd look keen in green Try it once, and you'll know what t mean Dallas: Roll over. It's your breath. My tiny little ex-wife, you still drive me  Ringo I told you chocolate, chocolate, chocolate, not vanilla. Thanks !or noth­ing. Hey, you asked for H. its ugly Sem, thanks lor watching the movie with me this week, let's do It again IIO<T18IIme. Your admirer  
REWARDIIIIIII$50. FOUND: 3 X 8 IN. LT. BROWN AD­DRESS BOOK WITH ALPHABETIZED TABS. NO OWNERS NAME. FOUND BEHIND FACULTV LOT ACROSS FROM BRARE. CLAIM AT LOST 6 FOUND IN LIBRARY. LOST· A dark blue velcro wallet. It has all my ld. and driver's license. I have no ex.stance Without this wallet Please call Man at x3134 or 3132. LOST· Royal blue NO backpack from North Dining Hall at Lunch Monday. Call Betsy at x4169 PLEASEIII LOST· Black vinyl shoulder bag at senior formal check-in. Contains a 35mm camera, pocket camera, notebook and planner II you have any information or accidentally picked it up please call Theresa at 2n-8158. IIIIIREWARDIIIII lor any of it returned. Lost on Friday (If I knew where; this wouldn't be put in) Ray Ban sunglasses. Gold frames leaa than 1 K. If found please call Dan at 271-0480 ...... .......\, .. LOST-A ROYAL BLUE BACKPACK IN THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO HYATT DURING SENIOR FORMAL-ANY IN· FORMATION PLEASE CALL DIANE 413211 FOUND· Set of car and office keys on a Notre Dame key ring. Stop by room 10-S 1n Stepan Chem1stty Building between 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. to collect them. Lost: At Senior Formal; A black purse with a Kodak camera 1ns1de and a Vivltar camera In a gray case! If found please call George at 287-0753 or Kathleen at 284·42881111 LOST-Gold 'ST. Christopher" medal and chain probably at Rockne. call Brian 28~ 3833 $40 reward  IBM PC?<T Model 086 1OMb disk, 360K lloppy, 640K RAM and Quadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:FIIe, LOGO and other software packages also avail· able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239· 7248 weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. ;:.;;.;C:iNrosH··;28K.;·iM·;.:<3ewfii:r'EFi··;·& ACCESSORIES Call TOM 2350 ................................................. wiNDSURFER FOR SALE Fanatic Cat -w Mistral Sail 368cm race board Call Ron 287-n36 1ii7ii·4·:oooR"vw.FiA:iiB"ir:s2:ooo;;;ik;~ GOOD COND. $1100 call 288-6154 uNiTe·o···L:iM'ci··:r·,c:i<·e;:···Foii···sA:Le-­woRTH $40, ASKING $30.CALL 271· 0575. ................................................................ 79 FORD LTD, RUST PROOF, $1280, ACCASSETTE,CALL Jl2834155 ;·4;·col:()fi'T\i's:.\.MsuN<3.Sii5'c:A:L:L:·:i, 2634155 FOR···sALE;···1·983··aFiEY'··FOR'Ci···es~ COAT. GOOD CONDITION. CALL 271­0868. Graduation weekend-plane ticket· National, Wash.DC to South Bend on thur.eve.!>12 return on Mon.!>16. Asking $150. 1 will also sell one-way lor $90. Call Brian 283-3833 A.:r.r:..P'c ... 73iiii..P'eR.soN·t.iA.·.:···cat.1·. FOR SALE: 1983 GREY FORD ES­CORT. 38,000 MI. CALL 271·0868. cofiT.''<3ooo·c:oNoirioN'...3ii:ooo·Mi. CALL 271-0868  Things are getting UGLY Vote UMOC LaFortune Info Booth Mon·Fri 7·9 ................................................................ STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER et STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! Loweetrete. 24 hour electronic protec­Uon. C.ll 154-31345. ................................................................ CRUISE TO THE TUNE OF $6-S1otiR. C.n you meke $12,000'fr. delivering lor Domlno'a Pizza? You bell Now hiring. 11135 South Bend Avenue $3.75tlr with bonue •t hire. 277·2151. ................................................................ LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR CLUE NO.4 Keg teps over-llowing Drunk Domers on the quad Unlike the alcohol policy, I carry the symbol of freedom. ................................................................ THE CIRCUS IS COMING Ill Wed., April 27.... JUDY wears the pants on this campus. Judy -Ugly Rectress On Campus JUDY is too UGLY ··make her feel good and bring your pennies to LaFortunell Judy : U.R.O.C.· ·ugly ractress on campus····-­AN TOSTAL T·SHIRTS ARE HERE X 1861 Have A Coke And A Smile  CourMa available In Buec, Art, Soc, Blo, 6 Hlet C.ll Prof. A.R.Biack at 284-4480 (otllce) or 272-3728 (home). L:e"c'Eiicl:e.FRAN'c'Ais·:~;:·;;~;·soiR.ee ......... Monday April 25 7-10 ISO Lounge Food, Fun, Music, Slides t.io..·s:.:ii:iN"a ... cL:ue;~;;N"ri···s"Aii:iN"G CLUB"""" Happy hour Thuraday at 8pm. You know-.,, if not call Uz SMC· 4145. ;;A.·Fir;:..;.:;:···iifi'ewii:.:;s···F;;;;~;;:9···PM You're invHedl w;;;;;;~~;···i;;;;t;···;;;v···g·;~v···j~~k;;; ..·;;;;;;; Stepan courts Monday: I'd like It back. Call Chris at x1694 . He·;;m;;;····..sii:.:oes·····-~;~·-····;;,;vi~:~; BRIDGErS on Thursday at 6. BE THEREI (or be less than zero!) A PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT RYAN NEVER FORGETS Miss Ryan has recently taken a trip down memory lane with some visual aids round in her closet; such as a T·shirt that will never be white again and a pair of shoes with fossilizad lime Jello on them. REVENGE IS MY MIDDLE NAME (actually, If it were Revenge instead of Ann I could marry someone wl a last name starting vt' a "T" which would broaden my options. Perhaps I should have it legally changed ... but I digress ... ) SO, ALL OF YOU OUT THERE, AND YOU KNOW WHO YOU ARE, I'LL GET YOU THURSDAY AND SATURDAY NEEDED: ROOMMATE West Chicago bulbs-Oak Park area, call Jane (SMC 87) 312-482·7289 FREE JAZZ CLASSII  crazy. I really had an incredible, wonder· ful, breathless excursion Into the world of big people, and I can't thank you enough, and though you may feel tha Happy Birthday V I The man on the moon is smiling because he knows what you're taking offl U.M.O.C l.Ndera: 1. Patrick ("Trish") nrnon 2..Carl "Chip" Levering Slam 3. Mike Hawley 4. Mike ("UGLY") Pease 5. Kondola TOP TEN Reasons Why Senior Formal Was Great 10.We drank lree all night tong at the dance. 9.Highball at Sluggers 8.11 you can't run with the big dogs, stay on the porch--Kathy M. was face down at dinner Friday. 7.Budman-Quarters and the friendly oon· lines. 6.1 just got here, that's way I still have lree drink tickets. 5.Not only did the girts pick up the room tab--they stood In line. 4.None of us. or our friends, got engaged. 3.Thank God there was a copy center open on Sat. w~h light blue paper. 2.The balloon center pieces made great party hats. 1.We saved $600 by copying complimen­tary drink hckets. ................................................ HEY PICKLE Happy 19 1112th Birthday! You're such a quatley but we love you anywayII ................................................................ THE WALLETS THE WALLETS THE WALLETS THE WALLETS THE WAL· LETS THE WALLETS THE WALLETS THE WALLETS THE WALLETS tonight at THEODORE'S 9:30  Sue Sue Sue Sue Sue Happy Birthday Happy Birthday The Bestest Big Brothers UMOC. STAM. Goldfish tremble! To the guy In the pool room who said hello to me Tues. night: I know that I've met you and I think you're all right If you're interested In shooting a.game with me tonight. give me a call or meet me In LaFortune's TV lounge at 8. II you don't show up, I'll understand ... In your case one bird In the bush Is worth a dozen In the hand. Thanks to whoever stole our "Don't Walk on the Grass" signs The Men of St. Ed· ward's Hall ;;;;·w-.:.:i:L:iiTs·;;;;;·w:;.:u:iiTs··;:o-NiGH·-r AT THEODORE'S last year's favorite band is BACKII . Clon't miss It --tonight at 9:30 the WALLETS the WALLETS-------------··· Nice try "We Just Want to Score" · What a bunch of over achleverslll "I wish I didn't suck so much at basketball" H sure was fun though. Thanks for letting me play. Sorry about your knee Jenn. PHILADELPHIA CLUB lleggage truck will be loading 011 515: 1-2 PM et SMC behind t..Mena 2-5 PM on SI-n courte(NOT 2-3PM) Truck will .tentettvely unload 011 H blwn Spectrum 6 JFK from 1-3PM Quee­IIOIIe? cell John et 2004  
Loatlll A black Orient watch on Saturday, April 10 In front of Holy Cross Hall. If lound PLEASE return to 340 Holy Croaa or call C1238. Would greatly appraclate lhe return. THANKSI LOST: LIZ CLAIBOURNE PURSE AT FRESHMAN FORMAL. MY 1.0. AND KEYS ARE INSIDE SO GIVE ME A CALL AT 284·5182. REWARDI REWARD! LOST:SOME SHADES AT BRIDGET$'  Fofi..s:.\t:E;·;a~·t<:rv:·2i:Afi'GE.i:AM'j;8. SANYO MICROWAVE, FULL-SIZE BAR, 2 MATCHING LOVE SEATS ....... CALL 271-0888 a;;;;:;,~~·;;;;-.;t·i;;·j;;;ii~:·s·i3a:·s~~::·;:.;~~ 8th, 12:45, call 287·1243 or 239-7313. TICKETS  .........................................................,...... AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HERE Ill AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII ................................................................  THIS SUNDAY AT THEODORE"S FROM 7 -6:30 P.M. ONLY FIRST 30. I made my bed and I'm gonna lie in it. Alone, thank you. OK, just cut through the emotional so I can start studying lor my test. ................................................................ Where's your walletl I need shuttle larel Whoops, was I supposed make this pos­ LAST CHANCE TO DANCE Apr. 22, 7:30-10:30 NOOMC Ballroom Dancers At Knights of Columbus DON'T MISS IT JILL'S WONDERFUL Deer John McOeker, Our condolences and best wishes  for  Mama Bear I LOVE YOU Killen lace To the woman I saw acroas the room at Campus view (I think your name is Uz Pokora). I have to meet you. You looked great at the Marriot. When can we meet? your secret admirer Hey Princess. Go for HI··The Duke ol Eart  
THURSDAY NITE. PLEASE MEET ME THERE WITH THEM THIS THURSDAY  I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN  THIRSTY THURSDAY ... THIRSTY THURSDAY ... THIRSTY THURSDAYIII Club Bill, Bicycle Allee, Ceooe Race,  ~lve? ................................................................  your lather's speediest recovery. Just tum In the papers whenever ha is better.  REID-DOG /THOUGHT SEEING YOUR NAME IN PRINT MIGHT SPICE UP THE  
Picnic on the SMC Llbr•ry G,...,, Jell,  Your teachers  RECENTLY  BORING  PERSONALS··  
LOST: SCARLET OHIO STATE U. LET· TER BLANKET AT STEPAN COURT!I DURING BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL CAll BILL SEXTON AT 2311-8123. ................................................................  Commencement hcket. I'll make you a GREAT DEAL $$$1 Call Gretchen 272­2838  Jello Wrutllng, Twl1ter, Simon S.ye, liNt the Clock, The Detlng Gema, Mr. C.mpue, MR. CAMPUS Lete Night at Thllodor'elll Check your booklete lor limNI  REALIZE REAL ROCK'n'ROLL THURSDAY AT BRIGETS' Stephen: Rock-n-Roll dudel K & K ... , .. v .......... , ..,•. \ ... , ............................. ~..... .  Norm Balentine has a SOUTHERN DRAWL •....;.....................··;...:...;."'.:'".~ .......~ ..~ ....... ~":.  HERE'S TO FINISHING OUR PAPERS FROM HELL TONITE IN THE 24HRI IM ALL OVER STOOLJ8AR ACCESS FRI NITEI YOUR SHORT-EST FRIEND  - 

........ 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 21, 1988 
Junior Mohan more than just par for the course 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame golf team will travel to East Lansing, Mich., this weekend to partici­pate in the Spartan Invitational tournament at Forest Ackers West Golf Course. 

After a less than satisfying performance under adverse weather conditions at the Scar­let Course in Columbus, Ohio, this past weekend, the Irish linksters will seek to rebound. 
Setting the pace for the Irish will be junior Pat Mohan. In his second year as a member of the Gold Team, the California native leads the team with a 
77.8 stroke average. 
"Pat has been a very consis­tent player this year for the team," said Irish head coach Noel O'Sullivan. "His course management and mental ap­proach to the game is outstand­ing." 
In the combined fall-spring season to date, Mohan has scored below 80 in fourteen out of twenty-two rounds. He has also garnered the low round of the season, a 71 to open the 

Cavanaugh a leg up in IH baseball 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Interhall baseball continues this week with its 1988 double elimination tournament. Four teams have been eliminated from the tourney, which began with 16 teams. 
Of the 12 teams remaining in contention, the Bandits of Cavanaugh have the inside track at the winner's bracket title. The Bandits will play the winner of the Holy Cross game with Morrissey, while the loser of that game goes into the final rounds of the loser's bracket. 
Nine teams are hanging on to their Interhall title hopes in the loser's bracket, including Alumni, whose captain, Bill ZadeH wants another chance to beat Off-Campus Crime, also in the loser's bracket. 
"They've got some good hit­ters," ZadeH said of the team that pushed them into the loser's frame. "We'd like an­other shot at them. We didn't hit well against them. We have a lot of young players, and we're still getting used to playing baseball again." 
It will be a long road for both 
teams if they are destined to 
play again. 
ZadeH's Alumni squad first 
faces Stanford A Friday at 
4:30. Carroll and Flanner 1 play at 10:00 AM on Saturday, and the winners of those two con­tests play on Monday. 
In the next loser's bracket section, the winner of the St. Joe's-Off Campus game will take on either Stanford B or Pangborn, who play today at 4:30 The winners of those two games play Saturday, and the victor in that contest will play the remaining loser's bracket competitor, Zahm. 

Join The Observer 
Purdue Invitational in helping the Irish to a third-place finish. 
"At Purdue, it was the first time in a while that it all came together for us," said Mohan. "We're certainly capable of playing like that." 
However, things did not al­ways run so smoothly for Mohan. As a beginner at around age ten, Mohan had family support although he was the first in the family to really take a serious interest in the game. Upon entering high school, Mohan was forced to make an important decision. 
"I had already started playing in golf tournaments at about age thirteen," said Mohan. "But when I got to high school, I had to choose between golf and baseball because in California they are both in the same season." 
Mohan achieved numerous honors and distinctions throughout his golf career at Mission Viego High School. He earned all-league honors for all four years, lettering each year and captain the last two. As a junior he was voted league MVP and subsequently fol­lowed that up by guiding the team to a league title his senior year with a 74-stroke average. 

When it came time for choos­ing a college, Mohan was some­what unsure. 

Pat Mohan 

"I had plans to play golf at Colorado, but I was also on the waiting list at Notre Dame," stated Mohan. "I finally got in here ffild fulfilled my lifelong dream." 
For head coach O'Sullivan, it has been a dream come true as well. Freshman year was un­kind to Mohan as he struggled on the links and failed to make the cut on the Irish squad. But 



GOING GLOBAL 
Peace Corps I Campus Compact Overseas Undergraduate lntemships Short-term SeNice Experience Gain Firsthand Exposure to a Developing Nation Obtain Significant Project Experience Help Peace Corps Volunteers Help the People of the Host Country Educate Others About the Third World 
One Notre Dame sophomore orjunior will be nominated for a one semester or summer Internship. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. Institute for International Peace Studies. 101 O'Shaughnessy 
Application deadline: April 27 

ADWQRKS 
that only served as a motive to work harder for Mohan. Last year he made the cut shot a season-low 73 on four separate occasions. In addition to this, Mohan added three medalist or runner-up performances in his first year with the Irish Gold 
Team. 
"Pat's coolness and emo­tional stability makes him the player that he is," commented O'Sullivan. "He's a pure player, and definitely one of the best players skillwise that I've had on the team. The greatest part of his game is that he is able to visualize the shot beforehand, and he will hit the good shot under pressure. This is what makes him a step above the regular players." 
Mohan has continued his con­sistent play this spring, turning in three medalist perfor­mances and finishing 13th over­all at the Eastern Kentucky In­vitational. Along with these honors, both Mohan and senior captain Dick Connelly are serious contenders for Aca­demic All-Americans this year. 
Lately Connelly and juniors Mohan and Doug Giorgio have provided solid play at the top three positions, while fresh­man Paul Nolta holds on to the fourth spot. This weekend for the Spartan Invitational, the call to travel as the fifth man went to sophomore Bobby Kloska. The Elkhart, Ind., na­tive will hope to contribute from the fifth spot which has been a problem area all year for the relatively young Irish team. 
"Because of his per­severence and loyalty, he's a welcome addition to the Gold Team," said O'Sullivan. "Bobby Kloska has an excel­lent golfing background. He is very excited about this weekend. There will be a whole new chemistry this weekend at the Spartan." 
A high finish in East Lansing could provide the spark the Irish need to rejuvenate them­selves as they wind down reg­ular season play. Once again, the Irish will look to Pat Mohan to score well as he has all season. 


Dean·s Run 
Twice Around the Lakes (7km) 

Sunday April 24 at 11:30 am 

Sponsored by the College of Science Student Council 
Register in Room 229 Nieuwland Science Hall 
"University Food Services needs student assistance" HELP WANTED NO, St. Mary's, Holy Cross students -Jobs for Monday, April 25th dinner and Wednesday April 27th dinner. Other on-call positions available -Sign up in South Dining Hall Lower level by Validine or North Dining Hall Manager's Office.  

-
.----'-----------~------~-------------~----------­
Thursday, April 21, 1988 The Observer 



Braves 
continued from page 16 
ing autographs of all my heroes. I still look back and cherish these mementos on oc­casion. The names are stand­outs on anyone's Hall of For­gettable Ballplayers: Jerry Royster, Rick Mahler, Bill Nahororodny, Brian As­selstine, ... the list goes on and on. 
Second was the trip to Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium that I took last sum­mer to watch the Braves lose to the Cardinals. In two short games, I experienced memories that will last a lifetime: watching Dion James play a pretty mean game of dodgeball in centerfield, seeing Graig Nettles step to the plate three times with the bases loaded and two out, and ac­complish the amazing task of getting no RBI, being aston­ished as to how knowledgable the Fulton County crowd was (particularly one man behind me who yelled, "That's why they're in first place," after a Cardinal player homered), watching the Brave caps that were on sale for $5 when I bought one suddenly go for $4 after Atlanta lost two straight, all these precious moments are too numerous to mention. 
But the biggest thing that I have noticed is how watching the Braves has helped my out­look on life. I often have con-
page 11 

Women's Bookstore: The Sweet Sixteen 
We Won Interhall Hoosier Hyst1 ·
enasM 17
SM13 

I I 
I TheEducators4:00

4:00 Boxer Club I 
STl
STl 
Shots At the Bar SM 14

Yurtles & Turtles
M 14 

6:00
5:00
I 
J
:00 
Penthouse PlaEates u5:oo

Stubble Shootere 
I 
I
ST2 

ST2 
The Supreme Co urt

Just Couldn't Get Enough 
M 15 5:00 
4:00 SM 13
I
STl
I
:00 
I 5 Lymites Who Bite5:00

Kukla Fran & Ollie 
I 
12:00 

ST2
ST2 
Almond}o

Victor Sefuentes 
M 16 
y SM 15

6:00
5:00 
I
I
:00 
Give Me Your Address 5:00

What's not Schnch L 
Observer Graphic 

sidered myself the optimistic sort, and upon reflection I know the Braves helped cause that. 
Yankee fans were dis­satisfied with Bucky Dent at shortstop; Braves fans wonder who was the best Atlanta shortstop of our generation (nominees include Pat Rock­ett, Luis Gomez, Pepe Frias, Rafael Ramirez and Andres Thomas). Red Sox fans say that Jim Rice grounds into too many double plays; Braves fans have grown up thinking Jeff Burroughs, Willie Mon­tanez and Garry Matthews were godlike figures. 
Fans of pennant-contending teams spent their summers worrying their lives away, but Braves rooters could sit and relax. We had nothing to worry about because we knew our team would lose. I'm going to have a fun summer watching the Braves get manhandled and comapring this year's squad to other also-ran Atlanta squads of the past. 

I realize that fans of pennant­winning teams could not imag­ine cheering for the Braves to be fun, but you must under­stand that I'm used to summers like this. I guess it would be harder to endure if you hadn't gone through summers like this 
before.  - 
So  relax,  Orioles  fans.  It  
really  does  get  fun  after  a  
while.  


For tht facts call your local Rfd Cross. or write• 
~Red Cross +tl'C 
\\llshington. DC 20006 



Sports Briefs 
Notre Dame males apparentlypossessmoresports knowledge than students from other midwestern univer­sities, according to an informal poll taken by three Notre Dame statistics students. A sample of Notre Dame males correctly answered 62% of a general current sports quiz covering a variety of sports, compared to 52% right by a similar sample of Dayton students, and 51% right by Miami of Ohio students. -The Observer 
The Blue-Gold Game will take place Saturday, April 23, at 1:30 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium. Students get in free upon presentation of a student ID card at Gates 15 and 16 only of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
In the National League yesterday, it was the New York Mets riding Dwight Gooden's four-hitter to a 6-2 win over the Philadelphia Phillies; Montreal 5, Chicago 1; Houston 1, Atlanta 0; Pittsburgh 8, St. Louis 1; San Francisco 5, Cincinnati 3; and the San Diego-Los Angeles game was rained out. -Associated Press 
In the American League yesterday, the Baltimore Orioles set a major league record by losing their first 14 games out of the gate this season, after last night's 8-6 loss at Milwaukee. Mter the game, new Oriole manager Frank Robinson implored Baltimore fans to "hang in there ... we're bound to win one before the year is out." Elsewhere, it was Cleveland 2, Texas 1; Oakland 9, Cali­fornia 8; Seattle 5, Chicago 4; New York 6, Minnesota 5; and the Boston-Detroit game was rained out. -Associated Press 

FORD -TOYOTA -VOLVO SMCtennis 
on a roll, 6-2 on year 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 

Mter taking first place in a weekend tournament and win­1..;;...-~-------------------_. ning over Hillsdale College on Tuesday, the Saint Mary's ten­:**********************************\nis team boosted their spring 
* 
Ch k t * season record to 6-2. 

* 
ec OU • • • lt-The Belles charged from be­~ ! hind near the end of the tourn­* * ament to win the DePauw In­

* 
lt-vitational held last weekend. 



THE GROOVE 
* 
! In the first round, Saint! * Mary's defeated the University * * of Cincinnati 6-3. * * Next, the Belles topped ~ ! Washington University, 7-2, to 

* 
winner of this year's Nazz competition *advance to the finals, facing

* 
and lt-DePauw lJniversity. 


;.........................................................................................................ou..................:: 
Saint Mary's went into the 

~-···catiiotics-··-~n--······sad--1 ~?.b~V~f-~~:0~~:!:~
! * Hmes defeated thetr compeb­~····················· ..................................................:·············..····••..••••••••···•..··········.....,._ tion 6-2, 6-3, but Michelle 
~""'"""""""""'"'""""'"'Stan ding"""'"-""""""""'""'i Chan~y a~d Schnell fell6-2, 6-4. 
~.......................................~ ..................... -............,... At this point, Ma~er and Mary .....................................n••••••••••............................... u ................ -.........._...___.. Turk were thrust Into the spot­lt-* light. They were defeated 6-2 in * another campus favorite * the first set and were down 3­~ ! love in the second when they * * rallied and made an outstand­
* 
! ing comeback to take the set in * * a tiebreaker and then won the ~ * third, 6-3, to give the Belles the * * tournament. 

* 
: At home against Hillsdale on ! * Tuesday, St. Mary's won * * quite easily, 7-2. 


* * 
************************************* 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, April 21, 1988 

A prediction of the winners of the women 
As the Women's Bookstore Basketball tourna­Get Enough. The team has the experience of Notre championship team and two members from the ment narrows down to the Sweet 16, speculation on Dame basketball coach Muffet McGraw and other runner-up team. who will win the coveted title begins to tease the 
Kara England from last year's championship 
fan's mind. team joined Rochelle Holder and Carolyn Burke Tournament play continued all week in the cold Jane who won the championship in 1986 besides coming April weather at Saint Mary's. in second place last year. The teams who have made it to the Sweet 16 have Shea Almond Joy has had some decisive victories. 
both a combination of talent and luck. Their fast-break have given them the advantage
Saint Mary's Sports Editor

Kukla, Fran and Ollie has made it all the way to over many of their teams. the Sweet 16 without playing one game. All the The Supreme Court, Five Lymites and Yurtles 
teams they were to play forfeited to them. and Turtles advanced by forfeits and might be a veteran players.
Other teams have had to struggle a little more little slow in today's games. 
Stubbe Shooters, who are all under 5'8, has been Whatnots Schnch had a tough game against This to reach their positions. 
having strong wins and have the advantage of two
We Won Interhall looks to me like the team who is Why We Chose To Run Track but their victory will make it to the final four and has a good chance varsity athletes. proved they had the endurance to beat a tough team. 
of winning the title. Tammye Radke and Julie Radke both play on the The Sweet 16 field is a competitive bunch, and The team from Pasquerilla West won the interhall Saint Mary's basketball team and have helped the the final victor is usually as unpredictable as the team pull together and brush-up on their technical 
basketball tournament at Notre Dame this year and South Bend weather. works well as a team since they have already played skills. We Won Interhall and This Too is my favorite 
together in a tournamment. Give Me Your Address There could pull out a since they have the confidence and the skill to come Another team who looks promising is Just Can't victory since the squad has a member of last year's out ahead of a close race. 

Favorites emerge from women's draw 
By ANNE GALLAHER ting four jumpers from the top Sports Writer of the key to tie. The final score was 15-13. 
Victory was sweet yesterday In other action, Hoosier Hys­for the 16 teams who emerged terics defeated Femme Fatal, winners in Women's B.ookstore 21-14. Shot at the Bar gave competition at Saint Mary's Mraid of Public Ridicule rea­Angela courts. son for fear by winning 21-5. 
"We didn't have sun and it Penthouse Playmates out­
was a little cold but overall the scored Five Chicks Who Score With Style 15-5, while Almond Joy blew out TNT 21-6. 

Top-seeded Give Me Your Address There is one game closer to the championship after their win over Four SMCs
weather was tolerable," said Bookstore Chairwoman Bar­and a Domer 21-3. We Won In­bara Tull. terhall continued its winning 
For competitors the weather streak by defeating Belles was the least concern. Just From Hell 21-18. Can't Get Enough couldn't get Boxer Club knocked out Five enough playing time as they Funny Fickle Females 15-10 battled it out with Maybe In the and Stubbe Shooters destroyed Next World for an hour and 15 Briefs Are For Fags 21-1. Vic­
The Observer I Mike Moran 

minutes. tor Sefuentes beat The Boun­
Women's Bookstore Basketball moved Into Its story at left, and Jane Shea has her predictions The Next World led, 7-6, when cers 21-13. 
own Sweet 16 yesterday. Anne Gallagher has the of how the tourney will end up above. 
the teams decided to play to 15. 
Mter 30 minutes The Next Return of the Euro-Fags ..---------~~~~~ •••••••••••••••••••••.. 
World had spread their lead to failed to make it back and for-Alii'ed 
10-6. feited to Kukla Fran and Ollie. " 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
"I thought we could go all the Yurtles and Turtles, Supreme Sh• • way, but something hap­Court and Sparky's Franchise 
Ipp10g

pened," said sophomore Julie also won by forfeit. h" 
Courtney. Today the competition con-Let us pack and s 1p your 
Apparently Enough had had tinues as the field narrows to electronic equipment, AUTHORIZED DEALER
enough. The team rallied hit-The Elite Eight. stereo, etc. direct to you 
BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS
home by UPS-Emery. 

SALES···SERYICE-·PART8-ACCESSORIES 
• CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY' OPEN TUES 9AM • 7PM 'OPEN WED· SAT 9AM ·5:30PM 
219-277-7616 
Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fri 

Summer Storage Available Kryptonite Locks
University Commons 

Parts & Service Available
SR 23 & Hickory 
Students $26.95 
Western Union 

ROSELAND 277-8866 with ad cut-out
Fisher Hall would like to thank 
135 DIXIE WAYS.
Available 


the following people for making the 1988 Regatta so successful: 


SUB Special Events
-Mateo Subs -University Park Cinema West Commission -N.D. Alumni Association -Martin's Supermarket 
-Rocco's Pizza is looking for students 
-Musicland to chair individual events -Coca-Cola 

for the 1988-89 school year.
-Bruno's -N.D. Hammes Bookstore -Morris Inn Applications are available 
-University Food Services in the SUB Office 2nd floor -Student Union Board 
Lafortune. Due 5pm, Mon. Apr. 25. 
Thursday, April 21 , 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Sophomores continue to bolster ND lax attack 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team takes their 9-2 record on the road today as they travel to Ohio for games against pos­sibly their easiest and toughest back-to-back opposition of the season. 
The Irish play Wittenburg today in Springfield and then travel to Granville for a game Saturday against Ohio Wes­leyan. Notre Dame routed Wit­tenburg 26-1last year and holds a 5-0 series advantage over the Tigers. The Irish weren't so fortunate last season against Ohio Wesleyan, falling 17-5 to the Battling Bishops. The Bis­hops hold a 7-0 series lead over the Irish and are among the top 10 teams in the nation. 
The Irish will continue their quest towards their first 10-win season. The team was denied that goal last Saturday when Denison snapped Notre Dame's seven-game winning streak with a 14-6 win. 
To obtain that tenth victory the Irish will continue to rely on contributions from many players. Sophomores Brian McHugh and Mike Quigley are two players who could play a significant role in this weekend's games, according to head coach Rich O'Leary. 
Quigley shuttles in on the team's second midfield line and is one of only six players to have played in every quarter this year. He leads the team in ground balls with 46 and had a team-high 10 verses Kenyon. Quigley is seventh on the team in scoring with eight goals and three assists, but has been hin­dered by a .163 shooting percentage. 
"Mike has contributed as much as any sophomore. He's been a threat on offense al­though his statistics don't show it," O'Leary said. 
"Mike's a real stabilizing force in our midfield and we're just waiting for him to have a big game. He'll be one of the people we'll count on in the fu­ture." 
McHugh, meanwhile, is a starting attackman and is the team's second leading scorer with 18 goals, 11 assists and a .327 shooting percentage. He is also one of the team leaders in groun'd balls, with 35 for the season. 
"Brian has been a real surprise considering that he had limited playing time last year. From the beginning he has showed a lot of maturity and confidence in working in the offense," O'Leary said. 

"Brian complements (team scoring leader) John Olmstead very well and, although he's not the star, he still contributes a great deal to the team con­cept." 
Dave Carey, classmate of Quigley and McHugh, has been 
relied on more following an in-



NDAVEAPTS. 
"THERE ts a sense in which Jackson is a 'natu­ral' democratic candidate, expressing perhaps the party's increasingly McGovernite soul.

SPECIAL SUMMER RATES A VAlLABLE 
Jackson pulls white votes in the university regions of Massachusetts, Connecticut, Mich­

also renting for Fall 
igan, and Wisconsin, enclaves of radicalism, but also the pacesetters intellectually for the national Democratic Party. There is a sense in which Jackson has had the courage of their 

2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
deepest convictions. and they share his vision of a disarmed, redis­
For a free copy of the
tributive. socialist 
<:urrenl issue of National 
America." 
Review write to Dept. 
UNIV.. 150 East 35th 
Street New York, N.Y 
CALL 234-6647 

Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency 
100t6 

jury to starting creaseman Jeff tore our confidence by getting 
Shay. Carey has started the everyone to play and have 
last three games and is sixth them play well. It's always 
on the team with seven goals, hard bouncing back from a loss 
seven assists, and a .304 shoot­after having so many straight
ing percentage. wins." It gets significantly"We always joke around and harder for the Irish on Satur­call Dave the 'iceman.' But out day when they face the Battling there on the field he's really Bishops. Ohio Wesleyan is the just a house of fire,'' McHugh top-ranked team in Division III said. "We really miss Jeff but but is also among the most­Dave has done a great job fil­feared teams nationwide, ling in." regardless of division. Wes­
O'Leary said the play of leyan's only loss this season every player will be crucial be­came to North Carolina, cur­cause both games this week are rently among the top three or important for the Irish, as they four teams in the country. And try to regroup from the Denison O'Leary knows that the Irish loss. will have to be at the top of their 
"The Wittenburg game will game to stay with the Bishops. give us the opportunity to "The way it looks, Ohio Wes­rebound after a Shaky perfor­leyan probably has their best mance against Denison and we team ever. We have to go in will likewise tune-up for the hoping for the upset and we'll Ohio Wesleyan game," have to play our best,'' O'Leary O'Leary said. "We hope to res-said. 
Bookstore ~~~~s.and 
had several blocked 

continued from page 16 
two more times before Ad­works answered with four more to finish it off, the last two on Kevin Keyes off-the­front-rim-and-in shots. Voce had nine points for the winners, who played again without John 'Booger' Buscher who sat out with an ankle injury. 
Pop A Shot At Senior Bar, the tenth-seed, knocked off 5 Slamma Jamma, 21-18, in one of two wins by the lower seeded teams. Joe Hills poured in nine points for the winners, while Steve Bynum plugged up the middle of 5 Slamma Jamma's 
"We feel that if we play hard we have a chance to beat anybody," said Hills, one of four team members (all but Bynum) who made up last year's final eight team New Or­der which bowed out to Leone's Stallions. 
Who's Next is next for Te­quila White Lightning after their 21-16 win over Tofu's Last Gig. Joel Rump scored eight for the winners, while J.C. Trybus had six points for the losers, who depart with a loss but also with what just may be the tournament's most fashionable team shirt. 

Warner I Electra I Atlantic Records Brings You Super Savers Series SUPER SUPER SUPERSAVER SAVER SAVERSERIES SERIES SERIES LP Tapes Compact disc LITTLE The last Record Album Includes Somebody'& leaving l..cNeStand1Romance Dance THE PRETENDERS VAN MORRISON LEARNING TO CRAWL Moondance Las \~I•l:ludes tho Slnt~los: MIDDLE OF THE ROAD, BACK ON THE • CHAIN GANG, MY CITY WAS GONE, 2000 MILES 10-1 Dally 11-7 Sanday Comer of Edlaon Rd. RECOR S Just off lotn and South Bend Ave. · . .,._ Cllllpu1 Sale Priced Every Day  


------------~----­

Thursday, April 21, 1988 

page 14 The Observer 
NJ, Bruins 
Men's Bookstore XVII: The Elite Eight 
pull even 
Associated Press 
Stanley Cup-style defensive hockey can be expected to con­tinue Thursday night when the Norris and Smythe Division NHL playoffs resume. 
Detroit and St. Louis com­bined for just 41 shots as the Red Wings beat the Blues 5-4 in their Norris opener. And Ed­monton's defense and penalty killing wore down Calgary 3-1 in the first game of the Smythe. 
In Wednesday night's playoff action, Boston beat Montreal 4­3 in the Adams Division finals and New Jersey stopped Wash­ington 5-2 in the Patrick. 
BUY

+
American
Brown not worried about draft 
OBSERVER

Red Cross 
Associated Press 
CLASSIFIEDS
knows he will not be the first holding his breath while 

Be a volunteer. man picked. The Atlanta Fal­waiting to hear from them.
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Notre 
cons already have used the Detroit's needs may dictate aDame's Tim Brown, the Reis­No.1 pick to sign Auburn trade down or the selection ofman Trophy winner as the na­

tion's top college football linebacker Aundray Bruce to a Miami's Bennie Blades, the four-year contract reportedly highest-rated defensive back. It's Seamus Brennan
player last season, isn't overly 
worth $3.5 million. Nor is Brown concerned that

concerned where he goes in Week!
The Detroit Lions own the falling to No. 3 or even lowerSunday's NFL draft. 

second but Brown isn't will diminish his market value. 

Whichever team calls his name figures to make him a millionaire. 
"No reason to be nervous," Wish him a Happy said Brown. "I don't know 
21st Birthday

what's going to happen, but the 1212 High Street South Bend way I approach the whole sit­
5' x 5' --$15 I month
uation is whatever happens 
5' x 1 0' --$20 I month
can't be bad. 
1 0' x 1 0' --$32 I month

"You've just got to roll with and the punches and wherever you 1 0' x 20' --$45 I month end up you end up, and you other sizes available don't worry about it." 
a Happy Engagement! 

The 6-foot, 195-pound wide 288-3575 receiver and punt returner 

~~ATTENTION 
JUNIORS! (Seniors-to-Be) 
It's time to put your resumes together. Are they looking bare? Well, here's your chance to add some activities and have some fun at the same time. Such positions as "Newsletter Editor," "Advertising Coordinator," Public Relations Director," and "Off-Campus Communications Liason" are available. We are looking for enthusiastic people with new and creative ideas. If you are interested and have not received an application in the mail, please pick one up outside oftheJunior Class Office. Please return all applications to your dorm executives (indicated on 
the application) or to the Junior Class Office byTHIS Friday, April 22nd! 
Saving the Best For Last! 
ALL 

l-ATE NiGt+I A--TPA·hr1_9 bP.M~ 1H·EOOoP-.Cfs 
IO:oo,_.,
-?:W ­

AN los71H--N1~t+ I" MR.CAMPus/ AWM~·,-ser-.Jio/J. CL-uB z.
6:oo-AN'-E:iA. 
~ 
ADWORKS 



The Daily Crossword



Campus 
Thursday 
• 
Advance Registration for the Fall Semester 1988-89 and for the Summer Session, 1988, Thursday, April 21, through Thursday, April 28. 

• 
PoliticstHermeneuticsAesthetics, Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the Interna­tional Association for Philosophy and Literature, April 21-23, CCE, All persons attending the conference must register, supported by grant from the college of Arts and Letters. 


8:30a.m.: Special Sessions, The Aesthetics of the Holocaust, Session 1: Film, Fiction, Aesthetics, Room 100-400; Gramsci's Aesthetics, Session I, room 112-4; Politics and Aesthetics in Nietzsche, Room 202; Rhetoric and Rationality in Politics, Room 234; Hermeneutics and Ethics, Room 206. 
12:30 p.m.: Slide show and discussion, "The Popular Memorial for Los Quemados in Santiago, Chile," by David Brooks, 283 Galvin Life Science Building. 
1:15 p.m.: IAPL Panels: The Uses and Abuses of Examples: Literature, Phi­losophy, Law, Session I, auditorium; Allegories of Interpretation, Session I: Theory, Room 100-104; The Politics of Images, Session 1, Room 202; Adorno's Aesthetics, Session 1, Room 234; Ideology in the History of Hermeneutics, Room 206. 
3:30p.m.: Department of Civil Engineering Massman Distinguished Lecture, "Response and Reliability Analysis of a Duffing Oscillator Subjected to Narrow Band Excitation," by Professor Mircea Grigoriu, Cornell University, 301 Cushing Hall. 
4 p.m.: Lecture, "Macrotheories, Macro context, and the Informal Sector: Case Studies in Brazil, by Leo Despres, Department of Anthropology, 131 Decio. 
4 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture, "The Brundtland Report: The Threat to Our Common Future," by Thomas Malone, Scholar in Residence, St. Joseph College, Connecticut, Room 121 Law School. 
4:30 p.m.: IAPL Plenary Session, "The Hermeneutical Relevance of Kant's Third Critique," by Rudolf Makkreel, Emory University, respondent: Stephen Watson, ND, moderator: Gary Shapiro, University of Kansas, CCE Auditorium. 
7 p.m.: Anthropology Lecture, "Television and Culture in the United States and Brazil," by Professor Conrad Kottak, University of Michigan, Room 131 Decio. 
7:30p.m.: Friends of the Snite Museum of Art, "What is Art?" Series Lecture, "Key Images in 20th Century European Art," by Craig Adcock, Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 p.m.: SMC Department of Music Graduate Artist Recital Series, Carolyn Dueis, harp, Little Theatre. 
8 p.m.: IAPL Plenary Session, "Nihilistic Hermeneutics," by Robert Scholes, Brown University, respondent: Stanley Rosen, Pennsylvania State University; moderator: John Matthias, CCE Auditorium. 
Comics 
-----~--~ 
Thursday, April 21, 1988 page 15
The Observer 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 
ACROSS 1 Hits hard 5 Malt drink 9 Achievements 
14 Revise copy 15 Ready for plucking 16 Pyle or 
Kovacs 17 Ancient home 18 Rental abbr. 19 Photo finish 20 Losing state 23 Strong 24 Small room 25 Legal paper 27 China of a 
kind 32 -king 35 Play again 38 Certain 39 Lama land 41 Busy -bee 42 Pule 43 Plane surface 44 Seat 46 Pro ­47 Equivocate 50 Song 52 Fat 55 Houston ­59 Wish despite 
heavy odds 64 Blatant 65 Currier and ­66 Level 67 Do grammar 
work 68 Adore 69 Sleuth Wolfe 70 More crafty 71 Headliner 72 Sandarac 
DOWN 1 Type of tire 2 "A Bell 

for-" 3 Fulcrum 4 Cooked In a 
way 5 Property 
receiver 6 Shreds l VIsual 8 Beau ­9 Woman 

-----., 
..... 

All Rights Reserved 
10 Part of QED 11 Against 12 Joslp Broz 13 Recognized 21 Lifeless 22 Final: abbr. 26 Colorless 28 Residue 29 Legal 
proceeding 30 Fish-eating 
bird 31 Abound 32 Nlpa palm 
leaves 33 Modena money 34 Genesis 
name 04/21/88 36 Put to work 51 Goddess of 58 Sp. mister 37 Grandma wisdom 59 Beer 40 Consume 53 Tracks Ingredient 42 Card game 54 Piece of 60 Elliptical 45 More turf 61 Around: pref. 
Insensitive 56 Gadabout 62 Gaelic 48 Beetle 57 "Norma" or 63 Soviet 49 Kind of jazz "Tosca" river 
Far Side Gary Larson 



Sports
Thursday, April 21, 1988 page 16 

Tofu, Jamma fall •1n Round of 16 
By BRIAN O'GARA Kinkoids' zone defense and hit Sports Writer three straight hoops, finishing 
3-of-7. Paul Gruber led And then there were eight. Kinkoids with four points.Bookstore Basketball XVII I'll Play, No I Won't, the third 
continued as eight teams ad­seed, defeated A Bad Dude, A vanced to the quarterfinals Cool Buzz... , 21-16 behind Bill with victories yesterday. After Sullivan's eight points and four a well-deserved respite today points each from point guard for An Tostal's Thursday at Al Martin and John Kennedy. Hahn's Funeral Home buried Corporate Raiders, 21-18, as point guard Bubba Cunnin­gham directed the show for
111111111 -­
Saint Mary's, Bookstore action Hahn's, the fourth seed. Kevin will continue on Friday at the Williams of Hahn's and Mike Bookstore courts as the field of Smith of the Raiders both title-chasers is now down to scored nine points. just eight. Chip's Bar, the fifth seed, had 
Top seed Tequila White little trouble with the Lightning built up a big lead Minahoonies, pulling out a 21-14 over Jimmy Swaggart... and win. Steve Belles and Aaron then held off a late surge to Robb both finished with six come away with a 21-14 win. points for the winners, who will Sean Cullinan again led Te­face Hahn's in the next round. quila in scoring with eight Sixth-seeded Adworks All­points while the Nanni brothers Stars almost took an early hike combined for nine more. at the hands of upset-minded 
Second seed Lou's 2 QBs and Put It In The Hole Again, Chief. 2 Blind Men ousted the Down 17-13 in the second half, Kinkoids with little trouble, ad­Adworks went to Gary Voce on vancing to Friday's action with four straight trips down the a 21-12 win. Jeff Peters and court to knot the game at 17. Tony Rice combined for 13 Put It In The Hole did just that points while zone-buster Lou Holtz found the seams in see BOOKSTORE, page 13 
now realizing their potential 
What has been the difference realize iny potential," Hutson made his mark on the season 
this season? Hutson credits says. "I have to see where it in a big way." goes from here, but now I have "I needed something differ­a better idea of what I can do." ent," Hutson says of his career Hutson's 12 home runs this until the 1988 season. "I wasn't season is just three short of the getting the push that I needed, Irish career mark of 15. As a but Coach Murphy has changed junior, Hutson hit a round­a lot here, and he's helped me tripper that cleared the fence in every part of my game." and a six-lane highway beyond Hutson and the Irish will take that. Hutson will finish his to Coveleski Stadium today to career as the most prolific face IUPU-1 at 6 p.m. The Irish power-hitter in Irish history, defense has let the team down but the changes that have im­lately, to say the least, and proved his all-around perfor­Murphy hopes to end that mance did not come until this today. season, after a troubled fall. "Our defensive secondary is giving up too many touch­"We had to suspend Tim downs," Murphy says, refer­from the team in November," ring to the 28-10 loss to Western 
Murphy says. "He saw that we Michigan on Tuesday. "We were prepared to play without have to guard the three-point him, and he came back and shooters a little better." 

..... 
Hutson, Irish baseball 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Don't try to cheat Tim Hut­son. 
"I'm a power hitter," the Irish first baseman says. "I'm not going to get cheated at the plate. If I strike out, I strike out, but I'm going to take my cuts." 
Hutson has taken his cuts to the tune of a school-record 12 home runs, and he also leads the team in runs batted in. Hut­son came through in last weekend's series against Detroit with two homers, one a grand slam to put the score at 8-11 and spark the Irish to one of their patented come-from­behind wins. 
"The Detroit series was really great for me," says Hut­son, a senior from battle Creek, Mich. "They were im­portant games. I had two home runs and a game-winner. It was a good series for the team." 
This season has shown a marked improvement in Hut­son's consistency. A .224 hitter at Notre Dame coming into this season, he has held his average around .350 this season. 
"Tim has been a mainstay for us," says Irish coach Pat Murphy. "The book on him is that he's inconsistent, but he's been just the opposite. He's been so consistent. He has had a fantastic season." 
Hutson came to Notre Dame as a freshman not knowing what to expect from the Irish program. 
•

Fond memor1es of America's Team ... the Braves 
It's about that time again. 

In just a couple of weeks, I will be returning to my hometown of Tallahassee, Fla., for another summer full of fun. For me, summer with my friends in good ol' Tallytown means three things: 
1) Watching too many lousy movies on the VCR (Has anyone seen Night of the Comet or Grease 2 lately?) 
2) Wondering how we could possibly live in Florida when the nearest decent beach is almost two hours away. 
3) And last, but certainly not least, is following Atlanta Braves baseball. 
Yup, if it's starting to warm up here in South Bend, you know the empty seats at Atlanta Fulton­County Stadium are getting hot. And while you may take a look at the current National League standings and think I'm in for a long summer, then you're missing out on the real beauty of following my beloved Bravos. 
True Braves fans know their team is bad. Heck, the Atlanta Braves were born bad. Except for a couple of inexplicable mistakes in 1969 and 1982, the Braves have been models of consistency for their ineptitude. Harold Baines drives in 90 runs every year; the Braves lose 90 games every year. 
And my friends and I have been there through it all. Before our Wigwam Warriors became "America's Team" on Super Station WTBS, and the Braves played on an Atlanta cable station named WTCG, we tuned in to watch Darrell Chaney, Mike Lum, Vic Correll, et al., bumble their way through the summer. 
Eventually, WTBS started going nationwide on 

Steve Megargee 
Assistant Sports Editor 

cable, and people all across the country could watch the Braves. Not that anyone did, mind you, but they did have the opportunity. 
It was about this time that the Braves earned the moniker "America's Team." Let's be real. If I make a trip out to Walla Walla and head for the nearest sports bar I don't think I would see a bunch of people eating apple pie and cheering on the Braves (unless they were distant relatives of Dale Murphy himself). Anyone who has seen the empty seats at Fulton-County Stadium knows they aren't even Atlanta's Team. But that's beside the point. 
Growing up with the Braves added character to our lives. Those who didn't watch the old-time Braves of the late 1970's really do not know the memories they missed out on. 
The 17-game losing streak ... the day team owner Ted Turner decided to manage a game ... trying to decide who was a better reliever, Adrian Devine or Jamie Easterly ... wondering if uniforms could get any uglier ... watching the Pirates come into town and realizing, indeed they could ... wondering if we could watch a more boring team (San Diego? No, they still had Dave Winfield then. Texas? No, they lost, but at least they were interesting. Seattle? Bingo). 
In aH the years I've been watching this nutty bunch of ballplayers strive in vain to reach mediocrity, a few memories stick out in particular. 
First was the time the Braves came to Tallahas­see. Before marching onto another losing season, Atlanta's best baseball team (I think) challenged Florida State's ballclub to an exhibition game. The Seminoles won the contest 4-1, but that didn't faze any of us; we had grown accustomed to watching the Braves lose. 
What made this moment memorable was collect-
see BRAVES, page 11 







