Back to winter
IACCENT: 'Purlie' review 

Mostly cloudy and colder 
today with a chance of flurries 
toward evening. Tonight's low 
in the mid to upper teens. 
•
IVIEWPOINT: Repression 1n El Salvador 




Parrish wins by majority plus 1 

VOL. XXI, NO. 100 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By KATIE KEARNEY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The ticket of Julie Parrish, Lisa Hill and Christy Wolfe won the Saint Mary's student body run-off election over the Annie Buch ticket by only one more vote than necessary, said elec­tion commissioner Frannie Thompson. 

MDiMC ILICft.OMI 
8 
The new junior class officers are Lisa Catenacci and her run­ning mates. The sophomore run-off election was won by the Maggie Belin ticket, said Thompson. 
"The Parrish ticket received 50 percent plus two votes," said Thompson, explaining that "in order to win a run-off election, the party must receive 50 per­cent of the vote plus one vote."

Just sign on the dotted line ... The Buch ticket including 
Notre Dame men flooded the Great Hall in the highlights of the spring semester, Bookstore Bas­Carol Mahony and Kim Sartori O'Shaugnessy Hall Sunday to sign up for one of the ketball XVII. received 43 percent of the votes 
23 tickets will campaign in elections for class offices 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
By noon Friday, 23 tickets declared their candidacy in the March 8 election for class pres­ident, vice president, treasurer and secretary and will begin campaigning officially mid­night Tuesday March 1 for the March 8 election. 
Six tickets are seeking senior class offices, seven tickets are in the running for junior class offices and ten tickets are seeking sophomore class of­fice. 
There are two candidates running for the position of off­campus commissioner, juniors Ed Chestnut and Chris Koster. 
Among those seeking the senior class presidency are Joe 
Suplick,  along  with  vice­ 
presidential  candidate  Rick  
Carton,  T.J.  Smith  for  trea­ 

surer and Tom Proost for secretary. Flanner resident Tom Tisa is running with Lisa Jochum, John Brennan and An~ gela Ammon. Robert Man­danas is seeking the senior class presidency with Shaun Gray, Michelle Gabrich and John Buckley. 
Also running for senior class office is presidential candidate Norman Diebel on a ticket in­cluding Ken Fitzpatrick, Robert Fitz and Shannon McAl­lister. Grace resident Ted Zel­ler heads the ticket of Luke Sheridan, Steve Bishop and Terry Lally. Paul Kelly leads the ticket of Andy Kinney, 

Attitude toward minorities must change, says Bailey 
By MIKE O'CONNELL News Staff 
Dr. Adrienne Bailey, vice president of office affairs for the New York College Board, stressed the need for a change in the academic structure of colleges to create a greater awareness of and objectivity towards minorities in a lecture Sunday night about "The Chal­lenge to American Education" for minorities in society today. 
Contemporary technology calls for quality and diversity in education, she said. "You are either part of the solution, or part of the problem," Bailey said. "The number of black stu­dents is declining rapidly in higher education because of this passive attitude towards minorities in general. It is time for a change." 
All students must recognize the need for a college curricu­lum that includes the minority groups and their unique contri­butions to the history and de­velopment of human beings, said Bailey. 
''Today, our growing eco­nomy requires a new outlook, special aptitudes, and an edu­cational environment accept­ing of others," she said. 
"The future of America lies in a work force that can think, accept, and welcome change. Without an open college atmo­sphere that includes well­informed, caring teachers and high academic standards, the quality of students entering the work force will be deficient." 
Bailey used the example of a Stanford University case con­cerning the content of one of its Western culture courses re­quired by all freshman. 
The administration and fac­ulty have been arguing over the implications of this course as a requirement for Standford undergraduates -namely, the implication that Western civilization is the only culture worth studying, she said. 
The faculty is trying to change the name of the course to "Cultures, Values, and Ideas" and incorporate non­European culture classes which contribute to America. 
"The Stanford University debate is a perfect example of the lack of objectivity in higher-level academic institu­tions. A core reading list that is limited to European countries is insufficient." 

cast, according to official elec­tion results. 
The remaining 7 percent of the voters abstained when cas­ting their ballots. 
Thompson said 48 percent of the junior, sophomore and freshman classes voted. 
The race for the student body offices has been a close one. In the first election, results originally showed the Buch ticket defeated the Reilly ticket by one percent, putting the Buch ticket into the run-off against the Parrish ticket. 
After a recount petitioned by the Reilly ticket, an 11-vote dis­crepancy was discovered, but Reilly was still two votes too short to be included in the run­off. Reilly then petitioned for a revote, which was denied by the election committee. 
"We're really happy with the results," Parrish said. "It was a long hard race and we're glad 
see ELECTION, page 3 
Diana Billings  and  Bill  
Schmitz.  
Among  those running for  

junior class office are presiden­tial candidate Zoltan Ury, Bob McLaughlin for vice-president, Mary Brown for treasurer and Mark Allen for secretary. Dil­lon resident Brian Maggio is running with Bill Rudnik, Debbie Chartlesworth and Jackie Laboe, while Matt Bres­lin heads the ticket of AI DiGuilio, Carolyn Rey and Kim Hickey. 

Also running for junior class office are Erich Straub, along with running mates Karen Croteau, Dave Bruner and Maureen O'Brien. Bill Fitzgerald is running with Dee Dee Wroblewski, Jozef Henri­quez and Jack Brogan. Anne­Marie Walker heads the ticket of Jeff Heilert, Jim Kilway•and Dianne Lucian. Carroll resi­dent Craig Brummell leads the 
see TICKETS, page 3 

Columnist Art Buchwald to give Red Smith Lecture 
Special to The Observer 
Syndicated columnist and author Art Buchwald will deliver the 1988 Red Smith Lecture in Journalism on Wednesday, March 23. 
Buchwald, whose column for the Los Angeles Times Syndicate appears in some 530 newspapers in this country and abroad, will speak at 8 p.m. in Washing­ton Hall. 
The lectureship honors the late Red Smith, a 1927 graduate of Notre Dame and one of America's greatest sportswriters. Made possi­ble by a gift from Coca-Cola USA and administered by the department of American studies, the lectureship promotes the teaching of writing and journalism and recognizes high journalistic standards. The lectureship began in 1983, a year after Smith's death. 
Winner of the Pulitzer Prize in 1982 for distin­guished commentary, Buch­wald is this country's most widely read humorist and satirist. In 1986 he was elected to the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, making him only the third humorist since Mark Twain to be in­ducted into the academy. 
Buchwald is the author of 27 books, most are national best-sellers. His most recent collection, "I Think I Don't Remember," appeared last fall. Some earlier popular works include: "Son of the Great Society" (1966), "I Never Danced at the White 
see SPEAKER, page 5 


page 2 The Observer Monday, February 29, 1988 

Decision to run Fidelity ad


Of Interest 
c 

The Equestrian Club will meet tonight at 9 in Room 222 Hesburgh Library. Please attend if interested in riding in the show. -The Observer Leap into the record books today as Notre Dame attempts to set the intercollegiate record for leap frog at 4:30 p.m. on South Quad. Registration begins at 4 p.m. in front on O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer Ballroom Dance Club meets tonight at Stepan Center. Intermediate begins at 7 p.m. and beginners at 8 p.m. -The Observer Women's Caucus will sponsor a brown bag luncheon today from 12: 15 to 1 p.m. at the Center for Social Con­cerns. The topic will be "Women's Experiences in Academia and Graduate School" and the discussion will be led by faculty women who have recently earned their Ph.D.s. -The Observer Seniors wishing to try out to be Baccalaureate Mass readers must come to Sacred Heart Church at 4 p.m. Tuesday. Readings can be picked up at the Senior Class Office. -The Observer The Investment Club will meet tonight at 7 in Room 222 of Hayes-Healy. -The Observer Suzanne Marilley from the government department will speak on the platforms of the presidential candidates and answer questions tonight at 7 in the Farley Hall middle room. -The Observer Students interested in the concentration in peace studies should attend a meeting today at 4 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in the LaFortune Student Center. The meeting will be led by George Lopez, director of Un­dergraduate Studies, Institite for International Peace Studies. -The Observer Career and Placement Services is sponsoring a Government Career Day Wednesday, March 2 from noon until 4 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. Rep­resentatives from federal, state and local government agencies will be in attendance to discuss summer employ­ment and career opportunities available in the government sector. -The Observer Human Rights Internship applications for the summer of 1988 in Washington, D.C. are now being ac­cepted by the Kellogg Institute. Applications can be picked up in Room 121 Decio Faculty Hall and are due by March 21. For information call239-6580 or 239-7233. -The Observer The Women's Care Center, a pregnancy help center, is holding a training session for volunteers during the weekend of March 4. Volunteers will be trained to provide pregnancy testing, crisis counseling and commu­nity referrals. The session will be held on campus in the Knights of Columbus building. Contact the Women's Care Center today through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or Friday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 234-0363 for more infor­mation. -The Observer The Collegiate Jazz Festival needs ticket takers, stage crew and many other workers for all three sessions of the festival April 8 and 9. Anyone interested should call Ken Schwartz at 283-1100. -The Observer "Self R~flections," a recent series of drawings by Boston artist John Steczynski, will be exhibited in the Isis Gallery on the third floor of the Riley Hall of Art and Design from Feb. 28 through March 25. The artist will be on campus tonight at 7:30 to discuss his work in Room 200 of Riley Hall, and an opening reception will follow imme­diately in the Isis Gallery. For more information call the department of art, art history and design at 239-7602. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor.. . .... Jane Anne Riedford ............................................Greg Guffey Design Assistant .............. Michelle Dall Accent Copy Editor ....... Robyn Simmons Typesetters... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Michael Buc Accent Layout............. Katy Kronenberg ........................................... Daniel Cahill Typiots .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. Will Zamer News Editor... .. ... Ann Marie Durning ................................ Katherine Harrigan Copy Editors... .. ............... Greg Lucas .................................Kendra Lee Morrill ND Day Editor .... .. .... .. .. Beth Cornwell Sporto Copy Editors ....... Rick Rietbrock Photographer. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Donald Pan Tile ot.lnet" (USPS 599 2.ol000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriDJ exam and vacation periods. Tile O!Mei'Yel' is published by tbe students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2.S per semester) by writiD& Tile Olleertel', P.O. Box Q, Notre Dune, Indiana 46SS6. Tile ot.lnel' is a manber of Tile Allodalld rr-. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

re-evaluated after uproar
About four days ago I made the most serious mistake of my tenure as editor-in-chief of The Kevin Observer. 
I am going to detail that mistake in this Becker column because I feel it is important to be ac­countable for my own decisions and not pass any guilt on to those who work for our organi­zation. 
The mistake I refer to is the advertisement for Fidelity magazine which ran in The Obser­ver on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week. After reflecting on some of the issues raised by the strong community reaction to the ad, I realize that the ad should not have run as it appeared in our paper. 
Some time ago, I read the article to which the ad referred and found it to be distasteful. I believe that the author's brand of radically con­servative Catholicism led him to make asserta­tions and connections between the death of Fa­ther Niels Rasmussen and dissent in the Church that an objective journalist would not have made. In short, I did not agree with the article's conclusions and content. Nevertheless, I thought that the author was entitled to his opinion. that was obviously more sound. 
When I made the decision to run the ad (the After reflecting on the arguments of those decision was not made by the editorial board), who disagreed with my decision, I realize that I believe that I had solid reasons for making there were several things that I did not fully that decision. When the ad came into the office, consider when deciding to run the ad: the effect my initial reaction was that the ad was pretty of the ad on Father Rasmussen's colleagues, offensive. When one of the editors asked if we students and friends; the possible motives be­should run it, however, I had to decide what hind the publisher's wanting to advertise in The the reasons for not running it would be. Observer for the first time in almost three 
After deliberation, I came to the conclusion years; and the appearance of the ad which that my reason for not running this ad would many found distasteful. be to censor its author. Given my predisposition After a period of "editorial blandness" (as against the subject matter, I felt that I would one professor termed it), The Observer has not be running the ad because of my personal tried to open its pages to all viewpoints this tastes. In an effort to be objective and to protect year. Up to this point, I believe that we have the publisher's right to express his opinion in been relatively successful. With the Fidelity ad, an advertisement, I allowed the ad to run ex­I believe that I went too far in trying to maintain actly as it was given to us. this openness. 
That was the reasoning behind the decision. Although Fidelity is entitled to advertise in It was not an easy decision to make. In fact it the paper, there were more tasteful ways to was the most difficult decision I've made as present this advertisement. Its publisher's editor-in-chief. Unfortunately, it was not the opinion could have been conveyed in a less of­right decision. fensive way. 
I was wrong. When The Observer ran the story on Rasmus­
The ad was graphic in its depiction of a sensi­sen's death, we made the editorial decision not tive issue. I realize that it was sensational and to sensationalize the situation. I should have overtly provocative. held to the same standards for the Fidelity ad. 
Adding to the shocking appearance of the ad­Although I had well thought out reasons for vertisement was the fact that Rasmussen was the decision, it was neither a correct nor con­well-liked and well-respected in this communi­sistent one. ty. Many people were offended by what they My hopes in writing this column are twofold. perceived to be desecration of his memory. First, I hope you realize that the original deci­
Members of the community reacted to the ad sion was difficult and reasoned --and not at all vehemently. Letters were written and phone influenced by the insignificant monetary gain calls were made. Several were mad at me per­from the ad. Second, I hope you understand sonally and had no qualms about informing me that I, and my successor, have learned from of their feelings. The facts of the ad were chal­this mistake. lenged, and The Observer's verification of those It is never my intention to offend any member facts was called "hearsay." of this community with my decisions. Know that 
Finally, some community members chal­I have grown from this error and that out of it lenged my reasons for running the ad and coun­has come a newspaper more aware of its place tered my defense of the decision with reasoning in and effect on this community. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ 

~ St. Patrick's Day Ball ~ ~ "Sadie Hawkins Style" ~ 

~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 

~ ~ Saturday March 5 ~ ~ 
~ ~9 30 ' 1 00 ~ ~ 
~ ~ : pm-: a~ ~ ~ ~ $5.00 ~ ~ 

~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ South Dining Hall ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ Tickets available in the Dining Halls 2-28 -311., ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ from dorm FAC reps, and at the SUB office. ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Sponsored by SUB, Classes of '89, '90, '91 ~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

--~ 

Monday, February 29, 1988 · 




Leapfroggers to try to set record today 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR Staff Reporter 
An attempt to establish the record for the largest intercol­legiate leapfrog competition will be held on South Quad today at 4:30p.m. 
There is presently no record for such a competition, accor­ding to Diane Magill, student union board publicity commis­sioner. "We hope to establish one," she said. 
The competition, which is sponsored by SUB and the classes of 1989, 1990 and 1991, is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and fac­ulty who register today from 4pm until start time. There is no cost for registration. 
SUB representatives said they had no idea how many stu­dents would participate or how many to prepare for, but Magill said, "We want it to be real big.'' 
The leapfrog competition kicks off an SUB-sponsored week of events under the name "Celebrate St. Patrick's Day a 'Wee' Bit Early," which in­cludes a Pub Night at Theodore's and performances by an Irish music band. 
Notre Dame's last attempt at a similar record took place Sept. 6, 1985, when 5,151 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents assembled on Green Field and broke the intercol­legiate musical chairs record. 


I he Observer 1 Donald Pan 

New Year celebration 
To celebrate the Chinese_ New Year that began last such as these dumplings, at the Wilson Commons week, members of the Chtnese Students Association · graduate residence Sunday. 
of Notre Dame prepared traditional Chinese meals, 
The Belin ticket defeated Molly Bringardner and her running



Election 
mates, Tara Kearney, Kerri 

continued frotn page 1 
Gustafson and Kate Matuszak, 

who received 30 percent of the it's over. The closeness of the votes cast. race shows a great concern for Annie Buch said she and her student government, and we running mates "had a good hope the other tickets stay in­time running for office, and volved." would like to thank everyone 




COPIES 
At Kinko's, you get high quality copies and you get them fast! 
kinko·s· 
• 
Copies • Office Supplies • Convenient Hours 

• 
Binding • Floppl' Disks • Specialty Papers 


~~~ ::r::.~:~~ <18137 Tefephone 219 271~1M 

GROW WITH A 

FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your 
potential,  look  into  the  many  
opportunities  available  in  NAVY  
MEDICINE.  
• Medical Scholarships  

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses 



The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a professional career plus the unique benefits and rewarding lifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefits 



A Navy Medical Programs representative will be on campus on March 2, 1988 JOB FAIR. Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. 
1-800-527-8836 

~~§!~~~~~~~~~i~~~~§~§§~~ 




r. • • • • • -:::c:u::::D-:O~A· ..!!uS~E!~e~ 
BIG CLASSIC HAMBURGER I AND REGULAR FRIES I 
FOR ONLY $1 79 I
I • 
I 
Good at all parttcipatlng Wendy's. Not valid • with any other offer. Please present coupon 
when ordering. One coupon per customer

I I
visit. Bacon, Cheese and Tax extra. 

I Best Burgers I I In the Business.n~ • 
1 • 
oFFER EXPIREs MARcH u, t988 with Norm Conley, Liz Varga 
...............•IIIII and Kelly Golden. 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY DEAN MICHAEL J. LOUX AND THE FACULTY OF THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETIERS 
6:30 P.M. TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 1988 ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
for their support. We wish the Parrish ticket the best of luck." 
In the junior class race, Lisa Catenacci, Tara Melichar, Deidre Milon and Carol Berkowski were swept into of­fice receiving 58 percent of the votes cast. They defeated the Rachael Jarosh ticket including Kathy Sullivan, Chris Rockman and Patti Johnson who received 21 percent and the Jill Terry ticket of Kristin Anderson, Coleen Keefe and Chrissy Hajduch who received 15 percent of the vote. 
The sophomore class election winner is the Maggie Belin ticket of Kerry Anne Weber, Debbie Rybarczyk and Kathy O'Dwyer with 65 percent of the vote. 
=~.:----::------­
ti~ket of Stacy O'Gr~dy, Sean
Hickey and Kelly Uhnger. Those running for sophomore class office include presiden­
tial candidate Jim Fitzgerald on a ticket with ViCe-president 
Mary Ann Cendella, treasurer 
John Buehling and secretary Michelle Richards. Keenan resident Dennis Lynch heads a 
ticket with Jennifer Salmon, Mick Meyer and Mimi Prech­tel. Matthew Burke is runping 
Also seeking sophomore class office are Stanford resi­dent Frank Timons, running with Charlotte Kaufman, Sigi Loya and Mary Sue Twohy. Steve Schmidt heads the ticket of Tiffany Israel, Tom Wiltburger and Derrick Johnson. Jim McCarthy is run­ning with John David Yoder, Amy Raczkowski and David Archer. 
Holy Cross resident Bill Neuenfeldt is running with Kevin Moffa, Amy Patria and Marian Rukovina. Robert Pasin leads the ticket of Stacy Farrar, Julie Shadd and Steve Wagner. Scott Mussori is run­ning with Amy Meyer, Mike Butler and Stephanie Snyder while Maria Jukic seeks the presidency along with Bryan Boswell, Amy Regan and Craig Kleis. 
The campaign period will run for one week from midnight Tuesday March 1 to midnight March 7. The election will be held March 8. 
If no ticket receives 50 per­cent of the vote, a run-off elec­tion will be held on March 10 after a 24-hour campaigrting period. 

pagEJ 4 Monday, February 29, 1988
The Observer 

~--------------------~---.--------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 29, 1988 The Observer 

Speaker 
continued from page 1 
House" (1973), "The Buchwald 
Stops Here" (1978), "While 
Reagan Slept" (1983), and 
''You Can Fool All of the People 
All The Time" (1985). 
Buchwald, who joined the 
Marines during World War II 
before finishing high school, 
was active in student jour­
nalism while attending the Uni­
versity of Southern California. 
He left USC in 1948 without 
completing his degree to live 
and write in Paris. 
In 1949, Buchwald began to 
contribute a column to the 
European edition of The New 
York Herald Tribune. Early in 
1952, the column, "Europe's 
Lighter Side," started to ap­
in this and 
1959 Time magazine noted that Buchwald's work in Paris had achieved "an institutional quality." 
After 14 years abroad, Buch­wald returned to the United States in 1962, taking up residence in Washington, D.C., and launching a column, "Capitol Punishment." His running commentary on Amer­ican political life, especially the activities of presidents, is characterized by a playful treatment of the powerful. "I consider myself the cruise director on the Titanic," he said recently, "We may not get there, but I'm going first class." 
Following Buchwald's visit to Notre Dame, his Red Smith Lecture will be printed and dis­
r
tributed by Coca-Cola USA to journalists and educators across the 

The Observer'/ Donald Pan • 
Pre-Bookstore practice 
Sorin residents try to get a jump on their Bookstore early practice Sunday on the courts behind the Basketball tournament competition by getting in an bookstore. 
Republicans spar in Atlanta, Maine victory claimed for Bush 
more 
• Naval Officers rece1ve pay and allowances worlhy of a profess1onal and, thanks 16 exira benef11s such as free denial and medical care. housmg, and commissary and exchange pnvi­leges, you keep more of whal you earn. 

Associated Press 
George Bush, whose backers claimed victory Sunday in Maine's Republican presiden­tial caucuses, was attacked by chief rival Bob Dole on the Iran-Contra affair. Rep. Jack 
SUNDAY, MARCH 6,7:30 pm Kemp, meanwhile, blasted the MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM two GOP frontrunners on ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 taxes. 
(includes $.50 for Building lmorovement Fund) As the Democrats geared up TICKETS ON SALE NOW for their second debate in two AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX days, Michael Dukakis OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS. WORLD RECORDS AND grabbed an early lead in the TAPES AND J.R.'S. CHARGE: (21 284_9190 Maine Democratic caucuses. illl••lliiiiilllliiiiiiiil••••llllll•••••ll The Massachusetts governor 
USE YOUR COLLEGE DEGREE TO GO PLACES 
• 
Whatever your personal and professional goals. you can probably gel there faster in lhe NAVY. Our various officer programs offer inler­nalional scope and world-recognized prestige. 

• 
Navy leadership and executive management 1rain1ng go hand-in-hand lo prepare you for an exciting role as a Naval Officer. 

• 
Upward Mobility is more lhan JUSI a promise; il's a reality. Promotions come regularly as your experience and knowledge increase. Many of lo­day"s leaders in business, government and the professions have successfully completed a ca­reer as a Naval Officer. 





Your options and opporlun­ilies are as varied and chal­lenging as your interests. 
Navy Officers are: 

• 
Aviators who fly F-14 TOMCATS 

• 
Engineers on Nuclear Submarines 

• 
Computer Specialists 

• 
Doctors 

• 
Business Managers 

• 
Procu remenl and Fiscal Managers 

• 
Civil Engineers 

• 
Lawyers 


• 
Meteorologists and much 


• 
30 days paid vacation each year allows you lo enJOY some of lhe fringe benefits and travel pppor1un111es available through lhe Navy. 

• 
All of lh1s is jusI a pari of lhe story: only a Naval Off1cer who has expenenced il for h1mself can tell you whal 11"s really like. 





NAVY REPRESENTATIVES 

WILL BE AT THE FEDERAL JOB FAIR 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING  EDUCATION  
ON  MARO-!  2,  1988 from  12-4 p.m.  
FOR MORE  INFORI-'!ATION,  CALL 'ID.i.L­ 
ffit:F·  


1--800-527-8836 
had been favored to score a vic­tory on his New England home turf. 
The caucuses pick delegates to the parties' state conven­tions this spring, where na­tional convention delegates are chosen. 
At a Republican debate in At­lanta-their first full-scale face­off of the Southern campaign ­Dole took aim at Bush for the Reagan administration's deci­sion to trade arms for hostages in the Iran-Contra affair. That, he said, was a big mistake. 
"We never should trade arms 

for hostages. We shouldn't issue these reports and say we 
"ORTEGA AND the Sandinistas have more friends in Congress than U.S. taxpayers do. The same good folks who helped turn Saigon into Ho Chi Minh City are trying to make Com­munism permanent in Managua, as it is still known." 
J-or a free copy of the current i~!->UC of Nati(mal Review write to Dept UN IV. 150 Ea" .151h Street New York, N.Y 
IOOib 

shouldn't trade arms for hostages -the vice president's report -and then later go to a meeting and say it's all right. We shouldn't do those things," Dole said, holding up a report on terrorism that was written by a presidential commission headed by Bush. 
Bush did not respond di­rectly, but did say "mistakes were made" in the Iran-Contra affair. 
Kemp, whose campaign has been faltering after poor showings in early contests, ac­cused Bush and Dole of sup­porting tax hikes. 
-~'sHair 
• s~ 
531 N. MicllifGn St:. Phone lJJ-4957 


LAST CHANCE 
TO GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER For the 
~ 



LIP-SYNC CONTEST 
f Saturday, March 5 
$200 GRAND PRIZE!!! 

*Interested acts contact Maura x2745 or Mark x1184 by Monday, Feb. 29. Sponsored by SUB & Theodore's 


page 6 



Security Beat 
Friday, February 26 

I 0:45 a.m. A Morrissey H a 11 resident reported the theft of a gold watch, necklace, and rope bracelet from his room around I p.m. on Feb. 17. 
10:55 a.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported the theft of a leather coat from her unlocked room sometime between 4 p.m. on Feb. 24 and 10 a.m. on Feb. 26. 
4:30 p.m. A South Bend resident reported losing her white turtleneck shirt at the Joyce ACC on Feb. 20 around 12:30 a.m. 
Saturday, February 27 

2:30a.m. A Vanderbilt University student reported the theft of his coat from the Alumni/Senior Club sometime between 10:30 p.m. on Feb. 26 and 2:08a.m. on Feb. 27. 
I :55 p.m. A South Bend resident reported that someone had damaged her outside rearview mirror when her car was parked near Gate 2 of the Joyce ACC around 7 p.m. on Feb. 22. 
3:10 p.m. A key ring with three keys on it was found in the area of the Memorial Fountain and turned in to Security. 
4:10 p.m. Two off-campus students reported the theft of their wallets and a duffle bag from outside racquetball court I of the Joyce ACC between 3:30 and 3:50p.m. Their loss is valued at $230. 
7:48 p.m. Two students were ejected from the Notre Dame vs. Van-
The Observer 

derbilt basketball game for consuming alcohol in the arena. 
10 p.m. A Cavanaugh 1-iall resident reported the theft of a calculator and gold pen from Room 364 of Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering around 5:30p.m. His loss is estimated at $50. 
Sunday, February 28 
12:25 a.m. Security assisted the Notre Dame Fire Department in re­sponding to a false alarm at Cavanaugh Hall. 
5 p.m. A Holy Cross Junior College student reported the loss of his wallet between Stepan Center and the Hesburgh Library sometime around 4:30p.m. 
U.N. session to condemn U.S. move to close PLO mission 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -The United States, its U.N. prestige and influence already at an all­time low, faces a showdown Monday when the General As­sembly convenes an emergency session to condemn 
U.S. efforts to close the PLO mission. 
Some Arab leaders say they want to shift the next General Assembly meeting to Geneva to punish the United States for harrassing the Palestine Liberation Organization, which the United Nations recognizes. 
The entire U.N. operation here, including the General As­sembly, funnels $400 million to $700 million year into the U.S. and New York economies, ac­cording to the U.S. mission. 
The 42nd General Assembly will reconvene for at least three days beginning Monday and consider two resolutions re­garding the PLO mission. 
One reaffirms the PLO's right to operate and calls on the United States to honor its treaty obligations, the other calls for a ruling by the Inter­national Court of Justice. 
The move to shut the PLO mission comes as Secretary of State George Shultz is on a cri­tical Middle East visit aimed at initiating Middle East peace talks and ending the 11-week Palestinian uprising in Israel's occupied territories. 
State Department and United Nations lawyers say Congress' new anti-terrorist legislation, which would close the PLO's U.N. observer mis­sion, is illegal and violates the 1947 Headquarters Agreement. 

Former Attorney General Ramsey Clark, legal adviser to the PLO, told the Associated Press Saturday, "We assume the United States doesn't want to be an international outlaw and will, therefore, honor its obligations.'' 
PLO ambassador Zehdi Labib Terzi told the AP that the 
U.S. action against the PLO mission is harming Shultz' chances in the Middle East. 
"The Palestinians are being killed in their own home, and this is an attempt to stifle their voice in the international com­munity. This is not a message of peace, but a requiem," he said. 

Freshman Chris Zorich takes advantage of Sunday's sun and (relatively) warm weather to read the Bible on the front porch of Sorin Hall. 

~fu: ru_niu£'L~ity a( c:::::l\!otrz_£ !ham£  
and th£  
Ilnuit£ th£ c:::::l\!ot'L£ fJ::Jam£ ~tud£nt !Body  
to th£ fJ::J£dication o (  
"The Knute Rockne Commemorative Stamp"  
with Prz_incipaf ~p£akt:'l- 
PRESIDENT RoNALD REAGAN  
dVt.awh 9J 1988  
at tl'u:,  
:JoyC!.e clftf:letiC!. & ContJoC!.ation Cente"l, c:;;lh,ena  
at  
12:30 p.m. Tickets will be free, but required  
Information regarding time and place for ticket  
distribution will be made available at a later date  
AOWOOI(S  






Accent

'Purlie' performance 'somewhat victorious' 
TAMRYN ETTEN accent writer 

P 
urlie Victorious was, well, somewhat victorious. The musical ··rurlie," named after the lead character Purlie Vic­torious, entertained a medium­sized audience in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium Friday night. 
Purlie, a newly declared black preacher man, returned to his hometown with a young girl named Lutlebelle to reclaim an inheritance that belonged to his sister. Lutiebelle was to pose as Purlie's niece and reclaim her supposed dead mother's money. 
The money was being kept by a white, dictatorial landlord who owned the farm where Purlle and his relatives worked and lived. Because of his finan­cial power, he was able to keep his workers, 90 years after the Emancipation Proclamation, in virtual slavery. 
The songs in the musical reflected the oppressive years of slavery, but added the twist of jazz and soul that the libera­tion of the 20th century brought. The I I member cast sung about the "New Fangled Preacher Man" and what they would do ''First Thing Monday Morning". 
Lutiebelle was played by Vanessa Jones, who studies vocal performance at Brooklyn College. Jones had the most awesome voice--there are just no other words for it. She could give lessons to Whitney Houston. 
Her fellow cast members were not far behind in vocal talent. Purlie, played by Jeff Reid, had a tenor voice that reached notes that only tenors can, while Gltlow (Gregory Taylor), Purlie's brother-in-law, hit the notes on the opposite end of the scale. 
There were occasions, though, when the voices were drowned out by the tantalizing electric guitar and electric bass. But that only occurred when they were 'jammin'." 
The blocking and choreog­raphy, especially of the farm workers who sported very few lines but very much activity, were just as professional as the music. 
Finally, Purtle's long-winded, bone-chilling, "Alleluia, Amen" preaching would scare any God-fearing Christian, even if he didn't understand what Purlie was saying. 
Although the talent of the performers seemed endless, as one audience member pointed out the songs seemed a bit out of place. 
1 felt the same, attributing it to the fact that the musical was adapted from the play "Purlie Victorious". No exposition was achieved through the music-­the audience really didn't learn anything from the lyrics of the songs, which became really obvious after the intermission. 
The story had to come to a resolution. Purlie was unable to obtain the money as he had 
planned and at the ~ottermis­
sion had left to "get" the white 
bigoted landowner. 
This conflict was weak, and 
no music was used in resolving 
it. The second half had only 
five musical numbers, com­
pared to I I in the first half. 
As another audience member pointed out it was not Broad­way material, although it did remain on the Broadway stage for over two years. 

The performance was brought to Saint Mary's by Daedalus Productions, a com­pany which tours yearly with different Broadway produc­tions. It has brought "Evita" and "Ain't Misbehavin"' to Saint Mary's in the past. 
As usual, Daedalus produc­tions spared no expense in providing the most suitable costuming and sets. The audi­ence members didn't doubt that they were on a poor Southern plantation about 30 years ago. 
Despite some weaknesses in the story line, the audience seemed to enjoy the perfor­mance. 
"Purlie" was victorious be­cause it was able to raise serious issues in a non­offensive light. It was set before the civil rights era of the 60's, but the questions it raised are still relevant. 
At one point in the play, one of the characters asked about the definition of freedom. They had been freed in the 1860's, so why couldn't they get out from under the tyrannical reign of their white landowner? 
Another asked what was worth fighting for. If they fought for freedom and got slavery, what else was "worth" it? Women? Money? 
As most stories, "Purlie" also had its happy ending. The white tyrannical landowner met his death and his workers ob­tained their freedom and lived happily ever after. 
page 7 
Soap update 

Patch donates kidney; Eve adopted on 'Days' 
All My Children: Travis and Erica adjusted to life with their new baby. Cindy was taken to the hospital in critical condi­tion. Adam comforted a dis­traught Stuart. Cliff consid­ered returning to South America. Nina wouldn't sign the divorce papers and ad­mitted to Mira that she's preg­nant. Coming: Nina wonders about the baby's father. Another World: Reg shot Mi· chael, then struggled with Donna until they both tumbled from a second-story window. Loretta got a warm reception from everyone ex­cept her sons. Jamie walked out on Lisa. Scott worried about the outcome of Dawn's lawsuit. Coming: A villain's untimely end. As The World Turns: Roy was upset to hear that Thornton was looking for work in Oak­dale. Lyla was surprised by Beau's Interest. The Hugheses arranged for Laura to visit her children. Sabrina accepted Seth's proposal. Lien ran away. Monica disappeared 
and her playhouse burned down. Coming: Rendezvous in Edinburgh. Dallas: Lisa and Bobby fought over Christopher In court. Bobby lashed out at J.R. for his involvement with Lisa. April endangered herself and Nicholas by learning his true identity. Unable to cope with Clayton's presumed affair, Miss Ellie fled Southfork. Kim­berly held a secret meeting with Casey. Coming: Nicholas fights for his life. Days OfOur Lives: Patch came out of his coma but refused to tell Jack why he donated the kidney. Nick called Shane after realizing that Eve needed help. Shane adopted Eve. Jus­tin's underworld contact couldn't help Diana. Roman discovered that Serena's kid­napping was a hoax to free Diana. Coming: Patch and Kayla start over. Falcon Crest: Tension nared between Maggie and Richard over Angela's visits with Mi­chael and Garth's presence in their home. Lance pursued his investigation of the deaths at Falcon Crest to help Emma. Vickie and Eric realized they had underestimated Richard. Angela piqued Melissa's Inter­est in Frank's mysterious ac­tivities. Coming: Maggie refuses to give in. General Hospital: Terry was charmed by Colton. T~m made a tactless remark after learning of Simone's preg­nancy, but they were finally 
married. Monica threatened Alan with divorce. Robert and Duke realized that Grant took Anna away. Anna escaped and got lost in freezing woods. Robert found Putnam's hideout and stopped him from going over a cliff. Duke arrived to find Anna in Scor­pio's arms. Coming: The rivalry continues. Guiding Light: While Josh's party guests awaited him, Will pushed him offa bridge. Reva saved Josh and Alan saved 

her. Will headed for the darkroom after Sonni told him about Reva's damaging photos. Ed announced that Johnny's tumor had shrunk. Johnny comforted Chelsea over her break-up. Coming: Reva's life hangs by a thread. Knots Landing: Mack and Karen were crushed when Greg decided to take Meg back. Val faced Gary In court to block his claim on the twins. Paige found herself again involved with Johnny. Olivia got angry upon learning that her mother's marriage to Charles was cancelled. Abby decided to go ahead with the Lotus Point marina expansion project. Coming: Olivia falls into danger. Loving: Alex told a terrified Ava that the real Clay was dead. Ava agreed to carry on as usual because of her feelings for Alex. Lily defied Rick over her desire for Jack and made sure Stacey over­heard her confession. Stacey told Jack they were finished. Jim chose Shana over the priesthood. Coming: Lily seizes an opportunity. One Life To Live: Clint injured Buck. Max erupted when he learned that Gabrielle spent the money he loaned her for the ranch to buy Delila's busi­ness. Clint tried to get back home. Bo told Vikl they found a body that Asa identified as Clint. Tina went undercover in Italy to find her baby. Coming: Clint's loved ones mourn. Ryan's Hope: Maeve, Frank and a medical team burst Into Dakota's apartment and found Johnny barely alive. 
Johnny went into cardiac ar­rest. Dakota confessed his in­volvement with Meredith Drake to the family. Jack quit the paper after meeting the new owner--Lee Kirkland. Sherri and Emily fought about the letter. Coming: The family prays for Johnny. 
Santa Barbara: Andrea was freed after Kathleen was found to be ~he assassin. Cruz caught Richard, but Kathleen shot Cruz while holding him hostage. Mason came out of his coma calling Julia's name. Tori agreed to a divorce but insisted that she and Mason go to Santo Tomaso. C.C. went after T.J. with a gun after finding him in bed with Sop· hia. Smarting from Scott's rejection, Gina gave In to Keith's seduction. Coming: Gina has immediate regrets. The Young Bt The Restless: Jessica admitted to Cricket that Richard, her father, might be alive. Jill was stunned when Rex showed her his en­gagement ring for Kay. Lauren pressured Brad not to quit the foundation. Tracl fumed when Brad vetoed the idea of having a baby. Nina's theatrics didn't move Philip. Leanna begged Ashley to give their friendship another chance. Coming: Marc con­centrates on Nikki. 
1988, McNaught Synd. 



View


Monday, February 29, 1988 
•

'Peace' 1n El Salvador 
Editor's Note: The following is the first of two works received from a 1987 Notre Dame graduate which describes her views of the situation in El Salvador. 
The year 1988 brings a new year of repression and suffering to the people of El Salvador as the civil war here enters its ninth year. What might have been seen as a year of real hope for this country as well as the rest of Central America in light of the peace plan a few months ago, now looks as though it will only be a harder and even more repressive one for the people here. 
Erica Dahl-Bredine 
guest column 

Although the new year is only three weeks old, the suffering has already taken its toll. One of the new repatriation sites--a group of the recently returned refugees from Honduras--has had two people cap­tured and one severely beaten up by soldiers. In the small villages on the coast of Usulutan and particularly the village of San Juan del Gozo, the soldiers are not allowing the people to go out and fish for food, nor are the churches allowed to bring in any food, because the military claims it is food for the FMLN guerrillas. The people are continually threatened and terrorized by the soldiers there and several of the leaders of the com­munity have been captured and tor­tured several times. 
The committee of the Mothers of the Disappeared has been outside the cathedral in San Salvador for several days protesting the recent torturing and killing of two men who were in the custody of the Hacienda Police as well as demanding the whereabouts of several political prisoners. 
Forced recruiting by the army continues, affecting only the poor and the powerless and forcing many youths to fight against their own brothers. Several days ago I stood outside the army barracks in San Salvador waiting to enter to speak with the colonel along with some 50 or 60 mothers and families of boys who had just been recruited. Mostly "campesinos" and displaces people, amny of the women were crying and several told me how their sons had been seen being taken off a bus by soldiers three days before and they were still waiting to hear some word about them. Many told me their sons were the only ones in the family working and bringing home a little money to support the family. Others were students, which is supposed to exempt them from the recruitment; a few were only 16 years old. 
When I was finally allowed to enter the barracks, I was led past the room where the new recruits were waiting­-some looked no older than 15 and all seemed very frightened. "Irma," one mother I talked with for a while on the way out, told me that she didn't have much hope for getting her son out because whe had no money for a bribe and no connections in the army, the two generally un­derstood methods of keeping a boy out of the army. There are plenty of upper class teenagers ridin_g the buses because they know their families have the "resources" or the connections to keep them out-­several have told me as much. 
Hardly an example of democracy, this system has the poor fighting and losing their lives to protect the inter­ests and security of the tiny minority who control nearly everything in this country, often having to turn against their own families. 
Perhaps the most appalling thing that has happened here recently was the attack on the refugee camp, San Jose Calle Real, just outside the cap­ital. The camp is a shelter for dis­placed people who have fled the ter­ror and suffering in other parts of the country--a community of families, mostly women and children. On Saturday, Jan. 16, more than 200 soldiers, their faces painted black, entered the camp with a list of 12 to 15 names of supposed guer­rillas and "sympathizers" that they wanted to take out. They searched the entire camp, but when they tried to forcibly carry some men out, the people gathered around them in a throng large enough to prevent the soldiers from taking them. 
The next day, however, at approx­imately 9 p.m. soldiers surrounded the camp and began machine gun­ning into the camp. The firing went on for three hours and several small bombs were thrown inside as well. One man who was sitting up in a bed right outside the clinic was shot in the stomach. No one else was hurt, but a few days ago when I went to visit the camp, the people showed me the bullet holes in the trees and the tin roofs of the buildings where they live and then a few large holes in the roofs from the bombs. The people are all extrmemly afraid now and are sleeping together in two large groups for security, not knowing when the next attack might come. 
This is the farthest that the mili­tary has ever gone in its hostility against the refugee camp, actually opening fire on an unarmed civilian population. Their later claim that the firing had begun from within the camp has been dismissed as ludi­crous by all. When the El Salvador desk at the U.S. State Department was questioned by a concerned North American, their answer was that the people at the camp had com­mitted a criminal offense in not al­lowing the soldiers to carry out the 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The ObMrver i1 the indepetICient ,_..,..,... publilhed by the ltUdenll of the University of Noire o.me du Lac and s.lnt ~·· College. II doel not neceuarily reflect the policin of 
the 8dminiltration of lither inltilullon. The Newl il repolted u accurately and otljeclively u pouible. Unsigned editorial~ repreunt the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. leiter~ and the lnaide Column pr..m the viewl of their authorl. Column 1Pf1C8 
is available to all memberl of the IChool community, and the !rae exprellion of v8tying opinions on campus. through leiter~, il enc:oureged. 
men the day before, implying that such a retaliation would be justified, innocent civilians present or not. 
Several days after the attack in Calle Real, one of seven interna­tional volunteers was driving out of the camp with a group of women from the community when they were stopped by a car with dark windows and three heavily armed men in ci­vilian clothes. They were ordered to get out of the car and when they refused, the men began to hit the volunteer on the head with a gun and tried to pull the women out of the car. When the volunteer told them he was a North American, they stopped and drove off. Such activi­ties are known to be the work of the death squads which appear to be on the rise again in El Salvador. 
The army has cut off almost all access to the population communit­ies and all the communities in the countryside which are being most repressed. They have made it nearly impossible for international volun­teers or delegations to visit by refus­ing permission or requiring docu­ments that would be almost impossible to produce. Military roadblocks are set up on the roads in nearly all directions out into the countryside and are not even allow­ing food and building materials for the people to pass in most cases. In this manner, the military is silencing the voice of the people, keeping it from telling the reality to the rest of the world, the suffering and sense­less repression the people are living in. 
It is this kind of a repressive at­mosphere that prevails in "democratic" El Salvador these days, in the country that, according to Duarte, has fully complied with the spirit and letter of Esquipolas II. While almost all the attention of the peace plan is being focused on Nicaragua's "failure to comply," it is generally assumed in the U.S., mostly because of the severe lack of information in the press, that democracy and human rights have already been achieved in El Sal­vador. The people here feel every­thing but even a semblence of democracy and human rights. 

Yet in the midst of this grim sit­uation, there is hope as there always will be among a people of such faith and strength. They are far from giving up and many, many people are planning or are in the process of "going home" again. One of the refugee camps near the coast of La Libertad is closing down as the people return to the countryside to try to begin over. Many displaced people in the capital are returning to their places of origin and those in refugee camps in Honduras are making plans to join those who returned in October. Although the places they are returning to are areas of conflict and probably more repression, the people are deter­mined to begin building a newEl Sal­vodor through their communities, living and farming their own land once again and making their own demonstrations of peace and new life through these new beginnings. 
I met a family of five children in a little village in the department of Usulutan last week who sing to­gether beautifully in their own little family choir. The first song the kids chose to sing for me was a simple child's cry for peace that I can't for­get. The chorus sings: "Peace; we want peace and liberty in this world 
No more hunger, no more war. We want peace in our land Peace, we want peace and liberty in this world ... " The only world the children of El Salvador have ever known is one of 
war and hunger. They leave the chal­
lenge to help bring peace to their 
land in this new year at our feet. How 
will we respond? 
Erica Dahl-Bredine is a 1987 Notre Dame graduate currently doing volunteer work with a missionary or­der in El Salvador. 
{0~
,, ,, 

Pax Cl1 reflects o 
Editor's Note: The f is the first in a series run in the Viewpoint cide with President to campus. 
We, the members Notre Dame, wei Reagan to our Univ ways an honor to ha' of the United States Dame community. President Reagan wi dedicataion of a s1 Notre Dame footbal Rockne. We are ple< Rockne will be reme a way. 
We feel morally ob less, to take this reflect on some of 1 forth by the Reagan We feel called to sp1 the humility approp1 ited vision. Conscien mit us to remain s growing number of 01 to live in poverty wt prosper at unprecet Neither can we be 1 to the largest peac buildup in the histor We feel the need to of a war-torn Centn particularly the Nit 
victims of brutal U.S nally, we make a p defense of our cons Iran-Contra affair b ten nor swept unde 
Yet our disillusio than this president Greater concern the ethos cultiva Reagan era. Societ creasingly "I-c obsessed with per terial acquisition a berty has come to limited accumulat Patriotism has bee itary might. As Ch cerned citizens ali happy with the dir has taken. 
In this spirit of r prepared four artie low: Tuesday: "th tween rich and po now wider than a since this data beg in 1947." W ednesda have spent $2 trillio works out to $743 $516,000 per minute. to the average Thursday: "The tration has consiste Central American with aggression ... a manuever with Ho sponsored destructi oil storage facilitie mining of three bors." Friday: "Ac 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ......... ........................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ............................ Marti Pankowlki Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen N-1 Editor ....................................Chris BednarJki Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark Newt Edlfof .........................•..................•. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Wamke v;.wpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark McLaughlin Sports Editor ...•.............................. Denni1 Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .............................. Micheel Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Saint Mr{s Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Founded November3, 1811 


oint 
P.O. Box Q 
risti n visit 
allowing article offive that will section to coin­Reagan's visit 
of Pax Christi­come Ronald ~rsity. It is al­e the President visit our Notre On March 9, II arrive for the amp to honor legend Knute sed that Coach mbered in such 
iged, neverthe­opportunity to he policies put administration. ak out with all iate to our lim­ce will not per­ilent about the ~r people forced ile the wealthy ~ented heights. ilent witnesses etime military ~ of our nation. voice the cries I America and ~araguan poor, aggression. Fi­ssionate plea in itution that the ~ neither forgot-
the rug. goes far deeper nd his policies. 1st be given to !d during the has become in­ttered" and mal gain, ma­l false pride. Li­signify the un­)n of wealth. reduced to mil­stians and con­
' we cannot be tion our nation 
ection we have 
1. Excerpts fol­ncome gap be-in the U.S. is ,ny other time being collected 
"Since 1981 we m defense. that .illion per day, a cost of $21,000 
5. household." eagan adminis­
itly responded to eace initiatives tassive military as, the CIA of Nicaraguan and the covert raguan har­rding to the bi­partisan Congressional Report on the hearings, 'The common in­gredients of the Iran and Contra policies were secrecy, deception and disdain for the law'." 
On the occasion of this presidential visit let us reflect in a humane and Christian way on the policies and values espoused by the current ad­ministration. 
Lou Mario Nanni 
Pax Christi-Notre Dame 
February 26, 1988 


Fidelity ad angers reader 
Dear Editor: 
I with many others, have been both stricken and roused to anger by the cleverly cruel Fidelity advertise­ment which appeared--inexplicably and, it would seem, unwarrantably­-in The Observer on Feb. 23 and 24. It draws a kind of obscene attention to something our Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community grieves over: the lonely and desolate death of a distin­guished and gentle person. The cold, scurrilous and preening attack which is mounted in this advertise­ment is no part of any Christian mes­sage. 
Jeanne C. Rodes English department Saint Mary's College February 26, 1988 


Opponents of ad want censorship 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the profusion of letters you have received regarding your inclusion of the Fidelity magazine advertise­ment on Feb. 23. I agree wholeheart­edly with the Observer's decision to print the advertisement, and I am deeply discouraged by the lack of ob­jectivity shown in the many View­point articles denigrating your deci­sion. It seems your opponents, including Mark D. Jordon, Eugene Vavrick, Brother Donal Leader, and Linda J. Thimons, lost sight of a little principle known as freedom of the press. 
I am not exonerating Fidelity mag­azine; it is likely that its motives are less than honorable. What I do take issue with is the implications your opponents make regarding the release of any details at all regard­
ing Father Rasmussen's activities. These letters claim that revelation of these details is tasteless. News is by nature often tasteless; it is often distressing and painful as well. Indeed, the truth often hurts. But in the end, to quote Plato, truth is the ultimate good. We should not exempt 
-
H£ HAO ANCA5Y SM//..£, ANO HEV EJRO(KjHT /AJITH HIM A R3IIJ 6001?, 5WIJN6 TH&Mt5. 
FAIR 
T/?A/)/3! l-EVU 
PLAYING F/El.[)51 

a person from moral criticism merely because he is a priest or be­cause he is, as Linda J. Thimons whines, "not even around to defend himself." It is no coincidence that many of these letters came from col­leagues of Father Rasmussen; this is because they are concerned chiefly with how this information will reflect on themselves. If the media would suppress this particu­lar story, what is stopping the media from suppressing the problems of the Bakkers, Gary Hart or Jimmy Swaggart? That would be censor­ship, and it is wrong, no matter how unpalatable such news might be to certain (aforementioned) people. The people have a right to the truth; if the people find the truth distaste­ful, they are free to ignore it. 
Patrick N. Cunningham Pangborn Hall February 26, 1988 

Treasurer post needs filling 
Dear Ediwr: 

Each year we see and hear about the many activities and services of­fered by the student-run campus or­ganizations, such as Student Govern­ment and the Student Union Board. However, most of us don't realize that our $55.00 Student Activity Fee provides the necessary funding for these various groups and the activi­ties that they sponsor. Approxi­mately $390,000 is collected from the Student Activity Fee and the Student Body Treasurer is responsible for budgeting this sum to the organiza­tions which rely on it for their opera­tions. These include: Student Government, the Hall President's Council, the Class Governments, the Judicial Council, SUB, the Off­campus Counci, WVFI improve­ments, and almost 120 other clubs and organizations on campus. Once the budgeting process has been com­pleted in April of each year, the Stu­dent Body Treasurer is responsible for maintaining an accurate record of all finances and for disbursing the allocated funds to the organizations mentioned above. 
The Student Body Treasurer also has the opportunity to serve as a member of the Student Senate and as chairman of the Student Senate Budget and Finance Committee. This means that the Treasurer en­sures that the fiscal policies estab­lished by the Student Senate are fol­lowed and that the clubs and ship in the Steering Committee also provides the Treasurer with the chance to help plan proposed SUB events as well as the chance to have a behind the scenes look at these events. 
If you are interested in sharing some of this responsibility, then Stu­dent Government needs your help. Each year, during March, inter­views are held to select someone to serve as the Assistant Student Body Treasurer. Applicants must be sop­homores in the College of Business Administration. During the chosen applicant's Junior year, he or she will serve as the Assistant Treasurer in a learning capacity to become familiar with the financial opera­tions of Student Government. Then, on April1, 1989, he or she will assume the responsibilities of Student Body Treasurer. Thus, the person chosen will have the opportunity to serve for two years and with two different Stu­dent Governent administrations. 
As the current Student Body As­sistant Treasurer. I would encour­age those eligible and interested to apply for this position. I have found it to be a challenging and rewarding experience which will definitely aid me in my future endeavors. I have also gained a better understanding of business, leadership and people in general through my position and am anxious to pass this enhanced under­standing onto my assistant next year. Applications for the Student Body Assistant Treasurer may be obtained in the Treasurer's Office on the second floor of LaFortune be­tween 12:30 and 4:30p.m. The appli­cations must be returned by Wednes­day, March 2 at 4 p.m. Please do not hesitate to call the Treasurer's office at 239-7417 or to stop by the office and pursue this interest. The position of Student Body Assistant Treasurer provides the learning experience of a lifetime, one which could never be forgotten. 
Michelle Zinsee Student Body Assistant Treasurer February 28, 1988 

Alumni Club thanked 
Dear Editor: 
I'd like to take a second here to publicly thank Alumni-Senior Club and its director, Larry Briggs, for their very thoughtful and much ap­preciated donation of $1000 to the Mi­chael Cogswell Memorial Fund. This money will help make the fund a con­

Paper should use discretion 
Dear Editor: 
We write this letter in reference to an ad that appeared in the Feb. 23 and 24 issues of The Observer. The ad in question solicited subscriptions to Fidelity magazine. Fidelity mag­azine is a publication that has vi­ciously exploited members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame com­munities in the past. In particular, we address the article published last year which slandered Saint Mary's students and faculty by violating the personal rights of a former student. 
We are appalled at The Observer's decision to run this ad. The graphics of the ad itself are offensive. Why does the newspaper "serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's" choose to do business with such an un­Christian organization? Has money replaced the Catholic values instilled in us by these two respected institu­tions? 
Was the editorial board of The Ob­server aware that E. Michael Jones, the editor of Fidelity magazine, has been banned from Saint Mary's? In the future, we ask only that The Ob­server exercise discretion and con­
sider  the  implications  of  such  a  
blatantly  disrespectful  advertise­ 
ment.  

Jill Winterhalter Heather Miller Frannie Thompson Eileen Hetterich 
Elizabeth Sexton Smith Hashagen Julie McNish Saint Mary's College February 25, 1988 

Observer should show decency 
Dear Editor: 
We note with sadness the adver­tisement in Feb. 23's Observer for Fidelity Magazine. In that ad, the circumstances surrounding the un­timely death of one of our colleagues are used to generate subscriptions to the publication in question. 
Nothing that Fidelity does to thump its own tub would surprise us, but the Observer need not sacrifice its own sense of decency by accept­ing advertisements of such manifest insensitivity . 
We urge you in the future to dem­onstrate greater respect for both the living and the dead than you did in 
organizations adhere to the spending tinuing memorial that will also sup­printing the morbid titillation of the guidelines approved by the Senate. port the recovery of students with Fidelity advertisement The Student Body Treasurer is also alcohol and other drug problems. John Robinson a member of the Steering Committee David Dannison Assistant Professor which determines the policy of SUB. Director Law and Philosophy Members of the Steering committee Office of Alcohol and Drug Teresa Godwin Phelps provide input for and approval of the Educa·tion Assistant Professor of Law events sponsored by SUB. Member-February 26, 1988 February 25, 1988 
BUT THE TOIAJN5f0/..K 500NNO­IT TOOK A CH/1.1), OF COURSE, TICEP TH&RE IAJA5 500EiTHIN6 
70 POINT aJT TH8 013VIOU5. OfJTJABOUT THE OllT5/lJER... 
HUSH, 
CAN'T PUT MY 80Y... 
FINGER ON IT... 
\ 


Quote of the Day 
"One man can make a difference. Every man should try." 
John F. Kennedy 
Monday, February 29, 1988 · 
The Observer
a e 10 

cause they didn't want David



Slumps 
to go wild," said Fredrick, who shot 9 for 15 from the field. "We 

Sports Briefs 

continued from page 16 just missed too many chances 
NVA floor hockey will have a captain's meeting today at 4 p.m. in the football auditorium. Each team must send a represen­tative and all unpaid entry fees must be paid at this time. -The Observer 
Harvey Kuenn, a former batting champ and the man who managed the Milwaukee Brewers to their only World Series appearance in 1982, died Sunday at his home in Peoria, ~riz. The cause of death is not known. -Assoctated 
Press 
In theNBASunday, Detroit bumped Boston 106-101, Denver dumped New York 109-100 and Houston stopped San Antonio 108-95. 
Associated Press 
In NHL action Sunday, New Jersey topped Minnesota 8-6, Chicago beat Pittsburgh 7-5, Buf­falo whipped Winnipeg 5-3, and Calgary edged Edmonton 3-2. -Associated Press 
Women'sBookstoreBasketballsign-ups will be held March 3 from 7-9 p.m. in Room 108 LaFortune. There is a $5 entry fee. For more information, call Barbara at 284-5073. -The Ob­server 
O.C. Hockey will have a game tonight at 
10:30 p.m. -The Observer 

SMC softball will have a meeting today at 4 p.m. Come to Angela and be prepared to work out. -The Observer 
Crew members can pick up more tickets in room 202 Sorin. -The Observer 
SMC intramural volleyball forms are now available at AAF front desk. Forms are due March 2. -The Observer 
Gracevision, Notre Dame's only hall tele­
vision system, will be filming this year's Bengal 
Bouts. Videotape orders can be placed at the 
door of Stepan Center each night of the fights. 
Tapes of each weight class, or of the champi­
onship night are available for $29.95 each. -The 
Observer 

Candidates for cheerleading and leprechaunspotswhomissedtheinformational meeting must attend a mandatory instuctional clinic tonight at 7 p.m. in the basketball arena of the JACC. Please bring proof of insurance and workout clothes. For more information, call John Romney (272-8718) or Margo Ball (4068). -The Observer 
Late registration for men's Bookstore Basketball will be held Wednesday from 3-5 
p.m. in the SUB offices in LaFortune. Any ques­tions, call Mike at 1962. -The Observer 
"I'm just in a slump right now and its something I'm really going to have to concen­trate on and spend some time on," he said. "I usually get into a slump once a year and right now its something I have to get myself out of." 
Connor, who missed three jumpers before canning a 3­pointer with 2:21 left said the Commodores' zone did not surprise the Irish, they just couldn't get the production they anticipated against it. 
"We knew what their zone would be like," said Connor. "They played it exactly the way we prepared for it. We just didn't execute what we worked on in practice and we had little breakdowns which really cost us at some critical points." 
Joe Fredrick continued his strong offensive production with 19 points, and he represented the only outside threat for the Irish all day. David Rivers added 18 points, but he also had problems from the outside and finished with 7­for-18 shooting. 
''They kept a man up top be-and we have to capitalize on those kinds of opportunities." 
The outside problems be­came an inside problem as the game wore on. The Irish, looking to go inside to Gary Voce, especially when Will Perdue got into foul trouble, found it tougher to get inside after the outside game was noticeably absent. 
Voce finished with 14 points, but midway through the second half the Irish were struggling to stay in the game and when the perimeter players tried to get the ball in to Voce, a sag­ging Vanderbilt defense came up with three key steals that bumped the Vanderbilt lead up to 14 points. 
Notre Dame managed to shoot just 44 percent in the second half and gave up 10 second-half turnovers. 
"We just couldn't get another player besides Fredrick wired to shoot from outside and that would have opened things up inside for us," noted Phelps. "We were just looking for somebody to turn on the shoot­ing and that obviously didn't happen for us." 
The a.--Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent eent., -=c:epta claaalfied ~sing from 10 a.m until 4 p.m, Monday ttvough F~. Tile a.--Saint u.ty's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, -=c:epta claslfleda from 12:30 p.m. untl13 p.m., Monday through F~. Oeedllne for next-day claslfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claslfleda must
Classifieds be pqpald, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ~perday. 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
Terrie's Typing 287-1283 WORD PROCESSING, LASER PRINTER, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, CAN SAVE ON DISK, FOOTNOTES, RESUMES. 
Get ready for Spring Break by selling unwanted class books for $$$ at Pan­dora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open 7 days! week 10·5:30. 
WORDPROCESSINGITYPING. CALL PAT 234-5528. 
Need Ride to NEW YORK CITY of the near vicinity for SPRING BREAK!II Can leave any day. Will share expenses. Please call Missy 271·0868 

I LOST/FOUND I 
One gold & pearl earring either in B·P, Grace, or somewhere in between. REWARD!!! Call x1330. THANKS!!! 
LOST: pair of eyeglasses--brown case with ini~als DAL on back If found call Dave at 2506 
LOST IN OSHAG: pair ol red Kombi ski gloves Mom will kill me if I don't find them. Save a life, call Tom at 4010 
LOST WOMEN'S GOLD WRISTWATCH WITH SQUARE FACE DURING JPW please calf x3872 or x1581 H found 
ATTN: PREPROFESSIONAL & BIOL­OGY MAJORS. FOUND A BRACELET JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND FREIMANN & LIFE SCIENCE CENTER. CONTACT ROBERT SPENCE OR KAY STEWART AT 239-61188 OR 5393'TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST: ONE MORRISSEY MANOR BOTTLE-OPENER KEYCHAIN WITH THREE KEYS ATTACHED. IF FOUND CALL BILL AT 3549 REWARD UPON RECEIPT. 

FOR RENT 
4 BEDROOM HSE NICE NEIGHBOR­HOOD.475 MO. CALL 2n­9097.0THERS AVAILABLE 
RENT HOUSE DURING SUMMER CALL 232-3616 
RENT CHGO APT! Sunny, lg 1 br In vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd firs, fan, binds, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clats, bamtatorage,lndry. 112 blk to L.k Shore Dr bus, 2 blk to el train, Wrtgley. $850. Avail beg Apr 1. 312-871-3397 (NO '80) 

WANTED 
l 
Need Riders & drivers to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. Sponsored by the I.U. Club of Notre Dame. 
OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Asla. All fields. $900-2000 mo. Slghtae&­lng.Frae Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
CAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT­ING APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT· lNG INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM· PLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS OF CHICAGO. IF INTERESTED SET UP AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT: CAMPUS PAINTERS 2901 CENTRAL STREET EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 312-251-0151 
Wanted: 4 fun people Anyone looking for a ride to anywhere in Florida during Spring Break call Jim £4085 
Things We Won't Miss X: U of Miami 
Atlanta Glad you liked the autographed picture Hollywood Star 
GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR SPRING BREAK??? Please call me. I'd like a ride any day you're going. Shared expenses. Call Missy 271·0868 or leave message wtoommate. 
Ride needed to Ft. Laud. Will pay $$$ 
Call Paul x3522 
H'AvE·t.:·F'RiENo·N·eeoiN.ii·A·R'ii:ie··;:o 
N.D. FROM PITTSBURGH APRIL 15 WEEKEND? FRIEND DRIVING UP FOR SR. FORMAL AND WOULD LIKE RIDERS. CALL DREW 3666. 


FOR SALE 
HELP! CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH 
21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI­ABLE. CALL JON AT X3125 OR X3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER. 
PLANE TICKET, NEW ORLEANS TO CHICAGO. SAT. MAR. 19, $60, CALL DAVID, 232·8327. 
ROUNDTRIP OHARE-LOS ANGELES MAR 12-20 $165. PRICE NEGOTIABLE 271-9142 

for sale ..... 1979 White Ford Mustang $1600.00 Going overseas, need to sell. Call Trisha at 284-5069 
UNITED LIMO TICKETS -2 round trips to Chlcl.go -$30 each. Call 233-3713 by March 3. 

TICKETS 
I NEED ANY MARQUETTE TIX-CARL £2187 
Wanted MARQUETTE TICKETS Frank x1244 
NEED A ROUND TRIP TICKET TO ANYWHERE IN U.S. FOR SPRING BREAK? NEED TO SELL. ONLY $125.00 IF INTERESTED, CALL MARIE 284-4420 
FLIGHT TO CHARLESTON SC FOR BREAK.CALL 1678 
For sale: One round-trip Chicago­Houston ticket over break AND one round-trip ticket anywhere in U.S. Mike 27Hl933 
HELPIIII NEED MARQUETTE TKTS., 2 GA'S CALL 233·9660 ASK FOR BOB, OR LEAVE MESSAGE 
NEED FLIGHT TOFROM DC FOR BREAK? CALL 3705 

PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COKE SWEETENS APARTHEID (Nutrasweet or No) APARTHEID KILLS SUPPORT THE BOYCOTT 
COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF· TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. 
AAJAX 
NEW YORK-Spring Break. Ride needed. Call Missy 271·0868.""...... 
GONG SHOW 
Auditions 

GONG SHOW Auditions for next month's Sophomore Class Gong Show to benefit St. Hedwig's Outreach Program will be held Mon Feb. 29 and Wed Mar. 2 from 8:30 -11 p.m. in Crowley Hall. Applicants should call the Class Office at 239-5225 and leave their name and number. 
GONG SHOW 
Auditions 

GONG SHOW 
If you sing, the place to be at 3:00 today is Mark Taylor's conducting class -1st floor Crowley. Please · he's desparate!. 
Tues. and Wed at CHIP's the return of MONARCH drink specials both nights 
Q:Who was that man dancing in Senior Bar Wednesday? A:That was none other that James "ELBO" Coleman--an SYR dreamboat. Too bad he can't dance like that sober. D 
cole: a "severe pleasure"?? That's a new one. 
MATT MURPHY MATT MURPHY I saw your picture in the paper on Fri. Do you really think you'll get a date? Love, Mary ·your X 
OK -SO I DON'T HAVE A QUI'EN. I STILL HAVE MY CASTLE. GUESS WHAT? 
Four is tor the times I've tried to end this crazy affair. Three is for the times you've left me. 
Two is tor the roses I've given you. One is lor the time I accidentally told you I loved you. Zero is how I feel when you are gone. 
Pink pig: Bin long, bewmul smile, res· piratory difficulties, incision to abdominal area, aversion to bacon, answers to Wil­bur. Last seen 2115 in Galvin. Pignapped. All ransom demands w/11 be met. Call Barb or Donna. £2619 
CLUB DANKISI!I CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII 

They're baaaaaack! 
What's Important It's another guaranteed fun day Monday 
Coke 

Coke Coke 
Aren't you excited?! BP Spirit Week is HERE IIIII It may be chilly out there, but we're heatin' it uplll BP SPIRIT BP SPIRIT BP SPIRIT BP SPIRITIIIII 
Dan, Mike, Spaz & Tim, Thanks for the study break Thursday night! I love you guys to pieces. 
A 

Thanks everybody We're GLAD you dropped by 
Mimi and Nancy P.• Why don't I see you gorgeous twins anymore? 
Marl< 
NEED!! A RIDE TO CLEVELAND, AKRON­CANTON VICINITY OR EXIT 11 ON THE OHIO TURNPIKE FOR SPRING BREAK!! CAN LEAVE AFTER 2:30 ON THURS. MARCH 1 0. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL THERESA AT X4238. 
IRISH MUSIC AT MR. CHRISTIAN'S Dl· LEMMA ON PRAIRIE AVE WITH JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS 8-12 EVERY FRI AND SAT 
PLEASE TAKE ME TO NYC FOR SPREAK.2685 DY 
THE EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME Ill!!! Deadline for applications to the Russia­Scandinavia summer study program is March 15. Enjoy Russia and Scandinavia while earning three credits II For more information and an application, call David at x1155. 
SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMAL!!! GET A DATE NOW GET A DATE NOW GET A DATE NOW SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII 
SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMAL!!! Q:WHAT IS A BID? A:A TICKET FOR TWO. Q:WHY IS A TICKET CALLED A BID? A:WE JUST DON'T KNOW WHY! SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMAL!!! 
SENIOR FORMALI!I SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII BID SALES MARCH 1,2&3 GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOW!!! GET A DATE NOW!!! 
To IRISH EYES -you'll know it's me playing LEAP FROG TODAY by my smile, my plaid pants, and matching bow tiel!! -A YOUNG IRISH LAD 
D.C. ClUB BUS SIGNUPS Departure: Frt. March 11 at 9 P.M. !rom library circle Arrival: March 12 at approxi­mately 9 A.M. In D.C. Return: Set. March 19 at 9 P.M. from Greyhound Statton In D.C. Arrtve at NO: Sun. March 20 at approx. 9 A.M. Coat: $75 Round1rlp ·-siGNUPs••• Mon. Feb 29 at 7 PM In Lafortune ?'s call Ed at 1474 
TO THE GUY IN THE GREEN SWEATER IN LAFORTUNE TUESDAY NIGHT. I THOUGHT YOU WERE COOL UNTIL I SAW YOU DRINKING THAT COKE. GET A CLUE, JUST SAY NO!!! 
The Groovy Travelers need bass, drums. and vocals. No skill necessary. Discover the beautiful side of violent dementia. No metal. Prime in­fluences: Neil Diamond, Throbbing Gristle. Call Rick at 1303. 
ST. PAT'S DAY A WEE BIT EARLY!!! ST. PAT'S DAY A WEE BIT EARLY!!! WHERE IS THE LEPRECHAUN??? HELP RECOVER HIM!! REWARD OF­FERED. LOOK FOR CLUES STARTING NEXT TUESDAY IN THE OBSERVER!!! 
Catch The Wave: Coke 
SMC ADDICTION WEEK FEB 29 ·MAR. 4 Lectures on nutrition, alcohol, relation­ships, and smoking. Come and listen! 
Laura, 

You're a line girl What a good wife you would be 
Would you marry me? 
-Mark 

"Business & Society In Japan" Optional Credl\>1'1nenclal Aid International Internship Programs 406 Colman Bldg., 811 1st Ave. Seattle, WA 98104 (206) 623-5539 
SMC ADDICTION WEEK FEB. 29 ·MAR. 4 SMC ADDICTION WEEK 
LARISSA, THIS ONE'S FOR YOU! JW 
PLACE YOUR BETS PICK THE STATE Q'S PLANE CRASHES IN FAVORITES­ILLINOI&f'IEVADA AT 3:2 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
Peaches, 

Happy Anniversary! Thanks for 6 AWESOME months! Looking forward to many, many more! 
Love ya, Aldawd 

BALLROOM DANCE BALLROOM DANCE Meets tonight in Stepan in­termed. at 7:00, begin. 8:00 Come join us! 
The Screaming Midgets From Hell The Screaming Mldgats From Hell The Screaming Midgets From Hell In the Immortal words of Heather O'Rourke: They'rrrrre Baeaaack!l!!ll!l 
................................................................ 
To Our Friends (both of them): Info regarding our New Vorl< subsidiary will be available at 11 :00 ET tonight. The guys in 245 think its free beer 
They could be right 233 INC. 
Hey Chris Lucey WE LOVE YOU!! 
Ally and JA (even if my dog does answer to your name!!) 
JOE McKENNA 
turned 26 yesterday. Rejoice oh J.M. fan club members. He's still young enough to chase!! 
Everybody wish 
Mary Kate Hardy 
a happy 22nd birthday! 

He's a point guard. He's 5 foot 8 and a half. He's from Blooooomfield Hills, Miiiiic­higan. He's your favorite and mine. 
David Cowden 
Happy Birthday Dave! 
This is the end. 
-----· 

~---­
Monday, February 29, 1988 · 
The Observer page 11 
58th Bengal Bouts quarterfinal results 
Afternoon session Chuck Moser d. Mike McCarthy, split 

Sundey'o Reeulte Middleweight Bentemwelght ETJc Bender d. Tony Kuzola Vance Becklund d. Miguel Ladao, TKO (:52 of TKO ( 1 :07 of 2nd) ' 1sl) · Joe Dieterle d. Brian Stokes. unan. Joe Nelson d. Paul Ackerman, split Super Mwt.
Featherweight Dan Gamache d. George Malinski, TKO (:40 ofTim O'Laughhn d. George O'Sullivan, unan. 

3rd)

Launn Dodd d. Jim Oatley, unan. 
Marty Falkenberg d. Brian Gallagher, unani·

Jr. Lightweight Mike Noone d. Chrts Balcezak, (:46 of 2nd) mous Lt. HeavyweightMtke Joyce d Paul Burke, unan. 
Mike Kelly d. Doug Pritchett, unanimousT1m Harttgan d. Mtke Rigney, TKO (:16 of 2nd) CrulaerwelghtMtke Meyer d. Greg Soha, split Bill Angrlck d. Joel Williams, TKO (1 :01 of 2nd) 

Brad Benson d. Kurt Hell, unanimousJr Welterweight HeavyweightKevin Duggan d. Ken Matlusky, TKO (:55 of Pat Gritlin d. Kevin Mechen. unanimous3rd) 

Norm Conley d Pat Fravel, split Evening session 
Welterweight Bantamweight Sean O'Bnen d. Mtke Cassetta. TKO (1:15 of Mike Polcari d. Mike Hooker, TKO (:54 of 2nd) 2nd) John Manfredy d. Zack Hudgins, unanimous John Baattan d. Matt Novak, unammous Featherweight 
Super Wwt. Eric Feder d. Mike Zacchea, unanimous Mike Keegan d. Kurt Lauber, split Chris Boroski d. Nick Capece, split Syed Hatder d. Steve Deutsh, split Jr. Lightweight 
Jr Middleweight Matt Morrow d. Rob Graham, split Andy Baker d. Jtm Mason, spilt Ttoy Duncan d. Sean McKessey, unanimous 
Lightweight Dave Elder d. Ed Raeke, split Mike Canavan d. Greg Pierce, unanimous 
Jr Welterweight Tim Reardon d. Jay DeGroft 
Welterweight Matt Potts d. Steve Perenlch, TKO (:58 of 3rd) Doug Biolchini d. Dave Kelly, unanimous 
Super Wwt. 

•Paul Gluckow d. John Villa, unanimous Dave Crouse d. Kurt Regis, split 
Jr Middleweight Ken Scheve d. Lee Whitman. unanimous Paul Kohl d. Paul Romano, unanimous 
Middleweight Pat O'Neill d. Ray Cihak, unanimous Jim Riedl d. John Hilal, unanimous 
Super Mwt. Tom Stahl d. Dave Lawlor, unanimous Chris Murphy d. Gerry Graf, split 
Lt. Heavyweight Chris Balint d. Ed Quinn, split John Schmidt d. George Melnyk, split 
Crulaerwelght Kevin Kramer d. Chris Kiley, split Brendan Max d. Andy Fenoglio, unanimous 
Jr Welterweight Dave Cane d. Matt Flanagan, TKO (:24 of 3rd) 
Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
''Mom says the house just isdt the same without me, even though its 

alot cleaner.'' 

is br away, doesn't mean you can't be close. Ybu can still share the love and bughter on AT&T Long Distance Service. 
It costs less than you think to hear that she likes the peace and quiet, hut she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a call. )bu can clean your room later. Reach out and touch someone~ 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 




Ben gals 
continued from page 16 
since the summer. I was very pleased last year, and I felt I did as well as I could at that point, but I feel that I'm a bet­ter boxer now." 
If Noone wins a title this year and in 1989, he will be just the fifth person in history to win four titles. 
Tim 'TH' Hartigan, the other defending title-holder, also won a second-round TKO, slipping past Mike 'Slimey' Rigney in the lightweight division. 
"He didn't come after me, and the coach said to just come after him," said Hartigan. "The first round I was throwing wild rights, and the coach told me to just straighten it out, and I threw straight rights." 
David 'Sugar' Cane and Vance 'Pretty Boy' Buckland, both of whom lost in the finals last year, also had imposing quarterfinal performances. 
Cane, a South Bend native, scored a third-round TKO over Matt Flanigan in the junior welterweight division. 
Buckland managed to get the quickest TKO of the day, stop­ping Miguel 'Pinoy' Ladao in the first round of the mid­dleweight confrontation. 
Just because your Mom 
Troy 'Slam' Duncan also had an outstanding outing. In the "battle of the Apple," the res­ident of New York City won a unanimous decision over Sean 'Long Island Lasher' McKessv 
in a junior lightweight fight. 
One of the more exciting matchups of the quarterfinal round c:ame late in the evening, as Chns 'Boom Boom' Balint won a split decision over Ed Quinn in the light heavyweight division. The two fighters ex­changed a flurry of punches in the first round, but Balint came through with two knockdowns in the final two rounds. 
"I was a lot more protective in the last two rounds because I'd never gotten hit hard in the face before (the first round) " said Balint, another South Bend native. "I realized the only way I'd hurt him was with the big punches, and that's how I knocked him down twice. I realized it wasn't going to be the jabs that would get him so I kind of put two and two' to­gether." 
Balint's win came on the heels of another thrilling match, as Chris 'Murph' Murphy won a controversial split decision over Gerry 'G­Man' Graf in the super mid­dleweight division. 
Belles drop finale 56-25 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball 
team lost its final game of the 
season to Aquinas 56-25. The 
Belles finished the season with 
an 11-11 record. 
Aquinas came into the con­
test ranked among the top 
twenty teams in the NAIA. The 
Saint Mary's defense kept the 
competition's scoring to a min­
imum, but the Belle's poor 
shooting lead to their defeat. 
They shot only 25 percent in the 
first half. 
"We played excellent 
defense," said Head Coach 
Marvin Wood. "We just 
couldn't get our offense going 
or get the ball to drop." 
Julie Radke led the scoring 
for Saint Mary's with only six 
points, shooting 2-for-13 from 
the field. 
Despite their poor shooting 
percentage, the Belles had one 
of their best rebounding efforts 
of their season. As a team they 
pulled down 37 boards. Individ­
ually, the top rebounders were 
Linda Garrett with seven, 
Donna Wolf with six and Jenny 
Hart with five. 
"We did an excellent job 
rebounding, but the entire 
group had difficulty," Wood 
said. "It was just a poor shoot­
ing night." 
The Belles had a con­
siderably stronger schedule 
this year. They added four new 
teams to the list of competition 
Loyola, Michigan, ITT and 
Aquinas. Saint Mary's lost all 
four of these games which af­
fected their record at the 
season's end. 
"We didn't make the 
playoffs," Wood said. "We 
were in line for them until the 
last two games. But ail-in-all, 
we had a good year." 

Correction 
A. recent column identified Dtck Modzelewski as the Green Bay Packer assistant coach who was charged with shoplifting. It should have been Jerry Wampfler. 

r-
Monday, February 29, 1988
page 12 The Observer 
Alex Wilson field lives up to high expectations 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
As promised by Irish head co­ach Joe Piane, this past weekend's Alex Wilson Invita­tional proved to be fast--very fast. 
With schools such as Pit­tsburgh, Georgetown and Eas­tern Michigan sending only their top athletes in hopes of qualifying them for the NCAA Championships, one could only expect some fast times to be posted, and they were. The tough competition helped to push the Irish to several out­standing performances. 
Sophomore Pat Kearns gQi the frish on the move early by 

Vandy 
continued from page 16 
offensive rhythm in shooting against their zones which would have opened more things inside." 
But while the Irish were looking for offensive produc­tion, Vanderbilt got it from an unexpected source. Frank Kor­net, who has been bothered with a knee problem, scored a team-high 17 points in 36 minutes of play, his longest stint of the season. Derrick Wil­cox came off the bench to score a career-high 14 points, and Barry Goheen added 16 points, including the Commodores' lone three-point bucket of the game. 
"Everyone talks about the three-point plays," Vanderbilt head coach C.M. Newton said. "Our whole philosophy about this is predicated on taking what the defense gives us. We don't try to say we're going to try X number of three-point plays. Notre Dame opted not to give us the three-point oppor­tunity. When you do that, that exposes you to post feeds with 
cuts  to  the  basket  which  
Goheen  got  some  layups  
from."  

Wildcats top Orangemen 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -Fresh­man Eric Manuel scored seven of Kentucky's final eight points as the 12th-ranked Wildcats overcame a nine-point second­half deficit to beat No. 10 Syracuse 62-58 Sunday. 
Playing without injured star Rex Champman, Kentucky ran its record to 20-5 by taking ad­vantage of poor foul shooting by the Orangemen, who dominated the start of the second half, moving from a 32­30 advantage at intermission to a 49-40 lead with 12:19 left. 
Ga. Tech 91, Duke 87 
ATLANTA-Tom Hammonds scored 29 points and Brian Oliver hit three crucial free throws in the final 45 seconds as No. 20 Georgia Tech beat fifth-ranked Duke 91-87 in an Atlantic Coast Conference game Sunday. 
It was the seventh victory in a row for the Jackets, 21-6 over­all and 8-4 in the conference, and the second loss in succes­sion for the Blue Devils, 20-5 and 8-4. 
winning the 5000 meters going away. Kearns started out in front of the pack and never fell past fourth place. He regained the lead with four laps remain­ing and crossed the finish line nearly four seconds ahead of the second-place finisher. Kearns finished in 14:41:30. 
Sophomore Glenn Watson turned in an outstanding time of 7: 39 to tie for first in the 55­meter high hurdles. Also having a good day for the Irish were freshmen John Cole and Jeff Smith. Cole, a high jumper, placed first with a jump of six feet, eight inches, while Smith captured first in the long jump 
with a leap of 23 feet, i1 one­
half inches. 
Perdue picked up his fourth personal with 15: 51 left to play in the game. The Irish had trailed by eight at halftime, but Gary Voce pulled them to 47-42 with the two resulting free throws. But the 'Dores went on a 15-6 tear with their big man on the bench and upped their lead to 62-48 with 6:10 to play. The Irish called two timeouts in the stretch but couldn't stem the tide. Goheen hit twice during the stretch. The Irish were their own enemy commit­ting two turnovers at the end of the Commodore streak. 
David Rivers personally put on a 5-0 scoring spurt, hitting a jumper at the left baseline and three free throws to cut the margin to 62-53 with 4: 41 to 
play. That's when Perdue reen­tered the game. He quickly made his presence known, feeding Goheen on the first of two consecutive backdoor cuts. 
The Irish still had a chance 
to pu_H it out at the end, as Van­
derbilt, a good free-throw 
shooting team, began coming 
up short. Notre Dame closed to 
74-68 with 30 seconds left, but 
couldn't hit the shots to put 
them over the top. 
"We really played well tonight, excpet for knocking down free throws late in the game," Newton said of his now 18-7 club. "We had a lot of 

FORMALWEAR FITTING 
AND SAVINGS EXTRAVAGANZA! 
Louie's Tux Shop and the formal committee invite you to attend a fonnalwear fitting party, on campus, for the upcoming Notre Dame and Saint Mary's formal. You'll be professionally fitted for your tux... plus you'll receive a special discount on our selection of formalwear, including: 
Basic Black Tux...........$.39.95* Designer Black Tux....•.$49.95* Basic Tails••••••.•.••••••••.• $49.95* Designer Tails..••••••.....$54.95* 
Come to the Louie's Tux Shop fonnalwear fitting party on campus. You'll find the style you want to make you look your best... and special savings on your tuxedo rental. 
WHEN: March 1, 2, .3 (Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday) WHERE: Lafortune Center (March 1 l!t 2, first floor); LeMans Hall (March .3, Lobby) TIME: 6·9 p.m. 

"We Make You The Event!" 
'Does not ln<:lude damage waiver fee, and shoes. 
In the 1500-meter run sopho­more Mike Rogan finished fourth with a time of 3:47:64. Rogan's finish was impressive considering the top three finis­hers were non-varsity athletes running for various track clubs. 
Freshman Richard Culp placed fourth and sophomore Yan Searcy placed fifth in the 400 IY'eters, with times of 48.62 and 48.74. Freshman sprinter Robert Harris took first in the 200 meters with a time of 21.92 while classmate James Suttle finished second at 22.83. 
The meet was highlighted by two races in particular -the 800-meter run and the mile. In the 800-meter run Mark Daley 
people contributing, and it's a big win for us." 
Rivers had 18 and Voce 14 points and 11 rebounds for Notre Dame, now 17-8. The Irish have the week off before facing Marquette at home Sat­urday afternoon. 
Saturday's Results Vanderbilt 75, Notre Dame 66 Vanderbilt (75) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Kornet  36  7·11  3-4  4  2  17  
Reid  24  4-4  1-3  2  0  9  
Perdue  23  5-11  0-1  7  5  10  
Booker  29  0-2  1-5  2  2  1  
Goheen  30  7-11  1-3  4  0  16  
Wilcox  18  3-3  8-8  0  1  14  
Draud  12  2-5  0-0  3  2  4  
Grant  17  2-3  0-0  1  0  4  
Mayes  11  0-1  0-0  0  1  0  
200 30-51  14-24  23  13  75  
FG  Pet.  -.588.  FT  Pet.  - .583.  Team  

rebounds -2. Turnovers -8. Assists -18 (Booker 5). 3-point FG-Goheen 1-1, Draud 0-1. Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame (66) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Stevenson 19 0-4 0-0 1 0 0 Voce 36 5-8 4-5 11 2 Robinson 29 4-4 0-0958 Fredrick 34 9-15 0-0 5 4 Rivers 40 7-18 4-6 1 3 Singleton 8 0-1 0-0 0 5 Connor 11 1-4 o-o 2 3 T. Jackson 13 0-0 0-0 0 1 Ellery 15 0-1 4-4 2 4 J. Jackson 3 0-0 0-0020 Paddock 10-0 0-0000 200 26-55 12-15 31 29 
FG Pet. -.473. FT Pet. -.800. rebounds -2. Turnovers -15. Assists ­(Rivers 8). 3-point FG-Fredrick 1-2, Rivers 0-1, Connor 1-1. Technicals-none. 
Halftime -Vanderbilt 38, Notre Dame 30. Officials -Donald Shea, Don Ferguson, David Jones (all SEC). A -11,418 (c). 


Student Business Board 
Applications for 




Manager Positions 
in 
Adworks 

The Cellar 

& Irish Gardens are now available 
Pick up applications in the Student Government Offices 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Deadline: Friday, March 4 at 5:00pm 
ADWOI><! 


STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 


I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
l--------------~!.,~u~s-~
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 


; Reg. $8 Ma~~[~~ :
r-------------------1

:$5OFF ANY PERM : 
MasterCuts
I famiy haircutters I 
~------------------~ 





MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
of Eastern Michigan edged David Moore of Pittsburgh in an incredibly blistering pace. Daley finished in 1:49:43 while Moore had a time of 1:49:63. Mark Sullivan of Villanova and Mike Jasper of Georgetown also qualified for the NCAA's in a race that nearly qualified seven runners for the cham­pionships. 
The mile run featured Olym­pic trials qualifier John Traut­man of Georgetown. Trautman posted an outstanding time of 
4:00:66. As good a time as it was, Trautman finished less than two seconds ahead of Dave Ryan of William & Mary, who ran 4:02:19. Both runners qualified for the NCAA's. Soph­omore Mike O'Conn;..'" finished fourth for the Irish, running an impressive 4:09: 12. 
Monday, February 29, 1988 · 
The Observer page 13 
Irish netters sweep Bowling Green, Cincy 
By GEORGE TRAVERS 'Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­
nis team improved its record 
to 8-4 this weekend with im­
pressive wins over Cincinnati 
and Bowling Green. The Irish 
crushed both schools 9-0 in Sat­
urday's matches. 
After a week of exhausting matches in which Notre Dame was labeled definite under­dogs, it was nice for the Irish 
·lntarested In helping to manage and account for 
$3PO ~00??? 
If you are... 
II you are a SOPHMORE BUSINESS MAJOR 
who enjoys working with 
to be favorites again. In the first match against the Univer­sity of Cincinnati, coach Bob Bayliss opted to rest his num­ber one singles player, Brian Kalbas, saving him for Bowling Green. Freshman Ryan Wenger moved to the top spot and showed poise as he won in three sets over Cliff Biester. 
In other action against Cin­cinnati, captain Dan Walsh protected his perfect singles record as he shut out Jeff Moor-
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU as the STUDENT BODY 
ASSISTANT TREASURER!!! 
The St~dent Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body ~asurer in 
d•sbursmg fund~ for: Student Government SUB Halle clubs end organizations 

TI1is position will prepare you Applications are available in the for becoming the Student Body Treasurer's office,2nd noor of Treasurer t!JC following year. La Fortune, 12:30. 4:30p.m. 
applications are due on Wed. March 2 by 4:00p.m. ANY QUESTIONS? 
Contact Michelle Zinser at 239-7417 



man 6-0, 6-0. Junior Dave Reiter, who is coming off a layoff because of a foot injury, defeated Clay Lewis 6-2, 6-2. 
Paul Daggs crushed Cincin­nati's Joe Brown in number­four singles 6-1, 6-2. Irish fresh­men David Kuhlman and Paul Odland both won in straight sets over Steve Tipp and Scott Fredette respectively. 
In doubles action the Irish took all three matches from the Bearcats. Coach Bayliss let some of the reserves gain some experience. Sean O'Brien and Arnell Gallanosa beat the Cin­cinnati tandem of Reister and Moorman in straight sets. Notre Dame's Shaun Sparkman and Jim Kilway also won in straight sets. John Sordi and Xavier Serrono grabbed the final win for the Irish. 
Saturday afternoon the Irish took on Bowling Green, a team Notre Dame beat last year 6-3. The Irish played a perfect match as they went on to defeat the Falcons 9-0. Bowling Green failed to win a set in any of the matches. Notre Dame dominated the Falcons in every aspect of the game. 
In number one singles Kalbas crushed Ken Bruce of Bowling Green 6-1, 6-0. The other Irish singles winners were Wenger, Walsh, Reiter, Daggs and Kuhlman. 
In the top doubles match Kalbas and Wenger rolled over Peter Ellsworth and Ken Bruce 6-0, 6-2. The other Irish doubles wins came from Odland and 
Kuhlman and O'Brien and Gal­lanosa. 
Overall, these matches pro­vided a needed break for the Irish squad. One of the most positive aspects of the weekend action was the play of Dave Reiter. Reiter must play the rest of the season with a painful foot injury. But he played ex­cellently in both matches and doesn't expect the injury to hamper his play. 
"I'm pretty sore today, but it wasn't bad on the court," Reiter said. "If I make any sharp cuts I could aggravate the injury, so I have to be care­ful. I may have an operation over the summer but it won't slow me down now". 
The Irish next take to the court Friday against Mar­quette. 
USOC seeks financial help 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta-In the wake of one of the United States' worst Winter Olympics, American athletes are looking dubiously at George Steinbren­ner's plans to fix the mess. 
The New York Yankees boss won't find it as easy as firing a manager or swinging a trade, they say, and he might even have his priorities backward. 
One area where he may be able to help, everyone agrees, is in finance. Money can't buy love, happiness or Italy's Al­berto Tomba, but a lot more hard cash can go a long way to ending America's Olympic 

Officials and athletes say it will take millions and a wholly revamped training program to put U.S. olympic athletes on the same level with their top rivals. 
There is considerable debate, though, about how the money can be raised, how it should be spent and whether the United States ought to put as much emphasis on winning in the Olympics as the leading medalists -the Soviet Union and East Germany. 
However, by any measure the U.S. team had a feeble showing this year and everyone feels the time has come to act. 
No American team in the fewer medals relative to the 

total number awarded. Of the 
138 medals available, 
Americans won six. In the first Winter Games in 1924 Americans won four of the 43 medals awarded. In 1928, they won six of 41; in 1936 four of 51; in 1964 six of 102. 
No U.S. alpine skier won a medal. Only twice before, in 1956 and 1968, were Americans snowed out on the slopes since the current type of downhill and slalom began in 1948. 
The U.S. hockey team failed to reach the medal round for the second consecutive Olym­
woes. Winter Olympics ever won pics and wound up seventh. 

eaZy I \I pc Sin.~le Floppy I )rin:: 
~uggt·~tt·d reL11I prin·:  $999  
I)ual Floppy I>riH·:  
~ug.l..!t·:-;tt·d rt'1;11l pnn·:  $1199  

Single Floppy with liard I >isk: 
~ll.\..!.\..!t'~lt'd reL1il pl"ll"t': $1699 

our price only: our price only: our price only: 
$499 $599 $899 
The eaZy TM pc from Zenith Data Systems gives you a full-featured computer that's so simple to operate, you can be up and running within minutes after opening the box. And it even comes with a 14" monochrome moni­tor attached. Along with an easy-to-use keyboard, and compact, high-capacity 3Y2" disk drive. Added to all this, you get some very important extras ... 
Like service and support. As an authorized Zenith Data Systems dealer, we'll give you a full demonstra­tion. Match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs have been met. 
So come talk to us. Here's our calling card! 


Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center-x7689 -or-Fourway Computer Prod. Brad Koch 277-7720 



?i•nw :data 

~ ~ systems 
AuT H ll 1-1•: f[1 0 E AL E1.1 


..------~ --~--­
page 14 The Observer 



NO hockey sweeps series, eyes upcoming ACHA playoffs 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team finished its season by doing what they've been accus­t"med to doing all year long-­sweeping a weekend series. 
lJnfortunately, it came one weekefld late. 
After having their slight playoff hopes dashed at the hands of Michigan-Dearborn last weekend, the Irish came back strong by taking both ends of a home-and-home series with Lake Forest, and raising their regular season record to 25-4-2. Notre Dame won, 6-1, at Lake Forest on Friday night, and returned to the friendly confines of the JACC Saturday to win, 4-2. 
Notre Dame head coach Ric Schafer was pleased with the way his squad rebounded from last weekend's tough road trip. 
"We talked about it before (Friday's) game," said Schafer, in his first year as head coach of the Irish. "We knew that we had no shot at the playoffs anymore and that we could either roll over or finish strong. 
"The mark of a good hockey team is nothow they play after they win, but the way they bounce back after a tough loss. We bounced back real well." 
But according to Schafer, the Irish victories epitomized both ends of the spectrum as far as intensity is concerned. 
"Friday night's game was easily one of our best efforts this year," said Schafer. "We finally played nearly 60 minutes of a hockey game. We're at our best when everybody contributes equally 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
came, the Demons pulled the game out. 
"Anytime you come into South Bend and win, you're happy," said Izard. "We feel very good to leave here with a win. Notre Dame's a very good basketball team --very well coached, do lots of things well, got good size. The're tough to beat. We're happy." 
After seeing their six-game 

winning streak stopped by the 
happy Blue Demons, the 18-7 
Irish will have to put it together 
to hit the 20-victory mark this 
week on the road at Illinois­
Chicago and Northern Illinois. 
well--when there aren't really any standouts but everyone performs consistently. (Mike) McNeill played great, but that's consistent for him." 
McNeill got the Irish on the right track Friday when he scored 10 seconds into the 
game. The goal sparked an in­
tense effort by the Irish, who 
left the ice, after two more 
early goals by Tom Mooney 
and Pat Foley, with a 3-0 first­
period lead. 
The Foresters picked up a 
goal early in the second period 
to make it 3-1, but Lance Pat­
ten's power play goal with a 
minute to go in the period kept 
the margin at a comfortable 
three goals. Two Irish third­
period goals sealed the road 
victory. 
Saturday's game, however, 
was perhaps not the clinic that 
Friday's might have been. 
"No, it wasn't picturesque," 
remarked Schafer after the 4-2 
win. "The sun was shining, it 
was a nice warm day, we didn't 
get back (from Lake Forest) 
until late Friday night, ... a lot 
of factors came into play. Let's 
just say we played well enough 
to win. We played about half as well as we did the night before, but, thankfully, so did Lake Forest.'; 

Again it was the senior cap­tain McNeill, playing in his last home game for the Irish, who opened the scoring. His power play goal halfway through the first period put the Irish on the scoreboard first. Bob Bilton made the score 2-0 on a pretty assist from Bob Herber. 
Lake Forest threatened to make it a close game when they scored the final goal of the first period. But Thomas Smith an­swered early in the second and the Irish defense made the 3-1 lead stand up until Herber scored to put the game out of reach midway through the third. Lake Forest scored with five minutes left to provide the final margin of victory. 
The Irish go back to Dear­born to participate in the ACHA tournament next weekend. In the first round, Notre Dame faces Lake Forest again, and with a win, will probably ad­vance to play the host, Michigan-Dearborn. Three of the four Irish losses this year have come at the hands of the Wolves. 
"Winning the tournament, especially by beating Michigan-Dearborn, would be a pretty good way to redeem ourselves for losing last weekend's series to them" said Schafer. "That would be' a real happy ending for what has been a great season." 
The Senior C[a.ss of t-he University of Notre :Pame. and 
Saint nary's Co~ e. rU{uest the honour of your presence at the. Senior :Forma[ Dinner Dance. on Saturcfay, the 16th of A.pri[ Nineteen hundred and e.U;Jhty-e.i<Jht The G.rand BaUroom Hyatt R~e.ncy 151 :East lvacke.r Drive Chicago, 1Uinois 
23id ~aff.i c::Ma~ch lit, 2nd, and 3~d 
§Lt a dalE. now. 
AOW~S 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 


AMADEUS 
by Peter Shaffer 
directed by Frederic Syburg 
Washington Hall 
Wed., March 2, Thurs., March 3, Fri., March 4, Sat., March 5-8:10 P.M. Sun., March 6-3:10 P.M. 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 Tickets are available at Students & Senior Citizens $4 Washington Hall Ticket OHice on W9d., Thurs., Sun. only. Weekdays Noon to 6 PM. MasterCard/Visa orders 239-5957 

Monday, February 29, 1988 · 

Heidi Bunek goes up for two of her team-high 22 points In the Notre Dame's heartbreaking losli)o DePaul Sunday In women's basketball. Theresa Kelly has the details of the game beginning on the back 
page. 


HOMOPHOBIA IN THE ACADEMY 
A Lecture by Dr. Claude J. Summers Professor of English University of Michigan-Dearborn 
Tuesday, March 1, 1988 7:00PM Room 283, Galvin Life Science Building 
Sponsored by Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame'Saint Mary's College 

Lecture by: 



Arthur Schlesinger 
-one of America's most influential historians and cherished writers -former special assistant to President John F. Kennedy -author of The Age of Jackson, winner of Pulitzer Prize for history 
·author of A Thousand Days: John F. Kenned')' in the White House, winner of Pulitzer Prize for biography 
March 7, 1988 Washington Hall 8:00 pm Tickets $2.00 
Available at The Cellar Feb 29 -March 4 
Sponsored by Student Union Board 
---------~-­
-
Monday, February 29, 1988 
The Observer page 15 






,Campus 
12:00 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Kellogg Institute, Department of Sociology Family Pro­gram and the Japan Club lecture, "Japanese Women Making Their Way in Eco­nomics and Public Affairs," by Dr. Dorothy Robins-Mowry, Research Associate for South Asia Program, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, 
Washington, D.C. Library Lounge. 4:00p.m.-5:30p.m. Kellogg Institute, Department of Sociology Family Pro­gram and the Japan Club lecture, "Japan in Transition," by Dr. Dorothy Robins­Mowry. Library Lounge. 4:00p.m.-6:00p.m. Kellogg Institute, Department of Anthropology, and the 
Black Studies Program lecture and slide presentation, "Bumba Meu Boi, African, Amerindian, and European Influences in a Brazilian Religious Folk Drama," by Kazadi Wan Mukuna, Ethnomusicologist, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, 
D.C. Room 141 Hayes-Healy Center. 
4:30p.m. Department of English Ward-Phillips lecture, Part I. Theme: The Languages of Pain: Literature, Medicine, and the Body, "Comedy: Pain and Its Absences," by Dr. David B. Morris, NEH Fellow in the Program in Humanities, Science, and Technology. Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
7:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "The Draughtman 's Contract,", 107 minutes, directed by Peter Greenaway, Great Britain. Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Love Me Tonight," 96 minutes, directed by Rouben Mamoulian, USA. Annenberg
Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Beach Party 

Comics 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Saint Mary's Roast turkey w/ dressing and gravy Sweet and sour pork over rice Noodles Alfredo Deli bar 


The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Slightly open 5 Semites 
10 Hoofbeat 
14 Metallic cloth 
15 Embankment 
16 Zero In tennis 
17 Copied 18 Coeur d' ­19 Anthony or Barbara 20 "-unto Caesar ... " 22 Barn coating often 24 Doctrine 25 Longing 26 Buckle 29 Machine part 32 Shelve 36 Quiet 37 "-Is she" ("The Ancient Mariner") 39 Pierre's pal 40 VIne Item 41 Had a meal 42 Colorful comic ~ 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 02/29/88
All Rights Reserved

44 Blockhead 45 Scoff 46 Unit 7 State firmly 47 Gruff 8 Part of n.b. 48 Decline 9 Shabby 50 Gentleman 10 Soap 51 Colorful 11 lt. city 
musician 12 Furnace 56 Cosset 13 Confined 60 Touched 21 Special Insight 
ground 23 Treadle 61 Fragrant resin 26 Burns 63 Jot 27 Optical unit 64 Elegant 28 Stage whisper 65 Steve or 29 Poem type 
Woody 30 Increase 
66 Part of speech 31 Fr. river 67 Adios 33 Young horses 68 Count 34 Prevent In law 69 Estrada of TV 35 Thin In tone 
37 Macerate 

DOWN 38 Family 1 Winglike member 2 Quip 40 Before jet or 3 Prayer word prop 4 Rufescent 43 Boullion 5 Siren 44 Certain 6 Set of beliefs: pigment 
abbr. 47 Inlet 
Bill Watterson The Far Side 
p A 'D'. 'IT 0
0 Plf!SI

0 R E S C 0 T E S H EILILI E G A N E L I A H A NIKIYI IMIU_LS_j_IC 
AILICIH A 

IIR~ 
I 0 S 

REOIMIEIAT.OOM AS TIIIN-AITIT!AIN 0 A c H 1 NiS_lEICIHIEIC KIE R S T 0 G_lA TIEIL-HIAIRIS H UTE.PARIEIIRA P E R S 0 N-R E C E I P T IIIIlS P I NTH E 8 0 T T L E R A
G EIIIIB

S E E P A 
.........1A 0 ••1... 
IIPLAiYLll...E. ITIA Ill IEILIEIE ITIRIE E 0 A R C S 0 R T 
49 Ovlne 
sound  
50  Having  
thorns  
51  Float  
52  - Kazan  
53  Force  

54 Raines or Logan 
55 Cheer 
57 Indigent 
58 Small case 
59 Status 

62 Torme of song 
Gary Larson 



What's Happening with SUB this week: 
Wed & Thurs  -8:00 & 10:30 pm  
Saturday  
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang  Fri & Sat  -8:00 & 10:00 pm  LIP SYNC  
Clockwork  Orange  CONTEST  
Don't forget to:  
Celebrate St. Patrick's Day ...  a wee-bit early this week!!!  at Theodore's  


-------~
.....------------------------­



Sports 
Monday, February 29, 1988 · 
page 16 

Vandy turns back Notre Dame 75-66 
DePaul hangs on for crucial win over Irish 
kevin 'VIgilante' Duggan lands a left against Ken Steve Megargee has the quarterfinal rundown at 'Handsome and Husky' Matlusky In Sunday's left. opening round of the 58th Annual Bengal Bouts. 
Depth, surprises offset Irish plan 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
If you had told Notre Dame head co­ach Digger Phelps that Vanderbilt's 7-1 center Will Perdue would score only 10 points while sitting on the bench for most of the second half and that the Commodores would shoot only two three-pointers, he probably would have told you that the Irish would be in a position to win. 
Unfortunately, that's not how it hap­pened. While both of Vandy's main weapons were silenced, the rest of the Commodores picked up the slack as they sailed past the Irish 75-66 Saturday night. 
"That's what we wanted to do," Phelps said afterward. "The three­point shots obviously didn't bother us. Perdue was on the bench for most of the game with foul trouble, and yet we didn't take advantage of those situa­tions. I don't think we did the things that were there. We wanted to go inside, and we didn't go inside enough. 
"We weren't getting mileage from some veterans. Beside Joe Fredrick (who had a game-high 19 points), we weren't getting another player wired to 
see VANDY, page 12 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
It was heartbreak at the Joyce ACC. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team won the battle but lost the war against the DePaul Blue Demons Sunday. The Irish got the ball to Heidi Bunek to make the most of a great height advantage, but Bunek's timely scoring was not enough. 
The quicker, pesky Demons had the three-point bucket on their side and they made the big plays when it counted most: the last seconds of the game. 
The Irish were up by two with 
1: 25 to go when Irish-killer Andrea Morgan got the steal and the breakaway bucket to tie the game at 67-67. The teams traded trips down the 

Favorites take wins as 58th Bengals open 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Both sides of senior Kevin Duggan had reason to be pleased during the first day of the 58th Annual Bengal Bouts on Sunday at the Stepan Cen­ter. 
Kevin 'Vigilante' Duggan, a defending Bouts champion, got his title defense off to the right start with a second-round tech­nical knockout of Ken 'Handsome and Husky' Mat­lusky in the junior welter­weight quarterfinals. 
And Kevin Duggan the Notre Dame boxing club president was pleased with the overall performance of the boxers. 
"We have an excellent field," said Duggan. "Every weight floor without scoring before Demon Veronica Ross sank a lay-in with nine seconds to go. 

Notre Dame was ready to take the ball down the court and try to score, but Irish guard Mary Gavin couldn't get a handle on the ball and had to call time-out. Mter the break, Gavin again got the ball and drew the foul on Morgan. 
Gavin went to the line for the one-and-one and sank the first before DePaul called time-out to give the senior more time to think about it. 
Whether Demon head coach Jim Izard's strategy had anyth­ing to do with it or not, Gavin missed the bonus shot. Bunek nearly brought down .the ball for the Irish, but DePaul's Ross came down with it and the final two seconds ran off the clock. 
"We didn't want to take the 
class is looking tough. We have a lot of returning champs, re­turning fighters and some new guys who are fighting well. In the lower weight classes, you've got four guys who could be the champion." 
Duggan is one of three re­turning champions in this year's Bouts. None of them even had to go the distance on Sunday. 
Mike 'High' Noone, a two­time defending champ, looked particularly impressive in a second-round TKO of Mike 'Mr. Magoo' Joyce in the junior lightweight division. 
"I feel a lot more confident this year," said Noone. "I've been training three hours a day 
see BENGALS, page 11 

Untimely slumps dash Irish hopes 

David Rivers tries to get around Vander-Corrigan details the game at left and Rick bllt's Will Perdue In Notre Dame's loss Rletbrock looks at Notre Dame's costly to the Commodores Saturday. Dennis shooting woes at right. 
last time out," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "We wanted to go right at the bas­ket. It was still a good play by Mary to get to the free-throw line. 
"We didn't lose the game be­cause Mary Gavin missed a free-throw," McGraw contin­ued. "We still had a chance. Heidi got a hand on the ball, and then we were supposed to foul on the rebound, but nobody moved. Maybe the pressure got to us then." 
Morgan's tying basket at 1:25 was her only two-point bucket of the afternoon. The 5-foot guard nailed six-of-eight three-point shots for the Demons in the first half and finished 7-of­13, totalling 23 points. DePaul's All-America candidate Donna 
Vines scored 19 points, almost _game," McGraw said. "We had five below her average. a little trouble into our 
"We were a little tentative on offense," McGraw said. "We worked all week on guarding Morgan on the outside, and we didn't do a good job early, so she hurt us." 
This was not just another game for the Irish. The loss practically dashes all hopes of an NCAA bid and puts the Demons up two games in the North Star Conference with two to go. The tough lost also marred the final home contest for Irish seniors Gavin, Sandy Botham and Kathy Barron. 
The game was very physical with DePaul trying to over­come the height advantage of the Irish and Notre Dame working to slow down the quicker Demons. 
"It was a very physical 
By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
Slumps just have no sense of timing. 
At a time when Notre Dame was at­tempting to add an impressive win over a top-20 opponent, its outside game was nowhere to be found and that cost the Irish in their 75-66 loss to Vanderbilt. 
Vanderbilt played a straight 2-3 zone most of the game and Notre Dame's marksmen were consistently off the mark. Mark Stevenson went scoreless and Sean Connor managed only a three­pointer when the outcome was already decided. 
"We just didn't get any mileage out of some veterans in the first half," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "Stevenson and Connor go 0-5 in the first half and you just can't do that against a zone. 
"That was the difference tonight, the guys that usually stick the shots against the zone just weren't into it offensively. Guys that are supposed to be zone­busters were cold tonight." 
Stevenson, still trying to get back in stride on offense, missed his four at­tempts in 19 minutes of play and said he is struggling to overcome a slump. 
see SLUMPS, page 10 
offense, but once we realized that they (the referees) weren't going to call anything, we got in the game." 
"The loss hurts," said Bot­ham of her last home game at Notre Dame. "I felt good going in. We played a good game as a team, but they were physical, and they played dirty. We let them get to us a little bit with that kind of play. 
"But it's always been a rivalry. We know coming into it that it will be rough, but once you're out on the court, it's hard sometimes to stay cool." 
Heidi Bunek led the Irish with 22 points and 11 boards, while Gavin added 12 points. The Irish shot 54 percent from the field, but when crunch time 







