Irish Extra 
Ill.'fll . 
The Fiesta Bowl 
·-'==========------··--···----·· 
VOL. XXII, N0.67 
~------------,1 
I 
! 
! 

. i &
' 

Heeere's Cold Miser J
etc. 
Mostly sunny and cold today. 
High 25 to 30. Increasing 
cloudiness tonight with a 40 

London Scene 
Fiesta guide 
percent chance of snow . 
l 



the indepenctent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Death toll rises in Soviet earthquake 
j, 
l 
At the University Park Mall Sunday afternoon, a young girl tells Santa what she wants for Christmas. Parents who waited a long time on line to get their children's pictures taken 

Associated Press 
RABAT, morocco-A missile attack downed one of two DC-7 planes from the U.S. agency for International Development over Mauritania on Thursday, and all five people aboard were presumed dead, officials said. 
Th~ other plane was damaged by the anti-aircraft missiles but was able to fly on and land in Morocco, and no injuries were reported among those aboard. 
Official sources in this North African country suggested that rebels of the Marxist Polisario Front were to blame for the at­tack. The sources spoke on con­dition of anonymity. 
The attack occurred as both planes flew over a border area where nationalist rebels have waged a guerrilla war against . the Moroccan government to establish an independent West­ern Sahara. 
The area where the plane was shot down is 650 miles southwest of Rabat, the Moroc­can capital. 
In Washington, AID spokes­man Bart Kull said both planes were used for spraying locusts swarms in Senegal, which bor­ders Mauritania to the south. 
weren't quite as thrilled to see jolly old St. Nick. 
Missiles down two U.S. planes in Mauritania 
Locust infestations have ravaged much of northern Africa this year. 
A spokesman at the U.S. em­bassy in Rabat said the two planes left Dakar, Senegal, earlier Thursday and were bound for the Moroccan city of Agadir when they came under fire from ground-to-air mis­siles. 
Moroccan government offi­cials said the two planes were fired upon while they were flying at 10,000 feet to 11,000 feet in an international naviga­tion corridor over Bir Mogh­rein, northern Mauritania. 
"The five crew members of the downed aircraft, all of whom are American citizens, are presumed dead," an AID statement said. "The crew members of the other plane had been taken to Agadir." 
The AID statement said the 

planes are owned by T & G 
Aviation of Chandler, Ariz., 
and are under contract to AID's 
Office of Foreign Disaster As­
sistance for locust spraying. 
Another AID spokesman in 

Washington, Jerry Lipson, said 
the five crew members in the 
downed plane were employees 
See PLANE, page 8 · 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Soviet authorities rushed military surgeons and tons of medical supplies Thursday into Armenia, rocked by an earthquake that officials said virtually destroyed several cities and killed tens of thousands of people. 
Armenian journalists said a Polit­buro commission led by Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov received preliminary estimates that up to 50,000 people died in the Wednesday earthquake, which measured 6.9 on the Richter scale. So­viet officials reported thousands of people were killed but provided no death toll. 
President Mikhail Gorbachev cut short his trip to the United States and flew home to lead a worldwide emer­gency rescue effort in the southern republic, which has a population of 3.3 million. 
"Urgent measures are being taken to help all those affected by this terrible tragedy, and I have to be there in this effort,'' said Gorbachev, who planned to fly to Yerevan after arriving in Mos­cow. He canceled planned trips to Cuba and Britain. 
President Reagan offered emer­gency humanitarian aid, Cuban Presi­dent Fidel Castro pledged to sent con­struction workers, and Britain dispatched London firefighters to join the rescue effort. 
Soviet TV showed a clock on a build­ing in the city of Leninakan, on the Turkish border near the epicenter of the earthquake, stopped at 11:41-the instant disaster struck. 
The earthquake destroyed two-thirds of Leninakan, Armenia's second­largest city with a population of 250,000 people, a TV correspondent said. 
Spitak, a town of 16,000 about 45 miles away, "was practically erased from the face of the Earth," the correspondent said. 
Tass said half the buildings in Kirovakan, a city of 150,000, had crumbled. 
A special meeting of representatives of all 15 Soviet republics was called in Yerevan, the Armenian capital, on Friday to discuss disaster relief. 
Soviet authorities dispatched doc­tors, engineers, food and medical sup­plies to the area, and helicopters ferried the injured northward to hospi­tals in neighboring Soviet Georgia, the Tass news agency reported. 
Tass said 2,300 people were hospi­talized in Yerevan with injuries from the quake and that 200 had been hospi­talized across the border in Georgia. It did not say how many of the injured were treated elsewhere. . For a second night Thursday, mil­lions of Soviet TV viewers saw soldiers searching for survivors and bodies in huge piles of concrete rubble, either by hand or with cranes. The disaster 
See QUAKE, page 8 



ND Knights of Columbus in limbo following suspension 
By CHRIS DONNELLY SARA MARLEY MARK }\'fcLAUGHLIN Senior Staff Reporters 
Allegations of theft, financial wrongdoing, and subversion in the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus have led to University suspension of the local council and a continuing investigation by the Knights Supreme Council. 
Special Report 

The University officially suspended the Knights on Nov. 
1. According to Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for student services, the suspension was issued "prin­cipally because of internal dif­ficulties and also a clarification of relations between the local Knights of Columbus, the Uni­versity and the Supreme Coun­
cil., Many of the problems within the organization were brought 
The Observer I Zoltan Ury 

to light by Grand Knight Mi-
The Knights of Columbus building will remain closed until See KNIGHT, page 4 
the fall of 1989. 
page2 
IN BRIEF 
For Pat McManus, the Notre Dame alumnus who died 
Wednesday from injuries received after a car hit him in 
Chicago, a funeral Mass will be celebrated Sunday at 4 
p.m. at Saint James Church in Elkins Park, Pa. Funeral arrangements will be made by the Joseph McGoldrick Funeral Home in Jenkintown, Pa., McManus' hometown. Viewing will be Saturday from 7-9 p.m. and Sunday from 1-3 p.m. The McGoldrick Funeral Home is located at 507 West Avenue in Jenkintown, a suburb of Philadelphia. The church is located at 8220 Brookside Road in Elkins Park, adjacent to Jenkintown. The viewing and funeral Mass were arranged this weekend to allow Notre Dame students to attend before final exams begin Monday, Mrs. McManus, Pat's mother, said. -The Observer 

OF INTEREST 
A Memorial Service for John Duggan, former president of Saint Mary's College, will be held Tuesday, Dec. 13, at 5 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. Father David Murphy will preside. -The Observer 
VIdeotaped mock Interviews will be offered to juniors, seniors, and graduate students through the Career and Placement Services office January 23-27. This is an ideal way to enhance your job interviewing skills with an employer representative. Sign up now, as these appoint­ments fill quickly. Stop by the Career and Placement of­fice, or call 239-5200. -The Observer 
Foreign Study Program students who will be abroad this spring, please come to the Office of Student Residences and sign your housing contract for the fall of '89. If you plan to move off campus, we still need your signature so we can return your room deposit in a timely manner. -The Observer 
Senior Ski Trip sign-ups for Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's seniors will continue today from 2 to 5 p.m. in 
the senior class office in LaFortune Student Center. Call 
the senior class office at 239-5136 for more information. 
-The Observer 

A student chamber music recital will be presented by the department of Music today at 7 p.m. in the Annen­berg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. -The Observer 
1989 Annual BCAF Talent Show is looking for great talent for show on Saturday, February 11, 1989. After break, contact Tracy X3879 or Agnes X4011. -The Observer 
The Iceberg Debates, Notre Dame's 1st Campus-Wide debate series, is looking for students to represent their halls in a debate series on exciting social issues in January and Fel>ruary, 1989. All interested students are encouraged to contact their hall president by Friday, December 9. Interested off-campus students call Maeve at 283-2569. ­
The Observer 

Are you experienced? Can you "rock the house?" If so, battle it out with the other DJ's on campus. For more information, or application, contact Laurenteen X4968 or Tracy Lowery X3879. -The Observer 
Financial aid forms are being distributed this week to all students who applied for financial aid this year. The FAFs will be mailed to off-campus and on-campus stu­dents. If you want aid for the 198MIO academic year, the FAF must be completed between Jan. 1 and Feb. 28. Extra FAFs are available in he Financial Aid Office. -The Ob­server 
The 12th Annual Christmas Nazz, an informal Christmas show, will take place Saturday, Dec. 10 at 8 
p.m. in the basement of Keenan Hall. Hot chocolate and cookies will be served and admission is free. Any ques­tions, call Tom Varnum at 283-3267. -The Observer 
LaFortune Student Center will be open until3 a.m. Sunday through Thursday of finals week. -The Observer 

Deaign Editor . . . .. .. . Bernadette ShillS Etc. Editor... .. ....... John Blasi Deaign Auiltantl ........... Janice O'Leary Etc. De1igner. .. ..... Tim Irvine ....................................... Shannon Poley TJ1piltl ................................. Sue Barton Typeaettera.... Molly Schwartz ............................................. Val Poletto ............................ .. ... Paul Jackson ND Day Editor ............... Betsy Mennen New• Editor... .. . Matt Gallagher SMC Day Editor ............... Sarah Demel Copy Editor .............. Christine Walsh Photographer .. .............. Rob Regovich Sport• Copy Editor ....... Steve Megargee lri&h Extra Editor ....... Marty Strassen Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Patrick Zande lri&h Extra Layout ...... Annette Rowland A..t. Viewpoint Editor.. .. .... Syl Flood ........................................... Alison Cocks Viewpoint Lay<>Ut..... .. Laura Manzi 
'he Ollelner (USPS ~99 2-4000) is publisbcd Monday throuah Friday cxoept durina eum and vacation periods. ne Ollaener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint MUJ'I Collqe. Subscriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year (Slj per semester) by writina 'he OMerYer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Damc,lndiaoa46,56. 
ne o..n. is • member or ne A.lodaiNI r-. All reproduction ri&hts are rCICI'Yed. 
The Observer Friday, December 9, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 


Waiting is not just for the Advent season 
I spent last Christmas eve in the Munich air­
port waiting for a friend to arrive. 
I had to leave the ski chalet where over a 
hundred Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 
were spending Christmas in Kitzbuehl, Austria, 
at 5 a.m. to get to the airport in time. 
I think I woke the majority of them up as I 
crawled out from under the warmth of my feat­
her comforter. We had spent the night both 
celebrating our togetherness and forgetting the 
thousands of miles between us and our families, 
so let's just say that I've felt better. 
A few other students who were studying in 
Rome and Angers joined me on our prolonged 
and painfully early journey. It began with the 
hike down the sadly snowless slope to meet a 
taxi which took us to the train station in 
Kitzbuehl. We had to transfer trains in Woergl 
and Jenbach before we finally arrived in 
Munich. From the train station there I took a 
bus to the airport. 
All of this before 9 a.m., which is when the 
plane was supposed to arrive. 
Originally I had been concerned that I wouldn't beat the plane. Well, I did. It was still sitting in London. 
German airports don't exactly operate like ours. There are only two monitors announcing which planes have actually landed, and I dis­covered they are less than accurate. At various times, I read my friend's plane had landed, that it was cancelled, and that it was en route. 
Others were waiting for the same flight and we got what little information we could. It looked like there would be a delay of four or five hours, so most of the others returned to their homes, hotels, or went to downtown Munich to check out the Christmas market. 
My Deutsch-Marks were limited, so all I could do was sit and wait. ~~ 
I had brought stuff along to read and work on for the trip. My plans for after Christmas were to travel to Paris and London with my friend, so I had a copy of Dickens' "Tale of Two Cities." I started some letters and Christmas postcards that I'm pretty sure are still in a box in my closet. 
Eventually my Sesame Street attention span expired and I took to looking around at the people coming home for Christmas. I guess my fifteen years of Catholic education caught up with me because something else dawned on me then. 
It was Advent, and this is what Advent is all about: waiting. 
When I was little the hours on Christmas eve seemed to creep by too. We used to go sledding in the afternoon, and maybe bake Christmas cookies. Even dinner dragged on as we have this tradition of having fondue on Christmas eve. We also draw names for gifts in my family, so I had to wait to open those gifts. And then I had to wait until midnight to go to Mass. I used to read books just to pass the time. 
Sara 1\
Marley ... 
. 

Assistant News Editor . 

Nothing can beat an entire day at the Munich airport, though. As the morning and finally af­ternoon dragged on, we became seriously in jeopardy of missing the last train back to Kitzbuehl. 
Unless Oktoberfest is on, Munich is not a fa­vorite spot of mine. And excited as I was to see my friend who was arriving, I wasn't too keen on spending Christmas eve in Munich away from my friends and my skis. 
My airport story does have a happy ending. My friend finally got there, he brought me the new Billy Joel tape, we caught the very last train to Kitzbuehl, and we arrived back at the chalet just as dinner was starting. 
We drank Gluhwein, this incredible hot spiced wine, sang Christmas carols, and then walked a few miles in the clear Austrian night to the little parish church that looks like it's straight off of some calendar. 
As college students, waiting is a part of our everyday lives. We wait for our meals, for tick­ets, for checkmarks. Right now we are all waiting for exams to be over and for vacation to start. Some of us are waiting for graduation, for the job offer, for the right person to come along, for life in the "Real World" to begin. 
Hey kids, wake up. This is the "Real World." Well, that may be debatable, but it is your real life to do with it what you will. Christmas al­ways comes after Christmas eve, sweet and sour pork awaits at the end of the proverbial dining hall line, and for most of us graduation will come after college. 


Friday, December 9, 1988 


Junior Parents Weekend plans 
By FLORENTINE seating will not be completed HOELKER until payment is received in Staff Reporter full, said Boron 
"JPW is a continually 

Junior Parents' Weekend is growing event," said Groth, approaching, and juniors plan­"and it is a policy of the Uni­ning on going February 17-19 versity that everyone will be should begin to consider the accomodated. But we are con­details surrounding the event, cerned with space constraints, according to Christine Boron, and if numbers exceed the the chair of JPW. capacity of the fieldhouse, then 
Boron and Robert Groth, the those applicants received later executive coordinator of JPW, will be placed in the upper con­said that juniors should be course of the JACC." aware that the process of or­Boron stressed the fact that ganizing JPW is beginning, and families are limited to three that they should start deciding tickets per event so that every on their seating preferences for junior would have the opportu­the event. nity to attend. 
Groth stressed that since The first major item on the seating and ticket applications JPW agenda is the "Manhattan are due right after Christmas Magic Gala" which will be in break on January 17, juniors the north dome of the JACC. It 
As part of the University's annual Christmas bonus 

should complete them as soon as possible. 
Juniors may request to sit next to two other fellow stu­dents and their respective par­ents, and they may also request to sit next to two other tables of their choice. It is important, said Boron, that all requests have corresponding names so that the requests may more easily be filled, if possible. 
Also, if guests have any physical handicaps, this should be noted on the request forms. 
The applications, which should be returned to the Cen­ter for Continuing Education, must be submitted with the full payment for the event because 
Have a Merry Christmas 

This is the last issue of The Observer before the Christmas holiday. The Ob­server will resume publica­tion on Thursday, January 19, 1989. Go Irish! 
wife of a WNDU employee, at Stepan Center Wed­
will feature booths with themes 
to its employees, Andy Beidinger of general main­nesday.
like Chinatown and Little Italy. 
tainance gives a holiday turkey to Karen Stitt, the
Hors d'oeuvres and a cash bar will be available, and dancing will be held in the arena. 
Saturday, a collegiate 

Computer lab to be set upworkshop for all four colleges will be presented for the par­ents, and a class mass will be 
on second floor of libraryheld in the JACC at 4:30. Fol­lowing the mass will be the By KATHY RYAN User Services Director Scott applications lab, which is text president's dinner at 6:15. News Staff Cowdrey. processing, spread sheet, and 
The last day of the event, Last summer, University other basic software applica­
Sunday, will have a closing The Office of University Computing reorganized User tions." brunch at 9:30 with Lou Holtz Computing will begin setting Services in order to enhance The lab will be divided into as the special guest. up a new computer complex public use. Cowdrey was four sections, two public and 
Boron reported that the only near the Reserve Book Room named director in charge of two training facilities. Accor­change in the schedule con­on the second floor of the li­most of the public computer ding to Cowdrey, the training cerned the hall receptions, brary over Christmas Break. labs on campus. sections will be open to the which will be held in the indi­The project was designed by The new lab will be staffed public when not being used, in vidual dormitories as the newly reorganized User and designed like the LaFor­order to "never be in a situa­luncheons. Services Department that is tune and O'Shaughnessy com­tion where the machines are in­
The lottery for rooms in the working to enhance public use plexes and will have Apple accessible and unused." Morris Inn, which was sup­of computers on campus. Macintosh computers, IBWAT Bob Miller, director of the li­posed to have taken place the or compatibles, and brary, said the complex will be first week of December, will in­"A major funding effort has laserwriters. open only during library hours. stead take place at the end of been undertaken by the univer­"There will be approxi­Cost will keep them from January. Juniors should watch sity officers to make up for mately forty of the Macs and having it open 24 hours. The Observer for details of the what has been called a approximately thirty of the time to request places in the deficiency in computer DOS based (computers)," said 
However, Miller agrees with 

lottery, said Boron. facilities on campus," said Cowdrey. "It will be a general Cowdrey that the lab will be 
Why Wait in Line? 


We Deliver. 
It's time you received the arrangements for you and then attention you deserve. We deliver the tickets to your office know you don't like waiting in or home. lines. So why do it? Call TCU Travel. We deliver. Also, we're the budget 
specialists. When you need 

Call us if you need a flight to the absolutely lowest fare, London or Long Beach -or you'll know that TCU Travel anywhere in between. Let us has delivered once again know if you want hotel reser­for you. vations or to stay at a Bed & Breakfast. We'll make all the All this because we think you 
deserve special treatment. TCU Travel -we deliver. 



807 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend and 346 W. State Road 23, Mishawaka (Opening in February) 
successful because the library "is a focal point for all students and is very accessible." 
The books have already been moved from the area near the Reserve Book Room. The extra space is being used for study tables and carrels during ex­ams. The completed facility will be closed off from the study area on second floor to leave a hallway to the Reserve Book Room. 
Cowdrey plans to have the li­brary renovations finished by the beginning of next semester and hopes to have the system set up and the lab open by March. 
"We are going to put a few more (labs) on campus within the next few years," said Cowdrey, adding the nextnew lab would be in the library of the Architecture Building. 
Future plans might include dorm complexes. 
~~~~~~~~~ 
t Need Help? Say: t 
t A Prayer to the t 
t Blessed Virgin 
(Never Found To Fall) t
t 0 Most beautiful Flower of Mount & 
& Carmel, Fruitful Vine, Splendour of ' 
' Heaven, Blessed Mother of the Son t 
& of God, Immaculate Virgin, assist me & 
' in this my necessity. 0 Star of the ' 
t Sea, help me and show me herin you & are my Mother. 't 0 Holy Mary, Mother of God, Queen & & of Heaven and Earth, I humbly ' ' beseech you from the bottom of my t 
t ~==~~~~:~:~:en~n=i~at can & 
& withstand your power. 0, show me ' ' herein you are my Mother, 0 Mary, t & conceived without sin, pray for us & ' who have recourse to thee. (3 times). '
t tSweet Mother, I place this cause in 
• your hands. (3 times). 


~~~~~~~~~ 
Friday, December 9, 1988

page 4 The Observer 
Sewell, and Student Judicial a presentation to the Supreme approval by senior officers, but is how things get mixed up," 
Coordinator Arty FeJes. Council against the guidelines had simply imposed the new said Leveille. "We received a list of names for the Knights proposed by Fa-guidelines. "They gave veto continued from page 1 from the office of Student Af­ther Patrick Sullivan, power to the chaplain, who is Other charges made 
fairs" as possible contacts, chaplairVadvisor for the only an honorary member, but chael Feeley and Chancellor said Leveille. Ten Knights offi­Knights, in January. The also acting as University Charges that attempts were Michael Faehner. "I'm sorry it cers were eventually asked to guidelines included tighter fin­moderator. This bypassed the made to subvert the leadership happened but I would do the testify over a seven-day period, ancial controls, a set process.'' of the Knights are "ludicrous," same thing again because I did said Faehner. percentage of profits to be said Ermine. "We tried to sub­the right thing," said Feeley. "We were asked to look into donated to charity, and a "veto Steak sale controversy vert the leadership only in the 
The Notre Dame Council, the affairs of the Knights ... power" for the chaplain sense that we would not let him founded in 1911, is the nation's to look at the whole role of the similar to that of moderators "It's no secret that they (the Grand Knight) run the oldest college council of the Knights and at specific allega­of other campus groups, accor­(opponents of guidelines) council the way the University Knights, a fraternal Roman tions," said Leveille. "Some ding to Faehner. wanted to move off-campus if wanted it to run," said York. Catholic organization which names were mentioned specif­Sullivan refused to comment. the guidelines were imposed," Feeley alleged that a group promotes Catholic education ically and there were some al­The guidelines "would pro­said Feeley. of Knights officials were and charity. legations against the whole or­vide continuity," said Feeley. Feeley and Faehner both al­"paranoid about the Univer­
A letter from Father David ganization," he added. According to Feeley, Sul­leged that certain officers were sity." This group was "a lot Tyson, vice president for stu­"It isn't clear what the reg­livan sent these guidelines to juggling the prices for the foot­more conservative" than most dent affairs, addressed to ulations were from the Su­the University, which ap­ball weekend Knights steak Knights, but did not help in Knights officers and members preme Council," said Leveille. proved them, and then to the sales. recruiting, he added. of the Administration, stated "The relationship between the Supreme Council, which also The Knights normally net The way his office was the Knights were suspended Knights, the University, and approved them. "It was a about $20,000 a year from the treated was "a form of harass­"for the duration of the 1988-89 the Supreme Council is unclear 
Knight 
ment," said Feeley. York dis­academic year" to serve "the the role of the 
agreed, saying that the only best interests of the Knights, chaplaiM'noderator is unclear. 
harassment is the normal the Notre Dame Council (of "The whole thing is like a big 
stress of the post of Grand Knights), the University, and bunch of spaghetti that we had 
Knight. all individuals involved." to untangle," added Leveille. 
As to charges of mail fraud, The Knights will be allowed The committee wrote a 
York said that the mail is in to reapply for University report which Tyson requested 
open bins and that "there is an recognition at the beginning of be kept confidential, said 
understanding that some mail the 1989-90 academic year, Leveille. 
although personal, pertains to after which their status would A Knights official who re­
the whole membership." He be probationary for three quested anonymity said he was 
said he felt the mail fraud years. The Knights will also be told by an administration offi­
charges were unfounded. subject to a yearly audit and cial that the ad hoc report rec­review by the Office of Student ommended a disciplinary in­
Hidden motivations? 

Affairs, according to the letter. vestigation by Student Affairs. The letter also stated that no Student Affairs officials dis­
According to Rocca, the disciplinary action against in­agreed, however. Indivdual 
Knights were suspended "prin­dividuals would be taken "as a disciplinary action was not 
cipally because of internal dif­result of allegations which led taken "because disciplinary 
ficulties and also a clarification to the inquiry of the ad hoc com­action was not recommended," 
of relations between the local mittee." said Rocca. "Those investigat­
Knights of Columbus, the Uni­Tyson refused to comment. ing the matter did not see fit to 
versity and the Supreme Coun­Faehner said allegations he recommend that disciplinary 
cil." Some officers of the made were brought by Feeley action be taken." 
Knights cited different reasons to Father Patrick Sullivan, Faehner said he felt the ad 
for the suspension. chaplaiM'noderator of the local hoc report was totally dis­
"The University felt the lead­Knights, on September 21. Sul­regarded by Student Affairs. 
ership was going in the wrong livan then approached Student "They (the administration) direction," said Reinkober. Affairs with the allegations, cracked down on the club process of working out fine steak sales, said Feeley. Most "The University didn't like a which included: rather than singling anyone details," said Rocca. "They of this money is donated to certain group of officers and 
• Unauthorized use of master out," he said. are not in definitive form." charities. most of them will graduate or keys; Feeley was informed that the Feeley was originally informed leave within the next year,"
Possible break-ins

• 
Unauthorized duplication Supreme Council had approved by Faehner that prices for the Reinkober continued. and removal of files; the guidelines in August by steaks had risen 40 cents per York agreed with Reinkober 

According to Feeley, his of­


• 
Alteration of phone record­mail. When he attempted to en­steak for the 1988 season, and that the University was trying


fice and the office of the Fin­

ings; force the new guidelines, raised the price of the steaks to get rid of some of the offi­
ancial Secretary were entered

• 
Harassment of Knights; however, Feeley said he was from $3 to $4. cers. York added that he would 

without authorization by other 


• 
Conspiricy to subvert the harassed by other Knights of­But Faehner told Feeley at include himself in this group.


Knights officers. Some items

leadership of the Grand ficers. "I was only obeying the College Council meeting "It is possible the University 
were taken and others were

Knight; what the Supreme Council told that the steaks had actually wanted to get rid of some mem­
• Misappropriation of funds tampered with, including a me," said Feeley. Signs an­risen only 10 cents a steak, and bers," Ermine said. 
phone answering machine and 

from steak sales; and nouncing the new guidelines that the original figure was re­Rocca said that the suspen­
a safe.

• Mail fraud. were defaced, Feeley added. ported higher in order to collect sion of the Knights was not 
Original copies of the Grand 

Feeley was then asked totes­more money. Feeley and Faeh­aimed at particular senior of­
Knight's files were allegedly

tify before Rocca, Tyson, and Supreme Council steps in ner immediately ordered the ficers. "It had nothing to do 
handed to State Deputy Grand 

Vice President for Residence steak price back to $3. with class," he said.
Knight Bernie Gannon by Trus­

Life John Goldrick, Faehner Feeley, Faehner, York and According to Faehner, he Some officers also believe 
tee Richard Coglianese at a

said. Faehner was also asked Coglianese all attended the Su­had been approached by other the University was trying to 
subsequent meeting, said

to testify before Rocca and preme Council college confer­Knights to take part in the fund avoid a confrontation with
Feeley. Coglianese had no com­

Goldrick. ence in New Haven, Conn., on appropriation. lawyers representing some of 
ment, but other officers dis­

The Knights of Columbus the weekend of October 1. At the officers. Tyson allegedly
puted the legality of file

building was locked on October the conference, York said he Some Knights maintain that told one of the officers that "the 3, said Deputy Grand Knight perusal. presented a "constitutional no fund transfers took place. University was called and
"In the course of the working 

Kevin York. argument" against the Treasurer Eric Reinkober threatened by lawyers."
of the Knights, certain people

Also on October 3, Security University-approved said, "No funds were misap­Several of those involved
have a constitutional right to

hand delivered a memo from guidelines, arguing that the propriated ... we have vouch­spoke to counsel and a least one 
access to files of the council,"

Goldrick and copy of Dulac to University was granted too ers for everything." He said he retained a lawyer, according to 
said York. "Everything in the 

officers, according to Trustee much control over the local felt there were too many con­York. "The University didn't
building is a file of the Knights. 

David Ermine. Security often Knights. According to York, trols for large-scale transfer of want to get involved because
If there were personal files in

delivers materials from Stu­the Supreme Council said the funds. these people had lawyers,"
the office then that is his fault." 

dent Affairs to make sure that guidelines were in the Knights' According to Rocca, a Uni­Feeley said. 
The removal of files "did

students receive them, said own interest. versity audit of the Knights However, no current suits
happen but it was authorized

Director of Security Rex "A council is given a charter during the ad hoc investigation against the University are cur­
and done by some of the trus­

Rakow. by the Supreme Council, and it "did not discover any gross or rently on file with the General 
tees and given to higher offi­

The memo, according to may operate fairly indepen­serious problems." He added Counsel's office, said Carol
cers," said Trustee David Er­

York, warned the Knights offi­dently under Knights rules, but that "we expect good record Kaesebier, assistant general
mine.

cers not to harass anyone over by the same token it is a keeping of all of our student or­counsel. She added that the pos­
But according to Feeley and 

the closing of the building. campus organization and it ganizations." sibility exists that something
Faehner, the Supreme Council must, as such, abide by Univer­However, according to the could be filed in the future. 

told them that the office of the sity rules," said Supreme Adv­letter to the Knights from Feeley had another explana­Grand Knight was off-limits to

Ad Hoc committee formed ocate Patrick Donlin. Tyson, the Knights "will be un­tion for the University suspen­
other council members. 

At this point, there was a der the University's unit sion. "The University felt that"There is no constitutional
Student Affairs formed an ad "big conflict on who actually budget system and will be. sub­time would heal it (the contro­
power to go through files,'' said 

hoc committee to look into the controlled the organization," ject to the recommendations of versy) better than anything
Feeley.

situation and make recommen­said Scott Berg, Knights war­the Department of Internal else," he said. "They didn't
No burglaries at the Knights 

dations. Headed by Director of den. "Students didn't like fol­Audit" if their reapplication is want any more problems."
of Columbus building were re­

Campus Ministry Father lowing the rules of charter and accepted. Other campus organ­
ported to Security, according to 

Andre Leveille, the committee then having the University set izations are currently under Future of the Knights
Rakow.

included Director of Student the final policy." this system. Activities Joseph Cassidy, Fis­Guidelines previously proposed Advocate John Raphael said "What you have is an organi­According to Rocca, the her Hall rector Brother Ed­"some things that the Univer­zation raising a considerable Knights may reapply for Uni­ward Luther, Student Body Files were allegedly sity wanted were against our amount of funds that is not un­versity recognition at the Vice President Michael Paese, removed, according to Knights bylaws." He added that the der the same controls as other 
See COUNCIL, page 8

Dillon Hall President Steve officers, to gather evidence for University had not asked for student organizations . . . that 
CHRONOLOGY OF EVENTS 
January 1988: Sullivan proposes new guidelines to University Spring 1988: Rocca meets with members of the Knights to discuss allocation of funds. Aug.: Supreme Council tells local council to observe Sullivan's and the University's guidelines. Sept. 9: Michigan football game. Steak prices raised to $4. Sept. 21: Feeley meets with' Sullivan and discusses problems. Feeley meets with Student Affairs soon after. Sept. 30: Feeley, Faehner, Coglianese, and York travel to college conference at the Supreme Council in New Haven, Conn. Oct. 1: Steak prices ordered back down to $3 by Feeley and Faehner. Oct. 3: Knights building locked pending investigation by University. Letters and copy of Dulac from Goldrick hand-delievered to officers of the Knights by Security. Oct. 7: Ad hoc committee begins investigation. Oct. 14: Ad hoc committee concludes investigation Nov. 1: Letter from Tyson to officers officially suspends the Knights and outlines other act1ons. 

-----~-----------~ ----~-­
Friday, December 9, 1988 The Observer pageS 
ND Law School opening Legal Clinic for Homeless 
By ANGELA MCDONALD "Unfortunately, there are es­second and third year law stu­News Staff timated to be over one dents, under the supervision of thousand homeless people in Professor Thomas Broden. 
A new center for the home­the South Bend community­The law school recently less, sponsored by the Notre one of the reasons being the hosted a dinner in the fac.ulty Dame Law School, will be lack of low income housing that dining room, which raised over opening in downtown South is available," said Evans. $1300 for the rental of the shel­Bend in the early part of Janu­Among the services to be pro­ter itself. ary. vided are the AlcoholismDrug "The purpose of the Legal
Gregory Evans, a third year Addiction Assistance program, Clinic is to provide legal help law student and director of the Medical Care service and the for homeless people and Legal Clinic for the Homeless, newly formed Legal Assistance families so that they may enjoy said the shelter's main goals program, which is being imple­safe, healthful and decent are to provide not only shelter, mented by the University of housing," Evans said. "For but any legal services that they Notre Dame Law School. many individual families in might need to acquire decent South Bend, the devastatinghousing. Evans, Law School Dean condition of homelessness can 
Evans added that the Legal David Link, and several law be relieved with the assistance Clinic would be providing infor­students said they are trying to of a legal advocate. Our goal is mation for the homeless con­improve the homeless situa­to use the skills we are acquir­cerning other assistance pro­tion. ing in law school to provide grams such as Social Security. The shelter will be staffed by such assistance!' 
Reagan discusses past and future of U.S.-Soviet affairs 
Associated Press forming the Soviet Union into tually the United States would a less threatening nation. have to negotiate "with Iran 
WASHINGTON-President Reagan also said Palestine because they have control of" Reagan said Thursday night Liberation Organization leader the kidnappers. that "extraordinary things" Vasser Arafat did not make a have happened in superpower clear-cut commitment to rec­Concerning the prospect for relations in the last four years, ognize the state of Israel negotiations with Iran, he said, 
Michael Waldstein, visiting assistant professor of the Program of Liberal 
but cautioned that the Soviets despite a statement to that ef­"There are conditions that 
Studies, and friends join Moses in front of the Hesburgh Library in
would retain "superiority" in fect this week. The president have to be met also there. 
declaring the Irish "number one."
conventional weaponry even said Arafat "left himself Anytime that they are ready to after Mikhail Gorbachev's openings" on the subject. come forward on an open basis, troop reduction pledge. we would be ready to talk to 
Amnesty collects 2,100 
"The path remains open and It was Reagan's 46th and pos­them." the pace of peace continues," sibly final news conference as Later, spokesman Marlin cards to aid Fazziethe president said in a president, held in a White Fitzwater elaborated: "We'll nationally-televised news con­House East Room decorated be glad to talk, but we've never 
By JOHN O'BRIEN writing drives have already
ference one day after his fifth with Christmas trees. been able to get them to do 
Staff Reporter been held on his behalf.
and final summit with the So­He began with a quip-"got that." 
According to Farley, Am­

viet leader. to stop meeting like this" -and Reagan sidestepped a ques­Amnesty International of nesty International worksIn a session sprinkled with ended by wishing reporters a tion about the war in Afghanis­Notre Dame-St. Mary's col­"mainly to release politicalcomplimentary references to merry Christmas. tan, saying it would be unac­lected almost 2100 Christmas prisoners" and is famous forhis summit partner, Reagan Asked if there was hope for ceptable to stop arming the Cards this week in an effort to its use of letters written to op­replied, "Yes, I do" when a release of American hostages rebels there unless the Soviet­aid in the release of a political pressive governments in orderquestioner asked whether he held captive in Lebanon, backed regime ended military prisoner being held by the to speed the release of politicalbelieves Gorbachev is trans-Reagan said he thought even-operations. 
South African government. prisoners. According to John Farley, "After a while, a lot of president of Amnesty Interna-countries blow off the mail, but 
Marching band to travel to Fiesta 
tional on campus, the when it comes in quanity, it Christmas Card drive turns their heads," said Far­
represents the organization's ley. largest attempt to have South Amnesty International is or­By LAURA GRITZ James Phillips, assistant direc­bringing everyone back would African prisoner Mutile Henry ganizing the drive with the as­
Bowl, participate in festivities 

News Staff tor of bands. 
Notre Dame's University Band members will leave Marching Band will travel to from their individual homes Arizona to perform at the Dec. 27 and meet at the Em­Fiesta Bowl and its accompa­bassy Suites Hotel in Phoenix nying festivities throughout the that night. Their instruments week. will be sent by truck. 
The band will spend its first 

"We're excited because of two days in Arizona practicing. the success of the team and "We cannot practice here," that we're a part of it," said Phillips said. "The cost of 

AIR TRAVEL 

~ 
IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS TICKETS DELIVERED CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 
,.-~. international 
~~ tours&travel 
117 S. MAIN STREET MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 
be too prohibitive." Fazzie freed. sistance of Student Govern­
On Dec. 30, the group will "We've done some stuff on a ment and the Office of Campus perform at the Fiesta Bowl smaller scale, but this was a Ministry. parade, kickoff luncheon and big drive to let people know "Father Leveille of Campus pageant of bands. The schedule some information about him Ministry gave gave us a lot of for January 1 includes two pep and to generate a lot of cards," help, both financial and by rallies and a rehearsal. Farley said. writing letters to the commu­
At the Fiesta Bowl, January nity service commissioners of 2 in Tempe's Sun Devil This drive is part of a con­each dorm," said Farley. Staduim, the band will perform tinuing effort to have Fazzie, before the game and at half­who is from the eastern cape, Representatives of Amnesty • time. freed. collected signatures through­
Like most universities, Notre "Local groups adopt a pris­out the week in the dining halls Dame usually sends its band to oner, and they work specifi­and in the dorms. bowl games, Phillips said. cally for that prisoner," Farley Mike Denisoff, a member of Notre Dame's opponent, West said. The Notre Dame chapter Amnesty International and the Virginia, is also bringing its "adopted" Fazzie in Septem­representative for Morrissey band to the Fiesta Bowl. ber, 1986 and several letter Manor, was impressed with the 

Microcomputer Lab Consultants 
User Services in the Office of University Computing is seeking applicants for positions as assistant consultants in its campus microcomputer labs for the second semester. All Students with microcomputer hardware and software experience (especially IBM, Zenith, other PC compatible and Apple Macintosh) are encouraged to apply. Interested persons should fill out an application form in the Office of University Computing Library (room 3 of the Computing Center I Math Building) between the hours of 8:00 -12:00 and 1:00-5:00 Monday through Friday. You will be contacted for an interview in January so please respond as soon as possible. 
response he received while col­lecting signatures. 
"I collected about 150 signa­tures within an hour. People did everything from just sig­ning their name to filling up the entire card with writing," Denisoff said. 
Fazzie was arrested in Au­gust 1896 in South Africa's New Brighton Province for his at­tempts to improve the working conditions of black laborers and his work as vice president of the United Democratic Front, a "moderate organiza­tion working to end Apar­theid," said Farley. 


The Observer Friday, December 9, 1988 
U.S.A.F. plane crash kills four in W. Germany 

Associated Press 
REMSCHEID, West Germany-A U.S. Air Force warplane struck an apartment building and exploded in flames Thursday, killing the pilot and at least three other people, injuring more than a dozen, and setting homes on fire. 
"This looks like a war," said Johannes Rau, governor of North Rhine-Westphalia state, after touring the scene in central West Germany. 
Even after the initial explo­sion, ammunition carried on the plane continued to explode periodically, hampering res­cue efforts, one rescuer said. 
The U.S. Air Force suspended all tactical training flights in Europe until Tues­day, and West German aut­horities asked their allies to 
AP Photo halt low-level training missions Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, President Ronald Reagan, and until Christmas. Opposition po­
President-elect George Bush look for their marks on the viewing stand overlooking New Y.ork harbor from Governors Island, Wednesday. The marks were placed by the White House staff to indicate where the leaders should stand for the best picture situation. 
Soviets offer 10 percent army cut 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Mikhail Gor­bachev's offer to cut the Red Army by 10 percent and withdraw 50,000 Soviet troops from Eastern Europe has not fully eased Western worries about a decisive Kremlin edge in men, tanks and artillery. 
Gorbachev's unilateral cuts and message of peace were likely to further enhance his soaring popularity in Western Europe, and to rekindle calls in Congress and NATO mem­ber states for withdrawal of some of the 335,000 U.S. troops in Europe. 
But Secretary of State George Shultz and other foreign ministers of the Atlan­tic alliance quickly said Gor­bachev's statements con­firmed their view that the Soviets. have enough non­nuclear armaments to mount a blitzkrieg offensive and tip the balance in opening days of an East-West conflict. 
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, in a statement issued after Gorbachev's U.N. speech on Wednesday, said "the Soviet Union itself pos­sesses more tanks and artillery than all the other members of the Warsaw Pact and the (NATO) Alliance combined. And they are concentrated in a manner which raises grave concerns about the strategy which they are intended to sup­port." 
NATO secretary-General Manfred Woerner said Gorbac­hev's move "seems to be a step in the right direction," but warned big imbalances would remain. 
West German Defense Mini­ster Rupert Scholz said Gor­bachev must follow up with "actual and verifiable withdrawal of troops and re­duction of forces." 
NATO, which cannot afford to match the Soviets soldier for soldier and tank for tank, has a policy of deterring a conven­tional attack with the threat of nuclear weapons, an approach that wags have summarized as "fight like the devil for two weeks, then blow up the world." 
The NATO nuclear deterrent 
and the perceived will to use it 
has faded, however, with the 
signing last December of a 
U.S.-Soviet treaty to eliminate 
intermediate-range nuclear 
weapons and continuing 
negotiations to sharply reduce 
long-range strategic arms. 

The Soviets have been tinker­ing with their doctrine, as well, declaring that they will main­tain forces adequate only to fend off an attack, not to launch one. 
Dear 6A, 

litical parties demanded a ban on lo~-l~vel flig~ts and sharp cuts m arr exercises. . 
The A-10 Thunderbolt II Jet, 
forces and combat tanks, was about 800 yards from the apart­carrying 1,000 rounds of 30mm ment building. training ammunition when it "The plane rammed into a crashed, said U.S. Air Force building that was right in front Spokesman Lt. Col. Ed Neun­of them. They are home now herz. and they are in shock," he said. 
Witnesses said the plane flew The high school, about 1,300 low over a school and hit the yards away from the crash site, top floor of an apartment build­was not damaged. ing about 1:30 p.m. (7:30a.m. There were conflicting EDT). reports on the number of dead 

and injured. 
Police and military officials 
at the scene earlier told 
reporters six people were con­
firmed dead and that 40 to 50 
were injured. 
But Volker Acksteiner, 
leader of the rescue teams, said 
late Thursday night: "There 
were four bodies. And we sup­
pose that more dead and in­
jured are lying in the rubble." 
Rescuers used dogs to look for possible victims or sur­vivors. 
City councilman Guenther 

"My daughters were coming Krug also told a news confer­home from school. I heard a ence that four people were tremendous blast and rushed killed. He said 15 people were out to find them," said injured, including 11 in serious 
designed to support ground Wolfgang Guenther, who lives condition in nearby hospitals. 
Japanese Finance Minister implicated in financial scandal 
Associated Press 
TOKYO-Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, impl­icated in a stock dealing scandal that damaged the governing party, reportedly resigned Friday to help clear opposition to passage of tax reform bills in parlia­ment. 
Miyazawa submitted his resignation during a resign to take responsibility for repeatedly giving con­flicting accounts about his role in the stock trading con­troversy, and they refused to resume parliamentary debate on the tax reform package until he did so. 
Miyazawa, a two-term finance minister and vet­eran politician, changed ac­counts of his involvement in the stock deals at least three times in his statements to parliamentary committees investigating the scandal. 
The controversy involves questionable purchases of stocks of Recruit Cosmos Co. by dozens of leaders of the governing Liberal Dem­ocratic Party, including Miyazawa, Takeshita and former Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe-Japan's top three politicians. 

meeting with Prime Mini-r;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~;;;~
ster Noboru Takeshita, ac-I1 cording to the reports by the Japan .Broadcasting Corp. and Kyodo News Service. 
Opposition parties had demanded that Miyazawa 


You'll get nothing and like it. 
Santa 

To the guys and gals of Novice Crew 

Set the boat, extend your stroke and remember your Loops! Merry Christmas & Happy New Year Fatboat £2 
,~O~B~LE~M-:::; · 
have flights
PR

!......,; St Mary's studen~ing theY -udent and~ ChicagO· ~ssu s break, 
A. Notre uag,B_~re A-irport \~ute of Chnst::tO get {rorn to catch at enjoY everY ~ n should theY both want toot transpor~at\0 
hat rnode o'l\are. . 1A-irport
w u nd to Reg1ona
South ._,e Michiana 
a) car flight {rorn
rnrnuter 
b) co . dLiroO
) l}o1te 

,soLU1\0~:I<..~v "'·'' 
-arking chargtf tolls and p t answer. d lution. 
Cit'V trai \C• r an incorrec be a goo so d could 
. g by ca ern to h Ben
trave1\O . "b" roaY se in Sout A.nd whl\e kind of delaY worse yet, a ' b r that anY 0'1\.are· Or, well, \et s reroero ~ . g flights at d could roean· .. ean rolss\O. S uth Ben \ 
rn \1 tion \O o . htroare· . , Not on y
0 ce a \db a o1g \ twns· 
~a t saY it cou e d "c " congratu ad of transporta· JUS were ' . ble roo e d the 
l{ you ans roost re1\a west {are an . \Jnited Liroo t~ealso offers the.\~\ point {or the \S 0'1\.are, \ e/arr\V \ in no
tion to . nt departur \ 'This resu ts
venle · Circ e. ' 
roost con .,..,D MalO { h students
the l" . t e
tudents • ·roizat\0° 0 
s d roaXl 
hassles an . "roent·
enl0 • 

Why learn this lesson the hard way? Ifyou need to get to O'Hare, 
count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. Call674-6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent. 
United Limo 
We'll Get You There 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that you make reservations at least 24 hours in ad\·ance. 


Friday, December 9, 1988 
--~ 


AP Photo

A night on the town 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and Soviet First Lady Raisa Gor­bachev make their entrance at a United Nations reception held in their honor in New York. 

TROPHIES & SPORTSWEAR 
Trophies • Awards • Screen Printing Embroidery • Advertising Specialties Bowling Supplies • Uniforms 
• Jackets • Caps 
2531 Llncolnway West Mishawaka 259-0014 
SAVE AN EXTRA 10% ON ALL TROPHIES & AWARDS WITH THIS AD 
~-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-. 
~ 
!:; ..7l 
~ -~ r'UC4"FQf'ft_
: I I ~1.,1 .,~ 
~ Bank 
~ 
~ ~ 
~I ~ GET AYEAR-END BONUS 
I 
~ 7.97! 7.75~ I 
I 
~ 
I 
~ ~ ~ I~ ~ 
~ 
~ .... rf'tlO£'£, 
~ l pi' 
~ MON'f\\ I 0~uscQ
I B 
~ 
II ~~~5~~d M;;~~~~\"' ~~~~~; Do..~~;;2~khart 
~ 
~ ~~~~m~~J~~~~:':~~=I:s~~~~~·~~~';;;";~n~~~ 
~ CD. but fixed once opened. ~ © 1988, Trustcorp Bank, South Bend Member FDIC. 
............................................................................................, ......., ...... 
I~ ~ I 
Give yourself a year-end bonus by investing in a three ~ 
month Certificate of Deposit at Trustcorp Bank right now. With as little as $t,r.ro, you can earn the bonus rate of 7.75'X, with an annual yield of 7.97%. What a great way to end the year. Maximize your investment with a three month bonus CD at Trustcorp Bank. 
For your convenience, Trustcorp Bank is open on Saturdays during this busy holiday season. For great rates on investments, low rates on loans, conven­
i~r~•ts~:;~;: ~~~k'\~~~~~ customer service. stop into 
The Observer page7 

U.S. helicopter crashes in Honduras, five Americans die 

Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras­A U.S. military helicopter par­ticipating in maneuvers crashed in northern Honduras on Thursday, killing all five Americans aboard, a U.S. em­bassy official said. 
Embassy spokesman Charles Barclay said the CH-47 Chinook helicopter crashed at 1 p.m. (2 p.m. EST) near La Ceiba, 235 miles north of Tegucigalpa. 
Barclay refused to identify the victims until their relatives are notified. 
He said the helicopter was based at Palmerola Air Base, 48 miles north of Tegucigalpa, 
the capital. Officials at Pal­authorities were at the site in­merola refused comment. vestigating the cause of the Barclay said U.S. military . crash. 
80 m.p.h. winds hit Los Angeles as fires destroy at least 25 homes 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-The dreaded Santa Ana winds raked the region Thursday with gusts up to 80 mph, fanning fires that destroyed 25 homes and damaged Rose Parade floats. 
About two dozen homes and buildings also were damaged by the blazes but no serious in­juries were reported, . aut­horities said. Gusts toppled .six trucks on highways to the east and cut power to more tban 300,000 people. 
"We lost everything-the 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
I ~ ~ 
I ~ 
I 
I ~ 
~ 
jjil 
~ 
Ill! 
!~ ! ~ 
!:; 
~ 
!:; ~ 
!:; home, the only thing salvaged 
i....-.I'IIUiiiiiiiiii(2fM:M,-=19t;-=34-411T'd~06;n-iiiiiiiiiiiiiii=-from-th-eru-ins.---. 
~ 
APGraphic 
house, the cars," said Dan Han­lon, 49, of La Verne, who fled with his wife. "We were lucky to get out. We had to drive through flames." 
Generated by high pressure over Idaho and a low over Baja California, winds swept much of California and Nevada but were most destructive in the Los Angeles basin and to the east where they roar down from the desert through the mountain ranges and become known as the Santa Anas. 
Fifteen homes burned up and five commercial buildings were damaged in Baldwin Park, 20 miles northeast of Los Angeles, when 75 mph gusts snapped power lines shortly 
after midnight and ignited a 
fire at Allan Paper Co. 
LINCOLNWOOD 0 
3300 Lw.w. (US 20) 
open 24 houns LOW daily, -'dv. group & 
~~~= 
Richard A MeR '60 
~ 
"Five people were on board the helicopter," Barclay said. "Up to now only four bodies have been recovered from the craft, which was practically destroyed." 
Honduran and U.S. military personnel formed a search team "to look for the other body" in the area, he said. 
Barclay said the Chinoo, which took off earlier Thursday from Palmerola, was flying a supply mission and taking part in joint Honduran-U.S. military exercises. 
About 1,500 American troops are in Honduras, including 1,100 soldiers permanently sta­tioned at Palmerola. Others rotate during the year for train­ing exercises, military con­struction work and other proj­ects. 
"We saw sparks, showers of sparks, like rain," said Ruben Cabadas, 18, recounting his family's flight from their home as its ruins smoldered. 
The blaze was contained at daybreak, said Inspector Chuck Gutierrez of the Los An­geles County Fire Department. There was no damage esti­mate. 
Ten homes were destroyed and 15 damaged in La Verne, 30 miles east, by a fire believed caused by a downed power line, Gutierrez said. About 300 people were evacuated before the 150-acre blaze was con­tained. 
"It literally rained embers across roofs," said firefighter Ron Sillo. 
An artificial Christmas tree wrapped in colored lights and tinsel lay on the driveway of Roy and Elinor Livingston's 

1!!!11••••••••1•••••••1•IIIII!IMI•••·•••••••••n••ICIIII!I••:~;•••••r••••J••••••II!• 
COMING-SECOND SEMESTER­CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES 
-speakers: 

Katherine Tillman, Regina Coli, Drew Christiansen, Eugene Gorski, Michael Himes, 
Mark your calendars. Sign up in January, Campus Ministry Office 
January 29 and 31 February 5 and 7 February 12 and 14 
February 19 and 21 February 26 and 28 
Friday, December 9, 1988

pageS The Observer 
Council 
Continued from page 4 
beginning of the 1989-90 aca­demic year as a "new organization" to the Office of Student Activities. 
The letter from Tyson to the Knights officers stated that the guidelines would be amended to show the Knights as under the supervision of Rocca. 
According to Joseph Cassidy, director of student activies, the Knights' constituion on file would have to be revised and updated. An advisor who is a full time faculty member or ad­ministrator must also be on file, said Cassidy. 
Also under Rocca's jurisdic­tion are such organizations as the Alumni-Senior Club and the University Marching Band. "I don't foresee being more in­volved that for the other organ­izations," said Rocca. 
Knights Field Consutant Richard Scheiber spoke with Rocca at the beginning of the investigation. Scheiber said that the Supreme Council is looking into the matter, but these investigations can move at "glacial speed sometimes." 
The Knights of Columbus building remains closed, with keys available only through Tyson's office, according to University Maintenance. Ac­cording to Rocca, it "remains to be determined" how the building will be used "or if they will regain total, complete, use." 
The Knights were originally granted the use of the building by then-University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, said York. York added that the University reserved the right to remove the Knights from the building "if the mission of the Knights conflicts with the mis­sion of the University," accor­ding to a letter from Hesburgh to the Knights. 
The Knights officers, however, are still displeased with the University suspension. "A lot of people have been trying to find out what's going on. It's really over with for this year," said Faehner. "We ap­pealed the decision, but were told that they would not recon­sider and that the decision stands." 
But Scott Berg was more regretful than angry. 
"The Knights of Columbus were capable of good things ... they donated to many worthy organizations. It's a shame it had to stop. " 

Palestinian uprising stirs response at Notre Dame 
By MICHAEL WELLS "They're not just these people Staff Reporter toting guns." Father David Burrell, a 
Today marks the one-year Notre Dame professor of The­anniversary of the "intifada," ology and Philosophy who the grassroots Palestinian spent two years at the uprising which has resulted in Ecumenical Institute in over 300 deaths in the West Jerusalem called the intifada a Bank and Gaza Strip regions. "popular uprising ," and com­
Israel's handling of the revolt pared Israel's situation and has brought it widespread response to that of South criticism in the international Mrica. arena. Several members of the "Intifada" is an Arabic word Notre Dame com unity have fol­meaning "to shake off." lowed the crisis closely, and He added that the U.S. stood 
would like to see a change in alone in supporting the Israeli . 
U.S. attitudes as well. position. 
Liz Reeves, a graduate stu­According to Burrell, one of dent of Lebanese ancestry, said the few leaders giving direction of the situation of the Pales­to the uprising has been tinians living in the occupied Mubarak Awad, who has been territories, "These are people trying to keep the resistance who are deprived of life, liber­non-violent. ty, and the pursuit of happi­A wad was on campus several ness." weeks ago to participate in a 
"We'd like to promote a cul­Law School-sponsored debate tural awareness of the Pales­on the Palestinian conflict, said tinian people," she continued. 
Reeves. 


AP Photo A demolished house and a wrecked automobile in Caucasus Mountains region in 80 years. The quake the town of Spitak, Armenia, Wednesday, after the caused widespread havoc and several thousand 
area was hit by the strongest earthquake to hit the casualties. 
Friday and Saturday were declared days of mourning in
Quake 
Armenia. 

continued from page 1 
Soviet TV and the newspaper 
coverage by the state-run Komsomolskaya Pravda re­
media was unprecedented in its ported from Leninakan that 
speed and scope. preliminary estimates were 
Ryzhkov, head of an that tens of thousands of people 
earthquake commission, told were killed. 
Soviet television the main task Foreign Minister spokesman 
before authorities is to search Vadim Perfiliev said aut­
the rubble for the injured and horities were having difficulty 
dead. calculating a death toll because 
He then turned directly communications with the 
toward the camera and made region were severed. 
an unusual appeal to factory Komsomolskaya Pravda 
and business officials nation­said soldiers were working un­
wide not to wait to be asked, der spotlights in the wreckage 
but to start immediately sen­of a Leninakan school. It said 
ding heavy cranes, helicopters two sergeants pulled the bodies 
and other equipment to the of more than 50 children from 
stricken area.
-------------t 
~--------------------~ 
the ruins and that only a few children had been found alive in the collapsed building. 
Soldiers were setting up tent cities to house evacuees in the devastated regions, and restor­ing electricity and water sup­plies, army Gen. Vladimir Arkhipov told Tass. Bonfires burned in the shattered cities to warm the homeless in the December chill. 
The newspaper Izvestia re­ported the population of Ar­menia has risen markedly in recent weeks as settlers fled vi­olent ethnic strife between Ar­menians, who are mostly Chr­istian, and predominantly Moslem Azerbaijanis. 


"Thanks for Sharing ..... " 
FIESTA BOWL 
Complete Travel Package 
$ hotel, rental carand more. See details in large ad elsewhere in this issue. Gameticketnotincfuded. 
Premier PasSports 
The Official Travel Agency of the World Champion Los Angeles Lakers 
1-800-777-3643 

GO ND SWIMMERS!!!! 
Plane 
Tooways to dmrnte continued from page 1 of T & G Aviation, hot the 

\\rtstforClnistirns.
federal government. A woman who answered the telephone at T & G Aviation in 
\ \

Chandler said: "We don't have 
•

any information to give out on that at this time." 
The Moroccan sources said officials were trying to locate the downed plane's wreckage, which they said could have scattered over a wide area. 
The embassy spokesman in Rabat said the second airplane 
December 12-14th 
arrived in Sidi Ifni, about 240 
MON-TUES-WED
miles south of Agadir. North and South Dining Halls 
5:00-6:30om 
For the low ,low price of:
SObering 
$26.95!
Advice .·· ~ 
We accept CASH or CHECK
can~.~·· 
for this great Christmas gift!
alffe ~ · 
Ail 

The Notre Dame SPORTSWATCH 
.r-··· 

Made by the manufacturers of SWATCH 



Friday, December 9, 1988 
Three black leaders given jail in S. Africa 
Associated Press 
PRETORIA, South Africa-A judge, Thursday, sentenced three black leaders of the country's biggest anti­apartheid group to what he called lenient jail terms of· 10 and 12 years for treason. 
Anglican Archbishop Des­mond Tutu joined other ac­tivists in condemning as "vi­cious" the sentencing at the close of a controversial three­year trial in which the nation­wide coalition United Demo­cratic Front was declared a revolutionary organization. 
Tutu also accused the gov­ernment of "playing games" by moving jailed African Na­tional Congress leader Nelson Mandela to a house on a prison farm. 
"Mr. Mandela is still a pris­oner," said Tutu. "Let the gov­ernment release him and all other political prisoners uncon­ditionally. Then they will see the enormous influence for good, for peace and reconcilia­tion that he will be." 
U.S. ambassador Edward Perkins was among several diplomats at Pretoria Supreme Court. In a statement, his em­bassy said the sentences were "not as harsh as they might have been" but regrettable be­cause those convicted were "men of good will working peacefully for a non-racial democracy." 
Patrick Lekota, 40, a spokes­man for the front, was sen­tenced to 12 years; 10-year terms were given to its national secretary Popo Molefe, 36, and Moses Chikane, 40, the Transvaal Province branch secretary; church field worker Thomas Manthata, 48, was sen­tenced to six years' jail, also for treason. 
Seven other defendants were convicted of terrorism. Six received suspended sentences and were banned for two years from talking to the press or participating in politics. The seventh is to serve five years in jail. 

Former University President Father Theodore Hes­able a few years ago, is evidence of Soviet leader burgh says he was invited to celebrate Mass during Mikhail Gorbachev's regard for human rights, said a recent visit to the Soviet Union. The event, unthink-Hesburgh. 
Soviet soldiers work to rescue trapped in quake 
In Kirovakan and Spitak, two viturally every multistory
Associated Press 
other northwestern Armenia building was damaged and 
MOSCOW-Soldiers working towns hit hard by Wednesday's telephone communication was 
desperately under spotlights in devastating earthquake, there cut off from the outside world. 
a nighttime effort pulled a few were more crumbled buildings, 
survivors from the earthquake­and more casualties. The news showed a man in 
shattered School No. 9 in the one unidentified city putting his 
town of Leninakan. Mostly, Soviet TV showed Prime . hands over his head in grief as 
though, they found only the Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov's he stood amid a collapsed
dead. visit to the cities, where building. 
S.B. female attacked behind Sacred Heart 
Observer Staff Report 
Wednesday at 8:45 p.m., an 18-year-old female resi" dent of South Bend was as­suited by two black males according to Notre Dame Security. 
She was assulted behind 
u~tWt'LL 
CHINESE-AIIEIICU RESTAUIAIIT 
~s.chuM, lbndarln a HuMn Culllnel 
Lunches starting at _____ $3.45 Dinners starting at ______ $4.95 Bestcnuant open 7 days 
Mon.-Thuta.ll:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-Sut.ll:30 am to II pm SUD. &Holidaya 11:30 am to 10 J)Dl 
130 Dixie Hwy.• Roaelcmd (aext to Randall's ban) 

Sacred Heart Church on the pathway that leads to the Grotto. She was approached by two black males aged be­tween 18 and 21, words were exchanged, and then one male struck her. The men fled and she was not seriously injured. 

-riESfAllliWL 
Package Includes 
*GAME TICKET (sideline seats available) *3 or 4 nights accomodations *Pregame Brunch and Party *2 Nights of Cocktails *ONE Breakfast *All gratuities and baggage handling *Transportation to and from the Phoenix Airport and Game 
Call Diamond Travel (Phoenix Arizona) 
~--s~=-~•:•·m~•1~:•:•d~----~--­
One of the assailants was described as a 5'11" black male in a Notre Dame jacket and a Notre Dame baseball caP.. The other was des­cribed as a 6'1" black male dressed in a sweatshirt. 
Free-trade talks suspended 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL-Trade negotiators agreed Thursday to postpone decisions on free­trade proposals for four months after it became clear that a stalemate over farm sub­sidies could derail fragile ac­cords on other issues. 
The agreement, subject to ratification by cabinet minis­ters on Friday, will avert the collapse of the talks by giving time for the United States and the European Economic Com­munity to compromise on the complex and emotional issue of agricultural subsidies and bar­riers. 
"Time heals a lot of wounds. In this situation, time provides additional opportunities for creative thinking," U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeut­ter said. 
Willy de Clercq, the EEC's commissioner for trade and ex­ternal affairs, said he was ''prudently optimistic'' that the April meeting would produce an agreement. 
"On the one side I'm disap­pointed because we did not achieve the results we came for. On the other side, I think there has been a good job here" in areas other than agriculture, de Clercq said. 


------------~------~ --------­
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, December 9, 1988 
A true celebration of Christmas 
As Christmas nears, it is easy to get fed up with the anti-commercialism cant that is preached from soap boxes or their equivalent on every street cor­ner and moralized by the moralists at every turn. But let's face it, the chal­lenge that confronts most of us at Notre Dame these days is how to be Christians in a bourgeois world. And the Christmas weeks make this painfully evident. 
Thomas D'Andrea 
inside out 
We know that Christmas is more than gifts and good spirits, and sleeping late and dumping the laundry on Mom, and cruising the town with high school friends, and marathons of television, and too much to eat and too little exer­cise. Or do we? Of course we do. But how do we know this? What kind of knowledge do we possess? 
There is a convenient and helpful dis­tinction one can make between objec­tive and subjective knowledge: the former just sits there, passive and inert--it is cerebral, mere information. The latter is knowledge that is integra­ted into the totality of one's being; it structures, informs and gives insight into the practice of one's life. It is not strictly knowledge that conditions the way one acts. And this subjective knowledge is a very potent thing; it has changed the course of lives of individ­uals, of peoples, of entire civilizations. 
Returning to Christmas can we not say that the diffuiculty for us is to know what the birth of Christ is all about in a more than objective way? The cor­ruption of the best is the worst, as the old axiom says. What could be worse than a purely objective knowledge of the coming of God into our world? What is more maddeningly banal than a season in which a host of symbols and symbolic acts, orchestrated so as to enshrine the significance of this most singular event in cosmic history, is mis­taken for a mere customary sequence of events we "experience" every year from early in December to early J anu­ary? 
Such is the case for a Christmas in bourgeoisdom, for a Christmas where the holiday serves as an occasion for intensified and joyless comfort-seeking (which always adds up to intensified selfishness), and where the weight of the very small material things around us oppresses our spirit and veils from us as a heavy cloak the glory of the coming of our King. 
But Christmas is not that way in Christendom and it never will be. And where is Christendom? Christendom is not a country, it is not the Church in its visible and hierarchical structure, it is not a culture or civilization that once was, like Hapsburg Spain or the Holy Roman Empire. It is that ever-fluid, ever-dynamic community with out geo­graphical bounds comprised of all those citizens of this earth, in their diverse races, nations, and cultures, in whom the law of Christ, and thus the peace and joy of Christ, reigns. And because, for now, the kingdom of God is not a place but within us (Christ himself said so), it is only in Christendom, that vast twilight habitation between time and eternity, that Christmas is truly appre­ciated so as to be truly celebrated. 
The choice is ours: will ours be a de­partment store Christmas where the season once again slips by without us beginning to comprehend the sig­nificance of its central event? Or will we really know our King this time when He comes, mixing his Divinity with our clay so as to make holy again a world spotted by sin? If we really know what Christmas is about, we will struggle once more to make room for the reign of the kingdom of God within us--Christ does not belong in a cave. Quite simply this means we will give Christ the King and his laws, which are not burdensome but bring freedom, more dominion over the practice of our lives. 
Thomas D. D'Andrea is a graduate stu­dent in philosophy and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Engineers defend their integrity 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing this letter to address the Inside column of Dec. 2 "Engineers should take an ethics course." To agree with a well known stereotype that en­gineers are not excellent writers, please bear with us. However, to dis­agree with the stereotype presented in the aforementioned article, engineer­ing students are in no way more uneth­ical than any other students at the Uni­versity. 
We will not deny that cheating occurs in the College of Engineering, but we would like to voice the opinion of the majority of engineering students who work diligently and honestly towards their degree. As in any other college, engineering students work together on various projects and assignments to en­sure we understand the material in the courses. Copying verbatim is not one of our policies. 
Indeed, it would be sad to see a des­perate engineering student "rooting through trash cans for computer pro­grams to copy verbatim." However, to address the writer's question: no, we have not figured out how many equa­tions we can "jam" into a program­mable HP. We have neither the time nor the desire to do so in order to have a dishonest advantage over our fellow engineers. 
Finally, we find little analogy be­tween the accidents of the cases the writer mentioned and cheating in engineering. In the Ford Pinto case, er­ror in the gasoline tank design was dis­covered in testing before production. It was upper management who decided that an improved design was more costly than human life. Similarly, in the 
Doonesbury 
A7D aircraft brake case, a projects manager, with only a high school diplo­ma, and upper management prevented a rookie engineer from correcting a flaw in another engineer's design. Maybe if the engineers had worked to­gether to correct the problem before it got out of hand, the scandal never would have occurred. 
Thus, it is a shame that some students in all colleges at the University resort to cheating. However, we found the ar­ticle's accusations extreme. As en­gineers, yes, we have a heavy workload. Yes, we usually need to work harder than the average college stu­dent. Yes, we are honest students that came to the University of Notre Dame to learn. Unfortunately, the writer of this article has not learned respect for the majority of his fellow engineers. 
Shaun Patterson Cheryl Gomez Joanie Bott John McMahon Stephanie Tolstedt Scott Thiele Timothy Sutton Chris Shey Kellie Hann Dec. 7, 1988 
Thanks to Fazzie card-signers 
Dear Editor: 

On behalf of Amnesty International, we are writing to thank all students, faculty, and staff, for their recent sup­port of our Christmas card campaign. Over 2,100 cards were sent to our pris­oner of conscience, Henry Mutile Fazzie, who has been imprisoned in South Africa for over two years without charge or trial. We hope that these cards will prompt a response form the South African government. At the least, we hope that the cards provide a lift for Mr. Fazzie as he spends his third consecutive Christmas in jail. 
While all those who signed cards deserve thanks, a few people deserve special recognition. The Amnesty com­mittee which handled the event did an excellent job, and the support of all AI members was invaluable. The aid of the Center for Social Concerns was cri­tical to our success, as was the help of the dorm social service commissioners. We would also like to thank student gov­ernment for its support of the event, and Fr. Malloy for endorsing our proj­ect. 
A final thank-you is given to Campus Ministry, and in particular Fr. Leveille for his support. Fr. Leveille and his or­ganization were truly instrumental in sponsoring the Christmas card drive, as well as in having cards distributed and signed at dorm masses. 
Our only regret is that we did not have more cards available. We apologize to all those who wished to sign cards but couldn't, since all had already been sent. We were simply overwhelmed by the campus response. 
Kevin J. Mundy John J. Farley Coordinators Amnesty International Dec. 8, 1988 
Intifada resistance continues 
Dear Editor: 
Exactly one year ago today the Pal­estinian uprising, the Intifada, began. The Intifada is a non-violent resistance movement, in the spirit of the Anti­Apartheid movement in South Africa. With it has come a new Palestinian self­awareness, a realization that, although deprived of their rights, their property and even their lives, they can still main­tain their dignity, their identity, and 
Garry Trudeau 

ACfJMMON 5URPR/51NGL-Y
tu&Ll., YOU 

...UK£ URG8. BUTtve.R£ RiGHT. /...11<£/A/HAF
NIC13... Nia I Ft3E.L­
{)()lNG YOUHAV/370
7H/55El!M5 
\

j T088CALM­AN{) NATURAL-... UI<&... L-IKC... 
IT IN FIGHT -INGH&R IN FACT, I PU&IC! fTl 
• {)OJ.I/N. LIJV8 IT! 
I 

,~ 
I
~ 

their dream of freedom. In the past year, 384 Palestinians were killed (some buried alive), thousands have been jailed, others deported, and many others maimed and crippled by beatings administered by the Israeli authorities. (Amnesty International has condemned this violence, much of which goes unquestioned by the govern­ment.) 
In support of the Intifada, the PLO issued the Algiers declaration of a Pal­estinian state, publicly recognized the United Nations' resolutions previously cited as a prerequisite to peace negotia­tions, condemned terrorism, and, as of Dec. 7, explicitly recognized the state of Israel. 
Israel and the US have responded negatively. Mr. Shamir has flatly refused to speak to the PLO. The United States has been unsupportive of an in­ternational conference under the aus­pices of the UN and has denied Mr. Arafat a visa. 
Meanwhile, the Intifada goes on. Meanwhile, the United States continues its unwaivering support of Israel, in the form of $3.7 billion, mostly in military aid, given freely each year. 
These are the realities of the Intifada. This is the challenge to the Notre Dame community this Christmas season. Will the new year bring another $3.7 billion to finance another 384 deaths, to break more bones and destroy more homes and lives? Will the new year bring an­other rejection of Mr. Arafat's peace initiative? Will it be another year under occupation for the Palestinians, deprived of the most basic human rights? The Intifada has offered us a 
challenge. courage to  Now accept.  we  must  find  the  
Liz Reeves Siegfried Hall Dec. 8, 1988  

Quote of the Day 
"0 morning stars to­gether-Proclaim thy holy birth! And praises sing to God and the king, And peace to men on earth." 
"0 Little Town of Bethlehem" Phillips Brooks 

Viewpoint
Friday, December 9, 1988 page 11 
Defense of University apartheid policy 
Developing convictions that lead to action, especially action that leads to a better life for the less fortunate, is at the heart of our educational mission here at the University of Notre Dame. Those who take the time and effort to volunteer at Logan Center, work at the center for the homeless, tutor young students, demonstrate for worthy causes, serve the elderly and partici­pate in the numerous other activities for justice and charity are those who make Notre Dame the great commu­nity that it is. We need more, not less, of these activities. 
Oliver Williams 
guest column 
It is often the case that people of good will analyze a situation differently, per­haps focusing on different features of the same experience, and thus adv­ocate different strategies for resolu­tion. This is surely the case when it comes to a reality as complex as apar­theid in South Africa. Examining the ethical literature, it is clear that there are two major responses proposed by moralists in regard to foreign invest­ments in South Africa. One school of thought advocates total withdraw I of all foreign investments from South Africa; another argues for maintaining invest­ment as long as that investment ad­vances the cause of blacks, which is the dismantling of apartheid. There are reputable scholars writing on both sides of this issue throughout the United States. The debate goes on in the U.S. Congress, on campuses across the na­tion, and amongst the religious leaders, business executives and concerned citizens. 
I wish I could say that my position, selective divestment, is the absolutely true one. Of course, I cannot. It may be that in trying to eliminate such a complex reality as apartheid there is no one Christian strategy, but rather a plurality of strategies, each contribu­ting to the dismantling of that horrible system. History will finally be the judge. Meanwhile, I argue and work for what I judge to be the truth. 
In this light, it is with some sadness that I read Professor Peter W alshe writing in a style recently character­ized by one campus journalist as one where conspiracies are "more impor­tant than issues" ("Search For Divest­ment, Not Conspiracies," Scholastic, Nov.l7, 1988). The really sad dimension to all of this is that the methods of Pro­fessor Walshe seem to betray the lack of any sense of the colleagueship so es­sential to a vital community of scholars. To this day, Professor Walshe has never asked me, Professor Lee Tavis, or Father Hesburgh--the three targets of his articles this fall--our ver­sion of the facts. Considering this be­havior, to read Professor Walshe's let­ter criticizing The Observer for not checking with him before the Armstrong remarks were published would be humorous if it were not so sad. ("Shell Affair Raises Ethical Questions," The Observer, Dec. 5 ). 
The September issue of Common Sense makes some remarkable state­ments. From the article by Professor Walshe, we learn: 
"A leaked corporate report that has come into my possession shows that Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, Rev. Oliver Williams (Associate Provost) and Prof. 
Lee Tavis (Business School) are now in collusion with Shell..." 
"A key instrument for undermining church and university support for sanc­tions is to be a Shell-sponsored institute at Notre Dame." 
These are very serious accusations. These statements are all false, and I could have demonstrated that had I been asked. I outlined my understand­ing of the truth of the matter in a View­point column of Oct. 7. In that article I made it clear that no one at the Uni­versity was working with Shell or Pagan International on any project and that absolutely no funds had been dis­cussed, promised or accepted from ' anyone for a Center on South Africa. Professor W alshe responded in the Oc­tober issue of Common Sense that indeed such discussions had taken place and that money was promised ("corporate funds were made available for the Notre Dame Project"), imply­ing that the agent of Shell was none other than James Armstrong, former Methodist bishop of Indiana and past president of the National Council of Churches. 
Professor Armstrong, presently a faculty member at the Iliff School of Technology in Colorado, did meet with Father Hesburgh on June 9, 1988, and at that time made a suggestion that the Notre Dame Institute of International Peace Studies consider a Center on South Africa. Armstrong relayed to Fa­ther Hesburgh the consensus of et­hicists at two brainstorming sessions held in 1987 that a Center might be help­ful for the conflict in RSA. lfesburgh agreed to raise the issue with the In­stitute for International Peace Studies. Armstrong also noted that, since no fun­ding was available, Hesburgh would have to take on that challenge. Father Hesburgh made no promises but did agree to raise the Center possibility and think more about the matter. 
Is Professor Walshe correct in his im­plication that James Armstrong is an agent of Shell? Armstrong vigorously denies such a claim, writing: "Walshe's statement: 'Notre Dame is cooperating with a Shell campaign to take pressure off South Africa and to establish an Institute for the Study of Post-Apartheid Problems' is, to put it bluntly, a lie." Professor Armstrong has had a long history of church lead­ership and work for the poor as a bishop and as a layman. Author of numerous religious publications and recipient of seven honorary degrees, he now directs a center for conflict resolution based in a seminary. Until I see some evidence to the contrary, I believe Professor Armstrong. 
In the Dec. 5 Observer piece, Profes­sor W alshe finally presents to his readers the evidence that convinces him that Professor Armstrong is Shell's agent and that Shell is offering funding for a Center on South Africa. The evidence, we are told, is a Feb. 9, 1988, letter from James Armstrong to Father Hesburgh. The quote from James Armstrong's letter that Professor Walshe believes makes the case is this: "I am no longer with Pagan Interna­tional, the conflict resolution firm in Washington through which corporate funds were made available to pursue the Notre Dame project." 
What James Armstrong is saying here is what he has said any number of times and in his letter to Common Sense: that at one time he was a part-time consultant to Pagan International and in that capacity pursued a long­time dream of his to see a Center for South African Conflict Resolution es­tablished at a U.S. university. What he calls "the Notre Dame project" has also been labeled an Emory, Howard, and various other projects; the minutes of the brainstorming sessions show that several schools might well be invited to consider the Center idea. If Professor W alshe had asked, I would have pro­vided some fifty pages of documents and some interpretation to put sen­tences in a context. I was a member of the brainstorming sessions and had first-hand familiarity with the strengths, weaknesses and origins of the Center idea. Armstrong is not an agent of Shell. As he says in his letter to Common Sense: "My views on South Africa are well documented and were not dictated by Shell, Pagan, or anyone else." Armstrong pursued his Center idea before, during and after working as a consultant for Pagan Interna-
I wish I could say that my
·position, selective divestment, is the abso­lutely true one. Of course, I cannot ... His­tory will be the final judge. Meanwhile, I argue and work for what I judge to be the truth. 
tionaf. 

On the questions of funds for the pro­posed Center, it was always clear in the brainstorming sessions that there were none available and that they must be raised. The minutes of the Oct. 1987 brainstorming session indicate this in several places. 
Professor Walshe makes another remarkable statement in the Dec. 5 Ob­server letter. He writes: "Without my serendipitous receipt of a considerable amount of documentation--minutes and letters--Williams and Armstrong's at­tempt to mislead Notre Dame might well have succeeded." Whom does he think sent him the documentation? In June 1988 Father Hesburgh, as chair of the Board of the Institute, asked Pro­fessor John Gilligan, Director of the In­stitute for International Peace Studies, to think about the feasibility of a Center on South Africa. He provided Gilligan with some documentation giving back­ground to the Center idea. These docu­ments were not considered confidential and, in fact, were provided so that Gil­ligan might share them with interested faculty. The purpose of sending the documentation was to allow the faculty to decide the merits of the Center sug­gestion. It certainly is fair for Professor Walshe to judge that the Center sug­gestion is flawed, but it is ludicrous to say that he discovered a conspiracy using as evidence the very documents provided by the so-called conspirators. 
The sad fact is, according to Profes­sor Gilligan, Professor Walshe has never spoken to Gilligan about the doc­uments since they were given to him, and thus Walshe has had little oppor­tunity to understand a context. For ex­ample, Gilligan assures me that he was told from the start that no funding was available and it would have to be raised. 
Before publishing a version of 
"facts," most scholars would have con­sulted with some of those listed as pres­ent at the brainstorming sessions or others involved. If Professor Walshe had so consulted, he could not have written as he did. For the record, et­hicists at the brainstorming sessions in­cluded Father David Hollenbach, S.J., of Woodstock Center at Georgetown University; Father Rollins Lambert, Advisor for African Affairs and Human Rights Issues for the U.S. Catholic Con­ference; Robert Benne, of Roanoke School of Theology; Jon Gunneman, of Emory University Divinity School; Prakash Sethi, of City University of New York; Peter Storey, of the South African Council of Churches; Philip Wogaman, Wesley theological Semi­nary, and me. All those participating in the brainstorming sessions were not present as representatives of institu­tions but only as scholars with some competence in ethics or South African affairs. Incidentally, at least two of the above are strong proponents of eco­nomic sanctions. 
One of the central tenets of Professor Walshe's conspiracy theory has a logic which continues to escape me. He argues that the Center is supposedly conceived to "shift the atten­tion....away from sanctions and the boycott of Shell products to the prob­lems of a post-apartheid society." The sort of Center discussed in the two brainstorming sessions I was a part of would do no such thing. 
The best illustration of common sense that I have found in all of this discussion was that contained in the Nov. 17, 1988, Scholastic editorial "Stay Away From Conspiracy Hunting." In this light, I think that it is important to say that the administration of the University has not ignored the apartheid problems in South Africa. Father Malloy serves on the board of the South African Edu­cation Programs of the Institute of In­ternational Education. This group, chaired by Harvard President Derek Bok, responding to black South African leaders, raises funds and places hundreds of black South Africans in graduate programs in U.S. univer­sities. Notre Dame has had some of these students in our graduate school. Our law school educates some South Africans in a graduate program on civil rights. Under the sponsorship of Provost Timothy O'Meara, with the Student Activities Board, several im­portant programs of The Year of Cul­tural Diversity focus on South-Africa. Along with two major black leaders, I have accepted an invitation to join the three-person National Advisory Coun­cil to the 66 U.S. companies still oper­ating in South Africa. Our role as ad­visors will be to offer advice to the companies on how they might be more effective in dismantling apartheid in South Africa. This mission will take me to South Africa in February to examine the current situation first-hand and to reappraise my position. 
Are all these endeavors enough? As we prepare ourselves this Advent to celebrate the birth of Christ, we are reminded that we can all do more for justice. Let's all pray that we all have a blessed Christmas with our loved ones and that we never forget, in word and deed, the least advantaged both in our own communities and in South Africa. 
Rev. Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., is the Associate Provost of the University. 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Ed1tor-m-Ch1el Managmg Ed1tor  Chns Murphy Chris Donnelly  Bus1ness Manager Advert1sing Design Manager  John Oxnder Molly K1llen  
News Ed1tor  Reg1s Cocc1a  Advertising Manager  linda Goldschmidt  
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of  News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  Product1on Manager  Bernadene Sh1lts  
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa~nt Mary's College It does not necessar~ly reflect the pohc1es of  V1ewpomt Ed1tor  Man Slaughter  Systems Manager  Mark Ridgeway  
the adm~n1strat1on of e1ther 1nst1tut1on The news IS reported as accurately and obJeCtively as  Sports Ed1tor  Marty Strasen  Controller  Todd Hardiman  
poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tor~als represent the op1mon of the maJOrity ot the Ed1t0r1al Board  Accent Ed1tor  Beth Healy  Graph1c Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentaries. leners and the 1ns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column  Saint Mary's Ed1tor  Sandy Cerimele  
space IS available to all members of the commumty and the free express1on of vary1ng  Photo Ed1tor  M1chael Moran  
op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged.  Founded November 3,1966  



FIESTA BOWL 
'fear not brave roadtrippers...' 

JOHN BLASI assistant accent editor 


Just think ... in less than a week finals will be over, Christmas will be on its way and the 

moment when the Irish face the Mountaineers in the Fiesta Bowl will be only 17 days away. 
If most of the Notre Dame roadtrippers are as prepared as I am for the bowl game they have already obtained their plane reservations and are presently scrambling around for hotel reservations. The last thing they're worried about is where they're going to spend New Year's Eve and meet their friends from the other side of the continent. 
But fear not brave roadtrip­pers, here is a list of sugges­ted restaurants, bars, clubs, and pre-post game activities in the stadium area. The best place to look for a listing of bands and concerts is a news­paper called the New Times-­I'm told it's a Bible to resi­dents of the Valley. 
Good luck, and be careful-­you're not in South Bend anymore, and of course, go Irish. 
REST t\URANTS: 
• Garcia's Garcia's offers Mexican food far better than Chi Chi's in a casual atmosphere. The prices are inexpensive and the margaritas are great. Try the shredded beef chimic­hangas. Garcia's is a Phoenix chain so look for them wher­ever you staY.. 
• 
Flakey Jake's A favorite ASU hangout, Flakey Jake's is the home of gourmet hamburgers. The corn-fed beef is ground on the premises and the homemade buns are superb. Prices are inexpensive. Jake's is located at 715 S. Rural in Tempe. Phone: 967-3192. 

• 
Tony's New Yorker Club Tony's New Yorker Club is a noisy, no frills, Southern Ital­ian restaurant. Tony's offers great pizza, pasta, and cal­zone at inexpensive prices. Tony's is open for dinner and reservations are recommend­ed. Location: 107 E. Broad­way, Tempe. Phone: 967-3073 

• 
Paradise Bar and Grill The Paradise Bar and Grill is another ASU hangout. It's a little classier than your typi­cal hangout. The Grill serves everything from snacks and appetizers to sandwiches and dinners. Prices range from inexpensive to moderate. Lo­cation: 401 S. Mill. 


PUBS, DANCE CLUBS, AND ROCK CLUBS: 
• Warehouse Deli and Pub The Warehouse Deli and Pub is more of a lounge than a 


club. It features contempo­rary soloists and duets. No covers. Location: University Dr. and Forest St. 
• 
Studebakers More of a dance club, Studebakers has a live DJ featuring tracks from the 50s to the present. Location: 705 

S. 
Rural Rd. 

• 
Bandersnatch Brew Club Bandersnatch Brew Club fea­tures live jazz music. Loca­tion: 125 E. Fifth St. 

• 
Edcel's Attic Edcel's Attic is a showcase for reggae and progressive bands. Location: 4th St. and Mill Avenue. 

• 
Chuy's Chuy's is a rock club that fea­tures live reggae and progres­sive music, and was named best new club by the New Times in 1988. 


OTHER ACTIVITIES 
Pep Rally Sunday, Jan. 1 the Phoenix Alumni Club will sponsor a pep rally at the Civic Plaza. Dick Rosenthal will be speak­ing. Admisson is $2 for Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College students and food and beverages will be served. Rally will be followed by a dance. Doors open at 7:30 p.m. 
Post Game Rally Immediately following the game at the ASU Activities Center sponsored by the Phoenix Alumni Club. Admis­sion is $2 for students. 
Mass Masses 5 p.m. Saturday and 11 a.m. Sunday at the Princess Hotel. 
For more information about New Year's Eve festivities and shuttle buses call the hospitality number at the Princess Hotel: (602) 585-4848 x7519. 
Lasers, l~ and fire-E 
the Club 
LAURA STANTON accent writer "'n 
L 
ondon offers an endless array of nighttime enter­tainment that con­tinues into the wee hours of the morning. The fol­lowing is a brief guide to some of the more popular or SE highly recommended spots among fall semester domers. Weekly events and theater w listings can be found in Time ir: Out magazine-a copy is al­a• ways on hand at the hotel. ti 
DISCOS: The cheapest time to go dancing is during the sl week. Bargain nights vary ol from one club to another. tt Many establishments position tt 
p

people in the nearest tube sta­tion to hand out coupons good ~ for that night, and the coupons are often good for m groups of people. R 
Shaftsbury's, near Picadilly Circus, hands out coupons for up to five people at £1 ($2) a piece oil Thursday nights; regular cover is £5. 
Prices go up as the clubs get classier: Camden Palace is a renovated theater minus the seats, with bartenders of questionable gender, a wide range of people, theme nights, and good light shows. (£4 discount, £8 regular.) 

The Hippodrome, with its video screen, laserAight show, scantily clad fire-eaters, and sleek decor is located on Charing Cross Rd. Catering to a slightly dressy crowd, it is slightly more expensive: £6 discounted. 
MOVIE THEATERS: Along 



vs. 
Time 5 p.m. EST 

TV & Radio 
Tickets 

NBC National Television Mutual Radio Network 
Game is sold out Sun Devil Stadium 
-~--.·~~·~·~-~-~-··-__J£~~~7,.;;;0.~-14~9~1):.,...__~---­
Notre Dame 1st
AP Rankings 
West Virginia 3rd 
·----··--·---·-·-------~~­
This is the first meeting
Series 

between the two schools Cotton Bowl, 1988
Last ND Bowl Game 
Texas A&M 35, Notre Dame 10 
The 1989 Fiesta Bowl: a tale of two quarterbacks 
Rice has beaten the odds for ND 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
There have been a lot of knocks on Tony Rice since he first came to Notre Dame three years ago. 
First the critics scoffed at his SAT scores, which kept him on the sidelines during his fresh­man campaign. Next came questions about his ability to fill the quarterback role left vacant by the injured Terry Andrysiak last October. 
And once Rice had earned the signal-calling duties early this fall, the knocks on his arm and his passing were soon to follow. 
But there is one complaint that no one can have against the Woodruff, S.C. native. No one can say that Tony Rice does not know how to win. 
"All summer I heard people say we could never be a great team with Tony Rice as our quarterback because he can't throw," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "I'm not par­ticularly concerned about sta­tistics or anything else. Just • look at his record. As a starter he is 15-2, and that's with wins over USC (twice), Alabama, Michigan, Pitt, Miami. That's rather impressive if you ask me." 
Nothing has symbolized the obstacles Tony Rice has faced, and overcome, more than Notre Dame's 27-10 win over Southern California in the reg­ular season finale. 
As a Proposition 48 victim two years ago, Rice stayed be­hind while his teammates traveled to USC and pulled out a 38-37 come-from-behind vic­tory. 
Two years later, again at the Los Angeles Coliseum, Rice was at his finest, directing a 27-lOwin in a season-ending No. 1 vs. No. 2 matchup. One lin­gering memory from the win over USC is Rice scampering down the sideline for a 65-yard touchdown--the longest of his career. 
"I was looking for the man I was supposed to pitch out for, 
see RICE, page 6 
......., 
• 
File Photo 

Notre Dame's Tony Rice (right) Is known primarily for his running 
ability, while West VIrginia's Major Harris often looks to put his 
Pressure is no major problem for West Virginia's Harris 


By SHELLY POE Mountaineer Illustrated 
There may be only one image ..nat describes the life Major Harris has been asked to lead. lately--the calm inside the storm. 
In the heat of battle on the football field while the veteran offensive line sends off charg­ing defenders under the sweaty glare of television lights or the unflinching accuracy of a tape recorder, Harris never blinks. 
If he's caught in the middle of a broken play, he swerves and makes up the yardage him­self. If he's accosted by a fan snapping pictures outside the Facilities Building, he smiles. 
And if he's edging close to meeting time and an interview is running long, he politely finishes. And when he's asked for his autograph for the umpteenth time, he signs. 
It takes a lot to shake the un­flappable Major Harris. 
Which is not exactly what his reputation is built upon--that glamorous image of the boy quarterback with the helter­skelter, . jitterbug moves that have transformed him and his marquis name into a persona of major proportions. 
Only a sophomore, Harris has placed fifth in the Heisman Trophy balloting and has led West Virginia to its first-ever unbeaten and untied regular season. 
The Mountaineers will be playing for the national cham­pionship Jan. 2largely because of Harris' explosive talents directing the West Virginia of­fensive attack. The Pittsburgh native has completed 92-of-160 passes for a completion rate of 
57.5 percent. Harris has thrown 13 touchdown passes with just seven interceptions. 
Harris also is third on the team in rushing with 599 yards. He has averaged five yards a carry and 54.5 yards per game while rushing for six touch­downs. 
Harris has become a legend within the Mountain State, where youngsters sport No. 9 apparel and mimic his every move. He is hometown hero in Pittsburgh, where his school­boy smile and gravel-v,Jiced tones appear weekly on the eve­ning news. And aeross America, college football rans talk increasingly of the young man who came of age last season in West Virginia, bring­ing a football team full of mountaineers along with him in the process. 
In terms of recognition, rankings and returning letter­men, good things keep happen­ing for the Mountaineers. A hysteria of sorts has swept the 
see MAJOR, page 8 

page 2 Friday, December 9, 1988 

File Photo  
This year's 11-o Mountaineer football  national  championship  also  has Its  
record has the team and practically  students  calling  the  Notre  Dame  
the  entire  state  of  West  VIrginia  campus and predicting a Mountaineer  
celebrating. WVU's shot at the 1988  rout In the Fiesta Bowl.  

All's well in Morgantown 
West Virginia fans gearing up for their title shot 
By STEVE MEGARGEE "West Virginia is not an overnight Assistant Sports Editor wonder," said Turfari. "This is their fifth bowl in eight years. They figured The phone call arrived last Friday to have a good team; they have 23 fifth­
night at the room in Cavanaugh Hall. year seniors. 
"Is this the Notre Dame campus? I'm "Beano Cook picked West Virginia to from West Virginia University. We're win the national title before the gonna run up the score 40 or 50 points season." on y'all. We've got the best quarterback Cook did pick the Mountaineers to in the land." win the title, but the ESPN commen­
Unlike other certain phone calls tator is well-publicized for making off­made between campuses during this the-wall predictions during the college college football season, this conversa­football season (he predicted LSU to tion between the West Virginia and defeat Miami this year). Few people Notre Dame students was all in good took his choice of West Virginia serious­fun. ly, though many pre-season magazines 
"He said maybe we could go out for had the Mountaineers ranked ahead of a beer before the game," said Notre the Irish. Dame senior Andy Fena. And none of West Virginia's five 
But it also serves as an indication of bowls --the Peach, Gator, Hall of the excitement around the Morgantown Fame, Bluebonnet and Sun --were campus heading into West Virginia's played on New Year's Day. But West Jan. 2 Fiesta Bowl showdown with Virginia does have more of a recent Notre Dame. bowl tradition than Notre Dame. The 
A win by the third-ranked Moun­Irish only have three bowl appearances taineers would likely give them the first since 1981. national championship in their 96-year Joe Kacik, sports editor of West Vir­history. ginia University's daily student news­
West Virginia's only other unde-paper, acknowledges that this was a 
. feated season was a 10-0-1 campaign season many students and observers under Dr. Clarence Spears in 1922, and had awaited for a long time. the Mountaineers never have gone un­"People looked forward to this season defeated and untied. three years ago," said the sports editor 
''They've had great teams in the past, of The Daily Athenaeum. "We had so but this probably is their best team many seniors, and (quarterback) ever," acknowledges Mickey Turfari, Major Harris was going to be a lot bet­executive sports editor of Morgan­ter." town's The Dominion Post. West Virginia was just 6-6 last 
The fans have shown their apprecia­season, but the Mountaineers were tion with overflow crowds at Moun­going through a year very similar to taineer Field in games against Penn Lou Holtz's first season at Notre Dame State and Syracuse. But longtime ob­in 1986. servers of West Virginia football bristle The Irish went 5-6 that season, losing at any notion that the Mountaineers are a Cinderella team. see WVU, page 5 

< /' f ~-------.,"'--'-..._......._ /.///./----""........."'--''--­
~ 

*7 nights luxurious lodging at the Sunchase Resort Condominiums *Round Trip Air (via chartered jet) 
Transportation *Welcome parties *Windsurfing or Hobie cat sailing 
or *Trimaran sailing 

*7 Nights luxury lodging at Gore Creek Resort 
Condominiums *Round Trip Deluxe Motorcoach *4 days unlimitedt1nterchangeable 
Vail13eavercreek lift tickets with option to bu~ 
extra days at group discount *Ski rental option *On-site Tour Director 
THE CHRISTMAS GIFT OF A LIFETIME!! 
INFORMATIONAl/SIGN UP MEETING 
INFORMATIONAl/SIGN UP MEETING 
JAN 26 7:30-8:30 
LaFortune Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Montgomery Theatre 
JAN 26, 7PM 
1st Floor LaFortune 1st Floor LaFortune 
Questions: Call Pat 283-1534 Questions: Call Bob 283-1521 
OR DAN 287-5767 
·------··-~
P---~-~--~-­
Friday, December 9, 1988 Irish Extra page 3 
Starns and Pritchett: ND Hfootball's clown princes 
Free-spirited seniors find 
unique ways to lead squad 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
When Frank Starns and Wes Pritchett are not earning their way into the national spotlight with their play on the Notre Dame defense, they sneak in. 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz found that out during practice one day, while being inter­viewed for a CNN national sports report. The cable net­work used field microphones to get the effect of hitting in the background, but instead got what sounded like the voices of Notre Dame's assistant coaches. 
"Nice going, Pritchett," one voice yelled into the microp­hone. "You're going to be a great one." 
"Atta boy Starns," shouted the other. "Keep that up and you're going to be an All­American." 
Lou Holtz could not contain his smile in front of the camera. He knew who thought so highly of his free-spirited fifth-year seniors: Starns and Pritchett themselves. 
"We were just giving our­selves a plug," explains Pritchett. "You never know when somebody you know might be watching." 
But Pritchett and Starns are at their best when people are not watching. That's when they really go to work, earning their reputation as the clown princes of the top-ranked Notre Dame football team. 
Consider a brief highlight film: 
• 
Starns and freshman linebacker Troy Ridgley find defensive line coach Joe Palermo's Philadelphia hoagie, which was hand delivered by a friend from Pennsylvania. The two eat the hoagie, leaving a note that reads, "Thanks for the hoagie, Coach. Stoney (Mike Stone breaker) and I really en­joyed it." They sign the letter "Wes." 

• 
Starns places a blue stripe on Pritchett's helmet early in the fall, when every freshman wore a stripe until he earned the right to take it off. Pritchett wonders what he did wrong, and when he discovers what happened, he puts the stripe on senior linebacker Ned Bolcar's helmet. 


When removing it, Bolcar rips the air valve on his helmet and loses all the protective air in it. He misses half a session. 
"It's like having no padding in your helmet," Pritchett said. "He was pleased about that," Starns added. 
• Pritchett borrows a cigar from Tim Prister, the editor of 
see JOKERS, page 7 
~ 


spared from any of Starns' off-the-field antics, which usually Involve linebacker Wes Pritchett and any unsuspecting victim. 
Helps studentsrelievestress. 
The stress ofsolving equations that run from here to Tierra del Fuego. Of tracking the elusive quark. And of analyzing the strains placed on your average suspension bridge on awindy day. 
To all of you who must move moun­tains ofdata we offer the Macintosh" Il com­puter. Owning one is comparable to having apersonal workstation or powerful main­frame sitting on your desk. 
It has a clock speed of 15.7 MHz. And a68881 math co-processor. Its memory expands up to 2gigabytes. Its hard disk capa­city, to 80MB. Its architecture, wide open ­with six NuBus"' slots for communications, video boards and MS-DOS co-processing. 
All of which is good reason to do one simple thing the next time an assignment has you stressed out: Plug one in. 
.,_ 
. 

The power to be your besf 
© Jt).'{~ •Wilt• (.ompukr. Inc :WJ/1'.11~· :VifJ/1' lri}..'O and.llrlcinlrA-;h an· ll'J!.LVmrllrademtlrh.· t{mtd 7bt.•ftomTio l~·.rour /J('s( £,· (J_/rt~lemarl• r{WIIt• Cmllf1111t't: /uc. .\ft/11£• L' 11 fmdemarl• t!f"1i:m,·Jns/nmlc'11L\". /11( .11.\"/Kl\" is tl 1l~isff'1trl fmdcm11rJ.• t!f.llit.mw!fl (."orpomfmn. 

Computer 
Center 

-~-~--~----~-------~ 
----~ 
--------------------------·-------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
The big enchilada. All the marbles. 
The whole ball of wax. 
Get out your book of cliches, call it 
what you want, but this one's for the 
national championship. 
For Notre Dame, at least. 

If Notre Dame wins the Fiesta Bowl 
on Jan. 2 in Tempe, it will have won its 
eighth official national championship, 
capped off its 12th unbeaten, untied 
year and completed its first-ever 12-0 
season. 
If the West Virginia Mountaineers 
overcome the odds and topple the Irish, 
the situation may be a little stickier. If 
the Miami Hurricanes win impres­
sively over Nebraska in the Orange 
Bowl, 11-1 could win out over 12-0 by 
virtue of the dubious "tougher 
schedule." 
"Schedules are something you can't even get into," said West Virginia head coach Don Nehlen. "We're a Division I football team and we're undefeated and so is Notre Dame. We're the only ones left. At the end of (the Fiesta Bowl) there will be one undefeated team. That team will be the national champion." 
"West Virginia may very well be the best team in the country at the present time," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "Offensively, we're looking at a team that's much better than us, primarily because of their speed at wide receiver and strength at offensive line. 
"Joe Paterno told me that West Vir­ginia is a great football team. Pitt man­handled us, and West Virginia is better than that up front. They're bigger and more physical." 
Holtz also pointed to a pair of indi­viduals he worries about. 
"Their fullback (Undra Johnson) is probably the best we've played against, maybe the best in the country," Holtz said. "Their wide receivers have the speed of Pitt's receivers and the hands of Southern Cal's receivers. <Quarterback) Major Harris throws the ball like Rodney Peete and scrambles like a combination of Peete and Pitt's Darnell Dickerson." 
Of course, comments like these are a little more justified in preparation for West Virginia than were similar praises for mighty Rice and Navy. The Mountaineers are fired up and not to be underrated. 
Holtz will make sure they're not. 
Notre Dame offense vs. West VIrginia defense 
In Notre Dame's impressive 27-10 vic­tory over Southern Cal, the Irish of­fense was somewhat less than impres­sive. Holtz placed most of the blame on the offensive line, but it may have had something to do with the absence of the team's then-leading rusher and leading receiver. 
"(Against USC), I was extremely dis­appointed offensively," said Holtz, who 
·..
. •'.' 
. .
N

;, ·' 
~,. 
:// 

Anthony Brown leads the Moun­taineers with 913 yards rushing on 167 attempts this season, for an average 
is 1-1 against West Virginia, both times in the Peach Bowl when he coached North Carolina State. "I thought Andy Heck played really well, but outside of that we just aren't very good on the offensive line. If you can't run the foot­ball, you're just kidding yourselves." 
The Irish rushed for 162 yards against Southern California, nearly 100 yards below their average of 258 yards per game. Chances are that will be the area of concentration when preparations for the Fiesta Bowl resume on Dec. 16. 
Look for Mark Green, Anthony Johnson and Tony Brooks to grind it out on the ground against a West Virginia defensive front line which might not have faced as consistent a running game as Notre Dame has shown this year. 
No major changes are planned as of now in the Irish offensive scheme, and both Tony Brooks and Ricky Watters are cleared to play in the Fiesta Bowl. 
A deep West Virginia defense fea­tures nine starting seniors, including punter Lance Clarion. The Moun­taineers suit up an incredible 24 fifth­year seniors. 
Their effective 5-2 defensive front in­cludes seniors Chris Parker, Scott Sum­mits and Mike Fox at the tackles, senior Renaldo Turnbull at one end and junior Chris Haering at the other. Turnbull 
Irish Extra: The Game
'" 
File Photo 
' 

of 5.5 yards per carry. West VIrginia averages 5.2 yards per rush as a team behind Its veteran offensive line. 
has 12 sacks, while Summits and 
Parker have six each. Haering has 
started every game for the Moun­
taineers and leads the team in total 
tackles with 126. 
Senior Robert Pickett and junior 
Theron Ellis, who has become a force 
late in the season, will handle the 
linebacking chores. The Mountaineers 
boast exceptional speed in their defen­
sive backfield with senior cornerbacks 
Alvoid Mays and Willie Edwards, 
senior strong safety Bo Orlando and 
sophomore free safety Darrell Whit­
more. Mays has five interceptions on 
the year to lead West Virginia. 
West Virginia's is a defense which has given up 3,144 total yards, mostly passing yards late in games that have gotten out of hand. The Mountaineers have allowed 1,538 yards rushing on 466 attempts for only a 3.3 yards per carry average. 
Of course, that is reason for concern on Holtz's part. 
"Defensively," said Holtz, "I don't see much difference between the two teams (West Virginia and Notre Dame). They just shut down Pitt's of­fense and we had some trouble with it. Their defense is similar to Michigan's and USC's in terms of personnel and scheme." 
Friday, December 9, 1988 
West VIrginia offense vs . Notre Dame defense 

Now we come to the crucial question 
of the ballgame: Can Notre Dame's 
highly-touted defense stop Major Har­
ris and company? Harris has com­
pleted 58 percent off his passes, thrown 
for over 1,700 yards, is the third-leading 
rusher on the team and finished fifth in 
the Heisman Trophy balloting? 
He's the only Mountaineer you ever 
hear about, right? 
Perhaps, but don't let publicity judge 
this offense. 
Five Mountaineer backs, including 
Harris, average five yards per carry 
or better. Tailback Anthony Brown has 
913 yards in 10 games and running back 
Undra Johnson is the second-leading 
rusher on the team (704 yards, team­
high 11 touchdowns), despite starting 
only one of 11 games this year. 
West Virginia has several burners at 
the wideout spots, with the probable 
starters for the Fiesta Bowl being Cal­
vin Phillips (24 catches for 611 yards, 
25.5 yards per catch) and Reggie Rem­bert (22.7 yards per catch, 7 TDs). Keith Winn is a dependable tight end whom Harris isn't afraid to go to (13 for 180, fourth-leading receiver). 
The offensive line which has sprung the backs and given Harris all kinds of time is a veteran, all-senior bunch led by 6-4, 297-pound right tackle Brian Smider. The line averages 6-3, 275­pounds across and is rounded out by John Stroia and Bob Kovach at the guards, Kevin Koken at center, and Rick Phillips at left tackle. 
The placekicker is Charlie Baumann, a four-year starter with a career mark of 32-of-43 field goals (.744), but whose career long is only 44 yards. 
"West Virginia's offensive line is probably the best we've faced all year long," said Holtz. "Right now, they're much, much better than our offensive line. But the guy that really makes it happen is Major Harris. He's elusive and throws the ball extremely well. Overall, they're superior to Notre Dame offensively." 
Perhaps, but so were Miami and Southern Cal before the Irish played them. 
The scrambling and explosiveness of Harris and West Virginia's big-play of­fense poses a problem for Irish linebacker Wes Pritchett and the Notre Dame defense. 
"Obviously, Harris is a great runner and a great passer," said Pritchett. "If you can't contain him, your defense is in trouble." 
"I don't think we're as much a big­play team as West Virginia is," said Holtz. "We'd prefer not to be. We'd prefer to be more consistent. But of course, their explosiveness worries me." 
For Holtz and the Irish, only one game remains for the national cham­pionship. If they win, not even Holtz will be able to question who's the best team in the land. 
MOUNTAINEERS TO WATCH 

Major Harris (QB) 

Regarded as the best quar­terback in West Virginia history, the sophomore finished fifth in the Heisman balloting. Harr.is is a great runner and threw for 1,749 yards this year. 
Anthony Brown (TB) 
Brown rushed for 913 yards on 167 carries in 1 0 games this season for an average of 5.5 yards a carry. The powerful senior often requires more than one tackler per play. 
Theron Ellis (LB) 

Ellis is the No. 2 tackler on the squad with 90 stops. The hard-hitting sophomore has good speed and is especially ef­fective on the Mountaineers' pass rush. 
Chris Haering (LB) 
The junior is the mainstay of the West Virginia defense, leading the team in tackles with 
126. Haering has started every game over the past two years for the Mountaineers. 
Undra Johnson (FB) 
The senior has ·seen time at both tailback and fullback for the Mountaineers, and ranks second on the team with 704 yards on 139 carries for an a\lerage of 5.1 per rush. 

Irish Extra
Friday, December 9, 1988 
page 5 

Three bowl victories led to three N D titles 
Irish win Rose, Cotton, Sugar 
By VIC LOMBARDI 
1973 Sugar Bowl 

Sports Writer 
NO 24, Alabama 23 

Of Notre Dame's 10 con­sensus national champion­The 1973 Sugar Bowl pitted ships, only three have come via two undefeated powerhouses in bowl victories. In the Jan. 2 a classsic showdown for the na­Fiesta Bowl, the Irish will try tional championship. It was the to make it four. Ara Parseghian-led Irish 
The 1925 Rose Bowl, the 1973 versus Paul "Bear" Bryant's Sugar Bowl and the 1978 Cotton Alabama team. Bowl hold the distinction as the only post-season contests to The 11-0 Crimson Tide en­produce Irish national crowns. tered the contest top-ranked 
and favored against the 10-0, 1925 Rose Bowl third-rated Irish. Notre Dame _.... NO 27, Stanford 10 kicker Bob Thomas secured a 24-23 upset by belting 19-yard 
The 9-0 Irish traveled to field goal with 4:26 remaining. Pasadena to face Pop Warner's Stanford Indians in the heralded Tournament of Roses. The game would mark the final appearance of those fabled Four Horsemen-­Struhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden. 
The foursome concluded their careers with a successful 27-10 victory, giving Notre Dame and coach Knute Rockne 
The Four Horsemen rode to a 27-10 victory over They are, from left to right, Don Miller, Elmer their first-ever national title. Stanford In their final game--the 1925 Rose Bowl. Layden, Jim Crowley and Harry Stuhldreher. 
Elmer Layden galloped into 
the endzone three times, in­Ara Parseghian Finally, after seven lead record. Dan Devine's Irish Notre Dame gained most of cluding two long interception changes and with the Tide trail-were rated four spots behind its momentum in the second returns of 78 and 70 yards. Parseghian's stingy defense ing by a point with three the Longhorns and held a 10-1 quarter, when captain Terry Quarterback Harry held Alabama without a single . minutes left, Bryant thought he mark. · Eurick rushed for two touch­Stuhldreher played the entire yard in the first quarter. The had the Irish stuffed. Punter Worst of all, the Irish had to downs and Joe Montana threw afternoon with a broken ankle. offensive attack was sparked Greg Gantt pinned the Notre find some way to stop Heisman for another to build a 24-3 lead. ­
And an inspired Irish defense by fullback Wayne Bullack (79 Dame offense on its own one­Trophy winner Earl Campbell. From there, the physical Irish staged a late-game goal-line rushing yards) and quarter-yard line with a booming 69-But a rabid Notre Dame defense was just too much, as stand that dashed any hopes of back Tom Clements, who threw yard kick. But a Clements-to­defense, paced by middle the Longhorns' 11-game win a Stanford rally. for 169 yards. Robin Weber 38-yard pass linebacker Bob Golic (17 streak came to an abrupt halt. 
The Indians dominated the In the second stanza, Ala-pushed the Irish out of the hole tackles), held Campbell to a Most of the national title ten­game on paper, outgaining the bama's hard-nosed backs--and secured a national cham­modest 116 yards on 29 carries sion came after the game when Irish in total yards 316-186. Yet Wilbur Jackson and Randy pionship victory. as the Irish pummeled Texas Notre Dame, Alabama and Lou 
even with the heroic efforts of Billingsley--led a drive all the 38-10. Holtz's Arkansas were vying two-way star Ernie Nevers, the way into the endzone for a 7-6 1978 Cotton Bowl The Irish were paced by the for the top spot in the polls. The Indians could not overcome the lead. NO 38, Texas 10 backfield tandem of Jerome victory barely elevated the speed and savvy of Rockne's But the Tide turned on the Brown and Vagas Ferguson, as Irish to the top position. Notre team. The capacity crowd of ensuing kickoff, when Notre Texas came into the 1978 Cot­they rambled for 102 and 100 Dame edged out 11-1 Alabama 53,000 saw Notre Dame take Dame's AI Hunter raced 93 ton Bowl ranked first in both yards, respectively. Ferguson in the UPI poll by only 11 full advantage of every Stan­yards down the sideline for the . the Associated Press and also earned offensive Player of points, giving the Irish their ford miscue and go on to finish longest return in Sugar Bowl United Press International the Game honors by scoring most recent national champi­with a flawless 10-0 season. History. polls with its perfect 11-0 three touchdowns. onship. 

has been compared to last year's Syracuse squad. Both teams have gone 
wvu 
undefeated and have endured criticism 
continued from page 2 
for playing light schedules. five games by a total of 14 points. West Virginia lost five games by a combined "I'm sure that a lot of people would total of 15 points last year. That in­defend that and say that we play the cluded a 32-31 last-second loss to same teams every year, and this is the Syracuse, which finished the year un­first year we've beaten every team," defeated. said Kacik. "I think the Penn State 
West Virginia's team this year often game made people around here feel a 
TAILBACK 24 Mark Green 40 Tony Brooks 

Irish Offense 
FULLBACK · · · 22 Anthony Johnson ..-39 Braxston Banks 
FLANKER 13 Pat Eilers QUARTERBACK 
SPLITEND 21 Aaron Robb 411111 9 Tony Rice 25 Raghib Ismail 
80 Steve Alaniz 

TIGHT END TACKLE ~ 17 Kent Graham f'Jil 86 Derek Brown 66 Andy Heck TACKLE 
rr "'~'J' ~"~·~ ~ ~;:o:N":" 
CENTER GUARD 55 Mike Heldt GUARD 52 Tim Ryan 76 Gene McGuire 75 Tim Grunhard 53 Winston Sandri 61 Tom Gorman 
West Virginia Defense MIDDLE GUARD 
TACKLE 73 Scott Summits TACKLE 94 Chris Parker 84 James Fuller 61 Mike Fox 96 Harold Ortiz 
Pat Marlatt OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 30 Neil Hamilton ~ 92 Quintus McDonald 93 Geoff Japchen ~ ~42 Keith Goganious
b b b 95 
INSIDE LINEBACKER A INSIDE LINEBACKER 
66 Theron Ellis 45 Robert Pickett 53 Ted Kester 97 Lonnie Brockman A 
CORNERBACK 3 Alvoid Mays ~ ~ CORNERBACK 
23 Darren Fulton FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 47 Willie Edwards 11 Darrell Whitmore 22 Bo Orlando 5 Preston Waters 42 Zippy Shearer 25 Lawrence Drumgoole 
Observer Graphic I Annette Rowland 
lot more confident. A lot of people said we hadn't played a difficult schedule up until then." 
The 51-30 dismantling of Penn State on CBS television exposed West Vir­ginia to the rest of the nation as well. Penn State had an off-year, as its 5-6 record indicates, but West Virginia later crushed 9-2 Syracuse 31-9 on ESPN. 
West Virginia averaged 60,497 fans per game this season in Mountaineer Stadium, which holds 63,500. The Syracuse and Penn State games each drew over 65,000 fans. 
Although the first few home games did not sell out, West Virginia observers insist that is no way to judge the loyalty of the Mountaineer fans. 
"They supported a team that was 4-7 two years ago," said Furfari. "They're not fair-weather fans by any means." 
TAILBACK 28 Anthony Brown 
... 
34 Undra Johnson 
West Virginia Offense 
FULLBACK 20 Craig Taylor 36 Aaron Evans 
FLANKER 88 Reggie Rembert 
SPLITEND
QUARTERBACK
·1 Grantis Bell 8;.> Calvin Phillips
9 Major Harris TACKLE ~ 7 Greg Jones 15 Jamie LeMon 
79 Brian Smider TACKLE 62 Milton Redwine p68 Rick Phillips 72 Jack Linn
PPPPP
TIGHT END CENTER

81 Keith Winn 85 Adrian Moss GUARD
GUARD 57 Kevin Koken 55 Bob Kovach 51 Jeff Price 75 John Stroia 64 Dale Wolfley 65 Scott Packer 
NOSE TACKLE 50 Chris Zorich • Irish Defense 
TACKLE 92 Bryan Flannery TACKLE 90 Jeff Aim 69 George Williams DEFENSIVE END 62 Ted FitzGerald 74 Mirko Jurkovic DEFENSIVE END 30 Frank Starns ~ 97 A ld AI
b 

37 Scott Kowalkowski ~ , ~ ~ ~ 7 A~~~e Jo~es 
CORNERBACK ~ ~ ~ CORNERBACK 1 Todd Lyght INSIDE LINEBACKER~ ~ INSIDE LINEBACKER 29 Stan Smagala 33 David Jandric 34 Wes Pritchett 42 Mike Stonebreaker 32 D'Juan Francisco 
....
'$!4 36 Donn Grimm 47 Ned Bolcar ~ 
FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 31 Corny Southall~ ~ 27 George Str®ter 15 Pat Terrell QlD ~ 26 Greg Davis 
Irish Extra
page 6 Friday, December 9, 1988 
Irish walk-ons 'band' together on prep squad 

By PETE LaFLEUR Bodine says he and all the their formations but also acted Sports Writer walk-ons can identify with the real cocky, getting in the guys success of the team. faces and saying, 'We're num­
When sophomore walk-on "When I made the choice to ber one' and stuff like that." Gerry Bodine travels to the walk on I knew there might be As Irish fans know, such Fiesta Bowl with the Notre that aspect of obscurity," said strategy paid off. Senior Dame football team, he will not Bodine. "But truthfully, I linebacker Wes Pritchett said know what to expect. wouldn't have come here if I the scout teams play a signifi­
Bodine, like many of his fel­thought I wasn't good enough cant role that the average fan low walk-ons, lives in a to play. That sort of motivation may overlook. seeming world of obscurity, ends up helping both ways, in "The scout team's role is just where he rarely plays in that we help the team get ready as important as the starters," games. He is more often mis­while also helping ourselves Pritchett said. "They have to taken to be another player than move up." prepare each week by giving to be himself, a 6-0, 170-pound Bodine's story is indicative of us a good look and executing defensive back from Hazen, the walk-on dilemma at Notre the plays like we're going to see 
N.D. Dame, where walk-on players them. They're out there every As if being from North rarely even get called by their day giving 100 percent and are 
... __ Dakota would not make one own names, let alone receive really principal figures on the obscure enough, Bodine's scholarships or playing time. team." season has been packed with At other schools, such as Ne­Pritchett cited the play of story after story of mistaken braska and Texas A&M, walk­senior fullba«Jk Mike Gatti. identity. ons have a tradition of making "In prepping for the Air In the Purdue game, Bodine celebrated contributions. But Force game, we needed some­saw his first action of the under the Golden Dome, the one to block the linebacker and season after being inserted at predominant role of the 25 or support the run," Pritchett ex­so walk-ons is relegated to the plained. "Mike Gatti came out "scout teams." every day and knocked me For many fans, the nature of down more than Air Force did the scout teams is as obscure in the game." to them as the names of the Gatti is one of three walk-ons walk-ons. at the prep team fullback spot. 

Of roughly 120 players on the Junior Ted "Tank" McNamara Irish squad, about 50 practice and senior Joe Jarosz join Gatti 
The Observer I Joe Mirkovich 
with the first and second in a backfield that averages 5­
Steve Belles he's not. He's Irish walk-on Gerry Bodine, one of
teams. The remaining 70 then 10 and 220 pounds. 
many Notre Dame walk-ons who are often mistaken for other
compose what are known as the With various scholarship 
players because of their numbers.
scout or prep squads. Practice players not returning to the then consists of the starting of­team this year, Jarosz was "When Joe scored it was al­Come Jan. 2, most of the fense running against the scout given a scholarship along with most like Columbia winning a walk-ons realize they may not Mike Gatti defense, and the scout offense fellow seniors Pat Eilers, Bob game," Gatti recalled. "Many be suited up, much less have a 
playing against the starting Satterfield and Mike Brennan, of the prep guys were in at the chance to play in the Fiesta wide receiver, a position he defense. and junior Dave Prinzivalli. time, and they gathered around Bowl. Nonetheless, they all never practices. Then, after The prep squads are not com­"I came in with the attitude Joe like it was a game-winning concluded that the fellowship the Miami game, he was mis­posed of all walk-ons, however, that I would be a walk-on as touchdown. It was just a great on the scout team--between taken for a player who wears as approximately 45 freshman long as I enjoyed it and kept feeling for all of us." both the walk-ons and the schol­his same uniform number (8)­and sophomore scholarship Gatti, like many of his fellow arship players--is what makes -Steve Belles. players participate on them. walk-ons, has seen action all "practicing so others can play 
"Some fan thought I was The role of the scout teams 
over the field in practices. He better" so much fun. Steve and asked if he could is to provide the starting Irish has played at every offensive "The offensive scout team have my elbow pad as a squads with as accurate a pic­position except center and likes to call ourselves 'The souvenir," Bodine said. ture as they can of the upcom­quarterback and has even seen Band,' after the band in the "Sometimes people will say, ing opponent. This responsibil­time on defense. movie 'The Blues Brothers, ' " 'Go get 'em Steve!' or 'Great ity transcends simply McNamara has likewise had Jarosz said. "Sometimes one of game, Steve!' --even when I imitating plays and forma­his share of work the past two us will play up with the starters have my helmet off." tions; the scout players also try years. Last season, while Gatti for a while and then come back 
The mistaken identity for to pick up on habits of the op­was in Rome and Jarosz was and people will say stuff like, Bodine, who earlier in the posing players. flip-flopping as a starter be­'Hey Joe, we're getting the season was pictured in The Ob­Senior walk-on linebacker cause of injuries to the other band back together!' We just server alongside a feature Chris Shey, a transfer student fullbacks, McNamara was go out and have fun out there story of Belles, stretches from Loras College in Iowa, called on to run many plays. and do what we can to help the beyond fans' misconceptions of said the prep defense takes its McNamara's adventures team win."
Joe Jarosz 

him as Belles. role very seriously. In fact, that season included: plowing So, watch out world. The 
"A lot of people say that I they went beyond the call of progressing,'' Jarosz said. over Cedric Figaro and paying names of Gerry Bodine, Joe look like Stan Smagala, and duty in preparation for the "I've played on special teams, for it the rest of the year; Jarosz and Mike Gatti may not guys on the team call me 'Little most emotional game of the gotten to travel and also got a having a pad in his helmet slip be household names, but they Stan,' " Bodine said. year. scholarship, so I feel I've been down during a crushing hit, may soon be engraved in na­"Sometimes there will even be ''The Miami game was a big able to maintain my initial leaving him with a pair of black tional championship rings. And fans handing me programs to week for us," Shey explained. goals." eyes for three weeks; and get­then when someone mistakes sign that have the page opened "We taped our helmets white Jarosz also had the thrill of ting the dubious honor of im­their identity, they can simply to Stan's picture." and got out markers to make scoring a touchdown in the itating Pittsburgh's Craig flash the ring and say, "I'm 
Despite the obscurity, the Miami logos. We showed closing minutes against Rice. "Ironhead" Heyward. with the band." 
... 
belong at Notre Dame because "It all goes back to the way Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, who the season. Rice leads all rus­I didn't score very high on the I was brought up," said Rice. hauled in a Rice 55-yard bomb hers with 700 yards. Tailbacks
Rice 

SAT," continued Rice. "The "I remember my grandmother at Southern Cal. Tony Brooks and Mark Green 
continued from page 1 

way I see it, I chose a hard telling me that your attitude "I like to throw long to follow with 667 and 646, respec­No.7 for USC, Mark Carrier," road, sat out my freshman will take you far in this life. I'm Rocket and Ricky Watters," tively. recalled Rice. "As I got year, and I'm happy where I down to earth--I'm not a big su­said Rice. "You know when you Those 700 rushing yards towards him I could see there am now. I hope people accept perstar. I owe a lot to my put it up there and they're broke the Notre Dame record was a little cut there, and I that no matter what it is, he's friends here who keep me in going to make things happen." for rushing yards by a quarter­thought to myself, 'If he goes trying to do his best and he is line. I like to talk to people--! back, nearly doubling Joe a little further, I'm gone.' He happy at it." don't know names, but I know Ismail shares the admiration Theismann's 358 yards back in did and I just took it." a lot of faces." for Rice's talents, especially 1970. 
Rice took the ball in for the Tony Rice's best on the That easy-going attitude the intangibles. Just as Rice has faced his first score of the day against gridiron has made the football translates to success on the "He is always smiling, al­critics, so too has his team. USC just like he has taken on team he directs the No.1 team field as well. ways cheerful," said Ismail. the obstacles placed in front of in the nation and due for a na­"I smile a lot in the huddle," "Even in the huddles, he "A lot of people still do not him since arriving at Notre tional championship clash in said Rice, with a trace of that smiles. He takes away a lot of believe in Notre Dame," said Dame in August, 1986--with the Fiesta Bowl with West Vir­very smile. "I'm the guy who the pressure that way. If there Rice. "That doesn't matter to steady strides and eyes on the ginia. Notre Dame fans can ac­talks in the huddle and I try to is a bomb play to me he'll look me, though. We control our own goal. cept that. keep my players up, telling over and give me this little destiny. I know we are capable 
"I started off slow," said But it is hard not to accept them 'We're OK--we can do it.' wink and even if I drop it he'll of winning all our games. 
Rice, referring to sitting out his Tony Rice. The affable junior When they get fired up, I get say 'We'll get it,' and still be That's our goal. If we win all 
freshman year. "And I've been makes quick friends among fired up.'' smiling." our games we win the national 
... fighting that ever since I've teammates, dormmates and Rice's bread-and-butter has championship." been here. And I'm not through classmates. His easy-going Rice has fired up 70 comple·­been the option running attack, He smiles, then quickly cor­fighting. When something goes personality and charm show no tions in 138 attempts for 1176 however, which he has directed rects himself with the confi­wrong, you just have to work hints of a guy who has been fea­yards this season, with eight with precision. The Irish have. dence that has led this team to to get over it and then face the tured on the cover of Sports Il­touchdowns and seven inter­averaged 258 yards on the an 11-0 record. next challenges that come up. lustrated twice in the last seven ceptions. One of Rice's favorite ground--with three players "I mean when we win all our 
"A lot of people said I didn't weeks. targets is speedy freshman picking up 600-plus yards for games." 
~-----------~-~-~---.------,._,-------~-----,-___________.....,...__.,._______ 
Irish Extra
Friday, December 9, 1988 page 7 
Jokers 
continued from page 3 
Blue and Gold magazine, and smokes it under his helmet at practice one day. The Irish de­fensive coaches are mind­boggled when they see smoke creeping out of Pritehett's hel­met as he breaks from the huddle. 
• Starns and Pritchett put "Red Hot" in Ridgley's helmet on an 87-degree, two-a-day practice session in August. 
"Everybody else was 87 degrees; Ridgley was about 105," Stams,says. 
• Another Ridgley gem: With the Irish well ahead of Purdue in the second half, Starns and Pritchett notice that Ridgely is getting anxious to get in the game. So Pritchett stands behind Starns and Irish defensive coordinator Barry Alvarez, and yells, "Ridgley," in his best coach's voice. 
Ridgley jumps up and stands next to Alvarez, who asks the freshman what he wants. 
"He's such easy prey," Starns says of Ridgley, "because for a freshman, he's so outspoken. He leaves him­self open." 
This story will leave out details of the tandem's near X­rated appearance on WVFI radio's "Speaking of Sports" show, and the hundreds of un­printable lockerroom antics. You get the picture. 
Of course, Pritchett and Starns know when to take the game of football seriously. 
Pritchett, an inside 
linebacker and team co­
captain, leads the Irish in 
tackles with 112. Starns, a de­

fensive end, leads the team in 
sacks with seven and also has 
broken up four passes. 
The two terrorized Southern 
Cal quarterback Rodney Peete 
in Notre Dame's 27-10 victory 
over the Trojans in the last 
game of the regular season. They played no practical jokes on Peete; they just gave him a sound spanking. 
Holtz says he realizes the value of his seniors' non-stop comedy hour. He has recog­nized all season that this year's squad has a chemistry that works. 
"They have more fun than any kids in a sandbox," Holtz says. "Frank Starns and Wes Pritchett are always playing games. One of the key in­gredients in life is to look to have fun in everything you do." 
These guys do. 
"We like to have fun," Pritchett says. "That's been the key this year. It's not a con­scious effort on our part to al­ways have fun. We just enjoy playing for Notre Dame, and what we do is a result of that." 
But you might not want to believe everything you read in this story. You see, Pritchett and Starns have been known to victimize reporters with their pranks. 
For instance, Pritchett was once asked by a local reporter how he manages to keep up his studies and play football at the same time . 
"I told him that was nothing compared to the modeling I do on the side," laughs Pritchett. "I told him I also choreograph plays in my spare time, and he 

brated many successful plays and practical jokes 
was writing all of this down. I some of Pritchett's interests had to tell him I was joking outside of football. after about five minutes." "Frank told him I really en-
And one time a campus joyed badminton and teather reporter asked Starns about ball. He told the guy I could play around all day in the park during the summer,'' Pritchett says. "It got in the story. I've never played badminton or teather ball in my life." 
You dorltneedyourparents'money 
to buyaMacintosh 

Just theirsignature. 
It's never been difficult for students to convince their parents of the need for aMacintosh® computer at school. 
Persuading them to write the check, however, is another thing altogether. 
Which is why Apple created the Student Loan-to­Own Program. An ingenious loan program that makes buying aMacintosh as easy as using one. 
Simply pick up an application at the location listed below, or callS00-831-LOAN. All your parents 
for you in just afew weeks. There's no collateral. No need to prove financial hardship. No application fee. Best ofall, the loan payments can be spread over as many as 10 years. 
-
Which gives you and your parents plenty of time to decide just who pays for it all. 
, 
·~ 
IntroducingApple's
Student Loan-to-OWn Program Notre Dame Computer Store 
Computer Center/Math Building 
need to do is fill it out, sign it, and send it. .,._iiiiiill•·~ If they qualify, they'll receive acheck 

© 19&! Apple Computer. Inc. Apple. the Apple logo. and Macintosh are registereJ traJemarks of Apple Computer. Inc. 
---~----~ -~ ----~-----~------~~------~------------~ 
Irish Extra
page 8 

punctuated with a smile. sign an autograph ball, he "I think all this publicity is passes it around the room.
Major 

good because it shows that When asked on press day to continued from page 1 people have respect for the name his hero, he told the legions of faithful with a tidal West Virginia program," said cameras straight-faced, "Don wave that has increasingly one Harris. "I hope it will give us Nehlen." name--Major. confidence as a team to know Which is fine for Nehlen, the 
Harris leads a life inside a that people think we're going West Virginia coach who has bubble--a tough task to ask a to be good. We just have to go some pretty strong admiration 20-year-old college student to out and play football." of his own for his second-year undertake. But as the questions quarterback. are asked over and over, he is Harris is a quarterback first, "Major's great," said Neb­increasingly comfortable and a teammate next, with the len. "We love him. All of our confident in his answers, and celebrity status falling way guys love him. That's because he's become another dynamic down on the list of priorities. he is one of those special guys spokesman for Mountaneer He is quick to give praise to his who doesn't let all this publicity football. backfield and receivers, quick go to his head. He turns it File Photo 

His answers come almost by to drag the offensive line into around for the good of the Undra Johnson has only started one game at fullback, but ranks written memory, a recitation a P'lblicity shot. When asked to team." second on the Mounta1.,eerF ·1Ith 704 yards rushing. 
IRISH STATS MOUNTAINEERS ST A TS SCHEDULES 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP Johnson 69 282 4.1 5 22 TEAM STATISTICS wvu OPP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LGTOTAL OFFENSE 4268 3083 Culver 30 195 6.5 3 36 
YARDS Banks 31 129 4.2 1 28 Brown 167 !l13 5.5 7 64
Total Plays 763 723 Watters 30 71 2.4 0 14 NOTRE DAME (11-0)
TOTAL OFFENSE 5309 3144 
Johnson 139 704 5.1 11 55Yards per Play 5.6 4.3 Belles 17 70 4.2 0 18 
YARDS d. MICHIGAN, 19-17
Harris 121 599 5.0 6 38Yards per Game 388.0 280.3 Setzer 11 24 2.2 0 12 
Total Plays 816 781 
Taylor 77 391 5.1 10 25 d. Michigan State, 20-3
PENALTIES-YARDS 65-621 67-538 Eilers 5 20 4.0 1 7 
Yards per Play 6.5 4.0.0 
Napoleon 41 234
FUMBLES-LOST 18-13 23-16 K.Graham 8 18 2.2 0 5 5.7 2 69 d. PURDUE, 52-7
Yards per Game 482.6 285.8 
Rembert 9 144 16.0 2 51TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 221 181 Mihalko 5 12 2.4 1 4 PENAL TIES-YARDS 88-753 60-493 d. STANFORD, 42-14
Evans 22 128 5.8 0 25By Rushing 149 72 P.Graham 5 9 1.8 0 9 FUMBLES-LOST 27-13 29-11 Tyler 19 91 4.8 0 13 d. Pittsburgh, 30-20By Passing 60 93 Satterfield 2 9 4.5 0 6 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 258 193 
Browning 5 24
By Penalty 12 16 Jarosz 3 4 1.3 1 6 4.8 1 7 d. MIAMI, 31-30
By Rushing 159 93 
Shook 3 13 4.3 0 7
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 146-71 159-51 Gatti 1 4 4.0 0 4 d. AIR FORCE, 41-13
By Passing 86 81 
Williams 7 9 1.3 1 7Percentage 48.6 32.1 Southall 1 3 3.0 0 3 By Penalty 13 19 Sprouse 1 4 4.0 0 4 d. Navy, 22-7POSSESSION TIME 348:00 312:00 NOTRE DAME 5932838 4.8 30 65 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 153-84 168-74 Minutes per Game 31:38 28:22 OPPONENTS 4031236 3.1 6 31 
LeVinus 1 2 2.0 0 2 d. RICE, 54-11
Percentage 54.9 44.1 
Jones 9 -29 -3.2 0 4
SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO POSSESSION TIME 328:01 331:59 d. PENN STATE, 21-3
WEST VIRGINIA 621 3227 5.2 40 69
Ho 11 0 32-36 0-0 0 9-12 59 Rice 138 70 .507 71176 8 Minutes per Game 29:40 30:20 OPPONENTS 4661528 3.3 11 0 d. Southern Cal, 27-10 Rice 11 9 0-0 1-1 0 0-0 56 K.Graham 26 17 .654 2 154 o 
PASSING Jan. 2 -West Virginia
Green 11 7 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 42 Belles 4 2 .500 o 84 2 NO CO PCT INT YDS TO
SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP
Johnson 9 5 0-0 1-1 0 0-0 32 P.Graham 2 1 .500 o 16 o 
Baumann 11 0 58-60 0-0 018-25112
Watters 10 4 0-Q 0-0 0 0-0 24 NO 170 90 .529 9 1430 10 Harris 160 92 .575 7 1749 13 WEST VIRGINIA (11-0)
Johnson 11 12 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 72 
Jones 33 14 .424 2 3
Brooks 10 4 0-0 0-1 0 0-0 24 OPP 320 166 .519 18 1847 8 333
Taylor 10 10 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 60 LeVin us 2 0 d. BOWLING GREEN, 62-14
Ismail 11 4 0-Q 0-0 0 0-0 24 0 .000 0 0 Brown 11 3 O-O O-O O O-O 18 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG Rembert 11 9 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 54 wvu 195 106 .544 9 2082 16 d. CAL STATE-FULL, 45-10Watters 15 286 19.1 2 50 Brown 10 7 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 42 
OPP 315 134 .425 23 1616 7
Culver 6 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Green 14 155 11.1 o d. MARYLAND, 55-24
38 Harris 11 6 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 36 Hackett 11 0 5-7 0-0 0 Ismail 12 331 27.6 2 67
3-4 14 Bell 11 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG d. Pittsburgh, 31-1 0 Banks 7 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Brown 12 150 12.5 3 41 
LeMon 11 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 
d. Virginia Tech, 22-10

Eilers 10 1 o-o 0-0 0 0-0 6 Johnson 7 128 18.3 0 28 Napoleon 11 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Phillips 24 611 25.5 2 49
Jarosz 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Brooks 7 121 17.3 2 42 d. East Carolina, 30-1 0
Edwards 11 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Rembert 21 476 22.7 7 68Mihalko 7 1 0-Q 0-0 0 0-0 6 Eilers 6 70 11 . 7 0 15 
Phillips 11 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 LeMon 14 240 17.1 2 32 d. BOSTON COLLEGE, 59-19 Terrell 11 1 0-Q 0-0 0 0-0 6 Banks 5 56 11 .2 1 30 
Orlando 10 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Winn 13 180 13.9 1 30 d. PENN STATE, 51-30Stonebrkr 11 1 0-Q 0-0 0 0-0 6 Alaniz 4 74 18.5' 0 26 Williams 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Bell 11 268 24.4 2 60
Smagala 11 1 0-Q 0-0 0 0-0 6 Mihalko 2 8 4.0 o 6 d. Cincinnati, 51-13
Browning 1 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Moss 7 114 16.3 1 22NO 11 47 37-43 2-3 012-16359 Jacobs 1 14 14.0 o 14 Winn 11 1 0-0 0-0 d. Rutgers, 35-25
0 0-0 6 Mitchell 5 104 20.8 0 42OPP 11 14 13-14 1-2 012-14135 Robb 1 1l 11.0 0 
11 Whitmore 11 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Taylor 4 32 8.0 0 13 d. SYRACUSE, 31-9 RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG Culver 1 10 10.0 0 10 Moss 10 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Johnson 4 37 9.3 1 17 
Jan. 2 -Notre Dame

Rice 121 700 5.8 9 65 Jarosz 1 10 10.0 0 10 Brown 3 20 6.7 0 11 Brooks 117 667 5. 7 2 52 NOTRE DAME 90 1430 15.9 1 0 67 WEST VIRGINIA 106 2082 19.6 16 68
wvu 11 60 58-60 0-0 0 18-254 72 Green 135 646 4.8 7 40 OPPONENTS 166 1847 11.1 8 42 OPP 11 19 15-20 3-8 012-19171 OPPONENTS 134 1622 12.1 7 0 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE WEST VIRGINIA OFFENSE 
WEST VIRGINIA DEFENSEPOS NO PLAYER HT WT CL RE 30 Frank Slams 6-4 237 Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL DE 
93 Dale Jackson 6-2 244 Sr.
• SE 25 Raghlb Iaman 5-10 175 Fr. 37 Scott Kowalkowski 6-2 226 So. TE 81 Keith Wlnn 6-2 
218 Sr. 87 Renaldo Turnbull 6-5 234 Sr.80 Steve Alaniz 6-2 196 Sr. LT 69 George Williams 6-3 282 So. 85 Adrian Moss 6-5 
250 Sr. DT 94 Chris Parker 6-5 280 Sr.QT 66 Andy Heck 6-7 2n Sr. 74 Mirko Jurkovic 6-5 270 Fr. LT 68 Rick Phillips 6-4 262 Sr. 96 Harold Ortiz 6-1 251 Jr.64 Mike Brennan 6-5 246 Sr. 
NT 50 Chris Zorich 6-1 260 So. 72 Jack Linn 6-4 
273 Sr. NT 73 Scott Summits 6-3 278 Sr.QG 52 Tim Ryan 6-4 245 So. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 249 Jr. LG 75 John Strola 6-3 262 Sr. 84 James fuller 6-1 250 Sr.53 Winston Sandri 6-4 253 So. RT 90 Jeff Aim 6-7 246 Jr. 65 Scott Packer 6-5 245 Sr. DT 
61 Mike Fox 6-6 254 Sr.c 55 Mike Heldt 6-4 258 So. 62 Ted FitzGerald 6-5 271 Jr. c 57 Kevin Koken 6-2 263 Sr. 95 Pat Marlatt 6-5 251 Sr.76 Gene McGuire 6-5 265 Fr. 
DE 97 Arnold Ale 6-4 200 Fr. 51 Jeff Price 6-0 257 Sr. DE 49 Chris Haering 6-2 210 Jr.TG 75 Tim Grunhard 6-3 279 Jr. 7 Andre Jones 6-4 215 So. RG 55 Bob Kovach 6-2 297 Sr. 
4 Steve Grant 6-2 210 Fr61 Tom Gorman 6-6 255 Sr. MLB 34 Wes Pritchett 6-6 251 Sr. 64 Dale Wolfley 6-1 260 Jr. CB 3 Alvoid Mays 5-10 165 Sr.TT 71 Dean Brown 6-3 283 Jr. 36 Donn Grimm 6-2 224 So. RT 79 Brian Smlder 6-4 
297 Sr. 23 Darren Fulton 5-8 170 Sr.
72 Joe Allen 6-4 
268 So. 62 Milton Redwine 6-4 300 Sr. TE 86 Derek Brown 6-7 235 Fr. 
ELB 42 Mike Stonebreaker 6-1 226 Jr. SE 82 Calvin Phillips 6-0 1n Sr. ss 22 Bo Orlando 5-10 173 Sr. 88 Frank Jacobs 6-5 234 So. 
47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 232 Sr. 15 Jamie LeMon 5-9 166 Sr. 25 Lawrence Drumgoole 5-11 182 Sr.
QB 9 Tony Rice 6-0 190 JR. 
FCB 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 181 So. FB 20 Craig Taylor 6-0 215 Sr. ILB 45 Robert Pickett 6-0 210 Sr. 17 Kent Graham 6-5 228 So. 
33 David Jandric 6-2 192 Jr. 36 Aaron Evans 5-1 0 229 Jr. 97 Lonnie Brockman 6-4 214 Jr. FB 22 Anthony Johnson 6-0 225 Jr. 
SCB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 186 Jr. QB 9 Major Harris 6-1 207 So. ILB 66 Theron Ellis 6-1 220 Jr. 39 · Braxston Banks 6-3 211 Jr. 
32 D"Juan Francisco 5-11 187 Sr. 7 Greg Jones 6-2 190 Jr. 53 Ted Kester 6-0 225 Jr. TB 24 Mark Green 6-0 184 Sr. TB
ss 27 George Streeter 6-2 212 Sr. 28 Anthony Brown 5-10 211 Sr. FS 11 Darrell Whitmore 5-11 178 So. 40 Tony Brooks 6-2 218 So. 26 Greg Davis 6-1 198 So. 34 Undra Johnson 5-9 200 Sr. 42 Zippy Shearer 5-11 177 Sr.FL 13 Pat Ellers 5-11 197 Sr. FS 31 Corny Southall 6-2 194 Sr. FL 88 Reggie Rembert 6-6 200 Jr. CB 47 Willie Edwards 5-8 186 Sr. 
21 Aaron Robb 6-1 192 Sr. 15 Pat Terrell 6-0 195 Jr. 1 Grantis Bell 5-9 150 Sr. 5 Preston Waters 5-8 166 Jr. 
PK 2 Reggie Ho 5-5 135 Sr. 
p 16 Jim Sexton 6-0 188 So. PK 88 Charlie Baumann 6-1 202 Sr. P 18 Lance Carlon 5-9 143 Sr. 18 Billy Hackett 6-1 184 So. 
13 Pete Hartweger 6-0 178 Sr. 19 Brad Carroll 5-10 186 So. 10 Greg Hertzog 5-10 176 So. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records 
_ear ,n~r..~
are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. ,... Sklko Steve ~~ega,.. Mlirty Strasen 1lweu Kelly KMie A8ndolph Dick Vble
..... 
Asst. Sports Ed. 8MC Spol1l ~­Asst. Sports Ed. Sports Ed~or Asst. Sports Ed. Random Student Guest Celebrity 
-In other words, it isn't enough to 
66-57-2 ~ 57-66-2 56-67-2 51-72-2 61-62-2 55-68-2
pick the winner of a given game. 
.536 .480 .463 .455 .415 .496 .447
The person must pick the winner 
(last week: 9-5-Q) (last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 4-10-Q) (last week: 5-9-Q) (last week: 9-5-0) (last week: 6-8-Q)
and give the underdog points. 
Houston over Wash. State by 4 Wash State Houston Wash State Wash State Houston Wash State Houston 
Indiana over S. Carolina by 3 Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers 
Florida over Illinois by 5.5 Gators Gators Gators Gators lllini Gators Gators 
Colorado over BYU by 5.5 Cougars Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes 
Okla. State over Wyoming by 4.5 Ok State Wyoming Ok State Ok State Wyoming Ok State Wyoming 
Iowa over N.C. State by 1 Wolfpack Wolfpack Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack 
Georgia plck'em Michigan State Bulldogs Spartans Bulldogs Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans 
Syracuse over LSU by 2.5 Orange men Orangemen Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Orangemen 
Clemson over Oklahoma by 1 Tigers Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners 
UCLA over Arkansas by 6 Razorbacks Razorbacks Bruins Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks 
USC over Michigan by 7 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Trojans Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Miami over Nebraska by 6.5 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Florida State over Auburn by 6 Tigers Tigers Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Tigers 
Notre Dame over W. VIrginia by 4.5 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 
---~--~------------~------~---­
Friday, December 9, 1988 

--~-.. 
-

hts, 
ters: 
the mass of American that make their way London has a good se­of foreign films. 1."'·'""''", even the American are a special treat in posh theaters. Many actually sell tickets seat numbers and have that show you to your 
range between £4-£6 
often depending on sit. When purchas­' ask what time the 
show starts. Often the posted is for the 'and is the time of the half hour advertisements preceding movie. Most movie are located in the 
............q 
Circus-Leicester area. CLUBS: The most fa-
Jazz club is London is Scott's in Soho. Host­
a large selection of big IZZ names, it gets very ~owded. Student rates are ~railable. 
If you are willing to go off 1e beaten path a bit, the ass Clef is also well worth >ur time. Located in a base­lent at the end of a dark al­y, it is certainly not lacking , atmosphere. For £6 you 'lll hear the advertised group 
1 
the evening; Tuesday !ghts you can hear their reg­: ar band for free. ~ This certainly is not a com­
1 
1te list of all the night spots London. Take the initiative, te a map, and feel free to periment and explore all lt London has to offer after rk. 
From Webber to 
Shakespeare: 
the Theater 
FRANCIS FEELEY accent writer 
A
ll the world's a stage," and this 
couldn't be more 
true than in Lon­
don's theatreland. 
The "West End" London's 
equivalent to N~w York's 
Broadway, is a cluster of 
theatres centered roughly 
around Picadilly Circus, 
Leicester Square and Covent 
Garden. 

London's playland is simply 
nirvana for the theatre lover. 
At any given time, a London 
theatregoer or visitor may 
choose from among approxi­
mately sixty West End 
productions, in addition to 
Fringe Theatre perfor­
mances, operas and ballets. 
The London stage is made 
up of both commercial and 
subsidized productions, unlike 
theatre in the U.S. which is 
almost stricly commercial. 
The Arts Council annually 
receives and distributes a 
large grant, a considerable 
portion of which is used to 
fund subsidized theatrical 
productions. 
Since World War II, the two 
main channels for drama sub­
sidies in London have been 
the National Theatre (NT) 
and the Barbican Centre, the 
home of the Royal Shake­
speare Company (RSC). 
The aims of subsidized 
theatre are twofold: to make 
the theatre affordable and ac­cessible to everyone and to allow the production of many works which would otherwise be too great of a financial risk for a commercial producer to undertake. 
The result of having both commercial and subsidized prod~ctions is the perpetua­tion of an incredibly vast and broad selection--everything from Shakespeare to Andrew Lloyd Webber. The theatre is utilized for purely artistic pursuits, for entertainment and as a social vehicle. 
Londoners frequent the theatre as regularly as many Americans attend the movies. Most theatres have money­saving schemes for students and senior citizens. In fact, the Leicester Square Ticket Booth sells tickets to personal callers on the day of the per­formance for half-price. 
Keeping abreast of what's on in London is no problem: London Theatre Guides can be found on almost every street corner, and the weekly "Time Out" contains a full listing as well as reviews of new productions. 
These conveniences make it even easier for patrons to turn to the theatre to be "en­largened, enlivened and en-, lightened." The most difficult task is deciding what to see. 
Speaking for myself and for any other prospective Notre Dame Londoner, the choice of what to see is very simple: Everything. 
Lager, ale and strongbow: the public house 
CHRIS COMPONOVO • AND BRIAN LAPPS accent writers 
W
e do not en­courage irrespon­sible drinking." Al­though the attitude of the London ad­ministration is the same as the one in South Bend, there is little that can be done to prevent the students from drinking in the United Kingdom. With a nationwide drinking age of 18 and a vari­ety of pubs to choose from, the pleasures of enjoying a "mellow night" out with the gang increases exponentially. 
With the closing of the Notre Dame Pub (which until this year had served beer during the day) the students were forced to turn elsewhere in order to have a drink. For­tunately, this task was not difficult as London is teeming with pubs. 
The word pub is derived from the term, "Public House," which carne into existence due to a growing need for a public meeting place where friends could gat­her and enjoy one another's company. As a result they are usually less crowded, more relaxed than United States bars and offer both lunch and dinner specials. 
It is not unusual to find people from all walks of life having chicken-n-chips or kidney-n-pork pie with a pint. Also English beer is served in a pint glass rather than in a measly 12 ounce American bottle. 
Along with a larger serving size comes a greater variety of beverages to choose from. 
Of course they come the traditional English way, 
anywhere from lukewarm to slightly chilled; beer taps dominate the length of the bar. Lager, the British term 
for what Americans consider regular beer, is plentiful yet nothing to write home about. (Not that we write anyway.) 
Bitter and brown ale, slightly stronger than Lager, and unique to Britain, are dis­pensed from ivory hand pumps. Bitter ale has a decreased amount of carbona­tion and its taste is pretty self -explanatory. Brown ale is distinctively flavored and usually does not sit well in American stomachs. 
For those strong of palate and heedless of calories, Guinness Extra Stout is al­ways available. The Notre Dame favorite is Strongbow, an alcoholic cider, which al­ways hits the mark. Live music, frequently available on Wednesday nights, en­hances the drinking experi­ence. 
For the homesick Domer who misses the smoke filled, overcrowded and overrated Bridget's, London provides its version, Ashes! 
If a pleasant English pub is more your liking, the Daniel Goch is close by (near Budgens supermarket). 
And for, a quick pint in be­tween classes, the Goat & Shelley's is right next door to school. 
As you can see, there are plenty of different places to be with friends plus enjoy a variety of drinks, and as you may have guessed this was the best research paper we have ever done. 
-~ ~----~-----------~ 
----~-----~--~--------~----------------~----------~ 
-etc. Friday, December 9, 1988 
Is Christmas another media event? 
D
o you ever get the feeling that Christmas is another media event, and that if it were left up to the churches to promote this feast, Christmas would get about as much attention as Groundhog's day? The priests can rant and rave all they want about putting Christ back into Christmas, but the priests need the Grinch, 
ween masks, and the malls turn into Toyland. In Manhat­tan, restaurants like Luc­how's feature their Christmas goose, and everyone goes to see Rockefeller Center and the toys in the window at 
F.A.O. Schwarz's. Religion doesn't have the money to compete with the businesses in setting up elaborate dis-

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

Rudolf, the little drummer 
boy, Santa Claus and the 
partridge in a pear tree, as 
much as the stores need 
them. 

The same hype that gets people to go shopping also gets them to go to Mass on Dec. 25. That's the pastor's­one big day, when he gets his share of the take, and it's only fair that he should. But does he know that every time Bing Crosby is on the radio, dreaming of a white Christmas, he makes it possi­ble for pastors to dream of having a green Christmas when the collection plates are passed? 
I'm not a cynic who is hanging a guilt trip on the clergy or endorsing Lucy Brown's opinion of Christmas as a racket run by an Eas­tern syndicate, but look what happens. The media blitz starts in October with "I Saw Mommie Kissing Santa Claus," and ends on Christmas Eve with Handel's "Messiah." By Christmas 
night you can tell that the 
disc jockeys are experiencing 
burn-out by the weariness in 
their voices as they introduce 
"Jingle Bell Rock" one last 
time. 

In the shopping centers, 
mistletoe replaces the Hallo-
plays honoring the Prince of 
Peace. St. Patrick's Cathe­
dral isn't a big tourist attrac­
tion the week before 

Christmas, unless the tourists 
stop there to make a visit on 
their way to see the camels 
and dromedaries on stage in 
the Christmas show at Radio 
City Music Hall. 
By the time the churches, 
finally finished with Advent, 
start their celebration of 
Christmas at Midnight Mass, 
the party's over for another 
year, as far as the people 
who don't pray are con­
cerned. At mid-afternoon on 
Dec. 25, the vendors are sell­
ing expensive wreaths and 
trees at a fraction of their 
original prices. By evening, 
they're giving them away. 
The next day, spruces that 
sold for fifty dollars apiece, 
are trash on the sidewalks 
waiting to be hauled to the 
dump. 
By Jan. 1, the world is 
thoroughly pagan again, and 
hung over from New Year's. 
Hallmark is huckstering St. 
Valentine's cards, and if it 
weren't for the bills, you'd 
never know there had been a 
Christmas. On Jan. 6, Cat-holies are wondering why on love seems incomparably beautiful. Believing in love, I can, as God's child, be at home with those who love me. If love is a lie, life itself is bad news, but "all the way to 

newspapers carry the inter­ to he resurrection, at a time  
view of a Scripture scholar  when my heart is listening,  
explaining the Christmas  and my mind isn't busy with  
story. It wouldn't be fair to  a million distractions. You  
say he de-mythologizes  recognize poetry, Emily Dick­ 
Christmas out of existence,  inson says, because when you 
but he does leave you to un­ read it, it takes the top of  
derstand that when theology  your head off. The Gospels  
is written as a story, you'd  are even more mindblasting.  
better not be literal in your  
understanding of the events.  You couldn't create a char­ 
Then he proceeds to write off  acter like Jesus, no matter  
as symbols a whole slate of  how good you were with  
characters, who are rather  words. If you were a writer,  
dear to Christians. This  you couldn't be enough of a  
shouldn't bother you, he says,  genius to invent those many  
if you appreciate the Gospels  scenes in which He says and  
as documents of faith. I'd  does unpredictable things.  
rather have the Magi back,  You couldn't create a hero  
and the shepherds, and  with enough stature to be  
Blessed Mary the Virgin over­ credible as God's son, not  
shadowed by the Holy Spirit,  even if you were Shake­ 
and Joseph as the putative  speare. How poor theology  
would be if He had never  
lived. Of what other teacher  
If the world for­ could it be said, in the say it was said of Jesus: "He has  
gets His birth as soon as the  the words of eternal life." They said it of Him after seeing Him read their deepest  
Christmas gifts are exchanged, it's  thoughts, and hearing Him teach truth that left their hearts singing, for they  
because the world has a limited at­ believed that he brought them insights from the depth of His communion with God, after a  
tention span.  night spent in prayer on the mountain.  
father, accompanying the lad  Why shouldn't I trust Him  
and His mother on the flight  when He says: "I go to  
into Egypt. I don't care if  prepare a palace for you ... in  
Luke was wrong in his  my Father's house, there are  
chronology of the tetrarchs.  many mansions ... God so  
On Christmas, let me be a  loved the world that He gave  
fundamentalist, just for the  His only-begotten Son ...  
day! Textual criticism, if it's  Greater love than this, no one  
reverent, gives you back  has, that he lay down his lift  
more comfort than it takes  for a friend."? His teaching  
away, but I don't want it bug- 

I don't care if Luke was wrong in his chronology of the tetrarchs. On Christmas, let me be a fundamen­talist, just for the day! 
heaven is heaven, if Christ is the Way." If the world for­gets His birth as soon as the Christmas gifts are ex­changed, it's because the world has a limited attention span. 
The paraphrase of a poem is much less wonderful than the poem itself. The exegesis of Scripture is less wonderful than the Scripture itself. The Gospels are documents of faith, but a paraphrase or exegesis of the Gospel isn't a document of faith. If you want to learn about the mys­tery and beauty of Christmas, you should read the accounts left by the evangelists, who told the story first. The story they gave us had the star, the Magi, the angels, and the rest. If you leave them out of Christmas, you could lose your direction on the way to the Christ Child. What would Bethlehem be without the stars shining down? 
ging me when I'm hanging my stocking with care. So 
SObering Advice~:
what if the Bible is wrong; there's always Medjugorje. Is Christmas, then, a media event? I spend most of Ad­
~~~: ~!!fC~~ 

• . • 
:![IW~ 
+ May your day be as • 
: happy as you make so : 
• many others' •
. ----------------· 
• We love you! • : Dad, Mom, Lisa : 
More people 
have survived 
cancer than 

HEY GIRLS ...... AFTER YOU'RE DONE
now live in 

WITH FINALS, COME 
the City of 

WISH
Los Angeles. 

SCO,... LINDLEY
We are winning. 
(AKAAiiN,{jpiON) 
BIR,.HDAY.
AMERICAN
I
~CANCER 

ITS DECEMBER 16TH 
'fSOCIETY" 

(Scott-You knew I'd find this--your roomie) 
The 

Observer 
they're singing "0 Come All vent feeling that way. Then, Ye Faithful" when they go if I'm lucky, God's grace 
Before YOU Drive " .
to church for Epiphany. catches up with me, and I It doesn't help when the re th stor , from the birth 
....................~.-...-....-.,...-.~~~~-...-. ..........••..•...... 



Friday, December 9, 1988 The Observer page 15 
-
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
I need 2 Fiesta Bowl GA's. Call272-4223. HAPPY HOLIDAYS GOOD LUCK, "KNOTTers" on all your
HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND finals, and remember, the key toNOTICES WANTED FREE 2 tickets SoBd to Chicago to HAPPY NEW YEAR Jacqul avoiding extreme stress is to take SanFran to Eugene, OR Dec.16. Pay for AND frequent breaks--join us in the lobby from ACADEMICtiUSINESS TYPING ad & they're yours. 277-5616 HAPPY FIESTA BOWL 11-12 each night during finals week for OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. LOVE, AMY (COPY CENTER) study breaks filled with fun and excite­
237-1949 Summer, Vr.round,AII Countries, All Round Trip ftight from S. Bend to Mnnpls. FaFi·s;;L:E~o-NE..w'Av··;;u;·NE..:rici<Ei-ment! (FREE food, tool) 
fields. F1111 Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-GOOD LUCK, EVERYONE!
call Pat# 1489 from Newark to South Bend on Jan. 16­

IN04-Corona Del Mar, CA 92625
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL NDWRAPPINGPAPER MUST SELL, best offer. Call Laura 284­MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 5417.
Need a very cheap one-way ticket to L.A. !SHERE!! DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO 
for Christmas break? Call Bob at 16641 Santa Claus wants to know whether COLORADO CHRISTMAS. 
nice!?! The

Typist-Experienced, Fast-Letter Quality­FOR CAN CHECK IT OUT! To the # 1 Notre Dame Football Team you've been "KNOTTy" or 
SHARE GAS AND sale Knott Hall Government would like to wish 
Will pick up-~58-Q369 Fiesta Bowl Ticket for Must be AT THE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE! Thank you. You guys are incredible. I
DRIVING. DAYS FLEXIBLE. CAN PRO­
female with brpwn hair & brown eyes Call IT IS THE PERFECT don't recognize you wijhout your num­all Knott Hall resi-dents and the whole VIDE STOPOVER FOR THOSE GOING 
MERRY CHRISTMAS FARTHER WEST. CALL PETE AT 283­
SEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY Maria 2615. GIFT FOR GIFTS! bers on, or I'd tell you all in person, but campus a very 
HAPPY a BALL. THIS MIGHT NOT SEEM IMPOR­4601. I NEED FIESTA BOWL TIXS. 272-6306 and thrilled you've made me (and WONDERFUL break!!! TANT. BUT BELIEVE ME. IT IS. IF YOU, I need 12 PORK-FACED SATAN T-shirts thousands of others) with your ac­
CARTRIDGES ESPECIALLY FOOT­(not available the bookstore) words can't describe how happy, excited, and A NEW YEAR! Have 
We need the following ND football
OR ANYONE YOU KNOW CAN HELP, for X-mas-Others maybe Call (912)-786-complishments this year. You've brought MK: GOOD LUCK TONIGHT AND WITH 
memorabilia: Any GA stubs from any FINALS. MY· XMAS WISH: THINGS
THE MONETARY REWARD WILL BE 7358 p.m. tears of joy to my eyes and given a new 
home games; Pictures of "Nobody WERE DIFFERENT LOVE ..
GREAT. CALL 277-6224. PERSONALS meaning to the term "school spirit." You 
Leaves ND II' 1" banner during Miami TO THE GRAND all deserve the merriest Christmas ever,
game; Photos of Hogs playing in mud on
0 holy St. Jude. Apostle and Martyr great DUCHESS:P.M.R.STOP HEARD THE a spectacular New Year, and a National in virtue and rich in miracle near kinsman UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277-8889 LATEST,YOUR THE GREATEST. Championship. I'll be there to cheer you 
field after Penn State. We will pay you lor these items. Please call Chris at 283­
of Jesus Christ, faithful intercessor of all THANkS FOR MAKING THIS A FUN on. Congratulations, Good Luck, and who iinvoke your special patronage in MATH TUTOR-234-3878. SEM. GOOD LUCK WITH FINALS. MR. God Bless.
3169 or Pete at 283-4601. time of need. To you I have recourse ...............................................:................ oc. A grateful student and fanatic fan 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 
CLUB 23 Stop by lor dinner or drinks blocks from campus. PANDORA'S
from the depth of my heart and humbly 
with friends this week. SMC X-MAS BAZAAR all week in MISS PAMELA GILCHRIST BOOKS 808 Howard St. Just off N.D. HAPPY BIRTHDAYIIIIIII beg to whom God has give such great 
LeMans 9-5 get your shopping done 
petition. In rreturn I promise to make your Ave. Ph# 233-2342 hlag. here. Dear Santa, HAPPY BIRTHDAY!III!ll name known and cause you to be in­Are you Lou? II ao, please bring us a power to come to my present and urgent 
Are you from the Detrort Area and looking 
voked. (3 Our Fathers, 3 Hail Marys, 3 Are you going to SE Florida or vicinity national champlonahlp. We know roadtrip
Glorias). St. Jude pray for us and all who for a person to share the to PRAY TO ST. JUDE for Christmas? If so, I can give you a you've been ao good to us In the past, --HEY SEXY-­
Tempe with for the game Well, call Kelley A warning: Be good in your celebration
invoke your aid. Amen. Publication must OF ride BOTH ways or one way BACK to but II you do just this one thing, -·11 be promised. This novena has never at # 1779. I'm willing to go and return Notre Dame if you can help share driving never ask lor anything el.. again. techniques or else you won't get any on any date as long as it includes Jan presents from SANTA nor any chocolate 
and gas $$. Please call 283-2892 ASAP. 3! chip cookies from mel! HAPPY
been known to fail Say it 9 consecutive The "Lou for Sante" Committee 
days. My request has been granted ADOPT: Answer • prayer lor your BIRTHDAY IIIIIbsby-thlld to share lovnecurlty In GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID 
Need a ride to D.C. and a merry happy home. Expen..s pattY con· TODAY!! 12:15 PM et DOME STEPS Christmas!Piease help with first. Call Shannon Poley says of herseH: I mean beyond all possible belief. JPH 
lldentlal1egal. Call collecl 415-325-Come to the last vigil of ..mesterl Mike x3574.Will share usual. 9288. NEED RIDE TO I can be a ditz but at least I'm creative 
RIDER NEEDED TO CENTRAL NEW CHICAGONORTHWEST SUBURB about it! 
Need ride back to ND from Florida on Merry Christmas Shannon!!
( LOST/FOUND I 
ELIZABETH, ELENA, CLAUDIA, JOHN, JERSEY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. WED.14AFTER6PMWILLPAY$CALL January 1. NDFC, etel: CALL SUZANNE AT X4253. MARIA 284-5410 Call Brenda 239-6193
LOST: a gold-laced Timex watch HAPPY HOLIDAYS! 
No Chrtatmu In Killarney (or Dublin) I am SUPERMAN, and I know what's Riders Needed! to East Gate 11, Canton 
burgandy band, Roman nume<al& Le&l Iota on 111.10 either near lor me, but Paris, Rome, & Greece In­There's always tomorrow 
happening. I am SUPERMAN, and I can Ohio Leaving Friday at 1:OOp.m. x4189 FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR For dreams to come true Theresa
LeMen'& ahuttte atop, on shuttle or be­stead. See you In Jan. do ANYTHING! 
2ND SEMESTER. PRIVATE ROOM IN Believe in your dreams, come whattween Main Circle and South 
GREAT ..ntlmentel value, REWARD 3 BR HOUSE. WALK TO NO. 234-4961 BUYISELL FIESTA BOWL. BUY IIG-250, may Happy Belated Birthday Mary Jen and Julie in Farley 4AI Have fun in FOR DETAILS. There's always tomorrow Have a great Christmas! your respective adventures! We'll miss
PLEASE cell Matt II' 3610 SELL 125-400. 
AIR & HOTEL AVAILABLE. With so much ro do Love, your pal Sal you! Love, your section! Female graduate student seeks room­And so little #me in a day
THE TICKET EXCHANGE, TEMPE mate to share apt at Castle Point Apts 800-727-3287, We all pretend the rainbow has an James-God Bless you and excuse you 
for spring semester. Call Laura at 2899 end ALICE It's my tum for a bowl joke so beware in FOUND: Two jackets. (actually,these 
for details. And you'll be there my friend Tempel! I'll spend all of break thinking of were taken accidentally by a few intox­
MATEO'S SUB SHOP someday ALICE LOHRER I cruqe things other than youicated H.S. friends from Sr. bar the Sat. 
I DESPERATELY need a round trip ride FREE DELIVERY There's always tomorrowof Penn St. game.) Please call J.C. at to Central NJ for break. Will pay big $$$. 271-oSUB For dreB.ms to come true ALICE LOHRER TURNS 21 II The Pocono Lodge, Where Colleen Hen­1001 
Call Jeff at 1895 "THE EASTERN STYLE SUB" Tomorrow is not far away nessey is our favorite Birthday Yetill ALICE LOHRER TURNS 21 DEC. 26 love. lmdLOST: set of dorm and car keys on bud­
Need rider to S. Louisiana area for break. Brought to you by the NO Chapter Move over Resa, give Alice some spaceweiser and N.D. class of '44 keyring. 
Call Paul 2o59 CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS of the Christmas Special Fan Club on the bathroom floor Ill
Please call X1661 DELIVERED TO YOUR SWEETIE MERRY CHRISTMAS -your pal, Christopher GABY CLARK 
WANTED:MAGNAVOX ODESSEY Come In and choo.. a stocking, 1111 It (SLUSH!)
LOST:Rhinestone necklace somewhere CARTRIDGES PARTICULARLY FOOT­with goodies and top It with mistletoe! Happy 19th Birthday. BALL. GOD WILL LOOK KINDLY UPON Let ua deliver It lor you anywhere on Debbie, Monlkll, and Jacqul JULIANA-Thanks for being such a great It's NEVER a fantasy!
between Knott hall, Morrissey hall, and 
D-1 parking lot on Friday, Dec. 2. Please 
YOU IF YOU HELP. YOU'LL BE PAID, the Notre Dame or St. Mary's campus. Thanks for being such great room­roomie. I'll miss you next semester. Love, Love-Nan and George
call ~ found-4959. 
TOO. CALL 277-6224 mates. Merry Christmas and Happy New Steff The Country Harvester Year. I need a ride to the SOUTHERN ILLINOIS LaFortune Student Center baaement Cindy (your invisible roomie) To all the Lewis chicks and all the other NIKKOL
FOUND: AT SENIOR FORMAL, very nice 
area. Call Babs x2728 Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30 pm people who make N.D. so special-l'm Not all ND men are immature­man's watch.Call x1347 or 277-6224 to 
239-6714 ·going to miss you all. Steff Just the ones we know.
ident~. 
Responsible babysitter needed for two GCB adorable boys (ages 2 and 5) for MWF To the sexy babe on page 3 of Tuesday's HELP!! I NEED RIDERS TO SOUTHSEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY 
afternoons next semester. Call Tracey at THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS TOUCH Observer--FLA. FOR XMAS. WILL SHARE $ ANDCARTRIDGES, ESPECIALLY FOOT­
277-4517. great caption wasn't it? Have a Merry DRIVING. PLEASIO CALL KEVIN There's no place like home-I want to goBALL. THE IMPORTANCE OF FINDING 
_ "REAL MISTLETOE" Christmas and a great New Year. I'll think x1540!!1 back to Kansas, well, actually, CINCIN­THIS CANNOT BE OVERSTATED. IF 
of you while I'm in Tempe. Maybe Santa NATI sounds better. will pay $$$$$1YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL 277­
RIDER NEEDED: to Philadelphia area at will make a stop at my place before MERRY CHRISTMAS Please call Jen oil 2550.
6224 
on 12-16. Christmas to get some milk and cookies To all the Who's down in The Country Harveater before he states he has to leave in 3 "Oh-ville" ANN JEANNE FRANCO BEA & RICHDid some gentleman forget a blazer at 
LaFortune Student Center basement seconds. Good luck on finals and YA Thanks for some wonderful moments this the Lyons Hall SYR last Sat.? Please 
Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30pm BAC LYUBLYU! Love, semester. It has been the beat! I'm see Sr. Jeannine, the rector of Lyons, to Max looking forward to New Year's Eve.
claim your jacket. FOR SALE 
All my love, RATPICK-IF YOU COME BACK FROM ROOMATE FOR SALE kerry PLANE TICKET, ONE-WAY OR ROUND LONDON A HIPPIE YOUR DAD WILL ATTENTION all of you out there There once was a girl named TRIP S.B. TO WHITE PLAINS,N.Y. 12114 BEAT YOU SENSELESS AND THEN who could u.. an extra hand HOODECHECK 
MERRY CHRISTMAS ANDREWIFOR RENT RETURN Vt7. CHEAP!! CALL JIM AT I'LL GET MY TURN. T.J. AND I WENT around the room, or someone To computer lab she said, "Yeck!" She'll 
SEE YOU IN LA 277-9956 4 WHEELIN' LAST NIGHT AT 3 A.M. to run errands, clean, etc, tum 21 After finals have begun, But don't 
LOVE, S WE'LL TELL YOU THAT STORY etc..we have just what you need worry, she'll drink,HOUSE AVAILABLE 2ND SEMESTER 
IBM PC-DUAL FLOPPY DISK DRIVE, LATER. ... HASBY Want to get the perfect Xmas. what the heck!
AND 1989-90. WELL MAINTAINED, KELLY,
PRINTER, MONOCHROME MONITOR. gilt lor that special roomie? Love, Jane & Jill
FURNISHED, SECURE. UP TO 5 YOU'RE IN OUR$1400. AFTER 6 PM 289-1238. MAY THE JOY OF THE SEASON BE For a limited time only -have
BEDROOMS WASHEIMIRYER. THOUGHTS AND PRAYERS.
IN YOUR HEARTS THROUGHOUT THE 1 healthy male foe 88fa CHEAP!
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE WE LOVE YOU!
MUST SELL-1976 Pontiac Grand Prix NEW YEAR. HAVE A SAFE HOLIDAY! lllntereated plaaM cell# 3610 Debbie Whirl
RENT. 264-e010. S,P,C,B,S,M,P,G
AC,stereo,good condition.$70CJ.best Call and oak lor MR. EXTRAORDINARY, Merry Christmas!!!!!! Jeff 3151 HAPPY HOLIDAYS he REALLY Ia! Love, Cindy 
PRIVATE ROOM AVAILABLE IN Margaret S.-Today is our quarter anniver­LARGE 4 BR STUDENT HOUSE ON sary; 3 months to the day; and each new
from your friends at Round trip ftight to PHEONIX from THE COUNTRY HARVESTER
NO AVE. GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD. day wrth you is as priceless as the last. 
Chicago Midway 12-28 to Mi. $300 or Steve Megargee
FOR INFO 259-7801 DAYS, 255-5852 Thomas C. 
best offer. Call # 2332 anytime TOP TEN REASONS TO SEE Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
EVENINGS. 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER has the TEN LITTLE INDIANS One little, two I'll miss you next semester. And all your 
PUDDLES: Don~ spend too much time 3 bdrrn house close to campus. New car­in your special room on yourspecial seat
HAVE 5 ROUND TRIP TICKETS TO perfect Christmas gilts lor tho.. spe­little, three boxes, boxes, boxes! FIESTA LEAVING DEC. 31-cial people In your life. Conveniently little Indians, ect.et.al I'm sure you know who 
pet, paint, wallpaper, appliances. because it's your b-day! Have great one! RETURNING JAN. 4 $300 ROUNDTRIP located In the LaFortune Student Cen­
$500tno. plus dep. No pets. 289-Q1 09. We love youiPokey&Lush-R
CALL 1811 ASK FOR RODGER ter beaement. Open Mon-Frl-12 noon-Need I say more? A mystery in three 
································································ Need Ride To PH ILLY for Break. Can
FEMALE STUDENT TO SHARE HOUSE 6:30pm. acts Happy 21st B-day Irene Quinn! Love,
1980 CHEVETTE, CLEAN, LOW By St. Edward's Hall Players leave Wed. 14. Call Dan 1765
with Notre Dame alumna. Easy walking Murph, Liz, Piggy, Sue, Lynard
MILEAGE 277 5598 EVENINGS Happy (Almost) Birthday, John! Coming Soon After Break 
distance Notre Dame. Available I Janu­ary. $150 month, including utilrties. Groove wijh the Groovette and wish her
To the only student who can say MUST SELL planeticket one-way of ro he's really been to the Dome. LEOSKI
Phone: 232 0743. LEOSKI LEOSKI Do you re­a Happy 21st B-day! Call Irene at 284­
round trip, S.B. to Washington D.C. or Have a great day (next week)! NORTH JERSEY CLUB I member: 5094 
Raleigh 12-20 return VI 3. Very Cheap! -The TV Cri6c and NORTH JERSEY CLUB I I chew on anything I get my hands 
RENT HS FOR 2ND SEM. NEAR Call Marcelina 2833294 His Roomie NORTH JERSEY CLUB! on. Top 10 reasons to call Marianne Rya on BRIDGETS. $425 MO PLUS UTILmES. 5 star general. 
her 21st Birthday at 284-5094: 10.11 

3 BDRMS, 2 BTHS. 234-4318. Buick Skyhawk, automatic, low miles, The Notre Dame Club of North Jeraey Chipmunk cheeks. 
you're big and bad 9.6 kids and a housePvC, amfm stereo. 272-6306 Happy Birthday to Jan Neruda-a sophis­will be hoatlng e Fleate Bowl Party Olive Pij. 
in Connecticut are your dream too B.You 

ticated 22 on January 1st. Monday, Jan. 2, beginning til 4 pm Mom, take the picture! 7.You like
want to fly like Murphy can 

Kim Nugent dolls (with spring head) on (game Uma Is 5 pm EST) In the Preas Who do you suggest I ask? 
black pants & a red sweater 6.You are1 OR 2 BDRM, 2ND STORY DUPLEX 

sale TODAY only TODAY IS KIM NUGENTS BIRTHDAY Lounge of Giant Stadium In the New You do? WELL GO HOME!! Happy 
the son of the 35th pres. of US 5.You

APT. OOWNTOWN SO. BEND NEAR 
contact the Ratpack for details Jersey Meadowlands. All NO atudents, Birthdayll Love, Lizzy, Kel, Mare look for flexibility in a woman 4.You arePARKS, BUSINESS, ON BUS LINE, 
their lemlllea, alumni and friends are 
QUIET STREET. NO PETS. S27stro. a 3330 3.You are a self taught musician KIM cordially lnvltad. WHAT IS THE CHRISTMAS NAZZ? 
2. You have a 17 1/.! inch neck 1.The

PLUS UTIUTIES. LOTS OF STORAGE 
ij's your birthday Over 250 lrlah aupportera attended a If's a perfect study break Irish Princess is LEGAL!
PLUS BASEMENT ACCESS. LEASE 
WILL YA STOP SPITTING similar event held lor the NO -usc Traditional and Original carols 
REQ'D THRU MAV '89. RENEWABLE FOR ADD'L 12 MOS. PHONE 256-0608. TICKETS Call Kim Nugent at 3882 game end • good lime was had by all. Christmas readings and... Happy 21st to a wonderfully tunny friend! 
Coat of $15 In advance Includea bullet 
THE GRINCH Ill 
Love, Liz, Irene, Piggy, Lynerd, Sue dinner. Sat 12110 Bpm Keenan Hall basement
to wish her a HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
and find out why we call her 
Further fnlonnatlon on thll event can 
JIM RUSS, Roommate wanted to share 3 bedroom Just heard the "BIG SECRET"­
BUYING FIESTA BOWL SPIT 
be obtained by ceiling the NO North 
TOP$ PAID 
house.$140 per month. 287-4240 Jereey Hotline Ill 201-888-M0021. FOR SALE: Round trip airline CONGRATULATIONS on your new
900-289-2481. 
Please make checkll payable to NO ticket to Tempe from Ft.Wayne 
baby! Love and Best Wishes, Apt. ,_, NO. Remodeled, heel Incl., North Jereey Club and 11111d to: or Chicago through Denver. the Training Room Staff 
KIM SAYS: Love bites 

································································ NO North Jereey Club
gerege extra. cozy efficiency $230. For Fiesta Bowl. (By the way, Trisha, Nicole, Kim Shan­
WANTED: 1 OR 2 FIESTA BOWL TIX Love bleeds ob Joe MacDonnell, President $320 Call X2681
234-8585 ll-5pm. non, and Patty are great names! 
BV NO ALUM, $125 EA. (415) 781-9570 BLOOD DRIES 
409 Center Street 

EXT. 4132 DAYS OR EVENING 
Wood·Ridge, NJ 07075

Apt. ,_r NO. Remodeled, heel Incl., MOOSE!
(COLLECT) AT (415) 456-9240. 
LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING YOU To the beat roomies aver,
g•rege extra. cozy efficiency $230. MOOSE!
Young Frenchman desperately seeking 
234-8585 9-5pm. THEREIll Madeleine and Bridget, MOOSE!
AIRLINE TICKET S.B TO companionship, enjoys evening strolls 
GO IRISHII 

I'm going to miaa you guys so muchl 
Happy 19th Birthday, Mona Alviar Clean 4 bedroom house for Spring 89 Have a great Christmas and a Happy Love, BP Weens 
SARASOTA,FL and dinner by candlelight. Would like to 
12123i18-wt!9 ROUND TRIP $250 share a week of intimacy with a warm,
Safe location, just remodeled. lur nished. CLAIR DRULEY Naw Year. ..be ready to do some serious
X7575 sincere person. CaN Jean-Francois at redecorating when we get back! 
233-9947 or 287-3530. 287-4240 to arrange. GOOD LUCK AT PURDUE! 
Love ya,
Need 4 FIESTA Bowl Tix. Will pey. WE'LL MISS YOUIII 
Etizabeth
Furnished rooms & a 2-bedroom home 259-2512 5-10 P.M. Laurie A.B. Hollenbeck Happy 21stlll THE QUAD near campus.272-6306 Love Always, Steve See CLASS, page 20 
• 

-
The Observer Friday, December 9, 1988
page 16 

Our Holiday Promotion Is aReal Catch 

Modell Mode/20 Mode/40 
W/3.5"floppy W/20Mb hard drive w/40Mb hard drive
Computer Center 
3.5" jlvppy 3.5" floppy 
Room 25 Math Building 
w/ZMM-149 Amber or White Phosplter monitor Reg. $1599 $1899 $2299
8:00AM-5:00PM 
Now $1499 $1799 $2199 
w/ZCM-1390 RGB Analog color monitor Reg. $1799 $2099 $2499 Now $1699 $1999 $2399 

w/ZCM-1490 FI'M color monitor 
data 
Reg. $1899 $2199 $2599
systems 
Now $1849 $2149 $2549 
Offer good thru Dec. 3/, I 988 

THE QUALilY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON • 
MS.Wi~dows and MS.£M?S _are re-gistered lrademarb of MicnMOft Corp. Spe-cial priciq ofit:>r good only on purchases directly through Zenith Contacds) listed above by students. faculty and staff for their own use No other d1acounta apply. Lim1t one penonal computer and one monitor per individual in any 12-month period. Priers subject to change without notice. © 1988, Zenith Dahl System• 


Friday, December 9, 1988 The Observer page 17 
Connor satisfied after switching to football team ­
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
The chance to play on a na­tional championship team can overshadow a lot of missed op­portunities. 
Notre Dame back-up punter Sean Connor is learning just that this season. Connor, a senior from Zeigler, Ill., gave up his spot on the Irish basket­ball team to try to win the pun­ting job on the football team. 
And despite the fact that Jim Sexton won the starting posi­tion this fall, and Connor has punted only two times for a total. of 63 yards, Connor's ver­dict on his decision is that is definitely w.as a good thing. 
"I had the desire to play foot­ball," Connor says. "I'd missed it since high school, and I wanted to play again. The punter (Vince Phelan) graduated, and the job was open. I thought maybe there 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Fiesta Bowl will be played at 2:30p.m. MST on Jan. 2. The time was switched Thursday after originally being scheduled for 3 p.m. MST. -Associated Press 
The Late Night Olympics will be Friday, Jan. 27. Signups will be held immediately after semester break. For more information, see your dorm rep. -The Observer 
The NO Women'sTrackClubwantsthosemembers who have not received a copy of workouts over break to pick up a copy in 201 Howard. The first meet will be on Jan. 20. Members also need to bring completed insurance forms and proof of insurance back from Christmas break. Without this information, members will not be able to participate in meets. For details, call Wendy at 684-4052. 
-The Observer 
~po~s Briefs are acc~pted in writing Sunday through Fnday m The Observer offtces on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 

After your first 100 copies ofone original at the regular price, the rest are halfprice.
kinko·s· 
the copy center 
18187 State Road 23 
On January 1st. Eurallpass rates go up Buy your pass 1n December and you'll still be able to stan uSing It anyt1me before July 1. 1989. Call us fo:-. details on Eurall. ~dget flights. lnt'l Student I. D. Cards, study and 'MJrk abroad programs. 
CoanciiTravel 
831 Foster Evanston, IL 60201 312-475-5070 29 E. Delaware Chicago, IL 60611 312-951-0585 

would be a chance that I could win the job." 
Connor played football at Zeigler-Royalton High School in southern Illinois, earning four letters at quarterback, safety and punter as captain of the team for three years. As a sophomore, he led his team to a 12-0 record and the Illinois Class A state title. 
The success may be trans­formed into a national title, but Connor will have a lesser role. 
"I tried too hard early," Con­nor says. "Punting is similar to a golf swing. You have to have a smooth swing to get the b(!st results. I wasn't doing that. I was trying too hard, and it showed. 
''There was some pressure, but it was all pressure I put on myself. None of it came from the outside. It was all from myself. It's easy to say after the season that I could've done something different, but the first time, you can't say that. I had to prove to myself I could 
Connor 

play, and I tried a little too hard." Despite biding his time on the sidelines, Connor doesn't regret his decision. 
"It's been quite an experi­ence," he says. "I am having a great time and learning a lot 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
during Christmas break. Fol­lowing is a capsule preview of each of these games: VAL­PARAISO: Notre Dame will try to continue its history of suc­cess against Valparaiso when it visits the Athletics &Recrea­tion Center. 
The Irish hold a 30-1 all-time record against the Crusaders, including an 8849 rout last year in the JACC. Valpo last defeated Notre Dame during the 1920-21 season, toppling the Irish 32-26 in a low-scoring af­fair. 
First-year coach Homer Drew leads a Crusader team that went 12-16 a year ago. In a pre-season exhibition game, Valpo routed Zadar of Yugos­lavia, a team Notre Dame defeated 81-78 in a pre-season contest. 
PENNSYLVANIA: The Irish head for the famed Palestra on Jan. 3 to face a Pennsylvania team that already has pulled 
~tBI1(cr1-{tJJ!4'Y CL!4I1(f£ 1(!4rrj[A£!411 

Love 
fl'om 
·-• •. •. f -; ~ • ,. • •• .!_ • •. 
about the game. Being unde­feated and playing in the Fiesta Bowl, that would be enough to make anyone happy.'' 
Connor arrived at Notre Dame as one of the best small­school basketball players in Il­linois. As a high school junior, he led the state in scoring with 
33.5 points per game and was a two-time all-state selection. He averaged 28.4 points and 9.6 rebounds a game his senior year, and and he came toNotre Dame to join a team that in­cluded David Rivers, Donald Royal, Gary Voce and Ken Bar­low. 
The team Connor left was completely different from the 1985-86 team. Connor would have been the only senior on the team. 
"The basketball team is fun to watch this year," Connor said. "I know the guys on the team are very excited. I think 
off one major upset this season. 
Led by Walt Frazier III, this Ivy League school stunned Vil­lanova earlier this week. Frazier, a 6-2 guard, is one of four lettermen returning from last year's 10-16 squad. 
Center Hassan Duncombe, guard Tyrone Gilliams and guardforward Dane Watts also return for Penn. 
SAN FRANCISCO: Notre Dame begins a three-game West Coast swing Jan. 7 in Memorial Gymnasium, where the Irish will meet the Dons of the West Coast Athletic Confer­ence. 
San Francisco is 3-2 after winning its first three games. Since opening the season with victories over Pan American, Idaho State and California­Irvine, the Dons have fallen to California and Nevado-Reno. -Mark McCathrion, a 6-8 senior forwardlcenter, is moving up the USF all-time scoring list with over 1,000 points during his San Francisco career. Since recovering from an ankle injury, McCathrion (co-captains) Jamere 
(Jackson) and Joe (Fredrick) would have been team leaders no matter who was playing on the team. 
"I see those guys a lot. They're excited, and I'm ex­cited for them. We still talk about the team a lot. I played with some of them for two years, and basketball was fun." 
Connor averaged four points a game and started five of his 27 games as a junior, and he scored six points per contest as a sophomore. He lettered in basketball each of his three years with the team, but in 1988, it was time for a change of scenery. 
"No one could have an­ticipated the season the foot­ball team was going to have,'' he says. "Being undefeated makes my decision that much better to me." 

has scored in double figures in all four games which he has played. 
PORTLAND: The Irish head for the Chiles Center on Jan. 9 to play their third game in a week, meeting a Pilots team that has had its share of prob­lems recently. 
Following a 6-22 1987-88 season in the West Coast Ath­letic Conference, Portland has lost its first five games this year. 
Portland's woes can be par­tially attributed to its early­season schedule. The Pilots' first five games have included four matchups with Pac-10 Conference schools--Oregon State, Southern California, Oregon and Washington State. 
UCLA: When Notre Dame heads to Pauley Pavilion on Jan. 14 for its annual meeting with UCLA, the Irish will face a team that has recovered quite nicely from its disappointing 1987-88 season. 
With Walt Hazzard at the helm last year, the Bruins went 16-14 and failed to earn a bid to the NCAA tournament. UCLA has jumped out to a 4-0 start this year under new coach Jim Harrick, formerly of Pepper­dine. 
The Bruins have defeated Texas Tech, Miami, Brigham Young and Boston University with none of the games being decided by less than 10 points. 
Junior Trevor Wilson, a 6-8 forward, averages 20.5 points and 10.8 rebounds per game to lead UCLA in both categories. Freshman 6-10 forward Don McLean averages 20.3 points and 9.3 rebounds per game. 
Junior Kevin Walker, another 6-10 forward, is averaging 14 points a game, while senior point guard Jerome "Pooh" Richardson averages 13.3 points a game with 38 assists on the year. 
The Notre Dame-UCLA skir­mish will be televised nation­ally by NBC at 2:30p.m. EST. 
Thank you for your thoughtfulness. We had a great time! 
Love the O'Briens 
Mike Linda ~ari John 
Christina (j'ft.\)c¥­
aa~ John Greg 
•. •..._

. .. ·~ ~ ' .. ' 



r---~--~------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer Friday, December 9, 1988 

Enter the Zenith Data Systems 

~ERSof 
INNOVATION 
COMPETITION 
Win a $5,000* Zenith Computer System. 
\ \.c.t<: -.,c; 1n hi ng· I( >r I< >Ill< >IT<>\\\ i111 H >\at< >r". II \olt\c dc\clnpcd or uscd soliwan.· or hanh,·an.·-that is compatible with /.cnit!J Ibt;t S\ stcms 1m >ducts-I<> creatin·h address a pn )hiem <>r task in ~-< ntr IicId <>I s11u h. \' t · ''a11 t to !Jc;u· li·o111 ' <HI. '·<HI n nil< I '' in ; 1 S:).( )( )( r:' Zenith Ilata SYstems e< nn puter s~·st em f( )J' yourseIf; S:->.IHHf' wo11h ofcomputer equipment l(>r \our college campus hrl\'Cil in \our name. ;111d national recog11ition hum \our peers. 
For More Information And Official Rules, Calll-800-553-0301. Competition Ends March I, 1989. Void Where Prohibited. 

data 
/ 
systems 
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON' 
'l'ntt· \,lltlt", t..N·d 'Ill' 11111'111 I 1'111111 I1.11.1 ""It'll~\. ,1,11111.11 d l'lltlt .Ill• oll.llpn• Ill~ .\lht•ll Fimlt'Ul li• 1'11\l'(l h\ lllt' Rogt•J Ridun;ul .\gt'llt"\, tm.-1\t•\"t'rh Hills. ( ::\. () 19M. Zenith Data Svstems 
l_ 
-------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday. December 9, 1988 The Observer 
Irish busy over break 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will play nearly one-third of its regu­lar season schedule (eight games) between now and the return from semester break. 
Led by · senior Heidi Bunek, who is averaging 20 points and 7.3 rebounds for the first three games, Notre Dame plays five of the eight games on the road. 
After a week off for finals, the Irish, 3-1 after Wednes­day's 70-66 win over Mar­quette, will host the Toledo Rockets at 7:30 p.m. Mon­day, Dec. 19. 
The Irish then take to the road for two games before the new year, against James Madison and Youngstown State. Jan. 3 marks the return of the Irish to the Joyce ACC, to host the In­diana Hoosiers at 7:30 p.m. 
The Hoosiers hold a 2-1 se­ries advantage over the Irish, who lost to Indiana 62­59last season. The Hoosiers are led by 5-7 senior guard Ann Mooney, who averaged 
8.1 points per game last season, and 5-11 forward Pam Fritz, who averaged eight points and four rebounds per contest in the 1987-8 season. 
After a game against Van­derbilt in Nashville, the Irish will host perennial wo­men's basketball power Old Dominion, which has fallen on hard times this season but is nonetheless one of the top programs in the country. 
Midwest Collegiate Con­ference play begins for the Irish on Thursday, Jan. 12 at Evansville, followed by an­other road contest at St. Louis on Saturday, Jan. 14. 
Wrestlers bound for Florida 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team will be looking for a few presents this Christmas vaca­tion. Mainly, in the form of vic­tories on the mat. 
It will compete in five matches over break, four of those on the road. At the end of December, the wrestlers will escape winter and travel to Tampa, Fla. for the Sunshine Open. This is the first appear­ance for the Irish in the Open, which was won by Edinboro State last year. Over 40 teams will be present including many of the top Eastern power­houses. 
Once again, the Irish will be led by a trio of seniors: Pat Boyd, Jerry Durso, and Chris Geneser. Geneser and Durso are both looking for their third straight invitation to the NCAA tournament. Last weekend in Las Vegas Invitational, Boyd won fourth place, Durso fifth, and Geneser seventh. 
Head Coach Fran McCann is expecting the Irish to do well over break, especially in the dual meets. The Sunshine Open is the highlight of the break. 
"This (Sunshine Open) is a comparable tournament to Las Vegas in terms of the number of teams, but it will be a little different field," said McCann. "We will get to compete against a number of schools we haven't seen yet, and it is im­portant for our guys to see what's out there in terms of tal­ent before they get to nation­als." 
Mter the start of the new year the Irish hope to continue their winning ways in dual meets as they take on Purdue, Adams State, Ohio, and Ohio State. The only home match is against Adams State from Colorado on Jan. 9. They will be looking to revenge a loss to Adams State last year and up­hold their undefeated streak in dual matches. 
Wrestling for the Irish will be the usual · starters of Andy Radenbaugh at 118 pounds, Marcus Gowens at 126, Durso, Boyd, Todd LaYton at 150, Mark Gerardi at 158, Todd Tomazic at 167, Geneser, Curt Engler at 190, and heavyweight Chuck "Dream" Weaver. Layton, Gerardi, and Raden­baugh all competed in the NCAA tournament last year. 
Christmas in Florida should be beneficial for the Irish as they begin their drive to the NCAAs. The dual meets along with the tournaments should give Notre Dame added expe­rience which in turn could lead to a high finish in the NCAAs. 
Gifts 
continued from page 24 
To hockey coach Ric Schafer: A win. Any win. Soon. 
The 3-13-2 Irish hockey team has not won a game in its last 11 contests, spanning more than a month of the season. Notre Dame is not giving itself any presents by scheduling na­tional powers, but needs to stop giving gifts of the two-game­sweep variety to teams like Lake Forest. 
To women's basketball coach 
Muffet McGraw: A tuffet, 
some curds and whey-­
whatever those are. 
Actually, McGraw and the 
Irish are asking for their first 
NCAA tournament appearance 
for Christmas. 
To the thousands of students 
who did not buy basketball tick­
ets: A box of Kleenex--the kind 
with the lotion in it. 
Many of you may need it 
during the days of January and 
February, when the Irish are 
running and dunking against some of the best teams in the nation. Of course, there are so many other, more exciting so­cial alternatives at Notre Dame during that time of the year. 
To Miami and USC: Whatever Kleenex is left over, and make Miami's the kind without the lotion in it. 
To Digger Phelps: Silence. He doesn't want anyone to wake up his basketball team. 
The seniorless Irish entered the season with a question mark and enter Christmas break with an unblemished mark, as in 3-0. Ellis and the highly-regarded freshmen are running the ball, point guard Tim Singleton is running the show and the men in the paint are running up the rebounding margin--a trademark of Phelps-coached teams. 
Back-up present to Phelps: a future schedule that includes games in Texas, where his son­in-law, Jamie Moyer, soon will be pitching for the Rangers be­cause the Cubs traded him ear­lier this week. 

To the Chicago Cubs: A clue. They very seldom have one when it comes to trades. 
To the Notre Dame ticket of­fice: Better luck next year. This year was not exactly a smooth one: freshmen were scattered all over Notre Dame Stadium because of a shortage, and student basketball sales were low, in part because ap­plications were not mailed in­dividually this year. 
The Fiesta Bowl deal was great in that every Notre Dame student who wanted a ticket could purchase one. But the "proof beyond a shadow of a doubt" clause regarding iden­tification in Tempe should have been announced before many students tried to purchase them for their friends. 
To Lou Holtz: The same pres­ent that we're all asking from Santa. 
And to all of you who have made it this far in this column: Merry Christmas. May your New Year be blessed with the national championship we've all been awaiting. 
lllini 
continued from page 24 
who leads the team with 418 kills and 147 total blocks. 
And Illinois dominated net play in the first round of the tournament against Illinois State, as four players hit better than .500 for the match, with sophomore middle blocker Laura Bush recording an amazing .833 hitting percentage on 10 kills. 
Illinois activates its powerful attack with the skillful hands of sophomore setter Barb Win­sett, who has already regis­tered 1434 assists and picked up 221 digs. 
But Irish head coach Art Lambert tries to keep things in perspective. 
"I try not to worry about what Illinois is going to do," said Lambert. ''I just want the girls to go out and do what they've been doing all year. We stuck with our game plan all year and I think we've been successful." 
The Irish game plan will cen­ter around the powerful armswing of senior middle blocker Mary Kay Waller who has been a force for the team all year, recording 426 kills and 199 kills as well as 43 service aces. 
Senior Zanette Bennett adds another dimension to the Irish offense as her mixture of thun­derous spikes and soft shots-­totalling 377 kills for the season--and 147 total blocks have made her intimidating at the net. 
And senior Maureen Shea has been the personification of consistency for Notre Dame this season, contributing 285 kills for a .282 hitting percentage while also adding 84 total blocks and 210 digs. 
Freshman setter Julie Brem­ner has been all over the floor for the Irish, leading the team in assists (1284) and digs (312), while recording 117 total blocks and 25 service aces. 
But perhaps the most intan­gible factor for the team is the impact of players such as junior Kathy Cunningham and sophomore Tracey Shelton who have been able to come off the bench in pressure situations and provide a catalyst for the Irish. 
Notre Dame has not faced Il­linois since 1984, when it fell in three games, 15-4, 15-4 and 15-3 to the Illini in the Illinois Tourn­ament, but that was Lambert's inaugural season and this year the Irish have fared better against Big Ten teams, record­ing a 5-3 record after beating Iowa, Ohio State, Michigan and Northwestern twice. 
"I feel like we have as good a chance as they do of win­ning," said Lambert. "We have absolutely everything to win and nothing to lose, so if we go out and continue playing as we 

FIESTA BOWL 
COMPLETE TRAVEL PACKAGE 
See the Fighting Irish BEAT the Mountaineers!
s498 
Your complete travel package includes all of these features: perperson quod 
0 Roundtrip airfare from Chicago via Continental Airlines, departing
( 4 people per room) triple. double or single December 31 and returning January 3, other dates available available on request 
0 Deluxe accommodations at the Ramada Hotel in Tempe, within walking distance of the stadium. 2 double beds, up to 4 to a room.
Premier PasSports 
0 Alamo rental car with unlimited free mileage. Gas, tax, insurance
Oneofthe USA's torelllOS Sporis Trove/ companies The Official Trave!Agencyott.'Je extra. Minimum age requirements apply. Airport transfers available. World Champion LosAngelesLakers 
0 Special Notre Dame gift such as T-shirt, cap or travel bag at our option
J-800•777-3643 For 3 shoring. $548 each: 2 shoring. $598 each. single. $798. Space is /linited at these pnces and does NOT Include F1esta Bowl Game 6cket. which may be available at an extra charge Similar hale/ may be substituted Standard travel package terms apply. 
page 20 The Observer Friday, December 9, 1988 
•

Kalbas, Wenger, to compete 1n Milwaukee Classic 
/ 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 

The key to winning is to stay one step ahead of your op­ponent. On Jan. 4-8, two members of the Notre Dame's men's tennis team will try to get a jump on their spring com­petition in the Milwaukee Ten­nis Classic. Brian Kalbas, No. 2 player, and Ryan Wenger, No. 5 player, are looking to prepare for the most compete­tive schedule in Irish tennis his­tory. 
"The tournament is a great tune-up," said second-year Head Coach Bob Bayliss. "It is a great to get good competition while we are not in school. It is important that Notre Dame be represented in this competition and our two guys have an op-
Class 

continued from page 15 
Bill-This year has been graatl Catch those Hawanan rays(not lhe wo­men).Merry Chnstms!Love,Jen 
Dear Ocean. I jUSt know how much the dolphin mi888s your wanm blue current!! 
You keep me up late, You distract me from my studies, And I'm still gomg to miss youll Have a GREAT semester! 
Love, Annie 

ST. JUDE'S NOVENA May the S.Cr.cl HMrt of Jeaua be edor.cl. glorified, loved and P'"""'ed throughout the world now and forever. Sacr.cl Heart of Jnua, have mercy on ua. St. Jude, help of the hopalna, prey lor ua. Say thla prayer 9 tlmea a day. By the 8th day your prayer will be .,.... awered. Sav It lor 9 daya. It haa never bMn known to tall. Publication muat be promlaed. Thank you St. Jude. 
GFB 
DEAREST JACQUI Happy Birthy to the most special gin In the world ill What began a year ago has become my wildest dream come true. How much do I love you???? TONS, AND TONS AND MEGATONSIIIIII Thanks lor all your pat1ence.canng and support. My love always, 
John 
P.S. Ho, Ho, Ho IIIII 

Linda B. (GRE Goddess) Knock em dead! -MCAT God 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MUFFIN MUFFIN FROM THE STUD MUFFINS OF STAN­FORD 
GOOSE: Ahhough at 11mes I thought I'd d1ed this semester, I would have died truly il I'd been with the diabetic and the politician. Thank you lor everything. xxooxx Honk 
TAKE A BREAK FREDDY JONES BAND at McCor· mlck'a, downtown, 125 S. Michigan, tonight. 
Annie, 

BEST OF LUCKI 89 Won't be the same without you. We'll miss you Tonsl Love, DI,Ta,Mar,AM,Cin&Kel 
Attention all FAC Mernbera Our next FAC will be lifter brNk Thanka more making our Happy Houra a bl118t MERRY CHRISTMASII K, K, D, & V 
To the blond guy, gtaa-. dk blue ahlrt, Mtlng lunch Wed. downatalra middle right NDH-l waan't alone either but you caught my eya. Want to meet? Raapond hera after break-M 
Merry Christmas 4'45ersl Good Luck on 
IInels and enjoy break I 

You guys are the bast-I'll miss you I 
Lova, Dunky 
Jerry, 

Thanks lor some fun late nights 
(early mornings?). Good luck on all your 
finals. Merry Chnstmasl 
Love, Dunky 

SENIORS, SENIORS HAND IN PROFILES FOR INVITA· TIONAL INTERVIEWS IN SPRING SE· MESTER BY FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE. 
SENIORS, SENIORS HAND IN PROFlLES FOR INVITA­TIONAL INTERVIEWS IN SPRING SE­MESTER BY FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE. 
I need a nde to Cleveland after 4 on 12116. Will pay. Beth at x4802 
porunnity to snare a big win Mecca in front of 20,000 people, early." and the tournament arranges for the players to stay at the 
A big win might be hard to homes of Milwaukee resi­come by looking at the stiff dents." competition. According to Bayliss, players from such According to the senior cap­traditional powers as Pepper­tain, the tournament, which is dine, UCLA, USC, Texas, and hosted by Marquette, will pro­Michigan, the third ranked vide the setting for himself and team in the country last year. Wenger to be in top physical Top standouts include Buff condition for the start of the Farrow of UCLA and the spring season against number-one player in col­Northwestern. legiate tennis, Malivia 
Washington of Michigan. "It is probably one of the best NCAA tournaments in the 
The open draw touurnament country," said Kalbas. "The is well known for the quality of tournament will put us in the players and its hospitality. top physical shape that we 
"It is a first class tourna­want to be in." ment," said Kalbas, who will be competing for the second Kalbas used last year'sconsecutiive year. "The semi­tournament as a springboard to finals and finals are held at the a 17-11 singles record last 
GEORGE (Jelly)FISH Happy belated birthday. Merry Christmas. May your stocking be filled with 
MARKERSIIII You'll always be # 1 to usl Love, # 5 & # 16 
SKIP After a 4 month relationship You tell with­out saying goodbyeI You're a wimpI From G,S & the rest ol your MW 10:10 
Kim, We love you even il you 
SPIT Glee,Pookie,Legs,Whiskers,Mo,Bog, Ling,Cat&Sus 
MATT FAGAN may like the GoGo's but we love you anyway Elaine & Kathy Happy Birthday Geek 
Desperately need ride to Philly anytime alter 12115 1 pm. call Mary 1266. 
"I"I"I"CATHY FLYNN"I"!"I" This Year: Happy Birthday at Notre Dame!ll Next Year: Alles Guts zum Geburtstag in Osterreich! Von Deinen Deutschen Freunden, JULIE und ERIC 
STAMS---KEEP SMILINGIIIIIIIII AND ENJOY THE HOLIDAYSIII KEEP SMILINGIIIIIIIII 
MONDAY DECEMBER 12TH 
IS KELLY SMITH'S 19TH BIRTHDAY! Give her a call at 284-4064 and wish her a happy one. Love, Kathy&Steve 
Bran, Ker, Re, Lumpa, Kel, Heid, Shan, Marge, Feerball, Wen, & everyone in H.C.: MERRY CHRISTMAS! Love, Ace 
MA's Top 5 "Firsts" First: 

5. to wake up-NOT 4. to be "avec" a "virgin"-NOT 3. to "occupato" a loft 2. to acquire various "love marls" 
(Bill..rugbum) 

1. TO TURN 191 HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
YANKEE DOODLE! Love, tiff, Deb Tiff, Deb & Sammy II you's like to be the next first in her life call 4238. 
MOIIIRA ("but why") REIDY CHUBBIll It's about time you're 21. THAT'S WHEN­it was such a long wait Now that you're legal you'll have to WANG OUT ALL OVER THE PLACE. HAPPY BIRTHDAYIII Love, Horn, Joanna, Sarah, and a bunch ol other people 
308 GHIT Thanks lor brightening my week, whoever you are! 
SP 
Happy Birthday Deb Hope you have a great birthday--you deserve ill I! -Stacy, Allison, and Shan 
Happy Birthday Stacy Ebright! You're the greatest. We luv ya lots Deb & Allison 
Merry Christmas Bets! You're the bast room1el love, Janice 
THE FART FROM HELLIII 

season. Kalbas upset Craig Wildley of Kansas, 6-2, 6-2. Wildley is ranked in top 50 in the country. 
The 128 single player field will determine if Ryan Wenger's turnaround is for real. Wenger fell on hard times early in the season but recently has raised his level of play 
"Ryan has come out of his' slump," said Bayliss. "He won two matches in the Tom Fallon Invitational, and beat a good Ohio St. player, Kevin Dibelius in the Rolex Regional Tourna­ment." 
Wenger and Kalbas, No. 3 duo, will take the court for the Irish in the 64 team double's · field. The pair has had some tough times in the fall season, 
yet this competition could turn things around for them. 
As for the other Irish players, they will play in local tourna­ments at home and try to heal their wounds. DiLucia, No. 1 player, has been suffering from shin splints for the past several weeks, but is expected to be ready for the spring season. 
Looking back at the fall season, Bayliss believes that his team is not quite where they should be. Asked what grade he would he would give his teams for the fall season, Bayliss had this to say. 
"I would give our team a low B," said Bayliss. "We weren't perfect but we are better than our record shows. With the in­jury factor, we performed ac­ceptable but not extraordi­nary." 
3,900 students buy Fiesta Bowl tickets 

"We will honor anyone who wishes to get a refund of their $35 for the ticket before they leave for break," continued Cunningham, "in the case that this policy will present prob­lems in Arizona. We would rather take care of any prob­lems here than have people stuck with a problem in Arizona." 
Tickets may be picked up at a booth at the Princess Hotel <ND Alumni Headquarters for the game) in Scottsdale (7575 
E. Princess Dr.) on Friday, Dec. 30, Saturday, Dec. 31 and Sunday, Jan. 1 from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Tickets also may be picked up at Sun Devil Stadium on game day (Jan. 2) at the will­call window on the stadium's south end from 1:30 p.m. to kickoff. 
Jo~­

Friday, December 9, 1988 The Observer 
DOMINO'S PIZZA CHALLENGES YOU TO. 
BEAT THE CLOCK! 

THE TIME ON THE 
® 

CLOCK IS THE PRICE YOU PAY! 
If you love Hot, Fresh Domino's Pizza®, then you'll love this! 
Call Monday through Thursday from 6 / pm-8 pm and order your favorite 1011 doubles with one item. Whatever time is on the clock is the price you pay -tax included! EXAMPLE: If you call at 6:35pm your price is $6.35 for two 10" one item pizzas! You save money no matter when you call! No coupon necessary. Additional items available at regular price. 
HURRY! Challenge ends December 31, 1988. 
NOTRE DAME 
Hours: .. UNIVERSITY! Sunday-Thursday 
4 pm-1 am
Call Us! 
Friday and Saturday
277-2151 
4 pm-2 am
1835 South Bend Ave. Now Hiring! 
Not valid with any other offer. 
Join the world's largest pizza
Valid at participating stores delivery company. Stop in
only. Limited delivery area. Our today at your local Domino's 
drivers carry less than $20.00. Pizza Store. Drivers earn up 
! 

©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc. to $8.00 per hour/ 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------·~­
page22 The Observer 
Southall adjusts to switches 
Senior free safety 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
When Corny Southall arrived at Notre Dame, he was not sure whether he would play tailback or defensive back when he got his chance with the Irish. 
But he already had set the major goal for his collegiate football career. 
''Any freshman with any idea of what they're getting into, they dream about it," said the senior from Rochester, N.Y., about his dream of a national title. "It's just one of those things, just the thought that, 'I'm going to Notre Dame on a full-ride scholarship. We recruit the best athletes in the country year in and year out. There's so much talent on the team that if we put it to­gether... ' 
"You do still have that belief because each year it's another chance to start over," contin­ued Southall. "You can say this is what we did last year, and this is where we can improve. Our freshman class, and I'm sure Tim Brown's freshman class, Steve Beuerlein's fresh­man class and Anthony Johnson's freshman class, yoQ just think that the talent's here and the coaching's here... " 
Southall finds himself one game away from finally ac­hieving that goal with the rest of the senior class. But before reaching this· position, the 6-2, 194-pound free safety has had to endure several personal ad­justments. 
First, after working as the third-team tailback his fresh­man year, Southall learned of his switch to the defensive backfield just before the Irish opened the year against Mic­higan his sophomore year. 
"All through spring, I was at running back, and even two weeks into fall camp I'd been at running back," said Sout­hall, who starred in both the offensive and defensive back­fields at Rush-Henrietta 
one game away from reaching goal 
Sperry High School. "The idea of going to defense wasn't even there. A few players in the sec­ondary went down a week or two before Michigan, and we needed someone capable of learning the system quickly. 
"It was more of a shock that I was switched at that time; normally you'd rather be switched in the spring because you'd know in your mind going into fall camp what you'd be doing," Southall continued. "I had a long talk with my par­ents, and they encouraged me. As it turned out, I learned the system a few weeks later, played and lettered that year." 
Things started out even bet­ter for Southall in his junior year. As a starter at free safety, he intercepted two passes in the season-opening win over Michigan and ran back an interception for a touchdown against Purdue. 
But Southall suffered a par­tially torn knee ligament in the very next game, at Pittsburgh, and he was sidelined for the next four games. 
"It was the first injury in 10 years of playing where I'd missed that many games," said Southall. 
Southall was back at full 
health as this season entered. 
The unexpected event to occur 
this season was a switch in the 
depth chart. Sophomore Pat 
Terrell, a speedster and former 
split end from St. Petersburg, 
Fla., replaced Southall as the 
starting free safety before the 
Pitt game. 

"For some guys, it would be 
difficult," said Southall. "I'm 
a senior sharing time with an 
underclassman, and some 
people probably would have a 
problem with that. I've been 
brought up to understand some 
things are more important than 
personal satisfaction. 

"I've started half the games 
and Pat's started half, but 
we've both played an equal Southall. "When I started, I'd tell him a few certain things that the other team was doing that we hadn't gone over in practice or that they had changed. When he started, the roles were reversed." 
Notre Dame's No. 1 ranking shows that all the changes en­dured by Southall have proven beneficial. He even got a taste of what might have been during the Southern Cal game, as he ran with the ball during Notre Dame's final play from scrim­mage in the 27-10 victory. 
"On defense, you get to hit the guy as hard as you want, and it's legal--you can get your frustrations out," said Sout-· hall. "As a running back, you take a beating. At practice, I don't take a pounding because I'm delivering the blow. At run­ning back, you're being hit about every third play, and it takes its toll. 
"During the Southern Cal game, I felt fine, but when I ran the last play at running back, I forgot how much the running back takes," contin­ued Southall. "It was a sweep, and I cut against the grain and was hit by about four people. I totally forgot what it's like to be tackled instead of delivering the blow." 
Friday, December 9, 1988 
Irish thank students 
To the Notre Dame student body: 
Usually when you're playing in a big basketball game, you're totally concentrating on the game itself. It's not very often that a distraction snaps you out of that and you notice something besides the game itself. Tuesday night after Indiana had cut our lead down to just two points midway through the second half, we came out of the huddle after a time-out and we couldn't help but hear how loud the students were. 
We came out on the court, heard our fans and said to each other that there was no way we were going to let this one slip away. Someone told us after the game that there were a lot of Indiana fans in the Joyce Center. However, our loyal fans must have been doing a pretty good job because we never heard the Hoosier fans. 
We're pretty proud of starting 3-0 and we're even prouder to have fans like ours backing us. We're going to do every­thing possible to make sure the football team isn't Notre Dame's only undefeated team on Jan. 3. 
Our theme this year is "Hang Loose." From the Notre Dame basketball team, Merry Christmas and "Hang Loose" during the holidays. Be sure to come over Saturday afternoon and let out all of those pre-exam frustrations when we play Creighton at 1 p.m. 
Again, thanks for your support this year. There can't be a better home court anywhere than at Notre Dame. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~ 

~SOCIETY~ 
amount of time," continued .,.__ The Notre Dame Basketball Team 

1FIESTA-' BOWL 
Complete Travel Package 
498 Includes roundtrip air. S hotel. rental cor and 1,•. ·;.. more. See details in ;, . . Iorge ad elsewhere in 
this issue. Guml·ldt·rnorlll<lvnffl 

Premier PasSports 
T.'1e Of!.icJal Travel Agency of the :Vorlt1 ·.~t,ampJor, Los Angeles Lakers 
1-800-777-3643 
EDUCATION FOR THE 
REAL WORLD 

Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with apolicy emphasis. 
Special fields: International relations, Interamerican rela­tions, international business, comparative development, economics, strategic studies. 
Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, and the Mid­dle East. 
Fellowships and other finan­cial aid available. Apply by january 15. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL S11JDIES UNNERSITY OF MIAMI 
P.O. BOX 248123C CORAL GABLES, FL 33124 (305) 284-4173 

Friday, December 9, 1988 
CAMPUS 
7:3G-8 a.m. Open Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 8:15p.m. ND Glee Club Christmas Concert, Carl Starn, Con­ductor. Stepan Center. 8 a.m.-3 p.m. Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 1 p.m. Men's Basketball vs. Creighton University, JACC. 2 p.m. Saint Mary's Basketball vs. St. Francis, Fort Wayne, Angela Athletic Facility. 2 p.m. Mass with members of Emmaus, a community with the mentally handicapped. Moreau Seminary. 2 p.m. Friends of the Snite Museum of Art free guided tour of the snite. Tour begins at the main (south) museum en­trance. 8 p.m. Saint Mary's department of music annual Christmas Service of Lessons and Carols, Nancy Menk, director. Church of Loretto. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
11:30 a.m. Department of economics Public Policy Workshop with Chris Whitmey, graduate student in economics reporting on his housing research. Room 131, Decio. 
3:30p.m. Philosophy colloquium with Professor Tad Schmatlz. Library Lounge. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
Meatball Sub Chicken Enchiladas Batter Fried Perch Vegetarian Moussaka Beef StewiBiscuit Philly Steak Sandwich Cheese Enchiladas Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Jerks 
(!H. WELL IN A ·, rRIC TL-Y CUMMERC.IAL \[N'>E WE'D LIKE lu Wl\t1 TOU A­
TOP. N(Jw YUU ARE 
CE LIITLI NG f\ 
C.ii R1.'-> TJA N HuLIDA Y. 
The Observer page 23 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 


DOWN 
1 Malaise of a sort 
2 Playboy? 3 Swell place? 4 It's really 
something 5 Usher? 6 Make some 
bread 7 January 
marcher 8 Tucked away 9 Conundrum 
10 Hum? 11 What "video" means 12 "Sunny" 
composer 13 Cupid 21 Leo's lodge 

23 .A Chaplin 25 On time 27 Voiceless birds 29.Leave-that 
The Far Side 
30 Hayworth or 51 Earl, duke, etc. Gam 
54 Actress Gia 31 Clothes line? 
55 Young ones 32 Lend a hand 

want changes 33 Met air 
56 Hide away 34 Narrated 
57 Side post 36 Author Levin 58 Bouquet

39 Hourglass? 59 Vocalist Jerry 
41 Wind? 44 Corn Belt state 60 For men only 
46 Way out 61 Restore 49Sheepdog 64Siy-fox 
Gary Larson 

HMERRY. ~' 

• 

\. 

Cal~ln and Hobbes 
W\tl MADE nus 
MESS OUT HER£ ?.1 / 


Bloom County 

IT WAS fl.. ~ORRIBL't. Ull1.£ 'Jt.NIJS\t>..N ~\.\0 Mfl..TER\to..l\'Z.ED 
lt-.11\\E K\IC\\8-\! "£ TOOK 
CIJ\ SJI'IIE 0\fl.,BOUC"'L 'r\1~­FRt.QIJENC'f OE'IIC£, F\:)\Nit.O 11 AT 'Jt>.RIO\JS ®£CIS, ~D... 



Bill Watterson 
a 


Calvin and Hobbes 
CALVIN, I'M AT 'NORK! I DOt-.t'T ~'IE TIME TO TELL 'fOJ A SIOR'{ NOW! ['M VERi SUS'( ! G£1 Off TilE ~Ot-!E. 1'M £XPE.ctlf'.l6­
\M~R.ThNT CAU.S. 
Bill Watterson 

Sports 
Friday, December 9, 1988 
,aaee ea 

ND has three All-Americans 
Heck, Stams, Stonebreaker all are named to first team 
Associated Press 

When Notre Dame takes a perfect 11-0 record into the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 2, it will also take three Associated Press All-Americans. 
In the results of the voting announced Thursday, top­ranked Notre Dame placed three players on the All­America team--offensive tackle Andy Heck, defensive end Frank Starns and linebacker Mike Stonebreaker. 
Heck's honor is quite an ac­complishment for the senior co­capitan, who played tight end for the Irish until this season. Starns, also a senior, has ac­cumulated 51 total tackles, 32 unassisted, and has seven quarterback sacks. Stonebreaker, a junior, has 71 unassisted tacles and a total of 104 for the season. 
Notre Dame players receiv­ing honorable mention in­cluded tailback Mark Green, quarterback Tony Rice and guard Tim Ryan on offense and cornerback Todd Lyght, linebacker Wes Pritchett, cor­nerback Stan Smagala, free safety Pat Terrell and nose guard Chris Zorich on defense. 
Deion Sanders, Florida State's magnificent corner­back, was also named to the AP All-American college foot­ball team Thursday for the second year in a row, along with Reisman Trophy winner Barry Sanders of Oklahoma State. They are related only by talent. 
Despite missing two games in October, Deion Sanders in­tercepted five passes and returned two for touchdowns. He also led the nation in punt returns with a 15.24-yard average--33 returns for 503 yards and a touchdown. 
Barry Sanders' numbers were even more amazing. The 5-foot-8, 197-pound junior tail­back capped his record­smashing season with his top effort--332 yards against Texas Tech. It was his fourth 300-yard game of the season--no one else has ever had more than one in a cereer--and gave him 2,628 for the season, easily erasing the mark of 2,342 by Southern 
... 
'Tis the season for Christmas gifts 
So far, the Christmas season has been nothing but jolly for the Notre Dame athletic department. 
Santa gave the Irish soccer and volleyball teams their first-ever invitations to the NCAA tournament for being good this fall, and replaced the carnation he left in Digger Phelps' stocking 18 years ago with a 6-foot, 9­inch future superstar and a style of basketball that fans love to watch. 
And the gift that Santa gave Notre Dame football fans three years ago is now only one victory away from giving this school a present it has not been able to unwrap for 11 years. 
Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor

• 


So in the spirit of the holidays (not to mention the fact that giving Christmas gifts in a newspaper column does not cost anything), here are a few more presents for those athletes and coaches who seem to have every­thing: 
To volleyball coach Art Lambert: A flawless perfor­mance tonight at Illinois and three more outings before Christmas. 
Lambert's squad will almost certainly need the former against the fourth-ranked Illini in tonight's Sweet Sixteen game to earn the latter--and a shot at the national title. 
see Gifts, page 19 
~·.-, 

It 

Cal's Marcus Allen in 1981. Sanders' numerous records also included a single-season mark of 39 touchdowns. 
The All-America team also includes defensive tackle Tracy Rocker of Auburn-­winner of both the Outland Trophy as the nation's best in­terior lineman and the Lom­bardi Award as the country's top lineman--and Derrick Thomas of Alabama, who won the Butkus Award as the top linebacker. 
Sanders is joined in the back­field by two other underclassmen--junior quar­terback Steve Walsh of Miami and Texas A&M sophomore running back Darren Lewis, both of whom shattered records this season. 
The wide receivers are two more record-breakers--Jason Phillips of Houston and Hart Lee Dykes, Sanders' Oklahoma State teammate. 
Oklahoma State, Nebraska and Arkansas were the only other schools, aside from Notre Dame, to be represented by more than one player. 
ND faces Illinois in Sweet 16 
The Observer I Zoltan Ury 
Michael Stonebreaker (42) and Frank Stams, who have spent the entire season making things difficult for quarterbacks like USC's Rodney Peete (16), were named to the first team of the Associated Press All-America team Thursday. Offensive tackle Andy Heck was another fir!tt-team selection. 
By MOLLY MAHONEY But first things first. Before Sports Writer the Elite Eight, the Irish must get past 28-3 Illinois, which is Sweet Sixteen. undefeated at home in Kenney It has a nice ring to it. But Gym and is currently riding a 
for the Notre Dame women's 20-match winning streak. volleyball team, Elite Eight And the Illini, whose only would sound a lot better. losses have come to top-ranked 
So with that in mind, the Irish and undefeated UCLA, third­will travel to Champaign, Ill., ranked Hawaii and lOth-ranked tonight to take on fourth­Brigham Young, are no fluke. ranked Illinois with the hopes "I would hate for our team of advancing to the Elite Eight to look towards Nebraska," to take on the winner of the said Illinois assistant coach Jay Nebraska-Oklahoma match Potter. "There is always that Saturday night. danger. I wouldn't put it past our players to look ahead to the championship match. But there are only good teams from here on out." 
Illinois' lineup is loaded with talent, especially senior middle blocker Mary Eggers, who has been deadly at the net this year, recording 339 kills for a nationally-ranked .426 '111itting percentage and 88 total blocks. 
She has been getting a lot of help from fellow middle block­er, junior Nancy Brookhart, 
see ILLINI, page 19 

Creighton is next for 3-0 Irish 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Notre Dame starts this string Assistant Sports Editor 
Saturday when it hosts 
Creighton at 1 p.m. in the Joyce 
The Notre Dame basketball ACC. The Bluejays hold a 2-3 team has surprised many ob­record following a 71-63 loss to servers with a 3-0 start that has Arkansas State on Wednesday included wins over big-name night. The Irish defeated programs Kentucky and In­Creighton 66-54 last season. diana. "They really gave us a tough 
But over the next six games, time last year because (coach) with the exception of a show­Tony Barone always does a fine down at UCLA on Jan. 14, the job of preparing his team," Irish will be trying to maintain said Irish coach Digger Phelps. their undefeated record "We're a little tired right now, against a string of less notable and that won't help matters. I foes. gave the kids a day off after 
. 7 :·~.. ·; . ~.; ' w:-": ~;. 
There are only 16 shopping days left until Christmas 
What do you do? Your parents want something from Notre 
Dame. You bought them all sweatshirts from the bookstore last 
year, and the Tiffany lamps will clash with living room colors. The 
answer is easy: buy them a subscription to the Observer. They'll 
get all the campus news and sports coverage that students get 
. .. 

..... .,.. 
every day . 
the Indiana game. We'd gone 17 straight days without a break, and you could tell it was affecting them, especially in practice.'' 
After the Creighton game, the Irish do not return to the JACC until a matchup until Jan. 17, when they face a Southern Methodist team coached by former Notre Dame player and assistant John Shumate. 
Until then, Notre Dame enters a five-game road trip 
see IRISH, page 17 
Please enclose $25 for the remainder of the semester and the name and mailing address to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 


·...-· ·~ -., ~ --.... . ..,..,.
.. ,., ~~ 
., t. ~ ., J.. •' '"j. '}..: ~ ~ 






