Lookin' brighter
IACCENT: Real life in 'Roseanne' Cloudy, breezy and warmer today, high in the mid 50s. A 
50 percent chance of light 
rain tonight, low in the low
IVIEWPOINT: The grad student mindset 
40s. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 41 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Soviets to free all political prisoners, says Kohl 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW--The Soviet Union will release all people regarded in the West as political prisoners by the end of the year, Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany said Wednes­day after talks with President Mikhail Gorbachev. 
Such a dramatic move would be one of the boldest signs yet from Gorbachev that he seeks a clear break with past Krem­lin human rights practices that have included imprisonment of dissenters from Communist Party policy. 
However, Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov refused to confirm or deny that a release of poli­tical prisoners is imminent. 
He told reporters there are about two dozen such prisoners. Estimates from human rights groups abroad vary from 150 to more than 500. 
Gerasimov said the fate of the prisoners was not on the agenda of the Soviet-West Ger­man negotiations that brought Kohl to Moscow. 
Kohl's announcement was welcomed by Soviet human rights activist Andrei Sak­harov, the Reagan administra­tion and Amnesty Interna­tional. 
"Certainly we await the release of all of them (prisoners) and their rehabilitation,'' said Sakharov, the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize laureate. 
Arts and Letters enrollment continues increasing trend 
By MICHAEL WELLS Staff Reporter 
The recently released Registrar's enrollment report shows a continued increase in the number of students in the College of Arts and Letters, and in the department of govern­ment in particular, leaving un­derstaffed administrators won­dering if the trend will continue. 
The report indicates that Arts and Letters is the most popular college among Notre Dame students, with an enroll­ment of 2,585, and shows the College of Business as coming in second with 1,493 students. The Colleges of Engineering and Science come in as third and fourth, respectively. 
The high number of students declaring Arts and Letters majors marks an upswing which has taken place over the last ten years, according to Robert Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "What has happened is that the size of this college has increased by almost a thousand," Waddick said. "We're a thousand students over what we were, without an increase iri faculty." 
see CROWDED, page 6 


Hall trespasser pleads guilty 
By REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporter 
A South Bend man pleaded guilty Tuesday to a charge of Criminal Trespass committed last Jan. 21 in Cavanaugh Hall, said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. 
James Walker, 19, pleaded guilty before the St. Joseph County Misdemeanors Court and was given a $125 fine. A 30-day jail sentence was suspended, Johnson said. 
A juvenile who was arrested with Walker in the Jan. 21 inci­dent was also charged, he said. The juvenile, whose name was not released, pleaded guilty to three counts: Trespass, a Class A Misdemeanor; Theft, a Class D Felony; Minor Consumption of Alcohol, a Misdemeanor, Johnson said. 
The juvenile had served two days in jail and was sentenced 
see GUILTY, page 6 

In the past three days, Kohl held 10 hours of talks with Gor­bachev and also met with other top Kremlin officials. 
At a news conference called to sum up his visit, Kohl said: "The Soviets confirmed that they will release before the end of the year all political prisoners as we understand it in the West." 
Kohl would not say whether the promise came from Gor­bachev, only that it was made during the talks. 


By DAVE JACOBSON 
News Staff 
The presidential debates be­tween George Bush and Mi­chael Dukakis may no longer be on television, but they are still going on at Notre Dame. 
Wednesday night a mock debate was held in Grace Hall's pit between representatives of campus student campaigns for 
i Bush and Dukakis. The forum 
/1 was composed of two represen­tatives for each candidate and approximately 20 mock reporters. 
The debate was organized by junior Nancy Snyder, who said she thought it would provide a perfect opportunity for the stu­dents to ask questions that were not brought up in the real debate. She set up the event 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez with Professor Dan Lapsley, 
The contenders from the Mock Press Conference yesterday at Grace Pit from I to r: hall fellow for Flanner and 
Republicans Matt Schlapp and Tom Ehrhardt, Democrats Mark Bettencourt and Ted Oberstar. Pasquerilla East Halls. 
Asked how many people may be freed, Kohl's foreign mini­ster, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, said: "We are not in a position to give final figures." 
Neither Kohl nor Genscher identified prisoners who might be released. It was not clear how many Soviets classified in the West as political prisoners might be freed, since some have been sentenced on cri­minal charges, including espionage. 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez
Can you taste it yet? 
Mary Carol Daly waits for her milkshake to be made yesterday in the basement of Lafortune Student Center. 
Mock debate captures campaign spirit 
Lapsley acted as debate moderator. 
The reporters, various stu­dents from North Quad dorms, asked a multitude of questions on topics such as education, abortion, Stategic Defense Ini­tiative and extended health in­surance. 
The Bush team of Zahm soph­omore Tom Ehrhardt and Flanner junior Matt Schlapp handled questions and presented the vice president's views. 
The Dukakis team also an­swered questions, but did not have as much information available as the Bush camp. Flanner sophomore Mark Bet­tencourt and Ted Oberstar, a junior from Grace, represented the Democratic ticket. 
What the Grace debate lacked in insight to each can-
see DEBATE, page 6 page 2 The Observer Thursday, October 27, 1988 


IN BRIEF 
Shirley Temple Black says she and the president of the United States made beautiful music together, even if the movie was awful. The former child star said was that when she was a teen-ager, she thought Ronald Reagan was a good kisser. The two performed in a nearly forgotten 1947 film, "That Hagen Girl." Reagan was the leading man. -Associated Press 
The Soviet Union will launch its space shuttle Buran on an unmanned mission this week, following months of delays similar to those that plagued the maiden voyage of its U.S. counterpart. A government commission set the launch for 6:23a.m. Moscow time Saturday (11:23 p.m. EDT Friday) after receiving reports from specialists fol­lowing several thousand tests of the Buran and its booster rocket, the Energia, the official news agency Tass re­ported. --Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
Dirty Book Sale today until 3:30p.m. at the Library Concourse. Clean up now on low priced, abused, but readable books. -The Observer 
Palestinian Dilemma: Prospects for Peace is a community forum sponsored by the Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies at 7:30p.m. today in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. -The Observer 
Student Art Forum will meet today at 6:30p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. -The Observer 
Black Cultural Arts Fashion Show tryouts will take place in mid November, but you must sign up before Nov. 
4. For modeling information call Delia Lozano at 271-8346, For other info call Carla Morris at 4968. -The Observer 
Grace Hall Debates continue today at 9 p.m. in the 
Pit of Grace Hall. Today's issue will be a seven day waiting 
period for the purchase of handguns. -The Observer 
Volunteers of the Homeless meet for a training session today at the Gilbert Center on South Michigan Street at 7 p.m. For a ride or directions-meet at the Main Circle at 6:30p.m. Call Kelly McGoldrick at 2812 for more information. -The Observer 
A Lutheran Volunteer Corps representative will be at the Center for Social Concerns today from 1:00 to 
4:30 p.m. Interested juniors and seniors should stop by today. -The Observer 
"Le Cercle Francais" will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in 255 Alumni Hall for a presentation by Father Leveille on "The Province of Quebec and Its People," along with a demonstration of the various French-Canadian accents. 
-The Observer 

Sotovento, a Latin American band, will perform in the Snite's Annenberg Auditorium this Sunday at 3 p.m. Tick­ets are available at for door for $4. A workshop will be held on Oct. 31, fron 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Sign up in the SUB Office, LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
Design Editor .. . . . ... Annette Rowland Design Assistant ............ Karen Newlove Typesetters...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer ...........................................Kurt Tinson News Editor............. Kendra Lee Morrill Copy Editor .. ................ Missy Weber Sports Copy Editor................ Pete Skik.o Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Ann Hebenstreit Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi 


n.e 
~er (USPS ~99 2~) is published Monday throu&h Friday except duriDJ cum and vacation periods. n.e ~er is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2.5 per semester) by writina Tille Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

n.e 
~-is a member of n.e Allodated Preu. All reproduction ri&hts are reserved. 


Accent Editor ....................... Tim Irvine Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Accent Designer.. .............. Mike Conway Typist .................................. Will Zamer ........................................Diane Bradley ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor ............... Maura Reidy Asstnt Vpt. Editor ............ Lisa O'Malley 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Notre Dame elections could rival national ones 
Democracy in action. It's wonderful. We get to see candidates aspiring for higher office wal­low in controversy for months. If we want a real mock election, we should have one for the office of the president of the University of Notre Dame. 
Move over Monk, Beauchamp wants a rematch. Only this time we should have a true democratic election. Not only the board of trus­tees, but also the faculty, staff and students should get a vote. It should be run just like the present presidential election with months of campaigning. The candidates could hold debates to have their words scrutinized by campus political experts, and could have cer­tain local campus newspapers misconstrue and misquote their ideas, just like the real thing. 
Our candidates could form political parties and affiliations. Of course, the two dominating organizations would probably be the Demo­cratic Administration for a Dry Campus and the Republican Party Against Student Rights. 
Unfortunately, all sort of cult factions may sprout up that could spoil the election, such as the Students For an Open Administration. This radical cult wishes for the administration to actually explain its actions, and open a dialogue with the students. These far left liberals just do not understand the American democratic process. Once our leader is elected, he no longer needs to explain his actions to his constituency. 
Monk, as the incumbent, would give weekly radio addresses on WVFI to the student body and deny allegations that Notre Dame is invest­ing in South African companies that are sup­porting apartheid. Say it ain't so, Monk. 
A popular issue on the campaign trail would undoubtedly be the student furlough program. Under this program, the vice-president of stu­dent affairs was allowed to give weekend passes to felons such as alcohol policy abusers, quiet hours offenders and campus parking violators. 
In an attempt to capture the endorsement of the Notre Dame Police and Security, candidate Father Tyson could oppose the release of these thugs in a public display of his tough guy stance 
on crime. 

The problem with this election is that it will 
be full of ugly mudslinging. The debates are 
bound to be dominated by quips like, "I knew 
Father Hesburgh, I worked with Father Hes­
burgh, Father Hesburgh was a friend of mine, 
and let me tell you, you're no Father Hes­
burgh." 

Issues such as the growing University endow­
ment are likely to be hot items. Should tuition 
be raised? Some candidates will say emphati­
cally, "I will not raise your tuition!" others 
• 


Mike Moran 
Photo Editor 


UNIVERSITY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS? CLINSIOeR THE l'oS:SIBIL.IiiE.S ••• 
candidates will not rule out the possibility, but claim the endowment problem may be solved by getting previously thought uncollectable stu­dent fees, or by raising student football ticket prices, again. 
Mudslinging issue number two should be campaign contibutions. Should student organi­zations be allowed to contribute to candidates that favor their positions, or only students act­ing as individuals? 
The incumbent party surely will sidestep hotspots like the football ticket scandal, while emphasizing their accomplishments that have caused Notre Dame to break into the top 20 universities in a recent poll. 
The most heated issue that the candidates will handle with extreme care is the proposed Food-Choice amendment. Currently, the "Food-Choice" campaign has been gaining sup­port for their on-campus student alternative meal plan. Leader of the "Pro-Leftovers" cam­paign, Mr. Hickey, claims that students are not entitled to those rights of choice until they move across the campus border. 
I am not sure who would win such a bloody election, but I do know that if a candidate wanted the endorsement of this publication he would have to support the freedom of the press to print alcohol advertisements. 
• 



: 9JillD~~ : 
: THURSDAY : 
: Campus D.J.s : : 10-1 : 

: SATURDAY : 
: q]][; illffi\!il] : : An awesome band -come check them out! : • 9:00-1 :00 • 
: Don't forget to check out the H~[))Efo\WAV~ : 

page 3

Thursday, October 27, 1988 The Observer 

IS
LOOKING


FOR THE 
SMC preps for elections 
By MARY BETH BLAJDA News Staff 
With election day near at hand, students will have the op­portunity to view congressional politics first hand tonight at the Joyce ACC, where the Hiler­Ward debate will be held. 
The debate was the main topic of discussion at St. Mary's Board of Governance meeting last night. 
"This debate is worthwhile because of the heightened awareness the media has brought to this 3rd District Con­gressional election," said Julie Parrish, St. Mary's student body president. 
Also scheduled for next week is an Election '88 information booth where students can ob­tain literature and other infor­mation on the candidates and their issues. 
The booth will be set up in the Madeleva Hall lobby Nov. l, through Nov. 3, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 


Construction cuts off Eddy 
Special to The Observer 
LAPORTE-The Indiana Department of Highways (IDOH) will be closing a sec­tion of S.R. 23 and U.S. 33 in St. Joseph County. 
Beginning today, that 
stretch of highway from its 
intersection with Colfax Av­
enue (U.S. 20) to Michigan 
Street will be closed to traf­
fic. 
The purpose of this closure 
is for pavement scarifying to 
be performed prior to resur­
facing. 
Work is expected to be completed and the road opened by either late Friday, Oct. 28, or late on Monday, Oct. 31, depending on weather conditions. 

Foundation director Alas spreads 'Liberation Theology' 

Associated Press 

An aerial view of a town in Bulacan province north of Manila still submerged in water Wednesday when typhoon Ruby ravaged the country's main island Tuesday. 
By ASHOK RODRIGUES ciety must reform, he said. Staff Reporter "In order to go back to the 
of God what we need is 
Father Jose Inocencio Alas, executive director of Fun­dacion Centroamericana, spoke on "Liberation Theol­ogy, Christian Base Commun­ities, and the Salvadoran Revo­lution" at the Center for Social Concerns Wednesday. 
Alas worked with the lower classes in El Salvador from 1967 untill977. There, minister­ing to a parish of 45,000, he helped spread Liberation The-,. ology throughout Salvadoran I society. 
Father Jose Alas

According to Alas, Libera­tion Theology concentrates on the kingdom of God," said the strength of people as a com­Alas. "Essentially, that is munity. It holds that people Liberation Theology." have introduced the structures In bringing about reform, the of sin in the world, said Alas, people of Central America and that these structures cause must take charge of their own poverty, oppression, and injus­destiny, Alas said. "Changes tice. FinaJly, it states that so-come from inside . . . . If you do not try to change by your­self, then nothing changes," he said. 
Alas noted the need for com­munity in El Salvador, where he says 70,000 people have been killed by death squads in recent years. 
He insisted there is still hope in Central America, saying that "in Central America we are working for the present time ... but at the same time we are working for our future." 
When asked what a United States church member could do, Alas replied that "as a per­son of faith, one must contrib­ute to the foreign policy of the country." Alas had earlier criticized U.S. aid to the El Sal­vador government responsible for many of the killings. 
Alas will be speaking again today at the Kellogg Institute at 12 p.m. 
The Prudential C7#M 
THE PRUDENTIAL -the nation's largest diversified financial services organization -is seeking ambitious and energetic individuals for positions in financial services, computer pro­gramming, underwriting, and administration. 
We're looking for the most talented future ex­ecutives we can find! If you have a strong background in accounting, finance, economics, math, computer science, or liberal arts, and are interested in the exciting and challenging posi­tions we have to offer, please submit your resume to your Career Planning Office as soon as possible. 
Our New Jersey and Pennsylvania offices will 
be recruiting on campus for these positions and we would love to have a chance to talk 
with you. 
For further information, please contact your Career Planning Office. We will be on your campus November 18, 1988. 
equal opportunity employer 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. fqr details. 
~ -~~----~-~----~--~~~-~---­
~page4~---------T~he0b~se~er~------~Thursd~ay,Oc~tober2~7,1988 
r 
r 
, ' ' 
r 
' 
'
~ 
r r I 
r r 
r 
' I 
r 
I 
I r 
I 
r 
I 
r 
I 
' 
r 
~ 
r 
,r 
r 
r 
f 
t 
t 
ONGRESSIONAL EBATE 
' 
r 
I 
for 3RD DISTRICT INDIANA 
r , r ~ 
Thursday, October 27, 1988 
8:30pm
f 
' 
' 
r 
Monogram Room, Joyce A. C. C. 
' 

Sponsored by Student Government, SUB, College Re ublicans, Colle e Democrats 
• 


Thursday, October 27, 1988 

NO law prof named Asst. Attorney General 
By JEFF SWANSON News Staff Douglas Kmiec, a Notre Dame Professor of Law, was unanimously confirmed by the 
U.S. Senate on October 14 as Assistant Attorney General. 
Nominated by President Reagan, Kmiec has worked for the Office of Legal Counsel and was a White House Fellow. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1980, Kmiec spe­cializes in property law and land use planning. 
Kmiec said that he sees his new position as "an important responsibility" which entails "the presentation of legal ad­vice to the President and Attor­ney General." He is currently on leave from Notre Dame and is scheduled to return in the fall of 1989. 

Kmiec is a former director of the Thomas White Center on Law and Government at Notre Dame and has taught at Val­parasio University and Indiana University. He is a graduate from the law school at the Uni­versity of Southern California. 
Kmiec's new position in­cludes working as assistant to the secretary of the Depart­ment of Housing and Urban De­velopment. 
IT'S HARD TO PASS. I 

I 
... Through a metal detector when you're the tin man. ... Funny money at the Federal Reserve. ... Carl Lewis in the 100 yd. dash. . . . The CPA EXAM without CONVISER DUFFY & MILLER 
CliNViSER 
Dlm'tjMI!UR 
1-800-274-EXAM 

WEDDINI WEEK CONTINUES••• 
fUPY ~ IIPP IIIYITI-TG: 
*THURSDAY 

The Observer  
SECURITY BEAT  
OCTOBER 23 9:00 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of a one vehicle accident on Lake Road. No injuries were reported. and damage estimates are unknown at this time.  OCTOBER 25 9:32 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of a minor two car accident on Dorr Road. f'lo injuries were reported. 3:50 p.m. A law student reported the theft  

Crime of the Week 
The Crime of the Week dates between 8:30p.m. and midnight back to Friday, March 26, 1988, by breaking out a small window when Stepan Center was in the kitchen at the back of the burglarized and vandals building. Vandals then entered 
destroyed several projects set the main floor, tipped over up for the South Bend School tables and broke exhibits. Most Corporation's science fair. Se­of the damaged exhibits curity reports that suspects en­belonged to students in gradestered Stepan Center sometime 4 to 7. The culprits also dis-
Call 288-STOP about this or any crime at Notre Dame. We won't ask your name and you'll be eligible for a cash reward. 
Final Four, predicts Phelps 
By JOHN O'BRIEN News Staff 
Notre Dame Head Basket­ball Coach Digger Phelps predicted great results for Notre Dame basketball at the St. Edward's Hall Forum last night. 
"We will go to theFinal Four, whether it's this year or next year," said Phelps, citing the fact that his two main objec­tives for this year were at­tained: a good recruiting class and a good schedule. 
Phelps called this year's schedule "the best we've ever played" and is not afraid of the challenge it will be for the team. "By March, with time and patience, these guys will able to handle anything." 
Phelps called freshman Lap­honso Ellis "one of the premier 
players in the country," adding 
that Ellis and fellow freshmen 
Damon Sweet and Elmer Ben­
nett are "Final Four players." 
In addition to the tough schedule and the promising recruits, Phelps stressed the importance of student support and fan participation to a win­ning seas~. He emphasizedthe inspir g effect of crowd participati n and made a plea to the student body, "Get this place electrified and you'll get these kids to Seattle." 
The apparent inexperience of the team does not frighten Phelps. He said the freshmen "will make mistakes early, but they'll learn from them and we'll win with them." 
In addition, the lack of senior players means that all 12 players will return for the 1989­90 season. "They won't just be 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Reporters 
Matt Gallagher For further information contact 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
BACHELOR PARTY AT LINEBACKER LOUNGE FROM 
*FRIDAY 

REHEARSAL DINNER AT JEREMIA~ SWEENEY'S FROM (FREE BUFFET) SENOR KELLY'S TO FOLLOW 
tiSATURDA Y--SOCIAL EVENT OF TH£ YEAR lf'£00/N6l£SSR£CEPTIONA TAtt£8/CANl£6/0NPOST.IQJ (2fl0tf/SHA lf'AKA A VD £/lOti8PH-2Atf T/K ONSALEATSENIOR CLASS OEEIC£ANOHA66AR CENTER ATStfC TOOAYANDFRIDAY lliNCLUOES CAK£.. BAND" TNANSPONTA liON 
*SUNDAY 

MASS AT CAVANAUGH WITH FR. MALLOY AT 

page 5 
of her books from her carrol on the upper level of the law library. The theft occurred sometime between 10/14 and 10/24. Her loss is estimated at $60.00. 
9:07 p.m. A South Bend resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for traveling 51 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Douglas Road. 
charged two fire extinguishers in the building. 
Notre Dame Crime Stoppers wants to know who is respon­sible for this senseless destruc­tion of children's science proj­ects and will pay a cash reward up to $300 for information leading to the apprehension of the responsible person(s). 
returning their numbers, they'll be bringing back quality, too." 
Phelps' lecture included more than the standard season preview. An outspoken adv­ocate of integrity in intercol­legiate sports, he commented on a recent Sports Illustrated article regarding steroid use at 
the University of South Carolina. 
"I couldn't believe that still goes on in intercollegiate sports. That wouldn't happen here-we wouldn't tolerate it," he said. 
He then repeated his policy of not recruiting transfer stu­dents and junior college graduates as well as his refusal to redshirt players. 
"I'm the guy that wants the 
national championship more than anyone else, but we're going to do it the right way for Notre Dame," he said . 
Icebreakers finally free iced whales 
Associated Press 
BARROW, Alaska-Two whales trapped for nearly three weeks in the arctic ice pack were freed Wednesday by Soviet and American icebreakers, superpower saviors who hacked a path to the open sea. 
"The whales are loose and in the channel and headed out," said Lt. Mike Haller, a spokes­

man for the Alaska National , ~ Guard. "They looked good all afternoon. To look at them, you'd have thought they had their bags packed and were ready to head south." 
l 
"They're in the main lead, and I can't help but think they'll ~eep on truckin'. I don't know how much more we can do," said rescue coordinator 
Ron Morris of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad­ministration. 
The work to free the migrat­ing California gray whales progressed rapidly Tuesday when two Soviet ice-breaking vessels began smashing the ice that kept the pair imprisoned. A third trapped whale is ..,elieved to have died last week. 
Morris, who followed the whales by helicopter, landed a little after 4 p.m. (9 p.m. EDT) to report that the whales had moved from the final man­made breathing hole to the slushy path the Soviet icebreaker Vladimir Arseniev cut Tuesday night. 





------~------------­
page 6 The Observer 
,r 
,
, 
-.
Crowded 
continued from page 1 
gn~i,!!lef 
to community service and in­definite probation, he said. 
Walker and the juvenile were arrested last Jan. 21 in connec­tion with a robbery in Cavanaugh Hall. The two al­legedly stole $92 in cash from a pair of Cavanaugh residents. 
The juvenile had knocked on doors, saying he was looking for Tony Taylor, but Cavanaugh had no one by that name, residents said. Another resident shouted that the suspect had "ripped us off." 
The two fled when ap­proached by a resident assis­tant, who detained the juvenile until Security arrived. Walker was apprehended by Security near the Law School, Johnson said. 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
didate, it made up in manners. Unlike the actual debates, both sides in the Grace event were polite to each other and an­swered rationally. 
The format was also much less restricted than the actual debates and resulted in more open dialogue between both sides. 
Each side was given time at the end to discuss topics it felt was left out. The Bush team used the opportunity to defend Quayle, while the Dukakis side countered by claiming Bentsen has a better record. 
After the debate ended, Lapsley thanked the several dozen students who attended and congratulated both teams for handling the event with professionalism. 
Future Hall Fellow events in­clude a discussion of what Notre Dame students are like and a lecture on the role of wo­men in the Catholic Church. 

In fact, the trend is relatively new for the University, Wad­dick said. "If you go back to 1978, we were dropping and the others were going up," he said, referring to the enrollment in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Within the college, govern­ment is the most popular major. Perry Arnold, chair­man of the department of gov­ernment and international studies, said he saw the popularity as "a long-term growth of the major". 
"This has always been a more popular major, although it does seem to be getting in­creasingly popular," said Ar­nold. "I wonder if government isn't seen by Notre Dame stu­dents as a more practical major," said Arnold, indica­ting that parental pressure and 
ea. 
(51<' SS) 
job concerns may influence students to choose more "hard­headed" majors. 
Monique Headly, a senior government major, said she chose the department mainly out of interest. "I've just al­ways been interested in politics, comparitively speak­ing, between Europe, South America, Africa. I like to know what's going on." As to the fu­ture, she says, "My career goal when I chose government ini­tially was law, but at this point it's constantly changing." 
Another senior in the depar­
tment, Dave Reider, also said I he has always been interested in politics, but is looking
towards a career. "People gen­erally think a government major isn't very practical, job-wise," Reider said. "Butlcan't think of a major that's better for someone looking for a job in foreign service or public ser­vice. It prepares them best." 
In terms of career possibili­ties for Arts and Letters majors on the whole, Waddick said many businesses these days are also looking for liberal arts graduates--especially in jobs 
fAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~ 
';;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;iiii!iiiiiiii.;.~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil ~ ~ 
-
~ 

._.,. ~ ~V A.~
yt.P 

A BEAUX-ARTS COSTUME GALA SPONSORED BY THE A.I.A.S.-ND 
featuring "THE GROOVE" 
SAT. OCT 29, 9-2 
tickets on sale in 
dining halls 

$5.00 presale I $6.00 at door 
The American Express'" Card gets an outstanding welcome virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket or a leather-bound classic Whether you're bound for a bookstore or a beach in Bennuda_ So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about everything you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success_ And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now Whether you're a freshman, senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers, For details, pick up an application on campus, Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for astudent application_ The American Express Card, 
Don't Leave School Without It~M 

Thursday, October 27, 1988 
which require human relations skills. "The attitude of some corporations is that we can teach them the business back­ground," Waddick said. 
"I think that some of the kids have realized that a liberal arts education is not the kiss of death in the job market," said Waddick. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint
Thursday, October 27, 1988 page 7 

The daily expenses of an interna­tional traveler in our fast-moving world equal or surpass the average annual salary of a Bangladesh laborer. Statis­tics like that are nearly impossible to fathom. There is no easy solution to the dilemmas posed by poverty and ter­ribly unequal distribution and use of world resources. That seems to be a fact of life in our modern world. 
David Schlaver 
guest column 
One hundred thirty-five years ago the first Holy Cross fathers, brothers and sisters landed near Chittagong on the Bay of Bengal to assist in the Christian missions of the distant Indian province of East Bengal. In this past half-cen­tury that land has undergone major changes in government (from India to East Pakistan to Bangladesh) and ex­perienced great growth in population. But true progress on the human front has been hard to find. 
Bangladesh was born as a nation in December 1971. Even now, well into its adolescence, this small Wisconsin­sized country seems to have nothing to offer the world, except people. We only received fleeting reports about its fre­quent disasters, like the worst flooding in history last month which has left 30 million of its 110 million people home­less. Of those people, over 90 million are Muslims, 15 million are Hindus, and the rest Buddhists, various tribal religions, and a mere handful of Christians--about 270,000 covering many denominations. 
In the same half-century of political changes, the local church has taken shape and now flourishes. The number 
of Catholic Christians is still small: less that two-tenths of one percent. But the roots of Christianity are deep (400 years), the faith is firmly planted, and Holy Cross has been an integral part of the growth of that local church for 135 years. 
Father Sorin himself was asked to go to Bengal in 1852, merely ten years after founding the University of Notre Dame. He politely refused, saying that 

Bangladesh mission strives for progress 
there was enough missionary work to be done right here. Another took his place and the Holy Cross presence on the opposite side of the globe was as­sured. 
Education has been a priority from the first days in Bengal, pioneered by the sisters at the elementary level and the brothers at the secondary level. Five excellent high schools and two major technical schools are sponsored by the brothers and one by the sisters. In addition, the fathers administer Notre Dame College and the sisters Holy Cross College, both tops in their field. 
Holy Cross has also founded and maintained hospitals, dispensaries and medical programs and worked in areas of development and justice, technical training and basic literacy. These proj­ects have always benefited people of all religions. Generous support for them has come from friends of Holy Cross all over the North American con­tinent. 
Among the small Catholic population, Holy Cross religious have labored to foster local communities of religious, to build up the diocesan clergy, and to train church leaders in seminaries and catechetical centers. Holy Cross priests have also assisted the bishops of three dioceses in maintaining extensive parishes serving many Catholics. The only actual "conversion" work was 
The work of one individ­ual or even a whole community in such a radically different envi­ronment, seems like a mere drop in the ocean. Yet, as Mother Teresa says so simply and di­rectly: "If we don't do it, then the ocean would have one less drop." 
done among the tribal peoples who have become the "new" Christians during the last century. 
Scores of Holy Cross religious have spent their entire lives in service of the people of Bangladesh. They have been sent to bring the gospel to them, to teach and heal them, and to give them hope. 

Doonesbury  
(}H-OH... ANOTHeR ON&...  GOOD MORNING, SIR'  tl/()()W YOU HAPPEN 7() HAV& A SPARE $J8 ~ MYSIJFJSCRJPTION 70 7H& "N/fT/ONAI.-f?EV!f'.IAJ" IS ABafT 7V LAP5e t \  H/Z, H/Z! THAT5 NOT A 8.4D RAP. rM GOING TO GO FOR IT, YOUNG LADY. I  

In December, two new Holy Cross vice-provinces will be launched. The Vice-Province of Priests will have over 50 professed members and the Vice­Province of Brothers over 40. In both groups the majority of members are now Bangladeshis. In addition, the Sisters of the Holy Cross have about 25 members of whom more than half are Bangladeshi women, and the Canadian Sisters number about ten. 
Sunday, Oct. 23, was "Mission Sun­day" around the world. At Notre Dame we celebrated this significant part of the history of Holy Cross which links us here at Notre Dame with a church and people in far away Bengal. We wel­comed Fr. Frank Quinlivan to Sacred Heart Church that weekend. He spent six years in Bangladesh (1979-85) and now serves as novice director for Holy Cross in Colorado. 
Holy Cross is proud of Fr. Frank's work in Bangladesh as pastor and fel­low traveler with a people struggling to improve their lot and deepen their faith. He learned their language and listened to their problems; he gave them his full attention and love and in the process found that they gave him much more in return. 
The work of one individual or even a whole community in such a radically different environment seems like a mere drop in the ocean. Yet, as Mother Theresa says so simply and directly: "If we don't do it, then the ocean would have one less drop." And that could be a worse tragedy for us than the misfor­tunes we see others suffering all over our world. 
Pray for our distant brothers and sisters and for those who serve in their midst. And help them materially if you can. We are linked to them forever in God's provident plan. 
Father Schlaver served in Bangladesh (1979-81 J before becoming director of Notre Dame Campus Ministry. He is now editor and publisher at Ave Maria Press on campus. 
P.O. Box Q 
and dinner on Oct. 27, sponsored by the Run benefits Notre Dame and St. Mary's Right to Life group. 
Legal Aid From the time of his appointment as Dear Editor: Chairman of the Pro-Life Committee of The Fourth Annual "Race Judicata" the National Conference of Catholic will be run on Saturday, Oct. 29 at 10 Bishops, Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, 
a.m. It is a three-mile run sponsored Archbishop of Chicago, encouraged the by the Phi Alpha Delta legal fraternity. development of a unified and ethical Proceeds from the race will be donated approach to the many different aspects to the Notre Dame Legal Aid and that the basic question of respect for Defender Association. Runners and human life takes on in our tradition. walkers will convene in front of the law The consistent ethic of life draws on school and will follow the course around basic elements of Catholic social teach­the Notre Dame campus. Everyone ing, as the Cardinal pointed out in 1983, who participates will receive a com­while acknowledging that not all the dif­memorative T-shirt with the "Race ferent issues can be collapsed into one. Judicata" logo emblazoned on it. "Human life is sacred for us," he wrote, 
This will be an excellent opportunity "and for this reason, we have a duty to for students, faculty and staff to enjoy protect and foster it at all stages of de­the last weekend before the really bad velopment and in all circumstances." weather begins. At the same time par­This is an area where we can show ticipants will also help Legal Aid con­concern in a special way through the tinue to promote legal equality for all study and promotion of the different ap­in the Notre Dame and Michiana com­plications this teaching has for us. I munities. Sign-ups will continue would encourage as many of you as pos­through Friday afternoon in the Legal sible to participate with our local ordi­Aid office in the Law School basement. nary, Bishop John D'Arcy, in the special Race day sign-ups will also be avail­Mass which will be celebrated on this able. The fee is only $9. We encourage occasion. all who are able to help to support us Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. in this worthy cause. President, Notre Dame 
Michael McClory Oct. 25, 1988 Off-campusOct. 25,1988--------------...., 
The Observer retains the 
right to edit all commen­taries submitted to the 
Right to Life 
sponsors Mass 
Viewpoint department. 
Please note that the briefer
Dear Editor: 

Through this letter, I am pleased to 
the piece, the greater its 
have an opportunity to encourage the 
chances of reaching print.
members of the Notre Dame commu­nity to attend the second annual Mass 1-._
________________,J 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the Day 
POINTS OF 
l-IGHT. l'V&
THOUSANTJ 

A/.J?&ADYM&T
«!HAP' 

fOURCF~
I 70/?AY! 
"Loneliness and the feeling of being unwanted is the most terrible poverty." 
Mother Teresa 1910­


Viewpoint Grad students must assimilate at ND 
page 8 Thursday, October 27, 1988 
Most people are unaware that Notre Dame has not just one campus, but two campuses....The second camJ?US is made up of three dorms: Brownson Hall, St. Joseph's, and O'Hara-Grace. 
Victor J. Krebs 
metanoia 
Brownson Hall is right behind the Dome, in the very heart of the Notre Dame campus. O'Hara-Grace is just across the street from Knott and Siegfried. And St. Joseph is right next to St. Joseph's Lake, not any farther than Holy Cross or Carroll Hall are from some parts of the campus. These three dorms are graduate student dorms; yet the fact is, graduate dorms are not considered on-campus. 

Nobody seems to know where these dorms are. Campus announcements never get there. When student campus mailings are sent out, graudate dorms r are hardly ever included; football ,r ticket applications, for example, were mailed at the beginning of the semester 
, 
to all on-campus students, except graduate dorms. For all practical pur­poses, it is as if graduate dorms make up a separate campus. 
But why are graduate dorms not con­sidered part of the Notre Dame campus? The problem here is clearly not physical distance. No, the reason is rather rooted in a general "graduate student" mindset that prevails at Notre Dame. The dorm example is merely one of the many symptoms of this mindset. This mindset is responsible for the peculiarly neglected situation of graduate students at Notre Dame: it creates a spiritual and psychological distance between graduate students and the rest of the community. 

"Graduate students exist, yes," you will be told, "we see them around (or at least we think we do, every now and then), but for all practical purposes, they are not really there. And that is natural of course since they are differ­ent. They are older, they spend all their time doing research and reading books, and they are not interested in what goes on on campus." 
That is the stereotype, and it defines the general "graduate student" mindset in our community. At the sug­gestion that graduate students are not after all that different, or that they may be interested in what goes on in the community, eyebrows are usually raised in incredulity, dumbfounded ex-• pressions at the apparent contradiction (graduate students have a life apart from their research and away from their labs? ! ) , and a general skepticism about the suggestion. "No," people will reply, ''they are not interested, and be­sides they have no time...." 
The "graduate student" mindset is soprevalent that only within a couple of months many graduate students begin to contract it. They too start to share the view that they have nothing in common with the rest of the commu­nity, or don't have the time or the in­terest to get involved. In that way they help perpetuate the mindset and, as a consequence, they live in this community--many even longer than undergraduates do-leaving little behind 
The "graduate student" mindset is so prevalent that only within a couple of months many gradu­ate students begin to contract it. 
them and taking with them tortuous memories of how tough those years of graduate research had to be, and how little they grew personally. 
The saying goes that whereas Notre Dame is the mother of all undergradu­ates, it is the stepmother of graduate students. How sadly true it is! 
But Father Malloy has a vision of Notre Dame becoming a prominent graduate institution. We all want to see that happen, perhaps graduate stu­dents more than anyone else. But before that can happen that mindset must be changed. Instead of being fixed on the differences which separate graduate students from the rest (an ob­sessive assumption that has been the cause of the critical segregation suf­fered by graduate students at Notre Dame), we must look for the similarities, goals and purposes shared by them and the rest of the University so that they can start finding their place in this community. 
There is no denying that graduate students are in many respects differ­ent, and as such they have different needs that must be attended to. Some radical changes will need to be made, no doubt. And these changes cannot be limited to the improvement of our aca­demic programs. The living conditions of graduate students must improve at every level. 
The change that is needed will be painful, as any change in the status quo tends to be. But if Notre Dame wants to become an important graduate insti­tution, a rich and vital intellectual cen­ter, we need to begin thinking about graduate students' needs, academic and personal, and about how to meet them. 
If we are committed to the growth of the graduate school, we must begin to think differently. The "graduate stu­dent" mindset must be shed by all, graduate students, undergraduates, and the University administration alike. In the end we will all benefit from that. 
Victor J. Krebs is a graduate student in philosophy and is president of the Graduate Student Union. 
• 

National health plan makes sense 
Socialized medicine. For Americans, these words wreak havoc upon our in­tellectual, moral and institutional poli­tical responses. Anything ''socialized'' must certainly connote communism, and as every red-blooded, flag-waving American understands, this must be a bad thing. Socialized medicine, there­fore, must be shunned and avoided at all cost. At least that is what the Amer­ican Medical Association would have us believe. 
Michael Schadek 
on abroad 
After all, socialized services neces­sarily relegate competition--hence efficiency--to a lesser priority, and theoretically the patients lose quality health care. Remember, however, that 

r 
r 
!, r 
r 
r r 
this falsehood is propagated by the AMA, one of the largest and most pow­erful special interests in Washington. In essence, it is the AMA's job to main­tain the huge profits secured by scrupulous and unscrupulous doctors, all in the name of good medicine. 
While I cannot claim complete knowl­edge of the U.S. health care profession, I have experienced a remarkable event 
which brought my perception of our system into question. During my first travel break here in London, my mom came to visit. To her dismay as well as mine, the night before we were sched­uled to leave for Paris, she suddenly developed a minor eye infection. As the condition worsened, we decided it necessitated a visit to the nearby hospi­tal emergency room. 
Upon arrival, we were surprised by the prompt attention she received. A small sign on the wall indicated 

r 
r 
r 

~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

r The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the oommunity and the free expression of varying 
patients were seen in accordance with the severity of their condition. After answering all the preliminary ques­tions concerning her general health, my mother reached for her insurance cards which are so very crucial to service in American hospitals. Very nonchalant­ly, the nurse shook her head and said, "Those won't be necessary. You're in 
Is it asking too much of the richest, most tech­nologically advanced nation on earth to pro­vide all its citizens with a national health plan? 
Great Britain now and we do things dif­ferently.'' My mom and I were shocked, and to our further surprise, a doctor examined her thoroughly, explained the condition and gave her the neces­sary eye medication. We then proceeded to walk out of the hospital without having paid a dime, all thanks to the British National Health Service. 
One could not help but feel that here was a system truly dedicated to the health and well-being of the patient. Gone was the cold, callous, profit­dominated mentality of so many Amer­ican hospitals, and instead the idyllic stature of medicine as a healing agent seemed to rule. The fact that my mom was not a citizen did not matter in the least. The point remained that she re­quired health care and the National Health Service responded with quality, efficient service as it does for every British man, woman and child regard­less of status. One cannot help but be 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ............... ...................... Chris Murphy Managing Editor .... ........................... Chris Donnelly News Editor .. .. .. ... . . . .. ..... . ................. Aegis Coccia News Editor............. . ..... Mark Mclaughlin Viewpoint Editor.. . ........ Matt Slaughter Sports Editor. .. .................... Marty Strasen Accent Editor........ . ..................... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor.................... . ...... Michael Moran 
impressed, and at the same time, one cannot help but begin to question our system, which stands in stark contrast to that of the NHS. 
Is it asking too much of the richest, most technologically advanced nation on earth to provide all its citizens with a national health plan? It not only makes sense from a moral standpoint-­after all, should health care, a basic human necessity, really be contingent upon an individual's ability to pay?-­but it makes economic sense as well. Because Great Britain can draw upon 
the national resources and everyone pays into the system, costs are much lower as a whole. Thus, the percentage of GNP spent on health care in Great Britain is 5.9 percent, and everyone is covered. By contrast, the United States pays 10.5 percent of its GNP for health care, yet millions upon millions aren't lucky enough to partake in the service. 
Obviously something is wrong with our system, and it is time to take a new look at real reform, even though the AMA will undoubtedly protest it all the way. In the meantime, one can only hope to find oneself in London during any serious health problems because the care and treatment will be superb as well as free of charge. 
Michael A. Schadek is a junior cur­rently studying in the College of Arts and Letters' London Program and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Submit all commentaries to: The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Operations Board 
Business Manager . . .. ....... John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen Advertising Manager..... .. .... Unda Goldschmidt Production Manager. . ..... Bernadette Shins Systems Manager . . .... Mark Ridgeway Controller......................... .. ........ Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager.... .. ............. Marga Bruns 
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Founded November 3,1966 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-
Accent
Thursday, October 27, 1988 page 9 
Mud-slinging Mom breaks sit-com mold 
R
emember when TV moms were perfect? Mrs. Brady never flew off the handle when her kids swore (you know, "Bobby's a stinker."), and only Maggie Seaver would ground herself for lying to prove a point; however, those days of life in Xanadu are over. This year one TV mom dares to call her children "three little mooches who suck ourselves dry." That woman could only be Roseanne Barr. 
Joe Bucolo 
To Be Continued 

On Tuesdays at 7:30p.m. after "Who's the Boss?" ABC airs TV's most realistic sit­com and surest hit, "Roseanne." The show stars Barr as Roseanne Parker, a loving, caring, and sarcastic mother of three. Dan (John Goodman) is Roseanne's hus­band who has a hard time finding a job and an even harder time holding on to one. The three "mooches" are Becky (Lecy Goranson), Darlene (Sarah Gilbert), and 
D.J. (Michael Fishman). The series also features Roseanne's sister Jackie (Laurie Metcalf> and friend Crystal <Natalie West>, who work with Roseanne at the factory. 
What makes the show so appealing is its sarcastically­tainted sense of realism. Gone are the traditional sit­com plots like brothers be­
coming each other's slaves 
for life or mothers and daughters spending the day at the hair salon. This show has the unique ability to find the humor in common, everyday situations. 
One plot in which the children are misbehaving provokes Roseanne to declare, "This is why some species eat their young." The kids on this show talk back. When Darlene asks Roseanne 

why she's so mean, the mot­her replies, "Because I hate kids and I'm not your real mom." Darlene does not mind: "Then at least there's hope." While Dan tries to pay off some of the Parkers' many bills, Roseanne tells him about her own personal method: "You pay the ones marked 'final notice' and throw the rest away." The children are soon fighting again and, after D.J. says that Becky hates him, Roseanne responds, "You go right ahead and hate her back." 
Just as Roseanne's relation­ship with her children is far from harmonious, her rela­tionship with Dan is subject to her own moods. When Dan decides to apply for a job, she says, "You're not going to get it." Dan replies, "Well, 


The Observei"Sheila Lombard Art is on display in its early stages at St. Mary's College. 
Calvin and Hobbes 


JUST 1\\I~K. EA~ Wt6 A 3 BILLION ~~ t.,(:{J, ntE C\.0\JO Or 0\JSi 4.5 BILL\0~ RRSI 8ACITRI~ A.Pfg>.,REO, nlEN '{EN<:, AGO ... CAME. SE.I\ LIFE I OINOSf>-\JRS, 
r-----1 BIRDS, MAI'IIMALS, At-ID, FINALL~, t.. MILLION '{EARS />GO, M~l'\. 


there's a lot of guys bid­ding ... and they're all a lot better than you, I bet." 
Beneath this surface of derogatory mud-slinging which reminds one of the up­coming presidential election, the Parkers are a loving fam­ily. Viewers watch as Roseanne helps her children with homework, encourages them to participate in house­hold chores, and helps them to believe in themselves. In one scene during which Dan and Roseanne are fighting, 
D.J. cuts himself and the fight takes a back seat as Roseanne and Dan comfort their son only as parents can. 
The performances are won­derful. While Barr still tends to act from time to time as if she were doing stand-up com­edy, she is a natural in this role. (She should be; it was made for her.) She is a mot­her to whom viewers can relate. Goodman is also quite good as Dan. He is able to play off Barr and portray a caring, individualistic hus­band. A final word must be said about the show's sets. The Parker residence is messy and always upset; things aren't always in their places--in fact, they seldom are. This is a refreshing switch form the glamorous, unrealistic homes depicted on other shows. 
"Roseanne" is a witty, won­derful comedy that makes even the most routine of inci­dents seem funny. When a 
Industrial Diamond Series sparkles at Moreau Gallery 
PATTY O'NEIL accent writer 
T 
he Saint Mary's College art gallery has existed for thirty-three years yet little is known about its existence. This could be due to the fact that it is difficult to find. The Moreau Gallery is located in the basement of Moreau, and the Little Theatre and Hammes Galleries are on the main floor just outside of the Little Theatre Auditorium. 
There are new shows held every month. This month the Industrial Diamond Series by Chris Rockmore is being shown in Moreau Gallery, and "Perhaps Civilization is a Lie" by Jim Buonaccorsi is being shown in Little Theatre Gallery. On Oct. 7 there was an opening reception from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. for Therese 
Bill Watterson 
-
saleslady tells Roseanne the fastest way to a man's heart is through the use of perfume, Roseanne smugly suggests it is through his chest. ABC knows better. It knows the quickest way to the viewers' hearts is "Roseanne." 
Stay Tuned: Tonight, Valene's fate is revealed as "Knots Landing" begins its new season on CBS. "Dallas" and "Falcon Crest" begin their seasons tomorrow night. "Cheers" presents its season premiere tonight followed by an all-new episode of "Dear John." Get the VCR ready, because on Nov. 13, ABC begins "War and Remembrance," its 30-hour blockbuster mini-series. 
Zemlin's "Cast Paper Instal­lation" and Maria Gonzalez's "Photography" in Moreau Gallery. 
The Gallery likes to repre­sent local, regional, and na­tional artwork. This is accom­plished by sending out exhibition screenings, which ask for slides and resumes from artists around the country. The Gallery Board, which is comprised of faculty members, students, and se­lected community representa­tives, then votes for the top exhibits based on the infor­mation they receive. 
Bill Tourtillote, director of the art gallery, said there is generally a good turnout for the receptions by students. He also said that the Gallery is striving to show more con­temporary work, and that "we are trying to challenge and stimulate people. They don't have to necessarily like what they see, just as long as they experience it." 
Gallery hours: Tuesday­Friday, 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.; Satur­day, 10 a.m. to 12 p.m.; and Sunday, 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
WVFI 
AM 64 
Top 10 Albums 
6. PAUL KELLY AND THE
Oct. 7 -Oct. 14 
MESSENGERS "Under the 
1. 
LET'S ACTIVE "Every Dog Sun" Has Its Day" 7. HUXTON CREEPERS 

2. 
THE FEELIES "Only Life" "Keep to the Beat" 

3. 
THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS 8. THE WEATHER PROP­"Lincoln" HETS "Judges, Juries, Horse­

4. 
JANE'S ADDICTION "Noth­men" ing's Shocking" 9. SIOUXIE AND THE BAN­

5. 
BILLY BRAGG "Workers SHEES "Peep Show" Playtime" 10. THE SMITHS "Rank" 


-

-
SPORTS BRIEFS . 
The NO Crew team will hold a mandatory on the second floor of LaFortune. Plans for the The Saint Mary's soccer game today against meeting for all officers tonight at 7:30 in Nieuwland spring semester will be discussed. Questions should IUSB, originally scheduled for 5:30p.m at Coveleski Science Hall. Following the officers' meeting, there be directed to Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Obser­Stadium, now will be played at Saint Mary's at 4:30 will be a general meeting for all Notre Dame varsity ver p.m. -The Observer rowers at 8 p.m. in room 123 of Nieuwland Science The NO Squash Club is sponsoring a talk Hall. -The Observer by Harvard squash coach David Fish on Saturday 
at 4:30p.m. on squash court one of the Joyce ACC. The SMC track team will have a meetingIrish Outdoors is holding an organizational Coach Fish will speak on fundamentals and strat­for anyone interested in joining the team today at meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame room egies of squash. -The Observer 8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, October 27, 1988

NOTICES  OPPORTUNITY IN THE TRAVEL IN· DUSTRYI  NEEDED-2-4 Rice GA's. Call Sue 284­5063.  Dlacem where God Ia leading you Share In a womens' retreat at Mary's  F-GOOD LUCK. YOU'LL DO FINE. I WUVWUI-B  The roommates of Kent Fido Olson are proud to honor him on his 19th birthday.  
The # 1 college tour operator is looking  ·························  Solitude-St. Mary's, Oct. 28-29, 7p.m.­ He has displayed many admirable traits  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  for an efficient, responsib and organized campus representative to market a  I NEED 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL JULIE AT 284­ 7p.m. Call Sr. Arlene at 284-5599  The Mimeslayers need a vocalist. must  at Notre Dame such as child-molesting, frequent and prolonged intoxication,  
Spring Break trip on campus. Earn free  5440  eat glass for desired effect. Must make  repeated acts of stupidity and jC·<•t plain  
- Matt "Schmeal'' Gallagher for VP  trips, and good commissions while gaining great business experience. For  HELP! I NEED 2-4 GA'S FOR RICE  John Lydon seem like a Las Vegas act. Violent psychedelia, etc. call t121  being a pain in the butt. For these reasons he has been named the Presi­ 
more information call 1-800-999-4300.  CALL JULIE AT 284-5342 THANKS  SLEUTHS,  dent of the Hall of Shame We are sure  
Club 23 Pizza, sandwiches,  he'll eam another notch In the Vomit  
TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Books  F5RICE TICKETS  GET YOUR MAGNIFYING GLASSES  vegetarian. Close to campus.  Comet tonight!!!  
tor ALL claaaes still available! UN­ WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST  I need two Student or GA tickets  
BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's  FOR VITO'S BARBER SHOP. CALL  Call 283-3666, and leave message if  Witness the MURDER IN DISGUISE  HELP!! I need ride to MADISON for HAL­ SOPHOMORES  
Books, 608 Howard St., just off of NO  233-4767.  no answer.  LOWEEN (Oct 28) Pat 1746  TONIGHT, TONIGHT  
Ave. 233-2342.  (If you dare... )  SOPH NIGHT AT BARNABY'S  
MODEL UNITED NATIONS will be  $4 ALL YOU CAN EAT  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  SPRING BREAK TOUR PROMOTER·  HEY!  having a BRIEF meeting at 7:30 p.m.  BUSSES LEAVE MAIN CIRCLE  
MRS. COKER 233-7009.  ESCORT Energetic paraon, (Mf'), to  NEED THREE TICKETS TO PENN  WHO WILL BE THE VICTIM OF MY  Thursday In 122 Hayes-Healy to dis­ AT 5:30 & 611!1  
take algn-ups lor our FLORIDA tours.  STATE  cuss our concession stand and when  DON'T MISS IT!  
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR  We tumlah all matarlalslor s success­ CALL CHRIS AT 1644  BLOODY WRATH?  to have our next simulation. Bring a  
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING  ful promotion. Good PAY and FUN.  friend!II  Holy B-Day Meg-a-a is 20 today II Maybe  
237-1949  Call CAMPUS MARKETING at 1-800­ ·····························  Mo will match your shots agai n, and the  
777-2270.  NEED 2 (OR 4) RICE GA'S CALL  CHICAGO BUS TRIP--"Windy City  deathmobile is ready to hit Chicago,4AM,  
~~~:-~.~~~~~.:~-~~~~~~~~--~----~:::: I LOST/FOUND I • _  I FOR SALE APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in-eluding keyboard, green-screen monitor,  WENDY X1511 $$$ NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE CALL SHEILA--27t-9365 HELPI!I NEED t PENN STATE TICKET. $$$ # 2697  WEEKEND WHEELS Coming soon to a stop near you  Shuttle" sponsored by the Student Activ­ities Office, will run this Saturday, Oct. 29. The bus will leave the Main Circle at 9:45 am and return at t 0 pm. Tickets are available for $1 0 at the lnformatio Desk 1st Floor LaFortune. Next shuttle will run Saturday, Nov. 12.  the Marriot, I'm all over it( even if its my lurn to get kicked in the back). This year has been great, thanx for being my roomate and my friend. Go Duke! SENIORS!! St;=NIORS!I BUY YOUR TIX NOW FOR SATURDAY'S WEDDING­LESS REC-SEPTION!! AM. LEGION-­ 
disk drive. Hewlett Packard printer. Ap­ WANTED: 4 Tickets for Penn State  HELP! Alumn spent all day lookln for  $71j>erson  
LOST: BLUE N.D. 10 CASE AT THE COMMONS OR IN CORBY'S PARKING  pleworks word processor, blank data dis­ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283­ call Erin x428t  WEEKEND WHEELS  Miami ticket and did not have time to buy a T-ahir!. Really WANTS NEEDS  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS  
LOT  3481.  T-ahir! with large football ticket on  
THURS. 106 CALL BRIDGET 289-7616  NEED PENN GA'S & t RICE STUD X- Coming soon to a stop near you  front and CBS sports on back. If you  Grab a date or come stag  
CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S  3100  have one, please call Margaret at 233·  to the  
SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER  6161.  JUNIOR BARN DANCE  
LOST: SAPPHIRE HEART AND CHAIN  $100.00? CALL FOR FACTS TODAY.  NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S PLEASE Ill  Sat. Oct. 29  
LAST  602-837-3401. EXT. 881.  WILL PAY$$ 239-7323  WEEKEND WHEELS  HELP! Alumn spent all day lookln for  Sat. Oct. 29  
FRIDAY AT SOUTH DINING HALL. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. SEE CLAUDINE AT SOUTH DINING  250$ Roundtrip Airlare South bnd to Portland Call Rog # 1958  I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S I Preferably together. Call Sharon at 288-2314.  Coming soon to a stop near you  Miami ticket and did not have time to buy a T-ahir!. Really WANTS NEEDS T-ahir! with large football ticket on front and CBS sports on back. If you  Yes, this Saturday! Tickets ($7) on Sale all week from 7-9 in all SMC dorms JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS  
HALL.  1978 AMC Concord  have one, please call Margaret at 233·  
2-d, P.S., Air, Auto, Mich tires  NO HOCKEY VS. R.I.T. FRIDAY' AND  6161.  
Lost:pair of red glasses in burg. case wl blue dot pattern on Mon 1Ot between cushing 2nd fl. and Farley hall. if you picked them up, please call Molly x3560  new battery and brakes, excellent for student. Good car. $1695 Call Chris 284-4288 RICE WEEKEND  3 RICE ST. TIX 4 SALE (x3201 lv. b'o & mess.) Need Penn St. GAs--uncle's company will pay top dollar for tix. Call Mike 3540.  SATURDAY NIGHT, 7:30. WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST FOR VITO'S BARBER SHOP. CALL 233-4767.  SERENADES! SERENADES! English or Spanish songs Costumes, tool Perlect for all occasions. Call ED at 3239. Want to have it said? Have it sung!  My foreign Adm1rer Definition restricts! The mind confuses! The heart knows best! Joyster Attention SMC freshman  
PLEASE HELP ME !!IIIII I lost a silver watch probably be hind St. Edwards Hall. If you found ~. please call Jim at x-t561. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE!III If I'm not in, please leave a message. Thank you. LOST: A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN LEATHER CASE AT SMC HOLY CROSS SYR.  Rooms available next to campus JAMISON INN (219) 277-9682 TICKETS I NEED TIXS FOR All HOME GAMES.272-8306 I NEED RICE TIXIII Let's be serious--you don't want to see us play Rice, but my family does. I need  I NEED 1 OR 2 PENN ST TIX call Deborah 3706 I need 2 Penn St. Ga's and t Stud. Call Dan Xt428 I NEED PENN STATE TIXII PLEASE CALL X2984 IF YOU HAVE ANY TO SELL HELP!! Need 2 Rice Tix Parents corning to D for t st time! Please' Bob x1794 ENDAD  No shaving Basins in Taipei No Circus Lunch in Taiwan No Bill Webb Day in the R.O.C. Help! Reply to: Jim Carroll T.I.Y.A.C. Room 902 30 Shin Hai Road, Sec. 3 Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 50 FT. YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS GROUPS OF 8 $435 PP 7 DAYS 1-8011-999-7245 ANYTIME ARRANGE SMALL GROUP & CRUISE FREE  TASTE FROM AROUND THE WORLD Food & entertainment at Chamelon Room, HAGGAR-SMC OCT. 27, 7-10 P.M. Sponsored by Sound and Student Gov't. $2 Admission at door. DISC JOCKEY WANTED. APPLY THURSDAY IN PERSON, 8 PM TO 10 PM AT THE SPORTS BAR, 746 S. ED­DY, OR CALL FROM 8-10 PM 233-4858. Road trip from hell  Get your paint brushes ready November 12 Happy Birthday to The Most Rad! You've made the last month one huge smile, because you are TFCA. Thanks for all of your love and prayers, I could never ask for anything more. Have an awesome day, and expect everything in the year ahead. always ... Beav.  
IF YOU STOLE IT ...JUST GIVE ME THE  8 tickets for the game. If you can help,  18 hours to  
FILM, PLEASE. JEFF X3580 FOUND: WATCH AT NO BUS STOP. CALL 2485. FOUND: WATCH AT NO BUS STOP. CALL 2485. LOST RED. BLUE AND GREY SKI COAT  please call me at 283-1 069 ask for The Beeler. PLEASE HELPI-4 RICE GA'S NEEDED AND ONEGA OR STUDENT FOR PENN STATE CALL SUSAN-284-4373. Need as many AIR FORCE GA'S as pos­sible. Will pay any price. Michelle at SMC­4395.  NEED PENN STATE TICKETS! NOONE WILL PAY MOREt CALL 283-4772 Need VAN HALEN TIX? Well, I've got 2 for you. Just call 4t 07 with best offer. 4 PENN GA'S NEEDEDII WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT WITHIN REASON. CALL TIM 16t6 OR BRUCE 3t3-628-4300 8-5p.m.  BASS PLA¥ER FOR ROCK N ROLL BAND NEEDED call Jim 288-6207 Scott 283-3249 CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING Thursday Night at Senior Bar 11 pm  Hopeless Function, NY 10. Pegged in Pennsylvania 9. Chris, is EVERYTHING horrendous? 8. Can't beat that 3 to 1 ratio! 7. How the hell did you qualify for a geography scholarship to ND with navigational abiliNes like that? 6. Do you want to get weighed? 5. Des­tiny had an addadicktomy. 4. This sucks and blows 3. Bites, 2. Swallows, and 1. Chews  DOG'S BEST FRIEND, Monk wants to know the name ol his best friend. The Girl With the Dog KATHY SHANNON & AM. DEGA JOYEUSES ANNIVERSAIRES, MES AMIES! PASSEZ LES BONNES JOUR­NEES. NE M'OUBLIEZ PAS! CHRISSY  
FROM SENIOR BAR COAT ROOM $20 REWARD WITH NO QUESTIONS ASKED PLEASE CALL STEVE X-4358  Need 2 Penn State Tix(prefer stu­dent)Will pay $$1 Call Rich at 33t7. 2 TIX INCLUDED EACH HOME GAME  Muffin is corning to NO finally but she needs a ticket for PENN STATE (either GA or student) Please call Beth xt264.  Come see Catholics in Bad Standing UB40  To be continued on the return trip from Thanksgiving break..  TO THE CUTE GUY WHO SELLS TICK­ETS FROM 12 TO 3 AT THE LAFOR­TUNE INFO. DESK: You look like the  
LOST:necklace with blue onyx, heart shaped pendant.REWARD. See Claudine in South Dining Hall.  WITH WEEKEND RENTAL OF 1 BEDROOM APT. 3 BLKS. FROM N.D. $350  An alumni friend of mine has two PENN STATE GA's. Call 287-4906 with best offer  UB40 UB40 WVFIIS TAKING A BUS TO CHICAGO  THE EXCITEMENT IS BACK  kind of guy who would befriend a hermit crab--! like that in a person! --A Secret Admirer  
Found: Kodak camera on the 1ield alter the Pitt game. Call Dave at # 4020.  CALL 219 272-2720 I need 2 studGA tixs for Penn St. call  NEED: 2 RICE GA'S 2 RICE STU 12 PENN STU CALL ROB-277 -9438  FOR THE SHOW ON NOV 4. $25 FOR BUS & Tl RESERVE SPACE BY BRINING MONEY TO STATION ON 2ND FL LAFORTUNE M 3 & 5PM UN­ NO HOCKEY FRI-SAT 1Qo28,29 7:30PM  Matt Slaughter, I have $10 million, when do we start? Sergio.  
HELP!! I LOST MY KEYS BEFORE BREAK AND MY ROOMMATE WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T FIND THEM SOON IF YOU HAVE FOUND A SET OF KEYS WITH 139 ON THE DORM KEYS. PLEASE CALL ME AT # 4205--­THANKS  4431. I need 4 Rice Stud Tix; John x4364 WANTED: SIX RICE GA's, count 'em, 6 will pay CA$h ... call Frank or Rob-3137  I need 1 stu and 4 GA's to Rice. Call John, 277-5364. I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S; MONEY IS NO OBJECT; CALL MARK 2171 need 2 or 4 PENN STATE GA 288-4160  TIL FRIDAY 1Qo29. SPACE IS LIMITED! YOUR VOTE COUNTSII Congressional Debate John Hiler v. Torn Ward Thursday 1Qo27 8:30 p.m. ACC Monogram Room Tickets Available--Not Required NO and SMC Student Government  JACC CHECK IT OUT! An earthquake will rock your world. $$$$$ PENN STATE TIX WANTED  BRESLIN, YOU ARE A PUPPET. HPC HOLDS THE POWER. WE WILL CRUSH YOU. JUNIORS! IT'S YOUR DUTY, IMPEACH BRESLIN. IF CHILE CAN GET RID OF PINOCHET. WE CAN BE FREED OF BRESLIN.  
FOUND: Black puppy after Miami game Call Barry at 239-5755 days.  I NEED RICE TICKETS BADLVIII  I need PENN ST. stud tix-call 3808  ALL INVITED  GA OR STUD TIX CALL 234-1048 .... jen.  ATTENTION MEN OF THE SENIOR  
- FOR RENT  Okay, everybody needs tickets here and there, but my parents are coming so I need 2 GA's. Please call Kerstin at 283­4220. You betche I need llcketall  Do you need NAVY tickets? Call Mary x1759 2 RICE G.A.'s needed! Call Lou 289­o4315.  ALUMNI SR. CLUB THURSDAY NIGHT CUP NIGHT CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING SPORTS RAFFLE DRAWING BE THEREI!IIIIIIIIIII!  Kelrs Kaz You're the greatest. Te Amo, Your not so 11ecret admirer. ATTENTION I  CLASSII BACHELOR PARTY LINEBACKER LOUNGE BIFF'S LAST NIGHT OF FREEDOM  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153.  Please call the Beeler to sell him 8 GA's for the Rice game. And when you call, tell Steve you think he's cute. Call 1069  CALL ME AT 2853 IF YOU HAVE PENN STATE STUDENT TIX FOR SALE  FATAL ATTRACTION FATAL ATTRAC­TION Tues, Wed, Thurs 9 & 11 SMC $1 Carroll Aud FATAL ATTRACTION  Come join the NHL's largest booster club N.J. DEVILS FAN CLUB  S TIP I Who is STIP? STIP is a super1hero. (Fear her.) STIP biles. STIP is ICE. STIP likes  
to sell tickets.  NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S JOE X1728  FATAL ATTRACTION AT SMC TUES  Trips! Prizes! Meet Devils players! Con­tact Jeff at 1895  her men sweaty. STIP is kind of progres­sive. Sometimes STIP wears glasses.  
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'N Breakfaat luat 20 mlna. from NO. 1-1 for al NO llcllvltlea. Reserve now. 618-471-5711. BED 'N BREAKFAST wbath. Mlna. to campua. Avail. for Rice & Penn St. 2n­7696. WANTED OVERSEAS JOBS. Summer,  I NEED TWO PENN ST. GA'S. ANY PRICE X4418, # 847 P.E. HELP! I desperately need 2 Penn ST GA's at any cost. $$$$ Please call Stacy at x3771 Anyone needs NAVY GA's? I've got three. Call Coop at 1791. I have FOUR NAVY TIX for sale. First good offer takes them. Ask for John at x3459. What a road trip! IIIII  PERSONALS N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 391t S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA 90037.213-741­1338. HELPII need a ride to Pittsburgh on Oct. 15 ASAP following the Miami game. Will share expenses. Mike x4141  WED THURS. ONLY $1. 9 & 11 CAR­ROLL AUD BACK IN MY DAY ON A TRIP TO KEN­TUCKY, A NEW LANGUAGE WAS FORMED HEEBEGEEBE-A CHILL THAT MOVES "UP YOUR BEING" OF UNKNOWN ORIGIN CHUD-SLIMY SEBACEOUS MATTER FOUND ANYWHERE FROM DISHES TO TOENAILS NOT-A GENERAL EXPRESSION OF DISAGREEMENT, OFTEN INSULTING SATAN-THAT GUY WHO WALKS WITH  Need ride to MADISON, WI leaving 1 Qo28 and returning 1000. Will share expenses. Call Kim X4420 CONGRATULATIONS TO ... SPANKY AND LUKE HAPPY ENGAGEMENT! BEST OF LUCK! SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR WED-SAT, 9-2am, Great Funll Remember Friday Lunch, 12-2pm  Most importantly, STIP is 211 Happy birthday, STIPI We love you, yes, you. P.S. STIP IS JANICE MILLER I REGGAE NIGHT IS BACK II FRIDAY CLUB 23 OOHHH, THAT REGGAE MUSIC II Friday at the CLUB 23 ... Lacrosse at Ita Beat Notre Dame vs.  
yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Aala All tlelda. $1100-2000 mo. Slghtaee­lng.Free Into. Write UC, PO Bx 52· INII4, Corona Del Mar,CA 92825.  I need 1 GA for the Rice Game. If you can help me out, call x1259 and ask for Evelyn.  I NEEED 2 PENN ST. GA'a NOWII WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL JASON AT x4141.  YOUNG PEOPLE, GREAT SCAPEGOAT WHEN YOU SCREW UP THANKS TO ALL FOR A GREAT BREAK. -C.J.  MUCHO  Johns Hopkins Friday 6:30 pm at Krause Stadium or Loftus Don't miss the faateat game on two teet at Its faateat!  

Thursday, October 27, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
...
Denver is a team in disarray
~ gJar-iai'a ~~ ~ %atol'an.tc A; 

Elway's return may spark the defending AFC champs 
~ 

Now Hiring full time experienced 
Associated Press 

waitresses able to start at 3 pm and 
DENVER--The Denver
part time banquet waitresses. 
Broncos have placed running back Calvin Thomas on
Apply 2-5 pm 1412 South Bend Ave. 
waivers and are expected to ac­
.______________________.. tivate strong safety Dennis 



Smith this week if Smith's nag­ging hamstring injury is healed. 
Despite the Broncos' poor play in last week's 39-21loss at Pittsburgh, Coach Dan Reeves planned no shakeups in the starting lineup, except for those necessitated by injury, for Monday night's game at In­dianapolis. 
Pro Bowl linebacker Karl Mecklenburg will be sidelined six weeks after re-fracturing his right thumb and undergoing surgery. To replace him, the Broncos will shift strong inside linebacker Rick Dennison to Mecklenburg's spot at weak in­side linebacker, and Bruce Klostermann will move up to fill Dennison's spot. 
Quarterback John Elway, who sat out the loss to Pit­tsburgh, should return to action Monday night. 
"Hopefully, John will be 
Go ahead and gloat. You can rub it in all the way to Chicago with Af&T Long Distance Service. Besides, your best friend Eddie was the one who said your team could never win three straight. 
So give him a call. It costs a lot less than you think to let him know who's headed for the Playoffs. Reach out and touch someone~ 
If youtllike to know more about AT&T products and services, like International Calling and the Al&T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 

ATs.T 

The right choice. 
ready," Reeves said Wednes­day. "We'll practice him today, and by Monday he should be close to 100 percent. Other than accommodations for injuries, I don't foresee any changes in the starting lineup." 
The Broncos created two roster spots when they put Mecklenburg on injured reserve and released Thomas, but Reeves was vague about how, or when, those two spots would be filled. 
Smith, a starter who has been plagued by injury the past few seasons, seemed the likeliest prospect to be activated. 
"We feel like Dennis should be 100 percent, but we won't know for sure until he prac­tices," Reeves said. "We felt like he was ready to go two weeks ago, too, and he had some problems with his leg then." 
Wide receiver Steve Watson, out with a neck injury, is an­other candidate, as are linebackers Steve Bryan and Randy Thornton. 
Reeves seemed in no partic­ular hurry to replace Mecklen­burg with another linebacker. 
"We could go with six lineback­ers for a while," he said. "Marc Munford could come back in two weeks." 
When the Broncos acquired Thomas three weeks ago from the Chicago Bears, the fullback was expected to finally provide Denver with the big back they had been lacking. It didn't work out that way. Thomas' inability on Sunday to make a first down on a fourth-and-one play--when he ran to the wrong hole-­apparently hastened his depar­ture. 
Asked his reasons for cutting Thomas, Reeves said, "We felt like we had to make room for people coming back (from in­jury). We felt it was a luxury to keep six running backs. We felt we could get the job done without him." 
Reeves branded the AFC West "the worst division in the league right now. Just look at the records. Nobody has played well. But nobody is really out of it, either." 
Denver and Seattle lead the division, both with 4-4 records. 
SMC volleyball defeats Bethel and Manchester 
By ELIZABETH VANDER SARL Sports Writer 
In a season plagued by injur­ies, the Saint Mary's Belles have had difficulties playing to their full capacity, but through determination and leadership they recently posted two big victories. 
On Oct. 13 the Belles clinched 
victory over Bethel College in 
a tedious and exhausting four­
game match. Saint Mary's took 
an early lead, winning the first 
game 15-2. The team struggled 
in the second game, losing 9-15, 
but they came back strong win­
ning the final two straight 
games and the match 15-10 and 
15-13. 
Tuesday night at Angela Ath­letic Center the Belles played host to Manchester in a match that stretched to five games. 
SMC started strong with great blocking and spiking by Katy Killilea and Michelle Sibilsky, which allowed for a first game victory of 15-9. For much of the second game there was a tied score, but Manchester held on and rallied back, winning both the second and third games 9-15 and 6-15. 
Saint Mary's showed deter­mination and strong serving in winning the fourth game 15-11 and tying the game score. Senior captain Tami Suth's powerful serving, despite a broken finger, assisted the Belles in gaining a 7-0 lead in the fifth game. 
"Tami Suth really made a difference," said Head Coach Sue Medley. 
Mary Macdiermid displayed superb execution at the net and played a significant role in the Belles fifth game victory 15-9. 
"Lately, we have not played up to our potential, but we have been able to pull out of bad sit­uations," Medley said. 
The Belles are hoping for a crowd and lots of support in their tourney on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 29 and 30 at 5:00 in Angela. 
~-----~-~~-~­
... 
Tommy Lasorda, shown here getting down at a Los Angeles nightclub after the Dodgers' World Series triumph, has further reason to celebrate 


Belles 
continued from page 16 
the college for which he would perform. He chose Notre Dame, under the tutelage of since-departed Gerry Faust. But despite four years in a reserve role, Belles never even considered transferring to an­other school. 

this season. Nonetheless, he 
continues to receive work in practice at both quarterbackand tailback. 
"Right now, we're just gonna work him at those two posi­tions," said Strong. "He'll spend a little more time at the tailback position, but he's also getting ample work at quarter­back. Wherever Coach Holtz feels like Steve can help the 
said Belles. "I decided to come here and so I just decided to stick it out. I'm getting enough (playing) time where I'm hel­ping the team and I think that's all that matters now." 
Strong believes this willing­ness to "stick it out" is one of Belles' greatest attributes. He likens the senior's role on the team to that of a baseball utility player, truly a valuable asset for a Division I football program such as Notre Dame. 
"Steve Belles is a true Notre Dame football player,"asserted the second-year coa­ch, "because he's accepted his role and he's continued to work 
unselfish from the standpoint of wherever we want to play him, he's been willing to play there. He's given of himself to help this football team be a bet­ter team. That's what Notre Dame's all about." 
Considering the rash of injur­ies the Irish backfield has been subjected to this season and the abundance of quarterbacks on the roster, Belles is expected to see more action at halfback 
=RIB M 
SEAFOOD ~IC~ 
HRs.r~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

WANTED! 
The Dome is is hiring for the following positions: 
APPholo 

after being named National League Manager of 
Assistant Sports Editor (2 positions available) 
the Year yesterday. A related story can be 
Assistant Groups Editor 
found at right. 
Assistant Systems Editor and situation, that's where he's 
Assistant Photography Editor 
gonna be." 
Photographers
"There's really no telling
where you're gonna see him at," continued Strong. "I think he'd be a great defensive end, 
Please pick up an application in the Dome office or too, if we put him over there." 
the Office ofStudent Activities (both are on 3rd floor 
For his part, the utility role 
LaFortune).

suits Belles just fine. "I feel like the big utilityman for Notre Dame," said Belles. 
No Experience Necessary (except Photography) 
"Whatever it takes, I'll get it 
"I had a choice to go pretty team in that particular time done out there." 
a:===================~~=;­
much anywhere I 

wanted," •••••llli••••••iiiiiii••••••••• 
r 
and improve. He's also been llll•••••••••••••••••••••l 
Union Stotlon presents: 

Tickets: $6 in Qdvance 

{$7 at the door) 
AVAILABLE AT: October 28, 8 p.m. TRACKS, M · 0 · k 0
us1c • nn s • ancing
CENTURY CENTER, MORRIS CIVIC & • Hors D'oeuvre Buffet UNION STATION • Costume Contests 233-2876 • Comedy by Steve Kimbrough 
ND-SMC Right to Life Presents 2nd Annual Respect Life Mass & Dinner 
Thursday Oct. 27 
5: 15 Mass in Sacred Heart Celebrant: Bishop D' Arcy 
6:30 Dinner in S. Faculty Dining Hall --Speaker Prof. Charles Rice 
8:00 Moot Court Rm. Law School 
Steven Mosher "China's Forced Abortion Policy" 
tickets for dinner $7.50 students information call ND-4832 
Thursday, October 27, 1988 
Dodgers' Lasorda voted best in N L 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK--Tommy Lasorda, who led Los Angeles to the World Series champion­ship and their sixth National League West title in 12 years, was named NL Manager of the Year Wednesday by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Lasorda received 101 points in balloting by a committee of two writers from each NL city. He had 19 first-place votes and was named on 23 of 24 ballots. It was the second time Lasorda was voted manager of the year. He won the award in 1983, its initial year. 
Jim Leyland of Pittsburgh was second with 50 points after leading the Pirates to an 85-75 record and second place in the East behind the New York Mets. 
Davey Johnson, who led the Mets to a league-leading 100-60 record and their second East title in three years, was third with 38 points. 
Jack McKeon, who took over the Padres from Larry Bowa on May 28, was fourth with 27 points. San Diego was 67-48 un­der McKeon and had the second-best record in the league over the final four months of the season. 
Lasorda learned that he had won while flying to Los Angeles after the Dodgers had been honored VVednesday at the White House. 
"This completes my day--one of the greatest days of my life,'' the Dodger manager told Jack Lang, secretary-treasurer of the writers' group. 
NATIONAL FUTURES ASSOCIATIO 
YOUR 
FUTURE 
IN 

FUTURES 
The Compliance Department of National Futures Association is hosting a reception on Thursday, Odober 27. 1988 from 7:00P.M. to 9:00P.M. at the University Club 
NFA. the n~tionwide sel1-regult~tory org8.niz8tion for the futures industry, continually seeks qualified Accounting and Finance graduates for Staff Auditor positions. NFA will be interviewing on c~mpus: November 1 at Notre Dame November 2 at St Mary's 
Learn about a challenging career in af~st-growing ~.nd exciting industry Juniors and Seniors majoring in Accounting or Finance are invited to the reception. Refreshments will be ~ervecl. 
GO IRISH BEAT NA 1/'r'!// 
Thursday, October 27, 1988 
Women's soccer takes two of three 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team improved its record to 13-3-1 over fall break, but there are some that would argue that it should rightfully read 14-3. 
The 1-0 win over St. Benedict's and a 2-0 defeat of Bowling Green pose no difficul­ties, but a touchy 1-1 tie with Saint Mary's leaves Irish Head coach Dennis Grace fuming. 
"It was a horrible call, a cru­cial call to determine the game," he said. 
"It was a free goal, an unjus­tified penalty kick that at best should have been an indirect from outside the box," he said of the controversial foul that led to the tie. 
One thing Grace cannot be upset over is the team defense the Irish have played recently. 
"For all practical purposes, we've shut out our last three opponents," he insists. "And those shutouts are very impor­tant to us because if we go into the game with a shutout atti­tude, we can't lose, and it loosens things up defensively." 
The team will take to the road on Friday, heading for Dayton to play in a four-team tournament with Dayton, Xavier and Wright State. 
"Right now we're not sure of our ranking in the tourna­ment," said Grace. "It's going to be a tremendous challenge." 
The Irish have been prepar­ing for the weekend by working on one of Grace's pet peeves-­poor offensive and defensive transitions, specifically getting the attacking players to move back to effectively block the counter attack. 
"Our transitions were definitely a big problem on Sun­day (against St. Benedict)," said junior K.T. Sullivan. "Coach has had us working on it all week and I think we'll do well this weekend." 
"We have to think in terms of team defense and team of­fense," Grace said. "We think of our defense as 11 bodies. I'm comfortable with how the team is responding." 
The Irish are hoping to see the return of stopper Michelle Richards this weekend, who is out with an ankle injury sus­tained in the Saint Mary's game. 
"She still isn't practicing," said Sullivan. "But we hope to have her back because she is an important factor." 
Because of scheduling prob­lems Grace will not be accom­panying the team to Dayton, heading to Miami with the men's team instead. Assistant coach Neil Schmidt will take over. 
All in all, the Irish are opti­mistic. They have reason to be as they have outscored their op­ponents this season by at least 50-12. 
"I really think we could surprise some people," said Grace. 


page 13 

For 0-7 Rice, the worst has yet to come 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -The Rice Owls, burdened with 13 straight defeats and the nation's longest losing streak, are staring into the face of impending disaster. 
Saturday, they play at 11th ranked Arkansas, and the fol­lowing week, it's No. 2 ranked Notre Dame at South Bend, Ind. 
The Owls haven't won a game since a 38-28 victory over Southwest Texas State in the fourth game last season. Rice hasn't had a winning season since 1963. 
The Owls inherited the longest streak when Columbia ended its 44-game skid Oct. 8 with a 16-13 victory over Princeton. 
"The streak is bad," fullback Lorenzo Cyphers said. "We want to break it as quickly as possible. You try not to think about it. If you think about it all the time it would be a dis­traction." 
Arkansas will be even thoug­her than usual because the Razorbacks are in line for a long-awaited Cotton Bowl berth after a crucial 26-21 vic­tory over Houston last week. Arkansas needs two victories .. in its final three games for that bowl ticket. 
ND women's tennis sweeps MCC 
campus to present career opportunities in Commercial Lending and Financial Analysis 
Monday, October 31 6:00 to 7:30pm Hayes Healy Room 122 
Please see Finance Club for further details. 


"We played well as a whole and I could not single one per­son out," said coach Michele Gelfman. "We won as a team." 
"The tournament was espe­cially difficult because we were forced to switch our lineup at the last minute," Gelfman con­tinued. "I was really proud of how everyone came through." 
The Irish were without their number one singles player, CeCe Cahill, who was ilL In ad­dition, Ann Bradshaw was out with a sprained ankle and Natalie Illig could not compete for personal reasons. Junior captain Alice Lohrer, still sidelined with a back injury, was also missing from the lineup. 
Katie Clark took Cahill's 
place in the top position, fol­
lowed by Tracy Barton, Kristy 
Doran, Kim Pacella, Tyler 
Musleh, and Cathy Bradshaw. 
Gelfman was especially pleased with the performance of the doubles teams of Barton­Clark, Doran-Pacella, and Musleh with Anne Marie Dega. 
"The doubles were difficult because the girls had to play with new partners, people they had never played with before," Gelfman said. 
"Our number five doubles team (Musleh and Dega) had to move up and play the num­ber three teams from all the other schools. They played ex­ceptionally well," Gelfman added. 
The Irish travel to Houston Nov. 4-6 to compete in the Rice Tennis Classic where they will face teams ranked among the top twenty in the nation. 
"The caliber of competition will be much higher," remarked Gelfman. "Hope­fully the girls will be fully recovered in time." 
.. 

----------~-----­
The Observer Thursday, October 27, 1988
page 14 

ND lacrosse to face powerful Johns Hopkins 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
An article in the Literary Digest describes lacrosse as "a game for those who enjoy speed, thrills, power, keen competition, solid impact, courage and precision, en­durance and fair play." 
And the team that in many people's minds best ex­emplifies these qualities, Johns Hopkins University, will take on Notre Dame here Friday night in what is easily the big­gest game in Irish lacrosse his­tory. 
Hopkins has turned their 
mastering of the fundamentals 
into 42 national titles (three of 
the last five) and countless All­
Americans. 
No class has ever graduated 
from Hopkins without a na­
tional title, thus laying the foundation for a tradition that is seemingly unmatched in col­legiate sports. 

"They (Hopkins) have a little bit of the mysticism that Notre Dame does in football. In fact, many even refer to them as the Notre Dame of college lacrosse," said Irish first year coach Kevin Corrigan. 
While Johns Hopkins has perennially participated in the NCAA Final Four, Notre Dame has only been a varsity sport for nine years and has come close the last two years to cap­turing the NCAA Tournament's Western bid. 
Although the fall season for lacrosse is only for exhibition, Corrigan says the Irish should be ready to play to the capacity necessary against such an op­ponent as Hopkins. 
"We are committed to playing this game to show that this is the direction we want to go," he said. "This is a great opportunity for our kids and I expect they'll have great inten­sity. I worry about our execu­tion but not our intensity." 
Hopkins' visit takes on even further significance when ap­plied to the Midwest and to fu­ture Irish recruiting. After playing the Irish, the Bluejays will travel to East Lansing for a game with Michigan State. The Spartans are expected to attend the game in South Bend as are several high school groups from the Chicago area. 
"It's great for Hopkins to come out. They're doing this to help the lacrosse in the Mid­west and it's going to be a great help to us," Corrigan said. "The game will help legitimize our program and we will use it as a selling point to high school kids by showing them we can 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team faces a stiff test previews what could be the biggest game In 
do something like this." 
Rich O'Leary, who coached the Irish for 18 years before recently leaving to concentrate on his position at non-varsity athletics, said the Johns Hop­kins game is a tribute to all those who have participated in the program during its 25 years. 
"This game puts Notre Dame in a different perspective na­tionally and that is a credit to all those who participated in Notre Dame lacrosse at all levels. This one game isn't going to make Notre Dame's future, but you have to be con­fident with this kind of effort." 
Senior tri-captain John Olmstead said that the team is well aware of the game's sig­nificance. He said that a new coach and a game of this mag­nitude combine to suggest the dawning of a "new era" in Irish lacrosse. 
"Everyone associated with lacrosse knows what Johns Hopkins is all about and it will just be an incredible experi­ence to be on the same field as them," Olmstead said. "But at the same time we have hope. We've worked very hard this fall and overall it's not whether we win or lose but how this propels us into the spring.'' 

Ill ALUMNI -====~
SENIOR a 

i!:CLUB 
TONIGHT: 
Sr. Class Formal Fundraiser w/ "Catholics In Bad Standing" 
FRIDAY: LUNCH 
NOON-2:00 
Also Friday its help United Way Night 
~ffiq]Jg []]ffi!Hb(]J~ [pLDJ]qp)J 
-coolest costume contest 
this weekend against the "Notre Dame of Irish lacrosse history above. lacrosse", Johns Hopkins. Pete LaFleur 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

: IllALUMNI : 
i!CLUB i 
f• SENIORS! $ * 

* * 

Ann~nb~wg
: Want Senior Formal to be an : 

* * 
: Awesome Event? : * *
• Then Come by the CLUB on Thurs. : :* N'19ht to see the *•
• * 
:"CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING" : 
• * 
• * 
: and partake in the 1st Annual : : Senior-Formal $ * *
:SPORTS SPECTACULAR RAFFLE: : * Extravaganza!! : * * * 
: Buy raffle tickets at the dining halls :$ on Tues. and Wed. Nights and at : 
SOT AVENTO 
ALATIN AMERICAN FOLK BAND 
~lL!J[N][Q)&W ©©uo~@ ~o[MJ. 
Aud~tow~um 
$4.00 at La Fortune Info. desk 
Work~hop to be he~d on Mon, Oct, 31 
~0:30 A.M. -~2:30 P.M. Sign up at S.U.B. office anytime 
! 


: your CLUB on Wed & Thurs Nights. : : Drawing held on Thurs. at 1:00 a.m. $ 
* * 



: Also Remember, as always, : 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
$ Thurs. is CLUB NIGHT $ .. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

---~·~---------------------·-~ 
The Observer page 15 
-
CAMPUS 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute and West European Studies Lecture "Albert Hirschman and the Origins of Possibilism," by Pro­fessor Luca Meldolesci, University of Naples, Italy, 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4 p.m. Radiation Lab Seminar "Electrochemistry of Tran­sient Free Radicals," by Danial Wayner, National Research Council, Canada. 
4 p.m. Peace Studies Lecture "Non-Violence in Action," by Mubarak Awad, Palestinian Center for Study of Non­Violence, 212 Law School. 
4:30 p.m. Critical and Interpretive Studies Lecture "Myth, Allegory, and Femininity," by Drucilla Cornell, University of Pennsylvania, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Minority Affairs Lecture "The African Presence in Early America," by Ivan Van Sertima, Rutgers University, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 
7:30 p.m. International Peace Studies Discussion with Mubarak Awad, Muhammad Hallaj, Henry Siegman, and Professor Yousef Olmert, Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 
7:30p.m. Hiler-Ward Debate, JACC Monogram Room. 
8 p.m. Philosophy Lecture "On the Ordering of Things: Heidegger and Foucault on the Dangers of Modernity," by Professor Hubert Dreyfus, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chili Dogs BBQ Pork Loin Beef Stew Fettucini Alfredo 

COMICS 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet Beef Stir Fry Rice & Spinach Bake Deli Bar 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

56 Monk's title 
57 Hulk Hogan victory 

58 Skeptic 64 Y1ppie Hoffman 
65 Ov1d 66 African shrub 
sa Defensive ditches 69 Having wings 70 Car part 
71 Winter forecast 72 Zeus's spouse 
73 Being, to Aquinas 
DOWN 
1 V1per 2 Spy name 3 Molecule 
element 

.... 
4 Afncan secessionist state. 1967-70 

ACROSS 
1 Gregory Peck role 1956 5 Siffle 9 Offends 14 Egyptian queen of the gods 15 Stein-Piimpton book 16 Small bay 17 Malay craft 18 Hitchcock's "--Window" 19 Emporium 20 Skeptic's comment 
23 --faineant (do-noth1ng k1ng) 
24 Roof adornment 
25 We1ghty weight 26 Skeptic's 
seasoning? 32 Bravo or Grande 33 Comic Jay 34 High flier 38 Man is one 40 Swordfish's 
sword 43 Soul-seller Donan 44 Cartographer's 
collection 46 Shade 48 Mamie's mate 49 "Tell it--" 
(skeptic's comment) 53 B1ll's possible future 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+=+-7+::-l 
..:..:.L.=.L:..:.J..::.J 

5 Juliet and 

Cordelia 6 Manuscnpt word 7 "Owa tagu --" 
a Sequence 
9 This may be gu1ded 
10 Divis1on word 
11 Mock 

12 Iron Comb. form 
13 Beer mug 
21 Muddy the 
waters 22 Menton is one 
26 A Met score 27 Main point 28 Aeronautics 
maneuver 29 J Denver's 
"-World" 30 Special talent 31 Traffic ticket 35 Smile broadly 36 Actress Veronica 37 The night's 
thousand 

Berke Breathed The Far Side 
39lngest 41 Flange 42 Poet's fepet1t1on 
for effect 45 Most compass1onate 47 Peter, Paul and 
Mary. e.g 50 Cycle beginnmg 51 Mrs. Van Buren 52 Pokey person 53 Tea Party 1nc1ter 
54 Computer-lan­guage acronym 
55 Old Roman trumpets 
59 Fall for a trick 
so Strong w1nd 
61 Ivan or Peter 
62 "Woe 1s mel" 
63 "My Three-" (TVold1e) 
67 Supplement 
·:.·~_?"out" 
Gary Larson 
Unt~nal Pr~ Syndlcae.

!HIIK&IIII/15/Il'tJf!IK~
~tt/T!Tf' 

/1 W15H/ I IV/5/1... I lv'/5/1... f/H.. I W/511
1!11Nf;f~J4Y. ~ 

RJR 1/Ma?ICIIN !H6N 7lJ ~IICT!IW!J t.tKe tPt(J15
11/(f)(/1'/17 ~hflfN 111'117 7HE 6"f/N N(!T11J f~. 
-'~6oT!T~ 
'\ 

~)~-. : / 




• 
SMC soccer team blanks IUSB 3-0 

Sports
page 16 Thursday, October 27, 1988 
Trlsh Troester (13) and the Saint Mary's soccer yesterday to complete their home schedule. team shut out crosstown rival IUSB 3-0 Jane Shea has details of the win at right. 
Not your average backup Q B 
Steve Belles moonlights at tailback and special teams 
Tony Brooks on a 34-yard Michigan," revealed Belles.
By FRANK PASTOR 

scoring pass against Purdue, "The whole defense converged 
Sports Writer 

and last week aired out a 50-on it. I was just lucky enough He is Notre Dame's "Mr. yard halfback option pass to have the runner by the legs Versatility." which Ricky Watters carried and get all the publicity for it. His name is Steve Belles, but into the endzone against Air We saw it coming all the way." his teammates call him "the Force. He has also carried the The 6-4, 211-pound senior Jim Jensen of Notre Dame", re­ball eight times for 45 yards. from Phoenix, Ariz. was con­ferring to the Miami Dolphins' "He seems to have excellent sidered a prize recruit coming do-it-all, utility specialist. vision and running skills," said out of Saint Mary's High School There's little Belles doesn't Strong. "We've noticed that at in 1985. Belles was a two-sport do for the Irish football team. the quarterback position star at Saint Mary's, lettering In addition to his reserve role throughout the practice ses­in both football and basketball. behind Tony Rice and Kent sions. We felt at this stage that He was named to the Graham at quarterback, Belles we needed another tailback in AdidaS'Scholastic Coach prep can be found on the special there." All-America squad and earned teams as well as in late-game Belles has made significant honorable mention on the Na­stints at the halfback position. contributions on the special tional High School Athletic 
"Steve has a lot of versatility teams as well, compiling three Coaches Association team. and he's a great competitor," tackles, including one unassis­In addition, he was chosen said Irish backfield coach Jim ted. He was responsible for a Arizona Class AAA player of Strong. "Any time you have key fourth-down stop on a fake the year by the Arizona somebody who's a great com­punt attempt with 8:22 remain­Republic after leading Saint petitor, you find a place to put ing in the third quarter of the Mary's to the state champion­him on the football field." Miami game. ship in 1984. 
Belles has completed two of "We'd been practicing These credentials afforded four passes for a total of 84 against that (the fake punt) all Belles the luxury of choosing yards and two touchdowns this week because they'd shown it season. He hooked up with a couple weeks earlier against see BELLES, page 12 
As Notre Dame continues to strive for the national championship, the kicking game has become a prime target for scrutiny and criticism by watchers of the Irish football team. 
"We have a very good kicking ga:me," Head Co­ach Lou Holtz said in defense of his team. "Our kicking hasn't been good, but our kicking game has impressed me." 
Fullback Anthony Johnson, who first saw action on kickoffs against Air Force last Saturday, may have more opportunities Saturday against Navy in Baltimore, but, contrary to rumors that say other­wise, Holtz says he will still go with the combination of Reggie Ho and Billy Hackett that has gotten the Irish through the first seven games of the season. 
"I think it's a little premature to be making any radical changes on our team," Holtz said. "We might have Anthony Johnson trying a point after, a short field goal, maybe some kickoffs, but we're still going to see Reggie Ho and Billy Hackett kick­ing." 
Ho has handled the PATs and short field goals for the Irish, hitting 25 of 27 points after and eight of 10 field goals to lead the team in scoring with 49 points. Hackett was successful on his one point after try and is one for two on field goals. 

Johnson also practiced punting during Wednes­day's practice, but Jim Sexton still holds down the job for Notre Dame. 
"Jim Sexton has been doing a nice job," Holtz said. "He's averaging about 40 yards a punt, and we haven't had one blocked this season, so I can't really complain there. 
"We're third in the nation in punt returns, I think we're seventh in kickoff returns, no blocked punts, no really long runbacks," Holtz continued. "So you can't say we're having too much trouble with the kicking game. Maybe the kickers, but not the kick­ing game." 
Although Holtz says his prime concern is Navy, and everyone is talking about the bowl games, the schedulers are looking ahead to the 1989 Kickoff 
By JANE SHEA SMC Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's soccer completed their home season play· by defeating Indiana Uni­versity at South Bend Wednes­day by a score of 3-0, bringing their record to 8-6. 
Greer Gilliland scored the first goal near the end of the first half. The Belles controlled most of the game and kept the ball near their opponents' goal. 
"Our team played intel­ligently,"said Head Coach Tom Van Meter. "Many players played in positions dif­ferent from their usual ones." 
Senior Anne Szweda scored the second goal early in the half. The intensity lessened during the second half and as it continued, Saint Mary's took control of the game. 
Anne Hartzel scored the final goal halfway throughout the second half. The Belles' play demonstrated their ability to connect with one another. 
"Indiana has improved since last year," said Van Meter, "Our quality of play has im­proved during the two years I've been here." 
Coming off a win should help the Belles in their games this weekend against the College of Wooster and Oberlin College. Both are NCAA Division III teams. 
"This should be a good mea­suring point for us to play against Division III schools," said Van Meter. 
The Belles' final games will be away on Saturday and Sun­day. 

Steve Belles has been a key figure on the Irish special teams this year and Is two for four passing with two touchdowns. Frank Pastor features Notre Dame's utllltyman at left. 
No radical changes •tn Irish kicking game ... yet 
but I still didn't think we earned the chance. 
Theresa "This year, I think we've earned the chance, but 
it's not my decision to make; it's an administrative
Kelly 

decision." Texas A&M, which defeated the Irish in the Cotton Football Notebook Bowl, played Nebraska in the 1988 Kickoff Classic. 
Classic to be played next August. One rumored matchup pits the Irish against UCLA, currently the top-ranked team in the country. 
"This comes up every year," Holtz said. "My first year here, we weren't good enough, we didn't earn the opportunity to play the game. Last year, we were concerned with playing in a bowl game, 
Former defensive lineman Tom Gorman has made the switch to offense to bolster the Irish of­fensive line. Gorman joins Irish tri-captain Andy Heck as former tight ends now playing on the line. 
"Gorman's doing very well after just a very short time," Holtz said. "We needed some help and he's doing a job. He's a natural offensive player. I'm amazed at how far he's come in just two weeks, he played against Air Force, and you'll see him playing more." 



