
r--------------------------------------------­
ETC.:Chicago's Second City 
/VIEWPOINT: Concert for Cystic Fibrosis 



VOL. XXI, NO. 123 FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Mock convention nominates Gore VP 
Three Saint Mary's College students relax in front of LeMans Hall as the sun casts its golden rays on the building. Their minds are turning to the summer ahead (and the exams which come first!). 
OJ records donations to tune of $234,000 
By CHRIS JULKA Senior Staff Reporter 
Amid political intrigues that would make Tip O'Neill blush, the Mock National Convention ended Thursday night with both a whimper and a bang. 
With a turnout lower than ex­pected, the convention ended on an anticlimatic note, as the contest for Democratic vice presidential nominee bogged down into a stalemate in three separate ballots. 
Students reactions highlight task forum 
By JANET HEROLD News Staff 
Students presented mixed reactions to the University task forces' recommendations on alcohol and residentiality at a forum held Thursday in Lewis Hall. 
In response to the residen­tiality task force's recommen­dations for co-educational dorms, one Lewis resident stated that she thought the creation of a co-educational dorm "would be really great." Other students expressed con­cerns that a co-ed dorm would ruin the overall character of the University. 
Student response to the recommendations regarding elimination of dorm-purchased alcohol at SYRs was negative. The students generally agreed that attendance would decline at SYRs if dorms stopped pro­viding alcohol. 
Tiffany Israel, a freshman 
see FORUM, page 6 
After meeting in a ten­minute recess, convention leaders decided to suspend the majority-vote requirement. This allowed Albert Gore to win the Notre Dame vice presiden­tial nomination with a plurality of the 660 convention votes. 
Gore defeated Jesse Jackson in the fourth ballot, 300-280. The Tennessee senator trailed the civil rights leader, 185-215, in the first ballot, but overtook him in the second with a tally of 299 and stayed on top for the rest of the evening. 
At first it looked like an upset was in the making. Dark horse candidate Vince Willis, conven­tion chairman and Notre Dame senior, snatched two votes in the first ballot. Willis' hopes were dashed, however, when a motion passed to disqualify him because he was not 35 years old, according to Brigid Welch, executive assistant of the mock convention. 
Gore's coup de grace, however, did not come un­eventfully. The last night of the convention literally went out with a bang, as two men wearing camouflage plants and head bands stormed the convention stage with submac­hine squirt guns. 
The mock terrorists quickly mowed down the convention leaders on the stage and seized Denise Weis and Michele Burkart as hostages. 
Mock secret service agents drove the attackers away with plastic Uzi's and cap guns, but. only after the mock terrorists sprayed several salvos into the audience of delegates. The two 
By SANDY CERIMELE Saint Mary's Editor 
The speaker for Saint Mary's 141st annual commencement ceremony was announced today by the Office of Public Information. 
Syndicated columnist Georgie Anne Geyer, who received an honorary degree from Saint Mary's in 1986, will address 437 seniors at the May 14th ceremony in the LeMans Hall Court. 
Geyer, whose newspaper column is featured throughout the U.S. and Latin America, received an honorary doctor of letters degree from Saint Mary's in 1986. 
One of the world's foremost journalists, Geyer's column appears in newspapers throughout the United States and Latin America. She has worked as a reporter in Chicago and as a foreign cor­respondent. 
Geyer has reported from locations throughout Central and South America, the Middle East and Southeast Asia. Her interview subjects have in­cluded Fidel Castro, the Ayatollah Khomeini and Muammar Khadafy. 
The author of six books, Geyer's contemporary work continues her fascination with social and political factors. She is a regular panelist on PBS­TV's "Washington Week in Review" and a contributing editor to magazines such as The Saturday Review, The At­lantic Monthly and The New 
Republic. 
This year's recipient of an honorary doctor of humanities degree from the College is Laura Bornholdt, special assis­tant to the president and direc­tor of the office of university­school relations at the University of Chicago. 
Bornholdt has spent more than 40 years in higher educa­tion, in the classroom, as an ad­ministrator and as a member of a variety of foundations and 
see SPEAKER, page 4 
attackers were dragged off the stage where they were promptly executed, according to mock secret service agent Greg Pax. 
"We saw the disturbance and we eliminated it," Pax said. 
The two gunmen identified themselves as Tom Pichette and Brian O'Fallon, members of the Notre Dame Jihad. 
"Our demands are more beer and more women --in that or­der," O'Fallon said. 
see GORE, page 4 
The Observer I Heleni Korwek 

Associated Press 
DALLAS--With $234,000 already in hand, a "flabber­gasted" radio station staff on Thursday continued counting loot that poured in after a disc jockey asked lis­teners to send $20 checks without saying what he would do with the money. 
"We never promised anybody anything," said Ron Chapman, a KVIL-FM disc jockey. "That's the joy of this. We just said send the money. We've got a back room full of people (counting money). 
"We're absolutely stunned. We're flabber­asted." 

SMC names Geyer '88 commencement speaker
Chapman said he asked his audience to send him money on March 31 as an ex­periment. 
After his first request, 4,000 checks for $20 each ar­rived in the mail the next day. On the following Mon­day, an additional 5,000 checks arrived, a flood so heavy that Chapman went on the air to say, "OK, folks: that's it. Don't send any more checks after today." 
The station hasn't decided yet what to do. Chapman said it initially planned to return the checks, possibly with $2 interest and a T­shirt, but now is thinking about using it for a special event. 
~------------­
page 2 The Observer Friday, April 15, 1988 

In Brief 

A "terrorist" attack struck the Notre Dame Mock Convention last night in a pre-approved attack, anonymous sources told The Observer. The attack took place at ap­proximate 8:30p.m. The attack was due to take place at 9 p.m. However, due to dwindling attendance a~ the event, the attack was move up one-half hour, said witnesses at the scene. According to "Secret Service" agents, th~ "ter­rorists" demanded "more beer and more women, m that order." Unconfirmed reports said that at least one "ter­rorist" was "shot." At press time, the "terrorists' " demands were being met. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Room picks for Siegfried a!ld Knott Halls wil~ be held April 20 at 6:30p.m. in the Office of Student Residences. A 20 dollar hall tax is required to pick a room. -The Observer 
Brown Bag Seminars continue with "Journalism 
during the Transition to Democracy in Bra~il" by Carlos 
Eduardo Lins da Silva of the Woodrow Wilson Interna­
tional Center for Scholars. The event will take place today 
at noon in Room 105 Law School. -The Observer 
The Underground, GraceHall'sCoffee,~hop!presents the music of "The Boathouse Blues Band tomght from 
8:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. in the basement of Grace Hall. ­
The Observer 

An international conference titled "Gospel Traditions in the Second Century: Origins, Rescensions, Texts and Transmissions" will be convened this weekend, April 15 through April 17, ~t the C~nter for Co!ltinuing Education. Eight scholars of mternahonal reputation from England, the Netherlands, Belgium, Gerl?any, Can~da, and the U.S. will address questions concernmg the ear-best form of the Christian gospels. For more information call 239-6691. -The Observer 
MASG, the Michiana AIDS Support Group, will sponsor an inter-faith prayer service for persons concern~d about AIDS on Saturday evening at 7:30p.m. at Regma Hall Cha~l at Saint Mary's College. Th.e servic~, entitl.ed "Blessings: A Service of Prayer," will b~ ~n mter-faith sharing of strength and concern for the VIctims of AIDS, their families, friends, and caregivers. -The Observer 
A concert will be given by the Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra on Sunday at 4 p.m. in Washington Hall. For more information contact Eric Kuehner in the music de­partment at 239-6201. -The Observer 
A Biological Sciences Seminar ~?tit~ed "Sp.inal Cord Regeneration in Lower Vertebrates will be given by Dr. Sidney Simpson of the University of Illinois-Chicago on Tuesday at 12:15 p.m. in the Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. -The Observer 
Summer Service Projects are still available. A $1200 scholarship will be given in return for eight weeks of service to the pool/heedy in cities across the U.S. A few choice positions remain. For more information stop into the Center for Social Concerns or call 239-7867. -The Ob­server 
"The Miracle of Life" will be shown by Jus Vitae at 12: 10 p.m. in Room 101 Law School. The movie highlights the early stages of human development. -The Observer 
Karen Lee, a senior music education major at Saint Mary's, will present a French foreign recital on Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Moreau Hall Little Theat~e. For more information, contact the Department of Music at 284-4632. 
-The Observer 

''Beyond the Reagan Revolution: Reading National Prionties" is the title of a lecture given by John L. Palmer of the Urban Institute on Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 122 Hayes-Healy Center. -The Observer 

Deaign Editor ................... Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint La~out .. . Annette Rowland Deaign A.,iatant ........ Sean Buckley Etc. Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy Typeaettera ...................... John Mullaney Etc. Layout... .. · Moira Fox ........................................... Paul Jackson Typiat ................................. Will Zamer Newa Editor ....................... Regis Coccia ND Day Editor... ... Ja~t Herod Copy Editor ................... Matt Gallagher SMC Day Editor ..................... LIZ Ryan Sport• Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Photographer .................. Heleni Korwek Viewpoint CopJI Editor ..... Patrick Zande 
ne <MIIener (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq eum and vacation periods. ne OlllerYer is publishf:d ~Y the students of the University or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2$ per semester) by writina ne <MIIener, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Iodiana 46556. . .... ne 0t11ener is a member or ne Allodlllell rr-. All reproduCtion n.,.ts are raerved. 
The South Shore: A rail trip to Hell 
The South Shore Line. Those of us who know 
it love it and those who don't are, to say the 
least, deprived. Who could not but love the 
speed, comfort, excitement, atmosphere, 
safety, and scenery the South Shore offers? 
When I first arrived in South Bend, I planned on visiting Chicago for the first time. From the myriad of transportation possibilities, I chose to take the train --not just any train, though -­1 chose the South Shore. 
When I arrived at the station in South Bend 
I became suspicious, dare I say frightened, of 
the journey I was about to embark upon. I ex­
pected a voyage on a sleek, multi-car, ~fficie~t, 
dream-like train, but instead my frrst tnp 
turned into a surrealistic nightmare. 
After I boarded, I was told by a fellow sufferer that the South Shore used to be affectionately called the 'Vomit Comet' by Notre Dame stu­dents of yesteryear. 
I hear, however, that the current version of the South Shore is a vast improvement over the one of eariler years and as a result this appel­lation is no longer applicable. I beg to differ. 
As we pulled out of South Bend, I saw that Midwestern metropolis fade into the horizon. Because I chose one of those seats that face 
to see what was up ahead. 


What did I see? NOTHING. There was some­way of releaving the boredom he must have thing very existentialist about it. Conscious~ess been a veteran rider. and nothingness experienced at the same hme. Eventually I arrived in Chicago. I was Perhaps Sartre rode the South Shore. greated by some friends who inquired about the 
quality of my trip. I recounted for them my 
When I had finished reading the train safety memories from the odyessy. One remarked, posters, a strange old character holding a "The Midwest isn't that boring. There must notepad sat down next to me. Interested, I have been something to look at." peered over and read the writing on the pad. Well yes, there was. Twice I looked out the "April is the cruelest month ..." was all I could window and discerned concrete forms. The first make out. "What are you writing about?" I was in Michigan City, Indiana, the town where asked him. He only replied that he was writing the train rolls down Main Street. It's quite in­a poem called "The Wasteland" and the South teresting: cars stop, kids wave, dogs chase (and Shore provided his inspiration. Whatever. lose limbs) and, most importantly, the police 
make sure the train obeys the 15 mph speed 
Somehow moved by this poor old man's need limit. to justify the hellish trip in art, I decided to The second time something caught my eyewrite a story of my own. I chose to update the was as the train chugged through Gary, In­
classic myth of the Charon and the River Styx. diana. My senses were filled with the beautiful In my version, Hades had updated to a new sights, sounds, and aroma of that heavenly city. transportation system and now, instead of a As I stared out the window, I was mesmerized 
boat, you cross the River Styx in a South Shore by the architectural mastery of Gary's smokes­railroad car (Charon was the conductor). It tacks. seemed too real to be a myth so I ended up My friends had obviously never taken the 
throwing it away. South Shore, and I warned them to avoid it at all costs. I, however, still had to make a return While I was contemplating what to do next, trip, so I decided to take some reading material I overheard a somewhat perverted man behind that would keep me busy. I chose "The Brothers me describing his method for dealing with the Karamazov" and "War and Peace." I debated boredom. Apparently he rigs the sliding bath­bringing along some others but decided tha1 room door so it will not latch, and then he sits after I finished these two I would still have time 
near by and takes snapshots of peoples' faces left over to begin my doctoral dissertation. as the door slides open. With such a creative All aboard. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 
thrqugh Observer advertising. fqr details. 
Crank tunes for Cash!!! 
Are you interested? 
Theodore's D.J. applications for the '88-'89 school year are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor LaFortune. They must be turned in by April 20. 
------------------_..---...--------------------------~------------------­
Friday, April 15, 1988 The Observer page 3 


SMC juniors told of senior comps 
By KATHLEEN CROOKS Charles Peltier put it, "Anyth­
News Staff ing that would enable a student 
to know what is coming up is 
The problem of Saint Mary's an excellent idea." comprehensive exams chang-Comprehensive exams, re­ing often and varying for each quired of all graduating seniors department has a new solution at Saint Mary's, have long been --increased student awareness of a source of confusion for stu-

the exams. 
To increase awareness, the Student Academic Council is sending information about the specific departmental compre­hensive exams to all juniors who have declared a major. 
The council is distributing forms containing information on when comprehensive exams will be administered, what preparation will be necessary and whether students will be required to attend senior sem­inar classes. 
"It is our goal to make stu­dents more aware of com­prehensives and why they are needed," said Julie Parrish, student body president and former vice president of aca­demic affairs. 
Many people at Saint Mary's feel this form is a step in the right direction. As mathema­tics Assistant Professor dents, Parrish said. 
Each senior must complete a long-term research project or take an exam that tests the knowledge gained over four years of study. The type of exam differs for each depart­ment. 
But comprehensive exams are changing constantly as each department tries to better them, said Parrish. 
The mathematics depart­mentis constantly trying to im­prove the math comprehen­sive, Peltier said, adding that a description of the exam ap­pears in the Saint Mary's Col­lege bulletin. "There has al­ways been a problem with students not being aware of what their comprehensive en­tails," he said. "This is the rea­son we publish the descrip­tion." 

1 
AP Photo

Hijacked Jet in Algiers 
The hijacked Kuwait Airlines jet is parked on the negotiations continue for the release of the hostages tarmac of the Algiers airport Wednesday where .held aboard. 
Poet Lebertov speaks at Saint Mary's 

By ANGELA MCDONALD 
News Staff 
Poet Denise Levertov, fa­mous for more than 20 years for her moving verse, spoke Thursday night at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium. 
Levertov read many diverse poems fr()m h_er new_~()llection 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL 
3300. us 20 t2 mi. east 01 airport 
SPECIAL SPRING DAILY RATES 

of poems and rhythmical com­positions, "Breathing the Water." 
One of her readings, "During a Son's Dangerous Illness," is a poem about her inner feelings on how she coped with her son's severe boyhood illness. 
Other readings include "Carapace," a poem about El Salvador and "Making Peace," a story concerning 
w~vertov also read several poems to the audience that have not yet been published. 
..__li211ii9ili-2ii31i4-..,;41ii06iiii3r,;;;:~T~h;e;y~include: "The Blind 
Man's House at the Edge of a Cliff"; "On the Mystery of the Incarnation"; "A Stone from Iona" and "The Life of Art," which Levertov said was in­spired by her passion for art. 
Levertov said most of her poems deal with incidents that happened in her life and the ef­fect that they had on her. 
One of her most outstanding poems, "The Inheritance," was written about her mother. "My mother's memories be­came so much a part of my life, that I felt as though they were my memories too," she said. 


Marine claims lack proof, says U.S. 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama-­The U.S. military said Thursday it found no evidence backing Marine claims of uni­formed intruders at a fuel depot, but it stood by the story in the face of relentless Panamanian ridicule. 
Bill Ormsby, a civilian spokesman for the U.S. south­ern Command, said Marines scoured the rugged jungle where the shooting incidents, which left one Marine sentry dead, reportedly occurred Monday and Tuesday night. 
For the second straight day, state-run news media and Panama's Defense Forces heaped scorn on the American story. 
Ormsby said it would take at least another day for the mili­tary to complete its inspection of the 807-acre Arraijan Tank Farm, where 36 
Asked if the Southern Com­mand was still sticking to its accounts in the absence of con­crete evidence, Ormsby replied: 'yes, sir, we are." 
The next night, the Southern Command said, about 100 Marines and 40 to 50 intruders "wearing dark uniforms" en­gaged in a two-hour firefight. 


The Observer I Heleni Korwek  
Ted Woodward, representing the Kansas delegation  for candidate AI Gore during the balloting for Vice  
to the Mock Conventin, casts Kansas's seven vote  President Thursday. Story on page one.  



Gore 
continued from page 1 
Pichette stated they were acting on orders from a group called "Citizens for a More In­teresting Election." 
Mter the disturbance was quelled, convention leaders rose from the dead to conclude the ballot which gave Gore vic­tory. 
"We did it because of the small states and the Southern coalition," declared Mary 
-LaSata, mock leader of the Gore campaign, to a crowd shouting "Gore! Gore!" Gore won the nomination despite the defection of the "Graceland Coalition" to the Jackson camp, which gave the minister the votes of several highly populated states, accor­ding to LaSata. 
John Farley, mock leader of the Jackson campaign, criticized the decision to elim­inate the majority-vote re­quirement. "We shouldn't change the rules in the midstream." 
Mike Faehner, mock chair­man of the rules committee, denied the act constituted a rules change. "We made an ex­ecutive committee decision," he said, "not a rules change." 
Farley also had some harsh words for Jackson supporters. "Some of the overzealous sup­porters of Jackson started to backstab, to play dirty pool. I almost dropped out on the fourth ballot," he said. 
Some Jackson supporters spread rumors that Gore sup­porters were dismissing Jack­son on a rascist basis, accor­ding to one delegate who declined to identify herself. They spread rumors that Gore supporters believed Jackson was unacceptable because he would prove to be a political "albatross around the neck of Dukakis," she said. 
Mike Jaeger, a former Simon supporter who switched his votes to Jackson, openly ex­pressed this sentiment, saying a Dukakis-J ackson ticket would be "political suicide" because of the issue of race. 
Still Farley said, "the best man won." 
He added that the Graceland Coalition failed because it simply failed to attend the con­vention in "full strength." 
Beth Debauche, delegates chairman, said the low turnout was "disheartening." 
She recalled that the 1984 mock convention saw much larger crowds. "It would have been so much better had the people who signed up been more dedicated," she said. 
Debauche attributed the poor attendance to unfortunate scheduling. "Last time it was held earlier in the school year,'' she said, "and it took place Wednesday through Saturday when people had more free time." 
The approach of the New York primary was also key, she said. "Because of the New York primaries, many big names didn't show," she ex­plained, referring in particular to Michael Dukakis' daughter Andrea, who had been ex­pected to appear. 
Dukakis had been unable to attend because of a campaign engagement in New York, said Mark Bettencourt, mock leader of the Dukakis cam­paign. "New York is a key pri­mary," he said, "and they thought it would be in the best interest of the campaign if she went there." 

GOING GLOBAL 
Peace Corps I Campus Compact Overseas Undergraduate lntemships Short-term Service Experience Gain Firsthand Exposure to a Developing Nation Obtain Significant Project Experience Help Peace Corps Volunteers Help the People of the Host Country Educate Others About the Third World 
One Notre Dame sophomore or junior will be nominated for a one semesTer or summer Internship. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. Institute for International Peace Studies. 101 O'Shaughnessy 
Application deadline: April 27 
Friday, April 15, 1988 

Car bomb in Italy kills 

U.S. Navy serviceman 
Associated Press Capadanno was treated and returned to his ship. NAPLES, Italy--A car bomb Italian media said the bomb blew up in front of a club for exploded during a reception at 
U.S. 
military personnel in the club for the commander of Naples on Thursday, killing a the USS Paul, a torpedo boat 

U.S. 
Navy enlisted woman and destroyer docked in Naples. A four Italians and wounding at U.S. consulate official could not least 17, officials said. confirm the report. 


There was no immediate Passers-by screamed and claim of responsibility for the ran when the explosion oc­blast that happened shortly curred outside the club, which after 8 p.m. (2 p.m. EDT) at is in one of Naples' busiest the USO club. areas. 
A pentagon spokeswoman "It was a huge boom and we said the American woman was were all knocked to the ground. stationed at Naval Communi-When we got up, all we could cations Area Master Station in see was flames everywhere," Naples. Lt. Janet Mescus, the an unidentified Italian woman spokeswoman, said the wo-told the state-run RAI televi­man's identity was being with-sion network from her hospital held pending notification of bed. next of kin. A spokesman for Pellegrini 
Italian media quoted offi-Hospital said 14 of the cials as saying four Italians wounded, including four were also killed. One of the Americans and eight Italians, bodies at the club's entrance were taken to a hospital. was draped in a U.S. flag. Ital-The spokesman, who spoke ian hospital officials said at on condition he was not identi­least four Americans were fied, said the four Americans among the injured. later were sent to a U.S. mili-
Lt. David Morris, a Navy tary hospital. He said he had spokesman in Naples, said an no details on the extent of the undetermined number of crew-injuries. men from the frigates USS RAI said one of the wounded, Capodanno and USS Paul were a 27-year-old Italian woman, injured, but that no sailor from was reported in grave condi­either ship was killed. He said tion. he did not know if U.S. military A USO club in Barcelona, personnel had been killed. Spain, was attacked last Dec. 
Morris said two sailors from 6 by an attacker with hand the Capodanno and one from grenades who shouted "Long the Paul were admitted to the live Lebanon." The blasts 
U.S. Naval Hospital in Naples. killed a U.S. navy petty officer He said one crewman from the and injured nine other people. 
~~~l·. 
~ Daoly Deli>eoy 


"'"'~,..::....... tfuzannes.· ~I ~ 
! 
ROSE SPECIAL § 
•Walking distance from campus ~ 18061 Stare Road 23 •Delivery and wire service 
Near Ironwood Suzanne Kobek 
South Bend. lndtana 46637 (219) 277-2870 
.q,.q,~ 

BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 

: ~ ~ 
AUTHORIZED DEALER 
BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES-SERYICE-PARTS...ACCESSORIES 
• 
CLOSED SUNDAY a MONDAY • OPEN TUES BAM· 7PM 

• 
OPEN WED • SAT IIAM • 5:30PM 


Summer Storage Available Kryptonite Locks 
Parts & Service Available Students $26.95 

ROSELAND 277-8866 with ad cut-out 
135 DIXIE WAYS. 
i I 
I 

i ! 
' 

'' 
Friday, April 15, 1988 
Sailors injured on 



U.S. ship in Gulf 
Associated Press The Pentagon declined official 
comment on the report. 
WASHINGTON--An under­
water explosion tore open the The sources, who insisted on 
hull of an American guided­anonymity, said the frigate 
missile frigate in the central was "making only about two 
Persian Gulf and injured 10 knots" on its own power 
crewmen Thursday. Pentagon Thursday afternoon and would 
sources said it appeared the probably be taken under tow by 
warship hit a mine. the cruiser USS Wainwright. 
The Roberts and Wain wright 
The injured sailors --six with are two of 14 Navy ships as­slight burns, one with second­signed to the Persian Gulf force degree burns, one with a hernia to provide protection to com­
and two with back injuries -­mercial ships flying the Amer­were evacuated from the USS ican flag. The San Jose was in Samuel B. Roberts, the the area only because it was on Defense Department said. a resupply mission. 
The Roberts then began The Reagan administration steaming slowly under its own increased the U.S. force in the power toward port in Bahrain. region last summer in response 
The sailor with the second­to a request from Kuwait, degree burns was flown to Bah­whose oil tankers come under rain, the Pentagon said late attack in the course of the Iran­Thursday. The other nine were Iraq war. transferred to the USS San Jose, a combat stores ship oper­Dan Howard, the Defense ating in the central gulf. Department's chief spokes­
Defense sources said the man, said the Roberts had been crew of the Roberts had spotted in no danger of sinking and that "some mine-like objects" in the crew had managed to the water immediately before staunch flooding in the engine 
Jose Fernandez soaks up the rays while relaxing a quick halt today as temperatures plummetted into 
the 10:10 a.m. EDT explosion. compartments on its own. 
the 40s.

outside Center. Such activities came to 


Smart 

Help your parents
get throughcollege. 
Just thinking about college tuition is 
enough to make most parents break into 
a sweat. 

But can vou blame them? When vou 
consider th-e cost of tuition, books, · 
dorms-not to mention pizza parties­
you're talking big bucks. 
Which is why you should do some 
talking. Like telling your parents about 
the Education Loan Programs at 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust. 
At MH1~ not only do we participate 
in all three Federally guaranteed loan 
programs, but we also work with state 
and national agencies and can make 
guaranteed loans in all 50 states. 
In practically no time at all. 
In a matter of minutes, MHT Student 
Loan Processors can program your 
information into our computerized loan­
processing system. 

Within 24 hours, the Bank will get a decision from the Guarantee Agency. It's that simple. Better still, with MHT your parents will get all the money they need from one source. 
Example: If your folks need more money than government sources will give them, we can offer them tailor-made payment plans through The Education Loan Prqgram, Educational Lines of Credit or Monthly Budget Program and Pre-Payment Programs that make it easy for your parents to fund themselves. (The Education Loan Program, Monthly Budget and Pre-Payment Programs are offered through the Tuition Plan, a company of Manufacturers Hanover.) 
Once you get a loan from us, you can be sure it'll stay with us. Because we've never sold education loans to other banks (unless the borrower asked us to). 
So if you need money for school, call 1-800-MHT-GRAD and get yourself an MHT Education Loan Application. 
Then when your folks ask you about tuition, at least you'll have an answer. "No sweat." 
The ConsumerBanking Group 
Member FDIC. Gl E4ual Opportunit~·l.encler. ~' Wllll Manufacturers llano\'er Trust. All rights reserwcl. 

Soviets sign pact for Afghan withdrawal 
Associated Press 
GENEVA--The Soviet Union 
signed a formal pledge 
Thursday to withdraw its 
troops from Mghanistan start­
ing May 15, but there was no 
indication from guerrillas that 
the Red Army will be allowed 
to leave peacefully after eight 
years of war. 
Moslem insurgent leaders, 
who were not invited to the 
negotiations, said they would 
present their reaction Satur­
day at a rally in Pakistan. 
The U.S.-supported guerril­las, who claim to control vir­tually all the country except the cities, ere expected to repeat their vow to continue fighting until the last Soviet soldier has left Mghan soil. 
The United States, the Soviet Union, Mghanistan and neigh­boring Pakistan, signed the ac­cord Thursday in an austere tO­minute ceremony. It stipulates that the withdrawal begin May 15. 
Mterward, Pakistan, which represented the guerrillas at the negotiations, predicted the civil war will go on because there is no provision for an in­terim government, and said it would continue denying recognition to the Communist regime in Kabul. 
Provisions of the agreement require the two countries to stop interfering in one an­other's affairs. The insurgents, who have been fighting since a Communist coup in April 1978, are based in camps and cities on Pakistan's side of the bor­
der. 
About 3.5 million Mghan refugees live in Pakistan and another 1.5 million in Iran, to­gether representing about one­third of Mghanistan's popula­tion. Those in Iran are not covered by the agreement's provisions on return of refugees. 



of the presidents of the dorms invited, two task force mem­hers, the district senator, and the student body president or vice president and secretary. 
The purpose of these forums "is to give the student body the chance in several hall meetings to express their opinions re­garding each one of the reports," said Student Body Vice President Mike Paese. 
The meetings are structured to allow students "to respond in any way, give any opinion about any recommendation of the two reports we are discuss­ing," said Paese, adding the forums will consider only the recommendations concerning the alcohol and residentiality task forces. 
The students responses generated at these forums will be recorded by Student Body Secretary Ann-Marie Walker 
versity President Father Ed­
~~be~~~~a:t:9~p:.m:·~T:~:s:d:ey~a:t~F~is:h:e:r~--!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Observer 
have been sent out to the entire student body today (Thursday) ... and they will then be picked up next Thursday. (They) will also be compiled and given in a report to Father Malloy." The schedule for the remaining eight forums will be : 
•Farley, 
St. Ed's and Stanford at 6:30p.m. Friday at Stanford. eGrace at 9 p.m. Friday. 

•Pasquerilla 
East and West at 


6:30 p.m. Tuesday at Pasquerilla West. 
•Howard, 
Badin and Morrissey at 9 p.m. Tuesday at Morrissey. •AiumniandDillonat6:30p.m. Wednesday at Dillon. 

•Walsh, 
Sorin and Cavanaugh at 9 p.m. Wednesday at Cavanaugh. 

•Keenan, 
Breen-Phillips and Zahm at 6 p.m. Thursday at Zahm. 

•Pangborn, 
Lyons and Fisher 



Speaker 
educational support groups. 
Her varied titles have in­cluded professor of history at Smith, Wellesly and the Uni­versity of Pennsylvania, dean of women at Penn, and dean of the college at Wellesley and Sarah Lawrence. 
Bornholdt has also served as a member of the Commission of Universities for the govern­ment of Ghana, as a consultant for the American University of Cairo and as an administrator for Lilly Endowment, Inc., an Indianapolis based charitable giving concern. 
Also honored at the com­mencement ceremonies will be Kathleen and Robert Welsh of Valparaiso, Ind. They will receive the President's Medal, presented by Saint Mary's to individuals who have served their communities and the Col­lege in an outstanding fashion. The Welshes have been active in and around Valparaiso with a number of civic causes and organizations. Mrs. Welsh has served as a hospital volunteer, a grade school teacher and a member of the College's 

' 
\ 

5££; 
Dltl( . ~~tv-D(IV£ SEE DICk D[~[) 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
London School of Economics and Political Science 
A chance to study and live in London 
Junior-year programs, Postgraduate Diplomas, One­Year Master's Degrees and Research Opportunities in the Social Sciences. 
The wide range of subjects includes:­Accounting and Finance • Actuarial Science • Busi­ness Studies • Economics • Econometrics • Economic History • European Studies • Geography • Government • Health Planning .• Housing • Industrial Relations • International History • International Rela­tions • Law • Management Science • Operational Research • Philosophy, Logic & Scientific Method • Population Studies • Politics • Regional and Urban Planning • Sea-Use Policy • Social Administration • Social Anthropology • Social Planning in Developing Countries • Social Work • Sociology • Social Psychol­ogy • Statistical and Mathematical Sciences • Systems Analysis • 
Application forms from: 

Admissions Registrar, Room 10, L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England, stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate. 
Friday, April 15, 1988 
Northwest Indiana Alumnae Club. 
Mr. Welsh, president of Welsh Oil, Inc., Merrillville, In­d., is a board member with Gainer Bank, Northern In­diana Public Service Co. and Catholic Charities. He is also vice chairman of the Saint Mary's Board of Regents. A Notre Dame alumnus, Mr. Welsh is a past recipient of the University's "Man of the Year" award. 
Three Welsh daughters are Saint Mary's alumnae; a fourth, Mary Carol, is among this year's graduates. 
Other ceremonies include the Nurses' Pinning Ceremony, marking the nursing graduates' entry into the profession. The pinning will be May 13, at 1 p.m. in the Church of Loretto. Baccalaureate Mass will be offered at 4 p.m., also on the 13th, in Angela Ath­letic Facility. Presider and homilist will be the Most Rev­erend John D'Arcy, bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 
In the event of inclement weather, commencement ceremonies will be moved in­doors, to Angela Athletic Facility. 

Viewpoint
Friday, April15, 1988 page 7 
P.O. Box Q 
Cystic Fibrosis 
benefit tonight 
Dear Editor: 
It is not everyday that students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can help save lives. This Friday at Stepan Cen­ter from 6 p.m. to 3 a.m. we will be given this opportunity. 
I had no idea of the seriousness of Cystic Fibrosis, until Dave Temeles, head of the project at Notre Dame, told me about it. CF attacks the respiratory system, making it almost impossible to breathe because of the mucus which builds up in the lungs. Most people who get this disease usually die before the time they are 21. The fact that most people who have CF are teenagers who die so young, really hit home with me. I wanted to get involved and make people aware of the disease that affects people our own age. 
The Great Escape '88 is the perfect opportunity for students to get in­volved. For a $5 ticket that could help save a life, you could dance for 9 hours to different campus bands. 
Hopefully the fund raiser will be suc­cessful and other universities will join Notre Dame in the fight to find a cure for CF. All that is needed now is the support of you, the students, who enjoy dancing with your friends, having a good time, and helping out others less fortunate that you are. 
Julie Ryan Public Relations Committee for Cystic Fibrosis April 14, 1988 
Student Senate lacks competence 
Dear Editor: 
After reading The Observer's report on the new Student Senate's first meeting last Monday, Apr.ll, I just had to laugh. The Senate discussed whether or not seniors should be included in an upcoming Student Government Sur­vey;Questionnaire. Dr. Patrick Murphy, Associate Professor of Mar­keting, had advised a student govern­ment representative that in order to as­sure the statistical soundness of the survey, seniors should not be included. With this information fully in hand, the Senate members decided to include seniors in the survey. That sure makes sense to me. I laughed becuse this logi­cal decision-making has typified the Student Senate's actions all year long. I had hoped this was a characteristic unique to this year's Senate, but from this first meeting, it appears that even with an entirely new membership, save one or two people, the legacy is con­tinuing into next year. 
If members of the Senate truly believe that they collectively represent the intentions and concerns of the gen­eral student body, then why don't they act accordingly? I doubt very many students on this campus are prone to continually act unintelligently, foolish­ly, irrationally, unreasonably, and without foresight. Therefore, how could a body which acts in such a manner consider itself representative of the stu­dents? 
I wonder if the new Senate members, 
in commenting on their goals for the 
Student Senate, stated a desire to 
simply evaluate what their role on this 
campus should be and how best they 
could truly represent the students as 
they so often like to say they do. Since 
this simple self-evaluation and reflec­
tion would be a most intelligent and con­
scientious first step, probably not. 
Jeff Woode Off-campus April14, 1988 

Student workers host picnic 
Dear Editor: 

An event occurred this past Saturday, April 9, which wasn't publicized. This first time event was held for some of the hardest working people on this campus -University Food Service Stu­dent Employees. 
The North Dining Hall, the South Dining Hall, and the Huddle had a vol­leyball tournament with a BBQ. It was the first time that such an event took place. 
The idea was hatched between the UFS student managers. We planned an event for the students on the same day as the Fisher Regatta, the Jazz Fes­tival, the Football Picnic, and several other events which kept UFS busy. It was the only day we had before we start our finals schedules but our turnout numbered approximately over 100 stu­dents and a few full-time employees. 
It would not have been possible with­out the help of the UFS managers. A special thanks goes to Walt Dudka of North Dining Hall, Barb Corbat of South Dining Hall, and Mike Davy of the Huddle for all the help they did in getting our food and equipment. 
There is one man whose support and help we could not have done without ­Mr. Bill Hickey. Thanks for the encour­agement and the confidence you gave us. Thanks to everyone who showed up and we'll wee you next year at the Second Annual Volleyball BBQ! 
Christina R. Rodriguez Student Manager The Huddle April12, 1988 

"Life of Brian" and ND values 
I Dear Editor: Saint Mary's Student Activities Board and the Notre Dame Student Union Board are sponsoring a lecture by Graham Chapman on April 24 at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. At the very least, the fact that two Catholic institutions of higher learning are presenting this lecture seems very inappropriate. 
I OON'T KNOW, kilL THEY UIT LEFTIES PRETT't' GOOD. 
IXl YOO UAVE ANY 
EXPERI~NCF 
Chapman is a member of the Monty Python comedy troupe, and he starred in the film "Life of Brian," which is a spoof on the life of Christ. "Life of Brian" has been condemned by the Catholic Church, and it is a film which a great many Christians find extremely offensive. It presents Christ's life, crucifixion and resurrection as butts of jokes. After seeing such a film, one begins to wonder, "is nothing sacred?" 
Knowing that Saint Mary's SAB and Notre Dame's SUB have invited Chap­man to speak at Saint Mary's and have advertised it as a major entertainment event of the semester, one must ques­tion their judgement. Do they know about "Life of Brian?" Notre Dame's SUB must, because they are showing the film this week, and they have shown it in the past as well. Do they see any conflict between the mission of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and not only showing "Life of Brian" but inviting Chapman to speak at Saint Mary's? Maybe they ought to consider such a conflict because, last time I checked the charter, we were a Catholic Uni­versity. 

NO, BUT "E 
IXISAGRm OOST-GAMi INTERVIEWI 

Doonesbury 
A5 THE 5PIN·aJmtJI..URS SPUN THeiR 6055AM£R. OR&AM'3... 

I se&A TAJ<e­j GIARGe 8USI.f.l A UH­
HUH...

• BUSH ON HORSE­
I
BACK! 

... TH& CANOIOATE HIM5E/.F IJE.6AN m8t£FUP H/5 SELJ=-IMAG8. 
YOU'!?& 
/AieAR­
IN6!7; G&0/?6&. 
~ 


He ~AKTW 70 00 MOR& ''61JY 5TUFF.'1 
HI, 80Y5! CAN I 51T IN~ iJJ01< /A/HAT I BROUGHT.' BeER! 
I 

~\t_
-...
"I\ 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"I don't know of a single foreign product that enters this country untaxed except the answer to a prayer." 
Mark Twain 

lH& SE.CRET SCR.VIC/3., OF COURS&, HAO 5TANI/ING ORIJ&R.5 TO LET HIM /A/IN. 
REAOCM 
1/NPtuUP, 80Y5/I 
..._,,~ 
/I<' 


Editoral Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly  Business Manager ........................... John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager.. . ... Molly Killen  
News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia  Advertising Manager...  ... Unda Goldschmidt  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ot either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as  News Editor ................................... Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Editor ................................. Man Slaughter Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen  Production Manager ............... ...... Bernadene Shihs Systems Manager..... .. ....... Mark Ridgeway Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman  
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, leHers and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space  Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele  Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns  
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on  Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran  
campus, through leners, is encouraged.  

Founded November 3,1966 
.. ~--· --~ 
i I I 
0 
C-' 


~--_-----­
The Observer 
SANDRA McBRIDE accent writer 

W 
ith the success of the Nazz competition and the recent Killdozer show, this spring has given students an excellent opportunity to hear local and campus bands at Notre Dame. Tonight's "Great Escape '88" band marathon, recently changed from 6 p.m. --3 a.m. to 6 p.m. --2 a.m. at Stepan Center, will benefit Cystic Fibrosis, and feature campus and regional bands, in addition to a talented, well-known Chicago band, Material Issue. 
CONCERT 

Having opened for the Replacements, 10,000 Maniacs, and dozens of other bands, Ma­terial Issue has recently com­pleted a successful tour of Mid­western college campuses with Green, another critically ac­claimed Chicago band. A former member of Green, lead singer and guitarist Jim Ellison formed Material Issue over two years ago, with Ted Ansami on bass and vocals and Mike Zelenka on drums. 
The band's name originates from a form that Ellison had to fill out daily when he worked at a security alarm factory. The three musicians have very diverse tastes in music, ranging from AC!DC to the Eagles to Soul Asylum. 
Material Issue's first release, a now sold out, self-titled EP on Landmlnd Records, Is due to be 

< 
u 
t t 
:I: 
u 
~ 
z 
IJJ 
u 
u 
< 

The ObserveP'Joanne Whitfield 
JOHN BLASI accent writer 
T
he Second City. The namt 
1 

coJ1iures images of Satur4 I Night Live stars such as Bill ~ 
1 

ray, Dan Aykroyd, John Belus and Gilda Radner --all of wh' played at this improvisional ! nightclub. The City's 69th reJ "John Paul Sartre and Ringo": 
COMEDY 
upholds the crisp satiric tradil that was established by these stars. 
"Sartre" can be best des­cribed as a series of unrelate< scenes in the style of a "Satu1 day Night Live" show rather tt a play. The show combined a brisk pace with brilliant and o 
Pat's Put1 
KEVIN B~CKER accent writer 
U
pcoming formals, SYRs, 
senior week and comme' 
ment weekend provide a nul 
of opportunities for studenl:l 
dine out in the next month. 
the standard student South 
eateries do not seem appea: 
Pat's Colonial Irish Pub in M 
hawaka may be an enticing , 
ternative. 

RESTAURANT 
,,~..: -~:::::;:/.0:, ~r -:-:~$/-;'.-::w: ,t.~ f&' :-;-:-:y::::z ,<'" 
About a 15 minute drive fr 
the Notre Dame campus, Pat 
Pub boasts a healthy menu c 
moderately priced seafood a· 
steaks along with a full bar f 
the wait. The atmosphere is 
ture and mellow, and the 
average crowd seems to be < 
collection of South Bend bab 
boomers and their families. 
Pat's strongest and most al dant menu item appears to t Its seafood selections, outnu1 bering the red meat choices about two to one. Fish (stum and broiled) is the predomlm and most appetizing seafood 
Band plays benefit 
re-released soon. The EP fea­tures ex-Big Black member San­tiago Durango on guitars for "She's Going Through my Head," 
and was produced by a former member of the Shoes, Jeff Murphy. Material Issue's music Is characterized by loud, driving guitars and gripping harmonies, blended into skillfully written pop songs. 
According to Ellison, the band tries to focus on the quality of the individual songs, rather than trying to achieve an overall sound. "We're not trying to be part of anyone else's trend," he claims. According to the band's press release, the result is"... wild psycho-pop... which will spin you into a frenzy." The band plans to release a full al­bum on Susstones Records soon. 
Material Issue's energy on vinyl is definitely carried over into their live performances. Two cuts which stood out during their live performances at the Cabaret Metro last December were "Mary Spins a Rainbow," with its catchy melody and "Chance of a Lifetime." 
Material Issue will be perform­ing tonight at Stepan Center. Tickets are $5, available at The Cellar and at the door, with all proceeds to be donated to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. "The Great Escape '88" provides stu­dents with the chance to hear quality campus bands, as well as to experience Material Issue, a great 11ew band on the Indepen­dent musk scene. 

--~------------·---------·------~------~------------­
Friday, April 15, 1988 






ten irreverent satire to poke fun at topics like the "new and im­proved" church, Jesse Jackson, and noveau artists. 
The cast did a fantastic job of creating the diverse characters that the scenes required. Aaron Freeman did an biting imper­sonation of Jesse Jackson that captured Jackson's penchant for metaphors. Freeman likened the 
U.S. to the "bowling ball of democracy." He excelled at field­Ing questions from the audience concerning Issues such as the West Bank unrest. Israel was the "Oucci loafer" that stomped on the face of the Palestinians. 
Kevin Crowley played an artist struggling to sell his work with­out sacrificing his Integrity. Barb Wallace acted as his market-minded girlfriend, and Steve Assad and Bonnie Hunt portrayed his down-to-earth par­ents. They all contributed to make this scene one of the fun­
niest in the show. Aaron 
Freeman complicated the plot in 
his role as the eccentric art 
buyer and helped to make the 
transition from show to intermis­sion quite smooth. 
Another exceptionally funny scene brought the audience to an army chaplain boot camp. Steve Assad played the over­zealous Jesuit sergeant who was desperately attempting to con­vert his group Into an well­disciplined chaplains. Bonnie Hunt. Kevin Crowley, Aaron Freeman and Barb Wallace played the chaplains in training. 
Located In downtown Chicago near Lincoln Park at North Ave­nue and Wells St., The Second City provides and excellent ex­cuse to escape from South Bend. More of an intimate nightclub than a theater, the City offers a bar, cheese and sand­
.....

wiches and desserts during the show. "John Paul Sartre and Ringo" will run from Tuesday to Sunday through the end of the school year. Reservations are recom­mended for performances and tickets are $7.50 at the door. The other show now playing at Second City is "Kukla, Fawn and Ollie" and the always popular Improvisation Hour following these performances. For reserva­tions call (312) 337-3992. 
~onnie Hunt, Aaron Freeman, and Kevin Crowley in their ~eft to right: Aaron Freeman, Kevin Crowley, and Rick Hall satirize the :hurch in Second City's 'Jean-Paul Satre and Ringo.' 

provides fine fare at fair prices 
'· ·,;·,. 
L .. ~:.~ ~~ :;·,~~~'•'"­

Morrissey's solo 
Item, but is complemented by a variety of shell-fish. The steak selection Is standard fair, exclud­ing the appearance of two high­priced lamb-chops with mint 
jelly. The average prices for an entree is about $8, Including potatoe and salad. 
Appetizers are limited to a few basic choices, Including fried and sauteed mushrooms, shrimp cocktail (priced at a little over $5) and breaded oysters. Desserts are also fairly standard, and, according to my waitress, are not made In-house. 
If my meal of trout stuffed with shrimp and crabmeat was any indication, the quality of the food Is very good. The dish was served promptly and was sizzling hot. Smothered in butter, the entree was no dietary delight, but the excellent taste and the healthy portion more than made up for any guilt by association with the meal. 
The quality of the rest of the meal was not up to par with the main dish but was not at all dis­appointing. I tried the fried mushrooms as the appetizer. 
While the serving was large and 
served hot. it was obviously of 
the frozen rather than the fresh variety. The salad with French 
bacon dressing followed. It too was nothing extraordinary but could by no means be called bad. The potatoe fits the same basic description. 
One of the most pleasing aspect of the meal Is the prompt. courteous serving. At­tention was paid to each cus­tomer upon entering the door until the check arrived. Even as the restaurant filled to capacity, my waitress never hesitated to fill water glasses or hustle to meet the demands of all her customers. 
The bar service Is also quick. Although the selection of beer is not the extremely broad (there appeared to be no draft beer, for example), it should serve to meet most before-meal tastes. Bar drinks are also readily avail­able, as patrons ordered anyth­ing from screw-drivers to' mar­garltas. 
Overall, Pat's Pub Is a safe bet for most student diners. With a solid menu, tasty food and ex­cellent service, this restaurant deserves some student attention. 
If you would like to give Pat's Pub a try, the phone number is 259-8282. They take reserva­tions, and by the looks of the crowd last Saturday night, a may be a safe bet to call ahead if you plan on eating there after 7 pm on a weekend night. 
Pat's Colonial Irish Pub 
Address: 901 W. 4th Street Mishawaka, IN 
Phone: 
259-8282 Reservations: Recommended on weekends Recommendations: trout stuffed with crab meat 
Prices: moderate-about $8 for main courses. 
RICHARD THORNBURGH accent writer 
W 
ith Viva Hate, Morrissey embarks on a solo career after rising to the top of the 80's ror:k scene with The Smiths. His new album lacks the brilliant guitar work of Joh­hny Marr, but Morrissey's lilting lyrics fill the void. 
MUSIC 

You either love Morrissey's voice or you hate it --there's no middle ground. I find it very relaxing and captivating. Granted his tone is somber and often depressing. but It's ap­propriate for the serious topics with which he deals. 
Morrissey continues to en­hance Intelligent and often Ironic lyrics on Viva Hate with a voice that captures the many shades of despair. Although some of the songs are entranc­Ing. a few may leave you yawning. 
"Suedehead, " the first single released from the album, went straight to the top of the British charts and Is doing well on U.S. college radio stations too. 
Despite the noticeable ab­sence of Marr's catchy guitar licks, Vinl Reilly comes through on a few songs with some original material that distin­guishes this album from all the Smith's work. His guitar ab­solutely screams on "I Don't Mind If You Forget Me," and this song will wake you up If some of the others put you to sleep. 
If you're sick of Morrissey's fear of love, check out "Break Up the Family." He finally seems willing to embrace love: "Oh I'm so glad to grow oldeli' to move away from those younger years! now I'm in love for the first time' and I don't feel bad." 
Although many are moaning and questioning the band's split after 17 classic singles and four gold albums, Morris­sey's solo career Indicates a new era In pop music. A talent such as his still has great po­tential, and although VIva Hate has Its weak spots, It also has some potential classics that es­tablish Morrissey as a prominent solo artist. 
-
_j 

Accent 
page 10 Friday, April 15, 1988 
A manual for doubting Thomases 
T
his is the season when the Krieg's book isn't Christology . In a spanking good story texts we like. and throw away the homework. or we remain followers of Jesus went made easy: It will require your which you use to nourish your the Epistle to the Hebrews, illiterate in our understanding hunting for Him in a cemetery, attention and mental discipline; soul, none of the details are because its theme of sacrifice of the Christian God. and an angel asked why they but he has done his homework renegotiable. In a wimpish age, sets our teeth on edge. All The homework will not lead sought to find the living among in order to bring us insights we've allowed the glory to fade Scripture is useful in furnishing us to a dead end, like the one the dead. During Lent a num­from some very dense scholar­from the Gospel because we've us with clues to the mystery of we come to after finishing "War ber of young Catholics, making ship, not so much to chopped up the script, leaving the hidden God who Jesus is and Peace". Tolstoy's novel a sacramental confession, said: popularize it as to simplify it. essential parts out; the result is revealing. may charm or inspire us, of "Father, I don't have faith The conclusion that he leaves that the Gospel seems flat, like How can a young Christian course. Who has not heard of enough. Help me accept Christ us with is that the Theology tired champagne. deepen his faith? He should the lady who wept after finish­as my Lord and Savior." which moves us to oray comes read the Bible until the texts Ing War and Peace, because 
In the church-of-what's­live, and the stories breathe she would never again have the happening-now, the Gospel grace, and all the dead metap­pleasure of reading it for the hangs on a half dozen threads: hors look sprightly to him. first time? Entering Natasha's
Father Robert Griffin 
"Let him who is without sin...", world is a trip made by the the Beatitudes, and Paul writing As often as possible, he imagination. You enter Christ's
Letters to a Lonely God 
on love to the Corinthians. should read the Gospels out world with an act of faith. These are the texts the stu­loud, to sense the power com­-I have no handy formulas for from acquainting ourselves dents choose whenever they ing out of them. He shouldn't Christ is alive now, and his are asked to decide on the read lazily or like a fundamen­world is ongoing. St. Peter was
turning Doubting Thomases with the sources of revelation. 
His servant, and Dorothy Day
into Christians certain of their Do you want to know Christ readings for mass. talist ignoring the scholarship grasp on the truth about the Jesus? Search the Scriptures, What do they know of Christ of Christians who could spread was His servant, and Mother risen Son of God. Yesterday, under several headings, in a as the Suffering Servant prop­light coming from the Holy Teresa is His servant in the Spirit on God's word. Father world, this minute. He is today
however, in the book store, I systematic way. The Scriptures hetically shadowed in the 
found a slim paperback book are forcefully cohesive in a way songs of Isaiah; or of "My God, Krieg's book could assist him and forever her eternal Lord, that points the reader to the that is more persuasive than my God, why hast Thou for­in studying the different levels and the narrative of their toget­one great Book on which our any program in Christian saken me?", cross-referenced of narrative that identify Jesus. herness will never end. 
Father Krieg's DOOK is betteracquaintanceship with Jesus is apologetics. They lead you to on Calvary from Psalm 22? 
God, who loves to hear a than anything I can say aboutbased: Robert A. Krieg's Story­experience Christ who is pow­What do they understand by story, is Himself the central it now, after a quick reading.
Shaped Christology, subtitled erful and compassionate, the words, "Before Abraham character in an ongoing story: He makes no sentimental of­"The Role of Narratives In Iden­today, yesterday, and forever. was, I am?" 
uur trouble is that we're a recitation of the Creed, that fers of cheap grace that can act
tifying Jesus Christ." God, they say, made human willing to settle for a God not begins with creation, should like a drug. giving you a quick
Ordinarily, I don't go in for beings because He loves a much bigger than ourselves, show you that. Christ was fix in Christian maturity.
reviewing books; this notice I'm story. Human beings, in their and we go shopping in the crucified, died, and was buried; Young Catholics may not betaking of Father Krieg's book is love of stories, are on a on the third day, He arose. the readers Father Krieg had in
too fleeting for me to do jus­wavelength with God. In Bible for verses that leave us mind when he wrote the book;
tice to the book in the way a Homer, the important charac­on an easy footing with Him. but as a teacher theologizing
ters take the time to tell their We fixate on His directions to Father Krieg is taking pains stories to anyone they meet. offer food and drink to His to explain that if we want to students whom he cares forreviewer should do. 
I'm proud that Bob Krieg. a and admires, he'll not be
Holy Cross priest teaching at The stories are interesting. not bretheren in need, making Him know who Jesus is, we have to Notre Dame and a friend of 
just because, in a particular our model in the promotion of spend time studying the sacred surprised, I hope, if I recom­mine, has shown us the way in chapter, Ulysses is in danger, social justice. Why not balance literature with all its parables, mend "Story-Shaped" Theology 
which we can enrich our souls but because he is trapped with this with, "Fear not those who allegories, and rich symbolism. to undergraduates who haven't got the time and patience for
with grace through meeting the his men in the sealed cave of kill the body, but instead, fear In a generation content to describe God as "the Man Walter Kaspar or Schillebeeck.
Word made flesh telling us of the one-eyed, flesh-eating those who endanger the soul?'' The point is, we specialize in upstairs," we either start doing The end.... /
His Fatners love for mankind. _9c1ops. 
: MAKE YOUR VOICE HEARD : 
: The students' response to the Task Force Reports: : : Times and Dates of students' response meetings : 
e DATE DORMS PLACE TIME e
•

• 4-14 Carroll I Holy Cross I Lewis Lewis 6:30 e
•

• 
4-14 Flanner Flanner 9:00 e e 4-18 Stanford I Farley I St. Ed Stanford 6: 30 • e 4-18 Grace Grace 9:00 • e 4-19 PW IPE PW 6:30 e : 4-19 Morrissey I Howard I Badin Morrissey 9: oo : 

• 
4-20 Alumni I Dillon Dillon 6:.30 e 

• 
4-20 Walsh I Sorin I Cavanaugh Cavanaugh 9:00 e e 4-21 Keenan I BPIZahm Keenan 6:30 • e 4-21 Fisher I Pangborn I Lyons Fisher 9:00 • 

•e 
Task Force members will be there to answer questions. The dialogues from •• • the meetings will effect policy decisios. • 


: BE THERE! : 
: ...it's your chance to ask questions and express your opinion. : 
-• • 
: (Feel free to attend any of the meetings.) : 
••••••••••••••••••••••...•.•.•••••..••••••••..•..••..•••: 



The Observer page 11 
Tile a..wrNot"' Dame offkle, located on the thln:llloof of L.afooune Stu­dent c.nt.r, ~~CC:ePta claaalfted ectw.tiUIQ from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 1"M a..-Saint Mery'a omc.,locahld on the thinS ftoor of Hllgg.r Collge Cent•.~~CC:ePta claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline tor next-day clualtleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaaltleda must 
Classifieds be pniPakl, el~ In penon or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ~~day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Profesaors and grad-students: Pandora's will buy your booka. Call 233·2342 to make an appointment 10.5:30 7 day&Week Wordproceaalng·Typing 272-11127 CALL 237·111411 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011 TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n·7406 MADMACS MADMACS MADMACS L.ool< for more PD 80ftware, System Software updates, speakers like Guy Kawaaak1 from ACtUS, and much more ... (Ae)organlzatlonal meeting coming soon for next year. The ROM Warrior returns WOADePLUS  WANTED Counselors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway camp, Ma89achusetts Berf<shires, WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pianoplay for shows, judo, photography, dance, com· puters, nature, wilderness, model rock· etry, guitar. radio, video, archery, year· book, woodworf<ing, AN and typist Wme: Camp Emeroon, 5 Brassie Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779-9406. WANTED: PLASMA DONORS. Help uva a lila and Nrn extra c.ah at the Nme time. New and old donora who have not given within 30 daya will be paid $12 c.ah alter donating II you bring In lhla ad. Come to Amerlc.n Pf..ma on Tuaaday, Wadneaday, Frtday or Saturday, 515 Llncolnway Wut, South Bend. 234-6010. ROOMMATE WANTED Summer only, male to ahara Campu• vr-two bedroom, S200tno., lncludea air; Call Dorine 81 272-1441. Drug u-• not to'-ad. ROOMMATE(S) NEEDED Senior returning for grad school Is looking for roommates for off-campus apartment or house. Call Todd x1788.  SMC.ND SUMMER ROME PROORAM JUNE 12.JULY 11. TRAVEL IN FRANCE,QER, SWITZ• I ITALY. COURSES IN ITALIAN,HIST,SOC AVAILABLE. MAY 18 DEADLINE.FOR INFO CALL T.J. AT 2053 OR DR. BLACK AT 284-4480 OR 272-3726. SEMNIOR FORMAL TICKET FOR SALE 4 My dale waa klllad by terrortata, ao ha c.n't go... Will take Beat Ollar, Call Diane 271 ~205 SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or B.MILLEA PO 665 ND IN NOTRE DAME POM PON SQUAD TRYOUTS: FIRST CLINIC 4'1 7 11·2 ROCK GYM FIRST CUTS 4'18 6·9 ACC PIT SECOND CLINIC 4'1 9 8·11 ACC GYM 4 SECOND CUTS· 4-20 6·9 ACC PIT ALL TRYOUTS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. ANYONE INTERESTED IN TRYING OUT IS WELCOME. MORE IN· FO? ERICA 2493 OR MELISSA 284· 5099 JUST SAY uNOc. ugly nan on campua... WANTED: female AOOMATE, North Chicago Subs,beginning in Aug. Call Mary Kay, # 3023 or 2999 ROOMMATES WANTED FOR OFF· CAMPUS NEXT YEAR ... 2 NEEDED  open ultimate frisbee saturday noon step­han To whoever atole the rad backpack from outalde lha third floor welghtroom altha Rock Wad a.m.: You c.n keep the money. Ple.,.a)u81 give evarythlng eiN to aomeone who c.n get II beck to me. ThoN thing• arw very Important. 3411 Morrtaaay KNOW SOMEONE SPECIAL? SEND ROSES SPECIALLY PRICED NOW I SUZANNE'S FLORAL 18061 STATE ROAD 23 2n-2810 MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHT MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHT THIS FRIDAY APRIL 15 MOVIES ON THE MOD QUAD FRIDAY APRIL 15TH COME ONE, COME ALL FREE FREE FREE FREE TONIQHT TONIQHT TONIQHT MOD QUAD MOVIE NIQHT MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHT 8:30 TONIGHT HELP US CELEBRATE MOD QUAD SPIRIT  Men on Men: The Cinderella team in Bookstore Basketball. Dick Vitale says. "they're a team of destiny, baby." Watch them knock another t1111m Monday 6:15 at Stepan. · HEY YOU HEY YOU HEY YOU FINALLY THE EVENT YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FORI TONIGHT. .. THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 Bam~~ 2pm 11:00 DEADHORSE 6:45 YOUTH IN ASIA 7:30 EUXER (PURDUE) 8:15 CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 11:05 SGT. FRIDAY (PROFESSIONAL) 10:20 MATERIAL ISSUE (IN WVFI'S TOP TEN) 11 :35 the GROOVE 12:45 TOXIC GYPSY (PURDUE) 1:15 ZETO a THE HEAT-DNS ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CYSTIC FIBROSIS FREE ICE CREAM SANDWICHES FOR THE FIRST 200 TO ENTER PLUS PRIZES AND AROTATING DOOR POLICY  TO: ORETCHEN ON HER 25th t.Sew your pocl<eta shut 2.Beware of cameras at parties 3.Have some Mount Gay rum 5.Hide your cigarettes 6.What's the big· gest part of a Heisman Trophy winner anyway? 7 .... and where are your aummer clothes? B.Get a 'B' on 80rnething for once 9.1s your biological clock ticking? 10.You better catch Mr. Right before he graduates In Mayl 11.Have you got your 'groove move' down? 12.Has anybody choked you lately? 13.1s sleeping on the floor better that your bed? t4.Why du you Lac your roommate out? 15.What are the benefits of being 'Queen of the Devotables'? 16. What did he play on your guitar? 17.Nookie Queen? 18.Too drunk to get served at Macri's? 19.Whet can you do with 3 eggs, 3 bananas, I 3 Ml dogs? 20.How many shots dooa It take to become president? 21.How did you get interested in Russian LHerature? 22.When are your twins due? 23.They only wanted you In the case competrtlon to turn overheads 24.Your prof8990r (bo99) has been lool<ing for you 25. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, GERTI TRAVEL··MEET NEW PEOPLE··SEE THE WORLD Are these your hopes and dreams for the coming school year? Will you be leaving South Bend for study in exotic lends? NOOMC FRESHMEN AND SOP· HOMOAES WHO ARE STUDYING ABROAD NEXT YEAR: Corne to Student Government's BON VOYAGE PARTY  
Scholastic Typing€diting Auah Jobs O.K 258-aon  FOR SALE  FOR CAMPUS VIEW (spot reserved) or 1 for NO APTS. Call Jlm2005 or Kevin-2033.  Are you familiar  SUMMER  JOBS!  SUMMER  JOBS!  PIZZA,  TUESDAY, APRIL 19 4-6 PM THEODORE'S POP, TRAVEL TALK  QUES·  
Government Home• from $1.00. "U Repair". Alae lllx delinquent property. Call 805-644·11533 Ext. 1387 lor Into.  GREAT HUNGER CLEANUP VOLUN· TEE AS Remember to collect donations.First  with the term ROADKILL? nan sauer for UMOC...  AVAILABLE AT THE DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER EVENING HOURS, NO WEEKENDS. 20  TIONS? MARY 1284 DU THE MAMBA! with  
LOST/FOUND CORONA KEYCHAIN & KEYS LOST AT SENIOR BAA OR BRIDGET'S I THINK. ..... PLEASE CALL PATTY AT 283·2807 IF FOUNDIIIIIII BLUE NOTRE DAME WALLET LOST ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. I LOST MY IDS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY CLARE AT 283·2758 THANKSI ............................................ Found: one Marriage and Family text and ona beginning Hallan text near Juniper and Howard Sta. over Easter break. Call Kathy 2n-2Q44 FOUND·-65 Glove&Minena at Lost and Found··Al80 many Glove and Mitten Pairs; Scatfa Tooll Claim today. 110 LaFortune Hall LOST: BLUE ID HOLDER WITH CALl· FORNIA DRIVER'S LICENSE AND DETEX LOST ON MARCH 25 AT CHIPS IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X2691 LOST: A RED 3-RINO BINDER. I t.llll In room 101 of Hurley lui T.-dlly (~) -my 1:15 clau. II you picked II up, piMM c.ll Angle 81 283­40118. II haa ....rythlng !rom all of my cl•-In II and II Ia vltJIIto my pa.. lng my llnalallllllll Thank• help float a brown wallet with lnitiala FJD, contained 10. drlver'a liacence, and pholoa. H was loat somewhere between North dining hall and the Engineering li· brary. Please call Francia at283·1723 or return to 704 Grace Hall d found. AEWAADIIIIIII LOST: One jeans jacl<et.l wouldn't care nyou kept H if no1 for my keys being in the pocl<et. H was left In 101 Hurley after the 10:10 cla99 on Wed. 4113. My name Ia In the coat 80 give me a call at x2003. FOR RENT  IBM PC?<T Model 086 1OMb dlak, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quad ram CGA color monitor. $1 ,600 price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO and other 80ftware packages al80 avail· able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239· 7248 weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 o.m. FOR SALE: A pair of Nordica ski boots, size 8. Call Jenn at 2975. Anh Alllance'83·5apd,4dr,air,new ex­h&batt,clean,good cond·$1900tJest olf· Dave3349 TYPEWRITEFWIORD PROCESSOR For Sale LOTS of QOODIES If ln-.piMN call Amy x12fl3 81 VOLKSWAQEN SCIROCO 5 SPEED STICK,SUN ROOF,STEREO,NEW TIRES A PAD,18000 MILES EXCEL· LENT CONDITION, S 2150, CALL JIN 272)8538 For sale; 1980 Chevene, excellent con· dltion, 85,000 miles, $1 ,200 or best offer. Call Sarah at 283·3943. TICKETS I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GAADUA· TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN Have extra senior formal bid, want to go? Chris-4006 call after 11 p.m. WE NEED 1 OR 2 ORAD TIX. CALL KAREN 28711, OR ERIC 232·13119 TODAY! HELPII DESPERATELY need one more Commencement ticket. I'll make you a GREAT DEAL $$$1 Call Gretchen 272· 2836 HELPII I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big $$$ Call Heidi 233·4176  prize: Unrted Umo ticket, $45 value.Many other prizes. Try to get at least $30. THANKS SATURDAY, APRIL 16 WORK THIS SUMMER ON HILTON HEAD IS. WANTED 2 AOOMATES TO SHARE CONDO CALL ANNE 284·4314 NO MOVERS NEEDED FOR NEW STU­DENT ORNIENTATION AT SAINT MARY'S WANTED ALL GUYS INTERESTED IN COMING BACK EARLY TO HELP MOVE IN NEW STUDENTS. CHANCE TO MEET NEW PEOPLE. WILL HAVE TO BE BACK ON WEDNESDAY, AU· GUST 17,1988. FOR MORE INFOAMA· TION CONTACT CATHY BURKE AT 284·5051 TO OUR FAVORITE NINJA, HAPPY 19THI·THE WOMEN WHO LUST YOU ................................................................ AN TOSTAL IS COMING\ AN TOSTAL IS COMINGI AN TOSTAL IS COMING I AN TOSTAL IS COMINGI AN TOSTAL is cominglll Last day for signups is today. Kisser, Slam Dunk, Scavenger Hunt, Bike Race, Mud pillow· fights and morel Room 307 Lafortune. 3·5:00pm TODAYIII Hey Dudea of THE GROOVE I I love your COOL aounda and amazing equipment I aurw hope-can wor11 together morw ottan I GIVE ME A CALL ANY nME (even H you juat need a mo-) MJR -aound guy ································································ Tab Cable-TV, Etc. ••••••••••..••••••••••••••• * * * • * IRISH SPRING RUNS • • • • This Saturday at 1L~..:.:..:..:.~~~~..~P at NVA • • •  Prince Charming: You don't have to bring my smile back if you don't want to. Just seeing you does thatl ··Cinderella P.S. Why not on the side? KISSER IS HEAEI KISSER IS HERE\ KISSER IS HEREI Object of the game: to obtain the most 'kissing contrects'. Strategy: ki99 your op­ponents before they kiss youl Prizes for most 'strategic' KISSEASIII Sign ups Thurs. 7·9 and Fri. 3·5 in the An Tostal Office. Happy 1st Colleen/ Love, Mom, Dad, Trish, and Greg STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER 81 STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! L-1nata. 24 hoUr electronic protao­tlon. Call 1154-3838. CRUISE TO THE TUNE OF S&-$1otfR. Can you make $12,IIOG'Ir. delivering lor Domlno'a P!z%11? You bell Now hlrtng. 1835 South Bend Avenue S3.754>r with bonua 81 hlrw. 2n-215t. WHERE WERE YOU WHEN THE LIQHTS WENT OUT? AT THE MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHTIII COME TO THE MOD QUAD MOVIE NIOHT HOT SPOT ON CAMPUS • FRIDAY NfQHT YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY HAVE ANYTH­ING BETTER TO DO INTERESTED IN SUBLEmNG EFFI­CIENCY OR 1 BEDROOM APMT. FROM MAY 15TO AUQ 15. WILL PAY $200-S300. CALL CATHY AT 251141.  HRS PER WEEK TIL THE END OF JULY! $4.35 • $4.75 PER HOUR. PER­FECT JOB FOR SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS. APPLY AT BADIN PHONE CENTER OR CALL CAROL McCLORY AT 2311-71138 MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHT MOO QUAD MOVIE NIQHT MOD QUAD MOVIE NIQHT IF RAIN SHOULD FALL -QO TO NORTH DININO HALLI!t ································································ MOD QUAD MOVIE NIQHT IF AAIN SHOULD FALL QO TO NORTH DININO HALL SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES APPUCATIONS FOR JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL ARE DUE ON MONDAY THEY CAN BE ~CKED UP AND DROPPED OFF AT THE SECRE· TARY'S DESK,2ND FLOOR LA FORTUNE ANY QUESTIONS? CALL MATI AT x11188 HAPPY BIRTHDAY CALLIFOANIAI LOVE, BANDIT, RODNEY, SAHARA AND FRIENDS Shizzer, H's my B·Day,do you love me yet? The Short One If you see Chris White, M him wHh a bat... because that's the way morn would heve wanted H. LOST: 1) Pink pair of tights 2) Jar of vaseline call Chris Whrte Chris WhHe: God of Thunder ................................................................ Chris WhHe: Boy, do I wish I was HIS mirror! Chris WhHe: Just call him 'Thor'. Happy B·Day Patch Laroon-From Morn,Dad,Tony,Dean,and Mike Happy 21811 Happy Birthday! Gretchen From the LUNCH BUNCH  THE QROOVE GREAT ESCAPE FAISTEPAN 11:35-12:45 THE QROOVE THE GROOVE THE GROOVETHEQROOVETHEQROOVE DANCE... THE BUMBUNG IDIOTS GO TO W. VIRGINIA LAI'a row the 8 PUUUUUUUUUUUULLLLLLLIII THANKS ST. JUDE, MOTHER MARY. AND TRISHI .........:\R'Niii''TiiOM'.\ii''i;;;··uidoC''''""' Aak any Howard chick, he 80 goofy lookln' dat he make ua laugh. Sophomore needs psychological coun· aellng after MARATHON SYA ...cant atop laughing Happy belated 19th birthday to that good of' porn king. What would we do without you. THE GRIND THE QRIND AT BRIQETTS .110 CANS I to 10 THE GRIND F;;;;i~;..,;:;.;;;..~·;;;iii~·o:::........................ More powertul than silent E.. . Able to leap cap"al leners In a alngle bound ... It's a word.. . H's a plan... It's IA!tarmanlll GIL I SKIP: YOUR RUBBER CHICKEN IS SMALL BUT POTENTI WHERE ARE THE TIES-THEY'RE LONGER!! JAY & TOM· Call us when you get SEVEN INCHES and oorne MALIBU!  ...  
2 houaea available for fall,88 rent: 817 N. St. Loula,4 to 5 atudenta. 713 N. St. Louis, 6 students 232-<19&1 2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID 288.()955 FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BOAHOOD 286-o955/.!55-3884 Summer Rental; 2 Bd.; $172<tno. per per· son; Located at Ironwood and Edi80n; call 271·0559. 7 BEDROOM FURNISHED HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYS.. TEM.SUMMER OR FALL 272-413011 NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 8838889 NICE ROOM TO SUBLEASE FOR THE SUMMER JUNE-AUGUST 31 KITCHEN,BATHAOOM,LIVING AOOM,TV,ETC $125, CALL 288· 7929,VOLKEA OrNt Loca11on ,.., c.mpua. Large brtck home. Room lor II atudenta. 2  PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER a UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les· bians at Notre Dama5tMary's College P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46558. Confidentiality Guaranteed. endad Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard olf ND Ave. 10·5:30, 7day&Week 233·2342 ...................... SPRING BREAK-OUT SALEI Apr. 15-17. Used Books 5().90% off. New books 30% off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off ND Ave. 10·5:30 7 day&' week. 233-2342 ATIENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur· chase For more Information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236·2200 Bertles Imports BMWMAZDANW All JETIAS at Invoice PH. 272·8504 Ends  For a good time call Buzzwoman # 2725 and wish her Happy Birthday. Yes it's true I Swuitesa was born 19 years agol Call # 2725 and wish her a happy birthday I THE GRIND THE GRIND WED-13· CHIPS·10;3o-?· FAI-15-BAIDGETTES· 8TIL1(}9() CENT CANS MON-18· BAIDGETTES·t O.CLOSE..90CENTBIG DRAFTS VoteUMOC 'Cause beauty is onlyskln deep Things are gening UGLY Vote UMOC LaFortune Info Booth Mon·Fri 7·9 MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHT WATCH MOVIES ON THE QUAD FRIDAY APRIL 15 FREE MOVIES"""FAEE MOVIES THIS FRIDAY OUTSIDE ON MOD QUAD HELP CELEBRATE PE-PW WEEK  "SENIORS: GOING TO A NEW CITY? CAREER AND PLACEMENT SEA· VICES CAN HELP YOU FIND OTHER N.D. GRADS GOING TO THE SAME CITY. STOP BY AND SIGN UP NOW." "SENIORS: QDINQ TO A NEW CITY? CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· VICES CAN HELP YOU FIND OTHER N.D. QRADS GOINQ TO THE SAME CITY. STOP BY AND SIQN UP NOW." Have an opinion on The Task Force Reports?? We want you on The Campus PerspecWes talkshow Thursday, April 21 From 10 to 11 p.m. On WVFI·AM 640 Please leave you name and number In the News Director's mailbox In the WVFI office By Tuesday, April 19, 5 p.m. SENIOR MONTH 1988 IS STAATINGIII SENIOR MONTH 1988 IS STAATINGIII GET PSYCHED AND CONTINUE THE FESTIVITIES MONDAY AT CHIP'S $2 PITCHERS AND $1 SEABAEEZES STAAT THE FINAL MONTH WITH A BANGI!t STAAT THE FINAL MONTH  S. Padre '88 1 Chuck, If you don't stop, we're going to eat your bus 2 I see a bridge 3 Do you do aerobics? 4 What's wrong with your face? 5 Gyrating head· lights 6 We do things a "ttle differently in Indiana than here In Texas. 7 Sleaze Sisters take their show on the road. Des· tination: Brownsville 8 My My 9 Excuse me, you have 80mething on your beck. 10 I only eat Funyons when I'm studying P·Chem or drunk 11 Typical NO party-but better yet no shoes 12 South Padre-the only place you can get a tan and frostbite on the same day 13 There's a fine line between pleasure and pain Tall Pat· Saw you yesterday, but left too shy to say more than hello. Would love to see you again 80me time. Maybe I'll teach you to say "draw" right?l ·CW in PW YO, LAURA I BET YOUR BOYFRIEND WOULDN'T QET YOU A PERSONAL FOR YOUR B-DAYI LONG LIVE IROC.Z'a A DAQO T'a HAPPY B·DAY ·YOUR ITALIAN SLAVE  THE DORKS THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 9 KICKIN' BANDS BE THERE/ STEPN CENTER Bpm HEY SPIKE & CHRISTINE GET READY FOR A WILD NIGHT! P.S. IF YOU TWO GET THE SAME BED WERE COMING DRUNK! SENIOR TRIPII SENIOR TRIPII SENIOR TRIPII Sign-up Monday and Tuaaday In LaFortunellll DON'T FOR­GETII  
b81ha. Rudy lor Fall occupancy. seeotno. plua utllltlea. 232·23416. Room lor 4 atudenta. Near c.mpua. Ready lor Fall occupancy. $440tno. plua utllltiM. 232·23416.  April 30th FEDERAL, STATE a CIVIL SERVICE Joba $18,4 to $89,891. Immediate openlngal call JOB LINE 1·5111-'1511­3811 Ext. F 7114, 24hr.  BE A PART OF THE BEST WEEK ON MOD QUAD JOIN THE PASQUEAILLAS' FOR SPIRIT WEEK COME SEE MOVIES 8:30 FRIDAY ON THE QUAD  WITH A BANG\\! ZETO and the HEAT·ONS Saturday night ZETO and the HEAT·ONS Don't miss ltl ZETO and the HEAT·ONS  ................................................................ ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLACK STEPH T. RUB MY BACKI HERE'S TO A GREAT SATURDAY NIGHTI  CLASS OF '811 WATCH CAMPUS MAIL FOR INFO ABOUT SENIOR TRIPI SIGN-UPS ON MONDAY AND TUES. DAY!Ill THE HORSE RIDES AQAIN  
GREAT STUDIO SUBLET II Spacious. wall· to-wall carpeting, new kitchen. Avail·  COKE IS IT  Saturday night at Theodore's  ..................................................  -DEADHORSE lonlghl-41:00 atapan  
able May 15. Perfect for grad. student or prof. Qu1et location, w' laundry facilities, etc. Call 2B9·n09  FOR SALE: A pair of Nord1ca ski boots.  CEDRIC FIGARO CEDRIC FIGARO CEDRIC FIGARO CEDRIC FIGARO  ALEX  9:30  HARRY NEIDIG...HAAAY NEIDIG WE HAVE SOMETHING FOR YOUI! WE HAVE THE JOCKEY, WHEAE'S THE HORSE?  MAY THE HORSE BE WITH YOU!  
STUDIO APARTMENT TURTLE CREEK S33~0NTH CALL 2n·4842 TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE i=OA SUMMER RENT ,;Au 283·1606 ERIC  size B. Call Jenn at 2975. SENIORS: Moving t~··&:·C~i...i~~-a per­manent job? Call me if you need a room· mate. Jim 1912.  CEDRIC FIGARO FOR UMOC HE'S AEALL Y UGLY, GUYS\\  CHEER UPI Things aren't that bad, honest\ Ton1ght is bound to be tun· regardless of where we are. Do me a favor. please? SMILEII Fred  HARRY NEIDIG WE HAVE SOMETHING FOR YOU I We have the JOCKEY, wllerw'a the horu?  WANTED ONE ARAB SHEIK FROM A HOT COUfifTRY ... OR IS IT ONE HOT ARAB FROM A CHIC COUNTRY?  

~-----­
Friday, April 15, 1988
page 12 The Observer 
Irish battle for division title Sports Briefs 
By STEVE MEGARGEE the playoffs. If the Irish take weren't intense," said Murphy. Assistant Sports Editor three games, they will clinch a "We'll be back. Guys like Pel-, 
playoff position and a Notre tier, Pesavento and Hutson 
With a Midwest Collegiate Dame sweep would almost come to hit, and they will hit." Conference playoff berth on the guarantee the Irish the right to Entering this week, Peltier line, the Notre Dame baseball host the MCC tournament May held a .358 batting average, and 
team hosts Detroit for two 20-21. he leads the MCC with 15 doubleheaders this weekend at But the Irish, who had won doubles. Hutson leads the MCC Jake Kline Field. 14 of their last 17 games before in home runs (10) and runs 
"Detroit's a solid baseball this week, have dropped their batted in (35). Pesavento is team," said first-year Irish C?­last two to fall to 20-15. Notre tops in the conference with 40 ach Pat Murphy. "Their Dame lost to Purdue 11-7 on runs scored and 18 stolen bases. 
strength is pitching, and they Tuesday and were shut out by The Irish lineup will be mis­have good lefthanded pitching, Northwestern 5-0 on Wednes­sing second baseman Mike which always gives us prob­day. Moshier this weekend. The lems." "I'm disappointed in our per­junior from Rome, N.Y., suf­
Both Saturday and Sunday's formances this week," said fered a sprained wrist duringtwinbills are slated to start at Murphy. "Both times we didn't the Northwestern game and 12 noon. have our heads on straight, and will be sidelined for the Detroit 
Notre Dame (20-15) cur­I think our players know that. series. rently holds a 6-2 conference We'll get it out of our system." Senior Steve Skupien will record, while Detroit (13-10) The shutout against replace Moshier at second has not yet played any MCC Northwestern looks particu­base. Skupien, the captain of games. The other two teams in larly foreboding, especially if the team, started at third base the MCC's Northern Division, the Irish are going to be facing during the beginning of the Dayton and Xavier, have lefthanded pitchers this season, but he lost his starting posted respective conference weekend. Pat Pesavento, Dan job to freshman Mike Coss marks of 2-2 and 0-4. The top Peltier and Tim Hutson, who after a slow start. two teams from the division ad­are the three leading Notre vance to the MCC playoffs. Dame hitters all are lef­"It's time for Skupien to have 
A Notre Dame split in the thanded. his effect on this year's team," four-game series will virtually "We just ran up against a said Murphy. "He will make guarantee the Irish a spot in good pitcher on Wednesday and his mark right now." 
Lacrosse hosts tough Dennison 
By PETE LaFLEUR pull and defenses designed to matter as much to me as long Sports Writer shut him down. as we keep winning,'' Olmstead "Obviously we will need said. "When it comes to scoringThe Notre Dame lacrosse major contributions from the it's always the attacks that get team faces its toughest test of whole team," Irish coach Rich the print, but it is really a trib­the season when it hosts O'Leary said. "But in many ute to the whole team." Denison at Krause Stadium games John has carried the Olmstead does already hold Saturday at 1:30. burden under high pressure sit­one Irish record, though. He The Irish fell to the Big Red uations and has been there scored nine points (five goals 
14-8 last season and trail the when we've needed him." and four assists) against Mic­series 2-6. They will be seeking Olmstead's official statistics, higan to set the Irish single­to set school records by win­which exclude two goals and game scoring record. ning their tenth game of the three assists in the team's win 
season and eighth in a row. But over Windy City's club team, 
The NMMC Equestrian club will hold a year-end meeting and picnic on Sunday at 2 p.m. at Leanne's. To nominate club officers for next year, call Steve Hayes. Call Theresa at x2805 for more information. -The Observer 
Irish Spring Runs are scheduled for Saturday, April 16, at 11 a.m. Paricipants can pay a $4 registration fee at the NVA office or can pay $5 the day of the event. The Irish Spring Runs will include both a three-mile run and a six-mile run. The race starts west of Stepan Center, and t-shirts and door prizes will be given out to partici­pants. -The Observer 
The ND Porn Pon squad will hold tryouts for next year's squad beginning on Sunday. The first instructional clinic will be held from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Sunday at the Rockne gym. All NDSMC women interested in being part of the squad are encouraged to attend. Any questions should be directed to Erica Hinkle at 283-2493 or Melissa Howe at 284-5099. -The Observer 
The women's rugby team is looking for someone to help coach the team. Anyone interested who has playing or coaching experience should call Lauren at x3560 or Kathy at x4067. -The Observer 
to set those marks the 9-1 Irish project to a 38 goal and 58 point must beat what could be the season. The Irish single-season 

Attention Sophomores 
best team in the Midwest. highs in those categories are 42 and 64, respectively. Unfortun­
Notre Dame will be counting ately for Olmstead, he will miss 
on a typically productive game the season finale against Ohio 
from junior attackman John State to take the MCAT's and 
Place your ring order before you leave 
Olmstead. Olmstead leads the thus may fall just short of set­Irish in scoring with 28 goals ting the marks. 
for SUMMER VACATION. This will 
and 16 assists but has been "Although it's always great slowed recently by a muscle to set a record, it doesn't really 
assure you of having it when you 
ND'61

.... 
ironwood wine and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors (219) 272-7144 
1725 North Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 



u • s • c 
FOR THANKSGIVING 
PACKAGE INCLUDES: 
• 
Round Trip Air Fare 

• 
4 Nights in the Anaheim Marriott 

• 
Transportation to and from the game and a ticket to the game 

• 
N.D. parties at the hotel 

• 
etc. 


SIGN-UPS: 

MONDAY, APRIL 18 I*Final payments will be due Student Union Board Office when we return in the Fall. Haggar Student Center SMC 6:00-8:00 P.M. 
I 
TOTAL COST: 
$400.00 estimated $150.00 deposit up-front on the 18th 
OPTIONAL ACTIVITIES: 
(may require additional funds) 
• 
Disneyland 


• 
San Diego's Sea World 

• 
Universal Studios 

• 
Hollywood Movie Star's Homes 

• 
6 Flags Magic Mountain 

• 
etc. 





Lunches star1in& at••••••.$3.45 Dinnen star1in& at••••••• $4.7 
Friday, April 15, 1988 
The Observer 

Pony Express 
•

Backfield will run aga1n 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
It's no secret that Notre 
Dame has a group of 
thoroughbreds coming in next 
fall's group of freshmen, but 
the backfield stable already 
has its share of horses. 
The Irish backfield, often referred to as the Pony Ex­press last season, ranked 14th in the nation in rushing, and nearly everybody who contrib­uted to that standing will be back somewhere. 
Mark Green, who led the team with 861 yards, will most likely be spending most of his time outside at flanker, but still figures to get some rushing op­portunities. 
That leaves the brunt of the tailback duties to Tony Brooks and Ricky Watters, both com­ing off solid freshmen seasons (Brooks 262 yards, 4.9 avg., Watters 373 yards, 5.4 avg.). 
"This spring and the winter workouts have been very good for me," says Brooks. "The big thing it has done is to really help me familiarize myself with the offensive scheme. I'm a lot better prepared. 
"The winter workouts also helped me a lot physically. It's helped my speed, my strength and especially my endurance." 
"They've had very good springs," says Running Backs coach Jim Strong. "They've gotten a chance to get a lot of repetitions and have really im­
..•••••••••••••••••••••••..11 drive back to campus.
No. 8. To see professional athletes whose heads aren't bloated. 
Most of these kids have major-league ambitions, and a few will make it someday. Most are thrilled about the facility, 
THE 1989 DOME 
is now accepting applications for the following 
positions: 
Academics Editor Sports Editor 
Assistant Academics Editor Assistant Sports Editor 
Copy Editor Extracurricular Editor Assistant Copy Editor Assistant Extracurricular Editor 
Events Editor Business Manager Assistant Events Editor Photographers Assistant Hall Life Editor 
Assistant Seniors Editor 
Applications can be picked up in the Office of Student Activities on the 3rd floor of LaFortune. They must be returned no later than 
12:00 p.m. on Monday, April 18. 
proved on the basics. Right now I'd rank it as a dead heat." 
Also running at tailback is Antwon Lark, another fresh­man. Strong says although the position is brimming with tal­ent, that doesn't mean that one of next year's freshmen can't make a contribution. 

"With the schedule we play, before it's done, you're going to need to have three tailbacks who can produce for you," he says. "Last year we used three and if someone steps forward next fall and earns some playing time, he'll get an op­portunity to help us." 
At fullback, Pernell Taylor is gone, but Anthony Johnson (366 yards, 4.7 avg.) and Braxston Banks (212 yards, 3.9 avg.) return as does Joe Jarosz, who has had an impressive spring. 
"Johnson and Banks have done a great job this spring as far as giving a great effort on the field and also assuming a leadership role," Strong says. "They've come to practice and instead of just performing, they've also realized they are the veterans back there even though they'll be just juniors and really set an example." 
"We've been around for two years now," says Johnson. "I think both of us have con-

Or 
'(#~~

of 20-,r. Discount 
except sale items 

N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
sciously tried to do what we can 
to help the other guys out since 
we are kind of the old men back 
there. The guys are all really 
hard workers so we have faith 
that they're doing their jobs. 
We just have to work to­
gether." 
Experimentation has been prevalent this spring, and the backfield has had its share. Along with Green's move to flanker, Watters has also run some plays from flanker and Banks has spent some time at tailback. 
"It's always good to have the versatility available if you ever need it," Strong says. "Braxston was a tailback in high school and he could be a good physical runner from that spot. Watters is so explosive, we might want to use that abil­ity a little more in our passing game. We just want to get the right chemistry out there." 
The running game took the limelight last season when Tony Rice and his running style took over at quarterback. Strong says that the running game must be strong no matter who's taking the snaps. 
"We try to build the offense to be successful with whoever's at · quarterback," he says. "We've got to be able to do the job with any quarterback, we can't just change everyone and change the whole offense when we make a quarterback change." 
Coveleski 
continued from page 16 
foul territory. Add clean stands and a natural grass field and, well, you've got to check it out. 
No. 9. They sell beer. 
Where can you have a few cold ones and watch a live sporting event (at least legal­ly) at Notre Dame? Those pres­sbox reports indicated that many Notre Dame students already have taken advantage of this opportunity. Just re­member to bring your ID, and have someone in condition to 

Tony Brooks and most of last season's "Pony Express" backfield will return next In 1988 to pile up the yardage. Although undergoing some changes, the tailbacks and fullbacks have kept the offense moving this spring. 
Business as usual 
Thuradoly'• R•ull• 

STEPAN 1 We B Bricklayers over Digger Phelps ... by 16 The Explosive Package and Boomer over Mind the Gap by 7 Check the Ice over LA Law by 5 Wally and Julie... over Man In A Canoe Over­board (23-21) 
STEPAN 2 Son of 211 over A SMiC Chick, Doormat... by 
4 

Pop a Shot over Conjunction Junction by 15 Pump Up The Volume over Michael, Cool J ... by 6 I'll Play, No I Won't over Hardles House Tiki by 
10 
STEPAN 5 

Kinkoids over Plugs Players by 14 Lou's 2 OB's over No Blood, No Foul by 7 Yo...What Up? over 5 Guys Who Sing by 16 Air Doggers over D3T2 by 12 
STEPAN 8 The Skirts over The MBA's by 3 Rich, Dan, and 3 other... over Red Death and The Jammin Provost by 3 
they love playing the game, 
and it shows. 
No. 7. No Chicago teams 
play. 

Baseball fans have had a di­
lemma here in the past. Nei­
ther Chicago team is usually a 
contender. This year is ex­
pected to be no exception. And 
even though the South Bend Sox 
are Chicago's farm team, the 
locals are off to a quick start 
at 4-2. The lineup is potent and 
a lot of runs should be crossing 
the plate. 
No.6. They sell beer. No. 5. It's better than watch­ing girls play. 
If that sounds trite, it's not meant to be. The last profes­sional ball team to play in the area was the South Bend Blue Sox, a girls' squad that played in the 1950s. They pitched un­derhand for awhile, and then switched to sidearm. 
No. 4. There are no parietals. 
Hans, Frans, and 3 other ... over 5 Guys with a Suburban by 3 Johnny Wads Last Shot over Kiss of Death Tongue by 5 
BOOKSTORE II Ferrence... over La Came Caliente by 3 6 Guys The! Can't Add over All The Presidents Menllby3 Hahn's Funeral Home over 3 Bimbos... by 16 
BOOKSTORE 10 Murph & The Magic Tones over The New Tumbleweeds by 15 Debi Gibson ... over Surf's Up by 7 5 Guys Who Can Lick ... over Dantley... by 14 Tequila White Lightening over AFROTC... by 16 
LYONS 11 SOS over Still Friends of Chris Nanni by 7 Boinkers over Tank & the Fun Boys by 4 Adwork's All Stars over Off The Glass by 5 A Bad Dude ... over Meet the Semo by 17 
LYONS 12 Larvae: Boon or Bane over Yikes... by 18 Swaggart, Reagan... over Dogged By The Steering Commiltee by 19 Red Red Wine over Forfeit by 13 
Minor-league baseball 
games often run longer than 
the average big-league game 
because a lot of players get 
looked at, the pitchers don't 
last as long and the occasional 
wild, error-filled innings are 
bound to drag things out. So, if 
you bring a date, you can spend 
more time enjoying reasons 
No. 9, 6 and 3. 
No. 3. They sell beer. 
No. 2 The fifth-inning stretch. 
That's when a few girls clad 
in red dash around the infield 
and sweep off the bases with 
straw brooms. They're not the 
Dancin' Irish, but they've got 
potential and have drawn some 
big cheers from the crowd. 
And the No. 1 reason for Notre Dame students to see the South Bend White Sox play: Coveleski Stadium is easier to find than Carroll Hall. 
Just take 33 downtown and onto Main Street. Go through town, past the hospital and the library, and take a right on South Street. It's right there. Plenty of parking on South and Lafayette. 
Tickets range from $3 to $5, and the crowds since opening day have exceeded 1,000. If you want to scout your team's farm squad, other teams in the Mid­west League include (parent club in parentheses if name is different): 
Appleton Foxes (Kansas City), Kenosha Twins, Beloit Brewers, Rockford Expos, 
Wausau Timbers (Seattle), Madison Muskies (Oakland), Burlington Braves, Clinton Giants, Cedar Rapids Reds, Quad City Angels, Waterloo In­dians, Peoria Chiefs (Cubs) and Springfield Cardinals. 



-----~---------------~-------___, 
page 14 The Observer Friday, April 15, 1988 
Dasso captains women's tennis Track team co'!lp~tes 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 

Following a successful four­game homestand, the Notre Dame women's tennis team returns to the road one last time this weekend as it squares off against Southern Illinois-Edwardsville and Mankato State. 
The Irish netters (10-13) have been on a tear as of late, taking three of their last four matches, including last weekend's victories over Toledo and Purdue. 
Notre Dame takes to the courts Friday at 3 p.m. to face SIU-Edwardsville (13-4), and then comes back out against Mankato State (2-8) at 9 a.m. Saturday. The team must sweep this weekend's matches if it is to finish the season at the .500 mark. 
As the season concludes for the Irish, the curtain comes down on the collegiate career of senior captain Michelle Dasso. Since her arrival at Notre Dame in 1984, Dasso has played an integral part in the growth and development of the Irish tennis program. 
"Michelle is the team leader for us, " says coach Michele Gelfman. "She has really come a long way in the three years I've been here." 
Dasso first picked up a ten­nis racquet at the age of nine, 
'Naugh, Grace lead IH lax 
By MARK O'SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Buoyed by an influx of players who came up through the high school ranks and the burgeoning popularity of a traditionally Eastern Seaboard-dominated sport in the Midwest, interhalllacrosse 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 

Steinberg faked Hoosier defen­s~man John Paul at midfield to gain a two-on-one advantage in the Indiana zone. Steinberg passed to midfielder Steve LaVigne who headed it in the net at the 51:59 mark. 
The Hoosiers controlled the majority of the offensive action in the second half, but the Irish had chances to win the game late with four corner kicks. 
Indiana took the lead in the first half when junior midfielder Han Roest walked in all alone on the right wing and found freshman forward Ken Snow all alone in front of the net. Snow, the nation's leading scorer in the fall season, deflected the pass into the net at the 31:30 mark. 
The Hoosiers controlled most of the offensive action during the latter part of that first half. Notre Dame finally pushed the ball into its end at the 38: 00 mark, but could not put anyth­ing together. 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 

Death Tongue in a battle of two evenly matched teams, 21-16; sleeper Hahn's Funeral Home embalmed 3 Bimbos and the Horses 21-5; Red Red Wine squeezed Forfeit 21-8; and Paul Gruber's seven points lifted Kinkoids to a 21-7 win over Plug's Players. 
when her parents signed her _up for a local par~s and recreation program m her hometown of Sunnyside, Washington. As a freshman in high school, Dasso won the Wash­ington state singles title, and was ranked number one in the state. The following year, she moved to California, where she led Miraleste High School to undefeated seasons in 1981 and 1983. The 5-9 senior has gone through a number of adjust­ments and several periods of transition in her four years at Notre Dame. She has seen the tennis program grow from a NCAA Division II program into one that is competitive at the Division I level. "When I came in as a fresh­man, the program was very different, " Dasso recollects. "We were Division II, but we were good. I mean, we were number two in the nation. "The big growth period for me came between my sopho­more and junior years, be­cause that's when I was named captain. A lot of players graduated on the team, and now I was consid­ered the older upperclas­sman." During that critical junior year, Dasso was co-captain along with Tammy Schmidt. This season, Dasso retained 
is healthier than ever before. scores may be settled. In large 
Participation, competition, · dorm competition, undefeated and attendance hurtle higher Grace (5-0), having achieved a as the playoffs near in the most thin margin of victory over hotly-contested title hunt yet. Flanner 1, attempts to stave off 
Varsity defenseman Kevin a challenge by Morrissey ( 4-1), O'Connor, hailing from the lax­which fell to the same pesky mad New York region, coaches Flanner unit. Cavanaugh's top-ranked small "Morrissey is a fine team," dorm entry and doubles as a said Craig Merrigan, Grace league referee. Witnessing captain. "The depth of our ex­about half the league's games, perienced freshmen has really O'Connor observed, "lnterhall bolstered us overall, and John lacrosse is thriving this year. ISchoen and Mike Locasio have It has grown from 8-on-8 to sparked our defense. But I'm regulation 10-on-10 due to its ex­watching Off-Campus (2-2)citement. Fans get psyched, closely," he noted, alluding to players get pumped, crowds the Crime's startling elimina­
get bigger--it's contagious." tion of defending championOnly a handful of games Cavanaugh in last year'sremain prior to the playoff ac­playoff on their way to the IH tion in which a number of title. 

her captaincy and assumed the_ adde_d res~onsi~ili~y which the title carries With It. "In some ways, I was taking on a new role, and I felt more responsibility, " says Dasso. "I was going to have to set more examples (for the younger players)· I think it's really important to have someone on the team who can speak up and be a mediator between the players and the coach." Life on the road is certainly nothing new to Notre Dame's number two singles player. Following a season which in-eluded ten straight matches away from home, it is not surprising that Dasso will once again be packing her bags and heading for Chicago for her first excursion into the business world. Although she is determined to get on with her life, Dasso admits that Notre Dame will always hold a special place in her heart. "Looking back on the four years," reminisces Dasso, "I don't think I'd change anyth­ing. All the sacrifices I made were definitely worth it. "Even though I'm not going to be here next year, I still feel like I can always say that I was a part of that growth period, of that transition, and that's something I will re­member for the rest of my life."· 
in stanf0 r d I n v It at I 0 n a I 
By BILL STEGMEIER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field team will participate in the Stanford Invitational at Stanford University this weekend. Schools representing the Pac-10, including Washing­ton and San Diego State, will also attend the invitational. 
irish head coach Joe Piane expects his team to rise to the level of competition at the In­vitational, which will feature Andre Phillips, one of the best intermediate hurdlers in the country. 
"As a team, we expect to do well,"Piane said. "One particu­lar event we should do well in is the javelin, featuring fresh­man Ryan Mihalko." 
Other events where the Irish could fare well are the steeplec­base and the 5000-meter run. Freshman Ryan Cahill has already recorded a time of 9:02 in the chase. In the 500Q, Notre Dame will have three con­tenders in senior co-captain Dan Garrett, junior Ron Markezich and sophomore Mike O'Connor. 
Freshman Jeff Smith, who has competed at both long and triple jump this season, will concentrate his efforts on the long jump this weekend. 
One trackster who has shown steady improvement in his per­formance *s freshman high jumper John Cole. Cole, whose best jump in high school was 6'8", has already jumped 6'10 314" in college. He attributes his success to the conditioning pro-
JufieSc 
grams at Notre Dame, which include a fall session. 
"I think the workout pro­grams we follow here are more intense than in high school," Cole stated. 
Cole, who qualified for both the indoor and outdoor IC4A's, hopes to jump seven feet this weekend and for the remainder of the season. 
"Right now, jumping seven feet is a kind of mental block. With the help of Coach Doug Snyder and workout partner 
Rob  Graham,  maybe  I  can  
overcome  it,"  Cole  main­ 
tained.  

You do not have to tell soph­omore pole vaulter Chris Com­ponovo about overcoming ob­stacles. Last year, at the fifth indoor track meet, Componovo broke his leg. This year, he has vaulted 15'3" and has also qualified for the IC4A's. 
"I'm happy with the progress I've made this year, not having jumped in over a year. Yet, I'm hoping to vault 16 feet before the end of the season in May. I've already jumped 15'6" in practice," Componovo said. 
Mter the Stanford Invitation­al, the Irish participate in the Indiana Intercollegiates the following weekend. 
WANTED TO BUY-Bust of Knute Rockne or other N.D. greats-by old t :.D. Fan. send descriptiom and price to BOX f 50, Ever reen Park IL 60642 
Love, Mom, Dad and Andrew 
ANNOUNCING A NEW CONCENTRATION IN GENDER STUDIES 
Introductory and Advanced Courses Including: 
Engi291A:  Gender and Society in American Lit.  
Engl386:  American Authors: Women in the  
Nineteenth Century  
Soc 342:  Marriage and the Family  
Phil232:  Women: Alternative Philosophic  
Perspectives  
Phil230:  Philosophical Ideas in Art  

For further information contact: 
Sonia Gernes  (English)  356 O'Shag  
Kathleen Biddick Hames Walton  (History)1 (English)  456 Decio 309 O'Shag  
Janet Kourany  (Philo)  623 Hesburgh  
Library  
Christia Mercer  (Philo)  321 Decio  


Friday, April 15, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
Campus 
Friday 
9:30a.m. : Conference on Art and Politics in Late Medieval and Early-Renaissance Italy, "Italy and the Kings," by Julian Gardner, University of Warwick, and Jonathan Boulton, University of Notre Dame, Annenberg Auditorium. 
11:15 a.m.: Department of Economics Public Policy Workshop with John Palmer, Urban Institute; Room 131 Decio Hall. Noon: Kellogg Institute Seminar, "Journalism During the Transition to Democracy in Brazil," by Carlos Eduardo Lins da Silva, Woodrow Wilson Inter­national Center for Scholars, Washington D.C., Room 105 Law School. 2 p.m.: Conference on Art and Politics in Late Medieval and Early Renaissance Italy, "Models of Rulership," by Joanna Woods-Marsden, UCLA, Richard Trexler, SUNY, and Joseph Berrigan, University of Georgia, Annenberg Auditorium. 3 p.m.: SMC Softball vs. Butler University, SMC Softball Diamond. 7 & 9:30p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Matewan," Annenberg Auditorium. Saturday 
9 a.m.: Men's tennis vs. Indiana State, Courtney Courts. 9:30a.m.: Conference on Art and Politics in Late Medieval and Early Renaissance Italy, "Rome and the Papacy," by Charles Stinger, SUNY, and Jonathan Riess, University of Cincinnati, Annenberg Auditorium. 2 p.m.: Conference on Art and Politics in Late Medieval and Early Renaissance Italy, "Venice," by Rona Goffen, Duke University, and Debra Pincus, University of British Columbia, Annenberg Auditorium. 3 p.m.: Tennis vs. Ohio University, Courtney Courts. Sunday 
4 p.m.: Department of Music Concert, Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra Spring Concert, Washington Hall. 7 p.m.: SMC Department of Music Student Recital, Karen Lee, French Horn, 
Little Theatre. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Grilled Cheese Fried Fish Platter Broccoli & Cheese Potato Boats Linguini & Vegetables 
Comics 
Bloom County 
CIJN6f(ATU.IITI()N5 
ON~!? 
V.P NOM/NimoN, 
Ol'f/5 ... 
Calvin and Hobbes 
M\J(I.\ t<S I f>..WI<EC\f\1£ 'ttl\JR ()t\tl<., l IXl~l i\.\11'\¥.. 
I NITD 1\~ \MI\Gt. 
(ONS\)\.\1>-NT. • 
Saint Mary's 
Fish Parisienne Deep Dish Pizza Vegetable Kebobs Deli Bar 
Berke Breathed 


8Y'ffl€WAY,

rt? liKe Y(J(J 70 J"AY Affill ~ATA 5f'ECI~ FfAVf1-I?AI5fN6 CCWC€/?TrM Of?GI!N!ZfN~ 1?J !JCNUIT 
I t>RUER \0 LET 1\-\E 
Bill Watterson I1\1 11-lf\T CAS£I '' DAO BJRIED IN 
'«))J'LL l-lr>..'Jt Li\1'\DS\.1DE! . D£EDS 'St£AK FOR 
'tJ\S\)()1-'\ \:fr tv\~ 'tJORtlS A\'ID 
~ LDT CfT\1'1\E JUB\LJ>.,I{T 11-\RlJ~GS "WH~\SE\."1/ES. 
10 WRI"tt. '(QJR fiLL STR£E\S! MEMOIRS. sru~~EO Ff\1\-\ER 
1\'ICOOSOlfi.B\..£­

' DEM~Qs RECO\INT!" 
~I ontr I>rthoN Film Festival 
.. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Lively party 5 Luxurious 9 Record 

13 Staggering 15 Charles' dog 16 Winglike 17 Headdress 18 Look over 19 Osculate 20 At close 
quarters 22 Famous II. 

family 23 Attend 24 Select group 26 Rock plant 30 Clique 31 Celebes ox 32 Aware of 35 Divide 39 Be frugal 41 Lubricate 42 Hemmed 
and­43 Former lt. 
coin 44 Impediment 46 Hawaiian 

goose 47 -dixit 49 Hose mishap 51 Rigid 53 Dirt 55 Leftovers 56 Arrive 62 Gr. peak 63 Freight 
allowance 64 Veranda 65 Br. gun 66 -podrida 67 Liquid 
measure in 
Eng. 68 Minister (to) 69 List 70 Chaps 

DOWN 1 Balneation 2 Song for one 3 A Connery 4 Drove 5 Former Turk. 
title 6 Award 


1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
04/15/88
All Rights Reserved 
7 Musial 8 Ger. composer 9 Assume 
charge 10 Tilting 11 Imitation 
gems 12 Gaelic 14 Shaping 
machine 21 Wine: pre!. 25 Whip 26 Colleen 27 Division word 28 Wind 29 Together 30 Drink 33 Beak 34 Stannum 


36 Filled with veneration 

37 Lalique 38 Ger. river 51 Style 57 Pedestal part40 The best 52 Ruhr city 58 Acclaim 45 Satiate 53 Odor 59 Pilaster 48 Zone 54 Mine find 60 Aromatic plant50 Reef 55 Heavenly -61 "-lrae" 
Far Side Gary Larson 
Seconds before his ax fell, Farmer Hal suddenly noticed the chicken's tattoo -the tattoo that marked them both as brothers of an ancient Tibetan order sworn to loyalty and mutual ald. 


.
Friday, .·. t1J 1\le·~~~~~.'\; 
Saturday, 
AND NOW April15 FOR 
SOMETHING COMPLETEt: DIFFERENT 
Shows at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. 
April 16 


Catch Monty Python's Founder Graham Chapman at O'Laughlin Auditorium April 24th. Ticket.s available 3-5 PM Week~ays Baseme~t of LaFortune 
L____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __ 
.. 
Sports 
Friday, April 15, 1988
page 16 

r -~-• -' _; • ~ --~ ~ ~~-' • " \ : " ' ~ -r ~ .... -· ., ,,. -_">0>-.. ... .,,.
r 

Bookstore continues with an added dimension 


Germans fall in women's opener 
By JANE SHEA slack from next week,"said Barbara Tull, who is in charge of the women's
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
tournament. 

Women's Bookstore Basketball got There were 66 teams scheduled to under way yesterday afternoon on the play in the tournament this year. Two Saint Mary's basketball courts behind prelimenary games were played to Angela Athletic Center. 
start the main rounds with 64 teams. 
In prelimenary play, Scound Queens beat If He Liked You He've Asked You
WOIENSBB 

out a Year Ago aka Four Smarties and a Dumb-Dumb 21-13. 
In regular play Hoosier Hysteria was 
Five teams of women and one victorious over We Do Lac, 15-5. The team of pseudo-women. East Ger-Educators won their game since Five man All-Star team turned out to be five Women Who Had It did not show. guys dressed as women. Shot at the Bar cooled Cinq Chaud 
The East Germans had to forfeit the Lyons by a score of 21-2. game, but Five Reasons to Go to ND There will be no Women's Bookstore 
111616staa • 
played a game with them anyway and over the weekend. Play will resume at the East Germans lost 21-5. 4 p.m. on Monday at the Saint Mary's "We started play today to pick-up the courts. 
Tempers flare as games heat up 
By PETE SKIKO 4 Other Guys who Can Move Their Necks roasted La Carne Caliente 21-18
Assistant Sports Editor 

in front of over 100 fans, but not before 
As Bookstore Basketball XVII some bad blood was formed and some rumbled through the round of 128 yes­red blood was drawn by both teams. terday, you could almost feel the heat Despite shooting only 8-for-26, cap­of tempers flaring. tain Jim Ferrence led his team with 
several clutch shots down the stretch. "I think we're definitely the team to The Observer I Suzanne Poch hate at this point," said Ferrence. "It 
Monk Malloy's All the President's Men II lin, Mike Tafelskl and Rob Kossler led 6 
wasn't exactly a finesse game, and both 
lost In Bookstore action yesterday to 6 Guys to victory. Pete Sklko details all of
teams were doing their share of fouling. 
Guys that Can't Add, 21-19. Mark Laugh-yesterday's action at right.
Some people take advantage of the I'm sure it won't get any better than lack of referees (until next round) and this the farther· we go, though." blasted Michael, Cool J., etc. 21-15; and as long as I can still walk I'll still play." some players take offense at that Plenty of teams expected to chal­Bill Sullivan had 13 points as I'll Play, Mark Laughlin, Mike Tafelski, and taking advantage. lenge for the title saw action yesterday. No I Won't razed Hardie's House Tiki Rob Kossler led 6 Guys with six points 
"It's definitely getting a lot rougher Adworks All-Stars, led by Gary Voce's 21-11. apiece. out there," said assistant commis­six points, polished Off The Glass 21-16; All The President's Men II bid an Elsewhere, Tequila White Lightning sioner Todd Wagenblast. "None of the Lou's 2 QB's and 2 Blind Guys early adieu to the tourney, bowing 21-18 continued its drive for the title with a altercations have been that terribly bludgeoned No Blood, No Foul as Tony to 6 Guys That Can't Add. Monk Malloy 21-6 drubbing of AF ROTC; Bobby serious, but it's about time the refs Rice went 10-for-15, including a thun­was optimistic after the game. Carpenter's 7-for-17 shooting led stepped in and took a little more con­derous slam; Pop a Shot at Senior Bar "There's always next year," said Fr. Yo... What Up? over 5 Guys Who Sing trol." derailed Conjunction Junction, What's Malloy, who shot a rather meager 3-21-5; Mike Leahy had 10 points as 
A prime example of the somewhat Your Function 21-6; despite Mark for-14 for the game. "But then again Johnny Wad's Last Shot licked Kiss of physical play was the last game of the Green's 4-for-23 effort from the field, I've been saying that for the last couple 
see HOOPS, page 14

afternoon on Bookstore 9. Ferrence and his Pump Up the Volume squad still of decades or so. I'll be back ... I figure 


Coveleski, beer and baseball 
This column will be old news to a lot of Notre Dame students in light of reports from the Coveleski Stadium pressbox this past Monday night. 
Many of you got rave reviews from members of the media and South Bend White Sox officials for your support of the city's new minor-league baseball team. The crowd of 4,868 for the Sox home-opener the afternoon before in­cluded a large group of students. 

Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 

The pressbox reports also commended the voices of the Irish fans, particularly the ones down the left-field line. It's encouraging to hear about some hoarse voices from excessive cheering after the Notre Dame basketball season bored the campus into virtual silence. 
There were plenty of Notre Dame jackets in the crowd Monday night as well, as the Sox lost their first Midwest League game and ended a three-game win streak. 
For those who have not yet made the trip downtown, here they are (from the home office on the third floor of LaFortune) the top 10 reasons for Notre Dame students to see a South Bend White Sox baseball game this spring: 
No. 10. The view of the South Bend skyline. 
As you peer over the Stadium walls and between the light fixtures, you take in all the sights. The Valley Amer­ican Bank sign in left, Gates Chevy World in center and 
Seriously though, the ballpark is quite a sight. It reminds you a bit of Royals Stadium in Kansas City with its green walls, the sloping grass behind them and all the room in 
see COVELESKI, page 13 
IU beats Irish in Golden Boot 
"Getting the last one (in the 
and pushed it past goalie
By GREG GUFFEY fall) was more important to Danny Lyons for the score.and PETE GEGEN us," said Indiana head coach 
Notre Dame did not give upSports Writers Jerry Yeagely. "I wasn't however, and a spectacular
overly pleased with our perfor­save by Indiana keeper Juerger
INDIANAPOLIS -It was only mance, but I felt we generated Sommer helped preserve thescheduled as a scrimmage, but the best chances, and I thought IU victory.
it turned out to be a battle to we deserved to win." 
"With the way we played and 
the end. Junior midfielder Hans Roest the way we came back, I
Indiana defeated the Irish scored the winning goal for In­thought we did a good job,"soccer squad 2-1 in overtime diana at the 92:35 mark of the 
said Irish head coach DennisThursday night in the in­first overtime. Matt Isger Grace. The Irish tied theaugural Golden Boot Classic. managed to get the ball to game at 1-1 early in the second 
As the game wore on, the Roest despite being sur­half. Junior midfielder John
revenge factor came into play rounded by three Irish as Indiana wanted to avenge its defenders. Roest took it on the see SOCCER, page 14 
loss at Notre Dame in the fall. run down the center of the box 
Odland sparks men's tennis 
By GEORGE TRAVERS of the season he was on the Harvard, Bayliss moved Od­Sports Writer verge of breaking into the start­land into a starting spot. ing spots. For the year, he holds an im­As the Notre Dame men's During that time Coach Bob pressive 10-2 record at number tennis team heads into the Bayliss relied on Odland to five and six singles. In his last 
twilight of the spring season, it come off the bench and play match on Sunday against Brad­is time to reflect on the players well. ley he manhandled Mark that have contributed to such a Syverud 6-4, 6-0. Odland him­powerful season. One such "Paul has shown me a lot. self feels his game has im­player is freshman Paul Od­He is incredibly positive and proved tremendously this year. land. has always been willing to help "It was a little difficult at 
Odland has moved through the team out in any way possi­first, but now I feel confident. three stages in his first year at ble. He's a real leader and the The team is close but also com­Notre Dame. He began the year guys respect him." petitive. There have been about as a highly touted, yet inexper­six guys vying all season for ienced recruit. Coming to Over the Spring Break trip the last two starting spots. By Notre Dame as the top juniors Odland hit a hot streak that playing well, improving my player in the Northwest, Od­catapaulted him into a starting serve and keeping a positive at­land quickly began to adjust to spot for the remainder of the titude I've earned a chance to college tennis. By the middle season. Mter a huge win at play." 






