Cloudy and wet 
Mostly cloudy by this 
afternoon with a 40 percent 
chance of showers and 
thunderstorms. Warmer with 
IELECTION '88: Complete coverage inside I 
IVIEWPOINT: The Liberian dilemma the high around 60. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 50 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Bush wins big, but coattails too short 
Republicans win White House but not Congress 
Associated Press 
Vice President George Bush was elected the nation's 41st president on Tuesday, sweep­ing past Michael Dukakis to as­sure four more years of Republican rule in the White House. Democrats countered with decisive control of both houses of Congress. 
**"******* 

ELECTION '88 
"Obviously, it feels good," the president-elect said as he received the nation's verdict in his adopted hometown of Hous­ton. Asked when he would get down to the work of forming a government, Bush replied, "Tomorrow." 
Dukakis offered his conces­sion first in a private telephone call, then later at a nationally­televised rally with supporters in Boston. "The nation must work together," he said. 
Bush planned a Wednesday morning news conference and 
then  a  triumphant  return  to  
Washington.  He  received  a  
see BUSH, page 8  


Bayh elected as Democrat governor, first since 1964 
By REGIS COCCIA . Senior Staff Reporter 
INDIANAPOLIS-Democrats are celebarating the victory of Secretary of State Evan Bayh, who last night became the first Indiana elected governor since 1964. 
********* 



ELECTION '88 
Bayh declared victory after Republican Lt. Gov. John Mutz conceded the gubernatorial race at about 10: 15 Tuesday night with 645,863 votes. Bayh led Mutz by nearly 100,000 votes, with 62 percent of precincts reporting. 
But the young Democrat had only respect for his opponent, who served as lieutenant governor under Governor Robert Orr for eight years. 
"I want to take this opportun­ity to say John Mutz is a fine and honorable man. He is a worthy opponent," Bayh, 32, told supporters. "We should take no satisfaction in defeat-
see BAVH, page 9 



elcomes President B 

ND voters brave long lines 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Staff Reporter 
Students who cast their votes at Stepan Center Tuesday received some unexpected time to make their decisions as the wait to vote reached close to an hour from 1 p.m. until the polls closed at 6 p.m. 
********* 

ELECTION '88 
"I thought it would only take about 5 minutes," said sopho­more Tim Rock, who waited in line for 45 minutes. 
The long line baffled election officials who attributed it to a larger voter turnout than ex­pected and by the presence of only one voting machine. 
"They really didn't expect this many people to vote," said election judge Judy Niespod­ziany. "The larger turnout is probably because of the presidential election," she they could at least have given us two machines," said Junior Meg Juliano, who waited in line for an hour. 

"We have no control over the number of machines, the County determines that," said Election Inspector Roy Davis. 
As the 6 p.m. closing time for the poll approached, the ques­tion of whether those in line would be able to cast their vote. 
Br. Thomas Balthazor, Dem­ocratic Precinct Commit­teeman, said, "The doors to the polling place will be closed at six, but everyone who is already in line will have the chance to vote." 
Both Davis and Balthazor said that the long wait was not unique to the Stepan polls. "I've heard that larger tur­nouts than expected are causing long delays throughout the county," said Balthazor. 
The long delay angered many students and caused 
see STEPAN, page 6 

Hiler beats Ward to retain House seat 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
Republican incumbent John Hiler claimed victory Tuesday, defeating Demo­crat Tom Ward in the In­diana 3rd Congressional District race. 
********* 
ELECTION '88 
"We've been waiting two years for this," said Hiler in his acceptance speech at 11 
p.m. Tuesday, referring to his 1986 victory over Ward by just 47 votes. 
Hiler will begin his fifth term as Congressman in Jan­uary. 
Ward made a strong showing, as expected, in traditionally Democratic St. Joseph County. Early results showed Ward as many as Joseph's County his "greatest surpise county," winning 46 percent of the vote as opposed to 41 percent in 1986. 
twenty  percentage  points  
ahead.  
But  Hiler  called  St.  

"This is our best showing in St. Joseph's County since 1980," said Hiler. "I tried to get around the county and show more visibly the con­cern folks felt I hadn't shown in the past." 
Hiler said "we were run­ning a significant lead and doing better than our projec­tions, particularly in St. Joseph's County." 
Hiler gained steadily throughout the evening as results from Elkhart, Starke, Kosciusko and Mar­shall counties were re­ported. Results from 
see HILER, page 6 

-~~  - 
page 2  The Observer  Wednesday, November 9, 1988  

INSIDE COLUMN
IN BRIEF 
Scores of novice anglers are attracted to a course at Valdosta State College that allows students to earn college credits while fishing. Titled Freshwater Fishing 315, the course is filled to capacity each quarter with students who want to bait hooks and reel in catfish, bluegill, perch and bass. "It's a fun course," said instructor Lindy Evans, 45. "The homework is excellent-­meaning go fishing." Before graduating from the course, students make one or two visits to fishponds in the area to tes• their skills. 

OF INTEREST 
Engineering London Pro~ram ~pplica~ions are now available from Dr. E. Jerger m 377 Fttzpatnck or Dr. 
J. Lucey in 371 Fitzpatrick. Applications must be returned by Nov. 30. The summer program is open to all Enginee­ring majors. -The Observer 
A Natural Harvest Lunch will be served tomorrow at the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30-1:30. 
-The Observer 

Right to Life is sponsoring a film entitled "Eclipse of Reason" at the Center for Social Concerns tonight at 7:30 
p.m. -The Observer 
Black Cultural Arts Fashion Show will be holding a general meeting Thursday, Nov. 10 at 9 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall for all interested in trying out for models andbr MC's. Routines and other specific dates will be discussed. Questions, call Delia Lozano, 277-8346 andbr Carla Morris 283-4968. -The Observer 
A Self-paced Swim Program will be offered by Non-Varsity Athletics. An organizational meeting will be held on Monday Nov. 11 at 9 p.m. in the classroom at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Students must register prior to the meeting at the NVA office in the JACC. For information call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Call to Peacemaking Week will sponsor a debate on the Palestinian uprising with Notre Dame scholars from Israel and Palestine tonight at 8 p.m. at Theodore's. -The Observer 
Toastmasters encourages anybody interested in joining to attend our meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 106 Cushing. JoAnn Hill, the new area governor, will be a guest speaker. All current members please attend. -The Observer 
Volunteers Needed to tutor South Bend children for the Neighborhood Study Help program at 3-4 MW (call Mary X1759 or Nick X1785) and at 5-6 MW (call Tom or Mike 287-8716). Tutors also needed at 3:30-4:30 MW and 6-7 Tuesdays. Other times also available. Call Elizabeth X3619 or Tara 237-9533. -The Observer 
The Psychology Club will host its second Dinner­Hour Lecture today at 5:30p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room of South Dining Hall. Mike and Chris Conway will speak on their respective experiences in law school and counseling. -The Observer 
Grace Hall Debates continue tonight at 9 p.m. in the Pit at Grace Hall. The issue: "Unmanned space ex­peditions are safer and more economical than manned space expeditions." -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lectur­ers. Campus announces other events of ge~eral inte~est, free or paid. The Observer reserves the rtght to edtt all submitted materials and determine if and where an­nouncements will be published. -The Observer 





'Rape road' not as safe as many might think 
Crisp fall nights often compel us to renew our appreciation of the beauty and serenity of these campuses on a walk or a run through the grounds. Many of us should stop and think who may be behind us on these ventures. 
There is a prevailing false sense of security in this community that has made us irrespon­sible about our safety. Students from both schools have indicated that these crimes are something that happen in other places like state schools, big cities and dark alleys. That, unfor­tunately, is irrational and immature. 
Students are obviously not exercising the common sense we all claim to possess. No mat­ter how many mailbox flyers we receive plead­ing us to use safety measures, we seem to be tossing them in the can before reading them or after saying yea, yea, we've heard that before, no dub. 
We jog alone in the dark with our Walkmans on volume ten. Football season brings many Saint Mary's students to and from the Notre Dame campus often unaccompanied and often in an altered state of mind. If Saint Mary's students are alone and miss the shuttle, they often take a risk they are repeatedly warned against. They walk alone to their destination on the road between the schools. 
This road is commonly referred to as "rape road" by students because of an incident that occured in the Spring of 1985. A Saint Mary's student, who didn't think it could happen to her, was raped r.ight here between our two campuses just three years ago. 
This is not an issue of campus versus campus or of security's responsibility to students with lighting and escort services. This is not an issue of men versus women. This is an issue of aware­ness and apathy. The 1985 incident is still close enough to our experience as students to stand as an example of what can happen if we are careless. There is a tremendous sense of dis­trust of security on these campuses, which hinders the cooperative relationship that should exist. Disrespect has festered on both sides. Students enjoying freedom from authority in college often rebel with sarcasm and lies when security officers ask questions or enforce rules designed to protect us. Also, students often 
More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 

We are winning. 


make demands on Security beyond the call of duty simply for their convenience. Security officers have offended students' integrity by condescending to them rather than recognizing potential problem situations. Officers have passed students by on the road between the schools without offering assistance. 
Another problem resulting from attacks like rape and assault is that the victims are some­how coerced into silence, either by their own displaced guilt or by their fear of public har­assment. Protecting the offender does not serve the victim nor the public. Mailbox flyers do not hold a candle to the potency of recent example here in our "safe" community. 
When this kind of attack occurs--and it does-­it is our responsibility to ourselves and our com­munity to take measures to amend the situa­tion. We must spark our awareness and jar our common sense to look out for ourselves and the safety of others. 
I~


fsoetETY• 


S.U.B. & THEODORE'S PRESENT: A COMEDY JAM 
HOSTED BY KEVIN MATTHEWS 
THE LOOP'S AM 1000 DJ IN CHICAGO FEATURING ED FIALA as seen on the Tonight show and HBO with special guest 
Anthony Griffin 

Deaign Editor .. .. . . Kathy Huston ND Day Editor .......... Sandy Rotl. Deaign Auiatant .......... Beth Peterson SMC Day Editor.. . ........ Sarah Demel Typeaettera... ... . ...... Mike Kolar Sports Wednesday ........... Theresa Kelly ....................................... Mark Derwent Election '88... .. ........... Regis Coccia Newa Editor... . . .. . Colleen Cronin ........................................ Chris Donnelly Copy Editor ...................... Paul Jackson .......................................... Michelle Dall Sporta Copy Editor... .. .... Pete Gegen ....................................... Matt Gallagher ......................................... Frank Pastor ........................................... Sara Marley Accent Deaigner... .. Jim Barret ....................... Mark McLaughlin Typiat.. ... . .......... Val Poletto ............................. Mike Wells ............................. .. ....... Sue Barten 
ne ot.ner (USPS '99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duri111 cum and vacation periods. ne ot.ner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscnpllons may be purchas­ed for S40 J!C1' year IU' J!C1' semester) by writi111 ne Olleener, P .0. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46'~­ne ot.rf• is a member of ne AModll-' rr-. All reproduction riabts are reserved. 



9:00PM Thurs., Nov. 10 at THEODORE'S FREE ADMISSION W!ND!SMC ID-~~ 
Wednesday, November 9, 1988 The Observer page 3 

HPC discusses undergrad housing 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON In other business, Senate News Staff Report stated that students will be given calendars during The Hall Presidents' Council registration that will tell them met Monday night at of all the events during Spring Pasquerilla West. Semester. Any group wishing 
Karen Flaherty, Executive to have an event included in the Coordinator of Student Life for calendar should see Joe Cas­Student Government, spoke sidy by November 15, 1988. about the housing policy for Chris Lee and Kathleen next year. Maglicic announced there will 
In a letter sent to all under-be aSenior Block Party on No­graduates, except seniors, Stu-vember 18 at the ACC. The dent Residences stated "There Block Party will be open to the can be no guarantee of being entire Notre Dame community assigned to the same hall or as well as to the South Bend even that on-campus housing community. The Block Party will be available" so that next will be like an ethnic festival year's freshmen will not have featuring food from many dif­to be put in temporary housing. ferent countries. Lee stated As it stands now all returning "There will.be lots of food and undergraduates will be put into entertaiment.'' Lee also stated a lottery system to determine that the Block Party will be "a who will be able to live on worthwhile event because we campus next year. Flaherty (students) take a lot from the met with Sr. Jo Giarrante, community but don't give rectress of P.W., and will try much back." to meet with other members of Lastly, the Junior Class will the committee that suggested be going bowling Thursday No­the procedure for on-campus vember 10 at 9:30p.m. at Rea­housing. con Lanes. The Graduate Stu-
Flaherty feels that the "main dent Union will be sponsoring objective (of Student Grad Night at Theodores on No­Residences) is to get students vember 15 to tell students about to committ earlier to staying graduate schools. Liam Canny on campus." She suggests that from Pangborn said represen­students should "read and un-tatives from Aetna will hold a derstand the letter" and then meeting in the Alumni Room of take action and "write letters the Morris Inn Thursday at to Evelyn Reinbold, Director of 7:00p.m. to discuss summer in­Student Residences" to try to ternships. Dress will be infor­get the housing policy changed. mal. 
The Observer ls always lqqklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start working qn yqur newspaper. 

Associated Press 
ABILENE, Texas--A B-1 bomber crashed Tuesday and all four crew members ejected safely, one man getting out seconds before the crash, the Air Force said. 
"All of them were taken to the Dyess hospital and are in good condition,'' said Air Force spokesman Linda Gellnere of Dyess Air Force Base, where the long-range military bom­ber was based. The plane crashed around 3:30 p.m., roughly eight miles northwest of Dyess. 
Lou Paulsen of Abilene, who witnessed the crash, said the plane appeared to be making a normal flight away from the base when smoke starting com­ing out of a left engine as the craft was circling. 
''At first there was just a puff of smoke, then fire," said Paul­sen, who was about two miles away. "It looked like it started to go out, then it flared up big." 
It was the second crash of a B-1B bomber, as the production version of the plane is known. The first, 13 months ago, claimed three lives. 
Paulsen, who is an Air Force reserve member, said the pilot apparently abandoned hope of returmhg to Dyess and decided to ditch the plane in an unpop­ulated area. 
"It banked back toward the left, then they started eject­ing," said Paulsen, who. was watching with his wife. "Three chutescame O!Jt, right afterl!!l­other. Then the plane started veering left into the country. 
"The last parachute came out seconds before the plane crashed in a ravine in an un­populated area," he said. 
The B-1, built by the Rock­well International Corp., is the first new long-range bomber to be produced by the United States in more than 25 years. 


Howtobuildabetterworld. 
. . 
.. en. 
·~ 

Allow us to suggest three ways. MacDraw:~ And the astronomically able Space Edit. The combination of these programs, along aMacintosh'"personal computer, will give students new freedom to create. . For everything from drawing buildings or ing urban landscapes.Th drafting engineering construction plans just as beautifully. 
Which is just another example ofhow Macintosh helps students work smarter, quicker and more creatively. And the beautyof Macintosh is, you don't have to know diddley about computers to use one. So get aMacintosh. 
The world will be abetter place for it. 
'*·Thepower to be your best:" 
Computer Center 
Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
-~--­
Wednesday, November 9, 1988 

page 4 The Observer 
Hesburgh talks on nuclear arms race 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Staff Reporter 
"Now people are saying 'this is insanity' and two unlikely people, Gorbachev and Reagan, said that we should cut these things (nuclear arms) in half right away," said Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity president emeritus, Tues­day afternoon. 
Hesburgh's remarks were part of a lecture titled "Prog­nosis for Peace," in which he discussed the nuclear race of the past and present. The infor­mal talk began in the coffee room of the Center for Social Concerns and due to the size of group the 45 minute question­and-answer session was in the auditorium of the esc. 
"Our goal should be the widest conditioning of an anti­
nuclear instinct  as  potent  as  
hunger,"  said  Hesburgh.  "I  
think  that everybody  has  to  

really get with it and work where you are." 
Hesburgh said that the United States got into the arms race because the Russians did and the Russians got into it be­cause we did. Hesburgh said that there is a myth around that somehow we were always catching up in the arms race. In reality, he said, at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis the U.S. had 5,000 nuclear war­heads and the Russians had 300. 
Hesburgh referred to the eighties as a "burst against war." He said this is due to the fact that for the first time in 44 years we had a treaty that ''pointed us downward rather than upward." "The second thing that happened to us today is something curious happened in the Soviet Union: perestroika," said Hesburgh. 
"We are on the verge of a totally new relationship as two major powers and a lot depends on whether this man (Gorbachev) survives, a lot depends on whether the next president, whoever he is, is willing to sit down and talk," said Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh said that today war is an unthinkable way to solve differences among na­tions. He also said that no ra­tional leader is going to start a nuclear war. 
"It is about as phoney a baloney as you can think up," said Hesburgh in response to a question about the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI). He cited lack of research and the enormous vulnerability of the program as the reasons why it should be cut off. 
The question of universities and their involvement in the 

Secretary of State Shultz makes plea to new president regarding Soviet relations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Secretary of State George Shultz on Tues­day urged the next U.S. presi­dent to be realistic and deal with the Soviet Union when it is in America's self-interest. 
"We shouldn't be afraid to do it," he said in an election day speech to young political leaders from around the world. 
He praised the reform efforts of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and said that, if Gorbachev succeeds, "the So­viet Union will be a very different place." 
In his foreign policy speech, Shultz said Gorbachev and his supporters "deserve credit for recognizing the problems and trying to solve them." 
As a result, he said, "the en­vironment for democratic values, peace and freedom is probably healthier than it has been for some time." 
Within the Reagan adminis­tration, Shultz has played a leading role in promoting arms-control agreements with Moscow and seeking other ways to reduce tensions. 
His speech, which had the earmarks of a valedictory, was aimed at presidential candi­dates Michael Dukakis and George Bush as well as foreign leaders. Shultz said everyone should recognize the dangers of ballistic missiles and chemical weapons proliferation. 
"When we see an opportunity for problem-solving, when there is an opportunity to do something that they (the Soviets) want to do and that we think it is in our interest, in the interest of friends around the world, we shouldn't be afraid to do it. In other words, engage," Shultz said. 
GEORGETOWN LAW CENTER 
Will Be Meeting With Students on 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14 1:30 and 2:15 
Sign up in the Career Placement Office 
testing and development of nu­clear weapons was raised by a member of the audience. Res­burgh said, "The majority of universities, including this one, will not do government re­search, that cannot be pub­lished. We don't do anything that is kept secret except in war time." 
Hesburgh gave a chronologi­cal account of the years follow­ing the invention of "The Bomb." He said, "I think that 
He said whether Bush or Dukakis won, the United States should be vigilant in dealing with the Soviet Union. "We're going to be realistic but, at the same time, pragmatic," Shultz said. 
On a related subject, Shultz said he was confident the Soviets would complete their withdrawal of troops from Af­ghanistan despite an announce­ment last week that the pullout had been suspended. 
The Soviets last spring com­mitted themselves to remove by Feb. 15 the last of the more than 100,000 troops they have had in that country. 
....................... 
• 
• 
it is terribly important not just to see where we are this day, on the verge of electing a new president, with all kinds of im­plications for peace, but also where we came from." 
Hesburgh said that he believes we are on the way to reducing nuclear weapons but that it depends on people get­ting excited enough to not let the movement towards reduc­tion die down. "When enough people get excited, something is going to happen," said Res­burgh. 
"The operative word is build­ing trust between two great na­tions at the same time with verification of building down rather than building up." said Hesburgh. "We have to keep the downward motion going or we are in trouble." 
Hesburgh's lecture was part of the Center for Social Con­cerns "Call to Peacemaking Week." 


99C 


Other sizes: Sl.l9 lW·" IJSJ $1.7~ f ... s~.29 u~ _·ns) 
18187 state Road 23 
kinko•s® 

271-{)300 
the copy center 


,................... 
THE CORINTHIAN TRADING COMPANY 
presents: 
SWEATER SALE 
100°/o Wool-HANDMADE Sweaters Imported from GREECE 
NOVEMBER 7-11 MONDAY -FRIDAY 8:00AM -5:00PM 
LA FORTUNE Student Center Room 108 
Large Selection Great Presents Many Sizes Student Prices 
• 
•
•
• •
• 

•·•~'·~·>lf·>lf·IJI"e'lltlet~tl,el,elltee'·'·'·'·'·'·'·'·'·~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.fefefefefefefefefefe!e!e!e!e!e!e!e~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~••~••~••~.~.~.~: 

-~---~--~·~-~­
Wednesday, November 9, 1988 The Observer 
page 5 


The Observer I Mike Moran

A-voting we will go... 
An unidentified student exits the voting booth set up in Stepan, no doubt after waiting in the line that kept on growing_ 
CALL TO PEACEMAKING 
Wednesday, November 9 
"ELECTION POST MORTEM: WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE?" Shelly Douglass. Chairperson of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, 6:15 P.M. at the CSC. Sponsored by CILA. DEBATE ON THE PALESTINIAN UPRISING With N.D. scholars, Yehuda Kovacs and Edna Hidekel from Israel and Zoughbi Zoughbi and Jamal Abu Affcyeh from Palestine. 7:00 P.M. Theodore's. Sponsored by the 
International Graduate Student Committee of the GSU. FILM: ECLIPSE OF REASON Film with Discussion, 7:30 P.M. CSC, Right to Life US ROLE IN THIRD WORLD DEVELOPMENT 
Dr. Denis Goulet, ND Professor, 7:00 pm at the CSC. Sponsored by World Hunqer Coalition. 
Thursday, November 10 HOSPITALITY LUNCH 
11:30 A.M. to 1:00 P.M., CSC Coffee House Sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace FILM: CRY REASON 
A film about Beyers Naude, the leading white South African dissident who holds an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame. 8:00 P.M. at the CSC, with discussion led by Peter Walshe, Professor and Director of 
African Studies, Notre Dame, · Anti-Apartheid Network 


Austria's Waldheim accused of link with 'Kristallnacht' 
Associated Press 
VIENNA--Political instabil­ity and anti-Semitism in Austria helped pave the way for the annihilation of Jews that began with the violence of Kris­tallnacht 50 years ago, Chan­cellor Franz Vranitzky said Tuesday. 
Nazi thugs ran rampant on the nights of Nov. 9-10, 1938, in Germany and Austria, which Adolf Hitler had annexed to his Third Reich eight months before. They burned synagogues and shops, killed scores of Jews and arrested thousands for deportation to concentration camps. 
The Nazis named it Crystal Night, boastfully, for the shat­tered glass that littered the streets. 
Austria's head of state nor­mally would give a nationally 
Fasters in Washington, D.C. finally break after nearly four months 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--Eight adv­ocates for the homeless on Tuesday ended 48-day, water­only fasts staged as a protest over funding cuts in govern­ment housing programs. 
Carol Fennelly, a moving force behind the capital city's Community for Creative Non­Violence shelter for the home­less, was the first to break the fast, at 9 a.m. EST with a meal of pea soup, apple juice and sourdough bread sent by well­wishers from San Francisco. 
She then checked into 
Howard University Hospital, 
Chinese soldiers working to rescue hundreds in quake. rubble 
Associated Press Official Beijing radio said more than 100 people had been rescued from the rubble of col­lapsed buildings and many more were believed to be trapped. It said 1,000 soldiers were in­volved in the rescue operation and the central government had allocated $53.6 million. Sunday night's temblor registered 7.6 on the Richter scale, indicating a quake of tre­mendous destructive force. It was centered in Lancang and . Menglian counties of Yunnan province, about 240 miles southwest of Kunming, the provincial capital. More than 170 aftershocks had been felt by Tuesday after­noon but their strength was declining, said Li Xianhu of the 
broadcast address and attend other events on such an an­niversary, but President Kurt Waldheim has been accused of involvement in Nazi atrocities. 
He issued a statement through his press office saying "the devastation and destruc­tion" of Kristallnacht "as well asthe mishandling and the hor­rific deaths of numerous people showed the regime of that time in its entire brutality." 
"The nearly complete expul­sion and destruction of the Jewish people has left deep wounds in the country up to the present day," Waldheim said. 
Vienna had 180,000 Jews on that ni~ht that began the exter­mination of 6 million European Jews by Adolf Hitler, who was born in Austria. About 7,000 now live in the city. 
In West Berlin, 5,000 people held a solemn procession to 
where she was listed in critical condition after undergoing a series of tests that revealed a dangerously low blood potas­sium level. Her condition was later upgraded to serious. 
Hospital spokesman Norman Brooks said Fennelly, 39, would likely survive. 
"She looked weak, but she was conscious," Brooks said. 
"She is not in great shape," said Mitch Snyder, founder of the shelter. "Her veins are completely shot and she has no blood pressure," 
Three hours after Fennelly ate her first meal since Sep­tember, seven other activists, including Snyder, -ended similar fasts. Snyder said the protest was staged to get Congress to restore the 75 per­cent of the nation's housing budget that has been cut over the past seven years and, in general, to draw attention to the plight of the homeless. 
"We did what we believe is right," Snyder said. "We aren't concerned about the impact ... we just hope something will happen." 
mark the anniversary. Com­munist East Germany ob­served it by honoring Jewish leaders: 
Avi Weiss, an American rabbi and outspoken opponent of Waldheim, said the Austrian observances are hypocritical while he is president. 
Weiss, who came to Vienna for the occasion, said, "it is a false commemoration, since 50 years after the event strong elements of Nazism remain here.'' He called W aldheim ''an unrepentant ex-Nazi." 
Vranitzky took over the ceremonial duties because of the controversy about Waldheim, who was a German army lieutenant in the Balkans during World War II but denies committing war crimes. 
State Seismology Bureau in Beijing. 
About 14 counties were af­fected, covering 16,000 square miles in a long corridor near Yunnan's southwestern fron­tier with Burma. Officials said they did not know the popula­tion of the mountainous, jungle­covered region, most of whose residents are farmers of the Lahu, Va and Dai minorities. 
Information on casualties and rescue work was sparse and most government offices refused to answer reporters' questions, but the Civil Affairs Ministry told the U.N. develop­ment Program and World Food Program offices in Beijing more than 930 people were killed. 


IRELAND PROGRAM 
Information Sessions 
TONIGHT 
7:00 pm 304 Haggar College Center SMC 
Applications Distributed 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
----~-----~----------­
page 6 
Mutz disappointed with close defeat 
By MICHELLE DALL Senior Staff Reporter 
INDIANAPOLIS-November 8 was a bittersweet day for In­diana Republicans. 
While Rep. Senator Richard Lugar defeated his opponent Democrat Jack Wickes in a landslide victory, Republican John Mutz was not as fortunate. 
Mutz, who has served as lieutenant governor !)f Indiana for the past eight years was defeted by his Democratic rival Secretary of State Evan Bayh. 
With 79.9 percent of the precincts reporting, Bayh received 52.8 percent of the state-wide vote, compared to Mutz's 47.2 percent. This trans­lates to about a 100,000 vote margin of victory for Bayh. 
Bayh, 32, is the son of Birch Bayh, former U.S. Senator from Indiana. 
In his concession speech Mutz stressed that despite his loss he was proud of his past accomplishments. "In the past 13 years we've changed the course of Indiana history," he told supporters at the Republi­can headquarters in In­dianapolis Tuesday night. "I have seen things happen I only dreamed of when we first started. Now I'm proud to say 
Hiler 
continued from page 1 
LaPorte County, Hiler's home county, were delayed due to voting machine malfunctions. 
"This campaign is con­cluded. It will not go on for seventy-seven days," said Hiler, referring to the delay due to recount in 1986. 
"You can't begin to know what it's like to have a 47 vote victory off my back," Hiler told supporters who spent the eve­ning in South Bend's Elks Club awaiting the results and the candidate's arrival. 
"To the media who covered the race day in and day out, now you can start a story with­out saying John Hiler, who won the closest race in the country," said Hiler. 
Hiler defeated Ward, a 1970 Notre Dame graduate, in Notre Dame's precinct, Portage 1, 486 to 474. 
Early in the day Hiler ex­pressed concern over the long lines to vote at Stepan Center, with only one machine as­signed to serve 1500 registered voters. "I thought it was unfor­tunate, especially with the high number of new registrations. With just one machine there, it would require one student voting every thirty seconds." 
Hiler was pleased with the in-
I played a role in these develop­
ments... We can be downright 
proud of what we've accom­
plished." 
Despite his apparent op­
timism, Mutz admitted he was 
disappointed with the election 
results, saying, " My 
idealism has been shaken a bit 
tonight." 
Quoting Democrat Adlai 
Stevenson, Mutz continued, 
"I'm too old to cry and it hurts 
too much to laugh." 
Incumbent Governor Rovert Orr also expressed disappoint­ment in the campaign outcome but said, "I know John Mutz will be recognized in history as · the man who came to the fore­front of Indiana government and made great economic gains. He worked toward the 
general welfare." 
Steve Goldsmith, who ran on 
Mutz's ticket as lieutenant 
governor said, "John is a man 
who's given a quarter of a cen­
tury of public service to In­
diana residents. One of the 
reasons he wasn't victorious 
tonight--in terms of the ballot 
box--was because the 
Democrats tried to look and 
sound like Republicans." 
"I assure you," Goldsmith 
continued, "Indiana has not 
seen the last of John Mutz. 
There's always the future." 
crease in support in the precinct. "In 1986, we took only 38 percent of the Notre Dame vote." 
Pat Hinton, St. Joseph County 
field coordinator for Hiler, 
saidr "I thought he would do 
better than that, after watching 
the students' reaction to the 
debate (at Notre Dame). Mter 
the debate I thought there was 
no doubt he was the more 
qualified candidate . " 
Hiler considered the debate 
a turning point in the cam­
paign. "The first several days 
after the debate I really sensed 
there had been a shift toward 
us." 
According to Hinton, Notre Dame's precinct was not the only one plagued by lines. "We had a similar problem in Har­rison Township. We had people standing in line, waiting two hours to vote. In an presidential election year, turnout will al­ways be high," Hinton said. 
Hiler complimented Ward on the "tough, spirited campaign run against us. Candidates will always disagree. No one will know what it was like to run except Tom Ward and myself. 
"In 1980 I was told, there will never be another victory like my first to the House of Repre­sentatives. He was right, but I say there will never be another victory like my victory in 1988." 
COACH'S Accepting applications for cooks, busers, kitchen help. Benefits include PAID vacations. 
PART TIME 8 • 20 hrs.!Wk. FULL TIME 40 hrs.!Wk. 
: 2046 South Bend Ave. 277-7678
!................ . 
The Observer Wednesday, November 9, 1988 

The Observer 1 Mike Moran
A familiar sight 

Long lines are nothing new to the students and faculty stationed in the Stepan Center. waiting to cast their ballots in the single election booth 
Ward concedes defeat after his early lead in votes disintegrates 
By MICHAEL WELLS Staff Reporter 
"It does not look as though we're going to win this cam­paign," said Third District Congressional candidate Tom Ward in a statement ,to reporters last night. 
Ward, the Democratic con­tender, while acknowledging that a computer breakdown in LaPorte County would delay the official results for at least a day, essentially conceded defeat at 11:25 p.m. 
Ward came out with a very strong early lead, but seasoned campaign workers in the Dem­ocratic office realized that this did not signal a quick victory. "The initial results are from St. Joe's County, and they're al­ways very pro-Democratic," said Tim Coleman, a Ward volunteer. 
Zack Hudgins, a Notre Dame student working with the Ward campaign, echoed the senti­ment early in the evening. "Every election goes this way," he said. "It's going to be a long night." 

Well, it was a long evening, but perhaps not long enough. By 11 p.m. Hudgins was describing the mood among the Ward volunteers as "very som­ber and reserved. They're not expecting any miracles." 
Ward's campaign manager, Mike Marshall, had said previ­ous to the candidate's speech that Ward would not be conced­ing defeat. Nevertheless, Ward thanked his staff ·for their ef­forts in this year's campaign as well as the one in 1986. In 1986, Ward lost the election to John Hiler by only 47 votes. 
Ward expressed no bitter­ness towards his rival. "My op­ponent, John Hiler, I want to congratulate him and wish him good luck," he said. Ward elicited a positive response from the crowd of supporters, however, when he also congrat­

they're all pretty angry about it." Sophomore Barb Izzo
§!u~l?m~!.'1 
waited in line for 45 minutes other unexpected problems. and still couldn't vote. "I have According to freshman John a meeting right now and I McKee, "Everyone in line is couldn't wait any longer," she talking about the wait and said. 
An MBA degree from Ohio State
What 

can bring you greater op}X>rtunities, income, and career challenges. Our 
CanAn nationally recognized MBA program offers merit-based financial aid and has no prerequisites. We enroll both
MBA 

business and nonbusiness majors. And many of our graduates have
Degree gone on to jobs with established leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For
Do For 

a free brochure about our programs, please write or call: 
You? 

Director, MBA Programs The Ohio State University
T · H · E 

112 Hagerty Hall
OHIO 

1775 College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399
SfA1E 
UNIVERSITY 
614-292-8511 
ulated the victory of Demo-· cratic gubernatorial candidate Evan Bayh. "It's going to be very good for the people of In­diana," he said. 
And the room erupted into cheers and applause when Ward answered a reporter's question, "Are you going to run again," by stating, "I'm going to put on my jogging shoes to­morrow morning." 
One of the items in this cam­paign was the large registra­tion of Notre Dame students and its possible effect on the election. When asked why the campus was so important, Marshall cited the closeness of the previous race and said, "Notre Dame just happened to register a lot of new voters." In fact, up until the very end Democratic campaign workers did not even know the results from the two precincts as­signed to the University, be­cause they aren't the so-called bellwether districts which tend to mirror overall results. 
Saint Mary's College 
V~l? r::()l2Ml~(7 A~TS 
S~[!lfS I 
presents 
Ed Met:r:ger ns: 
"EINSTEIN'' 
TH£ PRACTICAL BOHEMIAN 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10 -8P.M. O'UUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICk.ETS $7 50. $E 50, $5.50 AVAILABLE AT THE BOX OFFICE TO CHARGE BY PHONE 284·4626 v.SA MASTERCARD ACCEPTED 
~ 
Saint Mary's College 
:"<OTRl DA,\\E INDIAN:\ 
~ .. 

Viewpoint
Wednesday, November 9, 1988 rage 7 
U.S. must call for election in Liberia 
For more than a century, the United States has supported the government of Liberia. Founded by former Ameri­can slaves, Liberia always has had a special relationship with the United States. Over the past several years, however, that special relationship forcefully has called upon the United States to repudiate the present govern­ment of Liberia and actively support alternative parties. 
Rob Hennig
ruby tuesday 
Currently, Liberia is governed by Dr. 
Samuel Doe, a ruthless dictator who 
came to power earlier in this decade in 
a bloody coup d'etat. Doe has kept 
power only by means of brute force. He 
has killed and brutalized thousands, un­
concerned about human rights. He has 
ignored the Liberian constitution a 
document he originally accepted, 'by 
c?nstantly refusing to recognize the 
nght of the press and of opposition par­
ties to exist. He has kept power by 
fraudulently declaring himself the win­
ner of an election he most certainly lost. 
And what has the United States done 
about all this? Despite Doe's glaring 
disregard for Liberia's own interests 
and his obvious stealing of millions of 
dollars in United States aid, the Reagan 
administration has continued to sup­
port strongly the Doe regime. There is 
little evidence that a Bush administra­
tion would alter this line of thinking. 
The only thing preventing the 
removal of Doe from power is the per­
ception among Liberians of the U.S. 
government's unconditional support of 
Doe. He is extremely unpopular with 
the Liberian people. Doe has syphoned 
off millions of dollars from the govern­
ment to his private accounts in Swit­
zerland and severely mismanaged the 
economy. 
Even with United States support, it 
is doubtful that the Doe regime can long 
The other alternative would be if op­position forces of Doe succeed in top­pling Doe and checking the military. Although this would be difficult, it is not unimaginable that the thousands and thousands of Liberians opposed to Doe could thwart effectively the Doe military. With such a situation, it is dif­ficult to imagine oposition forces looking positively upon the United States. It is far more likely that when Doe falls, the successful opposition would be furious with our support of 
the Doe regime and would repudiate many current U.S.-Liberian agree­ments. The loss of the only Voice of 
America transmitter on the African 
Continent as well as key telecommun­ications facilities for U.S. facilities in West Africa is not unlikely should op­position forces achieve total power un­der current circumstances. 
Recognizing the limitations of United States foreign policy, it still seems nee­essary that the United States should im­mediately withdraw all forms of aid to the Liberian government. The withdrawal of funds to Liberia is the only way the U.S. can effectively promote democracy in Liberia. 
The U.S. should condition the release of aid funds on the holding of free and fair elections for the national govern­ment with U.S. government observa­tion. With the State Department and Congressional observation and tactful pressure, it is doubtful whether Doe could avoid calling for an election or be able to cheat successfully. The op­position parties would also provide ef­fective watchdogs in monitoring the elections. 
Samuel Doe might resist pressure 
from the United States to call for elec­
tions. Given Doe's unpopularity, 
however, he could not hold on to power 
for long without U.S. support. It would 
only be a matter of time before oppo­
sition forces lashed out against Doe's 
regime. In the long run, Doe would have 
little choice but to call elections. 
Given free and fair elections, it seems 
survive. Given current United States probable that a middle-of-the-road op­foreign policy toward Liberia, Doe's positon party like the Unity Party fall from grace presents a choice of two would be elected. Whoever comes to alternative paths, neither of which is power, U.S. support of a fair election desirable. In the first scenario, political process is the key to ensuring good re­
enemies of Doe succeed in a coup at­tempt (Doe claims three attempts have already been made) killing Doe but failing to bring the military under con­trol. An angry military would lash out, crush~ng any oppositon and instituting a reg1m~ even ~ore brutal than Doe 
could thmk of domg. 
Doonesbury 
MR.. BUSH. C4N YOU lJ!sc.&RN ANY f(&AL. MAN!JAT/3 IN YOUR. VIC7VR.Y Y&5Tl3RlJAY'? 
1 A/350­
LJ/Tet..Y! 
""' 

lations with the future Liberian govern­ment. Given Doe's lust for power, it does 
not seem improbable that he would try to deceive his way to victory in a new election. Without United States sup­port, however, Doe's claims to victory would stand no validity. Further, given an angry populace just waiting to bring him to justice, it is doubtful whether Doe could avoid the fate of many a dic­tator and be forced to find exile abroad. Without U.S. support, Doe could not retain power in Liberia after an elec­tion voted him out of office. 
Liberia is perceived by most countries inside and outside of Africa as a uniquely American problem. Fail­ure by the United States to stand up to the Doe regime has also represented an international embarrassment of the Reagan administration in foreign policy. It seems absurd that the U.S. would abandon the long-term interests of its closest ally in Africa for mis­guided short-term advance. There has never been any threat of Liberia going communist, a fact of which both the United States and the Soviet Union are aware. 
The United States appears afraid, h?we~er, to use its unique influence in Ltbena for the most trivial of reasons. The immediate withdrawal of funds from the Doe regime seems equivalent to an absoll!te obligation on the part of the U.S. Withdrawal of aid funding is the only possible policy open to the United States to promote true democracy and human rights in Liberia. 
Rob Hennig is a senior economics major and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
/ P.O. Box Q 
Learn from mistakes of Bush "rally"
Dear Editor: 

Now that the dust has settled from the visit of Vice President Bush to Notre Dame, it would do us all some good to reflect upon the events of one week ago. The arguments over details, and of who knew and did not know of the ticket distribution are now essentially irrele­vant. Nevertheless, the attempt by Mr. Schlapp to claim that student govern­ment (the student body president or vice president) was notified about the change of time is a complete fallacy. What should concern us, both as a Uni­versity and a community, is that the University's name, its people, and its affiliation with the Catholic Church were used as a backdrop for a political rally.· 
As the details of ''who did what" un­folded last week, we found the principle rationalization of those involved to be that "such is politics." We find this not only to be unsatisfactory but also an­tithetical to the values of this Univer­sity. Notre Dame, as a place committed to the value of intellectual debate, should not be about staging political pep rallies. Rather, the forum we pro­vide must promote an atmosphere of rigorous scrutiny where people of dif­fering political ideologies are encour­aged to actively participate in all events, as the Bush visit had originally been cast to be. The vice president was invited to lecture at this University on serious issues that were not to be over­tly political in character. The members of this community should be insulted 
that all they received was a typical campaign address, slightly tailored to the Notre Dame audience. 
To avoid such a fiasco in the future, the University must take a much more active and "hands-on" approach in or­ganizing such a high profile event. We can ill afford to leave the reputation of this University, and the principles it stands for, in the hands of an advance team whose sole responsibility is to package its candidate. It is our hope that the University continues to invite those persons who are leaders in their field and leaders in our country, but does not again enter into such a con­trived circus. We believe that, wittingly or unwittingly, Notre Dame was manip­ulated and used as a grand photo op­portunity. Hopefully the wisdom gained from this unfortunate experience will be applied to similar events in the fu­ture. Moreover, students who partici­pate in planning such an event in the future must be cognizant of their re­sponsibility as members of this com­munity. No matter how glamorous the event appears, we must not fall victim to partisan politics and cheapen the in­tellectual character of this University. As students, we should be proud that national leaders wish to come speak on our campus. However, the context of their appearance must be commen­surate to the mission of this University. 
Thomas P. Doyle Student Body President Michael M. Paese Student Body Vice President Nov. 7, 1988 

.-------------------------------~ 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the Day
I THINK tf/HAT TH£3 AM£3RICANI HtlVe A MANOATE3 TO SAY 
IT G/37? BACK 7D NOT JOIN TH£3 ACW, TO 
P50PLb 7VW US IN NO UN­TH& P~& OFAU/36/ANC&, 
ca<TAIN TCRMS Y{;STER//AY 
AND YOU TO &XPCR.JENa. NOT P&/?M!TMUR.JJf3f<&R5 OUT 
AI<.& THAT I'V5 5PbNTA 

IS THAT TH5Y UIANT 50M&­
" When white and black and 
11 ON IAI!ZKtWP 

ON& NHO IS NaTMIOIAE'L­MAN~ LIFETIME NOT 
brown and every other color
~ ~ FURUJU(~C/ 

8/i/NG 50/rlWN& I
OUI<AK/5.' /
/i\ 1.7. 7. 
'\ 1/ 

decide they're going to live
I -----­
together as Christians, then and only then are we going to see an end to these trou­bles." 
Barry M. Goldwater 

Editorial Board  Operations Board  
Editor-in-Chief.......... . ....................... Chris Murphy  Business Manager .. .. .. .. .. .  .. ....... John Oxrider  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Managing Editor......  .. ......... Chris Donnelly  Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen  
News Editor.........  .......... Regis Coccia  Advert1smg Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt  
News Editor .......................... ........ Mark Mclaughlin  Production Manager...  .. .... Bernadette Shi~s  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of  Viewpoint Editor........  . ... Man Slaughter  Systems Manager . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . ........ Mark Ridgeway  
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of  Sports Editor ....................... ............... Marty Strasen  Controller..................  . ........ Todd Hardiman  
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as  Accent Editor....  .. .......... Beth Healy  Graphic Arts Manager.  .. .... Marga Bruns  
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board.  Saint Mary's Editor............  ... Sandy Cerimele  
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column  Photo Editor..  .. . Michael Moran  
space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying  
opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged.  Founded November 3,1966  


Victory for Bush came shortly after 11 p.m. EST in The Associated Press tabulation. 
Bush--a pragmatic conservative who led Dukakis since August in the pre­election polls--won Quayle's Indiana to get off to a running start Tuesday night, then blazed uncontested across Dixie. He won Ohio, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Texas--five key states which had been crucial to Dukakis' hopes for a "November surprise." 
Missouri put Bush over the top in the AP tally. 
It was a singular triumph for Bush, but ticket-splitting voters delivered a strongly Democratic majority for the incoming lOlst Congress. 
Democrats appeared to be padding their margin in the Senate, and were marching solidly toward renewed com­mand of the House. They appeared to be adding to their ranks of governors, as well. 
Dukakis, whose hopes for an upset faded as his rival piled up the precious electoral votes, won at home in Massa­chusetts. He also won West Virginia, Rhode Island and the District of Colum­bia and led in nine states, including New York, Pennsylvania and Illinois. 
In the popular vote, with 58 percent of the precincts reporting, Bush had 27,936,468 or 54 percent. Dukakis had 23,881,576 or 46 percent for Dukakis. 
It wasn't even close where it counted, in the electoral votes. Bush had 295 and was leading for another 69, while 
Calif. 
47 
On this map, each state is shown with an area 


• 
proportional to that state's total number of presidential 
electors. A majority of 270 of the 538 electoral votes is needed to win the race. 
numbe leadin~ year. b, 

Dukakis had 34 and was leading for an­other 133 as the vote counts moved toward the West Coast. 
Democratic vice presidential can­
Lugar wins Senate seat with record vote 
didate Lloyd Bentsen had his Senate seat to go home to. He won handily as Associated Press dianapolis. He said he ran "a wished he could have emerged ate. He lost his first bid to Birch Democrats moved out smartly to campaign in which we tried to the victor. "But my eldest Bayh in 1974. renewed control in Congress. INDIANAPOLIS-Voters highlight the idealism of our daughter, Katie, gave me a hug Lugar has spent 20 years in 
Republican Senate Leader Bob Dole gave a huge vote of confidence country (and) our state." tonight and said she was proud public office, the first eight as conceded a new, probably stronger to Richard Lugar on Tuesday, "We thank each one of you of me. And you know, that's not mayor of Indianapolis. Democratic majority, and in an ex­sending him back to the U.S. who has been so responsible for half bad." He has become a top Repub­traordinary declaration, said Bush, Senate for a third term by a a perfect campaign," said Lugar needed more than 61 lican spokesman on foreign af­bore some of the blame. record margin of victory over Lugar, who raised nearly 12 percent to top the record for fairs, and his book published 
Democrat Jack Wickes. times as much money as percentage of the vote cap­this year, "Letters to the Next 
"I must say we could have used a With 84 percent of the state's Wickes. tured in a statewide race, set President," addresses those is­little help from the vice president in precincts reporting, the Repub­Wickes conceded defeat to by Dan Quayle in his 1986 Sen­sues. some of those states-Florida. We lican senator had captured 68 Lugar shortly after 9 p.m. ate re-election victory over Wickes, 41, had tried to pleaded with them to go to Florida," percent of the vote and held a Heavily Democratic Lake Democrat Jill Long. portray the former chairman where a close race was unfolding. margin of more than 600,000 County was the only county Lugar also appeared certain of the Senate Foreign Relations Dole, assuming a Bush triumph, said votes. Lugar had 1,163,601 Wickes led. to set a record for margin of Committee as someone more it was "probably correct" that there votes to Wickes' 557,392. "We played all the cards we victory in a statewide race. He familiar with the hopes and wouldn't be a mandate to go along with "Let me just thank each one were dealt, and we played as had set the mark by capturing dreams of the people of other it. But that wasn't the Reagan view. In of you for the inspiration you've well as we could," said Wickes, 406,000 more votes than Vance countries, such as Guatemala, a statement, he said of Bush and given us for a campaign of con­who appeared at a Democratic Hartke when Lugar first was than those of Gary. Quayle, " their mandate will continue structive Hoosier common celebration with his family. elected to the Senate in 1976. But Lugar said he has effec­the changes that create jobs, prosperity sense," Lugar told supporters Wickes said he had known it For Lugar, 56, it was his tively balanced foreign affairs and peace for all Americans." at a GOP celebration in In-would be a tough race and he fourth time to run for the Sen-leadership with constituent  
ELECTION '88: Election Round-up  
Six Indiana congressmen, three Republicans and The selection of Dan Quayle did not appear to impact for the Republican presidential ticket. He three Democrats, won re-election Tuesday to the U.S. House. the presidential voting. According to NBC-Wall Street Jour­Rep. Beau Boulter, who had complained abot Election returns in the state's remaining four congressional nal exit polling, 21 percent of voters said they had reserva­allowed the incumbent to seek re-election wh districts were inconclusive at mid-evening. The winners: tions about Quayle but voted GOP anyway; 16 percent said the Democratic vice presidential nominee. • Lee Hamilton, the state's senior-most representative, they might have voted for Bush but Quayle's presence on defeated Republican challenger Floyd Coates of Scottsburg the ticket helped them decide to vote for Dukakis. However, The Secret Service shunted Dan Qu in the 9th District. NBC poll analyst Sheldon Gawiser said almost all the 16 an alternate door of the Huntingdon, IN, cou • John Myers, the most experienced Republican, defeated percent were Democrats, leading him to conclude Quayle police received what was interpreted as a thr Democrat Mark Waterfill of Plainfield in the 7th District. actually had little effect. Some 63 percent said Quayle's phone call. Authorities detained an 18-year-old • Andrew Jacobs Jr., who has held the lOth District seat selection did not affect their vote for president. two hours before releasing him after determ since 1974, beat Republican James Cummings of In­was a prank, said police. An anonymous call dianapolis. A list of Dan Quayle successors has not been drawn 911 emergency line and said "Bye, bye, Dan ( • Dan Burton won a fourth term from the 6th District against up yet, said Gov. Robert Orr and other top Republicans on said, "Dan Quayle, bye," said McCutcheon Democratic challenger George Holland of Indianapolis. Tuesday. The governor will appoint Vice-President Elect Capt. Kent Farthing. Quayle was entering to • Dan Coats, a former Dan Quayle staffer when the 41-year­Quayle's successor to the U.S. Senate, who will then serve cast his vote after having his teeth cleaned, a Q old vice presidential candidate served in Congress, beat until 1990. A special election will then be held to determine day tradition. Democrat Jill Long in the 4th District. who will serve the last two years of Quayle's term. Among • Peter Visclosky beat Republican Owen Crumpacker, a the names mentioned in published reports and speculation Amendments concerning lotteries a disbarred Hammond attorney, in the 1st District. The district by political insiders are 4th District Rep. Dan Coats; Lt. Supreme Court appeared headed for passag has traditionally voted heavily Democratic. Gov. John Mutz; Indiana House Speaker Paul Mannweiler, Another to allow county officials to serve un R-Indianapolis; state Rep. Patrick Kiely of Anderson, chair­seemed doomed.  

The gender gap, cited early in the presidential campaign  man of the Indiana House Ways and Means Committee, and  •With 60 percent of the state's 4,900 precinct!':  
as a problem for Vice President George Bush, turned out to  Marilyn Quayle, the senator's wife.  percent of voters were in favor of Propositi  
benefit him. An ABC News poll found Bush leading strongly  read,  "Shall the constitution of the state (  
with men, 56-43 percent, but Dukakis narrowly ahead among  Sen. Lloyd Bentsen rode his statewide popularity to a  amended  by removing  the  language  that  
women, 51-48 percent.  fourth term Tuesday even as his state voted overwhelmingly  teries?" Thirty-nine percent were opposed.  

DN '88 
USE RACES 
cted results as of 2 a.m. . November 9, 1988 
Rep.  Others  
223  147  0  
32  27  0  
0  0  0  
255  174  0  
257  178  0  
+2  -2  0  
Rep.  Others  
18  9  0  
0  6  0  
36  31  0  
54  46  0  
54  46  0  
+0  -0  0  

to the anticipated new party division for 
and House. It is calculated by adding the of races which each party has won or is plus office holders not subject to election this 
on latest results. 


!!!Xo~page 1 
ing a man of his character." 
The governor-elect and his lieutenant governor, Frank O'Bannon, said they plan to continue the issues set forth during their campaign. 
"This is a victory for the people of the state of Indiana. It is a victory for the people who came together to lay the foun­dation for prosperity, who invest in edu­cation and frugality in government, who work hard to develop job opportunities,'' Bayh said. 
Education will be the top priority of 
the Bayh administration, Bayh said. 
Their first step, however, is to make a 
smooth transition into the governor's of­
fice, he added. 
"Education is the number one priority. 
It should be in every government," 
O'Bannon said. "The one year (Indiana 
Governor) Bob Orr did it it made a big 
difference." 
The lieutenent governor-elect said 
making reductions and channeling funds 
to education will also be very important 
to Bayh, who stressed reduced govern­
ment spending throughout his campaign. 
"At its very finest, politics and gov­
ernment can inspire each and every one 
of us...to make a state we can all be 
proud of," Bayh said. "It is the honor of 
my lifetime to help lead the way." 
Thousands of supporters rallied at the 
Democratic Party headquarters in the 
Indianapolis Convention Center, a 
stone's throw from the State Capital. 
Many said Tuesday was a night long 
overdue for Indiana Democrats. 
The last Democratic Indiana Governor 
was Roger Branigan, who served one 
term beginning in 1964. 
"The turning point (this year) came 
when the Republican machine tried to 
take Evan Bayh off the ballot," said In­
diana Democratic Party Chairman John 
Livengood. "That set a vindictive tone 
that haunted their campaign." 
But Bayh's Press Secretary Fred Na­
tion said he felt his candidate won the 
race weeks ago. 
"We had a very disciplined campaign 
on a few major issues and we stuck to 
it," Nation said. "Two weeks ago, we 
had the playing ground to ourselves. 
Every day we waited for an offensive 
and it didn't come until two weeks ago. 
Nation said he thought the race be­
tween Mutz and Bayh was not particu­
larly negative because the Republicans 
were unable to find anthing negative 
about Bayh, he said. 
Even at 32, Bayh is no stranger to 
politics. His father, Birch Bayh, was a 
three term U.S. senator and former 
speaker of the Indiana House of Repre­
sentatives. 
The younger Bayh, a graduate of In­
diana University and the University of 
Virginia Law School, was elected In­
diana Secretary of State in 1986. 
efeated GOP t the law that le running as 
1yle through fthouse after ratening tele­nan for about ning the call r dialed the uayle," then nd sheriff's ourthouse to ~ayle election 
d the Indiana early today. imited terms 
reporting, 61 ~One, which r Indiana be )rohibits lot­
•With 
59 percent of the vote counted, 58 percent of the voters were in favor of Proposition 2, which would allow only con­victs whose sentences exceed 50 years to skip the Indiana Court of Appeals and take their cases directly to the state's highest court. Forty-two percent were opposed. Currently, convicts can appeal directly to the supreme court if their sentences are greater than 10 years. 

•Proposition 
3, which would allow county officials to be elected as often as voters support them, appeared headed for defeat. With 59 percent of the precincts reporting, 63 percent opposed the proposition and 37 percent approved it. 


Maryland's tough handgun control law held a surprisingly big lead in early returns Tuesday, in a contest seen as crucial to impending gun control debates in other states. With 10 percent of the state's precincts reporting, support for the state's law banning cheap handguns known as "Saturday Night Specials" was ahead 150,595 votes or 61 percent, to 96,070 votes or 39 percent for repeal. The gun law battle provoked a bitter political fight that become the most expensive in state history. The National Rifle Associ­ation spent more $4 million to repeal the Maryland statute. 
Briefs compiled from Associated Press stories. 
----~-----------------~~-------­
The Observer -Pages 8-9 









ELECTION '88: Important Senate races 
MICHIGAN 
Republican nominee Jim Dunn faced off against Democratic Sen. Donald Riegle in a campaign characterized by televised at­tacks by both candidates. Dunn was ex­pecting financial assistance from the na­tional GOP that never materialized. Dunn himself contributed a substantial amount to his campaign. Riegle has raised about $4.5 million, half of which was spent on l"iil Jim television advertising including an
t!!J DUNN onslaught during the Seoul Olympics. 
1:n71 Sen. Donald ~ RIEGLE 
l"iil George l.!!..J VOINOVICH 
Jliil Sen. Howard ~ METZENBAUM 
Rep. Buddy 
ldl 
~ MAC KAY 
l"iilR Rep. Connie l.!!..J MACK 

NEW JERSEY 
Freshman Democratic Sen. Frank Lauten­berg faced a tough race against Republi­can candidate, Rhodes scholar and Heis­man trophy winner Pete Dawkins. Dawkins characterized Lautenberg as a back­bencher, while Lautenberg countered with charges of carpetbagging on Dawkins' part. Lautenberg has spent much of his time in Congress on state-related issues. Dawkins claims Lautenberg has consis­tantly voted to raise taxes and cut defense. 
NEW YORK 
Democratic Sen. Daniel Moynihan battled Republican challenger Robert McMillan. McMillan launched attacks on the incum­bent's record on the environment, while Moynihan generally ignored his opponent. McMillan ran on a platform supporting in­creased funding for healthcare and housing. Moynihan gets consistantly high voter-approval ratings, helping to push the welfare reform legislation through Congress. 
CONNECTICUT 
Moderate Republican Sen. Lowell Weicker and Democratic States Attorney Joseph Lieberman contested the Connecticut Sen­ate race. Both politicians are proven vote­getters and can attract crossover voters. Lieberman has charged that Weicker hides behind the label "maverick" to keep from being held accountable for his record and his votes in Congress. 
CALIFORNIA 
Republican Sen. Pete Wilson was chal­lenged by Democratic Lt. Gov. Leo McCarthy. By election day, Wilson will have raised almost $15 million, compared to McCarthy's $9 million; a large portion of this money will be spent on the airwaves. Wilson has consistantly outmaneuvered his opponent on many issues, but has been unable to move out of the mid-40s in the polls. 
G11l Sen. Frank ~ LAUfENBERG 
i 
,"~­
~ Sen. Daniel L1t..J MOYNIHAN 


rn1 Leo ~ MCCARTHY 
l"iil Robert
t!!J MC MILLAN 


OHIO 
Cleveland Mayor George Voinovich chal­lenged Democratic Sen. Howard Metzen­baum. Voinovich stressed winning south­ern and western Ohio, with Metzenbaum centering on the northern industrial cities. Voinovich underestimated the difficulty in raising this downstate support. He has con­sistantly questioned Metzenbaum's ethics, while Metzenbaum has drawn attention to his presence on the national GOP's "hit list." 
FLORIDA 
Two Representatives, Republican Connie Mack and Democrat Buddy MacKay, battled for the seat opened by the retire­ment of Democrat Sen. Lawton Chiles. MacKay only earned his party's nomination in early October, but the race was a dead heat right up to election day. Mack has defined the campaign as a choice between 
conservative  (himself)  and  liberal  
(MacKay).  MacKay  ads  have  told  the  
voters  that  the  choice  was  between  

"mainstream and extreme." 


Accent

page 10 Wednesday, November 9, 1988 

lavia, Switzerland, West Ger-will air only the first 18 hours many, England, Poland, next week. The remaining 12 Canada, and America, where hours will be shown in the filming ended on September spring. This division makes 18, 1987. Auschwitz, the Polish the viewing time seem concentration camp was shorter and adds to the opened for filming for the suspense and intrigue of the first time in history after two movie. years of negotiations with Whether viewers will tune Polish government. All this in to watch this series is time and effort will definitely ABC's major concern. add to the film's realism and However, when the winds integrity. have died down, the 
While the entire mini-series remembrance will hopefully is over 30 hours long, ABC be a ratings high. 
-----------AND--------­
REMEMBRANCE 

O
n Sunday November 13, 1988, it begins ... or ends. The ABC Television Network sets in motion its 30-hour blockbuster mini-series "War and Remembrance." This marathon epic, which is the sequel to Herman Wouk's "The Winds of War," will either attract a respectably large viewing audience or spell the end of the long-Natalie Jastrow (Jane Seymour) became trapped in Europe along with her uncle Aaron (Sir John Gielgud). 
In America, Pug's wife Rhoda (Polly Bergen), feeling unloved, turned to scientist Palmer Kirby (Peter Graves) for comfort while Pug himself was fighting his attraction to a young English woman named Pamela Tudsbury Northampton at Pearl Har­
JOE BUCOLO 
bor. The drama unfolds as Pug faces his wartime re­sponsibilities, his crumbling marriage, his reunion with Pamela, and his estrange­
To Be Continued 

ment from Byron. The full running mini-series format. (Victoria Tennant). (You power of Nazi Germany is ABC, of course, hopes for the didn't expect this to be a his­fulfilled as Natalie, Aaron, 
former. tory lesson entirely, did you?) and Louis are shipped off to 
For 18 hours in 1983, "The As "Winds of War" drew to concentration camps. Winds of War" attracted an a close, Pug's sons Byron and During the course of the audience of 140 million Warren (Michael Woods), in film's 30 hours, viewers will viewers. The story covered the Navy, prepared for war. experience Midway, the as­
the events leading to Natalie, her son Louis, and sassination attempt on Hitler, America's involvement in Aaron found themselves the D-Day invasion at Nor­World War II, specifically stranded in Italy in the mandy, the Battle of the 
focusing on how those events shadow of growing Gestapo Bulge, and the first explosion affected the Henry family. power. The film's final scene of the atom bomb. Victor "Pug" Henry presented Pug looking into Over five years in the <Robert Mitchum), a Naval the grim future on the day making, "War and officer and unofficial envoy after Japan attacked Pearl Remembrance" is ready for for President Roosevelt in Harbor. its world premiere. Filming 
Europe, dealt with interna­"War and Remembrance" of this landmark project tional leaders of the time. begins one week later on began in Lourdes, France on Pug's son Byron (Hart Boch­December 15, 1941 as Pug January 6, 1986 and continued 
ner) and his Jewish wife takes command of the U.S.S. through Italy, Austria, Yugos-
This is Shakespeare? 
description. latest glimpse of the Bard's CHRIS WELSH But with the holiday season work here at Notre Dame 
accent writer 

approaching, Notre Dame's chose it because of its univer­'Abawdy, raucous, Communiucation and Theatre sal appeal. 
slapstick comedy," isn't Department unleashes Set as a modern-day New quite the average student's "Twelfth Night" by William Year's Eve costume party evaluation of a Shakespeare, a seasoned tale, performed in Elizabethan cos­Shakespearean play. "Boring, full of fun and decidedly tumes, and replete with droll, depressing and tragic," lighter entertainmemt. ~n anachronistic sets and props, is perhaps a more apropos fact, those responsible for the "Twelfth Night" spins a 
.,,_ I_ :f~ r;):!; 1~1";:, ; ~ !:, ~:i: ·,; 
. ·~ . . ti: 1. :r: ..~:· 
\. ; !i';'i ~· ~-li 
''1:~1: 
:; 
~~­
J'r 
The Observer I Jennifer O'Donald 

Sir Toby Belch (Tony Lawton), Marla (Nancy O'Connor), Sir Andrew Aquecheek (Joseph Keller), and Clown (Joseph Medel) celebrate New Year's Eve under an anachronistic Christmas tree In "Twelfth Night." 
romantic yarn of love in the 
far-away land of Illyria. 
The play tells the story of 
two fraternal twins, Viola and 
Sebastian. The twins are 
separated during a 
shipwreck, and although each 
survives, they both believe 
the other to be dead. Viola 
disguises herself as a man, 
which leads the other charac­
ters in the play to mistake 
her for Sebastian. This dis­
guise and mistaken identities, 
typical Shakespearean com­
edic devices, are the basis for 
much of the confusion and therefore the fun. 
The rationale for selecting "Twelfth Night" is complex, and could be the basis for an entire article by itself. However, Mark Pilkinton, director of the Notre Dame production and associate profeesor of communication and theatre, describes his fifth directorial turn as an attempt to "promote Shake­speare," and "hook people off the street who have had no previous exposure to the play." 
He desribes this particular piece as "one I've wanted to do for a long time," due primarily to its appeal to those unfamiliar, or even uni­nterested in standard Shakespearean fare. Those familiar with the play should enjoy it just as much, though, as only a few words in the text have been changed. 
The play has also been cut down to two hours, but as Pilkinton notes, "I've tried to cut the play in such a way 
"War and Remembrance"----.. Viewing Schedule (Channel 28) 
Sunday, November 13 8:00-11:00 p.m. Tuesday, November 15 8:00-11:00 p.m. Wednesday, November 16 9:00-11:00 p.m. Thursday, November 17 9:00-11:20 p.m. Sunday, November 20 9:00-11:05 p.m. Tuesday, November 22 8:30-11:00 p.m. Wednesday, November 23 8:30-11:00 p.m. 
that only those most familiar 
with "Twelfth Night" will 
notice. Besides, all the texts 
of Shakespeare are corrupt 
anyway," he commented, in­
dicating the impossibility of 
preserving an "authentic" 
script. 
The set was designed by Williard Neuert, assistant professor of communication and theatre, in an attempt to convey a modern, festive, glitzy New Year's Eve party, an appropriate modern coun­terpart to the "Twelfth Night" celebration of 1602, which featured the first per­formance of the play. Thus, contemporary scenes for today's modern audience were integrated with authen­tic Elizabethan costumes (designed by Professor Rich­ard Donnelly of Purdue Uni­versity) and language. 
The result of this work is an enjoyable performance of classic literature which transcends its stuffy contem­poraries by reaching out to all with its bawdy comedy and infectious humor. This universal aspect guarantees a good time for everyone. 
Performances run from Wednesday, November 9 to Saturday November 12 at 8: 10 
p.m. and Sunday November 13 at 3:10p.m. Tickets are $6 main floor and $5 balcony and are available at the door or at the LaFortune Box Office, weekdays 12:15 to 6 p.m. Stu­dent and senior citizen admis­sion is $4 for the Wednesday, Thursday, and Sunday perfor­mances. 

----~------------------------------------------------~ 
Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, November 9, 1988 
Basketball Tickets 
Special to the Observer 
Student season tickets for the 1988-89 Notre Dame bas­ketball season are still avail­able at the Joyce ACC box office. 
Athletic Department director of promotions Bubba Cunningham says that student ticket sales are down from last year, despite the improvements in the Irish home schedule. 
"I can't figure out why they're not selling," Cunnin­gham said. "I guess the stu­dents are still thinking about 
football, and not basket­ball." 
A few lower arena seats are still available for stu­dent purchase at $85, half off the price for the general public. Plenty af bleacher seats are available to stu­dents at $68 for the season. 
Students can purchase tickets from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the JACC ticket office un­til the Notre Dame­Yugoslavia game Nov. 18. This season's home schedule includes Syracuse, Indiana, Temple, Duke, USC, DePaul and Louisville. 
MCC Standings 
The Midwestern Collegiate Conference McCafferty Trophy is awarded annually to the conference's all-sports champion. 
Current Standings Team BU Men's Golf 3 Women's Tennis 0 Men's C.C. 4 Women's C.C. 2.5 Men's Soccer  UDay 7 • 3 2 0 3.5  UDet UE 4 0 5 4 5 2.5 0 1 3.5  LU 2 0 5 1  MU 0 0 4  NO 5 7 7 7 7  SLU 0 2 0 0 5  XU 0 0 3 3 1  
Total Points  9.5  15.5  12.5 12.5  8  4  33  7  4  

Key: BU-Butler, UDay-Dayton, UDet-Detroit, UE-Evansville, LU-Loyola, MU-Marquette, NO-Notre Dame, SLU-St. Louis, XU-Xavier. 
Irish Hockey 
Through Sunday 

PLAYER 
Herber, R. 
Banksoke, D. Guay, B. Kuehl, T. Hanzel, M. Bilton. R. Caddo, T. Haikola, B. 
Patrick K. Bemiss, R. Hoelzel, W. Bankoske, R. Montgomery, B. Curry, M. O'Sullivan Leherr, M. Zadra, L. Markovitz, K. Musty, M. Olson, C. McCiew, M. Arendt, P. Lerman, B. Slaggert, A. Madson, L. 
NOTRE DAME OPPONNETS 
GOALTENDER Madson, L. 
NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS 
GP  G  A  PTS  P-MIN  
7  3  5  8  12-28  
8  2  7  9  0-0  
8  3  3  6  15-12  
8  4  3  7  7-14  
8  3  2  5  2-4  
7  2  2  4  4-10  
7  1  2  3  4-11  
5  0  2  2  5-10  
7  1  2  3  4-8  
6  0  1  1  2-4  
7  1  0  1  1-2  
6  1  2  3  o-o  
8  1  2  3  1-2  
8  2  2  4  2-4  
4  0  0  0  0-0  
7  0  0  0  8-16  
4  0  0  0  2-4  
4  0  0  0  1-2  
4  0  0  0  0-0  
7  0  0  0  1-2  
7  0  0  0  4-8  
3  0  0  0  2-4  
1  0  0  0  1-2  
1  0  0  0  0-0  
8  0  0  0  1-2  
·a  24  35  59  70.151  
8  36  54  90  84-179  
G  GA  svs  S%  GAVG  
8  36  306  .895  4.50  
8  36  306  .895  4.50  
8  24  246  .911  3.00  

NCAA Soccer Tournament 
GW 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
3 
4 


:\iiwicia 

Division I 
P~~n state 
t:lclollard 

N:~Textjle 
I 
SEMIFINALS on campus of 
a participating 1----~ Sculb ~arclica lnStltUtiOO December3 
:::~::~~a 
Sl Lcuili 

~:~ Oame FINALS on campus of Salce !:Jail a particiP.ating 
--­institution 
December 4 

:~:~:a 
lcdiaca 

::Z!:~ 
Ecillacd 

~~~ieocSt 
Nlen's
Ellalllillilla 

~r~~a sw1e Bracket 
AP Football Poll 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty college football teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Notre Dame (42) 940 1160 2. Southern Cal (15) 8-Q-0 1122 3. Miami 7-1-0 1065 4. West Virginia (1) 9-0-0 979 5. Florida State 8-1-0 933 6. UCLA 8-1-0 864 7. Nebraska 9-1-0 640 8. Oklahoma 8-1-Q 752 9. Auburn 8-1-0 719 10. Wyomong 10-Q-0 665 11. Arkansas 9-0-0 593 12. LSU 6-2-0 469 13. Michigan 6-2-1 425 14. Oklahoma State 6-2-0 386 15. Syracuse 7-1-0 384 16. Clemson 7-2-Q 321 17. Georgia 7-2-0 298 18. Alabama 6-2-0 95 19. Colorado 7-2-0 66 20. Washington State 6-3-0 61 
Others receiving votes: Houston 60, South Carolina 27, Army 26, BYU 16, Western Michigan 15, Texas A&M 11, Southern Mississippi 8, Pit­tsburgh 7, Arizona 5, Oregon 5, Arizona State 4, Illinois 3, UTEP 3, Hawaii 2, Michigan State 1, 
lnterhall Football 
Men'a Semlflnala 

Sunday'• Results Stanford 13, Alumni 0 Dillon 6, Fisher 2 
Champlonahlp Nov. 20, NO Stadium 

Women's Semlflnala Lewis 14. Farley 6 Breen-Phillips 8, Pasquerilla West 6 
Champlonahlp TBA 

NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE Adams Dlvlalon w L T GF GA Pis. 

Boston  9  3  3  61  
Montreal  7  7  2  60  
Buffalo  6  8  2  57  
Hartford  6  7  0  51  
Quebec  6  9  0  52  
Patrick Dlvl alon  
NY Rangers  8  4  1  57  
Pittsburgh  8  6  0  70  
Philadelphia  8  7  0  62  
New Jersey  6  6  2  49  
NY Islanders  5  7  1  39  
Washington  4  8  2  49  

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norrla Dlvlalon 

w L T GF Toronto 8 6 1 56 Detro~ 5 5 4 50 St. Louis 6 5 2 48 Chicago 4 10 2 64 Minnesota/ 2 9 2 36 
Smythe Dlvalon Calgary 8 3 3 66 Los Angeles 9 6 0 n Edmonton 7 5 2 57 Vancouver 7 7 2 53 Winnipeg 4 5 3 44 40 21 56 16 74 14 50 12 66 12 
41 17 65 16 57 16 56 14 50 11 54 10 
GA Pis 50 17 52 14 52 14 76 10 55 6 
39 19 69 18 59 16 45 16 52 11 

~Sports Calendar 
Wednesday 

No sports scheduled  
Thursday No sports scheduled  
Friday Volleyball hosts GOLDEN CLASSIC, 6 p.m. Hockey at Air Force  DOME  
Saturday Volleyball hosts GOLDEN CLASSIC, 6 p.m. Hockey at Air Force  DOME  

Men's cross country at NCAA District IV Meet Women's cross country at NCAA Dis­
trict IV Meet 
Sunday Wrestling vs. AIR FORCE, 1 p.m. Soccer in NCAA Tournament at SMU 
PLAYER GP KILLS Mary Kay Waller 4'83 322> Zanette Bennett ... 79 27~ ,, Maureen Shea ;;;'81 220 Colleen Wagner 
30 ·"'''' 55
33 ,,,,. 60

' Tracey Shelton Kathy Cunningham Whitney Shewman ~~<;;1~ Jennifer Slosar 22 29 Joanna Bruno 26 27 Christine Choquette 1 1 ... 
. Julie Bremner 85 ,. 11 !;l~ir Amy White 36 19 ''' Rachel Hall 17 
Katie Kavanaugh " 1. 
NOTRE DAME 86 
page 11 

Sports Lists 
Season Records of Schools Playing the Toughest Schedules, 1978-87* 
St. (1980)-10-1-00,_ 
~­

Penn St. (1982)-10-1 ~Auburn (1983)-10-1 Penn St. (1981 )-9-2-0 Notre Dame (1978)-8-3-0 Notre Dame (1987)-8-3-0 Florida (1986)-6-5-0 Penn St. (1984)-6-5-0 Notre Dame (1985)-5-6-0 UCLA (1979)-5-6-0 
*Based on Division 1-A opponents regular season records 
Source: NCAA Observer Graphic: Geoff Sauer and Marga Bruns 
Soccer Poll 
ISAA Coachea'Poll ranking the top 20 soccer teams. 
1. Virginia (20)  17-Q-3  356  
2. Portland (4)  19-Q-0  335  
3. Seton Hall  15-3-0  261  
4. Saint Louis  18-3-2  255  
5. South Carolina  12-3-4  253  
6. Evansville  15-4-1  250  
7. Howard  16-Q-1  243  
8. San Diego State  15-2-4  227  
9. Indians  15-3-3  177  
10. Adelphi  14-5-1  95  
11. SMU  10-2-6  78  
12. Connecticut  14-7-1  66  
13. North Carolina State  12-4-4  61  
14. UCLA  17-3-2  43  
15. Notre Dame  17-3-2  43  
16. Philadelphia Textile  13-2-5  38  
17. Brooklyn College  13-1-3  31  
18. North Carolina  13-8-1  16  
19. Boston University  14-3-3  15  
20. Duke  15-6-0  7  

Scoreboard 
ResuHs for Nov. 2-8 
Football (9-0) Notre Dame 54, Rice 11 
Men's Soccer (17-3-2) Notre Dame 2, Wisconsin-Green Bay 1 
at MCC Tournament Notre Dame 6, Detroit 0 Notre Dame 2, Evansville 0 Notre Dame 2, St. Louis 0 Notre Dame wins MCC Championship 
Hockey (3-4-1) Notre Dame 4, Michigan-Dearborn 1 Michigan Dearborn 3, Notre Dame 3 
Volleyball (14-9) Notre Dame del. Michigan 15-5, 15-6, 15-5 Notre Dame over Eastern Michigan 15-8, 16-18, 15-8, 15-10 
Women's Soccer (13-6-1) Michigan State 3, Note Dame 0 
Tennis 
Women's Notre Dame 4th at the Rice Tennis Classic CeCa Cahill 2nd -No.1 singles Tracy Barton, 3rd -No. 3 singles 
Wrestling Notre· Dame 2nd at Michigan State Invita­tional 
Swlmmlmg 
Men's (Q-1) Texas Christian 108, Notre Dame 135 Notre Dame 2nd at the Notre Dame Relays 
Women's (Q-1) Texas Christian 92, Notre Dame 151 Notre Dame 2nd at the Notre Dame Relays 
Irish Volleyball 
AVG I; 
3.88 1 
3.~ 
2.72 
1-83
1;82 
~:: 
1.32 1.04 
1.00 o:9t Oi53 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
· Eaat 
w L T Pet. NY Giants 7 3 0 .700 Phoenix ·s 4 0 .600 Washington 6 4 0 .600 Philadelphia 5 5 0 .500 Dallas 2 8 0 .200 
Central 
Chicago 8 2 0 .600 Minnesota 6 4 0 .600 Detro~ 2 8 0 .200 Green Bay 2 8 0 .200 Tampa Bay 2 8 0 .200 
WHI 
LA Rams 7 3 0 .700 New Orteans 7 3 0 .700 San Francisco 6 4 0 .600 Atlanta 3 7 0 .300 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East 
w L T Pet. Buffalo 9 1 0 .900 NY Jets 5 4 1 .550 Indianapolis 5 5 0 .500 Miami 5 5 0 .500 New England 5 5 0 .500 
Central 
Cincinnati 8 2 0 .800 Houston 7 3 0 .700 Cleveland 6 4 0 .600 Pittsburgh 2 8 0 .200 
Wnt 
Denver 5 5 0 .500 LA Raiders 5 5 0 .500 Seattle 5 5 0 .500 San Diego 2 8 0 .200 Kansas City 1 8 1 .150 
Monday's Reaulta Houston 24, Cleveland 17 
Sunday's Reaulta 
Chicago 28, Tampa Bay 10 
Indianapolis 38, NY Jets 14 
NY Giants 29, Dallas 21 
Minnesota 44. Detroit 17 
Atlanta 20, Green Bay 0 
Philadelphia 30, LA Rams 24 
New Engalnd 21, Miami 10 
Cincinnati 42, Pittsburgh 7 
Phoenix 24, Sna Francisco 23 
Washington 27, New Ofleans 24 
Denver 17, Kansas City 11 
Buffalo 13, Seattle 3 
LA Raiders 13, San Diego 3 
Sundey'a Games 
Chicago at Washington 
Cincinnati at Kansas City 
Indianapolis at Green Bay 
New England at NY Jets 
Philadelphia at Pittsburgh 
San Diego at Atlanta 
Tar;ppa Bay at Detroit 
LA Raiders at San Francisco 
New Orleans at LA Rams 
NY Giants at Phoenix 
Cleveland at Denver 
Houston at Seattle 
Minnesota at Dallas 
Monday's Games 
Buffalo at Miami 
PF PA 219 199 238 219 243 236 233 211 169 211 
192 123 249 179 129 210 160 207 175 261 
266 180 214 176 222 196 189 244 
PF PA 212 142 220 222 243 183 186 203 176 209 
294 185 239 230 170 156 196 279 
207 206 204 219 161 187 119 199 123 166 

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, November 9, 1988 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272.a827 
Matt "Schmeal" Gallagher lor VP 
II you need a nde to Columbus this weekend--call X42051 
ACADEMIC&USINESS TYPING 237-111411 
Ride offered to1rom Ann Arbor this Friday, retumong Saturday at 6 p.m. Call 272· 7690 or 2804. 
' LOST/FOUND I 
HELP! Someone picked up my new L.L. Bean Flying Tiger leather jacket during the Halloween party at Sen10r Bar Sal. night. Any info call Mike at 287-5502 no questions asked. Please return It-it was my only warm Jackel. 
LOSTIII I left my PEUGEOT watch in the pool room on Thursday 1 ()27 between 
2:30 and 4:00PM. ~ is gold and silver woth a while lace and a moon dial. REWARD. No questions call GREG 283-1653. 
................................................................ 
$$$$ REWARD $$ 20.00 $$ REWARD $$$$ 
Bookbag taken at South Dining. DESPERATELY need 2 yellow spiral "Eiectrophyaics" nlbks in there. Call laura 28t7 or 2815. $$$$$$$$$ 20.00 REWARD $$$$$$$$$$$ 
LOST: room keys with 202 on them on "KAL" key ring probably at BURNING HOUSE about six weeks ago ALSO LOST: blue Macro text ("Sly") call Sly at 3122 il you have inlo 
lost: PRESCRIPTION GLASSES on the way lrom Washington to North dining In peach case, glasses del1< green (almost black) Please let me know I lound them! Carrie X2724 
.................................................. 
LOST: Jean jacket with grey collar. Last seen in Senior Bar Coat Room on Fri. night. II lound,call Erik at 1208. 
LOST: BLUE BOOI<BAG ON MONDAY, 11·7 AT BOOKSTORE (POSSIBLY TAKEN BY MISTAKE). PLEASE CALL JIM x3559. 
LOST or STOLEN: s;;;;;·;;;;k..;~k·k~;;, 
South Dining Hall on Tues. Nov. 8. The name MATT AYERS was clearly on the back pack label. II lound. call 3805 with no questions asked. 
LOSTIJ LARGE GOLD TONE BRACELET AT 818 GRACE ON OCT 
28. CALL ERIC AT X38831ll 
........................................ 
Whoever look-accidently I'm sure my blue knapsack from south dining hall, 1 really need those notes. Please return to south or call Jean at 271·9885. 
tiei:P·,·;·i·~~·i;;;;i·;;;v·g~~-~··;;;;;,..;;;, 
see to take notes In claaslll you've found a pair ol pinlotose nmmed glasses in brown leatherish case, please call x3782· -my G.P.A. depends on you I Thanks. 
Found ~~i ;;;;;;·c;d·~~;-~..;;~~;·;~ LaFortune. Please call x3782. 
L:os:r·:·:.\"i;~~--~;;;;;;ii;;",~··;;~v··;~ 
LaFortune. II you have found it, please contact Andy at 283-1876. Thanks. 
L:os:r·:·fi;;;g·;~··t:.;~·-R;;;;;;;·~;· ............. 
Lafortune on 1117 GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE Raward Reward Call I 2614 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 21D­2111-7153. 
;;oo·ii-;;.:L.AGii..FAfili·~-:~·8~ 
Juat 20 mlna. 1rom NO. lc!Mitor all NO IICtlvltlee. Ree.w now.ll11-471-5711. 
j;;;;:;;j~-~"1'2'~;;;;;;-~ 
,_campua.272-413011 
FuiiNisiieo..HCilise··c:i:osE··-ro··No. 
AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES· TEA. 287-6389 OR 883·8889. 
WANTED 
I need Penn Stata tix more than anyone here! Rick 4235 
Help! Need ride to Pm or CENTRAL PA. lor THANKS BREAK. Wll share ex· pensee. Can leave Wednesday. Kansn x4041 

STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE Apple Computer, Inc. Ia looking for a motivated, enthualaatlc Individual to 
be a Student Rep.....,tallva at Notns Dame. Knowledge of Maclntoah aoftwaN producta aa -n aa owner· ahlp of a Maclntoah Ia dealrwd. You ahould be a tnsahman, aophomora or junior and be marl<etlng oriented. We raqulra 5-10 hour8 (a -)of your time. You will help organize and run eventa u wall aa put up poatara and dlatrtbute ftyera. If you ens lnt-'ed, pleua call 312-3119-4803 and leave your name and a time you can be ruched. 
................................................................ 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS lor $$$ Only 3 blocks lrom campus. Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. Just oft N.D. Ave. Ph# 233-2342 
ALASKA now hiring. Logging, cona1., llahlng, nuraaa, ta8Chera, etc. Excel­lent pay. For mons Information call 206-748-7544 ax1. A-415. 
RESORT HOTELS, Crulaallnea, Air· 11.,.., I Amuaament Parl<a, NOW ac· ceptlng application• lor aummer )oba lntamahlpa, and ca..-poaltlona. For more lnfonnatlon and an application, wrtta National Collegiate Recnsatlon Service, PO Box 807 4, Hilton Heed, SC 291138. 
Full Time Nanny 2 Young Children Proteaalonal Child Care Light Houaa WorM>rganlzetlonel 
Skllla 
Excellent Salary I Benetti Program Send Resume To: Marlkay Cochran Dealgn Time P.O. Box 2027 Elkhart, IN 48515 
OVERSEAS JOBS. SIIOII-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round,AII Countrlea, All ftelda. Frwe Info. Write JJC, PO Bx 52· IN04-Corone Del Mar, CA 92825 
RIDERS TO WASH,DC AREA OR SOMEWHERE ALONG THE WAY.LV.11120 RETURN tt-27 CALL KATE 284-5009 B4 FRIDAY 3:00. 
FOR SALE 
Government Homealrom $1.00. "U ~lr". Also tex delinquent property. call BO!HI44·9533, Ext. 
10211 for Info. 
BBO­
STON.BOSTON•BOSTON•BOSTON For sale: round trip plane tickets lrom Chicago to Boston lor Thanksgiv· ing.Piease call Beth x3705 
1980 Granada air. FWAM, $1,000 277· 8752, alter 5 PM. 
FOR SALE: A HEWLETT-PACKARD 28S CALCULATOR BRAND NEWI GOOD PRICE 283-4364 
NO-USC PACKAGE $375 "'1370 
'85 hobie cat 16 w1railer,many extras call 1868 
TICKETS 
NEED PENN STATE TIX··PLEASE CALL SHEILA-·271·9365 
M·~·iii~--~~--~i~ ..~~-·No ·;i·~~i~--~t-~h~ needs a ticket lor PENN STATE (either GA or student) Please call Beth x1264. 
_;;;;..;;;,;;;;j·p-e;;;i-.i··:rix.ii'2"(3';;.:;·:;;~~id··;;;; 
really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call wa~er x2151 or michelle x2844 
·····-;;~·iij:;;··;;;·~;:;~·sl:·aA":;i····· 
fJkay, I'll pay good money lor them, but I really need 2 GA's. Call Kathleen at 283-4220. 
i.NEio..P'eN·i-.i..s:r;;.TE:-:rici<E:rs..iN..A 
BIG BAD WAY. ALL GA'S, ALL 20 OF THEM. THATS RIGHT-TWENTY. CALL BOOGER AT 287·5871 TODAY. CALL TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A FREE GINSU KNIFE SET-DON'T DELAY-CALL TODAY JIJ 
i-.ie.eo.P'eNNsr-:riCi<E-Ts··c;·;;.u·i:iii<e: 
1628 
My··p;;;;;;;i;..;;;~id·-~~..i~..~-ii;;;··-;;··; 
IRISH pounce on Penn State. I NEED 2 GAs. Lisa. 233-6407. Thnx. 
;:o;;·,..;;c;R"·aooo..so:·c:A"t:·siiAT8: 
NEED 2-1. CALl. KEVIN COLLECT AT 
(105) 1148-11111. LEAVE MESSAGE. 
Ne.eo·P-ei-.iN·s;:·:r·.x-iiii'Rv··;w;·;······· ................................................................ 
$$$$$$$$$$ IN ABSOLUTE DESPERATE NEED OF 2 PENN ST. GA'S. CALL MIKE 3531 OR COME TO 320 KEENAN GOOD LUCK MICHAEL MESSAGUA 
Pretty please with a CHERRY on lop (no pun, guya). I need lOur Penn St. GAs. Jeff x2377. 
................................................................ 
Six Penn State GA's Best Offer by 11/IUIS CALL (616) 962-1864 need at least 2 penn st. ga's chris at 1352. 
The respect ol an older brother· isn't it wondertul? In order to retain my brother's respect I need 2 PENN STATE lixl!l Have pily-3767 
NEED PENN STATE G.A. & STUDENT TIX CALL DON I 272-0456 
ssssss 

NEED PENN ST. GA'S CALL TASHA X4072 
ssssss 

HELP HELP HELP NEED 2 PENN ST. STUDS CALL BILL x4306 
Need Penn Stale tickets, student and GA. Jamie 1121 
OHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 TICKETS PENN STATE GAME. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 PM 216-633-1072 FRANCIS. 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC TIX JIM 3371 
I need Penn St. GA's & student tickets. 271·83t1 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S·-DAN x4115 
I NEED 1 USC TICKET PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 
HELP! NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'SIJ CALL 277·1513 
PLEASE I NEED 4 TO 6 GAS FOR PENN $$NO OBJECT PLEASE CALL DAVE AT X 227511 
I NEED PENN ST. GA'S AND I WILL NOT STOP AT ANY COSTII$$ PLEASE CALL ANDY AT 1930 OR JUUE AT 2791. 
I NEED 3 PENN ST TIXI X4002 CATHY. 
I NEED PENN STATE TIX STUD OR GA, --3 JIM 1935 
I Need 1 PENN ST Student Tik Please Call Alicia x3097 
I NEED 2 PENN ST GA'S I 2 STUD call Mary I 2205 
HELP! I need 3 PennS!. tickets. CALL MARY X3782 ANYTIME!IJ 
PLEASE! I NEED TWO PENN STATE STUD OR GA'S.$$$1 CALL COLLEEN x2882. Thankal 
HELP I 2 Penn St. GAs are all I need Call Tina at x4846 
For Sale: round trip ticket lrom SB to u~c tW1·1W8 caJJ272-1992 
I NEED ONE PENN STATE GA OR STU· DENT PLEASE CALL SAM AT 239·6696 
STILL BADLY IN NEED OF 6 PENN ST TIX 4 GA & 2 STUD CALL 1767 
3 PENN ST. STUD TIX 4 SALE TOP OFFER BY FRIDAY NO OFFER, NO RESPONSEIII LEAVE MESSAGE AT X3201 
NO GIMMICKS.JUST CASH.! MUST GET 1 PENN ST. STUDENT TICK· ET.CALL STEVE AT X1603. 
NEED 1Q-12 GA's FOR PENN ST. SJNGLES,PAIRS,ETC ... MARTY 1104 
I need PENN ST tix. please call BRIAN x2131 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. CALL JO 284-4337 ASAP 
'NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST. PLEASE CALL MB 284-5012 
I need penn stale tickets. call at 277· 6224. 
Hello. I need Penn State GAs. Call 3488. Goodbye. 
I'M HAVING A BIG SIBS WEEKEND, SO I NEED PENN STATE TfX BILL X4640 
I need 2 USC tickets Please help me out H you have any. Call Bob al x3847. 
I NEED TICKETSIJIJIII PENN STATE GA'SIIIIII PLEASEIIJ CALL THERESA AT X41891$$$$ 
GA'SI GA'SI GA'SI I NEED PENN STATE TIXSI CALL MONICA AT 41891 $$$$$$ 
YOU WANT TO SELL ME YOUR PENN GA'SI CALL HEIDI AT 3880 FOR$$$$$ 
Morn will destroy me unless I buy a Penn Stale ga lor her.Andrew 4259. 
I NEED A STUDENT PENN STATE TICKET Please call Saba x2728 
i-.iP';~~-shtt;·(3'A:~·;~·-;'8'.Ci.w:.\vii.c;;i• 
Molly X1321. 
j;i:Eiis'E..iiEiY..i:ie.iii"i.~-;;;;d··s· ..;;ej:.ji-.i 
STATE student tix or GA's Please call Teek at 288-9303 anytime. 
................................................................. 
I NEED GOOD PENNST. GA--WILL PAY $$$ MATT 4521 
NEED penn GA x-31 00 
I WILL DO ALMOST ANYTHING FOR PSU GA'S ?II CALL MARY AT284425911 
..................... 
1 PENN STATE ticket lor sale call Liz x 4957 
NEED PENN ST. TIX-STUD OR GA MAGS 3322. 
Need 2 Penn Stale GA'a. call Shewn x2380. $$$$$ 
Need PSU lix stu or GA Call Chris at 277-7384 
Need 3 PENN ST stud. Scott 1730 
I need 5 PENN ST stud tix call X3884 or X3839 
NEED 7 PENN STATE GA'S CALL 284· 4336 
DESPERATELY SEEKING USC TIXtl WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL KATHLEEN AT 284-5039. 
................................................................ 
NEEDED-2 STUDENT OR GA'S FOR 
PENN STATE. CALL SUE 284·5063. 
PERSONALS 
N.D. 
CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 

S. 
FIGUEROA, L.A., CA 90037. 213-741· 1338. 


$$$$$ PENN STATE TIX WANTED GA OR STUD TIX CALL 234-1 048 .... jen. 
hi ag. 
WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? 
WHAT DO THEY DO? 
COME SEE...EXPO ROMA'BB 
belore long a lemale student will be se­lected to represent NO at thhe bowl game. let's not embarrass ND again. lei's pick someone with a little class who knows something about the Irish. 
CLUB 23 The beat atuffed pizza In town. Groupa welcome. 234-3541. 
MORAL OUTRAGE-Buah 
.....................................................! .......... 
I need a ride to LOUISVILLE lor Thanks· giving. Leave early Tuesday, Nov. 22. Name terms. Call T.J. at 1 3810 
UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277-8889 
THIS WEEK ONLY-UNIV PIZZA DLVY BEATS THE REST. GIVE OUR DRIVER ANY OTHER STORE'S COUPON AND WE'Ll TAKE $1 OFF YOUR HALF OR FULL SHEETIII OPEN UNTIL 3 AM FRI-'SAT 277-8889 
HEY SENIORS ... Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell Going to an SYR is hell. You and I, we both know that, The Christmas Formal is where it's at. 
Be sure to sign-up before you leave for Thanksgiving ... HO 
HO HO 
Clua ol '89 ... 
Christmas Formal 1988 
It's our last Noel together. Be there on Dec. 2 
SENIORS!!! THE SKI TRIP IS COMING. Hot Tubs, Slopes, and Parties-Get ReadyII 
CHOICES AND CHALLENGES FOR AN EMERGING LAY LEADERSHIP WED.-NOV.9·7:30 PM 
P.E. CHAPEL with Fr. Michael Himes 
Dr. Doris Donelly ALL ARE WELCOME 
TO: the preffy redhead wearing a whne CORNELL sweatshirt with red 1ette111, who was studying 
on the 2nd Aoor ol the 'brare Sunday afternoon. PS You left with a blue ND backpack and 
green vest. Are you busy this weekend? ·Interested 
Can anyone give me a ride to CincinMti lor Thanksgiving Break? Please call Jen· niler at x2128. 
"Sten the B•recude." Kralter and Judge 
MATH TUTOR-234-3878. 
NEED RIDE to North. NEW JERSEY lor 
Thanksgiving. Can leave anytime lrom 
Tues I t-22 on. Call Chris 
X 2773 
...........~ .................................................... 

COMEDY JAM COMEDY JAM COMEDY JAM COMEDY JAM 
1 Thurs. Nov. 10 at9pm in Thea's FREE FREE FREE -D or SMC ID 
CONECTtWESTCHSTR & ROCKLND 
CTS. XMAS BUS TRIP $90 Sign up and deposit Monday & Tuesday, 14 & 15, 5:3Q-6:30 lalortune Lobby near Info. Desk 
..................... Who let the chickens out ol the coop? Go Lewis beat BPI 
2 DATES NEEDED FOR THE "WHAT IS THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATION· SHIP?" SEMINAR THIS SAT. CALL MIKE AND RICK AT X3305. WE THANK U FER YER SUPPORT. 
LAURA the Dough Boy, I ligured you would stop by since you know where I live. Please do so or write here. 
·The Flasher 
P.S. You can keep my wallet. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! THE PROOFS FROM THE FORMAL HAVE ARRIVED II COME TO THE CLASS OFFICE ON 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE DURING OF· FICE HOURS TO BUY PICTURES TIL NOV 11 OH-SWEET MEMORIES! 
FOR SALE: USC TRIP TIXI BEST OF· FER I CALL MISSY 284-4381 
SKII Happy Belated 21st B·Day! Finally. it's sale to enter a hotel room again. Wanna meet me at the Days In· n??????????? 
-a Chemic ex-convict 
HEY-IF YOU WERE AT HASBROOK'S AND ROONEY'S TOWNHOUSE FOR THE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION ON 1115 (SATURDAY) AND YOU KNOW WHO SWIPED OUR REMOTE CON­TROL FOR THE T.V., CALL US AT 277· 7280 OR WE'LL NEVER HAVE THE 
SAME CROWD OVER AGAIN. IF YOU HAD A LOT OF FUN LIKE WE DID, PLEASE HELP US OUT OR WE'LL LOSE THE SHIRTS OFF OF OUR BACKS TRYING TO GET ANOTHER ONE .... CALL US. 
IF YOU DIDN'T APPRECIATE THE OUTBURST DIRECTED AT OUR NA· TION'S VICE-PRESIDENT WHEN HE CAME TO SPEAK TO US, CALL THAT WEASIL Y LITTLE LIBERAL NAMED JEFF AT x3136 ANY TIME DAY OR NIGHT TO LET HIM KNOW. THANK YOU. 
CRIME at Notre DamelMissing:Chris White's BIG SWIG. Any info? Contact the Big Guy at Stanford. 
HEY Chris Whrte! We heard you had something BIG but now we've got it. BQI you're pretty sore. We'll ba in touch fl you wanl it back. 
S&J: Why not? The heal's lrorn me. Ouch! II you have any free time... rt's your decision. II you or any one needs a dale... Elvis! You ~hould have gotten her something lrom AVON! Love, Barb 
Attention All SMC Freshman Tlckata for the Fnsahman Formal Paint the Town Red Will be aold on Wed and Thura November 9 and 10 In all the donna 
Needed 2 Penn Slate Tix call 284·5545 
Hey Ticket lady, Happy Birthday! love the Ticket Man 
Good luck Lewis. But at the end ol the game YOU'LL be smeared All over the lield 
Top quotes from Fri. niles's adven lure in a While Lincoln: Have you ever drunk lrom a hose? I think I'll just have water. C'mon guys, leave your waitress a tip. I can't believe we got thrown out by a lady in a cheerleading outlill This is my son and daughter, can th y come in? Hey, babe, you live in Niles, don't you? I drunk out ol a hose I HEYC&L, 
Ramernber our dele at Gipper's and Common's next August. Maybe we'll even be in a whrte Lincoln ... cruizin', ol courseII 
MAD 

MODEL UNITED NATIONS SIMULA­TION will be held THURSDAY, Nov. 10 
In 124 Hayea-IWJy 1rom 7 to 9:30 p.m. Bring reaolutlone and a friend. We will be Judging In order to take paople to W•ahlngton In Aprtll 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JOIN THE CLASS OF 1990 AT: BEACON BOWL THIS THURSDAY AT 11:30 
"John Blulla • male alut." -T.C. 
Anyone interested in photos ol Sera Mar· 
ley's weekend in D.C. should contact 
Chris at x2163. 
JUNIORS 
JUNIORS 
CLASS DINNER AT SENOR KELLY'S 
THIS FRIDAY !HIPM $3 ALL YOU CAN 
EAT TACO BAR DIRECTIONS OUT­
SIDE JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE-2nd 
FLOOR LAFORTUN RIDES LEAVE 
MAIN CIRCLE AT 4:45,5:45,8:45 CALL 
THE OFFICE FOR MORE INFO (238­
5117) BE A PART OF THE CLASS OF 
19901 
WEARING EPCOT CENTER# 88 SHIRT, RED BANDANA, EATING MEAT· LOAF IN NOH 1 V4,5:30 WHO ARE YOU?ARE YOU TAKEN?BECAUSE...WE DON'T WANT TO MEET YOUIWE NEVER WANT TO SEE YOU AGAINIRESPOND HERE THE DINNER WENCHES FROM HELL 
KAREN, HAVE A GREAT DAYI ·JOHN 
Do we mean "revealing photos" or should that be "unrevealing photos?" Take a guess. 
To the PW Football team: Thanks lor a great season and lor giving us the op­portunity to coach. We are very proud ol you gals. Love: Dave,Dave,Brian.l3rian. & Ben 
SENIOR BLOCK PARTY 
THE PLACE TO BE ON FRIDAY, NOV KICK OFF PENN STATE WEEKEND IN STYLE 
JACC FROM 3-6PM 
2 NEED THANKSGIVING RIDE TO PITTS X4953 
Ride needed to Parkersburg WV or near it (east on 70) this wkd 1111 t. Call Susan 2722. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOI So, you're linally 
181 Thanks lor beong such a wonderful lriendl Love ya'lots, Steph 
CALL YOUR FRIENDS ABROAD I Win a 15 min. phone call to any country, cour­tesy ol Notre Dame's student govern­ment and Alumni Association. • Chances are $ .50 each and will be sold in the dining halls on Wed. and Thurs. Ques· 11ons? Call Mary x136.1 
24 hour Student Loung is OPENIII Lo­cated in the OaK Room South Dining Hall I!! 
FREDDY is commingl Freddy Jones Band Freddy Jones Band The Freddy Jones Band at Bndgts Thur&IFri 
MIKE Thanks lor last weekend (Thurs· 
Sun) and I hope you have a lint-lree 
weekend in D.C. Good luck with the in· 
terview, I know they'll be impressed. Say 
hello to the Admiral lor me. 
3 Seconds Away 
P.S. Good luck on Saturday too. 
Daedalus. who are you? Please reply 
Cincinnati anyone? Need ride lor break. Will pay $$$. Call Jen I 2550 
KATIE WOULFE IS: (a) a D•ahar (b) a Dancer (c) a Pr8ncer (d) a VIXEN KATIE WOULFE IS: (a) an Aaroamlth groupaa (b) a cleaning lady a1 St. Joe High School (c) a Linebacker Lounge lingerie girt (d) a deapsnste M.R.S. major KATIE WOULFE'S FAVORITE HOBBIES ARE: (e) primping her heir 
(b) playing malch-maker (c) mooning motor1ata on U.S.31 (d) dr8gglng live guya to a farmer'a lteld I "hoeing down" 
RIDE NEEDED TO BOSTON lor Thanks· giving. leaving 11118 or later. will s hare. call maureen 3948 or kate 360 7 
usc 
PACKAGE 
FOR 
SALE 
$400 or BEST OFFER.Muat sell to girl. 
Call Erin at 284-4310. 
KATHY HARDIEK IS 19 TODAY II 
KATHY HARDIEK IS 19 TODAY II 
c'AL:i:·i<A:riiv··;e;;;sii:v··;;R·usriiA-TEo: 
HARDIEK AND WISH HER AN ·uNHAPPY BIRTHDAY" 284·5087. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY "E.F." 
HAPP'v"iiiR'rii.o:.\v'i<An:tviiiii·····-........ 
MORRISSEY LOVES YOU .... 
weN.oe·u:::vou'ii'j:.j(i;:·-;;.·;;;;;~A·;;ii ......... 
ooN:;:····FoiiCier···:ro····w·lsii····;;;ii<i.E 
(A.K.A.·LIOANNE HOGE) A HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY! 

Wednesday, November 9, 1988 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said Tuesday he would love to play top-ranked Notre Dame in a postseason bowl game, but he's going to leave the worrying to bowl selection committees. "Anybody that plays Notre Dame ... is going to fill the stands and the airwaves, from Rome to Tokyo, especially Rome" said Bowden. "I think everybody will want to play Notre Dame especially when Notre Dame is having a great year which they're doing. Notre Dame is the number one collegiate football program in the world. They were when I was a little boy and they still are." -Associated Press 
Jose Canseco, the first major leaguer to hit 40 homers arid steal 40 bases in one season, was selected The Associ­ated Press Player of the Year on Tuesday. The Oakland right fielder received 141 :1!2 votes from a panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. Los Angeles right-hander Orel Hershiser was runner-up with 13 votes followed by Minnesota's Kirby Puckett with five votes and Boston's Mike Greenwell with 4 :1!2. -Associated Press 
Joe Garagiola, one of the first former athletes to become a star sportscaster, is le-aving NBC after 27 years because the network delayed negotiations on a new contract and left the impression he was no longer wanted. ­
Associated Press 
The USF&G Flag Football tournament will be held this weekend, Friday through Sunday. NVA will be accept­ing entries until Thursday at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Garrett 
continued from page 16 
tain of the team, his role is cru­cial. 
"This is what we're building up for," said Garrett. "If we don't run well at districts we don't get to NCAA's. 
"My job is just trying to keep 
the runners confident and up­
beat," said Garrett. "The big 
thing is to act kind of as a 
liaison between coach (Piane) 
and the team." 
Both his teammates and his 
coach agree that he does an ex­
cellent job as captain. 
"He not only says the right 
things but he demonstrates 
through his example, his sin­cerity," said Piane. "He does everything I can ask and he does it well. 
"He is also not afraid to com­municate with me. He has a good ~ense of how the team feels." 
Senior Ron Markezich, who has been a teammate of Dan's for the last four years, agreed. 
"Dan has really helped me," said Markezich. "He's a great captain. He keeps the team to­gether. He's been a great leader since high school." 
Besides the NCAA race, Gar­rett holds the Notre Dame record in the outdoor 5000­meter race, running the 3.1­mile circuit in 14:10. Last year, he was the top finisher in all but one race. 
The Off-Campus hockey team will have a meeting Friday at 4:30p.m. in LaFortune near the Sorin Room. A schedule of ice times will be handed out as part of this meeting. All players are expected to attend. Any questions should be directed to John Kirk l.lt 289-1124. -The Observer 
The NO-Air Force wrestling dual meet Sunday. has been changed from 2 p.m. Sunday to 1 p.m. -The Observer 
Irish Insanity will hold a meeting today at 8 p.m. in the Reynolds Room on the third floor of LaFortune. Activ­ities for basketball and hockey seasons will be discussed. All are welcome. -The Observer 
An SMC coed wallyball tournament will be held Friday and Saturday. Teams consist of two females and two males. The entry deadline is today at 5 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Call284-5549 for more information. 
-The Observer 
A fencing demonstration will be held at the fencing gym above gate 4 of the Joyce ACC today at 7:30 p.m Demonstrators are three-time U.S. Olympian Michael Marx, 1986-87 Notre Dame MVP Derek Holeman and L.E.P. Greg Meuller. -The Observer 
An NVA scuba meeting will be held today. The brief informational meeting will be at the Rockne Memorial room 218 at 6:30p.m. Classes will start the following Sunday. 
-The Observer 
In high school, -he. led his team to an undefeated season and a state championship in his senior year. His team was the first in New York history to be rated number one from begin­ning to end of the season. 
Despite all his accomplish­ments, Garrett has had his share of setbacks. He missed his entire sophomore season due to tendonitis in his hip. 
"That injury was really frustrating," said Garrett. "I had been running since the seventh grade and then I couldn't run at all. I still went to all the meets, trying to be a part of the team even though I wasn't running." 
Recently, Garrett has expe­rienced an unexplained set­back in his running. For some unapparent reason, his times have risen over the last two meets. 
"Technically speaking, I've been running like dogmeat," Garrett said. "But that doesn't mean that I'm done for the season." 
Neither Piane nor the run­ners have been excessively concerned with this lapse in Garrett's performance, because they know his capabili­ties. 
"Dan is as hard a worker as anyone," said Piane. "He al­ways gives 100 percent." 
Garrett's outlook reflects his success in the past. 
"You take each meet as it comes," said Garrett. "If we 
Sugar 
continued from page 16 1
"ABC doesn't sit on our se­I lection committee," he said. I 
ABC and · the Sugar Bowl I have had a good relationship I for years and recently ex­I 
I
tended their contract, he said. "But they don't become in­I 
I
volved in making decisions. I When it comes to the point that I we have to make a decision-­I beyond Notre Dame--we will I 
I
make the decision," he said. Again, Holmes was asked 
1
whether the Sugar Bowl might 
I
sever its contract with the SEC, 
I since the league's intramural I schedule almost guarantees I losses that hurt rankings. I I I
"It's certainly a question that our executive committee will have to address pretty soon, because we have a negotiation period coming up," Holmes said. 
"I think that if you look at it over the long haul, the SEC has been awfully good to the USF.&G Sugar Bowl. At the same time, the Sugar Bowl has b~en awfully good to the SEC." 
run well, we realize it will help the team get to nationals. If we run poorly, we look over and see what we did. We're just trying to peak towards the end of the season." 
As for future plans, Garrett wants running to be a part of his life. 
"I'll always be active," said Garrett. "I want to run com­petitively, but it's not like pro­fessional football where that's all you do. I'm not sure what's going to happen. It could just be jumping in a road race in my home town." 
"I think his future is still in front of him," said Piane. "Danny is still very young and has a brilliant future ahead of him." 



: 8 pm ~ 
************************************* ***************** ~ ... . . i
~ Come § 
~ §
i Cross that Border... I ~ WED Nights! i 
~ § 
~ Remember... a ~ F L i
i a 
I ~ 2:00-2:00 i 
i= = HOURS: 9:00 -2:00 J-·=! 
• IIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIHIIIHIIIUHIHM...Illl 


page 14 The Observer Wednesday, November 9, 1988 
Offensive tackle Dean Brown (left, 
71) stuffs Rice linebacker Richard Duggan (59), while split end Raghlb Is· mall (right) snares a pass In the Stan­ford game. Both players are fea­tured below.· 


~. 
._.~ 

The Observer I Trey Reymond The Observer FMike Ury 
Rocket launches career as a receiver, kick returner 
athelete and a person. He's aBy BRIAN O'GARA up a go-ahead touchdown not reciever.' My first feeling We take special teams as an­real inquisitive guy--he wantsSports Writer against Miami and his first col­was of helplessness. As running other offensive play--its one of to watch films and ask ques­

legiate touchdown against back you have the defenders in the biggest plays in college 
tions so he can learn things and When Raghib Ismail carne to Purdue. sight and could give them a football." 

learn to do things well." 

visit Notre Dame last spring, One of Ismail's greatest little of what they're giving With the two returns of 83 and It is that attitude that madeall he wanted to see was the weapons is his well-publicized you. But at .receiver you're 87 yards, Ismail moved to the Ismail a fast learner atfootball field tunnel and Touch­speed. The Grace Hall fresh­going up for the ball with your top spot in the nation in kickoff receiver. And he had a lot todown Jesus. man has run the 40 in 4.18 back to the defender." returns by averaging just over learn.
"We walked out onto the seconds last summer at a AAU But the new position has been 37 yards a return, over six "As a running back all I had field," recalls Ismail, "and practice, and recorded a 4.28 kind to Ismail. He is a vital part yards more per return than his to worry about was running
then walked all the way down average after two runs on the of a 9-0 top-ranked team and closest rival. to the other end zone, looked first day of football workouts had a key block of a field-goal Ismail cited Steve Belles' fast," says Ismail. "But now 
attempt in the second game of I've got to read coverages and 
around and there it was. And I in August. crushing block that sprung him said 'Oh wow, this is great. I've A standout tailback in high the season at Michigan State. for the final 40 yards of his first learn different ways of running got to come here.' " school, Ismail accounted for And Saturday the Rocket ex­return on Saturday. routes and blocking--oh my 
That trip down the field to the over 7300 yards and 74 touch­ploded. After several close "Out of my peripheral vision goodness--blocking bigger de­
end zone does not take nearly downs in 26 games at Meyers calls to breaking the big one, I saw a guy chasing me," fensive backs. as long this fall for the fresh­High School. But when the Rocket took horne two kickoffs recalls Ismail. "Then POW, he ''There are a lot of little man from Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Rocket stepped on the Notre for touchdowns as the Irish was gone. Today I saw it on things that I knew nothing The nickname says it all. He's Dame campus this fall, he routed Rice 54-11. films and I couldn't believe it. about when I was a running 
The Rocket. wasn't taking handoffs in the "All year long we would pass He got a 'Tyson' on that one--he back," says Ismail. "Its like all 
"I got that nickname in backfield, he was fearing the first wall of blockers," says crushed him." starting over again. I've eighth grade in track," says Is­taking licks in the secondary. Ismail, "and on the films we As Ismail speaks, he squirms learned a lot but I still have a mail. "My coach said I carrie "I remember telling Coach always see how one more block and gestures. He can't stop long way to go." out of the blocks like a rocket." Holtz that I would play or one other move or just a moving. He can't stop thinking But just he did in eighth 
The freshman split end has anywhere I could contribute," split-second would be the dif­about how badly he wants to grade track, Ismail is out of the had a fast start here at Notre recalls Ismail, whose brother ference between a 30-yard gain succeed on the football field. blocks for a speedy start. And, Dame too. Ismail has caught Qadry is a running back at and a touchdown. "He's got such a great atti­lucky for the Irish, the race nine passes this season for 198 Syracuse. "Then I found out the "We work so hard at it in tude," says receivers coach he's running will make him a yards, including a 58-yard first day that I was going to be practice. The coaches always Pete Cordelli. "You can see weapon for Notre Dame for a bomb from Tony Rice that set split end and I thought, 'Oh no, tell us to play like we practice. why he is such a success as an long time. 
Easy-going Brown saves intensity for playing field 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 

Dean Brown is something of an enigma. 
Notre Dame's junior offen­sive tackle excels at a position which requires a tremendous amount of intensity by main­taining an easy-going personal­ity. 
"He's one of the easier-going kids on the team," said Irish offensive line coach Joe Moore. "He's not a very intense per­son, or an ill-tempered person. He's just a nice kid." 
Brown has become an inte­gral part of the offensive line since taking over at the tight tackle position early in spring practice. The Canton, Ohio, na­tive was moved from guard to tackle in order to bolster an of­fensive line depleted by the graduation of its senior mem­bers. 
The offensive line, widely considered one of the major question marks for the Irish before the season began, has 
suddenly come into its own. 
Brown compares the line to a 
well-oiled machine. 
"The offensive line is like a 
machine, and each position is 
like one little piece of the rna­
chine," said the 6-3, 283-pound 
junior. "If one person lets 
down, he lets everybody else 
within that unit down. That's 
the attitude of all offensive 
linemen. I can truly say that 
the guys we have on the line 
are competitors in the rawest form." 
"Dean's a very important part of that machine," adds Moore. "His inexperience and his inconsistency show up once in a while, but when he's hum­ming on all cylinders, he's a pretty darn good player." 
Moore points to Brown's enormous strength and quick­ness as his most important as­sets. These are as much a product of horne cooking as of extensive training in the Loftus Sports Center. 
"The weight program that's set up now is really intense," said Brown. "It's the best I've been a part of. The strength co­ach (Scott Raridon) and his as­sistants put a lot of time and effort into trying to get us into the weight room and g~tting us to lift the proper things. Of course, I always look forward to going home and getting some of Morn's cooking, too." 
Notre Dame proved to be 'the best college choice for Brown since it was close to home and offered the right blend of ath­letics and academics. The three-year letterman out of McKinley . High School in Canton believes the three years he's spent under the Dome have brought him closer to those legendary figures enshrined at the NFL Hall of Fame in his hometown. 
"Football and academics monopolize the vast majority of time we (student-athletes) have in the day," said Brown. "It's difficult trying to prepare mentally for practice every day of the week, trying to get better, and then you've got to shift gears to get the school­work done. 

"But no matter what hap­pens, the mark of a true cham­pion is a person who can handle all the adversity and shift gears a little bit to be mentally strong in any situation he faces." 
Brown likes to "just mellow out and think" while listening to jazz music in the little spare time he does ·have during the week. His thoughts don't center on anything in particular, but run the gamut from past expe­riences to the direction his life may take in the future. He also takes time out of his busy schedule to get acquainted with his fellow residents in Dillon Hall. 
"I try to be personable," said Brown. "I feel that it's impor­tant to stay on a pretty even keel with everybody. I don't have that stereotype that, 'He's a football player, and he has to be arrogant all the time.' I try to set a good example for the freshmen and the people I know in the dorm. I try to adjust to the different people and the way that they act towards me." 
Tony Rice is one particular Dillon resident to whom Brown has adjusted. The junior quar­terback roomed with Brown for two years before this season, and his presence in the Irish backfield serves as an incen­tive for Brown to keep oppo­nents out of that same back­field. 
"I try to keep the guys (opposing defensemen) off all the backs," said Brown. "But it is a good feeling to know that Tony's back there. I've known him so long, he's just like a bro­ther to me. I know what he's thinking all the time. Being in a personal relationship with him makes it a little more gratifying for me." 
By successfully keeping 
these defensive linemen away 
from Rice and the other Irish 
backs, Brown has helped Notre 
Dame get off to its fastest start 
in years. 

Wednesday, November 9, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 
6:00 p.m. Presentation for all math and MCC majors inter­ested in discovering career opportunities with the Great American Insurance Company, Room 227 CCMB 
12:1Q-1:00 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
8:00 
p.m. Drug and Alcohol Abuse Joint Lecture for Notre Dame Athletes Only: "Stop the Clock on Alcohol, Drugs, and Suicide," by three former professional athletes--Mike McCoy, Harry Flaherty, and Mike Cobb. Engineering Auditorium. 

8:00 
p.m. SMC Dept. of Music Fall Choral Concert, Nancy Menk, Director. Little Theatre. 


8:10 p.m. NOOMC Theatre presents "Twelfth Night," di­rected by Mark Pilkinton, Washington Hall. Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office weekdays from 12:15-6:00 p.m. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
9:0Q-10;30 a.m. "From Cultural Criticism to Cultural Politics," by Prof. Joseph A. Buttigieg, ND Dept. of English, Room 131 Decio. 
3:30 p.m. "Stability of Three-Dimensional Flow," by Dr. Helen Reed, Arizona State University, 356 Fitzpatraick Hall. 
4:20 p.m. Physics Colloquium: "Metastable phases of mag­netic crystals via epitaxial growth," by Dr. Gary A. Prinz, Naval Research Laboratory, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Reilly Chemical Lecture: "Rapid Redox and Hydrolysis Reactions to Haloagens, Pseudohalogens, and In­ter halogens," by Prof. Dale W. Marjerum. Room 123 
Nieuwland Science Hall. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Brown Derby Sandwich Stuffed Sole Pasta Bar Vegetable Rice Casserole 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Braised Swiss Steak French Bread Pizza Florentine Omelette Deli Bar 
.. 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Ness 5 Deck post 9 Lock of hair 

14 Cupid 15 Ancestor of the 
Edomites 16 Dull 11 Yokel 18 Start of a 

Shakespearean title 19--aves (kin of 41 Across) 20 July 4 explosive 23 Due follower 24 Dream inits. 
25 Lower 21 Ship's cable 31 Base 
33 Mother's brother, e.g. 34Whimper 
35 Where 20th-cen. painters hang out? 
38 Surf sound 39 Czech money 40 Declare 41 Lollapalooza 42 Early Greek 
expeditionary ship 43Mr.Tetal. 
44 Call it quits 46 Sharp 47 Meaning 49 Altar on high 50 Impair 51 Meteorologist's 
or motorist's concern 58 Eschew 60 Olive genus 61 "You'll Never 
-,"1943 
song 62 Mineral-
containing stone 63 Habituated 64 Trifling 65 Hell, to Henri 66 Dominion 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 67 Activist 

DOWN 
1 Young hippo 2 Help! in Angers 3 Serve tea · 4 Art Deco 
designer 5 Safari participant 6AII Moslems 7 Useful mineral 8 Protruding tooth 9 Tank top 
-=+-=+±:::-! 10 Genetic inits. ...::..L.=...L:..:..L:...J 11 Bulldozer 
Berke Breathed 
Mike Muldoon 


Buzz McFiattop 
...and NBC projects GEORGE BUSH 
as lbe winner ... 
YeU. you are. Georae ia aoilla lo be on january 201l. 
• 

12 Exempt 13 Manage 21 Canadian Indian 22lnsert 26 Shade of red 27 Poor boy 28 Later 29 British raincoat 30 Hi-li's successor 31 Protrude 32 TV backdrop 
The Far Side 

I 
34 Young salmon 36 Penurious 37 Host 39 Site of Cayes 
and Gona'ives 43 Cries of triumph 45 Wall Street figure 46 Compact 47 Copy 48 Expert 
Distributed by Universal Prns Syndicate 
"Eraser fight!" 
Hosted By... Kevin Matthews The LOOP'S AM 1000 DJ in Chicago . 
Featuring... Ed Fiala Guest on the Tonight Show, Oprah Winfrey Show, 
Wednesday: The Producer
HBO &more! 
Thursday: F/XThursday, Nov. 10 
Friday: A Fish Called Wanda 9pm, Theodore's Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15,$2 
49 Hippodrome 52 Dust-ups 53 Snow clearer 54 Sideslip 55 Loosen a knot 56 Function 57 Wide-mouthed 
pitcher 59 European food fish 
Gary Larson 



Sports

page 16 Wednesday, November 9, 1988 
lnterhall flag football--it's not just for kids anymore 
Photo 
New York Tuesday night. The Knlcks topped Chicago 126-117. 
Knicks top Bulls; Hornets win first 
Special to The Observer Both teams now have 1-2 
records. 

Johnny Newman scored a In other NBA action, former 
career-high 35 points to lead the Irish star Kelly Tripucka 
New York Knicks to a 126-117 scored 24 points to lead the 
victory over the Chicago Bulls Charlotte Hornets to a 117-105 
Tuesday night. win over the Los Angeles Clip­
Michael Jordan had 31 points pers, the first ever for the ex­
for the Bulls, but it was not pansion team. 
enough to stop the Knicks from Atlanta defeated Indiana 112­
recording their first win of the 107. New Jersey outscored 
season. Washington 109-101. 
Michael Jordan scored 31 points, but It was not enough to stop 
Battle of the bowls, cont. 
Sugar Bowl still lists Notre Dame as top priority 
Associated Press Bowl team, as has No.3 Miami, Miami isn't interested in a 
7-1; No.4 West Virginia, 9-0, rematch. 
NEW ORLEANS --The direc­and No.5 Florida State, 8-1. "And if LSU should beat 
tor of the Sugar Bowl says he's Auburn, 8-1 and No.9, is in a Miami on the 19th, they could 
serious about a possible three-way tie in the SEC race be ranked higher than anyone 
matchup between No.1 Notre with Louisiana State Univer­else in the SEC, including 
Dame and the Southeastern sity, 6-2 and No.12, and Geor­Auburn, in the national 
Conference champion. gia, 7-2and No.17. Each has one rankings. 
"I find it interesting and conference loss, Auburn's "LSU is very much involved 
amusing that nobody really defeat by LSU. in the championship picture as 
will take us very seriously as far as the SEC is concerned, 
to where we might stand with "USC and UCLA are two and with that being a fact, 
Notre Dame," Mickey Holmes pretty good football teams and Miami is pretty much on the 
told the New Orleans Quarter­very much in the mix, as far back burner. And Miami un­
back Club. "We feel very good as we are concerned," Holmes derstands that." 
about it. said on Monday. 
"We make no bones about "We have made an effort to "The whole thing boils down 
Notre Dame being our priority. get Miami," he said. "One to that there will be no move­
The people on the West Coast thing we can't allow ourselves ment in any direction by 
know that. The people in West to forget is that LSU could win anybody until Notre Dame 
Virginia know that, the same the SEC championship out­decides how it wants to handle 
in Miami and with Florida right," he said. its postseason appearance," 
State." "I can see a scenario that you Holmes said. 
The loser of the game be­should think about, and that's He said the ABC network will 
tween No.2 Southern Cal, 8-0, that LSU beats Miami. That's have no say in the decision. 
and No.6 UCLA, 8-1, has been the reason we can't get too ex­
mentioned as a possible Sugar cited about Miami, because see SUGAR, page 13 
He's a rare Irish All-American 
Top-1 0 NCAA runner Garrett leads NO cross country 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO just fine, running the 6.2-mile 
Sports Writer course in 29:24.74, which is 
averaging 4.7 minutes for each 

It isn't every year that Notre mile on the course. · 
Dame is the home of one of the "Frankly, I was somewhat 
top 10 NCAA runners in the surprised," said cross country 
country. coach Joe Piane. "He placed 
In fact, it has been 24 years. fifth in districts, so I thought 
Dan Garrett, a fifth-year he might finish in the top 10 or 
senior completing his final 15. Dan ran very well, and 
year of eligibility on the men's when the track season rolled 
cross country team, finished around he proved that his per­
sixth overall in the 10,000-formance was not a fluke." 
meter NCAA Championship 

race last year, the best finish Now, the second-year cap­
by a Notre Dame runner since tain from Clarence Center, 
1964. said Garrett. "I thought I had New York, is playing a vital 
Garrett's awesome perfor­a chance at making All­role in the team's quest of 
mance was representative of American (top 30 runners in the reaching the NCAA Champion­
the entire team effort last year, race), so I got out in that race ships for a second straight 
improving with every meet, and after two miles I caught year. If the team achieves this 
peaking at the NCAA Cham­the lead group. goal, it will be the first time the 
pionships. The team finished "When I found myself in that Irish have done it since 1966. 
seventh at the race, which was group I couldn't believe it," To get there, the Irish will 
also its best since 1964. Garrett continued. "Towards have to race extrememly well 
Garrett surprised a lot of the finish people started kick­in the upcoming District IV 
people at the meet, including ing in and I managed to stay meet. Since Garrett is also cap-
himself. up there." 
"I was really surprised," Indeed, Garrett managed see GARRETT, page 13 

Football does not get nearly the attention it deserves at Notre Dame. 
Sound ridiculous? Think again. I'm not talking about the 9-0 top-ranked Fighting Irish who are causing bowl speculation to be the campus pastime. 
I'm talking about a different level of pigskin tos­sing. I'm talking about women's interhall flag foot­ball. 
But this isn't the same flag football that we had to play in elementary school so our parents wouldn't sue the principal if we were hurt. Flag football was what you played when you were wearing your best pants and you're mother said, "Now don't get dirty, Precious." Flag football was for people who didn't like to get all sweaty. 
Well, not anymore. 

Flag football gives girls the chance to do what their big brothers talked about throughout their childhood--shooting the gaps, run a down-and-out, kick to the sideline, master the option pitch, get dirty and even sweat. · 
Early in September I was asked to be one of the defensive coaches for Farley's flag football team. I said sure--it might be kind of fun. What I didn't realize was how it could become so addictive. 
Daily practices at Stepan. Weekly games under the lights at Cartier. And example after example that this was really a sport that was played because it was fun. 
Fun, but who says this isn't just as intense as real football? 
Brian O'Gara ~ 
:,/,

Irish Items .,. {
.,,,.._ 

In one game our inside linebacker jumped to deflect a pass and came down shaking her finger. "Did you break a finger nail?" joked one of the 
coaches. 
No, she broke her finger. 
But two weeks later she was back in the lineup and picked off a key pass. That's what toughness is all about. Well, she kind of ruined the moment when she skipped off the field and hugged the coach, but, hey, Stonebreaker probably does that too. 
Not only did the defense not give up any points in the season's first four games, but it even scored two. A junior defensive end beat her man, er, wo­man, on the outside and caught the quarterback in the end zone for a safety. Forget the fact that she stands 5'3" and barely tips the scales in triple fig­ures. 
Opportunity also knocks for the football wanna-be coaches like me. All those hours watching "Wake Up The Echoes" paid off when it came time to deliver pre-game pep talks. I even tried a 'Win One For...' line. 
And then there is the crouching down during key plays and pulling at the grass like Lou Holtz does. If really didn't seem to matter that we played all our games on turf and it is mighty difficult to pull up carpet. 
The flag football championship still has yet to be decided. Lewis will meet Breen-Phillips in the Stadium, probably on the Sunday after Penn State. Ifyou have never seen a women's flag football game here, go. You may be surprised. They may still call each other Precious and still worry about their hair, but they can also run the option and drop a quar­terback for a loss with the b~st of them. 






