
Bad timing
IACCENT: Dining hall feeds needy 
Mostly sunny and warmer today just in time for classes. Temperatures will reach well into the 60s with lows tonight

IVIEWPOINT: Palestine-fervent response 
in the middle 40s. 
VOL. XXI, NO. 129 MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Girl hit in head by thrown keg 
By REGIS COCCIA She was struck unconscious News Editor and knocked to the ground, striking her head against the 
A high school senior was in sidewalk, eyewitnesses said. serious condition Sunday night Sauceda's parents flew to after being hit in the head by a South Bend from Texas on keg at Friday's An Tostal Keg Friday, Leveille said, adding Toss. they are "very appreciative of 
Melissa Sauceda, of Weslaco, the Notre Dame community, Tex., was in a coma from but they're most thankful for Friday afternoon until 5 a.m. the prayers." Sunday but is now resting, said "The boy who threw the keg Director of Campus Ministry came to see her," Leveille said. Father Andre Leveille, who has "The family has no anger or been visiting her in Saint hard feelings toward the boy." Joseph's Medical Center. Witnesses said the injury was 
"I annointed her (on a freak accident. The student Friday). She was very sick and who threw the keg was very up­in danger of death," he said. set, students said. 
The Medical Center declined "The guy who did it just lost comment on Sauceda's condi­it --he was just completely in tion, but said she is in "serious tears," said a student who condition in intensive care." asked to remain anonymous. 
"She's in good spirits. She "I think he's doing pretty smiles and makes jokes," said well now. I'm going to see him freshman Diana Fuentes, a for the next few days," said friend of Sauceda's from her Leveille. "Anyone would feel hometown. bad after such a terrible acci­
Fuentes also said that Uni­dent," he said. versity President Father Ed­"It was definitely an acci­ward Malloy had visited dent," one student said. "I just Sauceda. don't think he knew which way 
Sauceda, recently accepted he was facing. I think it was

The Observer I Mike Moran
A winning moment 

to Notre Dame, was staying poorly organized. There was a Matt Dingens of Adworks All Stars accepts the 1988 Lightening by the score of 21-18. Sean Cullinan of with friends in Farley Hall, kind of tunnel around the guy Bookstore Basketball championship trophy from Tequila was awarded the coveted Mr. Bookstore said Sister Jean Lenz, assistant (who threw the keg)," the stu-Steve Wenc, bookstore commissioner emeritus. Ad­award. vice president for student af­works All Stars was victorious over Tequila White fairs. see KEG, page 4 
Sacred Heart will close for renovations next year 
By TAMRYN J. ETTEN long the church will be closed people want to be married Gregorian frescos, adding the configuration of the pews 
News Staff by September, when plans are here," he said. pews in the side aisles, replac­changed. "The whole church complete. The church could re­No weddings are being ac­ing window frames and restor­looked radically different, Sacred Heart Church will be open as soon as the fall of 1989, cepted for that summer, and ing the stained glass windows. Jenky said. 
closed for up to a year, begin­with Masses being conducted Jenky said he is preparing The exterior renovation, The restoration of the stained 
ning in May, 1989, said Father while scaffolding is present. those who wish to schedule or­begun two years ago, replaced glass, never done before, will Daniel Jenky, rector of the Jenky said daily Masses may dinations or final vows for the the roof and gutters, and take three years. church. be held in dorms and Sunday worst. regilded the cross. The stained glass is the larg­
Undergoing exterior renova­Masses in larger campus A sprinkling system, new air est existing example of 19th tion for the last two years, the chapels such as Stanford­"We'd rather give them the conditioning and heating sys­century French stained glass in church will undergo interior Keenan. He said weddings bad news first and then make tems, have also been installed, the world, Jenky said. renovation beginning after might be held in the crypt and it better," he said. he said. The crypt in the basement of next year's graduation, he Log Chapel. "There may not be The renovation will include Sacred Heart was last ·the church is now under said. elegance and stained glass, but installing new carpeting, en­renovated in 1968, when the renovation. Jenky said he hopes 
Jenky said he will know how the convenience will make hancing lighting, restoring the sanctuary was extended and it will re-open by June 1. 


Task force response 
Milani tabbed for senior award

will soon be ready 
By AMY HOWARD 
Milani, paralyzed from the chest down in a high
News Staff 
ident and members of the task 
By MATT GALLAGHER school hockey accident, hasforces also attended each
Copy editor 
Adam Milani is this year's dedicated time to increasingmeeting. 
recipient of the seventh an­handicapped awareness at Student reactions to the Uni­The meetings were charac­nual Distinguised Student Notre Dame and the South versity task forces on terized by "questions, mainly Award. Bend community. 
residence life and alcohol will ones of clarification," said The Award, presented by "When I came here it be given to the administration Doyle. He said many students the Notre Dame Alumni As­raised a lot of awareness be­before the end of the school have strong opinions, both in sociation, honors a Notre cause there hadn't been a year, said Student Body Presi­favor and against the task Dame senior who has con­student in a wheel chair on dent Tom Doyle. forces' recommendations. 
tributed outstanding service campus for three or four Student input was gathered About 1,800 surveys have to the University and com­years," said the St. Ed­through a series of meetings been turned in to student gov­munity. ward's Hall senior. 
held in dorms and through a ernment, he said. 
Milani found out he had Adam Milani Milani said he was glad to student body survey. The preliminary results will won the Award two weeks realize it's quite an honor see the that the Huddle be-He said 60 to 100 students at­be given to administration of-ago. "At first I was really and a very pleasanttended each one. Doyle, Mike shocked," he said. "Now I surprise." see MILANI, page 4Paese, student body vice pres-see DOYLE, page 4 


Monday, April 25, 1988 
page 2 The Observer 

Of Interest 
Abba Eban, former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations and United States, will give a lecture titled "Religion in Israel" Thursday, at 8 P-~· in Washin~ton Hall. A prominent international figure smce the establish­ment of Israel Eban was simultaneously ambassador to the United Nations and United States by the early fifties. In Israel, he served as minister of education and culture, deputy prime minister and mini~ter of foreign affairs. Tickets are free and may be obtamed from the theology department in Room 327 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Obser­ver 
The National Black MBA Association (NBMBAA) is now accepting applications for its 1988 Na­tional Scholarship Program. To qualify, students must be enrolled in a full-time graduate business or management program in the fall of 1988 or winter of 1989. Applicati?ns must be postmarked no later than May 31, 1988. To receiv~ an application, contact The National Black MB~ Asso~I­ation, c/o 1988 Scholarships, 111 E. Wacker Dnve, Suite 600, Chicago, IL 60601. -The Observer 
Beth Sylvester, of the University of Cincinnati Conservatory of Music will play the flute in concert today at 8 p.m. in Moreau Hall Little Theater at Saint Mary:s. The performance is the last in this seasons Graduate Artist Recital Series sponsored by the St. Mary's department of music. -The Observer 
Darlene Catello will give a harpsichord recital today at 8 p.m. in the Hesbuq~h Library J\uditorium. _For more information contact Enc Kuehner m the music depart­ment at 239-6201. -The Observer 
Le Cercle Francais members and students going 
to Angers next year are invited to a bon voyage soiree 
today from 7 to 10 p.m. in the ISO Lounge. -The Observer 
Senior Month Ticket sales will be held from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Tickets for some events are limited, so plan accordingly. Make checks payable to "Notre Dame, Class of '88." -The Observer 
The Medieval Institute will present a lecture by 
Professor Margaret Gibson of the University of Liverpool 
on "Beyond the Glossa Ordinaria: Biblical Scholarship in 
the Eleventh and Twelfth Centuries" today at 4: 15 p.m. 
in Room 715 Hesburgh Library. -The Observer 
A lunch is being sponsored today from noon to 2 p.m. at Senior Bar in order to thank the Career and Placement staff for all their work throughout the year. All seniors are invited to attend. -The Observer 
"Issues in Alcohol Abuse and Misuse by Young Adults" will be the subject of dorm question and answer sessions today at 9 p.m. in Flanner Hall, Howard Hall, Walsh Hall, and at St. Mary's College in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. -The Observer 
A WVFI DJ meeting will be held today at 6:30p.m. 
in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. 
It is the final staff meeting of the year and it is mandatory. 
-The Observer 
The Juggler's spring 1988 issue will be distributed today through Wednesday in LaFortune Student Center, O'Shaughnessy Hall, and the Hesburgh Library. -The Ob­server 
The Overseas Development Network will hold its final meeting of the year Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. All members should bring the money from T-shirt sales. -The Observer 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 

Corrections but they're
Corrections. 
I hate running corrections. They're kind of like pulling wisdom teeth. You hate it but you know it has to be done. 
Our fifth correction since spring break is run­ning in today's paper. It's actually a clarifica­tion, since we got the story right but the head­line wrong. That's more like pulling molars instead of wisdom teeth, but it still hurts. 
A couple years back Mark Pankowski wrote a column on why corrections are a good thing to see in a newspaper. A correction shows that a newspaper cares enough about objectivity to get the facts straight the second time. He made a good point, I think. 
"But you should get the facts straight the first time," you say. 
True. 
We really do try to get the story right. Every reporter, before they start writing for The Ob­server, gets a big packet explaining how to in­terview, how to write a decent opening para­graph, and most importantly, the necessity of getting the news straight. Editors are chosen primarily for their ability to check the facts and make sure they are presented logically and objectively. 
The Observer in the past has gotten high marks for objective reporting from collegiate newspaper organizations. No, we're not the New York Times. But compare us to papers at other schools our size. Keep in mind that we have no journalism major at Notre Dame, and no faculty advisorship of any sort. We do all right. 
"But if you're a newspaper, you should get the facts straight, or you should pack it up," say Observer critics. 
Put yourself in the editors' shoes. Night editors for each story must check: 
• 
Are all the names spelled correctly? Look them all up in the phone book. Check their titles too. Is Szmuszkovicz a professor or an assistant or an adjunct or a visiting? 

• 
Is everything attributed? Does every state­ment of fact also have a statement of source? Call the reporter and check, if he's home. Call the source and check, and then call back twice more since the source is never home. 

• 
Is everything in the story factually correct? Never mind that, four times out of five you don't know a damn thing about Minority Visita­tion Weekend or Saint Mary's hall elections or whatever. You're still responsible for checking every fact in the story. 

• 
Does everything conform to the Observer Stylebook (74 pages) and the Associated Press Stylebook (285 pages)? Do we put "tomorrow" or "Tuesday"? Are class titles capitalized? ·Do we write out "percent"? 



'not good' inevitable 

Mark Me Laughlin 
News Editor 



• Is everything spelled correctly? Check it twice, even if it's four in the morning, our usual time that the paper is done. 
Night editors have to do all of the above for each campus story, an average of five stories a night. Similar editing has to be done on all the Associated Press stories, once the editor plows through the 150 stories on the wire to find the decent ones. Then they must write the wea­ther, all the photo captions, all the headlines, design all the news pages, and proofread the entire news section of the paper. 
The job usually takes two people nine hours to do. Untold additional hours are spent by reporters trying to get the news. All these people are also students, with the same aca­demic loads as everyone else at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
No, all of this is not an excuse. We still have an obligation to get the news straight, and to correct it if we screw up. 
But with all the work that goes into producing this paper and getting news stories, it's inevi­table that we'll screw up sometime. Yes, stories that need corrections misinform the public. No, that's not good. All I can say is we're doing our best. Hopefully that's good enough. 

+
American 

Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
~ lotto's Hair • i.-~, Styling
_ 

I . 
I 

531 N. Micllifan St:. 
• Phone l3J.4957 _. 
SENIOR FORMAL PROOFS 
DISPLAY & ORDER 

at: OHARA LOUNGE MAIN LOBBY LAFORTUNE 
FRI 6-9PM 4/22 MON 3-SPM 4/25 

Pick up Formal and Candids Fri 4/29-5-7pm 
Questions: Call Maggie 283-2581 

Design Editor --·----··--·· Melissa Warnke Design Assistant ........ Bernadatte Shilts Typesetters... .. .............. Mike Buc ........................... .. ..... Andy Schlidt News Editor . ................ Chris Bednarski Copy Editor ........................ Greg Zucas Sports Copy Editor .... .. .. ... . Greg Guffey 
Viewpoint Layout .............. Kerri Owens Accent Layout... . . .. . . . Annette Rowland Typist ............................... Jenn Conlon ND Day Editor ..................... Sue Moser .......................................Joe McLaughlin SMC Day Editor .......... Suzanne Devine 
TM Olleener (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. TM ObMner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per semester) by writing TM Olleenn-, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodiana 46556. 
TM Olleener is a member of TM ~ted Pnu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Typesetting Service Is Now Hiring Students Typesetters For the 1988-89 School Year Call Chris Hasbrook at 239-7471 Through Wednesday 4127 
Monday, April 25, 1988 



Iranian boat fires on Arabian tanker 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain-An Iranian speedboat shot up a Saudi Arabian-owned tanker in the Strait of Hormuz on Sunday after President Reagan said the U.S. Navy will no longer ig­nore attacks on noncombatants in the Persian Gulf region. 
The speedboat fired rocket­propelled grenades and ma­chine guns at the 37,011-ton Sea Trader in the strait, the south­ern entrance to the gulf. 
An unexploded rocket dangled from the Sea Trader's hull after the attack but fell into the sea before the tanker reached the port of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. 
The Indian master, Capt. 
B.R. Pagarkar, reported his vessel sustained slight damage and no casualties among the In­dian crew. 
It was not known whether any U.S. warships were near the Sea Trader during the at­tack. Navy officials do not dis­close warships' movements, but several U.S. frigates and destroyers have been in the southern gulf since last week, 
when U.S. and Iranian ships 
skirmished in the area. 
Reagan warned Iran in his 
weekly radio broadcast Satur­
day that continued attacks on 
neutral parties, including guH 
shipping, "will be very costly 
to Iran and its people." 
On Friday, U.S. officials dis­closed in Washington that the Reagan administration was planning to expand the U.S. naval role in the gulf by giving American commaders the right to intervene in Iranian at­tacks on non-U.S. flag vessels. 
Previously, U.S. warships have only been permitted to provide "humanitarian aid" to non-American ships in distress and requesting aid, but not to intercede in armed conflict in­volving those ships. 
Gulf-based shipping execu­tives, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Sea Trader encountered a flotilla of six armed speedboats as it sailed into the gulf through the strait about 7:30 a.m. 
The tanker, owned by a Saudi firm but flying the Liberian flag, was bound for the Saudi oil port of Ras Tanura. 

Coast Guard might be sent to Persian Gulf 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci said Sunday the United States is considering shoring up its Per­sian Gulf fleet with Coast Guard ships but U.S. officials downplayed any immediate retaliation for an Iranian at­tack on a neutral vessel. 
Admiral William Crowe, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the "level of vio­lence is much less" against the Saudi-owned tanker than in the mining incident that touched off last week's U.S. retaliatory strike against two Iranian of­fshore platforms. 
"We consider our response on Monday a suitable response tor tne mmscrtmmate mining, and we do not contemplate any more violence unless Iran con­tinues what we would say is an indiscriminate and a threaten­ing pattern," Crowe said on CBS-TV's "Face the Nation." 
"And as you saw the report from the tanker, they did not feel that they had been heavily damaged," Crowe said. "And we will certainly keep those events in the calculations of this review." 
The captain of the Sea Trader said there were no casualties among the vessel's crew, but the 37,011-ton tanker sustained slight damage in the grenade and machine gun attack at 7:30 
a.m. (11:30 p.m. EDT) 



GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS TUESDAY, MAY 3rd THRU SUNDAY, MAY 8th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND TABLE WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 3rd THRU MAY 8th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30 p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 1OOibs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 


Two students charge to hurl petroleum bombs at riot Chungang University in Seoul on Friday. Some 5000 police during anti-government demonstration at students took part in the demonstration. 
Car bomb toll climbs to 69 
Associated Press wounded from the blast in the 
low-income Tabbaneh district 
TRIPOLI, Lebanon-The of Tripoli, the country's death toll from Lebanon's second-largest city. Radio sta­worst car bombing in three tions broadcast urgent appeals years climbed to 69 Sunday for blood. after 15 of the wounded died in Civil defense rescue teams hospitals. One man was who clawed through the rubble dragged injured but alive from during the night called off their a wrecked building. search early Sunday after 
Tripoli's eight hospitals were dragging the 33-year-old sur­filled to capacity with vivor, a grocer, to safety at casualties and morgues were about midnight, police re­"packed with corpses," police ported. said. 
Local officials in the nor-The man, who was not iden­thern port city declared two tified, had been buried for more days of public mourning for the than 16 hours. He was taken to victims of Saturday's explosion Batroun hospital, 15 miles in a crowded vegetable market south of Tripoli, because the that knocked down buildings city's hospitals were already and set dozens of cars ablaze. overflowing with casualties. 
Police said 111 people were Police said no one else was 
j
listed as missing or believed to be buried in the wreckage. 
Tripoli, whose 850,000 popu­lation is predominantly Sunni Moslem, is 50 miles north of the capital, Beirut. 
Police said a black pickup truck used in Saturday's bom­bing was loaded with vegetables and 330 pounds of TNT. 
It exploded while the market was filled with shoppers on the seventh day of Islam's holy month of Ramadan, when devout Moslems fast from sun­rise to sunset. 
No group has claimed re­sponsibility for Saturday's bombing, and police said they had no clues about who was be­hind the carnage. 
Israeli army lifts Arab travel ban 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -The army lifted a four-day ban Sunday to let Palestinians travel from the occupied territories into Israel, but Arabs said soldiers wrecked homes and shops in another bid to control unrest. 
Israeli solders have killed 173 Palestinian protesters in the nearly five-month-old uprising against 21 years of Israeli oc­cupation of the West Bank and Gaza, according to U.N. fig­ures. An Israeli soldier and ci­vilian also have been killed. 
Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin told the Cabinet that 165 Palestinians have died in the uprising, including 147 killed by soldiers, Israel radio said Sun­day. Rabin said 4,900 Pales­tinians have been detained since Dec. 8, including 1,700 held in administrative deten­tion for up to six months with­out trial. 

Police ordered Arab mer­chants in Jerusalem to open their stores at normal hours in a tug-of-war with protest leaders, who are also trying to dictate when shops may do business. 
"I am afraid for my life," 43­year-old Saleh Sagari said, ex­plaining why he opened his tiny grocery shop at hours dictated by the uprising's leaders. "If I open (during army-ordered hours), they will burn me down." 
Police in riot gear delivered the new orders to shopkeepers along the Street of the Prophets just outside the walled Old City. Officers on horses kept back curious tourists and passers­by. 
Shopkeepers could be jailed for two years if they defy the army's instructions, said police spokesman Rafi Levy. 
In the West Bank village of Bet Roch near Hebron, Arab witnesses said Ahmad Hassan Salim Amar, 23, was killed Sat­urday when he defied the army order to halt. The army said it was investigating. 


" '\ -~· 
0 ) ). ) ) ) ..t''} 
, . / . :' 
ADWQRKS


eage 4 
•

Mitterrand WinS election's 
Associated Press 

PARIS -Socialist President Francois Mitterrand won the first round of the presidential election Sunday setting up a May 8 runoff with conservative Premier Jacques Chirac who finished a distant second. 
With 98 percent of the ballots counted, and with tabulating suspended for the day, Mitter­rand had 34 percent of the vote in his quest for a second seven­year term. Chirac, 55, had 19.9 percent. 
Former center-right Premier Raymond Barre, 64, finished third with 16.5 percent. He conceded defeat and called on his supporters to back fellow conservative Chirac and oust Mitterrand. 
l 
Making a strong showing in the field of nine candidates was Jean-Marie Le Pen, 59, leader of the extreme right National Front, with 14.5 percent. Le 
Pen campaigned on a toughI anti-immigration platform. 
r 
i 
' Keg 
continued from page 1 
dent said. 

One student said he was standing next to Sauceda when the keg hit her. "The keg missed me and a friend of mine by an inch. It went between us and hit her. I don't know whe­ther it slipped out of his hand or he couldn't see where he was throwing or what," the student said. 
"I looked over and I hadn't realized what had happened until I saw the keg rolling," he 
Doyle 
continued from page 1 

ficials and the student body before finals, said Doyle. 
In addition, they will present a letter to the administration with student government's opinions, said Doyle. This let­ter will also summarize the sur­veys and the forums. 
Notes and comments from the forums and the survey results will be given to Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy and other administra­tion officials responsible for implementing the suggested changes, said Doyle. 
The administration rushed to get the reports out so that the students had adequate time before exams to make their feelings known, Doyle said. 
"We heard from Monk (Malloy) and (University Ex­ecutive Vice President Father William) Beauchamp that they will take the (students') response seriously," said Doyle. 
A final report will be issued during Senior Week, he said. The administration will exam­ine the results over the sum­mer, hopefully reaching some decision before classes resume, said Doyle. 
Clarification 

Due to an editing error, a headline in Friday's Observer incorrectly listed the winner of the McCandless Hall elections. As stated in the story, Kathy Schmidt's ticket won the elec­tion with 63 percent the vote. 
round 1 
The result confirmed the growing strength of his party, which espouses a tough anti­immigration platform. 
Television computer projec­tions like that of Antenne 2 have been very accurate in past elec­tions. 
Barre conceded defeat Sun­day evening and called on sup­porters to back Chirac in the runoff. Chirac, in a joint ap­pearance with Barre at the Sen­ate building, added, "Now, against the Socialist candidate, we must rally together." 
Turnout was about 72 percent of France's 38 million voters, compared to about 81 percent in 1981, when Mitterrand won his first term. 
Mitterrand, whose popularity sank to unprece­dented lows at midterm only to soar in the last two years, will face in two weeks the hard­driving conservative who has run the government since the right won the 1986 legislative elections. 
said, adding he was about 20 feet from where the keg was thrown. "When I saw her lying on the ground and the force that knocked her down, I wouldn't have been surprised if it killed her." 
"I've never seen a keg tossed, but the guy spun around six or seven times," another student said. "I guess he mis­calculated and the keg went right into the crowd. The crowd cleared and the girl was lying on her back, bleeding from her ears," the student said. "She was lying on the sidewalk an awfully long time." 
Students said Notre Dame Security came to the scene within about five minutes. An ambulance later took her to the hospital, they said. 
The events scheduled to fol­low the Keg Toss were can­celled, students said. An Tostal Co-Chairmen Colleen Cushnie and David Duncan could not be reached for comment. 
No information has been released regarding the extent of Sauceda's injuries, Leveille said. "The worst is over. She's had a brain scan and we're waiting for the results." he said. "I think she still wants to come here." 
Monday, April 25, 1988
The Observer 

Security Beat 
Wednesday, April 20 
I :03 a.m. A Security Officer on routine patrol discovered a vandalized vehicle in the C I lot and contacted the owner. 
9:29 a.m. A Breen -Phillips Hall resident reported the theft her ID holder that she inadvertently left on a desk on the second floor of the Hesburgh Library before it closed on Aprill9. 
2:30 p.m. A student reported the theft of his jacket and room keys from the North Dining Hall sometime between 12:45 and 1:05 p.m. His loss is estimated at $55. 
4:30 p.m. Two Pasquerilla West residents reported the theft of $20 cash from their unlocked rooms sometime between 10:30 p.m. on April 19 and 
12:30 p.m. on April 20. 
Thursday, April 21 
2:28 a.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported the theft of his car stereo while the vehicle was parked in the Dl parking lot sometime between 7 a.m. and II p.m. His loss is valued at $450. 
7:44 a.m. Security responded to a minor three vehicle accident at the intersection of Bulla and Juniper Roads. Damage was minimal and there were no reported injuries. 

5:30 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported that his vehicle was broken into and his radar detector and bookbag stolen while it was parked in the D2 lot sometime between I I: 15 
p.m. on April 20 and 4:30 p.m. on April 21. His loss is estimated at $421. 
7:30p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported that his car's bumper had been damaged while it was parked in the D2 lot. 
I :30 p.m. A resident of Keenan Hall reported that someone had broken into his room via the window and stolen his computer sometime between II p.m. on April 20 and 4:30 a.m. on April 21. His loss is valued at $2000. 
Friday, April 22 
II :45 a.m. Security assisted the Notre Dame Fire Department in responding to a false alarm at Stanford Hall. 
3: I 0 p.m. A vending machine employee reported that three soda machines in the basement of Fisher Hall had been vandalized. 
4:46 p.m. Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his stereo from the 
Gay ministers may be possible 
Associated Press dained as United Methodist 
ministers. 
INDIANAPOLIS-Thirty­two Hoosiers will be among The delegates -half clergy 1,000 delegates from around the and half laity -will meet Tues­world who will help decide whe­day through May 6 in St. Louis, ther practicing homosexuals Mo., for the quadrennial Gen­should be allowed to be or-eral Conference of the second-
and Injury Prevention and Education Program. The
Milani 

group visits local high school 
continued from page 1 

health classes to discuss meth­
ods of spinal cord injury pre­came accessible to wheel vention. chairs after the new addition, Milani also volunteers as an adding his mother worked to intake worker for the Legal have a handicapped pew in­Rights Project of Northern In­stalled in Sacred Heart Church. diana. The group provides free 
Milani was appointed by the legal assistance to the poor. 
Hey Students! The semester is almost over! Time to start thinking about how you are going to get your stuff home. RYDER TRUCK RENTAL is running a special on all size trucks. Rent a truck, take a couple of friends home with you, and split the cost. Like to Rock and Roll when you drive home across the country? Several models of our trucks now offer cassette players. Why listen to a static AM radio the whole way home. It's a long jour"ney, you might as well make it as comfortable as possible. We can guarantee you a 1985 or newer vehicle with an AM-FM radio, power steering, power brakes. Call the following number for your discounted rate. 219-2n-3554 
music room in the basement of his dorm sometime between the evening of April21 and the morning of April 22. 
Saturday, April 23 
2:22 a.m. Security assisted an intoxicated person who had passed out in the LaFortune Student Center. 
2:25 a.m. A Grace Hall resident reported a vandalized car in the D2 lot and Security contacted the owner. 
2:10 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported an attempted larceny from a room in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
12:30 p.m. Security discovered a vandalized vehicle parked in the D2 lot and contacted the owner. 
3:25 p.m. Security responded to a report of an assault that occurred in Red Field West. 
10:11 p.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation for traveling 46 
m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone on Juniper Road. 
Sunday, April 24 
9:15a.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported that his vehicle had been broken into and his stereo taken while it was parked in the D2 lot sometime between 3 a.m. and 9:15a.m. His loss is valued at $150. 


largest Protestant denomina­tion in the United States. 
Observers say the issue of homosexual ministers is arous­ing such strong feelings among the 9.1 million church members that it could split the denomina­tion. 
The award will be presented April 29 at the Center for Con­tinuing Education by the Notre Dame Alumni Senate. 
The Senate is composed of representatives of the associa­tion's National Board of Direc­tors and Officers of the 200 Notre Dame Clubs around the country. 

FORD TOYOTA -VOLVO 
Lewis Galantiere's Adaptation of Jean Anouilh's 
ANTIGONE 
Directed by Roberta N. Rude 
Monday April 25 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. in O'Laughlin Tuesday April26 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. in Moreau Little Theatre 
Casting the following roles only: Antigone Chorus Creon (male or female) Ismene Haemon 
The remaining roles will be cast at the start of the fall semester. 
For more information call the COTH office at 284-4640. 


Viewpoint

Monday, April 25, 1988 page 5 
P.O. Box Q 

Article harbors myths
Dear Editor: 
As a returning student from the Holy Land, I find it is my right as well as my duty to discount many of the so­called "facts" that Billy Lerman pre­sented in his article, "Palestine: the facts and the myths" in the April 20 edition of The Observer. 
First of all, Mr. Lerman begins his article by claiming that a chief myth of the Palestinian people is that the cause of their anguish is the Israelis themselves. Now it would be foolish to claim that all of the anguish experi­enced by the Palestinians originates with the Israelis, but it would be more than fair to say that the greater majority of it does. I base my stance on my own personal encounters with Israelis and Palestinians alike last se­mester. 
The abuse of human rights in the oc­cupied lands of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip by the Israelis is appalling. To think that these acts are perpetrated by a democratic state and a close ally of the United States is sickening at best. I can recall countless conversations with Palestinians (even teenagers) who had been beaten, arrested and even tor­tured by the Israeli military for suspi­cious activity, which usually meant participation in a demonstration. One specific case that occurred while I was in the Holy Land was the rape and sub­sequent killing of a Palestinian girl, who was thrown from a moving jeep by Israeli Army members. Believe it or not, the case was covered up and the soldiers escaped punishment. 
NO support 
appreciated 
Dear Editor: 

As you may well know, our son Tom was seriously injured in a hit and run accident during spring break in Texas. While these have been trying times, Tom's condition continues to improve dramatically everyday. His spirits are high and we are sure this is largely due to the high interest shown by the Notre Dame community. We appreciate your prayers and thank you for your strong support. Tom has received an unending number of cards and flowers from well­wishers. We would like to take this op­portunity to thank you all for your generosity. 
Tom McNeil and family April 14, 1988 
Arabs leaving not voluntary 
Dear Editor: 

In Billy Lerman's introductory par­agraph to his Viewpoint article of Wed­nesday April 20, he describes the "as­sumption" that the Palestinians were forced from their land into their present refugee camps at the hands· of Israel as being "logically as well as factually incorrect." Unfortunately, his essay seems to lack a lot of fact and logic as well. 
Mr. Lerman states that the "Arab" inhabitants of Palestine l~ft of their free will. He seems tp forget that most of them left because of the campaign of terror organized by the Zionist un­derground movements, highlighted by the Dier Yaseen massacre. They left in fear for their families and in hope of returning sm;neday. Wasn't that the case with the large numbers of Poles who left their country after the Nazi occupation to join the Free Forces in England? Presently, isn't there a large number of Afghan refugees in Pakistan who left their country to avoid the vio­lence and are waiting for the Russians to pull out in order to return to their homes? 
Mr. Lerman claims: "The reason that the number of Jews decreased is that they were in many cases formally expelled and in other cases murdered in Nazi-style attacks." I do not know if 
Mr. Lerman is aware of the fact that Arab Jews are Arabs who lived among Arabs of other religions for many cen­turies with relatively no problems. Ac­tually, it is largely thanks to Arab civilization that the Jewish civilization survived through the Dark Ages and to the post-Renaissance era. We would suggest that Mr. Lerman read about the life the Jews had in Andalusia before the fall of the Umayyad Caliphat there. It would seem logical that a large num­ber of Jews would move to a state that "represents" them and to which they are encouraged to immigrate. Thus, a large number of them left of their "free will." As f~r as "Nazi-style attacks," the only thmgs that seem to come to mind are massacres such as "Deir Yas­seen" and "Sabra and Shatila," "Nazi­style attacks" against Palestinian refugees. 
Mr. Lerman blames the Arab countries which number over 20 for not settling 700,000 Palestinians, while Is­rael managed to settle 1,200,000 refu~ees. The comparison is ridiculous, and ts yet another example of "truth distortion:" Mr. Lerman, the Jews were going to the country of their dreams, whereas the Palestinians were fleeing away from their homeland. The Arab countries' accomodation of Pal­estinian refugees is on a temporary basis, awaiting a peaceful solution. The actions of a small number of Arab leaders should not be confused with the actual policy regarding the Palestinian problem. It would be similar to assum­ing that Rabbi Kahane represents the Jews! As far as calling Arab countries "oil-rich," the label is misleading. They have their social and economic prob­lems as well. And if Mr. Lerman has to be reminded, not all of them produce oil. 
Mr. Lerman claims that Arabs who chose to remain in Israel after 1948 "celebrate full autonomy." ·What is autonomy? Is it having to possess a pass in order to move from village to village? If that is the case, we can say that they "celebrate" the same autonomy that the blacks in South Africa do! 
Mr. Lerman asks us to recall "the facts" when reading about Palestinian refugees. Whose facts, Mr. Lerman? 
Ramzi Bualuan Omar Al-Farisi Off-campus Fisher Hall April 22, 1988 

Doonesbury 
One of Mr. Lerman's own self­proclaimed goals throughout his article is the wishful attempt to dispel any myths, yet he harbors one of the biggest myths of all when he describes, in the form of a quote, that all Palestinians are terrorists, "Then we exploited them in executing crimes of murder, arson and throwing bombs upon men, women . and chidren--all this in the service of political purposes." There is no doubt in my mind that the PLO has carried out some very questionable, unjusti­fiable and criminal acts throughout the years. But, to brand a nationality of people as evil, hate-filled terrorists, as the use of the quote seems to imply, is narrow-minded as well as ridiculous. Iri my everyday dealings with Pales­tinians, I found them to be the most spirited, warm-natured and loving people that I have ever come into con­tact with. This is a commonality that I believe would be shared and attested to by the other eleven students that par­ticipated in last semester's program. 
In conclusion, I would like to label as ludicrous that belief held by Mr. Ler­man that the Palestinians are in the occupied territories simply "because of their political value in tallying world opinion against Israel." The fact is, the Palestinians are there because it is their last bastion of hope in an attempt to gain a national homeland. I am not discrediting Israel's right to exist at all, but simply recognizing the Pales­
tinians' rights  as a people and not a  
problem!  
Andy Shannon  
Stanford Hall  
April 22, 1988  


Quote of the Day
Garry Trudeau 
I KI3&P THINKING 50M&7HIN6 A 
"It's finally occurred to me
HI, 6UY5! 50M& 7lJRN OF &V/3N75 7HAT 
lJRAMATIC 15601M37lJHAPPCN, 
that once you graduate, the
Relrl&Me&R. HI, OtN6!{)JN6l SAY 
tutU. FORCe 7H& /5SUE ON& 
ME.? HUH? NICiJl£! 

school doesn't belong to
{)JN6lp!N6/ Jk.
IAJAY OR 7He OlHBR.! 
I o \ 
0 

you-it belongs to the stu­
=~V?P:o=-.. I 
dents. Alumni get old-the school doesn't-it's rejuve­nated with each Freshman class." 
John A. Walters Class of 1988 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette ShiHs Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 
Accent 

Monday, April 25, 1988 page 6 
Foodshare puts dining hall food to good use 
TAMRYN ETTEN accent writer 
W 
hat happens to the food that the dining hall doesn't use? Up until a few weeks ago, the unserved food was thrown out. But due to the idealism and hard work of three Notre Dame students, some of the needy in South Bend are eating the dining hall's leftovers. 
Since March 22 Foodshare, a group of Notre Dame volun­teers, has been bringing the leftovers from North Dining Hall's evening meals to the Hope Rescue Mission in down­town South Bend, a shelter for the homeless which serves over 200 meals a day to those in need. 
"For instance if there is 55 gallons of soup cooked, and five left over, it is shipped to the mission," said William Hick­ey, director of food services. 
"Anytime we help our brot­hers out by sharing food that would be discarded, without impacting our cost, we're hel­ping out the poor souls who need help," he said. 
Senior Kathy Barron, one of the captains of the basketball team, went to Mexico with the Community for the Lay Apost­ulate (CILA) last summer and saw the starvation and poverty there. "I had seen a lot of hungry people and it bothered me," she said. 
Barron was approached by senior Jim MacDonald, who had visited a national conven­tion for Food Salvage, a similar program implemented by Har­vard and Northwestern univer­sities. Together they began researching the possibilities of starting a program at Notre Dame. 
"We researched everything-­the health aspects, legal aspects. We got names of stu­dents who were interested in helping. We wanted to cover everything before we took the idea to the administration," Barron said. 
Lisa Mackett, a freshman who worked in the dining hall, be­came involved in the project, and the three became a bar­gaining. speaking. researching and lobbying team. 
They took the idea to Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy, "He thought it was a good idea, but he had con­cerns about the health aspect of it. But he gave us his en­couragement," Barron said. 

They discovered their ticket to success was Indiana's Good Samaritain Law which states that if an organization "in good faith makes a gift of a food item to a charitable entity is not liable for damages arising for the use, condition, quality, or content of that food item... " 
They began looking for a place to bring the food. "We asked the (Center for Social Concerns) what places in South Bend needed food. What time, facilities, and health standards they had (and) if the feeding time corresponded," Barron said. They wrote the Hope Res­cue Mission and received a hand-written positive response. 
After a few months of discus­sions with the administration, they finally agreed to try the project. The University Food Services purchased food warmers and pans, and the esc donated use of their van for the transport. 
"We were originally going to do it on Tuesday and Thursday, but then we decided if we had the food, why not every night?" Barron said. 
The students who transport the food keep a diary of what food is brought. "We look in the refreigerator. They're using it," she said. 
The mission has six different feeding times and serves about 200 meals a day. "With all the meals we have, we can use a lot of food," said Martin Polecki, social service coordina­tor for the mission. 
"If we had to purchase every­thing with as many meals as we have, it would take all of our money," he said. According to Polecki, the mission is a non-profit organization, so donated food is tax deductible. 
Next year Foodshare wants to expand their operation by using the food from both dining halls on the campus, and possibly expand the num­ber of recipients of the food. 
Their biggest challenge ahead is tactfully approaching the students on food waste. "We want people to be con­sciously aware of what they take and what they eat," Barron said, "It may seem trivial, but we're forming habits. Ones that are hard to break." 
The Observer is looking for 
@W®If@@~® ©©~ llll[ii]i)[Jl) ~®U® who are interested in writing 


Contact Beth Healy at 239-5383 

The needy residents of South Bend are enjoying the same food as these students in North Dining Hall 
Soap update 

Pat and Concetta recite their wedding vows on 'Ryan's Hope' 
All My Children: Jeremy be, delight, Shane and Kim bring Blaze to Llanview to came suspicious of Silver's signed separation papers. meet Viki. Clint bought Ginny rape story. After fighting·with Justin began working In Neil's away from the white slavers. Adam over Tom, Barbara left stable. Mar.cus and Vanessa Donald pressured thejudgeto Tempo. Phoebe vainly asked got off to a poor start. Eve convict Marl-Lynn. Wade drew Langley to quit bartending pursued.· Frankie after · he a contempt sentence by and return to her. Cliffdenied again split with Jennifer. playing the tape of Griffin in Cecily's claims about them Coming:Paying for a death. court. Cord accepted Tina's and dismissed her from the Falcon Crest: Pre-empted by proposal. Tina revealed Asa hospital. A comatose Skye TV movie "Vice Queen." and Renee'splans toa scandal flashed back to being hit on General Hospital: Tony drank sheet. Thanks to John and the head. Nico was released after having a bitter fight with Rob's trap, a panicked Donald fromjail but couldn't getJUlie Lucy. Bobbie urged Melissa to admitted to killing Alex to admit she cared for him. stay away from Colt. Robert Crown. Coming: Disorder in Coming: Tom reaches out to suspected Duke's involve· the court. Barbara. ment in the Woods case. Amy Ryan's Hope: Without Jack's Another World: Holden dis­feared Patrick still cared for permission, Zena sneaked off covered that Emily had mis­Terry; Tom was sentenced to to perform at a benefit, where carried James' baby. Holden perform community service. she was spotted by Lee and turned down Barbara's offer. Readying his. takeover bid, Ryan. Pat's bachelor party was Lucinda tried to hire Dusty, Scott blackmailed Cheryl into interrupted as the guys went while Lily invested in Bar· putting her money into Medi­to rescue a drunken Ben. Pat bara's new company. Betsy 'fech. Coming: Robert puts and Concetta enjoyed a beau­declined Rod's proposal. Rod Duke on the spot tiful church wedding. John gotjealous when Betsy asked Guiding Light: Nicky avoided Reid had a surprise for Lizzie. Seth to dinner. Coming: Hol­arrest and no one knew who Coming: Zena gets chewed den confronts his· wife. · tipped hirn off. Wyatt out. As The World Tums: To cass' suspended Jenny. Unable to Santa Barbara: cain became chagrin, Nicole flirted with a find Rose, Rusty was indicted jealous when the major asked potential Investor. Mac went and given a very high ball. Andrea to work on his new to NewYorkto fighta takeover Reva and Alan decided not to project. C.C.'s hired gun bid for Cory Publishing. Rac­annul their marriage. Sonni torched the boathouse, but hel Insisted that Matthew en. sensed she was going to lose Cruz and Pearl found Hal roll at BayCJty High. Vince and the baby. After a fight,. Harley Clark's bones. Gina and Keith Mary set a date. Jamie asked and Alan•Michael kissed. stole the bones and put pres­to move back with Lisa. Com~ Frank and Mindy got closer. sure on C. C. and Pamela, who ing: Matthew begins difficult Chelsea and Phillip went to blamed each other. After C.C. acljustments. · see the emerald mines. Com­threw her out, Pamela sent a The Bold <md the Beautiful: ing: Soon! deals with an Un· letter to Keith. Jeffrey hid his Steven told 6rooke to forget expected visitor. dismaywhen Kelly considered about him. Stephanie insisted Knots Landing: Pre-empted working for Sophia. Jake on using Grandma Logan to byTV.movie"TheRed Spider:· made peace with T.J. before lure Steven home. Thorne Loving: Gwyn convinced Clay leaving for ajob In New York. came home to find Caroline to hire Jeff as producer of Coming: Keith calls the shots. and Ridge frolicking in the AmoureUe's new TV show. The Young & The Restless: pooL Margp urged Clarke to Gwyn wanted Jeff to hire Paul and cassie shared a pas­tell Eric he designed the Trisha as his assistant but sionate . kiss. Jill bribed Gary showstopper. Donna found Trish hid the fact of being the into a blood test. Marc fumed herself liking rilck. Rocco told boss' daughter. Unhappy at over being outwitted by Jack. Katie to dress wildly and wear beingawayfromJ.J. somuch, Jack turned over his tanning lots of makeup. Coming: Stacey quit her job. Shana product shares to John. Carol Brooke's knowledge torments agreed to a night out with told Skip to consider her dis· her. !:>an. Clay and Ava worried ability. · Ashley was taken Dallas: Pre-empted by 1V aboutwhat Katewould dowith aback by news of Victor's new movie "Vice Queen." her knowledge of Clay's iden­relationship. Nikki convinced Days Of Our Lives: Emilio tity. Coming: Shana feels an Danny to hire her on a trial vowed revenge on Roman attraction. · basis. Leanna concocted a after he shot Raul. Disguised, One LifeTo Live: Tina secretly plan to meet Nikki. Lauren Diana and calliope got donated money to sec\,lre a and Victor came to terms. K.lriakis to offer $10 million place for COrd's photos In the Coming: Leanna befriends for the icon. Much to eve's museum;.· Melinda ·agreed to Nikki. 

-
~~­
------------------------------------~-----~-~ 

Monday, April 25, 1988 
page 8 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
All-Bookstore teams for Bookstore Basketball XVII include a first team of Ray Flannery, Al Martin, Derrick Johnson, Jeff Peters and Brian Koehr, a second team of Chris Nanni, Joel Rump, George Baldus, J.C. Treybus and Michael Smith and a third team of Bill Sul­livan, Bill ZadeH, Ralph Ferrara, Mike Shimota and Ken Boehner. North Quad wori Sunday's All-Star Game 21-16, with Grace Hall's Tim Crawford winning the MVP Award. Kevin Quaile won the Hoosier Award in honore of his 1-of-23 shooting performance in Bookstore competition. -The Ob­
server 

The ND Golf team placed ninth out of 15 teams at the Spartan Invitational over the weekend. The Irish shot a 937 in the 54-hole competition. Doug Giorgio led Notre Dame with a three-round total of 230. Further details will appear in Tuesday's edition of The Observer. -The Obser­ver 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Women 

Continued from page 12 
Neither team was able to pull 
away from the other. 

"It was a good game," said 
Kara England, a member of 
the winning squad. "Everyone played great. At the end the referees let us play it out." 
The teams were evenly matched, but Give Me Your Ad­dress drew two fouls and the last two points were made by the ensuing free of Carolyn Burke and Gidley, respective­ly. 
Cardinals 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Willie McGee sin­gled through a drawn-in infield to snap a tie in the seventh in­ning, helping St. Louis beat New York 5-4 Sunday for the Cardinals' first victory over the Mets in six tries this season. 
Bob Horner's sacrifice fly and Tom Brunansky's RBI single capped a three-run rally that gave St. Louis a 5-2 lead in the seventh. 
Howard Johnson hit a two­out, two-run homer in the ninth off starter Danny Cox, but reliever Todd Worrell came in and got Mackey Sasser to fly out to end the game. 
Dodgers 4, Giants 0 
Mike Scioscia drove in three runs with two singles and Fer­nando Valenzuela allowed five hits in 7 2-3 innings Sunday as the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the San Francisco Giants 4-0. 
Valenzuela, 2-2, struck out three and walked three before getting relief from Jay Howell with two outs and the bases loaded in the eighth. Howell struck out pinch-hitter Will 

finally down Mets 
Clark to end the inning and finished the game to pick up his first save. 
Scioscia went 2-for-4 to raise his average to .474. 
Braves 4, Reds 1 
Dale Murphy singled in one run and scored the tiebreaker after a double as the Atlanta Braves snapped a three-game losing streak with a 4-1 victory over the Cincinnati Reds Sun­day. 
The Braves, shut out in their last three outings, snapped a 28-inning scoreless streak off Dennis Rasmussen, 1-2, in the first inning. 
Ron Gant broke out of an 0­for-12 slump when he doubled for his first hit this season. Murphy then hit a run-scoring single. 
Red Sox 4, Brewers 0 
Roger Clemens pitched a three-hitter and shut out Mil­waukee for the second time this month as the Boston Red Sox beat the Brewers 4-0 Sunday for their fifth straight victory. 
Clemens, 4-0, retired 17 straight after yielding a check­swing single to Glenn Braggs in the second inning. He beat the Brewers 2-0 April14 at Bos­ton. 
Yankees 5, Blue Jays 3 

Rickey Henderson scored the tie-breaking run on reliever Mark Eichhorn's wild pitch in the eighth inning as the New York Yankees beat Toronto 5-3 Sunday and stopped the Blue Jays' five-game winning streak. 
Royals 3, Orioles 1 

The Baltimore Orioles sunk to 0~18 Sunday and stumbled closer to the worst losing streak in history as Bret Saberhagen pitched a six-hitter and the Kansas City Royals won 3-1. 
In other baseball action Sun­day, Pittsburgh downed Chicago 4-2, Minnesota beat Cleveland 13-7, Texas defeated Detroit 4-2, Oakland downed Chicago 5-3, Seattle defeated California 4-2, San Diego shut out Houston 3-0 and Montreal edged Philadelphia 3-1. 
1'1111 a...-Hotrw Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, ecc:epts cluslfled ~alng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a...-Saint ...,.. office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, ecc:epts cluslfieda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-tt.y cluslfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must
Classifieds be prwpald, eltMr In person or by mall. The ch-ve Is 10 cents per five ~perday. 
LOST:  LIZ CLAIBOURNE  PURSE  AT  Want to go to Europe? Female senior  HELP!! I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big  FOR  SALE:  1983  GREY  FORD  ES­ ACCOLADES:  TO  THE  MARVELOUS  
NOTICES  FRESHMAN  FORMAL. KEYS  MY  I.D.  AND  wants travel prtner-Call 3938  $$$ Call Heidi 233-4176  CORT. 38,000 MI. CALL 271-0868.  ONE. FRANK G. MASTRO II! YOU ARE NOW ONE STEP CLOSER TO GREAT­ 
ARE INSIDE SO GIVE ME A CALL AT  Looking for used Mac  I NEED AS MANY GRAD TICKETS AS  I lived through hell  .  NESS  AND  ONE  MILE CLOSER  TO  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  284·5182. REWARDI REWARD!  call Todd al 1639 with model and price  YOU CAN SELL. CALL SAM: 271-0683 OR 288·5818  and I'm never going back  HOME 11!1  
p·;~j;~;~·~;;d·g-;~;j:~i~d~~i~:·;;~~d~;~:~ will buy your books. Call 233·2342 to make an appointment. 10-5:30 7 day&Week CALL 237-1949 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. ································································ EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009  .............................. LOST: SCARLET OHIO STATE U. LET­TER BLANKET AT STEPAN COURTS DURING BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL. CALL BILL SEXTON AT 239-6123. LOST:CAMERA, CANON SURE-SHOT. LOST AT THE SENIOR FORMAL AT THE DANCE ON SATURDAY NIGHT.IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 2541. FOUND: MAN'S TIMEX WATCH IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL MEN'S LOCKER ROOM.  GRADUATING? MOVING TO IN­OUR FAMILIES ARE COMING ALL THE DIANAPOLIS? LOOKING FOR FEMALE WAY FROM PUERTO RICO, SO WE TO SHARE APT OR HOUSE. CALL 277­NEED 10 GRADUATION TIX. WILL PAY 5906 ANY PRICE. CALL 277·72611 FOR SALE I ~n~E~•~••1_,~.~~-~-~~~ $DAN 234•5346 IBM PO?<T Model 086 l PERSONALS 1OMb disk, 360K lloppy, 640K RAM and Ouadmm CGA color monitor. $1,600 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, price includes DOS 2.1. documentation, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE  Cooper II you shoot me down, surprise me Liebrand No typo there PHILADELPHIA CLUB Baggage truck will be loading on 5oS: 1-2 PM at SMC behind L.eMans 2-5 PM on Stepan courts(NOT 2·3PM) Truck will tentatively unload on 511 btwn Spectrum & JFK from 1-3PM Ques· tiona? call John at 2004  HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TO THE WORLD'S GREATEST MOLECULAR GENIE ROB MERKLE LOVE, KATHRYN & DIANE YO YO YO! The 1987-1988 version ot the intamous SKID ROW(Im) is being broken up due to the dorm room picks. Maybe we won't be there anymore, but the spir~ will live on. So, at the end of the year. there's gonna be a party in our pants-WANNA COME?  
WORDePLUS Scholastic Typing-Editing Rush Jobs O.K. 256-3077  FOUND: BASKETBALL. CALL 1657 WITH DETAILS AND DESCRIPTIION. i:osr:·M~~"d·· ~~~~;;g;;;pj;~;·.~ .. ~~;~;;;;~k. Important contents inside. Reward if found. Call 3308.  AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO and other software packages also avail­able. For more inlormation, call Mike Krager at 239-7248 weekdays lrom 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.  BLOCK SOUTH OP HOLIDAY INN. YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dam..St.Mary's College P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Conlidentiality Guaranteed.  ................................................................ SHOW DAN JANSEN ND CARES. $ FOR LEUKEMIA. CHECKS PAYABLE TO NOTRE DAM~JANE BERES LEUKEMIA FUND 00 TRUSTCORP LAFORTUNE  JACK BROGAN I just wanted to wlah a very Happy Birthday to that special little boy who's now a SCORE old. Enjoy your day today becauae remember,  
Computer Art Fair Friday, April 29 in Riley Hall Room 200. Come see the latest in Interactive Art, Videodisks, and Computer Music at 4 p.m. and Computer Animation Videos at 5 p.m. Don't miss the most innovative computer and art work Notre Dame has seen in years. <3~i~9·i~·rEN.NesseE??ri;j~-~~~"d-;;d··;~ Knoxville area.~ or 517. Will share cost. Not much luggage. call Tanja, X2843. ·············coi:4PLifij:.ji3..c"ENrER"············ EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES The Computing Canter is now taking ap· plications for Fall'88 student employment within the User Services group. Positions are available in both microcomputer and multi-user system areas. Experience pre_ferred, but not required for lhe appli· cat1on process. Freshmen, sophomores, and women are especially encouraged to apply. For more information, contact Lisa at 239·5153 from 8:30a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday -Friday or stop by Room 11 ol the Computing Center.  FouNo;··RHiN.ESTO"Nii'SHOE..ORNA. MENT AT SENIOR FORMAL. CALL 283-2871. FOR RENT NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 s::;······--aiioiiool.i········tioi.tiis:"Nii"Aii CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER OR 9 MO LEASE FOR FALL.272-6306 Foii""Fiii"NT"3"8Fi"iioMe.suPEFi.ci:e;.:N INSIDEQUT, WITH GARAGE. WALK TO CAMPUS. $470 MONTH NEG. CALL LEN AT 234-7650 OR JOHN 232·3972. i:AFiGe:······FiJFi.Nis"iiii"ii·····-·sruoEiiT HOUSE available lor summer andt>r fall Nasion on NO Ave. 255-5852 evenings. Pi~~-~~;·FALLi·~~~-·5·i;;;;i;;;;;;;;··~~;~ near campus. Furnished or unfurnished.  1978 4-DOOR VW RABBIT, 92,000 miles GOOD COND. $1100 call288·6154 14" COLOR TV SAMSUNG $85 CALL Jl 2834155 ........................................ FOR SALE: 1983 GREY FORD ES· COAT. GOOD CONDITION. CALL 271­0868. FOR SALE: 1983 GREY FORD ES­CORT. GOOD CONDITION. 38,000 MI. CALL 271-Q868 Foii·s:.:i:e,··;a:·.<::rv.·2i:Aii<3E.i:Ai:4;;8. SANYO MICROWAVE, FULL-SIZE BAR, 2 MATCHING LOVE SEATS ....... CALL 271-0868 ................................................... Refrigerator lor $50 -like n~-_;;·· .... call Colette at 287-07 42 c;~;;;,;~·i;~;~!·i;;·;;;;;i~:·$·138:·-s~~::·t:i~y 81h, 12:45. call 287·1243 or 239-7313. i"iiiii..olci;··v,;~ij;;~·iiiiOOii.-;;;i;~·ii~;;;;i~ lent Condition New tires, brekes, car­borator. $2200 271..()765  Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week 233-2342 ....................... ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 Bertles Imports BMWMAZDANW All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272·8504 Ends April 30th STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER at STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! Lowest rate. 24 hour electronic protec­tion. Call 654-3638. ""SENIORS: GOING TO A NEW CITY? CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES CAN HELP YOU FIND OTHER N.D. GRADS GOING TO THE SAME CITY. STOP BY AND SIGN UP NOW."" The WORLD'S SMALLEST COMPLETE  MAURINE··sENN'ETI..,·s·1·g·;:ooA::;·M·o IS 19 TODAY MO IS 19 TODAY MO IS 19 TODAY SUPER II VISIT 435 WALSH HALL!!! SPECIAL SUMMER OFFER 25 PER CENT OFF KAPLAN GMAT. LSAT, MCAT, GRE OR NCLEX PREP COURSES. NOW THRU 6-15-88 FOR SOUTH BEND SIGN UPS ONLY. TRANSFER ANYWHERE IN USA • SAVE $$$'Sill CALL 272-4135 FOR IN· FO. ................................................................ GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION a laculty panel will discuss research, ap­plication, selection. April 27. 4:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room (LaFortune). All classes and majors invited. JUNIORS en­couraged to attend. Sponsored by Career & Placement Services. ................................................................ GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION a laculty panel will discuss research. ap­plication, selection. April 27, 4:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room (Lafortune). All classes and majors invited. JUNIORS en­couraged to attend. Sponsored by Career & Placement Services.  REVENGE IS SWEET. Just wanna say you're the best, hopa there's more good tlmea to come! Love. the Pollack iiid~-~~-;;d-;;d..i~··ii;~~;;~~;;i~~:·s;.~;~~·,;;; area Fri. evening, May 6. or Sat. Just me and one very small suitcase. Will share expenses. Call Erin at x2732. Yo, Pepperwood: The llowers are beginning to die bul the memory remains fresh. The lragrance is sweet and so are you. Thanks again. Fondly, Piedmont p.s. Hope you didn't mind me addressing you this wayl Sam I'm surrounded by one less, and come May 15. two less M;;Q:..:i·~~~;;·i"h~--~"h~ii~i-~i-~;,:;;;~~;;·~ arms -there you were. I needed someone who would understand my ups & downs­there you were. I want to STOP and thank you baby... How sweet tt is... I close my eyes at night and wonder where would 1  
I LOST/FOUND I  Also available for summer. Call 272-7258 WANTED  76:·E"looiiAoo..6900ii"Mi:s..Na·-iiusr NO DENTS NEW EXHAUST $900 AL· PINE SYSTEM $3200 CALL ED AT 232 1198 AFTER 6 PM  CIRCUS will be at NOll II Don't miss the Wackiest ol the Wednesday's events. Come see the show from noon until 1 :30 at the Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by Student Government and CSC  F~;·s·~~~-·wr·j;i~~;·ii~k~i-·i~·;~y.,:;;;;;;~··i~ us Valid thru 1A!9. Call: Chris x1747 w-BO.  be without you in my lije ... I want to stop and thank you baby... How sweet it is... Love, Me and JT  
LOST: A dark blue velcro wallet. H has  Hey Shirley •••  JAY & TOM  
all my id. and driver's license. I have no existence without this wallet. Please call Matt at x3134 or 3132. i:os:r~;.:··Fiov:.:i: ..Eii:uE..eA.ci<PA.ci<··;N THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO HYATT DURING SENIOR FORMAL-ANY IN· FORMATION PLEASE CALL DIANE 413211 Fou.No:·s;;i··~i·;,;;·~-~iik;·j;;;:~··.;;:;·~ Notre Dame key ring. Stop by room 1Q-S In Stepan Chemistry Building between 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. to collect them. L;;;;;:··;.:i··&;;;~~-"F~;;;;~;:··:.;;··b'i.d··p;;;;;;,  SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­INGS 914 3814224 ····cH.IcA"oo..Fiooi.ti.t;\rii."NiiE"iiE"ii···· Graduating in May? Working in Chicago? Looking for a roommate? Call me STEVE G. 289-9233 ;;·ENiofis:·i:i~i·;.;;w.;;;;;~~-~~·w;;.h:·o:c-. next year? Need a ROOMMATE? Call  AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ANIMALS FOR SALE 50% OF RETAIL PRICE £ 232· 1198 Moving off campus? Creating a party room? For Sale: Matching loveseat and armchair...chocolate brown strong wood frame, top condttion, bought practically new. used only one semester ... great price...call2170 ... in time for hall storage. 81 Chevette-70,000 mi. Runs great. nice interior, $1150. Call Paul 1530  Have A Coke And A Smile "HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $15,000-$68,000. Call (602) 838-8885. Ext. 6262. ································································ LE CERCLE FRANCAIS •••••••• SOIREE ••••••••• Monday April 25 7·10 ISO Lounge Food, Fun, Music. Slides Whoever took my gray jacket from Stepan courts Monday: I'd like it back. Call Chris at K1694. .................................................~ ..............  Even though you are taking away one of the bast day editors in Observer history. the day staff still loves you. ................................................................ To whom this coocems: All I want to say is this: May you live long and prosper. May you be happy, bu1 not over me. You will lind happiness someday. .:ii··;;;~~···l;k;··;;;~;j·;~·-~-·~;~·b·~~~·;··~;;l campus I" The Groove From the cool neighbors in 233 ................................................................  Who'd you borrow the SEVEN INCHES from? Quil wearing your boxers BACK­WARDS, we didn't want USED PARTSI All we wanted was to hit MJ's in our TOGAS, but you even SCREWED that upl T-HAWK go back to SMCs, you're not ready for REAL WOMEN yeti And J·BIRD stick with your MOM and the PORNOSI ro;;·;·;;·auores.Ffioi:4"Tii·E·HPA::u.Eis GAME: 16. I don't want to see any quotes in the Observer. 15. Responsible drink­ing, I don't want to be cleaning up aHer anyone. 14. Hey Bill. keep meditating. 13. Pizza and P~chers tor everybody, OK? 12. Who's the most unctious in the  
with a Kodak camera inside and a Vlvitar camera in a gray easel H found please call George at 287-<1753 or Kathleen at 284-42881111 L;;;;;;;;·;.:·bi;;.·c;;;~i·;;;;.~ct;·;;;;·"S;i~;d~y. April 10 in front of Holy Cross Hall. If lound PLEASE return to 340 Holy Cross or call £1238. Would greatly appreciate the return. THANKSI  JOHN at x1666 seEi<iNG::;:·siiei<i;;jG":::;sEei<iNG···A. FEMALE ROOMATE FOR OFF· CAMPUS 88-89. IF INTERESTED CALL LIZ 277-Q860. D"EsPEFi;.:l-E·····A.;;jiJ"·····wii:i:ij:.j(i······;:o PAY...lor graduation tickets call Monica £3938  TICKETS I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA· TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN  NEEDED: ROOMMATE West Chicago burbs·Oak Park area, call Jane (SMC 87) 312-482-7289 RIGKT TO LIFE PARTY WED. 21, s-1:oo esc PIZZA & POP Olltcera, Repa, Faculty, Volunteers WELCOME I  5Susie Here is your personal at last. can you believe tt? Love, Jim ................................................................ JIM. HOPE THE EATING CONTESTS WERE FUN I ESPECIALLY THE ONE THURSDAY NIGHTI WHAT A DUDEI T&R  HP? 11. When she comes to Chicago it never rainsl It hails, but tt never rains. 10. For your humongous collection right? I know, you never say SMALL to some men. 9. Hubie on first! .................,.............................................. I FOUND AN INTERNSHIP IN D.C.­NOW I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE MAY1.AUG12 ANY INFO,IDEAS­CALL JO 4-5175  

-
Monday, April 25, 1988 
page 9
The Observer 

Irish find pitching 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
How long it lasts remains to be seen, but the Notre Dame baseball team was able to solve its pitching problems Sunday afternoon at Jake Kline Field. The Irish swept a doubleheader from Illinois­Chicago 8-1 and 8-1 Sunday . after being swept at Michigan State by scores of 13-1 and 6-5 on Saturday. The two sweeps in opposite directions put Notre Dame's overall record at 25-20. 
"We knew we had to get back on the winning track," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "We came back, and we executed when we had to." 
Notre Dame received strong pitching performances from juniors Erik Madsen and Mike Passilla, both of whom had struggled in recent outings. 
Passilla allowed just three 

hits in 6 11.3 innings in the first 
game before giving way to 
sophomore Mike Coffey. Mad­
sen pitched a complete-game 
six-hitter in the second game. 
"They both pitched with tired 

arms and got the job done," 
said Murphy. "They've got to 
get back on track, and this was 
a confidence builder for them." 
Freshman left fielder Greg 

Vogele gave Passilla all the 
runs he would need in the first 
game with a second-inning 
grand slam. Vogele's smash 
over the left field wall was the 
first collegiate home run for the 
Cincinnati native. 
"It's great to see a freshman make the gamewinning hit or homer," said Murphy. "He's been working hard. He needs a little more maturity physically and on the field, and he'll be a fine player. He deserves to play because he's been working hard." 
Notre Dame scored twice in the third and added single runs in the fourth and sixth to put 

Greg Vogele 

the game away. Coffey only had to pitch to one batter in the seventh, retiring Flame second baseman Paul Belo on a double play to end the game. 
Madsen had similar results as Passilla in the second game. The righthander from Great Falls, Mont., allowed just one run in seven innings to raise his record to 7-4. 
The Irish managed only one hit off Flame starter Craig Niedermaier in the first four in­nings, but Notre Dame still managed to score four runs during that time by taking ad­vantage of four UIC errors. 
Sophomore rightfielder Dan Peltier doubled down the right field line in the sixth inning of the contest. The hit marked Peltier's 16th double of the season, breaking the school record. 
•
1n sweep 
While Notre Dame had its 
way with UIC, now 12-18 on the 
year, the Irish did not have 
quite as much success against 
Michigan State. 
Mike Davidson, Scott Makarewicz and Mike Koceski helped the Spartans pound out 13 runs against five Irish pitchers for a 13-1 rout in the first game.
The Irish appeared on the verge of a split for much of the second game. A third-inning two-run single by sophomore Ed Lund, who went 4-of-4 on the game, gave Notre Dame an early 4-0 lead. 
Michigan State eventually tied the game, but Peltier boomed a home run over the scoreboard in dead centerfield to give the Irish a 5-4 lead in the seventh inning of a game scheduled for seven innings. 
Notre Dame was one out away from victory after Mad­sen, pitching in relief, retired the first two Spartan batters. Designated hitter Sean Bruce singled to keep Michigan State alive, and he scored the tying run when Rich Juday hit a double on a ball misjudged by Peltier. 
Koceki led off the eighth with a triple. Mter Madsen inten­tionally walked the next two' batters, Jeff Bouchek won the game for MSU with a single past a drawn-in outfield. 
The Irish have lost 20 con­
secutive games against Big 10 
opposition. Notre Dame will 
get two chances to end that skid 
this week at Jake Kline Field, 
as Notre Dame has a Tuesday 
game with Purdue at 2:30p.m. 
and a Wednesday game with 
Indiana at 3 p.m. 

ND comes up short in weekend action 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
Mter all was said and done Sunday afternoon at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, the Notre Dame men's tennis team found itself the not-so-proud owner of two more losses than it had when the weekend began. 
Personal theories abounded, but no matter how you looked at it, the team's troubles boiled down to one thing -execution, or rather a lack of it. 
Following a disappointing 4-5 defeat at the hands of Kalamazoo on Saturday, the Irish (17-12) returned home yesterday where they were dominated by a disciplined Wisconsin team 8-1. 
Wisconsin stormed into town like a hurricane on Sun­day, destroying everything in its path. The Badgers, coming off big wins over In­diana and Ohio State, swept eight straight matches before the Irish pulled out a win at number-three doubles to thwart any attempt of a shutout. 
In the final match of the day, Notre Dame's senior connection, Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs, put away Brian Amero and Marc Schwartz in three sets, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 to go home on a winning note. 
In Saturday's match, Notre Dame's road woes continued as it battled Kalamazoo in less than fa­
vorable weather conditions. 
However, it was the team's 
struggles with itself that 
made victory so elusive. 
Simply put, the Irish did not 
execute well enough to win. 
"I could tell you that it was 

really cold and that we 
should have played inside," 
said Bayliss. "I could tell 
you that the winds were gus­
ting up to 30-35 miles per 
hour, but these would just be 
excuses. We still should 
have won. We just didn't go 
get it in the situations that 
we could have." 
Notre Dame was tied with Kalamazoo following singles play, but Kalamazoo took two of three doubles matches to secure the vic­tory. 
Second-seeded Ryan Wenger beat Tim Hufler 4-6, 7-5, 7-5. In a battle of the Daves, N.D.'s Reiter defeated Kalamazoo's Tyg­gum 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 at number­four and Paul Odland out­scored Greg Wood 6-4, 7-6 at number-five. 
The tandem of Wenger and Brian Kalbas procured the sole doubles victory for the Irish, holding off Tyg­gum and Dave Borski 7-6,6-3 at number-two. 
"This was certainly the most disappointing loss I have suffered as a coach at Notre Dame," admitted Bayliss, "and one of the all­time most disappointin2 losses in my twenty-year coaching care,er.'' 
-

You Want A Great Display Of Portable Power? 

The Zenith Data Systems Z-1 H3 Laptop PC 

suggt·sted retail prirl': our price only: 
$3599.00 $2050.00 
The Zenith Data Systems Z-1 H:~ PC gives you all the power of a desktop in a lightweight. laptop PC. Plus it 
Demo Lab 9-12 M-F 
features a dazzling blue backlit LCD screen for great 
-

readability. Along with 20 megabyte hard-disk with 
Room 113 Computing
single floppy drive for expanded storage. And you'll get longer battery life than with most competitive, 
Center -x7689
hard-disk laptops. Added to this. are some important extras ... Like service and support you can count on. As an 
Fourway Computer Prod. 
authorized Zenith Data Systems dealer, we'll help you configure your new system. (;ive you a full demonstra­
Brad Koch 277-7720 
tion. And match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs 
7'-mli ~ferns
have been met. AUTHORIZED DEALER
So come talk to us. Here's our calling card! 
.1 l~IKi'. Zt•nith !lata Sy~tl'm~ 
.. 
page 10 

Holes filled in draft 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -NFL teams went for needs in the annual draft Sunday, picking players to fill gaping holes rather than merely taking the best avail­able athlete. 
The first eight picks went about as expected, save for the choice of Wisconsin tackle Paul Gruber by Tampa Bay with the fourth pick of the round. 
Draft 
Continued from page 12 
head coach Mike Shanahan. · "Not only is he a quality ath­lete, he's a quality person. With his track background, he'll give us some excitement in 

-
both punt and kick returning, as well as at receiver. I expect he will be working extensively in all of those areas." 
Brown caught 39 passes for 846 yards in Notre Dame's 8-4 season, rolling up 1,847 all­purpose yards on 130 touches of the ball and becoming the all-time Irish leader in that cat­egory. 
"I couldn't ask for a better senior year," Brown noted. "We had a good season, win­ning the Reisman, and now to get the chance to play some­where millions of people would love to play. It's a great feeling." 
Brown watched ESPN's live telecast of the draft, and found out he was a Raider when it was announced on the air. 
"I found out just like everybody else," he said. "They called me a couple minutes afterward." 
The move to Los Angeles reunites the Dallas native with former Notre Dame quarter­back Steve Beuerlein, who was chosen by the Raiders in the fourth round of last year's draft. 
"He (Steve) called me this morning," Brown said, "and we talked about the possibility. Now we're both looking for­ward to it." 
The Patriots are looking to boost what has been a strug­gling offensive line over the past two years with the selec­tion of the 6-7, 263-pound Reh­der. Bruce Armstrong was the Pats' first-round choice in last year's draft, and Armstrong 
Finals 
Continued from page 12 
jury to last year's Mr Bookstore John "Booger" Bus­cher last Monday. Buscher, who had sat out his team's four previous games in favor of Ad­works' supersub Marty Watts, decided to play in the champi­onship game despite fear of ag­gravating the injury. 
Before the game, Buscher, who scored three points, ex­

-
pressed concern that he might not be able to finish the contest, at which point his team would have to play the remainder of the final game at a 5-4 disad­vantage since no substitutions are allowed in Bookstore Bas­ketball. 
Watts was not officially relieved of his duties until mo­ments before gametime when an apparently confused Ricky Watters dashed through a packed Stepan Court 1 grandstand onto the court. Upon Watters' appearance, Watts made yet another contri­bution to Adworks' champion­ship run by donating his shirt 

The first pick, of course, was no surprise -linebacker Aundray Bruce of Auburn, · already signed by the Atlanta Falcons. 
Kansas City than took Ne~ braska defensive end Neil Smith, for whom they had given up a second-round choice to change places with Detroit. The Lions picked Miami safety Bennie Blades, whom they had planned to take all along. 
started on the offensive line last season. 
"Tom's a physical football player, and he has a lot of room to develop," said Dick Stein­berg, New England's player personnel director. "He's got decent speed, and good speed off the ball. We'll have to decide whether to play him at guard or tackle." 
Immediately following Reh­der's selection, Lanza heard from a Steeler representative while viewing the draft from his home in Germantown, Tenn. 
"My agent had talked to rep­resentatives of New England and Pittsburgh, and we had an idea one of those teams would take me," Lanza explained. "I was surprised Tom (Rehder) went as soon as he did, and right when they announced his name the Steelers called me and told me I was next." 
The Steelers also drafted an 
offensive lineman in the second 
round, former Kentucky guard 
Dermonti Dawson. 
"Our immediate focus right 
now is getting a person who can 
play center and get some expe­
rience there before he gets put 
in the fire," said Pittsburgh of­
fensive line coach Hal Hunter, 
who has veteran center Mike 
Webster coming out of retire­
ment for a final NFL season 
this year. "But that doesn't 
mean Lanza won't also play 
guard or tackle." 
"Playing behind Mike 
Webster is a tremendous op­
portunity for me," said the 6-2, 
270-pound Lanza. "I've ad­
mired him since I was a kid, 
and I can't think of anyone else 
I'd like to have teaching me 
how to be an NFL center. 
"I anticipate getting some 
work at guard, and maybe even 
tackle," Lanza continued. "But 
at this level you've got to be 
prepared to make some adjust­
ments." 
Watters, who had worn a 

dark shirt although his team 
had been designated to wear 
light. 
"I've got to give all the credit in the world to Marty," said Buscher, "who was there whenever we needed him throughout the tournament. He could have been out there today, too, but he gave up the chance so that I could play.'' 
Dingens presented Watts with his championship trophy after the game as an expres­
ess Who's 20 Today? 
~----------~~~ 
~ ~~.;J 

The Observer 


Game 
Continued from page 12 
on the roll and George Streeter recovered the ball for the Gold at the Blue 13-yard line. Three plays later, Kent Graham hit Watters for a nine-yard touch­down and the Gold led 7-0 with 
3:41 to play in the opening per­iod. 
Mark Green returned the Gold kickoff 31 yards to the Blue 44. Green rushed two times for 19 yards and Anthony Johnson once for two more and the Blue had the ball at the White 35. Cornerback Todd Lyght then picked off a Tony Rice pass at the Gold 15. 
Blue strong safety Greg Davis then intercepted a Kent Graham pass on the next play from scrimmage. The fresh­man returned the ball 22 yards for a touchdown and tied the score at 7-7 with 1:52 in the first quarter. 
Belles then emerged as a con­tender for some playing time in the fall. Mter a Blue punt, the junior engineered a 14-play, 70-yard drive thiit ended on a Braxston Banks touchdown from two yards out. Hackett 
sion of the team's gratitude. 
On the road to the finals, on Friday, Lou's 2 QB's and 2 Blind Men beat Pop a Shot at Senior Bar 21-15 ; Tequila dis­posed of Who's Next 21-17; Chips Bar shot down Hahn's Funeral Home 21-16; and Ad­works nipped I'll Play, No I Won't 22-20, again on a Voce free throw. 
In the semis on Saturday, it was Tequila over Chips 21-19, and Adworks ousting Lou's 2 QB's ... 21-16. 
Jack Bogan 
Flanner 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Mike 
Monday, April 25, 1988 

converted the PAT and the Steve Roddy had two solo sacks Gold led 14-7. Duirng the drive, and five unassisted tackles. Co­Belles scrambled three times captain Ned Bolcar paced the for a total of 25 yards. Gold squad with five solo 
"Belles moves the football tackles. team," Holtz said. "His main "!think we rushed the passer problem has been to eliminate better today," Holtz said. "Our the bad play." secondary played well with the 
Graham later slipped in the exception of a couple of balls endzone to give the Blue a in the air." 
safety with 54 seconds to play "I think our defense next 
in the half. That cut the lead to year will be the mainstay of the 
14-9. team," Bolcar added. "We had 
Belles ~ook control again for a lot of young guys on the de­the Gold m the second half. He fensive line and they're playing used 12 plays to lead a 71-yard with a lot of quickness and en­scoring drive in the opening se-thusiasm." ries of the half to give the Gold Rice connected on 6-of-19 a 21-9 advantage. Watters passes for 133 yards and threw capped the drive with a three-two interceptions. Graham hit yard touchdown and Hackett on two passes in seven at­converted the PAT. . tempts for 55 yards. Despite 
. The Gold scored agam one se-Rice's poor completion rate, r1es later when Tony Brooks Holtz says he is throwing the flipped over the goal line from ball well. ~he one-y~rd line. The big play "I thought Tony Rice threw m that drive was a 46-yard pass the ball very well," Holtz said. from Graham to Bobby "I thought he threw the ball a Car~enter: The two-point con-lot better this spring even versiOn failed. though the stats don't show it." 
The defense had another Mark Green paced the rus­
good showing Saturday, as has hers with 70 yards on 13 
been the case all spring. In ad-carries. Green played flanker 
dition to forcing seven turn-most of the spring before 
overs, the defense recorded switching with Watters earlier 
five sacks. Blue noseguard in the week. 
High Street Storage 1212 High Street South Bend 
5' x 5' --$15/month 5' x 10' --$201month 1 0' x 1 0' --$32 I month 1 0' x 20' --$45 I month other sizes available 
288-3575 
Look Colleen, 
Someone Really Does Love You! appy Belated Birthday Love, Kellie, Trish, Liz, and Patty 



-~----------------------~-~---------------------------------------------...... 

Monday, April 25, 1988 The Observer 
Campus 
Monday 
Conference on "Issues in Alcohol Use and Misuse by Young Adults, (CIAUM) Today and Tuesday, Center for Continuing Education, sponsored by the Notre Dame and the J.M. Foundation. 
8: 15 to 8:30a.m. CIAUM "Welcome, themes of conference," by George Howard, Notre Dame department of psychology. 
8:30 to 9:30 a.m. CIAUM lecture "Relevant biological factors in the etiology and treatment of alcohol misuse and abuse," by James Smith, Shick-Shadele Hospital, Seattle. 
9:30 to 10:30 a.m. CIAUM lecture "Motivating young adults for alcohol treat­ment and lifestyle change," by William Miller, department of psychology, Uni­versity of New Mexico. 
10:45 to 11:45 a.m. CIAUM lecture "Secondary prevention of alcohol problems in university students," by G. Alan Marlatt, department of psychology, University of Washington. 
12:15 to 1 p.m. Friday forum panel di.scussion "The Honor Code: Views from the Committee" by Professor Steve Batill, Professor Ron Weber and Father Oliver Williams, CSC. Center for Social Concerns. 
2 to 3 p.m. CIAUM lecture "Spirituality in treatment and recovery," by John Keller, chairman and chief clinical officer, Parkside Medical Services Corpora­tion, Lutheran General Health Care System. 
3 to 3:30p.m. CIAUM General Discussion. 
3:45 to 4:45p.m. CIAUM lecture "De loco magistris: the university's role in moral education," by J. Kevin McDonnell, department of philosophy, St. Mary's College. 
4:15 p.m. Medieval Institute lecture "Beyond The Glossa Ordinaria: Biblical Scholarship in the 11th and 12th Centuries," by Professor Margaret Gibson, University of Liverpool. Room 715 Hesburgh Memorial Library. 
4:20p.m. Physics Colloquium "Far Infrared Spin Resonance of Donor-bound Electrons in Diluted Magnetic Semiconductors," by Professor Malgorzata Dobrowolska-Furdyna, Notre Dame. Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30p.m. English department lecture "Why Women Didn't Like Romanticism: The Views of Mary Shelley and Jane Austen," by Professor Anne Mellor, UCLA. ETS Theatre, CCE. 
4:30p.m. Navy ROTC Awards Ceremony. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 7 p.m. and 9:15p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series "Zorba the Greek," Annenberg Auditorium. 8 p.m. Department of music harpsichord concert by Darlene Catello, Notre Dame. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 8 p.m. Saint Mary's department of music Graduate Artist Recital Series Beth Sylvester, flute. Little Theatre. 
8 p.m. Saint Mary's communications and theatre department play "On the Verge," by Eric Overmyer, call 284-4626 for ticket information. Haggar College Center parlor 
9 to 10 p.m. CIAUM question and answer sessions hosted by selected Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's dormitories. 
Comics 
Bloom Cou 
mtf_IJ5Ttlo/•. 
I .. M't~F. V(JTCIJ RJI( /U. IIAKI lMT F€8Rr/111?Y. NOW CHIU 
OVT. 
\.. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
I'~ tm ffiiNG \0 St.O! I OO~H 1-11\VE 10 00 '«~Al ~0\l ~~! I C~ 00 ~~~~~G I ~NI.' 

•. \J\.1,•. 
"E~ 1\t.~ 
'I 
~ 

APRIL 27 and 28 
PLEASE: 

8:ODP.~.f 10:ODP.~
NO FOOb ot))KI~K! 

Berke Breathed The Far Side G Larson 
IT'S 50CIAUY 
CIW I t.OIITllc 
OKAY 1lJ /115t.IKE" 
!?EI/tt.Y 8/U.. C058Y 
J655e, 1l7M. 
IINPH/5
I \ ~ 


Times and places never to insert your contact lens. 




page 11 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Nail 5 Tip 9 Mouthful 
13 Assistant 14 "Thou ­
not.•." 15 Iniquitous 16 Dishonest 
scheme 17 Queeg's ship 18 Baseball's 
Aaron 19 Frighten 22 Quote 23 Negative 
prefix 24 Commences 27 Teeth 32 Pentateuch 33 Wordsworth 
and Whittier 34 Fish of the 
future 35 Entrance 36 Toffee e.g. 37 Have the 

blues ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved
38 Fuel 
39 Went to the 

polls 8 Forever 40 Boxed 9 Following 41 Cosmetic 10 Czar name 43 Lapses 11 Hue 44 Loser to DOE 12 City on the 45 Spur Humboldt 46 Frighten 14 Scrams 54 Rhizome 20 Accompanied 55 Singer Bobby by 58 -avis 21 Time periods 57 Desert cloaks 24 Actor's 58 Happening milieu 59 Particular 25 Now 80 Method 28 Come up 61 Take five 27 Person with 62 Winning no hope 
margin 28 Comic Foxx 29 Irregular 

DOWN  30 Cowboy at  
1 Ramie  times  
2 Affluent  31  Germs  
3 Heb. month  33 Party snack  42 Founder of  48 Highway  
4 US party member  36 Give thought to  Taoism 43 Goose  49 Church part 50 -bien  
5 Pursue 6 Secular  37 Orange 39 Panorama  45 Tip 46 Streetcar  51 Western pact 52 Enrages  
7 Arm bone  40 Hen's place  47 Vagrant  53 Arrived  

,.: 



The Observer/Michael Moran to give Adworks a 21-18 victory and the 1988 title. Brian O'Gara and Pete Sklko recap the action at the right. 

I 
I 
r 
r 
i ' 
.... 
Sports

Monday, April 25, 1988 page 12 
•

Adworks strikes down Tequila 1n final 


Voce too much inside as top-seed goes cold 
By BRIAN O'GARA claim the victors' trophy, Ad­
and PETE SKIKO works turned once again to its Sports Writers bread and butter. The 6-9 Voce, named Most Valuable Player 
When the rumor that Gary for the tournament, towered Voce might be teaming up with over Tequila's front line and last year's Mr. Bookstore for scored six of his team's last ten this year's Bookstore Basket­points, including the game­ball tournament surfaced late winning free throw, and ripped last month, a lot of potential down 17 rebounds. contenders shuddered at the "It's been a lot of fun playing prospect. with the guys from my dorm," 
said Voce, who missed Ad­works' first two games. "When we first came here, Dingens and I agreed to play together 

'lilllilli -­
in Bookstore our senior year. 

' 
On Sunday, with the addition At first, I wasn't going to play of Kevin Keyes, Matt Dingens because I didn't want to get in­and Ricky Watters, the rumor jured. But the team had a lot culminated in a 21-18, come­of problems and injuries, so I from-behind championship vic­decided to play." tory for Adworks All-Stars over Members of Tequila White Tequila White Lightning. Lightning weren't as enthusi­
Down 16-11 with Tequila in astic about Voce's return. the bonus, Adworks reeled off "He's simply unstoppable
Gary Voce Is fouled by team members of Tequila 
eight straight points to take a when he's playing with guys
White Lightning late in the championship game 
19-16 lead and never looked like us," said Tequila forward 
of Bookstore Basketball XVII Sunday. Voce, the 
back. Tequila helped to fuel the Sean Cullinan, who was 
tourney MVP, calmly hit the ensuing free throw 
Adworks rally by turning icy crowned Mr. Bookstore after cold and shooting 0-for-15 the final. "Even if you foul him,
• 

during that stretch, connecting he's strong enough to power it
Botham takes over 1n finale 
on only one of their last 18 at­in anyway. And it's not smart By JANE SHEA was also a very competitive points and was the force behind tempts in the game. to foul him late in the game be­game." Yurtles and Turtles. Lightning member Dan cause he makes all his free
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

"Botham held the team to­"The game was very in­Reynolds summed up the throws. He makes it a no-win 
Give Me Your Address There gether with her mental attitude tense," said Gavin. "The futility of his team's shooting situation out there." ended the 1988 Women's as well as her action on the referees' calls went both efforts in the second half. Brian Koehr, who drew the Bookstore Basketball Tourna­court," said teammate Roc­ways." "We just took a lot of bad unenviable task of guarding 
ment with a 22-20 victory over helle Holder. Maureen Shea led Yurtles shots, and the good ones we Voce, concurred with his team­Yurtles and Turtles on Sunday Give Me Your Address There and Turtles with six points. took didn't go in," said mate. at Stepan. scored first, and the score "This was the most competi­Reynolds, who was two-for-"He definitely got more in­
remained close the entire tion we've had in the tourna­seven for the game. tense in the second half," said game. ment," Shea said. "(Adworks) played good Koehr, a member of the first­
The score was tied 15 times Yurtles led 11-9 at the half. defense and all, especially in team All-Bookstore squad. "He during the game. Laura Gidley Botham scored two quick the second half, but we're the stepped up the defensive pres­scored the winning basket on a points for Give Me Your Ad­ones who didn't hit anything." sure on me and just would not 
Sandy Botham, who played free throw. dress at the start of the second The All-Stars implemented a be denied on his way to the bas­
on Notre Dame's varsity bas­"The game could have gone half. familiar strategy in the final, ket." ketball team, led both teams either way," said Gidley. "The The score stayed tight for the playing a somewhat lackluster Adworks' status before with 10 points and was named competition was very tough." rest of the game with the lead first half which led to an 11-7 gametime was very much in Miss Bookstore 1988. Another Notre Dame varsity changing hands several times. Tequila lead at the break. doubt, as it had been all week, 
"It was fun playing against basketball player, point guard Then, after the opposition had mainly because of an ankle in-friends," said Botham, "but it Mary Gavin, scored three see WOMEN, page 8 opened up its biggest lead of the game and seemed ready to see FINAL, page 10 


Raiders choose Brown sixth 
NO's Rehder, Lanza also taken in NFL draft 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 

A phone call from the Los An­geles Raiders on Saturday was cause for Tim Brown to smile when he was not one of the top five selections in Sunday's NFL draft. 
The Raiders and Brown both feel they got a bargain when Los Angeles made the former Irish flanker the No. 6 choice in the first round. 
"It's exactly what I wanted, 
Chuck Lanza Tom Rehder

and I feel great about it," Brown said. "My thinking was around," Brown explained. The rest will be completedthat, if I wasn't going to be the "The way they were talking led today.No. 1 pick, I wanted to be some­me to believe that they would The Raiders also made a place where I'd be happy both take me if they could. I wanted trade in the first round which playing football and living. to be around for the sixth pick could pave the way for some Southern California sounds after I heard that." early playing time for Brown. great to me." A pair of former Notre Dame Los Angeles dealt wide 
A representative of the offensive linemen were chosen receive~'lkie Williams to San Raiders contacted Brown on back-to-hack in the third round. Francisco for the 4~rs' first­Saturday and told the 1987 Reis­Tackle Tom Rehder was selec­round pick (26th overall), as man Trophy winner he did not ted 69th overall by the New En­well as San Francisco's second expect Brown to be available gland Patriots, while center and fourth-round selections. by the time Los Angeles picked, Chuck Lanza went 70th to the "We are very excited about Brown said. Pittsburgh Steelers. Tim Brown," said new Raiders 
"They said they would be The first five rounds of the very surprised if I was still draft were completed Sunday. see DRAFT, page 10 
Watters powers Gold to victory 
By GREG GUFFEY on the ball 12-14 times a Sports Writer game. He's a Tim Brown­
type player, but I don't want 

Freshman Ricky Watters to compare him with Tim called Irish football coach Brown. That wouldn't be Lou Holtz last week and said fair." he wanted to do what was The game signalled the best for the team in regard end of spring practice ses­to a possible switch from sions for the Irish. Holtz says tailback to flanker. a lot of improvement still is 
Watters played both spots needed before the Irish are and scored two touchdowns a good team. Saturday to lead the Gold to "We are not a good foot­a 27-9 victory in the 58th An­ball team now, but we have nual Blue-Gold Game at a chance to have a solid Notre Dame Stadium. team," Holtz said. "We've 
Watters, the co-offensive got to make a tremendous player of the game along amount of improvement witn quarterback Steve before we come back. We Belles, caught one pass for had a good winter program nine yards and gained 19 and a good spring practice, yards on four carries. More but that doesn't matter if we importantly, he established don't have a good summer himself as the player the workout and then have good Irish must go to in the fall, fall, two-a-day practices." much like they went to Tim The Gold got on the Brown last season. scoreboard first. The Blue 
"He has good hands and team's Stan Smagala has the knack for catching touched Sean Connor's punt the ball," Holtz said of Wat­ters. "He must get his hands see GAME, page 10 



