IACCENT: Dorm of the Week 
IVIEWPOINT: Victim counts her blessings 



VOL. XXII, NO. 1C TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Arrest made in Senate slates

fake bomb case 
Associated Press service·s office pending ar­
election

raignment later Monday, said HAMTRAMCK, Mich. -A Jim Ruse, special agent in 
By FLORENTINE

man carrying what police charge of the Secret Service 
HOELKER

thought was a bomb was ar­field office in Detroit. 
News Staff

rested shortly before a cam­Ruse said he did not know paign appearance Monday by why the man had the device. 
The Student Senate met Mon­GOP vice presidential can­"We hesitate to speculate un­day night in LaFortune Student didate Dan Quayle, police said. til an investigation is com­Center to discuss the upcoming The device, which looked like plete," Ruse said. 

special election for a newseveral sticks of dynamite Another man was taken into senator from district 2.

wrapped in duct tape, turned custody but was released after The resignation of Mary
out to be fake. police determined he knew Feliz has forced the Senate to"It was made up to look like nothing of the incident, Ruse call a .mandatory meeting fora bomb. It would have fooled said. 
those interested in running for me and anybody else,'' said Jim The suspect was seen at the office. The meeting will be held Huse, special agent in charge South of the Border Bar & Grill at 8 p.m. Sept. 7 in the Student of the Secret Service field office near the parade reviewing Government office in LaFor­

in Detroit. stand by someone who saw tune. District 2 includesThe Secret Service said that what looked like a bomb and Siegfried, Knott, Zahm, St. Ed­shortly before Quayle's arri­reported it to police. 
ward's, ·Farley, Cavanaugh,val, a man was arrested near The bomb squad of the and Breen-Phillips Halls.

the parade reviewing stand Detroit Police Department The Student Reports to thewhen he was seen carrying removed the device, contained Notre Dame Board of Trusteeswhat appeared to be a bomb in a paper bag, and determined were discussed. The reportscontaining sticks of dynamite. it was a fake, Ruse said. 
deal with co-ed housing, off­The device turned out to be a campus student transporta­

fake. The incident forced Quayle to tion, campus parking, and fun­The 38-year-old Hamtramck be delayed at Detroit City Air­ding of student activities.
man was arrested on charges port, and to miss a scheduled Student Body Vice Presidentof interfering with a Secret Ser­walk in Hamtramck's Polish Mike Paese considers thevice agent and was held at the Day Parade, Ruse said. 
reports very important and says they are "one of our most vital links to the Administra­

Student returns to campus after accident 
tion." 

The Senate also brought up a By REGIS COCCIA attended classes yesterday. staying in the University sence, she said. Mackett serves relatively new service. A Senior Staff Reporter "I'm doing great, slowly but Health Center. She had been in as campus entertainment com­shuttle now runs to Chicago 
surely learning the hell of hand­the hospital since the accident missioner for the Student every weekend for $10. Tickets 
Lisa Mackett, the student icapped people on this on Wednesday. • Union Board and is active in and more information are who was hit by a car near the campus," Mackett said. "Everybody in Knott Hall both the Center for Social Con­available at the LaFortune in­JACC last Wednesday, is out of "Physically, I'll be in a cast for was so super. This was the cerns and her dorm. She said formation desk. the hospital and eager to get 10 weeks. Outside of that, I am worst time for me to throw this she was very grateful to those Concern was expressed over back to her responsibilities on happy as a lark. I feel so good on them. Everybody still found who helped cover for her. the fact that of the 10,000 tickets campus. to be back on campus." time to come see me," said Yesterday Mackett met the Notre Dame received for the 
The Knott Hall sophomore Mackett, 19, sustained a bro­Mackett, a government major. driver of the car that hit her. was released from St. Joseph ken right leg and cuts to her Many of Mackett's friends 
see MACKETT, page 5 see SENATE, page 5
Medical Center on Sunday and face and left hand and is now assumed her duties in her ab-


SMC Board opens student input table 
By JOANNA GRILLO box will be placed on the Input News Staff Table so that students may familiarize themselves with it, 
The Student Government In­added Hill. put Table was granted top bil­Also of primary importance ling at the weekly meeting of at this week's meeting were the Saint Mary's Program­reminders to students about ming Board. campus events this week. 
The Input Table will be lo­These events include SAB's cated in the Haggar College first Club Tuesday, which takes Center lobby Friday Sept. 9, place tonight from 8: 30 until 11 from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. "Stu­p.m. in the Haggar Parlor and dent Government representa­features professional singer tives will be on hand to recieve and guitarist Mike Rayburn. any questions and concerns Students are also reminded that students may have," said that SAB is sponsoring a Wel· Lisa Hill, Vice President for come to America picnic for all Student Affairs. foreign Saint Mary's and Notre 
Hill added that this is a great Dame students Wednesday opportunity to make Student Sept. 7 from 4:30 until 6 p.m. Government more visible to on the Haggar Terrace. Amer­the students. The Input Table ican is the featured cuisine, in­
The great outdoors 
gives Student Government the cluding such delicacies as hot An obedient professor answers the statue's inscrip­chance to kick off their sugges­
• 

tion "Venita ad me omnes" by giving Monday's lecture tion box as well. The suggestion see BOARD, page 5 



The Observer Tuesday, September 6, 1988
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

IN BRIEF 
A car hit senior Greg Rodrigues early Saturday morning, fracturing three bones in his lower back. Rodrigues was hit as he and some friends tried to cross Eddy Street in South Bend. They were going from Bridget McGuire's Filling Station to meet a group at The Commons, a bar adjacent to Bridget's. Confined to bed in the infirmary, the Alumni Hall senior said he gets frequent back spasms. "I feel fine as long as I don't try to move," he said. -The Observer 
Mrs. Elizabeth Abeyta-Price, a graduate student in psychology at Notre Dame has received a doctoral fel­lowship award from the Ford Foundation's Doctoral Fel­lowship Program for the Minorities. Mrs. Price, a native of Espanola, New Mexico, graduated from Notre Dame in 1984. Her research is in the area of adolescent devel­opment. The Ford Foundation Doctoral Fellowship Pro­gram for Minorities is intended to increase the presence of minorities on the nation's college and university faculties. -The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the closing of the Second Vatican Coun­cil by holding a major international academic conference during the fall semester of 1990. Professor Timothy O'Meara, University Provost, has appointed a seven mem­ber faculty commitee to plan the conference. Rev. Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien-Walter Professor of Theology and chairman of the Department of Theology, will chair the committee. Other members are Frederick Crosson, John Cavanaugh, professor in Humanities for the Pro­grams of Liberal Studies; Catherine LaCugna, associate professor of theology; David Leege, professor of govern­ment and international studies and director of the Hes­burgh Program in Public Service; Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P.; William Warren, professor of theology; Patricia O'Hara, associate professor of law; and Rev. Robert Pel­ton, CSC, director of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. -The Observer 
OF INTEREST 
FaiiBreakSeminarsinWashingtonD.C.andAppalachia will occur Oct. 16-21. Students interested in the Washington 
D.C. Seminar will meet for an information night today from 7-8 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Informa­tion night for the Appalachia Seminar will be tomorrow from 7-8 p.m., also at the center. -The Observer 
Football Concession Stand Packets are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. All organi­zations running concession stands must pick up their packet before Friday, Sept. 9 or they will forfeit their stand. -The Observer 
Seniors in the College of Engineering are strongly encouraged to attend the Engineering Placement Night today at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Rep­resentatives from Arthur Andersen Consulting, General Mills, and General Motors will discuss career opportuni­ties within their respective industries. A simulated inter­view will also be conducted. The program is sponsored by 
, the office of Career and Placement Services. -The Obser­ver 
Notre Dame Finance Club Registration meeting will be held in 122 Hayes-Healy at 7:00 p.m. today. All College of Business majors are encouraged to attend and remember their $5 dues for the year. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Preprofessional Society will hold its first meeting today at 7 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. The year's activities will be discussed, $4 dues collected, and officers introduced. -The Observer 
ND-SMC Right to Life will hold its first meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Design Editor . . ... Annette Rowland Design Assistant . . . . . . Karen Newlove Typesetters... . ........... Tim Kiefer 
............. Mike Kolar News Editor... . ......... Sara Marley Copy Editor . . . ... Cindy Broderick Sports Copy Editor ... ......... Greg Guffey Viewpoint Copy Editor .. J. Scharfen~rg 


Tlae Oboener (USPS S99 2-"1000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tlae Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tlae Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Oboener is a member of Tlae Asaodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved . 
Viewpoint Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Moira ~·ox Accent Copy Editor.. ... . . . . Mike Restle Accent Design Editor ....... Mike Conway Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diana Bradley ............................................ Will Zamer ND Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski SMC Day Editor ............... Maura Reidy Photographer............ . . John Studebaker 
Student ticket problems stem from poor planning 
Problems and controversy have clouded the recent distribution of football tickets to stu­dents. The football season is one of the biggest social events of the year, yet there will be many students that will not sit with the rest of the student body because of a lack of proper plan­ning in ticket distribution. Unfortunately, there are some students that are confusing the issue, and are questioning why Saint Mary's students should get tickets with the Notre Dame Student Body.
First and foremost, it is inexcusable that the Athletic Department failed to allocate enough tickets for the student body. They should over­estimate student demand for tickets with a com­fortable margin, and sell any extras after the students have bought theirs. Although, the ticket office had planned on an increase of 300 season tickets over last year, the simple fact that Knott and Siegfried Halls both house over 200 additional students explain why they fell short. 
What's even more appalling is the recent at­titude expressed by many Notre Dame students regarding Saint Mary's students getting tickets alongside Notre Dame students. Recently, I've heard remarks like, "Why should Saint Mary's 
students get their tickets with us? They don't go to school here. They should have to wait until all Notre Dame students get their tickets first." 
It is not Saint Mary's fault that some students did not get tickets in the student section. The Athletic Department simply did not allot enough tickets, and they deserve the credit for this folly. It surprises me how quickly some Notre Dame students point the finger to our sister school because they didn't get tickets. 
Some argue that they don't go here, and we do, therefore we deserve tickets more than they do. They think Saint Mary's should buy their tickets after Notre Dame students. But Saint Mary's students are a part of the Notre Dame family, and as such have as much a right to tickets as any Notre Dame student. 
Notre Dame accepted Saint Mary's College as a sister school many years ago, and as a result must now accept her as an integral part of the Notre Dame community for better or for 
worse. 
Even though we have separate schools and administrations, all major decisions affecting either campus are shared with the other. The students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's share social, academic, and religious life, together. Socially, hall formals and parties generally con-

TONIGHT 


Will be holding a meeting for all those who are interested in working for The Observer, especially those of you who expressed interest at STUDENT ACTIVITIES NIGHT. 
The meeting will take place: 
@g(ffiJ [p[UJ 00 ffiJrn GTI®ooGg]crnw~ 9]})ffitTICrnrg 
(1st floor LaFortune) 

SEE YOU THERE! 

Mike Moran 
• 
A • • 
~
.. 

...._______________M;.;.;;I....;;S~ 
sist of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's wo­men. Academically, Saint Mary's students at­tend some Notre Dame classes, and Notre Dame students attend Saint Mary's classes. We share a religious conviction, and hall masses are regularly attended by students of both schools. With all that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students share, it would be a crime for Saint Mary's students not to be able to sit with their friends at Notre Dame, and be forced to sit in a separate section. We should not at­tempt to alienate Saint Mary's from the Notre Dame community, more specifically from the Notre Dame student body. Making Saint Mary's students buy their tickets after the Notre Dame students would degrade the Saint Mary's stu­dents and further limit the social atmosphere on campus. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege have long-standing traditions and commit­ments to each other. 
Although if you are one of the unlucky ones who did not get student section tickets, I feel bad for you because you will not experience Notre Dame football in quite the same way. You have every right to be angry. However, don't blame Saint Mary's students for being a part of the Notre Dame community, when the Athletic Department was at fault. 
..________________________________________ 
Tuesday, September 6, 1988 The Observer page 3 

A Pasquerilla West resident takes advantage of her was most certainly distracted by all the construction room's sunlit window seat to do some reading. She around the newly-renovated North Dining Hall. 
Gadhafi disputes allegations 
Associated Press 
TRIPOLI, Libya -Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi on Monday challenged the United States to prove accusations he sponsors terrorism and said he expects relations with Wash­ington to improve under the next administration. 
Gadhafi said in an interview with The Associated Press that he would like to visit the United States "if things were differ­ent" and that Libya remains a close friend of the Soviet Union despite improved U .S.-Soviet relations. 
Gadhafi said Americans who believe President Reagan's charge that he sponsors ter­rorism are "very simple people, ignorant people." 
"I challenge everyone in the world to give evidence" that Libya backs terrorism, he said. 
Reagan accused Gadhafi of sponsoring the December 1985 attacks that left 20 people dead at airports in Rome and Vien­na. 
U.S. warplanes bombed Libya in April1986 in an attack that killed 37 people, including Gadhafi's 15-month-old adopted daughter. The raid was intended to punish Libya for its role in the April 5 bom­bing of a West German nightclub in which two Ameri­can soldiers and a Turkish wo­man were killed. 
A July 11 terrorist attack that killed nine people on a Greek cruise ship was linked to Abu Nidal. who is believed to travel frequently to Libya. 

Details of Soviet bribery released 
expected to last about two
Associated Press 
months. 

MOSCOW -Officials be-In the indictment were stowed cases of wine, rare fruit details of charges that Chur­and huge bribes upon Leonid banov, 51, accepted bribes Brezhnev's son-in-law totaling 656,883 rubles ($1.04 prosecutors alleged Monday in million) while serving as first a corruption indictment so long deputy interior minister. That that its reading caused a judge is equivalent to more than 270 to nod off. years' pay for the average fac­
The trial of Yuri Churbanov tory worker. and eight co-defendants began So long was the indictment, Monday before a three-judge apparently based on interroga­military tribunal, and is giving tion of the accused, that the Soviet citizens an unaccus­prosecutor and one judge fell tomed glimpse of intrigue and asleep at one point. high living in the Kremlin. It said co-defend~mts were 
Five young soldiers from the among those who bribed Chur­Interior Ministry, where Chur­banov and the gifts to him in­banov once worked, guarded cluded a valuable carpet, two the nine defendants. Tass said china tea sets, regular supplies the eyes of the senior guard, of wine, cognac, who appeared to be about 20, pomegranates, grapes and "open wide each time the fig­other hard-to-find fruit flown to ure of another bribe is men­him via the Soviet airline tioned." Aeroflot from Uzbekistan. 
Interest is high. An elderly Those items and money woman, asked why she was came from top officials in the waiting outside the Supreme republic, in Soviet Central Court, said: "We came be­Asia, including some of the 
cause we wanted to know eight co-defendants. where our kopeks were going." Churbanov also requested 
Churbanov married Galina and received construction ma­Brezhnev in 1971 when her fa­terials from the Interior Mini­ther was running the Kremlin, stry and the Defense Ministry which he did for 18 years. provided by men from military 
construction units to build him 

She has been ill and did not a summer house, the indict­attend Monday's session but ment said. plans to come later "to give He was quoted as saying gift­moral support to her husband," giving was merely a sign of who could be sentenced to friendship in Uzbekistan. death, said Churbanov's Authorities say Churbanov lawyer, Andrei .Makarov. She was the central figure in a web probably will testify. of embezzlement and bribery 
Official media reported ex­extending from Uzbeki"stan to tensively on the trial, which is Moscow. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS:  

HANKIES AVAILABLE for $3/each W-F at the Dining Halls, Lunch & Dinner, at the Class Offices, SATURDAY around the STADIUM, & at the Senior Concession Stand at Alumni Hall  
GO IRI H! BEAT MICHIGAN  

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, September 6, 1988 
'· 

r 
' 
r 
,r 
fooW SQfvices 
r 
r 
~ 
f 
t 
, ' 
r 
PRESENT A 
GRAND OPENING 

TUESDAY• SEPTEMBER h 
LO ATED IN THE 




® SO TH Dl lNG HALL 
OPENSEYENPAYS 

24 HOURS A DA'I SERVING FOOD ATAll T/H£8 
Tuesday, September 6, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Reagan sets plans for rest of his term 
Associated Press 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. ­President Reagan is planning dual fall campaigns: an overt political one on behalf of George Bush and the other an effort to wring a wish list of items from an election-minded Congress. 
"I'm sure the president's phi­losophy right now is very much --'so little time and so much to do,"' said Kenneth Duberstein, Reagan's chief of staff. 
But Reagan's mix of lam­basting Democrats on the poli­tical stump and then seeking cooperation from them on Capitol Hill is not one that nec­essarily has produced legisla­tive successes in the past. 
"If lame duck means he's in his last year in office, then he's a lame duck, but if it means he can't get anything done, it doesn't fit," contended White House spokesman Jay Cooper, in Santa Barbara with the Reagan entourage. 
Cooper said that among other things, Reagan intends to push for Senate passage of the U.S.­Canadian Free Trade Agree­
ment  and  designation  of  a  
Cabinet-level  Department  of  
Veterans Affairs.  

With some fanfare, the pres­ident also will sign the new housing bill --seen as an election-year boost for both parties. , 
The president also will look for the near-certain approval of his two Cabinet nominees, Nic­holas Brady as Treasury Sec­retary and Lauro Cavazos to head the Department of Edu­cation. 
. ---------~ 
t t
t Ill ALUMNI m:~~~:t~=*~~~~·~=~=~~ t 
t SEN lOR ::::::~:::::::~~:::::::::~:~:::~:m.~~m:::: t 
! ~!:CLUB! 
t  ------­ t  
t tl  CLUB MEMBERSHIPS  t tl  
t  t  

I*Register any evening at the CLUBl pr fill out a form available in the
1

tStudent Activities Office, 3rd floort laFortune. t l*ONE TIME $25 fee t t t 
tA/ready registered? Pick up your: Icard when you stop in. t 
t t
l HOURS: 9:00 -2:00 WED-SAT : 
'~~~~~~ A 

Tour duLac 

These tandem bicyclists take advantage of yester-cooler weather forces them inside for their workouts. day's cooler weather to get in shape before even 
supporters. The Senate promised to look into the mat­
Senate 
ter.
continued from page 1 

A representative of the Michigan State game, only 300 Graduate Student Union ex­are made available to the stu­plained the purpose of the new dent body through a lottery. branch of government, saying Apparently the remainder are that its main purpose was to sold to alumni and other school integrate graduate students 
Mackett 
continued from page 1 
The 31-year-old Mishawaka resident came to visit her in the infirmary and brought a second bouquet of roses, Mack­ett said. 
"He's a really nice guy, but he was really sweating it out. He didn't talk at all," she said. "It wasn't his fault--he wasn't ticketed. He offered to drive me anywhere off campus I need to go," Mackett added. 
During her hospital stay, Mackett said she had at least 50 visitors. "A lot of people told me they came to see me Sun­day, but I was already dis­charged (from the hospital)," she said. While still in her hospital bed, Mackett wrote a letter of thanks to the campus which appears in The Observer 

today. 

"I am very pleased with the reaction and with the support of the Notre Dame family," said Father Andre Leveille, director of Campus Ministry. 
Leveille, the University chaplain, visited Mackett in the hospital every day. He said Mackett's parents were "very grateful for the support, the love and the caring they saw from the people at Notre Dame." 
Mackett was crossing Juniper Road near the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter when she was hit. She had been waiting in line for football tickets for six hours and went to buy some ice cream from a truck across the road. 
with the rest of the student body. 
Upcoming events were also mentioned, some of which in­cluded: the opening of the 24­hour student lounge today, an upcoming fall formal for sop­homores on October 7, and the Student Union Board's semes­ter presentation of movies. 
"I had already gotten across one lane. I saw him the second before he hit me," Mackett said. "I did a total flip and landed about 70 feet behind on 
the pavement. I seriously thought I was going to die." 
She remained conscious while others rushed to help her. Frank Timons, a friend of Mackett's who was standing behind her in line, rode in the ambulance with her. 
Mackett finally got her foot­
ball tickets, along with a card 
from Head Coach Lou Holtz. 
The recuperating sopho­more's immediate plans in­clude catching up on school­work and learning how to use crutches. "I think I'm going to start helping the handi­capped," she said. 
Board 
continued from page 1 
dogs and hamburgers. The food is free, and all are welcome. Another event scheduled for the evening of Wednesday Sept. 
tives who hold the same posi­tion at Notre Dame. Julie Par­rish, Saint Mary's President for Student Affairs, added, "This is the beginning of some­thing good." 

7 is a joint Student Government dinner with Notre Dame repre­sentatives. According to Hill, this is a great way for Saint Mary's Student Government reps to meet with representa­
the~~with thedtilication~ 
amarathoner and the 
rourage ofan explorer. 
We need 1 Pea.;-t Corps. mlunlftr Call Ullll-800-4%4-8580, E•1. 91 




f(lr 1ht facts caD 1our kxal Rtd Cross. '" "mt .\IDS . 
+
.-\mmcan Rtd cross t:rn= 1\llshingtDil. DC 2(XJ06 
Business 

page 6 Tuesday, September 6, 1988 
Public Service of Indiana sells nuclear power plant 
Associated Press Regulatory Commission will 
be interested in the total fig­
ure PSI is finally able to sal­
PLAINFIELD, Ind.-vage when the utility files Public Service Co. of In­for new, permanent rates in diana has raised $58.5 mil· ApriL lion by selling remains of the ''That will be an area we abandoned Marble Hill nu­will look at closely,'' said clear power plant and may Robert K. Johnson, deputy not end the sale as early as consumer counselor, whose expected. office represents the public 
"The sale of · material in utility rate cases. originally was scheduted to "It would be our position cease at the end of the year,'' that PSI should not be un­said PSI spokesman Mike justly enriched through sal­Goss. "But it may well con­vage efforts," he said. tinue past then. Our gains In June, the commission have more than offset the ordered PSI to begin reduc­cost.'' ing its rates 13.2 percent, re­
Among the items still turning them to where they available are a pair of con­were before the Marble Hill crete containers for nuclear abandonment forced an reactors, cable, pipes and emergency increase. valves. PSI also was allowed to 
Construction of the plant divide a one-time cash was halted in late 1984 after rebate of $50 million among the utility had invested $1.4 its 572,000 customers. Those billion in the project on the rebate checks, about 610,000 Ohio River near Madison. to current and past PSI 
The project brought the ratepayers, were mailed utility to the brink of finan­Friday and should reach · cial disaster and it sought to customers this week. recoup its losses through in­Meanwhile, the commis­creased rates. However, sion continues to monitor the consumer groups protested, utility's recovery from its citing state law that loss. prohibits passing on the cost "We are just pleased to be of power projects until they on the road to financial come on line, and the utility recovery sooner than was was required to make expected," Goss said. rebates and temporarily In Madison, security halt dividends to stock­guards patrol the quiet,holders. 1,000-area site as the salvage 
The most popular items continues. The only recent have been office furniture activity was sparked last and equipment. An auction month when two small in 1985 netted $900,000. blazes were ignited by a 
The Indiana Utility workman's cutting torch. 
Overseas is the place to be 
By MATT CROWLEY the average American's ignor­With students from Ecuador · Business Writer ance in international matters and Bahrain just down the hall, is the fact that our nation's it might be worth the effort to 
A popular comedian on Sat­businesses are missing out on make friends. Not only could urday Night Live has made a tremendous investment possi­they be good friends and possi­career out of trying to bring bilities. Only recently have ble contacts later, but they will America his view of the "Big companies from the West take back a positive view of our Picture." While the phrase has started to tap the huge markets country home with them. caught on, very few people, es­in China and that country's Students also need to ask pecially in the business world, even larger labor force. their professors how to apply seem to consider the interna­Businesses in the U.S. class material to the interna­tional "Big Picture." scream for protection in tional scene. 
BusinessWeek has warned Congress, claiming trade Too many times professors American businessmen of the policies abroad are making the shove the chapter on interna­economic juggernaut that is international market unfair. tional management or market­Japan Inc., and occasionally Their solution is to close the ing to the end of the syllabus, one will see an article in the doors to hold off the subsidized only to drop it due to lack of Wall Street Journal about "Hell foreigners. time. Ask them to cover the camps," training centers material you need to get the which try to bring Japanese One wonders why we don't jump on our competitors while management techniques to use our Yankee ingenuity to in-you still have the time and 
U.S. executives. . vade their turf; part of the an­access to the information. 
Yet few corporate leaders try swer to that question is foreign Besides the obvious route of to understand the culture and trade barriers, but another learning like taking classes in history that motivate the busi­part stems from the fact that international history and in the ness revolutions in nations like our companies would rather field of linguistics, just going Japan and Korea. Americanize overseas markets to see speakers like the 
than try to understand why our Fulbright scholar can give one 
When a Fulbright scholar toasters just don't sell abroad. an edge other businessmen and Notre Dame graduate Could it be that they don't eat don't have. came to speak about his work toast? A final suggestion on how to in Japan with MITI, the Japan­Being at an institution like get a better view of the "Big ese government's business Notre Dame, students here Picture" is to actively partici­regulator, only ·two or three have a wide panorama of ways pate in international affairs dozen listeners, mostly non­to get a better look at the "Big clubs. Getting involved in or­students, were there. He pre­Picture" and come up with ganizations like AIESEC and sented some rather startling ways to take the battle to Japan the Model United Nations Club views; he said businessmen in Inc. will help broaden one's field of Japan were terrified that their The most logical way to get vision. economy was constantly on the to know other cultures is to go There is no excuse for our na­verge of collapse. there for a semester. The Uni­tion to fall by the wayside and 
But the fast-track business versity has study programs become a "service industries" students at Notre Dame never that go everywhere, from Italy country. We can do better than heard this message or his in­to China, and are definitely that; it's just a matter of whe­sights on how to defeat the Ja­worth looking into. ther or not business students in panese red-tape without having One thing most students the U.S. have the determina­to resort to dreaded trade sanc­overlook is the backgrounds of tion and guts to outlearn and tions. their own classmates and hal­outwork their competitors
The most amazing aspect of lmates. overseas. 
Free market justifies legalized drugs 
By RICH COGLIANESE owners. free will would be once again 
(of books published in 1987) ER
Business Columnist Since drugs have been made recognized by our government. 
0
BOOKS HARDC V

illegal, they have been under As with many other sections 
(PER

"JUST SAY NO." It seems the control of the sleazy under­of the American economy, drug 
PUBLISHED VOLUME)

like a very simple solution to world kingpin. By legalizing laws are an unfair intrusion CATEGORY 
(RUNS) 

one of the most complex prob­drugs, more respectable com­into the market place. There lems facing American society. panies would handle the distri­are two people who have Sociology &Economics 6,491 $31.50 Like most simplistic solutions, bution and sales. Instead of decided to contract an agree­
Fiction 5,647 $16.89
it is wrong. The problem of drug wars conducted by the ment and since we are at least drug abuse will not stop by footsoldiers of irreputable a nominally capitalist society 
Juvenile Fiction 3,794 $11.41
simply telling people to avoid kingpins, companies would be (although socialism has it. Instead, it is time to legalize competing with each other in a creeped into the American eco­Medicine 3,339 $38.08 drug abuse and allow the phar­free market economy. The. nomy), we have the right to maceutical companies to han­drug lords would be forced out contract. Government cannot Science 2,755 $42.89 dle refining and distribution of of business. It is a historical interfere in free trade. So I say 
Religion 2,303 $22.64
these drugs. Only by the use of fact that the liquor business no to "Just Say No." But make the free market can we truly was immediately cleaned up it a decision with alternatives 
History 2,250 $29.26
alleviate this problem. once prohibition ended. The instead of that inane saying it These drug laws have been same thing would be true for has become. Technology 2,164 $41.67 about as effective at stopping the drug world. 
The opinions expressed in this NOTE:
drug use as prohibition was in Also, since the free market 
column do not necessarily 

Figures are preliminary estimates of the number of titles in each category.
stopping the consumption of al­would set prices, people would 
reflect the view of The Obser­

cohol. While making great not need to steal to support Average hardcover pnces are for books costing less than $81. 
ver or the Notre Dame commu­

strides economically, we have their drug habits. Both private 
nity. 

Basic data: Publisher's Weekly The Observer/Geoff Sauer
never progressed past the "Gin property rights and individual 
is Sin" stage. While I am not ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
advocating the use of drugs 
(the use of drugs is an irra­! SRETAN RODENDAN i 
Notre Dame Avenue 
tional act and therefore wrong), government has no !• PAUL! i• 
Apartments
..........................11! •
right to tell me how to live my life. America is supposed to be 
NOWRENDNG FOR FALL 
the land of freedom where 
i i•
li·



people are allowed to make their own choices. Although I • • H • 
realize that since Roosevelt in­: : appy 21 st : troduced the welfare state •• • making this but an empty • • • promise, a moral government • • • still realizes a citizen owns his • • • life, and not the government. • • • 
: : Love-:
Government regulation of any 
: : MOM DAD :
industry should be considered a grave sin to not only the con­
! ..t~ ! MARIA DANNY i 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & malntenence, all deluxe features 
Office at 820 ND Ave 234-6647 
sumers, but also the business _ Call Anytime
.. ~ . ....~..........~.,....................~...... 
Tuesday, September 6, 1988 
The Observer 
e7 


AP Photo 
Shake it up baby 

Wi Haereti, a New Zealand Maori warrior, emphasizes Te Rei; Michael Fay, the head of the New Zealand his point as he issues a challenge aboard the New America's Cup challenge, and boat skipper David Zealand yacht competing in the America's Cup. Ob­Barnes. serving Haereti are (left to right) Maori elder Patariki 
Floods inundate Bangladesh 
More name calling heard on holiday 
Associated Press 
Presidential rivals George Bush and Michael Dukakis campaigned on opposite sides of the country on Labor Day, with Bush linking his Demo­cratic opponent to "the liberal left," and Dukakis asking, "Can we afford four more years" of Republican eco­nomic policies. 
Vice presidential nominees Lloyd Bentsen and Dan Quayle also were on the road Monday for the symbolic kickoff of the fall campaign, using the oppor­tunity to find fault with the heads of the opposition tickets. 
With little more than two months remaining before Elec­tion Day, the rival candidates tested campaign themes at rallies in key states. 
Republican nominee Bush was in California where he said the campaign is "foremost about jobs and peace. It's about protecting the gains we've made in jobs and peace and it's about how to make new breakthroughs in both areas." 
Dukakis told a holiday rally in Detroit "the time has come to bring prosperity home to every home in every neighbor­hood in America. The time has come to stop ignoring foreign competition and start beating it." 
The Massachusetts governor cited Census Bureau statistics he said showed that "the rich have become richer, the poor have gotten poorer" during the Reagan presidency. 
People carrying Dukakis­Bentsen signs stood at the back of the crowd when Bush spoke and chanted, "Where was George?" 
About 30 members of a group called the AIDS coalition to Un­leash Power, heckled Quayle and said they were protesting his vote against a $30 million appropriation to provide the drug AZT to AIDS victims. 
"My friends, I ask you, can we afford four more years of that?" he said. 
"High paying jobs being replaced by low paying jobs, average weekly wages down over the past eight years, benefits down over the past eight years," he went on. "My friends, I ask you, can we af­ford four more years of that?" 
Campaigning in California, Bush said Dukakis opposes the MX and Midgetman missiles, the Star Wars missile defense program and two new aircraft carrier task forces. 
"I wouldn't be surprised if he thinks that a naval exercise is something you find in Jane Fonda's workout book," said the vice president, in a refer­ence to the actress who was a leading activist against the Vietnam war. 
In his speech on the San Diego waterfront before a backdrop of two aircraft carri­ers anchored in the harbor, Bush said his opponent follows "the standard litany of the liberal left." 
Associated Press 
BAILTALI, Bangladesh ­Among the millions of home­less in flooded Bangladesh, barefoot women clambered from boats Monday onto the only strip of this village still above water and surrounded army officers who doled out food. 
They pushed each other in the light rain to get at the giant cooking pots. They stuffed fist­fuls of cooked rice and lentils into their own pots and bowls, or into the folds of their mud­stained saris. 

Floods have submerged three-fourths of the nation and claimed at least 406 lives this summer, according to official figures. Daily tallies in Dhaka newspapers put the death toll at 1,015. 
More than 92,000 people are known to suffer from diarrhea and 5,715 more from dysentery, the Health Ministry said. 
Taslimur Rahman, joint sec­retary of the ministry, told reporters in the capital of Dhaka that people get the dis­eases by drinking impure water, often the very flood water that maroons them. 
Officials say water purifica­tion tablets are being dis­tributed but residents of Bail) tali, a village of 2,000 people 55 miles southwest of Dhaka, said they had not seen any. 

YourBasic 
Problem: 

The TI~74 BASICALC"" is a BASIC calculator that's also an advanced scientific calculator. In effect, it's two calculators in one. 
In its BASIC mode, you have direct, two-keystroke access to 41 BASIC commands, as well as 10 
YourBASIC 
Solution: 
. ·:.·.. ·.· .· .. 
The Tl-74 BASICALC: The BASIC language programmable calculator from Texas Instruments. The mathematics and statistics cartridges are two offive optional application software available. 

use than any other programmable Stop by your bookstore and see calculator. both sides of the Tl-74 BASICA.l.C Your BASICAI..C specs: for yourself. Either way, it'll blow 
• 
8K RAM expandable to 16K RAM. 


• 
113 BASIC keyword set. youaway. TEXAS~ 

• 
Optional software cartridges for chemical engineering, math, statistics and finance. 

• 
Optional PASCAL language cartridge. 


• 
Optional printer and cassette interface. INSIRUMENlS 


"'T.,.Jemark of Texas Instruments lncorp.ll3ted ~)1988 TI. 
user-definable keys which can make doing your coursework a basic snap. 
Switch to its calculator mode and you're armed with 70 scientific functions to help you easily solve those tough technical problems. 
And the large, color-coded keys, QWERTY keyboard and separate numeric keypad make it easier to 

r 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 6, 1988 

page 8 
A post-accident perspective on life 
Editor's Note: The following is an open letter from the student who was struck by a car last Wednesday by the JACC and is now recovering at the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
Dear Gang: 

Last week when I was on retreat with other student leaders from various campus groups, I prayed that God would give us all time to stop and enjoy 
Lisa Mackett 
guest column 
all the wonderful people in our lives in the midst of our hectic schedules. God may work in mysterious ways, but I was hoping He would be a little more subtle than to have me hit by a Porche. I guess that's what it takes for some of us to slow down. 
To put all the rumors to rest, I was not joy riding on the T-tops. Like every 
A white Jackson: 
'.­
an "also ran" 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the View­point article of Tom Varnum in the Aug. 29 issue of The Observer. In his column, Mr. Varnum stated that the only reason Jesse Jackson lost the Democratic nomination was because he is black. Mr. Varnum then went on to interpret that America is basically a bad place because of this. He said that if Jackson were white, he would currently be the Democratic presidential nominee. I disagree. If Jackson were white, he would have been the first candidate to other true Domer, I was in the sixth hour of my vigil for football tickets. Having missed lunch, I was walking back across Juniper from an ice-cream truck (I told them they were in a good location). I can't say whose fault it was. Before I knew it I had flipped over the car, taking out the front and rear windshields, and landed on the pave­
ment several feet down the road. Since that moment, I've never felt so much love and care in my life. 
I could never explain to my parents what was so special about Notre Dame, but I think after this week, they under­stand. My hospital room looks more like a florist shop and at times sounds like an off-campus party. I've been re­ceiving calls and flowers from people I don't even know. The only downfall is that it makes me miss campus so much more. I'll be more behind in thank-yous than I will be in my school work, so this is for everyone: Student Activities, stu­dent government; the whole flock at Moreau Seminary; the sophomore class, most of whom witnessed every­thing; my friends "in the dining halls ; everyone at SUB whom I left hanging; the women of St. Mary's, especially 5 North Regina; my old home P.E.; the most dynamic dorm on campus that is Knott like any other dorm; Mary Sue, RA of the year after only two weeks; Jan Poorman, the rectress who can han­dle anything; everyone who came to see me and said, "It's not that bad"; the greatest friends, too numerous to mention, who will never know how much they gave to me; my roommate Vernie, the fun has only begun; John my buddy; and Tom, no explanation necessary. "Thank you," won't do you justice for what you've all done for me. 
They say I was pretty lucky to get away with a few stitches, scars and a broken leg. I don't count on luck for anything. I count only on love. Before Wednesday you'd never hear this out of me. I lived hour to hour, meeting to 
·P.O. Box Q 
drop out of the race. He would not have finished second; he would have finished last. 
The only reason anybody paid any attention to Jackson was because he is black. Blacks voted for him because he's black and those whites who did sup­port him did so because it made them feel liberated. In the Democratic debates, none of the other candidates could attack him because if they did they would have been accused of being racists. I agree that Jackson is a great speaker, but this wouldn't have been enough if he were white. The voters would have realized that the man has never held an elected position and thus would not know how to handle a large government. They would laugh at him 

.-------------------, and vote for somebody else. If Jackson 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submit­ted to the Viewpoint department. Please note the briefer the piece, the greater its chances of reaching IPrint. 
Doonesbury 
were white, he would not have been a major factor in the primary race, he would have been just an "also ran." 
Brian Amer 
Stanford Hall 
Sept. 1, 1988 
Military necessary to restore peace 
Dear Editor: 
While one can hardly doubt the good intentions Michael Garvey expressed in his article of Sept. 2 about military sci-
I [)()NT !<NOW. BUT
LOOK, [)OlE a< KEMP 

IN TH£ FINAl-ANAL.Y515, PROBABl-Y a!OUW HEiP 
THI7 010103 HAS 70£38 
aJ/3 Nf3f3[) 50M£30N8 WHOWHa 
A E30W ONI3. ai13'V8
7HG Ttc;m; 8UT THeY 
LAN A[)[) SOM/3 H8FT, 50/1113
7HF3N? 
60T 7D DO SOM&­
l 80TH COMF3 ON 700 
E3f3l3f; 50/11& 1416/GHT TO 
7HIN6 7D TU!<N

1 §TR.ON6 FOR. 660R66. I ' TH& TICK&T! I 
THI3POU~ 
/
AR.OUNO. 
\ 
ence and the Catholic faith, his conclu­sion, "Military science will always be profoundly at odds with (the Faith)," betrays a dangerous reluctance to face the realities of horror which thousands of Americans have had to endure during our brief history. No one, of course, would deny that military sci­ence concerns itself with how to kill people, yet we should note that killing is one of several means of effecting the final end of peace and order. Futher­more, military science insists that kil­ling another human being will always be a last resort. In concrete terms, if a thief has broken into my house and threatens to murder my wife and children, I am obliged to urge him by all means to surrender. If he does not give up, the means of causing him serious injury or death in order to preserve my family's well being is not only justified, it must be insisted upon. To do otherwise would be tantamount to acting as an accessory. 
A war between nations, of course, in­volves many more complex issues than the above, but Mr. Garvey can ignore these by covering them with that perni­cious blanket of absolute pacifism. I say absolute because Faith is absolute, and Mr. Garvey insists that Faith diametrically opposes military sci­ence. 
Garry Trudeau 
HI, 6UY5! 
NOT HOW
ANYON£3 NOW, ABOUT
FOR GOI-F7 
I 
I 
OANNY... PIJC.­W£3.8 
H£3RMA!.f2 

meeting, all-nighter to all-nighter. That was my way of getting "the most out of life." Everyone always taught me to do for others, and I still plan to dedicate my life to that. Thanks to some very special people, I'm learning how to do that by slowing down. It's not how much you do, but what you do. I realized very quickly how grades, papers, rules, and all the little things we stress over aren't worth the trouble. Make a list of the five biggest worries in your life; then imagine lying on the pavement with blood everywhere, in more pain than you've ever felt, not knowing if you're going to live or die. That list becomes worthless. Now recover and, although you look terrible, you'll feel like you've never lived before. Don't ever forget that feeling. 
With all my life, thank you all so very much. (I can say all this because I did get football tickets! ) 
Lisa Mackett is a sophomore enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Furthermore, Mr. Garvey's compar­ison between the military and establish­ments such as the pro-abortion lobby and the pornography industry is not only wrongheaded, it is indecent. If we turn to "Gaudium et Spes," a document written with sobriety and balance by the leaders of our Faith here on Earth, perhaps we can ehminate our confu­sions about the unhappy need for the 
military establishment: 
"Certainly, war has not been rooted out of human affairs. As long as the danger of war remains, governments cannot be denied the right to legitimate defense once every means of peaceful settlement has been exhausted. There­fore, government authorities and others who share public responsibility have the duty to protect the welfare of the people entrusted to their care and to conduct such grave matters soberly. 
"Those who are pledged to the ser­vice of their country as members of its armed forces should regard themselves as agents of security and freedom on behalf of their people. As long as they fulfill this role properly, they are making a genuine contribution to the establishment of peace." 
David M. Woods Holy Cross Hall Sept. 5, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"The love of our neighbor in all its fullness simply means being able to say to 
him:  'What  are  you  going  
through?'"  
Simone  Weil  (1909-1943)  

"NO Magazine", May, 1980 
Editoral Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly  Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on  News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran  Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns  
campus, through letters, is encouraged.  

Founded November 3,1966 
Accent

Tuesday, September 6, 1988 page 9 
Breen-Phillips has that extra something 
AMY WEBER accent writer 

H
appy Birthday to Breen­Phillips Hall! The south­west corner of the North Quad turns 50 this year. Al­though it is not the oldest dorm on campus, its tradi­tions run deep and its spirit high. 
Junior Karen Croteau is not alone when she says that the spirit is the number one quality of the dorm. "There is definitely a lot of spirit. Everyone participates in a lot of the hall activities, and we always have really good at­tendance. Nobody holds anything back." 
Three-year rector Judy Hutchinson agrees, "The spirit is amazing! So many 

Even at age 50, Breen-Phllllps ret<~lns much of Its charm. 
CDr:J~ 
[ 11 II ]
of the 
~~~ 
l l 
people participate in hall ac­tivities. But one of the finest qualities of BP is the way the residents cheer the other resi­dents on." 
That caring attitude is an­other highly touted attribute of Breen-Phillips. The homey atmosphere of the hall pro­vides residents with a more than suitable home away from home. Freshman 
The ObMrVer I Ulur11 Ully­
Deandra Villarreal was pleasantly surprised with the attention given her upon arri­vaL "I didn't know anything about BP before I got here. But everybody was so nice and ready to help me out," she said. "It really made me feel at home, and that helped. I feel so comfortable here, I have everything I need." 
Many freshmen enter the dorm not knowing what to expect from a place whose reputation precedes itself. But Breen-Phillips' reputation as the B-of P-(I just couldn't bring myself to write that! ) is quickly fading. Resi­dents prefer the initials to stand for the Best Place to live. Senior Mary McCarthy will miss BP when May rolls around. "No matter what our reputation is around campus, it really is a great place to live." 
But Breen-Phillips' reputa­tion is changing itself. Recent dorm achievements are changing the face of the once all-freshmen hall. It is inter­esting to note that BP used to house the athletic offices on its first floor, considering the athletic powerhouse that BP has since become. It boasts the trophy for the 1987 inter­hall football championship, a title hard-earned and well­deserved. Basketball, soccer, and tennis squads also boost the BP image. 
Long-standing traditions keep getting better at Breen­Phillips. The hall's spring Spirit Week is quickly becom­ing a major event. It has in­cluded a roommate game (similar to "The Newlywed Game"), pool parties, ice skating, BP clothing day, and 


Juniors Jill Skonlcky and Ann Brogan reach new heights In keeping BP residents up on events. 
Thursday night dinner with your neighbors. The week usually ends with an all-hall semi-formal. Last year, however, the first annual Keenan Rebuttal, co­sponsored by Breen-Phillips, ended the seven-day festival. 
One tradition that seems to get stronger annually is the BBFarley rivalry. The friendly competition between the neighboring dorms has become a little more fierce in these days of potential foot­ball championships. Junior Mary Beth Roveda says her attitude towards Farley has matured since she was a freshman: "When I was new here, I had a inkling we were better than Farley. Now I know we're the best place on campus." 
Breen-Phillips residents are proud not only of the spirit of their dorm, but also of the spiritual aspect. The BP liturgical commission works to provide weekly Masses with an "extra something." Time spent sharing in the first-floor chapel bonds the BP residents in a special way. Sunday night Masses are highly attended, and par­ticipation is great. 

Did you know that Norm Peterson (George Wendt) from "Cheers" once occupied room 133? That should ex­plain any urge to yell "NORM!" as you walk the path in front of BP. But you don't have to be a television star for Breen-Phillips to rec­ognize your worth. BP is proud of its people, proud of its past, and excited for the future. 
It's the Year of Cultural Diversity 
T 
LAURA LINDER Dame students and faculty accent writer members was organized in an effort "to raise the level of he event of the year has ' consciousness of all members enveloped the Notre of the Notre Dame commu­Dame campus, literally be­nity to the importance of cause it spans the entire 1988-minorities in American life 89 academic year and be­and culture." cause of the impact it will Under the leadership of Fa­have on the Notre Dame com­ther Oliver Williams, associ­munity as a whole. ate provost, the committee 
What is this great event? It has organized a wide variety is the arrival of prominent of programs that focus on the minority artists, intellectuals, important contributions of businesspeople, and clerics to minorities to American his­Notre Dame. It is the Year of tory and culture. It is Wil­Cultural Diversity. liams' belief that "most of us 
The Year of Cultural Diver­are culturally deprived in sity is the product of a spe­that we don't recognize the cial report from the Commit­role minorities have assumed tee on Minority Students in our culture and the role appointed in November of they will increasingly play in 1986 by Provost Timothy the future. " O'Meara. The committee's According to Williams, the mandate was to "advise on plan is to "incorporate a pro­strategies for enhancing all gram from every department aspects of the presence of of the university involving minority undergraduate and their particular people into graduate students at the Uni­the Year's plan, whether it be versity." the personnel, athletic, or phi­
The Committee's report losophy department." He is was submitted to University enthusiastic because most of President Father Edward the departments at Notre Malloy in June of 1987. As a Dame have responded to the response to their recommen­call for minority recognition. dations, a committee of Notre The schedule of events cer­tainly reflects Notre Dame's committment to this great event. Many of the academic departments have invited minorities who have reached a level of excellence in their fields to lecture on their specialties. other activities include art exhibits, featured music groups, and Masses said by a black and a Hispanic bishop at Sacred Heart Church. 
One of the highlights of the Year is the performance of Miriam Makeba, her troupe, and Hugh Masekela on Octo­ber 9 in Stepan Center. She is a world-renowned vocalist from Johannesburg who is a symbol of the plight of her people, the oppressed of South Africa. She recently com­pleted a six-month tour as the "Special Guest" on Paul Simon's Graceland Tour. 
Given the quality and num­ber of the programs within the Year of Cultural Diver­sity, it is evident that all of the members of the Notre Dame community will gain valuable exposure to the in­dispensible contributions of minorities to American life and culture. 

Opcorning Events 
September 7 Deborah Gray White, Rutgers University. Topic: The Transformation of Twentieth Century Black Feminism. 4:45p.m., 283 Galvin Life Science Center. Hosted by the Department of History. 
September 15 Dr. Jawanza Kunjufu, Afro-American Images. Topic: Countering the Conspiracy to Destroy Black Boys. 7:30 p.m., Library Auditorium. Hosted by BCAAMinority Affairs. 
September 16 The Ballet Folkorico Azul y Oro, at the Center for So­cial Concerns (Mexican Independence Day). 11:00 a.m. Hosted by the Center for Social Concerns. 
September 24 The Notre Dame Marching Band presents a Hispanic show at halftime of the Purdue football game. 
September 25-26 Christian Business Values in an Intercultural Environ­ment: a Conference. 8:00p.m., Center for Continuing Education. Hosted by CCE. 
September 29 Roy S. Roberts, Vice President, NAVISTAR, Inc. Topic: Minorities in Corporate America. 122 Hayes-Healy. Hosted by the College of Business Administration. 
· ..... 
---~--~~-~-~-­ 
r  
page 10  The Observer  Tuesday. September 6, 1988  

~ 

SPORTS BRIEFS . 
A new sportswriters meeting will take place immediately following The Observer or­ientation meeting that starts tonight at 9 p.m. in Montgomery Auditorium of the LaFortune Student Center. Anyone interested in writing sports for The Observer who is unable to attend and who did not attend this past Monday's meeting should contact Marty Strasen at 283­1471 or 239-5303. -The Observer 
Irish football players Mark Green and Tony Rice will be guests on the season premiere of WVFI's (AM 640) "Speaking of Sports" tonight at 10 p.m. Listeners can join host Greg Guffey and WVFI sports director Jamey Rappis by calling 239-6400 with their questions or com­ments. Prizes will be awarded throughout the show. -The Observer 
The WVFI sports staff will hold a meeting at 9 p.m. tonight in the WVFI studios on the second floor of LaFortune. Old and new mem­bers should attend. Call Jamey at x2265 or Greg at x1560 for more information. -The Observer 
Irish Outdoors (formerly "Alpine Club") is having a general information meeting Wed­nesday at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room at the first floor of LaFortune. Anyone interested in canoe­ing, backpacking or cross country skiing is en­couraged to attend. Any questions should be directed to Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Ob­server 
The NO track team will have a mandatory meeting Wednesday at 4 p.m. for all events in the indoor and outdoor season. The meeting will be held at the Loftus Center auditorium. -The Observer 

The NO Men's Volleyball Club will hold tryouts for the 1988-89 team at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday at the Joyce ACC Pit. You must attend Wednesday night. For further information. please call Jim Sullivan at x1844 or Mike Shimota at x1986. -The Observer 
The NO Gymnastics Club will hold a meeting today at 4:30p.m. for all those inter­ested in joining the club. All old members are required to attend Tuesday's meeting, which will be held at Angela Athletic Facility in Saint Mary's College. Any questions should be di­rected to Terence Kelling at x1866. -The Obser­ver 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
n.a.--Notrw o.me office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, eccepts classified ~sing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. n.a.--Saint ~office, located on the third floor of ~Collfle Center, eccepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtday. DMdllne for next-day cluslfleds Is 3 p.m. All cluslfleds must
Classifieds be pntpeld, either In person ~ by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five ~per day. 
TRANSFER STUDENT PICNICI NEED 1 OR 2 GA TICKETS FOR THE I HAVE MICH. TIX.... WILLING TO

MICHIGAN MICHIGAN NEED 10 GA'S TODAY!I!I
NDSTANFORD GAME OCT 1ST BIG TRADE 2 GA's of MICH. FOR 2 MIAMI 5:30 P.M. STEPAN FIELD~N_O_T_IC_ES~~ ~~-W_AN_T_ED__~ MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI NEED 12 GA'S BUCKS $ PLEASE CALL JEN 284-4385 GA's OR 2 STANFORD GA's. I MAY
CALL GARRETT 287-5871 PRESENT AND FORMER TRANSFERS 
ASAP. EVEN SELL THEM Wbut TRADING. SO TYPING AVAILABLE I NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH ANY 
INVITED

CALL 272-9136 ASK FOR SUZV. TIX 287-4082 WEEKEND SOON. CAN OFFER RIDE iiei:P·;;;:;eE'i.i'2'81A't,i.Fo.iio<3A'·s:wii:l.
NEED MICHIGAN OR STANFORD TIX TIX TIXGA'S. WILL PAY$$$$$! PLEASE CALL

BACK. DAV&27Hl758. PAY BIG $. CALL 284-4099 OR 284· 
# 3770 SEX! SEX! SEX! 
5455 NEED ONE STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX,DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT STUDENT BANDS TO PLAY AT DOWN­
Now that I have your attention I need277-2944 KAREN $$$$ 
IF INTERESTED CALL TOWN BAR. WE PAY WELL. CONTACT WANTED: TWO MICHIGAN GA'S ... TOP i..t,ie'eo·:r·lci<·e;:s··;:o..PLifioue.i3A'i.1e Purdue tix Call Jim at 277~5798 MARK x1177 PETE BEFORE 2 P.M. MONDAY THRU 
$$$ PAUL (616)-926-2986. 

SEPT. 24. WILL PAY$! AMY 4363 NEED STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICH. SATURDAY AT 289·8031 OR SEAN AT Do you have anyone coming out for the GAME!II CALL MATT X2054 
289-1021 AFTER 6 P.M. Need Mich tix more than any human on so.fiei:v.N'ee·i.i·1·s;:u·i.i:·:rx·;;·oR'.t:1ic-MICHIGAN game from VIllanova or WORDPROCESSING 
earth, no kidding. Call John at x1178. Philadelphia? My brother needs a ride 
NEED 1 MICH TIX WILL TRADE 1 STUD !I call 272·5891, Barb.
237-1949 N.D. administrator's kids (ages 6 ¢ 7) 
MIAMI CALL KURT X3626 need sitter. T and Th. 2:30-4:30. $5-tlr. 
I need any home GA's. PLEASEIII Call 

Monica at 41891 $$$$$$$$$$$$ HIGAN GAME. WILL PAY BIG $$$OR to all of my girlfriends, and my one TRADE PENN ST OR MIAMI STUD. TX. 
Mike x7943. 
4 GA FOR MICHIGAN 45-50 YARD LINE boyfriend, THANK YOU ALL!!! I had theDressmaker will create that special gown 
CALL 232-3616 you need for evening or weddings. Call Needed: NDSMC student to babysit for 
I NEED MICH TIX CALL MIKE 4113 CALL ANDY AT X1876. BEST 21st! You're all great and I love 
you!!! (and yes, I did puke, kumbaya!)

Betty at 7458 days or 289-1321 eves or children of Scripture Study Group mem­NEED 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE; CALLNeed 2 Mich tix Stud or Ga Call Kevin
weekends. HELP ME! I NEED 3 GA'S FOR THE Love, Theresa
bers at St. Joe Church one morning a 
ROGELIO 277~4416 week (9-11) for appr. 5-6 wks. starting in 288-9303MICH. OR PURDUE GAME. HAVE 
TYPING WEALTHY RELATIVES WILLING TO HEY JOYCE! GLAD YOU MADE IT
Oct. Transportation provided. Call 277­RETURNING '88 GRAD NEEDS MICH.
JUST SELL ME YOUR TICKETS NEED 

PICKUP & DELIVERY PAY BIG$$$. CALL BECKY 284·4376 HOME IN TIME FOR YOUR BIRTHDAY! 
9882 for more info. 
TIX STUDENT OR G.A. ANY PRICE I!!
277-7406 4 for PURDUE, MIAMI # 1771 GMtu GOTTA HATE THOSE ATTIC
CALL X 3278 AND ASK FOR STEFF RIDE OFFERED TO PITT EXITS, I.U.P. 
TOASTMASTER'S II INTERNATIONAL MY BRO SUFFERED THRU THE ENCOUNTERS WITH RANDOM 1ST MEETING AT ST. MARY'S FUZZV ERAI IS THERE A MICH TIX FOWL!!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY
ATTENTION, ATTENTION, ATTENTION WATERLEAVE 9-!W!B, RETURN Qt1268 CALL 
FOR SALE 1 TICKET FOR MIAMI JIM, 1935 !!!II Desperately need three student tick­
LEMANS BOARDROOM AT 6:00PM. FOR HIM? BILL x4640 YOU PIGLET!! LOVE, YOUR ROOM­
GAME. SOLD TO HIGHEST BIDDER.
ets or GAs for the Michigan game for friends from New Mexico who have never 

EVERYONE WELCOME! MATES
CALL 3534 CECELIA RELIABLE SMC Student for delivery of 
HELP!! Friend from Calif. coming! Need been here. Will pay good money. Please

1 Mich. ticket GA or stud. $$$$$ Call HAPPY BIRTHDAY call Mike at 1661.
CHICAGO TRIBUNE & USA TODAY 
MY FUTURE AT THIS SCHOOL SMC-GOOD $$$ & X-MAS BONUS-call 
Jeanne x3021 or 1713 N 0 E L 1111
DEPENDS ON YOUR HELP MATT 277-1859 
(SERIOUSLY!) DESPERATELY INTIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX 
HELP! I NEED 1 MICHIGAN STU. TIX. With much love and adorat1on and other 
' LOST/FOUND I 

NEED OF 4 STANFORD GA'S. WILL UNIV PIZZA DLVY-Now Hiring Driver>!' 
WILL PAY$$ ! CALL JOHN AT X 2153 TIX I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN gooey things, from the Alumni guys
PAY OR TRADE AIR FORCE OR RICEAND WE WILL LOOK AT ANY OFFER.
LOST: Set ot keys, one keyring having & Store Help! Good Pay, Flexible Hours! 

GA'S. CALL MAUREEN 284-5052.
CALL 277-7260 AND LEAVE A MES·

sentimental value. Keys are # 346. HEY! The He-Man Woman Haters Club would 
Apply 18055 St Ad 23 or call 277-8889 Reward if found. Call Paul at 3610. I NEED A TICKET TO like to wish a special Happy Birthday to
SAGE IF WE ARE NOT AROUND. U OF MICH GA'S FOR SALE. BEST OF­
THEY'RE FOR RECENT ALUMS AND

THE MICHIGAN GAMEl one of its most notable adversaries. Have 
······························· FER. EVES CALL LIZ 284-5328.
FOLiNo:·L~~i mo~~Y order, call BEN # WHAT ELSE IS NEW, RIGHT? THEY CAN USE STUDENTS OR GA'S, a great day, Noel Raymond!!!! 1488 CALL CHRISTINA AT 2759. 
SO CALL 1111111 TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX NEED 2 GA'S TO EITHER PENN STATE 

TICKETS 
TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX 

BEYOND COOL STANFORD STUDS OR RICE. MONEY ABSOLUTELY NO
FOUND: one Honda key in D-2, some­WILLING TO SATISFY ANY HOT
PROBLEM. CALL 284·4404.ALSO WILL 
time on Friday. If you can identify the I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & ALL HOME MICHIGAN TICKETS -1 or 2 needed -2 Mich GAs needed Call Jim at 277-6405 CHICKS' NEEDS. LOOK FOR VON ZIP
TRADE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S FOR 2
model and color of your car, you can GAME TIXS.272-6306 Call Bill at 288 3955 Tue or Wed 7 to 10 OR BOUNCY ON 1ST FL.
MIAMI.
FOR SALE II! 2 MICHIGAN TIX

have your key back. Don't be surprised PM. 
(SECT.28 ROW33 ·SOYD.) 1ST CALLER NEED 2 MICH TIX-STUD. OR GA. 284·
if there are a few more miles on your NEED GA TIX FOR ALL FOOTBALL FOR A CLUB EXPERIENCE LIKE NO 
$300 CALL GARY/JOHN# 1410 5089

car. Just kidding. Call Bill at x1407. HOME GAMES. 272..0058. The epitaph on my father's grave will OTHER JOIN THE NEWLY FORMED 
read: My only regret in life is that Notre TURKISH AWARENESS CLUB (TAC). FouNo;·ii'E-TA:iN.eii·i;:;·soiiTii.oiNiNG Dame couldn't play Purdue TWICE a HELP!! I'M DESPERATE! (yeah, what's NO WE ARE NOT KIDDING -JOIN IT
HELPIII NEED GA TIX FOR MICH, NEED 2 MICH TIX-STUD. OR GA. 277·
new?!) I need 2 G.A.'s for the MICHIGAN 

HALL ASK FOR CLAUDINE IN SOUTH NOW !!! CONTACT CENGIZ (1658) IN
STAN, MIA, RICE, PENN ST GAMES 1513. 
DINING HALL. year, so that we could watch them lose game. Please, help me out. Call Kevin 508 GRACE, OUR ESTEEMED PRES.
CALL CHRIS AT 272-0882 
twice as often. Help him watch stinking at x3179. i:osr:c;;.:sio'<3ii;;.:Piiic..cA'CcuCAroR P.U. lose at least in football. Need TWO ROUND TRIP TICKET SB TO LONG IS· 
NEED TIX FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL 
PERSONALS
ON Qtl. IF FOUND CALL ERICA 5507. G.A.'s for the P.U. game (Sept.24). I NEED 2 MICH GAS CALL X2281 LAND FOR FALL BREAK. NEGOTI­
GAME. CALL 287-3311 DAYS 7-5. 
MONEY REWARD. Please call Beth x1264. ABLE. CALL SEAN. 272-1089 PENN STATE G.A'S WANTED 
................•.....

DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENTNEED (4) NOTRE DAME·PENN STATE 
Is anyone up for a ROADTRIP?? How 2 11CKETS call John or leave name x · ORDER THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE for
IF INTERESTED CALL about watching Notre Dame crush Navy? 3068 on-campus delivery-call 277-1859 TICKETS\ CALL COLLECT DAVE OR 
MARK x1177 For TWO tickets, call Beth x1264 (Will
FOR RENT 

KIM, DAY 317·243-9430 OR NIGHT 
317-839-9334.. FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH~ also trade for TWO Purdue tix) WILL TRADE 2 TICKETS FOR MIAMI I DESPERATELY need 5 GA's for Mic­ORDER USA TODAY delivered to your .................... .............................. OR PURDUE FOR 2 GOOD TICKETS dorm door. CALL 277-1859
higan. I can as NEED GAs FOR PENN ST. OR ANY TO MICHIGAN, AIR FORCE OR PENN
BORHOOD 255-3684288-0955 WILL TRADE 2 ND-MICH TIX FOR 2 get by with 2 of those 
student tix. My family is willing to pay aNO-MIAMI TIX. CALL 407-727-8354. 
HOME GAME.$$$$ x1281. CLUB COCHABAMBA
lot of$$$$$. Please caiiT.J. at283-1837. RENT.NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 
FuiiNisiieo· iioi;ies..&..iiooi;is··;;c;F! STATE. PHONE DAVE, DAYS AT (419) 
626-0025 A special thanks to all our distinguished 
WE WILL TRADE MICH AND STANF SEEKING EXCITEMENT AND ADVEN­members who made our opening night Efficiency apt. near N.D. $160 & $140 GA TIX FOR MIAMI TIX. CALL 684-1304. I've got four Mich. GA's. Will trade two TURE? TRY LEADER­a total success. The Management: GQ mo. Call 259-4943. MSU TIX For ule and trade Mike S. # for Miami GA's. Will sell the others! JP Joe, Boricua, Freedom Fighter.
SHIP/EXCELLENCE AT NOTRE DAME. 3419 TICKETS NEEDED BADLY. FAMILY -1378 
ARMY ROTC MEETS FRESHMAN P.E. FOUR FLAGS FARM COMING FOR PURDUE GAME. GA'S CLUB SMC 8:30·11 MIKE
REQUIREMENT. CALL CPT WARRICK TUESDAY BED 'N BREAKFAST. Juat 20 mlns. AND STUDENTTIX WANTED. WILLING one STUDENT for AT 239-6264. RAYBURN
NEED FOOTBALL TICKETS Purdue: 3 I need 2 GAs and 
GA'S or 2 GA'S and 1 student Stanford: PURDUE and one STUDENT for AIR Reeerve now. 616-471·5711. 2 student tix. or 2 GA'S PLEASE CALL X2742. FORCE PLEASE call Holly x29561 I HAVE 2 FRIENDS WHO NEED A RIDE 
from NO. Ideal for all NO activities. TO PAY GOOD $$$. CALL TOM AT EXPERIENCED DRUMMER SEEKING 
DIANE x2147 FROM U OF M TO NOTRE DAME THIS 
BAND. TOM AT 277-7571 Nice fum. home. Safe area near N.D. I NEED ONE MICHIGAN STUD OR GA. NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. Will pay good WEEKEND. IF YOU KNOW ANYONE 287-6389-683-8889 I need 2 or 4 G.A. 's vs Mich. Call Joe at WILL PAY OR TRADE STANFORD $ OR will trade ANY STUDENT TICKET MAKING THE ROAD TRIP, CALL ME.
PEAVEY P.A. SYSTEM FOR SALE255-7770 before 9pm. STUD. CALL DAN X1310 PLUS GASH for them. Give me a calli JENI 284-4430
400w head, 150w cabinets Excellent! 4 bedroom house. Nice neighborhood. Melissa X4341 or X4553. 
condition, AWESOME sound call Paul $400. 288-3613. MIGH. TIX FOR SALE CALL 2871 BEST
Desperately need 1 Mich GA. Big $$ in­
x1847 anytime HEY ROCK­
volved. Call Andrea at 3858. OFFER Help! Last time mom and dad saw NO WILL IT BE ITALIAN, SEAFOOD OR 
ROOM AVAILABLE JUST OFF ANGELA play Miami it was a cold rainy night and 
Premier 4 piece Drum kit FOR SALE Just MEXICAN TONIGHT? 232·3616 refinished, make me an offer call Paul AH, LET'S JUST MAKE A TRIP TO MC 
I have FOUR Michigan tickets to trade I NEED 3 TICKETS FOR PURDUE they beat us. They really want to see NO for FOUR Miami tickets. Please call GAME,$$$$ IS NO OBJECT. CALL get revenge. Will trade 2 Mich. for 2 
x1847 anytime DONALD'S!
ASAP if interested. Call Karen x2722. 
PATRICK AT 283-4645 Miami tix-call 2805. 

My family -From MIAMI-wants to see the ROCKFEST 88 
FOR SALE 

HELP!! NEED THREE MICHIGAN GA'S. I need Michigan Student or GA tlx. NEEDED 1 student or GA for Mich call 
Irish blow away the CANES Don't let ROCKFEST 88 PLEASE call Angle at 283-3878. ...Ghr!§. ~T!.:.?.~!H..................................... them down II need 4 tickets for the MIAMI SEPTEMBER 7
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" 

ANYTHING YOU WANT. CALL SAM AT 
My relatives decided yesterday to come game. Money$$$$ is no object -at all. 
HAVE YOU GOT YOUR ROCKS259-8337. HELP! I NEED 2 GA TIXII ANY GAME down for the Mich. Game. Please help Call Paul x1847 anytime. READY? 
COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS 
TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS 
EXCEPT AIR FORCE. I have 3 A.F. to .me find them tickets. I want to stay in
TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE NEED 2-4 PENN ST TIX. WILL THROW trade or pay $$$$ CALL KATHY X4208 the Family. Ready to talk$$$$. Call MIKE BUSH -QUAYLE '88 PHONE 1121 MIKE CONWAYDELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­

IN 1 STANFORD TICKET IN ADDITION OR 4279 1089 BRAVO!!!!
TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. TO$. CALL 2133. 
RIGHT TO LIFE 
NEED 3 GA AIRFORCE tx call 2724 i..t,iE'ei:i'2'rlx··;:c;··;;;ic.Hi<3i\;:;··a·.\t:1E'. 

RIGHT TO LIFE 
TIM IRVINE

87 CAMARO, FIRE RED. LOADED, LIKE I NEED 2 TICKETS My family is coming NEED NOT BE TOGETHER. GA'S OR Firat Meeting: TIM IRVINENEW. $85ootl.O. CALL X3856 into town for the Michigan game. Please MUST HAVE 2 TO 4 MICH. GA'S C.J. 
STUDENTTIX. MONEY IS NO OBJECT. TUESDAY SEPT 6 help me find them a place in the stands! 1382 
CALL BRAD x4245

;;~;·s~i~·;·iiao·H~;;;j~·c;;;i~$600-;;;;il2iiii: MONTGOMERY THEATRE LAFOR· YOU'RE IN THE BATTER UP POSI·
Call me at 272-5535, ask for Michelle 
9666 TUNE TION ... ARE YOU READY TO OUT-DO
I NEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS. CALL ;,;;v···ii-Fio:l-He···R"eceN·;:···N·i.i···<3iiA"i.i. 

7:00 P.M.·ALL WELCOME THE CONWAY MACHINE?!
Want to sell PITT TIX or trade for AIR MIKE X3528 SOMEHOW THOUGHT IT GOT EASIER
iiA'iii:iA'N:K~;,;;;-~·;a&;·;;;;;;;i~~;,-2(;;~~ 

FORCE??? Call x2831 TO GET TIX TO THE OPENER. ALUMNI HEY ROCK·per channel & Technics SL -1300 au1o­NEED 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI WILL PAY ARE ALL ALIKE. GIVE HIM A BREAK ANYONE INTERESTED IN HELPINGmatic direct drive turntable. $125 a piece. 
HELP I NEED 2 MICH GA'S. WILL PAY BIG $$$$$$$$ CALL BRIAN AT 272­
AND SELL ME 2 TIX TO THE MICH ORGANIZE OR INTERESTED IN BIG$$$$. CALL TOM 1856
232-8161. IrS A GROOVY KIND OF LOVE!!
0291 GAME. CALL ELLIE AT X4678. JOINING THE N.D. SKYDIVING CLUB i:1ic'.:ti<3;;.;:;··;:ic:i<E:r··;;c;F~··siii:e'i'ses:r CALL DEAN 287-3024 
I NEED THREE GA'S FOR THE RICE I HAVE 2 MICH GA's and ALL HOME i.iesP.eFiii;:e.iii..i..~~;;;;···;s·:··;;~···;;~i:~
OFFER BY WEDNESDAY, 8:00PM JIM TO THE 3 HEADSTRONG WOMEN OF
GAMEl PLEASE CALL X2743 
GAMES. Taking BEST OFFER by WED. right, 16 GA's to the Penn St. game. Call CLUB TUESDAY CLUB TUESDAY NOON x1219 BOB any time ..please! Nancy 4434 SMC-HAGGAR PARLOR 8:30-11 
-1935 253: VD IS DEAD!
................................................................ 

·r­
.------------~--~-------·-~--------~~-~--~~--~--~. ---~--~ -~ ------~----~----­
Tuesday, September 6, 1988 
ND rugby squad ready for opener 
For the Notre Dame Rugby Club, the first match of the season is also considered the most important. 
Last year, the Irish defeated Michigan in the opener and posted a 9-1 ledger for the fall season. The two rivals meet again Saturday at noon behind Stepan Center to kick off the fall campaign. 
Greg Guffey 
Assistant Sports Editor 
"If we beat Michigan, our season usually goes pretty well," club president Jim Lammers said. "Last year we beat Michigan and had a good season. If we win that, our outlook on the season will be pretty good. Michigan prac­tices year-round, and they have good coaches and leader­ship." 
More than 70 athletes came out for this year's squad, a good number considering the competition with Interhall sports and other student activities. A factor in the turnout could be the success of the Irish during the past two years. 
"It'll be interesting," Lammers said. "We lost a lot of outstanding people. So this year we're going to try to play a team-oriented game. If we jell, we could go really far." 
The biggest event of the year for the rugby team will be the Indiana Union Tourney to be played, oddly enough, in Louisville. The winner will advance to the Midwest Union Tourney. 
The Rowing Club ~ill open its fall season Sept. 24 in the Head of the Ohio. The squad will compete in four races during the fall semester. 
"It should be pretty good," club president Mike Ham­mett said of the first race. "Our main competition will be Cornell. This year we have a better boat and a lot more water time before the race. Last year, we didn't get on the water until three weeks before the first race." 
The men's varsity squad will boast 30 members, while the women's team will have 25. More than 300 students are trying out for the novice group. 

THE THOMAS J. 
\ V lHITE CENfEl{­WFORLAWAND 
GOVERNMENT 
Notre Dame Law School 
PRESENTS A LECTURE BY Larry Gostin, ESQ. Executive Director American Society Of Law & Medicine On "The Nucleus of a Public Health 
Strategy to Combat AIDS" 
12:00 NOON 
THURSDAY,SEPT.8 ROOM 220 LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 

The Observer page 11 
LennOn key to Irish success 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY  Irish. The team plays in the summer on a state, regional  Lennon, who is very happ:·1 with the progression of th ~  
Sports Writer  and national level.  team  thus  far,  is  most  im­ 

It is only the second week of As a freshman varsity ath­pressed with the spirit of th,~ her college career, and already lete, free time is not something players, a spirit that Coach Molly Lennon has made a place that Lennon will have to deal Grace has emphasized and in­for herself in the complex and with extensively. She does, stilled. competitive world of Notre however, harbor non-athletic "He initiated it, but its like Dame athletics as a member interests. In high school, she an epidemic, it just caught on of the women's soccer team. was involved in both the school and spread," she said. Perhaps this involvement can newspaper and literary maga­Although she has played in be explained by her extensive zine. Her experience has also the midfield and as a stopper background in the subject. included stints in student gov­in the past, Lennon started out 
"I grew up at Notre Dame, ernment, as class treasurer for the Irish season against In­not in South Bend," explains two years and as class vice­diana University-South Bend Lennon, an area native. president for two years. at sweeper, a position which 
She is the youngest of five She would like to continue her she describes as having to do children, and the fourth to play involvement at Notre Dame with communication and re­major college athletics. In ad­outside the athletic community sponsibility. dition, her father, Notre Dame by joining such groups as The "My asset is my aggressive­Alumni Association Director Big Brothers-Big Sisters of ness," said Lennon, echoing Charles Lennon, has been in­South Bend and by continuing the words of Coach Grace. volved in Irish baseball and her activity with the Special Grace sees her as being a basketball in the past as an as­Olympics, but she's "still player who, despite her fresh­sistant coach. Thus, the trying to adapt and adjust to man status, has already be­tradition has been instilled in the college schedule." come a team leader. her sipce youth. One person who has confi­"Molly has a lot of potential 
"In the back of my mind I dence in Lennon's ability to as a soccer player. She hasn't always dreamed about coming persevere is Irish head coach played as many years as some to Notre Dame and being a part Dennis Grace. of the others, but she has the of it, as an athlete, and as a "Molly is a survivor," he attributes that make a succes­student," Lennon said. said. "She will succeed at sfull player: desire, personal­
Lennon's interest in soccer is whatever she wants to do. For­ity, drive, determination and a rather recent one. Already tunately for Notre Dame wo­enthusiasm. She's a coach's playing volleyball, basketball men's soccer, what she wants dream." and softball at Adams High to succeed at is soccer." Lennon, in keeping with her School in South Bend, she only Lennon's personal goals optimistic attitude, is confident had time for pick-up games of reflect a parallel between team in the future of the women's soccer as a freshman and soph­and player. team. omore. "It's always been hard for "We're new, and people need 
When the high school team me because I haven't been to give us a chance," she said. went varsity in her junior year, playing as long," she said. "So We have a lot to look forward she was advised to join and did I just want to work on becom­to." so, at the expense of volleyball. ing a more skilled player, to And Molly Lennon, starting She has reinforced her experi­play the best I can and learn the third week of her already ence with two years of playing as much as I can this year, be­promising Notre Dame career for an under-19 travelling cause it's going to get tou~­certainly has a lot to look for: 
team, known as the Junior her." 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH S(HOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
' ., ~-. ' I\. .
•. ' '. .I ,' ;:.. l 
. ..... ' ' I' > _)
I . \, ·~/'/I~'.·,~~~
.•.. :_ / 
...... ~-"--"l~ '· '> /
'~:t~ . .,_ . .::~ 
OON·r D«IVE DRUNII,ORII'IOf. WITHAIIYOJff WHOOO(\ 

With love, JOE STEPHEN, DAMIAN, BRENDAN JEANNINE 

ward to as well. 

NY downs Redskins 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Tom Flynn returned a blocked punt 27 yards for one score and Jim Burt returned a fumble 39 yards for another within 2: 13 of the fourth quarter as the New York Giants rallied from a 13-0 deficit to beat the Wash­ington Redskins 27-20 Monday night. 
Despite an offense that could generate almost no yardage on the ground and a defense mis­sing the suspended Lawrence Taylor and the injured Leonard Marshall, the 1986 Super Bowl winner managed to beat last year's NFL champion with two offbeat plays. 
UARTERBACK LUNCHEON 

Friday -September 9, 1988 WAITERS/WAITRESSES NEEDED Call 239-7859 for Details A University Food Services Production ....................................................................................~....................~~~ 



page 12 The Observer Tuesday, September 6, 1988 
Hurricanes assume top spot 
AP Photo 
Wide receiver Dale Dawkins and the Miami Hurricanes are the new No. 1 team in the country. The Hurricanes pounded previous No. 1 Florida State, 31-0, last weekend. 
some time at guard while soph­omore Tim Ryan is a good blocker at back-up center. Senior Marty Lippincott and 

e Dame freshman Justin Hall are among the tackles who have looked good while battling for 
Knights of Columbus
playing time. 

Grunhard said the recent im­provement has a lot to do with the players getting used to lining up with one another. 
NO's Only Fraternity invites you to an OPEN HOUSE 
with interviews and refreshments on FINAL DAY 7-10 pm 

We're 
next door to the bookstore! 

Associated Press 

The Miami Hurricanes, col­lege football's defending na­tional champions, have regained the No. 1 ranking just one game into the new season. 
Saturday night's 31-0 trounc­ing of Florida State, the preseason No. 1 team, vaulted Miami from sixth place to the top in this week's Associated Press poll. Nebraska remained No. 2 while Florida State dropped to lOth. Texas and Washington replaced No. 11 Texas A&M and No. 18 Tennes­see in the Top Twenty. 
Miami received 38 of 60 first­place votes and 1,149 of a pos­sible 1,200 points from a nation­wide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. Nebraska, which has been No. 2 in each of this season's three polls, received 14 first-place votes and 1,113 points following a 63­13 rout of Utah State. 
Houston quarterback sidelined with injury 
Associated Press Moon suffered a fractured 
scapula in his right shoulder 

HOUSTON -Houston Oilers when he was tackled by quarterback Warren. Moon will linebacker Cliff Odom early in be sidelined four to six weeks the third quarter of Sunday's with a shoulder injury suffered season-opener. in Sunday's victory over In­Moon will miss Sunday's dianapolis, Oiler officials an­home opener against the Los nounced Monday. Angeles Raiders and also will 
likely miss succeeding games 

"Obviously, I'm very disap­against the New York Jets, New pointed to have this injury at England Patriots and Philadel­this time," Moon said. phia Eagles. 
"We're coming together," he explained. "We had a long way 
Line 
to go, but we're looking for­
continued from page 16 
ward to the Michigan game like you wouldn't believe at thistight end position he held last point. We're going to surpriseyear. Junior Dean Brown (6-3, some people. When we play to­

283) looks to have won the other gether, we have the potentialtackle job. 
to be one of the best offensive Snapping the ball is sopho­lines in the country." 

more Mike Heldt (6-4, 258), who Definitely a change of tone.
boasts only 15 minutes of 
EXTRA POINTS: Sophomore
playing time in 1987. 
tailback Tony Brooks ran a"We're young, but we've got number of plays Monday andto be (ready)," offensive line junior fullback Anthonycoach Tony Yelovich said. "We Johnson also had some carries. 

work to improve steadily, and 
Brooks has a fractured footI think we've done that over the that is being watched on a day­courseofthe fall. You're never to-day basis. Johnson injuredpleased. You always have his ankle earlier in the fall and room for higher goals. But I missed practices last week, but think we've gotten much better Holtz said both backs could be fundamentally.'' 

ready for the Michigan game. 

Competition for starting Senior defensive tackle Tom roles has helped to push the Gorman (pulled chest muscle) linemen along, Yelovich said. 
also might be ready to play Sat­Junior Ted Healy and sopho­urnay, Holtz said. 

more Brian Shannon look to get
'L 
Miami coach Jimmy Johnson isn't getting caught up in the No. 1 hype at this point. 
"It's really too early in the season for a coach to be con­cerned about the rankings," Johnson said Monday. "I wouldn't even address it one way or another. 
"We have a very young team and a lot of difficult games to play. Our only concern right now is going up and playing Michigan (on Sept. 17) in a place that's very difficult to play in. All we've done is win one game." 
Clemson, a 40-7 winner over Virginia Tech. climbed from fourth to third with three first­place votes and 1,003 points. Oklahoma, which opens its season this week at North Carolina, slipped from third to fourth with two first-place votes and 969 points. 
UCLA held onto fifth place by crushing San Diego State 59-6. 
The Bruins received two first­place votes and 941 points. The other first-place vote went to Southern Cal, which defeated Boston College 34-7 and rose from eighth to sixth with 878 points. 
Auburn, which gets under way this week against Ken­tucky, remained seventh with 768 points while Georgia jumped from 12th to eighth with 703 points after beating Tennessee 28-17. 
Michigan moved up from lOth place to ninth with 639 points. The Wolverines open this week at Notre Dame. Florida State rounds out the Top Ten with 600 points. 
The Second Ten consists of LSU, West Virginia, Notre Dame, Alabama, Michigan State, South Carolina, Iowa, Penn State, Texas and Wash­ington. 

Invitation 
OFFICE OF 

to Sacramental Preparation 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

Baptism, Full Communion, Confirmation 
in the Roman Catholic Church 
INFORMATION SESSIONS: 
Tuesday, September 13: 
7pm: 
8 pm: 


Tuesday, September 20: 

7pm:  -for baptized Catholics willing to join with and act as sponsors for persons who wish to become Roman Catholics.  
Bpm:  .-for people interested in being sponsors for those • Catholi.:s preparing for Confirmation.  

Meeting Place; Campus Ministry Conference Room, Badin Hall 
Please call: Sr. Mary Curran, CSC Badin Hall 239-5242 

-for unbaptized people interested in joining the Roman Catholic Church. 
-for baptized people interested in Full Communion in the Roman Catholic Tradition. 
-for Roman Catholics interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation. 


LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o lifesovong Red Cross CPR course. 

+AmericanRedCross 
l!1 


Tuesday, September 6, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Top seeds advance at U.S. Open 
Associated Press NEW YORK -Steffi Graf and Martina Navratilova, moving a step closer to a championship showdown, overcame shaky starts to steam roll into the U.S. open quarterfinals Monday. Graf, losing more games than she had in her three previous matches, beat American Patty Fendick 6-4, 6-2 to move within three vic­tories of the first tennis Grand Slam since 1970. Navratilova, who took a nap just before the match, appeared to be sleepwalking as she lost the first four games to Elna Reinach of South Africa. But the two­time defending champion awoke in time to win 10 straight games en route to a 6-4, 6-1 victory. In men's play, top-seeded Ivan Lendl, No. 4 Andre Agassi and No. 6 Jimmy Con­nors breezed into the fourth round. Aaron Krickstein upset the Wimbledon champion and third seed Stefan Ed­berg 5-7, 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (7-2), 4-6, 7-5 in a 3-hour, 52-minute match. 
Second-seeded Mats Wilander advanced to the quarterfinals with a 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 victory over Mark Wood­forde, the Australian who upset John McEnroe in the second round. 
Lendl stretched his Open winning streak to 24 matches with a 6-1, 6-4, 6-3 victory over American Scott 
vr tfte newest 1't! ra t'ess;'ve 
r ~G 
___'_,_ 

AP Photo Gabriela Sabatini advanced In the U.S. Open Mon-tlnues this week with the finals for the men and day with an easy, straight-set victory. Action con-women set for Saturday and Sunday. 
Davis; Connors eliminated Hlasek of Switzerland 6-2, 6­Pieter Aldrich of South 4, 6-2. Africa 6-3, 6-2, 6-3, and The No. 7 women's seed, Agassi beat Johan Kriek 6-3, Helena Sukova, was beaten 6-1. 2-6, 6-0. by No. 14 Katerina Maleeva 
Two men's seeds, No. 12 6-1, 6-3. Joining Maleeva in Guillermo Perez-Roldan the quarterfinals were fifth-and No. 15 Anders Jarryd, seeded Gabriela Sabatini were ousted from the tourn-and No. 11 Zina Garrison. ament. Perez-Roldan was "I couldn't tell which way beaten by Jorge Lozano of the wind was blowing," said Mexico 6-4, 6-4, 5-7, 7-6 (7-2) Navratilova, who is seeded and Jarryd fell to Jakob second behind Graf. "It blew, then it stopped for a little while, then it blew again. I hit some lobs that went a foot long. I just couldn't judge the wind." 
Navratilovaliterallyhada hard time waking up for the match. 
"I probably shouldn't tell you this, but I took a nap before the match and I wasn't quite awake at the beginning," she said. 
)· 10 '. 

• f ~,.,,. . , "u~, n~n 8 .LS'v0AG08 ... · 
...~~~;. ~,.4 Bu y c L··~A~··~s~~~·s· n:.•. .........!.':!f:! >IAJ,;_DI~,;o~~ I Ll/(t=
~·~,.). IFIEDS·....~...,.,U!vs 
• .:>~' . #_ ~-i ~.,<i.-<>' 1< ""_,,., "" , ld ..... ~E T'~t 
, '1-~ '"'"fl ~ ---.,"'~: ..,.,. "'e . NJ ~r IN
J.,·<S! at Campuo View? Pt
a-~Q"orl
1¥11v 

How to start your law career Defore you start lawsChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nation-wide! And candidates who score over 40 on the LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 125 centers for 
information and class starting dates. The Kaplan ·LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
DON'T COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
CLASS STARTING NOW! 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 

Dillon men win biathlon 
Special to The Observer 
Dillon Hall's Brian Rini, who won last year's biathlon with roommate Dave Steigerwald, paired with fellow Dillonite Sean Barry this year to take first place in Saturday mor­ning's biathlon. 
Rini swam half a mile in St. Joe's Lake, and Barry ran a two-mile distance around St. Joe's Lake and St. Mary's Lake in a total of 21 :50 to finish first in the event sponsored by NVA (Non-Varsity Athletics). 
"There was a lot more com­petition in the swimming part," said Rini. "A lot of people on the varsity swim team competed, so there were a lot more people on that level." 
Dave Ledrick placed second with a time of 22:00. The senior from Morrissey was the first finisher among the individuals who did both the swimming and the running. 
The team of Chris Petrillo and Tom Doyle completed the biathlon in 22:04, good for third place. Paul Godfrey finished fourth with a time of 22:22. 
Amy Tri was the first woman to finish with a time of 24:24, placing ninth overall. The second woman finisher was Christie Moston with a time of 29:09. 
The biathlon had a 59-person (or team) field, up six from last year's total. 
"It was a very good turnout," said Matt Haney, a graduate assistant with NVA. "It ended up being a great day for a race, and the rain held off." 
F 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, September 6, 1988 
Red Sox assume command in East 
Mets 7, Pirates 5
Associated Press 

BALTIMORE -Larry Par­Mookie Wilson hit a three-run 
rish hit his fourth home run in homer in the eighth inning fol­
five games and Mike Smithson lowing Lee Mazzilli's tie­
earned his first victory since breaking sacrifice fly and the 
July 23 as the Boston Red Sox New York Mets beat the Pit­
defeated the Baltimore Orioles tsburgh Pirates 7-5 Monday, 
4-1 Monday night and took over stretching their National 
first place in the American League East lead to a season­
League East. high 10 games. 
The victory marked the first David Cone, 15-3, pitched 
time since June 21 that the Red seven innings for his sixth vic­
Sox won back-to-back games tory in seven decisions and 
on the road. Boston, now 31-38 Darryl Strawberry hit a solo 
away from Fenway Park this homer run as Mets won for the 
year, defeated California 6-5 ninth time in 11 games. 
Sunday in Anaheim. 
Darrell Evans and the Detroit Tigers have fallen on hard times lately In the American League East. 
Astros 3, Reds 0 
The Boston Red Sox took sole possession of first

Blue Jays 5, Tigers 4 
Bob Forsch allowed five hits • Ernie Whitt homered leading 
in eight innings and hit a three-TIgers 

battling late-season slump 
off the lOth inning to give the run double in his debut with 
Toronto Blue Jays a 5-4 victory Houston as the Astros defeated 
over Detroit Monday night and Cincinnati 3-0 Monday night, 
Tigers loss Saturday night to a stiff shoulder. 
knocked the Tigers out of first snapping the Reds' five-game Associated Press 
the Milwaukee Brewers. He's General Manager Bill Lajoie 
place in the American League winning streak. 
DETROIT -The cracks in the out 10 days to two weeks. finally landed some help in an
East. The 38-year-old Forsch, 10-4, 
Detroit Tigers' already thin ar­The Tigers as a team are hit­nth-hour trade last week with 
The fifth-place Blue Jays was acquired from St. Louis on 
mor began to show in August. ting .255, third to last in the 14-Baltimore that brought Fred
have won five straight and are Aug. 31 for utilityman Denny 
Now those cracks have become team American League. Lynn, 18 home runs, 38 RBI, to 
6% games in back of the Red Walling. Forsch struck out five 
gaps that even a managerial "I still think we've got a good Detroit. But Lynn hits from the 
Sox. Todd Stottlemyre, 4-8, and walked one. 
magician like Sparky Ander­team on the field, but nobody's left side and what the Tigers
pitched three innings of perfect 
son may be unable to repair. hitting, and the pitchers are lost when free agent Kirk Gib­
relief for the victory and Duane 
Dodgers 3, Braves 0 The Tigers, who clung to the just kind of suffocating. They son when to the Los Angeles
Ward got his 12th save. 

American League East lead know if they fall behind, it's Dodgers was right-handed 
Orel Hershiser pitched a while losing 11 of their last 13 going to be a long game," third power. 
Twins 2, Mariners 0 four-hitter and won his 19th games, finally were caught baseman Tom Brookens said. The deal lost some of its game as the Los Angeles Sunday by the Boston Red Sox. The pitching staff, which was luster because the chartered Frank Viola pitched five-hit Dodgers beat the Atlanta The two entered play Monday most responsible for getting jet bringing Lynn from the ball for 8 2-3 innings and John Braves 3-0 Monday night to tied for the division lead. the Tigers to first place and West Coast where the Orioles Moses' RBI single broke a snap a three-game losing "We just have too many in­keeping them there, has fallen were playing, radioed Chicago, scoreless tie in the eighth in­streak. juries right now," Anderson on hard times. where the Tigers last had ning Monday as the Minnesota Hershiser, 19-8, struck out said. "I'd like to go with a set Second-year starter Jeff Rob­played, 10 minutes after the Twins beat the Seattle eight and walked one en route lineup the rest of the way, but inson, 13-6 with a 2.98 ERA midnight Sept. 1 trading dead­Mariners 2-0. to his fourth shutout and fourth I can't. But there's no use hasn't started since being both­line. That made Lynn ineligible 
straight complete game. crying about it. I'm sure ered by two inflamed fingers for the playoffs. Yankees 7, Indians 2 they're ain't gonna worry on his pitching hand; Frank "It certainly would be nice to Cubs 14-3, Phillies 3-4 about it in New York or Bos­Tanana, 14-9 with a 4.25 ERA; be a part of that," Lynn said. Don Mattingly singled home ton." and Eric King, 3-1, 3.65 ERA "But right now, the important · the go-ahead run and Ken Ricky Jordan's sixth hit of the Second baseman Lou since being called up from thing is getting there, not who 
Phelps hit a three-run homer a Whitak_er was the latest to go each missed a turn with plays in it."
day, two-run homer in the 

as the New York Yankees seventh inning, gave the down literally. Whitaker tore scored six times in the eighth Philadelphia Phillies a 4-3 vic­cartilege in his right knee while inning Monday and rallied past tory over the Chicago Cubs and dancing and doing the splits at the Cleveland Indians 7-2. a doubleheader split Monday. an anniversary party he atten­
ded with his wife after the 

SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
•Softmate Daily or 
Extended Wear 
Contact Lenses 
Dally Wear: +7.00 to -12.00 


ExtCnded Wear: plano to -6.00 
•Tinted 

Contact Lenses 
Dally or 

Extended Wear 


Softmate B or 2 different colors
Bausch & Lomb 

Eye exam required at time of purchase. No other discounts, previous
oiders or sale items apply. Limited time offer. 
"Our eyewear prices are 
the lowest tn Indiana, and 1111 E Ireland Road 
~~~?~~~~rs a in the Broadmoor Plaza 
promfse from the doctor." 291-4000
lt>.C\IOM. 
\J\Sif>. is apa!1. o 

pj;;;d--88 ~.ill 
Hours: Mon 10-6, Tues, Fri & Sat 9-6, Thurs 9-8 Appointments available but not required. Offices throughout Indiana 


Tuesday, September 6, 1988 
CAMPUS 
7:00 
p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "En­gineering Placement Night," for Engineering seniors in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

7:00 
p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "The Big Parade," directed by King Vidor, Annenberg Auditorium. 


9:15p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "A Fool There Was," directed by Frank Powell, Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Spareribs Burrito Bar Spinach Quiche Steak Fries 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Shrimp Vegetable Oriental Mushroom Omelette Deli Bar 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 


ACROSS 
1 Boone and 
Sajak 5 Kind of dunk 9 Damage a bolt 
14 Exam type 
15 Prince Charles's game 
16 Fuming 17 Pater, in Paris 18 Overhaul 19 Unvoiced 20 Finney film 
role: 1982 23 "Cheers" 
choice 24 Suitable 25 Gypsy 
language 29 "Desire Under 
the-" 
31 Preserve 34 Construct 35 "Three men in 
36"And-bed" 37 Yule figure 40 Raisond'­41 Berserk 42 Postpone 
action on 43Music's­Speedwagon 44 Bills featuring G.W. 
45 Comic Lloyd 46 Rainbow 47 Family 
member 48 Stacy Keach TV role 55 Chili spice 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

56 Actress 
Winningham 570n 59 "Love-the 
Ruins" 60 Cold desserts 61 Civil-rights 
org. 62 Scow 63Assay 64 Portent 
DOWN 
1 Mom's mate 
2 Cezanne's "Boy in­Vest" 
3 O'Hara home 4 Rosebud, for 
one 5 With agility 6 "Camelot" 
composer 
7 Actor in "The Four Seasons" 
8 Secure a ship 
9 Exercises 10 Pamphlet 11 Auto lift 12 Medical suffix 13 Darling 21 Italian poet 22 Disney classic 

321nanyway 44 A suburb of 49 Love, in Juarez
25 Send (to) Newark 50 Give off 26 Emulate 33 Did some 51 Tear-gasDemosthenes prying 45 Genuine relative27 Subway in 46 Rich Little's 

35 High point 

Milano forte 52 Tex. city 
36 Leading role 

28 Long 53 Smidgen 29 Mores 38 Ponderosa, e.g. 47 Horses' male 54 Days of­30 Wait in hiding 39 Squeaky-parents 55 Truck area 31 Jazzgroup voiced Arnold 48 Wild cat 58 Enclosure 
• 
, 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



Headhunter hutwarming 

Sports 

Tuesday, September 6, 1988
page 16 

Irish offensive line showing progress 
dy MARTY STRASEN Holtz' tone took another turn. Sports Editor "Maybe not kamikazee pilots,'' Holtz remarked when
Lou Holtz is still quipping reminded of his earlier com­one-liners about his offensive parison. "Evel Knievel wouldline, but his tone is changing. 
be a better word for it. EveryAnd that's a good sign. 
play is a death-defying stunt." 
It means the Irish offensive This time Holtz was laugh­line is making some progress. 
ing.

"Up front, we're just not very And while the line is not quite good," Holtz said more than a in hysterics over the thought ofweek ago, after the team's Michigan's big defense, theresecond fall scrimmage. "It is cause for optimism on thetakes a great deal of courage Irish front. 
to line up in our backfield, be­"We've come a long way on cause you know you're going to the offensive line," Holtz added get stuck by four people." 
Monday, after the KnievelT¥t was the serious, con­comparison and in a morecerned tone. 
serious tone. "That's a tributeThen Holtz livened up last to our players and coaches.''
week's press conference with Junior guard Tim Grunhardanother quip about the woes of (6-3, 279 pounds) is the most ex­his inexperienced offensive perienced lineman, havingfront, which lost all five regular started four games last yearstarters from last year. 
when the Irish had some injury "Our tailbacks need the problems. The starting rightsame traits as , kamikazee guard is sophomore Winstonpilots, because they know Sandri (6-4, 253), who did notthey're going to get blown up," play a down last year. 
said Holtz with a trace of a Senior tri-captain Andy Hecksmile, adding that the line was (6-7, 258) starts at one tackle,progressing but was not nearly after moving from the No. 1
where it needed to be at that point. 
see LINE, page 12Notre Dame's offensive line has made great left prepare opener

to for After Monday's practice,
strides In the past week after poor showings In against Michigan. early fall practice. The Irish have only a few days 
Morris not concerned about personal goals 
By FRANK PASTOR forward emphasized." There's Sports Writer got to be someone giving me Randy Morris refused to the ball and someone else put­
dwell on the fact that he was ting it in the net." merely one assist shy of the Morris's 31 assists eclipse the Notre Dame men's soccer mark of 30, previously held by 
career assist record prior to Sami Kahale, who played from Sunday's game with Lafayette. 1978-1981. Instead, he went out and Also, the three points Morris played the same way he has accumulated over the weekend 
played every game throughout move him past Mike Mai (1978­his prolific four-year career -80) and into 13th place on the tough and spirited. all-time scoring list with a total 
When the final whistle 
of 59. 

sounded SunQ.ay, Morris had The Met Life Classic af­tallied two assists on the after­forded Notre Dame the oppor­noon as Notre Dame edged host tunity to face top-level compe­Lafayette 3-2 to win the tition early in the season, a 
Metropolitan Life Soccer Clas­luxury which Coach Dennis sic in Lafayette, Pa. Grace feels the Irish took full 
The Irish (3-0) rallied from a advantage of. 2-0 halftime deficit behind "We always look at things in 
goals by Steve LaVigne, Rolfe terms of the future, said
" Behrje, and Joe Sternberg to Grace. "We do things that will claim the championship. make us win a month from now 
Saturday, Bruce "Tiger" or two months from now." 
McCourt scored two goals and I'm excited about being 3-0 Tom Connaghan added a third The Irish soccer team won the Metropolitan life
because we've played three 

as the Irish defeated Maine 3-1 truly outstanding teams, " Soccer Classic last weekend with a 3-2 victory to advance to the championship Grace continued. "But I don't game. Morris was credited judge things in terms of wins •with an assist on McCourt's and losses. If we play well and 
ND takes seventh 1n o_pener
first goal, bringing him to lose, that's fine. All I ask is that within one of the record. the kids play to their poten­
"(The record) doesn't mean tial." that much at this point in the Notre Dame travels to In­By BARBARA MORAN Roberta Bryar paced the day tournament. I've not lost 
season," said Morris. "All I'm diana Friday where the Sports Writer Irish with rounds of 83 and 87. confidence in their ability to thinking about is getting the Chris Lazar carded an 85 and play very good golf. I know that
Hoosiers are primed to avenge

team into the playoffs since this last season's overtime loss. The Notre Dame women's 90, Kerry Wagner a 92 and 87, they will be more competitive 
will be my last shot at it." golf team opened its first Liz Poden two 90s and Heidi as they gain more experience." 
Grace asserts that his team has season at the varsity level with Hanson an 88 and 95. Steph Ristau of Purdue won

Undefeated and undaunted, no intentions of backing down 
Notre Dame is on its way to a from this latest challenge. a seventh-place finish in the 18-the individual title with rounds Top 20 ranking and a possible "That game is going to have team Irish Invitational Tourn­Although his team did not of 76 and 81. NCAA tournament bid. If they a special meaning for both ament last weekend. finish as strongly as he had 
are to keep this dream alive, teams, " said Grace. "Indiana hoped, Notre Dame coach Tom The women's golf team was the Irish must continue to play is like a yardstick that The event featured several Hanlon remained optimistic. one of three club squads as a team, which means that everybody compares them­strong varsity teams, including "We competed against some promoted to the varsity status passing is an essential part of selves to. They are going to be champion Western Kentucky tough varsity teams who have last year. The women's soccer their attack. shooting for us; we won't be at 654 strokes and second place been playing on the varsity team has already started its Just ask Morris. shooting for them. We're shoot­Purdue at 659. Rounding out the level for some time now," the varsity campaign, while the 
"You've got to realize that ing for the stars, but then we've top four were Illinois State with first-year coach said. "I know women's softball squad will en­it's not just me (responsible for always reached way beyond 664 and Michigan with a 666 the girls are more capable than ter the varsity level later this the assist record), " the senior our grasp." total. what they showed in this two-year. 




