
Football Fall
/ACCENT: Dorm of the Week 
Considerable cloudiness and very cool Tuesday with a 30 percent chance of showers. 
High 45 to 50.
IVIEWPOINT: Aid to Bangladesh 

VOL. XXII, NO. 31 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1988 
Hiler, Ward to debate at ND 
By REGIS COCCIA 
MARK MCLAUGHLIN Senior Staff Reporters 
Notre Dame will host a debate Oct. 27 between Indiana 3rd Congressional District can­didates Rep. John Hiler and Tom Ward, Student Body Vice President Mike Paese said Monday. 
A panel of five or six students and a faculty moderator will question each candidate during the debate, said John Hamill, student political concerns com­misioner. Panelists have not been chosen yet, Paese said. 
"We want to focus issues on students: financial aid, grants, and also some national issues," said Mike Keegan, student ex­ecutive coordinator of political, cultural, and social concerns. 
The one-hour debate will be held in either the Monogram Room or the Concourse of the JACC, said Paese. About 100 in­ivtations are being sent to fac­ulty, administration officials and student leaders, he added. 
General seating would prob­ably be on a "first come, first served" basis but had not been finalized as yet, Paese said. Student Body President Tom Doyle said about 400 seats would be open to students. 
The debate at Notre Dame will be the third of four debates between the Republican Hiler and Democrat Ward, a Notre Dame graduate, said Hamill. A televised debate between the candidates is scheduled for Oct. 17, but the Notre Dame debate will not be televised. 
Hiler Campaign Manager 
Chris Nicholas and Ward Cam­
paign Manager Mike Marshall 
met Monday with Paese, 
Keegan and Hamill to discuss 
the debate. 
"I would say they were very easy to work with," said Keegan. "I was really im­pressed." 
Student government plans to provide information on each candidate to voting students from now until the election. 
"We're going to provide the forum and we're going to pro­vide the information," he added. "We just want to make sure people ... are interested in learning about the candi­dates before they vote." 
"We really wanted this to be something generated by the students," said Hamill. "We wanted it to be a student­oriented program, run by stu­dents, set up by students." 
Paese said several student organizations are co­sponsoring the debate. 
The debate will consist of two-minute opening state­ments by each candidate. In a format similar to the recent Presidential debates, each can­didate will have two minutes to answer questions from the panel and one minute for a rebuttal. Two-minute closing statements will also be alloted. 
The debate was brought to Notre Dame largely because of to the recent voter registration drive, run by Keegan and Hamill, which registered over 2,200 voters at Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's. "That was the impetus that brought the can­didates here," said Hamill. 


Two injured students hitchhike to class on one of the fering aid to the wounded and causing havoc among many golf carts currently zipping around campus of-the pedestrians. 
Shuttle touches down safely 
Associated Press 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif.-The shuttle Dis­covery returned to a star­spangled welcome from more than 400,000 people Monday after a post-Challenger shakedown mission that NASA called "an absolutely stunning success." 
"Discovery, welcome back," Mission Control told com­mander Frederick Hauck as he guided the ship to a picture­perfect landing after a four­day, 1.6-million mile mission. 
"A great ending  to  the  new  
beginning''  of  the  manned  
space program.  

The national anthem was playing as the white ship leveled out and rolled to a stop on the center line painted on the hard-packed sand of this desert air base. It was precisely on time, at 9:37a.m. PDT. 
The crowd cheered and waved American flags for the successful completion of a mis­sion that ended a 32-month per­iod in which no manned Amer­ican ship went into space. 
"This is a banner day for all of us," said NASA administra­tor James Fletcher. "An ab­solutely stunning success," said Shuttle Chief Richard Tru­ly. 
But Truly balked at a ques­tion that implied that with the new success, the trauma of the Challenger explosion had been overcome. 
"Even when we've flown a few flights, we are not going to forget the Challenger acci­dent," he said. "For the people who work in the program, that's going to be on their 
see SHUTTLE, page 6 

Hesburgh speaks on former presidents 
By JULIE FLANAGAN News Staff 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh spoke about the role of U.S. presidential leadership in changing the nation last eve­ning in St. Edward's Hall's Forum. 
"If you want to understand the history of the United States, a good place to begin is with the presidency," said Res­burgh. 
Hesburgh shared how he has personally known and worked with presidents beginning with President Eisenhower. At that time, Hesburgh said, "U.S. had apartheid as bad as, if not worse, than South Mrica today." In 1957, Hesburgh was working toward changing this as a member of the Civil Rights Commission. Hesburgh said the findings and suggestions of the commission, "changed the face of America." 
Hesburgh continued close contact with the adminstration of Kennedy. He labeled Ken­nedy "everyone's hero ... but very young, very inexperi­enced." Hesburgh continued, "because of the political situa­tion he was not what I would call a strong leader for human rights." According to Res­burgh, "a horrible recital of in­dignities to blacks continued." 
The major turning point to this situation was the Universal Civil Rights Act of 1964, said Hesburgh. "That bill in one night revolutionized the face of America in regard to civil rights." Before the bill, there were only six elected black of­ficials, now there are more than 6000 said Hesburgh. Res­burgh was an instrumental force in suggesting the content 
see HESBURGH, page 6 
... 

Donahue attends party in Zahm By REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporter ended by jokingly saying, really excited to hear what 'You're all going to hell,' " he had to say. People got out Students in Zahm Hall got said sophomore Richard cameras and took pictures," an unexpected visit Friday McBrien. he said. night from one of the dorm's "He said he came for the Donahue last visited the most famous former resi­game and for his lecture in dorm in 1982 with his wife, dents -­talk show host Phil the JACC. It definitely was Marlo Thomas, to show her Donahue. Phil Donahue," McBrien his old room, said Zahm rec­Donahue, who lived in 115 said. "I messed up his hair." tor Father Thomas King. Zahm as a freshman in 1953, "He said he was walking The talk show host will co­returned to visit his room by outside and heard the host a live televised show and dropped in at a party on noise coming from our from the Joyce Athletic and the third floor at about 11 room," said McBrien. Convocation Center this p.m., said sophomore Dave "<Donahue) said he heard Thursday at 8 p.m. with So­Latherow. something was going on viet commentator Vladimir "He came in and the next upstairs, so he came up," Pozner. thing I knew he was standing Latherow said. "It was kind King said Donahue on the couch by the window of funny just. to have him in "seemed to have gotten a and saying something about the room. It was just a big kick out of saying hello to being here," said Latherow, surprise." the kids and shaking hands a surprised resident who About 40 people crowded with a few of the kids." was in Room 321 when into the room to see "It was a spur of the mo­Donahue entered. Donahue, Latherow said. ment thing on his part. I "We gave him a beer and "We had cleared everything don't think it was anything he got up on the couch and out for the party. He was planned/' said King. "It was made a speech. He said we only here about five just an occurrence in the shouldn't be drinking and minutes. Everyone was course of a Friday evening.''  

r----1---~--­
Tuesday, October 4, 1988

page 2 The Observer 
IN BRIEF 

Career and Placement Services is sponsoring its annual Arts and Letters Career Fair tomorrow from noon to 4 p.m. in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education. Representatives from 30 careers will be in at­tendance to answer students' questions and to provide career literature. Seniors, juniors, and sophomores of all majors are invited and encouraged to attend. · 
-The Observer 

Indiana death row inmate D. H. Fleenor's appeal was rejected Monday by the Supreme Court. The justices let stand rulings that D.H. Fleenor was properly sentenced in the shootings of his mother-in-law and her husband. His appeal did not challenge the murder convictions. Fleenor shot Nyla and Bill Harlow at their Madison, Ind., home on Dec. 12, 1982. Prosecutors said he blamed the Harlows for breaking up his marriage to Sandy Sedam Fleenor. Fleenor committed the murders in the presence of his estranged wife and three children, his wife's son and Har­low's two grandchildren. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 

Psychology Club will sponsor the first Dinner Hour Talk in the Blue Room of the North Dining Hall (off A-Line with the fireplace) at 5 p.m. today. Professor George Howard will give a presentation on "The Psychology of Wisdom." All those interested are welcome. -The Observer 
St. Francis of Assisi's feast day will be celebrated 
at Sacred Heart Church today at 5: 15 p.m. Father Bill 
Dohar will preside. -The Observer 
Entrepreneurial Club hosts Dr. Jim Gregar of the Small Business Development Center of South Bend who will speak on "Starting a New Business, Avoiding the Pit­falls," at 6 p.m. today in 120 Cushing Hall of Engineering. An informal mixer will follow at Barnaby's. -The Observer 
Post Graduate Opportunities Night will take place at the Center for Social Concerns today from 7 to 10 p.m. Opportunities for volunteer work may be explored by all those interested. -The Observer 
Post Graduate Service opportunities will be the theme of the 11 p.m. Mass today in Sorin Chapel. Father Edward Malloy will be the homilist. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Cropwalk, a 10 K walk to benefit hunger coalitions and the South Bend Food Bank, will have signups this week in each dorm. -The Observer 
Sorin College Centennial Display in the first floor Centennial Room is now open for viewing by the University community. A lifesize picture of Knute Rockne and other material is presented to emphasize the rich history and traditions of this 100-year-old residence hall. The celebra­tion will culminate with a Sorin Alumni Weekend on No­vember 4-6. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor . . . . . . . . . Kathy Huston Design Assistant . . . ....... Karen Newlove Layout Staff......... ........ Kathy Desmond Typesetters ................... Mark Ridgeway ............................................. Mike Kolar Newa Editor ....................... Sara Marley Copy Editor ................. Cindy Broderick Sparta Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey Viewpoint Copy Editor ... J. Scharfenberg 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor ...... Syl Flood Viewpoint Layout . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. Moira Fox Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike Restle Accent Designer.......... Annette Rowland Ads Designer .................... Jeff Stelmach ............................................... Chris Nee ............................................. Val Poletto ............................................ Molly Killen 

TM Olllenet" (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throush Friday except durins exam and vacation periods. TM Olllervet" is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 Pel' year (S2S Pel' semester) by writins TM Olllervet", P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
TM OWinet" is a member of TM Allodakd Praa. All reproduction rishts are reserved. 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Officials wrongly attacked for views on abortion 
Of late we residents of the Notre Dame com­munity have been quite inhospitable on the Viewpoint page. 
Dr. Theodore Cooper, the Chief Executive Of­ficer of the Upjohn Corporation, visited to deliver a talk on proper public policy options in response to the AIDS quandary and was lam­basted for his company's involvement with prostaglandins, drugs used, among other things, to induce miscarriage. Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens visited to dedicate the new courtroom at the Notre Dame Law School and was abused for his pro-choice posi­tion in the landmark case Roe vs. Wade of 1973. 
The issue at hand is not the abortion question. I am an adamant anti-abortionist and would much enjoy convincing Dr. Cooper and Justice Stevens that their ways are erroneous. The issue is the myopic vision with which debate has been approached. 
To object to the visits of these two gentlemen is to focus one's deliberative energy wrongly on one singular issue and then draw one's con­clusions solely from this one issue. I ask that a bit more prudence be applied by those who make such objections. 
Consider for a moment Dr. Cooper and Justice Stevens. I do not know the specifics of either gentleman's character and accomplishments. However, each stands today in a position of considerable importance, and to reach such positions, I think it fair to say both must be relatively intelligent and reasonable. (Indeed, I pray thi:; is so of Justice Stevens). I think it highly unlikely either has whimsically developed his views on abortion. Each has, as have all responsible individuals, carefully weighed the many complex aspects of this agonizing issue and developed a coherent stance. 
The crux of the problem is to recognize that, important as it is, the abortion issue is but one of many. The nuclear arms race, capital punish­ment, the strangling Third World debt, apar­theid in South Africa are equally perplexing problems which also divide rational people. Why, I ask, were Dr. Cooper and Justice Stevens not grilled on their views on these issues as well? Surely they have developed positions on these just as they have done with abortion. One cannot argue that abortion is in some way more "moral" a problem; all these issues are equally weighty and merit similar consideration. In the 
Matt l.
Slaughter 
Viewpoint Editor 


? 
name of consistency, if we're going to question their views on abortion we must question them on much more than that. Draw up question­naires for any prospective guest speaker, sub­mit them to lie detector tests, bring out the leeches --and remember, if she weighs more than a duck she's a witch. 
Enough sarcasm. This extreme is obviously unwarranted --but so is the other which has been so endemic of late. Moderation must be the rule. Individuals should not be judged on every important issue: such an approach is un­doable because no two people agree on what constitutes "important", undesirable because difference of opinion is a necessary and healthy gadfly. Nor should individuals be judged on one single issue: such an approach is undesirable because one stance does not an individual make. 
Thus I hope in the future we will greet our guest speakers on campus with a more accom­modating mindframe. Judge them, but not too hastily. 

Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer )Mt advertising. )Mt 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
This week"s activity: 1}9£1111 I}Y~~!f 
Movie: ~o~ rn!A\Wlli1f@ I& ~Yl Tues. Wed 9& 1 1 Thurs. 7&9 S1 (spoasond .,, SIIC S•aior Class) Carroll Aud 
Picnic: SMC Ltbrarv Green. Brats and root beer. 4:30-6:1 5 Rames too ND Ret coex·s I 0/4-10/5 
SMC Gardens: SMC FIELD look for the tents. S1 admission. DJ. free pop & munchies. 2/21 ID"s required. 9pm-I am 
C'IJ.D 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
ta....l .1. .l. I 
SAIRT IIARY"S COLLEGE

( I 
Tuesday, October 4, 1988 The Observer 
page 3 

Student Senate debates fees 
By JEFF SWANSON and Vladimir Pozner is to take media attention because it is so News Staff place this Thursday in the unusual for university students JACC and that tickets are on to sponsor a congressional 
Tennis court fees and upcom­sale at Gate 10 of the JACC. debate. ing events were discussed at Representatives of districts Michelle LaRose of the Hall the Student Senate meeting on one and two had nothing new President's Council reported Monday night. to report while Rask said that that the Weekend Wheels pro­
District 4 Senator Tom Rask he will talk to Notre Dame Se­gram will begin Oct. 29. The questioned the University curity about problems in the program provides transporta­policy of charging students a teacher parking lot. He is also tion for students from various one dollar fee to use the Eck awaiting the delivery of a locations in the South Bend Pavillion tennis courts. stamp machine which will be area on weekend nights. 
One of the explanations of­placed in the North Dining fered was that the fee is used Hall. Executive Coordinator of to decrease usage of the courts Special Projects Melissa Smith since there are only six courts. Student Body Vice President said that the Notre Dame Rask said that it was unfair Mike Paese said that plans for United Way Drive has begun.that students must pay to use the Indiana 3rd district con­She said that no definite finan­the courts. gressional debate to be held in cial goals have been set at this 
Brian Riley, Student Union the Joyce ACC on Oct. 27 were point, but that the drive is Board Manager, reminded finalized yesterday afternoon. looking for approximately Senate members that the He said that the Student Senate three dollars from each stu­debate between Phil Donahue is expecting the debate to draw dent. 



.••_.L 
~ 
... 

Six-pack of blood to go The Observer/Jennifer O'Donald 
Kathy O'Connor, Saint Mary's Student Nurse Association President, as­
sists in the collection of blood at the SMC Blood Drive held yesterday. The liquid will surely be in short supply come Oct. 31. 
Student Activities Board sponsors Fall Festival 
By JOANNA GRILLO forms of identification. "We News Staff don't want anyone's feelings to be hurt, but it is something for 
The Student Activities underclassmen to look forward Board's Fall Fest was the main to," added Wagner. As there is focus of Monday evening's only room for 500 people, those Saint Mary's Programming planning to attend the gardens Board meeting. should come early. 
Student Activities Board, Other activities planned in­who is sponsoring this week's clude Thursday's picnic featur­events, wishes to stress that in ing root beer and brats. Notre addition to the famous Dame students who wish to at­"Beverage Gardens," Fall tend can pick up coex's in the Fest includes many other ac­dining halls today and W ednes­tivities open to all students. day. 
"Fall Fest is not revolving Also coming soon to Saint around alcohol," said Julie Mary's campus is Founder's Wagner, SAB commisioner. "I Day, October 11. Student gov­
Where the need is . . . there we will be. 

As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 

HOLY CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
----------~-~------~-­
PREGNANT 
MOTHERS: 
PLWE DOWJSMOKE! 
I~
fsociETY~ 


AT SAINT MARY•s SNACK BAR 
REE DELIVERY on Saint Mary•s Campus 

PIZZA WEEK 
October 2nd -7th 
October 2nd -Two dollars ott any order between 7 and 10 pm. 
October 3rd -One FREE topping. 
October 4th -Two liters FREE Coke with any pizza purchase 
October 5th -Accepting any area pizza coupon 
October 6th -Get a coupon for a FREE pizza when you order one between 7 and 1 0 pm. October 7th -Order a pizza and get a 2nd for HALF price.
' 

Pizza avaUable nightly from 6 -11 pm. 


284·5537 
don't want anyone to take ad­vantage of this because we want it to be available to the students next year," said Wag­ner in response to underclas­smen's protests that some ac­tivities are open to those of legal drinking age. 
The Beverage Gardens take place on Thursday, but are only open to those students who are 21 years of age and have two ernment and SAB will be spon­soring a Cup and Cider Giveaway which will take place outside Haggar College Center. At this time student government will also be pass­ing out a short survey, giving the students a chance to ex­press their opinions. 
The Programming Board also announced this week's movie, "She's Having a Baby." 
~ 1\ssoGt·
f ~. 
--0
<C ::;, 
Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series 
presents 
MICHAEL E. fLYNN Attorney-at-Law 
with the finn of PAUL, HASTINGS, jANOFSKY, WALKER, & AsSOCIATES 
in Los Angeles, CA 1982 BBA in Accountancy from Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 4, 1988 
7:30 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
co-sponsored by the Student Alumni Relations Group and the Pre-law Society 

t 
f 


"What distinguishes
J.P. Morgan startswith the investment we make inyou:" 
As a leader in global finance, J.P. Morgan requires ongoing design and implementation of advanced information and communications systems. Morgan has outstanding opportunities -backed by training-for both technical and nontechni­cal majors seeking to build a career as well as develop systems. So whatever your academic spe­cialty, ifyou have good analytical skills and the desire to apply them in a financial environment, plan to attend this important career session or contact l(athleen Gioffre, 
For Notre Dame students 
J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated, 
with career interests in Applications Programming 
23 Wall Street, Nl: NY 10015. 
Network Analysis Project Management Data Center Operations 
Information Presentation Tuesday, October 4 7:00-9:00 PM Notre Dame Room Second Floor Lafortune Student Center 


JPMorgan 
Confirm the time and location with your placement office 

--~; 
Tuesday, October 4, 1988 

The Observer pageS 
Court to debate church and state 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Su­preme Court began a new term Monday and set the stage for an important church-state ruling in a Pittsburgh dispute over religious displays. 
The justices issued orders in some 1,000 cases as they returned to the bench after a three-month summer recess. They agreed to grant full review in 20 of them. 
Most significantly, the court said it will decide whether dis­plays of a Christmas nativity scene and a menorah, sym­bolizing the Jewish holiday of Chanukah, should be allowed at 
two government buildings in Pittsburgh. 

Although such disputes are not new to the court, the case offers Justice Anthony Ken­nedy his first opportunity to consider how high a wall the Constitution requires between 
government and religion. Many experts believe the court may be poised to make 

dramatic changes in the con-road workers. 
+ Hey, Marrone We've just been +
+ hangin' + : around waiting for : you + : toturn18! + 
t HAPPY t : BIRTHDAY, : + Man! + 
+ From The + : "Older" Gang : 
Because of high dining hall quality standards, already prepared leftovers may not be reused. This results in huge amounts of edible but unusable food. 
To combat this waste, Mack­ett, together with students Mi­chael Lieberth, Tom Kelly, and Katharyn Barron, contacted Bill Hickey, director of Univer­sity Food Services, and got the stitutional tests applied in cer­tain freedom-of-religion cases. 
The court Monday also agreed to consider, for the second time in two years, the authority of states to deny un­employment benefits to people who refuse to work on their Sabbath. 
Illinois officials refused to pay benefits to a man whose refusal to work was not based on the doctrine of any estab­lished religious body but on his personal Christian belief. 
Despite his 12 years as a federal appeals court judge before becoming a justice last February, Kennedy's views on the politically volatile issue of religious freedom largely are 
unknown. In a separate action, the jus­
tices said they will decide whe­ther a railroad routinely may require its employees to take drug tests. 
At issue is whether the im­position of such tests must be negotiated as part of the collec­tive bargaining process with the unions that represent rail­


T-shirts for sale The Obeerver I Jennifer O"DonD:I 
Three members of the Filipino Club display their "Club Philippine --ND, U. of Notre Dame, USA" is fundraising product for The Year of Cultural Diversity. printed on the front of the T -shirt. 
Foodshare prevents waste 
By CINDY PETRITES News Staff 
They said it couldn't be done, but last year second year Notre Dame law student Katharyn Barron started Foodshare, a group formed by Notre Dame students to prevent food waste in the dining halls. 
The project involves collect­ing prepared but unserved lef­tovers from the dining halls every night and distributing them to local charities in South Bend. 
"It's one way for students to partake in solving the hunger problem. We hear about starvation in Ethiopia all the time, but so much is here at our own back door," said Lisa Mackett, a Knott Hall sopho­more who joined Barron and 63 

SOPHOMORES! 
Last chance to purchase tickets to the Fall Formal to be held October 7th at the newly renovated Union Station featurning "The Groove" TICKETS on sale TODAY 
-SPM in the SOPHOMORE Class Office (2nd Floor LaFortune) 
other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in their ef­forts. 
Every night four students in the group pick up the boxed lef­tovers, pans, and foodwarmers and distribute enough food for 50 to 75 meals to local agencies. Currently Foodshare serves the Hope Rescue Mission and Ko-Op 65. 
Foodshare is also looking for­ward to serving the downtown Center for the Homeless which will soon be open, said Father Michael Heppen, Foodshare's faculty advisor. 
The project was the initiative of several individuals. Mackett remembers working in the dining hall her freshman year and being amazed at the 
amount of food going to waste every night. 
ball rolling. 

IP----------------~
OPENING SOON I I I
I OO®ffirnrn~~ I
I I
South Bend's Newest Restaurant 
I Now accepting applications for: cooks, 1 I busers, servers, etc. Benefits, paid I1 vacations, 0/otips I 
Part time 8-20 hours

II I
Full time 40 hours or more 
I ~
Apply from 1-7, Monday-Fridav 
I Very close to campus I I phone 277-7678 I I I
I I
S.R.23 
I ~ ~ ai I
I ::J 2046 S.R.23 -• 8. 

L----------------J 
Cooperation between stu­

dents and the University Food 
Services was "better than ex­
pected," according to Hickey. 
"The young people involved 

in Foodshare have been ex­
tremely sensitive in working 
with the demands and needs of 
Food Services," he said. "They 
have done a really fine job." 
Ever since their initial suc­

cessful run on March 22, 1988, 
the program has operated at 
full force, continuing even 
throughout the summer. 
"Even from the beginning it 
has been so easy," Mackett 
said. 
"The only problem is that sometimes the people are un­familiar with the kind of food we're bringing them. Some of them have never even heard of linguini," she said. 
Foodshare sees itself as con­tributing not just to the people who directly benefit from the food but also to the Notre Dame campus as a whole. 
"We are so proud that our students are getting involved in the mainstream, dispelling the 'distant' image of Notre Dame in South Bend, and working to solve hunger one person at a time," Mackett said. 
-~---------------------~--~~---~ ----~---------~ --­
Tuesday, October 4, 1988

pageS The Observer 
It appeared that the shuttle had passed its tests brilliantly
Security Beat Shuttle 
\ -continued from page 1 and Hauck commented he had 
Wednesday 
9:45 p.m. Several Knott Hall residents reported the thefts of their bicycles from the bike rack outside Knott Hall. 
Thursday 
11:08 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported the theft of an oak table from the Dillon Hall study lounge sometime between 
12:00 and 2:00 p.m. on 9/28. The loss is estimated at $100.00. 
11:50 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her unlocked bike from the front of the Notre Dame Post Office between II :40 and II :45 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $380.00. 
2:10 p.m. A resident of Pangborn Hall reported that his backpack had been stolen from the book rack in the South Dining Hall. The theft occurred sometime between I: 10 and I :30 p.m. His loss is estimated at $25.00. 
6:10p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported the theft of her locked bike from the bike rack outside Gate I of the JACC. Her loss is estimated at $100.00. 
10:25 p.m. A South Bend resident was cited by Security for traveling 55 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Edison Road. 
10:44 p.m. Security cited a South Bend 

The Crime of the Week is a break-in of a van parked in Green Field during the Michigan Football game between 8 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. The suspect(s) broke out the rear window of a van and took a blue 54 qt. Coleman ice chest containing beer and soft drinks, a Sony portable stereo unit, and a woman's gold Gucci wristwatch. The stereo has a burn mark on the handle and tabs on the back are broken off. 
The victim reported to Security that at 

Hesburgh
continued from page 1 
of the bill. Hesburgh said Pres­
ident Johnson was the driving 
force to take the commission's 
suggestions and push them 
through the legislature. Res­
burgh said Johnson had told 
him before the bill was started 
that blacks were freed from 
slavery, but had "little liberty, 
little human dignity." 
Hesburgh said the Nixon ad­
ministration was "dragging its 
feet on civil rights." Hesburgh 
said the Nixon administration 
was troubled with the finding 
of the commission that of the 
40 departments of government, 
only one was rated above poor 
in respect to the civil rights 
issue. 
Hesburgh was called into as­

sisting with additional political 
issues during the subsequent 
administrations. Ford called 
on Hesburgh to offer his advice 
on how to deal with the problem 
~need someone with theronfxlenreofa ~ 
thededicationol ­amarathoner andthe 
rourage ofanexplorer. 
~need a Peace Corps \IOiun~eer. Call us a1 1-800-424-8580, Ext. 9l 

resident for traveling 46 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
Friday 
5:40 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident reported the theft of his season football tickets from his room sometime between 9//28 and 5:00 
p.m. on 9/30. His loss is estimated at $52.50. 
7:35 p.m. A resident of lllinois was cited by Security for traveling 53 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Edison Road. 
9:14 p.m. An lllinois resident was cited by Security for disregarding a red signal on Angela Blvd. 4:10p.m. Security responded to the report of a two car accident on Dorr Road. No injuries were reported, and damage is estimated at $250.00. 
Saturday 
5:46 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft of her football tickets from her room sometime between 9/24 and 10/1. Her loss is estimated at $52.50. 
7:05 p.m. A South Bend resident was arrested by Security for Driving Under the Influence in Blue Field. 
6:37 p.m. A resident of Massachusetts was arrested by Security for public intoxication on Ivy Road. 
Crime of the Week 
approximately 7:45 p.m. a man who claimed to be a student approached the victim's tailgater and asked for a can of beer, which he was given. Soon after, a second male approached and asked for beer. When the victim refused to give this man a beer, he and the other man cursed at the victim and walked away. The victim believes that these two men came back to the van and took the beer. Other coolers containing soft drinks and addi­tional valuable property were not taken. 
of the one-half to one million 
men who found themselves in 
legal trouble regarding the 
Vietnam War with such issues 
as burning draft cards. Res­
burgh suggested amnesty, a 
plan which Carter carried out. 
Carter also requested Res­burgh to assist with the one to three million refugees in Cam­bodia. Hesburgh responded by 
. being the driving force behind a council of religious individ­uals who raised funds. Accor­ding to Hesburgh, the drive, "saved a million people." 
Hesburgh stated it is his policy not to comment on the current president. He did say, "The next president is going into a financial mess." 
Most indivduals attending the forum expressed amaze­ment that Hesburgh worked so closely with many of our na­tion's leaders. David Brennan, senior, said, "I learned how great an influence he (Hesburgh) had on the country in general." 
5:30 p.m. A Wisconsin resident reported that his car had been damaged in a hit and run. Damage estimates are unknown at this time. 
Sunday 
2:01 a.m. A Michigan resident was arrested by Security for Driving Under the Influence after his car struck a fence post on Juniper Road. Damage is estimated at $200.00. 2:10p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported the theft of her license plates from her vehicle while it was parked in Green Field sometime between I 0/1 and I 0/2. Her loss is estimated at $50.00. 
4:26 p.m. A South Bend resident reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the steps of LaFortune sometime between 3:30 
p.m. and 4:20 p.m. His loss is estimated at $125.00. 
7:31 p.m. Security cited a Mishawaka resident for traveling 49 mph in a posted 25, mph zone on Juniper Road. 
Monday 
12:55 a.m. A resident of Pasquerilla East reported that her car had been vandalized while parked in the D-2 Lot sometime between 7:00 and II :45 p.m. Damage is estimated at $400.00. 
Crime Stoppers will pay a cash reward up to $300 for information identifying the people responsible for this crime. If you have ANY information about this crime or any other crime at Notre Dame, call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You don't have to give your name and you'll be eligible for a cash reward. 
Provided by Notre Dame Crime Stoppers 
minds for a long time." 
Truly, a former astronaut, said from cursory inspection the ship appeared to have suf-· fered little damage from the rigors of launching and return­ing through the atmosphere: a few tiles suffered thumb-sized nicks, he said. 
"We saw no problems I'm aware of in any system," said Arnold Aldrich, director of the shuttle program. 
never seen a ship so trouble­free. "Good systems, good per­formance," was the word from Mission Control. 
Hauck and pilot Covey guided the 97-ton, $1.5 billion spaceship to a perfect landing. They had fired their braking rockets an hour before touch­down to start the free-falling glide halfway around the world from 188 miles high. 
,................................................................ 
I .....~•s
I"-~-·--s:Bo\~~s i

w•" · 
16th Annual Program i 
•: 
i London 
: 
~May 24-June 23 ~Travel in Ireland, ~Scotland and France i Informational Meeting j Oct. 5 -7pm j Little Theater,i· Moreau Hall, SMC 
-· 
! Courses offered in 
I 
= 
Rome I ~ June 18-July 17 i Travel in France, i Germany, and i Switzerland ! 
Come visit with last years ~ students and teachers over ~ refreshme= pizza. ~ For more info, contact I
i 
i ART, BUEC, EDUCATION, Prof. Black 4460 : :HISTORY, ITALIAN, ! 
~ and JUSTICE or 272-3726 i
..............................................................­
AftEI7101 S7UDEI7S!! AftEI7101 S7UDEI7S!! 
NO,.RE DAME'S DEVELOPMEN,. PHONE CEN,.ER NOW HIRING (Located in Badin Hall) 
75 Student Positions Available $4.50 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 7:15-1 0:30; Some daytime hours 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House I Information Session / at the Development Phone Center October 5 from 7:00Jlm -8:00 pm PLEASE JOIN US 
For more information, call Carol McClory, 239-7938 

FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES 
A series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their futures. 
JAMES T. BURTCHAELL, C.S.C. "IS THERE LIFE BEYOND ARTS AND LETTERS? THE ADVANTAGES OF MAJORING IN A USELESS DISCIPLINE" 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1988 7:30P.M. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A reception will follow the lecture. 




--~ 
The Observer 

New faculty members named 
Special to The Observer O'Neill, Tantur program and aerospace and mechanical theology; Brian Pavlac, his­engineering; Ljubomir Grujic, 
New faculty members at the tory and Innsbruck program; electrical and computer engin­University of Notre Dame have Kathleen Pyne, art, art history eering; Qiu Huang, electrical been announced by Provost and design; Hilary Ann Rad-and computer engineering; Timothy O'Meara. ner, communication and Donald Mason, chemical 
In the College of Arts and theatre; Teresa Reed-engineering; Piero Meogrossi, Letters, new faculty include: Downing, philosophy and the architecture Rome program; Father Joseph Amar, modern program of liberal studies. James Mills, electrical and and classical languages; Fa­Also, Conrad Rudolph, art, computer engineering; Mi­ther John Baldovin, theology; art history and design; David chael Stanisic, aerospace and Dennis Berry, Arts and Letters Skidmore II, government and mechanical engineering; Flint London program; Henry international studies; Susan Thomas, aerospace and me­Borne, sociology; Darlene Steibe, psychology; Donald chanical engineering. Catello, music; Lawrence Cun­Stump, liberal studies; Robert College of Science: Philip Ar­
nigham, theology; Amitava Taft, theology; John Thorp, an­cuni, physics; Barry Baum­Dutt, economics; Sister Mary thropology; Monica Blackmun baugh, physics; Robert Beebe, Ewens, Cushwa Center and Visona, art, art history and biological sciences; Cynthia Arts and Letters core course; design; Sushil Wadhwani, Arts Bender, biological sciences; Isamu Fukuchi, modern and and Letters London program; Ikaros Bigi, physics; Robert classical languages; Phillip Michael Waldstein, liberal Cady, physics; Michael Gentile, communication and studies; Lynne Wozniak, gov­Clancy, mathematics; Edward theatre; John Gillingham, Arts ernment and international Cline, mathematics; Thomas and Letters London program; studies. Cummins, mathematics; Leda Mcintyre Hall, govern­College of Business Adminis­Kathleen DeLanghe, physics; ment and international tration: William Stephen Dee, Malgorzata Dobrowolska­studies; Father John Jenkins, marketing; Cristina Giannan­Furdyna, physics; Maria Arts and Letters London pro­tonio, management; H. David Lucia Fania, mathematics; gram. Hayes, management; An­Gabor Foldiak, chemistry; 
Also, Theresa Koernke, the­nemarie Keinath, accoun­Wei-yan Guan, physics; John ology; Joel Kraemer, College of tancy; Roger Mayer, manage­Halfman, earth sciences; Arts and Letters; David Leven­ment; John Murray, David Hyde, biological son, theology; Alasdair Macin­marketing; Janet O'Tousa, ac­sciences. tyre, philosophy; Antoni Mac­countancy; Gregory Trom­Also, Dennis Jacobs, zak, history; Theodore peter, accountancy. chemistry; Kathleen Macor, 
Pollee arrest protester 
AP Photo
Mandell, communication and College of Engineering: chemistry; James Robert Police arrest a woman in downtown Santiago Thursday after she andtheatre; Gloria-Jean Mas­Peter Bauer, electrical and Powell, biological sciences; others pasted signs protesting the torture of Chileans by police and theciarotte, English; Rohan computer engineering; Gary Otto Sankey, physics; Gud­military. Areferendum will take place Oct. 5 to decide if military strongmanMcWilliam, Arts and Letters Bernstein, electrical and com­laugur Thorbergsson, mathe­Augusto Pinochet will stay in office as president for eight more years.
London program; Judy puter engineering; Michael matics; Hanns-Peter Trautvet­Meister, music; Mark Meyer­Butler, aerospace and mechan­ter, physics; Thammaiah son, history; Sister Mary Aquin ical engineering; John Galla, Viswanatha, chemistry. 
Negligent mother gives newborn up 
Associated Press Baldwin, who is awaiting sentencing for administering lethal doses of mind-altering 
INDIANAPOLIS -An In­drugs to her son Joshua two dianapolis woman who pleaded years ago, gave birth to ari 8­guilty to neglect of a dependent pound, 5-ounce boy at 11: 16 in the death of a 4-year-old son a.m. Sunday at Wishard Hospi­gave up her day-old baby Mon­tal, where she is being day when she signed adoption detained. Both were reported papers, her attorney said. in good condition Monday. 
Melody Baldwin, 29, also was At 5:30 p.m. Monday, she close to agreeing to be signed the adoption papers and sterilized Tuesday morning, gave up her baby, Donahoe the latest she can undergo the said. The attorney said rights procedure without waiting an­to privacy prevented him from other six weeks, attorney Mi­saying where the child was chael Donahoe said. headed, who was present for 
"We're going to get that the signing or what the mot­ironed out tomorrow," her's mood was. Donahoe told The Associated "It was very good under the Press. "I think everyone wants circumstances," he said. to make sure they're doing the Marion Superior Court Judge right thing and not leaving Roy Jones has offered to give themselves open to criticism." Ms. Baldwin a reduced sen­
For medical reasons, the wo­tence if she agrees to be man can only be sterilized sterilized. within 48 hours of giving birth She faces a maximum 20­before waiting six weeks for year sentence after pleading 
guilty to the neglect charge. ... Donahoe said. The former waitress had been 
Donahoe filed a motionpresent Friday to release his client on bond, pending sentencing. Jones was awaiting a psychi­atric evaluation from Wishard

JVC, HCA, Peace Corps, Channel, more... 
personnel on Ms. Baldwin before ruling on the motion. 




-------~------,-------­


P¥8 Viewpoint 

Tuesday, October 4, 1988 

Bangladesh flood victims cry for help 
1,000 people at Notre Dame College, Dhaka, but also the continual boat trips to isolated villages to provide stranded people with food, medicine, and water purification supplies. 
Any funds sent to the Center to aid Bangladeshi flood victims will be trans­ferred immediately to Dhaka and dis­tributed in their entirety to those who are most in need. If you are able, please send a generous contribution to: 
Holy Cross Mission Center 
Bangladesh Flood Relief 
Post Office Box 543 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
In the months to come, more than 1,400 families nationwide who have sup­ported the work of Holy Cross in Bangladesh for decades will help us to do what we can to alleviate the famine and disease sure to come in the wake of the floods. But your help is needed now. 
The sacrifice you make today can make a difference tomorrow in Dhaka or one of the needy villages, because the money will be placed at the poeple's disposal within days. Contributions are tax deductible and will be acknowl­edged. 
Father Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., is Counselor to the President and also serves as Associate Director ofthe Holy Cross Mission Center. 
The people of Bangladesh have suf­fered a lot during their seventeen years of independence. Unfortunately, most of what we know about the country and its people is as a result of the seemingly endless string of disasters that they ex­perience. 
Richard V. Warner 

guest column 
The Bangladesh of today is the result of a short but bloody war with Pakistan. In a period of nine months as many as three million people died, many of them slaughtered by troops sent to pu,t down a revolt in what was then East Pakis­tan. More deaths were avoided only when India finally intervened to end the war in 1971. The first few days of the newly independent nation were marked not only by a struggle to recover from the loss of many educated people ex­ecuted during the war, but also by the need to overcome the effects of a tidal wave which caused widespread death and destruction in 1970. 
Bangladesh is currently suffering some of the most severe flooding in its recent history. News reports from Bangladesh have indicated that more than two thirds of the country was un­der severe stress as a result. Once again, these hard working and long suf­fering people have come face to face 
Nine million tons of stored food have been destroyed by the effects of the water. The next rice crop will not be har­vested for nine months. 
with misery. While the total loss of life­-now estimated at over 1,500--and damage to crops, dwellings, and lives­tock may not be known for several more weeks, there is an immediate need for relief on a significant scale for what the Information Minister of Bangladesh has called "a situation which is beyond description or definition." 
Flood waters still cover most of the land, although the waters crested on Sept. 7. More than 40 percent of the capital city of Dhaka, populated by two million people, is still seriously af­fected. Fifty of the 64 districts of the country are still under water, and more than 12 million have been washed away. A recent article in The New York Times dramatically described the plight of people ''wading through water search­ing for shelter." Nine million tons of stored food have been destroyed by the effects of the water. The next rice crop will not be harvested for five months. 
Flooding during the monsoon season in Bangladesh is expected and is nec­essary for a good crop of rice. During a normal rainy season approximately 40 percent of the country, which is the size of the state of Wisconsin and has a population of 110 million people, is under water that gradually rises and assists the cultivation of the main staple. As a result of the present situa­tion, almost 70 percent of the country is flooded, and the waters have reached the highest levels recorded this cen­tury. 
While it will be essential in the months to come for the countries of the world to assist the Bangladeshi govern­ment in abating the long term results of the flood, our immediate individual response is important. 
For more than 130 years, priests, Brothers, and Sisters of the Congrega­tion of the Holy Cross have worked in Bangladesh. During that time more than a score of them have died at early ages from shipwreck, disease and vio­lence. The most recent death is that of Father William Evans, a Holy Cross priest killed during the war for inde­pendence and a man who is considered a martyr by Christians and Moslems alike. The Holy Cross Mission Center, located at Notre Dame, serves as a sup­port office for the work of these men and women, many of whom are now Bangladeshi Holy Cross religious. 
The Center has already sent a signif­icant contribution to assist the first ef­forts at relief. A recent letter from one of the Brothers describes not only the work of housing and feeding almost 

P.O. Box Q 
The Viewpoint department is looking for controversial subjects fc;n its special Tuesday debate spread. How do you feel about the upcoming presidential election? 
Doonesbury 

ISN'T IT 6R&AT, 51R~ A FR£5H
CAN YOU Bel./E#!j IT, I 
CAPTAIN, YOU OON'T

START.' A CHANCE TO 5HIP
51R? THE WINOS OF 
SEEM TOO 7HR!U.J3[)

OlJTAN[) SHAPE UP 7DGETHtR!
OtsTINY HAVE 7055E30 

WHO SAYS TH&RE ARE NO 
TO 588 TH/5 YOUNG
()5 TOGETHeR !J6AIN l 

5eaJNO AC75 IN AMe!<JCA ~ 
/WOMAN... 
51R.? HEUO?
\ 
I 

Crime Stoppers at Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 

Crime Stoppers International was formed in 1976 as "an imaginative and effective program which involves citizens in meaningful efforts to protect all members of society." Today, the University of Notre Dame has become the first to offer a Campus Crime Stop­pers Program. 
Notre Dame Crime Stoppers is an af­filiate of South Bend Crime Stoppers and therefore part of a national organi­zation to promote community involve­ment in solving crimes. This is accom­plished through a system which publicizes a "Crime of the Week" and a telephone hotline to encourage citizens to give information concerning specific crimes. The callers are as­signed code numbers to insure their anonymity and receive rewards if the tips lead to the arrest of a criminal. 
The Campus Crime of the Week can be seen courtesy of The Observer, to whom we shall be eternally grateful for their support--without the support of the media a program like ours would never succeed. Anyone wishing to report any information regarding that crime or any other can call the South Bend Crime Stoppers Hotline (288-STOP); they will be assigned a secret code num­ber and the information will be passed along to Notre Dame Security. 
Garry Trudeau 
Like other programs, ours is led by an Executive Board of Directors. The Board at Notre Dame includes: Ann­Marie Walker (president), Joe Lacher (vice-President), Robin Pedtke (secretary) , John Horning (treasurer) , Eric Emerson, Pat Cooke, Molly Jason, Victor Krebs (Graduate Student Union), Professor Dennis Moran, Bro­ther Bonaventure Scully, Jim Roemer (Director of Notre Dame Community Relations), and Phil Johnson (Assistant 
Director of Security). Anyone wishing to serve on the Board or as a member of a committee for publicity, fundrais­ing or education should contact one of the Board members. 
Campus crime has become an in­creasingly significant problem at col­leges and universities across the country. A recent issue of USA Today reported that there are an "estimated 500,000 thefts and as many as 20,000 vi­olent crimes--from homocide to rape assault--occur yearly on campuses." 
Programs like ours will hopefully begin througliout the country. In order for this to happen, however, we must first prove a worthy example. I urge each of you to become aware of this new campus organization. This is our chance to show the nation that Notre Dame is truly a place for traditions. To do so it will take a total community effort to successfully establish Notre Dame Crime Stoppers. 
Ann-Marie Walker President, N D Crime Stoppers Oct. 3, 1988 

5H&'SJUSTA FLASHBACK, 511<. 5Hf3.'U.. GO AWAY. 
\ 
MJ, SIR, IT'S !?&AUY ME! 
7WQ-f M/3.! OISCI<EETLY, OF COURSe. 
I 

Quote of the Day 
"If we didn't spend so much on weapons, every commu­nity in the United States could have a field house with a gym, swimming pool, hockey rink, and tennis courts." 
Andy Rooney 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tile University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chiet ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Contra/fer ................ : ......................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 




Accent 

Tuesday, October 4, 1988 
pape 9 

Sorin College: 100
Symposium on 
Years of Tradition 
JOHN J. BLASI residents still refer to their dorm as

the S-word 
assistant accent editor Sorin College. 
T 
he S-word. Everybody wants it. Some people have it. For some it comes naturally; others have to work at it. It's not unique to men or women, young or old. Everybody can have it. 
Tweeds, a catalogue featuring clothes with "casual American comfort combined with European satisfaction," defined the S-word well: style is "the image expressed by those comfortable with themselves." 
But how, exactly, is this comfortable-with-self image expressed? "For many," as the Tweeds catalogue says, "personal style is creatively reflected in the body's closest environment--the clothing they wear." 
MARY BERGER 
-
Back in the Highlife 
I 

My roommate and I were in Chicago this weekend and noticed that a lot of people strolling the streets of the Windy City have style. While sitting at an outdoor cafe in the early evening, we studied the passersby and tried to determine what it is about someone that makes them stylish. We now present our conclusions. 
First of all, there are a few styleless moves that we think should be 
avoided at all costs. Style presents itself from head to toe and the 
following just scream "incomplete style." 
For a woman dressed in a nice suit or dress, the stlye faux pas is the 
running or walking shoes and tennis socks she wears when out of the 
office. Understandably she may do a lot of walking, but a comfortable 
pair of flats are just as easy to find as athletic shoes, and they can just 
as easily slip into a bag or desk drawer. For a man who is dressed in a 
suit or nice slacks, the eyesore is the white tube socks he wears with 
his loafers. 

A few years ago it was stylish to be scruffy, but now the "Don 
Johnson look" is out. A natural man has style, but that means a 
well-scrubbed face and well-kept hair. The wet look with a five o'clock 
shadow just does not bring out the Jane in many women. 
The natural look is key for women too. Because style is a 
comfortable-with-self feeling, stylish women don't need lots of liner to 
catch someone's eye, nor do they need blotches of pink blush to have a 
natural glow. Grooming for the stylish is simply the enhancement of the 
beauty they naturally have. 

As for clothing, people with style don't wear outfits. They have 
wardrobes of mix-and-match clothes. They have many accessories 
which they use often and in uniquely personal ways. Women drape and 
tie scarves, they perk up an ensemble with panty hose, and they dance 
the night away in pumps, flats or slingbacks. 
Men tie one on with traditional cravats, bow ties or ascots; they 
pound the pavement in wingtips, loafers or bucks. And socks, when they 
aren't white, can be one of the greatest male outlets for stylish 
expression. Whether they be solid, with paisleys, stripes, dots or 
argyles, men with style often have hot sox. 
Now we arrive at one of the sweetest senses of style: cologne and perfume. In any store, there is a plethora of scents for men and women to choose from. Most of us have our own personal favorites, those we love to wear ourselves, and those we love to catch a wiff of on someone else. You know the kind of cologne we speak of when we say it enhances someone's style--one that will turn a man or woman's head, melt his or her heart, and make him or her want to nibble on your neck. 
On that note, we now conclude our style symposium. Style is not only the comfortable and confident expression of self, but it is the celebra­tion of self. Men and women with style express their beliefs in the clothes they wear and the way in which they wear them. 
We all wear clothes, but those with style seem to enjoy it more. They may be funky one day and conservative the next, but they are always themselves. They swing through life with styles all their own. 
Editor's note: The roommate mentioned above is Ros Winner, who also contributed to the writing of the article. 
l'N St.t-\SI]RS lt-ll>ICf..TE 

Ill'( 1'1\SS\IJN 
TR.A[£ Al'lOI..lNTS Of [~0[­

l'lllST NllT FAILCalvin !Jltl.TE IN n.IE Pt>..NTR'f. 
PR.£P/>J~E F!JR 
PLEf..SE LOAt:>' SDiTIE IN 

AKNII-\1Lf.!..110H.and f'W S[[lQP FOR ANAL'ISIS. 
P\1\FUL EtiR.l\\ FEI'lAL£. 
Hobbes 

'T ime has written romance on 
these walls and here tradition finds a fitting home," wrote the 1925 Dome in a reference to Sorin College. These words apply even more so today. 



LD'J~ 
[ 11 II ]
of the 
~~~ 
l r 
Founded in 1888 by Father Edward Sorin, Sorin College was the first college dormitory to feature private rooms. Since its founding, it has gar­nered a wealth of tradition and un­dergone several face lifts to reach its present state. 
The distinctive front porch of Sorln College Is a relaxing resting place on a nice day for Screaming Otters. 
Sorin originally housed the law school, the law library and its osten­tatious dean, "Colonel" William Hoynes. Hoynes was responsible for one of Sorin's most distinctive physi­cal features, the front porch. Erected in 1905 to prevent mischievous resi­dents from dumping water on people leaving the dorm, the porch has served as the site of pep rallies, tal­ent shows and concerts. 
Sorin's porch was also the sight of the dorm's 1969 "secession" from the University. Protesting residents declared themselves an independent college and posted a "Sorin College" placard on the porch. The placard hangs above the porch today, and 
Another architectural distinction of Sorin, the turrets, have housed some of the most famous Notre Dame foot­ball heroes. "Horseman" Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback of the 1924 National Championship team, lived in one. The basement turret, named the "Captain's Corner," has housed team captains such as Jim Lynch, Rocky Bleier, Larry Dinardo, and Tom Cle­ments. Current tri-captain Andy Heck ­continues this tradition of housmg football captains. 
Sorin was the home of heroes and heroic efforts. Legends such as Knute Rockne, George Gipp, Gus Dorais and Frank Leahy all made their home there. In addition, the "Notre Dame Victory March" was composed by residents John and Michael Shea during the 1908 football season. Sorin was the home to even more heroes, all of whose feats are documented and displayed in the recently opened Sorin Centennial Room. 
Today, the most prominent resident of Sorin College is University Presi­
;_~ 
f ­

The Obi.,.. ­
dent Father Edward "Monk" Malloy. Monk organizes one of Sorin's more famous traditions, the pick-up basket­ball games affectionately known as "Monk Hoops." Each Monday and Wednesday night, Sorinites migrate to Moreau Seminary to play often fiercely competitive basketball games until after midnight. 
One of the dorm's lesser known traditions is the Sunday night laundry drop. Each Monday night from 10 until morning, Sorinites journey to the heights of the third floor to at­tempt "the drop." The goal of the contest is to drop the laundry bundle onto the narrow landing between the basement and first floor. Those who successfully execute "the drop" are rewarded by the respect of their peers. 
In celebration of the Sorin Centen­nial last year, Sorin College started another tradition. A graduation cere­mony was held last spring for graduating Sorinites, who received diplomas to commemerate their four years in Sorin. , 
The Sorin experiment seems to have payed off. Sorin remains one of the most respected and popular 
-dorms on campus, with perhaps the richest history of any. 
Tuesday, October 4, 1988
n.a.....Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, 8CC8Pta classified advatlsmg from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frida~-n.a.....Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through F~-Deedllne for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In parson or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per live c:twactars per day. 
page 10 The Observer 

BED  'N  BREAKFAST -Private  room  NEED  PENN  ST.  TKTS.(ST OR  GA)  Need 2 GAs (not student) for Miami. Call  SMC  SENIOR  CLASS  IS  HAVING  A  IT DOESN'T MATTER WHAT I CALL  
NOTICES  with bath. Football weekends, parent visits, etc. Mine. from cempua. 2n­ WILL TRADE RICE GAS, OR OTHER HOME GAMEST TKTS. CALLJOE 2n­ 284-5666.  BABY OCT 4&5, 9pm&11 pm Carroll Aud $1 OCT 6,7&9pm same place.  YOU...JACK, "JEFF"--EITHER WAY YOU'RE ALL THE MAN I LOVE  
7696.  0725  NEED  A  HOTEL  FOR  THE  MIAMI  
TYPING AVAILABLE  :·····~··· .......................................·:··:··········  WEEKEND? I need tickets for the game.  
287-4082 TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n-7406 Matt "Schmeal'' Gallagher for VP  WANTED ATTENTION FOOD FANATICS IF GOOD FOOD IS YOUR PASSION PUT IT TO WORK FOR YOU!  HELPII I Still need PENN GAs. Please call Nancy 4434 WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center lor ONLY $4 to $1011 239-7442 & 284-4626  Let's talk trade: your tix for my Friday and Saturday night reservations at the hotel on # 31 that rhymes with Test Tinns and starts with a B. Call Matt at x3500 or x3633. GIRLSII My Incredibly handsome bro­ther and roomate !rom Georgetown are coming to NO lor the Miami gam•  SUMMER PROGRAMS FOR SMCND LONDON (WITH TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTLAND, & FRANCE) AND ROME (WITH TRAVEL IN FRANCE, GER., SWITZ,$ N. ITALY). CLASSES IN ART, BUSINESS, EDUCATION, HISTORY, ITALIAN AND JUSTICE. MEETING OCT.5, 'ipm IN MOREAU HALL (SMC), LITTLE THEATER. FREE INFO  CALL X1956 LET IT RING 5 times LEAVE an unwholesome message BECAUSE. TODAY IS JOHN NOLEN'S BIRTHDAYII Happy birthday John I Love, J and M  
DO YOU LIKE JAZ2.? DO YOU LIKE  PART-TIME KITCHEN PREP AND RETAIL (EXPERIENCE NOT NECES­ DESPERATL Y need 2 MIAMI GA's. $$$ 287-5451, KEN.  their !frat NO game ever! NEED 1 OR 2 STUD. TIX TO MIAMI DESPERATE­LVII Call Tony 1717.  & PIZZAII FOR MORE INFO CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 284-4480 OR 272­3726.  Courtney, Thanx tor a super weekend. Society Hill will never be the same. Can't wait to meet you "UNDER THE MILKY  
REGGAE? Then you'll fove MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­cert SUNDAY, OCT. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 & 239-4626. WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE  SARY. ENTHUSIASM AND INTEREST REQUIRED I) CONTACT MARIGOLD MARKET, 272­1922.  1 STUD MIAMI TIX FOR SALE -BEST OFFER BY 1Qo5 CALL 1370 -HEATHER FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL  NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL JIM STYNES AT (BOO) 223-2440 EXT. 7n2.  We gave you SAPS a chance, 'FESS UPII! So about the weekend? Follow up on any groundwork? Mow anyone's lawn? Did she have a GOOD LOOK at least? !!I  WAY" again!ll Love, Trevor P.S. Hope you enjoy the tape. CHRISTINE --FRIDAY NIGHT V-BALL  
-­ HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center lor ONLY $4 to $101 239-7442 & 284-4626 . TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Books lor ALL cfassea still available! UN­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's Bookl, 808 Howard St., just off ol NO Ave. 233-2342. You liked them on Paul Simon's  NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR BANQUET SERVERS AND BUS HELP. THESE ARE ON-CALL POSITIONS AND THERE IS SOME WEEKEND WORK INVOLVED. APPLY IN PERSON AT THE UNIVERSITY CLUB ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. WANTED PERSON TO SHARE A HOME, 20 MIN FROM ND CALL PAM 237-5457; 8-5  MARY AT SELLING 2 STUDENT AIR FORCE TIX CALL 1283 NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288­0968 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. NEED MIAMI TIX 2 GA-3 Stud call 272-3767  NEED MIAMI STUDENT TICKET! WILL PAY$$$! CALL MARCI AT 2278. NEED MIAMI STUDENT TICKET! CALL TIM AT 272-7585. 1 Miami & 1 Air Foce St Tick FOR SALE. Chris 3373 TIX NEEDED MIAMI STUDS & RICE GA'S. WITHOUT TIX WE HAVE NO  DESPERATE NEED RIDE TO NYC AREA FOR FALL BREAK WILL HELP WITH GAS & DRIVE LIZ # 4664 I need rider to Texas for break, call Jon 272-7496 GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAM&ST. MARY'S COLLEGE P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556  Hail to the fairest, Ms. Christine A volleyball goddess on the other team In the sand you did excell With beauty, grace, poise and skill And to end this merry rhyme, I'd bump your serve anytime! VINNY, Thanks for a terrific year! Are we unstop­pable? You are the bestl  
Graceland World Tour; You'll love lhem  'PITT" TIX. CALL RICK 4235  FAMILY OR FRIENDS. x1972.  Love,  
in person! Mlrtam Makeba & Hugh Maaekela In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center. -7442 & 284­4628 .  HELP! I need a ride to Holland, Ml on 1017. Need to leave before 1:00pm. Call Kara, 284-5036.  READY and WILLING to trade ANY home game ticket for 2 Penn State GAs or 1 student. Call Jacqui  PERSONALS  Rochester, NY-Riders needed -Beat the bus Call ANDY 2290 ALL ARE INVITED TO 215 SIEGFRIED  Matt HELPI I need a ride this weekend to either Indy or Bloomington. IN could  
YOU HAVE BETTER THINGS TO DOl Send your package via UPS at THE COUNTRY HARVESTER located lor your convenience In the baaement ol THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER OPEN MON-FRI 12:01H:30 (Not an agent ot UPS). EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 0 holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracles, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful interces­sor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need. To you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. (3 _Our Fathers, 3 Hail Marys, 3 Glorias). St. Jude, pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Amen. Publication must be promised. This novena has never been known to fail. Say it for 9 consecutive days. My request has been granted beyond all possible belief. JPH LOST/FOUND LOST A Gold Chain was lost Saturday on the quad between the South Dining Hall and Badin. If found, contact Vince at 1606. There is a reward! $$$$$ ································································ LOST: Blue-faded Lavi jacket. Left in U­brary Auditorium on Sept. 22. If found, please contact Kevin at1128. Thank you. ''' HELP "' I LOST A BROWN GLASS CASE AT THE PURDUE GAME (WITH  OVERSEAS JOBS. Summer, yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Auetralla,Aala All !felda. $900-2000 mo. Slghteee­lng.Free Into. Wrtte IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04, Corona Del Mer,CA 92825. FED UP WITH LIVING BY MYSELF, IF YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A ROOMATE, CALL NOEL AT 283 2747 OR 239 6916 FOR SALE TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. MACINTOSH 512K FOR SALE WITH FANNY MAC AND ALL MY SOFTWARE FOR $800 OBO. Nick # 1423 TWO PRINCE SPECTRUMS FOR SALE PRE-STRUNG FOR $60 EACHI NICK # 1423 Round Trip Ohare-Aibuquerque Oct. 14­19. Kathy x4821 AIRLINE TICKET: one-way S.B. to Newark via Chicago,leaving 1 G14 at 4:39pm. Female only. Asking $45. Call Karin at 2899. JVC CD PLAYER--A FEW MONTHS OLD, PROGRAMMABLE,CALL X3824 AND LEAVE MESSAGE IF INTER­ESTED JVC QUARTZ LOCK TUNER 35 WATTS, A FEW MONTHS OLD, AS­KING $200 CALL X 3824  at 272-7690. I NEED MIAMI STUDS. BRIAN 2131 I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'SI Will trade 1 Air Force St Tckt ¢$.Price negotiable. Any reasonable offer accepted. Please call Jim X3681 NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$. CALL CAROLE 3296. FOR SALE: One Air Force student ticket. I can even give you a non-picture ID to use with it. I'm only looking for some money to spend in the Bahamas. If you need the ticket, call Jim Winkler at 11 09 or afternoons at 239-7471. IF YOU'VE GOT $$$, I'VE GOT TICK­ETS! AIRFORCE 2 GA & 2 STU MIAMI 2 STU BEST OFFER X3855 HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15 Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete at 287-5871. NEED MIAMI GA'S. 1063. NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS PREFERRABL Y GA'S CAROLINE 283-3144 OR CARLOS 289-8417 I NEED 2, 3 or 4 AIR FORCE GA's I Cell Duane at x1681. FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE student ticket--BEST OFFER--call Mary at# 2286 I need 2-4 Gas for Air Force and Pitt call 2281  N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­1338. A lonely, good-looking man is looting for Penn State tickets, either student or GA. Will offer sexual sacrifices at any hour. Call Danny at # 1450 Maureen "Med Poodle" Gallagher TODAY! TODAY! TODAY! POST GRAD OPPORTUNITIES NIGHT Center lor Social Concerns 7-10 pm STOP BY! DO YOU LIKE JAZ2.? DO YOU LIKE REGGAE? Then you'll fove MIRIAM MAEKBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­cert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 & 284-4626. WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIA HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center lor ONLY $4 to $101 239-7442 & 284-4626 NEED RIDE TO MASSACHUSETTS FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL PAYtORIVE. CALL ALLAN X4296 You liked them on Paul Simon's Gracelsnd World Tour; You'lllove them in person! Mlrtam Mekeba & Hugh Maaekele In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center. 239-7 442 & 284-4626 MULTICULTURAL WEEK GRAND FINALE -MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7 442 & 284-4626  HALL TONIGHT AT 7 PM TO HEAR STEPHANIE AND THERESE SPEAK ABOUT "THE FOOTBALL PLA YEAS WE HAVE KNOWN." JUNIORS JUNIORS CLASS BOXERS ARE HEREII $8 YOU CAN PURCHASE ONE AT THE CLASS OFFICE(2ND FLOOR LAFOR­TUNE) EVERY AFTERNOON AFTER 2PM OR WITH YOUR DORM REP GET BEHIND THE CLASS OF 199011 NOBODY DOES IT LIKE A STEAM TRAIN I WANT A MIAMI T-SHIRT! IF YOU ARE SELLING ONE (ESP. A HATE NIGHT WITH MIAMI) PLEASE CALL X2964 TO MY SNUGGLE BUNNY THAT NEVER DID ANYTHING WRONG IN HIS WHOLE ENTIRE LIFE, JUST ALWAYS REMEMBER THAT I LOVE YOU, AND IF WE BELIEVE IN OUR LOVE, NOTH­ING IN THIS WORLD COULD SEPA­RATE US. WE ARE INSEPARABLE,MY DARLING. I HOLD YOUR HEART WITHIN MY BODY, AND YOU HOLD MINE WITHIN YOURS. SPIRITUALLY WE HAVE EXCHANGED HEARTS. ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER IS INCOM­PLETE. DURING MANY MOMENTS OF THE DAY I DREAM ABOUT THE LIFE WE ARE GOING TO SHARE. THE JOY, THE SPLENDOR, THE GRIEF, AND THE SORROW. I WELCOME THEM ALL, AS LONG AS I AM PROMISED TO BE BY YOUR SIDE. YOU SEE MY GENTLE KNIGHT THAT I TRULY BELIEVE THAT WHAT WE SHARE IS NOTHING LESS THAN TRUE LOVE. AND, IF YOU HAVE FAITH IN OUR LOVE, WE WILL GO DOWN THE ROAD OF HAPPINESS TOGETHER. I LOVE YOU. POOKIE BEAR  leave on Thurs. 100 or Fri. 1017 and return Sunday. If you can help me please call Karen at x1272. WET WOMAN OF WALSH, WE KNEW YOU HAD FUN! HOW MANY OTHERS GET A CHANCE TO SPENO A NIGHT WITH 3 SENSITIVE MEN SUCH AS US? IT WAS SO MEDIEVAL! WE'LL DO IT AGAIN ON YOUR NEXT B-DAY. LOVE, P&T&ME Special to the Law School: Is this what they mean by a Socratic dialogue? 1 :05A.M. 9-27-88 Halo Repairman (Cruiser): You'd better be quiet or else the law librarian on duty will bust you. Mr. Milking Muscle (Tundo): In an explanitory note alter a pause There is no law librarian on duty. Farley's Finest (Susan): Oh my God, there's no law librarian on duty? We should be pop­ping open beers, not Diet Rite. Cruiser: Laughter Tundo: Come to the law library to drink beer?l Wouldn't that be kind of contrary to what you're trying to do? Susan: I always study with a beer. Tundo: That'd be sacriligious-to the beer! Cruiser: Hysterics hey MIKE UEBERTH!! here's to us pooks. love, joy Happy Birthday Val Love That Hair ....... Pete Maryann , thanks for spending time with me , looking toward to Friday Yours DUDE .. To Kevin "the stone hedge doctor" Flaherty Looking toward to more therapy..and a great road trip.. OH bye the way do you know how to swallow .. your friends .. Wallie,apie,and Meathead RIDERS WANTED Anyone needing a rtde to southern Fairfield Ct, N.Y. Ctty, or anywhere along route 80  
- MY GLASSES IN THEM). IF YOU HAVE SEEN THEM, OR EVEN THINK YOU MIGHT HAVE, PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE, LET ME KNOW. CALL SEAN 1900.  JVC CASSETTE DECK DOLBY B,C. GREAT FREQUENCY RESPONSE, BRAND NEW ASKING $155. CALL X 3824 YAMAHA EOUAUZER--10  Ten Canedlan hoeeheads are coming down lor the MIAMI game, and they're bringing Ice cold Canedlan beer and a bunch of funny looking money wllh them. They're offering both beer end cash lor GAs. Good deal, eh?  Sammy the Sand Brethen has his Stan­ford TX but Drew needs two Miami GAs. 288-6207 have BIG $$$$ SMC FALL FEST OCT 6  FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI AND 1 AIR FORCE STUD. TIX $$TALKS. STEVE X 1424. NEED RIDE TO U OF I (URBANA) FOR FALL BREAK ANGIE# 1260  east. Will be leaving earty Oct.16-0NE WAY ONLYI Cell Matt at# 3610  
PLEASEHELPMEFINDMY SUE 0 EJACK E T I HOPEFULLY PICKED UP WHILE CLEANING AT THE  BANOCHANNEL..GREAT DEAL AT $150 CALL X3824 BANG & OLUFSEN---B&O BOOK­SHELF SPEAKERS. GREAT FOR  Cell Marty at 1471 Student Tlcke18 lor Sele  SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. 4:3Q-6:15 PIC­NIC FOR ALL (NO GET COXE'S IN DINING HALLS) 7 AND 9 SHE'S HAVING A BABY CARROLL AUD. $1  ROTC girl: I met you in the sophomore section (row 47?) dun;1g Stanford, but never got your name. You were wearing shorts and were pretty cold. Would love  AITENTIONIII MEGAN GILLIGAN AND BRIDGET BRENNAN EAT LOTS OF DESSERTS FOR LUNCH PLEASE SELL MIKE WADE YOUR  
FARLEY BARN DANCE FRIDAY NIGHT  DORM  SYSTEM  ASKING  $300  WILL  ADMISSION 9-1 FALL FEST GARDENS  to meet you I Matt x1542  MIAMI GA TICKETS.  
DANIEL BOONE STYLE, TAN WITH LONG FRINGES AND FIFTY, YES FIFTY BUCKS IF YOU CAN TELL ME  TALK. CALL X 3824 CONVERTIBLE  Two Miami Tickets and  $1 ADMISSION, SOc. I.D.)  BEVERAGE (21  ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY TOMORROW 12:00 NOON-4:00 P.M.,  HIS PARENTS ARE MAD ENOUGH THAT HIS SISTER ACCIDENTLY TOOK HIS CAR KEYS BACK TO NEW JERSEY  
ANYTHING ABOUT IT AT ALLI CALL  Classic 1967 Mercury Monterey. Ex.  Three Air Force Tickets  SMC FALL FEST OCT. 6  CCE.  SENIORS,  JUNIORS,  SOP­ WITH  HER  LAST  WEEK.  NOTHING  
JEN AT X4238 OR 403 FARLEY.! WILL  cond. $1,400. Cell 277-3014 anytime.  HOMORES WELCOME. SPONSORED  ELSE GOES RIGHT FOR HIM EITHER.  
DIE A HAPPY WOMAN. REMEMBER,  BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­ HELP HIM...287-9870  
FIFTY BUCKS 1111 Lost: NO class ring, gold  with  a_reen  HOME FOR SALE IN ROSELAND -V4 mi. from Notre Dame. All brick, 3 bdrm., xtra bdrm. end beth In finished  Call Will at 283-2089 and BE$T OFFER!  make  your  6-D NINERS FRIDAY THOUGHT­BELINDA CARLISLE-A LESSON TO  VICES. ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY  NEEDED:  Dealers  for  Senior  Fa­ 
stone. Reward offered. Call Dean  2n­ baaement, 30x28 garage, A-C, gas ht,  ALL NO WOMEN ON WHAT A LOSS  TOMORROW 12:00 NOON-4:00 p.m.,  theO'Oaughter  Weekend  Casino  Night  
4673.  deck end landscaped backyard, newer  HELP! NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S 2n-1513  OF 15LBS. AND  A  NEW  ATTITUDE  CCE.  SENIORS,  JUNIORS,  SOP­ Oct.8 You must be 21  years of age. If  
kitchen & carpeting, fireplace, atove,  CAN DO FOR YOU  HOMORES WELCOME. SPONSORED  interested call Connie at SMC Student  
oven,  dishwasher,  waaheotlryer  In­ Need 2 GA'S lor AIR FORCE call 284­ BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER·  Activites -284-4562 for details.  
cluded,  all  window  covertnga  In­ 40431  RIDE NEEDED OCT BREAK AROUND  VICES.  
cluded.  Call  Suun  Bush  277-1851.  SYRACUSE NY WILL PAY! X2128  Tom  Thank  You  for  two  years  of  
LOSTI Sometime on Saturday, Green Field? A green emerald, floating heart necklace Lots of sentimental valuellll If found, please call Kate at 2n-9609. $$$ Reward $$$$ LOST: Casio l(x) 100 celculator between Keenan Hall and Lafortune on Friday, September 2. NO JACKET. Chris 3373.  Broker owned. $58,000. Round trip ticket from SB to Newark 1 G13 -1003 call John 2n-2454 TICKETS NEED GA TIX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272-0D58. sssss  WE NEED MIAMI GA'S AND STUD. TICKETS! CALL MIKE AT X1380 OR JIM AT X1382. 1 MIAMI GA TO FIRST CALLER WITH $75. HURRY! LUIGI .1391 2 MIAMI GA's 4 ule to hlgheet bidder by SAT 1G11 Noon. x3788 12-2 pm or 6-8 pm I Need Penn State GA's, 2 or 4. Call  Going to MICHIGAN? I need rtde to Ann Arbor or Detroit area Oct. 14. Leave balore 2:30. Will pay lor gas. Scott # 1431 I need a ride to PITTSBURGH (or anywhere nearby) for Oct Break--More than willing to share expense&tlelp drive. Call Michelle at X2152. SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES  ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY TOMORROW 12:00 NOON-4:00 p.m., CCE. SENIORS, JUNIORS, SOP­HOMORES WELCOME. SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE,ITHACA OR ROCHESTER FOR BREAK.CALL ALYSSA-2732 DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA TIX TOGETHER FOR PENN STATE CALL  friendship, support, and companionship. You're my best friend-1 love being w~h you. You've given me more than I could ever repay. I only hope that I've made you as happy as you've made me. Always Carrie T J-How's ~ hangin'..,wanna meet half way?, picnics, Lincoln sites, grapes(?), Jamacian cruise, PEAR--only the begin­ning! 0  
FOR RENT  I  NEED  TIXS  FOR  ALL  HOME  Dave x1612. AIRFORCE GA'S  LAST DAY, LAST DAY IF YOU WANT TO BE PART OF THE FUNNEST EVENT OF THE SEMESTER  1395 BRIAN G.  I love you, Babe TO THIS WEEKENDS LUCKY LADY BE­ 
GAMES.272-63011  You have them, I want them. At least 4,  BUY YOUR TICKETS TODAYIII  CALL YOUR MOTHER!  WARE  OF THE  MAN  WHO  IS TWO  
ROOM FOR RENT, CAMPUS. FOR INFO x1073  CLOSE TO CALL CHRIS  desparely need 2 gas for miami (upset) game 2723491  $$ no problem. call 4050, Thank You I NEED 3 PENN STATE TIX PLEASE CALL X2964  LAST CHANCE FOR FALL FORMAL TICKETSIII 3-5 PM TODAY! II 4 SALE: Miami & Air Force Tix. Sold to  LOVE, MOM  DATES IN ONE BEWARE NUDE RICE GET PSYCOLED!!!II!I!I LOVE+iATE, YOUR DATE  
do your parents need a place to stay for football weekends? try the "irish bed & breakfast" --located 2 miles from n.d. for into. ring 272-n38 ·····················································l·········· BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 21&­2111-7153. FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDROOM HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.272-63011  Need 1 MIAMI STUD Ticket, Please call ANNE# 3736 I need 2 AF GA'sl OAWNx2286 NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'SIII S IS NO PROBLEM. PLEASE CALL JOHN 2n­3997. 2 Miami GA's 4 sale-best olfer­Greg(904)492-1404  MIAMI STUD. TICKET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER BY 100. X4111 Need 2 PENN STATE Tix Will pay $ or trade other GA's Sean x1352 Need Rice GA's and Penn State Ga's Abe x1352 For Sale: Stud Airtrce Tkt. Call 283-3952  highest bidder by Oct.11 Call SMC4052 SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. THE MULTI­SOCIAL EVENT SMC Fall Fest Reminders: IF it rains the picnic will be canceled BUT Sha's Having A Baby will still be shown at 7&9 AND The Gardens will still take place 9-1. Get to The Gardens oarty 1>t: there is a 500 parson llm~.(21 ID required)  DEAR KEVIN (SLAMDANCER) AND SEAN (FORMAL DATE REJECTION# 2), HMM .... (SNIFF, SNIFF), DO WE SMELL PIZZA? 'CAUSE WE LOVE PIZZA AND CONVERSATION WITH 'SPECIAL FRIENDS'. (HINT HINT) ARE WE STILL ON FOR THURSDAY NIGHT? DON'T REJECT US OR WE'LL HAVE ANOTHER MAJOR COMPLEX. WAITING BY THE PHONE .... All AND JUDY  TO THE EMPORESS, The tlmele very near, The miles ahrtnklng feat, Can It finally be? Our fove will come alive at lastl Three days -m like a year, And Frtdey never a.med so tar awayl Can It flnaHy be? I'll .,...t you In Pittsburgh, PA A lonely NY Emponar  


-~----........... ----------------~ 
j 

Tuesday, October 4, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
ND still ranked fifth in nation 
Associated Press 17, received three first-place received 692 points. Oklahoma 
votes and 1,088 points. again rounded out the Top Ten. 
Notre Dame remained No. 5 The other two first-place The Sooners beat Iowa State 35­in the latest Associated Press votes went to No. 3 Southern 7 and received 606 points. college football poll after California, which beat Arizona The Second Ten consists of defeating Stanford 42-14 last 38-15 and received 1,037 points. Clemson, Alabama, Oklahoma Saturday night. Auburn beat North Carolina 47-State, Florida, Georgia, 
The first 13 teams in the poll 21 and remained fourth with 959 Wyoming, Michigan, Oregon, remained the same Monday points. Washington and Arkansas. while Arkansas made the Top Florida State was again Last week, it was Clemson, Twenty for the first time this sixth. The Seminoles received Alabama, Oklahoma State, season and LSU fell out. 778 points after defeating LSU, Georgia, Washington, 
Tulane 48-28. Seventh-ranked Florida, Wyoming, Michigan 
Miami, a 55-0 winner over West Virginia received 758 and Oregon. Missouri, received 53 of 58 first­points by turning back Virginia Florida's 19-6 victory over place votes and 1,153 of a pos­Tech 22-10. LSU lifted the Gators from 17th sible 1,160 points from a Eighth-ranked South to 14th and knocked LSU out of nationwide panel of sports writ­Carolina received 732 points the rankings for the first time ers and sportscasters. following a 35-9 triumph over this season. Arkansas made the 
UCLA, which scored two Appalachian State. Nebraska, Top Twenty by routing Texas touchdowns in the final period the No. 9 team, whipped Christian 53-10 and raising its to defeat No. 16 Washington 24-Nevada-Las Vegas 48-6 and record to 4-0. 
The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur Qfflces and start wQrklng qn yqur newspaper. 

GRSt't Wf'Lt. 
CHINEIE-IIIEIICAIIIEITAUIUIIT 
~c a.ctlu8ft, ~n & HuMII Cultllnel 
Lunches starting at____ .$3.45 
Dinners starting at___ ---$4.95 Bestaarcmt open 7 clays Mon.-ThUlL 11:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-Sat.ll:30 am to II pm SUD. &Holidays 11:30 am to 10 pm 
130 Dixie Hwy., Boacalaad (aextto lkmdalra baD) ·272-7376 
Would you like to get $100 for havin a great time? Then participate in our 
DJJ~-~00~ 
October 6 beginning at 9:00 PM First prize --$100! 
Call Maura at 283-3723 if interested 
ND performs well in weekend regatta 
The Sailing Club competed in a seventeen-team regatta last weekend at the University of Michigan. The Irish placed well in highly competitive regatta, taking an eighth­place finish in the "A" Division and a seventh-place finish in the "B" Division. 
Greg Scheckenbach 
Club Corner 
The"A" Division boat was raced by Pete Wall and Watts Hugens, while the "B" Division boat was captained by Patti Losinske and Tom Seffions. Both teams were pleased with their performance at the regatta even though they did not place higher. 
The club will attend a regatta at Purdue University this weekend. 
The Water Polo Club took 14 players to Hope College in Michigan last Friday to compete in its first match of the 
season. 
The attending teams included Hope College, Michigan, and Michigan State. Notre Dame beat Hope and Michigan, but lost to Michigan State in a tight battle. 
The club participated in this match without any practice because of the closure of Rolf's Aquatic Center. They will begin practice after Fall break if the pool is reopened. 
Water Polo Club President Jay Blount is planning to hold a major meet at Notre Dame later in the spring. He hopes to attract some major teams in order to strengthen the reputation of the club. 
\.

The Men's Volleyball Club has begun practice for the upcoming season. 
Coach Bill Anderson practices the team three times a week in the Joyce ACC Pit. The Irish will possibly make a trip to Canada later in the semester. 
Think think of your of your best friend. best friend 
dead.

Now, Dm't drivedrunk. 
.---THETHOMAS J..---.. \ V ~HITE CENTER WFORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 
Presents A Lecture By 
Professor Franklin E. Zimring University of California at Berkley School of Law 
On 
"Waiver, Capital Punishment, and 
the Jurisprudence of Juvenile Justice" 
Noon Friday, October 7 
Room 220 Law School Courtroom 

-------~-~-------~-~-··----~----------------~-~ ---~­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, October 4, 1988 
Suba vital to success of ND soccer program 
By BARB MORAN Sports Writer 

When Sylvia Kathleen Suba was a little girl, she, being the baby of the family, always wanted to tag along with her older siblings. 
Her constant cries of "Me too! Me too!" prompted her fa­ther to nickname her "Mimi" --the name by which she is still known. 
Though the nickname sticks to this day, sophomore Mimi Suba no longer is a follower, but rather has emerged as a leader on the Notte Dame wo­men's soccer team. 
Suba and the rest of the team will be displaying their skills tonight against Indiana Uni­versity of South Bend. It was in the season-opening 5-l vic­tory over IUSB that Mimi scored the first goal ever by the Notre Dame women's soccer team, which is in its first year of varsity competition. 
"Scoring that goal· made all the hard work worthwhile," said the St. Louis resident, who 
ACHA 
continued from page 16 

back. The Irish, coming off a best-ever 27-4-2 campaign last season, are awarding hockey scholarships for the first time in five years. Dearborn, cur­rently an NAIA school, also of­fers hockey scholarships and is attempting to receive NCAA Division I affiliation. 
Meanwhile, Kent State, which had a hard time compet­ing with its league rivals last season, won't even get the chance this year. 
Lake Forest failed to defeat either Notre Dame or Dear­born in nine tries last season. With both these teams upgrad­ing their programs, the Foresters won't find the going much easier in the near future. The Division III school won five league games last season only because it played Kent State five times. With the Golden Flashes now on a mandatory hiatus, those free victories are over. 
"The conference served its 
purpose very well for the 
schools involved," said Irish 
coach Ric Schafer. "Now 
things have changed. We have 
our sights set on a higher level 
in Division I." 

Notre Dame can reach that 
higher level by upgrading its 
schedule. This year's list of op­
ponents already is stronger 
than any the Irish have faced 
in years, with schools like Mic­
higan and Boston College 
replacing the Daytons and Vil­
lanovas that dotted last 
season's schedule. 

Last year, Notre Dame was ranked among the national in­dependents because the NCAA did not officially recognize the ACHA as a conference. If the Irish could become a true inde­pendent, it could allow Schafer more freedom in scheduling more opponents of a higher caliber. 
"I don't think we need to be 
a part of any league," said 
Schafer. "I've been getting 
phone calls from just about 
every team in the country wan­
ting to play Notre Dame now 
that they know we're coming 
back." 
rates the moment right up there with the time her high school basketball team won the Missouri state championship. "I couldn't have scored unless the other people passed me the ball. It's the defense that gets the ball to me. I just kick it in." Suba's soccer career started 
at an early age, as she began 
team play when she was just 
seven years old. Despite many 
successful years of athletics, 
she never dreamed of playing sports in college, especially at Notre Dame. 
"I never thought I would make the team," said the Far­ley Hall resident, "but I played Inter hall soccer last year, and that made me realize how much I wanted to play var­sity." 
Even though playing a var­sity sport cuts down on both so­cial life and studying time, Mimi has never regretted making the committment. 
"It's not like a job or some­thing you're forced to do," she explained, "It's a lot of fun. You just have to love the sport." 
Scheduling will become more important during the 1989-90 season, when an NCAA rule goes into effect that states an independent must have a min­imum of 20 games against Divi­sion I opponents to be consid­ered for the NCAA tournament. 
The demise of the ACHA also would probably benefit the Dearborn program. The Wolves had the toughest non­conference schedule of the four ACHA teams last season. Dear­born also won the regular­season ACHA title and defeated Notre Dame in three of the teams' five meetings. 
"They've improved dramati­cally," said Schafer, who had faced Dearborn in previous years when he coached Alaska­Fairbanks. "As they're getting better, they're finding it easier to schedule CCHA teams and other good teams." 
As things currently stand, 
three teams remain in the 
ACHA. It would be in the best 
interest of at least two of those 
teams for the conference to dis­
solve. The only solution seems 
fairly obvious. 


Sophomore Mimi Suba, shown defending In a recent match against Adrian, has become a vital part of the women's soccer team In the fall 
U.S.-Soviet Relations: Two Journalists' Views 
a discussion with Phil Donahue (Am~rican Talk Show Host) Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
WHEN: Thursday October 6th 8 to 10 p.m. WHERE: JACC TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff 
$6-adults 
Tickets should be purchased in advance. Now On Sale M-F 9-5 Gate 10 JACC 
Also will be sold in the dining halls 

Tuesday, October 4, 1988 The Observer page 13 
LA, Mets open series tonight 
Associated Press  "I started to think about the  evening after beating St. Louis  
Mets as far back as the night  7-5 in the regular-season finale  
LOS ANGELES-For the Los  right after I got the record,"  for their 100th victory.  
Angeles Dodgers to beat the  Hershiser said. "The Mets  Rookie Tim Belcher, 12-6,  
New York Mets in the National  have always been more impor­ says watching Hershiser has  
League playoffs, it will take  tant to me, even than the  been an inspiration to the rest  
some strong-armed tactics.  streak, because of the fact that  of the staff.  
In head-to-head competition  that was a team-related thing.  "It's a thing that snowballs,"  
this season, the Mets beat the  "There's 24 guys when I walk  Belcher said of the Dodgers'  
Dodgers 10 of 11 games and out­ out onto the mound. People talk  excellent pitching of late.  
scored them 49-18.  about how pitching is 70 or 80  "With (John) Tudor, Orel and  
"They have an outstanding  or 90 percent of the game, but  (Tim) Leary throwing all these  
team and are strong in every  I'm walking out there with 80  shutouts this season and lately,  
area," Dodgers manager  or 90 percent of the feelings of  everybody just takes the field  
Tommy Lasorda said. "But we  24 guys and a coaching staff.  and expects a line of goose  
have outstanding pitching,  And for me to be thinking about  eggs."  
too."  a streak would be wrong. So  
Lasorda will go with his best  I'm thinking about the Mets."  Hershiser finished the season  
arm, right-hander Orel Her­ Hershiser's last defeat was a  with a 2.26 earned run average  
shiser, in Game 1 of the  2-1 setback by the Mets on Aug.  and struck out 178 batters.  
playoffs Tuesday night at  24 at Dodger Stadium. He  
Dodger Stadium against  pitched a complete game and  Gooden loves pitching in Los  
Dwight Gooden, 18-9.  allowed seven hits.  Angeles, and his record shows  
Hershiser, 23-8, finished the  The Mets and Dodgers had  it.  
season with 59 consecutive  an afternoon workout at  In six career starts at Dodger  
scoreless innings to break Don  Dodger Stadium Monday. The  Stadium, Gooden is 4-0 with an  
Drysdale's 20-year-old record.  Mets left for the coast Sunday  0.32 ERA.  

College Football Poll 

at PITISBURGH at KENT ST. 

Auburn at LSU Oklahoma St. at COLORADO Georgia Tech at MARYLAND 
Purdue at ILLINOIS Ohio St. at INDIANA Michigan St. at MICHIGAN Central Mich. at EASTERN MICH. Western Mich. at MIAMI 
DIRECTIONS: 

Simply circle the team you feel will win each of the 1 0 games. Contestant with the most correct games wins. In case of a tie, / predict the final score of the Notre Dame . 
1 

game and Notre Dame's total yardage. 
***LUCKY "IRISH" TIE BREAKER*** 
(Pick the scores for each team.) 
__ Notre Dame at PITTSBURGH __ I score score NO's Total Yardage: __ 
TIE BREAKER RULES: 
1. 
Total points of Notre Dame Game. 

2. 
Notre Dame's score. 

3. 
Notre Dame's total yardage. 


To be eligible, eech contestant must fill in date, name, address and phone number below. 
Date 

Name ________________________ 
Address--------------------­
Phone______________________ 
• 
Entries deadline: End of business hours Friday. 

• 
One entry per visit. 

• 
Check The Observer Mondays for new entry form. 



Sports Briefs 
the Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 for all members at the boathouse. The club will send mem­bers to regattas at Purdue and Northwestern this weekend. 
-The Observer 
It's Trivia Night tonight on "Speaking of Sports." Join host Greg "the Wizard" Guffey and the rest of the exec­utive sports staff at 10 p.m. on WVFI-640 AM. -The Obser­ver 
The SMC co-ed volleyball 4-on-4 intramural tournament team captains must attend a meeting today at 4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility lounge. This is the only time that entries will be accepted. Entry forms are available at all Saint Mary's dorms and at Haggar Center. -The Observer 
Officials are needed for Saint Mary's flag football and for the Saint Mary's 4-on-4 volleyball program. If interested, call Maureen Harty, assistant athletic director, at 284-5548. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Requests being accepted for student basketball tix 
Special to The Observer A deposit of $45 for lower arena seats or $40 for bleachers is re­
Students wishing to purchase quired during this application 1988-89 basketball season tick­period. ets must go through a new The ticket distribution will ticket application procedure begin Oct. 31 with seniors. The before Oct. 14. balance of the ticket price is 
Students must go to Gate 10 due at this time. of the Joyce ACC between 9 As reported in Friday's issue 
a.m. and 5 p.m. to fill out an of The Observer, the purpose application for season tickets. of this new application period At this time students will have is to insure every student who to specify if they will want wants a ticket will get one. lower arena or bleacher seats, The 1988-89 home basketball and must pay a deposit on the schedule includes games ticket. against Indiana, SMU, 
Ticket prices for 17 home Syracuse, Temple, Duke, games are $85 for lower arena Houston, DePaul and Louis­seating and $68 for bleachers. ville. 
The 
I~ 
TsociETY4t

Observer
••••••••••••.........., 
: Hey, e 
: WHITE TRASH! : 
: You're 21, : 
: wg~o~ : 
: of the doghouse. : 
: HAPPY BIRTHDAY: 
e. , JIMBO!! e 

Jtoses are red. Violets are pretty.We can ·t be there to celebrate Oh. what a pityl 


[}={]em~~W oo~ ®~[}i)oo cJ]~[ffii) y 
\!llrn ~ lJCDL!]g 
Mom, Dad, "Snooze," 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, October 4, 1988 
Last-second FG lifts Saints 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -Morten An­dersen's 49-yard field goal as time ran out Monday night gave the New Orleans Saints a 20-17 victory over the Dallas Cowboys. 
Andersen's winning kick came after Roger Ruzek --who earlier had missed a 39-yard field goal that hit the upright -­connected from 39 with 24 seconds to go to tie it 17-17. The Cowboys went 43 yards on eight plays to set up the kick. 
But Mel Gray returned the ensuing kickoff 39 yards to his 
42. Bobby Hebert hit Brett Per­riman with a 26-yard comple­tion to the 32, setting up Ander­sen's kick. 
Hebert threw two early touchdown passes and Ander­sen kicked a 27-yard third­quarter field goal for the Saints, only to see Steve Pel­luer and Herschel Walker lead Dallas back. 
The win, the fourth straight after an opening game loss for New Orleans, was only its second ever in 13 meetings with Dallas and its first since Oct. 17, 1971. It moved the Saints into a te for first in the NFC 
Men 
continued from page 16 

Buddy Leo scored on a 45-yard run to lead Holy Cross to its first win in two years. 
"It was a triumphant victory and a huge morale booster," said Holy Cross captain Pete Roberson. 
Defensive lineman Andy Pafaf also helped the cause with a safety. 
Alumni 6, Stanford 0: With the help of a successful game­ending goal-line stand, Alumni handed Stanford its first loss of the season. 
Pete Partin caught a 40 yard touchdown pass from quarter­back John Neirs for the Alumni points. Alumni remains unde­feated at 2-0, while Stanford falls to 2-1. 
Fisher 0, Pangborn 0: In a game that is always a big rivalry between both squads, the teams ended in a scoreless tie. 
"Both defenses played well but neither team could get anything going offensively," said Fisher captain Jim Twecek. ''Itwas a real physical game." 
Off-Campus 10, Morrissey 0: 
Brendon Max scored on a 12­yard bootleg and Tim Healy kicked a 41-yard field goal to improve the Crime to 1-2. Mor­rissey slips to 0-2-1. 

Irish 
continued from page 16 

ball into the Detroit and fired 
a screaming cross right at 
Koontz, who again mishandled 
the ball. Senior Randy Morris 
was left with an open net, which 
he was more than happy to fill. 
"That wasn't what I wanted 
to see," said Grace of the 
Detroit game. "We get these vi­
sions of how outstanding we are 
(and then we let up)." 

The weekend certainly didn't 
help the Irish in the tourney 
chase. Akron, which the Irish 
take on next weekend, jumped 
all the way from sixth in the 
regional poll to second. 

"The shutouts better start 
happening for us," said Grace, 
"or we'll be in trouble." 
Colts better than record 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Despite their record, the Indianapolis Colts are playing better football in some areas than they were a year ago, Coach Ron Meyer said Monday. 
"It's just not registering in wins," Meyer said one day after the Colts' record dropped to 1-4 with a 21-17 loss to New England. "There's a lot of reasons for that: three quarterbacks in five games, third-down conversions, shoddy tackling." 
The Colts started veteran Gary Hogeboom in their opening loss to Houston, then switched to third-year quar­terback Jack Trudeau, who injured his knee against Cleveland in the third week. 
Rookie Chris Chandler led the team to its victory over Miami and its loss Sunday to New England, and the offense sputtered both times. On Sunday, the Colts converted just one of 12 third-down opportunities, bringing the season count to 11 of 53 (21 percent). 
West with San Francisco and the Los Angeles Rams. 
But it wasn't easy. 
After Andersen's field goal with 3: 45 left in the third period put the Saints ahead, they thwarted Dallas twice. The first time came on an intercep­tion. the second when Ruzek's 39-yard field goal attempt hit the left upright with 2:24 left. 
But Ruzek nailed his next try. 

New Orleans jumped to a 14-0 lead in the first 19 minutes as Hebert threw touchdown passes of seven yards to Lon­zell Hill and 17 to Perriman. 
But Dallas came back with two TD passes from Pelluer to Kelvin Martin, the first for 13 yards midway through the second quarter, the second for 14 midway through the third. 
Belles remain unbeaten following weekend wins 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team remained undefeated with triumphs over Taylor University and St. Francis at Joliet last weekend. The Belles improved their season record to 16-0. 
On the road Friday, the Belles defeated Taylor 8-1. 
"They (Taylor) are one of the stronger teams we play," said head coach Deb Laverie. "They are greatly improved this year with their freshmen, so we were really happy to beat them." 
The Belles won the majority of the matches in straight sets. Outstanding performances were turned in by Jen Block, who won 6-2, 6-4, and Ellen Mayer, who recovered from her loss in the second set to conquer her opponent 6-4, 5-7, 6-2. 
The highlight of the matches occured with the number-one doubles team as Block teamed with Marie Koscielski. The duo won the first set 6-3, but was defeated 1-6 in the second. 
The third set shifted back and forth between games frequently. Block and Kos­cielski were trailing 5-4 in the third with their oppo­nents serving for match point. They broke their op­ponent's serve and forced the match into a tie-breaker. They rallied from behind in 
the tie-breaker to win the set 
and the match 7-6. 

At home against St. Francis Saturday, the Belles won 9-0. Saint Mary's dominated all of the singles and doubles matches with several of the players losing only one or two games. 
"There is always one team from Illinois to go to nation­als and St. Francis is usually fairly good competition for us," said Laverie. "To beat them so handily shows how strong we are at the national level. I feel we are the best team in the Midwest at this point." 

Tuesday, October 4, 1988 
CAMPUS 
Noon Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "The Debt 
Question: Still A Pending Problem," by Jesus Silva Her­
zog, former Finance Minister of Mexico, 131 Decio Fac­
ulty Hall. 
Noon MEC presents a fireside chat with Professor Angel 
Delgado on Spain, ISO Lounge. 
12:15 p.m. Women's Resource Committee Brown Bag Lecture on the new campaign for the Equal Rights Amendment, Library Lounge. 
4:30 p.m. MEC presents ethnic entertainment, Mexican 
Ballet folkloric dancers, fieldhouse mall. 5 to 7 p.m. Senior Night at Barnaby's on Grape Road. Unlimited food and discounted beverages will be avail­able for $4. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep­
tion for seniors and MBA students interested in career 
opportunities with Leo Burnett Company, Upper 
Lounge, University Club. 
7 p.m. Preparation for Confirmation Series for candi­
dates and sponsors, Badin Hall Chapel. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep­tion for CAPP, MIS, MCC, and E&CE seniors interested in careers with J.P. Morgan (Systems & Data), Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Gyro Pasta Bar Baked Stuffed Turbot Ham & Broccoli Rolls 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
Jerks 
E..U. B ntiE:!. '1'-'-'f HARD TO 5UPPL Y rilE 
STUOEN'T~  W\H\  A WIDE  
RANG.E  OF  AC. T I'J IT IE5..  
FALL  


Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Shrimp Vegetable Oriental Mushroom Omelette Deli Bar 

The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Bristle 30 British trolley 
I Beer 33 Predicate part ingredient 35 Sly glance 5 Blunder 37 Kind of wave 10 Fastener 39 Sealed vial 14 Hebrew 41 Era in Europe: instrument 1000 B.C.-A.D.
15 Web-footed 
100
female 43 Produce16 Voice range numerous17 Tall, skinny issueperson 44 Spouse 19 Gist 46 Happy look 
20 Sorrow 21 Thosewho 47 Greekpeak 48 NaCl
osculate 23 Numeral 
50 External: suffix 
Comb. form 24 "Olympia" 51 Kilmerclassic painter 54 Indonesian 25 Seventh Greek island group 
letter 56 Shoe cleaner 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 Two long syllables in poetry 
63 Hindu queen 
64 Velsmall ban roll 66 "... as­
gathereth her chickens ...": 
Matt. 23:37 67 Weird 68 Sondheim's 
"-the 
Woods" 69 Village 70 Yukon 
vehicles 71 Turns right, as a horse 
DOWN 
1 Bulk 2 Nickand 
Nora's dog 3 Nobleman 4 Threefold 5 Yellowish-
white 


6 Plunders  
7 Sturgeon egg 8 Honshu seaport 9 Enzyme formed in kidneys I 0 Knee tendon 11 Toward shelter, at sea 12 Asterisk 13 Cooking utensils 18 Clears, as profit  22 Argument 24 -West, of old films 25 Marton and Tanguay 26 Rate of speed 27 Harps, in Havana 29 Abound 31 Antarctic cape 32 -Johnson of N.B.A. fame 34 Archer's need  36-Gam, actress from Pa. 38 Fasting period 40 Deprive of weapons 42 Backslides 45 Silly person 49 Horse's gait 52 Facilitates 53 Waters or Barrymore 55 Strip of equtpment  

Berke Breathed The Far Side 


c.o 

56 Dull 57 Chief Hawaiian island 
58 Something unique 59 Oneofthe 
Turkomans 60 Wineand­61 Being, in 
Madrid 62 Selves 65 Mining find 
Gary Larson 

·­

Frog pioneers 







Sports
page 16 Tuesday, October 4, 1988 
Letdowns and heroics dominate lnterhall 

Anticipated women's battle dominated by defenses 
tall and stopped PE's two-pointBy MARK SLOAN conversion attempt, making
Sports Writer 
the score 7-6. 

The matchup between PW A key intreception by Cari and Farley was less than spec­Martinez allowed Lyons to hold tacular, as both teams put their on to the ball and the win. undefeated records on the line. Siegfried 20, Walsh 8: In a battle of defenses, Farley Siegfried played well on both won 10-0 to improve to 3-0. The offense and defense in its vic­loss dropped PW to 2-1. tory over Walsh. 
The first half saw both offen­Siegfried was well aware of ses stifled by overpowering Walsh's excellent passing at­defenses. No points were tack led by Amy Farabaugh
i 
scored until the first drive of and was prepared to stop it. 
f 
the second half when Farley's Caroline Kleine's interception
f 
I Jennifer Salmon scored on a 35-resulted in a touchdown and 
I yard pass and then added the was one of a few Siegfried in­
I two point conversion. terceptions.
I "Except for the one lapse Siegfried's quarterback led 
I 
that resulted in the touchdown, the offensive attack, passing
I 
our defense played exception­for one score and running in an­
I 
ally well," said PW quarter­other herself. 
I 
I back Jill Bodensteiner. "We "Teamwork was the key," ~ just had no offense." stressed Siegfried captain I "I'm really happy with the Chris Finn. "The whole team 
'. i~o/ 

way our offense responded in played well." The Observer I Dave Mack. 
f 
I the second half," said Farley Lewis 7, Badin 0: Badin's Men's lnterhall football teams completed their the season on a third-quarter field goal. The I coach David Gullott. woes continued as Lewis rolled third week of action last Sunday. In a key games will conclude with the annual finale in I He was equally impressed on to its second victory. matchup, Keenan handed Dillon its first loss of Notre Dame Stadium. 
I with his defense, which has yet Things were looking up for to allow a point. A safety by Badin as it held Lewis scoreless 
! Terrill's late FG boosts Keenan past Dillon 
I Connie Boyden and Christen until the final 30 seconds of the 
I 
White made the final score 10-0. game. Valerie Lamanna took 
I ~ 
The defense has scored more the hand-off from quarterback By DAVE MCMAHON kicker Dan Janyja's extra Troy Thibodeaux and Scott points than it has allowed. Ellen Mouch for a 10-yard Sports Writer point, Flanner downed tower­Tomsik each scored as Carroll
I Lyons 7, PE 6: Lyons scored touchdown run. Sue Lippa rival Grace. Mike O'Neill improved its record to 1-2, 
t early and was forced to rely on kicked the PAT. Kelly Terrill kicked a field scored on a dive up the middle while St. Ed's drops to 1-2. key defensive plays at the end Once again it was a lack of goal in the third quarter as before Janyja's kick hit the "It was an exciting win for of the game to hang on for the offense that resulted in Badin's Keenan handed Dillon its first crossbar on the point after us," said captain Carl Meyer. 
l t victory over PE. loss. However, both teams loss of the season Sunday in In­touchdown. "We feel fine." 
Debbie Niichel was the force were plagued by the cold and ter hall football action. "We shut down their passing Despite a knee injury, quar­behind Lyons' running attack. slippery conditions at game Paul Stephan put Keenan on game in the second half," said terback Raoul Gonzales hit A Lyons' drive that started on time. the board with an option touch­Flanner captain Dave Kelly. Chris Moscardelli on a touch­
its own 30-yard line culminated Knott 8, Howard 0: A Howard down run. Dillon's lone score "We didn't have any penalties down pass for St. Ed's lone in a 20-yard run by Niichel for blitz on the first drive of the came on a run up the middle and our defensive line score. the touchdown. Niichel then game backfired as Knott found by Gary O'Brian. dominated." Holy Cross 14, Cavanaugh 0: kicked the PAT for a 7-0 the opening and scored the only "We didn't do too much Carroll 14, St. Edward's 7: A Quarterback Pat DeLong halftime lead. points of the game. right,'' said Dillon captain Paul fumble recovery by Dave threw a 65-yard touchdown 
PE came out in the second Knott got its first win and a Drey. Brockway on the five yard-line pass to Steve Kozachok and half, moving the ball upfield for chance to salvage its season Flanner 7, Grace 6: With a set up Carroll's first victory in the score. Lyon's defense stood after opening with three losses. little help from the wind on three years. 
see MEN, page 14 
ACHA disbanding 
Soccer squad drops in polls 
By TIM SULIVAN day)," Grace said. "We did not the shot cleanly. 
would benefit Irish 
Sports Writer play well ... We were not ready LaVigne took the loose ball to play ... at least we didn't out of Koontz' hands with hisThe one-year suspension of Kent State's hockey program 
The good news is that the lose." head, and the Irish were up 1-0.
casts doubt on the future of the American Collegiate Notre Dame men's soccer The two teams took turns Notre Dame kept the pres­Hockey Association. 
team is still undefeated. controlling the action. Wiscon­sure on Koontz for theThat's probably good news for the Notre Dame hockey The bad news -" or at least sin had the shots advantage, remainder of the half withteam. 

the mediocre news --is that the but the overall better team several good scoring chances. team played uninspiring soc­could not be determined. McCourt picked up his second 
cer in its two weekend matches Notre Dame forced the assist at 32:36, as Joe Sternberg and, instead of a possible key Badger goalie to make seven slammed McCourt's rebound weekend in its drive for an saves, while Irish keeper past Koontz. 
Steve 
Megargee 

NCAA tourney berth, wound up Danny Lyons stopped just Despite playing lackluster only with a sloppy victory and three. soccer, Notrre Dame seemed
Assistant Sports Editor 
a tie. Friday night's home match to have the game in hand until The 3-1 score over Detroit versus Detroit may have been Detroit brought reality home Nothing against the ACHA, for the conference was 
and the scoreless tie with Wis­even more disappointing for with a late, second-half goal. formed with the best of intentions two years ago. At the 
consin leave the Irish with a Grace. Detroit's Bob Calkins did the time, Notre Dame, Kent State, Lake Forest and Michigan­
10-0-2 record, though they will While Wisconsin was sup­face-slapping with a header Dearborn cited similar philosophies toward education, 
most likely fall out of the ISAA posed to be tough, the Titans which caught Lyons on the finances and collegiate hockey as reasons for starting the 
top twenty which they finally were not. move with 11 minutes to playleague. 
cracked just last week. However, they turned out to in the match. "The American Collegiate Hockey Association is a big 
Sunday, the Irish travelled to be tough. "Now anything can happen," plus for its four members," ACHA commissioner Brian 
Wisconsin for a key regional The Irish opened the game said Grace of the 2-1 score at Boulac said at the time. "With the spiraling costs associ­
match. Both teams remain in flat, finally played good soccer that point. "One more goof up ated with playing major Division I hockey these days, 
the hunt for one of the three at the end of the half and then and (it's a tie). We can't afford you're seeing more and more programs forced to cut back. 
Great Lakes' Region tourna­regressed to their early first­to put ourselves in that posi­Another effect is that schools have had to drop out of the 
ment berths, yet both fell one half ways. tion." more established hockey leagues because the cost of 
spot in the latest regional Luckily, they pulled out a But the Irish did respond. An staying competitive with the top teams in those leagues 
rankings --to fourth and fifth win. obviously fired-up Detroit could not be absorbed." 
respectively. Sophomore mid-fielder Steve team had upset in mind, but But what may have been true two years ago just isn't 
Irish Head Coach Dennis LaVigne opened the scoring in two veterans added an insur­the case today. Notre Dame and Michigan-Dearborn now 
Grace was not happy with the game at 20:01 of the first ance goal for Notre Dame. are building up their hockey programs, rather than cutting 
Notre Dame's performance. half. Tiger McCourt had fired Junior Rolfe Behrje chased a "I was terribly disappointed a shot at Titan keeper Don 
see ACHA, page 12 
in how we played (on Sun-Koontz who could not handle see IRISH, page 14 
I 




