Irish Extra 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan 



y 

etc. 
Tailgating '88 Folkways review 

VOL. XXII, NO. 14 
-~~------------------­
and warmer 
today with a high around 80. 
Mostly clear Friday night. Low in the middle 50s. Saturday ex-
in the lower 80s. 

Dedrick, director of the Notre Dame Physical Plant. The entire dome was last regilded in 1961, and the Virgin Mary, herself, was last done in 1971. 
The task job of regilding the Dome went to Conrad Schmidt Studios. Ac­cording to Bernard Gruenke, Jr., the president of Conrad Schmidt Studios, the process is very tedious and precise. 
In regilding, the old gold, which 
see DOME, page 6 

WEEKEND EDITION, SEPTEMBER 9-11 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Soviet sociologist Kon speaks about reform 

By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Senior Staff Reporter 
Perestroika, the Soviet reform move­ment, will have world-wide impact and should not be taken as an empty prom­ise, said renowned Soviet sociologist Igor Kon in an address last night. " 
"Take perestroika seriously, and don't judge the process as an attempt to make a false impression," said Kon, senior researcher at the Institute of Ethnography of the USSR Academy of Sciences. 
Perestroika began as an attempt to combat the "highly institutionalized in­efficiency" of the Soviet Union, Kon said. "But it was clear to the leader­ship, and the scientists also, that it was impossible to make the economy more efficient without democratization." 
Igor Kon 

"I have taken the idea of perestroika seriously only since ... changes in the political and economic sphere have been followed by real democratization and increased openness," Kon said. 
Kon said that tkere is a psychological change going on in the Soviet Union today. People are showing more initia­tive. "Formerly, young people were moralless and indifferent. Now we are seeing the rise of many social and po­litical initiatives ... and the develop­ment of a new consciousness," he said. 
The changes evident in Soviet cul-
Friday, Sept. 9 
ture, however, will take time to work their way to big industry. "It is impossible to solve everything imme­diately," said K?n. "But if you wait, your problems will never be solved. 
The fate of perestroika, according to Kon, hangs on the results in agricul­ture. "It will be two or three years before the results are known. If we do not improve, the situation will become dangerous. People will become disillu­sioned." 
Many opponents of perestroika are not conscious of their opposition, said Kon. They are spontaneously opposed because they are people who cannot change, he added. "This is a fundamen­tal problem." 
The cultural cause of opposition to change in the Soviet Union is envy, said Kon. "Not only are party local bureaucrats afraid of losing their power, there is also opposition from en­vious neighbors." People who try to im­prove are seen as wanting to receive more, Kon said. 
Tpe opponents of perestroika, often members of the old bureaucracy, would take advantage of this disillusionment, said Kon. But he said that Mikhail Gor­bachev was strong enough politically to withstand criticism of perestroika. 
Kon also called for reform outside the Soviet Union. "We, and this is the whole world, need new fundamental prin­ciples. The world's problems cannot be solved by one nation." 
"Today's issue is independence versus dependence. But we all need to learn about interdependence," he added. 
Kon "is one of the founders of sociol­ogy in the Soviet state," said David Leege, director of the Hesburgh Pro­gram in Public Service. The Hesburgh Program co-sponsored the lecture with several other groups as part of the "Yeat of the Child in Family Policy" lecture series. 
Kon is visiting the United States for a three-month exchange visit. ""'It's his first visit to an English-speaking country," said Leege. 


4:30p.m.: Band Rehearsal. Step off from Washington Hall. 
4:45 
• 6 p.m.: Glee Club (Open Rehearsal) at Crowley Hall. 

4:45 
·6:45p.m.: Pep Rally Picnic in Stepan Center. 7 p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center (outside). 


Saturday, Sept. 10 
9:30a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous. A closed meeting of the AA fellowship at the Center for Social Concerns. 10 a.m.: Band Rehearsal. Step off Washington Hall. 11 a.m.· 6 p.m.: Football Season Kickoff Party (performance by Shenanigans) on South Quad. Noon· 8 p.m.: Notre Dame and St. Mary's alumni, family and friends are cordially invited to the Alumni Hospitality Center for films and information . in the North Dome of the JACC. Enter through Gates 2 and 3. 6 ·6:30p.m.: Glee Club. ND In Review in the JACC, North Dome. 6:55p.m.: Band line up and step off from Washington Hall. 
7:25 p.m.: Pre-Game program in the Football Stadium. 8 p.m.: Football: Notre Dame vs. Michigan. After the game: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, family and friends are cordially invited to the Alumni Hospitality Center in the JACC. 
. 
.~ ----·--·-~­
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
For years, the golden Lady on the Dome has attentively watched over students at Notre Dame. Over the years, however, the gold covering her has dulled. As a result, scaffold­ing was erected on July 5th, and renovation efforts began. 
The dome on .top of the Adminis­tration Building has been regilded nine times, according to Don 

Bike theft suspects caught 
By ASHOK RODRIGUES News Staff 
Due to the collective efforts of Notre Dame Security and several students, two suspected bicycle thieves were ap­prehended Tuesday evening. 
Around 5:30p.m., a Dillon H~ll resi­dent called Security after witnessing two individuals acting suspiciously near the bicycle rack at the north side of the hall, according to Phillip Johnson, assistant director of security. The suspects fled when officers arrived. 
One suspect, who escaped on bike, was apprehended by security on Notre Dame Avenue, just southwest of Uni­versity Club Drive. 

The other individual fled on foot and was pursued by #security officers. Several Notre Dame students, driving a jeep down Notre Dame Avenue on their way to dinner, noticed the fleeing suspect and chased him to C1 parking lot. 
The individual was intercepted by the students in the lot. Chris Brackey, a Notre Dame senior and the driver of the jeep, jumped out of the vehicle and detained the suspect until security of­ficers arrived. 
see BIKE, page 6 

page 2 
IN BRIEF 
The Excused Absences office has relocated to 
Room 119D of the Administration Building. The office is 
open on weekdays from 9:30a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. ~o 
3:30 p.m. The office phone number is 239-8041. The Trafftc Violations office, foi'merly in 119D, has ~een moved to Gate 6 of the Joyce Athletic and ConvocatiOn Center. 
Mumps, the once-common-childhood disease, is declin­ing again after two years on the rise, federal health offi­cials reported Thursday. The Centers for Disease Control reported that mumps was'down by two-thirds through tbe first 30 weeks of this year, with 3,166 cases reported in that time. Mumps reached a record low in the United States in 1985, when 2,982 cases were reported -down 98 percent from the 152,000 reported in 1968, the first year for the licensed mumps vaccine. Mumps reporting then rose over the next two years, to 7,790 cases in 1986 and 12,299 in preliminary reports from 1987. -Associated Press 
Walter Hudson, who has slimmed down an estimated 680 pounds, lumbered out of his house Thursday and greeted the sunshine for the first time in 18 years. Wearing sunglasses to protect his eyes, Hudson walked through a widened doorway and onto a specially constructed, elevated concrete patio. Hudson's fear that his legs would not support his weight kept him trapped in his house and confined mostly to his bed since he was 15 years old. He came to the world's attention last fall when became wedged in a doorway and had to be· rescued by firefighters with saws. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
Voter registration will be held at the Hall Clerk's desk in Grace Hall on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings from 7 to 10:30. The deadline is Wednesday, September 21. -The Observer The pep rally for the Michigan game will be held at 7 p.m. on the basketball courts outside of the Stepan Center. -The Observer Student club presidents who have not received their allocations packets may pick them up in the Office of Student Activities on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center between 9 a.m. and noon and between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. -The Observer Students desiring on-campus housing should make sure that they are on the waiting list by updating their records at the Office of Student Residences in 311 Admin­istration Building. The phone number for the office is 239­5878. -The Observer A Palanca writing session for past Notre . Dame Encounter participants will be held on Tuesday m the Lewis Hall Chapel. Any questions, call Peter. Smith at 283-3683. -The Observer The "Year of Cultural Diversity" at the University of Notre Dame will be the topic of the Campus View Show on channel16. Students Maria Fuentes and Robert Bartolo and Associate Provost Oliver Williams will be the featured guests. The program will be aired on Sunday, Sept. 11 at 7:30a.m. -The Observer We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  

Design Editor ............. Bernadette Shilts Etc. Copy Editors .................. John Blasi Design Assistant .............. Chris Labaree ........................................ Susan Buckley Typesetters .................... Molly Schwartz Etc. Layout ................. Annette Rowland ...........................................Paul Jackson News Editor...................... Michelle Dall ~~~~~-t-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::"8::; :~~~ Copy Editor ..................... Rachel Jarosh ND Day Editor ............... Shirley Gravel Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee SMC Day Editor ............... Sarah Demet Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Patrick Zande Irish Extra ...................... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Layout ........ Bernadette Shilts ........................................... Alison Cocks ................... : ................ AQnette Rowland """' Tille O!Mener (USPS S99 2-<4000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tille OIMener is published by the students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collcac. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $.40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tille O!Mener, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tille O!Mener is a member of Tille Aaoclated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. I  

The Observer Weekend Edition, September 9-11 , 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Over-used words aren't so 'special' anymore 
Overkill does what it says: it deals a lethal blow. It has a way of turning something that was once held in affection to mere tolerance -­and when things get really bad --to the need for distancing from the·object in order to main­tain one's sanity. Smurfs and the dancing raisins fit this category for most people. But I also think of LP albums, music videos, TV se­ries, rugby sweaters and spy novels to which I was once devoted, even addicted, which I can no longer stand to see, hear or wear. 
I feel an urgent need lately to keep arm's length from a basic English word which has been run into the ground so that to see it or to hear it (which is most often as it enters my life) is to register acute distress. The word is "special." The day is not far off, I think, when either William Safire in The New York Times or Edwin Newmann, two renowned essayists on the vagaries of the mother tongue, will share their disgust with thi~ word, too. 
Just last night I was reminded of my antipathy for "special." Looking for a birthday card for an old high school friend, Walgreens at Univer­sity Park and Osco's at the Mall had 37 cards to choose .from designated to "my special friend," "someone special," "a very special friend," "a special someone," and "someone special to me." The theme advanced to greet­ings for "special" teachers, grandparents, aunts, uncles, brothers, sisters, godparents, neighbors ("A birthday greeting to special neighbor"), physicians ("You are really a very special doctor") and more. 
By implication, of course, to choose a card which read merely "Happy Birthday" was to suggest the recipient was ordinary and run-of­the-mill, which would hardly be true: Who would spend $1 (average card price) plus postage on someone who wasn't special? No wonder humorous and insulting cards are so popular--the fare of the other kind is not special but boring. 
But "special" is not confined to card racks. We have special lectures to attend, special paragraphs to read, special notices to attend to, special lunches to eat, special discounts to use, special reasons for doing things, special dates to go on, special excuses to offer, special presents to buy, special issues of this newspaper to publish. 

Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor 

Even in church, as recently as last Sunday, the priest led "a special prayer" for a sick stu­dent, and we were invited (I'm not sure I have this right, but it's close) "to pray in a special way" for someone or something which I forget My mind wandered . . . "to pray in a special way". . . I suppose that's different from praying in an ordinary, un-special way, but how it's how it's different, I have no idea. 
Is there a business opportunity someone is missing in suggesting to Hallmark, and others, vocabulary alternatives like unique, singular, distinctive, unusual, specific, original, or other words custom chosen for the occasion? 
Back to last night. I returned from the Mall to my room and the answer machine was blink­ing. 
A friend had called. "Call me back," she said, "Something really special happened today." I did. And it was. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~=~~-:~-~~~:~:.~~~:~:::.·~~;1··~:~-~~ 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and wtsh her a happy one. By the way 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancingII on pool tilbles tontght II LaFortune. 

CiJfe rotK!It ~eng 
T·SHIRTS 
SWEATS 
AND MUCH MORE!! YOUR DESIGN SCREEN PRINTED TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. CALL UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX 928 

NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 255-4239 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-----------------­
Weekend Edition, September 9-11 , 1988 
Nuclear missles deployed by US 
Associated Press 
KARNACK, Texas -With a 
deafening roar and towering 
clouds of white smoke, two 
nuclear-missile rocket motors 
were destroyed Thursday, the 
first United States' weapons 
eliminated under the arms re­
duction treaty with the Soviet 
Union. 
Vice President George Bush 
and a 12-member Soviet inspec­
tion team were among 
hundreds of observers who 
watched the burnings at the 
Longhorn Army Ammunition 
Plant in northeast Texas, about 
145 miles east of Dallas. 
Afterward, the Soviet team said it was satisified with the burnings. 
Last week, American obser­vers went to the Soviet Union to witness the destruction of missiles there under terms of the U.S. -Soviet Intermediate­range Nuclear Forces treaty. 
"This is the day we begin to reverse the arms race. This was the day we began to destroy the weapons of destruc­tion," Bush said after the missles were destroyed. "This was the day that two great nu­clear powers began to move to­gether toward a safer, more peaceful world." 
Under the treaty, signed in Washington last December by President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, the United States and Soviet Union are required to destroy all nu­clear missiles with a range of 300 to 3,400 miles within three 
years. 
At the White House, Reagan said he had asked Bush to at­tend the event in his place, and he added, "I think this step for peace is something we all can be of." 
.----------------------.... 
I KAPLAN 
-IMPORTANT NOTICE--­( Good News!!) 
A second LSAT prep course for the 10/1/88 test will be starting at the Kaplan Center immediately. If you were unable to enroll or if you are a transfer from another Kaplan Center and were not able to get a seat in Class I, please call the South Bend Kaplan Center right away for class dates and times. You will have the same instructor. Please do not delay if you want a seat in Class H. We regret any inconvenience caused due to increased demand for our LSA T prep course for the I0/1/88 test. 
Kaplan Educational Center l 7 l 7 E. South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
At Longhorn, Army crews ig­
nited the motor of a Pershing 
2 missle and it burned its solid 
fuel rocket propellant for more 
than 50 seconds. Next, the 
motor of a less-powerful Persh­
ing 1-A missile was burned in 
about 40 seconds. 
The motors were bolted onto 
a concrete and steel structure. 
After the firings, the Persh­ing 1-A casing was placed into a large hydraulic crusher and flattened as the Soviets and Bush, using binoculars, looked on. The larger Pershing 2 motor was to be destroyed later after it cooled down. 
"We too are sending our INF missiles to the junk yard," Bush said. "The missile stages we destroyed today are just the beginning. And over the next three years, the United States will destroy over 800 more. The Soviets will destroy over 1,800, capable of delivering roughly four times as many warheads as ours. 
"And at the end, the levels will be equal -zero on each side," he said. "We will have 
destroyed an entire class of nu­clear missiles and we will have relegated the INF missiles to the history books. We're wit­nessing today one of those unique moments in the career of man, a moment when the tides of history turn and a new future dawns." 
Col. Nikolai Chabalin, a senior Soviet inspector, said through an interpreter, "We think it is a great event for the Soviet people, the reduction of two types of nuclear weapons. And today we have witnessed the fulfillment of a significant event in the elimination of American missiles under the treaty." 
The Observer 

Twist and shout The Observer I Lisa D'Anzi 
As part of the LaFortune open house activities, stu-part in out-of-the-ordinary activities for a change of dents ensnared in a game of twister show off their pace and a little fun. flexibilty. During the open house, many students took 
Airbus attack investigated 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Three minutes before he ordered mis­siles fired at the Iranian plane approaching his ship July 3, the skipper of the USS Vincennes acknowledged "with a wave of his hand" an officer's warning that it might be a commercial airliner, Navy investigatorstold Congress on Thursday. 
The warning was called out by one of the officers in the con­fused combat information cen­ter of the sophisticated war­ship, but "other factors" prompted Capt. Will Rogers to order two missiles fired at the jet in the mistaken belief that it was an F-14 fighter, accor­ding to Rear Adm. William Fogarty. 
Iran Air Flight 655, an A-300 
Airbus, was destroyed and all 290 people aboard were killed. 
Fogarty told the Senate Armed Services Committee that an unidentified officer standing behind Rogers called out "possible comm air (commercial aircraft)," and Rogers acknowledged the warning with "a wave of his hand." 
But Fogarty said Rogers was 


Interested in participating? 
Call 239-6940 

Ask for Maura
or 283-3723 

swayed by factors including its takeoff from a military-civilian airfield, its failure to respond to warnings from the Vin­cennes, and the mistaken beliefs that it was outside a commercial air corridor and descending in altitude. 
In addition, Fogarty noted, the Vincennes had just been in combat and was still fighting Iranian gunboats in the Strait of Hormuz at the time of the attack, Fogarty said. 
A written, summary version of Fogarty's investigation was released to the public three weeks ago. As with that report, his testimony Thursday painted a portrait of confusion and human error aboard one of the Navy's most advanced war­ships . 
The Vincennes is one of the Navy's $1 billion Aegis-class cruisers, packed with what the service praises as the world's most sophisticated electronic air defense system. 
The Aegis system worked well, Fogarty said, but the people failed. 
For example, Iran Air 655 had been continually climbing from the time it took off from Bandar Abbas and was at 
LIP SYNC 
October 8 
13,000 feet when it was struck by the two missiles, eight miles from the Vincennes. 
Officers in the combat center correctly identified the A-300 Airbus as climbing until the plane came to within 15 miles of the Vincennes, when they in­explicably concluded that the plane was descending toward the cruiser, Fogarty said. 
The misreading of the alti­tude was one of the most "puz­zling aspects," Fogarty said, but the investigators were 
never  able to figure  out how  
that occurred.  
''The investigation  was  un­ 

successful in satisfactorily reconciling" the discrepancy between electronic data which showed the plane was still climbing and shouted verbal statements that it was descend­ing, he said. 
The Vincennes incorrectly thought the approaching plane was an F-14, Fogarty said, but the after-action report was never able to pin down exactly how that identification oc­curred. 
But Vincennes' officers were looking for F-14s, he noted, in 
see AIRBUS, page 10 


page 4 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 9-11 , 1988 
ND students are robbed 
By SANDY CERIMELE Saint Mary's Editor 
Six Notre Dame students got first hand experience with the reality of off­campus crime when their St. Louis Street house was robbed Monday night. 
The break-in occurred at approximately 11:30 p.m., according to Steve Highter, one of the residents. 
"I came home at 1:30 (a.m.) and unlocked the door," Highter said. "Since the lock wasn't broken, I didn't notice that we'd been robbed until I saw the tele­phone was on the floor and my stereo and the T.V. in the living room were missing." 
A stereo, a television, a camera and two Notre Dame class rings were taken. The students said the value of the items taken from the house add up to an <eStimated overall loss of two -usand dollars. 
According to the resi­dents, the robbers broke the front window and entered through the living room. The students also concluded that there must have been more than one thief, because the speakers that were taken weighed at least 50 pounds, and everything was removed through the win­dow. 

"Our neighbors said that they heard the glass break and came out to check what was happening, but didn't see anything, so they didn't do anything at the time,'' said Highter. 
The east side neighbor­

hood has a history of rob­
beries of this kind, including 
three houses on the same 
corner that were broken into 
and fire gutted during the 
summer, according to one of 
the neighbors. 
"I expected that we'd get 

robbed this weekend or an­
other time when they knew 
we were all away," said 
Mike O'Leary, another resi­
dent of the house. "We can't 
remember a time when all six of us were out of the house, so we figured that they must've been watching the house very closely," he added. 
O'Leary said it wasn't likely that the robbers had cased the house at one of their parties because they never let anyone in whom they did not know. 
"I guess I feel stupid for being shocked, but we learned, and we are going to take measures to prevent this in the future," he said. 
Tim Cryan, another stu­dent living in the house, said that the burglary was a learning experience, and he offered tips that may help deter future thefts for other off campus students. 
"The main thing to do is to have good relations with your neighbors," he said. "Ask your landlord about getting good locks on the doors and putting bars on the windows, and keep your blinds closed at all times so they can't see what you have," Cryan added. 

Take precautions against crime 

By SANDY CERIMELE Saint Mary's Editor 
Students living off campus should take precautions during home football game weekends to prevent being robbed or burglarized while they are away, said Ann Mannix, director of South Bend's Neighborhood Housing Services program. 
"Students can call the South Bend police and ask for protection when they know they are going to be away," Mannix said. 
The best protection is to have deadbolt locks on all doors and to maintain a good relationship with the children in the neighbor­hood, she said. 
"What happens is that people wander in to parties and case these houses so they see what you've got. Then they watch when you aren't home and they break in." 
Mannix added that South Bend policemen have organ­ized neighborhood watch programs in the past to prevent crime in the areas of town where many of the students live. 
According to Barb Krugh, one of two Off Campus Ad­visors to the Saint Mary's Student Government Associ­ation, there are about 140 Saint Mary's students living in houses or apartments off campus. 
A spokesperson from the Notre Dame Housing office said they do not yet have a complete list of off-campus Notre Dame students, but there were approximately 3,000 students who lived off campus last year. She added that the number of students who choose to live off campus changes dramati­cally every year, therefore making it impossible .to es­timate the number of off campus studPnts this year.
"We have not experienced any reported incidents of crime in the past two years, because we have off-duty policemen who patrol the area," she said. 
The Notre Dame Housing Office distributes an infor­mation packet to those stu­dents who inquire about living off campus, according to a spokesperson from the office. 
The Saint Mary's off campus advisors also offer information on safety at an annual presentation in the Spring of every year. 

SZE;.CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AND AMERICAN DISHES 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE IN ORIENTAL DINING" 
• 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS ·FRESH INGREDIENTS 

• 
NO MASS PRODUCTION 


·HEALTHY FAMILY STYLE DINING 
• VEGETARIAN MENU 
In the packet from the Notre Dame Housing Office, the South Bend Police De­partment offers the follow­ing tips to students: 
•When 
leaving the residence, always lock all windows and doors, even if it's just for a minute. 

•Be 
careful not to touch anything if the residence or garage has been broken into. Let the police examine the residence first. 

•When 
leaving for semester breaks, call the police de­partment to have your residence watched while you are away. While the residence is vacant, do not leave televisions and stereos. 

•Get 
acquainted with neigh­bors because they are more familiar with the neighbor­hood and can report suspici­ous persons. 

•Ask 
landlords to change the door locks on all exterior doors prior to moving in, to prevent an undesired visit by an ex-tenant. 


"Ordinarily landlords do not carry insurance which protects the property of the student tenant from fire, flood, burglary, vandalism, etc.," according to thP. Housing Office. 

t·························: 
: -,~., ~ fJSTUDENT UNION BOARD: 
: ~=~ ··················:
1~ • 

Go Irish Beat Wolverines 


• •+
+ SUB Reception for All those who signed up : at Activities Night : 
+ and all other interested students. + + THEODORE'S + 
6329 University Commons HOURS Man Thurs 11 AM 9 PM : 6:30 P.M. : (Across From University Park Mall) Friday 11 AM 10 PM 
South Bend, IN 46635 Saturday 12 Noon-10 PM 
: SEPT 13TH + 
For Ut'servatio11s & Carry-Orll Call: 
272-6702 + **** COME GET INVOLVED **** : 
~.........................• 

Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Gostin speaks on legal aspects of AIDS 

Impress

NOTRE DAME vs. MICHIGAN STATE-SEPT.17th 
people 

By DAVE JACOBSON 
News Staff 
By the year 1991, 250,000 people will have died from AIDS, according to Larry Gos­tin, the executive director of the American Society of Law and Medicine. 
Gostin delivered a lecture on the legal and moral aspects of the disease Thursday at Notre Dame. 
REFEREES 
NEEDED FOR NVA EVENTS WOMEN'S AND GRAD FOOTBALL SOCCER 
GREAT CHANCE TO EARN SPENDING M9NEY FLEXIBLE HOURS CALL NVA AT 239-6100 OR STOP BY NVA IN THE J.A.C.C. 
SOCIE1Ye 

~·························· 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
PRESENTS 

REGENCY 
~ 

SEPTEMBER 9TH AT STEPAN COURTS IMMEDIATELY 
FOLLOWING THE PEP RALLY 
.... 
* 

Gostin suggested that a preventive war be waged against the deadly virus and discussed many of the laws that have been adopted concerning the disease. 
Gostin stressed that there is, as yet, no cure for the Human Immune Deficiency Virus (HIV) in sight. "The only weapon we do have (against the disease) is a formidable ar­ray of information about the 
* 
WINNERS OF THE NACA 1985 CONTEMPORARY MUSIC ARTIST OF 
THE YEAR AND THE . 1986 JAZZ ARTIST OF THE YEAR 
* 
* 
spread of HIV," said Gostin. "There are three ways to com­bat AIDS: education, educa­tion and education," he added, quoting the Surgeon General. 
Public education in Chicago, San Francisco, New York and Los Angeles has resulted in a virtual halt in the spread of the virus, according to Gostin. 
He said that the majority of the information that is being distributed to the public, 

Costa,speaks on Bangladesh 
By JULIE FLANAGAN 
News Staff 
The flood waters which sub­merged three-fourths of Bangladesh, leaving millions of individuals starving and homeless last week, have begun to recede. 
"This is the worst flood in his­tory," said Father Benedict Costa, a Holy Cross priest who recently arrived at Notre Dame from his native country, Bangladesh. 
Costa said, "It (the flood) is 
fAMERICAN CANCER 

however, is not helpful, be­cause the majority of education about AIDS deals only with one solution to the problem: abstinence. 
According to Gostin, people need to learn about other op­tions. "There has never been a culture that could eliminate non-monogamous sex, prostitu­tion or drug use," Gostin said. Because of this, he said we must drop the \'naive notion" 
so terrible. It is hard to imag-small, one room mud huts with 
ine." straw roofs that constitute the _ 
Estimates of the number homes of local villagers were 
dead are around 1000. In many swept away by the flood. 
cases, victims can not be The Holy Cross priests have 
buried because the land is un-operated missions in 
der water, according to Costa. Bangladesh since the 1840s. 
However, Costa added, "For Their primary concerns, ac­
many, real misery will soon cording to Costa, include ser­
start." ving in hospital ministry, 
Twenty million individuals rehabilitating economically 
are starving to death while they dependent individuals, and 
await relief aid from countries working toward social justice. 
like the United States and Costa, who has a family 
Japan. For many, the only living on the higher lands of the 
source of drinking water is the capital city, said that during 
fl?od water itself. As a result, the monsoon season a slight 
dtar_rhea and dysentery are af-rise of water is expected which 
fectmg _large segments of the will benefit the rice crop. 
population. ~ith respect to this historic 
For many of the homeless, flood, Costa said, "To heal the 
there is " ...just no place to cycle of shock will take much 
go," Costa said. Millions of the time." 
The Observer I Usa D'Anzl
Pump It up 

Dean Brown gives a pep talk to the many students at the Dillon Pep Rally. For many students, the rally kicked off the beginning the weekend. 
that people will simply stop practicing such actions. AIDS education needs to involve frank discussions of condoms and the sterilization of needles, according to Gostin. 
Gostin also suggested that case findings be included in the war against AIDS. This would entail screening and testing people around the nation for the 
see AIDS, page 9 

092571
092418 
092580
092421 
092582
092440 
092584
092445 
092608
092468 
092654
092483 
092671
092503 
092673
092519 
092695
092525 
092700
092532 
092702
092533 
092719
092534 
092727
092541 
092765
092549 
092767
092557 
092785
092563 


Ticket Winners 
095628
095506
095131 
095323

092791 
095515 
095631
095171 
095331

092802 
095516 
095633
095175 
095335

092803 
095522 
095645
095183 
095367

092812 
095543 
095650
095381
095189

092824 
095544 
095656
095399
095194

092839 
095555 
095671
095212 
095404

092860 
095567 
095675
095215 
095409

092861 
095572 
095690
095223 
095414

095030 
095589 
095697
095235 
095444

095050 
095591 
095702
095254 
095455

095058 
095713
095596
095291 
095456

095073 
095720
095610
095303 
095459

095079 
095734
095611
095308 
095475

095112 
095736
095620
095309 
095483

095118 
095756
095625
095314 
095504

095128 
095913
095762 

095916
095789 
095792 

095920 
095921
095799 
095800 

095927 
095801 

095937 
095802 

095941 
095812 

095956 
095974
095813 

095975
095820 

095977
095830 

095978
095831 
095848 

095984 
095851 

095988 
095866 

095990 
095886 

095997 
095896 

096000 
Winners must ~resent lottery ticket to purchase game tickets. ach ticket holder mat purchase up to 2 game tickets on Monday or uesday in Rm 002 of LaFortune between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. 




--~--­

-~--­
page 6 
The Observer Weekend Edition, September 9-11 , 1988 
Dome 
continued from pag~ 1 
acts as a base for the new gold, is first washed with a chemical solvent. "Over this washed and chemically treated gold sur­face, we apply a clear acid primer which actually etches the gold, thereby creating a new surface," said Gruenke. 
"Gold size, a ... varnish, is applied next. The varnish, which dries to a slightly tacky consistency within 24-48 hours, helps the Dome grasp the new gold and keeps the layers from separating. When the varnish is cured properly, the new sheet of gold leaf is applied." 
All the gold garnishing the Dome "weighs less than a couple of pounds," said 
_ Gruenke. "The 23 carrot gold leaf used is in strips 3 311 inches wide and 0.4 micron thick; all the strips used laid end to end would be 15,095 feet, or approx­imately 3 miles, long." According to Gruenke, this gold is "so thin that you can see through the leaf if it is held to light. 
The cost of the regilding is approximately $286,000, said Dedrick. $68,000 of that amount will cover the cost of the gold, $122,000 will cover the labor in­volved and $96,000 will cover the scaffolding, he said. 
Weather permitting, the Dome should be completed Sat­urday morning, but Gruenke said it will remain surrounded by scaffolding until later next week. 
The extreme temperatures in Indiana this summer "did not adversely affect the Dome, but it did affect us (the workmen) as individuals," Gruenke said. "The surface temperature of the Dome was beyond belief; you could fry an egg on it," he said. 
To avoid the midday heat, tHe men worked from 5 a.m. until 
10:30 a.m. and then resumed work at 5 p.m. until dusk. 
Conrad Schmidt Studios, which has been working with Notre Dame since 1926, is also currently renovating the stained glass windows in Sa­cred Heart Church. 
''One of the oldest and largest restoration firms in the country," Conrad Schmidt' Studios has also "restored 8 ballrooms at the Waldorf Hotel, Union Station, Nashville, Union Station, St. Louis and numerous other churches and cathedrals," according to Gruenke. 
Bike 
continued from page 1 
According to Notre Dame senior Chris Hasbrook, a pas­senger in the jeep, the suspect denied stealing the bike after he was caught. 
Security confirmed that two bikes, which were secured to a bicycle rack outside of Dillon 
Hall, were stolen on Tuesday evening. Both bicycles were recovered, though their return to the owners was delayed be­cause neither bike was regis­tered with security. 
The identity of the suspects, both juveniles, has not been released. One of the individuals was referred to Park View Juvenile Detention Center. The other is now in the custody of his grandmother. 
"We applaud the individual who took the time to get in­volved and call security, and the individual who assisted se­curity in apprehending the suspects," said Johnson. 
Debut of the new Dome 

For the past summer, the Dome has been covered with scaffolding. As shown above, Mary has recently been com­pleted and is ready for the big game this Saturday. The Dome, upper right, has scaffolding around the lower rim including canvas windshields that assist workers. Bob Pet­tis, at right, applies the final layer of gold leave which is later polished to a smooth surface. Workers are attempting· to have the Dome finished by the time the alumni flock to the campus this weekend. 
Photos by Mike Moran 

Shuttle crew to announce launch date 
Associated Press that we're ready to pick up the .ve've finally got it put back to-itoring systems, just as they 
count for real; I hope that we gether." will on launch day. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -will be able to do that by the He referred to the long The commander is Navy
Discovery's astronauts donned end of the month," Kennedy recovery, with its many set-Capt. Rick Hauck. The pilot is 
orange pressure suits and Space Center Director Forrest backs and milestones, from the Air Force Lt. Col. Dick Covey, 
threw switches in a successful McCartney told the launch Challenger explosion that and the mission specialists are 
practice countdown Thursday, team after the test. killed seven astronauts on Jan. George Nelson, Lounge and 
and NASA officials said they "It certainly sets the stage 28, 1986. Marine Maj. David Hilmers. 
hope to launch the firSt space for what we're about ready to Thursday's practice All have flown on shuttle mis-
shuttle since the Challenger do here in just a few weeks," countdown was the last of those sions. 
tragedy this month. launch director Bob Sieck major milestones, and it was For the test, they wore bright 
The National Aeronautics added. completed with only a few orange pressure suits, the first 
and Space Administration "You have a feeling this train minor communications time a crew has not worn com-
plans to announce a launch is about to leave the station and glitches. fortable flight coveralls since 
date Wednesday, following a we're about to get on board," It began Wednesday, and the the fifth shuttle mission in 1982. 
two-day flight readiness said astronaut Mike Lo';lnge. five-man Discovery crew Hauck and Lounge will be 
review here. Officials have boarded the shuttle Thursday back here next week to repre­
been discussing a date from "The enthusiasm around to participate in the final two sent the crew at the flight
Sept. 26 to 29. here is obvious," McCartney hours, throwing switches, test-readiness review which will de­
"We clearly demonstrated said. "It seems to me like ing communications and mon-termine a launch date. 

~~--------------------------------~
NEED A DJ?
KATHY 
KIRIN 

THEN CALL 
HAPPY 

SOO"D 
18th 

EPIDEMIC
BIRTHDAY 

if music's a problem, we're the cure. 
Sept. 11, 1988 

SYR's, parties, Dances, All Events on and off campus 
' . 
283-1765 Tim McAdam 

---------------------------------------------------~-------­
..;,~~.;.·~-~~ :~«~;:~~~*'~( --~"'
------· _;­

-­Head over heels  ~  -~,.-,.;;.,;;."  -~-•  The Observer/Lisa D'Anzi  
The cheerleaders get in some last minute practice  as they gear up for their first appearance before the  
student body.  

Burma demonstrators demand democracy 
Associated Press 
RANGOON, Burma-About 1 million people, including Cath­olic nuns, intelligence officers and the blind, took to the streets Thursday to demand democracy, and vigilantes be­headed three people who tried to poison protesters. 
The state radio said security forces fired on a crowd of 500 looters in the suburbs of the capital, wounding 17. The radio also said seven corpses with stab wounds were found float­ing in Rangoon's Inya Lake. 
A sea of people surged through the city. The demonstrators want to bring down the government of Pres­ident Maung Maung and end 26 
years  of  one-party  aut­ 
horitarian rule.  
More  demonstrations  were  

planned Friday, with some op­position groups hoping the gen­eral strike could be sustained 
The Pre-Law Society 
will be~administrating a mock LSAT for Seniors Saturday, Sept. 17 from 8:30AM-12:30 127 Newland 
if interested sign up at 101 O'Shaughnessy by Tues. Sept. 13 
From the Director of 
rrYot.u 
THE DEAD (1987)

PRIZZI'S HONOR... 

John Huston's 
THE 

DEAD 
Starring Angelica Huston 
TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 
7:30, 9:30 

AQWORKS 
until the government gives into 
demands for a multi-party 
democracy. A newly formed 
union of bank employes said all 
Rangoon banks would be shut 
down Friday. 
More than half a dozen em­
bassies, including the British, 
planned to evacuate depen­
dents as soon as possible. 
Diplomats said Japan, the So­
viet Union and China sent out 
dependents and aid experts 
earlier. 
Evacuations of foreign na­
tionals were delayed because 
the strike at Rangoon Airport 
forced cancellation of all flights to Bangkok, Thailand. The American Embassy planned to start evacuating its 100 dependants, and sources said a special flight may be ar­ranged. 
Some analysts believe aut­horities are orchestrating the chaos to justify a military takeover or a reassertion of the party's once unquestioned con­trol. 
Thursday's march was largely peaceful, but sources said a mob killed two men and a woman who gave poisoned ice water to several demonstrators, including schoolchildren. 
The sources said that after the trio confessed to having been paid $42 each to poison protesters, a mob dragged them outside a monastery, beat them to death and beheaded them, hanging their heads on posts at a major intersection. It was not clear whether any protesters were poisoned. 
Residents said more than 700,000 protesters marched in the central city of Mandalay, 350 miles north of Rangoon, and in Monywa, an important trading town 60 miles northwest of Mandala~. 
Tonight 7:30. 9:30 John Huston's last film based on a James Joyce novella was chosen Best Film of the Year by the Natkmal Society of Film Crit­ics. Starring Angelica Huston. 
TARNISHED ANGELS (1958) Monday 7:00 This Adoption of a William Faulkner novel deals with a reporter's futile attempt to define modern life through a bizarre group of barnstorming pilots. 
OCTOBER (1928) Monday9:00 Sergei Eisenstein's classic film reconstructs the events In Russia between Lenin's secret return from exile and the Bolshevik sei­zure of power In 1917. 
GOLDIGGERS OF '33 (1933) Tuesday 7:00 Hollywood musical featuring one of the most famous chorus lin numbers, 'We're In the Money·. Starring Dick Powell & Ruby Keeler. 
LADY VJJNDEMERE'S FAN (1925) Tuesday 9:00 Emst Lubitsh directs this sophisticated comedy following the text of Oscar Wilde's play. 
CALL THE FILM HOTLINE 239-7361 
page 7 

Quad party planned to kick-off football season 
By COLLEEN CRONIN Senior Staff Reporter 

Looking for something new and different, fun and exciting to do before the football game? On Saturday, from 11 am to 6 pm, Student Activities is spon­soring a Football Season Kick­off Party on South Quad. 
"Because of the late kickoff on Saturday," said Joe Cassidy, director of student activities, "there isn't much for people to do. Many people are still arriv­ing on the campus, and we wanted entertainment for people to see." 
Almost everyone should find something that appeals to them. Student Activities has asked the Notre Dame Leprec­haun, the cheerleaders and the pom-pon squad to pump up the crowd for the football game a 6 ,.....,,. Michigan. 
~­
Pick a dog 

Residents of St. Edward's Hall and Pasquerilla West gather around the grills during a big brotheli'big sister picnic held for the freshmen of both dorms. 
Atlantic Ocean Living Child Care or Elderly Non-Infirmary Care 
Full time Live-in position available in Boston Call or write: Helping Hand 25 West St. P.O. Box 17 Beverly Falls, Ma 01919 1-800-356-3422 



CATCH ~~ 
SOME ~~·-RAYS 
• .~,WITH THE 
[(\~• IRISH ~ \>Sunday will be one · of your last chances to spend an afternoon in the sun before the leaves start 
changing... Oh, and bring your parents since they'll be here for the football game anyway. 
SUNDAY-___, NO vs. Xavier l:oo $1.oo adult $l.oo student 
I 
Tickets available one hour 
,1 
prior to game time 
.@WORKS 

J 
Shenanigans will also per­form, as well as a folkloric dan­cing group. For the few who still are not fully entertained, demonstrations by the Martial Arts Institute, the Tae-Kwon­Do Club and the Gymnastics Club will also take place, ac­cording to Cassidy. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club and the popular campus band The Groove will perform as well. To further the football frenzy, helium balloons and face painting will be available. Food and refreshments will also be served. 
Jack and Rob, the two mor­ning disc jockeys on SUNY 
101.5 will be broadcasting from South Quad as well. 
Cassidy said he hopes "everyone can come out to en­joy the wide variety of enter­tainment, and support their friends." 
-""Jo--:--·.-3.­
;. +~.:~. • -r.;:: ~ 
,,,,.~ ·-·--\ .,.. 
.... _._ ~1. 
':._,~,... 



page 8 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 

GO FIGHTING IRISH 
Ready Home Speaker YAMAHA '-~ · Fully Automatic Turntable w1ow $75 ea mass tone arm 
TT400 
$199

Nakamichi W'free Grado Cartridge $60 value 
~

DENON ' ...,. ______ ---=-·--: ~-~---..,: 
Value Performance :;.. 1 ., • = ~--~
Leading ~ ~ fli -----, i~ 
--~ ----·...---.. . -..:......_ ·-­
Cassette Deck Dolby B&C AM!FM Digital Receiver 30
CRIA $
329 W.P.C. at 8 Disc reate Outputs & CD direct input $299 
DRA25
YAMAHA 
JVC 


14 Control Graphic Equilizer 7 
Band per channel Eq 4x oversampling CD Player 
Recording SEA 12eK $95 W!Remote Ant. Vibration Transport $
289 

Technics 
-
_\-':' ­
-~-­

Digital Car Stereo W'Oolby Auto Reverse Fader Bass & 
VHS HQ VCR W!Remote 14 Day $249Treble Controls 
4 event timer 
caR 210 

only $199.95 
reg. $380 
CiaS-sic m'"""' Stereo "" 
"""'"""' """""' ro """"""' 






South Bend: University Common~ across From the University Park Mall Mon-Fri 9-8-'Sat 9-5-'Sun 12-5 

277-1515 Sales Service Installation 
Master Card 
*Some items not as pictured 

---------------~ 
Weekend Edition, September 9-11 , 1988 The Observer page 9 
A squared,So you heard about my accident 

FOR SALE: 1 stud MIAMI tix-best offer-

Computer blamed
Glad you're here-­I did a flip over a Porsche call Uza 2534 Need I say more?

It's been In all the papers So to make a long story short 
Class • 
•
TO THE ONLY REAL 'FLASH'-MIKE
Jan,

continued from page 15 I'm doing great DENISOFF Good luck In the geme to­
Just think-­

I'm glad to be back morrow! FROM • non-pee..nt friend. 
1n prison m~x-ups
Only 14 wks. until D.C.--Don't worry.

I DESPERATELY need 5 GA's lor Mic­But everyone's still asking P.S: RELAX! She'e going to like you-
We'll will make Ill

higan. 1 can get by with 2 of those as "Is there anything you lack?" R. eo don't wonk out on mel 
Associated Press least one inmate to remain in
student tlx. My family Ia willing to pay a 
lot of$$$$$. Please call T.J. at 283-1837. Well,yes there Is FINALL VI A sport that requires little or BARFY the APPLE II 
jail when he should have been 

............................ I must say no physical exertion. THE BOOMERANG Coming soon to a dining hall near you. 
INDIANAPOLIS -A new freed last weekend, and other
ATTENTION ALL MICHIGAN FANS: I want to see everyone CLUB has been formed lor those of you ............................................................... . The Notre Dame Chapter of The Wol­To say thanks on Monday who preler not to run after the things you The BOILERMAKERS ARE COM­
countywide computer system inmates' have suffered delays 
verine Fan Club Welcomes You throw. call 1121 lor details. ALSO. the INGIIfll 
is being blamed for causing in their court appearances and 
GO BLUE Your prayers were great Thalidomide Babies are auditioning Need 2 GA'e end one etudent ticket The flowers were line drummers. Call same # lor details. (or GA) for Purdue game. Family dying 
delays in prisoners' releases releases have been delayed, of­
John McO.ker: 
But what I'd really like ................................................................. lo see the Irish crush our southern rivals I 
and pushing inmate population ficials said. 
We are deeply sorry to hear of your Is just an hour of your time N.A.A.C.P. newsletter meeting Monday Please he/p/11 Call Greg x3367 or Chrisgrievous family losses. What are the odds 
at the Marion County Jail to a "There are bugs," said
7:00 p.m. 222 Hayes-Healy x2773.of loosing eight family members in one 

week? Take your time with the assign­ments and come to cl888 whenever you wish. Your feculty. A.L. PETERSON: U A Beautlfull TOM-STEVE, STEVEIT'OM (or whtever your names arel) Peanut butter just Isn't the same without you two I LUV THE MASHER AND THE DIRTY DANCER  II you bothered to send A card or a flower · fOU didn't have a chance to call Or were there every hour II you met me once Or worked with me every day The time to come by Is 9:00 pm on Monday At that time In Knott Hall  Ch;\~·o~~~~iiY~~~·th;t·:;~·~·;~-~~;ri~. MUSH"'AN·o··:r:i~GGRRRR''WE ..FiXED does this mean I have to share my red YOUR CAR, BROUGHT YOU FUDGE, purse? TOOK YOU TO CHICAGO, FIXED YOUR LOFT, TOOK YOU TO THE ................................................................ MOVIES, THREW A PARTY, AND NOW YESTERDAY was Suzanne Fitzgerald's WE'RE RUNNING A HOTELIIII AND birthday. Call her at 1338 and howl like YOU THINK WE'RE EVENII...YAH a dingo. FROM The Drooling lnbreds AIGHTII ................................................................................................................................ HELPII We are in desparate need of a Onca duck, Always a duck, Never a duck ride to Milwaukee on Friday, Sept. 16 apartl D KATIE O'CONNELL D is 19  near-record level, officials Presiding Judge Harold said. Kohlmeyer of the Marion The jail population reached County Municipal Court. "But 1,253 inmates early Wednesday we are tickled to death the sys­-just two short of the record -tem works. It is a very complex said Deputy Chief Jerry Cooper system." of the Marion County Sheriff's "We put a system up that in Department. real simplistic terms put 4,300­ 
GIL IS COMING! GIL IS COMINGII WEL­COME BACK GIL-GIL-GILIII  I'm having a mass To say thanks to one And all Lisa Mackall ...........................................................  and back Sunday, Sept. 18. We will pay todayl Happy Birthday to the original your gas and tolls. Please call Chris or FFHI love, Uzreilly, Wendy-0, Stupid, Paige at x2923. and Sandy ............................................................... ...............................................................  The population was down to 1,231 by late Thursday mor­ning, officials said .  some people on computers vir­tually overnight," said Linn Piper, director of the Marion  
Computer  bugs  caused  at  County Justice Agency.  

Jaycees president faces drug charges 
Associated Press rested Wednesday as part of a ring's alleged kingpins. follow a 2-year probe during ment with conspiring to dis­
federal crackdown on what aut­But he was one of 27 people which agents seized $310,000 in tribute cocaine from Novem­
CROWN POINT, Ind. -A horities call "the biggest or­arrested Wednesday by 130 cash, 10 vehicles worth ber 1984 through last 01onth. former president of the Hobart ganized drug ring in Lake police officers who fanned out $125,000, two Lake CountyJaycees, once recognized as a County." across Lake County to arrest homes valued at $105,000 and Cullen is charged with two blue-collar success story, IS Cullen, who served as presi­27 people accused of dealing 18 pounds of cocaine worth $1.6 counts of selling about one 
facing life in prison and a $6 dent of the civic group for a cocaine. Five others were million. ounce of cocaine and with an million fine on drug charges. one-year term in 1984-85, was being sought. Thirteen people were additional one count of conspir­Michael Cullen, 33, was ar-not listed among the drug Authorities said the arrests charged in a 28-count indict-acy to distribute cocaine. 
Aids

GE Open House 
continued from page 5 
virus. The sexual contacts of AIDs victims would then be notified that they, too, could be carriers. He said that this method was successful in limit­ing gonorrhea and syphilis.

Who? BS ;ttHI \IS c;~ndidates in: 
Although every state in the country has introduced a bill
Engineering Business 
dealing with premarital
• .\erospare • Computer Srienre 
screening for AIDS, Gostin in­sists that this is a bad idea. "We found that a national premari­
• 
\lccltanical • Fu )Jl< )Ill ics 

• 
Flcctrical • .\rcounting 


• tal screening would target 3.8 
• ( :hcmictl • Finance 
million people. It would detect, however, less than .01 percent
\1athematics 
of the infected population in this country." 
Gostin concluded his lecture by discussing the govern­

What? '\htr clt;~nce to learn ;.~_bout the CF businesses that 
ment's role in the AIDS crisis. ";11 lw intt'l'\·ie\\ing on campus. So H)U ran sil-,'11 up 
Recently, a number of criminal cases have surfaced involving'') in len ie\\ \\it h the business t h;tt makes the best AIDS patients. According to l!l;lldt \\'llh \Ollr inten·st.-;' and goals. Presentations 

Gostin, one man was actually \\'iII explore: 
tried for murder after he spat on someone. 
• .\ppl i;mces 
Gostin claims that the com­pulsory powers of the state have been misplaced. He said 
• .\~:·:r:rii Fngines 
• l.iv:zting 
there have been more laws con­

cerning the criminal aspects of .\lm, 1he f( )llo\\'i ng C E corporate training prol-,'l·ams 
AIDS in the U.S. than in any other country in the world. Gos­'' iII he rcp rescn ted: tin ended his lecture with a plea 
• Fin;mci;tl \lanagement PmgTam for education instead of prose­cution.
• 
hiisu11 Fngineeting ProgTam 

• 
\lanubcturing \LtnagenH.'Ill ProgTalll 


Gostin's lecture, held in the Law School building, was the 
• lnf( ll'lllat ion SYstem \lanagcmenl ProgTam first in a series of four lectures on the topic of AIDS. 

When and \fonda\~ September 1~. 7:00-~1:00 p.m. Center f()r Continuing Education-Dining .\rc.t
Where? 
What else? 
lnf(>nllal mixer \\·ith ( ;E people, immcdiateh· fi )llo\\·ing the pn·st·nt;ttions. Refi'l·shments \\'ill he sern·d. 
• 
The mark ofa leader. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Dm't drMdrunk. 
Reader's Dlgeet 


~--~---~-------~~~­
----------~~­

...-------~~--~-~-----------~-­
page 10 
Both Mutz, Bayh triumph in debate 
' 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Sup­

porters of Republican guber­
natorial candidate John Mutz 
and Democratic nominee Evan 
Bayh laid plans Thursday to 
make the most of their candi­
dates' performances in a 
debate most said ended without 
a clear winner. 
"It was probably a win-win . 

situation,'' said Michael 
McDaniel, Mutz's campaign 
manager. "To come out of last 
night without being hurt or 
without a major blunder is a 
triumph.'' 
Joseph Hogsett, Bayh's cam­

paign manager, said the debate 
Wednesday night at the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame "was not a 
win-or-lose, live-or-die proposi­
tion, but it was a help for voters . 
trying to make their minds 
up." 
Both campaigns plan to take 

advantage soon of interest 
generated by the debate. 
McDaniel said the Mutz cam­

paign _will probably try to rally 
hard-core Republicans within 
the next 10 days with a direct 
mail appeal highlighting some 
of Bayh's statements GOP 
loyalists might find offensive. 
Hogsett said he hopes "to use 

the debate as a springboard" that will both define issues for the fall campaign and drum up ·interest in the race among vol­unteers and financial donors. 
"I think the enthusiasm as 

evidenced by calls coming into 
our office and people stopping 
by has just been enormous," 
Airbus 
continued from page 3 
part because an F-14 had flown 
toward another U.S. warship, 
the USS Halsey, on July 2 as 
the Halsey was in the strait. 
Despite the mistakes, Navy 

investigators concluded that 
Rogers had acted to protect his 
ship and recommended no 
punitive actions. 
"There was no culpable or 

willful negligence," said 
Fogarty. Rogers ''was protect­
ing his ship" and was aware of 
the example of the USS stark. 
That was the Navy frigate hit 

by an Iraqi missile on May 17, 
1987, killing 37 U.S. seamen. 
Stark officers were disciplined 
for not protecting their ship. 
Legislators refused to 

criticize Rogers or the other of­
ficers. 
"I believe this was a tragic mistake," said Sen. James Ex­on, while Sen. John Warner, a former secretary of the Navy, -said Rogers acted correctly in trying to protect his ship. 
"The easiest thing any of us 

can do is second-guess, and 
that's not what we want to do," 
said Sen. Edward Kennedy. 
The incident occurred the 

first time the Vincennes had 
been in combat, but the ship's 
crew had been properly 
trained, Fogarty said. 
But the stress of combat can­

not be simulated in any train­
ing, he noted. "Unless you get 
shot at, you're not trained in 
combat." 
The Vincennes was not 

protected U.S. AWACS 
airplanes flying overhead, but 
the tracking planes wouldn't 
have made any difference, 
Fogarty said, because they 
would have received the same 
electronic information as the 
Vincennes. 
said Hogsett. "Clearly, there's a feeling among people that Evan did very well." 
McDaniel said he also had received "a lot of positive com­ments." He also was satisfied that news analyses generally proclaimed the debate a spirited draw. 
Republicans will be conduct­ing a poll soon that will help gauge support in the post­debate climate, state GOP chairman Gordon Durnil said. Hogsett said Democrats also plan to poll soon to see if inde­pendent voters are starting to choose sides after the debate. ­
The most recent independent polling conducted by The In­dianapolis Star showed Bayh enjoyed a 6 percentage point lead over Mutz in late August. Earlier polls gav.e Bayh a double-digit margin. 
Bayh said Thursday that a poll taken by his campaign a week after the Star poll showed him with an 8-to 10-point lead. He declined to give further details on the results. 
The two candidates declined to get involved in the post­debate speculation about who won or who lost in the debate sponsored by the Associated Press Managing Editors and AP broadcasters. 
Mutz said he was "very pleased with my perfor­mance," but added he would like to debate again closer to the election. "I still have some good shots left," said Mutz, who frequently criticized Bayh for a lack of experience. 
package.
You nAed the 


For Fast Service Call (219) 289-6332 


Two swimmers climb onto the dock in St. Joseph's been outdoors enjoying the last few days of warm lake for a rest. Like these two, many students have and sunny weather. 
Security Beat 

sometime prior to 4:45 p.m. on 9/2.The
SEPTEMBER 6 

damage estimate is unknown. 
1 p.m. Security responded to a minor 
SEPTEMBER 7

accident in Decio parking circle.No one was injured and damage estimates are 2:42 p.m. A Saint Mary's student unknown. reported that her calculator was stolen 
12:45 p.m. A University employee outside Gate 10 of the JACC sometime reported that her vehicle was struck during the day on 9/1. Her loss is while it was parked near Sacred Heart estimated at $75. 
Church. The hit and run· occurred 5:34 p.m. Security received a call from a resident of Dillon Hall regarding two suspicious persons in the area of the Dillon Hall bicycle racks. When Security arrived at Dillon, one suspect was detained and the other fled on foot. Security pursued and apprehended the suspect. Both bikes were recovered and the suspects were taken to the Security Department for questioning and were later transported to St. Joseph County JaiL 
what it's worth, it's a trip that could save your life. 
-
NOTRE DAME AGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL 
From your & Friends in 

The Helsman Trophy of Notre Dame Football Coverage 
calcium. You need the vitamins. You love the taste. 
What you can live without are the fat and cho­lesterol that come with the 
That's why low­fat dairy products should be at the top of your list. 
If you'd like to learn more ways to lower your cho­lesterol without lowering your expectations, come in during American Heart's Food Festival, Sept. 11-17. For 
• 20 Action-Packed Issues a Year 
• Insightful Editorials 
• Coaching Features 
• Football Recruiting 
• Player Profiles 
• Game Reports 
• Game Previews 
• NO History 
• Spring Reports 
• Basketball 
• NO Sports 

Yes, I want my ticket to the Fighting Irish, I have enclosed S29.95 for 20 issues. Blue & Gold Illustrated 120 W. LaSalle, Suite 601 • Soutb Bend, IN 46601 • (219) 239-6332 
0  MasterCard  0  Visa  0  Check Enclosed  0  Bill Me  
D  If you are a c urrent s ubsc riber, please check  this  box.  OBS  
CARD#  EXP. DATE  

NAME 
ADDRESS 
CITY/STATE/ZIP 
Now entering our 8th year! 
Notre Dame Football at its best -weekly during the football season and monthly during the off­season for just $29.95 -a full 25% off the newsstand price! 
Blue & Gold Illustrated 
offers an unconditional money back guarantee 


------------------~----~---------------------~~~~----------­
Viewpoint

Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 page 11 
Alumni must respect rights of students 
You have probably already seen them around. Some were dressed in the usual "Notre Dame plaid." Some were not. No matter, they are still ornery. They are still Alumni. 
Rob Hennig 
guest column 

Now I am not one to condemn the 80,000-plus graduates of Notre Dame just because they graduated. Most of these are honest, decent and polite folk for whom I have the greatest respect. My ire is directed toward a much smaller group. For as in every barrel of apples, one or two are bound to be rotten, in every hundred or so alums one or two are bound to believe that they have not yet graduated and are entitled to do whatever they want while they are here. 
The University of Notre Dame does not shut down the Friday before home football weekends. As a university, the first priority we must have is educa­tion. Frankly, thousands of alumni con­gregating everywhere on campus inter­fere with that mission. I tried studying on the thirteenth floor of the library one Friday before a home game, and it was impossible. There must have been several hundred people walking around the floor during the course of the after­noon. All of them were mindless that they were in a library and that other people were trying to study. 
But that's not the least of it. Alumni see fit to go visit old dormitories, bar­ging into "their" rooms· to remember the "good old days". Besides the inva­sion of privacy this causes, it is just plain rude. The women of Notre Dame could speak with more reason. Parietal hours do not seem to deter our sen­timentally attached, older comrades. 
I could even tolerate all else, except for one thing: Alcohol. The University has a very explicit alcohol policy. No alcohol is to be consumed in public places around campus. Almost without exception, every alumnus I see is flaunting that policy. Open beer cans seem to be glued in the hands of every old man walking around campus, just as surely as a bag from the bookstore. 
When Campus Security tries to remove kegs from tailgaters out on the fields, you should hear the howls given out. We all know that kegs are illegal on campus property. If a student party were to have one, the keg would not only be removed, but a pretty hefty fine would be given out as well. Unfortun­ately, our older, pre-Alcohol Policy brethren are outraged by such an oc­curence happening to them. Alumni who think that they can flout University policy just because they are alumni are not only misguided but also down-right wrong. It is unfair to me and every one else who is trying to build a community of scholars working and living together in justice and fairness. 
Yes, some alumni donate money. Some donate large sums of money. So what? Monetary donations to Notre Dame do not give an individual special privileges to disobey policies and obstruct the normal functions of the University . I donate quite a lot of money to Notre Dame every semester; does that mean I can do whatever I want? 
Yes, some alumni come back only once or twice a year. I guess then we are supposed to make exceptions for them. Are we supposed to say, "You can do whatever you want because your only going to be here for a short time?'' 
Yes, some are clearly not intending to offend anyone. I never intend to of­fend anyone either. It just happens be­cause no one ever thought to gently tell all these "loyal sons" of Notre Dame that they are visiting at this University. If you want to bring the wife and kids around campus, fine. Just please be mindful that some of us students are trying to get to class. 

Notre Dame, as and educational in­stitution, is intended for the well being of students. Alumni can and do serve a positive role. But alumni do not super­cede students in importance. We can and should accommodate our wonder­ful graduates when they come back to visit. But they must remember that Notre Dame is not theirs for the taking. 
This is the first of seven home football weekends. It might be all right just to let these things slide by us. Surely we can put up with seven weekends of being inconvenienced. But to do so would mean that we would be glancing away from something that should be faced. We would be perpetuating more than an injustice. We would be facilitat­ing a myth that these balding graduatess have a greater role to play here than the students. They do not. They should not. If the administration has maintained this attitude, it is time to change it. 
Alumni, whatever else they may be, are guests at Notre Dame. If they are part of this Notre Dame family, then they are out-of-town relatives. If every alumnus acted like that, maybe every­one would be a whole lot better off. 
Rob Hennig is a senior economics major and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
P.O. Box Q 

NO community should exude class 
Dear Editor: 
This Saturday, Sept. 10, Notre Dame begins the 101st year of intercollegiate football. This tradition at Notre Dame has truly been a key to what is certainly an American sports phenomenon. 
Those of us who are privileged to par­ticipate in the 1988 season as members of the Notre Dame community are reminded of the tremendous legacy of spirit and hospitality passed on to us by generations past. Our claim in 1988 to proclaim that "We are N.D." carries with it a multitude of responsibilities. 
Spirit at Notre Dame is a given. Our support of the team this season requires all of us to be caught up "In the Spirit." 
Spirit at Notre Dame also entails hospitality. It is a part of life here that we treat those visiting us as welcomed guests. Without compromising our standards, we encourage our visitors 
Doonesbury 
to share in the Notre Dame spirit. 
Spirit at Notre Dame entails class. In athletics, class is rooted in sports­manship and hospitality. 
In accepting responsibility for the legacy of the Notre Dame spirit, we all need to be mindful of the following: 
First, going on the field can be dan­gerous and counterproductive to the team. People can be injured and the team penalized. 
Second, if we choose to abuse alcohol, we run the risk of serious harm to our­selves and others. Let us all abide by the law and policies governing the use of alcohol at Notre Dame. 
And third, the team needs our sup­port. In giving our best, let us refrain from activities in the stands that could be injurious to others, disruptive in the stadium, or that could impede the prog­ress of the game. 
Please join with me in giving your best effort to support the 1988 Fighting Irish team. Let us do so continuing the 
N.D. legacy of class, hospitality, and good will. Go Irish; Beat Michigan (again)! 
Rev. David T. Tyson, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs Sept. 7, 1988
• k f
CaptalnS as Or Ood Conduct
Q 
Dear Editor: 
The 1988 football season begins this weekend against Michigan. We, along with Coach Holtz and the rest of the coaching staff and players, are looking forward to it with great anticipation. 
If there's one thing Coach Holtz stresses to us above all else, it's the importance of representing Notre Dame with class and distinction any time we're on the football field. Win or lose, we'll play hard for 60 minutes and make Irish fans everywhere proud of the way in which we conduct ourselves. 
With nearly60,000fans in the stadium this weekend --and millions more 

students also will represent the Univer­sity in a first-class manner. Please refrain from bringing alcohol into the stadium, from passing students up through the stands, from throwing anything onto the field, and from en­tering the playing field before, during, or after the game. 
We began a tradition last year of saluting the student body after every Notre Dame victory --and we plan to continue that tradition this fall. No visiting team emerged victorious from Notre Dame stadium last year --and we plan to continue that part of the tradi­tion as well. 
The night of September 10 promises to be an exciting one for all of us. Let's all work together to make that night a first-class experience for everyone in­volved. 
Ned Bolcar Mark Green Andy Heck 1988 Football Captains 

watching on television --we hope you ras::...____________se_p_t_._7_,_19_8--,8 
Garry Trudeau 
I f)f;f;Pt..Y R&SCNT

Ime 8/J.CKGROUW CH£0<..• 
I513RVW

OKAY, t£T'5 
7HAT ATTACK ON I NE3V/!3R.
HONORABt-Y
I APOW6/ZE IF 

5TAFU" WITH 
PUU THe MIUIONS OF LAilJ A 
IN 7H/3 NA­

YOUR 513R­
50/rl& OF THES& I 
ANY M&N ANlJWOM&N HANP
TIONA~
QJJESTIONS steM 

V!C&~RIJ... 
5TRJNG5 WHO fliON'T F/..C& ON H/!3R. 1
GUARJJ
PeRSONA/.., STANO. 
TOG~T 7lJ CANAlJA, ANP

I fOR SIX 
/ IN-z OAMN 5UF?e /?ION'T

u~~~~---\ OAN, 8IfT FIR£ 
Y8ARf31 
HAV8 AWAYl 
\. 

8URN THE-FLAG.' 7DA51<. 
~
7HCM. 
~ 
\'-­
""' 

Quote of the Day 
"The most loyal support a coach can have--support he should cherish a n d hold--should come from the student body." 
Knute Rockne 1888-1931 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of ttle University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either insmution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the ln1ldlt Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members C1l 1118 community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is enooufaged. 
Edltoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller ..............................•........... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager. . ..... Marga Bruns Saint Mary"s Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1 !166 


W arning! Stop. This article is devoted to  
the tradition of tailgating and contains  
explicit references to alcoholic beverages, so  
if you are under 21 please refrain from reading or even glancing at the rest of this  SCREW YOUR NAVEL  
article.  1 oz. vodka  
Notre Dame begins its challenging 1988 Tailgating Season tomorrow afternoon some time before the Michigan game. The Michigan Tailgater promises to be a rigorous test for the Irish as some of the  1 oz. Peach Schnapps orange juice Put two or three ice cubes in a glass. Add vodka and schnapps and fill glass with or­ange juice.  
HOT PANTS  festivities may last as long as eight hours.  
1 1!.2 oz. tequila · 1!.2 oz. Peppermint Schnapps 1 1!.2 tbsp. grapefruit juice 1 tsp. powdered sugar Shake with ice cubes and pour into salt rimmed glass.  AP (American Partiers) pre-seasonpolls ranked the Irish #12 with the Wol­verines at#9. Note that this ranking is only for tailgating, because unfortunately the Irish couldn't even make it into the top 100 list of party schools. But then again, would  QUICK VEGGIE DIP 1 package Knorr's vegetable soup mix 1 pint sour cream Fold vegetable soup mix into sour cream, and let stand at least one hour before ser­ 
you want to go to Miami?  ving with chips. For quick French Onion  
SPICY SALSA DIP  dip, substitute onion soup mix.  
The Irish are favored with pleasant wea­ 
6 diced tomatoes with juice1 tsp. salt  ther predictions and a home field advan­tage m the contest against Michigan. Spe­ Add vodka and fill glass with apple juice.  
1!.2 cup of white onion  cial  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  
3 limes  following "all-American" hopefuls:  
3-5 serrano or California peppers  
Mix all ingredients together except for pep­pers. Add peppers to taste. 5 peppers  HOMEMADE WINE COOLER  
very spicy. Serve with nacho chips.  3 oz. white wine  
lemon-lime soda  
orange soda  
Damon's lacks a little spice  orange and lemon slices Pour wine into wine glass with ice cubes. Fill with equal amounts of orange and lemon-lime soda. Garnish with lemon and  
orange slices.  
MARK MCLAUGHLIN  becue chicken and ribs  of ground sirloin. Although it  
MATT GALLAGHER  ($10.25) and prime rib and  was a bit undercooked, the  
accent writers amon's: The Place for DRibs, provides a basic  shrimp ($12.95). We started with a half loaf of "Damon's Famous Onion  meat was of the finest quality. It is one of the best burgers one can find in South  TOUCHDOWN  
fare of good, properly cooked  Rings"($1.95). I'm not sure  Bend.  (LONG ISLAND ICED TEA)  
ribs and other barbecued  who decides how much a half­ The fries which came with  
food, but at a price that  loaf is, but he sure overes­ both meals were soggy and  Egual parts:  
might scare away some stu­ timated when he got to  quite disappointing. It seemed  rum  
dents.  Damon's. It was huge! A full  almost as if they weren't  gin  
Located on U.S. 3];33 North  loaf could probably feed a  cooked. The applesauce was  vodka  
about ten minutes from  family of four. As it was, we  too thick for either of our  triple sec  
campus and across from,  were quite full when the main  tastes.  lemon juice  
Azar's, Damon's has a pleas­ course came. If you're watch­ The service was less than  orange juice  
ant, if somewhat generic, set­ ing your cholesterol, we warn  could be hoped for, especially  Mix in a highball glass over ice and add a  
ting, complete with plastic  you away from the onion  considering the price paid.  dash of cola.  
tablecloths and loud, piped-in  rings. They're very good, but  We dined at 4 in the aftPr­ 
Muzak.  Damon's does pro­ they're very fried. And make  noon, hardly the dinner rush.  
vide a basket on the table,  sure that you have plenty of  Although the delivery of food  
filled with extra napkins and  friends along to eat them.  was speedy enough, plates  IRISH WHISKEY  
handi-wipes, which is clutch  For the main course one of  were not removed until we  
in a barbecue joint. They also  us ordered the shrimp and  were finished with the entire  1!.2 tsp. triple sec  
don't call spicy food "bar-b­ ribs platter. At $12.25 it was a  meal. This got a bit messy  V4 tsp. marachino  
q"--another good sign.  little pricey, but there was  towards the end of the main  2 oz. Irish whiskey  
plenty of food and the ribs  course, as we had to juggle  Stir with ice and pour mto a  
The menu's depth was a bit  were excellent. The meat  dishes, bread plates, onion  cocktail glass.  
lacking. Ribs are obviously  came right off the bone,  loaf and several glasses.  
the specialty of the house  saving the hours of cutting  
 
(hence the name). Covered  and tearing common with less  The dessert tray brought to  
with barbecue sauce, they are  well cooked ribs. The bar­ us looked excellent, but by  
available in both regular  beque sauce was somewhat  that point we were too stuffed  
($9.95) and full-rack ($11.95)  bland, but had a pleasant  to try the chocolate mousse  
 
sizes. In addition to the ribs,  flavor. Only five shrimp were  or carrot cake.  
Damon's offers barbecue  provided (as opposed to a  Damon's may not be the  
 
chicken ($7.95), pork loin  half rack of ribs) but they  best restaurant in town, but if  
($10.95), and a variety of  were smothered in sauce and  you don't like very spicy bar­ 
steaks (from $9.95 to $12.95).  cooked properly.  beque and have come into  
Combination platters are  We also ordered a "Damon  some money recently, you  
also offered, such as bar­ Burger"($4.95), a half-pound  might give a try.  


----·~---~---..---~---~---------· --~----­
AILG 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 

t(ilt. '100'~ 3) 0\lMB n.IO':!E l'J AAWR£ W!:X;Rf.Ms ~00 ?Ra~\.'l N81t.~ WIU. 1:£ lt\E. D£Ai\\ at M~ 'lET 1\IC'JG\\T N?I::JJI l-¥>'tl 1\ ~ARROW'S SMN-I.B<. 
SllE N-lD GRE/>..IER Mr..t-lE\l'lER.ABI\..1\'( I'S 
f.N flD~A~T~GE IN FIEMTING Off BIG 
CROWS. 


at 


Time  8:12p.m. EST  
TV & Radio  CBS national telecast (Brent Musburger, Pat Haden) Mutual Radio Network  
(Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna)  
WVFI-AM 640  
Tickets  Game is sold out  
(capacity 59,075)  
AP Rankings  Michigan 9th Notre Dame 13th  
Series  Michigan leads, 13-6 First game in 1887  
Last Game  September 12, 1987  

Notre Dame 26, Michigan 7 

From tight end to tackle: it's one Heck of a move 

Tri-captain takes to trenches 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Offensive tackle may not be the most glamorous position on the football field, but Irish tri-captain Andy Heck is more 
l 
than happy to be there this season. 
"I welcomed the switch," said the former Irish tight end from Annandale, Va. "I feel I can be a better offensive tackle than tight end, and at the same 
time I have an opportunity to help the team." 
The move to the interior part of the line did mean Heck would have to en­dure one busy summer. Heck played last year at 248 pounds, which is heavy enough for a tight end but doesn't quite cut it for an offensive guard in big-time college football. 
"I was able to put on 25 to 30 pounds from a lot of meals and hard work in the weight room," said Heck, who spent four days a week lifting weights for two­and-a-half hours. "I got up to about 284, but through two-a-days, I've lost about 12 to 14 pounds. 

"I wasn't interested in putting on 30 pounds of fat," continued Heck. "I managed to keep my body fat percentage down by doing a full com­plete workout." 
As tough as the summer may have been for Heck, fall drills have been even more demanding for him and the rest of the offensive line. Heck and junior guard Tim Grunhard are the only linemen with any real starting experi­ence replacing a unit that sported four fifth-year seniors last season. 
Tackle Dean Brown, center Mike Heldt and guard Winston Sandri, who have a combined total of just over one full game's experience, comprise the rest of an offensive line that has received more than its share of pre­season criticism. 
The line will have its trial by fire Sat­urday night at Notre Dame Stadium when it goes up against a Michigan de­fensive front which is regarded as one of the best in the country and includes Outland Trophy candidate ,Mark Mes­sner. 
"It's a great test because they have Mark Messner, who's supposed to be the best defensive lineman in the country," said Heck. "It'll show how ready we are. We're going to face de­fensive lines all year long as good as or better than Michigan's, so it's not a case of being more up for them than anybody else." 
Heck's confidence shows just how far he has come since the spring drills, when he was in the unusual position of trying to lead as a team captain while also learning a new position. 
"It was kind of difficult, because as captain you want to be the guy to set the example and be vocal," said Heck. "But I was practicing like a freshman all over again, making mistakes. 
"Now coming into the fall, I've got a firm grasp on the position," continued Heck, who shares the role of team cap­tain' with linebacker Ned Bolcar and tailback Mark Green. "I can do the thirigs I want to do on the team, like leading by example." 
Heck gives first-year offensive line coach Joe Moore much of the credit for his progress at tackle. Moore is working with the tackles and tight ends, while third-year Irish assistant Tony Yelovich directs the guards and centers. 
"He really has stressed just being positive, -and then any player will be able to go as far as his mind lets him go in terms of how great a player he wants to be," said Heck. "He's really worked a lot with me as far as getting good hand position and leverage. He really is a good teacher. He knows how to be a winner not only in football, but in life." 
Moore is quick to return the compli­ment. 
"I can see that he's done the things he has to do to get better," said Moore a former Pitt and Temple assistant wh~ has coa?hed NFL stars Jimbo Covert, Russ Gnmm and Mark May. "He came into camp thinking he was a tackle. Now he is a tackle." 
And Heck is more than happy to be a tackle, even though he had his share of big plays as a tight end. Backing up Joel Williams his sophomore year, Heck scored a touchdown and caught a cru­cial two-point conversion pass in a 38-37 win over Southern California. 
Heck started every game at tight end last year, and although he caught just five passes, one was good for a touch­down against Alabama. 
But with players like Frank Jacobs, Rod West and Derek Brown ready to step in at tight end, the team obviously needed Heck more at tackle, where both of last year's starters were lost to graduation. 
"I felt great being part of a very good offensive line and at the same time scoring touchdowns against teams like Southern Cal and Alabama," said Heck. "We could afford the luxury of moving because we have talented tight ends in Frank Jacobs and Rod West and now we have the addition of a great player _like Derek Brown. Those guys can brmg more to the position than I could." 
Theresa Kelly contributed to this story. 

···:-.}~"··~ t~, · 
..-. e,-.,. 
$' ... ..,
-:*''« ., ,,­
,_ ·····-...··l 
-
' ....... ~-. -~(.·11M~:
...~ '~·-.J .,. . -·~.y r·: -~ '1t P~~
\ · .r 1' ',_, -. ._-••• r-: 40:"': 
The Observer I Mike Ury 

Andy Heck will no longer be wearing No. 88 or catching passes for the Irish, as the senior trl-captaln changed both jerseys (No. 66) and positions (tackle) this year. 
_Sports Heritage Collection ready for unveiling at JACC 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will get a look at the future Saturday night in the Stadium, but the past will be on display forever in the Joyce Athletic and Convoation Center Concourse. _ 
The Notre Dame Monogram Club's Sports Heritage Collection, a museum of Irish trophies, photographs and memorabilia will be formally dedi­cated in ceremonies Saturday morning. 
Seven Reisman Trophies, 16 national football championships and 100 years of Irish athletic history will be honored at the reception, luncheon and dedica­tion ceremony prior to the Michigan. game Saturday night. 
"This project has been in the works for about four years," said Victoria VanPatten, a 1983 Notre Dame graduate who has been working on the Collection with the architectural firm of Brian Crumlish and Don Sporleder of South Bend. "The actual construc­tion began when Father Hesburgh was still president, so it's been a few years." 

The Heritage Collection has actually been a three-phase project. The first phase was the "Crown of Gold," which circles the ceiling above the exhibit and is a listing of the names of every monogram winner in every varsity sport in Notre Dame history. 
The second phase is the collection of photographs, trophies and memorabilia that lines the walls of the Concourse, located between the Arena and the Fieldhouse in the Joyce ACC. The concrete walls are now covered with panelling, and the oak and glass cases hold Notre Dame sports memorabilia. 
The third stage is not yet in operation, but it will consist of audio-video pre­sentations separated by decades. A projector will be push-button activated, 
see HERITAGE, page 3 
---~----------------­

page2 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
It is conceivable that there will. be some Wolverines with hurt pride jog­ging onto the field at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday night, remembering last year's Irish victory. 
It is also possible that some members of the Irish can recall a bitter one-point loss two years ago at the hands of the Wolverines. 
A combination of these and many other factors should produce a game not lacking in intensity. 
"Last year," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, "when we played at Michigan, we played error-free football for all intents and purposes, and Mic­higan had seven turnovers. But Bo (Schembechler, Michigan's head coa­ch) indicated he felt his squad had won the battle up front (on the line of scrim­mage). 
"I think statistically he can validate that. Their running backs averaged over five yards a rush and they really did a good job against our running game. So I thought that last year, even though we won the football game, we weren't necessarily a better team than Michigan, particularly on the lines. When you play Michigan, that's nor­mally where the game is won. That's going to be the key again this year." 
But this year, there won't be any Tim Brown, there won't be a single member of last year's starting offensive or de­fensive lines returning to start (except co-captain Andy Heck, who moves from tight end to offensive tackle), and the Irish can't expect another seven­turnover performance from a normally sound Schembechler offense. 
"I think this will be a vintage Bo Schembechler Michigan football team," said Holtz. "That's why we're excited, because we're going to be playing against one of the finest football teams in the entire country. Our foot­ball team has made tremendous prog­ress. I have great respect for the players, our chemistry is very good, and I think this football team will play exceptionally well." 
Notre Dame offense vs. Michigan defense 
If the game will be won or lost on the lines, the Irish are at a big disadvan­tage on paper. The Notre Dame offen­sive line, though improved of late, is vastly inexperienced. Starting guard Winston Sandri has never played in a college game and center Mike Heldt has 15 minutes of experience under his belt. Although Heck and guard ~im Grunhard had good fall workouts, they are changing positions entering this 
Irish Extra: 
season. Chemistry could be a problem under game conditions. · 
Tony Rice is the No. 1 quarterback, after turning in impressive spring and fall camps. 
"I think that when this year is over, if Tony Rice can stay healthy, Tony Rice will be an excellent quarterback,'' Holtz said. 
The well-stocked running back corps has been somewhat depleted by the day-to-day status of Tony Brooks and Anthony Johnson, but with Mark Green at tailback, Bra~ston Banks at fullback and Ricky Watters available for spot tailback duty, the running game still looks to be very strong. 
Watters' main responsibility will be at flanker, in the unenviable position of trying to live up to the genius of Tim Brown. 
"Ricky Watters is an extremely talented football player," said Holtz. "But if he tries to be another Tim 


The Game 

Brown, it would be impossible. We just want him to be Ricky Watters." · 
Steve Alaniz will start at split end, backed up by Ray Dumas and Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, who has recently been hobbled by a strained calf and a bruised shoulder. 
All-American and three-time All-Big Ten selection Mark Messner is back at defensive tackle as the all-time Mic­higan sack leader. He heads a Wol­verine defensive line whicl} Schem­bechler considers his main trump card. 
''The defensive line is probably the s_trength of our defense," said Schem­bechler. "We've. got some veterans back, and I expect us to show a better rush." 
John Hermann, Warde Manuel and Brent White are three upperclassmen who solidify a defensive line ranked third in the country by The Sporting News. 
If there is a weakness on the Mic-
The Observer 

higan defense it's at linebacker, where the Wolverines are deep but inexperi­enced. Outside of seniors Bobby Abrams (outside) and J. J. Grant anside), the rest of the Michigan linebacking corps has very limited playing time under its belt. 
Three starters in last year's Wol­verine defensive secondary graduated, leaving Michigan with its leading inter­ceptor, senior David Arnold, and a transplanted wide receiver, Tripp Wei­bourne, to handle the corners. Otis Wil­liams and Vada Murray will try to fill the safety sp,_Qts after limited previous experience. -' 
Michigan offense vs. Notre Dame defense 
Demetrius Brown probably will return to pilot the Wolverine attack, despite Schembechler's hedging on naming a starter. Brown's experience, running ability and cannon-like arm should give the senior the nod over likely candidates Wilbur Odom and Mi­chael Taylor. 
"Bo keeps talking about all these problems he has at quarterback," said Holtz. "I don't know if I see any prob­lems at all. Demetrius Brown is a fine quarterback, and if Hle starting quar­terback Saturday is someone who Bo feels is better than him, we'll be facing a tremendous quarterback. If he says he has problems at quarterback, it's just so he can say he has a problem somewhere." 
With Jamie Morris' graduation, the Wolverines counter at tailback with three juniors who will compete for time: Tracy Williams, Allen Jefferson and Tony Boles. Jefferson has the most varsity play of the three, seeing action in five games last year. Returning starter Jarrod Bunch looks to remain the starting fullback. The junior was the team's second leading rusher be­hind Morris last year. Fellow junior Chris Horn will see a lot of action as· an experienced backup. 
Michigan has one of the deepest and most effective receiving corps in the nation. Three-year starter John Kolesar, the team's all-time leader in yards per catch, returns at flanker. Kolesar, teamed with speedy juniors Chris Calloway and Greg McMurtry (the Wolverines' leading receiver last year), leads a talented and ·experienced group against Notre Dame's veteran secondary. 
But the real story behind Michigan's 

success lies in its offensive line, ranked 
tops in the country by The Sporting 
News. Five starters return from last 
year, including seniors Tom Dohring, 
see GAME, page 3 




~----~~­

-·
Irish Extra 

The Observer page 3 
-

HERITAGE 
continued from page 1 
and the presentation will be projected onto a screen across the room from the case holding that decade's collection. 
"All of this was sort of a collabora­tive, cooperative project," VanPatten said. "We've had architects, research­ers and alumni all working to get this going." 
Notre Dame alumni Ray Sobota, Leo Barnhorst (Irish basketball player, 1946-9) and Joe Gasparilla were in­strumental in making the idea a reality. Gasparilla, an architect, created the in­itial design proposal. 
All seven Heisman Trophies w<ln by Notre Dame football players will be on display at the Saturday's ceremony. Winners John Lujack (1947), Angelo Bertelli 0943), Leon Hart (1949) and John Lattner (1953) will be at tlie dedication. 
Guest speakers Saturday include Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., Notre Dame executive vice-president, Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal, 1966 Irish football captian Jim Lynch and Lujack. 
Other former Irish athletic stars at the ceremony will be Creighton Miller, Moose Krause, John Paxson, Tom Cle­ments, Vagas Ferguson and Walt Patulski. 
-


.... 
Pictured here are just a few of the memories on display In the Notre Dame Monogram Club's Sports Heritage Collection 
Marv Spence, the Irish· secondary remains solid behind the experience of
GAME 

Stan Smagala, D'Juan · Francisco,
continued from page 1 

Corny Southall, and George Streeter. Mike Husar, David Chester and Dean Todd Lyght and Pat Terrell are capable Dingman. backups, and Holtz expects all six to 
Another senior, center John Vitale, see time during Saturday night's game. anchors the line and last year was All­The Irish have a completely 
....

Big Ten and an All-America honorable revamped defensive line that must take mention. on a Wolverine offensive line consid­
A key cog in Michigan's offensive is ered one of the best in the country. Chris its placekicker, Mike Gillette, who is Zorich will start at nose tackle in his already the most proficient placekicker first participation in a college football in school's history. In three years, Gil­game. George Williams will start at one h:~tte has kicked 39 field goals. tackle and Jeff Aim at the other. 
If Holtz was to admit to being happy Holtz has indicated that because it with one aspect of his team at this point, does not seem likely that senior Tom he would probably single out the Gorman will play much because of a defense, and, more specifically, the torn pectoral muscle, a true freshman, linebackers. Mirko Jurkovic, may also play in his 
"Defense has got to be the corner­first collegiate football game. stone of this football team," said Holtz. In this game especially, both Irish "It does have some question marks, but lines are going to have to turn tremen­one place where none of those question dous potential and youthful enthusiasm marks are is at the linebacker position. into top-notch, on-the-field efforts (Wes) Pritchett, (Ned) Bo1car, and against an experienced and exceptional (Mike) Stonebreaker are just excellent Michigan club to produce a repeat per­inside linebackers. They'll probably all formance of a year ago. · share equal time. If the Irish secondary is up to the task 
01,1r outside linebackers have good of stopping Michigan's potent passing experience. Andre Jones and Frank attack, the Wolverines should have a Starns will start and, of course, we'll tough time scoring against the Notre ­see a lot of Flash (Darrell) Gordon and Dame inner defense. But in order to Scott Kowalkowski. Both sets of move the ball against an experienced linebackers are extremely solid." defensive line, the Irish offensive 
With the graduation of defensive linemen will have to turn in the perfor­backfield stalwarts Brandy Wells and mances of their young careers. 

P 
22 Anthony Johnson FLANKER 12 Ricky Watters
13 Pat Eilers OUARTERB)\CK SPLITEND 
TIGHT END 9 Tony R1ce 80 Steve Alamz 
TACKLE (iD 8 Steve Belles TACKLE 82 Ray Dumas
88 Frank Jacobs 66 Andy Heck ~ 7 D B
P"D"''P" 'PAp p ? ~i '"~:: ,;;o p 
GUARD ~~~l~ Heldt GUARD 53 Winston Sandri 52 Tim Ryan 75 Tim Grunhard 68 George Marshall 56 Ted Healy 
Michigan Defense 

MIDDLE GUARD 94 T.J. Osman TACKLE 92Mike Evans TACKLE OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 79 Warde Manue~ 6Q Mark Messner 
85 Tim Williams 96 John Herrmann 88 Brent White OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 59 Alex Marshall 24 Bobby Abrams
t! t! t! t! t! 
45 Bnan Townsend 

CORNERBACK CORNERBACK 26 David Key INSIDE LINEBACKER~ ~INSIDE LINEBACKER 15 David Arnold 3 Tripp W~ne 95 J.J. Grant 30 John Milligan 20 Anthony Mitchell ~ ·37 Erick Anderson 55 Marc Spencer ~ 
STRONG SAFETY ~ 25 Rick Hassel
FREE SAFETY ~ 
3 Tripp Welborne {!IV 
{!IV 17 Otis Williams
27 Vada Murray 


TAILBACK
Michigan Offense 

33 Leroy Hoard 36 Tracy Williams 
FULLBACK 32 Jared Bunch 18 Chris Horn 
P
FLANKER 40 John Kolesar • 1 Greg McMurtry QUARTERBACK SPLITEND TIGHT END TACKLE ~ 6 Demetrius Brown 2 Chris Calloway 89 Derrick Walker 73 Tom Dohring ~ 9 Michael Taylor 1 Greg McMurtry 
80 Jeff Brow{\ 7~g f\en~ t\ t\~:~~~EHusar t\ 
rro rro rro rro rro rro50 Dave Weil rro 
CENTER GUARD 67 John Vitale GUARD 64 Dave Chester 69 Matt Elliott 78 Dean Dingman 62 Marc Ramirez 76 Michael Dames 
-
NOSE TACKLE 5o Chris Zorich Irish Defense TACKLE . . 96 Steve Roddy TACKLE 
69 George Williams DEFENSIVE END 74 Mirko Jurkovic 90 Jeff Aim DEFENSIVE END 30 Frank stams 92 Bryaslannery 7 Andre Jones 
. b b b

37 Scott Kowalkowski 38 Darrell Gordon
0
CORNERBACK CORNERBACK 32 D'Juan Francisco INSIDE LINEBACKERA AINSIDE LINEBACKER 29 Stan Smagala 1 Todd Lyg~ 34 Wes Pritchett 47 Ned Bolcar 20 Bob Satterfieldq=i 36 Donn Grimm 42 Mike Stonebreake'A 
FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 31 Corny Southall~ ~ 27 George Streeter 15 Pat Terrell {!V {!V 33 David Jandric 
-
page 4 

A bright night to remember for Faust and Irish 
By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 

They called it "A Night to Remem­ber." 
It was the 1982 season-opener which saw Gerry Faust's Irish football team upset arch-rival Michigan, 23-17. ABC televised the game nationally as 59,075 fans packed into the ''The House' That Rock Built" to witness a majestic game in Irish history. 
September 18, 1982 is remembered as 
the night the lights went on in Notre 
Dame Stadium. 

_... 
TIME REM.AININ<;
Time. 

. . ...
. . . .
Capsule .. .. . . . 
Musco Sports Lighting Inc. provided the massive bulbs (as they will again this year) that lighted the Stadium for the first time in its rich 53-year history. ABC also picked up the $50,000 tab, as the game had to be rescheduled to ac­comodate the national audience. 
At first, fans were astonished..Asso:. ciate Sports Information Director John Heisler vividly recalls the aura in the stadium that night. 
"It was a real phenomenon because nobody had ever seen anything like this," said Heisler. "Nobody really knew what to expect. How bright was it going to be? What's it going to be like out there? I think there Was a lot of interest in the game just from that standpoint." , 
The game generated electricity as well when the Irish jumped out to a 13-0 first-half lead. Irish fullback Larry Moriarty powered through the Wol­verine defense, amassing 90 yards and 
Irish Extra 


The lights shine on Notre Danie Stadium for the first time, over Michigan in 1982. when Head Coach Gerry Faust led the Irish to a 23-17 victory 
a touchdown in the first half. Junior tail­back Greg Bell could have made it a blowout when he smashed up the  struck back with his third field goal of the game, a 41-yarder in the third quar­ter. Then, on the next Notre Dame se­ back like it was glued to it,'' said Faust. In the closing minutes, Duerson  
middle from the Michigan 4-yard line but it was ruled that he fumbled the ball on a controversial play. "His knee touched, his body touched, he rolled over and it was not until he completely rolled over that the ball came out," demanded Faust.  ries, junior quarterback Blair Kiel befuddled the Wolverine defense by completing a few short passes to move the team downfield. Bell capped off the drive by plunging into the endzone from the 10-yard line. In the fourth quarter, the Wolverines  literally stole the show. With 2: 06 remaining and Michigan ball on the Irish 37, Smith connected with Vince Bean over the middle. But as he turned upfield, Duerson met him head-on and ~tole the ball from Johnson, securing an Irish victory.  
Nonetheless, the second half produced more blistering excitement as the Notre Dame fans taunted Mic­higan All-America receiver Anthony  pulled to within a touchdown on a wild broken play. Michigan quarterback Steve Smith threw a pass over the middle to receiver Gilvanni Johnson.  1 "This was my .best win at Notre ·Dame," said a joyous Faust after the game. "One game doesn't make or break a season, but it's sure a lot easier  
Carter. The fans chanted "Anthony, come out to play-ayy." And the fleet­ But the ball popped out of Johnson's hands as he was slammed by Irish de­ to get out of bed after the win.'' Faust's team ended that '82 season  
footed Irish nemesis did just that as he  fensive backs Dave Duerson and Stacey  with a sub-par 6-4-1 record. But if you  
caught a punt, split past two defenders and galloped 72 yards down the Mic­higan sideline for the score. Notre Dame kicker Mike Johnston  "I;oran. Out of nowhere, Michigan tail­back Rick Rogers scooped up the ball and ran all the way to the endzone. "The ball rolled right down Stacey's  ' ask Faust what victorious game he most remembers at Notre Dame, he'll probably mention the first Irish game under the lights.  

NOTRE DAME OFFENSE  NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  MICHIGAN OFFENSE  MICHIGAN DEFENSE  
SE QT QG  80 82 66 72 53  Steve Alaniz Ray Dumas Andy Heck Joe Allen Winston Sandrl  6-2 6-1 6-7 6-4 6-4  196 176 2n 268 253  Sr. Sr. Sr. So. So.  RE LT NT  30 37 69 74 50  Frank Starns Scott Kowalkowski George Williams Mirko Jurkovic Chris ;zorlch  6-4 6-2 6-3 6-5 6-1  237 226 282 270 260  Sr. So. So. Fr. So.  SE FL QT  2 1 40 1 74  Chris Calloway Greg McMurtry John Kolesar Greg McMurtry Mike Husar •  5-10 6-3 6-0 6-3 6-3  176 197 191 197 287  Jr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr.  OLB DT MG  85 59 79 96 94  Tim Williams Alex Marshall Warde Manuel John Herrmann T.J. Osman  6-4 6-4 6-5 6-5 6-3  237 235 262 267 263  Jr. So. Jr. Sr. Jr.  
c  68 55  George Marshall Mike Heldt  6-2 6-4  243 258  So. So.  RT  96 90  Steve Roddy Jeff Aim  6-2 6-7  237 246  Sr. Jr.  RG  50 64  Dave Weil Dave Chester  6-4 6-2  263 267  Sr. Sr.  DT  92 60  Mike Evans Mark Messner  6-4 6-3  233 244  So. Sr.  
TG  52 75 56  Tim Ryan Tim Grunhard Ted Healy  6-4 6-3 6-4  245 279 258  So. Jr. Jr.  DE  92 7 38  Bryan Flannery Andre Jones Darrell Gordon  6-3 6-4 6-3  249 215 214  Jr. So. Sr.  c  62 67 69  Marc Ramirez John Vitale Matt Elliott  6-2 6-1 6-4  271 273 250  Jr. Sr. So.  OLB  88 24 45  Brent White Bobby Abrams Brian Townsend  6-5 6-4 6-4  248 221 233  Sr. Sr. So.  
TT  71  Dean Brown  6-3  283  Jr.  ILB  34  Wes Pritchett  6-6  251  Sr.  LG  78  Dean Dingman  6-3  280  So.  ILB  95  J.J. Grant  6-1  234  Sr.  
73  Justin Hall  6-5  290  Fr.  36  Donn Grimm  6-2  224  So.  76  Michael Dames  .  6-2  268  Sr.  37  Erick.Anderson  6-3  215  So.  
- TE. QB FB TB FL PK  88 86 9 8 39 22 24 40 12 13 2  Frank Jacobs Derek Brown Tony Rice Steve Belles Braxston. Banks Anthony Johnson Mark Green Tony Brooks Ricky Watters Pat Eilers Reggie Ho  6-5 6-7 6-1 6-4 6-3 6-0 6-0 6-2 6-2 5-11 5-5  234 235 198 211 211 225 184 218 201 197 135  So. Fr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Jr. Sr. So. So. Sr. Jr.  ·  ILB CB CB ss FS p  47 42 32 1 29 20 27 33 31 15 16  Ned Bolcar Mike Stonebreaker D'Juan Francisco Todd Lyght Stan Smagala Bob Satterfield George Streeter David Jandric Corny Southall Pat Terrell Jim Sexton  6-2 6-1 5-11 6-1 5-11 6-0 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-0 6-0  232 226 187 181 186 181 212 192 194 195 188  Sr. Jr. Sr. So. Jr. Sr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Jr. So.  ST TE QB FB TB PK  73 75 89 80 7 9 32 18 33 36 19  Tom Dohrlng Greg Skrepenak Derrick Walker Jeff Brown Demetrius Brown Michael Taylor Jarrod Bunch Chris Horn Leroy Hoard Tracy Williams Mike Gillette  6-7 6-8 6-2 6-4 6-1 6-0 6-2 6-0 6-0 6-0 6-1  2n 322 246 248 190 202 240 213 215 209 194  Jr. So. Sr. Sr. Sr. Sr. Jr. Jr. Jr. Jr. Sr.  ILB CB ss FS CB p  30 55 26 3 25 17 3 27 15 20 19  John Milligan Marc Spencer David Key Tripp Welborne Rick Hassel Otis Williams Tripp Welborne Vada Murray David Arnold Anthony Mitchell Mike Gillette  6-3 6-5 5-11 6-1 6-0 6-3 6-1 6-4 6-3 5-11 6-1  230 245 200 193 190 197 193 185 195 176 194  Jr. Jr. Jr. So. Sr. So. So. Jr. Sr. Sr. Sr.  
18  Billy Hackett  6-1  184  So.  14  Sean Connor  6-7  218  Sr.  16  Eduardo Azcona  5-11  185  Fr.  
~1  

-PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to 

,.


how each person does against the 
---spread. In other words, it isn't Marty Strasen Theresa Kelly Steve Megargee Pete Sklko 
Jane Shea Pat 
Murphy Andy Shannon enough to pick the winner of a given Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. Guest Celebrity Random Student game. The person must pick the 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 winner and give the underdog .000 .000 .000 .000 .000 .000 .000 points. Home team is in CAPS. (last week: 0-0-0) (last week: 0-0-0) (last week: 0-0-0) (last week: 0-0-Q) (last week: 0-0-0) (last week: 0-0-0) (last week: 0-0-0) 
Texas over BYU by 4 Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Cougars Cougars Longhorns Longhorns 
Washington over PURDUE by 12 Huskies Huskies Huskies Boilermakers Huskies Boilermakers Huskies MICHIGAN STATE over Rutgers by 17.5 Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans OHIO STATE over Syracuse by 2.5 Buckeyes Orangemen Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Orangemen Southern Cal over STANFORD by 13.5 Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojan;; Trojans Trojans Oklahoma over NORTH CAROLINA by 24 Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Tar Heels Sooners Penn State over VIRGINIA by 3 Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Cavaliers Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Indiana over RICE by 14 Owls Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Owls Hoosiers AUBURN over Kentucky by 15 Tigers Wildcats Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Wildcats Alabama over TEMPLE by 15 Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide FLORIDA STATE over So. Miss by 33 Seminoles Golden Eagles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles UCLA over Nebraska by 1 Cornhuskers Bruins Corn huskers Bruins Corn huskers Cornhuskers Bruins Air Force over SO STATE by 7.5 Falcons Aztecs Falcons Aztecs Falcons Aztecs Aztecs NOTRE DAME over Michigan by 2.5 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish .Irish Irish 


--~~----~~----~---~~~~-·-~~~~ 


TING 
IG 
DOUBLE CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES 
1 112 cups flour 
V4 tsp. baking soda 
1 c. butter or margarine, softened 
1 tsp. vanilla extract 
1 c. granulated sugar 
112 c. dark brown sugar 
1 egg 
113 c. unsweetened cocoa 
2 tbsp. milk 
1 c. chopped pecans or walnuts 
1 c. semisweet chocolate chips 
Optional ingredient: white chocolate chunks 
(1) 
Combine flour and baking soda and set aside. Cream butter and a<fd vanilla and sugars. Beat until fluffy. Beat in egg, then add cocoa and milk. 

(2) 
Mix in dry ingredients until blended. Fold in nuts and chips. Bake at 350 degreesfor 12-13 minutes. 


VIRGIN 
2 oz. vodka apple juice Put two or three cubes of ice in a glass. 
KEVIN WALSH accent writer 
W
oody Guthrie and Lead­belly (a.k.a. Huddie Led­better) are two early musical pioneers who you hear a lot about, but you rarely actually hear. Guthrie was a traveling minstrel who gained recogni­tion during the Depression for his traditional ballads and political orientation. Lead­


SEPTEMBER. MORN 
Equal parts: champagl?e orange JUice 
Serve chilled. 
is a collaboration of many artists who donated their time and talent to publicize the Smithsonian Institute's Folkways record label. Each of the artists on this aibum feels in some way indebted to one or the other of these two guys. From Bruce 
belly was a black folksinger Springsteen, whose Nebraska who took his cue from South­was a painstaking update of ern worksongs and popular Woody Guthrie's sound and dance songs. Both were sentiments, to Arlo Guthrie, deeply political and dis­Woody's son and the 60's enchanted with America. folksinger who sang "Alice's Both sang songs of despera­Restaurant" and "City of tion yet somehow found in New Orleans." their circumstances a ray of The album's strongest hope which Bruce Springsteen tracks show the depth and later called "a reason to range of possibility in these believe." songs without resorting to 
Folkways: A Vision Shared mere mimicry. Bruce Springsteen's two contribu­tions are on the opposite ends of this spectrum. "I Ain't Got No Home" is the simple acoustic strum-and-croak style that Springsteen is seeming more and more com­fortable in these days. 
"Vigilante Man," on the other hand, is an edgy paranoid workout with the E Street Band which rolls with the best of Springsteen's own rockers. In these two songs, Springsteen appears to be trying to repay the legacy he owes Guthrie. He does him­self and Guthrie justice. 
With Fishbone pushing him on, Little Richard really rips it up on "Rock Island Line" and proves what he is still capable of....U2's Christian heritage shines through on "Jesus Christ," their contribu­tion here. The Edge's distinc­tive guitar lines and Bono's propulsive vocals really lend weight to lines like "This song was written in New York City/Well if Jesus was to preach today/ What he preached in Galilee! They would lay Jesus Christ in his grave." Somehow U2 pulls the song off without appear­ing preachy or pompous. 


John Mellencamp's "Do Re Mi" is impressive in its Ap­palachian adaptation of Guthrie's style. Mellencamp's reading of the tale about im­migrants moving to Califor­nia, backed by his relaxed band including a fiddle and accordion, is as effective and impressive as any song on this album. Did this guy really sing "Hurts So Good"? 
Brian Wilson's bright ver­sion of the despairing "Good­night Irene" makes interest­ing ironic use of his trademark sunshiney har­monies since the song is about suicide. The song is an important historical antece­dent to Wilson's work with the Beach Boy's. The freewheelin' Bob Dylan is, next to Springsteen, the most obviously in debt to Guthrie. His solo reading of "Pretty Boy Floyd" is better than anything I've heard Dylan himself do for years. The song is the romanticized tale of the outlaw Pretty Boy Floyd and contains one of the loneliest harmonica solos put on record this decade. 
Not all the songs are as good as all those mentioned. Pete Seeger's version of 'This Land Is Your Land" for in­stnace is strangled and a little overblown, especially in the Everybody Sing! chorus at the end. It was probably a mistake putting many of the weak songs on the second side, but that is quibbling. As an update and a bulletin on an almost forgotten mode of musical expression, Folkways: A Vision Shared is a triumphant success. 
-
Etc.

_...__, 
pase 14 Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 
Domers out of sync with modern world? 
Ijust received a pin for 20 catch AIDS and asks why she fresh air to hear voluntarily practice a superstitious devo-Jones kids as sexual athletes? 
years service at Notre has sex without a condom, from them that they tion to the Virgin that should Some every year, I suppose, Dame. I began in Keenan in she answers: "Because respected the traditional have gone out of style with are that unwise. In Maine the fall of 1967 as assistant there's nothing like the ways. the Reformation? where I grew up, there's a rector, and I've been hanging feeling of flesh against flesh." Another lusty young bus-Notre Dame is such a tombstone that says: "For around in Campus Ministry All the young novelists band, father of a very young curious place. We have fifteen years, she kept her ever since. I was here in the depict the same kind of per-baby, told me the routines he cherished traditions that are virginity/Which is pretty late '40s as an undergraduate missiveness. The Bennington and his wife go through to completely out of sync with damned good for this and in the '50s as a graduate junior who wrote "Less Than keep her from getting preg-the modern world. Is it be-vicinity." Is this the way it is student. For nearly 20 sum-Zero" a couple of year.s ago nant again right away. He cause the place is so priest-now in the high schools of mers, I went to Manhattan as was the first one to shock me. made it sound funny, but in ridden, or is it because we America? a parish priest; for the past His protagonist, home in Cali-all seriousness, it isn't funny. more-or-less believe what I am an old-fashioned three years, I've spent my fornia from an Eastern school He wouldn't have appreciated Father Hesburgh told us last priest, anxious to keep kids summers at a parish in Lon-for the holidays, spends three a priest's telling him that the year in his farewell address? who rightfully consider them-don, England. weeks watching his peers decision to practice birth con-He said that although the selves grownups from ruining trol is a matter of conscience, Blessed Mother makes visits themselves, and I'm more whatever the Church's teach-to the shrines in her honor at than willing to give kids step-
Father Robert Griffin 
ing. I was edified to meet this Fatima, Lourdes and Knock, ping back from ruin a helping Catholic couple, old enough to she makes her home at Notre hand if they want it. Since be worldly-wise, who take the Dame. I'm not God, the best thing I 
Letters to a Lonely God 

... 
papal encyclical "Humanae can do is to warn the kids, Vitae" to heart, not simply Am I foolish to write about running through a field of because they feel obliged to Mary as though she were a rye, not to fall over the edge 
In other words, I wasn't destroying themselves with 
do so, but because they feel serious part of the Christian of the cliff at the end of theborn yesterday, and I've drugs, sex and perversions. 
in their hearts that the popes faith? Is it equally foolish to field. According to the latest spent a lot of time in strange A number of the fairly slick are right. encourage students to avoid books, I must be fighting aneighborhoods trying to find magazines take it for granted drugs and promiscuity? The losing battle. I happen toout what's happening. To tell that you're going to go to bed Notre Dame has just moral miracle at Notre Dame believe in Notre Dame stu­the truth, I'm less sure now with your date; the ethical finished re-gilding the dome is that so many students dents more than I believe in of what the score is than questions are how soon and which Our Lady uses as her practice their religion, even the books. Why should this bewhen I first started out. should you tell your date if footstool. Mary is important when it tells them to stay a lost generation? 
I've just begun to read a you have herpes, or worse? Is to us as the Seat of Wisdom; morally pure. Could it be true
novel by a hotshot young that the way it is in the real that is why we decorate her that despite appearances, God loves the real worldAmerican. His anti-heroine is world? statue, making her w:orth her Notre Dame students are like out there, even when it's a a college-age girl who hates it A fellow brought tears to weight in gold. She is a sym­the losers the young novelists jungle. God loves the groveswhen a guy begs her for oral my eyes when he explained bol of purity to thousands of write about: bright young of academe at Notre Dame, sex on the first date. "Lips that though he lived with his young Catholics who come people on their way to becom-and He gives us His grace toshould meet first," she girlfriend for two years, they here to school. 
ing sad young people, old or keep them from turning into thinks, "before we get down waited until marriage before dead before their time? a jungle. Is this an officialto other things." She tells her having sex. I had refrained At Notre Dame, God's mot-myth, or did I make it up? If
date that she's been with 36 from making any judgement her is a living symbol; you One of life's lovely secrets it's the latter, I'll leave quiet­ntho.. ands hPfnrp him. about their life together, and ca!! see that if you take a is that often the guys who
. She an her classmates pop ly; no need to offer me the ' -pills, catch diseases and fall I would not have thought head-count of the students pose as studs or the gals who numbing hemlock. If it's the
badly of them whatever they who make daily trips to the talk like tarts are closet vir-former, then the place is "in lust" with men--~11 in the 
did, because they are a Grotto. Does this mean that gins and proud of the fact. Do Camelot, and I'll stay here first three chapters. When her decent couple who try to do Domers are in love with some of them sacrifice their till death ana taxes c10se itdoctor tells her she could right. It was like a breath of anachronism, or that they virginity to keep up with the down. 

UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY 
BRINGS YOU THREE P'S TO ENJOY DURING THE MICHIGAN GAME WEEKEND: 

SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PIZZA-N.Y. STYLE SHEET PIZZA. OUR FULL SHEET IS LARGER THAN 2, 16 INCH ROUND PIZZAS, OR WE'LL CUT IT IN HALF, OR EVEN A QUARTER-WE'LL FILL ANY APPETITE. 
LOWEST PRICES EVERYDAY, PLUS 3 COUPON SPECIALS TO MAKE YOUR PRE OR POST GAME PARTY COMPLETE. 

FROM LOU'S IRISH DELIVERED TO BO SCHEMBECHLER'S WOLVERINES. THE FIGHTING IRISH WILL DELIVER THE PAIN, BUT WE'LL DELIVER THE BEST TO YOU, FAST, HOT, & FREE. 
18055 SR23 FOR FREE DELIVERY CALL: (BEHIND CAMPUSVIEW) 
OPEN AT NOON SATURDAY. OPEN UNTIL 3 a.m. FRIDAY & SATURDAY. (LOOK FOR OUR OTHER SPECIALS ON 
277 •8889 

THE BACK COVER OF THE NDSMC STUDENT BUSINESS DIRECTORY)
MATI HIGHBARGER-ND '89-0WNER 

COUPON COUPON COUPON
I I I
---------------..---------------·------------­
I HALF SHEET PIZZA I IRISH FOOTBALL SPECIAL I STUDY BREAK I 1 (larger than 16" round pizza} FULL SHEET PIZZA I BUY ANY y SHEET I
2

I WITH 3 TOPPINGS I WITH 2 TOPPINGS AND RECEIVE I I $9.99 II ONLY $14.99 II 4 COKES FREE!" I
I F or~:: DELIVERY (A' IAtAvS) VALID FOOTBALL WEEKEND • • 
~ L..VYI"\I FRIDAYS & SATURDAYS ONLY UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY
I I I
I 277-8889 I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY I 18055 S.R. 23, SOUTH BEND I 
I I GO JrDIS'Uf 277-8889 1 27~•8889 I
UNIVIRSITY PIZZA DELIVERY
1 1aass s.R. 23, souTH BEND n1, n. 18oss s.R. 23 ,. OFFER EXPIRES: Oct. 15, 1988 I OFFER VAUO: FOGfBALL Oct. 1'i. 1988 I OFFER E.XPIRES;.Oct, 15, 1988 I
L.

--------------------------------------------· 
Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 The Observer page 15 
De a...-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, .a:epts claaslfled -'-tialng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frid8y. n. a...-Saint u.rya offlce, located on the third floor of ~Conge Center, .a:eptaclallalfleda from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Frid8y. Oeedllne tor next-day clualfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda must
Classifieds be prepaid, eltlwr In penon or by mall. The charge 111 10 centa per five m..ctera per day. 
TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETORS TICKETS NEEDED BADLY. FAMILY Do you need student tickets'I Call 2753 Tracy-We've seen you at your LONG ISLAND STUDENTS NEEDED "' Japanese, Korean, Ger­COMING FOR PURDUE GAME. GA'S or 2775734 best:Happy t9thi-The Potato Heads LOND ISLAND STUDENTS
NOTICES 
LONG ISLAND STUDENTS leave name, number, & language TO PAY GOOD $$$. CALL TOM AT 2 Mich tixs lor sale 272·6306 T-1'11 make sure you won't be lonely this 01 course there's a Fall Elreak Bus Ill More X2742. time. I love you-S importantly, we'llleave alter the Irish blow TYPING AVAILABLE 
man, French & others call 654-3977 AND STUDENT TIX WANTED. WILLING 
Cocktail Waitresses Variety ol shiHs,will LET MV DAD SEE THE IRISH CRUSH away the Hurricanes and we'll ba back 287-4082 work around classes,good money. Apply MIGH. TIX FOR SALE CALL 2871 BEST HIS ALMA MATER-SELL ME 2 PURDUE The REAL big event this weekend: Tracy in time to witness the Falcons shot down. at Ramada Inn ol South Bend. OFFER GAs I CALL HOLLY x2956 Bleything's birthdayll We'll have lots to celebrate board,
on hence we'll be 1rnmarsed in party "spirits". WORDPROCESSING 
NEED 3 GA AIRFORCE tx call 2724 HELPII need ONE STUDENT PURDUE WELCOME BACK LAURIE, LISA AND Hurry, space is limited to 49 people. Cost· 237-1949 SEXI Now that I have your attention. I 
will offer ANYTHING but this lor 4 GA TICKET, am willing to trade one AIR THERESA' $80 round trip ($45 on11 way). Call Lou 
11ckets to the ND-Pur(don't) game Sept. NEED 2 GA's TO MIAMI & 2 GA's TO FORCE TICKET. Call Allison, 283·3736. THE QUAD LIVES ON. I'VE MISSED (x1433) ... ONLY A DORK WOULD FL VIII YOU. .
24. PLEASE HELPI Call Brett at 283· PENN STATE. WILL PAY BIG$$$$$$$$ TYPING 
2850. BRIAN 272·0291 HELPI I NEED 2 GA'S FOR M&D. $$$ LOVE, CHERYL PICKUP & DELIVERY 
NIC X2870 HEY, THE PRES. OF THE WINDSURF­277-7406 
ING CLUBCALL JOHN AT 283·3349. IN.D. Hockey is looking lor an organist HELPII NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S. WILL 

lor home hockey games. Candidates PAY BIG $. CALL 284·4099 OR 284-Michigan Tlx Avallablelll STAMFORDSTAMFORDSTAMFORD WANT TO JOIN THE CLUB. THANKS should be imaginative and spontaneous 5455 
Call only il you have $$$ to spend All my little staler Ia getting lor her CHRISTMAS SHOPPING WITH AVON 
with a good repertoire or popular music. and are willing to make a call to the U.ol alxteenth birthday Ia • plane ticket out MIKE BASILE: WHERE IS MY LETIER? 277-7406 
Interested? Call the hockey office 239· Need 2 Mich tix Stud or Ga Call Kevin M. Otherwise. forget it. Call Cameron to NO lor the Slllmlord game. She'a I'M WAITING BREATHLESSLY... 5227. 288·9303 O'Sas at 3346, and make a generous )uat dying to check out all those Calli. offer. Don't waste our timet bab.oa ... Please Help!!!/!!!/!/ Just need 1 LGF GOOD LUCK ON SATURDAVIIII • TEXTBOOKS--Bought & Sold--Books tor 
student ticket (or GA) call Chris x2773. THE YOUNGER ALL classes still ava1lablel UN· WANTED: One roommate lor Knott quad. JUST SELL ME YOUR TICKETS NEED 
--Tracy "Piaything"'s ex-xroomies. 4 lor PURDUE, MIAMI II 1771 GMltu HELP I NEED 2STANFORD AND 2 RICE BEAT ABLE PRICESIII Pandora's Books 
G.A.'sllllll CALL DIEDRA AT 277·1416 BORED AND PUKING FROM R.EM BOB Howard St .. Just off ol N.D. Ave. ph. FOR A CLUB EXPERIENCE LIKE NO O.D. brash keys & lethal drums seek
DESPERATELY Need 2·3 PENN STATE I NEED 2 MICH GAS CALL X2281 233-2342 TICKETSII Please call Heather at 277-ANVONEIIII I need ONE--only ONE-· OTHER JOIN THE NEWL V FORMED guitar & bass must be creative & skilled 3268 aHer 5 p.m. NEED GAS TO PURDUE AND S"(AN· ticket lor ANY gamell I won't be picky! TURKISH AWARENESS CLUB (TAG). wish to perform originals Fitz 1608 I Jeff 
WORD PROCESSING FORD CALL X2281 ONE ticket lor ANY garnet! x4053 ask NO WE ARE NOT KIDDING -JOIN IT 3136 No Heavy Metal 277·5014 
"I'm looking lor a new love, Baby, a new lor Colleen THANKS A MILLION IIIII NOW Ill CONTACT CENGIZ (1658) IN love." Help me in my search. II you're a PENN STATE G.A'S WANTED 508 GRACE, OUR ESTEEMED PRES. Happy Birthday Tom Hutton! Love, The 
relatively aHractive male with stimulating 2 TICKETS call John or leave name x Are. you looking lor Michigan tix? Will Girts in Badinland STILL LOOKING FOR 2 MICH GA'S. BIG 
conversation, RESPOND HERE. Thank 3068 trade 2 Mich. lor 2 Miami tixl call 2805 ORDER THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE lor MONEY! x2040 you lor your support. & ask lor Kellyanne. on-campus delivery-call 277·1859 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. Will pay good MARY KATE & KARA BUSH·QUAYLE 'B81 PHONE TOM 
ROOMATE WAMTED: $186.501'nonth e $ OR will trade ANY STUDENT TICKET DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA'S AND ORDER USA TODAY delivered to your I hope you're reedy lor thla w•kandl 1121 utilities. Call 288-6802 lor more inlorma· PLUS CASH lor them. Give me a calli 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. dorm door. CALL 277-1859 & Veal, you both will alwaya be t1on. Melissa X4341 or X4553. 
CALL ERIN AT 3757. PITA'all LOST· One roommate, Tracy "Plaything." 
HELPII need to get home next weekend. Mega_In Flanner Rewardll 
I NEED LOTS OF STUDENT TICKETS II you are going anywhere near Dd'troit PROMOTION. Must have good commu­Chris 277·7384 FclR THE PURDUE GAME. CALL JILL please give me a calL DAN 1182 nication skills. Call Steve 289·0715. 
WANT PERSON TO ASSIST IN MUSIC NEEDED 1 student or GA lor Mich call 
AT Xt302. I NEED 2 TIX TO MICHIGAN GAME. 

I need one ticket lor Stanford game. Call NEED NOT BE TOGETHER. GA'S OR NEED TO TRADE Tom X3285. Will pay big $ IllROLLOIll STUDENT TIX. MONEY IS NO OBJECT. 
1 Purdue GA lor 1 Stanford GA Call Welcome to NDI
LOST/FOUND 
CALL BRAD x4245 Carolyn X3799 I hope you aurvlve the wMkendl
GEORGE MICHAELS TIXII See him live !W. Call 2022 lastl 
FOR SALE 
DESPERATEIII I need 16, yes that's RICH RELATIVES NEED 4 GA'S FOR right, 1 6 GA's to the Penn St. game. Call ANY GAME ... HAVE AUTHORIZED '"SOPHOMORES'" WOULD LIKE TO TRADE 1 MICH STUD FOUND one Honda key in 0·2, some· an~ time --please! Nancy 4434 LARGE EXPENSE ACCOUNT CALL TIX FOR 1 MIAMI STUD TIX IF INTER·
Take a MOONLIGHT CRUISE on Lake
11me on Fnday II you can 1dent1ty the KIRSTIN X2630 ESTED CALL 284·5405
Michigan Thura. Sept 15, $15 (Irena.
model and color ot your car, you can 
NEED ONE STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX, Incl.) Sign ups M·W, J.5pm In Soph.
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONL V $90.00 PLUS 277·2944 KAREN $$$$ Claaa olllce (2nd A. LaFortune) Hur­LIVE MUSIC 10 PM-? 
have your key back. Don't be surpnsed AIR FORCE GAME 
11 there are a lew more m1les on your TICKETS NEEDED rylll Space Limited!
TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS
car Just k1dd1ng. Call B1ll at x1407. CALL BILL AT 3340 NO COVER
NEED STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICH. '"SOPHOMORES'"
TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE BOKO MARU
GAMEIII CALL MATI X2054

DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN· AT MCCORMICK'SFOUND: RETAINER IN SOUTH DINING 
TALS AT 272·5959 ANYTIME. 115 N. MICHIGANNEED 1 MICH TIX WILL TRADE 1 STUD CLUB TED is coming ... CLUB TED isHALL. ASK FOR CLAUDINE IN SOUTH 
DESPERATELY IN NEED OF ONE STU· DINING HALL. 
DOWNTOWNDENT TICKET FOR MY BROTHER FOR 

MIAMI CALL KURT X3626 coming ... CLUB TED is coming ... MICHIGAN GAME WILLING TO LOST,STOLEN Did you or perhaps your PAYIIIIIIIII CALL JOHN 2163 ASAP 
For Sale 1980 Honda Civic $600 call 288· 
9666 

NEED 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE; CALL SORRYII THEODORE'S WILL BE roommate acqu1re a slightly worn pe1r ol Take time lor prayer. Fnday, Sept. 16,
ROGELIO 277-4416 CLOSED SATURDAY NIGHT DUE TO
FOR SALE Apple lie Computer .vexter­6-11 p.m. A mini-retreat lor women. 1104
VASQUE MONTANA HIKING BOOTS I REALLY NEED 4 STANFORD STU· THE MICHIGAN GAME. WE WILL BE
nal disk, modem, mouse and all soHware N. Notre Dame Ave. (4 blocks S. or the OPEN FRIDAY FOR DANCING AND
(Brown with red laces, size tOO) on Stu· DENT TIX TWO STUDENT TIX FOR 
dent Activities N1ght at Stephen Center? needed. $750 OBO Call Bob at x1432 FOR 1 FOR PURDUE AND 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR circle) Light meal Included. Donations ac­
SALE TICKET MIAMI SUNDAY FOR NFL SPORTS VIEWING, 

II so, they are MINE and I WANT THEM alter 6pm for information. MV PARENTS WHO ARE COMING IN cepted. Call Sr. Arlene Kniola, CSC. 288· 
GAME. SOLD TO HIGHEST BIDDER. • . THOUGH. COME AND JOIN USII 

2665.

BACKlit II you do decide to keep them, CALL 3534 CECELIA FOR MY BIRTHDAY. PLEASE HELP ME 
ATTENTION LONG ISLANDERS
don't plan on weanng them on campus GET MY PRESENTSIIIIIIIIIIIII CALL THE UNDERGROUND
Round trip ticket from South Bend to L. L Tracy--we haven't been able to catch you 
lor a least the next 2 years. These boots FUTURE THIS JOHN X2163
MY AT SCHOOL Grand reopening Friday night aHer Pep

Airport leaving 1CYI5 and returning 1Qo23 HAPPY lor sale. Price negotiable call Sean. 272· 
are eas11y 1dent1l1ed, even at a distance, DEPENDS ON YOUR HELP long enough to say ... 19th B· 
Rally

and I will be looking lor them. Save your (SERIOUSLYI) DESPERATELY IN I WANT PITI TIX. WILL BUY OR TRADE DAYIIII ··"Knott" Gang 
PRESENTS real ROCK-n·ROLL at NO1089.
heaffh. turn them in to Lost and Found-No 
NEED OF 4 STANFORD GA'S. WILL FOR AIR FORCE.CALL X2831 
AUSTIN 

"""'JUNIORS'"" APPLE MACINTOSH 512K
questions asked. Any Information, call PAY OR TRADE AIR FORCE OR RICE 
Uve music from 9:00pm-1:30am 
HAVE YOU BEEN READING THE PER­WITH 400K EXTERNAL DRIVE AND 
Shawn 271·0758 substantial reward of­GA'S. CALL MAUREEN 284·5052. DESPERATE FOR TWO (2) PURDUE basement ol Grace Hall SONALS ABOUT THE SOPH MOON­
fered lor the recovery ol the boots andt>r GA TIX II PLEASE CALL Ill DAN X3286. 
THE UNDERGROUND
DIGITIZER:$700 LIGHT CRUISE TO CHICAGO? WELL,
the person who stole them. U OF MICH GA'S FOR SALE. BEST OF·
300BPS APPLE MODEM:$50 WE'RE GOING ON THE VERY SAME
FER. EVES CALL LIZ 284·5328. MICH. G.A. lor SALE""

-OR BEST OFFER· 
TRIPII JUNIOMOPH MOONLIGHT X2445
1 LOST My Intermediate Macro Book (the MICH. G.A. lor. SALE'"" STOPII i desperately need MICHIGAN CRUISE
blue one) 1n O'SHAG AM 117 or maybe NEED 2 GA'S TO EITHER PENN STATE MICH. G.A. lor SALE"" tickets-student or GA. I will buy 1 to 3 THURSDAY SEPT. 15 6:30-1:30 at the Library The first two chapters were OR RICE. MONEY ABSOLUTELY NO call Susy 284·5444 tickets, whatever Is available. PLEASE? 
$15 PER PERSON FIRST $40 BUYS Heather, 1297 
bonng but I'd like 11 back anyway. Bill PROBLEM. CALL 284'4404.ALSO WILL TODAYIIIIII SIGN-UPS MONDAY STARTING ATx~436 TRADE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S FOR 2
MICH TICKET 3PM IN THE CLASS OFFICE(2ND
MIAMI. 

CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED
Call Bob at 1521 FLOOR LAFORTUNE) YOU MAY SIGN
LOST IN NOH ~ MY STUDENT ID AND 2 MICH GA 30 YD LINE BEST OFFER CALL DAVE AT SHENANIGANS UP YOURSELF AND ONE OTHER
DETEX PLEASE CALL MARY BETH AT NEED 2 MICH TIX·STUD. OR GA. 284· CALL FRED AT 1663 277-1727 PERSON AT THAT TIME ONLY 1501825 5089
FLORIDA CONDO ON THE OCEAN SPACES AVAILABLE, SO GET 'niERE
Selling 1 MICH stud. 50 yd.line. $50 or CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED EARLVI ANY QUESTIONS? CALL THE

REWARD NEED 2 MICH TIX·STUD. OR GA. 277· best offer. Call II 2283 CALL DAVE AT SHANANIGANS
2 bedroom, 2 bath corner apartment on OFFICE AT 239-5117I LOST A GOLD SCAPULA AND 30" 1513.
the Atlantic Ocean in Pompano Beach, 277·1727
GOLD CHAIN THAT MY FATHER I NEED 3 GA's FOR PURDUE GAME.
Florida. New carpet, drapes, and fridge, CLUB 23
GAVE TO ME BEFORE HE DIED LAST $$$ FOR 1·4 MICH TICKETS. CALL $$$ IS NO OBJECT. PATRICK x4645
freshly painted, semi-furnished. PIZZA, SANDWICHES AND MIDDLEYEAR. IT IS OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VERY EARLY OR LATE ANYTIME 288· NEED 4 PURDUE GA'S. CALL MIKE AT
$139,900.1nterested, call (219) 283·2089 EASTERN CUISINE
VALUE I PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 1761. 1643. BIG MONEY! RliALLY, REALLY NEED or (305) 943·3088. 289-6623 CALL FOR OTHER DAILY SPECIALS!
A STANFORD G.A. OR STUDENT WILL 744 N. NOTRE DAME AVE.

Found · Male cat. Approx. 8 mos. ·1 yr. Will trade 2 Miami tickets lor 2 Michigan PAY$$$$$ CALL ANNE 4208 WEAR GREENIIIII 234-3541old. Call x3560 to ID. 
tix Interested? Call Jen x4354

FOR SALE: Tracy "Piaything'"s unused bed. Cheapll This Saturday the Irish take on Michigan
Need Football Tlcketa PLEASE HELPI I need 2 PURDUE GA's Four GA'a or aa m•ny •• poaalble and every true IRISH len will be decked 

GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE 1988 VUGO, 10,000 mi. Perfect out from head to toe in GREENIIII DAME/ ST. MARY'S COLLEGE
and 5 PENN STATE GA's. WILL PAYI lor Miami, Penn St., and Air Force DAVID x4245 Call 284-5260 or 287-7752 anytime

condltlon-alored 6 moe. ea. yr. $3,500. WEAR GREENI P.O. Box 194
FOR RENT Thank you ao much
291-4689 alter 5 pm. Notre Dame, IN 46556
Need 1 stud Mich ticket Dave 4681 WEAR GREEN! 

I NEED MICH GA OR STUDENT TICKET TIX FOR SALEIII My family backed out 

WEAR GREEN!
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· What's lhe difference between Domino's 
(WILL TRADE A PURDUE TICKET FOR & now I have 4 MICHIGAN GAs. I've got 

BORHOOD 255-3684288-0955 piua
ONE OR WILL PAY $$$)111 CALL BERT to get rid or these so they're lor a lair 
• 

G 0 IRISH 111111 
and SMC chicks? 
X2955. price. Call anytime. Jeff x1474. 

Effic1ency apt near N.D. $160 & $140 TICKETS The piuas are hot Ill mo. Call 259·4943 
need 6 PURDUE GA's call Fitz 1563 

Women ol St Mary's baware: Bill "Jiz" Hobbes, so you're really gonna go. Calvin I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & ALL HOME MY FATHER WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T 
FOUR FLAGS FARM McCoy is backll in South Bend. Hobbes in Rome. The
NEED OH SO DESPERATELY two Mic­

GAME TIXS.272-8306 GET HIM
BED 'N BREAKFAST. Juat 20 mlna. saga continues. It wouldn't be that tar of
higan tix, GA or student. Will pay ungodly .....................................................
2 STANFORD GA'S 

a roadtrip would It? We'll Yea wefrom NO. Ideal lor all NO actlvlllea. I want Michigan tixllllllllllllllllll Lots ol HAVE OTHER TICKETS TO TRADE. LIZ amounts ol money, perform illicit acts, Thank you St. Jude and the Holy Spirit; will. Just don't forget a few see. things: the
Re"""'• now. 8t~71-5711. 
etc. Call Matt at x3500 or x3633. Please. you have never tailed me. JMB
them lor BIG 1511 awesome memories, the summer wtth $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
Nice tum. home Sale area near N.D. nothing to do, and then there 1s New 
5 MICHIGAN GA's FOR SALE II 5 MIG· Bacchanalia Society-There is a Choice
Call Amy D. at 1822 ASAP DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR HIGAN GA's FOR SALE II Help me out
287-6389·683·8889 Years Day. It will be here. Yea it will. 
Take care and remember; I'll cross the 

NEED TIX FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL PURDUE GAME. I They're going cheap I I've got classes What they are uylng about Notre 
4 bedroom house. Nice neighborhood. sky... love ya geek. calvin 
GAME. CALL 287-3311 DAYS 7-5. CALL TINA 4852. at 9:00, so call Mike at 3305 or stop by Dame atudanta:$400 288-3613. 
241 Keenan early Ill "I've never seen such a spirited bunch. 
Are your dinners becoming drab? Are 

I HAVE 4 PENN STATE GA'S! I WANT That's why I stayed in the Indiana Na·
MSU TIX For sale and trade Mike S. II 3419 4 PITI GA'SI Want to trade? Call Amy STOPINeed 1 Mi G...St.Trade lor ANY lionel Guard. I was hoping to get some 
ROOM AVAILABLE JUST OFF ANGELA you sick ol stamng at your roommate's 
ugly lace across the table? Do you lind232·3616 

at 271·9885. OTHER Tix. Call ASAP I x4901 tickets lor the Miami game but George that your Rice Krisp1es speak more than is taking them instead.'' --Dan Quale.
I NEED 2 TICKETS My family IS coming you do? Don't call Dom1noes to escape. into town lor the Michigan game. Please NEED 2·4 MSU TIX; GA'S OR STU· Instead pick up the phone and give us a 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY lor 
game weekends. 219-291-7153 "What's a student? Do we have them?
help me lind them a place In the stands! DENTS. CALL AMY ··271·9885. 
call. Experienced personnel with exciting Call me at 272·5535, ask lor Michelle 
Am I one ol them?" -·Demetrious Brown. 
PERSONALS 

attitudes, trained in colorful conversation BADLY NEEDED: 2 tickets to ND-MSUBED AND BREAKFAST. TWO ROOMS just waiting to enhance your NO dinin­IN PRIVATE HOME. QUIET NEIGH· 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR Sept. 17th Call collect 312-541-4595 "II they wear green, we are dead. Simple 
All..a ghall pleasure. Call the Dinner ~scortBORHOOD. 291-8486. 
PURDUE Thanks. as that." --Big Bad Bo Schemblechler.
Have a great 18th birthday Service NOWI Avoid the rush. x2632. CALL X2743 Continue enjoying your freshman year I need 2 MiamWenn St tickets. Call col­
LErS SHOW THESE PEOPLE WHAT
Love, Mom and Chris HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY lect 718 631 5871 p.m. or 516 271 8500 
WE ARE ALL ABOUTIIII WEAR 
ROSABELLE I HELP I NEED 2 MICH GA'S. WILL PAY a.m. or Write 1 Bay Club Dr. APT GREEN, GREEN, AND MORE GREEN Have a wonderful weekend,CarolynON SATURDAY. LET'S BRING BACK
WANTED 
BIG $$$$. CALL TOM .1856 12U,West Bayside NY 11360 My family ·From MIAMI-wants to see the 
··················································· THE IRISH SPIRIT THAT KEPT DAN IN
Irish blow away the CANES Don't let He's Back. He's Bad, and He's Un­I NEED JUST ONE MICHIGAN TICKET. 
INDIANA.

STUDENT BANDS TO PLAY AT DOWN· MICHIGAN MICHIGAN NEED 10 GA'S them down II need 4 tickets lor the MIAMI showeredl Bill "Jiz" McCoy has returned. 
CAN YOU HELP ME. PLEASE?! CALL 

TOWN BAR. WE PAY WELL. CONTACT MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI NEED 12 GA'S game. Money$$$$ is no object -at all.
X1297 

G 0 IRISH 111111
CALL GARREn 287-5871
PETE BEFORE 2 P M MONDAY THRU Call Paul xt847 anytime. First there was CLUB DANKIS.. Now SATURDAY AT 289·8031 OR SEAN AT there's THE CABIN III Eigth Aoor Grace
NEED 2 GA's FOR AIR FORCE CALL 

289-1021 AFTER 6 P.M. WANTED: TWO MICHIGAN GA'S ..TOP PETE SMITH '92 (ZAHM) I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE RULES Ill 
ANN 284·4043

$$$ PAUL (616)·926·2986. ALL OF NEW JERSEY WISHES YOU GEORGE WINSTON··IF YOU HAVE "HAPPY BIRTHDAY." ANY EXTRA TICKETS, PLEASE CALL
RELIABLE SMC Student lor delivery ol M•u""'" Gallegher:
HELP Ill I DESPERATELY NEED 2 CHICAGO TRIBUNE & USA TODAY I NEED MICH TIX CALL MIKE 4113 LOVE FROM MOM, DAD & DAVE All or Notre Dame loves you. I may beMELISSA 2756
PURDUE GA'S. PLEASE CALL PEGGY SMC·GOOD $$$ & X-MAS BONUS-call forced to tell mom and dad ol your new
AT SMC X5494 DON'T WORRY. BE HAPPY.

HEY I I NEED A TICKET TO ANYONE INTERESTED IN HELPING Your secret admirer. 
MATI 277-1859 habits. 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS! WILL DO

UNIV PIZZA DLVY-Now Hiring Drivers THE MICHIGAN GAMEl ORGANIZE OR INTERESTED IN LOST IN NOH ~: MY STUD. ID AND 
ANYTHING WITHIN ETHICAL AND LE·

& Store Helpl Good Pay, Aexible Hoursl WHAT ELSE IS NEW, RIGHT? JOINING THE N.D. SKYDIVING CLUB DETEX. PLEASE CALL MARY BETH AT 
GAL LIMITS TO GET MIAMI STUDS OR 

Apply j 8055 St Ad 23 or call 277 ·8889 CALL CHRISTINA AT 2759. CALL DEAN 287·3024 1825
GA'S CALL SHARON! II 2873 see CLASS, page 9 
~-~--------~-.
I . 
I page 16 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 
I Knute Rockne, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, and the golden glory of Notre Dame. .. 

. . ~On sale now at the 
I 
Notre· Dame Bookstore.
I 
I ·­
I 
I 1 Coming soon from 
October Football Corp. 
Many Autumns Ago: 

f .• 
The Frank Leahy Era

I 
I 
I 
I at Boston College and Notre Dame. 


Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 The Observer page 17 

Baseball roundup 

Ward, Yanks trip Detroit 
NEW YORK -Pinch-hitter streak with a 2-1 victory Nixon home in the seventh in­Gary Ward's three-run homer Thursday night. ning and the San Francisco with two outs in the lOth inning Giants beat Atlanta 3-2 gave the New York Yankees a Mets 13, Cubs 6 Thursday night to end a six­
7-4 victory over Detroit CHICAGO -Howard Johnson game losing streak. Thursday night, sending the had five of New York's season­tumbling Tigers to their 14th high 20 hits, including a three­Expos 5, Pirates 4 loss in 17 games. run homer in a five-run seventh PITTSBURGH -Tim Wal­
inning rally Thursday, and the lach drove in three runs with Athletics 5, Royals 1 Mets beat the Chicago Cubs 13-three hits, including the go­
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Curt 6. ahead run on an eighth-inning Young pitched four-hit ball for double, as the Montreal Expos eight innings Thursday night Astros 2, Dodgers 1 beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 5-4 and the Oakland Athletics beat LOS ANGELES-Nolan Ryan Thursday night. Kansas City 5-1, their first vic­pitched a five-hitter and Buddy tory over the Royals in seven Bell singled home the game­Cardinals 1 , Phillies 0 games this season. winner in the eighth inning as ST. LOUIS -Ozzie Smith 
the Houston Astros edged the walked with the bases full and Reds 2, Padres 1 Los Angeles Dodgers 2-1 two out in the fifth inning, 
SAN DIEGO -Jose Rijo, Thursday night. giving the St. Louis Cardinals making his first start since a 1-0 victory Thursday night Aug. 14, combined with two Giants 3, Braves 2 over the Philadelphia Phillies relievers on a four-hitter as the SAN FRANCISCO -Bob behind a combined five-hitter Cincinnati Reds ended a six­Brenly's bunt on a suicide by Larry McWilliams and two game San Diego winning squeeze play brought Donell relievers. 
I I

NL president Giamatti named as baseball comm1ss1oner 
Associated Press "My priorities are not too dif­said. dean of discipline" in two years denies being the main ferent than Peter Ueber­"It's obviously no surprise. as NL president. He suspended proponent. 
MONTREAL Angelo roth's," Giamatti said. "My While investigating the role, Pete Rose for 30 days this Giamatti said he does not Bartlett Giamatti, the National first priority as commissioner­the action today became very season after the Cincinnati plan any major personnel League president, was named elect will be finding the best obvious," Ueberroth said. manager bumped umpire Dave changes in the commissioner's Thursday as baseball's next possible resolution to "He's the right man for the Pallone and refused to bend to office. He does, however, to commissioner to succeed Peter baseball's labor relations prob­job." criticism and pressure to hire "a person of size and sub­Ueberroth, who will end his lem." Giamatti and NL owners met lighten the sentence. stance" to assist him with term nine months early to help Ueberroth, who often said he briefly Thursday to talk about Last year, Giamatti baseball's complicated issues. the transition. would be a one-term commis­a method of choosing a new NL suspended Kevin Gross for Ueberroth, the financial 
Giamatti was elected to a sioner, led the support for president. No names were dis­scuffing baseballs and Billy wizard behind the 1984 Summer five-year term by unanimous Giamatti and did not want the cussed, although New York Hatcher for corking a bat, in­Olympics, said he does not vote of the 26 team owners at selection process to drag out. Mets general manager Frank sisting that order was neces­know what his future holds. their quarterly meeting. Ueberroth made his recom­Cashen has been mentioned sary and cheating was in­There has been speculation he Giamatti, 50, will become the mendation at a morning previously. tolerable. Giamatti was also will return to the private sec­game's seventh commissioner meeting and owners voted for Giamatti, president of Yale said to be the driving force be­tor, possibly as a top executive when he officially takes office Giamatti "without a lot of dis­University for eight years, hind this season's enforcement with the Shearson Lehman April 1, 1989. cussion," the commissioner earned a reputation as "the of balk he Brothers firm. 
SPONSORED BY HPC AND IRISH INSANITY 
LOCATIONS IN FRONT OF THE DINING HALLS AND ON GREEN FIELD. 
SUPPORT THE IRISH: GET PAINTED AND GET LOUD!!! 
PLEASE WEAR GREEN GAME 

The Observer Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 
_Irish heading to Saluki Invite 
.. 
The Observer 1Mike Ury 

Freshman setter Julie Bremner (3) and the rest of the Notre Dame volleyball team will try to rebound from Wednesday's loss to Stan­ford this weekend at the Salukl Classic. Southern Illinois Is hosting 
the weekend tournament. 
Fraser 
continued from page 24 for a pair of games between the USA and Canada. "It's probably one of the best (Class) A ballparks I've ever seen," said Fraser. "We're very fortunate to have an op­portunity to play somewhere like that. That's really quite a shrine for Class A baseball." 
Miami finished fifth in the College World Series last season while posting a 52-14-1 record. The Hurricanes have made 10 trips to Omaha, Neb., for the College World Series since 1974, and won national titles in 1982 and 1985. Miami has been to the NCAA Regionals for 16 consecutive years, a feat unequalled by any team in the country. 
Fraser has posted a 1,069-380­

G~tWf'Ll. 
CIIIESE·IIIEIICAIIIIESTAUUIIT 
~c~......_.niHuMnCulelnel 
Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 
Dinners starting at______ $4.95 llestcnuCml.0 1 days M011.-Thllft.ll:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-~:30 am to 11 pm SUD. &Holidays 11:30 am to 10 pm 
130 Dixie l_lwy•• Boaelcmd (aextto Bmulall'siDD) 272-7376 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY GENERAL MEETING 

for Juniors, Sophomores, Freshmen Monday, September 12th 7 pm in the Library Auditorium Packets will be issued (attendance is required) 
9 career coaching mark and has won four National Coach of the Year awards. Over 100 former Hurricanes now are playing in the professional ranks. 
The idea of bringing Fraser's Hurricanes to South Bend for a series arose when Murphy was wondering how he could use the reputation of the Irish football team to the advantage of his squad. 
"We've got the greatest foot­ball program in the world," said the second-year Irish coa­ch. "We wanted to see if we could bring in a top-ranking team and put it with a football weekend. 
"Ron said it was a good idea," continued Murphy. "We immediately got in touch with Mayor Kernan and Joe Baxter to try to get things together. They thought it would be a great part of a great weekend." 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team will try to regroup after a disappointing four-game loss Wednesday to fourth-ranked Stanford as the Irish travel to Carbondale, Ill., for the Saluki Invitational. 
The Irish will take on Bowling Green and Arizona today and Iowa and Southern Illinois tomorrow in the round­robin tournament. 
Notre Dame easily defeated Bowling Green last year in a three-game sweep, 15-13, 15-9, 15-9, and leads the series against the Falcons 3-1. 
Arizona will be Notre Dame's biggest challenge of the tourn­ament. The Irish will be facing Arizona for the first time ever, but the Wildcats have been na­tionally ranked in past seasons and are consistently strong in the Pac-10 Conference. 
The Irish will face another 
strong conference team when they meet Iowa on Saturday. Notre Dame beat the Haw­keyes in three games, 15-10, 15­8, 15-9, in their first meeting last year, but Iowa hopes to finish in the upper half of the Big Ten this year and can not be overlooked. 
Following the Iowa game, the Irish will play their last game of tournament as they take on the Salukis of Southern Illinois on their home court. Southern Illinois fell to Notre Dame last year in their first meeting after three games, 15­3, 15-8, 15-10. 

"I'm not overly concerned about this tournament," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "The team has the talent and if it plays well I think we can win it, but they've got to bounce back from the Stanford loss." 
Senior Mary Kay Waller, who hit an amazing .340 hitting percentage Wednesday against a much-taller Stanford team, will be the key to a successful Irish offense in the tourna­ment. 
Waller, by far the most con­sistent hitter on the team thus far with a .348 hitting percentage after two matches, also leads the team in blocks with 14. 
Seniors Zanette Bennett and Maureen Shea also have gotten off to a good start this year, controlling net play with their hitting and blocking. Bennett in particular has been a force, recording 11 blocks after Notre 
Stotz, Lock your Doo It's Sully's B-Day 
"'f>.~~~ \9J~"' 
Notre DaDie Avenue Apartments 
NOWIIENTING FOR FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies. laundry. and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence. all deluxe features 
Move in before October 15th and get ONE MONTH RENT FREE 
Office at 120 NO An 
134-6647 Call Aaytiale 


SaturdayNight Worship & Praise A CHRISTIAN CONTEMPORARY WORSHIP SERVICE ON SATURDAY NIGHT 6:00PM Nursery Provided 
*Especially for University Students *Biblical Preaching *Social Interaction *Free Pizza Aug. 27 
Bible Teacher-Marcus Warner Pastor of University Outreach 
t,;r. 
7215 Grape Road 

THE~ (behind Chi-Chi's) cN.~.fi:H_,-Granger, IN 277-4737 Iiatii~oWiioA;ii_...... Rev. Russell Fish, Pastor 
Dame's first two matches. 
Defensively, senior Whitney Shewman has been the most consistent for the squad, tally­ing a team high 29 digs. She has been a catalyst for the Irish as a starter and coming off the bench, and her play has often helped the team swing momen­tum in its favor. 

If all goes well in the tourn­ament for the squad, younger players such as freshmen Jen­nifer Slosar and Christine Cho­quette and sophomore Rachel Hall should get some playing time and gain some valuable game experience . 
Slosar, a native of Birming­ham, Mich., and Choquette, who hails from Warwick, R.I., are middle hitters and have yet to see any varsity action. Hall, also a middle hitter, earned a monogram as a freshman, and should add to depth to Notre Dame's frontline. 

"I know that we can really improve from where we are right now," said Lambert, "and if we can accept this (loss to Stanford) as a learning ex­perience and a tool, I think we're going to be just fine." 
Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 The Observer page 19 
Men's tennis team plans on hitting the big-time ... 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
It is readily acknowledged that football and basketball are the big sports on campus, but recently the Notre Dame ath­letic department has renewed its commitment to the other, so-called 'minor sports,' by adding scholarships to these teams. 
The men's tennis team, led by second-year Irish coach Bob Bayliss, has been quick to make the jump into the college tennis spotlight. 
Certainly the biggest, but by no means the only, reason for the emergence arrived on campus three weeks ago. 
Freshman Dave DiLucia of Norristown, Penn., one of the top three under-18 year old ten­nis players in the nation decided last spring to play ten­nis for Notre Dame. 
"He has incredible talent,'' said Irish captain Bryan Kalbas. "Great hands, great footwork, great reflexes." 
DiLucia is no stranger to in­tense competition. His senior year of high school was spent in Europe with the United States Junior Davis Cup Team, and he and doubles partner John Stark of Oregon, are the number-one junior pair in the nation. 
DiLucia also has played in the Italian and U.S. Opens and 
• 
Wimbledon as a. junior player. Just last week, he competed in his second U.S. Open, losing in the opening round. 
Perhaps the most exciting event in DiLucia's tennis career came last year when he and Stark defeated Mats Wilander and Andre Agassi in an exhibition doubles match at the Nationals ill Ka)amazoo, Mich. 
"There were 7,000 people watching in the smallest area you could imagine," said DiLucia. "We played on center court surrounded by all those people. It was great." 
The arrival of DiLucia and junior transfer Walter Dol­hare, one of Argentina's top players, marks the beginning of Notre Dame's attempt to climb to the top of collegiate tennis. 

"We want to be the best team in the Midwest, which means beating every Big 10 team, every Mid-American team, and the independents," said Kalbas about the team's goals for the upcoming season. ''That will get us in the NCAA's." 
DiLucia also has very big plans for both himself and the Irish in the next four years. 
"I think team-wise we can hope to be national champions within the next couple of years," said DiLucia. "Per­sonally, if I work hard and give my best effort, I'd like to win an NCAA title." 
Both DiLucia and Dolhare at­tribute their coming to Notre Dame to the new tennis com­mitment, especially with the efforts of Bayliss. 
"The coach promised me that we would play the best schedule that he could put to­gether,'' said DiLucia. 
The progress Bayliss has made· in such a short time has some Irish players thiking very optimistically about the long­term future of Notre Dame ten­nis. 
"I think that certainly, within the next two or three years," said Kalbas, "we'll be in the top five in the country." 
... and talented recruits have women also eyeing spotlight 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
In 1985, Coach Michelle Gelfman began the process of revitalizing a Notre Dame wo­men's tennis program which had continually struggled to assert itself. 
In the succeeding four years, Gelfman has reconstructed the Irish schedule, adding teams which have significantly en­hanced their quest for recogni­tion in the tennis world. 
By achieving some level of success against these teams this year, Notre Dame hopes to open some eyes and, in the process, secure a berth for the NCAA tournament. Their first step toward this goal comes today when the team begins play at the Indiana University Fall Midwest Invitational. 
If the Irish are to realize their goal, they must receive sub­stantial contributions from their highly-touted freshman class. This season's recruits bring a youthful enthusiasm to the program as well as national tournament experience which 
Friday, Sept. 9 DANCE-DANCE­DANCE-
to the favorite tunes played by great campus D.J.'s 
.

open1ng at 9:00 
Come watch 
could pay huge dividends once the competition heats up in the Midwest region. 
"They're really dynamic players, " says Gelfman. "They'll alleviate some of the pressure from last year when we weren't-strong enough for our opponents." 
Indeed, newcomers Katie Clark, Tracy Barton, Kristy Doran, Ann Bradshaw and Tyler Musleh will give Notre Dame more depth than it has enjoyed in years. However, the freshmen don't intend to sit 
Sept 11 
SUPER SPORTS SUNDAY 
NFL Football 
4-7 PM 
back and watch the action from the sidelines this year. Chal­lenge matches will be con­ducted throughout the next couple of weeks to determine the top six spots on the roster. 
At present, eight players, in­cluding the five freshmen, are vying for the top six spots. As many as three new faces are expected to crack the Irish lineup. 
Katie Clark is slated to start at number-two behind sopho­more Ce Ce Cahill. Clark, a na­tive of Park Ridge, Ill., was an all-state performer as a high school senior and finished among the top 16 at last year's Junior Nationals. 
Barton, a Prince All­American, won the Ohio high school title as a freshman and finished her high school career with a 109-9 record. The Cincin­nati, Ohio, native will start in the number-three position. 
Seeded fourth for the Irish is Doran, Arizona's nominee for All-America in 1988. The Tuc­son resident finished her high school career with a 57-5 record and accumulated a number of honors, including the South­western Tennis Association Sportsmanship Award in 1986 and 1988, and the Southern Arizona Tennis Association Sportsmanship Award in 1987. 
Veterans Kim Pacella and Alice Lohrer currently hold down the fifth and sixth spots, respectively, for Notre Dame. Sophomore Pacella (Toledo, Oh.), recorded a record of 15-11 
last seasoJoi~le Lohrer 

==========================~~T~h~e~~O~b;;s;e;r;v~e~r~ continued tram page 24
Ron Markezich and junior 
T-ED 

(Republic of Panama), went 10-13 on the year. 
Freshmen Ann Bradshaw and Tyler Musleh also are com­peting for spots. Bradshaw (Indianapolis, Ind.), ~ cross country star, won the Indiana state tennis title as a sopho­more. Musleh (Ocala, Fla.), a two-time Florida state singles champion, finished fifth at the St. Louis National Clay Court Championship in 1987. 
The five newcomers join the Irish tennis program at a very pivotal point in its existence. The fall schedule, which fea­tures individual tournaments such as the ITCA All-America Tournament, the Rice Tennis Classic, and the ITCA Regional and National Tournaments, should act as a proving ground for the youngest members of the team. Gelfman believes that this group is capable of leading Notre Dame to bigger and better things. 
,., (The freshmen) will take us to the next level to play teams effectively in the Midwest, " says Gelfman. "We need to finish in the top one or two in our region if we are to make the NCAA's. I'd like to see us finish in the top four." 
Undoubtedly, the maturation of the freshmen will play a vital role in the development of this year's team. If everything goes as planned, it won't be long before they are seen, as Gelfman hopes, "not only from a recruiting standpoint, but also from a competitive stand­point". 
Irish 
Mike O'Connor. Markezich finished 48th place in the NCAAs last year and O'Connor won last year's opening meet with Georgetown with a five­mile time of 26:08. • 
The trio of Garrett, Markezich and O'Connor stayed at Notre Dame this sum­mer and trained together. Ex­pectations from these three will be very high. 
In addition, sophomore Ryan Cahill come along very well for the Irish. Cahill came on strong last year with a 106th-place finish in the NCAAs. 
Junior Tom O'Rourke and sophomore Matt Ronzone have been training well, and are definitely figuring into Piane's plans. Junior Tom Macken, will also look forward to a positive season. 
"Finishing seventh in the na­tion is unbelievably good," said Piane. 
page 20 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 9-11 , 1988 
..... 
MARTIRL ARTtJ INJriTUT£ 1)E.MON~TRA710N //.'.30 -/2.:00 GYMNA5TI~ C.J..UB.,])~MON.STR.ATION 13.: ()() -/2...'2.0 8A6PIPE PE.RFoRMANC.E. 12..·2o -tz..:tJo DI:SMAS HOI.J.S£ BAND :TAM 
12..·~o--J:!o NOVIN, WITH IHE. f:.tROOVE-H 
I :30 -/.'1/.S SIN~IN• ce f)ANCIN, WITH ,.SHE.NANI~ANS" ;.·~s--2.:30 NOR£. MOVIN' WITH "THE.f:,Roove.'' 2:30-~: 00 NOTRE. 1)AME. )s WORl--D FAMOU~ GLE.E. C!,LU8 ~:oo-3:3o R.oeK/N, WITH THE. "FR~&II-E. BAND'' ~:ao -~:3S FOLI<LORif! DAN~IN4 P~RFORMANC6--#-.f. .3 :,35'-~:55' TAE. I<WDN l>o CL.U8 DEMON.STR.ATION ~ :S'S-<II-.· o o FOLI<J....OR.IC.. I>ANC..IN~ PE.RFDRMANCE. _.2. '41 •• 00 -.//. ,' 2. 0 ROJ..L.II<IN) ~ Rltt..L.VIN 1 WITH THE 1-E.PRC.CHAUN, 
POM 'PON SQUAP, ANl> CHE.E.RUADE.R.s· "': 1 0 -.t~.· 2.~ F0 L.HLfJ 'R1(! 1JA N (!,IN f:t PE.R F()/2 MAN(!£ rM .?J ~:2.~-.1/.·t~~O "~UE.NANIG,ANS"SING,S AND ~HUFI=L'CS ON~E. HORE ~.·~()-
':3o 
"FRA&IL.E. 
SAND, iloC!I(' Tll-1-THE. £H'D \ 
~ o{fl . "' '\\)"{(\ 0 ~ 
, , \~v
r' . \, ·/ ~ oO ,ADfo~;-e Painti~ • 0 

Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 
Night 
continued from page 24 
from the line, and you can bet Irish head coach Lou Holtz won't let their talents go to waste. 
Ricky Watters will generate plenty of excitement. The soph­omore won't rival Tim Brown at flanker just yet, but he can catch the ball and is as danger­ous as they come when he has it in his hands. Look for Wat­ters to dazzle defenders on returns as well. 
Back-up tailback Tony Brooks will catch the attention of defenders in a slightly dif­ferent way. Brooks is playing in a padded shoe because of his fractured foot, and the black, boot-like footwear is bound to draw some comparisons. 
"It looks like we got him out of the steel mill or the Army," said Holtz, adding that Brooks will indeed get a chance to play despite the injury. 
The defense will be solid. The line is the big question mark, but the men up front have one of the best linebacking corps in the nation ready to cover up some of the slip-ups. Against the Wolverine offense, there are bound to be some slip-ups up front. Look for one of the inside linebackers to lead the team in tackles against Mic­higan. 
That leaves the offensive line. And that's Notre Dame's key to stopping a spooky Sat­urday night. 
The Irish had their last full workout Thursday, running through plays without any hit­ting. The coaching staff has decreased the amount of con­tact since Tuesday. 
"You always wish you had a couple more days," Holtz said. "But we've come a long way. We're going to have to play as a total team, and our defense is going to have to play very, very well." 
Holtz on the Irish being a two­and-a-half point favorite over the Wolverines: 
"A lot of people don't believe they're Catholic if they don't bet on Notre Dame. How in the world can you justify that (the Irish being favored) on paper? I just hope they're right." 
Huskers wary of Aikman 
Associated Press 
Tom McBride, defensive co­ordinator for second-ranked Nebraska, calls himself "a run­defense guy." So facing Troy Aikman and No. 5 UCLA's passing game makes him a little jumpy. 
get into all this modern, fancy stuff, I don't know. I get a little nervous." 
The Observer page 21 
• 
Sports Briefs 
Irish Outdoors is sponsoring a canoe trip to the Pine River in Michigan. The group will depart Friday afternoon, Sept. 17, and will return the following day. Deadline for registra­tion is Wednesday, Sept. 14. For questions or registration, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club will hold practice today for members at Diamond Lake. All those interested should meet at the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake at 3:30p.m. -The Observer 
The pep rallyfortheNotreDame-Michigan game will be held tonight at 7 p.m. on the Stepan basketball courts. -The Observer 
The Novice Boxing Team will practice today. Anyone interested in joining the novice team should show up at the boxing gym at gate three of the Joyce ACC at 4 p.m. or call Mike Noone at x3386. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club will be hosting its Intersectional Regatta this weekend at Dia­mond Lake in Cassopolis, Mich. Sixteen teams from the East and Midwest will be at the races on Saturday and Sunday. Those wishing to at­tend the regatta may get directions to Diamond Lake from Pete Wall at x1650 or meet at the main circle Saturday at 9 a.m. -The Observer 
The SMC Co-ed team tennis captains' meeting is Tuesday, Sept. 13 at 4 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. This is the only time entries will be accepted. Call 284-5290 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
The SMC Student Athletic Council will be sponsoring a picnic for all the school's current athletes and those interested in becom­ing varsity athletes. The picnic will be held Monday, Sept. 12, at 7 p.m. on the east end of Angela Athletic Facility. Call284-5549 and leave your dining hall number. -The Observer 

Sweet C. Robinson, a Notre Dame employee, will be competing Saturday for the Illinois state PAKA middleweight kick-boxing championship. Robinson, ranked lOth in the world by the P AKA, already holds the Indiana and Michigan titles. -The Observer 
Wear green to the game this Saturday against Michigan. The Hall Presidents Council and Irish Insanity will sponsor a face paint at the dining hall and Green Field. There will be no charge to get your face painted. -The Obser­ver 
The NO women's golf team wants any women with a nine handicap or lower interested in trying out for the team to report to the Burke Memorial Golf Course between 3 and 4 p.m. to see Coach Tom Hanlon. -The Observer 
The Squash Club membership fee of $4 is due today. Members should send fees to Bill Murray at 337 Holy Cross. The first meeting will be Tuesday, Sept. 13, at Court 1 of the Joyce ACC at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The NO TaeKwonDo Club has workouts every Monday and Wednesday from 8:30 to 10 
p.m. in the Joyce ACC gym. Beginners and ad­vanced students are welcome. For more infor­mation, contact Richard Jennings at x1943. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club competed over Labor Day weekend at the Harry Anderson Regatta at Yale in New Haven, Conn. The team fared well against the 18 east coast schools. This weekend the team will host the Notre Dame Intersectional Regatta. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
LAST YlAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
Young Indy-bound? 
Assoch.ted Press 
• 

The Alternative Sounds of "OM 51" COVER $3.00 
52303 Emmons Rd. Mun.-Thur. 11 :OOam-1 :OOam ::Jeorgetown Shopping Centc·r Fri.-Sat. 11 :00am-3:00am 277-1727 
us 31 


1::J c 
CIJ c CIJ 
-10 "0 
-g ~ ~ 

a..CII 0 D ~~ D ----+--__,;J_u_n..:.ip_er____-L_-t--l
P.~ 
Emmons • 

• 
page 22 


' 
Andre Agassi eliminated fellow American Jimmy Connors In straight sets Thursday night In the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open. Agassi advances to the semifinals with top-seeded Ivan Lendl, who also won In straight sets Thursday. 
The Observer Weekend Edition, September 9-11, 1988 
Lendl, Agassi win with ease; reach semifinals of U.S. Open 
Associated Press to the net twice in the entire Connors played a session with match, but he won both those him as a birthday present for NEW YORK -Defending points too. Agassi. champion Ivan Lendl, peaking "I was very pleased with my Rostagno, playing in his first 
at the right time, overpowered intensity and concentration," Grand Slam quarterfinal, was Derrick Rostagno Thursday to he said. "It's not that easy to philosophical about the defeat. advance to the U.S. Open semi­play Derrick. He plays a lot like "If I won it this year, I 
finals for the seventh straight (Miloslav) Mecir. He made un­wouldn't have anything to look year. believable shots and missed forward to next year," he said. Lendl, seeking a record easy shots." Rostagno, a 22-year-old
fourth straight Open title, beat Lendl, who lost only one set Californian who travels the the former Stanford star 6-2, 6-in each of his last three Opens, U.S. circuit in an old bus,2, 6-0 at the National Tennis has already dropped three sets couldn't beat Lendl but he did Center. this year. He played a five­beat the odds by reaching the 
"He's very tough, very fast, setter in the opening round quarterfinals. very powerful, very accurate, against Amos Mansdorf and a "I played some great tennis very solid," said Rostagno, four-setter against Jakob here, although maybe not 
who at No. 52 was the lowest Hlasek in the fourth round. today," he said. "I'm proud of 
ranked player left in the tourn­In Thursday night's quarter­myself. I did my best out there ament. "He's a great player." final between the two highest­today. I missed, but I kept
Lendl, who struggled in the ranked American players, trying."early rounds, was nearly fault­Andre Agassi defeated Jimmy In the mixed doubles final,less Thursday. Connors in straight sets. Jana Novotna of Czechos­
The top seed made only 10 Agassi, an 18-year-old from lovakia and American Jim unforced errors, held serve Las Vegas, Nev., currently is Pugh defeated Elizabeth every time and had just one on a 23-match winning streak. Smylie of Australia and Amer­double-fault. Lendl only came When he was four years old, ican Patrick McEnroe, 7-5, 6-3. 
SMC tennis team downs DePaul 
By HEATHER ATKINSON  tinued her winning ways. Block  matches.  
Sports Writer  defeated  her  number-two  Sarah Mayer and Charlene  
singles opponent 6-4, 6-0.  Szjako teamed up to win the  
The Saint Mary's tennis team  Sarah Mayer and her sister,  number-two doubles match 6-4,  
captured its first victory of the  Ellen, both were victorious in  6-3.  Koscielshie  and  Ellen  
season Thursday by casting out  their singles matches. Third­ Mayer  won  6-1,  6-1  in  the  
the Blue Demons of DePaul7-2.  seeded Sarah won 6-2, 6-2, while  number-three doubles match.  
"I  was  really pleased with  her  fourth-seeded  sister  "It's good  to keep the  mo­ 
their showing," said Belles co­ defeated her opponent 6-2, 6-0.  mentum going from last year  
ach Deb Laverie. "In practice  Coach Laverie was parti~u­ and the state championship,"  
we looked stronger than we did  larly pleased with the play of  said Laverie. "I'm looking for­ 
last year but you  can  never  the  three  freshemen  in  her  ward to the Saint Mary's Invi­ 
really tell until you see them in  lineup.  Angie  Mueller  and  tational in a few weeks. I think  
a competitive situation."  Marie  Koscielshie  conquered  we've  got  a  good  chance  of  
Junior Jenny Block, a return­ their competition 7-5, 6-4 and  taking  home  some  of  our  
ing starter from last year, con­ 7-6, 6-4 in their first collegiate  trophies this year."  

ATTENTION STUDENTS: 

~ AND SUPPORT THE IRISH 

HANKIES AVAILABLE for $2 I each W-F at the Dining Halls, Lunch & Dinner, at the Class Offices, SATURDAY around the STADIUM, & at the Senior Concession Stand at Alumni Hall 

G H! BEAT MICHIGAN 
_, 
Weekend Edition, Sept~e:!.!m.!!:b::::e.:....r2..9-:..:1....:.1.:....,..:..:19~8~8:.._______________;T~h:::e:....:O=bse::.=..:rv...:..::.er:_.__:-----------------------!:..pa:.::g~£,;e:.....::2;::.3 
CAMPUS 
All day Meetings of the Advisory Councils for Science and Engineering in the Center for· Continuing Educa­tion. • 
7:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at Holy Cross Hall. 
12:15 p.m. Anti-Apartheid Network weekly vigil on the steps of the Administration BuiJding. 
6:30 p.m. Campus Bible Fellowship bible study at 19525 Pendle Rd. Call 277-8471 for rides or information. 
7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Communication and Theatre film, "The Dead," directed by John Huston at the An­nenberg Auditorium. . 
SATURDAY 9:30a.m. Closed Alcoholics Anonymous 'meeting in the multi-purpose room of the center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by the C.S.C. and the Alumni Association. 
10:00 a.m. Women and men cross country teams vs. Georgetown at Burke Memorial golf course. 
8:00 p.m. Football vs. Michigan in the Notre Dame stadium. 
SUNDAY 
10:30 a.m. Formal opening of school year mass. Cele­brant: Rev. Edward Malloy. At Sacred Heart Church. 
1:00 p.m. Soccor vs. Xavier at Moose Krause Stadium. 
2:00p.m. to 3:30p.m. President's reception for new fac­ulty at the Snite Museum of Art. · 
3:00 p.m. St. Mary's Department of Music faculty recital by Loretta Robinson, soprano, at the Little Theatre. 
7:00p.m. Film, "Eagle Gone," a history of the American Indian, Engineering Auditorium. 
COMICS 
Bloom County 

375 MONTH~. 

Runny Noses 

gp/11. Av~o,r( MICJ/16-M 
f-IGH~S!
G-AMf/(/M~ I AND I!IPfk-
1/tPirJ&-/$ ~fU; AlAI/€-, . P/tlrltM AtJP BotJvo lfl.fi kf(t,dPrtlf1"o usr Mrrlcrrt--r~t{,.6Kflfl/fr · 
~v~t ~ss ... 

• 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
31 Bout 32 Windshield ACROSS 
1 Corrode sticker 
4 Aroma 35 Collective noun 
8 Mulberry bark 39 Four-poster 12 Tater 40 Girasols 14 Celebrated • 41 A tide 
16 Bates or Ladd 42 Profs' boss 
17 Triangle ratio 43 Quakes 18 Solitary 45 Heel over
19 Papal name 48 Broadcasts 20 Collective noun 
49 Collective noun 
23 Deer dears 
54 W Pacific sea 24 Bacon bringer 55 Founder of the 
25 Signaling Russian device empire28 Knots in wool 
56 Veronica or 
30 Kind of house 
Como or frog 58 Expends 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ALLAHISCAPE  ~~~  
0  I A N A  T 0  R EN  ~~~  
OLDGRAYHEAD  E~~  
STYLUS.ONTO  ~LI  

-IM PA 
~~ A~r,~
D E A. E D T T R 0 T S 
M U Y F R E S H I N F­
•
p OE T IIA.'AMM~T
E R 
-SIR 7A~OE ADE 
S C 0 N E T E R. S N 0 B L 0 F T S A T M 0 S T­~f--8~ tA" S S E. S T E E L E ~~ff" LIPSWERERED ~~tu E N A T Ell R A D E f8~~ SENSE ASTAR 
'-'-'­


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
... H!&H ~C!et£, 
5CKMM~ Of fKV5rRIIT/ON ~ fOI/NfJ 7rJ ~ VN(t::m­rOKTI/8.(..£ !N5/CJE Oft=IC!f/L NIIS!l PK€SX'fi'€ fi£L.MU5 
Andy Kinney 

-. 
"It's Vince, all right. It's his nose, his mouth, his fur ... but his eyes -there's something not quite right about his eyes." 
• 
59 Dog's warning 60 Okla. city 61 Dry 62 Kind of club 63 Compass point 
DOWN 
1 Double curve 2 A Samoan 
capital 3 Drying oil 4 Wild ass 5 Guys need ·~m 6 Okla. tribe 7 U. of Nevada 
site 8 Candles 9 E.T.,e.g. 
10 Recorder word 11 A goose ,13 Essenes' 
locale 15 Yield in 
judgment 21 Baby's word 22 Round dance 25 Bats backward 26 A Gardner 27 Want 

28 Kind of dance 36 Pondered 45 -belli (war 51 Verbal29 Shoshoneans intently starter) 52 Antithesis of 
31 Tunisian 

37 Poker term 46 Entertain wax seaport 38 Aromatic 47 Sovereign 
53 Glides along a32 God once put in liquid 48 Filled with piste

ajar 42 Read carefully ardor 
33 Furniture style 43 Reaping,tool 50 Step of 57 Netherlands 34 Vipers 44 Slip up promotion town 




·. 

• 
Sports

page 24 Weekend Edition, September 9-11 , 1988 
Cross country set for opener 
Georgetown faces an Irish team coming off No. 7 finish 
By SCOTT BRUT-GCAO Sports Writer 

Coming off a 1987 season in which it finished seventh in the country, the Notre Dame men's cross contry team begins the 1988 campaign at home tomor­row against defending Big East champion Georgetown in less than perfect health. 
"We're a little banged up right now," said 13th-year Head Coach Joe Piane, refer­ring to the fact that two of the top seven runners will not be competing in the forthcoming meet. "We want to get out of this one unhurt. " 
The Irish will be without the services of sophomore Pat Kearns and fifth-year senior Rick Mulvey. 
The dual meet, scheduled to take place at 11:15a.m. on the second fairway of the Burke Memorial Golf Course, has been highly anticipated by both sides, especially the results from last year's meet between the two teams. 
At last year's meet, held at Georgetown in which the Hoyas' top three athletes did not compete, the Irish thoroughly whipped the Hoyas 18-41. That surprising score set the tone of the 1987 season for the Irish as being a team to be reckoned. 
This year, the Irish are with­out the element of surprise, and Georgetown will be using all of its top runners. 
In other words, it won't be a blowout. 
"They're not going to come in and just roll over," said Piane. 
The Hoyas are led by junior John Trautman, who holds the national high school record in the 3,000 meters. He also has qualified to compete in the Olympic trials this summer in the 1,500 meters. 
Georgetown finished 17th in the NCAAs last year, but "didn't run well," according to Piane. They also 'have won the · Big East for two years in a row. The common fear is that, with 

Will it be a nightmare or a night in heaven? 
They say spooky things happen in the night. Ghosts come out at night, wolves howl in the night and the crime rate goes up at night, to name a few. 
Tomorrow night, when a football goes up into the lighted sky of Notre Dame Stadium, with it will rise the hopes of Irish fans all over the country. And the hopes of Irish fans are not small hopes, either. 
Every year at this time the hopes are of victory and national championships, no matter what the odds are like or how strong the opposition may be. In fact, the hopes of Irish fans are more like expectations. It happens every year. 

Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 




And every year since 1977, something spooky has hap­pened somewhere along the road to the next Notre Dame national championship. It's scarier than ghosts, wolves and even a rise in the crime rate to a Notre Dame football fan. It's a loss. 
Yes, spooky things happen in the night, even when it's opening night at Notre Dame. So to ease any fear you may have about an Irish loss in the 1988 opener, here's a look at some of the things the Irish will do tomorrow night to chase the thought of a loss away: 
Tony Rice will throw the ball better than he did last year. He's been pretty consistent all fall and should per­form well. 
Notre Dame will use its tight ends as pass-catchers more than it did laM year. Sophomore Frank Jacobs and fresh­man Derek Brown are serious threats when they break 
see NIGHT, page 21 

the two key injuries that the Irish have sustained, a healthy Georgetown team could be too much for them. 
"Proportionally it's like taking 27 football players out of a team of 90," said Piane. 

"We've  had  two  major  set­ 
backs.  
"I expect the  guys  to  run  

well," Piane continued. "If we run up to our capabilities, we can win this meet." 
The Irish will be led by fifth­year senior captain DaQ Gar­rett, the undisputed leader of the squad. Last year Garrett finished sixth individually in the NCAA's last year and may be a crucial factor in bringing the team back again. 
"It (Georgetown) is a good meet to start the year," said Garrett. "To do ·well against Georgetown means that we can be competitive with all eastern teams." 
Two other returning veter­ans to the team will be senior 
see IRISH, page 19 

Miami to face ND in. baseball 
Hurricanes will storm Coveleski during ND-UM week 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
After recording its best record ever last spring, the Notre Dame baseball team has started the 1988-89 school year by pulling off a major schedul­ing coup. 
Perennial collegiate power Miami will be coming to Notre Dame for a two-game series the week of the Notre Dame­Miami football game, it was an­nounced at a press conference in the Joyce ACC yesterday. 
"This is a very exciting time for us," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. "We're very for­tunate to have a team of Miami's caliber play us. We're excited as heck to have them here. They have established themselves as the epitome of winning college baseball." 
The games are scheduled for 7 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 15, and for 8 p.m. the following day, with both contests being held at South Bend's Stanley Coveleski Regional Stadium. The second game is slated for a later time to accomodate people who want to attend the football pep rally earlier that evening, and transportation will be provided from the pep rally to the game. 
Game tickets go on sale Sept. 

21 and will be available at the Notre Dame ticket office in gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Tick­ets will cost $4 for box seats, $3 for adult general admission and $2 for students. 
South Bend mayor Joe Ker­nan, who was_ present at the press conference, said that the Miami series signifies the start of a new era in Notre Dame baseball. 
"I think it's terrific that Co­ach Murphy and the University have made a commitment to the baseball program," said Kernan, a former Irish baseball player himself. "It's fitting that we have Notre Dame come of age into national prominence in· baseball coin­ciding with the opening of the finest minor league baseball stadium." 
Notre Dame recorded a 39-22 record last year, which set a new school record for most vic­tories in a season. The Irish set another school record last spring when they won 16 con­secutive games late in the season. 
Two major factors of Notre Dame's success last year-Aca­demic All-America outfielder Dan Peltier and shortstop Pat Pesavento -both were at the conference. 
"We're going to use it as a measuring stick for the spring," said Pesavento, who was drafted in the 11th round by the Toronto Blue Jays last May. "It will show us how much we need to improve, and we're really looking forward to it. It's a great challenge." 
John Baxter, the general manager of the Class A Mid­west League's South Bend White Sox, also was present for the announcement. The South 
Bend  White Sox  play  their  
home  games  at  Coveleski  
Stadium.  

Miami coach Ron Fraser, whose 1,069 wins are the most of any active college baseball coach, spoke via telephone at the press conference. 
"I know quite a bit about Pat (Murphy), and he's done such an outstanding job," said. Fraser, who is entering his 27th year as Miami's head coach. "This (series) is good for col­lege baseball. It's tough to put together something like this, especially in football season. We're very happy he asked us, and we're hoping this can start a traditional thing." 
When Fraser was preparing the USA baseball team for the 1987 Pan American Games, he coached at Coveleski Stadiium 
see FRASER, page 18 


1st down, a season to go 
Keep informed about the Notre Dame football and basketball teams, students, faculty, and the changing campus. While. you are away, let The Observer bring . Notre Dame and Saint Mary's home to you. The Observer staff of more than 250 students wit! continue to cover all of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's news every day. 
Subscribe now and you'll be sure to stay informed during Notre Dame's drive to t~e national championship and through Father Malloy's second year as president. 
To subscribe now please send $40 for the entire school year or $25 for one semester to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 



