Sunny side up
IACCENT: An early mid-life crisis 
Partly sunny today with a high 
in the mid 30s. Partly cloudy 
tonight with the low in the mid 
20s.

IVIEWPOINT: A co-ed case study 



VOL. XXI, NO. 92 WEDNESDAY,__FE~RUARY 17, _1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 

Doyle and Viz will battle in run-off election 
Berger finishes in third 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 

Doyle and his running mate 
Mike Paese garnered 1,041 
votes or 26.4 percent of the total 
vote, Viz and running-mate 
Chris Boron received 698 votes 
or 17.7 percent. 
Finishing third was the ticket 
of Mary Berger and Mike Car­
rigan with 601 votes for 15.2 
percent. 
Further back was Michael 
Keegan and Laurin Dodd with 


Doyi&'Paese will not be penalized 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
The student body presiden­
tial ticket of Tom Doyle and 
Mike Paese will not be 
penalized for an Observer clas­
sified ad endorsing them, even 
though the ad ran after the of­
ficial campaigning period, said 
Jim Grace, Ombudsman co­
director. 
"There was no violation," Grace said. "(Doyle) and Paese have been cleared." 
The person who entered the 
ad "is not affiliated with the 
campaign," said Om­
budsman's other co-director 
John Wilson. "They can't con­
trol the whole campus. People 
are allowed to say what they 
want," he said. 
The ad ran Tuesday, after 
Monday's midnight deadline 
see DOYLE, page 4 

398 votes; Bill Pelino and Dana Togden with 397 votes; Ellen Nichols and David Lese with 338 votes; Christopher Johnson and Joe Shank with 222 votes; Chris Rado and Russell Hines with 160 votes; and Matt Micros and Pat Sheehan with 93 votes. 
Because none of the tickets received over 50 percent of the vote, a run-off will take place Thursday bewteen the Doyle and Viz tickets. Each ticket is allowed to campaign for a per­iod of 24 hours following the an­nouncement of the results, OBUD official Jim Grace said. 
The tickets will not be all­
Q) N lo-t ~ 0 rn ~ 0 rn
ocated any more funds for the 
•.-4 Q) 
~ ~ 0 "d 
-
:>., •.-4 -0
for the run-off, Grace added. 
0 > bO bO ..r:: rn ~ b 0 
lo-t 
Q) •.-4
Q) -u ~ ~
A total of 3,948 votes were 
~ z •.-4 0 
cast in this election, compared 

~ ::E 
-.. 
see ELECTIONS, page 6 


The Observer I Jim Carroll Senior Mike Jaeger, right, and freshman Jennifer Linting sit comfortably on the floor of the student government offices as they undertake the arduous task of counting ballots. Stories on the election results above and below right. 


Bush, Dukakis win N.H. primary 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. -Vice Pres­ident George Bush defeated Sen. Bob Dole in New Hampshire's kick-off presiden­tial primary Tuesday, dramatically regaining his footing in the Republican race for the White House. Michael 
Dukakis  won  handily  in  the  
Democratic  struggle  for  
supremacy and survival.  

Dukakis relegated Rep. Richard Gephardt and Sen. Paul Simon to scrap for second place and said his New En­the Bush forces on oil import gland win would "give us a fees and taxes. very, very strong boost" going "This is one step along the into the delegate-rich southern road," Dole said. "It makes the primaries just ahead. climb a little steeper, but it 

doesn't make it impossible. I feel that had we won, it would 
have been spectacular. Weal­most won. That's good." 
Bush, rebounding smartly from his third place finish in Gephardt led Simon in their the Iowa caucuses last week, tense duel for Democratic ended Dole's dream of taking runner-up behind Dukakis. early control over the GOP CBS projected that Gephardt campaign. Dole blamed his loss on inaccurate attacks by see PRIMARY, page 5 


rw;e;; 
New grade changes approved by council 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Managing Editor 
Notre Dame's Academic Council voted Tuesday to add "B + , " "C + " and "C-" marks to the University's grading sys­tem beginning in the fall. 
The council also agreed to several principles that will shape Notre Dame's future academic calendars, said Dean Daniel Winicur, University registrar. _ 
The principles, which also will take effect in the fall, in­clude changing the Wednesday before Thanksgiving from a half class day to a full day, Winicur said. 
The council, com­posed of faculty, administra­tors and students, voted "overwhelmingly" to change the current grading system, Winicur said. 
Under the new system, a "B +" will carry a 3.33 grade point, while an "A-" will be bumped from a 3.5 to a 3.67 grade point, Winicur said. A similar division will be made for the "C +"and "B-" grades. A "C-" will carry a 1.67 grade point. 
There will be no "A + , " "D +" or "D-" grades, he said. 
The change in the grading system will not affect grades earned in the past, Winicur said. 
"It will be as ifyou've started new with the new system," Winicur said. "We're not changing history.'' 
Students' transcripts will show grades earned under both the old and new grading sys­tems, Winicur said. Transcripts will also carry an explanation of the old and new systems. 
The change will not affect the grade point average needed to 
see PLUS, page 6 

Runoff for District 3; other races are final 
By JIM RILEY Pat Kiernan won in Dis­
News Editor 
trict 1 with 636 votes to 369 
Mark Chapman and Matt for Billy Joel. The district in­Thiel will face each other in cludes Keenan and Stanford a run-off election Thursday Halls, and several South after each received less than Quad dorms. 50 percent of the votes in the three-way District 3 race. According to unofficial 
In a close contest, Thiel results, Mary Feliz defeated won 393 votes (42.9 percent) Tom Ehrhardt in District 2, to Chapman's 390 votes (42.6 which includes five North percent). Maeve O'Donovan Quad dorms. finished third with 133 votes 
(14.5 percent). ... SENATE. page 4 

~-~ --~ 
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, February 17, 1988 


In Brief 
Walter Bartholomew, was still in the coronary care unit of Memorial Hospital early this morning. Bar­tholomew, an assistant director in the administrative com­puting department, was taken to Memorial Hospital after complaining of chest pains Monday afternoon. No deter­mination of whether he had a heart attack was made at that time. The hospital would release no further informa­tion this morning. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Career decision making workshops will be held tonight from 6:30 to 8 for undeclared1mdecided sop­homores at the University Counseling Center in Room 300. 
-The Observer 
A Mexican lunch will be served at the Center for Social Concerns tomorrow from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. This lunch will benefit the CILA Mexico Service Program. 
-The Observer 
Taxation of scholarship information will be provided to undergraduates tomorrow from 9:30 to 10:30 a.m. in Room 123 Haggar Hall. Students who have scholar­ships-grants which pay for more than tuition, fees, books and supplies are required to report this amount on their tax return. There is one last meeting scheduled for Wed­nesday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. if you cannot attend tomorrow's meeting. -The Observer 
PrayerVigil for Peace begins tonightat6 (following the liturgy at 5) in Sacred Heart Church. Hourly assign­ments are by residence halls and departmentl;l. The vigil concludes with the 11:30 a.m. liturgy on Friday. -The Ob­server 
Ash Wednesday liturgy is today at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Father Drew Christiansen, SJ, will be the presider. Music will be led by the Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
-The Observer 
Notre Dame Bridge Club meets again tonight in the basement of Alumru Hall from 11 to midnight. -The Observer 
"Children of Apartheid" is the title of a film that will be shown at 7:30 tonight in the Zahm Hall Party Room. A discussion will follow the movie. This is sponsored by St. Ed's, Farley, and Zahm Halls. -The Observer 
Deadline for F AF's to reach CSS is Feb. 28. Forms are available in the Financial Aid Office, Room 103 Ad­ministration Building. -The Observer 
Campus Bible Fellowship will hold a retreat in Auburn, Ind. Feb. 19 and 20. Call277-8471 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
Finance Club is sponsoring a Chicago trip for May 3 and 4. A meeting will be held tonight at 7 in Room 223 Hayes-Healy for anyone interested in attending. Call Chip at 1421 or Pat at 1473 for more information. -The Observer 
All theology majors, minors, and faculty are invited to Ash Wednesday Mass at 5 p.m. in the Log Chapel. Father Edward Malloy will be celebrating. -The Observer 
The Women's Caucus will meet tonight at 7 in the faculty lounge of the Hesburgh Library. For more infor­mation, contact Catherine Francis at 233-7295. -The Ob­server 
Right to Life will have a phone-a-thon for the women's care center every night from now to Feb. 25. Callers are needed every night from 6 to 9. The phone-a-thon is held in. Room 212 of the Administration Building. Call John Hrrschfeld at 239-7735 for more information. 

Design Editor .................. Lisa Tugman Photographer............... .. .. .. Jim Carroll Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allison Cocks Typists........ ...................... Will Zamer Typesetters .......................... Tom Elliott ............................................ Jen Conlon .................................. Becky Gunderman ND Day Editor ............... Carrie McCall News Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning Sports Wednesday Editor .. Brian O'Gara COPII Editor .. ... ... ... . . . . .. . . .. ... Liz Panzica Sports Wednesday Layout .. Joe Zadrozny Sports Copy Editor ................ Pete Skiko Design Assistants ............... Kathy Gliwa Viewpoint Layout...... . . .. Laura Manzi ....................... :: ................... Kim Nugent Accent Copy Editor......... Susan Buckley Slotman ............................. Regis Coccia Accent Layout.. ............... Heather Hypes 
De Otlllner (USPS S99 2-<WOO) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& cum and vacation periods. ne OIIMrYer is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writi1111 ne OIIMner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S56. 
ne OIIMner is • member or ne Aaodaled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Forget fasting, fellas: Meatless meals are mean 
Lunchtime, thank Heavens. That nap I took 
from 11:15 to 12:05 in Cushing sure put me in 
the mood for a good meal. Oh, well, the Dining 
Hall will have to do. 
I trudge through the residual snow and slush 
from Cushing to that bastion of haute cuisine, 
South Dining Hall. Pick up The Observer for 
some diversionary reading (hm, I see I'm in 
East Rutherford, N.J., today). As usual, the 
line's slower than a thoroughbred on crutches. 
Let's see what's on the menu for today. 
Cheese and Vegetarian Pizza (pass), Garden 
Vegetable Quiche (where else do you grow 
vegetables?) and Blueberry Pancakes. Did I 
miss something by being on the back page for 
so long? Did Bill Hickey rescind his threat to 
cancel all special meals and declare today 
Vegetarian Victory Day? 
This line's still not going anywhere. I wonder 
what epicurean epitomes await my palate at 
dinner. Three Cheese Croissant (one is not 
enough), Catfish with Tartar Sauce (do y'all 
know what a catfish eats?), Pasta Bar (I'll have 
a Rotini and Coke) and Stuffed Shells (for al­
most four years now I've been trying to figure 
out what they're stuffed with). 
Now it hits me. Yesterday was Mardi Gras (I can tell by the hangover). That means today is the official start of Lent. That means 40 days . of University Food Service deciding that those of us with meal plans won't be eating any meat on Fridays. Thank you, Food Service, my Jiminy Cricket just died, and I was looking for 
a new outside conscience. 
I won't even bring up the argument that this 
blatantly discriminates against the minority of 
non-Catholics at this University. That point is 
usually rebutted by that ever-so-intelligent-and­
witty comment, "If you don't like it, you didn't 
have to come here." As if the food around here 
was the major factor in anyone's decision to 
attend Notre Dame (if it was, I don't think 
there'd be too many people here right now). 
Yes, I understand the sacrifice behind going 
meatless. I choose not to sacrifice meat. Hey, 
stone me. I don't see the theological sig­
nificance of eating a bacon double cheeseburger 
on Friday. To say that eating a cheeseburger 
is somehow sinful, is (excuse me, father, for 
I'm about to sin) to me absurd. 
It is not Food Service's place to decide what 
I should give up for Lent. If I want meat on Friday, then that option should be available. Every other night, they have that 'Fast Fare' option which is usually something edible. Why no~ serve sandwiches or burgers there on Fnday? That way, everyone is satisfied, those who choose to follow the Churches proscriptions and those blasphemers like me. 

I hear a reply right now, "Why don't you just go off -campus or to the Huddle?" My answer is, why should I? I've already paid for one meal on my meal plan. Why should I be forced into a situation where I have to pay twice to eat once? 
Unfortunately, that's the only option open to me. No more going out on Friday nights. I have to save my pennies to eat because of yet another example of that most famous of all Notre Dame traditions, in loco parentis, which to me is just plumb loco. 
Well, enjoy your meal. We sinners are on our way to McDonald's. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. fqr details. 
Get Involved in the 

World ofAdvertising 
NOW 
Create &Promote multi-thousand dollar advertising campaigns 
We need volunteers In the following areas: 
copy writing ad design muketlng promotional concepts 

Experienced and non-experienced positions available 
Pick up applications at the Secretary's desk 2nd Floor LaFortune Applications are due Thursday, February 25th 


-----------------------------~~ 
Wednesday, February 17, 1988 
More bar raids likely in future, say police 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
South Bend bars and taverns can expect more raids in the near future, similar to the one at Tivoli's, said St. Joseph County Sheriff Joseph Nagy Tuesday. 
"I think if we continue to get the intelligence information," Nagy said, "we will continue to make more busts in our area for underage drinking. 
"There's quite a bit of infor­mation that either we or the state excise or state police has developed," he said. "Now we just need to sit down and see how much of it is actual fact and what is not." 
Nagy said although Tues­day's raid netted only four tick­ets for underage drinking, he was happy with its results. "We sent a message to people who sell to underage drinkers that we will and are watching them," Nagy said. 
"We did expect more 
Students: JOIN OUR CREW! AJOB THAT PAYS IN MANY WAYS. 
Why no1 work a lew hours a -ek at your nearby Rax Restaurant! 
WE OFFER: 
• 
Flexible Scheduling 

• 
Paid Training 

• 
sooro Meal Discount 

• 
1'0% Off-duty Meal Discount For Yourself & Family 

• 
Furnished Uniforms 

• 
Pleasant, Upbeat Work Environment 


If this sounds like a good way to earn a few extra dollars, by working a few hours a week then stop by your local Rax Restaurant between 2:00 and 5:00. p.m. 
Located at: 
52770 US 33 North 536 W. McKinley (Mishawaka) 
THE LRST MRRR I RGE PREPRRRTI ON RETREAT 
offered Spring Semester is: 
RPRIL 15-16th ... 

1\._eservations for tfiis ~treat must 6e matfe no [ater tfian: 9v{J712?_CJ-{ 11 tfi 
This Retreat is limited to 1 B couples 
For more information call the Office of Campus Ministry Badin Hall -239-5242 
(underage drinkers) in the place," he said. 
However, Nagy said, Tivoli's patrons knew about the raid in advance. The customers received a tip at about 9:30 p.m., he said. Although about 30 police officers were briefed in the Joyce ACC before the raid, he said the tip was not from a Notre Dame student or administrator. 
All 500 of the bar's patrons were checked for I.D., Nagy said. None of the four cited for underage drinking were Notre Dame or Saint Mary's stu­dents. Six were arrested for disorderly conduct including Notre Dame law student Shan­non Hough. 
Nagy said Tivoli's was cho­sen because of intelligence in­formation police had developed over the last two or three months. 
This information comes from parent's complaints and "send­ing in officers to certain places and absorbing" information, he said. 
RMrfS 

-
page 3

The Observer 
Get out and vote 
Junior Dave Faliszek, Judicial Chairman for Cavanaugh Hall, oversees the voting in the hall Tues­day. Residents Dave Rea, Mike Bohn, John 


Wariness can stop date rape 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
Date rape among college stu­dents affects both men and wo­men, on and off-campus. One in four college women will ex­perience sexual assault or at­tempted assault, according to research by Mary Koss, a pro­fessor of psychology at Kent State University. 
Koss spoke Tuesday night at Saint Mary's on the results of a survey of more than 6,000 stu­dents at 32 colleges and univer­sities she conducted in 1984 in collaboration with Ms. maga­zine. Her lecture was spon­sored by C.A.R.E., the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination, a group of students and admi­nistrators from five area col­leges. 
The statistics of date rape are startling. More than 84 per­cent of college women said they knew the man who raped them and 57 percent of the offenders were dates, Koss said. 
One way to solve the problem of rape to change men's atti­tudes toward sex, said Koss. 
"I really think that men have an important role to play in this," Koss said. "The best way 

Wednesday, 17 February 9:oo a.m.-lo:oo p.m 
You must bring your student lD card and You must register at this time to attend the weekend events. Tickets will be contained in your registration package along with weekend information 
1ne Utlserver 1 Jim Garron 

Schloegel, and Dan Webster cast their ballots in the Student Government elections which resulted in a run-off election for Thursday. 

men can help is to counteract the 'scoring' mentality. You can't just stand around when others (talk about 'doing it'). Being part of the solution means to have the courage to stand up and to hope that we can stop this." 
Alcohol can also be a large factor in date rape, Koss said, adding that it can reduce in­hibitions and increase aggres­sive behavior. "You would still have date rape if you took away alcohol, it just wouldn't be as big of a problem," she said. 
Koss said her research revealed that college men share common views about sexual intercourse. "Men tend to say, 'How do I know that this no means no?' Men get the idea that women like to get roughed up during sex. (Research showed) the major emotion that men felt (after forced in­tercourse) was pride. They felt they scored," said Koss. 
"Most people think that date rape is something less than rape, that it isn't really rape," said Koss. "There are no dif­ferences. As far as psychology is concerned, the hurt is the same." 
Koss said the largest risk fac­tor in date rape is dating. "I don't say stop dating. The ap­propriate way to deter it is to be wary," she said. 
"Appropriate wariness 
means asking yourself, 'Do I 
want to be in an isolated place 
with this guy?"' said Koss. 
"You can't blame yourself if 
you make a mistake, but you 
can be wary." 
But Koss warned against put­
ting unnecessary blame on wo­
men. "You can't put women in 
a 'Catch-22' situation. The way 
we dress is part of socializa­
tion," she said. "We're forced 
to toe the fine line between 
looking seductive and attrac­
tive, but not to go too far," Koss 
said, adding that society tends 
to dwell on the actions of the 
rape victim. 
"Rape victims will tell you 
that they made their non­
consent clear, that they used 
force in trying to resist and 
when they finally realized that 
(their attacker) was not going 
to stop, the major emotion they 
felt was fear," Koss said. "The 
fears of rape do not go away 
until after one and a half years, 
but anxiety outlasts them all," 
Koss said, citing research on 
the subject. 
"You snowd always have tne 
right to say no." 


------~----------~--­
page 4 Tyson joins council; Sibs weekend back 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
Staff Reporter 
Change was the dominant theme as Student Body Presi­dent Pat Cooke brought this year's first meeting of the Campus Life Council (CLC) to order Tuesday. 

The first change Cooke pro­posed was to have future meetings of the CLC co-chaired by the student body president and the vioe president for Stu­dent Mfairs, presently Father David Tyson, rather than the student body president alone. Cooke said this proposal was for the sake of continuity. 
"Presently, the leadership of the council changes over from year to year," he said. "As a result, the CLC has not func­tioned in the same capacity any two consecutive years," he added. He explained that the existance of a non-changing co­chairman such as Tyson "would offer the continuity necessary to make this body 
(CLC) successful." 

Tyson was removed from the CLC in the fall of 1985, said Cooke, because his presence was believed by some former council members to inhibit cre­ative discussion among other council members. John Goldrick, associate vice presi­dent for residence life, told the council he did not think this would be a problem this year, sighting Father Hesburgh's former work with the Aca­demic Council as a parallel ex­ample which worked without any conflicts. 
The second change proposed by Cooke was that an executive committee be formed consist­ing of one rector, one faculty member, one senator, and Goldrick, which would be chaired by the student body president. Cooke said the exec­utive committee ''will screen all business as well as generate business for the CLC agenda." Presently the agenda is set ex­clusively by the student body president. 
"By providing an executive committee for the council," 

LAST YW 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl. miiiiiTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

Your education will not end with graduation. As a grad­uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orient~ion where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Spring grarJuates apply now for positions available in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital, Personnel Services, Nursing Recruitment Section, 201 West Center Street, 
Rochester, MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
Rochester Methodist HosE_ita_l_ 
A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSI'ITAl 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 
said Cooke, "rectors, faculty, and students will all have· input in formulating the agenda." The idea was well received by all committee members. 
Cooke said both changes would be implemented on a trial basis and, if successful, "the (CLC) by-laws will be amended," to accomodate them permanently. 

The next order of business was a proposal to add Sopho­more Sibs Weekend to the an­nual calendar of campus events. Laurie Hollenbeck pre­sented the proposal. She said the weekend of April 15-17 would be the best weekend for the event since it is during the Senior Formal in Chicago. This would lesson any overcrowding the siblings might cause and there would most likely not be any SYR's that weekend she explained. 
She also said the number of sophomores allowed to partic­ipate would be limited to 100. She stressed that the limited number would allow more op­portunities for the smaller group than for a larger group of students and their siblings. She also added the siblings from 100 people could vary, but still not exceed an unreasona­ble number. 
Goldrick and Cooke lauded the limit, sighting the immense overcrowding on campus that the event caused in 1982. Goldrick also told the commit­tee that the number could be expanded, much as JPW has the past 15 years, without a great deal of bureaucracy by working through the appropri­ate people in the administra­tion. 
The proposal was unani­mously approved and Cooke set the next meeting for March 2 at 3:30p.m. 
The CLC is composed of stu­dent senators, faculty mem­bers, hall rectors, Cooke, and Goldrick. It must present all its approved legislation to Tyson who has the power to veto them, implement them, or present them to the Board of Trustees, if necessary. 
Wednesday, February 17, 1988 
continue campaigning. No in­He said he'll concentrate on crease in campaign budgets picking up votes from Howard 
continued from page 1 
will be allowed. Hall, the hall where former Tom Rask won the District 4 "Basically my budget is challenger O'Donovan lives. race, defeating Bob Huston 545-already used up," said Chap­Thiel said he'd also spent 
399. The district includes the man. He said he plans to go most of his campaign money, Pasquerillas and the towers. door to door to make personal though he still has some posters 
In the off-campus race, Spero contact with as many voters as he didn't put up before the first Karas won 118 votes to Kevin possible. election. Crooks' 65. "The difference was three 
The run-off candidates will votes, so every vote counts," He said he would also concen­have until midnight tonight to Chapman said. trate on personal contact. 
If Doyle, Paese or someone were really upset about it." 
from their campaign had put

Doyle 
the ad in then there would have Grace said one of the been a "major violation," presidential tickets had previ­
continued from page 1 
Grace said. "He has a respon­ously been forced to take $2.50 for official campaigning. It sibilty to control his organiza­worth of campaign postersread, "Vote Doyle-Paese Vote tion but he can't control every­down after OBUD discovered for Tom Doyle and Mike Paese one on campus," he said. they had been put up before 
TODAY!!!!" campaigning officially began. 
''Any campaigning before or Junior Chris Hasbrook, who after the specified period is a put the ad in, said he likes OBUD had also previously violation of campaign rules, Doyle and Paese. "I didn't discovered that a ticket had 
the penalty for which ranges know it was illegal," he said. gotten endorsements earlier from a minimun of 30 percent "They had no idea about it. than election rules allowed. of campaign limit to a maxi­They didn't solicit me." They were also forced to take mum of forfeiture of can­posters down when the en­didacy," election rules state. "He wasn't part of our cam­dorsements were rescinded. 
"A $125 campaign limit is set paign. It's really hard to con­Grace declined to name for all candidates' tickets." either ticket. 
trol people," said Paese, "We 
THE OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY presents 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

A PROGRAM FOR COUPLES IN A SERIOUS RELATIONSHIP WHO WANT TO EXPLORE CHOICES AND DECISIONS FOR THE FUTURE, WHICH INCLUDE AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE POSSIBILITY OF MARRIAGE. 
SATURDAY, FEB.27TH 12-5pm 
Topics to be presented: -Stages of relationships -EHpectations for the future -Steps in mak:ing healthy decisions 
Pre-registration is required. Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office, Library Concourse or Badin Hall. 
Applications are due by Feb. 22nd 
-
OFFICEO~ 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
------------~~--~-~-­

By DAN MURPHY New staff 
The Hall Presidents' Council voted in favor of an amend­ment to create a Student Busi­ness Board which will assume the Student Union Board's job of overseeing student busi­nesses. 
The new board's purpose is to "provide commercial ser­vices to the Notre Dame com­munity in a fair and competi­tive manner" according to the amendment, presented by Brian Holst, District 1 student senator. Student Body Presi­dent Pat Cooke said, "the new system will allow for a com­plete check on what is going on in the businesses. The Cellar, Irish Gardens and Adworks are the three businesses that will be controlled by the Student Business Board." 
Two additional amendments proposed by Holst and Cooke were rejected by the HPC. The first proposed the addition of a 

SUNDAY, MARCH 6 7:30pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM / ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 (includes $.50 lor Building Improvement Fund) TICKETS ON SALE NOW1 · AVAILABLEi AT THE CIVIC AUDITOF!_IUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS. RECORDS AND TAPES AND J.R.'S. 9) 284-9190 
student senator to the Student Union Board Steering Commit­tee. 
The second planned to alter student government's amend­ment procedure, allowing the senate to adopt an amendment by a three-quarters vote with­out consent of the HPC. Defend­ing the second proposal, Holst said, "No one is trying to pull anything over anyone, we're just trying to eliminate bureau­cracy." 
The Gong Show is slated for March 29, according to sopho­more Betsy Joseph. She told the HPC that the show is looking for acts and will benefit St. Hedwig's Outreach Pro­gram. "If it's ridiculously stupid we want it," said Joseph. 
Another show, the Keenan Rebuttal, will hold tryouts March 5, said Kathleen Maglicic, president of Breen­Phillips Hall. She stressed the need for acts for the show. 
A King and Queen of the Irish will be elected during a week of "St. Patrick's Day events" according to Brian Reilly, next year's Student Union Board Manager. Reilly told each hall president to "nominate one person who best exemplifies the spirit of the hall." During the week of Feb. 29 students will vote for their favorite can­didate in Lafortune Student Center, and on March 2 nominees will compete in various events at Theodore's. 
AIDS fund to get donation from SMC 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
kinkO'S' 
creat copies. creat people. 
18187 State Road 23 South Bend, Indiana 46637 Telephone 219 271-0398 
The Observer· 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
ASSIST ANT SPORTS EDITORS (2) 
Personal statements are due Monday by 5 p.m. in the Observer office. Questions may be addressed to 
Marty Strasen at 239-5303. 
immunity system battled virus for three years before his death on Jan. 9. Meyerhofer learned of Teder's death from the boy's godfather who belongs to the professor's church. 
Teder contracted AIDS after receiving a blood transfusion infected with the virus for a car accident in 1982. 
Also, a new committee was created to critique and make suggestions about the food served in SAGA, said Eileen Hetterich, student body presi­dent, who explained that Marie VonFeldt, residence director of Holy Cross Hall, made the pro­posal. 
The seven or eight-person committee will include one hall director, a resident advisor, one representative from each hall, and a representative from student government. 
The committee will meet once a month for dinner in SAGA with Paul Bakker, food service director, and Ann Bonifas, a SAGA manager. 
The first meeting will be run by Bakker and Bonifas, but in the future they want the stu­dents to conduct the meetings. 
In other business, Election Commissioner Frances Thompson asked fellow council members to write down ques­tions to ask the candidates on meet the candidates on Mon­day night, Feb.22. 
Thompson signed up mem­bers to work the polls at SAGA on election day, Wednesday, Feb. 24. 
Because there are six tickets running, Thompson said she thinks that a run-off on Feb. 26 is inevitable. 
IAMERICAN 
f~· 
By JULIE RYAN News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance decided Tuesday to donate $500 to Professor Nic­holas Meyerhofer's AIDS fund and created a food committee. 
The Board will donate money to an AIDS fund started by Meyerhofer, a foreign lan­guage professor at the College. 
The fund will be used to help pay the funeral and medical ex­penses of Richie Teders, a thirteen-year-old boy whose 

Wednesday, February 17, 1988
page6 The Observer 
UMass students get support 
Associated Press 
AMHERST, Mass. -More than 500 white University of Massachusetts students rallied Tuesday in support of minorities occupying a build­ing to protest racial harass­ment, while the chancellor opened talks aimed at ending the five-day protest. 
"Hey Joe, racism has got to go," students chanted as Chan­cellor Joseph Duffey made his way to the New Mrica House, which has been occupied since Friday morning by an esti­mated 200 students and several faculty members. 
A student spokesman said the negotiations would be con­ducted by a nine-member com­mittee and witnessed by all the protesters~ who include blacks, Hispanics and Asians. 
Students and faculty also read letters of support, includ­ing a message sent Tuesday by Democratic presidential can­didate Jesse Jackson. Some supporters had traveled from Albany and Philadelphia, and local businesses and residents had sent protesters blankets, pillows and food. 
"I came to see if they needed any help,'' said Michelle Nor­man, 21, a senior from Pleasan­ton, Calif., who added that she was missing two classes to at­tend the vigil. "I think it's a good cause." 
Jackson, a Democratic presidential contender who was in nearby New Hampshire for Tuesday's primary ballot­ing, called the protesters at 
9:15 a.m. to lend his support. 
The protesters said they would meet with Chancellor Joseph Duffey at 1 p.m. to negotiate on a revised set of demands, which a spokesman for the group declined to detail. They vowed to remain until Duffey agrees to their condi­tions. 
By CHRIS SKORCZ Peace Corps reflects an in­Staff Reporter crease in those nations' re­quests for American volun­
Steve Rypkema, area repre­teers. Rypkema estimated that sentative of the Peace Corps, approximately "one half of the which will be recruiting on positions are in Mrica with campus next week, projects a about one quarter in Asia and dramatic increase in Peace the Pacific and one quarter in Corps positions projected over Latin America." the next five years. For current seniors, Ryp­
"There will be an increase of kema said, the Peace Corps of­800 jobs each year for the next fers a good opportunity to earn five years. Currently there are some practical experience as about 2500 volunteer positions well as a chance to travel open annually and that number around the world and experi­will rise to about 3300," he said. ence new and different cul­
Rypkema will present a film tures. He said that often and discuss Peace Corps volun­graduating students are teer opportunities tonight at 7 uncertain as to what they want at the Center for Social Con­to do or they is not yet ready cerns. The Peace Corps will be to enter graduate school. The on campus recruiting next Peace Corps, said Rypkema, Wednesday and Thursday, accepts applications from and Feb. 24 25. offers positions to graduates in 
The increase in positions in all disciplines. virtually all of the 60 plus na­"Placement naturally tions worldwide served by the depends upon the person's 
Plus 
continued from page 1 
remain in good academic standing or that needed to make the Dean's List, he said. 
The change also will not af­feet the G .P.A.'s needed to earn degrees with honors (3.4), high honors (3.6), or highest honors (3.8), Winicur said. A student's grade point averages under the old and new systems will be averaged together to deter­mine his final G.P.A. 
The council's vote came about three months after the Student Senate approved a resolution calling for a system which includes plus grades. A survey of more than 1,000 stu­dents last fall indicated about 80 percent favored such a sys­tem. 
Notre Dame students have 
said the current grading sys­
tem makes their G.P.A.'s 
lower than those of other 
schools' students. They also 
complained that prospective 
employers might not realize 
that the University's current 
system does not include plus 
grades as do other schools. 
In addition to the new 
grading system, the council ap­
proved seven specific aca­
demic calendar models, each 
tied to the day on which 
Christmas falls, Winicur said. 
Richard Conklin, assistant 
vice president for University Relations. said the principles govermng all seven academic calendars include: 
• 
Classes ordinarily will not start before the Tuesday before Labor Day. 

• 
Graduation ceremonies will be held on the third Sunday of May. 

• 
The number of class days per semester will ordinarily not be fewer than 70. 

• 
Fall semester final exams will end no later than Dec. 21. 

• 
There will ordinarily be three and a half weeks between the end of the fall term and the beginning of spring semester classes. 

• 
When there are fewer than nine class days between spring break and Easter break, spring break will be moved. Holy Week and spring break will never be over the same period. 

• 
The Wednesday before Thanksgiving will be a full class day. 


Most of these principles have already been in effect and are not actual changes to the calen­dar, Winicur said. The council, however, had not approved them until Tuesday. 
Because Saint Mary's main­tains a common academic calendar with Notre Dame, University and College officials will discuss the changes made by the council, Winicur said. 
It is unlikely, however, that the changes will be rescinded, he said. 

Security Beat 
February 14 
4:20 p.m. Notre Dame Security apprehended a fugitive who was wanted for failing to appear in St. Joseph court at the South Dining Hall. He was then transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
4:12p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported that he lost his Notre Dame class ring somewhere between Washington Hall and Stanford at about 3:45p.m. His loss is est. at $375. 
February 15 
2:14a.m. Six Notre Dame students reported that their cars were broken into and vandalised while parked in the D2 Lot. In all cases, windows were smashed and attempts were made to remove stereo equipment. Their losses are unknown. 
II:30 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of Food Coupon Books from the JACC sometime between 5:00p.m. on 2!12 and II:OOa.m. on 2/I5. The Joss is est. at $300. 
12:40 p.m. A University employee reported that a vending machine in the Knights of Columbus building was vandalised sometime between 9:35a.m. on 2/12 and 9:35a.m. on 2/15. The loss is est. at $10. 
5:09 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall reported that his wallet and credit cards were taken from the men's locker room in the JACC at about 5:00p.m. His loss is est. at $20. 
4:45 p.m. A WNDU employee reported the theft of his wallet from the men's locker room at the J A C C sometime between 4:20 and 4:30p.m. His Joss is est. at $9. 
5:54 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported that she. lost her ID case and contents at the Alumni/Senior Club at about !O:OOp.m. Her Joss is unknown. 
9:00 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported that she lost her gold bracelet somewhere between the Hesburgh Library and LaFortune Hall sometime between 7:00 and 9:00p.m. Her loss is est. at $50. 
IO:OI p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported that a Handicapped Golf Cart was taken from in front of Dillon Hall sometime between 8:45 and !O:OOp.m. 
Peace Corps seeking seniors for international service 
background,'' saidRypkema, a Southern Illinois University graduate who spent two years working with the Bureau of Forest Development in the Philippines before joining the Peace Corps as a recruiter. "We welcome individuals with technical backgrounds such as the sciences, engineering, etc. However, liberal arts majors are needed as well to serve as 
"There will be an increase of 800 jobs each year for the next five years." 
teachers of English or to work with local communities' agricultural extension and de­velopment. It depends upon the person's work experience and undergraduate concentration. Even a liberal arts major may have enough science to teach in a forestry or fishery pro­gram." 
Rypkema pointed out the recently added benefit of for­giveness of National Direct Student Loans for those volun­teers who took out the federal loans on or after July 1, 1987. 
According to a Peace Corps news publication, the forgive­ness provisions involve a can­cellation of 15% of a volunteer's total loan obligation plus ac­crued interest for each of the first andlor second complete years of hisher Peace Corps service. 
For each of the third and-Or fourth complete years of ser­vice, 20% of a volunteer's total loan obligation (including in­terest) will be forgiven. The provision applies only to those borrowers who have no out­standing balance of principle or interest owed on any loan as of July 1, 1987. 
"It is important that prospec­tive Peace Corps volunteers have experience in volunteer programs," said Rypkema. "Our hope is that there will be more openings for generalists because of the increase in openings overall.'' 
All volunteers begin their 
service with three months of in­
tensive training in language 
and technical skills. Rypkema 
said that most volunteers will 
undergo almost 200 hours of 
language training in addition to 
the country specific training 
necessary for the individual's 
particular assignment. 
Assignments are typically 
for two years after the three 
month training period. Volun­
teers may reapply and be as­
signed to another location for 
another tour of duty. 
Rypkema said that the Peace 
Corps recruits like most other 
businesses that visit Notre 
Dame. He emphasized the 
competitive nature of the 
recuriting process stating, that 
involved in student govern­ment if he is elected. 
Elections 
continued from page 1 Paese said they would "get out and talk to as many people to 3,711 votes cast last year. as we can, let them know we're 
Grace was not pleased with out there" during the cam­the turnout. "You're not even paigning period. getting half the campus," he Viz was "pleased" with the said, but added that the elec­results, but said he and Boron tion did go "smoothly." "have a little work to do.'' 
"We're happy to make the Doyle was "elated" at the run-off with nine tickets, but election results. certainly we have a lot of work 
"It's been a good week be­between now and Thursday," cause we've covered a lot of he said. ground, we tried to get around 
to every dorm on campus," Viz said they would concen­Doyle said. trate on dorms they did not do 
"The thing that has taken us well in Tuesday, but was con­through the week ... is people's fident they could make up the interest. People are interested 300 votes separating him and in what we have to say," he Doyle. added. "If other elections prove to 
be an indicator, the run-off is Doyle said he hoped to get a new election and nobody can some of the other candidates sit back and just count on what 
II :30 p.m. Two South Bend teenagers were found trespasssing in the JACC and were asked to leave. 
February 16 
6:05 pm. A Flanner Hall resident reported that his vehicle was vandalised and his stereo taken while it was parked in the D2 Lot at about 3:46p.m. His loss is unkown. 
12:10 p.m. A Grace hall resident reported that his car was struck while he was parked near Gate 3 of the JACC. There were no injuries and damage was minimal. 
12:40 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported that his car was vandalised while it was parked in the D2 Lot. His rear side window was broken. 
3:15p.m. A Notre Dame Student Security Officer reported that a car was vandalised while parked in the Decio Faculty circle. The side rear window was smashed. 
5:08 p.m.A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his sweater from his room sometime between 2/12 and 2/16. His loss is est. at $40. 

only one of every seven appli­cants actually go overseas. One deterrent is the lengthy appli­cation process that takes from three to nine months. Also some applicants are eliminated for health or legal reasons. 
Rypkema said that the benefits from involvement in the Peace Corps far outweigh such drawbacks. He said that the Peace Corps is an "oppor­tunity to live in a different country and culture and to see the United States from a differ­ent perspective. It broadens one's views and gives the volunteer first hand experience dealing with different peoples and the problems they face." 
The goals of the Peace Corps, as. originally set by Congress, are as follows: to help promote world peace and friendship; to help developing countries to meet their needs for skilled men and women; to help promote mutual understanding between the people of the United States and those of de­veloping nations. The Peace Corps was created on March 1, 1961 during the Adminsitration of President Kennedy. 
For those unable to attend Wednesday's film and discus­sion the Peace Corps offers a toll free number. The number of the Chicago office from which Rypkema recruits is 1 800 621 3670. 
they d1d m the trrst election. It's a brand new election " noted Viz. ' 
Each candidate carried at least one dorm in the vote to­tals. 
Grace supported home can­didate Doyle, who captured 13 dorms, while Viz and Boron won only Flanner Hall, Viz's home dorm. 
Berger and Carrigan won three dorms, including home dorms of Breen-Phillips and Dillon halls; Keegan and Dodd won their home dorm of Alumni Hall, and Pelino and Togni, who won Pelino's home dorm of St. Ed's, won two dorms. 
Johnson won Stanford, Nic­hols won Pasquerilla West, Rado captured Holy Cross and Micros took the off-campus vote. 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, February 17, 1988 page 7 
P.O. Box Q
Co-ed housing works in London 
Over 95 percent of the colleges and The creation of co-ed housing can universities in the United States offer only strengthen the so-called "Notre their students co-ed housing; Notre Dame Community." By bringing. men Dame does not. Most, if not all, of the and women closer, one creates a closer, top 25 schools offer co-ed housing; more balanced community. Our "com­Notre Dame does not. Most of the better munity" in London is closer than the Catholic institutions, including Holy single sex "communities" on campus. Cross, Boston College and Georgetown By sharing a common home, men and offer co-ed housing; Notre Dame does women learn how to respect and appre­not. With just about every other signif­ciate each other. Any worthwhile com­icant school in the country offering co­munity cannot tolerate segregation. ed housing, why has Notre Dame just Whether by race, creed or even sex, now begun to consider testing the idea? segregation limits the interaction of 
people. Interaction, especially at a uni­
Tom Varnum versity, enhances education. 
Co-ed housing will improve the per­
sonal relationships between men and
guest column 

women. In our co-ed situation in Lon­
don, men and women meet as friends 
Ah, but wait! As a matter of fact sharing a common living experience Notre Dame actually offers co-ed rather than "pick-up artists" sharing housing, though you have to travel quite a common "scope." Presently, oppor­a way to find it (no, not Turtle Creek). tunities for men and women to meet As a member of the Arts and Letters socially at Notre Dame are severly lim­London Program, I live in a co-ed dorm. ited. Too often, these meetings are Like the arrangements at many other restricted to loud, drunken fests: "Hi, schools, including Boston College and what's your name? Where are you Harvard, our dorm has single sex from? What's your major? Wanna floors: the second and fourth are come up to my room and see my stamp female, the third and fifth male. We collection (wink, wink, nudge, use the same stairs, soda machines, nudge)?" telephones, lounges, bathrooms and We are all adults at Notre Dame and <gasp!) showers. Co-ed living only ex­should be treated as such. We are old tends so far, however, co-ed showering enough to understand the responsibility is not permitted (duLac, you know). and maturity which accompanies co-ed 
I have been here for a couple of weeks housing. For many years, the London now, and I have yet to witness any rapid program has proven this postulate. decline in the moral fiber of my fellow The administration should stop drag­residents. Contrary to the opinion of the ging its collective rosary beads and administration, co-ed housing does not give students the option of co-ed degenerate into a house full of drunken housing. The tests have been completed orgies. Before this semester, I firmly in London. Although the situation over believed in the value and advantages here is a bit different, it still serves as of co-ed housing. After just a few weeks a valid test of co-ed housing. In fact, of co-ed living, I am further convinced as far as we are from campus, it may of the unlimited benefits of co-ed well have served as an even better test. housing. If students in London haven't abused 
First of all, co-ed housing prepares the privilege of co-ed housing in eight students for the real world better than years, I find it hard to believe on­single sex housing. After all, single sex campus students would abuse it under 
condos and apartment buildings are the shadow of the dome. The co-ed op­opened about as often as Golden Domes tion could be implemented in time for are built at Notre Dame. Single sex the fall of 1989. Judging by the speed in dorms are simply unnatural. We have which Howard was gelded last year, it lived in co-ed housing for the most part should be quite a simple procedure. of the first 18 years of our lives. After After all, they would only have to we graduate from school, most of us remove half of the urinals this time. will return to a co-ed situation. Why Tom Varnum is a junior English major does the administration disrupt this ar­studying in London and is a regular rangement? Viewpoint columnist. 
Doonesbury 
Apartheid forum to be held today 
Dear Editor: 
Today St. Edward's, Farley and Zahm Halls will be hosting a discussion and film about apartheid at 7:30p.m. in the Zahm Hall basement. The film will be "Children of Apartheid," a doc­umentary that previously was aired on television. After the film a discussion will be directed by a few members of the Anti-Apartheid Network. 
This activity is an attempt by each of the three halls to foster awareness in its residents and in the student body. With recent Viewpoint columns about apartheid and the general state of the informed, or uninformed, students on campus, we feel this discussion is ser­ving a dual purpose. 
Apartheid is a hot topic on this campus today. There are many people in our community who understand what it means and how it affects the lives of millions of South Africans; however, there are many people who lack details on the topic. The forum that will be presented is a great opportunity to learn something about apartheid and to make an attempt at understanding it. This is one example of an education program run by the Anti-Apartheid Network. 
One of the goals of the dorms is to foster an environment of social aware­ness. An education should not be lim­ited to the classroom, it should be ex­tended to social consciousness and understanding. An opportunity is pro­vided at this discussion to make one's self more informed and to experience an alternate form of education. 
At the heart of the program we are pushing our dorm's participation, but we would like to invite the entire campus to attend. Too often, students get caught up in their own worlds with the pressure of exams, papers and studying; they lose sight of the real world. Take advantage of this chance and other channels to become in­formed. All members of the community are welcomed and encouraged to par­
ticipate.  Sandy Henson  
Jim Gorenz  
Tim Heverin  
Patrick Havel  
Hall  Community  Service  Commis­ 
sioners  

February 15, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 
Opus Dei ties need considering 
Dear Editor: 
Graduate student Thomas D'Andrea is, of course, entitled to use the columns of The Observer to attack the content of the monthly publication Common Sense, and to register his displeasure 
..... 
with the Graduate Student Union for ..,1 providing it with some modest funding. .,However, in assessing his criticism, 1 people in the Notre Dame community 1 should be aware that Mr. D'Andrea is 1 associated with the organization Opus Dei. l 
It is surprising how few Catholics know anything about Opus Dei or its history. The movement was born in the 1930s in the context of Spanish fascist politics. It continues to betray its fascist origins in its obsessive emphasis on an autocratic hierarchy and on a monarchical papacy. High on its agenda is the elimination of anything that smacks of openness and consultation in the Church. Secrecy is its modus operandi--in this respect it resembles Freemasonry. Opus Dei is fiercely hos­tile to any attempt to flush it out into the open. 
During the pontificate of John XXIII and the heyday of the Second Vatican Council, this shadow}' organization was obliged to lie low and to bide its time until a more sympathetic pope turned up. Writing in a recent issue of the Na­tional Catholic Reporter, journalist Penny Lernoux said that the hand of Opus Dei could be detected in the firing of Jesuit Father Pedro Lamet from his post as director of the Spanish Catholic weekly Vida Neuva. Lamet had been accused of "publishing articles critical of the conservative trend in the Church." He had also "earned the em­nity" of Opus Dei through publicizing its maneuvers inside the Vatican. 
Mr. D'Andrea is being disingenuous when he says he is not advocating cen­sorship. His letter bristles with frustra­tion at the University's commitment to free speech. Perhaps he should consider transferring to a more controlled milieu; the Gregorian in Rome might be just his cup of tea. 
Ann Pettifer Notre Dame Alumna February 1, 1988 

~5 AN OPPONENT CF THE V!&T­
... AS HAR!J-HITT/N6 REroi<TER 
... PRINCE 1/L.BER.T 'X/3MW NAM JUtlR IVHO NON&7HUE55 
ti/EU-, ALMOST PCRFU.T. 
Quote of the Day
ti/HO OIAUENG&f? E5TA8U5Hcf? 
7H& PeRFECT GeNeRA "" 
"We are healed of a suffer­ing only by experiencing It In full." 
Marcel Proust 


Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief...... . ....................... Kevin Becker Bualneu Menager ............................. John Ollridlf Managing Editor ......................... Mark Pankowski AdvfHflaing f:JMiQII ,.,..,................~ K*n
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219} 239-5303 
AdvertllllnfJ ,_QIII'............................"S18ve Clark
News Editor .................... ...Chris Bednarski 
News Editor... .. .......... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... ....... w.ftle Viewpoint Editor..... .. ............Chris Murphy Projects Manager........................~ Mcl.aucll*l Sports Editor. .. ...... Denms Comgan S)oftwms AAerNigw ............................ ~ s..eon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor . ............................ Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele
the administration of either institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor..... .. ... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Ani M.nager...................... laura Stanton
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Photo Editor... .. ....... Jim Carroll
Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions 
on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1986 
Accent 
Wednesday, February 17, 1988

page 8 
Being 'halfway to 40' sinks in 
I 
had a horrible revelation Krls: Everything went great this weekend. It came as I even though I'm still not sure 
,.... 
,_ was stumbling home from a what I'm going to do with my ,... party over the sludgy, muddy life. Whatever I'm doing sure is ,... mess that Is Green Field. It had fun though. And it pays great! r­been a particularly brutal eve­Sasha: I'm so glad for you, 
,... 
ning. and my mind was wan­dear. Guess where we're going dering as It's apt to do after for dinner. 
Kris Murphy 
r Altered 



slightly too much bad beer. Krls: Dinner? Didn't you Anyway, I was stepping from make a beer run yet? slush puddle to slush puddle Sasha: Beer run? What's a Wreamed you'd have to Three-year-old children don't Kris: OK OK you hate when I suddenly sank up to my beer run, darling? Jpound" beer before you went go to bars! Whitesnake. I admit they're ankles in mud. That's when it Kris: C'mon Sasha, you know out with your wife. Kris: Well, what about the kind of lame. Let's dress in hit me: "Hey buddy, you're 20 what a beer run is. I left some Kris: Well that's OK. I guess 4-year-old? He's a tough little black and listen to my old years old. That's halfway to money on the kitchen table, we don't really have to pound. bugger, and I think it's about Smiths albums instead. You 40." and I figured you'd go out to But hey, instead of going out time my son and I did someth­look great in black anyway. 
Ka-booml Instant sobriety. I the liquor store and pick up a to eat, let's go to the bars in­Ing fun together. Then, maybe after that. we can don't know why sinking up to few cases of Old Milwaukee. I stead. Sasha: You've got to be kid­get the kid and hit the bars. my ankles in mud made me left It up to you because I Sasha: Kris, what is wrong ding. Sasha: Yaaaahl I don't want think of being halfway to 40, couldn't find my ID. with you? What about the Kris: Sweetness, for heaven's to listen to Smiths records, I but the Implications aren't too Sasha: Darling. I don't know children? sake! It's Friday night! Are we don't want to go to the bars, good. what you're talking about. Krls: Sasha, you know I love just going to sit around all .and I don't. I repeat, I DONT 
I tried to imagine myself at We've got plenty of liquor In the kids, but if they want to night and stare into space? want to pound beers! What 
40. Couldn't do it. Itjust the liquor cabinet, and I have come with us, they'll have to Look. if you don't want to happened to the man I love? wouldn't happen. I hope I no Idea what we'd do with "a get some IDs. They're real pound beers and you don't Oh Lord, I need a valiuml make some progress in the few CASES" of beer. Also, harsh on minors around here. want to go to the bars, maybe Kris: Whoa. What a drag ... next 20 years, but I had this you're a 40-year-old man. You Maybe we can borrow that we can go to a concert. like, mega bad scene.... horrible vision of me reaching haven't been carded in years. neighbor kid's driver's Sasha: Finally! The man I (Kris and Sasha's 4-year-old 
that mid-life crisis in the sky Kris: Oh yeah. But Sasha, if license .... married speaks! How about the son Nigel appears and speaks and acting just like I do now. It we don't get some beer, there's Sasha: 1\ris! You have two Bach recital downtown? to Kris.) went something like this: no way we'll be able to do any children. They're only .3 and 4 Kris: Bach? Uh ... I was Nigel: Daddy? (He pulls at his 
(Krls Murphy, 40 years old, serious pounding before we go years old! thinking more along the lines father's coat.) What's wrong comes home after work and is out. Kris: See what I mean? of Whitesnake. Their big . with Mom? greeted by his wife of ten Sasha: Kris, I was planning There's no way they'll get In reunion tour is in town tonight Kris: I don't know, son. I of­
years, Sasha.) to take you out tonight. I without some really excellent and I figured we could put on fered to take her out, and she Kris: Hi honey, I'm home! thought we'd go to that won­IDs. leather and.... spazzed. Hey son, how would Sasha: Why, hello dear. (They derful German restaurant you Sasha: Aaagh! That's not Sasha:Aaaaaaaaaaaaag­you like to go with Daddy to 
kiss.) How was your day? like so much, and I never what I mean, love of my life! ggggghhhhl the Whitesnake concert? 
'Star Trek: The Next Generation' takes off 
G
ERIC M. BERGAMO sure that many of the same characters that weren't copies The one character who will The stories are typical of the accent writer "behind the scenes" people are of the characters in the probably gain the cult status original "Trek" -entertaining working on the new show. original. that Spock held is Commander mixes of action and humor that oing "where no one has Most important of these The new commander is Capt. Data (Brett Spiner). An android deliver a message to the audi­gone before" is proving to people is Gene Rodenberry who Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick who knows just about every­ence. be pretty popular this television created "Star Trek" for NBC in Stewart), whose character is thing in the universe and lets One problem that could be season. 1966 and was the show's exec­more strongly defined than everyone know so, he looks as corrected is the production of 
utive producer. He fills that William Shatner's James Kirk. if he's suffering from a termi­episodes that too closely same role for "Star Trek: The Jonathan Frakes is his second­nal case ofjaundice. resemble episodes from the 
r--------"L-Television 
Next Generation" and brings in-command, Cmdr. William The portrayals are, for the original. This was acceptable in
Star Trek: 

the same vision and philosophy Riker, who is more impulsive most part, on the mark and the beginning of the series
The Next 

to the new show that he did to than Picard. competent. The exceptions are when the show wanted to at­Generation the original. There is some romantic inter­Spiner, who has a field day tract "Star Trek" fans. Now, Others who have been in­est between Picard anci rhief playing Data, and Stewart, however, the "Next Generation" "Star Trek: The Next Genera­volved with both series are medical officer Dr. Beverly bringing a cool and collected writers should be striking out tion" (Fridays at midnight on producer Robert H. Justman, Crusher (Gates McFadden) interpretation of his Picard. towards new ideas. 

WSJV, Ch. 28) is the story of writer and script consultant which could lead to some inter­the radically new starship En­David Gerold (he wrote the esting stories later in the terprise and her crew 85 years classic "Trouble With Tribbles" season. Crusher has a teenage after the 5-year mission episode), writer D.C. Fontana son, Wesley (Wil Wheaton of chronicled in the original "Star and costumer William Ware "Stand By Me") accompanying Trek." Theiss. If Paramount hadn't her. 
Nothing could measure up to cared about producing a Also along for the voyage is the original with Kirk. Spock quality project, they wouldn't Lt. Geordi La Forge (LeVar Bur­and the rest who went on to have taken the trouble to get ton of "Roots" fame) who is 
four successful movies. Right? the original team together. blind, but is able to "see" with Guess again. But the new look of this next a device that looks like some­Considering the weak slate of generation is also distinct. Most thing given out at a Student 
new shows the networks have obvious are the sharper look of Union Board event. And Marina put up (Including "thir­the "new'' Enterprise and the Sirtis plays Deanna Troi, a half­tysomething." ABC's yup-scale improved special effects which human, half-Betazoid counselor answer to "St. Elsewhere"), are 100 times better than the who can communicate through "Star Trek: The Next Genera­shaky and, at times, silly ef­telepathy. tion" Is far and away the best fects of the original. Industrial new program of the season Light and Magic, who handled There is also a Klingon and more than matches the the effects for the "Star Wars" navigator, Lt. Worf (Michael original. movies, has done a fantastic Dorn) on board. (The Federa­
Continuity Is one way "Star job of producing movie-like tion is now at peace with the Trek: The Next Generation" has effects for a television show. Klingons.) Denise Crosby, succeeded. Paramount. who And with the new look has Bing's daughter, plays the chief produced the original "Trek" come a new crew. Rodenberry of security, Lt. Cmdr. Tasha and the four movies, has made was smart In creating new Yar. 
The Observer The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Accent Copy Editor 
For further information contact 
Beth Healy at The Observer (239-5303) 
Wednesday, Februa~ 17, 1988__________________________________T_h_e~O~b~s~e_N_e~r--------------------------------------------------~p_a~g~e__9 
Sports Briefs 
The Squash Club will practice tonight at 7 
p.m. on Courts 1 and 2 of the JACC in preparation for the March 5 match at Michigan. All interested club members who plan to participate in the match, which will be a hardball match, should attend. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in room 204 O'Shaughnessy. New mem­bers welcome. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will have a mandatory meeting with practice following tomorrow at 8 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. No practice today. -The Observer 
Varsity and Novice crew teams will have a meeting tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland. This is the last chance to be included for the Spring Break trip. -The Observer 
The women's rugby team will have an organizational meeting tomorrow at 6 p.m. in the Middle Room of Farley Hall. If you are unable to come but are still interested in playing, call Lauren Nathe (3560), Kathy Shannon (4067) or Sarah Prinster (4039). -The Observer 
TheAlpineClubwillhaveameetingtomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. If you have any questions, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
Men's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be Sunday, February 28 from 12-4 p.m. All students and faculty members are invited to play. There is a $5 entry fee. Any questions, call Mike at 1962. -The Observer 
The Blue Line Club will sponsor a trip to Notre Dame's hockey series against Michigan­Dearborn this weekend. Buses leave Friday, Feb. 19, at 2 p.m. and return Sunday at 1 a.m. (after the game). Cost is $30 for bus transportation, and $65 per room at the Hyatt Regency. -The Observer 
111e0.....Nolnl Dame office, local.son U. third ftooJ ol l.afoftuneStu­dent Centlr, ecc:ept8 claalfted ech«ti...IQirom 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. n.0.....Sllkrt ...,._ olflce, located on the third floor ol ~CollgeCent•, ..:c.ptaclaallleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3p.m., Monday
Classifieds through Frtday. o.dllne for next• ctualftedala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must be prwpeld, either In pereon or by mall. The ch-.ge Ia 10 cents per live ~perday. 
NOTICES  FOUND: Pair of eyegiBBSes between P.E. and 0·2 parking lot. Call Uaa at  FOR SALE: Stelnberger-copy Headless Bass, Hardshell case. Traynor Bloc-80  SCREAMING SCREAMING  MIDGETS FROM MIDGETS FROM  HELL HELL  DID YOU MISS VALENTINE'S DAY? COME IN AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF  CHEN To my special Valentine; sorry ~·a late.  
Bony~ Contact Tim Diar1<a of MadMacs lor the  4276 to claim. ·:;:;:;·i:osr:sroi::eN~iiOR.iioweo··:;:;:; TOP TEN REASONS WHY YOU  Amp. Set lor $400 or best offer. Also, Completa Bedroom Outflt·Dbl. Bed' Box Spring-Triple DreaSOO' Mlrror-5-Drawer Chest. Set for $250 or best olfer. Call  THEY'RE BACKIII scfieA"M.iNG..Miooe:Ts''F-FiOM'"iiE'ti: H'a the SHOW, not the aizelll  OUR OVERFLOW-A BOUQUET OF 15 ROSES FOR $1.501 THAT'S 15 FOR 1.50, NOT 1.50 EACH. IRISH GAR· DENS, 12:30-5:30, M·SAT., LA FOR·  Bobbl ................................................................ CRAZY PAT I :58 HAS YOUR NAME ON  
best price on Sony OS{)() 3.5" dlskettae  SHOULD RETURN MY BLACK OVER·  Gene Jr. at 282·1757 ...  TUNE BASEMENT  ITII BALLS OUT  
lor you< Mac!ntoeh r other oompute<. Call 283-2101 and help aupport the Macin· loeh Uaera Group! Guaranleed lor lh MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY.  COAT WCAYSTAL KEY CHAIN AND KEYS TAKEN AT KNOLLWOODS.M.C. DANCE 2112. 1!)·1TS MINE 9-THE LORD WILL SMITE THEE IF YOU DON'T 8-HAS ONE ALREADY 7-I'M FREEZING i-IT NEEDS TO BE DRYCLEANED  TICKETS HEY Y'ALL, 4 BEAUTIFUL BLONDES FROM VANDERBILT ARE  :i;;;;;~--~..Fi:ANN'e'R:··c;,i··~..;;;;;;·;;;~ other SYA real aoonll Morri888y waa too much tun. Thank you. -a nice, IIOCial butterfty from LEWIS ::·K'ATi-ifivN.iful.il.i";.;..........................  n;;~ij;'i:;i';;;i~"~i'tt;;·~lik;:·· ................ Bubblewrap. t:;;i:;···;:,~....o~·t.A;;;·,..··ii;;;i~:· ..o~;;;: ..·~~ Roland. You guys have come along way. SWim trom the heart. Nothing is  ................................................................ HAPPY BIRTHDAY Brtgld You're 19 now and you know what that means-you're legal In Canada! Have a supar day·rjb ................................................................  
TYPING AVAILABLE 217-4012 WORDPROCESSINO-TYPING 272.a27 TYPING .CALL DOLORES 237·11141  5-lrS MINE 4-1 BORROWED IT FROM A BOXER 3-IT LOOKS BETTER ON ME 2·1 DIDN'T RUN FOR OFFICE AND PUT OBNOXIOUS NOTES UNDER YOUR DOOR 1·1TSAN ACTUAL TRANSMOGAIFICA· TION OF MY BABY BROTHER PLEASE CONTACT MIKE AT 1184.  DESPERATELY SEEKING VANDY NO BBALL TIX. PLEASE CALL PAT 2.n. 2151 PLANE··:rici<E:r"4··;;:.:ce..s·:iie.No··;:c, CHICAGO ¢ CHICAGO TO BUA­LINGTON,VT £2153 i.N.Eeo'4'a:.\:;;·;:o·vANoeR'iiii:r'aiii:.ie CALL WENDY X4114  -KATHRYN HUMM­Congratulations on being elected Official Nap Time Teddy Bear of the 1988 Winter Olympics. I can think of no one better to cuddle w~h. -Man w no gloves. c·Heci<"oi!T..TiiE'..NE'W..so·uN'o··o;:., CAMPUS: THE GROOVE CHIPS: TUES FEB 23 AND WED FEB  impossible. You've got to be ready tor anything. GOOD LUCKI AAA ································································ "ya gotta love him" Only 4 more shopping days 'til CASEY MOORE'S 2oth Birthday! N.lkk;::;:;~;;p;;'B'~~;·::;;;;·;;;;i··kiii;;;;;·;~~ on the way Carefully, wrapped In lloorice Remember, breathe steadily and think BIG Love, Jeailyn  ATTENTION THE GUTLESS JERKS WHO CALL THEMSELVES THE COM· MITTEE TO BAN THE WHIP. WHY DON'T YOU GET OFF HIS CASElli "THE WIMP" HAPPENS TO BE A "EE" AND ATHLETIC TRAINER WHO STILL MANAGES TO WAITE "MUZAK" IN HIS SPARE TIME-WHAT HAVE YOU DONE WITH YOUR LIVES??? LAY OFFill -A MEMBER OF THE WHIP FAN CLUB  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-70011. ADOPTION: Loving couple, phyalclan and paychologlat, claaply wtat.a to adopt~-Welcoming -nnfam­Ily, lova, opportunltlaal Expan­pald. t.agal, con-tlal. Call Ellie and Alan collect 212·724-71142. MY GIRLFRIEND needs a ride lfom NO to PlttBburgh after JPW. It your parents would be able to give her a ride to the PlttBburgh area, pleaae call Kevin al 239-5303. Thanks. An T oetal Organizational Meeting-all wei· cornel February 21, 1988 120 Cushing (E. Aud) 7:30PM 7:30PM 7:30PM Mark your calenden NOWIII Country Harvester a great place to show Mom this -endl La Fortune beaemenHun Gifts. H ............... LOST/FOUND I Loot Lost Black and Gold Seiko watch. II lound call Rob al £2506. Raward Reward  ................................................................ LOST-A Hewlett Packard calculator. II you've found one ple888 call Bill at X· 1620. FOUND BRACELET-IN ST. MARY'S PARKING LOT LAST WEEKEND. CALL 284·5215 TO IDENTIFY. FOR RENT FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 2n· 3097, 683·8889. FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BOAHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955'255· 3884 ................................................................ EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288· 0955 I WANTED Macintosh seru:~:~DDAIVE lor Mac 512e with no SCSI port. Call 239·5n2 and leave a message tor Matt.  i"j.jE'fio·3··;;,;:.\iiau·rn:e·:rixi..Pi:EA:se CALL MARY AT 37801 w'ANTiio;··2...Tiii'"iO'R'"vNioiifiaii:l-GAME C.M Krlall 2111-11140 PERSONALS CPA...CPA...CPA...CPA...CPA...CPA... on rts way.. . oA'Fi'H'ous·E;·c;·c;L:ii'Eiiie·Fi·a:·uaiiofi. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. ................................................................ LIFE'S A BEACH LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL Beachlront hotel on famous strip With 2 restaurants. 3 bers, large pool, bike shop and beachwear. Only $14~rs. (4-toom) for 8 days, 7 nights of Aorlda tun, sun & surf. Don't miss outll Call Nowl 1-8CJO. ENJOY-US. i:oN'ooN.:Roli'E......suM'M.ER.......pfio. GRAMS1988 SMc-ND London: May 1Jhlune 17 ·travel In INiand,Scotland,England,& France Rorne: June 12.July 11 ·travel In France,Swltz.,Gann.,& Italy Cou,... In Photo,Bio,Buac,Hiat,Soc,& ltel. INFORMATIONAL I ORGANIZA·  24 ...AND THE KICK DRUM IS THE FAULT/ N'~;;;;y....................................­................ Can I patriotic w~h you lor the next two weeks? Mr. Joy and Peace APAFiTH'Fiio"iiisctiss.iON'''\VE'D:..:;:3Q PM ZAHM BASEMENT APAFirH'eio'i:i'isC'ussioN·:r;:i<·e·:ri'Me OUT EVERYONE WELCOME WED ZAHM 7:30 ................................................................ A~ION JUNIOR I'ORI'If:R HOWARD Rl'.S/Df:NTS: It looks now like the JPW party Is on for Saturday night reb. 20th, after the dinner (around 9::50 or so) In room 219 In the Rock. It will last for about two hours or so. We will be asking for a slight donaUon at the door, since. as If you need to be told this. we don't have a hall to cover the extra costs. If you have any quesUons or problems, call Kevin at J609 or Kent at 289·8614. Make sure you tell any Howard guys you see about It too, In case they don't see this ad. We'll also lfy to send out letters. See you there. ;;~:. 'E~~;;i 'i4~ii~y~·. p;~i;i~i' ;;;·'ih~ Unlveralty, will celebrllte Mau today ·Aah Wednellday -at 5:00pm In the Log Chapel lor theology majora and minora. ································································ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  sNA'Ps..~;;..;;;;;;;..~·~;;;..tt;;;;;"t;;;tt;;;;;, lor an "old man· and much laster when there is a knock at the door-the moat worthwhile 2 cents ever spent ································································ HERE YOU GO, ZAADII ·STER :t:t.ie:r...:Fit.i:t:i:Lv..i:.Eoil'~..Fiowi:A't.io HAPPY BIRTHDAYIIIIJIJIJIIIII I hope tha OUIJA will let you go lor a night ao you can celebratell Do you -nt aoma Ice cNam to go with your cake or would you p,.,.r aomathlng at•? I crack myaatl upllllllll Wa lova you, cauaHcnaaa and aiiJIIO PEBBLE BEACH P~i~;~···i:;;; ...iji;;d...v~~· ..;;;;;;g;;d...y;;;;; mlnd...even ~ rt waa sudden ·Kathy ................................................................ Anet Rowland You are legal? Scary thought, isn't It? Have a great day and a night to remem­ber. It may take Iii few other people to help you remember. Have a Happy Birthday! Love the gang In 307 ·······FiiaHT"·:rc;·i:iFe.Nee'i:is'voui...... WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE·A· THON M·TH 15·25 2nd floor Admin. Bid 6:30-9:30 $$ supports aHematlves to abortion  DEAR ASHKILLERS OF GRACE, JUST BECAUSE THE WARARANTY WAS UP DOESN'T GIVE YOU THE RIGHT TO KILL SPIKE AND ARTHUR. THEY'LL BE IN OUR HEARTS FOREVER ... L. AND J. Bobby Kloaka-A great guy and a good FRIEND HEY CALLYE B., I'M TOO SHY TO ASK YOU TO MY SYA. -NOV 3230 HEY T·BALL, SHUT UP, ALREADY, DAMNI Why go to ADWORKS for your resume? Come to UBI • Typeset qual~ • Personal service • Lower prices • Money-beck guarantee Call Tim at 283·21 01 to set up an ap­pointment With the pros. Tracey Middleton Ia 21 today. Coma to CHIPS tonight and halp her celebr8tal (We'rain daaparate need olahot don• tiona). TO the secret admirer 401 McCandless Thanks you lor the singing telegram who are you? Reply here. Forget tha Coke. BOYCOTT THE CPAI  
FOUND: PAIR OF GLASSES NEAR ZAHM HALL. CALL JE~ AT 3183 TO CLAIM. LOST· An aU black Nlkon FA Camera w tlaah and motor drive: To the person who borrowed K, lhe camera has tremendous 118ntimental value but can be replaced ·lhe 111m Inside. however. Ia of the Cogawell Family's vlalt and theretoce priceleBB. II you have an attack of oon­BCiancot aend the 111m to Marl< Dillon 203  Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expen118s. Good Conversa· 1\orlalist Call 1108 evenings. OVERSEAS JOBS..SumrMr, yr.round. Europa,S.Amar.,Auatralla,Aala. All llakla. SI00-2000 mo. Sigh--. lng.Fraa Into. Wrlta IJC,PO Bx 52· IN04,Corona Oat Mar,CA 112125.  TIDNAL MEETING Fab 23 ·7:00 p.m. Carroll Hall (SMC) For Mora Info, C.II Prof.Black at 284­4460 ''L;;;·c;t;;;;;;;;;·F:-;;;·Sj;;;~·;;·&;;;k·;Bili' Limited apace rarnelna at South Pad.-, North Pedra, Daytona Beach, Fort Wal· ton Beach and Steamboat, Coloredo  KEENAN REBUTTAL TRYOUTS Wed. and Thura. Library Auditorium C.ll x1288 or x1314 SSSSSSSSSSSSSS We need your actl You need our money! KEENAN REBUTTAL KEENAN REBUTTAL KEENAN REBUTTAL  'iA...ii~;;;iii~~:·'L~;;g··i;i;;,'d···c;hicl.'"i~·;;;~ old II Happy 21 to Anet Rowland Our Hags fly in your honor. Hope all goes well on this momentous occasion. Have a good time, but keep your tlega in their proper place, especially with that ice cream Iicker on the loose and legal. The Alumni Men  NEED AIDE TO OHIO STATE Feb 19 CALL Kathleen £284·5201 Would Godzllla: Take tha kiss & leave the cookie? Eat with the pickle Iori<? Drop carrots In the cream? Leave before 5 am-In tha middle ol ·caatno On Whaeta? Have ooffee In his Irish Cream? Ask·Donde estas tu· ? I think noll Thanks lor a great weekend. K&C  
E. Navarre St. South Bend. Any Informs· lion call 288·8873. Thanks.  lor akllng. Hurry, Call Bunch...Toura toll lraa 1-80().321·5111 lor ,...,.  AneN-TioN·;:r~,i:·ai;;~'d·i.i·~~~~·:;;iu;··iiia  
LOST: Gold ring wHh blue stone, Hea·  R'ici~·~;;;;;;;;'d'i~"[i~i;;;ii'~;~~-J~~:·;·ii:'Wiit  Ilona and lnlonnatlon TODAY. Credit carda accepted.  KEENAN REBUTTAL TRYOUTS  EARS and skinny legs, CALL 3429 and wish KATHY a HAPPY BIRTHDAYII  Why make your Ute hell? Don't give up Diet Coke lor lent.  
burgh Library laat week. Call Beth at 288· 6631. REWARD. IF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK FIRST IN THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. 'AND THEN IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ· INOIIIIIIIIIIII without my brown leather glovea I left In 120 O'Shag on that cold Wedneoday I Oth ~:OOpm. II lound, pleaae call C1783 soonlllllllllllll  pay well. Call Mary 3803 Aloe.w'AN=rE'o'T'o'ofiT'~::in:·;;c;R..2~;·8 Til 2·21 CALL JOE AT 2056 ................................................................ NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS OH. THIS FRI. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL KATHY 4205. H'et:P·i·i";;i;;;;i'';id~··;; ..ri-;;;;;;·i~··p·~·;;i~ 2119. Call Laurie 401 t. G'oiNG....eA:sr?.....Ne.eo.....iiioe:OH'io TURNPIKE EXIT I 1, 2119·21.!1. CALL  e:.\FiN..MoNe·.y··;;c;R··;;;:;FiiN'G'-iiFi'eAi<t JPW needs student workers. Call 239· 7814 for more infol iNTe'Resreo.iN.MAi<iNG·A·i:iTI'Ce'Fix~ TRA CASH ON THE WEEKENDS? Be a photographar lor Irish Photos and take pictures at SYR's and formals. All you need is a 35mm camera and a desire to meet people. CALL PAT AT 2318. ................................................................ I'll have a burger, tries and a large Coke  Wed. and Thura. Library Auditorium Call x1288 or x1314 ssssssssssssssssss Be tunl Be rlchl Do the KH!Ian Rabuttall Things We Won't Miss IV: "How was your SYA?" 8;;;·~·;·· ....................................................  ii·y~~-;;;~~i·i~-g~·si:eooiNG'·;.;;i;;·KA.riiv GLIWA on her Birthday, give har a call at 3429111 ................................................................ Lets Go Irish Women SWimmers: Chrissie Christy Tracie Becky Callie Jean Kathleen Amy Kay Mary Kathy Annette MAC Ruth Berb Eva and Sharon. Good Luck in Evansville! Capture the Confer· ence Crownll L.S. Obviously you wanted a response to that  BRC Pink roses from you Dancing at the formal til 2 tha brar, dinner, hockey games too, what else Ia there to BBy? Except Good Luck on your test today I Basketball and tennis Improved our game ...1 had a lot of tun and you're to blame. Stet. SMEO..DOO LABOE  
KRISTEN 1759.  These past months have changed my  ao-ealled piece of journalism in the local  
Found playing baakalball Thursday eve· nlng: Mena basketball jeraey ·call JC at 1209 to claim. LOST: IRISH WALKING HAT, SANDY BROWN TWEED. CALL HEATHER 214-5100.  FOR SALE SLEEPER LOVESEAT Blue contemporary design like new oon­ ;:;;y·:;;i~;;;;;:u,~·p·;;;g;;;;;;,~~-;;,;~;i~·c-i~i, ot Notre Dame (under new management) announces bus trip to Nothwestem tor Echo and the Bunnymen concert 39. In· to: Greg x1182; Zep x1409. .....................;:,·,~;..,;;~..;~·o ....................  life. Without you I would be nothing and probably do better in Calculus. You are the sunshine of my life. You are the song In my heart on a lonaly night. You are the Hamar, of my Castle Grayscull. You are the tiny man In my sugar bowl. Ooosha. Becky  rag. I'd Ilks to take this opportunity to respond, and I know this is the place to do so. Firat, that material Ia just a little dated. May I mention a certain column (21188) and the Wall Street Journal In the same breath? I just did, because they covered the topic In depth much 9Br1ler. In add~ion. the local Trib (rag) failed to  Le Stud de L'amour Oh you hopeless roman~cl Busy? Never roo busy for you. Who knows maybe we'II even make ff to the dance this ysar?/ ·LuLu  - 
LOST: One grayMember'o Only Glove between Hurley and Grace. Call 2382 •• MONEY •• MONEY •• MONEY • A REWARD tor the wonderful person who wUI return to me a rhinestone bracelet lost In the South Dln~ng Hall at the Mardi Gru Dance. PLEASE return this -~ belonged to my Mother and ~ is qu~e Important to me. Call Martha at231Hl116 or 239-5913  dition $250 CALL 284·4531 or 287·7023 ti'ei:P.iciiA:Noe'iN'.;;t:ANs.is'F-oR'ciN'a ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN MON. MARCH 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTIABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER.  .............~;~;;i;;;;;;·~;..~-~~~·;;;~............ FASHION SAVVY 8 pm CENTURY CENTER FEB. 20 -daalgner laahlona lor men & women, live band, party· lraa tranaportatlon  ;:;~y-..;;;;;;;;;.;···::t:~i:~--9~--~;rt··s~i·~·;d~y Night. ·-Mama Koala ;:;~~~-~-:iou::,;·-g~..s::,;;;v:··KA.Ti-iviiiii, Love, The Rat Pack. HOW ABOUT A GERBIL FOR YOUR 19th BIRTHDAY, KATH?  mention that S.B. Ia not among the Top 20 teet areas. Speaking of Top 20, how come 'that other town' haa a Top 20 be&· ketball team and S.B. doesn't? Call me and we'll ldck that around. I don't care I don't live here I don't live there P.S. Have a nice day, let's go out soma­time  SME[).[)C)Q LABOE Yo, Smed-dog LBrs get naked// Anyway ya useless slab of meat I've seen bigger Cocktail Sauaagaa In my short /lfetlmell Of course /'N rumba with you. ·LuLu the Uzb11111  


page 1 0 The Observer February 17, 1988 
Sports Wednesday 




Sports Lists 
WltiTE~ GAMES MEDALS tt tl BY U.S. 
NBA Standings 
w..tem Conference Eastern Conference 
Mldw..t Division Atlantic Dlvlelon 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
Dallas 3t t7 .646 
Boston 35 t5 .700 

Houston 28 18 .609 2 Philadelphia 2t 26 .447 t2.5 
Denver 28 19 .596 2.5 
Washington 18 28 .391 15 Utah 24 24 .500 7 New York t8 29 .383 15.5 

San Antonio 18 27 .400 11.5 
New Jersey 12 37 .245 22.5 

Sacramento t5 32 .319 15.5 
Centrel Dlvl•lon 

Pacific Dlvl•lon Atlanta 32 t7 .653 
L.A. Lakers 38 9 .809 
Detrort 30 16 .652 .5 

Portland 28 t9 .596 tO Chicago 29 2t .580 3.5 
Seattle 26 23 .531 t3 Indiana 25 22 .532 6 
Phoenix t5 32 .3t9 23 Milwaukee 24 22 .522 6.5 
Golden State 13 33 .283 24.5 
Cleveland 26 24 .520 6.5 

L.A. Clippers t1 35 .239 26.5 
Wedneedey'e Game• 
Cleveland at Philadelphia Boston at Denver Seattle at Milwaukee Phoenix at Utah Washington at Dallas Portland at L.A. Clippers 
lnterhall Basketball 
FINAL B-LEAGUE STANDINGS Big Sky Dlvl•lon ECAC Dlvl81on w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 'Stanford A 1 7 0 1.000 0 t.OOO 
FINAL A-League Standing• 'Sarin B 7 
'Keenan A ·oc Whitesnakes 5 2 .714 2 Cavanaugh A 5 2 .7t4 2 .571 3 5 2 .7t4 2 Grace 82 4 3 
Alumni B2 Keenan B1 3 4 .429 

Grace At 5 2 .7t4 2 3 4 .429 4 o.c. 3 4 .429 4 4 St. Ed's A 2 5 .286 5 2 5 .286 5
Flenner B2 

The Bricks OC 0 6 Flanner At 0 7 .000 7 Big 10 Dlvl81on SEC Dlvlelon w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 'Stanford A2 6 1 .857 
Zahm A 1 6 .t43 6 .142 6 
'Dillon B1 6 0 1.000 'Holy Cross A 5 2 .714 t 'Cavanaugh B 5 t .833 t Alumni A2 5 2 .7t4 1 2
OC Goats 4 2 .667 

Pangborn A 4 3 .57t 2 Alumni B 3 3 .500 3 Fisher A Pangborn B 2 4 .333
3 4 .429 3 4 Off Campus 3 4 .429 3 1 5 .167 5
Fisher B 2 5 .286 4
Dillon At Morri88ey B 0 6 .000 6 OC Beerball 0 7 .000 6 P11C·1 0 Dlvlaton ACC Dlvlalon w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 5 t .833
·oc 

'Morrissey A 7 0 t.ooo 'Grace B1 5 t .833 
'Sarin A 6 1 .857 1 Stanford B1 4 2 .667 t OC Thunder 5 2 .7t4 2 Flanner B1 3 3 .500 2 Alumni At 3 4 .429 4 OC 69ers 2 4 .333 3 Grace A2 Carroll B
3 4 .429 4 t 5 .t67 4 
Carroll A 2 5 .286 5 Zahm B 1 5 .167 4 Dillon A2 2 5 .286 5 Flanner 0 7 .000 7 Mlojor Independent• •-clinched playoff spot w L Pet. GB 
'Madison Ave. OC 6 0 t.ooo 'Aanner B3 4 
2 .667 2 Dillon B2 3 .500

3 3 Holy Cro88 B 3 3 .500 3 Wedneeday'• Pleyoll Game• Grace B3 
2 4 .333 4Sarin A vs. Stanford A2, 6 p.m. 

Stanford B2 2 4 .333 4 Flenner B3 vs. Dillon 81, 7 p.m. Keenan B2 
1 5 .167 5Grace Bt vs. Cavanaugh B, 8 p.m. • -clinched playoff spot 

are Italicized. 
1. Temple (28) 20-1 2. Purdue ( 12) 20-2 3. Arizona (10) 23-2 4. Oklahoma (10) 22-2 
5. No. Carolina 18-3 
6. Duke 18-3 
7. Brigham Young 19-1 B. Pittsburgh 17-3 9. Kentucky 18-3 
10. Michigan 20-4 
11 . Nevada-Las Vegas 21-3 12. Syracuse 18-6 13. Iowa 17-6 
14. No. Carolina St. 16-5 15. Missouri 16-5 
18. Vanderbilt 16-5
...._ 
17. Bradley 16-4 18. Georgetown 16-6 19. Wyoming 18-5 
20. Loyola (Calif.) 20-3 
Basketball Top 20 Sports Calendar Scoreboard 
APTopTw.nty 

Basketball
The Top Twenty college basketball learns in The 
Home games in CAPS Men
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points 
Notre Dame 64, Fordham 59 based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents Today Notre Dame 73, UCLA 66 
Others receiving votes: Kansas St. 85, Southern Men's Tennis at Iowa W" Northwestern Methodist 34, Georgia Tech 28, Xavier (Ohio) 24, and Miami (Ohio) 
Notre Dame 8, Eastern Michigan 1 Cal-Santa Barbara 23, Indiana 21, Florida 19, Aorida 
SMC Basketball at Grace College
St. 18, Rhode Island 17, Illinois t6, Villanova t3, Boise St. 9, Utah St. 7, Arkansas 5, Texas-EI Paso 
lnterhall Hockey
5, Arkansas-Little Rock 4, St. John's 3, No. Carolina­Charlotte 2, New Mexico 1, Notrw Dame 1. 
Sunday 

Gold Dlvlaton Men's Tennis host NOTRE DAME W L T 
QUADRANGULAR Wrestling at Indiana
Women's lnterhall 
Monday
WOMEN'S IH BASKETBALL STANDINGS W L Pel GB 

Pasquerilla West 6 0 t.OOO Men's Basketball vs. CREIGHTON Lyons 5 t .833 1 Lewis 4 t .BOO t.5 Badin 3 3 .500 3 Breen-Phillips 3 3 .500 3 Tuesday Pasquerilla East 2 4 .333 4 Farley t 4 .200 4.5 
Howard 1 4 .200 4.5 SMC Basketball at Taylor University Walsh 0 5 .0 5.5 
Playoff Brackets 

LARGE ONE TOPPING ORIGINAL STYLE PIZZA for 
$7.99
-
277-5880
~. 

Pizza.. 52920 U.S. 31 N 
! Eat In, Carry Out, or Delivery.v 
Not valid in combination with any other offers or the Gott refill­able. Valid at participating locations_ EXP. 2-"29-88. NO CASH VALUE 
f 
Women
Women's Basketball at Cleveland State 
Notre Dame 79, Detroit 51 Notre Dame 60, Dayton 58 1,141 SMC Basketball 76, Hope College 61 
1,118 Thursday 1,086 
Men';; Basketball vs. DAYTON Hockey
1,059 

Notre Dame 14, Villanova 0
879 

Notre Dame 15, Villanova 5
860 

825 Friday 
777 Wrestling
Hockey at Michigan-Dearborn
746 Michigan 24, Notre Dame 16
Men's Tennis at Nothwestern
674 Ohio State 23, Notre Dame 13 578 Indoor Track at Indiana lntercollegiates 
471 Wrestling at Central Michigan Swimming
389 

374 Men 288 
Notre Dame 112, Illinois-Chicago 87 286 Notre Dame 121 , Cleveland State 83
Saturday

233 Women 194 Notre Dame 118, Illinois-Chicago 88
Women's Basketball at Marquette 170 Hockey at Michigan-Dearborn Notre Dame 135, Cleveland State 118 117 Fencing at Illinois with Purdue Women's Tennis at Wisconsin Tennis 
Men 
Grace 5 0 0 Morrissey 3 2 0 Off Campus 2 t t Dillon 2 2 1 St. Ed"&Holy Cro88 2. 2 0 Keenan 0 3 1 Flanner 0 4 t 
Blue Dlvlelon Alumni 4 0 0 Cavanaugh 4 t 0 
Pangborn 3 2 0 Sarin 2 2 0 Stanford 2 2 0 Fisher 0 4 1 Zahm 0 4 
_ . . _ ~­
.  ,  .  
REB  AVO  A  ST  TP  AVO  
80  4_0  94  34  457  22.9  
88  4-3  26  11  191  11-9  
135  7.1  14  12  197  10.4  
155  7.4  7  16  188  9.0  
17  1-1  26  16  115  7.7  
29  1.5  38  13  115  5.5  
45  2.3  13  5  99  5.0  
96  4.6  10  14  69  3.3  
21  1-3  2  1  36  2.3  
15  0.8  30  15  43  2-2  
10  1.1  0  1  11  1.2  
10 1  1.3 0.1  1 0 0 • 0- 6 4  0.8 0.5  
743  35.4  133  1531  72.9  
542  25.8  288  136  1335  53.6  

Irish Basketball 
Not including Rutgers game 

PLAYER G-S MIN-AVO F<H"OA PCT FT..fTA PCT David Rivers 20-20 735-37 149-341 -437 121-144 .840 Mark Stevenson 16-12 499-33 81-158 .512 29-40 .725 Gary Voce 19-19 593-31 69-136 .507 59·73 .808 Keith Robinson 21·7 540-26 81-131 .618 26-49 .531 Joe Fredrick 15-7 303-20 47-73 .644 21·25 .840 Jamere Jackson 21-18 493-23 44-90 .488 23-30 .767 Sean Connor 21-5 326-16 41·99 ifA14 4-6 .667 Scott Paddl)(:lc 2H6 394-19 28-51 .550 13·24 -542 Kevin Ellery 16-0 t12-7 13-22 .591 1Q-17 .588 Tim Singleton 20-1 174-9 15-24 .625 13·18 .722 Steve Nlcgorski 9.() 17·2 3-7 .429 5-8 .625 Tony Jackson 8-0 33-4 3-5 .600 Q-2 .000 Chris Nanni 8-0 14-2 1-6 .167 2-4 .500 NOTRE DAME 21-21 4065-40 575-1143 .603 328-4W .741 OPPONENTS 21•21 4065-40 517-1108 .466 231-325 .711 

PW remains undefeated in women's IH basketball 
Wednesday, February 17, 1988 The Observer 
Early upsets are the rule as men's IH playoffs begin 
By CHRIS PAULISON Sports Writer 
While the Irish basketball team anxiously awaits a ticket to the NCAA tournament, six teams in men's Interhall bas­ketball are currently attempt­ing to capitalize on their post­season invitations. 
Stanford A-1 and Morrissey, both undefeated in regular season play, were awarded for their efforts with free passes to the second round of the playoffs. Holy Cross and Keenan joined this pair in the winners bracket with upset vic­tories over Sorin and Stanford A-2, respectively. 
In defeating the Studs 66-62, Keenan pulled out their third win in as many outings. Over­coming a slow start early on in the season, Keenan now sports an impressive 5-2 record. While concentration might have been directed to the production of 
By ROBERT MITCHELL crunch time as the next two Sports Writer weeks will decide the playoff participants. At this time, the 
As the women's Interhall first two positions belong to basketball league approaches Pasquerilla West and Lyons, its regular season conclusion, but from there on, it is a heated battle for playoff spots anybody's guess. is being waged. So far this Pasquerilla West possesses season, the key word is parity. the only perfect record at 6-0, No team has been able to take having yet to play Farley and hold of first place and pull Howard. In their most recent away from the pack. In fact, action, PW defeated Breen there are six teams in conten-Phillips, 39-29. This contest was tion for four positions. highlighted by the vu•.i).Q,llUJLllf'o 
_.-..iiiii-liii'-iiiliiiiiiii.-.ii.iillllliiilllliiiliillllioiilfllipiliiiiiiiiiilliliiiiillllliii~l. Sunday night, Lyons found 
Swiss skier nears
Summer 
Associated Press 
MOUNT ALLAN, Alberta­. 
Switzerland's peerless Pirmin
STORAGE Zurbriggen took a major step toward his second gold medal of the Winter Olympics on
RESERVATION
..----------tlTuesday by winning the down­
683-1959

CALL NOW 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2 V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
WANTED: 

Ambitious peop~le to be campaign managers for :: the Hart and Gephardt campaigns in the Mock National Convention. 
If interested call Steve. x1654 


the Revue as tlie team 
struggled early, Keenan has 
been providing most of their en­
tertainment these days on the 
hardcourt. Junior forward Tom 
Dywer realizes the road ahead 
will not be easy though, as the 
Keenanites encounter a for­
midable Morrissey squad in 
their next engagement. 
The Holy Cross Hogs utilized strong performances by 6'6" junior center Tim Woods and 6'4" forward Mike McCleary, in never relinquishing the lead they held from the opening whistle. Senior guard John Sheehan commented on what this five-point victory over Sorin meant to his team. 
Because the tournament is one of double-elimination, the first-round losers will continue playoff competition in the loser's bracket. Defending champions, Sorin , and Stan­ford A-2, both with their backs to the wall, will square off Cathy Kronenberger. This duo enabled PW to extend and maintain their halftime lead. Breen Phillips (4-2), one of the six contenders, was lead by Cynthia Duckien who poured in eleven points. Another good ef­fort was put forth for BP by Ann Curoc, who scored nine points in one half of play. 
Lyons, the second place team, has an impressive record of 6-1. Their sole defeat was at the hands of PW. On 
~fFJ@!Rllf~ 
are better with 
Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·867 

tonight. 

Eight teams are currently vying for the crown given to the League's B division champion on March 6. Sorin B had little trouble keeping its undefeated status in tact, as the Otters downed Flanner in a Iaugher Monday night. It took a contro­versial call and an eighteen foot buzzer shot by Bobby Rasta, for the O.C. Whites­oakes to do away with a per­sistent Dillon team. With the win, the Whitesnakes earned the right to challenge Sorin B Tuesday night. 
Two more Off-Campus teams joined this pair ifl the winner's bracket. O.C. Madison Ave. remained the other undefeated team in the B division, mauling Grace by a wide margin. The Off-Campus team, skippered by Mike Szymanski, victimized Cavanaugh B, making a date with Madison Ave. set for Tues­day. 
hill portion of the men's com­bined by nearly a half-second. 
Results of the downhill will be coupled with those of a slalom on Wednesday to deter­mine a combined champion. 
The combined is returning to the after a "''-'vP~Jr themselves on the hot seat trying to ward off Farley (2-4). Lyons nipped Farley 34-32. Their victory was keyed by clutch free throw shooting. Lyons, which led the majority of the game, was the recipient of a fourth quarter surge by Farley that just fell short of handing Lyons a shocking loss. Captain Debbie Niichel attri­butes her team's success to its cohesiveness. 
"Nobody really stands out, we play together as a team and 
page 11 
The Observer I John ShJdeba er 

Men's lnterhall basketball playoffs are underway and upsets have been the rule thus far. Chris Paullson has the details at left. 
.. 
so far it has worked out well," 
said Niichel. 
In other competition, Lewis, 

the defending champion, was 
the receiver of the weekly bye. 
They sport a 4-2 record and are 
led by Sue Lippa and Cindy 
Averdo. Breen Philips and 
Walsh are the two remaining 
teams on their schedule. 
This weekend, Walsh posted 

their first victory of the season 
by conquering Pasquerilla 
East (3-4). Walsh's record is 1­
5. 
2nd gold 
absence. Since 1982 the com­
bined, with separate downhill 
and slalom races, has been con­
tested in the World Alpine 
Championships. 
Zurbriggen, who overtook teammate Peter Mueller to win the regular men's downhill on Monday, was timed in 1 min­ute, 46.90 seconds in the com­bined race. It was held on the 
same course as Monday's race, but was shortened by moving the start down the hill by about 200 yards. 
Franck Piccard of France, the bronze medalist in the reg­ular downhill, was second in 1:47.38, and Felix Belczyk of Canada was third in 1:48.24. 

Steven Lee of Australia was tentatively listed in third place at 1:47.39, but he was later dis­qualified for missing a gate. 
Luxembourg's Marc Girar­delli, one of the favorites for the combined title, did not start the downhill. The official rea­son for his absence was given as a sore elbow stemming from an injury in a downhill fall at Leukerbad, Switzerland, last month. Girardelli said his el­bow was still causing him prob­lems when he pushes off at the starting gate. 
But the headstrong, some­times petulant Girardelli may have had another reason for not racing. He reportedly is embroiled in a dispute with his ski manufacturer over prepa­ration of his equipment for Monday's downhill. 

~---­

The Observer 
I Trey Raymond 
the dual meet win below. 

Irish wrestlers thrash Olivet 38-7 
By CHRIS KILEY McCann. "However, we lacked be number one. Right now they Sports Writer intensity. I guess that is be­are in the top five in the na­cause we came into the match tion." 
It'sall in a day's work. That expecting to win." McCann feels optimistic is what the Notre Dame Jerry Durso and Mark about the Irish chances for wrestlers must have thought as Gerardi recorded pins and Ron NCAA Tournament qualifiers. they rolled past the Olivet Com­Wisniewski and Chris Geneser "I think we can have six kids ets in a methodical 38-7 victory followed suit with technical in the Nationals," said last night in the Joyce ACC Pit. falls. McCann. "Gerardi could be the 
The Comets were no match The Irish now set their sights number one seed in the for the Irish, who won eight of on the three remaining dual Regionals, based on his upsets. ten matches, two by pin, and meets and then the NCAA Layton also has a decent two by technical fall. Regional Tournament at Notre chance if he continues to 
The victory put the Irish back Dame on March 4-5. wrestle well." 
on the winning track after two "If we wrestle hard our disappointing losses against remaining matches, I think we The 6-4 Irish will face Central Michigan and Ohio State. can be the number two team in Michigan on the road Friday 
"We wrestled well," said the Regionals," said McCann. before traveling to Indiana Irish Head Coach Fran "Northern Iowa will definitely University on Sunday. 
OSU jockeys for NCAA bid 
Associated Press The Big Ten's top three Hawkeyes in the conference 
teams -Purdue, Michigan and race. 
CHICAGO -Big Ten basket­Iowa -appear shoo-ins for the 'I think Purdue is going to be ball coaches said Tuesday they NCAA tournament. very difficult to catch," said Il­think at least five and probably "I'd like to see all10 of them linois Coach Lou Henson. six conference teams should be going," joked Wisconsin's But Frieder thinks his Mic­picked for the NCAA tourna­Steve Yoder, whose Badgers, higan team might do it. ment, and that two other 3-8 in the conference and 9-12 "If we keep winning into the schools have a shot at the NIT. overall, are in a battle with last week of the season, we'll 
"It depends on Ohio State, I Minnesota, Michigan State and be in position going into the believe. Five should go for sure Northwestern at the bottom of Purdue game with a chance at and we can make a case for six the Big Ten standings. the title," he said of the March because Ohio State belongs in "We might be a longshot to 5 showdown between the the NCAA Tournament," said get into the NIT," said Clem Boilermakers and Wolverines Michigan Coach Bill Frieder. Haskins of Minnesota, 9-12 at Purdue. 
But Ohio State's Gary Wil­overall. "I think Michigan liams said his team's standing State might also get into the was still unresolved. NIT." 
"We have to win some games 
coming up to be considered. If The Spartans are 8-13. 
we don't then we shouldn't be The NCAA announces its se­
considered," Williams said. lections March 13. The compe­
Last year, six Big Ten teams, tition begins March 17 and the 
including Ohio State, got NCAA title game set for April 4. 
berths. The Buckeyes beat The Big Ten team with the 
Kentucky and then lost to Geor­best chance at the NCAA title 
getown by 3 points, while In­this season appears to be the 
diana, which had shared the Boilermakers, ranked No. 2 in 
league crown with Purdue, the nation behind Temple. 
went all the way to win the na­Purdue, 10-1 in the league 
tional title. and 21-2 overall, is coming off 
This season, Ohio State, 13-8 another impressive win, a 73-66 
overall, is tied at 6-5 in the con­victory Monday night at Iowa, 
ference with 16-8 Illinois and 14-to stay one game ahead of Mic­
7 Indiana. higan and three in front of the 
STUDENT/YOUTH FARE. EACH WAY BASED ON ROUND TRIP FROM CHfCAGO. CALL FOR FREE STU·
JUNIORS, 
DENT TRAVEL CATALOG. 100'S OF 
OTHER DESTINATIONS AVAILABLE 
TO BUDGET TRAVELERS. 
Find gifts for your parents at the 
COUNTRY HARVESTER 
uncil Trave 
lliE SHOPPE for 
29 E. Delaware • Chicago, IL (312) 951·0585---1
treats and nice gifts 
*The Bookstore Alternative 
~··········<4 
Wednesday, February 17, 1988 

D.C. star, Bias fan suffers similar fate 
Associated Press seys, dozens of trophies and 
newspaper clippings highlight­
FORESTVILLE, Md. -A sub­ing his athletic career. A Time 
urban Washington, D.C. high magazine cover of Len Bias 
school on Tuesday mourned the with the headline "The death 
death of football star Rico of the dream" is among the 
Leroy Marshall -a senior who posters on his wall. 
idolized Len Bias and faced an "He met Len Bias before, 
athletic career just as promis­and when he died it tested him 
ing until apparent involvement so bad," a friend Rodney 
with drugs took him to the Simms, 19, said of Marshall. 
same end as his hero. "He just couldn't understand 
Many students at Forestville how it could happen." 
High School were in tears on Bias, a basketball star from 
their first day of school since the University of Maryland 
Marshall's death Saturday. died June 19, 1986, froiD. cocaine 
Marshall's family continued intoxication two days after sig­
to deny their son was involved ning to play with the Boston 
in drugs, despite the story of a Celtics. 
girlfriend who said that hours Simms said if Marshall did 
before he died he told her he have drugs and saw police com­
had swallowed six chunks of ing he might have panicked. 
crack to hide them from police "If he had something like 
-and despite his arrest in that he knew he couldn't get 
December for possession with caught with it," said Simms. 
intent to distribute cocaine. According to police reports, 
Marshall, 18, appeared to Marshall's girlfriend, Belinda 
have everything going for him. Hill, said Marshall picked her 
A record-setting running up at 2:15 a.m. Saturday and 
back, he signed a letter of in­told her he had swallowed the 
tent last Wednesday to attend drugs when he saw two uni­
the University of South formed police officers ap­
Carolina. The next night he won proaching him about an hour 
a school talent contest for his earlier on a street known for 
singing. drug transactions. ..,.~ 
"I can't believe that he was Although the police stopped 
involved with drugs," said his Marshall, they did not arrest 
mother, Carolyn Marshall. "If him. 
it comes down to the stories On Dec. 22, at the same loca­
being true, it will really shock tion, police said they arrested 
me. It will really devastate all Marshall. A minor at the time, 
of us." he was charged with possession 
Toxicology tests to deter­with intent to distribute 
mine the cause of death were cocaine after police found 29 
expected to be complete by grams of the cocaine deriva­
Friday. tive crack on him in 66 plastic 
The Marshalls live in the bags. 
Glenarden Apartments, in a 
notorious drug dealing area of Police sources, quoted by the 
the county. But his family said Journal, said he was released 
he wasn't a part of the traffick­to the custody of his parents 
ing that surrounded him. after receiving a reprimand 
"He hated it here," said his and probation from a commu­
mother in an interview with the nity arbitrator in the Juvenile 
Prince George's Journal. "He Services Unit. 
knew a couple of little guys His father, Leroy Marshall, 
around here who are into drugs denies knowing about the ar­
and he tried to get them to rest. 
straighten up." Forestville High School prin­
Marshall's bedroom is cipal Paul Lewis said Tuesday 
decorated with his football jer-he wished he had known. 



------------------~-~----­
Wednesday, February 17, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Todays Events 
Ice Hockey: 4:00p.m. West Germany vs. Austria 4:15p.m. Czechoslovakia vs. Norway 8:15p.m. U.S.S.R. vs. U.S.A. Figure Skating 
10:00 a.m. Men's Compulsories Ski Jumping 
3:30 p.m. 90-Meter Team Luge 
12:00 p.m. Ladies 3 & 4 Run Disabled Skiing 
1:30 p.m. Cross Country 5 km. Cross Country 
12:00 p.m. Ladies 5 km. Speed Skating 1:00 Men's 5000-Meter Curling 
10:30 Round Robin 
ABC Coverage 
8:30 to 11:00 p.m. Ice Hockey, U.S.S.R. vs. U.S.A. Figure Skating, Men's Compulsories. Ski Jumping, 90-Meter Team. Alpine Skiing, Men's Combined Slalom. Speed Skating, Men's 5000 Meters. 
11:30 to 12:00. Highlights of the day's events. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
CLASS OFFICE AND OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER ELECTIONS 
FOR TIIOSE IN11':RESTED IN DECLARING ll{EIR TICKET CANDIDACY FOR Tim OFFICES OF DiE CLASSES OF '82 '90 A@'9! Jl!ESE DATES ARE OF GREAT IMPORTANCE· 
Informational Meeting for Prospective Candidalcs: 
1HURSDAY, February 18 
6:00 pm Notre Dame Room. 2nd floor LaFonune 
MANDATORY Mccring for Declared Candidalcs: 
TIJESDAY, February 23 
6:00 pm Notre Dame Room, 2nd floor LaFonune 
Petitions RcquWci for Candidacy Due: FRIDAY, Fchlwy 26 
12:00 noon in the Snxlan Government Offices, 2nd floor Lafortune 
CAMPAIGNING BEGINS: CAMPAIGNING ENDS: 
IEUC1110N DJllf: 
Runoff Campaicning (if necessary) Runoff Election (If necessary) 
TIJESDA Y, March 1 
MONDAY, March 7 II midnight 
TIJESDAY, March 8 
Wcdne$day, March 9 Thursday, March 10 
U.S. hockey team hopeful after loss to Czechoslovakia 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta -The 
U.S. hockey team is right where it expected to be, if not where it wants to be, in the Win­ter Olympics. 
"We figured to be one-and­one at this point," said public relations director Mike Schroeder as the U.S. team prepared to play the second­seeded Soviet Union Wednes­day night. "Looking at the schedule long-range, it appears now that West Germany will be our most import~nt game." 
That game will be Sunday and it could determine whether the Americans reach the six­team medal round. 
The U.S. team began Olym­pic play with a 10-6 victory over Austria last Saturday, as ex­pected, and lost to Czechos­lovakia 7-5 Monday night, which was also expected. The Czechoslovaks are seeded third in the Olympics and the United States is No. 7. 
If form follows in this tourn­ament, the Americans should· lose to the second-seeded Soviets Wednesday night and beat No. 10 Norway on Friday night. 
That would give them a 2-2 record and force them to beat No. 6 West Germany to have any chance for a place in the medal round. The West Ger­mans are 2-0 so far after a surprising victory over Czec­hoslovakia on opening day and a triumph over Norway. 
But even if the Americans defeat West Germany next Sunday, nothing is guaranteed for them under the complicated Olympic system. The top three teams in each pool advance after the five-game round 

but one of the determin­
ing factors could be the score of the U.S.-West Germany game. At this point, the Americans have to beat the West Germans by two goals. 
The American players have taken note of all the games that have gone against form in this tournament. 
"The Swiss weren't supposed to beat the Finns and the Ger­mans weren't supposed to beat the Czechs," said Corey Millen, the scoring leader of the U.S. team. "Hockey's a funny game." 
And the Polish team wasn't supposed to give Canada a tough time before losing 1-0 and 
·Group Charters & Tours • Card Tables 
• 
Restrooms • Radios 

• 
Your DESIGNATED Driver • Tape Players 


CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617 
I,---NI)-AVE-APTs.--l 
Early Bird Special I 1 Now renting for Fall I 1 2 Bedrooms completely furnished I I Sign up before break and Call 1 
234-6647 j 
TO SIGN UP IN THE DINING HALLS TO BE A DELEGATE! 
tying top-seeded Sweden 1-1, either. 
"There's a lot of parity in this tournament," said Art Berglund, the general manager of the U.S. team. "People don't realize how many good hockey teams there are in this year's Olympics. They can all skate well." 
Like many of the American players, goaltender Mike Rich­ter figured his team would be 1-1 after the first two games. But when the Americans jumped to an early 3-0 lead against the Czechs Monday night, he wasn't thinking "1-1" anymore. Then, he was think­ing "2-0." 
"Any time you're up with a lead like that (3-0 after 6:08 of the first period), it really hurts to lose it," Richter said. 
If he was upset by the loss, 
U.S. coach Dave Peterson didn't show it. 
Asked how the team would react against the Soviets after such a "crushing" loss, Peter­son responded sharply. 
"It's not crushing," he said. "Those are your words, not mine. It was really only a one­goal loss (to the Czechs). They got an empty-net goal at the end. It was a disappointing loss because we lost the lead, but not the end of the world:' 
Rutgers 
continued from page 16 
"It was game in which many things went the way we wanted in terms of pace and tempo," Littlepage said. "We wanted to keep it a halfcourL game. Our nemesis -our inability to make shots -~mrt us because we dido 't make good shots. We just couldn't put it down when we had to." 
Rutgers was lead by Tom Savage's 18. Steve Watson had 14 off the bench, and Anthony Duckett added 13. 
IRISH ITEMS -The win was the first in six attempts for the Irish in the Meadowlands. "It never entered my mind when they made their run at us," Phelps joked when asked about breaking the jinx ...In the first game of the doubleheader, Seton Hall downed St. Peter's 79-70 behind 23 points from John Morton and 20 from Mark Bryant. 
TuMdey'l Reaulte 
Notre Dame 75, Rutgere 82 
Notre Dame (75) 

M FG-A FT-A R F p Stevenson 31 2-7 o-o 4 3 4 Robinson 21 4-5 3-3 2 3 11 Voce 37 5-10 0-1 5 3 10 Fredrick 29 2-6 3-4 1 3 8 Rivers 37 11-16 5-8 6 3 29 Connor 4 1-2 o-o 0 1 2 Ellery 6 Q-2 o-o 1 1 0 
J. Jackson 11 1-2 0-1 0 1 2 
T. Jackson 1 o-o o-o 0 0 0 Nanni 1 o-o o-o 0 0 0 Paddock 19 2-4 3-4 12 3 7 Singleton 3 Q-1 2-2 0 0 2 
200 28-55 18-23 31 21 75 

FG Pet. -.509. FT Pet. -.696. Team rebounds -7. Turnovers -9. Assists -18 (Rivers 9). 3-PT shooting -Fredrick 1-1, Rivers 2-4, J. Jackson Q-1. Technicals-none. 
Rutgera (82) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Perry 24 2-9 o-o 4 2 4 Savage 34 5-9 7-8 3 4 18 Peterson SO.OQ-0120 Carter 34 0-4 2-2 4 2 2 Campbell 29 1-8 2-2 2 3 5 Dixson 93-4Q-0126 Duckett 28 5-12 3-5 8 4 13 Watson 34 5-7 4-5 4 2 14 
200 21-53 18-22 71 21 82 

FG Pet. -.396. FT Pet. • .818. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -15. Assists -8 (Campbell 3). 3-PT shooting • Savage 1·2, Campbell 1-3, Watson Q-2. Technicels ­none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 36, Rutgers 30. Of­ficials-Jerry Donaghy, Joe Forte, Steve Gor­don (all ACC). A-10,358. 

--------------~----~-­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 17, 1988 
ND women to take their show on the road 
By THERESA KELLY only home loss at the hands of points, 6.2 rebounds per game) out for the season with knee in­Despite the problems, the Sports Writer fourth-ranked Tennessee. Six and center Terri Miller (11.9 juries. Reserve Carol Elliott is Irish still hope to have a strong of the team's final seven games and 8.7). out indefinitely after surgery. showing on the road. "We've Y-ou can't take it with you. are on the road. "They play a good game," Starters Mary Gavin and beaten some of these teams this Especially when 'it' is the "It's a lot tougher to win on McGraw said of the Vikings. Lisa Kuhns missed practice season," McGraw said. "We'll home-court advantage. the road than at home," said "They hustle, they work hard this week due to injuries. This do all right if we play up to our 
The Notre Dame women's Irish head coach Muffet on defense, they press a lot. is a fine time for the Irish to be capabilities." basketball team will put its 15-6 McGraw, ''but it doesn't mean They're tough on defense." travelling.record on the line as it takes to we won't win." The road schedule looks even "Mary's back is really bot­So even though the Irish the road tonight against In last season's meeting the tougher for the Irish as injuries hering her, and Lisa's knee is won't be able to take their Cleveland State. Irish easily defeated Cleveland are hurting the team more now still giving her problems," home-court advantage with 
Five of the six Irish losses State 85-68. The Vikings are 6-16 than at any point in the season. McGraw said. "The team looks them, they can still move have come in their 11 road this season and are led by for­Starter Diondra Toney and key really tired, too. I guess it's just closer and closer to a 20-victory games this season, with the ward Debra Taylor (12.1 reserve Annie Schwartz will be that time of year." season. 
~··· .-----...----------.......
'

Ill~~ ~~~~ :~;;:;;~;:> >~;:;;;~;~;~;;;;;;;;;;:~;;~~~;~;~;~;;
Injuries take toll on Irish track 
By PETE GEGEN Searcy (ankle) and Chris in the distance events. Junior Sports Writer McGuire {leg) all have nagging Ron Markezich qualified for injuries but have not missed the IC4A's in the 5000-meter run 
~CLUB
As usual the Irish track team any action. last weekend, as did the dis­has done well this indoor "It seems like we've had tance medley relay team. season, relying on its deep dis­more injuries than in the past,'' 
WEDNESDAY •
This weekend the team
tance corps and a slew of said Piane. "But we're still 
talented freshmen. doing well in other events." travels to West Lafayette for •
• DOLLAR IMPORTS
But what is not known is that the team has suffered a rash of injuries which has knocked one relay out of chance to qualify for the NCAA championships, and a potential NCAA qualifier in a field event has left the team. 
Three-fourths of the two-mile relay team has fallen to injur­ies. Freshman Mark Lavery has missed the season with ten­donitis in his foot, and sopho­more David Warth missed the Central Collegiate Conference meet with a severly sprained ankle. According to Irish head coach Joe Piane, both runners are expected back in the near future. 
Out for an even longer period of time is senior Nick Sparks. Sparks reinjured his foot in the Michigan meet, the same foot which prevented him from being a member of Notre Dame's all-American two-mile relay team in 1986. 
Lavery, Warth and Sparks were expected to team with sophomore Mike Rogan in the relay. 
The injuries eliminate any chance of making the NCAA championships," said Piane. "I thought they would qualify. It's still not out of the question, though, that Warth could qualify in the 800." Warth has recorded a time of 1:50.4 in the 800 already this season. 
Picking up the slack in the 800 has been Rogan and fresh­man Kevin Whalen, who ran a personal-best time of 1:55.7 at the Central Collegiates last weekend. And freshaman Matt Ronzone owns a first-place finish in the 1000 at the Meyo Invitational. 
The Irish also have lost their best performer in the field. Sophomore shot putter Tom Kraus, who set several meet records and qualified for the IC4A's as a freshman last season, left the team for per­sonal reasons last week. 
"He has done it with my blessing," said Piane. "He feels he needs to get away from track and field for a while. 
"As a coach it's very hard to see him walk out the door, but as a friend I feel he needs the break. It's like Lou Holtz telling 
! t 
Tony Rice he could leave now." 
Among the sprinters, senior Tony Ragunas has come back after an illness and will run the 60-yard dash later in the season. 
"Tony is really fresh," said
~ 
Piane. "I expect him to have his best outdoor season ever." Hurdler Glenn Watson (knee) and sprinters Yan 
the Indiana Intercollegiates. 
Most of the success has come 

JAMAl CAN KlSS 75¢ 
• THURSDAY • 
ENORMOUS 
Large resort in Glacier National Park, MT is seeking SOUVENIR C:VP $1.2.5 DRAFTO~LYIS~ student employees for the 1988 summer season: 
MAL\BU Pl\\JEAPPLE 75¢
Waiters-Waitresses, desk clerks, cooks, salespeople, 
FRIED" MUSHROOMS JUST${
cocktail servers, office, service station and main­
tenance personnel. Monthly salary including room 
and board. A representative will be interviewing 
• FRIDAY LUNCH • 
February 22 and 23 from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. 
FEATURING OUR. REGULAR LUNO-\ in the Career and Placement Service office. Please 
MENU PLUS LENTEN LUNCI--1 SPECIALSsign up for an appointment. 
OPEN NOON-2.prn 
The Registrar's Office has sent a mailer to each student who is expected to graduate this May. It contains the potential graduate's 
NAME and HOMETOWN as they will appear in the commencement program and the NAME as it will appear on the diploma. 
If you have not received a mailer, and expect to graduate this May, or if you would like to make any changes to either your name or hometown, please contact the Registrar's Office before February 19, 1988. Graduate students should contact the Graduate School Office-ROOM 316 Administration Building. Law students should report to ROOM 1 06 of the Law School. Questions about your Degree! Major should be directed to your Dean. 
Diploma name changes requested after February 19 will require a $15.00 charge. 
You will receive a-commencement ticket request form by March 1 , 1988 together with information about announcements, caplgown rental,etc. 
Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D. Dean of Administration and University Registrar 

Wednesday, February 17, 1988 
The Observer page 15 



Calvin and Hobbes 
'{()l..J \XlNILOOK 
L1Kt. t>. ~t.Ri 
IIAPPY OWL. 
~************************~ 
~ ~ 
~ J:.. Saturday, March 5 ~ ~ ~ tl'. at Theodore's .1) 
It 


~ ~ 

l
~ $200 GRAND PRIZE!!! t ~ ~ ~ 
J 
I
********Sponsored by SUB ~ ** tl 
Interested acts should contact Maura (x2745) or Mark (x1184) by Feb. 19. 

Wednesday 
12: 10 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
12:15 p.m. SMC Center for Spirituality's Signals of Grace Lecture, Father John Dunne on suffering, Stapleton Lounge. 
4:20 p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Self Organization, Fractals, and U Noise," by Dr. Per Bak, Brookhaven National Laboratory, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 4:30p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Geometry of Normal Surfaces," by Dale 
Cutkosky, Columbia University, 226 CCMB.  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Catfish Pasta Bar  Shrimp Stir Fry Baked Fish  
Stuffed Shells Three Cheese Croissant  Fresh Veggie Quiche Deli Bar  


Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
Comics 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Hospital area 5 Fisherman's 
hook 9 Squander 14 James or 
Tommy 15 Ms Logan 16 Dumb one 17 Darkens 18 Slmba 19 -Domingo 20 Omit 22 Greek slain by 
45 Everyday All Rights Reserved article 

1 Shore bird by her son 
2 Quick on 38 Glove 48 Golf club one's feet 41 Telegraph parts 3 Pay keys 49 Brazilian 4 Venetian slain 42 Mother of dance by her mate Romulus 50 Kitchen 
5 Solidify 43 Confine Implement 
6 Pen name 44 Oh woe! 51 Do away with 
The Far Side 
52 Lets out 53 Recreation 
area 54 Fabulist 55 Ancient lt. city 56 Vex 60 Asian ox 
Gary Larson 

46 Astringent 47 Samuel's 
teacher 48 Whirl 49 Fish 53 Egyptian 
suicide 57 Bony 58 Passageway 59 Sticky 61 011 land 62 Alma­63 Exile Isle 64 Eyas' home 65 Urge 66 Durable wood 67 War god 
DOWN 
7 Scourge 8 Zealots 9 Magi 
10 Edle or Joey 
11 -Fein 
12 Oz dog 
13 Collar type 
21 Verve 
23 Macho 
25 Llxlvlum 
28 Hymn 
29 Roberts 
30 Ignite 
31 Mug 
32 Egyptian Christian 
33 Bengali nurse 
34 Wan 
36 Roman slain 

-~-------~­
-~ -~-------­

s orts 
Rivers leads 2nd half spurt as Irish lance Rutgers 75-62 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Rutgers basket, the 6-0 senior rebounds, six on the offensive Sports Editor came up with a steal and fed glass. Paddock's rebounding Gary Voce for an easy jumper. was especially key after the EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Again in transition, Rivers Scarlet had cut the lead to 50­It was billed as David Rivers' pulled up for a J in the lane. 46. Paddock went to the line for homecoming, the New Jersey Suddenly Rutgers, which had two shots, hit the first and native's last appearance there only trailed by four minutes missed the second. But the in an Irish uniform. Most eyes earlier, was out of it. sophomore dashed down the were on him and the senior That's when Rivers hit the lane for the rebound and was guard did not disappoint. shot of the night. He drove the fouled again. This time he 
When Rivers checked out of lane, twirled in the air and canned both and the stage was the game with 25 seconds to layed in the finger roll. It was set for Rivers' heroics.
I 
J play, he had scored 29 points, simply an amazing perfor­"We were struggling
• handed out nine assists and mance for the native of Jersey rebounding, and that's why 
even came up with six City. Rutgers stayed in the game ast rebounds in leading Notre "David Rivers was anxious long as they did," said Pad­t Dame to a 75 -62 victory over to go home and play his last dock, who set a career best in 
t Rutgers at the Meadowlands. game in New Jersey," said rebounding. "Once we asserted "I played an adequate Irish head coach Digger ourselves on the boards, we game," Rivers said in the un­Phelps, whose squad now were able to get the outlet to 
' 
t derstatement of the year. "I stands at 15-7. "Like Sunday David. He was able to lead the was looking forward to coming against UCLA, when it became fastbreak."
I home and seeing my family. showtime, David knew what Up until then, the game had Yet, I had a job to do. We had to be done." been played deliberately, to be couldn't afford to lose to Rut­"David Rivers is the all­polite. The Irish led by as many gers. I'm glad it worked out American we all know he is," as 12 twice in the openingwell." said beleagured Scarlet Knight half,but the Scarlet climbed Quite simply, it was more head coach Craig Littlepage, back in it to trail by six, 36-30, than "an adequate game." whose club lost its 16th-straight at halftime. Rivers put on a one-man show in falling to 3-19. "We felt that But while Rutgers got the in the stretch. With the Irish up even if he got his and we could game going at its pace, it 53--46, Rivers showed all the control the others, we would be simply couldn't hit enough moves that Notre Dame fans in the ballgame." shots to stay in the game. The have grown so used to in the But the Scarlet Knights Scarlet Knights entered the last four years. couldn't control the rest of the game shooting near 40 percent First he hit a three-pointer Irish. Gary Voce had 10 and from the floor, and Tuesday from the top of the key. He fol­Keith Robinson added 11. night they could do no better, 
~ 
The Observer I File Photo

lowed by whipping a behind­The biggest contributor was shooting just 39.6 percent (21­the-back pass to Scott Paddock Scott Paddock, who came off of-53). David Rivers was the driving force behind Notre Dame's 75-62 win for an easy slam to increase the bench to score seven points over Rutgers last night In New Jersey. Dennis Corrigan has details the lead to 58-46. Following a and more impressively grab 12 see RUTGERS, page 13 of the game at left. 
Alvarez named new Irish defensive coordinator 
resigned last Wednesday to be­A former halfback at Penn and Fazio during his nine-year
Special to The Observer head coach Lou Holtz. Next 
come the special teams and State, the 55-year-old Moore stay at Pitt. year will be his first attempt at 
Barry Alvarez, who served tight ends coach with the Na­coached under Jackie Sherrill While at Pitt, he coached coaching defense, after coach­as the Notre Dame outside tional Football League's At­
Jimbo Covert and Bill Fralic, ing the offensive line for Min­linebackers coach last season, lanta Falcons. who currently star for the nesota in 1984 and 1985 and the has been promoted to defensive Alvarez also will serve as in­Chicago Bears and Atlanta Fal­tight ends the past two yearscoordinator for the Irish. side linebackers coach next cons, respectively. His tenure for the Irish. 
season. at Pitt followed 17 years of high 
Alvarez joined the Notre George stewart, last year's school coaching in western Nobody has been announced Dame football staff last season tight ends coach, will be the Pennsylvania. as the new defensive line coa­following an eight-year stint at new outside linebackers coach. ch. Joe Yonto, last season's de­the University of Iowa. He was During the last two years, fensive lines coach and a 24­linebackers coach at Iowa, and Joe Moore, a former assis­Moore worked as the offensive year veteran of the Notre Iowa went to the Rose Bowl in tant coach for Pitt and Temple, line coach at Temple. Dame football staff, accepted two of his years with the Haw­joins the Notre Dame coaching Stewart heads into his third a position as special assistant keyes. staff as tight ends and offensive year as a coach for the Irish to Athletic Director Dick 
He replaces Foge Fazio, who tackles coach. and his sixth straight under Rosenthal last Wednesday. 

'Nameless' Olympians provide great moments 
There is little else which can grip a world audi­ence like the Olympics can. 
Nameless faces and faceless names. Before the games begin, most of these athletes are well known only in their own country, some only in their own state or province. When they reach the site of the Olympiad, they don national uniforms which iden­tify their origins and loyalties. But there is some­thing which exists above and beyond national ties. 
Years of training and sacrifice have been dedi­cated to the dream of competing in the Olympic Games. Underneath the uniforms and helmets there is a drive to excel. And that drive has brought thousands of athletes to Calgary for two weeks to live out the dream, to race for the gold and to cap­ture the attention and hearts of the world. 
There are some talented athletes in Calgary right 
now. And some crazy ones, too. Like the former 
Bronx fireman who now luges for Puerto Rico and 
the 'Flying Finn,' Matti Nykaenen, whose gold 
medal winning form in ski jumping is rivaled only 
by Michael Jordan. 

Traditional sports like basketball, gymnastics and track make the Summer Olympics a little closer to home for weekend athletes, but the wild and woo­ly, not to mention chilly, Winter Olympic sports are amazing. The luge, the bobsled and downhill skiiing take intense concentration and just a few loose bolts. These men and women have prepped for years to take on the elements in Calgary, where there are more elements than oil a periodic chart. 
The same people who have brought us the "thrill of victory and the agony of defeat" for years are bringing us over 90 hours of television coverage from Calgary. Since the 1976 Winter Games in In-

Brian O'Gara 

Irish Items 
nsbruck, Jim McKay has called the shots for ABC at the Olympics. 
The agony of defeat came quickly in these Games. America's Dan Jansen carried to Calgary the dreams of his dying sister, Jane, in his quest for a medal in 500 meter speed skating. On Sunday, their dreams came crashing down when Jane died Sun­day morning and the distraught Jansen slipped on the first turn of his race. The hearts of a nation slipped with him. 
There are plenty of opportunites for the thrill of victory to pick up those hearts, however. And when one speaks of Winter Olympics and thrills of victory, one can still faintly hear the echos from Lake Placid chanting, 'USA! USA!.' 
Those were magic moments in upstate New York in 1980, when that town by the lake was anything but placid. When the Olympic torch was first lit, candles were being lit throughout homes in America for the 52 hostages in Iran, who were in their 15th week of captivity. The nation was badly in need of a booster shot. 
It came from the most unpredictable of sources, the U.S. Olympic hockey team. The Soviet team was invincible, or so we were told. Apparently Mike Eruzione and his teammates did not hear that. 
His blast which put the Americans up 4-3 may not have proven that our way of government was better, but it did say that our hockey team was better than theirs, if only for a day. 
Tonight in Calgary the team names and the com­mentator will be the same. The USA vs. USSR, with ABC's Al Michaels doing the play-by-play. Team USA will once again be overwhelming underdogs. But it's happened before. And there is no better man to be calling the game than Michaels, whose joy as the clock ticked down in Lake Placid was symbolic of the pride of a nation. 
"Do you believe in miracles? Yes!!" 






