~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Semi-Super Tuesday 
Mostly cloudy and continued mild today, with the high in the middle 50s. Cloudy tonight with a 60 percent chance of 
IACCENT: 'Balloon! Balloon!' 

IVIEWPOINT: Students make difference 
showers. 


Vol.XXI No.1 06 TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Schlesinger predicts new age of liberalism coming 


By DAN MURPHY conservatism and liberalism. "parade of scandals" during wealth over commonwealth policy will not work, and the Staff Reporter He said the private action of the Reagan administration is a nourishes the propensity of cor­nation should commit itself to conservatism is giving way to ruption in the government." an affirmative government
The United States will soon the public purpose and affirm­Schlesinger also cited the which will "contain and con­return to an era of public pur­ative government of rise of the moral majority as a trol'' the power of large corpo­pose and affirmative govern­liberalism. "by-product" of the conserva­rations. 
ment, predicted historian Ar­tive phase. "Evangelical Schlesinger, who served as thur Schlesinger, speaking at "A few years from now, moralism and economic con­assistant to President John F. Washington Hall last night. Reaganism will seem a weird servatism characteristic of the Kennedy, is the Albert Schweit­
Schlesinger foresees a and improbable memory," conservative swing are bad zer professor of humanities at 
"sharp change in the national said Schlesinger. "When the 

bedfellows, said Schlesinger. City University of New York mood," saying 1988 "will wit­smoke of the neo-conservative Moralism wants to "put gov­and is a Pulitzer Prize winner 
ness the burnout of the most rhetoric drifts away, it will be­ernment into our beds," while in history and biography. He recent conservatism. come obvious how little differ­economic conservatism has also received the Guggen­"In my own judgment, ence Reaganism has made." "wants to get government off heim Fellowship, the Bancroft 
Reaganism is finished, bank­The shift in the nation's poli­our backs." Prize and two national book rupt, used up and over," said tical attitude is occurring be­awards. He discusses his Schlesinger. "At last it is truly cause people are growing In the wake of Reaganism, predictions about the nation's bedtime for Bonzo." bored of selfish motives and Schlesinger said he advocates post-Reagan political mood Schlesinger bases his are seeking some meaning in direct government interven­and direction in his most recent 
forecast on a perennial thirty life beyond the fast buck and tion in the nation's economy. book, "The Cycles of Amercian year national cycle between themselves, he said. The He said Reagan's laissez faire History." 
>J.#;~'< 


~:­
Bush leads Republicans;
~h-," ~·· 
w··clr 

:....-., Democrats too close to ca II 
Associated Press 
Massachusetts, hoping to emerge from the Super Tues­" ·'"' 'fl: Republican presidential day contests in his home state
._ i 
~~;w\··'illli 
rivals searched Monday for a and 20 others with a delegate 
=~'i:~·. ~~ f1J ,·'"' .~'· way to stop George Bush from lead, campaigned at a retirees'
-·l
t'l ·~ ~ 
; 'iW a clean sweep on Super Tues­condominium development in day, while democrats scoured North Miami Beach and picked 
' .:$'li 
'4'lt the South for the votes that up the backing of Annie Acker­
~ 
could propel one of them out of Earlier, the Kansas senator man, 74, a one-time Chicago ' ..• " the tightly bunched pack on the said in Birmingham, Ala., "My ward organizer now known for biggest primary day in U.S. philosophy in the South ought her prowess in turning retirees history. to sell like hotcakes, but so far out to vote. She called him "a Vice President Bush said a it isn't happening. Bush is get­person of integrity who gets sweep of the 17 GOP primaries ting a lot of ruboff from Ronald things done" and "a mensch," 'was "too much for anyone to Reagan." using the Yiddish word for good 
expect." But he was leading Dole claimed polls show man. 
polls in virtually every Super "that I beat all the democrats. Asked if Super Tuesday was 
Tuesday state except Missouri, (Bush) doesn't beat any of a flop in bringing moderate and 
where Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas them We ought to conservative democrats back 
had a narrow edge. nominate a winner instead of a to the party's fold, the governor 
Even Dole conceded in Okla­loser." replied, "It's not been a flop for 
homa City "it's fair to say Gov. Michael Dukakis of Mike Dukakis." 
Super Tuesday to 'backfire' 
By MATT GALLAGHER bers, Walter Mondale and cater to the realities of the Senior Staff Reporter Geraldine Ferraro, to head the southern political spectrum, 
The Observer I Jim Brake 
party's ticket. said Arnold, Gore is trying to
Thank you for your support 
Today's presidential prima­come across as a moderate, Frank Bartles and Ed Jaymes make a pitch in a life-sized campaign ries in 20 states, popularized by This is the first time the strongly pro-defense. poster to students at the South Dining Hall. the media as "Super Tuesday," United States will experience a 
will probably backfire against regional primary of this type, But those who conceived of those democratic leaders who Arnold said, pointing out that the regional primary failed to

Senate approves 
planned it, said Peri Arnold, over 1000 delegates will be cho­take into account the great or­professor and chairman of the sen for the two parties' national ganizational and financial re­department of government and nominating C()nventions. sources that a candidate would SUB commissioners international studies. Nevertheless, the southern need in order to win, said Ar­
By GREG LUCAS Hering was involved in a con­"Super Tuesday" is an at­democrats who conceived of nold. As a result, candidates Copy Editor troversy when he was in charge tempt by southern democratic this plan failed in their attempt strong in finance and organiza­of the lottery for student tickets leaders to gain more control in to switch the direction of their tion, such as Dukakis and Vice 
The Student Senate approved for the Michigan football game. their party's national platform party, said Arnold. He said the President George Bush, are ex­by unanimous consent the eight SUB director Janel Blount said and choice of candidates for campaign in the South has pected to do well today. 
Student Union Board commis­at the time that Hering president, Arnold said. turned into a populist cam­The Republican Party stands sioners for next year and dis­reserved tickets for friends According to Arnold, south­paign, with northern liberals to gain from today's southern cussed implementing a revised who did not work for the SUB. ern conservative democrats such as Michael Dukakis and primary, said Arnold. Their 
version of the student govern­Members of the SUB· steering saw an opportunity to prevent Jesse Jackson the apparent support in the South has grown ment constitution Monday committee said at the time that the northern, more liberal wing' front-runners. recently, as conservative white night. Hering had been reprimanded of their party from once again voters have left the Demo­
Before the senate approved for his actions. sekcting the Democratic Arnold pointed out that other cratic Party. the appointments of the SUB "We thought he was the best Party's candidate for presi­democratic candidates, such Said Arnold, "Super Tues­commissioners, there was person for the job," said Brian dent. Southern democrats saw as AI Gore, portrayed them­day' is a great example of so­some discussion of the re­Reilly, SUB manager-elect, the party's loss in 1984 resulting selves as "Super Tuesday" cial scientists planning some­appointment of Jim Hering as from the northern democrats' candidates, virtually ignoring thing and then watching their services commissioner. see REVISION, page 4 choice of two of their own mem-the primaries up to today. To expectations not play out." 
-
r----------------------~----------------------------­
page 2 
' .


In Br1ef 
Gambia will become an emergency landing site for the space shuttle under an agreement signed Monday between the United States and the African nation. Under the agree­ment, NASA will locate specialized navigational aids at this tiny African nation's Banjul airport. The landing strip would be used if a failure or poor performance of rockets causes the shuttle to fall short of the speed needed to get into orbit. 
r 

Of Interest 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes meets this evening at 7 in the multi-purpose room of the Center for 
1 
Social Concerns. An FCA video will be shown. -The Ob­server 
Holy Cross Associates Program applications are due March 25. See Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns or Jane Pitz, HCA Office, Moreau Sem" inary, for more information. -The Observer 
Dick Rosenthal, Notre Dame athletic director and former C.E.O. of St. Joe Bank, will speak on "Business Ethics, the Business Aspect of Athletics and a Marketable Curriculum for Arts and Letters Students" tonight at 7 in 124 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
Auditions for "Bent" by Martin Sherman will be held at 7 tonight in the lab theatre of Washington Hall. No experience necessary. -The Observer 
Meet your major continues today. English will be from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in 104 O'Shaughnessey, theology will be from 7 to 8 p.m. in 341 O'Shaughnessey, and an­thropology will be from 8 to 9 p.m. in 210 O'Shaughnessey. 
-The Observer 
Ex-F.B.I. agent ,John Ryan will give a lecture called "A Crisis in Conscience" as part of the Peacemaker Series of the Institute for International Peace Studies today in Room 121 of the Law School. he will discuss the circum­stances surrounding his firing from the F.B.I. for refusing an order to investigate an antiwar organization. -The Ob­server 
Herb True, a nationally renowned humorist, will be speaking on "The Biggest Kept Secret on Being Success­ful" in the Hesburgh Library lounge tonight at 7. -The Observer 
ISO Presidential Elections will be held on April 
7. Anyone interested in running must contact either Marianno at 272-6562 or Jozef at 283-3861. All International Student Organization members are encouraged to run. 
-The Observer 
Dismas House application deadline has been extended to March 11. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. If interested, contact Kathy 
_ Royer at the Center or at 239-7862. -The Observer 
Off-campus sophomores can pick up informative class newsletters at the Sophomore Class Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center this week during normal office hours. -The Observer 
The Catholic Faith Series concludes tonight from 7 to 8:30p.m. in Keenan-Stanford Chapel when Fr. Drew Christiansen speaks on "Morality". -The Observer 
Jesse Jackson Mock Convention campaign committee will have an organizational meeting at 9 p.m. in 357 Cavanaugh Hall. All individuals interested in Jack­son's national or Mock Convention campaign are invited. For more information call John Farley at 283-1531. -The Observer 

Design Editor .................... Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint Copy Editor Design Assistant ............... Pete LaFleur . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........... Richelle Aschenbrenner Typesetters .... ................. Dana Jannotta Accent Layout.............. Kathleen Moran ..................................... Mark Ridgeway Typist . . . Jenn Conlon News Editor... . . Christopher Julka ........................................ Lynsey Strand Copy Editor .. . .......... Michelle Dall ND Day Editor .................. David Lee Sports Copy Editor ......... Theresa Kelly SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine 
Photographer.. . ................. Jim Brake 
Tuesday, March 8, 1988
The Observer 

Opening Day at the Rockne Horror Show 
Yes, folks -it's true, and it's coming to a theater near you. Live and in full color, it's The Rockne Horror Stamp Show, featuring touching reminiscences of our glorious past and starring Ronald Reagan as the Gipper. 
What is this event? Why this gala show? Well, after specially released previews, here is what the critics have had to say: 
"A truly remarkable performance. Football and politics, nostalgia and weepy sentimen­tality, history and Hollywood are all blended together into a telling account of one man's heroic struggle to overcome self-doubt andes­tablish meaning and goodness in the world. Ronald Reagan as the Gipper is a protege of the all-American values immortalized in this make belie~e production." --Newspeak 
"Clearly a must-see for the whole family. An unforgettable tale of devotion to God, Country and the mythical land called Notre Dame. A legendary figure magically condensed onto a thumbnail sized square of paper is brought to life in a touching tribute to the leader whose values ought to inspire us all." -The Sarcastic 
"Get out your plaid pants and green sweaters for this one. The Rockne Horror Stamp Show is the next best thing to heavenly hosts of angels 


Jim Carroll 
Photo Editor 
M
THI 


ROGKtii B 
HORROR

ITAMP
,.,. 

~ 

singing the Fight Song with the Holy Ghost .__________________, 
playing the drums." --The Alumni News 
"Rituals of rice throwings, squirt guns, toilet paper and umbrellas make The Rockne Horror Stamp Show a cult occurrence appreciated es­pecially by devoted followers of pigskin politics. Carefree college audiences will also enjoy the sparkle and pageantry and an afternoon out of class." --The Absurder 
"Well, Sebert, I think he <Reagan) manages to convince the audience for about five-eighths of the film. But after a while the jokes start wearing thin and people demand action instead of talk. The high idealism and comradery of the football field isn't carried through to real life politics, making "Rockne Horror" a fairy tale that ultimately does not convince serious viewers. The acting is pretty good but tends toward the overworked cliches of Notre Dame tradition." --Bean Hiskell 
"Yes, Hiskell, I agree for the most part about the plot running out of steam and becoming too involved with incidents of crime and wrongdo­ing, but you have to give the man credit for just coming out. After all, there is but one true Gipper in the land, and he is it. "Rockne Hor­ror" picks you up when you're down and makes you feel good all over. I say thumbs-up for this show. It's entertaining, and you certainly get your money's worth." --Rodger Sebert 
Meanwhile, outside the theater, a small group of protesters is gathering. Tickets are free for this historic event, but not everyone seems eager to participate. 
"We'd like to see the show, but we're really too busy trying to solve some serious problems 
that keep threatening bearded student from  our a  future," local m says ovement  a  
promoting world peace.  

"Yeah," says another member of the group, "our tax money is being spent on nuclear weap­ons when we already have more than we could ever use. Illiteracy rates in this country are so bad that many of our friends wouldn't be able to read the subtitles anyway." 
A third member of the group adds the follow­ing: "We'd rather see the growing infant mor­tality rate stamped out than more great tradi­tion stamped in." 
"Shame on you," chirps an onlooker from the general audience. "How dare you protest in public like that! Someone might hear you and then think bad thoughts about Notre Dame. Don't you know that the proper time to discuss such matters is when you're alone and no one can hear you?" 

MORE NEWS FROM MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
Many faculty changes and additions have been made since 1986, when the Department of Materials Science and Engineering adopted a new name. Dr. Albert E. '1iller a Professor at Notre Dame for 20 years is the Chairman. He is a graduate of .The Colorado School of Mines and Iowa State University. His interest'\ include high energy permanent magnet materials whose superior ability to store magnetic energy has led to a new generation of high performance motors. The results of his work performed at Notre Dame, on companion materials, contributed to the development of a new material used in advanced Sonar devices. Currently he is active in a research and development effort aimed at engineering a family of electrically conducting ceramics to replace traditional gold and platinum coatings as elecrrical 
contacts in critical low voltage applications, such as computers. Other effort'\ to extend these material~ to future power application$ requiring moving contacts to carry current densities in excess of 2000 amp!>. em' while moving at speer!!; over 200 meters/sec have met with rr.i~ed success. 
Dr. C. 8. Alcock, Freimann Chaired Pwfes;or in Engineer­ing. joined the 'vl~~erials Science and F.ngineerin)! fa c u I t y i n 

August 1987. Dr. Alcock received his training at the University of London and had been a Professor of Metallurgy at the University ofToronto until joining Notre Dame. As a world authority in high temperature thermochemistry with interests in ceramic materials, Dr. Alcock is well suited to the chore of directing the Department's Center for Sensor Materials. Efforts are underway to begin the research necessary to develop a ceramic based sensor for oxygen. The joint effort with several industries will lead to a probe which can be inserted into hot exhaust gases to seme oxygen levels and hence serve to i n d i c ate when combustion c o n t r o I i s n e e d e d. Instrumentation of this type can save millions ofdollars annually by enabling fuel to be burned more efficiently and significantly contribute to pollution control efforts. Uses of the probe to detect oxygen dissolved in molten metals can lead to an improved product. Other applications of this materials advance could improve the efficiency and extend the life of every steam boiler used in power generation, including those in nuclear reactors. 
Dr. Thomas II. Kosel, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1976, after his education at the 
Argonne National Laboratories. His interest in wear mechanisms and efforts to develop criteria for selecting the materials variables most influential in determining the wear life of a system component has led to predictive c o m p u t e r models. Implementation of these models can yield improved machine designs and alloy processing conditions that will significantly lengthen a systems operating life and increase its productivity. The focus of these studies is the recurring problem of loss of material when impacted by a particle-erosion. Jet turbine engines, steam power plants, coal gasification systems, and all other systems where entrained particles flow over surfaces at high velocities are prone to erosion. Localized loss 
of fractions of an ounce of material at bends can lead to total system failure. Understanding this material removal process and establishing preventative measures is an important engineering objective of this work. 
Watch for more information on new junior faculty. 
For more infonnation: 
Df.fARTM'"~T OF /IfA TF.RIAL' SciENCE 
AND ENGIVEE.Rl!WI 
Roo\1384 frTIPAI'I<ICK HALL 
239-)330 

De o..ner (USPS 599 2...000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& eum and vacation periods. Tile OMener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchu­ed for~ per year (S2.5 per semester) by writina ne Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame,lndiana46556. 
ne Ollllner is a member of ne .u.odaled Pnu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

~----~~--~-~-~--~------1 
Tuesday, March 8, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Supreme Court to decide on ~ :· law against adult bookshops 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Su­preme Court said Monday it will decide whether states may use anti-racketeering laws to close down adult bookstores ac­cused of selling obscene ma­terials. 
The court said it will review free-speech challenges to In­diana's Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law, patterned after the much­used federal RICO act. 
Under it, law enforcement of­ficials are authorized to seize any property used in a rack­eteering enterprise. 
The justices were told that"a growing number of states are 
• adopting similar RICO laws, and there is a conflict among the states as to their con­stitutionality." 
In other action, the court: 

• Ruled that companies have a heavy burden of proof when defending themselves against 

Sex experts: Iittle 
Associated Press claim, he said, "I simply 
believe this." Johnson, asked 
NEW YORK -Sex experts the same question, said "I'm Dr. William Masters and Vir­not sure we chose the word ginia Johnson said Monday 'rampant' ourselves." they could not provide scien­On page seven of their new tific evidence to support their book, they write: "The AIDS widely publicized claim that virus is now running rampant AIDS is "running rampant" in the heterosexual communi­among heterosexuals. ty." 
When Masters was asked at The book, "Crisis: Hetero­a contentious news conference sexual Behavior in the Age of how he could justify such a AIDS," was made available to 
You 


Dual Floppy Drive 
The Zenith Data Systems Z-159 Enhanced PC is IBM PC®-compatible and faster than the IBM PC/XT®. It's everything you'd expect in a powerful, flexible, expandable PC. And we're throwing in a few extras ... 
Now, the Z-159 Enhanced PC can be yours at a great student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­stration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! 
So stop by today. And see the Z-159 Enhanced PC for yourself. See you soon! 
investor lawsuits alleging the companies withheld informa­tion about merger discussions. 
• 
Agreed to use a case from Canton, Ohio, to try again to decide whether cities may be sued successfully by citizens who say their rights were vio­lated by inadequately trained city employees. 

• 
Set the stage for an impor­tant sex-discrimination deci­sion by agreeing to study a Dis­trict of Columbia case in which "unconscious stereotyping" al­legedly played a key role in denying a woman a partner­ship in her accounting firm. 

• 
Refused to free churches from having to comply with state financial disclosure laws when waging public referen­dum campaigns as it rejected an appeal by 13 churches in Jackson County, Tenn. 

• 
Ruled that financially troubled farmers may not avoid foreclosure under federal bankruptcy law by 


promising to pay back debts by using their labor and expertise while continuing to operate their farms. 
In the adult bookstore case, the Indiana law was invoked in 1984 against three Fort Wayne bookstores selling sexually ex­plicit materials, each accused of at least two violations of the state's obscenity laws. 
Law enforcement officials padlocked the stores and seized all inventory. 
Similar legal action was taken against three bookstores in Indianapolis and two bookstores in Howard County. 

An Indiana appeals court ruled in 1985 that applying the state RICO law to those whose only offenses are alleged AP Photo
Picking and grinning
obscenity law violations imper­missibly hinders constitution­On the verge of Super Tuesday, Pat Robertson beams as he shakes ally protected freedom of hands with supporters in South Carolina. Robertson has said he must speech. win this state if he is to remain a contender. 
basis for claim on 
reporters Monday morning. that nationwide screening of 
The first reports of its contents blood donors has found that appeared in connection with an only about one in 40,000 has the excerpt from the book pub­potential of being infected with lished in this week's Newsweek the AIDS virus. magazine. 
"We don't see an explosion "The Public Health Service into the heterosexual commu­has been working very hard to nity," said Dr. Peter try to get the best sense of prev­Fischinger, AIDS coordinator alence of HIV infection in the 
for the Public Health Service. United States," Fischinger "This does not mean we can be said. HIV, or human im­complacent about it." He noted munodeficiency virus, is the 

Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center x7689 
or 

Fourway Computer Prod. 
Brad Koch 277-7720 
Zenith data systems 

data 
systems 

THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON 
© 1987, Zenith Data Systems 



AIDS 
virus that causes AIDS. 
Dr. Stephen Joseph, New York City's health commis­sioner, said of the Masters and Johnson study, "All in all, I think it's greatly overblown." He criticized them for not sub­mitting their data to a scientific journal where it could be reviewed in detail by other re­searchers, and he said their data did not support the sweep­ing claims they made. 

suggested retail price: $1599 Special Student Price: 
$949 Single Floppy with Special Student Price:
Hard Disk suggested retail price: $2199 $1249 
page 4 

Revision 
continued from page 1 
who added that Hering had not asked for the service commis­sioner position, but that it had been offered to him. 
"I know he's sorry, and I know he realizes that he made a mistake," said Janel Blount, SUB manager. "I think he would be one of the least likely people on campus to do some­thing like that again," Blount said. 
The senate also discussed proposals for revising the stu­dent government constitution. The proposed revisions would simplfy the constitution as a whole, rather than being a con­glomeration of incongruous al­terations, according to Brian Holst, student senator, who in­troduced the proposal. 
"The entire purpose is to make the document less am­biguous," Holst said, adding that most changes are merely "cosmetic." 

The proposed exclusion orthe Spring walk P::~nama Ca!!aL 
ture of the positions," saying this did not downgrade their importance. 
Judicial coordinator Brendan Judge disagreed with Holst. "The Judicial Council fosters an awareness of student rights .... I think that's a voice that shouldn't be stifled," he said, adding that the council represents the campuswide constituency. 
But Holst argued, "The Judi­cial Council can function in its capacity without being a mem­ber of the Student Senate." 
He added that the same was true of the student body trea­surer, whose sole purpose is the maintenance of the $400,000 student government budget and not policy making. 
Senior Class President Diane Fitzgibbon criticized this. "I think the treasurer is more than a bookeeper," she said. 
"The issue is that the student body treasurer is strictly an ap­pointed position," said Pat Cooke, student body president. 
"I'm not saying that the stu­dent body treasurer has no opinions, but, in terms of voting privileges on senate, it gets a little more hairy," Cooke said. 
The proposed revisions will be voted on next week. In other business, the senate approvedDanWalsh,junior,as 
next year's business board manager. Walsh has served on Adworks for two years. 
·-~----~-~----­

The Observer Tuesday, March 8, 1988 
Retirees protest

freeze on 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama ­Thousands of retired people un­able to cash pension checks blocked traffic and shouted "Where's my money!" on Mon­day. A U.S. judge extended a freeze on Panamanian funds in American banks. 
The government assured pensioners they would get their money and promised to set up payment centers at the capi­tal's Bingo Hall and soccer stadium. As of Monday after­noon, the centers were not in operation. 
In Washington, a White House spokesman said the Reagan administration was considering economic and trade sanctions against Panama, including withhold­
The Observer I Jim Brake ing monthly payments for the 
judicial coordinator and stu-On a sidewalk whose cracks extend as neatly, geometrically into thl;l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
dent body treasurer as voters distance as a computer graphic, two students leave O'Shaughnessy Hall I in the senate, however' drew yesterday afternoon. As spring returns, the snow has melted to reveal some debate. an entirely new campus. 
Holst justified this exclusion ~E::::-~----------------------------~~~~~
because of the "non-elected na-11 
t..***********************************************•**
2


i$ MATEO'SOBS $2 j
* * 
: Presents : 

i* Two Buck Tuesday! ~ * 
* * 
~ Any 7" Sub for Only $2.00 ~ 
* *
! Free Delivery 271-0SOB E : '"The Most for the Least from : 
1 
* j$2 $2 !* 
The Beast from the East" ........************************************************* '--'-------_-_--­

assets 
A Panama Canal Commis­sion spokeswoman denied media reports that port aut­horities were requiring cash payments from ships traveling through the waterway. 
Local banks were shuttered for the fifth straight day. 
Most of the country's 60,000 retired people picked up their social security checks for the first two weeks of March, but they were unable to cash them. The checks were for between $60 and $250. 
"Noriega, tyrant, your end is drawing near! " shouted several hundred pensioners and their supporters outside the Gago supermarket on the main Via Espana Boulevard. 
The chant referred to Gen. 
Manuel Antonio Noriega, com­
mander of the Defense Forces 
and the nation's de facto ruler. 
EXOTIC BOOTS SALE 


IDAN POST, NOCONA, TONY LAMA, J. CHISHOLM I IGUANA LIZARD NOW$19915
Reg. 270°0 
ANY STYLE-ANY COLOR MEN'S or LADIES' 
GENUINE ALLIGATOR 
Reg. 550°0 
NOW139915 

.--. 
FULL QUILL OSTRICH 
Reg. 550°0 
NOW144915 SMOOTH NOW$20915
Reg. 28500 
PYTHON, BOA, WATER SNAKE 
$t7~jlia5 NOW112915 •122500 
MEN'S & LADIES'
• 
ELEPHANT Reg. 27500 NOW 120915 
KANGAROO 
SPECIAL112915 *116915 
-%~.::::~SALE PRICES GOOD UNTIL MARCH 20 ~) -~ 'J' 1.....~ OPEJIIOIL-UT. ~J .;. '·' ,(~ 1011-IPI ~ 
' ~.' · '"""'-=-=~...=..;._ ~} • IUIIDAY ~~ 
.. ·-_. ·,RANCH:\~·:' 11111 """"'·I
--__ 
111111

55~5 Fir Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 259-1111 One mil• north of us 20 on Fir Road 

-~ 
I 
I 
.I 
;l 
·~ 
•,I 'I·,' 
)i 
·' 

I 
I 

--------------------------------------------------------------------~------·------------------~ 
Tuesday, March 8, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Iran, Iraq escalate missile, bomb war 
Associated Press IRNA said 30 civilians were 
killed and more than 100 
NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iraq and people, mainly women and Iran unleashed a new round of children, were wounded in the missile attacks on each other's recent Iraqi missile attacks on most heavily populated cities residential areas of Tehran. It Monday and sent warplanes on reported the first missile bombing sorties against demolished a clinic, a school provincial towns in a lethal and several houses. duel that has killed hundreds The reports were monitored of civilians. in Nicosia. 
The official Iraqi News Iraq says it has fired 41 Agency said Iraq fired three projectiles into the Iranian cap­missiles into Iran's capital, ital since the strikes began Tehran, a city of 6 million. Feb. 29. The Iranians have re­
Iran's state-run Islamic ported firing 22 missiles on Republic News Agency said Baghdad in that period, but the Revolutionary Guards fired Iraqis only have acknowledged four missiles into "military 18 hits. centers" in Iraq's capital, In Baghdad, Iraqi Labor Baghdad, in retaliation for Minister Baker Mahmoud "these inhuman acts" and shot Rasoul said Iran ignited the a missile at the northern city "war of the cities to pave the of Mosul for the first time. way for its new (ground) offen­
Both sides reported that their sive." border towns were pounded by Iraqi Vice President Taha sustained artillery fire and air Muhieddin Maarouf, also ad­raids, killing scores of people. dressing the gathering Monday Iraqi leaders claimed Iran was in Baghdad of Arab labor min­preparing to launch a ground isters, vowed Iraqi forces offensive along the front. would "deal devastating 
It was the eighth straight day blows" to the attackers. of missile exchanges between The missile exchange is the the Persian Gulf rivals. fiercest since the gulf war 
Iraq confirmed that two mis­began in September 1980, and siles crashed into residential the first time that Tehran, 290 sections of Baghdad, a city of miles from the Iraqi border, 5 million, killing or wounding has been hit by missiles. "many civilians, including wo­It is believed to be the first men and children." time that two warring nations 
It made no reference to the blasted each other's capitals reported missile strike on with salvoes of long-range Mosul. surface-to-surface missiles. 

A meeting of the minds took place in seminar. From left to right: Kathleen Quinn, Jim Har­O'Shaughnessy Hall yesterday as junior PLS majors rington, Joe Markey, Susan Paulik and Tom Cash­discuss "War and Peace" as part of their Great Books man. 
Israelis storm bus, six die 
Associated Press least 12 Arabs were shot Mon­right-wing Likud Bloc, which 
day during clashes with ..sraeli has not accepted the peace in­
DIMONA, Israel -Three troops, and the army said Pal­itiatives of U.S. Secretary of Palestinian guerrillas seized a estinian protesters hurled a State George Shultz. commuter bus Monday and grenade at troops, wounding Defense Minister Yitzhak held a group of nuclear plant one soldier slightly in the West Rabin told Israel's Knesset, or workers hostage, killing three Bank village of Idna. parliament, that Monday's bus Israeli civilians and wounding Also, more than 20 Arab tax victims ''were killed for noth­nine others before being shot to collectors in the Gaza Strip sub­ing else but for their being death by police, officials said. mitted mass resignations after Jewish, residents of Israel." 
Army officials said the guer­underground leaflets called for In an anonymous telephone rillas infiltrated from Egypt Palestinians to quit working for call to a Western news agency, and held 10 women and one Israel's military administra­a man claimed responsibility man hostage for about three tion. An army official says the for the hijacking in the name hours. The bus was seized as it resignations are not final. of Force 17, a Palestinian com­shuttled workers of the top­Israeli analysts said escalat­mando group linked to Vasser secret Dimona nuclear plant. ing violence could harden the Arafat's Palestine Liberation 
In the occupied territories, at position of Shamir and the Organization. 
ill'1v(GJ .JJ.}{\V.JB'.IE' lf~ JJ10l(GJ )J(!J~vucOJ JJ~ ~, }j;)((j;~\f "7t Jj l!J$J Jt .:::rit~:ll~/W AJJ?((V 111f!llf}) ,_.,_. ENGINEERING GRADUATE SCHOOL A Short Presentation followed by a Questions & Answer Session TUES. MARCH 8 7:00 P.M. Sponsored byRoom 224, Cushing Office of Engineering Research and Graduate Studies College of Engineering University of Notre Dame  

...---------------------~--------, -~-------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, March 8, 1988 
Official: Mecham ordered cover-up 
Associated Press but not Milstead's own part of 
the conversation. 

PHOENIX -Arizona's top "Because I'm not commit­police official testified at Gov. ting a crime," said Milstead. Evan Mecham's impeachment "I'm not obstructing justice." trial Monday that he realized "When did you conclude that almost immediately Mecham the governor's words con­had committed a crime in or­stituted a crime?" asked Craft. dering the official not to "As I'm hearing them and cooperate in an investigation of reflecting on them," said an alleged death threat. Milstead, adding it took him 
"I was in shock over what he "about two seconds" after was saying, taken aback, hanging up the phone. speechless," said Col. Ralph Craft asked Milstead why he Milstead, director of the State did not write down his conclu­Department of Public Safety. sion that a crime had been com­
Milstead quoted Mecham as mitted. telling him, "I don't want you to help the attorney general "I didn't think it was neces­hang me. Don't tell him anyth­sary," said Milstead. "Anyone ing." with a legal background could 
Milstead said he had phoned read it and see this was an the governor Nov. 15 to discuss obstruction of an investiga­a report that Lee Watkins, then tion." 
a Mecham administration offi­Milstead, the trial's seventh
Chuck Follen leaps through an obstacle course of puddles on his way from the South Dining Hall. 
cial, had threatened to send a witness, took the stand at the former Mecham aide on "a start of the second week of tes­long boat ride" if she didn't timony. Mecham, the first U.S. stop testifying before a grand governor to face an impeach­
Court rules on case of boy 
jury investigating Mecham ment trial in six decades, has campaign finances. not attended the proceedings Watkins has denied threaten­yet.
who suffocated in dishwasher 
ing the aide, Donna Carlson. Zasada said initial indica­release mechanism inside And Milstead has said he Mecham, 63, a first-term re­Associated Press 
cooperated with the attorney publican, is accused in the im­GREEN BAY, Wis. -The ard "very probably died of The boy took off his clothes tions are that Michael Con­the machine, he said. 
general's office. peachment proceedings of death of a 12-year-old boy a lack of oxygen prior to the and watch before climbing 
Milstead, whose testimony is obstructing the attorney whose nude body was found hot water'' beginning to circ­in the machine, apparently 
crucial to the obstruction of jus­general's investigation of the in his family's portable dish­ulate in the machine a week to see how it worked, Zasada 
tice charge against the gover­alleged death threat through washer has been ruled ac­ago. said. 
nor, blurted out his statement his orders to Milstead. cidental, authorities said The boy, who was 4-foot-10 Suicide was ruled out be­
regarding a crime during Mecham, in testimony before Monday. and weighed about 90 cause there was no note and 
cross-examination by Mec­a House impeachment commit­Brown County Coroner pounds, apparently used the friends, family and teachers 
ham's attorney, Fred Craft. tee in January, acknowledged Genie Williams has not offi­soap dispenser inside the indicated the boy was well­
Craft asked why Milstead, in that he may have told Milstead cially ruled on a cause of door to pull the door shut, adjusted and happy, Zasada 
his report on the incident, not to cooperate with the inves­death, but Cmdr. David Zasada said. There is no said. 
quoted the governor's words tigation. 

WOMEN IN PROFESSIONS 
A PANEL DISCUSSION 
Tuesday, March 8th 
8:00 P.M. Washington Hall 
An opportunity to discuss issues concerning women in the professional arena. 
Mary Kay Case Jenne Swartz Lending Officer St. Joseph County Judge 1st Source Bank
Panel Speakers: 
Lois Kress Dr. Cathy Long Dir. of Personnel Emergency Staff Physician Coopers & Lybrand St. Joseph Hospital 

--~w~~---~--~-­
Accent 
........~~..........~............................p~ag~e--7 
\ gives its young
• 

audiences a lift 
rotate between roles of 

accent writer tour manager, Meg MacKenzie Spheroids, Pinheads, and bal­
Rooney, is also the adult super­loons. 
T
he talk this season among visor. She drives the van and After the king of Pinheads is students and theatre buffs supervises the set-up and take­injured by a collision with a around campus has been of down. She has been involved "super strength balloon" and the play "Amadeus". But there with children's theatre in South becomes a "Squiggle", a Is a lesser known production Bend and has worked with despised minority among Pin­by the Notre Dame Communi­Notre Dame productions heads, he outlaws balloons. cation and Theatre Department before. The story relates how the prob­which has been going on for a The simple set includes a lems among the groups are semester and a half. Unlike large chest, some small boxes, finally resolved through com­"Amadeus," however, "Balloon! several sign posts, and a free­promise and balloons are once Balloon!" has been on the road standing ladder. It is the per­again allowed in the land of ancl attracting a somewhat fect set for the imagination of Pin. younger audience. a child to utilize. The actors The actors enjoy the play, as 
Last semester, the crew are responsible to make it , is evident by the energy they toured several grammar work. put into the performance. They schools in the area, mostly on Bain believes that it is a work well with children and can Fridays. This semester, "Bal­good experience for both the grasp and hold their young loonl Balloon!" will visit four­actors and the children. He audience. "Everyone got in­teen more schools. feels children need to be intro­volved because they like kids," 
Written and directed by Pro­duced to theatre and this said Eric Hunter l!'lrime mini­fessor of Communication and "actors-do-it-all" style of perfor­ster, bird). He also S<· rl, "I like Theatre Reginald Bain, and per­mance is a good introduction the kids better thar' m adult formed by Notre Dame stu­for them. audience." dents, the play provides experi­Bain also wants to expose Robin Dvo1dt\ ,···.cond cloud) ence in front of a more actors to children's theatre. He said, "Children dre •eilll: demanding audience: children. said that, although Notre rewarding. They have no inhibi­What's so difncult about Dame's department is not big tions." But, she also warned, working with the little ones? enough to "sustain a larger­"If they don't like it, they'll tell For one thing. "They are more scale program" in children's you right away." vocaL" said Bain. "They wear theatre, "Students should be The most amusing thing tiller emotions on their sleeves. aware of the opportunity." about the performance is the They aren't shy about it." Bain developed the play four participation of the children. At 
The production is "hard work years ago for a child-author certain times they are com­help. The group is being spon­and a good challenge," re­conference and finished it last pletely captivated. They shout Kristen Olson (chief sored by the Dayton Hudson ported Bain. "And the actors year. with the actors "We want bal­Squiggle) said that they have Department Store Company. take pride in what they do." "Balloon! Balloon!" is really a loons! We want balloons!". At a the best audiences "when the The grant covers travelling ex­They put up and take down the story told by a balloon seller to demonstration in front of the teachers sit back and let penses since the group rents a set on their own." the children in the audience. It king of Pinheads, they chant, go." The kids really want to van for each of the perfor­
Since the performances are is a myth about two peoples, "All young Pinheads want bal­participate. "Sometimes when mances. Project Manager Tom always around I p.m., a group the "Spheroids" and the "Pin­loons." At one point, the we ask 'Do you want to help?' Barks contacted Dayton Hud­of students leaves campus at heads", who live in the land of children help the balloon seller they scream 'Yeah! Yeah!'." son because of their reputation about noon. Because Bain has Pin, and their struggle to live to "blow up" three of the actor­Generally, the louder they are, for interest in the arts and a class at that time, he arrives together peacefully. The actors balloons. In a crucial moment, the E>asier it is for the actors. community outreach. 


'Wiseguy's' producer did his homework 
B
ullets and babes are noth­the latter case). "Wiseguy" is Newark State Penitentiary to the plans and instructs Vinnie for Vinnie. It's because of these ing new to a TV cop show. Stephen J. Cannell's attempt to establish a phoney criminal about the opponents. These real characters and situations t'or years viewers have watched revolutionize the traditional record before beginning to take guys are no dummies. that "Wiseguy" deserves a spot "cops and robbers" shows, crime drama. on some of the bureau's proj­"Wiseguy" has a smart new on TV's honor roll. many of which were exact dupl­"Wiseguy," which airs Mon­ects. (This often comes in twist which keeps it out of the Action and suspense play a icates of their predecessors. days on CBS at 10 p.m., is one handy when Vinnie needs to "dunce corner" that contains crucial role on the show, which Thus, the chances of a of television's newest and most convince a mobster that he can many other crime series. The can get quite violent at times. be one heck of a crook.) To plots on the show are continu­There are electrocutions. bom­maintain this charade's authen­ing. It takes Vinnie several bings, and rocket launchings-­Joe Bucolo 
ticity, very few people know the weeks to apprehend the as well as the traditional shoot­truth: Vinnie is really an under· criminals. This adds a superb ings. While the scenes are
To be continued... 
cover cop. sense of realism to the show violent, they are necessarily Besides the Crime Bureau, as do the mobsters. They are violent; there are no violent 
only Vinnie's priest brother "real" people--not two­scenes thrown in for the sake producer creating a smart, new intriguing crime series. Center­(Gerald Anthony) knows. dimensional TV villains. They of spectacle. In addition, crime series are about as good ing around Vinnie Terranova "Lifeguard" (Jim Byrnes) is af­keep Vinnie busy and con­"Wiseguy" is aired in the latest as a producer creating. oh let's (Ken Wahl), this brainchild of a filiated with the bureau, and it stantly "test" his loyalty to their possible time slot to help in­see, a TV series around a man show tells of the Federal Or­is through him that Vinnie families. sure that "little ones" are fast 
who does battery commercials. ganized Crime Bureau's con­communicates with Frank asleep before the show begins. However, some producers have stant struggle to stop crime. McPike (Jonathan Banks), the The characters have such pulled it off (unfortunately, in Vinnie spends 18 months in supervisor. McPike helps lay real personalities that the The .real wiseguy behind the 
viewers are engulfed by and show IS Stephen J. Cannell. immersed in the world With "Hunter" and "Riptide" to "Wiseguy" creates. McPike is his credit, it is no wonder this 
constantly worried about Vinnie intriguing show comes from and asks him to "check-in" with Cannell's desk. Most of the the company more often. realistic dialogue is written by Vinnie has firm convictions but Cannell himself, and the plots realizes his limits, unlike the leave no loose ends; everything superhero types on other is explained. Cannell deserves shows. an "A." 
"Wiseguy" is the most unique The mobsters show compas­and innovative crime series in 
sion for Vinnie and treat him years. Its soap opera pacing kindly when he does as he's and realism make it an hour of told. Other members of the intelligent, suspenseful televi­crime syndicate often become sion. With a rapidly improving jealous of Vinnie and try to GPA (ratings), "Wiseguy" 
\l prove he's really an undercover definitely deserves to be hung of CBS cop. Of course, the revelation on mother CBS' refrigerator of this fact would mean death door for all to see.
Ken Wahl plays Vlnce(left), an undercover cop assigned Lv th• h:de,al <..rime M...reau to apprehend criminals. 
View: 

Tuesday, March 8, 1988 
Students can effect change in policy 
I knew I was getting the short end of the administrative stick. My grade point average was lower than I thought it should be. And it cer­tainly was not because of the effort and ability I exhibited in my classes, but rather it was simply because of the University's grading policy. If those "A-"s would have been worth 
3.67 or 3. 7 points like they are at most other universities, I would have been set. But instead I have a comparably lower GPA than other college stu­dents with whom I will be competing for entrance to graduate schools, jobs, etc. I distinctly remember having those thoughts after receiv­ing my first report card last year. I wish I could say that the recent ap­proval of a plan to add pluses to the University's grading system and ef­fectively raise the numerical value of minuses was the result of a con­sistent effort on my part from that point on. But in fact, probably by the time I was back in school second se­mester, I haa put that complaint in my bank of administrative gripes, and forgotten all about it. That is, until one of the early meetings of the Student Senate last year. 
Dave Kinkopf 
guest column 
Luckily, some of the members of the Senate decided that they wanted to pursue the possibility of adding pluses to the University's grading system. So Student Body President Pat Cooke added this to the list of Senate priorities for the 1987-88 school year, and a committee of stu­dent senators including Mike Car­rigan and Steve Viz and Academics Executive Coordinator Mike Mur­dock began to look at whether this would be a good idea, and how to affect such a change. Their work was aided by the Senate survey, com­piled by the five student senators, which reflected overwhelming stu­dent support (80.4 percent according to the survey) of such a change in the grading system, and solidified in the minds of many that this was a genuine student concern and well worth the Senate's time in exploring its feasibility. The committee talked to a number of people including Dean Winicur who agreed to propose the change to the Academic Council, the body which ultimately would have to approve such a change. Similar proposals had been brought to the Council in years past, but had not been approved. Needless to say, the proposal was eventually approved. So the interesting question to ask is, "Why was the proposal passed this time?" 
Before I go on with my personal reflections on why the proposal was approved, I wanted to make one ob­servation on the change itself. As Sophomore Class President, I saw this issue develop through the Senate discussions and initiatives, then as the Student Government Academic Commissioner, I was privileged to take a more active role in the process of approving the change. The aca­demic commissioner is an ex officio 
· member of the council. He or she also chairs the eight member Stu­dent Academic Council Committee from which the three other student voting members of the Council are chosen. From all these discussions of the change, one feature, I think, needs to be emphasized clearly to students. Unfortunately, this change will not be a magical boost to our GPAs. The facts from available data seem to show that G PAs on the whole will remain the same. The new sys­tem will raise our GPAs in a number of classes, but will probably lower them in an equal number of classes. However, the change makes grading more fair and our grading system more comparable to other institu­tions. 
I would like to discuss two factors which played a role in the approval of the change in the grading system: a new administrative outlook, and the influence of the Senate. As to the actual importance of either of these factors on the final decision of the Council, I honestly would not like to try to estimate. So here, I move away from the facts involved in the ap­proval of the grading change, and take this opportunity to reflect on these two important topics, as I per­sonally see them relating to the change in the grading system. 
" The facts from available data seem to show that grade point averages on the whole will remain the same." 
First of all I saw genuine concern for student op:~ion on the part of the faculty and administration in the process of changing the grading sys­tem. I have not been at this Univer­sity very long, but I have heard all the typical gripes about the cold and close-minded administration, and have echoed those pessimistic remarks on quite a few occasions. Although I do not honestly know whe­ther those gripes would have held true in the past (though I doubt it very seriously), I do know, from ex­perience, that those gripes do not hold right now. I really believe that the administration is placing new en­thusiasm and value on the opinions of students. And this new attitude is personified in Father Edward Mal­loy. If ever there was a time when student opinions were taken seriously by the administration, when there was real cooperation on many levels of the University among administration, faculty and stu­dents, it is now. 

"We must voice our con­cerns through the appro­priate channels, not just gripe about them to our friends." 
In the case of the change in the grading system, it certainly would have been easier to leave the system alone. But the opinion and well-being of the student body was of highest priority in this decision and nearly all student-oriented ones. Student opinion had a large effect on the Council's decision to change the grading system, and student opinion is taken seriously at all levels of the University. I have been privileged to be on one of Malloy's task forces, to be on committees which have re­ported to the Board of Trustees and to the Provost Advisory Committee, and have recommended policies to the Office of Student Affairs. I know other students involved in other task forces, the Faculty Senate, the Honor Code Committee, college councils and many other bodies which make important recommen­dations and decisions for our Univer­sity. So the opportunities for real stu­dent impetus to change are only limited by the motivation of students ourselves. The administration has opened its doors to student input, it is now our responsibility to make ourselves worthy of the administra­tion's invitations. We, as students, must remain informed on the issues that matter to us. We must voice our concerns through the appropriate channels, not just gripe about them to our friends. The student represen­tatives to various bodies take their 
job very seriously and would love the chance to hear strong student opinion on a subject which their body is addressing. We should seek out those representatives, if we truly want to affect a change. If we do not like how something is working, we must first try to understand the reasoning behind it, and try to change it before we complain about it. 
If this sounds like an adverstise­ment for student involvement and student government, in a way it is; and it gets worse. I really think the approval of the change in the grading system is an excellent example of how effective student government can be. It was the Senate's initiative which set the ball rolling and made the issue resurface before the Coun­
cil. It was the results of the Senate's survey and a unanimously passed resolution of the Senate which con­veyed the strong student support of a change in the grading system to the members of the Council. 
Although it took about six months from when the Senate initially dis­cussed the possibility of a change in the grading system to the time when the change was approved, that time is a reflection of how the Senate works, and how it must work with other organizations. The Senate meets weekly, discusses, decides on action, acts during the week, then the cycle starts over again. This is the most effective way in which the Senate can act, but it sometimes takes a little time to accomplish things. The Senate must also act within the schedules of other Univer­sity organizations, for example the Council meets only twice a semester, and the change could not have come about more quickly no matter what the Senate did. 
The Senate also acted in conjunc­tion with the student government cabinet in meeting with the Student Academic Council Committee, and largely because of this joint effort; because of student support and in­volvement, an administrative change was enacted. 
In the end, I'm not so sure that this change will cause the great results which we hope it will, but it will make grading more equitable and more comparable to other schools. It also seems to be an excellent example of how open the administration and fac­ulty are to student opinion and how student representation can be very effective. It is only if we take our responsibilities as students serious­ly, that we will be taken seriously by the administration. This is our Uni­versity, let's be informed on the im­portant issues which face us: apar­theid, AIDS, homosexuality, drunk driving, etc.; and let's tell the Uni­versity what we think. 
Dave Kinkopfis a sophomore biology major and serves as Student Gov­ernment Academic Commissioner. 

Viewpoint  would  like  to  occasionally highlight  
quotes  from  faculty  members,  students  and  
readers. So if you  or  someone  you  know says  

something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, sent the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556. 
Reagan' embarr 
Dear Editor: 
Ronald Reagan s corned to our cam Posturing as "th promoter of much and abroad comes t talgic unreality. 
My particular Southern Africa policy of ·"const ment" has bolster 

P.W. Botha. Rea Congress on ecm vetoed sanctions Council of the Un connived with Br others to maintain for Pretoria. He a: ligence cooperatio. theid state after I Carter cut these C( corned Israel's inti~ with South Africa nor ant of the histor~ Reagan has sho~ ference to the lon! violent resistance t• ing his back on humane leaders-­calibre of Nelson Desmond Tutu, 1 Boesak and the Re (Hon. Doct., Notre 
has ignored the ap~
tions (represent' majority) that w racial South Africa tional Congress, tf 
cratic Front, the ~­
African Trade Uni 
African Council 

stead, while pro horence of aparthei a narrowly conce imperial advantagl South Africa's ra ture. Ronald Rea willing to penalizi destabilization pol adjacent to South Line States. I 
cooperated with t 
military in Angol 
continued illegal 
Namibia and 
Africa's support 
criminately murd 
RENAMO "contr 
bique. 
Ronald Reagan 

having terrible • 
Southern Africa. C 
years, the aparthe 
come ever more v 
sive, knowing that 
the White House. l 
State Department 
ally but issues pro 
tions, for exampL 
and torture of th 
African youth. 
teeth are being sc 
in the despairin~ 
blacks who, quite 
ington as Pretoria 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dama, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Obeerver is the independent newspaper publiahed by the ltudents of the University of Notre Owne du t..: and s.int Mary'a College. It doel not neceuarily reflect the policin of the ldminiltralion of either inltitution. The News ia reported a accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repretent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column preMntlhe views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the tree expreasion of varying opinions on campus, lhrough lenera, ia encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager·······----····--.. ·----····-John Oxrider Managing Editor . ......................... Mill! Pankowski 
.~;:,·c;u!:ing Design Manager ________________ Molly Killen 

N-s Edi«N ....................................Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ StevE! Clark N-1 Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editot .... .............................Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Mar.c.,;er -----·--------·-·····-..... Shawn Sexton AcC*It Edilor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele s.int Mwy's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Grr.phic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stante., Pho(O Editor... . ............... Jim Carroll 
Founded November3, 1811 
---l 

oint 
page 8-9 
I 

I 
I 

j 

P.O. Box Q 

policy of constructive engagement the attitudes of Mr. Winkler and Mr. (Incidentally, 57 journalists from Dear Editor: 
ould not be wei­through continued investment in the Steinbrenner. The cartoon by Steve seven European countries released I am proud to support the policies us on March 9. apartheid system. Nevertheless, it Houser was appropriate. The cloud a communique last month pledging of President Ronald Reagan and I 
Gipper," this seems utterly pointless and over the Olympics is the attitude of their solidarity with the priest, Fa­do so with a clear conscience. I misery at home egregious to allow this man, at the spectators who only count medals. ther La met.) respect the viewpoint of Pax Christi­celebrate a nos-end of a dismal and tawdry Now, law student Michael Latz has Notre Dame, but their objections to 
presidency, to use Notre Dame as a Kathleen Kolberg taken up the cudgels, objecting both his policies are without basis in facts. ·oncern is with prop. The least we can do is turn out Off-campus to my disclosure of Mr. d'Andrea's The objections contain many prob­
here Reagan's and protest one of the worst presi­March 3, 1988 association with Opus Dei and to my lems where they fail to hold sub­uctive engage­dents in living memory. remarks about the organization and stance. First, "the largest d the regime of the way it operates. However, I con­peacetime military buildup" is ab­an has opposed Prof. Peter Walshe Cancel classes tinue to think that it is reasonable, solutely necessary to maintain peace omic sanctions, Director, African Studies in this academic setting, to provide and to protect our rights and the
for Reagan visit

in the Security Government/International Studies a sense of the context out of which rights of our allies in the world today. ted Nations and March 4, 1988 Dear Editor: Mr. d'Andrea was writing. There is Also, there is no so-called "brutal ain, Israel and The President of the United States an obvious correlation between his U.S. aggression" against the conomic support does not frequently visit a university belonging to an organization that Nicaraguan poor, in fact many of the 
o restored intel-campus, let alone the hallowed halls would restrict freedom of speech and Contras, whom we supply, are the 
with the apar­Medals don't of Notre Dame. Regardless of one's his call for the suppression of a poor who are forced to fight for their resident Jimmy stance toward Ronald Reagan, one publication on campus of which he basic rights including freedom. ntacts, and wei­mean everything must realize the magnitude and im­disapproves. Notre Dame is proof that we are not 
ate military ties portance of the position of president Allow me to illustrate the point I an "I-centered" society. There was Essentially ig­Dear Editor: and that this title deserves respect. was trying to make with an analogy. nothing wrong with the Iran-Contra of other peoples, I am writing in response to Jim We should be privileged and honored Let's say that someone wrote a affair other than the fact that it be­an icy indif­Winkler's March 1 article berating that the president is sacrificing time column for The Observer castigating came public before it could produce history of non­the U.S. Olympic athletes. First, Mr. from his obviously busy schedule to the Civil Rights Act. If the writer its goals, which were the release of apartheid, turn­Winkler grossly understates the ac­share with us a special Notre Dame was discovered subsequently to be a our hostages and the legal private 
South Africa's complishments of the athletes. moment. We feel this occasion war­member of the John Birch Society, funding of the Contra "freedom ersons of the Shouldn't Bonnie Blair's skating tri­rants special consideration from the would it be wholly beside the point, fighters." andela, Bishop umphs be mentioned along with Dan University administration. Cancel­when weighing the merits and Pax Christi-Notre Dame hides be­he Rev. Allan Jansen's brave attempt in the face lation of classes for the day would demerits of his opinions and purpose, hind their "conscience" and are 
Beyers Naude of tragedy? How about Eric Flaim's not be out of line. We should, if noth­to mention that the Birch Society had "morally obliged" without any basis Dame, 1985). He world record in speed skating which ing else, be excused from afternoon a history of opposition to the civil in fact for their objections. On March eals of organiza­held for only six minutes and earned classes so that we may all have the rights movement? 9, I will go to see President Reagan 
g the great him a bronze medal? I suppose you opportunity to attend the ceremony. A few days after my letter was speak with a perfectly clear con­ld build a non­could be justified in leaving out the The University's poor handling of published in The Observer, the Na­science. : the African Na­medal performances by our ski team this event shows lack of respect for tional Catholic Reporter carried a 
John Rees

e United Demo­in the Exhibition Freestyle and Dis­the president and the memory of major news story covering a recent 
Carroll Hall

ongress of South abled Skiing if you think they aren't Knute Rockne, to whom the day is meeting of Opus Dei in Chicago. The 
March 2, 1988

ns and the South "real" medals. You could consider really dedicated. Rockne's contribu­meeting was addressed by the or­f Churches. !n­the number of top ten performances tion to the Notre Dame tradition ganization's prelate, Monsignor Al­esting his ab­unless you think that if they are not helped build the foundation on which varo del Portillo. The NCR noted the Pax Christi d, he has pursued third or better they might as well be today's University stands, which is following: Opus Dei avoids ived, short-term last. Several of these top 10 perfor­reason enough for special attention publicity; there were neither pro­protest planned
•by working with mances were the best showing ever by the Notre Dame administration. grams nor brochures explaining ist power struc­for the U.S. PJth in Women's Nordic This event should receive at least the Opus Dei's purposes or activities at Dear Editor: an has been un-Relay) or were medal near-misses same treatment as did Father Mal­the meeting; Opus Dei "flatly "Because of our faith in Christ and 
Pretoria for its <4th by 2100ths of a second for the loy's inauguration. This is a once in refused" requests by NCR several in humankind, we must apply our cies in countries Four-man Bobsled). The two other a lifetime experience, and it years ago for interviews with its humble efforts to the construction of frica--the Front competitors in Men's Figure deserves equal consideration. Chicago area representative. In a more just and humane world." ther he has Skating, Bowman and Wylie, gave short, the usual Opus Dei secrecy. These words of the 1980 Nobel Peace 
e South African strong performances, contrary to Brian W. Einloth The prelate's speech, which is also Prize recipient, Adolfo Perez , permitted the Mr. Winkler's opinion, and may be Patrick A. Hall reported, contains some odd-ball Esquival, embrace the spirit of Pax occupation of in contention for a medal in the next Steven P. Wightkin theology, the brunt of which is an Christi's upcoming demonstration in olerated South Olympics. Stanford Hall attack on the selfishness of Catholics response to President Reagan's visit for the indis­Second, I was struck by Mr. March 4, 1988 who refuse to breed lots of children to campus. We are convinced that rous force of the Winkler's lack of compassion for the for vocations to fill the seminaries. the Reagan administration has not s" in Mozam-athletes who have made many mon­"The marriage. bed," he said, sought to create a more just and 
etary and personal sacrifices to rep­Pettifer rebuttal "should always be regarded like an humane world. We feel called to act s presidency is resent this country. Debi Thomas is altar on which great sacrifices are upon this conviction and have organ­onsequences for an outstanding athlete who put her criticized made." The mind boggles. What ized a nonviolent demonstration out­ver the last eight life on hold to represent us, for her Dear Editor: sport the pornographers could have side of Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC at 11 
d regime has be­the Olympics was not an Ice Capades In responding to graduate student with this! a.m. on Wednesday. Prior to the olent and repres­audition. She did everything possible Thomas d' Andrea's attack on Com­At one level this is flaky stuff. I demonstration, on Tuesday night at it has a friend in to prepare for the Olympics includ­mon Sense for publishing articles would be happy to dismiss it along 7:30p.m. in Lyons Hall Chapel, we nder Reagan, the ing obtaining help from the Ameri­critical of illiberal trends in the the lines of "different strokes for dif­will spend time in prayer and reflec­winces occasion­can Ballet Theater and was under Roman Catholic Church, I disclosed ferent folks" if Opus Dei would con­tion with all who plan to demonstrate orma condemna­intense pressure by a medal-hungry Mr. d'Andrea's connection to the or­fine its theology to its own member­the following day. We invite you to 
of the detention public. She had one bad night--I'm ganization Opus Dei. This was done ship. When it moves, clandestinely, join us in our humble efforts to flower of South sure Mr. Winkler has never had a with some deliberation. I referred to to bring the rest of us into line, I create a more just and peaceful deed, dragon's bad day. She is just one of a number a current controversy over censor­shall continue to cry foul. world. n for the future of dedicated people for whom it just ship in which Opus Dei is deeply ~n­anger of young did not come together at the Olym­volved. At issue is the ousting of a Ann Pettifer Suzanne Moser 
ightly, see Wash­pics. No one dedicated enough to go Jesuit priest from his position as Notre Dame Alumna Pax Christi-Notre Dame s ally. to the Olympics deserves for their editor of a Spanish Catholic weekly February 24, 1988 March 6, 1988 
s visit While the Reagan visit is a deep efforts to be called pitiful or to be for having published pieces which Pax Christiembarassment for many at the Uni­told that they made no effort. express dissatisfaction with the versity, it is, perhaps, an appropri­Last, the article did not seem to reactionary directions Pope John shuns reality
ssing 
ate one given Notre Dame's own show significant differences between Paul II is charting for the Church. 
Doonesbury 
A IAJ(}RKING GIRL RtMEM8ERS OIRJSTIAN 8U51N£355MAN JIMMY 5WAG6ART... 
Garry Trudeau 
81./TCONSIIJERJNGHaAJ BAfJLY C/JMING UP: /..£6/TIMAT8 
fit.'{} TRASHEP P£V£!R81{} /JIIKJ<#. SAT/RicA~ COMM&NTARY. ANfJ R£VCREN/? GORMAN FOR FOOL..ING AROUNI?, I WAS A TU.. TE/..L YOU ON& THING. H/3 
"'-/../TTl& SIJR-WASN'TMUCH OF A TIPP&R. PR15W. / 
Quote of the Day 
"Too many people miss the silver lining because they're expecting gold." 
Maurice Seitter 

page 10 The Observer Tuesday, March 8, 1988 
Sullivan awarded to Abbott 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS Pitcher Jim Abbott, who was born with a deformed right arm, was named Monday as the 58th win­ner of the Sullivan Award as the nation's top amateur ath­lete. 
Abbott, 20, of Flint, Mich., plays for the University of Mic­higan and led Team USA last summer with an 8-1 record and a 1.70 earned run average as it won a silver medal in the Pan American Games. 
As a sophomore at Michigan last year, he started 15 games and finished the season with a 11-1 record. He was also named the 1987 winner of the Golden Spike Award as the country's outstanding amateur baseball player by the U.S. baseball Federation. 
Sports Briefs 
Pasquerilla Westdefeated Breen-Phillips last night (37-29) in the women's Interhall basketball championship. Details will apear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
Grace and Off-Campus were the winners in Interhall hockey semi-final action last night. Grace beat Cavanaugh 3-1 and OC topped Alumni 1-0. The teams will play tonight at 10:30 for the championship. -The Observer 
Trivia Night returns to "Speaking of Sports" tonight on WVFI. Host Rick Rietbrock and the entire executive sports staff will take calls at 239-6400 from 10-11 p.m. -The Observer 
The women's rugby team willhavepracticetonight from 10-11 p.m. at Loftus. Any questions, please call Lauren (3560) or Cathy (4067). -The Observer 
Aerobic instructor applications are now available at Non-Varsity Athletics for 1988-89 positions. Interested students should submit their applications no later April 1. Call 239-6400 for more information. -The Observer 

· ;,_I 
Varsity and novice crew will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 123 Nieuwland to make final arrangements for the Spring Break trip. Bring checkbooks and money from t-shirt sales. -The Observer 
Body fat testing is being offered by non-varsity athletics tonight at 6 p.m. in the NVA office at the JACC. Testing will be done on a first-come, first served basis. Shorts and short sleeves are required. -The Observer 
LateregistrationforWomen'sBookstoreBasketball will be today from 3-4 p.m. and tomorrow from 4-5 p.m. at the An Tostal office, third floor LaFortune. Any ques­tions, call Barbara Tull at 284-5073. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication_. -The Observer 
n.a...-NotAl Dame office, located on the third floof of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, .ccepta classified advertising from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday lhruugh Friday. The a...-Saint tMry's office, located on the third floor of Hauu-Collge Center, accepts clasalfleds from 12:30 p.m. until'S p.m., Monday through Friday. o-dllne lor next-day classllleds Is 3 p.m. All classllleds must
Classifieds be pnlllak:l, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per live charKter8 perday. 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 277· 7406 
Gel ready for Spring Break by selling unwanted class books for $$$ at Pan­dora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open 7 day&' week 10-5:30. 
FAST, QUALITY TYPING $11PG. 258­
4643 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
Losl: Last Semester. A blue lifeguard jacket with gold letters and trim. If you have seen it, please contact John al 1620. P.S. It is part of my uniform. 
Lost. a black. herringbone overcoat at The Commons. It had a checkbook with my name on it in the breast pocket and keys in another. If you picked it up on Tuesday night. I'd appreciate a call. You can keep the coat but I desperately need those keys. Call at. 271-0683 
LOST! LOST!! LOST !! I LOST MY FRIEND'S RADIO HEAl). SET ON WEDNESDAY, J.2118. WHERE? IN THE VARSITY WEIGHTROOM IN THE ACC. PLEASE! IF YOU PICKED IT UP, CALL ME TO RETURN IT. IT WOULD BE GREATLY APPRECIATED BY ME AND MY FRIEND. 
THANKS, VIVIANNE 283-1362 
FOUND: ONE SET OF CAR KEYS WITH LEATHER RING IN D6 PARKING LOT. CALL 283-2824 TO CLAIM. 
LOST: men's gold chain JPW weekend (2/19) at Bridget or Sen. bar. I've looked everywhere. Call Matt-4506 Sent. Value 
I lost my camera at Bridgets on Thursday night (at least I think I lost it there). My senses were not functioning maximally, and if I asked you to take a picture of me and my friends and neglected to get the camera back from you, I would greatly appreciate its return. If you happened to find il on the floor or table I would also greatly appreciate its return. The film in the camera has great value to me. Please contact J.C. at 1209 if found. 
Lost:Mens class ring. On Fri. Mar.3 in lhe huddle or on the way to Keenan. It has my name in it, so if you find it PLEASE give me a call. The REWARD could provide for an exciting spring break.£1239 
HELP!!! LOST WATCH A GRUEN WATCH WITH A LEATHER BAND AND SQUARE FACE WAS LOST LAST DEC. MAYBE LOST IN BRIGETS. VERY HIGH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OF­FERED. IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT IT CALL 277·3226 
LOST: My camera from 205 of the first building of Campusvlew Saturday night. Please return II. Brand new gift from my Dad. Call 271-o844. 
FOR RENT 

RENT CHGO APT! Sunny, lg 1 br In vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd firs, fan, binds, eat·ln kit, dw, walk-In clsts, bsmt storage, lndry. 112 blk to Lk Shore Dr bus, 2 blk to el train, Wrigley. $650. Avail beg Apr 1. 312·871·3397 (ND '80) 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955>255­3684 
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID 288-0955 
WANTED 

GOING TO D.C. FOR BREAK???? We want to share rides with you I Beth needs a ride there, Amy needs one back. PLEASE call Beth 2851 or Amy 4525 
NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES· SEE FOR EASTER BREAK!tllltllll CALL CAROL at 271-Q868 ASAP. 
RESORT HOTELS, Crulsellnes,Airllnes & Amusement Parks NOW accepting applications lor summer jobs,lnternshlps and career posltlons.For Information & appllca· tlon, write National Collegiate Recrea­tion, P.O.Box 8074, Hilton Head Is· land,SC 29938. 
NEED RIDE FROM PITTSBURGH ON SUNDAY, MARCH 20. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 271-Q656. 
Need ride to Akror>Cieveland for break. Call Seema at 234-7638 evenings. 
DRIVING TO TULSA OR ALBER­QUEAQUE FOR BREAK? PLEASE TAKE ME. CAN GIVE MORE THAN MY SHARE OF EXPENSES AND DAUIV· lNG. DESPARATE! CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 10:00 THURS. PLEASE CALL TIM 1856 
FOR SALE 

Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call1·312-742-1142, Ext. 7316. 
Electra Westone Bass¢ Marshall Bass20 Amp. Together or separate. Marty 1106 
NEW CAR STEREO:doesn't fit my car,AMf'M,tape,40WT spkrs,bocster,$100 negotiable­Greg287·3934 
1979 Toyota Cellca Hatchback, $1,000, 239-6859 (day), 277-9834 (night). 
FOR SALE: ONE WAY BUS TICKET FROM D.C. TO N.D. AFTER BREAK CALL 1813 OR 2721. BEST OFFER. 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
NEED" A AIDE TO CLEVELAND, AKRON· CANTON VICINITY OR EXIT 1 1 ON THE OHIO TURNPIKE FOR SPRING BREAK!! CAN LEAVE AFTER 2:30 ON THURS. MARCH 10. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL THERESA AT X4238. 
HELPI I NEED A RIDE TO NORTHERN 
N.J. FOR SPRING BREAK WILL SHAREEXPENSES.CALLFAANK1487 
NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES­SEE FOR EASTER BREAK!tl!llll (OR ANY WHERE IN THE NE.AR VICINITY) PLEASE CALL CAROL at 271-0868. 
"DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY GOAT IS?" 
NAN for UMOC NAN for UMOC NAN for UMOC 
"It's gonna get ugly." (Well, UGLIER!) 
HELP ME GET HOME! I desperately need to find a ride to Long Island or the NYC area for spring break. I will split expenses. etc. and can leave any time. Please call if you are driving in that area. Thanks. Jim (1215). 
Going West on 1-80 for break? I need a ride to Iowa City. Call Faris at 4352. 
Enjoy Coke 
Enjoy Coke 
Enjoy Coke 
To all my LEWIS BUDDIES!!!II Thanks for the best Birthday ever!! Believe me, it was truly "SMASHING"! Love, Maureen. 
True to Life, a lecture by Lawrence Weschler on the exhibilion, Photographs by David Hackney has been changed to 4pm, March 9, Annan­berg Aud., Snite Museum of Art. 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Brolher· Sister Camps seeking staff. all transpor­tation paid. Call collect: (21 5) 663·0366. See us at LaFortune Studenl Center on Thurs.. Mar. 24 from 11 am · 4 pm. 
MR. STANFORD MANIAI!! CATCH IT!I! 
Need ride to DC area for Spring break Call lngo X 2460 with good news 
RUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have your carpet professionally cleaned by The Rug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Off­campus negotiable. We also do fumrture. Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY 
JESSE JACKSON FOR PRESIDENT! A CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE FOR THE MOCK CONVENTION JACKSON CAM· PAIGN WILL MEET TO DISCUSS NA· TIONAL AND MOCK CONVENTION PLANS. MEET IN 357 CAVANAUGH ON TUES 3>8. FOR MORE INFO CALL JOHN AT 1531. 
I NEED A AIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR SPRING BREAK-WILL SHARE ANY EX· PENSES CALL MIKE X3625 
I NEED A AIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS OR CLOSE ON THURSDAY AFTERNOON 3-10 IT'S ON THE WAY TO FLORIDA NICK 2101 or 2100 
SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHOMORE SIBS April 15-17, 1988 Info. meeting March 9-ND ROOM (LAFORTUNE)-7:30 PM ALL WEL­COME! 

Someone should wam freshman boys about going to SYRs with llsheads, but It won't be me... 
MV,Sony if I hurt you in any way You are absolutely beautiful I From.gutless­PK 
so, are you two like, boyfriend-girlfriend? level with me. sporto ... did you slip her 
T.Rae S. I LOVE YOU. Your very special to me. I will miss you very much will I'm gone. Remember I will always be here lor you. Yours Always, ME 
LOST GRUEN WATCH, BROWN BAND. SQUARE FACE. HIGH SENTIMENTAL VALUE CALL 277-3226 
Kelly, I had a terrific time in "Monte Carlo" on Friday night. But what are we going to do with all that money? Thanks for being such a terrific SYR date. Debbie 
Gullet head Happy Birthday! I didn't know little people could ever get so old. Hope you get everything you want for your birthday. If not, we'll go on another panty raid. The Alumni guys 
HEY YOU! HEY YOU! .HEY YOU! ARE YOU IN A CAMPUS BAND? WE ARE LOOKING FOR UNIVERSITY BANDS TO PLAY AT THE GREAT ES· CAPE OF 88 ( A MARATHON CON­CERTtOANCE TO RAISE MONEY FOR CYSTIC FIBROSIS) ON APRIL 15. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED OR KNOW OF A BAND AT ANOTHER UNIVERSITY THAT MIGHT BE -CALL DAVE AT 1851. OUT OF CONTROL! 
Things We Won't Miss XVI: Multiple Choice Exams 
Hey Dogs 
Vote For Train And Eggroll 
But Not Just For Their Good Looks Alone 
Aide needed to MI. Prospect, 11.3-'t 0. Share expenses.Call Jack at "2021 
OKAY PINHEADS! HAD ABOUT ENOUGH OF MEDIOCRE BANDS? FOR SOME REAL ROCK"N"ROLL COME SEE THE SHADES AT CHIPS ON TUES.&WEDS.THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR SPRING BREAK!II I'm going to Exit 12 on the Ohio Turnpike (or anywhere close). I can leave Friday, after lOam. Will share driving and EXPENSES. CALL DAN AT 1155. 
HELP!I! I need a ride to New Jersey lor break. If you're going to north Jersey or anywhere near lhere (the slate is only so big!) and want to share expenses please give me a call. Colleen £4021 
Thank you again St.Jude. 
CLASS OF '89 VOTE N.D.DIEBEL for Senior Class President. GOOD LUCK DIEBEL TICKET!!! 
MARY BROWN !!I! Outstanding CORE intellectual, Crossword fiend and token politico goddess: Sorry, I've got a slow hand ... 
DIET PEPSI was lhe charm Saturday night in lhe Huddle around 10. as you. your sister, and friends were leaving. I WANT TO MEET YOU Ill Write here to DP! 
YO...STANFORD 3EW. THANX FOR (ALMOST) SURPRISING ME. LUCKY FOR ME THE DUMPSTER HAS POOR AIM--YOU GUYS ARE AWESOME. IT WAS A GOOD BD. --COBB 
YO...JULIE, THANX FOR TAKING ME TO AUSTRALIA YESTERDAY AND THANX FOR HELPING ME CELEBRATE MY 22ND · YOU'RE A ONE-DEAFUL PERSON!! --COBB 
Chic as a French model Looks as sweet as mormng dew A smile that cheers the dreariest of souls & Such effervescent laughter too! Such my dear Katherine is the specialness of you All the best on your 21st B-day Cheers throughout all the year too & Thanks for being you Love Mike 
Mac: You're Right I don't have time to call somebody to find out that they're studying in the library 
M.H. The Eagles aren't the only good thing to come out of LA 
To my Big Blue Eyed Pacifist: Roses are red, Violets are blue. 
If I weren't Republican, I'd protest tool 
...Give 'em hell Congratulations on your new position, I'm proud of you!! Love yal!l 
Happy 21st Birthday to James "Fat Man" Brennan. Now you know why today's qalled SUPER TUESDAY 
ABACAB £2 
To the girl who "runs alot", I'm glad that one of us finally had that infamous "dinner at the palace". I guess lhis makes it my turn. 
u. N. o. c. ... ugly nan on campus ... u. N. o. c. 
52872 (That spells you a Ia AT¢T): 
Beware oranges that tell time! 
I deeply regret my grievous mistake lhis weekend. Please forgive me. (Can I make it up to you?) 73447 
Greg. I may be incredibly shy about it, but I still lhink you're awesome. 
JULIANNE KOSTALONSKIII I HAVE NEVER SEEN ANYONE DRIVE SO WELL IN A PARKED CAR­-FROM THE PASSENGER SEAT!! I'VE GOT SOME GREAT PIX-WHAT HAVE YOU GOT TO OFFER?!?! RESPOND HERE-SOON!! MR. NIKON 
ANGEVINS 1986·1987 ..... DINEZ EN· SEMBLE AVEC--MON DIEU, C'EST VAAl--AVEC ANNE MARIE O'BRIEN. TODAY--QUI. AUJOUAD'HUI--LEFT, LEFT, ALL THEWAYTOTHEBACKAT SOUTH AT 6PM--6PM AT SOUTH LEFT. LEFT, ALL THE WAY TO THE BACK. A BIENTOT!!! 
Class of '89 .. Vote N.D. Diebel for Senior Class Pres1dent. Good Luck Diebel ticket!!! 
Dear Everybody Else: Here's a personal just for you and nobody else! ENJOY! THIS IS OUR LAST WEEK!!! 
Desperalely need nde to Dayton I Cin­cinatti for Spring Break. Call Mike at x3178 
AAJAX 
Attentioo Stanford Studs-Y'all were terrific at Monte Carta N1ght. Thanks for a job well done! 
Anne & Maria 
THE REGATTA IS COMING!!! THE REGATTA IS COMING!!! SEE YOUR HALL PRESIDENT FOR DETAILS 
ST.EDWARD'S HALL INVITES YOU TO HEAR FR. RICHARD MCBRIEN, CHAIRMAN OF THE THEOLOGY DE­PARTMENT, SPEAK ON "MODERN CHALLENGES TO CATHOLICISM." THE TALK WILL BE GIVEN ON WED­NESDAY, MARCH 9, AT 8:00 P.M. IN THE FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE OF ST.EDWARD'S HALL. 
Enough ol this Irish Stuff already ... Happy St. Joseph's Day! 
WORJ-11V WORM IV WORM IV SHIRTS SHIRTS SHIRTS £ 2038 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL MOVIE NIGHT FROM THE HIP Tuesday, March 8, at 8:00 p.m. In the St. Ed's first floor lounge 
THE YEAR OF THE BRAVES It begins on April 5. 
DALE MURPHY He's the man who will bring the World Series to Dixieland. 
On April 5, lhe Chicago Cubs visit Atlanta-Fullon County Stadium. They aren't in for any Southern hospitality. An Atlanta sweep starts the Year of the Braves off with a bang. 
How do you spell 1 988 National League Cy Young Award winner? Z-A-N-E S-M-1-T -H 
Sunbunny It's cold at 3 AM The Express 
Put on your raincoat, Ethel. Here comes the girt in the green sedan. 
GO HOME 
To my sister James. Now that you are 21 I finally found a use for you. Happy Birthday! Love, Ann 
Jad. You did a nice job for the first 39 seconds! 
Attention Astroturf dudes We'll be looking for you Wed. nile for a rematch. Phil bring some bandaids and Lee bring a ladder. We'llleave our leather gloves and pants home!!!·your escort service 
----------~--------~~~ 

Tuesday, March 8, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Young tennis team falls to tough Big Ten foes 
By FRANK PASTOR Four matches in to what "We have found that we are The Irish progressively im­defeated Kristen Ashare 5-7,6­Sports Writer amounts to a ten-match road a team and that we can pull proved as the weekend wore on, 4,6-1 in the number five posi­spin, the Irish are beginning to together as a team, " said and the outcome of the Mic­tion. 
There is no substitute for ex­show the effects of a lack of Gelfman. "We are very young, higan match remained un­In doubles competition, perience. Unfortunately for the upperclassmen. The freshman­and this will prove very impor­decided until the final match of Cahill and Dasso combined to young Notre Dame women's and sophomore-dominated tant on down the road." the day. Notre Dame managed beat Michigan's Stacy Berg tennis team, this adage is be­team, although rich in talent Against Ohio State (4-3), the to take three singles victories and Basle 6-1,6-3. coming more convincing every and strong at heart, lacks the Irish grabbed two singles in addition to the number one Regardless of the outcome, day. experience common to many of matches but were shut out in doubles match against the Wol­Gelfman was quite pleased 
After dropping both of their its NCAA Division I competi­doubles competition. At the verines (7-3). with the team's performance. matches this past weekend, 2-7 tors. Nonetheless, Irish coach number one singles position, At number one singles, Cahill "We played our hearts out, " to Ohio State, and 4-5 to Mic­Michelle Gelfman believes that CeCe Cahill defeated the Buck­edged Tina Basle 2-6, 7-6(7-4) ,6-said the Irish coach. "We were higan, the Irish netters (5-8) the team's demanding eyes' Lisa McFarlan 6-1, 6-0, 3. Kim Pacella trounced Leslie simply beaten by a team which continue to struggle in previ­schedule will prove beneficial and Michelle Dasso beat Mackey 6-4,6-0 at number four happened to be better than us ously untested waters. in the long run. Yvonne Lohrer 6-2, 6-2. singles, and Natalie Illig on that given day." 
Sacramento Kings relieve Russell of coaching duties 
Associated Press year contract with the team, Sacramento, former team agreed it was time for a "Every time we lost a game, was transferred to the Kings' president Joe Axelson. change. it was a real hard kick in the front office, where he will serve When Russell was named co­Russell said he told Luken­stomach," Russell said,
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -Bill 
Russell was relieved of his as vice president in charge of ach of the Kings last year, it bill, " ... I think I made a mis­flanked by Reynolds and coaching duties with the basketball operations, said was with the understanding he take when I came here (as co­Lukenbill at an Arco Arena Sacramento Kings Monday and Gregg Lukenbill, general would be on the bench for 2-4 ach)." news conference. "I don't sleep replaced by assistant coach managing partner and part years and then move to the after we lose and, you know, Jerry Reynolds, a move aimed owner of the club. front office. The 17-41 Kings have the I've had a lot of sleepless 
The action was part of a fourth worst record in the NBA, nights," he added, his voiceat "changing the direction of 
this club," the team's owner­shakeup of the team's top man­But Russell said Monday, ahead of only the Golden State quivering and his eyes appear­ship announced. agement which also resulted in Lukenbill initiated the change. Warriors, the New Jersey Nets ing moist. "The losses -1 a reduced title for the man who Russell said the two discussed and the Los Angeles Clippers, haven't been able to handle 
Russell, 54, who has a seven-brought Russell to the problems with the team and and tied with the Phoenix Suns. that." 

O
This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound® to 
the beach, the mountains or your hometown. 

~____;;;......For $49.50 each way, you and your friends 
~~eh!h~~ ~~~at. GO GREYI:f()UNIJ. 
Eao.:h way haS<-d on round-lrip purchase. 
go Greyhound. \~~ And leave the driVIng to us. 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 

Musl presem a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., Trailways Lines and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Fare is each way per person based on round-trip purchase. Offer eff~tive 2/15/88 through 4125/88. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. Greyhound also offers an unlimited mileage fare for $59.00 each way. Some restrictions apply. It> 1988 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
NCAA 
continued from page 76 
Hardin-Simmons was led by Vince Langston's 18 points. Tyrone Muldow threw in 16 and Eric Adams 15 for the now 18-11 Cowboys. 
"I thougt we were capable of playing better than that," Cow­boy head coach Dick Dangford said, "but Notre Dame really beat us. We're only partially re­sponsible for the way we played. We're not a good defen­sive team or rebounding team, and Notre Dame really put the defensive pressure on us. I'm pleased that Rivers didn't kill us, but the the two other guys destroyed us." 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
Paul Odland also lost in straight sets. 
Notre Dame was only down two matches to four going into doubles. Coach Bayliss still saw a chance for an upset. 
"We still had a chance going into doubles," said Bayliss. "But they were a little tougher than we were and they proved it at crunch time." 
The Irish lost all three doubles matches, two of them decided in the third set. 
Buckeye coach Willie Cakans and his squad improved their record to 8-0. The Irish are now 9-5. 
Overall, it has was a success­ful homestand for Notre Dame. The Irish hosted some of the best schools in the country and played well. The Irish have gained invaluable experience and strengthened their bench. The biggest problem they face as they go on the road is injur­ies. 
Coach Bayliss takes pride in his team's play given the string of injuries. 
"I would love to be able to field a completely healthy team," he said. "Unfor­tunately we haven't had one in over a month." 
The Irish have had to deal with a variety of ailments, in­cluding the flu, groin pulls and foot injuries. The squad's lack of stamina showed against Ohio State, although Notre Dame still played well. 

---------~~~~~----------------------------------------------------------~ 
-----~~-----~--­
Tuesday, March 8, 1988

page 12 The Observer 

I I i I I I I I I t 
Applications are available for all 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT CABINET POSITIONS: 
Student Life: 

Executive Coordinator  Student Services  
Campus Improvements  Athletics  
Food & Health  ~ousing .11 Security  
SUB Liaison  Halt Pres./Hall Council Liaison  
JudiciaVLegal Liaison  
Political, Social, &  Cultural Concerns:  
Executive Coordinator  Political Awareness Com.  
Social Concerns Com.  Cultural Events Com.  
Minority Concerns Com.  Women's Concerns Com.  
Intellectual Life Com.  Liturgical Commissioner  

Academics: Executive Coordinator Academic Commissioner Student Faculty Relations Student Faculty Senate Rep. 
Special Projects: Executive Coordinator Freshmen Orientation Board of T1 ustees Business Consultant 
• 
Applications are available in the Student Government offices. 

• 
Applications are due Wednesday, March 23rd, by 5 p.m. 

• 
Interviews will be held March 26th-27th, in the Student Government offices. You will be contacted regarding the time of your interview. 

• 
All students welcome. 





~~----------------------------------------------------------­

-------------------------------------~ 

Tuesday, March 8, 1988 The Observer page 13 
•

Volleyball team gets cold but WinS two 
Top teams hang on as NCAA tournament approaches 
The Men's Volleyball Club ran into an ice storm we had played that way Thursday, it would have on the way to Ohio State last week, and then found been a better match against Ohio State. We reallyitself ice cold when it finally arrived. dominated Ohio Dominican."
--------------------------====­
The Irish found themselves in the middle of a storm that paralyzed parts of the Midwest last Thursday, and the ride lasted more than six hours. The 11th-ranked Buckeyes then don wed the tired 
Irish 15-4, 15-6, 15-6. 
"We just did not show up," Irish coach Bill An­derson said. "It was a long ride. That had something to do with it. We just couldn't get it going." 
Notre Dame bounced back to defeat Ohio Dominican Friday night 15-5, 15-4, 16-14. Anderson said the Irish looked like a different team Friday. 
"We played extremely well," Anderson said. "If 
Associated Press 
For the fifth consecutive week, Temple remained atop the Associated Press college basketball poll Monday, while Purdue, Arizona and Okla­homa held on to the No. 2 through 4 places for the same period. 
Temple, 27-1, has advanced to the semifinals of the Atlantic 10 tournament and a victory in that could assure the Owls of a 
................. 

appy Birthday 
Danny! 
om & Dad 
*************** 
STANIIY H. KAPLAN IDU<ATIONAL aNTIR lTD. students score higher! 
OTHER COURSES: MCAT. OAT, NCLEX, NTE, CPA, BAR REVIEW, & OTHERS 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
LSAT CLASS STARTS SOON!! 
No. 1 seeding in the NCAA tournament when the pairings are announced on Sunday. 
Purdue, 26-2, has already clinched a berth in the NCAA as champions of the Big Ten. The Boilermakers won the title on Saturday with an 80-67 vic­tory over No. 10 Michigan. 
Arizona, 28-2, clinched the Pacific 10 regular-season title quite a while ago and the Wildcats are assured a bid even if don't win the conference 
NOTRE 
DAME 
WHAT IF YOU DON'T GET INTO THE GRAD 
SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesof being admitted into their first·choice schools. Fact is, no one has helped 

Greg ~ Guffey ""' . 
Club Corner 
The effects of the road trip began to show Sunday when the squad made the trip to Michigan State. The Irish won 15-3, 15-3, 13-15, 15-12, but Anderson could notice that the team appeared worn out. 
tournament. Oklahoma, 27-3, had already won the Big Eight regular-season title before losing to Missouri 93-90 in over­time last week and the Sooners should be in the same spot as Arizona as far as a bid is con­cerned. 
Temple received 42 first­place votes and 1,232 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters, while Purdue was first on 17 ballots and had 
,205 points. 
Arizona was the only other 
to receive first-place 
as the Wildcats got four 

F~~~~~~~~~~~~~s:!lis:!li'S31~~~oo~~'SJI Princeton. 
BUS TRIP TO THE ART INSTITUTE 
AND 

MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART IN CHICAGO 
Sponsored by the Department of Art, Art History and Design, and the Office of the College Fellow. 
WHEN: Tuesday, March 22, 9:00AM to 7:00PM. WHERE: Two buses will leave from in front of the CCE at 9:00 AM and arrive back at Notre Dame at approximately 7:00 PM. COST: $8.00. TICKETS FOR THE TRIP may be purchased in Room 129 O'Shag, on Tuesday and Thursday from 8:00 to 4:30, and Wednesday and Friday from 8:00 to 12:00 noon. 
For more information call ext. 7602. 
~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~over.However,theduoofTodd
I. Griffee and Ted Fay quickly 


Gull ott: 
Happy 21st Birthday to Our 
Favorite wine! 

and 1,148 points, while the Sooners had 1,019 points. 
Pittsburgh, the Big East regular-season champion, jumped from seventh to fifth, the same improvement made by Kentucky, the top seed of the Southeastern Conference tournament. 
Pittsburgh, 22-5, rec~ived 924 points after beating then-No. 12 Syracuse in the Carrier Dome for its first conference title. The Panthers had lost their previous game to Seton Hall and needed the victory for the No.1 seeding in the conference tournament. 
Kentucky beat Georgia and stifled these worries as well as the competition in finishing a stong third and fourth, respec­tively. In doing so, both Griffee (8-6) and Fay (9-5) picked up tickets to the NCAAs. 
"THE REASON curporate execu­tives give millions of dollars to, say, a politically engaged arts organization is that they get sub­lime pleasure from hearing a person who enjoys two hundred sexual partners a year tell them how greedy the 
For a free copy uf the l'Urrcnt•s.~uc of Nauonal
are." 
Revtew write h> Dq>l H-10. 150 f.aSI Hth Street New York. N.Y . 
.._______.1001~ 

"The trip caught up to us in the end," Anderson said. "We're starting to get a little bit tired." The victory over the Spartans left the Irish at 19-5 for the season. 
There is, however, no time for rest as Notre Dame leaves for a west coast trip next week. Anderson has a week of plans for the Irish that range from matches against San Diego State and Chapman Col­lege to a trip to Disneyland. 
"I didn't want to play a lot of matches because we played so many before spring break," Anderson said. "I personally hope to learn a lot and I want the guys to learn as well. We're going to concentrate on some things we need to work on and prepare for the MIVA Club Regional in April." 
Though the epee and sabre weapons only offered four spots apiece to fencers at the Mid­west Regionals, once again, the Irish men provided a strong performance. The lone sabre competitor for the Irish this weekend was sophomore Danny Yu. Despite the pres­sure to place & second sabremen into the NCAA Championships with Nowosielski, Yu established his right to one of the spots in finishing second with a 10-4 tal­ly. 
The epee weapon was a soft spot which Coach DeCicco had earlier expressed concern Mississippi last week to im­prove its record to 22-5 and received 886 points, 66 more than Nevada-Las Vegas which had been No. 5. 
The Runnin' Rebels, 26-4, lost their third home game of the season last week when they fell to Long Beach State 79-77. 
Fencers 
continued from page 16 
' 1They will probably be the number-two seed in the Mid­west region, and possibly in the U.S." 
Wayne State will most likely be the top seed, while other stiff . competition can undoubtedly be expected of teams from Penn and possibly Columbia, Temple and Penn State. 
The biggest surprise for the men was definitely the perfor­mance of freshman Phil Leary in the foil weapon. Leary was only a touch away from deafeating eventual first-place finisher Kiel of Wayne State before settling for second with an 11-3 record. Also qualifying as expected was senior captain Yehuda Kovacs who, despite his 12-2 mark, placed third after falling to teammate Leary in his first bout. Kovacs and Leary will constitute a solid foil team for the Irish at 


page 14 The Observer Tuesday, March 8, 1988 
r 
t 
The Observer I David Fischer
*

The 1988 indoor track season came to a close over the weekend with the IC4A Championships. Joe Plane's Irish team fared well at the meet, highlighted by the third-place finish by the distance medley relay team. Mike Sullivan has the story below. 
Indoor track finishes with IC4A's 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 

Eleven Irish athletes representing the men's track team traveled to Princeton University to compete in the IC4A Championships this past weekend. 
The meet, which consisted of 121 teams, marked the end of the indoor season for the Irish, yet the season did not end with­out several of the Irish turning in fine performances. 
Junior Ron Markezich, ran strong in the 5000 meter race, placing fourth with a time of 
14:20. The distance medley team, consisting of sophomore Mike Rogan, freshman Robert Harris, sophomore Mike O'Connor and senior co-captain 
NOTICE: SCHEDULE CHANGE (Due to Dan Ryan· Reconstruction) Although our Bus Departure times remain unchanged, we are estimating arrival times at O'Hare to be up to 30 minutes later than our standard. Please allow 1 hour from our revised ar­rival time before you.r flight time. Allowing 
less time may cause you to miss your flight. RE: RESERVATIONS 
Please make reservations now. We will not limit reservations, but we may not be able to serve anyone without 24 hour ad­vance reservations. Please call your travel agent or UNITED LIMO at 674-6993 or 255-3608. 
Dan Garrett, ended the season where it has been most of the year --near the top. The Irish team placed third in the meet, running a time of 9: 57. Harris did a "very good job" in his leg of the relay, the 400 meters, ac­cording to Irish head coach Joe Piane. Harris was clocked at 48.9. 
The meet, as expected, was very tight at the top. Geor­getown placed first, followed closely by George Mason and Penn State. Roughly twenty points separated the three teams, as the official results of the meet have yet to be pub­lished. The Irish finished ''wit­hin the top fifteen," according to Piane. "Considering that there were 121 schools, our finish was very credible." 

Among the other athletes performing well for the Irish were freshmen jumpers Jeff Smith and John Cole. Both reached the finals of their respective events --Smith in the long jump and Cole in the high jump. Smith placed eighth with a leap of 23 feet 5 inches. Cole's jump measured 6 feet 9 12 inches. Sophomore Glenn Watson also reached the finals of his event, the 55 meter high hurdles, with a time of 7:49. 
The future of the track team looks bright: all eleven of this year's IC4A participants will be returning next year. Right now, though, Piane is gearing his team for the upcoming out­door season, which begins with the Notre Dame Invitational on March 26. 
Hoosier defense sweeps two from Irish 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Indiana handed the Notre Dame baseball team two more losses last weekend, sweeping the Irish 10-1 and 7-4 in a Sun­day doubleheader. 
But first-year Irish coach Pat Murphy still has much faith in his 1-5 squad. 
"We're disappointed to be 1­5, but I added these early games for a specific reason,'' said Murphy. "I wanted us to play the best and see how we played. I don't believe you get better by playing weaker teams. 
"I just hope we continue to improve," continued Murphy. "I'm not worried about our record." 
The Notre Dame hitting at­tack, which had been a bright spot in the season-opening games with Duke and Wake Forest, was quieted by the Hoosiers. 
Indiana's Eric Jaques hurled a two-hitter in the first of the two seven-inning games. In the second game, the Irish scored three runs in the first inning, but only scored once more for the remainder of the game. 
The Irish pitching fared somewhat better than it had against Duke and Wake Forest, but the Hoosiers still touched Notre Dame for 17 runs in just 14 innings of play. 
"Lots of people are down on our pitching staff, but our pitching staff is just inexperi­enced and facing good hitting teams," said Murphy. "In­diana won 43 games last year, and Wake Forest is one of the best hitting teams in the country." 
Notre Dame now is prepar­ing for a trip to Texas over Spring Break. The Irish will play nine games in Kerriville, Austin and San Antonio. 

oe''"ert 
THBYELLOW 
SUBMARIN:E 
''Nicest Buns In Town" 
HAM SALAMI CORNED BEEF PEPPERONI VEGETARIAN MEATBALL 
TURKEY · TUNA SALAD FRENOIDIP OIICKEN SALAD PIZZA ANDSPEOALS PASTRAMI PEPPERONI-MEATBALL ASSORTED CUTS 
The Italian -Ham, Salami, Pepperoni Cub Combo -Roast Beef, Ham, Turkey Super Combo -Ham, Salami, Honey Loaf 
ALL ON WHin: OR WHOLEWHEAT BUNS BAKED FRESH ntE DAY YOU £AT TiiEM WITH NO PRESERVATIVES 

---SEASONED TO PLEASE YOUil TASTE--­
LETI'UCE, ONION, TOMATO, ITAUAN DRESSING, MAYONAISE. YEllOW AND BROWN MUSTARD, AND YOUR CHOICE OF CHEEZE-MOZZARELLA. SWISS, AMERICAN, OR PROVOLONE 
ALSO AVAILABLE AT NO EXTRA OlARCE PICKLES, BLACK OUVES. SALT, PEPPER. JALAPENO AND BANANA PEPPERS, OREGANO, RED HarSAUCE FRESH SALAD-Try.Our New Super Salad 
DRINKS .55 • .65 -.75 -1.00 Pepsi, Diet. Mountain Dew, Teem, Dr. Pepper, Grape, Orange, Upper 10, Lemonade, Fruit Punch, Icc Tea, 
Root Beer 
WITH SERVICE THArS READY WHEN YOU ARE 
MONDAY-SATURDAY 10am-10pm SUNDAY 11am~pm 
AT PRICES YOU CAN TRUST 8" FootLong And 2' u~ to 6' $2.00-$2.99 $3.00 -$3.99 At special 5nces 
Come In -Or Call 272-HJKE 
We Deliver Within 3 Miles-$6.00 Minimum Order 
N 

-...._....-!h..I"A::BII.'o~ ;p.• 
18109 SR 23 -JUST WEST OF IRONWOD-272-4453 
The schedule for Notre Dame in Texas includes doubleheaders with Schreiner College and Texas Lutheran, two separate games with St. Mary's and single games with with St. Edward's, Incarnate Word and Ivy League school Cornell. 
"They're not household names as far as universities, but they're good programs that play good baseball," said Murphy. "I think we're ready to play. We'll be away, and that will mean three weeks in a row of traveling. But that's not an excuse. These kids don't want to make excuses, they want to play to win." 
Texas Lutheran, an NAIA school, is coming off a 23-17-1 season last year. St. Mary's participated in last year's NAIA playoffs with a 36-12 record. Cornell posted a 17-27 record last season. 

Tuesday, March 8, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Campus 
Tuesday 
12 p.m.: Brown Bag Seminar, Kellogg Institute and the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, "Women and the Theology of Liberation," by Ana Maria Bidegain, Center for Internation Studies, Duke University, Room 131 Decio. 3:30p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Compilation, Correlation and Prediction of Thermodynamic, Physical and Transport Properties," by Pro­fessor Thomas Daubert, Penn State University, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 4 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Peacemaker Series Lecture, John Ryan, Bradley University, on sacrificing his FBI career on a matter of conscience. Room 121 Law School. 7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "The Wind is Driving Him Toward the Open Sea," 1968, 52 minutes, directed by David Brooks, Annen­berg Auditorium. 8:15p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre spring Film Series, "La Dolce Vita," 1961, &W, 180 minutes, directed by Federico Fellini, Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Italian Beef Sandwich  Roast Beef w/ au jus  
Beef Fried Rice  Shrimp Jambalaya  
Roasted Turkey  Chicken Chimichanga  
Baked Noodle Casserole  Deli Bar  

£"Ef: vltK DRI~K 


~t-.t 
.. Don't drink and 
5tt DIC.I( 
a t¥'D

D(IV£ drive
!Sfr t>'C"' ~ 

Comics 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Deadly 6 Major or Minor 
10 -smasher 14 Soap plant 15 Baseball team 16 Baseball team 17 Reader's card 18 Hair feature 19 Stone & Iron 20 Become 
clogged 22 Gather 24 Holds 25 Heartbeat 27 In a likely 
manner 29 Of great range 33 Paddock figure 34 Understand 35 St. -'s fire 36 Bribe 37 Position 40 Shreds 42 Mechanizes 43 Economize 
severely • 44 Chewed ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
03/08/88

45 Stringed All Rights Reserved Instrument 46 Oolong 4 Slanted 47 Lampreys 5 Ease 48 Graf -6 Ref 49 Salad plant 7 Raises the 51 Begged like front legs Fldo 8 "Sesame -" 53 Tried for 9 Sleuth's dog office 10 Literary 54 Biblical verb collection 56 Arises 11 Makes more 61 Maxwell or tense Lanchester 12 Ryan or Tatum 63 Flat hill 13 Sloppy 65 Unfettered 21 Cans 66 Disparagement 23 Ravioli e.g. 67 Burden 26 Airplane 68 Films' Burstyn maneuver 69 Sort 28 Wisdom 70 Agts. segments 71 Wilhelm's 29 Some doctors 42 Certain paint 55 Cupid exile town 30 Gulnness 44 Assails 57 Mallet game 31 Gets wiser 47 Ancient 58 Lone DOWN 32 Conservatives ascetic 59 Addict 1 A Domino 37 Frames 49 Wave top 60 Quaker 2 Amo, 38 Pretty 50 Acquire fresh William amas, -39 Fleuret vigor 62 Exist 3 Corrlda beast 41 Hit hard 52 Moved a raft 64 Stupid one 
The Far Side 



l 
Gary Larson
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
IT? 

/ 
• 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 


...... 

Sports
page 16 Tuesday, March 8, 1988 
over Cowboys 

Voce, Rivers lead in farewell game 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN against a smaller Cowboy sive glass in the half and led Sports Editor squad, the two shot a combined 47-31 at the break. 21-for-29 from the floor to lead Notre Dame exploded out of 
Hardin-Simmons probably Notre Dame to a .603 shooting the blocks in the second half, thought jt left all the cyclones percentage (44-of-73) for the going on a 12-4 tear and hitting home at Abilene, Texas. Then game. their first eight shots. Robinson the Cowboys came to South "I knew I was able to post up hit two in the stretch, a jumperBend and got thundered. and score," Robinson, who also from the free throw line and on 
Notre Dame raged like a had nine rebounds, said. "I an inside feed from Rivers. summer storm with all the ap­knew I had the open shot." Voce was hitting from out­propriate thunder and lightn­"We've been trying to get side and inside. He had the ing in blowing past that going for a couple of hook shot going as well as the Hardin-Simmons 100-71. games," Voce said of the inside outside jumper, scoring six-of­
The thunder was supplied by play. "We've got it going at the eight Notre Dame points at one the inside game of Gary Voce right time now." stretch. and Keith Robinson. Both The Irish got it going quickly "!think we palyed very, very scored career highs in the in the first half with most of the well for our last home game,"game--Voce with 24 and Robin­attention on Rivers. He got his Irish head coach Digger Phelps son with 21. The lighting came first points at the foul line with said as his team rose to 19-8. from David Rivers, who blitzed 13:48 to play in the first half. "We were in a positive state of the Cowboys for 22 points--none His next pair also came from mind, and I think we've been so special as the driving the line at 12:02. Rivers first playing our best this week. I jumper he hit at 6:35 for the field goal came at 10:39 when think what we're trying to do 2,000th career point. he hit a jumper in the paint. is get the ball inside to people
"I set goals to to reach," The next four trips down the and shoot form the perimeter­Rivers, who now has 2,014. court, the crowd roared for him -and I that's what we're doing. points--good for third palce on to shoot. When he hit the shot "For us, it's win number 19, the Irish career list--said of the that put him in the 2,000-point and hopefully Sunday it'll be 20 mark. "They mean a great deal club, the fans went crazy. and then on to the NCAA bid. I to me." Meanwhile Voce and Robin­think the kids smell it's out 
But what really got the Irish son were working the boards there."
Seniors David Rivers (pictured) and Gary Voce finished up the 
going was the play of the 6-9 and hitting inside. The Irish
regular home-season with a convincing 100-71 drowning of Hardin­
Robinson and 6-9 Voce. Playing and eight points off the offen-see NCAA, page 11
Simmons last night at the Joyce ACC. 
Fencers qualify for NCAAs 
" 
By CHRIS FILLIO 

will have seven qualifiers from 1 mark. She will most likely en­Sports Writer the Midwest region. The wo­ter the NCAA championships
Optimism is running high 
men are even more hard­as the number one Midwest these days around the Notre pressed in vying for a mere five seed based on her excellent 
Dame fencing circuits. Follow­qualifying spots. performance this pasting solid performances by both Notre Dame's fencers weekend. the men's and women's teams proved themselves to have Senior captain Molly Sul­
at this past weekend's NCAA more than just the luck of the livan posted a 10-3 record,
Midwest Regionals, the Irish 
Irish in qualifying seven fen­finishing third in her first ac­will now begin two weeks of cers for the nationals. In both tion following Europeantraining for the NCAA cham­the men's epee and sabre divi­competition. Junior Kristin pionships upcoming later this sions, the entire field of Mid­Kralicek received an alternate month in Princeton, N.J. west fencers were essentially position in placing seventh 


"It might be said that things fighting for only four spots overall. Irish junior Brenda went even better than I ex­since two positions in each Leiser just missed placing in 
pected," said Irish coach Mi­
weapon had already been the top ten with an eleventh­chael DeCicco. claimed by previously named place finish. 
The Observer I David Fischer

Nevertheless, DeCicco en­qualifiers. 
DeCicco asserted that re­
tered the Midwest Regional Freshman Lesek 
ceiving two of the five spots in Brian Kalbas and the Irish men's tennis team shut out the Marquette 
somewhat concerned over the
• Nowosielski was the sole Irish women's foil was a big plus for Warriors 9-0 In weekend action, then lost to the Buckeyes of Ohio
fact that a small number of fencer to enjoy the weekend off the Irish. 
State 7-2. George Travers details the last matches of a long homes­
spots are allocated by the after being named an NCAA 
"I have no fear that we have 
land below.
NCAA for qualifiers from the qualifier earlier last week. one of the top three teams in Midwest. Only six positions are Junior Anne Barreda set the women's foil," said DeCicco. 
Irish tennis slams MU, 


designated in the men's epee tone for the Irish women in win­and sabre weapons while foil ning the women's foil with a 12-see FENCERS, page 13 
Stanford topples Stanford in IH final 
By CHRIS PAULISON ten from the charity stripe. Martin, who finished with Sports Writer Point guard Dan Nieder­thirteen. Martin's total is meyer was able to overcome most impressive, as his en­The final episode of the foul trouble, adding nine tire tally came from the men's Interhall basketball points to his game-high total free-throw line. Stanford A-family feud aired last night, of twenty-five in this final 1's frontcourt also and the survey said ... Stan­period. contributed a solid perfor­ford A-1, 62, Stanford A-2, 54. Neidermeyer, a key mem­mance. Senior Bill Sullivan Stanford A-2 forced last ber on last year's Stanford and sophomore John Wassil night's deciding game after team that dropped both controlled the boards at both 
swingman Chris Perozek games in the championship, ends of the court. nailed an eighteen foot buz­explained why the crown Stanford A-2 provided ex­zer shot Sunday night. would not slip away this citement with a fast-break 
But last night, Stanford A-time. offense fueled by
1 emerged the superior, "We expected them to sharpshooter Ray Flan­jumping to a first quarter come out in a man-to-man nery's twenty-two points and lead they never relin­defense Sunday. Flustered junior John Schindler's ten quished. Upset-minded by their zone set-up, we point contribution. Stanford A-2 closed the gap forced shots we should not Although the champion­to two points behind the hot have attempted. Tonight we ship will remain in the hands three-point shooting of Ray demonstrated a more pa­of Stanford A-1 for at least
...... 
Flannery late in the third tient offense, and for­a year, these two teams will quarter . The fourth quarter, tunately those sixteen undoubtily meet each other however, belonged soley to footers began falling." in numerous rematches Stanford A-1. Senior guard Niedermeyer was joined either at the Rock or the AI Martin chipped in nine of in double-digit scoring by courts at Stepan. 
falls to Ohio State 
By GEORGE TRAVERS and Tim Carey 6-3, 6-3. Other Sports Writer Irish doubles winners were Kalbas paired with Wenger and 
It was an up and down Odland teaming with 
weekend for the Notre Dame Kuhlman. The Warriors fell to men's tennis team. The Irish 4-4. concluded a thirteen-match A different scenario homestand by defeating Mar­developed at the Eck Pavilion 
quette 9-0, but then lost to Ohio on Saturday as Notre Dame State 7-2. 
hosted undefeated Ohio State 

Coach Bayliss had hoped to University. The Buckeyes are win both matches and hit the one of the top tennis teams in road on a hot streak. The Irish the country and came to Notre started off right on Friday by Dame heavy favorites. The 
crushing the Warriors 9-0. Mar­Irish were unable to pull off the quette failed to win a set in upset. Ohio State won 7-2, al­singles or doubles play. though many of the matches Brian Kalbas continued to went three sets. 
play phenomenally by soundly beating Marquette's Dmitry In singles, the only Irish win­Shklyar 6-2, 6-0 in number one ners were Kalbas and Wenger. 
singles. Other Irish singles win­Captain Dan Walsh saw his ners were Ryan Wenger, Dan season-long winning streak Walsh, Dave Reiter, Paul vanish as he lost to Ulf Hartwig Daggs and David Kuhlman. 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. Sophomore Mike 
In doubles action Notre Wallace lost to OSU's Steve Dame's Mike Wallace and Ar­Miguel6-3, 6-3. Dave Reiter and nel Gallanosa rolled over the Marquette tandem of Shklyar see TENNIS, page 11 



