-------------------------------------------~-----~----~---~--------------~~-----------------, 
IACCENT: Are you a "teleholic?" .I ~0°: 0.~ 
Frosty's in town 
_ I"a • • Cloudy and cold today with a 00 40 percent chance of light 
~IEWPOINT: T~ying to be No.1 o~f the field ~:0~~~_:~n~i~~~·i;;~~~~~~y~~d~~~:~~~~:~n-oon_j.
I I 0 


WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1988VOL. XXII, NO. 60 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Trespassers at ND apprehended 
By KELLEY TUTHILL other two were at the bus shel­Staff Reporter ter near the post office in a ve­hicle, said Johnson. 
Four "peeping Tom's" were apprehended early Tuesday One adult was arrested for morning by Campus Security. trespassing, two of the youths 
Phillip Johnson, assistant were turned over to Park View 1 director of security, said that Juvenile Center, and the fourth at 2:30 a.m: residents of person was released to his par­l Howard Hall reported four ent or guardian, said Johnson. 
1
young men who were looking Iinto their room to the hall se­Johnson said that all the men curity monitor. were charged with trespassing 1 
and one man was taken to St. 
The security monitor then Joseph County Jail. immediately notified the main "The credit here must go to security office by radio, said the resident$ of Howard Hall Johnson. The men left the area for quickly reporting the inci­as the security officer arrived. dent. I encourage all students 
to report any suspicious behav­
Johnson said that the officer ior on campus immediately to 
was able to obtain descriptions security," said Johnson. 
of the men before leaving 

The Observer I Scott McCann Howard Hall. Investigators are lookinl'!
UNICEF sale 
into the possibility that this in­Two men were found near St. cident is related to other recent 

Kathy McDonough looks through the booklets at the mugs, stationary and puzzles. Their goal is to raise 
Michael's laundry and the campus crimes, said Johnson. 

UNICEF sale in the library. The sale includes cards, $5,000 during the two week sale. 
Construction site explosion kills six, creates large craters 
Associated Press dynamite explode more even­6 or 7 feet deep, and a smaller homes. One merchant. Stan guards at the site had called ly, authorities said. The second one about 15 feet across and 4 Katz, said looters took items them when they noticed a 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.--Con­trailer was storing about 15,000 feet deep. from his Food City Warehouse pickup truck on fire, Knabe struction trailers loaded with pounds of the material. A third "The remains of one fire supermarket, where several said. 45,000 pounds of a chemical explosion occurred moments truck is sitting very close to one large windows were shattered. used in dynamite exploded later in what was believed to crater," said Fire Department Investigators believe the Tuesday, killing six be a portion of the first trailer spokesman Harold Knabe. A woman at a motel about fires might have been inten­firefighters, ripping large that had been blown apart. "There is another vehicle of three-quarters of a mile away tionally set, Knabe said. craters in the ground and shat­Debris was scattered over some sort, a large red truck. said the force knocked her from tering windows up to 10 miles several acres around the con­The other fire truck-there .is her bed to the floor. Security guards reported away. struction site and onto nearby absolutely no evidence that it seeing someone and went to in­
The first trailer was filled U.S. 71, said police spokesman was ever there." Firefighters were already at vestigate, Knabe said. When with an estimated 30,000 Sgt. Greg Mills. Windows, some of them large the construction site when the they returned, they found one pounds of ammonium nitrate, The blasts left two very large plate-glass panels, were bro­explosions rocked the area of their pickup trucks burning, which is used to make craters, 30 to 40 feet wide and ken in scores of businesses and about 4 a.m. Two security and called firemen. 
Malloy dedicates new homeless shelter 
By JIM WINKLER staff it as well. URC has ap­teerism and dedication to the Staff Reporter pointed Father Stephen New­Center "serves as an act of ton to manage the 24-hour, charity, love and justice, one 
South Bend's new Center for seven-days-a-week facility. of need and reciprocal return." the Homeless, located in the old At the Center 100 beds are Malloy concluded by saying Gilbert's building on South available for single men and that he was proud that Notre Michigan Avenue, was for­women and for families. In ad­Dame had played a part in "the mally dedicated in a ceremony dition, the Center will provide human effort that brought us yesterday that featured Uni­professional counseling in fif­here." He expressed hope that versity President Father Ed­teen disciplines, including alco­Notre Dame would always be ward Malloy as the keynote hol counseling, job training, there to share the volunteer speaker. pregnancy counseling and load. 
The University purchased housing referral. These ser­the building last summer and vices will be offered by local In addition to Malloy, two renovated the 38,000-square social work agencies. others associated with the Uni­foot former department store. At the dedication, Father versity spok~ at the dedication. Much of the work was done by Malloy compared those in the David Link, the dean of the volunteers from the student audience to those who weren't Notre Dame Law School, is the body, staff, and faculty, and there: the homeless who will president of COPOSH. He ex­cost approximately $400,000. use the shelter when it opens pressed his gratitude for all The Center will be leased by its doors on December 1. "Most those who had helped bring the Notre Dame to the Council of of us have never been down on idea of a Center into reality. Providers of Services to the our luck such that we couldn't Link pointed out that this is Homeless (COPOSH) which get shelter. We have always only a temporary solution and 

AP Photo

originally had planned on pur­been able to come up with the that South Bend still needed to Arafat denied entry 
chasing the facility. money or credit card, or solve the problem of homeless­
1

COPOSH has turned the re­recognition that allows us to ness. Link emphasized the PLO Chairman Vasser Arafat adjusts his glasses as he addresses the sponsibility of operation and find a decent place to sleep at value of volunteering. "We c.an United Nations 29th General Assembly in 1974. Arafat's request for a maintenance over to the United night, but we are only a sick­teach our students more about visa to address the U.N. session on Dec. 1 was rejected, and Jordan Religios Community (URC) ness away, one job away, from social justice in one night at the announced Sunday it has agreed with Egypt to seek to move the session 
/ which will raise money to the people who will be here," to Geneva so Arafat can address the world body on the Palestinian finance the Center and will Malloy said. He said the volun-see SHELTEA, page 6 problem. 
page 2 
IN BRIEF 
Beverly Hills city planners are prescribing a face lift in the city where image is everything_ They're recom­mending "designer" sidewalks, flower planters and novel street lamps to counter fears that cracked sidewalks and traffic-clogged streets will send shoppers elsewhere. The entire revitalization plan for the 30-block business district could run $80 million. -Associated Press 
How about a bridgefor a Christmas present for the person who has everything? The Colorado Highway De­partment has honest-to-goodness historic bridges avail­able to anyone who will give them good homes and will haul them away. Bridges in the 3-year-old "Adopt-A­Bridge" program are scheduled for replacement because they are deteriorating or impractical for modern traffic.­Associated Press 
In Los Angeles with the New Age Telephone Book, you can reach waaaaaaaay out and touch someone. The directory lists psychics, healers, numerologists, gurus, channelers, ghost hunters and almost anyone else. who may appeal to followers of New Age philosophies. A real estate agent, for instance, offers clients "your own place in the universe." A "gentle dentist" promises free wine and stereo headphones. A medical clinic tells AIDS patients that their best years are yet to come. "We want to be the book that you pick up first if you have this particular consciousness," said managing editor Caryn Goldberg. "After all, the Pacific Bell Yellow Pages doesn't exactly have a category for rebirthers." The New Age Telephone Book, put together earlier this year, enters its next life soon with a second edition.-Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
"Simon" auditions: today is the last day to audition for the February 22-25 production of the musical. Bring prepared song and monologue to Washington Hall between 6-9:30 p.m. Questions call Rob Meffe X3660. -The Observer 
Grace Hall Debate Championship will begin today 
at 9 p.m. in the courtroom of the Law School. The topic: 
''The only business of business should be to make a profit.'' 
-The Observer 
Irish Insanity will meet to discuss the Indiana game 
today at 8 p.m. in the Dooley Room, 1st floor LaFortune 
Student Center. -The Observer 
An African Lunch will be served tomorrow at the 
Center for Social Concerns from 11:30-1:30 p.m. -The Ob­
server 

A Networking Workshop will be offered today at 7:00p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge by Dell Lucas, career counselor of the Career and Placement Services office. Lucas will explore seven proven methods to make contacts and locate professional job opportunities. Stu­dents of all majors and classes are invited to attend. This presentation will be repeated tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge_ -The Observer 
Sidewalk Counselor meeting will be held today at 

7:30 p.m. in Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service 
announcements may be submitted at The Observer main 

office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 
1 p.m. prior to the date olf publication. Of Interest an­
nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­
ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers_ 

Campus announces other events of general interest, free 
or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­
mitted materials and determine if and where announce­
ments will be published. -The Observer 


Deaign Editor . . Alison Cocks Accent Editor . . Robyn Simmons Design Asaistant Kathy Gliwa Accent Copy Editor .......... Matt Murphy Typesetters.. Mike Kolar Accent Designer . . . .. . . ... . . . . ... Jim Barret 
...................... Mark Derwent Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Val Poletto News Editor..... Colleen Cronin .................... .. ........Sur Barton Copy Editor . . Missy Weber ND Day Editor ........ Sandy Roth Sports Copy Editor Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ....... Sarah Demet Viewpoint Copy Editor Cindy Broderick Photographer .... . .. ....... Scott McCann 
TM ~er (USPS ~99 2-<4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durilll exam and vacation periods. TM ~er is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscnpllons may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per semester) by writilll Tile ObeerYer, P .0. Bo• Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~S6. 
TM ~-is a member of TM Mlodi!IM rr-. All reproduction riahts are raervcd. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 30, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Thanksgiving was better with the Irish 
The Thanksgiving weekend many of us spent 
in southern California, our safe trip and the 
undefeated Irish show that we have much to be 
thankful for: Lou Holtz's Fighting Irish, com­
mercial pilots, bus drivers and sunshine in No­
vember. 
The 80 Saint Mary's students on the trip learned what United's Friendly Skies are all about last Wednesday. We missed our flights by three and a half hours because a tanker had crashed on the expressway, creating a 20-mile holiday traffic jam on the road to O'Hare. 
There were two planes to catch, and we had two moments of silence as each flew over our heads. WhPn we finally arrived, we sat in the bus for another hour and a half while United decided what to do with us. Their first plan was to get us on a plane at 1 p.m. Thanksgiving Day. But they told us to sit tight and they would see what could be done. 
Shortly afterward, they told us that they had added a flight to Los Angeles for us. To arrange the extra flight, the airline woke a pilot out of bed, pulled a flight crew together and stocked the plane with food and fuel. 
Not one employee we talked to could remem­ber adding a flight anywhere for any reason, especially on a holiday as busy as Thanksgiv­ing. 
They fed us, let us sing the Victory March as many times as we wanted. to and as loudly as we wanted to. They told us jokes, gave us blankets and pillows and woke us when we landed. The pilot came out to welcome us to Los Angeles and we were off. 
A flight attendant complimented our chaperone after we landed, saying that he had never been thanked by so many people in one day. He said, "Well, I guess you guys are America's best and brightest after all." 
Unfortunately, the agent from Great Ameri­can Travel got a different impression of our students when he stayed with us in the Anaheim Marriott. 
He was awake for 72 consecutive hours, answering calls about trouble being caused by students in the hotel. There were pizzas thrown into the swimming pools, a group of students emptied the sand from the ash trays in front of an elevator and urinated in it Saturday after the game. He also got a call at 3 a.m. because a young man was running nude through the halls wearing a green Notre Dame hat. 
His exact words on Sunday were, "Really im­pressive, guys," as he loaded the last bus of students onto the airport shuttle. He had a lot to be thankful for last weekend, too... mostly 
Sandy Cerimele 
Saint Mary's Editor 

when the students left. 
But the Irish won. The weather could not have been better for the game and once again, there was much to be thankful for. The Orange County Alumni Association hosted a huge tailgater with plenty of food and drinks outside the Coliseum that made everyone feel at home. 
We were thankful also for our bus driver, Gilberto Sanchez of Hot Dogger Tours, who drove us to the Coliseum on game day. We gave him a blue and gold pompon and he yelled "Go Irish!" as he switched lanes on the freeway, shaking it. He took the bus intercom and "warned" us when a car full of USC fans was approaching either side of the bus. He'd scream, "You ain't got no class" to the pas­sengers wearing crimson and gold and he refused to let any of those cars pass or cut in front of our bus on our way to the game. 
Most of us missed spending Turkey Day with our families but if we could have been anywhere else on Thanksgiving weekend, most of us would have been in vacationing California and watch­ing the Irish close out their regular season, un­defeated for the first time since 1973. 
.----------------------------.
Copies after five 
When you need copies after hour.;, depend on Kinko's, tl1e copy center. We're open late 
to seJVe you. 


kinko·s· 
the copy center 
18187 State Road 23 
271-0398 

.----~-------~~~------------­
Wednesday, November 30, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Garfinkel speaks on child support 

By KATHY RYAN Staff Reporter 

Irwin Garfinkel, professor of social work at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, gave a lecture last night titled, "Child Support Assurance: A New Ad­dition to our Social Security Menu." Garfinkel supports a social security program which has an assured benefit policy for children eligible for child support. 
Garfinkel discussed many problems of our current child support program on both the private and public levels. 
Private child support is cur­rently handled on state and local levels. ''The state statutes that governed child support left discretion to judges on the local level in the terms of setting of support and in terms of enforc­ing support," said Garfinkel. He feels judges have been too easy on offenders and are thus fostering and condoning the ir­responsibility of the non­custodial parents. 
The current public child sup­port policy, Aid to Families with Dependent Children 
(A.F.D.C.), was instituted in 1935 as part of the Social Secur­ity Act. Garfinkel stressed that the policy "reduced poverty of those who were in desperate circumstances, but the struc­ture of the program was inap­propriate to changing demographics and changing expectations around the role of women." 
Garfinkel promotes a system which supplements the child's family's income instead of sub­stituting for it as welfare does. He feels this money can be ob­tained by putting the responsi­bility on the parents and adding new laws which include a child's entitlement to a certain amount of money which Gar­finkel calls an assured benefit. This program would pay the difference between what the non-custodial parent pays and the set amount of income the government feels the child should receive. 
Garfinkel feels enforcing child support laws should help the poor and the money should not be redistributed into the middle and upper classes as it has been in the past through reduction of taxes. He es­timates that if seventy percent of what nonccustodial parents 
owed was collected and com­Teri Ward of East Chicago, Ind. holds Basia Rduch bined with the money that of Godow, Poland after the child arrived at O'Hare would be saved from the airport in Chicago late Monday night. She will be A.F.D.C., the Assured Benefit treated for severe birth defects free of charge. Ward Program could help half of 
those in need with no cost to the government. 
HPC discusses blood drive challenge
Garfinkel feels there is much 
to be done in establishing pater­By MAURA KRAUSE nity, the responsibility of the Staff Reporter non-custodial parent, and set­ting up strict guidelines for the Siegfried played host to the amount of money to be col­Hall Presidents Council for the lected. first time last night. 
Among the items covered 
Garfinkel is the third speaker was the challenge issued by in the series entitled ''The Year Notre Dame to West Virginia of the Child in Family Policy" for a blood drive contest. Exact which is sponsored by the dates and times to donate will AT&T Visiting Scholar Series be publicized. of the Institute for Scholarship Sally Derengoski, of Non­in the Liberal Arts, the Res­Varsity Athletics addressed burgh Program in Public Ser­the council concerning the Late vice and the departments of Night Olympics to be held Jan. economics and government. 27. Derengoski asked the HPC 
to "limit the number of sched­
uled activities and dorm
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday 
dances on that night. Dorms are paired in teams and one
thrqugh Observer advertising. 
dorm's SYR may 
_j 


The Educated Choice 
for Faculty and Full~ Time Staff... 
... 1ST SOURCE BANK'S EASY BANKING CLUB! 
1st Source Bank has the best and most unique direct deposit 
payroll program available. With our Easy Banking Club you get: 
IMMEDIATE VALUE 
• Free interest bearing checking account (with 200 free checks) or a Free savings account. 
EVERYDAY VALUE 
• 
Free Resource Card for easy available access to your money. 

• 
The safety and convenience of direct deposit of your paycheck. 


FUTURE VALUE 
• 
'h% discount on consumer loans. 

• 
Free appraisals on approved mortgages or home equity lines. 

• 
Free first trade at our 1st Class Brokerage Services ($35 maximum). 

• 
50% discount for the first year on safe deposit boxes. 

• 
Free Travelers checks. 


For more information call any 1stSource Banking Center. 
~source
-.aank 
Member F.D.I.C. Your partners from the first 
greatly 
L 
was responsible for raising donations for the child and mother's airfare and living expenses while in the U.S. 
hinder another dorm's partici­pation." 
Last year 1,500 participated in Late Night Olympics and raised $2,000 to give to charity. NVA "hopes to make this year even more successful. Saint Mary's will also be included in a more complete way (in the event)," said Derengoski. 
Also present to speak to the HPC was Cindy Petrites of Campus Wide Debates and John Hamill the Political Con­cerns Commissioner. Petrites and Hamill detailed the Iceberg Debates to be held early next semester. The debates are designed to "increase political and social awareness around campus and can be a great alternative to Monday night football for a few 
I
I 
weeks next semester," said Hamill. 
The Iceberg debates are set up as a "single elimination tournament with a consolation round so every team will debate twice. Topics will be an­nounced in advance, giving ample time for the teams to prepare," said Hamill. Each team of four members must have at least two members on it from the sponsoring dorm, with one of the other two mem­bers being of the opposite sex. A $50 entry fee is required to go towards the prizes--$500 for the winning hall and $250 for the runner up. The debates will run from the last week in Jan­uary through February and 

~ 
will not conflict with basketball games. ~ 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
Correction A photo on yesterday's front page was incorrectly identi­fied. The person should have been identified as Steve Dumbrowski.  
HELP FIGHT dpBIRTH DEFECTS  


1
, 
I 1 
I

25¢ off I 1 any cold sub ordered 1 I I I -DON'T FORGET lOTH INNING SPECIAL I 
1 EVERYDAY AFTER lOPM 7 INCH SUB, I
1

I CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4.25 I 
I 271-0 SUB II -1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE I \ I 



~--~------------' 

Cold Wednesday  



page 4 The Observer Wednesday, November 30, 1988 




Word ProcessinglOl. 
There is agrim reality of college life that you may or may not be acquainted with.1)rping. No, make that hours of typing. Precisely why you should consider aMacintosh'M computer. 
With programs like WriteNow and Microsoft Word, you can compose, edit, move paragraphs, and change type sizes and styles with one finger. Which can come in very handy. (Especially if that's t~e way you type.) Arid that's 
~ 
F
, 
r 
r 
just one example of how Macintosh helps students \vork smarter, quicker and more creatively The good news is, with Macintosh you don't have to know anything about computers to use one. The better news is, you don't have to kno\v any thing about white out, either. 
tl~The power to be your besf 
f 
Contputer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

©1987 Apple Compuler; Inc., Apple andthe Apple logo are registeredtrademarks of,andMacinlosh and The power /o heyour hesl are lrademarks ifApple Compuler.lnc. Micmm(l is a registered lmdemark of,cmd Wfmi is atrademark ifMicrosoji Corp. WnleMm· is a registeredlmdemark ojAIRU~: ' · 
Special to The Observer The University of Notre Dame received $1,227,234 in grants during October for the  sociates Inc. for research by Stephen Silliman, assistant professor of civil engineering. --$137,800 from the U.S. Army for research on scanning tun­ --$119,162 f:rom the U.S. Air Force for research on medal­ing, simulation and analysis of quantum transport by Supriyo Bandyopadhyay and Craig  --$18,100 from Center for Ad­vanced Study in Behavioral Science for a postdoctoral fel­lowship for Luis Fraga, assistant professor of govern­ partment of Education for scholarships in environmental research by Robert Irvine, pro­fessor of civil engineering and director of the Center for  
support various  of research and programs. Research  neling microscopy by John Dow, Freimann professor of  Lent, assistant professors of electrical and computer engin­ ment and international studies. --$14,668 from the National  Bioengineering Control.  and  Pollution  
funds  totaled $856,550 includ­ physics,  and  James  Kaiser,  eering, and Wolfgang Porod,  Science  Foundation  for  col­ --$7,500  from  National  
ing:  professional  specialist  in  associate  professor  of  laborative research in hetero­ Wildlife Federation for an en­ 
--$210,380 from Ken Davis As- physics.  electrical and computer engin­ geneous c~talysis by Eduardo  vironmental conservation fel­ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM en ""CIN PREPARATION FOR THE m (') MAY, 1989 -)> r-CPA EXAMINATION en -1 INFORMATION MEETING§ m THURSDAY DECEMBER 1, 1988 ~ 7:00 P.M. ""C ]JROOM 122 -(")HAYES-HEALY CENTER mNOTRE DAME CAMPOS en COUEGE OF  eering. --$64,500 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on stereoselectivity in electron transfer by Alexander Lappin, associate professor of chemistry. --$35,000 from the U.S. Army for research on metal­laboranes as precursors to metallic glass by W. Robert Scheidt, professor of ch~mistry, and Thomas Fehlnerr Grace-Rupley profes­sor of chemistry.  Wolf, professor of chemical engineering. --$7,800 from the Council of International Exchange Scholars for research on Toson's Haru by Michael Brownstein, assistant profes­sor of modern and classical lan­guages. --$2,500 from American Phi­losophy Society for manuscript research in Europe during the summer of 1988 by Kent Emery, asssistant professor in the program of liberal studies. Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $228,718 from International Business Machines for a technical gifts program administered by Eleanor Bernstein, associate professional specialist and director of the center for Pas­toral Liturgy. Awards for instructional pro­grams totaled $107,500, includ­ing: --$100,000 from the U.S. De­ lowship from 1988 to 1989 by Victor Bierman, associate professor of civil engineering. Awards for service pro­grams totaled $5,546 from private benefactors for pro­grams of. the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. Awards for other programs totaled $28,920, including; --$27,420 from Council for In­ternational Exchange Scholars for a Fulbright Lectureship in the USSR for James Sterba, professor of philosophy. --$750 from Michiana Arts and Sciences Council for the Ruby Pozzatti Printmaking Workshop, administered by Donald Vogl, associate profes­sor of art, art history, and design. --$750 National Endowment for the Humanities for a Legal History of the Cherokee Nation by Sharon O'Brien, associate professor of government and international studies.  

------l 
Wednesday, November 30, 1988 The Observer 
pages 

I 
Strong limitations placed on power of Gorbachev 1 
~­

Not much longer? The Observer/Scott McCann 
Construction continues outside Nieuwland Hall even has been the scene of many puddles this fall. amidst the cold, rain and snow. The construction site 
South Shore to continue trains to Chicago despite financial trouble 
Notre Dame recieved $1.2 million in grants, nearly $250,000 in awards 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW--President Mik­hail Gorbachev bowed to criticism of his constitutional reforms Tuesday, sayimg he will accept tighter limits on presidential power and try to accommodate republics clamoring for more autonomy. 
Gorbachev, acknowledging the political give-and-take forming in the freer atmo­sphere he has fostered, told the Supreme Soviet, or parlia­ment: 
"Our own socialist system of 'checks and balances' is taking shape in this country, designed to protect society from any vi­olations of socialist legality at the highest state level." 
The Supreme Soviet is con­sidering during its three-day session a package of almost 120 articles of legislation first pub­lished five weeks ago that Gor­bachev says are the first major step toward a political system 
One of three charges against North dropped 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The judge in the Iran-Contra case on Tuesday upheld two of the central charges against Oliver North but dismissed the third count. 
U.S. district Judge Gerhard Gesell refused to dismiss the two charges of conspiracy to defraud the government and theft of government property against the former National Se­curity Council aid that arose from the diversion of U.S.-Iran arms-sale proceeds to the Nicaraguan rebels. 
"The indictment clearly al­leges a conspiracy which in­volved concealing the very existence of the profits of the enterprise from the start and hiding from Congress informa­tion relating to the con­spirators' assistance for the Contras," Gesell said. 
based on law, not central dic­tate. 
But the draft laws faced stiff criticism that they actually stengthen the presidency, which Gorbachev assumed on Oct. 1, against the legislature, and strengthen Moscow's power against that of the 15 So­viet republics. 
The unprecedented criticism of the proposed legislation was highlighted by the Estonian republic's Nov. 16 "declaration of sovereignty" over all inter­nal affairs and demand to review all new Soviet legisla­
tion. Several Supreme Soviet deputies, including two top of­ficials from the Baltic republics, registered dissatis­faction Tuesday with elements of the reform. 
Arnold Ruutel, the Estonian president, told reporters that Surpreme Soviet deputies only received copies of the amended proposals on Tuesday. They have not been published. 
"Its purpose depended on deceit from the start, and acts of concealment were actually part of the commission of the substantive crime," the judge said of North's contention the conspiracy count was invalid because it alleged more than one criminal conspiracy. 
But Gesell dismissed a wire fraud charge, saying it "is, in many ways, a cumulative count" that would only create "substantial confusion in the 'minds of the jurors." 
All three charges also were filed against North's co­defendants: former National Security Adviser John Poindex­ter and arms dealers Albert Hakim and retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord. 
Gesell's dismissal,Rf the wire fraud count sug~sts that charge may also be dropped against the other defendants. 
But Gorbachev, detailing That was implied in the So­Congress of People's Deputies, some of the changes to the 1,500 viet Constitution, which re­a 2,250-member legislative 
Supreme Soviet members, said, "It is obvious that some of the provisions of the bills were not formulated precisely enough and cuased quite a few critical remarks in the course of discussions." 
"The draft now gives the 
U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet the right to repeal decrees and decisions by its Presidium, and orders by the Supreme Soviet president," Gorbachev said. 
quires Supreme Soviet con­firmation of directives of the Presidium, the highest execu­tive body on which Gorbachev serves as chairman. 
But the Supreme Soviet al­most never has challenged any such directive, and the pro­posed constitutional amend­ments said nothing about Su­preme Soviet review. 
Gorbachev's reforms call for the formation next year of a body that will include represen­tation from the Communist Party, trade and creative uni­ons, and social organizations as well as geographical legisla­tive districts. The Congress will choose a smaller Supreme Soviet, which is to become more active. 
He said the Congress would have power to recall any offi­cial it appoints, including the president. 
~ 
, 1 
1 
' _.. '_ 't";:
_,_...-err: 

Associated Press 
GARY, Ind.--Officials of the Northern Indiana Com­muter Transportation Dis­trict plan to make an offer to buy the South Shore Rail­road's troubled passenger and freight operations. 
The railroad is in financial trouble because of losses in its freight operation, offi­cials say. The district and Metra, an Illinois funding authority, subsidize the pas­senger operation with state and federal money. 
District officials also said Monday that they will begin negotiating on Friday a sub­sidy agreement for 1989 with Stratford Partners, a con­sulting firm managing the railroad until a new owner is found, and will appeal the Interstate Commerce Com­mission ruling a week ago that allows the commuter service to terminate Jan. 1. 
Despite the railroad's fin­ancial problems, district board president William Carmichael said the pas­senger trains, which carry about 6,000 week-day com­muters along the South Bend-to-Chicago route, will continue to run. 
"The passengers need not feel jeopardized, despite what's been going on," Car­michael said. 


.....---~-----~--~----------~-~------------­
page6 The Observer Wednesday, November 30, 1988 
FAA calls for additional alarm system on jetliners 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The Federal Aviation Administra­tion told the airlines Tuesday it wants an additional warning device in the cockpits of all U.S. commercial jetliners to tell pilots whether the critical takeoff alarm system is working. 
Commercial jetliners have alarm systems that are sup­posed to warn pilots if the plane's critical control devices such as wing flaps are not in the proper position for a takeoff. 
But in at least two recent crashes it is suspected that the alarms failed to sound because of a malfunction. A spot check earlier this year of Boeing 727 aircraft showed 35 cases in which the alarms either failed or did not operate properly, ac­

,.. .., 
r 
r 
, 
~ 
Students protest 

lsreali students of cinematograghy school throw used film into the air Tuesday in Jerusalem. They are complaining that their school has no money to provide them with any learning equipment, including 16mm film. 

BEST PIZZA IN TOWN. 
Special 1 Week Only Large Pizza 2 toppings only $8 
Dining Room, Carry Out and Free Delivery to a Limited Area 
Hot sandwiches: Ham & Cheese, Roast Beef, Meatball, Italian Sausage 
November 30-December 6 931 North Eddy 289-6625 
cording to the FAA. 
The FAA said in a proposed order Tuesday that it wants the airlines to install in cockpits of all large commercial jets an additional warning light that would go on if power has been disrupted for some reason to the takeoff warning system. 
The proposed directive, which is expected to go into ef­feet early next year and give airlines another year to comp­ly, would affect about 3,700 large commercial jets, accor­ding to the FAA. 
The modification, which likely would be made during a plane's routine maintenance so as not to interrupt normal ser­vice, would apply to aircraft manufactured by Boeing, McDonnell Douglas, Lockheed and Airbus Industrie, the European consortium, as well as foreign manufacturers of 
AP Photo 

smaller jets such as Fokker and British Aerospace. 
"You're talking about the en­tire CU.S.) passenger fleet of large jet airplanes," FAA spokesman Fred Farrar said. Some aircraft-but probably only a few-may already have the addition l warning devices, which are expected to cost $1,050 per aircraft to install, he said. 
Airlines have until February to comment on the proposal, after which the FAA is ex­pected to issue a mandatory re­quirement fairly quickly, offi­cials said. While the air carriers will have another year to comply, many probably will begin immediately to make the modification in some aircraft. 
The alarm systems have been a focus of attention in two major airline crashes within the last 15 months. 
----------------------~------------~-----------------­


Shelter 
continued from page 1 
shelter than in a semester of classes," Link said. 
Link's partner in much of the planning of the Center was J. D' Arcy Chisholm, Associate Director of Notre Dame's In­stitute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. "The only thing that would make me happier is if the need for this Center did not exist," Chisholm said. He con­tinued by saying that America needs to find a way to develop affordable housing if "we are going to have George Bush's kindler and gentler nation." 

College graduates arc needed to pilot, navi~ate, and maintain the mostsophisticatcdaircrafl in the world. 
• 
No cxpcriencc·necessary 

• 
All majors considered 



As a NAVY PILOT,you willlly the most advanced aircraft ever developed. 
•

As a NAVY FLIGHT OFFICER, you will 
operate the electronics and computers in the Navy's newest jets. 
Navy Officer Representatives will be on campus conducting an exclusive testing session. All interested students who arc within twc years of graduation are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity. Testing takes approximately 3~112 hours and seats are limited. · 
Date: Friday, Dec. 2nd Time: s a.m. -1 p.m. 
Place: The Placement Center 
Testing appointment may be obtained by calling _1:_·.::.80.::.0.::.·.::.5.=2..:..7·_:8:.:8:.::3.::.6__________ 
PILOT-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 uncorrected vision. Ages 19~26. 
FLIGHT OFFICER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 correctable vision. Ages 19-26. 
MANAGER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Ship handling and management. Strong emphasis in personnel management. Ages 19~26. 
BUSINESS MANAGER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Finance, personnel, logistics. Ages 19~28. 
ENGINEER-Start at $23,500 ($45,000 after 4 years). Bonus when selected. Project management. Engineering/Scienceri'echnical major. Ages 19-2!\ 
Sophomores & Juniors: 
NAVAL AVIATION CADET-Sophomores from 4-year or Community College that are undecided about continuing college may qualify for immediate Pilot training. Requirements: 60 semester hours, 2.5 GPA and pass the aptitude test. Single/no dependents. 
AVIATION RESERVE OFFICER CANDIDATE-Guaranteed PiloUFlight Officer Training at AOCS (Pensacola, FL) during Junior year summer break, and upon completion ofBS/BA degree. 
Must be a U.S. citizen and in good health. 

NAVY OFFICER 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 
•, 

AP Photo 
Ogden Phipps' two-year old thorough-bred colt, Easy Goer, an early favorite for the 1989 Kentucky Derby, appears relaxed in his stable at Gulfstream Park after arrival by plane from New York on Monday. He will be prepped at the south Florida track for the winter stakes events including the $500,000 Florida Derby. 
·'Ho hum" 
Father Newton concluded the dedication by explaining the logo for the center. The logo was designed by Adworks and depicts a pair of hands closing around a heart. "The hands are warming the heart, while at the same time, the heart warms the hands," said Newton. "We can reach beyond those we need to those who need us." Above the logo is the simple title for the facility, the Center for the Homeless. 
lAMERICAN cJ/CANCER
'.SOCIETY~ 



-------------------~----~ 
Wednesday, November 30, 1988 

Bent rule caused jet crash 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas--The pilot of 
a Delta Air Lines jetliner that 
crashed Aug. 31, killing 14 
people, testified Tuesday that 
some rules might have been 
bent in readying the Boeing 727 
for takeoff but that prepara­
tions were adequate. 
Larry Davis admitted 
seeming deviations from the 
rules under questioning by 
aerospace engineer Jeff Gor­
ney as the National Transpor­
tation Safety Board opened an 
inquiry into the crash on 
takeoff at Dallas International 
Airport. Ninety-four people 
survived. 
For instance, the Delta vet­eran of 23 years said he had used hand signals instead of calling out completion of each item on the pre-flight checklist and had made a takeoff brief­ing at the gate instead of on the runway. 
"I like to get as much done as possible before we get into the position of getting rushed," said Davis. 
Gorney also said a flight at­tendant was allowed into the cockpit when the jet was waiting to take off, despite an Federal Aviation Administra­tion rule requiring a "sterile" cockpit once the plane has left the gate. 
But he noted that the plane was "waiting in a line of traf­fic" and added: "I don't believe it was a critical phase of flight, but technically it was (in violation)." 
Presents: 


AP Photo 

The official insignia of the NASA STS-27 mission, a bolizing the return to flight of the manned space pro­secret military mission scheduled for lift-off from gram. The seven stars commemorate the memory of Kenedy Space Center, Fla. The insignia depicts the the crew of the ill-fated Challenger. (story below) Shuttle lifting off against a rainbow backdrop, sym-

Bad shuttle tire will not stop launch 
Associated Press ment they weren't concerned separating it from the external 
by one lingering problem: a fuel tank, a process that would 
CAPE canaveral, fla. (AP) leaking tire on the shuttle's take weeks. -Nasa forged ahead Tuesday main landing gear. The upcoming launch is with the countdown for the se­Technicians can't reach the being treated with as much cret mission of space shuttle tire, which is filled with secrecy as possible and the Air Atlantis despite a forecast for gaseous nitrogen, while the lan­Force has said only that it is unacceptably high wind and ding gear doors are closed. A scheduled for Thursday be­rain showers at launch time. refill would require rolling the tween 6:32a.m. and 9:32a.m. 
The managers said in a state-shuttle back to its hangar and EST. 



Comedian Extraordinaire! 
Among other things, she has opened for the Cosby Show! 
Don't miss her­You will regret it! 
page 7 

J.Montana appeals for lost girl 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO--Football quarterback Joe Montana and his wife Jennifer, flanked by FBI agents, made a dramatic appeal Tuesday for the return of a 9-year-old girl who was ab­ducted from a market on Nov. 19. 
"We're here as parents ... to ask the kidnapper of Mic­haela to please release her," said the San Francisco 49ers player. ''Jennifer and I talk just about nightly how we would feel going through this. I know and she knows how important it would be if this were our daughter for someone to come forward." 
Michaela Garecht was ab­ducted from a supermarket parking lot near her home in Hayward, across the bay from San Francisco. An 8-year-old girl who was with her described the man as white, anywhere from 18 to his early 20s, 6 feet tall with shoulder-length, blond hair and a pockmarked or pimpled face. 
The Montanas, who have two young daughters, spoke at the request of the FBI at the agency's San Francisco office. 
The FBI said it has intensi­fied the search for the child by sending 40,000 information packets to truck stops and police departments nation­wide. The packets include recent photographs of the blue­eyed youngster and an artist's sketch of the man who took her. 
Montana said the thought of losing one of their daughters to a kidnapper "just about brings tears to our eyes." 


Wednesday Night 9:00 P.M. 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, November 30, 1988 

Football tradition overshadows academics 
Welcome back, domers and Domettes. You must all have had a great Thanksgiving break. Mom's roast turkey and pumpkin pie surely taste better than the dining halls' tofu and chicken wings, don't they? You all look reinvigorated. And what's more, your faces smile No.1. Just as you see the old Golden Dome bathed in renewed glory, so can I see glory aglow on your faces. Whatever had you done over the break, I know you could not have missed the USC game. What a great game! Our heroes once again demon­strated that Notre Dame is No. 1. Their great deeds will be the talk of the town under the Dome this whole week. 
Xiao Xiang 

guest column 
Football is fun. Football is excite­
ment. Unfortunately, the football 
season is near its conclusion. What will 
come up in God's little acre are finals 
and long hours of studying. After the 
athletes won the No. 1 title on the fields 
for Notre Dame's athletics, here comes 
our chance to fight for Notre Dame's 
academic reputation. I assume all of 
us understand that these are two sepa­
rate matters. It is common sense that 
being big in athletics does not mean 
being big in academics. It is also com­
mon sense that when it comes to the 
matter of importance, academics goes 
before athletics in a school. We are, 
after all, sent here by parents for the 
degrees. The athletics only serve to in­
vigorate our bodies, to harmonize our 
minds and to enrich our lives, all of 
which ensure us better achievement in 
academics rather than provide replace­
ments for it. If a school is likened to a 
dog, athletics are only its tail. 

Common sense though it is, there is 
the practical need to emphasize it. For 
historical reasons, the name of our 
school has been irreversibly connected 
to football. When one mentions Notre 
Dame, people think of football. It is not 
bad that the competitiveness in football 
has won our school much publicity in 
the earlier stages of development. But 
publicity is one thing; reputation is an­
other. As the school grows stronger in 
academics, what the school needs is 
reputation, not mere publicity. The aca­
demic reputation cannot be won on the 
football field. The only way a school 
can establish its academic reputation 
Doonesbury 
HWI?OYOU 
5UPP05l3 7HEf 50/WUUA 
PR06RAM 
UK&7HIS~ 
I 

is through academic means, namely teaching, researching and publishing. 
Over the past few weeks, people have talked much about the overshadowing of the graduate schools by the under­graduate school. Leaving the truth of that aside, I feel more real and more devastating is the overshadowing of the academic program by the athletic pro­gram. What was the co-publicizing ef­fect of the athletics and the academics in the earlier stages of the academic development may become the over­shadowing effect of athletics on academics when the school is on its way to academi<; prominence. Cynics may degrade Notre Dame's academic com­petitiveness on the ground of its athletic competitiveness, especially when we 
ourselves are not cautious enough to keep the two matters straight from each other. Our former president, Father Res­burgh, had worked for more than thirty years in an effort to separate the academics from the athletics and to foster an academic program as com­petitive as the athletic one. He had succeeded in the latter more than in the former, probably because facts are 
The academic reputationcannot be WOn on the 
name for this phenomenon is, as every psychology major knows, conditioned response. It was discovered by the Rus­sian psychologist Pavlov that if one, over several trials, lights a red lamp before one gives a dog a piece of bone, the dog will salivate any time after­wards one lights a red lamp. The human mind can be conditioned in the same manner. So my advice is: let people think of football when they watch football. 
I believe that academic reputation and athletic reputation can peacefully coexist so long as they are kept clear of each other. I am therefore not advo­cating suppression of the athletic pro­gram. Believe me, I am as much a foot­ball fan as you are. It's a fact that the dog has a disproportionate tail. Tailor­ing it is not necessary. It is probably the fashion in the dog world (The dogs here have always led the dog fashion) to possess an impressive tail. It is beau­tiful. It is No. 1. Let the dog wag it, so long as it does not wag the dog. 
I am proud of the reputations Notre Dame dogs already enjoy: No. 1 ath­letic; No. 2 handsome (according to the magazine "Playdog"). I hope they will add to these one more: No. 1 intelligent. 
Xiao Xiang is a graduate student in physics. 


P.O. Box Q 
All of this brought some great smiles to Carlos's face since he is a very strong 
Senior fights a battle 
fan of our football team. Victory not 
football field. The only He is battling cancer and has asked me way a school can estab-to write you a letter expressing his ap­lish its acdemic reputa-preciation for all of the letters, calls,
and visits. He really misses not beingtiOn iS through academic able to be here with all of us. He hopes means, namely teaching, to once again beat the dreaded disease. 

against cancer 
Dear Editor: 

IhavejustreturnedfromBloomfield, Michigan, where I visited a Notre 
Dame senior named Carlos Petrozzi. 
researching and publishing.

_.______________ 
not nearly as stubborn as biases. I can see the continuing effort in the current administration in changing the school's image. However, I find quite question­able one of the means it is using: ad­vertising for the academics in TV com­mercials during football games. 
The Notre Dame commercial during the USC game goes like this: Notre Dame is a Catholic institution of higher learning with strong academic pro­grams. Knute Rockne, before he be­came the coach of Notre Dame football team, lectured on chemistry at Notre Dame. Next time you hear about Notre Dame football, think of chemistry. • Viewers probably will. And so will they think of football next time they hear about Notre Dame chemistry. The When he was a senior in high school he 
had a brain tumor surgically removed just before coming to Notre Dame for 
his freshman year. The tumor has reap­
peared in his pelvic bone. 
His spirits were very good when I visited with him and his family. He smiled a lot and explained in detail how he was going to fight with all of his might. We celebrated the sacrament of the sick together, and I could see in his eyes that his deep faith in the Lord is certainly a source of strength for him. 
He spoke proudly of the letters he had received from Father Malloy and also from Father Tyson. I gave him an auto­graphed picture of the football team and a coach's hat from Lou Holtz. The inscription of the photo read: "I hope that our team can have the same courage that you have shown!" The hat had the inscription: "To Carlos, Assis­tant Football Coach, N.D., Lou Holtz." 
Garry Trudeau 
Mil<£! 

I'M HE's
OH, 
MIKE! 

COM-COM­
I NeE[) 

ING/ !Net 
YOU' 
~ 
~I 
Editorial Board 

only for our football team but also for 
his fight against cancer. 
Carlos really needs our prayers 
during the next month. He will be un­
dergoing a massive dose of chemot­
herapy to suppress his immune system 
and eliminate the tumor. A bone mar­
row transplant will then follow. One of 
his twin sisters will be giving him the 
bone marrow that will rebuild his im­
mune system. 
As I left, Carlos came outside to my car by himself and shook my hand. He expressed how much he loved Notre Dame and all the people there. "I know that I am not just a number there! They do really care for me." He then told me to make sure that I told everyone how much he appreciates all everyone is doing. He especially likes it when people go to the Grotto and light candles and pray for him. 
So, during the next month, let us all storm heaven with our prayers. Let us also stay in contact with Carlos. He can receive mail: 
Carlos Petrozzi, Jr. 
27887 Woodcreek Way 
Bloomfield Hills, MI 48013 
I will continue to stay in contact with him and keep the Notre Dame commu­nity posted on his progress. 
Fr. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Director of Campus Ministry Nov. 28, 1988 




Quote of the Day 
"Because friendship is a communication of love, therefore where love is not mutual, there can be no friendship." 
St. Francis de Sales 
Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief......... . . . . . ....... Chris Murphy Business Manager ............................ John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managing Editor... . ................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager... .. Molly Killen News Editor... . ........... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager..... . . . . . . . Linda Goldschmidt News Editor.. . ...... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager. . . . . ........ Bernadene ShiHs 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor... . .............. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark RidgewayNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor ............... Marty Strasen Controller.............. . . . . . . . ........... Todd Hardiman the administration of either inst~ution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor................ . ..................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager . ..................... Marga Bruns possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary·s Editor........... ... Sandy Cerimele Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor . . .. . . . . . . . .. ......... .... Michael Moran space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 


-






Accent
Wednesday, November 30, 1988 page 9 

F·olk Choir: 'Part of a creative trend' 
It's Mr. RoncoRock 
HAO TRAN accent writer 

U 
pon entering the grandeur of Sacred Heart Church for 12: 15 Sunday Mass, one will delight in the echoes of a Gregorian chant. The Notre Dame Folk Choir siBgs this repetitious melody to create a calm, reflective mood so that Mass-goers will let go of the hurried world outside and focus on God and prayer. 
Throughout the mass, the 26 student members of the Folk Choir, along with their director Steve Warner, will lead the congregation in celebration and prayer with a variety of liturgical music from different cultures and eras. 
The name folk choir commonly denotes a selection of informal, homey music, or as director Warner describes it, "heart to heart, intimate and domestic." Although the 15 year old choir has gradually become more formal, it still works to convey the friendly warmness of the word "folk." The choir appreciates that some people wish to celebrate Mass in an informal manner as opposed to the formality of a mass with a full liturgical choir. 
A combination of flutes, 

O
ne thing about college-­geniuses as Boxcar Willie and you rarely get a chance 'Zamfir, master of the pan to watch much television. I flute') and Ronco (the expected to miss my favorite makers of quality products shows like David Letterman like Mr. Microphone and the and "Star Trek," but lately I in-the-shell egg scrambler) think I've been going through have joined forces to produce TV withdrawal. I almost long the finest television offer of for a repeat eoisode of all time; It's new, it's now, 
lan Mitchell 
Lion Taming 

"Three's Company." I've even started to miss the com­mercials. It's gotten so bad that I'm having this bizarre recurring nightmare in which I'm watching TV... 
Deep-voiced, excited an­nouncer: "Now, K-Tel records (the people who brought you such musical 

Ct>-l'JIN, WI-IERE ARE '(Oil? COME ON,Ct\liJIN, I'M I NlAN IT', CALVIN! S:ON£R. OR _LA_:\tR_S\-I_E'_S__,
I 

GH OIJT 1-\ERE .' GBi\NG T\Rt.O Of n.\I'S .' COME. 0\JT A~D Tf..\<E Gt>ING TO 14r>.~£. TO Q\JEST\0~
Calvin and Hobbes 
'iOIJR. BAT1-\.' NON/ 'tl\.lffi\ER nus IS REAlL~ 
Bill Watterson 

. 
~­
it's wow, it's Mr. RoncoRock! 
Yes, its a rock, but its so much more! This man-sized hunk of genuine natural minerals will enrich your life in so many ways. Its a paper­weight! Its a gravity tester! Its a doorstop! Its a hand­some conversation piece that 
and fam will trea­organ, guitar, trumpet, harp, and bodhran, an archaic 
drum, furnish the instrumental accompaniment to the 20 vocalists, five of each voice, which make up the choir. The variety of instruments, the employment of four separate voices, and the addition of a formal 
cantor exemplify some of the 
ways in which the choir has 
become more formalized. 
Because of the choir's unique musical needs director Steve Warner utilizes his knowledge of music and liturgy to rewrite and revise much of their written music. Warner tries to "bring integrity" to the music of the choir by "crafting it in a choral fashion and writing out parts." The music which he composes has a sense of "looking forward and backward," traditional yet looking to the new. The director notes that liturgical music is "blossoming as a new form" ever since the Catholic Mass has been held in English and the Notre Dame Folk Choir is an active part of that creative trend. 
To deepen and spread their knowledge and experience with liturgical music, the folk choir traveled to Ireland in the spring of 1988. The trip 

Notre Dame Folk Choir enjoys recent excursion to Ireland. 
was sponsored by several organizations including the Archdiocese of Dublin, the American-Ireland Fund, and the University itself. 
While absorbing the wonderful sights of Shannon, Waterford, and Dublin, the choir participated in liturgical workshops, gave performances and sang Masses. The folk choir was allowed to do the music for Masses at Irish monastic sites such as Glenstal Abbey, where no other outside group 
sure for generations to come! 
How much would you ex­pect to pay for a keepsake of this quality? But wait, don't answer yet, because there's more--if you act now, we will 
give you, absolutely free, this 
fabulous new record set: 
'Disco Polka Rock' filled with 
chart-busting hits never 
before heard by the ear of 
man and not sold in any 
Now how much would you pay? $30? $40? No! Through this special TV offer you get both Mr. RoncoRock and the special two-record set (or one long-pl'ay casette) for just $19.95! And, if you're one of the first two callers, we'll also give you this lovely car­rying case with the look and feel of hand-tooled leat­herette..." 
In dream, the channel had ever participated before. 
As a result of their overseas journey, the choir has developed and enriched their own reputation and the reputation of Notre Dame internationally. The trip was especially extraordinary in that it was one of few cross-cultural exchanges in pastoral and liturgical music. The choir has begun to utilize some of the music they learned in Ireland, here at Notre Dame. With appropriate funding, the 
changes and I see an ad for a horror film. 
The same deep-voiced an­nouncer begins: "The terror is unthinkable ... but the un­thinkable is real. Just when you thought it was safe to go after that stubborn ring around the collar--the sheer savage horror lunges out without warning like a drool­ing, demon-possessed hell­beast from the darkest, most hideously evil depths of the infernal satanic netherworld. Ronco films presents: 'The Laundry Man Cometh.' It all began innocently enough ... " 
(The screen shows a subur­ban home with a shattered window.) 
Vapid Housewife: "That's funny, dear; the house has been broken into, but all the criminals did was replace our regular laundry detergent with this brand X." 
Photo courtesy of Hllo Tnm 

group hopes to tour Ireland again in the near future. 
Three year choir member Christina Fallon feels that the 
12: 15 Mass has "come into its own" recently as a result of the warmth brought to it by the folk choir. The members have built a community together as a result of their dedication to the aims and hopes of the choir, those 
-· 
being to enrich and enliven 
the prayer life of the whole 
Notre Dame community· 
through music. 
Dun-dun-dunb-duh! (Foreboding music.) 
(The picture shows the housewife being chased around the house by the Oxydol man, who is holding two shirts.) 
Man (menacingly toneless): "Which shirt is whiter? Which shirt is whiter? Which shirt ... " 
Housewife: "I don't know! I don't know! Aaaaaaaah!" 
Here I wake up in a cold sweat. I think it should be clear by now ... I need help. I've got to admit my addic­tion. I'm a teleholic. But for now--l've gotta get some viewing time in. You know its a bad sign when you catch yourself singing the "Gil­ligan's Island" theme song-­and suddenly you notice you know all the words by heart. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
lHE CONSTITUTION 
·n,c "'''rJs we h\'c ~· 
I , ,....,., 
I ''1\, .' ..~~ ~
·'' r-,,' 

-
-
sports Wed nesd a Ywednesday, Novemb.,SO, 1988 

eage 10 


Sports Lists 

AP Football Poll 
APTopT_,ty 

The Top Twenty college lootball teams in The A&soclated Press poll. with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized. 
1. Notre o.m. (57) 11-0-0 1,197 
2. Miami 9-1-o 1,124 3. West Virginia (2) 11-D-0 1,069 
4. Florida State 10-1-0 1,013 
5. Southern Cal 10-1-D 946 6. Nebraska 11-1-0 891 7. Auburn 10-1-D 865 8. UCLA 9-2-0 733 9. Arkansas 10·1-Q 731 10. Oklahoma 9-2-0 64S 11. Michigan 8-2-1 591 t 2. Oklahoma State 8-2-0 548 13. Clemaon 9-2-0 488 14. Houston 9·2·0 402 15. Wyoming 11-1-0 306 16. LSU 8-3-0 259 17. Wash1ng1on State 8-3-0 222 18. Syracuse 8-2-0 170 19. G90fgia 8-3-0 149 20. Alabama 7-3-0 90

·­
Others receiving votes: Colorado 81, Michigan State 29, UTEP 20, Southern Mississippi 13, Souuth Carolina 5, Fresno State 4, Artzona 3, Army 1, In­diana 1, 
Scoreboard 
Reaults for Nov. 16-29 
Football (11-G) Notre Dame 21, Penn State 3 Notre Dame 27, Southam Cal10 
Men's basketball (1-G) Notre Dame 92, St. Bonaventure 72 
Hockey (3-1 G-2) lake Forest 5, Notre Dame 1 lake Forest 8, Notre Dame 4 Merrimack 3, Notre Dame 1 Merrimack 4, Notre Dame 3 (OT) Illinois-Chicago 8, Notre Dame 3 
Volleyball (14-11) Notre Dame del. Miami 15-1 t' t5-8, 15-4 Notre Dame del. Western Michigan 15-3, 4-15, 15-2, 15-3 Texas del. Notre Dame 14-16, 15-7, 15-4, 14-16, 15-7 Penn State del. Notre Dame 15-8, 12-15, 15-13, 3-15, 2-15 
Cross Country 

Men's Notre Dame 9th at NCAA Championship Meet 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Wednesday No sports scheduled 
Thursday Men's swimming at National Catholic Championships Women's swimming at National Cath­olic Championships 
Friday Women's basketball at Virginia Tournament Men's swimming at National Catholic Championships Women's swimming at National Cath­olic Championships Wrestling at Las Vegas Invitational Men's tennis at DuPont Intercollegiate Women's tennis at Clay Court Cham­pionships Hockey at Michigan-Dearborn 
Saturday 
Volleyball hosts PENN STATE in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, 7:30p.m. 
Men's basketball vs Kentucky at The Big Four Classic Women's basketball at Virginia Tourn­ament Men's swimming at National Catholic Championships Women's swimming at National Cath­olic Championships Wrestling at Las Vegas Invitational Men's tennis at DuPont Intercollegiate 
Hockey at Michigan-Dearborn 
Sunday Women's tennis at Clay Court Cham­pionships 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday Men's basketball vs. INDIANA, 7:30 p.m. Hockey at Illinois-Chicago 
Irish Volleyball 
The Notre Dame volleyball team (18­
11) will make its first appearance in the NCAA Tournament when it hosts Penn State (36-3) in the first round, Saturday, Dec.-3, at the Joyce ACC. Tickets prices determined by the NCAA are $5 for adults, $3 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and $2 for students 16 
and under. 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE, 
East  
w  L  T  Pet.  
Philadelphia  8  5  0  .615  
NY Giants  8  5  0  .615  
Phoenix  7  6  0  .536  
Washing1on  6  7  0  .462  
Dallas  2  11  0  .154  
Central  
Chicago  11  2  0  .846  
Minnesota  9  4  0  .692  
Detroit  3  10  0  .231  
Tampa Bay  3  10  0  .231  
Green Bay  2  11  0  .154  
West  
New Orleans  9  4  0  .692  
San Francisco  8  5  0  .615  
LA Rams  7  6  0  .536  
Atlanta  5  8  0  .385  

PF 314 266 303 291 213 
269 327 168 223 182 
282 310 324 225 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Eeat  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  
x-Buffalo  11  2  0  .846  273  
New England  7  6  0  .536  217  
Indianapolis NY Jets  7 6  6 6  0 1  .536 .500  290 2n  
Miami  5  8  0  .385  229  
CentreI  
Cincinnati  10  3  0  .769  395  
Houston  9  4  0  .692  326  
Cleveland  8  5  0  .615  221  
Pittsburgh  3  10  0  .231  245  
Weal  
Denver  7  6  0  .536  272  
Saattle  7  6  0  .536  247  
LA Raiders  6  7  0  .462  247  
San Diego  4  9  0  .308  177  
Kansas City  3  9  t  .269  191  

•-clinched dlvlalon title Mond•y'a Reaulte Seahawks 35, Raiders 27 
NBA Standings 
Eaatem Conf.,.,.ce Atlantic Dlvlalon 
w L  
New York  8 4  
Philadelphia  9 5  
New Jersey  7 7  
Boston  6 7  
Washington  4 7  
Charlotte  2 10  
Central Dlvlalon  
Detroit  10 2  
Cleveland  8 3  
Atlanta  7 6  
Chicago  6 6  
Milwaukee  5 5  
Indiana  1 11  
Weatem Conference  
Midwest DIYialon  
w L  
Dallas  9 3  
Utah  8 3  
Denver  8 4  
Houston  8 5  
San Antonio  4 7  
Miami  0 10  
Pacific DIYIIIIon  
LA Lakers  9 3  
Portland  7 5  
LA Clippers  6 6  
Seattle  5 6  
Golden State  5 7  
Phoenix  5 7  
Sacramento  1 9  
Wedneed•y'a Gemea  

Chicago at Utah New Jersey at Boston Portland at Philadelphia San Antonio at Miami Indiana at Detroit Houston at Dallas Saattle at LA Lakers New York at LA Clippers 
Pet. .667 
.643 .500 
.462 
.364 
.167 
.633 
.727 .536 
.500 .500 .83 
Pet. .750 .727 .667 .615 
.364 
.0 
.750 
.583 .500 
.455 .417 .417 .100 
PA 275 258 305 324 317 
152 185 265 325 262 
199 236 267 270 
PA 189 249 239 279 278 
261 294 206 343 
279 265 269 278 234 
GB 
2 
2.5 
3.5 
6 
1.5 
3.5 
4 
4 
9 
GB 
.5 
1 
1.5 
4.5 
8 
2 3 3.5 4 4 7 

Bowl Schedule 

Gator 

NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Adame Dlvlalon 

w L T GF GA Pta. Montreal 14 9 3 103 91 31 Boston 11 8 5 89 71 27 Buffalo 10 12 2 87 100 22 Hartford 9 12 1 75 82 19 Quebec 8 15 2 90 115 18 
Petrick Dlvlalon NY Rangers 13 8 3 100 85 29 Pittsburgh 13 10 0 109 104 26 Washington 11 10 2 84 83 24 New Jersey 8 11 4 74 87 20 Philadelphia 9 16 1 95 102 19 NY Islanders 7 14 2 72 94 16 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlllon 

w L T GF GA Pta Calgary 16 4 3 101 57 35 Edmonton 14 8 3 111 96 31 Los Angeles 15 9 0 124 100 30 Vancouver 11 11 4 88 76 26 Winnipeg 7 9 4 83 80 18 
Norrta DIYialon Detroit 12 7 4 92 84 28 Toronto 11 13 1 86 97 23 St. Louis 8 9 4 70 80 20 Minnesota 6 13 4 74 96 16 Chicago 6 15 4 100 123 16 
Wedneedey'a o ...... Montreal at Hartford Qebec at Buffalo Washing1on at Pinsburgh Vancouver at Edmonton 

California 
December 10th •4:00PM •ESPN 
Independence 
December 23rd • 8:00PM •Mizlou 
Sun 

December 24th • 1 :00 PM •CBS 
Aloha 

December 25th •3:30 PM •ABC 
Liberty 

December 28th • 8:00PM • 
All-American 
December 29th • 8:00PM •ESPN 
Freedom 
December 29th • 9:00 PM • ESPN 
Holiday 

December 30th • 8:00 PM • ESPN 
Peach 

December 31st • 1:00PM •Mizlou 
Western Michigan vs. Fresno St. 175 
rn vs. Fla. St. .75 million 
Nebraska vs. Miami 

AP Basketball Poll 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Assoctated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
I. Duke (47) 2.0 1229 
2. Michigan (7) 3-Q 1162 3. Georgetown (7) 2-o 1096 4. Syracuse (I) 4-Q 1090 5. Oklahoma 2-1 970 6. Iowa (1) 1-0 914 
7. Illinois t-o 808 8. Missouri 3·1 766 9. UNLV 2-1 742 
10. North Carolina 3-1 709 
11. Artzona o-o 670 
12. Georgia Tech 1-D 520 13. Louisville Q-1 397 14. Florida State 1-Q 369 15. Ohio State 2-1 364 16. NC State 1-Q 299 
17. Temple o-o 205 18. Villanova 1-1 145 19. Florida 2-1 121 20. Tennessee 1-0 103 
Others receiving votes: Loyola Marymount 91. Connecticut 75, Memphis State 57, New Mexico 40, G90fgia 33, UNC-Charlotte 33, Witchita State 30, Houston 22, Pittsburgh 21, Stanford 17, Saton Hall 
15, UTEP 15, West Virginia15,/ndiana 12, Southern Illinois 12. SMU II, California 7, Oregon State 7, Arkansas 6, Louisiana Tech 6, Kansas State 5, Kansas 5, DePaul 3, South Carolina 3, Colorado State 2, Providence 2, Xavier 2, Murray State 1, St. John's 1, UCLA I, Virginia 1, 


Now Available 
for 89-90 School Year 
Houses For Rent 
.,.--· 
Inexpensive, safe, &close to campus 
702 St. Louis St. For more information call 733" 
Laura

734" 801 " 289-6621 
919 South Bend Ave. 
J-{appy 16th 'Birtlitfay 
our 

I 
U'e foo~tf a[[ over 6ut coufdn 't fina a picture ofyou! 
LIWe, tfieir rea£ cfii{lfren, ·..____.,.____ 
_______I~~3~£'!!::!!!! ___ _j 
-
Wednesday, November 30, 1988 The Observer page 11 


D. Thomas wins the Butkus 
Notre Dame's Stonebreaker finishes third with 17 votes 
Associated Press relation to the Nebraska Derrick Thomas said he had player, for the Crimson Tide met Broderick Thomas, and 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Alabama's and has said he would go after they had joked about who slashing play-breaker Derrick him in the NFL draft. He won't would win the award, but he Thomas nosed out his buddy, be alone. said he believed Broderick 
Broderick Thomas of Nebras­"I wouldn't mind" playing would be a hard man to beat in ka, to win the fourth annual for the Bucs, Thomas told the balloting. Butkus Award Tuesday as the reporters in a telephone confer­Derrick Thomas, who has nation's outstanding college ence call from school. But if he received several citizenship linebacker. had his choice, he said he would awards and was team captain 
Mike Stonebreaker of Notre rather play for the Los Angeles this year, had 93 tackles, 22 Dame was third. Raiders "because of the way sacks and two blocked kicks 
Alabama Coach Bill Curry they are on and off the field, this season. called Derrick Thomas, a 6-their lifestyle in general." foot-4, 220-pound outside Thomas received two more He said his major satisfac­linebacker, "one of the points in the voting by a 12-tion was "getting to the quar­greatest in Alabama history." member selection panel than terback five or six times during 
An All-Southeast Conference Broderick Thomas. a ballgame." performer with 22 sacks, he On a 3-2-1 point system, Der­said he realized he was follow­rick Thomas received four Thomas, who attended ing in the footsteps of former first-place ballots and a total of Miami's Killian High School, NFL star Dick Butkus, for 22 points. Broderick Thomas will receive his trophy from whom the award is named. got three first-place votes and Butkus at a black tie dinner in 
"He intimidated offenses, 20 points. Orlando Saturday night. It is 
and I feel I can do that too," Stonebreaker was followed awarded by the Downtown Ath­said Derrick Thomas, who is by Keith DeLong of Tennessee letic Club of Orlando. from Miami. and Percy Snow of Michigan 
Former Alabama coach Ray State. Stonebreaker received Previous winners are Brian 
Perkins, now head coach of the three first-place votes and 17 Bosworth of Oklahoma in 1985 NFL's Tampa Bay Buc­points. DeLong had seven and 1986 and Paul McGowan of caneers, recruited Thomas, no points and Snow six. Florida State last year. 

Bad ratings not expected to affect 1992 Olympics 
Associated Press can market for our Games. The smiled broadly. ''That is a hard and ABC, which lost money on Abad said he thought Bar­Spanish economy and setting is question," he said. "I would be its $309 million rights invest­celona's six-hour time differ­
NEW YORK -The chief exec­more exciting." a bad negotiator if I explain my ment for the Winter Games in ence with New York, compared utive officer of the 1992 Bar­Abad said talks were continu­figure." Calgary, are expected to make with the 14-hour difference in celona Olympic Games said ing with all three commercial token bids. Seoul, would help in negotia­Tuesday he expects no networks. "We are absolutely Industry speculation is that NBC has never made public tions. negative impact on television on time for successful negotia­the rights will be sold for $350 the final financial outcome of negotiations for those Games tions," he said. "I hope to close million, $50 million more than its coverage. Four corporate sponsors in­because of the poor ratings that the negotiations by Friday. NBC paid for the Seoul Games. It is expected that the win­cluding Anheuser Busch have 
the Seoul Games delivered for "It's possible there could be CBS purchased rights to the ning network will cut its invest­signed up for the Barcelona NBC. a hold up, but I know of no prob­1992 Winter Games at Al­ment by farming out part of the Games with four more to be 
"Absolutely not," said Jose lems at the moment." bertville, France, for $243 mil­programming rights to cable added later. "I think the Miguel Abad. "It is different Asked how much he thought lion and is expected to be the television, the first time Olym­Spanish situation is of more in­with Spain. I believe there will the Barcelona Games could get strongest bidder. NBC, disap­pics would be shown in that terest for American and Japa­
"110re interest in the Ameri-for American TV rights, Abad pointed over the Seoul return, market. nese companies," he said. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
Going to Florida or vicinity???? I am 
To the gorgeous gal who offered me a and I need someone to help share driving UNIV PIZZA DLVY 2n-a889 
hand with my bags Sunday by the circle: and expenses. Call 283-2B92 if you need 
What the h was I thinking? I'd love

'---N_o_T_Ic_es~l IL-_FO_RR_E_Nt___..l L...-1_nc_K_ET_s____J 
a ride. Turkey day has come and gone, and some help! Who are you?? 
..................................... Santa is just around the corner This FOR SALE:! AD TAP TKTTO PHOENIX. TO MY YELLOW ROSE OF TEXAS (IN Friday is the Senior Class Christmas
TYPING AVAILABLE FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO. FOR SALE :coupon for $9B rdlrip ticket 287-4082 AVAILABLE.NOW OR NEXT SEMES­OR ANYWHERE MIDWAY FLYS. INC­chicago-minr>lit. paul for Christmas break 
RED AND BLUE) FROM COMMONS Formal. WED. 16TH.IT WASN'T ALL FOOT­It is an event you won't want to miss!
TER. 2B7-63B9 OR 6B3-88B9. VIRGIN # 4850 IS,BAHAMAS,FLA. GOOD 1 YR. $350 .........................................................
BALL. IT WAS HOOPS, TOO. STOP BY IF YOU WANT TO GO ONE-NON-ONE MATH TUTOR-234-3878.
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING FURNISHED ROOMS,SECURITY SYS-OR BEST OFFER. CHARLIE X2449 HAVE YOU TUNED INTO THE HEART 272-8827 TEM ALSO 2 BEDROOM HOME.BOTH AND SOUL OF MICHIANA? WLLJ JAM 
(I'M RIGHT ACROSS FROM THE WATER FOUNTAIN). CLUB 23 Excellent stuffed and ragular
WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 910 AM MOTOWN AT ITS BEST 
pizza. Eat In or cerry out. 234-3541 

..... ······································ ACADEMICBUSINESS TYPING 
HELPII! I need as many ND-IU basketball BALLROOM DANCERS: no practice I NEED 1 GA TO THE FIESTA BOWL! room had been found as of deadline time hlag.
tickets as I can get!! Call Colleen at CALL KRISTIN AFTER 10PM 284-4225 WANTED for classifiads yesterday. call mary 1363, 
237-1949 
x4053. 

kate, or bill sometime today to find out Thankyou St. Jude 
MATEO'S SUB SHOP where 
FREE DELIVERYEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 

SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 ............ 
271-oSUB

MRS. COKER, 233-7009. BUYING FIESTA BOWL
blocks from campus. Pandora's Books 
OFFICIAL "G-MAN" (alias: Hlf I'm PRAY TO ST. JUDE BOB Howard St. Just off N.D. Ave. Ph# 
TOP$ PAID "THE EASTERN STYLE SUB" 
Gary) BOAY WEEKfl SEE IF YOU CAN OF800-288-2461.
233-2342 SAY HAPPY BOAY BEFORE HE ASKS YOU YOUR LIFE STORYI-CHUCKIE BUY!SELL FIESTA BOWL. BUY 90-250, PREPARING FOR SECOND INTER­OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.

\ LOST/FOUND I • 
VIEWS PLANNING FOR THE OFFICE

Summar, Yr.round,Ait Countries, All SELL 125-400.
AMY RAZZ-ONLY 2 MORE DAYS TIL VISITJI>LANT TRIP. A PRESENTATION 
fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-AIR & HOTEL AVAILABLE.
BUTT ... 
GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSis­LOST: ONE ILLINOIS DRIVER'S 

IN04-Corona Dal Mar, CA 92625 THE TICKET EXCHANGE, TEMPE
PERSONALS 
·················· TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER & PLACE­WANTED: 33 hour roadlrippers from
LICENSE. THE PERSON WHO FOUND 800-727-3287. 
MENT SERVICES. HESBURGH LI­

j
IT CALLED MY ROOMMATE. PLEASE FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR heck OH&I70 to STL&I40 ... TEMPE!! 
BRARY LOUNGE, THURSDAY,CALL AGAIN-I NEED SOME IDENTIFI­2ND SEMESTER. PRIVATE ROOM IN 

x2306 
DECEMBER 1 AT 4:00 P.M.

CATION# 2881 KEVIN LARGE 4 BR STUDENT HOUSE. 
THE KATE-MONSTER IS 22 TODAY! WALK TO NO. 255-5852 EVENINGS 
SHE LOVES TO PARTY, SHE LOVES PREPARING FOR SECOND INTER·$$$$ REWARD I lost a small brown zip­
•I
FOR DETAILS. 

TO LAUGH, SHE LOVES TO $CAM SO VIEWS PLANNING FOR THE OFFICEper bag with my keys and 10 in it. The ATTENTION ALL DRUM MAJOR 10 is behind the flap in the key chain CANDIDATES!!
HERE'S YOUR CHANCE. SENIORS VISITJI>LANT TRIP. A PRESENTATION Ride Needed to Columbus Oh..O.S.U. 
HAPPY B-DAY KATIE O'BRIEN! LOVE YOU'RE IN LUCK! GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSis­Keep the money, I desperately .-d the Dec 2-4. Kevin xt631 
ALWAYS. BRIG AND PECHOUS X-MAS FORMAL TIX TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER & PLACE­
10. keys and bag. I will do anything to Anyone who has not (1) paid Gaofllor 
!
STILL AVAILABLE MENT SERVICES. HESBURGH LI­
get them back! Well. almost anything ... his cassatte tapes or returnad the tape
Need ride to Indianapolis on Sat. for b­
FOR SALE-ONE WAY PLANE TICKET HURRY, THEY'RE GOING FAST BRARY LOUNGE, THURSDAY,
Call Liz X2n9 ball games. If you can help, call Joe to him, or (2) paid Mike the $3.20 lor
From Newark to S.Bend leaving late af­DECEMBER 1 AT 4:00 P.M.
x4137. Would like to leave SB Sat AM lha pizza party, PLEASE bring the $$ 
ternoon Jan. 16. Good price. Call LauraLOST loa! LOST 
for 1st garT}Il & return Set PM after 2nd or tapes to the meeting this afternoon
at 2B4-5417.

Blue BASF Macintosh Disk Initialized: (or at least an I.O.U.). Baloved band AVALON 
game. THE Christopher Wa"er I HAVE A MAJOR mambers are out some SERIOUS 
We are swept away To distant Fantastic

SENIOR PAPER DUE AND IT IS ON THAT DISK. dough (like $32.00), so please getltln SKI
Help us celebrate GISELA "ZELDA" cloudiness Magestic Resplendent Magi­RUST'S 2oth birthday-call her at 284-cal towers stand proudly upon These
The disk has Management Disk on the ASAP. 
TRIP label. Call x20 17 if you find it. (this maens you too, MT)
4120. Love, Penelope, Harriet, Myrtle. high cliff walls Overlooking the World
IS COMING! 

FOR SALE Bertha.Bianche,Ethei,Wilma,&Betty. 
Greeting the frothy iridescence Cresting

(LOOK FOR DETAILS SOON!)1 pair car keys found near Brownson 
lighYy upon the graceful Waves crashing 
gently and Dancing upon Brilliant

Haii.Oome. Call 2B3-4148 to 10 tham. AIRPLANE TICKET FOR SALE SOUTH­MARCHING BAND TYPESI!Ifl 
Serene Songs of Sunshine

BEND TO WASHIGTON D.C. OR MARCHING BAND TYPES!!!!!
SHELLBELL--Have you seen the green RuThleSs IS 21 TODAY! FOUND Wornens blue coat found· at RALEIGH DURHAM ROUND TRIP $230 
A sweet Flowing Figure of Radiance

machine tandem lately? My bum still HAVE A" GREAT DAY! Unitad terminal at LAX. Left after 4:00pm or BEST OFFER CALL MARCEUNA NO-CUT MEETING!! TODAY!!! 
Happiness Rests peacefully upon the

hurtsl Thanks for the fun. Je t'aime---­LOVE YOUR CrAzY ROOMIES 
Lofty rampart and floats silently Softly

flight. Call Grag, 259-B337 2B3-3294 ELUBELLI Fiesta Bowl travel meeting Ia at 4:30 
amidst the cool Airy billows of misty

THIS AFTERNOON In the bandroom FOUND: Airplane pin near Nieuwland Grad Stud departing USA must sell 81 Attendance mandatory. No walrusses Gimme anN 
······························· 
spray Bearing our souls Across the 
Threshold of Forever

Hall about six weeks ago. Call Mr. Clerk FORD L TO excellent cond. AMFM $1500 That Is all. 
Gimme an I at 2B7-2B27. Call Jeff: 2B7-4240. 
··················································· 
-LAUNCELOT

YOU WERE IN LAFORTUNE MONDAY, Gimme an M ....... Gimme an R
·················~··· 
AROUND 6:30 P.M. YOU ARELOST: black Wayfarer Ray-Ban sun­79 BUICK SKYHAWK.LOW 
Gimme an 0 

glasses (2-3 weeks ago) I can identify MILE,CLEAN LOADED.272~306 AVERAGE HEIGHT, DARK HAIR, NICE ································································ To my Bleu Marine (who's really in Air
Gimme anD them! Please call 4666 
Going to Big 4 in Indy? Room for 1 or 2
TAN (GREEK PERHAPS?). YOU WERE Force),-Thank you so much or your sup­
What's that spell?

more? $$ Eric or Don x171 0 NIMROD! LOST:35mm CANON SURE SHOT 
WEARING A BASEBALL HAT AND SKI port; you don't know how much I appre­
JACKET. I HEARD YOU ALWAYS READ ciate ~-Thanx for being my best friend. Salomon Women's Ski Boots slza RIDERS NEEDED: 
Who's a Nimrod? LAST SEEN:NOV 11 AT THE SMC 
THE PERSONALS, SO I THOUGHT I'D I LOVE YOU! 7or8-great condition graat price # 1 WAY TO CT. FOR X-MAS BREAK. 
The LEPERCHAUN! SENIOR DANCE. IF FOUND CALL 
SAY"HI"" AND WAIT FOR YOUR REPLY Wanna fwop? 2788 CALL HALLIE. 284-4088. 
Love. KiddoTRISH 284-5056 

page 12 
-

SPORTS BRIEFS 
NV A basketball referees have a mandatory meeting on Monday, Dec.5, at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium in the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
Irish Insanity will meet tonight at 8 in the Dooley room at the first floor of LaFortune to discuss plans for the Indiana game. All are welcome. -The Observer 
The NO Women's Track Club is holding practices at 4 p.m. at the Loftus Center. New members are welcome. -The Observer 
lnterhall football equipment return for teams who have not yet done so will take place today at Gate 9 of the stadium for the following teams: Stanford 6:00, Grace 6:20, Flanner 6:40, Fisher 7:00, Dillon 7:20, Cavanaugh 7:40, Carroll8:00 and Alumni 8:20. A $5 fee will be charged to anyone who returns equipment after Wednesday. -The Observer 
The o.ne-on-one basketball tournament begins today at 7 p.m. m the Joyce ACC arena. The finals will be at the Notre Dame-Indiana game on Tuesday, Dec. 6. -The Observer 
~n ~olleg.e basketball l~st night, Indiana defeated Miami of OhiO 87-70; Iowa buned Drake 96-72; Illinois pum­meled Metro State 86-55; Wichita State thrashed George Mason 96-75; Old Dominion beat William and Mary 70-62; and Dartmouth shocked Boston College 80-74. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune 
Wayman Tisdale (top left) and Michael Anderson
Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer of the Indiana Pacers defend against Sam Perkins of the Dallas Mavericks In a game played earlier 
Two blacks, 
woman among 
NL pres. choices 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Two blacks and a woman are among the top contenders to become National League president. If chosen by the search committee, the new president would become pro­fessional sports' highest­ranking official from a minority group. 
Simon Gourdine, a former deputy commissioner of the NBA, is the top contender among the minorities, accor­ding to a baseball source who asked not to be identified. 
Gourdine was a deputy com­missioner and chief operating of the NBA for eight of his 12 years with the league, and dealt with labor and television negotiations, expansion, and the league's merger with the American Basketball Associa­tion. For the past three years, Gourdine, 48, has been director of labor relations for New York's Metropolitan Transpor­tation Authority, which operators the subway and bus system and commuter rail­roads. 

! 
Phyllis Collins, the vice pres­ident and secretary of the NL and the league's No. 2 official behind Bart Giamatti, also is l being given top consideration, ~ according to the source. 
! 
l Giamatti is leaving to become baseball commissioner. Collins, 57, has been with the 
league for 11 years and gradually has become the top official in the league office, dealing with the adminstrative details of running the league. Before coming to the NL, she was a secretary with the At­lanta Braves for 10 years. 
Gilroye A. Griffin Jr., the vice president of labor rela­tions for Bristol-Myers, is an­other leading candidate, but currently is ranked behind Gourdine, the source said. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 




---~--------~-----~------~ -·---~ ------­
strength and consistency." In doubles action, Notre 
Cahill and Barton also played Dame's number-one team of doubles together for the first DiLucia and junior Walter Dol­time in a tournament, and they hare advanced to the quarter­advanced to the quarterfinals. finals of the tournament before 
pair won two matches losing to a Northwestern pair before losing to a doubles team 6-3, 7-5.. 

WE'RE #1! 
CBEBRIITE8tf CROtcf/;1/~ TilE 80ROER. .... 
Rich Rehg!

WED 9:00-2:00AM 
Birthday Wishes from Charleston, St. Louis and Pittsburgh 


Wednesday, November 30, 1988 
Smagala 
continued from page 16 
memorable play because at the time USC was driving," said Southall. "I was on the sideline waiting to come in and I was thinking that we needed a big play right at that time, so for me it was perfect. 
"I saw the receiver slip and Stan was in the right place at the right time, doing his job by being where he was supposed to be. I think he would have in­tercepted the ball either way." 
The interception marked the biggest play to date in Smagala's career at Notre Dame, a career which has wasted no time getting started. 
Smagala was thrust into the cornerback position, never having played it in his life before. 
A tailback in high school, Smagala gained 1300 yards on 170 carries at St. Laurence High School in Burbank, ear­ning all-area and all-city honors. 
"(The transition from tail­back to cornerback) was really difficult," said Smagala. "I had trouble my freshman year, pulling a lot of hamstrings. It was different to tackle some­one instead of getting tackled. 
"I just liked being at Notre Dame so I didn't care what po­sition they put me in." 
As a freshman Smagala earned a varsity letter as a reserve cornerback and on spe­cial teams. 

Stan Smagala 
After that, he secured a start­ing spot at cornerback in his sophomore season and has held it ever since, two interceptions and 74 tackles later. 
Smagala was hampered by injuries as a sophomore, mis­sing the Alabama game and having to have surgery on his shoulder. 
"I feel I've improved a lot from last year techniQue-
The Observer 
wise," said Smagala. "I'm more of a competitor this year than last year, and I'm not in­jured at all." 
Smagala boasts excellent speed, running the 40 in 4.35. He was second only to Tim Brown last year and third this year behind freshman Raghib Ismail and senior D' Juan Fran­cisco. 
"Being back in the secondary is a great responsibility to the team," said Southall. "You have to have confidence in yourself and the players around you. Stan is one of the people you can always count on." 
Smagala prides himself as a quiet player who doesn't have to be told twice what to do. 
"I like to keep to myself," said the cornerback. "I like doing what the coaches ask me to do, and doing it the best I can. 
"I wrestled at 98 pounds my freshman year in high school," "I was small so my high school coach told me not to play foot­ball. I've always been told that I was too short, too small, too light to play football, but I like to think I've proven them wrong." 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch
Ce Ce Cahill made it to the semifinals of the ITCA-Rolex Midwest Regional Championship In giving. Details of how other members of Irish Madison, Wis. during the weekend before Thanks-tennis teams fared appears at right. 

---------~__, 
page 13 
The Observer I Zoltan Ury 

Stan Smagala moves Into position last weekend against Southern California. Smagala has quietly helped anchor a steady Irish sec­ondary over the last two years. Scott Brutacao features the depend­able cornerback starting on the back page. 
Cahill, Dilucia lead tennis teams at Rolex 
Special to The Observer 
The  Notre  Dame  women's  
tennis  team  had  two  people  
reach  the  semifinals  in  the  

ITCARolex Midwest Regional Championships before Thanks­giving break at Madison, Wise. 
Sophomore CeCe Cahill, seeded fifth in the tournament fell to top· seed Shawn Foltz of Indiana 6-1, 6-2 in a two-and-a­half hour match. Before that loss, she defeated three oppo­nents without dropping a single set. 
Unseeded freshman Tracy Barton fell to third-seeded Stephanie Reece of Indiana 6-4, 6-4. In the previous round, Bar­ton had beaten sixth-seeded Wendy Geets of Wisconsin 6-2, 6-0. 
"Tracy played like a house afire," said Irish coach Mic­hele Gelfman. "I was very pleased with her perfor­mance. She played with from Wisconsin. 
The tournament ended the fall season for the women's team. 
Notre Dame's men's team also competed in the Rolex Championships, and freshman David DiLucia advanced to the quarterfinals. 
DiLucia, the nation's 49th­ranked collegiate player, lost to top-seeded Dan Golberg of Michigan 6-2, 6-2. Golberg was 
-
a 1987 NCAA finalist and cur­rently is the.fourth-ranked col­legiate player in the country. 
"Like in any tournament, we had highs and lows," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "One of the highs was DiLucia's play. He didn't come close to losing a set until he played Golberg. David was a little rushed because he knew what kind of player he was playing against. Golberg had answers for everything David threw at him, but those are lessons freshmen have to learn." 

You dorit need yourparents'money 
to buyaMacintosh. 
Just theirsignature. 
page 14 

Miami can't repeat, says W. Va. coach 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. -Any University of Miami claim to the national championship is flawed by its loss to Notre Dame, and there's no way the Hurricanes can change that, West Virginia coach Don Neb­len said Tuesday. 
Miami coach Jimmy Johnson said Sunday that if his team wins the rest of its games and No. 1 Notre Dame loses to No. 3 West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl, the Hurricanes should successfully defend their 1987 title. 
That defies logic, Nehlen said. 
"At the end of the Notre Dame-West Virginia game, there will be one undefeated team. That team will be the na­tional champion," Nehlen said. 
Both Notre Dame and West Virginia are 11-0. No. 2 Miami is 9-1 with a games remaining against Brigham Young on Sat­urday and Nebraska in the Or­ange Bowl. The Hurricanes lost to Notre Dame 31-30, missing a 2-point conversion try in the final minute. 
"Jimmy Johnson's just trying to plant seeds in everybody's heads, but his team lost to Notre Dame and he can't erase that fact," Nehlen said. 
"The No. 1 team will play the No. 3 team in the Fiesta Bowl and the winner of that game will be the national champions because the No.1 team already has beaten the No. 2 team." 
West Vir inia's schedule has 

It's never been dift1cult for students to convince their parents of the need for aMacintosh® computer at sch<X)I. 
Persuading them to write the check, however, is another thing altogether. 
Which is why Apple created the Student Loan-to­Own Program. An ingenious loan program that makes buying aMacintosh as easy as using one. 
Simply pick up an application at the location listed below, or call H00-831-LOAN. All your parents need to do is fill it out, sign it, and send it. If they qualify, they'll receive acheck 
been criticized as too weak to 
give the Mountaineers a na­
tional championship. 
Brigham Young's 1984 team is cited most often when there is talk is of weak schedules con­tributing to national champion­ships, but Miami, too, once benefited from a relatively easy schedule. · 
In 1983, Miami's schedule in­cluded Houston, Purdue, Duke, Louisville, Mississippi State, Cincinnati, East Carolina, Notre Dame under Gerry Faust, and West Virginia. Miami won those games and lost 38-3 to Florida. But Miami beat Nebraska 31-30 in the Or­ange Bowl and won its first na­tional championship. 
"Schedules are something you can't even get into," Neb­len said. "We're a Division I college football team and we're undefeated and so is Notre Dame. We're the only ones left." 
Even if schedules are consid­ered, West Virginia still would have a claim for the national title, said Syracuse coach Dick MacPherson. 
"He's had a similar schedule before and never went unde­feated," MacPherson said of Nehlen, a longtime friend. "I think that what everybody needs to realize is that when anybody goes through 11 games undefeated, it shows the quality of the team and the coaches. 
"Let them do it before they start knocking West Virginia." 

Wednesday, November 30, 1988
The Observer 
' 
.. 

West VIrginia's Major Harris and the rest of the to who the national champions should be. A Mountaineers contend that if they beat the Irish related story appears at left. In the Fiesta Bowl, there should be no doubt as 
SMC women beat DePauw 69-52 
By HEATHER ATKINSON "It was a really good game Sports Writer overall," said Head Coach Marvin Wood. Our offense was 
The Belles of Saint Mary's good and our defense created College obtained their first vic­a lot of problems for them." tory of the regular season Nov. With five minutes left in the 22nd by defeating DePauw Uni­game the Belles led by 21 versity 69-52. points. DePauw rallied to close 
Saint Mary's had an excep­the margain, but the clock ran tional game, only turning the out and they fell short. ball over to their opponents eight times. In addition to few Junior Julie Radke led the turnovers they shot 47% from Belles in scoring with 17 points. the field as a team. Three additional olavers 

for you in just afew weeks. Which gives you and your parents plenty of time There's no collateral. No need to prove financial to decide just who pays for it all. 
hardship. No application fee. Best ofall,· the loan payments can he spread over 
IntroducingApple'sStudent Loan-to-OWn Program 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer Center/Math Building 
finished with double figures. They were juniors Amy Baranko (13) and Dawn Brow­man (10) and sophomore Linda Garrett (10). Baranko also led the team in rebounds, pulling down nine to help her team. 
"All of our girls contributed to the win," said Wood. "DePauw is a really good team and our girls kept the morale and enthusiasm at a high level to beat them." 
© 19HH Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, lnr. 
Wednesday, November 30, 1988 
CAMPUS 
12:10.1 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
9-10:30 a.m. "The Literary Work as Ethnography," by Pro­fessor Roberto DaMatta, professor of anthropology, 131 Decio. 
3:30 p.m. "Nonlinear Bearing Dynamics," by D.L. Taylor, Cornell University, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:20 p.m. "High Pressure Studies of Electronic Transitions in Semi-Conductors," by Professor Meera Chrandrasekhar, University of Missouri, Columbia, at 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30 p.m. "Regular Polytopes, Buildings, and Diagrams for Geometries," by Professor Stephen Smith, University of Il­linois at Chicago. Second floor of the Computer Math Build­ing. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
Grilled Pastrami Savory Baked Chicken Roast Turkey Beef Enchiladas Pepperoni Pizza Spinach Crepes Veg Rice Casserole Deli Bar 
· 

The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33-code 52 Dieters' concerns
34 Meaning 57 Balanchine 1 Tiff 35 "Diesin front ballet
Meistersinger"
10 Ohio city 

heroine 60 Sound from a sty 14 Noted lioness 
36 Balanchine15 Softly, musically 

61 Beforehand 16 Eliot's Bede ballet 
62 Lower 11 Balanchine Manhattan 40 Dram 
41 Wear down 

ballet district 42"­
20 Creche scene 63 Stratagem
Misbehavin"'

21 City where Van 64 Enjoys a 
43 U.S.NA grad

Gogh painted restaurant 22 Some Bklyn. 65 Prolific auth. 
44 Site of the Pearl trains Mosque 23 Polanski film 45 Contribute 
DOWN 

25 NYC. subway 47 Scout's payments achievement 1 Hemmed 29 Passion 48 T-man 2 Trial opener 30 Dry, as wine 49 Follower of Zeno JAdj. 4 Famed French actor 5" now that 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-there": Browning 6 Intimations 7 Comfortable 8 One or another 9 Monk's title 10 John and Bert 

-=+:=+.~:i"!'BB-:+:=+:'-i 11 Adored one ~~-+.:::-! 12 Horse hairs ..:,;+.c+:::+i-i 13 Irving and 
~~~~-~· Vanderbilt
r.::-t-:':+':+.=t::::t:--1"!"!.!;: 18 Tied 
"'=+:O.+:::+.':+=i 19 Sticker -=+::-:t:::+.::+=-1 23 Rigid ~~=+=+=-! 24 Bridge position ..::.l:::::.c:.c.:.J.=.J 25 Morsel 
26 "What the Butler Saw" author 27 "Endymion" poet 28 Pitcher feature 29 Ibsen protagonist 30 Cuttlefish 31 Occurrence of note 32 Social rank 34 Sound of contempt 
The Far Side 


COMICS 
. 

Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 


37 Medium's medium 38 Jason's ship 39 Actor Richardson 45 Tarries 46Aroma 47 Pleasurably amusing: Slang 48 Teaching tale 49 Old English bard 
-. 
50 Labor 51 -account 
(not at all) 52 Pone ingredient 53 Diva Ponselle 54 Sacred 1mage 55 Role in "Ariadne 
auf Naxos" 56 Promptly 58 Carmine 59 Randy's skating 
partner 



Buzz McFiattop Mike Muldoon 
/II 11J £1-iPL.!Jf ~[51" 7'0 
/);Lt.OI/ C#(£ agf£...81/T
jQf/EJ.~If 50cJJft..I'JCf';v/r)'"N 
Attr ,Cl.05£ tNt>U&If/!
C#'~, 111£ AOiftJi51'~47iM AXB t£r~.Jt!~ 5Y,<. 
/ 





Hypnotist Extraordinaire! 
Thursday: 
• 
Willy Wonka & GROUP SEMINARS.:: N.D. Boom Lafortune The Chocolate Factory Friday:
Thursday 12:00 On Sports 
Blues Brothers 

• 4:00 On Losing Weiaht Saturday: 
The Gods Must Be Crazy On Academic Excellence Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15, $2
Friday • 12:00 • 4:00 On Overcoming Shyness 
----~------------------­
eeye 16 
ND women 
win opener 
over 'Cats 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team defeated the Northwestern Wildcats last night 75-63 in the squad's season opener. 
After starting sluggishly and having problems in the first half with the Wildcats' half­court trap, the Irish found a few seams in it, leading to many of center Heidi Bunek's 22 points. 

.-Bunek, who shot 9-of-11 from the field, got into foul trouble in the second half but still emerged as the game's high scorer. Bunek's inside game was complemented nicely by the perimeter shooting of guards Karen Robinson and Lisa Kuhns and forward Annie Schwartz. "Yeah, it was an ugly win," said Kuhns, a senior co­captain. "But it was a good chance to evaluate our prog­ress and what we've got to WOrk On." 
The Irish next tip off against Georgetown on Friday at a tounament hosted by the Uni­
versity of Virginia. 

Sports 
Wednesday, November 30, 1988 

The Observer I Scott McCann 

Heidi Bunek (44) cans a short shot against Mexico earlier this year. Bunek and the Irish defeated Northwestern last night In Evanston, Ill. Details of the game appear at left. 
Some thoughts on a plane ride home 
I sit here exhausted, totally, right down to the bone, but I feel exhilarated at the same time. Why? Because in my final col­legiate game of the 1988 season I performed the absolute best that I have ever played in my life. 
What is more gratifying than that is that my contribution was also necessary for the success of our team and the outstanding play of the secondary. I am most pleased with myself because I have improved from game to game. I have even surpassed the expectations of my coaches. To say that I have arrived is prema­ture. However, I have taken steps in the right direction. 

By George Streeter 

What, for me, has been the most gratifying experience of the season? It is the fact that I saw what was necessary for success and sacrificed, beyond measures that I ever thought possible from myself, and worked harder than I have at any other point in my life for any single object in my life. And now, after an eleven-game perfect season, I can say, "George, it all paid off." I can say, "George, you went out with style and class." I can say, "George, at this stage of your life, you have accomplished more of your goals, achieved more of your dreams, and have more to be thankful for than any single individual that you know." It all overwhelms me to the point of tears. 
Am I done? Have I reached the top of the mountaiu? No and yes. No, it's not over yet and yes, the team and I have reached the top of the mountain. However, there are other mountains to climb and also another opponent perched upon the top of this mountain. It is my next mission to surpass this obstacle. 
This, however, is not the time for preparation for the future, but it is a time for reminiscing and rehashing, for being thankful. Thankful that I have had an opportunity to go to a school with such integrity, tradition and outstanding values. To an institution whose influence on my life is surpassed only by God and my parents. To a school, dare I say it, that I love. Yes, love com­pletely. 
I am thankful that I have an opportunity to participate and add--can you imagine that--add to the already rich tradition of Notre Dame and be remembered as an outstanding player on a great team, during a great season. I could not have written a script any better than a season I have been a part of. 
It is always important to take time to smell the roses. I have put off that time at many junctures during the season, at many plateaus on our long mountain climb. I feel it is all too appro­priate, at 11-0, to look back. Look back at the fun, back at the good times, and back at the hard times (there have been no bad times--just difficult ones). 
It is from our past achievements as well as pitfalls that we draw our determination and our internal motivation to succeed. Through hard work I will achieve again. The war is not over though we claim victory in many of the battles. My past assures me that through hard work the best is yet to come. 
Silent Stan just does his job 
Junior cornerback lets his performance do the talking 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Picture the scenario: an un­precedented battle of the un­beatens between the Irish and the Trojans with the Irish ahead 14-7 in Los Angeles, with Southern Cal driving for a tying touchdown in the second quar­ter behind Heisman hopeful 
Rodney Peete. 
Uh-oh, we're in trouble. 
But wait, Trojan flanker John Jackson, while running a route, slips on a timing pattern and Peete throws the ball right into the hands of Stan Smagala, the Irish short-side cornerback, who promptly returns the ball for 64 yards and six points. 

"I was ecstatic," said the 5­11, 186-pound junior from Bur­bank, Ill. "When I scored I couldn't believe it. I was looking at the crowd and think­ing 'this is a dream come true."' 
Smagala's interception return was a major turning point in the game. With USC having just cut the lead in half and driving to score again, the turnover took the wind out of the Trojan's sails and put the Irish ahead 20-7. 
"We were in man-to-man coverage, I had a good break and I had good position on the guy," said Smagala. "I read it pretty well, but the receiver slipped. 
"Rodney Peete threw where the receiver was supposed to be and I happened to be there. It hit me right in the chest." 

"Stan is a pretty quiet guy," said Southall. "It's been a plea­sure for me to play with Stan these last three years. 
"If I were to start a team myself, I would want a Stan Smagala around. He doesn't say that much but leads by ex­ample." 
Senior free safety Corny Southall remembers the im­pact of Smagala's play. 
"That was definitely a 
see SMAGALA, page 13 

Notre Dame script calls for no glitz, just victories 
All the glitter of Hollywood was there in Southern California on Saturday. 
There was everything we had seen on TV and more--the palm trees, the outdoor jacuzzis, the glow-in-the-dark skateboards and the Holly­wood letters overlooking the plush San Fer­nando Valley.
f There were Mickey and Minnie dancing down Main Street USA at Disneyland while Ferraris and Jaguars cruised down Sunset Boulevard. 
Then there were the Southern Californians themselves, singing the praises of their latest Hollywood script--USC's race for a national championship. The leading character was dubbed invincible after shaking off the measles, laryngitis, and defenders to lead his team to the Rose Bowl and a No. 2 ranking. 
Rock in' Rodney led his cast onto the beautiful set, the Los Angeles Coliseum, preparing to rewrite the polls and bring the plot to its entic­ing climax. 
But the Trojans' script somehow didn't sit well with the visitors in the white uniforms. They didn't care much for glitter or fashion, names on jerseys or fancy shoes. 
Eleven opponents have learned that. The Irish care little for looking and acting pretty--all that can happen after the season. All that mat­ters now is scoring the most points on eleven Saturdays, and one Monday--Jan. 2. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

Hollywood scripts mean little on a football field of dirt and grass--the same dirt and grass that ABC cameras caught Rocked Rodney dig­ging out of his helmet after Frank Starns' block­of-the-century. 
Its hard to win the Heisman Trophy flat on your back. The only script that counted was the one in Lou Holtz' game plan in his back pocket. 
That script called for a 55-yard bomb on the first offensive play instead of safely running the ball to acquire some room to operate. 
That script enabled Tony Rice to roll option left and race untouched for a 65-yard touchdown against a defense that shut down the once-unstoppable Oklahoma option attack. 
That script, like the one ..for Miami, puts relentless pressure on one of the nation's best quarterbacks, forcing turnovers to later capi­talize on. 
And that script had speedy defensive backs sticking to USC's sticky-fingered and talented recievers like glue, giving Irish linemen and linebackers the freedom and time to keep Peete in the pocket then show him a little Irish hospitality. 
The doubters are few now--the latest AP poll has the Irish an almost unanimous No. 1. What to many looked like a Universal Studios trick camera, luck-of-the-Irish, it'll-never-last climb to the top is now a date with West Virginia for all the marbles. 
Hollywood can keep its now-meaningless Rose Bowl. Thanks to the Irish, Trojan national title hopes are now just pushing up daisies. 
And Hollywood can't top Notre Dame's script­-a script that has one more act in Tempe, Ariz. Sixty minutes of football, the same kind of "for­get the flashy stuff, let's just get the job done" football that led to 11-0, stands between the Irish and another national championship. 




