

Stormy weather
IACCENT: Donation peace A 40 percent chance of showers today with a high near 
60. A 70 percent chance of showers tonight with a low be­
IVIEWPOINT: Be positive about Lent 
tween 45 and 50. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 111 THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

rf' 
The Indy it ain't 
A mesmerized group of engineers watches as two cars approach the finish line in the pinewood derby on Wednesday. The event is part of Engineers Week, 
Reagan to visit Moscow for talks with Gorbachev 
when even the most dedicated of throats leave their study hutches for fun and daylight. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -President Reagan announced Wednesday he would go to Moscow from May 29 to June 2 for his fourth summit meeting with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and his first visit to a nation he once branded an "evil empire." 
The five-day visit will mark the first trip to Moscow by an American president since Richard Nixon's 1974 summer meeting with Leonid Brezhnev. Later that same year, in No­vember, Gerald Ford met with Brezhnev in the Soviet port city of Vladivostok. 
The summit's intended cen­terpiece was the signing of a 
NO Security campaign: "Saved by the Belt" 
By DEIRDRE FINN Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame Security, in con­junction with the Hoosiers for Safety Belts organization, is sponsoring a campaign to promote the use of safety belts in the University community. 
"The main goal of the cam­paign is to get everyone in the University community to wear his safety belt at all times," said Mike Shreve, a Notre Dame Security officer and one of the organizers of the cam­paign. 
The campaign focuses on the treaty to scrap 30 percent to 50 percent of the superpowers' long-range bombers, missiles and submarines. However, Reagan already has suggested an agreement will not be ready, saying time is too limited. 
Secretary of State George Shultz and Soviet Foreign Min­ister Eduard Shevardnadze re­ported Wednesday night that differences remained between the two sides on the accord. 
The two said in a joint state­ment they would meet again in Moscow on April 21-25 and also in May, but did not indicate where that session would be held. 
"Both sides have worked hard and some progress has 
cause they were wearing their seat belts. 
"We hope that students who are members of the club will encourage other students to wear their seat belts," said As­sistant Director of Security Phil Johnson. 
Security officers are working with state and city police to ac­tively enforce the state law re­quiring front seat passengers to wear safety belts. Drivers on city roads, who are stopped for another traffic violation, may be given a warning or ticket if they are not wearing their seat belt. Safety belt tickets, been realized in a number of areas, but much more needs to be done," the statement said. 
Shevardnadze, asked if a treaty would be ready, said through a translator: "it is pos­sible. This is not an easy task. This is a very complicated task, but we are becoming con­vinced that it is doable." 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the pres­ident would spend all of his time in the Soviet capital, fol­lowing the pattern set by Gor­bachev when he remained in Washington during his December summit with Reagan. However, first lady Nancy Reagan is planning a day trip to Leningrad. 

Buchwald delivers 'Red' Smith lecture 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Art Buchwald, introduced as "the clown prince of American journalism," of­fered a variety of humorous insights on American politics and society during the 1988 Red Smith Lecture in Journalism at Washington Hall Wednesday night. 
Buchwald, currently a syndicated columnist for the Los Angeles Times, appears in over 500 newspapers in the 
U.S. and abroad. 

"It is no accident that after you had the president of the United States speak to you two weeks ago, that the Red Smith lecture series would ask a humorist to tell you what he said," Buch­wald started his speech, 

Strasen awarded 'Red' Smith scholarship 
By REGIS COCCIA News Editor 
The winner of a memorial scholarship honoring Notre Dame alumnus and legendary sportswriter Red Smith was announced Wednes­day. 
Martin Strasen, a junior American studies major, became the 1988 recipient of the"Red''Smith Writing Scholarship. He is the first winner who is also an ac­complished sportswriter. 
Strasen, who currently serves as sports editor of bringing the first of many outbursts of laughter throughout the lecture. 
Ronald Reagan was a common target for Buch­wald's humor during the lec­ture. 
"I worship the very quick­sand he walks on," Buch­wald said. "Reagan's greatest feat is to make the country feel good about things that are bad." 
Mter reciting the Gipper's deathbed scene from "Knute Rockne-All American," Buchwald told the audience "I have good news for you, the Gipper isn't dead. He's alive and well and taking a nap during dinner at the White House." 
Buchwald poked fun at the 
see RED, page 4 
The Observer, was nominated by faculty in the department of American studies, said American studies Professor Robert Schmuhl. 
The scholarship was es­tablished five years ago by the family of Walter Wel­lesley "Red" Smith and is presented annually to a student who demonstrates excellence in undergradu­ate writing, Schmuhl said. 
Recipients for the schol­arship are selected by four faculty members in the American studies depart-
see AWARD, page 5 
Next 

Saved by the Belt Club, whose however, will not be given on 
Christy Wolfe, Julie Parrish and Lisa Hill, newly terview a potential commissioner for a board. Inter­
members have all been in car accidents and were saved be-see BELTS, page 5 elected Saint Mary's student government heads in-viewing will be completed today. 
--·--~ 

----~------·---------~----------­
Thursday, March 24, 1988
page 2 The Observer 


Of Interest 
"The Best Man" a political satire by Gore Vidal, opens tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:30 
p.m. Cavanaugh hall productions will also perform the show Friday and Saturday evenings at 7:30. Admission is free, but donations will be taken for the Andy Sowder Fund. -The Observer 
"Religion and the Founders" is the title of a lecture to be presented by Professor Thomas Pangle of the department of political science of the University of Toronto. The lecture will be today in Room 112 of the Law School. -The Observer 
'Rites of Spring' readings of poetry and musical performances will be sponsored by The American Institute of Architecture Students and the Juggler. Any students or faculty wishing to contribute are encouraged to arrive with readings or instrument in hand. The event will take place today at 4 p.m. in the Architecture Building. -The Observer 
Chicago artist Karl Wirsum will present a slide lecture today at 7:30p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. It will be followed by a reception. A selection of Wirsum's works will be displayed in the Snite Museum until March 
28. -The Observer 
Engineers'WeekcontinueswithTheoreticalThursday. Today's events are the traditional favorite spectator sport, the Calcula~or Toss, at 2:30 p.m. on the Cushing Quad, and the Datmg Game at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Student Center. -The Observer 
ROTC Cadet Commanders will be on WVFI-AM 6400's Campus Perspectives from 10 to 11 p.m today. Navy's MIDN CAPT Bob Costello, Army's CCol Dave Con­dron will be special guests. Call239-6400 with any questions or comments. Hosted by Chris Shank. -The Observer 
Anti-Apartheid Network will present the film "Asinimali--We Have No Money" tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. This South African play ran in Johannesburg until it was banned during the current state of emergency. The drama gives insight into life for blacks under apartheid. -The Observer 
The Catholic Alumni Club of South Bend is hosting a reception at the University Club tonight from 7 to 9. For single faculty, staff, graduate students, and seniors. -The Observer 
"Logic and Infinity" is the title of a lecture by Raymond Smullyan, Ewing professor of philosophy at In­diana University at Bloomington, that will be given today at 8 p.m. in Room 204 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
Visions 3, the third number of the English department sponsored student fiction magazine, is soliciting manuscripts for its 1988 edition. Please submit two copies (with the author's name on a removable first page) to the English department office in 356 O'Shaughnessy, by Mon­day, March 28 at 4 p.m. Any questions can be directed to Professor William O'Rourke in the department of English, 239-7377. -The Observer 
The Senior Wine Tasting class is today at 6:30 
p.m. in the Senior/Alumni club. Sign-up in the senior class office between 3 and 5 p.m. Limited to the first 50 people. 
-The Observer 
Career and Placement will be sponsoring an information session on hospital administration as a career. Lawrence Duncan, an '86 Notre Dame graduate and a graduate student in hospital administration at Rush Uni­versity of Chicago, will lead the discussion. The event will be today at4:15 p.m. in the Conference Room ofthe Career and Placement Services. -The Observer 
Auditions for "Gangsters" will be held today at 7 p.m. in the lab theatre of Washington Hall. There are three roles available for both black and white actors. No experience necessary.-The Observer 
Anyone interested in being involved with student government for the 1988-89 year, can pick up an application on the second floor of LaFortune and return it completed by 5 p.m. today. For more information call Tom at-283-1786 or Mike at 271-0767. -The Observer 

Design Editor .................. Lisa Tugman Sports Copy Editor........ Steve Megargee Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kim Evans Viewpoint Copy Editor . Brian Broderick Typesetters.... . ............ Mike Buc Viewpoint Layout... . .... John Hancock ........................................ Mark Derwent Typist . . . . ....... Wendy Burek ............................................ Smed Laboe ND Day Editor .. ............. Carrie McCall News Editor... . ... Mark McLaughlin SMC Day Editor . Joanna Grillo Copy Editor.. . ... Greg Lucas Photographer ........... Stacy St Germaine 
Tille Qlleener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duri111 exam and vacation periods. Tille OIIMner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas· cd for S40 per year (Sl5 per semester) by writilll Tille ObMner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46H6. 
Tille Qlleener is a member of Tille ~led Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
New Jersey life is 

quite an experience 
The Indiana license plate on my car says to 
Mark
go "Back Home Again." Well, over break I did. Back home to New Jersey. 
Mclaughlin


Many people indiscriminately rag on New Jer­sey. Phrases like "armpit ofthe nation," "toxic 
News Editor
wasteland," and "what exit do you live on?" • come up often in connection with the place. Most ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ people who rag on the place haven't even been there, or else never saw anything besides the Jersey Turnpike. That shows how much they know. 
People in Jersey are different. We are packed into less space than any other state in America, and are squashed between New York and Philadelphia besides. Millions of New Yorkers come and leave their garbage on our beaches and their money in our casinos. It's a busy place, New Jersey is. . 
Most people in the state have a get-it-done­yesterday attitude. They have to to survive. More people means higher prices, more com­petition for jobs, more crime. It also means more bars and more parties. 
Growing up in New Jersey definitely affects kids. They grow up faster. My little brother is in seventh grade, and has already gone through a girlfriend or two. He knows all about cursing, sex and illegal drugs. We won't mention what my little sister knows since my folks read this column. They worried about paying the rent and bowling 

Junior high school kids in other states think nights and scoring on dates. They looked at me shooting BB guns at traffic signs is neat. In as a foreigner, not with malice or resentment Jersey, kids think sex and alcohol are neat. We just as someone different because I'd gone "out had a drug bust at my junior high school once. west" to school. The police arrested and booked 54 students. Our Sometimes I think they're right. They'reschool was supposed to be one of the cleaner happy without trying to get a degree and make ones. money and be successful. They simply make 
I'm not sure quite why Jersey does that to the best of a hard place to live. kids. Maybe it's the constant stream of violence There's a place very near Keansburg called on the local news. "Murder, death, rape, fire. the Spy House. It's a holdover from the Revolu­Details at 11." tionary War days when patriots used the place 
Maybe it's just the dense population. Twenty to spy on the harbors of New York. It stands million people live within fifty miles of New right on the beach. If you go there at night, youYork City, many of them in the Jersey suburbs can see the homes and bars and lives of millions and in Newark and Jersey City. It's crowded of people lit up on the shore. The water glowsand hot in the summer. orange from the light (you can read a book by
Most people there seem to thrive on it, though. the light thrown off by the suburbs and New People move to Florida and move back six York City). The Verrazano Narrows Bridgemonths later. It doesn't even occur to most stretches across the river in front of the towers people to leave. Out of a graduating class of of the city. 476, I am currently the farthest west. Many It uncannily resembles the gates to Hell. graduates simply found jobs and apartments New Jersey is very much like that on the and live-in boyfriends and girlfriends. edge of Hell. It's something that change~ people
I went back to work this break at Domino's for the better, though. Living there teaches you
in Keansburg, a shore town complete with seedy a lot about people. boardwalk and rundown bungalows. It struck I wouldn't give it up. I don't think I could me what different lives my co-workers led. anyway. 
The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent.
Think 

If yQu have any, CQme tQ Qur Qfflces and start wQrklng Qn yQur newspaper.

of your best friend. FOREIGN GRADUATE Now, 
STUDENTS think 
OPPORTUNITIES TO EARN EXTRA INCOME 


of your best friend 

American Companies need your skills and know-how in dealing with foreign marketing

dead. 

strategies, import/export regulations, etc. 
Doo't drivedrunk. 

Our clients have full and part-time consulting 
Reader's Digest 
positions for University graduates with foreign backgrounds who are willing to help encourage American trade and investment efforts back home.
"IF SPECIAL PROSECUTORS are here to stay, then let us establish a blue­ribbon trio, perhaps of retired 

If interested in helping America build new trade 
jurists of high repute, to investigate 

bridges, send your updated resume to :
the Wright-Coelho end of Pennsyl­vania Avenue, as well as the Meese end. This would ensure that, so 

Swenson, Crawford & Paine
long as the executive and the legis­lative are locked 

Executive Search Division
For free copy of th
in a war of all 

current issue of Na 
P.O. Box A-3629 
Ilona/ Re11iew write t
against all, both 


Dept. UNIV. ISO Eas
will be armed." 

35th Street. Ne 
Chicago, IL 60690 
Thursday, March 24, 1988 The Observer page 3 

Noriega attempts to expel 
U.S. economic adviser 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama­
A U.S. diplomat was given 48 hours to leave Panama on Wed­nesday, the third day of a gen­eral strike that has virtually shut down the country but has not loosened Gen. Manuel Noriega's grip on power. 
David Miller, an economics counselor, was the second American diplomat ordered out by the Foreign Ministry, which gave no reason for its decision. 
In Washington, the State De­partment said Wednesday night it would ignore the order because the United States con­siders the government that issued it illegitimate. It gave the same reason for rejecting the previous order against Terence Kneebone, head of the 
U.S. Information Service in Panama, who remains in the country. 
Panama is out of cash be­cause Washington cut off the supply of U.S. dollars, the Panamanian national cur­rency, in its effort to drive Noriega into exile. Federal grand juries in Florida indicted Noriega last month on nar-

The Observer I Stacy St. Germaine
A bit of drilling 

John Mosier, a Notre Dame actor shows that today's thespians must be multitalented. "On the Verge" will be performed Saint Mary's today 
Sophomores, 
Juniors, & 
I


Seniors 

In Engineering, Physics, Chemistry and Math. 
( ......._, ___ _ 
;-----­
Earn Over $1200A Month While Still In School! 
It's part of the Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Pro­gram. And the money you can earnwhilestill in school is just the beginning! 
After graduation, you will receive graduate level training valued at $30,000 and begin work as a technical manager with im­mediate authority and responsibility. This is the only program of its kind in the world. 

To qualify you must be between the ages of nineteen and 
twenty-six, be in good health and meet stringent academic 
requirements. 
A Navy Engineering Programs Specialist 
will be on campus March 2s, 1988 
Make an apPJint:Irent 3.._ the Career & Placement SVc. 
For more information call toll-free 
1-800 527-8836 

'-----Lead the Adventure ____J 
cotics and money laundering charges. 
Some opposition leaders were frustrated Wednesday that the general strike had not loosened Noriega's grip on the bankrupt nation. 
"We're well aware of the sit­uation, that Gen. Noriega ap­pears unmoved by all the human suffering," Jose Mulino, an attorney, said at a news con­ference. "We'll be considering new strategies. I'm not sure what it will take," Mulino said. 
Mulino is prominent in the National Civic Crusade, an al­liance of about 200 profes­sional, business, labor and other groups formed last June to lead the campaign against Noriega. 
He and other opposition leaders vowed to continue the strike. 
through Sunday. 

Saint Mary's College Department of Communication &Theatre presents 
direcHon and producHon design March 24th thru 27th at 8 pm 
ROBERT GRAHAM SMALL 

Haggar Po~or/Saint Mary's College 
lit ·­
Saint Mar)''s Coli~~ 
NOTRE DAME I NOlANA 

Economy expanding; prices show slight rise 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The gov­ernment delivered two wel­come pieces of economic news on Wednesday: consumer prices rose just 0.2 percent in February and the economy in late 1987 expanded at the liveliest pace in nearly two years. 
Falling energy and food prices in February helped restrain the rise in the Labor Department's Consumer Price Index after a 0.3 percent in­crease in January. 
For the first two months of the year, prices increased at an annual rate of 3.2 percent ­much better than last year's moderate 4.4 percent inflation. 
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said the U.S. economy grew at a brisk 4.8 percent annual pace in the final three months of last year. It was the second upward revision in the fourth-quarter GNP, estimated a month ago at 4.5 percent and _in January at 4.2 percent. 
The department said better­than-expected performance in exports, consumer spending and business investment led to the latest revision, which pushed growth for the year to a rate of 4 percent, compared with 2.2 percent growth in 1986. It was the biggest annual in­crease since a 5.1 percent rise in 1984. 
The 4.8 percent fourth quar­ter growth followed a 4.3 per­cent growth in the July­September quarter and was the fastest quarterly growth rate since an increase of 5.4 percent in the first three months of 1986. 
Recent economic reports have shown ~m economy that rebounded quickly from last October's stock market col­lapse. Analysts see little likelihood of an election-year recession. 


CAMP WINADO for Boys 5 Glen Lane. Mamaroneck. NY 10543 (914) 381-5983  
Now staffing for the 1988 summer season. Positions are available for summer counselors who love children and have strong skills and ability to teach 1 or more of the following activities: Archery Lacrosse Swimming Arts & Crafts Photography Tennis Baseball Piano Track Basketball Pioneering Volleyball Bicycling Rocketry Water skiing Computer Science Ropes course Weight training Dramatics Sailing Wind surfing Field Soccer Wood working General Counselors Support staff Yearbook Guitar Hockey High Salary, Room, Board, Laundry, and Travel Allowances Full 8 week season. Drop by for an interview TODAY at Room 108 LaFortune between 9 a.m. & 5p.m.  


Thursday, March 24, 1988
The Observer 

The Observelf Stacy St. Germaine
A little spring air 

Random Indiana truck check finds serious safety defects 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-A random check of trucks traveling Hoosier interstates last week showed that 42 percent had serious safety defects, the Indiana State Police said Wednesday. 
Inspectors at eight checkpoints last Thursday looked at 647 trucks and or­dered 270 out of service until defects were corrected, according to Sgt. Guy Boruff of the state police motor carrier division. 
Missing or defective front brakes ac­counted for 44 of the out-of-service cita­tions, Boruff said. 
The other top categories of serious 
violations involved inoperative lights 
and defective tires, Boruff said. 
Inspectors spotted nearly 2,500 viola­tions, or an average of almost four for every truck inspected, Boruff said. Trucks with less serious violations weren't ordered out of service. 
"We're concerned as a state agency," Boruff said of the survey fin­dings. "But we do feel our inspection program is having an impact." 
The 42 percent figure was up from October, when the last random inspec­tion was conducted at the request of the Federal Highway Administration. 
Some 31 percent of trucks inspected last fall were ordered out of service, Boruff said. The increase in this round of inspections could be attributed to more inspectors on the job and better training of what to look for, said Boruff. 
The Notre Dame Concert Band performed their annual Spring Concert in the Joyce Athletic 
and Convocation Center on Wednesday. 
Red 
continued from page 1 
officials in Reagan's ad­minstration who said the Iran­Contra scandal was to help "moderate Iranians." 
"In case you are wondering what a moderate Iranian is, it's an Iranian who has run out of ammunition," Buchwald ex­plained. 
Reagan will also go down in history as "the Great Com­municator, even though he keeps getting his facts wrong," he added. 
Buchwald had targets other than Reagan to attack with his satirical barbs. 
An economist "is someone who will tell you 1,000 ways how to make love, but doesn't know any women," he said. 
Buchwald told of an Amtrak adminstrator who was so de­pressed over cuts in his budget that he lay down on the train tracks between Washington, 
D.C. and Philadelphia and waited for a train to run him over. 
"Fourteen hours later, he got hungry and decided to go home," he said. 
The trade deficit could be 
taken  care  of  by  "making  
every  Japanese  businessman  
go  to  the  Harvard  Business  

School, so they'll be as screwed up as we are," Buchwald said. 
Some items in the news are so bizarre Buchwald admitted even he couldn't make them up. 
As an example, Buchwald told of the Sultan of Brunei who believed he was giving $10 mil­lion dollars to the contras. Ollie North gave the sultan a Swiss bank account number that was wrong and the money ended up 
in  the  account  of  a  Swiss  
gentleman  who  spent  the  
money.  

"When asked why he spent it (the money), he said, 'I thought it was mine.' I could not make that up," Buchwald said. 
"Then you take the Jimmy Swaggart story," Buchwald continued. "I made that up." 
Buchwald also elicited laughs from the audience at the expense of Notre Dame. 
Buchwald had asked Notre Dame to send some informa­tion about the campus before his lecture. The University complied by sending a book on undergraduate courses and the decidedly larger football press guide. 
Buchwald also noted how on previous trips to Notre Dame, people who asked him if he liked the campus became dis­appointed when he answered "fine." 


ND '61""

ironwood wine and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors (219) 272-7144 
1725 North Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635...,1 
**ALL NOTRE DAME CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS** 
Registration materials are now available for you to: 
1. 
REGISTER for the 1988-89 ACADEMIC YEAR-­Registration is MANDATORY to be an officially recognized organization on campus. 

2. 
APPLY FOR FUNDING. 

3. 
APPLY FOR FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND. 

4. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT table registration. 


DEADLINE FOR REGISTERING YOUR ORGANIZATION IS: FRIDAY, APRIL 8 BY 4:00P.M. pick up packets in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune Student Center 
J. Philip Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics 

'Being a Christian Physician Today~' 
Edmund D. Pellegrino, M.D. Director, Kennedy Institute of Ethics Georgetown University 
Auditorium Continuing Education Center Friday, March 25 
4:15 p.m. 
Dr. Pellegrino js currently Director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics at Georgetown University. He was formerly President of the Catholic University of America and President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Yale-New Haven Medical Center. He is one of the most influential contributors to recent discussions of medical ethics. Among his many writings are Humanism and the Physician (University of Tennessee Press, 1979), A Philosophical Basis of Medical Practice (Oxford University Press, 1981 ), and For the Patient's Good (Oxford University Press, 1988). 
~AMERICAN 
CANCER 

, SOCIETY~ 
Gl.ND/SMC SPRING SPEAKER SERIES 
PETER M. NARJJI J
( Pro tenor of Soclolog 
_ Pllzar College, Collforn~o 
Sl'EAJCING ON 

"HOMOPHOBIA" 
7 PM--(SUNDRY) MARCH 27, 19B8 GRLUIN LIFE SCIENCE BLDG. AUDITORIUM, NOTRE DAME UNIUERSITY 
Sponsored by GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAME/ST. MARY'S COLLEGE P.O. BOH 194 NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
Thursday, March 24, 19BB __________________.:T:...:.h:..:e:....O:::..=:bs::::e::.:.rv..:..:e::::r________________________...Jp~a::Jg2::e:......::::5 

Pole sitter will end stand after record falls 

THE CONTEMPORARY CHURCH: 
latin America and The United States 
~ ;. \ I
"~ 
··~ 
/ // 

said Wednesday. "But it all Mauri Sanders, who broke a Part of her evening was to be "He's great. He's been just
Associated Press 
boils down to a lot of prob­similar pole-sitting record in spent preparing a speech for great," Miss Sanders said, add­INDIANAPOLIS -Mellissa lems." 211 days in 1959, said her today's festivities. ing that she would share her Sanders, who has earned about Sanders, who has spent more daughter was riding high as she The teen-ager's fiance, Keith first post-pole dinner with 
than 500 days aloft, three­entered the final day of an ad­Seal, was on hand Wednesday Seals.
$10,000 for cancer research and 
claimed a pole-sitting world stories high above a southside venture that has been an emo­afternoon, helping Miss Mrs. Sanders said her record, said Wednesday that intersection, said she was dis­tional roller coaster. Sanders prepare for her des­daughter will face certain un­she will carry some regrets appointed to have fallen far ''Mellissa is running on sheer cent. The two met after the 24-expected challenges when she with her when she descends short of her initial goal, to raise adrenaline at this point," said year-old California man read returns to terra firma. from her perch today. $100,000 for cancer research. Mrs. Sanders. an article about Miss Sanders 
"I'm going to miss the birds "I wish things were different, Miss Sanders said she and decided to contact her by "For one thing I'm going to on my balcony and the crazy but stuff happens," Sanders planned to spend her last night phone. They announced their have to sue for slander and drivers going by down below," said sighing. "I'm just going to in the 42-square-foot shack atop engagement in August, before defamation of character," said 
the 19-year-old Arizona native take it day by day." telephone poles with friends. ever having met. Mrs. Sanders. 
A considerable monetary scholarship accompanies the

Award 
award, Schmuhl said, but 
continued from page 1 
added he did not know the exact ment, he said, adding that can­amount. didates are nominated by the individual faculty members. "I was shocked," Strasen 
Scholarship winners are cho­said. "Professor Schmuhl and 
sen on the basis of grade point Professor (John) Powers both average, financial need and nominated me." Strasen said samples of their writing sub­the formal announcement was mitted by faculty, said made Wednesday at a dinner
\,."  
.  
~g; ~  '· eish~p Luciano Mendes de Areida  
~  ""  President. Brazilian Conference  
"" of Catholic Bishops , ',  ,I  III  

Schmuhl. 
in the Morris Inn. 
COME TO 
NEW HAMPSHIRE FOR THE SUMMER 
Camp Counselor Positions Available at Outstanding Sports Camps Camp Winaukee for Boys and Robindel for Girls 
One mile apart on 22 mile lake, near "On Golden Pond" site and the Maine coast. Good salaries and all transportation paid. Seek qualified specialists in all areas. 
Personal interviews available at LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
11 AM TO 4 PM-THURSDAY, MARCH 24 CALL COLLECT (215) 663-0366 

Belts 
continued from page 1 

inner campus roads, Johnson said. 
"Many of the students think that it's not necessary to wear their seat belts because they don't leave campus or go very far from campus, but it's a nec­essary precaution," said Shreve. 
"Our main concern is with the safety of drivers and their passengers, not with giving tickets," said Shreve. 
The university had a similar campaign following the institu­tion of the state law last July. 
"We felt this was an appro­priate time to emphasize the issue again since there are more students at school now and a lot of them will be travel­ing this spring," said Johnson. 
"If we could save one life with this campaign, it would be worth it," said Shreve. 



SOPHOMORES 
so 

Toga Party I Sibs Weekend '88 last two days to sign up ! TOGA PARTY : Saturday, March 26th 9:30-2:00 with Zeto god the Heqt-Ons and a D.). 
transportation to the Indiana Club provided * price has been changed to: $8 per couple , $5 single SIBS WEEKEND: STOP BY SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICE TO SIGN UP. Thursday 2:30-4:30 FOR BOTH EVENTS: Come to the 2nd Floor Friday 1:00-2:30 of LaFortune to sign up and purchase tickets. & 4:30-6:30  

Viewpoint
page 6 Thursday, March 24, 1988 
Cherish friendship during Lent 
We all ask far too little of God, and we forget that friendship is a two-way street. But this thing we call "religion," our Catholic faith, is and must be about friendship with God, or it is about noth­ing at all. 
Thomas D'Andrea 
guest column 

Perhaps the time we are farthest from realizing this is during the season of Lent. Lent, after all, has its demands­-more religious obligations. So, if we have some vague sense of the meaning and purpose of Lent, we grit our teeth and give up a few things. The spirit with which we do this is far from ex­emplary. It is as if Lent brought with it a new burden, one added to our weekly chore of having to shuffle off to Mass on Sundays. Of course this is en­tirely the wrong picture of the forty days, but we have to understand, we must understand, what is wrong with it. We must understand why this dim view of Lent is a product of our own dimness, dullness and self-absorption, and not the characteristic of an other­wise splendid season. 
Lent, we have heard, is a time for conversion of the heart. If this is true, there is at least one startling conse­quence that follows from it. God, that Being who created us, even, out of a very peculiar love, enfleshed Himself and occupied our frankly small portion of reality (and hammered nails, and payed taxes, and died, we mustn't for­get, a frightful and humiliating death for our eternal well-being) does not want mere external sacrifices during Lent. The worth of a gift, after all, is not strictly equivalent to the difficulty one has in giving it; a gift is not to be prized solely or even primarily to the degree it inconveniences its giver. Un­doubtedly, a gift's true worth has some­thing to do with the sentiment, the in­tention, with which it is given. (The tired old "It's the thought that counts" suggests this.) 
So during Lent God wants more of what is on the inside--more real affec­tion, or if that sounds too sentimental, more real friendship. He wants more of the heart and less going-through-the­motions-to-avoid-guilt attention. God, after all, matters much more than our excessively self-directed concerns. If we miss the opportunity to grow in friendship with our Creator during the season of Lent we alone are to blame. 
How then can we strengthen that friendship in the two remaining weeks before Easter? I've heard of a practice common but a generation or two ago that could be just the thing to redeem an otherwise unspectacular (i.e. not be­cause unnoticed but because lifeless) Lent. At Notre Dame we are blessed with, among other things, more taber­nacles per square foot (per acre?) than probably anywhere. Now it is one of the shocking truths of our faith that Christ, fully God, fully man, resides, as man and as God, with soul and body, in each of the tabernacles where there is a con­secrated host (an amazing friend this infinite, all-powerful being who limits Himself so). 
It used to be that in the course of entering or leaving one's dorm during the day one would stop by the chapel and acknowledge God's presence (no small thing)--perhaps converse a bit (true friends are never lacking in topics of conversation), at no less thank Him for that tremendous love which loved us into existence, loves us through time and loves us, hopefully, to complete happiness in the beyond. Is such a prac­tice too ambitious for us? Are we so lacking in courage that we are in­capable of doing this? Are we not too busy? But surely once a day, one time leaving the dorm and once in entering, would not be too much for us. 
What a great resolution with which to end Lent! God will be happy--He will have won a bit of our hearts; we will be happy, having overcome self­inflicted formalism and engaged in something interior and authentic and eminently manageable, and Lent won't be such a gloomy affair after all. Who knows what good things might come out of such spontaneous trafficking of friends (an all-powerful being is a good friend to have) ... ? 
Besides, a heart is a terrible thing to waste (on oneself). 
Thomas D. D'Andrea is a gradu1.te stu­dent. 

\ P.O. Box Q 
powerless--not to mention those who investing the University's endowment. donors' money wisely. People do notPax Christi wish to see us survive into the next The point of having a large endowment, give money to Notre Dame for it to be millennium--we say thanks. of course, is to allow the University to lost in South Mrica. 
expresses thanks Thomas M. Esch, C.S.C. attract betteF faculty, build better So when it comes right down to it, the Pax Christi-Notre Dame facilities and keep tuition affordable. It only reason the University still has in­Dear Editor: March 20, 198P follows that the endowment must be in­vestments in South Mrica is that they We wish to publicly thank all who vested both safely and as profitably as are profitable. And when they become helped us with our demonstration Wed­possible. The only reason the Univer­unprofitable, you may be certain that nesday, Mar. 9, at the Joyce ACC. We NO investments sity has South African stocks in its the University will divest. In the mean­especially thank Rex Rakow, Director portfolio is because they are time, Williams has one thing right when of Notre Dame Security; John Goldrick, ignore apartheid (relatively) safe and profitable. he says that "we can all agree that Associate Vice-President of Student M­If the University were really follow­apartheid is evil." Given his meagerfairs; and University President Father Dear Editor: ing the policy outlined by Father Wil­talent in logic, it is no surprise that he Edward Malloy for their support and It is entirely unproductive to require liams, it would be increasing its South cannot make the inference that Notre approval. We also wish to thank The business students to take a grueling African holdings in order to be in a bet­Dame is profiting directly from evil. If Observer for both running the five ar­course in informal logic, if their pro­ter position to "overcome the evil." It the administration holds our Christian ticles on various issues before the fessors are to go about spouting the is not doing that, of course, since in­values as dearly as it says, it should Reagan visit and demonstrating profes­most outrageous nonsense. vestments in South Africa are neither renounce the tainted gold of P.W. sionalism in other articles. With its help Consider the comments of Father safe enough nor profitable enough to Botha's racist regime and divest now. and the work of many others, we were Oliver Williams, Associate Provost and justify further holdings than the Uni­Brian Rosmaita able to sound a clear message of protest management professor, concerning the versity now has. Off-campus to several Reagan admistration divestment of Notre Dame's holdings Given that the University has a re­March 2, 1988 
policieo;. We feel the action was ex­in South Mrica: "When you're in an sponsibility not to throw away endow­ecuted in an orderly and constructive evil situation, and you think you can ment money on bad investments, it is manner and such efforts were the result make it better and overcome the evil, clear that when South Mrican invest­of good communication and coopera­you should stay in there and do it... if ments become either unsafe or un­tion. Finally we thank the entire stu­you simply pull out, you have no profitable, the University will divest it­dent body for being tolerant of our in­leverage to make things better." self of them. Williams' pious mouthings terpretation of the Christian gospel. On While this is a laudable sentiment, it about maintaining "leverage" are behalf of Pax Christi-USA and all who is completely inconsistent with the simply inconsistent with the prior obli­have special concern for the poor and fiduciary responsibility associated with gation which the University has to use 
The Observer welcomes your letters and columns. Please address them to The Observer, PO Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

Doonesbury 
r 
r 
toR!J ZONKER, AS YOU «Je1..L KNOW, I 8e/..18V& THAT 
NOB!UTY lf)()K5 AFTER ITS

l 0/AJN. MY HOuse !A/IlL AL­
• P.IAY5 88 YOURS... \ 
7HANK5, 
_..__,...... /)(}KJ31 ~.......,4.._ 

=N:=n'~/ 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"The rule in carving holds good as to criticism; never 
cut  with  a  knife  what  yo u  
can  cut wit h  a spoon."  
Charles  Buxton  


... 8lfT THAT BEING 5AID, SIR, Y(){) /A/ANT /A/a..L ... NO, NO, I MU5T AW 7HA7A G&NTL£­M&70 TAI<E I KNOWHOW MAN !XJ&S NOT IJStAN07118R 8ACKTH& HARJ) YOU'Vf3. GWTIBMN~ CHARG8 AC­JAG,/5 tu0RJ<&I) TO 
Cf)()NT5!---......_ THAT IF BRCAI<IT IN. 
I " 
Editorial Board Operations Board


Ibe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief.. . ......... Chris Murphy Business Manager. ......... ....... .. . ....... John Ox rider Managing Editor ............... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager . ................ Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
News Editor.... . ................................ Regis Coccia Advertising Manager ................ Linda Goldschmidt News Editor... .. ... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ..................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor.............. . . , ........ Matt Slaughter Systems Manager .............. ........... Mark Ridgeway

The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor... ...... .. .. ... . . ............... Marty Strasen Controller... Todd Hardiman

Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor ... .................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager.. ..................... Marga Bruns

the administration of either institution. The News is repo~ as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Photo Editor... .. ............................ Michael Moran 1s available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. Founded November 3,1966 



Accent -·­
Thursday, March 24, 1988 page 7 
Lowe plummets with 'Pinker' 
KEVIN WALSH accent writer 

N 
lck Lowe has always been sort of a confusing dude. What Is he? He's put out a few great albums. He's written a few great songs. He's a recog­nized producer and a com­petent bassist. He's not a real college radio favorite. He's not a critical favorite anymore. Not since "Cruel To Be Kind" has he had any real popularity. 
The music doesn't help mat­ters either. In one album, It can be country, rock and roll, reggae, garage, or blues. You name it. His songs are, by turn, deathly serious and overly goofy. Who is this guy? 
Well, unfortunately the answers aren't found on "Pinker And Prouder Than Pre­vious." Even the title makes no sense. It is his first album in almost three years and the seventh in his spotty career. His last effort "Rose of En­gland," was one of the under­appreciated gems of 1985. Here, he just sounds confused. 
It Immediately struck me as a real disjointed album, and one glance at the back sleeve reveals that all these songs 
were recorded in either London 
or Austin, Texas, between 
spring of 1986 and early 1987. 
I don't know why he waited so 
long to put It out unless he 
realized how scattered it was 
and was waiting for some 
Divine Inspiration that never 
came. 
Only five of the eleven songs here are "pure" Lowe. Two are co-written, and the other four are covers of other people's songs. Lowe has always had great taste in other people's songs, and this album Is no exception. This Is the first Lowe album I've ever heard where the covers blow away Nick's originals. 
The first song he covers Is the fourth song on the album. It Is undoubtedly the album's only transcendent moment. The song Is "Love Gets Strange," written by John Hiatt whose "She Don't Love Nobody" stood out on Lowe's last album and whose own latest album, "Bring The Fam­Ily" (on which Lowe plays), is still drawing critical praise. "Love Gets Strange" Is a mid­tempo workout featuring Hiatt's own great rhythm guitar work. It has lines like, "This love Is like a wrestling match," and 

"There ain't no window 
open...and there is no door to 
get out of before this love gets 
strange." For the first time one 
the album, Lowe sounds com­
fortable. Unfortunately, it 
doesn't last long. 
The other cover songs range from Graham Parker's sleek "Black Lincoln Continental," a sort of bubble-gum punk shout to Lawton Williams' simple country skiftle "Geisha Girl" and finally to the last song "Big Big Love" which sounds like the songs Lowe used to write. Corny, but with a knowing wink and a shrug. 
The real Lowe songs sound almost unfalteringly like some­body else's. On both "Crying In My Sleep" and "I Got The Love," Lowe's ugly Everly! Brot­hers obsession rears Its white little head. Nick might have been better served by just handing these two over to the real Phil and Don. 
"Lover's Jamboree," which was co-written with AOR won­derboy wanna-be Paul Carrack. sounds like every song Dave Edmunds has ever written and, of course, there's ol' Dave guest-producing this one. Yawn. 

Other songs range from failed jokes ("Big Hair") to decent, yet muddled attempts at roadhouse blues ("(You're My) Wildest Dream"). 
On only two of his own songs does Lowe show what he's capable of. The first Is "Cry It Out." a lilting. reggaetountry fusion that sounds like the "White Album" era Paul McCartney turned on to Bob Marley. It works purely on the basis of its lyrical and musical simplicity. The other song that shows Lowe worth his proverbial salt is "Wishing Well." Opening with a gnashing reverb guitar line and joined by "The Men They Couldn't Hang." Lowe rises to the occasion In a song about a guy who wishes he left his girl where he found her, "down by the wishing well" where "her perfume, like a promise, stole my reason." He needs more like these. 
Overall, this album is really disappointing. Lowe Is already sinking sadly Into the bottom­less bargain bin In the sky and, though "Pinker and Prouder Than Previous" shows that he can still pull It off when he wants to, It does nothing to brake that descent. 

Gift for center devoted to peace 
Associated Press  Reves, however, was critical of  The Reves gift will endow vir­ "This endowment provides a  According to Bill, a very basic  
both the League of Nations and  tually all of the activities of  gigantic and generous boost to  way of promoting International  
The widow of a man whose  the United Nations, which he  William and Mary's Center for In­ our program," said Bill. "Our  problem-solving Is through the  
dream was world peace has  believed were unequal to the task  ternational Studies. It will be  concerns in international studies  study offoreign languages. "Wil­ 
found a way to further his Ideas  of keeping the peace.  used to establish a distinguished  are basic; they deal with survival.  liam and Mary already has the  
more than 40 years after his In­ visiting scholar-In-residence pro­ We're Interested in studying whe­ foundation of a strong Interna­ 
ternational best seller on the  "It may be time to go back and  gram and to fund academic con­ ther violent conflict is Inevitable  tional studies program because  
subject was published.  look at Reves' Ideas," said Bill.  ferences and research, libraryac­ to mankind," he said. "We're con­ of Its longstanding emphasis on  
Wendy Reves, a native ofTexas  "Perhaps we should re-examine  quisitions, multimedia  cerned with the issues of war,  foreign language study," he said.  
now living In France, has  his perceptive diagnosis and  resources, and scholarships.  peace, world order, International  The Center for International  
honored her late husband,  then work from there. With nu­ The endowment will also be used  justice, and U.S. foreign policy.  Studies serves as a coordinating  
Emery Reves, by committing $3  clear arsenals ever-present the  to establish a peace prize recog­ International studies are de­ office for William and Mary  
million to endow the Center for  stakes Involved In this enterprise  nizing an individual who em­ signed to enable us to confront  undergraduates maJoring In In­ 
International Studies at the Col­ could be no less than human sur­ bodies Reves' commitment to in­ sensitively and realistically these  ternational studies; this Includes  
lege of William and Mary to In­ vival."  ternational peace.  kinds of problems."  East Asian, Latin American, and  
Soviet-Russian studies, as well as  
international relations. A minor  
Is offered in African studies.  
The Center also oversees the  
operation of thirteen study­ 
abroad programs in locations  
ranging from Europe and the  
Caribbean to the People's  
Republic of China.  
Mrs. Reves became Interested  
In supporting International  
studies at William and Mary  
through her contact with friends in Williamsburg who share her  - 
late husband's commitment to  
world peace.  
Frank Shatz, a local newspaper  
columnist. told Mrs. Reves of  
William and Mary's plans for the  
center. Shatz, an emigre from Czechoslovakia, had read  - 
"Anatomy of Peace" before  
fleeing the Communist takeover  
of his country.  
"It became my bible," said  
Shatz, "transforming me Into a  
faithful disciple of Emery Reves."  - 
During Shatz' first return to  
Europe, he decided to visit Reves  
to "pay my respects to the man  
must have the force of law and  who had so profoundly In­ 
the agreement of the great  fluenced my outlook on world  
powers behind It to be effective."  events."  


~--------------------------------------~ 
--page 8 The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1988 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 12 
area," Lanahan continued. "They have guys from Johns Hopkins, Virginia, and North Carolina who, even though they are out of college, still keep in the game." 
Senior goalie Matt McQuillan is leading a relatively young Irish defensive unit that has pe~ormed surprisingly well, aside from a 14-point letdown against a powerful Air Force team. The defense has held the opposition scoreless on man­down situations 15 of 22 times, a considerably high percentage in lacrosse. 

On the other side of the ball, the Irish's man-up offense is struggling, having converted on only 6 of 26 opportunities. Lanahan said improving on man-up situations and boosting the team's .300 shooting percentage are major priorities this weekend. 
record against Wooster and have never played Windy qty. Lanahan said that the game against Wooster is crucial be­cause it is a traditional Mid­west matchup. 
"Wooster is usually a pretty high scoring team that plays a wide open fast-paced game," he said. "We'll have to play our controlled style and keep the tempo down. 
"Windy City has a lot of ex­cellent college lacrosse players who now work in the Chicago 

Fencing 
continued from page 12 
in the event, and coming off a disappointing performance on Tuesday, she was able to finish in 13th place. 
"Kralicek did better than she did yesterday (Tuesday)," said Auriol. "She had very good technique, and she placed well considering she was added at the very last minute." 


Tile'*--Notn1 Dame office, located on the thln:l floor of LaFortune Stu­dent eenw, ecc:epta classified -'-tiaAng from 10 a.m until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Tile'*--Saint Mery's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must
Classifieds be pnlpakl, either In person Of' by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five cMractenl per day. 
NOTICES MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. TYPING AVAILABLE 287...082  WINNETKA, IL lam lkg lor daytime stu­dent aa summer girt. 312~171 evea. NANNIES NEEDED .SOUTH FLORIDA Nanni...Uothe111 Helpers, no fee, 1 year minimum commitment. 1-800-9­NANNY-1 Modern Day Nannlea, Inc. Ride needed !<>from Baltimore for  THE STONE HENGE ROMEOS ROCK CHIPS!II COME OUT AND PARTY WITH THE STONE HENGE ROMEOS AT CHIPS 325 & 326. THE STONE HENGE ROMEOS AT CHIPS WITH AWESOME DRINK SPE­CIALSIIIII  SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­INGS 914-3814224 Just say  DID YOU HERE THE NEWS? THE STONE HENGE ROMEOS WILL ROCK CHIPS. DON'T MISS THEM! Your way of teasing Is quite so pleasing We want you to hit the town And come back face downlll Happy 21 st!l Love, Us  Special Information: "How to Say No the Healthy Way•• Send $1 to LHeCom, Box 1832, St. Cloud, MN 56302. SPRING BREAK-OUTSALE!Apr.15-17. Used Books 5Q-90% off. New books 30% off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30 7 dayst week. 233-2342  
Easter.Leave :¥.30 aft. Astrid-3194  uNOc.  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  CALL  WAITRESSES & WAITERS NEEDED Flexible hours The Dock: 616-699·7466.  Need ride to Philly or D. C. area for Easter break.  ugty nan on campus...  HAIRCUTS:ONL Y $4111 I'll come to your room  SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES  
WORDePLUS Scholastic Typing.f:diting 250-30n  Sell me some grad tixs. 3282 Steve RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE Fri.  Will share expenses. Please call T ash a X4041.  God, she's ugly!  Jean 4244 Ride for 2 needed to NYONorthem NJ  TOGA TOGA TOGA TOGA TOGA SATURDAY AT MITCHEL'So9:30-21$5­SINGLE & $8-COUPLE WITH ZETO AND THE HEET ONS AND  
' LOST/FOUND I HELP!!! LOST WATCH A GRUEN WATCH WITH A LEATHER BAND AND SQUARE FACE WAS LOST LAST DEC. MAYBE LOST IN BRIGETS. VERY HIGH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OF­FERED. IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT IT CALL 277 ·3226 LOST ONE PAIR OF SILVER PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN A BLUE HARD CASE. LOST AFTER A BASKETBALL GAME BETWEEN THE ACC AND THE MAIN CIRCLE. PLEASE CALL JOE AT 4842.  Mar. 25 Can leave anytime Fri. or even Thurs. evening Will share expenses Call Heidi 233-4176, evenings or early mor­ning. Two students need ride to St. Louis for Easter week-end. Will help pay for ex­penses. Call -1046 or -4183. TELEMARKETERS ·DAY & EVENING SHIFTS. $4HR. CALL AFTER 1 PM 683-0861. FOR SALE Model 1 00 Portable Computer $267.00 Call 256-3077  SMALL BUSINESS EMPLOYMENT OP· PORTUNITIES Presented by Mr. Dell Lucas, career counselor and Ms. Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career & Placement Services. Foster Room -­LaFortune Student Center. 4:00 p.m., Today. Students of all classes and majors welcome. SMALL BUSINESS EMPLOYMENT OP­PORTUNITIES Presented by Mr. Dell Lucas, career counselor and Ms. Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career & Placement Services. Foster Room -LaFortune Student Center. 4:00 p.m., TOday. Students of all classes and majors welcome. SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES TOGA! THIS SATURDAY AT MITCHEL'S BUY TIX AT CLASS OF·  Thank you St. Jude & St. Anthony for prayers answered. Q: WHAT HAS 22 LEGS, 3 HORNS, ONE VELVET SMOKING JACKET, AND SOUNDS LIKE PRINCE, ARETHA FRANKLIN, JAMES BROWN, ANITA BAKER ETC., ETC.? 'A: FIND OUT FRIDAY AT THE ARCHITECTURE AUDITORIUM AND SATURDAY AT REGINA. THE GROOVE FRIDAY, BEAUX ARTS BALL SATURDAY, REGINA BEACH PARTY, 4-7, ALL WELCOME, AND NAZZ COM­PETITION, 9pm, STEPAN DON'T MISS THE GAME OF THE CEN­TURY THE SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL  area for Easter Break. Will share ex­penses and driving. call 2282. TOP 10 QUOTES FROM KEY WEST 1. Geellook at all thla water 2. Staff Met 3. Booze me, cruise me, teach me love. 4. "T;hey should drain the ocean and dig thla place out 5. Anyone? Anyone? Bueller? 6. Eat my ah-you buckwheat b--. 7. All you need In lila Ia a tremendous sex drfve and a great ago -bralna don't m•n a sh­8. Notre Dame's here. The party can start now. 9. Skin to win. 10. I had a chick that won a Hot Body contest AND a _, T-ahlrt contest  ADJ BUY TIX IN CLASS OFFICE THIS WEEK THU-2:30-4, FRI-1-4:30 TRANSPO PROVIDED SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES TOGATOGATOGATOGATOGATOGA TOGA TOGA TICKETS NOW ONLY $!>SINGLE, $&COUPLE FEATURING ZETO AND THE HEAT ONS AND A DJI BUY TIX IN CLASS OFFICE THU(2:3G­4) FRI(1-4:30) BUSSES PROVIDED HEY ... M.M.T. YOU KNOW FLORIDA WAS FUN. AND BARBADOS WAS RELAXING BUT COMING HOME WAS  
LOST/TAKEN !II dark blue Allergan make­up bag from the lost and found box of 1st floor O'Shag. It was only missing for an hour, yet it was lifted. What good are my cosmetics going to do you?! The re­placement cost will be near $75. Call upon your sense of decency and please return the items to 1st floor O'Shag, the lost and found, or 112 Lyonst £2903. Thanks! LOST AQUA-BLUE-OFF-WHITE SCARF MADE 1111 SCOTLAND TAG LOST THURS 3-3-87 BETWEEN DOME, BOOKSTORE, AND HOWARD REWARD OFFERED PLEASE CALL 2548 OR RETURN TO 226 HOWARD THANK YOU LOST AQUA-BLUE-OFF-WHITE SCARF REWARD OFFERED SUB SOUTH PADRE TRIP--Two carry­on bags were left on the buses on the return trip from South Padre. If you think they might be yours, stop in at the SUB office (2nd floor of LaFortune), or call 239-n57.  SUPER SINGLE WATERBED WITH DARK PINE BOOKCASE HEAD­BOARD. GREAT CONDITION. IN­CLUDES HEATER & BUMPER PADS. $200 FIRM. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 P.M. 21" Fuji CLUB apple red'fellow trim very lo miles. wlacc. great triathlete bike. 2n­2638 Fender bullet electric guitar w1 hardshell Fender case. Uke new, strap included. $175 or BO. Mike-x1718 TICKETS HELP! HELP! Anyone with extra GRATE· FUL DEAD ticl<ets for erther one of the Chicago shows, please call Scott at 3217 or Erin at 1302. Will pay$$. ................................................................ PERSONALS  FICE WED(3:30-5) THU(2:30-4) FRI(1:30-3) ONLY $&COUPLE & SMIINGLE International Festival Sat.,March 26,7:30 PM Washington Hall FREE ADMISSION Oh, you betchal I need a ride to the MinneapoliS'S!. Paul area for Easter. I can leave as early as Wed. afternoon and would like to return Tuesday morning. I'll pay money, share expenses, etc. Calf Kris at 4505. ;\niiN.-TioN·····iiii····G"i:i"Ao.u;\:riis·····;·~i Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information calf Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 Bartles Imports BMW!MAZ.DfvVW All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends April 30th THE GREAT COKE 'OUT SUPPORT THE BOYCOTT MARCH 22-25 THE GREAT COKE OUT MARCH 22-25 SUPPORT THE BOYCOTT  vs. FIVE WOMEN UNDER 5'3" Monday, 6:15 at STEPAN "Never has auch a compilation of shortness been assembled on ona court of play. Whatever unfolds In thla game will be ona to remember. Whoever emergea as the victor will be the Maaalah to short people worldwide. This will be a game that will go down In the lore of Mldgethood" -Brent Musberger WHAT BANDS DO YOU WANT TO COME TO CAMPUS ? Look for the S.U.B. survey next week. SEX SEX SEX Tired of nothing to do on campus ? Tell us what YOU want in the S.U.B. survey next week. SEX SEX SEX FRANKLY, MY DEAR, WE DO GIVE A --·! S.U.B. CARES I Tell us what movies you want to see in the S.U.B. survey next week. DAVID LETTERMAN coming to NO ? Well, maybe not -but S.U.B. wants to know who YOU want to see. Fill out the survey nex1 week.  STRAIGHT MESSAGE £1 "Yea, I do love you. But your drinking scares me. I don't want to spend my life with someone I can't count on." Transfer student looking for cheap sub­let for summer months! calf 3484 MYTHS OF THE BEAUX ARTS BALL Myth £1 It's only for arkies---Heck no! H's for EVERYBODY! (Even engineers come) Myth £2 You need a date---No, no, nobody brings dates. (If you really want one, find one there ... ) Myth £3 Lawrence Welk provides the music-­WRONG! THE GROOVE will be playing, 9:30-2:30 Myth £4 You must wear an elaborate costume--Hey, you can wear ANY kind of costume apopropriate for ... "The Rites of Spring". A Beaux Arts Ball. Saturday March 25. evade me  THE BEST OF ALL THANKS FOR EVERYTHING ....1 LOVE YOU. A.K.A. LEROY Why is every magazine printing its Na­tional League West Division standings predictions upside down? The Braves will rule the National League in 1988. THE YEAR OF THE BRAVES It beglna on April 5 Q. Who Is Bob Homer? A. An early April Fool's Day joke that Ted Turner sent to the St.Louis Car­dinals. The Atlanta Bravea -1988 World t:hamplons MIMI DEVUN You've had your fun in the sun You're sexy & now you're 21 Cavanaugh Hall Productions presents Gore Vidal's M•• THE BEST MAN MM Thursday -Friday -Saturday Library Audrtorium 7:30p.m.  
FOUND: PAIR OF MEN'S BLACK & WHITE ICE SKATES AT STEPAN CHEMISTRY. ALSO, PAIR OF LADY'S PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN BROWN  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  BRIDGET'S BARTENDER APPUCA­TIONS Are being taken thla w­coma by be-n 2:30-4:00, aak for  QUOTE OF THE DAY: "Hey Ann, does he look like a raisin?" ... "Yeah, Mol, he does."  I NEED A RIDE TO THE SYRACUSE I BINGHAMTON N.Y AREA FOR EASTER BREAKIIIII CAN LEAVE  How often doea a million dolle111 fall Into your lap-not to mention the Prwaldency  
CASE. CLAIM IN LOST & FOUND AT STEPAN IN ROOM lOS. A reward for return of men's gold bracelet lost in or around the ACC on Sat. Mar. 19 after the NCAA Tourney night games. Please, ~ there is a God or a St. Jude, or a St. Anthony, then let the finder call me, as the bracalet was an 87 xmas gift from my now deceesed wife. Please call Pat. 239 5096 or 289 9867  YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality Guaranteed. AAJAX "00 YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY GOAT IS?" IRISH MUSIC IRISH MUSICIII  camllo Need not be 21 until naX1 year Deadline: Friday, March 25 NEW ORLEANSIIIIII Round trip tickets from South Bend March 30-April 4 GREAT PRICEI!IIII Call x2809 soon!! Things We Won't Miss XXI: Paying $5 to see Prairie View A&M  Theme for this Sunday's shot party: show your tan lines and wear white. Bring something vile to drink. You know where it is. Fishheads forever. Top 10 quotes from Washington D.C.: (continued) 6. This is a gift from the good people of... 7. Jack 'Goose' Givens scored 41 points in the 1978 NCAA Championship game vs. Duke. 8. You'll never make it­ ANYTIME THURSDAY. PLEASE CALL ERIN AT 2732. BEWARE OF THE FISH KILLER! JOHN H. ROSES ARE RED, VIOLETS ARE BLUE MARY IS 19, BUT THEY BELIEVE SHE IS 22. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY!!! COL& KT  One'a a NEUROTIC ... and hla SEX IHel The other's a MONSTER ..nothing but AMBmON THERE ARE RUMORS ABOUT EVERY PUBUC MAN ... and WOMAN "You're the one with the problem ­how to get glrla Into the White Housel"  
JOHN KENNEDY AND  FRIENDS  AT  ·l'm going to law school. 9. If you take  
LOST AND FOUND I LOST a shelf ear­ring belween the Lyons parking lot and my room on March 5. I FOUND a scarf near the K of Con March 14. Please call  MR. CHRISTIAN'S DILEMA ON PRAIRIE AVE NEAR BRUNO'S PIZZA EVERY FRI AND SAT 8-12  Catch The Wave: Coke  five people out of the van, it'll be shorter. 10. You must be allergic to bull And a bonus quote: 11. Mary's buying the beer!  SPRING BREAK-NORTH PADRE PAUL,JOHN,PETE,GREG&DON  "Nobody with that awful wlla and thoea ugly chlldrwn could be any1hlng but heterosexual"  
2880 or leave a note at 201 Lyons to identify the scarf or tell me you found haW of my favorite pair of earrings.  RUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have your carpet professionally cleaned by The Rug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Off­campus negotiable. We also do furniture. Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY  For sale:Round trip airiine ticket(Amer. West) :Chicago-Phoenix Leave:31 MarchTH720A Return:4ApriiM0800A Call X1150  VACATION IN A WIND TUNNEL -MR. MOJO RISIN RIDE FROM HELL -HOT BOX -NICE PACKAGE -DONS GOTTA SNUGGLE BUDDY-E10 YEAR OLDS­BEER OUT THE NOSE -DANNY  ITS THE MAIN EVENT "You need to act laet • not juat all around having a high old lima with your conscience  
- FOR RENT LARGE N.D. AVE. HOME AVAIL. FOR FALL TERM; LEASE PLUS DEPOSIT; 255-5852 evenings  Oh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracle near Kinsman of Jesus Christ, farthful inter­cessor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present urgent petition,  TOP 10 PLACES VISITED BY THE WASHINGTON SEMINAR GROUP: 7. Duddington's 8. Congressman Downey's office. 9. Kennedy Center Parking Garage. 10. Brickskellar. To be con#nued . .. DRIVING TO IOWA FOR EASTER? I  GONG SHOW GONG GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG GONG The Gong Show  DEVITOS MOM -25 DRINKS EACH -FR. ROYTER DANCING -PUMP UP THE VOLUME -HOT TUB TORNADO SIT­TING -BEERS AT lOAM -CONSTANT PARTY HATS -P&J NAKED ON THE BALCONY ·CAN WE BORROW A SPATULA? -ROOMMATES FROM HELL -WASHCLOTHS ON THE CHIN -WHATABURGER -UP & DOWN THE RIVER -CAN EVERYONE JUST GET  To want power Ia corruption already. DEAR GOD, you hate yourself for being human "lllherw'a any point at all to thla unl­verae, It aurw aa hell evadea me"  
·-­ FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288·0955-255­3684 Large 5 bedroom house near campus. 1 year lease. Call 277-7360 days or 272­6181 evenings.  In return, I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and Glorias. Publication must be promised. St. Jude pray for us who invoke your aid. Amen. This Novena must be seid for 9 consecutive days.  need a ride to MarshaiHown, Ames, or close by. Will share expenses. Call Jeff 3061 Shoebox Greetlnga (a tiny little dlvl­alon of Hallmark) Ia looking for humor wrftera. You'll find a challenging carear In creating Innovative greeting  Tuesday March 29 Washington Hall Bp.m. Tickets are $2 In the Soph. Class Of· flee, LaFortune. All proceeds benefit St. Hedwig's Outreach House.  TOGETHER? -FLOUR BLUSS MARVEL BAG -LAST CALL FOR FLIGHT 662 -WE HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO FOOD -JUST MAKE SURE BEER IS ON THE LIST! THANKS SO MUCH GUYS FOR AN AWESOME BREAK! LOVE YA -DAWN & MAR  JOHN BRANIGAN JOHN BRANIGAN Looking for an SYR date? Give WANDA THE FISH a call (who knows, if you're toasted enough, you might even want to mash with her ...) .  
gil out duh way!  carda that nepre"""t a lreah alterna­ 
- WANTED SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21 e, Coed, sleepaway  nan sauer for UMOC ... Just when you thought it was safe to vote for a decent, upstanding American citizen... nan sauer for  tive to traditional humor carda. Shoebox oflara a competitive salary, a atlmuletlng creative environment and one of the flnaet benefit programs available. Juet write 10 (tan) humorous greeting card ldua on a  Hey MIKE FLYNN, you WEASEL you, Have a personal Your welcome  CRAZED  THANK YOU ST. JUDE  Dennis, how was your night with The Blanket? MARTY -Congrats on the scholarship.  
camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pianooplay for shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, gurtar, radio, video, archery, year­book, woodworking, AN and typist. Write:  UMOC.. BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts Students: Sell your unwanted class  single sheet of paper and send them along with your reaume and S.A.S.E. to: Editorial Manager Shoebox Greetings F5Mall Drop No. 200 Hallmark Carda, Inc.  TOP 10 Quotes from PADRE: 10 The bowl doesn't go to the front seat 9 Should we tip the maids 8 You guys took the fun out of drinking 7 Rob how big were they? 6 Where's the off button? 5 Who wants to play dizzy bats? 4 Where's the POP MACHINE?-On the  NORTH CAROLINA '81! Let's go bobbing for cops. No bar too far. My how time flies when your flat on your face. Debbie: Will you dance on the bar counter? Usa: Do you want to get thrown in the lake? Missy: Frump, Gump, Frog?  And we thought we were the only ones who liked your writing! Pete (2), Kelly, O'G, Steve and Gull  
Camp Emerson, Eastchester, NY 914177~.  5 Brassie 10707 or  Ad, call  books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week 233-2342  Poat Office Box 419580 Kanaaa City, MO 841416580  Beach 3 f lost all my CLUES 2 Gimme a POP! 1 One Question. 'WHERE AM I?I"  Let's go to South of the Border. Michele: Want to break the record and go for six? Let's do Savannah again!  Need ride home for break to Phllly area. Can leave Wed. Call Matt x1686  




Ramon Rivas and the Temple Owls will try to grab a spot In the East regional final with a victory tonight over the Richmond Spiders. Temple's Atlantic 10 rival Rhode Island takes on Duke In the other East regional semifinal tonight. 

oe'\"ert 
THBYELLOW 


SUBIIARINB 
"Nicest Buns In Town" 

HAM  SALAMI  
CORNED BEEF  PEPPERONI  
VEGETARIAN  MEATBALL  
TURKEY  TUNA SALAD  
FRENOIDIP  OUCKEN SALAD  
PIZZA  ANDSPEOALS  
PASTRAMI  

PEPPERONI-MEATBALL 
ASSORTED CUTS 
The IWian -Ham, Salami, Pepperoni 
Oub Combo -Roast Beef, Ham, Turkey 
Super Combo -Ham, Salami, Honey Loaf 
ALL ON WHITE OR WHOLEWHEAT BUNS BAKED FRESH TiiE DAY YOU EAT THEM WITH NO PRESERVATIVE5 

---SEASONED TO PLEASE YOUK TASTE--­
LETI'UCE, ONION, TOMATO, ITAllAN DRESSING, MAYONAISE. YELLOW AND BROWN MUSTARD, AND YOUR CHOICE OF CHEEZE ·MOZZARELLA. SWISS, AMERICAN, OR PROVOLONE 
ALSO AVAll.ABLE AT NO EXTRA Ol.ARCE 
PICKLES, BLACK OUVES, SALT, PEPPER. JALAPENO AND BANANA PEPPERS, OREGANO, RED HOfSAUCE 

FRESH SALAD· Try Our New Super Salad 
DRINKS .55 • .65 • .75 -LOO Pepsi, Diet. Mounlain Dew, Teem, Dr. Pepper, Grape, Orange, Upper 10, Lemonade, Fruit Punch, Ice Tea. 
Root Beer 
WITH SERVICE THArS READY WHEN YOU ARE 
MONDAY-SATURDAY 10am-10pm 
SUNDAY llam~pm 
AT PRICES YOU CAN TRUST 
8" Foot Long And 2' up to 6' $2.00-$2.99 $3.00 -$3.99 At spec1at Pnces 
Come In -Or Call 272-HIKE 
We Deliver Wilhin 3 Miles· $6.00 Minimwn Order 

N 
~· 

18109 SR 23-JUSf WEST OF IRONWOOD-272-4453 
The Observer page 9 

Sports Briefs 
A Sports Writers Meeting will be held Chinese Tai Jiexercise classes will begin
tonight at 10 in The Observer offices in LaFor­today. The NVA-sponsored classes will meet tune. Spring assignments will be discussed, and for an hour on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7 new writers are welcome. Those unable to at­p.m. in the Joyce ACC Boxing Room for the tend should contact Marty Strasen at 239-5303 next four weeks. Students may register in ad­
or 283-1489. -The Observer vance at NVA by paying a $4 registration fee. For more information, call instructor Hongyi
BookstoreBasketballbeginsthisFriday Sun at 239-5252 or the NVA office at 239-6100. at 4 p.m. on the Bookstore courts. The Hall of -The Observer Fame game will have Tim Brown, David 
The Tae K won Do club sent threeRivers, Tony Rice playing on the same team members to the Indiana State Take Kwon Doagainst the Digger Phelps Fan Club and Five Championships in Indianapolis last Saturday.

Other Guys. -The Observer Greg Barron and Chris Thomas competed in the men's black belt division, and Hoa Tran 
BookstoreBasketballscorekeeperswill won a gold medal in blue belt fighting and a meet tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room in bronze medal in blue belt forms. The team was LaFortune. All people wishing to help should coached by head instructor Richard C. Jen­attend. Questions should be directed to Mike at nings. -The Observer x1962. -The Observer. 
The ND Men's Volleyball club hosts 

The ND Sailing Club is looking for Aquinas College tonight as the Irish look to im­anyone interested in teaching sailing for the prove their league record to 10-0. The game spring semester. Call Mike at x3508 if inter-starts at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC Pit. On Friday ested. -The Observer night, the Irish host Indiana-Purdue at Fort 
, O S t Wayne, the 12th-ranked varsity team in the na-
Men s pen occer tour~ament. ros.ers tion. That match also will start at 7:30p.m. in will be accepted a~ the NV~ offt~e until today the JACC Pit. -The Observer 
at 5 p.m. A captams' meetmg will b~ held on Friday at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium. Interhall baseball umpires are needed. Tournament play begins this weekend. Any Students can earn $7 a game umpiring from questions should be directed to NVA at 239-6100. behind the pitcher's mound. Contact NVA for -The Observer more information. -The Observer 
AMlntAEI. Nl~~MITil P""""'"""" An FlU nn· p,.,J.,.·bun "REI~) MAN" HARRY llEAN STANTON • EMIIJO L~ll:vEZ '"'""" ·• ,....... , •• ROBBY MULIIR ''""''""'"""MICHAEL NL~Mil11 ,.,.•,,.""" IONAiliAN WAIK'i,..;J~:ll:R M•l'ARTIIY •"~"""""""~ Al:!';'!_~:o~ llll,'""''n,...... -....... I .. IIJ,II,W ~.!1 ~!;:~~.a2f!~~L: R ~:..•:;··.=:.·;,  
FREE ADMISSION II Thuraday 9:30 81 Theodore's  

Babies Don't Thrive 
In 
Smoke-filled Wombs 

When You're Pregnant, Don't Smokel 


-Musical Competition! $300 Grand Prize!!! 
illustrious judges
Saturday. March 26 9:00pm ~ Stepan Center 
Featuring: Comedian Henry Cho, "The Tennessee Korean" as master of ceremonies. 
Applications available Secretary 2nd Floor LaFortune Questions? Contact Maura 283-2745 

page 10 The Observer 
Golf team heads to EKU 
Tourney follows impressive showing in Florida trip 
By WILLIAM STEGMEIER 
Sports Writer 
Coming off an impressive showing in Florida over Spring Break, the Notre Dame Varsity golf team will compete in the Eastern Kentucky University Spring Golf Classic this weekend. 
Golf teams from the Big Ten and Mid-American confer­ences, as well as major in­dependents from District IV, comprise the 18-team field for this 54-hole event. Notre Dame a combined total of 307, out­shooting Embry-Riddle by five shots. Junior Pat Mohan led the way with a round of 73. 

Next up for the Irish was the Palm Coast Intercollegiate, where Notre Dame got to play at the Arnold Palmer-designed Matanzas Woods and Pine Lakes courses, as well as at Palm Harbor. The team shot combined scores of 332, 320 and 316 at the courses, respective­ly, with the round of 320 coming in a downpour at Matanzas Woods. 
Notre Dame's performance 
club in Florida. The Irish shot 
Keady has 
a friend in 

KSU coach 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­
Purdue's Gene Keady and Kansas State's Lon Kruger, whose basketball teams play Friday night in the NCAA Mid­west Regional semifinals, have a lot in common. 
Both are native Kansans, both are graduates of Kansas State, both began their coach­ing careers in Kansas and both have a tremendous admiration for the other. 
"He's someone you like to see win ... except for this game," says Keady. 
This game at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., of course, is the next to last hurdle to a trip to the Final Four. And those games, appropriately, will be in Kansas City. 
"Lonnie's team is a clone of what he was like as a player (at Kansas State)," said· Keady. "They play hard, they play smart and they can shoot it. And he coaches a lot like Co­ach (Jack) Hartman." 
Kruger was the Big Eight Conference player of the year in 1973 and 1974, leading the Wildcats to conference titles under Hartman, a man Keady credits for much of his own bas­ketball philosophy. 
By the time Kruger was in college, Keady was well into his coaching careeer at Hutchin­

• son (Kan.) Junior College . From there, Keady moved to Arkansas, Western Kentucky and Purdue. Kruger, mean­while, became an assistant to Hartman at Kansas State, then head coach at Pan American and, two years ago, succeeded
-
Hartman at his alma mater. 
"I've known Coach Keady for a long time, ever since I was in college," Kruger says. "I've followed his teams wherever he's been. And I've always had a great deal of respect for how tough-minded and well­disciplined his teams are." 
Purdue beat Kansas State 101-72 last December in Mackey Arena. 

had O'Sullivan feeling optimis­
tic. 
"A team score of 320 or lower shows that your team has been competitive with some of the best," said the 16th-year Irish mentor. 
Senior captain and number-one golfer Dick Connelly per­formed exceptionally well at the Intercollegiate. Connelly 
rounds. Looking ahead to the rest of the season, the Irish have their only dual meet of the season against Lewis College 
Thursday, March 24, 1988 


Soviet team to visit SB 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-The So­viet National Junior basket­
ball team will include a May 
10 stop at South Bend in its visit to the United States this 
spring. 
The Soviet team will be in 
the United States during 
May for a 10-game tour against Amateur Athletic Union club and regional teams, the AAU has an­nounced. 
The tour has been sanc­tioned by the Amateur Bas­ketball Association of the United States and will be played under international rules. 
Games at Jonesboro, Ark., on May 11 and Columbia, S.C., on May 17 will be televised live by ESPN. 
Last year, the Soviet juniors compiled a 7-2 record during a tour of the United States. 

placed 23rd out of 168 golfers, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
with a score of 233 for threeri 
finished eighth in this event last.-------~'!!!!~---~-=:=-,~==::-:::"""'-----, 
ye,~h~r spring trip was ex-NJD AV'E APTS. ~~~~;!~~1~~~if~~ SPECIAL ~~~gAlLAllLE
fine performances, and our conditioning has put us in good shape for the rest of our schedule." The golfers started their spring trip by win­ning a triangular meet with 

~~e~~~~~d~~eRi:i~~a [~~~:~; L~.~··~···.~,·~;,~·~;,;;;.:~a~·#;,;,;···~;;o;,•• 
.• .•. ~ili·; t~._n.•······..,$..,............;·~ ...en••··•·•...Y···--­.,·.·••••~····.l.•~~ili ..•~ ·.·.·..... P....
...·•·•·••~~;~···~.••••·.· ....... ··~n..·.·;w. ....8·· ... 
Monday, March 28 ~t!j) ~~ Library Auditorium l?1]@©)11cgrn{00 
Domestic Policy Debate 
7p.m. Featuring Panelists: 
Dr. Perry Arnold Head of Notre Dame Government Department 
Mr. Patrick Pierce Saint Mary's Government Department 


''No matter how 
bad they are, Grandrila loves to hear the 
latest jokes..,., 
You miss her sparkling sense of humor. She misses \'OU and \'our jokes. Even the had ones. That's one good reason to call long distance. AT&T Long Distance Service is another good reason. Be­cause it costs less than \'OU think to hear your gran(l­mother start to giggle he· tim.' you even get to the punch line. 
So whenever \UU miss her laughter, bring' a smile to her face with AT&T. Reach out and touch someone~ 
If \'ou'd like to know more ah.out AT&T products and services, like the AT&T Card, call us at 1 HOO 222-0300. 


AT&T 
The right choice. 




Thursday, March 24, 1988 page 11
The Observer 


Comics 
Bloom Count Berke Breathed 
Far Side Garry Trudeau 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
'tlERE IT Sll.iS T\GEIIS 
E.NO~NGERt.O? ~tfl-II.L'l FACED 
EXIINCI\ON 
"NO 1\\t.IR fvnJR£ Rtl"'A\~<; 
IN OOIJBI. 
"OK, here it is: I'm sick of your face, Ned." 

~-~~Q>~o,Q->~~<Q>~~~<Q'>~~~~~~~ 
~ WOODY ALLEN WEEK 
"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex" -but were afraid to ask! Wed & Thurs 8 & 10 pm "A Mid Summer Night Sex Comedy" Fri & Sat 8 & 10 pm 


Sponsored by SUB 
~~~~~o,Q->~~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 








Campus . 
Thursday 
12 p.m. Brown Bag Lunch Series lecture "Human Rights in the Arab Countries" by Nazih Daher of the department of modern and classical languages. Room 110 Law School. 
12 p.m. Thomas J. White center on Law and Government lecture "Religion and the Founders: Madison, Franklin, and Jefferson," by Professor Thomas Pangle, University of· Toronto. Room 112 Law School. 
12:15 p.m. Saint Mary's Justice Education Series film and discussion. Theme: justice in the context of the U.S. Constitution. Film: "Bringing the Third World to the Campus and Community." Discussion led by Professor Jerry McElroy and Professor Charles Pressler, Saint Mary's. Stapleton Lounge. 
4 p.m. Career and Placement Services workshop on "Small Business and Entrepreneurial Opportunities" by Dell Lucas, career counselor, and Marilyn Bury, assistant director. Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute and the department of sociology lecture "Determinants of the Growth of the Post-War Latin American Population," by Professor Alberto Palloni, department of sociology, University of Wisconsin, Madison. 131 Decio Hall. 
4 p.m. Douglas Kinsey art exhibit special undergraduate tour and seminar conducted by Professor Douglas Kinsey. Snite Museum of Art. 
4:15 p.m. College of Arts and Letters Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, department of government, and Black Studies Program Series lecture "A Legend Before Their Time: Latinos as National Political Actors,'' by Rodolfo de Ia Garza, University of Texas, Austin. Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 
4:15p.m. American Catholic Studies seminar "Desegregating the Altar: The Struggle for Black Catholic Priests, 1854-1960," by Professor Steve Ochs, Geor­getown Preparatory School, Maryland. Library Lounge. 
4:30 p.m. Saint Mary's departments of art, history, and modern languages lecture "Rueben's and the Marie de Medici Cycle," by Simone Zurawski, De Paul University. 232 Moreau Seminary. 
7:30 p.m. department of art, art history, and Design Visiting Guest Artist Program free slide lecture by Karl Wirsum, Chicago artist. The Snite Museum will display his works until March 28. Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 p.m. Saint Mary's Haggar College Center parlor play "On the Verge," produced and directed by Robert Small. Also showing Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday. For further information, call 284-4640.  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Steak & Cheese Sandwich  Turkey Cutlet with Gravy  
Grilled Pork Chops Vegetarian Fried Rice Stuffed Shells  Beef Stew Seafood Crepes Deli Bar  

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Whiff 6 Malicious 
gossip 10 Cheers 14 Paramour 15 "Typee" 
sequel 16 Like -of bricks 
17 A miss Is as 
good as ­18 --date 19 Loyal 20 Court sport 22 Trunk Item 23 Feedbag 
contents 24 Pastry 26 Short ­30 Walk like a 
crab 32 Long time 33 Pitcher 35 Bewildered 39 Ungentlemanly 41 Automaton 43 Beer mug 44 Best or Ferber 

46 Atmosphere 47 Harriet 7 Deadlock 
Beecher -8 Moslem 49 Fish hawk weight 51 Ill will 9 Drove a 54 Shoe part vehicle 56 Repute 10 Dilapidated 57 Devotee car 63 Foundation 11 Entrance 64 Poet Ogden courts 65 "-on 12 Beautiful 
Sunday" woman 66 S-shaped 13 Scoff 
curve 21 US statesman 67 Merriment of old 68 Soot 25 Dressed 69 Try 26 Pouches 70 -out (makes 27 Great warmth 
do) 28 Took a cab 71 A Ford 29 Lacking 
prudence 40 Division word DOWN 31 Meshed's land 42 Ruth's In-law 1 Croat or Serb 34 Sound of 
45 Heir of sorts 2 Singer Perry relief 48 Osage or 3 Depraved 36 Acerb navel 4 Carter of song 37 Ireland 50 Cadge 5 -knowledge 38 "-at the 51 See 41A 6 Uncertainty Races" 52 Saying 
03/24/88 
53 Pries 55 Yearns 58 Columbo's 
portrayer 59 Schmo's kin 60 Rara ­61 Township 62 Soviet city 





Sports
Thursday, March 24, 1988 page 12 
Sullivan wins her second national title 

By STEVE MEGARGEE She waited and prepared her As the first woman scholar­Barreda went on to beat Yas­Assistant Sports Editor attacks well." ship fencer at Notre Dame, Sul­mine Topcu of Wayne State, Sullivan had won the national livan became the first Notre which placed her third in the 
Any disappointment the title in 1986, but she placed Dame woman fencer to win two nation. She held a 10-6 record Notre Dame women's fencing third in the individual cham­national championships and for the day and earned first­team may have felt after com­pionships last year after Notre earn a spot on the first-team team All-American honors. ing just short in its national Dame had taken the team All-American list all four years "I was wondering early in the title defense on Tuesday can championship. of her collegiate career. day if she could bounce back now be washed away. "I'm happy to win this, and after struggling," said Auriol. 
The Irish came back with an In the finals this year, Sul­this is how I wanted to end my "A few other times she had exceptional performance in livan met Wayne State's college career." said Sullivan. given up, but today Anne Wednesday's individual cham­Loredana Ranza. Wayne State "I feel I have a lot more to do proved she can fence with pionships at Princeton, N.J. had won the national title over personally like making the anyone when she's right." Senior Molly Sullivan won the Notre Dame by a 9-6 score on Olympic team." The most surprising perfor­second national title of her Tuesday. The team for the 1988 Seoul mance of the day may have career, sophomore Anne Bar­Summer Olympics will be an­come from Kralicek. The
Molly Sullivan

reda placed third in the nation Sullivan came through with nounced in June. junior from Portland, Ore., and Kristin Kralicek finished in a 9-7 victory over Ranza to win to do, and I basically knew how If not for Sullivan, Barreda was not originally scheduled to 13th place. her second national champion­to fence her," said Sullivan. "It may have had a chance at fence. She learned at 10 a.m. 
"I'm very glad she ship in three years. It was the was the first time I fenced her taking the national title. Mter the day of the competition that (Sullivan) won the title again first time the North Andover, in an eight-touch bout, and I having a tough time at the she would be taking the place this year," said Irish coach Mass., native had defeated think that's totally different beginning of the day, Barreda of an injured Wayne State fen­Yves Auriol. "I thought she'd Ranza after losing to her four from a five-touch bout. I advanced to the semi-finals, cer. As the last-seeded fencer win. We had a bout plan, and times earlier this season. Sul­thought I could beat her in an where Sullivan eliminated her Molly followed it to perfection. livan recorded a 15-0 record for eight-touch bout.'' with an 8-1 victory. see FENCING, page 8 
Irish take two from Bethel 
Piotrowicz, Madsen lead baseball team to sweep 
Special to The Observer Irish built up the lead once out the benefit of a hit early in again. A Tim Hutson solo home the inning, Keith Bueche single 
Strong pitching perfor-· run Chis seventh of the season) with two outs to break up Mad­mances by Brian Piotrowicz and an RBI single by Mike Coss sen's no-hitter. and Erik Madsen powered the made the score 6-1 in favor of Notre Dame baseball team to the Irish. With the Irish leading 2-1 in a doubleheader sweep at Bet­Notre Dame closed its the final inning, Bethel loaded hel on Wednesday afternoon. scoring with a two-run fourth the bases with nobody out. 
Piotrowicz pitched a six­inning, keyed by Dan Peltier's Madsen struck out the side hitter in the first game, an 8-2 two-run single. from there to secure the win Irish triumph. Erik Madsen Bethel scored once in the bot­and doubleheader sweep. hurled a three-hitter to give tom half of the fourth to ac­Notre Dame a 2-1 win in the count for the final 8-2 score. Madsen struck out 11 while second game. The complete game victory by walking just one batter in the 
Notre Dame, which now Piotrowicz marked the sopho­seven-inning contest. For the sports a record of 8-10, scored more's first win since last April season, he has a won-loss eight runs in the first four in­11 against Tulane. record of 4-1 and an earned run nings of the first game to cruise In the second game, Madsen average of 3.73. The junior to victory. pitched a perfect first four in­from Great Falls, Mont., has 
Senior shortstop Pat nings. The Irish scored twice allowed just one run in his last Pesavento scored from third on during that time with single 15 innings of work. In his last a Bethel error to give the Irish runs in the first and third in­22 and one-third innings, he has a 1-0 lead in the first inning. nings. struck out 19 while walking just 
Notre Dame scored three A two-out bloop single by two batters. Madsen has a 31-7 runs in the second inning, with Moshier scored Peltier for the strike out-walk ratio for the the key hits being a double by first run, and Peltier's double season. James Sass that scored Mike in the third inning scored Moshier and a single by Greg Pesavento for the second Irish The Irish next face Wisconsin Vogele which brought home run. this Friday at 2 p.m. in Notre
Behind the pitching of Brian Plotrowlcz (above) and Erik Madsen, 
Sass. Dame's first game at South
the Notre Dame baseball team swept Bethel In a doubleheader 
Mter Bethel scored a single Bethel came back with a run Bend's new Stanley Coveleski
Tuesday afternoon. Both Plotrowlvcz and Madsen came through 
run in its half of the second, the Stadium.
in the fifth. After scoring with-
with complete game victories. 



Lacrosse eager to open home season, excite fans 
Tom Lanahan. "A lot of times said. "The game is fast paced watch for the play of senior at­By PETE LaFLEUR an exhibition game against 
Sports Writer Windy City, a club team from people have said that they and offensive oriented (there tackman Jeff Shay. Chicago. But whoever they didn't know when the games are often upwards of 20 goals "Jeff has been working very The Notre Dame lacrosse play or whenever they play, the were, but hopefully this year per game). People also like the hard, and as the year goes on 
physical nature because his play will sometimes decide team plays for the first time at team is just eager to play a more people will be aware of 

the games and how exciting 
whether we win or lose," saidthe Edward W. "Moose" Lanahan. "Jeff plays on theKrause Stadium this weekend 
they are." 
Lanahan said that Saturday crease and is who the middiesas the Irish open their home 
games are usually the best to and other attackmen usuallyseason with a 3-1 record. 
The team has eagerly attend. Only six home games look to when they are double­awaited the opportunity to play will be played this season, with teamed." on the new field, but they will three of them on Saturdays. He Shay has been somewhat of 
a surprise scorer so far with

have to wait one more day than also stressed that lack of eight goals, including two hatexpected. A Notre Dame track knowledge about the game 
shouldn't stop people from tricks, and three assists. Fel­invitational has forced Satur­coming out. low attackmen John Olmstead
day's game against Wooster out of Krause stadium. The "I never talked to a person and Brian McHugh also have game with the Fighting Scots .JA... who saw a game and didn't like helped carry the scoring load instead will be played on Car­Tom Lanahan it," said Lanahan. "Most saw Jeff Shay for the Irish. tier Field or in the Loftus All­game at home after returning the game and wanted to know there's a lot of hitting and Olmstead has scored three 
hat tricks on his way to 12 goals

Sports Complex, depending on from four games in Colorado even more about it. checking." 
and five assists while McHugh, 

the weather. Contrary to an ad during spring break. Lanahan said one could The Irish are eager to begin in yesterday's Observer, the "We only played before describe the game to those who their quest for a Great Lakes the team's strongman, has game will begin at 2:30 p.m. maybe 100 fans on that whole are unfamiliar with it as a com­conference title and possible tallied eight goals and six as­
(not 1:30 p.m.). trip and we are kind of on a roll bination of soccer and hockey. NCAA berth, and that begins sists. 
The Irish hold a 5-1 series

Nonetheless, the Irish will of­now, so we are excited to play "There's a famous saying with the season openers this ficially open play at Krause on before a good showing of home back East that lacrosse is the weekend. Sunday at 1:30 when they play fans," said senior tri-captain fastest game on two feet," he Lanahan said fans should see LACROSSE, page 8 





