Toward Tempe temps
IACCENT: A Very Brady Christmas 
Mostly sunny, breezy and mild 
today. High in the middle 50s. 
Increasing cloudiness tonight. 
Low in the middle 30s. 
IVIEWPOINT: Lazy-and proud of it 



VOL. XXII, NO. 64 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Gorbachev will visit U.S., Cuba 
Associated Press and Reagan signed an agree­
ment to eliminate their 

MOSCOW-A year after con­medium-and shorter-range nu­cluding an arms treaty with the clear missiles. United States, Mikhail Gorbac­But progress in talks to cut hev is heading for a meeting the two sides' arsenals of stra­with President Reagan and tegic weapons slowed -to a President-elect George Bush crawl because of the U.S. elec­Wednesday to help set the pace tion campaign and problems for future arms talks. including continued differ­
During the Soviet president's ences over Reagan's "Star trip, which begins Tuesday, he Wars" program for a space­will address the United Nations based defense against nuclear and visit Cuba and Britain, attack. trying to polish his image as a The government newspaper statesman and dispel the Izvestia, in a front-page article image of the Soviet Union as fr~m New York Monday,
on -·~ 

an enemy. said the U.S. administration 
Tass called Wednesday's was preparing intensively for luncheon meeting in New York the meeting with Gorbachev. with Reagan and Bush "an ex­"There is a basis to suppose " 
traordinary event" because su­that the administration will not perpower relations are a deter­only listen, but propose some­mining factor for "the very thing in return," the paper essence of the world process." said. 
"It is perfectly natural that Gorbachev has said he is the new administration will seeking improved relations ¥.01NG lrt\ ~ 
:\lSYt<I'%J.. _,.' 7

need some time to get its with the West in order to free 
~­

bearings in the complexity of up resources to improve the domestic and international standard of living of Soviet ~;; problems. But it is very impor­citizens. 
Itant not to drag out this per­One Western analyst who \ iod," Tass said. spoke on condition of 
•. 

"Marking time in interna­anonymity said the Soviet Appetite for amnesty 
The Observer I Mike Moran

tional affairs, especially in the Union ''doesn't have the re­domain of arms limitation and sources to sustain the invest­Junior Erich Straub and senior Kathy Mariani, of Amnesty International, reduction, is tantamount not ment it's been making in ask students in North Dining Hall yesterday to sign Christmas cards for only to loss of time, but to back­foreign aid and defense." Mutile Henry Fazzie, a prisoner in South Africa. sliding," it said. 
On Dec. 8, 1987, Gorbachev see VISIT, page 7 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1988 
-


Senate resolves on lecture policy 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
Staff Reporter The Student Senate passed a resolution Monday regarding the University's policy on poli­tical lectures, sparked by the controversy surrounding George Bush's lecture last month. Submitted by senator Mark Chapman, the resolution stated that since the University "has a responsibility to remain politically un-biased and non­partisan ... to raise the stand­ards of political debate ... to insure fair ticket distribution," it should take steps to avoid what some senate members call "the manipulation of the University." The resolution, written in ref­erence to a similar resolution made by the faculty senate, recommends that the Univer­sity "shall oversee the ground rules set by the campaign staff and the administration for visits by political candidates." It also recommends "the Uni­versity administration make every effort to prevent the ap­pearance of a Notre Dame en­dorsement for any candidate." 
see SENATE, page 5 


Campus View once again plagued by Hare Krishnas 

By DAN MURPHY Dame hats and saying "I'm Senior Staff Reporter going to have to give you a cita­tion for not having enough Individuals soliciting money fun." The members, dressed in at Campus View Apartments street clothes, asked for dona­Friday may be members of the tions for "The Appalachia International Society for Projects," according to an ar­Krishna Consciousness, or ticle appearing in The ISKCON, a group affiliated Observer on Nov. 6. Many stu­with a Hare Krishna sect based dents mistakenly thought they in Moundsville, West Virginia. were contributing money to A van pulled into the Campus Notre Dame programs spon­View _parking lot Friday night sored by Council for the Inter­and a~t four people got out national Lay Apostolate and began soliciting door-to-(CILA) or the Center for Social door, according to the manager Concerns which benefit-im­
vegetarian meals to im­poverished people in the Ap­palachian region. Other pro­grams receiving solicited money include on-the-job train­ing programs, health education classes, outreach centers which distribute food in several cities and the promotion of a "dFug-free environment" in a rural area near Moundsville Goth said. ' 
Students have not filed any complaints with Notre Dame Security concerning solicitors, . 

of the apartment complex, John poverished areas of the Ap-according to Phillip Johnson, Wilson. A member of Campus palachian Mountains. Assistant Director of Notre View's maintenance staff The assistant manager of Dame Security. "Nobody has asked the individuals to leave ISKCON's Appalachia Proj-permission to solicit door-to­the premises after the the ects, Helmut Goth, said he was door in the dorms," Johnson Campus View office received unaware of any ISKCON mem-said, "and people {)Ught not two phone calls from residents hers soliciting in the South hesitate to call if they see some­concerning the solicitors. Bend area at the present time. one suspicious. We won't come 
"The same thing happened However, he said members in there like gangbusters. We last year" said .Wilson, travel across the country and· won't embarrass them. We try 
"there's no soliciting allowed may have stopped for a short here period. It's too much of a time in South Bend. security problem.'' Money raised by ISKCON 
Last fall members of members helps fund various ISKCON collected donations programs created by ISKCON, from students both on and off according to Goth. He said the campus. They often began by money may go toward a food distributing stickers or Notre program which delivers free to be discreet." 
The Moundsville ISKCON or­ganization has been involved in legal cases ranging from mur­der and arson to fraud, and has been implicated in copyright infringements, according to the Wheeling (WVA) Register. 

Atlantis places satellite, to return to Earth today 
Associated Press 
JOHNSON SPACE CENTER, Houston-The military astronauts aboard the space shuttle Atlantis planned to end their secrect mission Tuesday, having deployed a powerful spy satellite over the Soviet Union, sources said Monday. 
NASA and Air Force officials have remained silent about the mission, saying they would only comment to give 24-hour notice on the shuttle's landing 
time  or  if  a  major problem  
developed.  
Although  no  official  word  

was heard from either agency by early Monday afternoon, a source demanding anonymity said the crew planned to land Tuesday afternoon at Edwards Air Force Base in California. 
The flight, under Air Force command, has been shrouded in secrecy since Atlantis blasted off Friday morning from Cape Canaveral, Fla. 
As the five military officers began their fourth day in orbit Monday morning, knowledge­able sources said the crew had successfully deployed a $500 million Lacrosse satellite over the weekend. 
The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the satellite was operating well in an orbit that carries it over 80 percent of the Soviet Union. Deployment of the surveillance satellite was believed to be the military mission's chief goal. 
The satellite is said to be de­signed to gather extremely sharp all-weather radar images of Eastern Bloc mili­tary targets and would help American intelligence agencies monitor Soviet com­pliance with arms control treaties. 
Eventually, it also would serve as the "radar eye" for the new B-2 stealth bomber. That would eliminate a bomber crew's need to use the aircraft's own radar which might disclose its location. 
Before Monday, no in-flight information had been leaked to news agencies as it was during two earlier Defense Depart­ment shuttle missions. 
"It seems the Air Force and NASA have learned how to plug 
see ATLANTIS, page 5 

-----~---~­
----~------~---------­
----~-­

Tuesday, December 6, 1988 
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN
IN BRIEF 

Year of Cultural Diversity heightens 
It's the Year of Cultural Diversity. 
I've seen and heard that phrase countless times since August, as it represents a concerted effort to make our somewhat homogeneous stu­dent body more aware that there is a world beyond the Golden Dome. 
As a result, numerous events have been spon­sored, from the Peking Opera to fireside chats concerned with the Irish Question. The admin­istration has done an admirable job of coordi­nating and publicizing these opportunities for us to broaden our horizons. 
What they have provided us with, however, is not cultural diversity, but cultural visibility. It is one thing to watch students give a Spanish dancing display on the fieldhouse mall in rented flamenco attire and remember that there is a Spain; it is quite another to attempt to under­stand the Spanish people. We are being pro­vided with the opportunity to experience the finest aspects of other cultures, but this is only a starting point. . 
I went to high school in England in a school that can best be described as an international melting pot. In that sort of environment, it is next to impossible to ignore the existence of other cultures. Especially when frequent heated debates took place about the Arab­Israeli conflict between citizens of each country and I couldn't walk through the hallways with­out hearing different dialects of almost every The Year of Cultural Diversity is intended to language known to man. As I was forced to accomplish that. What it provides is a stepping understand other cultures in order to under­stone. We can attend all of the major events stand my classmates, I realized that there was offered by the University, sleep through all of at least a small element of truth to the frequent the lectures, and become aware of all kinds of jokes made about the Americans' ignorance new countries whose names we can't and lack of caring about other cultures. I don't pronounce. And at the end of it all we can look think Americans are indifferent to life outside back on all the token efforts we have made and the Continental U.S., just less informed than marvel at how wonderful we are for broadening their European counterparts. . our horizons and enriching our lives and con­
We are a relatively homogeneous group. This tributing so actively to our educations. Great. isn't all bad: it is not difficult to find friends on This is only a start. Making token appear­this campus with common interests and values. ances at University-sponsored functions does On the other hand, we also tend to develop an provide exposure to the great aspects of other indifference to people outside our own world. cultures. Select aspects. To truly understand This is true not only of the way we react to the people living within a culture, and contri­other cultures around the world, but to the sub· buting to it, it is necessary to go beyond super­cultures we find in our own country. I was ficial observations and look around at the rep­surprised to find when I arrived back in the resentatives of other cultures that we have the States last year to start my freshman year here opportunity to know. By becoming more aware the extent to which discrimination against of them, the differences between their lives and minorities is still alive and well. And the extent the lives we have known, and how they fit into to which people are unaware of it. I don't the overall scheme of things, we also become honestly believe that it is consciously ignored more sensitive to the needs and interests of all by the majority of the people here because they of the different ethnic groups that contribute to are cold and uncaring. Perhaps they simply society. It is then that the Year of Cultural Di­need to increase their awareness. versity accomplishes its purpose. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 lhrqugh Observer advertising. fqr details. 
~~~53 WfEfE~D 53 fE ~fErMI 53 &I SfMl[ 
CHRISTMAS BAZAAR: LeMans Lobby Mon-Fri 9-5. Area residents and student groups wi 11 
be se11ing handmade items as we11 as T-shirts, 
candy, and glassware at reasonable prices. 
ALL SMC/ND STUDENTS AND FACUL TV ARE 
WELCOME_ Come do your Christmas shoppingn1 
Catholic churches nationwide will be taking up a special collection this weekend to help ease the financial strain of supporting increasing numbers of retired nuns and priests, Indiana church officials say. Most religious communities cannot afford the estimated $10,000 annual cost of caring for an elderly member of a religious order because the number of young clergy men and women who provide financial support is dwindling, they said. Without the special collections, some religious orders may have to break up and sell their property. 
Associated Press 
Studebaker employees are still fighting to win pension benefits for workers who lost their jobs when the Studebaker Corp. shut down 25 years ago. "As long as I have breath in my body, I will continue," says Odell Newburn, the former president of United Auto Workers local 5. Almost 6,000 workers lost their pensions when Studebaker locked the gates to its South Bend factory on Dec. 20, 1963. Many had at least 10 years of service but lost out because the company's pension plan was not fully funded. -Associated Press 
The Rockefeller Center tree, --with the push of a button and a chorus of "Ooohs" --was lighted Monday evening as it officially became Christmas time in New York City. A crowd estimated at more than 70,000 jammed the streets and stared from skyscrapers around the famous plaza and skating rink where a towering Tannenbaum has enchanted visitors for 56 years. When the juice flowed to the 20,000 colored lights on the 75-foot Norway spruce, a piped-in rendition of the Hallelujah chorus from Handel's "Messiah" drowned out the admiring gasps. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
Senior Dinner at Barnaby's tonight on Grape Road. $4 all you can eat from 5 to 7 p.m. -The Observer 
A Mexican Posada, a reenactment of Mary and Joseph's search for shelter, will be presented by the Notre Dame Hispanic Organization. It begins on the steps of LaFortune at 7 p.m. today and ends with a reception in Sorin Hall. -The Observer 
Operation Crossroads Africa can be your chance to volunteer or be a leader for two months in Africa. There will be a slide presentation and information on how to participate today at 8 p.m. at the Center for Social Con­cerns. For more information contact David Baltierra at 283-1021. -The Observer 
Students Interested in summer jobs and internships should come to the Career and Placement Services office before the end of the semester for information about on­campus interviews and other summer job opportunities. 
-The Observer 
AFROTC Cadets Dine-In tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the Monogram Room of the JACC. The guest speaker will be Lt. Col. Turner from Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. 
-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor . . . ........ Kathy Huston Viewpoint Copy Editor ... J. Scharfenberg De•ign A..i•tant Karen Newlove Viewpoint Layout .................. Moira Fox Typesetters... Tim Kieffer Accent Designer ........ . Annette Rowland 
. . . . . . ................ Mike Kolar Typist .................................. Will Zamer News Editor.. Sara Marley ND Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski Copy Editor ............... Cindy Broderick SMC Day Editor ......... ..... Maura Reidy Sports Copy Editor. ........... Greg Guffey 
he Olleentr (USPS '99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday ellc:ept durina eum and vacation periods. neOlleentr is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purcbas· ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina neOlleentr, P.O. Boll Q, Notre DuDe, Indiana 46'~­
ne a..n. ia • lllallber of ne .bloda!M rn.. All reproduction riahts arc racrved. 




The Observer 

The Observer I Kim O'Connor Waiting for computers at the Lafortune Computing Groth. With finals roughly 504,000 seconds away, Center yesterday afternoon are (seated left to right) the state of mind of most students is not likely to be seniors Bridget O'Brien, Mike Flynn, and junior Bob as calm as these three. 
Kilobyte crunch 
page 3 



Judge rejects plea change by father 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Joel Steinberg apparently reeling from damaging testimony by his former lover about the violence that marked their lives, sought Monday to switch his plea to innocent by reason of insanity in the death of the 6-year-old girl they raised. 
The surprise request was tentatively denied, but the judge said Steinberg's attor­neys could resubmit it. The re­quest followed Hedda Nus­sbaum's emotional testimony last week. 

Win A 




Christmas Stocking 
Filled with Christmas Goodies ($30 Value) 
register at 

The Country Harvester 
LaFortune St. Center Basement Hours: Mon-Fri 12:00-6:30 pm 
wing to be held Dec. 15th 4:30 pm, need not be present to win. 
Don't forget we have daily pick up by UPS 
0. 
Ci)'


Eastern Style subs :::J m 
0 

2 Buck Tuesday Any 7'' sub for $2.00 Free Delivery 
271-0SUB (minimum of 3 for delivery) 

Mateo's Thanks you for your support 1636 N. Ironwood Dr. 
* 
Nussbaum, who lived with Steinberg for seventeen years, said Steinberg admitted to her that he had "knocked Lisa down" because the child was staring at him. She said Stein­berg believed Lisa had the power to hypnotize people by staring. 

Continuing her testimony Monday, Nussbaum testified for the first time that she had seen Steinberg physically · abuse Lisa, his illegally adopted daughter. 
Initially, state Supreme Court Justice Harold Rothwax ordered that stricken from the court record, saying a 1985 in­cident she cited was too long ago to be relevant. But Ms. Nussbaum was allowed totes­tify about another incident that she said took place several weeks before Lisa's death. 
"Joel grabbed Lisa by the 
arms and shoulders, shook her 
and threw her down on the 
floor," she recalled. 
Asked if she had ever seen 
bruises on Lisa, she said, "I 
saw bruises on her arms and 
shoulders that looked like 
finger marks after Joel had 
grabbed her and shook her." 
She also said she had never 
hit Lisa or physically abused 
her in any way. 
The child was taken uncon­
scious from Steinberg's apart­
ment the morning of Nov. 2, 
1987, to St. Vincent's Hospital, 
where she died of head injuries 
three days later. 
Ms. Nussbaum, 46, also tes­tified that she had used cocaine, "probably for eight or nine years," and smoked "freebase" cocaine for the last seven of those years. 
In seeking to enter a new plea in the case, Steinberg's lawyer, Ira London, said Nussbaum's testimony last week convinced psychiatrists that Steinberg was not criminally responsible for the little girl's death. The psychiatrists previously believed Steinberg, a lawyer who was debarred after the kil­ling, was mentally competent at the time of the girl's death, London said. 
Barry Scheck, a lawyer for Nussbaum, said psychiatrists who interviewed her during the past year believed there were "indications that Joel was not playing with a full deck." 
Rothwax noted that insanity defenses ordinarily must be filed before a trial begins and within 30 days after a defen­dant enters a plea. 
But. the iud!Ze said. "for 2ood 
cause shown and in the inter­ests of justice," the court has discretion to permit an insanity defense to be presented at any time. 
Rothwax denied the request but said he would give the defense the opportunity to re­submit it with "proper papers." Rothwax said the lawyers should have affidavits from psychiatrists and from themselves describing their evaluation of Steinberg's sanity. 
The prosecution vigorously opposed the plea change. 
"If you grant this motion, I prefer not to proceed," Assis­tant District Attorney Peter Casolaro said. He said the pro­secution had completed 80 per­cent of its case and called some witnesses--including Ms. Nussbaum--who would not have been called had Steinberg originally entered an insanity plea. 
------~~-­

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, December 6, 1988 
Our Holiday Promotion Is aReal Catch 

Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

data 

systems

I
' 
I I T iE OUALI1Y GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON •
I 
Model 1  Mode/20  Mode/40  
W/3.5" floppy  W/20Mb hard drive  w/40Mb hard drive  
3.5" floppy  3.5" floppy  
w/ZMM-149 Amber or White Phospher monitor  
Reg.  $1599  $1899  $2299  
Now  $1499  $1799  $2199  
w/ZCM-1390 RGB Analog color monitor  
Reg.  $1799  $2099  $2499  
Now  $1699  $1999  $2399  
w!ZCM-1490 FrM color monitor  
Reg.  $1899  $2199  $2599  
Now  $1849  $2149  $2549  
Offer good tJuu Dec. 3/, I 988  

MS.Wi~dows and MS..D?S .rue rqistered tndemarb of Micro.oft Corp. Special pririn« offer rood only on purchun dirrctly through Unith Contact(a) listed above by students. faculty and staff for thrir own use. No ocher W.Counb apply. Limit one personal computer and one monitor per individual in any 12·month period. Prices aubject to change without notice. © 1988, Zenith Data Syat•m• 

Tuesday, December 6, 1988 
The Observer 
Another Notre Dame line? AP Photo 
No, but Parisians had a long wait for the Metro as workers has paralyzed some lines inside the city. they crowded on the quay of a subway station in Maintenance workers of the regional express train Paris Monday. The strike of Paris metro transit lines have also been on strike for several days. 

Economists predict slowdown, recession for Bush within two years 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President­
el~ct George Bush will be 
forced to deal with a dramatic 
slowdown in economic activity 
next year that will make his job 
of deficit reduction even toug­
her, the nation's top business 
economists predicted Monday. 
The National Association of 
Business Economists said a 
survey of 200 of its members 
found them pessimistic about 
growth prospects because of a 
belief that inflationary pre­
ssures will mean higher inter­
est rates and thus lower con­sumer demand for cars, houses and other big-ticket items. 
An overwhelming majority of the economists, 88 percent, predicted that Bush would have to deal with a recession in his first two years in office; 40 per­cent forecast that the country would be in a downturn by this time next year. 
The outlook is far more pes­simistic than the official forecast upon which the Reagan administration is basing its final budget request to Congress. That assessment is calling for much faster growth, lower interest rates and falling inflation next year. 


If the business economists prove to be more accurate, it will mean Bush will have to come up with even sharper spending cuts if he is to keep to his pledge of reducing the budget deficit without higher taxes. 
Jay Woodworth, senior econ­omist at Bankers Trust Co. of New York and president of the association, said the business economists believed Bush should make reducing the def­icit his No. 1 priority. 



INCLUDES: 

TRANSPORTATION, HOTEL 
DEC. 8TH, FROM 4 TO 7 PM. IN ACCOMODATIONS, LIFT TICKETS THE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE-2nd FOR TWO DAYS AND TWO NIGHTS 
FLOOR LAFORTUNE. A DEPOSIT OF OF SKIING, THREE MEALS, AND A 
$60 IS REQUIRED (THE BALANCE SUPER BOWL GET-TOGETHER! 
TO BE PAID AFTER BREAK). PLEASE SIGN UP IN GROUPS OF 4, 6, OR 8. 
SENIOR CLASS SKI TRIP 
WHERE: SCHUSS MOUNTAIN 
WHEN JANUARY 27-29 COST $160 

SIGN-UPS: WEDS. DEC., 7TH AND THURS., 
Oh, by the way, Happy 20 th Birthday! 
pageS 


Michel to lead GOP, Wright re-elected 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Rep. Robert Michel, re-elected House Re­publican leader Monday, decried the low ethical quality of the House and called on Democrats to join in an effort to reform ethics standards and election campaign practices and limit outside speaking fees. 
"The record of (ethics) en­forcement in this House is ana­tional disgrace," the Illinois Republican said as House members met in separate party caucuses to choose leaders for the 101st Congress. 
Speaker Jim Wright, D­Texas, unanimously selected by the 260-member Democratic bloc for his second two-year 

· term as the top House officer, disagreed with Michel's as­sessment, but offered to dis­cuss the issues with him. "For the most part, mem­bers of the House . . . are decent, responsible and ethical people," said Wright, whose personal finances and possible divulging of government secrets are under investigation by the House ethics committee. He has denied any wrongdoing. 
The exchanges between Wright and Michel came as both parties elected their leaders for the new Congress, which begins Jan. 3. Two female House members lost bids to crack the all-male top leadership ranks on both sides of the aisle, but Rep. William 
Fora Good Time Call 



Malini 
(For a better time call her roommates) 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
In other business, the Senate announced that additional li­brary phones should be avail­able by finals week. Efforts are 
also  being  made  to  extend  
LaFortune  hours  to  3  a.m.  
during finals week.  

Finally, a mini-postal center is expected to be installed in North Dining Hall by the end of the semester. The postal cen­ter will sell stamps, post cards, and envelopes. 

Atlantis 
continued from page 1 
the leaks," one official said Sunday, on condition he not be identified. 
Several experiments aimed at defining man's role as an ob­server in space also were believed to have been con­ducted during the flight, includ­ing testing of a hand-held opti­cal device that resembles binoculars. 
The mission is commanded by Navy Cmdr. Robert Gibson. Atlantis' other crew members are Col. Richard Mullane, Lt. Col. Guy Gardner and Lt. Col. Jerry Ross of the Air Force and Navy Cmdr. William Shep­herd. 
The mission is the 27th in the shuttle program, the third ded­icated solely to the military and the second since the 1986 Chal­lenger explosion that killed seven astronauts and grounded flights for 32 months. 
-----·----­
Gray, D-Pa., was named to the Democrats' No. 4 post, the highest level ever achieved by a black party member. 
Michel, who was chosen unanimously by the 175­member GOP contingent for a fifth term as minority leader, did not refer to any specific et­hics cases in his remarks, but said "we must more clearly define our ethics rules and then we have to enforce them ... the time for reform is here." · 
He specifically called upon Wright and other Democratic leaders "to join with us in form­ing a bipartisan task force . . . to fashion reforms of ethics standards, outside income and campaign practices." 
In his acceptance speech several hours later, Wright said the House would pass "clean elections legislation," but the only spec.ific proposal he mentioned was to establish uniform poll closing times nationwide. 
Wright also said the new House in the 101st Congress would approve a new Clean Air Act and would work to "clean up those areas of our business practices where management needs regulation." 
He cited the disappearance of banks, corporations and farms in economic reshufflings and leveraged buyouts that "intensify and concentrate eco­nomic wealth in fewer and fewer hands." 

Enter the Zenith Data Systems 

ERSof 
INNOVATION 




COMPETITION 
Win a $5,000* Zenith c:omputer System. 
\\(.-rr ..,c;llching !11r l<llll<liT<l\\\ inll<l\;tl<ll..,. II \<HI\ e de\ eloped or used soft\,an· or IJard\\·an·-tll;lt is coll!patihle \\·ith l.t·rr it l1 l bt;1 s, ... tent--1m l< ltlcts-t< 1<Tc:at i\rh addn·ss ;1 1m 1l >l<'lll <1r task in \ < n1r lield ol..,tll<h. \\e \\;1111 to lwar li·onr \Oil. You could \\ill ;1 S:\IHHr:= /<.'nith Data S\stellls colllputer s~stem f(>l· ~uurselL S:\()()0::' \\oi11J olcoll!put<.'r <'quiplllellt l(n· \our collegt· campus hrin_·n in \<HI I l!;llll<.'. ; 111d 11; IIi< lll;tl I<.'Cog11 jIi< HI fi·< >Ill \<HI r peers. 
For More Information And Official Rules, Ca.lll-800-553-0301. Competition Ends March 1, 1989. Void Where Prohibited. 
data 


systems 

THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON. 
'l'llll' \,tit~~·, t•• L.,.·d ••It < 1111 t'tll I nnlh Il.tl.t ..,, ''''Ill,· ,l.ttld.ud t•thu .lll<~lt.tl pnt 111.t.:-\l11<·11 l-.11 "'''Ill lit t'll.'><~lll\ lllt' Rogt·l Ridun.u1 .\gt'IK\, IrK.-Bt·H·rl\ Hill~. C.-\. © 1!11*1. Zenuh Data S~tems 

Bazaar in LeMans Hall yesterday--a viable alternative to Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Christmas shopping as they browse at the Christmas 
Industrial nations agree to limit imports, but free-trade unresolved 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL-A group of in­dustrialized nations agreed Monday to lower barriers to imports of tropical products such as coffee, cocoa arid bananas, but wide gaps remained over the most con­tentious issues in free-trade talks among more than 100 na­tions. . 
Negotiators expressed pes­simism about the outlook for accords on such controversial issues as farm subsidies, trade 
SPRING BREAK ~ 89 
Reservations Available Now 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX loom $149* Sheraton/Holrday Inn/Gulf Vrew 
STEAMBOAT, CQ  lrom $93*  
Shadow Run/Overlook  
0AYTONA8EACH,Fl  rrom$118*  
Texan Motel  
MUSTANG ISLAND, TX  "om $136*  
Port Royal Condos  

HILTON HEAD ISLAND, SC hom $1 07* Hrlton Head Beach Condos 
Don't Wait Until It's Too Late! Call Toll Free Today 
1·8 1·5911 

in services and international 
protection  of  patents  and  
copyrights.  
Cabinet  ministers  are  

meeting here to give a political push to negotiations at the mid­point of the four-year Uruguay Round of free-trade talks, the biggest and most ambitious of the eight rounds that have been held since formation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade after World War II. 
The agreement covering $25 billion to $30 billion in annual exports of tropical products was reached at about 4 a.m. on 
market access to tropical prod­
ucts  from  Brazil,  Colombia,  
Mexico,  the  Philippines,  
Thailand,  Nicaragua  and  
Malaysia,  GATT  spokesman  

David Woods said. 
Woods said the specific steps that will be taken vary from country to country, and he said the new tariff schedules would not be released by the end of this week. 
The approval of the package reduced the leverage of the United States, which had been seeking to link progress in tropical products to an agree­
The Taggarts were accused of diverting some $1.1 million in PTL funds to pay personal bills and expenses while failing to report the funds as income on their 1983 through 1987 tax returns. 
For those years, according to the indictment, David Taggart evaded some $320,000 in taxes while James Taggart evaded taxes amounting to some $175,000. David Taggart was a special assistant to Bakker as PTL vice president, and James Taggart is a former interior designer for PTL. 
The indictment against Bak­ker and Dortch alleges that in late 1983, Bakker announced construction of a vacation park at Heritage USA that was to in-resigned from PTL in March 1987, only the Grand Hotel and one bunkhouse had been com­pleted, the indictment said. 
According to the grand jury's report, more than 152,000 fully paid partnerships were sold producing at least $158 million in revenue for the evangelical empire built by Bakker and his wife, Tammy, before his downfall in a sex and money scandal in March 1987. 
The indictment alleged that Bakker and Dortch diverted PTL funds for their own use. Bakker and his wife were given bonuses totaling nearly $3.5 million and Dortch obtained bonuses totaling $550,000, the indictment said. 


courage communist revolu­tions in Latin America, said one Soviet expert on Latin America. 
"We are now saying human values take precedence over class values," said the expert, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We are no longer supporting class wars or socialist revolutions in Latin America. We are not against class struggle, but we are saying it should not dominate international relations. We are

T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS, 
not going to get involved." 


WHo•s GOT THE T-SHIRTS? 
Correction 

DENNYS, "Vl MILE NORlli OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. 
Due to a reporting error,

IS OFFERING A "I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS" 
The Observer reported in­
correctly Monday that a stu­

T-SHIRT GIVE P.WAY. 
dent was assaulted on 
Friday near the power plant. 

FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO DENNYS 
The incident took place on 
Saturday.

WE ARE OPEN 24 HRS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 



Visit 
continued from page 1 
Despite Gorbachev's drive 
for "perestroika," or restruc­
turing, Soviet citizens have 
seen no improvement in the 
quality or quantity of food and 
consumer goods, and there is a 
pervasive feeling that things 
actually have worsened. 
A survey by a Moscow 
sociological research institute 
earlier this fall found that only 
2 percent of workers inter­
viewed thought their lives had 
improved significantly under 
Gorbachev. 
Soviet sources said the pres­ssure to devote more resources to domestic needs means Gor­bachev will try to end to the try to convince Fidel Castro in Cuba that it is time to de­emphasize the revolutionary movement in Latin America. 
Izvestia, in an apparent ef­fort to make the point about the new image Gorbachev is trying to project, pointedly reminded readers Monday of an episode in which former leader Nikita Khrushchev pounded his shoe on a table at the United Nations in 1960. 
Without naming Khrushchev, the paper said many still recall "how our leader looked then in the hall of the General Assembly, how he jumped up from his place, trying to interrupt speakers he didn't like, pounded his fist on the table (and not only his fist)." 
In his talks with Castro, Gor­I 
1
bachev will emphasize that the Soviet Union will no longer en­
~ 


Viewpoint 
Tuesday, December 6, 1988

Page a 
The many benefits I_ P.O. Box Q 
Aside from a commitment to actually 

Dismas House 
live at the House, other students help

invites volunteers the Dismas community with cooking


of laziness 
Lying on my couch, I casually reached over to my remote control to change the radio station, as I do not enjoy listening to commercials. A friend of mine then accused me of being one of t~e laziest people he knew. Upon my askmg why, he noted that I lived in a 12' x 15' cubicle and I used a remote cont~ol on my stereo. I also plugged my TV mto the stereo. I told him it im­proves the sound of an otherwise cheap TV. But he saw right through me. He knew I did it so I would not have to get off the couch to control the sound of the t~levision. When he called me a lazy pig, I wanted to hit him, but I could not find anything within my reach to throw at him. 
Paul Kane 
guest column 
I started thinking about this whole lazy thing. In the end, I decided it is not so bad to be lazy after all. (I have not yet figured out if my realizations were valid or if I was just creating some warped justification for lying on the couch a little longer.) Being lazy is really quite an asset. Think about it. Most of the greatest innovations of humankind are due to laziness. 
Why did our ancestors create the wheel? Because they wanted to get from one place to the next quickly? No. They were lazy! Just think, if it had not been for those lazy cavemen thousands of years ago, we would not have Lam­borghini Countach 5000s today, would we? And if Mr. Bell had not been so lazy, instead of creating the telephone, he would have just stuck his head out the door and said, "Yo, Watson!" 
It is said that necessity is the mother of invention. But I would like to propose that we change that to laziness is the mother of invention. If it were not for laziness, we would not have such great things as escalators, golf carts, and those buttons that open trunks from in­side the car. 
Laziness is also efficient. For exam­ple, as I lie here on my couch writing this, I can easily reach my fridge to 
Doonesbury 
grab a drink (i.e. efficient floor plan­ning due to laziness) . However, to turn on my television, I must get up and take a couple of steps to reach it since my stereo controls only the sound. Ap­parently I was not quite lazy enough (but fear not; I am constantly figuring out ways to overcome this obstacle as well). 
If it were not for lazi­ness, we would not have such great things as es­calators, golf carts, and those buttons that open trunks from inside the car. 
Lazy people usually end up working harder than others too. Now of course this sounds silly, but think ab~ut it. Gen~ erally lazy people will work much harder at getting out of work than if they had acutally done the work itself. When I lived at home, I never realized it would have been infinitely easier mowing the lawn than to go through all the trouble avoiding mowing the lawn. ~owever, as I was constantly challeng­mg my creative and innovative abilities in order to avoid the work, I think I am a much better person today because of it. 
Lazy people usually end up working harder than others too. 
~astly I would like to point out that someday, when you are an employer out there in the "real world," never discount the lazy people. For those are the people who are always looking for short cuts. They get the same amount of work done in less time. And by making the job easier on themselves, they are much happier in the long run and thus more productive. 
So I do not know about you, but in the future when I am. asked in a job inter­view what my biggest weakness is, I will hold my head high and say, "I am lazy, sir. And proud of it." 
Dear Editor: 

The Dismas House student group is a relatively new project working in cooperation with the Dismas Board of South Bend to operate a community of former prisoners and students. This community promotes bonds of trust and friendship between students and former prisoners, and serves as an un­structured rehabilitation for the former prisoners, who often need to be recon­ciled with society. 
The rationale of the Dismas program is based on the experience that men and women released from prison rarely have an accepting family to return to, and many have difficulty making an immediate adjustment to life and work after being released without some kind of support structure. The church and community have a responsibility to as­sist these men and women in their ad­justment in becoming responsible and productive citizens. The Dismas family provides an environment to ease their transition into the community for the critical first few months. 
Men and women from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are needed to live as student residents at Dismas House and provide an environment of openness and acceptance as members of the core community for a commitment of one semester. Living in community with people of such diverse backgrounds is probably the most challenging and rewarding experience of Dismas life, and has provided for student residents an unprecedented opportunity for self­discovery, acceptance, and awareness. 

Garry Trudeau 


HeY, /..IKe, IJON'T

GOOOBY. 
&/ IMHAPPY
I'M 
FOR YOU GUYS!

50RR.Y.
1 l/1<£, GCOO WO< I 
50. IS THAT 
IT~ ANYMOF£. 
1-&TM&

OW61Rt...­
GltXJ<.

FRJEN[)S 
AROUND? \ 
IT'S 01<:4Y,

BAMBI? SIAI&t.THEAT<r. 
DADDY'S JUST

KIM? ~lNG A JCRJ<. 
evening meals, house cleaning, main­tenance, and general involvement and support. Further involvement in prison work is available as well through such programs a Inmate-Outmate and Victim-Offender Reconciliation. In­volving the outside community as much as possible is an important part of the philosophy of Dismas, and visitors and friends are always welcome at the House, located at 521 S. St. Joseph Street. Anyone interested in participat­ing in the Dismas program should come to the Center for Social Concerns' Ac­tivities Night in January to receive 
more information. 
Tara Durney Center for Social Concerns 
Dec. 4, 1988 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries sub­mitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the briefer the peice, the greater its chances of reach­ing print. 



Quote of the Day 
"The heart is not judged by how much you love, but by 
how  much you're  loved  by  
others."  
The  Nylons  


"It's what they call magic" 



Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  f dltOr·m·Chtel Managmg Ed1tor  Chros Murphy Chros Donnelly  Busmess Manager Adver11smg Des1gn Manager  John Oxroder Molly Kollen  
News Ed1tor  Regos Coccoa  Adver11smg Manager  Linda Goldschmodt  
News Edotor  Mark Mclaughhn  Productton Manager  Bernadette Sholls  
The Observer IS !he 1ndependen1 newspaper pubhshed by !he sludenls of !he Un1vers11y of  Vtewpomt Edttor  Matt Slaughler  Systems Manager  Mark Rodgeway  
Noire Dame du Lac and Sa1n1 Mary·s College 11 does no! necessaroly reflecl lhe pohc1es of  Sports Edttor  Marty Slrasen  Controller  Todd Hardoman  
the admon1strat1on of e1lher 1nstotu110n The news IS reported as accurately and obJectively as  Accent Ed1tor  Belh Healy  Graph1c Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
poss1ble Uns1gned ed11oroals represent the op1noon of !he matoroty of the Ed1toroal Board  Samt Marys Edttor  Sandy Ceromele  
Commentaroes. leners and !he lns1de Column presenl !he v1ews of lheor authors Column  Photo Ed1tor  Mochael Moran  
space IS ava1labte lo all members of the communoty and the free expreSSIOn of vary1ng  
op1n1ons on campus. lhrough letters. IS encouraged  Founded November 3,1966  


-




Accent 
Tuesday, December 6, 1988 


Bradys Return for Christmas 
T 
hey're ba-ack! No, not the "Pol­audience to their new husbands and tergeist" cast, the Brady Bunch. wives as well as Mike and Carol's The bunch that entertained all three grandchildren. All thP. original America with their wholesome family cast members are back except for fun is back with some special Susan Olsen, who played Cindy. She Christmas cheer in a two-hour CBS has been replaced by Jennifer movie of the week entitled "A Very Runyan. Brady Christmas." 
On Sunday, December 18 (yes, "The Brady Bunch" was a 
that's after finals so there's no ex-mainstay of Friday night television viewing for five years on ABC begin­ning in 1969, when the children 
JOE BUCOLO ranged in ages from seven to four­teen years old. The show has been highly visible in reruns ever since. 
To Be Continued ... After "The Brady Bunch," Florence Henderson made guest ap­pearances on "The Love Boat" and 
cuse for missing it), CBS wiU present starred in "Little Women." Cur­this holiday special, which, if ratings rently, she hosts a celebrity cooking are as high as Santa is jolly, will show on cable's Country Television become a holiday classic. Network. Robert Reed earned Emmy­
nominations for his performances in 
A lot of things have changed since "Roots," "Rich Man, Poor Man," the last episode of "The Brady and "Medical Center." He also Bunch" (and even since the short­starred in "The Defenders" and "The lived series "The Brady Brides"). Runaways." Carol (Florence Henderson) is a real Ann B. Davis, who earned an estate agent who has saved her com­Emmy award prior to "The Brady mission checks to buy Mike (Robert Bunch," continues to do dinner 
." I
''f

Reed) a dream vacation for theatre, usually starring in a play 
II-

Christmas. Ironically (and as any written especially for her by "Brady true "Brady Bunch" fan might have Bunch" producer Lloyd Schwartz. Ill guessed), Mike has saved his money She is also quite active in charity from his architectural projects to buy work in Denver, where she lives. Ill Carol a dream vacation for Christmas. The two gifts "cancel" Stay Tuned: The long-running ABC fll each other out, and the loving Brady soap opera "Ryan's Hope" has been parents decide to use the money to cancelled. Its final episode will air in help their "bunch" return home for January and there are no plans to Christmas. replace it with a new soap opera. 
The final twelve hours of ABC's 
Alice (Ann B. Davis) is happy to "War and Remembrance" will air in return, because she's been tossed out May. by her husband who has his eyes on a Due to a severe foot injury, Ken 
younger woman. Each of the Brady Wahl of CBS' "Wiseguy" will not be children has a special reason for not able to film upcoming episodes of the 
wanting to return. Those crises range show. His character will enter the from broken marriages to unemploy­hospital, and another Federal agent 
ment, all problems the Bradys don't will be sent undercover to replace want to share with their parents or him. siblings. Finally, Carol and Mike face Valerie Harper, around whose char­their own crisis which threatens to acter NBC's "The Hogan Family" turn the Brady family reunion into a (then called "Valerie.") was 
very "un-Brady-like" affair. originally based, will start a new In addition to the main Brady fam­situation comedy on CBS in the near ily, this movie introduces the viewing future. 
Of Professors and Beer 
I 
MATT CLEARY learn words like "squid" and ulty members are not scary cent of Japan is Christian, accent writer "seaweed." So, I just pretend 
• or unapproachable --they are none of the people see a con­everything is chicken and I friends. flict in attending a Catholic usually don't know what it don't ask questions. university and interacting is that I'm eating for lunch. And this is good, of course, with the priests. Hence, I The cafeteria workers do not So I was sitting in the dorm because friends drink with found myself in this priest's speak English. I can speak cafeteria one day, and who friends. So, one night a few room, on the fifth floor of my some Japanese, but not came and sat down next to • guys in the dorm decided that dorm. It turns out that this is enough to understand the me but Father Currie, the it was about time they drank a common occurrence, be­workers. The Japanese stu­dean of Sophia University's again with Fr. Currie, and cause Fr. Currie was fully dents with whom I dine can Comparative Culture pro­they asked me to come along. prepared with a refrigerator speak a good bit of English, gram, in which I am enrolled. I didn't know how to say full of beer, and he was but they are taught things The Japanese have a custom other faculty members eat "What, you mean with a generous in keeping our like "How are you today?" which is strange to with the students. They also priest?" in Japanese, so I just glasses full. and "Oh, you are a lost for­Americans, though perhaps it talk, shower, do laundry, 'and went. eigner?" They usually don't shouldn't be. Teachers and live with the students. Fac-Now, I'm not suggesting 
that anyone approach his pro­fessor and invite him to a kegCalvin and Hobbes Bill Wa~erson party. Nobody here is foolish enough to get drunk with a
I()W OOES \\E. P~'( R:>R. il\E 
priest; we just drink with ­

AA'N W>.i£R\r.l5 "E \&S 1Q 
them. And, throughout the 

M~ lUE 1C>'(S? I()W !X6 
\.IE ~'( "\'3 El'/£S ? course of the evening, I dis­covered that priests are not perfect--actually human. Fr. Currie, for example, hates Republicans. But other than that, he is a very wise man, and very interesting to talk to. You can learn a lot from a priest if you can drink with 
So, although about one per-him. 
With the exception of Cindy, all the original Bradys are back, reunHed this Christmas season in 2-hour television movie, "A Very Brady Christmas." 
-page 10 LA routs Chicago 
•


1n big NFC battle 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM --The Los An­geles Rams kept their playoff hopes alive and jeopardized Chicago's chance of a fifth straight division title with a 23­3 victory Monday night behind the receiving of Henry Ellard and the running of Greg Bell. 
The Rams defense limited the Bears to just 213 yards, 62 of that coming in the final two minutes. 
The Rams ended a four-game losing streak as well as a five­game winning streak by Chicago, which was forced by injuries to Jim McMahon and Mike Tomczak to go with third­string quarterback Jim Har­baugh. He completed only 11 of 30 passes for 108 yards with two interceptions in his first NFL start. 
The Rams are 8-6, a game behind San Francisco and New Orleans in the NFC west. Chicago, 11-3, remained one game ahead of Minnesota in the NFC central, but now face the possibility of losing the title it has won every year since 1984. The Bears would finish behind the Vikings if they lose at Min­nesota in two weeks because the Vikings won the first meeting of the teams, 31-7 at Chicago. 
The Rams led 6-3 at the half on 25-and 27-yard field goals by Mike Lansford, both set up by Chicago turnovers. 
Then Los Angeles put the game away with two explosive drives that resulted in touch­downs within five minutes. 
The first came at the end of a five-play, 66-yard drive with 
1:43 left in the third quarter on a 31-yard pass from Jim Everett to Ellard, who finished the evening with six catches for 132 yards. He leads the NFL with 1,248 receiving yards. 
The second came 3:09 into the final quarter on a 1-yard run by Greg Bell. 
Tuesday, December 6, 1988
The Observer 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
WVFI-640 AM will carry the Notre Dame The ND Boxing Club is holding a meeting (2-0) basketball game with Indiana (3-3) for anyone interested in joining the club or par­tonight. Jamey Rappis and Bob Splude provide ticipating in next semester's Bengal Bouts. ~he the play-by-play and analysis starting at 7 p.m. meeting will be today at 5 p.m. in the boxmg -The Observer gym located at Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC. For 
more information, call Mike Noone at x3386. 

The Synchronized Swim Club will not hold any more practices this semester. There Fiesta Bowl student tickets will be will be a meeting Jan. 19 at 7 p.m. at the Rolfs distributed only to students, ticket manager pool. -The Observer Bubba Cunningham emphasized Monday. Stu­
.. · Cl b · · dents probably will have to bring more picture
The ND R!JWin~ U . Is holdmg a identifications than just a student ID when they 
mandatory meetl~g tom~ht at 6 · 30 for all mem­b~rs of the women s varsity team wh? are plan­mng to row next semester. The meetmg wlll be held in the basement of LaFortune. Members 
. d
of the women's varsity team who can not attep the meeting should contact Suzanne at x4220 or Kelly at 284-5002. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will hold its final meeting of the semester tonight at 8:30 in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Anybody who has turtlenecks must either bring in his or her money or the remaining turtlenecks. Money for tryouts ($20) also will be taken. The itinerary will be given for those going to Steamboat, who must make sure to bring in his or her insurance form. Any quel'jtions should be directed to Woodsy at 288-5423. -The Observer 
try to pick up their tickets. Students who cancel their ticket orders now will get their money back but no refunds will be given in Arizona. 
Th 'ob 
-e server 
The Chicago Cubs made a nine-player trade with the Texas Rangers Monday. The deal sends all-star outfielder Rafael Palmeiro to Texas with pitchers Drew Hall and Jamie Moyer. Relief pitcher Mitch Williams comes to Chicago with pitcher Paul Kilgus, shortstop Curtis Wilkerson, Steve Wilson and two minor leaguers. -Associated Press 
Jack Elway was fired Monday as coach of the Stanford Cardinal. Elway had led the Car­dinal for the past five years. 
The Observer Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 

.Ciassifieds 
NOTICES ACADEMICSUSINESS TYPING 237-1949  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO COLORADO FOR CHRISTMAS. CAN SHARE GAS AND DRIVING. DAYS FLEXIBLE. CAN PRO· VIDE STOPOVER FOR THOSE GOING FARTHER WEST. CALL PETE AT 283·  Need 4 FIESTA Bowl Tix. Will pay. 259·2512 5·10 P.M. I need 2 Fiesta Bowl GA's. Call272-4223.  SENIOR SKI TRIP SIGNUPS DEC. 7 AND 8 IN SENIOR CLASS OFFICE FROM 4 TO 7 PM. DON'T MISS OUT!!  "The Year Zero"·"The Killing Fields" will be shown in Grace's Pit sponsored by Pasquerilla East on 7 p.m. Wednesday. Following the movie a native Cambodian lrom P.E. will share her personal expe· riences  I know it is early but I'm already looking for a ride to MpiS!St. Paul. I can leave anytime after 4:00PM on Dec. 14. Please call 284-4430. For Sala..one way pta~ ticket !rom  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Yogi's Yogurt, Now delivering COLOMBO YOGURT Mon. lues, Thurs night 7:00-9:30 2n-4337. Typist-Experienced. Fast-Letter Quality· Will pick up-258.()369 LOST/FOUND LOST: black Wayfarer Ray-Ban sun· glasses (2·3 weeks ago) I can identify theml Please call 4666 LOST: • gold-fiiCed Timex W81ch burg~~ndy b8nd, Rom•n numeral• Loet l•t• on 1t1.10 either ne•r LeMen'• ahuttle atop, on ahuttle or be­IWMn M•ln Circle and South GREAT Hnllmentel v•lue, REWARD PLEASE cell Milt! II 3810 Lost: room key w1th 209 stamped on FOUND·. Two tackels. (actually ,these were taken accidentally by a few intox· icated H.S. lriends from Sr. bar the Sat. ol Penn St. game.) Please call J.C. at 1001 LOST: Blue bookbag lrom So. Dining HaiV Lunch Fnday. Contains nothin of Value except my notes. No questions asked. MIKE 271-8306  4601. We need the following NO football memorabilia: Any GA stubs from any home games: Pictures of "Nobody Leaves NO II 1" banner during Miami game: Photos ol Hogs playing in mud on lield after Penn State. We will pay you lor these items. Please call Chris at 283· 3169 or Pete at 283-4601. Female Roommate wanted for 2nd se· master to share apartment in RunAway Bay. For details call 259·7911 evenings. SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks lrom campus. PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. Just oH N.D. Ave. Phil 233-2342 Are you from the Detroit Area and looking for a person to share the roadtrip to Tempe with for the game Well. call Kelley at II tn9. I'm willing to go and return on any date as long as rt includes Jan 31 IBM PC-DUAL FLOPPY DISK DRIVE, PRINTER, MONOCHROME MONITOR. $1400. AFTER 6 PM 2~1238. Need a ride to D.C. and a merry ChristmasiPiease help with first. Call Mike x3574.Will share usual. Need ride back to NO trom Florida on January 1. __ <;:all Brenda 239-6193 FOR SALE  I NEED 4 FIESTA BOWL GA'S CALL KRISTEN 3719 PERSONALS UNIV PIZZA DLVY 2n-ll889 MATH TUTOR-234-3878. CLUB 23 Excellent stuffed and regular plzzll. Eel In or carry out. 234-3541 hlag. PRAY TO ST. JUDE OF BUYAIELL FIESTA BOWL. BUY 90-250, SELL 125-400. AIR & HOTEL AVAILABLE. THE TICKET EXCHANGE, TEMPE 800-727-3287. MATEO'S SUB SHOP FREE DELIVERY 271-oSUB "THE EASTERN STYLE SUB" CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS DELIVERED TO YOUR SWEETIE Coma In and choose • stocking, fill It whh goodlea and top It with mistletoeI Let ua deliver It for you anywhere on  RIDERS NEEDED to BOSTON I So.NEW HAMPSHIRE for X-Mas Break! can take up to 4 call BECCA II 4246 Pitt Club Bua Slgnupa Pitt Club Bus Slgnups Tues. Lftne 7 p.m. $80 Roundtrip ???'a cell Mike or Kevin x3322 Leave Right After Last Final VITO'S BARBERSHOP 4.50 HAIRCUTS Walk-ins Welcome Tony says:"Never a Dull Moment" 1523 Lincolnway West·S.B. FRIDAY, DEC. 9, IS THE LAST ISSU OF THE OBSERVER. GET YOUR GOODBYES AND CHRISTMAS GREETING CLASSIFIEDS IN BEFORE THURSDAY, DEC. 8, 3 P.M. OHering a ride to BuHalo for break. Call Tom at 1596 JUNIOR CLASS SKI TRIPI Jan 27-29 Sign up with $50 at class office Tue, Wed, Thur 2-4 ·························································•·· JUNIOR CLASS SKI TRIP IS COMING! Sign up now!l 2·4 Tu,Wed,Th HAPPY 21 HEBENSCHNEBEN-GLOBINI (and whatever else thay call ya) HAVE LOTS 0' FUNI LOVE, THE FOUR WHO LOVE VA (and we'll miss you. too!)  HEY BERNIE: Someone told me that they missed the obnoxious personals we used to write to each other. Consider this an official invi­tation to be obnoxious and crude. Jimmy COME HEAR... ALAN FAYE & THE McNEILLS THURS. 9:00 PM at THEO'S Sponsored by the Overseas Develop­ment Network-a $2 donation Ia re­quested (for a Zimbabwe project) but If you're broke, come anywaytl NDWRAPPINGPAPER ISHEREII CHECK IT OUTI AT THE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE! IT IS THE PERFECT GIFT FOR GIFTSI (not available the bookstore) SEIIoiORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! TUESDAY, 12·6 BARNABY'S! BARNABY'S! BAR· NABY'SI ALL YOU CAN EATI 5-? $4 BE THERE! SENIORS I SENIORS I SENIORS! BARNABY'S..TONIGHT..$4.. ALL YOU CAN EATI BE THERE! SSENIORS..SENIORS..SENIORS..  South Bend to Richmond, Va. on Decem· bar 15. Great price. Call Tim at283·2091. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER hea the perfect Chrlatmes glfta for lhoH ape­clal people In your life. Conveniently loc•tad In the LaFortune Student Can­tar b8Hment. Open Mon-Fri-12 noon-6:30pm. t need 12 PORK-FACED SATAN T-shirts for X-mas-Others maybe Call (912)· 786· 7358 p.m. DC or Baltimore I NEED XMAS RIDE ON!AFTER 12114 CALL LISA 2663 1st Annual RLF Chnstmas Carol Eve WED DEC 7..Be at Stonehenge at BPM ready to sing and have a good time. ATTENTION:CHUCKIE 00 NOT DROP VASOLIIOKAY? WILL SEE YOU AT LOGAN CENTER NEXT SEmESTER AND NO OC G.L. STOLP·STAR, Even though you already drank your birthay present, you still haven't had a real 21st. in our sense of the word (have you spoken with Ralph yet?) Beware..cameras roll. Made a trip to Osco's lately? Love, Ben, Barna, Mis, Toyota, and the other awesome people from Lewis. 1. "Yes, he wore suspenders I" 2. Could he dance?· "Well, he moves" 3. Did you have a good time?· 'Well, umm. no..."  
the Notre Dame or St. Mary'a campua.  SENIORS THANKS FOR GREAT XMAS  4. "Now Dr. H. probably thinks I'm  
LOST: set of dorm and car keys on bud· weiser and N.D. class of '44 keyring. Please call X1661 LOST:Rh1nestone necklace somewhere between Knott hall. Momssey hall, and 0·1 parking lot on Fnday, Dec. 2. Please call II lound-4959 FOUND: AT SENIOR FORMAL, very nice man's watch Call x1347 or 2n·6224 to  1978 Ford L TO Wagon. Good Condition $925 or best oHer. 684·4621. IMPRESS THE GUY OR GIRL OF YOUR CHOICE WITH YOUR CULlURE AND GRASP OF THE FINE ARTS-TAKE A DATE TO THE NUTCRACKER BALLET IN CHICAGO ON DECEMBER 9 FOR A PRE FINALS BREAKII THIS IS OPENING NITE AND IS NOW SOLD OUT. KNOCK SOMEONE'S SOCKS  The Country Harvester LaFortune Student Center basement Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30 pm 239-6714 THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS TOUCH "REAL MISTLETOE"  I need riders to South FLA for XMAS Will share$ and driving. Call Kevin x1540. Top Ten Quotes from Friday night .. and " We're Knott Explaining ... " 1." Deb. What's the bandaid doing on the floor?" 2." Allison's bubble dress went poof."-­Dave 3." How did we get stuck with the the stairs?"..oon & Deb 4." Does anybody have concealer?" ..stacey, the  FORMAL TO ALL THOSE WHO HELPED OUT: KERDS WINKS, SUZANNE,KAREN,KATHLEEN,ROSIE MOLLIE,NAPES,BEEFER,TOM,TODD, CHRISTINE, A VERY SPECIAL THANKS THE SENIORS WHO WENT REALLY APPRECIATED THE HARD WORK! GREAT JOB Ill THANKS, THE ORGANIZERS  a nerd" 5. So, did you mash with him?· "Well, yes" 6. D1d you like it?-'Well, no" 7. "Pardon me, will you check the urinal lor my calculator please" 8. So B, do you like getting tied down on the lloor? 9. B. how did you describe your date?  
identity.  OFF AND ASK THEM NOW. CALL NORM AT 113255 FOR MY LAST 2 TIX.  at  next morning. 5." Marty, it's so hard to keep up with your hands." ?? 6." Really  THE ICEBERG DEBATES if interested in joining the OFF ..CAMPUS  10. Calculators are lor w1mps· THIS IS WAR!!!  
guys, I had to use my shirt for a pillow."  -DEBATE TEAM please call:  ·V,J.M  
FOR RENT  PLANE TICKET. ONE-WAY OR ROUND TRIP S.B. TO WHITE PLAINS. N.Y. 12114  The Country Harvester LaFortune Student Center basement  Dave 7." Don stop tickling my feet." -­Marty 8." Hey Marty, this is supposed to  283·2569  P.S. N, your next-..  
RETURN 1117. CHEAPII CALL JIM AT  Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30pm  be a fast dance." 9." How can we sleep  
277-9956  with all this noise in the room, and no.  JUDY S..  
HOUSE AVAILABLE 2ND SEMESTER  we do not mean Dan's snoring?"--A uni­ Vuole andare Venerdi sera  
AND  1989-90.  WELL  MAINTAINED,  81 FORD LTD. Good condition. Call287·  RATPICK·IF YOU COME BACK FROM  versal consensus 10." Oh, we got home  ai uno film comico "Scrooged"? Va bene?  Favonte events of the weekend: 11. Nat·  
FURNISHED,  SECURE.  UP  TO  5  4240  LONDON A HIPPIE YOUR DAD WILL  about one... in the afternoon."  Rispondi subito per favore. Ciao. Bella.  You are so cooll1 O.Thumper-1 nice signs  
BEDROOMS  WASHEMlRYER.  BEAT YOU  SENSELESS  AND  THEN  ·II Tuo "Schmucko"  Th9fesa & Kath. 9.Cab nde home all 9  
CLOSE  TO CAMPUS.  COMPETITIVE  I'LL GET MY TURN. T.J. AND I WENT  REPRESENT YOUR HALL  P.S. Benito Mussolinil  ol us. 8.We had to kiSS in. 7.Guess what·  
- RENT. 264-6010. PRIVATE ROOM  AVAILABLE  IN  TICKETS  4 WHEELIN' LAST NIGHT AT 3 A.M. WE'LL TELL YOU THAT STORY LATER .... HASBY  IN THE ICEBERG DEBATESIII  Formaggio!  you're under the mistletoe. 6.Take the damn p1cture. 5.Kir's messy bus ride home. 4.My 3 best lriends left me. 3.Kath  
LARGE 4 BR STUDENT HOUSE ON  DEAR DSN2-WHAT DO YOU MEAN  tells all. 2.Kath and Kir partied 'til they  
NO  AVE.  GOOD  NEIGHBORHOOD.  BUYING FIESTA BOWL  If you can decorate baskets & wreaths,  ICEBERG DEBATES  '(BY CHOICE)'? I'M LEERY OF THESE  puked. 1.First weekend at a REAL dorm.  
FOR INFO 259-7801  DAYS, 255-5852  TOPS PAID  I have •  job for youI Please contact  SO COOL. ..  CLASSIFIED ENCOUNTERS SO COME  
EVENINGS.  800-288-2461.  Carol at The Country Harvester, 239­ UP WITH A GOOD WAY TO MEET. I'M  HEY EVERYONE! Today, MIKE HENN  
6714. Please cell for an appointment.  Young Frenchman ,desperately seeking  CURIOUS. SINCERELY-V  Ia 211 Call x1633 to w1sh him a HAPPY  
3 bdrm house close to campus. New car­pel, pa1nt, wallpaper, appliances. SSOOino. plus dep No pets. 289-0109.  I NEEO FIESTA BOWL TtX. WILL PAY BIG $$$$$$. CALL C.B AT 4364.  BAKER'S SPECIAL Freah pecan halvea & places, diced dates, fresh almonds whole & places  companionship, enjoys evening strolls and dinner by candlelight. Would like to share a week of intimacy with a warm, sincere person. Call Jean-Francois at  SUMMER JOBS-Information about summer job opportunities and on  BIRTHDAY! Love, Your Favorite "SMC Chicks" Broadcast News at SMC Carroll Aud.  
WANTED: 1 OR 2 FIESTA BOWL TIX  European chocolate reedy for making  287·4240 to arrange.  campus Interviews at Career & Place­ Dec. 6·8, $1 9&11:15  
WANTED  BY NO ALUM, $125 EA. (415) 781-9570 EXT. 4132 DAYS OR EVENING (COLLECT) AT (415) 456-9240.  your own apeclal candles. BUY NOW FOR YOUR HOLIDAY BAKING  oHering ride to BuHalo or anywhere along rt 90. Leaving sat 17th. 277·2264  ment Services, lower level, Hesburgh Library.  Taka a break and catch a movie Broad· cast News Carroll Aud $1 SMC Dec. 6-8  
The Country Harvester  SUMMER  JOBS-Information  about  at9&11:15  
OVERSEAS  JOBS.  SfiOG.2000  mo.  AIRLINE  TICKET  S.B  TO  LaFortune Student Center basement  Fiesta Bowl  summer  job  opportunities  and  on  
Summer, Yr.round,AII Countrlea, All  SARASOTA,FL  Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30pm  Need a ride? Rndtrip tix lrom O'Hare..  campus Interviews at Career & Place­ SMC  X-MAS  BAZAAR  all  week  in  
flelda. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­ 1223-S8-1/.lo89  ROUND  TRIP  $250  239-6714  Ren<>Phoenix,  Best  oHer.  Call  Candy  ment Services, lower level, Hesburgh  LeMans  9·5  get  your  shopping  done  
IN04-Corone Del Mar, CA 921125  X7575  X2585  Library.  here.  
.....  

----~----~---­
The Observer page 11 
-..... 


. It's never been difficult for students to convince their parents of the need for a Maciqtosh® computer at school. 
Persuading them to write the check, however, is another thing altogether. 
Which is whyApple created the Student lDan-to-Own Program. An ingenious loan program that makes buying a Macintosh as easy as using one. 
Simply pick up an application at the location listed below, or call800-831-LOAN. All your parents need to do is fill it out, sign it, and send it. If they qualify, they'll receive a check for you in just afew weeks. 
There's no collateral. No need to prove financial hardship. No applica­tion fee. 
Best ofall, the loan payments can be spread over as many as 10 years. 
I 
Which gives you and your parents plenty of time to decide just who pays 

l
for it all. 

" ! 
t
-® 
Introducing_Apple'sStudent Loan-to-own Program 1 

-... ..... Notre Dame Computer Store 
-I
\ Computer Center/Math Building j 
I 
l 
--lI 

I 
© 1988 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



' ll 
I 1 
Tuesday, December 6, 1988

page 12 The Observer 
Belles fall short in tri meet Duke remains No. 1 
By ELIZABETH sing first by .30 of a second. 2:09.18. Yvette Ditmyer also VANDERSARL The Belles looked to be a showed promise in the 50 and 
in college hoop poll

Sports Writer well-rounded team, claiming at 100 free placing in the top five least first, second or third in in both events. Associated Press 1,266 points from a nation­
The Saint Mary's swimming team travelled to Valparaiso last Saturday and fell just short of victory in a tri meet. Teams from Butler and Valparaiso also participated. 
"It all came down to the last relay," said coach Dennis Cooper. 
The tight battle for places be­came obvious in the first event of the meet. The Belles' relay team of Lori Swedish, Heather McLeod, Colette Rush and Mic­helle Colburn clocked in at 4:26.29, a time less than a second from Butler's first place 4:25.94. 
each event. 
An especially strong event for the Belles was the 1000 free in which Peggy Halloran and Jenny Glaser placed second and third respectively. 
The 1000 meter diving as­sisted the Belles in accumulat­ing points as Kristen Cavanaugh received 152.8 points, earning her a first place. Ann Blake easily claimed third place with a 22­point lead over her nearest competitor. 
Although it was only the second meet of the season, two freshmen gave strong perfor­mances. Kathleen Golski took third in both the 100 and 200 free, with times of 1:00.11 and 
Colburn's 2:28.79 in the 200 IM received a second place. Two other team members of the medley relay team, McLeod and Rush, earned second and third places in their specialty areas of the 100 breast and 100 fly. 
It was anyone's meet as the gun sounded for the start of the 400 free relay. The Belles swam hard and recorded 4: 11.73-­good enough for third place. Butler and Valparaiso tied with 61 points, while Saint Mary's tallied 52. 
Despite a disappointing loss, the Belles proved that although they are a small team they have the ability to stick with the competition. 
STORRS, Conn. --After years of playing like a punch-drunk fighter in a league of heavyweights, Connecticut's basketball team awoke Monday to find it had gained new respect. 
The Huskies, with vic­tories in their first two games, were ranked No. 18 in The Associated Press poll. 
"I'm happy to be in the polls," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said before his team played Marist Monday night. 
Meanwhile, Duke and Mic­higan continued to top the poll. 
Duke, 4-0, received the same number of first-place votes as last week, 47, and wide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. Mic­higan, 5-0, held second place, with nine first-place votes and 1,214 points. 
Syracuse, 7-0, and Geor­getown, 2-0, swapped places from a week ago. Each received one first-place vote and 1,131 and 1,075 points, respectively. Seton Hall, also in the Big East, was No. 20. 
The Atlantic Coast Confer­ence had four members in the Top Twenty Duke, No. 8 North Carolina, No. 12 Georgia Tech and No. 19 North Carolina State --as did the Big Ten, with Michigan, No.5 Iowa, No.7 Illinois and No. 14 Ohio State. 

Indiana 

continued from page 16 
job of getting teams ready for a defensive battle. He's very capable offensively of exploit­ing your people defensively." 
Like Notre Dame, Indiana has several new faces. Joe Hil­lman, who played in the Oak­land A's instructional program and did not start practice until November, is the only signifi­cant contributor left from the 1987 national championship team. Gone are junior college transfers Dean Garrett and Keith Smart, while Ricky Cal­loway opted to transfer to Kansas. 
Sophomore guard Jay Ed­wards, who was in a substance abuse program earlier this year, is the leading Indiana scorer at 21 points per game, followed by Todd Jadlow at 16.5. 
The Hoosiers had trouble handling the Louisville press Saturday and the Irish will try 

LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o hlesoving Red Cross CPR course.
+.American Red C1"088 
II 

! 
* 
: 
-t 
* 
* 
* 
* 
: 
--* 

to force an uptempo game. The new uptempo style of the Irish has worked thus far this season, as they have scored 92 and 81 points in two games.. 
"I think it's obvious we want an uptempo game," Phelps said. "That's going to be our style all year. We want to keep pressure on the ball full court." 
Freshman LaPhonso Ellis has been consistent for the Irish, scoring at a 19.5 clip and averaging 13 boards in the first two games. Junior co-captain Jamere Jackson averages 14.0 points per game and sopho­more Kevin Ellery has hit 6-of-9 three pointers while scoring 
10.5 points per game. 
The Notre Dame offense has been potent, averaging 86.5 points in the two wins. Even more impressive is the rebounding margin. The Irish average 48 boards a game, while opponents pull down only 31.5. 
Even with two big wins under his belt, Phelps remains guar­dedly optimistic about the season. 
"I think you just have to put things in perspective," Phelps said. "I don't think you can celebrate." 
AIR TRAVEL 

IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS TICKETS DELIVERED 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
DON'T PAY I<: FOR YOUR 
XAPLAN COURSE. YOURS 
CAN BE FREE! REALLY. 
GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, NCLEX, 
GRE, BAR REVIEW & more. KAPLAN. THE WORLD'S LEADER IN TEST PREP. CALL FOR INFORMATION NOW! Kaplan Educational Center 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
PHONE 219/272-4135 

! members of consulting project teams. 
. ~ 

; We will be recruiting at Notre Dame on January 30. : 

'*~*·*************************************************************~******************W~· 

---~--~--~,~-----------­
~~----~-~-------..-------1 
Tuesday, December 6, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Though Villanova won the meet, the Irish managed to

Men 
beat Fordham by a score of 134­

continued from page 16 
107, after Fordham ~ccum~ 

The purpose of the champion­ulated 4'78 points at the Na­ships was mostly a litmus-test tional Catholics compared to for the Irish to assess its posi­Notre Dame's 438. tion in the middle of the season. Highlighting the Irish 
Welsh was optimistic about weekend was junior diver Ed the outcome of the two meets. Veome, who won the high point 
"We improved each day of award for divers at the Na­the meet, swimming faster on tional Catholics. The La the fourth day than any previ­Grange Park, Ill., native's top ous day," said Welsh. "Itshows finish in the one-meter diving us three things. competition and third place in 
"First it shows us that the the three-meter contest was team stayed disciplined, enough to earn him top honors focused, optimistic and con­among the host of divers. tinually prepared to do its best. Also at the National Cat­Second, it is very rare for a holics, sophomore Jim Byrne team's performance to im­finished second in the 200­prove over a three-day meet. I Backstroke and fourth in the
The men's and women's swimming teams both 
think that's a tribute to the 400-Individual Medley to help
finished fourth In the National Catholic Cham­
swimmers, and the strength the Irish cause.
pionships last weekend In Philadelphia. The 
and conditioning program Now that the swimmers are 
teams also competed against VIllanova and Fordham In a trl meet Sunday. 
we've had this fall. aware of their status, they willPamenter, also a freshman, set look at both of the meets. 
"Third, we saw how we can take to the waters in California a record for the 50 yard back­"Not a single person had a improve from now through the to train over Christmas break. 

Women 
stroke during the 200 race. bad swim but it was harder to spring championships," con­The performances lastOn Sunday, the Irish women achieve," he said. "The level
continued from page 16 tinued Welsh. "We see what's weekend will not serve to dis­
competed in a tri-meet with Vil­of base conditioning is not as left to be done and we have a courage the Irish, but to makethe areas where the team needs lanova and Fordham and the strong as we want it to be, and clear sense of how to go about them work that much harder. 
to improve. results were split. The team this is certainly influenced by it. That's a positive outcome of "Last year when we swam"We know now what needs to lost to Villanova, 6647, but the fact that Rolfs pool didn't the meet." well at the National Catholics, be done," he said. "A champi­soundly defeated Fordham, open until October." 
The dual meet at Villanova it was an incentive that encour­onship meet in midseason is 172-69. Jenny Kipp, Christy "The peak performances was the best indicator of Irish aged us to swim well for thelike a reality check. You take Moston and Becky Wood cap­were less visible," he contin­potential. Mter three grueling rest of the season," said soph­a hard look, find out how you're tured first place finishes for the ued. "We didn't set any univer­days at the National Catholics, omore Brian Rini. "At thisdoing and see what you have to Irish, and the 200 medley relay sity records until the last night the swimmers made their way meet, even though we didn'tdo next." team also placed first. of the competition (the Na­to compete with two of the swim the same quality meet, I There were five university "The results were the same tional Catholics)." 
teams that finished ahead of think the team is even more en­records broken at the National as the last time we faced these The primary emphasis for them in the standings at the couraged to swim harder, be­Catholics. Becky Wood, a soph­two schools," noted Welsh, the team over the next couple previous meet, and the results cause we know we can do bet­omore from New York State, "but the margin was in our fa­of weeks will be on academics. 
were promising. ter." 
set a time of 2:25.32 as she vor. When we faced Villanova The Irish swimmers have al­finished first in the 200 breast two years ago, they crushed us, ways had a 3.0 average or bet­
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING.
stroke and later she placed but this year it was much ter, and Welsh would like to 
second in the 100 breast stroke closer. Also, last year we just maintain this. The team will 
with a record time of 1:07.61. squeeked by Fordham. This also return to the strength pro­
Freshman Heather Winiecki year there was no doubt of the gram and run water training also holds two records, one for winner." workouts as they prepare for the 1650 freestyle and also for Welsh said that a lot was their next meet, the UC-Irvine the 1000 yard free. Katie learned by taking an overall Invitational on January 6-7. 
IBM's got thepackagethat'll helpwrap up your studies. 

IBM® PERSONAL SYSTEM/2® MODEL 25 PACKAGE SAVINGS 

PACKAGE 1 
640 KB Memory. 8086 proces, sor. one 3.5" floppy drive (720KB), 20MB Fixed Disk Drive with Adapter ( #4110). 
rMONOJ 
' ) 
one full size expansion slot. serial and parallel port, en­hanced keyboard. High res. 12" monochrome display. Mouse. DOS4.0. 
PACKAGE 2 
640 KB Memory. 8086 proces­sor. one 3.5" floppy drive (720KB). 20MB Fixed Disk Drive with Adapter (#4110). one full size expansion slot. serial & parallel port. enhanced keyboard. High resolution 12" color display. Mouse. DOS 4.0 and Windows Kit for PS/2. 


PACKAGE 3 
640 KB Memory. 8086 proces­
sor. one 3.5" floppy drive 
(720KB), 20MB Fixed Disk 
Drive with Adapter (#4110). 
one full size expansion slot. 
serial & parallel port. enhanced 
keyboard. High resolution 12" 
color display. Mouse. DOS 4.0 
and Windows Kit for PS/2. Pro­
. . . 

printer II dot matrix. high 
• ~ .. 0 ~.:·· ; 

speed draft or near letter quality printer with cable. 
*From Au ust31. 1988 until further notice for eli ible students, facuh and staff. 
LIST $2460 
$2969 
$3591 

YOUR YOU PRICE* SAVE 
$1362 $1098 
$1595 $1374 
$1943 $1648 
EPC is located in the Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25, Computing Center (219) 239-7477 

-=--=-=-= =­
==-=~=~ 

Pricea oubjecl to change and do not indude state and local tax•. IBM, Personal SystenV2 and Praprinter II are registered tradernarko oiiBM Corporation. Microsoft io a regiatered trademark ol Mioroeolt Corporation. 

Tuesday, December 6, 1988

page 14 The Observer 

Vegas lucky to ND wrestlers 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
Jackpot! 
The Notre Dame wrestling team grabbed an impressive seventh place finish in the Las Vegas Invitational Tourna­ment last weekend. They placed five wrestlers in the top seven in their respective weight divisions. The seventh­place finish was the highest ever for the Irish in the Las Vegas tournament. Defending NCAA champion Oklahoma State won the team champion­ship while Arizona came in second. 
The 19th-ranked Irish were paced by senior Pat Boyd, who placed fourth in the 142-pound division. He lost to the defend­ing NCAA champion in the semi-finals. Unfortunately, he was slowed by a knee injury which might have kept him 


Parity 

continued from page 16 
What has happened to Pit­tsburgh and Dallas? Just the opposite of what's happened to Buffalo, Houston and New Or­leans over the last few years. The passive football fan can't keep up with who's good and who's bad in pro football anymore. And that's what makes it the best spectator sport in America. 
In other sports, it's really hard to think 'wait 'til next year'. In, say, pro hockey, baseball and basketball your team plays a minimum of five times as many games (read: five times as many chances to choke away late leads) and a few fluke wins during the reg­ular season just doesn't mean much over the long haul. 
For instance, Buffalo, New Orleans and Houston were ter­rible two years ago, fair last year and challenging for divi­sion titles with three games to go this year (Buffalo has already clinched theirs, the first team to do so). 
Miami, Pittsburgh, and Dallas--three of the all-time great teams in football history and winners of nine out of 22 Super Bowls--went from con­tenders two years ago to mediocre last year to pathetic, under-fire and eliminated from any hope of playoff contention this year. They have a com­bined record of 11-31 this season. 
As sacriligious as this seems to the purist, I think it's good for the game. Remember the era of the New Orleans Aints, the bag-wearing fans, the team. 
from placing higher. 
"Pat wrestled real well this weekend despite being hurt in the semi-finals," said coach Fran McCann. "I just hope the injury doesn't turn out to be serious." 
Other individual finishers in the top seven included senior co-captains and roommates in Flanner Hall, Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser. Durso won fifth place in the 134-pound division while Geneser took seventh in the 170-pound division. Both are contenders for the NCAA tournament. 
Junior Andy Radenbaugh wrestled very well taking a fifth place in the tournament. He has been one of the more consistent wrestlers this year. Freshman Marcus Gowens completed the incredible by winning seventh in the 126­pound weight division. This is an accomplishment that few freshman have obtained. 
record until last year? They may have gotten crushed by the rolling Minnesota Vikings on Sunday, but the Saints are one of the top five teams in the league. And the fans are com­ing out to the ballpark. 
Just like Tampa Bay fans will come out next year to see if Vinny can hold his intercep­tions under triple digits, the rejuvenated Colts will keep packing them in at the Hoosier Dome and there might even be hope for Green Bay and Detroit 
under  new  head  coaches  
(although  I  won't  hold  my  
breath).  

In contrast, when it comes right down to it, it's going to be the Lakers and somebody in the NBA finals, Edmonton and somebody in the NHL finals (each has made the finals four out of the last five years), and because only four teams out of 26 make the playoffs in baseball, teams like Seattle are usually mathematically eliminated halfway through the mammoth 162-game schedule. Dynasties just last 
Tuesda~Dec.6, 1988 Candlelight procession begins at 
7:00 in front of LaFortune. 
reception afterwards in Sorin 
co-sponsored by Notre Dame Student Government 
t t t 

Why learn this lesson the hard way? If you need to get to O'Hare, 

count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. Call674-6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent. 





United Limo 
We'll Get You There 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that you make reservations at least 24 hours in advance. 
"Marcus did a super job for 

a freshman," said McCann 
"He responded under extreme 
pressure and came out with a 
place in his division." 
Gowens' first loss was to a 

Senior 13-11 and his second loss 
was only by one point. The fu­
ture is looking bright for th1s 
young freshman. 
Although a seventh-place finish is excellent, McCann still was a little disappointed in the mental preparedness of his wrestlers. 
"We have the ability to com­pete with anyone at anytime, but our mental mistakes are very critical," said McCann 
Curt Engler, who filled in for injured Tom Salvino, wrestled well, posting a 2-2 record in the l!J<>-pound division. Mark Gerardi, who is still recovering from a knee injury did not place, but wrestled well
. 

longer in those sports. Milwaukee. can go on a l2­game winning streak and finish 
fifth or sixth in the division. In 
fact, they have. But if a football team gets on a roll (i.e., Min­nesota, the Saints), even a small one, the fans can ride that enthusiasm and the players have incentive to play. 
Why do White Sox, Phillies, Braves or Rangers fans go to the ballpark in mid-August 
'when their team is 22 games out of first place? You can read about it in the paper the next day. Either shorten the season or add possible playoff con­
tenders. It's a testament to the Oilers 
(Edmonton, that is) and the Lakers that they consistently
win when 70-80 percent of teams in the league made the 
playoffs each year. And it's im-~==================:A:D:W:O:R:K:;...,.
pressive that baseball tries to 
put some incentive into a team winning a division. But there is a happy medium for fans and players alike. Pro football pro­vides it: excitement and fan in­terest year after year. 
;~~N;;;;o;;;;t;;;;re;;D;a;m;e;';s;fi;rs;t;m;;at;c;h;w;i;ll;b;e;l;.n;m;;id;d;;;;le:;;;;;;J;;;an;;;;u;;;;a;;;;r;;;;y;;;;.;;;;;~' 
..,. 
~ ~ 
IN HONOR OF NOTRE DAME DULAC, ON THE EVE OF THE SOLEMNITY OF HER IMMACULATE CONCEPTION, HOLY MASS WILL BE OFFERED IN LATIN. ALL ARE INVITED TO ATTEND. 
DATE: Wednesday, Dec.7, 1988 
TIME: 5:00p.m. 
PLACE: Cavanaugh Hall Chapel 
SPONSORED BY: Knights of the Immaculata s 
Irish volleyball rolls in opening tourney 
The Men's Volleyball Club opened its season last weekend in a six-team tournament in Michigan. The Irish brought two teams to the tournament, both of which were successful. Other teams who played included Hope Col­lege, Grand Valley State and Western Michigan. 

Greg Scheckenbach 

Club Corner 

The Notre Dame "A" team completed the tournament with a 10-0 record and a championship. The "B" team went 8-2, losing both matches to the "A" team of Notre Dame. 
Club President Jim Sullivan had nothing but praise for both teams. 
"We definitely did some things that pleased me," said Sullivan. "We'll definitely compete in the Midwest Divi­sion and possibly win it." 
The "A" team was led by junior Andy Sullivan, who recorded numerous kills at the net. Sophmore Tom Martin made the first start of his career and didn't disappoint the team. The Irish setter, Tony Rodriguez, performed outstandingly in the first real action of his career. Coach Bill Anderson's team should come out of the gates in a hurry when January roles around. 



Tuesday, December 6, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
8==+:~:-+,:,..! 12 Bonnie young girl ..:..L..:...L.::'-1..:..:.~ 15 Revue segments 
Berke Breathed 



8 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
Noon Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "Urbanization and Development in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands," by Jerome McElroy, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Biology Seminar "Investigations on Steroidogenic Neuropeptides in Mosquitos," by Dr. L. R. Whisenton, Millersville University, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 
5:30 p.m. Career and Placement Services present a reception for all Arts and Letters and Business students interested in careers with Touche Ross, Upper Lounge, University Club. 
7:30p.m. Basketball vs. Indiana, JACC. 
8 p.m. SMC Music Department Recital presents Guy Wuel­lner, Drake University, piano, Little Theatre. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Cheese Croissant Top Round of Beef Sweet & Sour Pork Seafood Newburgh 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Meat Loaf Vegetable Chow Mein Turkey Fajitas Deli Bar 
ACROSS 
1 Funny fellows 5 Quahog 9 Phoenician deity 
13 Biblical land 
14 Name of 
theatrical fame 15 Nacho topping 16 Easy gait 17 Collier's portal 18 Nautical 
measures 19 Mollusks 21 Notions 22 Anna Christie, 
e.g. 23 Theatrical trappings 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
25 Novice 28 Depth charge, to 
a gob 32 Thrusts 36 Fenway Pk. 
judges 38 Pa. county 39 Shakespearean 
villain 
40 Quick 
41 Pollux's mother 
42 Ancient Syria 
43 Marathon 
segments 
44 Pellucid 
45 Mib 
47 Aleutian island 
49Cream-­

Calvin and Hobbes 

Jerks Bill Watterson 
1'\\£ \(N\G\-1\ IS fRIED 10 to. CRU!'1C\.I~ CRISP... \-115 AR~()R F\JS£0 1~\D A 9:>l\D PIECE! i\1£ DRAGo~ CIRCLES OVER­Ht~O. DI>RI~G OTHER RXJLS 
To COME A~R "IM! 
I 

Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
51 P L 0. leader 56 Triple Crown horse: 1935 59 Kin of three card monte 62 Overcome by ennui 63 Lacquered 
metalware 64 Opera by Salieri 65 Calamities 66 Muscat 
sultanate 67 Russian news source 68 Cheerleader's 
verse 69 Flat fee 70 Otherwise 
DOWN 
1 Renege on a 
wager 2 Hilo hi 3 One yawning 4 Olfactory clue 5 Foxlike 6 Calir. city 7 W.W.II foe 8 Bulfinch's 
specialty 
9 Concert site 10 Medicinal plant 11 The Charleses' 
pooch 20 Building sites 24 Cardinal point 26 Be king like 21 Last letter from 

Greece 29 Algonquian Indian 
30 Rival of Amneris 31 Stingy 32 Thailand, 
formerly 

The Far Side 
33"GWTW" survivor 34 Culture medium 
35 Epithet for some Hollywood blondes 
37 Nuisance 40 Skedaddled 44 Weightlifter's exercise 
46 Cargoes 48 -scout 
50 John Jacob-· 52 Variegated 
quartz 53 Deadly 54 Bring together 
55 Concise 56 Mind 57 Chess action 58 Seed jacket 
60 Kind of plate 61 Joie de vivre 
Gary Larson 


"Anyone for a chorus of 'Happy Trails'?" 

Di1trlbuted by Unlvei'MI p,... Syndlclole 

12.·10 
"Say, honey ... didn't I meet you last night at the feeding-frenzy?" 









Sports
t Tuesday, December 6, 1988 

Hoosiers looking for identity as they face unbeaten Irish 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
Some people might view tonight's battle between Notre Dame and Indiana as a game between two teams headed in opposite directions. 
The Hoosiers are struggling at 3-3 and have surrendered more than 100 points three of the past four games. The Irish, meanwhile, are a perfect 2-0, fresh off an 81-65 rout of Ken­tucky in the Big Four Classic. 
But in the rolling hills of southern Indiana--where bas­ketball is king and Daimon Bailey holds court--the Hoosiers aren't ready to throw in the towel just yet. This is just boot camp for the general's squad, the skirmishes that lead to the battles in the Big Ten and the war in March. 
"I think you'll see a different Indiana basketball team," Irish coach Digger Phelps said. "I know Bob Knight, what he will do and how he will get those kids ready to play. I think 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
After suffering an 8-3 setback to the University of Illinois­Chicago earlier in the season, the Notre Dame hockey team will attempt to even up the se­ries tonight at the Joyce Ath­letic and Convocation Center. 
The Irish, 3-12-2 after Satur­day night's 5-4 overtime loss to Michigan-Dearborn, hope to return to the winning track against the eighth-ranked Flames. 
"There's no question that they're a great team," said co­captain Matt Hanzel. "We'll need to play our best game of the year and have a little more luck than we've been getting." 


Jay Edwards 

they're searching for an iden­tity. They're very capable of beating anybody on a given night." 
Indiana has proven to be a difficult challenge for the Irish in recent years. The Hoosiers have won the last three meetings and six of the past seven. An Indiana victory could give it some credibility heading into the tough Big Ten schedule, while a Notre Dame win could prove this young team is for real. 
Arendt making progress as Irish seek revenge vs. UIC 
In the first meeting against the Flames, the Irish lacked physical play, which led to a quick VIC lead. 
"We were shell-shocked when they first came out at us," commented Hanzel. "We finally adjusted to their physi­cal play in the third period, but 
"I think this is the most dif­ficult game of the year to get ready for," Phelps said. "It's a game they really want to win. It's going to be a battle." 
Indiana has been plagued by poor starts in each of its losses. Most recently against Louis­ville, the Hoosiers fell behind 9-0 and turned the ball over on seven of their first nine posses­sions. Although they cut the lead to eight points at one time, they could never fully recover from the lapse at the beginning of the game. 
In Bob Knight's 17 years as head coach, Indiana had sur­rendered 100 points on only one occasion. But Syracuse scored 102, North Carolina 106 and Louisville 101 in big wins over the Hoosiers this season. 
"That's not Indiana basket­ball and I respect that," Phelps said, "but I have to get that across to the players. They have a tradition of playing defensively. He does a great 
see INDIANA, page 12 

"I had to prove myself at the beginning of the season and in­crease my confidence level, which has improved my game a lot," said Arendt. 
Although now seeing much action on the ice, Arendt chose to come to Notre Dame to 
The Observer I Robert Jones Bob Knight and the Indiana Hoosiers bring a 3-3 record Into the JACC tonight for a big matchup with the Irish. Indiana Is coming off of a 101-79 loss to Louisville. 
phenomenal. In 22 games during his senior year, he cranked out 46 goals and 34 as­sists, which translates into 126 points, or over five-and-a-half points per game. Many years of playing with the neighbor­hood "cool guys" helped to catapult Arendt into one of 
"We didn't have a weight program in high school, so I wasn't ready physically at the beginning of the year," he said. "The team works out twice a week and I've been lifting on my own, which has improved my game." 
Although the team is on a 

three goals wasn't enough against a team with their talent and quickness." 
It was during this game that freshman Pat Arendt made his presence known on the team. Arendt, one of six Minnesota all-stars in his senior year at Lourdes High School in Rochester, started the UIC game at center and has been steadily improving. 
No teams dominate in NFL these days 
Through 13 games in the NFL this season, the Green Bay Packers are one of two teams with the worst record in pro football. 
(sigh) Typical Packers, no solid starting quarterback, no hands at running back and wide receiver, mistake-filled secondary, and you never know what felony a member of the Pack will be charged with this week. 
Pete Skiko Assistant Sports Editor 


Looks likt: another top draft choice next year. 
Do they have it locked up yet? 
Almost. The Cowboys and Steelers are giving them a run for it. 
Huh? 

Yeah, Dallas is 2-12 and the Steelers are 4-10 after their miracle win over Houston Sunday night in the House of Pain. 
You mean the Steelers weren't favored to beat Houston? And since when isn't the Astrodome the House of Easy Road Wins? 
Are you crazy? Houston was an 11-point favorite. They were 6-0 at home until last night. What's happened to Pittsburgh and Dallas? 
see PARITY, page 14 
temporarily downslide, the fu­ture appears bright for the Irish. 
"Everyone's working their hardest, but we just haven't been getting any breaks. We have 22 games left, so things will begin to fall into place," said Hanzel. 
The Irish plan to start placing things tonight with a triumph over Illinois-Chicago. 

succeed both on and off the ice. 
"I picked Notre Dame over hockey powerhouses like North Dakota, St. Cloud State, and Colorado College because here I can get a great education and at the same time use my ath­letic ability," he said. "Most of the coaches I talked to agreed coming to Notre Dame would be best for me in the long run." 
Arendt's high school credits are nothing short of Rochester's finest, along with Irish teammates Craig Kleis '\nd Mike Curry. 
"I started playing when I was five," he said. "It was the cool thing to do so I decided to give it a shot." 
And according to Arendt, the shots and physical play on the 
Divsion  I  level  are  incom­ 
parable to  those  on the high  
school level.  


Men swimmers finish fourth 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
The men's swimming team returned from a week-long trip to Philadelphia where they competed in the National Cath­olic Championships at La Salle University and a dual meet at the University of Villanova. 
Though the Irish (3-2) did not blow anybody out of the water (no pun intended), they did manage to accomplish several important goals en route to a fourth-place finish at the Na­tional Catholics and a second place effort in the dual meet. 
Notre Dame was at the Na­tional Catholics from Thursday to Saturday and then concluded its trip with dual meets against Villanova and Fordham on Sunday. 
The seemingly lackluster performance of the Irish (fourth out of 10 teams) at the National Catholics is a little misleading. Though the team finished second in the same meet last year when it was hosted by Notre Dame, this "slip" is not attributable to a 
Women also fourth in tough meet 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
It was a good weekend for the women's swimming team. 
Despite a fourth place finish at the National Catholics, which is down two places from last year, and despite a loss to Villanova on Sunday, coach Tim Welsh had nothing but positive things to say about the team's performance. 
The focal point of the trip had been the second annual National Catholics, held in Philadelphia. Notre Dame to­taled 422 points, good enough' for fourth behind Boston College, which placed first with 615 points, Villanova and the hosts LaSalle. The Irish turned in several good indi­vidual performances in the meet. 
"There were several positive results of the meet," said Welsh. "The team stayed disciplined, focused and opti­mistic, and they were continually prepared to do their best." 
Welsh said that the two meets gave a good indication of 
see WOMEN, page 13 

decreased effort by the swim­mers. 
"Our slide is a tribute to the strength of the field this year,'' said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "It is probably less of a slip in our program as a sign that the meet has grown to in-
elude more competitive teams." 
Finishing first in the Cham­pionships was Villanova, with La Salle and Fordham taking second and third places, respectively. 
see MEN, page 13 




