~--------------------------------------~ 
IACCENT: Batman returns IVIEWPOINT: The Coke boycott 


VOL. XXI, NO. 86 
•
Dole, Gephardt emerge ahead 1n Iowa caucus 
Associated Press vowed to work harder in New while Gary Hart's comeback front-runner who scored a dra­army.'' His second-place finish 
Hampshire's first-in-the-nation bid was failing dramatically. matic triumph in Iowa's followed strong showings in
DES MOINES, Iowa -Sen. primary next week. "I'm a He had scarcely one percent of caucuses in 1980 -had 18,699 or Michigan and HawaiiBob Dole won a convincing vic­fighter ... I'm not going to be the Democratic total in the 19 percent. caucuses. tory in Iowa's Republican slinking around," he said. state that catapulted him to na-The Dole camp crowed about The rest of the Republicanpresidential caucuses Monday Dole, who urged Iowans to 
tiona! prominence in 1984. the magnitude of the defeat suf-field trailed far behind -Jacknight while Pat Robertson regard him as "one of us," said -~llllii fered by the vice president. Kemp with 11 percent, Pete du
bested faltering Vice President his victory demonstrated "I "This is going to help" in New Pont with 7 percent and Alex­George Bush for second place. can be elected in November." 
•• Hampshire's first-in-the nation ander Haig, who didn't com­Rep. Richard Gephardt led Robertson said his showing •
-~::; ~=iaiii•• primary next week, said Sen. pete, had a smattering of sup­Paul Simon and Michael was a victory for voters "who With 89 percent of the Repub-Warren Rudman, a supporter port.Dukakis in a tightly bunched wanted us to restore the great­lican precincts reporting, Dole of the Kansas senator. The Democratic vote wasDemocratic field. ness of America through moral had 37,703 votes, or 38 percent. Robertson's support was slower to tally but with 60 per­
Bush conceded defeat in the strength." Former TV evangelist hard to figure before the cent of the caucuses reporting,first big test of the 1988 Gephardt, Simon and Robertson had 24,303 for 24 per-caucuses -pundits referred to Missouri Rep. Gephardt hadpresidential campaign and Dukakis fought their battle cent and Bush -the nationwide his backers as "the invisible 21,971 votes for 28 percent. 
Beauchamp to head fund drive 
By DEIRDRE FINN recruiting and training of forty Staff Reporter volunteer community leaders, establishing and managing the 
Father William Beauchamp, goals for the year, and ar­executive vice president of ticulating the message of Notre Dame, has been selected United Way, said Mangan. by the area United Way to head Beauchamp was chosen be­their 1988 Fund Drive Cam­cause he has the ability to "at­paign. tract, motivate and lead the 
"Father Beauchamp will more than two thousand volun­
play a vitally important role in teers that will be participating the campaign," said Patrick in this year's campaign," said Mangan, associate director for Mangan. 
United Way of St. Joseph In reaction to the news, Beau­County. champ said, "I am very Beauchamp's primary re­
see FUND, page 3
sponsibilities will include 
About $300 garnered for the Cogswell fund 
By DAVID T. LEE cient fund to give extended Staff Reporter treatment.'' 
The money could also be used 
Around $300 in donations was as scholarships for student collected for the Michael leaders to go to alcohol aware­Dukakis at the caucus Cogswell Memorial Fund at ness conferences such as the 
Notre Dame freshman Jim Coogan, at left, looks on students who campaigned for Dukakis in the Iowa
Theodore's on Friday, accor­National Collegiate Drug 
as Governor Michael Dukakis visits supporters in Ft. caucus race.
ding to Senior Class President Awareness Conference in 
Madison, Iowa. Coogan is one of ten Notre Dame
Diane Fitzgibbon. Washington. Dannison said this 
Exact figures have not been would occur only if extra funds determined, but Fitzgibbon were available after treatment said about 85 percent of stu­of students. 
Senate approves SUB leaders 
dents donated to the fund. The Counseling Center will "I have a feeling they did apply guidelines to assess the By GREG LUCAS respectively, reads, "The Stu­ber would be one of the Student really well," said Director of needs of the student. dent Business Board shall in­Senators.
Copy Editor 
the newly christened Office of He said the funds will be ad­clude the following student "Because SUB is so impor­Alcohol and Drug Education ministered through Father The Student Senate approved operated businesses: the Cel­tant, I think it's vital to have David Dannison. "By the end David Tyson's Office of Student Brian Riley and Julie Johnson lar, Irish Gardens, and Ad­another elected officer of this year, we can get several Affairs, which would "review as next year's Student Union works." voting," said Mike Carrigan, thousand dollars." what the need is, and make a Board Manager and Controller The amendment provides for student senator. 
Dannison said the first offi­determination as to how much respectively at the Senate the nomination and approval of Janel Blount, SUB manager, cial donation was given by funds are available," said Dan­meeting Monday night. a business board general who voted for the amendment Zahm Hall, where Mike nison. manager who would serve as a said that she had some reserva­Cogswell resided as a member Firth said she contacted the In other news, the Senate non-voting member on Student tions. "I don't want to bring of the class of 1988. Cogswell family to receive per­passed an amendment that Senate. politics and a political nature 
Director of Residence Life mission to name the fund in would provide for the creation The amendment to the under­to this body," she said. Ann Firth said the money is honor of the Zahm Hall junior of a Student Business Board. graduate constitution was "funded primarily through stu­killed last year "because his "The Student Business passed by unanimous consent Senate members agreed to dent contributions.. It is from life and death had such a Board is parallel to the Student by the Senate. In order to be add a clause that would allow students, for students." profound affect on others Union Board steering commit­added to the constitution, it the SUB manager to hold the 
According to Dannison, the around him." tee, only it is designed strictly must also be approved by the deciding vote in the event of a money will "serve students Donations to the fund can be to oversee student businesses," Hall Presidents' Council. tie. The amendment must also who are in need of emergency made through the senior class said Pat Cooke, student body In other business, the Senate go before HPC for approval. alcohol or drug treatment." He or the Office of Alcohol and president. passed an amendment that In other news, Cooke an­said because the costs of a few Drug Education on the second The amendment, presented would increase the number of nounced that the student body days treatment could reach as floor of the LaFortune Student by Brian Holst and Paul Bier­voting members on the SUB presidential debates will be high as $1000, he wanted a fund Center, according to Fitzgib­busse, student senator and ex­steering committee from seven Sunday at 7:30p.m. in the Res­"which would provide a suffi-bon. ecutive assistant to the senate to eight. The additional mem-burgh Library auditorium. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 9, 1988 

In Brief 
A woman in labor had to wait twenty minutes while a police officer wrote a parking ticket on the car her hus­band had borrowed to take her to the hospital in Kansas City, Kansas. When the husband protested, the officer called him "an idi~" and told him to "shut up." Inves­tigations into the matter have begun. -Associated Press 
A bike crash almost cost a Kokomo, Indiana, boy $26,000 as the woman he hit when he was 9-years-old sued him. Lady Luck smiled on Todd Kurowsky, at least for now, as the Indiana Court of Appeals ruled Monday against the fine. However, Kurowsky will have to return to Howard Superior Court for a new trial. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Democracy in Paraguay will be the topic of Diego Abente's seminar as he discusses the current "Stronismo" in Paraguay. The seminar will be held at noon in 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 
Catholic Faith Series 1988 will continue tonight with Father John Dunne's presentation on prayer. Registration forms for this session or any of the series' sessions are available at both the Badin Hall and Hesburgh Library Campus Ministry offices. Sessions are held every Sunday and Tuesday in the Keenan-Stanford chapel. -The Observer 
A presentation on Hallmark will be given tonight by Joe Sevick at 7 in Room 124 of Hayes-Healy Center. The talk is sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society. 
-The Observer 
A logo contest is being held for the Collegi~te Jazz Festival's twentieth anniversary, to be held Apnl 8 and 
9. The winning designer will receive $100 and old designs are available for reference. Entries are due Feb. 29 in the Student Union Board office. For more information, contact Dave Thornton at 287-6575 or Kevin Mundy at 283-3797. 
-The Observer 
Dismas House, a residential community for ex-prisoners and students, is seeking student resi­dents for the 1988-89 school year. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns and are due Feb. 29. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet this evening at 7:30 in the Stanford Hall 24-hour lounge. -The Observer 
Christian music will be featured tonight at Theodore's from 9 to 11:30 -The Observer 
A Workshop on depression will be offered tonight by the University Counseling Center at 6:30 in the Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
CAPP;DPMA Club will offer two lectures at 7 p.m. in 210 O'Shaughnessy. The first, by Ed Sitor of National Standard will be "Career Opportunities in Information Processing." Susan Jensen of the Travelers will give the second lecture, on "Marketing Opportunities Within In­surance and Financial Service Industries." -The Observer 
-Ih.e-Obse.. ~~or__ 
-------.L-=:Y=-'----~ 

Design Editor . . . . ..... Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Tony Lang Design Assistant . . . . . Pete LaFleur Viewpoint Layout Richelle Aschenbrenner Layout Staff....... ... Kathleen McCaffrey Accent Copy Editor ....... Theresa Loomis 
Typesetters... . ... Dana Jannotta Accent Layout ................. Heather Hypes 
.................... Becky Gunderman Typist.. . .......................... Wendy Burek News Editor ....................... Chris Julka ........................................ Lynsey Strand Copy Editor.. . .... Matt Crowley ND Day Editors ..................... David Lee Sports Copy Editors . . . ... Theresa Kelly PhotographeT .. ............• Susie Hernandez 
TM Olleenet' (USpS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duriDB exam and vacation periods. "Be OblerYet' is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S<40 per year ($25 per semester) by writiDB "Be Olleenet", P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodiana 46556. 
"Be Olleenet' is a member of "Be Aaodated Pial. All reproduction rishts arc reserved. 

The shortest month 
•

IS not short enough 
My alarm did not go off today, there were pop quizzes in two of the three classes that I skipped this week, my car has been broken since Christmas and the sun has been taken away by the communists. 
It's the month we've all been waiting for. The February blahs have set in and they are worse than ever. 
It's the month that a broken nail, missing your favorite T.V. show, an empty mailbox or a mouse in your room are potentially earth­shattering dilemmas. 
Why does the shortest month of the year seem to be the longest one as the days drag on? 
People are surprised every day at the fact that we are still in the single digits when they date their notes, if they go to class at all. 
Mter all, it's next to impossible to roll out of bed when you know it's either snowing or a thousand degrees below zero outside. 
On the landmark occasion that the sun does emerge, the only thing it does is blind the brave from the reflection off of the Hoosier tundra. 
And the snow is not a fun diversion any more because it has worn out its welcome with even the most playful snow bunnies. It is not even fun snow. It immediately turns to grey when it hits the slush muck on the ground and stays on your boots all the way into your room and on 


your car floor until March, when it warms up. the Senior Skins tour or bowling championships 
You can't drive anywhere in Indiana without don't satisfy that weekly need for a sports fix. taking your life into your hands because local Nothing happens in February because the road crews have never heard of salt. That 
motivation factor is bottom of the barrel. doesn't make much sense as snow is not a new Academia is the worst of all now because skip­concept here. ping a class temporarily sends us into a self­
Campus sidewalks are buried under ice, cour­indulgent frenzy that helps us get though the tesy of the Kamikazi Zamboni driver on day for beating the February blahs, even if it 
campus, making it twice as tempting to stay in is to find out if Robin has begun to speak yet for the month. However, there is no need to on General Hospital. worry about getting salt stains on your shoes Money is a resurfacing problem in February,around here in the event you do decide to trek because there is not as much as in September 
to class. when we had summer's wages to draw from to 
Maybe February is nasty because there is ease the pain of a semester's beginning. nothing really exciting that happens all month. Going out is old hat and it's too cold anyway. January is only about two real weeks long, You really have to wonder about your motiva­December has Christmas, October and Novem­tion to socialize when sock races in the Saint ber have football, March is a celebration of Mary's tunnels and laundry are more appealing 
February's end, April flies and May is play Friday night plans than carousing at Senior time. Bar. 
Of course, in February there is always Pres­It's only a matter of time before the chill ident's Day, but private institutions have never thaws, the roads clear, people start walkingtaken advantage of any excuse to celebrate a outside again and our alarm clocks begin to national holiday. Valentine's Day is a fifty-fifty work properly. 
gamble that usually makes most people feel But for now there is only February. Day after miserable. day for twenty more days, we will all fall prey Football fans are suddenly forced to spend to the blahs but whatever our crisis this month, 
their Sundays watching softball or golf if bas­just remember that March and Spring Break ketball has bored them already and somehow are just around the corner. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~~~:~·:~-~~~::~:~~~:~~==:·~~;~··~~·:·~p 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and WISh her a happy one. By the way Laura,we do expect to see you danc1ng
II IIon pool tables ton1ght LaFortune. 


$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: A VALUABLE PROGRAM. A PERSONAL CHALLENGE. 
The NROTC Scholarship Program,offers you a two-year college scholarship 
that's worth as much as $25,000. And it offers you the opportunity to become 
a Navy officer and start asuccessful career. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and provides an allowance of$100 amonth for up to 20 months during your last two years ofcollege. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you'll become part ofthe Navy adventure as a commissioned Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
For more information call Lieutenant Commander Tim Wieand at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 
NAVY...OFFICER. 

LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN F·RESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY 
DEAN FRANCIS CASTELL/NO AND THE DEPARTMENT OF THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
7:00 P.M. TUESDAY, ENGINEERING (CUSHING) FEBRUARY 9, 1988 AUDITORIUM 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DEPARTMENT TOURS AND OPEN HOUSES 
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES CHEMISTRY EARTH SCIENCES MATHEMATICS PHYSICS PREPROFESSIONAL STUDIES 






FRESHMEN 
Feb. 10  7:00-8:00 P.M.  
Feb. 10  6:30-7:30. P.M.  
Feb. 10  6:30-7:30 P.M.  
Feb. 10  7:00-8:00 P.M.  
Feb. 10  6:30-7:30 P.M.  
Feb. 11  7:00-8:00 P.M.  


FRESHMEN 
283 GALVIN LifE SCIENCE 262 STEPAN CHEMISTRY 
101 EARTH SCIENCES 227 MATHEMATICS CENTER 341 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE 

FRESHMEN 
Tuesday, February 9, 1988 
SOl test 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -A research satellite rocketed into orbit Monday for a key "Star Wars" test of how well it can track fifteen simulated Soviet nuclear missiles through space. 
The $250 million exercise will help determine if a split-second response can be developed for a space-based missile defense system and whether orbiting sensors can pick out a real mis­sile from a decoy. 
Officials called it one of America's most ambitious un­manned space missions and re­ported the the early hours of the flight had progressed smoothly. They promised to provide details of the complex mission when it is completed 
Radiation poisoning suspected 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The govern­ment has ordered inspections of beer, soft drinks, baby for­mula and dental and cosmetic products from more than a dozen plants across the country because of possible radiation contamination, officials said Monday. 
Production was briefly halted over the weekend at several Coca-Cola plants but they were reopened after no contamination was found in product samples, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and officials for the company said. Similar surveying was under at Anheuser-Busch 
The Observer page 3 
.--------------------·· 


satellite launched 
Tuesday morning. 
"We will have a suite of sen­sors looking at fifteen objects over many orbits," Gordon Smith, deputy director of the Strategic Defense Initiative Of­fice, told a news conference. "Altogether we're very, very pleased with the start." 
A two-stage Delta rocket vaulted off its launch pad at 
5:07 p.m. following a secret countdown made public just five minutes before liftoff. The booster quickly vanished from sight in low-hanging clouds. 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration, which launched the rocket for SDIO, announced forty minutes later that the 6,000­pound second stage of the rocket was in the desired orbit, 
breweries in St. Louis and Jack­which are encased in a ceramic sonville, Fla., and at an Abbott covering and come from a Laboratories-owned baby for­static-removing device mula plant in Arizona, an Avon manufactured by 3M Corp. -are cosmetics plant in Illinois and most likely to pass through the a dental products plant in New body without any radiation Jersey. being released, he said. 
NRC and Food and Drug Ad­Of twenty-five plants where ministration officials empha­officials so far have uncovered sized that no contamination has leaks of the polonium particles been found so far in examina­exceeding NRC guidelines, fif­tions of the products at any of teen produce food, beverage, those plants. drug or cosmetic products, of­
Dr. Frank Young, commis­ficials said. sioner of the Food and Drug Ad­ministration said a significant "The good news to date is health hazard is unlikely, even that there is no evidence of con­if some soft drinks, beer or tamination," Young told the other products are found to be NRC during a two-hour contaminated. meeting called hastily on Mon­
If ingested, the particles -day. 
more than 250 miles high. 
The orbiting stage was to release the fifteen mock mis­siles over a four-hour period and sensors on the stage and at more than one hundred ground sites were to track them through maneuvers over eight hours. 
SDIO said four of the payloads contain motors that were to be fired to simulate a Soviet rocket as it climbs off a launch pad. The other eleven were to play the roles of Soviet missiles coasting through space before releasing their multiple nuclear warheads. 
Sensors, including laser, radars and optical devices, were to try to follow the payloads against varying back­grounds such as land, ocean, horizon and space. 

•  •  t.  •  u  
The Observer I Susy Hernandez  
All Arkied-out  

Sophomore Greg Gallant was overcome by sleep as he attempted to accomplish something architectural Monday. 

Fund 
continued from page 1 honored to take over the chair­manship. It is very important to the South Bend community and to the University as well." 
Beauchamp played an active role in previous fundraising ef­forts. He brought in over $240,000 as the Chairman of the Colleges and Universities drive in the Centennial Campaign, said Mangan. 
The goal for the 1988 drive will be established later in the spring. Last year's goal of $3,225,000 was achieved and will be surpassed, said nu1u,;cu1 
Beauchamp doesn't an­ticipate any conflicts with his position at Notre Dame and his responsibilities with United Way. 
''The chairmanship shouldn't interfere with my re­sponsibilities to the Univer­sity," said Beauchamp. "It will just mean a little more work." 
The United Way is an inter­national network that consists of 2300 local, independent or­ganizations, thirty-seven of which are in St. Joseph County. Last year $2.4 billion was raised to support 37,000 human service agencies throughoutthe 


--~ ~­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 9, 1988 

College Briefs ! · _ ,, 
Skateboardsareoff -limitsonArizonaState's concrete-covered campus. "Although we love skateboarders in the abstract," says ASU Pres­ident J. Russell Nelson, "they beat the hell out of the pavement." Critics of the skateboards also say the riders imperil unwary pedestrians. 
·-The National On-Campus Report 
A McDonald's restaurant was the site of picketing by a group of U. of Alabama students, who protested the restaurant's use of expanded polystyrine, a brand name styrofoam product that--when incinerated--is destructive to the earth's protective ozone layer. Apparently the students did not purchase any Happy Meals while picketing. -The National On-Campus Report 
. The lab ts a sJum apartment buil~ing in a Thorton Commumt~ ~ol~ege const~u<:t10n cla_ss. Students are rehabilttatmg the buildmg, whtch has smashed windows and plumbing fixtures strewn in the yard. It's located in the south Chicago suburb of Harvey, IL. The city bought the abandoned building in order to restore it. 
-The National On-Campus report 
Stricter penalties are in store for pranksters a~d women, according to the National Associ­who pull false fire alarms in U. of Nebraska abo~ of ~ollege Stor~s. Other forecasts: Wo­dormitories. The guilty party (if a resident) men s sktrt lengt?s :-vm be ~nywhere from t_he will be kicked out of the hall, fined up to 500 ground ':IP; men s Jeans will b~ looser, wtth dollars, and can expect to spend five to six more tht~h roo~. Fleece--now m sho~ts p~t­weeks in jail. A rash of false fire alarms terne? wtth stnpes, checks, . and platds--will prompted the new, tougher policy. -The Na-remamthetopseller.-TheNatwnalOn-Campus tional On-Campus Report Report 
Nuclear force to be improved 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci said Monday that the NATO al­liance's tactical nuclear weap­ons would be improved --with West Germany's consent -even as a new U.S.-Soviet treaty sets the stage for scrapping intermediate-range rockets. 
"Some of the modernization of nuclear artillery is already going ahead," Carlucci said on his return from a NATO policy session in Munich. He said the modernization program did not circumvent the treaty. 
As Carlucci gave assurances of West German support for the 

Reagan speaks against drugs 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -President Reagan stepped up his cam­paign against illegal drugs Monday, deriding critics who say employers have no right to search out drug abuse in the workplace. 
"The real answer must come from taking the customer away from the drugs, not the other way around," the president said. 
Reagan's appearance at an anti-drug conference at Duke University sparked a noisy demonstration by upwards of 200 opponents of his Central America policy. 
His armored limousine passed within ten to fifteen feet of shouting protesters bearing a large placard reading "Ter­rorist Not Welcome" and car­rying signs reading, "Contra thugs peddle drugs" and "Just say no to Contra aid." A line of highway patrolmen stood in front of the crowd, blocking its access to the roadway. 
Addressing an audience of about 7,000 people at an indoor stadium, Reagan said that for a long time, political, cultural and media leaders gave the im­U.S.-backed plan, the treaty remained embroiled in contro­versy over its meaning. 
A senior Senate Democrat, Joseph Biden of Delaware, prepared to attach a "binding condition" that the current in­terpretation by Secretary of State George Shultz and other 
U.S. officials cannot be altered without Senate approval. 
Two other influential senators, Sam Nunn and Robert Byrd, threatened to slow down ratification of the treaty unless the administra­tion gave assurances it would be bound by the testimony of Shultz and the others. 
pression that using drugs was all right. 
"Well, thank God those days are over,' he said. "This con­ference proves that we no longer shrug off illegal drug use." 
He said the federal govern­ment, and particularly the Defense Department, have taken the lead toward achiev­ing a drug-free workplace. 
The Pentagon has a manda­tory drug testing program for all military personnel and cer­tain "critical" civilian workers. 
Under an executive order Reagan signed in 1986, federal civilian employees holding "sensitive positions" are re­quired to submit to drug test­ing. 
"We're encouraging state and local government to follow our example, as well as federal contractors, and all of the private sector," the president said. "We got a head start with the military, and since the drug program started there, illegal drug use has gone down by two­thirds." 
Reagan said, "I've heard critics say employers have no business looking for drug abuse in the workplace. But when you Twenty band members at Florida A&M in­vaded the office of the campus newspaper, throwing bundles of paper out of the window and making threats to the staff because the paper ran a story about a parent charging the band with hazing. The story said the parent accused members of the band of beating other members for being late for performances. The paper vows to further investigate the hazing allegations. -The National On-Campus Report 

The quest for knowledge turned larcenous at the University of South Florida when a stu­dent, afraid of flunking a chemistry exam, per­suaded two other students to try and steal a copy of the exam from an earlier exam period. The pair grabbed the test and took off running for the door; they didn't get far. Two students tackled them before they got to the door. All three face expulsion from the university. -The National On-Campus Report 
Predictions for spring fashions include a continuing emphasis on pastels--for both men 
Shultz, through State Depar­tment spokesman Charles Red­man, offered to "answer whatever questions the senators may have." But Biden, through a Foreign Re­lations Committee staff aide, said "no statement the Senate can eke out of the administra­tion will solve this problem." 
Nunn, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, and Byrd, the majority leader, threatened to delay considera­tion of the treaty until the prob­lem was resolved. But the Foreign Relations Committee, which has sole jurisdiction over ratification, intends to resume its hearings next week. 
pin the critics down, too often they seem to be among that handful who still believe that drug abuse is a victimless crime. 
"The drug user is a victim," the president continued. "His employer is a victim. His fellow employees are victims. The family that depends on his wages are victims. And America, which is only as strong and as competitive as all of us together, America is the victim." 
DON'T FORGET TO ORDER VALENTINE'S DAY FLOWERS! 

1 /2 dozen long-stem roses $16 1 dozen long-stem roses $32 A VOID THE RUSH, ORDER EARLVI Valentine deliveries will go out Saturday night. Hours: Monday-Saturday 12:30 -5:30 

The Observer I Susy Hernandez 

A meeting of the minds 
Members of Dillon Hall got together with Regina Hall residents for a Little Brother-Little Sister pizza party at Saint Mary's Monday night. 
THE KAPLAN CURRICULUM FOR CAREER CLIMBERS: 
LSAT, GMAT, MCAT, 

GRE,DAT, Advanced Medical Boards, TOEFL, Nursing Boards, NTE, CPA, Intra. to Law, Speed Reading, 
AND MORE. 

For nearly 50 years, Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared over 1 million students for admission and licensing tests. So before you take a test. prepare with the best. Kaplan A good score may help change your life 


!KAPLAN 
5TANLE Y H KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LID 

1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
MCAT CLASS STARTING NOW!! 


-------------"----~--­

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Waldheim knew of Nazi atrocities, historians conclude 
Three Israeli soldiers patrol the Gaza Strip under both the shadow of a Moslem minaret and the Israeli flag. The soldiers, one of whom is a female member of the military police, are able to take a more relaxed stance as tension in the region remained at lowered levels. See story below. 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria -President Kurt Waldheim knew of Nazi atrocities during his German army service in the Balkans and did not try to stop them, but there is no proof he com­mitted war crimes, a panel of investigating historians said Monday. 
"To deduce that knowledge constitutes some kind of crime is simply not correct," 
Parliament to vote 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The House of Commons votes Tuesday on whether to allow TV cameras in its chambers, but the issue has divided many members over the public's right to know and a reluctance to let it know too much. 
Although the publicity bonanza is hard for many leg­islators to resist, there are those, including Prime Mini­ster Margaret Thatcher, who are reluctant to shock viewers with the rowdy scenes that of­ten disrupt the Mother of Par­liaments. 
"I do not think that televising this house would enhance its reputation," Mrs. Thatcher remarked crisply in November as pressure grew for the latest debate on an issue that has divided the Commons for more than 20 years. 
Thatcher spoke after another rough scene in which an oppo­sition legislator, Tam Dalyell, called her a liar, and was suspended for five days. Rules of parliamentary parlance draw the line at saying some­one "misled the house." 
~~~::2~~:~,~.~~~.~.~!,~?.~~1 _. 
Large 1 Br./\pts., Efficiency Apts., Hotel Rooms, Heated Pool, Air Conditioning, hea:, Color TV, AM-FM Radio, Barbecue Pit, Parking, Laundry Room, 3 Short Blocks to Beach, 20 min. from Ft. Lauderdale Airport, and close to Galleria Shopping Mall, Gourmet Restaurants, Ocean World, Atlantis Six Flags Water Theme Par!<, Tennis Courts, Golf and many more Attractions. FREE HBO 
Hotel Efficiency 1BR 2BR/2Bath 
12/14-1/6 $45 $55 $65 $105 1n-2n 41 48 57 90 2/8-4/30 58 68 78 125 5/1-12/13 24 29 35 55 
800-247-2506 (US &CAN.) FL Call Collect: 305-566-1432 555 Antioch Ave., Ft. lauderdale, Fl33304 
Candy is 
Roses are n t, But Observer ads Are really sweet. 
Let your sweetheart see your love expressed through Observer Valentine classifieds or display ads. 
Classlfleds will be accepted from 1Oam to 3pm every weekday. The Observer is located in room 314 LaFortune or call 239-7 4 71 for further information. 
W aldheim said after meeting with the commission. 
"Every person who served in the war knew about the events -not about everything, one per­son knew more, the other less ... From today's time, it is perhaps easier to criticize if you don't know the surround­ings of the time then." 
He told Austrian television "I am happy" there was no proof of his participation in war crimes. 
According to Waldheim, the 

Fellow Labor Party mem­bers cheered Dalyell as he left the chamber. 
Last week, four protesters who shinnied down ropes into the televised House of Lords to publicize homosexual rights underlined another of the argu­ments of the anti-TV lobby: that the cameras will encour­age bizarre protests by pres­sure groups. 
Votes on whether to allow TV cameras have been getting narrower. At the last debate in November 1985, the vote was 275-263 to keep cameras out. 
Supporters of televising the Commons cite the public's right to know. Opponents argue that TV will encourage showing-off by quarrelsome legislators and argue that editing may be unfair. 
"It (television) would pro­vide a larger audience for hooligan elements in the Com­mons and parliamentary democracy can only suffer as a result," said Thatcher's par­liamentary private secretary, legislator Archie Hamilton. 
Britain is one of the few West European nations that bars TV cameras from its legislature. 
head of the commission stated that the report showed "'no personal guilty conduct on my part and that I also wasn't in­volved in any kind of war crime actions." 
The Austria Press Agency obtained a copy of the commis­sion's report and quoted it as saying the panel could not find a case in which the former U.N. secretary-general opposed "an order to do something he un­doubtedly recognized as un­just." 
on TV 
In the United States, the House of Representatives has been televised since 1979 and the Senate since 1986. 
Televising of debates of the House of Lords, Britain's sometimes-somnolent, un­elected and politically emasc­ulated upper chamber, began four years ago. A daily half­hour program attracts small but respectable ratings: 500,000 viewers compared with 22 million for the top-rated soap opera, "EastEnders." 
It has only been 10 years since the Commons let in radio microphones. 
Radio tapes of shouting ex­changes between Mrs. Thatcher and opposition leader Neil Kinnock, against a back­ground of their rank-and-file legislators booing and catcall­ing, often accompany the main parliamentary story on TV news broadcasts. 
The 150-seat spectators' gallery overlooking the cham­ber is packed at question time, mostly with people who have applied months in advance for tickets. 

Israelis beat boy to death 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -A Gaza Strip teen-ager was beaten to death and crowds of Palestinians fought with Israeli soldiers after his funeral Monday. Is­raeli gunfire wounded ten people in the occupied ter­ritories, hospitals reported. 
Relatives and U.N. officials said soldiers beat 15-year-old lyad Mohammed Aql to death. 
Army spokesman confirmed Aql died of head injuries soon after midnight, but said an in­vestigation showed he was not beaten by soldiers. They said the cause of the injuries was not clear. 
Soldiers had eleven Arab towns and refugee camps in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip under curfew Monday, 

confining 245,000 people to their the army was checking reports 
SENIORS: 
Be a missioner for one year, teaching English in Kyoto, Japan 

~ 'lllt'r or · 
S.~!.l 

Find out more from Father McDonnell Wed., Feb. 10 & Thurs., Feb. 11 9-4 pm Center for Social Concerns 
Contact MaryAnn Roemer 289-7949 
"On the contrary, (Waldheim) repeatedly went along with unlawful acts and thereby made it easier for them to be carried out," it quoted the report as saying. 
Although it did not attribute crimes to Waldheim, an army lieutenant, APA quoted it as saying "that in general a cer­tain guilt could arise just from knowing about the violations of human rights in the place where a person was stationed, if the person concerned -out of lack of strength or courage ­violated his human duty to take steps against injustice." 
Government sources said privately the report was much tougher on W aldheim than had previously been expected. 
Austria commissioned the in­vestigation by an international group of historians last year, at Waldheim's request, and the panel delivered its conclusions Monday. The report is ex­pected to be released officially Tuesday. 


homes. About 1.5 million Pales­tinians live in the territories, which Israel captured from Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 Middle East war. 
Arab riots began Dec. 8 and forty-nine Palestinians have died at the hands of Israelis, according to U.N. figures, nearly all of them shot by sol­diers. 
In Arab east Jerusalem, riot police commandeered a Pales­tinian bread delivery van and used it to advance on rock­throwing Arabs in the Silwan neighborhood as they flung tear gas cannisters. 
Soldiers opened fire on Arabs who rioted after Aql's funeral in the Bureij refugee camp, wounding an 11-year-old girl and a 15-year-old boy, an army spokesman reported. He said of wounded elsewhere in the oc­cupied territories. 
Officials at the Ahli Arab hospital in Gaza City said sol­diers wounded two other Arabs when the protest spread to neighboring Nuseirat camp. Among the wounded was a 17­year-old shot in the chest, they said. 
The army said it was inves­tigating the death of a 23-year­old Palestinian who was shot in the head at Ka:fr Qaddum near Nablus in the West Bank. 
A military spokesman said soldiers discovered him in a taxi they stopped at a check­point, and he died later at Rafidyeh hospital in Nablus. He said soldiers did not appear to be involved in the death. 
Shifa hospital officials said a Palestinian from Gaza City was hospitalized with gunshot wounds in both legs. 
Two Arabs from Halhoul, a village near Hebron, were ad­mitted to Mukassad hospital in east Jerusalem with gunshot wounds in the groin and jaw, hospital officials said. Spokes­men at the Ramallah hospital said three Palestinians from Deir Omar, a nearby village, were treated for bullet wounds 
Anlerican Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

Tuesday, February 9, 1988  The Observer  page 5  


page 6 The Observer Tuesday, February 9, 1988 
USSR plans to withdraw 
Associated Press with many Moslem and Third (to see if there are any condi­World countries. tions). We've got to know what 
MOSCOW -Mikhail Gorbac­It also has been opposed at it means." hev said Monday that the home as Soviet casualties have The 5-year-old U.N.­Kremlin would begin pulling its mounted. Western diplomats brokered talks in Geneva be­troops out of Afghanistan on estimate as many as 10,000 So­tween Afghanistan and Pakis­May 15 and complete the viet soldiers have been killed tan, which stands in for the withdrawal within ten months in the war and that tens of insurgents, have made some if U.N.-brokered talks on the thousands have been maimed. progress, but have been stuck conflict reach a settlement. The cost of the Soviet involve­on working out a schedule for 
Gorbachev also said his ment is thought to total billions withdrawal. country wants no say in who of rubles. U.N. envoy Diego Cordovez, .i:v' governs Afghanistan or its Monday's statement was the who has been shuttling between politics after the estimated first mention by Gorbachev of Afghan and Pakistani delega­

; / t t
115,000 Soviet troops battling a specific date for the tions, says the talks are 
·~ t

Afghan guerrillas come home. withdrawal of the Red Army nearing their conclusion. They 
''The Afghans themselves units in Afghanistan to prop up are scheduled to resume later will decide the final status of Najib's government against a this month. their country among nations," widespread insurgency. Gorbachev indicated the Gorbachev said. Afghanistan's Gorbachev said the date of Kremlin was offering a future "is none of our busi­May 15 was fixed for the begin­timetable in hopes of forcing a ness," he said. ning of the Soviet pullout based breakthrough in the negotia­
Election plans bomb
Gorbachev's remarks left on the assumption that U.N.­tions. the future of Afghanistan's sponsored negotiations in "Seeking to facilitate a The announcement of election plans by President Ershad of Bangladesh Marxist president, Najib, in Geneva will reach an agree­speedy and successful conclu­were responded to with bombs and stones as the capital city of Dhaka serious doubt. ment no later than March 15. sion of the Geneva was rocked by a general strike. Police made desperate attempts to 
The Soviet leader's state­Soviet TV interrupted a talks ... the governments of maintain order as the strike continued Monday. ments were the clearest indi­serial film of Mikhail Sholok­the U.S.S.R. and the Republic cation yet that he is moving hov's "And Quiet Flows The of Afghanistan have agreed to rapidly to extricate his country Don," to broadcast Gorbac­set a specific date for beginning Board discusses events from the conflict he has termed hev's statement, assuring that the withdrawal of Soviet troops a "bleeding wound." his remarks would have the -May 15, 1988 -and to complete 
coming to Saint Mary's
The Kremlin sent troops, widest distribution. The state­their withdrawal within ten tanks and military hardware ment also was carried on the months," he said. By ANGELA MCDONALD dents and $10 for the public. 
Groups of twenty or more per­

into Afghanistan on Dec. 27, official Tass news agency and Previously, the Soviets had News Staff sons may purchase the tickets 1979, and presided over the re­was the lead item on the eve­talked only about pulling out A speech on date rape, a at $3 each.
placement of one Marxist ruler ning TV news. their troops in twelve months broadway musical, and a "Purlie is supposed to be an
by another. White House spokesman or less. On Jan. 7, Soviet junior class Mardi Gras were excellent show and we encour­The invasion has been a Marlin Fitzwater said Gorbac­Foreign Minister Eduard among the coming attractions age everyone to come out and
major irritant in Soviet rela­hev's statement "sounds like a Shevardnadze said the Soviet discussed by Saint Mary's Pro­support this classic musical,"tions with the United States and positive step and we hope it is, Union hoped to end its military gramming Board in their said Hashagen. 
has soured Kremlin relations but we need to see the fine print involvement this year. 
meeting Monday. Some of the other activities 
Mary Koss, a clinical psy­that will take place at Saint chologist at Penn State Univer­Mary's will be the movie sity, will speak on date and ac­"Pretty in Pink," which will be quaintance rape at 7:30p.m. in held on Feb. 12 and 13 in the Carroll Auditorium, according Carroll Auditorium . at 7, 9 and to Smith Hashagen, vice pres­11 p.m. and Club Tuesday will ident of Student Affairs. The feature Mike Callahan, a clas­title of her lecture is sic pianist on Feb. 23 from 9 to "Outrageous Acts and 11 p.m. Everyday Seduction." Admis­Looking ahead into April, the sion is free to the public. board will present the popular 
On Feb. 26 at 8 p.m. in movie "Three Men and a O'Laughlin Auditorium, Baby," April 9, 10 and 11. The Daedalus Productions will times will be announced at a present for one show only, the later date. hit broadway musical The junior class is having a 




AP Photo second to former senate majority leader Robert Dole, but beat Vice-President Bush by several percentage points. Story on page 1 . 
CILA upgrading aluminum fund drive 
By MICHELLE LAROSE  cern's  vans  to  transport the  But Abbott said she thinks  
News staff  cans to the recycling site," Ab- the greatest support has come  
bott explained,  "and  we  ran  from the dorm representatives  
The Community of Interna­ into problems with liquid spill- who promote the drive within  
tional  Lay  Apostolate  has  ing out of the cans."  the hall and handle the weekly  
recently begun to upgrade its  Tocorrectthis, thevanswere  pick-up of the  cans.  "Adding  
aluminum can fund drive.  replaced by  a  pick-up truck,  dorm reps was one of our best  
For  a  year and  a  half the  which also has more space for  improvements," said Abbott.  

"Purlie". Tickets are $5 for stu-Mardi Gras on Feb. 16 from 9 
Corrections 
Yesterday's Observer in­correctly reported thctt stu­dent body ·vice president candidate Laurin Dodd lives in Dillon Hall. He lives in Alumni Hall. 
Candidate Mark Chap­man's name was spelled in­correctly. 
Also spelled incorrectly was Dana Togni, a SBVP candidate. 
An article on the 1988-89 student body election incor­rectly reported the name of one of the District 5 candi­dates. The candidate's name is Spero Karas, not Spera. 
drive has collected scrap alu­
moving the cans, Abbott said. li!!!71~~!!!!~~~!!!!~~!!!!~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
minum for recycling, donating She cited the replacement of v~ ~ '-£5 •If //s
the proceeds to St. Hedgewig's the cardboard boxes originally Yl ~h . 'len ttflj::s il Outreach Center, a neighbor­used for the collections with p11:sevt.f. · · f<tb 
hood after-school help center 
large red trash cans as another ~ ~ ~n,
for area children, according to improvement. At present only pJ?'YJ
nt;,

Lisa Abbott, the project's co­five dorms have the bins, but ~ I J. founder. Abbott hopes to have outfitted SA-!."MA-~CH-5 
!~dt~~ ~~[sm.;e:~~h them by the k()kih_J fo,.. bJ!&.{;ed iJtdiViduals fr;
When the drive was first launched in the fall of 1986 by Abbott says that the drive pte'SeJ?c Or~ginq/ C}Ct:sj_ r 
two members of CILA, it netted 
has received support from ") 1"'11 V/ a/O" lc::. •• ~ "'\
from $10 to $15 a week, Abbott many groups both on and off-~ v1 v fYv /l\. said. Now Abbott reports that campus. Maintenance has COI'YieQL{ WI~S/C4/ ...... '-l.::-
five dorms alone made thirty­agreed to supply and install the J&; d:f. ~I ) ~ eight dollars last week. She trash can liners used in the bins phte 'P Z.r;; ~ L5 ~)said her goal is for the drive to once a week. In addition, the 1"..Dpy.'z.e. $75 $75 · 
increase to $70 to $80 on a reg­South Bend Waste Paper Com-~& · 4..c.,..,. -4.­ular weekly basis. pany, which does the recycling, :./ ph:.e. 'fJ....,._., "+'50 ~ "We had to keep it small in gives CILA 38 cents per pound M~f?y BETH 11-88 the beginning because we were 
of cans as opposed to their lrii-.iiii/A/iiiiiiiiiFOiiiiiA,B~O~L/~Tiiif.iiii'l?-iiiiiiYO~UiiiiTS~,~f.iii'l~/.-iiiif-i.:~()~fl?.iiii~~·iiB~·~/.~~/~'f~-11
using the Center for Social Con-usual rate of 36 cents. ­to 11 p.m. at the Elk's Lodge and the sophomore class will be sponsoring a sophomore parent weekend talent show at 9p.m. 
Also discussed was the pos­sibility of adopting a "plus" grading system. Hashagen said the Board would discuss this in further detail next week. 
STUDENT/YOUTH FARE. EACH WAY BASED ON ROUND TRIP FROM CHICAGO. CALL FOR FREE STU­DENT TRAVEL CATALOG. 100'5 OF OTHER DESTINATIONS AVAILABLE TO BUDGET TRAVELERS. 
ouncil Travvl 
29 E. Delaware • Chicago, IL 1---(312) 951-0585--­


Accent
Tuesday, February 9, 1988 paqe'7 

~ Books 
Batman: The Dark Knight Returns 
LL lJJb~\l 
Frank Miller Warner Books, $J2.95 

'Beauty and the Beast' now a monstrosity 
Y
ears ago when the writers Pearlman), a grotesque beast rupt society in which he lives not the best of dramatic The plots on the show are of the fairy tale "Beauty and complete with fangs, claws, so he does what any man performers, Hamilton must be somewhat interesting. One the Beast" sat down to create and more hair than Rapunzel. given the chance would do-­given credit for keeping a deals with an alchemist named an eternal children's story with Abandoned at birth, Vincent moves underground. He straight face throughout an John who is banished from the a message, did they have a TV was found and taken in by the desires to establish a close-knit entire episode. family by "Father." John begins series In mind? The answer is man he refers to as "Fa~her" family of underground dwellers to grow a lethal crop of drugs, with a high standard of morals. Ron Pearlman does a good which cause a great deal of _, Vincent is only one of several job as Vincent. His tone of deaths on the episode.
Joe Bucolo 

members of "Father's" family. voice in the sentimental scenes It Is also interesting to note The creator of "Beauty and is hypnotic and comforting. but that every episode's climax
To be continued... 
the Beast." Ron Koslow, seeks the hideous growls Vincent seems to be the same. Some­
to create a primeval world of makes in the violent scenes, how, the bad guys get Into the 
terror and wonder. The terror combined with his huge fangs tunnels to kill Vincent. who, In 
obviously "no;" however, the (Roy Dotrice), who lives in un­is above ground and the and saliva flying everywhere, the end, kills them. Sorry, Vin­
executives at CBS did. This derground tunnels beneath wonder below. Actually, the are revolting. In addition, the cent. but not even Rumples­
season, the network did a little Manhattan. wonder lies In the mystery be­beast is just plain ugly. tilskin himself could get any 
"hocus pocus" of Its own to Vincent nurses Catherine hind how this show ever made Couldn't the makeup people at gold out of this show. Despite 
bring the French classic to back to perfect health with it to the air. CBS create a beast that has the show's complete level of 
modern-day Manhattan for the medication and by reading her The acting on the show is some visually likable features? unbelievabillty, it Is doing well 
new series "Beauty and the excerpts from "Great Expecta­fair. Linda Hamilton does a Vincent surely isn't the "fairest In the ratings and always 
Beast." tions." (All beasts know Dick­decent job as Catherine. While one of all." destroys its competition. 

The new drama, which airs ens, right?) Vincent immedi­CBS' "Beauty and the Beast" 
on CBS Fridays at 8 p.m., ately falls in love with is a ridiculous beast of a show. deals with New York attorney Catherine and says, ''I've never While the performances of Its Catherine Chandler (Linda regretted what I am--until actors are fair and Its plots are Hamilton). Bored with corpor­now." Interesting, the show's premise ate law and, more Immediately, After plastic surgery, Cath­is too far-fetched to be enter­a corporate dinner party, Cath­erine regains her "beauty" and taining. In addition, the charac­erine takes a walk through the begins a new and exciting ter of VIncent (roaring one min­streets of Manhattan only to be career as an assistant district ute, reading novels the next) Is 
attacked by three men. Where's attorney. From there on out, far too unstable. And how dare the Good Fairy when you need the show becomes a "good the producers butcher a classic her? guys fight bad guys" series In so badly? What's next? Cin­
Catherine awakens In a dark. which the beast always comes derella goes under cover as a mystical cavern, her face to the rescue. prostitute to catch a drug wrapped In bandages since It What. pray tell, are Vincent dealer known as Peter Pan? was cut badly. The bandages and "Father" doing under­Come onl The American public are removed and she sees her ground? It seems that "Father" deserves more than this show rescuer, VIncent (Ron is very disgusted with the cor-could ever offer. 
seem confusing and con­
voluted. But the plot. spiced 
with Miller's social commen­
tary, moves at a jackhammer 
pace with unexpected twists 
towards a final, devastating 
confrontation. This is edge-of­
the-seat excitement and action 
with a message. 

The artwork by Klaus Janson and Lynn Varley is stark. shift­ing from dark gray and black shades to glaring bright yellow, blue and green hues on the same page. The book breaks away from the conventional comic book layout (six or eight "panels" to a page) to more closely resemble a storyboard for a movie script. The effect is both disorienting and engross­ing. catching the eye with a sense of chaos. 
Even though familiar details from the Batman myth appear throughout the story, even those items are presented in a new way. Robin, the Batmobile, the Batcave and Commissioner Gordon are all present, yet all different. 
The most startling difference is in Superman, the Man of Steel. In this story, he no is longer the fighter for justice. Now he has sold out to the government and has become a "super" strategic weapon to be used whenever America needs to flex some muscl~. 
"The Dark Knight Returns" leads the pack of the new breed of comic books, taking a deeper and darker look at the psyche of the superhero and of society. The comic book has transcended from an image of precociousness to that of art. 
ERIC BERGAMO accent writer 

T
en years have passed since the Batman was last seen. Now, Gotham Is a city under siege by punk gangs of youths armed with U.S. Army machine guns. The superheroes of yes­teryear have disappeared or, as In the case of the hero from Krypton, are working for the government as a human nu­clear deterrent. 
Then, In the dark of night as a torrential storm breaks over Gotham, criminals are found beaten and victims fearfully tell of a large, bat-like figure that perpetrated the deeds. 
The Batman, the dark knight. has returned to continue his "war" against crime. 
So begins "The Dark Knight Returns" by Frank Miller, one of the new graphic novels that have lead to a renaissance in the world of comic books. 
Don't expect the Batman in "The Dark Knight Returns" to resemble the camp Batman of the popular 1960s series. This Batman is a grim figure, enjoy­Ing with maniacal glee the pummeling he gives the bad guys. 
Miller's Batman is middle­aged, no longer the young man who fought crime day and night. His crime-bashing forays now wreak havoc upon his muscles and he has a genuine fear of suffering a heart attack. He is no longer as quick or strong as he had been, and wonders about his own mor­tality. 
And Batman must also con­Front a changing society--one that coddles a murderer like the Joker with an ultra-liberal pop psychologist advocating his release for "humanitarian" reasons, while lambasting Bat­man as a social menace. This society is concerned with 
image and seems to have lost 
all sense of the word ':Justice." 
Batman is no longer treated as 
a hero, but as an enemy. 
Batman also confronts him­self and his reasons for his religious crusade against crime. It is an obssession that almost destroys him by the end of the story. 
Miller's plot takes scathing looks at all aspects of society In the course of Batman's return and subsequent rejec­tion by a right-wing Reaganesque government and society. Miller manages to criticize the media, civil liber­tarians, government bureaucrats and the callous­ness of people in general. 
The most stinging rebuke is of "The President." a thinly dis­guised Ronald Reagan, and how his America is actually a reactionary dictatorship. 
The story, for those not familiar with the genre, may 

~~-----~------­
Tuesday, February 9, 1988 
Coke boycott a wrong step 
There are right ways and wrong ways to increase student awareness and participation in showing disap­proval for the University's investment policies in South Africa. 
One of the recent proposals put forth by the Anti­Apartheid Network is a student boycott of Coca-Cola products in the dining halls, residence halls, and class buildings. The network hopes that by boycotting Coke products, students will voice their opinion on the Uni­versity's policy and Coca-Cola's practices. 
The proposed boycott of Coke products, however, is a wrong step in the quest for student support in chal­lenging the University's policies towards investments in South Africa. 
First, why did the Network choose to boycott Coke when there are other major corporations guilty of the same ''hypocrisy'' in South Africa? Should the students stop using IBM micro-computers and software? Should students stop buying genuine GM parts when their Oldsmobiles and Buicks break down this winter? What about the companies that are still operating in South Africa full bore? Why haven't the students been in­structed what products to boycott in these instances? 
Second, the boycott of Coke is supposedly unrelated to the fact that Coca-Cola's chairman Donald Keough is also the chairman of the Notre Dame Board of Trus­tees. Yet, on the same day the Board of Trustees an­nounced that the University would continue its policy of selective disinvestment, the Anti-Apartheid Network announced that it would organize a boycott of Coca-Cola. The timing of the announcement makes the motive of the boycott suspect. 
If the Anti-Apartheid Network wants to increase the student awareness of the situation in South Africa, it should attempt to do so in a way that does not make it appear to be taking personal jabs at Keough. 
The third reason is that a Coke boycott has little chance of success. Because the University has a contract with the Coca-Cola company, there is little choice for students in the dining halls. Because there is little alternative, students could ra­tionalize their breaking the boycott even if they support divestment. It's thus difficult to gauge the level of sup­port for the boycott, which defeats its purpose. 
Instead of supporting the boycott, the Anti-Apartheid Network should continue with educational programs and publicity. Its members should attempt to provide more literature, movies and presentations on the evils of the apartheid system. 
Asking students to boycott Coke, a random product, is thus ineffective and trivializes the efforts to end South African apartheid. Indeed, a Coke boycott sets the cause back further than it could ever advance it. 
-The Observer 
More than 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns ap­
peared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number 
of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. 
Write to P.O. Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, 
IN. 46556 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admmistration of either 1nst1tution. The News is reported as accurately and ob1ectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
•· 
View 

Coca-Cola 
Boycott poorly reasoned 
You know, symoblic acts occupy a significant place in our lives. Every morning school children recite the Pledge of Allegiance. The strains of our national anthem are a fixture before most sporting events. Many legislative bodies begin their ses­sions with a brief prayer. None of these actions are hugely significant in and of themselves. But taken as a whole, they reflect America's un­deniable patriotic and religious her­itage. 
Kevin Smant 

guest column 
Symbolism can play a large role in American politics as welL The only problem is that a survey of this campus would lead one to believe that all symbolic acts are owned by the Left. Members of Witness For Peace march to Congressman Hiler's office and read propaganda concerning supposed Contra atrocities. A St. Mary's professor proclaims his intention to go on a week-long hunger strike against Contra aid (now that must have changed minds in Washington). And, last but not least, our local Anti­Apartheid Network desires all of us to affect the course of world events by refusing to guzzle Coca-Cola prod­ucts. 
Now the arguments both pro-and anti-divestment from South Africa have been exhaustively examined on this page before. There is no need to do so again. Suffice it to say that I am not convinced that punishing South Africa economically, and thereby hurting blacks, is the an­swer. South Africans have demon­strated a clear ability to bypass sanctions. Nor do we help our moral cause by supporting the program of the African National Congress, who are clearly guilty of many terrorist atrocities, while ignoring moderates such as Chief Buthelezi. 
But that should not be our main concern here. Instead, we should ask a question: why? Why are we being subjected again to the old liberal double-standard (that is, shout op­position to any right-wing regime, such as South Korea, the Phillipines, Chile and so on, but urge "un­derstanding" for Vietnam, Aim­babwe or the Soviet Union)? Why is South Africa almost the only foreign­policy question on this campus' foreign policy agenda? Is it because nothing else catches policymakers' 
?
• 
attention? Thousands of Afghan children, with their hands blown off by Soviet "toys," would beg to differ. So would hundreds of Haitians gunned down in the streets as they tried to cast their ballots. So would thousands of Vietnamese "boat people." But what do we hear of these developments from our local activists? Nothing. 
"We cannot do things just because they feel good, or because slogans... sound good." 
"We can't cover every issue," they will say. But you are responsible for what you stand for. Let's be up front, members of the Anti-Apartheid Net­work (and Witness for Peace, and others). I'm challenging you. You should examine not only what you oppose -but also what you implicitly propose. With your Coke boycott, do you really wish to stand in the same corner as the African National Congress? Do you hope for a bloody revolution in South Africa, which is 
anc 
what a deteriorating ec lead to? And you, Witne You implicitly stand shoulder with Daniel 0 demonstrated tyranny i Does all of this rest e collective consciousne yourselves. You rea feelings for black right same time, you ignore tions of individual (a rights. You chant your peace and "justice" America, while you apo man with the largest a most repressive state i Is this really what you 
We cannot do things they feel good, or bee ("Coke sweetens apart good. We must consid quences of our actions. support the Coke boyco complish no purpose; · hard choices, it is not nificant cause facing u ly, its supporters are he a moral ground zero i turn back. So have a Co really have to boycott why not vodka? 
Kevin Smant is a grad in the department of h regular Viewpoint colu 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief.... .. ................. Kevm Becker Bus;,ess Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor ............................. Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor . . ............................ Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke 
Viewpoint Editor... Sports Editor.......... Accent Editor... Saint Mary's Editor... Photo Editor... . 
. ...............Chris Murphy  Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin  
... .  . ....  Denn1s Corrigan  Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton  
. . Michael Naughton  Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele  
Sandy Cenmele  Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton  

.. ......... Jim Carroll 
Founded November3,19ee 



Coke's South African divestment policy illusory 
As long ago as 1959, Nobel Peace create a new company called Amal­Laureate Albert Luthuli, the presi­gamated Beverages, and moving its dent of the African National syrup plant to neighboring Congress (ANC), urged the interna­Swaziland, a black-administered tional community to impose eco­kingdom dependent on South Africa. nomic sanctions on South Africa. He Second, Coke sells its syrup to argued that, ''the economic boycott Amalgamated Beverages in South of South Africa will entail undoubted Africa, thus franchising out its hold­hardship for Africans. We do not ings while it continues to do business, doubt that. But if it is a method which make profits and support the apar­shortens the day of bloodshed, the theid state through corporate taxa­
suffering to us will be a price we are tion. willing to pay." South African organ­Third, despite claims of disinvest­my could izations such as the ANC, the United ment, Coke continues to have the 
for Peace. Democratic Front <UDF), the Com­largest share of the South African shoulder-to­mittee of South African Trade Uni­soft drink industry (69 percent of :ega and his ons <COSATU) and individuals like sales). l Nicaragua. Bishop Desmond Tutu continue the Fourth, the pension fun9 of Amal­;ily on your appeal for immediate international gamated Beverages is invested in ls? Look at sanctions on the government of the South African armaments indus­!:firm your South Africa. The divestment move­try. 1, yet, at the ment supports this call for complete Fifth, Coke has not cut its eco­
ANC viola­cessation of economic ties with South nomic ties with South Africa; its new d innocent) Africa. economic relationship with South \edication to Africa is "pseudo -disinvestment." in Central Zandra Mencer Coke's example is setting a danger­>gize for the ous precedent, which has already my and the been followed by companies such as
guest column
the region. IBM and General Motors. vant? What can members of the Notre ust because Besides writing to members of Dame community do to combat this 
luse slogans Congress, boycotts of companies problem? Join the National Boycott !id.") sound with ties in South Africa can also of Coca-Cola products. Products to the conse­have an effect. To further the push boycott, which are sold right here on So, I do not toward complete divestment from this campus, include: Coke, Diet 
• 
t. It will ac-South Africa, the Anti-Apartheid Coke, Tab, Sprite, Fanta and 1 a world of Network of Notre Dame has decided Ramblin' Rootbeer soft drinks; ae most sig­to Jom the already-established Five-Alive, Hi-C and Minute Maid ; and frank­boycott against the Coca-Cola Bot­juices. lding toward tling Company. Why is this boycott Remember a percentage of every f they don't necessary? After all, Coke claimed 50 cents you put in a Coke machine te, and if we to have disinvested from South goes to support the racist govern­
something, Africa in 1986. However, the Coke ment in South Africa. Be conscien­divestment was not "the real thing." tious. Support the Boycott. 
First, Coke's "disinvestment" Zandra Mencer is a senior in the Col­ate student plan merely involves selling its bot­lege of Arts and Letters and co­tory and a tling plants to South African inves­chairperson of the Anti-Apartheid 
mist. tors -often its own managers -to Network at Notre Dame. 
Doonesbury 
t(}£LL, Y£5, I 6U&S5 I HAVt.. 
OAOOY, YOU CAN'T 8t. 40! 115 PR08A8l-Y8l5C.AiJ% IM 
5011£BOI7Y'5 PLAYING A ABOUT 7{}&40. 50M&T!M&5 
TRICK. ON YOU' RDBIN HCXJO GRDIAIN-UP565TFUNNYABOUT 
ISN'T40.t t.Vt.N OIN05AUR5 I ?HeiR 81KTHOAY5, 
AREN'TAUOW&O 7V l?£40l 40 IS 700 OU?! 
r~ge ~ -9 

P.O. Box Q 
Irish hockey a new experience 
Dear Editor: 

I was excited about Eric Ber­gamo's column concerning the Irish hockey team in the Feb. 4 issue. The timing couldn't have been better. Our skaters deserve this kind of recognition-they've earned it. Notre Dame hockey players hit hard, hustle and even "mix it up" on oc­casion. It's intense. 
We all know that the crowd makes a difference, especially when the team hears the boards banging for that extra effort. 
Let's not only break another atten­dance record, but also fill more than a third of the stands. Surround the ice with screaming fans. 
There are no pre-game tailgaters (not yet), but I can assure you-and Mr. Bergamo would support me on this-that a weekend of hockey might even beat watching the Cotton Bowl. 
There's no way to know, unless you go, that a great start to Friday and Saturday nights, for sure, begins by stopping by the Joyce ACC to watch the Fighting Irish shoot and score! 
Chris Kit<:ke Off-campus February 7, 1988 
Field hockey fate dishonest 
Dear Editor 

We have been told that the decision to cancel the varsity field hockey program at Notre Dame is irrever­sible. I suppo>e there really is noth­ing more to Sdy. There is only this. In the winter of 1987 I remember Jill Lindenfeld (the coach) discussing the possibility of such a thing with the team. She thought it would be unfair to bring recruits into a pro­gram that was in danger of being cancelled, but she had been reas­sured that the program was safe, and any changes wouldn't occur until five or six years down the road. Sup­posedly the decision to cut field hockey was made only last January. Even so, what of the promises made, and the University's responsibility to last years recruits? It is difficult for me to imagine that with the acquisi­tion of three new women's varsity sports, that the athletic department wasn't sure it was going to phase field hockey out all along. 
There is also this. Mid-way during our season while we practiced on the astro turf, our grass field was being dug up for the installation of a soft ball field. Coach Lindenfeld asked once again if the program was in danger, was again reassured and so began recruiting. Eighty-seven recruits later (which entailed visits and considerable letter writing), she was finally told that the program was being dropped. Three recruits had made definite plans to attend Notre Dame. 
I am a senior and so the decision to drop hockey does not personally affect me. But I cannot help but feel disappointment when I think of the particular pride and enthusiasm which the field hockey team reflected upon the University, which did not have enough respect for the individual players to be honest and straightforward with them. Nine freshman whose decisions to attend college had weighed heavily on the existence of a field hockey program (not to mention, those who have played all along and those who have patiently waited to finally play in their upperclassmen years) have all been slighted. As I watch many of the freshman preparing to transfer to other schools that do have field hockey programs (and think of older players who would have transferred or chosen other schools had they seen this coming), I can't help but think these girls thought they were coming to a school to play hockey and get a good education at a University that prides itself on having a sense of human caring and honesty. 
In the autumn the athletic depar­tment said don't worry, and the field hockey team members played their hearts out for their school. By the end of the season the softball field had been installed. 
Mary Wagner Off-campus February 5, 1988 
In defense of the CILA program 
Dear Editor: 
The following article is being pre­sented in defense of the recycling program begun and presently being enlarged by the members of CILA. The program will involve the recyl­ing of aluminum cans in the follow­ing halls: Alumni, Badin, Breen­Phillips, Dillon, Farley, Howard, Lewis, Lyons, Keenan, Pangborn, Pasquerilla West, St. Ed's and Walsh. CILA would like to thank those halls that have cooperated thus far and to encourage the residents of participating dorms to make the extra effort of tossing soda and beer cans in the receptacles provided in­stead of the garbage. It is crucial that each dorm fully participate in order to make it worthwhile for the South Bend Recycling Center to come through and pick up our cans. By taking part, you will not only be aiding children involved in the Out­reach Program in South Bend, but also joining those who can no longer ignore the alarming problem of waste disposal in our country. 
Lisa Abbott Lyons Hall February 1, 1988 

Garry Trudeau 
OAD, OAf), 
YOUR& NOT 
40! 7HAT'5 RIOICUWUS' 
MOMMY~ 
ONL-Y901 
\ 
Quote of the Day 
"Just  because  I'm  not  nor­ 
mal  doesn't  mean  I'm  
weird."  
D.L.  Stewart  

'Paternity Ward' 

page 10 The Observer Tuesday, February 9, 1988 
Sports Briefs 
Lisa Kuhns has been named North Star Conference Player of the Week. Kuhns scored 16 points in Notre Dame's loss to Tennessee and hit for 19 in Saturday's upset of Duke. -The Observer 
Maureen Shea was named Notre Dame's Most Valuable Player at the volleyball team's banquet. Gretchen Kraus received the St. Joseph Valley Student-Athlete Award. -The Ob­server 
Women's basketball will be the topic on WVFI's "Speaking of Sports." Call 239-6400 to join guests Heidi Bunek and Sandy Botham, and host Rick Rietbrock from 10-11 p.m. -The Observer 
Varsity and Novice crew teams will have a mandatory meeting Thursday, Feb. 11, in room 127 Nieuwland to plan Spring Break trip. Any questions, call Brian (1000). -The Ob­server 
Anyone interested in forming a women's rugby team please call Lauren (3560), Sarah (4039) or Kathy (4067). No experience neces­sary. -The Observer 
The 5-10 and under league needs someone to organize next year's league. If interested, call Jim Manning at 283-1459. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The~ Notre Dame office, located on the third flool' of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, IICCePts classified -'-tieing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvough FrtcSar. The~ Saint Mllry's office, located on the third floor of H-oo-Collge Center, accepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frldar. Deadline for next-day claaslfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaslfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five charKt1lrs per day. 
NOTICES 
Sony Diskettes Contact Tim Dierks of MadMacs for the best price on Sony D&OD 3.5" diskettes for your Macintosh r other computer. Call 283·2t 01 and help support the Macin· tosh Users Group! Guaranteed for life 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 277­7406 
··························· 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
HALLMARK PRESENTATIONI!AII wei· come. rm 124 Hayes Healy, Tues. Feb9. 7 pm 
Hallmark Presentation!!AII welcome. rm 124 Hayes healy, Tues Feb 9 7 pm 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: GOLD-RIMMED GLASSES IN A BROWN CASE ON TUES JAN. 26. THE CASE SAID SEBASTIAN ON IT. IF YOU FOUND THEM PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X2039 OR X2040. 
LOST: VARSITY LETTER JACKET TAKEN FROM THE LOFTUS WEIGHTROOM ON FEB. 1 BETWEEN 5-6 PM. I WORKED 4 YEARS TO GET THIS AND WOULD APPRECIATE IT IF YOU COULD RETURN IT. CALL JOHN 1075. 
I LOST A PAIR OF HUGE, WOOL, OR· ANGE, LIGHT BLUE,AND GREEN MIT· TENS IN O'SHAG. PLEASE RETURN TO TIFFANY 3390 IF FOUND ·THEY ARE THE ONLY THINGS THAT WILL EVER MATCH AN ORANGE COAT. THANK YOU! 
FOUND: White and light blue Red Sky wool and acrylic sweater on sidewalk be­tween Grace and P.E. lasl Friday. Call 271-0845 
FOUND: GOLD RING ON NORTH QUAD. CALL KATHY TO IDENTIFY. 2892. 
LOS!ILOSTI!LOSTIILOST!ILOSTI! BROWN LEATHER WALLET WITH GOLD LETTERING C.S. ON FRONT. PLEASE RETURN IT. HIGH SENTIMEN­TAL VALUE!! CALL x2508 REWARDIIREWARDII 
LOST: WALLET -GREY, LEATHER wl !.D. KEYS ·FOUR KEYS ON SILVER RING I lost !hem sometime on Saturday 
Z.S or Sunday 2/1 at either the Huddle or South Dining Hall. Please call Rich at 272-4516. 
LOST: MAN'S GOLD RING WITH ONYX SETTING, FRIDAY NIGHT, IN O'LAUGHLIN AUD. OR IN BACK PAS· SAGE OF ART EXHIBIT AREA. SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 232-15551 REWARD. 
LOST ·IRISH FRIENDSHIP RING (Ciaddaugh) I lost a small (size 4) Irish friendship ring last Friday night. This ring has great sentimental value, so PLEASE return it if you found it. A reward will be offered. Call 283·3484 if you have my ring. Thanx. 
FOUND: AT THE LEWIS SYR A NAVY BLUE SPORTCOAT. THE BRAND NAME IS JOHN ALEXANDER; MADE FOR G. FOX. CALL BRENNAN AT 2158 TO CLAIM. 
LOST: Pair of black HOTFINGER gloves Sat. Nile between ACC and Dillon If found please call Rob 1764 because my hands are cold. Thanx. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND. 277­3097, 683-8889. 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED RANCH 3 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS WASHER, DRYER, OVEN, STOVE, REFRIGERATOR, SOFTNER. GR~AT NEIGHBORHOOD, OFF AN­GELA BLVD. IDEAL FOR 3 STUDENTS CALL 232·3616 
6 BDRM, 2 BATH WSHOWERS. ON BUS LINE TO ND. FURNISHED, GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD, $13Q-STUDENT & UTILITIES. 233·9947 OR 287·3530. 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955'255· 3664 
EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288· 0955 
WANTED 
WANTED Macintosh serial HARD DRIVE for Mac 512e with no SCSI port. Call 239·5772 and leave a message for Matt. 
Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. 
MALE TRANSFER STUDENT LOOKING FOR CHEAP SUB-LET FOR SUMMER MONTHS CALL X3484. 
OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Asla. All fields. $900-2000 mo. Sights.,... lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND. CALL RICH AT 1148. 
D DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS WKND CALL STEVE AT £1078 
FOR SALE 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government. Gat the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
Martin M-36 acoustic guitar $775 232· 6528 
Hohner 5·string bluegrass banjo.. prfessional quality $375 232-6528 
Yamaha PA, slave amp, mini-monitors $1500 for system 232-6528 
Tascam 4-track Portastudio Great for bands, demos. $850 232-6528 
'81 Ford Escort 2-Door, 4 speed, stereo cassette. $1995 or best offer call £1999, Pat 
Cruise for 2 frm Ft Lauderdale W'Sdays in Freeport ¢3days near Orlando-$160 Call 259-4317 after 5 
TICKETS 
WANTED: TWO G.A.s FOR UCLA GAME PLEASE CALL AMY £2845 
Needed: Two GA's for Vanderbilt game. Call Pete at xt 033. 
Wanted: Three UCLA hoops tix (either GA's or stud.) Will pay good $ please call Paul at 233-9660. 
UCLA Need two GAs for the UCLA game. Please call JR at 283·1538. 
Please help a guy who just remembered his parents are coming for the game. 
HELP!!!!! Need UCLA Tickets BIG TIME CALL 271·0868 ask for Missy, Carol or Susan Will trade lower arena tickets!!! 
Need Vanderbilt tix-GA's and STUD's· Mike 1699 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE UCLA GAME PLEASE CALL NANCY x3885 
UCLA TICKETS WANTED 2 lower arena student or GA tickets. Call Mike at x3698 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
···················suMMEii.:ioas·················· 
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORNINGS 914-3814224 
IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. AVOID THE RUSH AND COME IN ANY DAY FROM NOW UNTIL THURSDAY, FEB. 11. 
NEED RIDE TO PURDUE FOR WKEND 2'12-14 GREG £1562 
VALENTINE'S DAY BOXER-GRAMS !!!!!! Have Valentine Boxer-Grams delivered to your friends, roommates or sweethearts. Buy in SDH :W & 2'1 0 or call Chris X2521 
•• F(s,l): I 0,1 
•• Dinner, Movie, You. What more Is 
there In life ? •• Eddie Growler •• 
Business & Society In Japan Optional Credit-Financial Aid International Internship Programs 406 Colman Bldg., 811 1st Ave. Seattle, WA 98104 (206) 623-5539 
Business & Society In Japan Optional Credit-Financial Aid International Internship Programs 406 Colman Bldg., 8111st Ave. Seattle, WA 98104 (206) 623-5539 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GARRETT!! LOVE, Vicki 
..... ................_ ............ . 
ATTENTION ALL HISTORY AND AMST 
MAJORS Volunteers needed to guide tours and give slide show presentations for South· hold Restoration in South Bend. Learn exciting facts about the city!!! Must be depe11dable and have own transports· lion. For more info contact Leslie Choitz. Exec director 234-3441. 
Enjoy Coke 
Things We Won't Miss 1: Ann Petlifer 
To Biii"Batman"Fitzpatrick, Rumor has it you took a bad ride down the Bat pole. BOOFI BOF! BANG! AHHH! GUYS, call 1031 for the true story. 
EARN MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK! JPW needs student workers. Call 239­7814 for more info! 
SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMAL!!! 
SENIOR FORMAL!!! BID SALES MARCH 1,2,3 SENIOR FORMALIII WATCH YOUR MAIL FOR DETAILS 
SENIOR FORMALIIII GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII SENIOR FORMALIIII CLUB DANKISI!! CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII 

Official sponsor of the 1988 Winter Olym· pies. 
Kim Woodward: Here's your personal. Hope you didn't get the wrong impression after seeing my "flag" in Alumni. 
Happy 20th Birthday Jennifer! Love, Mom and the three bros 
TOP 10 QUOTES FROM THE' HOME OFFICE IN CRYSTAL MT. 10) KENT: "...IT WASN'T FALLING OUT, IT WAS GOING IN." 9) "DIP DIP DOUBLE DIP 
DRINK." B) "I'M GOING TO THE MOON, AND I'M BRINGING A. .." 7) "THANK YOU MR. SMITH ... YOUR WEL· COME A--..·-." 6) "WHERE ARE THE KEYS?" 5) ANDY: "HERE LISA, HERE GIRL, COME SLEEP IN MY BED." 4) "YOU ONLY KNOW ONE KIND OF SCREWDRIVER, SHARON." 3) "HAY MR. BEER BONG, GIVE ME YOUR..." 
2) "SHARON, HOW'S THE HOT DOG ... IT SUCKS WHEN YOU HAVE TO PAY FOR IT." AND THE NUMBER ONE QUOTE FROM THE HOME OFFICE IN CRYSTAL MT. AND IT'S QUITE A SHOCKER ... 1) SHH, SHH; AHH, AHH; SHH, SHH; AHH, AHH!" 
Nothing hurts more than a love that is spurned, therefore this love will have to be earned! But Vivian, how do I know that I've got the attention of right one? Show me a sign and then I'll show mine. 
Good Luck Tracy, Matt & Alex! I hope all your exams are easy. I wish I could be an Enginerd too. I'm missing out on all the fun! Laura 
.. ................... Mike-Thanks for Friday night. It was alot of fun. L 
.............................. 
HEY NO AND ST. MARY'S: There's a new groove in town. THE 
GROOVE BCAF Talent Show Feb. 13 BCAF Fashion Show Feb. 20 Plus CHIPS Feb 23 ...and the kick drum is the fault. 
THERE IS NO ROOM FOR A WHIP AT A HOCKEY GAME. 
THAT GEORGE HARRISON SONG SUCKS. BAN THE WHIP FROM HOCK­EY! 
Teddybear: Out a little late, where were you? Allante: I was out, now I'm back Teddybear: It must have been fun, its now 4:15 Allante: Uh-huh, see my balloon? Teddybear: You're weird 
Coast to Coast It the taste with the most 
Coke 

QUESTION: DO YOU GET NAUSEOUS HEARING "I WANT YOUR SEX"? SOLUTION: COME AND DANCE TO CHRISTIAN MUSIC AT THEODORE'S TONIGHT!! 
9PM TO 11 :30PM . 
Little Vanna, Had a great time "touching base" at the SYR with the now legendary "double boot". (yes, Yes, YES!) Wish you the best this weekend in the EDC. By the way what's up Sunday? (Could be sweet, dude!) Love ya, Steve the cabbie (who still doesn't have his tip) 
TO MY HELL DATE: "Let's get n?k?d," I said with a smile, then turned and walked away. Well, "I hope to see you again!" What are you doing this weekend? Give me a call and make your former DILLONITE brother proud of you. 
COLLEEN WAGNER How's that one calorie looking on you? I'd love to find out Friday night at the St. Ed's S.Y.R.! Call 2681 and ask for C.B. --The guy at the bar with the Pepsi at Lewis 
S.Y.R Saturday night. 
Hey' Could you sell me UCLA ticket(s)? That would be cool! Call Pete at X3105. 
STEVE H..f'm glad you followed your gut feeling--J 
JUNIORS !II 
TONITE IS... 
MARGARITA VILLE 
CHI-CHI'S 
BE THERE. 
JUNIORS 1!111 
MARGARITA VILLE 
TONITEI 
JUNIORS !Ill 
MARGARITAVILLE Ill 
JUNIORS Ill 
MARGARITAVILLE!!! 

Coke: The Choice of a New Generation 
Mr. LA .. With the hours that you're keeping, it's no wonder thai' you get any sleep at all. What would Sam say. "Shoot me." 
Last Chance For Spring Break '881 Limited space remains at South Padre, North Padre, Daytona Beach, Fort Wal­ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado tor skiing. Hurry, Call Sunchase Tours toll free 1-BOG-321-5911 lor resarva­tlons and Information TODAY. Credit cards accepted. 
DANCE!' DANCE!! DANCE!! COME DANCE TO CHRISTIAN MUSIC AT THEODORE'S TONIGHT 9 PM TO 11 :30 PM. 
HEY POLC, CAN YOU HANDLE ALL THE GIRLS WITH YOUR NEW IMAGE? 
Theology Forum Members: Pleasa at­tend an Important meeting on Tueeday February 11 at 10:00 P.M. In the first floor lounge of St. Edwards Hall. Your fellow students-Dave Klnkoff, Marty Tracey and ARne Marie WoH-wlll dis­cuss their papers on Hebrew Scrlp­turas. Pizza will be sarved. Support your fellow students. 
CINDY, THANKS FOR THE GREAT TIME SAT. NIGHT. YOU LOOKED SWEET ·DOUBLE D 
ED FITZGERALD: YOU'VE TAKEN MY HEART, SO WHY NOT TAKE ALL OF ME ..GUESS WHO? 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL MOVIE NIGHT Tuesday, Feb. 9 at 8:00 p.m. STAND BY ME at the St. Edward's Hall first floor lounge 
TO MY WEIRD PALS-EM, DR AND JW! 
D BOBBY CARPENTER C Y WOOD ANY! DO THE NASTY W'YOU IF YOU GO LIMP AFTER 10 MIN.? 
HAIRCUTS:Only $4 !!I I'll come to YOUR room! Call Jean 4244 

Irresponsible types, We swiped a per­fectly good gumby from an open room. We like him and he likes us. We must be careful! luv, Friends Of T.D. 
LOVE YOU BURGERHEAD! 
KATHY LONGSTRETH WHY DO ALL THE GOOD ONES HAVE TO BE TAKEN????? YOUR SYR DATE 
Dearest Ryn, Happy 2oth B·day! To that older woman in my life, do you remember kiwi fruit? butterflies? or ping-pong? You're the greatest! Love, Casey 
'DA SCREANIN' BROTHERS OF MIDGETHOOD WILL RISE FROM THE ASHES ... 
KAREN JULKA-Happy 21 
From your bro. 
Gimme a 
Gimme a 
Gimme a Redneck girl 
A Rednect girl with her name 
On the back of her belt... 
-Jimmy C. 
Hey Jimmy He threw her in the ocean and then what? 
PADREISLAr.DS I've found sure thing in Miami. Need to sell round trip ticket to CORPUS CHRIST! from CHICAGO. call MARK at £2727 
HAVE A GREAT TIME AT THE TRI-MIL? FOR INFO AND TO GET ON THE MAILING LIST OF CHICAGO'S "THE GREAT PRETENDERS" CALL MARK X2318 
NEED 1 STUDENT OR GA UCLA TICKET CALL KAREN 277·5195 
JMR I LOVE YOU CNC 
GRIEF SUPPORT FOR THOSE STUDENTS WHO HAVE LOST A PARENT, BROTHER. OR SISTER... SUPPORT AND TRUE UN· DERSTANDING OF WHAT YOU ARE GOING THRU. WE UNDERSTAND. CALL FOR MEETING TIME 277·1837. 
DEAR KATHY (aka PERSONAL QUEEN) HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY. YOU'RE THE GREATEST!! LOVE YA, QUACKER 
TO LARRY'S KIDS: FAMOUS HOCKEY QUOTES FROM FRI. 25 1. THE PUCK IS YOUR FRIEND. 2. IF WE'RE NOT GOING TO SCORE, I WANT TO SEE SOME GOOD VIOLENCE. 3. WATCH OUT FOR THAT ICE, IT IS PRETTY SLICK. THANKS FOR THE FUN. SEE YOU AT THE NEXT GAME. MARY 
TO KATHY PANOS YOU ARE SUCH A GODDESS. HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY BABE. I LOVE YOU. M. • 
TOP 10 REASONS I SHOULD HAVE GONE AWAY THIS WEEKEND 1) MY ROOM IS CLEAN 2) MY PHONE IS BROKEN 3) I'M SICK 4) MY HEAT DOESN'T WORK 5) MY SINK IS POS­SESSED 6) MY DATE(HAJ-HAJ­HAJ)BROUGHT ME FLOWERS FROM KROGER 7) I GOT A GOOD NIGHTS SLEEP 8·10) DUE TO MY OWN STUPIDITY MY KEYS, MY 10 AND THE BLACK PURSE THEY WERE IN ARE GONE FROM THE REGINA· MCCAND­LESS FORMAL. DID YOU PICK THEM UP BY ACCIDENT? PLEASE CALL 'MARC!' AT 264·4075 
JOE INCANDELLA·CJUST THOUGHT SINCE I WAS HERE.. THANKS FOR GIVING ME SOME PERSPECTIVE ON THE SITUATION. THEY ALL HAVE MAJOR INTERPERSONAL PROB­LEMS,RIGHT?? ANYWAY MY WARD· ROBE NEEDED A BOOST! THANKS, LIZ 
To the Keenan guy who got a "BLESS YOU" from a girl with dark glasses on Mon., BOY, are you cute! SHADES 
Brian, Chris, Jim & John·mThanks for a fantastic time Sat. night·ILet's do it again some time! Remember, Bob Evans is GOING places! -Erin,Julie,Julie,& Maureen 
TOP 10 QUOTES OF FRIDAY NIGHT tO."Where do you put the gum?"9."Uncle Who? ... From Where?"B."Bed Aerobics· Time to switch !"7."I just SAT in something wet!" 6."Ready Dear?"5."1 swear to God!Seriously I am soo confusedl"4. "I travel light-BUD LIGHT (in the laundry bag)."3."Uncle Mike-How true IS your aim?"2."A tradition of women with tired arms on top."!. "Plaid pajamas are soo hot!-Need a little air-conditioning?" It's been awesome I Lets do it again some­time This time its up to you guys to plan for the DAYS ahead. HAPPY VALEN· TINES DAY! 


........--~---~------~ ------~---~~ --------~-----~---------~-­
Tuesday, February 9, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Calgary prepares to host Games 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta -More athletes, including U.S. bobsledders and speed skaters, converged on Calgary Monday for the Winter Olympics, just ahead of a storm that was ex­pected to drop as much as eight inches of snow in the nearby mountains. 
As of noon Monday, 577 of the 1,684 athletes registered to compete in the Games had ar­rived in this southern Alberta cowtown and oil center of 650,000. The Games begin on Saturday. 
Along with athletes and team officials, tourists by the thousands also crowded into town, some of whom would need help from a crisis com­mittee hastily put together by the city to deal with problems arising from a booking agency scandal in which up to 3,000 people could be left without hotel rooms. 
International Olympic Com­mittee president Juan Antonio Samaranch also officially opened the IOC's 93rd Session Monday evening with a speech tough on drugs and easy-going on boycotters. 
An inch or two of snow fell over Calgary Sunday night. En­vironment Canada, this country's equivalent to the Na­tional Weather Service, said arctic air would drop afternoon temperatures to around 0 degrees, and as much as 8 inches of snow could to fall overnight in the mountain areas. 
He's Taller and cuter. 
Th L Gang
~~e~a~n::g=::=:::::=:====:::o::=:;:::~:;-~• BACON CHEESEBU
·;: • O S 
.... f!.VlLR'i DA 
--tS~o.oo Oldies Par+y . ·. Po...i/y ~:30PM-8:~PM. · • ALL U CAN EAT/O~INJ<
,..u;.e: A OMI.SSIOr-1 lrr 9100PM 
CHECKERS C.AFE 
·~ $21JI 00 PER DAV 
. .,, PI..US lAX 
=-PERPERSDN 
OUAD occuPA.NC.'i 
·~~DAYTONA 
-. ~~OADWAY AND 
~-.:... 1-800-871../-1822 .:· 
-C' -·. 
DAYTONA BEACH FLORIDA 
With temperatures expected to rise back above freezing by Wednesday, there was a poten­tial problem at the two Rocky Mountain ski venues: Can­more, site of Nordic events, and Nakiska, site of Alpine events. 
John Rule, venue chairman at Canmore, said a few inches of new snow would not be a problem, "as long as we don't get a big dump." 
If too much snow falls on the ski trails, it will have to be either removed or packed down. 
"We're always packing it, walking it and grooming it," Alpine venue chairman Lou MacEachern said of the ski trails. "That's just part of the game. This won't be enough snow to give us any trouble." 
MacEachern said the Alpine trails were ready for racing. 
"We would have liked to have races two days ago," MacEac­hern said. "It's beautiful, just beautiful. This is just what we want every visitor to this country to see so they can un­derstand what we're all about." 
The city of Calgary, mean­time, formed a committee to help with housing and transpor­
tation for visitors stranded by the local booking agency World Marketing Services Inc. Offi­cials estimated that about 3,000 tourists bought tickets, rooms and transportation through the agency, whose local represen­tative disappeared last week. 
Police are investigating to 
:!.!!!::=!:.::.::~ 

• FOR NLY 1.49 
Good at all participating Wendy"s. Not valid with 

• 
any other offer Please present coupon when;----­

• 
~::e::;a One coupon per customer visit I -­OFFER EXPIREs 2•28•88 I


I ( ·
• 
·~~· 
•  ~­ 
1  
•  "'  

II l[ al'iliitiiUiiis] 
..• • • • 
lington the 200 free, Kathy Quirk the 100 free and Bonny
SULLY, 


one-meter diving. The 200 med­ley relay team of Moston,HAPPY 21st Wood, Annette Quill and Johnson also won. 
TO OUR 
LEARN
LITTLE 

PROFESSOR CPR, LOVE, MOM, DAD, PLEASE. 
Toke o ltfe~ov,ng

KATE, KERRY AND Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross
COLLEEN 
m 


AI-' Photo 

The Winter Olympics are set to take off In Calgary, pleased with the weather conditions. See story 
at left.
Alberta this weekend. Calgary officials are bat­tllng problems with accomodatlons, but are 
see whether there were any laws broken. 
"Individuals may start ar­riving and have no idea that anything's gone wrong," Olym­pic Housing Bureau manager John Varga said. 
Frank King, chairman of the Calgary organizing committee, said the company went broke. 
Most of the 2,500 Americans coming to Calgary on package tours sold by Olson Travel-world Ltd. of California, offi­cia! U.S. ticket agency, had their local reservations made by World Marketing. Bob Fleming, head of the Calgary Tourist and Convention Bureau, said hotel space and tickets have been reconfirmed for most U.S. groups. 
Officials said there also had been some double booking by 

World Marketing. honest means in order to en-continued from page 16 
r • • • • • • • ••• • • • • • • • ..in the 200 free, Eva Baerlocher 
THIS COUPON GOOD FOR A • in the 1000. fr~e! Jean Kelly in 
/ 

~ ~ 
Best Burgers in theBusiness: • took the 100 and 200 • • • • • • • • • • • • •-breaststroke. Tracy Johnson
won the 50 free, Amy Dar-

Calgary Police Supt. Len Es­ler said his department had in­terviewed Richard Allan, World Marketing's operations director who disappeared from his office last week. 
"We're not at the point where we can make a decision whe­ther there's a civil or criminal problem," Esler said. 
-In a speech prepared for delivery at the IOC's session, Samaranch called drug abuse the lowest form of cheating. 
"Doping is alien to our phi­losophy, to our rules of con­duct," he said. "We shall never tolerate it." 
"We shall unfortunately have to take some precautions since it seems that the desire to win at all costs drives sorne to turn to illegal and totally dis-
the 200 mdlVldual medley,R • KellyQuinninthe5ofreeand
• Jean Browne in the 100 free . 
The 200 medley relay team of Moston, Becky Wood, Kelly
and Barbara Byrne won, as did 
• 
the 200 free team of Barbara Geraghty, Margaret Coffman, 

• 
Sharon VanDolman and Baer­

• 
Iocher.


' Against the Cardinals, Mos­
• 
ton won the 100 backstroke and 

• 
the 100 butterfly, and Wood 


sure that their athletes possess an often illusory advantage over their rivals," he said. 
On the subject of boycotts, Samaranch criticized nations who use the Olympics as a po­litical tool but said: "as with all families, we, too, know how to be lenient when disruptive members return to a better frame of mind. Our attitude and our desire to succeed remain unchanged." 
While no countries are boycotting Calgary, three na­tions -North Korea, Cuba and Seychelles -have announced plans to stay away from the Seoul Summer Games as a form of political protest. 
I • h
rIs 

p~a~g~e~12=-----------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O==bs=e~N~e~r_____________________________________T_u~e~s__day, Februa~9. 1988 

AP Photo 

A new method of rebounding? The University of New Mexico and Texas-EI Paso are among the te~ms battling to earn a spot In the NCAA tournament beginning In March. The Temple Owls took over the top spot In this week's AP Poll. 
Temple jumps to top spot in Associated Press Poll 
Associated Press 
Temple became the fifth team to hold the top spot this season when the Owls earned their first-ever No.1 ranking in The Associated Press college basketball poll on Monday. 
Temple, 18-1, jumped from fifth to first with 23 first-place votes and 1,204 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters after a week that saw 13 teams in the Top Twenty lose at least one game. 
Purdue, 19-2, improved from sixth to second with 16 first­place votes and 1,191 points after beating then-No. 11 Mic­higan 91-87 on Sunday. 
Arizona, which had held the No. 1 position for six weeks, in­cluding the last four in a row, fell to third with 15 first-place votes and 1,162 points, 28 more than Oklahoma, which jumped from seventh. The Sooners, 20­2, won both their Big Eight Con­ference games last week, beating Kansas and Missouri. 
Arizona suffered its second defeat in 23 games when it lost a Pac-10 game at Stanford. It was the first conference loss for the Wildcats. 
Pittsburgh, the only other team to receive first-place votes, finished with two and 927 points after beating then-No. 20 St. John's in its only game of the week. Pitt, 16-2, retained first place in the Big East with a 6-1 record. 
North Carolina, 16-3, jumped two places to sixth with 905 points, five more than Nevada­Las Vegas. UNLV was second last week, but lost to Cal-Santa Barbara for the second time this season. The Runnin' Rebels, 20-2, had a chance to take the No. 1 spot after Arizona's loss, but failed, as did Brigham Young, 17-1. 
BYU, the last major unde­feated team in the nation, suf­fered its first loss of the season Saturday at Alabama­Birmingham and fell from third into a tie for eighth with Duke at 859 points. 
Duke, 16-3, won three games last week, but the Blue Devils were beaten at home by North Carolina State 77-74. 
Kentucky, 16-3, rounded out the Top Ten for the second straight week with 749 points, 48 more than Syracuse. 
Following Syracuse in the Second Ten were Michigan, Iowa, Kansas State, Bradley, North Carolina State, Vander­bilt, Wyoming, Indiana and Vil­lanova. 
Last week's Second Ten were Michigan, Syracuse, Iowa, Georgetown, Vanderbilt, Iowa State, Illinois, Bradley, Florida and St. John's. 


Lynam takes over 
Sixers fire Guokas 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA -The slumping Philadelphia 76ers fired Coach Matt Guokas Mon­day for failing to win with the team they said he designed, and replaced him with assis­tant Jim Lynam. 
Lynam takes over Tuesday night when the sub-.500 team that has lost seven of its last nine and 10 straight on the road opens the second half of the NBA season in Atlanta against the Hawks. 
Owner Harold Katz blamed Guokas for the 76ers' slide from the league's elite. 
When reporters suggested at the news conference that Katz's trades, not Guokas' coaching, were responsible, Katz said: 
"Every single trade we've made was recommended by Matty Guokas. This was Matty Guokas' team. Every guy was recommended to me by Matty Guokas. 
"Moses Malone, Roy Hinson, every single trade was recom­mended by Matty Guokas. And his recommendations almost always were taken. Yes, I made the final decisions. I could have vetoed. So I am ul­timately responsible. I take that responsibility." 
Lynam appeared at the news conference, then left for At­lanta. 

General Manager John Nash said Lynam would coach the rest of the season, and his con­tract would be reviewed after that. Lynam said he viewed himself as an interim coach whose future would be deter­mined by the job he does. 
"You live and die by your record," Lynam said. 
In making the announce­ment, Nash said, "Matty is a guy who contributed a great deal, but this is part of the package that comes with the territory of being a coach. When things are not going the way you want, coaches go. You bring someone in to try and right the ship." 
Guokas, who was told of the change Sunday evening, was not at the news conference. He was not immediately available for comment. 
Guokas had been the Sixers' coach since June 14, 1985, succeeding Billy Cunningham. Three days later, he hired Lynam, who previously had been an assistant in Portland and head coach of the San Diego and Los Angeles Clip­pers. 
The 76ers enter the second half of the season with a 20-23 record in second place, 11 games behind the leading Bos­ton Celtics in the Atlantic Divi­sion. They have made less than 50 percent of their field goals in 11 consecutive games, and the opposition has been shoot­ing against them as a 60 per­cent clip. 
Contributing factors to the team's woes included Andrew Toney's chronic foot problems, and a back injury that has sidelined starting forward Cliff Robinson for the last seven games. 
All-Star forward Charles Barkley missed two recent games with a sprained left ankle, but appeared in the last two games before the All-Star break. 
The 76ers' problems started after Guokas took over. Bobby Jones and Julius Erving retired, and then came the controver­sial trade of Malone, one of the game's dominating centers. 
The 76ers sent the 6-10 lt2 Malone, Terry Catledge and two No.1 draft choices to the Washington Bullets for center Jeff Ruland and Robinson. 
Ruland played five games and suffered a knee injury that forced him to retire. The 76ers have been struggling without a big center ever since. They have tried Tim McCormick, Mark McNamara, Hinson and last year's top draft choice, Chris Welp. Welp suffered a knee injury that has sidelined him for the season. 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch  
Freshman CeCe Cahill, the first Irish player to be  defeated  twice  at  the  Rolex  Invitational  last  
Invited  to  a  national  caliber tournament,  was  weekend. Details appear on page 16  

LAST YEAR 7,S14 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
. ., I \. . 
. . I .',f-­
.,·.. ··r'' . -.. ~ '!) .l 
/ #I_ \ \ ' /// j ,. • -~ . "''-..._,r_' .> _, _.../ 
...._,~·~ ~ -...,_ -•.......__,~-=­
~ OONTDIIVIImliNII tJRRIDIWITHAMYOMIWttODot\ 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 21/z MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST UTILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 


WORK. SHARE. 
LIVE. SAVE LIVES. 
You can have a summer full of adventure & per~onal grov.th while imprO\ ing health for the people of Latin America. 
VOLU:\TEER' 
To be an Amigo~ volunteer. \Hilt:: 
Amigm de Ia~ America~. 561 XStar 
Lane. Hou~ton. Texa~ 77057. 


Tuesday, February 9, 1988 The Observer page 13 
NVA sets deadlines 
Special to The Observer 
Non-varsity athletics has announced the following entry deadlines: 
Tomorrow: 
•Interhall 
wrestling tourn­ament. Interested individuals should contact the NVA of­fice. Halls may sign up as teams. Practice times will be available. 

•Water 
volleyball tourney. Roster minimum is eight per­sons. Games are played at Rolfs Aquatic Center with a double elimination format. 

•Cross 
country ski races, to be held Saturday, Feb. 13. There are three categories for a two-mile race, and two divi­sions for a 200-yard sprint. Equipment rental is avail­able. 

February 17: 

•Cross 
country ski tour, to be held Sunday, Feb. 21. Equipment rentals are avail­able for the three-four hour tour. Registration fee is $2. 


There will also be cross country moonlighters tonight and Tuesday, Feb. 23, from 7-9 p.m. at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Ski rentals avail­able at the Rockne Golf Shop ($1) and free hot chocolate will be provided. 
NVA also has pledge cards available for the Century Club until March 2. Members fill out a pledge card at NVA, pick an aerobic activity, choose a goal to work toward and complete a log book. Free t-shirts awarded for working out. 
Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non­contact sports. Forms and more information are avail­able in the NVA office. 
Students, faculty and staff may rent cross-country ski equipment from NVA, Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial, inside the golf pro shop entrance. Check outs are available from 4:30-5:30 p.m. Thursday­Saturday and from 12-1 p.m. Saturday. Check in takes place 4:30-5:30 p.m. Friday­Sunday and 12-1 p.m. Satur­day. 
Rates are $3 overnight, $5 for two nights, $6 for three nights and $2 for Saturday noon-5:30 p.m. There is a $5 late fee for equipment returned after 5:30p.m. Sun­day. 
The Joyce center weight room is available for student use. The hours are: 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 6:30-10:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and 1-6 p.m. Sunday. 
Navy to protect at Games 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The United States will conduct naval exer­cises off the South Korean coast next fall as part of a campaign to deter North Korea from dis­rupting the Olympic Games in Seoul, administration officials said Monday. 
The officials, who agreed to discuss the matter only if not identified, refused to charac­terize the moves as a military buildup. 
The presence of at least one and perhaps two aircraft car­riers off the Korean peninsula during the games will be "just a little overt warning that we're watching them," one source said. 
The administration believes the recent announcement by the Soviet Union that its ath­letes will participate in the games has reduced the possi­bility that North Korea will take any military action during the contests, the sources said. 
"But we don't mind sending a little reinforcing signal, and the South Koreans would like it, too," one official said. 
Under the current plan, at least one aircraft carrier and possibly two will move into the Sea of Japan along with escort­ing warships for exercises during the games, which are scheduled for late September and early October, the sources said. 

Weeks before the games start, aerial and satellite reconnaissance of the region will be stepped up to keep close track of military movements in communist North Korea, the officials said. 
Because 40,000 American sol­diers are stationed in South Korea, there are no plans to send in additional troops, one official said. There is a chance, however, that a small number of additional Air Force planes might rotate through the country during the time of the games, the source added. 
"Basically, we just don't want the North Koreans to for­get we're there and that we're even more ready than usual," said another official. 
Last month, South Korea and the United States announced they were going ahead with their annual "Team Spirit" ex­ercises despite protests by North Korea. That exercise, starting this month and run­ning to early May, will involve 60,000 U.S. military personnel and 140,000 South Korean troops. 
AU.S. Navy battle group con­sisting of an aircraft carrier and escorting warships will join the exercise along with 
U.S. Air Force planes and units, according to the Pent­agon. 
The North Koreans have been trying to exploit the recent political turmoil in South Korea while at the same time making an abortive bid to host some of the Olympic events. After being rebuffed on the request to be a host, North Korea announced that its ath­letes would boycott the games. 
Pentagon officials have said North Korea would be more likely to attempt to disrupt the games using terrorism than a military assault across the Demilitarized Zone that straddles the border. 
The administration sources said Monday they did not dis­agree with that assessment, but thought U.S. and South Korean military forces had to be on guard to avoid tempting 
any  type  of  North  Korean  
move.  
The  United  States  has  a  

mutual security treaty with South Korea that requires it to render military assistance in the event South Korea comes under attack. 

BC rallies to top St. John's 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Dana Barros scored 22 points, including five during a 12-0 run in the final four minutes, as Boston College rallied to beat St. John's 80-76 Monday night, sending the Redmen to their third straight Big East defeat. 
St. John's, 16-6 and 5-5 in the conference, was beaten by Pit­tsburgh and Syracuse last week. The Redmen last lost three straight in 1983-84, falling to Villanova, DePaul and Prov­idence. 
The Eagles, 13-9 and 4-7, led most of the game but fell be­hind 71-68 on a 3-point goal by Greg Harvey, who scored 20 points to lead St. John's. 
Harvey followed with a layup after his own steal to open St. John's lead to 73-68 with 3:23 left. 
Bob Francis then made a three-point play to pull the Eagles to within two with 3:04 left, starting the run. 

Barros regained the lead on a 3-point goal, his third of the game, with 2: 23 to go and Tyrone Scott, who scored 10 points, made a pair of free throws with 1: 44 left to stretch the lead to three. 
Jamie Benton added two more foul shots and Barros made a layup to open the lead to seven. 
Erlander Lewis' 3-point goal at the buzzer pulled St. John's within four. 
Providence 85 Connecticut 79 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -The 19 points scored by Eric Murdock helped Providence down visit­ing Connecticut Monday night, but it was the constant pressure by the Friars that held off the Huskies. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position:  
News Editor (2)  Ad Design Manager  
Viewpoint Editor  Ad Manager  
Sports Editor  Production Manager  
Accent Editor  Projects Manager  
Saint Mary's Editor  Systems Manager  
Photo Editor  Controller  
Graphic Arts Manager  

Applications should include a two page personal statement and a brief resume. 
The deadline for applications is Tuesday, February 9. 
For further Information contact Chris Murphy at The Observer (239-5303) 
"That's the press," said Providence Coach Gordon Chiesa said after the 85-79 Big East victory. "It causes havoc. We had 36 deflections, which means 36 times in the game we had our hands on the ball." 
The Providence Friars, 10-11 overall and 4-6 in the league, began pulling away from the Huskies midway through the second half and led 71-61 with 
2:05 left in the televised game. 
Connecticut, 11-9 and 3-8, rallied to cut the lead to 5 points on two occasions but was never able to overtake Providence. 
Steve Wright scored 16 points, while Quinton Burton popped in 13 of his 15 points in the second half and Daryl Wright added 13 points in the game for the Friars. 
Cahill 
continued from page 16 
maybe she wasn't accustomed to," said the third-year Notre Dame coach. "It was a learn­ing and growing experience for both of us, and she handled it well. 
"The pressure was tremen­dous, and when you afflict that on yourself, it's even greater," continued Gelfman. "One of the things that will help her develop into a better player and help her develop the skills she'll need to handle the stress of her play is the team." 
By qualifying for the Rolex, Cahill became the first Notre Dame women's tennis player to be selected to a major national tournament. She placed third in November's Rolex Regionals, in which the top two finishers received automatic bids to the national tourney. 
Her 21-0 singles record in the fall season was impressive enough to earn her an at-large bid to the 32-player tournament in Minneapolis. 
"It was an honor to go, and I think that attitude might have hurt a little bit in my competi­tiveness," said Cahill. 



Free Delivery to ND & SMC! 


r 
The Observer Tuesday, February 9, 1988
page 14 
•

Men take second 1n volleyball tourney 
It's that time of the season when the Volleyball Club picks up the pace and finds out just how good · it really is. So far, coach Bill Anderson likes the results. 
The Irish capped off a busy weekend with a second-place finish in a 20-team tourney at Mic­higan Saturday after downing Miami (Ohio) Friday, 15-4, 15-6, 11-15, 15-7. 
At Michigan, the Irish won three of their first four pool matches to advance to the quarterfinals. They defeated Indiana State, Worcester College and Calvin College in straight games and split games with Ohio State. In the quarterfinals, the Irish downed Eastern Illinois 15-6, 15-12. 
Notre Dame then got the chance it had been waiting for -the opportunity to play the host Wol­verines, a team that beat the Irish a week ago in the championship of the Rich O'Leary Classic. The Irish responded with a 15-5, 14-16, 15-12 victory and 
Hockey All-Stars 
Associated Press no matter what the circum­
stances. 

ST. LOUIS -In a game that is "I liked Bob Johnson when he basically for show, Glen Sather was in the league for the same thinks that Mike Keenan might reason. He was a very intense be taking Tuesday night's NHL guy. I miss Bob." All-Star Game a little too While Johnson, the former seriously. Calgary Flames' coach, was 
However, that doesn't stop receiving the Lester Patrick him from admiring the Award for his service to hock­Philadelphia Flyers' coach. ey, Sather held court at an All­
"He's a competitor," said the Star news conference Monday coach of the Edmonton Oilers that included most of the 40 All­who will lead the Campbell Star players. Conference in the NHL's show-Included were Edmonton case game at The Arena. "I goaltender Grant Fuhr and Pit­like guys who don't like to lose, tsburgh center Mario Lemieux, 
Philadelphia goalie Ron Hextall lets this shot go by, but he and the rest of the 1988 NHL All-Star 
a match with Ohio State for the title. The Buckeyes, though, downed the tired Irish squad 15-4, 15-9 to win the tourney. Mike Shimota was named to the all-tourney team for Notre Dame. 

"We played a great tourney," Anderson said. "The Michigan game was the most important since they beat us a week ago. I guess we put all of our energy into that one game because against Ohio State, we just ran out of energy. I'm not disap­pointed about the way things turned out." 
The Irish are alone atop their conference with a perfect 3-0 record, but the schedule only gets toug­her. Toledo visited the JACC Monday, and the team travels to Hope College tonight. After a day of rest, the Irish travel to eighth-ranked Ball State before going to Calvin Friday. The next home date is Feb. 15 against Grand Valley State. 
"We should win the conference," Anderson said matter-of-factly. "We're playing well this early in the season. The young kids are starting to come around." 
Club President Keola Chun, though, says there is still room for improvement. 
"Against Michigan, we played great with no men­tal breakdowns," Chun said. "But there's still a lot of work to be done. At key times, even in the Mic­higan game, our passing would break down and then everybody would start yelling at each other." 
taking the game seriously 
the top vote-getters for their scoring potential with threats respective conferences. such as Wayne Gretzky, Denis 
Fuhr, the overall leader in Savard, Steve Yzerman, Mark the balloting, will be starting Messier and rookie sensation in goal for the Campbell Con­Joe Nieuwendyk, among ference, while Lemieux will be others. in the starting lineup for the "I can defense Mario Wales. Lemieux any time I want," Sat­
Sather was not entirely her said, "but the idea of an enchanted with Keenan's picks All-Star Game is to let the tal­that filled out the Wales Con­ents show their abilities. It ference following the fans' should be more of a wide-open vote. game. 
The Edmonton coach "I'm not necessarily here to presumed that Keenan specifi­win, but Mike Keenan is. I just cally chose a defensive lineup hope we have a good game, one to suffocate his team's high­the fans enjoy." 
In defense of his choices for the team, Keenan said he was looking for "leadership qualities" as much as anything in his players. 
"I picked three players from the Montreal Canadiens (Larry Robinson, Mats Naslund and Patrick Roy) because they were in first place at the time," he said. "For the same reason, I selected three from my own team (Mark Howe, Kjell Samuelsson, and former Notre Dame star Dave Poulin). We were leading the division at the time." 
The Flyers also placed goaltender Ron Hextall, fan fa­vorite in the Wales voting, in the starting lineup. 
Meanwhile, many of the players agreed with Sather's sentiments regarding the pur­pose of an All-Star Game. 
"We're not here to win," he said. "This is a showcase for the league. I just hope it's a good game -a good show for the . people and for St. Louis." 
Robinson, though, does think the Campbell Conference has an edge over his Wales team in scoring talent. 
"They have a lot of talent down the middle," he said. "We lack in speed. But maybe we can make that up in experi­ence. If we want to make the game close, we'll have to rely on our defense." 
While Keenan said he hadn't come to any decisions about his line combinations, Sather had 
them  all written out  for  the  
press.  
Once  the  fan-selected  

starters taken their opening shifts, both coaches will go with their own combinations. 
"I'll try to keep players to­gether from the same team," said Sather, who will use Gretzky on a powerhouse line with teammates Mark Messier and Jari Kurri. 

GROW WITH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your 
potential,  look  into  the  many  
opportunities  available  in  NAVY  
MEDICINE.  



• 
Medical Scholarships 

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses



Attention Varsity Athletes 
The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers 
a professional career plus the unique 
benefits and rewarding lifestyle as a 
Buy your tickets from 
Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits



your Captains for the 
• Navy Officer fringe benefits 


A Navy Medical Programs representative will be on campus February 17 & 18 in the Pre-Professional Office 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information.
Feb. 13 J.A.C.C. Concourse 
An information booth will be outside the Ubrary
9om-2 am 

1-800-527-8836 $10 per couple 
NAVY~OFFICER.

(or further info call x2811 
LEADTilE 


Tuesday, February 9, 1988 The Observer page 15 
-. 

The Daily Crossword
Campus 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
!lWt.TEKY... t./Kt ffiii?T'5. 


fKJW '8()f/T Cf/U..IN& CIINPtmn 50trl6 G<JtffltNe~ 
C()(lt_p YOIJ Gr'~ Of/f( 
Pt/1151/11?15M ... /..!Ke /3/fJe/11'5. 

NEW 'IOf(K "HYM!fTlJfi/N" f/S 10 WHfiT 50/ifOf 
f(/IC!f/1.-!NW!.-T5... t!KC 
IWP COZYIN& IJP 10 !.-OIJ/5 OH, 1Hflt~ 
JIMMY 7H£ &R£tK'5. 


.. 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
\\OW oot5 ThiS ~~~-Rm 1\\E G\JN ~\1\()M~Jic.Al.l'i R8IDS 5::1 S~'i 1'1--\ T\1\NKI~G AB:m A G\Jt\ oow 'tl"t>-1 \() ~s~ THE ~It-\ WA.'-J£5 'iO\l EMIT, ~IG Slt..B Cf GRIUfD 1\JNA. !'-()~, .. Rl~~ SO~'t\\-\1~ IN\0" ANCl 1\lRNS 11-\E OBJ'CCT \1'{\0 
WHt>-JE\'8<.. ~0\l 'NA.NT. 
\ ~ 
.z-q 

Dinosaur nerds 

MOVIES THIS WEEK SPONSORED BY SUB 

.,.ltr~·E l)fAU.llf11L \\QM[N 0:---!E LLX"KY t)t'VIL
Wednesday & Thursday Friday & 
WTHE 
8 & 10 pm IJ(HfS I Saturday 
•

f B\SlWifl\ i "'""""@ I
'""'' .. ~·" ·---··' ...,. ....... ~~ ! 
~ 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 admission 


Tuesday 
12 p.m.: Kellogg Seminar Institute, "Stronismo, Post-stronismo, and the Prospects for Democracy in Paraguay," by Diego Abente, 131 Decio. 12:10-1 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
12:15 p.m.: SMC Center for Spirituality's Signals of Grace Lecture, Speaker: Most Reverend william McManus, Chicago, on Giving, Stapleton Lounge. 4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Large Spin Effects in Hard Proton-Proton Scat­tering," by Professor Alan Krisch, University of Michigan, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 4:30-5:20 p.m.: Air Force ROTC Lecture, Major Peter Geurtz, U.S.A.F. will speak on U.S. transportation newly-formed command, Library Auditorium. 
6:45 p.m.: SMC Sexuality Education Council Lecture, "Sex•1ality: Does the Church Have all the Answers?" by Doris Donnelly, Co-Director, Center for Spirituality, Stapleton Lounge. 7 p.m.: Presentation, Hallmark Cards, Arts and Letters Business Society, 124 Hayes Healy. 7 p.m.: Wrestling, ND vs. Michigan, Auxiliary Gym. 7:30p.m.: Basketball, NDM vs. Fordham, JACC. 
7:30 p.m.: Faculty Conversations on Connections: An Historical View of the Development of Science and Technology, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, sponsored by Sigma Xi, the Program in Science, Technology and Values, and Saint Mary's College. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Philadelphia Pepperpot Soup Boneless Rib Sandwich Cheese Lasagna Meatloaf Parmesan Chicken  Breaded Pork Cutlet Fish Doree Chicken Chimichangas Deli Bar  

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
. I .., I\ 
•· f , ' ~ I . . ) ~· 
I ~ \~ ·1~ "-~~~~...,.-··>
// 1i·~· 
L ' -'--' j ~ '• ')
-·~-:J ~' . .,_ --~ 
-OOH TPfUVi OltuMK, 011 IIIDI WITH Alll"fOfU WHO DOt\ 
Comics 
ACROSS 1 Spat 7 Crescent-

shaped 13 Green mineral 14 Ear shell 16 Screen behind 
an altar 17 Carouse 18 Doze 19 Of summer 21 Prof. org. 22 From 24 Mr. Hentoff 25 Move quickly 26 Pentateuch 28 Music maker 
for short 29 Table spread 30 Appeal 32 Minds 34 Farm denizen 35 Philippine 
peak 36 Aptly named 
writer 39 Engrossed 44 Furnished © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 02/09/8845 Gardner of 

All Rights Reserved films 46 Carried 8 War vessel 47 Wavy In 9 Fastener heraldry 10 Jolson's 48 Vane letters namesakes 49 Loose 11 One hundred garment percent 50 Scott Joplin 12 Hostile ones specialty 13 Like art 51 Singing voice nouveau 55 Impair 15 Sister of myth 56 Picture 20 Black 58 Trace 23 Extreme 60 Like a fiend 25 Hostile one 61 Privileged one 27 Attention 62 Sense 28 Indian 63 Closed 31 Fearful reverence DOWN 32 Wife of 1 Comic Jackie Saturn 2 Halley work 33 Simpleton 3 Common 35 Arab garment 41 Hackneyed 48 -boom contraction 36 Titled anew remark 51 -die 4 Ebb or flood 37 Term In chess 42 In gear 52 Rant ­5 Son of Seth 38 Impulse 43 More 53 Island goose 6 Repose goddess precious 54 Bones 7 Certain 39 Declare 44 Sensational 57 Caught Insects 40 Go to ruin 45 Mien 59 Sesame 

· · ·. 
~-~~---­
~ 
t 
f '-
Sports 
Tuesday, February 9, 1988 
•

Irish sw1mmers beat St. Louis U. and ORU Also lose to Ball State in tough weekend action 
By GREG GUFFEY ach retired this year after a Sports Writer serious illness, and the new co­ach started midway through The men's swimming team the season. They're a smaller ran into a roadblock in its con­team than us, and we have been tinuing quest for excellence able to use depth to our advan­Saturday and saw its seven­tage. We expect the Irish to game dual-meet winning bounce back with resilience." streak vanish. The Irish lost to The men fell behind early Ball State, 126-91. against Ball State and could 
The Irish defeated St. Louis, never recover. The Cardinals 98-13, and Oral Roberts, 67-44, took the top two spots in the Friday before making the 300-first event, the 400 medley mile trip to Muncie to swim relay, and led 13-2. against the Cardinals the next "We knew what to expect, afternoon. but we just couldn't handle it," 
"One of the most intersting Welsh said of the Cardinals. things to come out of the "It's always a big disadvan­weekend was that travel and tage to be behind 13-2 after the rest had no effect on the out­first event. That was one come," Irish head coach Tim matchup we could have won. Welsh said. "It (the loss) put a We were beaten and beaten by big hole in our cockiness, but a good team." we're still confident. I hope Taking firsts in the meet for we're humbled. When you are the Irish were John Koselka in confident and humble, greater the 50 freestyle, Jim Byrne in performances are possible. the 400 individual medley and 

The Observer/David Fisch "The fact that we won seven Paul Godfrey in the 500 frees­The Notre Dame men's amd women's swimming the weekend, winning two and losing one. Gre; in a row had become a liability. tyle. and diving teams participated In three meets over Gufffey details the action at right. We had begun to swim not to The Irish dominated the 
lose. Swimming to win is a lot three-way meet at St. Louis. more fun." Adam Hirschfield paced Notre The women's team followed Dame with firsts in the l-and
Wrestlers edge Huskers 21-18 
suit with the men, downing 3-meter diving events, qualify­By MICHAEL GERARD Junior Chris Geneser collected "George and Layton picked up Oral Roberts 94-16 and St. Louis ing for the NCAA Champion­Sports Writer the team's only pin of the meet the slack and really per­94-17 before falling to the Car­ships in the 1-meter event. 
at 177 pounds. formed." dinals, 140-128. The Ball State Koselka won the 50 and 100 
Notre Dame is walking tall Debatably the most crucial George Logsdon has been loss was another in a continu­freestyle, Bill Jackoboice the this week after defeating the match of the meet, however, working himself back into the ing series of meets where the 100 butterfly, Brian Rini the highly-ranked Cornhuskers of was won by Irish freshman groove after a temporary stint Ir-ish have fallen just short of 1000 freestyle and Godfrey the Nebraska last Saturday in Lin­Todd Layton. in the army. McCann feels a victory. Welsh, though, has 200 free. The team of Jack-­coln. Logsdon has been a healthy not lost hope for the women. oboice, Tom Penn, Jeff Grace 
Expecting a tight dual meet, "I think the big match for us shot in the arm for his team. "We're swimmming aggres­and Rogelio Miro won the 400 the Notre Dame wrestling was Layton. Todd did what he Logsdon proved his match to sively, swimming to win and free relay.team returned with a key team had to do to beat the guy," com­be the final word for the Irish going faster," Welsh said. "We The women jumped out early victory that will highlight the mented senior co-captain Jerry against the 'Huskers. are getting faster as we go. against Oral Roberts and St. '88 dual meet record. Durso, who struggled to a 3-3 The only Irish losses were We're turning into a gutsy, Louis and never looked back en 
"The real key thing that we tie at 134 pounds. Layton dealt to Dave Smith, Mark competitive team." route to the two victories. The started out with was Andy," defeated a wrestler ranked Gerardi, and Todd Tomazic, Welsh will not have time to Irish only failed to win first said Notre Dame coach Fran ninth in the nation. "One fresh­while heavyweight Prinzavalli make many adjustments with place in two events. McCann. man had to win," according to suffered a forfeit by injury. Co­the men's team as Bradley in­Tracie O'Connell and Andrea 
McCann. ach McCann said the referee vades Rolf's Aquatics Center Bonny led the rout with two 
At 118 pounds, Andy Raden­Also spotlighting the dual made some questionable calls tonight for a dual meet. The wo­firsts each. Bonny won both baugh defeated "a pretty good meet was George Logsdon's in Gerardi's match and added men are idle until Friday when diving events, while O'Connell sized" wrestler, said McCann. victory at 190 pounds. Coach that he nearly won the contest. Illinois-Chicago comes to took the 500 free and the 100 "Andy's win set the tone for the McCann commented that the The poor calls came in an im­Rolf's. breaststroke. Other Irish win­meet.'' match iced the sin for the portant match that McCann "It (Bradley) is a team that ners included Christy Moston 
At 142 pounds, senior Ron Irish." called "one of the key middle­has faced some hardship this Wisniewski won by a decision. Senior Jerry Russo concluded weights." year," Welsh said. "Their co-see IRISH, page 11 
Cahill falters twice in Rolex Tournament 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 6-3 straight-set decision in a three-hour marathon. 
Sports Writer 
"The people I played beat 

CeCe Cahill met a lot of old me, but they weren't really bet­friends at last weekend's Na­ter than me," said Cahill. "It tional Rolex Indoor Champion­was frustrating." ships, but it wasn't the most Trinity University's Jane 
pleasant of reunions. Holdren, ranked 30th in the na­
Cahill, the top seeded player tion in the Volvo pre-season on the Notre Dame women's rankings, beat Cahill 6-2, 6-0 in tennis team, lost her first two her second match. matches in a tournament that "I knew her from Juniors, featured several players she and she's a pretty good 
had seen in previous competi-player," said Cahill. "She was tions. · pretty much better than me." 
"I knew a lot of people from Irish coach Michele Gelfman Junior Nationals that I hadn't attributed Cahill's lack of suc­seen in a long time," said the cess at the Rolex to inexperi­freshman from Hinsdale, Ill. "I ence, and considered the tourn­used to practice with a lot of ament a major learning them before they went to col­experience for her prize lege, and it was great seeing recruit . 
.. 
them again." "Even though there were a 
In Cahill's first match, she lot of people she's played in faced Elizabeth Alexander Juniors, they were a few years from the University of Georgia. older than her, and they had a Cahill had a first-set lead, but different style of play that 

Alexander came back to take The Notre Dame wrestling team narrowly defeated weekend, notching a big win In a dual meet. Mike the set 7-5. Alexander won a 7-5, see CAHILL, page 13 the Nebraska Cornhuskers 21-18 over the Gerard highlights the Irish victory at left. 




