
IACCENT: New album sings success IVIEWPOINT: A Thanksgiving message 


VOL. XXII, NO. 58 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Student reportsexamined by the Board of Trustees 
By MICHELLE DALL Here, there aren't many activ­..:omplex on the University Senior Staff Reporter ities that take place on a regu­property surrounding campus. lar basis." This complex would include Student government repre­To combat such social prob­several social alternatives, sentatives presented a series of lems, the committee recom­such as restaurants, shops, reports concerning campus life mended "sponsoring more ac­movie theaters and night clubs. to the Notre Dame Board of tivities conducive to healthy The Board's response to the Trustees at a meeting last interaction among students," coresidentiality report was Thursday. such as mixers, campus-wide "especially positive," accor­The reports addressed four competitions, theme weeks, ding to Student Body Vice Pres­issues, including coresiden­concerts and date nights. ident Mike Paese. Paese said, tiality, social life, transporta­The committee also planned "This was the first time tion and parking. to promote faculty-student in­coresidentiality was a discus­
According to a survey con­teraction by expanding support sable option, and we were able ducted by the social life com­for the College Fellow Pro­to talk about the issue as a com­mittee, only 54 percent of the gram and "encouraging atten­munity." freshmen, 21 percent of the sop­dance at intellectual and cul­Student Body President Tom homores and 29 percent of the tural events as part of course Doyle agreed, "The Trustees juniors surveyed find the social requirements." were very receptive to the life at Notre Dame "ade­Budget allocations were a coresidentiality report. .. .I quate." primary area of concern as think the committee really took 
Social committee member well. The committee suggested a responsible approach to the Kerry Sieger said she blames the "multi-sponsorship of issue." the lack of student involvement campus activites," which Trustee member and Notre at campus activities on three would encourage several Dame Associate history profes­factors, including publicity, campus organizations to "pool sor Fr. Thomas Blantz said he consistency and "rut behav­their financial resources." felt the report "raised several ior." The committee also proposed important points," although 
"Basically, there's not converting the LaFortune Stu­many issues remain un­enough emphasis on publicity, dent Center into a 24-hour cen­resolved. and there's not enough consis­ter and making Theodore's a According to Blantz, one tency in the activities that are "coffeehouse," which would be major issue that must be con­planned," Sieger said. "At open to students both day and sidered is the effect coresiden­some schools they set aside night during the week and on tiality would have on the pres­every Wednesday night for a weekends. ent stay-hall system. While comedy show or something, As a long-run objective, the Blantz said coresidentiality and students can plan that committee broached the idea of event into their schedules. establishing a commercial see BOARD, page 3 
3 youths are apprehended for car thefts on campus 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Items stolen included car In another unrelated inci­Staff Reporter stereos and other dashboard dent, two adult males were components, as well as some stopped by Notre Dame Secur­
Notre Dame Security, with .auto parts, according to ity on Old Juniper Road near help from the South Bend police Johnson. Edison at approximately 6 a.m. department, has apprehended Security has recovered some Saturday, Nov. 12, on suspicion three youths, and implicated a of the property stolen from stu­of bicycle theft. fourth in connection with a dents' vehicles, and is in the The suspects allegedly took recent wave of car break-ins on process of identifying the a ten-speed bike, a calculator, campus. owners. two wall signs, and a name 
According to Phil Johnson, Johnson said, "Not all of the plate from O'Shaughnessy assistant director of Security, recovered property has been Hall. a total of 26 break-ins occurred, identified because many of the Later the same morning, se­eight on the weekend of Oct. 22 owners did not keep records of curity officers recovered an­and 23, and another 18 on the serial numbers." It also ap­other bike near the sight where weekend of October 29 and 30. pears that some of the items the men were initially con­The youths targeted cars in D-2 recovered "may have been fronted. and other campus lots, Johnson stolen from other people" in the The case will go to the pros­said. South Bend area, said Johnson. ecutor. 
European nations start scaling back military operations in Persian Gulf 
Associated P!ess three Belgian warships brought stability to the gulf. deployed to the gulf a year ago, The European actions could 
MANAMA, Bahrain--sailed for home. The last five add pressure on President­Gambling that peace will Italian warships and one from elect George Bush to step up prevail despite a deadlock in the Netherlands are preparing an American pullout, accor­Iraq-Iran peace talks, the to leave by Dec. 31. ding to U.S. diplomats and mil­
The Observer I Paul Compton United States' European allies Officials said those moves, itary officials, speaking on con­
Fiesta Bowl bound 
are stepping up the postwar like an earlier cutback in dition of anonymity. 


After defeating Penn State Saturday, Kurt Zackrison, center, and Bryan dismantling of their military France's regional fleet from 11 The United States has Flannery face the student section of the stadium to celebrate the victory. forces in the Persian Gulf. to seven ships, came because withdrawn one ship and scaled The undefeated Fightin' Irish now focus on the pending game against In recent days the mine the iraq-Iran cease-fire, three back convoys and other opera­
undefeated USC. ~weeper Crocus, the last of months old Sunday, had tions. 
page2 The Observer Monday, November 21, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
Chauvinism is no longer
Christina Onassis died Saturday of an apparent heart attack. Several dozens of friends attended a private Greek 
band, Thierry Roussel. --Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
vaccination. -The Observer 
welcome. -The Observer 
Mai&Female 
Ministry. -The Observer 
Monday Night Football 
attend. -The Observer 
Amnesty 
at 283-1562. -The Observer 
Dame Chorale. -The Observer 
Observer 
ments will be published. -The Observer 
Observer 
ture Circuit 
Orthodox Mass for her Sunday in Buenos Aires. There was no word on whether results of an autopsy performed on ld daughter of Greek shipping tycoon Aristotle the 37-year-oOnassis would be released. In Piraeus, Greece, a spokes­man for the family's Springfield Shipping company said Miss Onassis will be buried on her family's island, Skor­pios, off northwest Greece by the end of the week. The spokesman said the Onassis fortune had been left to the daughter born in 1985 to Miss Onassis and her fourth hus­Get a measles vaccination if you've never had one and you plan on attending the USC football game, accor­ding to University Health Services. Measles vaccination shots will be given at the University Health Center today, Tuesday and Wednesday. A vaccination is unnecessary if you have: already received a measles vaccination, had a documented case of measles or you are allergic to eggs. If you are unsure of your vaccination status, the vaccina­tion will not harm you. If you received a flu shot during ct. 31, wait one month before taking a measles the week of OAdult Children of Alcoholics will meet today at 7 p.m. upstairs in the Center for Social Concerns. All are Models Wanted for SMC Fashion Show. There will be an important information meeting Monday, Nov. 28, at 8 p.m. in the Regina North basement. Call Libby at 284-4039 for more information. -The Observer A Prayer Service for those who grieve a loss of a loved one through death, illness, separation, or divorce will be held today in Holy Cross Chapel, Saint Mary's College, at 6 p.m. It is sponsered by Saint Mary's Campus will be shown tonight at Theodore's at 9 p.m. The Student Alumni Relations Group invites students from the San Francisco Bay and Wash­ington DC area to tonight's game between the 49'ers and Redskins. Come and enjoy the game with friends from your region. Refreshments will be provided. -The Observer Ballroom Dance Club will hold officer elections today at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. All members are asked to International's Christmas Card design contest ends today. The best 3 designs will receive $10 and an Amnesty International T-shirt. For more information, stop by the Center for Social Concerns or call John Farley A Special Liturgy will be held at 7 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church tonight for the Feast of the Presention of Mary. Liturgical music will be provided by the Notre Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­Of Interests and otner public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ a problem at NO "Homecoming '66: Who, What, When," read the page 4 headline of the first Observer ever Mark ·~ published. That was in 1966, before most of the women presently attending Notre Dame and Mclaughlin Saint Mary's were born. Underneath the head is a picture of Barbara News Editor Cunneen, with a graphic explaining that she is "133 pounds, 5 foot 8, brown eyes, brown haired queen." She was nominated by her steady, Bill Follete. Or maybe it was Foilette--the article seems to be unsure on the name. Said Barbara, "I liked him from the start ... I didn't believe it. Neither did my friends because we had al­ways heard that Notre Dame boys had a line a mile long." Barbara felt that she would receive a "a bet­ter education and very important finishing" at Saint-Mary's-of-the-Woods in Terre Haute. "I almost died when I found out I had won. It's a dream come true." Another interesting tidbit from 1966 was a column in this paper called "Observed. ". Ap­parently a random girl (they were never called women) from Saint Mary's was chosen every week to be written about and photographed for the newspaper. "Peggy, a junior at S.M.C., is a girl out to have fun," read the first column. " 'If I had my way there would be poetry all 500 Saint Mary's students for the game over the place.' She's also wild about sports "complete with dinner and party after the game cars ('Corvettes and X.K.E.'s are gorgeous') somewhere." But as the game took on cham­and 'nice, big, hairy masculine hunks."' This pionship proportions, Notre Dame men decided was accompanied by a picture showing a that "The State game is going to be war ... healthy amount (for 1966) of leg and a pretty and nobody takes women to war." So Notre smile. Dame asked for the tickets back. "Justice was "Not all the girls are at SMC to get hus­to prevail," said the article. But not to fear, bands," Peggy added. "Polk is arranging for girls from Kalamazoo The advertisements of 1966 aren't exactly to attend in lieu of SMC." charitable to women. We have the "make her The point of all this? Well, I hear time and fondest dreams come true" diamond ring ad, time again on campus all about how downtrod­the "Dodge fever" girl, and scantily-clad den women on campus are and how the world buxom blondes cheering behind a "cool" man is full of male chauvinist pigs. This may be wearing a polyester shirt. Don't forget the pic­true, it may not, although I must admit I don't ture of members of the Notre Dame football think women are discriminated against any team gathered around Jill St. John, with lots of more than any other group. sexual innuendo in the photo caption. But look around you and see the male Then we have the controversy over the Saint secretaries and the female Air Force cadets Mary's allotment of tickets to the Michigan and tell me this world hasn't come a long way. State game. Yes, that Michigan State game, The fact that women can argue about maternity with the tie and the national championship. leave and child care shows that women don't Seems that originally Notre Dame Social Com­have to argue about getting the jobs in the first missioner Jim Polk had planned to take along place. Ibe_Qbs.-e~~0E--­-­-----.L~Y~'-' ---­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it."'DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN Kl1 A FRIENDSHIR  
1. YOU SHOULD have a vaccination if A. You have never had a measles vaccination and B. You are planning on attending the USC football game **Shots will be given at University Health Services Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday 2. YOU NEED NOT receive a vaccination if: A. You have been vaccinated with measles vaccine after 15 months of age B. You have had a documented case of measles C. You are allergic to eggs 3. If you are unsure of your vaccination status~ it will not harm you to receive a vaccination 4. If you received a flu shot during the week of October 31st, you should wait one month before taking a measles vaccination.  
Viewpoint Layout.. .. .. . Annette Rowland ....... Lisa Tugman Accent Editor....... ... Robyn Simmons .............. Ann Buff Accent Designer .. .. .. .. .. .. Robert Sedlack .. ..... Jim Mercurio Typists... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Diana Bradley .. ....... Andy Schlidt .......................... __ .......Jennifer Richards .. ....... Michelle Dall ............................................. Will Zamer .. ......... Sara Marley ND Day Editors.. ............ Diana Bradley .. .. Rachael Jarosh ...................................Jennifer Richards Theresa Kelly SMC Day Editor ..................... Liz Lobb ...... Mike Truppa Photographer ... ............... Paul Compton ne ~a (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday aoept durin& exam and vacation periods. ne Olleena is published by IM students of the University of Notre o.me and Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for So40 per year (S2J per semester) by writina ne Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre ne o..n. is a member or ne A.lodaiM rn.. All reproduction riahts arc  

ments will be published. -The Observer 
Design Editor .. 
Design Assistant . . 
Typesetters... 
.. .. . . .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 
News Editors.. 
.. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 
Copy Editor .. Sports Copy Editor....... ... Viewpoint Copy Editor 
o.me, Indiana 46556. 
..--!. 

M_o~n_d_a~y,~N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r2_1~·-'~9~8_8-_-_-~·~~------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r ·_-_··_·_·----------------------------------------------------~Pa~gL_e_-_3----~ 
Troops raid Palestinian settlements in West Bank, kill1 

An unidentified student samples some of the ethnic story at right. their neighbors," Lee said. dishes available during the Senior Block Party. See Co-organizer Kathleen 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM--Troops raided Palestinian settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip on Sunday, fatally shoot­ing a 22-year-old man and wounding six Arab youths in clashes, Arab hospital officials said. 
Five Palestinians suffered beating injuries during an army raid in the West Bank vil­lage of Madama, Arab doctors said. The injured included a 9­year-old boy with head wounds, they said, adding that the cause of the injuries was not known. 
sarial relations" between the sexes and "broaden
Board 
friendships," he said, "I'm not
continued from page 1 
sure we're ready to move in 
may help promote "adver-that direction now.... but we should certainly consider it for the future." 
In response to a student sur­vey conducted by the cor~>sidentiality committee, 67 percent of tlw students who participated were in favor of
i coresidential housing, and 65 percent said they would choose to live in a coresidential dorm if that option were open to
SJI N. Miclrifcrn St:. 
them. The committee suggested
Phone lJJ-4957 
that the conversion from 
MEATBALL MONDAY
I I 
I 50 cents off I I 14 or 18 inch meatball sub I 
I I 
I I 
I I
-DON'T FORGET lOTH INNING SPECIAL 
I I
EVERYDAY AFTER lOPM 7 INCH SUB,
I I
CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4.25
I I 
I
I 271-0SUB
I -1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE I 
\ I 
~---------------' 
Annual Senior Block Party held 
By JEFF SWANSON News Staff 
The eighth annual Senior Class Block Party was held in the Joyce ACC on Friday, giving Notre Dame students and members of the South Bend community an opportunity to enjoy a variety of perfor­mances and different ethnic foods. 
Chris Lee, co-organizer of the event, called the party "an at­tempt to bring the Notre Dame and South Bend communities together in an effort to enhance relations ... We've gotten a lot of positive feedback, e.specially from the northeast neighbor­hood," Lee said. 
"Sometimes student lifes­tyles aren't compatible with 
The army command con­firmed that there was "ac­tivity" in Madama but said it had no reports of injuries. 
Three Israelis suffered injur­ies when buses they were riding in were pelted with rocks in the West Bank. 
In Lebanon, an Israeli soldier was killed and four others in­jured when their armored per­sonnel carrier overturned Sun­day in southern Lebanon, the army said. "It was a road ac­cident," said an army spokes­man, who declined to elabo­rate. 
Israel radio said the accident occurred north of the Lebanese city of Naqoura, two miles north of the Israeli border in Israel's self-declared buffer zone. The zone is patrolled by about 1,000 Israeli troops and the 2,000-member South Lebanon Army. 
Meanwhile, underground PLO leaders distributed leaflets praising the declara­tion of an independent Pales­tinian state last week by the Palestine National Council, the PLO's parliament-in-exile. 
The leaflet said the Palestine Liberation Organization had seized a historic opportunity to 
single-sex dorms to coresiden­who chaired the transportation 
tial housing begin with four or committee, considers the pres­six dormitories. Among those ent transportation service considered for conversion are "adequate," but thinks stu­Siegfried, Knott, Pasquerilla dents should have additional East, Pasquerilla West, Flan­access to South Bend. 
ner, Grace, Stanford and "South Bend has several so­Keenan. These dorms are con­cial and cultural opportunities duc.ive to conversion because to offer," said Bishop. "These of their "L shaped sturucture," opportunities enhance the total according to the report. college experience, but right 
The committee suggested now, we're not offering very separating the dorms by sec­good means of transportation tion, with each wing sharing a to access these opportunities." common study lounge and The committee proposed im­recreation area. plementing a "Special Events 
The current transportation Bus Service," which would in­situation at Notre Dame was clude a movie shuttle, a restau­also discussed. Steve Bishop, rant shuttle and a University
1----------------------------­
Bask in the sun while cheering the Irish to *1 at The Best western Thunderbird Inn in Scottsdale, AZ --­Located close to the Fiesta Bowl Stadium 
All 2-room suites with wet bar, refrigerator, 2 
T.V.'s, 2 phones, and available microwave 
oven. heated pool and spa. 
CALL 1-800-334-19n 
-------~----~----------------1 
boost the 11-month-old uprising against Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The pro-PLO leaders also urged Moslem fundamentalist extremists to stop criticizing the declaration publicly. 
"Whether you like it or not, that will serve the enemy," said the leaflet, signed by the Unified National Leadership of the Uprising. 
The pro-PLO leaders called for "escalating the struggle" against Israel in the next two weeks and announced three one-day strikes. 
Maglicic said that the party "opened communication lines between Notre Dame students and South Bend residents and allowed South Bend residents to see what the Notre Dame community is about." 
The party featured shows every half-hour including Hawiian and Mexican dancers, performances by the Shenanigans and by bag-pipe players. Music between the shows was supplied by Notre Dame's WVFI. 
"The party came off really well and I was glad so many people came," Maglicic said. Lee and Maglicic also ex­pressed their gratitude for the volunteers who gave much time and effort to help make it all happen. 
Egypt on Sunday became the latest nation to recognize the Palestinian state. A statement said it hoped the proclamation would "serve the cause of 
peace  and  stability  in  the  
region."  
At  least  31  other  nations,  

mainly Moslem, have recog­nized the state. 
In Jordan, Prime Minister Zaid Rifai said the PLO has met conditions for taking part in the Middle East peace process and accused Israel of blocking a settlement. 
Park Mall shuttle to ac­complish this goal. 
The committee also recom­mended the University finance the Weekend Wheels Program, which is currently funded by the Hall Presidents' Council. 
Bishop said he was very happy with the Trustees' rep­sonse to the report, and com­mented, "I think it (the report) really opened a lot of eyes. This was a relatively new issue, and I think the Board was really interested--especially with all the emphasis that's recently been placed on street crime and drunk driving." 
Karen Flaherty, chairman of the parking committee, said the parking issue was ad­dressed primarily because, "there seemed to be no organi­zation at all in regard to the current parking situation." 
The committee proposed several immediate and long­term measures which would enhance the present parking system, such as improving the condition of the lots, increasing the number of available parking spaces and adding se­curity measures to deter crime in the lots. 
According to Flaherty, stu­dent government will work in conjunction with Associate Vice President of Residence Life John Goldrick, a member of the Committee on Parking, to implement some of the sug­gested proposals. 
According to Blantz, "The meeting between the students and the Trustees was very worthwhile, because it ed­ucated the Board in regard to students' concerns." 
Doyle commented, "The people who worked on the reports really did a fantastic job ; they definitely turned out a quality report." 
page 4 The Observer Monday, November 21 , 1988 

So You Can Own AMacintosh®! 
Before you go home this Thanksgiving, head over to your campus resale center for aStudent Loan:lb-Own application. Break the news to your parents about the student deal of a lifetime! It's an opportunity for you to get an Apple Macintosh -the computer you really want for only $30.00 a month. 
With your parents' signature, you can o\\11 a Macintosh computer. Apple's Student Loan-To-Own Program makes buying a Macintosh as easy as using one. 
Simply pick up a loan application at the address listed below, or Call X00-831-LOAN to receive one in the mail. 
Your parents only need to fill out the 
application, sign it and send it. If they 
qualify, they'll receive acheck in just 
a few weeks for you to purchase 
your Macintosh. 
The big break is you don't have to prove 
financial hardship or offer collateral. 
Best of all, the loan payments can be 
spread over as many as 10 years. 
Isn't this just the break you've been 
looking for? 
0 l'lHX Appl<· Computer, Inc Appl<•, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are reRisll'red trad<•marks of Appi!' Computer, Inc. 
. . .... :.. :·.::··.:·(_/.(\-?.~··.<\·..~..=:/:>._: ::_": ... :::::·..-:·.:·:~:-·;:::.:::_:_:: .<·..··:~:>::~:· (~_:·~··;: :"·:·. 

··· ·L~.·... ·: 
0 o o o o o I o o 
•• 0 • " •• 
. . . . 
. ' . . 
... s~+ee+s±wisiw· 
Pi~ . · 
·.-~··. 
· Macintosh·SE · 
Introducing Apple's Student Loan-To-Own Program 
CONTACT: 
Office of University Computing Computer Center I Math Building 8 am-5 pm 
Viewpoint
Monday, November 21, 1988 
a e 5 
University must challenge racism 
In light of the recent student­performed "blackface" at the Sorin Hall Talent Show (Sorin Hall-­residence of University President Ed­ward A. Malloy), many students once again engage in their yearly examina­tion of race relations at this University. Once again, these students who dare look at what's really happening in terms of racism (blatant or subtle) must come to the same conclusion: rac­ism and racial ignorance is still alive and well at the nation's premier Cath­olic university. 
Lionel Coleman 
guest column 
This very sad tradition at Notre Dame continues unhindered, and the University has once again failed to take any effective means to stop racism, ra­cial ignorance, and other social injus­tices (namely continued investment in companies dealing in any way with South Africa and sexism). The fact that such gross racism and racial ignorance exists leads many to believe that the lack of decisive action concerning these matters signifies a leadership problem. 
With these thoughts in mind, many students call the University's Board of Trustees, the University president, and the rest of the University administra­tion and faculty to demonstrate ed­ucated, sensitive, and truly effective leadership in order to change this "benign environment" in which racism and sexism can survive. In other words we call Notre Dame's leadership to recall its mission and to live up to its goals. 
If we, including the individuals per­forming in the "blackface" skit who came to realize and took steps to cor­rect their ignorance (and we commend their actions and intents), are to oper­ate under the presumption that we are members of the Notre Dame commu­nity, we have the right and obligation 
Student learns about thanks and giving 
A few weeks ago, when the rest of you were watching the Irish destroy Pitt, I unexpectedly went to Chicago to visit my friend, David. We spent the day shopping and visiting the Art In­stitute, and in the evening, topped it off with stuffed pizza from Giordano's. Dinner was delicious but, as every pa­tron of Giordano's knows, too filling to finish; consequently, we wrapped two of the remaining pieces for David's roommate, and one for mine, and went on our way. 
Christine McCann 
guest column 
Since it was only seven o'clock and I didn't have to meet my ride until eight, we walked to the Water Tower to watch the outdoor street performers. We were talking and laughing, paying little at­tention to anyone but ourselves, when we came upon a man who looked to be about ten years older than he really was. He had long hair and a beard and bad teeth, and was scrabbling through a garbage can looking for something to eat. 
We walked on past and pretended not to look, but my eyes filled up because I suddenly realized just how insig­nificant my little troubles are. 
I worry about getting an "A" on a paper or finding a date for a dance; this man spends each day of his life contemplating how closely he teeters between death and survival. We turned around and walked back, and I stood and watched David gain all of my respect and admiration in one of the most dignified exchanges I have ever witnessed. He said, "Sir, would you like some pizza?.'' And the guy smiled his 
...my eyes filled up be­cause I suddenly real­ized just how insignifi­cant my little troubles are. 
toothless grin and answered almost philosophically, "Yeah...thanks.. .I like pizza." 
I walked away and felt very good--not because I'd spent a day foraging through Marshall Field's Thirty­Percent-Off Sale and needed to quell my capitalistic guilt, but because it made me realize how good life is. Even in the midst of glaring poverty and op­pression, there is a sense of human dig­nity and spirit in this world which is almost unbreakable. Some might say that there is a lack of dignity in digging through cast-offs, but I'd disagree. Having the ability to accept a meal with a simple "thank you" shows perhaps the greatest courage of all. 
Hell Week is coming up for a lot of us, and with exams and papers coming out of my ears, I'm no exception. Nevertheless, I'll take time out tonight to walk to the Grotto, kneel down, and pray. I won't say long, complicated prayers or stay there for hours; in­stead, I'll simply whisper, "Thank you, thank you." Because, after all, is there any better way for us to express all that we feel? 
Christine McCann is a sophomore En­glish and history major. 
to change this University for the bet­terment of its principle beneficiaries, its students. We have the right and ob­ligation to challenge our University's Board of Trustees, its president, admin­istration, and faculty to stand up and make a bold, national statement on col­lege racism and its detrimental effects. 
We exj>ect such a statement from the nation's premier Catholic university, and we have the right to challenge the "powers that be" when they mis­represent members of the Notre Dame community. Notre Dame is seen worldwide as a first-rate Catholic uni­versity and its leadership must clearly define its position and efforts in these matters. The African-American stu­dent population, as well as the rest of the student body, wants to know exactly the leadership's sentiments about these matters and about the dark cloud over the Golden Dome--that is, continued in­vestment in companies dealing (directly or indirectly) in South Africa. 
The student body, and especially the African-American student community, has serious questions about the Univer­sity's leadership and its sincerity in dealing with the aforementioned issues. The student body deserves a Presiden­tial Statement. The African-American community, as well as other so-called "minority" communities, simply deserves better. 
We know that we cannot challenge the University's leadership without of­fering some constructive recommen­dations. The ND:SMC NAACP proposes the following: 
First, the establishment of a Univer­sity Study on the Racial and Sexual At­titudes of members of the Board of Trustees, administration, faculty, and student body. 
Second, the establishment of a task­farce to combat racism and sexism based out of a proposed "Office of Race and Gender Awareness" located in either the LaFortune Student Center or the Administration Building. 
Third, a presidential directive to each dormitory and the Office of Student Af­fairs, and student government to dis­cuss racial, ethnic, and gender sensi­tivity. 
Fourth, a presidential visit to each dormitory, the Office of Student Af­fairs, and student government to inves­tigate what efforts have been taken to eliminate this benign environment that allows racism and sexism to grow un­checked. 
Fifth, a presidential directive to each dormitory to establish a race/gender awareness committee. 
Sixth, a presidential statement to each college dean and department head 
(1) directing these individuals to sup­port minority student awareness func­tions and (2) emphasizing to these in­dividuals the implications of not doing so. 
Seventh, a presidential statement to the Vice President of Student Affairs stressing the importance of monitoring and editing senseless and tasteless ac­tions taken on the part of members of the student body and establishing cor­rective measures when such actions are taken. 
Eighth, a presidential directive that each racial andlor sexual offense will be handled by the proposed Office of Race and Gender Awareness and that a report be given to a proposed Race and Gender Awareness Board and the Office of Student Affairs. The Office of Student Affairs will take corrective measures and the Race and Gender Awareness Board, out of the proposed Office of Race and Gender Awareness, will issue a report to the Board of Trus­tees, who will, hopefully, look at cor­recting the problem at the institutional level. 
Ninth, a presidential commitment to be more accessible to minority student organizations through periodic visits to their meetings and functions if properly notified. 
Tenth, a presidential statement to the whole Notre Dame community and the nation concerning the need for campus racial and gender sensitivity and ac­tions taken by the University of Notre Dame to address these issues. 
If the University can study and take actions to cure the sickness of al­coholism, through the Office of Alcohol and Drug Awareness, why cannot the University take similar actions dealing with the sickness of racism, sexism, and other social injustices? To many students and in many ways, this is the best of times and the worst of times. Minority student enrollment is slowly increasing. Through such unfortunate yearly events as the "blackface" skit in the Sorin Hall Talent Show, many students find themselves shut out from the Notre Dame community. To be a true part of the Notre Dame family each of us must constantly battle rac­ism and sexism. 
Notre Dame students must take many tests. Now the University's lead­ership, from the Board of Trustees and its president to its newly-hired instruc­tors and teaching assistants, must take a test. This is a test of the moral and ethical fortitude of the University's leadership concerning racial and sexual harmony. Since Notre Dame and its leadership are nationally recognized and emulated, this test accurately serves as a litmus test of the advance­ments in terms of race and gender re­lations. The students will monitor this test; there will be no curving of grades and, as always, the Honor Code is in effect. Many students wish you good luck on your test. 
Lionel M. Coleman is president of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's NAACP. 
Doonesbury  
... ANDP/13 5HaT ZONKEfi!. ANDMAl<:'::: Y&5TEI?PAY, 50 YOU'R& IN GOOD COMPANY! I  I'P JU5T L./1<& YOU 7V MAl<& 71113 CA5i8 fOR IA/AW&N CO~­fKJ/3, 7l3U WHAT ITMeANT 7V YOU. I  YOU CAN D£SCR/8E. 5PI3CIFIC tXP8RJ&NC£50RMOR& G£N­f3/?At Flii3UNGS. IT'sWTtmY UP 7V YOU. I JU5T /A/ANT YOU 7V Fl?Ei/3-A550CIATE3 ON CAM­/ &RA.'  

Garry Trudeau 
OMY, 
8UTNO 
NUOITY. 
\ 
Quote of the Day 
"The most certain test by which we judge whether a country is really free is the amount of security enjoyed by minorities." 
John E.E. Dalberg (1834-1902) 
Viewpoint
Page6 Monday, November 21, 1988 
Mischief brings fame to computer guru 
Who says that it is difficult to get fa­mous in modern times? There is a really quick--and fun--way to get fa­mous. Mr. Robert Morris, Jr., at the age of 23, just demonstrated how to do it. The clue to fame in our times is not to burn the Temple of Apollo, or Jeffer­son Memorial, or Washington Monu­ment, but rather to perform some harmless mischief, harmless yet provocative enough to stir a troubling sense of intellectual inferiority in the adult society. 
Xiao Xiang 
guest column 
Mr. Morris petit is famous now. The TV networks spread his name across the nation overnight. For days the newspapers around the country reserved the headlines for his legen­dary deeds. Throngs of journalists chase him down the streets and dig out his anecdotes from whoever has neared him. All of a sudden, the Morris petit out-famed the Morris grand, his father, the famed computer expert whose fame is hard-won through scores of years' toil. Nothing else can again cheer the 
public up. 
Indeed, everybody is amused, everybody--but badly enough--except Morris petit himself. He is scared. Right, he amused everbyody else but scared himself. Mischief done, he could have sat back with a Lite or a Bud and enjoyed the fun of seeing a nation of computer experts--his dad included-­bugging around like a nest of disturbed ants, yet instead, he sat worrying. Only his mom's presence could give him enough courage to be interviewed by the reporters. This makes him a less than perfect hero. He had the guts to do it, but hasn't the guts to enjoy it. Alas! With a little more courage, he could not only have out-famed his fa­ther but also out-heroed Colonel North and thereby eased Americans' hero­crave. 
If Morris petit did it less than per­fectly, proving that a hero does not have to wear a coat of armor, Herr Rust, der Deutch Jung, did it nearly perfectly. A year ago, he did what Goring had not dared to dream: traversing thousands of miles of Soviet air defense and lan­ding his little plane right at the center of Red Square, amongst those onion­headed spires of Eastern Orthodox churches and the hammer-and-sickle patterned red flags, a prankster dragon-fly visiting a strange meddle blooming with odd flowers. With a grin on his face, he got down from the plane and was immediately surrounded by a cheering crowd. The journalists as well as KGBs, always present under Mos­cow's dull sky, flooded to him as he gave his signatures to his instantly con­verted fans. They still remember his unconcealable grin. 
Guys, if you want your picture to appear in the Paris Match beside those of the rich and the famous, don't write on mischief, make it. 
Mr. Rust's surprise visit to Moscow was no less surprising than Hitler's Blitzkrieg. No bomb was necessary, the news was explosive enough. It shocked the general of the Red Army's air force out of his office. The Pentagon must have loved it. But wait a minute, Pent­agon, wait until your turn comes, when even Dr. Strangelove can't help you. Last year the mischief befell your rival, this year it befalls you. Now everybody's curious to see who in Washington will be shocked out of his office this time for Mr. Morris petit's mischief. If anybody will be, Mr. Mor­ris grand most likely will be. If that happens, the son will have not only out­famed the father, but also out-officed the father. 
Mischief is probably one of the first things most of us learned in our early childhood. Known as the bad boy in the neighborhood, I did numerous mis­chiefs, but obviously, none of which was big enough to win me fame. If I had been rich enough to own a plane, I would have flown to Moscow before Mr. Rust did (although I knew my ex­socialist-brother would treat me brot­herly). If I had been a smart enough kid, I would have released very mean computer viruses. I was apparently nei­ther, so I end up writing this column on mischief which wins me neither fame nor buck. 
Guys, if you want your picture to ap­pear in the Paris Match beside those of the rich and the famous, don't write on mischief, make it. Make it big. The big­ger the mischief, the bigger your name. 
Xiao Xiang is a graduate student in physics. 
Status quo not enough for GSU 
In the past few weeks, graduate stu­dents have been getting a lot of atten­tion. The Graduate Student Union has been working very hard to make the community aware of the situation of graduate students and is therefore ex­tremely pleased that this has been the case. We write this article to clear up some inaccuracies and misunderstand­ings that have been given expression in an article ("Graduate Students En­joy their Anonymity," Nov. 17) by a graduate student in the physics depar­tment. 
Victor J. Krebs GSU 
guest column 
First, the graduate student situation: The writer suggests that it is merely the GSU's opinion that "graduate stu­dents are treated poorly by the Univer­sity and that major changes in Univer­sity policy toward grads are needed." But the fact is that this situation is em­phatically recognized by graduate stu­dents and admitted by most members of the University administration. The writer himself wrote last semester, in an inflamatory leaflet passed around the Graduate Student Council mem­bers: "The purpose of the GSU is to promote the improvement of grad stu­dent life. In the two years I have been a grad student, conditions have not im­proved, but have only gotten worse." Things have not improved much since then, so we wonder what could have changed his mind. 
Second, graduate student represen­tation: The writer asks, "some grads have called for more 'representation' at the University. I'm not sure exactly what that means." It is alarming to us that, having been a departmental rep­resentative, the writer is still not quite clear about what he was supposed to be doing. But he continues, "there is practically nothing that any student or­ganization can do for me with ten years of resolutions and meetings that my ad­visor or my department can't do with a single phone call." Good for him. 
But the issue for the Graduate Stu­dent Union is the well-being not of one graduate student or even one depart­ment, but of the whole graduate student body. To that purpose, the GSU re­quires every department to designate representatives to the Council and tries to place graduate representatives in as many University committees as possi­ble to provide graduate student input for those decisions which affect us all in the Notre Dame community. Only in this concerted way can graduate stu­dents work as a unified body for the improvement of conditions in all con­cerned areas. 
Third, graduate student housing: It is false that "most students prefer to live off-campus," as the writer states in his article. In the 1987 Housing Sur­vey (of which the writer should have been aware since he was then a departmental representative) 42 per­cent of single graduate students preferred the on-campus option. Only 15 percent preferred off-campus housing, and the rest (43 percent) had no preference. One can reasonably ex­pect that, even if only for financial reasons, the on-campus alternative would be preferred by most of them. 
Of course the writer is right in claim­ing that the University cannot be forced into building housing for graduate stu­dents, nor is that what the GSU is sug­gesting we do. Nor are we "lilegging and pleading." Our task is to maintain an ongoing dialogue with the adminis­tration to make the University aware of the problem, until they recognize the urgency of the is"sue. In fact Fr. Malloy has recently reiterated the University's commitment to graduate housing during a forum in St. Edward's Hall by saying: "We are exploring now ways to finance the construction of graduate housing (on-campus) as soon as possi­ble." It is changes like this that are necessary and that the GSU is trying to help come about. 
Fourth, graduates and undergradua­tes: the writer suggests that the GSU's Graduate1Jndergraduate committee is expecting "that grad students try to be­come more like undergrads." This is foolish. (It is as foolish as to suggest that when we ask for more faculty­student interaction we are expecting faculty members to try to act like stu­dents again). He further claims that "(the GSU) demands that the Uni­versty treats us like undergrads." This is not only preposterous, it is also false. His fears that we may start being treated as undergrads are therefore to­tally unwarranted. The writer also as­sumes that we want graduates to inter­act with the undergraduates in their social functions. We know that is one of the areas where graduates and undergraduates have the least in com­mon, so we would be mistaken in trying to change that. 
The main purpose of the Graduate1Jndergraduate committee is to integrate graduate students into the life of the University, not to transform graduate students into undergraduates (or into administrators, or into anyth­ing else for that matter.) The thrust of our efforts is to improve the quality of life for graduate students. This means fulfilling their unique needs as well as helping to improve the cultural and in­tellectual life of the University by in­tegrating the distinctive identities of graduate students into the community. Our premise is, as we wrote in the 1988 'GSU report to the Board of Trustees, 
that as graduate students we have very much to contribute to the Notre Dame community. 
One specific area where graduates and undergraduates can indeed inter­act is the intellectual life of the com­munity. Now the writer is entitled to his unwillingness to participate in "in­tellectual activities" outside his school work. But there are plenty of graduate students who don't see their intellectual life restricted to their classrooom or lab hours. ~ioreover there are many graduate students who are happy for the opportunity to help other members of the community with their talents and experience. That may be altruistic. But if the GSU is being accused of being too altruistic, then we think the accusation speaks for itself. 
We at the GSU are all proud of these changes of late, and we will persevere and encourage others to join us in in­tegrating graduate students into the University community and in improv­ing the present quality of graduate student life despite the efforts of those few who are satisfied with the status quo, whatev{lr their reasons may be. Victor J. Krebs is the president of the Graduate Student Union. 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submit­ted to the Viewpoint department. Please note the briefer the piece, the greater its chances of reaching print. 
._____________________, 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Ed1tor-m-Ch1el Managmg Ed1tor  Chros Murphy Chros Donnelly  Busmess Manager Advert1smg Oes1gn Manager  John Oxnder Molly Kollen  
News Ed1tor  Reg1s Coccoa  Advertlsmg Manager  Linda Goldschmodl  
News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  Product1on Manager  Bernadene Shotts  
The Observer IS the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College II does not necessaroly reflect the pollc1es of the adm1n1straloon of e1ther 1nsl11uloon The news IS reported as accurately and obtecllvely as  V1ewpomt Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor Accent Ed1tor  Man Slaughter Marty Strasen Beth Healy  Systems Manager Controller Graph1c Arts Manager  Mark A1dgeway Todd Hardoman Marga Bruns  
poss1ble Uns1gned ed1toroats represent the op1n1on of the matoroty of the Ed1toroal Board  Samt Mary·s Ed1tor  Sandy Ceromele  
Commentaroes. teners and the Jns1de Column present the v1ews of theor authors Column  Photo Ed1tor  M1chael Moran  
space IS ava1labte to all members of the commun1ty and the tree express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through tellers. IS encouraged  Founded November 3,1966  


~-----~--~---~-~­
Accent
Monday, November 21, 1988 
eye 7 


Golden Throats scream comedy, 

MATTHEW SPATZ 
not talent 
Tambourine Maaaaaaaan!" The entire fiasco makes me 
B 
accent writer wonder if copyright laws offer any protection, not only earn me up, Scotty! These were my first words for the artist, but also to the listening public as a whole. upon hearing the notes usher from the throat of Without a doubt, the greatest auditory assault occurs Leonard Nimoy. The green-blooded Vulcan moonlights when Mae West squeals out the lines "Twist and from his post on the U.S.S. Enterprise to sing the 
Shout". I had always been led to believe that her voice praises of CCR's "Proud Mary". He grooves with any of ~ was one of the most alluring in feminine history. When the best white singers, right down to the toinin' and she attempts to sing, however, listeners should be boinin'. advised to turn tail and run (or at least fast-foward). I This album, called Golden Throats, is a recent release could not even listen to the song in its entirety. by the Rhino record company. It boasts "14 unbeliev­l was relUctant at first even to attempt a written able performances by the most beloved personalities of review of this already classic album because you really our time." Some of your favorite T.V. legends are here must listen to _it to appreciate just how pathetic it is. to sing for you: Eddie Albert (Oliver from "Green Acres"), Sebastian Cabot (Mr. French from "Family But I suppose the simple sight of "House of the Rising Affair"), Jack Webb (Sgt. Friday of "Dragnet"), Jim Sun" by Andy Griffith is enough to turn even the Nabors (Gomer Pyle) and, of course, William 'Captain strongest of stomachs. Kirk' Shatner, to name a few. I guess the scariest thing is that most of these artists 
are sincere. This is an anthology, extracting from such 
These guys annihilate some of the classic rock tunes masterpieces as "Sebastian Cabot, Actor ... Bob Dylan, of our time including "House of the Rising Sun", "White Poet", the foot-stompin' classic "Andy Griffith Shouts Room", "I Can See for Miles", and (brace youselves) the Blues and Old Timey Songs", Shatner's introspec­"Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds". tive "The Transformed Man", and two of five Nimoy 
But the legendary Bob Dylan sustains the greatest releases "The Way I Feel" and "The New World of abuse as "Blowing in the Wind", "It Ain't Me, Babe", Leonard Nimoy". I doubt many bought these albums and "Like a Rolling Stone" meet with the likes of Eddie and, judging from this collection, they aren't worth the Albert and Sebastian Cabot. Mr. French even has his vinyl they were pressed on. string quartet behind him as he recites the famous lines. Whether you are a fan of the music or the 
'musicians', this album is a must-buy. I won't take the The most slanderous Dylan song comes, however, blame for any damage on your ears, but I can't see ho\\ 
when William Shatner photon torpedoes the heck out of you could go wrong with Mr. French's "Like a Rolling "Mr. Tambourine Man". It sounds like he is screaming Stone" blasting at your next party. Trust me, it's like to his arch foe Kahn when he yells his final "Mr. nothing you've ever heard. 
Y
ou're a turkey if... * You sincerely think Elvis is still alive. 
* You introduce yourself to 
honey -­know -­
* You can't sleep nights worrying about which brand of battery actually lasts the longest. 
'~ Your idea of a good SYR theme is "Velveeta through the years: A history of pro­cessed cheese." 
*You don't have at least two items of official ND cloth­ing.
* 
Integratmg across n-th dimensional space is your idea of a fun party game. 

* 
You actually meet people on "teen chat party" lines. 


*You hang up before the beep on answering machines. 
You are a Thanksgiving turkey if. • • 
* 
You don't like Circus Lunch. 

*You weren't ecstatic about Geraldo Rivera getting his nose broken on his own TV show. 

* 
You complain about the dining hall food and then go back for seconds. 

* 
You like the new alcohol and SYR policies. 

* 
You think that ZIP 104 is the best radio station ever. 

* 
You go through the per­sonals every day looking for your name. 

* 
You don't play Sunny 101.5's Name That Lunchtime Gold. 

* 
You leave all the tags on mattresses out of fear of the 


*You're excited about the * You didn't know that Tif­consumer police. possibility of being kicked out fany's versions of "I Think of your dorm to make room We're Alone Now" and "I 
* You've never been to anfor an incoming freshman. Saw Him Standing There" ND football game.
were remakes. 
·* You call Raghib Ismail "Rocket" only because you can't pronounce his real name. 
* 
You worry about copyrights when you xerox a magazine. 

* 
You actually give people hamburger coupons as presents. 

* 
Your best pick-up line is "Hey, how 'bout that football team?" 


*You've never skipped your 8:00a.m. class, or for that matter, 9:00 10:00 or 11:00. 
*You don't know all the words to the Notre Dame Vic­tory March. 
* 
You still think that Gary Hart and Donna Rice were "just friends." 

* 
You skip football games to study. 


*You have bought all the books required for your classes. 
* 
You do all the reserve reading that is assigned. 

* 
You study more than you sleep. 

* 
You take things like this seriously. Happy Thanksgiv­ing! 


Bill Watterson 

* You invented the check­mark system. 
*Oprah Winfrey's loss of 60 pounds excites you in any way. 
* 
You sincerely liked either Bush or Dukakis. 

* 
You actually memori:le the zip code on your fake id before going to the bars. 


* You like the smell of et­
hanol. *You love Top 40. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
-NhEt--1 I gRo'N vp, I ThEN I'Ll CoME: h<lCk WQI-Jt +--. bE qN i~'IE.NtoR. 1·:~ Yt;'>tER.:lQy fiRst I 'N,LL I 
o tiME MqcHiNE. 


~...... ;-----'>­
1:. 0YHII OJro •"'~dl P•t·~~ ~~n~.oot • ·• ~.,. 
page 8 The Observer Monday, November 21, 1988 


SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jerry Durso was named the outstanding wrestler of this weekend's St. Louis Open. Durso placed first in the 134-pound division. Two other Notre Dame wrestlers placed in the individual-draw tournament that had no team scoring. Pat Boyd finished second at 142 pounds, and Andy Radenbaugh was fourth at 118. -The Observer 
The self-paced swim program will have its next meeting Monday, Nov. 28 at 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic classroom. A video presentation will be given, and workouts will be issued. -The Observer 
lnterhall football equipment return for teams who have not yet done so will take place Wednesday, Nov. 30, with exact times appearing in The Observer immediately following Thanksgiving break. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for men's basketball, women's basketball and grad basketball with the opportunity of earning $8 per game. Stop by the NVA office or call239-6100 for more details. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Irish hockey destroyed by Lake· Forest 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 
The 1988-89 Notre Dame hockey schedule features some 

of  the  finest  teams  in  the  
country.  
Lake  Forest  is  not  one of  

them, but don't tell that to the Foresters. 
After losing to Notre Dame (3-7-2) five times last season, the Foresters returned to the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse with a vengeance Friday night, trouncing the Irish 5-1 en route to a sweep of the home-and­home series. Lake Forest com­pleted the sweep Saturday on their home ice with an 8-4 vic­tory over the Irish. 
Lake Forest exploded for four goals in the third period of Friday night's game, including three within just 71 seconds. A series of defensive miscues by the Irish sparked the Forester attack. 
"It's not that the players don't want to win," said Irish coach Ric Schafer, "we just keep making costly mistakes. We're not quick enough to cover up for those mistakes." 
Following a scoreless first period, forward Dennis Moran took a pass from Jeff Sather and slid the puck behind Irish goalie Lance Madson to give Lake Forest a 1-0 advantage in the second. The Irish applied consistent pressure on the Foresters, but failed to cash in on a number of scoring oppor­tunities. 
Right wing Andy Slaggert broke away down the left side of the ice in the first period, but his shot from the left face-off circle banked off the left cros­sbar. Left wing Matt Hanzel also had a chance to put the Irish on the board early, but his shot from the crease sailed just wide left of an open net. 
Notre Dame bounced back into the game two minutes and 35 seconds into the third stanza when Michael Curry skated out from behind the net and cen­tered the puck onto the blade of right wing Rob Bankoske, who slammed it home for the lone Irish score of the game. 
But just 35 seconds later Sat­her put the Foresters on top again, scoring amidst a flurry of activity around the Irish net. Forward Dan Slavin was credited with an assist on the play. Slavin, Sather and for­ward Glenn Whalen closed out the scoring for Lake Forest. 
"There are glaciers in Alaska that move faster than some of our players," said a solemn Schafer after the game. "We need an infusion of talented hockey players." 
Lake Forest catapaulted to a 5-1 lead in the first period Sat­urday night on its way to an 8-4 victory over Notre Dame. Once again, defensive breakdowns and a failure to convert scoring chances did in the Irish. 
"We had quite a few scoring opportunities," said Schafer. "We outshot our opponent, but we just didn't convert." 
Larry Bird is cooling his heels 
Associated Press 
BOSTON --Larry Bird under­went "very successful" sur­gery on both heels Saturday and the Boston Celtics' star should be able to return to bas­ketball in three to four months, his surgeon said. 
Dr. Arnold Scheller, who per­formed the 90-minute opera­tion, said Bird would remain hospitalized for one to two days and wear fixed casts for about six weeks. He estimated that for the following six weeks Bird would wear removable casts. 
Then, he said, it would be up to Celtics' Coach Jimmy Rodgers to decide when the 31­year-old Bird could play. 
Scheller said at a news con­ference that his reason for changing his original estimate of a three-month rehabilitation "is the potential for rupture" of the Achilles' tendons. The tendons were cut in both heels to remove the bone spurs that were irritating them. 
He said 30 percent of the sur­face area of the tendons was damaged in the operation, per­formed under general anes­thesia, rather than the 40 to 50 percent he suspected Friday night. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
ACADEMICBUSINESS TYPING 237-1949 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·7009. 
LOCAL NOT FOR PROFIT OAGANIZA· TION HAS OPENINGS FOR QUALIFIED PERSONS IN OUR GROUP HOMES RESIDENTIAL 'ASSIS· TANT&SUBSTITUTES PROVIDES CARE AND TREATMENT FOR DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED ADULTS. FLEXIBLE WORK SCHEDULES. VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE AND TRANSPORTATION NEEDED. FULL TIME, PART TIME. SUBSTITUTES. REPLY TO: LOGAN 1235 N. EDDY ST., P.O. BOX 1049, SO. BEND. IN 46624; 2B9·4B31 
LOST/FOUND 
I lost a gold pulsar watch last Friday.The band on it is busted.so if you found it don't put it on. Instead. please call Sh1fty at 15BB Otherw1se I will have my room· male Paul beat you up. Reward offered for the Iinder. 
REWARD to the person returning my B9 class nng left 1n the Loftus mens locker room tt has MJM on the 1nside Call Man at 289·4315. 
LOST· An 1B", 14K gold chain. Lost sometime before noon on Tues.. Novem· ber 15. It is diamond cut on one s1de. henng bone on the other Please call Leslie at 2B 12. 
LOST: ONE ILLINOIS DRIVER'S LICENSE. THE PERSON WHO FOUND IT CALLED MY ROOMMATE. PLEASE CALL AGAIN· I NEED SOME IDENTI· FICATION N 2681 KEVIN 
LOST: Grey Mexell Dloc at Computing Center on Sunday, Nov. 13 at approx. 5 pm. Initialized TRACY. Need desperately. Call 239·5474 or 683­7664. 
SSSS REWARD I lost a small brown ZIP" 
per bag with my keys and ID in ~. The ID is behind the flap 1n the key cha~n Keep the money, I desperately need the ID. keys and bag. I will do anything to get them backl Well, almost anything ...... Call Liz X2n9 
LOST III Three keys anached to a leather key chain. Two of the keys have the num· ber "234" engraved on them. They were lost on 11116. Please call Mike at X3268 If you find them. 
[ FORRENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291·7153. 
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO ND. AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES· TEA. 2B7·63B9 OR 6B3-68B9. 
WANTED 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. Pandora's Books BOB Howard St. Just off N.D. Ave. Ph# 233·2342 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $90Q-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries, All fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04-Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
HELPIIIIIIIIIIII need a ride to Hiram Ohio for TG Will help pay. Need to leave Wed­nesday Call Bnan at x1 091 
NEEDED: a ride to O'Hare Tuesoay mor· n1ng for an B a.m. fhght..if you can help me call 4932! Thanks. 
FOR S 
PHOENIX! 1 Way Plane Ticket from Chicago Midway on Dec. 15 Great Pnce! Call Kelly 3462 
FOR SALE '82 CHEVY CAVALIER­NEW BRAKES, NEW TIRES, OVER $1000 REPAIR WORK SINCE AUG.(CARBORATOA NEEDS WORK) 102,000 MILES, GOOD PRICE·$500 CALL MARY AT 2B4-5060 
TICKETS 
TOP$ FOR GOOD SO. CAL. SEATS. NEED 2-6. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT 
(805) 948-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. 
HELP I REALLY NEED 3 GAs to USC! Cecilia 4431 
NEED B USC TIX. CALL 2761". 
I need one (only one!) ticket for USC.$$$$ call Molly 4544. 
HELP MUST HAVE 4 GAS FOR USC PLEASE PLEASE CALL HEATHER 2B4­5264 OR LEAVE A MESSEGE 
I NEED 2 USC TICKETS, HAVE $$$$! PLEASE CALL TEARY, 28B-5423 
Even the Pope didn't sell out the Coliseum, but Notre Dame haslllll have 2 USC GA's for the highest bidder-..Call Ed at 1686 
PERSONALS 
N.D. 
CANDY Personalized Notre Dame. Green-White Tatty $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 

S. 
FIGUEROA, L.A., CA 90037. 213·741­1338. 


UNIV PIZZA DLVY 2n-6689 
HEY SENIORS ... Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell Going to an SYR is hell. You and I, we both know that, The Christmas Formal is where it's at. 
Be sure to sign-up before you leave for Thanksgiving ... HO 
HO HO 
ONLY A GRINCH ... would dare miss the Senior Christmas dance on Dec. 2. Even linle Susie Lou Who is going ... 
MATH TUTOR-234-3878. 
I
................................................................ 
"John Blasi Is a male slut." -T.C. 
AUDITIONS for the Feb. 22·25 produc­tion of the musical, "Simon" will be held at Washington Hall on Nov. 29·30 from 6-9:30. Sign up for an audition time beforehand in the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune Questions should be directed to Rob Meffe at # 3660. 
ADOPTION IS THE ONLY WAY we will ever hear the laughter of our own child when St. Nicholas comes at Chnstmas. We are a happily marned Cbuple, both doctor who wish to take turns staying at home when we have a baby to adopt and love as our own. LegaV medical ex­penses paid. Call collect, confidentially, anytime for more info or to leave a mes­S"!Je. (317)·B44-1B56 
I NEED A AIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR T·GIVING. $$. CHRIS x304B. 
Happy Thanksgiving :rom CLUB 23 Open this weekend. 
WANTED: Riders to Houston for Thanks­giving. Leaving Mondayish, returning Sunday. Call Brian at x3670. Please please please. 
Mike. Happy Vacation and have a turkeyriffic Thanksgiving. I've got lots to be thankful for. (Of course that couldn't mean you!) 
Cindy 
.......................................................... NO, .. .WAIT YOU GUYS, YOU, YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND-l'tS MY BIRTHDAY! I'M 19 TODAY! 
P.S. YEAH, RACH, WE KNOW! LOVE, US 
FIESTA BOWL DISCOUNTED AIR 
FARES Round trip to Phoenix: Chicago 
O'Hare $240 & $24B Chicago Midway 
$2B3 Detroit $214-$29B New York J.F.K. 
$27B Cleveland $29B 
Ft. Wayne $35B Dallas $25B Wash. D.C. 
$23B Philly $31B Cincy $31B Louisville 
$33B Atlanta $2BB Boston $25B Limited 
no. of seats available' Must buy by Nov. 
2B. Call Cynthia (214) 233·B46B or 
(214) 324·9B31 (H). 
I need a ride to DALLAS for T ·giving break. W1ll sing show tunes. Call Mike at x4339 
hlag. 
DESPAAATE FOR AIDE TO NYC! WILL DO ANYTHING. CAN LEAVE 11121 22 
23. CALL DAN AT 1724 
Thankyou St. Jude 
Need a ride to MPL&St. PAUL for Thanksgiving. Can leave Monday. Please call 2B4·4430. 
JUNIORS MOVIE NIGHT TUES. NOV. 29 9:30 SENIOR BAR FEATURING PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES $1 FOOD WILL BE AVAILABLE AT NOMINAL PRICES 
SO YOU SAY YOU DIDN'T GET THAT DOGBOOK PIX TAKEN? WELL, YOU STILL HAVE A CHANCE TO GET IN THAT FAMOUS BOOK CANDID INDIV. AND GROUP SHOTS ARE BEING ACCEPTED SLIDE UNDER THE CLASS OFFICE DOOR UNTIL NOV. 30 WITH $.50 FOR EACH PHOTO WE CAN'T PROMISE All PHOTOS WILL GO IN EVEN IF YOU GOT A DOGBOOK PHOTO TAKEN, SUBMIT A GROUP CANDID MAKE THE PARENTS PROUD! 
HEY SENIORS: 
THIS IS THE LAST WARNING YOU GET. MONEY FOR THE CHRISTMAS FOR­MAL IS DUE BEFORE THANKSGIVING. SEE YOUR CLASS REP OR GO TO THE CLASS OFFICE ON THE SECOND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. 
Only a Scrooge would miss this.. 
TO MY LEWIS SWEETHEART, YOUR SPINACH PIES AND COFFEE SYRUP ARE ON THE WAY! I MISS YOU. 
LOVE, COACH BLUTO 
NEED AIDE TO GT 7 OHIO TNPK. CAN LEAVE TUES NOON. 429B 
To the girl who helped me investigate the arrows pointing to Howard Hall on 11/17: What else have you learned about this perplexing mystery? Call M1ke at X32BB. 
Troy, I beleeeeve in your talent 'cause you know something about the laws o' har­monivity and musicality... ·Just wanted to wish you lots o' luck in the studio. Just do your best and you'll succeed' I love you and I'm very proud of you. 
LaRae 
THERESA KELLY FOR FIESTA BOWL QUEEN--More than tust a preny face... 
FIESTA BOWL!!! BE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE ACTION!" Guaranteed hotel reservations 114 m1le from the stadium, right on the Arizona State Campus' Close to Golf, New Year's Eve parties, and other fun desert activities. Call 233-2BBB. My hours so if I'm not home, try again later. 
GORGEOUS EARS: Congrats on your 1st offer! I know why they want you!·S 
If you or someone you love Is hook· ed on PEZ-don't walt. Call now toll free-1·800-STOP-PEZ You'll be as· signed a code number and we won't ask your name. This message has been brought to you by SAP (Students Against Pez). PEZ. The big Lie. Love Beth and Meg. 
..... HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUE IN •••• 
••••• McCANDLEES, MY FAVORITE•••• ••••• LITTLE SISTER ......... YOUR BROTHER MATT···· 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY MARY MULVANEY!!!!! 
Don't Be a Turkey Get Stuffed and Smashed This Thanksg1v1ng! 
Love, All of Your Fnends in Walsh 
PEGGY:How about another romantic evening at a play.Jamie 
EUZABETH;wilt you not marry me.J 
To the lady I saw on campus, Tara, meet me at 4am tonight.you know. 
UH HIYA KC, alias CK, alias HOMEFRY alias SLIM. alias SWEENEY SISTER. alias GIRL WITHOUT HER SHOES!! 
THANKS FOR BEING MY PAL 
DURING MY HELL WEEK 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE (MH) 
THE LEGEND OF THE YETI LIVES ON ... 
IMPEACH LEPRECHAUN DO YOU BELIEVE IN MAGIC? 
Happy b1rthday Jenny! 
Guess who? 
TODD 
I enjoyed having lunch with you twa weeks ago. Nat only did you cheer me up, but you left me with some new in­sights an football and band. The follow· up letter was what did it, though. It res· tared my faith in humanity. Do you need another friend? II sa. let's da lunch to­gether again sometime. Give me a call because I've truly.. "LOST THAT LOVIN' FEELING" 
PRAY TO ST. JUDE OF 
TO BEV, SHARON. NANCY, HANNA, 
LEROY, JERRY, BARB 
I'M HAVING FUN· HOW ABOUT YOU? 
MIKE 
TO THE SA. FROM 2ND FL. FISCHER. WEARING A CHICAGO BEARS CAP AT THE COMMONS WED. NIGHT THE 16TH. REMEMBER THE TEXAN BLONDE IN RED & BLUE? WAS IT ALL FOOTBALL TALK OR WHAT? REMEM­BER MY NAME LIKE I DO YOURS? AN­SWER ASAP' 
HAPPY B'OAY KIA· FEEL THE MUSIC INSIDE YOU-KIDDO! LOVE, MOM 
KIRSTEN-HAVE A HAPPY 18TH B'DAY! LOVE. KATHLEEN. NATALIE, AND THERESA 
HAPPY B·DAY Lynn Van Hersett! Luv, Piggy, Murph, Liz. I, Sue. TB1 
TOP 10 REASONS TO CALL AND WISH LYNN VAN HEASETT A HAPPY 20TH B·DAY AT 2B4·4419: 10.11 you can make a good g1n and tonic 9. II you're a multi million-aire CEO of a steakhouseB.She flies around WI Superman 7 .She lives Wla "pig" 6.Because she has a body by calenet1cs 5.Never W'but a cuppa­coffee 4.11 you need dishware from Saga 
3.11 you like removable green eyes 2.11 you have a bisexual name 1.She's a sexy Dallas dream!l!l 
WAS THERE A MAFIA CONNECTION TO JFK'S ASSASSINATION? FIND OUT TONIGHT AT 7:30 CARROLL AUD. SMC FREE AND OPEN TO ALL. 
Chris, 
Thanks for the ride home. Please tell your roommates I'm sorry for waking them up. Also, if you called last Saturday at 3:30a.m., I'm sorry I hung up on you. 
Lisa 
Katie and McWeed: Get up on one?! 
Monday, November 21, 1988 The Observer page 9 
Bills clinch division early; Saints clobber Broncos 
Associated Press 
The AFC east race is over, sooner than it has ever been. 
Scott Norwood's third field goal, from 30 yards at 3:47 of overtime, gave the Buffalo Bills a 9-6 victory over the New York Jets on Sunday that clinched the division crown. Buffalo, at 11-1 the best record in the league, clinched earlier than any AFC team has won its division since the NFL went to a 16-game schedule in 1978. It was the Bills first division crown since 1980. 
Norwood's winning kick was set up by a fumble by New York's Roger Vick, who was stripped of the ball by Derrick Burroughs at the Jets' 32. The Bills ran four plays before call­ing on Norwood to win the game before Buffalo's seventh sellout crowd of the season. Many of those fans stormed the field and tore down the goal­posts. 
Said Bills owner Ralph C. wil­son Jr.: "it feels great because I remember when they were throwing programs at me." 
Not all of the fans had a good time, however--security workers said three fans may have suffered broken legs in the process of tearing down the $7,000 goalposts. 
The Bills have won seven straight, while the Jets, 5-6-1, have dropped their last three. 
Indianapolis, which won the division last year, was eliminated when it lost 12-3 at Minnesota. New England and Miami, the other two AFC East teams, played Sunday night, but neither can catch the Bills. 
Saints 42, Broncos 0 
At New Orleans, Bobby Hebert completed 20 of 23 passes for 193 yards and three touchdowns as the Saints re­corded their most lopsided win ever. They also took a two­game lead over the Rams in the NFC west and clinched their second consecutive win­ning season --the only two in team history. 
Hebert hit Eric Martin for 40­and 6-yard scores and also con­nected with John Tice for an 8­yard touchdown. Rueben 
COPY EARLY COPY LATE COPY WEEKENDS 
When you need a full service copy shop before work or after hours. depend on Kinko's. 
kinko·s· 
the copy center 
18187Sla!e Road 23 
Mayes had 115 yards rushing, the first time in 20 games he has gone over the 100-yard mark since coming off knee surgery. 
Vikings 12, Colts 3 
At Minneapolis, the Vikings held Eric Dickerson to 72 yards and got four field goals from Chuck Nelson. 
The Vikings, 8-4, haven't al­lowed a rusher to gain 100 yards since Oct. 26, 1986, when Cleveland's Curtis Dickey had 
106. That's a span of 38 games, including the three with non­union players last season. 
The Colts, 6-6, had a five­game winning streak snapped. Dickerson, the NFL's leading rusher, failed to reach 100 yards for the third straight week but increased his season total to 1,237 yards, a club record. 
Eagles 23, Giants 17 
On the lOth anniversary of The Fumble, when the Eagles snatched a victory from appar­ent defeat at Giants Stadium, Philadelphia used a similar scenario. 
Clyde Simmons picked up a blocked field goal and ran 15 yards for the winning touch­down at 6:10 of overtime. Luis Zendejas set up for a 31-yard field goal attempt. Lawrence Taylor broke in and got a piece of the ball, sending it into the air. Simmons picked it up on the first bounce a yard behind the line of scrimmage and ran into the end zone. 
Chargers 38, Rams 24 
Mark Malone took over after 
Mark Vlasic suffered torn knee 
ligaments and guided San 
Diego to a pair of fourth­
quarter touchdowns by Barry 
Redden on 1-yard runs. 
Vlasic, starting just his 
second pro game, suffered the 
injury to his left knee late in 
the third quarter and will un­
dergo surgery and miss the rest 
of the season. Malone, who lost 
his starting job to Vlasic two 
weeks ago, threw an intercep-tion on the first play after he replaced Vlasic, then settled down, completing four of six for 128 yards as he kept the Chargers in front. 


Browns 27, Steelers 7 
In another game plagued by poor weather, the Browns beat the Steelers for the sixth straight time, dropping Pit­tsburgh to 2-10. The Steelers, non-winners at Cleveland since 1981, ensured themselves of matching their worst record in 19 years and have lost four in a row and 10 of their last 11 games. 
Frank Minnifield returned a 
Dillon 
continued from page 16 
Schneider's field goal on first down. 
"Our defense played great again and kept us in the game," said Dillon captain Paul Drey. 
Lewis 
continued from page 16 
Adamonis) really strong, but the weather conditions made it tough." 
The Lewis offense adjusted quickly to the dismal weather, marching 40 yards on its first possession to set up an Ellen Mouch 12-yard touchdown run. The Chickens made it 8-0 when Mouch rambled in on the two­point conversion. 
"We knew we'd be in a good position if we scored first," said Mouch. "I just want to give the line credit. They blocked punt 11 yards for a first-half touchdown and Bernie Kosar threw a 77-yard scoring pass to Reggie Lan­ghorne on the second play of the second half. The 77-yard TD pass was the longest comple­tion of Kosar's career and the longest for the Browns, 7-5, since Frank Pitts caught an 80­yarder from Mike Phipps against the Jets in 1972. 
Lions 19, Packers 9 
Wayne Fontes' debut as Lions coach was a success be­cause Eddie Murray kicked four field goals and Scott Wil­liams scored on a 1-yard run. 
However, the flip of a coin may have been even more of a deciding factor. 
"They (Dillon) were in con­trol by just winning the toss," said Wightkin. "We weren't ex­ecuting offensively and they put on pressure by giving us the ball first." 
Schneider had missed on 
opened up some big holes out there." 
The Blitz stormed right back on the following series, eating up 12:54 on an 82-yard drive. Marsh, who substituted at quarterback for injured Teresa Coombs, capped the Blitz at­tack by scampering 41 yards on a quarterback draw to make it 8-6. Then, with :06 left in the half, the B-P conversion at­tempt failed and it came back to haunt them in the end. 
"We didn't get the play going in the right way," said Marsh, who supplanted the quarter­back role well by amassing 109 total yards. "I was supposed to fake the pitch to the left and 
Chris. Andy. Yin and Pat find all the guys in Stanford 
JfYlppy 
~1(.5(jIo/If}{(j from our liouse to yours 

Love; Mom and Dad G. 
Detroit had lost three in a row and Darryl Rogers was fired as head coach last Monday. 
Bears 27, Bucs 15 
In one of the few games played in good weather, Chicago beat Tampa for the 12th straight time. The Bucs, 3-9 and losers of six of their last seven, haven't beaten the Bears since 1982. 
Neal Anderson ran for touch­downs of one and 17 yards and Brad Muster turned a screen pass into a 40-yard touchdown. The Chicago defense inter­cepted Vinny Testaverde twice. 
The Observer I Scott McCann 
lon's 3-0 overtime win on Sunday. Dave McMahon details the action, beginning on page 16. 
atempts of 45 and 37-yards before booting the game win­ner. 
Despite the outcome of the Studs' third straight champion­ship game, Wightkin viewed the season as a success. 
We had a lot of new players and everyone gave their best." 
bootleg right, but I turned the wrong way." 
The second half was all B-P. The Blitz ate up most of the clock and controlled the ground game but could not find the endzone. In their final drive, the Blitz went to their bread and butter--freshman tailback Kristy Alkidas. Alkidas teamed with Marsh in an option attack that brought B-P inside the Lewis 10. But at that point, the Lewis defenders turned it up a notch and kept the Blitz out of the endzone. 
"It was really dissapointing to get the ball down the field and not be able to get anyth­ing," Marsh said, "but at that point it was even hard think. It was so cold and wet." 
The inclement weather al­most changed the site of the game to the Loftus Center but the Lewis players voted to keep it in the stadium. 
"It was to our advantage beacause they're quick backs had trouble cutting back on the wet field," said Mouch. 
The Observer 

w-
r 
Make your reservations; bowl bids are official 
page 10 The Observer Monday, November 21, 1988 
Associated Press 
With all the talk and attention focused on Notre Dame and Southern California, the Uni­versity of Miami, Fla., still en­tertains notions of winning its second straight national cham­pionship. 
Miami's only loss of the season was to Notre Dame, 31­30, when the Hurricanes fumbled on the Fighting Irish 1-yard line. The third-ranked 'Canes now are 8-1 with regular-season games still to go against Cotton Bowl-bound Arkansas and Freedom Bowl­bound Brigham Young. 
On Saturday, Miami ac­cepted an invitation to meet Nebraska in the Orange Bowl on Jan. 2, then clobbered 11th­ranked Louisiana State 44-3. 
Notre Dame, ranked No. 1, will finish out its regular­season schedule against No. 2 Southern Cal, then take on un­defeated and fourth-ranked West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl. Southern Cal has a Jan. 2 Rose Bowl date against No. 12 Michigan. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame defeated Penn State 21-3 and Southern Cal captured the Pacific-10 Conference title and the Rose Bowl berth by downing No. 6 UCLA 31-22. 
Steve Walsh threw for 220 yards and two touchdowns in Miami's easy victory over Louisiana State, the worst home field setback for the Ben­gals since a 46-0 loss to Tulane in 1948. 
"I knew if they came out and kept making mistakes, this team is sharp enough to blow anybody out," Walsh said. "We got a lead and that helped. We really believed early that we could run the ball, and that helped when the monsoon started because you really couldn't see the receivers down field." 
LSU, 7-3, had its five-game 
winning streak snapped. 
Alabama might be watching 
the Jan. 2 bowl games on tele­
vision, but at least the Crimson 
Tide will have determined the 
makeup of two of the final 
postseason contests. 
On Friday, Alabama plays 
Auburn at Birmingham. If Al­
abama wins, Louisiana State 
will go to the Sugar Bowl on 
Jan. 2 to face Florida State, 
while Auburn will head to the 
Hall of Fame Bowl the same 
day to meet Syracuse. 
If Auburn wins, the Tigers will represent the Southeastern Conference in the Sugar Bowl at New Orleans and Louisiana State will play in the Hall of Fame at Tampa, Fla. 
"I'm just thrilled to get to go to the Sugar Bowl," said Florida State Coach Bobby Bowden. "Never having had the opportunity to play in it, it is going to be a great thrill for me." 
"They seem to be a very good team, better than us right now," Notre Dame Coach Lou Holtz said of West Virginia. "I've watched them on film, 
but all I can remember is they wore white on one film and dark on the other." 
Victories Saturday by South­ern California and Nebraska settled four Jan. 2 matchups: the Orange, Rose, Cotton and Citrus Bowls. 
Southern Cal, by defeating UCLA 31-22, clinched the Pacific-10 Conference title and a Rose Bowl berth against Mic­higan. UCLA goes to the Cotton Bowl to meet Arkansas. 
"UCLA is an outstanding team, as good a team as there is in the nation," Arkansas Co­ach Ken Hatfield said. "They'll be doing a great job mixing up 
and match ups are: 
California Bowl, Dec. 10 at Fresno, Calif: western Mic­higan vs. Fresno St.. 
Independence Bowl, Dec. 23 at Shreveport, La.: southern Mississippi vs. Texas-El Paso. 
Sun Bowl, Dec. 24 at El Paso, Texas: alabama vs. Army. 
Aloha Bowl, Dec. 25 at Honolulu: washington St. vs. Houston. 
Liberty Bowl, Dec. 28 at Memphis, Tenn.: indiana vs. South Carolina. 
All America Bowl, Dec. 29 at Birmingham, Ala.: florida vs. Illinois. 
Freedom Bowl, Dec. 29 at Anaheim, Calif.: brigham Young vs. Colorado. 
Holiday Bowl, Dec. 30 at San Diego: wyoming vs. Oklahoma State. 
Peach Bowl, Dec. 31 at At­lanta: iowa vs. North Carolina State. 
Gator Bowl, Jan. 1 at Jack­sonville, Fla.: georgia vs. Mic­higan State. 

1988-89 
BOWLS 
Liberty 
December 28th • 8:00 PM • 
All-American 
December 29th • 8:00 PM • ESPN 
Freedom 
December 29th • 9:00 PM • ESPN 
Holiday 
December 30th • 8:00 PM • ESPN 
Peach 
December 31st • 1 :00 PM •Mizlou 
Gator 
vs. Oklahoma 
1.15 million Arkansas vs. UCLA million Notre Dame vs. West VirQinia 
m1ll 
• 8:30 PM •ABC 
IU beats Stanford; Duke wins in first week of college hoop 
Associated Press 
Senior center Todd J adlow made 17 of 19 free throws in scoring a career-high 23 points as Indiana defeated No. 20 Stanford 84-73 Sunday night to reach the semifinals of the Big Apple NIT. 
Jay Edwards, who led all scorers with 27, made three 3­point shots and had 11 of In­diana's first 20 points as the Hoosiers moved ahead to stay early. He made his fifth 3­pointer of the night at the buz­zer. 
Battling a physical, aggres­sive Stanford squad, Indiana made the Cardinal pay by sinking 33 free throws and sen­ding five players to the bench on fouls. 
Indiana never trailed, taking the lead for good 13-11 on a tipin by Brian Sloan with 13:30 remaining in the opening half. The basket ignited a streak of eight straight points by Indiana that ended on an Edwards' 24­footer, putting the Hoosiers ahead 20-11 with 12: 01 left in the half. 
Stanford, which was led by Todd Lichti with 22 points, pulled to within five points five times before the half ended with Indiana ahead 32-27. The Cardinal pulled to within three twice early in the second half. 
N.C. 99, Georgia 91 
Scott Williams scored 25 points and Kevin Madden had 18 as sixth-ranked North Carolina knocked off Georgia 99-91 in Sunday's quarterfinals of the Big Apple NIT. 
The Tar Heels, 2-0, advanced to the semifinals at Madison Square Garden with two big scoring runs and a defense which held off a Bulldog rally late in the first half. 
Williams scored seven of the game's first nine points and contributed to North Carolina's 26-8 bulge in the first eight minutes. But Georgia, 1-1, rallied, using an 18-2 run to get within 28-26 after Sebastian Neal scored on a tap-in with 
7:24 left. 
Opening the second half much like the first, North Carolina went on a 15-0 tear and expanded its lead to 64-39 after a Rick Fox steal and dunk with 
16:57 remaining. 
Syracuse 107, Wyoming 
81 
Stephen Thompson had 19 points to lead six players in double figures as No. 8 Syracuse turned on its running game early to rout Wyoming 107-81 in the second round of the National Invitation Tourn­ament on Sunday. 
Syracuse, 2-0, scored on two fast break layups before the game was 20 seconds old and never slowed down. 
The Orangemen led 14-4 after a steal and Ia up b freshman 

Love from Dad, Mom, Cathy, Mark and Terry and Mo 
Billy Owens three minutes into the game. 
Robyn Davis was credited with two points on a goaltend­ing call and Kenny Smith sank a 3-pointer to pull Wyoming to within 14-9 with 16:16 remain­ing. Wyoming never got closer. 
The Orangemen substituted freely in the second period but still managed to increase their lead to 39 points late in the game. 
Wyoming, 1-1, scored the final 13 points of the game 
Bring this Ad and get 
10% off any purchase. 
MIAMI St. COMICS 1513 Miami Street South Bend, IN. 46613 1 

against Syracuse's reserves. Davis led Wyoming with 19 points. 
Duke 80, Kentucky 55 
Danny Ferry scored 23 points Saturday and No. 1 Duke used 16-and 13-point second-half bursts to pull away from out­manned Kentucky 80-55 in the lOth Tipoff Classic. 
HELP FIGHT 
BIRTH DEFECTS 
HOURS 10 • 6 Mon -Sat Sun 12-5 


Mod nay, November 21, 1988 The Observer page 11 
ND escapes with close win over Zadar; Ellis hurt 

a 67-yard touchdown bomb to "The whole defense played and into Aim's hands on the He's got good hands, and he's 
so tall that he can get them way 
Ismail that gave Notre Dame awfully well," Notre Dame play. a 21-3lead in the third quarter. head coach Lou Holtz said. "It The 6-7 junior also recorded up there." continued from page 16 From there, the Irish defense seems every week a different two tackles for losses and Notre Dame has not lost a 
Irish 
home game over the last twoyards on 15 carries in the game, took charge. When Notre player might stand out." knocked down a pass at the line seasons, while Penn State suf­but he wasn't always pump-Dame's offense was having This week Alm was the star. later in the game. 
fered its first losing season infaking and keeping it himself. trouble moving the ball, the The junior tackle became "This is the first time I've 50 years.
The junior quarterback was 10-defense made sure the Lions Notre Dame's interception ever heard of a team's leading "I don't know if I ever gotof-18 for 191 yards passing, in-did not take advantage of the leader when he snared his third interceptor being a defensive this team to believe in itself,"
eluding two interceptions and opportunities. pass of the season in the first lineman," said Irish inside quarter. Freshman defensive linebacker Wes Pritchett, who Paterno said. "I think we were a lot better than our record in­
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME end Arnold Ale batted a Lance led the team with nine tackles. 
Lonergan pass out of the air "That really says something. dicates. "But I'll be optimistic as soon 
. :********************************** as I see leadership and charac­
CPA REVIEW PROGRAM ! ! 
ter," Paterno continued. "Guys like (Frank) Starns,
~ : Juniors : Pritchett and (Mike)
IN PREPARATION FOR THE 
m ! The Junior Dogbook is now accepting ! Stonebreaker--they play with a O lot of class. They're tough, ag­
_ ! single shot portraits from anyone who did !
MAY, 1989 gressive, alert. You can just
l> * not get their picture t~~en at the previously * sense that they're good football CPA EXAMINATION enr !* scheduled times. In addition, the group !* players. Some of our guys are 
going to come around like
-i * snapshots & favorite quotes may also be * that."
* . * EXTRA POINTS: Holtz again
INFORMATION MEETINGc: ! submitted. Put your picture or quote 1n an ! 
expressed concern with the
m0 * envelope along with 50 cents and slide it * Irish kicking game. Reggie Ho z ! under the door of the class office by ! missed his only field-goal at­THURSDAY DECEMBER 1, 1988 -i * Tuesday, 11;22. This is the chance for you *' tempt, a 35-yard try, and start­
ing punter Jim Sexton's only
7:00P.M. -o ! & your friends to remember fun times ! boot went 33 yards. Senior Pete JJ ! forever, but remember the dog book cannot ! Hartweger replaced Sexton on 
ROOM 122 the last three punts and
-
0 ! guarantee that all submitted pictures will be ! averaged 40.3 yards, including 
HAYES-HEALY CENTER NOTRE DAME CAMPUS m ; used so make sure you come up with an ; a 49-yarder on his last kick. 
en * especially good photo. * 
* * 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ! t

********************************** 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
It almost was a case of bad news getting worse Friday night at the Joyce ACC. 
The Notre Dame basketball team was taken to the final seconds before winning an ex­hibition game 81-78 over Zadar of Yugoslavia, a team the Irish had defeated 120-81 a year ago. 
"You've got to get burned this way and hopefully it wakes you up," said Irish coach Dig­ger Phelps. "Our intensity and level of concentration will be much more improved in the next couple of weeks." 
Things got even scarier for the Irish after the game. While Zadar's Predrag Saric was missing a potential game-tying three-point shot in the final seconds, Irish freshman LaP­honso Ellis was lying in pain on the court. The 6-9 forward, who led all players with 15 rebounds, needed to be helped off the court. 
Ellis later was found only to have a bruised calf and will not miss any action. 
Zadar's Petar Popovic, who shot 9-of-14 from three-point range, led all scorers with 29 points. Jamere Jackson led the Irish with 21 points, while Saric added 20 for Zadar. 
Despite shooting just 43 per­cent and being outrebounded 23-19, the Irish led by as many as nine points during the first period. Zadar kept chipping away behind the three-point bombs of the 29-year-old Popovic, who scored 18 points (all on three-pointers) during the half. 
Zadar's Darko Pahlic fol­lowed the lead of Popovic at the buzzer, nailing a three-pointer from behind half court to tie the 36-36 at the half. 
For the game, Zadar shot 13­of-23 from three-point range and 17-of-40 on two-point shots. 
"It's a situation where you're used to going back from transi­tion and working from the in­side out," said Jackson. "They've got guys on the three­point lane, so you have to stop at the three-point lane and pick 

The Observer I Eric Bailey 
up the shooters. That's what the coaches told us to do, but we weren't concentrating enough." 
Zadar led for the first few minutes of the second half, but Ellis tipped in Joe Fredrick's missed shot with 17 :11 left to give the Irish a 42-41 lead they never relinquished. 
Notre Dame again built its lead up to nine points, leading 68-59 with 7:22left in the game. But that's when Petrovic started the second act of his air show. 
Petrovic hit a trio of three­point shots in the next five minutes to help cut Notre Dame's lead to 76-73 with 2:16 to play. 
Notre Dame's lead was down to one when Saric hit a three­pointer with 15 seconds left. But Fredrick made both ends of a one-and,one with 12 seconds left for the final points of the game. 
Fredrick, who scored only five points and played just 10 minutes after picking up three fouls in the first half, came off 
Shoot or dish off? Tim Singleton (right) had nine points and 12 assists Friday as the Irish squeezed by Zadar, Yugoslavia 81-78 at the Joyce ACC. Left, Irish freshman LaP­honso Ellis is helped off by teammates after colliding with a Zadar player at the close of the game. Ellis suffered a bruised calf. 
the bench to score 12 points in the second half. 
"We expected that Notre Dame is a stronger team than the other teams we've played," Zadar coach Dragan Sakota said through an interpreter. "We were better prepared for this match because we played last year and lost." 
Keith Robinson was the only other Irish player in double fig­ures, scoring 15 points with 10 rebounds. 
"I think he did some good things," said Phelps. "For the 24 minutes he played, he did as well as he could. He did a good job on the front line." 
The junior center has been bothered by a stress fracture in his right foot and has seen limited practice time. He un­derwent surgery in August and had a two-inch pin inserted into his foot. 
"I felt pretty good," said Robinson. "I thought I'd be kind of tired at the end of the game, but I felt pretty good at the end." 
Sophomore point guard Tim Singleton added nine points with a game-high 12 assists. El­lis also scored nine points to lead the freshmen. The other four freshmen combined to score eight points. 
"Our freshmen played like freshmen--totally green," said Phelps. "The freshmen didn't realize they (Zadar) were that good. Our other guys have to take charge, and that's some­thing that has to develop." 
Zadar played Notre Dame after an eight-hour bus ride from Des Moines, Iowa, where it had lost a Thursday night ex­hibition game to Drake. The club team won at DePaul81-77 on Saturday. Throughout its 
U.S. tour, it has been playing without 7-2 center Stoyko Vrankovic, who is being courted by the NBA's Boston Celtics. 
Notre Dame opens its regu­lar season Nov. 28 at home against St. Bonaventure. 
-
r page 12 The Observer Monday, November 21, 1988 
Irish set sights on NCAA's 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Sports Writer 
Leaving Kalamazoo, Mich., 
Saturday night, the Notre 
Dame women's volleyball 
team saw an usual sight on the 
horizon. 
No, it wasn't Elvis incarnate. It was an NCAA bid, which is finally in sight as the Irish finished the eleventh week of their season by winning the Western Michigan Invitational. 
The Irish, now 18-9, improved their chances of earning a spot in the NCAA tournament by defeating Miami <Ohio) Friday night in three games, 15-11, 15­8, 15-4, and winning the cham­pionship match over host West­ern Michigan in four games, 15-13, 4-15, 15-2 and 15-3. 
"I thought it was great," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "Right now the girls are playing under a lot of pressure because every match is like a must-win situation. But the girls are responding and playing well and I think they can only get better." 
Freshman setter Julie Brem­ner proved she could handle the tournament's pressure, as she was named the invitational's most valuable player after recording 72 assists, 12 digs, 12 total blocks and 11 kills during the team's two matches. 
Seniors Mary Kay Waller and Zanette Bennett also 
Fiesta 
continued from page 16 
Holtz passed the offer on to University Executive Vice­President Rev. William E. Beauchamp and Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal, who left the final say with the players. Fiesta Bowl commit­tee member Bill Shover was pleased with the response. 
"They started screaming," Shover said. "I started handing out these (Fiesta Bowl insig­nia) stickers, and they were 
earned all-tournament honors 
for the Irish. 
Despite a brief lapse of con­
centration in the second game, 
Notre Dame dropped Western 
Michigan for the second time 
this season Saturday night. 
The Broncos, who had fallen 
to the Irish earlier this season 
in three games 15-8, 15-6, 15-8, 
had advanced to the champion­
ship match by defeating Min­
nesota on Friday. 
Western Michigan could not maintain a consistent offensive attack Saturday though, hitting only .119 for the match, and could not handle the well­balanced Irish attack. 
"We struggled a bit in the second garrie," said Lambert, "but we came back strong in the other games and played very well. We didn't pass very well in the second game and when you don't pass, you can't hit." 
Waller played well on and off the net, as she tallied a team­high 13 kills six total blocks as well as seven digs. 
Senior Maureen Shea also played a well-rounded match, recording 12 kills for a team­high .400 hitting percentage and a match-high 12 digs. 
Bennett contributed to the cause too, finding the seams in the defense for 10 kills and res­ponding well defensively with eight digs. 
The Irish earned a spot in the 
just grabbing for them. I'd put three of them in one of those huge paws, and they'd just dis­appear. I had to give them about 30 before I could see them." 
The Mountaineers also received their bid Saturday. West Virginia, now 11-0 after beating Syracuse 31-9, is cur­rently ranked fourth in the na­tion. 
Although the Fiesta Bowl has been the leading contender for the Notre Dame game since mid-season, the bids could not officially be extended until Sat­urday. 
championship Friday by sti­
fling the Redskins offense and 
countering with some of their 
own. 
Waller and Bennett mur­
dered the Miami defense, com­
bining for 27 of the team's 43 
kills and both did so with pre­
cision. 
Waller helped her chances of earning All-American status this year by recording a .500 hitting percentage while Ben-· nett hit .435 for the match. 
Defensively, Waller also gave the Redskins fits, as she registered 13 total blocks for the Irish and repeatedly greeted them with an in­penetrable wall at the net. 
The weekend's victory brings the Irish a step closer to an NCAA bid as the team ap­proaches the final week of reg­ular season play. 
The Irish came into the week ranked 16th--the team's highest ranking ever--and must now prepare to face Texas, who is currently ranked 5th in the na­tion with a 24-5 record, and 13th-ranked San Diego State who is 21-10, in next weekend's Whataburger Invitational. 
"We just keep playing better and better," said Lambert. "There's no ceiling to how well we can play. We know what we we're supposed to do and now it's just a matter of going out and we can do it." 

The Observer I Paul Compton Notre Dame setter Julie Bremner was named Most Valuable Player at the Western Michigan Invitational over the weekend, leading the Irish to the championship, Molly Mahoney details the action at left. 

Knights of the Castle 
Men's HairstylinP 
student $8.50 complete 
style 
MINUtES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
212-0312 217·l691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
Ironwood & St. Road (behind Subway 


~------------------------------------------~--------~--~----------------~ 
Monday, November 21, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Nittany Lions know Irish, Mountaineers very well 
But having lost to both, they won't pick a favorite 

t················································~ 
+ FRESHMAN•  FRESHMAN CHICAGO TRIP  FRESHMEN:•  
:  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1988  :  
:  9:00A.M. to 10:00 P.M.  :  
:  MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY, ART INSTITUTE,  :  
:  WATER TOWER PLACE, LOOP, SEARS TOWER  :  
+  BREAKFAST, LUNCH, DINNER IN A  RESTAURANT  +  

+ TICKETS MAY BE PURCHASED AT THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES OFFICE + 
+ FRESHMEN $15.00 ALL INCLUDED FRESHMEN+ 
'················································~ 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
With the bowl bid official and the Notre Dame-West Virginia matchup set, it takes an expert to analyze the teams on their performances and predict how they'll play in the Fiesta Bowl. 
The Nittany Lions, who lost to the Irish Saturday 21-3, also met a similar fate at the hands of the Mountaineers on Oct. 29, 51-30. If anyone is an expert on the Irish and the Mountaineers, Penn State head coach Joe Paterno and his players fit the bill. 
"Notre Dame is a fine foot­ball team," Paterno said Sat­urday after his team's loss. "It's hard to beat a team with that kind of enthusiasm. I wish Notre Dame the best. 
"Notre Dame plays hard, they play alert. The are aggres­sive defensively and skilled of­fensively. They will be tough to beat." 
Paterno gave the credit to the Notre Dame players, not the Notre Dame mystique. 
"They're well-coached, they're organized, they play with a lot of enthusiasm," Paterno said. "It adds color to college football, but it's not a mystique. I didn't see any ghosts making any tackles out there." 
Paterno and most of his players did not want to com­pare the Irish and West Vir­ginia directly. Nittany Lion tailback Gary Brown did have something to say. 
"I give West Virginia the edge on offense," Brown said, "but not by much. I thought we did a better job on defense today, but Notre Dame still got the big plays and scored what they needed. No matter how people try to match them up, though, it's going to be a great game." 
"I will not do that," Paterno ,.... said when asked to compare the Fiesta Bowl opponents. "I don't think that's fair to either team. I think they're both fine lc football teams that have everything--good offense and solid defense, the whole bit. I think it's nice that they're going to play each other." 
"They're both outstanding," said Penn State heroback 
c';% 
Eddie Johnson. "Notre Dame is The Observer 1 Jim Brake tough, hard-nosed and strong. Irish tailback Tony Brooks (40) and the rest of the Mountaineers earlier this season, has words West Virginia is talented; the Irish will battle West Virginia Jan. 2 in the of praise for both of the Fiesta Bowl foes. See 
they've got guys who can do a Fiesta Bowl. The Penn State team, which lost to story at right. 
lot.'' 
All the Nittany Lions were "You won't see many impressed by the Irish defense, defenses as tough as ND and giving them the edge over West West Virginia," said Lion quar­Virginia. terback Lance Lonergan. 
"All the guys are good on D," "Notre Dame is different. They Brown said. "When they come never quit, they just keep com­together, they're great. They ing at you, no matter what. The put together such a great de­players are good physically fensive unit--that's tougher and mentally. There's no ques­than anybody's. They all do tion how tough they were on us. everything so well." Not only that, but they were tal­
ler than I thought." 
Lonergan had several passes broken up and two intercepted by the taller Irish defensive players. 
"The thing about Notre Dame," Lonergan continued, "is that they know how to stop you. We felt good out there today. We thought all we had to do was make one big play and it would put us back in it. 
"But the thing is, Notre Dame doesn't let you back in it. They don't let you get the big plays. We got some shots at West Virginia, but if a team keeps you down like that, they've always got an advan­tage." 
"I see a difference in Notre Dame this year," Johnson said. 
"I've played them for three years. They've always been scrapping, always fighting, they don't give up; it's made them a tough team. This year, they are more confident. That's the difference. They got some big wins early. That can give you confidence, and that can win for you when it gets tough later." 
Tix 
continued from page 16 
"All student tickets will be dis­tributed on a will-call basis. I can't emphasize enough that someone cannot pick up your tickets for you in Phoenix. Stu­dents must bring their own ID and pick up their ticket in per­son." 
The Fiesta Bowl has allotted 10,300 tickets for the game to Notre Dame, but Athletic Directer Dick Rosenthal has requested an increase to 12,000. 
"Students are our top priority in selling these tick­ets," asserted Cunningam. "Faculty and staff are next. Every member of the faculty and staff which bought season tickets will receieve an appli­cation for two tickets. Our next priorityalumni." are contributing 
,' i l ; •• ~ ~· . r J .• : J' r ! ... " ~ • ( • ' ,_ I • ;· I ~ I • •' ~· .. ' • ~ • Jl • '
i • 
~--~----~-------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer Monday, November 21, 1988 
IRISH EXTRA 


Site: Los Angeles Coliseum Series: Notre Dame leads 32-23-4 Rankings: Notre Dame 1st, USC 2nd
NOTRE DAME-SOUTHERN CAL FOOTBALL EDITION 
Time: Nov. 26, 3:30 p.m. 
•
Irish, USC meet 1n 60th playing of 'The Game' Top ranking at stake in battle of unbeatens 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Early Americans traveled west and expanded the nation. 
Over Thanksgiving break, Notre Dame is heading west in an attempt to expand its claim as the nation's top college foot­ball team against arch-rival Southern California. And though the top-ranked Irish will have an easier time getting to Los Angeles than did the fron­tiersmen, Saturday afternoon's battle in the Coliseum is ex­pected to be an historic one. 
They call it "The Game," and this year it is. 
"They're going to be ready for Notre Dame," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz of the second-ranked Trojans after Notre Dame's 21-3 drubbing of Penn State on Saturday. 
USC beat UCLA 31-22 to win the Pac-10 title and secure a spot in the Rose Bowl against Michigan on Jan. 2. Notre Dame will face West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl. 
But Saturday's 60th meeting between the Irish and Trojans will decide which of the two teams will control its own fate on bowl day. 
"We're looking forward to playing USC and proving we are the best team in the country," said Notre Dame tailback Mark Green, a native of Riverside, Calif. "Being from Southern California makes this a big deal for me, but we need to win this game for more obvious reasons. It's just great to be in a position where we control our own des­tiny." 
But to control their own des­tiny, the Irish are going to have to control Reisman Trophy hopeful Rodney Peete. The senior quarterback holds numerous game, season and career records at Southern Cal and is dangerous both running and passing the football. 
"He's everything you dread playing against as a defensive player," said Notre Dame in­side linebacker Wes Pritchett. "He's very similar to (Pittsburgh quarterback) Dar­nell Dickerson because he can throw the ball or he can kill you on the ground. 
"It's going to be a great chal­lenge on defense to be able to contain him," Pritchett contin­ued. "He can do a lot of things when he breaks containment." 
Peete completes 63 percent of his passes and averages 240 yards per game through the air. He has thrown for 18 touch­downs and been intercepted only eight times. 
USC's rushing game is similar to Notre Dame's in that a number of backs share the load. Sophomore tailbacks Scott Lockwood and Ricky Er­vins, junior tailback Aaron Emanuel (113 yards and two touchdowns against UCLA) and junior fullback Leroy Holt each have rushed for more than 
Trojans top Bruins to seal Rose Bowl berth 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif.--Rodney Peete, who got measles earlier in the week, passed for 189 yards and one touchdown, leading second-ranked South­ern Cal to a 31-22 victory Sat­urday over No. 6 UCLA, giving the Trojans a berth in the Rose Bowl. 
Peete also scored a touch­down and Aaron Emanuel scored twice as the Pacific-10 
Larry Smith (Coach) 
USC's head coach has guided the Trojans to the Rose Bowl in each of his first two years at the helm. Smith was named Pac-1 0 Coach of the Year for his efforts in 1987. 
Conference champion Trojans, 8-0 in league play and 10-0 over­all, qualified to face Big Ten champion Michigan in the Rose Bowl on Jan. 2. 
But first, Southern Cal plays host to top-ranked Notre Dame next Saturday in a game which could ultimately decide the na­tional championship. 
The sixth-ranked Bruins, who completed their regular season with a 9-2 record and went 6-2 in the Pac-10, meet 
300 yards for the nation's 
seventh-ranked team in total 
offense heading into the victory 
over UCLA. 
Split end and All-America candidate Erik Mfholter and flanker John Jackson are Peete's favorite receivers, ac­counting for more than half of the Trojan receptions. 
The USC defense has been as stingy as any in the nation this year. It held both ASU and Oklahoma to single digits on the scoreboard and, not includ­ing the UCLA game, was ranked in the top 10 nationally in rushing (No. 1), scoring (No. 
5) and total defense (No. 5). 
Inside linebacker Scott Ross is the leading tackler on the team, while safety and Jim Thorpe Award candidate Mark Carrier is second. 
USC's 14-game regular­season winning streak is tops in the nation, but the Irish have come out on top the last five times the teams have met. 
Notre Dame leads the series 32-23-4. 
EXTRA POINTS: The entire Notre Dame team is scheduled for vaccinations against measles and influenza today. 
California health officials say 30 cases of measles, includ­ing that of Peete, have been re­ported on the USC campus. 
"The good news is that coaches over 40 don't need them," Holtz said. "That's why I approved the shots. I hate a needle." 

lOth-ranked Arkansas in the Cotton Bowl on Jan. 2. 
.. 
Peete, a senior considered to be one of the top contenders for the Reisman Trophy, played the entire game at quarterback 

·.

for the Trojans despite his 
J
questionable status entering 
The Observer 1 File Photo
the game. 
USC quarterback Rodney Peete has led the Trojans to the Rose Bowl and now has his sights set on Notre Dame and the No. 1He completed 16-of-28 passes ranking. The senior could become Southern Cal's fifth Heismanwithout being intercepted and 
Trophy winner. 
was sacked only twice. 
TROJANS TO WATCH 

Erik Affholter (SE) Mark Carrier (S) 
The senior was not well­The Jim Thorpe Award finalist known until his dramatic, jug­and All-America candidate has gling reception won last year's established himself as one of 
USC-UCLA game 17-13. This the top defensive backs in col­year he leads the Trojans in lege football and ranks second receptions and is an All-America on the team in tackles. 
candidate. 

John Jackson (FL) 
The fleet-footed junior is a constant big-play threat and ranks second on the team in receptions. He started only three games last year but led the team with 7 TO catches. 

Rodney Peete (QB) 
Peete is one of the favorites in the Heisman race and could become the fifth Trojan to win it. The electrifying senior is known for his strong arm and his scrambling ability. 
r-----------------------­
Monday, November 21, 1988 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 
11 :30 a.m. Economics Workshop with Margarita Rose, graduate student in Economics, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4:00p.m. Kellogg Instituite and CSC Lecture "The 1988 Plebis­cite: Chile's Struggles to Retrieve Democracy," by Rev. Scul­ly, University of California, Berkeley, Center for Social Con­cerns. 
7:00p.m. SMC Student Activities Lecture "John F. Kennedy's Assassiniation," by Jack Gordon, Carroll Auditorium. 
7:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "She Wore A Yellow Ribbon," directed by John Ford, Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Filmm "Gilda," directed by Charles Vidor, Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Gyro BBQ Chicken Sweet & Sour Pork Fettucini Alfredo 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Lemon Chicken Chimichanga Beef Patty Deli Bar 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

50 Groundwork 51 Sound-speed ratio number 52 Profound 
reverence 53 Baloney 56-the Terrible 57 Wrath 58 A deadly sin 59 Tear violently 60 Bolivian export 61 Sailboat's 
propellants 62lnquires 
DOWN 
1 Act like a thespian 2 Dungaree cloth 3 Rumor source 4 Far Eastern money 5 Seashell 6 Yearned 1 Masticate 8 Common 
25 Ship moorings 34 Clock setting in 46 Tree variety pronoun 
N.Y.C.
26 Susan Jaffe's 47 Gem surface 9 Flub skirt 36 Salieri opera 
48 Posh 10 Cancel 28 Mix thoroughly 37lmpudent 
49 Takes care of11 Tibetan monks 
12 Treat tenderly 18Tale 19 Very dry, as 
champagne 21 Where to get a bob 24 Latvian capital 
ACROSS 1 Nervous 5 Hidy-hole treasure 10 Priestly vestment 13 Like a pittance 14 Earth tone 15 Barnyard noise 16 Genesis figure 17 July 4 noisemaker 20 Bellhop's expectation 21 Become awry 22 Body of troops 23 L. Frank Baum's -City 
25 Walks proudly 21 Like a villain 28 Not sharp 29 Juan's buddy 
31 Move capriciously 
32 Shakespearean exclamation 
35 Certain Latin lands 
39 Chopper 40 "Sixteen-" 
41 Noted lexicographer 
42 Large antelope 44 Muni or Newman 
45 Be playful 47 Tops in celerity 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

29 Bedouin 38 Clumsy boor 50 Angler's need garment 
42 Pernicious 
51 Cupboard items 30 Baeror 
43 Be vanquished
Beerbohm 54 Droop44 Indianapolis
31 Facade 
cagers 55 Babylonian sky god
32 Genesis raiment 45 Mediterranean 33 Summer treat isle 56 General Eaker 
The Far Side Gary Larson
Berke Breathed 


Buzz McFiatop Michael F. Muldoon 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 




--Sports
Monday, November 21, 1988 page 16 
ND gets revenge, victory and a Fiesta Bowl bid 
lnterhall teams battle for supremacy in the muck 
Seniors get first career win over Nittany Lions 21-3 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Sports l<~ditor 
Revenge might be sweet, but nobody said it had to be fair. 
Saturday it wasn't, as top­ranked and Fiesta Bowl bound Notre Dame took out the frustration of three straight losses to strong Penn State teams on a rare weak one. The Irish totaled 502 yards and powered to a 21-3 victory at Notre Dame Stadium in their last home game of the year. 
The win was the first over Penn State for Notre Dame's seniors and sent Nittany Lions coach Joe Paterno home with his first losing season (5-6) in 23 years at the helm. 
Notre Dame brings its 10-0 record and No.1 ranking to the Los Angeles Colusium on Sat­urday for The Game--a battle with second-ranked USC 00-0) that will determine the nation's top spot going into the bowl games. The Trojans clinched a Rose Bowl berth by stopping UCLA 31-22. 
"I just feel great for the seniors and the things we've done," said Irish senior tail­back Mark Green, who scored on a 22-yard run in the second quarter. "It's great to go out with a bang and finally beat Penn State. We've never beaten them before." 
The Irish not only beat the Nittany Lions--they nearly blanked them. Penn State scored its only points on Eric Etze's 52-yard field goal on the last play of the first half. The attempt was made possible only after Notre Dame was hit with a 15-yard facemask penalty on the previous seven­yard run by Penn State's Leroy Thompson. 
Inside Sports 
Volleyball wins Invitational ........... page 12 Basketball beats Zadar ................. page 11 Lake Forest sweeps NO hockey............... page 8 
Lewis beats Blitz f to take title 
By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 
"It was a Cinderella story," said Lewis coach Steve Treppicione after his team defeated Breen-Phillips 8-6 for the wo­men's Interhall Football crown in a cold and muddy Notre Dame Stadium yester­day. 
The Lewis victory was preserved after a 25-yard Breen-Phillips field goal at­tempt fell short with 2:20 remaining. 
"We're still stunned," said Lewis cap­tain Christine Wall meyer after her team dove into a puddle of mud in ecstatic celebration. "We came from out of nowhere and won it all." 
Breen-Phillips drove 69 yards and con­sumed 16 minutes of the clock before op­ting to kick the field goal on fourth and five from the nine yard line. 
"It was a coach's decision," said B-P captain Karen Marsh. "She's (Amy 
see LEWIS, page 9 
In fact, Penn State moved the ball more on Notre Dame penalties (eight for 94 yards) than on pass completions (5-of­24 for 74 yards). The Irish defense broke up 10 Lion pass­ing attempts and Jeff Aim and Steve Roddy each snared an in­terception. 
Penn State did not complete a single pass in the second or third quarters. 
"We just didn't have enough offensively," said Paterno, whose team managed 105 yards on 31 rushing attempts and held the ball for only 21 minutes. "Notre Dame played hard, they played alert, and played very aggressive defensively. They've got a good, tough sec­ondary." 
The Irish offense set the tempo for its control of the line of scrimmage in its first series of the game. Notre Dame marched 87 yards on 12 plays and took a 7-0 lead when Rice rolled out to the left, pump­faked to a wide-open Rod West in the end zone to get a Penn State defender off his feet and scored from two yards out. 
The Irish took a 14-0 lead in the second quarter when Green broke through a hole at the line of scrimmage, headed for the right sideline and somehow managed to stay inbounds on his 22-yard score. Freshman split end Raghib Ismail threw a clinching downfield block on the play. 
"I looked up and saw three of their guys go down," Green said. "I saw three of our block­ers on three of their blockers, and it was kind of like the domino effect." 
Rice led all rushers with 84 
see IRISH, page 11 
·· ~· 
/Jim Brake Co-capitan Mark Green and his senior classmates got their first and final taste of success against Penn State with a 21-3 win over the Nlttany Lions on Saturday. Marty Strasen details the game at 
left. 
Students top priority for tix 
By BRIAN O'GARA tickets for Notre Dame fresh­Sports Writer men and all Saint Mary's stu­dents will be sold on Friday, 
Notre Dame students will be December 2. able to get a ticket to attend "Notre Dame students are the 1989 Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, our number-one priority, with­Ariz. out question,'' said Notre 
Fiesta Bowl tickets will go on Dame ticket manager Bubba sale to Notre Dame seniors Cunningham. "Every student beginning on Tuesday, Novem­who wants tickets will be able ber 29, at Gate 10 of the Joyce to get one will be able to, as­ACC beginning at 1:30 PM. suming there will be 2,000 to 
Notre Dame juniors will be 4,000 students who want to able to purchase tickets on make the trip to Phoenix." Wednesday, November 30; While students may pur­Notre Dame sophomores, chase the $35 tickets for them­graduate students and law stu­selves, the process will elimi­dents may purchase tickets on nate the purchasing of tickets Thursday, December 1; and for non-student use. 
The Observer I Rob Regovich Lewis quarterback Ellen Mouch works her away around a Breen-Phllllps defender In Sunday's women's lnterhall finals. Lewis won the championship 8-6 on the sloppy turf at Notre Dame Stadium. Later, Dillon won the men's title, 3-0 In overtime over Stanford. 
Defense keys 3-0 Dillon victory 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
On a field that was nothing short of unplayable, Dillon kicker Kohl Schneider nailed a 27-yard field goal in overtime to bring the Big Red a 3-0 vic­tory, its second consecutive Inter hall championship, over Stanford. 
Both teams, playing in a rematch of last year's final, were forced to change game plans due to the horrid field con­ditions in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We couldn't run during regulation, so we tried to pass in overtime," said Stan­ford's Steve ,Wightkin. 
After winning the coin toss at the end of regulation, Dillon opted to start on defense, putting the pressure on the Stud offense. Beginning on the ten-yard line, each team had four downs to attempt to score. On Stanford's third attempt at the ten, Dillon intercepted, setting up 
see DILLON, page 9 
One student will be able to bring four IDs and $35 per ticket to the JACC on the spe­cified day and fill out ticket ap­plications for four students. 
At the time of the purchase, however, the students will not be able to pick up the tickets. Students can only pick up their tickets in Phoenix at either the Notre Dame hotel or Sun Devil Stadium and must present their ID in person to recieve their ticket. 
"This is how the ticket distri­bution went for the Sugar Bowl in 1981," said Cunningham. 
see TIX, page 13 
Irish will face 
W. Virginia in Fiesta Bowl 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Now it's official. 
Notre Dame will play West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ariz., on Jan. 2. 
Surprise. 
"This is really a thrill for us," said Phil Motta, president of the Fiesta Bowl team selec­tion committee. "The history of the Fiesta Bowl has probal>ly reached its peak--to have Notre Dame, and to have them unde­feated and ranked No. 1." 
The matchup will occur regardless of the outcome of the Notre Dame-USC game Saturday in Los Angeles. In fact, the Penn State outcome did not matter. The committee wanted the Irish that much. 
The bid was extended to Irish head coach Lou Holtz before Saturday's victory over the Nittany Lions. The Irish got $3 million for accepting the bid, the largest ever offered by the bowl. 
see FIESTA, page 12 




